

The Bulletin
j
gj
gh
jghj
PRESIDENT
LYNDON
JOHNSON
PHOTO: KARSH OF OTTOWA.
Australia 2/~, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


■
-
wm
**£*»»■• »..4,- i;m»
“Mm
V' v |8
«C
> v"
*fi
s
SsWs %
Sh,
SS
4te--
& ?
*jni
tim.'mm
'al*c
:'V. Vafc
# i’'V S
■
V*.
♦
-
segH®® B #* '
-,- or-
.m:^m
elB
~ ■ ■
" . ,
■
l-'--
ICO IN GIFT CARTON, 17'S TWENTIES, 3’6


National Notebook
Decoration
T'he P and O’s new Sydney home in
JL Hunter Street opens for business
this week, although the official opening
isn’t until next month. The building must
have earned the company the title of
the sculptor’s friend. In the booking
hall is an immense tiled mural by Doug-
las Annand fronted by zinc mermaids,
or mermen, to represent the countries
the company’s ships visit.
Annand has also done a
glass ornamental screen
and a hanging sculptural
piece showing the lion,
kangaroo, elephant and
dragon. Tom Bass has
designed a wall fountain,
not yet playing, and a pierced wall
panel for the Castlereagh Street entrance.
Lenore Bass has designed a clock, in-
spired by a sea-anemone, which will be
cantilevered from the Hunter Street
facade.
Meanwhile, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment offices across the street still hold
the award for the ugliest building in
Sydney. It is hard to envisage anything
which could take the prize away from
them. The harshness is relieved only by
the inhabitants, who may, it is true, be
considered by their superiors as an adorn-
ment to the service.
The piece of sculpture to go in the
entrance, and which was the subject of a
limited-entry contest, has never been
put there. Sydney sculptors Leonard Hes-
sing and Michael Nicholson, who en-
tered the contest and who, they claim,
were advised by letter from the Depart-
ment of Works that their design had
been accepted, were later told it would
not be used. Local artists are now trying
to raise <£4500 to take legal action in
the matter.
It is felt that a case might prove, once
and for all, that a commission for an
artist to do a work is exactly as binding,
morally and legally, as a contract to
supply any other commodity. It might
also make it clear that while we have to
accept Ministers or Government ser-
vants as the guardians of our morals, in
the form of censorship, we need not ac-
cept them as arbiters of our taste.
The Australian Mentality
TEVerybody knows that South African
migrants to Australia are split into
two groups anti-apartheid and pro-
apartheid. No prize will be given to
readers who can guess what group Mr
Harold Brown, who was given a three-
column spread for a feature article on
the Hobart “Mercury’s” leader page, be-
longs to.
Mr Brown confided that he “just
couldn’t figure the Australian mentality”
which he has known for 2i years since
he came here. He asked whether the
critical Rev. Mr Alan Walker had “ever
ridden in a cab used by Africans” be-
cause “he would leave it smelling like a
mountain goat; the effluvium is over-
powering.” In case people might gain
the impression that the use
of the word effluvium
meant he was mealy-
mouthed, Mr Brown asked
whether Mr Walker liked
“the skunk-like smell of
the Africans.”
Australians with illu-
sions were told by Mr Brown that none
of the so-called free nations could “come
anywhere near us in wealth and achieve-
ment for the ordinary working man.”
Mr Brown concluded: “I am just as
anxious as anyone to see fair play, racial
tolerance and better education for the
backward races. But I will never sanc-
tion mixed marriages. Even the zebra
chooses a zebra for his bedmate. He
doesn’t take kindly to donkeys.”
Does that mean Mr Brown is a zebra
or a donkey?
Pulling their head in
have been told by a dedicated
group of West Australians that many
people in other lands think of us first
not as the land of the kangaroo or koala
but as the land of the short-necked
tortoise. This is a significant change of
image.
To the layman the short-necked tor-
toise is unique only in that he can pull
his head in sideways. To the naturalist he
has many claims to fame. He exists, so
far as is known, only in one place in the
world —a series of swamps in vineyard
country a few miles north of Perth.
As WA Museum director Dr W. D. L.
Ride puts it: “He lives under extremely
unusual conditions. He eats during the
winter when it floods, and presumably
A Saw
T>eyond the lake I see the sea
A strip of golden sand between;
Precisely now this seems to be
The nicest scene I’ve ever seen.
It’s true, of course, it isn’t Venice,
And here a saw won’t go amiss:
For just as football isn’t tennis
So likewise Venice isn’t this.
PAT FLOWER
Page
THE BEATLES . , ~ . . 17
A Goonish sort of wit
9
AROUND MELBOURNE ... 28
BUSINESS AND FINANCE
(32 pages) 52
CROSSWORD 82
EIGHTY YEARS AGO 8
FORUM 33
LETTERS 37
MAN ON THE LAND 79
OUT AND ABOUT 17
OVERSEAS 30
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
RED PAGE:
CHRISTMAS BOOKS . . 47
REVIEWS 39
SCIENCE AND MEDICINE . 26
TANNER 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
•
After the Elections 6
The Life and Times of Lyndon B.
Johnson 13
Beatling Along 17
Norma Redpath: Sculptor Without
a Tag 19
Festival at Innisfail 23
What Does Fluoride Do? .. 26
A Long Word for Two Jam Tins 28
The Dream of Negro Equality .. 30
Sihanouk’s Expensive Gesture .. 32
Political Assassinations .. .. 33
Investing in Expansion 52
Spending Shapes for a Spree .. 55
Brick Industry’s Bright Future .. 61
Tractor Tests Threatened .. .. 79
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone 27 5971.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone 2 0666 Ext. 380.
Vol. 85
No. 4373


he aestivates ... the summer equivalent
of winter’s hibernation.” Two years ago
bushfires through the short-necked tor-
toise’s domain appeared to have burnt
him into extinction. But somehow he
survived. “If only to find out how he
managed to pull through, he is important
biologically,” Dr Ride says. “But apart
from this, he and creatures like the noisy
scrub bird are helping buck up the Aus-
tralian image which has been extremely
poor overseas in this regard.”
In the bucking-up process, the State
has granted £-1000 and the public here
and overseas have donated several
hundred more to set the tortoise up in
a 535-acre reserve. There he will be
studied closely.
Meanwhile 13 short-necked tortoises
have recently been set up in city quarters
just in case this summer’s fires succeed
in barbecueing the rest. But this is
hardly likely. The creatures have retain-
ed a unique development, without
changes, for about 180,000,000 years.
.
\ lCtonana
A man convinced that Australia should
start treating her Victorian archi-
tecture with more respect is Charles
Hewitt, whose exhibition of Sydney pen
drawings, “Studies in Victoriana”, opens
this week at the Barry Stern Gallery,
Sydney. Hewitt is a 22-year-old former
law student from Melbourne. Using
colored ink on tinted papers he does
freehand drawings of terrace houses and
mansion houses that reproduce every
hairline detail of their mouldings and
every twist of the cast iron. He thinks
he is the only Australian outside journal-
ism now making a profession of pen
and ink work alone.
Hewitt has an affection for Victorian
buildings and the generation that put
them up. “After the gold discoveries
this was the first time that wealth became
a general thing,” he told us last week.
“it was the rise of a genuine middle
class. There were suddenly all these
people trying to express their new
wealth, going through catalogues of pre-
cas t classical ornaments to apply to
their houses. It all looks the same to
us , but in their eyes they were being
individual.” In this sense Hewitt finds
Victorian buildings humorous and even
touching in their repetitive opulence; but
what interests him is their real historical
importance, and the fact that with their
verandahs and balconies they are dif-
ferent from the Victorian architecture of
other countries, and good to live in, too.
He thinks the National Trust, pre-
occupied up till now with the Georgian
period, should move more quickly to
classify and protect the best Victorian
buildings before they are all torn down
by the developers,
.
(netting things shipshape
'll7’ith a record 49 boats entered for
** this year’s Sydney-Hobart yacht race,
we called in on Sydney Cruising Yacht
Club secretary Merv Davey, himself a
one-time Hobart winner. Davey, visibly
wracked and harassed, took us to the
club’s main lounge.
“Few people realise what a job it is
preparing for this race,” Davey told us,
“I haven’t been home before midnight
for days. There are programmes, instruc-
tions, measuring and inspecting. Why,
just measuring a sail and working out
the formula for its application to the
yacht’s racing takes several hours.”
This year the radio relay vessel will be
the South Australian luxury yacht Ta-
huna which has everything that opens and
shuts. As secretary of the CYC Davey
will be sailing in Tahuna and covering the
vast fleet. He frowned, “But it won t be
any pleasure cruise. I’ll have to be up at
crack of dawn for the first radio schedule
and then I have to collate the various
positions and make them ready for broad-
casting. There 11 be plenty of work and
as well as this they ve rostered me for
galley duty!”
Tanner
"I see no need for another
-« * n
summit conference on Malaysia.
We're already on fop."


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Resounding Victory
For the Government
Flast week’s issue of THE
BULLETIN, the Prime Mini-
ster, Sir Robert Menzies, told a
special correspondent that he
thought that the Australian elector-
ate had become increasingly
sophisticated in response to the
challenges posed by increasingly
complex issues facing the country
—especially those of foreign policy
and defence. In the event the
election results proved just that.
While the unexpectedly large major-
ity with which the Government was
returned must be a matter of great
jubilation for Sir Robert (as well as
a staggering vote of confidence in
him personally after fourteen years
of leading the Government) it is a
great deal more than that. It is a
reflection of a rapid growth towards
political maturity on the part of the
Australian voter. The decision by
the majority of voters —which in-
cluded a high proportion of young
people —to return the Government
undoubtedly reflected great sound-
ness of judgment. Where did
Labor go wrong? The short
answer is in practically everything.
It is not a single, united party in
the first place and it seems unlikely
that in these times it can ever suc-
cessfully campaign until it sets its
own house in order. On foreign
policy and defence the Labor Party
was specious and unsatisfactory and
these were the issues on which the
Prime Minister made political his-
tory by staking his political judg-
ment.
TTOW could Mr Calwell have ex-
pected the people of this
country to have swallowed the ab-
surdities of a nuclear-free zone
which would leave this country
virtually defenceless to its potential
enemies? How could he have ex-
pected Australians to believe that
it was desirable that in the split-
second timing of a nuclear crisis
that an American President would
seek permission from an Australian
Prime Minister to use the American-
built North West Cape radio
signals base? How could he have
expected a large number of
politically sophisticated voters to
believe in his sincerity when he
called for a binding treaty with
Malaysia when he knew that
country could not sign such a
treaty? On domestic issues Mr
Calwell made the mistake of prom-
ising everybody everything. Despite
the originality of many ideas in his
initial policy speech Mr Calwell fell
victim to the fatal temptation of pil-
ing promise upon promise without
any regard to a satisfactory ex-
planation of who would pay for
what. While bitter memories of
the 1960 credit squeeze could have
been expected to harm the Govern-
ment they may have served to
scare the electorate off Mr Calwell’s
inflationary promises which, if they
had been put into effect, might
have led under a Labor Govern-
ment to a very real recession later
on.
Mr Calwell’s slightly desperate
and seemingly endless capacity for
producing more and more promises
out of the hat, his reckless disregard
for the hard facts of economic
financing, his patent inability to
reconcile publicly or privately the
opposed demands of the two wings
of the Labor Party, the DLP vote,
his isolationist confusion about the
true nature of the world we live in
and the demands it imposes on us
in the interests of our national
defence and security combined to
hit him and his party a great deal
harder than anyone would have be-
lieved was possible before Satur-
day’s voting. He also had his share
of bad luck. President Kennedy’s
tragic death almost certainly con-
firmed the swing against him. Sense-
less acts of political violence invari-
ably evoke horror and repugnance
on the part of most people (the
more so when perpetrated against a
world figure of almost magical
appeal) causing them to support the
Government in power.
"OUT even this is not enough to ex-
** plain the defeat suffered by
Labor on Saturday. Nor is the clear
drift of DLP votes to the Govern-
ment a sufficient explanation of
Labor’s shattering rout. The real
cause of Mr Calwell’s defeat lies in
a split Labor Party and in Mr Cal-
well himself. His defects are ac-
cumulative in effect. Although he
has grown in stature over the years
since the wilder days of Press
censorship and Sergeant Gamboa
and although he occupies a very
genuine place in Australian affec-
tions he still arouses mistrust and
misgivings. He is no longer a
young man and it must be presumed
that this may be the last Federal
election campaign he will under-
take for an office which he feels
has been too long denied him, an
office for which he longs and for
which, as his campaign showed,
he will say if not do almost any-
thing. His last-minute attempt to
smear the Prime Minister for not
going to President Kennedy’s funeral
did him no honor and made him
appear ridiculous. He is a man
who, for all his vitality, his ex-
perience and his capacity, lacks
political balance and common
sense. It is impossible not to
respect Mr Calwell just as it is
impossible not to like him. Un-
fortunately, it is impossible to
believe in him.


THIS AUSTRALIA
LOOKING BACK
Why Labor Lost
The Election
Sir Robert’s £5,000,000 surprise
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
ARTHUR CALWELL
Two time loser
The violent death of a world figure,
a “sleeper” issue, an uneasy feeling
that without an ensured, close-
knit alliance with the United States
Australia would face an unsure future,
distrust of Labor’s isolationist defence
policy and of Left-wing tinged machine
dominance over Labor’s Federal Parlia-
mentary wing and flaws in the public
images of the two Labor Parliamentary
Labor leaders —67 - years - old Arthur
Calwell and 47-years-old Gough Whit-
lam —helped defeat Labor in the elec-
tions.
Those factors in addition to near full
employment (for which Labor Minister
William McMahon must get a fair share
of the credit), prosperity reflected in the
record saving bank deposits and a
restored, expanding economy ensured
that Prime Minister Sir Robert Menzies
on Saturday night last went back into
Federal office for another three years
with a most comfortable majority re-
placing the hair shirt of one or two that
he has had in the House of Representa-
tives over the past two years.
Mathematically, Labor started off with
the advantage. There was no electoral
redistribution in the last Parliament,
though one was overdue. Labor strong-
holds in the inner city areas had been
eroding outwards. Calwell’s own seat of
Melbourne had become one of the small-
est electorates in Australia and the pat-
tern there was the same in other capitals.
There were seemingly only two places to
which these presumably good Labor
votes could go—into Labor seats where
this type of vote was needed and into
narrowly held Liberal seats.
Then Calwell made his policy speech.
It had defects, particularly on the
defence side, which the election cam-
paign was to make increasingly evident.
But it also had its imaginative and ap-
pealing side. It promised a revolution in
education, a break-through in scientific
research and training and a programme
of hectic development for the north of
whose vast emptiness so many Aus-
tralians are becoming more urgently
aware. I think that at that stage Calwell
and his followers, who in 1961 had
come within two seats of victory, had
a real chance of becoming the next
Government of Australia.
But once Menzies delivered his policy
speech, popular feeling seemed to start
moving Menzies’ way. As I see it the
movement back to him and his Govern-
ment came from a variety of things. He
opposed Labor’s promises with some
imaginative promises of his own, par-
ticularly on housing. He was also con-
vincing over financing. He put a cruel,
probing finger on the weaknesses in
Labor’s external policies —he pointed
out that the ALP Federal Conference
had agreed to the establishment of the
US radio communications base at
Exmouth Gulf by the narrow margin of
one vote, that Calwell waiting outside
the Hotel Kingston for the ALP Federal
Conference to make its decision
symbolised the subservience of Labor’s
Parliamentary wing to the ALP machine,
and that Labor’s defence approach was
basically isolationist conforming with the
Brisbane line concept that Australia
could be better defended from the Aus-
tralian mainland rather than in areas
remote from the continent.
A s well as these things, Menzies got in
what could well have been the king
hit of the election in the shape of a
“sleeper” issue his pledge to provide
£5,000,000 for the building of science
blocks at ALL schools. For a large
section of the Roman Catholic com-
munity this undoubtedly represented the
first major break-through on something
for which this section has been cam-
paigning for years State aid for de-
nominational schools. I don’t think it is
without significance that it was in NSW
(where the former Federal ALP Presi-
dent Mr. F. E. Chamberlain had pub-
licised the issue by marching on the
NSW Government armed with the
authority of the ALP Federal Executive
to prevent the NSW Labor State Govern-
ment doing exactly this) that Labor
suffered its worse setbacks. Even though
Chamberlain got rebuffed by NSW
Labor leaders he nevertheless provoked
a situation in which the State Govern-
ment had to water down the proposals
for aid to ALL schools in the form of
science blocks which had been endorsed
by the NSW ALP State Conference in
June. I do not profess to know Roman
Catholic psychology on this issue but
it would seem that Labor paid the price
for Chamberlain’s extraordinarily reck-
less handling of this issue.
From the time Menzies came out with
this pledge it was extremely doubtful
whether Calwell and Labor couid win,
however well they conducted the cam-
paign and despite the death of Arch-
bishop Mannix who supported the DLP
unreservedly in Victoria and the retreat
into political neutralism of Dr Mannix’s
successor in Melbourne, Dr J. D.
Simonds.
For me, Whitlam was the disappoint-
ment of the campaign and possibly fatal
to CaTwell’s chances. I only heard him
during this campaign on two occasions
but both were important. The first was
Calwell’s policy speech meeting in Mel-
bourne and the second was Calwell’s
Sydney Town Hall meeting.
On both occasions, Whitlam was brilli-
ant, almost wickedly so. Good looking,
poised, almost a matinee idol type, he
stood cool and debonair in front of the
microphone, scoring off his and Labor’s
opponents with brittle wit—but most of
t was as shallow as a drip tray.
Even before the tragedy of President
Kennedy’s death, my impression was
that Labor could not make it. 1 believe
that the President’s assassination had a
psychological impact on the Australian
public—an impact that probably helped
the Menzies Government to confirm by
an unexpected majority the win already
within its grasp.
Labor in the Parliamentary sense is
now back almost to where it started
from when Calwell took over the Leader-
ship from Dr Evatt. The defection of
NSW, traditionally Labor's citadel, was
the harshest cut of all.
But what should not be overlooked is
that it was in Western Australia, home
state of Joe Chamberlain who has domh
nated the Labor machine for so long,
and in Victoria, where Leftism is only
now showing signs of receding, that
Labor got its smallest percentage votes.
In NSW Labor lost only what it had
gained in comparatively recent times but
in Victoria and Western Australia it
seemed to be the basic Labor vote that
was eroding.


THE NAVY
Sword’s Point
for the Captain
The case of the five drowned midshipmen
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
CAPTAIN DOVERS
... guilty
I'Fhe career of William John Dovers,
-*• DSC, Captain, RAN, former com-
mander of the Royal Malayan Navy for
two years, holder of the Johan Mangko
Negara, a high Malayan decoration,
former commander of HMAS Sydney
and five other ships during his career,
and former Captain of the Royal Aus-
tralian Naval College, suffered its first
setback in 31 years last week when he
marched briskly into the court-martial
room at Naval Headquarters, Sydney, to
see the point of his sword turned towards
him on the table at the head of the court.
His record, read to the court-martial
at the close of evidence, spelt out a
highly successful progress which had
brought him to the rank of Captain at
the freakishly young age of 39. Not
only was the usual Commanding Officer’s
“To my entire satisfaction” the constant
theme of his service history but his record
was also sprinkled with “recommended
for promotion . . . accelerated promo-
tion ... a zealous officer.” The Flag
Officer Commanding for the Eastern
Australian Area, Rear-Admiral Gatacre,
went into the brass-railed witness box to
give glowing character evidence. “If he
has any faults, in 25 years I have never
learnt of them.”
But for all that, it was a court-martial
of five of his brother officers who found
him guilty of neglect, in that, while com-
manding officer of HMAS Sydney he had
failed to keep himself informed of the
progress of a whaler in which five mid-
shipmen were drowned off the Queens-
land coast last October, on a training
cruise from the Sydney.
Captain Dovers’ court-martial and that
of two other officers of the Sydney had
been ordered after a board of inquiry
had been held on Sydney itself, near
the scene of the tragedy.
The President of that inquiry, Captain
J. S. Melsey, who had recommended the
court-martial action, acted as Prosecutor
for all three courts-martial last week,
held in the high-vaulted ballroom of what
once was one of Potts Point’s elaborate
mansions of the last century. All the
pomp and ceremony of the court-martial
accompanied the hearings. The naval
officers wore their white dress uniforms
with constricting high collars and full
medals. The swords of the accused were
laid parallel along the edge of the table
until the final verdicts, when the hilt
turned towards the officer indicated an
acquittal, but the sword’s point a con-
viction. When Captain Dovers rose to
make his unsworn statement to the court
his guard, an officer of the same rank,
stood alongside him with a drawn sword.
Neither the Prosecutor nor the defence,
formally known as the “friend” of the
prisoner, has any legal training. But the
Judge Advocate is present to advise the
officers of the court-martial on points of
law. Even in the absence of formal legal
training the “friend” in all three courts-
martial, Captain Cooper, did things with
something of a legal flourish, quoting
extensively from classic legal texts, like
Salmond on Torts. But counsel did not
emulate their legal counterparts in ver-
bosity. Cross examination was brief and
addresses were measured in minutes. The
Prosecutor, Captain Melsey, used no rhe-
toric in his cases confining himself to
the most part to affirmation.
TT was the first time in 34 years that
an officer of such a rank had faced a
court-martial but two acquittals earlier
in the week of the other two officers
had eased the tension. So when the
officers, Press and public filed back into
the court room last Thursday evening
there was a stir of surprise at the verdict.
The five midshipmen had left HMAS
Sydney at anchor in the harbor of tiny
Cid Island, off Hayman Island, at about
ten past five on the morning of October
17. What emerged as a central conflict
at all three courts-martial was how soon
the whaler might have been expected
to complete its task of circumnavigating
nearby Hook Island, travelling about 34
miles.
Captain R. J. Scrivenor, of HMAS
Vampire, who was one of the board of
inquiry whose recommendations led to
the court-martial, gave evidence for the
prosecution. He said that under normal
sailing conditions the whaler should have
been expected to be in sight of the
Sydney again by about 2 p.m.
However, Captain Dovers, in his un-
sworn statement to the court martial, said
that, in earlier exercises by midshipmen
in whalers that week, none of the crews
had made good progress and that Thurs-
day was the most difficult of the three
days. He had formulated an opinion, with
the background of the previous few days
in mind, that the whaler was most un-
likely to be back until after 7 p.m. that
night.
Lt.-Commander James, officer-in-
charge of midshipmen training who had
been acquitted at an earlier court-martial
gave evidence that he had told Captain
Dovers during the morning that he
thought the boat should be back at Syd-
ney by about 8 p.m. Evidence was also
given that the Captain had been told of
a forecast for “fresh to strong south-east
winds, gusting at times and moderate
seas” at 10.35 a.m. At 3 p.m. that after-
noon he had gone on a fishing trip and
on return at about half past six he had
decided to send out a boat “to get some
idea of their progress.”
Two expert witnesses, an Acting-Cap-
tain and a Commander, gave evidence for
the defence in support of the later time
estimate. The Prosecutor, Captain Mel-
sey, invoked the principle of the com-
manding officer’s ultimate responsibility
for what was done on his ship and “by
inference, (for) everything not done that
should be done.”
However, on a second charge of ne-
glect for having failed to mount a search
before he went on his fishing trip, the
Captain was acquitted. The actual verdict
of guilty related to the first charge against
him, of failing to keep himself informed
of the progress of the whaler.
After the guilty verdict no plea was
made for mitigation but two further
character witnesses were called: the Flag
Officer Commanding, Australian Fleet,
Rear-Admiral A. W. R. McNicoll and
Rear-Admiral G. C. Oldham (retd.).
After another retirement the court’s Presi-
dent, Captain R. J. Robertson, of Can-
berra’s HMAS Hannan , announced a
sentence of a reprimand for Captain
Dovers.
On his record and the word of those
who gave character evidence for him
Captain Dovers must have been con-
sidered almost a certainty to reach flag
rank. Indeed he was to leave this week
for a course at the Imperial Staff Col-
lege.
But there is now one black mark on
the perfect record.
The Navy Board, as a matter of course,
examines all court-martial evidence and
has the right of its own volition to quash
any verdict or sentence. Captain Dovers
may approach the Navy Board to re-
quest such action. Failing that he could
appeal to the Appeals Court-Martial
Tribunal.
The courts-martial last week were di-
rected, and confined, to the evidence


touching the charges. But running
through the hearings was a thread of
stubborn defence by the naval officers
of the use of whalers for the training of
midshipmen.
In essence the defence of the use of
whalers amounted to the argument that
they assisted in the development of
initiative of midshipmen. Lt - Com-
mander James said “for maximum value
to be obtained in expedition training
... it was important that a power boat
should not be sent to look for the whaler
before the expected time of return.”
Captain Dovers in his statement said
he was convinced “that it was an essen-
tial element of their training that they
should be given opportunity under all
conditions to exercise their own judg-
ment and reach decisions without assist-
ance.” Captain Cooper, in one of his de-
fence addresses, said that it was highly
desirable not “to mother” midshipmen
taking part in whaler exercises. Certainly
after the court-martial decision officers
will have a puzzle on their hands in
deciding future procedure for such
exercises.
HEALTH
The Scientologists
A Board of Inquiry
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
J. W. GALBALLY
A private bill
HUhe Victorian Government moved
-®- quickly last week to appoint a
Board of Inquiry into the practice of
Scientology. The announcement came
before the Labor Leader in the Legisla-
tive Council, Mr J. W. Galbally, was
due to move a private member’s Bill to
prohibit the teaching or practice of
Scientology for monetary gain and to
ban the use of the sect's famous “E”
meter. Only a few hours before Mr Gal-
bally introduced his Bill, the Govern-
ment announced that the inquiry would
be conducted by Mr K. V. Anderson,
QC, with twelve terms of reference.
The inquiry will forestall Mr Galbally’s
attempt to get his legislation through,
but honors are with the Labor leader for
his initiative in turning the spotlight on to
the Scientology Centre, located just
across the way from Parliament House
in Spring St. In both the local and the
national Press, Scientology has been under
sporadic attack for years, but the ten-
dency has been to write it off as outland-
ish charlatanry. With their jargon of
clears, engrams, dub-ins, enmest, entheta,
straights, lock-scanning and a host of
other self-invented terms the Scientolo-
gists were always good for a laugh. Mr
Galbally’s speech, however, depicted
them in unmistakably sinister terms.
Moving a motion of censure on the
Government for its failure to suppress
Scientology, Mr Galbally spoke of its
practitioners as a “group of charlatans
who for monetary gain are exposing
children of tender age, youths and adults
to intimidation and bankruptcy.” He
claimed that the Government had failed
to act even in the face of warnings
from the Mental Hygiene Authority,
the Health Commission and the Secre-
tary of the Australian Medical Associ-
ation.
Throughout the Upper House debate,
the initiative was always with Mr Gal-
bally and his supporters. He quoted a
letter from Dr. Cunningham Dax, Chair-
man of the Mental Hygiene Authority,
to Mr Dillon, Under-Secretary of the
Chief Secretary's Department. The let-
ter quoted an advertisement placed by
the Scientologists in a Melbourne news-
paper which Dr Dax claimed was ex-
tremely dangerous. It could, Dr Dax said,
“result in shizophrenics failing to get
treatment, suicides resulting or people
with hysterical symptoms becoming ex-
tremely anxious.” He suggested a ban on
advertisements offering treatment for
nervous or mental disorders, similar to
the prohibition on advertisements for
cancer or poliomyelitis cures in Vic-
toria.
Mr Galbally also gave details of a soil
conservation officer, who at the age of
24 took up Scientology. He did various
courses, costing in all £4OO, to qualify
as an “E” meter operator (known in the
sect as an auditor). He left his job, be-
came estranged from his family, and took
a position as janitor in the Scientology
centre where he worked a 16-hour day
for less than the basic wage. He quoted,
too, the opinion of Dr Dickson, Secre-
tary of the AMA, that there were definite
cases where undesirable mental effects
had resulted from Scientology courses.
Mr Galbally also quoted from writings
of Scientology’s founder, Mr L. R. Hub-
bard, an American now living in some
splendor in England. According to
Mr Hubbard, Scientology can cure some
70% of human ailments. It can alleviate
burns from atomic explosions and is
the only specific cure for radiation. Mr
Galbally suggested that a questionnaire
used on potential recruits opened the way
to blackmail and quoted these questions:
Have you ever been court-martialled?
Have you ever had anything to do with
pornography? Have you ever raped any-
one or been raped? Have you ever been
THE LORD'S DAY
bulletin
80 Years Ago: December 8, 1883
T ord’s day! The Government makes
a profit by carrying hundreds of
people to Tivoli (Sydney) on the
Lord’s Day in the trams, and then the
proprietor of Tivoli is fined £5 for
allowing the Government’s passengers
to play at quoits. Lord’s Day! There
are a lot of holy frauds in NSW, and
this is one of them fining a work-
man for playing quoits, while Albert
Edward (hats off!), son of the De-
fender of the Faith, is giving lawn-
tennis parties on Sunday at the other
end of the world.
T>artholemew Binns, the new hang-
man ’ reminds us of
people we know in New South Wales,
when asked why he sought such a
billet, he replied that “he liked popu-
larity Just so: there are other men
so nicely on a level with the common
hangman that there is no infamy
j^ e y wou id not consent to participate
in, provided they thereby secured a
“distinguished position.” We know
lots of men who would sooner get
elected, even to be Aldermen, by
diffuse and studious lying, and break-
jng eYer y p] e dge and principle, than
ij, V e j n honest and self-respecting but
unconsidered retirement.


VAT 69
More than a Gift..
aTribute
MORE THAN A SCOTCH... A TRADITION
All over the world, this fine old Scotch Whisky is
given with pride, and received with pleasure
appreciation. So it has been for a hundred Christmases
past; long may it continue to express feelings of good-
will and good cheer throughout the festive season!
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY
QUEEN ELIZABETH II
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
WM. SANDERSON & SON LTD.
<r
©
■*>
it
w
#9
Special gift carton
NZL 21/10.4C


involved in abortion? Have you ever
practised homosexuality? Have you ever
practised or assisted intercourse between
women? Have you ever had intercourse
with a member of your family? Have you
ever plotted to destroy a member of
your family?
The Country Party Leader, Mr
Byrnes, was sympathetic and referred to
the Scientology organisation as “a fester-
ing organisation that is doing untold
damage.” So, too, was the Minister for
Health, Mr Mack, who referred to the
Scientologists as a bunch of charlatans.
However, his Government could not see
any way in which it could act. Mr Gal-
bally’s censure motion was defeated, but
the Government promised him help of a
parliamentary draftsman to draw up a
bill which he foreshadowed.
The bill was on similar lines to legis-
lation banning cancer quacks. It would
prohibit the “practice and teaching of
Scientology for fee or reward” and would
also ban the use of “any device or ap-
paratus” for recording or measuring per-
sonality reaction, impulses or charac-
teristics.”
However, before Mr Galbally introduced
it to the Upper House, the Premier, Mr
Bolte, had announced the Board of In-
quiry. Its terms of reference are wide and
include the aims, objects and purposes
of Scientology and the extent to which
they are capable of achievement: The
methods, processes, practices, techniques,
principles and treatment involved: Fees
charged: Ailments which are treated and
whether such treatment is harmful or
beneficial: The question of whether the
Scientology practitioners engaged in un-
lawful or improper practices. Mr An-
derson, 51, will have as secretary to his
Board of Inquiry, Mr lan Crook, As-
sistant Secretary of the Maternal and
Child Welfare Branch of the Health
Department.
The Scientologists welcomed the inquiry.
The Australian Director of the Hubbard
Association of Scientologists Inter-
national, Mr Peter Williams, publicly
thanked Mr Bolte. “We are absolutely
jubilant,” he said. For good measure, the
Association took out a Supreme Court
writ claiming damages against Mirror
Newspapers Ltd for alleged defamatory
and untrue statements which appeared in
“Truth” last January.
BUSINESS
Korman’s Surprise Move
Back on the throne?
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
STANLEY KORMAN
working furiously
Opeaking over the heads of the Receiver
and the trustee for debenture holders
last Friday, Mr Stanley Korman sprang
his biggest surprise packet yet in his bid
to regain control of Factors. As mention-
ed in last week’s Bulletin, Korman has
been working furiously behind the scenes
to make an arrangement with Commer-
cial and General Acceptance Ltd (in
which the Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney has a 40 p.c. and W. R. Car-
penter Ltd an 11.7 p.c. shareholding)
whereby the whole Factors group could
be held intact.
Now Korman is apparently prepared
to settle for something rather less. That
is, he would be prepared to let Holeproof
(Australia), one of the two profitable
subsidiaries of Factors, go to a bidder
(unnamed as yet) for something like
£3i million, which is far in advance of
what the Receiver thought in July he
could get for this Factors’ subsidiary.
With this £3k million and £l.B
million which CAGA is apparently
willing to put up he would be in a posi-
tion to satisfy all amounts (estimated at
£5.4 million) due to debenture holders,
note holders and other creditors of Fac-
tors, send the Receiver packing, and
carry on the company which would then
have Holeproof (NZ) as a hard and
profitable core, together with the remain-
ing bits and pieces of the other 40 or
more subsidiaries.
Last year Holeproof (NZ) earned
about £350,000 net, so with interest on
the £l.B million loan from CAGA
say £144,000 (at 8 p.c.) there
would be plenty to spars for Factors’
shareholders, especially if what Factors’
directors now say about a significant
appreciation in value of the group’s other
assets is right. The shares, and doubtless
Korman also, perked up considerably on
this prospect.
What the staid shareholders in the
CBS and W. R. Carpenter holdings
were thinking about CAGA’s move to
put Korman back on his throne in timfc
for the next boom could only be con-
jectured.
EMPLOYMENT
School-leavers
in the Country
The Fifteen-year-olds
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
Whatever the pattern of the economy
for the next ten years the problem
of the country school-leavers will be
with us. While the figures of the De-
partment of Labor provide some sources
and highlights of the worst trouble spots,
what has been lacking so far is some at-
tempt at a social analysis of the problem,
with some breakdown of the class of
students affected.
The only attempt has been the work
in progress by the Australian Federation
of University Women which will come
forward for discussion in Hobart next
month.
The preliminary report of the NSW
section of the Federation has highlighted
some of the population drift trends in
country areas. In the Richmond Valley
area the report refers to attempts to get
a Teachers’ College because of the fact
that 90 per cent of the better fifth-year
students were leaving the district. In the
semi-professional class for girls, hospitals
in local towns had long waiting lists
which meant that some girls were 20
before they could begin nursing.
The drift of talented male students
from the Richmond Valley had also had
one interesting result, because senior and
more skilled office girls felt they had
to leave the district because they couldn't
find the right class of young men to
marry.
On the Northern Tablelands when
two jobs were listed at the Glen Innes
employment office for girls earlier this
year there were 100 leavers waiting to
fill them. The leaver with the Inter-
mediate certificate or lower has had diffi-
culty in being placed even late in the
year. The survey, carried out by women
graduates in the area, speaks of a ten-
dency for boys to choose armed service
careers to provide training opportunities.
The women graduates taking the sur-
vey concluded that the “problems of
travelling, accommodation and oppor-
tunity make it very difficult for the
average country child to realise his po-
tential.


On more general conclusions the NSW
women survey-takers reported general
disgruntlement among employers and per-
sonnel officers with those, both boys and
girls, who left school at 15. They fail-
ed in spelling, basic arithmetic and ability
to express themselves in grammatical
English.
Questions of status, according to the
report, played a big role in many young
people of low ability expecting a better
kind of job. In country towns, even
where there were domestic service op-
portunities, many young girls would
rather draw unemployment benefits.
The report concluded that the prob-
lem of the 15-year-old girl school-leaver
in the country was a major one. It sug-
gested perhaps diplomas in home man-
agement to give status to domestic work.
QUEENSLAND
A Law Against
Fake Deaths
The Case of the “Murdered" Taxi-driver
FROM A BRISBANE CORRESPONDENT
PREMIER NICKLIN
Cabinet approval
People who fake death to get away
from it all will be punished under
a Bill introduced in State Parliament last
week. Premier Nicklin’s Cabinet approv-
ed the legislation after a series of cases.
Explaining the Bill, Police Minister
Alex. Dewar told the House of a taxi-
cab found on the river bank at the
southside suburb of Dutton Park, in
circumstances suggesting the taxi-driver
had been murdered. But the driver had
deliberately cut his thumb, smeared
blood on the car, left some blood-stained
clothing, and fled to Sydney.
The Minister said it had transpired
that the man was domestically unhappy
because of his association with women
other than his wife, and his indebtedness.
In another case, a Surfers Paradise
man had left his home at night to go
fishing. He did not return and next
morning his dinghy was found on a
sandbank, with an oar and fishing gear
in it. Another oar was washed up on
the beach.
Mr Dewar said the man was heard of
in Sydney nearly nine months later. He
had been in financial difficulties and had
been threatened with bankruptcy.
However, Mr Dewar told Parliament
that action could be taken in such cases
only at the direction of a police in-
spector, a step designed to stop abuses
of the power.
The same Bill widened the powers of
ordinary rank and file constables in the
State’s 117 one-man police stations.
Previously a wide range of searches
could only be performed, officially any-
how, by a sergeant. However, in future
the one-man police station constable will
have the same powers.
BASIC WAGE
Over to the
Commissioners
Wage Inflation Threat
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
HAROLD HOLT
A warning
/\ne would have thought that in a TV
election broadcast in Melbourne last
week Mr R. J. Hawke, the trade unions’
industrial advocate, might have stopped
short of criticising the Government for
not supporting claims for higher wages
in the Arbitration Court. Politics apart,
it will be a bad day for the arbitration
system in this country when governments,
of whatever political complexion, step
beyond the neutral role of giving factual
submissions to the Arbitration Commis-
sion on the state of the economy and its
capacity to pay higher wages. If the
arbitration system is to work at all, it
must be free from pressures of all sorts,
and, like the rest of the judicial system,
depend on impartiality of judgment and
not follow any particular Government
line. (That is not to say that some other
system of wage determination might not
be preferable to it.)
As we are stuck with the system,
economists can only hope for sane judg-
ments by the Commissioners, especially
in the Basic Wage Case coming up in
February. For if the Arbitration Com-
mission runs true to past form in mak-
ing judgments in periods of high pros-
perity (witness 1950 when it put on £i)
and, against the expected background of
a super-buoyant economy next year,
gives a substantial lift to the basic wage,
the brave electioneering claims of
politicians in recent weeks that they can
get growth with stability after such a rise
will have to be discarded.
In his parting message after a most
distinguished term as President of the
Associated Chambers of Manufactures,
Mr T. M. Ramsay pointed the dangers
and in particular those arising from the
spiralling effects of the regular periodic
adjustment of wages to a price index, to
which in its 1961 judgment the Commis-
sion partially reverted. Mr Ramsay said
that although this decision had been con-
demned by economists, employers had
the task in the next few months of per-
suading the Commission that it was
doomed to failure, that wage increases
based on it would be completely illusory
if they exceeded gains in productivity.
As the next basic wage case is expected
to determine the principles on which judg-
ments will be based for years ahead,
Ramsay said some hard thinking would
have to be done on the inter-relation of
basic wage and margins cases, now of
course decided independently and seem-
ingly without recognition of the fact that
an increase in the basic wage reduced the
capacity of the economy to pay.
However, as we had a rise in margins
this year, it would be surprising, but not
economically unacceptable, should the
Commission take the view that this in
turn had reduced the capacity to pay a
higher basic wage. For the danger in
increasing the basic wage by a substantial
amount next year will lie not so much in
cost-push effects but rather on grounds
of stepping up effective demand beyond
the level where there was a sufficiency of
goods to accommodate it without causing
price increases.
It was the latter which Mr H. E.
Holt seemed to be speaking about when,
addressing the Chartered Institute of
Secretaries in Melbourne last week, he
warned that care must be taken that the
result of next year’s basic wage case
did not upset the rather delicate balance
of the economy.


I
!
Hill
I;
**»
PD
CO
X
;
m
ms
r
Hi
II
An executive meeting at 20,000 feet. Happens quite often on
Ansett-ANA. You see, most Australian businessmen just
naturally choose Ansett-ANA when they have to fly. They like
the service they get and the general efficiency of Ansett-ANA
people . . . from reservations clerks right through to the highly
qualified aeronautical engineers who maintain the Ansett-
ANA fleet.
INSIST ON SUPERIOR SERVICE-ALWAYS BOOK
ANSETT-ANA
HERE ARE SOME OTHER FEATURES ABOUT
ANSETT-ANA THAT MEN OF BUSINESS LIKE.
The prestige and convenience of Ansett-ANA
credit card facilities.
The handy Ansett-ANA/Avis Fly-drive arrange-
ments. When you arrive, your car is waiting
for you.
The Ansett-ANA accommodation service takes
care of all arrangements for one person, or 1
full convention group .
V'
m*-
f 1
9637


PROFILE
The Life and
Times of LBJ
Deep in the heart of Texas
From GEORGE McGANN in New York
6;X m a ranc^er an£ * I’ m a banker and
public employee and a father;
•"* and I'm not as young as I once was
and I’m older than I’d like to be. I hope
I’m progressive without being radical.
I want to be prudent without being re-
actionary.”
That is the self-assessment of Lyndon
Baines Johnson, the 36th President of
the United States, a 55-year-old Texan,
as given to an interviewer while he was
a Senator and one of the most influential
and respected legislators Washington has
ever known.
The new President, a New Dealer
under his hero, Franklin D. Roosevelt,
a Fair Dealer under Harry Truman, and
a New Frontiersman under John F.
Kennedy, is an ornament of the Liberal
wing of the Democratic Party, but will
be no pale copy of those predecessors.
The centre of power in the United States
may not move “from Boston to Austin”,
as the political wiseacres were predicting
a few hours after President Johnson
went into action in the White House the
very night of Kennedy’s death. But
there seems no doubt that the tall,
affable, fast-moving Texan will run his
own show in his own way and eventually,
if not immediately, with his own long-
time aides and associates around him.
No man in the history of the United
States has been so well prepared to take
over the Presidency at short notice as
Lyndon Johnson. Not only did he serve
in Congress in increasingly important
posts under four Presidents; he was in-
cluded in every important decision made
by President Kennedy and priyy to every
high-level Governmental secret.
This is in marked contrast to the
accession of Harry Truman to the
highest office in the land, when President
Roosevelt succumbed to a cerebral
haemorrhage during the last phase of
World War 11. Only after he had been
thrust unprepared and unbriefed into
Roosevelt’s job did the Senator from
Missouri learn that the United States had
possessed an atom bomb for more than
two years, and was preparing to drop it
at the right moment on Japan.
President Johnson’s entrance into the
White House was remarkably smooth
and swift. Six hours after he took the
oath of office aboard the Presidential
plane on the airstrip in Dallas, with the
mutilated body of the dead President
coffined in the baggage compartment
below, President Johnson was conferring
with Defence Secretary McNamara in
the White House on the state of alert of
the armed forces, after which he met for
several hours with Congressional leaders
of both parties to discuss current
legislation.
The day after the unforgettable page-
antry of the funeral ceremonies the new
President held personal meetings of
great meaning and import with President
de Gaulle, Prime Minister Douglas-
Home, Chancellor Erhard, Prime Mini-
ster Pearson and other leaders of the
free world, as well as with First Deputy
Premier Mikoyan of the Soviet Union.
Despite his established reputation as
a fighter for Liberal causes, the business
community looks upon President John-
son as more friendly to their special
interests than his predecessor. This was
dramatically demonstrated by the be-
havior of the stock market, which leaped
upward in record-breaking fashion the
first morning of trading after the three-
day suspension for the Presidential
funeral.
President Kennedy, like his aristocratic
predecessor, Franklin Roosevelt, was a
man born to great wealth who never had
to work for a living and “never met a
payroll”, as his big business critics were
fond of remarking. Lyndon Johnson
was born in modest circumstances,
received little more than a high school
education in Texas State schools, but, in
the approved American fashion, he and
his wife Ladybird have managed to
accumulate a fortune exceeding one
million dollars through shrewd invest-
ment in real estate and television stations
in their native State.
Lyndon Johnson is a strapping, six-
foot three-inch, folksy individual, who
looks and feels completely at home in a
six-gallon hat, riding a horse over his
cattle station, the LBJ Ranch, on the
banks of the Pedernales River, where
his grandfather built a frontier stone
house 100 years ago (the things he likes
to do best are also far removed from the
sophisticated eastern hobbies of the
Kennedys, with their yachts, their
musicales in the East Room of the White
House and their Harvard Yard friends).
He comes from the “good Texas”,
the cattle, agricultural and Liberal
Texas, as distinct from the oil, petro-
chemical and extreme Right-wing Texas.
His father’s father —who fought for the
Confederacy against the Union—and his
father were both members of the Texas
Legislature, and another of his an-
cestors on the same side carried a rifle
for Texas against the Mexicans. His


WELCOME TO HON 6 KONG.. STYLE
Our brand-new Mandarin, a member of the famous Intercontinental Hotels group,
treats you to ancient delights and every modern comfort. Below, a brief sample:
SPIRIT OF HAPPINESS. Fu Sheri, our household diety and
the legendary spirit of happiness, welcomes you to thejjnusual
colors and Oriental pleasures of the Mandarin.
"w
LA
'l/0./' f 1
i
K
>jfrK\ \
r it ;i hU
FROM THE TERRACE. On the edge of the harbor, and in the
midst of everything, our Mandarin commands the most spec-
tacular view of the most spectacular harbor in the world. So
does your private terrace.
*
r if : "V"
m r
ffl JLf? ... n.-ii'
n
r/av
THE CHICKEN IS MANDARIN. You are invited to six Man*:
darin restaurants—from the ground-floor Harbour Room to
“The Button,” our supper-club—and such defectables as the
Mandarin Chicken.. .ginger, bird and brandy served with
Chow Fan Rice.
"T 7
’ v
27 STORY SPLASH. Sun bathers decorate the garden that
grows atop our Mandarin, To their right, the lapis lazuli pool
—to their left the cocktail lounge—and in all directions, the
panorama of Hong Kong,/
r ■]
r
Reservations: Cali your Travel Agent or Intercontinental
\ y MEMBER OF INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS-T. A. P. ROSS, Mgr.


father was notable in the fight against
the Ku-Klux-Klan, and fought against
local moves to ban the teaching of
German in Texas schools during World
War I.
On his mother’s side his forebears
were Baptist preachers and teachers,
typical of the pioneering stock of modest
means from which the conservative
South likes to choose its leaders.
Johnson was born in Stonewall, Texas,
on August 27, 1908, and left high school
at 15, first to hitch-hike to California,
and then to work for two years as a
common laborer in road-building gangs.
It was his father who persuaded him to
go to college, and he worked his way
through South - West Texas State
Teachers’ College, graduating with a
B.Sc. in 1930. He taught in a Houston
school for nearly two years before going
to Washington for the first time as
secretary to a Congressman.
In 1934 Johnson met and wed Claudia
Alta Taylor, daughter of a Texas
station owner, who is invariably called
Ladybird, a nickname given her in child-
hood. They have two teenage daughters,
Lynda Bird and Lucy Baines. It is the
Johnsons’ whim to give their children
the famed LBJ initials; even the John-
sons’ dog is called Little Beagle.
The handsome, gregarious, smallish,
dark Ladybird is an indefatigable enter-
tainer, a shrewd business woman, and
has been an extraordinary help to John-
son in his political career, which began
to move forward rapidly after their
marriage.
It is she who has taken charge of his
personal finances and made him a rich
man, by any standards but those of his
predecessor.
The handsome young couple were
soon part of the social life of the capital,
and Lyndon caught the eye of President
Roosevelt, who appointed him Texas
administrator of the National Youth
Administration, a depression-years pro-
ject dear to the heart of the architect
of the New Deal. It was in this job that
Johnson developed the great devotion to
Roosevelt and the Liberal ideal that has
marked his political career.
At the age of 28 Johnson ran for his
first political office, won it and took
a seat in the House of Representatives.
He was regarded as one of the Demo-
cratic Party’s bright young men when
War briefly interrupted his career.
Johnson went to the South Pacific as
a Navy Lieutenant-Commander and won
a Silver Star before his return to the
States late in 1941 to run unsuccessfully
for the US Senate. He lost by a handful
of votes, but was successful in winning
a senatorial seat in 1948, also by a tiny
margin. He liked to refer to himself as
“Landslide Lyndon”.
Johnson’s tremendous personal charm
and mastery of the art of politicking
earned him the post of Senate minority
leader under President Eisenhower be-
fore he finished his first term in the
Upper House. In 1954 the Democrats
won control of Congress and Johnson
swiftly became the most effective
majority leader of modern times. His
energy and drive were prodigious. His
eighteen-hour days and seven-day weeks
eventually proved too much a burden on
his heart, and in 1955 he suffered a
major coronary.
Although Johnson had a close brush
with death, he resumed his tasks in the
Senate within six months and was soon
moving at a pace not far below his
former speed. Subsequent physical
checkups have found Johnson to be in
excellent health. Recovery from the
heart attack was said to have been so
complete that doctors could not detect
that he had ever suffered one. Long
afterwards he used to carry an electro-
cardiograph in his pocket which he
liked to show to visitors to prove how
absolute his recovery had been.
T>epublicans attempted to make John-
son’s health an issue in the 1960
campaign, when he was seeking the Vice-
Presidency, and might do so again next
year, if Johnson runs for re-election, as
he is almost certain to do.
Senator Johnson dominated the Senate
and drove through much legislation
desired by President Eisenhower, using
a combination of personal pleading and
bluff and threat. Even Richard Nixon,
the President of the Senate, had to admit
that Johnson was “one of the ablest
political craftsmen of our time”.
He works at a killing pace, with an
untapped enthusiasm for power. His
touchiness and thin-skin is almost as
well known as his political generalship,
and when overseas he telephones home
daily to find out what newspapermen are
writing back about him; and becomes
cool to any who qualify their praise.
Meanwhile, Johnson had developed
Presidential ambitions, and in 1960
made a determined bid for the role of
party standard-bearer in opposition to
Senator John Kennedy, who was nine
years his junior and far less experienced
in the political arena. But he lacked the
vast resources of the Kennedy family
machine.
As a Southerner he was handicapped
by the furore over civil rights and by
the widespread feeling that only a
Northerner could win the Negro vote.
Although his personal exchanges with
Kennedy were bitter at times (he charged
that the elder Kennedy, former Ambassa-
dor to London Joseph P. Kennedy, had
been “soft on Nazism”), he immediately
agreed to run tor the Vice-Presidency
when John Kennedy won the nomination
at Los Angeles. His loyal support of
Kennedy and his vigorous campaigning,
particularly in Texas and elsewhere in
the south, were credited with helping to
swing the closest election in history to
the Democrats.
From the day that Kennedy moved
into the White House he received
Johnson’s utterly dedicated assistance.
Although never a member of the “inner
circle” of Harvard professors and in-
THE SUCCESSION
Article Two, Section One, Clause
Six of the US Constitution pro-
vides: “In case of the removal of the
President from office, or of his death,
resignation, or inability to discharge
the powers and duties of the said
office, the same shall devolve on the
Vice-President . .
Thus, Vice-President Lyndon B.
Johnson became the 36th President,
succeeding the assassinated John F.
Kennedy.
Provisions for filling the office in
the event of the deaths of both the
President and the Vice-President were
contained in a law enacted by Con-
gress in 1947. This revision of an
1886 law of succession provides that
the following officials of the Govern-
ment become President in the follow-
ing order.
1. Speaker of the House of Rep-
resentatives (Rep. John W.
McCormack is the incumbent).
2. President Pro Tempore of the
Senate (Senator Carl Hayden of
Arizona) (Note: The Vice-
President is President of the
Senate).
3. Secretary of State (Dean Rusk).
4. Secretary of the Treasury (C.
Douglas Dillon).
5. Secretary of Defence (Robert
McNamara).
6. Attorney - General (Robert
Kennedy, brother of the late
President).
7. Postmaster-General (John Gro-
nouski).
8. Secretary of the Interior
(Stewart Udall).
9. Secretary of Agriculture
(Orville Freeman).
10. Secretary of Commerce (Luther
Hodges).
11. Secretary of Labor (Willard
Wirtz).


tellectuals headed by the President’s
brother, Robert Kennedy, Johnson was
consulted by the President on every
major issue. He was at every Cabinet
meeting, at every meeting of the vital
Security Council, and at meetings of the
Executive Committee, the Congressional
Committee and Press conferences.
On domestic issues Johnson tended to
be on the moderate and even con-
servative side, but in foreign affairs he
v/as described as being in favor of a
tough line against the Communist threats
everywhere in the world.
He confided that he wanted to be the
kind of Vice-President to Kennedy that
he himself would have wanted had he
won the Presidency. Johnson was con-
stantly at the White House, unless he
was travelling at Kennedy’s behest. He
was often on the telephone to his chief,
swam in the White House pool with him,
and dined often, with his wife, in cosy
foursomes with the Kennedys.
Kennedy sent Johnson abroad to
South-East Asia, to Europe and to Latin
America. He was chairman of the
Space Council, charged with getting a
man on the moon in this decade. He
was chairman of the Committee on
Equal Employment Opportunities, which
won him the respect and affection of the
Negroes, despite his Southern origin. It
is important to note that when he took
over the Presidency he was immediately
given the whole-hearted support of
Adam Clayton Powell, one of the most
powerful figures in the Negro Civil
Rights Movement.
Tf he sometimes felt frustrated and
limited by the duties of the Vice-
President, Johnson never displayed the
feeling publicly. When Kennedy’s
domestic programme bogged down in
Congress Johnson might have yearned
to return to the Senate and whip the
legislation through, as he had done for
both Democratic and Republican Presi-
dents. One of the optimistic thoughts
about his Presidency is that he may be
able to woo Congress to pass bills on tax
reform, civil rights and medical care for
the aged which Kennedy could not get
enacted into law.
President Johnson’s major talent is in
getting along with people. “Come now
and let us reason together,” is his
favorite Biblical quotation. Although he
was the spearhead of the Senatorial
movement to censure the late Joseph
McCarthy, Johnson has many close
personal ties with the most reactionary
members of Congress.
“He is neither an intellectual, a philo-
sopher, nor an innovator,” one frienc
commented. “But at the little matter of
getting along in the world, day to day,
Lyndon has few peers.”
Johnson has thought long and deeply
about the role of the President. As Vice-
President he once put these thoughts into
words:
“The Presidency is the most burden-
some job in the world. When I fly over
cities and think of all the people in their
homes looking to the President to make
decisions that are wise and just so far
as economics are concerned, involving
their jobs and earnings, and their boys
and their households and whether the
lights will burn at night or whether there
will be a nuclear blast that will wipe
them right out, it’s terrifying. It’s not
the President that gets in trouble when
things go %vrong. It’s the country that
gets in trouble, and the whole free
world.”
The hatred and violence engendered
by the Negro struggle for equality un-
doubtedly contributed to the fanaticism
which caused the death of John Ken-
nedy. It is in this area of American life
that Lyndon Johnson faces his greatest
challenge and opportunity. He is
uniquely equipped, as a Southerner and
a champion of Negro progress, to help
end the fierce racial strife which has
alarmed every thinking American, as
well as friends and allies abroad.
The shock of the late President’s
assassination can lead to a new mood of
tolerance and moderation if the new
President acts promptly and wisely. His
“First Hundred Days” in office will be
of enormous importance in this critical
era of American life. He must act
before the election of 1964, which is
bound to bring about renewed tensions
and divisions on race questions.
When Lincoln died another President
named Johnson —Andrew—succeeded to
the White House. His weakness and
ineffectuality fostered the stark excesses
of the carpet-baggers in the reconstruc-
tion period. President Lyndon Johnson’s
primary task is to see that this kind of
tragedy does not recur in America 100
. years later, following the death of a
latter-day Lincoln.
"This one's really typical, sir a polished mulga wood model of a
highway intersection with a rival service station on each corner."


OUT AND ABOUT
Beatling Along
“A lot of rubbish, really ”
From a London Correspondent
It doesn’t do to knock the Beatles, Eng-
land’s new pop music idols. A Lon-
don jazz critic, Benny Green, did so,
almost by accident, on TV recently.
Without any deep feeling one way or
the other, Green said he thought there
wasn’t much musical value in what the
Beatles do. Now he gets letters with
menacing beetles drawn on the envelope
and enclosures which say, for instance:
“Listen Mate. I jus won to say dat
your gob on telly 2 night was last. The
Beatles, mate, make a better and original
sound than any other group. If you
think you can make an original sound
from your trumpitt and sacks then record
it and see if people will buy it and mob
you and Q up for you for days. If there
were more groups as good as the Beatles
this land we call Eng would be gear. So
go buy yourself a surgical boot and go
criticise yourself sum jazz.”
Actually, dissenting voices are few and
nervous. People may be found along
London’s Tin Pan Alley who say “Don’t
quote me, but ...”
What they go on to say is never very
harsh. They simply deny that the Beatles
are creating an entirely new sound.
“Speaking off the record and as a musi-
cian,” one of them said, “so far as I’m
concerned the Mersey Sound is no dif-
ferent from what the Shadows were doing
two or three years ago. It’s LOUDER
a terrific beat —but it’s still rock ’n’ roll
music.”
You won’t find the Beatles themselves
eager to deny this. There’s an accumula-
ting archive of Beatles obiter dicta at the
Beatles Press Office and Fans Club HQ,
over a bookshop near Soho featuring in
its window “The Psychology of Sexual
Emotion.” Here one of the group is
shown as saying: “This Liverpool Sound
. . . well, we tend to think it’s a lot of
rubbish, really.”
But people are evidently drawn to the
Beatles by factors other than the extra-
ordinary noise they make. The main body
of truly obsessed fans the compulsive
screamers seem to be extremely young
taking in the 10-12 age-group as well as
the teenagers. But even the grown-ups
who reacted with sharp distaste to the
T>ECORDS of the Beatles are,
according to EMI, selling like hot
cakes in Australia and the group may
tour next year. However, the record-
ings are disappointing. The Mersey
Sound is nothing more than weak
Johnny O’Keefe or Col Joye. The
Liverpool accent has been flattened
into the same ersatz American that
comes from any sound lounge in the
cities of Australia.
Elvis Presley cult a few years back now
speak about the Beatles with real affec-
tion.
Musicians may find nothing unique
in the Mersey Sound, but the Beatles are
broadcasting the true and unique voice of
Liverpool’s working class and this is what
most people admire. The Beatles were all
born during the blitz of Merseyside. They
have grown up in a tough, violent city
and have developed an immense self-
confidence.
The “Daily Worker” has cashed in on
their Mersey Sound, calling it the voice
of 80,000 crumbling houses and 30,000
people on the dole. The Beatle songs are
certainly defiant like numbers from
a pop-opera about a council flats rent-
strike.
The working-class accent is exag-
gerated, not refined away but made to
sound as crude as it can be. But the
tone is triumphant, not resentful. For the
Beatles the battle seems over and won
and now they’re friends with everybody.
Mr Tony Barrow, the Beatles’ Press
officer and record critic for the “Liver-
pool Echo”, thinks they’re a success with
the adult world in particular because they
epitomise Northern Man his natural-
ness, directness, the “truthfulness” behind
those hard and nobby faces.
We found a 14-year-old high school
girl taking the same line. “Well,” she
said, “you usually think of film stars,
pop singers, etc., as living in glamorous
places, Hollywood and so on. But the
Beatles aren't like that. It’s Liverpool . ..
where ‘Z-Cars’ comes from.”
Others, mainly in the mid-20s age-
group, are for the Beatles because they
represent “a break with America” that
started with a revolt against the Elvis
cult and has run through Tommy Steele,
Lonnie Doriegan, Cliff Richard a
local, national pop, with strong working-
class, do-it-yourself undertones. The fans
now have people they can identify with
directly, instead of “a remote American
hero on a record.”
Impeccably neat
HThe same group also finds the Beatles
A typical of “a trend towards decency”
—crude but direct about sex instead of
sly and sentimental; high professionals
with nothing bogus about their act. The
Ancient British hair-dos and the group’s
clothes may strike the older generations
as bizarre, but the young ones observe
only that they are impeccably neat.
The Beatles are intelligent, too.
“They’ve got quite a few O-levels between
them,” is how Mr George Martin, chief
producer of the firm that is making the
Beatle discs puts it. They talk in a
Goonish, witty way and it all comes
straight from under their own mops.
They have no gag-writers yet. And
there’s also something beat and Kerouac-
like in what they say.
Someone asked them to say what it was
about Liverpool that excited people so
much. “It’s exciting trying to keep alive,”
one of them said.
There may be no special Mersey
Sound, but the Beatles were born out of
a staggering local upsurge of pop music
groups. It’s been throbbing under the
sombre Liverpool surface for more than
three years now, without attracting much


m
****
m
•
mm.
a
c
WA, W •:
‘'^^'■vv'^~>SSi'''^'^..>»
iHii
r^>
All
fuel oils
are not alike!
•?
s*w~j£
~..,4
r-: .r- * * .*
<&»©
Sr
t M ■
> ?•!
*
'm.
w>
S 3
*****
If!
P^l
.y
CT
ft? '^isrs
®wst
IPM
88!
3S„;
s*w.
C
O
O
A
There can be vast differences in the characteristics and
hence the handling and burning qualities of particular fuels.
A low pour point makes for easier pumpability at low tem-
peratures and reduced cost of equipment, whereas low
viscosity oils promote lower heating costs.
Factors such as these should be correctly evaluated when
considering the prices of available fuel oils.
Amoco sells fuel oils at competitive prices and, further, our
laboratory and technical staff see that the right fuel is
used in any application. Let us help you to ensure that
you get “a better deal in fuel oils.” You need only contact
one of the Amoco Branch Offices listed below for prompt
attention to your requirements.
AMOCO AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
Brisbane: 119 Leichhardt Street. Phone 2-2781. Sydney: 201 Botany Road, Waterloo. Phone 69-7651
Melbourne: 34 Queen’s Road. Phone 26-4043. Adelaide: 38-40 Currie Street. Phone 51-2692
AI.FP.2.


outside attention until the Beatles hit the
top.
One group called The Undertakers
wear top-hats and black crepe and have
loudspeakers shaped like coffins. They
once turned up at the Locarno carrying
a dead cat and have been photographed
in graveyards. Another amplified group
call themselves the Ghost Squad. They
wear white hoods and skull masks and
look like white citizens on a night out
in the Deep South.
Also on offer are The Four Just Men,
The Riot Squad, Rory Storm and the
Hurricanes, Jeannie and the Big Guys.
Or you can have The Beathovens.
In the Cavern Club the cellar-tunnel
under a warehouse where the Beatles
began the huge invigorating Sound
booms against the brick walls. Five hun-
dred young people stand in the thick
gloom and do “The Whack” a kind
of continuous twitch.
It’s impossible to count the groups on
Merseyside today. Failure and bursts of
temperament make them chop and
change continually, disbanding old
groups, forming new ones. They spend
between £lOOO and £2OOO “on the
knocker” (hire-purchase for their guitars,
drum kits and amplifiers.
Most of the Beat clubs are in halls
and old cinemas beyond the city centre.
They’re all doing excellent business.
Some of the smaller clubs in the middle
of Liverpool don’t have groups, but just
play records under purple lights and sell
coffee. One of these is The Sink, a cellar-
room under a snack bar called the
Rumblin’ Turn. Members are issued with
a black sink-plug on a chain instead of
cards.
There are plenty of experts in Liver-
pool willing to explain the Sound. A
young man in a black leather jacket said
the city is a “crude” place and the Sound
is crude, with an emphatic beat. One of
the successful local promoters said:
“There’s realism in this city. It’s a city
of mixtures, but it’s also grubby and
very crude. Fundamentally, the music is
like that. With the trad Sound, the musi-
cian’s saying ‘l’m doing you a favor.
Sit still and listen.’ It’s not like that with
the Beat. It tells everyone to join in
makes them join in.”
But Liverpool’s also a seaport, edged
up against a wide estuary, a kind of
dead end with a tremendous sense of
community. And it’s also in touch with
America. New “sounds” reach Liverpool
before anywhere else in the island because
young seamen bring home with them
American pop records not yet released in
Britain.
Liverpool seems to breed self-assured,
vital young people who are “jumping” in
early boyhood and nowadays learning the
guitar by ear, from pop records
as soon as they are big enough to hold
one. They have a ganging-up tradition
street gangs at one extreme, boys’
clubs at the other.
The gangs, clubs and groups rate
loyalty very high. And the unforgivable
sin is big-headedness. The Beatles are
still enormously popular in their home
town because they have avoided this
breach of ethics. In fact, the Beatles are
strong on ethics altogether; at early
record - making sessions they regarded
over - dubbing with suspicion until Mr
Martin convinced them it was no more
unethical than an electric guitar. If any-
one shows off in a Liverpool group-per-
formance, he’s liable to have someone
pull out the plug of his electric guitar in
mid-phrase.
The Sound has its own newspaper
“The Mersey Beat”. It costs 6d. and sells
30,000 copies a fortnight. Bill Harry, the
editor, works in an office above a wine
shop. He says the current Sound move-
ment developed from the “skiffle phase,”
which for some reason stayed on in
Liverpool, when it died in the rest of
the country. The first group to play in
the present style was Rory Storm and the
Hurricanes, who started up in Liverpool
seven years ago and are now working in
Germany.
Beatlemania, psychologists say, has a
long pedigree. Apart from compulsive
dancing to drum-beats among Africans,
they mention the young girls known to
have swooned when “the blades” swag-
gered through medieval Florence and
squealed in eighteenth-century England
as the redcoats marched by.
Some of these experts find the sub-
conscious significance of guitars in-
triguing. They fancy that their female
symbolism is evident and point out that
pre-Hellenic stone statuettes of women
might well be mistaken for toy guitars.
The pop cult is generally considered
a rich field for psycho-analysis, but in
fact it has been little investigated. As
one psycho-analyst said sadly: “There
are no funds for studying adolescents un-
less they are delinquent.”
At all events, the fact that the Beatles
and hordes of other groups like them
have been rousing the young to frenzies
in Liverpool and other provincial cities
for years without attracting widespread
adult attention suggests that this can be
a fairly private world. Within it the teen-
agers create their own idols and then
lose them when the promoters raise these
pop singers to national eminence.
Experts in the business believe this
helps to explain the riots in the streets
when the elevated pop singers make their
national appearances. The youngsters feel
shut out and are reaching out to hold the
receding idol. As these authorities see
things, it also explains why new idols
keep appearing.
We got this final piece of wisdom from
a teenager who felt old enough to throw
a tender light on the Beatle fans whom
she saw as being younger than herself.
Asked why she thought these young ones
so readily joined the Beatle frenzy, she
said: “Because they’re lonely, of course.”
Cast in an Heroic Mould
Sculptor without a tag
By J. C. KAYE
A photograph of Norma Redpath in
the booklet that Grayflower Pub-
lications put out for her recent
show of sculpture at Gallery A, South
Yarra, was taken from above so that
she looks up and to the right of the
camera with an intense expression, her
eyes and mouth rather hard. Her hair
shows black. She could be one of the
fringe figures that turn up in the art
world of Italy in the pictures of Michel-
angelo Antonioni.
In a loosely-fitting jumper her shoul-
ders are broad, and the neck above is
columnar and strong. One can accept
that this is the 35-year-old woman whose
bronze creations at Gallery A brought
these comments from the art critics of
Melbourne’s dailies:
The “Herald”: “Sledge-hammer im-
pact” . . . “an extraordinary tour de force
in bronze-castings” ... “A sculptor
capable of large, sustained dynamic con-
ceptions” . . . “the first emanation in
Australia of contemporary full-scale
monumental sculpture.”
The “Sun News-Pictorial”: “Her
images are bold and imaginative. Her
smaller bronzes also demonstrate her
extraordinary powers of invention . . . ”
The “Age”: “ . . . Without doubt one
of the most impressive sculptors at work
today. There is nothing mean or cramped
about her work. It now has a largeness
of conception, a baroque amplitude, a
feeling of controlled power.”
Either cameras have learned to fib a
little, or the Norma Redpath I met the
other evening outside one of Melbourne’s
own Victorian-baroque creations, the
Spencer Street post-office, is a different
woman.
She’s a doll. Her height is around
5 ft. 5 ins. Her hair is not nearly so


AS
RTEMP
YEAR ROUND
AIR CONDITIONING
'
Cools & Heats
right round
Australia ...
and the World.
We would need 120 tons of ice on a summer day to
cool the twelve floors of 505 St. Kilda Road. But it
takes just 35 Chrysler 5 H.P. and 8 H.P. Packaged
Units to do the job.
The advantages of placing a number of packaged units
throughout the building are that each floor may be
regulated to a mean temperature chosen by the
occupants of each floor—and a service call for what-
ever reason does not interrupt the continuity of cooling
or heating for other people in the building.
Your Airtemp Distributor will show you, for instance,
the job we’ve done for Kodak in Perth, Hotel Australia
in Adelaide, Peak Frean in Sydney and Camden Home
Units in Brisbane. Or he’ll take you into offices,
restaurants, council chambers, R.S.L. clubs and
hospitals or private homes that are better places to
work and live in. This is because they are air
conditioned by Chrysler.
Walter P. Chrysler of automobile fame pioneered the
packaged system of air conditioning back in 1934.
Since then,Chrysler engineers have evolved economical
units with installation flexibility that has earned
Chrysler an outstanding reputation,for the finest air
conditioning ever developed.
Tell us YOUR problems.
THE BUILDING DOESN'T
EXIST THAT CAN’T
BE AIR CONDITIONED
BY CHRYSLER
AIRTEMP
There are Profits in the Comfort Zone when you own Chrysler
Airtemp year round Air Conditioning. Your Air temp Distributor
will be pleased to show you how.
Q’LD.: Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 620 Stanley St., Woolloongabba. Phone 4 2941
N.S.W.: Strataflo Pty. Ltd., Cnr. Paramatta Rd. & Barr St., Camperdown. Phone 51 6645
A.C.T.: A.C.T. Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd., 14 Yallourn St., Fyshwick. Phone 9 0081
VIC.: Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 291 Moray St., S. Melbourne. Phone 69 7114
S.A.: Chrysler Australia Limited, Airtemp Division, Finsbury . . . Phone 45 3661
W.A.: Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd., 657 Murray St., Perth ..... Phone 23 2214
CM 62
PHOTOGRAPH of
505 St. Kilda Road,
Melbourne.
* SPECIAL LEASING
FACILITIES ARE NOW
AVAILABLE. PLEASE
PHONE OR WRITE
FOR DETAILS.
AIRTEMP DIVISION CHRYSLER
Wj*S[ AUSTRALIA LTD


Pi.
V.
N
r
#- OiiAms.
CLARET
THE
COONAWARRA ESTATE
The vineyard and the old stone
cellars are in the care of dedicated
men who have retained many ojf
the traditional harul-methods ia
carefully producing Australia’s
finest table wines.
Each bottle is marked with its
vintage year and carries a back
label clearly showing where the
Estate is located.
COONAWARRA ESTATE* CLARET W
made from the original Shiraz
(Hermitage) vineyard.
COONAWARRA ESTATE CABERNET
is vintaged from 70 acres of tliie
rare Cabernet Sauvignon.
COONAWARRA ESTATE RIESLING
comes from a new vineyard of
Rhine Riesling.
*“Estate” (as the word “Chateau” in France ) is used to
distinguish the wine as being the genuine product of the
winegrowers' own vineyard.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors: S. WYNN & CO.PTY.LTD.
HELP
LEGACY
all the year
round
dark as in the photograph. The eyes, far
from being intense and moody, are a
sweet grey. Her features are all pretty.
Her complexion is fair. Her manner is
shy.
I learned as we sat in a nearby cafe
for a truly lousy cup of coffee that she
is married to an Italian immigrant who is
a design draughtsman, and she is Mrs
Norma Puccinelli. Their home is at Kil-
syth, at the foot of the Dandenongs, in a
cottage among gums on the Mt Dande-
nong road. She has a studio there with
an entrance 17 ft. high.
University at Perugia
Ohe loves Italy, and will return there
next year for a while, her husband fol-
lowing. He owns still a block of land
with olive trees on the west coast, not
far from Pisa. In 1956, when she was
28, she travelled to Italy and lived with
a family in Perugia. She went to the
university for foreigners there, and
learned Italian well. On that visit she
travelled in Spain, France and Yugo-
slavia, and also lived and worked in
Rome.
Last year, when her interest in bronze
had developed, she was back in Italy,
the only woman sculptor casting at the
Fonderia D’Arte Battaglia in Milan. The
bronzes she showed at Gallery A were
cast in Milan. It cost her less to ship
the lot from Italy to Australia than to
have it taken from Kilsyth to South
Yarra for the show.
Norma Redpath was born at Canter-
bury, Melbourne, the daughter of a de-
signer of ceramics. She was interested
in expressing herself in art-work as a
child, and remembers that when quite
young she modelled, drew and painted.
At 15, she went to the Swinburne Tech-
nical College, where she took painting.
When she realised that painting was not
going to give her the sort of creative
experience she wanted, she moved to
the sculpture class at the Royal Mel-
bourne Institute of Technology.
Her earlier work was in the carving
of wood and stone, and in clay. By 1955
she had worthwhile private commissions.
In 1958, the year she returned to Aus-
tralia, she was commissioned to do a
13 ft. by 8 ft. mural for Melbourne
University’s new Baillieu Library.
She did it in carved silky oak, colored
with wax tempera. In 1961, with a plaster
work 7 ft. high, “Dawn Figure,” she
won what was described as Australia’s
first national sculpture competition, or-
ganised by the Murray River town of
Mildura. In 1961 also she won an Italian
Government scholarship, and the Althea
Dyason bequest grant from the National
Gallery of NSW. She is represented in
the National Gallery of Victoria, the
Newcastle State Gallery, and the Western
Australian Gallery, and in private col-
lections in Australia, Italy and America.
The Gallery A show was her first one-
man exhibition. She has not shown in
Sydney, but hopes to do this when she
gets back from her next Italian visit.
Her prices for a major work range
up around £SOOO. She sold one of the
Gallery A exhibits for £3OOO to a pas-
toralist’s wife, who plans to put the piece
up in her garden, when it is cast. The
prices are based on the quality, and the
time it takes to complete bronze sculp-
tures.
Australia has no suitable foundry, and
no body of trained craftsmen to take
much of the work-load from the creative
artist. In Italy, Miss Redpath explains,
a sculptor in bronze can keep up a large,
steady output; but here, it’s impossible.
One dream is to set up a foundry here
herself.
Norma Redpath could be called any-
thing in the range of labels from semi-
abstract to abstract, but winces at the
idea of a tag. She creates for outdoors,
and the idea of size is limited only by
the possibilities of casting and moving,
so long as the balances of tension, weight,
texture and color are right. One of her
exhibits at South Yarra, still in plaster,
called “Desert Arch,” is 15 ft. long and
8 ft. high.
She likes bronze for its combination
of delicacy and power. She has a special
liking for a light gold color, but uses
many tonings, down to black. Her sur-
faces vary from primitive raggedness to
shining smoothness. She likes light to
play on the surface, through holes in the
form, and on the varied surfaces exposed
within the form. She is attracted by the
idea of sculpture that a person can walk
through.
To make a major sculpture takes up
to a year. She does many drawings. In
her mind, as she turns over an idea, she
assembles, pulls apart and reassembles
fragments of form from a sort of inner
storehouse. The titles of her pieces, often
in Italian, are usually invented after-
wards.
Her sculpture is a compulsion. She
couldn’t live without it. She’s in the studio
up to 18 hours a day when hard at it.
Her husband, she says, is “very under-
standing.”
Looking to the future, she can see
sculpture taking on the standing in Aus-
tralian art that the painters have cap-
tured at present. The light is so right, she
feels, for outdoor sculpture to be an in-
creasing part of Australian consciousness.
Patrons will continue to be private indi-
viduals and companies, but there is hope
that even officialdom might relent. In
Melbourne, some people have a long
way to go. The City Council, for ex-
ample, won’t let the Botanic Gardens be
used for an outdoor show such as is
common in Europe.
As for Melbourne following the ex-
ample of Spoleto, in Italy, in allowing
the whole town to be decked with modern
sculpture, streets, buildings, parks and
all, as a special display that’s just not
conceivable yet.


'••'■'ll
™ ~ N flk I\\
v IS i M r
»V Y
SWIJINJiv
I « *|J >: s
h SBII NJr
x
’Kit
*:><V
' ■
*, '« : ;
■■■■■ - - -
g! m
«' ?
if it''
’■ '< • ■
i r*>- -
*rf '■■
iii
\ •*
?¥ :&?
■* *
.! --
: ! .
tit
c-> '
m
sieia woift/ e/eyanc& aim/'ft' you/ aft
-
JL
AUSTRALIA’S NEWEST FINEST HOTEL
Fully air-conditioned rooms and suites . . .
spacious restaurants, lounges, cocktail bars . . .
arcades of over 200 shops . . . Australia’s
largest hotel underground car park, for 450
cars, plus Menzies 24-hour room service.
Truly, Menzies Sydney is a new world of
sophistication and comfort.
FOR INSTANT TELETYPE RESER-
VATIONS just ring the FEDERAL
HOTEL nearest you:
Brisbane: Lennons, 32 0131; Toowoomba:
Lennons, 2 2433. Melbourne: Menzies,
601581; Savoy Plaza, 62 4141; Hotel Federal,
62 3721. Sydney: Hampton Court, 31 7081;
New Menzies, 2 0232. Hobart: Wrest Point
Riviera, 5 1021. Or book through any travel
agent.
MENZIES SYDNEY
14 Carrington Street. Cable Address: Menzotel, Sydney. Telex No. 20-443
SYDNEY
Comfort beckons you in rooms or
suites tastefully furnished, supremely
comfortable. Dial your own individ-
ually-controlled temperature... dial
piped music or news.
Newest addition to
Across the Nation


Five, Six, Pick Up Sticks
Innisfail has a festival
By LARRY FOLEY
T\he most-photographed object in
North Queensland, Innisfail folk
claim, is their Sugar Pioneers’
Memorial. It stands on a grassy bank in
the middle of the town where the two
arms of the Johnstone River join, about
four miles from the mouth.
On a tall, four-sided pedestal in the
centre of an octagonal pool stands a life-
sized canecutter. He is barefoot, clad
only in shorts and battered hat. With his
left arm he has seized and holds against
his body a bundle of growing cane. In
his right hand, half-raised about to swoop
and cut, he holds his broad-bladed cane-
knife. On each side of the pedestal water
spouts from a replica of the familiar
Australian canvas waterbag.
Around the monument is a metal
fence. The railings represent the tram-
lines of the canefields and the uprights
are banded and tapered, faithfully rep-
resenting stalks of sugarcane. Attached
to the fence are replicas of the cane-
cutter’s tools of trade: knife, sharpening
file and waterbag —' all he ever needed
for the job. The statue was sculptured in
Carrara, Italy, in local marble. It is
representational art at its most explicit.
Having watched canies at work, and
passed them cycling wearily home at the
end of the day, blackened like coalminers
from the burnt cane, I found the monu-
ment beautiful and moving. The knotted
muscles of the canecutter spell strength,
the well-defined ribs exertion, and there
are grace, dignity and resolution in the
bowed head, the downcast eyes and the
firm jaw. He was erected to the memory
of the sugar pioneers of the district of
1880.
But he could step down from his
pedestal and take his place with the team
in the nearest field today; in 80-odd
years he has not changed.
However, his kind is destined to fade
away. The Innisfail statue will, in years
to come, acquire historical significance
and a certain quaintness, like those
statues of generals on chargers. The mes-
sage of another local work of art which
next caught my eye was unmistakable.
This was a semi-abstract painting by town
booster Jack Fossey, deputy shire clerk
and sparetime painter. In fierce orange
tones, redolent of both the hot sun and
the region’s rich volcanic soil, it shows
a line of human figures, simply outlined,
vanishing one by one into the maw of
a machine. It is entitled Finito.
In Innisfail, as indeed throughout
North Queensland, there is an awareness
that the manual canecutter’s days are
numbered. The current sugar boom is
delaying the inevitable. Increased produc-
tion next year will ensure work for
probably as many cutters as worked this
season, according to Innisfail District
Canegrowers’ Executive secretary John
Connelly.
This year 1062 cutters worked on the
district’s 607 cane farms about 100
fewer cutters than in the previous year
and 24 mechanical harvesters were
in use. Next year, said Connelly, there
would probably be another 20 machines
not enough to displace the manual
cutters in view of the expected increase
in the size of the crop.
Innisfail (pop. 7000) is built on sugar-
cane (although it also has timber, fishing,
dairying, fruit-farming and, in the hinter-
land, tin), being the centre of a lush
area packed with canefields which keep
three district mills going and also supply
two mills in adjoining districts; and dur-
ing the season, the cutter is clearly king.
Of the 1062 cutters this season, 177
were of Australian or British origin, 231
Yugoslav (usually spelt and pronounced
with a J in Innisfail), 279 Italian, 144
Greek, 175 Spanish, 19 Maltese, 12
German, nine Hungarian, four Dutch,
four Polish, two Austrian, two Portuguese
and one Swedish. Innisfail folk are proud
not only of the fact that Innisfail takes
all kinds but that all live in harmony.
True, the Serbs and Croats have been at
each other lately, and a man was knifed.
But such strife is unusual.
There was certainly no sign of under-
currents when I was there for the big
day of Innisfail’s annual sugar festival.
The festival itself is an expression of an
extraordinarily well-developed community
spirit. The festival lasts ten days and is
celebrated with some of the overtones
of fervor and thanksgiving that mark
the harvest festivals of older European
communities.
There is something for everybody: an
arts ball, open air concert, celebrity con-
cert (the ABC sends somebody), boxing,
a long-distance swim, parades and dis-
plays, aquatic sports, dancing in the
streets, a bushwhackers’ ball to which
pensioners are admitted free, an art con-
test for children (which this year drew
651 entries, a remarkable response for
a small community) and one for adults
(120 exhibits by over 40 local artists),
and so on.
The big day is the Saturday towards
the end of the festival. This is Free
Family Day and it epitomises the spirit
of the whole festival, which is non-
profit-making. All prizes and labor are
donated by local tradesmen, firms, organi-
sations and private citizens all, that
is, except the work of the police, who
expect payment for turning up to handle
crowds and traffic.
On Free Family Day the townsfolk
gather at the richly-turfed Pease Park
Showground on the edge of town. Strenu-
ous and unusual contests for men,
women and children are the order of the
day. Most of these events are directly
related to the canefields.
Women, for example, throw a stalk of
cane. It is a bit like broom-throwing. An
18-inch bunch of fronds, neatly trimmed,
is left on the top of the stalk, to give
it a broom-like or arrow effect. The stalk
has to be launched from inside a roped
enclosure, but otherwise there are no
rules for style or technique.
Some took a run and threw it like a
javelin, some swung it two-handed like
a golf-club and let fly. All had to throw
into the wind, and because the wind
tended to catch the tasselled end and blow
the missile off course, it seemed to me
that the javelin-style should be the most
effective, since it promised the least wind
resistance.
T was wrong. A pretty Italian-looking
A wench, barefooted, in a red dress, who
must have done it before, merely picked
up the missile by the fronds, swung it
dangerously round and round her head
a few times, let fly and won by several
feet.
The most popular contest for ladies
was kicking the coconut. The coconuts
were lacquered in bright colors. The
ladies prudently donned shoes. The cane-
throwing winner (who alone spurned
shoes) looked the likely winner of this
event, too, until the last moment when
her coconut (in colors that matched her
dress) zigged when it should have zagged
and missed the goal.
Wheel-barrow racing is really for men,
as the men promptly demonstrated. Two-
man teams raced around the J-mile peri-
meter track. Although it was gravel, they
all raced barefooted. Tough guys. The


horses in the trotting events on the same
track wore shoes, after all.
Another secret I was let into during
the course of the afternoon was how to
climb the greasy pole. New Australians
have dominated this event, having learned
through generations of greasy pole climb-
ing in Europe, where the event is tradi-
tional, that it is teamwork, not indi-
vidualism, that wins.
Two important events concerned
throwing a 100-lb bag of sugar, one for
height, the other for distance. These
events no longer have relevance to the
sugar industry, manual loading having
given way to bulk handling. In the old
days men lumped these 100-lb loads for
a living, from wharf to ship. There were
then, naturally, many strong men around
who could toss the heavy bag with ease,
and with pride in their strength. Today
it would be natural to expect some fal-
ling-away in standards and a dwindling
of interest in the art now that it lives on
only as a sporting event. Surprisingly,
however, there was a big field of starters,
and in the height toss the winner equalled
the record of eight feet three inches.
Here the technique was to raise the
bag to chest height, then above the head,
balance it on the head while getting set,
with a good grip, then take a couple of
swift steps towards the cross-bar and
heave the bag up and over. Short men
were at a tremendous disadvantage. The
winner was a lean, crew-cut giant, Frank
Darveniza, 23, standing 6.3 and weighing
13.10, who worked a cane farm at
South Johnstone with his five brothers.
From the contemptuous ease with which
he had tossed the heavy bag over in each
round, Darveniza had looked the win-
ner all through.
nnHESE events were mere preliminaries
A for the big event of the day: the in-
dividual cane-loading contest. Cane-work-
ers develop great pride in their job. It
looks a simple (not easy) job, but there
is more to it than meets the eye. The
essence of the job is not to cut and lay
the stuff low, but to get it to the mill
without delay. Speed is called for not
only in cutting but also in loading. And
loading is not simply a matter of piling
it on the truck; it must be piled in such
a way that it does not fall off as the
truck sways and rattles in the long trains
over the miles of bumpy tramlines to
the mill.
Many canies work in teams and the
best of them develop great team spirit.
They acquire reputations, as in the world
of sport. And as in all team sports, there
are outstanding individuals. Each mill
area has its crack teams and its gun
cutters. These are the ones chosen
if necessary by on-the-spot elimination
contests in the field are put up
by their team-mates and local supporters
to represent their mill area in the cane-
loading contests. Intense inter-area rivalry
develops and the betting is big and
keen.
Earlier I had noticed a very tall, dark,
Chesty Bond type (he actually was in
a white singlet), handsome in the black-
browed Victor Mature way, moving re-
gally through the crowd, with an ex-
tremely pretty young woman in blue
sunglasses, with dark hair and the high
cheekbones of Middle Europe, at his
side. I saw him several times, here and
there, always in the centre of a group of
obvious admirers, and was reminded of
Sugar Ray Robinson in Europe at the
height of his fame, a king amongst his
courtiers.
The big fellow seemed to accept adula-
tion as his due, but with modesty, not
arrogance. I picked him as a starter in
the big event, and sure enough, when the
cane-loading contest started, there he
was, changed into khaki shorts, shirt and
a skullcap and, judging by the cries from
the crowd, the favorite. His name was
Ivan Paic. “A mighty man,” a bystander
told me. “He’s a Jugoslav. Came to
Australia after the revolution. If he went
back now they’d shoot him.”
The field is restricted to six. Paic’s
five rivals included last year’s winner,
Don Soley, of Goondi. Each had to load
three and one-third tons of cane on to
the standard open-sided flat-bed cane
truck.
From the word go the competitors
worked in a kind of frenzy, stooping,
gathering, trotting, heaving, dumping,
adjusting the stray sticks, then dashing
back for more, and now and then
sparing a split-second for a glance around
to see how their rivals’ loads were
mounting.
It was not easy to tell who was leading.
One truckload might soon be a foot or
two higher than another, but that could
mean simply that its loader was taking
the “short” cane first. In this case, short
refers to distance, not length of stalk.
Short cane is that nearest the truck. A
loader may choose to load this close-in
cane first. But that means he has the long
haul ahead a longer run there and
back for each armful. Judgment of pace
is called for, as in long-distance running.
Another important factor is the in-
creasing height of the truckload. The
close-in cane can be scooped up and
loaded under-arm or, as the canies say,
“babied” on to the truck.
Paic, with his fans going wild with
excitement, finished first. Now, cane-
loading is a test of not only speed but
of skill.
Judging was a careful process. While
the judges inspected each man’s work,
Paic moved restlessly through the crowd,
accepting pats on his grimy, sweat-soaked
back, gasping for breath. He stripped
off his shirt, and the young lady in blue
sunglasses rubbed him down lovingly
with a blue towel. It was like grooming a
stallion.
Then the results were announced.
Howls of dismay and derision arose from
Paic’s supporters. Paic shrugged. He had
been awarded second place. He had got
100 points for finishing first, 17 points
for neatness, and had been docked ten
points for left cane.
The winner, small, wiry Antonio Ceci-
liani, 22, who came to Australia from
Italy four years ago, had got 97 points
for finishing in 18 mins. 51 secs. (15
seconds behind Paic), and 14 points for
neatness, but had picked up every stick
and so lost no further points. This gave
him a total of 111 points to Paic’s 107.
Don Soley came third, with a total of
94 points. Like Paic, he had lost 10
points for left cane, and had got 10
points for neatness; he had finished in
19 mins. 4 secs., giving him 94 points.
While watching this extraordinarily
exciting contest, an old nursery rhyme
had kept running through my mind:
“. . . five, six, pick up sticks, seven, eight,
lay them straight ...”
But plainly there was more to cane-
loading than that. And, passing the Mem-
orial on my way out of town later, it
looked so right in marble; it made him
eternally clean and cool and so made
up a little for what the living flesh of
those he symbolised had always endured.


IBM CUSTOMER SERVICE
• start
WITHOUT FAIL
" :F'
'
V ■
I ! t
~..,
. . . the man who makes this possible
.. . who protects you from unscheduled maintenance
is the IBM Customer Engineer. He is a thoroughly
trained specialist. He is a trouble shooter and
business man combined. His training enables him to spot trouble
before it starts ... to understand the special nature
your business and to see to it, through a program of protective
maintenance, that you get more data processing per pound.
The Customer Engineer is your guarantee when you invest in IBM
Data Processing Equipment
IBM In all principal cities of Australia and New Zealand.


SCIENCE AND MEDICINE
What Does Fluoride Do?
The case for adding fluoride to pub-
lic water supplies that are low in
natural fluoride has so far been
empirical. Compared with low-fluoride
areas, dental decay is less by a half, or
more, in children brought up in areas
where the amount of natural fluoride in
water supplies is close to the level—one
part per million —which it is now recom-
mended should be achieved by adding
extra fluoride where necessary. It has
also been known mainly from the
United States —that added fluoride pro-
duces a similar effect; and, from natural
fluoride areas, that part of the benefit
persists into middle age. But it has not
been known in what way fluoride pro-
tects teeth.
Dr J. H. Fremlin, of the Department
of Physics in Birmingham University,
England, has been doing experiments for
some years in an endeavor to find the
answer and, in a number of “The
Times Science Review”, he discusses the
results that he and a colleague have
obtained. There have been two main
ideas that they have been able, to some
extent, to test. One of these is that fluoride
acts primarily through the enamel of
teeth, whose composition is modified in
such a way that the enamel is made less
soluble in dilute acid. A second idea is
that fluoride acts from the other side by
inhibiting the production of acid by
bacteria in the layer known as the “bac-
terial plaque” which adjoins the enamel
and which is always present except for a
few minutes after a hard brush. A third
idea which is more difficult to test
is that fluoride acts in some way through
the cells that lay down enamel in a
developing tooth.
The soft tissues of animals, including
man, commonly contain between two
parts and 15 parts per million, dry
weight, of fluorine, and bones and teeth
contain more. The cells of bacteria
have a higher rate of metabolism, and
Professor G. N. Jenkins, at Newcastle-
upon-Tyne, has shown that the rate at
which they produce lactic acid is re-
duced by the presence of fluorine, in
the form of fluoride, in the proportion
of 10 parts per million or rather less;
but that fluoride at one part per million
is without measurable effect. In order
that the bacterial theory of dental pro-
tection should stand up, it has to be
shown that the concentration of fluoride
in the “bacterial plaque” may be higher
than that in drinking water.
Until the research now described, this
has been an objection to the bacterial
theory. On the other hand, the idea that
fluoride acts through the enamel has also
been open to objections. One of them
is based on the view that, when enamel
is attacked by acid, it is the organic not
the mineral fraction of the enamel that
is first damaged, whereas it is the mineral
fraction whose composition is changed
when more fluoride is available. A second
objection is that, at the most, not more
than one molecule out of nine or 10 in
the mineral fraction of enamel is modi-
fied; and this does not seem enough to
affect the solubility of the whole in acid.
The Birmingham experiments, being
done by physicists, have concentrated on
showing by measurement whether either
or both of these theories is possible. They
have been based on the use of small
amounts of a radioactive tracer
fluorine 18 to follow what happens to
ordinary non-radioactive fluoride.
The aim, in relation to the enamel
theory, has been to discover whether
there may be more fluoride in the sur-
face layer of enamel than merely aver-
age figures suggest. Experiments in the
United States using ordinary chemi-
cal methods had shown already that
the outer two-thousandths of an inch
contained somewhat more fluoride than
the main bulk of enamel. Using fluorine
18 as a tracer, Dr J. N. Kudahl, work-
ing with Dr Fremlin, has made pre-
liminary measurements on thicknesses of
enamel (from the outside) only one-
fiftieth as great. He has found no sign
of an increase in the proportion of
fluoride. But on the scale of atoms and
molecules a thickness of even 1/25,000th
of an inch is still big, and it remains
possible, though perhaps less likely, that
the literal surface layer may be more
strongly guarded with fluoride.
Earlier experiments by Dr Fremlin
had shown not only that fluoride is
readily taken up by sound enamel from
a solution in water, but also that there
is a rapid interchange between dissolved
fluoride outside the tooth and fluoride
already in the enamel. All this suggests
that the first line of defence may con-
sist in the building up in the bacterial
plaque of a store of fluoride possibly
in a form that it is little soluble, if at all,
until acid has begun to be produced.
Acid would then dissolve it; and the
fluoride now in a form that bacteria
could assimilate would reduce their rate
of production of acid.
If this were the whole story, the effect
of fluoride in a water supply would show
itself quickly. In practice, if fluoride is
to produce its full effect in reducing
dental decay it must be present in the
water supply from the time when the
teeth of children begin to calcify. So it
seems that an effect on the teeth them-
selves must be a necessary preliminary
even though the main defence, later,
may be through an inhibiting effect on
bacteria.
The possibility that at higher con-
centrations fluoride may also have an
inhibiting effect on body cells cannot be
excluded. But in terms of known clinical
effects the first to appear, apart from a
slight mottling of teeth in some children,
are due to changes in bone. In an under-
nourished population, living in a hot
climate so drinking more water
changes serious enough to attract atten-
tion may be brought about at a level
of fluoride in drinking water some
seven times that adopted for fluoridation
of public supplies. Ideally, there should
be a maximum as well as an optimum
level; and in the United States there is.
(“THE TIMES”, LONDON.)


iiMi.
Si MMffM
Hi
HYLAND
the 120-year
search
for a great
Australian
whisky
/ w/
iiiill!
• il!
m
Vl»
llllll."!;
lIIIIIIIMM
We at Penfolds have always believed that Australia
can produce wines and spirits as fine as any in the
world. Ever since the days of the founder, Dr. Rawson
Penfold and his son-in-law, Thomas Francis Hyland, we
have worked towards this end.
And every year it becomes plainer—Australia is
fast becoming one of the world’s great wine producing
countries.
We have always believed Australia could make a
great whisky, too. A proud, individual whisky—-as unique
and inimitable as our greatest wines. But in 120 years
we never found such a whisky—until now.
So, for the first time in more than a century of
search and trial, we are offering a smooth, mellow, subtly
blended whisky. One that our great forefathers would
have tasted with approval, so, in their memory we have
ventured to name it Hyland.
To us, this Christmas is rather special; and to you,
too. You can offer this great whisky with pride and
confidence. Hyland is genial, courteous whisky. Clean
to the taste, warming and rewarding as it goes down, it
takes ice without losing flavour. You will enjoy Hyland
•—the smooth, individual taste, the gentle warmth beneath
the suave exterior. This Christmas . . . give, receive,
enjoy Hyland.
HYLAND’S unique taste is superb on the rocks or
with soda—and blends perfectly in your favourite festive
drinks.
Thomas Francis Hyland joined the
House of Penfolds in 1862. From 1844
Penfolcfs grew from one small vineyard
to the undisputed leader of the
Australian wine industry. Hyland whisky
is named for Thomas Francis Hyland.
HYLAND
the great
Australian
WHISKY


Around Melbourne
A LONG WORD FOR TWO JAM TINS
A ccording to Labor leader John
Galbally in the Legislative
Council, two of the queries in a
questionnaire used in scientology are
whether one has practised cannibal-
ism or had incestuous sexual relations.
No doubt the correct answer to these
is an astonished: “Why! Doesn’t
everybody!” However, my full name
being Oedipus Molochus Higinbo-
tham, I approach the field with cau-
tion. I have always found the very
name of scientology unusual, perhaps
because both halves of the word mean
much the same thing.
Mr Kevin Anderson, QC, 51, a
former Xaverian, has been ordered by
the Government to conduct a full
public inquiry into scientology as a
result of Mr Galbally’s accusations.
We seem to be more inquired into
these days than “the meaning of
truth” or the whereabouts of hus-
bands.
The problem in such an inquiry is
that people who feel they have made
Charlies of themselves by going in
for scientology may not care or dare
to appear. But Mr Galbally has said
he will speak if called on, and that
should give entertainment. The
scientologists themselves declare they
are jubilant at the inquiry, and have
strung a banner across their beige
and grey premises, which are across
Spring Street from Parliament House,
to say so. . At the same time their
association, the Hubbard Association
of Scientologists International, has
bunged a writ in on the owners of
“Truth and Sportsman”, inquiry or
not.
I called at the scientology
"" office and inquired for a 6s. 6d.
work by the founder of scientology,
Lafayette Ron Hubbard, the other
day, I observed a small wall-box say-
ing that any message left there would
get a reply from “Ron”.
In the council debate we heard an
example of Ron’s epistolary style. A
certain Melbourne mug, according to
Mr Galbally, paid £2500 to the scien-
tologists and managed to retrieve
£l5OO of it. Ron’s letter to him read:
“Dear Phil You be good or we
won’t give you any more auditing
ever”. Them it ended: “You can
have ten GPMS partially run without
dying”. “Auditing” is the process of
hearing and guiding “PRE-CLEARS”;
and now you are asking what GPMS
are, are you not? I dunno.
Mr Galbally's charge against
scientology is simple. He said it was
an evil and rapacious piece of char-
latanry dangerous to the body and
minds of young and old. Health
Minister Mack agreed that scientology
was operated by an evil man. He
could not see, however, that the
Government had failed to do what
could have been done in view of the
difficulties, etc. He pointed out that
some of the people working in scien-
tology were probably sincere and
meant no harm.
"M R Galbally has a privte bill ready
to prevent the organisation from
charging fees, particularly for its so-
called lie-detector or “electroencepha-
loneuromentimpograph”, which is how
Hansard spells it, if not exactly how
John Galbally said it. However it is
spelt, it can be made. Mr Galbally
said, with two jam tins, a piece of
wire and a battery. His tone implied
that the jam should be raspberry.
A fascinating question raised in the
House was whether founder Lafay-
ette Ron Hubbard is a total nut. Mr
Galbally quoted the opinion of Ron’s
third wife that he was, when she knew
him, a “paranoid schizophrenic”.
Outside the House, of course, one
cannot form a fair opinion. Women
say such things.
In England earlier this year, it may
or may not be relevant to recall, a
journalist of the Melbourne “Sun”
interviewed Ron, who lives in the UK.
Among Mr Hubbard’s claims was that
he had been in Australia in the last
war as an American Navy lieutenant,
and that in 1941-42 he was “the only
anti-aircraft battery in Australia”.
Those who remember our state of
equipment at that time may well
believe it. He told the “Sun” that
when, he left Australia the gap in the
forces was so marked that he had to
be replaced with “a captain, a couple
of commanders and 15 junior offi-
cers”. Any lieutenant will agree that
that makes sense.
Mr Galbally said that Scientology
claims to be the only method of cur-
ing radiation burns. My 6s. 6d. work
limits itself on its last page to advi-
sing a system of laying on of hands
to treat “a burn or bruise or even
sprains of backs” and later mentions
“sprains, burns, broken bones, head-
aches and colds”.
Much more charming is the para-
graph on page nine, in a section
on the difficulties of getting on in life:
“How often have we seen the young
stenographer who couldn’t spell ‘cat’
suddenly soar, with her typing fingers
all thumbs, to the post of executive
secretary to the boss, wherein, while
she can't spell ‘cat’ any better she can
certainly spell rise and rise again and
perhaps even ‘supper club’ or ‘dia-
mond necklace’.” The trouble is
that all the executive secretaries I
know can spell cat suddenly.
For many people the disturbing
thing is not only the charge that gul-
lible or even mentally unstable people
have been taken in. The inquiry will
find whether that is so. What is
alarming is the confession by Mr
Mack that, scientology aside, our
Health Act is almost useless in check-
ing many medical quackeries. The
chairman of the Mental Hygiene
Authority, Dr Dax, and the chairman
of the Health Commission, Dr Bren-
nan, are both anxious about this, but
no legislation for closing the gaps is
ready. With scientology, if the inquiry
should find against it, it would be
possible, Mr Mack says, to make the
electro-whatsits illegal, as has been
done in the USA. That may yet be
the Government’s first move. Ron
wouldn’t like it.
HIGINBOTHAM


illll
mmm
m
mm
ms
i "p;
®*s
:
H
iigl|§|
u
:.
&WMsm
mmm
:' : *; ;: ;': : : : :>' : - : X: : : : : :;i;
;S?S
K : %
x -
xX:;X;:-: : :y/XxXy^>;;X:: ; : v. :: xx
illlillpl
»i!lllli!llllll«iii
ilillllil
Ss*"/
%
:
w
m
■
a stron
right
arm
Peace is our prayer, our rightful hope. Yet, if faced with aggression the strength
of our industries is the strong arm of our defences. In peace, as in war, the
Dunlop Industrial Products Division supplies strategic products for Australia's
Armed Services and those establishments that must prepare for battle.
At Woomera a guided missile wings its way. At sea, a destroyer cleaves the waves on
anti-sub. practice. In a research laboratory, tests are made on equipment for use in tropical
regions. From collapsible containers to tiny grommets, in a thousand ways— our industrial
products and accessories, ail part of our daily output, are on defence duty. Dunlop products
get on with the job of defence —any job they’re fashioned for!
the more you use rubber, the more you need
DUNLOP
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS DIVISION
41 !•


LIQUEURS
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
fnl!
MhafffgMl
CHERRi
The
perfect pair
for
perfect
entertaining
ULOV
.Vodka
I
nuu
OVERSEAS
The Dream
of Negro
Equality
Hardly a dent in
segregationism ...
By CRANE CHANTRY
One thing dawned upon me as a
result of a first visit to the
American Deep South: the old
segregationist policy of the ruling whites
has hardly been dented by the pressure
from the Federal authorities. Whether
the late President Kennedy’s Civil
Rights Bill will alter this situation is
another matter. But in Jackson, Missis-
sippi, for example, the affluent white
quarters of the town are today open
to Negroes only in so far as the latter
are an economic advantage as buyers
in the shops, as hotel servants, and in
other working capacities. The rigorous
barrier is raised against any mingling
that could be called social. White-pat-
ronised snack-bars, restaurants and cine-
mas are barred to Negro customers.
Many shops, though they sell to Negroes,
prohibit them from using the lavatory or
from trying on garments! Even the pub-
lic parks and swimming pools are still
“for whites only”. Vestiges of conces-
sions were made, recently, when the town
buses took Negro passengers and the
public libraries were opened to Negro
readers.
The Negro v stirrings against their sub-
ordination in Mississippi erupted into
street demonstrations last May under a
forceful leader, Medgar Evers. He was
murdered on June 12. Since then the
Negro leadership in Mississippi has faced
a granite-wall of police pressure which
prevents outdoor demonstrations and
picketing. These are likely to draw first
tear-gas, then truncheon charges. The
Mississippi authorities though they
have not banned the Negro militant or-
ganisations oppose and harry them.
They do so not in the name of Segrega-
tion this would facilitate Federal inter-
vention but on various grounds which
amount to “danger of breach of the
peace,” such as marching or distributing
leaflets without a permit or disobeying
a police officer. These are essentially
pretexts. What the Mississippi authorities
really detest is the Negro bid for equality
of treatment.
But the direct way, the royal road to
Negro emancipation, by constitutional
means in Mississippi, should be by the
democratic vote. For 42 per cent of the
population are black. But this great po-
tential strength of the Negroes, through
the franchise, raises huge white resis-
tance based partly on fear of victimisa-
tion of whites in case, for example, a
Negro Governor should be elected. Fear
is one motive. Reluctance to lose cheap
labor and domestic servants, which
would happen if the Negroes’ status were
transformed, is another. Canton, in Madi-
son County, which I visited just before
the State Governorship elections recently,
was humming with white resentment
against Negro voters despite the fact
that less than a thousand of them were
registered out of 12,000 Negroes of
voting age. (Not only is a poll-tax require-
ment used to discourage registration but
complicated questions on the State Con-
stitution have to be answered to the satis-
faction of a white Registration Officer.)
In spite of all this a white shopkeeper
in Canton had, a few days before, sprayed
buckshot into a group of young Negroes
known to have been registered; several
of. them were hospitalised. The prospect
of the Negroes’ federally recognised right
to the franchise being honored in Missis-
sippi without Federal intervention is thus
as remote as the possibility of school de-
segregation or of the opening of white-
patronised restaurants and cinemas to
black people short of drastic action from
Washington.
When justice is slow
T>ut while the US Constitution is on the
side of the Negro, and although the
Federal Courts do usually pronounce in
his favor when he tries to secure his
voting rights or to breach school seg-
regation, or (conceivably) to invoke the
14th Amendment after a policeman has
arrested him for demonstrating yet
the burden of going to court rests on the
individual Negro, who lives under a
white Government that is prepared to use
innumerable weapons of power and inti-
midation to defeat and deter him from
litigation. Negroes in State Government
service are obviously vulnerable. Federal
District Courts delay and spin-out pro-
ceedings. The solitary Negro, James
Meredith, had to wage a year’s battle, and
appeal from the District Court to the
Federal Circuit Court, a higher level one,
before he could enter Mississippi Uni-
versity backed by 30,000 troops and 600
Federal marshals. Negroes invoking the
14th Amendment against police brutality
or arrest are mulcted of crippling sums
in bail.
It is because of this snail’s pace of
advance through existing legal processes
that the Federal initiatives provided for


It takes ten thousand roses, gathered ty moonlight in
the rose-fields of Bulgaria, together with Jasmine from
precious plants first imported from Turkey by the Duke
of Tuscany, to make one flask of the essence o£
“L’Aimant” i— the rare and exquisite perfume imported
from France by Coty. No wonder beautiful women all
over the world treasure it and make it their signature.?
m
ffi
m
M.
irf
U
W.
/l?
hX
/
7*
V
/
at
W:
c>
//
/
/
r
«
/
< ;
•sJ
5k
2
JL]
S'
=£
5) \
MS
t I
V*
r
hz
r
w
X
r-V
I x^-
; \ j\
•.::. •!:
V
*c<sty
L
Vgwww
a
n
in the late President’s Civil Rights
Bill are so important. If the Bill passes,
the Federal Attorney-General will him-
self be able to bring, and pay for, suits
to enforce Negro pupils’ entry into white
schools. He will also be able to take the
initiative against segregated hotels, eating-
places and cinemas, though only if an
aggrieved Negro cannot afford the suit
financially or fears victimisation. On
registration of voters various unreason-
able qualifications are to be prohibited
by the Bill, and the Federal referees, al-
ready empowered to watch registration,
are to get more power. But many sub-
terfuges remain open to the State authori-
ties and a long war of attrition seems to
lie ahead in States like Mississippi on the
issue of blocking the Negro vote, which
for most of the whites seems to be a
question of their own survival or down-
fall.
The Northern problem
Tn Northern cities like Chicago it
A seemed to me that an almost equal
but in some ways more complex effort at
mass-education will be required if the
grievances of the Negro and his “second
class” position are to be ended. There
is not in the North a fanaticism, a mys-
tique of white mastery, backed by the
State, as in the South, but there are in-
grained feelings that the Negroes are an
inferior or undesirable group. Negroes
are both short of housing and get too
many of the worst dwellings because so
many white proprietors won’t let or sell
to them. They get too few of the skilled,
well-paid industrial jobs because unions
are in white hands and are nepotistic. The
concentrations of Negro population, re-
sulting from housing discrimination, are
situated great distances from outlying
factory zones, and this increases Negro
unemployment. Most significant, the
Negro in Chicago feels that the root of
his trouble is in the inferiority of his
schools, which are in practice almost as
segregation-ridden as in the South be-
cause they are based on residence areas
that are segregated. The solution for the
“orthodox” Negro militants the Nat-
ional Association for the Advancement
of Colored Peoples, the Congress of
Racial Equality, the Urban League is
integration. White house-owners, they
say, should rent or sell to “qualified buy-
ers” without regard to creed or color.
This is sound and justified. Indeed an
Open Occupancy Law, forbidding the
denial of housing on grounds of race is
now before the Illinois State Legislature.
In regard to educational segregation in
Chicago (only 10 per cent of the city’s
children are today in racially mixed
schools) the Negro leaders urge that the
boundaries of School areas should be
re-drawn so as to promote integration.


r*j
NO LIMIT
to the pleasure
you’ll get from this
distinguished tobacco
cool-rich taste
pleasing aroma
CA'
acgo
to»
bl£' n 0
viiRV
V
PIPE OR CIGARETTE
IN 3 DISTINCT BLENDS
MILD • NUT SWEET • RUM
CAVENDISH
From Your Tobacconist
IN EXCLUSIVE "LIMP-TIN" POUCH
TIB
5/9"-
2 oz.
Sihanouk’s
Expensive
Gesture
Looking towards Peking ...
From DENNIS BLOODWORTH
in Phnom Penh
TJrince Norodom Sihanouk, of Cam-
bodia, fell silent last week after
nearly three weeks of speechmaking, dur-
ing which he renounced all American
economic and military aid to Cambodia,
described Communist China as his coun-
try’s best friend, and ordered the nation-
alisation of all export-import businesses
and banks.
As the young and energetic royal ruler
of this neutralist enclave, strategically
wedged between anti-Communist Thai-
land and South Vietnam, withdrew for
a short holiday, the American aid mis-
sions here prepared to pack up and leave
after nine years of carefully programmed
assistance that had cost Washington
£l3O million in an attempt to counter-
balance Communist-bloc influence.
Ostensibly, the Prince had been in-
censed by the activities of the rebel
Cambodian “Khmer serei” movement
across the border in South Vietnam,
which he accused the Americans of
financing.
But deeper than this lies his atavistic
fear of Thailand and South Vietnam
which would have swallowed up Cam-
bodia precisely 100 years ago had not
the French intervened.
In the modern context, the ideological
conflict that divides neutralist Phnom
Penh from the “pro-American” Govern-
ments in Saigon and Bangkok further
exacerbates their traditional rivalries.
The Americans, committed to support-
ing firmly the two neighboring anti-
Communist administrations, are auto-
matically suspected here of complicity in
conspiracies based on their countries to
“kill Cambodian independence.”
The Prince accordingly declared
that, while he was ready to retain
most of the French advisers and techni-
cians in Cambodia, he would not accept
United States aid until Washington stop-
ped propping up unfriendly Govern-
ments in Thailand and South Vietnam.
He also noted indignantly that spokes-
men in Washington and London had been
quick to throw cold water on his latest
proposal for a 14-nation Geneva con-
ference to guarantee and control Cam-
bodia’s neutrality.
The Prince emphasised that on the
other hand he had again been assured
that China would give Cambodia not
only political but also military support
if she were attacked.
There was no danger that his country
would join the Communist bloc unless
it became the victim of aggression, how-
ever.
He would welcome much-needed mili-
tary equipment and vehicles for his
30,000-strong army and could expect
offers of considerable aid from the Soviet
bloc. But he would still limit his intake
of Communist advisers to five Chinese
civilian experts at the most. Prince
Sihanouk is above all influenced by the
belief that China will inevitably dominate
this sub-continent, and he has passed
over his French-trained sons to recom-
mend as his successor 17-year-old Prince
Norodom Naradipo, who is being edu-
cated in Peking.
Neither Moscow nor Peking has so
far made any spectacular bid to move
in as the Americans move out.
Their past aid has been limited largely
to the construction of factories and spe-
cific public projects.
The Soviet Union has given Cambodia
24 anti-aircraft guns of 1937 vintage
and three MiG 17 jet fighters China has
provided no arms and has been reluctant
to grant direct financial assistance follow-
ing an early experience of the Cambodian
genius for embezzlement.
TI/leanwhile the immediate cost of
national pride is heavy. Work ceased
this week on some 20 construction pro-
jects financed with American aid, which
also generates the funds that pay 36 per
cent of Cambodia’s armed forces.
Faced with nationalisation next July,
banks have cut off credit facilities and are
calling in loans. Traders who must close
down by January 1 are cancelling most
imports, from mopeds to medicines.
There has been a rush on the banks
and the free rate of exchange of the rial
is shooting up.
Petrol, sugar, coffee and other com-
modities are rapidly disappearing from
the market. Some firms are giving notice
of mass dismissals of employees
Observers agree that the Prince’s ob-
jectives in terms of national dignity and
independence are wholly laudable but
many question whether the easy-going
Cambodians will follow him along this
stony path with the same loyalty they
have shown him in the past.


new
'C' lui'tJ.-tfr veo^le'
Who’s hard to please? Most of us—when we don’t find
exactly what we want.
For people who want to be sure that they will find
welcome, comfort and impeccable service at their
destination, we have built in Sydney a hotel in the
tradition of the great “little” hotels which one always
wants to return to. It is called The Town House.
Not really small. In its 14 floors it has 103 spacious
rooms, each with a splendid view, a thoughtfully planned
bathroom, individually controllable and silent air-
conditioning, television, radio, mood-music, refrigerated
cocktail unit.
The furnishings are modern and restrained; the
atmosphere is restful.
The Town House Restaurant will serve European-
American foods at sensible prices.
Car parking? Yes, three floors of it —complimentary
to guests.
Less tangible assets of The Town House include our
interest in every guest—our staff is dedicated to
ensuring that no one shall feel like a room number.
We open in December at Elizabeth Bay Road—a stone’s
throw from Kings Cross.
Tariffs are very reasonable.
Please write for our rate card and brochure.
THE
@2225
C>
'/xi&e
O .
ELIZABETH BAY ROAD, SYDNEY
TELEPHONES: 35-3241 SYDNEY
51-4640 MELBOURNE, 2-5055 BRISBANE
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: "WELCOMEGUEST"
TH4aTIOS
FORUM
Political
Assassinations
" A President has to expect
those things ”
By GORDON HAWKINS
Assassination has a long history
.vhich can be traced back at least
as far as an eleventh-century
Persian version ol Murder Incorporated
known as the Hashishin because of their
ritual consumption of hashish or mari-
huana. When that history comes to be
written the assassinations and attempted
assassinations of United States Presidents
will deserve a separate chapter, for they
differ in a number of respects from the
historic European patterns of dynastic
and political assassination. Not least is
the uniformly bizarre character of the
assassins and would-be assassins involved.
The first man ever to make an armed
attack on a President of the United States
was a handsome house-painter named
Richard Lawrence with a fastidious taste
in clothes, which he would change as
often as four times a day. He suffered
under the delusion that he was the right-
ful heir to the throne of England and the
United States, which he regarded as a
British possession One hundred and
twenty-eight years ago on January 30,
1835, in Washington, he fired two pistols
at Andrew Jackson, one of them almost
touching the President’s breast when he
pulled the trigger Both pistols misfired
and Jackson, who was with difficulty
restrained from beating his assailant with
his cane, went unharmed. Lawrence,
who was acquitted on the ground of in-
sanity, frequently interrupted his trial
with claims that he was not subject to
the jurisdiction of the court. “It is for
me, gentlemen,” he said to the jury, “to
pass judgment on you, not you upon
me." He died over a quarter of a century
later in a mental hospital. The American
psychiatrist Winfred Overholser, who was
superintendent of the same hospital a
century later, says that the diagnosis,
listed then as chronic monomania, would
today be paranoid schizophrenia.
In 1865, four years after Lawrence’s
death, an unsuccessful actor, John Wilkes
Booth, who had boasted to his school-
fellows that his name would descend to
posterity and “be in all the histories of
the times”, made sure of that, and
succeeded where Lawrence had failed.
With a brass-barrelled single-shot Derrin-
ger he shot Abraham Lincoln in the
back of the head. Booth’s crime is prob-


f K,
y
J4fep r
HOW TO WRITE OFFA NUMBER OF EXPORT MARKETING PROBLEMS AT ONCE
Qantas-carried exports increased by 42% last year. This figure proves dramatically that more and more exporters—
possibly some of your competitors—are using Qantas Air Cargo as the answer to their overseas marketing problems.
Why? Perhaps it’s because Qantas is the international airline that knows Australian business best . . . knows world
markets . . . and the quickest, most efficient ways of bringing them together. Then again, there are the additional and
exclusive benefits which Qantas Air Cargo offers to its clients.
FREQUENCY OF SERVICE. With its associates Qantas offers you
hundreds of tons of cargo capacity with over 100 flights a week into
and out of Australia. Through Qantas Air Cargo, you can consign
goods to anywhere in the world. There are daily flights to most major
ULTRA-MODERN JET AGE FACILITIES. The very latest cargo hand-
ling equipment has been installed so that, at the giant Sydney air
terminal alone, up to three Qantas 707 V-Jets and twelve freight
trucks can be loaded and discharged at the one time and up to 100
tons of cargo can be handled in any one day.
UP-TO-DATE AIRCRAFT. Equipped with the most modern fan-jet
engines to ensure maximum speed for air cargo payloads to all
continents, Qantas 707 V-Jets are the fastest aircraft in round-the-
world service.
QANTAS CONSULTANT SERVICE. Qantas has offices or representa-
tives all over the world ready to assist you in every possible way with
your export/import problems.
UNRIVALLED AIR CARGO EXPERIENCE. With Qantas, you can be
sure that your problems are in competent hands as the company has
had over 43 years of experience as an air cargo carrier and has intimate
knowledge of the requirements of importers, exporters and forwarders.
MORE THAN EVER, THE TREND IS TO QANTAS IN THE WORLD
TREND TO JET AGE AIR CARGO.
SPECIFY QANTAS TO YOUR
AIR CARGO AGENT, or call
QANTAS AIR CARGO YSDAY!
43 'years
OF DEPENDABLE SERVIC
mm aik mo
QAC. 128.10.7.11.3


ably the best documented in history. A
handsome, bow-legged man with black,
curly hair and “aphrodisiac eyes”, Booth
despised Lincoln for his “appearance,
his pedigree, his coarse low jokes and
anecdotes, his vulgar similes and his
frivolity” and regarded him as a tyrant.
Booth was never subjected to psychiatric
examination but his behavior at various
periods in his life, like that of his father
who was subject to fits of insanity, seems
to indicate a precarious mental balance.
“God simply made me the instrument
of his punishment” he wrote in his diary.
Sixteen years later a lawyer by the
name of Charles Guiteau who shot Presi-
dent James Garfield in the back was to
say to the jury at his trial, “Let your
verdict be that it was the Deity’s act, not
mine.” Although he entered a plea of
insanity, and impressive expert testimony
was given to that effect, the jury found
him sane and guilty. On the scaffold he
tearfully recited to the audience of two
hundred and fifty (some of whom had
paid as much as three hundred dollars
for admission) a poem he had written
that morning. It went, in part:
“1 am going to the Lordy;
1 am so glad,
l am going to the Lordy;
1 am so glad.”
He continued to talk after the black
hood was put over his head and as he
dropped through the trapdoor.
“I’m not sorry”
T eon F. Czolgosz (pronounced “Chol-
gosh”) who assassinated President
William McKinley, shooting him in the
chest and abdomen in 1901, just twenty
years after Garfield’s death, claimed no
divine inspiration. He said calmly as he
was being strapped into the electric chair,
“I killed the President because he was
the enemy of the good people—the good
working people. I am not sorry for my
crime.” His trial appears to have been
a travesty of justice, but he didn’t help
himself by refusing to talk to his lawyers
and refusing to take the stand or take
any interest in the proceedings, on the
ground that he didn’t believe in courts
or lawyers. He claimed to be an
anarchist (although the anarchists hastily
repudiated him) and not to believe in
marriage, religion, voting, the republican
form of government or indeed govern-
ment of any kind. At his trial five
doctors unanimously pronounced him
sane, but two eminent psychiatrists, Pro-
fessor Walter Channing and Dr Vernon
Briggs, who made a detailed study of his
life and history reached a different con-
clusion. Channing later published an
article in the American Journal of In-
sanity diagnosing “dementia praecox of
the hebephrenic form”.
Eleven years later, in 1912, former
President Theodore Roosevelt, who had
been McKinley’s successor in office,
received a serious bullet wound in the
chest from the .38 Colt revolver of a
saloon-keeper named John N. Schrank.
He was lucky to survive and carried the
bullet in his body until his death less
than seven years later. Schrank was an-
other of the divine guidance school. Not
long before he shot Roosevelt he wrote
in a letter addressed to “The People of
the United States”, found on him when
he was arrested, “God has called me to
be his instrument, so help me God.”
Schrank believed that Roosevelt had
been responsible for McKinley’s death.
The day after his death McKinley had
appeared to Schrank in a dream. Ap-
parently he had sat up in his coffin and
pointed to Theodore Roosevelt, who was
standing by, saying, “This is my mur-
derer. Avenge my death”. A second
appearance by McKinley in September,
1912, when Roosevelt was seeking a
third term as President, finally decided
Schrank that he must do “what had to
be done”. Schrank was charged with
armed assault with intent to kill but
after a sanity commission of five psy-
chiatrists unanimously reported that he
was suffering from paranoia he was com-
mitted to a mental hospital. When
Theodore Roosevelt died he observed,
“I am sorry to learn of his death. He
was a great American. His loss will
be a great one for the country.” A quiet
patient who devoted himself to reading
about politics, Schrank died in hospital
in 1943. He had been rather upset when
Franklin Roosevelt ran for a third term
in 1940 because he regarded the two-
term tradition as sacred and this had
been one of his objections to Theodore.
Franklin Roosevelt would never have
reached a third term had Giuseppe
Zangara, a New Jersey bricklayer, been
a more accurate marksman. In 1933 he
fired five shots at the President-elect less
than three weeks before his inauguration.
He hit five other people (killing one), but
missed Roosevelt altogether. Zangara
rather admired Roosevelt but attacked
him, he said, in order to “get even
with capitalists by killing the President”.
A sanity commission of two psychiatrists
diagnosed him as “a psychopathic per-
sonality” and one of these has since
stated that in his view he was probably
hopelessly insane. Zangara refused legal
help, no plea of insanity was entered and
no appeal was made against the sentence
of death. On being sentenced Zangara
shouted at the judge, “You is crook man,
too.” At his electrocution he stamped
into the death chamber, shouted at the
chaplain, “I want no minister. There is
no God,” and refused to be conducted
to the chair. “I no scared of electric
chair,” he said, brushed aside the guards
and sat in it smiling. He was annoyed
that there were no cameramen present.
“No movie to take picture of Zangara”
he cried. “No picture, lousy capitalists!”
Saying that he went contented because
“I go for my idea”, he continued to talk
through the cowl. “Go ahead, push the
button,” he said at the end.
The lone wolves >
Tn 1951 two Puerto Rican Nationalists,
A Oscar Collazo and Griselio Torresola,
made a fruitless attempt to assassinate
Roosevelt’s successor, Harry S. Truman.
Two men were killed (one of them
Torresola) and three others wounded.
Collazo survived to be sentenced to
death. Although Collazo’s attorneys con-
sidered a defence of insanity Collazo
indignantly rejected the suggestion, and
was in fact found to be sane on psychi-
atric examination. When asked if he
wished to say anything before he was
sentenced Collazo made a speech begin-
ning with the words “Anything that I had
done I did it for the cause of the liberty
of my country”. He refused to avail
himself of the privilege of asking the
President for clemency, but on July 24,
just over a week before the day set for
his execution, Mr Truman commuted the
sentence to life imprisonment. “A Presi-
dent has to expect those things,” he
said. On Friday, 22nd November, the
truth of those words was confirmed,
although confirmation was scarcely
needed, when John F. Kennedy was
mortally wounded by rifle fire.
It is striking that, with the possible
exception of Collazo, and including, it
would appear, the alleged assassin of
Kennedy, all of the assassins were
isolated individuals operating on their
own initiative with no organisation or
party behind them. In Collazo’s case it
was alleged, although never proved and
his own account belied it, that the Puerto
Rican Nationalist Party was responsible
for the attempt. Striking, too, is the very
high incidence of mental disorder and
the complete absence of repentance on
the part of any of the assailants. Most
of them regarded themselves as martyrs
and one, Guiteau, left a will in which he
directed that if any monument were sub-
sequently to be erected in his honor,
which he confidently anticipated, it
should bear the words:
“Here lies the body of Charles
Guiteau, Patriot and Christian.
His soul is in glory ”
It is notable also that although in a
number of the cases the labels Corn-


(Aicloo i? ocprixiTTXi otto xij-
■ >
8
W&
' ■ ' '■ -■' ' -
-
P"
II
:
wm
\
%
l>
i. rL-i.fi
*of works orders, financial statements, invoices
schedules, letters, bulletins. In fact almost any
internal paperwork.
NEW Thermo-Fax brand products now provide an
efficient and effective method of reproducing internal
paperwork quickly and cheaply.
Statistics prove that at least 80% of all business
paperwork is of internal origin. Many ways of pro-
viding essential additional copies of this paperwork
have been tried over the years.
Model 47 This new, revolutionary machine is
thermostatically controlled to provide clean, con-
sistent quality facsimiles. It is an automatic systems
reproducing machine and, as well, does all the tasks
of the famous “Secretary”.
Make “Thermo-Fax” Model 47 and the wide range
of low-cost papers a part of your business com-
munications set-up. You’ll find the longer you use
them the more valuable they become.
Ring 3M Company and find out how better business
communications can increase the efficiency of your
organisation.
COmPANY
“Thermo-Fax” brand Systems Products
BUSINESS COmmUNICATIQNS DIVISION
IDINNESOTA [TUNING AND IDANUFAETURING [AUSTRALIA] PTY. LTD.
Copying, Visual and Microfilm Products
SYDNEY: 2 Wentworth Avenue. 2-0930.
Barry Parade. 5-4131. PERTH: 238 Lord
MELBOURNE:
Street. 28-4651.
17-23 Queensbridge Street. 61-3841. ADELAIDE: 9 North Terrace.
CANBERRA: Maitland House, London Circuit. 4-0791. HOBART:
LA 5971-6. BRISBANE: 178
182 Elizabeth Street. 3-3104.
m5a.3490


mm qOjQrm'dtes. ..
LDD
FINE OLD BRIAR
PIPES
LONDON MADE
SELECTED AND SEASONED FOR
COOL, SWEET SMOKING
AND LONG SERVICE
AT ALL TOBACCONISTS
& DEPARTMENT STORES Iff
TRADE ENQUIRIES: S. HOFFNUNG & CO. LTD
munist and anarchist were bandied
about, and even espoused by the accused,
none of them had any acquaintance with
the works of Marx or Engels, Bakunin
or Kropotkin; nor did they belong to any
bona-fide anarchist or Communist or-
ganisations. It should perhaps be added
that they would have found little justi-
fication for their acts in the former or
approval for them in the latter had they
done so.
Again, with the exception of Guiteau,
who had indulged in some petty swind-
ling, none of the men had criminal
records. Moreover, so far from being
troublesome they were mostly, with the
obvious exception of Booth, rather quiet,
withdrawn, unobtrusive individuals prior
to their crimes.
It seems highly unlikely that the exist-
ence of the death penalty exercises any
deterrent effect whatsoever in such cases
as these. Indeed it is arguable that with
individuals of this type the thought of
execution and the notoriety and drama
of a trial may exert an attractive rather
than a repulsive force.
Assassination is an irrational act com-
mitted by irrational individuals. As Max
Lerner puts it:
“. . . As a political method it is
fundamentally destructive and nega-
tive. It generally defeats its own ends.
The hidden fears of society are aroused
and a revulsion of feeling is awakened
by the enormity of the act. Thinking
himself a martyr, the assassin succeeds
only in creating a martyr for the cause
he hates.”
Disraeli was exaggerating when he said
that “assassination has never changed
the history of the world”; but it has
rarely changed it in the direction desired
by the assassin.
In the days of dynastic assassination
fundamental political changes could
sometimes be stimulated by this method,
but today little is accomplished by en-
compassing the death of a crucial in-
dividual, however eminent. Yet the
danger of assassination seems unlikely to
disappear.
On the day of his death Abraham
Lincoln said, while walking with one of
his guards, “Do you know I believe there
are men who want to take my life”; and
after a pause he added, “And I have no
doubt they will do it.” The guard said
that he hoped the President was mis-
taken. “I have perfect confidence in
every one of you men,” Lincoln replied.
“I know no one could do it and escape
alive. But if it is to be done, it is
impossible to prevent it.”
And despite the immensely complex,
highly organised, detailed protective
arrangements provided by the Secret
Service for the President today, what
Lincoln said just on one hundred years
ago remains no less true.
letters
to the
editor
“HAPHAZARD” MARKETING
Sir,
Having read the article about our
marketing methods in US, “No Promo-
tion That Side of the Ocean” (23/11/63)
one thought runs through my mind
do Australian business firms really want
to sell their products, either here or over-
seas? I only know of the fairly general
haphazard methods that seem to pre-
dominate here in Australia.
The article says: “If Australian manu-
facturers advertise in export journals,
readers abroad assume that they want to
export”. Therefore, if Australian manu-
facturers advertise in local papers, local
readers will also assume they wish to sell
their products. But if I send a letter ask-
ing about a product, or requesting that
the makers send me a booklet “as adver-
tised”, then, if I’m lucky, I might get a
reply within three weeks. Normally I
might have to wait up to three months,
by which time I have either forgotten
about the letter or found something I
could purchase from a local store.
During the last few months, I have
written many letters asking for informa-
tion from firms whose product was
brought to my eye by large advertise-
ments in newspapers. Only one reply
was sent within a few days by
airmail from Hong Kong. The rest have
drifted in, at odd intervals, from Sydney,
a mere 55 miles away.
J. WALKER
Unanderra (NSW).
“LAND OUT OF CONRAD”
Sir,
I would like to protest strongly on
both the content and tone of the article
on Timor, “Land Out of Conrad”
(23/11/63). Apart from the until now
baseless inference of expansionism on
the part of Indonesia, I question the
whole attitude of the writer to the
political situation. His statement that
“the political administration is doubtless
a colonial anachronism, but the native
people could be unhappier” should be
examined closely. The indigenous
peoples of Portuguese Timor on the
whole receive little or no education and
have no opportunity to run their own
country, both because of their lack of
training and because the administration
is carried out by their Portuguese rulers.
I feel that countries such as those
adjacent to Portugal’s African provinces,
and Indonesia are to be commended for
pointing out to the world the injustices
to humanity perpetrated in these colonies.
RONALD A. WITTON
Sydney (NSW).


c *fE-dß' v "* G ,
S " FE Mem be»WP
< : ’•"-
£*•<
•*.•5
e”
(««*
»a
OMf-
W £w . , ic tnt« . *m\s( a, ‘‘
i cu»“' V k ie»' on *fwrlt '
2sg?£”tEX w '
rfi. «,,?£«•
\ VoW
«*«<£*
rj't’.l
(It*®*
6o«t*
----- —
»BgA
I FLEECE
C's^roU.M
Sld«'»''°" ne °' r.tTV>'« d
‘jate-DtW'Wl oC e B»o
a insi' BoC ' h
***s-£?»'
~ u«(tx>y*', ,« .
pay sut,l «ope s,l ° B
iian®*,* pe>'
‘pert oo ;
n«(o«
estate
de3 '.M
Aied oCC
Join the GOLDEN FLEECE Safe Driving League
11000
DRIVER INSURANCE
These are the benefits:
1. Upon loss of life .. . £l,OOO
2. Upon permanent total loss of sight of
both eyes £l,OOO
3. Upon permanent total loss of sight of
one eye £5OO
4. Upon loss of two limbs £l,OOO
5. Upon loss of one limb .. .. £5OO
6. Upon permanent total loss of sight of
one eye and loss of one limb £l,OOO
for 2 lm a month
This is all you do:
1. Hold a current driver's licence.
2. Give your name and address and sign the membership
card.
3. Pay 2/- a month membership fee.
Nothing else required. No questions, no medical, no
complicated paper work. Join the Golden Fleece Safe-
Driving League today end encourage greater road safetyl
Immediate Insurance Cover arranged through T. P. Clark and Chapman Pty. Ltd., Insurance Brokers, Melbourne
MEMBERSHIP
CARDS AT
EVERY
GOLDEN FLEECE
SERVICE STATION
GF46-63
THE GIRLS OF BRISBANE
Sir,
Being a zoologist, I naturally jumped
at the chance to visit your wonderful
“island” on the return from a Stanford
University oceanographic expedition.
Needless to say, I am now looking for-
ward to the day when I can return.
However, what I am really writing
about is your very excellent article on
Brisbane (21/9/63), which appeared
just before I reached that charming city.
In spite of my all too hurried visit, I
found the article painted a quite repre-
sentative picture with one glaring excep-
tion Brisbane’s women. After having
lived most of my life within a stone’s
throw of Hollywood, I have become
somewhat inured to this kind of glamor.
Therefore, it was an extremely pleasant
shock to see such a plethora of refresh-
ing loveliness undimmed by layers of
cosmetics or hair tint ad nauseam. No-
where else in Australia (with all due
regard), California, or even Tahiti, have
I seen such hope for the future!
RICHARD N. MARISCAL
Department of Zoology,
University of California
Berkeley (Cal.).
THE PEOPLE OF MALAYSIA
Sir,
Several interesting articles on Malaysia
have been published this year in The
Bulletin. Having resided for some 12
years in South-east Asia, I would like to
dispel the myth of a stable, Malay-
dominated and anti-Communist Federa-
tion of Malaysia by quoting some facts
and figures.
Mr Jaques Rueff’s by now classic Re-
port on the Economic Aspects of Malay-
sia gives these figures for “Population by
Ethnic Groups” (1961) for all Malaysia:
Chinese; 4,302,000 42.2%
Malays: 3,991,000 39.2%
Indians and Pakistanis: 955,000 9.4%
Non-Malay Indigenous: 716,000 7.0%
Non-indigenous: 223,000 2.2%
Further, Malays form only 17.5 per
cent of Sarawak’s and nil per cent of
Sabah’s population. On the other hand,
Chinese are fairly evenly spread over
the whole of Malaysia, bulging as a
majority only at Singapore. And nobody
has ever doubted that Malaysia’s finance,
industry and economy are firmly con-
trolled by the Chinese.
The Indians (far more numerous than
the Pakistanis) are politically definitely
to the Left of the Malays, and, from their
frequent alliance with Chinese in trade
unions, one can assume that they will
become natural political partners in
opposition to the Malays.
Does one have to be a Leftist (which
I am not) to share Indonesia’s mistrust
in the future of Malaysia when there
can be no doubt that probably, within a
decade, Chinese will control federal
politics?
L. F. DE GIDRO
Pymble (NSW).
PROGRESSIVE TAXATION
Sir,
I am no economist, nor am I particu-
larly interested in the disagreement on
taxation recently revealed in The
Bulletin. On the other hand, I am in-
terested in good discussion and debate;
thus the letter of E. P. Middleton
(23/11/63) was most disappointing to
me.
One of the simplest ways of trying to
win an argument is to misquote one’s
opponent and to demolish the views
which one attributes to him. It is an
extremely convenient, if reprehensible,
technique, and is precisely the one which
Mr Middleton has chosen in his pusil-
lanimous attempt to rebuke Mr Jona-
than Pincus (2/11/63).
He quoted Mr Pincus thus: “ . . . at-
tempts to devise a scientific basis for
progressive and proportional taxation”.
What Mr Pincus really said was: “Econo-
mists, from Bernoulli to Abba Lerner,
attempted to derive a ‘scientific’ basis
for progressive taxation. (The latter
wanted an equalitarian income distribu-
tion.) These attempts failed, as do the
attempts to justify proportional taxation”.
Apart from the verbal misquotation, Mr
Middleton’s omission of the inverted
commas around “scientific” is most un-
fair.
JOHN CARMODY
Brisbane (Q’ld).


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
O’SULLIVAN
1%. p^ ltd
tRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating:
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants ,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
, WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
REVIEWS
THEATRE
The Powers of Darkness
Patrick White’s evil " d o -gooder ”
By MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
A Cheery Soul. Patrick White. Union
Theatre Repertory Company. Union
Theatre. Melbourne.
Patrick White’s “A Cheery Soul” is
*■ a portrait of Miss Docker who de-
votes herself ruthlessly to “doing good”
in the Sydney outer suburb of Sarsa-
parilla. Her unflagging energy in this
pursuit enables her to bulldoze her way
through the lives of the old, the sick and
the self-doubting. Her special talent is
for putting more sensitive people in the
wrong.
The first act is set in the home of
the Custances, a childless, middle-aged
couple who live a quiet life, are fond
of each other and “have every comfort”.
Mrs Custance, admiring Miss Docker’s
goodness, decides to give her a home.
Miss Docker, arriving like a tornado,
turns out to be vulgar, sloppy and
domineering. The Custances quickly
realise that they cannot live with her
and, filled with self-reproach at her own
selfishness, Mrs Custance gets her into
the genteel Sundown Home.
Act One is wholly realistic, but Act
Two, set in the Sundown Home, is only
intermittently so. Miss Docker is still
solidly realistic, but the other old ladies,
all dressed in black, hover between
reality and symbol. At intervals, lined
up in the spotlight, they become a Greek
chorus, intoning poetic comment. A
series of flashbacks tell the story of Miss
Docker’s relationship with Mrs Lillie, one
of the old ladies. In helping to nurse the
speechless Mr Lillie in his last illness,
she bullied the frail, aristocratic Mrs
Lillie and tried, in her usual way, to
come between husband and wife.
Relentlessly the case against Miss
Docker is built up. In Act Three she
hounds poor, inarticulate Mr Wakeman,
minister of the Church of England, until
he collapses and dies in his pulpit. But,
at the end, the whole wormlike world
has turned against Miss Docker, even
down to the mongrel dog she tries to
befriend on her way home from church
after the fatal sermon. Silently it lifts
its leg against her best nylons.
There is no doubt that, seen as a
comic figure, Miss Docker has great
vitality. Every sentence she utters gives
an Australian audience a horrified and
delighted shock of recognition. She has
a lot in common with Barry Humphries’
Mrs Everage. But, whereas Humphries
obviously likes Mrs Everage’s energy and
even her excruciating vulgarity, Patrick
White’s satire on Miss Docker is con-
ceived in pure hate and written with
terrifying savagery. Like Mrs Jolly and
Mrs Flack of “Riders in The Chariot”
she is presented as a figure of nightmare
evil. “O Lord, protect us from the powers
of darkness” prays Mrs Wakeman as her
husband falls.
Certainly Miss Docker is vulgar, in-
sensitive and domineering. It is quite
credible that she would be the plague of
the lives of the Custances and the old
ladies and a constant strain on the nerves
of the clergyman and his wife. But it is
incredible that she should cut such a
swathe of destruction through the world
of Sarsaparilla, and it suggests that there
is something wrong with that world.
The trouble is that Miss Docker is
presented in three dimensions in a piti-
less and blinding light, while all the other
characters are dimly seen in the soft
radiance of the author’s tolerance. There
is no dramatic life in the picture of the
evil but colorful Miss Docker laying low
the good but shadowy people of Sarsa-
parilla. It is merely oppressive.
But, someone might object, that is how
Patrick White sees the world: clownish,
evil and vulgar insensitivity, mowing
down humble, sensitive, inarticulate
good. But surely that kind of goodness
is in need of criticism as well as Miss
Docker’s kind. If Miss Docker’s sin, as
Mr Wakeman preaches before he dies,
is the “sin of goodness”, it seems to me
that the rest of the characters in the
play are guilty of the “sin of humility”.
If Patrick White had been able to show
these two kinds of “goodness” clashing
with each other to reveal the weaknesses
of both, then the play would have been
genuine drama.
The production of this play, by John
Sumner, was obviously no small under-
taking, involving as it does so many
gimmicks, such as flashbacks and
choruses, and so many changes, not only
of scene but of style. After the first act
the play becomes a series of tableaux
rather than a developing action, but
some of the tableaux are very effective
theatrically.
The standard of acting of the large
cast is very high. Nita Pannell gives a
brilliant performance as Miss Docker,
matching in its accuracy the dramatist’s
own observation. From the moment she
barges in to Mrs Custance’s kitchen until
her stoic acceptance of the dog’s re-
jection, Miss Pannell dominates the play.
TELEVISION
Cabled Clowns
Dave Allen Show. Channel 9. Sydney.
Graham Kennedy Show. Channel 9.
Sydney.
HThis is the week when Sydney and Mel-
A bourne will begin to exchange views
of their reigning clown princes holding


tjßottßurns
W\o
M I
w
h
/ -
TRADE ENQUIRIES: S. HOFFNUNG & CO. LTD.
New from tip to tip
now America’s most
favoured Cigar.
L AT ALL TOBACCONISTS
HERE’S ONE
FOR THE ROAD
that means
• longer engine life, livelier performance
• a smoother, quieter engine
• more than your money back in m.p.g.
ROCOL MOLYSPEED m at your Service Station.
RM23.22
R 000
ANY HANDYMAN
CAN INSTAL
ML
‘FLOATING ACTION’ garage door fittings
From Hardware stores everywhere t.io
court. Via the coaxial cable Melbourne’s
Channel 9 viewers will see Dave Allen
and Sydney’s will see a “live” Graham
Kennedy, as each introduces segments of
his own show to the other’s. Mainly the
exchange will provide views of topline
guest artists rather than of comperes,
but I expect that someone will keep
tabs on the receptions DA and GK
receive in alien territory.
Melbourne viewers have seen Dave
Allen as an act on Kennedy’s show. He
told his jokes and moved on to Sydney,
where he was given the chance to com-
pere a free and easy show at which
others had failed. So far, he has
succeeded, because it’s a “be yourself”
format and Dave Allen’s self is just
sufficiently off-beat to attract the moder-
ately sophisticated.
He has an Irish charm, though not a
sharp Irish wit. His appeal lies in zany
action. And the only qualification one
can apply to that is the open question—
can he keep it up without going over the
edge which divides pleasant zaniness
from errors in taste? Humor from script
can be as varied as the minds and moods
of teams of writers can make it (and
sometimes that is not saying much).
However, it is a good thing that Dave
Allen has appeared. He is probing
further into the field offered to him than
any of his predecessors has done. With
the same open format the Sydney disc
jockey Bob Rogers let the show run
away from-him in all directions while he
sat at a desk looking rather like a
startled penguin. Allen has a desk, too,
but he is more apt to dance on it or jump
over it to get back into the action than
he is to sit at it and let the show escape
him.
To some viewers, including me, the
studied anarchy of “Tonight With Dave
Allen” is too much, but I know numerous
members of a younger generation who
feel it is for them. They like funny
things to happen or appear to happen
spontaneously, unpredictably. And I
must admit that in the field of sketched
humor it is most always possible to guess
the tag line within seconds.
This may only mean that the nature
of sketched humor needs to change,
and there have been occasional breaths
of that wind recently in the potted “Best
of Kennedy” show. I recall a particular
send-up of the kind of Auntie-Uncle
approach to children’s programmes. One
of its virtues was that it is indescribable.
It was something new in humor for tele-
vision.
If such departures could be piped into
the Dave Allen show, and some of the
more inspired bits of Dave Allen in
action could go into Melbourne’s show
(Continued on page 45)


Brambles
NEWS
Australian Owned—Australia Wide
Volume 1, Number 4
December. 1963
Group Action
And Australia’s
Business Life
The Brambles Group of companies
takes an active part in the entire business
life of the nation. Services are rendered
to heavy industry, to manufacturers and
through them to the consumer of mass-
produced goods. Units of Brambles are
heavily committed to the current surge
of national development as shown in the
pictures at right.
Other Men’s Work
The greater part of the Brambles effort
is to help other people with their work.
Units of Brambles carry goods from ship
to store, raw materials from site to
factory, manufactured goods from fac-
tory to shop and to ship for export. Civil
contracting subsidiaries help make roads
and lay pipelines. Materials handling
companies lift heavy equipment into
new installations and hire pallets out to
package goods wholesalers.
As “hired helpers” Brambles com-
panies work behind the scenes in the big
national shows. Big construction jobs,
mass manufacture and distribution of
food and clothing, oil search and plant
expansion — these are the things which
make news day after day in Australia.
These are activities in which Brambles
units are helping other men to do their
work.
Manufacturing Links
Thus the Group has a thousand links
with the manufacturers of the country.
Then again, certain units of Brambles
are themselves manufacturers in the
fields of office furniture, tanks for foods
and chemicals, and dairy equipment.
From any angle of view, the Brambles
Group is closely entwined with the
complex business life of Australia.
BRAMBLES IN DEVELOPMENT ROLES
At Townsville, Brambles Engineering (N.Q.) Pty ltd. takes pari in development of the far north with
working contribution to the £30,000,000 Mt Iso railway line Above: Mew roils ore descaled after
automatic butt welding
At Whyallo, S.A., Brambles Industrial Services Pty. Ltd. helps harvest salt. The company's field units
stockpile the salt and haul to ship-side for export, moving on occasions 4,300 tons in 13 hours,


From the
General Manager
The Board of Directors joins with
management in sending Season’s Greet-
ings to our employees and their families
as well as to our clients in every field of
activity in every part of the country.
For many years now it has been the
custom for big companies to make
Christmas gifts of pens, ashtrays and
the like each of which represents a small
personal gesture and at the same time
a medium of advertising. We in our
group of companies have departed from
the custom in favour of a more practical
Christmas gesture.
Instead of distributing token gifts, we
are making donations in four States to
the Guide Dogs for the Blind Associa-
tion. Each donation will purchase and
train a guide dog for a blind person.
This is done in the belief that the men
and women of the Brambles family and
the people with whom we do business
will endorse our decision to help some
of the less fortunate at Christmas time.
A prosperous and rewarding 1964 to
everybody!
W. J. Holcroft
Story and picture re-
printed with permission
from ‘The Adelaide
News’ of 12 November
1963.
The true spirit of
Christmas
; The “Christmas spirit ” can at times be a vague
; something capable of many definitions, but a gesture
I yesterday must surely be very close to the right one.
! The occasion itself was a simple matter of handing
;over a cheque, but it goes deeper than that.
; Some two years ago,
[ the executive in Sydney
; of the Australia-wide
; Brambles Industries
[Ltd..asked State mana-
> gers to nominate which
| course they favored —
[ continuing the custom
[ of giving gifts to busi-
i ness' associates at
I Christmas time or cur-
' tailing this and select-
! ing a deserving cause to-
; help in a worthwhile
i way.
[ Thev voted for the
> combination of reduced
| entertainment and
, charity.
; So it was that yester-
i day the five companies
| in South Australia —
i Brambles Transport,
! Lee Transport, Bart on-
[ Cockings. Brambles In-
> dustrial Services, and
| L. D. Nicholls Ltd. —
' combined to hand over
! a substantial cheque to
[ further the work of the
! Guide Dogs for the
| Blind Association.
MR. FRANK BEAUCHAMP (left). president of the Guide Dogs for the
Blind Association, receives the cheque from Mr. Ralph Lee, general
manager of Lee Transport . Also representing the Brambles group are
(from left) Messrs.
Don Nicholls (L.I)
Nicholls Ltd). Jim
Mealor (Barton-
Cockings), and Mal-colm
Wallers (Brambles Trans-port).
SENIOR STAFF APPOINTMENTS
Mr. Cliff Unger has been appointed
to the position of Development Manager
of Brambles Transport and Mr. Ray
Nugent to the post of Joint General
Manager of A. Bradshaw (Excavations)
Pty. Ltd. A new appointment to the
Senior Staff is that of Mr. Hugh Tighe
as Customs and Shipping Manager of
Brambles Transport — Queensland.
STAFF MEN IN A.R.T.F.
Last month the Australian Road
Transport Federation met in Alice
Springs and Mr. E. B. Williams, Inter-
state Manager of Brambles Transport,
was elected to the Council while Mr.
R. M. Jones, Industrial Advisor at
Brambles Headquarters, was elected an
Industrial Relations Committeeman.
Slate of Gold
Brambles vehicles have begun to cart
slate from the Gold Coast of Queensland
to Sydney. The opening of a slate mine
near Mermaid Beach means the glamour
region has acquired a new industry.
Slate is mined from an open-cut, sawn
to shape and Brambles take over for
the haul to Sydney where the stone is
sold for feature walls, fireplaces, patios,
shop and theatre fronts, and wherever
adventurous designers see the chance for
elegance.
The mine has a history. Years ago,
gold prospectors gave up when they
struck the slate strata. They found no
gold—but the frustrating stone has now
stepped into a new scale of values. It’s
a case of alchemy — stone turned into
gold.
Tank Order
Fulfilled
Six mild steel tanks, each to hold
10,000 gallons of sodium silicate, have
been designed, made and installed by
the Brambles Manufacturing unit of
W. G. Pickrell, Pty. Ltd. The tanks were
supplied to Nightingale Chemicals
(N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd. as part of a new
continuous process plant. Each tank
was 15 feet high and 12 feet in diameter,
self draining, and specially treated to
withstand corrosion.
Below: Three of the six tanks being hauled to
the site by Brambles low loaders.


CHEP STORIES OF TWO TANKS
CHEP — Materials Handling sub-
sidiary of Brambles — made two spec-
tacular lifts in recent weeks. Both meant
the movement of big tanks in tricky
circumstances.
The fiFst is shown at right. Engineers
at the Shell Oil Refinery at Clyde,
N.S.W., faced a major problem when
they had to shift a huge lubrication tank
over a distance of one and a half miles.
CHEP know-how and equipment solved
the problem.
The second, and more difficult, lift
took place at the Ultimo plant of Dairy
Farmers Co-operative Milk Company
when CHEP were called in to lift an
aluminium cylinder 34ft. long and
12ft. 6in. in diameter across a 46ft.
wide roof. Under the roof lay a power-
ful ammonia plant.
Access was difficult so CHEP brought
two Coles cranes to the job. One lifted
the cylinder, swung it out over the top
of the ammonia plant; the other swung
a hook out. In a tense moment, the
load was transferred to the second crane
and the work went on smoothly to a successful con-
clusion. Again, the key was CHEP equipment
backed by know-how and experience.
Above: Side view of tank move. Inset Upper Right: Back view of the wide load.
Attempted Shipwreck on River Torrens
In Adelaide, a unique re-
quest to the materials handling
subsidiary L. D. Nicholls Pty.
Ltd. — to wreck a boat! The
client: Hawker De Havilland
Aust. Pty. Ltd. The Marine
Division of Hawker De Havil-
land wanted to drop an
aluminium boat into water
from a great height to demon-
strate its sturdy construction
and ability to withstand severe
knocks without buckling or
cracking.
Normally such a drop is one
for a helicopter hire. But L. D.
Nicholls had a 155-foot crane
jib, shown at left with a boat
hoisted sky high. The crane
gave greater control over the
experiment than a helicopter.
The crane lifted the boat,
dropped it into the Torrens and
the boat proved itself to be of
a rugged breed. As a ship-
wreck the job was a failure.
As a service to industry, L. D.
Nicholls proved a success.
BUY AUSTRALIAN!
There is now a national awareness
that Australia’s future depends on ex-
ports. At the same time, we must support
our own home industries with home
demand.
Brambles are proud
to buy Australian goods
and strongly support
the Associated Cham-
bers of Manufactures’
campaign to “Buy Aus-
tralian Made”.


The Business and Pleasure
Faces of Brambles
Pleasure on a national scale is a
business nowadays. As a national busi-
ness, Brambles contributes to national
pleasure. On this page, Brambles
appear as liquor handlers, pageanteers,
and air forwarders extraordinary.
Celebrations
The wholly owned subsidiary, Cleland’s
Bonded and Free Stores, bottles fine
spirits under rigid Customs Department
supervision every day of the week.
Cleland’s follows through with labelling,
packing and distribution to wholesale
houses. The ingredients of many cele-
brations begin their Australian journeys
at Cleland’s.
The subsidiary looks after other fine
things of life. From time to time the
strongroom holds furs, jewellery, valu-
able stamp collections and a host of rare,
costly items.
F estivals
Possibly the biggest show of the
South Pacific year is the Sydney Waratah
Festival. This year, Brambles joined in
tne Pageant when a low-loader carried
Sydney’s first-ever electric tram car
through the streets for 750,000 people
to see. The float combined a spectacle
of the transport of yesterday with that
of today and tomorrow.
Transport, of course, is the last thing
most Australians will think about as they
eat their Christmas dinners. But festive
tables would groan less but for the trans-
port industry. It’s not generally known,
but transport takes up 30 per cent of the
activity between raw material supply and
the consumer.
As this edition goes to press, fleets of
trucks are carrying poultry and ham
from country to town and city . . .
potatoes from Tasmania . . . nuts from
Queensland . . . dried fruits from the
Riverina. Christmas dinner is by
courtesy of the Transport Industry in
which Brambles plays a leading part.
Flight
Our Latest Development
Bramair International Pty. Ltd. sends
goods and people by air—also reflects
the business and pleasure faces of the
group.
Inwards from overseas and outwards
with exports, Bramair is a business air-
freighter. Consignments range from day-
old chicks and orchids to baby baths and
shipments of special steel. With agents
across the globe, Bramair is a two-way
link with the world.
Business journey bookings are the
staple of Bramair’s travel service, and
pleasure jourriey bookings get the same
attention. Fares, accommodation, reserva-
tions, customs and currency guidance all
come with the service whether the tourist
wants to go to Trinidad or to Surfers’
Paradise.
Staff members should know that
Bramair is geared to help them make
their holidays run smoothly and to take
the business out of their annua] leisure.
Celebrations: Many begin at Cleland's Bonded
and Free Stores, part of Brambles Customs and
Shipping Division
Brambles Transport piggybacks an old-timer
Flight: Air cargo for business, air passages for pleasure.


This Christmas,
Every Christmas,
Everywhere
WHITE
HORSE
THIS LAbtL IS REGISTERED
T ° SCOTCH WHISKY
'j&i OISTItIERS '
The Old Bler\d- 1
"■ 4929293 Scotch. Wkisk.y
Cellar
PROM THE
Original Recipe
1746
174
□no
Rlri, rd m a STaHf rrv«V-?, acc lhe y ma y b
•&*g4’~*’— A /‘«
!55."5f.L D J. ST| LU«S.LTD..
Ann a^i nd Glenliv «t District
rtl!fU'il CnilVel U| Strict.
IROT 6 FLUID OUNCES
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
In the distinctive pack for distinguished drinkers
White Horse—the toast of the season—inter-
nationally enjoyed around the world. There’s
no mistaking White Horse.
. R 225
■— in addition to the exchange of top-
liners then variety could easily be
enlivened in both cities. Most of us
will admit it needs it, and if old
approaches fail for lack of “suitable”
scripts, let’s have new ones which may
encourage new writers whose concepts of
humor are original, but who can’t see
themselves in television at present.
When the world is changing rapidly
but humor appears to stand still, when
“Stop the world, I want to get off’
appears to be the only recent humorous
statement with no recognisable origin in
Joe Miller’s joke book, then clearly
something is wrong.
FRANK ROBERTS
ART
Gleeson
James Gleeson. South Yarra Gallery.
Melbourne.
catalogue photograph of James
Gleeson at work is unusually re-
vealing. He is sitting in an armchair,
backed by an impressive library, with a
small panel on an easel at about reading
height in front of him. A sheet is draped
protectively over the chair and across
his knees. Painting for him appears to
be a neat and scholarly activity.
His exhibition is just as neat and
carefully tended. There are eight panels
each with twelve miniatures, and seven
larger abstractions. In recent years some
similar series of miniatures have been
shown here in group exhibitions, but to
my knowledge this is the only one-
man show Gleeson has had in Melbourne.
He is therefore rather less known than he
deserves to be. Most people probably
recall him most clearly as a pioneer of
surrealism in Australia—surrealism large-
ly of the Dali kind. By now, however,
there is not much left of that, which to
my mind is a great advantage. The
characteristic which most obviously re-
mains is the strong reliance on clarity
and brilliance of technique, especially
in the drawing of the nude figure. In
this Gleeson attains a quite remarkable
excellence.
What has long since gone from Glee-
son’s surrealism is the psychoanalytical
imagery. In the panels at the South Yarra
Gallery his subjects are Greek myths.
Each one is coherently narrated, but there
is over all an attempt to evoke an heroic
world in which nature is implacably op-
posed to man, yet not powerful enough
to rule him. By imposing such extreme
limitations on size, Gleeson seems to
make the most of his virtuosity, and the
world he recreates is one of lonely
grandeur. The larger abstractions, on the
other hand, are delicate lyrical essays.
BILL HANNAN


nin
ADELAIDE
FESTIVAL
OF ADIS
7-21 MARCH/1964
to be opened by Her Majesty
Queen Elizabeth
The Queen Mother
visit Adelaide
next Match for a
festival fortnight
of music, opera,
ballet, drama, jazz,
art and pageantry
Include these Australian firsts
in your programme:
First Australian performance of
Benjamin Britten’s WAR REQUIEM
with the Sydney Symphony Orchestra
and the Festival Choir
First Australian performance of
William Walton's TRO/LUS and CRESSIDA
with Richard Lewis and Marie Collier
World Premiere of a new Helpmann ballet by
the AUSTRALIAN BALLET COMPANY
First Australian appearance of the BAYANIHAN
PHILIPPINE DANCE COMPANY
;
ifc
NPi
it !
U it
r-;?
» » if
« 'B S
is *
i
s
? *
!
r
i
wi*
; v<r.. ',’. v<
\ W; %'*
% m If |
r<T^
Richard Lewis In Walton s
"Troilus and Cressida"
m
Black Theatre of Prague
Other Festival highlights include;
SYDNEY and SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRAS
HENRY V with John Bell
(Shakespeare 400th Anniversary)
BLACK THEATRE OF PRAGUE
BOYD, NOLAN, DRYSDALE
Exhibitions
PLAY OF DANIEL
with the Deller Consort
CHILDREN'S THEATRE
Avoid Disappointment-Book Now
BOOKINGS NOW OPEN
Full Programmes and Booking Order
Forms available from all Airlines and
Travel Agents, or from
The South Australian Government
Tourist Bureau
28 Martin Place, Sydney
8 Royal Arcade, Melbourne
18 King William Street, Adelaide
or from the Festival Office,
G.P.O. Box 1960, Adelaide, Sth, Aust.
Interstate visitors can arrange combined
Travel-Theatre bookings with Ansett-ANA,
TAA or Ansett-Pioneer.


THE STATESMAN'S YEAR-BOOK, 1963 75/6
Now in its hundredth year, this essential book of reference is still unrivalled. It combines
information normally available only in dozens of separate volumes, with data obtained
from official and unofficial sources. It must have a permanent place in every library and
office.
THE ORDEAL OF POWER
A. J. Hughes 37/3
A political memoir of the Eisenhower years, written by one who had access to primary
source material, cabinet records, texts of letters and speeches and memoranda throughout
the years.
BRITISH POLITICAL FACTS, 1900-1960
D. E. Butler and J. Freeman 63/-
An essential reference book for researchers, journalists and politicians. Immediate access to
exceptional data on the who? the when? and the how many? of domestic politics in the
United Kingdom.
FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
MACMILLAN
Melbourne, Sydney
RED PAGE
CHRISTMAS BOOKS
The Mermaid and the Manatee
Gifts to buy , borrow or bear bravely
By MARIA WOLKOWSKY
In Search of Mermaids. Colin
Bertram. Peter Davies. 375. 3d.
Handbook for Fathers. Willy Brein-
holst. Museum Press. 18s. 9d.
The Australian Book of Flower Ar-
rangement. Beryl Guertner. Murray.
355.
First and Fastest. Edit. Richard
Hough. Allen & Unwin. 345. 9d.
The Laugh’s On Me. Bennett Cerf.
Hammond. 275.
Your Book of the English Church.
Joan Selby-Lowndes. Faber. 13s.
Santas who have been
wearing out their Christmas Spirit
trying to cater for that maddening friend
or relative who has everything should
find some rich pickings in this mixed
bag. There are some books here people
won’t buy for themselves, some they
would borrow and some they could only
have thrust upon them with the Season’s
Greetings.
This is the age of the big debunker,
so how could Mermaids (Little, For-
saken and otherwise) expect to escape
the scientific net? Not only are there
no fairies at the bottom of my garden
but now there can be no more mermaids
in my swimming-pool either, that is ac-
cording to Dr Colin Bertram, Fellow
and Tutor of St John’s College, Cam-
bridge. The learned zoologist went fishing
in the Guianas “In Search of Mermaids”
and came up with nothing but a long
tale of manatees. These and the dugongs,
he assures us, are responsible for all the
legends of beguiling sirens that ever rose
from the deep to bewitch lonely sea-
farers. It sounds a bit fishy to me.
As pictured by the candid camera in
a colored pin-up, mud-brown to grey
slush, the manatee appears somewhat like
the result of a union between a large,
unattractive watermole and an outsize
slug. Even Dr Bertram is moved to apolo-
gise: “The Mermaid and her mate at first
sight have little to endear them. The grey
skin is constantly sloughing, the broad
tail is usually chipped at the edge, while
the back is often green with algal fila-
ments and slime.” Relentlessly he adds
that the muzzle has bristles, the flippers
have three rough nails and the eyes are
small, “no ogling maiden there.” And
these were mistaken for golden-haired
beauties! Surely not even after umpteen
yo-ho-hos and many a bottle of rum,
Dr Bertram! There are still plenty of
fish in the sea, couldn’t you leave us
just a couple of mermaids?
For our forgotten men: expectant
fathers and those whose expectations have
recently been noisily fulfilled, Willy
Breinholst, Qualified Father, writes a
“Handbook” of screamingly funny ad-
vice laced with copious crocodile-tears
for nocturnal fellow-sufferers. No less
hilarious are the witty drawings of sweet
little darlings at their most demoniacal
which illustrator Hellmessen sets glee-
fully scampering all over the pages.
Apprentice fathers are initiated step
by step into how not to change a nappy,
how not to warm up a bottle (baby’s) and
how not to tell the story of Little Red
Riding Hood and the Birds and Bees.
Among the other useful information are
such facts as how to tell your child’s
IQ without giving away your own, how
to spit back at the Lama glama when
visiting the zoo and how to handle baby-
sitters and those of their boy-friends with
muscles and a taste for your cigars.
Every mother’s son will feel indebted
to the publishers and to Desmond Vesey,
the translator, for filling an important gap
in the realm of English literature with
this most valuable work.
Even if one is outdated enough to
think that flowers are still served best
au naturel with the stems God gave
them, untortured by wire or impaled on
a needle-point rack, there is much to
entertain in “The Australian Book of
Flower Arrangement,”


UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY
DEPARTMENT OF
TUTORIAL CLASSES
1964
SUMMER SCHOOL
This non-residential school
will run from
6th to 17th January
(excluding Saturday, 1 Ith, and
Sunday, 12th January)
1. Culture in Australia
Every morning from 9.30-11
a.m., lectures on various
facets of culture in Australia
will be given and these will be
followed by discussion. Lec-
turers are Elwyn Lynn, Hayes
Gordon, Mungo MacCallum,
Nancy Keesing and others.
2. Painting, Writing,
Acting and Drama
Students may choose one of
the following three working
courses, which will meet daily
from 11.30 a.m.-5.30 p.m.:
Painting; Creative Writing
(directed by Nancy Keesing);
or Acting and Drama (direct-
ed by Hayes Gordon).
The inclusive fee is £B/10/-.
Meals will be provided at
the University Union.
Programme and further details avail-
able from . . .
The Secretary,
Department of Tutorial
Classes
(68-0522, Ext. 585)
Peering around such extraneous detail
as fierce china lions, “amusing brown
bears,” dainty ballerinas, red roosters,
“gay figurines” and the “rhythmic figure
of the native woman” which is supposed
to bring a vase of bush grasses and pods
“to life” but merely succeeded in killing
it stone dead for me, I discovered some
admirable hints on the care of flowers, the
selection of containers, and the general
basic principles of line and form from
Hogarth’s Curve to Confucius’ Asymme-
trical Triangle with Man poised between
Heaven and Earth.
There are some lovely photographs,
many in color, &nd a few good natural-
istic arrangements of roses in a mug,
dahlias in a bowl and Madonna lilies in
a white urn. I also register with gratitude
that the book is free of such obscenities
as plastic flowers, though an occasional
manifestation of artificial silk-taffeta roses
did give me a nasty turn.
Last year Donald Campbell’s “Blue-
bird” conducted a prolonged flirtation of
the she-loves-me, she-loves-me-not variety
with Lake Eyre but the salt-pan dissolved
in briny tears and flooded out the newest
land speed record attempt. The Camp-
bells are coming again, but meanwhile
“First and Fastest” states that John
Cobb’s 391.196 set in 1947 remains.
It was raised slightly to around 407
in the USA after publication, but that
scarcely counts. The editor has collected
tales of many such attempts, from 1895
when the tin lizzie was still in the crank-
ing stage until 1958 when it was looking
more like a monster from inner space,
sacrificially devouring drivers and mech-
anics as its lawful prey.
“The Laugh’s On Me” contains 2000
morsels of ready-mixed humor . . . just
heat and serve, preferably with wine . . .
which have been caught, cleaned, canned
and catalogued by America’s funny man,
Bennett Cerf. There are said to be only
50 types of basic joke, though some wives
would rate the number considerably
lower, and the rest are just variations
thereon. Most date back to Homer and
Aristophanes which at least explains why
many have grown such long white beards
and others are getting feeble.
Here are two of the subtler ones: “Two
goldfish w ; ere swimming round and round
in a glass bowl. One announced crankily
that he had become an atheist. ‘Fine,
fine,’ scoffed the other. Now just ex-
plain to me who changes the water in this
bowl!’ ”
“A young photographer told Sir Win-
ston Churchill, ‘I hope I may have the
privilege of taking your picture again
when you’re a hundred.’ ‘No reason why
you shouldn’t,’ said Sir Winston cheer-
fully, ‘if you continue to look after your
health.’ ”
“Your Book of the English Church”
would make a good Sunday School prize.
It traces the growth of the Church in
England from the coming of Christianity
in 597 through the Reformation to the
futuristic idea of “one” Church. Well
illustrated and simply told for young
people, with the trickier bits skilfully
it explains everything about the
Church of England. It strikes a blow at
those who find the new churches “ugly
and offensive” by defending and explain-
ing the reasons for modern masterpieces
like Coventry Cathedral which “expresses
the ideas of today instead of copying
from the past.” Having seen the stained-
glass windows exhibited at the Victoria
and Albert Museum before installation,
I can only agree.
Present
Thoughts
Australia in Color. Robin Smith.
Lansdowne Press. 395. 9d.
The Great Barrier Reef. W. J. Dakin.
Ure Smith. 355.
The Opal Book. Ure Smith. 455.
Adventures with Australian Animals.
Photographs by Henry Frauca.
Heinemann. 355.
Tree Wonders of Australia. Heine-
mann. 15s.
Ma and Pa. Rose Lindsay. Ure Smith.
27,‘5.
Cooper’s Creek. Alan Moorehead.
Hamish Hamilton. 375. 3d.
Crocodiles and Other People. Douglas
Lockwood. Rigby. 275. 6d.
Mary Poppins from A to Z. P. L.
Travers. Collins. 13s. 3d.
The Roaring 40. Nan Chauncy. OUP.
14s. 6d.
Storm Boy. Colin Thiele. Rigby.
17s. 6d.
The Silent Isles. R. S. Porteous. Angus
and Robertson. 18s. 6d.
Fires and Firemen. Carol Odell. Angus
and Robertson. 21s.
Amelia Muddle. Jean Chapman.
Angus & Robertson. 13s. 6d.
giving of books as Christmas
presents has been always heavily
charged with danger, and this is in no
way helped by publishers, who make a
cantankerous point of getting their books
to the booksellers either too early or too
late. “Golden” books about Australia
ought to be early-blooming, in plenty of
time for us to post them overseas by
seamail, an important consideration.
Fiction should plainly come out as late
as is practicable, thus giving the donor
confidence that the intended recipient
has not already borrowed that title from
the local library, and hated it.
This year, publishers did us rich and


•dji*
AUSTRALIAN |
ANIMALS ANU BIRDS
BY SHEILA HAWKINS
m
lwsearneavm
m
THREAT
u
liphHH® twrS
to the
, v , -•
.• .•
- '
•.<■:? V
Children’s Books from A & R
The Australian Children’s
Annual
Number Six of this children’s
favourite. Illustrated. For all
ages. 30/- (post 2/1)
Threat to the Barkers
JOAN PHIPSON
The sequel to The Family Con-
spiracy (1962 Children’s Book of
the Year.) Boys and girls of 12
and over. 17/6 (post lOd.)
Ship in Hiding
GEORGE FINKEL
By the author of The Mystery of
Secret Beach. For boys of 12
and over. 17/6 (post 1/3)
The Silent Isles
R. S. PORTEOUS
An enthralling adventure story
for teenagers in the tradition of
Tambai Island. 18/6 (post 1/3)
Australian Animals and Birds
SHEILA HAWKINS
A beautifully illustrated book.
For all ages. 18/6 (post lOd.)
River Fugitive
MELVA LEAR
The story of an exciting river
holiday. 12 and over.
17/6 (post 1/3)
Piccaninny Walkabout
AXEL POIGNANT
The picture-story of two young
aborigines. All ages.
19/6 (post 1/3)
Amelia Muddle
JEAN CHAPMAN
A charming book for the eight
to tens. Illustrated.
13/6 (post lOd.)
Fires and Firemen
CAROL ODELL
An action - packed documentary
for the six to tens. Illustrated.
21/ - (post 1/ 3)
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS
published by
ANGUS & ROBERTSON
brown. Gorgeous books about Australia
appeared with the first squeak of the
cicada, and we were able to send abroad
a splendid variety for looker and reader,
pro- and anti-Australian. For the looker,
“Australia in Color”, by Robin Smith, is
varied, luscious, made for tough wear,
and has an improvable but inoffensive
text.
Professor W. J. Dakin’s “The Great
Barrier Reef” may be a much-chewed
old classic to us, but is still received with
joyful cries by friends overseas, par-
ticularly Americans.
“The Opal Book” is also remarkably
popular with Americans, whose previous
knowledge of our wonderful gem seems
to be confined to that aged boiled-lolly,
the Mexican fire-opal.
“Adventures with Australian Animals”
is Heinemann’s production of Harry
Frauca’s patient photographic studies of
bush creatures. Frauca’s animals are
not strokable like Axel Poignant’s, but
this is a lovable book, fully suitable for
adults and children alike. For a person
of more leafy tastes, Heinemann have
also produced a cheaper companion to
this volume, “Tree Wonders of Aus-
tralia”, at only 15 shillings.
One can almost class Rose Lindsay’s
funny, nostalgic story of her up-and-
downy childhood years, “Ma and Pa” as
early colonial. It treats of a Victorian
Sydney that already, alas, is peeping like
a goblin, lost and almost forgotten,
around the aseptic corners of our new
skyscrapers.
A good adventure story, of the type
once known as capital, is always surefire
with elderly gentlemen, and we were able
to rush overseas not only Alan Moore-
head’s “Cooper’s Creek”, written with
his customary polish and painless in-
formativeness, but also a riproaring book
by the pyrotechnic expert, Douglas
Lockwood.
“Crocodiles and Other People”, pub-
lished by that fast-rising firm of Rigby’s,
Adelaide, is enough to raise the blood
pressure in the pleasantest manner.
For the home-grown market, it would
be hard to beat Colin Simpson’s “Take
Me To Spain”. It is so opulently pro-
duced the buyer has the impression he is
getting five pounds’ worth for 325. 6d.
(always a good point with Christmas
presents). Mr Simpson hits you in the
eye with orange and crimson and the
veridian green of silken shawls. It is
agony to wrap the book up and send it
off to someone else. Those who haven’t
been to Spain will crack every sinew in
an effort to get there; those who can’t
possibly, will feel that at least they have
had a glimpse of a haunting face through
a bellied wrought-iron grille, a sniff of
the bullring, an arpeggio on a guitar.
This is a magnificent book about a
splendid, barbaric, yet over - civilised
country, and I can’t wait till Mr Simpso#
goes to Istanbul.
Children’s books do not make so fine
a showing, and an unconscionably large
number of them seem to be about
animals. Children do not hobnob with
the beasts of the field (at least in the
upper echelons) half as much as most
adults seem to think.
The clamorous following of that
starchy, conceited, and more than
slightly magical “treasure”, Mary Pop-
pins, will certainly increase with the
appearance of “Mary Poppins From A
to Z”, which creeps into this review
because the author is Australian-born. It
is material for serious thought that Mary
Poppins is just about as strict a nurse-
maid as one could find. In a world of
too-permissive parents and over-friendly
teachers, perhaps an adult who stands no
shenanigans and is all too apt to lash
about with her umbrella spells security
for the very young. Collins have done
this Poppins book, and Walt Disney will
make the film next year.
Adventure stories still seem to head
the list. Nan Chauncy goes rampaging
on, and well she might, as she is a writer
with a genuine stockpile of knowledge
about the back country of Australia, as
well as an unpretentious and golden gift
for depicting real fallible children. Her
latest, “The Roaring 40”, has a gold
rush, the lone castaway of a wrecked


THE PATTERN OF
AUSTRALIAN CULTURE
Edited A. L. McLeod
The background of present achieve-
ments in the arts, the work of the
principal pattern-makers, and the
nature of the distinctive Australian
culture are here examined. 60/-
THE DISCOVERY OF AUSTRALIA
Andrew Sharp
The sequence of discovery of por-
tions of the Australian coast is
traced, as far as possible by using
extracts from first-hand accounts.
68/-
AUSTRALIAN SHORT STORIES
Selected Brian James
Australia’s short stories of the mid-
twentieth century ar’e here rep-
resented in all their lively variety.
This collection, confined almost ex-
clusively to living contemporaries, is
a sequel to an earlier volume in the
World’s Classics. 13/-
BEYOND THE WEST HORIZON
E. C. Hiscock
Eric and Susan Hiscock have now
sailed round the world twice in a
30-foot yacht. This splendidly illu-
strated book gives an exciting
account of their second voyage.
49/9
OXFORD UNIVERSITY
PRESS
ship, and a whole Christmas stocking
full of exciting complications. A similarly
good book for a child reader of the same
age—up to 12, I should think—is Colin
Thiele’s “Storm Boy”. Set in a bird
sanctuary, the book contains plenty of
informative matter which is absorbed
right along with the adventures of a
young boy who makes a friend of that
clownish fellow the pelican.
R. S. Porteous, always reliable, comes
along with another vivaciously-written
sea story, which brings back from an
earlier book, “Tambai Island”, some of
the more popular characters. This new
book is “The Silent Isles”. It is maturely
written and should appeal to quite elderly
people, say around the age of 15.
My favorites this year were Carol
Odell’s “Fires and Firemen”, which is
informative as well as exciting and is
illustrated with flames-to-ashes photo-
graphs. The reader is not only taken
through a fire station, but personally
inspects or tries on the equipment, which
is of course extremely important when
you are eight or ten years old. The other
I shall certainly give away in large
numbers is Jean Chapman’s delightful
“Amelia Muddle”. Self-identification is
entirely possible with this simple story
of one of those unfortunate children (or
adults) who, given a choice, always do
the left-footed thing. It is illustrated by
Adye Adams, whose nice, cleancut line
work we don't see nearly often enough.
(Inclusion of a book in Miss Park’s
survey does not preclude a subsequent
review.)
RUTH PARK
Sprites
The Goldfinch Garden: seven tales.
Barbara Picard. Harrap. 15s. 9d.
The Bear Who Wanted the Mostest
and other stories. Betty Misheiker.
Harrap. 15s. 9d.
He Went With Simon Bolivar. G. M.
Nelson. Harrap. 17s. 6d.
The Missing Formula Mystery. Elisa-
beth Beresford. Max Parrish.
17s. 3d.
HThe seven tales in “Goldfinch Garden”,
by Barbara Leonie Picard, tell
of lovers and witches, a watersprite who
changed places with a girl by a trick,
causing disaster at the farm, the knight
whose lady could not wait for his return,
and so on. All have a traditional Euro-
pean or English fairytale setting, and
will charm children of from 6-12 years
old.
This type of book fills a real need;
most children love them, for the world
of legend and fantasy is their world, and
the gates of wonder should be there for
them to open.
But the illustrations are poor, old-
fashioned and muzzy, the faces drawn
without character. The publishers should
do better than this. A more modern
approach would greatly improve the
book, which is worthy of more imagina-
tive treatment by a competent artist.
In spite of its whimsy title, “The Bear
Who Wanted the Mostest”, by Betty
Misheiker, these stories will hold the
delighted attention of younger children.
The greedy little bear who boasted that
he alone possessed the best of everything,
Mother Mouse making bread and the fat
rat in a rocking chair, swelling up with
the rising dough under his waistcoat,
Wampum the little Red Indian who lost
himself and was only found by Big Chief
Firebird in the nick of time, toys in a
Christmas window, and other tales, all
have a freshness and an endearing
quality. The line drawings are clear and
well done, matching the text with
humorous abandon. The book was
originally written in the form of plays
for the South African Broadcasting Cor-
poration. I read stories from both these
books to children in hospital, and they
were an immense success.
“He Went With Simon Bolivar”, by
G. M. Nelson, is one of the more ex-
citing stories in the “He went with —”
series, and would be a good addition to
any collection. It deals with the tragic
and adventurous life of the South Ameri-
can patriot Bolivar, who led the Vene-
zuelan revolt against its Spanish op-
pressors in the early years of last century.
John, who went with Bolivar, is the
fatherless English boy he adopted in
Paris, and became his helper and lieu-
tenant in their many campaigns. Bolivar’s
courage, perseverance, brilliant person-
ality and selfless love of his country will
attract all adventure-loving boys and girls.
Bolivar did not live to see the Federation
of the five countries he had liberated.
The incident when John and an Indian
threw a cavalry patrol one by one over
the edge of a ravine as they came in
single file round a narrow bend is told
with urgent economy, and I recommend
the account of the silent Council of
Condors in a vast empty valley ringed
by mountains. A strange and mystifying
piece of natural history about these great
black birds with a wingspan of up to
15 feet. We know too little about Latin
America and this book might stimulate
interest in that fascinating country.
Although the prose is not sparkling
and often lacks distinction, the book is
lucidly written and does what it sets out
to do, namely, to tell the true story of
a man with a passion for freedom; of
plot and battles and ambush, escape and
death. The line illustrations are moder-
ately good, sometimes having consider-
able dash, the jacket attractive. Maps add
to the interest.
Elisabeth Beresford’s “Missing For-
mula Mystery” might interest children
who enjoy detection stories. To me, there
are too many side issues, and the end a
let-down. There’s the villain window-
cleaner on a bike (Spider), the Mad
Scientist (woolly-minded Professor with
secret Formula No. 101), a television
commercial being filmed not far from
London, a bunch of investigating child-
ren, one of whom gets into a locked city
building, villain No. 2, a river chase and
finally Mad Scientist going off to work
out Formula No. 102. All the ingredients
for a cake are here but somehow it didn’t
rise and went a bit doughy in the middle.
The jacket is not inviting and one of the
boys on it looks as though made of wood.
I have mentioned the illustrations be-
cause books for children are worth good
contemporary work; wishy-v/ashy line
drawings are no longer good enough.
For the 8-16-year-old group, it is better
to have no pictures at all than indifferent
mediocrity or worse. Let the child’s own
imagination work. Australian publishers
please note.
KATHLEEN MONYPENNY


first lady
Rose Lindsay’s first book
has instantly made her the
first lady of the year. Ma
and Pa describes her child-
hood in Victorian Sydney,
a funny, touching story of
her parents’ crafty but warm
partnership and the nine
kids it produced. 25/-
funnyman
The Dinkumization and
Depommification of an Art-
ful English Immigrant is
Bernard Hesling's idea of
how he became an Aus-
tralian. His way of going
through life flitting from
perk to perk would be funny
enough were it fiction; but it
is all true, with most of the
characters still in the phone
book. 22/6
Published by URE SMITH
Available at all booksellers
Fancy Free
The Donkey Derby. Hester Knight.
Faber. 17s.
Lady Jane. C. V. Jamison. Hart-
Davis. 38s.
A Seraph in a Box. Robina Beckles
Willson. Hart-Davis. 15s. 6d.
The Challenge. Poul Knudsen.
Methuen. 345. 9d.
Tonga Tabu. Fritz Westphal. Methuen.
395. 9d.
Tf ester Knight’s “The Donkey Derby”
is a children’s book in best English
tradition. It introduces the seaside, the
country in all seasons especially high
summer and snowy winter extremely
nice people, and some rather cross ones,
but, above all, that current best-selling
ingredient, horses and allied animals.
In this case the hero is a lovable
donkey called Lucky, a practical fellow
who is not at all contented with his lot
of carrying horrid children for rides on
the sands. His future brightens consider-
ably when he is bought by a stud owner
as companion and steadying influence for
Lucifer, a highly bred yearling colt being
groomed for Derby and Oaks stardom.
Lucifer is temperamental won’t eat,
can’t sleep, is mettlesome. He scorns
the humble Lucky when he first arrives
to share his box, but is soon soothed by
his sensible attitude to life they’re
very talkative animals.
Derby Day looms nearer, but it is
Lucky who actually reaches stardom
first with his own particular Derby
“He thinks he’s a racehorse,” says an
admiring onlooker. When the famous
Derby comes round, Lucifer has his
glorious hour, but not without the faith-
ful “Moke’s” help. An endearing book
for readers aged 7-10.
C. V. Jamison’s “Lady Jane” is a
period piece, first written in the 1890 s.
The line drawings by Robin Jacques are
in keeping with the Victorian prose
sentimental, flowery, and dated. Lady
Jane, not really titled but nicknamed
thus by her recently deceased young
father, is a golden child, a model of
goodness, grace, intelligence, and gentle-
ness —a little aristocrat. She and her
beloved mama, travelling by train to New
York from Texas where they had lived
on a ranch, stop off at New Orleans for
a spell. But mama, alas, stricken with
fever, can go no further than the slum
doorstep of a stranger, Madame Jozain.
When she dies, Madame has her
buried, takes over the child and their
costly possessions which she sells at great
profit to herself and her no-good son.
She moves to another, though still
humble, neighborhood, where Lady Jane
immediately makes friends with all the
good people of the street who are
puzzled that a child, so pure and lady-
like, should belong to such an awful
woman.
Even when reduced to rags and beg-
ging, Lady Jane is still recognisable as a
cut above the rest. After many downs,
her star rises again right triumphs,
the “goodies” are rewarded, and the
“baddies” get just retribution.
One can laugh at the melodrama, but
there’s no denying that the intricate
plot is compulsive and the characterisa-
tions extremely good. A little girl of
8 to 11 might love the book. Let’s
hope it won’t give her ambitions above
her station!
Children of 11 or more with an in-
terest in music will enjoy Robina
Beckles Willson’s “A Seraph in a Box”.
Brother and sister, Alistair and Sarah
Byrd, are both music students in London.
In Liverpool to spend Christmas with a
family friend who is organising a local
Festival of Arts, they become involved
with a Nativity Play. Their friend
Monica, a ballet dancer, is producing the
play, but Alistair feels it needs music. So
he composes an “angelic” accompani-
ment, using as his inspiration an old and
unusual musical instrument which has
intrigued them at the Festival Exhibition.
The young people show an intellectual
approach to their research on the instru-
ment, and unearth some real history
about a visit of Mozart to England. An
old bookshop and a friendly boy help in
their search for knowledge, and an
interest in junk shops involves Sarah in a
chase for a thief.
A straightforward, practical book, not
madly exciting, but with good back-
ground material.
A boy of 12 and upwards with a taste
for ancient history and daring deeds will
enjoy Poul Knudsen’s “The Challenge”,
based on actual happenings o: about
AD 10.
Odbjorn, blond 17-year-old son of a
defeated chief, living on the far north
coast of Denmark, rides south to find
his fortune so that he can return with
his own ship and restored power. His
companion and guide is a Roman mer-
chant, Serbulus, whom he has saved from
drowning after shipwreck. En route, they
encounter warring German tribes, and
Roman legions, where Serbulus tricks
and betrays the young northerner by
selling him to a slave dealer.
In chains, Odbjorn is marched across
the Alps to Rome, is sold again to a
charioteer syndicate, becomes a stable
boy, and ultimately friend to a famous
charioteer. The chariot races in the
great Circus Maximus provide some
real excitement, and when Odbjorn,
standing in for his master, takes part in
a race, the pace really does quicken.
Trickery, recapture, escape, more de-
feats and failures are in store for Od-
bjorn before he can return to his own
land.
This book, which was awarded First
Prize for Children’s Fiction in Scan-
dinavia 1960, has been translated from
the Danish.
To the South Seas for another book
of adventure for teenage boys, also,
“Tonga Tabu”, by Fritz Westphal.
William Mariner, young cadet,
survives massacre by Tongans of the
crew of a British ship sunk olf Lifuka,
an island of the Tongan group, in 1806.
Taken ashore as prisoner, William at
first resists indoctrination but finds in
due course that he can easily adopt the
natives’ customs of dress and eating;
and he soon learns their language. Be-
fore long he, too, becomes a warrior
his job is to fire the ship’s cannons
against enemy tribes. But William can
never condone the senseless killings and
sacrifices, nor can he forget England
and his mother. He longs to go home.
His best friend is Talo, son of a big
chief. Talo is curious, ready to listen to
William’s pleas for peace. When at last
William’s ship literally does come in,
Talo, so sold on civilisation, pleads to
go with him to England.
The book is illustrated with strong and
dramatic black and white drawings.
There are some vivid descriptions, and
many good solid facts. On the w'hole,
however, the action is ponderous.
JOYCE BURWARD


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Investing in Expansion
Investors are set a major task to assess future investment
prospects in a world of changing political situations At v
home in Australia, vigorous expansion plans were outlined
in electioneering before November 30. If all promises are
carried out, a vigorous period of growth lies ahead, but with
credit restraints an obvious necessity to contain inflationary
trends.
Abroad, it is apparent that the US Administration under
Lyndon B. Johnson will get its testing time, not only from
abroad but from sectional groups in America who were
opposed to some of the Kennedy plans. No further evidence
is needed than the excessive delays in legislation which
preceded the death of Mr Kennedy.
In Britain, another political crisis looms in 1964 and,
despite the recent indications of national growth at the
impressive rate of 6 p.c. p.a., there is still plenty of unused
capacity in Great Britain and the critics are asking how long
this expansion will continue. If the rate of advance continues,
and unemployment continues to fall, there will be agitation for
restraints as an offset to inflation.
These outside influences have an effect on Australia’s
commodity prices, and it is sometimes overlooked that Aus-
tralia had many unexpected benefits in 1963 when good prices
were paid for wool, meat, sugar,
etc., and there were windfall
sales of wheat and flour because
of overseas crop failures.
Statistically, economic in-
dicators in Australia rarely
have been so good and already
there are definite signs of a
shortage of skilled labor in
several industries. Certainly,
there will be plenty of un-
skilled young people leaving
school early in 1964 and their
placement will cause a prob-
lem. But there is an abundance
of money at the disposal of in-
dustry if it cares to undertake
renewed capital expansion.
Unfortunately, it also must
be recognised that the surplus
liquidity in the economy is, in
itself, a special circumstance. As soon as everyone starts spend-
ing and capital expansion mounts, inevitably it is discovered
that too many people are tooling up for supplying the same
goods on a limited market. Unless there is a corresponding
growth in export sales, the local market is insufficient to
justify rapid expansion by manufacturers.
The build up in liquidity was not some haphazard happening.
It goes back to such influences as the boom and surplus
production of refrigerators, TV sets, radios, which the trade
attempted to sell to the public at fixed high prices and which
collapsed when surplus stocks and price-cutting crumpled the
structure and caused many a retailer to crash into the bargain.
Prospects of the Australian brick industry are reviewed in
an article beginning on page 61. “Analyst” also examines
the company Brickworks Ltd on page 74.
Analysis of conditions in other parts of the world reveals
similar situations from time to time. And, as manufacturers
know, the cycle starts to repeat itself every few years.
Remember when everyone climbed the band waggon in the
race to market room air conditioners? The slump in pro-
duction in the past three years shows the disappointment which
occurred when the market reached saturation point.
In these situations, the investor must stick to the proved
policies of selecting an obviously expanding industry and
investing only in those companies whose balance sheet has
proved the test of time through earlier booms and recessions.
He will miss out on some of the small, rapidly-rising companies
which will show spectacular results. But he will run less risk
of capital loss.
Why So Much Caution,
Asks “the ’Wales”
A fter looking at the cloudless economic sky in its latest
Quarterly Review, the Bank of New South Wales finds
“the cautious tone of much of business sentiment’' the more
remarkable and searches for an
explanation.
Part, it says, probably lies in
the continued presence of excess
industrial capacity and result-
ing narrow profit margins.
Other influences stem from the
unfolding of several notable
instances of spectacular mis-
calculation in the over-heated
conditions of the 1960 boom.
On a less drastic scale, several
other companies are under-
going a period of re-organisa-
tion and consolidation after ear-
lier over-enthusiastic diversifica-
tion and expansion of activities.
Then what of the cloud of
inflation some purport to see on
the horizon? The Bank says two
grounds exist, however, for ap-
prehension about a possible renewal of inflation Redemption
of either of the rival election bids will require a considerable
expansion of Government expenditure. At the same time,
dissemination through the economy of the recent increases
in wage margins is adding to industrial costs at a critical
stage of business revival.
With reasonable luck, the Bank believes that both burdens
may be absorbed by the growth of national income and im-
proved productivity, but the margin of stability will be fine
and will allow little scope for further general increases in
wage rates in the coming year.
It also thinks developments in primary industry have been


no less important even if they have received less general pub-
licity than the achievements of manufacturing. Largely as a
result of the application of scientific knowledge and consider-
able capital investment, the volume of rural output has risen
about 40 p.c. in the past decade in the face of an appreciable
decline in the rural labor force.
The full consequences of this improvement have been masked
by the decline in export prices over that period, “the ’Wales”
says, but it appears that the price trend has been at least
hai "d in the oast two years. For the immediate future the
prospect of enhanced export earnings offers a sound basis for
revival of business activity and a substantial lift in living
standards for the growing Australian economy.
Smarting under
“Stop and Go”
A pparently still smarting from the sting of stop and go,
at the annual meeting of National Consolidated Ltd in
Melbourne last week, the chairman, Mr J. O. Wilks, seemed
to suggest that such policies in some way “aimed at political
survival or advancement” and were being continued, warning
future Governments that the confidence of the business
community would depend on the adoption of a more
responsible attitude to the problems involved.
It is a pity Mr Wilks didn’t articulate, especially on his
sentence, “with the opportunities open at the present time, the
continuation of measures which resulted in the production of
a stop-and-go economy could only be regarded as incompetence
on the part of their proposers”.
What measures? One would think that since its sharp
political lesson ensuing from its application of ‘stop” three
years ago the Menzies Government has been bending over
backwards to avoid the repetition of an economic situation
which demanded another turn of the switch and that, going
on the return to full employment in the economy without
the generation of inflationary pressures, had succeeded pretty
well.
As for being geared to “political survival or advancement”,
surely nobody seriously believes that any Australian Govern-
ment of whatever political complexion would be irresponsible
enough to impose a credit squeeze with such a motive. As for
any political party having a “reckless attitude which breeds
instability and as a consequence loss of initiative and hesitation
in the minds of business leaders,” Mr Wilks should point the
bone more precisely and not equivocate.
Italy Goes for Specialised
Automated Machinery
ITigher wages in Italy have caused Italian manufacturers
to invest heavily in automated machine tools which use
punch cards and magnetic tape programme systems.
The trend to automation in Italy has been proceeding for
some time and last year local Italian makers of machinery were
unable to meet the demand, with the result that imports jumped
by 33 p.c. For this reason, the US Department of Commerce
is urging US manufacturers of specialised, automated machine
tools to get into the Italian market.
Other types of machinery required are food processing and
printing machinery, industrial air conditioning, refrigeration,
pumps and compressors, claims the US Department of Com-
merce. Americans are urged to cash in on their ability to offer
quick deliveries, and high-grade technical maintenance service.
The trend to more efficient and automated machinery sug-
gests that management in industrialised countries will need to
consider earlier scrappage rates.
And arguments such as “cheap labor” in countries like Italy
apparently are being given the lie.
National Packaging Body Aims
to Raise Standards
Packaging from paper and board, to box and carton, to
glass, to tinplate has already proved one of the most
notable growth sectors of Australian industry. It seems likely
to be even further responsive to the current demands of manu-
facturing expansion.
National Packaging—Australia is a body intent to see that
this progress takes place along the best technical and pro-
motional lines. The chairman, Mr C. R. E. Warren, reports
1963 as a year of very fruitful effort.
Mr Warren, re-elected chairman for 1964, is NSW manager
of ICIANZ’s films division.
He points out that National Packaging aims to extend know-
ledge of the principles of packaging; to assist the training of
personnel engaged in the industry; to facilitate the co-operation
of buyers, sellers and all interested parties in improving effi-
ciency; and to raise the status of packaging.
The year past saw activities moving towards a genuinely
national basis. For instance, the Brisbane forum was the first
held outside Victoria and NSW and also provided evidence
of a nation-wide improvement of packs entered in competition.
A first educational course, organised in Victoria, will soon
be completed. The second course is finishing its first year,
while a third-course is to begin early in 1964.
Perhaps one of 1963’s most significant moves was establish-
ment of a close official liaison with CSIRO’s Division of Food
Preservation and Transport. Regular joint meetings are to take
place.
600 Imps a Day
in 1964
IY/larket acceptance of special items (like EMl’s remarkable
1 success with recordings by The Beatles) is nowhere more
exemplified than Rootes’ success with its new Hillman Imp
car. Despite increasing competition in the small car field,
Rootes expects to reach a target of 600 Imps a day early in
1964.
Most of these are earmarked for export, and if sales match
production figures, the company- hopes to restore its fortunes.
Results for the year to July did not leave enough to pay the
4 p.c. ordinary dividend after writing off <£stg2m. development
expenses and £stg 1.95 m. depreciation. Doubtless the com-
pany was grateful for the generous investment depreciation
allowances introduced in the UK to foster increased manufac-
turing activities, if only because Rootes’ debenture interest
payments set a big task for profits.
Evidently directors are confident about the continued success
of the Imp, otherwise they would not have maintained a 4 p.c.
dividend, which left them in the red.
Another Boost Comes
for Queensland
Queensland gets another boost with the decision to spend
£som. on an alumina refinery at Gladstone.
Originally, the proposed production at Gladstone was
360,000 long tons, but this annual target has been raised to


600,000 long tons following the introduction of a new partner,
The Pechiney Company of France, which v/ill take 20 p.c. of
the output. Kaiser Aluminium of USA will take 44 p.c. of the
output, Aluminium Ltd of Canada and Pechiney each will take
20 p.c. and Comalco Industries 16 p.c.
The 16 p.c. output of alumina taken by Comalco (100,000
tons) will go to Comalco’s Bell Bay smelter in Tasmania. Pech-
iney also will purchase Weipa bauxite for shipment to its over-
seas plants.
Work will start on the Gladstone refinery in 1964 and the
Queensland Government will spend £4m. in providing addi-
tional public utility services for the plant and township. The
plant is scheduled for completion early in 1967.
The immense Weipa deposits of high-grade bauxite in Queens?
land owned by Comalco will be the source of raw material.
Extra funds will be spent here to deepen the channel and ex-
pand harbor shipping facilities, because existing production will
increase fivefold. So Queensland scores in two development
areas.
With the recent sugar boom and the intense oil exploration
activity, Queenslanders are cock-a-hoop over expansion pros-
pects, particularly after election talk about constructing a
Snowy River-type hydro-electric system in Queensland.
Consolidated Gold Fields to
Drop its S. African Label
Consolidated Gold Fields of South Africa, the UK-con-
trolled mining colossus which has been widening its in-
terests in Australia, now proposes to shorten its name by drop-
ping the words “of South Africa”. Its investments of
£stg26.4m. at June 30 include
fingers in many pies all over
the world, so the directors are
readily understood when they
say it is no longer appropriate
for the parent company to
have a geographical limitation
in its title.
Market value of its listed in-
vestments is getting up near
£stgsom., and its unlisted
interests would add many more
millions to this total.
The company’s policy has
been to take up about 50 p.c. of
the share capital in an overseas
subsidiary, although this may be
extended at a later date.
Its activities in Australia in-
elude a 57 p.c. shareholding in Commonwealth Mining Invest-
ments (Australia), a major holding in Wyong Minerals and a
60 p.c. interest in Associated Minerals. It also has invested in
the Mt Goldsworthy iron ore project in WA and has spent
money on its own account in exploration work.
Its £stgl shares are given a high rating in London, sel-
ling up near the 80s. mark to yield around 7 p.c.
“The Crowd Only Yawned”
at Cox Bros
Sir Frank Richardson’s intimation at the annual meeting
of Cox Bros that the group’s stocks have been pushed up
to about £ll million for the Christmas buying season means
that they have risen by close on £3i million since the last
accounting date, July 31, when the book figure was £7,581,907.
Sir Frank didn’t say how this accretion was being financed
Air Fares and Ollier Cost Levels
The graph above compares variations in the lowest Sydney-
London air fare with rising male wage and consumer price
levels. Source: Qantas Empire Airways annual report for
1962-63.
or what level the group’s bank overdraft (shown at £3,314,530
as at July 31) had reached.
Naturally the chairman was expecting a bumper season and
could show that turnover moved up 3 p.c. in August and
September, but admitted this rate was being held only with
difficulty. Conditions in the retail trade were very poor and
Cox Bros was in the middle of a very tough season.
Illustrating the cruel competition in the trade he told a
shareholder that after spending £l,OOO the previous weekend
on promoting big trade-in bargains for the following Monday,
offering interest-free terms and “using every trick in the
book”, the crowd “only yawned” because every other retailer
was offering the same terms.
Apart from the effect of competition on the level of trading
Cox Bros looks to have been caught in its own net hung out
to get shareholders into its stores by giving them discounts.
Sir Frank feared that the removal of the discounts would
mean a £3i million drop in turnover and the group wouldn’t
be able to reduce expenses to match it. Shareholders had com-
plained bitterly when they were charged an accounts fee of
255.- per £25 of goods in the first half of last year and the
board dropped it for the second half.
International Airlines Struggle
With Over-Capacity
resounding and repeated troubles afflicting British Over-
seas Airways Corporation attract painful attention to the
fascinating economics of international air transport. BOAC has
managed, by the latest year’s accounting, to pile up accumulated
losses totalling £BO million and this all in the course of the
last six years. Government investigation and reform are pro-
ceeding apace.
A British White Paper sums
up the world-wide situation:
‘"There is a growing pressure for
lower fares. If such a trend
develops, all but the lowest cost
airlines are likely to find them-
selves operating on very narrow
margins, if not at a loss.”
From a rather different point
of view that opinion gains sup-
port from the director-general of
the International Air Transport
Association, Sir William Hildred.
At the conclusion of his latest
annual report he maintains that
“low fares are the key to any
really massive future expansion
of the industry; the problem is
one of achieving much lower
fares with a small margin of profit. This is our objective.”
Yet, curiously, something around a seemingly low rate
of carriage at 50 p.c. capacity should bring a profit to an
efficiently run airline. Qantas’ success at holding fares in rela-
tion to other rising indexes, making air travel more appealing, is
illustrated by the accompanying graph.
Relatively low payloads have to yield profits, for the whole
industry is plagued with tremendous over-capacity. Continued
intimations of the position haunt Sir William Hildred’s report.
The problem does not get lessened by the enthusiastic move
into jets. “Every time a jet replaces a piston aircraft, at
least double the capacity is added. And so capacity increases
even if flight frequencies do not.”
One obvious solution is to make air travel much more
popular. “The traffic potential is immense and I continue to
believe that drastically reduced fares would draw many mil-
lions of new passengers to air transport,” says Sir William
hopefully.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Spending Shapes for a Spree
Buoyant Retail Sales Likely in Next Six Months
A ll signs point to a strong increase
in effective demand throughout the
economy in the next six months. This
seems bound to be reflected in the emer-
gence of a more normal pattern of con-
sumer spending, and, if supplemented by
a strong enough change in the propen-
sity to spend, could result in the most
buoyant period for retail sales yet ex-
perienced in Australia, even without what
seems certain to be significant assistance
from hire purchase finance.
In the meantime, the lopsided pattern
of public spending in which motor
vehicles are continuing to take the lion’s
share of the mounting spoils, is the most
puzzling feature of the economic scene.
Looking at it in its White Paper on
The Australian Economy 1963, issued
in June this year, the Treasury took this
view. “There have been predictions that
spending on motor vehicles will level off,
if not decline. It would certainly be sur-
prising if it were to continue to increase
at the rate of the past 12 months; but
that is not to say that it must decline.
If spending on motor vehicles does fall
back to a more moderate rate of increase,
greater consumer spending in other di-
rections could benefit other branches of
industry.”
Far from levelling off, spending on
motor vehicles has reached new heights.
From 27,299 in June, when the White
Paper was written, new registrations es-
tablished a new high of 35,898 in July,
eased to 33,370 in August and then pro-
ceeded to climb in successive months to
34,284 and another record of 36,189
in October. As November is usually a
better month for registrations than Oc-
tober, maybe another record was estab-
lished before the usual summer seasonal
decline sets in this month. (Last De-
cember registrations dropped from 32,208
to 26,930 and stayed around that level
until the pre-Easter revival began this
year.)
/Contrast this with what has been hap-
pening to retail sales of goods other
than motor vehicles and parts, petrol, oil,
etc. Whereas in September, the latest
month for which comparative statistics
are available, new motor registrations
were close on a quarter higher than in
the same month 1962, other retail sales
were only 2.3 p.c. higher than the pre-
vious September.
Indeed, retail sales have belied the signs
seen by the Treasury when working on
the April figures for the purposes of its
survey, in which it stated that, except
for motor vehicles, retail sales to that
stage in 1962-63 had been sluggish but
had started to move faster “in April
they are estimated to have been 4.4 p.c.
greater than a year earlier, compared
with an increase of 2.8 p.c. in the March
quarter, and conditions appear favorable
for a further increase.”
In fact, only in July has there been
a better comparison than April’s for any
month this year. In May the increase
over the corresponding month of 1962
was 2.9 p.c., in June 1.0, July 6.0, Aug-
ust 3.6 and, as shown above, only 2.3
p.c. in September, indicating an average
monthly increase of 3.3 p.c. in those five
months and 4.4 p.c. in April compared
with the same periods in 1962.
“Deflecting the unbalance of spending
preference as between motor vehicles
and other retail goods, the amount of new
hire purchase finance going into motor
vehicle purchases rose from £17.5 mil-
lion in April to £21.4 million in Sep-
tember (latest available details), whereas
new HP money going into household and
other personal retail goods increased only
from £3.2 million to £3.3 million be-
tween these two months although it
was higher in May (£3.6 million), July
(£3.5 million) and August (£3.4 mil-
lion).
In October, as outstanding HP bal-
ances of non-retail finance businesses rose
sharply from £429.9 million to £439.0
million, one would expect in the light of
the big increase in new vehicle registra-
tions that motors would have accounted
for practically the whole of the increase.
The September quarter figures for instal-
ment credit given by retail businesses as
distinct from non-retail finance businesses
are not yet available, but it is significant
that their balances outstanding at the
end of June were a fraction lower than
at the end of March that is £215.6
million as against £215.7 million
again confirming the apathy of the public
towards the general retail trade.
On the face of it, stocks held by the
retail trade in Melbourne at the end of
September gave no indication that the
trade was expecting a big uplift in sales
despite the approach of the Christmas
selling season, the possibility of a swing
in spending away from motor vehicles
to other goods and even of a general rise
in spending. For, in fact, stocks overall
were 6 p.c. lower than a year earlier.
Nor would it appear that stocks of
consumer goods have been greatly sup-
plemented by imports in recent months,
though on that point the latest detailed
overseas trade figure only relates to Sep-
tember. Most of the moderate increase
in imports from £367.4 million to
£378.3 million for the four months to
October over the same months of 1962
has been in raw materials and machinery.
Against that, the survey of industrial
trends recently undertaken by the Bank
of New South Wales and the Associated
Chambers of Manufactures of Australia
indicated that during the first fortnight
in November “stocks of finished goods
have continued to rise, contrary to ex-
pectation.”
This could indicate that manufacturers
are more confident of an uplift in retail
sales than the retailers themselves, many
of whom have tired of the long wait for
a strong revival in business, particularly
in durable consumables and furniture.
(Stocks of electrical goods and furniture
were down 33.1 and 22.7 p.c. respectively
in Melbourne retail stores at the end of
September compared with a year earlier).
Again, it could mean that the estab-
lished practice of retailers making manu-
facturers carry the main burden of stock
holding has gained further ground as a
result of the slowness of retail sales to
rise in the last few months.
on the latest imports of motor
components and parts, which were
cut by about a third in September, and
also from reports of reduced orders from
local component makers, it would seem
that motor manufacturers are now pre-
paring to let their stocks run down. But
whether this is in anticipation of the
quiet sales months from now to March
or whether the view is being taken that
this year’s record market will not be
equalled next year is a moot point.
One would have thought that the
Treasury’s view last June that there
is no reason to think that spending on
motor vehicles must decline may be
less strongly held now that demand has
proved to be so strong since, and satura-
tion point has been brought a little closer.
But, against that, motors like everything
else must sell well in such buoyant econ-
omic conditions as it is very reasonable
to expect next year.
But even if there is some falling off in
demand for motors this could be all to
the good next year, because it would
seem that if room is to be made for
much higher production of other goods,
which will be required to satisfy the big
increase expected in effective demand,
the motor industry will have to make a
lower claim on available resources than
it has this year.


LONDON COMMENT
Conservative and Labor Policies
A choice between Tweedledum and Tweedledee?
By SAMUEL BRITTAN
Tt has been a confusing week for any-
A one who honestly wants to sort out
the differences in economic policies be-
tween the two political parties. The whole
thing has come to resemble more and
more the rivalry among American cars,
with each model trying to incorporate all
the features of its rivals. The result, of
course, is that they become practically
indistinguishable.
Sir Keith Joseph has been talking
about the public ownership of land in
the new and expanded towns. The Prime
Minister has been proclaiming an
elaborate programme of Government
spending to be paid for by our “faster
growth,” rather as Mr Gaitskell was
doing at the last election. The Labor
Party, on its side, has become the party
of industrial efficiency and has promised
a practical programme of modernisation
free from ideology.
Indeed at times it is easy to get the
models confused. During one of the re-
cent House of Commons debates Mr
Callaghan was already speaking with the
cautious voice of the Treasury, while Mr
Maudling—for the first time since he
became Chancellor —committed himself
to the much more optimistic estimates of
Britain’s productivity potential implied in
the National Economic Development
Council’s report.
Moreover, most of the charges that
each party is bringing against the other
do not even begin to connect. The Con-
servative charge that Labor would im-
pose from the centre a lot of detailed
controls telling each industrialist what to
produce, and for which market, is frankly
absurd. It has absolutely no connection
either with Wilson’s own views or with
the views of those who are going to
count in the detailed formulation of
Labor policy. The Labor Party is thinking
very much in terms of co-operation, dis-
cussion and targets, on Neddy lines but
involving the Government more closely
—what the French call “indicative plan-
ning”.
HThere is, of course, a wing of the
Labor Party that dislikes industrial
change, automation or foreign com-
petition and treats innovation as an un-
desirable threat to someone’s traditional
livelihood. But this wing is plainly not in
the ascendant; indeed, its closest in-
tellectual affinity is to the Right-wing
Tory malcontents who wrote letters to
“The Times” against the so-called mater-
ialism of Mr Macmillan’s Administra-
tion.
The Left-wing suspicion that the Con-
servatives are hankering to go back to
laissez-faire is equally wide of the mark.
Just as the Labor Government was
moving in its last years towards a far
greater reliance on free enterprise and
the profit motive, so there has been a
sea-change in attitudes towards Govern-
ment intervention during the last two or
three Conservative years.
The need has been recognised to look
ahead several years in general financial
policy, in the public sector, in transport
and in regional planning and to have an
incomes policy. These trends, which arose
out of the deficiencies of the hand-to-
mouth policies of the past, are most un-
likely to be reversed even if the result
of the next election is not the one sug-
gested by the public opinion polls.
On individual issues, ranging from
land use to economic planning, the real,
fierce disputes are between rival experts
on the same political side of the fence,
who disagree with one another far more
vehemently than with their nominal
opponents.
VTone of this means that the two
parties are absolutely identical in
economic approach. One cannot ignore
the question of individuals.
Here the Labor Party’s obvious ad-
vantages in Harold Wilson do not need
to be labored. Among the worst defects
of Conservative economic policy has
been that it has been carried out by the
Chancellor or other specialists working
in a separate corner. Economic affairs
have never formed part of a common
strategy involving the Prime Minister and
the Cabinet as a whole.
Nor is this just a coincidence. Anyone
following parliamentary debates over a
number of years discovers that the issues
that get Conservative MPs excited are
such matters as defence policy, Britain’s
standing abroad, and personal morality.
Tories may also get worked up over
hardship to small property-owners, as in
the case of rates, but very rarely over
big economic issues. Hardly any pro-
minent industrialists now sit on the Con-
servative benches.
But the Prime Minister cannot do
everything, and at the next level the
Conservatives have a clear advantage.
Not even the staunchest Labor supporters
could claim that Brown and Callaghan
have a better feeling for finance and in-
dustry than Maudling and Heath.
On the other hand, Labor Ministers
would probably be much more prepared
to make discreet use of advisers from
the universities and industry. The Con-
servatives still believe in getting all their
policy advice from career civil servants.
Once actually in office in 1964 the
two parties would start off with slightly
different prejudices in their favor. As
one very astute politician privately re-
marked a few months ago: “The Con-
servatives would start off with an ad-
vantage worth a few hundred million
with the men of Zurich. The Labor
Party has a similar advantage in wages
policy because of its union links.”
Dut the broad facade of similar policy
is broken by one great weakness on
each side. In the case of the Labor
Party its Achilles heel is its attitude to
the price mechanism. Whenever there is
a social problem, whether of land or of
rents, its instinctive reaction is to freeze
prices. This, of course, leads to shortages,
queues and allocations; and, most im-
portant of all, removes the incentive for
people to increase the supply. I wonder,
as Norman Macrae has done in his study,
“Sunshades in October,” whether the re-
cent improvement in working-class living
standards has failed to be reflected in
improved housing because of the very
fact that the rents have been controlled.
The Conservative soft spot is, of
course, the party’s attitude to property.
No sensible person designing the tax
system from the beginning would leave
capital and land scot free and put all the
burden on income. For those who know
the ropes, the way to make a fortune
and keep it out of the hands of the tax
collector is to transform income into
capital. The only sizeable tax on capital
—estate duties—is full of loopholes, and
it is extremely unlikely that any Con-
servative Chancellor will ever plug them
effectively.
These two great weaknesses are
closely connected. For if wealth and
capital gains were effectively taxed, there
would be less objection to using the
price mechanism for housing and land.
Indeed it would be better to nationalise
land than to control its price.
Finally, both parties seem equally un-
radical on the subject of sterling. Many
Conservatives still regard the £ as a
status symbol, and others want to make
sure the Labor Party stays the party of
devaluation.
This is a perfect example of how, on
a vital issue, the Tory has arrived by a
different route at the same destination
as the Socialist. For Labor, having been
responsible for one devaluation, is under-
standably but painfully reluctant to incur
the odium of another, (ofns.)


Bssl
wtiz*!
■m,
/ym'
ria
ff
s s s s sisiisisiapis
ss a a a s a sjia s a s
f ??s a a-:
5 23322238,3 2 H
3e
f
Your gift problems are solved with the amazing little
Underwood 18 Portable Typewriter. Perfect for student
sons and daughters and for wives, fathers and mothers!
Full-size features in a lightweight compact typewriter.
Comes complete in a zip-up executive carrying case!
What a gift! Pop one in that special someone’s pillowslip
on Christmas Eve. Special Santa-Terms available now.
Price: 30 Gns. (including case).
PROFIT BY THE EXPERIENCE OF
STOTT &
UNDERWOOD
AUSTRALIA ’* SPECIALISTS IN PROGRESSIVE RVSINESS EQUIPMENT
«wr
SYDNEY: 254 George Street 27-1182
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Canberra, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Lismore, Geelong, Townsville.
Please send me full details of the lightweight
Underwood 18 portable typewriter.
NAME
ADDRESS
953/63
Marketing Worries Beset Coal
TlThen the latest annual report of the
Joint Coal Board was published
towards the end of October, a consider-
able volume of Press and other comment
tended to concentrate upon one special
aspect coal’s urgent battle with rival
fuels and notably petroleum products.
The expression of that particular
theme has been the JCB’s running pre-
occupation for quite a few years. This
time it sounded very topical, coming in
the middle of coal-owner Mr R. W.
Miller’s complicated attempts to get the
best of both worlds by establishing a
coastal oil-tanker service.
Now the exigencies of a Federal
election campaign have thrust forward
somewhat wider matters affecting the
NSW coal industry. Whatever the merits
of charges and counter-charges on
nationalisation, the debate must event-
ually lead to an intensive re-examination
of marketing problems.
That note has already been struck by
the JCB, yet it was perhaps a little
ignored in highlighting the coal-oil clash.
The 1962-63 report says plenty about
the whole marketing position.
On sheer organisational grounds there
does not seem much basis for pessimism.
The industry at present wears a far
better look than an easily remembered
past.
The Board, however, induces a
measure of pessimism by remarking that
NSW coal mining “is at present going
through another period of some years
during which there will be little growth”.
The 1962-63 year saw a fall from 1961-
62’s record production and the peak can
hardly be bettered before 1964-65 “at
the earliest”.
Any conceivable form of future in-
quiry covering the industry must accept
the marketing challenge and must plainly
start with the situation of the non-captive
mines, on current prospects not destined
for too-happy trading.
The reverse applies to captive mines,
those “owned or controlled by an author-
ity or company which itself consumes
the whole or a substantial portion of the
output”. Such owners include BHP (the
largest producer in NSW), the Electricity
Commission, the State Mines Control
Authority and some cement companies,
so their assured markets are under-
standable.
The Board shows no hesitation in
stating that sales of tied or captive col-
lieries will continue to rise, “but on the
present outlook the sales of non-captive
collieries will probably continue to fall,
at any rate so far as concerns their Aus-
tralian sales.”
In the end the changing trends among
energy sources might well affect the in-
dustry as a whole. Thus an inquiry
would widen into the most general ques-
tions.
Coal’s share of the primary energy
market fell from 65.9 p.c. in 1953-54
to 54.1 p.c. in 1961-62, and again to
52.0 p.c. in 1962-63. NSW not only
meets the petroleum challenge, but con-
fronts erosion from hydro-electric power,
brown coal and low-grade black coals.
Rather plaintively the Board observes
that “competition in the Australian
energy market from petroleum products
was not severe until the expansion of
the refining industry after 1954”.
There is not necessarily any easy solu-
tion in urging a more resolute chase after
exports. Here competition looks just as
fierce, to say the least.
Japan has latterly offered the most
prominent market. The South Coast’s
hard coking coals and mediums from the
Burragorang Valley look set for expand-
ed shipments. On the other hand, soft
coking coals from the Northern Districts
are suffering a slump.
Hovering over all is the Japanese
Government’s programme of modernis-
ing its domestic coal industry, with a
consequent lessening of imports.
Issues such as these, given in the bar-
est outline, genuinely call for a deep,
and not pre-ordained, investigation.


«J)X
O
ft
HOW FAR DO YOU HAVE TO MAKE A POUND STRETCH ?
Big income earners and small income
earners alike plan for their families’
future security. The more a single £1
means to you the more carefully you
must plan to be sure you and your
family are getting maximum benefit for
the money you spend.
How much would your family need to
live the way you want them to live?
How can such an income be provided
for them?
An A.M.P. FAMILY SECURITY
CHECK-UP will provide the answer
to these vitally important questions.
A
FOUR POINT S&2S3
FAMILY SECURITY
CHECK-UP
Your A.M.P. man knows, from training and
experience, how to help you—
Q Check the facts related to your present family and
financial position.
0 Check the extent of your needs what would be
required if your family had to live without you
what you will require on retirement or to take
advantage of long service leave.
0 Check to find if the provisions you have made are
adequate.
A If they are not, your A.M.P. man will show you a
v family security plan tailor-made to your precise
needs and circumstances.
An A.M.P. Family Security Check-Up costs you nothing but a
little of your time—involves you in no obligation except to those
you love. All you have to do is to call in your A.M.P. man or
call the nearest A.M.P. Office.
AUSTRALIA'S
No. 1
LIFE OFFICE
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE
Offices in cities and towns throughout Australia, New Zealand and in the United Kingdom.
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by assets exceeding £600,000,000 which the Society seeks to
invest to the greatest benefit to members.


P6J2S2-
r» £S . f
MSB
FREE: 2 Bookleis: Atomic Motor
ing Age. Historical Facts Motor
Repairs, Economy Hints.
NU-MOTO-LIFE NU-METAL (Pat.)
OVERHAULS WHILE-U-DRIVE
REPLATES worn engines, upper
cylds. main bearings, cliffs, gears
SAVES rebore. ENDS piston slap
rattles, oil/petrol waste Also
decarbonises RESTORES new
compression power, top speed
zip. SAVES. Adds £sd to resale
value GUARANTEED 25,000
miles. No results—no pay. Harm
less finest engine. SIMPLE. Add
Re-Nu expanding liquid Nu-Moto-
Life Nu-Metal to oil. petrol or
plug holes. Testimonials, en-
gineers' reports, free advice
available. Open Sat. morn. Dis-
tributors required. Sold only by
RE-NU CO (Estab. 1932) 58
Swan St., opp. Richmond Stn.,
Vic - 42-1755 4, 6. 8 cyls.:
60/-, 70/-, 80/-.
Call, Post, Phone Now.
(ORDER FORM)
I enclose £ for Nu Metal.
Name
Address "BUL."
or send for free particulars
describing action NU-MOTO-LIFE
NU-METAL.
“CROESUS”
Broker Still Shouting the Odds
Stock Exchanges Should Exercise Control
¥>eople like to hear what Mr Stani-
forth Ricketson is thinking about
the financial state of Denmark because
over many years he has established him-
self as a mature observer. But once again
it seems necessary to question the appro-
priateness of this leading Melbourne
broker using the chair of one of Capel
Court’s listed investment companies to
proffer advice to the world in general
to buy shares. I have long thought
and said so on previous occasions that
if a broker thinks the time is ripe to buy
shares he should restrict the circulation
of his views to the clients of his share-
broking firm.
If it is answered that it is the pre-
rogative of company chairmen, if they
wish to use it, to dilate widely on matters
affecting the particular business of their
companies and even extending to far-
ranging political and economic influ-
ences, that is not an entirely satisfactory
answer in the case of a member of the
Stock Exchange when it comes to the
prospects for share prices.
Nor is it a satisfactory answer to say
that because several times a year for
many years past Mr Ricketson has been
using the vehicle of the Capel Court
investment companies to air his views
on the share market this makes it right.
It only shows that the committee of the
Stock Exchange of Melbourne should
perhaps look a good deal deeper into this
doubtful practice.
Tndeed, the committee of this quasi-
public body might well look further
than the aspect of propagating views on
share buying and include the matter of
brokers being chairmen and directors of
public companies. For although not sug-
gesting that Mr Ricketson or any other
broker is abusing this practice, the possi-
bility of it occurring is very real. It would
seem to be in the interest of the Stock Ex-
change and- the public alike to narrow it
considerably as soon as possible. Failing
that, a Government vigilant of the public
interest might feel compelled to do it for
them.
In its most unfavorable light the dis-
semination to the public by brokers in
their capacity as company chairmen of
advice to buy shares could be regarded
as touting for business both by the
brokers concerned and (they being ac-
cepted members of stock exchanges) by
the stock exchanges themselves. This is
despite the committee’s very strict re-
strictions placed on advertising by mem-
ber brokers and the objective quality of
advertisements put out by some of the
Australian stock exchanges, of which
Sydney’s instructive ads are notable
examples.
Whether touting and incitement of the
public to buy is the intention or not of
brokers engaged in the practice, nobody
will deny that the actual effect is to
bring in buyers. When Mr Ricketson
says it is time to get into the market, a
good many people besides his clients take
his advice, which on this occasion is as
strong and as urgent as he could possibly
make it.
last week shareholders of Jason
-*■ Investment Company (Australia) Ltd
were told to buy, and printed copies
were circulated to the press for public
dissemination in these terms under the
heading “Prompt Investment Advisable.”
“It could well be,” he said, “that when
the election has removed political un-
certainties, the local investor will give
greater acknowledgment to the sound
state of the economy. Any further decline
in the interest rates available on fixed
interest securities could also stimulate
greater activity in equity investment. This
could lead to a general strengthening of
share prices, and investors are recom-
mended to take early action if they are
to benefit from this situation. In par-
ticular, the sectors of the economy, such
as home building, w'hich will receive
definite stimulation irrespective of which
party gains power, should prove profit-
able avenues for investment.”
No doubt whatever the grounds for
this statement, Jason shareholders as well
as the world beyond were pleased to
hear it, for even discounting one or two
false starts by the Capel Court stable
over the last two years (its “Time To
Buy” message in mid-1961 was particu-
larly badly timed) it probably confirmed
what they’ve been thinking themselves
with so much latent spending and invest-
ment power in the system and with every
politician in the country anxiously pro-
fessing his dedication to a higher rate of
growth despite the obvious present pres-
sure on labor resources.
But who will doubt that w'hen Mr
Ricketson speaks such strong phrases this
in itself is an incitement to the very
speculation which he so often has ab-
horred and which is in the worst interests
of the economy. A few prods like that
from leading brokers in investors’ arms
would soon set them jostling to lift share
prices to dangerous heights in the same
mad fashion as in 1960 when Mr Ricket-
son jibed that they were discounting
eternity.
Quite apart from its violation of his
other role as broker and senior partner
in J. B. Were & Son, such a glowing
account of share market prospects was
not essential even for shareholders of
Jason who, as investors in the company,
would presumably be mainly interested
in the quality of its management and
would be relying on it to take a correct
view of the market prospect in the in-
vestment of their subscribed funds.
No, the message, put as it was in a
general conspectus entitled “Politics and
Prosperity” and outside the general dis-
cussion on the company’s affairs for the
year, was obviously directed wider afield
and read as an open invitation to the
public to buy shares. On that ground it
should never have been spoken.
If Mr Ricketson thinks that in future
he will feel as strongly as this on the
outlook for share prices, he would be
well advised to keep his direct advice
confidential to the clients to J. B. Were &
Son and hand over the chair of the Capel
Court investment companies to people
not connected with the Stock Exchange.
This would put him on the same footing
as most other brokers in Melbourne,
which is as it should be.


NOW
GIFT-PACKED 1
FOR CHRISTMAS
UMIIIIIII)
8^
BELLS
;'uvuyjeCC
Fillers Scotland
fezsszMf^
BELLS
the Celebration Scotch
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd.,
ik Distillers, Perth, Scotland.
® An Independent Hou>c
8W8.62N
BOOK REVIEW
Keeping Economic Pots
On the Boil
“Sunshades in October”, by Norman Macrae. Published by
George Allen & Unwin.
11/’hen the quiet, willowy figure of
V Norman Macrae joined the editorial
staffs of “The Banker” and “The
Economist”, which work under the same
roof in London's West End, it wasn’t im-
mediately obvious that here was an angry
young man with fire in his belly who
would come to produce some of the
hottest books yet written on economic
themes. But Sir Geoffrey Crowther soon
spotted his flair for fine words and before
he had time to warm his seat at “The
Economist” dispatched him for a spell
of streamlining to “Time” office in New
York, a step “The Economist” never
regretted.
That was in 1949 around the time
when post-war economic pressures in
Britain had finally found relief in an
inevitable devaluation of sterling. Fresh
from his economics textbooks Macrae
would have been among the last to think
of devaluation as a terrible thing and it
is obvious from his latest work, “Sun-
shades in October”, that all these years
he has been nurturing his predilection
that exchange depreciation is a wholly
acceptable safety valve for fully pres-
surised economies.
Macrae has been one of the sternest
critics of stop-and-go policies in Britain.
Indeed, he begins this book with a
cynicism which illustrates his general
contempt for Government economic
advisers “In Siam they once had an
economic adviser to the Government
called Prince Dam Rong” and con-
tinues enthusiastically throughout its 179
pages to pour similar scorn on what he
considers the series of ill advised credit
squeezes engineered by British Govern-
ments since the post-war Dalton infla-
tion.
Macrae, like Mr Calwell, is one of
those people who thinks the economic
pot can be kept on the boil all the time
and sneers at those who, as a concession
to the maintenance of the value of
money, prefer it merely to simmer. These
are not only the super-growth men; they
are also men who think they have
economic magic up their sleeve to stop
inflation in its tracks even after irrepres-
sible inflationary pressure has been
generated by their own policies.
In my book, irrespective of politics,
these people are irresponsible, if not
mad. Nobody likes credit squeezes,
which in any case are as wasteful of
economic and human resources as the
inflation which usually brings them on.
Timing is critical, and for this country
perhaps economic advisers are handi-
capped more than they are in Britain
where public investment, being more
under the control of the centra 1 Govern-
ment, is so much more flexible.
Blit Macrae's book is not interested so
much in reflation as in what he sees as
the iniquity of credit squeezes. He cer-
tainly makes some good points on their
effect on costs, saying that in many
industries these rise rather than fall when
the squeeze on demand reduces pro-
duction. But as we saw in the recent
recession there is some compensation in
that. After a boom such as we had here
in 1960, the return of more competitive
conditions can result in some offsetting
economies with the removal of unneces-
sary froth in industry. This could easily
be blown up in the event of the economy
being brought to the boil again on
Macrae or Calwell lines.
In effect Macrae’s idea is to stabilise
inflation by getting the International
Monetary Fund to bolster the balances
of payments of the economies of the
world by injecting liquidity in the shape
of its own paper into them at a minimum
rate of 3 p.c. a year. In other words
in the interest of keeping national
economic pots on the boil he would
make inflation internationally respectable.
This is tantamount to admitting that
the pots can’t be kept on the boil with-
out inflation. Even if such a scheme
were practicable, the problem of internal
adjustment of fixed incomes would re-
main, so I would settle for the occasional
credit squeeze with improved timing to
lessen their severity. J.C.H.


Brick Industry’s Bright Future
" They Can’t Go Back On Election Promises"
- Brick manufacturers are hopeful
that the housing assistance pro-
gramme outlined during the elec-
tion campaign will boost the sales
of bricks. But they are not taking
it for granted. The testing period
will be in 1964, say brickmakers
who currently are enjoying season-
■ ally higher sales. Shortage of
labor has become a problem with
some manufacturers and several
report they are behind in their
deliveries. Despite the cautious
comments of some, the industry
—“faces the future with confidence.”
With an upswing in new building
approvals, and an upsurge in
home purchases to stem from
election promises, brick manufacturers
are reporting higher sales and expect
even better.
Production of clay bricks in Australia
was a record in October. Indeed, produc-
tion since June seems to indicate a com-
plete recovery from the credit squeeze
and possibly a tendency towards further
increases.
In June 86.6 million clay bricks were
produced. In July output rose to 102.3
million and in August to 104.3 million.
It eased slightly to 101.2 million in
September and then recovered encourag-
ingly to 115.7 million in October.
Annual production also indicates a
healthier industry. Before the effects of
the credit squeeze were felt fully in
1960-61, annual production was 1061
million bricks. But in 1961-62, after
stocks had fallen and production resumed
to meet supply, output was down to
995 million. In 1962-63 it rose again to
1054 million.
Based on production figures for July,
August, September and October the
annual rate approaches the 1300 million
mark. So the brick manufacturers are
happy . . . and confident.
Typical of Sydney brick manufacturers
is Mr S. Galbraith, managing director
of Cumberland Tile and Brick. “Sales
are up 33J p.c.,” he said. “We’re getting
more trade as a result of the increased
new building approvals. It seems to be
affecting the whole industry. If one yard
is doing well, then all do well. If one
drops, then all drop. In early 1960
there was a waiting list for bricks.
“Then when the credit squeeze came
we started to stockpile there was no
waiting list. Now there is a bit of a delay,
although not in all types of bricks.”
Mr Galbraith forecasts a healthy fut-
ure for the industry. “You only have to
look at Brickworks Ltd with its new
plant at Wallgrove. If directors are con-
fident that it will be a good investment
then I think you can say we’re in for
a good time.”
Brickworks Ltd’s managing director,
Mr W. K. Dawes, said the industry, fol-
lowing a slow period after the credit
squeeze, had now recovered. “Especially
in the last six or eight weeks when we’ve
been flat out,” he said. “In our texture
brick section there is a waiting list. In
cream bricks also there is a waiting list.
In common bricks we are holding our
own, but in face bricks it’s a little bit
slow.
“Our yards in Sydney are capable of
producing four million bricks a week.
But labor is a problem. Since the credit
squeeze men have drifted away from the
industry. For a while there was just no
work for them. It’s hard to attract them
back.
“I don’t know how long this good run
will last. We got a knock in 1952 and
another in 1960 when will the next
one be? You can’t run a business like a
jack-in-the-box and still keep on an
even keel.
“/Government housing policy outlined
before the elections will keep us
going,” he said. “They are trying to help
people build homes and it’s certainly not
the cost of bricks that makes it so
hard. The deposit gap is far too big for
most young people who want to build.”
According to Mr R. N. Hocking,
managing director of Canterbury Dis-
trict Brick Co., sales of bricks should
not be related too closely to the increase
in new building approvals. “Things have
not improved other than the normal
upsurge that happens at this time of
year,” he said. “We’re always flat to
the boards at this time of year. The
only barometer of the trade is after
Christmas.
“We have bricks in stock right now.
If you want any, all you have to do is
ask. It was very bad up to July but
then the business started to pick up and
now the position is good. This is the
first real improvement since the credit
squeeze. When the squeeze came we
shut down part of the plant and we were
still stacking bricks. Up till July we still
had part of the plant shut down and a
big stack of bricks.
“One of the reasons for the bad period
earlier this year was the rain. When that
started busiress really dropped off.
the weather broke round about June it
started to kick on again. But we still
have part of the plant closed down.
“I’m not very enthusiastic about next
year. If things were going to be busy
then we wouldn’t have bricks stacked
now. Our production is about the same
as it was this time last year, certainly
not any higher.
“I don’t think trade will pick up now
after the election. I’ve been hearing
these promises for housing programmes
for years now and it has never affected
business.”
Mr Hocking added that more and
more people were turning to bricks as
a building medium. The fibro house
seemed to have died out and there were
far fewer timber houses being built.
Brick veneer had taken over in most
cases.
Water Board contracts and the in-
crease in building approvals is giving
Warringah Brick and Pipe Works Pty
Ltd increased sales, said an executive of
the firm. He said Warringah Brick pro-
duced pipes and bricks in the ratio 75
to 25.
“We’re flat out on bricks and pipes at
the moment,” he said. “Since about
May, I would say, it seems to have
picked up. Bad weather held up a lot
of construction work. Now we find our
sales are well ahead of last year; 10 p.c.
better, in fact.
“The Water Board’s sewerage work
in a lot of areas in Sydney has helped
our pipe sales. Bricks are selling very
well, too. Sales after the credit squeeze
went down for 18 months. Now they
have recovered to the pre-November,
1960, level.”
Clark Kilns, a wholly-owned sub-
sidiary of Blue Metal Ind. Ltd, with an
annual production capacity of 30 to 32
million bricks, was behind in deliveries,
managing director Mr G. J. Aitken said.
“I won’t say how far behind we are . . .
just say it’s substantial. We always keep
a stockpile of about 100,000 bricks for
an emergency, but we rarely touch
them.”
Mr Aitken said the brick industry
faced a good future. It wouldn’t matter
which party was in power. Either would
have to honcr its housing promises and
unless there were another credit squeeze
there would be no reason for a fall-off.
“When proposed Commonwealth
housing policy is put into operation it
will give a lift to many sections of


WORLD MARKETS
»»
m
BY OVERSEAS
TELEPHONE
'
W/
m
Reach important overseas markets fast—in the easiest
and most convenient way—Overseas Telephone!
Enjoy local exchange clarity and much faster connection
by using the coaxial cable to New Zealand and Fiji—first
link in the new Commonwealth Pacific Cable (COMPAQ
which will extend to Britain, Europe and North America
in December.
Overseas calls are reasonably priced, too—a three-
minute call to New Zealand is only 37/6; to Fiji 47/-
(minimum rate).
THE OVERSEAS
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
| COMMISSION (AUSTRALIA)
f Australian Partner in the British Commonwealth
Telecommunications System
O.T.C. HOUSE, 12 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY. 2 0544
©T.22
industry,” Mr Aitken said. “Building is
a good barometer of prosperity because
there are so many suppliers and workers.
New building approvals are up and
there seems to be no reason why they
shouldn’t continue to rise.”
Mr Aitken said the credit squeeze had
affected Clark Kiln’s sales “But we
were never in the position of having to
stack bricks. The only time we have
had to stockpile was in 1956 when we
had about 450,000 to 500,000 stacked.
“We are facing the future with quiet
confidence. Overall, I think that the
public pressure for building is going to
force the Government to do more for
housing. Neither party can go back on its
promises,” Mr Aitken added.
Mr T. Edwards, secretary of the Brick
Manufacturers’ Association of NSW,
said they were facing the future with con-
fidence, but he wouldn’t say they “faced
a rosy future”.
“We have expended in the last three
years about £4 million on modernisation
of plant,” he said. “We now have the
manufacturing potential for taking care
of any sudden demand. We view with
considerable pleasure any intention to
make it possible for people on smaller
incomes to build homes.
• “There have been hopeful signs over
the last three or four months that funds
for building are coming through at a
better rate. While brick manufacturers
have recovered from the credit squeeze,
the building industry hasn’t. But, pro-
vided election promises are kept we are
quietly confident that the building in-
dustry will completely recover.”
Whaling On The Land
Inhale Industries Ltd should now
change its name to avoid confusion.
All whaling assets have been sold, and
the company has now gone on the land.
Its chief business is the running of the
35,000-acre Gurley sheep and wheat
property near Moree, which it bought
for £600,000 in July, 1959.
It has also a cattle fattening operation
in Feed Lots Pty Ltd which is now a
wholly-owned subsidiary. To acquire the
minority interest in 1962-63, the com-
pany incurred a loss of £15,000 which
was debited against the latest profit.
The 1962-63 profit of £14,701 was
arrived at after taking the gloomiest
possible view. The losses on sale of the
whaling assets amounting to £195,000
were written off against profit, and in all
losses of £231,507 were written off
against reserves in a subsidiary.
Considering these as non-recurring
items which will give considerable tax
relief, the position of the reborn com-
pany gives rise to considerable hope.
The directors’ action in revaluing Gur-
ley and transferring the £297,000 sur-
plus to reserves confirms the observer’s
optimism, as does the change in ac-
counting practice whereby the wool clip
(shorn in August, sold in October, 1963)
was not brought into 1962-63 accounts.
Shareholders would be assisted in their
estimates of the company’s present worth
by receipt of information as to the value
of that wool clip.
It is obvious, nevertheless, that at
3s. lid. before the preliminary report
was published, the ss. shares were grossly
underrated. The shares have come in for
a good deal more support since then,
and without seeing the balance sheet for
1962-63 the value of the shares could
be guessed at anything up to 6s.
The chairman (Mr R. Crichton-Brown)
told shareholders at the 1962 annual
meeting that the whaling subsidiary
leased Gurley from Gurley Station Pty
Ltd to reap full tax benefits from losses.
With this kind of thinking, and re-
membering the blue chip quality of the
stock in the old whaling days under the
same management, the company is far
from moribund.


J. B. & FRANK CHARLTON
STOCK & SHARE BROKERS
F. B. Charlton J. F. Charlton
J. M. Fay C. A. B. Marjason
J. 1. Russell
Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING
309 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Phone 22775 Box 61A G.P.O.
TOOWOOMBA BRANCH
A.M.P. Building, Ruthven Street
Phone 2 5206
MARKET POINTERS
Retailers for Strength
TNVESTORS have been treated to a
long list of expansion plans during
the recent election campaign and they
could not fail but be impressed that, at
Government level at least, industry will
receive a strong forward thrust. Already
signs of a boom have emerged, even
without Government promises. The ques-
tion is: Who will benefit most? And:
What shares should be bought?
It is not a question easily answered
because there are signs that the excess
liquidity in the economy could get out
of hand if thrust spontaneously into a
few obvious pipelines.
Sharemarkets themselves answered
these questions very positively, taking
the pre-election bit well between the
teeth to ride off to new peaks. All this
was done on extremely healthy turn-
overs as well. Such obvious and wide-
spread enthusiasm might suggest that
some reaction must be at hand, especi-
ally if a more acute selectivity inter-
venes.
Here more than one investment sec-
tion may call for notice, since general
economic activity displays no obvious
signs of narrowing. Implementation of
minimum election promises would also
cover a fairly wide field.
But long experience suggests one sure
winner. The retail stores always manage
to siphon off a large proportion of public
spending. Even in bad times the key
retailers seem to do well.
Investors gape with dismay, however,
when they study the share prices of
leaders like MYER EMPORIUM,
DAVID JONES and other giants with
shiny bright records. How can you
expect much improvement from such
shares when they already have enjoyed
a good rise and are now showing such
low market yields?
Perhaps the answer is in the phrase
that the strong get stronger and the
weak get weaker.
★ ★ ★
TAavid Jones ss. shares at around 21s.
offer a dividend yield of only 3 p.c.
and an earnings yield of 6.5 p.c. But
the company keeps expanding interstate
and, from a position of strength, is able
to keep a critical eye on its competitors
and, if necessary, make a takeover
swoop.
★ ★ ★
11/Iyer is in the same position. It also
maintains a reputation of buying
surplus stocks or bankrupt stocks for
cash and at favorable prices. Again,
from a position of strength, it can call
the tune.
Its subsidiary in Adelaide, MYER
(S.A.) LID, also is worthy of attention
because of proved growth prospects.
★ ★ ★
HPhen there is GRACE BROS of
Sydney, which has displayed a re-
markably good merchandising record in
recent years with outstanding success in
the suburbs. These ss. shares also are
high priced at around 225. 6d. to yield
only 2.9 p.c., but the market has held
the opinion for some time that this com-
pany, despite its high market rating,
could be a logical takeover for one of
the bigger retailers.
•k ★ *
Switching to another obvious field, the
building industry must benefit from
the proposed boost to housing. A review
of the brick industry published in this
issue of The Bulletin indicates that
brick manufacturers are quietly con-
fident.
BRICKWORKS is regarded as a
leader in the trade in Sydney and its
20s. shares command a high level of
around 69s 6d. in the market to yield
4 p.c. Hardly a share for the five-bob
investor, you may say, but it sometimes
pays to be with the strength. The com-
pany is installing automatic plant and is
expected to obtain a fair share of the
increased market expected in 1964.
★ ★ ★
HThen there are the concrete and con-
"*■ struction groups, including such
shares as READY MIXED CON-
CRETE (with a large amount of cash
available from the sale of its UK
subsidiary), P.G.H. INDUSTRIES and
CONCRETE INDUSTRIES. Some say
that Concrete Industries is still over-
capitalised because of takeover indiges-
tion but there is no doubt that public
works programmes should benefit com-
panies like these.
★ ★ ★
TJroject Development the building
company also has a sound record
of civil engineering and construction
work and, at under 95., offers a com-
paratively high yield of 7 p.c.
★ ★ ★
T ooking into the building trades which
will supply materials in the expected
housing boom, JOHN McILWRAITH
INDUSTRIES LTD of Melbourne is a
popular pick, with its ss. shares selling
just below 20s. to yield 3.8 p.c.
★ ★ ★
HThe big rises, of course, will come
from unexpected quarters, and one
of these could be INTERNATIONAL
FOOTWEAR if people have more
money to spend on clothing. The ss.
shares sell at around 11s. 6d. to yield
5.3 p.c. It is a competitive industry
but, as someone points out, shoe imports
do not appear to offer a great threat to
local industry at the moment.
Associated group kept the market
guessing what kept on delaying its
announcements on the testing of Rich-
mond No. 5 in Queensland, only If
miles south-west of Richmond No. 1.
The drill stem test on Richmond No.
5 was quoted at 250 barrels a day on a
short test, but when the company got
round to preliminary production testing,
the lest was suspended to replace equip-
ment found to be defective.
Speculators were asking if any indica-
tions of oil flow were obtained up to
the time of replacing the defective equip-
ment.
While this was going on, their
appetites were sustained by drilling of
Richmond No. 6 well, about 1.9 miles
south-east of No. 1 well.
All of this discourages holders from
selling. And certainly it keeps the un-
informed short-sellers out of the market.


“ ■'©©*
o' - *©' l
CASH
OR
CLOTHING
fSIB
o* / oo N 00^0
585/83/63
mm
r:.
most things you use
are transported by
Mayne Nickless deliver anything, anywhere.
From carrying pay rolls in armoured cars,
to suits on hangers delivered in special wardrobes,
Mayne Nickless play a considerable part in
delivering goods throughout Australia.
Heavy loads, light loads, products of manufacture,
big or small—all are carefully carried by Mayne Nickless.
With 3,000 trained personnel at branches
throughout Australia and more than 1,500 vehicles,
Mayne Nickless can move anything,
anywhere by road, rail, sea or air.
UA YNE MICK LESS
LIMITED
AUSTRALIA’S COMPLETELY CO-ORDINATED TRANSPORT SYSTEM
OIL CORNER
Financing Future Oil Reserves
The march of nationalism in the rela-
tively undeveloped countries must
provide plenty of headaches for the
large oil gioups with their huge spread
of investments. A typical current head-
ache is the recent cancellation of oil
contracts in Argentina. It affected 13
international oil companies which were
working with the Argentinian State Oil-
fields in the development of that
country’s petroleum reserves,
These problems come at a time when
V
the oil industry is pondering the falling
rate of return on capital invested.
It has been indicated that, although
present oil reserves are more than
enough, the world will need 130 p.c.
more oil after 1980, which sets a task
of proving about 360 billion barrels of
new oil reserves by 1980.
But financing . . . which means over-
seas capital to most countries ... is be-
coming a bugbear.
It is claimed that in the 10 years to
the end of 1962, profit earned by US oil
companies as a percentage of net assets
dropped from 16.7 p.c. to 10.4 p.c. Most
of the finance for expansion and de-
velopment has been found by ploughing
back profits. To continue the necessary
development and proving of new fields,
obviously the oil companies must make
sufficient profit to finance the “plough
back”.
With more countries wanting a bigger
share of the “take”, the oil barons are
trying to convince everyone that oil is a
wasting asset and must be replaced. As
the various States are unwilling (except
for drilling subsidies, etc.) to provide all
the finance for oil exploration and de-
velopment, the oil companies must
decide if the State grab is reasonable
or not.
Possibly this is influencing more ex-
ploration in offshore areas. The take-
home pay by the States may be less
punitive.
Socony Mobil of Canada and Shell
already are exploring the Atlantic.
★ ★ ★
TTnion - Kern - AOG is keeping its
promise to maintain a high rate of
drilling, but is getting its fair share of
dry holes.
Paget No. 1 was abandoned as dry at
5372 ft. and the operating company,
Union Oil Development, promptly
lugged the drilling equipment to Liddell
No. 1, about 12 miles north-east of
Moonie.
★ ★ ★
which has had a long slogging
match with nature in Western Aus-
tralia, says that after its exploration work
at Rough Range it had to completely re-
think its exploration programme in the
West. It has now gone back to the Pater-
son area where up-to-date seismograph
surveys suggested that drilling should be
undertaken.
Drilling of the Paterson No. 1 well is
the second of six wells planned for the
Learmonth area and may help to solve
some of the mystery surrounding the
small accumulations of oil so far un-
covered in the West.
Maybe Wapet will get lucky. Most
oil speculators retain some interest in
the West through a holding in AMPOL
EXPLORATION, whose ss. shares are
selling at around 10s.


.x: XvXy:.: y
inn
0 jmm
m
m
CSR \fINYLFLEX
FLOOR AND WALL TILES
So beautiful... so easy to maintain
So beautiful . . . because the rich colours are
moulded through to last for years. Choose from
30 beautiful, modern colours. So easy to maintain
. . . because the satin-smooth, durable surface resists
wear and scuffing . . . stays clean longer.
Simple, easy-to-follow laying instructions are
packed with your tiles. Select your design by using
the free CSR Pattern Planning Service. Vinyl flex
Tiles are made in Australia.
-Udjf tf&n IjiiiU lettreA
«
V 1.102
BUILDING
MATERIALS
SOLD BY DEPARTMENTAL AND HARDWARE STORES EVERYWHERE
INVESTMENT SECTION
Melbourne Exchange in Fuller Stride
A whirlwind final quarter redeemed
an otherwise only moderately active
year for the Stock Exchange of Mel-
bourne ending on September 30, though,
as the annual report of the committee
states, both the Australian economy and
the share market gained new strength
and, more importantly, a degree of new
confidence throughout the 12 months.
In an atmosphere of growing con-
fidence, the report states that the rate of
growth accelerated in July in spirited
pre-Budget trading with the Melbourne
share index exceeding its 1960 peak.
Initial disappointment at the lack of direct
incentives in the Budget caused a
momentary drift in prices. However,
the share market resumed its rise as
the strength of the economy, plus
Government spending, continued to re-
store investors’ confidence.
Most sections of the share market
participated in the sustained recovery
with base metal shares providing a
notable example as a result of improved
production and overseas prices.
Oil search by listed companies was
again widespread and several promising
signs were encountered, notably in
Queensland by the Associated Group.
Part of the general rise in industrial
share prices after June reflected the con-
tinued fall in interest rates, particularly
the rates on Commonwealth bonds. The
steady fall in yields on listed bonds
foreshadowed a later cut in the official
rate, but for some time industrial
share prices showed a reluctance to come
into line with the lower bond yields.
However, in the last three months of
the year, this technical factor and
several other directly encouraging indi-
cations stimulated the share market.
Economic growth in some cases at
a greater rate than during the 1960 boom
and a general spread of good trading
reports from listed companies pointed
to a higher level of company profits.
Since July this has been largely con-
firmed with most profits by listed com-
panies reflecting the gathering momen-
tum of business generally, says the
report.
In commenting on the current outlook
for markets the committee suggests that
despite some reaction, due in part to
political predictions, share prices ap-
peared to be poised for further ad-
vances in line with continuing economic
and industrial growth.
The main highlight of the year was the
introduction of comprehensive share
price indices to supplement the previous
meagre fare of statistical information on
exchange movements, a job in which the
ANZ Bank gave valuable assistance,
mainly through its assistant chief econo-
mist Mr G. R. Bruns.
The Exchange also geared itself to
handle a much bigger volume of trans-
actions more expeditiously and this
would seem to be timely. For not only
were new records for business established
last year, but even bigger volumes must
be expected in the current year.
Nominal value of all securities listed
on the Exchange rose by 7 p.c. to £5,453
million on the year, that of ordinary
shares increasing by £79 million, or 6
p.c., to £1,319 million. The market
value of ordinary shares rose by £704
million, or 22 p.c., to £3,916 million.
The nominal value of listed Common-
wealth Loans rose by £213 million to a
record £3,163 million. The market
value of Commonwealth Loans was
£3,312 million or 40 p.c. of the £8,317


National Consolidated
Limited
MANU F ACT URE RS of Automotive Radiators;
McQuay heat transfer and air-conditioning com-
ponents; "Whitco" window fittings; Eyelets for all
trades; Metal Fittings, Fasteners and Containers.
PUBLISHERS of Greeting Cards. DISTRIBUTORS
of Ball and Roller Bearings. SPECIALISTS in Shop f
Store and Display Planning.
The Story of Postwar Growth and Success!
The story of this healthy example of Australian industrial ex-
pansion and the Group's attitude to the future is pin-pointed
here in highlights from the Chairman's Address and this year's
Annual Report.
★ The Company had its beginnings in 1937 when a small factory in South
Melbourne began the manufacture of radiators for Australia’s relatively
small but growing automotive industry.
For a number of years the Company concentrated its efforts in the auto-
motive radiator field but gradually acquired other diversified business
interests.
★ A significant milestone in the Company’s history was reached during this
financial year when for the first time the group’s profit—after provision
for taxation—exceeded £1,000,000. Earning rate on ordinary capital has
increased from 31.5% to 39.1%. Earning rate on shareholders’ funds has
risen from 13.7% to 15.6%.
★ With a predicted G.N.P. growth rate of 5% per annum over the next
five years, the Company regards its diversified interests as being ideally
suited to respond to and share in the favorable business conditions now
prevailing.
if Here, briefly, are the main points from the Company’s statement of accounts
for 1962-63:
Total group sales were £12,404,454 compared with £9,919,522 in 1961-62.
Net trading profit of £1,032,671 is an increase of £179,287 or 17.4%
over last year’s results. Profit to sales ratio was reduced from 8.6%
to 8.3%.
Total distribution of dividends payable from the year’s profits represents
1/- per share or 20% on ordinary shares and 5% per annum on preference
shares. The ordinary 20% dividend rate has been maintained for five years.
NATIONAL CONSOLIDATED LIMITED
178-182 Queen Street, Melbourne
Parent company of the . . . National Group . . . Perry Group . . . Eyelets
Group . . . Muller Group . . . Murfett Group . . . R.M.S. Group . . .
Bearing Service Group.
million market value of all securities
listed.
BHP again topped share turnovers for
the year with a total of £6,317,000,
more than the combined turnover of the
next three highest, G. J. Coles, Myers
and Woolworths. Combined turnover
of the 20 most heavily traded issues was
25 p.c. of total share turnover by value.
No figure for the total value of share
turnovers is given in the report (perhaps
next year?).
But the number of units traded rose
by 20 p.c. to 173.3 million, which is a
quadrupling since 1955 and a doubling
over the last four years. Against this,
mining turnovers dropped by 17 p.c. in
1963 to 28 million units, which, however,
was the second highest on record.
Harold Win cottas Discoveries
riN his second visit to Australia in
three years, the London “Investors’
Chronicle’s” editor in chief, Mr Harold
Wincott, has reported that in contrast
to 1960 when he was last here the feet
of Australian investors are firmly on the
ground.
As might be expected, Mr Wincott
was struck by the pervasive hangover
psychology from that boom. “One hears
of elderly ladies and small investors who
were persuaded to put all their savings
in speculative favorites of 1960 and in
land lots which now lie derelict. It takes
a long time to get your confidence back
after such experiences,” he told I.C.
readers last week.
After running his experienced measur-
ing rod over the 30-20 rule, “a good
deal of spare capacity, either actual or
potential,” price cutting in the durable
consumer goods industries and so on,
he concludes that “it would be quite
wrong to convey the impression that any
of this means depression or anything like
it.”
In his cosy style he says to his largely
UK audience: “The investment moral is,
I think, not dissimilar to that at home.
The emphasis must be on selectivity and
good management —of which there is
plenty in modern Australia.”
But how cosy can you get? Mr Win-
cott picks out a safe six shares which he
thinks it will pay to live with over the
long-term. These are CSR, Bank of
NSW, W. R. Carpenter, John Fairfax,
Schweppes and Woolworths. And so say
all of us, but there are plenty of others
with more fire in their bellies.
Monier Consolidates
Tf the profit increase recorded in the
first four months of the current
year continues to June 30 next, the year
1963-64 might repeat Concrete Industries
(Monier) profit performance of 1960-61.
Directors view the present as a time


SSSSSSK
| , '' 1 1 | |j < §1 "-'' j
n \4
- .
.-:;s
: ':S
„*■*.< x% <•<* sbs®
1 §lll
:fv:
ssr;
I
B!KSS!
rv' v t 1
liliiiS
;. ... • ..'
»ssg»s
S£VSSSSiS
SMjiS!
v .' ; \
. . .
Rural Bank Short Term Deposits
Your money keeps growing; nothing can stop it. Earn p.a.
for 12 to 15 months; p.a. for 3 to 11 months. See your
nearest Rural Bank; invest any sum from £lO up. A guaranteed
Trust Fund investment.
RURAL BANK
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Board of Commissioners:
J. C. Fletcher, C.B.E. (President)
E. T. Carroll, N. B. Rydge, C.8.E., J. F. J. Auswild
The Rural Bank does more for you!
Oft vO*
R>
I
RBBBS/8.3C
of consolidation “with expansion planned
as necessity arises.”
This statement, reinforced by the fol-
lowing one that “operations and develop-
ment should progress by long-term fin-
ance and retained profits” proclaims the
change in directors’ policy from that of
numerous takeovers, frequent par issues,
a couple of bonuses and a premium place-
ment.
Shareholders were informed at the
meeting that although £ 100,000 had
been written off on the contract to supply
precast and prestressed components for
the Hobart Bridge, the company had
made claims on the contractor for
£300,000.
Monier-Reid Asphalt and Blue Metal
Quarries are both now paying dividends
and Monier Tile Co. (WA) is profitable.
The joint venture with Paul Hardeman
and Hutcherson Bros on the US Navy
communications centre should prove “re-
warding”, and the Hurstville Super
Centre Building “will produce a sound
profit”.
The ss. shares put on a point or two
to 9s. 2d. where the yield is 3.5 p.c.
Some addition to last year’s 6? p.c. divi-
dend could be expected this year, but
shareholders will have to wait at least
until March for the interim report before
learning if their hopes are to be fulfilled.
Consolations of Banking
predominantly economic tone of
A the observations with which the
National Bank chairman, Mr J. A. For-
rest, regaled the annual meeting tended
to obscure his much briefer survey of
the bank’s own progress during 1962-63.
This of course mirrored the recent
bout of improved profitability and live-
liness among Australian private banks.
Repeated confirmation, however, must
only bring joy to shareholders, who, like
others, are also to get the benefit of what
Mr Forrest coyly described as “the re-
organisation of the capital structure.”
The National’s gross earnings went up
by £1,233,000 to £13,814,000 in the
year to September 30. With expenses
£934,000 higher and £117,000 more
for taxation, net profit still advanced by
£182,135 to £1,247,621, a healthy
change from the previous year’s £9401
decline.
An almost £5O million lift in assets
received a £2l million contribution from
the parent (trading bank) company and
about £2B million from the eminently
successful savings bank subsidiary. The
growth in advances, £2.7 million higher,
stemmed entirely from the savings bank,
which increased its housing loans by
£4.5 million, since the trading bank
lending fell back by £l.B million.
“The large and welcome rise of al-
most £4B million in the deposits item”
came £2O million from the parent and
£2B million from the savings bank.
Mr Forrest comments on needs filled
by the Term Loan Fund enabling the
banks “to extend their range of lending
by provision of medium term loans for
developmental purposes. These loans out-
standing increased by £29 million to
£35 million in the 12 months to Oc-
tober, against an increase of only £l9
million in overdraft advances.
Some may regard the latter amount
“as unexpectedly small in view of the
further improvement in business condi-
tions that has occurred,” Mr Forrest
wryly remarks, adding that “the sub-
stantial degree of liquidity in the corn-
munity is one factor which has probably
lessened the need to rely heavily upon
bank finance.”
He remains on the side of the angels
in seeing a “marked degree of general
stability,” sedately noticing how “the
rapid borrowing and lending of money
outside the banking system accompanied
by a pyramiding of debts and credits (the
process highlighted by the Radcliffe Re-
port as being one which stimulates de-


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Registered 19th December, 1929)
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
S 5
5S
Q
PER ANNUM 7 & 10 YEARS
4f% PER ANNUM FOR 12 MONTHS
HOW TO APPLY
Applications will be accepted only on the printed
forms attached to the Prospectus. Your copy avail-
able from all Members of Stock Exchanges, over 750
Branches of the A.N.Z. Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches.
60 Collins Place. MELBOURNE Tel.: 636121
Branches at
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
HOBART - CANBERRA - DARWIN
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane.
848 IN
mand) has been slowed down compared
with what took place during the days
of the last boom.”
An sett Powered by Tax Losses
“Tt is my intention to pay as little tax
A as possible,” Mr R. M. Ansett,
chairman of Ansett Transport Industries
Ltd, told shareholders at the annual meet-
ing last week.
The company provided only £36,395
against pre-tax profit of £1,311,765 in
the year ended June 30, 1963.
Mr Ansett declared that the company,
because of the nature of its business and
the enormous tax losses taken over from
acquired subsidiaries (£600,000 from
Butler Airlines alone), plus the fact that
New Guinea airlines are taxed at only
4s. in the £, would not have to pay
normal tax rates for at least ten years.
The company expects record results
for 1963-64. Strong growth continues
in the airline and airfreight business.
And early profits are predicted for the
television station which will begin trans-
mission in August, 1964.
The ss. shares are now strongly priced
at 7s. 3d. to return 6.9 p.c. on an im-
mediate purchase. The 20.5 p.c. earning
rate gives a present earnings yield of
14.2 p.c.
Melb. Herald’s “Hidden” Reserves
v
on the Melbourne Stock Ex-
change interpretation, net profit of
the Herald and Weekly Times recovered
strongly in the year to June, whereas
according to the “Sun News-Pictorial’s”
finance page it only held steady. The
difference in interpretation lies in whether
a sum of £465,839 last year and
£306,805 the previous year set aside
for development and investment fluctu-
ation is to be regarded as a provision
or a transfer to reserves, x
If the former, the rise in net profit
would be from £1,449,230 to
£1,487,121 and in earnings from 37.2
to 37.7 p.c. as shown in the “Sun”. If
the latter, as seems the more acceptable
interpretation, then net profit increased
by £196,925 to a new record of
£1,952,960, which represented a rise in
earnings from 45.1 to 49.9 p.c.
An appropriation for development and
investment fluctuation was introduced in
the accounts for 1960-61, when
£197,084 was set aside for it. The
latest addition of £465,838 brings the
total so far to £869,726.
One of the main purposes of this is
to reduce the book figures of invest-
ments to their par values. The
£465,838 thus appropriated in the latest
accounts has been used to write down
the book values of new holdings ac-
quired in Queensland Press and West
Australian Newspapers.
Partly as a result of this, the book
values of listed investments is given as
having increased only from £5,065,979
to £5,649,312, whereas according to a
note to the accounts the market value of
these investments increased from
£16,986,239 to £22,650,042, a rise of
£5,663,803 in 12 months.
With such massive increases in “hid-
den” reserves the book figures for share-
holders’ funds get more unrealistic from
year to year, though shareholders can
hardly worry on that score, especially
with the latest showing of earnings’
strength.
With latest earnings at 49.9 p.c. and
what looks like a very good current
year proceeding, there should be plenty
of spare earnings to hold the dividend
rate at the again steady 27i p.c. after
the forthcoming one-for-two bonus to
shareholders and the cash issue to staff
are made as mentioned in The Bulletin
of November 23.
Rothmans in NZ Booming
A year ago, after becoming ex a one-
for-two bonus issue and a one-for-
one par issue, the £1 shares in Roth-
mans Tobacco Co. Ltd, the NZ manu-
facturing offshoot of the Rembrandt em-
pire, looked very cheap at 41s.
It took investors a long time to wake
up to this fact. But with few shares avail-
able, the price started moving in Feb-
ruary. Those who bought then have by
now more than doubled their money.
Latest sales, on the unofficial list, have
been at 87s. 6d. In the year to June 30


The “Space-AgC
shaver
is here!
<-
i
;
V ..
mm
"-v
J ,
\ K iLLiONSOFPOUNDSofresearchmoney
i-Vl. has been spent perfecting thumb-
sized electric motors which move satellite
aerials. They are powered by even
smaller energy cells, charged and dis-
charged by the sun’s rays. Light in
weight, but packing a punch that lasts
for years, this system is ideal for
powering the “space age” electric shaver.
The Sperry Division of the Sperry
Rand Corporation plays a leading role in
space research. This know-how is passed
on to the Remington Shaver Division.
The Remington “Lektronic” is the first
and only shaver that uses space satellite
principles in order to double a shaver’s
power, while retaining a built-in re-
chargeable power supply.
Men on the move can now shave when
ever they like. Only a little bigger than a
packet of cigarettes in bag or briefcase,
<3
the “Lektronic" draws up to two weeks*
power from the mains in a few hours.
Start shaving with “Lektronic” now.
“Lektronic” adjusts to suit every beard,
every skin.
Save face! Write for your free copy of the
informative booklet, “The Pleasant Art of
Electric Shaving" to: Remington, P.O.
Box 91, Lidcombe, N.S.W.
22 GUINEAS complete
Also available, the Remington 25: £14.17.6
mmm t m
Shaver by Remington Rand
■RR9OBLR2
the company almost doubled its profit
and maintained dividend at 15 p.c. This
gives the shares a yield of 3.4 p.c. And
with earning rate at a staggering 49 p.c.
(that on average funds is 27 p.c.), the
shares still look cheap because of the
high earnings yield of 11.2 p.c.
NZ Oil Co. Taken Over
VTew Zealand’s only publicly-owned
oil exploration company, New Zea-
land Petroleum Exploration Co. Ltd, is
now American-controlled. Of the shares
offered in the recent one-for-ten issue
at a premium of sd. a ss. share, only
35,570 have been taken up and the re-
maining 300,000-odd have been placed
in the US at 6s. Id.
As the group of Dallas co-founders
has also exercised an option for 400,000
shares at par, Americans now hold at
least 1,220,000 of the 1,872,000-odd
shares.
Meanwhile, following abandonment of
the company’s first well near Hamilton,
the shares are selling at 4s. in New
Zealand.
Portfolio Market Slipping
HPhe hand of Sir lan Potter can be seen
A guiding the purchase of a 24.3 p.c.
holding in Portfolio and Development
Ltd by the Boral subsidiary, Mount Lyell
Investments Ltd.
Sir lan, besides being chairman of
Portfolio and Development, is chairman
of Australian United Corporation Ltd
which, through a wholly-owned subsidi-
ary, also holds 400,000 Portfolio shares.
He also has close links with Boral.
The seller was Australian Guarantee
Corporation Ltd, and consideration
<£275,000 cash or 13s. 9d. for each of
the 400,000 Portfolio shares.
If the professional investor considers
Portfolio’s shares are worth 13s. 9d. why
should there be an unfulfilled seller at
135., and a last sale on the market at
12. 6d.?
Not So Base Metals
Tfz Industries 10s. shares, at 18s., are
nudging their 1963 best of 18s. 3d.
They have shown a positive improvement
from the previous year’s 15s. 6d. top and
have also climbed well above a 13s. 7d.
1963 low.
The augmented 1962-63 dividend, up
by i p.c. to 10 p.c., means a present
yield of 5.5 p.c., with earnings yield
standing at 7.2 p.c.
A few careful qualifications marked
the address by the chairman, Mr Edward
Cohen, to last week’s annual meeting.
Not content to ride along solely on the
rosy world situation for base metals
generally, he indicated that EZ's im-
mediately favorable future hinged on the


Woos'
{RIC ANDERSON
(CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
I
PER ANNUM
SHORT TERM
6 months 5 \ a /o p.a. !12 months 6% p.a.
LONG TERM
2 years 6 \°/o p.a. j 3 years 7j% p.a.
5 years... 8 °/o pa.* 10 years . 8 °/o p.a.
Trustee for Debenture Stockholders:—
P.T. LIMITED, a wholly owned subsidiary of
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Applications will proceed only on the form of application
referred to in and attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus. Prospectus may be obtained from and applications
lodged with any branch in New South Wales or the
Australian Capital Territory and any City or Suburban branch
in Brisbane, Queensland, of the foliowing banks:—
* THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LTD.
* BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES or at
* ERIC ANDERSON (CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
125 York Street, Sydney.
* ERIC ANDERSON RADIO-TELEVISION PTY. LIMITED
Any branch in Sydney, Suburbs, Wollongong, Pt. Kembla,
Canberra, Queanbeyan and Newcastle.
* PACKARD BELL PTY. LIMITED
Any Branch in Brisbane, Suburbs and Country
-A-ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
Underwriting Brokers: RALPH W. KING & YUiLI
, (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange}’?
20 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
OR POST THIS COUPON TO:
ERIC ANDERSON (CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
125 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
Please post me, without obligation, a copy of your
prospectus to:
NAME
ADDRESS
absence of extensive wage rises through-
out 1964, the maintenance of reasonable
overseas freight rates, and the prevalence
of enough rainfall to hold Tasmania’s
power supply.
The latter proviso appears to be of
no little significance. A 15 p.c. power
cut to industrial consumers on November
15 does not hinder output of zinc and
associated products, though it limits pro-
duction of sulphate of ammonia. Any
further cut would necessitate closing the
ammonia plant.
Nevertheless Mr Cohen’s speech
largely reinforced the good cheer of the
slightly earlier directors’ report. This did
not only show that the latest profit,
£2,343,009, had more than caught up
the 1961-62 decline. For that / year’s
record outputs were surpassed in 1962-63
by all products except sulphate of am-
monia. Cadmium sales and total sales
and exports of zinc and zinc alloys set
fresh peaks.
Though the rival Cockle Creek (NSW)
smelter was able to place the larger part
of its output with Newcastle and Port
Kembla galvanisers, EZ, “without diffi-
culty” sold the zinc so released on world
markets. “Export sales increased over
and above the reduction in Australian
sales.”
The report actually mentioned that,
since world smelter capacity still ex-
ceeds mine production, raw material
prices continue to move against the
smelter. The very latest prices tend to
confirm this situation, but Mr Cohen
told his shareholders how even a new
Canadian producer was “unlikely to dis-
turb buoyand world demand.”
All EZ’s major markets are making
inquiries beyond the company’s ability
to supply. The improved position can
only be aided by a distinct increase in
operating efficiency.
Once Bitten . . .
Oydney men’s and boys’ wear retailer,
F. J. Palmer Floldings Ltd, made
a cautious return to the dividend list after
a year’s absence.
Although dipping into reserves for
£ 14,442, the company distributed
£34,650, or 2i p.c. on capital.
Profit of £20,208 for the year to July
31 compares with the 1961-62 loss of
£5,972, and the peak profit of £305,108
way back in 1954-55.
Flaving disposed of part of the Big Bear
supermarket at Neutral Bay, directors
recouped £29,668 of the 1961-62 write-
off, and this capital profit no doubt in-
fluenced directors to pay out more than
was actually earned on trading.
In 1961-62 the company provided
£34,306 for tax on profits of subsidiaries
(the parent paid none), but this year
group tax provision was only £11,692.


Li I Klfill I
ANSETT FREIGHT EXPRESS
GETS YOUR GOODS THERE
ON TIME-
EVERY TIME
You can time your business operations by the regularity
of Ansett Freight Express deliveries. Whatever the consign-
ment, hosiery to heavy machinery, bulk loads or single
packages wherever the destination, interstate or local,
Ansett Freight Express pick up and deliver on time.
FIXED DEPARTURE AND ARRIVAL TIMES
Every day, regular as clockwork, Ansett Freight Express
transports pull out of all capital city terminals. The most
comprehensive Australia-wide transport system. Drivers are
rested, vehicles are checked before and during trips. Your
goods travel securely and arrive in showroom condition.
THERE’S A SERVICE TO SUIT YOUR NEEDS
Ansett Freight Express is a specialised transport system with
a wide range of services and vehicles to suit every load.
■ Daily services to and from
all capital cities.
■ Overnight ‘Rocket’ service,
Adelaide, Melbourne,
Sydney, Brisbane.
■ Forwarding by road, rail,
sea or air.
■ Local cartage.
■ Customs, storage and
insurance facilities available.
■ Flexi-vans between Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney.
■ “Piggy-back” between
Adelaide - Perth.
■ Container vans between
Brisbane - Darwin.
■ Sea-road to Tasmania.
FOR FULL DETAILS &
COMPETITIVE RATES
CONTACT—
MELBOURNE 68 0541
SYDNEY 67 0533
ADELAIDE 45 5337
CANBERRA 9 4091
BRISBANE 47 1481
PERTH 244926
TASMANIA -
DEVONPORT
2 2659
9433/M
YOU WANT YOUR GOODS THERE ON TIME-USE ANSETT FREIGHT EXPRESS
In supporting the ss. shares at 3s. 2d.
where the yield is 3.9 p.c., the market
is remembering the long record of profits
and generous dividends up to 1958-59,
when F. J. Palmer got ideas of grandeur
and was bitten by the Big Bear.
Assured Rise for APA
abracadabra of APA Holdings Ltd
reports can only be understood after
referring to the capital construction in
May, 1957, when the shares of Aus-
tralian Provincial Assurance Association
Ltd were acquired.
The holding company purchased the
shares of its predecessor for £5 a 20s.
share, satisfied by the issue of two £1
shares with two 30s. non-interest bearing
redeemable loan stock units attached.
Any transfer of the shares involved
transfer of the debt.
The debt has been reduced progres-
sively each year so that after payments
in respect of 1961-62, year ended Sep-
tember, the balance was 14s. 3d. per
APA Holdings share.
Now the company reports that pay-
ments have been doubled from 3s. to
6s. a share, and after the December,
1963, payment of a final 4s. 6d., the
balance of the debt will be Bs. 3d. per
APA Holdings share.
Besides this, the company paid its
usual 2} p.c. dividend for the year. The
total payout is therefore deemed to be
32i p.c. as against 17i p.c. in the
previous year.
Holding company profit advanced
from £140,778 to £184,209, but does
not include retained profits of the sub-
sidiaries APA Life Assurance, APA Fire
and General Insurance, and the two
money market dealers, First Federal
Discount Co. Ltd (in Australia) and
APA Discount Corporation Ltd (in New
Zealand).
At around £7 10s. the 20s. shares are
shown with a yield of 4.3 p.c., which is
considerably more generous than any
other listed Australian insurance com-
pany.
With the debt being rapidly ex-
tinguished an increase in the dividend
proper is inevitable in a couple of years.
The stock will be more comprehensible
to non-professional investors then, so
the shares now deserve close attention.
Swan in Flight
TV/'hat was five months later than ex-
" pected at the time of the float
last year, Swan Quarries (WA) started
production at the end of November.
Continuous wet weather handicapped site
preparations and installation of heavy
equipment. In the meantime sharehold-
ers are being very patient in keeping the
ss. shares at 95., a level which some
brokers regard as artificially high.


*5
M
!|S|
•t^li
ES
XAS
V*
£S
-w
irSs
u
SO
X.p
V
~n»
N
hN
Q
a
e
t*
9
a»x
2
12
3T
Sfe
V 3
=^M$X±P
fWWWNWMWtMMw*
M
&m
V#V#f*
MsBBm
'
535
:5;:55x ; :>
53M
E
8188
fSH
m
mm
m
m
-
Only the Xerox 914 does it!
But then the Xerox 914 Office
Copier does lots of things other
copiers can’t. Like making copies
you can’t tell from the original
because it copies on ordinary bond
paper. The Xerox 914 copier is
quite unique!
49 Market Street, SYDNEY 2 0663
83 King Street, NEWCASTLE B 1994
164 Melbourne St., STH. BRISBANE ..... 4 3836
No costly, sensitized paper to buy.
No messy, wet chemicals. The
Xerox 914 process is dry. Copies
anything pencil, ballpoint pen,
everything. Even pages in bound
volumes. Every copy perfect—and
permanent. Low-cost copies. Never
any waste with the Xerox 914.
Fast, too. Seven copies a minute
—automatically. And easy! Just
dial the number of copies you want
—and push the button. No
adjustments ever.
RANK
XEROX
(AUSTRALIA) PTY LIMITED
316 Queen Street, MELBOURNE 67 6185
1095 Hay Street, PERTH 214097
Suite 5, Garema Arcade, Garema Place, Canberra
No capital outlay. You borrow our
Xerox 914 and pay only for the
copies you make. Call your Rank
Xerox office now or complete and
post this coupon and arrange a
demonstration of the unique Xerox
914 that will revolutionise your
office copying.
I would like:
□ More details of the Xerox 914 Office
Copier.
□ A demonstration at the nearest Rank
Xerox sales office (tick which applies).
Name
Company
Address
8792/63
163-7 Halifax Street, ADELAIDE _ 8 3125
24 Murray Street, HOBART _ 2 2688
City, A.C.T 4 7575


' .HOOKER /
MIIICEGOMMIY
LIMITED
An Issue of
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
o
PER ANNUM
5 or 10 YRS.
LONG TERM
8%, 5 or 10 years
7% 4 years
6i/ 2 % 3 years
6% 2 years
SHORT TERM
51/2% . . 12 months
5% 9 months
4y 2 % ... 6 months
4% 3 months
Interest payable quarterly.
Trustees for the Debenture Holders:
BURNS PHILP TRUST COMPANY LIMITED
HOW TO INVEST
Applications for Debenture Stock will proceed only on one
of the forms of application referred to in and attached to |
a printed copy of the Prospectus. The full Prospectus and
forms of application may be obtained from:
• Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia, or any of
its branches;
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange;
• The Underwriting Brokers: Ralph W. King & Yuill
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange), 20
O’Connell Street, Sydney, or at any of their branches;
• Any office of L. J. Hooker Limited;
• or direct from Hooker Finance Company Limited,
Hooker House, Angel Place, Sydney, and interstate
offices. J
L 1863
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Model Fourth Annual Report
T adies and Gentlemen:
lt is with considerable satisfaction
that this fourth annual report and
accounts covering the 12 months ending
November 30, 1963, are laid before you
As has been our practice in the past,
every effort has been made to present
these accounts as quickly as possible.
In this regard we are proud of our
record both for this year and for
previous years.
PROFIT: Before the profit announce-
ment is made, readers are reminded that
in mid-December last year just on
£l7OO was paid out of the portfolio. (It
was, after all, the season of Thanks-
giving.) At the start of the financial
year, the value of the portfolio stood at
£7400.
Working on the net value of £5700,
the value of the portfolio rose by 74
p.c. to £9953. This figure does not take
into consideration accrued dividends of
shares in the portfolio. These dividends
will be brought in at the time of sale.
The history of growth of the diary
since it was started with an initial
£2OOO four years ago is:
End of Year Growth
Value Rate
1960 £3115 64 p.c.
1961 £4867 55 p.c.
1962 £7400 54 p.c.
1963 £9953 74 p.c.
TRADING REVIEW: This year has
been a most active year. In an endeavor
to obtain maximum profits and also to
fill the normal two columns, 195 trans-
actions were made (last year 170). Of
the 99 sales, 23 losses were incurred.
This may seem a high proportion, but
I hasten to add that the policy of this
diary is always to cut losses or in some
cases sell out of shares where there has
been no movement. The largest losses
were both oil stocks Woodside £l2l
and Petroleum Investments £5O. The
largest industrial loss was £4B from
Clyde Industries. Then came Peter
Lloyd with a £3l loss.
Looking at realised profits, Pacific
Island Mines goes to the front with
£334. Other notable profits were Ampol
(£234), Marcus Clark notes (£230),
Fairymead (£219), LNC (£213), Harden
and Johnston (£134), Courtaulds (£230),
Plastic Coatings (£102), Holyman
Woods (£101) and A. V. Jennings (£9B).
The only float in which the diary was
allocated shares was United Telecasters
on which a profit of £lO7 was taken.
In the portfolio at the moment there
are some nice paper profits. Hanimex
has retained its premier position and
shows a profit of £450. Gibson and
Howes comes next with a £165 surplus.
OIL MARKET: This has been the
one dull part of the year’s trading. The
oil market showed little interest in any
announcements and our trading in oil
shares was thus in vain. Fortunately
only a small proportion of funds was
invested in oil shares.
A surplus of £1230 is shown between
total current market value and total
cost. It could now be called a £lO,OOO
portfolio. To make it into a purely in-
dustrial portfolio, 150 William Adams
shares could be substituted for the oil
shares. By coincidence, the “Financial
Review” has also presented its current
choice for a £lO,OOO portfolio consist-
ing mainly of the old regulars. As an
exercise the diary will review the respec-
tive performances of these two portfolios
at the next balance date.
MARKET CONDITIONS: Shaking off
the recession blues, the market has
steadily risen this financial year. It is
not generally realised that the extent of
this rise is 20 p.c. For some years now,
Speculator has been a market optimist.
It was felt that it was only a matter of
time before the recovery in the economy
would be reflected in the share market.
Meantime, the steady market proved an
ideal time to invest.
The future is viewed with confidence.
The market is about to be sparked off
with speculative fever and, of course,
this suits this Speculator.
CONCLUSION: It has generally been
a satisfying year. Where companies
were criticised, it was done in good
faith. On some occasions it may appear
that I have got bargain purchases, but
it must be remembered that the diary
relates to transactions in the previous
week. If you have followed this column
throughout the year, my thanks to you.


SECURITY ANALYSIS
Brickworks’ Price Movements
Are Shares Worth Buying at Current Levels?
By “ANALYST”
/3kNi.Y a relatively short while ago
” from the end of March, 1963, to
the end of July, 1963, approximately—
Brickworks Ltd shares sold consistently
below 555. and in June they touched a
low of 475. At the time of writing, the
shares have reached 70s. 6d. and could
easily go back to the levels of mid-1961
at around 735.
No doubt after price movements such
as this, the long-term investor probably
feels satisfied if he bought at, say, 635.
about 12 months ago, when the dividend
yield from the 15 p.c. dividend would
have been just under 4.8 p.c., but the
private investor probably feels that he
has only missed an opportunity because
for the £lOO, say, which he may have
had to invest, he bought only 31 shares
whereas for the same amount of money
six months later, he could have bought
42 shares.
One thing that is quite certain is that
the company is in much the same
position today as it was in June and was
as likely to benefit from an expansion
in home building (which had already
started at that time) as it is today. From
this viewpoint, it is as well to re-examine
Brickworks Ltd and try to decide
whether the shares are still worth buying
at current prices.
There are a few basic facts which the
investor should not overlook. Brick-
works Ltd has an excellent record so far
as shareholders are concerned, for with-
out any “adjustments” for theoretical
bonus contents of new issues there has
been a very substantial increase in
dividend income over the last ten years.
Even if we ignore the convertible note
issue in 1960 (the only cash issue to
shareholders since listing in 1951),
dividend income would have increased
by 200 p.c in the ten years from 1952
to 1961 inclusive. This represents an
average annual compound rate of 11!
p.c. which is rather in excess of the rates
of increase of several of our leading
stocks such as BHP, ACI and ICIANZ.
During this same period, earnings per
share increased at very roughly the
same rate, but it must be admitted that
the 1961-62 and 1962-63 years have
shown a very marked reduction in per
share earnings about 28 p.c. As a
result, the 15 p.c. dividend was only just
covered in 1961-62 and 1962-63.
This must necessarily lead us to con-
sider the prospects of this dividend rate
being maintained from the 1966-67 year
onwards after the note issue has con-
verted into ordinary shares and a full
year’s dividend has to be paid on them.
At that stag? the total dividend re-
quirement at the 15 p.c. rate will be
approximately £281,000. After adding
back convertible note interest (less tax),
the amount available to cover this divi-
dend in 1962-63 was £245,000 approxi-
mately, if we do not take the “Profit on
Disposal of Assets” into account. A 15
p.c. increase in earnings is therefore
necessary within the next three years just
to cover the dividend.
There are a few factors, however, that
make any reduction in the dividend rate
rather unlikely. Perhaps the most im-
portant is the annual payment which is
being received from the sale of land. The
item “Amounts Owing on Sale of Land”
decreased by nearly £61,000 during
1962-63 and no doubt this sum was also
available to the company.
At the time of the sale of the St
Peters land to the City Council, it was
stated that payment would be made over
20 years and the price suggested that the
annual payment would be of the order
of £35,000. It would seem that the
amount is now variable as the reduc-
tion in 1961-62 was just under £41,000.
While it is generally considered that
there will be a lift in building activity
and consequently a rise in demand for
Brickworks’ main products, the rise in
demand is unlikely to be 15 p.c. Overall
housing demand will probably increase
by little more than the population growth
over the next three years and one would
need to be very brave to suggest that
other building activity will continue to
increase at a far greater rate than it
has been doing over, say, the last five
years. Certainly a swing from timber
and fibro would help the demand for
bricks, but the trend to brick veneer
will reduce the demand for commons.
Up to the 1960-61 year the chairman
gave an approximate figure for brick
production each year. The five-year
series was as follows:
Year ended
June 30 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961
Brick production
approx.—mil. 75 84 100 117 150
Net profit before
tax, depreciation
and interest an
long-term debt
£OOO ,229 249 369 510 645
Profit per million
brick*— £'OQQ 3.05 2.97 3.69 4.35 4.30
A further factor pointing to a greater
unit profit is that, with the establishment
of the new texture brick plant at Black-
town (NSW), it can be expected that
overall production will include a much
higher proportion of texture bricks
which sell at prices up to 50 p.c.
greater than commons.
It seems very likely, therefore, that
a quite substantial rise in profit can be
expected in the future, but it is difficult
to assess the increase without knowledge
of the group’s current production figures.
Production figures were not given for
the 1961-62 and 1962-63 years. Total
production of clay bricks in Australia
fell by just over 6 p.c. from 1960-61 to
1961- and did not quite recover to
the 1960-61 level in 1962-63. But in
the 12 months to August, 1963, pro-
duction was up 3 p.c. on the 1960-61
production. Furthermore, production in
August, September and October, 1963,
was up 12} p.c. on the corresponding
period of the previous year.
While the increase in earnings will
depend largely on depreciation provisions
made, it is quite possible that earnings
could increase by as much as 30 p.c.
from a 12} p.c. increase in production.
This would mean that per share earnings
for 1963-64 could be around 4s. 4d.,
which at the last sale price of 70s. 6d.
gives a price/earnings ratio of just about
20 times.
It is worth mentioning, however, that
over the last five years the price/earnings
ratio has been between 18 and 20 very
roughly, so it could well be expected
that an increase in earnings from the
1962- level could easily bring about
proportionate increase in price.
A very marked increase in earnings
would also renew the speculation on
another bonus issue from the sub-
stantial reserves available for such a
distribution.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
Year to
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 163 198 914 1420 1417
Current liabilities 483 676 665 665 806
Net working
capital (320) (478) 249 755 611
Fixed assets 2087 2541 5499 6901 7071
Investments 110 219 856 55 55
Intangibles — — — — 6
Total capita] 2197 2760 6604 7711 7743
Represented by:
Negative working
capital 320 478 — — —
Loan capital — — 317 432 432
Pref. capital — — 730 750 750
Ord. capital 865 865 1189 1439 1439
Reserves 1012 1417 4368 5090 5122
Depreciation 129 107 148 172 226
Tax provided 104 175 223 209 170
Pref. dividend — — 9 60 60
Earnings 136 228 254 222 227
Ord. dividend 86 108 178 216 216
Surplus 50 120 76 6 11
Earnings per share
shillings (a) 2.76 4.58 3.88 2.56 2.62
Div. per share
shillings (a) 1.74 2.18 3.00 3.00 3.00
Earnings yield
p.c. (b) 5.5 7.4 5.1 4.3 5.0
Dividend yield
p.c. (b) 3.5 3.5 4.7 4.2 4.8
(a) Adjusted for convertible notes
(b) Based on last sale in month accounts presented.


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building
' 297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH:
2 Denham Street Phone 6080
ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Ord, J. A. Minnett, M. A. Gleeson
White, lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger,
J. D. Wolfensohn
Members 0/ the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscrofi, R. V.
Betts, D. A. Livingstone.
13-15 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: 25-5711, 25-6011. Telex 5243, 20243.
Branches at
150 Queen Street. Melbourne.
359-36!) Queen Street, Brisbane.
Cables and Telegrams:
Ordcrley: Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane
LANCE GRAHAM & CO
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock Exchange
56 HUNTER STREET
SYDNEY
Telephone: 28-5721
Telegrams: Lagram, Sydney
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Limited Growth Prospects
Competition does not seem to be giv-
ing directors of Moran and Cato
(Australia) Ltd undue concern, although
shareholders may watch the market with
some misgivings.
The year 1960-61 brought the profit
peak for Moran and Cato, in 1961-62
there was a falling away, but 1962-63
showed some recovery. Latest net profit
was £434,603 after tax of £290,560
and depreciation of £130,388. A capital
profit of £52,337 on sale of properties
went to capital profits reserve.
Directors were reported “confident”
at the 1963 annual meeting. During the
past year several new stores were under
construction, and land was purchased for
future development.
No mention was made in this year’s
annual report to the growing deficit of
working capital, although in November,
1962, the chairman (Col. A. Spowers)
commented that it was the result of sub-
stantial purchases of freehold properties
and the reconstruction of old, or the
building of new branches, and ware-
house and offices in Sydney.
Fixed assets therefore increased by
£373,000 to £4,067,000, and at 1963
balance date they had grown to
£4,442,000 by similar additions.
The chairman had said in 1962 that
much of the expenditure on fixed assets
so far had little effect on revenue, but
directors were confident that in the near
future this outlay would improve returns
and considerably improve liquidity.
As the working capital position has in
fact deteriorated with overdraft now up
to £591,051, the company must surely
seek some more permanent capital. Loan
money is more likely than a share issue.
The last call for capital was in 1958
when a one-for-ten par issue was made
on capital before a one-for-four bonus.
Moran and Cato originated with the
retail grocery business of Mr T. E.
Moran in 1876. A partnership with
Mr F. J. Cato emerged in 1882, and a
proprietary company was converted to a
public company in 1950.
The holding company was formed in
April, 1960, by the exchange of two 10s.
ordinary shares for each one 10s. share
in the old company.
Otherwise there have been only minor
share issues to satisfy vendors of free-
hold properties.
The company now has 88 grocery
stores in Melbourne and country centres
of Victoria, Tasmania, at Mt Gambier,
Albury and Deniliquin, and 81 more in
Sydney and NSW country centres.
There are wholesale operating com-
panies in NSW and Victoria.
Moran and Cato maintained its
independence in the retail grocery field
while Coles and Woolworths feverishly
bought up other chains to obtain im-
mediate volume in the food business.
It may now have missed the bus for
a takeover although Safeways of the
US might find Moran and Cato an
economical vehicle for entry to the Aus-
tralian scene. Neither Woolworths nor
Coles is likely to be interested in taking
over Moran and Cato', as this would
just mean duplication of their present
network.
Both Woolworths and Coles are
placing greater emphasis anyhow on
supermarkets with parking facilities
than on the Moran and Cato type of
store. Woolworths, in fact, has closed
down dozens of the older type of
Mcllraths stores.
In terms of purchasing power retail
properties are about twice as expensive
to buy in Australia as in the US, and
this has been a strong deterrent to any
American retailing power moving into
the Australian market.
Leasing of properties is becoming
more of a feature with Woolworths, par-
ticularly with the supermarkets.
The cost of purchasing land and
buildings and of maintaining them is an
increasing burden to almost all retailers,
and unless Moran and Cato adopts new
policies, a diminishing return on capital
invested is inevitable.
For these reasons a price-earnings
ratio of 15.9 seems to discount the
future for Moran and Cato too far
ahead. With yield of 4.3 p.c. in income
and earnings yield of 6.5 p.c., the 10s.
shares at 23s. appear to have very
limited growth prospects.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 1744 1908 1757 1703 1752
Less current
liabilities 1294 1580 1975 2154 2327
Working capital 450 328 -218 -451 —575
Investments 41 41 41 41 —
Deterred assets 41 43 41 20
Fixed assets 2359 2890 3694 4067 4442
Intangibles — — — — 2
2891 3302 3558 3677 3876
Loan capital 35 28 20 — ’ —
Ord. capital 1369 2871 2902 2902 2902
Reserves 1487 403 636 775 974
2891 3302 3558 3677 3876
Depreciation 88 104 110 123 130
Taxation 243 292 347 309 291
Net profit 367 385 469 410 435
Dividends 198 239 290 290 290
Surplus 169 146 179 120 145
Earning rate 27.8 13.3 16.2 14.2 15.0
Dividend rate 15 83 10 10 10
Div. yield (a) 3.5 4.2 3.6 4.0
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 15.4 14.9 15.4 17.5
High price (b) 32 /7\ 45/3 25/6 31/- 30/-
Low price (b) 21/6 22/- 18/6 19/- 23/-
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.


#
THE
AND
STILL
THE
FINEST
White Burgundy
E
£HOUghTON
MADE IN
WESTERN
AUSTRALIA
BY
INTERNATIONAL FOOTWEAR IND. LTD
Growth of the Shoe Chains
nPHE Australian footwear industry has
lately seen significant developments
stemming from the growth of chains of
shoe stores. The greater buying power
of these chains led shoe manufacturers
to combine their interests.
Overseas manufacturers have bought
major interests in local factories, and
now four of the world’s largest shoe-
makers control footwear companies in
Australia.
The chairman of International Foot-
wear Industries Ltd (Mr J. Goldberg)
made these points in his foreword to
the 1962-63 annual report. It is his
belief that such trends will only benefit
the industry. “Large firms have the
capital and managerial skills to set
standards of efficiency which small firms
must equal to be able to compete,” he
said.
International Footwear’s subsidiary
Goldberg International Pty is the largest
distributor of footwear in Australia.
Numerous manufacturing subsidiaries in
Victoria and NSW produce Goodchild
footwear (eight million pairs a year),
Sally Horner and other brands for child-
ren, Raoul Merton and Packard and
other brands for men, and Areola,
Carinellettes, Wispees and other brands
for women. The company also imports
v
French, Spanish and Italian shoes and
sandals.
During 1962-63 the business of Areola
Shoe Works (Aust.) Pty Ltd was acquired
from its English owners.
Group sales increased 11.2 p.c. over
the year to June 30 from £3.8 to £4.2
million, and profit rose 51.7 p.c from
£105,960 to £160,687. This represents
37.7 p.c. on capital of £404,852, a con-
siderable achievement when compared
with a loss of £112,956 two years
previously.
International Footwear, the holding
company for the Goldberg Footwear
companies, achieved indirect listing in
1960, after the Goldberg group made
an offer to Wonder-Welt Shoes (Hold-
ings) Ltd, whose operating subsidiary
had been in receiver’s hands since
December 9, 1958.
The receivership was completed on
July 1, 1959, when Goldberg proceeded
to accept responsibility for Wonder-
Welt’s debenture debt and liability for
long-service leave, make , moneys avail-
able to purchase the debts of unsecured
creditors at the rate of 11s. 6d. in the £,
receive an option to purchase the sub-
sidiary’s shares at 2s. 6d. each, and
purchase all or any shares in the holding
company at 2s. 6d. each.
The name was then changed to Inter-
national Footwear Industries Ltd, and
nominal capital increased to £1 million.
Paid capital at 1961 balance date was
£402,625.
Shareholders registered on September
23, 1963, were offered a one-for-two
par issue, which brought paid capital to
£607,278.
A 121 p.c. dividend was paid out of
1962-63 profit, and directors anticipate
this will be maintained on the higher
capital.
As yet the tax provision is very low
(£24,063 in 1962-63) because of
accumulated losses. Directors expect
this benefit to be fully used in the current
year.
The 5s. shares at around 11s. 6d. (the
new shares are a few pence cheaper)
yield 5.4 p.c. Presexit earnings yield is
16.3 p.c.
Although it would be ambitious to
expect the company to hold current
earning rates, the shares could still be
an interesting purchase.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 1066 916 1196
Less currant liabilities 895 682 851
Working capital 171 234 345
Fixed assets 305 290 320
Intangibles 284 278 289
760 802 954
Minority interests 7 7 8
Loan capital 356 289 330
Ordinary capital 403 405 405
Reserves -6 101 211
760 802 954
Depreciation 21 17 15
Taxation 11 10 24
Net profit -92 103 153
Dividends — — 51
Surplus -92 103 102
Earning rate — 25.3 37.7
Dividend rate — — 12J
Dividend yield (a) — — 5-9
Price/earnings ratio (a) —- — 5.6
High price (b) 7/3 8/- 57-
Low price (b) 4/- 3/- 2/6
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
BOOTH INDUSTRIES LTD
Home Building
Troubles
TVrectors of Booth Industries Ltd,
Sydney brickmaker and timber
merchant, could not hide their dis-
appointment with trading results for the
year to June 30.
After ten successive years of increasing
pre-tax profits, and only one when after-
tax profit was lower, 1962-63 brought
forth a 33 p.c. drop in profit of <£53,758
after tax of £30,649.
The earning rate of 13.7 p.c. as
against 25.6 p.c. the year before
occasioned a drop in dividend from 15 to
12i p.c.
Booth was incorporated in 1952 to
take over all the capital of E. V. Camp-
bell Pty and Queensland Cypress Pty.
The company is now attempting to
dispose of the assets of Queensland


m
m
■
sSSi
,
;:v
Ti { "i
-r^..
M
3; .v>V Wc-<
••.V..AV ; :-*>-51..-»r>..., .. ',
'*• £- ?Wspw <
- • ... < y■■ - ~.i
y-i. a \ /
C S v%
For you . . .
only the best
ASAHI
Here's the camera that is the ultimate choice
of discriminating professional and enthusiastic
amateur photographers all over the world; the
camera that brings you picture perfection and
personal prestige!
Asahi PENTAX introduces you to a new world
of photographic delight! A wide choice of
incomparable Takumar lenses and a full range
of accessories puts you in command of every
photographic situation.
Asahi PENTAX SV with f/1.8 Takumar
Lens and E.R. case, £9O/0/0.
Asahi PENTAX S.I.A. with Auto.
Saner Takumar f/2 Lens and E.R. case,
£75/0/0.
Ask to see Asahi PENTAX at YOUR photo
dealer.
C. 957
Cypress, and so far has sold one mill at
a profit, but is dependent on clarification
of licence capacities by the Queensland
Forestry Department before it can sell
the rest.
Various small companies have been
added to the group over the years. Brick-
making has become a fairly important
activity, but unfortunately during 1962-
63 the establishment of two new texture
brick plants meant general overproduc-
tion of texture bricks.
Apart from the gloomy economic
climate for homebuilding generally, the
incessant rain in Sydney in April, May
and June didn’t help, either. Sales over-
all declined 5.6 p.c. for the year. The
rain created tremendous difficulties in
production at the brickworks, sawmills
and timber yards, and the reduced
demand caused a stock-piling of bricks
which accounted partly for the <£ 120,937
increase to £293,924 in stocks and
work in progress. (Takeover of four
companies during the year also con-
tributed to this increase.)
A Swiss Chambers Dryer installed in
the brickworks at a cost of £BO,OOO by
the end of November, 1962, has been
financed by a three-year loan from the
Bank of NSW.
Capital was increased during the year
by £76,200 through takeovers and a
placement of 100,000 ss. stock units
through a sharebroker at 12s. 6d. net.
Share premiums thus rose by £37,500
to £49,822, and the net tangible assets
backing is now 10s. sd. per ss. share.
Small by Stock Exchange standards,
Booth had nevertheless built up a nice
little reputation as an improving invest-
ment. Annual increases in profit, a
strengthening of dividend rates over the
years from 10 to 11 to 15 p.c., and a
one-for-two par issue in October, 1959,
all contributed to a healthy picture,
which has now been marred by the dif-
ficulties of this last year.
The ss. shares tipped not so long ago
for ascendance to 15s. have nonetheless
held fairly firm at 13s. 3d., where im-
mediate yield is 4.7 p.c. and earnings
yield a not-so-strong looking 5.2 p.c.
The market is therefore crediting the
company with the ability to make the
most of the generally predicted revival
in the building industry, but at that price
investors are not giving Booth any
margin for error.
It will be a couple of years before
shareholders receive in dividends the
benefits of that building revival, so it
would be wise to go easy on Booth
shares for the time being. Excess
capacity in the brick industry is probably
here to stay, so competition will con-
tinue keen.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£ ; 000)
1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 215 236 255 303 453
Less current
liabilities 149 224 246 275 280
Working capital 66 12 9 28 173
Fixed assets 242 479 577 600 706
Investments 38 22 30 21 13
346 513 616 649 892
Loan capital — — — — 75
Ord. capital 197 314 314 314 391
Reserves 149 199 302 335 426
346 513 616 649 892
Depreciation 2) 26 46 48 59
Taxation 30 34 37 50 31
Net profit 48 57 61 81 54
Dividends 22 28 35 47 47
Surplus 26 29 26 34 7
Earning rate 24.1 22.2 19.4 25.7 14.3
Dividend rate 11 11 11 15 12J
Div. yield (a) 5.6 6.1 4.7 5.9
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 8.3 8.2 12.1 10.0
High price (b) 7/3 10/- 13/9 12/3 13/9
Low price (b) 5/2 6/2 8/6 8/— 11/-
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
JOHN SACKVILLE AND SONS LTD
Clothier’s Sound Record
/Clothing manufacture is traditionally
a variable business, but John Sack-
ville and Sons Ltd of Melbourne has, at
least in its 13 years public history, an
unblemished record.
Profits have been earned each year,
giving ample cover for a minimum
dividend rate of 12i p.c., and share-
holders have received two bonuses in
generous proportions—a one-for-four in
May, 1953, and a two-for-three in
November, 1960.
The business began in 1917 in Mel-
bourne and was incorporated as a private
company 11 years later. It makes men’s
and boys’ outerwear, so the risk of
fashion changes is not so great as with
women’s clothing.
In February, 1960, the company
bought out Josephson and Sons Pty
Ltd, which was Queensland’s largest
manufacturer and wholesaler of men’s
and boys’ clothing, particularly in-
dustrial clothing and fashion shirts.
Josephson had a subsidiary, Harvard
Pty Ltd.
Two months later it acquired the
business of K. G. G. Crossley and Co.,
an Australia-wide distributor of “Kenric”


i
h
This is
THE NATIONAL TELEVISION NETWORK
Television is now. It is alive. It is immediate. And with the leasing
of the Sydney-Melbourne-Canberra co-axial cable by the National
Television Network, it's now live and immediate in all three cities.
Now Melbourne people come to Sydney—7 nights a week. Now Sydney
people go to Melbourne—daily. Now over 2 million different
Australians take the channel 9 news on the National Television
Network—weekly.
Now people in SYDNEY and
ON THE NATIONAL
TCN 9 Sydney—Artarmon Rd., Willoughby, 43-0444.. Sales: Ist Floor, Cricket House, George St., Sydney, 27-2881;
Melbourne-247 Collins St., Melbourne, 63-8336.
i
clothing. Three months after that, Colac
Clothing Co., manufacturer of men’s
and boys’ wear in Colac (Vic.), was
acquired.
Each of these acquisitions involved
the premium issue of Sackville shares
(and, in the case of Josephson, the pay-
ment of £492,500 cash) which was the
source for the two-for-three bonus of
1960-61.
Dividend was cut back after the bonus
from 15 to 121 p.c. This was equivalent
to 20-5/6 p.c. on pre-bonus capital.
The latest profit of £138,391 com-
pares with £132,557 in the previous year
to June. It was the second highest in
the company’s history, 1960 being the
peak year. Tax provided decreased
from £97,625 to £95,417, while the
depreciation charge rose from £19,345
to £22,868.
Liquidity is satisfactory, directors re-
ported in late October, 1963, and,
indeed, this has been one of the com-
pany’s strongest features over the years.
Liabilities which arose to finance the
1960 acquisitions have been progressively
reduced.
Directors found conditions in the
textile industry somewhat difficult in
the second half of the year, so profit
suffered by comparison with the first
half. Turnover for the first quarter of
1963-64 is slightly lower than for the
previous corresponding period, but
economies have held profit at a satis-
factory level.
Annual reference is made in directors*
reports to shareholders of the com-
pany’s liquidity enabling it to purchase
stocks on advantageous terms. Stocks
this year rose from £466,297 to
£501,401.
Reserves of £852,004 support paid
capital of £612,500. They are mainly
retained profits. Capital reserves are
minimal. The special reserve of
£115,213 has appeared in the balance
sheet for many years, without descrip-
tion.
The company makes garments under
licence to Michaels-Stern of New York,
and this year welcomed the visit of one
of its senior executives.
The 5s. shares are currently quoted
around 10s. 6d. to yield 6.0 p.c. in
income and 10.8 p.c. on the earning
rate of 22.6 p.c.
The company is not burdened by
fixed interest borrowings, and the
financial structure generally is very
sound. A return to the 15 p.c. dividend
would be well within the company’s
capacity.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 609 1051 951 929 976
Less current
liabilities 242 725 580 631 722
Working capital 367 326 371 298 254
Investments — 35 — — —
Fixed assets 259 372 417 422 508
Intangibles 105 608 723 723 723-
731 1341 1511 1443 1485
Loan capital — 180 165 40 20
Ord. capital 250 32? 613 613 613
Reserves 481 838 733 790 852
731 1341 1511 1443 1485
Depreciation 15 16 19 19 23
Taxation 44 106 99 98 95
Net profit 70 153 127 133 138
Dividends 38 40 77 77 77
Surplus 32 113 50 56 61
Earning rate 27.5 47.3 20.7 21.6 22.6
Dividend rate 15 12J 12J 12J \2\
Div. yield (a) 5.9 5.8 6.4 5.7
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 9.3 8.1 9.4 10.2
High price (b) 13/- 21/6 10/3 11/6 12/—
Low price (b) 8/6 8/6 8/5 9/6 10/—
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year; 1963 year to Oct. 31.


. . WE NOW CROSS TO MELBOURNE
But that's only part of the story of the co-ax. The other side is the
entertainment —"Sound of Music"; "Noel Ferrier Show"; "It Could Be
You"; "Say When"; "Concentration"; and "Take The Hint"; the Hanlon
"Show Of Surprises" and the rest —seen simultaneously across the
continent. The "co-ax" and the National Television Network open a
new era in Australian TV.
ore sold live
- *.•
**
Wtf*
-■■■:. y
CHAM N E L
9
TELEVISION NETWORK
GTV 9 Melbourne-22 Bendigo St., Richmond, 42 0201. Sales: 22 Bendigo St./Richmond, Victoria, 42-0201;
Sydney— lst Floor, Cricket House, George St., Sydney, 27-2881.
'v'4-v
THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Tractor Tests Threatened
Trade Doesn’t Want Independent View
for one in Sweden, Australia
possesses the only independent
tractor-testing station in the world—at
Werribee, near Melbourne.
Since its inception in 1957, the station
has tested only 15 tractors. Now its work
has come to a standstill, and a war is
raging to decide whether the station will
expand or expire.
The station, which has been running
on a budget of about £BOOO a year, has
depended on manufacturers to volunteer
tractors for testing. Each manufacturer
pays a fee of £250 to £3OO a tractor,
depending on its size, and incurs the
expense of wear and tear on the machine,
which is submitted to about 100 hours
of running, and various other overheads.
r , . Pirinr .
All told, he is up for about £lOOO a
tractor.
Lately the manufacturers have decided
not to supply any more tractors until
the system of testing is altered to suit
them.
Station costs not covered by what the
manufacturers contribute are borne half
by the Commonwealth and half by the
six States, and the work is supervised
by Melbourne University.
In accordance with this independence,
the station has always made a practice
of obtaining its tractors at random. The
manufacturers want the rules changed
to enable them to select machines for
testing, as do their counterparts in the
United States and Britain.
Advocates of the present system quote
experts as saying the performance of
tractors coming off a production line
can vary up to 15 p.c. They maintain
that tests on tractors selected for
superiority give a false assessment of a
model’s potential. Without any scientific
aids, they say, mechanics in a factory
get so experienced that they can pick
the best ones as they roll off the line.
Manufacturer-sponsored tests in the
US and UK have been consistently more
flattering to the machines than those
carried out with academic purity at
Werribee.
The champions of independent testing'
declare that £lOOO a tractor is moderate
for the manufacturer to pay for a test
that commands the respect of buyers,
and that embarrassment over the dis-
crepancy between Werribee tests and
manufacturer-sponsored ones overseas
has brought about the present squabble.
The system of tests carried out under
University supervision at Werribee has
been acknowledged by the United
Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organisa-
tion as probably the best in the world.
It is believed the University would pull
out of the picture completely if any
changes were made in the present rules.
Defenders of the station say that if the
manufacturers forced such a move it
would amount to a takeover.
The threat of such a takeover could


Jl
HOTEL
m
Windsor
To the out-of-town and interstate traveller,
The HOTEL WINDSOR offers a tradition of
hospitality and service, unrivalled
among Australian Hotels.
We invite you to consider the combined
advantages of the Windsors city location
and its excellent appointments.
Tariff
Inclusive of Breakfast
Single Room with Bath £4/4/- daily
Double Room with Bath £7/7/- daily
New Wing
(Fully Air Conditioned)
Single Room with Bath £4/10/- daily
Double Room with Bath £B/-/- daily
Children in same Room as Parents, no Room charge.
Children in separate Room to age of 14 years, half rate
Free Garaging for Cars of Resident Guests.
.c/I
T AUSTRALIAN B
S 4
qT6 v -
Spring St., Melbourne 63 0261 (30 lines)
(Parliament House opposite)
Telegrams “Telwinsor” Melbourne*
HW73 . VICS
Melbourne
THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY
EDITOR SYDNEY UNIVERSITY PRESS
Applications are invited for the position
of Editor, who will work as assistant to the
Manager. Sydney University Press. The Press
will be primarily concerned with the publica-
tion of scholarly works and will not be
directly concerned with either printing or
retail bookselling activities. Applicants must
be graduates who have had editorial experience
in actual publishing. Salary will be at the
rate of £2,500 per annum plus cost of living
adjustments (at present £lO p.a. for men
£8 p.a. for women). Salary will be subject
to deductions under the State Superannua-
tion Act. Under the Staff Members’ Housing
Scheme, in cases approved by the University
and its Bankers, married men may be assisted
by loans to purchase a house. Applications,
giving details of qualifications and experience
and the names of three referees, should reach
the under-signed bv 31st January. 1964. For
furthe r informer‘on ring or write to Mr D.
R. V Wood, mw e-w : 2. Extension or Miss
J. D Fisher MW 0522. Extension 429.
Sydney, M A Telfer,
November, 1963 Registrar.
MAGAZIN E
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Have your favourite magazines posted to
you and enjoy the convenience of home
delivery. We can arrange a subscription to
any magazine you require. Write or phone
for our big price lists featuring all the
well-known magazines, classified under such
subject headings as Pictorials, Hobbies,
Business, etc. If possible advise the name
of magazine or subject you are interested in.
JOHN HINTON PTY. LTD.
118 William Street,
North Sydney, N.S.W.
Telephone: 92 5903 (3 lines)
(When you reply please quote "Dept. 22")
be allayed if an organisation could be
formed to take responsibility for sup-
porting the station as it is now constituted
but with its scope enlarged not only to
put through more tractors a year but to
test other kinds of farm machinery and
extend into research.
It has been suggested that this re-
sponsibility might be made the lot of
some agricultural consumer organisation
set up by the National Farmers’ Union.
It is thought that farm organisations
affiliated with the union and others
could rally enough support to ensure the
station’s independence even after it had
expanded its work and assumed the ex-
penditure now met by the manufacturers.
Organisations have already taken up
the issue and are blazing away through
their official journals to stir up in-
dignation at the manufacturers and get
their members in a purse-tipping mood.
The Victorian Wheat and Wool
Growers’ Association and the Victorian
Dairyfarmers’ Association are campaign-
ing hard for resistance to the manufac-
turers.
VWWGA has told its members that
survival of the station in its present
form is in their hands. The VDA, which,
like the VWWGA, advocates federal
action through the NFU, believes the
station's objective should be to test a
sample of every model of tractor in the
country.
V
Almost 18 months ago the NFU first
expressed concern at the possibility of
the station being closed down. It called
a meeting between a sub-committee of
its own, the Victorian Tractor Testing
Authority, which included University
representation, and manufacturers. Barely
anything came out of the meeting.
The University, the station’s guarantee
of independence, has so far kept outside
the controversy, at least in appearance,
to keep antagonisms to a minimum while
reconciliation is still possible, but it is
certain that it will not relinquish testing
to the tractor-makers without baring its
teeth.
Wool and Champagne
Tn an age when the tendency for Aus-
■*" tralians and their enterprises to
drift into larger and larger lumps is
making an abstraction of decentralisa-
tion, the Victorian town of Portland has
just succeeded, for the second time, in
reaching an objective against this tide.
First, in 1960, the opening of its £7
million harbor enabled it to rejoice in
the fulfilment of a century-old dream.
Now, after years of opposition from some
of the strongest commercial groups in
the country, it has won a struggle to
establish itself as Australia’s 14th wool-
selling centre and Victoria’s fourth
after Melbourne, Geelong and Ballarat.
In 1934, Portland celebrated the cen-
tenary of its foundation. In 1960, 100,000


THE SCOTS COLLEGE
Bellevue Hill
Sydney
Master to teach Chemistry to Matriculation
standard required to commence duties In
the first term, 1964. For full particulars
apply The Principal.
THE KING'S SCHOOL
PARRAMATTA
Good opportunity for MASTER able to teach
Physics and/or Maths to top School level.
Start Ist term, 1964 (or 2nd term).
Applications and enquiries to Head-
master, H. D. Hake, M.A. (Cantab).
GILBERT AND ELLICE ISLANDS COLONY
CIVIL ENGINEER, with some experience,
urgently required for varied and widespread
tasks. Two-year contract. Salary range £1,381-
£2,790, plus gratuity and allowances. Apply
Overseas Service Bureau, 260 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne (63 5857 ).
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: HERBERT GEORGE WILSON TAKE
NOTICE that MAVIS WILSON has filed a
petition for divorce No. 2781 of 1963 on the
ground of your adultery with Marcia Helen
Dawson. If you wish to defend you may
file an answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street Sydney on or before the 6th January,
1964, and obtain a copy of the petition and
Notice of Petition without charge from J.
BIRNIE JACKSON AND COATES. Solicitors,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney. If you do not wish to
defend but wish to obtain copies of all
documents filed herein you must file a Notice
of Address for Service on or before such date.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SURPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: LORNA MAY SYKES TAKE NOTICE
that ROBERT PERCIVAL SYKES has filed a
petition No. 3306 of 1963 for divorce on the
ground of separation notwithstanding the
facts and circumstances set out in the dis-
cretion statement filed. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney on or before January
6, 1964, and obtain a copy of the Petition and
Notice of Petition without charge from lAN
J. HARVEY & COMPANY, Solicitors, 4
O’Connell Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: MURIEL JONES, late of Plunkett Street,
Warialda, N.S.W. TAKE NOTICE that ISABEL
NANCY HUNT has filed a Petition No. 4049
of 1963 for divorce against her husband
VERNON MARKHAM HUNT on the ground
of his 'adultery with you. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 6th
day of January, 1964, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from Messrs. PETER
S. UTZ AND COMPANY, Solicitors, 324 Pitt
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: VERNON MARKHAM HUNT, late of
“Pine Hills”, Warialda, N.S.W. TAKE NOTICE
that ISABEL NANCY HUNT has filed a
Petition No. 4049 of 1963 for divorce on the
ground of adultery. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 6th
day of January, 1964, and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from Messrs.
PETER S. UTZ AND COMPANY, Solicitors,
324 Pitt Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
MU
teachers
Highland Cream Scotch Whisky
Try it —and you’ll dig it too! So will
your friends! Wherever you find it,
water’s divine* — fifty-fifty with un-
mistakable Teacher’s. It’s the socially
acceptable drink. But there’s
no need to search for it. Just
ask for it anywhere—water,
fifty-fifty with Teacher’s.
*T/tere’s soda for those who prefer it.
N.S.W. Agents:
Tucker & Co. Pty. Limited
335 Kent St., Sydney.
Distributors of fine spirits
for 125 years.
Teacher
WHISKY
TW29.84S
THE FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
LTD.
FIFTY (50) YEARS
OF SERVICE
1 9 1 2 1 96 2
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, PUBLIC
RISK, WORKERS' COMPENSATION &
MOTOR VEHICLE
20 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
n 11? fptop^.
ALFRED S WHITE (Chairman),
D. G. PETTIGREW (Managing Director),
E G CONEN. T. K. MAGNEY,
A. G. PARKER, DOUGLAS WADLEY
B J LANE (Manager).
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Phone: 27-7401
people gathered there for a week of
harbor-opening festivities, and recently
2000 wool-growers and their families
descended on Portland for its latest
triumph, the opening sale in the centre’s
first series of five wool auctions.
Fame and fortune, however, have
been the exceptions in Portland’s history.
For years it has thought of itself as a
backwater by-passed by the ships that
steam along on the horizon, ignoring one
of the finest natural harbors in the
world; and by the primary products of
a hinterland that contains the Western
District, stronghold of the world’s finest
Merino wool, the Wimmera and Mallee,
which grow most of the State’s wheat
and fat lambs, and the south-east of
South Australia, with its sheep, timber,
oats and barley.
The town’s impotence was mocked by
a railway line that threads southward
right through this rich region. The line
is rusty from disuse, too lightly con-
structed to carry a decent load and so
badly surveyed that locomotives light
enough for the rails cannot cope with
the gradients. The southern rail route
from Melbourne stops at Port Fairy, 42
miles away. The town’s only rail con-
tact with Melbourne is through Hamil-
ton —itself virtually a terminus.
So Portland was delirious when the
cobwebs were brushed away for the
opening of the new deep-sea harbor that
promised such vitality. But it remained
to be seen whether the harbor would
attract the trade on which the town’s
hopes rested. Those who saw the first
sale feel that if Portland’s future depends
on wool it need not look back.
The occasion was full of drama. Mur-
muring had followed brief speeches, but
it faded to silence as the auctioneer,
Mr A. E. Dorrington, mounted the
rostrum and said, through microphones
relaying proceedings to the crowd that
overflowed outside: “On behalf of Port-
land Woolbrokers Limited, lot one”.
That triggered the fusillade of snarling,
snapping, yelping, barking and screech-
ing that makes wool auctions so insane
to the layman.
Beside Mr Dorrington on the rostrum
stood a magnum of champagne, pre-
sumably for the biggest buyer of the day.
The crowd laughed in surprise when, as
the hail of bidding ended, the auctioneer
thrust the bottle at the buyer of the first
lot, Mr D. C. Bateman, who secured
five bales of fine Merino wool for Swiss
principals at 93d. a lb.
Bidding over the next five hours kept
prices equal to ruling market rates and
accounted for almost all of the 5700
bales offered for £500,000. Some 60
per cent of the catalogue was bought for
a British firm by 24-year-old lan Whiting,
who set the pace for most of the sale.
Top price for the day was 130 d.


YOU OWE IT TO YOURSELF AND TO OTHERS SO WHY NOT BUY . . .
TIMES A YEAR
m
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface
Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
*N.Z. Subscription to Box 965, Welling-,
ton.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Con-
solidated Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Con-
solidated Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK
36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick \/ whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? |~j or
A renewal subscription?
Piease find enclosed my cheque/money
order for months subscrip-
tion to THE BULLETIN.
‘New Zealand readers may have their
copies air freighted (£4 4s. N.Z. for
52 issues, £2 12s. for 26 issues) or by
surface mail (£3 7s. N.Z. for 52 issues.
£2 2s. for 26 issues).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 774
ACROSS
I—Backward pupils responsible for this mishap in
planning. (4-2)
4—They love their land strike disturbances. (8)
10— Heel to testify as to the truth of a corpse. (7)
11— Organ comfort. (7)
12— As neckwear in the Northern Territory is most
unpleasant. (8)
13— Timber lodge. (5)
17— Shipborne crumb types. (5)
18— He certainly could paint 100 with t,he alternative
about the Governor - General
and one ring. (9)
19—Is some different manuscript
in imaginary lines linking
points of equal temperature.
(9)
21— Animal arrived with fifty. (5)
22 Is some girl having offspring?
(5)
23 Go wrong if I must hearten
this; it’s wonderful, though.
(8)
26—Who starts to go down? (7)
28— Isn’t went enough for twine.
(7)
29 American private backing no
telephone—paying no atten-
tion, however. (8)
30— Does badly in a branch of
literature. (4)
DOWN
1— Snickers arouse this brief
petticoat. (6, 4)
2 Hard - working Indian en-
semble joined by us. (11)
3 “Discovers” evil sun disorder.
(7)
5 Waggish structure. (4)
6 Managed an indeterminate
quantity. Sounds like price
to be paid for another’s libera-
tion. (7)
7 Frank king having nothing to
do. (3)
8— Cast off an outhouse with
women coppers. (4)
9 A reporter’s accreditation in-
volved in Red scraps. (5, 4)
14—Banter a crumpet’s urchins.
(ID
15— Revitalised slave is upset be-
fore he meets Kelly. (9)
16— Puppet ditty is a sitter. (5, 5)
20— Call beneath who closely and
relentlessly follows another.
(7)
21— See a bunk I would describe
a great artery of the neck. (7)
24 If turned in Spanish Africa
until recently. (4)
25 King George takes in an ex-
pression of amusement or
pleasure. (4)
27—Run into this vessel. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 773


mm
fill
mmm
'
'
■ss $ 5?' J ' <' ? v '
.-■ v-- •:::" ' jJJ 1
■ ■ ■ ".
iilPPlllillii
■■■■*■
liillllllfc
The luxury
of leather...
Luxury in the magnificent new Holden Premier starts
with genuine top-grained leather upholstery. Adding
further to your comfort and pride of ownership, Holden
Premier offers you just about every luxury appoint-
ment you could wish, including individual, contoured
front seats . . . rear-seat centre arm-rest . . . heater/
demister housed in a centre console . . . and deep pile
carpet. Outside, Premier models are set apart by
metallic Magic-Mirror finish, Premier badges, narrow-
band whitewall tyres, wheel trim rings and front fender
chrome windsplits. In every way, Premier offers you
distinguished motoring —at a price that typifies
Holden’s unmatched value for money.
New 115 h.p.
performance
Performance to match the distinguished styling and
appointments of new Holden Premier is assured by the
vivid action and smooth responsiveness of the new
115 h.p. 179 Holden* engine. It gives you power to
set your spirits soaring. Seven main bearings in this
great engine provide a real advance in smooth, quiet
operation. Exceptional quietness is yours to enjoy
thanks to hydraulic valve lifters, which need no
periodic adjustment. Completing the picture of
Premier’s effortless driving pleasure and convenience is
famous 3-speed Hydra-Matic* automatic transmission,
bringing you a greater measure of all the benefits of
automatic motoring.
THE NEW HOLDEN PREMIER
At £1,195 plus tax, the Premier Sedan’s combination of styling distinction, luxury and
performance gives you unmatched value for your money! Drive the new Premier today!
GENERAL MOTORS.HOLDEN S
H 290/


,/
«
m
*
m
m
■X
m
*w
%> ■
M.
y*
■ ■:■-*
r >
/
vi
The choice is yours-ask for Johnnie Walker
(and enjoy your Scotch more)
The famous Red Label on the squint.
As unique, as distinctive as the delight-
ful smoothness and mellowness of
Johnnie Walker itself . . . the Scotch
with a character all its own.
m 4 >
Available in miniatures, 5 oz. flasks, 13
oz. flasks and square bottles, and the
popular 26 oz. square bottle.
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
JOHNNIE WALKER
TH E S GOTO H
OF SCOTCH
JW2964
