

The Bulletin
Australia 2/-, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia SI
.'> s 'VV£SCs f“ '■* " .. ' “ * ~ r > iV ' J. : i j - - - . ‘'O '- ‘‘
ABORIGINES: The Vanishing Culture
4 PAGE
COLOR
iINSERT


I
•a
i;
m
m
%
■ #• -4
m
m
mm
■
*4. ■.*<&
*> '-a?
•«w
.
alias#
lißfiffiSiiß
■Ms&mSA
■
ilii
*
%s '■
%
55
"#
/
I
r
-
4
111
W:
V .a
M
as
IB#
M
:
a
m
l
* *
m
* I
m
*
■
. -sae
■* •■* ->■ - *
a
*
§mm
■
Waikiki Beach
*
sS^VfjCws^.-Vj
a
=®s-.
-a
,v;s#
f W/%||^\\VV% vSV
filter kings
SMOOTH FLAVOUR • 555
It’s time for you to enjoy the smooth flavour of Three Fives.
No expense is spared in making them from rare, smooth-
flavoured tobaccos. If you want smooth, rich, satisfying
flavour from a filter cigarette—smoke Three Fives. Discover
them yourself—smooth flavour —Three Fives.
The best cigarette in the world . . . preferred around the world
3/3 for twenty


National Notebook
Our Trademark
Tt has all the earmarks of the classic
-*■ anecdote. Members of the delegation
of 19 from the Japanese Productivity
Centre, at present in Australia, visited
BMC works in Sydney where they were
each presented with a handsome book,
“This is Australia”. Of course, it was
printed in Tokyo. In fact, by one of the
delegation.
The Japanese Productivity Centre,
partly Government-sponsored, has 400
employees. It was got under way by the
United States and given 1,000,000 dol-
lars to help it get established. The Aus-
tralian Productivity Council, a private
body, which is acting as host here, has
one full-time employee. The council
modestly admits that the Japanese dele-
gation hopes to learn about
rather than learn our productivity
techniques.
Melbourne Chic
efforts to assume a spur-
ious air of cosmopolitanism are be-
coming slightly comic. Having at last
decided to acquire a city square, it per-
sists in referring to it as a “plaza”. Why
the name of a Spanish
market place should be
bestowed on a grass plot
in front of St Paul’s
Cathedral is no more
obvious than it is why a
hall in the Exhibition
Building used for semi-
State shivoos is called (and atrociously
miscalled by the city fathers) the “Royale
Ballroom”. Nor why the appearance
(weather permitting) of a few outdoor
tables and sun-umbrellas should cause
the Press to chatter of “the Paris end of
Collins Street”.
Lately, too, St Kilda Road has be-
come “The St Kilda Boulevard”. Chacun
a son gout (as they say on the Contin-
ent and, presumably, in Footscray) but
Melbourne somehow remains the least
cosmopolitan of Australian cities, despite
the presence of eating places duly label-
led Claridges, the Ritz, The Dorchester
and Maxim's.
Local Color
did not look like flagellators but
the crowd gathered outside Angus
& Robertson’s window in Lower George
St, Sydney, the other day were not
letting any details escape them. The
window is given over to publicising Dr
Colin Roderick’s controversial new
edition of the alleged autobiography of
the Margaret St murderer of 1843, John
Knatchbull, the English baronet’s son.
(Not the least part of the mystery
associated with this murder is how Dr
Roderick came by the manuscript. He
will say no more than that a stranger
suddenly appeared in his office in 1959
and handed it to him.) As well as
pictures of Knatchbull and photostats
of part of the manuscript, the
window has a variety of convict odds
and ends. There are a couple of cat-o’-
nine-tails, some leg irons, the black
corset you wore so that the cat would
not hurt your kidneys, and a big wooden
peg. You stuck this in your mouth
(women used a gag instead) and bit on
it as the lashes hit your back.
But one of the scrutinisers outside
was sceptical whether this was a genuine
peg. There are no teeth marks on it,
he said.
Intrepid Types
Vachts such as Cythera, whose short,
A unhappy voyage was cut short when
she was hijacked at Lord Howe Island
recently, are not rare in Sydney. At
present there are six overseas yachts tied
up in and around the Sydney Cruising
Yacht Club’s marina at
Rushcutters Bay.
They range from the
graceful 65-foot schooner,
“Flying Cloud,” of Los
Angeles, to the cheeky
little New Zealand sloop,
23-feet with its mast
painted like a barber’s pole.
Crews are not hard to get. In most
big ports there are hardy, experienced
types who gladly sign on for a hop to
the next port or further. One US vessel,
the Monsoon, has changed its crew en-
tirely since it left San Diego eight months
ago. These crews are not only largely
unpaid, most paid their own food bills
and work their passage as well.
Crocodile Correspondent
'TVoug Lockwood’s “Crocodiles and
Other People”, just republished by
Rigby’s in a special Australian edition,
might never have appeared at all but for
a series of coincidences.
Six years ago Lockwood, then as now
Darwin correspondent for the Melbourne
“Herald”, won a £1,250 contest run by
the London “Evening News” for “The
World’s Strangest Story”.
In London he met Desmond Flower,
managing director of Cassell and Co.
Flower said: “Why don’t you write us a
book?”
Lockwood said: “What about?” C.
INDIA’S KRISHNAMACHARI
Page 6
A new image for his country
•
The Gulf between the Generations 12
Florence Austral 14
Conversation with an Architect .. 15
In Laos a Prince on a Tiger .. 19
Land Reform in Asia 20
Keeping the Game Clean .. .. 22
Music: the Case for the Contem-
porary Composer 25
The Collapse of Education .. .. 26
The Aborigines a Dying Culture 30
God’s Last Fading Smile .. .. 35
On Our Selection —1963 39
Lullaby of Wall Street 40
Forecast of BHP’s Future 47
•
TANNER ' 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA G
80 YEARS AGO G
AROUND MELROURNE ... 11
OUT AND AROUT 12
OVERSEAS 19
DISCUS 22
FORUHI 25
LETTERS 29
REVIEWS 32
RED PAGE 35
MAN ON THE LAND 39
WORLD OF RUSINESS .... 40
FEIFFER 57
CROSSWORD 58
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO
PTY LTD
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone 27 5971.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone 2 0666 Ext. 380.
Vol. 85
No. 4342


Reginald Willis, editor of “The Evening
News”, mentioned that Lockwood was
known in his own organisation as “Our
Crocodile Correspondent”, from the
number of stories he’d written about
them.
Within three months Lockwood’s
crocodile book was back in London.
“Crocodiles” had been out of print
since 1959 and all the type had been
thrown away. Rigby’s reproduced the
book by obtaining a copy and photo-
graphing every page.
Lockwood's second book, “Fair Din-
kum”, also out of print, will be repub-
lished by Cassell and Co. in a new Aus-
tralian edition about October. His Ade-
laide Festival of Arts prize-winner, “I
the Aboriginal”, the story of medical
orderly and Alawa tribesman Philip
Roberts, is near the end of its second
edition and is expected to go into a third.
Cassell will publish the sequel, “We the
Aborigines”, in October. Lockwood is
working on “The Shady Tree”, an un-
finished manuscript left by his late friend,
the bushman Bill Harney.
Mixed Grill
received in the art contest
■ sponsored by the Royal Hotel, op-
posite the GPO in Brisbane, have been
described by one of the judges as a
“mixed grill”.
The contest was sponsored by the
proprietor, Mr Laurie Quinn, who told
us that one of the side effects might be
the discovery of a Chloe. Four hundred
and ten entries were received. First prize
of 75 guineas was won by Brian Wil-
liams, of Newmarket, Brisbane, for an
oil, “Sydney Street”. Entries included
abstracts, nudes, landscapes, and paint-
ings of an aboriginal and a prostitute.
Mr Quinn has insured the paintings
for £9400. Entries will be exhibited in
the hotel’s passageways, private bar,
foyer and lounge. There will be none
in the public bar “Tiles on the walls
prevent hanging,” Mr Quinn explained.
Constructive
TV/liles J. Whelan recently forwarded
his subscription to the National
Trust. He refrained from writing on
business letterhead: he is NSW manager
for Whelan the Wrecker.
Mr Whelan is an enthusiastic collector
of Australiana. Apart from early etch-
ings and paintings of buildings which his
firm has demolished, his home contains
other evidence of major jobs. A circular,
brass vent, rescued from the Colonial
Mutual Life building in Melbourne, is
now mounted under glass as a coffee
table.
The National Trust need not fear his
membership is a Trojan horse act. Mr
Whelan is genuinely interested in preser-
ving buildings of real merit.
Marine Drive, Sydney
Our Marine Drive is something I am not
in love with a lot.
For one thing, to the analyst
it doesn’t exist.
Brisbane does better and Melbourne
betterer
and Kempsey, Perth, Hobart, Taree,
etcetera,
etcetera.
You drive down a street
in a sandwich or houses you’re just the
meat,
if you try very hard you can just . . .
no . . . not
see one yacht,
you might as well be (without malice)
in a town called Alice.
Never a yacht or glimpse of water
just glass and concrete, bricks and
mortar
and garbage cans,
delivery vans,
the backs of flats
in triplicats and quadruplicats;
drainpipes and fences
and tenementses
which are known as social experimentses
or sociological researches;
Also telegraph rods, poles or perches
and perhaps between
two backsides, the Queen,
well, not the Queen, no, perhaps not,
but the Royal Yacht
just slipping behind the Recruiting
De-pot.
And who’s not seen
our Quarantine
on a golden day!
pray it stays that way.
And let us preserve
the Army Reserve
No Entries
(with sentries);
long reaches of private beaches,
"We have led the Bantu out of barbarity . , •
from the jungle


Without Price
A leading chain store last year ad-
vertised cans of Japanese oysters,
each guaranteed to contain one cultured
pearl. One lucky Sydney housewife
scored two matching pearls in the one
tin.
Her husband had these mounted as
drop earrings, at a cost of 30s. The
jeweller valued the pair at £9 10s.: not
bad for a ss. tin of edible oysters.
This Week’s Cover
T'his week’s cover has been identified
for us by Emeritus Professor A. P.
Elkin. Professor Elkin says this is a
north-east Arnhem Land painting of a
man dancing in ceremonial dress. The
ceremony seems to be secret as some
secret emblems are shown on either side
of the painting. The color transparency
of the painting came from the Institute
of Aboriginal Studies, Canberra.
wharves and smoke stacks
graving docks and loading racks;
a morass, alas,
of home units en masse,
preserves, and jams traffical,
man-made barriers plus those geograph-
ical
and in the making, a House for Opera
than which nothing could be properer.
And the harbour lies
a big surprise
behind, between, below.
0!
for a motor drive from which to watch it
dotted all over with yot and yatchet.
PAT FLOWER
Tanner
into the Middle Ages."
PLAIN ENGLISH
REFUGEES FROM THE INDONESIANS?
the question of West New Guinea political refugees came up
last year the Federal Government announced that asylum would be
granted West New Guineans in East New Guinea on “high, humanitarian
grounds. Since then a number of West New Guineans has sought asylum
in Australian New Guinea. Many have been students from Hollandia
without any real political background and without any genuine grounds
for fearing retaliation by the incoming Indonesian administration. Others
have been little better than disconsolate opportunists, Hawaiian-shirted
bodgies who have heard that East New Guinea is a land flowing with
milk and honey where they might hope to get easy, well paid jobs and
a beer ration. Yet others have been advised by former Dutch teachers—
either through stupidity or malice —that they must cross the border “and
continue the fight” against Indonesian imperialists.
All of these categories including some semi-primitives caught up
in the momentary enthusiasm of a new migration have been refused
asylum and turned back—and rightly. The case of the seven students in
Port Moresby is somewhat different. While it may be hard to make out
a case for them on the grounds that they are genuine political activists
there is every ground to believe they may suffer severe disciplinary action
if on their return they do not co-operate with the new administration.
There have been many beatings of students by Indonesians during the
UNTEA period and some students were held in gaol. Others have been
intimidated in various ways.
These are the exceptions among the majority which has accepted
the Indonesian administration with an enthusiasm equalled only bv its
tearfulness when the Dutch departed. However, it is with exceptions
that the Government must deal. The Port Moresby seven are better
educated than their fellow students on the West side of the island, they
are politically more sophisticated, they have greater skills and they have
been cut off from their families and their contacts in West New Guinea
in some cases for several years.
Provided they can satisfy the Administration and the Government
that they genuinely intend not only to finish their courses but intend to
remain in East New Guinea as useful citizens they should be allowed to
stay and any Indonesian Government pressure for their return resisted.
If in the difficult years ahead discontented East New Guineans seek
asylum in Hollandia there is little doubt that Indonesia would resist any
pressures from Canberra for their return.
THE NEW INDIA
PLAIN speaking and an unequivocal attitude to its western friends
were not hallmarks of Indian policy in the years gone by the
dangerously torpid years when China led its great neighbor down the
garden path. India’s awakening to the hard facts of life was an exceed-
ingly brutal one and the danger is by no means over. India is now
showing the world a much tougher face and there is no lack of plain
speaking these days—to friends or enemies. On page 6is an interview
with India’s tough talking T. T. Krishnamachari, Minister for Economic
and Defence Co-ordination, who visited Australia last week, as he said,
“to speak frankly and get to know you.”


THIS AUSTRALIA
INDIA AND AUSTRALIA
India’s New
Message
Loud and clear
By PETER HASTINGS
KRISHNA MENON
The old image
new image of India —tough, resis-
tant and determined after the surreal-
ist years of lofty non-alignment and Sino-
Indian friendship is being cast clear
and sharp throughout the world and
nowhere sharper and clearer than in
Australia last week during the brief visit
of India’s T. T. Krishnamachari, Minister
for Economic and Defence Co-ordina-
tion —first of a number of senior Indian
politicians who intend visiting Australia
to get the message across. A man of
soft hands and frail figure, Mr Krish-
namachari is a successful 64 years old in-
dustrialist from Madras who has been
in and out of Cabinet since 1952. De-
ceptively quiet in manner and speech—
the very antithesis of Krishna Menon
-—he spoke out clearly and unequivocally
to every Australian he met from the
Prime Minister down. One of India’s
big five the others being Prime
Minister Nehru, Finance Minis-
ter Desai, Home Affairs Minister Shastri
and Defence Minister Chavan —he said
that China remains the big crisis for
India. “It will remain so for 25 years,”
he said, “before their aggressive, expan-
sionist dynamic quietens down. It is not
merely a matter of Communism, you see,
but the old Chinese urge to dominate, to
humiliate. The Chinese are very tough
and ruthless. They beat us militarily last
year for two reasons. We had an incom-
petent general and they employed
Korean tactics their soldiers went in
again and again over the bodies of their
own dead. Finally we had no ammunition
left in some places.”
And now?
“We are better prepared, better
organised. In fact our Canberra jets
could bomb their lines of communica-
tion in the north-east but that might
invite them to bomb our cities and in-
dustrial complexes in turn.”
The veil was now torn from India’s
eyes?
“Completely. The early years of Sino-
Indian relations were complicated. There
was non-alignment, the fact that we be-
lieved Chinese protestations, faulty,
sometimes fatuous, information from our
representatives in Peking . .
And the real reasons for China's
attack?
“To humiliate us, to embroil Russia,
to prove to Burma, Ceylon and other
Asian nations that we could be defeated
militarily despite our size, fatally to
destroy our economy and development
plans. But China has big problems in
that respect too. They must feed people
and they haven't yet broken through the
poverty line. I think we have. I think
we can develop economically and still
manage a bigger defence burden . .
And the Russians?
“They are changing, you see. The
younger generation is different. As you
know I was Minister responsible for put-
ting in new steel mills in India, R sian
built and financed. I and my experts
complained to them that things were not
right, the equipment faulty, the delivery
dates wrong, the plans badly designed.
The younger Russian technicians would
agree with me and then something would
be done. I remember complaining to
Mikoyan's son about some of the work.
He agreed completely. But they feared
official disapproval at home very often.
Khrushchev’s problem at home, you see,
is rising living standards which breeds
criticism, a desire to be free. Somehow
he has to balance that. The Russians
do not want war. They know what total
war is like. They know what they would
lose in a nuclear war. The Chinese do
not. Mao, Chou en-Lai, Liu Shao-che, all
of them would welcome a nuclear war.
If China lost 500,000,000 people they
would still have 300,000,000 left to rule
the world. That is Chinese thinking.”
In the current crisis with China and
the row over Malaysia did India have
any influence in Djakarta?
“Very little I think. We want to be
friends with Indonesia but President
Soekarno is a vain man who jumps this
way and that and I have the feeling that
his ministers are without much influence
or power. They are overshadowed by
him.”
Was their food for thought in the fact
that the Indonesians were, like Indians,
anti-Chinese?
“They say they are and it is generally
thought they are but their policies are
so fluctuating one wonders. Take their
anti-Malaysia policy, for example. And
do not forget their huge Communist
Party, 2,500,000 strong, which looks to
Peking. Whether the Army can eventual-
THE ANTI-CHINESE RACKET
May 5, 1883
There was another anti-Chinese
meeting on the Wild River (N.Q.)
the other night. It having been pro-
posed that, “We the farmers residing
in the Tinaroo district, wish the
miners and business people of Her-
berton to co-operate with us to keep
the influx of Chinese out of the dis-
trict”, Mr Gwynne, surveyor, moved
this amendment:— “That the miners
and residents of this district solemnly
pledge themselves not to touch, taste,
or handle the. produce of any China-
man, nor employ them in any kind of
labour whatever.” He remarked that
he had employed a Chinese, a Kanaka,
and six Europeans. The Kanaka was
the best man of the lot, the China-
man the next, and the six whites were
at that moment dead drunk in his
camp. If the meeting was prepared to
act consistently, all right; but if not,
and anyone dared to interfere with
him or his servants on the anti-
Chinese racket, they’d have to be
prepared to take the consequences,
for he did not intend to be buliied.
THhe North Queensland papers are
already advocating the importa-
tion from New Guinea of labour for
the sugar plantations.


iy handle the PKI is a matter for specu-
ation. . .”
And Malaysia?
“It is an attempt to establish a stable
federation in the area and we should
quietly help it although Malaysia will
have its problems. The Chinese form a
very large percentage of its population
and are the most advanced and energetic
peoples in the area. The Malays may
eventually form a minority. And there
is the question of what happens after
the Tunku.”
Had India’s attitude to SEATO
changed?
“Not really. I think its uses limited.
It was carried by Dulles who had a one-
track mind and saw everything as either
black or white. It is ironic, you see,
that Dulles who had no great intellect
should have carried Congress, and that
Kennedy who is a very intelligent man
willing to try new things, even to be
daring, cannot carry Congress.”
What were India’s relations with Bri-
tain and the US?
“Well, of course, Britain is the centre
of the old Commonwealth and we have
always valued the Commonwealth. We
might have destroyed it in 1947. We
didn’t because we believe in it. As for
Britain itself? Well, our relations with
the parent country are warm, but
perhaps, these days, not all that
close. Britain can no longer influ-
ence or take the major decisions. Its
interests are contracting to Europe and
even there, you see, it has not got all
that much influence, has it? On the top
levels we do not know closely so many
leaders in Britain. Mr Nehru re-visits
England, he has many roots there, but
his relations with Macmillan while cor-
dial are not close. We knew Gaitskell
well, of course, but he is dead. But, no,
the parent country no longer occupies the
same place in our view of the world de-
spite the things we value her for, the
English language, parliament, demo-
cratic institutions . . . We are not all that
close to America either despite our grati-
tude for the help given us in the crisis
and the tactful way in which it was given.
India is very isolated in the world and
that is why I am here.”
Not merely to buy things?
“Not at all. I have not come to ask
or beg for this or that. I have come here
to get to know you better. Should oc-
casion arise I want to be able to write
to your Prime Minister or Mr Whitlam
personally. I want to be able to feel
that I know what Australians are think-
ing in a particular situation. India is not
all that far from Australia, you know.
Many more Indians must come here and
many more Australians must go to India.
Why not? We have the same sort ot
things in common that we have with Bri-
tain, except that Australia and India
have common interests in the area. Aus-
tralia is industrially a sophisticated, fast
developing country. I would like to see
us buying machinery and goods from
Australia which is closer than Britain
or America.”
Did he think Australia and India
could be linked in a wider defence
scheme?
“First things first. From understand-
ing other things can grow.”
Did he think Australia should arm
itself?
“Yes. With your industrial capacity
you should have first-class air striking
power and a modern, powerful Navy.
With your small numbers you cannot
carry a large Army but the other two
services seem very important to me. I
do not believe there is any value in
small, relatively weak Powers having
nuclear weapons. It is silly for Britain
to have them and even sillier for France.
We could make nuclear weapons in
India. So could you, but for what pur-
pose? 1 believe it is safest when the two
big Powers have them. There is less
chance of accidents than when a country
like Albania has them, for example.”
HEALTH
The Medical Split
The Computer Cometh
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
J. D. KENNY
Take-over?
Tf the Pressmen of Sydney were to get
A around to awarding a local booby
prize for the worst Press relations of
the last year or so the obvious winner
by a substantial margin would be the
Hospitals Contributions Fund of NSW.
The question of the woeful Press rela-
tions of the HCF, however, is a matter
of more general importance because its
clumsiness has obscured the realities of
a situation which potentially affects at
least 1 in 4 of the State’s population.
Furthermore the State Government’s
reaction to the public confusion about
the Fund’s activities may lead to the
establishment of a NSW Government-
run hospital and medical benefits fund,
thus radically changing the established
pattern of health insurance in Australia.
The truth in disputes about the con-
duct of the HCF over the last six months
is difficult to determine. The Fund,
founded in 1932 by metropolitan public
hospitals, has about 350,000 contributing
members, covering at least 800,000
people. It emerged into the glare of the
spotlight of public controversy last
October with an announcement of its
intention to end the relatively recent
administrative merger with the Medical
Benefits Fund, which came into being
only in 1947 founded by doctors in
response to the threat of a National
Health Scheme and rising post-war costs.
No clear reason was given by the
HCF for the projected end of the merger.
But in retaliation the MBF launched a
full-scale campaign against the HCF.
The campaign was ably master-minded
by Eric White Associates, an organisa-
tion not widely known to the general
public, which is Australia’s biggest public
relations firm.
In a series of well-managed Press
conferences and statements the Chair-
man of MBF, Sir Ronald Grieve, a
suburban GP, expressed puzzlement and
bewilderment at the move. The HCF
never got around to stating openly just
why the split was necessary, but various
arguments did dribble out. It was
suggested that the smaller HCF was pay-
ing too large a share of the running costs
of the unified administration compared
with its MBF partner with 870,000 con-
tributors; so HCF was said to be possibly
subsidising MBF. The HCF solution
was to split and cut costs, and also to
invoke the fairy godmother of modern
management a computer system to
replace the allegedly imprecise actuarial
system.
Personal motives were stoutly denied.
But there was evidence of tension
between hospital administrators who pro-
vide the HCF executive and doctors who
are 13 out of 17 on the MBF executive
committee. Further, a leading HCF man
is Dr McCaffery, of the Royal New-
castle Hospital, whose changes to the


established honorary system has made
him unpopular with some doctors.
While the MBF rallied the Australian
Medical Association and some top hos-
pital superintendents it was significant
that only 13 of the 37 hospital super-
intendents invited to hear its case turned
up at a December meeting. Sub-com-
mittee peace talks failed and the split is
certain to take effect late this year.
The HCF might then have returned
to exile, as far as the newspapers were
concerned, until the final split but the
State Government’s decision to increase
hospital fees from the beginning of this
month led to an inevitable review of
the scales of payment and increases.
The maximum scale payable went
from ss. to 7s. 4d., but increases were
slighter on lower scales. The director
of the Fund, who announced the in-
creases verbally over his home phone at
night, curtly told Pressmen who spoke
to him about nine o’clock that he was
eager to get to bed. The statement gave
a cautious and guarded hint of some
benefits after The Computer. What it did
contain in a casual way, without any
attempt to justify it, was a change from
the established practice of such Funds —
the limitation of benefit payments to the
actual amount paid to hospitals.
Rebates to patients who have stayed
in a ward costing less than their in-
surance scale eligibility had been com-
mon practice. It was on this issue that
the storm burst about the Fund. At first
its director, Mr Turner, doggedly de-
fended the change and put the responsi-
bility for it on Federal Government
policy.
But a week later at a full-scale Press
conference one of the vice-presidents,
Mr O’Neil, was prepared to admit that
perhaps public opinion had been mis-
judged. At the time of going to press
the Fund’s executive committee is dead-
locked over future policy.
The Australian Medical Association
joined in criticism of the Fund with a
certain amount of zeal. But the most
significant critic was J. D. Kenny,
secretary of the Labor Council, who told
a weekly meeting of his Council that the
State Government should act to take
over the HCF.
Whether the cautious NSW State
Government would spend the money
venturing into a whole new field of State
action is very open to question. But last
week, ALP executive members visited
Mr Sheahan in hospital to discuss the
feasibility of such a scheme. The
coming ALP State conference has con-
veniently enough on its agenda one
motion calling on “the NSW Govern-
ment to inaugurate by lawful means a
State Hospital and Medical Benefits
Scheme.”
TASMANIA
Starting the New
Country Party
"It will change the State"
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
J. McEWEN
Lesson of history
TTntil a few weeks ago, the Country
Party didn’t look like getting off the
ground in Tasmania. The infant, it seem-
ed, would be smothered in its own
blanket of secrecy.
In October last, when news first leaked
out that there had been undercover dis-
cussions between the Country Party
secretariat and interested Tasmanians, no
one would come out in the open. Mr
Charles Robinson Best, former Liberal
member of the House of Assembly and
more recently the Meander division’s In-
dependent member of the Legislative
Council, ridiculed reports that he would
lead the party. “I am firstly a member of
the Liberal Party and I have no intention
of resigning,” he said. “Secondly, I am a
staunch believer in the principle that the
Legislative Council should be free of
party politics. And my health would never
permit me to take the leadership of a
political party.”
On October 27 “Robbie” Best was
announced as one of a provisional com-
mittee authorised to seek affiliation of a
Tasmanian branch of the Country Party.
On November 7 he made a statement as
“provisional State chairman” of the
party. On April 6 Mr Best was elected
State president.
But if Mr Best was coy, other Liberals
were plain difficult. At least six members
or potential members of Parliament were
approached to take the parliamentary
leadership, and all declined. No one
wanted to be committed to a possible
dead duck, yet unless the party could
attract some names to its leadership it
couldn't begin to move.
In mid-December the party’s Federal
Leader, Mr McEwen, sent his Press
secretary, Mr W. Carew, to smell the
breeze. Carew reported “enthusiasm
among many sections of the farming
community” and the party’s State
organiser, Stan Huntington, promised that
six branches would be formed by mid-
January. Huntington, formerly of the
Liberal Party staff, appeared to have the
job in front of him, as it was widely
stated that Mr McEwen would not at-
tend the first State conference, scheduled
for April, unless the infant proved to be
lusty. And it was imperative that the
leader should bless the party if it were
to have any chance of survival.
Farmer organisations to which the
party organisers were looking hopefully
turned their thumbs down. They couldn't
afford risk of a schism on outright party
affiliation, yet it seemed that Huntington
and Co. could not get branches function-
ing without the co-operation of one of
these associations.
Some of the branches didn’t look very
promising, either. Suspiciously, they were
officered by dissident Liberals, farm
machinery salesmen, city farmers and
others without spontaneous appeal to
men on the land. Then things suddenly
began to move. Within a space of a
couple of weeks, three Country Party
members of the House of Representa-
tives, Messrs Peter Nixon and D. A.
Anthony and Deputy Speaker Lucock
got very good receptions at a number of
inaugural meetings. Office bearers an-
nounced for a dozen branches were dis-
tinctly of the right type. Huntington was
able to exceed the quota of 20 viable
branches he had been set as the price of
McEwen’s patronage of the annual con-
ference.
More than 50 delegates attended the
conference. They came from 23 branches
and half a dozen branches in formation.
Their air was confident, even a little ag-
gressive. Most of them were former
Liberal Party members or men without
previous political commitments, but a
few had been associated with the Labor
Party. There was some talk of Liberals
having attempted to stack inaugural
meetings of Country Party branches.
Mr McEwen, rushing to Launceston on
the eve of his departure for overseas, told
the delegates he was certain that the party
would win seats at the State election
next year. “On all recent history, the
capture of a couple of seats would change
the political balance in Tasmania,” he
said. This prospect, he indicated, should
rouse the Liberal Party from its 29 years
in opposition. The Liberals, he hoped,
“would show more ambition to be senior
partners in a coalition government than
to remain alone in opposition.”


As soon as he had left the State Mr
G. R. Lempriere, State president of the
Liberal Party, complained heatedly that
Mr McEwen has displayed a “complete
ignorance of Tasmanian politics”. Mr
McEwen, he said, had attacked the Liber-
als for allowing Labor to rule so long.
“Apparently he was unaware that Labor
came to office only when a branch of the
Country Party was formed in Tasmania.”
The party won five seats, but lost them
all at the next election, thus allowing
Labor into office.
The pattern is set for further re-
criminations between the prospective
partners. Meanwhile, Premier Reece and
his followers continued their studied
silence on the question of the Country
Party. So far as their public statements
go, the Labor Party is unaware of the
existence of the Country Party in Tas-
mania.
IN THE RED
The Decline of NSW
Communists
As bad as Victoria
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
L. L. SHARKEY
Cult
/\n the surface the problems confront-
ing the Communist Party over the
Chinese-Russian split are confined to
Victoria where there has been extensive
publicity surrounding the stubborn stand
made by Ted Hill and his associates.
Less well known is the fact that the
Party in NSW has suffered just as badly.
NSW has the largest membership of
any State (and the bulk of the Central
Committee and Political Committee
members) and it has always been in
NSW that the really decisive struggles
are fought out.
The past pro-Chinese attitude of the
NSW leaders is best evidenced by the
fact that the Political Committee gave
Sharkey unanimous approval to vote for
the Chinese line at the Meeting of the 81
Communist Parties in 1960. Further,
when it was first decided to take action
in Victoria the Political Committee
reached a decision by a bare majority of
one.
When Ted Hill was dismissed from the
four-man Secretariat, Sharkey, Dixon
and Laurie Aarons were all agreed on his
successor. They brought in the young
South Australian Secretary, Eddie
Robertson, an Aarons man. These four,
the strongest team in the Party, were all
based in Sydney and were thus able to
keep matters reasonably stable.
However, in May of last year, on the
night he was formally elected to the
Secretariat, Eddie Robertson died.
Inevitably, jockeying for the vacant
position began and the merits of the
candidates were judged by their stand
on the Sino-Soviet dispute.
Fearful of a split assuming the Vic-
torian proportions the Secretariat suc-
ceeded in carrying out the unprecedented
act of disbanding the NSW State Com-
mittee, all of whose members had visited
China within recent years, most to
attend lengthy schools at which the hard
Chinese brand of Marxism was dissemi-
nated. The power of the State Com-
mittee was broken up into small par-
cels and delegated to minor committees,
such as the Sydney District Committee.
It was via a member of this Commit-
tee, Hal Alexander, that news of this
action reached the public. In a speech
reported in the “Communist Review”
(December, 1962) he stated: “Since the
disbanding of the State Committee,
greater responsibility has been thrown
onto the Sydney organisation to lead and
direct the work in industry. Not yet can
we say that the District has fully
accepted this responsibility.”
The only explanation given to an
amazed membership was that this act
eliminated duplication of work and un-
necessary expense.
Unlike in Victoria, the pro-Chinese
group in NSW suddenly found them-
selves without a base from which to
work. Attempts to gain support from
younger members of lesser committees
proved unavailing. They, scenting the
spoils to be had in such an event, dili-
gently hunted up phrases from Lenin
that might be quoted in proving how
right were Aarons, Sharkey and Dixon.
Quick to capitalise on this situation
was W. J. Brown, in partial eclipse since
he had accused L. L. Sharkey and J. B.
Miles of indulging the cult of the indivi-
dual in 1956. That he is again in high
favor is evidenced by his attendance,
along with Claude Jones of Queensland,
as Fraternal Delegate to the Communist
Party Congresses of Czechoslovakia and
East Germany. These two men, along
with McPhillips, Thornton and Hughes
of NSW, Rivo Gar/dini of Western Aus-
tralia and Victorian Bernie Taft, covet
the authority that goes with a position
on the Secretariat.
But whoever may hold the position
does so in name only. The real fourth
member of the Secretariat is Eric Aarons
who is now being transferred from New-
castle back to Party headquarters in
Sydney. That he is not formally acknow-
ledged so is due to the fear of the charge
of nepotism being levelled at the Aarons
family.
The NSW branch has other problems.
Looming like a bird of evil omen over
the NSW organisation is its failing power
in the unions. No longer does it dominate
the AEU. E. V. Elliott’s long dictator-
ship of the Seamen's Union appears to
be nearing its end if their last elections
are any guide. By running a Labor ticket
C. Fitzgibbons could well gain real con-
trol of the WWF at their next elections.
Plans to amalgamate the Sheet Metal
Workers, Boilermakers and Blacksmiths
Unions, long high in Communist priority,
seem to have foundered.
It will need much more than the dis-
banding of the NSW State Committee to
stop the rot.
COMPANIES
Smart Promoter?
Borrowing short , lending long
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
big debate on how to put more
A teeth into Companies Acts and give
greater safeguards to investors generally
warmed up Australia-wide last week.
In Victoria, where the Companies (Trust-
ees Debenture Holders) Bill (see Bulle-
tin, April 13) was further debated, Mr
John Galbally said the smart promoter
could be expected to drive a coach and
four through the Bill. Mr Bolte, he said,
was the smartest promoter of Victoria
ever. (His face had, after all, once
adorned a brochure of Testro Bros, now
in receivership.)
Meanwhile at the Stock Exchange
moves were being made to clean up the
house or rather to clear brokers’ desks
for the better performance of their brok-
ing as distinct from their money market
and multifarious financing and invest-
ment activities. If these moves come off
small investors could well enjoy a better
and more impartial advisory service on
investment from Stock Exchange mem-
bers, even if, for full impartiality, a
divorcement of underwriting from mem-
bers’ functions, which isn’t envisaged at
present, would seem essential.


MODBURY ESTATE
WHITE BURGUNDY
!196 1
VlNf A<»t .
VOBURY ESTATE I
&ITE BURGUND 1 ®
This full, rich, white
wine has been pres-
sed from selected
Semilion grapes
grown on the gently
contoured vineyard
slopes of Modbury
Estate which nestles
in the Adelaide
foot-hills. The ap-
pealing fragrance
and flavour of
this wine, served
cool, enhances
the enjoyment
of cheese, sea-
food, veal and
poultry.
&
OS
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. P/L., MELBOURNE
ME2
Getting down more to the root of the
dissipation of secured debenture money,
in Hobart, A. B. Mellor, chairman of
the Melbourne Stock Exchange, said
that most of the failures have occurred
in hybrid companies engaged in multi-
farious activities. In almost every case,
he said, a finance subsidiary had been
used as the vehicle of borrowing, mainly
by means of first mortgage debenture
stock, which would then lend on to
other companies in the group without
charges or security in some cases to
acquire developmental land at inflated
boom prices. “It was a combination of
borrowing short and lending or invest-
ing long,” said Mellor. That is poor
financing, but is difficult to police.
That is why it is hoped that the statu-
tory trustees will get down to brass tacks
on this important matter. For whatever
new rules are made by Governments and
Stock Exchanges, it is the responsibility
of the trustee company to see that public
raised debenture funds don’t go down
the drain.
AIRLINES
Mr Ansett’s Best Buy?
Swallowing “Mickey Mouse
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
jVfR Reg Ansett winged his way into
WA with a vengeance when he an-
nounced the take-over of Macßobertson-
Miller Airlines by Ansett Transport In-
dustries Ltd.
His acquisition of all the MMA shares
held by the original partners in WA’s
only intrastate airline, Macßobertson’s
Pty Ltd, and a substantial proportion of
those held by Miller Investments, of
Perth, was one of the best-kept secrets
in WA’s commercial history. There were
some whispers of a take-over about six
months ago, but Mr Ansett’s announce-
ment caught shareholders and the public
completely by surprise.
For an undisclosed price, he acquired
an airline running about 50 routes all
over the State, one Fokker Friendship,
six DC3s and one Dove, and a steadily
increasing passenger list.
“A pioneering airline has passed under
the domination of an Eastern group
which will not be disposed to give the
same attention and consideration to the
needs of WA,” said Mr Calwell as soon
as he was told of the take-over. It in-
dicated the hypocritical policy of a so-
called free enterprise government,
whose airline policy was a judgment on
its sincerity in bringing forward pro-
posals against monopolies.
Mr Calwell went on to urge that TAA
should be allowed to start a service from
Darwin to Perth because it was really
an interstate route.
Civil Aviation Minister Paltridge, him-
self a sandgroper, came back with a
delicate euphemism and a strong finan-
cial point. The deal was not a take-over,
he said, but a straight commercial trans-
action. The association of MMA with a
large airline operator might well pro-
duce advantages, not only to the airline
but to the public.
Though the Government would con-
sider any move by TAA to enter the
Perth-Darwin route, it was a develop-
mental route and was subsidised for that
reason. It would be absurd to give tax-
payers the bill for subsidising two air-
lines when one airline now had to be
subsidised because of the scarcity of
passengers.
Neither Mr Calwell nor Senator Pal-
tridge brought into their arguments the
future benefits one airline might reap
within WA as State development speeded
up, but this point could not have
escaped Mr Ansett. Traffic on the north-
west routes has already increased con-
siderably and is likely to grow even
further in the next couple of years. On
the main southern route, to Albany and
Esperance, he can also look to increas-
ing traffic. The south coast is filling rap-
idly with farms and is set to become the
State’s major farming region. It is just
far enough from Perth to require regular
air services.
If the State’s future is as sound as the
planners claim, Mr Ansett might have
made his best buy yet in MM A.
MONOPOLY?
Oil Bubble
Mr Wheelwright's angels
Tn suggesting the NSW Government
A might buy bulk petrol from overseas
as a counter to the monopoly tactics of
the Australian oil marketing companies,
Mr H. C. Mallam, MLA. puts himself
on the side of Mr E. L. Wheelwright’s
angels, but he is forgetting that the re-
tail price of petrol here is virtually con-
trolled by the price-fixing bodies in South
Australia and Queensland and bulk
petrol (that is, the 40 p.c. of total con-
sumption not going through petrol sta-
tion pumps) is marketed on a highly
competitive basis with all gloves off.
Mr Mallam should dig deeper for
arguments before taking steps to add the
further burden which the importation of
bulk petrol would impose on the balance
of payments. Though there has been a
lot of prodding at it, if petrol is being
sold too dearly in Australia (actually it
is cheaper here than practically any-
where) a closer look might be taken at
the books of the international oil com-
panies who import crude and refine pet-
troleum products here. This would be
a more fruitful line of approach than
accusing them of monopoly tactics in the
Australian market.
Mr Mallam’s threat reads strangely
in the light of the various suggestions
put up in recent weeks to increase the
tax on petrol and so increase the price.
The Victorian Country Roads Board
wants sixpence a gallon put on the Excise
duty to bring in more money for roads
(though even now far less than the
amount collected from duties goes in
Federal aid road grants). The Austra-
lian Petroleum Exploration Association
wants twopence added to provide a fund
for subsidising oil search and (this will
sound as strange to motorists as it pre-
sumably would to Mr Mallam) to stop
Australia using more petrol than its
foreign exchange position can stand.


Around Melbourne
THE BATTLE OF RIPPON LEA
the past week the major crises
of the world have almost passed
us by. We have shown little con-
cern over crises in the Middle East,
Laos, over “Spies for Peace” why,
we weren’t even over-worried about
the damage done to Mr Angus Ogil-
vy’s Jaguar MK.X. No, all our at-
tention has been devoted to the Battle
of Rippon Lea. Now, to bring you into
the picture, Rippon Lea is one of the
most stately of our stately homes.
When ABV’s Channel 2 blossomed
into being it was built on a corner of
the estate on the understanding that
as the empire grew more chunks of
the estate would come their way.
That there was a real understand-
ing has been often stated and often
denied since. However, the ABC this
time said it wanted 4.1 acres of
Rippon Lea’s remaining 10 acres —
you will notice, already the Common-
wealth is into decimals, discarding un-
gainly chains, roods, perches and
such. Well, the owner, Mrs Louisa
Jones, then offered the entire
£250.000 estate as a straight gift to
the National Trust. For a day or
two the ABC seemed to be foiled. Ah,
but then Mr Davidson, the Post-
master-General, made it clear that
he would use all the power of the
Commonwealth to take the 4.1 acres,
no matter what. Mr Davidson said it
would cost £2 million for the ABC
to move elsewhere. So battle was
joined.
Some felt that the expansion of the
cultural activities of the ABC, even
to the sacrifice of Rippon Lea, was not
altogether an unworthy aim. Others
didn’t like one correspondent who
wrote: “The Commonwealth seems to
have greater powers than the ancient
Kings of Israel, for even Ahab took
Naboth’s refusal to sell his vineyard
as final until his wife found a means
of getting rid of Naboth first.”
In this case getting rid of Naboth
was damnably difficult. Well, the
National Trust had an ingenious idea.
Why not throw open Rippon Lea to
the public on a Sunday afternoon and
call a good, old-fashioned indignation
meeting? Your pioneer and 30,000
others took advantage of the oppor-
tunity. At times the invasion through
the front gate was reminiscent of the
retreat towards Dunkirk. There was
a traffic jam all along Hotham Street,
and for a half a mile around. Every-
body in Melbourne with a camera and
transistor who didn’t have anything to
do on a Sunday afternoon was there.
(It is surprisingly easy to have nothing
to do on a Melbourne Sunday
afternoon.)
Now Rippon Lea was built by Sir
Frederick Sargood in the 1860/1870s
at a time when Melbourne was stink-
ing with money. The garden was laid
out in the grand, classic landscape
tradition by William Turner, the man
who also designed the Fitzroy and Ex-
hibition gardens.
Rippon Lea depends entirely for its
charm and glory on the garden. Be it
understood the house is a shocker.
It is very large and solidly con-
structed, but how would you describe
it . . . some have suggested that the
architecture is Florentine, some Byz-
antine, some Spanish Mission, some
Georgian, some Victorian revival
gone berserk. But none of them fits.
It was designed between periods, so
to speak. One eminent authority said,
“Just describe it this way: It’s a
bastard.”
'V'es, all agree that the garden, above
'*■ all, must be saved, but as the crowds
poured in we feared for that too.
Normally a large peacock wanders
about to give the place color. How-
ever, it was nowhere to be seen. Ap-
parently it was battened down for
the storm. Nor did the owner, Mrs
Louisa Jones, make an appearance.
No doubt she must have looked out
the windows. If she did she would
have felt that Rippon Lea was in a
state of siege.
On the whole it was a very nice
crowd, but as the numbers grew they
began to cut through the flower beds
and there was an appeal to preserve
the seedlings. Ambulance men treated
12 people, and one gentleman had a
heart attack. The worst congestion
was over in the corner by the water-
fall. Hundreds got jammed in there
and couldn’t get back. So many
people squeezed on to the ornamental
bridges that there were fears that the
load would be too great and they
would suffer the fate of a larger and
more illustrious bridge in Melbourne.
The proposed 4.1 acres of the ac-
quisition was marked off by a line
of stakes and red signs the Nat-
ional Trust’s red band of courage.
The stakes showed very clearly that
once the land was gone Rippon Lea
would be permanently devastated and
the National Trust would be wasting
its time to proceed further.
Just after 3 p.m. the amplifiers
called together the crowd on the
main lawn in front of the house. The
speakers were G. A. Richardson,
chairman of the National Trust,
Professor Brian Lewis, the Trust
president, Mr Gainey, Liberal MLA
for Elsternwick, and Mr Tanner,
Liberal MLA for Rippon Lea.
Some remarkably cruel things were
said about the Government and the
PMG. As for the ABC, it failed to
make the most of a splendid news
story that presented itself right next
door. On the 7 o’clock news they put
the crowd at only 3000 and they gave
the show no TV cover whatever. Yet
they did one thing that was very in-
teresting. Whether it was by accident,
design or through a delicate pro-
gramming sense of humor no. one
will ever know, but at the very time
when the protest meeting was taking
place 3AR broadcast a play titled
“Village Green.” It was a story about
a sleepy village in Surrey which was
chosen as a site for a satellite town
by the Ministry, and, of course, for
eventual slaughter. The programme
notes said: “When Lady Edmonds
learns that her land is to be seized
she thinks up a brilliant but self-
sacrificing plan.”
It remains to be seen what further
brilliant but self-sacrificing plans the
National Trust has up its sleeve. For
several weeks, despite the pleas of
“The Age,” the warring parties, the
ABC or Mr Davidson and the Nat-
ional Trust couldn't even be brought
together for negotiations. The situa-
tion seemed to cry out for the inter-
vention of the United Nations.
However, at the time of writing
feelers appear to be going out at least
for a parley. Who will win? The bet-
ting at this stage is three to one in
favor of Naboth.
BATMAN


OUT AND ABOUT
The Gulf Between the Generations
A rise in middle-aged prurience?
By GORDON HAWKINS
Senior Lecturer in Criminology, University of Sydney
One of those indefatigable British
satirists, Michael Frayn, discuss-
ing in the Manchester, “Guardian”
the subject of sex, suggested that the
real social problem is not so much “the
delectable wickedness of the younger
generation’s sex life” as “the huge rise
in middle-aged prurience.”
No one concerned with the gulf be-
tween the generations can afford to ig-
nore the report of the New South Wales
Youth Advisory Committee which was
tabled on October 31, 1962, and made
public last month. The committee was
headed by Judge Adrian Curlewis, and
included representatives of Government
departments, local government, sporting
bodies and the churches.
The report, unfortunately, too fre-
quently reflects rather than dissects the
problem. So much so, that for some
readers its main interest lies not so much
in what it says about the “Wants of
Youth,” the “Views of Youth” and the
“Misbehavior of Youth” as in the light
it throws on the attitudes of adults. One
gets the impression that the committee
started out with firmly fixed ideas on a
number of topics and emerged from
their 17 months’ deliberations with too
many of them intact.
For example, what is one to make of
the following passage?
“The committee has no adverse
comment whatever about ‘rock and roll’
as a dance. On the contrary, it considers
it to be far better than the close clinging
embrace with little movement that was in
vogue several years ago. Rock and roll
provides energetic exercise with the
couples well separated .” (My italics.)
Reassuring as this may be in relation
to rock and roll, it suggests that the slow
foxtrot wouldn’t stand up to too close
examination; nor, perhaps, would many
other ballroom dances.
The committee says that certain
“weekly Australian magazines” are
“harmful to youth because of the stress
placed on sexual matters. . . .
“Already influenced by films and tele-
vision purporting to portray a way of
life, youth cannot help but be influenced
by suggestions that sex is the most im-
portant part of life,” the report says.
Yet one would have thought that the
real gravamen of the charge against
these periodicals is that the treatment of
sex found in them too often tends to
reduce it to the level of an infantile
game, and, in effect, to discount its
real and fundamental importance.
It is not clear from the account of
“strip-tease night-clubs” (which is,
oddly, included in the section headed
“Visits to Youth Organisations”)
whether committee members were them-
selves sexually stimulated by the “in-
tensely lascivious display” they saw. If
they were, they must surely have been
in the minority. It is hard to imagine
anything more antaphrodisiac than the
goose-pimpled wobbling around, inter-
spersed with stilted gestures, with which
gulled customers are currently being “en-
tertained” at strip-tease shows in Sydney.
It is to be hoped that no one who has
so far resisted the siren lure of these
shows will be influenced by the commit-
tee’s statement that “entry costs only a
pound” and their references to “sug-
gestive poses” and “music calculated to
increase sexual stimulation.”
The committee’s view on sex seems to
be that it is “a dormant urge in juveniles”
which we must avoid “exciting prema-
turely.” They acknowledge the fact that
“young people now mature at an earlier
age,” yet they sometimes write as though
young people wouldn’t have sexual de-
sires if the idea weren’t put into their
heads.
I don’t know the figures for Sydney,
but boys in London reach puberty at
13.8 years and girls at 13.05, and the
age for puberty in girls is apparently
going down at the rate of four months
per decade. Surely the young people
whom the committee observed “congre-
gated” in shops examining “magazines
designed to cater for those desiring
stimulation of the sexual urge” and ad-
miring photographs of “the female nude
figure not for their artistic merit
but for the provocative pose of the
nude” were merely behaving according
to the physiological state. The harm, if
any, lies in the debasement of taste
rather than the sexual stimulation, which,
any adult who candidly searches his
memory will admit, can be derived from
countless works of literature and art.
Still on the subject of sex, the report
says: “Every member of the committee


has had occasion at different times to
condemn some sections of the Press in
the strongest terms for prominence given
to news highlighting dishonesty, crime
and sex. These items, in the opinion of
the committee, exert a harmful influence
on juveniles.”
The committee also “fails wholly to
appreciate what is the educational value
or news value of the domestic difficulties
and matrimonial upsets in the lives of
film stars or other prominent people.”
They must mean “wholly fails” rather
than “fails wholly” because there is no
evidence of even partial appreciation.
Yet no one with any experience of jour-
nalism would question the “news value”
of such material.
Juvenile delinquency
Perhaps the strongest indication that
members of the committee approached
their task of finding out what was wrong
with youth with all their middle-aged
prejudices intact is found in the section
dealing with juvenile delinquency.
Here it says:
“During our inquiry a number of wit-
nesses were asked whether they con-
sidered the youth of today any wojse
than the youth of 30 years ago. The gen-
eral trend of answers was that they were
no worse and, if anything, were better.
In the opinion of the committee no
practical purpose was served by answer-
ing the question. There was enough evi-
dence of moral failure for the com-
munity to take stock of the social con-
ditions which have made better conduct
difficult.” (Again my italics.)
Witnesses who were obliging enough
to answer the question may well wonder
whether any practical purpose was
served by asking it in view of the cava-
lier treatment their answers were to
receive.
Anyone reading the report may be
more impressed by the evidence of these
witnesses than the committee apparently
was. For instance, the Commissioner of
Police said that “there has been no
marked deterioration in youth behavior
in recent years.” A spokesman for the
school lecturing section of the NSW
Police Department said that “the young
people of today are no different from
those of previous generations.” The RAN
said “there are few ratings who do not
have a ready acceptance of discipline
however hard it might be,” and the
RAAF believes that “the type of recruit
offering at present has improved con-
siderably.”
Of no less interest is the comparison of
juvenile delinquency in New South
Wales and in England and Wales. This
is given in the section on statistics. The
United Kingdom rate is roughly double
that for New South Wales.
The truth of the matter appears to
be that juvenile delinquency has at no
time assumed the proportions in Aus-
tralia which it has in the United States
and Britain. The most recent figures for
New South Wales show a decrease.
This is not to suggest that we can be
complacent, but that we should keep a
sense of proportion. Only a very small
minority of young people is delinquent.
For a variety of reasons, however, they
get disproportionate publicity. It is a
pity that the committee does not say so.
Another subject on which the com-
mittee seems to have at least half made
up its mind before it began is television.
The committee was aware that “no
proper survey or investigation has been
made among juvenile delinquents . . to
discover whether television has in-
fluenced their behavior.” Yet the com-
mittee seems to be convinced that “crime
sessions are harmful influences.” This is
in spite of the fact that Dr Doris Odium
gave evidence that “research shows that
there is no evidence that television has
an effect on youth,” and that Lady
Wootton of Abinger is quoted as saying,
when she visited Australia in 1961, that
“claims that television was harmful to
children have not been substantiated.”
It is difficult to understand what the
committee means by referring to these
statements as “too sweeping.” Nor it is
made altogether clear in what way crime
programmes are felt to be harmful. On
the one hand, it is said that such pro-
grammes coming from the United States
“will cause disrespect towards Ameri-
cans” on the part of “the youth of this
State.” On the other hand, the report
suggests that juveniles tend to adopt
“an imitative attitude” towards what they
see on TV. Possibly the suggestion is
that both processes work concurrently.
The committee also goes into some
detail about “acts of violence” on tele-
vision, but they do not seem to have
considered the view (or if they did, they
don’t mention it) that children are quite
spontaneously bloodthirsty and need fan-
tasy outlets for violence. Television may
not only not persuade young people to
engage in violence, but may provide
vicarious satisfaction which will make
them less likely to seek direct experience
of violence.
After all, children have long accepted
in fairy stories, without evident moral
dissolution, violence and horrific beha-
vior which can quite upset their parents.
In spite of all these reservations and
comments, the report is a valuable and
important document which should not be
ignored. The comments on such matters
as the “teenage cult” and the high wages
paid to youth are well balanced and fair.
The committee rightly stresses the
“great complexities of modern com-
munity living.”
One of the complexities of modern
living was discussed by the NSW police
(whose approach to the problem of ju-
venile delinquency is unique in its en-
ergy, understanding and refusal to 6e
stampeded by popular clamor). “It must
be accepted,” a police spokesman told
the comtnittee, “that conditions and op-
portunities brought about by the tremen-
dous changes in vehicle ownership, car
performance, road and traffic conditions
have created a new set of problems.”
They cited statistics from the NSW
Department of Motor Transport which
show that “the young driver is respon-
sible for about twice as many accidents
as his number warrants,” and that their
responsibility is “even greater in respect
of severity of accidents” (i.e. in relation
to deaths and injuries). It is suggested
that a committee or panel be appointed
to study and make recommendations to
the police and other authorities on the
“teenage driver problem.”
Judge Curlewis in his prefatory letter
to the Minister of Education, Mr Weth-
erell, says that in presenting the report
members of the committee were “con-
scious that much of the content is a
collection of information.” This is true
enough but no apology is necessary.
There is a desperate shortage of infor-
mation. For this reason the committee’s
recommendation on statistics and re-
search are important.
“During the course of the inquiry
on the subject of delinquency,” says the
report, “the committee found difficulty
in reconciling some of the statistics fur-
nished by different Government depart-
ments. The committee recommends that
the Child Welfare Department, Prisons
Department, Adult Probation Service
and Justice Department could usefully
agree on a standard form and time of
publication of statistics relating to
youth.”
Call for a survey
It is essential to any rational attempt
to deal with juvenile delinquency that
we should have available the facts re-
garding its nature and extent. At the
moment we haven’t. With regard to re-
search, the committee recommends
“that a survey be conducted by trained
social workers of the youth in training
schools in this State in order to discover
whether any particular influence, e.g.,
crime films in television programmes,
brought about the offence which resulted
in the child’s conviction.”
Such a survey might produce valuable
information, but there is a need for re-
search concentrating on particular
groups of offenders characterised by
similar behavior patterns. Vandalism, for
example, might well be considered as a
specific type of juvenile delinquency.
Some, largely explorative, work has al-
ready been done on this basis in the
United States but a great deal remains to
be done.


Twilight of the Goddess
“I want to have a good laugh at times ”
By MICHAEL SOUTHERN
There is every reason in the world
why Florence Austral should be a
bitter woman. Once hailed the
world over as the greatest Wagnerian so-
prano of her time, and one of the great-
est of all time; toasted wherever she went,
and invariably followed around by a host
of ardent admirers, she is now confined to
her modest suburban cottage at Mere-
wether, a suburb of Newcastle, NSW,
remembered only by her few friends in
this city, and her many friends in Mel-
bourne.
Multiple sclerosis, a disease that dog-
ged Mme Austral throughout her career,
and eventually caused her retirement as
an operatic soprano and later as a concert
artist, is gradually taking command of her
body. She has not been outside her cot-
tage in three years, and depends on
neighbors, newspapers and radio to keep
in touch with the outside world.
Mme Austral has leen pictured to the
world by journalists in recent years as a
poor, sick, lonely—and even bitter —old
woman. “I’m not bitter,” she told me.
“I know I could be, but I’m not. I can’t
be bitter, it just isn’t in me. I think I
take after my father.
“Sickness is something that usually
commands the body and the spirit
even the sense of humor. I’m disabled —
I know that —but I’m not sick. I still find
things to laugh at and enjoy. I can still
move around my house, cook, keep in
touch with new artists through reading
about them in the paper, or hearing them
on radio. I'm not really lonely either. All
my friends are in Melbourne and they
often write to me, and there are several
people here in Newcastle who call on me
quite often.”
Florence Austral's father was born on
the borders of Norway and Sweden, and,
when 16 years old, ran away from his
home, eventually taking a ship to Aus-
tralia. While on this passage, he changed
his name to Wilson, so any persons look-
ing for him would have a more difficult
task. “His name was Lindholm Wil-
helm Lindholm in a way it’s a pity he
changed it because it would have made a
good professional name for me. Any-
way, he met my mother in Sydney, and
they moved to Melbourne where I was
born. He died while I was a child, and
later mother married a man named Faw-
waz. I didn't really like him.”
As a singer, Florence Fawwaz first
came to general public notice in 1913
at the then famous Ballarat South Street
Competitions. In 1919 Florence Fawaz
(her stepfather had changed the spelling)
decided to go overseas —first to America,
then London.
Hoping to make an entry into grand
opera in New York, she arrived to find
the season booked. The director of the
Metropolitan was impressed with her
voice, but unable to offer her a role.
She took lessons in Italian opera, but,
generally disappointed with her prospects,
planned to travel to England and then
return to Australia.
It was in New York she first saw
Caruso —at the Met: “I saw his face and
neck turning a vivid red as he was
singing,” she said. “He was forcing his
voice to make some of the top notes. I
said then to the girl I was with that
he’d burst a blood vessel one day
and he did.”
Florence Fawaz went to London, and
there received some minor engagements
and tours, eventually climaxed by a re-
cital in the Albert Hall. But her desire
was opera, and in 1922 she was audi-
tioned at Covent Garden an opera
house which throughout its history has
proved to be the place of discovery of
Australian talent. She was engaged to
sing as Brunnhilde.
This was the time when Fawaz dis-
appeared, and Madame Florence Austral
was born at the inspiration of Covent
Garden’s director, Major Higgins.
Mme Austral made her debut on May
16, and was hailed immediately. From
then on she was in demand throughout
England, the Continent and the United
States. Among her favourite tours were
those to America, where she sang at the
great Cincinnati Festivals as well as in
major cities.
In 1934 she embarked on her great
Australian tour, with the first concerts in
Perth, and then in major centres on her
way through to the east coast. The end
of 1934 saw the start of a tour by the
Royal Grand Opera Company, with
Austral, Muriel Brunskill, Browning
Mummery and Horace Stevens among
the leading artists. After some triumph-
ant Italian opera, Australia then saw the
real greatness of Austral with a pro-
duction of “The Valkyrie”.
For Austral, these were memorable
days of glory days she still likes to
talk about, when the prophet received
honor in her own country. She had come
for six months, and a year later was still
singing here. In the middle of the en-
thusiasm for opera which the company
had stirred, Sir Ben Fuller announced
that in March, 1935, he would call a
meeting to put forward a scheme to give
Sydney one of the finest opera houses
in the world.
Now that Sydney is at last getting
round to building “the finest opera house
in the world'’, Austral will not be for-
gotten. Some of her tapestry work will
be featured there in a special display
room.
One incident in her life that Austral
likes to talk about is her meeting such
as it was with Melba. It was in Lon-
don, and both were appearing on the
same programme. Melba sang “La
Boherne” in the first half, Austral “Aida”
in the second. It was the following morn-
ing on stage when, as Austral was talk-
ing to the stage manager, Melba ap-
proached.
“I wanted to leave then,” Mme
Austral said. “But the stage manager
asked me to stay with him. Melba came
towards us, and then he introduced me.
‘You know Madame Austral?’ he said
to Melba. ‘Austral?’ said Melba, ‘who’s
Austral?’ ‘You sang with her last night,’
the stage manager said. ‘Oh’, said Melba,
‘she was black then’ —and off she went.”
Mme Austral is still interested in
operatic singers, and particularly in Joan
Sutherland. “I first remember her when
I presented the Melba Cup to her at a
competition in Sydney that I judged I
remember her voice. It was tiny—but it
had something about it that distinguished
it from the other competitors. I have not
seen her since.
“Generally, the sopranos seen today do
not seem to have the same power in
their voice that we had in my day. Of
course, we were big women, and the
modern soprano seems to be smaller.
Bustatious is about the best word to
describe our lot —they used to pull us
in at the waist and push the chest out,”
she said.
After the war she returned to Aus-
tralia, and settled in Melbourne. In 1952
she moved to Newcastle to teach at the
Conservatorium there. Her sclerosis
forced her to retire in 1959.


The Professions
3. Conversation
with an Architect
A sick profession?
By PETER COLEMAN
The profession has undergone a sort
of revolution since the war, hasn’t it?
Yes. The day of the old autocratic
gentleman-architect who had an inde-
pendent income and did a few water-
color sketches on the side is well and
truly over. Building has become a mat-
ter for technical specialists. It involves
much more than visual designing. A
good architect has to combine being an
artist and giving good service to his
client. To do this he should know about
engineering, acoustics, air-conditioning,
heating and so on. He needs a much
more general engineering and economic
training than he got in the past.
But in fact aren’t many architects still
unbusiness-like prima donnas?
Unbusiness-like, yes, too many of
them. But there aren’t many prima
donnas left. What has happened is that
with the increasing importance of
various branches of engineering and of
accountancy building, after all, takes
a very big slice of capital investment
the traditional architect is losing his im-
portance in the whole set-up. He simply
doesn’t know enough.
You think this a bad thing?
Certaii ly. The architect is the main
defender of his client’s interests. To do
this he shouid be able to co-ordinate and
supervise the work of everyone involved.
But he can’t do this unless he knows
enough about all the relevant branches
of engineering and about costs. He cer-
tainly is not doing this when estimates
are grossly inaccurate and contract
prices exceeded by large sums.
Why are estimates so often wrong?
With small buildings, such as houses,
this is largely due to builders being un-
trained, combined with the fact that it
has largely been a sellers’ market. Many
builders are only carpenters, after all.
Others, of course, have a better all-
round knowledge than some architects.
Now that more use is being made of
quantity surveyors in the building trade
these discrepancies will be reduced. But
it is still true in some cases the architect's
estimates are wrong because he is un-
aware of the technical problems that
may arise. Architects will simply have
to learn new techniques of cost planning.
Is this why we get “package dealers”?
It would be one reason. The package
dealer will find a site for your factory,
provide the plans, build it, all for a
fixed sum. The idea is that it’s quicker
than looking for a site, then an archi-
tect, then waiting for tenders, and so on.
It may work all right for simple rough
factories, but the client gets none of the
protection an architect gives him. The
package dealer may not even use an
architect. He doesn’t give you proper
site supervision, he doesn’t give you de-
tailed plans and specifications, he
doesn’t call for competitive tenders.
What about the Opera House?
Oh, every architect knew that the
original estimates of that were ridicu-
lously low. None of us has been sur-
prised about the increases. The only
unknown quantities concerned the con-
ditions of the site and they could have
been predicted. That’s a political story.
The Government wanted this prestige
building and gave low estimates to
begin with, and after the building had
gone beyond the point of no return more
realistic figures were given. It will be
a beautiful building and that’s what they
cost.
Do you say, then, that architecture is
a sick profession?
Well, the Royal Institute of British
Architects said so last year in its report
on the profession in Britain one of
the most thoroughgoing efforts in self-
criticism that any profession has ever
indulged in and many of the criti-
cisms made there apply here more so -
particularly in relation to all-round ex-
pert service to clients. But one mustn’t
exaggerate. Architects’ attitudes are
changing and many are fully abreast of
modern conditions and clients’ needs.
There is a nucleus of first class modern
architects who are setting the pace in
Australia.
How are architects trained?
Either in universities full-time for 5
years, or in technical colleges part-time
for 8 years. But the courses of study are
only now beginning to be modernised
and were until recently substantially
what they were before the war.
Are some architects academically
over-trained?
I think so. A good deal of some archi-
tects’ work is just drawing lines on paper
and they do not need the wide training
of more executive architects. There is a
case for making it a two-tier profession
with the less well-trained tier to do the
routine work —provided the top tier has
a high standard. But this is a contentious
point, and many architects fear that a
two-tier system would lead to lowered
standards with the second tier doing
first-tier work.
Should students receive more practical
training?
Definitely. Recently graduated archi-
tects do not have enough technical
knowledge or know-how to co-ordinate
design and construction. They view
design primarily as a means of visual
expression. They have no real under-
standing of administrative work. Yet
they expect to be paid about £2OOO a
year. That British report we’ve just
mentioned was very outspoken on this
question. It quoted many British archi-
tects as wanting architects to have joint
training with other professions concerned
with building and to have to work in a
builder’s office or as assistant to the site-
manager or clerk of works. That may be
a good idea.


Bright sunshine and crisp air
. . . a dazzling snow landscape
decorated by crystal - hung
chandelier trees . . . dancing
and parties in the ski chalets
around blazing log fires . . .
Put yourself in Victoria’s snow
picture this year. It’s not
necessary to be a skier to en-
joy the exhilaration and fun
of the snow.
For further information about
these Victorian Holiday Resorts
post this coupon.
CTCTT«IFKI
THE VICTORIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAUX
276 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
32 KING WILLIAM ST., ADELAIDE
28 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
78 ELIZABETH STREET BRISBANE
..is
Please send me detailed information
about ....
NAME
3703 B.
ADDRESS
How is the profession organised?
There are about 3000 architects in
Australia (1000 of them in NSW) and
most are members of the Institute of
Architects. It protects our interests in
all possible ways. For example, it runs
an indemnity insurance scheme to pro-
tect architects against clients. (Claims for
injuries or losses caused by a fault in
design can be fantastically big.) It
handles the awarding of prizes in the
main competitions the Sulman, the
Wilkinson, the Royal Institute of British
Architects Bronze Medal. In the past it
had a reputation for conservatism, but
this is less true now. It used, for ex-
ample, to oppose the idea of architects
forming limited liability companies, but
it doesn’t any more. Each State also has
a Statutory Board to control the roll,
watch ethical standards, see that pseudo-
architects don’t describe themselves as
“architects”. (The name is protected by
law.) There are also “industrial” unions
■—the employers in the Practising Archi-
tects Association, and the employees in
the Association of Architects, Engineers,
Surveyors and Draughtsmen of Austra-
lia. This is a new development, by the
way, as architects have never gone to
Arbitration Courts before. There is still
no award, but it’s a seller’s market for
architectural labor and employees are
well paid.
What do architects earn?
I’m only guessing, but it doesn’t pay
as well as other professions; law, for
example. An employee who doesn’t
carry much responsibility and is really
an over-trained draughtsman will get
around £2OOO. An employee carrying
some responsibility would earn up to
£3OOO. The principals in the smaller
practices and about 50 per cent of
architects are self-employed earn up
to £4000; and principals in the big prac-
tices, employing, say, fifty architects,
would get anything from £lO,OOO to
£15,000 upwards.
What about domestic architects?
There is not much money in domestic
architecture. The minimum fee for
homes, including interiors, is 10 per cent
of the building costs, compared with a
minimum of 6 per cent on ordinary big
buildings. Even so, you can rarely get
more than 10 per cent, and the job often
involves as many problems as a big pro-
ject. If a client is an influential man, this
may sometimes pay off. Some architects
specialise in houses, but usually the suc-
cessful architect will only do homes if
he has enough other work to live on.
Mind you, architect-designed homes in
Australia are among the best in the
world, though there aren’t many and
they’re done, as it were, on the side.
Is it a profession of cut-throat com-
petition?
On the whole, yes. Architects may
not advertise or solicit business, but
you see the competitiveness in firms
secretly taking less than the minimum
fees or finding round-about-ways of ad-
vertising themselves.
How does a young architect get
started?
It varies with the case. Some lucky
ones get ahead on the “old boy” net-
work. Some by slowly building a repu-
tation for service to clients. Others early
on get an artistic reputation. Others
break through by winning one of the
prestige prizes.
You sometimes hear criticisms of
architect-gods who want to re-organise
our whole way of living but seem to
have callow ideas themselves.
Some may be like that. But it is right
that someone should take the initiative in
suggesting better ways of living or work-
ing and the architect is the obvious man
to do it. If his ideas are silly, he won’t
last long. Anyhow Australians are very
receptive to new architectural ideas. Look
at the numbers that visit home exhibi-
tions. There’s no cultural bullying in-
volved.
Who are the pace-setters in modern
architecture in Australia?
You mean the standard modern build-
ing using glass walls, flat roofs, sharp
silhouettes, stilts and so on? Sid Ancher
in Sydney, and Roy Grounds in Mel-
bourne. Later Harry Seidler pushed it
along dramatically.
What is an architect’s daily routine?
It will vary with his position and the
size of his firm, of course. Quite a few
architects will start the day on site
supervision, reach the office at 10 or
10.30 and spend the rest of the day
on drawings, meetings, discussions, cor-
respondence, reference to trade litera-
ture. As he advances he will spend less
time on drawing and more on discussion.
Do you think we should adopt the
American system of depreciation allow-
ances on buildings?
So that you can write a building off
in 20 years, pull it down and build a
new one? Some architects favor it. It
would keep architecture modern. It
would also provide architects with more
work, I suppose; but I don’t think there
is a real need for it. There’s no reason
why a good building shouldn’t stay up
for hundreds of years—unless population
pressure requires taller ones. In any case
builders can’t handle the work they have
now.
What is an ideal client?
A tough, demanding, co-operative one
who gets the best out of the architect.


4B
f*
m A*
n e n *
he
Facts abo
;a>
a"
domesti c
for
m
C
EX
OMEX
SEND FOR
THE FACTS ON
oil
space
heating’
BRIEFLY . . .
Modern oil heating is eminently
suitable for houses, flats, motels
. . . schools and halls . . . shops . . .
swimming pools ... in fact all new
or existing- buildings where general
warmth is required.
• Easy to install
• Extremely efficient ,
• Maintenance-free
• Clean, safe and healthy
For full information . . , All the facts
you are likely to need on Oil Fuels for
domestic and industrial heating- have
been condensed into handy book-form. Types
and specifications of heaters, fuel cost
comparisons, installation methods, etc.,
FREE, and available to Architects and.
Building Trade only.
Mail this coupon to Caltex
Oil (Australia) Pty. Ltd. in
nearest capital city, endorsed
for attention: Heating Oil
Sales Department.
NAME
ADDRESS
CA7 74


Avoid profit-draining delays and header hold-ups with...
LYSAGHT
AMERICAN TYPE
FLAT FLOOR SYSTEM
Lb Lb
Patent Pending No. 55007/59
.
m
:
m
&'T'
i
HI
Sag
ft-::::
■■^■yy.yy.
i | *
wWwl;
SSW
A battery of Lysaght 3,100 bushel Silos installed at Boggabri, N.S.W.,for the bulk storage oj grain during the season and the storage of supplementary
feed during the remainder of the year.
By storing your grain ih Lysaght American-type
flat floor All Purpose Silos immediately after
harvesting, you avoid unexpected delays and
week-end hold-ups. You can keep your harvesting
crews moving while the weather is favourable and
truck at your leisure when the main crush is over.
Use your Lysaght Silos, too, to keep graded and
premium wheat segregated for top market prices.
mm
11
m
1
1
ri
Full-size, “zvalk-in” door (silos from 1,200 bushels
upwards) enable silos to be emptied and cleaned in double-
quick time.
Fully rodent-proof construction.
Easier, faster, cheaper erection.
Vertically rigidised walls and 6-ply horizontal ribs for
added strength.
Robust positive-action bagging outlet, complete with quick
release bag-holder and steel hood.
Auger chute, in bottom bulkhead behind the door.
Centre and side filling holes, complete with hinged lids
and positive fastenings.
OPTIONAL EXTRAS
• Easy-to-install heavy gauge steel floor.
• Steel earth ring.
PRICES
(F.O.R. Newcastle)
Steel
* The 500-bushel Silo is not
equipped with a door. Price
includes steel door.
AUGERS
Highly efficient vertical Grain
Augers designed to centre
fill all Lysaght Silos from 1,200
bushels to 3,700 bushels are
available. Prices: £97, £lO9,
£ll6. (F.O.R. Newcastle.)
Post coupon now for complete details to: g
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited
(City) - -
Please send me full details of the complete range of Lysaght Silos and vertical
Grain Augers.
NAME
NAME OF PROPERTY
ROUTE OR RMB NO
DISTRICT STATE
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Fremantle
Manufactured by: John Lysaght (Australia) Limited, Special Products
Division, Newcastle Works, Newcastle, N.S.W.


w
Lucky traveller returns with the
secret of hair virility.
It used to take a trip abroad
to get Pantene. Now Europe’s
leading hair conditioner—Pantene
—is here in Australia! The discovery
of a great Swiss Laboratory, Pantene
penetrates deeply to the hair roots,
supplying the pro-vitamin essential
for hair vitality. It acts directly on
the scalp, making the hair healthy,
supple and strong.
r n!v
m
■
s
i-
! fj.it'-'ja
.■mm
Pantene, with or without
oil, at leading chemists
and the more exclusive
department stores. 19/0.
Amazing new
PANTENE
Vitamin Hair Tonic
SBP9/63
THE FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
LTD.
FIFTY (50) YEARS
OF SERVICE
19 12 — 19 6 2
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, PUBLIC
RISK, WORKERS' COMPENSATION &
MOTOR VEHICLE
20 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALFRED S. WHITE (Chairman),
D. G. PETTIGREW (Managing Director),
E. G. CONEN, T. K. MAGNEY,
A. G. PARKER, DOUGLAS WADLEY,
B. J. LANE (Manager).
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Phone: 27-7401
OVERSEAS
Prince on a Tiger
Laos a 13 years Communist War
From Our Correspondent in Vientiane
The Communist—more specifically,
North Vietnamese —attempt to cap-
ture Laos has been going on for
almost 13 years now. The effort has
been redoubled since 1958-59 when
North Vietnam began its attack on South
Vietnam. Possession of Laos is essen-
tial if this “unification” by aggression is
to succeed. The present trouble in Laos
caused by a drive by the pro-Com-
munist faction of the coalition Govern-
ment to destroy the neutralist faction to
clear the way for a political, possibly
military, showdown with the Right wing
• marks the end of the post-Geneva
lull.
After waiting less than a year (the
coalition was agreed in June, and en-
dorsed at Geneva in August) the North
Vietnamese have returned to the attack
through their Laotian proxies, the Pathet
Lao. Cease-fires may be arranged, tem-
porary truces patched together, and
minor accommodations negotiated but
the fact is that Laos is back in the head-
lines again to stay after its few months
of obscurity behind the facade of inter-
national promises. It would suit the West
and the Russians to maintain in Vien-
tiane what the Americans rashly over-
threw there in 1958 and settled for in
1962 a coalition Government with a
neutral Prime Minister and a policy of
neutrality in international affairs. It
does not suit the North Vietnamese (or
the Chinese). Having got their puppets
into the Government again they seem
determined to capture, Czechoslovakian-
style, the whole country.
The history of the Right wing in Laos
is one of corruption, and of the neutral
group one of naivety. But both can
claim to be genuinely nationalist. The
important thing to remember about the
Pathet Lao is that it is not a nationalist
group when it speaks it speaks
for Hanoi where it was founded, organ-
ised, trained and from where it has
always been controlled and directed.
Hanoi has not even allowed the for-
mation of a Communist Party in Laos,
fearing, perhaps, it might act indepen-
dently and, latterly, come under the in-
fluence of the Soviet Union which has


given every indication that it prefers a
compromise with the West in Laos to a
confrontation.
The Pathet Lao is a Vietnamese-
trained guerrilla army of about 18,000
men. It is the military army of the
Neo Lao Hak Xat (Lao Patriotic Front),
a Left-wing political party of which the
chairman is Prince Souphanouvong and
which Laotian Communists use as a
cover. The NLHX is linked to the Phak
Khon Ngan (Workers’ Party) which is
the embryo Laotian Communist Party
and which, in turn, is controlled by the
Lao Dong [North Vietnamese Workers’
(Communist) Party].
These tongue-twisting names need to
be noted: they are the reality behind
agency reports of “Laotian Left-wingers”.
And further back in the shadows stand
the two little-known men who call the
shots for Hanoi in Laos: Kaysone Pho-
mivan and Nuhak Phoumsavan, both
veteran Communists and both almost
certainly members of the Lao Dong, an
elite for which they’ve worked for a
decade, selling their country down the
river. Kaysone is the more important
of the two and the only Laotian Com-
munist with international standing.
He is No. 2 to Prince Souphanouvong
in the NHLX, political commissar of the
Pathet Lao, and chief liaison man with
Hanoi. Western diplomats state empha-
tically that Kaysone is a far more signi-
ficant figure than the Prince and they
expect that one day, when the Prince
has outlived his usefulness, Kaysone will
replace him. For the moment he is
staying in the background, without a
Cabinet post, commuting to and from
Hanoi, and broadcasting on Radio
Pathet Lao. The second eminence grise,
Nuhak, began life as a truck driver,
made a small fortune in opium running,
and joined the North Vietnamese in
their fight against the French in 1945.
He rose fast from the guerrilla ranks and
in 1954 was a member of the North
Vietnamese delegation to Geneva after
the Dienbienphu victory.
He was Souphanouvong’s chief poli-
tical adviser in the coalition talks at
the Plain of lars “three Princes” meeting
last May-June and is a member of the
Central Committee of the NLHX. There
are signs now that Souphanouvong is
less obedient to these back-room plan-
ners than he was formerly. The Prince
has sometimes been willing to co-operate
with neutralists in the coalition. Hanoi
has no use for them. There are reports
of a rift in the Pathet Lao, of truculence
against Vietnamese orders. But the
Prince is on a tiger, with nowhere to
go if he gets off. Without the Pathet
Lao and the NLHX, both firmly in the
grasp of the Vietnamese and their
loyalist puppets, he is just another
Prince. And in Laos they are in over-
supply.
Land Reform in Asia
1. Resuming one’s natural role as a radical
By DONALD HORNE
Travelling in those South-East
Asian countries where anti-com-
munism is taken for granted one can
resume one’s natural role as a radical.
Issues of agrarian reform that are history
book matters in Australia are still real.
On a recent trip to Taiwan (Formosa)
and the Philippines it was a change to
discuss radical issues with people who
had to find practical solutions to them and
not merely talk. But the occasion is de-
pressing, God knows.
The problems of land reform are
familiar enough. Bad farming methods
don’t produce big enough crops and many
farmers may live in dreadful poverty. The
small tenant farmers form a huge de-
pressed and debilitated class that may
drag most of the country down to a
mere hunt for subsistence. The absentee
landlords tend to be useless status seek-
ers, sitting on their wealth. Industrial in-
vestment misses out. The economy is a
stagnant swamp. As population grows,
people may eat less. The rhetoric of
democracy becomes increasingly mean-
ingless and its practice increasingly cor-
rupt.
Those who live in industrialised
countries tend to see these problems in
terms of speed and bigness, of quickly
turning small holdings into big holdings
and using big farm machinery. But with
farmers of any kind one must use slower
and gentler methods. Just to put up reck-
less plans can result in the Soviet kind
of absurdity in which, in spite of all the
hardship and fuss, per capita agricultural
production is only now beginning to rise
above 1913 standards. And with farmers
of the South-East Asian kind mere big-
ness could do more harm than good;
chemicals and intensive farming in small
holdings are needed more than engineer-
ing products and collectives. There is not
a problem of replacing labour but of us-
ing it.
To get farmers to go to the trouble
and expense of growing bigger crops
there must be something in it for the
farmers. If, as tenant farmers, they have
to pay 50 to 60 per cent of their crop
to their landlords as rent they usually
won’t bother to grow bigger crops. Who
would? Their return on any extra money
or time they spend will be too small and
if they have to borrow money at high
rates there may be a minus return.
For these reasons the beginning of land
reform in South-East Asia although
it is only the beginning must be to
bring down small farmers’ rents, or let
them buy their own land, and to give
them cheap credit. This means control-
ling or expropriating the landlords and
usurers. Of the two countries 1 visited,
Taiwan had done this and the Philippines,
despite a great deal of well-meaning
legislation, had not.
The methods used in Taiwan were
arbitrary. Reform began in the calami-
tous year of 1949 when the defeated
Nationalists began straggling into Taiwan.
The Governor of Taiwan, General Chen
Cheng (now Vice-President of the
Nationalist Government), decided off his
own bat to reduce rents from a prevail-
ing 50-60 per cent to a standard 37.5
per cent. He enforced this decision. The
reforms worked.
Two years later the government began
to sell government-owned land to ten-
ants on easy ten-year terms. Then the
government began expropriating the land-
lords they were limited to seven-
acre holdings subdivided their hold-
ings and sold them to tenants on ten-
year terms. The landlords were bought
out on a basis of 70 per cent land bonds
and 30 per cent stocks in denationalised
industries. Since then they have been en-
couraged to become an investing class
with some success, judging by the ill-
paid government officials in Taipei who
complain of the New Rich.
The expropriated landlords’ opposition
was said to have been very bitter and
may have accounted for much of the
anti-government feeling among the
privileged Taiwanese in the nineteen-
fifties. This opposition was overcome by
methods with which I am not acquainted.
With the growing in strength of a pre-
dominantly Taiwanese Provincial Assem-
bly which has strong advise and consent
powers on all issues except those of
national security the element of arbitrari-
ness in rural reform has now departed.
But one cannot help feeling that it speed-
ed things up and that it may even have
made the whole thing possible.
In the Philippines reform of land ten-
ure unfortunately still remains an election
issue. In 1951 good laws were passed
but they haven’t had the right effect.
Tenants’ rents were supposed to be re-
duced from 50 per cent to 30 per cent
of their crop and they were given the
right to petition for purchase of land-
lords’ holdings. But most landlords are


Staff:
im
T'
E*
m,nb at
Tradition and Quality
Seventy-six years’ experience in building the world's
finest motor vehicles lies behind the timeless elegance
and extraordinary mechanical reliability of today’s
Mercedes-Benz. No other car offers such value in
prestige motoring, nor such sheer driving enjoyment.
MERCEDES-BENZ
K3A192/545
said still to take an illegal 50 per cent —
because they have the local mayors and
police in their pockets. And very few
tenants petition for subdivision; the law
is complicated and tenant farmers don’t
understand it; nor is there a social cli-
mate in which petitions are encouraged.
The whole this-is-how-to-do-it apparatus
that must accompany land reform is mis-
sing.
With this tradition of fairly complete
disaster behind him, President Macapagal
went the whole hog this year when he
put up to Congress a Land Reform Bill
on the Taiwanese pattern—compulsory
purchase on a 70 per cent bonds 30 per
cent stock basis, subdivision and renting
with ultimate sale to tenants. Good luck
to him. So far as I could make out in
Manila the Bill will be frozen out of
Congress this year; most of the senators
I spoke to hadn’t yet read it. Macapagal
will probably campaign on it in the
November Senate and provincial elec-
tions and with such a wonderful election
gimmick he will probably get a Senate
majority. It then remains to be seen if
he uses his presidential control over funds
and appointments to force his supporters
to get the Bill through next year. "
What then? To change tenure does not
in itself pull off the miracle. It is a
necessary but not a sufficient factor, it is
only the beginning of a long manoeuvre.
Here the advantages of Taiwan over
the Philippines are again worth looking
at. For instance, tenure reform without
cheap long-term credit is just legislative
rhetoric. Every farmer needs to borrow
money at workable rates of interest. In
Taiwan, because the farmers’ co-opera-
tives are strong and meaningful, long-
term loans are taken up at low interest.
Credit to farmers has accelerated in the
last 10 years and farmers are learning
how to use it. In the Philippines
where, by and large, the co-operatives
are said to have been inefficient and cor-
rupt too much credit is still in the
hands of local Chinese storekeepers or
the landlords themselves. Farmers pay
up to 50 per cent interest and can be
perpetually in debt. Plenty of forms of
credit have been provided but after
initial success most of them have not
finally worked well. Perhaps the most
successful has been a scheme started by
the Central Bank which has got nearly
200 small Rural Banks going, slowly
turning the usurers into bankers. One of
the greatest enemies of cheap credit is
the tenant-farmer himself. He doesn’t
understand it. It involves a lot of puz-
zling paper work. Too many forms to fill
in. Too impersonal. He prefers to be rook-
ed by the storekeeper. He has to be
taught to use credit.
This comparison brings out what may
be a critical factor in the success of land
reform. After tenure has been fixed up
it looks as if there should be strong
farmers’ co-operatives which arrange not
only credit but protect a farmer's rights,
interest him in growing more, market his
products and most important talk
to him in his own language. Without
this one can chatter away about organisa-
tions and technique without saying much.
This is a common fault of Westerners.
They ignore the great mass of conventions
and techniques that enmesh any rural
community anywhere. A Westerner, or a
Western-educated Easterner, sees fertili-
sers, pesticides, machinery, research and
so forth. But he doesn’t see people. If
one is going to do more than talk, the
problem is to get the people to use the
fertilisers, etc., and that is immensely
more difficult and much slower than
several generations of bureaucrats all over
the world have allowed for.
In Taiwan there was a basically Chinese
society, which possessed social forms in
which co-operatives made sense. From
1895 to 1945 it had been disciplined by
the Japanese, so that it was getting used
to instruction from above. And when the
refugee mainlanders arrived at the end of
the nineteen-forties they included a num-
ber of men who for many years had been
talking reforms they had not had the
chance to do anything about. These three


factors gave land reform in Taiwan a
grass roots common sense. In addition,
in the Kuomintang — almost half of
whose members are Taiwanese — there
is a political outfit that demands service
and leadership from its members. The
Secretary-General of the Kuomintang.
Tang Na-Chain, told me of the Kuomin-
tang working parties that spend days in
villages teaching new methods to farm-
ers. He invited me to go on one but he
warned me that it was hard work. If I
had had time I should have gone. A few
days in that kind of work could be more
illuminating than a few years of statistics.
In the Philippines many of the co-
operatives appear to have been run by
local racketeers or by the landlords them-
selves. One observer has said that far too
many of the rural improvement pro-
grammes have been characterised by
graft, paternalism and political ambition.
President Macapagal’s Bill promises to
fix all this up. It will do so only if an
element of leadership can be introduced
at all levels of the new co-operatives so
that the new class of owner-farmers trust
them and understand what they are talk-
ing about and the co-operatives them-
selves deliver the goods. This radical talk
may be the same as saying that land
reforms will work in the Philippines only
if there is a social revolution. This then
becomes conservative talk: better to
spread it out, an area at a time, and get
results than try the whole lot at once
and make a mess of it.
One argument for pessimism in Manila
seems popular with some Filipino elites:
that the Filipino farmers don't want to
work anyway, they don’t want to “better
themselves”. I have no real grounds for
contesting such a strongly - held local
opinion but I should like to question it.
All over Asia people come up with this
one. Sometimes — perhaps because of
the failure to provide decent living
standards — they urge spiritual values on
the small farmers instead of economic
reform. These people may not realize that
rural communities everywhere resist
progress unless it is put to them in their
own terms. I told a highly sophisticated
Manila economist how in an English
village I tried to persuade some of the
farmers to make more money out of pigs.
All they had to do was to follow Ministry
of Agriculture Pamphlet Number XYZ.
Not being a Kuomintang man I failed
completely. Money was one thing. Ways
of fattening pigs were another. The
economist did not believe me. “Not the
British,” he said. It may not be the fault
of farmers in the Philippines that they are
backward but of those who have the
knowledge but have not seen to it that
the knowledge is passed on.
(To be concluded next iceek)
SPORT
Keeping the Game Clean
Football codes on trial
By DISCUS
A recent sports headline, “Officials
must support umpires all the
way,” appeared in Perth, but
might as easily have been written in any
State. And it is good to see this stated
at the beginning of the football season,
with signs that officials who do support
the umpires and referees who lower the
boom against the “boys-will-be-bashers”
few will earn Press and public praise,
w’herever it happens.
It certainly happens. Two weekends
ago, in Brisbane, this did:
“Early in the second half Veivers was
lectured by referee Henry Albert . . .
after a scuffle with Barry Muir . . . who
was lying on the ground during the
lecture.
“A few minutes later Veivers, follow-
ing another heavy tackle, was in a
punching scuffle with four Wests for-
wards.”
That was in Rugby
League first grade,
and it may have
arisen from tactics
of playing the man,
which it is up to the
referee to stop
Otherwise you can’t
blame the played
man for getting
angry.
In Melbourne the same weekend,
Murray Weideman’s wrestling experi-
ence did not prevent him getting flat-
tened. He had been throwing his weight
around, and in one pack he was clob-
bered. And in Adelaide, “West cut a
lumbering Norwood side open in a
game which finished displaying more
spite than football ability.” Three
players were reported for punching.
Except in Melbourne, all of the codes
are on trial with the public, and finally
the crowds will go where the football is
“brighter”, faster, more open and tac-
tical, and not just a series of blind
charges and stoushes.
Officials know this. But entrenched
officials are experts at turning the blind
eye. Their electors should force them to
support umpires and referees to the hilt,
by penalising the bashers where it hurts
— and in first grade that’s the pocket.
One point which Austin Robertson has
made in Perth should be generally con-
sidered. If professionals are debarred
from payment while suspended, they
should also be paid when out, injured.
This is not done in all codes in all States,
and it is a fairness which would make
discipline easier to accept.
Players with the temperament of
spoilers can be made to play football by
the simple rule of doubling their sus-
pension with each incident, and no
excuses taken. So far there have been
few “incidents” in Sydney first grade
Rugby League since the judicial com-
mittee cracked down during the pre-
season games.
Sydney is one of the two or three cities
where Soccer could harm the entrenched
code.
★ ★ ★
In boxing, Stadiums Ltd is on trial
too, and not only because rival promo-
ters offered the Gattellari-Lee fight.
After the Cowburn-Collins shocker in
Sydney, a brawl in which both fighters
proved only that
they were over the
hill, Stadiums re-
matched them in
Brisbane within
weeks, and 3000
people saw another
wild brawl, with
slugger Collins be-
ing beaten silly,
it was Festival
Hall’s biggest crowd in years. Cowburn
knocked Collins down five times before
getting the verdict in round 11.
Why do they have such matches?
The old answer, a shortage of boxers,
and spectacles of this kind will not in-
crease the number of young aspirants.
It takes good, colorful, money-earning
fighters to do that, and more display for
the amateurs.
Stadiums Ltd gives a little in Mel-
bourne and not much elsewhere. And it
apparently wielded a big stick when the
Gattellari-Lee promoters tried to pad
their bill with amateurs from Melbourne,
where Stadiums pads its Friday night
bills with them, and lets them hold
Saturday nights of their own.
The firm also rematches Wally Taylor,
featherweight, with Aldo Pravisani, light-
weight, and matches Graham Dicker,
lightweight, with Bobby Liddle, welter.
These out-of-division fights are crowd
pleasers but they are also blind alleys,
in no way advancing the fighters en-
gaged.


ccmooqpowww
m
■ m
. - - RIGHT
AT YOUR
FINGERTIPS
WITH
(cxz/u&o&cC
SPECIAL KEYING SYSTEMS
GMK
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which operates that lock only and
no other, but the locks are divided into two or more groups. Each group
is subject to its own Master-Key which opens all locks in that group, but
no other group.
However, all locks are also subject to a Grand Master-Key wh.ch opens
all locks in all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike groups may also be Included
in G.M.K. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM
YOU NEED CARRY ONLY
ONE KEY INSTEAD OF
HUNDREDS!
REPLACING INSECURITY
AN6 CONFUSION WITH
*MAXIMUM SECURITY,
MAXIMUM
CONVENIENCE!
In industry and commerce today a Lockwood MK System is an essential
pre-requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade
and Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part
of the building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are
held on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries
enabling quick replacement of lost keys or damaged locks "true to code", and
allowing absolute control of additions or extensions to the system.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss
Master-Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty.
Limited at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention.
£s uz/u&o&cC
Manufactured in Australia by
OGDEN INDUSTRIES PTY. LIMITED
Brisbane 7-3047 • Sydney LM 3191, LM 3186 • Canberra 4-4098
Adelaide W 2153 • Perth 23-2214 • Hobart 3-3141 • Melbourne 569-0611
The same applies to that recent
strange event in Hong Kong, where Mar-
garet Smith and other women tennis
players met and defeated local junior
males. Who agreed to this circus and
with what notion?
The women’s tennis game is not re-
motely comparable to the men’s world
standard, and the fact that Hong Kong’s
millions could not produce a boy capable
of matching an Australian girl will
hardly advance the game there. Nor will
it do anything for Miss Smith.
If the private tour she forced on the
LTAA is to include circus exhibitions,
the council should disapprove clearly and
loudly. Otherwise, gentlemen, you’ll
have the girls returning and wanting to
play Davis Cup for Australia. On pre-
sent form and available talent, they
might be hard to refuse.
The best and no longer available. Rod
Laver, was featured in a little news story
buried in the sports pages recently. You
may have missed it. After losing games
left and right at the start of his pro.
career, in Australia and New Zealand,
Laver has so improved that he is second
man to Ken Rosewall in the present
series in America.
Apparently he is looking good enough
to tempt Gonzales from retirement, if
that’s the word for the times when
Pancho throws away his racket. But
headlines? Even Miss Smith had more
space for her effort in Hong Kong.
★ ★ ★
Soccer continues on its merry, back-
biting way. A NSW-SA match drew 6000
spectators in Adelaide. Subsequently
three players from one Sydney club
forgot to turn up for practice with the
State squad, and another club then
threatened to withdraw its four squad
members from the game against Vic-
toria.
It seemed that the three had preferred
not to risk injury in training for the
interstate game. They wanted to be
whole and hearty for a more important
game against the club which withdrew
its four because the whole thing was
unfair. Or so one club said and the
other denied. Nothing is ever simple in
soccer.
The Rugby League benefits particu-
larly. And to increase the advantage it
already has in lack of dissension, the
League is bringing New Zealand and
South African teams to Australia this
winter, and giving the new South
African League a boost by giving their
team a very healthy percentage of the
gate. That is both commonsense and
sportsmanship.
The face of sport is changing rapidly.
New competitive sports spring out of
the blue to popularity. Some hold it,
some lose their appeal quickly. Squash
boomed a few years ago with new courts
being erected to borrow a phrase
at a rate of knots. The game has pro-
duced world champions from Australia
in the amateurs, but at the same time it
has declined very much in popularly,
while 9- and 10-pin bowling is all the
rage, and the car set follow motor rac-
ing and water skiing. And if interna-
tional competition in Australia is any
criterion, the last three sports are doing
as well as any. Last week-end the water
skiiers held the Pacific section of the
world championships at Surfer’s Para-
dise, as well as the national titles,
Which of the new sports will last, and
which will grow? Perhaps it doesn’t
matter. The significant thing is that Aus-
tralians are taking an interest in a great-
er variety of sports than ever, and many
are no longer followers of one big sport,
but of several, and this may make it
difficult for the traditional sports to
maintain the big gates they need be-
cause they are, in fact, businesses.


m
CP-I
AT CRANE’S... Diversity makes the difference!
At Crane’s, you’ll find us
widely experienced in the main
non-ferrous metals —aluminium,
copper, brass.
Because we serve such a wide
range of manufacturing needs,
our men have developed tech-
niques in production and quality
control to solve all the problems
you are likely to meet in the
end use of these metals.
At Crane’s, we are multi-
metal minded . . . prepared to
advise you without bias or
prejudice.
CRANE
GROUP
ALUMINIUM • BRASS • COPPER


FORUM
Out of Tune
The case for the contemporary composer
By K. W. JAMIESON
USTRALIA is a relatively young country and it would seem natural
here to expect a bias towards the experimental. If this exists in some
arts it does not in music. All through our musical environment is a sense
of unreality. The Australian Broadcasting Commission has shown itself
to be particularly short-sighted in its attitude to the modern composer.
It is well known that few modern
works, let alone significant contemporary
works, are heard in their programmes.
I can remember no 12-note works on
orchestral programmes (despite the fact
that most major composers use this tech-
nique), no late works of the Viennese
School or of Stravinsky, no major work
of North or South American, European,
Japanese, Scandinavian, or latest genera-
tion English composers. Which covers
the significant contemporary musical
world, the shibboleth of music from
Russia being beyond serious con-
sideration.
I believe in Australia we have created
our own shibboleth of those within “the
tradition” as sanctioned by those who
organise. Undoubtedly, Hill, Hughes,
Douglas, Sutherland, are technically pro-
ficient and have produced some fine
work, but indicative of the short-sighted
attitude of the ABC is the precedence
their minor work has over the new work
of new Australian composers.
This is not entirely the fault of the
ABC. The absence of good new works
is the result of so few composers being
turned out from our conservatoriums.
Frequently, teaching methods are out-
dated. In Sydney, scholarship seems to
be eschewed. The harmony course is
still 19th century. The way to rectify
this and teach a subject such as this is
to have something analogous to Juillard,
where a subject, “Literature and Materials
of Music”, with its stress on contempor-
ary Music, is taught by composers analys-
ing actual works and guiding musicians
to compose.
A musician cannot be considered a
true artist unless he is aware of creative
process—structure and function, and this
does not come simply by a study of tradi-
tional harmony, nor in a rather dubious
attempt at analysis in connection with a
history course.
The director of a conservatorium
should be in close contact with his teach-
ing staff. One has the impression he is
concerned with little else but his diploma
students, and not concerned enough to
give even them more than a superficial
background of contemporary music. I
believe there are greater composers than
Strauss, yet there seems to be little ack-
nowledgment of the worth of deeper
music contained in the styles of the 20th
century, scarcely even acknowledgment
of its existence.
The lack of enthusiasm for 20th-cen-
tury music at the Conservatoriums is re-
grettably evident in the scant attention
paid to it by the students - would it
not be reasonable to expect perform-
ances of contemporary music from
them? To have this one must have teach-
ers who are able to impart the sense of
style to the works. These must be people
of experience, and far more than com-
petent, especially for chamber music
classes.
What a wonderful opportunity there
is for composers’ workshops among the
performing students! Of course, the al-
most negligible amount of contemporary
music in the library does little to foster
enthusiasm for it.
Another result of the standard and
type of musical education is seen by
looking at the music teacher being pro-
duced by the special music course at the
Sydney Teachers’ College in conjunction
with the Conservatorium. Now that Dr
Wyndham’s scheme for producing the
well-balanced, cultured scholar has been
implemented, how impressive is the op-
portunity to make music vital and mean-
ingful. There is no restriction on the
music teacher if he wishes to be adven-
turous, yet the curriculum within the
school will continue to be based exclu-
sively on programme music, “popular
masterworks” and English folk song, so
long as the teacher has his 19th-century
“sensibility”.
The artist is the person who is ulti-
mately responsible for the music placed
before audiences. With a change in the
ABC attitude and a raising of standards
and broad-mindedness of the conserva-
toriums, the attitude of the music clubs
and music societies will change, and the
musician will not be forced to perform
the pot-pourri of short, undisturbing in-
significances far too often required of
them.
What of incentive? The ABC has a
particular obligation to the composer as
it is the main disseminator of music and
possesses the only orchestras capable
of performing complex scores. If the best
work produced is not good enough to
perform publicly, at least the composer
should be given a chance to discuss it
with the conductor and others in re-
hearsal. A more liberal attitude must be
taken to experiment. Scores submitted
should be examined by a panel repre-
senting a divergence of opinion ready to
extend to adventurousness. This is
easier said than done, for public servants
are very liable to settle into a rut. With
the artist there is the patterning, which
comes through repeated commissions,
and the obligation of fulfilling a duty
according to specification not neces-
sarily bad, but removing the real desire
to create.
The values of the ABC are suspect.
It refused to broadcast the first per-
formance in the country of “Pierrot
Lunaire” of Schoenberg on the grounds
that it was dated this one of the most
important and seminal works of this
century. Yet they performed that same
year the Walton-Sitweil “Facade,” surely
a dated and unimportant work, albeit
performed with the excellence of the
other.
The opening granted a musician
seems to be often not based on continued
achievement but on past glories. There
are examples of composers and per-
formers whose present work is much
inferior to earlier work, yet they occupy
a place better filled by a younger, more
capable person. A comment visit'ng
violinist Isaac Stern made was that he
was sorry to see so many old faces among
the orchestral musicians.
There is the case of the musician who
wished to perform on radio a work by
a young Sydney composer, but because
the work was unpublished and unre-
viewed the chance was denied her. This
would not be unjust were it not for the
tawdry work heard often.
We can learn much from overseas
examples of co-operation among musi-
cians. For example serious music is pub-
lished in Holland through Donemus, in
Sweden (Society of Swedish Composers)
and Denmark (Det Danske Selskab). I
feel that something similar could well
be done here by APRA and the Musi-
cians Union. APRA apparently have


made a beginning to cataloguing Aus-
tralian composers. This work, if ever
completed and made available, will be
excellent. Through these bodies the
musician could see his work published.
He can hardly rely on the commercial
publishing unenterprise of the music-
houses combine of Palings, Nicholsons,
Allens, etc.
It has surprised me that business has
not interested itself in music. We find
huge cash prizes thrown away on art,
that might have given several artists a
chance for commission or provided a
scholarship for an artist. I wonder that
the emergence of amateur and semi-
professional orchestras and the crying
need for music publication has not pro-
duced a Fromm music foundation or
some similar organisation such as one
finds in America. We must give values
to the composer and musician in our
own country. Why give a commission to
an expatriate Malcolm Williamson for
a concerto to be played by Entremont
when we have several more serious com-
posers here who have had overseas ex-
perience and who should be given the
first opportunities? I mean people such as
Trumble, Sculthorpe, and Meale who
won a Ford Foundation Scholarship.
Sculthorpe and Meale have both had
works accepted for overseas contempor-
ary music festivals. Yet we continue to
revere Benjamin, Grainger, Peggy Glan-
ville-Hicks and others because they were
born in Australia, notwithstanding the
fact that they have been accepted by
their adopted countries.
May I conclude with this quotation
from Aaron Copland, which we must
bear in mind:
“The man who lives in the creative
life in today’s world is, in spite of him-
self, a symbolic figure. Wherever he
may be or whatever he may say, he is
the embodiment of the free man. He
must feel free in order to function
creatively, for only in so far as he func-
tions as he pleases will he create a sig-
nificant work. He must have the right
to protest or even to revile his own time
if he sees fit to do so, as well as the
possibility of sounding its praises. Above
all, he must never give up the right to
be wrong for the creator must forever be
instinctive and spontaneous in his im-
pulses, which means that he may learn
as much from his miscalculations as
from his successful achievements.”
The future is great if we have
foresight.
The Collapse of Education
We pay for it one way or another
By JOHN PATERSON
JZV terms of income per head Australia is about the fifth most prosperous
country in the world. In 1958 (the most recent year for which there
are reliable estimates available) there were at least thirteen advanced
countries who spent proportionately more of their Gross National Product
on education than did Australia. They included Italy, France, Holland,
Sweden, USSR and America. We are spending very little now, and no
attempt has been made to estimate the effort which would be necessary to
bring us abreast of more advanced countries.
Tt is generally agreed that the largest
acceptable size for a primary class is
between thirty and thirty-five children.
All States had some classes of over
forty and in some cases over half the
primary classes were this size. In Vic-
toria in 1961 a survey carried out by
the Victorian Teachers Union revealed
that only one-fifth of primary classes
had less than thirty-five in them and
that 56 per cent of classe were of forty
and over.
It is especially difficult to justify
inadequate facilities in the primary
schools because it is easy to predict the
number of children who will be enrolled
in them with almost complete accuracy
at least five years in advance. This
means that departmental planners have
HTHIS is a condensation of the
A report, issued last week by the
Students’ Representative Council of
Melbourne University, on the crisis
in the educational system the
poor teaching, overcrowded schools,
staff shortages, outdated apprentice-
ship training resulting from Aus-
tralia’s low level of taxation and
inadequate investment in education.
five years to prepare the necessary
teachers and buildings to cater for them.
In Victorian High Schools almost 80
p.c. of classes were of thirty or over
and more than 40 p.c. of secondary
classes were over forty. In other words
two-fifths of pupils enrolled in State
secondary schools were in classes which
were at least twice as big as what should
be regarded as the maximum permis-
sible size.
There can be no doubt that the' ques-
tion can be answered with an emphatic
negative: There are certainly not enough
teachers. But are the teachers already
available good enough?
Teachers who are not qualified for
permanent appointment are being em-
ployed on a ‘temporary’ basis in all
States. It is difficult to obtain figures on
how many of these temporary teachers
could obtain permanent status if they
wished. The reports of the Ministers for
Education are conspicuously silent on
the matter, and some give no figures on
temporary staff at all. In South Austra-
lia 15 p.c. of secondary staff were tem-
porary in 1960. In Victoria 34 p.c. of
the teaching staff were unqualified for
permanent appointment. Of these 34
per cent a recent survey by the Vic-
torian Secondary Teachers’ Association
has shown that about one-sixth had
degrees but no teacher training, just
over one-third had some university sub-
jects and just under one-half of them
had no qualification other than those
which they gained at secondary school.
These figures would be much larger if
teachers of domestic science and com-
mercial subjects were included.
It is alarming that at a time when
there is a booming demand for more
and better trained minds we have people
teaching in the schools who in some
cases are only one lesson ahead of the
students in their care.
We are on firm ground when answer-
ing the first two questions with a strong
negative. The question whether the
schools are doing what is expected of
them is a more complicated one, because
it brings up the question of whether
the assumptions underlying secondary
education are adequate.
In most States a decision is made at
eleven or twelve as to whether to enter
a Junior Technical school or course of
study, or whether to proceed with a
basic general secondary type of curri-
culum. This decision is usually binding.
Those who mistakenly enter a technical
course very rarely find their way back to
a High School or through to a univer-
sity. Those who go into non-technical
secondary education split into an ‘aca-
demic’ stream which can take them
through to a university if they are lucky,
and into ‘home-science’ and commercial
courses. By the age of fourteen there is
little choice left to the student as far as
the type of further education open to
him is concerned. Many students enter
courses demanding less than their ability
because they lack adequate guidance at
this time.
The early secondary years are gener-
ally the worst provided as far as
qualified teachers are concerned. It


' '
mi-,. \
\d
1
EVERYTHING GOES
AMSETT
WEIGHT
■XPRESS
GETS THERE ON TIKE
W% MEM V scheduled services to all capital cities. Co-ordinated
EJ EEE Em E road, rail, sea and air transportation.
For further particulars phone:
Melbourne 68 0541 • Sydney 670533 • Adelaide 45 5337 • Canberra 46005
Brisbane 47 1481 • Perth 24 4926 • Tasmania—Devonport 2 2659
ABOI4
would be possible to increase the num-
ber of scientists and mathematicians if
good teachers of these subjects were
provided in the junior secondary forms.
In fact the shortage of suitable teachers
forces Education Departments to place
the few there are in the senior forms
and many potential ‘science’ students
turn to other disciplines before they
meet a teacher capable of nurturing
their initial interest.
Poor teaching at an early stage pro-
vides a discouraging experience and a
poor basis upon which to base future
progress. Theie are many reasons why
people leave school, but many of them
are such that they could be overcome
if sufficient encouragement to remain
in full-time education was given at this
stage.
The more able students often battle
through the early years of secondary
school despite the obstacles placed in
their path. At a higher level they strike
trouble because they have never learned
the essential basic material which they
are assumed to know. Coaching col-
leges do a roaring trade by offering to
patch up the wreckage, but it is the
responsibility of the schools to see either
that such remedial teaching is not
required or to do it themselves if it is.
It is unacceptable that parents should
have to pay for a business organization
to do what is unquestionably the job of
the State.
For Australia as a whole 34 per cent
of pupils left school before their fif-
teenth birthday, and 68 per cent left
before their sixteenth birthday in 1959-
60 according to a report of the Austra-
lian Council of Educational Research.
By their seventeenth birthday there were
only 14 p.c. of the age group left. In
1958 there were at least eleven countries
including France, Sweden, Holland,
USSR and America, which made a
better showing as far as school enrol-
ments of people in the age group be-
tween 15 and 19 than we did,
and all these had ambitious pro-
grammes under way to improve their
standard. It is apparent that there is a
serious wastage of talent occurring in
the schools, and it is in the schools we
must look for means to stop the waste
of human resources.
There is especially heavy ‘drop out’
from the commercial and home science
courses in the year following the com-
pulsory minimum leaving age. This is
sixteen in Tasmania, fifteen in New
South Wales and fourteen in the other
States. It is probable that many children
who enter these non-academic courses
are capable of more rigorous prepara-
tion. There doesn’t seem to be much
wastage amongst the top two or three
p.c. of students. It is amongst the
capable but not outstanding that the
greatest loss, in economic and human
terms, is occurring.
According to the Murray Commission
about 15 per cent of the Australian po-
pulation have sufficient natural ability to
obtain a university degree, estimated on
the basis that this proportion have an
IQ in excess of the necessary 115. A
New South Wales study has indicated
that at least one-third of those capable of
completing a university course do not
even complete their secondary education.
One of the 17,614 children who entered
the Victorian State High Schools in the
first form in 1955 only 2,431 or 14 per
cent of them remained to enter the
matriculation year in 1960. Many of
these would not have been capable of
completing a university degree, and the
majority of them did not even attempt
to do so. Of those who go on to the
university over a third fail, so that
overall less than a third of those poten-
tially capable of doing so ever graduate.
A similar position was revealed in
Queensland where, out of the top 15
p.c. in the scholarship exam, only 40 p.c.
finished their secondary education.
The smaller country schools are a
major source of loss. Country children
only have one-sixth the chance which
their urban counterparts have of getting
to a university. Small schools with small
senior classes are unable to provide the
specialist teachers who are necessary for
advanced work. Boarding schools are
expensive, but they may be the only
means of giving promising country chil-
dren an equal chance, so that serious
consideration should be given to the pos-
sibility of State boarding schools for
those who cannot afford to go away to
private schools.
Higher education through the tech-
nical colleges and the universities pays
very well in return for the funds lavished
on it by the community.
But many firms are unable to attract
sufficient university graduates and those
who can are often unable to employ
them in the most efficient way because
they have insufficient ‘sub-professional’
staff. As a general rule each professional
engineer or scientist should be supported
by five or six ‘technicians’—people with
trade training and specialist skills of
less than professional standing.
apprenticeship system developed in
A mediaeval times and in many respects
has remained unchanged to this day.
With small variations apprentices are in-
dentured for five years to learn a trade
by the most primitive hit-and-miss
methods. It takes five years to train an
engineer or doctor. Some of the large
firms which run their own apprentice
training schools get better results in
eighteen months or two years than does
the haphazard five-year training of those
apprentices who are less fortunate in
their choice of employer.
The time has come for a comprehen-
sive and expert revaluation of the role
which apprenticeship is expected to play.
At the moment it is failing to provide
the number of trained technicians re-
quired and it is failing to give the most
suitable type of training for people who
can expect the nature of their jobs to
change radically over the fifty years of
their expected working life.


Even after a cursory examination it is
apparent that there are two basic prob-
lems. The first is that of insufficient
numbers. It appears that there are far
more boys seeking apprenticeship than
there are firms willing to take them on.
The reason for this seems to be that em-
ployers feel that they do not get their
money’s worth out of apprentices w'ho,
by the time they are able to do a full
tradesman’s job in their fourth and fifth
year, are still taking one day off each
week for training and so are in fact far
more expensive to employ than skilled
labour at award rates. Many feel that
the time spent on training apprentices is
wasted when they stand some chance of
taking fully trained people from other
firms. This view may be a rational one
for individual firms if they ignore long-
term considerations, but it is very serious
from the point of view of the whole
community when many firms take this
short sighted approach.
Lack of uniform standards
other problem is that there is not
A an even standard of quality am-
ongst those who have done their five
years. With the exception of the lic-
ensed tradesmen such as plumbers and
electricians, trainees do not have to
submit to any test of technical profici-
ency to become qualified. It is only a
matter of serving the required time.
This is the basic of another deficiency
of Australian technical education a
lack of standards of skill which are uni-
form from State to State.
In the years to come many traditional
trades will follow those of the coopers
and the masons and become obsolete. It
is essential that instead of acquiring
narrow skills apprentices should be given
a broad general background so that in-
stead of learning a specific number of
operations they discover how to learn
new tasks - they are taught ‘flexibility’.
This implies a longer period of general
education to start with.
After a longer period of general full-
time education a shorter and more care-
ful training is likely to be far more effec-
tive than the present five years. Block
release, by which the apprentice receives
several months of full-time training each
year yields far better results than a day
or half a day each week. There is no
reason why there should not be a system
of scholarships, perhaps jointly financed
by industry and government to take the
financial load off the individual em-
ployer at the times when he is receiving
nothing in return for the wages he is
paying.
Many firms whose operations are too
specialized to be able to give an intro-
duction to a broad range of processes
would be able to pul! their weight if they
co-operated with firms specializing in
other types of jobs, jointly to train a
common pool of boys.
At the present time there are too many
barriers in the way of the lad who begins
an appranticeship and is discovered to
have ability which would permit him to
gain professional qualifications through
full-time training in a Technical College
or university. Increased financial provi-
sion for such people would remove a
serious barrier to equality of opportunity.
present indications there will be
at least 110,000 people enrolled in
the universities by 1970, if the univer-
sities can accommodate them. The
emphasis is on the if because to cater
for the number of qualified matriculants
who wish to enter a university it will be
necessary to provide two new universi-
ties, each of 8,000 students every three
years, and at the moment there is no
sign that this will be done.
The bigger universities are already
forced to put quotas on entry to many
courses while they have massive build-
ing programmes under way to provide
adequate facilities for those whom they
can cram in. Taxing its facilities to the
limit, Sydney University can only ac-
commodate 12,000 students but it is
preparing to take 16,000 in the next few
years. Melbourne University is already
desperately overtaxed with 12,000 and
in 1962 had to exclude over 650 stu-
dents who had passed their Matriculation
Exam.
Unless they have been particularly
lucky in their school or their teachers,
most first-year students are ill-prepared
for the transition from the closely super-
vised school environment to the large
and impersonal university. About one-
third of those who enter Australian uni-
versities never graduate and while some
failures are certainly due to lack of
ability it seems certain that an important
contributing factor is the inadequate
teaching facilities which are provided.
The staff/student ratios in the well
established universities vary between
nine and thirteen students per staff
member. Comparable British universi-
ties have around seven and to improve
staff numbers even to British standards
would mean that university staff would
have to be increased by about 60 p.c.
overall. The universities are financed on
far too modest a scale to permit much
improvement on the present standard.
In recent years about one-third of
university staff recruitments have been
from overseas, principally from the
United Kingdom. The UK is now in-
volved in a rapid development of its own
universities, and a large expansion of its
undergraduate population, and Austra-
lian universities are finding it increasing-
ly difficult to meet their own staffing
needs in competition with those overseas.
One of the characteristic features of
Australian universities has been the small
proportion of their student populations
who do honours and higher degrees. This
is becoming more serious since these are
the graduates who take up university
teaching, and if they are in short supply
while the recruitment from other sources
fails, then the position will become in-
creasingly difficult.
If there are enough good graduates
produced to meet the teaching needs of
the universities then it is essential that
university'salaries be increased so they
can be persuaded to do so The view
held by at least one member of the
Australian Universities Commission that
higher salaries would attract ‘the wrong
sort’ of people are made nonsense by
the higher salaries available in industry
to many types of graduates.
The universities cost the taxpayer
about £470 per year for every enrolled
student. It would probably not cost a
great deal more to make it possible for
more than six out of every ten students
to graduate.
Total expenditure on the universities
from all sources rose from £10.4 million
in 1955 to £22.7 million in 1960, and
the share of this which was borne by the
Commonwealth rose from a quarter to
one-third in the same period. The Com-
monwealth contribution is made on the
basis of detailed advice received from
the Australian Universities Commission
(AUC).
By overseas standards our universities
are run on a shoestring, and it is not to
be wondered that despite the most
valiant efforts university administrations
are unable to meet the demands made
upon them by the students and staff on
one side and industry and government
on the other. We have pointed out the
wastage of talent going on in the schools.
When this is added to the failure of
university students who could succeed
under more favourable conditions, and
the school-leavers who qualify to enter
the universities but are excluded for lack
of space and staff we have a frightening
picture of social irresponsibility or at
least short-sightedness on the part of
those who are in a position to do some-
thing about it.
Australians own more cars and TV
sets per head of population than people
in any country other than the United
States and Canada. Contrary to popular
belief we pay a smaller part of our in-
come in taxes than America, Britain or
any of the countries of Western Europe
other than Spain and Portugal. We stand
in danger of becoming a relatively back-
ward people. The effects of ‘economizing’
on education are less immediately ob-
vious than this, but in the long run they
are equally striking. Education is similar
to sewerage in that we will pay for it
one way or the other.


LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
THE KNATCHBULL MS
Sir,
Your reviewer, M. H. Ellis, casts
doubts upon the authenticity of the John
Knatchbull manuscript (Bulletin,
13/4/63). As I am one of the people
mentioned in the acknowledgements in
the book, I was greatly concerned in
case your reviewer might perchance be
right, and I had been misled.
I have examined the original manu-
script “alleged”, as Mr Ellis puts it, to
have been written by Knatchbull in the
condemned cell while under sentence of
death. I have compared it with other
documents undoubtedly written by
Knatchbull, viz: the letter written by
Knatchbull to the High Sheriff of New
South Wales from the Phoenix hulk on
9th September, 1832, the original of
which is number 32/6805 in the Archives
Office of New South Wales (Colonial
Secretary’s Inward Letters) and a photo-
stat copy of which appear as plates XII
and XIII following page 134 of the
book and the petition by Knatchbull to
Governor Gipps from Hyde Park Bar-
racks dated 9th May, 1839, the original
of which is numbered 39/5560 in the
Archives Office of New South Wales
(Colonial Secretary’s Inward Letters) and
bears an endorsement by Thomas Ryan,
Chief Clerk in the office of the Principal
Superintendent of Convicts and an en-
dorsement in the handwriting of the Gov-
ernor and initialled by him. This docu-
ment is reproduced in type in pages 225
and 226 of the book.
Having examined these documents,
and having compared them with the
original manuscript written in the con-
demned cell, there can be no shadow of
doubt that they were all written by the
same hand. It is a great pity that Mr
Ellis did not take the trouble to examine
the original documents and compare
them before expressing his views.
Your reviewer claims that he (Knatch-
bull) “appears to have written in two
different handwritings (one certainly his
own)”. Even a cursory examination of
the original manuscript would have re-
vealed to him that the handwriting is the
same throughout, though the instrument
used, or the ink, may have varied
variation which might reasonably be
expected in such a lengthy document
compiled over a period of some weeks.
I have also considered the article
which appeared in the “True Sun” on
28th February, 1844 (this is referred to
but not quoted in detail by Dr. Roderick
on page 5 of the book). This article
states that facts in it were extracted from
documents written by Knatchbull in gaol
and which the reporter was allowed to
copy through the kindness of Mr Keck
(the governor of the gaol). It then pro-
ceeds to set out almost verbatim many of
the facts which appear on pages 75 and
76 of the book. I am satisfied that the re-
porter who wrote this article for the
“True Sun” had perused at least that
part of the original manuscript which ap-
pears on these pages. There is also the
evidence of the “Australian” of 15th
February, 1844 (referred to on page 5
of the book) that Knatchbull wrote a
narrative of his life which he finished on
the morning of his execution.
Mr Ellis seems suspicious because Dr
Roderick does not disclose where the
manuscript came from. The source, from
whence it came to Dr Roderick, is known
to me but the person concerned asked
that his name should not be made public,
and there seems to be no valid reason
why his wishes should not be respected,
especially if the purpose in disclosing it
were to meet the baseless charges by a
book reviewer. Suffice it to say that the
person concerned is of impeccable re-
pute, is well skilled in historical matters,
and fills a position of high responsibility
in the community, and would under no
circumstances lend himself to the publi-
cation of a document purporting to be
authentic unless he himself believed it to
be so.
Mr Ellis’s allegations are without
foundation, and I challenge him to pro-
duce any evidence which will cast any
doubt on the authenticity of the Knatch-
bull manuscript, and I ask you to pub-
lish this letter.
R. J. M. NEWTON
Sydney (NSW).
“HONEST TO GOD”
Sir,
Without any academic qualification
beyond the fact that I speak as one of
those “religious people” the handful
of pig-headed fanatics left in this day
and age I felt compelled to write this
letter after reading the article “Honest
to God” by Dr Robinson (30/3/63).
I am no theologian; I am not yet
twenty-one;, yet I could not read this
article without marvelling, that of all
people, a bishop could have written it.
The need for church unity is made even
more evident, when it is seen that a
member of a Protestant sect, no, an of-
ficial, can do away with the evidence of
the very basis of his creed the Bible —
and yet cling to the title proclaiming him
one of its believers. For if one is to
believe the Bible, such an article as this
is anathema. One cannot read the Gos-
pels, the Pauline epistles and yet deny
their evidence, their infallible claim of
God’s existence as a supernatural being,
the author of life, the means of our
existence.
Why must we change God in order to
meet the shortcomings of the twentieth-
century man? Dr Robinson apparently
would have us believe that the Deity falls
short, cannot measure up to the stand-
ard of modern man’s knowledge, that
the image of God held since the begin-
ning of the world is not enough for this
age.
We have done so well this century too,
killing millions before the century is half
over, discovering how to destroy the
world at the press of a button, while
half the world is enslaved, and half the
world starves. Now man, faced with his
secularism and materialism, “reasons”
that the blame must be with God, as it
cannot be with himself, that God is not
doing his job properly, therefore “let us
make him to our image and likeness.”
O well done, citizen of today!
KATHLEEN FORSTER
Ashburton (Vic.).
EARLY AUSTRALIAN ART
Sir,
Congratulations on The Bulletin
portfolio, “Early Australian Painting”,
and the article “Australia’s Colonial
Painters” which accompanied it
(6/4/ 63). As a great-great-grandson of
John Glover (1767-1849) and a visitor to
Patterdale and Deddington and all the
galleries with Glover paintings and
sketch-books some two years ago, I was
particularly struck with the reproduction
of Glover’s most unusual work, “Mills
Plains, Tasmania” and intrigued to find
that it had been included in the collec-
tion to go to the Tate Gallery and sub-
sequently to Ottawa.
“Antipodean Vision” (reviewed in The
Bulletin, 19/1/63) carries a charming
reproduction of “Glover’s House and
Garden”, and despite your reviewer’s
criticism this book should add its quota
to the inevitable controversy and splendid
discussion which The Bulletin is help-
ing along.
A. ALLAN SHEARER
Wellington ( NZ ).
“THE LAST STRAW"
Sir,
Your latest short story (“The Bar-
abran Girls”, April 20) is the prover-
bial last straw. I can haud ma whisht
nae langer. Some time ago you discon-
tinued your regular short story feature,
somewhat arrogantly announcing that
you were prepared to wait until you had
something worth printing. Since then, we
have been treated to a sick satire on the
clergy, a portrait of a very ugly Aus-
tralian, and an essay in furtive adoles-
cence. The sacred cows left unspared,
and the tabus left unbroken, have no
doubt merely been overlooked.
It appears that The Bulletin has dis-
covered the Angry Young Men. To me,
they are merely grimy urchins blowing
furtive smoke-rings. Must we continue
to hear from these graduates in graffiti?
Stanley Drake
Mount Pritchard (NSW).


The Dying Culture
The Aborigines New Look at an Old People
By a Special Correspondent
Sometimes somebody will find an Old
Master among the junk which
Grandfather left in the garage. Most
of his garnered treasures will scarcely
pay for their cartage to the auctioneers,
but perhaps among them will be a
hitherto unconsidered trifle, worth many
times its weight in gold.
For Australian scholars, our aborigi-
nes may turn out to be rather like that.
For so long we have regarded them as
nuisances and jokes, that we are going to
find it hard to adjust ourselves to the
idea that, from the point of view of
world scholarship, they are likely to be
not merely of great interest, but to be
the thing in Australia which is most
deserving of attention. Our Stone Age
people may really be the Head of the
Corner.
They are nearly unique. There are
peoples in the world who are less con-
tacted by civilisation, but probably there
are none who live at the same material
level and of whose life we can stiil get a
record. The native Australian lived com-
pletely in the Stone Age. He had no
metal. He had no pottery. His imple-
ments were of stone, wood, bone or
shell. He made only the simplest body
covering from hair, skins, grass and bark.
He had no permanent building and only
the crudest of temporary shelters.
Much more important, he had domes-
ticated no animal except possibly the
dingo, and more important still he culti-
vated no crops. He lived within strict
tribal boundaries, but within such boun-
daries he was a nomad, existing on hunt-
ing and the gathering of wild plants.
Nowhere else, it would seem, can this
state of affairs be observed today. The
Bushmen of South Africa would, per-
haps, come nearest, but materially they
are many rungs up the ladder. The South
Americans, so far as we know, are all to
some degree agriculturists, as also are
the New Guinea peoples. The Esquimos
are hunters and the Arabs nomads, but
they are no more true primitives than
the whale is a true fish. No, the Austra-
lian aborigines are nearly unique—and
the word “nearly” in this sentence is
probably wrong.
So what?
Science is always interested in making
a record of anything unique; but this
specimen is of more than the usual inter-
est. It is the archetype specimen the
only surviving archetype specimen —of
man himself. Not so long ago, most
scientists would have regarded the
emergence of man as a comparatively
recent event, distant a few tens of thous-
ands of years. The discovery of hominid
remains which can be dated back at least
1,000,000 years throws a new light on
this story. It would seem overwhelmingly
probable that man existed as a gregarious
hunter for at least 50,000 generations;
and that for most of us there are no
more than 500 generations between that
state of affairs and today. That is to
say that all human stocks have lived at
least 100 generations under the circum-
stances of the Australian aborigines for
every generation that they have existed
in any subsequent state.
It would be unthinkable that the 50,000
generations should not have left their
genetic mark upon our sociological make-
up; especially since the emergence of other
institutions and outlooks could only take
place as a development from those earlier
social mechanisms. It does not, of course,
follow of necessity that the ancestors of
the remainder of mankind lived accord-
ing to the precise pattern of the Aus-
tralian aborigines (and indeed there is
no one such precise pattern, but rather
an astonishing diversity in detail as be-
tween different groups of Australian
aborigines) but an appreciation of the
underlying rationale of these ways of life
may help us to recover the knowledge
of our own past and obtain some under-
standing of the basic forces at work in
our own society.
Ouch study might show us what forms
of organisation are “permitted” (to
borrow a physicist's metaphor) and thus
expose for us the massive substructure
upon which all subsequent forms of
human organisation have been erected;
and it might enable us to make some
judgment as to the viability of various
forms. Whatever validity there may be
in psycho-analysis must be drawn from
this spring. It is, of course, quite wrong to
be dogmatic as to what (if any) con-
clusions will follow from our study; all
that can be said is that here is material
which, prima facie, is of the highest
practical importance; it isevanescent
material, and our business is to record
as much of it as possible before it
vanishes, finally and irretrievably.
The speed with which the field of
study is vanishing is indeed very great.
Twenty years ago there were still large
groups of aborigines, living uncontacted
and under tribal conditions. Today there
are still a few hundred (perhaps even a
few thousand: the numbers depend upon
the rigour of the definition) who live a
tribal life, but almost all of these have
varying degrees of contact with civilisa-
tion. This process of acculturation can-
not be held back, and indeed few would
wish to do so. Mining, missions, cattle
and welfare are all pushing forward at
an increasing pace. The aeroplane and
the four-wheel drive vehicle make ac-
celerated inroads into the old inaccessi-
bility; while the diminution of the old
pool of tribal behaviour renders the re-
mainder shallower and increasingly
subject to evaporation.
Among the aborigines, there are still
plenty of old men who remember the
old tribal ways, but for the most part
they have not long to live; their memories
progressively fail and, as they fail, are
naturally supplemented by imagination,
so that the source material tends to be-
come corrupt as the source recedes into
the past. Sacred objects are lost or de-
liberately destroyed as the rituals which
involved them decay; social sites are for-
gotten; the dreamtime itself tends, bit by
bit, to fade; and thus in hopelessness and
resignation the custodians of the tradi-
tions lie down at the end of the dream-
ing. The material culture is vanishing
even more rapidly. The aborigine, even
in his tribal state, quickly avails him-
self of new materials for his artifacts —
broken glass and nails for his weapon
tips, red paint for his tribal decorations.
Then, naturally enough, new hunting
weapons, new foods and materials for
clothes replace the older techniques; cor-
rugated iron provides a shelter; and the
Landrover becomes an instrument for
walkabout. The old ways do not, for the
most part, die hard.
Already well over 90 p.c. of the field
which existed so profusely a short century
ago has vanished, even though the re-
mainder is probably enough to provide
some conspectus of the rationale of the
pattern. But this remainder is rapidly
eroding; it has a half-life of not more than
10 years—i.e., in the available field in 10
years time will be less than half of the
available field today, and in 20 years
time it will be less than a quarter. Speed
is of the essence of the study.
Much is gone, but much remains.


ABORIGINAL ART AND RITUAL
Allen David Esq.
An old Pitjantjara tribesman still leads the traditional life of
the central Australian deserts.
A BULLETIN PORTFOLIO, MAY 4, 1963
“Making up” for a dance ceremony on Cape York, North Queensland. Note Papuan
influence in headdress and pandanus skirt.
E. L. Cranstone Esq.


Bark painting of dead ernu from North Arnhem Land. Note “X-Ray” features.
Institute of Aboriginal Studies
These mouthless cave painting figures from Northern Kimberleys are known as
Wandjinas - heroes of the past. They must be annually repainted to bring rain.
G. Donkin Esq.


Spirit people in a Western Arnhem Land cave painting. An elaborate
legend is commemorated in this peculiar group.
W. Brindle Esq.
Miss Dorothy Bennett
Painting a grave
post, Melville
Island, Northern
Territory.
E. L. Cranstone Esq.
Cape York cere-
monial carvings of
ancestral figures.


An unknown artist painted these “Mimis” - female figures - with great vigor
and fluidity of movement in an Arnhem Land cave.
W. Brindle Esq.
Institute of Aboriginal Studies
Another “X-Ray”
painting from Arn-
hem Land - dingo
attacking a kanga-
roo.


One of the lessons to be learned is the
extreme fragmentation of primitive life.
(New Guinea also evidences this.) Tribal
units are small and relatively self-con-
tained. Some languages are spread over
fairly wide areas, but others, apparently,
were never spoken by more than a few
hundred people. Even today there are
several hundred distinct aboriginal lan-
guages current in Australia some of
them, it is true, only imperfectly remem-
bered by only one or two surviving
speakers. Of these languages, not one
(even Arunta) is as yet adequately re-
corded and analysed. Many of them are
already so far gone that only an outline
is available for the record. But there
are certainly over a hundred tongues
which could be taken in toto —at least
the material could now be collected while
fluent speakers still survive: the com-
plete analysis may have to wait till later.
The task of the recording linguist is still
one calling for a high degree of technical
skill, but the availability of tape recorders
now makes speed in the field possible in
a sense which would have been out of
the question only a few years ago.
Some of these languages (e.g., in the
vicinity of Armidale or the Cairns hin-
terland) appear to be anomalous and lit-
tle related to their neighbours; others fall
into linguistic family groups; but all exhib-
it features of vocabulary and syntax which
are worth preserving. Depth analysis may
reveal their relationships and thus help us
to untangle the history of the tribes that
used them, and a conspectus of them
may contribute to the general science
of comparative linguistics and throw
light upon the parallel development of
human language and human thought.
Perhaps the Australian aborigine is
chiefly interesting because his society is
not agricultural or tied to the cultiva-
tion of the soil. Most of the religious
customs and superstitions of mankind,
in so far as we have any record of them,
seem more or less bound up with the
transition from the hunting-nomad
economy to the fixed-cultivation econ-
omy. It is true that in European, African
and Asian folklore we find anomalies
which seem to belong to an older sub-
stratum; they stick up like geological
peaks of an old landscape buried in
newer sediments. In Australia the whole
stratum is, as it were, still exposed the
more recent sediments of agricultural
settlement have never been laid down in
this corner of the world.
JJeke, then, we can still see what our
own past must have been like. The
aboriginal order is not a simple order.
Social relationships are complex and
minutely determined; the line of author-
ity, on which the life of the tribe so
much depends, is firmly held, though
the institution of kingship has not yet
been reached and there are only vague
precursors of ritual sacrifice. Ordeal and
initiation, however, are already well
established in the aboriginal society whose
natural development has been so rudely
broken by the advent of white civilisa-
tion. Cognate fields open up in art, music,
and dancing an astonishing and pro-
fuse complexity beneath the simple-
seeming surface. Even the material cul-
ture is fascinating European scholars
waste tomes in speculating how an old
stone implement might have been fash-
ioned or used by the men of long ago,
while here, in Australia, they might still
find men making its fellow and using it
to live by.
The Australian environment is, of
course, very different from the European,
and the inhabitants may have been gene-
tically different; but they faced parallel
problems and their experiences were
probably in a sense analogous. At any
rate there is a prima facie case crying
out for more research in the short
few years in which research with a liv-
ing Stone Age people will still be pos-
sible. And what of the problems of Aus-
tralian pre-history? Here we know little
indeed. How long have the aborigines
been here? Did they displace a still
earlier people? Are they of one stock
or distinct stocks? Where did they come
from? To what other races are they re-
lated? There would be no unanimity
among scholars in any of these matters.
new technique of carbon-dating
has recently enabled us to assign an
absolute date to certain remains, and it
would seem clear that man has been in
Australia for at least 12,000 years. But
how much longer? Are there any really
ancient remains? So far we do not know
of any, but that does not prove that they
are not there. The anatomist may give us
some clues; others may come from the
study of blood serum.
Man, it would seem, was in Australia
at the time the Ice Sheets were melting
in the Northern Hemisphere. (Were they
melting or accumulating at this time in
the Antarctic? We simply do not yet
know. ) And it is certain that the climate
of Australia has suffered major
changes during man’s occupancy. The
drifting sands of the Simpson Desert
have uncovered massive ritual sites, and
man lived alongside the last of the Giant
Marsupials whose remains occur in the
old lake-beds of the Centre Perhaps the
story of man in Australia may lead to a
better appreciation of the long-term
trends in our climate. Some parts of
Australia are rich in archaeological sites.
In Kuring-gai Chase alone there are over
1,000 carvings, paintings, occupied caves
and midden-mounds. Some of these are
comparatively recent, but others are
probably -as old as Stonehenge per-
haps far older. Until more work has been
done, we cannot tell.
It would, of course, be wrong to write
off the work that has been done already
on the various aspects of the life of our
aborigines. Many scholars have perform-
ed miracles with inadequate resources.
But it is the word “inadequate” which
should be emphasised. The immensity of
the task has not been understood; its
importance has not been appreciated; its
urgency has been ignored not by the
pitifully few scholars in the field, but by
those whose support is necessary if
scholars are to be maintained in the field.
rp W o recent moves may help to cure this
state of affairs. The United Nations,
through UNESCO, has established a
centre for Urgent Anthropological Work,
with headquarters in Vienna, and (of
even greater practical consequence) the
Commonwealth Government has set up
an Australian Institute of Aboriginal
Studies. This Australian institute had its
genesis in a conference of the experts
in aboriginal research called at Canberra
in May, 1961, under Government
auspices. As a result, the Government
established an Interim Committee,
charged with the dual task of recom-
mending a permanent structure for the
Institute and of sponsoring, in the mean-
time, projects of an urgent nature, for
which purpose it has been allotted the
necessary funds.
The Committee is broadly based. Its
chairman is Professor Trendall, the
Master of University House in Canberra,
and himself a classical scholar and
archaeologist of world standing. It in-
cludes the heads of the Departments of
Anthropology at Canberra, Sydney,
Melbourne and Perth Universities as well
as the Emeritus Professor from Sydney.
It has among its members a Professor of
History and Fine Arts from Melbourne,
of Anatomy from Adelaide, of Micro-
biology from Canberra, and of Psychol-
ogy from Brisbane. Museums and Lin-
guistics are represented. The Prime
Minister’s Department and the Treasury
send members, and a prominent Sydney
businessman has been included. The pro-
ject has received support from both sides
of the Federal House, and both Govern-
ment and Opposition sides are represen-
ted in the Interim Committee.
The Institute endeavours so far as pos-
sible to work through existing bodies,
and has sponsored projects carried out
through universities and similar insti-
tutions. It is also sending out its own
research workers into the field, and act-
ing as a collating centre for all work in
conjunction with aboriginal studies. Later
cn, it will doubtless establish its Library
and Museum of Aboriginal Art.


But this will be within the province of
the Permanent Committee. The Interim
Committee has completed its draft con-
stitution for the permanent body, and the
whole matter is now before Cabinet for
consideration. It is hoped that Cabinet
will be in a position to finalise the neces-
sary legislation and place it before
Parliament later this year.
Meanwhile the urgent work of record
proceeds. There is so little time left.
There is another aspect. The Institute
is designed to be an academic body, not
a policy-making body. Nevertheless the
studies made at the Institute will increase
our knowledge and thus enable our policy
in regard to our aborigines to be im-
proved. Proper policy requires a base of
sound knowledge. Men have seldom been
notably successful in assisting their primi-
tive brothers to adjust themselves to new
ways of life. This failure is not by any
means confined to the white races. For
example, the heaviest pressure on the
South African Bushmen came not from
the Boers but from the black Bantus;
and the Hill tribes of India and South-
East Asia have been relegated to misery
not by Europeans but by Asians.
The white races, however, have had at
least their share in the process; and we
in Australia have certainly not succeeded
over-well in helping our own aborigines
on their swift journey from the Stone
Age to modern times. It would be wrong
to ascribe our failure simply to lack of
goodwill indeed, some of the more
disastrous ventures have been sponsored
by men motivated by nothing else. Our
ignorance of the nature of the problem
has always been an ingredient though
not, of course, the only ingredient in the
complex affair.
Our first settlers tended to simplify
the picture to draw it in stark black
and white. The aborigines, they thought,
were shallow people, without any laws
or morals, without any language beyond
baby-talk, living the uninhibited life of
Rousseau's Noble Savage. The policy they
framed for them on these presuppositions
was scarcely likely to work. Today we
know that all of their presuppositions
were not only erroneous but perilously
near the direct opposite of the truth.
We are coming to realise that a success-
ful aboriginal policy demands a much
greater basic knowledge of what aborigi-
nal society was really like. Gradually we
are hammering out a new policy. But we
do need more knowledge.
The Australian Institute of Aboriginal
Studies is not, and should not be, a body
concerned with policy. But it may well
turn out to be a body which the policy-
makers can usefully employ in their
complex task of assimilating our oldest
Australians into the world which even
we find disconcertingly new.
REVIEWS
MUSIC
Promise of Better Things
THhe start of the Melbourne music
A season has been a particularly
attractive one, and one from which we
are given promise of even better things
during the year. The Commission an-
nounces that Josef Krips, who has had
the best playing on record from the Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra, will pro-
gramme the E Major Symphony of
Bruckner in Melbourne. It will be worth
wading through a sea of intervening
Brahms to hear this performance.
We had for a start a very clear and
unassuming performance of the Violin
Concerto of Alban Berg, which is, they
say, the great justification for the whole
school of 12-tone music. This was a
performance which sparked off a number
of earnest Press correspondents, each of
them wondering how best we Anti-
podeans can prepare ourselves for the
impending breakthrough of modern
music. “Wondering” is here used with
some euphemism, for in fact all the
letter-writers were sure that seminars,
discussions and other tutorial penances,
if gone through in due season, would
produce the suffering docility demanded
by something less compromising and dis-
arming than the Berg Concerto. Having
been on the giving end of a few such, I
am less sanguine about this; and besides,
the point seems to be that the Berg work
is now more than a generation old, and
will soon overcome our defences
through the sheer effluxion of time.
For my part, I turned with great
enjoyment to the first Musica Viva
recital for the year one of the extra
Sunday series, in which three local
musicians gave a most efficient and en-
joyable performance of a few works
which did not need any preliminary
seminars. Easily the most pleasant of
these was the Mozart trio-divertimento
for strings, the six movements of which
should not disguise the fact that it
belongs with the more substantial of
Mozart’s chamber-music. Spiritually re-
freshing, physically delightful, this music
came as a welcome counter-weight to a
Prokofiev sonata for two violins. It was
difficult to hear this out ift patience.
Without the resource of the orchestra, or
the figuration of the piano, Prokofiev’s
invention is shown up by this thin music
as sparse, unimaginative and repetitive.
KENNETH HINCE
Bankelsinger
John Olday ballad recital. Sydney.
/Cartoonist, painter and self-styled
“bankelsinger” John Olday, at
present living in Sydney, has started
giving recitals of folk-type ballads at his
houseboat studio. (The bankelsinger,
according to Mr Olday, was an itinerant
singer who carried news and views about
mediaeval Germany.) Most of the
ballads are written and composed by Mr
Olday, some are his settings of other
peoples’ words and a handful are at
least in part traditional. Mr Olday
accompanies himself, mostly on the
guitar.
The words of Mr Olday’s songs vary
in quality. Most of them deal with their
topics in too sophisticated a way to count
as good folk-type verse, but are too
crude in technique to count as good
anything else. A few items achieved
genuine poignancy notably the air-
raid-shelter song.
The tunes are also of variable quality.
None is utterly bad, but none is very
distinguished either. A number of them
are used more than once, and one of
the worst melodies seemed to be used
as the basis for a dozen or so songs.
Mr Olday has several conceptions of
what his function is. He claims to be
a bankelsinger, which he manifestly isn’t.
He also seems to regard himself as
continuing the European folk - song
tradition and justified his own activity
by conducting a general defence of folk-
song. Furthermore, he seems to see his
songs as a vehicle for social protest,
and in a prologue he warned his
listeners that he was about to smash a
few icons. The iconoclasm turned out
to be pretty mild, and, incidentally, the
dullest part of the evening.
JOHN SMALL


ART
Playing Safe
Young Painters’ Exhibition. Farmer’s
Blaxland Gallery. Sydney.
YlJith two reasonably attractive prizes,
each of £lOO, young painters of
30 or under responded rather vigorousfy
in the exhibition organised by the Con-
temporary Art Society. In some meas-
ure this show is roughly similar to the
young contemporaries’ exhibition in Lon-
don, which manages to bring before the
public eye young hopefuls either still
within, or emancipated from, the art
schools of Great Britain. However, with
such a vast panorama of exhibitions from
the Continent or the US, London influ-
ences are far more varied, as well as, of
course, there being many more exhibit-
ors to choose from. Contact with actual
paintings makes an enormous difference,
as we can see from the many pictures in
this show which have the magazine look.
Some of them contrive to pack a postage
stamp experience into a format several
thousand times bigger. Young painters
for better or worse follow the fashion
and in doing so seem to play safe, much
safer than their English equivalents. One
would like to see more failures in the
attempt to wrestle with half formed orig-
inal ideas, rather than the polite doffing
of the cap to established names, here and
abroad. Things intended to shock just
raise a yawn after a while.
Lanceley’s baubled assemblage en-
titled “Princess Excelsior, Magnificent”
hardly achieves the distinction of being
a painting. It’s good for a laugh the
point is reasonably well made, but then
what? The pop art fad has been going
for years in the US and Europe.
With only a handful of exponents it
looks as though we are really lagging!
Where are the 12-foot lips, the targets,
gargantuan comic cuts with bags, the
beer cans, the sofa-sized doughnuts?
There is talent if not, as one has been
so persistently told, the new new. Dick
Watkins’ neoplastic sign called “Mos-
cow” injects a welcome whip of van
Doesburg order among the shrieks, while
Rose Raft, Kitching, Cornu, Herman,
Pauliukonis, Adler, Gazzard, Firth-
Smith and Meskenas, to name a few,
investigate a fair range of abstract or
near abstract styles with not a little skill.
JOHN HENSHAW
Representing The West
Painters from the West. Museum of
Modern Art. Melbourne.
Co many people, including Western
Australians, speak of the West as
a cultural desert that one does not expect
great things from a group exhibition of
14 Western Australian painters. Per-
haps for that very reason, the exhibition
at the Museum of Modern Art is an
acceptable surprise. It appears to be
representative, apart from the unavoid-
able exclusion of Guy Grey-Smith, and
even if the number of exhibitors
stretches somewhat the limits of real
talent, the overall quality is sound.
Robert Juniper and Brian McKay, of
course, are well known and deserve to
be. Juniper in particular is unmistakably
individual and coherent. McKay, like
the others, tends to lapse into painting
exercises, but at his best achieves a rich,
strong balance of forms and color which
gives life and depth to his painting. Both
Juniper and McKay evoke a marked
feeling for harsh, hot, eroded landscape.
It is not an especially localised feeling,
however, and they fit easily into the
general development of contemporary
painting here, rather than stand apart as
regional painters.
No painter here, in fact, is in any way
regional or distinguishable from his
confreres throughout the country. There
is no dominating figure and there are no
disciples. All have cast about widely for
their models and although there is very
little originality, by and large intelligent
use has been made of a wide range of
contemporary styles. Apparently the
West provides a healthy, but not very
intense, environment for artists, even to
the point where some paint not for the
sake of painting but the sake of being
painters.
BILL HANNAN
THEATRE
Ah! L’Amour...
Look After Lulu. Noel Coward, adap-
ted from Georges Feydeau. Reper-
tory Society. Canberra.
TI/Im. Coward and Feydeau are a
■*■’**■ powerful combination in bedroom
farce. The plot of this hilarious con-
fection has all the neatness of the French
model; yet the dialogue tosses off the
double-entendres with a grace not easy
to manage in translation.
Canberra Rep’s production under Alan
Harvey was high-spirited and sometimes
wildly funny, though there were moments
when English actors and French assump-
tions did not blend quite happily. The
image which came to mind was not the
appropriate sparkle of champagne so
much as a football scrum. The basic
premise of this sort of farce is that
French bedrooms are as public and as
thickly populated as Wynyard at rush-
hour; and that most of the characters
are so under-employed that they have
little else to do but drop in at in-
opportune moments (to the bedrooms).
All this needs swift playing and unfail-
ing lightness of touch to keep it from


ever coming down to earth. After a
slow start, this performance became air-
borne.
Robert Hunter as the sillier of Lulu’s
leading men was endearingly dumb: his
attempt to do mental arithmetic in the
air was high comic mime, and the highest
spot of the evening. Lesley Gotto as
Lulu, the hub of all the activity, was
better in social encounters than amorous
ones; her attractions were rather too
much of the nice outdoor girl. All the
foreigners were beautifully over-played
within the convention that foreigners
are funny and have funny names and
accents and little ways. One Dutchman
and two Russians (old style: Prince and
General) dropped in on Lulu to add to
the circus.
If the dressing was undistinguished,
the undressing deserves the highest
praise. Such copious night-shirts, such
frilly knickers, those prevailing ankle-
length woollies, those princely red sus-
penders. . . .
HOPE HEWITT
An Oscar For Wilde
The Importance of Being Earnest.
Oscar Wilde. Theatre Players. Can-
berra.
MHilde’s play needs no praise from
” me. The Theatre Players’ produc-
tion under Joyce Goodes realised bril-
liantly the possibilities of this exacting
piece. From their first exchange, Alger-
non (Paul Kelly) and Jack (Edward
Knox) established a world of graceful
artificiality. The main parts were
beautifully spoken with just that hint of
English speech mannerisms which this
type of verbal comedy needs, yet with
no suspicion of music-hall Oxford accent.
The costumes were as gay and witty as
the text. Those of the young men
deserve special praise, for they were as
expertly tailored as the rest of the pro-
duction, the sort of clothes gilded youths
should wear (but alas! in amateur theatre,
all too often do not).
Jill Sorenson’s Cecily was a delight
to watch and hear: she managed perfectly
that artless rustic simplicity which is just
as much art as everything else in the
play. Joyce Goodes made Lady Bracknell
a formidable old battleaxe and a richly
humorous part. But it was her own
creation. No shadow of Edith Evans
and that wonderful LP record fell across
the performance. Rosaleen Smyth as
Gwendolen was elegant and sophisti-
cated, though she could have been more
imposing. She is, after all, Lady Brack-
nell’s daughter (“all girls grow like their
mothers: that’s their tragedy”).
One of the wonderful things about
this play is that every new production
brings out some gem previously un-
noticed. This time it was the crack about
“choosing between this world, the next
world and Australia.” I remembered how
my lonely colonial guffaw rang out in
the London performance, where ap-
parently these alternatives were not re-
markable. In Canberra everyone hailed
the speech with joy and it seemed much
funnier for being shared.
HOPE HEWITT
TELEVISION
A Judy With Punch
If it’s safe to predict anything, I foresee
some quick imitations of the sharp
blacks and whites achieved by lighting
and Francesca Crespi’s design in ABC
Television’s new variety programme,
“Four For the Show.” I hope we don’t
hear imitations of the ABC’s variable
audio, which seems to have become a
built-in weakness in its variety shows.
There were a few too many shadows on
the set, including some that did not be-
long to performers, and once a chunk
of camera intruded on the scene.
I grumble only because it distracted
my attention for a moment from the pre-
sence of Miss Judy Banks, who brought
to the small screen the astonishing, old
fashioned notion that a young woman
singer should be happy to be young, and
a woman, and should share her joy in
these facts with the viewers. Miss Banks
has rejected the modern, deadpan school
of vocalising. She smiles, laughs, winks
and crinkles with enough enthusiasm to
make old blood run like new wine. Sings
quite well too.
With occasional lapses, so do the
other members of the “four”, Michael
Cole, Stuart Finch and Shirley Sunners,
with some help from Jim Gussey’s or-
chestra, and the support of the ABC
Dancers, who only once committed the
crime of prancing like fauns with the
hotfoot. Banks, Cole, Finch and Sun-
ners also danced, and sang a variety of
old show tunes.
Judy Banks was visible as the lead in
“Salad Days” on stage for 12 months,
and had been almost overlooked since
then. Her previous television experience
seems to amount to two weeks as an
ABC presentation announcer in Perth,
one other appearance for the ABC, and
a few TV commercials. She uses the
camera lens in a professional way that’s
a pleasure to watch. All talent scouts
except the ABC’s should be censured,
and he is reprimanded for being so dila-
tory.
I wonder how many other Judy Banks
are waiting for a similar break with a
capable producer, while we have to bear
with a succession of expressionless hu-
man tape recorders. This growl does
not include Miss Sunners, who is also
gifted in her own right. The Crespi sets
were very good, and altogether I seem
to have had an enjoyable 30 minutes with
the four and their show. It was a nec-
essary compensation, because some days
earlier I had suffered a similar interval
of something called “Television’s Top
Forty”, with some Brisbane gals and
fellers miming around a half dozen or
short 40 best-selling pop records.
The less said about that experience the
better.
FRANK ROBERTS
FILMS
Inaccessible
The Sky Above, The Mud Below.
Palace. Sydney.
TTocumentaries filmed in inaccessible
places have a definite advantage
over standard travelogues. Audiences
gasp over never - before - seen - and -
probably - never - imagined sights and
wonder how in blazes the cameramen
were brave enough to defy the headhunt-
ers / arctic / sweltering heat / tsetse fly /
secret police, etc.
Why is it then that so few of these
films manage to take advantage of their
flying start? “The Sky Above, the Mud
Below”, filmed on a French expedition
crossing Dutch New Guinea, has some
fascinating material, but usually man-
ages to make the least of it with an inces-
sant and surprisingly uninformative com-
mentary. We are told very little about the
natives who scream across the screen
from beginning to end, mostly no more
than a description of what can be seen
anyway. Also, the conspiratorial
(“What’s around the next bend?”) ra-
ther fey voice is enough to flatten out the
most exciting moments.
Still, most of the visuals are interest-
ing, and it is amazing how the camera-
men obtained them.
BRUCE BERESFORD


THE RED PAGE
The Cosmic Cheshire Cat
God’s last fading smile
By G. STUART WATTS
Honest to God. John A. T. Robinson,
Bishop of Woolwich. S.C.M.
Paperback.
fFms honest, courageous, and attrac-
tively written book has already
stirred up a tempest of controversy by
its revolutionary proposals. I think that
it is not revolutionary enough. The
author is a fine New Testament scholar,
not a philosopher; still, it is a pity not
to have the philosophical arguments
against “supranaturalist” theism pre-
sented. Instead, Dr Robinson contents
himself with an exposure of the anthro-
pomorphism of popular conceptions of
God, and the way in which traditional
theology has encouraged it. He offers as
a replacement for both the technical and
popular views the theories of three Ger-
man theologians who have greatly im-
pressed him Tillich, Bonhoeffer and
Bultmann. Of these, the most meta-
physically minded is Tillich; but it is
sad to witness the good bishop’s un-
critical acceptance of Tillich’s resound-
ing metaphysical ambiguities.
Bishop Robinson describes himself as
a “reluctant revolutionary” who has
“never really doubted the fundamental
truth of the Christian faith,” while con-
stantly questioning its expression. He
disclaims any desire to attack basic
theological doctrines; he honestly believes
that he is presenting those doctrines in
a way which will be of interest and help
to thoughtful people in a scientific age.
(Incidentally, he shares the popular, but
mistaken, view that the main attack on
the Church's traditional supranaturalism
comes from science, and not from philo-
sophy.) He does not see that Tillich has
led him far out of the orbit of the
Christian Faith as understood down the
ages.
Dr Robinson rejects all talk about the
“beyondness” of God, whether crudely
“physical,” spiritual, or metaphysical
(except in phrases like “the beyond that
is within”). He will have nothing to do
with the “space-trip” notion of the
Incarnation (repudiated, it should be said
in all fairness, by every Christian
theologian; yet philosophically, more
respectable than the theologians’ view,
because it tries to keep within spatio-
temporal reality). He commends the
atheist for his rejection of pictures of
God “up there” or “out there,” and so
helping to rid Christianity of a dangerous
idol; he thinks that the Freudian is right
in calling such a deity a projection from
our own minds and in forcing us to con-
sider the possibility of living without that
projection in any form.
“As one who long tried to get the
Anglican Church in Australia to play
its part in ‘out-thinking’ the world, I
have every sympathy with the bishop
in his effort to stir up the Church to
fresh adventures in thought and life.
But, in reading his book, I was con-
stantly haunted by the question, ‘ls
this the God of the Bible, the Creeds,
and the Liturgy?’ If so, then very
many of us never knew it; and, so far
as some of us clergy are concerned,
there doesn’t seem to have been much
point in making the agonising decision
to cease exercising our Orders in the
Church which we loved, because of
serious intellectual difficulties about
orthodox theism and the immortality
of the soul.”
What does the bishop offer as a sub-
stitute for such an idol or projection?
He offers us Tillich’s doctrine of God
as the “infinite and inexhaustible depth
and ground of all being.” If we ask what
this means, Tillich invites us to trans-
late it into phrases like the depths of our
life, the source of our being, our ultimate
concern, that which we take seriously
without reservation. In order to make
this translation, we must forget every-
thing traditional which we have learned
about God, “perhaps even that word
itself.” Indeed, Tillich declares that it
is as atheistic to affirm the existence of
God as to deny it: for what is affirmed
is a Being distinct from the universe,
instead of Being itself, the very Ground
of all being.
An interesting feature of the “new
theology” adopted by Bishop Robinson
is its stress on secularism, rather than
on religion, as ordinarily understood. It
doesn’t regard religion as a special
function Of man’s spiritual life, but as
the dimension of depth in all of life’s
functions. Men may or may not have a
capacity for religious or mystical aware-
ness, just as they may or may not have
a capacity for aesthetic or psychic aware-
ness: in either case it is a question of
natural endowment. But even a pro-
fessed atheist may be religious in this
“new theological” sense, if he possesses
the dimensions of “depth.” Indeed, God
is spoken of as the “depth” of life
itself; and atheists may be open to “the
holy” or “sacred” “in the unfathomable
depths of even the most secular relation-
ship,” the “holy” being the “depth” of
the common. Thus Tillich is prepared
to make religious men of us all.
Bishop Robinson, following Tillich, re-
interprets “God is personal” as “reality
at its very deepest level is personal.” He
holds that “personality is of ultimate
significance in the constitution of the
universe, that in personal relationships
we touch the final meaning of existence
as nowhere else”; and concludes that
“Love is the ground of our being, to
which ultimately we ‘come home’.”
Theological statements, therefore, “are
not a description of the ‘highest Being’
but an analysis of the depths of personal
relationships or, rather, an analysis of
the depths of all experience ‘interpreted
by love’.”
From all this it follows that the func-
tion of worship is to make us more
sensitive to these depths in everyday
experience. In morality, Jesus’ teachings
are not literal injunctions relating to
every situation, nor universal principles
to be applied in all states of affairs. On
questions of marriage and divorce, Jesus
never dictates the choices we have to
make: unconditional love will find its
way in every situation. Nothing is pre-
scribed, except love: “love, and then
what you will, do” (St Augustine).
A wkward questions confront this “new
theology.” Why should “depth” in
everyday experience be termed “God”
and, specifically, be equated with the
Christian God? If the other great world
religions decided to make a similar use
of the secular, there would be an all-
round blunting of theoretical differences,
with the consequent abandonment of
unique claims and distinctively religious
and theological commitments. But surely
questions of intensity in commitment,
concern for issues, integrity in one’s
work, devotion to beauty and to objective
inquiry, responsibility to ways of life,
taking some things seriously without
reservation, etc., are ethical rather than
religious. Why multiply entities or
names beyond necessity?
Again, if “ultimate” questions are
those which deal with origin, destiny,
freedom, causality, etc., then these are


among the traditional questions of
philosophy, which religion “kept alive”
in popular, pictorial form until the
advent of philosophy and the sciences;
and then, for the first time in human
history, such problems were handled in
a critical, theoretical way. In view of
this fact, why designate as “theological”
a statement which “asks ultimate ques-
tions about the meaning of existence”?
Why assume, in any case, a single
meaning of existence when, manifestly,
there are many things and processes,
with many different “meanings”?
Further, how can the use of abstract
terms such as “Being-itself” add any-
thing to talk about concrete beings? Un-
less one is writing poetry, how can it be
shown that “Love” is “the ground of our
being,” or that "personality is of ultimate
significance in the constitution of the
universe”? And why attempt to explain
the many complex, mysterious yet ex-
plicable, things in existence by an
infinitely greater mystery, that of the
inexplicable in itself?
As one who long tried to get the
Anglican Church in Australia to play
its part in “out-thinking” the world, I
have every sympathy with the bishop in
his effort to stir up the Church to fresh
adventures in thought and life. But, in
reading his book, I was constantly
haunted by the question, “Is this the
God of the Bible, the Creeds, and the
Liturgy?” If so, then very many of us
never knew it; and, so far as some of
us clergy are concerned, there doesn’t
seem to have been much point in making
the agonizing decision to cease exercising
our Orders in the Church which we
loved, because of serious intellectual
difficulties about orthodox theism and
the immortality of the soul. Indeed, on
the central thesis of this book, the
collapse of traditional philosophical
theology should have been welcomed as
a stimulus to the acceptance, within the
Church, of secularism, in whose depths,
it seems, we would have found the God
whom we could not find by means of
logical argument.
But the most serious philosophical
argument against the “new theology” is
that, if God is taken logically as “Being-
itself,” the “ultimate Ground of all
being,” all distinctions and differences,
all independent existence, disappear and
the hoary fallacy of a single, featureless
“substance” is exhumed and reinstated.
The “new theology” avoids the dualism
of “supranaturalism” only to fall head-
long into the monism of an impersonal,
undifferentiated Absolute, to which
predicates do not belong, and which
could never give rise to the complexity
which it is supposed to have originated
and to maintain. The old Idealists saw
the issue far more clearly than the “new
theologians” do; for instance, Bradley
said:
If you identify the Absolute with
God, that is not the God of religion.
. . . Short of the Absolute God cannot
rest, and, having reached that goal,
he is lost and religion with him.
On the new theory, even more than
on the traditional doctrine, God is
certainly beginning to resemble the last
fading smile of a cosmic Cheshire cat.
The Insiders
Gunther rides again
By T. H. RIGBY
Inside Russia Today. (New Edition).
John Gunther. Hamish Hamilton.
The New Soviet Society. Final Text of
the Programme of the CPSU, with
Annotations and Introduction by
Herbert Ritvo. New Leader Paper-
back.
T7ulgarization is an important and
’ responsible art in these days of super-
specialization. John Gunther possesses in
high degree the technical and moral
qualities of the first-class vulgarizer: the
alert but simplifying eye and ear, inde-
fatigable curiosity about the surface of
things, a sense of how much precision
and how much generalization the “general
reader” will tolerate, above all an ability
to enrich popular stereotypes from
within, that is to say, to gain an audi-
ence by telling people what they expect
to hear, but to slip in enough qualifica-
tions to bring their picture of things
significantly closer to the complexity of
real life. He is objective without being
“coldly” academic, scrupulous without
being over-scrupulous. Gunther's idea of
applying his encyclopaedic technique to
post-Stalin Russia was a good one, the
results justified the effort, and also justi-
fied publishing a revised edition bringing
the account forward from 1957 to early
1962.
There are a number of good general
books on contemporary Russia written
by specialists Leonhard, Crankshaw
and others. The chief virtue of Inside
Russia Today, apart from its scope, is
that it is written by a non-specialist, who
approaches the country both with a fresh
eye and with the same problem of mak-
ing sense of it as most of his readers. As
for the scope although the USSR lacks
the political variety and complexity so
masterfully sorted out in the other “in-
side” books this is typical Gunther: it
is both a travelogue, taking you from
Leningrad to Samarkand, and an analysis
of Soviet society, area by area: politics,
education, health, the arts (though not
much directly on the economy), all
wrapped up in a potted history of Russia
and plain man’s introduction to Marxism.
Unlike some mass-appeal commodities,
it is the packaging here that is weakest;
here we find not only more errors, but
things that are just silly or in bad taste,
such as the suggestion that Mu as an
anti-semitic Jew, would probably have
been a Nazi had he lived a century later.
Gunther’s sources are books and
articles in English, Soviet transla-
tions, gossip and, of course, his personal
observations and interviews. The general
level of accuracy is high. Of course there
are mistakes. Party congresses are due
every four years, not two (p. 212); you
cannot get anywhere in industrial man-
agement without joining the Party (p.
214); it is quite misleading to say that
“on most topics Krokodil is outspoken,
even daring” (p. 334); the discussion of
higher education is confused by identify-
ing all tertiary institutions with universi-
ties (p. 280 ff.). It would bore you and
give a false impression of the book to list
all the inaccuracies noted. On the whole
the experts have been impressed, even
astounded, at the correctness of the pic-
ture Gunther has managed to present.
The chief defect of this edition of
Inside Russia Today is that much of it is
concerned with yesterday, that is, it de-
scribes the scene in 1956 and 1957 at
the time of Gunther's travels, and sub-
sequent developments are reflected only
in brief factual interpolations in the text
and in footnotes. The result is that some
of the judgments are dated and some of
the factual detail, topical in 1957, is
now irrelevant. This is most noticeable
in the areas of greatest flux, particularly
the supreme leadership and the arts.
Gunther’s picture of relationships within
the leadership is very misleading, as
“collective” rule as he witnessed it has
not existed since 1957. His long passages
on literature concentrate on the era of
Not by Bread Alone and the writers’
“conspiracy of silence”.
Much water has flowed under the
bridge since then, and Gunther gives no
idea of the atmosphere and main events
of the current phase, which began with
the modus vivendi achieved between


BECOME A
FREELANCE WRITER
AND EARN IN YOUR SPARE TIME
Many STOTT students pay for their Course
before completing it. If YOU have a flair for
writing, then Stott's Literary Courses will
develop your talent.
Stott students are taught to write successfully
for both Australian and overseas markets, and
they study under the guidance of instructors who
are themselves successful writers.
There is a constant demand for well-written
stories, articles, pars, radio and TV scripts, etc.r
and the lucrative field of Freelance Writing is
waiting to pay well for good work. Write today
for full particulars of Stott's Literary Courses.
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; 22 Howard Street,
Perth.
' CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
NAME
ADDRESS
AGE
8.863
Party and writers at the Third Congress
of the Union of Soviet Writers in 1959.
If Mr Gunther’s book is concerned
with the present, the new Soviet Com-
munist Party Programme has to do with
the future. Present and future are, how-
ever, linked in the New Leader's paper-
back edition of the programme entitled
The New Soviet Society, through the
medium of a brief introduction and de-
tailed annotations by the late Herbert
Ritvo, of the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology Centre for International
Studies. It would be difficult to finti a
writer better qualified for the task here
performed, and Mr Ritvo s death of a
heart attack last year was a serious loss
to scholarship on the Soviet Union.
rpHE Party programme deals with the
transition of Soviet Society from the
“lower” stage of Communism (“Social-
ism”) to its “higher” stage, a process
which is held to be already under way.
It discusses the international and his-
torical context of this transition, and out-
lines the changes in political structure,
economic production and social attitudes
which it will entail. Mr Ritvo identifies
the elements of traditional Marxism and
of innovation in this blueprint. The
fundamental questions as to what men
should do, or are likely to do, in a
“truly free” Communist society once they
get it are left unanswered, and the
changes are mainly in the direction of
rendering “utopian” concepts more feas-
ible. In relation to “abundance”, it now
appears that you can be well on the
way to full Communism even with con-
sumption levels no better than, and in
important respects (e.g. housing) far in-
ferior to, those prevailing already in the
most developed “capitalist” countries.
Distribution according to “needs’’
(rather than work) is still the aim, but
these needs have to be “reasonable”, and
it is “society” which decides which of our
needs are reasonable. The state in the
sense of the formal institutions and trap-
pings of government is to “wither
away” all right, but the party, which is
the hard core of the state, will remain for
a long, long time, together with a highly
organized economic administration.
Although Ritvo's task is to provide a
critique, he shows admirable balance. On
the ambitious economic goals, for in-
stance, while rightly pointing out utopian
features in some sectors (especially agri-
culture) he comments: “On the basis of
past performance there is every reason to
take this projection into the future
seriously in the heavy industrial sectors
at least, and to resist the temptation to
consider the whole a mirage because of
the impracticability of some of the parts.”
Sometimes he is a bit hard on the USSR
I think, as in his somewhat contradictory
comments on agriculture (pages 135 and
137). But at other times he is too kind,
for instance in his account of election
procedures (p. 111).
This book is invaluable not only for
Mr Ritvo's larger judgments but for his
detailed comments on the current situa-
tion in many areas of Soviet life. These
achieve a high degree of accuracy and
pertinence, and read in conjunction with
the Programme provide a dynamic pic-
ture of the Soviet scene. All sorts of
things come out that one would never
have guessed at from the Programme
formulations: that state pensions and
social benefits do not extend to the farm-
ing population, for instance; that the
ratio of Uzbek, Turkmen, Azerbaidzhani
and other Turkic students to Russians in
higher and specialized secondary educa-
tion has not increased in 30 years (7.3
per cent); that the peasants’ private plots,
with under four per cent of the land,
still produce nearly a third of Soviet
farm products. One should read the
CPSU programme; but one should also
read Mr Ritvo’s “corrective”.
Perry’s Frontier
Australia’s First Frontiers. T. M.
Perry. Melbourne University Press.
60s.
first thought about this useful
book of 163 pages is that it is
“unco’ dear”, which seems to be a
characteristic of most books issued by
Melbourne University Press in conjunc-
tion with the Australian National Uni-
versity.
- This is a pity because it is the kind
of work that research students of early
Australia have been looking for for a
generation. In effect, it sets out the
detail of the terrestrial stage on which
the great drama of pristine civilisation
in Australia began and found its feet,
before it moved on to the second stage
over the borderline in time of Sturt’s
expeditions which discovered the
Darling and explored the Murray, and
Alan Cunningham's discovery of the
Darling Downs.
Dr Perry is an academic, but he is a
somewhat different kind of academic to
the average Australian university histo-
rian who, when he tackles matters of
land, climate, vegetation, pest and
drought, is apt to make himself arrest-
ing only through a naive ignorance of
matters concerned with animals and the
good earth.
The historical period which Dr Perry
covers is that which begins with the
arrival of Phillip and his First Fleet in
an utterly strange land which was not
to see a ploughshare or working bullock
for eight years to come and in which
there was no cultivation or husbandry
whatever until the basic settlement of
the first of the “nineteen counties” had
been achieved on the mainland and most
of Tasmania across Bass Strait. It was in
1826-9 that the true free settlement of
Australia began and that voluntary im-
migrants began to dilute a population,
preponderantly convict in origin, in sub-
stantial volume.
The Nineteen Counties covered an
area which stretched westward from the
Manning River mouth with no towns
worth marking on the map along its
northern and north-western border, and
on the west and south delimited by the
series of pristine outposts Welling-
ton, Cowra, Yass, Canberra, Tharwa,
Ryrie’s Michelago and the still unsettled
Moruya River mouth. It contained spe-
cimens of every kind of novelty in ter-
rain, vegetation, climate, natural ob-
stacle and pests that Australia has to
show and it was within this area that
Australia's basic settlers went to school,


learned about the terrain and its seas-
onal and other habits, its climate and
problems and diseases. It was in this
enclave that they adapted their methods
to native conditions and the trends of
their husbandry and agriculture to de-
mand and market and the economy in
general.
Even in 1828 the whole population
outside the County of Cumberland
omitting Newcastle and other penal
settlements comprised 3280 adults
in the Hunter Valley, 2000-odd in the
Bathurst district and 1546 in Argyle
and St Vincent in the south. These,
representing 21 per cent of the popula-
tion (outside penal stations), already
held over 2,300,000 acres of land,
alienated land which was twelve-fold the
alienated area in the same districts in
1825 showing the lightning rapidity
with which settlement developed until
it hit the lip of the disastrous depression
of which the 1828 drought provided the
opening event.
The nature of settlement was defined
according to region the big man's
sheep frontier in Westmoreland, west of
the Blue Mountains, the small man’s
cattle frontier of the south reaching
down to the Monaro and the Snowy
Ranges, the immigrant small settlers’
frontier in the Hunter Valley, creating
the first distinctive regional social differ-
ences which are still apparent to the
keen observer in 1963.
Dr Perry’s book is itself a sort of
frontier from which future students will
be able to set forth more confidently
than formerly to study and picture the
expansions of Australian settlement and
the formation of the Australian rural
patterns.
M. H. ELLIS
“I can’t do a thing with it.”
A Key to Harney
Brimming Billabongs. W. E. (Bill)
Harney. Robert Hale.
Jt is still hard to realise Bill Harney
is dead; he seemed so indestructible.
He has not yet said his all: two books
of his are still to come from the publish-
ers; and in the meantime comes Brimm-
ing Billabongs. He finished it nearly 18
years ago; it has been out of print for
perhaps 15, and this is the first edition
printed overseas. In content it is different
from any of his other books, yet it is a
key to Harney.
Like Douglas Lockwood's /, the
Aboriginal, it is a first-person story of a
native under the impact of a period of
transition; it is true and unvarnished, not
imagined, not fictionalised; and it is
located, more or less, in the same
country. Harney's protagonist Marmel
is of the Uwadja tribe, from the north-
west corner of Arnhem Land, Lock-
wood's of the Alawa, from the south-east.
But Harney's is a more elemental story
of a more elemental native, from a period
in which the aborigine was less prepared
for transition.
Born about 1883, Marmel knew the
Macassar men, and voyaged with the
trepanging dhows to far countries. He
went pearling, worked on cattle stations,
offended the violent laws of the Euro-
peans and ran away to live a fugitive,
went droving to the desert, worked in tin
mines, and helped his European employ-
ers to defend themselves against his own
fellows, firing the lethal shots his loyalty
to a handout of boots and flour demand-
ed. He lost his wife to the town, his
daughter to an alien race, his son to a
needless disaster in the mines.
Bill Harney, a gentle soul, with a
depth of understanding far beyond the
capacity of most, had bitter things to say
in his lifetime, and never flinched from
saying them; but he never judged, nor
did he ever condemn; he produced the
evidence and let his audience form its
own conclusions. It is a characteristic
of all Harney's work that the white men
involved in his story come in for the
same sympathetic and understanding
treatment; though they may be the in-
stigators of frightful reprisals for mild
offences, and the creators of shocking
living conditions. There were some whose
activities approached genocide; yet in
Harney's work, though this is made clear,
their virtues are upheld as their vices are
flatly exposed. He sets forth too the in-
explicable charity of the aborigine
towards the white; he has an integrity
that nothing can smear. He has also a
wonderful good humor; Harney in print
or in person was a man who caught at
any joy life had to offer, and preserved
it for his fellows. He could be sardonic
too, as witness an introductory note:
On 23 April 1860
Stuart planted a flag on the top of
Central Mount Stuart
and spoke these words:
‘May it be a sign to the natives
that the dawn of
liberty, civilisation, and Christianity
is about to break upon them.’
OLAF RUHEN.
Glubb’s History-Changers
The Great Arab Conquests. John
Bagot Glubb. Hoddcr and Stough-
ton. 525.
Ane night in the year 610 A.D. when
sleeping in a cave on Mount Hira,
Muhammed had a visit from the Arch-
angel Gabriel. “He came to me while
I was asleep, with a coverlet of brocade,
on which was some writing”, Muhammed
subsequently related. He had several
visions after this, each one providing him
with another chapter for the Koran. At
the age of 43 he began publicly to
preach the message that God was One
and idols must be swept away and that
he himself was an envoy from God.
Although four years later he could
muster only 50 converts, Islam as a
soldiers’ creed had been born and within
50 years his followers had burst out of
Arabia to conquer an empire and
change the course of history.
These Arabs were in general rude and
illiterate. Intent on action, they did not
bother to record their own deeds, and it
was not until the Abbasid dynasty,
centred on Baghdad in 750 A.D.. that
historians attempted to reconstruct their
brief past. Secular explanations did not
concern them and it is only in recent
years that the facts of this crucial period
have been documented.
It is to this span of fifty years or so
that Lieutenant-General Glubb had ad-
dressed himself. He is better known as
the professional soldier, very much tied
up with the early fortune of the Kingdom
of Jordan, but since his shameful dis-
missal he has taken to writing up his
memoirs and researches. This account is
no pot-boiler, as the title might suggest,
but a handsome piece of scholarship.
It is also full of good things to be
plundered by the Infidel at his leisure.
DOUGLAS TERRY


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
On Our Selection 1963
BY JOHN GILMORE
TThe man who hasn’t got water under
pressure in his bathroom and
kitchen when he turns on a tap,” the
sunburnt salesman told the ring of big-
hatted sheep-men, “is just livin’ like a
flamin’ blackfeller.” As a line of sales
talk for water filters and pressurisers, it
could have been heard only at an Aus-
tralian Royal Show. Effective, too. Far
more so than the deference and suavity
of the city-trained appliance salesmen at
neighbouring stands. The sunburnt one
had done his time on the road a long
way from the ocean.
Farm income, estimated at £495 mil-
lion for this financial year, is showing a
I rise, after a fall the year before. That
far more of this is being spent on home-
stead living standards is evident from the
quickest look around.
“What’s the house like?” has become a
gauge of a land-owner’s standing as a
farmer and the general efficiency of his
management. There could be no better
evidence that Dad-and-Dave concepts are
as dead as the dodo.
Isolation and lack of 240-volt elec-
tricity are the first things the modern
settler banishes, and easily enough. The
man who as a lad used to open the
gates for his father on a weary, two-day
trip twice a year to a dusty wool, or
beef or wheat “town” now flies to his
capital city in a couple of hours, and
owns a weekend flat at Manly.
Go to a race-meeting at any sizeable
I inland centre, and you are likely to find
30 or 40 private planes parked on the
1 local ’drome. Tax offsets play a part
■ with capitalised plant like planes. You can
; depreciate these at over 30 per cent a
J year for tax purposes, though, unlike cars,
i aircraft do not depreciate much in real
■ 1 Va lue with use.
' Symptomatic of the fact that you
( on t have to live like a “blackfeller” in
| e bush these days if you don’t want to
Is boom in' domestic air-conditioning.
o a few places it is even used to make
'fe more pleasant and more productive
:: stud animals.
Use of air-treatment plants in farm and
station homes has as much potential as
regards health and well-being and con-
venience as refrigeration had in its day,
only about 15 years back. No matter what
hours you work under a frying sun with
the humidity as high as the inside of a
water-bag, you can face up to the same
capers tomorrow if you can enjoy a
comfortable night’s sleep.
Engineering interest now is in use of
cheap solar power for both air-condition-
ing and refrigeration, and whoever cracks
thaF one will make a million overnight.
Similarly hot countries like Israel are
already using it.
Solar water-heating is already wide-
spread, especially in dairying districts,
where a lot of hot water is needed for
production purposes. Solar stills which
work on the same principle are used to
demineralise bore water, too.
The convenience of this will be ap-
preciated by tough-bearded older hands
who have spent lifetimes trying to shave
with underground water heavily impreg-
nated with magnesium salts.
State rural electrification grids have
long tentacles embracing around 90 per
cent of farm homes. Or further out you
can have units that pour 240 volts into
the wiring at the flick of a light-switch.
With this voltage you can run air-con-
ditioners, fans, freezers, stoves (wood-
piles always cut out in the middle of
lamb-marking, mustering or stripping)
and all the kitchen appliances any
woman demands. And the impact of TV,
already considerable in the country, may
be even greater than in the cities.
Although an overall rural income ap-
proaching £5OO million, when split up
among 250,000 holdings employing twice
as many people, would not seem to leave
much money for TV sets and air-con-
ditioners, there is probably a substantial
figure the statisticians haven’t heard
about yet.
Down-the-road cash sales of stock,
grain and other items which might bring
the farmer an odd hundred pounds or
two are usually regarded as a kind of
bonus. These tend to be earmarked for
the new refrigerator, floor-coverings,
flush-toilet, etc.
Finally, for the man who really wants
the best of both worlds, comes the pre-
sent tendency in many districts to live
in town permanently, right next door to
the schools, shops, theatres, doctors,
barbers and swimming-pools as well
as the banks, produce merchants, stores,
agents and machinery dealers —and drive
out to work each day like any city com-
muter.
Gun-happy Farm Pests
With myxomatosis and the poison 1080
making rabbits scarcer than hay-
stacks in Victoria’s farming country, the
problem of trigger-happy young weekend
shooters has been growing rapidly worse
each year.
Genuine shooters are no problem.
They usually ask permission before they
climb through a fence and take off across
the paddocks in search of game.
But “young blooas”, most of them
from the city, don’t worry about any of
the niceties. Usually in bunches of three
or more they pile out of their car, fire a
few dozen shots at anything in sight,
thumb their noses at the farmer if he
dares to show his face, and are gone be-
fore any action can be taken.
In some cases farmers have been
threatened with loaded rifles while at-
tempting to defend their livestock and
property.
The weapon of these small-time gangs
is invariably the .22 calibre rifle.
This is the reason the Victorian
Chamber of Agriculture at its 1963 con-
vention at Colac asked the State Govern-
ment to compulsorily register all .22
rifles. The Government said it would
consider the move if all primary pro-
ducer bodies wanted it.
The Victorian Chief Secretary (Mr
Rylah) seemed a little surprised by the
request. He said he had been under the
impression that the farming community
had opposed the registration of .22 rifles
because they were widely used for ver-
min extermination.
The farming organisations speedily
made it plain to Mr Rylah that they had
changed their minds, and now strongly
sought registration.
So it is now the State Government’s
responsibility to work out a way of en-
suring that the State’s tens of thousands
of .22 rifles are registered!


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Lullaby of Wall Street
Wall Street has recovered completely from the big
break of May, 1962, and, for those anxious people
who asked if the 1929 crash could be repeated, the
New York Stock Exchange has given some sound arguments
against making comparisons with 1929. But it isn’t bold
enough to say it can’t happen again.
In a 60-page research report released at the end of
March, the New York Stock Exchange makes no attempt
to give its own interpretation of the 1962 break. It merely
cites several comments of analysts and financial writers, and
points out that the “goodies” in this juicy melodrama were
their own brave brokers who stepped in and stemmed the
tide.
Brokers (meaning jobbers or broker specialists whose job
is to establish markets for stocks in which they are registered)
accounted for almost a quarter of the total shares traded over
the three-day dive and recovery when 35 million shares
were traded between May 28 and May 31. (May 30 was
a holiday.) The Dow Jones index fell 35 points the first
day (5.7 p.c.) and continued down in the morning of the
second day. It recovered strongly that afternoon and the
following trading day, showing a net gain of 11 points over
the three-day period.
Within that time, however, there were some personal
tragedies and some handsome profits. The Stock Exchange
report, therefore, should be studied by all investors.
HTwo very important points emerge. Setting aside the usual
economic problems of the nation, there were two
vital factors which can be extracted from the Exchange’s
non-commital report: (I) Increased threats of foreign com-
petition which caused outside fears over the dollar; and (2)
unregulated credit.
Outside fears and a drain on gold reserves need no further
comment here except to mention that foreign investors (with
Canadians and Swiss in the lead) accounted for a record 5.5
p.c. of share trading during the three-day upset.
The unregulated credit assumes vital significance when it
is revealed that the officially regulated margin calls (which
at that time required the share buyer to put up 70 p.c. of
their purchase price in cash) accounted for only one million
shares, or 2.5 p.c., of total trading in the three-day period.
These included voluntary selling as well as forced sell-outs
by firms.
By inference, it is suggested that share buyers, unable to
meet the 70 p.c. margin requirements, turned to unregulated
lenders who required only 10 or 20 p.c. cash deposit when
buying shares. The Stock Exchange claims that these un-
regulated loans played a major part in the break and it
named factoring companies, personal loan companies, insur-
ance companies, credit unions and Swiss banks as sources
of unregulated loans.
Stock Exchange firms have been campaigning against these
unregulated loans for a long time. And, since the May
1962 shakeout, the cash deposit for share buying has been
cut from 70 p.c. to 30 p.c.
The messsage seems quite clear. There were too many
people buying shares on credit and they couldn’t afford a
loss. Whatever caused the break (and the Stock Exchange
does not attempt to explain why) the Exchange report says
there was no parallel with the 1929 crash.
TTere’s why. There were 7500 million shares listed on the
Stock Exchange in May compared with fewer than 1000
million in 1929. The 16 million share volume traded on
October 29, 1929, was proportionately much higher. The
average price of shares in 1962 was about half the averagei
price of shares traded in 1929, mainly because of stock splits. |
The 35 point drop in the Dow Jones index on May 28, i
1962, although the second largest in history, represented a;
fall of only 5.7 p.c.
The index was at a much lower level in 1929 and the
two-day drop in October, 1929, represented a fall of 25
p.c. at a time when margin requirements for share buying
were only 10 to 20 p.c. And, finally, as a clincher, the[
Exchange study claims that mutual funds and pension funds,,
almost absent from the market in the 19205, today play a!
key role in stabilising the market.
The outsider, after reading the report, might ask a couplej
of questions. What if the brokers and institutions decided
to sell? And if unregulated loans with 10 or 20 p.c. cash
deposit for share buying were the major cause of the May
1962 setback, are the existing officially regulated 30 p.c. cash
deposits sufficient to protect the public from a similar big-
dipper?
UK BUDGET
SECOND CHORUS
W» AT do they think of the Budget in the UK now that■
everyone has had a chance to voice opinions? Will it
lift Britain from its despondent slough?
“The Economist” calls it variously a disappointing, socialist
Budget but admits that it could be the beginning of a revival.
It says also that the recent successive measures introduced by
Mr Mandling have planted in the economy, by concessions
both to consumers and producers, a sufficient amount °
delayed-action demand to swing the economy dramatically
upwards.
The danger is that the effect now, when the need is gr ea M


may be too little, while the effect later on may be too large
for the economy’s and the currency’s international safety.
It is not a particularly heartening summary. But there are
so many side issues to distract Britain from the task of
revival that people are wondering if a deficit Budget can
have all that effect on their lives.
Strikes are threatened because of the proposed dismember-
ing of the railways; failure to join the Common Market and
the struttings of General de Gaulle are discordant reminders
that Britain has been dismembered as a power. US reports
that Britain’s Navy ranks very “third rate” after the US and
Soviet navies hit hard at a time when Britain is trying to
retain some prestige rating in Europe.
So, when Budget commentators talk of expansion and a
policy of continuing efficient growth in the economy, the
man in the street tends to wonder why all this was not done
before.
Will all this come about just because there have been tax
cuts for the majority of low-paid spenders? If so, let’s have
some more and get cracking.
Nagging international problems still bubble near the surface
and they cannot be quietened by tax cuts. The upset in
Western defence, dislocation of markets, growing agricultural
headaches and the knowledge that the US also is embarking
on deficit financing while calling for world-wide tariff cuts
... all raise doubts if a Budget can set everything right and
raise living standards overnight.
If the Budget stimulates the changes necessary in Britain
to revitalise industry and trade it could, indeed, swing the
economy upwards. But many wait-and-see observers are
wondering if the Budget will do nothing more than spark
inflation without any beneficial side effects.
There may be some comfort in recalling that the same
was said in Australia when measures were initiated in 1961
to get the economy going again after the November, 1960,
credit squeeze. Experience proved that it needs more than
a single prod of the needle.
ANOTHER INDUSTRIAL
REVOLUTION WANTED
aroma of stagnation and old techniques in Britain’s
industries is revealed harshly in a research article by
Prof. T. Barna, of the National Institute of Economic and
Social Research. Britain is failing to keep up with competitors
in the export of new and technically advanced products.
By analysing Britain’s deficit in net exports of manufactures
since 1954, Prof. Barna discovered that Britain is taking a
trouncing from nations like West Germany, Italy and Japan
which are producing modern machine tools, engineering plant,
office machinery, scientific instruments, plastics, organic
chemicals, electrical measuring machinery.
There is some face saving. Britain continues to do well with
older types of plastics, bicycles, electrical batteries, machinery
and chemicals, where she has a larger net export surplus than
! West Germany. But she is losing out in the faster growing
trades. Thus, Prof. Barna says, “The faster world demand is
expanding for a product group, the more inferior is Britain’s
share.”
CAPITAL INFLOW:
\ OTHER SIDE OF THE PENNY
Reporting in the London news-sheet of the Victoria Pro-
motion Committee on her trip out here late last year with
two other British parliamentarians, Dame Patricia Hornsby-
noted with some satisfaction that Morphy Richards and
Klingers, two firms in her electorate, had established plants in
Australia and that Standard Telephones, which is now wholly
Australian, originally started life in the Home Counties.
However, she says, “the rising trend of Australian exports
(presumably of manufactures) means that such investments
react to Britain’s disadvantage since such firms take over all
the export trade to the Southern Hemisphere, thus decreasing
exports from Britain.”
As the main object of the Victoria Promotion Committee is
to attract such firms to come to what the Melbourne corres-
pondent of the London “Times” recently called “this solid city
which might be called the hip-pocket of the Commonwealth”,
Dame Patricia might have found a more appropriate place to
point the other side of the capital inflow penny. Besides, it is
customary for UK parents to restrict the export activities of
overseas subsidiaries.
PICKING STOCKS
FOR A RISE
“HThe Economist” of London is running an investment com-
petition. It invites subscribers to test their judgment by
investing, theoretically, £stg.2o,ooo in any ten of the British,
American, French, German, Dutch, Canadian, Australian and
Japanese securities quoted weekly in “The Economist’s” list of
security prices.
Object is to see who does best in the six months to
October 9.
Early entries show that UK entrants to the competition are
not impressed by the UK Budget’s effect on local share prices,
because a high percentage of the investment competitors
picked a wide spread of overseas stocks.
Anyone who is picking Australian stocks is restricted to a
dozen companies . . . and there are a few surprises among
them. Here they are: Ampol Petroleum, Associated Pulp,
ACI, AOG, British Tobacco, BHP, G. J. Coles, Felt &
Textiles, ICIANZ, Myer, Ready Mixed Concrete, Woolworths.
These stocks are stacked against some very high priced
stocks from other countries. Percentage-wise a rise of Is. or
2s. would be more effective on Felt & Textiles or RMC than,
say, a 10 p.c. rise (44 dollars) on IBM in New York.
PROSPERITY WITH
RESTRAINT
‘TFhere would appear to be few trouble spots in sight at
present,” says the National Bank of Australasia in its latest
monthly review of current business and prospects. The opinion
is generally shared by economists and underlined in the last two
weeks by encouraging speeches by the PM in Brisbane and the
Treasurer in Adelaide. It is underscored by the margins and
leave judgments and the promising drop in unemployment.
The Bank goes on to say: “Once again a reasonably solid
foundation for steady progress has been attained.” It seems
to be content at this limited prospect rather than suggesting we
have reached a platform from which a more determined thrust
in growth could be safely attempted. It thinks merely that the
present position is propitious for undertaking “the research
and work necessary to assess more firmly our prospects for
longer-term growth and development.”
For its part, the Bank thinks that “future increases in activity
may well have to be within the normal framework of growth
and development without much assistance from special measures
as, by and large, we have now recovered from the recession.”
The Bank’s prescription is obviously “prosperity with
restraint”, which may sound pleasant enough, but is far from
exciting in the light of the development tasks ahead.


t$
•*8
F\
mmrv-
- - 'JZr^SfS
V^!
mm®?
*'•;. -
'
J>
m
vj
V-.~ ••
Hi
B
F.C.A. LEASING will
expand production
and conserve capital
at the same time
An F.C.A. Leasing Plan can
allow progressive and compe-
titive companies to acquire
productive use of new plant
and equipment without capital
outlay.
F.C.A. Leasing
■ frees working capital for
more profitable use.
■ allows immediate expansion
or replacement of plant
without change in capital
structure.
■ provides new plant NOW,
increasing efficiency, pro-
duction and profitability.
Under F.C.A. Leasing Plans
you select the equipment, deter-
mine its cost, choose the vendor.
As specialists in Leasing
F.C.A. Leasing Limited offers
the services of its staff of
expert leasing consultants to
design a Leasing Plan to meet
specific requirements.
To find out how you can achieve your objectives through leasing—and why it pays
to lease from F.C.A.—write, phone or call any F.C.A. Leasing Limited Office.
ADELAIDE: F.C.A. Building, 15 Franklin St. Telephone: 51 3781
MELBOURNE: Union House, 51 Queen St. Telephone: 61 3051
SYDNEY: Anchor House, Cnr. George & Bridge Sts. Telephone: 27 7003
BRISBANE: Mercantile House, 262 Adelaide St. Telephone: 31 2861
PERTH: M.L.C. Building, 171-177 St. George’s Tee. Telephone: 21 3181
Leasing
Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
F.C.A. LEASING LIMITED IS A SUBSIDIARY OF FINANCE CORPORATION OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED rL


YOUR
COMPANY CARS!
SAVE
ADMINISTRATION
CONSERVE
CAPITAL
INCREASE
PROFITS
KAYS FULLY SERVICED AUTO LEASE
• Eliminates the necessity of tying up valuable working capita*!.
• Eliminates company transport administration.
• Eriables accurate budgeting with no detailed accounting.
• Offers free replacement transport in case of accidents or breakdown.
• Eliminates all contingencies arising out of company ownership.
Let Kays show you the economics and numerous benefits to be derived
through AUTO LEASE.
r AYS
LEASING COUP,
nr. ltd.
A UNIT OF KAY CORPORATION LIMITED
:! MELBOURNE
II (HEAD OFFICE)
1 18-30 MT. ALEXANDER RD.
33 0431
M SYDNEY
I! 106 WILLIAM ST. 31 6621
I BRISBANE
§ 40 TANK ST. 2 5837
II ADELAIDE
17 TAVISTOCK ST. 8 6486
11 LAUNCESTON
1: 100 GEORGE ST. 2 4894
KL/R
Reginald Maudling
Flooding Russia with women’s underivear?
A PROFILE
Reginald Maudling actually lists
among his special qualifications for
the British Chancellor’s post the fact that
he has always wanted it.
As the son of a City actuary, he may
be said to have grown up with figures
as familiar company. He first went into
politics because he was fascinated by
the interaction of business and govern-
ment, a process often reflected in bal-
ance sheets. Yet it would be wrong to
conclude that Maudling has a dry nature
of the kind commonly associated with
these disciplines. Fewer people would
habitually call him “Reggie” if he had.
In fact, he has a strong distaste for
impersonal bureaucracy, which rein-
forced his initial middle-class bias
against Socialism. It was a feeling he
acquired during the war, when he
| volunteered for the RAF, was found
too short-sighted for active service, and
! ended up on the staff of the Air Minister
I and Liberal leader, Sir Archibald
I Sinclair.
Maudling belongs to that group of
! younger Conservative Ministers whose
careers are entirely postwar. He spent
some years in the “Butler kindergarten”
in the Conservative research department
before becoming an MP in 1950. Still
only 46, he was hailed as the Govern-
ment’s wunderkind more than five years
ago, when he was put in charge of
Britain’s first attempt to link up with the
Common Market.
After the failure of these Free Trade
Area negotiations he was for some time
under a cloud. Two years ago he was
seriously considering withdrawal to the
I boardroom pastures when the Prime
'Minister hit on the bright idea of send-
ing him to the Colonial Office, where he
spent a short but successful period.
Appointed Chancellor in the great
purge of last July, Maudling has shown
himself, after a slow start, both more
human and more knowledgeable than
his predecessors.
There can be no doubting his intel-
lectual capacity. His brain is possibly
the best in the Cabinet and certainly the
quickest. Before one has finished asking
him a question he is already two moves
jahead with the answer and is sufficiently
confident to change his mind frequently
und at the last moment.
Rather in the tradition of David
Hume, Maudling’s intellectual outlook
I s °f the sceptical humanist kind. There
is nothing of the High Tory belief in
Church and State behind his expansive
hut bourgeois Conservatism.
I Yet he is not just an expert guardian
of suburban prosperity. He stresses that
people need a purpose beyond the week-
end game of golf and he speaks as
one who would have been a golfing Blue
had he applied himself more single-
mindedly.
Maudling believes that a drive against
the abject poverty of Africa and Asia
might provide fresh outlets for the
national energies that formerly went
into governing the Empire. He has in
fact quietly dropped some cherished
financial orthodoxies in an attempt to
apply Britain’s own unused resources to
overseas aid.
Convinced that Russia will move
nearer the West politically as the mate-
rial standards of her people improve,
Maudling sometimes thinks it might help
to ease cold war tensions if we flooded
the Russian market with women’s under-
wear of good quality.
The next Tory leader may well have
a hard job, and most criticism of Maud-
ling as a candidate boils down to the
suspicion that he is not tough enough
for it, that he is “too nice a person”.
Some have also questibned whether or
not his diplomatic skill is as great as his
ability to get with lightning speed to the
bottom of a complicated brief.
There is the same big gap between
his bold, unorthodox conversation and
his rather cautious policies as is notice-
able in Harold Macmillan. But he has
yet to show the Prime Minister’s capa-
city for occasionally ruthless action.
Even so, nobody should under-rate
Maudling’s common sense, easy-going
as it may be. His intellectual scepticism
makes him open to a wider variety of
influences than the conventional “tough
Chancellor” usually is. But when he has
formed a really firm conviction of his
own, he is difficult to budge.
Unlike most politicians, Reginald
Maudling neither enjoys exercising
power over other people nor claims to
have panaceas. His suitability as a
future national leader may well depend
on the character of the changes then
needed to make Britain up to date.
If these require a ruthless and single-
minded overturning of most established
habits and institutions, then someone
else is probably needed. But if the
adaptation can be made through the
gentler exercise of good sense, good
humor and intelligence, then Maud-
ling’s claims to preside over the next
phase of Tory power are indeed impres-
sive.


TRANS-TASMAN TRADE
New Zealanders Still Suspicious
From Our New Zealand Correspondent
A cartoon in the New Zealand
Herald reproduced on this page
showing a knee-shaking Mr Jack
Marshall, Minister of Overseas Trade, in
front of a limbo bar held only a few
inches above the ground by two charac-
ters named “Aussie Farmers’ Lobby” and
“Aussie Manufacturers’ Lobby,” aptly
sums up the feelings of many New
Zealanders following the joint statement
by Mr Marshall and Mr John McEwen
(Australian Minister for Trade) on the
investigation of a free trade area.
The statement issued after the Min-
isters’ talks in Wellington has been
guardedly welcomed here but most
New Zealanders are just as suspicious
as they were before regarding Australia’s
preparedness to make trade between the
two countries more of a two-way affair.
On a recent visit to Australia I found
some ground for the present seeing-is-
believing attitude. But I also became con-
vinced that New Zealand should bear
part of the blame for the trickle of New
Zealand goods going to Australia as com-
pared with the stream of Australian
goods going the other way.
Everywhere in Australia a tremen-
dous goodwill toward New Zealand is
readily noticeable. But with many, that
goodwill is rather superficial. “It’s crazy
we don't get together and trade as much
as we can,” businessmen will tell you.
But if you ask them why they do not
press for a liberalisation of trade, they
hasten to add “ . . . but we’ve got to
protect our industry, you know.”
To me, Australians look obsessed with
protectionism of which we have more
than I like in New Zealand, too. Of
course, a degree of protection is neces-
sary for Australia’s industry, just like
ours needs it. But in many Australians’
thinking this seems to have developed
into a mentality of “You take all our
goods but we won’t have yours if it
could possibly hurt us.”
"jl/fosT New Zealanders have a great ad-
miration for the enormous drive with
which Australians have built up their
industry. We are the best customer for
the goods that industry produces be-
cause we like them, the price is right and
we can be assured of quick delivery. In
short, buying from Australia suits us.
The visitor to Australia cannot be but
impressed by Australia’s industrial
achievements and the forward-looking
concepts of her manufacturers. These
are so apparent every time you talk to
them. However, those same manufac-
turers seem rather shortsighted when they
oppose, openly or otherwise, the entry
of New Zealand made goods, such as
timber products, certain specialised
machinery lines, carpets and garments.
Most of these goods are now subject
to prohibitive tariffs, but it must be
doubted whether they would capture a
very big slice of the Australian market
if their entry were unrestricted in any
way. Yet, exports of these goods could
make for New Zealand all the difference.
They would not close the trade gap, but
narrow it down sufficiently to create a
better “climate” for Australian goods in
New Zealand. Australian manufacturers
would be the first to benefit from this al-
though, of course, some would suffer
from imports from New Zealand.
Nor did I find among Australian
manufacturers much sympathy for the
idea of Australian companies setting up
branch factories in New Zealand to sup-
ply not only the local market, but also
part of the Australian requirements, to be
given free entry under the “by-law”
system. Industrial development in Aus-
tralia has been so rapid that a bilateral
agreement under which Australia would
undertake to leave the manufacture of
certain goods to New Zealand and vice
versa would in most cases no longer be
feasible.
1%/fosTLY because of lack of vision in
New Zealand, the time seems past to
follow the successful example of the
Benelux countries in this respect. But
what could there be against an Australian
manufacturer wanting to make a new
article setting up a plant in Auckland
instead of Melbourne?
I found that certain official circles in
Canberra have thought about this much
more, and favor it more strongly, than
the manufacturers. There is reason to
believe that use of the “by-law” system
was a prominent feature in the Wel-
lington talks.
The case for entry into Australia of
New Zealand grown vegetables and fruit
seems equally strong.
recurring question to New Zea-
landers “talking shop” with Australian
businessmen is “What have you got to
sell?” I had to hang my head in shame
when I noticed how little New Zealand
has done to offer its goods across the Tas-
man. My mouth watered when I saw the
wide variety of imported cheeses and
other foods in Sydney and Melbourne
stores. New Zealand was very poorly
represented for the only reason that Aus-
tralian wholesalers and retailers see New
Zealand salesmen too rarely.
My impression is that most Australians
would welcome closer trade ties with
New Zealand to the benefit of both
countries. They are quite willing to buy
from us, even if it means that some Aus-
tralian industries will not expand as
rapidly as otherwise would be the case.
I also believe that manufacturers and
the food sector will have to ease the
pressure they are putting on the Gov-
ernment before a free trade area, even
a very restricted one, can become a
reality.
* AOCklAKiD G\RL- £05 WopiP
J-lM&D RECORD P,/ GbtMG UMDER
A Uow3offmj- Par. Ueio cniy
N<Mei«a<es fpowrue H-oor."
’•— MCWS
DOWN UNDER


m
a
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
PAID UP CAPITAL £775,000
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
3 months .. . 5 °/c p.a.
6 months .. . 5 1 /2 °/c p.a.
9 months .. . 6 °/c p.a.
12 months .. . 6 Vx°fo p.a.
18 months ... 7 °/o p.a.
• FIXED DEPOSITS
2 years . . . . 7 Vj2 °/c p.a.
3 years and over Bio p.a.
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
• Members of the Stock Exchange
• ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z.
BANK
• The Registered Office of the
Company, William & Crown
Sts., Sydney. Telephone 31-0322
Financing the
distribution by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies of
world-famous
products
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
KYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
11l
111
MAIL THIS COUPON**'
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 27/3/63, giving jull details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
HD63
“CROESUS”
Augury For Company Tax Cut
T ooked at in relation to possible tax
reductions in the next Federal
Budget, the Arbitration Commission’s
decisions to increase margins in the
metal trades and grant a third week’s
paid leave would seem to strengthen the
already strong case for a reduction in
company tax and somewhat to weaken
that for a cut in personal tax rates.
At this stage it is difficult to arrive at
any net figure for the cost to companies
of the margins case decision, since its
full effect on industry will not be known
until determinations for other industries
are made.
The increase of 10 p.c. in a fitter’s
margin works out at about 9s. 6d. a
week addition to margins before the in-
crease, but taking this percentage of
average margins current in Victoria in
all industries, the increase would mean
a rise of less than that more like
7s. 6d. a week.
Taking a rough line over the country
as a whole, the overall increase in com-
pany costs from the margins rise alone,
if applied throughout the wages struc-
ture, would be in the order of from £3O
to £4O million, the lower being the more
likely figure.
Nor is it easy to put a figure on the
net impact on companies of the addi-
tional paid leave. The employers’ coun-
sel said it would be about £3O million a
year, as against £l7O million a year
had the unions’ full claim for increases
in margins been granted. But this looks
a notional sort of figure. While firms
will be denied a further week’s attend-
ance of their labor force, they doubt-
less will contrive to fit this in without
incurring a corresponding overall reduc-
tion in output. This might be achieved
by a more efficient arrangement of
work.
However, a good many firms, includ-
ing some of the biggest employers of
labor, are in the habit of closing down
their operations for the two weeks
annual leave period. Some of these
doubtless will continue this policy even
for the full stretch of three weeks. In
those cases firms would be denied a full
week’s production and at the same time
have to bear the cost of a full week’s
pay to all employees.
Allowing for the fact that three weeks’
leave is general in NSW and Tasmania,
and also that many firms in other States
already give three weeks’ leave, the over-
all increase to the national wage bill
resulting from the extra week’s leave
might work out at £2O to £25 million,
or about two-thirds of the employers’
estimate given at the Arbitration Court
hearings.
Overall, however, there could be a
net increase in wage costs between £5O
to £65 million a year as a result of the
two decisions. At a time when we are
looking to companies to step up their
investment out of retained profits and
the investment market is in no great
shape for the raising of new money, this
might seem a blow to the progress of
industrial investment.
Even Mr Hawke, the unions’ counsel
in the Margins case, would admit that
the extra money in the hands of employ-
ees will be useful, even if not as strong
as his full demands would have been, as
a stimulant to the ever so stable


QUESTION
TIME
AT
THE
It’s always question time at the C.8.C.! Our
experience is always available to those who seek it.
The C.B.C. is one of Australia’s oldest banks. It
provides world-wide banking service and is closely
in touch with developments both here and abroad.
The manager of your nearest branch will be
happy to answer your enquiries. Call and see him.
You will be welcome.
<4O
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
economy. (Note the steadiness of the
consumer price index in the March
quarter.) However, Mr Holt, with the
independent assessments of the Arbitra-
tion Commission beyond his reach, will
take note that by next Budget it will be
exerting an effect throughout the
economy.
It must be hoped that the Treasurer
will take this into consideration next
August when determining where tax
concessions would do the most good.
It is understood that Treasury offi-
cials, who are quite open about their
disappointment with the effect the intro-
duction of investment allowances has
had in stimulating private investment,
are now convinced that a cut in corn-
pany tax would have been a better alter-
native and would certainly now favor
that route. This could prove to be a
good omen for the business world in a
few months’ time.
Indeed, so far as these things can be
judged with the Budget more than three
months away, Mr Holt would be right
in thinking that the Arbitration Commis-
sion has done just about all that need
be done to boost spending power in the
present state of the economy. He should
now turn his thoughts towards lifting
some of the burden now imposed on
company costs by way of a reduction in
company taxation. That would certainly
be a desirable course in the light of the
continued hesitancy of private invest-
ment, which so far has gained little
boost from the nibbling away at interest
rates over the last two months.
However, the key to his action in this
respect conceivably could lie in quite a
different direction. There is a distinct
possibility that, as the boost to spending
power resulting from the Arbitration
Commission’s decisions takes effect, un-
employment could be reduced practi-
cally to the “hard core” level Then the
present growing shortage of skilled
labor, notably in the metal trades,
could become acute. The latter in par-
ticular could put a limit on the extent
to which the economy could afford a
sharp increase in gross private fixed
investment.
CANDID DIRECTORS
TTnder the heading “Letters We
Couldn’t Decide Whether to Finish
Reading or Not,” the “New Yorker” of
April 13 publishes this candid com-
munication from a board of directors
to its stock-holders: —
Marine Oil and Gas Co. Ltd, Windsor,
Ontario, March 15, 1963.
To Stockholders of Marine Oil & Gas
Co. Ltd.
President’s Report and Recommen-
dations:
As you know the Company is now
completely inactive, riddled with debts
and without funds. In April . . .
WHAT’S NEEDED IN WOOL
fT*HE School of Wool Technology will
hold a four-day session of lectures,
and practical demonstrations from May
13 to 16, at the University of NSW The
lectures will be of gr-eat value to those
engaged in sheep and wool production.
Two of the most interesting subjects
on the first day will be “What the Manu-
facturer Requires in Raw Wool the
United States Outlook” (by Dr W. Von
Bergen, visiting US Research Fellow)
and “What the Manufacturer Requires
in the Clip a New Approach to Wool
Classing” (by Dr K. J. Whiteley).
All four days will be chock-full of dis-
cussions on almost every aspect of wool
production. The fee for the school is
£6, and further particulars may be had
from Dr E. M. Roberts or Mr P. Houla-
han at the University.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Bright Future Forecast for BHP
W/hat changes lie ahead for BHP over,
say, the next ten years? Few people
are better equipped to look into BHP’s
future than N. R. Wills, former
economist at the company and now
Professor of Business Administration in
the University of New South Wales. In
The Economics of Australian Industry
he has written a penetrating chapter on
the past, present and future of the iron
and steel industry, which, of course, is
dominated by the BHP group of com-
panies.
To start with, Wills thinks that in all
likelihood the next ten years will see
even greater changes in the structure
of the company than in the last decade.
Enumerating the changes during that
time, Wills points to the emergence
of an entirely new generation of execu-
tives. These, unlike the old guard who
used to run the company, are largely
products of tertiary education, mainly
university graduates or diplomates, a few
university accountants and one or two
economists. Moreover, the age of direc-
tors and senior executives are lower than
in 1950, and there are far more
managers, particularly second-line mana-
gers, throughout the organisation where
formalisation of management functions
has become the keynote.
HThe last ten years have witnessed a
"*■ great extension in the number of
shareholders; in fact, a trebling with
about 80 p.c. of them domiciled in Aus-
tralia. Paid capital has increased nine
times, net worth seven times and net
profit 11 times over the period.
For all that, Wills considers that the
1950 s were, in a sense, a holding period
for the company, concerned mainly with
the addition of new facilities for over-
taking home demand. But in the holding
process the industry acquired an entirely
new and greatly enlarged base for future
expansion new sources of ironstone,
new ships, new and superbly equipped
coal mines, new coke ovens, blast
furnaces, rolling mills and products. As
a result, Wills says, “by the end of the
decade BHP stood poised for the next
major move forward into fundamental
and applied research, into new tech-
nology, new product development
(especially in regard to flat products)
and into new geographical spheres of
operation.”
Stimulated by the investment boom at
the end of the 1950 s when, as at the
beginning of the decade, demand was
well ahead of capacity and production,
the company pushed vigorously into its
third major postwar expansion pro-
gramme with annual capital expenditure
outlays of £4O million and £.51 million
in the first two years. (The latter rate
is being well maintained in the current
year to May 31, 1963.) This is evidence
that the company is convinced that
modern recessions are short-lived and
should not be allowed unduly to disturb
planned rates of growth.
The scope of this third programme
differs greatly from the first two. The
earlier ones were primarily concerned
with completing Port Kembla's No. 1
iron and steel plant, its vast flat products
division, the construction of tinplate
plants and then part of the No. 2 iron
and steel complex. The third expansion
programme, although including Port
Kembla in its scope, extends much
further. It embraces the now ageing
Newcastle steel works where a major
campaign of modernisation and expan-
sion is being undertaken.
VTewcastle carried most of the bur-
den and heat of the day when the
iron and steel industry was young, says
Wills. Now with nearly 50 years of life
behind it, Newcastle is being built into
the main centre of new oxygen steel
making in Australia as well as acquir-
ing a fourth blast furnace and new
rolling mills.
Development at Newcastle is paralleled
by a transformation at Whyalla (SA).
Construction there of an oxygen steel-
making plant, a second blast furnace,
rolling mills and ancillaries will raise
Whyalla to be the third fully integrated
iron and steel centre in Australia.
Wills says that because iron and steel
plants are invariably built in stages “one
can imagine many future additions to
Whyalla’s initial capacity, just as the past
is witness to periodic major additions to
both Newcastle’s and Port Kembla’s
original facilities. Modern steel plants
have a way of getting to one million tons
fairly quickly, and no doubt Whyalla
will go beyond its first stage before many
years have passed. The biggest tasks
have always been faced at the green
fields stage; thereafter major additions
come more easily, more cheaply and
often as a matter of course.”
Again, while Whyalla should be a
flourishing centre of ingot and rolled
steel products by the mid-19605, “behind
it and hard on its heels” will come
Kwinana (WA) where the present plan
envisages both iron and steel making and
addition to the present rolling facilities.
Major innovations in techniques are
likely to be incorporated in steel-making
plant there, says Wills. The extent to
which plant will depart from conven-
tional forms depends on what further
advances are made in basic technology.
“Already ‘L.D. steel’ that is, steel
made by the Linz-Donawitz oxygen pro-
cess is a rival to open hearth. Maybe
direct reduction of ore to iron holds the
key to an eventual elimination of the
very costly blast furnace and the con-
tinuous casting of shapes may be the
route by-passing heavy primary and
secondary rolling mills. If these revolu-
tionary processes come to mean lower
capital costs without sacrifice of tonnage,
quality or variety, then undoubtedly
they will be adopted in due course
because the rising cost of new plant with
the attendant ogre of excess capacity
remains the fear of all basic steel
makers.”
Thus, says Wills, the Australian iron
and steel industry is heavily commitied
for at least ten years with clear-cut and
definite plans. While he believes that
demand, especially for exports, may re-
main variable and therefore only broadly
predictable, there are compensating
assurances for the industry’s managers
in other directions. An example is the
long established tariff-free price advant-
age in the local market (“with all this
must mean to BHP”) and “there remains
little likelihood of a competitor arising
to disturb the now highly rationalised
and economical pattern of production
and distribution.”
/”|n the question of a possible com-
petitor, he thinks it is arguable that
competition has little to recommend it
when it means the strong possibility of
idle capacity with unnecessary duplica-
tion of facilities. “Worst of all, it could
mean an erosion of retained earnings.”
As to raw materials there is an
abundance. “If the fear of depleting the
continent’s high grade and therefore
cheap ironstone reserves once exercised
a restraining influence on BHP, those
days are gone forever.”
In sum, Wills sees a bright future for
BHP. Its main task in the decade ahead
will be to turn its matchless assets to the
maximum advantage. And “if by means
of exported steel in semi-finished, finished
or manufactured form the company is
able to assist Australia to convert its
all too frequent deficits on trading
account into continuing surpluses, it will
have more than justified its special place
in the Australian economy.”


Not All Sunshine For Business
The present performance and future
prospects of the Australian economy
were decked with lavish official
praise last week. The Prime Minister (in
Brisbane), the Treasurer (in Adelaide),
and the Minister for Labor and Nation-
al Service (in Sydney) spread a nation-
wide air of satisfaction and optimism.
Indeed Sir Robert even went so far
as to turn a point of great concern
among businessmen to favor his own
presentation.
“It is interesting to note,” he remark-
ed, “that the Arbitration Court made the
improvement in the country’s economy
the principal reason for its recent de-
cision on leave and margins.”
Meanwhile Mr Holt was reciting the
main indicators to establish a proposition
that the national economy was better
equipped for progress than it had been
for many years. Consumer indexes, mig-
rant intake, exports, imports, overseas
funds and capital inflow all buttressed
this argument.
Mr McMahon joined the chorus by
adding his hope and expectation that the
margins and holiday judgment “won’t
have any adverse effect on employment.”
Such a view doubtless fitted into the con-
text of not expecting more than a mod-
erate increase in employment during
1963.
To cap these portents of growth re-
newed, the Prime Minister's portrayal of
a still buoyant loan market is being wide-
ly held to presage tax cuts in the next
Budget. Sir Robert saw a healthy nation-
al loan situation reducing the drain on
the Budget and improving the budgetary
position.
Whether these words really mean a
fully progressive economy can permit
loans more completely to cover public
works financing, with a slackening in
taxation raisings, time and considered
Government policy may tell.
But the immediate moment surely de-
mands that Government euphoria and
confidence do not disguise an exact re-
cognition of the range of problems be-
setting business and trade.
Fortunately a sober corrective comes
to hand in the latest quarterly survey of
the Australia and New Zealand Bank.
In passing, it is a pleasure to observe
how much more trenchant and less hesi-
tant these bank bulletins are becoming.
On a wished-for tax reduction, the
ANZ speaks most judiciously. “While it
is useless to cry over spilt purchasing
power, there is not much virtue either in
heralding a tax cut as a likely sequel to
record loan raisings this year.
“The important role of public finance
in promoting full employment is not in-
hibited by consideration of whether a
government can meet its obligations (as
with an individual or corporation); it is
a matter of whether it is sending more
spending power into the community than
it is withdrawing in revenue,” the bank
roundly asserts.
The survey seems quite willing to
admit that “the nearer a free economy
approaches full recovery, the more deli-
cate becomes the problem of maintain-
ing balance.” One premise of the bank’s
examination, however, is that at present
no one indicator, or a select group, ex-
hibits conclusive evidence of complete
recovery.
Two general tests must also be met:
whether all available resources are em-
ployed and whether the community’s
social and political standards are being
observed. Under this second standard
rests the decision to build more houses,
to clear more slums, to extend the front-
iers of settlement more rapidly.
“It is clear that Australia has numer-
ous idle or partly employed citizens seek-
ing jobs; there is idle capacity in factor-
ies; frustrated and under-employed man-
agers who could handle more labor and
output; roads and other transport equip-
ment which could carry more traffic; and
public utilities could bear a greater load
at little more real cost.
“While it is not practicable to operate
continuously at 100 p.c. capacity, pre-
sent levels of utilisation could be in-
creased. By the criterion of full employ-
ment, therefore, Australian recovery is
inadequate,” the ANZ maintains.
Perhaps the finer adjustments now
called for require special action, “such
as by government subsidies or instrumen-
talities, for slum clearance or develop-
ment of natural resources, export pro-
motion, and improvements in transport
and education.” Even lagging unemploy-
ment might respond to direct action
rather than to general economic stim-
ulus.
Such questions remain to be asked,
and answered, whatever degree of con-
fidence is now expounded.
And the bank is quite unambiguous in
stating that “only if the private sector is
willing to take over a larger share of de-
sirable development can a material re-
duction in taxation be expected.”
Howard Smith prize package
TToward Smith Ltd appeals more as a
successful investor than as a shipper
and colliery owner.
Net tangible asset backing of the 20s.
shares rose in the year to December 31,
1962, from 425. sd. to 455, 2d. It is
reinforced by the excess of market value
over book value of listed shares and de-
bentures amounting to another 16s. sd.
per share.
Net trading profit earned by the group,
including Australian Steamship Pro-
prietary Ltd, Australian Sugar Co. Pty,
the world of business
"I like you people to have your own opinions
but not in this boardroom!"


The Invincible Colliery Ltd, Melbourne
Steamship Co. Ltd, Hobsons Bay Dock
and Engineering Co. Pty, Hodge
Engineering Co. Pty and Cockburn En-
gineering Pty, appears to be £72,056,
while £244,624 came from listed shares
and debentures, £72,284 from other in-
vestments, £207,767 profit from the sale
of investments, and £52,448 profit from
the sale of fixed assets.
Recent sales at 445. 6d. were within
6d. of the minimum price paid in 1962
for this stock. Such bargains may not
come again quickly.
Quotes subsequently widened to 445.
9d. buyer, 475. seller. On the principle
that something's got to give sooner or
later, the market may be prepared to
push these shares along, particularly if
BHP starts to move higher.
AUC’s idle asset
HThe purchase by the Herald and
Weekly Times of the old Sargood
Gardiner property at its back door in
Flinders Lane has been mooted for a
long time, though it has never seemed
very urgent to directors. Now it appears
to be going through, maybe because
AUC, which recently took over Sargood,
has found the property surplus to re-
quirements and, failing a definite offer
from the Herald, AUC obviously would
not have waited too long hanging on to
an idle asset. (More than 90 p.c. of Sar-
goods shareholders have accepted the
AUC offer.)
Going to town on Sleighs
"JUfELBOURNE broker McKinley Wilson
and Co. has been taking H. C.
Sleigh apart in no uncertain manner and,
putting the pieces together again, has
come up with something it likes very
much. The broker believes that the de-
cline in the company’s earnings rate has
been arrested and, while not predicting
a big increase in earnings, thinks it will
be of sufficient dimensions to cover the
12} p.c. dividend and ensure capital ap-
preciation on the stock.
The broker supports this belief with a
number of points, such as an optimistic
view of the outlook for the petroleum
(which may be endorsed) and rubber
industries in which the company is
dually involved. McKinley Wilson likes
the current trading experience of the
company and its subsidiaries, as well as
the fact that there was a marked upturn
in profit last year. The firm is also
impressed with the financial strength of
the group which incidentally is building
an impressive new headquarters on the
corner of Queen and Bourke Streets in
Melbourne. No adverse mention is made
of the failure of the company to get
together with Bitumen and Oil Refineries.
A Tasmanian takeover
A long established and progressive
Tasmanian retailer, G. P. Fitz-
gerald, appears to have made a good
deal in getting some of the pickings from
the sorely pressed Reid Murray Group
with its purchase of Hicks Atkinson
(Tas.) Pty Ltd, one of the up-and-
coming stores in Launceston.
Contrary to the general impression,
this is not a snap purchase, as Fitzgerald
has long had its eyes on the store which
it intends to extend by doubling the floor
space, as well as connecting it up with
the company’s present store.
The purchase price is understood to
be in the region of £lOO,OOO. Last year
Fitzgerald increased profit by £17,133 to
£87,424, but part of the increase came
from the merger with Palfreymans in
July, 1961.
Comalco plumps for Gladstone
Tt seems a long haul to carry bauxite
from Weipa to Gladstone, about 360
miles north of Brisbane, but Comalco’s
long-delayed decision to site its alumina
plant so far from the Weipa raw mate-
rial deposits has been dictated more by
the availability of power supplies than
anything else. The additional £lO million
that would be involved in establishing a
community with all modern amenities at
Weipa in preference to some less remote
spot has been stated as the main reason
for not locating the plant there.
Largely as a result of indecision on its
projected Manapouri development in
New Zealand, Comalco has given Alcoa
(which began pouring metal from its
new aluminium smelter last week) a long
start in the provision of bulk Australian
refined alumina. Alcoa will be refining
alumina at Kwinana (WA) within six
months, whereas it will be 1967 before
Comalco gets local alumina supplies
from Gladstone.
Incidentally, the Weipa port itself is
now open officially that is. About
£2 million has been spent on the port
and facilities during the last two years.
Glow in Electrical Retailing
A s Electronic Industries Ltd swallowed
up the Reid Murray chain of 33
retail electrical stores in NSW, and the
MLC has just moved on the H. G. Palm-
er chain, the largest remaining electrical
chain retailers in NSW, Eric Anderson
(Consolidated) Ltd takes on a new glow.
The Mutual Life and Citizens Assur-
ance Co Ltd is a substantial holder of
both preferred and ordinary shares in
Eric Anderson. Australian Guarantee
Corporation Ltd also took up 800,000
ss. redeemable preference shares in
October last.
Sir Robert Menzies omitted to men-
tion Eric Anderson as one of the bor-
rowers at more than 8 p.c. (which still
survives) when he was countering Mr
Calwell’s attack on the granting ot TV
licences. Eric Anderson was offering a
maximum 9 p.c. on long term debenture
stock in 1961 and 1962. This rate has
been trimmed to 81 p.c. in the current
issue.
In the four years of its public history,
the company has produced net profits
after tax within the vicinity of £.200,000
to £300,000. The 1961-62 earning rate
improved, but the 12} p.c. dividend was
clipped to 10 p.c.
In the December six months profit was
held, and new outlets in Queensland are
expected to improve profits in the second
half of the year.
At about 6s. 2d. the ss. shares yield a
long 8.1 p.c. and are not without pos-
sibilities.
Pointer to Uplift
11/foRE profitable trading by Email Ltd
and General Industries Ltd in the
year to December might be taken as
pointers to more favorable conditions for
John Mcllwraith Ltd, which rules off its
books on June 30.
This Melbourne supplier of builders’
and plumbers’ hardware has been a re-
liable profit-earner. Last financial year,
however, it suffered a substantial fall in
profit, but earning rate of 21.9 p.c. still
gave comfortable cover for the five-year-
old dividend rate of 15 p.c.
The lower level of building activity in
1961/62 has not deterred John Mcll-
wraith from expanding its interests. Don-
son Products, a subsidiary of Albert G.
Sims Ltd, was acquired in December last,
and Haselhurst Industries Ltd. of Perth,
was bought out a few weeks ago.
Directors declared that sales and profit
for the December 1962 half year were
better than in 1961, and although the
building industry was still somewhat
sluggish, there was evidence at the end
of February of an increasing tempo.
Prospects now should be brighter than
in the last two years, yet the ss. shares
are reasonably priced at 18s. or there-
abouts. The yield is 4.2 p.c. The shares
are listed on all major exchanges.
Lime company busier
HPhe optimistic tone of the December
half-year interim report from New-
castle Lime and Cement Co. Ltd
has escaped market attention, perhaps
because of the smallness of the company
and its provincial origins.
Results for the latest period were a
“marked improvement,” directors said
The principal reason was a more active
lime trade, but all sections revealed
profit increases.
With issued capital of only £84,591,


AMALGAMATED CHEMICALS LTD.
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS - 1963
The Chairman and Managing Director, Mr J. D. Wilson,
addressed Shareholders at the annual general meeting on Monday,
April 8, 1963
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I am proud to present to you the accomplishments of your
Company for the Financial year ending thirty-first December,
nineteen hundred and sixty-two. The state of the economy as
a whole was not helpful to us. A marked slackening in
demand for Agricultural Chemicals, due to extremely unusual
seasonal conditions in many areas, though fortunate to our
customers, and therefore, also in our long range interests, was
not conducive to increased sales. Despite these matters, your
Company increased its sales and share of the market.
The consolidated net profit for the year was £754,287 after
charging depreciation of £64,386. After deducting Income
Tax of £245,785 the net profit was £508,502, which repre-
sented an increase of 48.3 p.c. on last year and an earning
rate of 30.2 p.c. on the Capital employed.
A source of confusion to Shareholders has been the associa-
tion, by virtue mainly of its name, of this Company with the
Basic Chemical Manufacturers. Very frequently we are
associated with the Basic Chemical Industry, and the diffi-
culties of that Industry, which is now seeking tariff protection,
are often interpreted as also being the difficulties of our par-
ticular enterprise.
This Company is, in the main, a formulator and distributor
of agricultural chemicals. With a few exceptions, we buy our
basic materials, either locally or from overseas, and formulate
them with the required additives, into a specialised chemical
product which is used mainly by rural industries.
Oursjs not a problem of over-capacity, or of the need for
tariff protection. We simply supply the demand for our
specialised products, which are made from the basic materials
freely available in Australia and/or Overseas.
This is a continuously developing industry. The great
Chemical Companies of the World are spending vast sums of
money in research, and are constantly developing new
materials, each having characteristics which indicate an
advance on their predecessors.
The man on the land needs to conduct his industry with the
greatest possible efficiency in order to expand his marketing
opportunities. Your Company is the link between. Our Field
Research and educational assistance to the Farmer is a
necessary adjunct to both facets of the Industry. Our strong
marketing organisation takes over the distribution of the
products to the satisfaction of all concerned.
We are confident of continuing progress of your Company.
The calibre of our Staff, service, and products, ensures our
advancement. A great deal more remains to be done which
will increase the value of your investment. Already this
financial year, it has been possible to close three of our
smaller factories after moving the plant to our Bankstown
factory. This, of course, will result in lower costs of product-
ion. However, due to slackening in the economy, we have to
date been unable to dispose of the resultant surplus factories:
continuing efforts are being made to do this, and when suc-
cessful, further cost savings will result.
We have not been unmindful of our Customers’ wants. At
considerable expense, represented, inter alia, by increased
inventories, causing an attendant chain of costs, including
storage, interest charges and handling expenses, we have
improved the service offered to the Primary Producer to a
stage whereby we have replaced delays exceeding three weeks
to our present standard, whereby goods leave our factories no
later than the day following receipt of order.
In addition, your Company has continued its policy of
providing extended credit to Primary Producers. Sales
increases and, in addition, the effect of Credit restrictions,
have caused a build-up of Debtors carried, but adequate pro-
visions have been made and precautions taken against non-
realisation.
In the light of the above and with a view to financing the
cost of new plant, the Company has now made a Share issue
in the proportion of one for four at a premium of 2/6d. Your
Directors are confident, that the dividend rate will be, tt the
least, maintained on the increased Capital. Progress for the
first three months of this financial year already shows a satis-
factory increase, as compared with the corresponding period
of the previous year.
As you have already been advised through Press announce-
ments, Parke, Davis & Co., one of the leading Pharmaceutical
Chemical Manufacturers of the World, recently canvassed the
possibility of taking over this Company. Your Directors indi-
cated that they would not be disposed to recommend other
than a very substantial offer, and they believe that the
Balance Sheet in your hands fully justifies this attitude.
In closing my Report to the Shareholders, I would like to
express my thanks to the Directors and Staff of the Company
who have applied themselves enthusiastically in furthering
the interests of the Company; their undivided support and
loyalty have been most encouraging, and above all other
thing, have contributed to a marked degree to the success
achieved.


the ss. shares are not frequently traded,
but they recently changed hands at
17s. 6d., just about as low as they have
been these last 15 months.
In the last year ended June, earning
rate strengthened to 27.2 p.c., and the
dividend was raised from 12i p.c. to
15 p.c., notwithstanding doldrums in the
building and ready-mixed concrete fields
elsewhere.
The company could at any time at-
tract favorable attention from the larger
cement and ready-mix concrete firms,
and meantime looks attractive on its own
account.
RVB prospers
one-for-four bonus from RVB
A Engineering Products Ltd testifies to
the buoyancy in the motor industry.
RVB produces motor accessories,
garage, marine and industrial equipment.
It is a small Melbourne company and
hasn’t had a capital change since 1957
when a three-for-ten scrip distribution
was made. In 1955 there was a one-for-
-3 5 bonus.
Dividend should be maintained at the
current rate of 20 p.c., directors fore-
cast.
By the same token, National Con-
solidated and Repco should be really
thriving.
Email high enough
after subtracting the special items
favoring profit for the year to De-
cember 31, 1962, it is evident that trad-
ing by Email Ltd was a good deal better
than in 1961.
As the change in balance dates for
certain operations contributed £55,252
and a special dividend of £134.635 was
received from a company formerly a
subsidiary and now an associated com-
pany, the real profit advance can be as-
sessed at £103,608 on the 1961 profit
of £521,835.
Email was one of the companies ex-
pected to show substantial recovery in
1962, because its financial year to De-
cember 31, 1961, bore the full brunt of
the credit squeeze.
Latest result is creditable, considering
the intense competition in the electrical
appliance industry and the slackness in
home building in 1962.
But the 11.1 p.c. earning rate is not yet
high enough to inspire great enthusiasm.
The investing public will await with
interest the full accounts and directors’
report.
The ss. shares at Bs. 4d. (to yield 6.0
p.c.) are priced by the market as an
income stock and the company will need
to show further improvement to arouse
stronger buying support.
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
My Ego Gets a Lift
VI/hat I’d said last week about the slow
" moving market has been pushed
right back in my face. The value of the
portfolio subsequently rose by £200! It
would have been helped further if I had
shorted Amalgamated Chemicals.
Hence, primarily for my ego, I thought
this an opportune moment to calculate
total profit so far for the year:
Value of portfolio 1 -1-’63 £5,750
Value of portfolio 26-4-’63 £6,230
Profit to date £4BO
In summary, no complaints about the
industrial shares, but the oil shares un-
fortunately tell a different story. Also I
did not have the opportunity of partici-
pating in any new floats. To use that
favourite word in reports, the net result
is “satisfactory”.
Figuring prominently in the portfolio,
but not so much in this year’s profit, is
Hanimex. Since my sermon some weeks
ago, the shares dipped to 8/3 and then
rose to 8/9.
Let’s be coldly logical about this com-
pany. The profit growth since 1960 can-
not be faulted. Profit has continued to
rise in the first half of this year. The
earnings yield is an impressively high
17 p.c. With continued diversification
into small electrical products, the
medium and long term prospects seem
good.
By the time I had finished digesting
this argument, the share was on the
rebound from Bs. 3d. I bought 500 at
Bs. 6d. early in the week.
Another company which I’ve followed
with more than usual interest recently is
Ferris Industries. You may remember
my being in the fully paid shares last
year. If I can repeat that performance
with the contributing shares, I may show
my appreciation by buying a Ferris car
radio for that Valiant when and if
delivered.
Ferris Industries ventured into the
production of television sets in the mid-
fifties and this temporarily was its un-
doing. But like General Industries, the
company admitted its mistake and with-
drew from this field. Now production is
concentrated on portable car radios,
“Channelmaster” television aerials and
television replacement parts.
Since the beginning of 1962, profits
have shown a continued improvement.
Most of the 1961-62 profit of £26,300
was made in the last six months. The
profit for the first six months of that
year was £19,600 so that current earning
rate is about 15 p.c.
As the company was undercapitalised,
it was only a matter of time before the
2s. 6d. call on the contributing shares
was made. Some weakening of the con-
tributing shares was to be expected.
However, the fall from 2s. sd. to Is.
lOd. exceeds my meaning of “some”. I
managed to pick up 1,000 at this price.
On with this buying spree. Felt and
Textiles’ one-for-five par share issue has
just come on the market.
If related diversification and geo-
graphical spread is a good thing, this
company goes straight into the top
bracket. Interests range from the pro-
cessing of greasy wool to floor cover-
ings, footwear, textiles, clothing and
and plastics. To carry it one step
further, similar operations are conducted
in both New Zealand and South Africa.
After rising nicely to a peak of
£1,008,000 in 1960, profit slumped back
to £633,000 in 1961. Not to be deterred,
profit recovered to <£835,000 in 1962.
Current profit could well rise back to the
£1,000,000 level.
With this background, the rights
should prove popular. I bought 2000 at
3s. 3d.
Despite all this enthusiastic buying,
my greatest joy for the week was the
taking of a profit of £lOl for the 1,000
Holyman Woods. When the share got to
6s. 6d. it seemed more than a fair price.
Therefore at almost 75., no wonder I
regarded it overpriced in the short term.
Not that I am complaining. I was as
pleased as Punch about the whole thing.
Transactions for this week were:—
SOLD
1000 Holyman Woods 6/10 .... £332
BOUGHT
500 Hanimex 8/6 £2lB
1000 Ferris ctg. 1/10 £ 96
2000 Felt & Textiles Rts. 3/3 £343
My portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1500 Hanimex 23/5/62 6/9 8/9
400 Jacoby Mitchell 12/11/62 15/- 14/6
1000 Tasman 7/1/63 1/2 1/-
1000 Courtaulds op. (14/-) 14/1/63 2/1
400 Fairymead ' 21/1/63 41/ 47/-
600 David Jones notes 21/1/63 17/3 19/3
3000 Hooker 64 options 23/1/63 1/- lOd.
2000 Alliance 1/2/63 1/1 lOd.
1000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4 4/8
200 Philip Morris 14/2/63 34/6 35/3
400 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3 16/-
600 A. V. Jennings 28/2/63 9/10 9/9
200 BHP 8/3/63 52/6 52/-
500 Kay Corp. 14/3/63 8/10 9/-
1000 Woodside ctg. 14/3/63 3/8 2/-
2000 Gen. Ind. op. (8/9) 20/3/63 lid.
1000 Aust. Factors, Vic. 27/3/63 8/6 9/3
500 Amagraze 8/4/63 7/6 7/6
1000 AN I 18/4/63 4/1 4/3
1000 Kolotex 18/4/63 4/2 4/7
1000 Ferris ctg. 23/4/63 1/10 1/10
2000 Felt. rts. 24/4/63 3/3 3/4


FINANCE
CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in South Australia)
Registered
First Mortgage Debenture Stock
Va
PER ANNUM 10 YEARS
1
m)
PER ANNUM
6 YEARS
PER ANNUM
3 YEARS
Prospectuses and Forms of Application should be
obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Perth.
Applications for Debenture Stock can be accepted
only on the printed form referred to in and attached
to the prospectus.
C 281
ONE TO BUY
Reward for Patience
HThe 20s. shares of Emu and Prospect
■*' Gravel and Road Metal Co. Ltd, at
about £5 2s. 6d., hardly qualify for the
bargain basement shopper. But the price
should not frighten the modest investor
The cost is no more than 255. 7id.
for a ss. share. A marketable parcel of
25 shares can be had for about £l3O,
including charges.
The small capital of £142,086 makes
for scarcity of the shares on the market,
but they are worth the exercise of a little
patience when ordering.
In the last three years earning rate
on growing capital increased from 29.4 to
37.5 p.c., and the interim report of a
26 p.c. lift in group net profit shows the
trend continued in 1962-63.
Group sales in the six months to last
December were 8 p.c. higher and income
from investments was 21 p.c. higher than
for the six months to December, 1961.
Interim dividend was steady at 8f p.c.
maintaining the 17i p.c. rate established
in 1959-60.
The shares have dropped 20s. since
the end of February in sympathy with
some of the poor results announced by
others in the building materials trade.
Several road metal and concrete com-
panies have reported less satisfactory
results and trading conditions, but Emu
looks a genuine exception. Directors
reported in March that competition
remained very keen in the concrete
aggregate business (in which they par-
ticipate through a shareholding in Emu
Ready Mixed Concrete Pty). Otherwise
there seems no cause for market doubt.
In October last this associated interest
was reported to show a “very satisfactory
return on capital employed,” and “other
associated companies in the quarrying,
hot-mix and transport industries show
good returns.”
Emu is associated with Blue Metal In-
dustries in companies operating gravel
and sand deposits on the Nepean River
and a blue-metal plant in Newcastle. But
its main activity is the winning of sand
and gravel at Emu Plains, west of
Sydney, on its own account.
Whether the association with BMI
will become closer is purely a matter for
speculation, but at present Emu looks
more attractive on its own.
A purchase of Emu shares at around
current levels should repay the patient
holder. The tight capital and high earn-
ing rate provide unusual attraction.


SECURITY ANALYSIS
Rothmans’ “King-Size” Growth
During the first quarter of 1963,
Rothmans’ shares have been as
low as 345. 6d. and have not risen
above 395. At the high price, they show
a dividend yield of just over 5.1 p.c.
covered about 1.7 times, or in other
words, an earnings yield of 8.9 p.c. and
a price-earnings ratio of 11.3.
Strangely enough, this figure of 395. is
almost precisely equal (after allowing
for new issues) to the high figure of
£.7 11s. Od. paid for the 20s. shares in
1960 when they were cum the l-for-2
issue made that year, but the apparent
dividend yield at that time was only
2.8 p.c.
The current dividend yield and earn-
ings yield are sufficiently high to be
attractive, and it is worth examining the
situation now that we have records for
the five profitable years of operations.
Rothmans of Pall Mall (Australia)
Ltd was incorporated in Sydney on
April 28, 1955, just about eight years
ago, and six months later an issue of
ordinary shares at par was made to the
public.
It seems fairly clear from the informa-
tion given at the time that Rothmans
Ltd of London was aiming to repeat in
Australia the operation which it had
started so successfully in South Africa.
The South African company, Rem-
brandt Tobacco Corporation, made a
profit in 1950, two years after establish-
ment, and had increased that profit by
nearly 400 p.c. in the following four
years.
Tn Australia Rothmans did not make a
A profit until 1957-58 two years after
(establishment and in 1961-62, despite
the “recession” and adverse publicity
about smoking, profit was increased by
400 p.c. The South African pattern had
been followed almost to the letter.
Naturally, Rothmans had to face
intense competition and as early as Sep-
Itember, 1958, the chairman of the board
made references to this in his address
to shareholders. It is apparent, never-
theless, that Rothmans managed to
| change smokers’ tastes, and today all
j manufacturers produce “King Size”
J cigarettes.
From the latest half yearly report
'covering the period to December 31,
1962, it would seem that Rothmans have
managed to maintain the position they
achieved about two years ago of supply-
-1 ing about half of the cigarette market
in Australia. Any closer analysis of
| the wealth of “percentage” statistics
produced by the cigarette manufacturers
would probably tend to be confusing,
but unless another manufacturer appears
on the scene with a revolutionary pro-
duct, it is difficult to see much change
in the present shares of the market held
by the established manufacturers.
Today, Rothmans has factories in
Sydney and Melbourne, sales offices in
each State, a re-drying plant at Bun-
damba (Q) and laboratories at Granville
(NSW). The factories worked at least
two full shifts throughout the year, and
it is claimed that each has a bigger out-
put than any other cigarette factory in
Australia.
future is perhaps difficult to assess.
The campaign against smoking
has become particularly virulent several
times in the post-war period, but prob-
ably reached an all time high about 12
months ago. The effect on the rapidly
growing teenage group, which would
normally be expected to provide future
cigarette smokers, is, as yet, uncertain.
The Australian work force is expected
to grow at the rate of 2\ p.c. to 3 p.c.
per annum over the next ten years, and
this group is probably comparable to
the smoking group. It may be thought
that cigarette sales could hardly increase
at a greater rate than this and that a
lower rate could be expected.
The company’s annual reports and
chairman’s addresses have always given
considerable information on the per-
centage of the market held, and also the
percentage increases in sales achieved
over the previous year. As the chair-
man pointed out in his last address
covering the 1961-62 year, some costs
incurred in handling the expansion of
the Australian tobacco crop are outside
their control.
The percentage of Australian tobacco
required to be used to qualify for lower
duty on imported tobacco has increased
over the period of the company’s opera-
tions, and no doubt this has had the
effect of reducing the net profit percent-
age of sales. It does seem that this per-
centage has been declining over the last
four years but the figures available
would make it difficult to be positive
on this point.
The relationship of net profit before
tax, depreciation and interest to total
capital employed (including in this latter
figure, advances from associated com-
panies and secured short-term loans), has
shown a tendency to decline over the
last two years, as has the earning rate
on average ordinary capital. These
factors point to a falling off in profit-
ability, but this should not be a matter
of concern because the extremely high
rates earned in 1958-59 and 1959-60
could hardly have been expected to con-
tinue indefinitely.
It is quite certain that Rothmans has
been generous to its shareholders. The
re-instatement of the 20 p.c. dividend
rate for the current year will mean that
dividend income to an investor who has
maintained a constant investment in the
shares will have increased by 284 p.c. in
four years, or at the average annual com-
pound rate of 36 p.c. This can only be
described as remarkable and has prob-
ably not been equalled by any other
major Australian company.
HThe above figures have been quoted
to illustrate what would appear to be
the company’s policy towards share-
holders and not to suggest that this rate
of growth can be maintained. The
decline in per share earnings over the
last two years makes it difficult to
suggest the rate of future growth in
dividend income until such time as it
becomes apparent that the trend is again
upwards.
The shares are therefore appropriately
priced at the present time for the con-
servative investor, but for one who is
prepared to pay a premium for dynamic
management, the price could go as high
as 45s.
BALANCE SHEET AND PROFIT STATEMENT
SUMMARIES (£'000)
Year ended
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 1905 3495 6601 11440 14653
Including:
Debtors 426 451 888 807 797
Stock 1456 2732 5485 10491 10932
Current
liabilities 1210 2157 5363 8289 6906
Working capital 695 1338 1238 3151 7747
Fixed assets 1110 1755 2955 4662 5205
Investments — 2 9 112 211
Intangibles 588 588 588 589 126
Total capital 2393 3683 4790 8514 13289
Represented by:
Loan capital 1391 1271 679 3745 7154
Ordinary
capital 750 1688 2531 2531 3797
Reserves 252 724 1580 2238 2338
Estimated operating
income 435 1214 2142 2683 3265
Earnings 252 684 1134 1179 1258
Ordinary dividend — 169 316 506 664
Surplus 252 515 818 673 594
Earnings oer share
(a) (shillings) 0.86 1.05 1.67 1.69 1.65
Operating income p.c.
total capital 31.0 50.8 58.2 56.1 38.4
Dividend yield
p.c. (b) — 2.9 2.7 5.0 4.8
Earnings yield
p.c. (b) 30.0 11.8 8.1 7.7 9.1
(a) Adjusted for bonus content in rights iosues and
on basis of present capital.
(b) Based on last sale in month accounts presented.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
The Recovery of Hoadleys
/Celebration of a 50th anniversary by
chocolate maker Hoadley’s Hold-
ings Ltd prompted a brief history of the
company in the latest annual accounts
to December, 1962.
It was founded by Abel Hoadley who,
in the 1860 s, began the commercial
manufacture of jam. He later sold this
to the Australian Jam Company in 1908
so that he could concentrate on choco-
late and confectionery.
While still small in terms of capital
(£75,000 in prefs and £481,500 in
ordinary shares, of which £135,000 is
held by the NSW subsidiary), the com-
pany has been a successful profit maker.
It has also been generous to shareholders
in dividends and capital benefits.
Building costs and supply difficulties
in the immediate post-war period delayed
a master plan for rebuilding until 1957,
which is now 70 p.c. completed, without
recourse to shareholders. Finance has
come from retained profits and £142,500
on p.c. mortgage, repayable in 1972.
In October, 1956, holders of each
3s. 4d. share were given three ss. shares
in exchange, and in November, 1961,
the holding company was formed by ex-
change of three new ss. shares for each
ss. share held in Hoadley’s Chocolates
Ltd.
The dividend for 1961 was reduced
correspondingly to 6i p.c., but an
interim 3? p.c. in October was followed
by a 61 p.c. final in April, 1963, in
respect of the 1962 year.
After prolonged negotiations, Hoad-
leys finalised arrangements in 1960 with
Chocolat Tobler of Switzerland for ex-
clusive manufacturing and distribution
rights in Australia.
Hoadley’s own range comprises Violet
Crumbles, Violet Milk Chocolates, Polly
Waffles, Tex Bar and White Knights,
plus a full range of confectionery.
The management declares that for the
first time in the company’s history
Hoadley’s has a forward order book,
and a considerable increase in sales is
expected for 1963. So far this year the
increase is “healthy.”
The whole of the new production area
in Melbourne is now completed, together
with a new warehouse and finished goods
store. Worthwhile savings in production
costs are being realised. All plant was
fully reconditioned where necessary and
installed with a view to easy mainten-
ance. The new office will be completed
during 1964.
The Adelaide subsidiary again was a
major profit contributor, although the
first floor of the new factory is still not
occupied owing to building difficulties.
The group no longer manufactures in
Sydney, but a new warehouse has been
erected at Leichhardt (Sydney), vyhich
has already shown considerable
economies.
Plans to extinguish the 540,000 ss.
shares held by the NSW subsidiary will
eradicate a source of confusion in the
group accounts.
By watching closely the changing
pattern in confectionery retailing, the
installation of new equipment, and the
association with the Swiss company,
Hoadley’s directors are assuring their
objects to win new markets, increase
production and maintain profitability.
At 14s. 3d. the 5s. shares are cheap
by 1962 standards, yet the savings in
costs and increased turnover point to
significantly higher earnings this year,
to make up much of the ground lost in
the last three years during reconstruc-
tion of production and distribution
facilities.
The income return of 3.5 p.c. and
earnings yield of 6.3 p.c. are both more
favorable than those obtaining from the
major confectioners, Life Savers and
James Stedman. Yet Hoadley’s com-
pactness is another item in its favor.
A purchase at present price or there-
abouts should appeal to the investor pre-
pared to forgo immediate income for the
sake of later benefits.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
December 31 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 423 401 384 523 457
Less current
liabilities 204 216 250 421 332
Working capital 219 185 134 102 125
Investments 15 15 21 27 24
Fixed assets 470 570 667 792 908
Intangibles — — — 189 206
704 770 822 1110 1263
Loan capital — — — 43 142
Preference capital 75 75 75 75 75
Ordinary capital 113 113 113 338 347
Reserves 516 582 634 649 699
704 770 822 1110 1263
Depreciation 32 36 37 42 51
Taxation 61 58 44 33 34
Net profit 86 93 80 62 68
Net profit
for ords. 80 87 74 56 62
Dividends 23 23 23 23 27
Surplus 57 64 51 33 35
Earning rate 71.6 77.8 66.3 16.7 13.0
Dividend rate 20 20 20 6§ 10
Dividend yield (a) 4.4 2.7 2.2 2.1
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 6.3 9.8 13.9 18.5
High (b) 22/- 33/- 48/- 47/6 16/6
Low (b) 15/6 22/- 19/9 38/- 15/-
(a) End of April, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
F. J. PALMER HOLDINGS LTD
Burden of the Big Bear
J. Palmer Holdings Ltd has lived
A to regret the day it ever went into
the supermarket field, for losses in-
curred on this venture have marred an
otherwise excellent profit-earning history.
The original business goes back to
1879 when the company began as a
hatter and men’s outfitter. It achieved
public company status soon after World
War I.
Since then, until the supermarket
venture, profits had always been earned
and there was an unbroken record of
dividends, even through the depression
years.
In 1950 the present holding company
was formed. It acquired all the issued
capital of F. J. Palmer and Son Ltd
resulting in an issued capital of £510,000
including £.30,000 in 9 p.c. pref. shares.
Since then there has been only one
issue to shareholders a one-for-two at
par in 1955. Capital has grown to the
present £1,607,881, including £30,000
in the 9 p.c. prefs. and £191,864 in
6 p.c. prefs., because of share issues
made during takeovers.
In 1958 the company took the fateful
decision to move into a new field and
acquired a lease of the old Neutral Bay
tram depot for a minimum of 10 years.
Nearly £500,000 was spent on re-


modelling and stocking the new store,
known as the Big Bear Supermarket.
The 1958-59 year saw Big Bear start
its drain on the group. Profit in that year
fell from £242,408 to £192,779 after
writing off £17,441 expenses incurred
in establishing the supermarket.
The following year trading losses and
establishment costs more than halved
profit to £95,500 and caused a cut in
dividend from 124 p.c., the rate paid for
three successive years, to 6 p.c. Even
so, the company had to call on reserves
for £1470 to meet the payment.
Following a reorganisation, the super-
market managed to show a profit of
£3102 in 1960-61, but overall group
profit showed a further decline, cover-
ing the reduced 44 p.c. dividend by only
£4Bl.
The worst year was in 1961-62 when
the supermarket went heavily into the
red and the group showed a loss of
£11,328, the first loss since formation.
In November last, directors took the
difficult, but wise, decision not to persist
with the venture and leased the major
portion of the building to Woolworths.
This involved a write-down of
£248,636 which was charged against
accumulated profit. Woolworths took
over the lease of the food market from
the beginning of February, Palmers con-
tinuing to run the men’s wear and boat-
ing section. Other sections of the build-
ing were let as individual variety stores.
Following this reorganisation, directors
expect the property to show an annual
profit from rentals.
With this no longer absorbing its
energies, the board has been able to
concentrate on the traditional business—
with obvious success. Results for the
first half of the current year show a
distinct overall improvement.
Accounts for the year ended July 31
last showed the effect of the writing
down of the Big Bear project. Lease-
hold properties and improvements which
appeared in 1960-61 at £153,924 were
written down £19,763. Other fixed
assets were down fractionally from
£2,182,549 to £2,117,989. Plant,
equipment, etc., were down from
£766,520 to £601,150.
Stock also showed a sharp fall, from
£1,621,980 to £1,454,809, but, reflecting
busier trading, debtors were up from
£746,698 to £811,465. Creditors were
down from £652,385 to £555,592, but
were more than offset by a rise in bank
overdraft from £857,690 to £995,159.
That year’s setback converted a credit
’ n the profit and loss account of
£-72,278 into a deficit of £10,398, but
otherwise reserves were in a healthy
state. Of total reserves and unappropri-
ated profits of £1,292,894, capital
reserves total £833,146.
Object to intangibles of £87,757,
chiefly goodwill of £85,211, net tangible
assets backing of the ss. ordinary share
was 9s. 4d.
The shares look decidedly cheap at
3s. 6d., particularly with this assets
backing, which could be even higher for
freehold is in the books at 1956 and
1958 valuations with additions at cost.
The main Pitt and Park St (Sydney)
store has often been rumored as an
attractive takeover prospect for next-
door neighbor Waltons Ltd or Lowes.
In addition it has 64 other retail outlets,
principally in NSW and Victoria.
Now that Big Bear is no longer a
liability to the group, the shares could
be worth picking up even if only on the
score of buying assets cheaply.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
July 31 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 1969 2146 2204 2434 2324
Less current
liabilities 1034 1244 1489 1839 1805
Working capital 935 902 715 595 519
Investments 23 17 15 59 96
Fixed assets 2401 2635 2913 3048 2739
Intangibles 76 78 81 81 88
3435 3632 3724 3783 3442
Represented by:
Pref. capital 222 222 222 222 222
Ord. capital 1374 1374 1386 1386 1386
Capital reserves 808 807 807 833 833
Other reserves 726 741 732 742 460
Loan funds 305 488 577 600 541
3435 3632 3724 3783 3442
Depreciation 64 65 79 82 94
Taxation 136 127 122 51 34
Net profit 242 193 96 77 Dr 11
Dividends 186 186 97 77 14
Surplus' 56 7 — — —
Earning rate p.c. 16.5 13.0 5.9 4.5 —
Dividend rate p.c. 12£ 12J 6 4£ —
Dividend yield (a) 8.0 7.4 5.7 5.6 —
High price (b) 10/- 10/6 9/9 5/- 5/-
Low price (b) 7/6 7/9 4/6 3/5 3/3
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
FENWICK HOLDINGS LTD
Five - year appreciation 330 p.c.
Shareholders of Fenwick Holdings
Ltd who participated in the original
issue in 1958 have seen their holding of
100 shares grow to 267 in less than five
years and show a capital appreciation of
330 p.c.
The company operates a fleet of tug-
boats in Sydney, Newcastle and Port
Kembla.
The original company began nearly
100 years ago, servicing sailing ships,
and since then its tugs have handled
some of the largest ships m the world.
It has always been well to the fore in
introducing modern tugs and keeps its
fleet in first-class condition. In 1950 it
introduced the first commercial oil burn-
ing tug to operate in NSW and in 1956
the first diesel engined tug.
The fleet at present consists of eight
vessels —four diesel, two oil burners and
two coal burners. Continuous moderni-
sation of the fleet has kept maintenance
costs to a minimum and contributed to
the high rate of profit. Since 1958 this
has risen from 31.9 p.c. to 48.9 p.c. in
1960-61 and last year after a bonus
issue it was 27.9 p.c. In these five years
shareholders have received less than one-
third of the profit in dividends, the re-
mainder being ploughed back into re-
serves. Dividends have riser, from 5 p.c.
in 1958 to 124 p.c. in the next three
years and then after the bonus 10 p.c.
Capital has been lifted from the orig-
inal flotation figure of <£150,000 to
£400,000 in ss. ordinary shares by two
cash issues (2 for 5 at Is. 3d. premium in
1960, and 1 for 3 at 2s. 6d. premium
last year) and a 3 for 7 bonus in 1961.
The latest accounts show a very strong
reserves position. Capital reserves of
£lOO,OOO make up a little over 20 p.c.
of total reserves and surplus profit of
£498,172. Subject to intangibles (good-
will of £175,000) net tangible assets
backing of each ss. share is 9s.
Included in the reserves is a figure of
£150,000 for increased cost of fleet re-
placement. This amount should go close
to replacing one vessel, foi the whole
fleet appears in the books at £808,728
after providing £172,567 for deprecia-
tion.
The company at June 30 last was in a
sound position, although slightly less
liquid. Trade creditors showed a frac-
tional increase while debtors were down
a little. However, cash balance of
£45,885 was reduced to an overdraft of
£47,231.
Actual profit figure for 1961-62 fell


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. VV. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTtOO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines; No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
from £102,779 to £90,680, due princi-
pally to higher costs, mainly wages. But
the company should do better in the cur-
rent year. In the first six months it
maintained its gross tonnage figure, but
since then Sydney Harbor has handled a
record volume of shipping and Fenwick,
as one of the major tug operators, must
stand to benefit.
At present the shares are selling around
15s. 3d. to show a dividend yield of
about 3.3 p.c. and an earnings yield of
9.2 p.c. They could go higher.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962
Fixed assets 379 425 544 816
Current assets 25 42 92 44
Investments 22 33 33 61
Intangibles 50 50 175 175
Total assets 476 550 844 1096
Less current liabilities 136 158 157 198
Shareholders' funds 340 392 637 898
Represented by
Capital 150 150 210 400
Capital reserves — — 140 100
Other reserves 190 242 337 398
340 392 687 898
Depreciation 14 22 21 28
Taxation 35 46 76 61
Profit 61 72 103 91
Dividend 19 19 26 33
Replacement reserve 20 30 50 50
Surplus 22 22 27 3
Dividend p.c. 12J 12J 12| 10
Earning rate p.c. 40.7 47.7 48.9 27.9
Dividend yield (a) 3.8 3.9 2.1 2.6
High price (b) 18/6 26/6 33/- 33/-
Low price (b) 9/6 15/- 16/6 15/9
(a) October, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
The Bulletin Advisory Service
From a large number of readers' letters seeking "The
Bulletin's" advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication. The balance have been answered personally.
Listed below are my total holdings,
which 1 have acquired over ten years,
with very little selling, as I preferred to
watch them grow:
125 APM shares, average cost 215.;
100 Associated Pulp preference 205.;
300 Ampol 13s. 6d.; 700 BHP 225. 6d.;
600 Cox Bros 65.; 750 Cottees 9s. 2d.;
130 Freighters 13s. 4d.; 200 Great
Western 10s.; 1000 G. J. Coles 135.; 250
H. C. Sleigh 11s. 6d.; 500 Model Dairies
7s. 6d.; 200 Moran and Cato 235. 6d.;
300 Olympic Bs.; 100 Pendene prefs at
205.; 200 Rocla Pipes 13s. 2d.; 120
Tulloch 18s. 4d.; 240 Woolw orths
17s. 7d.; 100 Sutex 4s. lOd.
Will you comment on the balance of
my portfolio, for capital growth? Should
1 have more BHP at the present price?
Should 1 have some oil? J. O’D.,
Aspendale {Vic.).
For a medium-size portfolio, yours has
some unnecessary duplication, such as
Coles and Woolworths, Ampol and H.
C. Sleigh. You are well represented in
food and chain retailing, but are light
on basic manufacturers.
We generally favour buying BHP at
present prices, but as you already have
a fair parcel, why not look at John Ly-
saght at around 625. 6d.?
Great Western are so low it hardly
matters whether you hold or sell.
You already have an indirect interest
in oil search through Ampol and Sleigh.
If you wanted a more immediate interest
there is Planet Oil NL ss. shares paid
to 3s. This company is about to drill on
a very interesting structure at Warrinilla,
north of Roma in Queensland. Any
further calls of capital are deductible for
tax purposes.
Tulloch yet may be revived, for it has
good contracts in hand, but you may
never recover your costs here.
Sutex and Freighters have not proved
good stocks, and we would be inclined
to get out of these.
If APM shares rise you might consider
taking a profit. (They were 265. 9d. at
the end of January). This company needs
permanent tariff protection, precluding
it from the growth stock class.
We do not feel your two preference
shareholdings satisfy your requirements
of growth, and would advise you to sell.
Cox Bros always seems to just survive
retailing and credit crises, and we would
not consider them a growth stock for
long term holding.
★ ★ ★
Last year l bought 1000 Davies Coop
shares at 2s. lid. in the hope of a re-
covery. So far the company has only
been able to make a small profit. Could
you tell me what will happen when the
preference shares mature? — M.E.,
Leeton (NSW).
Davies Coop has no redeemable
preference shares. You probably have
in mind the £1,136,036 in 7 p.c. notes
which convert at par to ordinary shares
on December 31, 1963. This will in-
crease paid capital (including preference
capital) to £4,645,337. The 1963 con-
vertible notes are sluggish, indicating
the lack of confidence in the company's
ability to pay dividends on the increased
capital in 1964.
The convertible noteholders have no
option to take cash instead of ordinary
shares.
The company recently reported that it
had operated for the six months to
December at break-even point. Frankly
we think you would be wise to cut your
losses, as the company appears to be
over-capitalised under current competit-
ive conditions.
I>ECAUSE of an increasing flood
** of letters, pressure of space
and the time needed for investiga-
tion, THE BULLETIN has been
unable to answer many inquiries
from readers on their investment
problems. Every effort, however,
is being made to overtake the lee-
way.
SURFACE COATING
Opebra Products Manufacturing
Company, Inc., Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia, wants to appoint a distributor to
handle its “Protectit” brand of surface
coating.
This product provides a stainless steel
tank lining and maintenance coating,
offering the advantages of a stainless
steel surface at a nominal cost. It is
particularly designed for beverage and
food industries.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: KENNETH BARRATT. TAKE NOTICE
that EVE MAY BARRATT (formerly Eve May
Cooper) has filed a Petition No. 3832 of 1962
for divorce, on the grounds of desertion and
separation. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 31st day of
May, 1963, and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. EBSWORTH &
EBSWORTH, Solicitors, of 247 George Street,
Sydney.— C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Missing Persons
Would any person having any knowledge
of the whereabouts of ALEXANDER THOMAS
SMITH, known as Tom Smith and sometimes
as Bob Smith or Robert Smith, aged 43 years,
formerly of Charleville, whose last known
address (10 years ago) was 70 Fawkner Street,
South Yarra, Melbourne, please communicate
witr J. F. STEPHENSON & DUTNEY, Soli-
citors, Alfred Street, Charleville, who desire to
locate him in connection with his late
father’s estate.
ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Old, J. A. M. Minnett, M. A. Gleeson-
White, lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft,
R. V. Betts
Non-Member Partners
13-15 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
Tel. 25 5711, 25 6011. Telex 5243
Branches at:
150 Queen St., Melbourne
359-369 Queen St., Brisbane
Cables & Telegrams:
‘Orderley’ Sydney, Melbourne & Brisbane
INVESTMENTS WANTED
FOR GENUINE CLIENTS
WITH CASH £15,000 to £50,000.
SHOPS (Inner Sub.),
FLATS (could be older Bldg.),
CITY PROPERTIES
SPEEDY INSPECTIONS —SALES ASSURED
S. KLIGER & CO., PTY. LTD.
406 Lonsdale St., Melbourne
67-2587 67-5457
Safety Belts for
Farmers
A lthough a far greater percentage of
motor accidents occur in metro-
politan areas, a higher percentage of
fatalities occur in the country. The
reason is, of course, that the country-
man, with long distances to cover on
open roads, travels much faster than
the city man, who is restricted by traffic
and by speed limits.
The country driver is therefore apt to
be travelling much faster in the event
of a mishap; his car is likely to strike
an immovable object at a higher velo-
city, or to roll more times than a car in-
volved in a city accident.
The countryman faces the additional
hazards of bad roads, no lighting, and
the chance encounter with livestock.
It is not surprising, then, that the
Federation of Automotive Products
Manufacturers is campaigning to empha-
size the protection and advantages which
safety belts offer the countryman.
Statistics prove that safety belts will
save, at a minimum, 35 p.c. of
deaths and major injuries, and 60 p.c.
of all types of injuries.
On the twisty, bumpy roads and
tracks found in the country, safety belts
prove their value, and enable the driver
to keep greater control.
Safety belts can be fitted effectively
to every four-wheeled vehicle on the
road, including tractors. Most crawler
and wheeled tractor fatalities could be
avoided by the combined use of a roll-
bar and a safety belt. -
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
Technicians for China
Sir,
Responsible woolgrowers have read
with misgiving Mr W. J. Vines’ state-
ment that “the International Wool
Secretariat was examining the possibility
of enabling Communist China to estab-
lish a modern wool textile industry” by
“sending wool technicians to mainland
China to work with Communist Chinese
authorities.”
Last year members of the IWS had
planned to visit Peking for this purpose,
but on the outbreak of the Sino-Indian
war this visit was postponed indefinitely.
The reason given was lack of time.
It seems incredible that the IWS should
entertain, even for one moment, the idea
of giving economic aid for the produc-
tion of a strategic material such as wool
to a totalitarian regime, the official policy
of which is war and expansion by revolu-
tionary violence and which is guilty of
aggression against India, a fellow-mem-
ber of the Commonwealth, in a con-
flict which is not yet resolved.
JAMES TEHAN
Maindample.
Feiffer
imi
6UESS
THAT'S
IT.
I
5a
1«S
W>TH|WS
MORF To
14
THFPFf,
#>■l
6UBS
THATS
IT
IdHAT WF HAP
MS THFMOST
PFRFFCT emu-
lence of m
in. s
mse FAST
Five - MWTHS
WILL Rg'MAlKi
WTO MF
T U I Pl£
BFT THS
MOMFMT IS
UO
PRETEUPIU6
10 OURSELVES-
ITS Dot /?!6HT
AWMORff. I't7
611/f ALMOST
ALMTHIU6 IF IT
weße piFFFPeur
fw met (4
BRSAIOU6 Buf
ITS RSIWTFKS
A6AIUf
m ums-w
vetTßucwe But
JWAUT to. I mi
10 MORE THAU
mim6 in w
UIORiP- /
i mr to
kiso. dVT
oje wu,
kMM ITS
ottiks.
5<5 2
THATS
it
/
w-
\
me
I


People are talking
about the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney
NAME
ADDRESS.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
229 Weet 43rd Street, N'EW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick -y' whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? □ ° r
A renewal subscription? □
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
months subscription to THE BULLETIN.
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN 'by ordering it each week? More
.and more people are buying the "new look"
BULLETIN for its features, its overseas and local news,
its columnists like Boadicea, Discus, Cellarmaster, its
reviews of films, books, music and theatre. If you
want to keep abreast of news and significant events
in Australia and abroad TH£ BULLETIN is a must. In
addition THE BULLETIN, will feature this year a series
of four-page full color features on Australian art and
other subjects. So why not fill in the form at left and
be sure of your copy each week?
The
Bulletin
A magazine of facts and Ideas est. 1880.
ON SALE WEDNESDAYS —2/-
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 743
ACROSS
I—Plenty punishment. (8)
4—Mind, Topsy cheats too much for that. (6)
9—Observe group principles kick the shared tele-
phone. (3, 3,5, 4)
11— Beast of mob nerve sheaths. (9)
12— When the betting’s one for one nightfall’s figure
if the last shall be first. (5)
13— A place to have drinks on one colleague in a
lordly way. (10)
15—Drink location. (4)
19— They’re to be seen with East
and no contradiction. (4)
20— Skylight brace like Lunt and
Fontaine, Castor and Pollux.
(4, 6)
22—Rroken plate with a floral
feature. (5)
24—An Indian quilt crazy about
some skin opening. (9)
26 Most of 14-down to curve
his tee’s republicans. (4-11)
27 What makes a lot of stars
far from strict in the name
of the author of “The Beg-
gar’s Opera”? (6)
28— Ran into two boys with a
regular rhythmical beat. (8)
DOWN
1— Fired one Hollywood celeb-
rity, recently dead, this
being amenable to court
action. (9)
2 It may help one’s breathing
when batting with Henry
Emmet. (8)
3 An Egyptian. (5)
5 A small pen has a pig-pen
tenanted. (6)
6 See, citrus has 151 ahead of
me, this being the general
character of the weather.
(5)
7 Sewer damaged pitchers. (5)
8— Holds the art of such a
fighter. (8)
10—A retired hospital worker.
(2-5)
14 —Athenian of Shakespeare in
any element. (8)
16 and 17—A small, active and
furtive carnivore is attacked
by father? (3, 4,3, 6)
18—Dress with an anaesthetic in
company. (8)
21— Dramatic highpoint evident
from Peru’s capital in 110.
(6)
22 Crash the small piano;
sounded like a bell. (5)
23 Just the sum for Baby Jol-
son. (5)
25—Ridge spoilt music of mourn-
ing. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 742


me
. -
mm-
■
'
>i:'
s%■>
m
I
y,w
fee***
wff
m mi
v-l
-•-
P
m
« 41* m
m
i
i
* *
K a * 4
«*
P Pt
k'
■ ■
P
m
*
I
SH®*
-
m
1
3*
%
■ -:
-
■
M
%
Ml
Ml
%
p
Kl
£ I«
%
Si
m
■
■ :
m hslss
.
.X
for hale and hearty appetites . . .
Australia can make it
£822 million worth of processed foods a year!
Almost eleven million people take a lot of
feeding. Their appetites keep 113,000 people
employed in the Australian Processed Foods
Industry. This is quite apart from the
thousands producing meat and other basic
foods in primary industry. Australia produces
an enormous quantity and range of processed
foods. Supermarket shelves and freezer cabi-
nets are stacked with Australian canned, pre-
served, packaged and frozen foods. We are
fortunate that, in a world where many go
hungry, Australia can produce more than
enough food for our needs. You keep things
this way when you continue to buy Australian-
made products. So when you’re
shopping look first for quality
and value in Australian pro-
cessed foods. The wise Aus-
tralian buys Australian.
t
AUSTRALIAN
MADE
msfirtßrt hv ASSfir.IATFD r.HAMRFRS OF MANUFACTIIBFS OF AIISTRAI .A


lISMBIs
.
t£>»~»VtNEYAR£>S i
- Wi m
I
.
m
ssueTto
lanuHQ
■ ; ■ ■
« m
ms
CAWARRA
CLARET
m
UNO6MAS L r>
SYBttVft
f#S* <«*<*<">«
W* ft** W*> :
■
jj *s*feqE?
mm
i
*■ -a*.
;
ssw
Cfegr-V. ..
Hlected vi r
N
HOCK
K> . Pf-©C*UCQ tT
EI*AN LTD.
CONTENTS tPT SFU oi »
CAWARRA
A noble wine for a noble roast! Cawarra Claret, the most
popular red table wine in Australia, was selected exclusively
by the French Olympic Team on their visit to Melbourne.
When you choose white wine order Cawarra Riesling,
dry, delicate and delightful in every way.
/mde
marts
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
