

The Bulletin
JULY 20, 1963
Australia 2/-, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1
AFT-AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION -EST.IBBO
★ JIM CAIRNS-LABOR'S NEW LEADER? by Alan Reid


mm
_ .
m ms
i %■
1958 s
...
:
Km who
,
'
Y c v
BA
c
RET
lOTft{fi $r
<$ d* JLI i !
lUM| A ViNEYAROS. Af«G ASTON SA • fcj.
Cl- r
yp 3
' ,V
441 >Jr
SMilkl 3 v
•**•**■» *RT%*u* ■ ••>»>*;< i c,«
*
*S>,
~«€
There’s no more exacting master than Traditioi ;
The Yalumba tradition began with Samuel Smith who, in 1849, founded a vineyard to produce
wines equal to any in the world. A claret born of these concepts is Yalumba Galway Vintage.
Blended from Cabernet Sauvignon and Shiraz varieties, Galway Vintage is an elegant, yet
delightfully light, claret. Connoisseurs seek it out. Royal Show judges honour its quality. Galway
Vintage Claret, by Yalumba, is indeed worth asking for.
YALUMBA CLARET
S. Smith and Son Limited, Yalumba Vineyards, Angaston, South Australia
This wine selector tells you more
about the range of Yalumba
Wines, suggests when to enjoy
them. Like one? Free upon re-
quest to Yalumba. N.S.W. readers
may inquire direct to the state
distributors, O’Malley and Morris
Pty. Ltd., 40 Ennis Road, Milson's
Point, Sydney. Phone 92 7076.
4
mwutwiamv!


■ERIC fIMDERSOH
(CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
m
I».W
12 mths. p.a. 2 years 7% p.a.
3 years 7\% p.a. 4 years 8% p.a.
5 years p.a. 10 years B|% p.a.
Trustee for Debenture Stockholders:—
P. T. PTY. LIMITED, a wholly owned subsidiary
of PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application referred to in and attached to a printed copy
of the Prospectus. Prospectus may be obtained from and
applications lodged with Any Branch in New South
Wales or the Australian Capital Territory and any City
or Suburban Branch in Brisbane, Queensland, of the
following Banks:—
* THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LTD.
* BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
or at
* ERIC ANDERSON (CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED,
125 York Street, Sydney.
* ERIC ANDERSON RADIO-TELEVISION PTY. LIMITED,
Any Branch in Sydney, Suburbs, Wollongong, Pt. Kemble,
Canberra, Queanbeyan and Newcastle.
* PACKARD BELL PTY. LIMITED
Any Branch in Brisbane, Suburbs and Country
* ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE,
Eft
Underwriting Brokers: RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
° 20 O'CONNEU STREET, SYDNEY
OR POST THIS COUPON TO:
ERIC ANDERSON (CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
125 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
Please post me, without obligation, a copy of your
prospectus to:
NAME
ADDRESS
Page
IAL4YSIA 24
5,000,000 Uneasy Chinese
9
How to Lose Friends in Asia .... 7
Dr Cairns: The Canberra Enigma 15
The Swingin’ Handl 21
The Murray River Boats Tie Up . 23
Migrants Who Are Not Christians 29
End of the Satire Cult? 35
Henry James: The Great
Misogynist 49
West Wind How 7 to Write Best-
Sellers 41
A Big Gunn in Wool 44
Industry’s Role in Malaysia 45
Transport Problems of the ’Sixties 50
Vigor in the Markets 51
•
TANNER . 6
THIS AUSTRALIA 7
80 YEARS AGO 8
PLAIN ENGLISH 12
OUT AND A HOLT 21
OVERSEAS 24
I’OR LAI 29
AROUND MELROURNE ... 32
LETTERS 33
REVIEWS 35
FEIFFER 39
RED PAGE 40
MAN ON THE LAND 44
WORLD OF RUSINESS .... 45
CROSSWORD 62
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone 27 5971.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone 2 0666 Ext. 380.
Vol. 85
No. 4353


KEEP DOG-EARS
OUTOF YOUR FILES
Who really wants a dismal canine on the payroll?
Dog-eared files, ledgers, tickets and cards tell a
sad, sad story of apathy and inefficiency to the
man on the other side of the desk. So—DOWN,
Cleo! Call in Shoalhaven, manufacturers of the
finest boards and papers that ever kept dog-ears
out of the office. Paper is one of the prestige items
in business budgets. Yet, unfortunately, few busi-
nessmen know the basics of paper selection. But
now Shoalhaven Advisory Centres throughout
Australia are at their service. And yours! Staffed
by friendly people who are ready, willing and
able to put anyone in the picture about paper.
If you’ve a paper problem, large or small, call
your Shoalhaven Advisory Centre now. We’ll
gladly advise . . . and supply samples of Shoal-
haven papers and boards. To help meet Australia’s
growing paper needs, production is being trebled
at the Shoalhaven Mill this year. New buildings,
new machines, new papers not previously manu-
factured in Australia! Wiggins Teape Shoalhaven
Mill is on the move with a £7 million mill
expansion programme. When choosing paper
and boards for office systems, be sure to specify
Shoalhaven for constant quality, constant supply.
<2^
dHd d d
AJh I 1 ft S
a S Wmm m m
The extensive Shoalhaven range includes varying
grades of papers and boards for office systems
Glory Index Boards, Tablex Systems Boards, Conqueror
Ledger, Stronghold Ledger, Manchester Ledger,
Sortaspeed Cheque, Circle Security Cheque, Leader
Azure Laid Ledger, Leader Machine Posting Ledger.
WIGGINS TEAPE SHOALHAVEN PTY. LTD.
For advice on any paper
problem just ring . . .
SHOALHAVEN
ADVISORY
CENTRE
SYDNEY 51-6651
MELBOURNE 67-8428
ADELAIDE 51-4531
BRISBANE 4-4471
PERTH 21-9418
C'SIM


National Notebook
Stealing More and Enjoying it
Less • • •
/Cigarette stealing seems to be develop-
ing into an efficient, large-scale
industry. In NSW annually £lOO,OOO
worth of cigarettes are stolen from dis-
tributors and manufacturers and no one
knows how many go from retailers. In
Victoria the Tobacco Association is
worried that insurance companies may
refuse to provide cover against cigarette
thefts.
Sometimes warehouses are broken into.
At other times a driver takes his loaded
van home, and in the morning, in spite
of burglar alarms and other pre-
cautions, the van has been hi-jacked or
the contents taken. In fact, as someone
in the trade said, “nothing will stop
them.”
Despite their bulk and the transport
and storage problems involved, it has
proved hard to track down the vast
quantities of cigarettes being stolen. The
trade believes there is an established
market for stolen cigarettes. Mixed in
with regularly invoiced stock, their de-
tection is well-nigh impossible.
The thieves are very sophisticated in
their choice of brands. According to the
association they have a keen understand-
ing of the relative popularity of different
cigarettes and regulate their choice
accordingly “It is almost as if they were
fulfilling firm orders placed for specified
brands to be delivered on a firm date,”
the association said sadly.
Sing Joyfully
IVTe heard that Negro gospel singer
Brother John Sellers liked Australia
well enough to w'ant to stay here, so,
we went to talk to him at his King’s
Cross service flat. He greeted us cau-
tiously. There was no handshake, no
friendly grin.
Sellers is tall, slim and his brown face
is keenly intelligent. He slumped in a
chair. “Ask me any questions you
want,” he said, his voice rich with the
lilt and cadence of the Southerner. We
asked whether it was true he intended
staying here.
“Good God no,” he said, “I’m going
back due in New York around
October.”
He said he liked it well enough here.
“But there’s anti-colored feeling here,
too,” he said. “I’ve met it. I was in a
cafe in Pitt Street and there were these
people sitting near me. They . . .” he
waved it away, “Oh, they had something
to say and I knew it was aimed at me.
“I was born in the heart of the South,
at Charlesdale, Mississippi, in 1924. My
family belonged to the Sanctified Church
that’s the Holy Rollers and I was
reared on gospel songs. I began singing
and learning them when I was a boy.
Never recall a time I wasn’t singing
gospel songs.” He said the members of
his church followed what was written in
the Psalms, “and ye shall praise the
Lord with dancing, and cymbals and
horns and drums and clap your hands.”
“We sing joyfully, like this.” He lifted
his voice and sang a few bars of gospel
music. “I sang in baseball parks, concert
halls, big gospel festivals. Back in 1951
there were 75,000 people at one place
I sang. Sister Rosetta Tharpe took me
in hand. She was the one who began
calling me ‘Little Brother,’ and now
everyone calls me ‘Brother John.’ That’s
the custom in my church.”
We asked Brother John whether he
considered himself still a religious man.
He nodded, “Sure I’m religious, but I
don’t go to any special church. When
I’m in New York 1 go to a Catholic
church round the corner. The priest is
a friend of mine. I have Jewish friends,
all kinds of friends.”
What are his views on the current
Negro unrest? “That,” he said, “was
written in the Bible. ‘The black races
shall rise up.’ That’s what’s happening.
You’ve got this feeling against colored
people everywhere. But I call every man
my brother. Only in France I’ve never
met any discrimination. The French
don’t care what color you are. That’s
why so many Negroes have settled there.
But I’ll never live anywhere but in the
United States. The gospel singing is a
living thing.
“People can stand oppression just so
long,” he said, “then they bust out. But
don’t think the only prejudice is between
white and colored. There’s prejudice
between Methodists and Baptists and
between different colored people them-
selves. I’ve never had any. I can even
joke about it. I have these Jewish
friends and we go out together and laugh
about the whole thing. You move around
enough you forget prejudice and the
color of a man’s skin.” j
Christian Unity Adelaide
Style
\ mong fund-raising projects going for-
ward in Adelaide at present is one
on behalf of the Young Christian Work-
ers’ Training Centre at Stirling. Target
figure is £IO,OOO and to raise it Catho-
lics are planning an ambitious round
of social functions which will culminate
in a Festival of Youth in October.
Naturally, alcohol will be served at
some of the social functions. But along
with the announcement of such functions
has gone a quiet but firm fiat forbidding
members of the YCW, whose ages range
from 18 to 25, to attend them. The
ruling is seen as a reinforcement of a
previous restriction on drinking by mem-
bers of the organisation.
Those of them who are over 21 have
reason to be confused by the ambivalence
in their being refused the right to par-
take of social pleasures, organised to
raise funds for their training centre.
Students of straws in the wind, how-
ever, wonder if the fiat indicates that
the Catholic Church authorities in Ade-
laide, following overtures from the Pro-
testant Churches, might abandon their
neutral position and declare themselves
against those who are seeking a relaxa-
tion of the city’s drinking ordinances.
Sour Note
A letter to The Bulletin from
Norman Miller of Toowoomba,
Queensland, records his pleasure at
praise by visiting violinists Tibor Varga
and Ruggiero Ricci of violins made by
Mr Miller, which they used for public
performance here. However, Mr Miller
points out that their enthusiasm for the
home-made, hand-made violin is not
shared by the Taxation Commissioner.
“I do not sell enough instruments a
year to warrant sales tax on them,” Mr
Miller writes, “but the Taxation Com-
missioner adds the sale of them to my
gross earnings as a photographer and
so demands sales tax on the violins.
Musical instruments generally are sales-
taxed 12+ per cent of 60 per cent of
their cost price. The tax demand on us,
the amateur maker, is one-ninth of the
full retail price.
“It takes at least 100 hours to make
a violin by hand. These instruments are
works of art, comparable to sculpture
and painting. On imported instruments
from Japan and Europe, mostly made by
mechanical means, squished out by the


dozen, like mudguards for motor cars,
factory frauds in the same category as
oleographed copies of great paintings,
the tax burden is only half as great.
Long live Australia!”
Out of Date
TPhe Launceston Bank for Savings,
founded in 1835 and the oldest
savings bank in the British Common-
wealth outside the UK, has had its head
office completely remodelled, but it
operates under legislation almost as old
as itself.
This was noted last week by the
Administrator, Chief Justice Sir Stanley
Burbury, when he opened the new
premises. The Act of 1848 which char-
tered it stood as much in need of reno-
vation as the old premises, Sir Stanley
observed. Section 12, he had recently
discovered, laid down that a dispute be-
tween the bank and a customer had
to be referred to the Governor, who
would appoint a barrister to adjudicate.
This lawyer for his services was to “be
paid a fee not exceeding the sum of
one guinea.” The Act is very out of date.
Learning about Life
LTow far can you go in schools in
teaching psychology, morals, and
the facts of life? The question is being
debated in secondary school teachers’
common rooms in Victoria following the
adoption by the Education Department
of a new course under the title, “Health.”
The department plans to introduce
the course on a pilot basis in some Mel-
bourne schools next year. It is planned
to begin on a regular basis in first forms
of all secondary schools in 1965, working
its way up year by year until “Health”
is being taught throughout the first four
forms. A provisional textbook has been
prepared. On the basis of an outline of
the course, most teachers don’t like it.
The stated aim of the course is to
educate young people to avoid in later
life such problems as coronary disease,
alcoholism, mental illness, maladjust-
ment, ulcers, and stress disorders. It is
claimed that the course will help students
establish “healthy living patterns” and
eventually reduce illness in the com-
munity generally.
All very laudable in theory, say the
teachers. But is it a teacher’s business to
lecture 12-year-olds in Form I about
“essentials in meeting all the tests of
life,” “preparation for parenthood,” and
“family problems”? Should he be called
upon to talk to Form 2 classes about
reproduction or factors affecting the
family: or to Form 3 about “family
stresses,” homemaking and parenthood?
What teacher wants to give classroom
instruction to irreverent 16-year-olds on
“understanding yourself during adoles-
cence,” and inter-personal and family
relationships during adolescence?
There is alarm in the teaching service
about the prospect of lecturing about
personal and family problems to classes
mathematically certain to include some
students with seamy home backgrounds,
“ **
room discussion< Both the Victorian
Teac hers’ Union and the Secondary
Schools Teachers’ Association have
lodged objections with the Education
Department
.
11S Weeks Lover
m HE cover picture of Mr Jim Cairns>
MHR for Yarra, was taken by
Jonathon Evetts at Mr Cairns’s electoral
office Mr Cairns’s current reading an
partly is ToreigS Aid and S’ De-
fence of South-East Asia” and “The
New Leaders of Africa.” The picture
is a Kathe Kollwitz print. An exhibi-
tion of Kollwitz’s work is to be held
at the Art Gallery of NSW.
Tanner
"It'S good to see a revival of interest in the monarchy."


ir
s
THE
COONAWARRA ESTATE
The vineyard and the old stone
cellars are in the care of dedicated
men who have retained many of
the traditional hand-methods in
carefully producing Australia’s
finest table wines.
Each bottle is marked with its
vintage year and carries a back
label clearly showing where the
Estate is located.
COONAWARRA ESTATE* CLARET is
made from the original Shiraz
(Hermitage) vineyard.
COONAWARRA ESTATE CABERNET
is vintaged from 70 acres of the
rare Cabernet Sauvignon.
COONAWARRA ESTATE RIESLING
comes from a new vineyard of
Rhine Riesling.
*“Estate" (a. 5 the word “ Chateau" in France) is used to
distinguish the wine as being the genuine product of the
winegrowers' own vineyard.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors: S. WYNN & CQ.PTY.LTD.
THIS AUSTRALIA
PRESS
How to Lose Friends
in Asia?
First Harwich , then Davidson ...
FROM PETER POLOMKA IN KUALA LUMPUR
C. W. DAVIDSON
Cliches
the second time in about as many
I months, the “Australian image”
abroad as projected by visiting poli-
ticians has received an unnecessary
setback. The occasion was the arrival
of the 13 strong, fact-finding Parlia-
mentary delegation led by the Post-
Master General, Mr C. W. Davidson.
According to reporters waiting for
them at the airport, rarely has a more
obviously travel-weary, dishevilled
group debarked at the terminal. Press
statements at the time were also un-
inspiring, confirming rather than eras-
ing first impressions. Consequently, the
party’s arrival caused little more than
a polite ripple in news pages next day.
Worse public relations were to come.
Two days later, Mr Davidson decided
to hold an 8 p.m. Press conference.
The party returned at 6.30 p.m. from
a flight to Malacca, and members were
immediately whisked away for a brief-
ing at the residency of the Australian
High Commissioner, Mr T. K. Critch-
ley. At 8 p.m. while reporters were al-
ready waiting in a hotel suite some
distance away for the scheduled con-
ference, Mr Davidson was still at the
residency. Fortunately, the courtesy
(and patience) of the reporters kept
them waiting until Mr Davidson finally
appeared at 8.40 p.m., though by 9 p.m.,
most were probably wondering why.
Mr Davidson got in first by saying
he would answer no questions on policy.
Possibly he would have been more hon-
est if he had said he wished to answer
no questions at all, for this is the im-
pression he gave. At no stage, in fact,
did he ask reporters if they had any
questions. Instead, when he had finished
his prepared statement, he stood up as
if to end the conference. Copies of this
statement (six for 11 reporters) arrived
even later than Mr Davidson. While
awaiting their arrival, Mr Davidson filled
in with “generalities”, as he called them.
These turned out to be mainly points he
remembered from the prepared statement,
so when this arrived he realised there
was little point in reading it out.
As it happened, there was probably
little point in handing it out either. The
statement was mainly a collection of
well worn cliches, loosely strung to-
gether: “We have seen evidence of a
deep interest in and a warm friendship
for the people of Australia”, Australia
is following with great interest and sym-
pathy the progress of this young and
vigorous country”, “We had frank and
most useful discussions”, etc.
Apart from a run on the Government
controlled Radio Malaya, the statement
(and conference) were generally ignored,
not even rating a single paragraph in
most papers. Perhaps Mr Leslie Haylen,
deputy-leader of the delegation, who was
present but presumably under orders
not to speak, best summed up the un-
happy event when he was overheard
telling the Australian Press Attache: “As
a former journalist, my heart bleeds for
you.”
Following so closely on the cloak-and-
daggerish affair of the Minister for Ex-
ternal Affairs, Sir Garfield Barwick,
here earlier, the Press (and eventually
the public) must indeed be wondering
how seriously Australia wants to make
an impact in these parts. Sir Garfield
passed through the Federal capital on
his return from the GATT conference
in Paris, making a detour to a nearby
holiday resort where the Malayan Prime
Minister. Tengku Abdul Rahman, hap-
pened to be at the time.
Reporters knew he was returning to
Kuala Lumpur late in the day to fly
to Singapore and they were anxious to
see him. The Australian High Commis-
sion at one stage promised a Press con-
ference, though it was vague about his
movements. But since Sir Garfield had
booked a seat on a regular commercial
flight to Singapore, more than a dozen
reporters waited at the terminal. When
the Minister still hadn’t appeared min-
utes before the flight was due to leave,
one of them became suspicious and
checked the Royal Malayan Air Force
tarmac some hundreds of yards away.
Sure enough, in almost pitch darkness,
Sir Garfield was just about to board an
Air Force Cessna.
By then, the general alarm had gone
out and a horde of pressmen descended
on the plane, at the run, through the
dark. Sir Garfield was obviously upset
and unable to compose himself. When
the chief reporter for American Asso-
ciated Press in South-east Asia asked
why he would not speak to reporters in
Kuala Lumpur when he had done so
willingly enough in a number of other
places en route from Paris, Sir Garfield
snapped: “You impertinent young man!”
One point apparently often not ap-
preciated by visiting Australians, is that


the Federal capital (soon to become the
Malaysian capital) is quickly becoming
a major news centre in South-east Asia.
Most news agencies have either already
established their main regional head-
quarters here. Therefore each unneces-
sary incident must eventually make its
mark. The pity of it all is that local re-
porters have a high standard of in-
tegrity and a keen sense of fair play.
BUSINESS
Sydney or the Bush!
Who’s Who and Why in Restrictive Practices
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
T>oth city and country interests are
still running true to form in show-
ing their widely differing attitudes to
Sir Garfield Barwick’s proposed legisla-
tion on monopoly and restrictive prac-
tices. With the manufacturers’ lobby
breathing down the necks of Liberal
members and the Country Party scent-
ing cheaper prices for manufactured
goods and services from the cities
standing staunchly beside Sir Garfield,
there could be a titanic struggle in
Cabinet before the legislation sees the
light of day. Already last week Mr J.
W. Dunlop’s recent strong opposition on
behalf of the NSW branch of the
Institute of Directors was answered by
unqualified support for the proposals by
the Victorian Primary Producers’ Union.
The pity is that public opinion on the
matter is still most inarticulate and
seemingly ill-informed. Few people
seem to know what it is all about, and
most question whether Sir Garfield’s
exercise is really necessary. Even the
ALP, which one would have expected
to be strongly in favor, has said very
little at all in support. Without an in-
terested and articulate public view on
the proposals Sir Garfield could well feel
he is legislating in a vacuum, even though
knowing he is building a monument to
himself in the public interest.
One would have thought that at the
very least there should have been a
Government White Paper on the sub-
ject, but now, some six months or more
after the proposals were first announced,
something better has turned up—a Cur-
rent Affairs Bulletin “Legislating for Re-
strictive Practices,” published by the
Department of Tutorial Classes in the
University of Sydney and written by an
acknowledged if anonymous authority
on the subject. (Everybody knows who—
Professor Alex Hunter.)
For all the understandable aversion of
the business world to proposals of this
sort, the CAB will leave no doubt in the
general public’s mind that legislation is
required—though, perhaps, to clinch
the matter, it will prefer to wait until
the Government has finished preparing
its statement of detailed evidence on the
existence of restrictive practices operat-
ing in this country and not wholly rely
on the convincing but nonetheless gen-
eralised description of these practices
given in the CAB, or even the example
prominently brought to notice lately by
Tom the Cheap Grocer in Melbourne.
The only point on the desirability of
legislation raised in the CAB is whether
the proposals are too ambitious for a
relatively inexperienced country. It
thinks this may not necessarily be a dis-
advantage, and puts forward the sug-
gestion that all parts of the legislation
need not be operated immediately or
at the same speed. However, it does
not suggest that any part should be
scrapped, or that Sir Garfield has been
impressed by the views of his critics thus
far.
Moreover, the CAB thinks the pro-
posals are both imaginative and original,
as, indeed, they certainly are. The
Attorney-General has been eclectic in his
selection of those parts of overseas prac-
tice which are best suited to the Austra-
lian situation, and has produced a mainly
restrictive practices act —on a more than
usually comprehensive basis but one em-
bracing more than restrictive practices.
It concerns itself also with monopoly
and oligopoly situations through a variety
of devices —registration of mergers, pro-
hibition of monopolisation and registra-
tion and examination of unilateral and
bilateral agreements.
Though sticking firmly to the registra-
tion of multilateral practices, the author
goes some way in agreeing with both
Mr Dunlop and the revised views of
the Chambers of Manufactures and the
Council of Retailers, who want the regi-
stration and examination of bilateral
and unilateral practices (in list B) drop-
ped. Other bodies, such as AIDA also
think this part of the legislation spreads
the net too wide and makes it cumber-
some and unnecessarily complicated, add-
ing considerably to the work of the
registrars.
The distinction is that multilateral
practices are collusive in character and,
therefore, involve, among a group, an
agreement to influence the level of price,
quality, size of discounts, etc., whereas
bilateral and unilateral practices are the
result of negotiations between individual
manufacturers and their clients.
The CAB is not so accommodating on
the proposal for registering mergers,
which the business world finds quite un-
acceptable. “There seems no reason
why all mergers above a certain value
(£250,000 in the proposals) should not
be registered. The registrar need not
act on them all and, indeed, would only
be likely to in a few cases!” It could
be wrong on that; indeed, elsewhere the
CAB makes out quite a case for the large
firm in Australia, saying that in any
case “to some extent the degree of con-
centration (in big firms) is inevitable”
LOOKING FOR GREAT AND POWERFUL FRIENDS
80 Years Ago: July 21, 1883
TI/Ith the debate in the House of
"" Lords on Australian defence, all
the “high falutin” about the “integrity
of the Empire,” “our manifest des-
tiny,” and the other sonorous phrases
are knocked endways. The Imperial
Upper House says it cannot defend
us. Our position, then, is laughably
anomalous. We are provinces of the
Empire, and therefore must share its
war-like responsibilities. If the
French give no satisfactory reason
for their extraordinary conduct to
English naval officers in Madagascar,
then Sydney and Melbourne may have
to shift into the country. We are thus
in the position of being liable to all
the kicks but none of the half pence.
Should we arm to defend our ports,
we are merely spending millions to
secure ourselves against a quarrel
regarding whose inception, duration,
or conclusion we would no more be
consulted than Belgium would be if
the French, in the next disagreement
with Berlin, thought they would gain
any advantage by seizing it. We
should therefore be thankful to the
Lords for enabling us at last to look
this unpleasant fact square in the
face. They tell us, in language there
is no mistaking, that they cannot
defend us. It is about time our rulers
looked round to see who could.


wsmamm
ASAHI PENTAX
perfection
A 35 mm. Asahi PENTAX negative
enlarged over 4000 times to 35 sq. ft.
Another triumph for Asahi PENTAX!
im -
-4^
SUPERB NEW SV MODEL
with l)uilt-in self-timer, automatic resetting
film counter plus all Asahi PENTAX
quality features.
Full range of superb Takumar lenses from
28 mm. to 1000 mm.
Asahi PENTAX SV with FI.B Takumar
Lens and leather case £90.0.0.
from your photo dealer
C 3348
and, again, that “it is easy to exaggerate
the power of the large firm to exploit its
situation.”
The Institute of Directors wants to go
the whole way on this, to abandon the
entire process of registration and instead
let the Government identify by adequate
investigation those practices most fre-
quently found and most likely to be
harmful—let them define them in precise
terms; and proceed from there, said Mr
Dunlop in Sydney recently. But as a
contemporary has pointed out, in its
desire for precision in this matter the
institute could easily be leading business-
men into hot water, indeed into criminal
actions, as has happened under the anti-
trust code in the United States.
As for the Chamber of Manufactures’
suggestion that monopolisation and col-
lusive tendering or bidding should be
made registerable practices rather than
outright prohibited. The CAB finds it
“difficult to see how attempts at mono-
polisation could be so defined as to be-
come unambiguously registerable, or to
foresee the circumstances in which
potential monopolisers would voluntarily
bring forward the information on such
proposed moves. However, it- suggests
that the registration of collusive tender-
ing is a more reasonable proposition, as
it seems desirable to have this class of
restrictive activity kept in the open
rather than driven underground,
The author concedes that there are
conceivably some circumstances in which
restrictive practices are justified, but that
“any wide-ranging system of commer-
cial regulation must be suspect”; and
that any advantages to the economy at
large which may emerge from from re-
strictive trade arrangements are inci-
dental and subsidiary to the main pur-
pose of protecting the interests and
income of particular groups,
Well and good, though once the Gov-
ernment throws the spanner of its re-
strictive practices legislation into the
status quo of the Australian industrial
and business set-up, which, like the
organisation of labor, is ridden through
with long established (and most accept-
able) “restrictive” arrangements, it runs
the danger of seeing much of it disrupted
to the detriment of business confidence,
which goodness knows is highly sensi-
tive to tampering by the Government,
however well-mentioned the latter may
be in the public interest.
EDUCATION
Science and the
Catholic Schools
Why Dr Mannix let go his blast
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
F. E. CHAMBERLAIN
“The thin edge”
A section of the Labor Party is
startled at the astute timing of the
blast by Archbishop Mannix on the
ALP’s attitude towards State aid for
denominational schools. They cannot
quite make up their minds whether the
99-years-old prelate, a veteran contro-
versialist whom they concede has prob-
ably forgotten more about politics than
they have learned, was working on in-
tuition or inside information.
On the surface, there was no need
for the blast. From the viewpoint of
those supporting State aid for denomi-
national schools things were going
swimmingly. The NSW ALP, which has
always led the way in Labor thought,
had at its June conference, by an over-
whelming majority, recommended that
the State Labor Government “provide
or assist in the provision of science
laboratories and teaching facilities in
ALL schools” a decision which the
ALP Federal Secretary, Mr F. E.
Chamberlain, was later to criticise as
the thin edge of the wedge for full
scale State aid for church schools.
As I see it, other things then being
equal, it was in the interests of those
working to commit Labor to a policy
of State aid for denominational schools
to emulate Brer Rabbit and ‘die low.”
They had persuaded NSW Labor into
a position where it was defying the 1957
Federal Conference decision on educa-
tion, which restricted expenditure of State
funds to “State-owned and controlled
education facilities.” NSW might get
away with its defiance if nobody stirred
the pot. But if somebody stirred the pot
it was inevitable that there would be
trouble and that the “State-aiders”
would imperil the advantage they had
secured in NSW.
But other things were not then equal.
The ALP Federal Executive Labor’s
supreme governing body between bien-
nial conferences had held an unpub-
licised meeting subsequent to the NSW
decision, and the pot was already being
stirred vigorously. At this meeting the
Federal Executive’s Education Com-
mittee had produced recommendations
which, by a 7/5 vote, the Executive
agreed to submit to the Federal ALP
Conference, Labor’s supreme policy-
making authority, when it meets in
Perth later this month.
While NSW was given the face saver
of being allowed to make science lab-
oratories at State schools available on ar-
rangement to private school classes, the


report, among other things, said: “Citi-
zens who do not choose to use school
facilities provided by the State, whether
for conscientious or other reasons, shall
have the absolute right to develop an
independent system of schools of a
recognised standard, but any financial
responsibility by the State is to be
limited to State services.” State services
were defined as “fringe” benefits avail-
able to State school students, such as
free milk, text books, transport.
The NSW ALP secretary, Mr W. R.
Colborne, has since publicly protested
that he was at the Federal Executive
meeting which dealt with the Educa-
tion Committee’s report, and that the
decisions taken there do not ban the
NSW Labor Government from imple-
menting the recommendations of the
NSW ALP conference for the provision
of science laboratories in all schools.
But to reconcile the Education Com-
mittee’s report, which asserts that pay-
ments must be made to pupils and not
schools, with the NSW decision which
proposes aid to all schools, is to insist
chalk is cheese.
This education discussion went on at
the Federal Executive meeting in pri-
vate, and unknown to the public. It
was not until after Dr Mannix let go
his blast that it started to emerge. Dr
Mannix spoke officially in reply to
statements by Federal Labor leader Mr
Calwell in London, who, among other
things, was reported as saying that “edu-
cation standards in the privately run
religious schools are very often lower
than those in State schools because pri-
vate schools lack adequate buildings,
equipment and teachers.” Such state-
ments could not have warmed the heart
of the aged prelate, particularly coming
as they did from an ex-pupil of the
religious school system.
But as well as being a prelate Dr
Mannix is also astute and experienced
politically. If he had thought that he
was going to get what he wanted
direct aid for State schools under the
NSW formula he would probably
have shrugged off Calwell’s statements,
however insulting he considered them,
on the ground that you endure a mos-
quito bite philosophically when you
have a tiger in your gun sights. But
the fact that he took time off to slap
the mosquito suggests that he was well
aware that the elusive tiger of State
aid for denominational schools had not
only moved out of his gunsights but had
no intention of returning.
It would be interesting to know
whether Dr Mannix acted on intuition
or information. Whichever it was, his
statement has transformed the stirring
of the education pot in the ALP from
a private matter into a public ceremony,
part of which will be played out at the
Perth ALP conference later this month.
DEFENCE
The Strike
At Garden Island
A question of security
BY A SPECIAL CORRESPONDEMT
J. G. GORTON
Approached
strike at Garden Island naval
dockyard highlights a danger to
Australia’s security that has never yet
been squarely faced. The ships of the
Royal Australian Navy are refitted and
repaired by men who are led by Com-
munists and who follow those leaders
like sheep. What would they be like if
their task was to refit Australian ships to
fight a Communist power? What could
this mean in terms of sabotage by dam-
age, delay and espionage?
Deserted in the dock at Garden Island
lies HMAS Supply, the tanker whose role
is to replenish our ships at sea. She
should have sailed north with other ships
of the Australian fleet for a joint exer-
cise with the Army called “Carbine”.
The dockyard workers had refused to do
necessary repair and maintenance work
unless they were paid special rates.
The background to this dispute goes
back some six years. At that time a
great deal of time and trouble was spent,
and much friction was generated, in
determining when and in what cases
men should be paid special rates for
dirty work, or work in confined spaces
involving cramped and uncomfortable
conditions. To put an end to these
small arguments the Garden Island man-
agement proposed that an average
should be struck and, fixing this average
on the generous side, it agreed to pay
all men who were working in listed
machinery spaces of HMAS ships a
special rate (now Bd. an hour extra) for
six out of their eight hours’ daily work.
This rate was known as the special com-
partment rate. Where a man was clearly
working all his day in dirty or cramped
conditions he was paid the extra for all
eight hours by special arrangement.
Now HMAS Supply is basically a
merchant ship and indeed has served
as such, and her machinery spaces are
relatively large. The management, there-
fore, announced that the special com-
partment rate would not be paid, but that
every man who really was working in
dirty or cramped conditions, as agreed
between unions and management, should
get his extra Bd. an hour, according to
the Determination given in 1955 by the
Public Service Arbitrator. In taking this
attitude the management were thinking
partly of the effect on their own sailors
of paying all the dockyard mateys higher
rates, and also of the effect in similar
merchant tankers in the port.
The fitters somehow got the idea that
they were not going to get any special
rates at all, and decided on June 20 that
they would not work in HMAS Supply
at all unless they all got an extra 3s. an
hour. This extravagant claim, it later
appeared, was due to the fact that they
thought they should get danger money.
They had seen a notice screwed on to
the bulkhead saying “No Smoking”. It
was explained to their delegates that
there was no danger; that the ship was
empty of fuel and had been declared
gas-free; that the “No Smoking” notice
was the captain’s standing orders to the
ship s company, and arrangements were
being made with him to allow the dock-
yard workers to smoke.
Less was then heard about the extra
35., but a meeting of the men concerned
still resolved not to work unless they
were all paid at the very least the special
compartment rate. Captain Bell, the
general manager, then informed them
that in that case they would be dismissed,
thereby losing their accumulated privi-
leges when and if they were re-employed.
Over eighty men were dismissed on
June 24, but they were afterwards told
that if they would resume work under
the award conditions, the dismissals
would be rescinded.
The union representatives then sug-
gested that the matter be referred to the
Conciliation and Arbitration Commis-
sion for settlement, and this was done.
On June 27 it was agreed before the
Conciliator that dismissed employees
would be re-employed without loss of
privilege; that work be resumed on
HMAS Supply under award conditions;
and that a Board of Reference inspect the
ship in order to determine what special
rates should be paid and in what cases.
Later, however, the seven union re-
presentatives objected to this inspection,
saying with delightful frankness that they
wanted the matter to be decided “his-
torically” and not on the merits of the


r SUMMER *
STARTS
IN WINTER!
Livelier performance
and a smoother, quieter engine A
18/6 at your Service Station.^tr
RM 19.22
mvspM
FOR ENG! \m
GEAR & Rip
AXLE Oim
“wbdfnum
y!SUIPHIDT =
■
MusroPTY.
i£t m os
case. The chairman of the Board of
Reference merely recommended that the
unions should present their claim to the
Public Service Arbitrator, and that mean-
while the board would decide individual
disputes about rates according to the
Determination. A mass meeting rejected
his finding and imposed an overtime ban
on all work in the dockyard. The ban
was lifted after three days, but the men
still refused to work in the Supply until
they all (however spacious their working
conditions) got special compartment rates.
They decided to approach the Minister
for the Navy, Senator J. G. Gorton.
There, at the time of writing, the matter
rests.
In this dispute the men’s leaders have
shifted their ground so often, going back
on their own agreement before the Con-
ciliator and rejecting the findings of the
Board of Reference, that it would appear
that their only guiding principle has been
not to reach a settlement. Their be-
havior is only one example of the sort
of nonsense that can go on at Garden
Island. Some months ago a gang of six
men was at work in HMAS Melbourne
—or rather they weie not at work, be-
cause one of the gang was always in the
lavatory, so that the other five had to
wait for him. The management then
increased the size of the gang to seven,
in order that this need could be satisfied
without stopping work. After that two
of them were always in the lavatory.
the 2400 workers at Garden Island
” it has been estimated that only about
40 are known Communists. But of these
40, half are in positions of union re-
sponsibility. The Amalgamated Engi-
neering Union is a Communist-led union,
and so are the Boilermakers’ Society and
the Painters and Dockers. The Electrical
Trades Union is not Communist-led, but
its representative at Garden Island is a
party member. These few examples give
some idea of the dangers to which
ships and men could be exposed in war.
Can anything be done about it? All
the workers could be screened before
employment, as they are at the Lithgow
small arms factory. But this would cause
great difficulty and delay in repairing
ships. It would be impossible to take
on extra fitters, for example, for a job
that had just arisen. Ships would lie idle
while investigations were going on.
Could the Navy develop its own dock-
yard labor force? Its policy has been
to employ civilians where possible, be-
cause, although sailors are paid less than
civilians, by the time they are trained,
fed, clothed, housed and made the sub-
ject of all the paper work in connection
with their allowances, records, etc., they
cost the country more than civilian
labor. Nevertheless there would seem
to be good reason for undertaking the
extra expenditure at naval dockyards.
BUSINESS
Mr Holt’s Little Boom
With a song in his heart
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
H. E. HOLT
Enthusiasm
/\f the many cogent reasons for the
abrupt lifts to trading and ordinary
share prices on Australian stock ex-
changes in the last fortnight the most
convincing is the strong wind of optim-
ism blown into the market by the Federal
Treasurer, Mr H. E. Holt.
Big or little, this is the Treasurer’s
own stock exchange boom. Market
activity had been warming up a little
before July 3, but when the Treasurer
announced the Federal cash accounts
for 1962-63 had come out with a <£l6
million surplus, opening up the strong
possibility of tax concessions in the ap-
proaching Budget, this revelation sparked
off the rise. Moreover, with a song in
his heart a day later, Mr Holt’s enthusi-
astic Budget message did much to spur
the upward movement along.
Quite expectedly the market had to
pause for breath (and profit-taking) but
not before share prices, as measured by
Melbourne’s new index of fifty “leading”
industrial stocks, had risen by 4 per cent,
Sydney’s index covering 200 representa-
tive shares had moved up nearly 3 per
cent, and new turnover records for trad-
ing in ordinary shares had been set by
both Exchanges.
There is no certainty, however, that
when investors recover their wind the
same pace will be resumed. But at
least until the Treasurer opens his Budget
box on August 13, there should be enough
steam behind the market to keep it firm.
And if the Treasurer is true to his word
and sets his Budget on the base of “pros-
perity and development” it could go a lot
higher, particularly if the approaching
company reporting season provides the
more bountiful bags one would expect
after a year of economic recovery. (This
in itself is by no means certain, for though
few companies have so far reported for
1962-63, one of the biggest HP compan-
ies to do so, Custom Credit, suffered an
18 per cent profit drop.)
For one thing the big institutions have
not joined to any great extent in the
latest buying spree, so obviously they
could give the market a strong impetus,
once convinced the Government meant
business in fostering a new ground of
growth. On the other hand it could be
inferred from the substantial additions
to their share portfolios last year, and
the strong recovery in share prices on
the December quarter from the slough
in early October, that they have already
beaten the general public to the punch
in this latest boom and have no fear
that the market is going to run away
without them.
This position is complicated by the
fact that with long-term bond yields
levelling out slightly above 43 per cent
and bond buying falling away, the auth-
orities might well be becoming a little
apprehensive lest bonds become less
competitive with shares to the detriment
of this year’s Government loan raisings.
Looking at the market through the
Treasurer’s eyes, encouragement to share
buying at this stage will assist in lower-
ing equity yields and so increase the
relative attractions of a 43 per cent long-
term rate which, as that rate has virtu-


PLAIN ENGLISH
Suicide in Saigon
•T'HE suicide last week of a leading
South Vietnamese writer, follow-
ing so soon on the public self-im-
molation of a Buddhist monk, both
of which were deliberate and heroic
acts of political protest, have under-
lined yet again the frightening weak-
ness of the Ngo Dinh Diem regime
in Saigon—frightening because, ac-
cording to many calm and detached
experts, if this country falls to the
Communists, it would be only a
matter of time before Malaya, Indo-
nesia and finally Australia are re-
duced to the same fate. South Viet-
nam is, in other words, literally
Australia’s front line and if the in-
creasingly popular argument is true
that the Ngo Government, for all
its anti-Communism, is in practice
a Communist asset, it would be a
tragedy for Australia.
This case against Ngo runs along
these lines: he has lost, it is said,
the support of the conservatives—
elements in the Army and Air Force
have from time to time unsuccess-
fully revolted against him, the Bud-
dhists are now in revolt, and the
peasants are a disaffected source of
Vietcong recruitment; he has also
lost the moderates who are in gaol
or have left the country; and he
has long ago lost the Left which
has been absorbed by the Vietcong.
The regime depends, according to
this analysis, purely on American
backing. It should in brief be de-
posed as quickly as possible.
That there is some truth in these
charges is unfortunately obvious—
and certainly the horrible suicide
of the Buddhist monk sent a shud-
der throughout the free world—but
the case is still wildly overstated.
For one thing, the critics do not
answer the unpleasant question what
real alternative there is to the Ngo
Government except a worse one.
Do the critics imagine the Air Force
or parachutist rebels would be more
democratic? Is there any evidence
that the Francophile moderates have
the will or the know-how to run
either a Government or a war for
survival? Again the critics ignore
the fact the South Vietnam Govern-
ment has armed the people in the
6600 strategic hamlets built through-
out the country to fight the Viet-
cong, and obviously no Govern-
ment arms a people which is de-
termined to overthrow it.
In any case it is absurd to try
to discuss this situation without tak-
ing into account the fact that South
Vietnam is engaged in a war against
Communist terrorists that is dis-
tracting finance and brains from the
problems of social reconstruction to
the fight for survival. To expect
now the massive political reorgani-
sation we all want to see in South
Vietnam would be like demanding
it in England during the Battle for
Britain.
This whole situation is one call-
ing for the sort of patience that
most of us in democratic countries
are rightly reluctant to cultivate. We
want to see South Vietnam a demo-
cracy and we want to see it tomor-
row! Unfortunately the Commun-
ists will not let us. We have to
face the fact that the war in South
Vietnam, with all its accompanying
horrors and its interference with
social reform, may last another 20
years. In better conditions it took
Malaya and the Philippines 10 years
to clear out the terrorists. Mean-
while we know that South Vietnam
is gradually winning the war, and
we can take solace in the fact that
the appointment of Henry Cabot
Lodge as US Ambassador to Saigon
betokens the deeper American com-
mitment that is needed to win it
as quickly as possible and a
stronger American pressure for as
much reform as the traffic will
bear.
Another “ Confrontation ”
nPHE Indonesian Communist
Party’s apparently resounding
victory in forcing President Soe-
karno to retreat to his original policy
of “confrontation” with Malaysia
should be accepted with reserva-
tions. It is not the first time
that the President has been
forced to retreat and recover
again from an uneasy coali-
tion of the Army and the PKI
(together with his own Nationalist
Party in this instance) representing
a combination of Communist, Na-
tionalist, anti-Chinese and genuine
if irrational anti-colonialist interests.
It was perhaps too much to expect
that the persuasive and brilliant Dr
Subandrio (seeing himself as “the
winds of change” perhaps?) in
Manila and Dr Soekarno in Vienna
could between them lead Indonesia
so abruptly from established foreign
policy principles or fly unscathed
in the face of the entrenched atti-
tudes of the national pressure
groups. There may also have been
some grandstanding from President
Soekarno in appealing once again
to “national sentiment” at a time
when Indonesians are about to be
called on for mass sacrifices to
rebuild Indonesia’s collapsing
economy.
And in any case so what? Taking
the President’s words at their face
value, Indonesia is now, officially at
least, right back in the box in which
it found itself so frustratingly be-
fore the Manila talks. Quite apart
from mud-slinging between Djakarta
and Kuala Lumpur, what precisely
will it do? What can it do? It can
revert to sporadic forays and system-
atic infiltration across the Borneo
borders and it can reactivate sub-
versive groups in the Borneo ter-
ritories. These can and will be dealt
with. Nobody in Indonesia, least of
all General Nasution, would be silly
enough to think that an open attack
on the Borneo territories could
meet with anything else but a dis-
astrous defeat at the hands of the
British Navy and Army or that
American aid, more vital than it
has ever been in the face of Indo-
nesia’s imminent bankruptcy, would
not be immediately cut off. If ever
there was a time when we need to
wait and see without being unduly
pessimistic it is now.


ally been established by the market, he
is bound to acknowledge in the coming
September loan.
Further, by enlivening the share
market the Treasurer might hope also to
give a fillip to private investment and so
relieve the Government of some of the
costly responsibility for maintaining a
high overall level of investment in the
interest of getting higher rates of growth
in the economy and cutting back loan
requirements for public works.
So if this is Mr. Holt’s share boom,
he should not be ashamed to own it
or be sorry if it peters out.
ADVERTISING
The Price War
Competition by price-cuts instead of advertisements
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
SIR G. BARWICK
If and when
■Melbourne's price-cutting war in
'*■*■*■ foodstuffs has been increasing in
intensity recently and has now burst
through into the cigarette field. One of
the attractions offered by “Tom the
Cheap Grocer” of Perth when he
opened his Melbourne advance base in
Elizabeth Street were packets of Roth-
mans at 2s. Sd. Once his store was a
going concern "Tom” put the price up
to 3s.—still 3d. below normal prices.
However, before he did so a branch
of one of the national chain stores
(Woolworths) situated nearby had struck
back by offering another popular brand
(Craven A Filter) at 2s. 9d. Since then,
price-cutting has spread to another main
chain group, and to some of the purely
grocery chains, and a wide variety of
cigarettes are involved.
The tobacconists are feeling the pinch,
particularly in the central city and inner
suburban areas. It has happened in other
states too WA, SA (in the wake of
“Tom”) and in NSW and last June
the Retail Tobacco Traders’ Federal
Council said it would ask the Federal
Government to intervene, if and when
Sir Garfield Barwick’s restrictive prac-
tices legislation comes into force.
Last week in Melbourne about 200
tobacconists met with representatives of
the four main cigarette manufacturers to
discuss “orderly marketing.” The meet-
ing resulted in a compromise unsatis-
factory to the retailers. The cigarette
firms agreed not to supply cut-price
outlets, except for the two national
chain stores. The manufacturers appar-
ently felt that the volume of business
going through the chains was too great
for them to forgo. The meeting finished
with some retailers talking privately of
the possibilities of a boycott of those
manufacturers whom they regard as
being “soft” on the chain stores.
Mr T. C. Ryan, Chairman of the
Victorian Retail Tobacco Sellers’ Asso-
ciation, said afterwards that he believed
the manufacturers could bring the
chains into line by cutting off their sup-
plies.
Meanwhile, the advertising world is
feeling some of the effects of the price
war in the grocery field. A nationally-
known advertising executive told The
Bulletin last week that price-cutting
of grocery lines had been increasing
noticeably in Melbourne for some years
now. It had reached the point, he said,
where manufacturers were cutting into
advertising allocations in order to give
discounts which the chains and other big
buyers were successfully demanding.
With tinned goods in particular, he
claimed, competition was increasingly
being met not by protecting brand
images through advertising but by price
cutting.
The weekly double-page advertise-
ments of the national chains and the
purely grocery chains in no way com-
pensated for the loss of advertising of
branded lines by manufacturers. He
predicted that eventually newspapers
and magazines would feel the effect
of the changeover from competition by
advertising to competition by price.
The buyers’ market in canned fruits
is to some extent due to falling sales
on the British and other overseas mar-
kets. This has left manufacturers with
the prospect of a substantial carryover
of canned fruit into next season. As a
result, bulk buyers from the retail
chains have been able to get consider-
able reductions from the canners. This
unfortunately has left the canners with
less to spend on overseas promotion
through their gross profit margin being
cut. All round, in fact, it seems to be
a buyers’ market.
ABORIGINES
The Black Vote
Tampering with the ballot?
FROM PETER BLAKE IN DARWIN
T ast December, for the first time in
history, a few of the 10,000 abor-
igines now entitled to vote did so in the
elections for the Territory's Legislative
Council.
Despite dire predictions in some quar-
ters, their vote was not very significant
only a few hundred voted but
subsequent allegations by Mr D. D.
Smith, the newly elected member for
Stuart in the Legislative Council, that
officials of the Northern Territory Ad-
ministration had tampered with native
ballot boxes from his sprawling elec-
torate “to see how they voted,” stirred
the normally unrufflable Government
members to action.
Talks between the Attorney-General’s
Department and the Chief Electoral
Officer resulted in the appointment of
a Commonwealth police officer to probe
the charges, and in due course suave
ex-Adelaide homicide policeman, and
now Commonwealth Police Inspector
Errol Canny, arrived in Darwin to in-
vestigate.
But no sooner was the balloon up
than it was deflated. Mr Smith an-
nounced he would not speak to the
police, and in fact would not see In-
spector Canny. “I have the evidence,
but I’ll give it to the Legislative Council
if they want it, but not to a policeman.”
However, the persuasive inspector is
an old hand at the game, and not only
did he get to see Mr Smith, but a
couple of days later Mr Smith an-
nounced that he had agreed to tell
Canny all he knew. Broadly, what he
told him was what he had said in the
Council, but he added one thing new:
the two scrutineers, who first told him
of the opening of the ballot boxes,
had also seen the Administration officers
write the number of the postal vote
envelope on the ballot papers which
would enable anyone to work out how
the aborigines voted.
Inspector Canny has also seen the two
scrutineers, who seem to be the key
witnesses in the investigation, and he
is expected to report any day now on
his findings.
As serious as the charges appear to
be, it’s generally believed in Darwin
(and privately by Mr Smith) that the
officers concerned acted more in ig-
norance or stupidity than because of
some sinister motive. Whatever the
reason, if Canny has found the charges
are substantially true, somebody is going
to get it in the neck.


■■•■y'-yf. x-v • 'V W ' ■■>
■H
*'**■*,
.
■
«!
1
»
i
mm.
'
mt
smm , jpp
.. ...
:
f i : : '
mm i
mjs:
|| I \r * ;
■
■
■
■ - :■:
•••••<:
: .
■
fBSsBSSSBSBsBStKSmmmmsssBiB^m
mm
the wrong place to wait for Lufthansa
You’d have a long wait at an Australian
terminal for a Lufthansa flight.
Probably more than a year.
The fact is that Australia is the
only continent in the world to which
Lufthansa does not fly a regular service.
Yet.
But experienced travellers and your
travel agent can tell you what.
Lufthansa, the German international
airline, means in Europe, Asia, Africa,
America.
It means Boeing 7208’s and 707 Inter-
continentals, German thoroughness and
precision.
It means continental cuisine, friendly
service and crews who speak your
language.
It means experience born of pioneer
flights as early as 1926 culminating in
a proud record of 160,000 flights in the
last 8 years.
In the near future, when planning is
complete, Australia will be part of the
Lufthansa maps that circle the world.
In the meantime your travel agent can
book you Lufthansa flights to most over-
seas cities you will want to visit.
No, you can’t wait for Lufthansa
at an Australian terminal yet. But
Lufthansa is waiting for you as close as
Bangkok, Hong Kong or San Francisco,
just hours away from your office.
Europe? U.S.A.? The East?
Fly Lufthansa.
YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR TAA HAS FULL DETAILS
LAU73BB
LUFTHANSA
GERMAN AIRLINES


The Canberra Enigma
Dr Jim Cairns , MHR-a Future Leader for Labor?
By ALAN REID
Immediately behind the front bench
on the Labor side of the House of
Representatives sits a broad-shoulder-
ed, good-looking, superbly controlled
enigma. Its name is James Ford Cairns.
It is 48 years of age and it is the Labor
member for Melbourne's Yarra.
A lot of people in the House of Repre-
sentatives study Cairns thoughtfully as his
trim, ex-athlete’s figure lounges gracefully
against the green cushions of his seat in
the House of Representatives, his smooth,
youthful-looking face an unemotional,
unreadable mask even when he is under
virulent attack. Cairns has a touch of
quality about him that lifts him .above
the ruck of the back benches. Prime
Minister Sir Robert Menzies, an old,
experienced dog at the political game,
senses it. He makes no pretence of
ignoring Cairns and does not think it
beneath his Prime Ministerial dignity to
cross swords with him across the Cham-
ber—something Menzies does not trouble
to do generally with Opposition back-
benchers. Others sense it also. You can
almost see them asking themselves
“What makes this fellow tick?” as they
sit listening to a Cairns speech. It is
somehow part of Cairns that this query,
this suspicion and curiosity, is not con-
fined to the Government parties but is
voiced almost as extensively in the
Federal Labor Party.
When you talk about Cairns, first to
enemies and then to his friends, you seem
to be talking about two different people.
He is a person about whom it is difficult
to be neutral. To his enemies, he is “a
cold fish”, chill, withdrawn, dedicated.
They do not merely dislike him, they
are rather frightened of him and of what
they consider to be his bleak, passionless
determination to enforce upon the Labor
Party and the Australian community the
political viewpoint for which he stands —
and they are uncertain both about his
viewpoint and whether they would like
it even if they understood it. To his
admirers (and what they lack in num-
bers they compensate for in enthusiasm),
he is a warm, generous person who loves
people and animals and has deep loyalties
and a quick compassion for the helpless,
the underprivileged, and the bullied.
Personally, I do not go along with the
“cold fish” school. I do not profess to
know Cairns intimately, but I have
studied him at a distance, from the Press
Gallery in the House of Representatives
and through his speeches and writings My
judgment is that the co’dness is all on the
surface. I get the impression of a man of
considerable passion and intensity who
keeps that passion and intensity under
iron control, a man who is a bit lonely
politically but who prefers to endure lone-
liness because of his belief in his need
to maintain a disciplined control over
himself if he is to achieve his goals.
Cairns is a Leftist. That does not neces-
sarily make for unpopularity and suspi-
cion in Parliament even among your op-
ponents. Reg Pollard, one-time contender
against Arthur Calwell for Labor leader-
ship, is also a Leftist, says so, and adheres
inflexibly to the Leftist line. There is
no more popular or respected man than
Pollard in the Federal Parliament. Tom
Uren, Labor member for Reid, is Leftist.
He enjoys quite a measure of popularity
with Government supporters. Labor’s
Ned Ward is Leftist and a relentlesss in-
fighter against the Government. Yet you
find Liberals who have a real affection
for the veteran scrapper from East
Sydney.
It is the type of Leftism you espouse
and the effectiveness with which you
espouse it that is the deciding factor.
Cairns espouses an unconventional type
of Leftism and bitingly fluent, softly
spoken, marshalling his facts and argu-
ments with technical proficiency, he es-
pouses them most effectively. You might
disagree with his arguments and con-
clusions, you cannot ignore them. They
are too well presented.
A section of the Liberal Party as well
as some individuals on the Labor side
have a real hate of Cairns. They sus-
pect his type of Leftism deeply. On May
21 this year in possibly the bitterest
attack yet, young Liberal John Jess, also
from Victoria and representing the con-
stituency of Latrobe, described Cairns
as “the lover boy of the Communist
Press” during the debate on the bill ratify-
ing the agreement between the Menzies
Government and the Kennedy Adminis-
tration for the establishment of the United
States Naval Communications Centre
at Exmouth Gulf. Jess’ gibe was far from
pointless. The Communist Press features
Cairns extensively and fulsomely. Some of
his statements —such as the one in which,
with magnificent ill-timing and only
days before President Castro of Cuba an-
nounced there would be no further elec-
tions in Cuba, Cairns described Castro
as a democratic Socialist similar to him-
self who was doing in Cuba what “any
democratic Socialist would have done” —•
have earned ecstatic Communist approba-
tion.
But the Communists must also find him
an enigma. In some of his attitudes,
Cairns is almost as Right wing as Liberal
William Wentworth. He does not stand
for Australian disarmament, as the Com-
munists do, or for reliance upon the
goodwill of the Communist world. In a


i3ti3H
39NVH0
A twist turns one accounting machine into four
Twist the four job programme selector knob and hundreds of tiny metal
fingers move to programme this Burroughs Alphanumeric Accounting
Machine through any of four or more separate, specialised accounting
jobs. No control bars to juggle.
As your business grows, you can add more registers . . . more four-job
programme units.
Your Burroughs Machine can also capture basic information in punched
tape or punched cards as an automatic by-product of posting visible
accounting records. The tape or cards are subsequently processed to
provide detailed management reports.
Burroughs F 1000 Series Machines handle all accounts posting jobs with
the advantages of typewritten description, speed, accuracy and simplicity
of operation.
Burroughs is the machine to grow with...
8U1768
Burroughs F 1000 Series
Alphanumeric Accounting Machine
~. automatically copes with Dual Currency!
v r urn the knob and change from Sterling to Decimal
Like to learn more of how Burroughs Machines
can benefit your business? Then call your
Burroughs man at Sydney Metropolitan Area
76 William St. Phone 31-0541
221 Broadway Phone 61-9865
35 Burwood Rd., Burwood Phone 74-1256
Also at Newcastle, Lismore, Tamworth, Bathurst,
Wollongong, Canberra, Wagga and Griffith.
"All Burroughs machines can be converted to decimal currency


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping-, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKson 4
OSULUVAV
: V •^ ITD
TRADE
MARtf
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTVPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
lecture to the Australian Institute of Inter-
national Affairs, published in a booklet
entitled “Living with Asia,” he said, after
discussing the possibility of a conventional
attack on Australia by, say, Indonesia: “It
seems clear that Australia would be wise
to assume that self-defence is possible and
organise conventional forces planned to
the needs of Australian geography.” And
he seems prepared to carry this thought
through to its logical and financially harsh
conclusion.
“It can’t happen here”
Tn a recent defence debate in the House
of Representatives, he took a view that
came very close to advocacy of a national
non-party attitude on defence. If the de-
fence, and general developmental prob-
lem which he associated with defence,
needed an increase in the proportion of
national resources devoted to it, let both
Labor and non-Labor take up a common
position on the need for an increase in
taxation for defence purposes, was his
theme. Few Liberals, even those pushing
for a bigger defence effort, have been suf-
ficiently courageous so far to come out as
bluntly as this. And, amusingly, though
he seldom finds much for which to com-
mend the Menzies Government, he has
been much more flattering about what it
has done on defence than some of the
Government’s own supporters. In the
same debate he said: “The Government
has given us an army which is based on
the pentropic concept which is that of a
small, hard-hitting and easily moved unit.
I think common sense dictates that this is
the sort of development most suitable for
Australian continental defence. In many
ways what the Government has done
with limited resources in the development
of a defence structure has been a move
in the right direction. But the Govern-
ment has been moving only slowly in
that direction.”
Just as the approach of Sir Robert
Menzies, his ministry and the bulk of his
party’s approach to Communism is
governed by the thought that it Com-
munism can happen here, Cairns’
thinking is influenced by his belief that
it cannot happen here. He makes no
secret of this. He believes that he should
encourage manifestations of Leftism, even
Communism, which will act as a reform-
ing stimulant. Personally, I think that
he is making the mistake that so many
democratic leaders have in the post-war
years the mistake which assisted
materially the extension of the Com-
munist empire. Cairns is not the first to
think that he can use Leftists, particularly
Communists, to further non-Communist
ends and to be confident that he will
be in a position to discard them and re-
store them to their former impotence
when they have served out their useful-
ness. It often turns out that while you
have thought you were using them they
have been using you. If you sup with
the Communists you need a telegraph
pole rather than a long spoon.
Time after time Cairns’ “It-can’t-hap-
pen-here” attitude towards Communism
comes through his speeches and writing.
In one of his lectures, when discussing
power and its points of concentration in
the twentieth-century capitalist society,
Cairns states: “For the Socialist, absolute
(authoritarian) Left-wing movements are
not a power problem (in Australia). The
Communist Party and its front organisa-
tions . . . have so little power that they
are not in any way part of the power
structure. Compared with the power of
concentrated wealth, the power of the
Left wing is completely insignificant. Its
power could increase only if the power
of the Right wing was suddenly broken or
was suddenly exercised to extremes. It
is the Socialist objective to ensure that
the power of the Right is gradually chang-
ed and never so exercised thereby to pre-
vent an increase in the power of the
absolute Left wing.” The same “It-can’t-
happen-here” theme bulks largely in his
Curtin Memorial Lecture on “Socialist
Liberty” delivered at the University of
Western Australia in June, 1960. In this
lecture he said: “The threat of Commun-
ism in Australia, as it is in other coun-
tries, is largely a matter of economic and
social discontent. Whilst support for
Communist or any radical or dissident
point of view will continue to exist and
in many ways lead towards economic and
social progress (this is Cairns’ justification
for encouraging manifestations of Left-
ism, even Communism) it will not and
cannot be a threat to the status quo (pre-
sumably Parliamentary democracy) unless
the level of economic and social discon-
tent is high. In a country like Australia
where it is most difficult even to change
the Government there is little chance that
the State will be overthrown . . . provided
that Australia maintains foreign and
defence policies consistent with security,
which is not the case today, and main-
tains a satisfactory rate of social pro-
gress, Communism will not represent a
threat.”
You see in this the weakness in Cairns’
thinking. Most men —at least those who
finish up in such high posts as Cairns
may one day fill usually argue their
way to a conclusion. Cairns seems to
seize upon an idea and then argue back
from it. This technique gives his argu-
ments a superficial conviction but all he
is actually doing is justifying his stand,
not reasoning towards a conclusion. For
example, in the same Curtin Memorial
Lecture, he says “Private property (in
Australia) is the foundation of ALL
power and the source from which it is
derived,” and then goes on to justify
this viewpoint most plausibly.
With all deference to Cairns’ academic
qualifications this is a demonstrable piece
of nonsense, as is his later statement in
the same lecture that property today is
an “unmanageable power”. Take the
private banks. The private banks in Aus-
tralia must surely be regarded as a formi-
dable section of the property interest.
So far are they from “unmanageable that
Cairns’ own leader, Arthur Calwell, in his
recent book “Labor's Role in Modern
Society,” points out that the allegedly non-
Socialist Menzies has succeeded in plac-
ing them under control without compen-
sation where the late Labor Leader Mr
Chifley, as Prime Minister, failed in his
attempt to take them over with compen-
sation.
Similarly, take the case of the monopo-
lies which Cairns says has power con-
centrated in their hands “the one or
two thousand units, most of which are
inter-related and interlocked, that com-
prise the crucial part of the means of
production, distribution and exchange,” as
he describes them. I can hardly visualise
them actively promoting the Restrictive


URVOISIER
COGNAC
COURVOISIER V.5.0.P.,
COURVOISIER NAPOLEON,
COURVOISIER EXTRA VIEILLE.
Agents: FESQ & COMPANY PTY. LIMITED
Trade Practices legislation which the
Menzies Government, through the instru-
mentality of Attorney-General Sir Gar-
field Barwick, a barrister who has no
power base within the monopolies them-
selves, proposes as a curb upon their
activities. If those examples do not sug-
gest that, far from all power emanating
from private property in Australia, the
Parliament and Executive have a super-
ior power not only in theory but in prac-
tice I do not know what they do suggest.
Even in his attitude to Communism
in Australia, Cairns seems prone to make
assertions and then argue back from the
assertion. The threat of Communism in
Australia is, he says, “largely a matter
of economic and social discontent.” He
seems to ignore the lessons of such in-
cidents as the Coal Strike of 1949 The
Chifley Labor Government was in power.
There was full employment and general
prosperity. Yet the Communist Party
was able to promote a situation which if
it were not for firm, decisive action by
the Chifley Government could have pro-
duced industrial and economic chaos, the
sort of thing that could possibly have de-
veloped, in a less stable community, into
what the Communists describe as a
“revolutionary situation”. It would seem
clear that there are other facets to a
Communist threat than the “economic
and social discontent” though these are
undoubtedly important elements. There
is the systematic drive for power irrespec-
tive of economic and social conditions on
the part of the Communist Party. If, for
example, the coalmine owners (who in
Cairns’ view are part of the private
property complex which is the source of
all power within the Australian commun-
ity) had been responsible for the 1949
closing of the mines it would not have
been easier for Chifley to force a re-
opening than it turned out to be when
he was confronted with the Communist
Party and its “front organisations” which
on Cairns’ analysis have “so little power
that they are not in any way part of the
power structure.”
personal history is an interest-
ing one. From it emerges the sug-
gestion of doggedness and determination
that is part of his hallmark as a mature
man. Though he did not enter the Par-
liament until some years after the late
Mr Ben Chifley died, it is as if he imbib-
ed some of the personal attitudes of the
former Labor Leader. He seems, for
example, to have adopted Mr Chifley’s
maxim that in politics he who hangs on
longest usually wins and gets what he
wants. Cairns hangs on grimly, accepting
rebuffs and disappointments philoso-
phically, as serene and unruffled over a
setback as he is when he has a win.
His background is pure working class
He was born in Carlton, and raised by a
widowed mother. His father was one of
those who never came back from World
War I. He went to school the hard way.
The family had moved to a little country
town. He travelled 70 miles a day by
train and horse in going to and from the
Northcote High School, which he left in
1931, a year when the Great Depression
was a bitter reality.
For eight months he battled unsuccess-
fully to get a job. His first job was
clerking in an office. This seems to have
left him without scars. Unlike so many
Labor men who later gain academic
distinction, he does not appear to feel
under the psychological compulsion of
emphasising the purity of his working-
class origins. I cannot remember a speech
in which he has made a reference to
his earlier life or to the fact that he
was one of the youthful victims of the
Depression years.
Cairns was a good athlete. He held
broad-jump and decathlon titles at one
time. Now in his late forties, he still
looks as though he was a good athlete.
He has a trim, neat figure with a flat
waist. He moves lightly and with some
of the grace of a boxer with nice foot-
work. It was through athletics, indirectly,
that in 1935 he met the late Sir Thomas
Blarney, then Victorian Police Commis-
sioner and later to be Commander-in-
Chief of the Australian forces in World
War II and Deputy-Commander in the
South-west Pacific war zone to General
Douglas Macarthur,. United States Sup-
reme Commander in the area.
This meeting with Blarney as a con-
sequence of a leg injury Cairns had
received while running was to be a turn-
ing point in Cairns’ career. Blarney sug-
gested that the young athlete should join
the Victorian Police Force. It was a
good career, much better paid from the
start than the job Cairns was then doing.
Cairns joined up. Symbolically, in the
light of later events, one of his earliest
and most consistent jobs was to officiate
as one of the uniformed constables out-
side the Victorian Parliament House.
Then he was promoted to plain clothes.
He spent most of his time “shadowing.”
It is not surprising that he was a suc-
cess at this. He has a controlled type
of personality; he can turn it on or off
like a tap. It is easy to imagine him
merging unnoticed in a crowd and then
suddenly changing to the dominant per-
sonality as he made his arrest. He re-
ceived 14 commendations.
It was during this period that his in-
terest in politics started to intensify.
Few lads who left school during the
Depression years ignored politics. I know
because I was one of those lads. Quite
a high proportion read a lot and Cairns
apparently did. He read the books that
protested passionately against the needless
misery, poverty and human wastage that
culminated in the soul-destroying jobless-
ness of the Depression era, and he was
obviously influenced quite deeply by
this reading. But he kept on being a
policeman. Opportunity for him was still
in the future.
He had his share of excitement. He
was associated with the cases which
caused a considerable stir in Victoria in
the mid-thirties and led, after inquiry,
to the resignation, in quite dramatic cir-
cumstances, of Blarney from his post as
Police Commissioner. But when war


broke out in 1939 Cairns was still a
member of the Victorian Police.
He was in a reserved occupation and
though as the war years rolled on he
tried to get into the Army he was kept
in that occupation. Intellectual restless-
ness had also developed. Though he never
denigrates his former occupation as so
many Labor men are prone to do if
their former occupation lacks a close
and intimate association with the poli-
tics of the trade union movement, Cairns
apparently felt some frustration. It is
interesting that the only thing he says
nowadays against police work was that
however valuable a contribution it may
be to community welfare it is not
“creative.”
The Split
|>lamey, by then Australian C-in-C,
was again the person who changed
the course of his life. Cairns went to see
him in 1944. He explained that he
would like to get out of the reserved
occupation category. Blarney apparently
listened sympathetically and acted on
his sympathies. Within a short time,
Cairns was notified that he was free to
enlist if he so desired, despite his re-
served occupation classification. He
joined the Army.
He did not get outside Australia until
the war was over. Soon after enlistment,
he broke out in a rash of boils he
once estimated that he had 140 boils
in the months that followed. By the
time he was given a clean bill of health
the war was over.
He was sent to Morotai where he
worked in Army Education. Apparently
the six months he put in there whetted
his appetite for further learning. When
he returned to Australia and received his
Army discharge he became a senior
tutor in economic history at Melbourne
University, possibly unique in that while
he was a tutor he lacked a degree
and was working to acquire one simul-
taneously with the young students he
was tutoring.
Cairns has a mind which absorbs like
blotting paper. Some of the best docu-
mented material on that quite complex
subject the European Common Mar-
ket—presented to the Parliament while
the ECM was a matter of urgency came
from Cairns. He was quite contemp-
tuous about the compulsion some mem-
bers felt under to rush overseas to find
out what was going on and what these
goings on meant for Australia. If they
took the trouble to do some research
on the material available in the Com-
monwealth Parliamentary Library (which
does a very good job in getting hold
quickly of source material covering world
issues in which Australia is or may be
involved), they would be able to form
a pretty reasonable judgment on what
were both the short and long term impli-
cations of Britain’s entry (then proposed)
into ECM. On other subjects he has
shown a similar capacity for intense re-
search and a similar ability to mount
an argument and viewpoint that is im-
pressively and plausibly reasoned. This
talent for research, coupled with deter-
mination, probably helped him in his
University career. He took first his bach-
elor’s degree and later his master degree
in Commerce. (He later went on to take
his doctorate in philosophy while he
was an MHR.)
In 1951 Cairns got a Nuffield Scholar-
ship. He went to England, spending nine
months at Oxford, comparing the Wel-
fare State in England and Australia under
the guidance of G. D. H. Cole. On
his return to Australia he became a
senior lecturer in Economic History at
Melbourne University; and shortly after-
wards his spectacular rise in the Labor
Party took place.
1955 was the year of change in
the Victorian ALP. Dr Evatt had
retrospectively discovered the influ-
ence exercised upon the ALP by Mr
B. A. Santamaria, chieftain of “The
Movement,” which, under the control
of Mr Santamaria, himself possibly Aus-
tralia’s most influential Roman Catholic
layman, had become a major force in
both ALP and industrial politics. Dr
Evatt set out to destroy politically Mr
Santamaria before Mr Santamaria des-
troyed him. The contest was bitter, par-
ticularly in Victoria, which was both
Mr Santamaria’s headquarters and the
storm centre. The Victorian ALP Execu-
tive was dismissed by the ALP Fed-
eral Executive supporting Dr Evatt and
hived off to form what became the
Democratic Labor Party, still, nearly
a decade later, a thorn in Labor’s side
and a decisive factor, federally, because
of its strength as the balance of power
between Labor and non-Labor in Vic-
toria. With the dismissed Executive went
seven Victorian members of the Fed-
eral Parliament. Among the seven was
Standish Michael Keon, then the Fed-
eral Labor MHR for Yarra.
The new Victorian ALP Executive
was in a mess. It was an Executive
without a rank and file. Most of the
ALP branches had elected to follow the
dismissed Executive. The assets remain-
ing with the new Executive were: (1) Con-
siderable union backing, particularly
among the Left-wing-dominated unions;
(2) the fact that in any sectarian war
Australian Roman Catholics (it was
from a largely Roman Catholic section
that the DLP breakaways drew their
strength) were a minority in the com-
munity; and (3) the label beyond price
as a votewinner of “Official Labor
Party.” With elections due before the
end of 1955, the new Executive had to
scramble hastily for candidates to run
under the Official Labor Party banner
against the seven defectors. Cairns, un-
known to the Labor Party generally at
that time (the DLP still claims that he
had not been in the ALP the three years
which ALP rules say a man must be
before he becomes eligible for an ALP
preselection), received the endorsement
for Yarra. He resigned as a University
lecturer, and turned political cam-
paigner.
Of the seven Executive nominees,
Cairns undoubtedly had the toughest
row to hoe. Keon, the sitting member
in Yarra and the man Cairns had to
beat, was a brilliant speaker, with a
bitter, wounding uninhibited tongue. Born
and bred both in the district and in the
ALP, he was a tireless worker and a
cool, determined organiser. He knew
everyone and everyone knew him. He
had fought and beaten the Wren mach-.
ine while it was still a formidable or-
ganisation that helped to make and
break Victorian State Governments and
to influence Federal affairs. Of the seven
breakaways, Keon was justifiably —•
rated as the one with the best potential
for survival.
But Cairns defeated him by proving
that he was just as tireless a worker
and every bit as cool and determined an
organiser. He was out every night, if
necessary and if there were not sufficient
volunteers, with brush and paste pot,
sticking up those endless posters “Vote
Cairns 1” which probably never win a
vote but whose appearance give your
supporters a psychological fillip and the
stimulant to keep on with their efforts
on your behalf. Cairns did not win by
much in 1955. But he won. And in sub-
sequent years he went on to win con-
vincingly. Keon, who in different cir-
cumstances might have climbed to the
highest political positions in the land,
virtually retired from politics to be-
come a wine merchant in Melbourne.
“Lover-boy of the Communist Press”
the moment he arrived in the
A Parliament, Cairns had an impact.
He was suspect. Though the Communists
had supported Labor with more than
usual fervor in 1955 (they were basi-
cally more interested in administering the
political coup de grace within the ALP
to the fanatically anti-Communist Santa-
maria and his following than in helping
Labor) they gave particularly fervent
support to Cairns. They were ex-
tremely anxious to see the Parliamentary
last of Keon, who was as dedicatedly
and aggressively anti-Communist as
Santamaria and who exploited the sup-
port the Communists gave Cairns. When
Cairns entered the Chamber of the
House of Representatives he was already
tabbed as a Leftist, and a fairly extreme
Leftist at that.
He did nothing to discourage this
reputation, though he defends himself


%dt\ ul
LIQUEURS
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
CHERRi
The
perfect pair
for
perfect
entertaining
w
\> >
M
vodka
iWii
I
■ ■
with cold, incisive and dignified firm-
ness when anyone goes further; when, for
instance, Jess had made his “lover-boy-
of-the-Communist-Press” gibe, he said:
“His (Jess’) remarks were not made in
the heat of the moment. Everyone of
those statements is a half-truth or a
deliberate distortion. If that came about
as the result of a spontaneous speech
or a statement in the House that might
be provoked, one could understand it
and forgive him. But a deliberate state-
ment like this, made coldly and with cal-
culation, is that of a man who can be
trusted with no power or responsibility
. . . that of a man who is prepared with-
out provocation and without incitement
to allege disloyalty to others and that
of a man who deserves no answer what-
soever.”
As might be expected, Cairns became
the rallying point for the Leftist element
within the Federal Parliamentary Labor
Party. Mr Tom Uren, MHR for Reid
in Sydney, tends to follow and re-echo
him as on May 11, 1961, when Uren
told the House of Representatives, “I
agree with a statement made by Mr
Cairns during his television appearance
in Sydney to the effect that Castro is
a democratic Socialist. Castro is a great
Socialist and he is leading the Cuban
people out of bondage.” Cairns influ-
ences others who recognise him as an
able and adroit tactician. He is credited
with having master-minded the Left-wing
tactics which produced the compromise
over the legislation for the agreement
between the United States and Aus-
tralia in the Federal Parliamentary Labor
Party a compromise that was accept-
able to the Left wing and achieved des-
pite the Left wing’s numerical inferiority
within the Federal Parliamentary Labor
Party.
But despite the hostility and suspicion
of the Right wing within the Federal Par-
liamentary Labor Party and Cairns’
quite significant errors of judgment
(such as his assessment of Castro as a
democratic Socialist), the Party recog-
nised the touch of quality that Cairns
undeniably possesses. After the 1958
elections, he was elected to the Federal
Parliamentary Labor Party Executive. It
was a nice lift. It demonstrated that the
Party viewed him as possessed of the
potential to take on a ministerial job
in a future Labor Government.
Cairns did not seem to make a bad
fist of being an Executive member.
Though his general leaning was towards
the Left, he lined up on some issues, par-
ticularly those involving principles of
liberty, on the side of traditional values.
As far as the continental defence of
Australia is concerned he is more in
sympathy with some of the Liberals
than with those among his colleagues
who incline towards militant pacificism,
and has the nostalgic yearning for total
disarmament, with Australia setting the
example for the world in this matter.
Inscrutable
"Out after the 1961 elections the Right
wing made a set against him. He was
defeated for the Executive.
It was then that he appeared at his
personal best. There were no recrimina-
tions, complaints, nothing. Calmly, his
good-looking face unruffled, he picked
up his papers, took his seat on the
benches immediately behind the front
bench on which the Executive sits when
the House of Representatives is in ses-
sion, and went on with his job as though
he had not suffered a heavy setback.
He sits and “takes it,” without complaint,
his arms folded and his face in-
scrutable.
Some of the hostility to him in the
Labor Party undoubtedly stems from
jealousy. He has useful contacts still in
the academic field. He is obviously in-
telligent, well-spoken, impeccably court-
eous. He does not confuse argument with
“soapbox” oratory. As a consequence
both of his contacts and of his cool capa-
city to debate even with such an implac-
able political opponent as Liberal William
Wentworth without anger or heat, he
appears probably more often on TV and
is invited to address more learned and
specialist bodies than any other Labor
member, excluding, perhaps, Mr Calwell
and (in TV) Allen Fraser who, though
probably a better publicist from the ALP
viewpoint, is inclined to limit himself to
local or electorate (Eden-Monaro) issues
and consequently does not excite the
same measure of jealousy.
Cairns never fails to surprise. Recently
I was discussing with him the Peace
message issued by the late Pope John
XXIII just before his death. Cairns pro-
duced a copy of the full text of the
message. He had underlined the sec-
tions that had impressed him or struck
him as important. One section dealt with
the strength of a “gradualist” approach.
Liberals and some of Cairns’ own col-
leagues would be derisive if you des-
cribed Cairns as a “gradualist.” “That
section wouldn’t appeal to you, would
it?” I asked. “Yes,” said Cairns. “I view
myself as a gradualist.” And if you look
at the lecture in which Cairns “rubbishes”
the proposition that absolute (authori-
tarian) movements constitute a power
problem in Australia he justifies this
assessment of himself as a gradualist
when he says, “It is the Socialist objec-
tive to ensure that the power of the Right
is gradually changed ... to prevent an
increase in the power of the absolute
Left wing.”
There might be a clue to Cairns and
his political attitudes given by Dr Coral
Bell in opening the discussion on a
recent Cairns’ lecture to the Australian
Institute of International Affairs. Dr
Coral Bell said: “Dr Cairns’ analysis (of
world affairs and the Communist factor in
world affairs) bears a striking resem-
blance to that propounded until recently
by Mr Nehru. I seem to recall Mr
Nehru admitting after the Chinese at-
tack of last November that he had been
living in a world of unreality.”
For Jim Cairns, Ph.D., the “lover
boy of the Communist Press,” according
to Liberal Jess, and the ex-policeman
who expresses himself dedicated to pre-
venting “the emergence of dogmatic,
extreme and morally offensive types of
Communist dictatorship,” is still very
much the No. 1 enigma, politically, of
the Australian Parliament.


OUI AND ABOUT
The Swingin’ Handl
Sellers and Hancock- for the record
By PETER GREEN
To be perfectly honest, until last week
I was only dimly aware of Irene
Handl. Indeed the all-Australian
impression seemed to be dim because the
story of her arrival made only a couple of
inches in the newspapers. But look at
the record! She has been in four films
with Peter Sellers and with him in such
records as “Swingin’ Sellers.” She was
in Tony Hancock’s film “The Rebel.”
She has been in “Hancock’s Half Hour.”
She’s a regular in “The Rag Trade.”
She’s been in stage shows no end. She
has written scripts and sketches for the
top funny men in England and she’s
almost finished a novel.
She is 63. I found her looking very
small in the large and immensely res-
pectable foyer of Melbourne’s Windsor
Hotel. She was wearing a tweed suit
and a large domed hat which already
had been described as resembling a piece
of bedroom crockery.
Her left arm was in a plaster cast and
written across was “Not to be opened
until Christmas.” She broke her wrist
six weeks ago, just towards the end of
the two-year English run of “Goodnight
Mrs Puffin.” Certainly not, there was
no stopping of the show. She wrote in
a marvellous punchline for the charlady
Mrs Puffin and on the show went.
Now here’s the dilemma. The plaster
cast is due to come off just about
opening night for “Puffin” at the Comedy
Theatre. Should she comfortably shed
the plaster cast and lose the punchline
that was so successful in London, or go
on wearing it? Poor Irene Handl could
be wearing that cast until next February
I asked her to reveal the punchline.
She smiled sweetly. Not on your life.
She is not the type of comedienne who
fizzes like a box of detergent. She sits
with her hands on her lap. She has the
thoughtful approach. “I can’t bear work-
ing on television,” she said. “I hate this
bang, bang, bang, type of humor. You
know, gag after gag after gag. It’s not
for me. I prefer it when the comedy
comes naturally out of the type of char-
acter you are trying to create. ‘The Rag
Trade,’ that’s awful. Impossible stories
and situations. All rush. Neither the
actors nor the script writers could keep
up with it. Wonderful rating I know, but
much of the time we were making it
up as we went along.
“It was altogether different with ‘Han-
cock’s Half Hour.’ This was really pro-
fessional, a marvellous understanding be-
tween Tony and his script writers. I
used to appear as the landlady and I
liked the show. Tony’s a master. He
plays this lovely role of caddishness, al-
ways trying to do something slick, but
he can never bring it off. It's in all of us.”
Naturally a man could hardly wait to
bring up the subject of Peter Sellers.
In “Two Way Stretch” she was Peter
Sellers’ mother, and she goes over to
visit him in gaol to remonstrate with him
because he had made an attempt to
escape. In “I’m All Right Jack” she was
also Peter Sellers’ mother. For a
moment Miss Handl looked less sweet
and rather devilish. “That was the best
of them all. It tore strips off everybody.
It depicted the complete selfishness of
both labor and capital.
“I’m in the new film, too ‘Heaven’s
Above.’” she said. “It’s not out here
yet. It’s a sort of ‘l’m All Right Jack’
on the church. Not quite as good, but
it has its moments. Peter plays the part
of a vicar. He’s a Christian, so com-
pletely pure no one can possibly live
with him. Eventually the rest of human-
ity can’t stand him any longer and they
blast him off into space.
“I play the part of a tramp. I live with
Eric Sykes in a disused railway carriage
and we have 11 kids. Peter takes pity
on us and invites us all to live in the
vicarage, whereupon we pinch every-
thing in sight. Ah yes, we’re his first
great disillusionment.”
But what is the man like? Is he
shy, hard to talk to? “He’s my favorite
personality character. No, he’s not shy.
He isn’t shy to anyone he knows well.
Tony Hancock is more shy than he is.
Peter is a very sensitive man, moody
at times. And this is true. When he’s
playing roles he disappears as a person
altogether. He becomes the character
and he completely lives the part. He
really is that person. For this reason
he is marvellous to act with. You feel
you are acting with the real thing and
it’s something to act against. Between
roles he becomes quite empty.”
Irene Handl also has had her part in
the famous Peter Sellers LPs. In “Swing-
in’ Sellers” she is heard in two excerpts.
There is “Shadows on the Grass,” which
she wrote herself. She plays a silly rich
widow who continuously talks about how
much money she has and the manner in
which she attracts all the wrong types of
people. Then there’s “The Critics,” a
gorgeous carving up of the pompous
BBC programme; those who have never
seen the BBC show can gain perfect
understanding by thinking of the ABC
programme.
“This is the sort of thing Peter loves,”
she said. “He plays the roles of four
different critics, and I’m the fifth critic,
a lady critic. We’re supposed to be re-
viewing a book, you see. But only one
critic has got around to reading it, so
we spend all our time talking about a
film. As for the poor fellow who has
actually read the book, he doesn’t get a
word in.”
Irene Handl’s mother was Viennese
and her father French, yet she was born
at Maida Vale in London and she had
a middle-class upbringing. She did not
go into the theatre until she was nearly
40. She was living at home with her
parents and she felt life was passing her
by. She always had an urge to act and
when she started she was an immediate
success.
She had a natural gift, a real ear for
the Cockney accent. She’s a great
admirer of the TV show “Steptoe and
Son.” This is a well-written, smoothly-
handled show and so authentic. You see
there are differences in the Cockney.
The women speak a litle differently from
the men, then there’s a difference be-
tween the young Cockney and the old
Cockney. Because of the war the young
people gained a different inflexion. They
picked up a lot of American and
Yiddish expressions. “You get that in
‘Steptoe and Son.’ The son. Harry Cor-
bett, speaks differently from the old
man, Wilfrid Brambell.”
I asked Irene Handl if she agreed with
a comment by Stanley Johnston, senior
lecturer in criminology at Melbourne
University, that Steptoe was “sick and
immoral,” “a glorification of vice.”
“No, I don’t think so. We’ve got


THE KING’S SCHOOL
PARRAMATTA, N.S.W.
HEADMASTERSHIP
Applications are invited for ap-
pointment as Headmaster of The
King’s School, Parramatta, as from
the beginning of 1965.
The school has 850 pupils including
530 boarders and is conducted broadly
on the traditional lines of an English
public school. It was founded by Royal
Authority in the year 1831.
The Headmaster must be a com-
municant member of the Church of
England: he may be either a clergy-
man or a layman.
Applications addressed to the
Chairman of the Council will be re-
ceived until 31st October, 1963.
Particulars and conditions of the
appointment are contained in a
brochure which may be obtained from
the Honorary Secretary of the Coun-
cil, The King’s School, Parramatta.
rather beyond that narrow sort of think-
ing in England. But you still have it
here don’t you? Your terrible Sunday!
Nothing seems to happen at all. If I
didn’t have my writing I don’t know
what on earth I’d do.
“Yes, I can fill in my Sunday by
writing my novel. It’s a serious novel
with funny overtones. But it’s been hard
finding time to do it and I write about
seven pages to produce one.”
She talked of Melbourne’s lovely wide
streets, of the beautiful Botanic Gardens.
“Better than Kew Gardens in my
opinion,” and of Sherbrook Forest and
of the lyrebirds dancing at twilight.
“A marvellous sight.” And of her own
ambition.
“If you haven't got ambition you
might as well be selling buns. I want to
get to the top. You have to try for this
in the theatre, because if you don’t
you’re not fulfilled. Oh, I've no ambition
to play Lady Macbeth or Shaw. I’d be
hopeless at blank verse, couldn’t do it.
But, you know, I would like to try a
serious role. For once I’d like to be
someone who was a little bit sinister.
“The Mrs Puffin role is the biggest
I’ve had. The whole show was written
around this central character. Mrs Puf-
fin is a charlady and she has dreams,
dreams that come true. For example,
she dreams of a wedding and her dream
tells her that the wedding will be a
disaster. So she must rush off to the
bridal party to warn them that it won’t
come off. They won’t listen to her and
there are some very funny situations.
We did so well in England.”
The time was two minutes to 10, re-
hearsals were due to start again. Irene
andl was becoming restless. A veteran
O; 43 films, she was determined not to
co anything so unprofessional as being
ate .‘
As we went out the door of the Wind-
soi 1 told her that this used to be a
temperance hotel, and in Queen Vic-
toria’s day there was even a public burn-
ing of the licence. She looked around,
gave a sniff, and said: “You know, I
think there’s still some of that atmo-
sphere about it.”
1963—A “Golden Year”
Cosmetics as a hey to prosperity
By PATRICIA ROLFE
After 14 years’ study of the Austra-
lian market an American firm of
cosmetics manufacturers, Dorothy
Gray, has picked 1963 as the “golden
year to begin selling here. They consider
that 1954, when migration, postwar de-
velopment and air travel had brought
new sophistication to Australia and Aus-
tralia closer to older sophistications, was
the previous “golden year.” However,
Revlon beat them to it. Now they’re
sure the time has come again and that
over the next few years Australian wo-
men will have plenty of loose change
in their purses.
Dorothy Gray is a subsidiary of the
pharmaceutical chemists, Lehn and Fink
Products Corporation. The corporation’s
international marketing co-ordinator,
Neil Williams, is here to plan and carry
through the launching. Williams is an
Englishman, an engineer who went from
selling mining equipment to selling cos-
metics. He is not at all surprised to
have a top job in American marketing.
He lives in London and has his office
in New York. “I commute. I commute,”
he says blandly.
Williams said there was a Dorothy
Gray, just as there still is a Helena
Rubinstein and an Elizabeth Arden.
However, Miss Gray sold out in 1927
at the right time, according to Williams,
when the prestige cosmetics market was
at its peak and before cosmetics moved
into the complicated world of mass dis-
tribution. As a consequence, he implied,
Miss Gray today looks a good deal better
than rivals who have lasted the distance
in business.
The head of the international division
of Lehn and Fink, William van Rey-
nolds, has followed in Williams’ foot-
steps, ostensibly to see how Dorothy
Gray is going, but possibly to begin pro-
ducing pharmaceuticals here. The firm,
incidentally, has made Lysol since 1875
(now it comes as an aerosol pack), but
owing partly to the fortunes of two
world wars, it holds the copyright of the
name only in the United States now.
Williams believes that the Australian
cosmetics market is now wide open
enough for his firm to get in. After
the war, he said, Helena Rubinstein
was way ahead in the limited-distribu-
tion or prestige field (Dorothy Gray will
go into only 16 per cent of the possible
5000 Australian outlets) with Elizabeth
Arden following. Now, he is sure, the
cake can be divided into many more
slices. “Although it’s nothing like the
United States or France,” he said. “At
last count there were 110 cosmetics
demonstrators on the ground floor of
the Galeries Lafayette in Paris.”
Williams said that for consumer goods
of limited distribution Australia is an
easy market to survey but an impossible
one to prove. He did his preliminary
surveys himself, by coming here un-
known to anyone in the cosmetics field,
and walking the streets just looking at
women and then roaming the cosmetics
counters, looking at what women bought.
“But even after more scientific sur-
veys the only way we could work out
how we would go in Australia was to
begin selling,” he said. “In the United
States to prove what a market will yield
you can pick, say, half a dozen cities
of 100,000 to 200,000 and do your
studies in these. In the United Kingdom
you can take the TV areas of Tyne-
on-Tees and Wales and get results from
these, although these won’t go for Lon-
don. The UK is two countries Lon-
don and the rest. But in Australia your
concentration is almost entirely on the
eastern seaboard and the capital cities.
In fact, that's 90 per cent of your
market.
“Sydney and Melbourne are too large
a part of your market to prove anything.
You might take Adelaide and Brisbane
as ‘proving’ cities but the rigid Scottish-
German elements in Adelaide make it
untypical, and Brisbane’s tropical climate
rules it out.
“I did find out some of the differences
between Sydney and Melbourne. Sydney
women buy more cosmetics and they
begin buying them earlier. In Sydney,
too, there are several stores which can
tempt young women in to spending their
money, but in Melbourne, apart from a
prestige firm like George’s, there is vir-
tually only Myers. If girls don’t have
the prospect of wandering from shop to
shop they tend to spend less.”
Williams was doing his early street-


pounding here at the time that General-
Motors, in spite of outcry, bought out
the Australian shareholding. As a result,
his firm decided that it would make its
Australian subsidiary a joint enterprise
with a local company. They have gone
in with National Chemical Products,
makers of hair products.
The Australian company will also in
time take over production for the Far
Eastern markets, at present served from
Britain. Williams said that Asia was a
rapidly growing market. Japan has al-
most the same per capita annual con-
sumption of cosmetics as Australia, and
Australia is fourth on the world list,
but whereas most Australian women wear
some cosmetics 47 per cent of Japanese
never buy any.
Williams said his firm planned their
cosmetics for Asia to suit Asian women,
“Most of the other houses plan them
for Europeans living in the East,” he
said. “I feel they’re riding a dying tiger.
We plan our colors for Oriental skins,
although we have to cope with the fact
that Asian women, or mainly Japanese
women, tend to buy light colors in an
effort to look fairer than they are. We
also plan our cosmetics for the Carib-
bean for the colored women there, not
for the white minority.”
Around the Murray
The River Boats Tie Up
Floating poker-machines?
By HUME
If you haven’t noticed already, old
Murray River paddle steamers are
definitely in. Mannum, in South Aus-
tralia, has just preserved the paddle
steamer Marion. Why, the Premier, Sir
Thomas Playford himself, dressed in a
white T-shirt with “Marion” in big let-
ters across the chest, even took part in
the last voyage as a crew member.
Mr Bolte in Victoria has done noth-
ing as venturesome as that, but he has
proved himself a devoted river man.
The Victorian Government has given
Echuca and Swan Hill grants of £4OOO
each to buy their river boats.
So Echuca has bought the Adelaide,
an old 75-foot paddle steamer that dates
from 1866, and Swan Hill has bought
the Gem, a 132-footer. Then we must
mention another paddle steamer that is
being preserved, the Kookaburra, smal-
ler than the Gem but, at 144 feet, the
longest steamer on the Murray. Mr Lyle
Bennett of Nyah, near Swan Hill, plans
to get a packet licence and turn the
Kookaburra into a floating cabaret, com-
plete with dance floor.
Will that pay? It just might. The Mur-
ray River from the NSW bank to the
high-water mark on the Victorian side
belongs to NSW. So Mr Bennett plans
to load the Kookaburra with fruit mach-
ines. He can even anchor on the Vic-
torian side for the easy feeding of fruit-
machine-hungry Victorians.
All this nostalgia has come about be-
cause the river boats have just about
had it. Back in their heyday Echuca,
for example, was Victoria’s second port.
It was a mighty rip-roaring town with
72 pubs and two breweries. Alas, now
there are only 11 pubs, very little rip-
roaring and no breweries. In the year
1872, 240 boats berthed at Echuca. The
best they can do now are a few water
skiers. The first blow was the building of
railways, the second was the building of
the Hume Weir, and the third was the
Snowy Scheme and the lack of snag
boats. The water isn’t there any more.
From the nostalgia point of view the
most interesting project is at Swan Hill.
It all started when the city began to feel
left behind. Shepparton was building a
splendid art gallery, Hamilton had a
real beauty. So they invited Eric West-
brook, director of Melbourne’s Nat-
ional Gallery, to come and see them.
Eric Westbrook did come, but after look-
ing around he became excited with an-
other idea. The property owners of the
Riverina and the Mallee these past 100
years have never got around to throwing
anything away. Why not a Folk Museum?
He knew of such things at Skansen, near
Stockholm, another in Wales; but this
would be unique, a world attraction
among Folk Museums.
It was no trouble to collect the stuff:
The Town Clerk, Bob Pugsley, and the
local historian, Ross Holloway, went into
action. They found Mallee Rollers, mon-
strous things for rolling down the scrub;
phaetons, buggies, lovely old shearing
sheds with thatched roofs, single-furrow
ploughs, vintage winnowers and traction
engines no end. They even found the
biggest traction engine ever to come to
Australia ... 25 tons, 15 feet high, and
obviously designed by Ronald Searle.
Then Roy Grounds, our cultural centre
expert, joined the party. He became ex-
cited when he saw the local log cabins.
Here was a unique method of “drop log”
construction he hadn’t seen in 27 world
tours. He promised to design the Folk
Museum on a cost-only basis.
However, the star attraction of the
Folk Museum had to be the Gem. In
the old days they called her “The Queen
of the Murray”, 285 tons, 24 cabins,
three decks and a proper dining room
and smoking room, plus a music room
up forward for the orchestra. She was
built at Moama, by Echuca, in 1876.
But by 1886 they found she wasn’t big
enough for the trade. The river boat-
men solved this quite simply. They
beached her at Goolwa, South Aus-
tralia, cut her in half, pulled the pieces
apart with bullock teams, then built an-
other 40 feet into the middle.
The Swan Hill Cultural Committee
bought the old girl in Mildura for £2OOO.
Her engines had gone, which meant a
327-mile tow upstream home to Swan
Hill, and that’s where the fun began.
Councillors, local businessmen and such
became the crew. The big tow, biggest
ever on the Murray, started last October.
It was said that you could discern when
the Gem had gone past by the cans that
came floating down the Murray.
Another paddle steamer, the Oscar
W, was the towing unit, and it was a
hazardous operation getting the Gem
past the snags and around the incredible
twists of the Murray. Branches of river
gums snapped off against the super-struc-
ture, and on one occasion a gum tree
crashed a really frightful hole through
the ladies’ lavatory.
Finally the tow foundered at Good
Night, a little place just above the
Bitch ’n' Pups rapids, 65 river miles from
Swan Hill. And so she stayed put for
eight months. Good Night got its name
from an old blind character who used
to sit by the river. It was always night
time to him so he shouted “Good Night”
to every steamer that went past. What
with all the tourists who came to see the
Gem, Good Night became thoroughly
awake and the local pub did a marvel-
lous trade. Indeed, some tourists became
so fond of the pub they didn’t even get
to see the Gem.
By June 16 the Murray had reached
its highest mark since the 1956 floods
and the grand tow was on again. She
started off at first light on the Thursday
morning. The sun was shining through
the river gums, leaving pools of blood
on the water, and you sentimentalists will
be interested to know that the scene
was as pretty as a picture on a chocolate
box.
At 2 p.m. on the Saturday afternoon
she arrived in triumph in Swan Hill.
The Swan Hill Municipal Band was on
the top deck to play “Ole Man River,”
all Swan Hill was there on the Murray
Bridge to cheer, the Mayor was there
waiting to receive the keys, and frankly,
it was a sight nobody is ever likely to
see again on the Murray.


OVERSEAS
1. Malaysia’s Five Million
Overseas Chinese
Reprisal threats from Maphilindo?
From DENNIS BLOOD WORTH in Singapore
An irresponsible report in a Manila
newspaper, suggesting that one of
the first concerted activities of
Maphilindo will be to “crack down” on
Chinese traders, has sent a faint but
noticeable tremor through the community
of nearly five million overseas Chinese
at present safe in Commonwealth terri-
tory in South-east Asia.
To the bogey-minded, it has the ring
of truth: for Maphilindo is the name
given to the proposed Asian confedera-
tion which would take in not only the
constituent states of Malaysia (Malaya,
Singapore, Sarawak, Brunei and British
North Borneo) but also Indonesia and the
Philippines.
And for the Chinese, Indonesia and the
Philippines have black records. In 1959
the Djakarta Government ordered out
troops to force tens of thousands of
Chinese shopkeepers to abandon their
stores in the rural areas of Indonesia and
crowd into the overpopulated towns.
Thousands of Chinese homes and shops
were burned out or smashed up in recent
rioting throughout Java, in which the
damage was officially estimated at more
than three billion rupiahs (about ten
million American dollars at the trading
transfer rate or seventy million at the
basic official rate).
In the Philippines there is constant
pressure to dispossess and throw out
“overstaying Chinese,” and a corrupt
Filipino officialdom remorselessly pumps
huge sums of “protection money” out of
Chinese merchants year after year.
Tengku Abdul Rahman, Malaya’s 63-
year-old Prime Minister, has promised
that nothing of this sort will be allowed
to happen in Malaysia which is due to
be formed in August. His word is worth
much, for he is as multi-racial in his
politics as he is in his private life and
his cherished adopted daughter is
Chinese.
is another Malay prince in Kuala
A Lumpur who gives the Chinese less
cause for comfort, however. Lieutenant-
General Gusti Pengiran Hario Djatiku-
somo was sent to the Malayan capital as
Indonesian Ambassador in April.
A superstitious racialist, he is reputedly
much swayed by a Javanese seer’s dire
prophecy of the coming yellow peril in
Indonesia. He is therefore adamantly anti-
Chinese. His “unambassadorial” activities
have already provoked indignant ques-
tions in Malaya’s House of Representa-
tives.
But Malaya need not look abroad to
find bigots. The Tengku has recently
criticised those among the nation’s three-
and-a-half million Muslim Malays who
use “narrow nationalism and the Koran”
to win parliamentary seats. In mid-June
the chairman of the youth section of the
Right-wing Pan-Malayan Islamic Party
unashamedly denounced the Prime Minis-
ter for “appointing Chinese to be Minis-
ters”, and swore that if his group came
to power even ambassadors would all be
Malays.
A few days earlier the Speaker of the
Penang State Assembly had drawn a gun
when 40 people rushed the platform
from which he was addressing a public
rally. Police who came to his rescue were
also obliged to hold off with brandished
revolvers an aggressive mob, led (the
speaker alleged) by a Pan-Malayan
Islamic Party Member of Parliament.
Speaker Haji Sulaiman, who had him-
self made the pilgrimage to Mecca, had
been explaining to the meeting the
Islamic tenets which allow the Faithful
to be friendly towards non-Muslims
an idea evidently repulsive to the PMIP
of Kota Bahru in north-east Malaya,
where the incident occurred.
Over-quick to take offence themselves,
the bigots ride roughshod over the sen-
sitivities of others. A few days ago the
Malay President of a Sessions Court made
fun unmercifully of a 64-year-old Chinese
who had been detained for being in pos-
session of opium. When the Chinese
addict explained that without opium he
would die, Tunku Zaid pronounced from
the bench: “It’s all right there are
no police in the next world to arrest you,
should you continue puffing away with
your opium pipe.” The Chinese was a
Buddhist high priest.
Out of every hundred Malayans 49
are Malay, about 38 Chinese and 11
Indian, but happily the polyglot millions
intermingle harmoniously enough in
everyday life. They have, as usual, more
sense than most of their political leaders.
The non-Muslims nevertheless suffer the
gravitational pull of Koranic law. It is
manifestly unfair, for example, that two
Muslims of the opposite sex should be
sentenced for “khalwat” (close proxi-
mity when unmarried) when a non-
Muslim found in proximity with a Mus-
lim cannot even be charged. Legislation
is therefore to be introduced to make
non-Muslims punishable also.
How ominous, then, is the news from
Brunei, which may join Malaya within
the Federation of Malaysia? On June 18
a leading Muslim politician was arrested
in a Brunei hotel, and the glass in front
of him removed for analysis to see
whether its contents were alcoholic. For,
according to local interpretation, the
Koran forbids all strong drink.
The problems of multi-racial, multi-
confessional integration are many. A
Malayan minister of Indian extraction


‘SCRATCHING AROUND’
FOR EXPORT MARKETS?
TRV SOUTH AFRICA
“Side-tripping” to South Africa, on your way to
(or from) Europe/U.K., is a very logical thing to
do. Firstly, it enables you to investigate per-
sonally today’s excellent export opportunities in
South Africa and her northern neighbours.
Secondly, it offers wondrous sight-seeing
opportunities (such as Kruger National Park)—
a welcome break from the beaten tracks of tra-
ditional routes. And finally, it costs as little as
£15.10.0* in extra air fares, including S.A.A.’s
Boeing Stratojet service between London and
Jo’burg. Your travel agent has full details.
S.A.A., in association with Qantas, operates
twice-fortnightly services between Australia and
U.K. via South Africa and Europe.
‘Economy class from Melbourne, Adelaide or Hobart.
Slightly more from other Australian capitals.
The
SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE
route to U.K./EUROPE
0
SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
In association with Qantas, 8.0.A.C., C.A.A. and E.A.A.
SAA6I/25N AT
•f?
;i.x
:W.v
y
Ml
m
mm
mi
m
m
M
m
3s>&2
walks into Parliament in Kuala Lumpur
in the white dhoti of his ancestors, and
is surprisingly censured for not wearing
cosmopolitan costume in a cosmopolitan
State or, to put it more plainly,
trousers. The chairman of the Selangor
Turf Club has received a strong protest
from the Buddhists because somebody has
blasphemed by naming a racehorse
“Nirvana” (the holy state of bliss reached
when all craving that binds us to the
world has fallen away). An inquisitive
Chinese girl trips into a mosque in Singa-
pore in high-heeled shoes and Hindus in
a shop opposite laugh as Muslims firmly
show her the gate.
Malaya has nevertheless learned to live
with herself, and even to avoid the most
common form of Asian intolerance
which springs from resentment of the
West. In this respect she has only bad
habits to learn from her neighbors.
In Singapore a Left-wing opposition As-
semblyman has objected to Westerns on
television only because they “glorify
white men”.
In Indonesia even the Boy Scout and
American Rotary movements have long
since been banned, and at the end of last
month 17 American Peace Corps volun-
teers were greeted with a “Go-home-
Yank” type demonstration in Djakarta.
This disagreeable episode was relieved
only by a case of mistaken identity: some
demonstrators took another group of
white visitors for the offending Americans
and spent their time yelling at the wrong
people. “Well, that’s life,” remarked one
of the victims of this error with equani-
mity afterwards. It was a very Russian
comment coming from a Russian.
But the West sometimes gets its own
back. Even those hardened to Indonesian
xenophobia were startled this month when
local authorities in South Sumatra banned
“On Her Majesty’s Service”, a periodical
for London harbor employees, for its
“anti-Indonesian writings”. The reason
was more than adequate, however. It
was still calling Indonesia the “Nether-
lands East Indies.” (ofns.)
The Great Sino-Russian
Split
The enemy is Russia- not Khrushchev
By EDWARD CRANKSHAW
More than three years have gone by
since the inside story of the
Bucharest and Moscow confer-
ences of 1960. It was then quite clear
that current speculation about the pos-
sibility of a split between Moscow and
Peking was already outdated. The split,
though stilt concealed from the outer
world, had taken place.
It was at Bucharest in July, 1960, that
the Chinese accused Mr Khrushchev
personally of revisionism and of sacri-
ficing the Communist world in general
and China in particular to Soviet state
interests. It was at Bucharest that Khrush-
chev accused Mao Tse-tung of taking
after Stalin, of being oblivious to any
interests but his own and of spinning
theories remote from the realities of the
modern world. It was at Moscow in
November, 1960, in the teeth of almost
unanimous opposition from the assem-
bled delegates of 81 Communist parties
that the Chinese Party Secretary Teng
Hsiao-ping defiantly claimed China’s right
to form a “fraction” as Lenin had done


T
CLEAR WATER
Is ensured by using “ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-water systems,
and household requirements. Easy to install. Inexpensive
to operate and will last a lifetime. Large quantities in
use throughout Australasia. Other types for different
conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.VV.
Agents and Manufacturers of "Everlasting” Boiler Blow
off Valves, "Curvilinear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines, Ellison Switch Gear, Blasting Mats, Explosives,
Log Splitting Guns, etc.
'ukd
urn
scenic
route
CSSi
CANADIAN
NATIONAL
RAILWAYS .
General Agents: Dalgety and New Zealand Loan Limited (Ine. is Eng.)
Sydney ® Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide • Peril*
or Your Travel Agent.
before them (when he split the Russian
Social Democratic Party into Bolsheviks
and Mensheviks in 1903) and work to
convert others to their view. This was
the formal challenge to Soviet leader-
ship of the international Communist
movement. It is Teng who is leading the
Chinese delegation to Moscow at this
moment.
Nothing since then has occurred to
change the position, although it was not
until last winter that China was attacked
by name. But in March of this year,
Peking’s challenge was formally renewed,
this time in the form of a threat. The
“People’s Daily” of March 1 found a
way of dramatising that challenge which
sent a shiver down the spine of every
Communist.
The most evocative words in the Com-
munist litany are in the opening sen-
tence of the 1948 Communist Mani-
festo: “A spectre is haunting Europe
the spectre of Communism.”
The Chinese variant, addressed to the
“revisionists”, to Khrushchev, ran: “A
spectre is haunting the world the
spectre of genuine Marxist-Leninism,
and it threatens you. You have no faith
in the people, and the people have no
faith in you. You are divorced from
the masses. That is why you fear the
truth ...”
China was then attacking hard, ex-
ploiting Khrushchev’s Cuban fiasco for
all she was worth. Something had to be
done, and quickly, to avoid a formal and
open breach or at least to ensure
on the part of the Russians that the
Chinese would be saddled with the blame
for it, and vice versa. The arrangements
of the meeting of July 5 were the out-
come.
But the situation is past repair. It is
not a question of whether henceforward
there will be two Communist Romes.
There have been two Romes since No-
vember, 1960. It is a question of how
long the Soviet Union can go on pre-
senting herself as the fit leader of any
world-wide revolutionary movement.
The question is as complicated as it
is possible to imagine. It is also heavily
obscured by the terms in which the dis-
pute is being conducted. It started as a
quarrel about power, and it will end as
a quarrel about power. But power is
hopelessly mixed up with ideology and
heresy-hunting in a way that confuses
both Moscow and Peking as well as us.
And, of course, the guardianship of the
ark of the true faith is itself an element
of power in a world everywhere peopled,
in some places densely, with true believers
(there are more of these, it should be
remembered, outside the Soviet bloc than
inside): Russia has need of them; China
is out to get them.
It began long before Khrushchev. The
fact that the Chinese are conducting the
quarrel as though it were a personal ven-
detta between Mao and Khrushchev ob-
scures this truth: with Khrushchev out
of the way (a strong man with ideas of
his own) they certainly feel they could
manage Russia more easily. But the
enemy is Russia, not Khrushchev. People
used to ask whether, one day, the Chinese
might perhaps go the way of Yugoslavia,
with Mao taking a leaf out of Marshal
Tito’s book. But Communist China has
always been, from the very beginning, a
Yugoslavia on a great scale, in that
Peking was beyond Moscow’s control.
Mao made his revolution in 1948
against the advice of Stalin, and almost
at once Chinese propagandists were de-
claring that “Mao’s way” was not only
a brand new contribution to Commun-
ism but also the model for all back-
ward and under-developed lands.
Because China was for a time so de-
pendent upon the Soviet Union and be-
cause it was overridingly in the interest
of both countries to present a united
front to the world; because, too, Stalin,
in Chinese eyes, was a genius and the
unquestioned heir to Lenin; because,
finally, Mao quite agreed with Stalin that
in the early years of the revolution China
could not be considered a fully fledged
socialist state (on a par, say, with
Poland!) the latent and actual differences
were covered up.
But it was inconceivable that this
proud and antique land with its inborn
contempt for Europe would ever sub-
ordinate itself to European Russia, as the
European satellites were once subordin-
ate.
The challenge might have been de-
layed for a long time, but sooner or later
it had to come. After ten years of Com-
munist rule, with the Korean war be-
hind them, with Stalin dead, with his
successors exhibiting a hand-to-mouth
lOpportunism which had little to do with
Leninist theory and the pursuit of world
revolution, and a great deal to do increas-
ing the strength, prosperity and security
of the Soviet Union, with Khrushchev, as
it were, unilaterally amending Leninist
theory to this end, the Chinese felt it
'was time they made their weight felt.
This was early in 1959, at the time of
the great leftward swing, the introduc-
tion of the communes and the Great
Leap Forward, both derided by Khrush-
chev (who also feared they would cap-
ture the imagination of the people of
Asia, Africa and Latin America).
At first all the Chinese wanted was to
be recognised as equals. But this in itself


We’re mining jet planes, window frames,
power mains at Jarrahdale, W.A,
Jarrahdale, approximately 30 miles south of
Perth, is only a tiny township . , . but its
existence is vital. Here the rich bauxite is
mined open-cut method as part of Alcoa’s
all-Australian aluminium operation. From
this bauxite comes the aluminium for Aus-
tralia’s future. The ships, the jets, the picnic
sets, the everything for tomorrow is made
possible by Alcoa’s all-Australian operation.
Alcoa is now at work, mining, refining
and smelting aluminium. This £45 million
enterprise, through its 49% Australian
ownership, is an important factor in Aus-
tralia’s economic framework.
ALUMINIUM IS PROGRESS ... ALUMINIUM IS
Mining:
DARLING RANGES
Refining:
KWINANA m&M
Smelting and
■w i ullluiiu vv"
’’
ALCOA
0
AUSTRALIA
ALCOA OF AUSTRALIA
HEADQUARTERS AND SALES OFFICE: 155 QUEEN STREET. MELBOURNE. 67 6585
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
&
%
SK
mm
i'.?-
i
m
■■■-
/’ f < <ofc. '
mrnm
ft
<**B^
.. v
& >:«SiV '
m
' *
v c£f< ' ';
AOAI6.FP
“Bauxite mining at Jarrahdale.” A painting by award-winning artist Keith Howland, commissioned by Alcoa of Australia.


C=?
a
-a
Q
o?s
FOR
COMPLETE
ORAL.
HYGIENE
During business and
leisure hours, thoughtful
people benefit from the use
of ODOL.
A refreshing, protective
mouthwash, with a clean,
pleasant taste, ODOL . . .
keeps the teeth healthy
keeps the mouth fresh
keeps the breath pure.
After each meal, sprinkle
a few drops of ODOL on
the tongue or gargle in
water . . . helps protect
against cold and decay-
causing germs, too!
Keep ODOL handy
wherever you go, and be
certain your breath won’t
offend.
(Md
MOUTH WASH
was more of a challenge than they
realised. Whatever Staiin may have been,
Khrushchev was clearly no man to lay
down the law in detail to one of the
proudest peoples in the world, a people,
moreover, with a special interest in Asia.
Yet how could Russia treat them as equals
without surrendering its freedom of
movement the cherished and neces-
sary freedom of movement of a very
Great Power which also, for forty years,
had been the law-giver for the great
secular religion of ‘our time?
The nearest they got to it was at the
Moscow Conference of December, 1958,
when Russia and China jointly sponsored
the portentous policy document known
as the Moscow Declaration, and bullied
lesser and more sophisticated parties into
signing it.
It was a brief honeymoon. Certain
clauses in that declaration meant one
thing to the Russians, another to the
Chinese; and this was soon apparent. In
the critical year 1959 a number of things
happened. Khrushchev refused to sup-
port Mao in the matter of the off-shore
islands, refused to give him atomic weap-
ons, refused to back him in the Indian
border affair, refused to interfere in Iraq
when America and Britain carried out
their landings in Jordan and the Lebanon.
All this at a time when, or so the world
believed, the Soviet Union had a lead
over the United States in rocketry: the
Chinese expected them to exploit this
strength, and said so.
Worst of all, in Chinese eyes, Khrush-
chev showed himself more interested in
getting on with General Eisenhower than
in standing up for the Cause. And all the
time material aid was being lavished on
neutralist governments.
It is impossible to tell just when Mao
decided to make his bid for the support of
world Communist opinion. But it was
effectively made at the Moscow confer-
ence of 1960, and it failed quite abjectly.
Since then we have been able to watch
not so much the progress of the dispute,
which is circular, but, rather, the stren-
uous efforts of both parties to it to con-
vince the fraternal parties of the justice
and expediency of their cause.
Khrushchev's strongest card was
China's recklessness in face of the nuclear
threat. He played it for all his worth, dis-
torting the Chinese attitude in the pro-
cess, playing on the fears of Communists
everywhere, who do not wish to be blown
into eternity any more than we do
China's strongest card has been her
ideological purity at any rate on paper
and her obvious revolutionary zeal.
In practice, she has shown herself no less
opportunist than Russia; but she has the
sacred texts on her side, whereas Khrush-
chev has io invent his as he goes along.
She can also quite effectively present
herself as the active champion of strug-
gling revolutionaries all over the world,
undeterred by craven fears of local wars
of rebellion escalating into a major war
of nuclear annihilation.
But although the real issue is China
as a Power versus the Soviet Union as
a Power, although talk of war and peace
and coexistence blurs this issue, and
although very little weight should be
given to ideological pedantries (Com-
munists, like Christians, can usually find
a text to justify their actions), the ideo-
logical issue is a very real one.
The Soviet party and some of the more
sophisticated European ones, perhaps
others too, are engaged in transforming
Leninism into something quite different
the Poles and the Italians in the van.
Yet how can it be transformed, how
can poly-centrism be established, without
destroying Russia’s special position in
the world and depriving her of much
of her power?
Khrushchev must at all costs seek to
maintain Moscow’s moral authority over
a world-wide movement. But this move-
ment depends on unceasing purposeful
action under central leadership action
which, if pressed to its logical conclu-
sion, will sooner or later lead to univer-
sal catastrophe, (ofns.)
Family
Planning
in Taiwan
VTo one knows for certain what Com-
“■ munist China is doing about its
population explosion, but the Republic
of China on the island of Formosa
(Taiwan) is determinedly tackling the
problem.
When the Japanese left Formosa at
the end of World War 11. the population
was 6,090,860. By 1955 it had soared
to nine million and by the end of 1962
to 11,500,000. The ever-productive
Chinese had almost doubled their num-
bers in 15 \ears on the semi-tropical isle
ruled by President Chiang Kai-shek.
An active and efficient Family Plan-
ning Association has, for the first time in
China’s long history, revealed to millions
that reliable and proven methods for
planning the size of a family and spacing
its children exist. On Formosa a family
of eight or nine is common.
Although the FPA met strong opposi-
tion from conservatives in the Govern-
ment who branded any advocacy of
family planning as “immoral and in-
decent,” the association’s founder and
secretary - general, Mrs Tze-kuan Shu
Kan, has won over the Provincial
Assembly.
A recent survey in Taichung in central
Formosa during March, 1963, polled
2433 families and found 90 per cent
approve family planning, that 32 per cent
were practising various birth - control
methods, and that another 49 planned
to do so. (ofns.)


we told you
last week
That the weather, the road, the
Chef and the oysters were mostly
nice in July, so . .
If you have been working too
hard . . .
If your wife or your boss or your
friends insist that you have a
holiday now . . .
If you would just like a holiday
now . . .
If you would like to read quietly,
eat delicious food in peace, sleep
in in the mornings, play golf in
the middle of the day, fish in the
afternoon, drink wine all day, or
grow a beard undisturbed . . .
The
Black
Dolphin
MERIMBULA
FORUM
Migrants Who Are
Not Christians
Could Australia absorb Muslims , Buddhists and Hindus?
By KENNETH RIVETT
rpHE running debate on the “White Australia policy” has thrown up
the question whether non-European immigrants would find it hard
to fit into Australian life because they are not Christians.
This is a matter on which few will wish to be dogmatic. But there
is no doubt at all that religious difference can have a divisive effect if
it is allowed to coincide with income difference, occupational difference
or political difference.
Australia would certainly have to ensure that any non-European
migrants have qualifications that result in their spreading themselves
fairly evenly among the main occupational groups. It may also be wise
to plan for this outcome in the case of immigrants subscribing to any
one religion. Only if we assume that these precautions have been taken
is it worth discussing whether religious difference, by itself, is likely
to lead to difficulties.
One approach, which does not take
this question seriously, involves arguing
that the followers of different religions
have much in common. Christians, Hin-
dus, Muslims and most Buddhists all,
so it is said, “believe in the same God.”
Their points of difference are, by com-
parison, unimportant. If allegiance to
God is taken seriously, then the differ-
ences cease to matter or at any rate to
cause friction.
Agnostics may not be the best judges
qf these propositions, yet looking at
them, so to speak, from the outside, one
is bound to note that the followers of
the world's great religions do not all
believe in the same God.
People who believe in God usually
hold that the human situation cannot be
described accurately without mention-
ing man’s relation to God; yet to do this
is obviously to say or imply something
concerning God. If people of different
religious faiths take different views of
Him, their views are likely to have
different implications concerning man’s
nature and duties. These differences may
have a bearing on civic relationships,
and hence on all the homely problems of
immigrant absorption.
It would be more to the point to
accept the fact that religious difference
exists, and ought to matter, and then
to ask what the chances are that people
of different religious faiths have an
area of common belief so great that
discovery of that area should affect
their dealings with one another. The
various efforts to achieve even a partial
synthesis at the philosophic or theo-
logical level have not impressed the ex-
perts, but anyone will be impressed by
successful efforts to bring people to-
gether on the basis of a shared theism.
In this regard the achievements of
Gandhi are instructive. A Hindu who
held that all religions were “equally
true,” he made direct appeals to people
of other faiths, both individually and
in the mass, and to a remarkable degree
they responded. He could work closely
with agnostics like Nehru, but the Brit-
ish politicians who won his confidence
Irwin and Lothian, Lansbury and
Cripps were deeply religious men.
If we grant, as we must, that there
are large and significant differences be-
tween the teachings of the main world,
religions, there is another, more cogent
reason for doubting whether a common,
faith in God would help to integrate the
non-Christian immigrant with the Aus-
tralian community the number of
Australians who do not believe in God.
From such evidence as exists, it seems
that a high proportion of Australians
are either agnostics, or else hold a
faith so attenuated that in practice it
comes close to agnosticism. One can
only form broad impressions of the
present state of religious belief. We do
not even know why so many irreligious
people choose, voluntarily, to answer
the Census question concerning religion,
and then name a Christian denomination,
thus depriving the Census figures of
much of their value. Is it that the man
in the street still “really” believes? Or
has the rejection of Christianity, and
even of theism, gone very wide and fairly
deep?
Many clergy take the latter view and,
if they are right, the fact has an im-
portant bearing on the absorption of im-
migrants. For we in this country have
one tradition of which we seldom boast
one of mutual respect and of very


We’ll refine skyscrapers, salt shakers,
escalators at Kwinana, W.A.
Kwinana is the western seaboard of Alcoa’s
fully integrated aluminium industry. Here
rich bauxite is refined to produce the white
powder of alumina. The refinery is a vital
link in Alcoa's all-Australian aluminium
operation. From the alumina comes the
aluminium for Australia’s future. The sky-
scrapers, the clocks, the rolling stock
the everything for tomorrow is made pos-
sible by Alcoa’s all-Australian aluminium
operation. Alcoa is now at work in the
mining, refining and smelting of alumin-
ium. This £45 million enterprise, through
its 49% Australian ownership, is an im-
portant factor in Australia’s economic
framework.
ALUMINIUM IS PROGRESS... ALUMINIUM IS
%
*ocrv?
Mining:
DARLING RANGES
Refining:
PERTH%# KWINANA
/'..s'
Smelting and
fabricating:
PT. HENRY ■
GEELONG £
9* t wi’ttLurui &
:0
c,vs
ALCOA
0
AUSTRALIA
ALCOA OF AUSTRALIA
HEADQUARTERS AND SALES OFFICE: 155 QUEEN STREET. MELBOURNE 67 6585
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
% '
mm
v
a i
?:S»
mt
m*
Ulli
iili
SBB
>¥ ?
iliii
H
K m
m
Ay,
m
mm
w*c
m
'"-•v
Warn, t
w
....
•■•■ ?:■
I
. •>_
*p iisfe,
.
.
i
\V - f
I ' v ™
IPiPlip
X: x ; .<•. :•
SwasK?
§8
“Alumina refinery at Kwinana.” A painting by eminent artist Charles Bush, commissioned by Alcoa of Australia.


effective co-operation between Christian
and non-Christian.
As our history goes, it is a long tradi-
tion. At the very time when whites first
occupied Australia, the philosophic
foundations of religion were already in
question. The very idea of a prison set-
tlement where ex-convicts could start
again was attractive, in part, because of
the spread of new theories of punish-
ment which were largely the work of
non-Christians. Our intellectual found-
ing fathers were not always Christians
nor even theists.
It is not surprising that we have no
established church, and that the relations
between believers and unbelievers have
been so harmonious. We have experi-
enced some sectarian tension, but it has
been much less destructive than the
sterile Continental antagonism between
Catholic and anti-clerical. Declared
agnostics, from Charles Pearson to John
Curtin and Sir John Latham, have been
prominent in our public life —not to men-
tion theists like Alfred Deakin and Sir
Isaac Isaacs who did not believe in Jesus’
divinity.
This is a country where Christians and
non-Christians have worked together, not
only without embarrassment but with
some mutual enrichment. They have
done so both in spheres where religious
difference is irrelevant and also in fields
like politics, where sincere men will at
times judge issues differently because
they differ about religion.
In a healthy society the very effort to
act ethically, with or without religious
inspiration, will lead to a shared respect
that offsets the divisive effects of religious
difference. We are, by that particular
standard, a healthy society. Australian
Christians have been sensible; they have
seen that inability to accept the Christian
faith should not be a barrier to full parti-
cipation in the nation’s life.
It seems clear, then, that non-Christians
as such will not cause or encounter
antagonism. However, it can still be
argued that the followers of particular
faiths are likely to do so. There are
sects and tribes with views on religion so
intolerant as to make their members un-
suitable immigrants. But this is not true
of the great majority of followers of
any one of the world’s major religions.
If Hindus, Muslims or Buddhists settle
in this country, there will be differences
of outlook, some challenging and some
trivial, but there will be nothing to sunder
these people irreparably from other Aus-
tralians. In some cases there will be
religious difficulties over intermarriage.
But this is a matter where attitudes
change, and the problem is not new to
us.
On lesser matters, we learned long
ago to respect and, where necessary,
to make practical arrangements that cater
for minority scruples, whether about
alcohol, Friday meat, Sunday work or
Saturday work. With all that experience,
we can take taboos on beef and pork
in our stride!
Tt remains to consider the more sophis-
ticated objection that an immigrant
who is not a Christian, and has not grown
up in a country where Christianity is
the predominant religion, will find Aus-
tralia peculiarly hard to understand, and
will subscribe to values that cause him
much trouble in fitting into the Aus-
tralian scene.
In reply, it is almost enough to cite
the abundant evidence that the values
and “way of looking at things” prevail-
ing in the West can be transmitted to
non-Westerners, even though they have
never left their own countries, and even
though they are too specialised or too
ignorant to have more than marginal
knowledge of Western culture. The
evidence pertains to professional men,
business men in large organisations, office
staff, and urban factory workers, skilled
and unskilled.
Yet, as is often pointed out, the trans-
mission of values may not be
complete. Particularly is this true in
an area which bears directly on the
integration of immigrants—their relation-
ship to the joint or extended family.
No immigrant country has any busi-
ness to take exception to the joint family
as such. If people wish to live with
their brothers, sisters, elderly parents or
other relatives, they have every right to
do so. We are bound to feel some re-
spect for an institution that can lead in-
dividuals to assume onerous duties,
beyond any that are normally borne in
Western societies.
But on the other hand, the obligations
which the joint family imposes are so
heavy that there is a danger of their
getting priority over all others. A
family member who is regarded as hav-
ing financial responsibility towards other
members may be under pressure to act
dishonestly and even corruptly in his
dealings with the outside world.
There are signs in under-developed
countries that the joint family is already
weakening, at any rate in the cities. In
such a time of transition, the influence
of religion, one way or the other, can
be considerable.
A vigorous religion will help to retain
what is good in the old system, while in-
sisting that in some matters the custom-
ary duties should be put second to wider
loyalties. By contrast, a less vigorous
religion will simply strengthen traditional
attitudes.
There is thus a limited and indirect
link between the religious background of
an immigrant and his standards of con-
duct. However, the connection is rather
remote, especially as the joint family may
prove particularly vulnerable if shifted to
a Western setting.
Everyone agrees that for the time
being the number of non-Europeans
admitted to Australia should be very
small, and there will be few joint families
among them. Even if we decide, much
later, that larger numbers should come
here, the suitability of an immigrant will
still not turn on which religion he sub-
scribes to, or on which religion predomi-
nates in his country of origin. The ques-
tion will be whether the religious and
ethical views of the social stratum from
which he comes result in his duties to
the joint family being set in an adequate
frame of moral reference.
"My wife doesn't understand me."


Around Melbourne
VENGEANCE ON A BLACK MUD ALTAR
Tt would be a crude exaggeration to
say that Victoria is about to go
to war with South Australia. Let it
be put this way. At the mention of
the word Adelaide or “crow eaters”
a chill goes through the room, and
one is inclined to stiffen in one’s
chair.
It all came to a head with the
dreadful John “Gregory” Peck in-
cident, something that is still so fresh
in all our minds that it is not easy
to write about it dispassionately. But
first let us go into a little history.
Always we have felt that the mag-
nificence of Victorian football is such
that there is little point in playing
the other States. Interstate matches
are a nuisance. They serve only to
interrupt the pure glory and excite-
ment of the weekly round of club
competitions.
Take the year 1954. An Adelaide
friend of ours was desperately keen
to put a bet on the interstate match.
He was timid, and out of a grand
gesture of pity we gave him 20 goals
in on a quid bet. This, he felt, he
had to win. Ah, friends, do you know
what happened? He lost that quid.
Victoria won 26-16 to 6-9.
The beautiful reign ended on June
15: the South Australians came over
here and before a crowd of nigh on
60,000 beat Victoria 12-8 to 10-13.
It was South Australia’s first win over
Victoria on the MCG for 37 years.
I tell you, we were at a loss for
words. For South Australia there
were scenes reminiscent of VE Day.
The team made sure that their
precious souvenir guernseys would
not be stolen. They were put in the
care of the St Kilda police. The
football used in the game went home
to Adelaide to be preserved forever
in a glass case.
The film of the game was sped to
Adelaide that afternoon to be played
over and over again on TV. Accord-
ing to one reporter the last quarter
was shown so often after the late
news it was virtually replacing “God
Save the Queen.” As for the team, it
returned home to receive a “triumph”
worthy of the return of Caesar’s
legions. There were 8000 people wait-
ing at Adelaide airport. Even Frankie
Sinatra and Billie Graham did not get
welcomes like that.
By the end of the month the Vic-
torian team had to go on tour. This
time it was serious. All-time greats
such as “Polly” Farmer of Geelong
and Ron Barassi of Melbourne were
actually dropped from the side. We
played Western Australia twice, win-
ning narrowly the first match by only
one point.
All this was just a tune-up for the
great revenge match the following
Saturday at the Adelaide Oval. The
Victorian coach, Bob Davis, said
what was in all our hearts: “Victorian
football prestige is at stake. We have
got to beat South Australia.”
Unprecedented things happened.
We sent SEVEN football writers and
TV men to Adelaide. Until now it
had never occurred to us to cover
interstate matches. TAA provided
two special aircraft, Ansett-ANA one,
and there were tourist buses. What’s
more, we sent over a 40-strong cheer
squad
11/fEANWHiLE news began to seep
through to us of vast preparations
in Adelaide. One newspaper billed it
as “the match of the century.” The
Adelaide “News” ran a competition
with a £5O prize for the most fetch-
ing war-cry. Typical entries were:
“Wangadinganoo, wangadingaboo,
South Australia, yahohooooooo”;
“Ruck, leap, mark, tear Vies apart.”
The winning entry, curiously enough,
did not carry the scent of blood one
might expect: “Go, Reds, GO, GO,
GO.”
On the Saturday the “Melbourne
Herald” reported: “Last night in
Adelaide was like the calm before
the storm. People went early to bed
to be fit for today. The tenseness of
a Melbourne grand final fell over
Adelaide as the crowd gathered like
a congregation around the sacred
altar of black mud.”
To put it briefly, in dreadful mud,
in unending rain, the honor of Vic-
toria was restored. We won by 12
points. That appalling aforesaid in-
cident took place in the third quarter.
Our “Gregory” Peck chose a perfect
situation, on the wing and right in
front of the grandstand. When the
ball wasn’t even near, he swung a
superb haymaker, connected with the
jaw of Sawley of South Australia,
and laid him out cold on the ground.
Sawley took several minutes to
recover, and when he did he had to
be helped from the ground. I think
it was a city alderman who made the
obvious remark: “He was sawley
pecked.” The hooting from the crowd
went on and on. It was from that
moment that intercolonial relations
seemed to deteriorate. Peck had to
leave the ground very quickly after
the final siren or he would have been
lynched.
As for our cheer leader squad, it
was in trouble. Their 35ft “Come on
the Vies” sign was ripped off the
fence and they fought a tug-o’-war in
the middle of the ground. Only with
the greatest valor were the regimental
colors retained.
As for John Peck, he took some
strong treatment from the Adelaide
newspapers. “A discredit to Aus-
tralian Rules football ... he deserves
to be out for the rest of the season.”
Peck pleaded guilty, but under ex-
treme provocation. He said Sawley
had kicked him while he was on
the ground. This was something that
had to be proved.
Our newspapers devoted space to
stills from a film which did indeed
make it appear that Sawley had kick-
ed Peck. It was a cause celebre. What
did Adelaide have to say now? Peck
had to appear before the South Aus-
tralian League Commission, then the
evidence was put to the VFL tribunal.
For four days we waited tensely
for the VFL hearing. Would the
tribunal realise the great service Peck
had done for interstate relations by
assuring vast crowds for all future
matches; or would it, ungratefully,
rub him out for all time? The tribunal
was merciful. After an hour’s hearing
it gave its verdict: suspension for two
matches.
Immediately I shouted: “Wanga
dinganoo, wangadingaboo, South
Australia, yahohoooooo.”
BATMAN


letters
to the
editor
THANKS FROM PAKISTAN
Sir,
On the way to “sweet home” after
more than five months’ tour of Aus-
tralia as a fellow of the Colombo Plan,
right from Adelaide in the south to
Gayndah in the north, I shall be failing
in my duty if I do not thank through
your esteemed paper all the Australians,
no matter what their station in life, with
whom I came in contact for the kind
and benevolent treatment offered to me.
I found them exactly what the booklet
“Australian Awards” describes them to
be, “proud of being friendly and eager to
help strangers.” I did not find any color
bar or other distinction whatsoever, and
I believe that those who have ever
levelled this charge against Australians
have failed to distinguish between color
bar and the maxim that “birds of a
feather flock together.”
I congratulate you people for having
created an earthly heaven for yourselves
in this country, which is tarnished only
a little by drunkenness, the races, and
poker machines, and endangered by a
little excessive easy living which saps the
spirit that is essential for existence in the
world of today.
One thing that I did not like is your
immigration policy, which is perhaps the
only thing which requires immediate
change. I would suggest that, instead of
a total ban upon certain people, which
naturally gives rise to antagonism and
ill feelings, it would be better if some
educational, financial and other suitable
qualifications were prescribed for all
immigrants. They may be given a period
of five years or so after which they may
either be accepted as part of the society
or asked to quit because they could not
adapt themselves to the life of “the
country that is in some ways so dif-
ferent” from theirs.
Thanking Australians once again
MANZUR ALL
30/6 Napier Barracks,
Karachi-4, Pakistan.
AUSTRALIAN WINES IN UK
Sir,
May I refer to the letter from Mr J.
Lake, of London (13/4/63), concerning
the selling of Australian wines in the UK.
Even though, or perhaps because, he has
been resident in England for 12 years he
may be somewhat out of touch with
recent efforts made by the Australian
wine industry to fly its flag over here. At
considerable expense they have set up
the Australian Wine Centre in Soho,
where over 150 Australian wines can be
obtained, under brand labels that Mr Lake
Will recognise.
Our own firm has been operating a
branch in this country for 25 years. It
has always been possible to buy known
Australian wines if one really wished to.
The Australian Wine Board has been
clearly listed in the London telephone
directory for years. Notwithstanding the
fact that Australian wines may not have
national distribution they have always
been here, and it is incorrect to infer that
they cannot be obtained.
The most vocal visiting Australians in-
variably buy the cheapest product and
then condemn it. One can only assume
that they only pay a “tenner” for their
suits and no doubt abuse the tailor later!
You only get what you pay for, and good
Australian wine is not cheap. It never
was and never will be.
F. D. DANIEL
Manager, B. Seppelt & Sons Ltd.
London, EC 4.
“CHOICE”
Sir,
I have read the article on “Choice”
and the Australasian Consumers’ As-
sociation (29/6/63) with great interest,
because I feel that the public is best
served by an open discussion on matters
concerning everyone’s purchases. How-
ever, it is necessary that such discussions
be based on concepts relevant to the
case to which they refer. It is very
difficult for the layman to comprehend
the jargon used by statisticians, and
matters become worse still when such
technical terms are used inappropriately.
It has to be admitted that a small
sample is not truly representative of the
big stream of production from which it
came. It is biased, but unfortunately
for the argument put up by Dr Parish
it is biased in favor of the manufacturer
who did not produce to specification.
The number of defectives found in a
sample of four from a process which
contains 10 per cent defectives on the
average would, in approximately 65 p.c.
of sampling, show no defectives at all.
Any variability in a sample of four is
likely to be more pronounced in the
product, and the customer is entitled that
the specifications are fulfilled by any part
which reaches the counter, and the law
is in agreement with him there. All
claims of weights and measures which
apply to merchandise are understood to
cover minimum requirements and not
average ones. Any claims to performance
are understood by the public to cover
the same condition, except where
especially stated, as in the case of
matches which are sold stating an
average number and not a minimum.
The expression “statistically signifi-
cant” has no meaning because the public
is only interested in factual significance.
It could not care less whether the poor
merchandise has come by chance varia-
tion in the manufacturer’s process, or by
someone making a big mistake, and that
is the only information which a signifi-
cance test will give.
H. SELINGER
Oatley (NSW).
JAPANESE TUNA BOATS
Sir,
In the article on “The Japanese
Pioneers” (15/6/63) you refer to the
Japanese “longliners” which visit Hobart
from time to time. Some inaccuracy is
in the report, and I think this should be
put right.
The distance the Japanese are fishing
is much less than 300 miles south-east of
Tasmania. In fact, some are only 10 or
12 hours’ steaming away and are ob-
viously in the deep trough which exists
to the east and south of Tasmania. While
these vessels are undoubtedly well-
equipped, their living accommodation
leaves much to be desired. The men
sleep in shifts in each other’s beds, 27 ins
wide and side by side.
The cost of the vessels is nowhere
near the amount indicated in your
article; in fact, we have a quotation for
a 105-footer of £55,000 sterling.
It is not generally known that Aus-
tralian fishermen pay high duties on
some of their expendable materials: rope,
for example, is 50 per cent and twine
about 45 per cent. Even so, it pays to
import synthetic rope because the price
is still lower than Australian-made.
Japanese tuna-boat owners receive a
subsidy of 30 per cent or 40 per cent
on the building cost of new vessels, as do
fishermen in UK, Canada, etc. A subsidy
greatly helps the production of more
advanced and larger fishing vessels. On
boat - building equipment Australian
fishermen pay duty from free, up to
45 per cent to 55 per cent for items they
need to complete their vessels. Is it any
wonder Australians are not competing in
the fishing industry?
G. P. SMITH
Managing Director,
C. H. Smith & Co. Pty Ltd
Launceston (Tas.).
THE ROYAL
Sir,
It would appear that Mr Utman
(6/7/63) does not have much knowledge
of the Orient when he states categorically
that “Oriental people have difficulty in
pronouncing R’s.” It is true that the
Chinese cannot do so, but what about
the Japanese who, after all, are Aus-
tralia’s best customers in Asia? I lived
in Japan for seven years and I have yet
to meet a Japanese who does not pro-
nounce the letter “L” as “R.” One of
their favorite foreign television pro-
grammes was called (by them) “I Rove
Rucy.”
Whilst on the subject of the name for
our new currency, I wonder if the
“dollar” enthusiasts have considered that
the United States dollar is often referred
to as the “Almighty Dollar” so that it is
quite logical that an Australian dollar


could be described as the “Pygmy
Dollar.” Let us, therefore, cut the cackle
and call the new currency “Pygmies.”
H. F. H. DAVIES
Queenscliff (NSW).
AID FOR TIBET
Sir,
Readers of J. M. Russell’s article on
Tibetans in India (6/7/63) may be in-
terested to know that some Australians
have been aiding Tibetan relief and re-
settlement projects through Community
Aid Abroad. The sum of £BOO has
been sent to construct eight family living
units at the Tibetan Self Help Centre at
Darjeeling, where refugee families are
taught Hindi and trade skills. Funds
have also been sent to finance the
nursing training of two Tibetan girls
who will return to Gangtok in Sikkim
to establish health services for Tibetans
living in a remote area, and £2OO has
financed pumps and pipes for irrigation
which enabled a small group of Tibetans
near New Delhi to become self-support-
ing through vegetable growing. Money
has also been sent to the Tibetan Nursery
at Dharmsala. This was established
originally to care for 200 children; a
letter received last week from the Dalai
Lama’s sister informed me that there are
now 907 children in the care of this
nursery.
Community Aid Abroad will willingly
transfer donations to any of these pro-
jects.
DAVID SCOTT
Director,
Community Aid Abroad
67 Brunswick Street,
Fitzroy (Vic.).
HYDATIDS
Sir,
I would like to correct one or two
minor points in the otherwise useful
article on hydatid disease (22/6/63).
Hydatids is notifiable in all States except
New South Wales, including the North-
ern Territory. In Western Australia
hydatids was gazetted as a notifiable
disease in 1948. In South Australia it
was inserted in the Third Schedule in
1954.
Hydatid disease, although unpleasant,
is not a killer in every case, as was
implied.
P. J. BULL
West Leederville (WA).
FASCISM AND THE PAPACY
Sir,
To accept, as your correspondent T.
G. Bowie (6/7/63) does, that the Pa-
pacy has always been opposed to totali-
tarian forms of government must surely
stretch the imagination a little far when
one considers Fascist activities over the
past 30 years.
Firstly, almost all Nazi and Fascist
leaders both military and civil, were de-
vout Roman Catholics, including Gen-
eral Franco of Spain, who was blessed
by Pope Pius XII after his civil war
victory, during which thousands of non-
combatants were annihilated for politi-
cal reasons. And, secondly, there was
the co-operation and neutrality of Ro-
man Catholic countries towards the Axis
during the Second World War.
R. B. LOWNDES
Toongabbie (NSW).
“HUJ”
Sir,
The recently issued series of motor-
vehicle number-plates in Victoria bearing
the three letters “HUJ” is a most unfor-
tunate choice, as the combination of these
letters means a very rude, offensive and
absolutely unprintable word in several
European languages (including Czech,
Polish, Russian, Yugoslav and Ukranian).
Already a lady-motorist, when parking
her new car in St Kilda, was a target for
derogatory and offensive jokes from some
youngsters who evidently knew the mean-
ing of the word. It is certain that more
unpleasant episodes will occur.
Could the authorities order the can-
cellation of the series?
“DISGUSTED”
Melbourne (Vic.).
BRITAIN TODAY
Sir,
I arrived in Australia three months
ago from England, and I accept Mr
Knopfelmacher’s contention (6/7/63)
that all is not perfect in contemporary
Britain. The conventions of an out-
moded class system are still struggling
against the changes brought about by
the post-war rise to affluence, and there
is still much prejudice and hypocrisy.
But the more patently absurd portions
of Mr Knopfelmacher’s diatribe deserve
correction for, in spite of his statement
that “this will probaby be miscon-
strued as an anti-British tirade,” his
article gives an extremely confused and
distorted image of contemporary
Britain.
Mr Knopfelmacher makes a number
of contentious statements and assump-
tions, but entirely omits to quote his
sources. All his postulations are based
on dangerous and misleading generalisa-
tions. He assumes, for example, that
“British security procedures are quite
inadequate.” Certainly a number of se-
curity risks have been exposed recently;
yet their exposure could equally well
be said to prove the efficiency of our
security service.
Mr Knopfelmacher asserts that “a
tiny Communist Party controls many
important trade unions;” the number of
Communist-dominated unions in Brit-
ain is in fact insignificant, and, with cer-
tain exemptions, recent industrial unrest
results (as in Australia) from the rapid
rise to material prosperity of union
members. The recent ETU case, where
the Communist attempts at ballot-rig-
ging were exposed and leading Com-
munists expelled by the union with
the whole-hearted support of the Press
and the public, has been conveniently
overlooked.
It js said that statistics can prove
anything, and it is no doubt with this
dictum in mind that Mr Knopfelmacher
reaches his neat equation “economic
stagnation plus rising crime minus mat-
erial affluence equals Decadence.” By
this reasoning, we can assume that many
capitalist societies are decadent. The
average Briton pins his hopes neither
on unilateral disarmament nor on the
sustaining powers of the monarchy, and
it is quite erroneous to assume that
either view gains widespread credence.
Yet Mr Knopfelmacher pictures Britain
as consisting solely of bearded disarmers
asserting themselves rather bitchily with-
in the existing system against Blimpish
monarchists condemning the masses to
an absurd pariah status. Anyone
who has ever been to Britain (as
I assume Mr Knopfelmacher has not)
will know that this is an absurd
distortion. The structure of society
has changed enormously since the war:
and education, though unfortunately
still an influential factor in certain areas
of public life, is no longer the sole
criteria for success. More than 50 per
cent of Oxford and Cambridge students
have not been educated at public schools
and this percentage will continue to
increase. New universities are rising all
over the country, thus decreasing the
social influence of Oxbridge.
B. C. STEVENS
Melbourne (Vic.)
EDUCATION EXPENDITURE
Sir,
For your correspondent, the Rev. J. P.
Bartley (22/6/63), to blame “those in
charge of private schools” for Australia’s
“shameful discrepancy” in education ex-
penditure is like blaming the Jews for
having a high death rate when Hitler
controlled Europe. Our State Govern-
ments have chosen to tax all for the
“free” education of 75 p.c. of students.
They have sought to discourage private
investment in education by giving only
token help to non-Government school
children. Their purpose has been the
creation of a State school monopoly.
A State monopoly would cost the tax-
payers 25 p.c. more than the present
system. There are sound economic
reasons to believe that it would give less
value for each pound spent than a
system in which parents and others were
encouraged to invest in education. Such
encouragement is being given by the
Federal Government by means of taxa-
tion deductions, but these do not help
those who most need help— the average-
to-low income earners who pay little tax
in any event.
State and Federal bursaries and
scholarships are available to non-Govern-
ment school students everywhere in Aus-
tralia. Therefore, there is no reason, in
principle, why Australian Governments
cannot correct the “shameful discrep-
ancy” by expanding their bursary
systems.
G. E. F. HUGHES
President, Sydney Ass’n
for Educational Freedom
Sydney (NSW).


REVIEWS
Letter from Britain
You Can’t Laugh
All the Time
End of the satire cult?
By BERNARD BERGONZI
"|j\ashions come and go rapidly these
days, but at the moment the British
scene is still dominated by the Great
Satire Movement, though not, I suspect,
for very much longer. What started as
isolated outbreaks of subversive sharp-
shooting directed at the Establishment,
the Tory Government, and the crasser
manifestations of the Admass society
has become, with astonishing rapidity, an
institution in itself, with a huge and
devoted following, and, most curious
of all, something of a personality cult
among its leading practitioners. In such
circumstances it's not surprising that the
fine edge of protest has become some-
what blunted, and ideals generally a little
muddled. The lengths to which institu-
tionalism and an eye to the main chance
can go was recently suggested by the
“Private Eye Lighter” promoted by the
satirical fortnightly, “Private Eye”, under
the slogan “It’s a miracle, it's satirical"’;
this was a cigarette lighter bearing a
facsimilie of “Private Eye’s” masthead
emblem, a dispirited-looking crusader
carrying a bent sword.
Again, David Frost, a brash and ener-
getic 23-year-old who has sprung into
fame as the star of the BBC’s satirical
late-night television show “That Was
The Week That Was”, recently formed
the subject of an article in the
“Observer’s” fashion columns, which de-
scribed his clothes in loving detail.
“Private Eye”, never averse to a little
internecine scrapping within the satirical
camp, has published a mock obituary of
David Frost, listing all his manifold acti-
vities in the entertainment world and
remarking, “the cause of death was be-
lieved to have been overstrain of the
talent”. “Private Eye” has itself been
attacked by a brilliant journalist who is
sometimes labelled as a satirist though he
prefers to regard himself simply as a
humorous writer Michael Frayn of
the “Observer”. Frayn complained
sharply of “Private Eye's” tendency to
reduce everything to a question of per-
sonalities, thus evading real issues of
principle; they retorted with some wither-
ing abuse of Frayn, and he has subse-
quently satirised the satire movement in
the guise of a figure whom he calls
“Ken Knocker, the teen-age satirist.”
All this may sound complicated and
rather ingrown: it is. In fact, the move-
ment is very much an in-group affair,
marked both by dissensions and all kinds
of unexpected inter-relations; thus, Chris-
topher Booker, who edits “Private Eye”,
also supplied scripts for “That Was The
Week . . (now resting for the
summer), while the magazine's art editor
and resident cartoonist, William Rushton,
appeared regularly on the TV show as a
Billy Bunter-ish comedian of quite plea-
sant talents; he is now, such are the re-
wards of success, also writing a column
for the tabloid “Sunday Mirror.”
“De yond the Fringe” began it all.
When it opened in London in 1961
this revue made an immediate impact,
having previously attracted a lot of
attention as an undergraduate production
at the Edinburgh Festival. It was un-
usually austere for a West End show,
with a cast made up of four young men
not long down from Oxford or Cam-
bridge— and no girls. And it offered
a number of unfamiliar attractions:
political comment, jokes about such
customarily taboo topics as race and
class —in one sketch the the actors
discuss whether it is worse to be work-
ing-class or a Jew and a surprisingly
high intellectual content: one of the
funniest sketches presents a shrill, rapid
argument between two way-out linguistic
philosophers.
The style of “Beyond the Fringe” was
undoubtedly the dominant influence on
both “Private Eye” and “That Was the
Week .. .” —or “TW3”, as it’s now more
briefly referred to. “Private Eye”, a direct
descendant of certain Oxford under-
graduate journals, began in a modest way
in a ChelSea-Kensir.gton milieu early in
1962, and since tjien has had a fantastic
success; il now commands a wide
national readership, though some large
distributors refuse to handle it because
of their fear of libel actions. Despite its
success, “Private Eye” continues to pre-
sent the appearance of an undergraduate
magazine; it is reproduced from type-
writing, and its pages are a messy col-
lection of cartoons, newspaper collages
and doctored photographs. Its amateurish
appearance forms part of its appeal;
“Private Eye” has done very well out of
the device of giving a large readership
the sense of being part of a select in-
group. Not all of “Private Eye's” con-
tent is amateurish; in particular, it pub-
lishes the work of some excellent car-
toonists, notably Trog Steadman, and
Gerald Scarfe (one of the best of them,
Timothy Birdsall, also a superb TV per-
former. died tragically in June at the age
of 26). In its satirical methods “Private
Eye” prefers the bludgeon to the rapier,
and the handful of mud to either. Their
favorite descriptive phrases are “boring”
and “a load of old rubbish” (the current
number, for instance, carries on the first
page the sentence, “the only magazine
which does not contain boring articles by
Colin Maclnnes”). This outspokenness is
refreshing after the evasions of the con-
ventional press, but it rather soon be-
comes wearisome. “Private Eye's” prin-
cipal targets are Mr Macmillan (whom
it usually refers to as “the late Mr Mac-
millan"’). the Conservatives in general,
and certain ■ prominent TV personalities.
But it is also very willing to snipe at
the leaders of the Labor Party; shortly
before Hugh Gaitskeil's death it publish-
ed a savage strip-cartoon “life” of "Har-
old Willsoon”, so called because, “when-
ever someone has said, ‘Oh, not even
Harold would do a thing like that’ you
can be absolutely certain that he will
500 n...”. The Royal Family, too, is
regularly lampooned in “Private Eye”;
on the Queen’s return from Australia it
described her as “just returned from her
second smash-hit tour of 'down under’
where live some of her most devot-
ed fans. Today Elizabeth Regina
‘Queenie’ —is right at the top of the
show-business tree. Commanding over
£lO,OOO a week, Liz is right up on a
level with that handful of international
stars Elvis, Ella, Harold known
universally simply by their first
names . .
“Private Eye”, now and then, can be
extremely funny; but in the not too long
run there is something self-defeating
about its nihilism. The satirist needs cer-
tain implied positives, even if these are
never stated, but “Private Eye” gives the
impression of having none at all. A simi-
lar criticism might be made of the highly
entertaining “TW3”. It has perhaps been
fatally subject to the pressures of a mass


A good coffee that
won’t keep you awake at night
•••
that’s
CAFFEIN-
FREE
COFFEE
Enjoy the delicious flavour of HAG coffee,
either instant, ground or beans. HAG coffee
does not upset your heart, nerves or digestion.
• •
, DECAFFEIJ 1^
tostant Coff 6 *
0
GOOD COFFEE AND A GOOD NIGHT'S SLEEP
FREE! 2 Booklets. Atomic motor-
ing age, historical facts, motor
repairs, hints on economy.
NU-METAL (Pat.)
SAVES REBORE • SELF-ENGINE
RECONDITIONER WHILE-U-DRIVE
REPLATES WORN upper cylds,
main bearings, diffs, gears.
SAVES rebore. ENDS Piston slap,
rattles, oil, petrol waste. Also
decarbonises. RESTORES new
compression power, top speed,
zip. SAVES. Adds £.s.d. to re-
sale value. GUARANTEED 25,000
miles. No results—no pay. Harm-
less finest engine. SIMPLE. Add
Re-Nu expanding liquid Nu-Metal
to oil, petrol or plug holes, 4,6,
8 cyls, 60/-, 70/-, 80/-. Testi-
monials engineers' reports, free
advice available. Open Sat. Morn.
Distributors required.
ORDER FORM
Sold only by
RE NU CO. (Estab. 1932),
58 Swan St., opp. Richmond Stn.,
VICTORIA. 42 1755.
I enclose £ for Nu-Metal.
Name
Address
"Bui."
or send free particulars describ-
ing action of Nu-Metal.
medium within a few weeks its view-
ing audience had shot up to 11 million
which is remarkable when one considers
the esoteric nature of some of its
humor.
Like “Private Eye” it is at its best in
political satire, but a desperate search for
fresh material causes it to lapse rather
often into archness and whimsicality, and,
towards the end of its run, into blasphemy
and obscenity (the BBC, leaning over
backwards to prove that it is no longer
staid, has given a remarkable licence to
the programme in these matters). Still,
technically it represented an exciting and
original use of the television medium, and
it uncovered some interesting talents
notably Millicent Martin, who has turned
into an accomplished jazz singer in the
style of Annie Ross.
And now, it seems, the party’s over.
Doubts are being expressed about the
sheer negativism of the satirists, their
lack of discrimination and, above all,
about the ambiguity that results from the
highly commercial blend of satire and
entertainment. The audience laughs
delightedly, but remains merely a collec-
tion of detached spectators; they aren’t
made to feel uncomfortable as they
should when confronting authentic
satire. The Private Eye Lighter and
David Frost’s shirts manifestly belong
to a different world from Swift or Ben
Jonson. Writing in the May number of
“Encounter”, John Wain referred to “the
weasel-like character” whose main in-
stinct is to abuse and destroy, and com-
plained that “the smooth draught of satire
slides down the insatiable public throat
like some worthless quack medicine”. In
the following issue Alfred Sherman fol-
lowed up the attack in an article headed
“The Complacent Satirists”, which made
a lethal onslaught on the whole business
Already it is not quite so smart to be
satirical. It was fun while it lasted but
one can’t go on laughing all the time.
THEATRE
Pocket-size
Passions
Colombe. Jean Anouilh. Pocket Play-
house. Sydney.
Jean Anouilh’s “Colombe,” in Nor-
man McVicker’s remarkably poised
and polished production for the Pocket
Playhouse, is the most elegant moral
lesson one is ever likely to see.
A jealous would-be Beethoven meets
Colombe, a flower-girl, on the stage of
his mother’s theatre. Drawn by his
sulky looks and his touch of creativity,
she marries this Julien—and has two
years of stay-at-home drudgery. A side-
glance from Colombe at the postman or
an answering of the door in a night-dress
brings on a whole day or week of wrath.
In Sydney we seem to have been pretty
fortunate with our Anouilh productions
(in recent years we have seen most of
the important plays, including an im-
pressive University staging of “Waltz
of the Toreadors” which lives strongly
in the mind even after three years or so)
and Mr McVicker has done his best
work in this latest Pocket season On a
miniature stage, he and designei Bren-
dan Dunne have managed brilliantly to
suggest the big stage and dressing-room
areas of a Paris theatre. A few screens,
perfectly disposed, and treated with
scrupulous respect for their dramatic
meaning by the players, achieve all this.
Because all the players inhabit their
space perfectly, the audience, too, is per-
suaded to make a few square feet into
stage, star’s drawing room, dressing
rooms, and corridors full of comedy.
Marie Byron as the grand old actress,
seven times married mother of (and de-
spiser of) Julien, and Hugh Richardson
as her co-director, turn in thoroughly
craftsman-like performances.
KEVON KEMP
TELEVISION
Floorshows
the end of the ABC’s new
“Floorshow,” Joe Martin and Lorrae
Desmond sat together and one said,
“What will we sing?” My nerves jangled
like firebells. Sure enough, the other
replied, “How about the song we re-
hearsed this afternoon?” That was a
stock minstrel show routine in grandad’s
time, I’ve heard it lately on two Ameri-
can and two other Australian shows, and
I submit that the next performer to try
it should be fired, preferably from
Woomera.


TOP
ACCOMMODATION FOR
EXECUTIVES . . .
4
4
£
T
V
V
FIRST IN SYDNEY; FIRST FOR
CHARACTER, CONVENIENCE,
COMFORT.
• Just 3 miles from the heart of the city, 2
miles from Mascot Aerodrome.
• 3 Executive Suites, 1 Director's Suite and
32 standard and family suites.
• Individually controlled air conditioning. You
can open your window if you wish.
• 24-hour room and meal service.
• Laundry and valet service.
• Licensed restaurant.
• Private bathroom in every suite.
• Telephone, television, refrigerator and radio
in every room.
• Golf courses, beaches and other sporting
facilities. All within a few minutes of the
Travel Terminal. Overlooking Randwick Race-
course.
TRAVEL TERMINAL
2A Alison Road, RANDWICK. 39 7071
Telegrams: “TRAVTERM” RANDWICK
Stay 1 night, days or weeks and enjoy our comfort and service.
ICI3 43
This latest of the local shows is, as
the title says, like a floorshow, and in
setting, style and audience it strangely
resembled an earlier ABC effort, title
forgotten, hosted by one Hal Wayne.
I suppose someone had glanced into an
odd corner of some studio, noticed the
people gathering cobwebs there, and had
dusted them off, wound up four clock-
work chorus girls, hired Joe Martin, and
cunningly decided to give the show a
final shot through a doorway instead of
through Hal Wayne's wrought-iron gate.
Well, the ballet of four cuties worked
around about night club level, one act
of legerdemain was good, and Joe and
Lorrae sang tolerably together, thanks to
that rehearsal, but in the comedy sec-
tions Martin and his guest Dave Allen
were reduced to such gags as calling
Martinis “sips that passion the night.”
The other new national show, “Studio
A,” has two comperes in the Le Garde
Twins. They avoid weak gags and sing
lukewarm songs instead. But overlooking
them, this successor to “Revue 62” and
“Startime” began with much more
comedy, sending up a “Pro Arte Trio”
and “Carmen” most effectively. The
snow-white backgrounds have gone
another blessing.
“Studio A” has displaced the O’Keefe
show, “Sing, Sing, Sing,” which moved
to Saturday night in Sydney, making it
the loudest night of the week (with the
“Bryan Davies Show” and “Bandstand”
preceding it). From 6-8.30 p.m. you
can, if you want, hear nothing but noise,
noise, noise.
O’Keefe is one of the best of the
comperes, and is better now that his
introductory dialogues have been cut to
the bone and more acts provided—many
of them new voices and most of them
not too bad. J. O’K sings too, in that hot
gospel voice of his, and in comparison
I prefer the noise called “Move, Baby,
Move” to Bryan Davies’ finger-flipping
and leg-kicking attempts at the latest
jungle chants, or to Brian Henderson’s
conformist chatter.
These are all Sydney-produced shows.
Melbourne’s only contribution to night-
time variety and song is “The Graham
Kennedy Show,” and it is still the most
Australian in spirit and, in my almost
lone opinion, the best to watch. Snipped
from one week of “In Melbourne To-
night,” it always has a good balance of
comedy, song and dancing.
It is not made for the young, so the
singers are usually old ladies of 25 or
so, some of the humor is rough and
ready, and the Channel 9 dancers seem
to have some ideas behind them and the
ability to dance them out.
FRANK ROBERTS
FILMS
These Three
The Loudest Whisper. Director,
William Wyler. Century Theatre.
Sydney.
HThe theme of William Wyler’s “The
Loudest Whisper” is the total
destruction that can be wrought by a
baseless slander so monstrous that any
answer to it, however truthful, takes on
the appearance of an apology. Two
young women teachers (Audrey Hepburn
and Shirley MacLaine), just beginning to
succeed with a boarding-school for girls,
are accused of homosexuality. Their
traducer is a black-sheep pupil who
invents the falsehood out of malice and
bullies and blackmails a schoolfellow
into confirming it.
Innocence, the two teachers find, is no
defence. Even the doctor fiance of one
of them cannot help suspecting that
there may be some truth in the charge;
their school is ruined and they cannot
even walk in the grounds without
enduring the stares and sniggers of
passers-by. Also one of them is forced
to recognise that her affection for her
friend is indeed based on homosexual
love. In the end, a child’s wicked lie
destroys or damages everyone whom it
touches.
The basic plot could still make an
absorbing film if the treatment were
imaginative. But the screenplay (thanks,
1 imagine, to Lillian Heilman's “adapta-
tion”) mostly sticks with grim fidelity
to the outmoded stage banalities of Miss
Heilman’s original play, written in the
’thirties, “The Children’s Hour.”
“The Children’s Hour” is dated not so
much in theme as in attitude; the subject
of homosexuality may have been startling
in the 1930 s but is old hat nowadays.
Oddly enough, Wyler made it all seem
much more daring and shocking in
“These Three,” his earlier version of
the play, made in the days when Holly-
wood’s self-imposed censorship forbade
any reference to homosexuality and the
child’s story was changed to the accusa-
tion of a triangular love affair between
the doctor and the two women.
The acting is little better than
amateurish. In the child actress who
plays the troublemaker, Wyler had to
deal with a shattering lack of talent.
Audrey Hepburn barely registers; and
Wyler has performed the amazing feat
of conjuring a raucous and shallow per-
formance from Shirley MacLaine,
There is one fine piece of acting, from
Fay Bainter as the doting and finally dis-
illusioned grandmother. Her perfor-
mance (thanks to the creaky screenplay)
is necessarily theatrical and stylised, but
splendidly professional; and the film’s
only moment of real feeling comes in
the scene when she appears, old, shamed
and broken by her terrible though
honest mistake, to try to make amends.
BEVERLEY TIVEY


»<<
v\*'
nV' v '
vV"'
v c :
i
Well need
14 copies
of these o
our letterhead
by 3 o'clock
ONLY XEROGRAPHY’
MAKES THIS POSSIBLE
Push button copying on bond paper . . .
that's xerography, which works by static
electricity.
Xerography—in the form of the f Xerox 914
Office Copier gives you the world's
newest, most efficient copying process.
The Xerox 914 Office Copier copies anything
. . . from any colour. Even pages from thick
books. Sharp, clear, black on white copies
exact in every detail. Dry copies. Xero-
graphy fuses the image right into the paper.
Just dial the number of copies you want and
out they come 7 perfect copies a minute.
There’s nothing to buy you borrow our
machine and pay only for the copies you
make.
Call your Rank Xerox office now, or post
this coupon and arrange a demonstration.
* (you pronounce it zer-ography)
t Regd. Trade Mark
RANK
XEROX
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
49 Market Street, Sydney 2 0663
316 Queen Street, Melbourne 67 6185
163-7 Halifax Street, Adelaide 8 6963
Suite 5, Garema Arcade, Garema Place,
Canberra City 4 7575
164 Melbourne Street, Sth. Brisbane 4 3836
83 King Street. Newcastle B 1994
1095 Hay Street, Perth 21 2662
Cel to know more about the amazing Xerox 914 Office
Copier by posting this coupon now.
Could ! please: (Tick which applies):—
n Have more details of the Xerox 914 Office Copier.
0 Have a demonstration at the nearest Rank Xerox
sales office.
Name
Company
Address
245/63
ART
Thumb-Nail
Heroes
James Gleeson. Skinner Galleries.
Perth.
Tames Gleeson’s tiny paintings on
subjects from classical mythology,
with thumb-nail-sized heroes, achieve
what his larger surrealist works do not
for myself at least.
Sir Herbert Read, opening the present
show, compared Gleeson with advantage
to certain of the leading European sur-
realists. One would want to dissent even
from such an eminent judgment of
Gleeson’s merit perhaps if it were a
question of his large canvasses, his
visceral landscapes inhabited by nudes
from “Mr Musclebound Magazine.” But
in miniaturising his canvas, Gleeson
seems to have concentrated his vision:
these pictures work.
Looking like enamels or polished
slices of multi-colored rock, Gleeson’s
surfaces of marbled, combed and
variously dabbed paint have a spon-
taneity which is most striking, and which
contrasts powerfully with the meticulous
little figures, whose presence fixes our
reading of these polychromatic tur-
bulences as heroic landscapes. And this
contrast provides the surrealist shock
that Gleeson is after.
In a series of 90 paintings there are
bound to be a few misses, and there
are a few S.F. magazine covers, fake
Turners, Victorian chromos and even a
small set of bogus Blakes on show, but
these are the exceptions. For the most
part the pictures are eminently successful,
and to balance the failures there are a
handful of pre-eminently successful
things: a beautiful contemplative sur-
face of brown horizontal laminations,
punctuated in the exact centre by a nasty
little scene of Theseus stretched on the
bed of Procrustes; Aeolus giving
Odysseus the bag of the Winds in a
dramatic, rather Victorian landscape
a little reminiscent of Martin with
a mountain of pure rock-candy-marble.
The Purification of Apollo by King
Carmanor in a landscape of water where
marbled patterns reflect one another
with splendid symmetry; and the fine
nineteenth-century dramatics of Pelops
sacrificing to Cydonian Athena.
Technically, it is his restriction of
scale which enables Gleeson to produce
the exactness of finish which is, almost
always, an essential means to the effects
of surrealism. Dali and Delvaux, for
example, achieve their ends with
obsessively exact drawing and com-
pulsively finished surfaces: Gleeson’s


past work has simply not matched up to
the standards of the perfect, and no
doubt ruinously expensive, craftwork of
the Europeans. But by reducing his
scale so that the “happy accidents” of
pure painting can define landscapes still
small enough to look exquisite, and by
drawing in minute and detailed figures,
Gleeson has been able to tighten his
composition and heighten the tension of
his surfaces, without having recourse to
the kind of Royal Society of Banknote
Engravers’ finish which is usually needed
in surrealist painting.
Gleeson’s solution is a perfectly valid
and robustly painterly one, and, one
cannot help thinking, in a way very
Australian.
PATRICK HUTCHINGS
MUSIC
Full Value
At the first concert of its Australian
tour, the Budapest Quartet played
with the serene mastery that is only
acquired through many years of ex-
perience in playing together. This group
plays with such finesse and co-ordination
that it is able to dispense with the rather
energetic approach to music many
quartets cultivate, and to produce a
sound of splendid suavity and polish
without sacrificing any attention to detail.
So evenly blended is the quartet’s sound
that it is easy to overlook the artistry
with which the players allow every in-
flection of every part to come through
with complete clarity. In another group
this attention to surface texture and lack
of over-emphasis would soon pall. With
the Budapest Quartet one tends to forget
it because of the meticulousness and
artistry with which the music is per-
formed.
One aspect of the group’s poise and
restraint is its tendency to adopt rather
deliberate tempos. This succeeded most
of the time, but it made the slow move-
ment of Mozart’s A major quartet,
K. 464, which has a tendency to drag,
sound very long-winded indeed. It also
prolonged the agony unduly with Hinde-
mith’s fifth quartet, which like much of
this composer’s work is long on tech-
nique and short on inspiration, and
which ideally ought to be played as fast
as possible, so as not to take up too
much time. But the Brahms B flat
quartet was impeccable, and Brahms’
most engaging (if rather unappealing)
characteristics, his decorousness, his
Teutonic melancholy, and his nostalgia
v/ere given full value.
JOHN SMALL
Feiffer
mm m
&COH6 A v
■PARTOF tit N
tfm ro
Love.
mrem
toe love
toe MOST
VimMH
mmevM wo
yoooeoo ' •'
uoe must
WMM
mono: ,
ijjimtiß we
cousune we
tmrvhM
v&mn.
low
w
mm*
m too
vmemo
/u Motion
to \)oe-
on tovß
mem.


AUTHORS, SCRIPT WRITERS, Etc.
AVOID NEEDLESS REJECTIONS DUE TO
ERRORS IN TEXT
Expert interested in furthering Aust. literature will
read and correct for nominal fee only, 5/- payable
on submitting work plus 1/- 1,000 words. Similar
charge for full criticism of any work. Send mes-
sages to Barnett, Box 19, P. 0., Merryiands. Phone
635-5744 any time or (weekdays 9-5), 630-2776.
After hours only, 665-3795.
RED PAGE
The Great Misogynist
Henry James’s Women
By LEONIE KRAMER
Henry James, The Middle Years. Leon
Edel. Hart-Davis. 635.
ITMriting of “The Aspern Papers” Leon
" Edel says, “ . . . the tale is a
moral fable for all historians and bio-
graphers. It has dramatised, once and
for all, their anomalous role.” No fol-
lower of Mr Edel’s work on Henry James
needs to be reminded that he is both
a sensitive and searching biographer,
aware not only of the anomalies of his
task, but also of its responsibilities.
These, one suspects, have been particu-
larly heavy in this record of the ten
middle years of James’s life from
1884 to 1894. By this time, James had
passed through the first phase of his
“internationalism,” which culminated in
1891 in “The Portrait of a Lady.” He
was about to turn in “The Tragic Muse”
and “The Princess Casamassima,” to the
English scene, and in several of his
short stories to problems of the artist’s
life. In this period, too, he was to make
his strange and unsuccessful attacks upon
the English stage. And all the time he
was to move restlessly between London
and Italy, entering with zest into Floren-
tine and Venetian social life.
Of the many characters who crowd
the English and European scenes in Mr
Edel’s biography, two occupy a central
place. Both of them are women. The one
is James’s sickly, neurotic sister Alice,
whose constant appeals to his sense of
duty placed considerable restrictions
upon his freedom until her death in
1892. The other was Constance Feni-
more Woolson, great niece of James
Fenimore Cooper, whose relationship to
James is in a sense the real subject
of this volume, and gives to it the
flavor of an unresolved mystery.
Mr Edel approaches the analysis of
this situation with tact and impartiality.
James was of course fiercely protective
of his private life. He burnt many of
his letters and documents, and requested
that his correspondents did the same.
He even destroyed his own copy of
Alice’s journal, though there were others
in existence. Fairly early in their ac-
quaintance he exacted from Fenimore
Woolson a promise that she would des-
troy his letters to her. And after her
suicide he spent many hours with her
sister sorting through her papers, and
took away the letters of his own that
he found in her house.
Accordingly, Mr Edel has had to re-
construct the course of their friendship
from scraps of information even in-
scriptions in books—and from the evi-
dence of James’s literary preoccupations
and hers at various stages in their re-
lationship. The result is an absorbing
story, and also an illuminating one. It
has often seemed to me that James
and here all the Master’s disciples will
howl for revenge for all his subtlety
and psychological acumen, has some
curiously blind spots in his view' of
women. His attitude to Fenimore Wool-
son’s lonely life and despairing death is
an extraordinary example of his “in-
nocence.”
Tt is quite clear from Edel’s account
that she nourished an affection for him
w'hich was not wholly satisfied by literary
conversation, however grateful she may
have been for that. It seems equally
obvious that Henry was, or at least
chose to appear, unaware of this fact.
The notion that a woman of his owrn age,
of modest literary talents and no great
beauty, should desire more than intel-
lectual companionship seems not to have
occurred to him. He accepted her hos-
pitality on one occasion he occupied
a floor of her villa shared her meals
and commended her writing. But oddest
of all is the fact that when he thought
she had died of natural causes he pre-
pared to go to Rome for her funeral;
when he discovered that she had com-
mitted suicide he stayed away.
This may sound more like material
for a gossip columnist than for the
biographer of a great novelist; but Edel
demonstrates with great skill the extent
to w'hich echoes of this relationship and
the general problems it posed sound in
James’s work. By doing so he has il-
luminated several stories of the period,
and has shown how the shadow of these
events was cast into the future to,
for example, the death in “The Wings
of the Dove.” Not for nothing does he
declare that “The Beast in the Jungle”
is the hidden title of this biography.
On the other hand, in his desire to
interpret their relationship Edel does at
times ask too many literal questions of
James’s fiction. In a long, and admittedly
persuasive, analysis of “The Altar of the
Dead,” he argues that James has here
embodied the symbolic significance of
their involvement. In Stransom and the
nameless woman writer of the story he
sees an allegory of James and Fenimore.
In her, he argues, James felt that he
had found “disinterested devotion” en-
tirely suited to his own desire for free-
dom. But it seemed that by the manner
of her death she had laid claim to him,
that “his altar was spattered with her
blood.” This is a tempting interpretation,
and may indeed be accurate enough.
But there is a serious danger of doing
violence to James’s writing by asking it
to yield as much particular information
as this. Edel is on safer ground in draw-
ing attention to the fact that in 1894
James committed to his notebook the
plan for a story in which a writer dis-
covers after many years of “very happy,
unsuspecting, and more or less affec-
tionate, intercourse with a lady-writer”
that she has anonymously attacked his
books. It is easier, and possibly more jus-
tifiable, to see in this the evidence of his
personal conflict.
It is greatly to Mr Edel’s credit that
he does not allow this still mystifying
attachment to get out of perspective in
the biography. He holds in balance the
other elements of James’s life in this
decade his theatrical ventures, his
travels, his dinner parties, his meeting
wiiu Maupassant, his friendships with
Stevenson, Du Maurier and Gosse. And
from all these facets of his experience,
and from the tone of his writing
it was, after all. a very fruitful decade
there emerges a complex portrait of
the artist.
How one reacts to this must of neces-
sity be a personal matter, involved in the
end with one’s attitude to James’s fic-
tion. In my opinion Edel brings out
with special success two important as-
pects of his character and thought. One
is his attempt in this period to remove
himself still further from his puritan
inheritance. In this connection Edel
makes an interesting comment: that
James became aware that what he had
earlier depicted as decadent Europe w'as
in fact a facade behind which, it is true,
corruption might lurk: but which also
“concealed a life of liberty,” and which
offered “a veil of public decency, codes
and standards of judgment” for the pro-
tection of private life. Especially for the
protection of James’s private life, one
wonders? Yet his Puritanism died hard.
It shows in his critical attitude towards
Maupassant’s frankness; and it show's in
the clouds of ink in which, at moments
of crisis, he envelops his own char-
acters.


THE
GOLDEN
AGE
by GEOFFREY SERLE
A History of the Colony
of Victoria 1851-1861
Part of Australia’s greatest age
of colour and pageantry. “...A
remarkable book”, said noted
writer Alan Moorehead. 70s.
MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY PRESS
PAINTINGS OF TOM ROBERTS
by Robert Campbell
12 superb color reproductions
LIMITED ED. 5 gns. GENERAL ED. 3 gns.
Published by RIGBY LIMITED, ADELAIDE
The other particularly significant at-
titude is James’s view of the artist’s
rights. He subscribes to a highly romantic
conception of the artist as the heroic,
isolated figure for whom others make
sacrifices. In a conflict between life and
art, life must lose. The artist must not
be charged with the responsibilities of
ordinary life. Freedom is all. But free-
dom for whom? In an essay of this
period James drew attention to the self-
sacrificing natures of Fenimore Wool-
son’s fictional heroines. Was she her-
self a victim of artistic selfishness? Edel
points out that on a day in 1892 when
he had visited Fenimore at Oxford,
James set down in his notebook “The
Diary of a Man of Fifty.” In this tale
the hero, Glanvil, becomes aware of
a woman’s devotion to him. She rep-
resents, in James’s words, “the miracle
of heroic docilities and accepted pangs
and vanquished egotisms .... it was
impossible for him to see anything else
at last than that she was living for him.
The time of passion was over but the
time of service was long.” And, one
is tempted to add, the vanity of Glanvil-
James was unbounded. Might one not
postulate without introducing irrele-
vant feminist arguments that some
of the deficiencies of James’s art can be
traced to his eager adoption of the role
of recipient and Master?
West Wind
The Shoes of the Fisherman. Morris
West. Heinemann. 265.
fact had to be faced for there was
no getting around it. Horace Best
had finally run out of ideas for his best-
selling novels. His publishers hastily
called a meeting of the finest, sharpest
brains in the publishing business. “Best
is not joking,” said Blainey, the chief,
in his harsh, steel-edged voice while he
surveyed the table with his quizzical,
salmon-colored eyes. “He’s fresh out of
ideas. The Devil’s Advocate. The
Daughter of Silence. The Shoes of The
Fisherman. And now nothing. I need
hardly tell you what this means. The
goose that laid three of the largest
golden eggs in the history of publishing
has stopped laying. We need ideas,
gentlemen, the sort of ideas that,” he
paused reverently, “makes books that
sell 50,000 copies a day. Now then?”
Came then the voice of Smith of
Accounts. “Why not sequels to his
books?”
“You mean like The Devil’s Advocate
Rides Again?" Young Tufton’s voice was
shrill with excitement. “That’s a honey
of a title. We could easily work out a
plot.”
“No, that is not a good title as you
will agree on reflection. It might be
misconstrued,” interjected Blainey. “But
you’re getting hot.”
Time was when Beamish hardly raised
his voice, a shrewd, quiet man, but shy.
With awe he heard himself say, “How
about Son of The Daughter of Silence ?”
“Swell idea,” said Tufton. “We could
follow it up with Son of the Fisher —”
“No, we could not,” said Blainey test-
ily, “but Son of the Daughter of Silence
has possibilities. What about a plot?”
“Well, sir,” said Smith again, “as I see
it the original Daughter of Silence re-
covers from her psychosis where the
original book ends and migrates to Aus-
tralia where she learns to live with her-
self and eventually meets a rawboned
Irish-Australian named Kilpatrick and
marries him. It’s a heart-warming
migration story with all the problems of
assimilation, a new language, new ways.
Eventually she becomes a happy wife
and a well-adjusted mother and has
one son and three daughters . . .”
“Nothing very cosmic about it,” said
Blainey irritably.
“No, sir,” said Beamish, “but the story
could be continued through the son who
becomes a priest and the daughters who
become nuns.”
Came then an interruption from Smith.
“Wouldn’t it be better to let the son be
a priest and allow the daughters to grow
up three happy, dark-haired little maids,
their faces browned by an antipodean
sun, their lips full and red, their eyes
flashing and merry, their . . .”
“Yes, yes,” interrupted Blainey irritably.
“I think all of us here are familiar with
Mr Best’s prose style. It’s the story line
I’m worried about.”
Then spake Johnson of Advertising,
bluntly like the noise of train shunting.
“That would be the end of that book but
it could be followed by a sequel. The
Son of the Daughter of Silence becomes
a priest you see. A real dinkum Aussie
at heart though. He becomes a mission-
ary in New Guinea then a bishop, an
archbishop and then a cardinal. They
call him ‘Snowy’ Kilpatrick, he of the
high dome and wise, compassionate eyes.
He leads a life which is long, lonely too,
and solitary. Then he becomes . .
“Yes,” said Blainey warily v “and then?”
“Pope,” said Johnson enthusiastically.
“An Australian Pope. We could call it
Return of The Fisherman. The day after
his coronation he dirappears. The whole
world's in ferment. Where is he? He
can’t be found. Actually he’s gone on a
secret mission to Outer Mongolia to talk
to the Ruler of China, he of the craggy
eyebrows and jowly jaws, whom he
knows is caught in the dreadful cross-
currents of history, the flow of which he
cannot control but can only tack against.
He tells him the President of the United
States is also tacking steadily against the
cross-currents of history and that he too
does not want a cataclysmic atomic war.
And then . . .”
“We need a love interest,” said Blainey
bluntly.
“You mean, sir,” said Beamish, “a
passion so tumultuous, a mating so
abandoned that every sense is quickened,
every emotion surges up and spends itself
in a climax of union so intense . . .”
“That death itself seems only a whisper
away,” said Blainey quickly, determined
not to be shown up.
“Well, sir,” said Smith quietly, through
hooded eyes, “I suggest that one of the
sisters of the Son of The Daughter of
Silence should accompany him to China
and fall in love with the son of the top
Party theoretician. It’s a hopeless love
affair of course, doomed from the start
but . . .”
“You mean that never would he feel
so much a man or she so generously a
woman?” asked Riordan eagerly, “that
never would speech be stifled so quickly
by the outpourings of tenderness and the
transports of desire?”


LEARN
STORY
WRITING
STOTT'S CAN TRAIN YOU
SUCCESSFULLY
If you have a flair for writing, then STOTT'S
Literary Courses will develop your talent.
Practical Home-Study instruction, under the
guidance of expert instructors will teach you
to write successfully for Australian and
overseas markets. There is a constant
demand for well-written work in the lucra-
tive field of Authorship.
Write today for free details of Stott's Cor-
respondence Courses in Literary subjects.
I Stotts Correspondence!
eqe
159 Flinders Lane. Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; 254 Murray
Street, Perth.
I
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON 1
TO STOTT’S: Please send me, without any j
obligation, your Prospectus, and full particulars
of your Literary Courses. !
MY NAME {
ADDRESS
AGE
8.1463
“Exactly,” said Blainey. “He, of
course, would be one oddly young, oddly
alone. She would be dark haired, grave
but flashing-eyed and lithe as a cat.”
“And they’d have a son,” said Tufton
excitedly. “Half Chinese and half Aus-
tralian-Italian-Irish. Grandson of The
Daughter of Silence. And when he grew
up . .
PETER HASTINGS
Tri via
The Blackets. Morton Herman. Angus
and Robertson. 84s.
npHE Blackets, father and sons to the
■*" third generation, designed a prodigi-
ous number of churches and public build-
ings between the 1840 s and the 1880 s.
The father, Edmund, was particularly
successful, highly respected and is still
admired especially for the gracious
Gothic revival churches which he
built throughout Australia, and for his
work at the Sydney University. Whether
he was, as the blurb would have it,
“the greatest architect Australia has pro-
duced” is arguable, and may not give
him much standing anyway, but he could
certainly lay claim to being our most
substantial architect. For this reason no
doubt the publication of a study on the
man and his work is to be welcomed.
Unfortunately for the study what sur-
vives of the man, apart from his build-
ings, makes very dull reading. Morton
Herman appears to have taken great
pains to collect the trivia which a solid
respectable citizen scatters behind him,
and seems in his documentation of
Blacket’s life to have been reluctant
to waste any of his efforts. The man
simply does not emerge with any in-
terest, and the attempts to round him
out by placing him in his times become
dreary digressions. Blacket’s work could
make a valuable monograph on minor
mid-Victorian architecture. Inflated with
what is often mid-Victorian prose into
over two hundred pages, it is more for
antiquarians than for historians.
BILL HANNAN
Bearing Thistles
Australia in World Affairs 1956-
1960. Edited by Gordon Greenwood
and Norman Harper. F. W.
Cheshire for the Australian In-
stitute of International Affairs. 635.
A ustralia’s external policies show the
imprint of comparatively few per-
sonalities. Hughes certainly, and Deakin
earlier: Evatt in his time and a sly touch
of Chifley here and there. One of the
major interests of this new volume
of “Australia in World Affairs” is how
clearly there emerges from between its
scholarly lines the image of our chief
foreign-policy maker for the time con-
cerned. Not, however, the image of the
then Minister for External Affairs, Mr
Casey, but looming over his shoulder,
a little larger and more florid than life,
the image of the Prime Minister. Un-
doubtedly this is mostly due to the
character of the events chronicled, for
both the resounding row that begins
the period, Suez, and the running battle
that dominated it for Australia, that
over West New Guinea, offered a larger
scope for the Prime Ministerial talents
than the comparatively picayune business
of normal day-to-day foreign relations
for Australia.
This volume is the work of a number
of hands, or perhaps one might say of
a precision of professors. Professors
Gordon Greenwood and R. H. Green-
wood deal with the Australian back-
ground of foreign policy and Australia’s
economic relations, Professor Geoffrey
Sawer with the United Nations, Pro-
fessor Norman Harper with Australia’s
relations with America, Professor Mac-
mahon Ball with relations with Japan,
J. A. C. Mackie with relations with
Indonesia, R. G. Neale with India, Pro-
fessor John Andrews with New Guinea
and Nauru, and Neil Gunson with Aus-
tralia and Antarctica. The series is a
valuable enterprise for students of Aus-
tralian foreign policy.
And in this particular case, as was
said, one clear central picture emerges—-
despite the multiplicity of authors the
central picture of the Prime Minister,
endeavoring to rise above the limitations
of his material, a Cavour of Canberra,
a Talleyrand of Toorak. No one can
doubt that the business of foreign-policy-
making for a small power is a difficult
one in the contemporary world, especi-
ally when, as with Australia, the national
community is rather intransigent about
ends and rather parsimonious about
means. A small power’s choices have
never been wide: these days it can
count itself lucky if geography or his-
tory allow it to choose its own allies.
Sir Robert is, of course, an adherent
of the “great and powerful friends”
theory of our foreign policy. Mr Calwell
once accused him of tuning into Wash-
ington on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fri-
days, and to London on Tuesdays,
Thursdays and Saturdays. Yet when
doubts on the wisdom of this mode of
policy-formulation creep in, they may
well be stilled by contemplating the
results of our more independent initia-
tives. As Professor Macmahon Ball
notes, almost every other foreign policy
issued since 1945 has been obscured or
compromised by our relations with “our
powerful friends,” but Australia’s stand
on West New Guinea has been its own.
When one meditates on the results in
power-terms of that fourteen years of
pointless friction one feels a certain
relief that various other locally-con-
ceived schemes, even more pregnant with
disaster, died aborning the scheme
for a two-tiered structure of the Com-
monwealth, for instance. And the chief
issue on which we resisted American
policy-lines in East Asia was to grumble
at their using their agricultural surpluses
to feed the hungry, since this exercise
in benevolence undercut the economic
interests of one of our richer and more
vocal pressure-groups.
To have seen eye to eye with Britain
and France on Suez, but with the Ameri-
cans on whether the capital of China
is in Peking or Taiwan, with the South
Africans on whether their racial policies
were compatible with membership of the
Commonwealth, and with the French on
whether their methods were likely to
pacify Algeria there is a consistency
here, if only in an invariable preference
for unreality. Recalling the derivation
from the two princes of Serendip of
that useful word, serendipity, the pro-
pensity to make fortunate discoveries
by accident, one is tempted to hazard
a parallel coinage, from our local mag-
nate, for the propensity to espouse the
more unfortunate of two causes when
offered a choice. Perhaps “carduosity”:
as the dictionaries put it, lit. a tendency
to bear thistles fig. of foreign policy.
CORAL BELL


POETRY
Court of the Sun King
“Sire, you honour me.” The mirror is cold
and courtier, courtier smiles to the man King.
Success may be a nod, a word from him,
and is negotiable. King among
these purchases is sun indeed, and gold
for praying to, door to a sought room,
key in a lock and lock may turn to a finger?
(Back! Bones may yet crack in King’s anger.)
And such a stir around him where he goes!
He names so many benefits, who will
admit him mortal? Well, mirrors hold
a certain part of fact, though courtiers fall
among themselves in bickering and lose
belief, draughts enter corridors, and soiled
perruques itch sorely, lice corrupt fine manners:
Excrement is left abroad in corners.
A price for servitude? Who’s free? Who would
be free? Only the present comfort counts.
Squirm in your new-made silks. These splendid rooms
are no warm residence. Then play and dance;
let spices ease the heavy air. Outside
lean beggars curse and are abroad. (Who comes
too close?) Dance, courtiers, quickly, round your sun.
That sound was nothing. Bring more pageants on.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT
In Praise of Wet Roads
The rain on fire beats spire and steeple and stack
down the long drain
the lightninglash of cars zips darkness down
and lets the rackred taillight out
while high and zigzag navigation stars
plane to the drome
At home in the big city, midnight or near it
pushes night's lidded brightness round the clock
till dawncock roosters roistering morning up.
These nightgemmed roads in tramlines and the weave
of cracks and creases net the studded sky
till dawn or dryness finally releases
its flame, till dust and bonedead midday state
our feet’s abode. Heavy with clay our feet remain
dull mundane drudges of a trudging load
till, sown by rain, night’s harrowed darkness bears
moonshine and lights, and flagging feet are given
to pave between a heaven and a heaven.
ANDREW TAYLOR
Baby Galah
Murdering the bush quiet,
Your clamouring parents
Found you this haven, little pincushion.
Here, twenty feet above the ground,
In a rounded cell going straight down
Into the trunk were you born, little curvebeak.
Here, your mother, nervous harridan among birds,
Warmed you through the cold spring nights,
Fed you full on stolen grain.
In the afternoons, with stray shafts of sun
Slashing your piteously naked body,
You must have felt extremely safe.
GRIFFITH WATKINS
St John's Park, New Town
Often I walk alone
Where bronze-green oaks embower
John Lee Archer’s tower
Of solid Georgian stone.
Tradition is held there,
Such as a land can own
That hasn’t much of one.
I care but do I care?
Not if it means to turn
Regretful from the raw
instant and its row.
The past is not my law:
Queer, comical, or stern,
Our privilege is now.
JAMES MCAULEY
Off the Brochure
The view from the top of Mount Eden is really worth
The trouble taken of climbing the steep and inadequate
Sheep-haunted track that passes for a path,
Dodging the time-pressed drivers that berate
With honk and glare, with fume and livid numberplate.
Eastward the coast and the far ocean overhung
With faint haze, essence of infinity
And complaints of the sinus. The sheltered tongue
Tastes a delicate salt smoothly, inwardly
As a sleeping mollusc might or a shelled entity.
Look beyond the harbour to its island tenants:
Big awkward visitors come up for the country’s season,
Putting up stolidly with the inconvenience
Of a temporarily straitened accommodation:
Rangitoto, Motuihi, Waiheke in vague collusion.
In that great gulf they spread skirts black to the hems
Of beach, or squarely plant big boots of rock,
Leaning towards each other to dully condemn
Absence of adequate fauna or the general lack
Of hot and cold running springs, taking peevish stock.
Though not even the prevalence of parasites (or sheep)
Brings fiery upsurge to those cloud-white communings,
Under the stiffness of joints, in the seeming sleep
Of limbs beneath their dark and heavy coverings,
Youth moves memory-deep in the carbuncle of its
sufferings.
But here the sheep eventually get one down,
Down, down. Now, in the road, between traffic
A day-old lamb like a discarded all but unwound
Child’s toy, teeters and bleats its pathetic
Case. Its need is minute and emphatic.
It has dried blood on its grey forehead, is stunned
And, much too young to cope with appearances, stands
Looking for another maternal machine to run to.
(It seems then the fallacious instinct never ends
In sheep and humankind, in animals with glands.)
I lift and feel its grizzled frame, peculiarly
Rough and dry (though surely a lamb should feel soft
And moist-warm as sunned cloudlet from country
Sky?) Its mother elsewhere, below, aloft,
Knows no pressure of the udder, is not bereft.
Carrying and dropping it among elders in a pen
I wonder will it starve there or be found
By the rationally considerate breeder between
Now and then. Still feeling that small heart pound,
One more dilemma unresolved, I reach level ground.
BRUCE BEAVER


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
The Big Gunn Goes Into Action
Big Gunn from Goondiwindi is
going into action again.
A couple of years ago Sir William
Gunn, then chairman of the Australian
Wool Bureau, ran a bunch of trailing
public relations men into the ground in
a hectic whistle stop campaign to double
the wool promotion levy to 10s. a bale.
This time the Goondiwindi grazier—
they call him the Big Gunn because he
stands 6ft 3in and weighs close to 18st—
is out after bigger came ... he wants
a wool promotion levy rise from 10s.
to £2 10s. a bale!
And nobody is better qualified to
talk conservative, penny-wise woolmen
into spending this sort of money than
tough, fast-talking, efficient Bill Gunn.
A skilled businessman, a past-master
at wool “politics,” and an able strategist,
he has the facts and figures of the
wool industry at his fingertips. He never
shilly - shallies. He answers questions
straight from the shoulder, no matter
how awkward . . . and woolgrowers seem
to appreciate his frankness.
He is no sparkling orator. Even in
the wool world he hasn’t the emotion
of an Everett, the vocal power of a Mc-
Lennan or the suavity of a Vines. But
his arguments are iriesistible.
Meetings chaired or addressed by Bill
Gunn tend to run to a pattern. The local
wool “leaders” arrive wary and sus-
picious of the big Queenslander with a
reputation for twisting men around his
little finger. They are determined to cut
him down to size. But by the time he
has finished speaking they are more than
half sold, and by the time he has grinned
his way convincingly through their
thorniest questions they are ready to go
out and persuade their neighbors to
back him.
No other major Australian primary
industry has a man quite like Bill Gunn
. . . more is the pity.
Gunn does not suffer fools lightly,
however, and expects his subordinates
and colleagues to work at his own
murderous pace.
The itinerary for the first three days
of the six month Australian Wool Board
levy campaign to be launched later this
month bears an unmistakable Gunn
imprint.
On July 29 Sir William starts the day
in Melbourne and by midnight will have
addressed meetings in the Wimmera
wheat-wool town of Warracknabeal and
the Western District hot-bed of reserve
price fanaticism, Hamilton.
On July 30 he skips across the Vic-
torian border into South Australia to
speak at Naracoorte, then races back to
Victoria for a meeting in the tiny wool-
minded centre of Beaufort.
On July 31 he really begins to get into
his stride and crams three meetings into
a day—Benalla, Albury and Sale —get-
ting back to Melbourne at midnight.
Three days . . . five woolgrower meet-
ings . . . three States.
And this is just the beginning of the
levy campaign.
Sir William won’t be alone, of course.
Either with him, or on their own, other
Wool Board members, board staff and
some International Wool Secretariat
staff will also speak at grower meetings
all over the Commonwealth between
now and January 11—the deadline for
the levy decision.
By the time the campaign is over a
large proportion of Australia’s 110,000
woolgrowers will have had a chance to
hear, first-hand, the facts of the inter-
national wool situation.
If they are not convinced of the need
to boost expenditure on international
wool promotion it will not be Sir William
Gunn’s fault . . . and he has the con-
solation that in the final analysis he has
to convince only 26 men.
Twenty-six of the 50 members of the
Australian Wool Industry Conference
would give him the majority vote he
needs for the increased levy.
And, even before the levy campaign
begins, it is already pretty certain that
he will get at least this majority.
Garden Flowers as Farm Pests
An increasing number of Western Vic-
torian municipalities, concerned at
the spread of Cape Tulip, are pressing
for Government aid in finding a cheap
spray to kill this menace to primary in-
dustry which, crowding out useful crops,
is said to be poisonous to stock.
Already Horsham, St Arnaud, Kara
Kara, Kowree, Arapiles, Dimboola, Wim-
mera and several Western District Shires
have reported the weed’s incursions on
fertile soil Lowan Shire, however, claims
that Cape Tulip, though a problem in
watered town gardens, has not yet in-
vaded its drier agricultural land.
Proclaimed a noxious weed only in
some shires, bulbs and seeds of Cape
Tulip are inadvertently beinv. spread fur-
ther afield by road graders, rivers and
channels For the most part its inroads
are now too extensive for the surest
eradication method, deep digging and
hand-sifting the bulbs, but ploughing at
the right time does deter its spread.
Experiments made by the Victorian
Lands Department 12 years ago at St
Arnaud, and later by Department of
Agriculture officers in Kowree Shire, have
resulted in a chemical spray that will
kill Cape Tulip; but the cost is pro-
hibitive. Landowners can, however, ob-
tain a 12} p.c. rebate on the retail cost
of any sprays they use against this weed,
but some claim that the Government
should provide a subsidy for buying suc-
cessfully tested sprays. All are agreed on
the urgent need of research to discover
an effective but inexpensive spray.
Introduced because of its pretty flower,
Cape Tulip may be only one of several
garden plants which, similarly spread by
bulbs and seeds, could become a menace
outside the garden. A Wimmera Shire
councillor admits that some innocent pink-
flowered “four o’clocks” escaped from
his garden five years ago and now are
spread over five acres of his farm. Free-
sias could also give trouble if, like other
rapidly reproducing garden plants, they
are allowed to spread outside the garden.
MARIEL LEE
Crops Without Ploughing
Tn a few years British farmers on light
and medium soils will be growing
crops without ploughing, according to
Mr H. R. Soper, lecturer in agriculture
at Oxford University.
At the university farm, strips of light
gravel land have not been ploughed for
five years. Seedbeds for crops have been
prepared with disc harrows and cultiva-
tors. Mr Soper says it is easier to get
a seedbed with a few strokes of the
harrow than after conventional
ploughing.
So far there has been no difference
between yields from the non-ploughed
strips and those from ploughed strips.


FINANCE AND THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Industry’s Role In Malaysia
AUSTRALIANS can rejoice that the Federation of Malay-
sia will be formally inaugurated on the planned date,
August 31. From the latest news even the irritatingly
reluctant Brunei looks like being ready to come to the party.
At this stage there should remain not the slightest need
to labor the abiding importance of the merger of these five
separate Asian States Malaya, Singapore, North Borneo,
Brunei and Sarawak.
In an area liable to be rent by the struggle of raw national-
isms, political and economic, a successful Federation must
surely stand as a valuable model of stability and progress.
World considerations aside, Australia’s concern is obvious.
This country’s ever-broadening connection with its north-
ern neighbors has just received further official recognition.
The United Nations’ Economic and Social Council did not
hesitate to admit Australia to full membership of the Eco-
nomic Commission for Asia and the Far East (ECAFE).
On the verge of the Malaysian adventure local business
interests, too, are showing a veritable burst of fresh enter-
prise directed especially towards Malaya and Singapore. The
export programme and the industrial diversification of largely
under-developed territories may be happily wedded.
Financial lubrication and expertise for much of this most
desirable activity proceeds from the recently formed South-
east Asia Development Corporation Ltd., an investment
banking group initiated by Development Finance Corporation
of Australia. The new institution brings together capital from
banking and finance houses and industrialists in Australia,
New Zealand, the United Kingdom, Europe, North America,
Malaya, Singapore, the Philippines and Hong Kong.
ffcNLY a short time before SEADC was launched the Aus-
tralian Guarantee Corporation had joined with the old-
established Chartered Bank to spread the benefits of hire
purchase and similar facilities in the Malaysian ambit. Private
industrial investment constitutes the most urgent demand of
the Federation territories, however.
That, to begin with, is what makes the moves of PGH
Industries and McDonald Industries so significant.
They are helping to diversify an economy still highly de-
pendent on primary production and world prices for rubber,
tin and oil. If industrialisation from whatever source gathers
pace, they will aid Malaysia’s Government to direct more
of its public funds into necessarily increased defence com-
mitments and into basic development.
Those situations, though, introduce large considerations.
For the present context it is abundantly worthwhile to con-
centrate upon Australian industry’s advantages in extending
to Malaysia and the financial method it has adopted.
Many of our better manufacturers possess undoubted
ability in smaller-scale factory operations, which exactly fit
into South-east Asia’s immediate stage of development. The
call does not go out for size and vast equipment outlay.
Rather is it for moderate initial ventures and, above all,
for technical knowledge.
With a few obvious exceptions (BHP and some mining
enterprises for example), Australia’s own industrial expan-
sion has not been accomplished by notably large units. This
characteristic, linked with certain political factors, gives us
advantages in Malaysia perhaps denied to countries like Brit-
ain and Japan.
Above all, both PGH and McDonald, under distinct en-
couragement from their financial midwife, have decided to
allow local capital participation from the very beginning.
The merits of partnership are not sacrificed to plain commer-
cial gain.
PGH becomes the major shareholder and manager of
Ceramics (Malaysia). McDonald goes into a joint venture
company, National Construction, with the local United Malay
Contractors owning a 55 p.c. interest.
The same proportion is maintained in the National Timber
Company Ltd, set up by Moore Le Messurier Pty, of Aus-
tralia, and United Malay Timber Industries.
TI/FcDonald and PGH widen their partnership appeal by
offering to train Asian graduates of Australian universities
for positions in the joint companies.
The lessons should not be lost on any Australian industrial-
ist now deciding to play a part in Malaysia. His know-how
and skills can assuredly accelerate the area’s vital industrial-
isation. His willingness to share the financial rewards must
also strengthen Australia’s role in a crucial historical ex-
periment.
It is fair to say that opportunities exist for Austral-Malay-
sian partnerships involving almost every known type of
industry. Establishment in Malaysia offers growth prospects
not available in a more sophisticated and advanced Australia.
The motor industry, for example, could examine the pros-
pects for a component and allied assembly plant based on
knocked-down Australian exports.
Success in Malaysia would be followed quickly by similar
arrangements throughout the Pan-Malay States, bringing in
the Philippines and, more important, the 100-million potential
customers in economically rich but industrially bankrupt
Indonesia.
That partnership arrangements are not only politically
desirable but economically essential can be judged from the
recent spate of equity offerings by other than the new Aus-
tralian ventures. New issues in Malaysia have included Dun-
lop Rubber, Esso, Shell, Rothmans, Malayan Containers (a
former ACI subsidiary), Hotel Singapura and Hume (Mal-
aya) Ltd (a former subsidiary of Humes Ltd).


GOVERNMENT BONDS
TOO ATTRACTIVE
HPhe scene: Parliament House, Canberra. The date: August 7,
■*" 1962. The speaker: Harold Holt MP, Treasurer of the
Commonwealth of Australia.
“On these estimates, expenditures by the Commonwealth
this year will exceed the total of its revenues, loan proceeds
and the cash available to it from trust funds by £ 118,328,000.
I shall explain these estimates later .... Here, however, I
state it chiefly as signifying the determination of the Govern-
ment to follow through with its expansionary programme
until the economy is operating at the highest level of activity
we can hope to sustain.”
The estimates proved wrong by a long stick, especially on
the revenue angle. In fact, instead of an “expansionary”
deficit, the Commonwealth finished the 1962-63 year with a
surplus of £16,100,000. Indeed, the surplus would have
been at least £4O million if the Treasurer had gone ahead
with the usual third Commonwealth Loan for the year in
May. Seeing how the wind was blowing, he deferred it.
The major error in the estimates lay in the assessment
of the Commonwealth’s ability to raise money in loans. The
1962 Budget forecast that loans, mainly because “it is im-
probable the trading banks will have as much to invest as in
1961-62” would raise £215 million in 1962-63 £2B mil-
lion less than in 1961-62.
But the Treasury erred greatly in its assessment. For the
trading banks as well as other major institutions were not
less flush with investible funds but, with investment in things
private remaining sluggish for a variety of reasons, they
actually had considerably more to place in Government loans.
In fact, despite cancellation of the May 1963 cash loan,
Government revenue from loans climbed to £317 million
including £65.6 million from overseas just on £lO2 mil-
lion or 47.4 p.c. more than the estimate.
Commonwealth bonds, indeed, dominated the investment
scene for a numberd of reasons, not the least of which was
the high interest rate offered on them. Funds which the
Budget hoped would flow into private industry were diverted
into the more attractive (for the moment) official securities.
The harsh November 15, 1960, measures, in part, aimed
at making private investment less attractive than public in-
vestment to quell the speculative boom. It had succeeded,
and, in the absence of any move to lessen the attractions of
Commonwealth bonds, was continuing to do so.
ITere, the Treasury erred. It emerges, once again, that
JLA Canberra’s inflexible attitude towards interest rate
mechanisms (despite their disadvantages) has fauled up the
works.
Instead of reducing the attractions of Commonwealth se-
curities late in 1962, the Treasury dithered; invoked tentative
plans to reduce the whole interest rate structure through use
of bank rates and did that too late (March) to be effective
in the Budgetary year.
In fact, as we move towards the next Budget on August 13,
we have no official knowledge that the major Government
interest rate has been reduced at all, for by avoiding long-
term offerings in the April conversion and abandoning the
May cash loan, the Treasury has avoided the necessity of
fixing a long-term bond rate. Moves in lesser rates short
term securities, Treasury notes and semi-Government bodies
indicate a major reduction in the interest offered on long-
term bonds, but only indicate it.
Money market circles talk of a coupon rate of £4 10s.
to £4 12s. 6d. p.c. on the next loan. We don’t know. It
wouldn’t surprise if the actual rate remained at £5 p.c. and
the tax rebate attraction (2s. in the £ 1 of income rebatable)
was removed. Or, indeed, the contentious 30/20 legislation
which compels life office organisations and superannuation
funds to purchase Government securities could be removed.
(Although at current rates those bodies would still buy bonds
presumably.)
But, whatever is done, a lessening of the influence of
Commonwealth bonds is needed to allow the best means of
stimulation of the private sector cheap money to flow
in that direction.
To reverse November 1960!
This, unfortunately, dims prospects for a liberal 1963-64
Budget. For, granted that it is desirable to reduce Common-
wealth cash loan revenue, it may prove mathematically diffi-
cult to lessen revenue from other sources.
CAPITAL PROVISION
AT LOW LEVELS
THhat Commonwealth Bonds are attracting most investment
attention is confirmed in the latest set of new capital
raising statistics from Canberra. For these statistics show
that the investing public at least until March this year
was treating corporation investment with scorn. Or, perhaps,
corporations, still winded by the 1960-61-62 difficulties, don’t
want more capital unless it is decidedly cheaper than was
the case during the 1960 boom.
Whatever the reason, the following table is enlightening,
or depressing, depending on how you view these things.
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTED COMPANIES
Shares Debentures Total
Notes, etc. Raisings
Year £ mill. £ mill.
1954- 59.7 27.6 87.3
1955- 59.2 52.7 11 1.9
1956- 43.7 51.5 95.2
1957- 35.2 81.7 1 16.9
1958- 48.7 142.2 190.9
1959- 47.9 200.4 248.3
1960- 98.5 120.4 218.9
1961- 76.3 99.9 176 2
1962- 56.4 106.0 162.4
(nine months
rate)
PRIORITIES IN
EXPORT PROBLEMS
Speaking in Melbourne at the presentation of the Hoover
Awards for Marketing, Sir John Allison, chairman of
the Export Development Council, gave some priorities for
the problems facing Australian industry in its export efforts.
For primary industry, he said, the problem was essentially
one of marketing, for minerals almost wholly one of exploration
and for secondary industry, the twin problems of cost-level
and marketing.
Thus, he said, in the two great elements of primary and
secondary industries, marketing was the common key. “You
can imagine, therefore, how pleased we were in the Export
Development Council when we learned that there was to be
a special Hoover award for export marketing.” (Won, incident-
ally, by Century Storage Battery Co. Ltd).
Going on to the second element in the marketing of
secondaries overseas stability in cost levels Sir John con-
sidered this to be one of the real achievements of the economic
policy of the Government in the last three years. “Our cost
level in Australia has been held steady for a longer period
than at any other time since cost indices were established,”
he said.
The main Hoover award for marketing in 1963 was won by
the SEC in Victoria for its briquettes, which are even invading
Sydney. Awards of merit were made to Queensland Tropical
Fruit Products (Golden Circle) on the domestic scene, and
to Martin Wells Pty Ltd for its exports of optical wear.


mi
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
PAID UP CAPITAL £775.000
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
• The Registered Office of the
Company, William & Crown
Sts., Sydney. Telephone 31-0322
Financing the
distribution by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies of
world - famous
products
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FQRDSGN
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 27/3/63, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
B
MELBOURNE’S FIRST
SHARE INDEX
Stock Exchange of Melbourne can
hold its head a little higher now
that it has its own index of share prices.
The only previous index of Melbourne
share movements, before the SE’s offi-
cial 50 leading industrial ordinary share
index was produced last week with fig-
ures going back to January, 1960, was
that of the Melbourne Herald which,
as its owners have admitted, started off
on the wrong foot in the early thirties
by purporting to be more of a mirror
of economic recovery from the then de-
pression rather than a sensitive or even
representative reflector of the market
trend.
Moreover the Herald’s index at present
needs to be modernised or extensively
refurbished to reflect the true market
picture anything like as accurately as
the SE’s first infant, even though the
latter, which has been in the weaning
process since 1960, is still not as robust
as might have been possible.
Although this new 50-leaders index
may eventually give place to an index
built on a much wider basis of at least
250 stocks, it is apposite to its useful-
ness to say that far too many of the
stocks in it have faded from importance
in market interest compared with when
they were chosen three years ago to
justify the SE’s claim that it is fully
representative of the leaders in the Mel-
bourne market.
As explained in Economics Anony-
mous (see page 48) the index is based
on aggregate market value of the total
number of shares of the 50 stocks, and
is therefore essentially an index of mar-
ket capitalisation, the weighting of the
various stocks being determined auto-
matically by the relative number of listed
shares in them. It will therefore be a
certain guide to the fluctuations in the
total amount of funds going into this
group of shares.
But will it be representative of the
volume of funds going into the whole
market for ordinary shares? The authors,
which include the ANZ Bank, say it will
because the new index traces practically
the same course over the last three
years as their trial index embracing 500
shares.
If that is the case it still remains
doubtful whether the content of the new
index will allow it to prove its salt as
a sensitive indicator of the market trend.
For that particular purpose one is more
attracted to the separate indices now
being constructed for the 15 industrial
groupings, which, as explained in Econ-
omics Anonymous, also have attractions
for the economic analyst.
At this stage it would perhaps be in-
vidious to compare too closely the new
Melbourne index with the recently re-
vised ordinaries index of the Sydney
Stock Exchange, because the latter, with
its recently increased coverage now em-
bracing 200 stocks, does not claim to
be an index of leading stocks, but a rep-
resentative one of the whole market in
ordinary shares.
On the other hand the 50 stocks in
the new Melbourne index represent as
much as 41 p.c. of the total market
capitalisation of ordinary shares on the
exchange in September, 1962, admittedly
less than two-thirds of the 65 p.c. cov-
ered by the revised Sydney index, but
still quite an appreciable slice of the
market.
At any rate, with the Sydney SE ord-
inary share index now more truly rep-
resentative of that market and Mel-
bourne’s new index launched and others
up its sleeve, the two main financial
centres are reasonably well provided for
in this direction, but it is hoped that
one of them will soon try its hand at
constructing a weighted index of ord-
inary share yields.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
New Weapons for the Armory
will welcome the latest ad-
dition to their analytical armory
provided by the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne’s new index of industrial
share prices. Not so much for the first
leg, the new index of the 50 leading
stocks, which saw the light of day last
week, but more because the 15 industrial
groupings chosen for the more compre-
hensive index (which will embrace 250
stocks) have, inter alia, been designed
to run parallel with existing official
industrial classifications.
This is not to say that the present
14 industrial groupings in the Sydney
Stock Exchange’s index of ordinary
shares which incidentally has been
made considerably
more comprehensive
by the recent sprink-
ling of another 50
stocks among the
groupings, bringing
the total number of
stocks to 200 —has
not served a very
useful purpose in
economic analysis in
the past. Nor, for
that matter, will it
cease to do so now
that Melbourne has
at long last come up
with an index of its
own market. For
there are still shades
of difference in the
national economic
reflections seen in
the two markets.
As would be expected, a good many,
in fact ten, of the groupings chosen for
the new Melbourne index are common
to both Sydney and Melbourne. Of these
half are coincident with the Common-
wealth Statistician's industrial groupings,
for which a very comprehensive set of
statistics on most economics counts is
provided on an annual basis. The five
are electrical (including radio and tele-
vision), engineering (including steel),
building and construction, automotive
and food, drink and tobacco. The other
five are the same as the industrial classi-
fications of all industries for the 1961
census. These are banks (including trus-
tees and insurance), other finance, pas-
toral, non-ferrous metals and transport.
For all of these there is a pretty com-
prehensive range of official statistics on
economic performance.
However, the classifications of the
two indices for the rest of the field
differ from one another. Four out of the
additional five in the Melbourne index
are of much more value to the economist
than the other four in the Sydney index.
The fifth other Melbourne grouping (tex-
tiles, clothing and leather) differs from
its Sydney counterpart only by the in-
elusion of leather, which doesn’t make
all that difference.
The superiority over Sydney of the
demarcation of these four non-co-ter-
minus Melbourne groupings (but not
necessarily the selection of stocks or
their weightings because these are not
yet available for the Melbourne group-
ings) has to be recognised not only by
economists but also by everybody, be-
cause it is in this area that even Sydney’s
best friends have long admitted its index
was of little value either to economic or
strictly market trend interpretation.
Take the Sydney classification of what
is called "trade and services.” As a com-
mentator recently pointed out, some of
the stocks included in this group, such
as Country Television Services, Bebar-
falds and Federal Hotels, are not very
closely related. Moreover, the grouping
has grown unwieldy. (Three more stocks,
TV Corporation, Astor Hotel Motels and
Publishers’ Holdings were added to it in
the recent revision of the index).
So, quite rightly, the new Melbourne
index splits the group up and, though
not perfect by any means, the two re-
sulting groups have a more homogeneous
flavor than Sydney’s single grouping.
These two groups are services, including
entertainment and accommodation, and
merchants, including both retail and
wholesale. These two Melbourne group-
ings have the advantage of coinciding
with the 1961 census industrial classi-
fications.
Melbourne has also done a good job
in departing from Sydney’s “basic mater-
ials” grouping, by separating chemicals
from paper and printing. The Melbourne
grouping “chemicals” is the same as the
three industrial classifications of factor-
ies used by the Commonwealth Statisti-
cian for chemicals, paints, oils, plastics
and gasworks. Gas and oil were ob-
viously difficult customers to find a
home for, once Melbourne decided to
omit the Sydney grouping, “fuel, light
and power,” but Ampol, Sleigh, Boral,
CIG and so on will doubtless find it
comfortable, while of course coal mining
in Victoria is practically a State
monopoly.
Maybe with such a small number of
big companies, the separate classification
for paper, printing and stationery rather
flatters this trade, but it is understood
that newspapers will make up a worth-
while weight for it, and this is certainly
a better place for
them than, as in
the Sydney index,
squashed in with
hotels, developers
and chemist shops
under “Trade and
Services.”
Economists and
market followers in
general might hope
that Sydney goes one
step further in re-
forming its index
and splits up some
of the above men-
tioned incongruous
categories and even
for the sake of ease
in understanding,
accuracy and in day-
to-day calculation
of its index transfer
to an aggregate market value base as
used for the Melbourne index.
The aggregate market value is de-
rived simply by multiplying the number
of shares issued by the various com-
panies in the index by their respective
prices at the base date. With this base
the index can be easily and quickly
computed at any time, with allowance
for the various exigencies of the market
which sometimes play havoc with other
forms of indices new issues (bonus
or for cash or other assets), dividends,
new listings, delistings and takeovers.
Briefly, these factors can all be in-
corporated into the index immediately
they occur by a linking procedure,
which involves revision of the previous
AMV e.g., a cash issue involves re-
vising the previous AMV upward by
the amount of cash subscribed; a de-
listing involves reducing the previous
AMV by the market value of the stock
delisted.


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of
New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
8«!
PER ANNUM
5 TO 10 YEARS
DEEMABLE UNSECURED DEPOSIT
NOTES. Rates from 6% p.a. for 6
months to B£% p.a. for 4 to 10 yrs.
Full details of these issues will be
found in the Company's Prospectus
which is available at
The principal office of the
Bank of New South Wales
in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra and Newcastle.
any Member of the Stock Exchange,
or any office of
Cambridge Credit Corporation
Limited.
Application may be made only on the forms attached
to the Prospectus.
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 27-8821
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE 9 WAGGA 9 MELBOURNE
BRISBANE 9 ADELAIDE
CCI66/AB
CLIP AND POST COUPON j
Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd.
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney. [
Please send me without obligation a copy of I
the Prospectus with application form.
NAME j
ADDRESS j
“CROESUS”
New Terms For Old
npHOUGH from its recent scepticism of
■*- official predilection for national
economic aggregates the Institute of
Public Affairs might not agree to follow
the workings of the economy intelli-
gently, it is pretty essential to do one’s
homework on the national accounts,
now presented by the Commonwealth
Statistician in quarterly as well as an-
nual documents.
Perhaps it would be a bit too much
to expect the ordinary citizen to make
head or tail of the national accounts
unless he had happened to study the
basic economic concepts underlying them
and the special terminology used.
However, the surprising number of
school and university trained people in
the community who have a working
knowledge of the economic processes de-
picted in the national accounts must now
prepare themselves for a big shock.
When the next White Paper on “Nat-
ional Income and Expenditure” appears
around Budget time next month, they
will find that many of the terms their
school masters and lecturers drummed
into their heads have either disappeared
or mean something other than they’ve
been taught. Not only that. The national
accounts have been given such a thor-
ough face lift that in some aspects they
will be barely recognisable from the old
White Papers and will carry even more
detail to digest than ever before.
By making these changes, some of
which are as fundamental, for instance,
as giving a new definition to the term
“national income” itself, the Statistician
is acting in the interest both of better
understanding of economic processes
and of getting the accounts more closely
to conform with advances in inter :
national practices.
On the other hand, ordinary citizens
may well say that the changes only
blind him with more science and widen
the gap between his own efforts at un-
derstanding and the likelihood of suc-
cess at it in what after all is a field
in which he is deeply concerned and
one which has a strong bearing on his
political judgments.
It is suggested, therefore, that the Gov-
ernment might well consider publishing
something in the nature of a popular
digest of the matter in the national ac-
counts essential for a better public un-
derstanding of the economic trends in
the economy, a sort of Everyman’s White
Paper. With the adoption of new terms
this would seem an appropriate time to
do this.
This apart, and for all the effort
now required by business to grasp the
accounts in their new form, the achieve-
ment of Mr K. M. Archer, the Com-
monwealth Statistician, and the staff of
the Bureau of Census and Statistics in
producing this new model for the nat-
ional accounts, with figures on the new
basis retrospective to 1948-49, is most
noteworthy.
The Bureau’s achievement is the more
notable in that the opportunity has been
taken for a thorough revision of the
figures for previous years, though this
very exercise has in fact made a great
pile of white paper redundant in offices
throughout the country. We can’t go
along with suggestions that the Statis-
tician should have complicated his task
by indicating to what extent revisions
of previously published figures have been
the result of revised estimates on the
one hand and changes in terminology
on the other, however nice it would be
to have this information.
The Statistician must also be congratu-
lated for at long last purifying the con-
cept of private investment by removing
from it personal expenditure on motor
vehicles, which is now, as in most over-
seas countries, counted as part of per-
sonal consumption. Economics writers
have been urging the Bureau to do this
for many years. It would be interesting
to learn, however, on what basis the
Statistician has differentiated between
personal and business buying of ve-
hicles, an exercise which the taxation
department of the Treasury finds a par-
ticularly difficult one every year.
This is one of the most important
changes in concept to be found in the
new presentation of the national ac-
counts. Another is that the sector ac-
counts have been reconstructed into a
new framework, which is a statistician’s
dream to replace the nightmare of the
five separate sector accounts in the old
White Papers.
Not least of the achievements is the
provision in the Statistician’s new volume
of all back figures (from 1948-49 to
1961-62) for national income and ex-
penditure at constant prices.
This should prompt some sobering
thoughts on the rate of development in
Australia over the last decade. Taken
at constant prices, only in three of the
last six years has gross national product
(at factor cost) increased by more than
2 p.c., or at a higher rate than the
percentage rise in population. Those
three years were 1958-59 when GNP at
constant prices rose by 7.1 p.c. (the best
since 1949-50), 1959-60, 4 p.c., and
1960-61, 4.5 p.c. In 1956-57 and also
1957-58 GNP rose by only 1.8 p.c. and
in 1961-62 it actually fell by .6 p.c.


ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Ord, J. A. Minnett, M. A. Gleeson
White, lan McFarlane, G. X. Krygcr
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L. de Groen. S. R. Ravenscroft
R. V. Betts
Non-Member Partners
13-15 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Tel. 25-5711, 25-6011. Telex 5243
Branches at
150 Queen Street, (Melbourne
359-309 Queen Street. Brisbane
Cables and Telegrams:
Orderley: Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
Transport Problems of the Sixties
HThree important groups of changes, al-
most unnoticed in the hurly-burly of
daily living, are occurring in Australia’s
transport pattern, according to F. G.
Weller and M. C. Broome who recently
undertook a study of transport in the
1960 s under the auspices of the Commit-
tee for Economic Development of Aus-
tralia:
• Changes in the proportion of traf-
fic tasks performed by major forms of
transport;
• Changes in the relative importance
of public and private transport; and
• Changes in the attitude of ordinary
people towards transport and travelling.
In their view the next decade is likely
to see an acceleration of these changes
as the traffic pattern is moulded to meet
the needs of the rapidly expanding but
highly competitive economy. Some of
these changes can be foreseen, but others
must await the development of new ideas,
new techniques and new markets.
Pointing out that the whole progress
of Australian development over the past
60 years since Federation has been con-
ditioned by the availability of adequate
transport facilities, they do not find it
surprising that a major portion of the
national product is absorbed in the trans-
port function, either in providing the ser-
vices themselves or in the construction,
repair and maintenance of facilities of
all types.
expenditures on transport of all
forms, including expenditures by
private motorists on maintenance, repair
and running costs, account for some 30
p.c. of gross domestic expenditure, and
investment in transport equipment and
facilities absorbs a similar proportion of
total investment, public and private.
Although it is difficult to assess ac-
curately, they say that more than 700,000
persons are employed directly in trans-
port and in direct ancillary industries.
This is about 17 p.c. of the total work
force of 4.2 millions.
These figures indicate that transport
costs are a major element in costs of pro-
duction in Australia, affecting both pri-
mary and secondary industries alike.
They are an important element in de-
termining the competitive position of
Australian industry, vis-a-vis imports, and
exert their influence on the profitability
of industries dependent on export mar-
kets.
The cost of transport has a direct
bearing on the balance of payments, and
decisions affecting the relative rates of
growth of the different transport media
can significantly influence Australia’s im-
ports bill.
Imports of petroleum products, used
mainly in transport, are currently running
at just over £.lOO million a year. In ad-
dition, imports of capital equipment and
component parts for Australian-produced
equipment absorbed a further £l5O mil-
lion in 1959-60. In all, imports on behalf
of transport industries accounted for
28 p.c. of the total imports bill in that
year.
"TVespite the success of the Moonie oil
discovery, they see little prospect of
immediate relief from this heavy imports
burden. The consumption of petroleum
products is likely to double during the
decade, so that many more discoveries
will be needed to keep pace with growth.
Thus there are two basic reasons for
seeking to make the most of the resources
which are absorbed in the transport
sector:
9 The importance of transport and its
influence on costs of production, affect-
ing on the one hand the position of in-
dustries subject to import competition,
and on the other hand the export poten-
tial of both primary and secondary in-
dustries; and
9 The direct cost of importing capital
equipment and fuels.
It must be expected that the total
task of the various transport media will
continue to grow at least as fast as the
growth in gross national product, and
it will be more and more difficult to
provide the necessary facilities to handle
the increased traffic. That is to say that
whatever the precise direction of growth
in manufacturing, primary or service
industries transport will be required
for shifting goods and catering for the
needs of the increasingly mobile work
force.
Against this background the various
transport media will be engaged in meet-
ing problems arising from different as-
pects of growth and their own particular
situation in relation to the task they will
be called upon to perform.
• Airlines will face re-equipment
problems and the need for airfield de-
velopment may be paramount;
• For sea transport the emphasis may
be on problems of costs and competition
with rail and road transport;
• The railways will be engaged in
major extensions and standardisation
projects; and
• Road authorities will be concerned
to keep pace with growing traffic needs.
There will be economies, of course,
in the more intensive use of the existing
capital structure. But the probability is
that we have been living on borrowed
time to some extent over the last 20
years. We are now reaching a position
in which new work will need to be car-
ried out more or less commensurate with
the increased task, both to provide for
increased traffic and to meet new engin-
eering standards.
YX/ithout knowing a great deal more
' about what the future may hold,
it is difficult to make any precise esti-
mates about the likely growth of the
traffic task or its components. Some of
the elements can be distinguished, how-
ever, and what can be seen in these
elements is sufficient to indicate an urgent
need for more detailed research.
The major traffic tasks which must be
provided for can be classified broadly
as follows:
• To provide passenger transport for
a work force expanding at about 2i p.c.
a year, concentrated in major urban
centres.
• To shift rural products and manu-
factured goods, the former fluctuating
but increasing slowly, the latter increasing
aj something like 7 p.c. a year, again
concentrated in urban centres.
9 To provide for the growing vol-
ume of service needs of the community.
• To cater for the wide range of
private transport needs, including tour-
ism, which may be expanding at perhaps
10 p.c. a year.
This listing of the components of the
total transport problem suggests that it is
not one problem but several distinct
problems: That of providing for urban
transport, the development of a national
roads system, the provision of develop-
ment roads, and so on. Moreover, these
problems impinge in varying degree on
the seven different States, each with its
own particular physical situation.
Under these circumstances it is un-
likely that the best allocation of resources
will be achieved without a degree of
overall Commonwealth planning and con-
trol, and without a great deal of study
and research at State and Municipal level.


NOV/
£l f OOO f OOO !
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
i
Q
Xo
10*20 years
Applications must be lodged
on the form attached to the
prospectus.
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE NOTES
Applications must be made
on the form attached to the
prospectus and the acknow-
ledgment will be a Registered
Redeemable Unsecured Note.
HOW TO INVEST
Obtain a prospectus from and
lodge applications at:—
• Any Stockbroker.
• The National Bank of
Australasia Limited.
• Any office of Burns Philp
Trust Co. Ltd.
• Any store or office of
Waltons Limited.
• Waltons Credit Corpora-
tion Limited, Park and
George Streets, Sydney.
Phone 61-9273.
TWIeU
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated in The Australian Capital
Territory.
CAS 23 18b
INVESTMENT SECHON
Vigor In The Markets
Tt really looks as if investors have
A decided to treat the opening days of
the new financial year as a kind of
watershed.
With a clarity of difference seldom
so obvious, the sharemarkets are begin-
ning to show post-June 30 attitudes
vastly changed from those prevailing in
the immediate pre-June 30 period.
Their behavior of the past few months
should, of course, not be minimised.
Especially since January share dealings
were establishing a technical position
completely allowing the present kind of
take-off.
But long stretches of fine selectivity
do undoubtedly manage to convey a
sense of lethargy. So it’s nice to be able
to hail an energetic burst in turnovers
which gives no sign of sudden extinction.
In the apparent absence of strong
institutional and overseas buying, the
return of the smaller investor seems
finally to have occurred. If his drive
manages to sustain itself over the next
week or so this most necessary append-
age to the professional may be con-
gratulated for having re-entered just in
the nick of time.
The Bulletin for some while has
rather harped on the situation that many
economic indicators justified a more
vivid interest in equities. Opportunities
among good industrials were crying out
for the picking.
Many reasons, the huge company
losses and the so-called lack of con-
fidence among them, assuredly dictated
a prolonged withdrawal . from the
markets. Of late months that surely
meant that the Stock Exchanges were
not assuming their rightful position as
one of the most significant indicators.
They remained well behind a tolerably
plain improvement by the Australian
economy.
Now the National Bank of Australasia
is not alone in feeling “there would
appear to be no major impediment to
prevent 1963-64 becoming a really pros-
perous year.” On these prospects the
small investor can amplify his return.
There should scarcely be any need to
give a reminder that the slightest reck-
lessness is not in order, if it ever was.
Recent trading has demonstrated a
forward movement clearly built upon the
firm re-establishment of traditional
leaders. Their technical and industrial
performance made clear, a host of
other good stocks thrust forward for
examination.
It can scarcely be an accident when,
following leader advances, investors seek
out shares like J. Lysaght, Containers,
Humes, McPhersons, Minster, the bigger
retailers and the better finance houses.
Given a few outstanding 1962-63 profit
results in the near future, the trend will
reach downwards towards less obvious
stocks.
The very direction of that trend again
demonstrates the absolute validity of per-
formance as a guide, as also it suggests
that at present a conviction of good
company results to come is widely felt.
Only these can really support the
present market ebullience. Otherwise
the loosening of readily available liquid
funds provides merely an artificial
foundation for a return to the equity.
Fortunately some very good profits
should soon come to hand. Mount Isa
last week brought along sufficient hints
to act as early encouragement.
Most observers are ready to believe
that a striking announcement from BHP
will provide the next solid bonding for
a renewed and vigorous market.
Disillusion Overdone
precipitate selling of Custom
Credit just after its preliminary
profit release dried up fairly quickly,
and rightly so. To put the ss. shares
down 2s. 3d. in two days on the
evidence available was plainly going too
far.
There is still every reason for existing
shareholders to keep their interest, at
least until they are able to ponder a
full set of accounts. These might well
confirm that a year or two more may
be needed before the once-pristine hire-
purchase leader absorbs all needful
adjustments.
Nevertheless, the report now to hand,
together with the general economic and
financial weather, suggest the refurbish-
ment should be accomplished. It is to be
hoped, though, that directors see the
need for giving greater information in
the printed report. This applies par-
ticularly to a notorious gap of former
years the exact composition of out-
standings.
It’s still hard for investors to banish
thoughts of 1961-62’s necessary addition
of £1,145,770 to unearned income pro-
vision and the consequent overstate-
ment of earlier profits. The latest result
also means they must face the third
successive earnings decline, this time
leading to an earning rate barely pro-
tecting the traditional 15 p.c. basic
dividend.
Lacking, as yet, other information on


PROTECT
YOUR
PROFIT
How often have you stayed too
long in the market? Timing is
very important. To sell too soon
is just as painful as selling too
late. When you have a good
profit, you can purchase a PUT
option at the market price. If
the market continues to rise, you
will allow the PUT to expire and
your extra profit will more than
pay for the small cost of the
PUT option.
To learn more about this or other
types of option transfers, phone or
post coupon today.
To MONTGOMERY HUGHES & CO. PTY. LTD
324 Pitt Street, Sydney. Phone: 26 1024
Please send further information to:
Name.
Address
the shape of current trading, it has to
be accepted that directors remain con-
fident by the very fact of holding the
rate. If necessary, a bank-sponsored
company would surely face the music
and not carry on an untenable dividend.
So shareholders may remain hopeful.
Naturally the size of “abnormal bad
debts arising from business written in
earlier periods” is crucial.
So also is success in continuing to
gain “a substantially increased volume
of selective short-term business,” now
directors’ established policy. Redemp-
tion of longer-term advances (mostly
housing loans) will apparently continue
• some 44 p.c. reduction has been
effected during the last two years.
Correction has also been applied to
the insurance subsidiary National and
General, which suffered underwriting
losses in 1962-63 from third-party
claims. That type of business was cut
to a minimum in the previous year.
For the record, 1962-63 consolidated
earnings went down by £260,957 to
£1,050,547, from which the dividend
took £1,050,000. Outstandings moved
up slightly from £84,669,100 to
£85,313,416, with income yet to
mature £ 15,055,834 (previously
£16,797,625). The lower ratio reflects
the high redemption of long-term loans,
directors state.
By the time this is read one or two
obviously healthy finance companies
will probably have put out their June
30 results. They will clearly show what
can be done by companies in tip-top
condition.
Freightlines Inspection
T'he Government-ordered inspection of
A Freightlines and Construction
Holdings Ltd should turn up a great
deal more information than has been
available to shareholders for the past
six years.
In that period shareholders’ equity has
been gradually whittled away, first by
the takeover of Collier Garland by
Kwikasair, then the takeover of Kwik-
asair by Freightlines and finally by the
offer of Tat Corporation Pty Ltd of 4s.
cash for each ss. share in Freightlines.
Shareholders are rushing this offer,
which provides the first tangible return
on their investment since the shares
were delisted from the Sydney Stock
Exchange 16 months ago.
Despite many unsatisfactory features
of the offer, it is the only way in which
they can recover any of their original
investment, because under the present
situation the company is most unlikely
to be relisted.
One point which the Government
inspector is sure to examine closely
is the activity of Mr W. Shapowloff,
who was a director of Collier Garland,
was on the boards of both Kwikasair
and Freightlines when they made their
takeovers, and is now one of the two
directors of Tat Corporation. The other
director and shareholder is Miss E.
Sedevcic.
One of the unsatisfactory features of
the present takeover is that, in the state-
ment accompanying the offer, the sec-
retary of Tat Corporation and Shapow-
loff’s co-director says that Tat holds no
marketable securities in Freightlines.
However, as late as May 20, about
six weeks before the date of the offer,
Tat Corporation was one of the largest
shareholders in Freightlines, while to-
gether with the shares held by Shapow-
loff and Sedevcic the holding exceeded
50 p.c.
No explanation is given why Tat
should suddenly dispose of its holding,
and then offer to buy it back, and no
explanation is given why in the six
months prior to the offer 265,000 of
the 435,498 shares came to be traded
a startling number in view of the
difficulties associated with the dealing in
shares in an unlisted company.
Supporting the offer is what purports
to be a balance sheet, unaudited, for
the world of business
“I'm sorry girls, but payments to Dr. Stephen Ward are not
allowable tax deductions.”


AUSTRALIAN EQUITY
CORPORATION LTD
(Formerly MOTOR CREDITS LIMITED)
A MEMBER OF THE AUSTRALIAN
HIRE PURCHASE AND FINANCE CONFERENCE
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
%
P.A.
5-10 YEARS
REGISTERED
UNSECURED
NOTES
%
8
2 p.
5 YEARS
(A! so shorter term currencies)
Applications will proceed only on the form referred to and enclosed in the
prospectus which can be obtained from:
0 Australian Equity Corporation Ltd,
365 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Telephone: 67 7701
123 Ryrie Street, Geelong. 9 3597.
Branches at: Sydney, Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane.
0 Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce Insurance Co. Ltd,
200 Queen Street, Melbourne.
0 Any Branch of the Bank of N.S.W. in Victoria and other States.
0 Any Branch Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited in Victoria only.
0 Members of any recognised stock exchange in Australia.
UNDERWRITERS: J. B. WERE & SON
1281
the year to June 30 1962, which shows
a deficit of shareholders’ funds. But
then there is a statement by directors
that an unnamed “independent auditor”
had estimated the value of the shares
at 2s. . . . about the level at which
they were being traded before being de-
listed.
The last audited balance sheet was
for the year ended June 30, 1961, and
was not released until April 1962, sev-
eral weeks after the company’s shares
had been removed from the Stock Ex-
change.
In the course of the takeovers, the
group has actually issued only five bal-
ance sheets over the past seven years.
The latest “balance sheet” shows that
there was still £31,616 in notes still to
be presented for redemption but it is
understood that the trustee for the note-
holders has had the utmost difficulty
in viewing the register of noteholders
to ascertain just what noteholders have
been paid out and how much remains
in the accounts.
The Government inspector may find
of interest the priority in which note-
holders were repaid.
The Stock Exchange took the only
action that it could to protect potential
investors by delisting the company, al-
though this in itself was insufficient to
warrant a Government enquiry.
However, it is to be hoped, now
that an enquiry has been ordered, that
it will be pushed through with all pos-
sible speed without sacrificing the degree
of its examination.
In the meantime, it is understood
that the offer from Tat Corporation
still remains open. Mr Shapowloff must
see value in the enterprise not visible
in either its history or its latest balance
sheet.
A Miller’s Tale
TjVouß miller and processor Geo.
Fielder won’t get out of the wood
for a while yet. Shareholders, though,
may feel grateful that interim dividend
for the six months to March 31 preserves
last year’s full 8 p.c. rate.
The current year ending September
will still see quite a struggle to hold the
1961-62 earning rate. Group profits to
March reached £56,161, or £4450 ahead
of the corresponding 1961-62 period.
That full year’s profit finished up at
£150,523, including an “abnormal”
£32,649. Capital has lately gone up by a
takeover issue and notes conversion, so
this second six months’ earnings will have
to accelerate.
The whole industry is running under
difficulties, especially where flour exports
are concerned. Fielders’ ss. shares remain
close to ss. 10d., having been only as
high as 6s. sd. during 1963.
For the Little Black Book
A prospective float to jot down in the
the little black book is rapidly
expanding Seeley and Craig Ltd, ap-
pliances maker, whose new admini-
strative building in Brunswick (Victoria)
was opened by Premier Bolte in a set-
ting appropriately conditioned by a well-
known PR concern.
The group, originally South Australian,
now has its main production operation,
including Chef gas cookers, located at
the site of the old Lux foundry off
Sydney Road, where, an executive told
The Bulletin, the assets are worth
£li million and 400 people, or four-
fifths of the group’s total, are employed.
Recent expansion in Melbourne has
been fathered by Australian Equity Cor-
poration (Motor Credits that was) which
has a big interest in the business and
whose heads were much in evidence at
the opening.
Mount Isa Comes Good
tThiE markets quickly and excitedly
A hailed Mount Isa’s bonus, sending
the shares up ss. early on the morning
after the announcement. Prices have
been taken well above their best of the
last two years, 1962’s 765. 6d.
But the news shouldn’t really have
caught too many knowledgeable investors
genuinely by surprise. A bonus was
widely predicted for round about this
year. Perhaps the timing came a little
earlier than expected, that’s all.
Directors lay some emphasis on
describing the issue as a capital re-
organisation, “to more truly reflect the
value of the company’s assets, which
have been built up over a long
at present-day values.” They also stress
a decision not to increase the cash
amount of the dividend, thus inferring,
on the present 25 p.c. payment, a cut-
back to 10 p.c.
Both statements look exactly applicable
as far as they go, which may be not
many years ahead. The political
expediency of lowering the lofty earning
rate by such an issue has received
frequent canvassing. Output possibilities
and the fairly equable situation for world
base-metal prices keep on suggesting that
profits will still roll along.
Certainly these two factors hav«
pointed to quite remarkable earnings fof
the year to June 30. Announcing the
bonus eight weeks or so before the
results perhaps reinforces the feeling of
a truly dramatic profit lift.
A couple of years’ earnings above the
1960-61 peak of £5,914,000 would still
permit the massive retentions to continue


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
{Registered 19th December, 1929)
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
REGISTERED UNSECURED NOTES
PER
ANNUM
FOR 6
YEARS J
PER
ANNUM
FOR 3
YEARS
PER
ANNUM
FOR 12
MONTHS,
HOW TO APPLY
Applications will be accepted only
on the printed forms attached to the
Prospectus. Your copy available
from all Members of Stock Exchanges,
over 7SO branches of the A.N.Z.
Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches.
Branches at
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
HOBART - CANBERRA
Underwriters: lan Potter <6 Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane.
8388 N
an entirely internal financing of develop-
ment The stage must then come again
when ploughback does not interfere with
dividend. The dividend increase-bonus
cycle can start over again.
The existing expansion programme
terminates around mid-1966, though
with Mount Isa’s gigantic reserves and
peculiarly balanced ore-bodies, develop-
ment must be a continuous process
Watchful eyes always have to be kept
on international metal movements. At
present the experts don’t see any sudden
shocks coming here. Indeed, some
optimists are even looking towards
higher copper prices in the near future.
These, of all base metals, have been
held firmly for a considerable time.
There seems little need once more to
extol the purely investment merits of
Mount Isa, now to become Australia’s
fourth largest company behind BHP,
ICIANZ and CSR. The Bulletin set
them out briefly in its “One To Buy” of
May 25.
Another Good Brew
ITigh tax provision relative to dis-
closed profits points to the bonus
potential of Bushells Investment Ltd.
The 1962-63 (year to June) prelimin-
ary results released last week show a
third successive profit increase to
£450,000, after tax of £444,000 and
depreciation of £184,000.
Profits for the last four years, with
tax provisions in parentheses have been:
1960 £339,207 (£298.126)
1961 £391,183 (£387,317)
1962 £417,340 (£424,708)
1963 £450,000 (£444,000)
The outsiders’ interest of £107,000
in 1962-63 only partly explains the high
tax provision. This year, for the first
time, a stock provision for £25,000
has been made.
Average earning rate for the past
six years is 23.4 p.c., giving wide mar-
gin for the steady 10 p.c. dividend.
At 745. 9d. to yield 2.7 p.c. the
20s. shares are highly regarded, v/ith
justification.
Plenty of Gas
A ssociated Group is getting plenty of
gas from wells in Queensland. But
when is the next step to be taken to
follow up the group’s oil finds at Sunny-
bank?
The latest well to strike gas in the
group’s Roma area is Inderi No. 1 which
produced 800,000 cu. ft a day at the
1829 ft- 1925 ft level last week. Also,
further testing of Westgrove No. 3 in
the same tenement is proving higher
rates than previously. The lower level
in this well flowed 750,000 cu. ft a day
on the second testing, compared with
500,000 on the first. Now a new well
is to be spudded-in at Arbroath, 21
miles south of Roma.
Mil lor Expands
'C'lour miller Gillespie Bros. Holdings
A Ltd is calling for fresh capital from
shareholders to finance the growth of
subsidiary and associated companies.
The issue, one-for-six 10s. shares at
2s. 6d. premium, will take paid capital
over the £ 1 million mark.
Last time the company had an issue
it was two-for-five at par in November,
1960.
In its four years of public perform-
ance, absolute profit has made annual
progress, and the earning rate has aver-
aged 18.9 p.c.
Results for 1962-63 are not yet out,
but directors intimated that earning rate
would not fall short of last year’s
17.5 p.c.
Gillespie has interests in bread, cakes,
stock feed, White Wings cake and pud-
ding mixes (in equal partnership with
Pillsbury of America), and in margarine
and edible oils (with Allied Mills, on a
one-third, two-thirds basis).
On a cum-rights price of 275. 3d.
entry can be made to this company for
a return of 3.6 p.c. In view of the bene-
fits potential in the immediate future,
the return appears meagre.


' ■
m
:.K
m&rl
“This chair will
go a long way”
—says the Chair-man
Yes, the Saratoga is a rather unusual
chair. Clean, contemporary styling at
a modest price.*
Comfortable? The well upholstered curved
seat and deep shaped backrest are
easy on the bones.
Strong? It’s built in the usual Sebel
tradition —enough said?
What else is special about the Saratoga?
Firstly, it’s compact—takes up very
little room, and the legs don’t project
more than they have to.
Next, the seat unclips, may be lifted
off so that Saratogas take up next
to no space for transport or storage.
This is one of the latest Sebel chairs
■—we think it will go a long way. All
over Australia, in fact.
“CHAIR-MAN”
HF.RR ARE TIJST A FEW ITEMS FROM THE WIDE RANGE OF SEBEL FURNITURE
If you're thinking of buying a quantity of chairs or tables for a hall, club, hotel, etc., perhaps you'd
better ask us for a copy of our quantity price list.
Also ask for the Sebel 44-page catalogue, and the most informative “Complete Chair Manual."
SEBELS (AUST.) LTD., 96 Canterbury Road, Bankstown, N.S.W. Phone 70-0771.
SEBEL SALES LTD., 151 Dandenong Road, Windsor, S.l, Vic. Phone 51-7063.
SEBEL SALES LTD., 208 Wharf Street, Brisbane, Queensland. Phone 2-6963.
EVANS AGENCIES LTD., 9 Lindes Lane, Adelaide, South Australia. Phone W 1038.
CARLYLE & CO. (1959) PTY. LTD., 1-9 Milligan Street, Perth, W.A. Phone 21-9331.
NU SALES DISTRIBUTORS, Merino Street, Launceston, Tasmania. Phone 4-9886.
5C4.84
Less Provincial
of Provincial Traders Hold-
ings Ltd are in the mood for ex-
pansion. They are seeking shareholders’
approval for a change in the company’s
Articles so that one million ss. shares
may be issued without first being offered
to shareholders.
A fat-rendering business outside Mel-
bourne is lined up ready for takeover
in a deal worth about £lOO,OOO and re-
quiring the issue of approximately
150,000 ss. shares.
The group’s activities already embrace
margarine and stock foods, plumbing
contracting, grain production and beef
cattle raising. It is also the largest
chicken producer in Australia.
Preliminary estimates indicate group
profit for the latest June year will be the
best yet. Earning rate in 1961-62 was
22.7 p.c.
Present yield of 3.6 p.c., while the
shares are priced at about 13s. 9d., is
comparable with that offering from the
other margarine producer, Marrickville
Holdings.
Provincial Traders’ capital after this
issue for takeover purposes will be about
£1,162,000.
Perhaps Provincial shares will then
be added to the Melbourne list. At pre-
sent the shares are traded in Brisbane
and Sydney.


SECURITY ANALYSIS
EMI Delivers the Goods
the “electrical” stocks analysed in
recent weeks, none has a market
premium comparable with that of EMI.
For, at around 255. 9d., EMl’s ss. shares
are only a fraction below the 1962 high
of 265. and only about 7 p.c. below this
year’s peak price of 28s. 6d. In addition,
the immediate dividend yield of 2.8 p.c.
obtainable from EMl’s shares is lower
than those obtainable on comparable
stocks, which suggests that investors con-
fidently expect benefits to accrue in the
short run. This is because on the basis of
the present dividend rate of 144 p.c.
(including If p.c. “bonus”), the present
price must nearly be at a “ceiling”, i.e.,
there comes a point when a very low
immediate dividend yield has a tendency
to discourage potential investors.
The company was formed in 1948 by
Electrical and Musical Industries Limited
of England as a proprietary company,
and in 1957 converted to a public com-
pany. As a result of arrangements then
made, the English parent company holds
614 p.c. of the 5.2 million shares issued.
In January, 1961, the Articles of As-
sociation were altered to provide that
the parent company’s percentage hold-
ing would not fall below 51 p.c.
Since conversion to public status, ex-
pansion of the company has been
directed towards the development of
selling and distribution facilities and
towards increasing productive capacity
for gramophone records and “His
Master's Voice” television receivers. In
addition, the company manufactures
and distributes radio receivers and other
electrical appliances, whilst importing
and distributing electronic products and
other items made by the UK parent
company and by its two associate com-
panies. One, Television Equipment Pty
Ltd (owned jointly with Philips Elec-
trical Industries) has already obtained
contracts for the supply and erection
of two country television stations.
7|7he company was formed to supply
equipment and services to the pro-
fessional TV industry, with the emphasis
on aiding the establishment of TV in
rural areas. The other, EMI-Vise Pty
Ltd (owned jointly with Visatone Tele-
vision Pty Ltd) was formed to produce
films for television screening, and has
already made a number of short inter-
lude films. It was also announced that
in the financial year ended June 30,
1962, the company withdrew from the
household refrigerator and washing
machine fields, this being the main
reason for the 17 p.c. decline in turn-
over that financial year as compared
with the previous one. For, whilst EMI
did not manufacture those products
themselves, there was in the economy
considerable excess capacity for the
production of these goods relative to
consumer demand, such that EMI
thought little profit would remain in
such an extremely competitive situation
for a distributor as distinct from a direct
manufacturer.
In the boom 1959-60 financial year
when, like most other companies, EMI
achieved a record profit, the directors
charged the accounts (as distinct from
appropriating profits) with an amount of
£150,000 as “provision for the de-
velopment of electronic products.” It
was then stated that certain advan-
tageous arrangements, negotiated with
overseas organisations, would have the
effect of greatly increasing the activities
of the electronics division. Recently the
division has been fully occupied with
orders, a rate of activity predicted to
continue.
In common with other companies
operating in the same field, EMI ex-
perienced a very profitable 1959-60
financial year, followed by a consider-
able decline in profitability the next, but
m&de a good recovery in the 1961-62
financial year.
JT-rom directors’ reports, it is apparent
that the sales of TV receivers play a
major role in determining overall profits.
Thus in the boom year, while total
turnover rose by 38 p.c., sales of TV
receivers increased by 67 p.c. Likewise,
in the “recession” financial year, re-
duced profits were due to lower profit
margins from the manufacture of TV
receivers as a result of industry over-
production. as well as overall reduced
demand for consumer durables. And,
in the 1961-62 financial year, the
greater profit margin per TV receiver
and the more stable industry conditions
contributed to the recovery of the con-
solidated net profit. The greater
“stability” in the TV receiver manu-
facturing industry has arisen out of
the progressive establishment of TV
stations, coupled with the replacement
market.
In the brief period which EMI has
been listed, it has proved a good invest-
ment. Thus, anyone fortunate enough
to obtain 100 £1 shares at par in 1957
at the time of converting to public
status would novv hoid 400 ss. shares
worth about £515, In addition, the
dividend rate has increased from an
initial 10 p.c. paid in the year ended
June 30, 1958, up to a present 14f p.c.
This is a 42.5 p.c. increase in dividend
income in only 4 years or just under-
an annual average compound rate of
10 p.c.
Based on a present 2.8 p.c. dividend
yield, dividend income would need to
increase at about 13 p.c. p.a. compound
over the next five years (and 3 p.c.
thereafter) to yield a 7 p.c. return. Or,:
if one is prepared to project earnings
and the like further into the future,
dividend income would need to increase
at 8 p.c. p.a. compound over the next
10 years to yield a rate of return com-
parable to that available on a first-class
fixed income security.
While this is a lot to require, there
is every reason to expect that EMI
could achieve this, especially in view ’
of its good performance to date. In
addition, the current dividend rate is
covered over 2+ times by 1962 earnings,
even if EMI’s profit figure does not
advance further on the 36.8 p.c. earned.
All depends on how the company j
fared in the last half year of the year I
ended June 30. 1963. For, in February of
this year, EMI announced that it lifted
profit in the half year to December, but
warned that intense competition still ;
present in the TV receiver industry,
plus near saturation of sales to country |
areas, could cause profit during the j
latter half of the financial year to be \
less than that of the corresponding
period of the previous financial year.
However, as the Australian produc-
tion of TV sets for the 6 months ended
June 30, 1962, of 169,500 units was
the highest since the 204,200 units made
in the 6 months to December 31, 1960, ,
this is not so surprising. The overall
result, though, is expected to be very
favorable.
SUMMARY OF BALANCE SHEETS AND
PROFIT STATEMENTS (£'000)
Year to June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1952
Ord. capital 1300 1300 1300 1300 1300
Capital reserves 72 72 72 72 72
Revenue surplus 270 537 1081 1385 1647
Ord. SHF. 1642 1909 2453 2757 3019
Loan capital 568 451 452 250 250 [
Total capital 2210 2360 2905 3007 32i9 j
Represented by:
Current assets 1952 2305 3026 2637 3230 j
Less current
liabilities 1217 1523 2082 1437 1840
Working capital 735 782 944 1150 1390
Land and
buildings 835 836 946 1061 1033 j
Other fixed
assets 630 692 720 732 651 |
Investments 10 50 295 64 145 j
2210 2360 2905 3007 3269
"Operating"
income 668 873 1435 804 1026 J
Earnings 302 401 657 366 473 j
Ord. dividend 121 134 154 163 185 j
Surplus 181 267 503 203 293 \
Eornings p.c. ord.
capital 23.2 30.8 50.6 23.2 36.8 1
Ord. div. p.c 10.0 11.0 12.5 12.5 14.25 1
Op. Inc. p.c. total
capital 29.0 39.5 60.8 27.7 34.1
Dividend yield
px. (a) 5.4 3.4 2.8 3.3 3.2
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 8.0 10.6 3.9 It.7 12.0
(a) Based on last sale, month accounts presented.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Income and Capital Benefits Here
TTlhe Swan Brewery Company Ltd.
made excellent profit progress in 1962,
a year made memorable for Western Aus-
tralia by the Commonwealth Games and
the Royal Visit. Earning rate moved up
from 15.1 p.c. to 17.4 p.c., and allowed
an increase in dividend rate from 121
p.c. to 15 p.c.
Net result of trading for the 12
months to March 26 was £713,693
profit, after £632,332 having been pro-
vided for tax and £418,339 for
depreciation.
Like its counterpart in NSW (Tooth
and Co.), Swan made very adequate
provisions before arriving at the dis-
closed profit, if the Tax Commissioner’s
assessment is taken as a guide.
A sum of £29,000 was provided
against fluctuations in raw material and
stock values, and £56,000 for renova-
tions and renewals.
Group accounts incorporated the
following subsidiaries: The Emu Brewery
Ltd, The Kalgoorlie Brewing Co. Ltd,
Swan Hotels Ltd, The West Australian
Glass Manufacturers Ltd, Stuart Brewery
Ltd, The Darwin Brewery Ltd, Hotel
Darwin Ltd, Swan Hotels (NT) Ltd and
Globe Hotels Ltd.
Assets acquired during the year in-
cluded six hotels at Geraldton, two free-
hold hotels at Carnarvon and Albany
and some land, and a minority interest
in two valuable wine and spirit merchant
businesses.
The rationalising of hotel properties
continued; one redundant hotel was
sold, and three were revalued during
1962-63. Directors regret the absence of
a tax allowance for depreciation on
amortisation of hotel buildings.
Swan has been in business in Perth
since 1887. It has two breweries there
(Swan and Emu), one at Kalgoorlie and
one at Darwin.
Since the war there has been a one-
for-ten issue of ss. shares at 20s.
premium in December, 1950, a two-for-
one bonus in May, 1951, a one-for-three
issue at Is. premium in April, 1954, and
a one-for-seven bonus in May, 1961.
The introduction of canned beer in
1962 has been a great success in terms
of sales and profits, and no doubt has
contributed to the growth of exports,
which now reach 42 countries.
Obviously generous plough-back of
profits has enabled a gradual improve-
ment in shareholders’ income plus capital
benefits from time to time. Large
amounts have been added to reserves in
recent years, without explanation.
The apparent negative working
capital position need not be taken
seriously, for at last balance date short-
term deposits of £560,000 appeared
amongst the investments.
An unbroken history of profits and
dividends going back to 1919 shows the
security of income which an investment
in Swan affords.
Although the current yield of 3.2 p.c.
is very modest, shareholders can expect
this to be supplemented in the future by
further income and capital benefits. The
present dividend rate of 15 p.c. contains
a bonus element of 2 i p.c., but this
could become a permanent feature if
the company continues to prosper.
An excellent record and growing
domestic and foreign markets seem to
justify rating the stock at amongst the
lowest yielding of all Australian
brewers. The present price for the 5s.
shares is 23s. 8d.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
March 26 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 1191 1288 1253 1179 1375
Less current
liabilities 1718 1282 1205 1181 1526
Working capital -527 6 48 -2 -151
Investments 4 37 378 548 607
Fixed assets 9158 7239 7102 7528 7869
8635 7282 7528 8074 8325
Minority interests 24 20 22 3 —
Pref. capital 50 50 50 50 50
Ord. capital 3423 3423 3466 3968 4082
Reserves 5138 3789 3990 4053 4193
8635 7282 7528 8074 8325
Depreciation 260 281 353 399 418
Taxation 366 411 585 563 632
Net profit 356 399 489 602 714
Net profit for
ords. 353 396 486 599 711
Dividend 342 342 433 495 509
Surplus 11 54 53 104 202
Earning rate 10.3 11.6 14.0 15.1 17.4
Dividend rate 10 10 122 12J 15
Dividend yield (a) 4.9 4.2 5.0 3.4 —
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 20.4 20.8 18.7 24.4 —
High price (b) 11/- 15/- 14/2 17/- 20/4
Low price (b) 8/8 10/- 10/7 10/6 17/3
(a) End of June, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
BOANS LTD
Highly Rated Retailer
T>erth retailer Boans Ltd has com-
-*■ pleted another very satisfying term
of trading without interference by inter-
state giants. Profit expanded from
£145,650 to £169,671, after tax of
£127,920 and depreciation of £87,870.
This improvement encouraged direc-
tors to recommend a lift in dividend from
10 to 11 p.c. with an additional 1 p.c.
bonus making 12 p.c. for the year to
February 28, 1963.
Certain options, granted in 1957, were
exercised during 1962-63, lifting paid
ordinary capital from £449,073 to
£547,433. Other options exist whereby
the holders may take up a total of 80,000
£1 “B” class 7 p.c. cumulative preference
shares at par, and 60,000 10s. ordinary
shares at ss. premium, exercisable one
half on March 30, 1966, and half in
1971.
During the latest term, fixed-term
loans cost the company £136,965 in
interest. Long-term liabilities exceeded
£l.B million.
On November 30, 1967, £323,735 in
notes mature, although the company
may redeem these on or after Novem-
ber 30, 1964. Another £125,000 worth
may be applied in payment for shares
taken up in order to exercise options pre-
viously mentioned.
Apart from the main city store, Boans


has stores at Waverley, Morley, Medina
and Bunbury.
The Murray Street frontage of the city
store, mostly erected in 1912, is being
modernised. The Medina store has been
doubled in size, and a new store will be
opened in 1964 in the Grove Shopping
Centre at Cottesloe.
Directors attributed the profit improve-
ment to the relaxation of credit restric-
tions which brought greater employment
and a revival of confidence in industry.
The company relies heavily on loan
funds and retained earnings, and thus has
been able to show a steady improvement
in earning rate over the last five years.
Boans is highly regarded as an in-
vestment. Reserves give a net tangible
assets backing to the 10s. ordinary shares
of 38s. 3d.
Recent sales of the old shares at around
445. give a yield of 2.7 p.c., which is
the lowest for any Australian retailer
with the exception of Myer (SA) and the
Myer Emporium.
The latent possibility of a move into
Perth by Myer through Boans continually
supports the price of Boans shares. The
small supply of ordinary shares available
on the market also assists the price.
On the company’s own merits, Boans
shares are scarcely worth such high
rating, considering that since listing in
1954 the only capital benefits to share-
holders were a one-for-four issue at 50
p.c. premium in 1955, and a reservation
for shareholders of notes with options in
1957.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
February 28 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 1950 2157 2587 2945 3125
Less current liabilities 1059 1292 1425 1874 1920
Working capital 891 865 1162 1071 1205
Investments 44 33 33 23 31
Fixed Assets 2382 2390 2519 3107 3173
Intangibles 2 2 2 2 2
3319 3290 3716 4203 4416
Loan capital 1313 1221 1383 1820 1841
Minority interests — — 43 42 42
Preference capital 300 300 435 435 435
Ordinary capital 439 439 449 449 547
Reserves 1267 1330 1406 1457 1551
3319 3290 3716 4203 4415
Depreciation 48 60 63 67 83
Taxation 69 72 102 106 128
Net profit 119 122 144 146 170
Net profit for ords 98 101. 118 116 140
Dividends 44 44 45 45 61
Surplus 54 57 73 71 79
Earning rate 22.4 23.0 26.4 26.1 27 6
Dividend rate 10 10 10 10 10
Dividend yield (a) 3.6 2.9 2.8 2.5
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 12.5 15.0 14.3 15 6 —
High price (b) 22/5 40/9 43/- 43/- 49/4
Low price (b) 17/3 21/- 30/6 30/6 40/-
(a) End of July, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
ISAS (NSW) LTD
Bad Debts a Problem
Tntense competition still prevails in the
A heavy equipment field, but Isas
(NSW) Ltd was able to achieve a high-
er turnover in its latest year. But directors
pointed out that recovery in the construc-
tion and timber industries from the reces-
sion was slower than desirable.
The company was formed in Sydney
in 1956 to exercise franchises from
International Harvester Co. of Australia
Pty Ltd and Armstrong-Holland Pty Ltd.
It distributed . throughout NSW their
industrial tractors and power units, earth-
moving equipment and Smith Rodley
cranes and excavators. The first branch
was opened at Cooma in 1958.
In 1960-61 the company acquired
franchises for Gabon and Britstand
graders.
The company paid annual dividends
of 10 p.c. for the first four years after
listing, but in the last two years profits
have just covered dividends of 5 p.c.
and 1-1 p.c.
While parts and service demands con-
tinued at a satisfactory level during the
recession, the directors were concerned
with the faff, in equipment sales, because
current profits and future demands for
parts and services are thereby reduced.
Bad debts were a major problem in the
last two years, and large sums were writ-
ten off in the latest year ended March 31.
Since balance date sales have been
satisfactory, directors report, particularly
of equipment delivered to government
and local government departments.
As a mere distributor, Isas is in a
fairly vulnerable position: the loss of a
franchise could seriously affect profits. It
is by nature r. cyclical stock, and does not
provide much security to the investor.
At about 4s. 6d. below par 20s., the
shares currently return 9.7 p.c. They
could move up to par if industry picks
up as expected in the next 12 months,
but beyond that they begin to look top-
heavy.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000}
March 31 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 580 629 978 982 1064
Less current liabilities 440 500 682 675 747
Working capital 140 129 296 307 317
Fixed assets 117 157 169 159 155
Intangibles 12 — — — —
269 286 465 466 472
Reserves 19 36 75 76 82
Ordinary capital 250 250 390 390 390
269 236 465 466 472
Depreciation 7 9 12 13 12
Taxation 17 34 31 16 25
Net profit 28 54 40 21 35
Dividends 25 25 33 20 29
Surplus 3 29 7 16
Earning rate 11.2 21.7 12.5 5.3 7.8
Dividend rate 10 10 10 5 7\
Dividend yield (a) 9.3 5.7 9.8 6.6 —
Price/earning
ratio (a) 9.6 8.0 8.2 14.3 —
High price (b) 23/- 30/3 40/- 25/- 20/-
Low price (b) 20/6 20/6 27/- 17/3 14/-
(a) End of June, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous financial year.
JANTZEN (Australia) LTD
First Loss
in its
History
Although 1962-63 was the first un-
profitable year in the history of
Jantzen (Australia) Ltd, the accompany-
ing graph illustrates the mercurial qual-
ity of its business.
Both fashion and weather largely dic-
tate the results of this company, which
makes and markets men’s and women’s
swimwear and winter and summer
sportswear.
Only the preference capital is held
in Australian hands, the ordinaries being
owned by Jantzen Knitting Mills of
Oregon, USA. This year ordinary share-
holders got nothing, although the pre-
ference shareholders received their usual
cheques.
A host of reasons were put forward
for the loss of £34,349 on the year’s
operations. They boiled down to bad
weather and a slow return to normal
trading conditions.
The accounts are always well pre-
sented with full narrative on sales, manu-
facturing, distributing and administrative
costs.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY — (£'000)
March 31 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 640 655 855 671 677
Less current liabilities 256 257 460 274 297
Working capital 384 398 395 397 330
Fixed assets 250 262 292 281 252
Intangibles 10 10 10 10 10
644 670 697 683 642
Loan capital 119 113 108 102 97
Preference capital 135 135 135 135 135
Ordinary capital 147 147 147 147 147
Reserves 243 275 307 304 263
644 670 697 683 642
Sales 1223 1347 1456 1253 1036
Depreciation 28 32 36 39 39
Taxation 13 42 50 21 5
Net profit 20 61 61 24 -50
Preference dividend 8 8 8 8 8
Ordinary dividend 15 18 18 18 —
Surplus -3 35 45 -2 -58
Earning rate 8.2 36.0 36.2 10.5
Dividend rate 10 121 12J 12* —


BESLEY AND PIKE H’LDGS LTD
Wrapped Up its Troubles
HThe largest envelope maker in Aus-
tralia, Besley and Pike Holdings Ltd
of Brisbane, seems to have wrapped up
its troubles of the last two years.
Profit for the year to December 31,
1962, while only £15,127, was made
solely in the second half of the year.
A loss had been sustained in the six
months to June 30.
In 1961 the profit was £8244, equal
to 3.3 p.c. on capital, and the usual 124-
p.c. dividend was cut to 5 p.c. The
reduced rate was repeated for 1962.
Besley and Pike began business in
1913, and in 1958 the newly formed
holding company achieved public listing
on Brisbane Stock Exchange. From job
and stationery printing, the company
concentrated on the manufacture of
envelopes.
Paid capital has doubled in five years
with a one-for-three bonus in April,
1960, followed by a one-for-three par
issue in June, 1961. Shareholders were
also offered 7 p.c. notes convertible on
June 30, 1966, in June, 1960.
In 1961 a move was made to new
premises at Rocklea, and the non-
recurring expenditure associated with
this move strained profitability and
liquidity.
Directors are confident that the
efficient, modern machinery installed in
the new plant, which can cope with
volume production, should enable the
company to successfully combat com-
petition.
Restoration of the old 124- p.c. divi-
dend rate could be possible within a
couple of years, if the present rate of
trading continues, though no doubt
management will be anxious to protect
the company from repetition of the
embarrassments suffered in recent times
due to the lack of working capital.
Present price of around 12s. 6d. for
the 10s. shares, to yield a nominal 4.0
p.c., allows room for worthwhile
improvement over the next twelve
months. If income is important, the 10s.
convertible notes at 10s. 9d. return 6.5
p.c. and also afford opportunities for
some capital gain in the three years to
conversion date.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
December 31 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 155 161 205 217 205
Less current
liabilities 70 130 119 240 220
Working capital 85 31 86 —23 -15.
Fixed assets 113 183 240 470 465
198 214 326 447 450
Loan capital —• — 100 130 130
Ord. capital 150 150 200 300 300
Reserves 48 64 26 17 20
198 214 326 447 450
Depreciation 9 15 24 24 25
Taxation 19 19 25 3 4
Net profit 32 32 37 .8 15
Dividend 19 19 25 13 15
Surplus 13 13 12 -5 —
Earning rate 21.1 21.2 18.5 3.3 5.0
Dividend rate 12J 12£ 5 5
Dividend yield (a) 8.4 5.9 8.2 4.2 —
High price (b) 15/8 21/- 21/9 19/- 19/-
Low price (b) 11/9 15/3 20/- 17/- 10/3
(a) End of June, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar and financial year.
GODFREY PHILLIPS (H’dgs) LTD
Gallaher’s Smoke Screen?
T>ecent announcement that Gallahers,
the second biggest UK tobacco
group, would invade the Australian
market by manufacturing cigarettes from
the Melbourne premises of Godfrey
Phillips (Holdings) Ltd has sharpened
investment interest in Phillips.
The ordinary shares are all held by
Godfrey Phillips Ltd of the UK which
no longer trades in tobacco, but publi-
shes “Four Square” books. The 20s. pre-
ference shares are, however, listed on
Melbourne and Sydney Exchanges and
recent quotes of 15s. give a return of
8.0 p.c.
Since 1930 the Australian company
has been manufacturing and distributing
the cigarettes and tobaccos formerly pro-
duced by its parent.
In 1956, 16 years of severe rationing
of cigarettes and tobacco came to an end.
The artificial market had concealed
consumer preferences for a long time, and
as directors said at the time, “among
the many brands manufactured and of-
fered for sale in Australia, only a very
few appeared to retain any measurable
goodwill”.
The position for Phillips was also sub-
stantially altered by the entry of Roth-
mans of Pall Mall (Australia) Ltd to the
Australian market.
Godfrey Phillips made losses for three
years, and it took six years to recover
to a position where dividends could be
paid on ordinary capital.
The latest result, for the year to
December 31, 1962, was a profit of
£151,584 which represented the modest
earning rate of 9.7 p.c. on ordinary capi-
tal, after allowing for preference charges
of £30,000.
The company makes Albany, Du
Maurier, Peter Jackson and Viscount
cigarettes here, and imports Four Square
tobacco, Kent cigarettes and Riemeester
cigars. Its share of the total market is
well behind Rothmans and British
Tobacco.
Gallaher, a new competitor, will, as
previously mentioned, begin manufactur-
ing operations from Godfrey Phillips’
Collingwood premises. Godfrey Phillips
will also buy tobacco leaf for Gallaher
at Australian auctions.
Whether these initial overtures are the
forerunners of a closer liasion is any-
body’s guess at this stage of proceedings.
The present arrangement could, over-
all, assist Godfrey Phillips’ finances. The
company has few visible reserves, and
goodwill appears in the books at the sub-
stantial figure of over £1 million. There
is no doubt that the company could not
have survived for so long without
parental assistance.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
December 31 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 2178 3939 5348 4791 4422
Less current liabilities 828 1734 3379 2726 2408
Working capita! 1350 2205 1969 2065 2014
Fixed assets 883 987 1112 1074 1119
Intangibles 731 1031 1031 1031 1019
2964 4223 4112 4170 4152
Loan capital 657 1296 1287 1276 1267
Minority interests 245 971 825 833 775
Preference capital 500 500 500 500 500
Ordinary capital 1250 1250 1250 1250 1250
Reserves 312 206 250 311 360
2964 4223 4112 4170 4152
Depreciation 60 66 78 89 129
Taxation 1 — — 3 87
Net profit Dr 22 70 72 96 152
Net profit for ords. — 40 42 66 122
Dividends — — — — 75
Surplus — 40 42 66 47
Earning rate — 3.2 3.4 5.3 9.7
Dividend rate — — — — 6


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A C. DRAPER,
N W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(numbers ol Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVIITCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street Phone: 6989
EPIC Insurance
Rate Cut 10 p.c.
As a result of a great increase in
the number of exporters using the
facilities provided by the Export Pay-
ments Insurance Corporation, a 10 p.c.
cut has been made in all premiums for
whole-turnover policies and for insured
exports of capital and semi-capital
goods.
Insured exports jumped from £33
million to £44.5 million between June
30, 1962, and June 30, 1963 a rise
of 35 p.c.
EPIC’s Commissioner, Mr G. A. Haw-
ley, says that the number of exporters
using EPIC’s facilities increased by
25 p.c. from 298 to 373 during the
same period.
The reduced premiums will immedi-
ately benefit exporters engaged in Aus-
tralia’s traditional trade of primary pro-
ducts, raw materials and semi-manufac-
tured goods. In addition, this premium
cut could save thousands of pounds to
successful exporters undertaking large
overseas capital goods projects.
EPIC, which is owned and guaranteed
by the Commonwealth Government, is
required under its charter to promote
exports by insuring Australian exporters
against default by overseas buyers.
Mr Hawley warned that the premium
reduction did not imply any lessening in
the risk of buyer default or political or
economic hazards in overseas countries.
But lower premiums should encourage
exporters in every sector of primary and
secondary industry to penetrate all over-
seas markets with the confidence that the
hazards involved can be insured at ad-
vantageous rates.
SALT EXPORTS GROW
Oalt is growing in importance in Aus-
tralian mineral production.
In 1929, the first 20 tons of salt were
obtained from natural lake deposits on
Kangaroo Island. In 1960, production
was 463,300 tons, valued at more than
£lm., from 11 salt refining works.
Export of salt in 1961 was 60,000
tons, 53 p.c. of it to Japan and 40 p.c.
to New Zealand.
ONE TO BUY
Hilton Climbing Higher
HPhe textile industry as a whole presents
an erratic picture of development
over the last few years. Its problems are
many, internal and external.
Not without justice, and especially
since 1960, investors have shied away
from committing themselves to any but
a few thoroughly seasoned stocks.
Despite the present market ebulli-
ence, perhaps they still sense the linger-
ing atmosphere of “the longest recession
the Australian textile industry has faced
since prewar,” in the words of Prestige’s
chairman (Mr G. G. Foletta).
But Prestige has just shown a par-
ticularly happy emergence from the
weathering process. When the complete
1962-63 numbers go up in September it
should be joined by another company in
the same field, Hilton Corporation.
So Hilton’s ss. shares should be given
close attention before prices start to run
ahead on prospects and also sympatheti-
cally on an advancing market. Apart
from any appreciation, a decidedly
healthy yield will remain available a little
longer.
At 11s. 6d. the shares stand only Id.
below their 1963 top and here yield
5.8 p.c. on the existing 13i p.c. dividend.
Levels during this year have mostly
stayed above 1962 averages and have
not gone under 10s.
All sources indicate very successful
earnings for the period to June 30,
though, of course, it will take time be-
fore share prices reach the 19s. peak
attained at intervals in 1958, 1959 and
1960.
A fair measure of the immediate
relative strength comes from a more
than hopeful February interim state-
ment. Directors reported higher sales in
all divisions and an increase in group
profits up to December.
Their rider should surely be borne out
by events: “Provided the market for all
divisions remains reasonably stable, then
it is anticipated that the full year’s
results will reveal an increase over the
previous year.”
The Hilton name is primarily associ-
ated with women’s hosiery. Its range,
however, goes widely and usefully into
lingerie, men’s and children’s socks, and
yarn processing.
Something of a perpetual curiosity
among these logically related activities,
the group takes in the manufacture of
light and medium steel forgings. The
subsidiary, P. C. Miller Forgings Pty Ltd,
acquired in 1958, works largely for the
automotive industry.
Price cutting may have lessened the
benefits available from the recent motor
upsurge. Directors wish to reduce this
offshoot’s reliance on one industrial seg-
ment and are examining the possibilities
of making small tools.
P. C. Miller is plainly a sideline and
investors’ principal gaze must be directed
to the traditional textile operations.
Apart from Hilton’s own experience,
as disclosed by the February interim, the
latest production statistics portray an
improving situation in its own special
hosiery lines and in yarn processing.
Profitability of the latter activity rated
direct mention in the Prestige annual
report. Parallel success may be expected
from Hilton.
Even last year directors were able to
confirm marked recovery in the yarn
processing division. They also announced
an agreement with ICI, England, to pro-
cess “Crimplene” yarn in Australia.
Initial reception was enthusiastic. Further
success appears evident.
The latest diversification embraces
fashion lingerie and swim and casual
wear. These items are to be made and
marketed under agreements with two
American companies Van Raalte, the
largest maker of fashion lingerie in USA,
and Cole of California. Both agreements
include technical and styling advice.
Hilton, therefore, furnishes every sign
of being geared to absorb increased con-
sumer spending in all its lines. The com-
pany has kept well abreast of market
trends in hosiery and fabrics.
Financially, 1961-62 saw a 32.5 p.c.
profit recovery, from £131,465 to
£174,296, after the widespread rigors
induced by economic restrictions. A
dividend lift from 111 to 13i p.c.
accompanied the earnings rise.
No doubt can arise on further progress
up to June, while there are solid reasons
for assured advance throughout the
current year. Excitements like 1959-60’s
one-for-four bonus issue and quick return
to the 20 p.c. dividends between 1954
and i 960 need not be quickly yearned
for.
But Hilton has kept its accounts in
good and solid order. Reserves totalling
£1,503,540 stand against paid capital at
£1,150,817 (including £lOO,OOO 6 p.c.
preference) in the 1961-62 group balance
sheet. During that year both stocks and
overdraft were cut back. Net tangible
assets backing was brought to 12s. 2d.
a ss. ordinary.
The big profits of 1958, £285,131 on
then capital of £666,907, may certainly
be some distance away. At this moment,
though, investors can confidently seek
good returns from a firm and improving
group.


Legal Notices
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: BERNARD WILLIAM FREDERICK PIKE,
late of 109 Carlingford Street, Sefton, in the
State of New South Wales. TAKE NOTICE
that DAPHNE MYRTLE PIKE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1198 of 1963 on the
grounds of separation and desertion. If you
wish to defend you may file an answer in
the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 27th
August, 1963, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from ALBERT G.
KENCH & SON, Solicitors, of 117 Pitt Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
TO: EDWARD ERIC WESTON, formerly of
Carlisle, Western Australia, and Sale, Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MARY
BRIDGET WESTON has presented a Petition
to the Supreme Court of Western Australia
for a decree of dissolution of marriage against
you on the ground of separation. If you
wish to defend the petition or institute pro-
ceedings against the Petitioner you must file
your Answer in the said Court at Perth afore-
said within 28 days from the date of this
publication. In default of your so doing the
suit may proceed and the Court will pro-
nounce judgment and make orders against
you in your absence. Dated this 28th day of
June, 1963. G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
For my money
it's a...
NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS BANK
ACCOUNT
EARN
INTEREST
UP TO £3OOO
Open a National Bank Savings
Bank account today . . . and
make every pay day a put away
day.
THE NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS BANK LTD.
A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
9684/t/«a
SPECULATORS DIARY
Profit in the Upsurge
Tt was a sea of happy faces in the Stock
Exchange last week. In the general
upsurge, my best performer was Ampol
rts. The 6d. rise to Is. lid. meant that
I had doubled my money in less than a
month. Never quite daring to hope for
such a rise, I gratefully sold 3000 at an
average price of Is. lOd. on the Tuesday.
The result was a profit of £l3O or,
putting it in another way, the balance
of 2000 is in the books at minus sd.
James Hardie, which comes closest
to being classified as the leader in the
portfolio, showed complete disregard for
the rest of the market by remaining
steady. Judging by the turnover figures
since the record result, it has been heavy
going but it should now make a good
late run.
Mr Reid, the chairman of the company,
should spare a few minutes to read an
address made by Prof. D. S. Anderson,
of the University of Edinburgh, to the
Eighth International Congress of Ac-
countants in New York about Com-
munication in Accounts. Specific men-
tion was made of tax provisions. The
suggestion put forward by the professor
was that an explanation should always
be given for a material difference between
taxable profits and stated profits.
Early in his address the professor
quite rightly pointed out that accountants
were not moving with the times. The
financial presentation and the terms used
were little different and just as con-
fusing as those employed at the begin-
ning of the twentieth century. To quote:
“Even accountants are not in agreement
as to the exact meaning of some of the
terms.” To the layman, it must be a
complete mystery!
If the professor had been giving his
address in Australia, he could have
selected a very good example in the
Functional Holdings annual report of
how to baffle the shareholders. The fol-
lowing breakdown was given for a major
item in its balance sheet, Land Purchasers
Balances:
Instalments receivable on land
sold £33,333
Less profits included in instalments
of £30,466
£2,867
The profits included in instalments
were capitalised on acquisition
of subsidiary company at £28,170
And amortised during the year
from instalments received by .... £ 9,390 £18,780
AS PER BALANCE SHEET £21,647
With this sort of annual reporting
going on in industrial companies, I
decided to retreat into the mining field.
As a group, beach sand shares have
probably been the most profitable in
the market over the last two years.
One of the dangers of buying into
such a group is the fear that you are
buying at the top of the market. Yet
Associated Minerals, under the control
of Consolidated Goldfields, looks all set
for a further run.
Here is a company whose capital has
trebled since 1960, and yet it should turn
in an earning rate equal to 50 p.c. again.
The demand for rutile used in paint pig-
ments continues to grow.
A healthy contract with the American
Potash and Chemical Corporation is
held. Profits are also helped by the
surplus production going on to the
ordinary market where the weight of
demand could easily push up strongly the
present price of £A3B per ton.
The purchase of 200 Associated
Minerals was partnered by Waugh and
Josephson. Directors, still smarting after
the recent loss, have promised to confine
their energy to the two most profitable
agencies, the Caterpillar and the Deere.
I almost forgot to mention that my
broker has cut my application for 1,000
United Telecasters down to 400. What
cheek!
The other event of the week forced
upon me was the exercise of the
Courtaulds option, and so the outlay of
£720. After the sale of 200 Harden
and Johnston at 20s. ex div. and 1000
General Industries at 9s. 10d., the debit
in the account of £574 does not look
so obvious.
Details of the week’s transactions are:
SOLD
3000 Ampol rights, 1/10 £262
200 Harden & Johnston, 20/- £196
1000 General Industries, 9/10 .. £4Bl
BOUGHT
200 Associated Minerals, 35/6 £361
400 Waugh & Josephson, 12/- £246
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1500 Hanimex 23/5/62 6/9 8/11
1000 Courtaulds 14/1/63 16/1 18/-
1000 Petroleum lnv. 1/2/63 5/4 3/9
200 Philip Morris 14/2/63 34/6 36/6
400 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3 15/3
600 A. V. Jennings 28/2/63 9/10 9/9
1000 Woodside ctg. 14/3/63 4/8 2/4
500 Amagraze 8/4/63 7/6 8/3
1000 ANI 18/4/63 4/1 4/6
1000 Felt. new. 24/4/63 8/3 8/10
200 Carpet Manu. 23/5/63 23/- 21/6
800 Formfit 30/5/63 10/6 11/3
1000 Carrier 3/6/63 5/6 7/3
500 Aust. Motel Ind. 10/6/63 5/4 5/3
100 James Hardie 13/6/63 £5 £5/7/6
1000 Gen. Ind. 17/6/63 9/8 9/10
2000 Ampol rights 18/6/63 lOd. 1/5
3000 Salamander 26/6/63 2/3 3/0
1000 Waltons rts 3/7/63 10/9 11/3
400 Pioneer Concrete 3/7/63 13/9 13/9
400 United Telecasters 3/7/63 5/
200 Assoc. Minerals 8/7/63 35/6 35/6
400 Waugh & Josephson 10/7/63 T 2- 12/-


People are talking
about the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick \/ whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? j~j or
A renewal subscription?
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
months subscription to THE BULLETIN.
BULLETIN
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? More
and more people are buying the "new look"
BULLETIN for its features, its overseas and local news,
its columnists like Boadicea, Discus, Cellarmaster, its
reviews of films, books, music and theatre. If you
want to keep abreast of news and significant events
in Australia and abroad rHE BULLETIN is a must. In
addition THE BULLETIN will feature this year a series
of four-page full color features on Australian art and
other subjects. So why not fill in the form at left and
be sure of your copy each week?
The
Bulletin
A magazine of facts and ideas est. 1880
ON SALE WEDNESDAYS —2/-
" The Bulletin" Crossword No. 754
ACROSS
I—Are going mad, girl! (8)
5 The universe accommodates the small firm’s mous-
tache on South. (6)
10— Miss Heyer takes the cloth. (9)
11 — Gordon associated with him and obtained 20-down
without arms. (5)
12— Spots backspin. (4)
14— Intelligence from Hollywood? (10)
15— Yours Truly Gallicised this hard water. (3)
16— Iron stupor (anagram) (10)
18—Speaks out to advance red men among reds. (10)
19—Beverage. (3)
21— Torrid responsibilities of 7-
down in the race looking
pretty black? (10)
22 Dye a duck. (4)
24 Fiercely crazy artist to at-
tract the interest of the
auctioneer. (5)
25 Toothache is a discourage-
ment for Algernon. (9)
27 Igo wrong in the little South
Australia mountains. (6)
28— The boast of a character
assassin, an insular character.
(8) .
DOWN
1— Fluge caper under a vehicle.
(8)
2 Norman who has nothing to
do. (3)
3 American soldier doubled up
by this role played by Leslie
Caron. (4)
4 A preliminary to meeting ex-
citement for those long be-
calmed. (6, 2,6)
6 Its groans affected musicians.
(9)
7 Epigram on her frequently
suggests a correspondent with
editors. (6-2-3)
8— Rock South Carolina, listen!
(6)
9 French parent to leer at
Idriess’s rovings. (14)
13—Public Relations, level with
the dining furniture, can be
stopped. (11)
16— A non-amateur versus one
who finishes food. (9)
17— A footpad method with a hen.
(8)
20— Mascot’s Royal Mail Steamer
arrives after tea. (6)
23—Sicilians fear it before rising.
(4)
26—Miss his counterpart publicity
under 50. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 753


rr»oid» u
c
938 SMETANA
The Moldau
London Symphony Orchestra
Walter Goehr, conductor
3E* ** JSk. 30E TkSC sss
IK
942 BRAHMS
Hungarian Dances
Nos. 1,2, 3, 5 & 6
Vienna State Opera Orchestra
Hans Swarowsky, conductor
959 CHOPIN
Waltz, Mazurka, Etude,
Nocturne
Vlado Perlemuter, pianist
961 RIMSKY-
KORSAKOFF
Capriccio Espagnol
Tlie Halle Orchestra
Sir John Barbirolli, conductor
965 SCHUBERT
Moment Musical, Landler
Allegretto in C Minor
Recital by Sviatoslav Richter
FAMOUS
OVERTURES
967 Famous Overtures
Traviata, Carmen,
Figaro, Abu Hussan
Orchestras of the Vienna State
Opera and "Concert de Paris"
939 TCHAIKOVSKY
Capriccio Italien
London Philharmonic Orchestra
Sir Adrian Boult, conductor
BEtiHyvtN
945 BEETHOVEN
Fidelio Overture and
Prisoners Chorus
N.D.R. Chorus and
Nord-Deutsches Symphony
Orchestra
w
5/
956 SCHUBERT
Rosamunde
Pasdeloupe Orchestra, Paris
Carl Bamberger, conductor
964 J. STRAUSS
‘‘Voices of Spring" and
“Tales from the Vienna
Woods”
Orchestra of the Vienna Opera
966 MOZART
Eine Kleine
Nachtmusik
Boyd Neel Chamber Orchestra
Boyd Neel, conductor
l '
968 MENDELSSOHN
A Midsummer Night's
Dream
Orchestra of the Bavarian Radio
Carl Schuricht, conductor
L .P. records
of your choice
33’/, R.P.M. HIGH FIDELITY V" RECORDS
from among the 12
high-fidelity, long
playing recordings
illustrated here
for only
9'-
with membership of the Concert Hall Record Club
NOW, for the very first time, the Concert
Hall Record Club, the world’s largest re-
cording society offers to the Australian
public its vast repertoire of the world's
finest musical masterpieces, recorded in
sparkling high fidelity by artistes of inter-
national stature and at prices you would
never have believed possible.
HOW CONCERT HALL OPERATES
AND CONDITIONS OF MEMBERSHIP
You receive immediately the three 1" L.P’s
of your choice for just 9/-. Each month you
will receive free of charge a copy of the
society's Bulletin describing its latest
releases. One of these, a 12" long-playing
high fidelity recording will be selected by
its Musical Committee as the “Record of
the Month". This record will be posted to
you, unless you inform the club otherwise
in advance by means of a simple post-
card sent to you with the Bulletin.
Members who do not want the “Record
of the Month” may replace it by another
record or they may even request that no
record at all be sent that month if they so
choose. For each “Record of the Month"
sent, the member will be charged just 32/6
(plus postage) instead of the 52/6 or 57/6
you would normally expect to pay for re-
cords of this quality.
The only obligation of the membership is
to purchase as few as four records in the
course of the year from among the dozens
which will be offered. The membership
will be cancelled at any time thereafter
by means of a simple card requesting it.
Now, for the very first time, Australian
music lovers, too, can benefit from the
simple and economic Concert Hall system
to build up an impressive library of fine
recorded music at incredibly low cost. To
receive the three records of your choice
for only 9/-, post the coupon today. You
need send no money now.
ENTHUSIASTICALLY ACCLAIMED
THE WORLD OVER
“M erits the highest praise”
The Mozart Concertos are magnificent! Such virtu-
osity, such a brilliant interpretation, such flawless
technical perfection. Even in Vienna I have never
heard better. A performance which merits the
highest praise. Jv. L-B (Vienna)
“I always thought records were too dear”
I always thought records were too dear for me, and
they were before Concert Hall came to Italy! Bravo,
bravissimo Concert Hall! E. M. (Rome)
“A splendid record col lection at so little cost”
When I think that in such a short time I already have
this splendid record collection and at so little cost
fabelhaft! W. C. (Berlin)
“You’ve saved me more than $2O”
I’ve just been going over the records I purchased last
year and, do you know, what with the introductory
records and the records of the Month and the free
dividend records, I calculate you’ve saved me over $2O
L. J. (Toronto)
“The joys of good music in our own home”
For myself, my wife, my children (and many other
families who do not live in the big cities, Tam sure)
I want to thank Concert Hall sincerely for enabling
us to share the joys of good music right here in our
own home! J. R. (Skein, Norway)
POST TODAY—-SEND NO MONEY NOW
938
939
942
945
956
959
961
964
965
966
967
968
Concert Hall Record Club Pty. Ltd. Dept. 873
55 Murray Street, Pyrmont, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the (3) (4) records circled on the left for just
3/- per record (plus delivery charges), and enter my member-
ship in the Concert Hall Record Club as described in this
advertisement. I agree to purchase at least 4 records in the next
12 months from among the dozens to be offered at the money-
saving Concert Hall prices which save me up to 40% off normal
retail prices. SEND NO MONEY NOW.
SEND MY RECORD IN MONO □ STEREO □ {
Note: Stereo records must be played on a Stereo record player.
CIRCLE THE (3) (4) RECORDS OF YOUR CHOICE
Name
Address
Suburb
City State
Signature
IMPORTANT
ADDITIONAL
SAVING
If you return
the coupon
within 3 days,
you may choose
a fourth record
for only 3/-
ND 2978


ROTHMANS
KING SIZE
REALLY
SATISFIES
;V.: :■*,
l 1
u
pf LT£ R
HOt HK4H S
tALe - A *~tsrn
