

The Bulletin
MAY 18, 1963
Australia 2/-, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OFfl&vl - EST~ 1880
T gjl
MYERS
STORY
• NEGRO VIOLENCE IN AMERICA
• THE FOLK SONG BOOM


Ca-r^/e
■Hi
.
EXTB^
20
■ j.
:
■
.
.
Carlyle EXTRAS the distinctive American
blend cigarette with so many extras
EXTRA FLAVOR: Carlyle Extras give you that extra mellow
flavor of fine costly tobaccos blended to taste so good.
EXTRA FRESHNESS: Carlyle Extras are the genuine American
blend made right here in Australia for unimpaired full freshness.
EXTRA SIZE* Carlyle Extras are 18% bigger make regular
American size look small. Enjoy extra smoking pleasure in Carlyle Extras size
Only Carlyle could . . .
taste so good it's blended
£
&
/JO ju^
*** & touch
of Turkish
World Copyright
MANUFACTURED FOR THE AAAERICAN CIGARETTE COMPANY (OVERSEAS) PTY. LT^ E]l3Bc :


National Notebook
Out to the Colonies
As we advance towards the nineteen-
** seventies it becomes increasingly dif-
ficult to discern the value of State Gov-
ernors. This is an office that could have
been abolished at Federation. Now, with
the British Empire practically gone, State
Governorships provide the finest of all
retiring grounds for the British Armed
Forces.
Victoria has done extremely well in its
new Governor, Major-General Sir Rohan
Delacombe, GOC the British sector in
Berlin 1959-62. He arrived in Melbourne
resplendent in a cocked hat, and his ex-
planation was revealing.
He went into a hatter’s shop in Bond
Street, London, and asked for a cocked
hat. The gentleman at
the counter told him they
went out at Waterloo.
However, the attic had
been cleaned out the day
before and they found
one cocked hat, second-
hand. Said Sir Rohan:
“The owner had been dead for 70 years,
so the shop assistant gave it to me.”
Lady Delacombe’s remark on arrival in
Sydney seemed rather to belong to the
era of cocked hats. “It is the first time
I’ve been east of Suez, as the saying
goes,” she said. We thought that was
one saying which went some time ago,
or, at least, hadn’t been heard since 1956.
Evie Faces the Guns
Evie Hayes (“Annie Get Your
Gun”) will return to the stage after
seven years’ absence when the Bowl
Music Hall, Melbourne’s home of audi-
ence-participation melodrama, stages
Mata Hari, the Flame of Istanbul,”
later this month. The Bowl opened three
years ago with “East Lynne” which
eventually jerked the tears for more than
700 performances. “Uncle Tom’s Cabin”
and “The Face at the Window” were
other howling successes.
“Mata Hari,” although a comedy-
burlesque, will give the audience plenty
of chances to boo, hiss and throw peanuts
at the villains. It has been written and
directed by local writer-composer Alan
Vincent Jones, who has written some of
the numbers as well as weaving in plenty
of 1915 vintage old Digger songs. Miss
Hayes will play the title role as a Theda
Bara type vamp with heavy loads of
jewellery and lots of diaphanous chiffon.
She will do the dance of the seven veils
but is being secretive about the final
scene where Mata Hari
faces the firing squad.
According to the best
versions, the beautiful spy
wore her best fur coat to
the execution and, as the
rifles were raised, threw it
open to reveal herself
naked. All that Miss Hayes promises is
a “surprise” in the firing squad scene.
A Taste for Beer
Italians, traditional lovers of good
A wines, have seemingly developed a
taste for Australian beer. Last month
a trial shipment of 300 cartons of bottled
and canned West Australian Swan lager
was exported to Italy.
Within four days, Italians had drained
the last drop. An immediate SOS for
2000 extra cartons followed.
The Late, Late Show
An outbreak of cabaret-wrecking in
Fitzroy, with sulphuric acid as one
of the weapons, has Victorian police
mystified. Fitzroy, with 20,850 people to
the square mile, is Australia’s most
densely populated area, as well as being
a clear leader in Melbourne’s crime
figures. In the past 12 months almost
7000 people have been arrested in Fitz-
roy, over 100 of them on charges of
assaulting police.
Police are particularly concerned about
the number of unlicensed clubs and
cabarets in the area, many of which are
haunts of criminals and sly-grog joints.
Some dozen of these establishments are
the subject of quarantine applications
lodged by police with the Supreme Court.
If the applications are successful, police
can then have the premises closed.
Last week, the deserted Layka Cabaret
in Brunswick Street was thoroughly
wrecked by vandals using knives and
West’s Pope
Morris West’s new novel, “The Shoes
A of the Fisherman,” is due for publi-
cation in the US this month. From the
synopsis in the “Publishers’ Weekly” it
iseems good, strong stuff. It is a
“dramatic story about the problems of a
newly elected Pope from the Ukraine
who has spent many years as a prisoner
of the Russians in Siberia. He knows,
and has the grudging respect of, Russia’s
Premier. West’s story is steeped in both
the pageantry and the spiritual meaning
of the Church, and his new Pope is a
highly sympathetic, understandable per-
son. A sub-plot of a much more tem-
poral nature is the story of an American
newspaperman and a young Italian
matron who seeks annulment of her
marriage to a homosexual.”
Page
RIO’S C ARM AVAIL 1#
Will there be one next year?
•
The Bogle-Chandler Inquiry 6
The Base: Left Wing’s New Victory 7
The Head Poisoner Quits the Army 11
The Rise of the House of Myer .. 12
Bush Ballads: Click Goes the Cash
Register 19
India: Armaments for Ornaments.. 22
The New Negro: Violence in US .. 26
Great Modernists v. Little Con-
temporaries 35
Premier Bolte’s Siberia 40
Building—How to Adjust Figures .. 41
The Moonie Pipeline 46
•
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 6
AROUND MELBOURNE . . 11
OUT AND ABOUT 18
OVERSEAS 22
FORUM 26
LETTERS 28
REVIEWS 32
RED PAGE 35
A PAGE OF POETRY .... 39
MAN ON THE LAND .... 40
WORLD OF BUSINESS . . 41
FEIFFER 57
CROSSWORD 58
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone 27 5971.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone 2 0666 Ext. 380.
Vol. 85
No. 4344


sulphuric acid. Curtains, fittings and
heaters were torn from the walls, furni-
ture smashed and sulphuric acid poured
into a piano, drums and other musical
instruments. The cabaret had not been
open for some time and damage was
estimated at £2500.
The Layka was the third cabaret-club
in Fitzroy to be wrecked in this manner
t-or rather, the third one of which police
ave knowledge. Last year the near-by
Blue Angel was smashed up and had to
be closed. Early this year, the Blue
Cellar, also in Brunswick Street, was
flooded by a burst water main, while two
other clubs have had windows smashed
under cover of darkness.
Press accounts of these events have
ascribed them to vandals, but police are
now thinking that they may be due to
feuds centred in Fitzroy’s large foreign
community. They have admitted quite
frankly that it has not been easy to make
headway in their inquiries over the
cabaret-wrecking epidemic.
Striking a New Note
A group of Adelaide University
students claims a world record in
piano-wrecking. The aim is to take a
piano, reduce it to splinters and pass the
pieces through a nine-inch hole in a
board.
Arranged by the “Society for Control
of Immoral Impulses among Engineering
Students,” the record-breaking “exercise
in pianophonics” drew a large crowd of
barracking students. With axes and
sledge-hammers, 16 students shattered an
old upright in three minutes 58.7 seconds
to claim the world record from the Uni-
versity of California.
The American students, who held the
record, say they are satirising the
“obsolescence of today’s society,” but the
Adelaide students say they were only
“showing what we think of the SA educa-
tion system.”
A newspaper correspondent agreed
with the students’ view of the education
system. “It should be altered to educate
our young people to a higher grade of
mentality,” he pronounced.
A student replied with equal solemnity
that the engineers were “actually being
constructive” by “putting Adelaide on
the map” with a world record. Anyway,
the piano was not worth shedding any
tears over —it had been given away as
useless by a musical store.
The Chandeliers Come Back
ITobart City Council has been caught
in this upsurging demand for mid-
Victoriana which is making us so bit-
terly regret the kerosene lamps the city
dumped in 1936. Three immense
chandeliers dismantled and packed away
when the Town Hall lighting was con-
verted to electricity are now eagerly
being pieced together to grace the hall.
But many of the bits are missing.
Lord Mayor Basil Osborne explained
last week that the chandeliers had been
considered out of date, but now they
were fashionably desirable. Council
employees who had sought the pieces
in cases in the basement had found that
important centre columns had been lost
and some of the crystal had been
broken.
The City Architect, Mr B. L.
Dechaineux, reported that no inventory of
the several thousand pieces existed. “It’s
quite possible that somebody thought the
centre columns were old metal and dis-
carded them,” he said. “This could
have happened at the start of the war,
when documents and other valuables
were sent to the Lady Franklin Museum.”
At the week-end an expert from a
city store flew to Melbourne to consult
a company which imports chandeliers
from Czechoslovakia. They have re-
mained chic behind the Iron Curtain. He
believes the Czech factory can supply
the missing parts and provide equipment
to convert the chandeliers to electricity.
He expects a bill of £2OOO but each
chandelier would cost that much to
buy nowadays.
There seems to be more capital pro-
fit to be made from artefacts than from
a lot of shares we know.
Nature Note
T|ur nature note for the week concerns
a 15-years-old girl who is known as
Calamity Jane in her hometown of Cook-
town, in the far north of Queensland,
because of her prowess with a rifle. The
other day, however, she tested her aim
with an axe. She found her cat had been
swallowed by a hungry rock python. She
chopped the python to pieces. Out scam-
"We want America to defend us
• . . but we must have a say in it


pered the cat, its only injuries small
cuts to its paws.
Mass Conversion
Don’t think that Mildura, on the
Murray, is too far inland for waves
from the rising tide of ecumenicism to
flow into the irrigation waters. On a
recent Sunday workers from nearly every
Christian denomination in the city com-
bined to take a religious census of every
household. Most householders co-
operated and it is hoped to hold a similar
census every three years.
However, even the ecumenical tides
can produce a dumper or two. A few
weeks back a young Catholic curate here
gave his Young Catholic Workers group
a talk on Presbyterianism. He then took
them all over to the Presbyterian Church
where the minister met them, showed
them around, seated them in the church
and started to give them the Presbyterian
viewpoint. A Catholic layman, having
some business with the minister, was
directed to the church, where he found
the cream of Catholic youth with chap-
lain, apparently about to make a con-
certed move from Rome to Edinburgh.
This Week’s Cover
This week’s cover shows the entrance
A to Myers store at Chadstone on the
outskirts of Melbourne. The sculpture is
by Lenton Pass. A story of the growth
of Myers from small beginnings to rich
and varied enterprise today begins on
page 12.
Tanner
• * and we say "Yankee, Go Home'."
PLAIN ENGLISH
PAY LATER
story on page nine of this issue draws attention to the urgent need
for Australians to start seriously regarding education as a business
probably the biggest single employer of highly skilled labor in the
country and to start investing in it with common business prudence
and foresight.
Traditionally education in Australia has been approached in a wildly un-
businesslike way, despite the obvious fact that the dividends paid by invest-
ment in the training of skills are far greater than in most other fields
of investment. But, as John Paterson pointed out in The Bulletin of May 4,
we pay for it sooner or later and we are paying for it now in
uneducated teachers, declining standards, wastage of talent, overcrowded
schools, and the threatened collapse of the largest chain of independent
schools in Australia, which we have refused to subsidise because of
religious prejudice.
One aspect of this situation that has not been sufficiently touched on
is the shabby treatment given in Australia to libraries, which are the
basis of all teaching and study. The Government of NSW recently saw fit
actually to reduce its annual subsidy for school libraries from £67,000 to
£42,000, and Victoria is reported to be investigating similar economies.
Melbourne University, where the swimming pool is a fine structure and
the library inadequate and makeshift, recently diverted nearly £40,000
of its library book funds to the fund for buildings and furniture. The same
sort of thing applies to nearly all our university libraries. All the librarians
have stories about libraries being the first to suffer whenever there
is competition for money, staff or space. In fact, many libraries spend
more on stationery than on books.
Unless we adopt principles more in line with those prevailing over-
seas our educational institutions will become not simply inadequate but
a tragic joke.
IN FOOT'S STEPS
ONE0 NE aspect of Australia’s colonial burden in New Guinea that greatly
intrigued Sir Hugh Foot when he visited Australia after his UN tour
of the Territory was that Australia should continue to carry the burden at
all. The implication of his line of questioning was simply that as the load
was too great, the external pressures too formidable, the financing too
heavy and the results so unpromising that, on the face of it, it seemed ab-
surd that, as a government and a people, we simply didn’t get out and let
the island slide where it might. No doubt various compelling answers were
given, including the overriding one that we carry the burden because,
morally, we must. Another implication of this sort of questioning was
that we didn’t have a great deal of time if we were to avoid a tragedy and
that we must quickly set about bringing into existence both the form and
substance of native government in New Guinea. Mr Hasluck’s bill for
a new Legislative Council has gone a long way towards doing just that.
It could go further and, very shortly, may have to be amended so that it
can go further. One thought worth entertaining is the possibility of ap-
pointing a shadow Cabinet comprising elected and suitable New Guineans
to get some idea of ministerial responsibility. Even without an adequate
native civil service, which is some time off, such a move would perhaps
mean no more than the present intention to appoint parliamentary secret-
aries from suitable, elected native members but would have a more
resounding and hence more useful effect both inside the Territory
and beyond.


THIS AUSTRALIA
CORONER’S COURT
The Bogle-Chandler
Inquiry
The Bar v. the Press
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
J. J. LOOMES
“Not a trial”
TYespite queues and near-scuffles in
the mornings, when the public doors
opened, there was often space in the
public gallery last week in Sydney when
the inquest into the death of Dr Gilbert
Stanley Bogle and Mrs Margaret Olive
Chandler was resumed. The reason for
this was that most of the first four days’
evidence was straightforward, without
dramatic disclosures. Until last Friday,
much of the evidence had been a mere
repetition of what had appeared in gen-
eral terms in the Press during the weeks
following the finding of the bodies in
Lane Cove National Park on New Year’s
morning.
Several days’ evidence was devoted to
painstaking but largely unsuccessful
attempts to build up a precise picture of
movements at the party given by Mr
and Mrs Keith Nash in the lower North
Shore suburb of Chatswood, which the
couple attended immediately before their
death. Then came the evidence on the
finding of their bodies, some hours later.
It was only on Friday afternoon that
new unpublished evidence about the
movements of cars and people around the
park that New Year’s morning began to
emerge.
But while there was little tension and
not much color (except in the changing
costumes of the party hostess, Mrs Nash,
who wore a new outfit every day), it
seemed at times that the real issue was not
how Dr Bogle and Mrs Chandler died,
but rather the Bar v. the Press.
This sort of conflict had been fought
out in the same court room, Number 3,
at Sydney Central Court of Petty Ses-
sions, in Sydney’s other two big inquests
of recent years—the Thorne inquiry and
the Yeates inquest. The interim has seen
the passing of a new NSW Coroners
Act, partly at the instigation of a Bar
Council inquiry into the conduct of Cor-
oners’ courts that followed the Yeates
inquest. The present Bogle-Chandler in-
quest has been the first major test of this
act.
Tied up with the question of the rights
or otherwise of the Press is the whole
question of the conduct of inquiries and
the mode of questioning allowed. The
resumed inquest had only been in pro-
gress last week for 22 minutes when Mr
Kevin Murray, appearing for the hus-
band of Mrs Geoffrey Chandler, was
on his feet to make his first objection,
claiming that Sergeant Goode, assisting
the Coroner, was asking leading ques-
tions.
This old bone of contention in Coron-
ers’ inquests was to be disinterred re-
peatedly throughout the first four days.
An inquest is not bound by the normal
court rules of evidence because in the
words used by the Coroner, Mr Loomes,
in this case, it is an “investigation, not
a trial.”
Mr Murray lost on his objection and
although later backed by Mr W. T. D.
Ward, for Mrs Bogle and relatives, and
Mr Collins, for Mrs Chandler’s parents
and brothers, on another objection about
witnesses giving vague impressions, he
lost there, too.
But the three lawyers combined that
first afternoon in response to a Press
request for permission to photograph ex-
hibits tendered: a rough drawing by Bogle
contributed as a party game, the guest
list of the Nash party, and some name
tags from the party. Mr Ward saw
the requests as “a whittling down of
one of the elementary principles of jus-
tice,” while Mr Murray foreshadowed
clearly his intention to invoke a new sec-
tion of the recently amended Act, Section
42, which specifically gives the Coroner
right to suppress publication of evidence.
The Coroner then rejected the Press
application for right to photograph.
Next morning saw another long argu-
ment on the right of the Press to look at
the exhibits. Here Mr Loomes finally
ruled against the barristers, but referred
back to an 1827 judgment which
said in part: “Cases may occur in
which privacy may be requisite for the
sake of decency (or) may be due to the
family of the deceased.” Mr Loomes
said that he believed that statement to be
as true today as it was 136 years ago,
which provided a clear indication that if
the question was raised and argued later
there could be suppression of publication
of evidence.
But the question of the role of the
Press was still unsettled. Next morning
Mr Ward mounted the strongest attack
on the Press yet over the publication of
artists’ representations of the Bogle party
drawing. He spoke of the Press jub-
lishing the transcript for their ‘own
personal gain and profit.” He wanted a
firm stand on exhibits because the
“had proved itself irresponsible already.
In reply Mr Loomes said that a sinister
THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST CIGARETTES
TTere is the ironclad vow taken by
the members of a Young
Women’s Anti-Tobacco Association:
“I, Jane Jenkins (or whatever the
name may be), solemnly pledge my
sacred honour that I will never again
kiss any young man, his father,
brother, uncle or cousin, who chews,
smokes or snuffs, or carries any
cigarettes. I further declare that I
will not allow any such person to sit
up with me in the night time, either
in parlour, summer-house, or any
other place: neither will I ride out at
night in a covered carriage or buggy,
with any such cigarette smoker.”
Some women, however, thought it
would be better to agree to kiss all
those who soiled their lips with
tobacco,
Payment. Time Payment,
Time Payment.—H. LEVY and
CO., Central Furnishing Arcade, 29,
31, and 33, Park-street. The only
house in Sydney where you can
furnish on the New Time Payment
System, from £lO to £.lOOO. No
Bills of Sale. All goods are Marked
in Plain Figures.
ffijtiulUtCn
May 19, 1883


construction could have been placed on
the sketch if left unpublished, so it was
a good thing it had been published.
There were no further battles over the
Press role at the end of the week, but
it was clear that the application of Section
42 would have to emerge again.
It was not surprising that the barristers
were somewhat psychologically overborne
by the Press. The average number of
pressmen present in court was usually
about 20 and when the Coroner
and counsel went to Lane Cove
National Park to view the scene
where the bodies were found, they were
followed by ten carloads of .pressmen,
photographers, radiomen and TV camera-
men.
THE BASE
The Left’s New Victory
The sinister initiative
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
FRANK STEWART
More defence
fl (£>[?[? nTP T ABORS Right wing
He) U L u won the battle
at the ALP Federal
Conference on the Exmouth Gulf radio
communications centre by one vote.
But the Left wing has been winning the
propaganda battles fought since.
Actually, whether it was planned or
the result of pure chance, the Left wing
has done a job that technically must be
admired for its brilliance. When the
ALP Conference endorsed the establish-
ment of the communications centre —
while this endorsement was ambiguous
as to terms —it was open for Labor’s
Right wing, which is just as anxious as
Prime Minister Sir Robert Menzies and
his followers to have the base established,
to express its support for the base.
There are those in the Federal Parlia-
mentary Labor Party who have gone
much further than merely advocating
that the US should have a communica-
tions centre in Australia which, among
other things, would relay messages to
nuclear-powered and armed US sub-
marines. Mr Frank Stewart, Labor MHR
0r Sydney’s Lang, once ran into trouble
|'ith Labor’s Left wing-oriented Federal
osses by advocating that Australia
should itself acquire tactical nuclear
Weapons. Mr Kim Beazley; from Western
ustralia, now a member of the Federal
ar liamentary Labor Party Executive, at
one stage urged that Australia should
famine the possibility of acquiring its
°" n nuclear submarines.
There are others in the party who,
ni °re discreet than Stewart and Beazley
j* n more fearful of the machine bosses,
, a^ e not voiced the same views as them
11 who hold them. In normal circum-
ances ALP Federal Conference
decision, however grudgingly given,
would have enabled these Parlia-
mentarians to emerge from their
anonymity to express support for the
establishment of the base.
But the Left wing boldly seized the
initiative. Without directly opposing the
base, they have insinuated that there is
something very sinister about its estab-
lishment and purpose. Both Mr Cairns
(Labor, Vic.) and Mr James (Labor,
NSW) have suggested that the Menzies
Government should ascertain the views
of other governments in the South-East
Asian and Indian Ocean areas about
what Mr Cairns described as “the estab-
lishment of the nuclear bases centre in
Western Australia.”
Mr Uren (Labor, NSW) wanted to
know was it not a fact that no missile
would be fired from a Polaris submarine
without the firing order coming directly
from President Kennedy himself and, if
this was so, how would the order be con-
veyed to the submerged missile-carrying
Polaris submarines in the Indian Ocean?
In this manner the Left-wingers deftly
built up the notion that Exmouth Gulf
was, in Mr Cairns’ key phrase, a “nuclear
bases control centre in Western Aus-
tralia” and not, as the Government said,
a radio communications centre for use
as part of the US retaliatory strength
only in the event of direst emergency.
The Left-wingers’ very shrewd propa-
ganda undoubtedly frightened Labor’s
Parliamentary Right wing. The Right-
wingers were too frightened to open
their mouths. They did not want to be
accused of being “warmongers” or
branded as being advocates of nuclear
war.
The only non-Left-winger who piped
up was Mr Harry Webb (Labor, WA)
and, though he went on a local angle,
he was probably expressing what was
the viewpoint of the bulk of the Right
wing, though they were too frightened to
express it.
Mr Webb did not want less defence.
He wanted more. “In view of the Prime
Minister’s statement that the proposed
naval communications centre at North-
west Cape will be solely a radio centre
a view supported by the American
Vice-Admiral J. S. Thach will he
further consider the establishment of a
naval base with docking facilities at
Cockburn Sound or some other suitable
place on the western coast of Western
Australia?”, Webb was bold enough to
ask.
But this was a very solitary Labor
voice calling for further defence. The
rest of the Right wing went very quiet,
and, irrespective of what decision comes
out of this week’s meeting of the
Federal Parliamentary Labor Party, my
judgment is that the Left wing is a long
way along the road to winning the
propaganda battle. Even if Caucus at
this week’s meeting formally decides not
to oppose the communications centre the
Left wing has achieved one objective.
It has made the centre suspect in Labor
eyes, and probably prevented any Labor
support coming for its establishment.
ELECTIONS
Grey Campaign
Undue Influence?
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
Grey by-election campaign in SA
opened with political intrigue and
mystery. Five candidates originally con-
sidered standing, but one, Miss Esme
Russell, the daughter of the late Mr
E. H. D. Russell, whose recent death
caused the by-election and who was
planning to nominate as an Independent
Labor candidate, withdrew.
Mr Russell was a staunch Labor man,
with nearly 20 years’ service in Grey.
Miss Russell’s unexpected withdrawal
started a Commonwealth investigation
to find whether she had been subjected
to any undue influence. She admitted
that the Federal Opposition Leader, Mr
Calwell, and his deputy, Mr Whitlam,
had telephoned her. Without naming
her advisors, Miss Russell said she had
withdrawn after it had been “pointed
out” that she would be reflecting on her
father’s long service by standing as an
unendorsed Labor candidate. “I should
have gone on ... I cannot see now how


anything I should wish to do in politics
could have reflected on my father,” she
said.
The mystery candidate was a Mr L. F.
Kent, who is standing as an Independent.
It was eventually discovered that he was
a part aborigine, who was born and had
worked on Koonibba Mission, near
Ceduna. He served as ground staff with
the RAAF in World War 11, and had
lived in Sydney for several years before
returning to SA.
Last week, the Prime Minister, Sir
Robert Menzies, opened the by-election
campaign for the LCL candidate, Mr
V. H. Dyason. The night was notable
for interjections. One man was thrown
out by police when he marched up to the
platform after Sir Robert quoted a “well
known” statistic that in a population of
800 there w'as bound to be “a couple
of nuts.”
The Prime Minister surprisingly failed
to mention the recent Government
decision to standardise the Port Pirie-
Broken Hill railway, part of which
passes through Grey ward. He talked
about Australia’s position in the nuclear
world, the Exmouth Gulf communica-
tions base, Malaysia and economic
stability. As an afterthought, before
leaving for Canberra, Sir Robert said
standardisation plans would proceed
“w'ith all speed.”
The Grey ward is considered a Labor
stronghold, but if Sir Robert Menzies’
experience is any indication, the by-
election promises to be lively.
ARNHEM LAND
The Cattlemen Move In
Unless the missionaries stir up anti-white feeling
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
North Australian Cattlemen’s
Association is the latest body to join
in the mounting chorus seeking economic
development of Arnhem Land.
For decades past the 38,000 square
miles aboriginal reserve has been sacro-
sanct from white intrusion. “Gin burg-
lars” who sneak in looking for lubras
are prosecuted. Legitimate crocodile
shooters are hounded along the coast and
threatened with confiscation of their
boats and equipment if caught ashore.
Missionaries act as unpaid vigilantes,
guarding the borders of an empty land —
empty because since word of free tucker
and picture shows got about, even the
natives have deserted its rugged interior,
and now huddle around missions and
settlements on the shore of the Arafura
Sea. You can fly the length and breadth
of Arnhem Land today and not see a
sign of human habitation away from
the coast, except perhaps an occasional
smoke from a hunting party or group of
runaway lepers.
When the reserve was created it w 7 as
useless as cattle country, being remote
from markets and centres of population.
It was to be a refuge for the aboriginal
race, then declining and believed to be
headed for extinction. But the natives
refused to disappear and today they are
increasing at a greater rate than the
whites. But they have deserted Arnhem
Land for the missions, and for the
fleshpots of Darwin, Katherine, and Pine
Creek.
At the same time there has been a
change of feeling about the reserve on
economic grounds. Previously it had been
dismissed as worthless. Now the president
of the North Australian Cattlemen's As-
sociation (Mr Jim Martin) says: “The
construction of export abattoirs here and
in Darwin changes everything. There has
never been a pastoral survey of Arnhem
Land. For all we know much of it may
be good cattle country, now that
markets are available within easy dis-
tance.”
Mr Martin said years ago he had
knowm a man, Gidgee Symes, who worked
on Florida Head station in Arnhem Land
in the 1880 s. Symes had said it was great
cattle-fattening country, but that wild
blacks forced its abandonment. Martin
added: “There are no natives at all in
the area now. If it is so good—and those
old fellow's have got a habit of being
right—it should be opened up instead
of left lying waste. The new abattoir at
Katherine has provided a market which,
given roads, is quite accessible to the
Goyder River. The Government should
make a pastoral survey of the W'hole of
Arnhem Land and, failing that, throw it
open so that cattlemen can go and have
a look at it for themselves.”
Massive pending development of
bauxite deposits at Gove, with a new
town in the making, gives Australia a
unique opportunity to put population on
its empty northern coast. This will be
lost when the bauxite eventually peters
out unless men, white or black, are given
the opportunity to take up land behind
Gove to grow food for the mine workers.
Others who deserve consideration are
the crocodile shooters who, with no en-
couragement or assistance at all from
the Government, have built up an in-
dustry which may soon be worth £250,000
annually to the Territory. It would not
be hard to set up a system of licences
with closed areas around the missions,
which would allow legitimate hunters to
go about their business in this empty
area. Instead we have the unpleasant
spectacle of Australians being hounded
from a part of the Australian coast.
It is no secret that natives, provided
they are cared for adequately and per-
haps hurried a little faster than at present
along the road to true equality with the
white man, will not care who shoots their
crocodiles; nor, for that matter, who
associates with their women, so long as
“the price is right”.
Despite the pratings of critics in the
south, most of whom have never seen a
full-blood aboriginal, the Territory has
been mercifully free of racial tensions. If
individual missionaries, through an ex-
cess of zeal or other motives, show signs
of encouraging the growth of anti-white
feeling, they should be thrown out of
Arnhem Land and replaced by practical
men with the good of their country at
heart.
INDUSTRY
The Motor Boom
Keener than ever
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
Tn a whip round the big motor manu-
facturers in Victoria last week The
Bulletin found some worries here and
there from competition from rival
models, but no signs of the motor boom
fading before a boom in the rest of the
economy has begun. Most of the indus-
try is still going flat out to squeeze more
cars from production lines and to satisfy
dealers on a hand-to-mouth basis. Coup-
ling this with firm evidence from record
motor registrations, new plans for e x *
panding capacity and keener-than-ever
interest in the Melbourne Motor Show, it
all adds up to an industry, highly confi-
dent of a rising state of activity.
Nor, it seems, is any thought that the
sales pace is too hot to last weighing
heavily on the motor-makers, whose busy
preparations for increasing output sug-
gest that when this boom does fade, they
expect to find another just around the
corner. Support for this view is seen in-
dustry-wide, from the start of the assem
bly of Japanese cars at the Australian


Motor Industries’ Port Melbourne Plant
to the announcement of Ford’s expansion
plans.
Ford, following GMH’s £ls million
lead last year, is now to the fore in pro-
jecting new capacity with firm new plans
to spend another £l2! million in Vic-
toria (most of this at Geelong) and £1
million at Eagle Farm, near Brisbane.
Fords say this expenditure aims to lift
its overall production of cars from a
present daily rate of 250 to 440.
This will put Ford production a lot
nearer GMH’s present daily rate of
about 700, comprising 650 Holdens and
50 of other makes (Pontiac, Chevrolet,
Vauxhall and Bedford). But GMH told
us that its own current expansion pro-
gramme will lift its overall production to
about 820 a day.
POLICE
Deadly 50 Yards
“No fancy stuff”
FROM A BRISBANE, CORRESPONDENT
Queensland policemen will now be
trained in snap-shooting at moving,
man - sized targets, under conditions
simulating actual combat, on the roof
of Police Headquarters in Brisbane. The
course also includes rapid fire, reloading
quickly and shifting from the left hand
to the right hand. (“We leave the fancy
stuff to television. Police work is con-
cerned with accuracy,” explained bal-
listics expert Detective-Sergeant Les
Bardwell.)
All this activity will follow the
decision of the Minister in charge of
police (Mr Jack Pizzey) to rescind an
order of the Police Commissioner (Mr
Frank Bischof) which has barred police
from making a practice of carrying guns
since 1959. A policeman now can
apply for permission to carry a pistol
If he can establish that he needs it for
his own protection.
The Acting Police Commissioner (Mr
F- M. Anthony) said he expected that
fewer than 50 p.c. of the State’s 2600
policemen would apply for a permit.
The Queensland Police Union, which
campaigned to rearm the force, estimates
closer to 75 p.c.
A German .32 calibre automatic,
deadly over 50 yards, was being con-
sidered at time of going to press as the
standard weapon for the Queensland
Police. It would replace the “ten bob
cannons” .38 Army revolvers bought
Pr 10s. in 1961 and which were dis-
tributed to police stations throughout the
a te for use only in an emergency.
SCHOOLS
Education is Big Business
State Aid as an Investment
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
J. BLOOMFIELD
Local Taxes
Tt is time, according to Mr E. L.
A Wheelwright, that we began to regard
education as an industry, “a big business
with a turnover of £2OO million, a work
force of 100,000 probably the biggest
single employer of highly skilled labour
in the country —and customers number-
ing 2± million.”
He was summarising what turned out
to be the theme of the Fifth Autumn
Forum on the “Economics of Education”
held by the Economics Society in Mel-
bourne last week. But he presented
the increasing interest in education
as an investment as a return to old
tradition: Adam Smith, for example, had
written in 1776 that “the improved
dexterity of a workman may be con-
sidered in the same light as a machine
or instrument of trade which facilitates
and abridges labour, and which, though
it costs a certain expense, repays that
expense with a profit.” Yet today, to-
take one instance, efficient industries
spend up to a 7 per cent, of turnover on
research, while our expenditure on
educational research probably amounts
to no more than a £ of 1 per cent.
The three principal papers (now pub-
lished by the Victorian Branch of the
Economic Society, ss. each) were
by Mr. Wheelwright (“Costs, Returns
and Investment in Education'’), Dr. R.
M. Parish (“The Economics of State
Aid”) and Mr A. F. Tylee (“Problems
and Progress in Senior Technical Educa-
tion in Victoria”).
While agreeing on education as an
investment, the first two differed sharply
on ideological grounds, particularly on
the question how investment should be
encouraged.
Wheelwright, socialist and centraliser,
presented the familiar Galbraithian thesis
that the prevailing climate of opinion in
contemporary society exerts continuous
pressure to hold back public expenditure
and to expand private expenditure. He
pointed out that Australia is a com-
paratively lightly taxed nation and com-
mended a suggestion of Galbraith’s that
a special educational tax be levied on
companies as a proportion of payrolls.
Parish, liberal and decentraliser, claim-
ed, on the contrary, that our neglect of
education sprang not so much from
community attitudes as from clumsy
political processes. He advocated the
provision of State aid to private schools
as a means of harnessing private effort in
support of education and of fostering
variety in schools, innovation in educa-
tional techniques and parental interest
in educational matters. He pointed out


ir
s
r
THE
COONAWARRA ESTATE
The vineyard and the old stone
cellars are in the care of dedicated
men who have retained many of
the traditional hand-methods in
carefully producing Australia’s
finest table wines.
Each bottle is marked with its
vintage year and carries a back
label clearly showing where the
Estate is located.
COONAWARRA ESTATE* CLARET is
made from the original Shiraz
(Hermitage) vineyard.
COONAWARRA ESTATE CABERNET
is vintaged from 70 acres of the
rare Cabernet Sauvignon.
COONAWARRA ESTATE RIESLING
comes from a new vineyard of
Rhine Riesling.
'“Estate" (as the word “ Chateau ” in France) is used to
distinguish the wine as being the genuine product of the
I winegrowers' own vineyard.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors: S. WYNN & CO.PTY.LTD.
that our existing policy of subsidising
education only through the provision of
free public schools positively discouraged
voluntary private expenditure on educa-
tion. By encouraging the growth of pri-
vate schools and voluntary expenditure,
State aid would result in more decisions
regarding education being made outside
the political arena.
There was general agreement, how-
ever, that more variety and innovation in
education were needed. The Victorian
Minister for Education, Mr J. Bloomfield,
in opening the Forum, advocated a
measure of decentralisation in the
organisation of education as a means
of taking advantage of local support. A
visit to England and the United States
had convinced him that people, partici-
pating in local groups, are willing to tax
themselves to achieve concrete, visible
benefits, whereas they are unwilling to
consent to higher general taxation;
Even Mr S. Murray-Smith, who looked
forward to the time when “the last
school chaplain was strangled with the
last old-school tie”, thought that co-opera-
tion between the State and the private
school systems should be facilitated by
arrangements for the transfer of teachers
between the two systems without loss of
seniority and superannuation rights.
COMPANIES
Revelations from the Receiver
On the wrong side of Elizabeth St.
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
TTntangling the skein of assets and
liabilities of the Reid Murray group
brought forth some startling revelations
from the Receiver last week not only on
the likely deficiencies in the two Bourke
Street subsidiaries, Hicks Atkinson and
Payne’s Bon Marche, but also on the
debt owed by the whole group to the
National Bank which instigated the
receivership.
On the showing of the Receiver it
appears that the National is owed more
than £4 million by Reid Murray, so it
was perhaps ironical that the virtual
author of the debt was one of the Bank's
former clerks, Oswald James O’Grady.
The National stands a good chance
of getting this money back, but the posi-
tion is not so hopeful for the unsecured
creditors of Hicks Atkinson and Payne.
The Receiver thinks the deficiencies of
these two subsidiaries combined could
easily be as much as the sum owed the
National by the whole group.
The bulk of the £4 million or so de-
ficiency of the two companies has been
discovered in Payne’s, the main vehicle
used by O'Grady to initiate Melbourne
housewives into his well-tried Adelaide
methods of credit retailing following the
invasion of the eastern States’ shopping
scene by his fast-moving David Murray
Ltd, in 1955.
After setting up shop in a 30s. a week
rented room in Racecourse Road, New-
market, with four itinerant salesmen in
that year, O'Grady soon took Payne’s in
his stride, the first in a welter of take-
overs which led him two years later to
join with Flinders Lane warehouseman
Robert Reid to form Reid Murray Hold-
ings. Hicks Atkinson, one of the oldest
established Melbourne stores, was an
adopted child of that marriage.
High hopes were entertained for Hicks
Atkinson in the heyday of the boom and
Reid Murray poured untold money into
spreading the store over a vast acreage
running through from Bourke to Col-
lins Street to cater largely for the luxury
trade. But knowing retailers were always
sceptical of the future of this business
on the wrong side of Elizabeth Street.
Now it is up for sale.
As with Payne’s, on which no decision
about selling has yet been made, the
leading question is how much Hicks
Atkinson will fetch. Nobody can say,
with so much depending on the realisable
value of stocks and on what can be
recouped of inter-group debts. The Re-
ceiver is far less optimistic than the
directors.
LAW
Committals
Prejudices?
FROM A TASMANIAN CORRESPONDENT
A revolutionary plan to eliminate
committal proceedings against per-
sons charged with less serious criminal
offences will be submitted to the Tas-
manian Parliament by Attorney-General
Roy Fagan. His aim is to save the thne
of witnesses, court officials and police,
and to lessen the risk of accused per-
sons’ Supreme Court trials being pre-
judiced by reports of proceedings in the
magistrates’ courts.
There is no question of the colossal
waste of time involved in the magistrates
hearings. Nor is the risk of prejudice
absent in a small State, in which potential
jurymen will almost certainly read the
newspaper reports of the committal pro-
ceedings.
Mr Fagan, however, has somewhat
dimmed the effectiveness of his plan by
proposing that committal proceedings
will not be dispensed with in murder,
manslaughter, rape and major theft trials.
It is in these that the committal procee
ings are most likely to be comprehen-
sively reported by the newspapers.
As a safeguard, he proposes that a
persons charged with criminal offences
shall have the choice of a committa
hearing or summary transfer to t e
Supreme Court’s jurisdiction. If 110
major objections are revealed in practice,
the State should then consider extending
the new system to all criminal cases.


Around Melbourne
THE HEAD POISONER QUITS THE ARMY
rTHE Army’s chief poisoner got his
discharge here in Melbourne last
week. Of course, you might be one
of those who would call him a
Babbling Brook, a Chief Bait Layer,
or even a Crippen. Crippen was a
favorite name for cooks in the British
Army. Hawley Harvey Crippen, a
most meek, inoffensive little man, was
long regarded as the archtype of
English murderers. One evening he
quietly poisoned his wife with hyo-
scine.
So, as I made my way up Lonsdale
Street, I conditioned myself for the
interview. Our own wartime cook had
an interesting record. It was said that
he had done his time at Pentridge. He
had been through all the musterings
—driver, fitter, mechanic, storeman,
and, seeing that he had shown a sur-
prising lack of skill at these muster-
ings, the wise heads at the Barracks
naturally concluded that he would
make a brilliant bait layer. And he
did indeed. Often he gave us meals
that wouldn’t have been fit for a
boarding school.
Well, Lieutenant-Colonel Jock Kerr,
chief of the Army Catering Service
since 1958, turned out to be a big,
friendly, talkative Scot. “You look
here,” he said, “the Australian is the
most conservative eater in the world.
If you give him anything new you
have to do it very carefully, sur-
reptitiously. It has taken us years to
educate the Army eater and we would
not have done it without all the New
Australians. You Know what they get
now, don’t you? Marvellous food, a
choice at every meal. Matter of fact,
they’ve just been through the Chinese
food craze chicken chow mein,
sweet and sour pork—all that sort of
thing.
“We’ve gone from that to the Ita-
lian craze. Have a look at these menus
• • . canneloni, gnochi a la ro-
ma'ne, risotto milanaise, rice
pilaff. Imagine Diggers taking to rice?
Or look here—chocolate cream bava-
r°is, bombe praline. A few years back
they would have thought bombe pra-
line was a subversive weapon.”
With still an hour to go to lunch
the man was becoming frightfully
tempting. It was important to get him
ack to hard times. He said that the
first serious attempt to lay down
army rations was made just before
1812. Twelve hundred troops from
His Majesty’s Forces were assembled
at Salisbury and a route march was
planned. At 6 a.m. every man was
weighed. Then they were marched
all day, some 25 miles or so, then
weighed again at 10 p.m. The average
loss in weight was three pounds.
From this the War Office came to
the instant conclusion that a soldier
needed 31b of food to replace
it. Therefore every day the ration
would be lib of bread, 11b of
potatoes, and lib of meat. This
system remained until 1850, when
they cut down the potatoes and in-
troduced such delicacies as butter and
jam.
However, the ingenious system of
1812 went on and on. Indeed, the
Australians went to war on a ration
that was not vastly different. Every
man was entitled to lib of meat,
lib of bread, 12oz of fresh vege-
tables, 2oz of cheese and such things
as l/32nd of an ounce of pepper.
Ah, but Jock Kerr is prepared to
fight for his cooks. “I believe the
cooks in the war did the best they
could, and they didn’t get many
thanks. The Australian is a whinger
about his food. He looks upon it as
an entertainment, an amenity.
“He probably wouldn’t complain
about his rifle or his ammunition,
but he’d whinge about his M. and V.
The Tommy, he’s different. He ac-
cepts things. If you give him enough
pudding and potatoes he’s happy.”
Obviously here was a time to ask
the colonel how he endured the war-
time food. The idea was a failure. He
was a Scot and he was happy too.
He ate porridge several meals a day.
“It was hard for the cooks, you
understand. There was bully beef, M.
and V. and that dehydrated beef that
looked like sheep’s droppings.
“Yet they were resourceful, these
cooks. We had a bombardier cook
Ivho carried a chook all around New
Guinea. It used to lay three eggs
every week. You know the last time
I saw this cook? The Japs weren’t
far off, and there he was crossing
the Puriata River at Bougainville with
that darned chook on the top of his
hat. 1 often wondered what happened
to him.”
Colonel Jock Kerr admitted that
some of the dehydrated foods were
very trying, but he was an obvious
devotee of bully beef. He said there
was a school that had the idea the
name bully was derived from the
French “bouilli'’ —boiled. He wouldn’t
have that for a moment. Back in
1870, when Charles Todd was con-
structing his telegraph from Port
Augusta to Darwin, the Government
offered £lO,OOO to the first drover
who could take sheep or cattle across
the continent and provide fresh meat
for the telegraph men.
In the meantime, J. V. Hughes, of
Booyoolee Station, in South Aus-
tralia, packed beef in tins, which
fed the men for two years. The red
labels on the tins were branded
'"Booyoolee Beef.”
I could detect a note of pride in
the colonel’s voice as he said: “Yes,
Australia gave bully beef to the world.
Australia sent an awful lot of it to
the Boer War. One of the tins turned
up in 1953 —it was 52 years old. We
opened it up in Sir William Angliss’s
office. Edible? Yes.”
The average age of the cooks at
the end of the war was 35. Now it
is 22. According to Jock Kerr the
job of cook is most sought after. The
kids join the Army to learn the trade,
and they learn it so thoroughly that
they are immediately acceptable any-
where. In fact, right now, the Ser-
vices were training most of the pro-
fessional cooks in the country. In
fact, what was good for the trainees
is good for the master. Lieutenant-
Colonel Jock Kerr, at 53, has just
started as principal of the School of
Hotel and Catering Administration
at the William Angliss Trades School.
Before this school started, young hotel
men had to go to England or Switzer-
land. They do a tough four-year course
which takes in economics, account-
ancy, dietetics, the lot.
Don’t you think it’s rather marvell-
ous that the old head-poisoner is now
the professor for all our luxury hotel
men?
BATMAN


The Rise of the House of Myer
It all began with stockings hawked from a cart
By J. C. KAYE
A portrait of the late Sidney Myer in
the prime of life, painted by the late
Sir John Longstaff, shows him in
a dark purple suit with a pearl pin in
his tie. He could be an oil mogul from
Rumania, another Gulbenkian, or even
an earlier Mikoyan. There’s a touch of
Stanley Korman about him, too. The
sitter was, in fact, at that time a prince,
a merchant prince who felt himself a
king, and who knew the foundations of
his dynasty had been laid.
Longstaff caught much of the excitable
pride of Sidney Myer, the southern Rus-
sian Jew, who could both rage and weep
uninhibitedly when the necessary frus-
trations arose. You see the crisp dark
hair, the well-built body, the lightly-
swarthy face, the disturbing blue eyes,
the carriage of the head imitated still
by some Myer executives.
Sidney Myer, formerly Simcha Baevski,
was the poor immigrant from Kritchev,
on the river Sosch, who made a million,
died suddenly in Woorigoleen Road, near
his Toorak mansion in 1934, at the age
of 56, and was buried, after an Anglican
ceremony, at Box Hill. The business he
and his quiet brother, Eicon, began in
Bendigo in 1905, with Sidney hawking
stockings and other stuffs around in a
cart, has become the greatest universal
provider outside the USA. No limit to
its growth is yet in sight. Look around.
The Myer group now have the big store
in Bourke and Lonsdale Streets in Mel-
bourne, the provincial branches in Gee-
long and Ballarat, and the new £6 mil-
lion drive-in at Chadstone, 10 miles out
of town, which is already turning in a
profit.
In New South Wales they have Farm-
er’s in the city and at Gordon. They
acquired, through taking over Farmer’s
for £22 million in 1961, the Western
Stores group with shops in Orange, Bath-
urst, Dubbo, Wellington, Narromine,
Penrith, Gilgandra, Cowra, Grenfell,
Molong, Tamworth and Tweed Heads.
The Myer thrust into NSW has been the
most sensational of all the firm’s modern
changes.
In Queensland the group is both Mc-
Whirters and Allan and Stark (now
merged operationally in Brisbane) with
the drive-in at Chermside, and the stores
at Cooparoo and Toowoomba. In Hobart
it is Brownells. In Adelaide it is Myers,
a goldmine since Sidney bought it there,
six years before his death, in his one
interstate venture. As the Myer group
has only a 54 per cent holding, this store
publishes its separate accounts and
shows a profit of £1 million, and more,
a year.
The Myer group has not yet moved to
Western Australia, but every now and
then one of the top brass drops a re-
mark that the West has not been for-
gotten, which is enough to make Boans
and Foys there give a twitch.
Business is brisk at all points. Sales
of the group were just under £lO4 mil-
lion in the year to July 31 last, an in-
crease of £ls million in a year. The
total is around three per cent of all
retail sales in Australia, apart from
motor vehicles, parts, petrol, etc. Group
net profit to July 31 was just under
£4 million. The group continued its con-
servative policy of retaining up to nearly
half of net profit, but no shareholder
screams have been heard.
Expansions are being financed almost
entirely from the group’s own resources.
At Preston, a northern Melbourne in-
dustrial suburb, the group is to open
another drive-in next year. Myers do not
yet own their Preston site but have an
18-month option on the land. The group
already owns 86 acres at Burwood, an
eastern suburb, for future use. A
new hexagonal-shaped Chadstone-type
drive-in on nine acres at Miranda, south
of Sydney, is due to open by March next
year.
Then there is Bass Hill, three miles
from Bankstown, NSW. The group,
through Barclay Investments, moved in
quietly in 1958 and bought up about 60
acres of green-belt land for £197,000,
paying around 10 times the then value of
the space. But the area is now rezoned, a
green-belt no longer. Barclay Investments
is not a subsidiary but is a Myer family
company owning among other invest-
ments a large block of Myer Emporium
shares.
Until regional centres began, the Myer
method of expansion was traditional. It
camped in a spot, and ate up surround-
ing business to expand. It continues to
do this.
The new drive-in idea opens up strik-
ing possibilities. At Chadstone, for ex-
ample, Myers have the dominating store
and let out minor space to 85 tenants


—including Buckley and Nunn Ltd, their
Bourke Street neighbor and rival. Shop
rents are based partly on shop income—
another American idea.
The Myer people, asked to explain
the secrets of all this success, have a
stock reply about “keeping a jump ahead
of the opposition’’ . . . “blood, sweat and
tears” . . . “loyal and devoted staff.” In
truth, Sidney should still get the credit.
As with Adam and the human race—
without him, nothing.
With Sidney in glory, but more un-
obtrusively, history must link Lee Neil,
the canny Manchester-born Scot whom
Sidney took over with Wright and Neil
when he bought into Bourke Street, for
£91,000 in 1911. Lee Neil outlived his
turbulent immigrant colleague by only
three months. It is said that it is more
or less in memory of the teetotal Neil
that, to this day, Myers sell no alcoholic
drinks.
Norman takes over
Myer, known in the store as
“E. B. Myer,” had a short, quiet
reign after Lee Neil’s death, but then
Norman, Sidney’s favorite nephew, from
near Smolensk, took over at the top in
1938. Sidney had Norman taught Eng-
lish, and sent him to Wesley, the Metho-
dist public school. But, even as Sidney
loved Norman, he bullied him around a
little at Bourke Street.
Norman made his name in charge of
the Adelaide store. When he had the
reins in Melbourne he was even more
bluntly aggressive than his uncle, but
he had something of the same genius.
Bourke Street boomed under him to-
wards its present massive size of 60
acres of shop space. Expansion went on
with the buying out of Morris Jacobs
at Geelong and Paterson Powell at Bal-
larat. Some aspects of the business in-
creased tenfold under his drive.
Norman had the passionate nature of
his uncle, and had a striking parallel
with him in marriage. Sidney, in his thir-
ties, fell in love with Merlyn Baillieu, a
member of one of Melbourne's oldest
families. She became his second wife in
1930.
In 1952 Norman, at 54, married for
the second time Pamela Sallman, 24,
and had a few happy years with her
before he died in 1956 as Sir Norman.
But even beside Norman and Lee
Neil, Sidney Myer remains an over-top-
ping giant as a merchant genius. Heaven
knows what the secret of his flair was,
but you might break it down into
parts. One was his combativeness and
ambition. He took on anyone and any-
thing, and fought to the death if need
be. Another was the directness of his
business vision. He knew that it was
no good to buy low and sell cheap
unless he could shift an enormous quan-
tity of stuff in rapid turnover. Every-
thing—from his credit sales to his fleet
of daily delivery vans—was part of the
machinery he devised so brilliantly for
this purpose.
Then there was his innate flair for
color and theatre —for drama, excite-
ment, suspense, and even —-perhaps un-
wittingly—for comedy. (Looking back,
what could have been clearer comedy
than his price-slashing antics, and the
rush for his bargain counters? It was
right out of Chaplin).
Best of all, there was Sidney's pro-
found, intuitive understanding of wo-
men their vanities and affections, their
little snobberies and desire for an ad-
vantage, their frequent credulity, their
need (in his time) for greater freedom.
He knew, or learned, the mild hysteria
women shoppers can suffer. Today, in
Bourke Street, while madam longingly
fingers a mink in the carpeted, chic fur
salon upstairs, the spruikers in the base-
ment’s red-blazoned “super daily bar-
gain areas” woo the less fortunate ladies
of the suburbs . . . “Now girls . . . this is
tremendous . . . like you, girls ... a
one-day bargain only . . . you couldn't
get cold in them, girls . . . super fleecy
walkers . . .”
And Myers gave us the first live man-
nequins, the first wall-to-wall carpets,
the teen-age craze; and has given us the
greatest commercialisations of Christ-
mas, Mother's Day, Father’s Day and
other Days in our history.
Now the men in charge carry on
with a will. Arnot Henry Tolley, No. 1
of the current World of Myer, follows
the example of the great Sidney in not
giving in “Who's Who in Australia”
either his age or birthplace. He is 67,
was born in England, and came to Aus-
tralia at five. His father became the
manager of the State coal mine at
Wonthaggi, then an important pit. He
was a Plymouth Brethren. Harry at-
tended Caulfield Church of England
Grammar School, and at 18 went off
to the First World War, where he fought
bravely, was wounded in France, and
became a sergeant.
After the war, he tried being an
orchardist for a while at Ringwood, out-
side Melbourne. He thought of becoming
a journalist, but the old “Argus” had
no opening for him. He applied for a
job at Myers, and at 26, in 1922, was
hired for the pay office, a department
that Lee Neil watched closely.
The young man, a clean-living fellow
with intelligence and ambition, impressed
Lee Neil with his clarity of thought and
his calmness under stress. Inside 12
years Harry Tolley was a director.
Under Lee Neil's guidance Tolley
learned how to handle difficult people
like Sidney, how to negotiate shrewdly
with Flinders Lane and other sources of
supply. He learned finance. And he
learned how to walk carefully but adroit-
ly towards any major decision. His mind
has been described as “flexible.”
Harry Tolley became an accountant,
and did a commerce degree at Melbourne
University. He has since been a fervent
supporter of staff training, and of higher
education for executives. He has written
two books, which he had printed and
circulated privately. One is about Italy.
Another is a selection of his diaries. He
likes music, particularly Mozart, and
goes horse-riding regularly. He lists his
recreations as "riding, writing, reading,
rambling, relaxing and ruminating.” He
married in 1928 a Miss Bonnie Kirkby,
and they have a son, who is in a Mel-
bourne stock-broker's office, and a
daughter, who married the son of a Mel-
bourne Herald sub-editor.
A tall, handsome man, who often
sports a bow tie, Harry Tolley looks,
in some of his photographs, like a bene-
volent uncle rising politely from his
chair to welcome unexpected young visi-
tors. He is highly regarded as a judge
of men. He has been quoted as saying
that he avoids men of small soul, narrow
vision, and with no uniqueness of spirit.
He likes his executives to be "big enough
to be men first, traders next”. Some
other quotes could include:
“Please do not think I am a brilliant
person in any way.”
“I regard myself as a man with an
oil can ...”
“We set out to earn fresh goodwill
every morning.”
Praise for staff
Tn his public statements, and in the an-
A nual reports of his companies, Tol-
ley likes to see generous, even lavish
praise for the work of the staff, with
thanks for their loyalty, and hopes for
their happiness. He believes deeply in
“comradeship.”
It was a typical Tolley touch in 1959
when Myers were in a tooth-and-nail
financial struggle w'ith Cox Bros (Aust)
Ltd to take over Allan and Stark. At
a personal level the Press saw it as a
battle between Tolley and the Cox Bros
chairman and managing director, Sir
Frank Richardson. Harry Tolley deplor-
ed the use of such nasty words as “clash”
or “counterbid.” The two bids, he ex-
plained, had been made independently,
each unaware of the other's interest. The
atmosphere was “traditionally friendly”
and was being accepted all round in


'■-42 W
vm
The art of bending over backwards
All Qantas people are trained to bend over backwards.
They do it easily, cheerfully, constantly.
It's a Qantas custom.
Air crew do it.
Engineers do it.
Reservation officials do it.
Line managers, branch and section managers do it.
Cooks and caterers backbend with the best.
So do ground crews.
And cargo consultants.
Qantas travel agents bend over backwards.
So do Qantas people overseas.
There’s nothing particularly new about it—•
fact is,
it’s been going on for 42 years.
And that, of course, is why Qantas is so good at it.
And why it’s so good for Qantas travellers.
It’s the sort of thing that makes
all the difference
between air travel and Qantas travel.
It means quite simply that Qantas people the world over
bend over backwards
to make certain your overseas trip
is exactly what you’d like it to be.
Unbending is something else that Qantas people
do with natural ease. It comes home to you in
the warm and friendly way things are done for you—
in the ‘now you’re our guest’ atmosphere that
greets you wherever you go. It’s fun
to go along with Qantas.
42 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in association with Air India, 8.0.A.C., S.A.A. and TEAL.
Q 22.105.43


“good humor.” Soon afterwards, Myers
-won.
Among the rank and file of Myers
Harry Tolley is nick-named “The Iron
Duke.”
Kenneth Myer, the logical successor
to Harry Tolley, has none of the “Who’s
Who” inhibitions of his top boss. Ken-
neth (“Mr. Ken” or “Mr. Kenneth” in
the store) is 42, a tall, lean, good-looking
man with wavy dark hair. He is the
elder son of Sidney and Merlyn Baillieu
Myer, born in San Francisco a year
after their romantic marriage in 1920.
He was educated at Geelong Church of
England Grammar School, and later went
back to the USA for studies at Prince-
ton.
He was'actually an American citizen
until he took out Australian naturalisa-
tion to serve in the Navy in the last
war. He served with great distinction in
anti-submarine work and won a com-
mission and the DSC.
In the tradition of his father and his
uncle, Norman, he joined Myers as a
salesman in the piecegoods, millinery
and other departments. He sang in the
Myer Choir.
But the young fellow had a future.
In 1947, to mark Kenneth’s entry into
the store, his mother gave a garden party
at her home, “Cranlana,” in Clendon
Road, Toorak, and invited 850 Myer
personnel, made up of management, exe-
cutives, and those with more than 20
years’ service.
The next year he became a director,
at the age of 27. He married Miss
Prudence Boyd that year, and they have
four sons and a daughter. His recrea-
tions are gardening, reading, tennis,
swimming, fishing and ski-ing.
“Modesty and tact”
Tn Melbourne, where the complexities of
A the Myer family-tree are still con-
fusing at times, Kenneth Myer is best
known for work apart from the busi-
ness. There is a solid nugget of truth
in the PR handout which says that he
is “noted for his modesty and tact, and
for his earnest practice of good citizen-
ship.”
He has interested himself in the City
Development Association, which Nor-
man founded, in the Sidney Myer Char-
ity Trust, the Myer Music Bowl, town
and country planning, the National Gal-
lery, the University, the coming new
art gallery and cultural centre. With
his younger brother, Baillieu, and with
friends like financier Sir lan Potter, he
has made considerable philanthropic and
educational gifts.
Good deeds socially have been a Myer
trait since Sidney’s more flamboyant
days. It was Sidney who paid out £20,000
of his own money for the building of the
Yarra Boulevard and other public works
in the depression days, and who, in the
same depressed and hungry era, gave
10,000 unemployed a Christmas dinner
at the Exhibition Building serving at
table himself.
Kenneth Myer has been strong for
a city underground and for moves to
improve roadways and parking. On
visits to America he saw, years ago, how
traffic congestion could kill shopping.
With Harry Tolley, he has had a big
role in Myer expansion, both in take-
over bids and in the development of
regional centres.
Among some observers in the Myer
higher echelons there has been criticism
of Kenneth Myer as a man who has
obtained too much personal publicity.
He has travelled in China and Russia.
On the ABC TV panel show “Any Ques-
tions” he once caused a stir with what
some die-hards considered over-friendly
views on Red China. But Norman fared
worse. He declared in August 1939 that
war was unlikely. And at one time he
spoke in mild admiration of Mussolini.
Sidney Baillieu Myer, Kenneth’s
younger brother, is 36 and darkly hand-
some, with a fuller face than Ken and
an efficiently smooth, diplomatic man-
ner. At Geelong Grammar he was called
“Baills” Myer, and girls are said to have
swooned over his charming lisp. He
joined the RAN for the war and was at
Tokyo for the surrender. He went to
Melbourne University and Cambridge,
where he stroked for Pembroke College.
He worked with Harrods in London
and with Macy’s in New York.
Baillieu joined Bourke Street in 1949
and was made director in 1955. He be-
gan as a fashions and materials expert,
and is now director in charge of overall
merchandising, the big name on the
buying side.
Through Baillieu, Myers are linked in
marriage with the Hordern interests in
Sydney. In December, 1955, at St
Mark’s Church, Darling Point, he mar-
ried Sarah Hordern, then 20, daughter of
Mr and Mrs Samuel Hordern. Sarah,
who finished her education in Switzer-
land, is connected with the Baillieu fam-
ily through a grandmother.
Recent great progress has obliged the
Myer group to re-shape its structure of
command. This is kept flexible, and
as recently as March this year a new
order was announced to come into effect
in a few months. The Myer Emporium
Ltd becomes a holding company for the
group, divorced from direct trading. It
will oversee all Myer operations at home
and abroad. This holding company will
be under a Group Board, a kind of
national board, with A. H. Tolley as
chairman, just as he is chairman of
other boards. Ken Myer will continue
to be his lieutenant.
The Melbourne store —jewel of the
Myer crown—comes under a new trading
company, Myer (Melbourne) Ltd. Be-
sides Tolley and Myer there are nine
other full directors and 15 associate
directors —continuing the Big Board
policy that Norman Myer introduced.
With the reorganisation, all Victorian
stores and Hobart come under the wing
of the Melbourne store. The Western
Stores chain is directly responsible to
the Group Board. Other boards continue
“their present legal and trading identities
. . . except for some internal grouping
for operational purposes.”
Busy directors
Group Board will not only direct
A policy and tactics. It will ensure that
the buying of supplies is co-ordinated;
the buying of talent, too. But clearly
the group is committed to a shrewd dele-
gation of responsibilities, while keeping
the seat of power where it has always
been —on the 7th floor, Lonsdale Street
Building, Melbourne.
Part of the secret of Myer administra-
tion is the clear pecking order establish-
ed, from Harry Tolley down to the new
arrivals and the Christmas temporaries.
In Melbourne each of the directors
has an active role. No one just drifts
in for a grog and a chat on board day.
Each of the associate directors is also
an active executive—in charge of some
service or line of goods, such as heavy
hardware, electrical goods, or men’s
wear.
Next come the sectional controllers,
each looking after a group of depart-
ments. Under them are the group man-
agers, as overlords to the departmental
managers, who buy stock for their own
departments—a dicey and often care-
worn role. At the lower levels are the
general sales and administrative per-
sonnel.
Myers like directors to be in the tradi-
tion of Sidney and Norman; men who can
tie a parcel, drive a lift, sell a pound
of chow mein or show any anxious shop-
ping mother to the nearest lavatory for
the children. (“Children of today are
the main customers of tomorrow”, a
slogan runs.)
Harry Tolley, along with other leaders
spends his due measure of time “out
front” on the shopping floor. This has
the effect of keeping directors and exe-
cutives alert to current public habits, as
well as keeping executives and staff
on their toes.
But while a slight air of humbug


CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using “ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-water systems,
and household requirements. Easy to install. Inexpensive
to operate and will last a lifetime. Large quantities in
use throughout Australasia. Other types for different
conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today V 1
GUTHRIDGE PTY; LTD,
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
Agents and Manufacturers of “Everlasting” Boiler Blow
off Valves, “Curvilinear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines, Ellison Switch Gear, Blasting Mat*, Explosives,
Log Splitting Guns, etc.
might be discerned at times in the con-
tinuous use of the “one happy family”
concept, the Myer staff relationship is
a strong one, and a key one in the
success of the business. Sidney Myer
treated his employees as people—even if
he sacked some —at a time when most
other stores treated them like coolies.
Norman carried the idea on, and the
tradition continues.
While the staff is taught to regard
all customers as “guests” (it is unwise
for any customer to take this literally)
outright servility has gone. The store has
given away Sidney’s famous slogan “the
customer is always right,” and taken
refuge in the generality of “for value
and friendly service.”
Staffers are required to be modestly
dressed. At one time men could wear
only dark clothing, but these days plain
grey is allowed (nothing too sportive).
Hints to women staffers include the
advice that hair should be well-brushed
and regularly shampooed, with no ex-
treme hair styles. Hands should be “well
kept, with no stains from smoking. If
nail lacquer is used it should be fault-
lessly applied.”
The store has university graduates in
charge of its training school —where at
any one time about 1000 people, many
of them executives, might be under in-
struction. While present and future lead-
ers are getting their indoctrination in
Positive Mental Attitude, even beginners
get their drill in sure-fire Dale Carnegie-
type sales psychology. It’s not done for
a Myer salesgirl these days to approach
the customer with that ancient question:
“May I help you?”. This drives the
customers away, Myer staff are told, by
making the aforesaid customers “feel
guilty that they aren’t buying.” The
staffer is told to “make the relationship
a personal one.” The idea is to use the
customer’s name, if it is known, and to
point out items of special -interest. But
no positive statements, please, or ex-
pression of opinion . . . “You do not
divert the customer’s attention from the
merchandise to yourself.”
Such psychological aids to sales are
aided by many practical techniques.
Certain counters are spotlighted subtly.
Displays are changed about so that
customers don’t get fixed buying habits.
High profit goods are next to genuine
bargains. And so on.
Staff may buy at a discount and on
credit, see the house doctor, optician,
dentist, or posture clinic, eat cheaply,
have time off for their training, enjoy
sports clubs, Christian fellowship, the
choir, cultural activities, home-making
classes . . . and take a holiday at Norman
Lodge, the Myer holiday home on 270
acres at Mt Eliza, on the east shore of
the bay.
Retirement on half pay
/General staff retire on half pay at
65 for men and 60 for women. This
was arranged with an issue of a million
5/- shares at par to the staff pensions
fund. Often there are bonuses. For the
50th year commemorations of 1961,
for instance, 7000 of the staff shared
£lOO,OOO. The company recently made
an issue of 400,000 convertible unsecured
notes at £1 to executives. The notes
are to pay six per cent for five years,
and then to be convertible to 5/- shares.
A handsome profit.
Just where, and at what prices, the
Myer group buys the £lOO million-
odd’s worth of stuff it is selling each
year is naturally interesting for Aus-
tralian industry. For its fancy stuff, from
bees in chocolate to Dior, it has offices
or agents in London, Paris, Milan, Frank-
furt, New York, San Francisco, Osaka
and Tokio and sends about 80 buyers
abroad each year. Imported goods
account for 10 per cent of sales.
In the business arena Myers are known
as hard bargainers, who go full out for
an advantage. This attitude, of course,
is not theirs alone. But there was no
harder fighter for a cut price than Sid,
and this tradition has also been con-
tinuous. In the last credit squeeze, for
example, Myers kept sales and profits
up and prices down. If you believe what
you hear along Flinders Lane it achieved
this largely by forcing many suppliers
to cut prices so much that some of them
complain they nearly toppled back into
bankruptcy.
The group, of course, remains a con-
siderable manufacturer in its own right
—clothing, woollen goods, furniture,
gloves and some other products. Some
time ago it said its long-term policy was
to get out of direct manufacturing. It
already has arrangements with many
manufacturers to provide goods under
Myer labels, at competitive prices.
Back in 1942 Cal well, Rosevear and
others had a go at Myers in the House
of Representatives when the Labor Gov-
ernment announced that Myers would
not be prosecuted under the price control
regulations. The company had made on
certain lines gross profit margin in two
years of £250,000 in excess of the profit
margin before the war. An adjustment
was arranged.
The Bass Hill affair indicates some
Myer influence in NSW politics. As
Alderman C. H. Little, of Bankstown,
put it “Myers may have had terrific
foresight, possibly helped by consulta-
tion with people in higher ministerial
circles, than a local council would have
knowledge of.”
And when Ken Myer spoke at the
opening of the new Farmer’s £1 million
store at Gordon last November he put
in a word of praise for Premier Heffron.
In Victoria, Myers negotiated with
the Convent of the Good Shepherd for
its Chadstone area. The convent wanted
money for a new school.
But for its future Preston development
it has obtained an option on
51 acres bought up years ago by the
Housing Commission for workers’ homes.
Then there is Angelo Lane, which
runs between the Elizabeth Street post-
office in Bourke Street, and the Myer
main store. Myers have apparently been
allowed to take it over, roof it and shut
it off, although the real owner is, in
fact, unknown.
In a different field, and on a smaller
scale, some people wondered how it
was that Myers in Melbourne got the
agency for all tickets for the Olympic
Games in 1956. The answer probably
is that they were the biggest and best
people to get rid of them.
Unto every one that hath shall be
given, and he shall have abundance: but
from him that hath not, shall be taken
away even that which he hath St.
Matthew.


■ ■mini
; ■
'
; v ■ i V:
■ :
BlGllfn
I HP -rrr?'tt'—'M
I gr* W? T~~ VII.
■
Iy? ft? 11 n
: '
mi
Vv ' -i
Ampol is Australian owned. Ampol profits go back to Australians
and into Australian development. This is spectacularly demon-
strated by Ampol’s decision to build the first major Australian-
owned petrol refinery near Brisbane at a cost of £2l million!
Ampol’s earnings are also helping to build Australia’s first lubricating
oil refinery . . . and furthering the search for oil.
Ampol is a ready sponsor of Australian interests in sport, education,
industry, art and science. You, too, can help build
a more prosperous Australian future by
always buying Ampol products.
ASK YOUR AMPOL DEALER
ABOUT “THE AMPOL BOOK
OF AUSTRAL! AN A.”
STANDARD
BORON
o -a
(U)
AP/485
OWNED AND CONTROLLED BY AUSTRALIANS FOR AUSTRALIANS


OUT AND ABOUT
Rio Puts out more Flags
After the samba inflation and nationalisation
From ANTHONY PAUL
Carnaval has ended in Rio de
Janeiro. The flags and decorations
have come down from the trees
and lamp-posts along the Avenida Presi-
dente Vargas, the huge thoroughfare in
the heart of the city beside Guanabara
Bay. The decorations were elaborate this
year huge structures of wood and
brightly colored plastic that flashed by
day and lit up at night in pastel splashes
of red and orange, yellow, green and
blue.
Rio is the capital of Guanabara state,
and the State Government Ministry of
Tourism paid about £55,000 for those
festive drapes that have now been
dismantled and stored in dusty heaps for
next year’s gaiety. The total spent on the
six-hour samba parade along the Avenida
Presidente Vargas, for costumes, decora-
tions and floats alone, was about
£250,000. And this is only one event
of the five days of magnificent foolish-
ness that makes this probably the world’s
most extraordinary folk festival.
Go down on the Avenida during the
samba parade and you get some idea
of the reason for it all. A Brazilian
newspaperman explained it in this way:
“You might ask why this kind of
money is spent on a single parade in a
country as poor as Brazil. It is precisely
because they have nothing, that the
cariocas spend so much of their time and
money on this event. For the hill people
of Rio, this is their one big day of the
whole year. After Carnaval they go back
to the caves and shanty towns of the
morros. They forget the city. The city
tries not to think of them.
“They go back to the squalor and
disease and near-starvation existence for
the next 360 days. Their condition is not
pretty, but it is never so ugly that the
carioca cannot find the odd cruzeiro to
save for his Carnaval dress. His whole
life is directed towards a proper pre-
paration for this one day. It is his annual
moment of happiness, and with this he
is and has to be content.”
But that was in February, and now the
party’s over. Even the most obstinate Rio
gay blades have long since settled down
to contemplate the realities. These are
inescapable: The reality of ever-spiralling
inflation, the reality of economic chaos
only months away if some sound counter-
measures are not taken, and above all the
reality of political and social disorder if
the worst comes to the economic worst.
Brazilian hopes were raised, at least
temporarily, in March with a successful
appeal to the United States by Finance
Minister Francisco Clementino San
Thiago Dantas. He brought home a
promise of continued US aid to Brazil
and an agreement to extend the period
of international loan repayments. There
was a blaring note of caution in the US
aid programme. Unlike past lump-sum
handouts, future payments will be stag-
gered and made on condition that the
Government can show proof of curbs on
inflation.
His position strengthened by a refer-
endum vote which restored to him ad-
ministrative powers at least the equal of
a US president, Brazil’s President Joao
Goulart has begun the sticky political
task of tackling his country’s economic
problems.
Inflation in Brazil had almost reached
the point of absurdity. This and the eco-
nomic muddle of the nation showed in
many ways: In the 16 days and longer it
took for mail to leave the country be-
cause of postal workers’ apathy at not
having been paid for two months; in the
small lead coin which had to be bought
over the counter to make telephone calls
at prices which varied by the week; in a
printed list of charges handed to taxi pas-
sengers by drivers long since tired of
altering their meters.
The current estimate of the political
commentators is that Goulart is further
to the Left in his thinking than he has
appeared in these first 18 months of
his so-called “presidency by default”. An
indication of the way in which the Right
reacts to measures undertaken by the
President is the question of nationalisa-
tion of the telephone system in the south-
ernmost State of Rio Grande do Sul.
Here the majority of Conservatives did
not strongly oppose nationalisation of the
company, an International Telephone
and Telegraph subsidiary. Most Brazil-
ians feel that the telephones in their
country should work better than they
do, and were willing in this instance to
give the Government a chance to show
that a nationalised industry will do the
job better. The only big opposition
Goulart got from this move was from
the Left which argued that companies
should be expropriated in the Cuban way
without compensation. Goulart is
prepared to pay for them.
However, the President has now indi-
cated that his Government is going to
nationalise five oil refineries. Why? the
Conservatives are asking loudly. Here is
an industry which operates efficiently,
and there seems to them little justifica-
tion for Government control other than
satisfaction of the demands of a political
fashion.
The Government is depending on an
economic blueprint known as the Three-
Year Development Plan prepared by


LIQUEURS
r .
GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
r f r
cherry
The
perfect pair
for
perfect
entertaining
fCULO
IsgSsjl
ULOV
Vodka
VODKA
Senor Celso Furtado, the Minister with-
out Portfolio responsible for supply and
price policies. The two principal aims
of the plan are to slow down inflation,
and maintain the rate of growth of the
economy at about seven per cent a year.
To obtain the rate of growth envisaged, it
is estimated that it will be necessary to
attract investments of 3,000,000-million
cruzeiros, and arrange for further exten-
sion of the payment of long-term obli-
gations.
Brazil’s Conservatives are asking how
nationalisation of foreign-owned indus-
tries for little reason is going to help
encourage overseas capital investment in
the country.
The plan aims at reducing the rate of
inflation from about 50 per cent in 1962
to 30 per cent this year and to 10 per
cent in 1965. The comment is heard in
Brazilian business and financial circles
and from the diplomatic corps that this
estimate is more than a little optimistic
in view of the mushrooming balance of
payments deficit.
But to the crowds of cariocas who
surged through Rio during Carnaval with
a kind of smiling monotony on their
faces, the Three-Year Plan was the
furthest thing from their minds. Among
the 4,000 American tourists who wit-
nessed the spectacle, however, there were
surely many who might have paused in
their enjoyment to ponder the fact that
these cariocas belong to the class first
affected by economic depression.
Such a tourist watching the mob enjoy-
ing itself for the happy, early days of
1963 could not avoid an obvious and
immediate question: What if the next
few months remove from the masses
their excuse for revelry next time Carna-
val comes around? Will the red in their
eyes be more than a hangover, and the
samba become a march?
Click Goes the
Cash Register
You wouldn't recognise the old bush ballad
By CHARLES SRIBER
In American entertainment straggle-
haired guitar strummers giving out
with husky voiced versions of old
ballads are edging up to “pop” level.
Australian folk singing has not reached
this buoyant stage yet, but the record-
ing companies are very satisfied with LP
sales of local and overseas singers of
traditional songs. Restaurateurs are
looking to the folk singer as a draw
card. Three such places are doing
business in Melbourne and at least one
wine-and-dine place in Sydney advertises:
“Entertainment by a folk singer.” Both
radio and TV are cautiously stepping
up their proportion of folk-song output
and one ex-drover/shearer/jackaroo is
compere of an hour-long major channel
show.
Australia has had its own songs since
convicts brought them from London,
Ireland and the English countryside,
adapting them to local conditions as a
grim commentary on their lot. The pre-
war recordings of baritone Peter Dawson
included some very popular bush songs.
The fossickers, bullockies and drovers
all developed their own particular style
of songs.
Recognition of Australia’s song herit-
age as a lively art can probably be dated
to production of an Australian musical
called “Reedy River,” written by Dick
Diamond in Melbourne, and staged by
the left-wing New Theatre, first in Mel-
bourne and later in Sydney.
It had little more than a sketchy story
set in the outback to string along lusty
outback songs. “Click Go the Shears,”
“The Banks of the Condamine” and “My
Old Black Billy” were a few of the
numbers rendered to accompaniment of
the Bushwhackers’ Band. This group
comprised bush bass, lagerphone, ac-
cordion, guitar, mouth organ, bones and
tin whistle. Their moleskins were as
phony as their moustaches and cabbage-
tree hats, but their enthusiasm was
undeniable.
When “Reedy River” finally folded,
the Bushwhackers set up their own
organisation, the Bush Music Club.
Founded in the summer of 1956, the
club produced its own publication, “Sing-
about,” and organised social functions
which were inevitably called Singabout
Nights. Around the same time our
ethnologists began probing into the links
between cultural manifestations and
social customs and dipped into the fount
of country songs, poems and epics.
These fossickers after the country culture
were inevitably successful. Never before
had the city shown the slightest interest
in them, so when these earnest and
pleasant people arrived in the outback
towns and stations with notebooks and
tape recorders, the locals were flattered
and happy to co-operate.
Nor was it only from the country that
folk songs were to be garnered. Many
outback identities were quite happy in
their old age to taste some city com-
forts. In the Sydney suburb of Auburn
“Hoopiron” Jack Lee was discovered.
Blind then, Jack was an ex-bullocky with
a mine of songs, not all of them print-
able. Frank Legg of the ABC was only
one of the enthusiasts who brought a
spark of interest into Jack’s last years by
recording his songs and replaying them.
One of the indefatigable collectors is
bearded, balding Peter Hamilton, pro-
prietor of Wattle Recordings, Sydney.
While Wattle is a small outfit, operating


from the second floor of a Paddington
terrace house, it claims to have outsold
some of the bigger companies.
“ ‘The Drover’s Dream’ is an example,”
Mr Hamilton told me in his bare studio-
cum-office, “we did it first in 1955 on
a 78 and later transferred it to a 45. So
far we have sold more than 20,000 discs.
Of course, if we could ever get our
numbers on the hit parade we’d outsell
them all. Radio publicity is a big thing,
but we can’t break into that.”
Although head of a commercial
venture, Peter Hamilton gives no indica-
tion of sacrificing anything to popular
appeal. He makes trips into the field and
maintains that the stock of genuine folk
songs is almost unlimited. “We’ve hardly
scratched the surface,” he said, “but the
responsibility for pushing these songs
really rests with the ABC. They should
get behind the folk songs the way
national broadcasting companies in other
countries get behind their own national
songs.”
Wattle has produced an archives series
which Hamilton admits will have little
appeal to anyone other than the dedicated
collector. Recently the company has
recorded primitive music —an allied
field, he believes of New Guinea and
our own aboriginals.
Singer Johnny Ashcroft is convinced
Australians have never been more
conscious of Australian songs. Although
it should be noted that Mr Ashcroft is
very much a pop singer who has
featured such numbers as “They’re a
Weird Mob,” “Little Boy Lost” and “Big
River.”
Lionel Long is a folk singer who
began life as a jackaroo and went on
to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College.
There he established a trio and began
making public appearances that earned
him regular spots on TV and radio.
Today, Long has his own weekly TV
show, “Music Time,” and has made two
successful LPs. The first, “Waltzing
Matilda,” has had phenomenal sales and
the second, “The Wild Colonial Boy,”
looks like matching it.
Lionel Long considers there is no
doubt that Australia is experiencing an
upsurge in folk singing. Nor, he assured
me, was there any danger of the supply
running short. But there was a lot in
presentation.
“I know I’m often accused of ‘going
commercial’,” he said, “but I’ve sat with
the shearers outside the sheds and heard
them sing to accompaniment of paper
and comb anything for a bit of back-
ground. Now that’s all right if you’re
right there. But I’d hate to hear some
of those voices on record. I play my own
guitar accompaniment and use celeste
backing with harmonising voices. I think
it’s justified as long as the songs maintain
their own character.”
Folk-song societies flourish in Queens-
land, under the general patronage of poet
John Manifold, and a new one opened
recently in South Australia. But the
greatest activity is probably in Victoria
where the Victorian Bush Music Club
and the Folk Lore Society of Victoria
combine to produce a journal known as
“The Gumsuckers’ Gazette.”
Backbone of the movement is the
Lumsden family, representing several
generations of folk singers. Some big
Victorian country homes are thrown
open for weekends of folk singing and
as many as 300 and 400 people come
along. The Reata Restaurant, Malvern,
and the Jolly Roger Restaurant, St Kilda,
both offer folk songs as entertainment.
When the doyen of American folk sing-
ing, Pete Segar, came to Melbourne last
year he filled the Town Hall.
When the ABC wanted to mark the
recent 175th anniversary of Australia’s
foundation it chose as part of the cele-
bration programme a session of Aus-
tralian songs sung and played by folk-
singing guitarist Stuart Finch. Finch,
an English-trained actor who graduated
from the Conti School in London,
migrated here with his family. For him
a tradition of guitar playing was inherited
from his father.
Stepping into Gobbi’s Shoes
Australian baritone reaches for the top
By MARGARET CLARKE
"1YT arvellous '” Shaw said of the
red-carpet reception he was given
at Sydney’s airport when he arrived
from London.
This welcome home, J gathered, was
almost more gratifying than the ap-
plause he had received at Covent Garden
a few nights previously.
John Shaw, born in Newcastle, NSW,
but now principal baritone at the Royal
Opera House, Covent Garden, is here
to make a four months’ concert tour for
the ABC visiting all States.
Five years ago he went to London,
with his wife Patricia, to seek his for-
tune; and he found it.
In those five years he has changed;
acquired an air of authority, of sobriety,
had even grown a little heavier; indeed,
he had so much the look of a “helden-
bariton” that I wondered was he work-
ing up to Wagner. It wouldn’t have sur-
prised me had he spoken with a German
accent. He didn’t, of course, or even
an English one; in his speech and manner
he was still Australian.
I asked him about Wagner; yes, he
had just begun to realise this long-time
ambition, in the role of Telramund in
Lohengrin under Klemperer at Covent
Garden. In fact, it was his interpretation
of this (for a German opera), light
baritone role that won him an invitation
to Bayreuth next season.
Unfortunately, the invitation to Ger-
many clashes with another he is equally
anxious to accept: to go to Buenos Aires
to sing in Tosca and Macbeth. But the
offer of the Wagnerian crown cannot
lightly be refused; he confessed his dilem-
ma, then hastened to dissect his success
with Telramund in case he should seem
complacent. “What you need for it,” he
pointed out, “is a large high voice, and
the German ‘heldenbariton’ is so often
a bass-baritone and wobbles on the top
notes.”
He got to talking about Joan Suther-
land and Maria Callas, with both of
whom he has sung. Callas he had found
quite charming; he had not experienced
any of her legendary displays of fire-
works. Joan Sutherland’s voice he de-
scribed as “quite incredible”. After going
into some details about her technical
accomplishments he gave a rueful laugh.
“It was at the end of the library scene
in ‘Lucia’,” he said. “Now, my voice
is about twice as big as it was when
I left Australia, but when I opened up
in the duet with Joan —well, my wife
said to me afterwards: ‘I just couldn’t
hear you’.”
He had more offers than he can accept
but he has not sung Mozart in Europe.
His reputation is fixed in the “heavy”
Italian roles, and when he was invited
to the Vienna State Opera last year it
was to sing Tonio in “Pagliacci”. He
has more than 40 famous baritone roles
in his repertoire. Shortly he will add to
it one he has longed to sing since he
was a boy, that of “Simon Boccanegra”.
He said Tito Gobbi had invited him to
stay with him in Rome to coach him
in the role, which is difficult both voc-
ally and psychologically. “Gobbi seems
to have taken a fancy to me,” he said
diffidently, as if brushing off the ques-
tion had Gobbi selected him as his heir.
(It is generally agreed that Gobbi’s great
days are over.) Shaw the actor was
obviously relishing the prospect of sing-
ing this magnificent role under Gobbi’s
guidance; and in the meantime he will
give it a warm-up on ABC television.
A telerecording is to be made of the
opera in Melbourne.


IT STARTED ON THE NILE
a a s
Copper
tube used
5,400 years
ago to convey
water to the Pyramid
of Cheops, Pharoah of
Egypt, is still in good
condition. Since those days,
man has used many metals to
carry liquids •—• but sound
A economics still favours copper, with
incomparable qualities of corrosion-
resistance, ease of working and absolute
permanence. Crane-Enfield’s new tube mill at
Penrith has been built to meet the increasing
demand for copper tube . . . for hot and cold water
services, drainage and sanitation systems, gas pipes,
air conditioning and refrigeration. Whatever your
requirements in copper in tube, sheet or circles you
will find Crane’s a consistently reliable source of supply.
iss«l
m IP
SOT
••
.
ALUMINIUM • BRASS • COPPER
CRANE
GROUP
CPIS


OVERSEAS
Driving the Aggressor
From the Sacred Soil
India: Ornaments for armaments
By PETER SAMUEL
(A Melbourne student just returned from India)
Menus in cafes are rarely objects of
great political significance. But
they are now in India. Cafes
which describe themselves as ‘Chinese’
have almost completely disappeared from
India.
One of my most treasured souvenirs
from a three months stay in India is
a cafe menu I pinched in Bangalore.
It lists many Chinese dishes, “By Hong
Kong specialists”, but the cover simply
displays the word ‘Restaurant’. The
adjective ‘Chinese’ cap only be seen
through a piece of white paper which
was pasted on quite recently. Outside the
‘Restaurant’ the neon sign had been
shortened in sympathy. Probably a few
furious blows with a hammer did the
job.
Little incidents like this illustrate how
deeply Indians feel about the Chinese
invasion of October and November, 1962.
Indeed it would be difficult to exagger-
ate the impact it has had on the people.
As a foreigner moves around and
lives in India it is impossible for him not
to be constantly aware of the Invasion
and the National Emergency which was
proclaimed as a result.
The Emergency assaults all the senses.
Colorful if rather old fashioned placards
abound. A serious Jawaharlal Nehru
asks the onlooker to help “drive the
aggressor from our sacred soil”. He asks
the people to “Increase Production”, to
“Strive and Thrive”, to contribute to
the National Defence Fund, to “Give
and Live”, turn in Ornaments for Arma-
ments, Gold for Guns. The people are
warned to “Spread no rumor, Hear no
rumor”.
Newspapers find space for instructions
to readers to “Back up the Jawans ”
(soldiers), and announcements that “Jai
Hind,” Victory, will be ours.
At the picture houses and these are
as thick on the ground of Indian cities
as pubs are in Brisbane stirring shorts
are shown. The teenage idols march
around in single file throwing clenched
fists in the air and shouting “It is the
time of our destiny”. They wave flags
from trucks and sing patriotic songs
with themes such as “We speak different
languages, we go to different temples, we
till different lands . . . but we are one.
Tell the enemy we are ready. We are
one.”
Then there is a documentary showing
enthusiastic people in towns and villages
giving Blood, Gold and Sweat, knitting
warm clothes for the Jawans in the
cold Himalayas. And others are doing
their bit, too, maintaining supply lines,
cutting red-tape in the offices and pro-
ducing more food.
On the walls in Bombay the white
painted slogans ‘Vote Menon’ are fad-
ing fast. In a “Vote for Victory” cam-
paign in Bombay city last December
the ballot boxes went out not to receive
ballot papers but rupee-notes to finance
the army which the ill-fated Defence
Minister Menon neglected.
Defence preparations are strongly in
evidence. In Delhi and Calcutta the
many ornate and Victorian public
gardens are dirtied by the offals of trench
digging. Zig-zagged air-raid trenches have
been dug in footpaths in some places.
Bright yellow signs on houses and shops
indicate that some sort of a Civil Defence
system is being attempted.
Every city has its recruiting area and
long lines of bare-chested men and
youths wait to be measured up and medi-
cally checked. The Army parades its
new vehicles.
The tourist, despite the placards call-
ing on people to “treat the foreign visi-
tor as a guest and a friend”, is regarded
very suspiciously when taking photo-
graphs even if they are photos of quite
insignificant irrigation weirs or govern-
ment “godowns”. One student got severely
reprimanded for attempting to photo-
graph one of the very common “No
Photography Here” signs.
Everyone in India can listen to Radio
Peking if they have access to a radio set,
but most listen to All India Radio from
Delhi. Most popular is a daily programme
“China and the Dragon”, a hot-blooded,
witty and competent exposure of Com-
munist propaganda.
Is this awareness of the danger stirred
up by the Government or have the Indian
people demanded that their Government
take a tough line? Of course the Govern-
ment have acted to inform and arouse
the people and to an extent the fervor
is “created”, but there can be no doubt
at all that most of the impetus has come
from the people. The awareness has a
grass-roots quality.
Conversation with the visitor concen-
trates on the National Emergency, even
to the exclusion of cricket. The visitor


• j nm'mmTtm® 5
EVERYTHING GOES . . .
StTT
■XPRBSS
GETS THERE ON TIME!
For further particulars phone:
Melbourne 68 0541 • Sydney 67 0533 • Adelaide 45 5337 • Canberra 4 6005
Brisbane 47 1481 • Perth 24 4926 • Tasmania-Devonport 2 2659
is told the story of the invasion again and
again and is continually being asked the
attitude of his country, and what he is
doing.
This awareness seems to go to ex-
tremes in some directions. The propa-
ganda for the war-effort is so intense
and very often so jingoistic as to
make clear thought difficult. Under-
standable hatred of the Chinese becomes
racialistic rather than political.
But a war can seldom be carried on
in an atmosphere of calm detachment
—certainly not in a land of illiteracy and
ignorance. A little rationalism must be
sacrificed for enthusiasm. And the
strength of feeling against China is
tremendous. Everyone without exception
speaks in the bitterest terms of the
treacherous Chinese, their stab-in-the-
back and their brutal oppression. They
express very serious determination to
free the sacred soils of India of the
invader.
The Motherland’s Honor?
7Fhe use ol slogans extends beyond the
A placards and into serious political dis-
cussion. Unfortunately it is a frequent
feature of parliamentary debate. Many
Government members still wax eloquent
and almost religious about the policy
of “Non-Alignment,” without a mention
of what if anything that policy
might still mean. On the other side of
the House the Opposition speakers base
their condemnation of the Indian Gov-
ernment’s acceptance of the ‘Colombo’
proposals for negotiations on the argu-
ment that these “compromise the honor
of the motherland”. They argue for a
more aggressive response to the Chinese,
not because this might enable them to
recapture strategically important positions
and make future attack more difficult,
but because this would “win back for
India some of the respect she has lost in
the eyes of the world.”
The way in which anti-Chinese feeling
has been channelled is very instructive.
Much of the hatred has been directed so
that it is a hatred of the Chinese people
rather than a hatred of the Communist
regime which perpetrated the aggression.
Some is pure bigotry. My host in Banga-
lore continually used filthy language of
the Chinese and had me feeling I was
on the Australian goldfields of the last
century. When I challenged him, saying
that surely the trickery and imperialism
was not inherently Chinese but a pro-
duct of the Communist regime, he re-
sponded: “The Chinese are like lepers;
they can never be clean”.
Chinese-looking students Malayans,
Thais, Burmese and the Indians from
tribal areas with Mongol ancestry com-
plain of rudeness from people mistaking
them for Chinese. And bloodshed among
Calcutta’s two hundred thousand Chinese
community on the scale of the Hindu-
Muslim massacres of sixteen years ago
may only have been averted by the very
prompt local Chinese demonstrations in
support of the Indian Government. The
suspicions of the hot-tempered Bengalis
were probably allayed by the strenuous
efforts of the Chinese in collecting money
and ornaments for the National Defence
Fund.
There have been political reasons for
the efforts to channel hatred of the
enemy towards hatred of people instead
of hatred of the system. Apologists for
past policies have consciously tried to do
this. It suits Communist sympathisers
better that people should hate the enemy
as Chinese rather than as Communists
Many Indians still try to see the con-
flict with the Chinese as a conflict
quite unrelated to the Cold War.
Sometimes it seems that even Nehru
himself thinks this. In his speech to the
Lok Sabh on “India’s Resolve to Drive
out the Aggressor” (November 8) he said
of the invasion and its motives: “1 am
not going into the question, as some
people do, of Communism or anti-Com-
munism. I do not believe that that is a
major issue in this matter or any other.”
Yet it was Prime Minister Nehru who
said that India had been “living in an
artificial atmosphere of our own crea-
tion.” The invasion made India “realise
we were getting out of touch with the
modern world” (“limes of India,” Octo-
ber 26). It “marked the end of a chapter
in our national life and the beginning of
another” (“Times of India,” October 27).
Nehru’s greatest quality is probably his
ability to respond to public opinion, to
articulate public opinion and to voice
the feelings of the majority of the people.
He is seldom out of touch for long. In
this case he has reflected the deep shock —•
the confusion felt by the people. He said
on November 14: “Whatever the
future may bring, I do not think we
shall ever forget this powerful emotional
upheaval in which we have all shared.”
One commentator Kingsley Martin —•
who was in India at the time described
public feelings by saying that “psycho-
logically India was put through a
mangle”.
They feel fooled and duped.
The Chinese have made them look
silly by their effortless and rapid military
advances. India showed itself that it was
militarily and, more important, politically
unprepared.
They were militarily unprepared be-
cause they had been concentrating on
economic development and because the
small forces they had were deployed
against potential aggression from Pakis-
tan rather than from China. Also under
Menon many of the capable officers were
sacked or forced to resign.
But it was the political miscalculation
which hurt most.
For the invasion made Indian foreign
policy a failure. It dramatically brought
home the fact that the essential elements
of India’s foreign policy in the sixteen
years of freedom were wrong.
There has been a lot of confusion but
also a lot of healthy re-thinking. Social-
Democrats are getting a new hearing.
Jayaprakash Narayan, the founder of


m
mmm
»<:■■■
Wat Arun Temple of the Dawn, Bangkok Fly there reliably with KLM
Stop over in Bangkok (the fare is the same)
on your next trip with reliable KLM.
(Forget the clock while you're in Bangkok KLM has 9 flights weekly to all parts of the world)
KLM has been flying longer than any
other airline. Read more reasons for
flying KLM on your next trip to Europe.
They include KLM’s special services,
KLM reliability, KLM’s world-wide
experience and Bangkok, capital of
Thailand, city of rest and refreshment.
1. Bangkok leads every where KLM
flies everywhere. Thailand, with Bang-
kok International Airport, is the hub of
South East Asia. From Bangkok, KLM
flies to Japan, Manila, India, the Middle
East, Africa (N. S. E. and W.), North,
South and Central America, Western
and Eastern Europe and Australia.
(From Europe, KLM makes up to 7
flights daily across the North Atlantic.)
KLM’s DC-B’s leave Sydney at 11.30
a.m. Wednesdays, arriving Bangkok at
9.40 p.m. the same day. Bangkok, almost
halfway to Europe, is an ideal point to
break your journey for a few days or
more. But if you want to fly straight to
Europe KLM will get you there reliably
on Thursday.
2. Exotic Bangkok is up-to-date.
Bangkok has 1,500 hotel rooms (prob-
ably more). All hotels are comfortable
and generally air-conditioned. Bangkok
also eats in style Western, European
or Eastern. Authentic Thai dishes
shouldn’t be missed, beer is both local
and imported.
Elephants and progress march side by
side in Thailand, where the exotic
atmosphere is no bar to the comforts of
modern living. On the one hand: temples
and palaces, the floating market, Thai
dancing and boxing and the Royal State
Barges a sleek teak fleet, this. On the
other: theatres, racing, bowling, fishing,
water sports, and top Thai goods avail-
able at fair prices.
3. Use the KLM Budget Travel Plan.
This covers 55 cities throughout the
world, allows passengers two night’s air-
conditioned hotel accommodation in
Bangkok. Plus two half-day sightseeing
tours all for only £l2. With KLM
Budget Travel you can arrange and pay
for hotel accommodation before you set
off on your trip.
Another plus: KLM’s Multi-Stopover
Plan, which allows you to break your
journey for days or weeks at any or all
of over 30 cities, including Bangkok —■
all for the fare to London.
4. Reliability is a golden rule with
KLM. KLM carries over 3830 passengers
every day to 104 cities all over the world.
KLM has had longer than any other air-
line to perfect its reliability 44 years.
Every KLM DC-8 jet carries about two
hours more fuel than it needs enough
to fly an extra 1100 miles equivalent
to 26,460 lb. of paying freight.
The top half of a KLM plane is
painted white to reflect the sun's rays
and help keep the interior cool in tropi-
cal climates.
5. Your Travel Agent is a professional.
No one is better at planning trips than
he is. He can arrange your Bangkok
stopover to give you maximum advan-
tages. If your time is limited, he will see
that all your contacts are within close
radius of your hotel. He can even fit in a
temple visit (and Bangkok is not Bang-
kok without at least one temple).
Two of every three KLM passengers
are recommended to fly KLM by exper-
ienced Travel Agents. A nice vote of con-
fidence from people who know all about
travel.
Note: You can buy a KLM ticket for one-
tenth down, then take two years to pay
the rest. Mail coupon below.
See your Travel Agent, call KLM or mail coupon for free travel information.
KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIRLINES
A.W.A. BUILDING, 47 YORK STREET, SYDNEY. 29-3966
Please send copy of your KLM Budget Travel Plan and travel portfolio.
Mr./Mrs./Miss ——
My Travel Agent is.
X 5
r r >
klm:
P 256


* : ~3r
demand
Dalwood
M
m-
GUNDI
KITS LING -
People will approve, when you do
Penfolds historic Dalwood vineyards ara
situated in the famous Hunter Valley. Ask for
Dalwood Hermitage Claret, Dalwood Burgundy,
Dalwood Riesling Dalwood Chablis.
PW492
the Praja Socialist Party, commented that
“the mistakes that led to the present
tragedy were not due to (military) in-
competence, but to political myopia in-
duced by ideological prejudices . . . non-
alignment was not the culprit . . . but
the mental and emotional alignment that
went about in the garb of non-alignment.
It was that that produced myopia and
the double-standard; that prevented a
timely appraisal of Hungary; that made
us acquiesce in the rape of Tibet; that
went so far as to twice inhibit us from
taking a positive stand on the Violation of
human rights and genocide in Tibet by
the Chinese Communists.”
The Social-Democrats say that Indian
foreign policy has been a failure because
two of its main bases were destroyed by
the invasion. Indian foreign policy was
based on two myths. And the Chinese
invasion has at last demonstrated that
they were myths.
The myths were a belief in Afro-Asian
solidarity and belief in the Leninist
theory of Imperialism. The first was
partly a matter of racial prejudice in
reverse, partly anti-colonialism and
mainly wishful thinking.
The second myth was that Communist
powers are peace-loving and that all war
is due to Capitalism: it led Indians to
condone Communist atrocities and op-
pression.
Sibnarayan Ray, editor of the Cal-
cutta “Radical Humanist’" wrote in Quest
(No. 36, p. 41 ): “India's unpreparedness
is due to her systematic refusal to con-
front the Chinese reality. That refusal
in its turn was primarily inspired by the
double illusion of Asian solidarity and
Communist pacifism.”
The P.S.P. Swatantra and Jan Sangh.
the parties which have been calling for a
reappraisal of Indian foreign policy for
several years, have only about 10 p.c.
of the seats in the central parliament.
But their influence is much greater for
it extends to about half of the Press and
into the Congress Party itself. The most
striking indication of this influence was
the removal of Krishna Menon from the
Defence Ministry and then from Cabinet.
Menon’s followers are now reduced to a
hard core inside Congress. The Com-
munist Party of India is in a state of
turmoil, and the Chinese invasion was
the biggest setback since it was ordered
to abandon the Nationalist cause in 1942
and co-operate with the British.
Communists I met in Calcutta were
confused and shocked. Some could not
understand how a ‘socialist’ country
could turn to aggression, and they sup-
ported the leadership of the Party which
had condemned the Chinese. Several said
that the organisation of the party was
breaking down and branch meetings were
not being held. Others argued that the
invasion had been vastly exaggerated and
misrepresented by the Press. It was
merely a border dispute, and the leader-
ship had been led astray. These latter
form the pro-Peking faction which still
predominates over the Moscow-aligned
members in Bengal. In December the
leaders of the CPI attempted to address
Party meetings in Calcutta but were pre-
vented from doing so by local pro-
Moscow groups.
But the leadership of the party seems
to have taken the one course open to
it in order to survive. Their policy is
to divert hatred of the invader from
political into racial channels; to attack
the West and Western aid at every op-
portunity and to swing themselves behind
those members of Congress who have
not quite woken up.
Anti-communism is still very unfash-
ionable in establishment circles in India.
The best people subscribe to both Life
magazine and its equivalent, Soviet Land.
They are grateful to "our friends the
United States and Russia for support in
our time of need.”


FORUM
The New Negroes
An age of violence, killings and riots?
By SONDRA SILVERMAN
A NEGRO leader has threatened : “We are going to remove the cancer,
segregation. It is too harmfid. We mast be firm, courageous, even
brutal if need be. This evil requires operation. Consequently in order to
achieve our citizenship rights we must deliberately violate every law
which is intended to prevent us from becoming first-class citizens These
words highlight a transformation in the thinking of Negro leadership from
emphasis on legalism as a weapon of social change to emphasis on direct
action tactics and protest movements.
The Negro looked around in the late
’sos and saw the token integration
in which the Supreme Court’s 1954 de-
segregation decision had resulted; he
saw black states emerging in Africa and
heard James Baldwin say, “At the rate
things are going, all of Africa will be
free before we can get a lousy cup of
coffee", he realised that the differential
between what he could personally ach-
ieve and what the society would allow
him to achieve was great. He had lost
faith in the whites to abide by the letter
and the spirit of the court decisions
abolishing racial inequalities and he be-
gan to try new techniques and map out
new strategies. He resorted to mass, di-
rect action and in doing so revealed his
distaste for the courts, for the Congress,
for the executive, and for the Negro and
white organisations that had been cham-
pioning his cause until that time.
If social change was to be initiated, he
reasoned, governmental institutions would
have to be prodded into doing the job;
these efforts of change have increased the
outbreak of racial incidents since the
whites will not willingly surrender their
dominant status over the Negro, and I
suggest that as the Negro strikes out for
better conditions in life we will see
ushered in a new age of violence, killings,
and riots.
The change to direct action was first
significantly demonstrated in the Mont-
gomery bus boycotts in 1955. A Negress
refused to vacate her seat to a white man
and was arrested by the police; an out-
raged Negro community, led by a group
of clergymen, refused to ride the Mont-
gomery buses until segregated seating
was ended. The leaders were gaoled on
various charges but still the protests con-
tinued; acts of violence and terror were
directed against the Negroes by white
gangs, but the Negroes did not retaliate
in kind. Finally, the issue went before a
series of Federal Courts which decided
against the bus companies. The move-
ment had by this time spread to other
Southern cities and met with comparable
success.
The boycott was important if for no
other reason than its bringing of Martin
Luther King, a Gandhi- and Thoreau-
inspired Baptist minister, into the fore-
front of the movement for civil rights.
A disciple of non-violence, King has given
the Negro fight a peculiar character of its
own and has helped to enlist the support
of many whites because of the means he
has adopted. As head of the Southern
Christian Leadership Conference, he has
spearheaded the role of the Negro Church
in pressing for voter registration, non-vio-
lent action, student liaison and citizen-
ship training; he has also been instru-
mental in reducing the role of the
NAACP (National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People) by sup-
porting mass demonstrations of civil dis-
obedience rather than depending upon
legalism; he has dramatised the Negro’s
cause by preferring gaol to bail and by
arousing the sympathies of persons out-
side the Negro community.
The success of direct mass action in
Montgomery revealed not only certain
weaknesses in the NAACP policies but
also the possibility of transferring action
away from school desegregation and
towards other areas of imbalance: areas
which involved more persons and which
yielded quicker results. In 1960 young
Negro students, dissatisfied with the slow-
ness of desegregation proceeding through
the courts, dramatically and spontane-
ously launched a civil rights campaign of
their own, but one that was soon picked
up by other young groups throughout the
country, becoming the largest civil rights
campaign in American history. As their
battlefront they chose lunch-counters in
Southern variety and chain stores and,
with the adoption of a policy of non-
violence, they “sat down” in sections re-
served for whites and asked to be served;
stores practising segregation were pick-
eted, too. Unfortunately, hundreds of
students were arrested and convicted of
either trespassing on private property or
causing a threat to the peace. Legal
appeals were made, but in many in-
stances the students peacefully served
their prison sentences.
In school desegregation, a vital weapon
turned out to be parental desires and
demands that the schools be kept open
at all cost; initial protests were made
against integration, but rather than pay
the price of keeping their own children
away from the newly-integrated schools,
parents, after a short period of time,
forced the reopening of schools closed
by the states. In the “sit-downs”, rather
than lose business and invite any kind of
violence or disharmony, lunch-counters
and eating-places in various parts of the
South started to serve everybody regard-
less of color.
The Organisation called in to back the
protests was, once again, not the NAACP
but CORE (Congress of Racial Equal-
ity), which has persistently used non-
violent direct action as its technique. The
cases were handled by the courts, the
Supreme Court finding for the students
in October, 1961, but by that date eight
major Southern cities had already deseg-
regated eating facilities. The “sit-downs”


* A good coffee that
won’t keep you awake at night —that's
CAFFEIN-
FREE
COFFEE
Enjoy the delicious flavour of HAG coffee,
either instant, ground or beans. HAG coffee
does not upset your heart, nerves or digestion.
h m
decaffeina t *
w
V xnu i
GOOD COFFEE AND A GOOD NIGHT'S SLEEP
had several other important results: the
formation of SNICK (Student Non-
Violent Co-ordinating Committee) which
bears marked similarity to CORE and the
supplementing of the student protest
movements by Negro economic boycotts
in the cities involved which, because of
the organised purchasing power of the
Negroes, W'ere able to force conditions of
service upon white merchants.
CORE and SNICK next embarked
upon “freedom rides” to expose existing
segregation practices in defiance of Fed-
eral Court pronouncements to integrate.
Buses left Washington, DC, in May,
1961, carrying whites and Negroes en
route to New Orleans. Disputes in local
terminals where Negroes demanded to
use white facilities marked the journey,
which resulted in arrests for trespassing,
outbreaks of mob violence led by white
groups, and Court orders demanding that
integrated facilities be made operative;
this pattern continued in the subsequent
rides undertaken by the groups. Blood
was shed, hatred was stirred up, the
riders held to their credo of non-violence,
and interstate terminal segregation was
ended.
What characterises the present Negro
leadership is its belief in civil disobedi-
ence as a tactical weapon to force the
Government to change its policies or to
assist in the enforcement of pronounced
policy, while at the same time support-
ing, in a law-abiding manner, other
Government laws. In many instances, the
Negroes feel that they are breaking a
state law in order to obey some higher
law either a moral or religious one or
the Constitution itself. Direct action, they
contend, demands that laws be lived up
to and rights be guaranteed. They are
not against the use of negotiation and
litigation, but they are convinced that
these will be more effective and more
publicised when used in conjunction with
direct action. They want not only court
recognition but the white man’s recogni-
tion as well and if this means an increase
in racial tension it is a price they are
willing to pay. They want to strike at the
moral conscience of the whites, not at
their physical bodies, and they are pre-
pared to be hit at, insulted, and gaoled in
order to crack that state of mind.
There is one important group among
Negroes today that refuses to participate
in integrationist movements and which
stands for the establishment of a separate
Black Republic within the United States
proper: the Black Muslims. In 1960
their membership was a little under
100,000 out of a total Negro population
of almost nineteen million, and the
characteristics of that membership were
its youthfulness, predominantly male
enlistment, centre in urban areas, lower
class origins, and ex-Christian back-
ground. They view the Negro as an out-
sider superior to the whites for whom
special adjustments must be made in
law and custom. They profess hatred for
the white man, want complete withdrawal
from American society and their alterna-
tive name of Nation of Islam, complete
with their Islamic rituals, underlie their
non-participation in political affairs. They
are proud of their African heritage and
deny the assertions of sociologists and
anthropologists that the Negro's heritage
is that of the slave in America, not the
black man in Africa. If the movement
is still not taken too seriously, it is none
the less recognised as a next-of-kin to
the new protest movements Negroes
taking matters into their own hands. The
Black Muslims have succeeded in stirring
up race consciousness among Negroes and
in publicising the facts of life against
which the Negro has to operate. The
movement will become more of a threat
if the direct action of CORE and SNICK
and the legalism of the NAACP begin to
lose out to the Southern whites. And. if
the Negroes begin to feel that even these
groups are only winning battles of token
integration, then what?
in future years may prove to be
even more important than the protest
movements are the efforts of the Federal
Government, through the Commission on
Civil Rights and the Attorney-General’s
office, to guarantee the vote to the Negro.
In 1960 a Civil Rights Act was passed
which provided for a court-appointed
referee to assist Negroes to register and
vote if they have been discriminated
against; the Attorney-General was em-
powered to inspect election records and
to institute proceedings against persons
who, by threat or force, had attempted
to interfere with Federal Court orders on
integration. President Kennedy has based
his civil rights programme around the
issue of the vote and the Attorney-Gen-
eral has instituted action on behalf of
Negroes against state country registrars.
The Administration is also pressing for
Negro voter registration campaigns sup-
ported by the NAACP, CORE, SCLC,
and SNICK. In the South where Negroes
comprise 20 per cent to 45 per cent of
the population, their vote could be sig-
nificant in electing white leaders agree-
able to some form of civil rights action
and they could change the complexion
of the Congress itself. What remains to
be seen, however, is how active the Ken-
nedy's will be in the face of Southern
opposition.
The effectiveness to date of the Negro
protest movements illustrates not only
discontent but also the use of socio-
economic coercion as a successful pres-
sure group activity. The new symbols on
the race relations scene are not the sym-
bols of moderates but the symbols of
peaceful militants. There is no question
but that the Negro can cause trouble can
cause social dislocation, can create chaos;
the white man must give him what he
asks the extension of the American
Creed to all person alike —or pay the
price for not doing so. Need we be re-
minded of Baldwin’s words that “the
Negroes who rioted at the United Nations
are but a very small echo of the black
discontent abroad in the world”?


It used to take a trip abroad
to get Pantene. Now Europe’s
leading hair conditioner—Pantene
-—is here in Australia! The discovery
of a great Swiss Laboratory, Pantene
penetrates deeply to the hair roots,
supplying the pro-vitamin essential
for hair vitality. It acts directly on
the scalp, making the hair healthy,
supple and strong.
ts
Pantene, with or without
oil, at leading chemists
and the more exclusive
department stores. 19/0.
Amazing new
PANTENF
Vitamin Hair Tonic
SIP9/63
■,*/,' ' letters
TV. - — to the
THE KNATCHBULL MS
Sir,
In respect of the challenge of Mr
R. J. M. Newton, QC (Bulletin
4/5/63), the only person on whom there
is an onus to produce evidence bearing
on the authenticity of the Knatchbull
manuscript, as presented by Dr Rod-
Lucky traveller returns with the
secret of hair virility.
erick in his book which I recently re-
viewed, is Dr Roderick himself.
In the copyright notice in the front
of the book, quotation from the book
in any way whatsoever is forbidden,
“without the written permission of the
publishers and the author, in the latter
of whom all rights are vested.”
In the light of this, I naturally looked
for the listing of the manuscript which
forms the core and raison d’etre of the
volume in the bibliography, with verifica-
tion of the source from which that
manuscript apparently still copyright-
able 120 years after it was written
was obtained.
None of this information was forth-
coming, but plates 111, XIV and XVI
among the illustrations purported to
reproduce pages from the original in
facsimile. Plates XIV (p. 120) and XVI
(final page) were acceptable as being
reproductions of Knatchbull’s hand-
writing with which I was familiar from
official records, but Plate 111 of the
alleged first page of the manuscript
seemed to be another matter. Inter alia,
the writer of it employed different types
of lettering and different methods of
joining letters to those usually used by
Knatchbull. Furthermore, it seemed
strange that if Knatchbull wrote the page
he should have given the year of his birth
wrongly and married his father to a
sister of Sir Joseph Banks, whereas it
must have been a matter of ever-present
consciousness to all contemporary
Knatchbulls that she was one of the
puissant Hugessens, and an heiress at
that. Apart from this he stated the rank
of his grandfather wrongly.
In such circumstances Dr Roderick
cannot expect critics to be convinced
unreservedly without full information.
M. H. ELLIS
Cremorne (NSW).
HENRY MILLER
Sir,
I should like to enter a plea for Henry
Miller against the shallow scorn of Peter
Shrubb (“Not So Henry,” 27/4/63). It
is most unfair to dismiss Miller as a mere
pornographer and to condemn him for
the scabrous tastes of tourists in Paris.
The banned books of Henry Miller are
only a small fraction of Miller’s literary
output, as a glance at any bibliography
of his works will show. When Shrubb
dismisses these as “in between times
several books of essays and stories” he
is guilty of a very misleading meiosis;
for example, he omits entirely Miller’s
“Big Sur and the Oranges of Hiero-
nymus Bosch,” one of his longest and
most important works of critical auto-
biography, and freely available in
Australia.
Miller has many faults as a writer.
But Shrubb is quite off the mark in stat-
ing that he “is not really interested in
other people, except as instruments
through which satisfaction can be pro-
cured he is unable to say anything
much of interest about them they are
all shadowy figures, insubstantial, un-
fleshed, internal.” This is the last ac-
cusation to level against Miller. His
powers of description, of both people
and places, have been hailed by nearly all
critics, even those who otherwise belittle
his importance.
Finally, Shrubb’s conclusion “What
Miller has to 'Say in ‘Tropic of Cancer’
is not only extravagant and trivial, it is
also merely personal,” is surely jejune.
The charge of triviality may be justified,
but why the surprise and scorn for the
personal? What other tone does Shrubb
expect in an autobiographic writer?
Earlier, Shrubb has placed Miller in the
context of Shelley, Byron, de Sade, Monk
Lewis, Dostoevski, Rimbaud, Lawrence,
the Dadaists, Durrell, Kerouac. In all
these writers the personal is a vital factor.
Are they all to be condemned for this?
Mr Shrubb, with his unsuccessful
facetiousness and shallow judgments, has
done a great disservice to a writer who
was described on his election to the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences
in 1958 as “one of the richest and origi-
nal writers of our time.”
(DR) B. BALDWIN,
Lecturer in History,
University of New England.
Armidale (NSW).
Sir,
Peter Shrubb’s review (27/4/63) of
“Tropic of Cancer” was marked by a
tone of intellectual reproof which does
more credit to his conceit than to his
percipience, and amounts to a grave mis-
assessment of a modern literary master-
piece. In seeing Miller as “extravagant”,
“anarchic”, “trivial”, and “merely per-
sonal”, Mr Shrubb reveals not only a
profound misunderstanding of “Tropic
of Cancer” but also an obtuse failure to
grasp the book’s role in the gradual
evolution of a distinctively contemporary
literary tradition.
“Tropic of Cancer” must be read as a
poem composed o'f diverse personal and
scatological elements, and not as a novel
in the conventional sense. In style, it is
a lyric, albeit of a strange order, while
its effect is emetic rather than erotic.
The book derives its beauty from the
deeply personal nature of its communi-
cation, and if its weapons are often de-
clamation, hyperbole, and farce, that is
natural in a passionate statement of pro-
test against the cults of mediocrity and
restraint.
C. C. BAIN
Parramatta (NSW).


c&jex
i®'
J§®
t 5
' St
u
000
n isj
p- O' r ; fi 9 - l
L>' /- C- U O-L- i
Tradition and Quality
Seventy-six years’ experience in building the world’s
finest motor vehicles lies behind the timeless elegance
and extraordinary mechanical reliability of today’s
Mercedes-Senz. No other car offers such value in
prestige motoring, nor such sheer driving enjoyment.
MERCEDES-BENZ
MB Am film
Sir,
Some readers may have been puzzled
to see anecdotes in Henry Miller’s
“Tropic of Cancer” described as “dis-
creet”. This is, of course, a misprint for
“discrete”.
PETER SHRUBB
Wahroonga (NSW).
THE GAY NINETIES
Sir,
I thank Mr Slessor for his art-
icle on Kings Cross (20/4/63) I en-
joyed it very much. I can look further
back than the twenties, having had my
twenty-first birthday in 1898. Before the
First World War Sydney was a gorgeous
place for the young; there were dances
picnics, gipsy teas, as well as first-class
shows at the four or five “live” theatres.
Girls dressed daintily and modestly (with
no makeup) and the boys wore “boaters”.
The best seats at theatres were 55., and a
penny was of some value one could
buy a paper, make a telephone call, send
a letter and ride one section in tram or
bus. There were lots of meals to be had
at a modest cost at places where poultry
had flavor (it wasn’t frozen out). Mixed
bathing came in I was a pioneer at
Manly and Freshwater; we wore modest
but smart costumes.
At 85 I enjoy the modern luxuries and
labor-savers, but I do not think my
grandchildren have such a happy youth
as I had.
“DARLING POINT”
Sydney (NSW).
SENATOR CAVANAGH AND THE
PLASTERERS
Sir,
In reply to Mr Walsh’s letter,
(20/4/ 63) I would like to straighten out
some facts about Senator Cavanagh and
the Plasterers’ Society of SA.
In his letter Mr Walsh denies that the
management committee issued a circular
attacking Mr Arthur Robinson, who re-
signed as secretary because of criticism
from a section of the committee. Yet
after the committee had refused Mr
Robinson’s request to withdraw his resig-
nation, it issued a circular giving the
reasons for his resignation and the com-
mittee’s action. This amounted to an at-
tack on Mr Robinson, and could not be
interpreted otherwise.
Mr Walsh goes on to say that the
sequence of events at the meeting to
elect a new secretary was wrongly re-
ported, and makes the point that Mr
Marshall declared himself a Communist
late in the meeting. This is irrelevant, as
it was acknowledged long before the
meeting that Mr Marshall was a Com-
munist, and that ALP members would
be collaborating with a Communist by
supporting him.
Mr Walsh quotes Senator Cavanagh
as saying Mr Robinson handed over to
Mr Marshall, which is absurd, because
Mr Robinson was opposing Mr Marshall
for the secretaryship. Then Senator Cav-
anagh is quoted as saying there was no
alternative to Mr Marshall. In The
Bulletin article “Breaking The Rules?”
(16/3/63) it was stressed that “on ap-
pearances” Senator Cavanagh was sup-
porting Mr Marshall. Mr Walsh has sup-
plied proof. The alternative was Robin-
son, the ALP candidate. By Mr Walsh’s
admission, the Senator rejected Robinson
and supported Marshall.
It should be remembered, too, that it
was Senator Cavanagh who moved that
the committee’s action in refusing to
allow Robinson to withdraw his resigna-
tion be endorsed. The meeting rejected
the motion. At a further meeting the
union’s members re-elected Robinson.
However, when his organiser resigned,
the management committee elected Mar-
shall as temporary organiser over an
ALP candidate.
It is apparent that Senator Cavanagh
is letting personal convictions over-rule
his political affiliations. Mr Walsh’s re-
port of proceedings is an indictment of
this.
C. M. MILNE
Adelaide (SA).
ASSASSINATION AND MURDER
Sir,
Alan Reid’s article on radio censor-
ship (23/3/63) contained some ideas
about the unacceptability of assassina-
tion. I regret that I cannot agree with
his views. The main consideration should
be whose assassination is justifiable and
whose should be considered plain
murder.
Mr Reid took as an example the shoot-
ing of Prime Minister Sir Robert Menzies.
Nobody will maintain that Sir Robert
Menzies is anything like a tyrant, or
that his actions could not be checked by


law. If somebody disapproves of the
measures taken by Sir Robert Menzies,
he is free to criticise them openly and.
propagate voting for some other citizen,
whom he thinks more competent, at the
next election. The assassination of a
person like Sir Robert Menzies would
therefore be murder, and should be
punished accordingly.
Mr Reid, however, also dismisses the
idea of the assassination of a person like
Mr Khrushchev. But it is quite unimport-
ant if a man like Mr K. is the leader
of a “friendly” or “unfriendly” nation.
The thing to be considered is how far
Mr K. has unlimited power over life
and death of the population of a country
or even of mankind, how he has
threatened to use this power and has
made use of it so far.
How can a tyrant be distinguished
from the leading citizen of a democratic
country? The main characteristic of a
tyrant is his position, outside and above
the law. He is untouchable by the law
himself, but he is free to force laws on
his subjects and, by being free to use his
subjects for any of his purposes, rep-
resents a potential danger. Accepting
this status, he places himself outside
society, which means that there is no
longer any contract between him and
the rest of mankind.
Society therefore has the right to pro-
tect and defend itself against him by any
means, including his assassination, in the
same way as it would do against a wild
beast or any other force which can
inflict harm wantonly.
SCHOSCHANA ZUBE
Berrima (NSW).
EXMOUTH GULF
Sir,
Surely much of the opposition to the
Exmouth Gulf station is based on the
natural but dangerous assumption by
Australians that everybody thinks the
same way as we do and that others mean,
by their words exactly what those words
mean to us. Hence the Communist
screams for “Peace” and for a nuclear-
free Southern Hemisphere have been
echoed throughout the world by their
sympathisers and supporters.
These echoes would lose their ring if
John Citizen understood but two import-
ant facts. The first is that to Com-
munists everything is relative. Their
only standard by which to judge any ac-
tion is whether the result will benefit
or will hinder the spread of Communism.
The Communist attitude to World War
11, before and after the German invasion
of Russia, illustrates this statement. The
second is that to Communists words
mean only what Communists want them
to mean. Hence “Peace” to Communists
means victory in the class war.
Like some of your correspondents last
year, I have a limited time to worry.
Consequently I have my priorities. High
on the list is the possibility of world
conquest by Communism. About sixty-
fourth is the danger to Australia of co-
operating with powerful allies.
I remember that Lenin asked: “What
does it matter if three-quarters of the
world perish, so long as the remaining
quarter is Communist?"; that Khrushchev
said of the Western world: “We will
bury you”; and that Mao Tse-tung has
said: “Political power grows out of the
barrel of a gun.” These statements sug-
gest to me that a series of US communi-
cation stations, or even of military bases,
in Australia cannot increase our exposure
to Communist offensive.
A. W. HARTWIG
Brisbane (Queensland).
“MAKING BLACK WHITE”
Sir,
Intermarriage between aborigines and
whites will not breed black Australians
into white, as your leading article, “Mak-
ing Black White'" (13/4/63), suggests.
Folk do not marry for breeding, but be-
cause of a need for each other. In our
southern States colored people prefer to
marry among themselves; in Sydney there
is actually a fashion among girls to
marry a boy darker than themselves.
This racial consciousness Ineans that we
will have many coffee-dark Australians
for another century or so.
Social anthropologists are the strong-
est supporters of the suggestion that',
aborigines should be gathered as inte-
grated groups as a means of assimilation;
this is the opposite to dispersal of them
as individuals. One anthropologist has
said that aboriginal committees on re-
serves should run the group's lives and
affairs: Government interference should
then disappear.
JACK HORNER
(Hon. Secretary
Aboriginal-Australian Fellowship).
Sydney (NSW).
"SECOND-CLASS CITIZENS”
Sir,
I note with pleasure your correction
in The Bulletin (27/4/63), stating I
had never been to Moscow. This is
quite true—and I would add that I have
no desire to go there. But I should like
to have the privilege of making my own
explanation concerning the article which
appeared under the above heading on
April 13.
I am the only remaining official ALP
member of the Oakleigh Council, follow-
ing the expulsions referred to. I feel
that during the course of a fair hearing
I gave the ALP Central Executive the
facts. If it considered it was worth while
to retain my services as a loyal Labor
man, then that is to my credit. I can
see quite clearly that the information
given your correspondent in Melbourne
did exactly what was intended, i.e., use
other people under the pretext of a mis-
take to highlight the position of another,
who. in view of the explanation of Cr
Gilhooley, must be the nigger-in-the-
woodpile in the minds of many readers.
So, since the Peace Group has come
into the picture, he must automatically
be suspect. The untrue information that
I" had recently been to Moscow must
certainly have led readers to believe that
we were saved by a Left-wing executive,
which is plain bunkum.
In conclusion, I have no brief for
Communism. I am a good, solid, middle-
of-the-road Labor man. Provided I
obtain ALP endorsement I hope to prove
this by going to the people as a candidate
for State Parliament in the next year or
two.
DAVID M. OAKLEY
Clayton {Victoria).


.
V
ii
.
x
. ; ..
k
n
■ m
j
lfe§ v 3
I*
◄
9
*lf ~ - " v ', si. mm
V
i%d
■ ■
\
|
111
U
V
w
m
wj
■
->A¥gfc*
r aA
31 I
■
\ N
'Xli
Wi
\j
■ .
,
VyA,
HH
SS
&#?
• -
%
ALL THROUGH
THE
MODEM WM
mmmmmmmgaimmmimmmmmi
One oil space heater can
warm your home —at the
cost of warming a room!
No more chilly corners. No more roast-one-side-
freeze-the-other. Oil space heating is here to
give you luxurious warmth the modern way ... all
through your home, all through the winter. You’ll
be more comfortable you’ll pay less for it.
Oil space heating is ideal not only for homes
existing as well as new but offices, schools,
halls, swimming pools and all buildings requiring
ample heat at low maintenance and running cost.
HEATING
Easy Heat. No messy filling, or cleaning out.
Modern oil space heating looks after itself.
Clean Heat. No dust or ash to ruin paintwork and
fabrics. You save on cleaning and redecoration,
too with oil space heating.
Safe Heat. No open flame, no glowing elements,
no dangerous hot spots. A child can safely touch
the heater —fume free too.
And you’re never out of fuel. Your outside tank
is filled regularly by your Caltex Heating Oil
distributor. Your bills are monthly and small!
FREE 16 PAGE BOOKLET
Caltex Heating Oil Division,
Caltex Oil (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. (in Capital city of your State)
Please send me without obligation your free 16 page booklet
on Oil Space Heating. I am interested in heating: (tick as
appropriate) a New home Existing home Other buildings
NAME ....
ADDRESS
CA777


REVIEWS
MUSIC
A Confident Mackerras
Second Subscription Concert (Red
Season and Blue Season). Mel-
bourne Town Hall.
Lili Kraus was the drawcard
at this pair of concerts, the major
performances were given by the con-
ductor Charles Mackerras. The deli-
cacy of proportion which he gave to
the playing of the “Paris” Symphony of
Mozart, and to the central slow move-
ment most of all, established a confidence
in his taste and ability from the start.
To the eye he is not a markedly graceful
conductor. The beat is quite clear in
the right hand, and his action fluent;
but he seems to make comparatively little
independent use of the left arm, which
mimics the right and gives his whole
performance something like the unpro-
fessional air of an aficionado conducting
the gramophone.
But this is for the eye only, and the
ear hears another tale. One might have
quibbled with the gentleness of some of
the upbeat accents in the Mozart, but
the beautiful adjustment of string tone
in its andantino is not the sort of thing
which produces itself by accident, or
under the hand of a mediocre conductor.
Mackerras’s treatment of the two
major symphonies on these programmes
thoroughly confirmed that he is a con-
ductor of major talents. He gave the
Fifth Symphony of Shostakovich a per-
formance which was brightly colored,
compact, and firmly disciplined. Here
again he was at his best in the taut and
steely lyricism of the slow movement, a
trait which is quite uncommon in so
young a conductor; and his patient self-
control, his observance of that element
of detachment which is part of the
success of the most passionate perform-
ance, showed through in the care of his
approach to the intense climax of this
movement.
The choice of the Seventh Symphony
of Mahler for the second concert was,
in itself, something of a challenge. A
work never before played in Melbourne,
and seldom enough anywhere, a sym-
phony of huge dimensions by a disputed
and mistrusted composer—these are not
the kind of ingredients which a conduc-
tor puts together when he is chiefly
interested in making a popular success.
But Mackerras did not over-Calculate
his own strength, and his reading of
these five long movements gave us one
of the most interesting experiences we
have had in the concert hall for many
years. This is not music, I think, which
many people would find the substance
of a deep adventure of the spirit, but
it is consistently, at times excitingly, inter-
esting.
Of the two concertos played by Lili
Kraus, the more impressive was the
K. 271 of Mozart, where a slight way-
wardness did not spoil the lines of an
essentially true performance. In the A
minor Concerto of Schumann, music of
cardboard castles, tin soldiers, and flat
depthless surfaces, the waywardness
tended to flow over into pointless man-
nerism. Many of the signs of a per-
formance in the grand manner were
present, but they were not integrated
by a discretionary overall view of the
work.
KENNETH HINCE
THEATRE
Tasker’s “King Oedipus”
King Oedipus. Yeats-Sophocles. Union
Hall, Adelaide.
Tohn Tasker’s production of Yeats’
** “King Oedipus” for the Adelaide
University Theatre Guild was visually
stimulating but intellectually dull. Barry
Warren’s predominantly red or ruddy
set, with its descending platforms, high
gold panel, and white abstract Apollonic
monolith, had an appropriate grandeur,
and Desmond Digby’s costumes and
masks added to the general opulence.
But the glittering effect was initially tar-
nished by the entrance and first speech
of Mr Max Height who, as Oedipus,
lacked both the vocal strength and the
stature needed to give authenticity to his
imperial role, and then by the subse-
quent discovery that Iris Hart, who
played Jocasta, was perhaps the only
member of the cast who had any vocal
quality and control at all. This alone
doomed the play to be a pretty failure.
But the main criticism to be made,
however, concerns more Mr Tasker’s
conception of the tragedy, for had this
been less ambiguous he may have chosen
his cast more expertly.
Sophoclean tragedy is a highly elabor-
ate pagan liturgical ceremony. It is the
ritual debasement of King Oedipus that
we go to see, and it is through the ritual
that we perceive the reality of Oedipus’s
struggle with fate and the gods. If it were
other than this, the play would be, in
the old sense, absurd. Furthermore, being
post-Freud, we are in a position some-
what akin to the Athenians who, knowing
the myth as we now know the complex,
found “dramatic irony” one of their chief
enjoyments. Following from this, Oedi-
pus must be a figure totally commanding
in presence, with his gestures, move-
ments, and speech displaying an abso-
lute temporal power, for the gods rarely
chose men with common attributes to
love or hate, and in the subsidiary char-
acters, from Jocasta down, attitudes of
terror, grief, joy, and anger must be
rendered grandly and larger than life.
Mr Tasker, however, played it straight.
One received the impression that the
actors were “developing” or “realising”
their characters rather than endeavoring
to achieve anonymous hieratic character-
isations, and that the 20th century and
the Actors’ Studio twitched behind the
masks.
The production thus remained in a
kind of theatrical limbo, wavering be-
tween awkward naturalism and a barren
formalism, more the product of the text
itself than of informed and considered
direction. In general, movements were
static and lacked largeness and dramatic
importance; the Chorus was not syn-
chronous, voices were bad, and several
members of the cast should not have
been.
Mr Tasker is a far better producer
than King Oedipus would have led one
to believe. As an amateur production it
would have been very good, but since
Mr Tasker is a professional, though ad-
mittedly his cast was not, one must
expect of him professional standards.
PETER WARD


ABIT,
Shakespeare
observed, rules the
unreflecting herd. You
will agree that his words
are chosen, as usual,
with extraordinary care. For while the life of
every one of us is studded with habits good and bad,
it is the unreflecting who are ruled by them. You
who live a successful life reflect on your habits; you
know that even a habit which seems good may
prevent the doing of something better yet. So at least
you take it out and look at it.
So why not look at the habit of staying at the same
hotel on every Melbourne visit? Why not make a
switch and enjoy your first experience of Melbourne’s
newest and Australia’s most complete hotel, the
Southern Cross? Since all rates are strictly
comparable with other leading hotels and motels, it
will cost you no more than the effort of subjecting
yet another habit to reflection.
Shakespeare, that other enemy of unreflective habit,
would have approved the principle. We think
that you will approve the hotel.
IHC 32.44
Not In Church
Four One-Act Plays. Children’s
Theatre Guild of Victoria and
Union Theatre Repertory Company.
Russell Street Theatre, Melbourne.
/Ane-act play: The very phrase is like
a bell to recall one to the school-
room. It always seemed to me when I
was at school that there were “real”
plays which were long and interesting and
one-act plays which were neither. And,
sure enough, as soon as I left school, the
one-act play mercifully disappeared from
my life.
But the plays of the avant-garde
dramatists of today are mostly short, and
I now realise that it is not because they
were short that the one-act plays seemed
so dreary, but rather that there are a lot
of dreary one-act plays.
These four comprise: “End of the Be-
ginning,” a fairly slow farce about Irish
peasants by O’Casey; “The Man in the
Bowler Hat,” a cosy mock-melodrama
by A. A. Milne; and two serious plays.
“The Black Horse,” by Vance Palmer, is
an example of a full-scale problem drama
compressed into one act. It is set on a
cattle station in Western Australia. The
mother hates the life and wants her ado-
lescent son to become a professional man.
The father is as hard as iron and expects
his son to be the same. Because the
dramatist has only half an hour, the issues
are presented too crudely and the death
of the son comes as an assault on the
sensibilities.
In Saroyan’s “Hello Out There” a
j young man is also killed. The setting
’ is a gaol in a one-horse town in the depths
of Texas, and the chief characters are the
young prisoner and the girl who cleans
the gaol. The criminal and the servant
girl are transfigured into a village Romeo
and Juliet.
Because it presents a vision and not a
problem, this play is much closer to the
short plays of the avant-garde than
is the Palmer play, but as far as the actual
nature of Saroyan’s vision is concerned
nothing could be further from Ionesco
and Beckett.
One of the interesting things about see-
jing such a production is to observe the
i| reactions of an unsophisticated audience.
1 These plays are for children of 14 and 15,
I who attend during school hours. My audi-
'jence was very responsive, somewhat dis-
| concertingly so for the actors at times.
When they started making rather a lot of
noise during “Hello Out There,” I thought
this indicated disapproval. But it seemed,
from the applause at the end, that the
more they enjoyed the play, the more
j noise they made.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG


Judgment On Jury
The Sun in Servitude. C. R. Jury.
Queensland University English 111
Students. The Tree Theatre, Bris-
bane.
T don’t think the late Professor Jury
would have claimed that his play
was a fully polished piece of work, but
it can be amusing enough in parts when
played to an audience of academics and
students. There is sufficient wit and ob-
servation to make one wish he had done
something more with it. The structure
of a heavily contrived “dream” to frame
his fantasy of Apollo serving penance
in an Australian university is unwel-
come . . . and unnecessary. A little more
thought could have easily produced a
lot more wit and a lot less awkwardness.
For an outsider to university politics
and tensions like myself the passages
which generated the greatest urgency
were, curiously enough, those expound-
ing the rift between the sciences and the
humanities. The two opposing ideas were
presented as being pretty nigh-irreconcil-
able, or at least, the holders of such
ideas were. Perhaps this is so at a
university ... I wouldn’t know. But it did
make for some good moments on-stage.
Or should I say “on-grass.”
For the “stage” of this delightful Tree
Theatre at the Queensland University is
simply a plot of lawn, and the wings and
backdrop shrubs and trees. On a mild
Brisbane night of late autumn one could
be excused for relaxing one’s critical
faculties somewhat. Three or four play-
ers carried the movement, the others
kept thinking of their feet, or their
hands, or their words. It is not really
a play calculated to bring out any hidden
talent the university types are capable
of only so much illumination, and the
two Deities are too loaded down with
language. Iris, however, was done with
grace and wit. Poor Apollo would need
to look magnificent indeed to overcome
the piece of sheeting he was draped in
and would need to declaim like a very
god to surmount some of those set
speeches.
Well, it is a change in Australian
drama from canecutters and cups of tea
if hardly as sophisticated as it might have
been. Which in some ways is perhaps
a good thing.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT
ART
Fifty Figuratives
Georges Invitation Art Prize. Mel-
bourne.
/Competitions are always a worry. In
the Georges Prize any one of half a
dozen might be given the major prize,
but the rules say that one must be put
above the rest. In this case John Olsen
got the cash and Fred Williams the
consolation. Unfortunately, this meant
that the likes of Len French, Roger
Kemp and Jon Molvig had to be passed
over. For my part I disapprove wholly
of the principle of competition, in paint-
ing, in school, in anything where creative
intelligence is important. The only true
patron is the man who encourages what
he believes to be good.
Still, as things are, there is obviously
one enormous virtue in prize-giving:
someone does get a lot of money which
he deserves and which he probably would
not otherwise have got. Short of a revolu-
tion, we have to live with that fact. And
as prizes go the Georges one is the richest
in the country. Given its limitation to
“figurative” painting, it is undoubtedly
one of the most comprehensive selections
of Australian painting ever gathered.
Certainly there are weaknesses by the
time 50 painters are collected one is
pretty near the bottom of the barrel
but there is, too, an unusual number of
good paintings. Olsen’s “Tree of Life”
and Williams’s “Landscape” are hard to
separate. Both are splendid paintings,
Olsen’s bursting with abundant, rich life,
Williams’s affirming and acute, tranquil
craftsmanship, each in its way fully ade-
quate to its subject But here precisely
is the difficulty; can one or, more to the
point, need one, compare styles? Len
French’s “Moment of Darkness” is mag-
nificent, not perhaps on its own, but
certainly in its context in a series. It is
stronger in content, more imposing in
meaning and technique than the beauti-
fully lyric Molvig “Nude”, but the
Molvig is still beautiful, which to me is
enough. When the cup is full, why ask
for more?
The commendation prize for a young
painter went to John Aland of Brisbane.
I believe the South Yarra Gallery is to
have an exhibition of this very young
painter soon, and it promises to be
worthwhile. “The Garden”, which took
the prize, shows him as a delicate color-
ist and a very able composer, who at
least endows a theme with some poetic
imagination even if he cannot fully
realise its intellectual potential.
Unfortunately, one cannot elaborate
on all the excellences of a show of this
size. There are noteworthy paintings
from Blackman, Cassab, Grieve, Juniper,
Orban, Pugh, Senbergs and Sibley
—particularly the last—and a gem
of a drawing from Roger Kemp.
Surprisingly, there are very few problems
of definition. If you want to use that
meaninglessly elastic invention, “figura-
tive painting”, you will find that most fit
reasonably well. At the moment I can’t
see any point in setting up categories like
figurative and non-figurative because the
borderline is so vague that most good
painters happen to fall on it. Still, with-
in current definitions the Georges Prize
gives Melbourne the best bird’s-eye view
we have ever had of figurative painting
in Australia.
BILL HANNAN
FILMS
Marseilles,
via Hollywood
Fanny. Century Theatre. Sydney.
Tf it is a big, prettily colored, mechanic-
ally efficient, lushly orchestrated pic-
ture that you want, Joshua Logan’s
“Fanny” may be just the thing. But if
you have sharp memories of the earlier
French films from the same material of
Marcel Pagnol's plays about the un-
inhibited dwellers on the Marseilles
waterfront you will be happier if you
stay away.
These three earlier films were made
in the thirties under Pagnol’s own super-
vision (though they did not reach Aus-
tralia until the early fifties). The first,
“Marius”, was directed by Alexander
Korda; the two later ones, I think, were
directed by Pagnol himself, though I am
not sure.
They were the sort of films that enclose
the viewer and make him feel from the
start that the people of the story and
their affairs are matters of intimate con-
cern to him, and that their environment
is for the time his environment. And
that is just where the new film fails; it
is a product of the machine, and a stagey
one at that.
Rotha said of Pagnol that he regarded
the cinema as “a printing press for the
drama”. If that is true of Pagnol it is
trebly true of Joshua Logan, a theatre
man who has turned to the cinema main-
ly to reproduce Broadway successes. In
“Fanny” (based directly on the Broad-
way version of the story) the theatre-
orientation is painfully evident, no matter
how busily Logan moves his cameras
around the elaborate waterfront set.
The chief purveyors of ham are
Maurice Chevalier and Charles Boyer, as
the sentimentally quarrelsome elders;
Leslie Caron, as Fanny, plays with more
restraint and provides the most likeable
characterisation, though she makes an
uncommonly ladylike fish-pedlar.
MARTIN LONG


WRITERS' AND PHOTOGRAPHERS'
MARKETING GUIDE (1962-3 ed.)
Aust., N.Z. and Oversea Markets for al! classes
of MSS a'nd photos. Also publishers, literary
agents, etc.
Complete detailed data, 15/- (post lid.)
Most booksellers, or direct from
AUSTRALIAN WRITERS'
PROFESSIONAL SERVICE
Box 28, P. 0., Collins St., Melbourne.
THE RED PAGE
Great Modernists v.
Little Contemporaries
One can be too deferential to an inherited culture
By JAMES McAULEY
(Author of “The End of Modernity”)
The Struggle of the Modern. Stephen
Spender. Hamish Hamilton. 31s.
Otephen Spender’s sympathies are
mainly with the great moderns
still peculiarly modern although their
work is now a generation old, and with-
out significant succession along its own
line.
What Rilke, Pound, the early Eliot, the
later Yeats, Joyce, and to some extent
D. H. Lawrence, did was to set out “to
invent a new literature”, because they
were convinced that the modern world
was radically different from the whole
of the past, and required a radically new
kind of literary response. Hence they
were self-declared revolutionaries, reject-
ing continuity with their immediate pre-
decessors.
On the other hand, they hated and
attacked the modern world and its pre-
vailing values, and looked to the past.
So they were also in some sense tradi-
tionalists, and claimed to be so. But
these revolutionary traditionalists, stand-
ing within a world whose catastrophic
dissociation from the past they wanted
to express, felt free to reach out uni-
versally and eclectically into other times
and other cultures to make up their own
personal version of the traditional.
Thus they sought to produce highly in-
dividual works of art, in which their
hostile and despairing vision of the
present, seen against their personal vision
of the past, would somehow be trans-
formed into a unique revelation. They
entered “the God-like position of being
isolated within their own creations, of
having to re-invent the world and all its
values within their art.”
While a close study of any one writer
would prompt some qualification or ad-
justment of this description it is sub-
stantially on target.
Spender sees very well the unsolved
problems in this revolutionary and yet
eclectically traditionalist modernism. He
notes especially that it was rooted in a
despair of external reality, but energised
by a “faith in the transforming power of
art, which, if it cannot save external
society, can perhaps redeem inner life.”
He sees that this implies an alienation
of the literary mind from non-literary
experience, tending towards the convic-
tion that in the modern world genuine
values have disappeared except insofar
as they are re-created within works of
imagination, and perhaps communicated
to minds impregnated with those works.
Thus Spender quotes Wallace Stevens,
a tiresome lesser modernist, who wrote
that the poet has “immensely to do with
giving life whatever savour it possesses
. . . After one has abandoned a belief
in God, poetry is the essence which takes
its place as life’s redemption.” Such state-
ments, with which modern literature is
littered, have always seemed to me to be
quite mad, though intelligible as symp-
toms of distress.
What a relief to find someone who
admires and understands the modern
movement and who nevertheless protests
against the illusion that genuine values
now exist only in literary capsules! Not
works of art only, or chiefly, but rather
living persons in their daily existence can
and do discover and embody genuine
values: “Those who love or suffer or are
courageous can recreate, as though ‘on
the first day’, the living situation which
is the gift for the poet to interpret in his
poem.” What’s the matter with us that
such a thing has to be insisted on? One
does not have to wait for extreme situa-
tions to know this; but certainly it be-
comes most evident in extreme situations.
Spender reflects upon the letters of
German soldiers in Stalingrad, published
not long ago: “I had again the impression
that where men are made aware of the
extremes of the human condition, in many
cases the values whose loss the intel-
lectual critics have so long deplored
emerge. For those values are, at least
in part, not institutional and doctrinal,
but potential in human individuals.”
But while Spender sees the alienation
from external reality implied in the role
the modernists assigned to the creative
imagination, and while he acknowledges
that their extremist literary methods were
an endgame, he is not happy with the
anti-climax of the post-modernist period.
“The sociological novel, the political
play, poems of personal relations and
decisions, or of animals and nature” are
too limited, too cautious, too little in
contact with the depths.
/\ne manoeuvre in the retreat from the
heroic period of modernism is what
Spender calls neo-traditionalism. The
revolutionary traditionalists, because of
their consciousness of the break with
the past, were wide-ranging and eclectic,
drawing at will on many different cul-
tures and periods, as Pound and Joyce
and the earlier Eliot did. The neo-tradi-
tionalists tend to narrow down their
reference to tradition and cease to em-
brace the world. Such neo-traditionalism
may be Christian or non-Christian. Spen-
der sees the later Eliot as tending to
retreat into a special relationship to the
Anglican Christian tradition. Other
writers seek to attach themselves to a
particular way of life or “organic com-
munity”, such as Old New England, or
the South, or the Wheelwright’s Shop, or
the chapel-going proletarian “alterna-
tive culture” of England, or our own
local “tempo di democrap, bias ostensibly
Australian” or whatever the phrase is.
Here there are more questions raised
than Spender stops to consider. But at
least one can agree that there is a signi-
ficant difference between the revolutionary
modernist trying to grasp the whole
present and the whole past, and the neo-
traditionalist who places himself nos-
talgically at the failing end of one par-
ticular sociocultural stream. Moreover,
as that stream fails, all that is finally
left of it is not people in an environment,
but merely a few books which are the
ultimate conduits of the tradition.
Among the neo-traditionalists, the
critic-interpreter tends to predominate
over the creative artist. Spender has some
shrewd observations about the ways of
modern criticism. For instance, he points
out that those who present D. H. Law-
rence as the great exemplar of the non-
conformist proletarian “alternative cul-
ture” forget that “his actions and the
greater part of his writing show that he


mm
Si
i
if
&
4*4
c
Mail us tJLi
coupon
We’ll send 1°“
Austral^
12 times a y ga '
ViviH, la - Past and P
Pa g pi y to . life each 7
th° f Walkabout
tor e n J hrou B h eyes of t>
the. n ? ost authors .■ • se€
t>h c . 'enses of lead ', ng ,.
ing I.'t's bigger, its
W a y.A han ever, its ‘
>ant ; ,lfe magazine -
JW 1 m miss.
• •'
All we need is your:
NAME:
ADDRESS:
CITY: STATE:
Anywhere in Australia: 12 issues,
£l/12/6. Remittance enclosed
Send me an account later.
Hand this coupon to your newsagent, or
mail to Walkabout, 18 Collins St., Me lb.
MS 582
was largely concerned with getting away
from the very tradition which he is now
being written (or analysed) into.”
He also protests against the tendency,
inherited from modernism but reinforced
by neo-traditionalism, to regard literature
(and literary criticism) as the sole sur-
viving means of initiation into genuine
values. This is especially alarming when
the permitted range is so narrow: “I con-
fess that the idea of limiting the tradition
to a few dozen books analysed by critics
who are also teachers of English literature,
and who know almost nothing of foreign
literature, nothing of the other arts,
gives me a sense of choking claustro-
phobia.” We know, of course, whom this
refers to; the point is well taken, but I
won’t rub it in, because the necessary
anti-Leavis protests have now been made,
and one doesn't have to go on and on
about it.
Let me conclude in an unwontedly
personal vein, prompted by the fact that
I once published a volume of essays
called “The End of Modernity” in which
I analysed literary modernism in a way
that has points in common with Spen-
der's analysis. There is not much in that
collection that I wouldn’t still defend,
statement by statement. But I certainly
wouldn't, a decade later, write the same
essays again. In tone and implication they
now seem to me too close to being neo-
traditionalist in something like Spender’s
sense: too deferential to an inherited
culture, too responsive to the notion of
orthodoxy in contingent matters, a men-
tal set which one wouldn't call thomist,
but might perhaps call thomoid.
The term “tradition” can apply to the
absolutely essential supernatural truths,
but this is a unique and special
sense. It can also apply to the various
accreted structures of idea and image
and usage which naturally arise in
association with the essential truths; but
there is an infinite distance between the
two meanings, which I have been well
aware of in theory, not always so well
in practice. It is a privilege to be orthodox
and traditionalist in the first sense; but,
especially today, there is much to be said
for a light and flexible relation to tradi-
tion in the second sense.
Spender's book is valuable and stimu-
lating. not least in challenging whatever
is excessively nostalgic, limiting, muscle-
bound and defensively stiffened m neo-
traditionalist postures —and in reminding
us that, however neat and cautious today’s
performances may be, the great modern-
ists, even in their failure, were worth
more.
Inside Poland Now
The Catholic Communists?
By EUGENE BAJKOWSKI
The Modern Polish Mind. An an-
thology edited by Maria Kuncewicz.
Seeker and Warburg. 435. 6d.
TTnlike the Tsars, the Kaisers or Hitler,
the Kremlin has not tried to destroy
Poland's language or culture. Polish
children, for example, are no longer
flogged by German schoolmasters for
reciting their prayers in Polish. Instead a
concerted effort has been made to
make the Poles accept and serve the
forcibly imposed Communist state, tied
economically and politically to the Soviet
empire.
As Maria Kuncewicz points out in her
thoughtful and sober introduction to this
book, the result of all this has been
to transform Poland “into a laboratory
retort where the most incompatible ele-
ments of human destiny are melting into
new forms of coexistence . . . “What a
contemporary Pole thinks, how he feels
about life, exposed as he is to German
nationalist vindications on one side and
the Soviet might on the other, contributes
valuable material to mankind’s experi-
ence.”
In Poland today a small Communist
minority, euphemistically calling itself
“the United Workers’ Party”, rules a
Catholic nation of 30 million. The Com-
munist state is officially secular. Atheistic
propaganda is subsidised by the govern-
ment. Yet several Catholic feasts, which
are working days in many Western coun-
tries, are officially observed as public
holidays. Easily half the card-carrying
party members go to mass on Sundays.
The Press is controlled, but allowed to
be unorthodox and daring on occasions.
The party, which holds all the purse-
strings, lays down the line in literature,
art, theatre and the film industry, yet
writers, painters and film-makers seem
to enjoy a remarkable degree of creative
freedom. Contacts with the West are fre-
quent and numerous.
It is in this situation that Polish writers
live and work. They cannot change the
system but are doing their best to human-
ise it, and even make it serve their own
ends. And they have been pretty success-
ful in trying to make their life in the
laboratory retort as comfortable as pos-
sible. For this they had to pay the price
of accepting the system.
An entire people cannot become
political refugees in its own country But


acceptance is followed by accommoda-
tion.
This forced coexistence is not one-
sided. If 30 million Poles have been
forced to live under Communist ideology
and social and economic doctrines, their
rulers have also been forced into daily
coexistence with a hostile national tradi-
tion, an established way of life and the
powerful, all-pervading influence of the
Catholic Church. This odd and precarious
coexistence is fully reflected in Maria
Kuncewicz’s anthology. Making it one of
the most significant books to appear in
recent years.
“The Modern Polish Mind” succeeds
to a remarkable degree in showing the
fascinating and often weird processes
going on in this alchemist’s kitchen. Some
40 authors are included in the 440 pages.
They range all the way from Catholics
grouped around Cracow's “Tygodnik
Powszechny” (a weekly said to be close
to Cardinal Wyszynski) to the famous
economist Oskar Lange and militant
communists.
Thematically it is divided into four
sections: “What Polish writers remem-
ber”, “How they see life”, “What they
believe” and “Their humor”. The first
section has several poignant and stark
reminiscences of wartime German terror
and Polish resistance, including Kernel
Filipowicz's “A Speck of Dirt”, Jan Jozef
Szczepanski’s “The Tramp”, Bronislaw
Tronski’s “Death Passed Here” and Adolf
Rudnicki's macabre “The Crystal
Stream”. Tadeusz Borowski gives a
graphic and almost impersonal account of
a normal day in a Nazi concentration
camp.
But works based on national martyr-
ology do not form the substance of Maria
Kuncewicz’s book. She leaves no doubt
that, however painful and recent, all this
is now the past—still influencing creative
thought, but nevertheless the past. She
is more concerned with the present and
tries to show how Polish writers depict
life, what they think, how they laugh.
We are treated to such masterpieces of
modern Polish prose as Maria Dabrow-
ska’s “The Village Wedding” and Jaroslaw
Iwaszkiewicz’s “Sweet Flax”. There are
Jerzy Andrzejewski’s intriguing “The
Gold Fox” and Jan Dobraczynski’s un-
pretentiously devout “The Smile of
Jeremiah”.
Perhaps the most significant are three
incompatible philosophical essays: Antoni
Golubiew’s simple and militant “Why
I am a Catholic”, Professor Adam
SchafFs “On Moral Responsibility” (a
superb example of technically brilliant,
if sterile mental acrobatics by the high
priest of intellectual latter-day Marxism)
and Leszek Kolakowski's controversial
“The Priest and the Jester.”
Disguised as an abstract philosophical
treatise Kolakowski’s essay shows the
tremendous influence of theology on
modern philosophy, particularly Marxism,
and derides reactionary orthodoxy. It is
perhaps the most daring piece legally
published east of the Elbe since 1945.
A sample of the stilted and pompous
“socialist realist” newspeak is offered to
the curious and the unwary through its
official troubadour, Stefan Zolkiewski
(“Is ‘Socialist Literature’ Enough”).
Finally comes some rather wry
humor, poking fun at the bewildering
mixture of “East and West, Communism
and Catholicism, existentialism and neo-
positivism, patriotism and international-
ism” which has been Poland's daily life
for the last 18 years.
In Wildest NSW
The Letters of Rachel Henning. Edited
by David Adams; foreword and
illustrations by Norman Lindsay.
Angus & Robertson. 17s. 6d.
pocket book, 275. 6d. bound.
Flying Fox and Drifting Sand. Francis
Ratcliffe. Angus and Robertson.
16s. pocket book, 275. 6d. bound.
two new “Siriuses” are, in effect,
pioneering books, the former be-
longing to social life of men, and par-
ticularly women, in the early days of
Australia; the latter to the field of an
almost unexplored world of Australian
natural history in which a visiting scien-
tist found so much that was new and
strange.
The Henning letters are a charming
series written from this country by a
cultivated woman who braved the rough
life of pristine stations in the pastoral
age of between 1853 and 1877. Originally
they appeared in serial form in The
Bulletin and their popularity led to
their publication in an edition which
was very quickly sold out. Apart from
their reflection of the character of the
stately type of old-time station chatelaine
the female prototype of the English
gentleman who dressed for dinner in
wildest Africa they contain a lot of
authentic information about life in an
important pastoral period. They are
written with the same simplicity and art-
less spontaneity that characterises the
descriptive writing of so many early
women settlers. Hardship throughout is
calmly taken for granted as it comes,
and with enjoyment instead of complaint.
They are such letters as Jane Austen
might have written in similar case.
Francis Ratcliffe’s book is something
of a world on which civilisation was still
in process of stamping its mark when
he reached Australia more than a
generation ago. He was a prize student in
a notable team under Julian Huxley at
Oxford and came here to make a study
in “economic ecology” in fact of the
flying fox. His book was published first
in 1938 by Chatto & Windus in London.
Aided by a flair for detailed observation,
an eye for the picturesque and the un-
usual, he produced a classic. He rescued
for posterity many things belonging to
the deathbed of the primitive in the
north and west otherwise unrecorded, or
recorded only crudely or incredibly
lovely pictures of the galah, recreating
memories of their flocks which every-
body who knew the bush of fifty years
ago retains in his subconscious; pictures
of the little red, dog-faced foxes on the
move in camps with populations as
numerous as the human ones of great
cities; pictures of a forest floor spangled
at night with myriad points of golden
light the eyes of “a host of wolf
spiders ... on the hunt, not in scores
but in thousands.”
This is one of the most fascinating of
books about the inner private life of the
bush.
M. H. ELLIS
Colonisers
The Last of the Incas. Edward Hyams
and George Ordish. Longmans.
375. 3d.
j& t the age of 60, the leader of a small
pack of brawlers, the illiterate Piz-
arro, came to the Incas in the
name of the Vicar of Christ and the Em-
peror of Spain who required the Peru-
vians’ obedience as Christians and vas-
sals. When Atahualpa the priest-king re-
sisted, 4000 of his men were killed. Like
Stalin the Spaniards had a spooky re-
spect for legal forms and they arraigned
their opponent on the charge of raising
an insurrection. While bound to the stake
and with the faggots ready for the fire
he was induced to accept the religion of
love and mercy. The Spaniards baptised
him Juan in honor of John the Baptist
whose day 29th August, 1533 it
was. Then they strangled him.
Jn the isolated part of the Western
Andes the Incas had built up over 1000
years an agrarian communist-theocratic
empire similar to that which had arisen
in Mesopotamia and Baluchistan some
4000 years earlier. It was a sophisticated
culture embracing some 24 million docile
subjects, but it was involved in civil war
and Pizarro and his men happened to
arrive at the critical time. With aston-
ishing ease they shattered the whole struc-
ture and went on to impose their own


culture to the lasting misery of the South
American Indians.
The story, surely more exciting than
fiction, is admirably told by the authors.
They argue that the destruction of such
a magnificent empire was not only a hu-
man but an aesthetic and scientific trag-
edy. “Pizarro and his companions were
committing not only one of the first
major acts of that colonialism which is
now coming to such a sorry end; they
were also guilty of the sort of crime which
is committed when a rare species of ani-
mal is exterminated or an irreplaceable
work of art destroyed.”
DOUGLAS TERRY
New Music Policy
Two Songs for Female Voices. Eric
Gross. University of Sydney Music
Publications. 3s.
Crucifixus, Et Resurrexit. Edited by
Eric Gross. University of Sydney
Music Publications. 4s.
HPhese two publications are the first of
a projected series to be published by
Sydney University’s Music Department.
Mr Gross’s own two songs are scored
for three-part female choir, consisting of
first and second sopranos and altos. They
contain no passages that are difficult to
sing because of awkward vocal writing.
The first (and better) song, titled “Ding,
Dong, Bell”, is a setting of “Tell me,
Where Is Fancy Bred?” by Shakespeare.
The second is “A Ditty” (“My True
Love Hath My Heart”, by Sidney).
Mr Gross writes in a manner more
reminiscent of Walton than of any
other well-known composer. In both
cases a fundamentally conservative
diatonic idiom is overlaid with a large
amount of chromaticism. However, Mr
Gross seems more at ease with his style
than Walton, and his harmony is neither
as violent nor as cloying as Walton’s can
be. He is not as good a melodist as
Walton, or as assured in handling large
forms (if a choral work performed at
Sydney University last year is any indi-
cation), but there can be no doubt that
he is an able and pleasing composer.
The Monteverdi pieces, which come
from a collection of his church music and
appear to be part of a complete setting of
the Mass, are strongly contrasted in mood
and style. “Crucifixus” is scored for alto,
two tenors and bass with basso continuo,
and is properly an example of the old
secular madrigal. The music itself is
conventionally solemn in mood, without
rising to the heights of expressiveness
found in the best madrigals. “Et Resur-
rexit”, scored for two high voices, two
violins, and basso continuo, is much more
“modern” in style. It is an early ex-
ample of the cantato. It is no more
closely knit than “Crucifixus”, but there
is less chromaticism, and more attention
to the structural significance of changes
of key.
The handout that came with these
scores states that “whereas frequently
editions of old music tend to be pub-
lished in large unwieldy and costly
volumes,” the University of Sydney
Music Publications will be publishing
conveniently sized scores at pocket-sized
prices. This gives a wrong impression; a
great deal of old (or at least baroque and
rococo) music is available in cheap and
well-edited performing editions. How-
ever, the haphazard indenting system of
music shops here makes these editions
hard to come by locally and, from this
point of view, USMP is a particularly
welcome addition to the ranks of music
publishers.
The handout also states that “all the
editions and compositions will be the
work of members of the staff of the
Music Department of the University of
Sydney”. There seems to be no good
reason why this policy of exclusiveness
should be adopted, especially when there
are so few publication outlets for Aus-
tralian musicians. In any event, to build
up a worthwhile and varied series of
publications, Professor Donald Peart, the
general editor, will have to enlist the
help of scholars and composers outside
his own department, not all of whose
members, I imagine, are as interested in
editing or composition as Mr Gross.
There is a misprint in bar 15 of “Ding,
Dong Bell”, where a B flat is given as
B natural.
JOHN SMALL
TV: Proof by Intuition
Television Tension Programmes A
Study Based on a Content Analysis
of Western, Crime and Adventure
Programmes televised by Melbourne
Stations, 1960-61. By David Mar-
tin. Australian Broadcasting Con-
trol Board.
I>y some modern standards, the Greek
** philosopher Diogenes would have
made an ideal investigator of television
programmes, especially the so-called
“tension” programmes. He may not
have possessed the insight of a poet or
the imagination of a novelist, but he
would have shown himself a master of
deduction, divination and extrapolation.
For those who insist on evidence he
would have a half-compassionate con-
tempt. Upon those who demand an end
to lofty pontifical pronouncements he
would pour forth derision and ridicule,
accusing them of timidity, of being
stooges of vested interests, of lacking a
sense of public responsibility. The high-
falutin’ procedures of objective research
or the carefully controlled processes of
exhaustive scientific experimentation
would be of no significance to him;
they would be either irrelevant or un-
necessary.
All he would do would be to look
at the programmes in person. At once,
with lightning-like certainty, he would
recognise their impact, classify them as
“harmful” (as they sure would have
been) and warn the community of what
would befall if anybody else looked at
them.
When Diogenes wasn’t living in his
tub, he was to be found wandering from
place to place with a lantern, searching
frantically for an honest man. He was
a Cynic (sic), of that peerless band that
enjoyed a complete contempt for know-
ledge and for the predilections of
civilised life. He wasn’t so much look-
ing for facts as seeking those that agreed
with his ready-made opinions. Contem-
poraries assure us that he was a “source
of wonder and amazement even to him-
self.”
Diogenes still walks the land, carrying
his lantern, casting his pearls, discon-
tented, disillusioned but as seif-con-
fident as ever.
NEWMAN ROSENTHAL
An Olsen Primer
John Olsen. Virginia Spate. Georgian
House. 425.
"VTot the least merit of this monograph,
the third in the series on con-
temporary Australian art, is that it gives
an informal history of the emergence of
“abstract expressionism” in Sydney art
in the 19505, tracing it from general
boredom with the “charm school,” the
French Exhibition of 1953, the arrival of
Robert Klippel from overseas, and the
conversations and arguments of Bill
Rose, Eric Smith, Passmore, Klippel
and John Olsen. These were, according
to Virginia Spate, among the most
exciting years in Olsen’s life. She does
not hesitate to quote some of Olsen’s
more naive remarks about life and art
but it is as well to be reminded that
nothing is more corny than the philo-
sophic conversation of artists, good or
bad except perhaps that of actors.
With nine pages of color plates and 28
of black and white the book is essential
reading for those who want a primer of
“abstract expressionism” and of Olsen
in particular.


Three Responses to dying
1. Conformer’s
Why must all arum lilies be alike,
the same in their deathly lack
of any colour, their one
smug petal their phallic shrine?
How dare they remain so haughty,
thriving on artificial stimuli
to exude that sick identical scent?
And their obstinate assurance, intent
on facing upward, keeps them from knowing their
stems
have rotted, keeps them from fearing the drums
and gaps of ruptured earth, keeps them from knowing
that the foulness ever lying
in the air about them issues
from their breathe-in breathe-out perfume tissues:
complacent exactitude of sameness.
Or can it be
they know these things and welcome them; see
them as fair exchange for death in
honoured places on the gardener’s coffin?
2. Hero’s
The goanna, curved to the scales
of five-foot strength, sucks dry the day,
talks to himself and thinks and smiles.
Who dreams of death or an enemy?
Most assuredly not he.
He (cretin!) savours old hunts and old success,
jolts his pulse, remembers dim
puzzles from a hideout; and hums
with pumping throat his hallelujahs.
Loss
to the lecture room, he’s content to sag
in his laboratory, in his studio, on his log:
puffed with lover’s power
and sportsman’s trophies.
Take care
lizard: these things, you’ll find,
are priced by the dollar rouble mark or pound
or what-you-will. For song and blood and thought
have achieved the ultimate importance ....
they can be sold and bought.
Then maybe you’re the one unversed in this
to reassert for man his manliness.
3. Artist’s
Below the paste-on blackness of ? tree, float
oceaning leaves in stiff crests of light
the brushstrokes of the moon. Their froth is too
austere
is too majestic for any but the seer
to observe in motion. And the river behind,
glossy with the pearled
apparel of night, is the end
of the world.
Some think of the final edge
as having no other bank. But there it is— a smudge
of trees on the farther rim. The end is that cleft
between beats of a heart, that blackness left
dividing the flat farewell of old companions
from the greeting of strangers in stealthy unions.
It’s the floating in frigid water between
the black oceans of the moon;
and lovemaking under rigid trees that chart
the patterned pinnacles of art.
RODNEY HALL
POETRY
Bishop Island
Stars burn like beacon lights
A still, immense cartography
For dead men’s ships turned on the sand,
The pier slid in the nightmare sea.
Time leaks through my hands.
Forgotten ships, still old men,
The flowing tide cuts round the bars
Yosemite and Lucinda ran
In pathways of the wind and stars,
Time leaks through the sands.
But who remembers Bishop now,
The tides that swayed the Bingera,
The stars laced on the steamer’s bow?
Time leaks through our hands.
DAVID WOOD
Delinquent
A wall of bottles and a yard of bricks
Recall his years of innocence,
The tow-haired boy of six
Who fled a father’s salutary kicks
To build an empire in his own defence
And, perching in the pepperina tree,
Flew solo over tile and slate,
Cheering defiantly
As yet another Heinkel hit the sea
Far beyond Trondheim or the River Plate.
He was the greatest ace. And yet the years
Beyond thirteen, denying love,
Could only feed his tears
Until he scorns the world as it appears:
Beauty on hoardings, pilots far above.
Where south winds flurry the suburban pall
Icarus bears his guilty load
And, riding for a fall,
Hears the loud voices crying “Animal!”
And sirens wailing in St Kilda Road.
CHRIS WALL CE CRABBE
Those Who Have Travelled Far ...
Those who have travelled far
and coins across those distant countries
must sometimes look to where
the green first made their memories,
and finding all their footsteps
faint and out of mind, have thought
they looked across lost landscapes
far from the simple thing they sought.
Ar.d they stand, their steps
before they fade, not where they seemed,
but in a widening circle stop;
and all the distance that they dreamed
from heights no hawk has ever held,
saves them from what the hawk has known:
their soft and fallow fields
within that circle turned to stone.
JOHN CROYSTON


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Premier Bolte’s Siberia
Ooviet Premier Khrushchev has his
agricultural problems in the “virgin
lands” of Siberia. Victorian Premier
Bolte has his in the virgin lands of
Heytesbury.
Heytesbury does not even get a men-
tion on most, maps of Victoria.
This is not altogether surprising be-
cause until a few years ago the name
Heytesbury denoted only a huge strag-
gling forest of scrubby, worthless tim-
ber in Victoria’s wool and butter-rich
Western District.
But in the post-war years, with thou-
sands of returned soldiers hungry for
land, the Soldier Settlement Commission
turned its attention to Heytesbury.
For the man with only an axe and
file as his tools Heytesbury was heart-
break country. Some of the pitifully small
and underdeveloped farms around the
forest fringe had taken three generations
to establish.
Without heavy machinery mach-
inery he could not afford a man could
never clear enough land to return him
a living. As fast as he cleared, the tena-
cious re-growth sprang up behind him.
In 1956 the Soldier Settlement Com-
mission established two pilot farms in
the forest and three years ago, after
clearing and ploughing thousands of
acres, it began to move settlers on to
semi-established dairy farms.
The Heytesbury Scheme, as it became
known, quickly became a test for the
Commission (now the Rural Finance and
Settlement Commission) and the State
Government. It was the first time the
Commission until then phenomenally
successful in settling thousands of re-
turned soldiers had tackled virgin for-
est land.
And the Government steadfastly main-
tained its intention to establish Heytes-
bury as a dairying settlement in spite
of opposition from the Commonwealth
Government and from sections of the
dairy industry to the consequent in-
crease in dairy production.
The “glamor” settlement, populated
with civilian rather than soldier settlers,
began well. Each man got 160 to 200
acres, most of it already in pasture, a
house, shed, milking shed. It was pion-
eering the easy way and the “battlers”
looked on with envy. The grass was
waist high and everyone was optimistic.
Trace elements, especially copper and
superphosphate, had worked the miracle.
That was three years ago. Ninety-five
settlers have moved into Heytesbury in
those three years the last batch less
than a year ago.
The first hint of trouble came when
grass grubs appeared almost overnight to
strip great swathes of pastureland bare
of a single blade of grass.
There followed a couple of unusually
dry seasons. And slowly it became ap-
parent to the settlers that their proper-
ties, although approximately equal in
size, were not equal in potential.
Some men, on light, sandy, grass-tree
plain country, found they just could not
grow enough grass to boost their milk
cheque to an economic level. They wat-
ched their capital drain away. Debts
piled up to the Commission, to fer-
tiliser firms, machinery firms, dairy fac-
tories.
Late last month one of the 95 took
the plunge and handed his farm back
to the Commission. And overnight a
steady rumble of protest grew into a
shout a shout that finally brought
Victoria’s Acting Lands Minister Horace
Petty, a Toorak newsagent, racing down
to Heytesbury with a bevy of his Com-
missioners.
At a tense and emotional meeting the
remaining 94 men and their wives told
Mr Petty of their troubles “How’d you
like to rear six kids on £4 9s. 2d. a
week?” he was asked.
Two more settlers got up and an-
nounced that they were walking off their
farms.
There was outspoken criticism of the
Commission and signs of a sharp split
amongst the settlers themselves.
At any other time and any other place
the protests could have been expected to
die a natural death with plenty of eager
young men ready and anxious to snap up
the abandoned properties.
But Premier Bolte, with the vaunted
success of Victoria’s soldier and civilian
settlement schemes at stake and several
shaky seats in the neighborhood, dare
not risk Heytesbury becoming a running
sore.
Lands Minister Petty made this plain
when he went out of his way to promise
the settlers a sympathetic hearing for
their grievances and “all the help hu-
manly possible.”
Like Mr Khrushchev. Mr Bolte ap-
parently has no wish to be relegated to
a political Siberia.
Our Empty North
A ustralians, as a people, are often
criticised for not showing more
enterprise in developing our empty north.
We are represented by these critics as
a slothful race, crowding together in
cities on the eastern seaboard, living in
ease and neglecting the wide open spaces
of the north. This is not the case.
The north of Australia is a stark coun-
try most inhospitable, difficult to
develop. It includes many thousands of
square miles of “gibbers” and spinifex.
The Dutch reached its shores as early
as 1606, Dampier in 1688; and over the
years many island people have landed
in search of trepang. None, however,
considered it a land worth living in.
On the other hand, it became increas-
ingly apparent to Europeans from the
time of Cook’s discoveries in 1770, that a
fertile crescent existed along the eastern
and southern shores of the continent; a
fertile crescent, moreover, that contained
extensive deposits of coal, some rivers
and harbors.
When this was later enhanced by the
discovery of other minerals as well,
development accelerated, and it will con-
tinue until the population reaches its ulti-
mate limit which could be 50 millions.
The greater part of Australian population
will always inhabit this region and this
is the area, for obvious reasons, we must
develop first.
So let us get on with this job, leaving
the development of the empty north to
follow an exhaustive scientific examina-
tion of this difficult country.
Meantime, some pastoral and mineral
exploitation will continue, but it is un-
likely that this alone will bring in its train
a great growth in population. It is the
utilisation of the land to its optimum
the service industries which follow and
the secondary industries wh'ch will then
develop that will ultimately mean a
large increase in the number of people
living north of Capricorn.
The north will never be peopled with
millions at the wave of a magic wand —
whoever wields it.
I. M. HARDY


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Building —Adjusted by Rain
Home building statistics covering new houses and flats have
been pounced on by the calamity howlers because the
number of new homes commenced in the March quarter
of 1963 is 1,069 less than the December quarter.
Seasonally adjusted, turned upside down and stood on their
head, building statistics can be designed to make you weep.
Things just aren’t what they used to be in the old days when
94,794 new homes were built in 1960.
Whether statistics are seasonally adjusted or snivellingly
adjusted, they don’t alter the facts of the moment. The facts
are these: There were 86,776 new homes completed in Aus-
tralia in 1962, 88,473 in 1961 and 94,794 in 1960.
In 1960, the high rate of home building was condemned as
inflationary. The two years since then witnessed a level of
home building in excess of the 1959 level, despite the credit
squeeze.
Already 20,272 new homes have been built in the March
quarter and there should be a strong pick-up in the next
quarter. The June quarter usually shows a rise in home build-
ing with completions rising above the March quarter (based
on figures for the last six years anyway).
There is added impetus this quarter, too. Interest rates
have been lowered and more home buyers could be encouraged
to build now that the economy is showing more definite signs
of recovery. The tempo of activity should carry over into the
September quarter and maintain a rising trend, provided we
get a reasonable winter. Rain has caused so many interruptions
that building statistics need to be sniffingly adjusted.
The December quarter, usually a more buoyant period,
could see the year finish with a flourish in building activity.
These figures could be adjusted for various reasons, including
the fact that the population is rising and more people are
getting married each year (79,090 in 1962 against 76,686 in
1961).
But the urge to build, the availability of finance and a general
improvement in job security are factors which must be con-
sidered when analysing building statistics. Some of those factors
may take some time to flow through the pipeline. By the end
of 1963, however, they should be a much stronger force.
Final figures, in fact, could exceed the number of houses com-
pleted in 1962.
Don’t forget there are still plenty of home units which are
a drug on the market. The speculative builders who rushed
to erect home units in the boom (including the big developers)
are not contributing their weight to the current building
statistics. The scarcity of land around Sydney probably will
encourage the big developers to come back into high density
building. And this will mean a sudden spurt to building figures
when it occurs.
The snivelling adjustment for this might be that it is
abnormal and likely to fluctuate. But no one seems to consider
that the wet weather at the beginning of 1963 also was
abnormal. The deluge in March certainly must have had a
terrific impact on home building commencements in NSW.
If there is an upturn in building, it is hoped the critics relate
the figures to the proper influences without screaming “infla-
tion”! If, at that time, they look out their windows, they may
note it has stopped raining (but not last week).
WORLD CHEMICAL INDUSTRY
FACES PRESSURES
PPhe facts of world over-capacity and intense competition
within the chemicals industry are perpetually with the
president of the vast Dow Chemical International (Mr
Macauley Whiting). Mr Whiting has just visited the Aus-
tralian subsidiary, Dow Chemical (Aust.) Pty, and the associate
petrochemical venture, CSRC-Dow, at Altona (Vic.).
He finds the same situation ruling here and does not expect
much alleviation in the future. The only solution, so far as
any particular company is concerned, is to set out “just like
ICIANZ” vigorously to increase efficiency, to lower costs,
and to sell with plenty of service.
Though principally a distributor, that is precisely the way
in which Dow (Aust.) has had to respond. It has no immediate
specific plans for manufacture. Mr Whiting believes consider-
able progress can be made by tailoring products specially to
the Australian market, particularly in agricultural chemicals.
Here Dow proposes to place more research men in this
country, trained to meet farming requirements and also to
sell. The company is working upon a highly effective weed-
killer at this moment.
Reference to ICIANZ leads to the great British ICI, which,
in this time of chemicals perplexities, has surprised overseas
financial circles with a considerable profit leap. After the
unsuccessful takeover struggle with Courtaulds, a chastened
chairman (Mr Paul Chambers) ordered a thorough spring-
cleaning, producing evident results. The giant is still in the
hands of management consultants!
Smaller enterprises could take note, as Courtaulds, in
similar circumstances, took the road to increased efficiency as
well.
Back to Dow’s Mr Whiting. He finds Altona “as profitable
as could be expected” about 18 months after starting. All
technical problems have been resolved, he says.
It would have been nice to get his comments on latest
Russian developments in this crowded field. Mr Khrushchev
has decided to go into chemicals in a big way. Orders for
polythene and ethylene plants, worth £stg.26 million, have
gone to Britain. Russia’s projected expansion may call for
plant worth several hundred million pounds.


OLD EQUITY HAND LOOKS
TO THE FUTURE
"Decent revelations of the life assurance offices’ continuous
attachment to equity investment gives anything they say
on this matter a special interest. It will be recalled that during
the sticky 1962 Stock Exchange year, the AMP Society put
an additional £B.B million of its funds into ordinary shares
and the National Mutual £5.1 million.
We must bypass fascinating reflections on how much sums
like these held the market on a more even keel than could
have been expected. It is harder to resist an even subtler topic:
How much of these purchases were made off the market?
But, for the comfort of common or garden investors, it
may be well to treasure some words of AMP chairman Mr
C. G. Crane to his annual meeting. “The central feature of
the society’s investment policy has again been the improve-
ment of investment earnings for the benefit of the policy-
holders,” Mr Crane intoned.
To achieve that laudable objective, “apart from fixed interest
securities the society has also continued to build up its equity
interests . . . through the selective acquisition of ordinary
shares.”
So staunchly on the equity look-out is the AMP that Mr
Crane had to enter a plaint “in relation to the long-term
availability of suitable equity investments.” This must be
eroded by “the increasing degree of overseas ownership and
control of enterprises operating in Australia.”
“The increasing extent to which access to such ownership is
denied by the form of capital structure by many overseas
companies operating here is a matter of some concern,” Mr
Crane observed.
Almost as a corollary he later went on to chide the Govern-
ment to “look more closely at measures designed to boost the
level of long-term private industrial investment.” But policies
aiming at high activity should not forsake “our new-found
stability in costs and prices.”
STRIKING A TRADE
BALANCE WITH ART
HThe rising trend of imports shows that Australia had a trade
deficit of £13.6 m. for the 10 months to April, 1963, com-
pared with a surplus of £169.9 m. in the corresponding 10
months of 1961-62.
That trend is even more startling when invisible items are
added, such as the cost of freight, insurance, etc. Were it not
for overseas loan borrowings of around £3O m., sales of
wheat to Red China and capital inflow (including undistributed
profits of overseas companies with subsidiaries in Australia),
Australia's overseas reserves would not be in such a healthy
state.
The net change in Australia’s holdings of international
reserves rose £3O m. in the nine months to March, compared
with a gain of £lO m. for the full year to June, 1962.
There could be some adjustments at the end of the year
which could alter this apparent trend. But the inflow of
capital seems to be continuing in April, because the Reserve
Bank's holdings rose by £23 m. to £539 m. in April. This
includes about £10.7 m. from the recent New York loan.
Reliance on capital inflow is quite definite and some quarters
estimate an annual inflow of around £250 m. for the whole
of 1962-63.
Oil companies and motor vehicle companies are investing
large amounts of money at the moment. In the case of car
companies, bulk of the money is represented by profits which
are re-invested in the business. But if undistributed profits are
excluded from the so-called “capital inflow”, the actual inflow
of all new capital into Australia is not much in excess of
the annual profits remitted abroad by Australia.
The increased tempo of economic activity, much welcomed
in business circles, involves fairly heavy overseas purchases,
and not all of them are raw materials.
Some examples, based on eight months figures to February,
are set out hereunder with the corresponding eight months’
figures in parentheses: Textiles and apparel <£Bl.B m. (£.65.1
m.); Machines and machinery £152 m. (£117.5 m.); metals
and metal manufactures £126.8 m. (£77.2 m.). Included in
that last group are motor vehicle components of £59 m.
against £24.1 m. in the previous corresponding period.
There are plenty of other items apparently which Australia
needs when the economy is moving forward, such as books,
magazines, fountain pens, stationery, chemicals and plastics.
But there is one redeeming feature. Australian art really
must be coming into its own, because imports of antiques,
paintings, works of art, etc. were valued at only £445,000 in
the eight months to February against £1,247,000 in the pre-
vious period.
MR WHEELWRIGHT HAS
A ROMAN HOLIDAY
Perhaps we shouldn’t be too critical of the efforts of recent
university rags to amuse the citizens of Melbourne and
Sydney. But after enduring the Melbourne rag and going
along to Scotch College a couple of days later to hear
Mr E. L. Wheelwright speak on The Economics of Education,
the feeling was left that we would be well advised to spend
a great deal more money in planning education to get the
maximum economic and social return.
Although in other respects also the forum proved to be a
Roman Holiday for Wheelwright (how he loves to poke at
the overseas companies operating here!) his argument on this
point was sound enough. Education was big business in any-
body’s language, he said. But we spent only a footling amount
on planning it and only a fraction of the amount spent by
most other countries in the western world.
He doubted whether Australian education, on which £2OO
million a year is spent on publicly financed education alone,
was backed by even £250,000 a year on research into tech-
nology, productivity and efficiency of business. He seemed
to think it pathetic compared with what is being done to
streamline education in other countries.
In a nutshell he believes that there should be some organisa-
tion in Australia charged with the job of measuring the costs
and also the social and economic benefits of education here.
CLIPPING THE
SEMI-GOVERNMENT R/iTES
A cut of ss. p.c. to £5/2/6 p.c. in the interest rates on
semi-government loans for 10 years or longer poses a
tricky question for fixed-interest investors. Is the current
Commonwealth bond rate a true indication of the long-term
rate?
Scarcity of Commonwealth securities and forced buying
pushed bond redemption yields down below 4f p.c. But new
subscribers to semi-governpient loans are entitled to feel
hesitant about investing at lower interest rates. After all, they
are committed for 10 years or more. But bond markets can
change rapidly and there is no escalator clause in a semi-
government loan such as enjoyed (and also endured) by
S.E.A. Queensland.


H33ai
5
COMPANY CARS!
SAVE
ADMINISTRATION
CONSERVE
CAPITAL
INCREASE
PROFITS
KAYS FULLY SERVICED AUTO LEASE
• Eliminates the necessity of tying up valuable working capita-1.
• Eliminates company transport administration.
• Enables accurate budgeting with no detailed accounting.
• Offers free replacement transport in case of accidents or breakdown.
• Eliminates all contingencies arising out of company ownership.
Let Kays show you the economics and numerous benefits to be derived
through AUTO LEASE.
r AYS
LEASING CORP.
PTY. LTD.
A UNIT OF KAY CORPORATION LIMITED
MELBOURNE
(HEAD OFFICE)
18-30 MT. ALEXANDER RD.
33 0431
SYDNEY
106 WILLIAM ST. 31 6621
BRISBANE
40 TANK ST. 2 5837
ADELAIDE
17 TAVISTOCK ST. 8 6486
LAUNCESTON
100 GEORGE ST. 2 4894
KL/R
EDUCATING OUR
TOP EXECUTIVES
FThe Appointments Board and the Ex-
tension Board of Sydney University
are spreading themselves this year in
presenting a four-months series of lec-
ture courses on subjects of current in-
terest to executives in business and in-
dustry. The courses will start on June 11
and end on October 17.
This year a departure will be made
from the usual pattern of four six-
lecture evening courses. The Boards felt
that the need had not been met to pro-
vide an opportunity for top executives
to meet under University auspices to
discuss matters vital to their own busi-
nesses and to the national growth. So
this year’s programme includes four af-
ternoon sessions for senior management
at conveniently spaced intervals. Emin-
ent speakers will deal extensively with
these four subjects:—
• July 18 Top management con-
trols in a business.
• August 1 Tariff policy and
business.
• September 19 —Restrictive prac-
tices and monopolies.
• October 17 The problems of
growth and development in a
business.
Two six-lecture evening courses have
! also been arranged on the subjects of
[“Fundamentals for Executive” and “Busi-
ness in Expansion,” and also one three-
lecture evening course on “Business Ad-
vice.”
A foreword to a brochure issued by
the chairman of each board says that the
general aim of all courses is to deal with
broad principles rather than techniques,
, and to present new points of view and
i new information based on the latest
research.
DR PER JACOBSSON’S
LEGACY
T'he death of Dr Per Jacobsson, chair-
! A man of the executive board and
managing director of the International
! Monetary Fund, leaves far more than
i! a conservative banker to be mourned.
, Indeed, the epithet conservative has been
far too superficially attached to his out-
I look.
An international public servant in the
great tradition, Dr Jacobsson could
claim an enviable record in economic
i forecasting and prediction. This fre-
quent accuracy came out of a vast ex-
I perience in trying to harmonise and
supervise world monetary trends.
Born in Sweden in 1894, Jacobsson
received early training at Uppsala Uni-
versity, with echoes of the outstanding
economist Knut Wicksell still shaking
the corridors.
He had, of course, later to pass
through the Keynesian revolution, which
began its decisive rumblings during the
mid-thirties. But it was chiefly arduous
public effort that formed and conditioned
his views.
For Jacobsson looked back to mem-
bership of the economic and financial
section of the secretariat of the old
League of Nations (1920-28) and to a
position as economic adviser and head
of the economic department of the
Bank of International Settlements at
Basle (1931-56).
From the latter task he came direct
to IMF and the zeal of post-World
War II financial co-operation.
Perhaps much of Dr Jacobsson’s
memorial will be enshrined in the long
series of addresses he was called to
deliver as one result of the IMF ap-
pointment.
As recently as October 29 he was
telling the National Foreign Trade Con-
vention in New York that “whatever
situation may develop on the continent
of Europe, there is every reason for con-
tinuing close co-operation among the
authorities on the two sides of the At-
lantic.”
Jacobsson was sage enough to remark
that it might be easier to pursue ex-
pansionist policies and to intensify inter-
national co-operation than to secure
avoidance of cost increases. He had a
lively fear of the perils lurking in in-
flation, yet lately grew concerned lest
deflationary policies be pushed too far.
Some reproach has been directed at
Dr Jacobsson’s devotion to a basic gold-
exchange standard and his feeling that
“at the moment the facilities available
for the financing of world trade, and the
use made of these facilities, have been
broadly satisfactory.”
That conviction, supported by the
US Treasury, led to rather cavalier treat-
ment of more flexible arrangements put
before the last annual meeting of the
IMF by the British Chancellor of the
Exchequer (Mr Reginald Maudling).
It remains to be seen how the next
few years of world trade display Dr
Jacobsson’s belief that “fears about a
scramble for international liquidity are
exaggerated out of all proportion to
reality.”
All the same, the steadying and notor-
iously well-informed hand is sure to be
missed.


First National Hire Purchase Company
Incorporated 1925
ISSUE OF
REGISTERED NOTES
6 to 10 years 7%
5 years, 6|% • 4 years, b\°/o
3 years, 6°/o • 2 years, s\°/o
Short-term stock also available from 3 months at 4£% p.a.
Applications for Registered Notes can be accepted only on the
printed form included in the prospectus. Copies of the full
prospectus with application forms obtainable from any A.G.C.
branch, your Stockbroker and all branches of the Bank of
New South Wales in Australia, Papua and New Guinea.
PAID UP CAPITAL £8,950,000
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
Cnr. Phillip and Hunter Sts., Sydney • 2 0324
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide • Perth • Hobart • Canberra
ASK THE 'WALES' FOR
ETAILS
RN2-NB
“CROESUS”
The Treasurer’s Miscalculation
VlTith only six weeks to the end of the
*’ fiscal year the Treasury Bulletin
giving the overall financial result of the
Government’s cash flows for the first
nine months of the year puts beyond
doubt that the Federal Treasurer has
made a great miscalculation.
The miscalculation dates back to the
months immediately preceding the last
Budget. Then, acting on advice from
responsible financial sources, largely in
Melbourne, it was decided not to reduce
the bond rate lest loan raisings be even
less than the official estimate. This esti-
mate was that they would fall short of
the previous year’s raisings by £6O
million.
One of Mr Holt’s insistences in his
Budget speech last year was that the
deficit financing (reckoned at a cool £llB
million for the full year) would have
its greatest impact in the first eight or
nine months, when, he said, it would be
most needed. In the result the Treasury
Bulletin shows that in the nine months
to the end of March the Government
used only £lO4 million of short term
finance, compared with no less than
£144.5 million in the same period of the
previous year, when it had budgeted for
a deficit less than a quarter the size of
the £llB million estimated last August
for the current fiscal year.
Everybody knows what happened.
Perhaps there would be little point in
still rapping Mr Holt were it not for
the fact that the economy has suffered
from the miscalculation, and also because
the Prime Minister has been saying that
the loan market will still be buoyant
next year. This is one matter on which
observers have become wary of minis-
terial statements, so it is as well to un-
derline the figures as they unfold from
Canberra itself. These used to be put in
the front of the Treasury Bulletin. This
year they’ve been relegated to the back.
Admittedly the proportionate amounts
used from the various sources of this
sort of finance have varied considerably
this year from the previous one, but the
total from all sources is the significant
figure. Observers will not therefore be
confused by the much heavier reliance
this year than last year on funds raised
by Treasury Note issues or by the lesser
reliance on Treasury Bill finance.
VTet finance raised on Treasury Notes
in the first nine months of this year
amounted to £142.9 million, compared
with only £86.1 million in the same
period of 1961-62. This year there has
been a net reduction of £66 million of
Treasury Bills as against an issue of £27
million of Treasury Bills in the first nine
months last year.
However, in his Budget Speech the
Treasurer explained that the banking
system would be a substantial contribu-
tor to Government loans this year as it
had been in the previous one and that
this would obviate some of the necessity
for short term borrowing by the Gov-
ernment, though not more than would be
required to achieve the £llB million
deficit. By the banking system he was
presumably referring to the trading
banks. But these appear to have contri-
buted substantially less to Government
loans during the first nine months this
year than in the same period 1961-62.
In fact, up to the end of March the
major trading banks increased their
holdings of Government securities (other
than Treasury Notes and Bills) by only
£63.2 million (from £352.3 to £415.5
million) this fiscal year compared with an


FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
PAID UP CAPITAL £775,000
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
• FIXED DEPOSITS
2 years .... p.a.
3 years and over 8% p.«.
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
• Members of the Stock Exchange
• ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z.
BANK
• The Registered Office of the
Company, William & Crown
Sts., Sydney. Telephone 31-0322
Financing the
distribution by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies of
world-famous
products
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
1 MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 27/3/63, giving full details of your terms
, deposits.
;name
! ADDRESS
I B i
HD63
increase of £l9O million (from £261 to
£451 million) in the previous fiscal year
to the end of March. What is more,
loans by the trading banks to the short
term money market dealers increased by
£4.6 million over the first nine months
last year whereas they were unchanged
after nine months this year.
This disposes of any argument that
the Government has been getting extra
assistance from the trading banks to
make up the huge oversubscriptions to
Government loans this year. We must
look elsewhere for the sources of these
oversubscriptions.
Tf Mr Holt was looking to the savings
banks, for instance, he has not been
disappointed there. Between July and
March 1961-62 they increased their hold-
ings of Commonwealth and State se-
curities by £34.5 million. Over the same
period this financial year the increase
was no less than £6l million. (At the
same time they added £61.2 million to
their holdings of local and semi-Gov-
ernment securities in the first nine
months this year as against only £27.5
million in the same period of the pre-
vious year).
Incidentally, the Government’s 70 p.c.
rule for savings banks has had more
prolific results for Government loans
than would appear to be the case with
its 30/20 rule for life companies, at
least on the showing of the latter up to
December last. Of the total increase of
£106.4 million in their assets during the
calendar year 1962 only £37.1 million
was invested (net) in Government securi-
ties and £6.2 million in semi-Govern-
ments and local authority loans.
While the proportion was well above
the 30 p.c. minimum, the total amount
was well below the amount put into
official loans by the savings banks. In
this context it would be interesting to
have some overall figures from superan-
nuation funds.
But, as with subscriptions to Govern-
ment loans from the captive life com-
panies and superannuation funds which
have also toed his line with due obedi-
ence, the specific reference in the Bud-
get speech to loan subscribers likely to
boost bond subscription to the minimis-
ing of short term raisings was not to the
savings banks. In that context the Treas-
urer was referring to the trading banks.
hard truth of the matter is that
the Treasurer’s devices for capturing
the life companies and superannuation
funds, coupled with the long standing
rules for savings banks to contribute
70 p.c. of their funds to Government,
semi-Government and local authority
loans, have succeeded only too well when
coupled with the generally cautious at-
| titude towards investment in general,
I the maintenance of high bond rates and
the general stability of prices. (The ab-
sence of inflation is in itself a bull point
for bonds). This has made a mockery of
all his Budget sums.
This is not to say that, given the
Government’s requirement of stability,
the whole object of his Budget has been
defeated by the Treasurer’s miscalcula-
tions, as some critics have been saying.
For all the nonsense of the Budget
figures and the small boost given by
deficit finance, the economy has been
lifted to a considerably higher level of
activity since the Budget was framed last
year.
However, because of the failure of
the authorities to take a realistic view of
the possibilities for loan raising last year
any view the Government may make
breezily public on the likely harvest from
the loan market next year can be taken
with a grain of salt.


Piping the Oil Changes
TTlhe Moonie oil pipeline now will ter-
minate at Lytton, right next to Am-
pol's proposed £2l million refinery on
the southern or mainland side of the
Brisbane River. Amoco sits like a jilted
lover on Bulwer Island, in the middle of
the Brisbane River.
Amoco still has the plaque unveiled
by the Queen to commemorate the dis-
covery of oil and, at that time, to mark
the site where the Moonie oil pipe-
line would terminate (and presumably
flow into Amoco's refinery). But every-
one reckoned without Ampol’s wheeling
and dealing which will re-route the pipe-
line to the southern mainland. Ampol,
as a crowning gesture, has sold 25 of its
550 acres at Lytton to Moonie Pipeline
Co. Pty Ltd.
Amoco is said to be having plenty of
trouble with putting down its foundations
on the soggy Bulwer Island. Its luck
hasn't been the best since the project
started, so it wouldn’t surprise to hear
that the island sank into the Brisbane
River. The problem of getting good
foundations for a tank farm also was a
factor influencing the pipeline switch.
It is to be hoped that plenty of oil
finds its way through that Moonie pipe-
line, thus justifying at least two refineries
in Brisbane. Meanwhile, the initial
Moonie production figures quoted by
Union Oil’s resident manager, Mr Doyle
Graves, at 7,000 to 10,000 barrels a day
by February, hardly would keep the pipe-
line at its full capacity of 50,000 barrels
a day.
Asa common carrier, the pipeline is de-
signed to accommodate the produc-
tion from other nearby oilfields. Cer-
tainly it is hoped that Moonie will not be
the only oil province. If Moonie flows at
the higher estimate of 10,000 barrels a
day, it will provide 3,650,000 barrels a
year. Ampol, on its original estimates,
could handle four times this amount at
its proposed refinery.
So the pipeline and the two refineries
in Brisbane have been planned on the
basis that there will be at least another
three Moonie oilfields to supply their
needs.
Union-Kern has not made a deal
with Ampol. It will sell the oil to the
highest bidder and certainly will extend
the pipeline across the river to Amoco if
and when necessary.
The limits of the Moonie field, as yet,
have not been defined. And Union-Kern
has said all along that it will take at
least until the end of 1963 before it can
evaluate Moonie properly. But already
calculations are being made from the
upper estimates of the projected pipe-
line flow, which suggest a 20 years’ sup-
ply totalling 73 million barrels at
Moonie, based on possible pipeline pro-
duction of 10,000 barrels a day.
Inevitably (although this has been cal-
culated and published before) it is
claimed that it would be impossible to
obtain a profit of £1 per barrel of oil
after paying 10 p.c. royalty, pipeline
charges and production costs. If the
Union-Kern-AOG group did make a
profit of £1 per barrel on 73 million
barrels in 20 years, it is still short of the
recent market valuation of the Moonie
field of around £75 million. This valua-
tion is based on AOG’s market price and
its 20 p.c. share of the net profits (i.e.
market value of its issued capital mul-
tiplied by five).
Already AOG directors are talking
about paying a dividend in a couple of j
years. But 20 p.c. of net profits is 20 p.c.
of what? |
Are Union Oil and Kern County so
anxious to rush out with taxable profits i
when there is so much to amortise on j
plant, exploration, etc? And they are
not likely to cease exploration activities
now that they have encouraged oil to
flow.
Union Oil Development is busy with
its job in Queensland and has indicated
it will not go ahead with the arrangement
with AOG in joint exploration of AOG
leases in the northern Sydney basin area.
(But Union Oil will come south into
NSW to explore the bottom end of the
Surat Basin.)
This means that any exploration acti-
vity undertaken by AOG in other areas
must come out of its own pocket . . .
These various activities could be capi-
talised, of course. But there will be
plenty of continuing expenses to charge
OIL PIPELINE TO BRISBANE


CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of
New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Qkl
PER ANNUM
■ $ TO 10 YEARS
also available
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
Rates from 6% p.a. for
6 months to B£% p.a. for
4 to 10 years.
Full details of these issues will be found in the Company's
Prospectus which is available at all branches of the
Company's Bankers, the Bank of New South Wales,
any Member of the Stock Exchange, or any office of
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited
Applications may be made only on the forms attached
to the Prospectus.
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George St., Sydney. Phone: 27-8621
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • WAGGA 0 MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE
CC 162/AB
against the 20 p.c. cut it gets from
Union-Kern’s profits.
So far, all this speculation relates to
the overall exploration programme which
has uncovered only one oilfield. There is
every prospect, however, that Union-
Kern in Queensland will uncover another
oil bearing area. And AOG has plenty
of other areas which could provide a
commercial field.
AOG shares have been a little weak
because of the proposed investment of
about £lm. in the Moonie pipeline for a
20 p.c. working interest. Fears of a new
issue are uppermost. But the company
may still have enough cash left over
from the last share issue.
There also has been some talk that
the re-routing of the Moonie pipeline
will involve extra expense, by extending
its length. The length is about the same
189 miles. It is understood that, by
coming in from the southern side of the
Brisbane River the pipeline will avoid
certain built-up areas, thus eliminating
problems of right-of-way.
Stanford Men to
Lecture Here
All those concerned about the
standards of top management in
this country will congratulate the Aus-
tralian Institute of Management on the
arrangements it has made with Stanford
University, of USA.
Several professors from the Stanford
Business School are to give advanced
courses here in August. Stanford ranks
almost with the distinguished and widely
known Harvard school.
Contemporary business conditions are
demanding a much higher level of
executive skill than at present generally
prevails throughout Australia. And over-
seas business does not regard the train-
ing given by schools like Stanford and
Harvard as merely “theoretical.”
OIL DOWN, GAS UP
Production of crude oil in Italy fell
from 1.972,000 tons in 1961 to
1,806,000 tons in 1962. Natural gas out-
put rose from 80,780 million cubic feet
to 84,167 million cubic feet.
Virtually all crude oil is produced in
Sicily and most of the natural gas in the
Po Valley.
Electronic Computer Network
CSIRO is setting up a £1 ! million net-
work of electronic computers to
speed research in Commonwealth, State,
and university laboratories.


Largest underwriter of life insurance in the Southern Hemisphere
AUSTRALIA'S
mm
OFFICE
No.
ISSUES NEW POLICIES
at the rate of
MILLION A DAY!
INCREASES ASSETS
at the rate of
MILLION A WEEK!
POINTS FROM THE 1962 ANNUAL REPORT
TOTAL INCOME £96,854,000
PAYMENTS TO POLICYHOLDERS .... .... £33,605,000
REVERSIONARY BONUSES £46,628,000
WHY THE PUBLIC IS TURNING TO LIFE INSURANCE
Reporting record new business to the Annual Meeting
of Members of the Society in Sydney, the Chairman
of the Principal Board, Mr. C. G. Crane, said: “The
Society was once again the largest underwriter of life
insurance business in the Southern Hemisphere. The
general climate for life insurance in Australia and
New Zealand was extremely favourable during 1962.
More and more people recognised that investment in
life insurance offers security and protection whereas
recent experiences have shown the fallibility of some
other forms of savings and investment.
“Moreover, life insurance policies now offer a much
more attractive investment return than for many
years past. Higher yields are available because
improved investment earnings have enabled life
offices to improve their scale of bonus distribution
and because the taxation concessions available in
respect of premium payments make the effective
return on life policies after tax especially favourable.”
Referring to the success of A.M.P. Fire and
General Insurance Company, the Chairman said:
“We are finding that more and more policyholders are
electing to place all their insurance requirements,
life or non-life, through the A.M.P. In doing so they
are assisting the economies of Australia and New
Zealand because the placing of their insurance with
locally based companies avoids the loss of foreign
exchange which is inevitable where the services of
overseas insurance companies are utilised.”
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE. Offices in cities and towns throughout Australia and New Zealand and in the United Kingdom.
RIB7G


The Golden Chains That Bind
Shareholders of Amalgamated Chemi-
cals doubtless feel a little more at
ease now that they have received a
full and open explanation of some very
generous payments made to directors.
To begin with, the board deserves
every commendation for having dealt
so frankly with questions raised at the
annual meeting, held on April 8. All in
all, it may be agreed that directors “have
acted in the company’s interest in every
case.”
They even bring the complete relief
of assuring shareholders that “your
company no longer has any profit-shar-
ing contracts in existence.”
The payments in question embraced
a rather wider range than just profit-
sharing, including as they did retirement
allowances and sums under contracts
not to compete with the company after
retirement. It must be admitted they
needed a keen and inquisitive eye to
fossick out.
None but the initiate or the hyper-
curious would attempt to translate the
esoteric wording “elimination of con-
tractual commitments of a capital nature,
£157,500” contained among the notes
to the balance sheet.
It is at this point that shareholders of
other successful companies can start to
wonder what they are missing. Without
wishing to judge these practices in any
way, it must be admitted that they are
rife, and secret, throughout business.
Such perquisites, or “fringe” benefits,
must be faced as part of the facts of
commercial life. At the very least,
though, directors of all companies op-
erating these schemes should be able to
re-assure shareholders that their size and
generosity bear some realistic relation
to the prosperity of the company as a
whole.
Not so very long ago it was permis-
sible to remark how odd a web of
service agreements, commissions and
bonuses at Ready Mixed Concrete
looked against a declining earning rate.
And it took a storm on the board to
bring these to light.
But again, it is not necessarily the
concealment that is criticised. There is
frequently every reason for a company
not to allow its rivals to discover the
kind of agreements it makes with top
and skilful executives. They are often not
getting a straight-out salary or board fee
alone.
The assessment of extras calls for an
uncanny sense of proportion and a
heightened sense of responsibility to
shareholders.
In the event, Amalgamated Chemi-
cals’ arrangement with its present chair-
man and managing director, the largest
of the present payments, looked quite
reasonably geared. As a retiring allow-
ance from general managership of all
operating subsidiaries, it was related to
both capital and profits, not to profits
by themselves.
Most importantly, and thereby furni-
shing a true incentive, this agreement
was made before the person in question
joined the company. Services obtained
after long negotiation needed a fitting
inducement. The form of profit-sharing
adopted certainly gave this.
To quote directly from the Amalga-
mated Chemicals’ statement: “It was ar-
ranged that for the first £lOO,OOO capi-
tal of the company, a profit of £30,000
had to be available for the shareholders
before any bonus would be paid to Mr
Wilson.
“He was to receive 10 p.c. of all
profits over £30,000. This figure was to
be adjusted if capital was increased.
“For every additional £lOO,OOO
capital the base figure required as profit
was to be increased by £20,000. For a
capital of £200,000 no bonus would be
paid on the first £50,000 of profit, but
out of all profit above this Mr Wilson
would receive 10 p.c. The profit figure
used in the calculation was to be the
profit before tax.”
No one could predict that the profits
concerned before this agreement was ter-
minated would leap from £20,148 to
£515,416. Last year’s profit reached
£754,287.
In a last analysis, Amalgamated
Chemicals comes fairly cheaply and
beneficially out of the cancellation pro-
cess. All amounts concerned have been
re-invested in the company’s shares “at
the full market valuation.”
Some £70,000 of capital at face value
wipes out commitments totalling
£216,300 and will in future call for
yearly dividends only.
LNC in Thick of Boom
■VTolkswagen and Rover distributor
* LNC Industries Ltd continues in
the thick of the motor vehicle boom, for
directors still report profits running at a
“satisfactory” level.
Shareholders will remember that the
formal interim statement late in January
mentioned profits to December “substan-
tially in excess of the profits for the cor-
responding period of the previous year.”
That full 1961-62 year had seen a
£22,370 earnings decline to £106,216,
which failed to cover a 121 p.c. dividend.
A decent currency recovery could soon
bring back the 15 p.c. rate paid in 1960
and 1961, especially on the projected
reduced capital.
Directors expect to make this pre-
viously announced capital return “as
close as can be to October 21.” The
move involves paying off all first prefer-
ence shares; extinction of 2s. 6d. unpaid
the world of business
"Who said 'No'!!?"


Needing plant, equipment, vehicles?
SAVE
YOUR CAPITAL!
Don’t buy it—lease it from Mercantile
Credits Ltd. There’s no need for busi-
ness and professional men to tie up
capital . . . not even a penny. Choose
your car, fleet of vehicles, cranes, bull-
dozers, excavators, plant, and equip-
ment. Mercantile Credits Ltd. buy them
and lease them to you on a monthly
rental Lease Plan. You’ll do far better
with Mercantile Credits Ltd.
Consider what you’ll save. Mercantile
Credits Ltd. also help you with hire
purchase finance, mortgage funds, and
company loans. Talk over your finan-
cial needs with an executive of Mer-
cantile Credits Ltd.
BEFORE YOU SIGN ANY FINANCE AGREEMENT
IT IS TO YOUR ADVANTAGE TO CONTACT
MERCANTILE CREDITS LTD.
ALL UNDER
ONE ROOF!
Keep all your business—
leases, hire purchase,
mortgage and loans with
Mercantile Credits Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
10-14 Underwood St., Sydney.
BRANCHES:
118 Queen Street, Melbourne.
301 Ann Street, Brisbane.
329 King William St., Adelaide.
115 St. George’s Ter., Perth.
33 Ainslie Ave., Canberra City.
ny/«i
capital on the ss. contributings; and re-
payment of 2s. 6d. of the ss. fully paids.
The contributings, at present paid to
25., must first be pulled into line by cal-
ling up 6d. capital and 9d. premium.
Notices are to go out on June 16 for
the Is. 3d. payable on July 1.
The Skin Game
"Outchers’ supplier Colbro Holdings
Ltd should be assured of success
with its fairly modest public flotation. A
few eyebrows may perhaps be raised at
the 6d. premium on the 200,000 ss.
ordinaries being offered.
The issue is fully underwritten by
Sydney broker Ralph W. King and Yuill.
Ordinary capital will be brought up to
£101,250, on which a 10 p.c. dividend
is promised. The existing £51,000 7i
p.c. preference capital converts to
ordinaries at par on July 1, 1968.
On adjusted December half-year
profits, earning rate is running at 18.5
p.c. The last full year showed 17 p.c.
The company supplies wholesale and
retail butchers and smallgoods makers
with requirements other than meat. New
premises are to be acquired near the
Homebush Abattoirs at a cost, with
necessary alterations, of about £60,000.
Net tangible assets backing (includ-
ing the issue proceeds) stands just under
ss.
David Murray Payoff
VTot all news is bad on the sick de-
benture front. The medicos hand-
ling the affairs of David Murray Hold-
ings Ltd, South Australian member of
the unhappy Reid Murray family, say
the patient is breathing quite well.
In fact, debenture holders in David
Murray Holdings Ltd will receive 13s.
4d. in the £ during May, including in-
terest up to April 30.
The Bankers and Traders Insurance
Co. Ltd, trustee company for David
Murray debenture holders, indicates
there are good prospects for full repay-
ment to debenture holders. Final payment
is expected before the end of June.
It will be some time before Reid Mur-
ray’s affairs are straightened out, and
litigation is likely. Reid Murray
debenture holders can take some heart
from the David Murray example, but
there is plenty of wood to be cleared
before they can see the trees.
More Details Needed
A n unrevealing interim report from
once-splendiferous plywood maker
Ralph Symonds Ltd will not add to the
gaiety of shareholders, who must face
a £4OOO half-year’s loss, no dividend
and directors’ statement that “sales for
the current half-year have shown no
improvement.”
Some reassurance on stocks, for in-
stance, could justly have been demanded,
if only to replace the vague “there is
reason to anticipate, however, that the
position should progressively improve.”
Pre-report selling pressure brought the
ss. shares back to a new low of 3s. 6d.
Further trading has to cope with strong
rumors of a takeover on the wing
from the august CSR with the benefits
of Symonds’ real estate and factory in
mind.
Mr D. York Syme Passes
*The house of Syme loses another valu-
A able and respected member with the
death of Mr David York Syme, chair-
man of Melbourne Steamship Co. Ltd
and a director of The National Bank of
Australasia. He was also a great plugger
to keep the Mount Lyell mine open when
he was on the board.


Why Has BHP Got
the Blues?
HThe share market, recovering valiantly
A in many sections, is reluctant to
boost the price of Australia’s leading
industrial, BHP, despite its recent
increase in dividend.
Is Australia facing up to a new
experience? The inability to lift prices
for a stock whose issued capital is
£112.7 million!
Think of it for a moment. At any
given time there must be many sellers
of this stock who require immediate
funds . . . deceased estates, people who
want to sell shares to buy a new car, to
travel overseas, or any one of a hundred
reasons.
This is a big market for a big com-
pany. Most other industrial shares fade
by comparison. And if overseas sellers
dump large parcels on the market, there
are not too many enthusiastic buyers to
absorb the offerings.
In essence, BHP is a grown-up stock
with a huge capital. And Australians
must adjust their thinking to a market
of 112.7 million shares. It takes a huge
weight of money to lift a market like
that.
Orders for 200, 1000 or even 5000
shares are a drop in the bucket, par-
ticularly when it costs £520 plus broker-
age to bid for 200 shares. It would be
a different story for a company whose
capital is a mere £250,000. This adjust-
“The advertisement is a credit to you, Pinthrop-
absolutely perfect. Let's change it!"
ment of values must apply not only to
the investment public but to the direc-
tors of BHP.
In a nation of 10! million people,
only a small proportion of these people
are investors. And there are many
demands for their money. An available
market of 112.7 million shares may be
a little rich for the digestion of Aus-
tralian investors, particularly when the
dividend yield is only 2.7 p.c.
BHP claims to have 80,000 share-
holders on its books. Many of these are
permanent holders, including institutional
investors. How many extra people,
therefore, are available to absorb BHP
shares when they come onto the market?
The institutions are continually invest-
ing surplus funds but they must give
some consideration to dividend income.
Consider, also, that BHP has issued
£2l!m. of debenture capital to the
public, thus absorbing more funds.
At the moment, therefore, BHP is
absorbing, in market terms, £293m. of
public money plus £2l !m. in deben-
tures subscribed at par. It costs a
premium of £5 10s. to £9 to buy those
debentures.
Capacity to pay is an important con-
sideration in economic statistics. So it is
interesting to pose a question, at this
stage: How many people have the
capacity (or willingness) to pay for BHP
at the moment to yield 2.7 p.c.?
Without some real spark of enthusiasm,
probably led by institutional or over-
seas investors, the shares seem destined
for the moment to wallow in the trough
of a market that appears to be too big
for the investment population. A humili-
ating thought when £ 1,900 m. lies in
savings banks.
Sheetmetal Dents
Oheetmetal engineer W. C. Stevens
(Holdings) looks like having to
mar a three-year 10 p.c. dividend record.
Interim payment for the half-year to
March 31 has gone back from 5 to 4 p.c.
The company has kept both produc-
tion and sales at quite high levels (as
forecast last November), yet has found
very competitive trading eating into
profit margins. Two subsidiaries, W. C.
Stevens (Vic.) Pty and the recently
acquired heating engineer G. R. Gayfer,
“did not contribute towards profit.”
The holding company met a 10 p.c.
rate even in 1961, when group earnings
went back £20,571. Last year saw
partial recovery of £11,749.
Directors sound a little unconfident
about a return to what they call normal
trading. Most of the group’s products go
to appliance makers, some of whom are
also facing marketing problems.
Stevens’ shares have held moderately
over the last two years, with a top at
7s. 6d. and lows around 7s. 3d. On the
latest news the droop to 6s. 9d. seems
justified.
Vague Development
Dome real-estate developers are still
trying to catch the future by the
tail and remain capable of furnishing
shocks for shareholders in the process.
Witness the once resplendent Savoy
Corporation. Directors were open
enough to inform last December’s annual
meeting that no interim dividend would
be paid in the current year. That, of
course, took some doing after an ascend-
ing process starting at 7 p.c. in 1957
and culminating in 12! p.c. for both
1961 and 1962.
But the board has not been especially
revealing with its latest half-yearly
report. More could have been heard of
the company’s necessary attempt “to
liquefy and consolidate its existing in-
vestments,” as the chairman (Mr. A. G.
Whelan) put it in December.
It did not seem enough to be told of
the first site sale at the Queensfield (Bris-
bane) Industrial Park, albeit the sale was
to Humes. Similar industrial develop-
ment is planned for Melbourne, while
negotiations are in train “in respect of
several other sites in other Australian
cities.”
The ss. shares will probably stay
around 3s. 6d. for some time.


HOW TO USE
PUTS AND CALLS
Sensible Speculation
Speculative opportunities for profits
with LIMITED risk, through know-
ledgeable use of PUT and CALL
Share Options, are numerous and
available daily. You have but to
scan a newspaper's stock market
page and note the price changes in
many of even the highest quality
stocks to verify the regular occur-
rences of such opportunities.
Write, phone or post coupon today for further details.
To MONTGOMERY, HUGHES & CO. PTY. LTD.,
324 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Phone: 26-1024.
Please send further information to:
Name
Address
A New Face
on Coal
Australia’s biggest independent coal
producer, Coal and Allied Industries
Ltd, should soon have the opportunity
of showing a more decided lift in profit
than distinguished 1961-62. Nothing too
dramatic, perhaps, can be expected for
the current year ending June 30.
Thereafter, however, a progressively
improving sales position should begin to
exert its influence.
The traditional habits of the group’s
controlling shareholders, Howard Smith
and Adelaide Steamship, have imposed
a fair amount of reticence on past state-
ments. But recently the chief general
manager (Sir Edward Warren) painted
a reasonably open picture of coming
prospects.
With so much uncertainty hovering
about coal exports, it was good to learn
that any fall here would be more than
offset by increased local requirements.
Coal and Allied’s new Chain Valley Col-
liery is to supply a largish portion of
the voracious demands of the huge Vales
Point power station under long-term con-
tract, while Liddell Colliery has gained
a contract with the Australian Gas
Light Co. for 1963 and 1964.
Further, Sir Edward was able to sound
less gloomy on the twin enemies of
dieselisation and oil in the Cessnock-
Maitland area, where encouraging coal
orders are being won.
Even the export situation does not
appear quite so stubborn as some observ-
ers make it. The company’s forward con-
tracts with Japan guarantee a basic ton-
nage, any increases depending on recov-
ery in that country’s industry.
“Most recent reports from our Tokyo
office indicate that the low point of the
recession has been passed . . . and in
fact inquiries had been received in the
last few days concerning additional busi-
ness,” Sir Edward says.
The ss. shares now sell around Bs. 9d.
to yield 5.7 p.c. on the assured 10 p.c.
dividend. Notably conservative accounts
have so far kept earning rate only slight-
ly above payout requirements.
The shares have touched 9s. 2d. this
year and reached 11s. in 1962. Prevailing
levels should take some notice of the
latest report.
Glow From DFC
A n aura of investment prestige always
surrounds Development Finance
Corporation. In this year’s very coolly
played market the 20s. shares have al-
ready added Bs. to reach 91s.
During the more excitable 1960 days
a peak of £5 10s. was attained, barely
a year after listing.
Dealings, of course, are never hectic
now. Acceptance of the new 10 p.c.
dividend rate was received with dignity,
for each year has seen a lift from the
initial 6} p.c.
Shareholders, too, could calmly ab-
sorb directors’ statement that profits for
the December half-year were lower than
for the corresponding part of 1961.
Symptomatic of recent business hesita-
tion, income from capital provision
activities showed substantial decrease.
DFC is commendably quiet about its
extensive and efficient ramifications, in
accord with the habits of most of its
exalted overseas associates. But share-
holders need not worry that it won’t
be ready to assist a more vigorous Aus-
tralian economy with capital provision
and in other near merchant-banking
ways.
At current prices the shares yield a
blue-ribbon 2.1 p.c., with earnings yield
at 6.9 p.c.
AUC Expertise
A USTRALIAN UNITED CORPORATION’S
dismemberment of a goodly portion
of its recently acquired Sargood Gardiner
assets was accomplished with dispatch
and finesse. Such operations are a fore-
taste of what our rapidly developing
merchant banking houses can do.
When AUC clearly defeated F. W.
Williams in the Sargood takeover,
observers hardly felt that its ambition
was to guide the old softgoods whole-
saler into more lucrative days. First sus-
picions were that Sir lan Potter’s com-
pany was bidding on behalf of another
party.
In the event it may have had its cus-
tomers for the spoils well in mind.
Sargood’s Flinders Lane (Melbourne)
Freehold has been snapped up by the
Herald and Weekly Times for £450,000,
happily allowing a natural extension of
the Herald’s present building. The soft-
goods stock goes to Cox Bros, for a sum
of about £lm.
Most interesting, perhaps, seems the
disposal of Sargood’s book debts. These
(£377,477 at June 30 last) are passed on
to Australian Factors Ltd, in which
AUC owns a 24 p.c. interest.
The factoring company has lately re-
ported that turnover keeps on rising as
rapidly as it is able to arrange borrow-
ings. The AUC connection should be
able to provide no lack of short-term
funds to aid the process.
Investors may be drawn to Australian
Factors’ shares. Present levels at 12s. 6d.
will probably creep ahead. At this price,
yield on the 12} p.c. dividend is 5 p.c.
New Life For Peko
A nnouncement by Peko-Wallsend In-
vestments Ltd that it will develop
a new copper and gold prospect explains
the recent strong support for the shares
prior to the announcement.
Available information does not suggest
the presence of a large ore body, the
company reports. But by the time mil-
ling commences by June 1965 at this
new Ivanhoe mine (19 miles from Peko),
further testing may prove additional ore.
With 45,000 tons of ore coming out
of Orlando and 185,000 tons sched-
uled as the combined extraction of ore
from Peko and Ivanhoe, mining opera-
tions at least have a prospective longer
life than formerly expected.
A Quiet Future
TA/Tiller and foodstuffs maker Clifford
Love and Co. goes on its incon-
spicuous way with “satisfactory” pros-
pects and an unchanged interim divi-
dend at 3t p.c. Full payment has stayed
84 p.c. since 1959. The ss. shares are low-
ish at Bs. 4d. to yield 5.1 p.c.


Aberfoyle’s Hopes and Fears
A lthough Aberfoyle Tin reports all is
going well in the exploration and
development of Ardlethan and the Tin
Development partnership, the high world
pressure, notably from increasing sup-
plies from Communist countries, on
tungsten prices has forced it to adjust
operations at its major producing areas
in favor of expanding tin output.
In the six months to February 2 this
year output of tungsten dropped heavily
at Aberfoyle and Storey’s Creek, where-
as the total of tin concentrates from
these two mines and the Dorset Tin
division was only slightly lower at 562
tons compared with 571 tons for the
like period last year.
Hit by lower tungsten prices and
output, and also getting a lower average
price for its tin in the period, Aberfoyle’s
earnings would appear to have suffered,
though no figures are given in the in-
terim report.
However, the report says the price of
tin is comparatively stable and even
showing a rising tendency. The United
States surplus stockpile has been exert-
ing a depressing effect, but against this
Aberfoyle thinks that rising world tin
consumption “may tend to lift prices”
and these should be maintained in the
range £B5O-£9lO sterling in the current
year.
The present London price is around
£9OO sterling. On the other hand it
considers the outlook bleak for tungsten
prices. Presumably this will take some
of the gilt from Aberfoyle’s gingerbread,
but directors say they’re hoping for a
leavening from “improved tin production
and lower operating costs.”
“Earningg as Planned”
only discordant note in Mr E.
A Christensen’s otherwise very cosy
interim report to his fellow shareholders
in Peters Ice Cream (Vic) was that one
of the many subsidiaries of this still
expanding food business recently met
with some unexpected production diffi-
culties. Happily, though, these difficul-
ties in the unnamed subsidiary have been
resolved and “earnings for the full year
are expected to be as planned.”
Apart from its acquisition of Tas-
manian Ice Cream Pty Ltd since Peters
last reported, the group has taken over
J. Hargreaves & Sons of Manly (Queens-
land) and R. E. Cam & Son. Nearer
home Peters recently acquired the But-
tercup group of ice cream companies
in Victoria. In Tasmania it is building
a new factory at Ulverstone to be ready
next May for the production of a new
version of potato chips.
Incidentally nothing from Mr Chris-
tensen on the proposed change of name.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Cleaning Up the Portfolio
last week’s onslaught, a
general order has been given to
review the ranks of my company. With
22 stocks on parade, a little bit of
pruning has become necessary. Each
platoon was inspected closely.
Platoon No. 1 was made up of those
uninspired stocks that just plodded along,
neither going up nor down. In this
group are Jacoby Mitchell, A. V. Jen-
nings, BHP, Kay Corporation and ANI.
Good hopes still exist for A. V. Jen-
nings and ANI. The others have been
given more than fair opportunity to
show some life. In quick succession
small losses of £l7 for Jacoby Mitchell,
£25 for BHP and £9 for Kay Cor-
poration were chalked up.
Platoon No. 2 has performed admir-
ably, despite its small size. This is the
Option platoon. Courtaulds, after the
dividend adjustment, is showing about
a 2s. rise. Another 9d. and it will have
passed the break-even point. There are
still two months to run. General In-
dustries, with over a month to go, is a
couple of pence on the right side of the
vital break-even point.
Platoon No. 3, consisting of the oil
stocks, is still in disgrace. The members
of this platoon are being reluctantly
retained, at least until the oil market
resumes a firm front. It’s necessary this
week to outlay £5O for the call on
Woodside.
Platoon No. 4 is an experimental
section made up of those stocks that
should show promise in the next month
or so. It is the largest platoon consisting
of the following stocks: Hooker 64
options, Philip Morris, Aust. Factors
(Vic.), Amagraze, Felt Rts., LNC ctg.
and Waugh & Josephson. All could
prove remunerative.
Lastly is Platoon No. 5, the pride of
the company. There are some blank
spaces where such fallen heroes as Holy-
man Woods and Harden and Johnston
once stood. It still includes the current
distinguished stocks Hanimex, David
Jones notes, Bennett & Wood, Ferris
ctg. and Fairymead.
Ferris ctg., a relative newcomer to
the company, has already given splendid
service. At 2s. 4d. it had more than
served its purpose, especially when com-
pared with the senior member of the
family, Ferris fully paid shares at 4s. Bd.
The profit of £l6 partly offsets earlier
losses.
As for star performer Fairymead, it
was very tempting to have these earlier
losses more than matched in one grand
sweep.
At 51s. they would have given a hand-
some profit. Then on Thursday came the
fire at Townsville disrupting all these
well-laid plans. It became now a matter
of wait and see.
It will not help CSR shares. If the
market marks the shares down too
heavily, CSR will re-enter the portfolio.
At the moment William Adams is
making its debut into the portfolio.
Known best as a steel merchant, it has
three other major interests: the mer-
chandising division, the engineering
division and the tractor subsidiary which
has the Caterpillar tractor and Hyster
truck agencies in both Victoria and
Tasmania.
Always a highly regarded company,
the fall in earning rate from 26.4 p.c.
in 1961 to 7.0 p.c. in 1962 was a tem-
porary disaster. Not since 1949 has the
profit been so small. And the company
then was only a third of its present size.
For those who retained their faith in
the company, the interim report last
December was their reward. The profit
for the six months ending October 31
of £135,000 was £33,000 greater than
the entire profit for the previous year!
This earnings performance should be
at least equalled in the second half. The
net result would then be about a 20 p.c.
earning rate.
The only other share to join the ranks
was Functional Holdings. With its
result just about due and looking firm
at Bs. 3d., I bought 1000.
Transactions for this week were:
SOLD
200 BHP, 51/9 £5lO
500 Kay Corporation, 8/11 .... £2lB
400 Jacoby Mitchell, 14/5 £2BB
1000 Ferris ctg., 2/4 £ll2
BOUGHT
200 W. Adams, 42/3 £430
1000 Functional Holdings, 8/3 £424
What a week of activity! Despite all
that selling, I still have an £B3 debit in
the account.
My portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1500 Hanimex 23/5/62 6/9 8/11
1000 Courtaulds 0p.(14/-) 14/1/63 2/1
400 Fairymead 21/1/63 41/- 51/-
600 David Jones notes 21/1/63 17/3 19/6
3000 Hooker 64 options 23/1/63 1/- lid.
2000 Alliance 1/2/63 1/1 Bd.
1000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4 4/8
200 Philip Morris 14/2/63 34/6 33/9
400 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3 16/
600 A. V. Jennings 28/2/63 9/10 9/9
1000 Woodside ctg. 14/3/63 4/8 2/11
2000 Gen. Ind. op.(8/9) 20/3/63 lid.
1000 Aust. Factors, Vic. 27/3/63 8/6 9/3
500 Amagraze 8/4/63 7/6 8/-
1000 AN I 18/4/63 4/1 4/3
2000 Felt. rts. 24/4/63 3/3 3/-
2000 LNC ctg. 1/5/63 3/- 3/6
400 Waugh & Josephson 1/5/63 11/- 12/-
200 W. Adams 9/5/63 42/3 42/3
1000 Functional 7/5/63 8/3 8/5


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
IAC’s Momentous Ventures
Oevival of activity in the motor
industry contributed to the improve-
ment in trading results of lAC (Hold-
ings) Ltd. But there were other reasons
for the declared profit increase from
£1,751,975 to £2,559,205 in 1962.
A change in balance dates of the sub-
sidiary, Ajax Insurance Co. Ltd and its
subsidiaries, brought an extra six months’
profit (£259,921) into the year ended
December 31. A further £207,127 was
brought in as a result of adjustments
made necessary due to past differences
in balancing dates.
All members of the group now will
rule off their books on December 31.
The year 1962 was momentous for the
joint ventures into business beyond hire-
purchase finance.
lAC joined (on a 50-50 basis) with
Commercial and General Acceptance
Ltd to rescue Chevron Queensland Ltd,
which was owned largely by Stanhill
Consolidated Ltd. Chevron Queensland
had been profitable, but was restricted
in its building programme by lack of
funds.
The joint takeover involved lAC in
the issue of £119,979 of ordinary
capital and payment of cash.
An interest was acquired in the large
Melbourne real estate concern, T. M.
Burke Pty Ltd, by investing in the
parent company H. F. Holdings Pty.
This is 50 p.c. owned, the balance being
held by L. J. Hooker Investment Cor-
poration Ltd and Hooker Finance Ltd.
A 39} p.c. shareholding was obtained
in the Brisbane suburban development
company, Centenary Estates Ltd. L. J.
Hooker and Hooker Finance together
hold 39f p.c., and the public holds the
balance (20T p.c.). Dividends are not
expected from this investment until the
development reaches a more advanced
stage. But there are immediate profits
to be derived from financing land sales,
etc.
lAC also built three home unit
blocks as another means of diversifica-
tion.
A one-for-three bonus was made in
August, influencing a reduction in
dividend rate from 16} to 11} p.c. Net
effect was a cut in shareholders’ income.
Dividend will need to be raised to 12}
p.c. to restore their income to its former
level.
Hire-purchase contracts and personal
loans accounted for four times the
amounts receivable on mortgages, as at
December 31. Total amounts due and
to mature under current contracts and
other amounts receivable (less pro-
visions) rose from £84,474,947 to
£89,927.193.
Income yet to mature was £12,897,760,
compared with £12,602,621 in 1961.
Unearned income on hire purchase was
calculated by the rule of 78, an accepted
method for short-term loans. An elec-
tronic computor calculated unmatured
income on mortgage and other long-
term loan transactions, using the true
rate of interest.
Hire-purchase finance companies are
taking steps to test the validity in the
High Court of Australia of legislation
in various States requiring duty to be
paid on hire-purchase contracts. In
1962, this duty cost lAC £399,790.
Volume of business written in the
opening quarter of 1963 is in excess of
that handled for the same period last
year, the chairman said in his annual
address.
The 14 p.c. interest held by the ANZ
Bank Ltd in IAC endows that company
with the prestige rating of bank-
backing.
Removing the special elements which
enlarged the latest year’s profit, the
group profit would be £2,092,157,
which represents an earning rate of 18.3
p.c. on the bonus-enlarged capital.
This gives the 5s. shares, now selling
around 12s. 4d., an earnings yield of 7 4
p.c. and an income return of 4.6 p.c.
There seems scope for improvement
above this price level, particularly if the
company shows signs of stepping up the
dividend rate.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
December 31 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 61915 77536 90164 86188 93408
Less current
liabilities 4919 5315 5787 6411 6114
56996 72221 84377 79777 87294
Investments 678 1881 244 2852 3779
Fixed assets 1273 1600 1703 1749 1718
58947 75702 86324 84378 92791
Deferred
liabilities 43546 59584 69912 67667 74516
Pref. capital 1000 1000 1000 1000 1000
Ord. capital 8100 8200 8200 8200 11093
Reserves 6301 6918 7212 7511 6182
58947 75702 86324 84378 92791
Depreciation 44 53 51 79 89
Taxation 1358 1127 1117 1192 1531
Net profit 2195 1818 ’687 1752 2559
Net profit for
ords. 2135 1758 1627 1692 2499
Dividend 1236 1367 1367 1367 1294
Surplus 899 391 260 325 1205
Earning rate 28.8 21.4 19.8 20.6 22 5
Dividend rate 16§ 16| 16§ 16? H3
Dividend yield (a) 5.2 5.9 6.4 6.2
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 10.7 13.3 13.2 13.2 —
High price (b) 17/- 17/10 18/4 14/- 16/-
Low price (b) 13/2 15/- 8/9 9/- 9/11
(a) End of April, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year f
FRED CLARK (HOLDINGS) LTD
Conservatism Pays Off
Clark (Holdings) Ltd was able
* to come through the credit squeeze
with an almost unblemished record be-
cause of a policy of most conservative
capital expenditure by subsidiaries, and
concentration on existing markets.
The company operates in a field which
was particularly susceptible to the
squeeze. It makes a wide range of
builders’ supplies used principally in
home building. These include stainless
steel sinks and tubs, kitchen cabinets,
gas fires, vitreous china plumbing fix-
tures, wall tiles and floor tiles.
It now has branches in every capital
city except Hobart, which is serviced
from Melbourne. It has 18 subsidiaries,
15 in New South Wales, two in Victoria
and one in the ACT.
The company was formed in 1951 to
acquire a group of related companies.
An issue of 100,000 ss. ordinary shares
at par and 25,000 20s. 6 p.c. preference
shares was made to qualify for Stock
Exchange listings. Paid up capital was
£125,000.
Since then issued capital has risen to
£330,875, due principally to the issue
of shares for takeovers. However, share-
holders received a one-for-five bonus in
1955. Since then the company has
issued to shareholders two lots of un-
secured notes both of which convert into
ordinary shares on maturity later this
year.


In May, 1958, it issued 278,000 ss.
notes on a one-for-two basis carrying 8
p.c. interest which convert into ordinary
shares at par at the end of May. In
November, 1959, another 538,500 ss.
notes carrying 8 p.c. interest were issued
again on a one-for-two basis. These con-
vert at par on December 17, and will
have the effect of lifting paid up capital
to £535,000.
Profit each year has given a wide
cover to the ordinary dividend payment.
Best year was 1959-60 when profit was
a record £76,674, equal to 38.9 p.c. on
capital. However, in the following year
profit was almost halved to £43,778
equal to 17.4 p.c.
This setback was due largely to losses
incurred by a newly acquired subsidiary.
These were quickly put right and the
following year, 1961-62, most of the set-
back was regained when profit rose to
£65,739, equal to 21.3 p.c. on capital
after preference charges of £l5OO.
Buoyant trading conditions continued
into the current year and it is likely the
previous record will be exceeded
probably substantially.
Should the present trading conditions
continue (and they appear almost certain
to do so) directors expect to have no
difficulty in paying a 15 p.c. dividend
on capital increased by the note con-
version. Ordinary dividend has been at
this rate every year since 1953-54 except
for the record 1959-60 year when the
company paid 20 p.c.
In a full year, a 15 p.c. payment would
require £80,250. However, as the
shares from the May conversion rank
for only one month’s dividend this year
and the December conversion for half
a year’s layout in 1963-64, even a
steady profit for the current year will
still give a good cover to the dividend
requirement.
However, the 1963-64 profit would
need to be about £85,000 and the 1964-
65 profit more than £lOO,OOO to give
shareholders a comfortable feeling. On
past history and current outlook the
company should be able to achieve these
targets.
The 1961-62 accounts show the com-
pany faced some liquidity problems
during the current year but generally
was in a sound condition. Principal
item was the repayment of loans totalling
£340,000, but as bank overdraft was
down considerably at June 30, raising this
amount should present no immediate
problem.
Stocks showed a rise during the year
due partly to a small takeover while
debtors were also up.
Reserves indicate the ability to make
a sizeable bonus issue as soon as earnings
justify. Capital reserves of £389,110
include £249,919 in share premiums
and £136,691 from revaluation of
assets. Total reserves and surplus profit
of £572,096 give a solid backing to the
current £330,875 ordinary capital but
it must be kept in mind that capital will
rise to £505,000 after the note con-
versions of May and December.
Subject to intangible items of
£■176,079 net tangible assets backing of
each 5s. ordinary share was 11s. 7d. at
June 30.
The shares are currently selling at
11s. 6d. to show a dividend yield of 6.5
p.c. and an earnings yield of 9.1 p.c.
They could go higher if profits keep
pace with the impending rise in ordinary
capital.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 46S 816 1177 1283
Less current liabilities 290 457 803 921
Working capital 178 359 374 362
Fixed assets 145 270 519 575
Inter co. balances 1 dr.38 8 dr.18
Intangibles 43 85 169 176
Investments — — —
367 S76 1070 1102
Represented by
Pref. capital 25 25 25 25
Ordinary capital 139 200 296 301
Loan funds 69 204 204 204
Capital reserves 11 89 379 389
Other reserves 123 158 166 183
367 676 1070 1102
Depreciation 14 17 21 22
Taxation 24 48 39 35
Net profit 46 77 44 66
Dividends 27 41 39 47
Surplus 19 36 5 19
Earning rate p.c. 26.6 38.9 17.4 21.3
Dividend p.c 15 20 15 15
Dividend yield (a) 5.1 5.5 6.2 5.8
High price (b) 16/- 22/- 16/- 15/-
Low price (b) 9/6 14/9 11/6 10/9
(a) End of October, month accounts presented,
fb) Calendar year.
MORLEY JOHNSON LTD
Outlook Still Not Bright
HHhe fortunes of furniture retailers
A follow closely those of the home-
building trade. It is not surprising, then,
that long - established Morley Johnson
Ltd should have experienced declining
profits in the past two years. And the
current outlook is still not bright.
The company began operations in
1905 and has occupied its present site
in George Street, Sydney, for just on
50 years.
Profit history, until recently, had been
good except for three losses during the
depression years. The present holding
company was formed in 1951 and made
a share issue to the public at par in 1953.
Up to that stage only the preference
capital had been listed.
Paid-up capital after the issue was
£307,324 in 20s. shares, including
50,000 7 p.c. prefs. Since then there has
been only one issue to shareholders
a one-for-five at par in 1955 which
lifted paid-up ordinary capital to
£308,789.
Although earning rate was not spec-
tacular, profit rose from £31,537 in
1957 to a record £58,234 in 1960.
However, in the following year sales
fell away and profit tumbled 43 p.c. to
£33,455, giving only a small cover to
the 8 p.c. dividend paid for the fifth
successive year.
The situation did not improve during
1961-62. Despite severe economies,
sales declined further and profit had
another fall (of 36 p.c.) to £21,343
which failed to cover the 8 p.c. dividend
requirement by £6860. Earning rate
was down from 9.7 p.c. to 5.8 p.c.
Sales have shown a slight pick-up since
June, but expenses are also up. Although
directors were sufficiently confident to
pay a steady 4 p.c. interim dividend,
they are not optimistic about prospects
for the remainder of the year.
The 1961-62 accounts showed the
effect of the falling off in business. Stocks
were virtually unchanged at £134,329
(up £1026) but trade debtors were down


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N YV. C. DRAPER. R. F. CORMIE,
G H. STEPHENS
(Members ol Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Ord. J. A. M. Minnett, M. A Gleeson-
VVhite, lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger
Members o/ the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft.
R. V Betts
Non-Member Partners
13-15 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
Tel. 25 5711. 25 6011. Telex 5243
Branches at:
150 Queen St., Melbourne
359-369 Queen St., Brisbane
Cables & Telegrams:
‘Orderley’ Sydney. Melbourne & Brisbane
from <£803,895 to £664,535. As the
company carries its own financing of
sales, the fall in the provision for un-
earned profit and interest, from £155,082
to £129,567, indicates even more clearly
the extent of the decline.
The company was able to reduce its
dependence on bank accommodation
(down from £198,681 to £47,889), but
short-term borrowings practically
doubled from £50,700 to £100,915.
Long-term liabilities include notes (re-
deemable in 1968) totalling £150,000
and mortgages of £162,425.
In 1958, the company revalued free-
hold properties, writing up the value
from £194,720 to £363,000, at which
figure it still appears in the books. The
surplus of £168,280 was credited to a
revaluation reserve account. Total
reserves and surplus profit, subject to
intangibles of £4625, give a net assets
backing of 43s. to each 20s. ordinary
share.
These shares are currently selling
around 16s. — 4s. below par — to show
a dividend yield of 10 p.c. and an earn-
ings yield of 7.2 p.c. For short-term
capital gain they appear fully priced, but
could be bought for a long-term specula-
tion if only on the score of acquiring
assets cheaply. The store might one day
prove attractive to the neighboring and
active Bebarfalds Ltd.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 1015 10S5 970 844
Less current liabilities 413 467 346 223
Working capital 602 618 624 621
Fixed assets 413 414 412 408
Intangibles 5 5 5 5
1020 1037 1041 1034
Represented by
Pref. capital 50 50 50 50
Ordinary capital 309 309 309 309
Capital reserves 170 170 170 170
Other reserves 176 194 199 192
Loan funds 315 314 313 313
1020 1037 1041 1034
Depreciation 7 7 7 6
Taxation 29 37 20 12
Net profit 54 58 33 21
Dividends 28 28 28 28
Surplus 26 30 5 —
Earning rate p.c. 16.3 17.7 9.7 5.8
Dividend p.c. 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0
Dividend yield
p.c. (a) 5.9 5.0 8.0 9.6
High price (b) 29/- 34/- 26/- 20/—
Low price (b) 20/- 25/6 18/9 16/6
(a) End of September, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
ONE TO BUY
Solid Building Stock
/Tbservant investors are becoming
aware that they can find adequate
returns and rewards among building
stocks, despite the still perceptible effects
of the credit squeeze and a relatively
slow upsurge in house construction.
After all, the worst victims in this
section were the developers and the big
materials companies, which moved too
speedily into diversification and giantism.
Caution remains in order here.
Many a smaller group, however, kept
reasonable work in hand and stayed fi-
nancially able to benefit from a more
expansive mood.
One of them is Sydney-based contrac-
tor Paynter and Dixon Industries Ltd,
whose shares seem rather cautiously re-
garded at present. The ss. units are sel-
ling around 15s. to yield 5 p.c. on
the 15 p.c. dividend paid since 1961.
Earnings yield stands at a comfortable
10.7 p.c.
Prices have been as high as 17s. 9d.
earlier in the year and reached 20s. 6d.
in 1962. Prospects do not seem to
justify the existing low level.
Directors may perhaps have left them-
selves open to a degree of misinterpreta-
tion by their carefully worded interim
report, made in mid-February. For the
half-year to December actual sales value
fell, though finalisation of previously
won contracts produced a higher
revenue.
Directors mentioned that the volume
of work in hand was less than work in
progress at February, 1962, though the
company was “currently negotiating a
number of acceptable contracts”. It is
understood that the order position now
looks much brighter with the company
holding plenty up its sleeve.
No difficulty should be experienced in
exceeding last year’s profit, which rose
a moderate £4431 to £118,768 to give a
32.8 p.c. earning rate on the well-ad-
justed £361,789 capital. Earning rate
has held above 30 p.c. since 1960. Even
after a two-for-five bonus in October,
1960, the dividend went up from 12i to
15 p.c. and appears to be in no peril
at the moment.
It may be that earnings must provide
the basis of most benefits in the near
future, for the 1961-62 balance sheet
showed total assets at £1,631,814 subject
to intangibles of £450,056 (excess over
par value of shares in subsidiaries
£449,850).
But reserves at £337,380 still appear
quite healthy, including £190,867 assets
revaluation and £30,000 contracts con-
tingency prudently established last year.
Profit and loss account stood at £245,024
on June 30.
The liquid position is notably strong,
to cover “regular progress payments to
sub-contractors and prompt payment to
suppliers of materials and services”. The
company has been completely free of
overdraft since 1957.
Paynter and Dixon possesses the orga-
nisational advantage of furnishing a full
range of building service the so-called
package deal. It can begin at site selec-
tion, pass through design, the calling of
tenders for sub-contracts, supervision and
so to the finished job. Activities extend
to all Australian States.
Clients during 1961-62 included such
prominent names as Gillette (Australia),
International Resistance, Moran and
Cato, Moulded Products, and Common-
wealth Industrial Gases.
The company’s obvious solidity could
constitute the most decisive element for
many investors at this precise moment.
Growth also will not be lacking as
quality building gathers pace.
Plastics v. Termites
T aboratory tests by the CSIRO have
shown that plastics in common use
vary greatly in their susceptibility to
attack by termites. No single plastic has
yet proved completely resistant to a
range of termites.
The amount of damage may be reduced
by the addition of insecticides, such as
dieldrin and aldrin, during manufacture,
but commercial application must await
further research on the toxic hazards of
plastics so treated, says the CSIRO.
An alternative approach is to harden
the plastic so that termites cannot easily
chew it. Surface hardening results in
reduced flexibility, but internal hardening
by the use of inert abrasive fillers such
as silica and zircon has given encourag-
ing results.


Legal Notices
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: DIANA MARGARET KUBELEC, late of
65 Wallpark Avenue, Seven Hills. TAKE
NOTICE that PAUL JOHN KUBELEC has filed
a Petition for Divorce (No. 964 of 1963) on
the ground of desertion. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry. Supreme Court, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
14th day of June, 1963, and obtain a copy of
the Petition and Notice of Petition without
charge from MESSRS. K. B. MORGAN & CO.,
Solicitors, of 46 Darcy Street, Parramatta. If
you do not wish to file an Answer but wish
to receive a copy of each document filed in
the proceedings you should file a Notice of
Address for Service on or before such date. —
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
A DIVORCE PETITION has been filed against
the undermentioned HARRY KENNETH
KIRBY, late of 10 Monksville Mansions, Temple
Fortune, London, England, who may apply to
the Divorce Registry, Somerset House, London
W.C. 2, England, for a copy of the Petition.
If within 12 weeks he has not communicated
with the Registry, the Court may hear the
case in his absence. B. LONG, Registrar.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: PERCIVAL JAMES BIRKS formerly of
Orange in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that IRENE NAOMI BIRKS
has filed a Petition for Divorce number 3760
of 1958 on the ground of habitual drunken-
ness and failure to support. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry. Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, in the State of New South Wales, on
or before the 21st day of June, 1963. A Copy
of the Petition may be obtained without
charge from MESSRS. PETER G. KEARNEY
& CO., Solicitors, 254 George Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: ANTHONY CHARLES DIBBS, late of
Caves Road Oberon, N.S.W. TAKE NOTICE
that GRACE BEULAH DIBBS has filed a
Petition No. 1462 of 1963 for divorce on the
grounds of separation and desertion. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in
the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 28th day of June, 1963, and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
Messrs. V. F. Gordon, John Wilson & Co.,
Solicitors, 122 William Street, Bathurst.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
THE ECONOMICS
OF AUSTRALIAN
INDUSTRY
edited by Alex Hunter
A book of remarkable value
A vital text and reference alike
for businessmen and students
and all who are concerned in
the structure and operation of
Australian industry.s6opages.
55/- from all booksellers
MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY PRESS
Feiffer
&mms, its
we m iw
m pm
ttcmm
ttomo
3lamiu6 ornm
FOR OUR
mop loom TO
THE R£AE CAUSE:
QUMELV&.
m me mizv to protect
rner pm image. wee,
wee mrwm 'ewe, & a
prcpuct. if m mew
ro mo'-mm it
0 mi vo oup enm
OF COUSUMSR RESEARCH.
mum me me tom
meAm m me
Ate OUR FIWIUGS.
rue public pirn
pence lAcme in
it p\ws ir overm
?mue,mw ABOUT
rOMMUWkM AW A
sop for meet ahp
mm^!
THAT 6WOT WKIW OF
?6hC6 THAT StlW OUR
FIWmF? meM THAT
people F/UP THC prfpara-
RArmFOßmenmiriMi
iteom rue em R&wto
THAT MH F&M PM- /F
/05’f?F 60/M6 t> MAfc£
PFACF PATCH PM WFVP6OT
TP MAKS IT £1 mCOim
number oM-Rsme wr me -
MOJT "HAWKS FOR PEACE."
WMBER TWO-REPLACE OUR.
PEACE COUNCILS WITH PEACE,
comkm-we catcall
Tm'peace corns':
number three - RETme
OUR PEACE WORKERS CALL
W TROUBLE shooters:
WJMOOR. POVR-PUTOOTfi SFRIEO OF
'<W/\KI-COLDts£(? CRMS H PROGRAMS
m such themes as 'me
POSTURE' "PEACE BSCAiAtlObi"
"pm couuTßßPom:
UMBER FIVB- OUM Mm PEOPLE
m SUITS M)Q TIES TO VOID.
6ET A FEW OF THOSE MASTERS
OFF THE SfBNSOR LIST AMP PUT
ova couple of ecuems!
MAKE THE IMA&E OF
PEACE MORE h)AK-
iM, OUR FUW
mo\m PROBLEM 1 ?
ML BE OVER]
I'M W£
•COU6RKS
MU 26
HA m
1b
m
Alt
'WT
'mi-
FINE FRIESIAN STUD
TC'or the second time, a heifer by
Craigmore Ltd, senior sire of Mr
E. Alderton’s “Green Vista” Friesian stud
at Drung (Vic.), has topped the annual
breeders’ stud sale in Melbourne. This
heifer, Green Vista Dairymaid, sold for
460 guineas.
By judicious buying in three States,
Mr Alderton has built up an excellent
stud, based first on Craigmore Lad,
whose dam, Craigmore Princess, held the
Victorian record of 14,6701 b. of milk
of 3.9 test and 5831 b. of butter-fat in
300 days. He has added, as junior herd
sire, Wyoming Mary Blue, whose sire
was Brisbane Royal Show champion,
and whose dam, champion cow at both
Sydney and Brisbane Royal Shows, has
produced 19,7501 b. of milk of 3.9 test
and 7651 b. of butter-fat in 300 days.
Bred on those lines, more Green Vista
Friesians can be expected to top stud
breeders’ sales.
Water kills sheep lice
on the biology of the sheep
body louse (Damalinia ovis), made
by Mr M. D. Murray at the McMaster
Animal Health Laboratory, have estab-
lished that both nymphal and adult stages
of the louse are killed by immersion in
water.
Thus the mortality of lice observed
after dipping or even spraying with an
insecticide solution of low concentration
could be due solely to soaking with
Water, he believes.


People are talking
about the new
BULLETIN
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 408 S, G.P.0., Sydney
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
N. 2. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick y/ whichever Is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? J~j or
A renewal subscription? □
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
months subscription to THE BULLETIN.
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN y° u
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? More
and more people are buying the "new look"
BULCETTN for its features, its overseas and local news,
its columnists like Boadicea, Discus, Cellarmaster, its
reviews of films, books, music and theatre. If you
want to keep abreast of news and significant events
in Australia and abroad THE BULLETIN *s a must. In
addition THE BULLETIN will feature this year a series
of four-page full color features on Australian art and
other subjects. So why not fill in the form at left and
be sure of your copy each week?
JThe
Bulletin
A magazine of farts and ideas est 1880.
ON SALE WEDNESDAYS 2/-
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 745
ACROSS
I—Sauce craft out of bed. (7)
s—Very haughty subject to bushranging approaches.
(5-2)
8— As a murder is hidden by raiders. (9)
9 Gilbertian musical works a corresponding after-
thought to nothing. (3)
11— Quick arrival is too much for red wood. (5)
12— Heckle and boo a fixture in a drinking saloon? (7)
13— Disorderly lives for a pop singer heartened by 56.
(5)
15—Ford rondo arranged for your main entrance. (5, 4)
16—Helped in time for a fast
innings. (4, 1,4)
18— Enjoyment with private
mould, mushrooms, etc. (5)
19— A former cult in French art
and father is seen in the
morning. (7)
21—Name women only. (5)
23 Barrel-backed bolt comple-
ment. (3)
24 A 5/- handful for a porter
stating the Government’s
legal submission. (5, 4)
25 — Doesn’t yield disorderly
sisters. (7)
26 Painter of sea mist. (7)
DOWN
1— An Irish mountain to assault
food? (13)
2 A small boy or island not far
from Darwin. (5)
3 Preys upon fellows of whom
England’s rulers have included
eight. (7)
4 Sound fruit is most of it. (5)
5 It wouldn’t be decent to give
you an example of this
erosion in the sabre. (5-4)
6 Flying start for a parvenu. (7)
7 An introduction to flatten
1-down without its food. (9)
10—It holds four times as much
money as 24-across. (9, 4)
14—Vehicle on a dated party’s
salts of the acid derived from
vanadium. (9)
15—They’re for pressing apart-
ment shackles. (4, 5)
17— Did cats change slaves to
habit? (7)
18— A sweet, affectionate insect.
(7)
20—Drop a note because I am
after Ginger Meggs’ girl. (5)
22—One of Australia’s biggest
retailers and you interrupting
a married woman. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 744


Mi
3
m
4
S\
Y
M
>
*
»
H
m
m
I
%
warn
#,
i
SM -K
:
;
I
j
f
tS‘O
*ias«a
w
H#
#3»
*
* Hi
*r%
*
%., %
•*
%_%
• A’
m
% **
# #
% %
% *
**#€
*****
* J*
* *
* %
*
•*
: m
m
*
******
BRANDY CHEERS
the most warming drinks of Winter
Behind you, exhilarating hours in crisp new-fallen snow. Before you, a cosy evening
among friends. But now an hour of happy talk . . . and a Brandy Cheer—wonderful
way to relax.
Prize-winner of overseas awards and first choice of connoisseurs, Australian
Brandy is the base of many friendly new drinks, long or short. More and more it's
being enjoyed by moderate people everywhere. Discover its.golden goodness for
yourself!
(Ever tried the delicious flavour oh rich coffee mildly laced with brandy? Wonderful! But be sure
you use good Australian brandy, the very essence of sun-ripened grapes.)
try THIS BRANDY CHEER:
Place 2 level teaspoons sugar and the spoon
In small tumbler. Add I oz. Brandy, nearly
'll glass with very hot water, serve with slice
of lemon.
SEND NOW FOR FREE BOOKLET of other Winter-warming Brandy Cheers.
■Just write to the Wine Information Centre in your State.
Box 3634, G.P.0., Sydney
Box 4057, G.P.0., Melbourne
Box 155 C, G.P.0., Brisbane
Box 260 D, G.P.0., Adelaide
Box T 1650, G.P.0., Perth
Box 809 H, G.P.0., Hobart
There’s always warmth in your hospitality when you serve BRANDY
the golden taste
of sunshine.
m
Authorised by the Australian Wine Board.
AW.I47.FPC


Pour some over ice-cream for an exciting
dessert.
§
::
♦’Sr.
/
Use any cake recipe, omit half the milk or
water and use the same amount of BORONIA
Marsala.
For a delightful finish to your dinner,-serve
as a liqueur. For a special treat, fop with a
A long drink with ice and your choice of soda,
lemonade, cola or dry ginger.
Delightful
in so many ways . . .
BORONIA Marsala all’Uovo is
a distinctive rich creamy liqueur
wine made only by S. Wynn
& Co. Pty. Ltd. to their own
secret formula.
Many have tried, unsuccessfully,
to imitate this subtle combin-
ation of aromatic and fragrant
flowers, herbs and roots gath-
ered from all over the world,
compounded with egg-yolks and
specially aged luscious wines.
BORONIA
“The Liqueur Wine of Romance”
- remains truly unique.
<«> 'X
Aon ,nvMM|
