

The Bulletin
• I He cLfclllUN —A HUHI K>k VUI i 2
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
WORLD
OF THE
SURFIES


#
»
ill
There’s no more exacting master than Tradition
Creating fine wines is a matter of family pride with the Smiths of Yalumba . . . has been since
1849. This is one reason why Yalumba Moselle endears itself as a dinner companion. For
Yalumba makes Moselle from selected Rhine Riesling grapes into a light, bright, slightly sweet
wine bottled young and matured in the bottle for truly authentic character. Try Yalumba
Moselle just once; you’ll ask for it always.
YALUMBA Moselle
.S. Smith and Son Limited, Yalumba Vineyards, Angaston, South Australia
FREE Yalumba Wine Selector tells
all about the serving of wines
with meals . . . like one? . . .
write direct to Yalumba, Angas-
ton. N.S.W. readers may enquire
direct to state distributors,
O’Malley and Morris Pty. Ltd.,
40 Ennis Road, Milson’s Point,
Sydney. Phone 92 7076.
T
'*nw«wwi»w«m4


National Notebook
Advice
A colleague of ours just back from
Brisbane noted with increasing alarm
a red printed card standing on a table
in his hotel bedroom which read:
Please Note!
In case of FIRE you are advised to
follow the Corridor to your LEFT.
{Licensing Commission Institution )
Like “maimed” the word “advised”
has a horrible ring of incertitude to it. In
case of fire you want to be directed, told,
commanded—even implored or begged.
But advised! What happens if the advice
is bad and in case of fire you should take
the corridor to the right? Too late.
Personal Treatment
other morning we had an agree-
able half hour or so taking coffee
in Sydney with Max Reinhardt, whose
famous small publishing firm some time
ago merged with The Bodley Head, of
which Mr Reinhardt is a director. An
urgent topic at a reception for him the
night before had been The Bodley Head’s
scoop of the year: adding to its lists
Graham Greene and Georgette Heyer,
for years two of the sturdiest pillars of
the Heinemann group. Max Reinhardt
has been largely credited with the coup,
and we asked him how it had been
done.
“It happened after
Frere the former
chairman of Heine-
mann had been
thrown out by a firm
which took control of
that publisher. Frere
was a very close per-
sonal friend of Greene. In common with
some other Heinemann authors, Greene
felt he was not going to continue to get
the personal treatment he had been used
to. Georgette Heyer felt similarly con-
cerned.
“We offered personal treatment. And
this is far more important a considera-
tion than money. We didn’t offer Greene
a larger advance, you see. It’s important
for an author to have a close friendly
relationship with his publisher.”
Mr Reinhardt added that it was the
back-list—the line-up of important books
of the past which could constantly be
reprinted in thousands—that kept a pub-
lisher going, together with the big new
names like Greene, Heyer, and Edward
(“The Last Hurrah”) O’Connor, also a
Bodley Head topliner. Books like
Joyce's “Ulysses” kept on selling from
year to year. “We print 3000 copies of
a new novel by an author who isn’t
famous, or a first novel. It will prob-
ably sell 2000 anyway. The remaining
1000 will sell if the book is enthusiasti-
cally reviewed in the ‘Sunday Times’, the
‘London Observer’ and the ‘Sunday Tele-
graph’. Reviews of novels in ‘The New
Statesman’ and ‘The Spectator’ do not
count so much because women don’t as
a rule read those publications. And they
do make up the bulk of novel buyers.”
In Australia Mr Reinhardt has estab-
lished an arrangement whereby Bodley
Head Australian authors will be pub-
lished here first and distributed by Pen-
guin Books, who also handle Bodley
Head in England. Australian sales
already account for 12i per cent of the
total sales of British books—“an import-
ant proportion, you see,” Mr Reinhardt
says. “We may manufacture Australian
titles here first, if that seems economi-
cally feasible,” he concluded.
Bye Bye Birdie
A T Tempe in Sydney a budgerigar
named Birdie Man is back in his
cage after an adventure in freedom cut
short because he talked too much. It
was Birdie Man’s second moment of
minor notoriety. Months earlier his
owner, Mrs Mitchell of Tempe, had
spent three weeks teaching him to say
“2GB is for me” to win £lO offered by
a radio station for that accomplishment.
Birdie Man won the
money but failed to star
on the air “live” due to
the budgie habit of mix-
ing phrases indiscrimin-
ately. As often as he
might say the required
thing, Birdie Man
would also describe 2GB as a bag of
feathers or a creature from outer space,
including the Australian adjective in his
observations.
However unpopular this made him as
a broadcaster, Birdie Man was a hero at
home. Mrs Mitchell invested some of
the tenner in a lottery ticket, won first
prize, bought a new home for herself
and her daughter, and naturally gave the
budgerigar the run of the house. Until
last week, when Birdie Man noticed an
opened window and headed outdoors.
Mrs Mitchell asked 2GB to help find him,
and the station’s disc jockey, John Laws,
described the budgie and his possible
whereabouts, and even found and played
a tape recording of Birdie Man’s clarion
call for 2GB.
And here the story has a happy end-
ing. Laws’ words reached the ears of a
distant neighbor of Mrs Mitchell’s who
had noticed a stray bird perched on her
back fence. She walked out and spoke
Page
THE US MARKET 19
Damaging our name
•
AROUND ADELAIDE .... 11
AROUND MELROURNE ... 33
RUSINESS AND FINANCE
(32 pages) 50
CROSSWORD 82
EIGHTY YEARS AGO 8
FORUM 35
LETTERS 39
MAN ON THE LAND 79
MOTORING 24
OUT AND ABOUT 17
OVERSEAS 28
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
POETRY 46
RED PACE 47
REVIEWS 42
SCIENCE AND MEDICINE . 26
TANNER 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
•
The Fight for Vote 2 6
The Cult of the Surfie 13
Dave Allen: An Interview 17
Nuclear Pornography: A Chat
with Herman Kahn 23
The New Holden: A Last Word .. 24
Malaysia: Land of Suspicion 28
Berlin: Why the Russians Did It 32
St. Lucia: A University Gone
Wrong? 35
Is There an Indigenous Australian
Art? 42
Labor and the Banks 50
To Boom or Not To Boom 57
Smiles from Real Estate Agents .. 59
One-Man Export Drive 79
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone 27 5971.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone 2 0666, Ext. 380.
Vol. 85
NO. 4371


to Birdie Man, who immediately gave
himself away with a rousing “2GB is
for me”. The neighbor said, “Home is
for you,” and carried Birdie Man the
few blocks to Mrs Mitchell’s. The story
does not include any further remarks
from Birdie Man, but considering the
events and his racy vocabulary it s a
moral that 2GB will not be anxious
to interview him for some time.
Tossing a Stone
Planner Professor Hollister Kent, who
selected the site for Brasilia, was in
Canberra and Perth recently. When we
challenged him about “Kubitschek’s folly”
he pointed out: “I can’t think President
Kubitschek made a bad decision, though
many seek to make political capital out
of it. It was a bold and typically Brazilian
decision. There have been 170,000 people
go there in four years. Now, you can’t
call that folly, can you?”
of this Brazilian capital to tossing a stone
into a pool. “It has demonstrated that
the ripples affect areas around this hub;
inland centres are setting up where they
never would have gone otherwise.” In
fact, he said, this dramatic decentralisa-
tion might not be a bad way to shift Aus-
tralians from their coastal strip.
jCI ’ W L
ee ort 011 s a e
T eon Lazar Gevorshner (Lee Gordon)
would have liked the idea of a wake
held last week for him at the Rex Hotel
j n b j s damping ground, Kings Cross.
Cost was one pound a head, journalists
not excepted.
There were about t h re e journalists
there, and if that makes us a mean bunch,
then Sydney s entertainers are way ahead,
the only one of note being Col Joye. Yet
every entertainer who’d ever set foot
inside the Stadium (Joye, O’Keefe, Dig
Richards, Johnny Devlin, Johnny Rebb)
lost no time in telling the afternoon
papers they owed everything to Lee.
«2£ we ’ b k no wn he was in trouble
we ’ c j bave p Ut on a s how for him,”
O’Keefe was reported to have said.
Guests included dlsc Jockey Bob
Rogers, Channel 9 producer and enter-
tainment agent John Collins, and comic
Joe Martin who was the first Australian
entertainer to be billed with an overseas
celebrity in a Stadium show.
From Gordon’s old associates Max
Moore (Col Joye Enterprises) and A 1
Heffernan (stomp promoter) came an-
other facet of Gordon’s multi-cut life. In
addition to owning a chain of American
television stores, a private plane, pro-
moting Australian and overseas enter-
tainers like Frank Sinatra, Bob Hope and
Johnnie Ray, and assisting the rise and
fall of places like the Pigalle, the Primitif
and the Sound Lounge, Gordon seems to
have been influential in cutting profit
margins and boosting turnover on elec-
rica 0 00 s -
As promotions adviser to a Sydney
furniture and electrical goods store, for
five per cent of increase in sales, Moore
claimed Gordon’s idea of store-redeem-
able cheque gifts boosted turnover to the
stage where a separate company, the
Mason-Dixon had to be formed to deal
with the increase in customers for elec-
trical goods.
Don t, then, judge Mr Gordon too
harshly. Having given Australia the bene-
fit of Johnny O’Keefe, multi-sex strip
shows and drive-in restaurants, he may
have been indirectly responsible for
Mum’s cheaper mixer.
Tanner
"Go on, ask him does he believe in Santa."


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Risks with Labor
TN some circles which ought to
know better one now occasion-
ally hears the alarming cliche that
if a Labor Government were
returned to power at the end of
this month it would, despite all
the influence that pro-Commun-
ists have had on it in recent
years, quickly become a res-
ponsible party. This would be,
according to this view, because
Labor has in its ranks many men
who, on the Communist question,
are as sound as bells which is
obviously a fact and because in
the hope of getting and keeping a
Cabinet or some other post, all sorts
of red-raggers would immediately
jettison their Leftism for the sake
of the flesh-pots.
This latter view has a certain
plausibility in relation to a few in-
dividuals, but it is simply lazy
cynicism to sum up the whole
position in this way. There are a
few time-serving pro-Communists in
the Labor Party who may be free
to change their tunes if they want
to; but there are many who are not
free, who owe their positions to
Communist-controlled unions and
are prisoners of the Communists.
But, more important, there are many
who are sincerely committed to
working with Communists, who see
no evil in Communism and who will
fight for their principles. Mr Leslie
Haylen, one of the most notorious
of these, is also one of the least
significant and is not taken serious-
ly even by his allies. The more
significant are the men who run
the Labor Party in Queensland, Vic-
toria and West Australia, who were
quite satisfied to see Labor beaten
in all these States rather than give
up their support of Communist
foreign policy, Communist peace
fronts, and unity tickets with Com-
munists. They were the ones who al-
most succeeded in forcing the Labor
Party to oppose the US base, who
forced the reluctant Mr Calwell into
a policy of withdrawing troops from
Malaysia unless they stay there
under a treaty (knowing full well
there can be no such treaty), and
into advocating a nuclear-free
Southern Hemisphere leaving Aus-
tralia defenceless against a nuclear
Northern Hemisphere Red China.
Such men would be happy to see
Labor defeated rather than give up
their policies.
must agree at once that ob-
viously these dangerous, often
stupid, but quite sincere men do not
control the ALP, lock, stock and
barrel. The point is they are still
a very powerful influence within it
and have forced the Party to adopt
policies which are suitable com-
promises with their demands. No
one is so idiotic as to believe that
to elect a Labor Government is to
elect a Communist Government
when a few of the most courageous
anti-Communists in Australia are
still in the ALP; the point is that
a Labor Government is subject to
strong pro-Communist influence and
cannot yet be trusted to take a real-
istic view of the dangers this country
faces. But this is a period when we
need a Government that is absolute-
ly sound on this matter.
A Labor Government would have
three choices: it could obey the
pro-Communists; it could com-
promise with them; or it could purge
them. If it did either of the first
two, Australia as a free country
would be doomed; if it did the third
• and the pro-Communists are so
entrenched that this would involve
a major battle the Labor Party
would be so torn that we would
have no effective government, a
luxury which unfortunately in the
1960 s we cannot afford.
If Labor had conducted this
necessary purge some time ago, it
would be a different matter. If it
conducts it in 1964 assuming it
is beaten on November 30 it
may be different at the following
election. Meanwhile it is not fit
to govern Australia, and Sir Robert
Menzies is right when he describes
this country as literally on the cross-
roads.
Malaysia and Exmouth
two vital election issues
Malaysia and the North West
Cape the Labor Party is being
specious and evasive. Mr Calwell,
who is a patriotic Australian, a
staunch anti-Communist and the
friend of both Britain and the US, is
forced to be evasive and specious
because his Party is split and con-
fused. On the Malaysia issue it is
simply idle for him to go on pre-
tending there is any substance in his
plea for a treaty with Malaysia. The
simple fact is that Malaysia can-
not bind itself to a treaty. It is offi-
cially non-aligned and is not even
a member of SEATO. It needs Aus-
tralian help and has welcomed it.
But it would be worth the Tunku’s
political life to sign a treaty with
Australia. Mr Calwell knows this
very well, hence the rather devious
assurance in his policy speech that
the Labor Party, if returned to
power, would abide by the current
agreement with Malaysia until a
treaty was secured. This is one way
of having the best of two worlds. On
the North West Cape issue Mr
Calwell is captive to the Left wing of
the ALP. Demanding that Australia
has joint control with the US over
the wireless station sounds every
patriotic and reasonable but it is, in
actual fact, Communist-inspired. If
this were 1941 when we had days,
even weeks, to prepare for aggres-
sion there might be something in his
proposal. Today it is impossible.
If a nuclear war is unleashed the US
will have to act in a matter of
seconds. There will be no time for
President Kennedy to ring an Aus-
tralian Prime Minister and ask per-
mission to use a base built in Aus-
tralia for Australia’s own protection
with American funds and skills.


THIS AUSTRALIA
THE ELECTIONS —I
The Fight
For Vote 2
The DLP remains the key
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
JACK KANE
Strategist
rTHE outcome of the coming Federal poll
A will clearly be decided on the pre-
ferences of the DLP candidates. Every-
one is at least vaguely aware of this, but
the extent of the importance of the pre-
ferences in making the last Federal Gov-
ernment is even more spectacular than
usually remembered. In 31 seats the
DLP/QLP preferences were distributed
to decide the member. The degree of
drift of DLP preferences is a product of
a complex of factors; the “donkey-vote”
arising out of the alphabetical order of
candidates; the strength of DLP organisa-
tion in the electorate; and, finally, the
quality and, to be blunt, the religious
color of the ALP candidate.
The drift of DLP preferences to the
ALP ranged from 56.27 per cent in the
Sydney suburban seat of Evans (a Gov-
ernment loss) to as low as 5.5 per cent
in Wannon, a Victorian rural seat. Cer-
tainly it was clear that Victorian DLP
voters followed the Party ticket much
more tightly than in other States.
But in the vital seat of Bruce (cover-
ing the south-eastern fringe suburbs of
Melbourne and hotly contested this time
by the redoubtable quiz-king Barry Jones)
the DLP preference drift to the ALP
of 32.46 per cent was out of character
with the rest of the State. This time, with
a self-styled Independent Liberal who
will head the paper and an independent
ex-ALP man, the situation will be differ-
ent and even more complicated. But a
DLP drift on the scale of last time would
certainly help the challenger.
In the other two Victorian seats
spoken of as swingers, the DLP vote
stayed very firm for the Government.
In Maribyrnong the drift was 11.63 per
cent and Corio 11.09 per cent. The
Government would need an overall
swing of the order of 5.31 per cent to
take the most possible Labor seat,
Bendigo; so DLP preferences are un-
likely to be a factor in any Labor-held
seat.
In NSW at the last election the Sydney
western suburbs seat of Evans provided
a classic example of all three factors
mentioned above, resulting in the biggest
drift of DLP preferences in Australia.
According to a study of the “donkey-
vote” prepared for the Australian
Political Studies Association, the average
House of Representatives “donkey-vote”
in NSW was 3 per cent. Applying this to
Evans where the DLP candidate topped
the paper last time, with ALP in second
place, then out of the 2580 DLP total,
1146 of the preferences which went to
Monaghan would be “donkey votes”. The
next factor was that the DLP did not
work hard in the area, regarding it as a
blue - ribbon Liberal seat. Finally, J.
Monaghan, a well-known local Catholic,
had cultivated DLP voters and asked in
door-knocks to give him their second
preference.
This time the Liberal candidate, Dr
Malcolm Mackay, a Presbyterian Min-
ister, is ahead of Monaghan on the paper,
and will get the “donkey vote” prefer-
ences.
The Federal Secretary of the t)LP, Mr
Jack Kane, is also standing, so his
organisation will be strong. It is on
these factors and on the hope of a
general swing back to the Government
that the Liberal Party places its hopes.
In Lowe, an adjacent electorate where
the Minister for Labor, Mr W. Mc-
Mahon, had a close shave last time, the
ALP has the top of the paper, but the
DLP organisation, non-existent last time,
is to be brought into play to control the
33.4 per cent drift of preferences last
time.
In the central coast-northern suburbs
seat of Robertson, conceded by all part-
ies to be Labor’s best chance in NSW,
the DLP has brought in a new candidate
who can top the ballot paper, but his
second “donkey” preferences will go to
the ALP’s man, B. Brown.
In Hume the ALP veteran, Arthur
Fuller, succeeded in attracting 27.85 per
cent of the DLP preferences last time,
to take the seat from the Country Party.
This time this seat will be a four-
cornered contest.
In Queensland, at the last elections
the QLP drift was a vital factor in
Labor’s sweep of the State. In the
metropolitan seat of Lilley, the drift was
30.31 per cent (some “donkey-vote” as
DLP was at the top of the paper). How-
ever, in the adjacent seat of Petrie the
drift was only 15.65 per cent. In Bow-
man, which was won by the ALP, the
figure was 48.55 per cent, in Capricornia
45.35 per cent. Several QLP candidates
last time unofficially advocated number
2 votes for the ALP, and in addition
the party was not well organised. Now
that the QLP has been formally incor-
ported in the DLP, party officials are
confident of tighter voting.
If the political observers are right in
tipping no change in the other three
States, then preferences will not be a
factor. But if there were a swing to the
Government in the West, then DLP
preferences could become a factor in the
Labor-held Kalgoorlie (20.1 per cent
drift last time) and Stirling (9.618 per
cent). In Tasmania where population
changes in Franklin might endanger the
sitting member, the DLP drift to the
ALP was 20.75 per cent.
THE ELECTIONS II
Liberals v. Country Party
Minister threatened?
FROM INTERSTATE CORRESPONDENTS
In the six seats where the Liberal and
Country Parties will clash, prefer-
ences will also be a vital factor. The
only seat in NSW where there
will be a Liberal-Country Party
contest is Hume, won by the ALP from
the Country Party in 1961. The last
time a Liberal Party candidate stood
was in 1954, when he polled a little
over half the number polled by the
Country Party man, but there was no
distribution of preferences. DLP pre-
ferences (where they do not drift) are
directed to the Country Party rather than
the Liberals.
In Western Australia a lot of bitter
words have been spilled over Forrest,
where the Liberal Minister for the


Interior, Gordon Freeth, faces a
challenge from R. J. Oates, a Country
Party executive member standing as an
Independent, who furthermore has an-
nounced his preferences will go to the
ALP. Mr Oates will get ALP preferences
and is confident that he can overthrow
the Minister, whose majority last time
was 5,813. However, in the Senate
elections the Country Party polled 4,787
in that seat, a possible pointer to Mr
Oates’s strength. If Oates polls last, then
the ALP man could threaten Freeth.
In Canning and Moore the ALP pre-
ferences will go to the Country Party
rather than the Liberals, which has led
to inferences of deals between the CP
and the ALP. Canning is complicated by
an Independent who faces expulsion
from the Country Party for standing
against their president, the endorsed
candidate. Last time the CP was eli-
minated, but the great majority of the
votes stayed loyal to the Government,
putting in the Liberal. In Moore last
time it was ALP preferences which put
Hugh Leslie in for the Country Party
after he had been trailing the Liberal by
2,400-odd.
In Victoria two western country seats
are the scene of intra-Government
clashes; Indi and Wimmera. In 1961
the Country Party member, R. Holten,
who had taken the electorate from a
Liberal in 1958, kept his seat despite a
heavy drift of ALP and DLP prefer-
ences to the Liberal. In Wimmera the
Liberal candidate was eliminated before
Labor last time, but less than five per cent
of his preferences went to the ALP, so
the Country Party member, Robert King,
held the seat.
The conflict between the Government
parties probably will not lose any seats,
with the possible exception of Forrest,
but it may well, and Labor organisers
hope so, stop the regaining of Hume.
The importance of preferences (with
the associated “donkey-vote” question)
means that the final outcome of the
elections might not be known for days,
until final distribution, although veteran
scrutineers should be able to give early
indications in the vital seats.
THE ELECTIONS-III
Sir Garfield’s
Reinforcements
More middle-class voters
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
SIR G. BARWICK
Confident
Tf you want to buy a house in Epping,
A a pleasant tree-shaded suburb on
the north-western outskirts of Sydney,
which overlooks Patrick White’s Sarsa-
parilla country to the west, you will
need about £6OOO. Indeed, last week,
a proud builder was offering new houses
for prices from £6200. It is this social
fact of life about Epping and its adja-
cent suburb Eastwood (the limit might
be £5OO less) that will probably ensure
the return of the Attorney-General, Sir
Garfield Barwick, despite Labor opti-
mism about chances of taking his seat
Parramatta.
The Labor hopes come from an
advertising agency survey which put it in
second place among the seats likely to
be captured in New South Wales. But
an examination of the figures casts doubt
on this survey.
Although Parramatta itself gives its
name to the electorate, it gives relatively
few votes (about 2000). The bulk of the
numbers come from the middle - class
suburbs of Eastwood and Epping and
the cheaper-housing area of Rydalmere,
which includes many Housing Commis-
sion homes in the Dundas Valley.
Like almost all electorates around the
outer ring of the cities, Parramatta has
increased the number of voters on the
roll up by about 3700 to 59,800.
However, approaching two-thirds of
that increase has come in the strong
middle-class areas of Eastwood and
Epping. The pace of Housing Commis-
sion development in the Dundas Valley
has slowed over the last 18 months and
only about 1300 extra voters have gone
on to the rolls in the Rydalmere sub-
division.
At the last election the Liberal vote
fell by 6.67 per cent in Parramatta. If
the Liberal Party theorists are right
about 2 per cent of the fall was a Liberal
protest vote, as distinct from the overall
4.5 per cent swing.
Liberal workers are confident the
protest voters can be drawn back now
that the economy has been stabilised.
But even at the peak of feeling against
the Government in 1961, Sir Garfield
still had an absolute majority with 2936
DLP votes and their preferences undis-
tributed.
Barwick, as a name, also means the
top of the ballot. The DLP this time is
putting in Edward Beck, whom they re-
gard as a good candidate to draw votes.
The ALP candidate, Max McLaren,
stood last time and is called a good
campaign worker. But as a storeman-
packer he is not the kind - of glamor
Labor candidate who might draw off
middle-class voters.
It was clear on the figures that only
a general swing could shift Sir Garfield
and it would furthermore have to be a
substantial one.
THE ELECTIONS —IV
Haylen in Parkes
Can the Member
for Peking Win?
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
A few weeks ago you could have
named your own price on the
proposition that Leslie Haylen would
hold his seat of Parkes. Today he may
still be odds on, but the price has
shortened dramatically.
How can this be? Haylen has held
the seat for some twenty years now —
why should he be in danger at a time
when Labor fortunes, whatever they may
be, are certainly not at the 20-year low?
Basically there are three reasons:
• The present Liberal candidate, Tom
Hughes, is showing unexpected calibre.
• Haylen’s old credit as a Right-
winger seems to be finally exhausted —
at last.
® Inside the ALP there is a quite
sizeable underground movement against
the once-loved Leslie.
Tom Hughes is a cut above any candi-
date whom Haylen has had to face up
till now. Maybe he has not the “slick
and bitter” turn of phrase in which Hay-
len excels, but he is no more tongue-tied
than the average QC —and he will learn.
Meanwhile he gives points for sincerity
(Unfair! Unfair!) and he seems willing
enough to trade punches. One disability,
residence outside the electorate, he will
overcome—with another, however, he
seems stuck. His name begins with HU
so that Haylen (HA) comes ahead of him
on the ballot paper, and can expect to
benefit from the “donkey - vote”. No
doubt the Liberals will be making strenu-
ous efforts to round up chese donkeys—-
but they can’t hope to get them all.
But these aren’t the real issues that
make Parkes such a fascinating seat. The
thing which is likely to make it go anti-


Labor quite beyond any general trend is
Haylen’s involvement with Communists
and Communist causes —and, even
worse, his peculiar predilection for
Communist China.
Twenty years ago when Haylen made
his transition from the staff of the
“Women's Weekly” to the Labor Parlia-
mentary Party, he seemed to be a genu-
ine right-winger and an anti-Communist.
The last few years have changed all
that. In the House he has made him-
self the apologist for Red China and
earned the jibe that he was acting as the
Member for Peking rather than the
Member for Parkes.
The extent to which he will go is
best illustrated by the part he played in
the famous Special Conference of the
ALP last March, which was called to
consider Labor's attitude to the base on
the North West Cape.
The Communists had for long been
agitating against this base, and had per-
suaded the Labor Party Federal Execu-
tive to pass a resolution condemning it
in principle. Calwell realised the im-
mense harm that this would do to his
electoral prospects, and summoned a
Special Conference in the mistaken con-
fidence that Labor’s pro-Communist
posture would be easily reversed.
However, the Communists brought all
their influence to bear, and managed to
evoke a sympathetic response inside the
Labor Party. The opposition to Cal-
well’s plan was spearheaded by Leslie
Haylen and it almost succeeded in dead-
locking the Conference —18 all. Finally,
the tearful pleadings of Calwell managed
to produce a 19-17 vote in favor of a
compromise resolution.
But it cannot be forgotten (and how
could Calwell forget it) that Haylen
sponsored the opposing resolution against
him —the resolution which was in accord
with the Communist policy.
Nor is this an isolated instance. Haylen
has consorted with known Communists
(whom he must surely know to be
Communists) on such institutions as the
Australasian Book Society—an institution
of which he is President. He himself,
when he visited Red China, produced a
book which was largely a paste-up from
Communist hand-outs, and which went
to the length of presenting at least one
such hand-out as Haylen’s own personal
experience.
In point of fact, Haylen is becoming
too big a load for the ALP to carry—
his presence in the Parliamentary Party
has become a constant embarrassment.
Many ALP supporters —including
many ALP voters in Parkes—had come
to the conclusion that the Party would
be stronger without him even though it
might mean losing a seat.
CATHOLICS
Dr Simonds
at Work
Move and counter-move
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
Mr B. A. Santamaria’s last telecast
on the Roman Catholic Church’s of-
ficial TV session on Sunday mornings, he
used his time to pay a tribute to the late
Archbishop Mannix and one of the
anecdotes he told was, perhaps uninten-
tionally, prophetic.
Mr Santamaria described sitting
several years ago with Bishop O’Collins
(Ballarat) and Bishop Lyons (Sale) and
Archbishop Mannix in the latter’s study.
“Someone had remarked in the Press
that, when the Archbishop died, his
death would lead to great changes in
the political situation in Australia. There
was a rather animated discussion
about this, the Archbishop, whose
death was the topic of discussion,
saying never a word.
“I looked at him to see what he was
thinking of this very strange discussion
about his own death. Suddenly Bishop
O'Collins said, emphatically: ‘I say that
Mannix dead will be more powerful than
Mannix alive’.”
Both Bishop O’Collins and Bishop
Lyons hold to the Mannix-Santamaria
policies and so, too, does the third
Suffragan Bishop in Victoria, Bishop
Stewart of Sandhurst (Bendigo).
Later in the week there was another
sign that Archbishop Simonds was
moving firmly yet quietly to withdraw
his church from the causes symbolised
by the close association between Dr
Mannix and Mr Santamaria. The official
church paper “Tribune” had announced
a week earlier that it would publish “one
of the most outspoken and hard-hitting
articles written in years,” on the question
of State Aid for NSW schools. This was
due to appear in last week’s issue, but
the article was not published.
It was learned that the missing article
was written by Father J. P. Kelly of
Bombala (NSW) who was Director of
Education in the Archdiocese of Can-
berra and Goulburn from 1947 to 1958.
It had appeared in the October issue of
the Bombala “Parish Record”.
On Friday came a counter-attack. The
Bishop of Sandhurst, Dr Stewart, dis-
tributed advance copies of an address
he was to give at a speech night that
night. Cast in a form of a tribute to
the late Archbishop, it contained what
was plainly an attack on Dr Simonds’
attitudes.
The speech referred to “the great
Popes of modern times”, Pius the
Eleventh and Pius the Twelfth, but there
was no mention of the late Pope John.
It recalled that Dr Mannix, on the
School Aid Question, fought for “strict
justice” and would not be satisfied with
“crumb-sized concessions”.
The sharpest thrust came in the final
sentences where Dr Stewart said that
“Archbishop Mannix saw more clearly
than most the danger to the land of his
adoption with the Red cause riding
triumphant in Asia to the north and Red
subversion undermining our home
defences.”
The moves and counter-moves sent a
wave of optimism through the ALP
whose candidates and organisers were
under instructions to make no public
reference to the rift in the Catholic
Church.
CROWN AND EMPIRE
bulletin
80 Years Ago: November 24, 1883
Oaid the S.M.H. Friday last, “The
holiday which these colonies will
celebrate to-day will remind them of
their relation to the Empire and to
the Throne.” This was a big lie of
the sentimental bunkum order. Not
one in a thousand ever thought of
Empire or Throne. Not one in ten
gave so much as a passing thought
to Wales. Any stick will do to beat
a dog with and any peg (Wales’s
birth, or any other incident in his life)
to hang a holiday upon, without a
thought for the House of Brunswick.
vast majority of Irishmen of
to-day know that an independent
Ireland is a dream whose realisation
would mean ruin. With Great
Britain they must stand or fall. In
his address to the Irish convention
in Melbourne, Dr. O'DOHERTY said
that his countrymen did not seek or
desire “separation from that great
Empire that has been reared largely
by the brain, muscle, and blood of
some of the best of our race. Its glory
has become ours. Our destiny is in-
separably connected with it.”


m
i
m
u
Hi
IP
S'
lit
i ihi nil
in*'!';::
HYLAND
tiae 120-year
search
for a great
Australian
whisky
We at Penfolds have always believed that Australia
can produce wines and spirits as fine as any in the
world. Ever since the days of the founder, Dr. Rawson
Penfold and his son-in-law, Thomas Francis Hyland, we
have worked towards this end.
And every year it becomes plainer—Australia is
fast becoming one of the world's great wine producing
countries.
We have always believed Australia could make a
great whisky, too. A proud, individual whisky—-as unique
and inimitable as our greatest wines. But in 120 years
we never found such a whisky—until now.
So, for the first time in more than a century of
search and trial, we are offering a smooth, mellow, subtly
blended whisky. One that our great forefathers would
have tasted with approval, so, in their memory we have
ventured to name it Hyland.
To us, this Christmas is rather special; and to you,
too. You can offer this great whisky with pride and
confidence. Hyland is genial, courteous whisky. Clean
to the taste, warming and rewarding as it goes down, it
takes ice without losing flavour. You will enjoy Hyland
—the smooth, individual taste, the gentle warmth beneath
the suave exterior. This Christmas . . . give, receive,
enjoy Hyland.
HYLAND'S unique taste is superb on the rocks or
with soda —and blends perfectly in your favourite festive
drinks.
Thomas Francis Hyland joined the
House ol Pcnfolds in 1862. From 1844
Penfolds grew from one small vineyard
to the undisputed leader ol the
Australian wine industry. Hyland whisky
is named lor Thomas Francis Hyland.
HYLAND
the great
Australian
WHISKY


NORTHERN TERRITORY
The New “Minister
for the North”?
“Tiger” turns chicken?
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
“TIGER” BRENNAN
Stood down
Tock Nelson, the Northern Territory’s
** Federal Member for more than a
decade, has been returned unopposed.
This is a strange reversal of form since
the last election, when he won the Labor
Party nomination narrowly (21 votes to
19) and came within a few hundred
votes of defeat in a two-way campaign
against rumbustious Legislative Council-
lor “Tiger” Brennan.
Jock, a bland, plump cattleman, is
riding a wave of local enthusiasm for
Calwell’s announced programme of
northern development. He has been
assured of a Cabinet post as “Minister
for Northern Australia” if Labor is re-
turned.
“Tiger” Brennan, a colorful type
whose campaign tickets picture a tiger
in full color and who is often to be found
sleeping by the roadside as he stumps
his vast electorate, had been promised
widespread support if he stood again for
the Federal seat. In fact he had already
begun campaigning. Sensing an elec-
tion was imminent, he had gone bush to
woo the aboriginal vote. (He reported
later that tribal elders looked approving-
ly on his bald head and congratulated
him: “You properly old feller. No more
young silly begger.”)
On his return to Darwin, “Tiger” an-
nounced he would stand down in favor
of Jock Nelson provided Mr Calwell
gave a written assurance that a Labor
Government would implement the recom-
mendations of the Legislative Council
Select Committee on NT political rights.
These include:. A fully-elected Council
or else one comprising 15 elected and
three nominated non-official members;
a seat in the Senate, and voting rights
for the Territory’s Member in the House
of Representatives; a Northern Territory
Public Service; power for the Council to
allocate its own Budget. Within days
Nelson forwarded the assurance on
behalf of Calwell.
Only cave-sitter Bill Penman declined
to join in the applause. Bill, who re-
gards politics as a bore and prefers to
prowl the Katherine caves clad only in
beard and narga (native breechclout),
had an announcement of his own to make.
On November 30, when the rest of Aus-
tralia is going to the polls, he will descend
into the caves and attempt to beat the
world solo cave-sitting record of 105 days.
THE ECONOMY
The Misguided Economists
But worth study
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
report of three American-based
* economists of the Stanford Research
Institute sponsored by the Australian
Development Research Association can-
not be said to add much to our know-
ledge of the possibilities and problems of
development. Some of its inferences are
misleading and could well be compared
with the impressive list of development
achievements enumerated by the Deputy
Prime Minister, Mr McEwen, in his
policy speech.
To take some samples: since 1949
700,000 more jobs have been found in
Australia, said Mr McEwen, 18,000 new
factories built, investment in industry in-
creased from £6O million to £3OO million
a year and a million new houses erected.
And at the present time 1,600 miles of
State railways are being reconstructed
and 2,500 miles of beef roads built,
4i million acres of Queensland scrub
are being converted into cattle pastures,
massive minerals developments, vast
water conservation and power projects
are in train.
This is not to say that the report pre-
pared under the Bendigo-born economist
J. B. Concliffe, who has lived most of his
life in New Zealand and the Northern
Hemisphere, won’t be worth deep study
and consideration by the wide ranging
list of Governments and public bodies
who’ve been sent copies or by the public.
But it is a bit too much to be told by this
second-hand source that timidity of enter-
prise threatens to allow the rich resources
of the country to pass into foreign hands.
Again, there is a good deal of sense
in the report’s idea that we should have
a list of priorities for development, but
does anybody seriously suggest that the
Department of National Development
has failed to compile one and has not
been revising it progressively in the light
of the momentous new discoveries of
resources here since 1950 or that the
Loan Council has been asleep all these
years? Anybody who does so is not in the
local picture. The main problem is not
in lists of priorities but in the in-
adequacy of capital and the economic pro-
blems such as inflation that arise when
the attempt is made (as in 1960) to
carry out too many projects at the same
time. Possibly also we are short of
technicians, as the report suggests, but
this is no reason why this shou'd mean
we should forfeit our resources to
foreigners.
ABORIGINES
Minister’s Risk
Drink for the West’s “natives ”
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
iy|osT of West Australia’s 20,000
“natives”, within the meaning of
the Act, should be able to have a legal
drink soon although it will not be
a Christmas drink this year and only
perhaps an Easter drink next year after
a long, long Lent.
The legislation will probably be pro-
claimed about Easter after a campaign
to cushion the end of this prohibition era.
For farmer Mr Edgar Lewis, who
holds the double portfolio of Education
and Native Welfare, it was a hard fight.
Asked about the rumored Cabinet
differences on the legislation he replied,
“Cabinet’s approval was unanimous it
always is.”
Meanwhile the new Act gives the right
to drink unrestricted except in certain
areas to be proclaimed.
This is an appeasement to the organi-
sations who have lined up against it and
pastoralists, who have claimed they would
quit their stations if their natives had
access to grog.
Some members of the Australian
Hotels Association were against it on the
basis of hygiene. 111-defined as the limita-
tions are, Mr Lewis says they are
intended to cover only primitive natives.
As a farmer near Moora, which has
more natives than any other town in the
agricultural area, Mr Lewis is leading
with his chin in putting forward this legis-
lation.


Around Adelaide
A CHERRY GROWER CRIES FOR THE MOON
Ane of the more imaginative plans
to enliven the city of Adelaide
for its Festival of the Arts next March
is to cover the whole of the facade of
one of the new 10-storey glasshouse
buildings with sheets of colored plastic
to make a gigantic abstract painting.
The only difficulty is that for the
fortnight of the festival the workers
behind the abstract painting would
work in many-tinged offices. But the
plan is rather a symbol of what faces
Adelaide in its festival —superimpos-
ing the arts on a commercially-minded
city (Adelaide, once the city of church-
es, now has far more business houses
than steeples reaching towards its
Mediterranean-blue sky).
Another plan of the decorating com-
mittee was to have huge representa-
tions of emus, two with fledglings to
represent the first two festivals, the
third sitting on an egg to represent
the next festival. However, this idea
was discarded, perhaps because it
might unfortunately be interpreted to
mean that with its third festival
Adelaide might lay an egg.
So “there are problems,” say the
festival officials, and each one goes
about with his particular problem
hugged to his chest. One is to give
the festival an “image,” something
which cannot be done with outsize
abstracts or papier - mache emus.
Festival people are agreed that their
festival may never develop the charac-
ter of some of the European ones with
tradition and time behind them. It is
also still impossible to develop a
theme. People want a bit of every-
thing. This time they are indeed get-
ting a bit of everything, so that the
programmes look a trifle scrappy. The
bit of everything has been rushed in
to fill the heart-breaking gaps left by
the cancellations of both the Glynde-
bourne Opera Company and the Strat-
ford, Ontario, Company.
Opera will now be served with pro-
ductions of Walton’s “Troilus and
Cressida,” Verdi’s “Macbeth” and
“Carmen.” However, the Stratford,
Ontario, company will not come
simply because, with opera at His
Majesty’s, Adelaide hasn’t got an
adequate theatre. Stratford, Ontario,
understandably will not jeopardise its
reputation. So instead there will be
Shakespeare’s “Henry V”, with John
Bell, in a tent theatre.
It is now very obvious to everyone
connected with the festival that the
city needs a festival hall and/or
theatre. “We do not want a cultural
centre,” one Adelaidean said blandly.
“Adelaide itself is a cultural centre.”
Outsiders might grant that it is—for
two weeks every two years. At other
times the veneer wears pretty thin.
At present Adelaide, the cultural
centre, is about the only capital
city not building a major hall for
music or drama. Sydney, Melbourne,
Perth, Canberra, even Wagga, NSW,
are ahead. And it is only optimists
who believe that Adelaide will have a
hall for the 1966 festival.
Whatever they do get will have to
be paid for without lotteries or poker-
machines. The Premier, Sir Thomas
Playford, has offered £400,000 out-
right and £400,000 on loan to build
a £1,000,000 concert hall with the City
Council finding the remaining
£200,000, or raising it by public sub-
scription. This £1,000,000 was to build
an apron-stage theatre.
However, when the artistic director of
the festival, Professor John Bishop,
took the plans along to Sir Thomas,
Sir Thomas pointed out, as he has in
many other circumstances, that he
was “only a simple cherry-grower”,
and that when he was at the theatre
he “liked to see the moon come up”.
Professor Bishop admits that Sir
Thomas may get a theatre with a con-
ventional proscenium so that he can
see the moon come up, but that theatre
and hall will cost £2,500,000.
Sir Thomas, more at home in his
cherry orchard than at “The Cherry
Orchard,” points out, too, that a com-
mittee sat for three years to investi-
gate the state of the arts in South
Australia. “They compiled a report
and a very handsome one it is, too,”
he says. “I’ve got a copy of it some-
where, and so has the Ford Mayor,
I’ve no doubt, but I’m sure that nobody
ever looks at it.”
However, with his wonderful en-
thusiasm Professor Bishop may get
either a concert-hall or a theatre by the
fifth festival in 1968. If it is one or
the other, which will Professor
Bishop, who as head of the Elder Con-
servatorium has been accused of
favoring music over drama, choose?
He says he is prepared to leave that
to others to decide. He insists that,
in spite of the fact that the next
festival will offer only “Henry V”,
the 13th-century play with music, “The
Play of Daniel,” and the Black Theatre
of Prague, he has no bias for music
over theatre. It is mainly that Strat-
ford, Ontario, is not coming and that
in Australia there are several full-time
orchestras available but as yet no pro-
fessional theatre companies.
Also there is the difficulty of getting
suitable plays. This year the drama
committee turned down Patrick
White’s “Bald Mountain”, but there
has been no repetition of the outcry
which arose two years ago when it
turned down his “The Ham Funeral”.
In the intervening period many people
have seen Mr White’s “The Ham
Funeral” and “The Season at Sarsa-
parilla”. “Bald Mountain” will be
produced at the Union Hall during
the festival but will not be part of it.
The festival tried to get Rattigan’s
“Ross”, but rights are held by a com-
mercial management.
The Adelaide Festival really works
under difficulties. It is on for only
two weeks every two years and it is
only by chance that artists it wants
are available then. It is not linked
to other festivals, as are most Euro-
pean ones. These get their artists
through agents. Adelaide, by planning
its festival along its own lines, rejects
this easy way out.
For performance rights it must
compete with every commercial man-
agement, and, also, it seems, with the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust. Some of
the festival people say that they were
first with the idea of bringing Arn-
hem Fand aborigines to dance pro-
fessionally in the South. The Trust
simply pinched the idea from them.
PAT ROLFE


m
mm
>.7
- msm
m
m
v>
»OCCv
mm
5?
of mines
and metals
Under a skin of earth lies incalculable national wealth and strength. Where the crump
of explosive sounds at the open cut, where bauxite or copper ores are won, where
coal cutters grind into the underground face, where silver, lead and zinc are
mined and refined, where red iron ore becomes finest steel, products of the
Dunlop Industrial Products Division are incessantly in harness.
Hoses tear at the open face. Conveyors ride ore to surface. Rubber-lined tanks and tables are
assistants in flotation processes. Where mines and metals are operative words rubber products
some large, others small combine with men and machines to produce the final, shining
ingots, the finished slabs and sheets, the minerals the world wants. When talk and action
involves mines and metals, the Dunlop Industrial Products Division knows best of all the
techniques, the real requirements.
the more you use rubber, the more you need
DUNLOP
<U7
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS DIVISION


The Cult of the Surfie
Records , magazines and films on the crest of a wave
By CHARLES HIGHAM
It has already reached the status of an
obsession. It has been compared with
mountain-climbing, ski-ing down a
snow-slope, and sex. Each year, a hand-
ful of devotees dies trying it. The sport
has thrown up idols, gods and demigods.
Mention Midget Farrelly, the teenage
Australian world surfboard champion,
and you may provoke a scream around
the office. Now, tossed up by a wave of
unprecedented popularity, a whole sub-
culture has exploded on the local scene:
books, records, magazines, television
documentaries, music programmes and
films. Only the theatre has found the
cult resistible, not to say impossible to
accommodate.
Sydney, like Honolulu, Los Angeles
and Durban, is ready-made for a cult of
this kind. Surfboards in Sydney, regis-
tered like cars, numbered at last count
about 20,000 and the figure is still
growing. Different dates have been given
for the origin of the surf-boarding mania
in New South Wales, the most convincing
being 1915, when Honolulu’s massively
imperturbable swimming championship
winner Duke Kahanamoku flashed down
waves to admiring' Australian beach
crowds. Peter Lawford brought in the
Malibu board in 1954. Today, boards
come in several colors, are light enough
for a boy to carry, and at £.40 to £45
aren't outside the reach of our opulent
young.
The cultists have a uniform, of course.
Once it was a pair of Speedos, affection-
ately retained for seasons until the blue
had almost gone. Recently, it has grown
more elaborate, more bizarre: knee or
calf-length scarlet, blue and gold trou-
sers like those worn by toreros, tattered
shorts like those worn by the denizens of
Tobacco Road, and even, improbably,
hats (ranging from Thames boaters to
what appear to be inverted shopping bas-
kets).
Hair is often bleached, but the hard-
core of surfing enthusiasts scorn such
artificial aids to glamor. A few purists
insist on avoiding “hotdogging” the
elaborate, wayward method of riding
a wave so as to make it look like a
kind of water-borne vaudeville turn
although Midget Farrelly’s fondness for
this kind of jollification has improved its
reputation. A handful of really far-out
performers and surfing is becoming
more and more a performance may
stand on their heads or back to front
on the board. But this is only possible
with smaller waves: hit anything between
12 and 20 feet, and it’s a question of
playing straight and possessing an iron
discipline.
The danger for a surfer is consider-
able. Build is less important (Midget
Farrelly is no Johnny Weissmuller) than
ability, balance, courage and dedication
to waves. The roaring greenbacks can
make the blood sing, but they can also
break a limb or gulp the swimmer in a
rip. The ultimate goal is the “perfect
wave,” while the triumph looked for by
everyone is the conquest of Makaha—
Hawaii’s superb beach where the Inter-
national Surfing Championships are held
each year. Three who have gone to
Makaha are Bob Evans, Ben Acton and
Midget himself and their names are
as familiar to surfing addicts as Elvis
Presley or Bobby Rydell are to pop
music fans.
Of the three, Bob Evans is perhaps
the most complete all-round surf cultist.
He has been obsessed with the surf
since childhood, knows how to judge to
a fraction the quality of a wave, and
will travel thousands of miles to find it.
He has been to California, cramming
into two weeks an experience of every
beach the State had to offer south of
San Francisco. He has explored the
beaches of Oahu in the Hawaiian Islands,
and expects to return for a more thorough
academic examination of wave “quali-
ties” there. Out of his enthusiasm has
sprung a passion to make films for addicts
which reflect his almost poetic apprecia-
tion of the sport’s subtleties. In 1956, he
got his encouragement: California’s Bud
Browne, perhaps the most gifted surf-film
maker of today, arrived here for the
Olympics in 1956 and showed Evans his
inventive and lyrical movies. Immediately
Evans played his life's savings into
motion picture equipment.
Since then, Evans has spent thousands
on surf-films, both importing Browne’s
work and directing his own. He has also
begun a surfing magazine, “Surfing
World,” which has trebled circulation
since this time last year. His picture
“Surfing The Southern Cross” runs
100 minutes. It has been edited, and its
music-track dubbed, by Evans in his
living-room; to make it he had to swim
out into tricky surf with a 251 b. movie
camera in one hand.
Evans talks about waves with the in-
tensity and erudition of an antiquarian
talking about Etruscan pottery.. “Tre-
mendous mental concentration is needed
in making a surf-film because of the
difficulty and complexity of waves that
change all the time,” Evans says.
“Matching the shifts and changes on
the screen we have music that reflects the
feelings of all this. For instance, in my
next picture, which I am half-way
through, we have a Melbourne jazz group
called the McKinnon-Mendelssohn Quin-
tet. I do the narration myself.
“And it’s full of surfing language. There
are big crowds at our screenings, and at


m
*
%
%
w*
■*> t
r%
m
m
■»■ ■
V
m
v :;^-
■
m*.
m
*****
Sure-footed John Deere Equipment reaps rich rewards from woodlands
the world over. Each year, millions of board feet of lumber and
untold cords of pulpwood are sent to sawmills and paper mills for processing
into building materials and paper products. By providing a variety
of quality farm and construction equipment, and always dealing
on a basis of mutual advantage, John Deere aims to serve in over 125
countries as a continuing partner in progress.
JOHN DEERE AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN N.S.W.) BOX 4284. G.P.O. SYDNEY. AUSTRALIA
DISTRIBUTORS
AGRICULTURAL & INDUSTRIAL Q'ld.: Deering Machinery Pty. Ltd., Hastings Park, Kerry Road, Archerfleld. S.A.: Tractors (S.A.) Ltd., 696 Port Roacf,
Beverley. W.A.: Wigmores Machinery Pty. Ltd., Cnr. Great Eastern Highway & Koojan Ave., South Guildford. Tas.: Cameron & Sutherland (Sales) Pty. Ltd., 6 Collins
Street, Hobart. Branch at Cameron & Sutherland (Sales) Pty. Ltd., 330-336 Invermay Road, Launceston, N.T.: Hastings Deering (N.T.) Pty. Ltd., Stuart Highway, Darwin.
N.G.: Hastings Deering (New Guinea) Pty. Ltd., Port Moresby, Papua. N.G.: Hastings Deering (New Guinea) Pty. ltd., Lae. N.Z.: Gough, Gough & Hamer Ltd., 145
Cashel Street, Christchurch. INDUSTRIAL ONLY Distributors N.S.W.: J.D. Industrial Equipment, Horsley Road, Milperra. Vic.: Intrac, Cnr. Dougharty & Kylta
Roads, West Heidelberg, N. 23. AGRICULTURAL ONLY N.S.W.: W. & J. Farm Equipment Pty. Ltd., Mitchell Rd. & Coulson St., Alexandria. Vic.: John Deera-
Lanx Australia Pty. Ltd., 300 Ballarat Road, Braybrook.


some places like Kensington in Sydney
the noise is tremendous. You can’t hear
the sound-track.”
Bob Evans, with his still and movie
camera hymns to surfing, his magazine,
and his ceaseless travelling to size up
waves, is closely followed in his en-
thusiasm by a massive Manly police
detective, Ben Acton, who has also been
to Honolulu in pursuit of a championship.
Last March he wrote a surfing song,
“Hangin’ Five,” a reference to the five
toes of the foot which hang over the
front of a surfboard when an expert is
on the nose. Acton gave the song to
Col Joye, who had it recorded by the
Delltones, themselves surf-club members,
at Festival. With a guitar backing, the
Delltones briskly swing through the lyrics,
which contain references to “walking the
plank” (moving the feet from one end
of the board to the other) and other
surfers’ tricks.
Various people claim (not surprisingly)
to have originated the surf-music craze
in Australia. Exactly when it came here
from America is hard to determine, but
about last April Bob Rogers of 2SM and
the 2GB disc jockey team, among others,
jumped on the band-wagon. Ken Taylor
of 2GB told me: “I could see the surfing
music craze coming in as long ago as last
March. I immediately put the studio be-
hind it and our jockeys played it hard and
fast. The texture of the music was made
up of guitars, the sound of waves, and
drums. This was for a particular reason
obviously you couldn’t take a grand
piano or an organ to the beach.
“The stomp emerged from beach
dances because just about the only way
you could dance on the beach is to
stamp your feet in the sand. Obviously
some shrewd music man decided to
combine the stomp with surf sounds and
produce surf music.”
Graham Webb, surf-riding disc jockey
of 2GB, showed me some Of his fan mail
from addicts. One letter had 38 signatures
and a drawing of a surfie in tattered
trousers, menaced by a wave and cap-
tioned “The 2GB Man.” (I also met a
junior employee of the studio, a gnome-
like youth with a mop of yellow hair,
huge blue eyes and a line of surfing
lingo, who appeared to be a kind of
2GB cult mascot.)
The King
Johnny Devlin, once New Zealand’s
** answer to Elvis Presley, who re-
cently had one of his songs recorded by
Eartha Kitt, has undoubtedly been the
king of surf-lyric writers. He pours out
several a month, often working with ar-
rangers to produce a sound charged with
the excitement of surfing on the record.
Also big in the field is 24-year-old Dave
Bridge, a sleek, articulate guitarist in
lozenge-shaped cufflinks, who writes
numbers in collaboration with EMl’s Joe
Halford: their record “Surfing Down
Under,” played by the Dave Bridge
Trio, has been a deserved success of the
current season.
Another big figure in surfing music is
singer Roland Storm, who has the ad-
vantage of a shock of blonde hair and a
life-saver’s build. There are the Atlantics,
a highly-skilled quartet whose “Bombora”
is the most electrifying number Australia
has yet contributed to the cult. Also
famous in local circles is Little Pattie,
a tiny, 14-year-old girl with nervous eyes
whose best-known song has the classic
title “He’s My Blond-Headed, Stompie-
Wompie, Real Gone Surfer Boy.” These
last perform at Surf City, a hectic teen-
age night club which has succeeded “The
Bird Cage,” Peter Bergin’s ill-fated ven-
ture in Sydney’s Kings Cross.
Originator of the surf-music craze was
a young rock-’n’-roll exponent called
Dick Dale, who at a California dance
session created the stomp —now prob-
ably the most popular dance among
teenagers both here and in the States.
Dale himself is a keen surfer, and his
enormous personal popularity springs
from the fact that he both looks and
sounds like any youngster who is crazy
about the water. From Dale’s pioneering
work a score of American surf musicians’
groups has sprung. Among them are the
Marketts, the Ventures, the Challengers,
the Lively Ones, the Surfaris, the Chan-
tays, the Beach Boys and Dick Dale’s
own Del-Tones. Their J2in. records have
names like “The Surfing Scene,” “Surf-
ing,” “Surf Beat,” “Surf Drums,” “Wipe
Out,” “Pipeline,” “Surf Rider,” and
“Surfin’ Safari”; with characteristic know-
how, EMI in Australia have brought out
16 of these hit discs in Australia, featur-
ing the original American cover notes.
A characteristic example is Phil Wilson’s
blurb for “My Son,_ The Surf Nut”
which runs: “Through the mysterious pro-
cesses of evolution, a new species has
recently arisen: Surf-nut robustus. Attired
in aboriginal garments not unlike those
of pre-historic man . . . this mammal
roams the sea-shores of our coastal cities
in search of new outlets for his marine
compulsions.” The same record contains
a “surf-nut’s” vocabulary. Sample burst:
“Beach Dolly: wind her up and she says
‘shoot me some bleach booby’ “Hang
Ten”: what the internal revenue service
plans to do to 10 surfboard makers
who neglected to pay their income-tax.”
Among the numbers on “My Son, the
Surf Nut” are “The Monster Surfer,”
played by Frank N. Stein (say it fast) and
the Abdominable Surf Men; “Sax Now,
Surf Later,” played by Hangten Horowitz;
and “Some Gremmie Stole My Hair
Bleach,” played by Knotknees McGurdy
and The Drop Outs. Other beach record
covers are comparatively sane; the Aus-
tralian equivalents are positively square
by comparison.
The New Idiom
Tn both America and Australia a spec-
ial surfing idiom has emerged, totally
incomprehensible to the layman. Some
surf record covers are like Zulu, man,
although others are comparatively liter-
ate. A few essay some explanations of
what th’ craze is all about, as, for
example, the Ventures’ record “Surfing.”
Part of the sleeve-note goes: “Plummeting
down a hill of moving green water and
being able to move your board right
or left up or down is a feeling
akin to flying, to ski-ing, and to sailing.
The difference in surfing is that not only
are you moving, but the force you’ve
harnessed is also moving. That is, until
you take a wipe-out; wipe-out is a spill
- a dump in the surf and no dis-
grace, as the unpredictable waves often
heave forward, spelling ‘end’ to a surfer’s
ride.”
Sleeve pictures show surfers coming
in on highly photogenic waves and are,
for the most part, extremely eye-catching.
One exception, “Surfing Safari,” shows
the Beach-Boys (five in all) sitting on a
souped-up jalopy and gazing out at a very
flat Californian ocean, but most sleeves
expertly convey the excitement of the
sport.
The similarity of life in, say, Santa
Monica or Malibu and North Narrabeen
is obvious to anyone who has visited
these places. That the surf-music craze
originated in California is, one feels, al-
most an accident, rather than another
case of that inevitable progression by
which anything American immediately
lays the local kids in the aisles.
But all this is, of course, alien to the
real surfing addicts who see the music
craze as more appropriate to the “surfies”
bleached land-lubbers who spend more
time sipping milk-shakes than sampling
the foam crests. The hard-core enthusiasts
tend to look down on the milkbar mobs
in their black sweaters and blue jeans,
driving up the coast each weekend in
their buzzing mini-cars and souped-up
jalopies, talking of sex, music, and waves,
probably (and shamefully) in that order.
Yet another category are the “squares”


uniformed, hard-trained mem ers of
the nation’s 226 life-saving club, who
rescue over 6000 people a year (and
4127 in NSW last season). To the alarm
of life-saving officials, more and more
“squares” are turning surfie, and prefer
cars, music and girls to the job of life-
saving on Saturday and Sunday after-
noons.
The “hard-core” is anxious about the
effect the “surfies” are having on their
reputation. A mention of surfies is apt
to cause a scornful response.
“You won’t find surfies on the boards,
or very few of them,” said one youth.
“Sure, we’ve had them with us, but we
got rid of them. They destroyed things,
acted the fool, brawled. They give you a
bad name. But the trouble is that when
you get rid of them from your own
group, they form groups of their own;
then there is no one to control them.”
Once in the small fraternity of cham-
pion surf-riders, one is immediately con-
scious of a world removed both from the
frantic surfie cult and the rather staid
and pedantic atmosphere of the life-
savers’ clubs with their puritanical dis-
cipline and severe emphasis on fitness.
Farrelly, Robert Young and other top-
flight surfers are the high priests of a
religion as sacred to them as life itself.
They think of work and food as mere
intervals between waves. They are likely
to have a special stance on land: head
very erect, face turned slightly upwards
towards the sun. They will probably be
scarred by falling surfboards. They make
minute studies not only of the shape and
style of waves but of the rocks, sand or
coral base on which they roll.
I asked Kevin Platt, one of the leading
surfboard riders in the country, what it
was that had driven him to a total ob-
session with the sport.
“Well, it's a combination of a sense
of danger and of speed but above all
there’s the feeling of wanting to conquer
the sea.
“You feel yourself pitted against some-
thing much bigger than you are and you
want to be bigger. But then if you’ve ever
had a day of perfect waves you come
inshore the feeling you’ve got them
beaten is a bad one you lose the
challenge.”
What was it that separated the fanatic
from the regular surfboard rider? “Chiefly
I'd say it's that while you’re out there
you don't think about anything except
waves.
“And you think about them a good
deal of the time while you’re on shore,
All responsibility for election comment in this
issue is taken by Peter Hastngs, of 252 George
Street, Sydney.
too. I often talk over waves —the ‘aesthe-
tics’ of waves with friends.
“You learn to separate out the different
kind of waves. Before long the whole
thing is a way of life. Everything else in
life is secondary after that.”
Size of waves is less important than
“quality.” And it is in the search for that
quality, the constant quest for the Great-
est Wave in the World and the need to
express that imagined vision through the
arts, that much of the new surf sub-
culture has triumphantly emerged.
SELECTED SURFING GLOSSARY
SURF TALK FOR PEOPLE
YOU KNOW
Cork Top: A surfer.
Gremlin: A misbehaving larrikin.
Goofy Foot: An oddball (a Goofy Foot,
often left-handed, surfs with the
wrong foot forward).
Highway Surfer: A phoney (a Highway
Surfer who goes to the beach with his
surfboard on top of his car . . . and
spends all his time driving up and
down the highway).
Hodad: A loudmouth.
Hot Dogger: An expert.
Kook: A beginner.
Pearl Diver: A loser.
Tag-a-Long: A girlfriend (or boyfriend).
Wahini: A girl surfer (in Hawaiian,
Wahini means girl).
SURF TALK FOR THINGS
PEOPLE DO
Bail Out: Jump off a wave if it’s too big.
Bomb Out: To flunk or fail (a surfer
bombs when he takes a spill).
Catch a Rail: To be dropped (a surfer
Catches a Rail when the edge of the
surfboard cuts into the water and the
surfer is thrown).
Hot Dogging: Trick-riding.
Over the Falls: To be dropped (a surfer
is sent Over the Falls when his board
is washed over the curl of a breaking
wave).
Soup: The foam on a breaking wave.
Surfs Up: Big surf.
Swell: An unbroken wave.
Top Rack: A rack to hold surfboard on
top of car.
Tube: The hollow part underneath the
curl of a breaking wave.
Tunnel: Same as the tube.
Wax: Paraffin used to provide a non-
slip surface on the surfboard.
Wall: The steep portion of a big surf
about to break.
White Water: Same as Soup.
Woody: An old station wagon with a
wooden body (used by surfers as
transportation to and from the beach).
"I'm a surfie, he's a rocker!"


OUT AND ABOUT
Dave Allen
“I don't like people being pushed around ”
By CHARLES SRIBER
«rTV iERES nothing really new about
this type of show. In fact it’s
one of the oldest concepts of
TV,” Dave Allen, star of the weekly hour-
long show, “A Night With Dave Allen,”
stopped his pacing, threw out his hands,
made a circling movement and dropped
them, “but it takes a lot out of a man.”
The scene was his dressing-room at Syd-
ney's Channel 9 studios where he had
just finished the show, finished autograph-
ing countless pieces of paper, books and
photographs and finished blarneying with
the Irish National Dancers.
“Have a beer?” He pulled a bottle
out of a carton, dexterously knocked off
the stopper on the edge of the makeup
table and handed it to me. “No glasses.
You’ll have to drink out of the bottle.”
Dave Allen is making marked progress
with a type of show that has been tried
before. The formula is for professionals
interspersed with live interviews, the
whole kept precariously together with
more or less ad-lib “patter.”
Allen treats commercials as unfortunate
interruptions that will get no reverence
from him. Not a sponsor has complained
so far. In fact, “A Night With Dave
Allen” is one of the few Australian shows
to mark up steadily improved ratings
since its inception last June.
Who are his fans? I asked around and
found the people who pride themselves
on being above the normal run of TV
fare like Allen. Elderly women and teen-
agers write him enthusiastic letters. The
hep crowd are still suspicious, but con-
cede he is the nearest to a far out
comedian on the TV screen so far.
But it’s by no means all orchids. Many
frankly hate him and condemn his show
as a hotchpotch affair, inexpertly
handled and relying on the quality of the
interviewees for any merit that may ad-
here to it. One letter began: “Congratula-
tions on your faultless example of ill
manners, ignorance and sheer rude-
ness ...” The writer referred to an
interview with Shelley Berman that had
angered her.
“She was mad that a commercial in-
terrupted things,” Allen wailed. “Dammit,
this isn’t the ABC. We’ve gotta have
sponsors. We discussed it with Berman
before the show and he agreed on the
cut for a commercial.”
£ut fan mail far outnumbers the com-
plaints. He handed me a bundle that
seemed mostly in feminine juvenile scrawl
demanding pictures autographed, of
course and raving about Dave Allen
and his show.
He didn’t know how many letters he
received. Hundreds, he thought.
A chronic worrier, adverse reviews
dispatch the infectious smile promptly
and he is plunged into despondency and
frantic fingernail-biting. But. at 27, this
slim young Irishman has done rather
well for himself since the days not
very long ago when he did comedy
patter at workingmen’s clubs at 10s. a
time.
Far from “sharp” in his dress, Allen
has thick, black hair brushed sideways
over a slightly irregular face with a lop-
sided smile that is an obvious aid to
female support. He strenuously dis-
sociates himself from “professional Irish-
men,” yet he is equally anxious that his
Irish ancestry be established. “I have an
Eire passport, you know.”
He has the slightest of brogues and a
rather jerky manner that gives a wound-
up effect. With producer John Collins,
he builds the show around a list of inter-
views and acts, never knowing exactly
how things will pan out and not too fet-
tered by time ANWDA runs over its
hour and the stage is a madhouse of
activity with Collins frantically sema-
phoring him from off-camera or scrawding
messages on the back of Glo-weave shirt
boxes.
John Collins has produced stage shows
for Sydney’s Chevron Hilton for some
time now and is the booking agent for
the big name stars that play the hotel’s
Silver Spade room. This is an obvious
advantage that has brought to ANWDA
such names as Eartha Kitt, June Christy
and Shelley Berman.
TV magazines have tried to link Allen
with Eartha Kitt in what is commonly
known as a romantic vein. True they
did see a lot of each other during the
American singer’s month-long engage-
ment at the Chevron and she did make
two impromptu appearances in his show.
He told me of long talks they had had
together, but I got the impression that it
was more a meeting of restless minds.
Collins, who keeps an office on the
Chevron’s 13th floor, told me how the
show is planned. “We sit around and toss
in ideas until someone says, ‘That’s a
good idea.’ When we get to that we keep
it in.”
Although a script writer produces some
of the prepared lines, much of the best


for people with strong ideas about coffee
(and its price)
Nescafe Espresso is a stronger, richer coffee. Specially
prepared for the one person in three who prefers more
strength, more full-bodied flavour than you find in regular
instant coffees, it is a strong, high roast instant coffee
for strong-minded people who appreciate only the best.
And now Nescafe Espresso is at a new popular price.
Nescafe espreSSO
INSTANT
COFFEE
NE3O6


of Dave Allen is spontaneous, based on
his. ability to come up with the apt remark
that could squelch drunks and win the
audience to him in the rough and tumble
of pub and club entertainment in Britain.
Allen was born in Templeouge, about
eight miles from Dublin. “That means
the shrine of the little people, or the
shrine of eternal youth take your pick.
Anyway, in ancient times it was a temple.
‘Ouge’ is Gaelic for ‘young.’
“I remember getting into trouble at
school trying to make the kids laugh
when they should have been studying.”
As a boy he went to stay with relatives
in Bedford, Massachusetts, and it was
four years later that he returned to Ire-
land. But he was still restless and left
home for England where he landed a job
as a Redcoat in a Butlin holiday camp.
“That started me off. Quite a lot of
show people began with Butlin’s. When
the season ended I stayed with it, began
getting one-night stands at clubs, pubs,
anywhere. In between I worked as a
brickies’ laborer, in a soap factory, dig-
ging ditches anything. All the time I
was getting slowly ahead. They were pay-
ing me 255. when a comic got sick and
I was booked for a real theatre in North-
ampton.
“I teamed up with a partner and we
started on a Monday. We rocked them
a great show. Then on Tuesday we went
out and died on our feet.”
After appearing on the BBC show
“New Faces,” he was engaged to work
with singer Adam Faith and stayed with
him for some years. He has appeared in
New York and London and feels his
success in Australia part of the march
to “get up there.”
Although much of his show is buffoon-
ery, he yields to interesting personalities
and one of his highlights was the inter-
view with Captain Fifita, the Tongan sea
captain of Minerva Reef fame.
He kept the camera on the bearded
captain who, in lilting accent, told the
story of the stranding that cost the life
of his son. Allen was visibly affected and
said of the interview, “It made me feel
very humble.”
He appears to have a genuine feeling
for people, greets personally an old Scot-
tish woman who hasn’t missed one of his
shows in the studio audience. “I don’t
like people being pushed around. And
yet it happens to all of us. It begins when
we're babies. They pick us up, slap hell
out of us and we’re alive whether we
want to be or not.”
He has enlarged on TV his theory
about the baby who throws away the
rattle: “a monstrous thing—l’m sure
babies hate ’em and then someone
comes along, picks it up and hands it
back to them. See, frustrated all along!”
New York Newsletter
No Promotion—That
Side of the Ocean
Doing untold damage to Australia’s name
From JOHN SMITH
Early in October I saw for the first
time the new Australian fivepenny
stamp, designed no doubt to en-
courage our manufacturers to try and
send more of Australia’s products
abroad. It is also quite obvious that the
stamp was never meant to advertise our
country as an exporting nation, other-
wise the Postmaster-General in his wis-
dom would have chosen the 2s. or
2s. 6d. airmail stamps to put his message
across.
Looking at the stamp in New York,
it is obvious that the designer has un-
cannily anticipated my story. The stamp
shows the stream of exports by Jet (yet)
from the barren heart of our continent,
covering the tip of Africa, missing Asia
and Europe altogether, perhaps including
South America and Alaska on the other
side, only to go into orbit, whilst the
empty ship still faces the Antarctic.
Australian manufacturers have eyed
the US market for many years and are
now being encouraged by the Govern-
ment to do something about it. Both
would like nothing better than a good
bite at the American Cherry Pie but un-
fortunately they want to eat the pie and
still have it.
While this may be possible with under-
developed countries in Asia and Africa,
it is impossible on this side of the ocean,
and even more so on the New York
market.
New York is the world’s greatest
market, but very few Australian business-
men are prepared to meet the buyer
in this country even halfway. Our
manufacturers expect to sell what they
have brought with them in their little
Gladstone bags and get the shock of
their lives when they are told that their
merchandise in its design, color, size or
weight is unacceptable. Very often the
articles are a copy of similar American
goods or are a copy of last year’s
fashion, in which case Americans have
seen them a year ago already.
Even when our products are better in
price, quality and design and uniquely
Australian, they still have no earthly
chance of being sold unless our manu-
facturers make up their minds that they
want to export to the United States and
are prepared to meet fairplay with fair-
play.
Hundreds of Australian businessmen
stop over in New York for a week or
so and expect to take orders home with
them. They make appointments, waste
the time of their agents and buyers by
not having adequate samples and data
and then return home and are seldom
heard from again. Nothing infuriates a
buyer more than having given his valu-
able time to be ignored afterwards.
This then is the atmosphere which
I faced when I arrived in this city to
represent Australian firms. I was just
another Australian from Down Under
whom they would see once and never
again. When I told them that I intended
to stay permanently to provide a con-
tinuous representation for Australian
firms, they could not believe their ears
but nevertheless were prepared to give
me a hearing.


These are the dimensions of Alcoa aluminium
Alcoa are not content merely to make
aluminium. Respecting its talents, they
research its potentialities. In their hands
aluminium has become inspirational, in-
dispensable. Alcoa aluminium is helping
transform the world around us. Alcoa
take bauxite, our most common mineral,
and from it produce a metal with most
uncommon properties. Light enough to
be flown or floated, aluminium can face
the years and come out shining. It can
be tiny or towering, and made any colour
of the spectrum. It can be worked by
all known metallic processes, and its
abilities extended by alloying. Capable of
infinite variation, endless applications,
Alcoa aluminium is truly the metal of
tomorrow. Fortunately we have it today.
ALUMINIUM IS PROGRESS ... ALUMINIUM IS
•V-
-s/5 4
Mining:
DARLING RANGES
Refining:
% KWINANA
Smelting and
fabricating:
PERTH
■o
e£\'
wGEELONG
X-'J'sy <r
~ '—
0
ALCOA
AUSTRALIA
ALCOA OF AUSTRALIA
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
HEADQUARTERS AND SALES OFFICE: 155 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE. 67 6585.
mmm
a
'
This modern church shows Alcoa
yJ> %s ’
V'
T
m
m
m
>-■
m
Alcoa aluminium fittings and utensils make kitchens brighter, housework lighter.
Handy snap-top cans of Alcoa aluminium.
Rustless Alcoa aluminium is ideal for marine craft.
Alcoa aluminium cuts overall costs in the transport field.
A %
!:>:y:v:vWWSSSWS
W
T #
m*w
Alcoa aluminium roofing, walls, window frames add beauty; need no painting.
This free booklet will interest you
AOA26F.P.
In home-building alone, the applications of alu-
minium are unlimited. One of the outstanding
examples of its economy, practicality and beauty
is in window frames. Our booklet, “The
Advantages of Aluminium Window Frames”,
contains information invaluable to every person
about to build or renovate. Get your copy
now and learn how you can save money and
labour while adding charm and distinction
to your property.
<x>
Mail this coupon now to:
ALCOA OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 155 Queen St., Melbourne.
Please send me a copy of your free Alcoa Booklet “The Advantages
of Aluminium Window Frames”
NAME
ADDRESS


M
2
WA
The distinctive quality of
Coonawarra Estate Claret
is in part due to the pains-
taking practice of paddling.
It consists of plunging
down the marc with long-
handled wooden paddles
to keep it submerged in
the fermenting juice, thus
fully extracting the latent
flavour and bouquet in
Coonawarra Estate
Hermitage and Cabernet
Sauvignon grapes.
We particularly recom-
mend two of the recent
vintages:
CLARET
ifX
COONAWARRA ESTATE CLARET
1959 Vintage
COONAWARRA ESTATE CABERNET
1957 Vintage
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors: S. WYNN & CO. P/L
The Australian manufacturer who
wants to export successfully should very
seriously consider the following points
to avoid a waste of money and effort:
• Regardless of quality, anything
made in Australia is not necessarily
acceptable in its present state on'
this market.
• After a New York firm has been
approached by principal or agent
the matter must be pursued. A
buyer should not be ignored be-
cause things did not go right the
first time.
• Australians have to learn how to
answer their mail. We are well
known for our slovenly way of
replying after many weeks or not
at all. Air letters should be turned
about, when simple inquiries are
made, within eight to ten days.
• Intending exporters assume that
Americans will pay any price for
anything. This is the greatest fal-
lacy. The American public is the
most price-conscious in the world.
• The Australian manufacturer must
be prepared to spend money on a
sample range and to pack his goods
attractively. He must also be pre-
pared to spend money on adver-
tising.
• He should be familiar with ship-
ping rates, schedules and import
duties in order to calculate their
costs F. O. 8., C. I. F. and landed
costs. Goods must be keenly priced
in accordance with Government
concessions.
• If Australian manufacturers ad-
vertise in export journals, readers
abroad assume that they want to
export. They should be prepared
at least to answer trade inquiries.
I have in this fashion approached
several Australian firms who never
saw fit to even say “thank you for
your interest”. I know many firms
here which have had this very
same experience and think of us as
humbugs and have written us off.
Life as an agent for Australian firms
can be very tough. I had the agency
for an Australian knitting mill making
men’s pullovers and cardigans. I paid
for all 10 samples and, after offering
them on Madison Ave, was told that
although they could not be faulted in
quality and workmanship, they were too
heavily knitted for the US climate and
interior heating. A more loosely-knit
garment was needed. I relayed all the
information back to my principals in
Australia together with sketches from a
firm showing what they wanted. That
letter was not answered until three
months later. It came in an envelope
bearing a fivepenny stamp. It did not
refer at all to my long letter but merely
said that both partners had been sick.
On another occasion a prominent
tannery supplied me with samples of
their sheep and lamb skins. After
making inquiries for four days in the fur
district of New York, where everyone
took time off to acquaint me with their
needs and buying methods, I relayed this
information back to this firm. I also
asked for more samples and quotations
for interested buyers. Six months have
passed and no answer has been received
as yet.
Another firm whose product can’t
even be mentioned had completely and
falsely misstated their product’s quality
and claimed it was in use in Govern-
ment departments. Inquiries with the
latter proved otherwise.
I have kept the best story, however,
till last.
Before leaving Australia I had
obtained the agency for a certain woollen
product which seemed to have a fair
chance of being successfully sold on the
US market. I was supplied with samples
of the material from which the product
was made and export prices. In New
York I set out to interest store buyers
in our product. It was the wrong time
of the year for them but they neverthe-
less received me, since I had come all
the way from Down Under, and looked
at what I had to offer. They immediately
liked the quality of the product but
nothing else. The sizes were wrong, the
colors were not to their liking, the weight
was too great, and the finish was not in
keeping with a similar British import.
The price, however, was. acceptable.
The buyers of three very large depart-
ment stores and two buying houses were
sufficiently interested to tell me what
they wanted made by the Australian mill
so that our product might be able to
compete with others. They even gave
me pieces of our opposition’s materials
and their complete color range in order
to relay this back to my firm.
It could by then be safely assumed
that the Americans were interested. My
first request for new quotations on three
new sizes took six weeks and an urgent
telegram to answer. It was in turn
answered by another wire during the
seventh week. I was then asked why I
had no color charts as yet. Four weeks
later they arrived, too, but whilst our
English competitor supplied 10" squares
of material my Australian firm could
only spare H" square bits, hastily
pasted on a bit of cardboard. The buyers
went along with this also and now
wanted to see the real thing which they
needed for their meeting on October 8.
I informed my Australian firm that I
needed at least three articles for three
meetings of different buying houses.
That was at the beginning of June and
by the end of September I had in my
possession one complete sample.
Proudly I took the article to the buyer
of America’s largest and most prominent
buying house and unwrapped it in his
presence. We could not believe our
eyes. The sample was different from the
finished article; it was in fact far superior
in touch, feel and looks to what we had
just received. All this after eight months
of meetings and preparations. Surely a
mistake must have been made by the
packers in the warehouse. As there was
still time to get more articles from Aus-
tralia by air, I wrote at once to have the
matter rectified. For the first time in
eight months I received an immediate
reply stating, “If American firms want
to view their products with a magnifying
glass we are not interested to go into this
deal any further.”
Not only has this firm ruined their
chance forever of entering this market
but it also has done untold damage to
Australia’s name as an exporting nation.


it
VW8793
Big wheel.
For its size, the Volkswagen has big
wheels.
Not to make the car look different,
but to help make it ride as smoothly
as it does.
Big wheels cut down tyre wear, too.
Because the bigger the tyre, the less
often each part of it rubs the road. And
the longer it lasts.
This is one reason why VW owners
report such high tyre mileages.
Like Mrs. Peell of Carrum, Victoria.
She got 73,000 from a set of five tyres.
She missed the world record for VVV
currently 103,345 miles.
Another reason VW wears tyres slowly
is that each wheel carries relatively
little weight. Volkswagen wheels are as
big, or bigger, than the wheels of many
much heavier cars. So imagine the dif-
ference in friction as you corner. The
heavier the weight on the tyres, the
greater the friction, and the faster they
wear.
The bigger the wheel, the more pot-
holes you don’t feel. Your VW skips the
holes that trap the wheels of baby cars.
Big wheels are safer, too.
You get better traction on wet roads
and in mud and sand. And you don’t
get the wheelspin you do with baby
cars. Big wheels allow bigger, better-
cooled brakes that resist brake fade on
steep hills.
And that’s VW all over. Big on things
that matter.
Economy.
Reliability.
Durability.
Comfort.
Safety.
But most of all on ideas.
VWI2OO Sedans from £799 tax paid. (Price for State capital cities.)


A Quiet Evening of
" Nuclear Pornography”
A chat with Herman Kahn
By PETER KING
Herman Kahn received me at the
Hudson Institute in White Plains,
New York, where he has settled
since leaving Los Angeles and the
RAND Corporation. His Hudson In-
stitute belongs to the burgeoning family
of research establishments which vie in-
creasingly with the universities, Govern-
ment and each other for the services of
strategic experts. Typically, its mem-
bers work with classified material, are
closer to the Pentagon than the State
Department (although as much inter-
ested in politics as strategy), and have a
Stakhanovite approach to intellectual
production.
Kahn’s enormous physical proportions
are set in a Buddha-like mould, and the
calm, impersonal geniality of his round,
bespectacled face reinforces the impres-
sion of Oriental impassivity. However,
when he speaks this impression fades
quickly.
“Thinking About the Unthinkable” is
the title of Kahn’s second book, but its
views are somewhat less “unthinkable”
than those with which Kahn is presently
identified and which were dubbed
thermonuclear pornography. He has
mellowed under the influence of
his critics (of whom he resents not
most James R. Newman of “Scien-
tific American,” whose review be-
gan “Is there really a Herman Kahn?”
and who called “On Thermonuclear War”
a “moral tract on mass murder”!). I
found that Kahn would no longer regard
even a large civil defence programme
as an important strategic asset, but
merely as another sort of “insurance”
against the outbreak of war. This ties
in with his new attitude to what he
named “credible first-strike capability”:
he no longer thinks that the United States
has much chance of achieving this sort
of superiority vis-a-vis the Soviet Union,
although he believes that present Ameri-
can numerical and qualitative superiority-
in strategic weapons is an important poli-
tical asset, and he favors preserving it.
This is the key to the difference be-
tween conservative and radical strategists
in America today: most experts (and the
Administration, apparently) lean towards
Kahn; it is a protesting minority
(including the Army and the Navy)
who argue that small numbers of very
invulnerable “city-busting” weapons will
be adequate for strategic deterrence
henceforward.
He took me through the several pages
of “On Thermonuclear War” which deal
with the problems that face America in
keeping large weapon laboratories staffed
and active during a moratorium on
nuclear tests.
For every “difficult” in the text he
substituted an “impossible” to express his
real feeling. Weapon scientists I inter-
viewed elsewhere declared flatly that the
test moratorium of 1958-61 was a gambit
by the Soviets to paralyse American
weapon teams while the means of a mas-
sive technical advance were researched
and developed; but Kahn does not go so
far.
He is by no means a simple-minded
enthusiast for the arms race, as readers
of his works quickly realise. In fact, he
is in the camp of C. P. Snow, who has
predicted that, without drastic arms con-
trol or some political transformation,
civilisation will not be intact in 1980.
Bertrand Russell regularly dips deep in
the Kahn collection for fact and example.
However, Kahn is not going to join
the peace movement. He has consider-
able animus towards the groups of aca-
demics and others in East and West
Coast America who regularly buy ad-
vertisements which blast the fallout
shelter programme in the “New York
Times” and elsewhere. At his home,
later in the evening on which I inter-
viewed him, he took me on a guided
tour of the list of signatories of one such
piece. Stabbing at a name on the page,
he would say: “He knows better!” or
“That’s not what he told me last month.”
But Kahn is not an Edward Teller or a
Sidney Hook, both of whom insist that
the peace groups are the chief source of
war danger.
He has never said that thermonuclear
war is a desirable condition, and when he
says it might be “acceptable,” he means
acceptable to leaders as a matter of fact
rather than morally acceptable (usually).
Unlike some of the more insensitive ad-
herents of “minimum” or “counter-city”
deterrence, he has moved away from the
position, which is implied by some illu-
strative tables in “On Thermonuclear
War,” that Soviet cities must be de-
stroyed en masse if American retaliatory
power is drastically undermined by sur-
prise attack. He agreed with me that a
“city exchange” would be “ridiculous,”
I suggested that perhaps the problem
of isolated but disastrous nuclear acci-
dent is now the most acute one facing
the Great Powers. His response alarmed
me. He appeared to agree, but was not
troubled (as he put it) that junior officers
in the Strategic Air Command have more
power of life and death than they feel is
really necessary . . . “There is very little
precaution against collusion” in SAC, ac-
cording to Kahn; but he is nevertheless
an ardent admirer of its marvellous
morale and rigorous training. (“The
pilots have to know their targets the. way
they know their wives.”) Whether we
want good morale in nuclear weapon
crews was a question I did not manage
to raise. Kahn thinks it impossible to
increase safety substantially for
example, by giving the base commander
a physical veto over a roaming weapon
system —without undermining the deter-
rent threat by “factors.” We dropped
the subject with his not too comforting
reflection that the airmen and missileers
are so busy doing other things on duty
that they would never have time for col-
lusion in genocide.
Our evening concluded with a slightly
megalomaniacal monologue by him ex-
plaining what stupid strategists the Rus-
sians really are. He had proved at
RAND that a rational Soviet strategy
would seek first a large aerial refuelling
capability, almost a sine qua non for
long-range retaliatory strikes against
North America, according to Kahn.
Such a force has never been built, and
Kahn wistfully regretted that the Soviet
general staff had not seen fit to hire him
and a small circle of RAND confidants,
intolerant of strategic folly anywhere,
even in the camp of the Enemy.


The New Holden
a Last Word
Meccano-like simplicity
MOTORING
By BOADICEA
It is a great temptation to rush into
print as soon as a new model is
released and, after a usually all too
brief test run in an all too new car, make
statements concerning its performance
and handling. Almost invariably as the
months pass you find something show-
ing up which you failed to observe initial-
ly. With the case of a new Holden model,
which affects one out of every two motor-
ing Australians, the temptation to be first
with a “full road test” is obviously
overpowering to most editors, and motor-
ing writers pick quickly through the new
range with the urgency of women shop-
pers at a sale. The hard - nosed pro-
fessional road testers usually have a fairly
clear picture of ;vhat to expect in a new
model and the brief look and run suffice
to prove or disprove their thoughts.
The new EH Holden range is perhaps
unique in that findings at the release and
now, some months later, correspond. And
unique in that the new Holdens were
given a good chit by the writers, not all of
whom were recipients of GM-H’s cheerful
and easy hospitality at preview parties.
The story was in the new engine design,
the first since Holden’s birth in 1948, for
GM-H had finally decided to give their
customers the sort of power they hanker-
ed for and in one step the new Holden
with the 179 cubic inch “big” engine
overtook the power race leaders, Falcon’s
Pursuit and Chrysler’s Valiant, and led
them. Body styling changes were few but
cleverly emphasised the sturdy robust
look that GM-H has built into its cars
since the early models were considered
too light by the old-fashioned safety-
through-weight school which scorns mod-
ern monocoque construction and favors
the fortunately fast-disappearing heavy,
truck-like chassis type.
Holden handling has improved over
the years and the previous EJ model was
rated a good straight-forward handler by
the knowledgeable. The EH continues
this trend. That worrying subject, petrol
consumption, has long been a thorn to
prick the ad-man's optimism but it was
confidently expected to improve with the
larger but far easier working 2.4 and
2.9 litre engine The only real criticism
that was levelled at the EH range concern-
ed the brakes. Here it wasn't necessary
to be an expert or even go for a hard fast
drive, for it was apparent enough from
the specifications. Taking the optional
“179” engine, the increase in power over
the old engine is in excess of 50%, yet
the brakes have not been improved to
cope with the greatly stepped up perfor-
mance. Holden brakes have long been
the subject of heated discussions among
motorists and the cars have been labelled
as underbraked. Yet ask a good Holden
driver, an experienced commercial travel-
ler who travels far and fast, and he’ll say
the brakes are good enough. This I agree
with they were good enough, but not
any longer; and it is staggering to me that
GM-H has produced such a fine car, as
the EH undoubtedly is, and left its brak-
ing open to such wide criticism. Admit-
tedly the fitting of optional power brakes
partially solves the problem, but that is
not the real answer. The EH range de-
serves the perfection of disc brakes as
standard equipment.
T have covered a couple of thousand
A miles in various EH models the
manual 2.4 saloon, the automatic 2.9
wagon and that rare bird the manual
2.9 saloon known as the S 4.
All the vehicles were new to begin with
but were refreshingly free of minor ir-
ritations apart from one loose visor and
a window winder which came off. The
wagon had its share of squeaks but the
manual sedan and the S 4 were taut and
silent and the S 4 in particular was ter-
rific. In each case the engines were
delightfully smooth and quiet with their
seven main bearings and hydraulic valve
lifters. The new engine design is very
similar to America’s Chewy II with
many millions of miles behind it. The
Meccano-like simplicity makes for easy
and therefore cheap service. Miles-per-
gallon figures were interesting. Over 150
miles of open highway, mainly level go-
ing, averaging approx. 50 m.p.h., the big
wagon returned 25 m.p.g., the S 4 and the
2.4 sedan gave an astonishing 30.
During a tankful test of stop-start
motoring around town and suburbs, the
wagon gave 20, the S 4 22.5 and the
sedan 25.5. The wagon and the S 4 did
fast interstate runs, the wagon heavily
laden, with two up in each case. The
wagon’s m.p.g. was 23 and the S4’s 26.5,
cruising between 70 and 75 m.p.h. All
these figures give an improvement over EJ
figures ranging from 10 to 20%.
The big engines of the wagon and S 4
were impressively powerful with their
175 ft. lbs. of torque, and hills no longer
appear to exist on NSW’s highways. Ac-
celeration times for all three vehicles are
good, the S 4 naturally being the quickest
over the quarter mile at 19 seconds and
running away from the others in top gear
and clocking a genuine 95 m.p.h. Watch-
ing the Armstrong 500 at Bathurst this
year I was amazed at the S4’s top gear
pulling up the long mountain straight
where they had the legs of other cars
with claimed greater horsepowers. And
that GM-H can make its Holdens brake
with the best of them was convincingly
shown at the bottom of the li mile down-
hill straight where the S4s were braking
very late, yet safely, lap after lap from
over 100 m.p.h. These Holdens had spe-
cially imported brake linings designed for
competitive driving in the USA. It was
significant that no Falcon Pursuits were
entered against the Holdens in the 500,
Ford sensibly relying on the fast GT Cor-
tinas, which even without the Holden’s
wheel failures had the measure of the
larger cars.
However, the advent of the EH models
has made the plight of the Falcon even
more desperate, with already many thou-
sands of Falcons stockpiled throughout
the country. I found on test that the
lower geared steering on the EH vehicles
certainly lightened the effort for parking
and slow speed manoeuvring but at the
expense of accuracy at higher speeds on
the open road. More “wheel” was neces-
sary on winding roads and the EH’s steer-
ing tended to wander more off line than
did the higher geared steering of earlier
models.
The braking of the wagon and the
2.4 saloon left a lot to be desired, parti-
cularly if carrying a full load at any
speed. This should be a warning to
people who drag caravans and who find
the new Holdens admirable touring
vehicles with their new engines, par-
ticularly the “179”, and I suggest power
brakes are a must for safe touring.
When GM-H gives the new Holden
the brakes they deserve the cars can
rightly be claimed as giving more of
everything for the money.


VAT 69
More than a Gift..
aTribute
MORE THAN A SCOTCH... A TRADITION
All over the world, this fine old Scotch Whisky is
given with pride, and received with pleasure and
appreciation. So it has been for a hundred Christmases
past; long may it continue to express feelings of good-
will and good cheer throughout the festive season!
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY
QUEEN ELIZABETH I!
scotcTh whisky distillers
WM. SANDERSON & SON LTD.
Special gift carton
NZL 21/10.4C


SCIENCE AND MEDICINE
The Body’s Self-Defence
Just over 70 years ago von Behring
and Kitasato, two of the pioneers of
the then very young science of bac-
teriology, reported an observation that
was a landmark in the history of medi-
cine. This was that several weeks after
being injected with a small dose of tetanus
toxin animals contained in their, blood
substances capable of neutralising the
toxin. The same result was obtained after
the injection of diphtheria toxin.
From this observation flowed an im-
mensity of work which not only explained
how the human body copes with infecting
organisms but also provided us with one
of the most effective methods of protect-
ing it against the dire results of such in-
vasion. As so often happens in biological
research the work done has raised almost
as many problems as it has solved, and
at the present day the work on immuno-
logy is leading deep into the fields of
protein chemistry. So much so that, as
Professor A. A. Miles points out in his
introduction to a symposium on “Anti-
bodies” in the current issue of the “Bri-
tish Medical Bulletin”, it is “hard at times
to decide whether protein chemistry is
illuminating the problem of antibodies or
antibodies are illuminating the problems
of the biosynthesis, metabolism, and
molecular structure of the plasma
globulins.”
Be that as it may, the publication of
this symposium provides an admirable
opportunity of reviewing the salient fea-
tures of the immunity reaction of the
body to infection.
The ability to overcome invasion by
pathogenic organisms is, of course, one
of the principal requirements for the
survival of all multicellular species. In
most invertebrates this is achieved by
means of cells known as phagocytes
which ingest and destroy the invading
organisms, or of enzyme mechanisms
which destroy them directly.
In vertebrates, including man, such
phagocytic cells also exist and they are
the first line of defence when the body
is invaded. The classical example is the
common or garden boil which consists
of a collection of such cells which have
been rushed to an area where an invading
organism usually a staphylococcus
has penetrated the skin and is threatening
to spread through the body. This collec-
tion of phagocytic cells —or polymor-
phonuclear leucocytes as they are tech-
nically known—is what we know as pus
and unless the invading organism is
particularly virulent —they usually man-
age to localise the infection and so save
the victim from a blood-spread infection,
or septicaemia.
From the long-term point of view,
however, there is a much more important
mechanism. This is the production of
what are known as antibodies. These have
been defined as “globulin molecules
modified so that certain ‘active points’
combine with ‘determinant groups’ on
the antigen molecule”. Antigen is the
term applied to any foreign substance,
such as a micro-organism, which evokes
an antibody response when introduced
into the body. According to current
views, “an antigen molecule is thought
to be provided with a surface divided,
like a mosaic, into ‘determinants’ of small
individual size which, because of their
foreignness in the animal injected, stimu-
late the production of complementary
antibody molecules. The specificity of
the antibody response is determined by
the chemical configuration within such
areas”.
The precise nature of this antigen-
antibody reaction is still obscure, and
the experts are not prepared to go beyond
the generalisation that “specificity of the
antibody lies in the complementary
spatial configuration of the reactive atoms
or atomic groups”.
Whatever the nature of the reaction,
the important thing about it is that it
works. In practice this means when a
micro-organism invades the body it acts
as an antigen and provokes an antibody
response. These antibodies link up with
the microbial antigen and nullify its toxic
action. From the point of view of im-
munity it matters not whether the antigen
enters the body as part of a natural in-
fection or in the form of a vaccine. The
response, for all practical purposes, is
the same. The body is provided with a
supply of antibodies which protect it
against the current infection—and any
subsequent infection with the same micro-
organism. The duration of this pro-
tection varies. With some infections, such
as measles, it may well be lifelong. With
others, such as pneumonia, it tends to be
short-lived. On the whole, the duration
tends to be longer with natural infection
than following the administration of a
vaccine.
Much more is known about the source
of antibodies than of their mode of
action. They are associated with a com-
plex group of proteins known as
y-globu!in. The total y-globulin of the
body is about 80 grammes in healthy
adults, and it is equally distributed
between the circulating blood and fluid
which is distributed throughout the tissues
of the body.
The active part played by y-globulin
in this sphere is well illustrated by what
happens in chronic malaria. A recent in-
vestigation showed that in Gambian
adults chronically exposed to malarial
infection the average rate of y-globulin
synthesis was about seven times that
observed in Europeans. When Gambian
adults were protected from infection by
regular administration of prophylactic
drugs, the average daily synthesis of y-
globulin fell by 3.5 grammes.
The main source of the y-globulin is a
group of cells known as small lympho-
cytes. These are produced in what is
know'n as the lymphatic system of the
body which includes the spleen, the
lymph nodes, and the bone marrow. In
the initial differentiation of this lymphoid
system the thymus plays an important
part and, as recently reported in “Science
and Medicine”, much has been learnt in
recent years of the importance of the
thymus in this context —particularly in
relation to the successful transplantations
of organs of the body, such as the kidney.
In the new-born infant the lymphoid
system is poorly developed, and it is not
until the fourth to twelfth week of life
that the infant begins to produce his own
y-globulin, and the normal level of
y-globulin in the blood is not achieved
until the child is at least six months old.
This apparent vulnerability of the new-
born and young infant is counteracted
by the fact that he acquires y-globulin
from the mother during pregnancy, and
when born his concentration of y-globulin
in the blood is approximately equal to
that of the mother.
This passively acquired y-globulin con-
tains antibodies which provide the infant
with protection against at least some of
the diseases for which the mother has
acquired antibodies —though not necess-
arily all of them. (“The Times,” Lon-
don)


REPORT TO THE NATION
Tt
727 JET l
Cm
m ms
V ’ •>-
•«■ '
SOT*
&9 irwia i
JETUN
VH-TJA
NATION*
mmmm mmm i J
SSff mmt ®
mmmg®
«& ff
. ...., «
'<* ■
IF
f
! im
MB.
L*WS
4
«*■
hen*;
How the TAA 727 T-Jet will look at the recently completed TAA Sydney Air Terminal .
. • " •• • • ~n"
TAA-A SUCCESSFUL BUSINESS ENTERPRISE
TAA earned a record profit 0f£534,957 in 1962-63 in a year
of intense business competition.
TAA, like any public company, must pay its way by
earning profits. This is TAA’s eleventh successive profit.
TAA PAYS TAXES. The profit was declared after pro-
viding for all taxes and charges normally met by other
commercial enterprises.
TAA, like any Australian Company, is subject to income
tax, payroll tax, sales tax etc., and has to pay special taxes
on aviation fuel and air route charges, as well. Total tax
commitment this year was over £1 million including an
income tax provision of £356,637.
Allowance of £1,797,652 was also made for depreciation of
aircraft and £506,188 on ground equipment a total of
£2,303,840.
TAA PAYS 7% DIVIDEND. TAA has an operating
capital of £7,500,000 that remained constant during the
year. From its profit it provided for a 7% dividend of
£525,000 to the Commonwealth Treasury. The dividend was
one percent higher than the target fixed in advance by the
Minister for Civil Aviation.
RECORD YEAR OF PROGRESS. In the face of vigorous
competition within the airline industry and from other
forms of transport, TAA became the first Australian Airline
to carry over 1 j million passengers in a single year. The
Airline’s strong commercial approach to business contri-
buted to the achievement of this result.
NEW HOLIDAY SERVICES. TAA this year introduced
Fly-Away Holidays, a new concept in holiday thinking that
has brought the whole of Australia within most people’s
holiday planning. This new holiday service has proved an
outstanding success, sales of the Travel Service Depart-
ment being up 32% on last year.
NEW JET-AGE TERMINALS. TAA has pursued a
record building programme in expanding passenger and
cargo facilities during the year. Thirteen new TAA City and
Airport Centres have been opened in major cities, including
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth.
NEW JET-AGE AIRCRAFT. The new 727 T-Jets are
now under construction at the Boeing plant in the U.S.
They incorporate specifications developed by TAA as the
result of its nine years’ experience of jetline operation in
Australia. T-Jets are scheduled to enter service late next
year.
YOUR GUARANTEE OF SERVICE. The continued
operational and financial successes of TAA are a guarantee
that every Australian will continue to enjoy the right to
choose by which airline he will fly, or consign air cargo.
Supporters of competitive enterprise who place business
with TAA help preserve the competition vital to a healthy
airline industry. This competition helps ensure the highest
standards of service for Australian Air Travellers.
TAA is in business for Your business
FL Y THE FRIEND L Y WAY WITH
/y^>
THE NA TION'S JET LINE
TA A 1305/6 :


OVERSEAS
1. Land of Suspicion
Overshadowing Malaysia’s Prospects
From DENNIS BLOODWORTH in Singapore
There were no verbal fireworks
when the Parliament of the
young Federation of Malaysia was
thrown open for the first time for the
inaugural session of the House of Repre-
sentatives. But the participants in this
ceremonial were like churchgoers spying
uneasily between their fingers while
piously kneeling in prayer.
For the comfortable old Malayan
Assembly of 104 members was gone.
There were 55 extra places for the three
additional States that have converted
Malaya into Malaysia—24 for Sarawak,
16 for Sabah (North Borneo), 15 for
Singapore. And among them were 12 men
of the ruling People’s Action Party in this
island whose leader had promised that
they would act as the “loyal opposition.”
There are politicians in the Federal
capital of Kuala Lumpur who are more
afraid of this “loyal opposition” than of
all President Soekarno’s threats to crush
Malaysia. For they see the future of the
Federation balanced between two men
Tunku Abdul Rahman, the Malaysian
Premier, and Mr Lee Kuan Yew, Prime
Minister of Singapore.
The 60-year-old Tunku, seventh son
of a reigning Sultan of Kedah, is the
father of Malaya’s independence, an auto-
crat by birth with a conscientious respect
for Parliamentary democracy. His pat-
ernal yet pragmatic version of constitu-
tional party rule has produced a post-war
State that abjures bogus nationalism and
enjoys the highest living standards in
South-east Asia.
Sometimes indiscreet, unpredictable in
the face of advice, arbitrary of decision,
the Tunku often appears to treat the
seamy side of politics with aristocratic
disgust. But he has the common touch,
the air of a well-set-up, benevolent and
bespectacled uncle who fills his pockets
with sweets for the children and is ready
to throw any Communist suspect into
gaol at the drop of an “h”.
Twenty years younger, Lee Kuan Yew
is a burly Chinese merchant of stock pos-
sessed of considerable political acumen.
An incisive analyst and debater, he is
nevertheless best known as a tireless,
shirt-sleeved juggernaut who would make
10 pugnacious street-corner speeches in
four languages in a single day during his
recent one-man campaign for merger with
Malaya.
Lee believes that to beat the Commu-
nists he must be as tough, as hard-work-
ing and sometimes as ruthless as they. The
Tunku is a gentleman who took nearly
25 years to be called to the Bar. Lee
is a politician who won a double first in
law at Cambridge with a star of distinc-
tion in Part II of the Tripos. Men re-
spect Lee. The Tunku they trust.
two were political opponents even
as Prime Ministers of separate States,
for the Tunku’s Right-wing Malayan Alli-
ance ruled in Kuala Lumpur but was in
opposition to Lee’s progressive PAP Gov-
ernment in Singapore. In the London
negotiations this year which provided for
Singapoie to merge with Malaya, Lee also
exasperated the Tunku by using every
possible ruse to secure for Singapore gilt-
edged terms of association within the
Federation.
The Tunku likes an informal under-
standing as between men of honor. Lee
prefers agreements in black and white.
The Tunku is Federal Premier, but Lee
is the master of this dot beneath the ex-
clamation mark of the Malaysian penin-
sula, the richest and most commercially
powerful State out of the 14 that make up
Malaysia; the Federation’s “New York”
—as he likes to call it—as against the
“Washington” of Kuala Lumpur.
Jealous of this prosperous heritage, Lee
has accused Ministers of the Malayan
Chinese Association, which forms part of
the Tunku’s Alliance coalition, of plan-
ning to use their positions in the Federal
Government to plunder this island. This
has led to a war of words between Lee
and Tan Siew Sin, the - Minister of
Finance, that has left a pall of bitter en-
mity between Singapore and Kuala
Lumpur despite the inauguration of
Malaysia in. mid-September.
Lee has said the PAP will not move
into the Malayan peninsula from Singa-
pore to contest the next general elections,
which are to be held in the original 11
mainland States of the old federation next
spring. He has also firmly promised his
loyalty to the Tunku and to Malaysia.
But he will have a hard time proving his
good intentions.
In Kuala Lumpur the suspicions are
that Lee intends to become “Social-
Democratic” Prime Minister of Malaysia.
They range from the conviction that he
will ally the PAP with the reactionary,
ultra-racial Pan-Malayan Islamic League
in order to win Malay support so that he
can destroy the Tunku's Alliance, to
the belief that he will join the Alliance,
and supplant the Malayan Chinese Asso-
ciation with his own PAP as a first move
towards gaining control of the entire
coalition from the Tunku.
Experienced observers say that the
MCA has no real hold on the Chinese
masses. There is therefore a political
vacuum that Lee and PAP could fill.
Alliance leaders comfort themselves with
the thought that Lee could never domi-
nate the peninsula because he could never
attract a majority of Malays away from
the Tunku. Nevertheless, in recent gen-
eral elections in Singapore the PAP
wrested every Malay constituency in the
island from the Singapore Alliance, des-
pite the Tunku's intervention.


mm
Australia’s exports have
set new records—savings
bank deposits have never
been as high—pay
packets have never been
fatter—and the spending
power of every Australian
is greater—yet our stability
is the envy of the whole
world!
Our present prosperity is
the result of 15 years of
intelligent government.
And with the same intelli-
gent government we can
look forward to even
greater prosperity in the
BIG YEARS AHEAD.
To ensure the continued
prosperity of Australia, and
a fair share of that
prosperity for country
people, return the
Country Party team
to Government
VOTE LU
: xxl:
Authorised by: J. F. Dredge, 7 Phillip Street, Sydne}'


just
/
t
f \
*
Just one man to see
mg land, designing a
obtaining approvals,
about buy-
building,
supervising
construction, finishing on the nominated
day . . . Just one man won’t, of course,
do the whole job by himself. He will
have the backing of the expert professional
and technical staff at Paynter and Dixon—
building consultants and contractors
designing and building for commerce and
industry anywhere in Australia or New
Zealand. The service is comprehensive—
everything from conception through site
selection to completion. The client is
saved the worrisome co-ordination of the
mass of detail that goes into a building
today. The job is done on “just one”
contract.
PAYNTER
& DIXON
KOISKCT
CONSTRUCTION
Paynter and Dixon Pty.
Limited, 161 Clarence
Street, Sydney. 29-7951.
Victoria: 161 Fitzroy Street,
St. Kilda. 94-0781. Queens-
land: 53 Dover Street,
Albion. 63-033.
Although a predominantly Chinese
party in a predominantly Chinese com-
munity of 1,750,000, the PAP is a genu-
inely multi-racial political organisation.
The Tunku’s Alliance is beginning to
feel the draught. Malaysia came into
being because Malaya wanted Sarawak
and Sabah to join the Federation, so that
their Malay and “proto-Malay” native
populations would counterbalance the
1,250,000 Chinese which would come in
with Singapore.
But it is now beginning to dawn on
the peninsula Malays that although in
Malaysia “indigenous people” number
4,700,000 against 4,300,000 Chinese,
they include about 500,000 natives who
might easily be tempted away from their
factitious loyalty to the Malays.
“Sold a pup”
I^Teanwhile, in political terms, the
Sarawak Alliance and Sabah
Alliance hold strong majorities in their
own State legislatures, and their 30
representatives sit on the Government
benches in the Federal Parliament. But
the word “Alliance” is deceptive. They
are, in fact, not coalitions of the same
parties that make up the Tunku’s
Malayan Alliance, which holds only 77
seats.
Given the right issue—such as State
rights against Federal prerogatives—it is
evident that an able opposition party
might succeed in splitting the loose, multi-
State Government majority. “We have
been sold a pup,” a senior member of the
Tunku's party told me frankly last week.
Mr Lee has described his Parliamen-
tary group as “cross-benchers” rather
than opposition. And they therefore sat
on the Government side for the non-
controversial opening session of the
Lower House. Kuala Lumpur's attack
of nerves may prove groundless. But
meanwhile a great chance is being lost
in this miasma of resentment and mutual
suspicion. The Tengku and Lee are as
complementary as they are unlike in
character and attributes. They could
make a great team. They have in com-
mon their belief in Malaysia, their anti-
Communism, their hatred of racialism,
and their enthusiasm for golf. As it is, it
seems, they really only get together over
the golf, (ofns.)


THE
White Burgundy
0 *
m
«A
AND
STILL
THE
FINEST
MADE IN
WESTERN
AUSTRALIA
BY
2. Land out
of Conrad
Timor's Long Sleep
TlThile international attention is focused
on Djakarta’s “confrontation” policy
towards Malaysia, the Indonesians are
developing their threat against Portu-
guese Timor in the manner of those who
never covet neighboring territory but
feel a moral compulsion to “liberate”
the “oppressed people” rebelling against
unjust masters in adjacent States.
President Soekarno has not yet de-
clared that Lisbon's pocket possessions on
the otherwise Indonesian island menace
his republic, but jealous eyes in Java have
been turned upon them since 1950.
Fears of a takeover bid suddenly in-
creased in October last year when Dr
Subandrio, the Indonesian Foreign Minis-
ter, announced that his country had no
claim on this Portuguese “province”.
They were justified. Within one month
Djakarta reported that three civilians
had been killed in frontier incidents be-
tween Indonesian and Portuguese troops,
and that fifteen such clashes had occurred
since the beginning of the year. Six
months later, the Afro-Asian Journalists
Conference, to which Indonesia had acted
as host, adopted a resolution “unre-
servedly” supporting the people of Timor
in their “struggle for the rights of self-
determination and independence”.
In August it was revealed again in
Djakarta that rebels had formed the
“United Republic of Timor Dili” in the
Timorese jungle, with an army staff of
five generals and eighteen field officers
who were directing the fight against the
Portuguese administration, and a Cabi-
net of fifteen Ministers to run things
once the war was on.
The “United Republic” appealed to
“all Malay States” to break off relations
with Portugal, and a largely imaginary
Indonesian organisation called the All-
Malay Race Union which claimed sup-
port from “250 million Malays” called
on President Soekarno, Tunku Abdul
Rahman of Malaysia, and President
Macapagal of the Philippines to discuss
“giving direct aid for the independence
struggle in Portuguese Timor”. It also
appealed for volunteers to “wipe out
Portuguese imperialism and fascism on
Timor” and gave the address of a Dja-
karta newspaper as recruiting centre.
By last month there were conflicting
reports of Portuguese warships and troops
arriving off Dili from Macao, and of
disturbances throughout the territory.
The island hardly appears to be a suit-
able setting for yet another trumped-up
quarrel in these waters. It lies at the
eastern end of the Indonesian archipelago
and some 400 miles north-west of Dar-
win, a land out of Conrad from its coral
reefs and palm-frilled yellow beaches to
its volcanic peaks and lush tropical
valleys. Its high forests are almost Aus-
tralian, thick with eucalyptus and casua-
rina, but the Portuguese first came for
its sandalwood, and today the other main
exports are the equatorial crops—copra,
coffee and rubber.
Timor is about 300 miles long, but
has only about one million inhabitants.
The Portuguese possessions North-
east Timor and the tiny coastal enclave of
Ocussi-Ambeno cover the area of
Wales, but there are hardly any motor
roads and fewer than five thousand people
in the capital. The largest of the Lesser
Sunda group, it is an island of vertiginous
cliffs, of deep and sudden inland can-
yons, of plateaux of coral thrust high out
of the sea.
This seductive topographical savagery
provides the backdrop for a tall, skinny,
somewhat unattractive people of Negroid
and Mongoloid stock, for much tattooed
yet excellent horsemen, and hunters that
live by the bow and the blowpipe.
Predominantly Papuan, the Timorese
erect taboo houses in which to shelter
their unpleasing objects of worship, and
sacrifice pigs to sacred stones. Their
homes are grass-roofed, wooden, and
raised on stilts, and their sarong-clad
women jangle with solid gold and silver
armlets and glass bead necklaces. They
are a people famed for their songs and
dances, their numerous wives and even
more numerous dialects.
They share their paradise with a few
Chinese merchants, civilian officials, and
sleepy Portuguese soldiery who are
nevertheless good mixers. In consequence,
Timor is a tolerant society. Wine is
almost the chief import.
The villages, however, are usually
stockaded, for this has always been a
land of strife. The island was for cen-
turies rent by bloody feuds between in-
digenous Timorese “kingdoms”. The
Portuguese first arrived in 1520, the
Dutch a century later, and wars, frontier
affrays and acrimonious disputes between
the two evolved Christian Powers that
unwillingly shared the island then con-
tinued almost without break until 1914,
almost 250 years later.
The British tried to move in during
the Napoleonic era and were twice re-
pulsed. In World War II Britain sug-
gested to President Salazar of Portugal
that she should temporarily take over
Timor, but the offer was declined. The
Japanese occupation which followed
lasted four years.
Indonesia has inherited the Dutch half
of Timor, and once more, it seems, fin-
gers are itching for the rest of the jewel.
The Portuguese administration is doubt-
less a colonial anachronism, but the
native peoples could be unhappier: for
the most part they are at least still bliss-
fully unaware of their would-be libera-
tors in Djakarta, (ofns.)


AN IDEAL XMAS GIFT
Keep Your Personal Papers SAFE
i
:
THE
HOME
UNITIZER
Price: 45/- N.S.W. (Postage Paid);
48/- Interstate; 50/- (Postage Paid)
W.A. and N.T.
Attractively finished in Vynex, this handy
portable Home Unitizer will keep all your
personal and important documents neatly
and safely—ready for quick reference. It
has twelve compartments and comes com-
plete with printed tags for 72 various titles,
such as Medical, Dental, Rates, Car Ex-
penses, Insurance, Taxation, Banking,
Receipts, etc. Strongly made for long
tpear. The Home Unitizer makes an ideal
gift with real utility value. Size:
151/2 in. x 11 in. x 3 in. IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY.
MECHANICAL INDEX CO.
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Berlin: Why the
Russians Did It
A limit to shedding pretences
From EDWARD CRANKSHAW in London
Mr Khrushchev has announced that
if the Americans had driven on
at the time of the latest hold-up
of a US Army convoy in the Berlin cor-
ridor it would have been over the dead
bodies of Soviet troops, and it could have
led to war. The Americans did not
drive on. Mr Khrushchev said they
were allowed to pass only when they
complied with the proper regulations;
the Americans say they did not yield an
inch. Mr Khrushchev has only his own
past record to blame if we find ourselves
more inclined to believe the word of
Washington rather than the word of
Moscow. Quite evidently, it was he
who manufactured the incident, and it
was he who brought it to an end.
Why? And why does he find it desirable
to indulge in silly talk about war over
the height of the tail-board of an army
truck? Whom is he trying to impress?
It is the reverse of helpful when an
official British spokesman starts invoking,
as Mr Peter Thomas did in the United
Nations last week, a meaningless concept
labelled “the spirit of Moscow”. The
spirit of Moscow, if you please, is sup-
posed to be the mood which engendered
the signing of the test ban treaty. This
treaty was achieved as the result of
hard-headed calculation on the part of
the Russians, no less than the other
signatories. Since Russia’s relations
with the West for as far ahead as one
can see are going to be governed by
equally hard-headed calculations on
other subjects that may crop up and
properly so it would be a sensible
thing to leave the spirit out of it. If
Mr Khruschchev has really decided to
opt out of the moon race, the most
fatuous competition ever conceived in
an age punch-drunk with competition,
this is not due to any spirit, but to a
victory of commonsense over lunacy; if
he decides to trade more and to buy a
lot of wheat it is because he thinks it
advantageous for the Soviet Union to
trade more, and buy a lot of wheat.
Qne of the more attractive aspects of
Mr Khrushchev is that he is com-
paratively uninterested in generalised
prestige, unless he can get it for nothing,
or next to nothing. He felt strong enough
to lose a great deal of prestige over
Cuba. He has lost some more over the
admission that the Soviet Union is short
of grain and, now, in the Berlin corri-
dor. Before that he showed himself
ready to admit that the Soviet Union
could not keep the Chinese in order.
Within the Soviet bloc and, above all,
at home, he has been shedding pretences
all along the line for as long as he has
been active. Provided he can think up
some sort of face-saving device which
will satisfy, or appear to satisfy, the more
unsophisticated masses within his own
realm, he seems perfectly ready to take
the cash and let the credit go.
But there is a limit to all things.
There has to be an element of pretence,
certain conventions require recognition,
and, even more importantly, the West
has to be warned from time to time not
to take Soviet complaisance too much
for granted.
We have to enter into Mr Khrushchev’s
own dilemma. He wants co-existence
with the West, but the very existence of
the Soviet regime is postulated on ever-
lasting conflict with the West. This
situation imposes its own limitations on
any Soviet statesman’s freedom of
manoeuvre. It is unnecessary and un-
profitable to speculate on just how Mr
Khrushchev, in his heart of hearts, sees
the future of global society. He may
or may not believe that one day Com-
munism (Russian or Chinese or
American?) will one day conquer the
world. He has to behave as though this
is what he believes. But most of his
energies are necessarily bound up with
the day-to-day survival of his country
and himself.
Mr Khrushchev has gone a very long
way to letting all the steam out of the
Muscovite Communist movement, on
which his position and authority repose.
He has also gone a long way towards
loosening the tyrannical bonds imposed
by the Soviet Union on the Soviet people
and upon the East European satellites.
At home nearly all his regressive
actions, whether the persecution of the
Jews or punishment of intellectuals,
have been due to fear of relative liberty
getting out of hand and degenerating
into licence; they have been warning
shots. In the international arena his
sudden threatening gestures have been
more or less improvised responses to
other fears above all, the fear of
losing control of the satellites, the world
Communist movement (China apart) and
of being manoeuvred into a wholly de-
fensive position by the West.
It seems fairly safe to assume that
Khrushchev has every intention of
moving slowly but no more slowly,
perhaps, than the Americans, and faster
than the French towards a detente.
But he cannot afford to let it appear
that he is being hurried along this path
by outside pressures, or that he is caught
up in an inevitable historical process
away from Leninism. At a time when,
because of economic difficulties, the
Soviet position may appear to Khrush-
chev weaker than it does to us; at a time,
moreover, when there are many inside
the Communist movement to reproach
him for quarrelling with China, for put-
ting the prosperity of the Soviet Union
above the cause of revolution, for showing
timidity in the face of the threat of nu-
clear war, he may well find it necessary
to make a demonstration of firmness and
intransigence of the kind lately repeated
in the Berlin corridor, (ofns)


Around Melbourne
THE ELECTRONIC SIR ROBERT
ly/lelbourne has not always tri-
umphed as a television town.
Let us admit it freely, there have been
occasions when our national TV
shows have failed to grip the nation,
but we have had a lovely rating for
our two major performances this past
week.
Mr Calwell turned on his national
show at the Royale ballroom, a name
which many felt was over-lush for a
stern, socialistically minded party.
Sir Robert Menzies’ national show
was in good capitalist country —the
studios of GTV-9, Richmond. And
for a policy speech the staging was
particularly interesting. The record-
ing was done on the Friday, before
250 carefully invited guests from the
Kooyong electorate; yet it didn’t go
out to the world until the following
Tuesday.
How on earth was security main-
tained? Was cotton wool put in their
ears and did they clap dutifully only
at the signal of the APPLAUSE
light? - It certainly sounded like that.
No, according to the campaign secre-
tary, they were asked before and after
to keep secret all they heard, and,
as far as he knew, not one of the
250 studio audience broke faith.
Ron Davis, of GTV-9, was the pro-
ducer, and he was pretty happy with
the whole affair. It had been report-
ed earlier that Sir Robert would use
an old church pulpit. One columnist
immediately concluded that the policy
speech would be a sermon and that
the Treasurer, Mr Holt, would take
up the collection. Mr Davis said
it was true, they did have a fine pul-
pit once, taken from a church at
Malvern, but they did not use it.
The make-up story was interesting.
He said the Prime Minister had
always detested make-up, and they
had convinced him that this time he
should wear it. But when the time
came they decided it wasn’t necessary.
“We tried an experiment that
worked out very well. In the past
we have had the speaker on the stage
under all the lights, looking out into a
great pool of blackness. You can
imagine the eye strain. For the PM
we lit the entire studio with the same
amount of light—audience, every-
body, got the same treatment. So for
him it was just like talking in a
normal room, and he found it easier.”
As you know, the applause came
as dutifully as if it were a regular
performance of GTV-9’s “In Mel-
bourne Tonight”. The “Age” even had
a photograph of Sir Robert applaud-
ing himself in front of his TV set
in his suite at the Windsor.
However, Labor had an interesting
idea that night. Bob Hawke, the ex-
Rhodes scholar, the ACTU’s brilliant
research officer and advocate, is stand-
ing against Hubert Opperman for the
hot seat of Corio. Bob Hawke kicked
off his campaign in the Geelong West
Town Hall that same Tuesday night.
Now this was the crafty gimmick. He
put half a dozen TV sets around the
hall and took big ads in the Geelong
“Advertiser” inviting everyone to see
and hear the PM, then hear Gough
Whitlam himself give an immediate
reply.
A pparently it was all quite success-
ful. Indeed, there were occasions
when it seemed like a fine old pre-
electronic meeting. The audience
began to treat the TV sets as if Sir
Robert were really there. There were
jeers and ironic applause, and in that
long first 20 minutes when he was
talking of his Government’s magni-
ficent past, there were shouts of:
“Come on —give us your policy.”
But this was the tragic part. In
the old days the eyebrows would have
quivered. He would have paused
smiled sarcastically, and said: “All in
good time, my friend—your patience
will be richly rewarded.” But the
1963 electronic Sir Robert didn’t
hear, didn’t even blink. He just went
on and on. So Bob Hawke’s idea
was an interesting gimmick, but not
something you could do too often.
By the time he had turned on Mr E. J.
Harrison, MHR, Sir Robert, Gough
Whitlam and himself it was a mighty
long evening.
As for Mr Calwell’s policy in the
Royale ballroom, it was handled by
ABV-2. It was live and a little more
like an election meeting, but an
extremely dutiful meeting of good
trade union members. He looked
superbly bronzed under his pancake
make-up, and the experts who have
been reporting political speeches for
these past 30 years thought he showed
a great improvement in technique.
Yet he didn’t have the timing of
Menzies. He had to meet two suc-
cessive climaxes—when the commer-
cial stations went off at 8.45 p.m. and
ABV-2 15 minutes later. So he had
to toss aside sections of his speech,
and there were occasions when he had
to gallop like a man who had missed
his bus.
However, we were fascinated to
learn later that Mr Calwell’s policy
speech went to a captive audience
entirely missed by the Liberals. At
Her Majesty’s Theatre J. C. William-
son’s were putting on “How to Suc-
ceed in Business Without Really Try-
ing”. Edwin Steffe was playing the
big boss role. The moment came for
him to call his secretary on the office
intercom. “Miss Jones,” he said.
Now, Miss Jones was meant to reply
“Yes, JB,” but, by one of those pieces
of electronic magic which has not
been satisfactorily explained, back
over the intercom came the unmis-
takable voice of Mr Calwell giving
his policy speech, and it went out
to the theatre audience.
It was another little triumph for
Labor.
From all the TV meetings one
correspondent noted a very significant
omen. At Calwell’s show there was
“God Save the Queen” and “Advance
Australia Fair”. At Sir Robert’s show
there was just “God Save the Queen”.
Now, up until 1949, when Labor
went out, “Advance Australia Fair”
always came as the prelude to the
news. Ever since we have had the
more jolly “Majestic Fanfare” by
Charles Williams.
You might say that the return of
“Advance Australia Fair” is the one
little thing that hasn’t been promised
to us by Mr Calwell. But you can
bet your TV set, big screen and all,
that if Labor wins on November 30
you will get “Advance Australia Fair”
with the news in large lumps—every
hour on the hour.
BATMAN


Which is the copy?
I V- .
=---- -----
H
m
fux
7
I
'if-SS
gi£\
1110 >*"
to
&
r
Only the Xerox 914 knows!
Probably the girl who pushes
the Xerox 914 button knows
the original from the Xerox 914
copy, too. But it is difficult to
tell because the Xerox 914
Office Copier is quite unique. It
copies on ordinary bond paper.
No costly, sensitized paper to
49 Market Street. 2 0663 SYDNEY
83 King Street. B 1994 ...... NEWCASTLE
164 Melbourne Street. 4 3836 SOUTH
buy. No messy, wet chemicals.
The Xerox 914 process is dry.
Copies anything—pencil, ball-
point pen, everything. Even
pages in bound volumes. Every
copy perfect—and permanent.
Low-cost copies. Never any
waste with the Xerox 914.
Fast, too. Seven copies a minute
—automatically. And easy! Just
dial the number of copies you
want—and push the button. No
adjustments ever.
RANK
XEROX
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
No capital outlay. You borrow
our Xerox 914 and pay only
for the copies you make. Call
your Rank Xerox office now or
post this coupon and arrange a
demonstration of the unique
Xerox 914 that will revolution-
ise your office copying.
I would like:
□ More details of the Xerox 914 Office
Copier.
□ A demonstration at the nearest Rank
Xerox sales office (tick which applies).
Name
Company
Address
.791/63A8
316 Queen Street. 67 6185. MELBOURNE 163-7 Halifax Street. 8 3125 ... ADELAIDE
1095 Hay Street. 21 4097 PERTH 24 Murray Street. 2 2688 HOBART
BRISBANE Suite 5, Garema Arcade, Garema Place, City, A.C.T. 4 7575 CANBERRA


FORUM
A University
Gone Wrong?
The trouble with St Lucici
FROM A QUEENSLAND CORRESPONDENT
It has recently been revealed that the
University of Queensland receives
proportionately less Commonwealth
support than any other Australian
university. This news caused some local
stir. Queensland Opposition Leader Mr
Duggan suggested that the poor Com-
monwealth treatment might be largely
the result of poor State treatment of its
University, and that “the Queensland
Government may not be spending as
much as the other States”. The reaction
of those connected with University
finance was guarded in the extreme.
Education Minister Pizzey wanted a
week to study the report; Vice-Chan-
cellor Sir Fred Schonell “believed the
report was not based on the present
university grant figures” the reaction
of the St Lucia campus to this example
of diplomatic ignorance was a long, rude
noise!
One question which has been thrown,
uncomfortably, into many discussions of
the University situation is: How do you
tell whether or not a university is any
good? How do we know if all is well at
St Lucia, or if the patient is chronically
disabled or perhaps even in need of
Extreme Unction? (This last is the only
medicament lavishly available . . . but
could it be that the disease is caused by
its over-use?)
A university seems to be made up of
three components: Students, buildings
and equipment, and staff. These com-
ponents are controlled by, and are in a
very real sense the expression of, the
high - level administrative and policy-
making group; this group in turn is con-
trolled by the State Government, and
by the people of the State through the
social pressures known collectively as
“public opinion”. Deficiencies in the
university must generally be traced back
to one of the controlling agencies, and
ultimately to the community. De-
ficiencies may be due either to sheer
inability to provide what is needed, or
to a lack of judgment as to what should
be provided. Is the University of
Queensland deficient in something? If
so, why has the deficiency occurred?
Once these two questions are answered,
it is over to public opinion to insist on
remedies or to lie down and accept
things as they are. The second question
is in some ways too difficult to answer,
in some ways too easy. It is easy, because
the University top administration and
the State Government must collectively
be responsible—but it is difficult if any
attempt is made to single out the
responsibilities of individuals. The first
question is the more fruitful in present
circumstances: are there deficiencies,
and, if so, where?
The students are not deficient in
numbers, nor generally in quality
though their school training may be in
need of improvement. The buildings at
St Lucia are impressive (was money well
spent on the Helidon stone facings?),
and the rest of the physical equipment,
though deplorable cramping occurs in
places, is in over-all view at least
adequate. Some of the facilities are
excellent. There remains the staff: if
serious deiiciencies exist, they must be
found here.
staff of a university must be
A divided into several sections. There
are various useful but ancillary groups,
“administration people”, technical staff,
cleaners, etc. but the essential element
is the academic staff. The academics are
those persons, themselves graduates of a
university, and therefore entitled to wear
academic robes on ceremonial occasions,
who are permanently employed in teach-
ing and/or research in the university.
They are not easy to evaluate. Some
publish many research papers of a
straightforward and ordinary kind;
others publish few, but original and
illuminating, papers. Some teach many
classes, and give good passes in the
examinations; others wake the intelli-
gence of their students, but may be more
severe in exam gradings. All conceivable
types can be found, from the very few
who teach little and publish nothing,
through the great majority who teach
massively and publish moderately, to the
inspired few (there are more of them
than might be expected) who can thrill
and challenge their classes and also
affright the learned world with the
brilliance of their publications.
It will be useful here to make a dis-
tinction which cuts across the grain of
"Don't grumble, they say hard work never hurt anybody."


(Here’s an interesting proposition to keep everyone happy!)
AIRTEMP
5 H.P. “UNIFLEX”
BRINGS YEAR ROUND
AIR CONDITIONING TO THE EXECUTIVE
SUITE AND/OR THE LARGER HOME
%
Ask your Airtemp Distributor to send
you details:
Q’LD.: Dunn Air Conditioning- Ply. Ltd., 620
Stanley St., Woolloongabba. Phone 4 2941.
N.S.W.: Strataflo Pty. Ltd., Cnr. Parramatta
Kd. and Barr St.. Campcrdown. Phone 51 6645.
A.C.T.; A.C.T. Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd.,
14 Yallonrn St., Fyshwick. Phone 9 0081.
VIC.: Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 291
Moray St., S. Melbourne. Phone 69 7114.
S.A.: Chrysler (Australia) Limited, Airtemp
Division, Finsbury. Phone 45 3££l.
W.A.: Noyes Bros. Pty. XLBL. fiSI Mamy St.,
Perth. Phone 23 2214.
SPECIAL LEASING FACILITIES ABE NOW
AVAILABLE. PLEASE PHONE OB WHITE
FOB DET AILS.
s(c This could be your salvation both at work
and at home. For the “Uniflex” is designed
and built to cope with a goodly sized business
premises, and/or it will completely revolutionise
life for you with the family. There is a lot of
sense in ensuring the same air conditioned
comfort in the two places where you spend most
of your life. You’ll have less strain in the one
and greater relaxation in the other. In
fact, this is where you can gain the edge
over your contemporaries. Your Airtemp
Distributor will be pleased to show you how.
AIHTEMP DIVISION
CHRYSLER
AUSTRACI'A LTD
Totally designed &
engineered in Australia
and bristling with
exclusives.
Maw
EXCLUSIVE PERFORMANCE.
Temperatures may rise but Chrysler
“Uniflex” holds its output. Unlike
overseas designed units the “Uniflex”
was designed to operate under
Australia's rigorous conditions.
□
odd..m
INSTALLS. n *
ONE 0R
QH til tfUT
EXCLUSIVE FLEXIBILITY
Final grouping of sections may be
tidily effected. Manhandling during
installation is minimised. Adaptable
t<s either air or water cooling.
Removable panels give easy access.-
EXCLUSIVE VERSATILITY
Only the Chrysler “Uniflex” can
breathe both ways through duct
work, therefore final installation may
be invisible. Exclusive adjustable air
quantities allow unit performance to
be tailored to suit.
EXCLUSIVE QUIETNESS
High efficiency, slow quiet
centrifugal fans give lowest indoor
noise level. Exclusive double insu-
lation prevents mechanical noises
passing outside unit.
EXCLUSIVE BEAUTY
Direct installation is enhanced hy
specially designed grille. It empha-
sises the fact that you own the best
aircondilioning money can buy. Zinc
anneal cabinets are rustproof-
beautiful.
CMOO


A lasting Christmas Gift pencil and
paper are NOT needed for complicated calculations
"CONTROLLER"
. . . the modern, calculating device,
CHOSEN AS THE MOST outstanding pro-
duct of GERMAN industry at the Brussels
World Exposition. "Controller" Calculator
will do all your calculations, whether
simple or complicated, with slide rule
precision, in seconds. It has 3 deep
anodised colour scales with easy-to-read
hairline divisions in diameter
(equivalent to 13 §i n. slide rule)
PRECISION MADE FROM HEAVY-DUTY
ALUMINIUM—LASTS A LIFETIME—SOLD
WITH DETAILED INSTRUCTION BOOK.
Save time save money with complete
accuracy with "Controller" Calculator.
Calculates anything in a few seconds—
including
Australian Registered Design No. 41567.
PERCENTAGES
INTEREST RATES
PRICE FACTORS
TECHNICAL DATA
QUANTITIES
METRIC CONVERSIONS
COMPOUND INTEREST
DISCOUNTS
AREA
VOLUMES
YIELDS
FREIGHT RATES
SALES TAX
PROFIT MARGINS
COMMISSIONS
EXCHANGE RATES
LANDED COSTS
FUEL CONSUMPTION
PRICED AT ONLY £4/19/6 POST FREE
COMPLETE MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE
WITH ADDED USES FOR DECIMAL CURRENCY
ONLY AVAILABLE FROM
CONTAX PTY. LTD., BOX 1162, G.P.0., SYDNEY. 8W2217
Please send us "CONTROLLER" Calculators at £4/19/6, for which we enclose our cheque/
money order for £ / /
NAME ...
ADDRESS
B.D.
the preceding paragraph. We shall
divide the academics into a senior group
—those who by rank or length of tenure
make the decisions —and a junior group
who have little or no decision-making
power, who therefore cannot be re-
sponsible for the faults in the system,
and who can therefore be neglected here.
Note, however, that most academic staff
start in this group, and that some of the
outstanding individuals may for various
reasons, not all of them good, stay in it
for a long time.
Let us look at the senior academic
staff of the University of Queensland, as
depicted in the current “Calendar,” and
let us compare them with the staff of
the “rival” Australian universities. We
shall deal with the ranks of Professor
down to Senior Lecturer—though some
of the latter do not effectively form part
of the “senior” group as defined above
in terms of decision-making.
Firstly, high academic distinction on
a world scale: Queensland is sadly lack-
ing. Not one LRS, for example. At a
lower level, senior Doctorates (D.Sc.,
D.Litt., etc.) awarded by other than the
“home” institution: again a deficiency.
(“Home conferred” degrees are not
necessarily worthless but a university
which can attract outstanding senior
men from elsewhere should be healthier
than one which might merely give senior
degrees to its loyal sons of long stand-
ing.) Going lower still, let us glance at
the paper qualifications, the “letters after
the name”, of all the senior staff.
There is no special and necessary
merit in overseas degrees merely as such
—and many a man has moved through
several Australian universities, gaining
a degree in each and remaining a fool—
but the opposite extreme of “academic
inbreeding” is definitely undesirable. We
are all human, we all tend to form habits:
and a habit of uncritically accepting
local practices as being, if not perfect,
then at least pretty reasonably efficient,
is especially pathological in a place
where mental alertness and critical acuity
are supposed to have their stronghold—
“lf the salt have lost its savour . .
Experience of other places does not
increase a person’s intelligence, but at
least he should know that things can be
done differently—and that some ways
of doing are more efficient than others.
Where have the senior staff of the
University of Queensland obtained their
degrees? The answer too often is: from
the University of Queensland. This is
supported by the figures on place of
origin of appointees. A high proportion
of Queensland’s staff come from other
employment in Queensland; relatively
few come from other Australian or from
overseas universities.
Exactly what is the significance of the
situation here revealed? Everybody
should know (though it is apparent that
many do not) that fine feathers don’t
make fine birds, and that strings of
degrees do not make an intelligent and
good academic. This is true of in-
dividuals. Many of the great creative
thinkers have been, and still are,
singularly ill-qualified in terms of degrees
and honours. But when groups are in
question, it becomes valid to use as
criteria some fixed standards of the sort
used here. The Queensland “senior
academic” group is not small: about 200
individuals. It is suggested that paper
qualifications taken collectively do give
a fair indication of quality. . .
lAoes the attitude of the Commonwealth
Government become more intel-
ligible?
But we have not yet reached the heart
of the problem. What of the other
academics, the nearly two hundred
Lecturers? (To say nothing of the more
junior teaching and research staff.)
The worst feature in the whole situa-
tion is this: a “senior group” of doubtful
quality can stultify the efforts of their
juniors. Personal jealousy can result in
subtle victimisation of junior staff. Con-
structive suggestions from them may be
persistently ignored. A junior person
may have his efforts thwarted every
turn. Eventually he either gives up try-
ing, or moves elsewhere. Either way,
the University loses. We have drawn up,
from information obtained from Queens-
land colleagues, lists of the staff of a
particular department over the past
fifteen years. In one list we ranked the
names of those who at any time during
the 15 years had shown reasonable
evidence of ability. In the other list
were ranked the names of those who
received official encouragement, in the
form of special research grants or study
leave or promotion. The only name
common to the two lists was bottom in
each case! To borrow from archy:
what the hell
sir fred schonell.


ANSETT
TREIGHT
EXPRESS
DELIVERS ANYTHING
ANYWHERE IN AUSTRALIA
• Door-to-door deliveries of single parcels or
bulk loads.
• Daily scheduled services cover Australia.
• Consignments from 1 lb. upwards.
• Full customs, storage and local cartage facilities
available to the smallest or largest shipper.
• “Rocket” service for rush deliveries.
RING FOR SERVICE AND COMPETITIVE RATES
MELBOURNE ... 68 0541
SYDNEY 67 0533
ADELAIDE .... 45 5337
CANBERRA ... 94091
BRISBANE .... 47 1481
PERTH 24 4926
uihim i
TASMANIA —DEVONPORT 2
2659
Development
Ballyhoo
The North Australia bandwagon
FROM A QUEENSLAND CORRESPONDENT
rpHE present agitation for Northern Aus-
tralian development bears the hall-
marks of political manoeuvring around
an artificially created issue, but the pro-
blem which forms its background is an
old one. It has been obvious for many
years that the rate of development in
tropical Australia was not keeping pace
with that in the South, and that only
large government expenditure on public
works would mend the situation created
essentially by a disparity in resources.
With less than 400,000 people settled
north of the Tropic of Capricorn out of
a total population of well over 10 mil-
lion, the cry that the North is “empty” has
almost a literal significance.
But many of the most vociferous
voices at the moment belong to people
who have little conception of the pro-
blems inherent in developing the North,
an area of which well over 90 per cent
is unsuitable for intensive settlement
beyond the present stage of extensive
sheep or cattle pasture, with poor soils
and unreliable rainfall.
In this area there are, it is true, pro-
mising deposits of copper, bauxite, iron
ore, and tin, and the success of Mt Isa
has indicated that mineral development
is possible; but Mt Isa even now has a
population of only 13,000.
A typical type of settlement pattern has
emerged associated with mineral develop-
ment in Northern Australia, a pattern
exemplified by Rum Jungle, Mary
Kathleen, Tennant Creek, Cloncurry, Mt.
Isa widely scattered settlements each
intensively developed in the vicinity of
the mine site, without having much ef-
fect on the surrounding countryside.
Inevitably, then, while there is some
potential for the development of mineral
and manufacturing industries, such
development will be neither dramatically
effective in transforming the face of
the North, nor rapid in its effects.
The People the North Committee have
stated their goal of a population of one
million north of the Tropic of Capricorn
by 1973, that is to say, almost three times
the present population. Even in today’s
terms such a rate of increase seems over-
whelming. Given that the resource back-
ground were sufficient, the provision of
housing, community services and facili-
ties for such an influx would stretch the
available supply of materials to the limit;
but the resource background is, in fact,
so poor that a drop in living standards
would be inevitable.


df/iSd Md/l d/ftrm'dfag..
LDP
FINE OLD BRIAR
PIPES
LONDON MADE
SELECTED AND SEASONED FOR
COOL, SWEET SMOKING
AND LONG SERVICE
JIB-/
£
e
v
AT ALL TOBACCONISTS
& DEPARTMENT STORES
TRADE ENQUIRIES: S. HOFFNUNG & CO. LTD
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using “ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-water systems,
and household requirements. Easy to install. Inexpensive
to operate and will last a lifetime. Large quantities in
use throughout Australasia. Other types for different
conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
Agents and Manufacturers of “Everlasting” Boiler Blow
off Valves, “Curvilinear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines, Ellison Switch Gear, Blasting Mats, Explosives,
Log Splitting Guns, etc.
LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
THE MALAYS
AND MR JOSEY
Sir,
Many of us Malaysians were very
shocked to read some of the things
written in The Bulletin of October 19
and 26 by Mr Alex Josey, a corres-
pondent who is supposed to be know-
ledgeable about the peoples and events
in South-East Asia. Unfortunately his
article on Mr Lee Kuan Yew, the
Prime Minister of Singapore, does not
bear this supposition out. His article
does not only contain a major factual
error, but also some very questionable
assumptions. In order to correct the
wrong impression that might have been
created among the Australian public by
Mr Josey’s article, I believe that it is my
duty to write this letter.
I wish first to refer to his statement
on October 19: “There is no comparable
Malay culture: there is no literature, no
history except of piracy.” This is a very
insulting remark. By this statement Mr
Josey reveals his ignorance, irresponsi-
bility and ingratitude. He is ignorant,
because the Malays have their own
history, which is not solely confined to
piracy. In the 15th century the Malay
kingdom in Malacca was the biggest
trading centre in the East. This is
borne out by the writings of Portuguese
like Tome’ Pires and Duarte Barbosa,
who lived during the period of Malacca’s
greatness. Chinese and Thai historical
writings of the 15th century recorded
the visits of Malay envoys from Malacca
to the royal courts of those two
countries. These embassies had nothing
to do with piracy. They were trade and
goodwill missions. Like the British, the
history of the Malays is not confined
only to the Francis Drakes and the
Hawkins.
Mr Josey is irresponsible because he
does not take the trouble to verify
whether his statements are correct or not.
1 would have thought that if one were to
write for a publication of any standing
at all one should have made sure of one’s
facts. As early as the 15th century the
Malays in Malaya had already written
the Malay classic “Sejarah Melayu” (the
Malay Annals). In the neighboring
Malay states of Acheh and Pasai Malay
literary works had already been in
existence at a much earlier date. Had
it not been for one of his countrymen,
Sir Stamford Raffles, who took away
hundreds of Malay literary works which
perished in the ship called “Fame”, Mr
Josey would have had a greater oppor-
tunity of acquainting himself with
Malay literature.
Mi Josey has lived in this part of the
world for quite a long time to earn his
living. In one way or another he has
enjoyed the hospitality or facilities pro-
vided by the people of my country. Such
an incorrect and damaging statement on
the Malays is certainly not the way to
show one’s gratitude.
Coming to the other aspects of Mr
Josey’s article, he seems to be at pains
to show his opposition to communal
politics. Yet, when he was describing Mr
Lee Kuan Yew’s victory at the recent
elections in Singapore he wrote that Mr
Lee had .. emerged as the leader of
4\ million Chinese in Sabah, Sarawak,
Malaya and Singapore”. This conclusion
certainly contains elements of com-
munalism. Taking it as it stands, the
validity of the statement as such is
questionable. Mr Lee and his party, the
PAP, have not fought in any elections,
either in the former Malaya, Sarawak
or Sabah. Most of the Chinese in
Malaya are either members of the
Malayan Chinese Association, the
Socialist Front or the People’s Pro-
gressive Party (PPP). The first two are


BUD ELEVEN
A new aromatic tobacco .. .
with an unusually distinctive and
pleasant flavour for the
experienced
smoker.
FROM THE HOUSE OF
Edgeworth
i?"
MU®
In flavour-
sealed
polythene
wallet.
6/6
2 ozs.
NOW AVAILABLE
"from your tobacconist
FRESH THE HOUSE OF EDGEWORTH
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.
‘’’•'-•cm] FOR ENGIOH
yfe]GEAR&
AXLE
§pfeusnPTV.LiMa§
lB/6 atwa
your Services Station.
SOLVES 98% OF
GARAGE DOOR PROBLEMS
‘FLOATING ACTION’ garage door fittings
From Hardware stores everywhere T i 6
bitterly opposed to Mr Lee and the
PAP, while the PPP only has a limited
regional appeal. Even then the relations
between the PAP and the PPP have
not been particularly cordial. It does
appear, therefore, that Mr Josey has
made a rather wild assumption.
There are other points raised by Mr
Josey that could be put under a similar
category. But my main intention here
is to correct the misleading, incorrect
and irresponsible statements made by
Mr Josey on the Malays in the hope that
whatever wrong impression that might
have been created by his article can be
put right again.
ZAINAL ABIDIN B.A. WAHID
Department of History,
University of Malaya.
Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia).
NORFOLK ISLAND
Sir,
In your issue of 2/11/63 M. H. Ellis
said that “few people realise that though
Norfolk Island is part of the Common-
wealth, it is the only part of it included
in Australia proper, and inhabited by
electors voting at State and Common-
wealth elections, which issues its own
stamps”.
Norfolk Island is not in fact part of
Australia proper, nor do its inhabitants
vote at State or Commonwealth elec-
tions. Your contributor is probably
confusing Norfolk Island with Lord
Howe Island, which is part of the State
of New South Wales, but which does
not issue its own stamps.
J. H. BLACKLEY
Canberra (ACT).
PRICES FOR ART
Sir,
Whilst I have a high regard both for
Mr Robert Hughes’ ability to express
himself and for his artistic judgment, his
remarks concerning prices in “Art for
Investment's Sake?” (9/11/63) are so
distorted that I cannot allow them to pass.
He states that the auction “grossed nearly
£38,000,” which is true, but his “reputed
cost of £21,000” is nearly as inaccurate
as that of £lOO,OOO in a newspaper article
some weeks ago.
Mr Hughes chooses as one example of
prices the most expensive oil by Bernard
Buffet, which fetched 3500 guineas. He
gives the asking price in Paris as 1300
guineas and, on that basis, admits that
“no gallery in this country could land
‘Nature Morte aux Fruits' here and make
its own cut on the sale at a price less
than 2000 guineas.” In fact, the price in
the Paris gallery is about 2100 guineas,
which brings a reasonable sale price here
on the proportion of Mr Hughes’ admitted
minimum mark-up to about 3200
guineas. Buffet’s sole agents are at
present selling his work very well and
have not found it necessary to lower his
prices, so they are hardly “plummeting.”
In another paragraph, he states: “500
guineas was paid for a mock-Utrillo
street scene of Paris by an obscure pain-
ter named Elisee Maclet the sort of
painting one gets for £5O in the Flea
Market.” A Frenchwoman, here for a
short visit, who is familiar with Maclet's
work and accustomed to Paris prices,
bought the painting and remarked to me
how pleased she was to get it for less
than it would cost in Paris.
Perhaps the outstanding error in the
article lies in Mr Hughes’ assumption
that “you can buy a Chagall lithograph
like the three in the Clune's auction,
through the Galerie Maeght in Paris, for
about 45 guineas sterling . . . Braques
are a little more expensive.” The retail
price for these in Paris was about £2BO
unframed; in fact, they were not the
most expensive, although of exceptional
quality. The Braque, on the other hand,
cost less —not more.
In Paris I was offered a Picasso litho-
graph from the famous Vollard suite for
£1250 by one of the best-known dealers,
an indication that the £375 to £5OO paid
for the Chagall lithographs at the auc-
tion were hardly “the highest prices ever
paid for lithographs in the 20th cen-
tury.”
The gross misstatements contained in
the article are not so surprising when
one realises that Mr Hughes has not been
personally in touch with the international
art market since his visit to Europe in
1959 and must depend on scattered refer-
ences to prices in such European maga-
zines as he sees, and on current Sydney
rumors.
FRANK MCDONALD
Director, Terry Clune Galleries.
Sydney {NSW).


"
f 7
m
N
Ov
Mr. Hiller and his craft
The Importance of a Name. It’s important to realise that there
is such a person as Mr. Ernest Hiller the label that goes on to
his suits is not a “brand name” but his own personal signature.
It’s a guarantee that the suit has been tailored to Mr. Hiller’s
demanding standards (hand detailed where only hand work
will do); that the materials are of a superb quality.
The international styling of an Ernest Hiller suit is
undisputed as is the value-for-money that goes with
every suit that carries his name. From £25.19.6.
woo
INTERNATIONALLY STYLED SUITS, SPORTCOATS AND TROUSERS
AT BETTER STORES IN THE CITY, SUBURBS AND COUNTRY
3099
SYDNEY COVE
Sir,
I am quite aware Mr Malcolm
Ellis’s error about the date of
Phillip’s landing (21/9/63) was due
to a misprint or an accidental slip:
an occupational hazard of authorship
for which he does not make allow-
ance in his criticism of others’ work. I
am also aware of nautical time. Mr
Ellis’s comments which prompted my first
letter did not deal only with Phillip’s
landing, but especially with the raising
of the colors. This occurred in the even-
ing (i.e., after midday) of January 26.
By both nautical and ordinary time this
was January 26, as Mr Ellis very well
knows. In raising the nautical-time point
he resorts to specious argument.
MARGRIET ROE
Hobart (Tas).
FINANCE
Sir,
Having this week become a subscriber
to The Bulletin, I note with extreme
pleasure your enlarged 32 finance pages.
I feel your circulation will be swelled
very considerably, from dissatisfied
“Financial Review” readers. My con-
gratulations.
H. A. TURLE
Willow Tree (NSW).
RSL AND THE COMMUNISTS
Sir,
Members of the Sydney Branch of
International PEN, writing (2/11/63)
on censorship of books and recent events
in radio and TV, complain of alleged
indirect political or quasi - political
pressure. They instanced, quite wrongly,
the recent ABC “Four Corners” pro-
gramme on the RSL. This particular
feature was so biased, unfair and
unbalanced that all the protests and
criticisms levelled at it were fully justi-
fied. No doubt it raised three hearty
Moscow cheers from the Communist
Party, which for a long time has had
its knife into the RSL both for its
educational campaign exposing the
party’s aims and activities, and its re-
peated advocacy of strengthening our
defences.
A week or so previously “Four
Corners” featured the Peace Movement,
which it whitewashed, and allowed one
of the speakers to say in effect that
Russia was the only country interested
in peace and wanting to ban the atom
bomb. The Bulletin itself (14/9/63)
severely criticised this programme for
plugging the Soviet party line.
The ABC as part of its policy of free-
dom of speech has a duty to permit all
viewpoints to be given, but it also has
the corresponding obligation of being
balanced and objective.
F. E. McELHONE
Sydney (NSW).
Sir,
From time to time we are treated to
the spectacle of literary knights-errant
sallying forth to do battle with the
dragon of censorship. Occasionally
their cause is justified, but the outburst
against the ABC by the Sydney branch
of International PEN (2/11/63) misses
the mark completely.
The letter takes the ABC to task for
stifling free expression on controversial
subjects, but entirely forgets that the
particular edition of “Four Corners”,
on the subject of the RSL and Com-
munism, was guilty of just that very
offence. The essential part of any open
discussion of a problem is that both
sides be given an equal opportunity to
put their case, and it is an indisputable
fact that this equality was absent on this
occasion, and its very absence was the
cause of the justifiable indignation by
the RSL.
The Commission can be justly proud
of their record, and for the sake of
Australian television it would be a great
pity if the public image of this pro-
gramme were sullied by an isolated act
of indiscretion.
W. G. JOYNER
Banyo ( Q’ld ).
PROGRESSIVE TAXATION
Sir,
It is ironically amusing to watch econ-
omists at play with such theoretical boun-
cing balls as “vertical and horizontal
equities” of taxation (Jonathan Pincus’s
letter, 2/11/63).
The failure of “attempts to devise a
scientific basis for progressive and pro-
portional taxation” stems from the simple
fact that taxation is itself a clumsy, un-
scientific method of income distribution.
If Roger Randerson, for instance,
would read Henry George instead of
Hayek he might get a glimpse of econ-
omic truth instead of half-truth, and dis-
cover why we have taxation at all a
method by which we pay a monstrous
price for the private expropriation of the
natural public revenue, the rent of land.
E. P. MIDDLETON
Cremorne (NSW).
CORSETRY
Sir,
Having read the article on corsetry in
The Bulletin (20/10/63), I felt I had
to write you a short note to say that I
not only thought that it was very well
written, but that it was of considerable
benefit to the corsetry industry in
general.
MICHAEL A. HERSHON
Sydney {NSW).


REVIEWS
ART
Into The Canyon
Is there an indigenous Australian art?
By JOHN HENSHAW
Australian Painting Today. Art Gallery
of NSW.
175th Anniversary of the Founding
of Australia. Commemorative Ex-
hibition. Art Gallery of NSW.
Qomeone said once that publishing a
book of verse was like dropping a
rose petal in the Grand Canyon and
waiting for the echo. A somewhat similar
situation faces the travelling show
“Australian Painting Today” which will
meet great competition in Europe. Can
we, for instance, provide fare equal to
that of the recent show of 2000 years
of Mexican art? At once the always
incoherent national element becomes
meaningless. Here a few score of artists
working in Australia show paintings
influenced by every cultural wind from
far and near. Will discerning Europeans
be able to extract some distillate, a
precious broth uniquely and un-
equivocally indigenous to this country?
Behind Hodgekinson and Lynn they
will see the Spaniards, behind Whiteley,
Cremonini, and so on.
Laurie Thomas has selected with an
eye to packing some big punches. No
one can envy the difficulties involved,
especially in persuading collectors to
part with paintings for two years. The
figurative paintings tend to be weak,
unrepresentative and in some cases
downright embarrassing. Queensland
artists fare better than Victorians. Why,
for instance, is Roger Kemp ignored
or lan Sime? The most mature vision in
Australian painting, that of Godfrey
Miller, does not grace this show. On this
account alone the exhibition is no real
survey at all, but should have been
entitled “Some Contemporary Australian
Painting”. Dobell’s token exhibit will
no doubt make Europeans wonder at his
reputation here, whereas the one or two
weak Nolans will not. However, Plate,
with what is probably his most engaging
large-scale effort, Rapotec, Upward,
Lancely, Hodgekinson, Reddington, Fair-.
weather and French seem as well chosen
as Sibley’s, Hughes’, Laycock’s or Daws’
appear pointless. Two paintings by John
Passmore reveal a struggle between an
assertive calligraphy and a spatial con-
cept deeply concerned with past ex-
perience, which neither can resolve.
Transitional paintings like these, not
shown before, give no idea of Pass-
more’s compass. Olsen’s panel is un-
even but it is interesting to see just how
near his work is in spirit to Lancely or
pop artist Brown in adjoining rooms.
Apart from Fairweather, neither Rose
nor anyone else provides a con-
templative foil for the great mass of
impact painting now uppermost in Aus-
tralian expression. Some embrace
Cinema Scope formats inversely pro-
portional to content. Angry, brash,
intensely muscular, sometimes dis-
turbed handling evokes the impulsive,
physical aspects of sensation. At the
same time symbols are groped for with-
out the corresponding depths of feeling.
Between these two extremes most talents
oscillate.
JjV>R such an important event as the
175th anniversary of our founding,
the NSW Gallery shows a fairly small but
comprehensive collection devoted to
paintings of Sydney Harbor.
Mid-Victorians like Frith influenced
Montagu Scott’s “Picnic on Clark Island,
1870”, to a neat delineation of anecdotal
detail as laced with genre sentiment as
the picnic seems with grog. In R. Atkin-
son’s able watercolor entitled “The
Bluff, Middle Harbor, 1889”, a blue-
print exists for thousands of plein air
renderings to our own day. The difficulty
lies in recognising the new or com-
paratively new vision through the
watered-down one.
In “Departure of the S.S. Orient,
Circular Quay”, Conder evokes with
amazing precosity a sense of atmospheric
poetry equalled only by the warm
Elysian tranquillity of Roberts’ “Moss-
man’s Bay, 1894”. From this youthful
blandness of the Sirius Cove days
Streeton emerged a prosaic, if com-
petent, recorder addicted to a repertoire
of manners.
With Wakelin and De Maistre the
structure of post-impressionism was
born, prematurely, but turning the eye
towards more subtle ways of selectivity.
John D. Moore’s breezy view of the
bridge and the north side reflects little
of this revolution, but the approach has
none of the lyrical romanticism of the
’eighties. With the pre-eminence of the
Society of Artists in the late ’thirties to
the fifties, a gentle fantasy transforms
a more thoroughly urban and in some
respects ruined harborscape. Through
Elaine Haxton to Lloyd Rees the way is
paved to the fusion of outward appear-
ance and inward intensity evident in
the two John Passmores, finally be-
coming a fully autobiographical state-
ment, autonomous, allusive and sub-
jective in the John Olsen of 1961. The
Gleghorn of 1957 assumes, with Olsen’s
seaport (1956), an intermediate, roughly
analytic phase. The artist himself now
stands firmly in the centre, blocking the
view, declaring his participation.
Poise
Maximilian Feurring. Leveson Street
Gallery. Melbourne.
David Kwiatkowski. Ben Uri Gal-
leries. Melbourne.
Tt is not easy to get a grip on the ideas
in Maximilian Feurring’s painting.
He seems ready to try any subject and
to swap styles rapidly. There is, of
course, nothing wrong with that, and
since he handles most subjects and tech-
niques very well his exhibition is an
enjoyable one. Nonetheless he does
often limit himself to solving purely pro-
fessional problems. Thus, although he
creates paintings of considerable poise,
like the still life which won this year’s
Transfield, he does not on the whole
communicate anything very personal.
Most of the paintings in the exhibition are
from this year, and concentrate on isola-
ting subtle color patterns in large flat-
black areas. Along with these are several
in the art brut tradition, whilst from
earlier years the painting is largely ex-
pressionist. Quite dearly he aims to
produce images whose impact is strong
and immediate, and he tackles every-
thing exuberantly. But in seeking the
dramatic, he does, I think, sacrifice in-
dividuality in his images.
Very few can manage a one-man ex-
hibition at the age of 21, but, by combin-
ing ink and pencil sketches with his oils,
David Kwiatkowski has contrived a
simple but agreeable show at the Ben
Uri Galleries. Technically it is compet-
ent but undistinguished work, which
might pass quite unnoticed were it not
for Kwiatkowski’s down-to-earth sym-
pathy with common street scenes and
people. It is impossible to predict any
development, but the warmth of this un-
affected painting is admirable.
BILL HANNAN


WHATEVER
THE GOODS
DELIVER
THEM!
Mayne Nickless can deliver
anything in the world within
Australia, or forward ‘Aus-
tralian Made’ anywhere in
the world.
As Australia’s completely
co-ordinated transport sys-
tem, Mayne Nickless offer an
entirely ; comprehensive ser-
vice. With one phone call to
MN you can send anything,
anywhere land, sea or air.
With 3000 trained personnel
and 1500 vehicles at your
service you. can absolutely
rely on MN for every trans-
port need.
• GENERAL CARTAGE
• PARCEL DELIVERY
• HEAVY EQUIPMENT HAULAGE
• BULK LIQUID TRANSPORT
• COMPLETE EXPORT/IMPORT CUSTOMS
AND SHIPPING SERVICE
.• SPEEDEX MAYNTAINER RAIL DELIVERY
• BOND AND FREE STORES THROUGH-
OUT AUSTRALIA
• INTRA AND INTERSTATE HAULAGE
• FASHION EXPRESS/GARMENT DELIVERY
• TAXI TRUCKS
• ARMOURED CAR SERVICE
• AIRCARGO DESPATCH
AND DELIVERY
MAYNE
NICKLESS
LIMITED
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
650/1/63
FILMS
Enigma
Lawrence of Arabia. Director, David
Lean. Barclay Theatre. Sydney,
rp. E. Lawrence is a fascinating enigma
-*• —a mixture of braggadocio and self-
doubt, of exhibitionism and humility, who
adopted an arrogantly messianic attitude
towards the Arabs and then chose to live
out the rest of his life in deliberate ob-
scurity; it needed his senseless death by
accident to remind most of his contem-
poraries that he had still been alive.
It’s easy to see why this man appealed
to David Lean as a subject. Lean has
always shown a passionate concern with
the solitary individualists who stand aside
from the normal stream of humanity—
Madeleine Smith, for instance, or the
Colonel in The Bridge on the River Kwai.
But with all Lean’s skill and intelligence
as a director, he’s not quite up to this
film. “Lawrence of Arabia” is techni-
cally very fine, often dazzling, but at the
end we know as little of the mysterious
Lawrence as before.
The fault largely lies with the fatal in-
adequacy of Peter O’Toole in the central
role. This personable young actor never
for an instant suggests the man w'ho tem-
porarily unified the warring Arab tribes
in a common cause and commanded the
personal veneration of his followers.
Sleek and well-barbered, enunciating his
lines with the self-conscious mincing ele-
gance of one playing in an Edwardian
drawing-room comedy, he is entirely un-
convincing as a leader of men. It is not
possible to believe that this is a man who
actually chose the terrifying harshness of
life in the desert. One must dismiss the
unkind suspicion that it had something
to do with the flowing robes and that
madly becoming headgear.
The unsatisfactory central performance
is a basic weakness, but “Lawrence of
Arabia” is still emphatically a film to
see. Robert Bolt’s script is literate and
perceptive (though its factual accuracy
on some points has been question-
ed). The film remarkably manages to en-
gage the attention almost constantly dur-
ing its nearly four hours’ length.
The first part is mainly concerned with
establishing the character of Lawrence
(which it fails to do); in the more interest-
ing second half we see Lawrence’s great
romantic, impractical dream being trans-
formed by the devious political man-
oeuvres of his military and diplomatic
superiors who, while regarding him with
combined admiration and exasperation,
use him unscrupulously for their own
purposes.
David Lean’s direction does leap into
savage life in the battle sequences: visu-
ally, this is a film of startling effective-
ness. A cast including Jack Hawkins,
Alec Guinness, Anthony Quinn and
Claude Rains is almost uniformly first-
class; near-caricatures like the silly-ass
British officers; or the obtuse Lawrence-
worshipper played by Howard Marion
Crawford are the fault of script and
direction.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
Anarchy
The Joy of Living. Director, Rene
Clement. Gala. Sydney.
T>ene Clement’s “The Joy of Living”
(“Che Gioia Vivere”) is a most en-
gaging piece of nonsense. The director s
sure and sensitive craftsmanship has
shown an astonishing versatility in the
past—from the hard documentary style
of “Bataille de Rail” to the gentle pathos
of “Jeux Interdits,” from the sombre
melodrama of “Gervaise” to the acid
whimsy of “Knave of Hearts.” Here he
turns to a combination of farce and fan-
tasy which stretches that versatility to the
limit. It is far above the routine level,
but, by the standards we expect of
Clement, it shows a certain amount of
strain and flagging invention here and
there.
The film is set in Italy in the early
19205, when the struggles among Fascists,
anarchists and royalists may well have
seemed more funny than dangerous. The
hero is a penniless young innocent who
falls in with a family of preposterous
anarchists, pretends to be a fire-eating in-
ternational terrorist in order to impress
the earnest 18-year-old daughter of the
family and finds himself obliged to live
up to his self-given reputation.
The plot is prolix and fast moving,
compounded of lighthearted satire on
political fanaticism, comedy of character
and plain slapstick. It is often very funny
indeed, but one does not have the feeling,
as one does in the best farce (Clair’s or
Tati's, for example), that the situations
flow spontaneously and easily out of one
another. One is a little too conscious of
the screenwriters (there is a team of them
listed in the credits) cudgelling their
brains for the next idea. And Clement, I
think, would have been happier if the
pace had been less hectic and the em-
phasis more towards light and stylish
satire.
The film has a charming and aptly
cast a pair of principals in Alain Delon
and Barbara Lass; the remainder of the
cast pair of principals in Alain Delon
Italian.
MARTIN LONG


It takes ten thousand roses, gathered by moonlight in
the rose-fields of Bulgaria, together with Jasmine from
precious plants first imported from Turkey by the Duke
of Tuscany, to make one flask of tke essence of
“L’Aimant * *-* tke rare and exquisite perfume imported
from France by Coty. No wonder beautiful women all
over tke world treasure it and make it tkeir signature.
mi
&
n.
a
&
ft
%
V
/
I
o
/
/
n
s
H!
&
/.
-A
r I
V*
A
I, *1
4/1
r '7.
I, I;
f
\ \ ,
X
rV
cor
» y*\
•;v^\
ir'jty
V
0
0
COTV
THEATRE
In Hell
Vicious Circle. J. P. Sartre. Theatre
Enterprises. Russell Street Theatre.
Melbourne.
Who’ll Save The Plowboy? Frank D.
Gilroy. Arts Theatre. Melbourne.
“T7'icious Circle” is set in Hell. Inez
* is a Lesbian who took a woman
away from her husband and drove her
to despair and death. Estelle is a vain,
selfish man-eater who drove a man who
loved her to suicide. Garcin is a coward
who tormented the wife who loved him.
In Hell, Estelle is to torture Inez by
ignoring her, Garcin is to torture Estelle
by his self-absorption and Inez is to tor-
ture Garcin by understanding him.
Marcella Burgoyne as the beautiful,
but empty, Estelle, and Pearl Copolov as
the bitter, passionate Inez, formed an ex-
cellent contrast. A careful production was
admirably served by Neville’s Budd’s
claustrophobic Second Empire drawing-
room.
“Who’ll Save The Plowboy?” is the
first production of the Arts Theatre in its
new city premises in Lonsdale Street.
The curtain rises on Albert Cobb, meter-
reader, and his wife Helen, in their
dreary New York apartment. They are
waiting for Albert’s wartime buddy, Larry
Doyle, who saved Albert’s life. Albert
has not seen Larry for fifteen years.
In that time Albert’s life has gone sour.
He drinks too much and his wife hates
him. In the Army he dreamed of be-
coming a farmer. He bought himself a
farm but when he woke up on the first
day and looked at his acres, he realised
that he knew nothing about farming.
Ten years ago Helen had a child which
was monstrously deformed. On top of
this the hospital made a mistake and
told Albert he had a son. Before he
discovered the truth he telegraphed Larry
that he was naming the child after him.
Since then the parents have lied to the
world about the child, while inside the
walls of their flat their marriage has
become a hell.
Larry arrives with a present for “Young
Larry”, and Helen and Albert tell elabor-
ate lies. While they try to pretend they
are ideally happy, Larry also lies to
convince them that he is ideally happy.
The truth is that the wound he receiv-
ed when he saved Albert from death is
now killing him. He has come to assure
himself that Albert is happy and to meet
the child, so that he may know he is
not dying in vain.
David Connor is convincingly slob-
like and vulgar as Albert and is excellently
counterpoised by the taut, bitter Helen
of Roma Joy Williams. Marcel Cugola’s
Larry is a somewhat shadowy figure.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG


VISITING U.S.A.? WHY NOT TAKE THE INTERESTING WAY HOME?
You gain so much —for so little extra
air fare—when you travel home from
U.S.A. via Europe with reliable KLM
The difference can be as little as twelve guineas (Economy Class)
your gain in experience and pleasure will be enormous
KLM offers you a choice of 32 trans-Atlantic jet flights every
week from America to Europe—and you can make connections
with them easily from any part of the American Continent. If
you are visiting America, for business or pleasure, why not take
the opportunity to see some of the fabulous sights of Europe on
the way back? KLM’s gateway to Europe is Amsterdam Airport,
famous for its Tax-Free Shopping Centre. From here, it is no
more than a short hop to Paris, London, Rome, Vienna, Copen-
hagen, Madrid—or most of the fabled cities of historic Europe.
KLM’s Multi-Stopover Plan lets you break your journey at many
cities at no extra air fare. Here are more facts about the exciting
opportunities reliable KLM can offer you.
1. The Tax-Free Shopping
Centre at Amsterdam Airport is
the largest on the European Con-
tinent. Here you can buy German
cameras, Dutch cigars, Swiss
watches, French perfumes, and
the world’s finest wines and
spirits, all at bargain prices.
2. Diamonds are cheaper in
Amsterdam. Amsterdam artisans
have cut and polished diamonds
for centuries. Their work is
famous. Other bargains to look
for are: Dutch fabrics, pewter,
silver, copper, brass. And, of
course, Dutch liqueurs, cheese
and chocolate.
3. Amsterdam’s central location
makes it the natural hub for your
European tour. It offers excel-
lent opportunities for travel by
boat, road, rail or air to all of
Europe. You can arrange for an
Avis Rent-a-car to be ready for
you on arrival at Amsterdam
Airport, where the hiring rates
are the lowest in Europe. Drive
wherever you wish and leave the
car at the point where you rejoin
your KLM flight. On the other
hand, your Travel Agent can
arrange for KLM to meet you
with a car at any of the airports
it serves in Europe.
4. If you can spare only a few
hours in Amsterdam, take a
Holland Minitour . . . delightfully
fills 200 short minutes, taking in
an Amsterdam canal boat tour,
visits to the Rijksmuseum, a
diamond cutting factory, and
Aalsmeer's flower auction. The
price is a bargain, £2.
KLM helps the traveller
5. KLM has 77 offices in
Europe, 196 throughout the
world. English is the official
language in all of them. Wher-
ever you go in Europe, a KLM
office is close by with assistance
in language problems. It’s part
of KLM’s tradition of fine per-
sonal service to help people—
whether they are KLM pas-
sengers or not.
6. In the United States, KLM
has 31 offices in 28 cities. All
offer helping hands to foreigners
in the U.S.A. KLM’s big New
York office, at 609 Fifth Avenue,
is a goldmine of helpful infor-
mation for visitors to New York.
There you will find a large staff
of friendly KLMers who devote
their careers to helping travellers.
KLM—famous for service,
hospitality and reliability
7. KLM has had longer than
any other airline to perfect its
service and its reliability—44
years. KLM has carried over
twelve million passengers a total
of fourteen and a half billion
passenger miles.
8. KLM carries an average of
3,830 passengers every day —
about twice the capacity of a big
ocean liner.
9. Travelling First Class on a
KLM DC-8 jet, you sit in
glorious comfort. Your seat is
as wide as an armchair, has
built-in table lamp, pre-focussed
reading lamp, air blower and
finger-tip control panel.
10. KLM Economy Class pas-
sengers enjoy exactly the same
friendly personal service as First
Class passengers. The food
comes from the same chefs and
the same kitchens. Wines and
other drinks are available at
nominal charges. A quarter bottle
of top quality champagne, for
example, costs an Economy Class
passenger on the North Atlantic
run just 70 U.S. cents.
11. KLM stewardesses are
taught to anticipate your wishes.
They are always charming, even
when they walk eight miles on
a trans-Atlantic flight. KLM has
trained stewardesses for five
other airlines.
Ask your Travel Agent.
12. Ask your Travel Agent
to plan your tour. He is', a
specialist. He knows fares, rates,
hotels, tours, documents, curren-
cies better than anyone. His
experience in the little odd details
can make a world of difference
to your trip. Two of every three
KLM passengers are recom-
mended to fly KLM by ex-
perienced travel agents—a nice
vote of confidence from people
who know all about travel.
13. When you make your flight
reservations for KLM you get
much more than your ticket ... ,
you get one hundred per cent,
reliability.
See your Travel Agent, call KLM or mail coupon for free
travel information.
KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIRLINES
A.W.A. Building, 47 York Street, Sydney. 29-3966
80 Collins Street, Melbourne. 63-6949
Please send wore detailed information on the advantages
of returning from U.S.A. via Europe and the Middle East
with KLM.
Mr./Mrs./Miss
Address
My Travel Agent
r <?fe>
KIM
k”V
<J259


POETRY
Letter to a Friend in Israel
You write the khamsin blows from Sinai,
Fierce as a storm at sea. The land is brown;
You long to leave the desert for a day
To see again the hills of Galilee,
Green fields and settled country.
Yes, I recall the Negev after drought,
The loneliness, shirt sticking to your shoulder,
The water tower glaring at the sky,
The Arab sand that drifts under the door
Like the eighth plague of Egypt.
Dick’s gone from the kibbutz, and April too,
But you could no more think of living where
The taxis honk than Father Abraham
Could think of leaving Sarah, though at times
You dream of Haifa and Jerusalem
As David dreamt of naked Bathsheba.
Remember me to pioneerhood, Sam,
And to the tea-urn in the dining hall
Around which watchmen gather in the night
When guard is changed, if guard is changing yet,
To the red cactus blossom that the camels eat,
To children singing in the children’s house;
Or if by chance you’re travelling north, please give
My greetings to the little fish that swim
In the cool water of Beth Alpha’s pool—
Beth Alpha where I had a girl.
What news
Of Melbourne, Sam? Well, Essendon’s on top,
Carlton lies second, and a lad's been gaoled
Who broke a bottle on the umpire’s head.
The wattle’s coming out at Fern Tree Gully,
The pubs are coming down in Swanston Street,
And on a fine day, from the Trades Hall roof,
The class struggle can still be clearly seen
Beyond the University where, lately,
The dogs of Patrick White made love off stage.
My fond regards to Mara and yourself:
I’d bridge this chasm if I could, but since
My heart is drying on a laundry hoist
Far from that other Israel of my youth,
You’ll understand the problem that we have,
You there, I here . . . and over us together
The neutral sun, the smiling apostate.
DAVID MARTIN
In the Town
Outside the post office, in the dying shade,
three aboriginal women sit on the steps
waiting with children for husbands or money, silently.
There are expensive dresses in the shop windows
but they do not lift their eyes; a new car
still without mark or tarnish halts before them,
but they look away. One of their children cries
in a practised voice for an ice-cream or a chocolate;
and they all get up, the taste already in their eyes.
The old woman moves stiffly in this lunchtime crowd,
there is nothing for her to see; the mothers walk
gauntly
though dressed in the fashion of any country town,
but the children, gay with their sweet, run out ahead
and jeer at their elders, slow as if trudging a load.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT
Any Shorter and I'd Have
Missed it Altogether
Couldn’t have walked down the street I lived in
more than twice, yarned at the corner store,
strolling home with an armful of weekend groceries
■—well, four or five times, certainly not more.
Can hardly say I got to know anyone really well
in all that one long noisy street
cluttered with kids and odds and ends of sunlight
and women on narrow verandahs with bare feet.
Come to think of it, barely had begun
to know the house I lived in or the birds
who kept a boisterous menage in the roof
before a sudden seizure forced the words
Clean out of my mouth.
Coming to, I found
everything over, almost as if it had never
happened at all, a mouth full of spit, a full quota
likewise of years, and no further urge to be clever.
BRUCE DAWE
Simpatico
You wish to live my life a little while
Instead of having me disguise your own
As something legendary and darkly known,
Verging upon the beautiful and vile.
You want to walk an arbitrary mile
On knives, to bear stigmata lately shown
Before the bird of sympathy has flown,
Before the sweets returning taste of bile.
I know your lack appears to you as need:
The curiosity that lives nine lives
And kills no thing but time. Yet it is greed,
This “hunger for experience” that rives
My selfhood's being by your own. You bleed
Me white. It is my ghost walks on your knives.
BRUCE BEAVER
W ild Lemons
Suddenly the lemon trees
Sprung from nowhere and the sun
Blazed in their branches, round their leaves
Encompassing a thousand suns.
Shadow falls as death. The breeze
Blows dappled shadow round our knees;
Timeless suns sing of our love,
Of human joy and ecstasies.
In yellow fruit, the hanging tears,
Store all our loving up: the years
Of pregnant branches, guarded fruit,
The suns in season with the quiet
Flush of day and starlit night,
Till in this pyre of trees the body
Burns the sweeter spirit’s light.
DAVID WOOD


RED PAGE
Pride of the Peacock
How an orang-outang reached the House of Commons
By GEOFFREY SCOTT
Headlong Hall, Melincourt, Nightmare
Abbey. T. L. Peacock. Hart-Davis.
245.
Maid Marian, The Misfortunes of El-
phin, Crotchet Castle, Gryll Grange.
T. L. Peacock. Hart-Davis. 245.
TJeacock’s novels, like pickled walnuts,
■*- will perhaps never be to everybody’s
taste. Fifty years ago Clive Bell declared
that only a small, fastidious world of
readers could be expected to appreciate
their exquisite though peculiar flavor. A
more recent biographer has made the
same point, claiming that, while there
has always been a sort of Peacock cult,
the general reader (that creature again)
has never shown much interest in him.
This is quite true. One reason is that
authors of popular histories of literature
have never been sure how to deal with
such an odd fish as Thomas Love Pea-
cock. A serious, albeit highly idiosyn-
cratic, artist like Sterne? A minor ec-
centric like Beckford? Whatever the
choice, it is impossible to pin Peacock
down in a neat anthological phrase. He
slips away, leaving ghostly echoes of
sardonic laughter to mock the frustrated
critic.
Peacock’s quirks and quiddities, his
bundle of inconsistent prejudices, his ur-
banely elegant style and his irrepressible
parade of recondite learning have, of
course, always appealed to the closet-
critic. Book-bound scholiasts like Saints-
bury and Richard Garnett delighted in
him. They sipped him like a rare old
wine, chuckling privily, and wrote es-
says on him. But they did little to suggest
that he deserved a much wider reading
public than the happy few. The most
penetrating study of Peacock was written
by that most unpedantic of critics, J. B.
Priestley, for the English Men of Letters
series more than 30 years ago. Readers
who come to Peacock for the first time
by way of this handsome pair of new
Hart-Davis paperbacks should beg or
borrow Priestley before they take the
plunge. They will be well rewarded.
The reputations of most bygone novel-
ists have had their ups and downs. Pea-
cock’s has remained on a dead level of
relative neglect. He was never a best-
seller during his lifetime. He deliberately
flouted the properties of early 19th-cen-
tury fiction and he made too many per-
sonal enemies. His satire, genial but none-
theless stinging, lashed out in all direc-
tions. The reactionary Tory establishment
of post-Napoleonic England, the church,
the law, the emergent middle classes of
the new industrial era and the romantic
radicals were all alike caricatured in the
persons of characters in his novels, and
all reduced to absurdity by their own
utterances. Peacock was incapable of the
compressed ferocity of his friend Shel-
ley’s lines: “1 met Murder on the way /
He had a mask like Castlereagh.” But
for a long time he shared fully in the
disrepute associated with the Godwins,
Shelley, Byron and the other rebels
against the conventions of the age.
TLhe Victorians found him even more
distasteful. Beneath his lively mock-
ery Peacock was a profound pessimist. He
never had any belief in “progress” and
he lived long enough to ridicule the mid-
Victorian conviction that science, sanita-
tion and high-mindedness were making
mankind better and better every year.
Men of plain commonsense found his
crotchets bewildering. He seemed a mere
dilettante scoffer, a scholarly crank whose
writings were a ragbag of weird and
wonderful eccentricities. When his last
novel, “Gryll Grange,” was published
in 1860 robustly optimistic Victorian
readers must have regarded as wilful
nonsense Dr Opimiam’s remark: “Science
is one thing and wisdom another ... I
almost think it is the ultimate destiny of
science to exterminate the human race.”
Well, it doesn’t seem so funny now. As
Priestley said: “Most of the molehills
that Peacock turned into mountains have
now actually become mountains.” In fact,
one of the fascinations of Peacock is that,
in many of the fantasies and bizarre
arguments so gaily adumbrated by his
characters over their venison and claret,
we recognise the germs of the dour tech-
nocratic philosophy that rules our own
unhappy world.
Peacock’s novels fall into two clearly-
definable groups the conversation
pieces (“Headlong Hall,” “Melincourt,”
“Nightmare Abbey,” “Crotchet Castle”
and “Gryll Grange”) and the pseudo-
romances (“Maid Marian” and “The Mis-
fortunes of Elphin”). In the former, Pea-
cock’s simple formula is to gather a
group of cultured monomaniacs at a com-
fortable country house and let them talk
their heads off round tables loaded with
rich food and drink. And how they talk!
No matter what the topic paper
money, parsons’ tithes, pragmatism or
poets laureate the guests of Squire
Headlong and Squire Glowry rattle on in
endless disputations that fizz and sparkle
like champagne. For, no matter how
grotesque his argument, every one of
them is a conversational stylist. Peacock
was a hearty but not a malicious hater
and he never let even his most violent
prejudices condemn a character to dull-
ness or boorishness.
Peacock is at his most entertaining
when he turns from his pet aversions
(Coleridge and the Lake Poets, Tory re-
viewers, worldly clerics, steam engines,
bankers, etc.) to take a side-swipe at some
private lunacy. The Scottish lawyer Lord
Monboddo, for instance, wrote a book
to show that the orang-outang was a
primitive human being, an unspoilt noble
savage. One of the central characters in
‘'Melincourt” is Sir Oran Haut-Ton, who
was “caught very young in the woods of
Angola.” Despite his unfortunate inability
to speak (a crushing disadvantage in the
Peacockian world) this gentlemanly
simian achieves a baronetcy and is elected
to Parliament as a member for the rotten
borough of Onevote. Only Peacock would
have thought of satirising the unreformed
House of Commons by sending an orang-
outang to Westminster.
“Maid Marian” and “Elphin” belong
to a different category, though the latter
in particular is a minor masterpiece of
sardonic humor almost worthy to rank
with “Candide.” Peacock took the con-
ventions of sentimental historical fiction
and turned them inside out, making them
the vehicle, as he put it himself, of
“oblique satire on all the oppressions that
are done under the sun.” “Elphin,” how-
ever, is worth reading if only for the
pleasure of encountering the magnificent
drunkard Seithenyn who is, indeed to
goodness, the Falstaff of. Wales.
It is perhaps too much to expect that
Peacock will enlist a large number of
readers in the mid-20th century, yet he
deserves a better fate than remaining the
preserve of a coterie. In an age when
nonconformity has been steam-rollered
out of so much of our society we can
always do with an injection of his spirit
of obstreperous protest against the herd
of sacred cows. But, after all, it is Pea-
cock’s shimmering wit and his gorgeous
parade of characters, each one wearing
his idee fixe as proudly as a knightly
coat-of-arms. that endear him to us more
than any “message” for our times. Pea-
cock is also one of the most delightful
stylists in the English language. Few
greater writers can rival the purity and
suppleness of his prose. He has his limita-
tions, of course. The pleasure he gives
is purely intellectual. He does not move
the heart, and he never attempted to.
He brought his causes before the bar of
man’s reason, not his emotions.


Jigsaw
Mr Stone and the Knights Companion.
V. S. Naipaul. Deutsch. 16s.
IT S. Naipaul, born in the West Indies
' of Hindu parents, is enjoying con-
siderable success in England at the
moment. He has written four novels set
in the West Indies, and now in “Mr Stone
and the Knights Companion” he looks
through the eyes of an elderly Englishman
at an aspect of commercial life in London
and at old age.
Mr Naipaul has a talent for whim-
sical humor which may particularly
commend him to English critics and
readers. To take an example. Mr Stone,
his 62-years-old hero, is a bachelor of
regular habits (30 years with the same
firm), and with an intense fear of the
cat next door. At the very beginning of
the novel we witness Mr Stone arriving
home from work to be met by this green-
eyed monster. He decides to deal with it.
He cuts up a piece of cheese into small
cubes, lays them in a trail from garden
gate to bathroom, fills up the basin with
hot water (for scalding the cat) and sits
on the lavatory bowl armed with a poker
to await it. After 10 minutes in this
threatening posture he remembers that
rats eat cheese and cats eat other things.
It’s quite an amusing scene —one of
several in the book. It seems to establish
Mr Stone at once as that lovable old
character, the English eccentric, the blood
relation of Uncle Toby and Mr Wem-
mick’s Aged P. and a host of others. But
having created (so it seems) this role for
Mr Stone, Mr Naipaul changes his tactics,
and shows him to us as a serious, indeed
pathetic, figure, about to reach the end of
his useful working life, with nothing be-
hind him but a long vista of methodically
lived-through days. But then there is
another flourish of the magician’s cloak,
and Mr Stone gets married, becomes
successful, and through the pleasure and
pain of his success learns that nothing
that comes out of the heart and that is
pure ought to be exposed.
In spite of the whimsy, the jokes and
the mildly satirical jibes, the book has a
flavor of delicate sadness and nostalgia,
not of humor. Mr Stone is a victim of
time, of memory, of half-fulfilled desire.
But to say even this is to allow to the
book more positive direction than it in
fact possesses. For this is a slight novel,
playing with serious issues rather than
grappling with them; it is also an insecure
one. Mr Naipaul opens up a trail, ex-
explores it for a bit, and then leaves it to
follow another. So the reader is led,
though with no real sense of purpose, to
ponder a number of subjects and relation-
ships. Similarly Mr Naipaul begins to
examine a character without apparently
having determined either its function or
its fate. Mr Stone’s business colleague,
Whymper, is a case in point—entertain-
ing in himself, convincing enough in his
desperately conventional Bohemianism,
but not given space to breathe, let alone
to grow.
In a word, Mr Naipaul seems to have
here pieces from several jigsaw puzzles.
He has the character of Mr Stone (only
partly developed, in my opinion); the
theme of old age and the passing of time;
the very Forsterian theme of the difficulty
of transferring private inspiration and
human passion into public organisations;
the erratic, inventive, comically anxious
Whymper—a promising character; the
relationship between Mr Stone and his
wife, Mr Stone and Whymper, Mr Stone
and his sister and niece; and the theme,
more than once announced, that “all that
was not flesh was irrelevant to man, and
all that was important was man’s own
flesh, his weakness and corruptibility.”
The list could be extended. “Mr Stone
and the Knights Companion” offers all
these items hospitality, but does not per-
suade them to a purposeful and harmon-
ious existence, even as comedy. They
remain a collection of characters and
episodes, some comic, some mildly drama-
tic, some pathetic; and not even Mr Nai-
paul’s polished and attractive style, and
his use of recurring symbols, can disguise
the loose ends or give to the novel the
significance claimed for it as “a ruthless
study of the human condition.” It is
enough that it should provide a few hours’
entertainment, and that it should induce
a mood of elegaic wistfulness, not of an-
xious soul-searching.
LEONIE KRAMER
Promised Land
America, America. Elia Kazan. Col-
lins. 18s. 9d.
A Thief in the Night. Thomas Walsh.
Cassell. 19s. 9d.
Kazan realises other men’s images.
The America of his films “On The
Waterfront” and “A Streetcar Named
Desire” is Budd Schulberg’s and Tennes-
see Williams’; the deviation and corrup-
tion are their impressions. And yet it is
his understanding of the American en-
vironment and sympathy for it that dis-
tinguishes Kazan’s films and has estab-
lished him as a most realistic, if perhaps
a melodramatic, commentator on con-
temporary morality. This is the paradox
at the basis of his art. For Kazan is
not American born, and his philosophy
is European. It is through this com-
bination of the familiarity of a native and
the objectivity of an outsider that he can
so honestly examine America and trans-
late Schulberg and Williams, Inge and
Steinbeck, to the screen.
His first novel, “America, America,”
reveals just how aware of his heritage
Kazan is, and how close he feels to it. It
is the story of Stavros, one of the Greek
minority in Turkey, and his experiences
as he pursues and finally achieves his
burning desire to go to the New World.
It is America from the other end, the
dreamland of opportunity and freedom
that the poverty-stricken masses of
Europe idealise and long for. Scattered
throughout are sly jokes, mocking
America and Stavros’ vision of it; Sophia,
the rich American wife of a rug buver
and the first “independent sophisticated
woman” Stavros has ever met, promptly
seduces him and later the immigration
official slips a 10-dollar bill under his shoe
and changes the Turkish name Hohan-
ness to “an American name . . . Joe
Arness” (one remembers here the book’s
dedication, “To My Uncle, Avraam Elia
Kazanjoglou known as Joe Kazan,”
which supports the impression that the
book is not so much the author's inven-
tion as what he remembers, or remem-
bers being told). And yet its purpose is
not deliberately ironical, nor is its tone
pessimistic, for Kazan’s concern is only
partly with immigration and the probable
disillusionment. He is concerned more
with Stavros himself, not so much as the
immigrant Everyman but as one youth
and his coming of age in the modern
world.
On this level, the novel is an extension
of Kazan’s recurring emphasis in his
work in the theatre and films; the study
of one man (or woman) both as the pro-
duct of his society and as an individual
human being. On any other level
“America, America” is exceptional. Eco-
nomical and understated it proceeds like
a skeleton scenario, almost biblical in its
simplicity and dignity. There is no extra-
vagance or embellishment, just short,
direct statement and brief, vivid pictures
so that the whole book has a mood of
documentary, beautifully edited. Kazan’s
visual sense is strongly present and if his
descriptions of Anatolian village-life and
Constantinople slum-life are not quite
literal photographs, they are at least very
good paintings. His characters, too, like
the Rabelaisian bandit, Abdul, the con-
sumptive beggar-boy, Hohanness, or the
smarmy rug merchant, Aleko, are all very
much alive, while sometimes assuming the
emblematic proportions of figures in a
morality play.
Stavros himself is a superb characteri-
sation. Facing the world with an enig-
matic smile (the book’s original title was
“The Anatolian Smile”), resented by the
Turks for merely being alive, he emerges
from the innocence of a farm boy to the
experience of a murderer and a gigolo.
He learns the disparity between his good
intentions and the callous means neces-
sary to achieve them. The world treats
him cruelly—his friend is killed while he
must stand by helpless, he is robbed of all


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
O'SULLIVAN
1%. rran. A
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Fruiters, Paper Merchants,
Manufactunng Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISH ICRS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL”. BRISBANE
ANCESTRY TRACED
Historical research can help you discover
/our British ancestors. Total outlay of £A3S
brings professional report wi'h documents.
BROOKS & SIMPSON,
GENEALOGISTS,
5 Fenchurch Street, London E.C. 3
his family’s belongings on the road to
Constantinople, a prostitute steals the
meagre savings he has worked and gone
without food for a year to accumulate—
until he consciously suppresses the good-
ness that is in him and meets the world
on its own terms. He marries the pathetic
Thromna for her father’s money and
abandons her once he has her dowry. He
plays on his attractiveness to infatuate the
wealthy Sophia. And he gets to America.
Only then does Stavros’ smile turn to
laughter, but Kazan smiles too, for Stav-
ros’ success, it seems, is empty. He walks
down the gangplank more naive than
ever, and in the land of opportunity
becomes a shoeshine boy.
“America, America” is a chronicle
of emotions, unemotionally composed.
Kazan shows himself involved in Stavros’
situation, where the dream of liberty
becomes an obsession, gratified by any
means. It is the situation, one imagines,
of thousands of European migrants. They
run from poverty, discrimination and
corruption; Kazan merely intimates it,
but that is what they so often run to.
Thomas Walsh's thriller “A Thief In
The Night” also has America as its frame
of reference, but that is where any simi-
larity ends. It is an untidy pastiche of
cliche and imitation. Only the plot is
original, and that is probably because it
is so absurd that no one but Mr Walsh
would ever give it houseroom.
Various stereotypes move through it
with a certain amount of All-American
verve and gusto; very little suspense and
far less sympathy is generated, in fact
the whole book has no more than a
derivative silliness.
MICHAEL THOMAS
All at Sea
Look At Me Now. Derek Robert.
Hamish Hamilton. 31s. 9d.
A collection of travel reminiscences
can be changed by the author’s per-
sonality into a piece of worthwhile writ-
ing. If the author realises that this is not
happening, he can organise his material
along certain definite lines social
commentary, for instance, historical
reflections, geographical description, or
(perhaps the safest) straight chronological
narrative. Derek Robert rarely intrudes
as a person into “Look At Me Now”
(the name of a Queensland headland
which supplies the book’s title and noth-
ing more). He tries instead to follow all
the methods suggested above, as well as
one or two others, and the result is an
uneven hotchpotch with too little of the
unexpected and too much of the Great
Already Known.
A ship's officer, Robert begins his
book with an account of the last of a
series of trips to Nauru; but much of his
comment is directed at the mainland.
Melbourne (Archbishop Mannix), Syd-
ney (the Cross), Western NSW (sheep
shearing and the squattocracy are among
the Australiana observed with dogged un-
originality. By now it must be known
to all but the most naive and unin-
formed that, to an Englishman, Aus-
tralian women show “a general tendency
to overdress”, that there is (still) a
“Victorian attitude” to morality among
the middle-class, that the sexes segre-
gate themselves at parties. Mr Robert
presents these observations as if they
were being made for the first time.
He takes ship again for a trip in New
Guinea waters, and then a “luxury”
cruise to the New Hebrides, Fiji and
Tahiti. At Suva a dead chief lies in
state: the scene and the event are re-
counted with such flatness that I won-
dered if the author had any feeling about
the matter at all. This is one of a
number of missed opportunities, not only
for some exciting description, but also
for a little of the self : revelation which
can vivify a travel book.
ALAN BRISSENDEN
Paradox
The South-West Pacific to 1900.
C. Hartley Grattan. Ure Smith-
Michigan University Press. 60s.
Tt is a strange paradox that an American
A who has spent only a few months in
Australia should produce a book largely
about the history of Australia which
makes most of the books on Australian
history written in the Commonwealth
look like the work of children. Yet that
is what this volume in the “The Uni-
versity of Michigan History of the
World” (edited by Allan Nevins and
Howard M. Berhmann) does do.
Apart from any disagreement one may
have with some of its content, it is the
work of a mature technician in the art
of setting down and interpreting his-
tory. It does not fill the need for an
authoritative and carefully documented
history of Australia based on original
research to replace the parrot repetitions
of rehashed libel and propaganda which
pass for history among large sections of
current so-called writers in the uni-
versities of the Commonwealth capitals.
Mr Grattan is, in fact, dependent, in
dealing with the earliest phases of our
history, on these shaky propagators of the
legend of the rum monopoly and of dis-
torted pictures of its later leadership,
objectives and effects on the trends of
development and politics. But this is
inevitable in a book which does not set
out to present basic history derived from
original research, but a conspectus of
history as already written. Thus, his
inevitable acceptance of authorities in
academic fields leads him sometimes to
state palpable errors and give unbalanced
and apocryphal versions leading to invalid
opinions.
The very breadth of his sweep ensures
that there will be much missing in
salient detail. This is apparent even when
he enters the modern periods for which
there is much contemporary and diverse
writing and a great variety of opinions
to draw on. In this period of more
copious sources, however, his work
reveals itself as the product of sedulous
and catholic reading which gives remark-
able results in generally acceptable and
concise summations of important events
and trends.
M. H. ELLIS


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Labor and the Banks
"VTaturally enough, investors must give some thought to
* w'hat will happen to the share market if a Labor Govern-
ment is elected on November 30. Inevitably, thoughts turn
to the private trading banks and memories are revived of
Labor’s efforts to nationalise the banks.
At least these are the feelings of some of the older
investors. It is worth pondering that, in 14 years of non-Labor
Federal Government in Australia, a race of new investors has
grown up which has known nothing else but a Central Bank
policy under the Menzies Government. In fact, when bank
shares were squeezed and deposits called up into Statutory
Reserve Deposits, some were heard to murmur that the Liberals
were implementing Labor’s policy on the banks.
Interesting point about today’s situation is the branching
out by the banks into the fields of hire purchase by investing
in hire purchase companies as
an offset to competition from
these rapidly growing finace
houses. The hire purchase com-
panies do not come under the
Banking Act and therefore are
not accountable to the Reserve
Bank. There is no statutory
call up of deposits for them
and interest rate limits are fixed
only by State Government
legislation.
If a Labor Government gets
into power, therefore, it is pos-
sible it will explore the possi-
bility of bringing the hire
purchase companies within the
jurisdiction of the Banking Act,
controlling both interest rates
on loans and on debenture
monies raised from the public.
A further extension of this
could be a Labor Party desire
to attempt the introduction of
capital issues control, because
the Labor Government of
necessity must give careful
consideration to the needs of
Australian Consumption of Primary Energy
1962-63
The diagram above shows the sources of energy produced in
each of the Australian States, in terms of black coal equivalent.
It illustrates the proportion of each source used by the States,
together with the total (in million tons of black coal
equivalent). The Victorian figure includes power generated
in NSW and transferred to Victoria.
extensive loan raising to finance its programmes, and it will
not wish to encounter heavy competition from the finance
companies.
On past experience, Labor would have the job in front of
it to control hire purchase companies because, under the
Constitution, the authority for such matters is vested in the
States and it would be difficult to obtain uniform agreement
by the State Governments. But it seems logical for a Labor
Government to “give it a go” because the inflationary trends
envisaged in the Labor programme would cause a remarkable
boom for hjre purchase companies, followed by a heavy
demand for public debenture borrowings at rising rates of
interest.
Setback for Clore
and Cotton
A ustralian real estate developers may feel a little comforted
** by overseas reports that things are not going so well for
London giants like Messrs. Clore and Cotton.
The highly rated City Centre Properties, in which Messrs.
Clore and Cotton each holds a 15 p.c. interest, is discovering
that some of its modern, ambi-
tious development projects are
a bit slow in reaching the ex-
pected profit level.
And, as we all know by
now, delays or upsets in a de-
velopment project do not auto-
matically suspend the interest
payments on the money bor-
rowed for that purpose.
With so much building going
on, the lettings have not been
keeping pace and, according to
City Centre Properties, some
new problems have arisen
under the US system of “take-
back” leases.
The huge 95 million-dollar
Pan American building on
Wall Street, in which City Cen-
tre Properties holds a 45 p.c.
interest, was 92 p.c. let, at last
report, but involved the owners
in some expensive take-back
deals. This is a US real estate
custom under which the owner
of the new building assumes
liability for the old lease of the
new tenant. The proportionate payment for the old lease, which
may have some years to run, can become quite expensive if
the old space cannot be re-let. In fact, City Centre Properties
reports that the magnitude of these take-back obligations was
not perhaps fully realised.
As a result, the New York pioject is still 1.2 million dollars
short of its 15.5 million dollars gross rental, less the cost of
the take-back deals. The forecast maiden dividend from the
Pan Am building has been put back from 1964 to possibly
1966.


If take-back deals develop in Australia (a little of it does
go on) some profit margins could be shaved still further,
because in Sydney at least there is plenty of space in buildings
vacated by tenants who transferred to glossy new buildings.
Owners of newly-completed buildings must fight hard to obtain
tenants, judged on the 12 months’ experience of Project
Development’s subsidiary, Project Properties Pty. Ltd., whose
new office building at Wynyard, Sydney, it is understood, now
is fully let except for a few bits and pieces.
Another relatively new building in George Street, Sydney,
which originally asked for 455. a square ft. two years ago,
plus cleaning, now is willing to do business at 40s. or less.
And an insurance building in Pitt Street, Sydney, which
lost a Government tenant to the new Commonwealth Centre
building in Elizabeth Street, is still struggling to fill the gap.
Lead and Zinc Markets
Still Healthy
FFhe aura of comfortable assurance surrounding lead and zinc
markets did not receive any radical disturbance from the
report of the Lead-Zinc Study Group, which has just concluded
its Geneva meetings. A slight drooping of spot prices on the
London Metal Exchange appeared to possess no general sig-
nificance.
So far as the immediate short-term is concerned, the report
brought plenty of welcome news. Both metals are expected to
establish fresh consumption records for 1963. Consumption,
and production, too, should again go ahead in 1964.
The Bulletin last week pointed out that heavily reduced
stock levels are having to take the strain of British and Ameri-
can industrial expansion. The situation won't change much
next year, even with new lead sources getting closer into balance
with predicted consumption. In other words, consumption will
remain ahead of supply.
Perhaps the best bit of cheer to greet producers was the US
decision to consult all the Group’s members before making any
releases from the Government stockpile. Some disposals are
eventually considered probable, particularly of zinc.
Domestic shortage could well call for fairly early disposal
and indeed almost all the official zinc holdings, comprising
about 1.4 million short tons, are considered surplus to America’s
existing strategic necessities.
Exporting countries like Australia would not take kindly to
large stockpile releases, much preferring a lift in import quotas.
Meanwhile Australia’s increasing lead-zinc output continues
to move ahead of the world production rate. The major miners
can hardly be dissatisfied with ruling price levels. Lead in
particular has not discovered wider uses, as has zinc, and prices
seem reasonably fitted to traditional users.
The presence of substitute materials constitutes an effective
dampener to yearnings for much higher prices.
A Case for Genial and
Well-Fed Revolutionaries
llThich are better? Well-fed Russians or starving Russians?
" Britain, restless under the trade restrictions imposed by
NATO on the Western allies, is asking for liberalised trade
with the Soviets and is pressing America to increase the
exchange of goods with Russia.
One of the arguments is that, by raising the standard of
living in Russia, the Russians will be more affluent, less
isolated and less revolutionary.
Recent experience has shown that America’s NATO allies
are too liberal in interpreting the list of restricted exports to
Communist countries.
Although fresh from a very successful wheat deal with
Russia, America does not feel disposed to liberalise trade for
all and sundry. After all, what other nations buy from Russia
could just as easily be purchased from the US. And that
dollar gap is still a headache the Kennedy Administration.
Red Orders for
Chemical Plants
A source of irritation to the Americans is the expansion of
Russian and Red Chinese industrial and chemical plants
by tenders on world markets.. US companies may be well
equipped to tender, but they may be restricted by a ban on the
export of up-to-date technical developments or, quite often,
by the type of foreign currency available to the Russians to
pay for the contract.
Red China and Russia are installing oil refining, petro-
chemical and chemical plants on a large scale and importing
overseas equipment to do it. The latest drive to boost
fertiliser production (lack of which was blamed as the main
reason for recent crop failures) has provided the West with
opportunities for big export orders of machinery. Humphreys
and Glasgow, UK, recently sold a fertiliser plant to Red China.
Simon-Carves, UK, is supplying £stg2om. worth of poly-
thene plants to Russia, and it is claimed that Russia’s 1963-64
orders for UK chemical plant already amount to above
£stg3om. compared with £stg7m. last year.
Russia is still far behind America in the production of
chemicals, but is planning a very rapid growth with a 36 p.c.
investment increase to £ABSOm. in 1964. Production targets
include a 350 p.c. increase in polythene and a 25 p.c. increase
in plastics. However, a recent investigation into the Soviet
chemical industry revealed excessive delays in building the
chemical plants, with an estimated £2som. of plants lagging
well behind their construction schedules.
Farm Prices Again Cause Rift
in Common Market
again the Common Market countries have got into
holts on agricultural policy. The disparities between high-
cost German and low-cost French farms are proving con-
tinuously intractable.
The wished-for harmonisation of prices sounds all very
simple on paper. “During the transition period, prices which
now differ from one country to another will gradually be
brought to a common level. At the end . . . regional prices in
the six countries will be determined only by normal economic
factors such as transport costs and seasonal availabilities,” an
EEC pamphlet on agriculture puts it.
Difficulties appear quite smoothable: “This harmonisation
obviously causes anxiety to some producers who are afraid
that prices will fall, and to some consumers who fear
that prices will rise. In reality, the process of change will be so
gradual that it need not worry either group. In any case, in
most countries price movements for the various farm products
are likely to cancel each other out, as has been the rule for
industrial products in the Common Market. . .”
Things haven’t worked out just like that. Discussion after
discussion collapses under the fear of French surpluses.
Last week Dr Sicco Mansholt, a Commission vice-president
responsible for agricultural matters, tried to resolve disagree-
ments in one fell swoop. Starting with cereals, he proposed an
immediate establishment of uniform prices subject to future
annual reviews.
In other words, differences were to vanish by abolishing the
transition period; former high price farmers would get direct
subsidies (to be gradually reduced); and the expected tremen-
dous expansion of French production when its prices levelled


upwards would gi\e big surpluses which could be exported at
cut, and also subsidised, prices.
The Six had been aiming to fix 1964 grain prices by the
end of this year. However, Germany’s immediate reaction to
the Mansholt plan was to secure postponement of the discus-
sions and give the impression that their resolution might take a
long, long time.
Other meetings before the close of 1963 are expected to deal
fairly happily with rice, beef and dairy products regulations.
Yet when grains come up again on December 16, the Ministers
for Foreign Affairs and Agriculture engaged at the meetings
may well be on the fringe of lengthy arguments.
The French, apart from a solution for their precious sur-
pluses, have always emphasised that the Common Market
should possess a uniform agricultural policy in time for the
beginning of the “Kennedy Round” of tariff negotiations to
open in Geneva on May 4 next. The German Foreign Minister,
Dr Schroder, hinted a week or two ago that agriculture might
be thrown into the Geneva ring whether uniformity had been
attained or not.
America, Britain and the Commonwealth come into the
picture as well. All must be vitally concerned at any moves
towards EEC self-sufficiency in agriculture that may drastically
limit their own export opportunities.
Each of the parties, European and non-European, is also
preparing a stand on tariffs and trade expansion for the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) meetings looming
up in February or March.
Upsurge for the New Office
Space Age
TI/Ir L. J. Hooker, Sydney’s well-known real estate operator,
says that Melbourne is now going to get a big boost in
commercial building. His views are included in a real estate
round-up conducted by The Bulletin last week (page 59).
Shortly after he said it, rival company Lend Lease
announced it had paid £380,000 for four buildings in Queen
Street, Melbourne. On this site, opposite the Royal Automobile
Club of Victoria, it will erect an 11-storey, 132 ft. high building
with a 127 ft. frontage on Queen Street.
Sydney's skyline is being filled rapidly with new buildings
but the sudden upsurge in office space, as pointed out else-
where in these columns, is running ahead of tenants.
Credit Cramps
for Krupp
Suggestions that the Krupp industrial empire in Germany
had galloped ahead too fast on short-term finance and
now was running into repayment difficulties brought angry
denials from Krupp and three large banks which normally
handle most of the Krupp business.
The denials followed reports in the London “Sunday
Telegraph” and “Sunday Times”. Rumors have been going
the rounds for some time since it became apparent that the
rapid West German industrial boom was slowing. A couple
of industrial companies had folded as a result. The Krupp
company claims that its own capital, plus long-term con-
solidated loans, represent 70 p.c. of its resources.
There is no doubt that a sizeable portion of Krupp’s
financing is on short-term credit and the rumors don’t help
future borrowing. But Krupp claims that DM1,900 million
of its DM2,750 million investment during the 10 years to
December, 1962, was financed by depreciation, internal
resources and long-term loans. That leaves only DMBSO
million to be financed from other sources.
Doubtless there are some who would like to see the collapse
of the Krupp empire. Nonetheless, the company has had such
a wide variety of credit available to it (up to now) that
European observers believe the main danger of collapse could
spring from psychological jitters and their effect on available
avenues of credit.
Middle East Wide Open to
Australian Exports
fpHE more Australia’s export opportunities are talked about,
A the clearer it becomes that far too many manufacturers
and industrial companies must be lacking individual enterprise.
Over many areas of the world up till now rather thinly
cultivated by Australian business, the time has gone past for
generalised attacks like missions and richly displayed trade
ships. It’s a case for the hard man-to-man, firm-to-firm sell.
Some such reflections are induced by listening to Mr Warren
McDonald, chairman of the Commonwealth Banking Corpora-
tion, speak on his recent world tour which, so far as Australian
trade is concerned, paid special attention to the Middle East.
From Libya to the Persian Gulf “big openings” exist, Mr
McDonald avers. But he couldn’t conceal that these call for
very direct contacts or the selection of available, skilled agents.
Apparently a reasonably extensive interest in Australia can
be speedily capitalised—if only enough effort is made.
So many pleas of a similar nature are made that they grow
a trifle wearisome, as do the reiterated commonplaces of
television appeals like “Export Action”. Yet everything seems
to show that these continuous batterings need to be made.
Anyhow, in this instance, Libya, Egypt, Lebanon, Greece,
Iran and Kuwait all rapidly developing regions afford
plenty of chances. Livestock, tinned and fresh food, heavy
equipment sound the most obvious supplies being sought.
Australian engineering and technical skills could also find a
job of work, especially in association with the large European
contractors engaged in civil engineering and developmental
contracts.
Mr McDonald was able to point out how shipping facilities
are steadily improving. One Kuwait businessman proposes to
operate a 28-day turnaround between Kuwait and Fremantle
with a ship taking livestock and 20 tons of refrigerated cargo.
Kuwait, of course, provides a shining example of an oil-
stimulated area. Consider, however, the prospects in Libya.
Lavish oil discoveries and their exploitation have meant that
a country with no exports in 1956 now sends out £l3O million
worth of oil a year. Its imports now equal its exports: that
is, it is willing and able to buy £l3O million of foreign goods
a year.
The tale could be continued. Only Australian commercial
astuteness and drive are wanting.
Dolls’ Playground in
Currency Field
YlTashington reports that it is considering, with other leading
"" industrial nations, the creation of a new international
currency unit to help lift the burden of the dollar. It is
proposed to back the new unit with a combination of “sound”
currencies. Immediately exotic names spring to mind like
“liredoll”, “markdoU”, “krone-doll”, “gild-doll”.
What is confusing to Eastern races and certain Europeans
who hoard gold is why it is necessary to find a new inter-
national currency unit. Certainly the problem is that there is
not enc.ugh gold to go round. But America already is tied to
the gold standard, and gold is good enough for any form of
exchange, i


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
The Nightmare of Statistics
The Road Gets More Complicated Every Day
VTot so long ago a pretty good tab
could be kept on Australia’s
economic position by being up to date
with about half a dozen key indicators,
say, the level of overseas funds, imports,
exports, bank advances, the retail price
index, unemployment, Treasury Bill
issues and the Sydney SE industrial
shares index.
Despite the elaborations and speeding
up of statistical submissions fired at them
from official and company quarters in
recent years, many important business-
men still confine their attentions to a
handful of statistical items such as the
above. At least one does most of his
economic reckoning on the first five and
keeps the score in a little pocket note-
book, obstinately refusing to have his
judgment clouded by a mass of statistical
detail. Some old school economists,
perhaps even Sir Roland Wilson and Dr
Coombs themselves who have done so
much to cultivate our former statistical
desert, do the same and leave to the
underlings the major task of pathfinding
in the labyrinth of figures.
Those who essay to keep abreast of
everything, arguing that this is necessary
for their survival in the rat race, not only
have to look at the handouts but also to
read the increasing number of in-
terpretive pieces in the papers as well as
conduct their businesses. This is a
time-absorbing and exhausting process,
a statistical nightmare stretching into
train and tram journeys to and from
work, and into long weekends and daily
homework. There is no end to it and,
indeed, the road gets longer and more
complicated every day.
Oufferers from the nightmare may
wonder where the process of statis-
tical refinement is going to stop. We must
be getting pretty near the stage where
even the Commonwealth Statistician is
satisfied at the elaborations, that all the
demands for annual, seasonal and inter-
national comparisons are fulfilled, that
filing systems for information can be
stabilised.
One would hope, for instance, after
this year’s Rabelaisian births, that there
will be no more revisions of the formats
and reconciliations of the Budgetary and
National Accounts, that, now we have
been obliged to recast old images, these
prodigious infants will be allowed to grow
without grafting and face lifts. It would
be hoped that, say, if Mr R. J. Hawke
managed to get his seat on the Treasury
benches, the Commonwealth Statistician
would not be impelled to incorporate
some of the strange conceptions used in
his submissions before the Arbitration
Commission in recent years.
Again, one could not be too sure from
Mr Calwell’s policy speech that a Labor
Government playing Father Christmas
would be altogether happy at having
gross national product expressed in con-
stant prices. For although this year’s re-
velation that at constant prices gross
national product has shown the average
annual increase over the last decade to
have been only 4 p.c. (in fact, inter-
nationally a very favorable rate com-
pared with all but the war-shattered
economies like France and Japan)
Labor, which believes that it can get 51-
p.c., might be much happier to leave
the figures free from discounting for
price changes.
T abor would also be in a dilemma on
whether to have the Ministry of
Labor and National Service change its
definition of the work force,, which it has
consistently criticised as being too em-
bracing, consisting of employers, self-
employed, wage and salary earners, in-
cluding defence forces, rural workers and
domestics, unemployed persons and all
helping in any industry, business, trade
or service even if not in receipt of wage
or salary.
The point is that while in office Labor
would be just as anxious as Mr McMahon
to show the percentage of unemployment
as low as statistically possible; to be con-
sistent with its criticisms of the Liberal-CP
Government it would have to remove a
lot of people from the work force as de-
fined. But would it, in fact, make such a
rod for its own back?
Apart from the refinement of statistics,
for which one suspects that the East
Block in Canberra has its own special
functionary, there is the passion for
greater frequency and up-to-dateness. It
is a moot point whether, unlike the re-
finements, the speeding up of releases of
information, or even the releases them-
selves, on all economic trends is in the
best interests of the economy.
Think of the confusion in interpreta-
tion of the credit situation which has
followed the compulsory revelation of
monthly figures for the overdraft limits
of the trading banks at the same time as
figures for bank advances. In the old
days it was sufficient to have the month
by month figures of actual bank advances
from the trading banks. From these,
coupled with bank liquidity ratios and
special accounts information, it was
possible to make a fairly accurate
estimation of the credit situation as
influenced by the banking system. Now
the position is hopelessly confused by
the publication of overdraft limits.
This is not saying that the latter in-
formation is not revelant, but simply that
it is confusing and the misuse of the
latest figures to support Labor’s claims
that Mr Holt has a credit squeeze in the
making underlines the political as well
as the economic dangers in publishing
it. For while it is true that the overdraft
limits of the banks rose to a new record
in the latest month (September), actual
advances fell sharply, thus indicating
that the demand for credit from the
banks was falling, which in itself is a
fair indication that, despite the excess
supply of credit available outside the
banking system, overall demand for
credit was quite sober.
Tt will be recalled that in mid-1962 a
credit explosion was also being con-
fidently predicted by the Government’s
critics on the basis of the rising trend of
overdraft limits, but the explosion never
took place. One would have thought that
the figures for the overdraft limits of the
trading banks would be left in the con-
fidential possession of the Governor of
the Reserve Bank, who in his manage-
ment of monetary policy knows how to
use them, and if published at all then
only at six monthly intervals. Perhaps
if a Labor Government gets the chance
to pump all its promised new money
into the system next year, it will deem
it politic to pursue this course.
Against that, no businessman and
certainly no broker or investor would
complain at the speeding up of company
reports. Unfortunately, the statutory
requirement is that these need only be
made annually, even if it is almost
universal practice for listed companies
here to make half yearly interim reports,
which can be brief or informative
according to directors’ choice.
It is a pity that the new Bill amend-
ing the Victorian Companies Act 1961
does not make provision for quarterly
reports from all companies and not only
those with trustee secured debenture
capital. The latter reports have to be
filed with the Registrar and the Trustees
within one month after the end of the
quarter. That would seem to be quick
enough for anybody. However, most
people would settle for half-yearly re-
ports provided they were comprehensive
enough and covered similar information
to that required for the quarterly reports
to trustees in section 74 F (2) of the Bill
as well as full profit and loss accounts
and balance sheets.


(275)
Quarterly Economic Reviews cover world economic,
and political developments: 58 reviews, each
published quarterly.
MALAYSIA and Brunei
financial
country
The review discusses the World Bank mission’s recommendations on the tariff
structure of a Malaysian Common Market. Development financing is becoming
more difficult while the government’s revenue prospects are dimmed by the drift
in world rubber prices.
Further details from:
The Economist Intelligence Unit (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
52 Queen Street, Melbourne, C.t.
Telephone: 61 2730
VSSJBO^,
J)
FREE: 2 Booklets: Atomic Motor-
ing Age, Historical Facts, Motor
Repairs, Economy Hints.
NU-MOTO-LIFE NU-METAL (Pat.)
OVERHAULS WHILE-U-DRIVE
REPLATES worn engines, upper
cylds. main bearings, diffs, gears.
SAVES rebore. ENDS piston slap,
rattles, oil/petrol waste. Also
decarbonises. RESTORES new
compression power, top speed
zip. SAVES. Adds £sd to resale
value. GUARANTEED 25,000
miles. No results—no pay. Harm-
less finest engine. SIMPLE. Add
Re-Nu expanding liquid Nu-Moto-
Life Nu-Metal to oil, petrol or
plug ' holes. Testimonials, en-
gineers' reports, free advice
available. Open Sat. morn. Dis-
tributors required. Sold only by
RE-NU CO. (Estab. 1932). 58
Swan St., opp. Richmond Stn.,
Vic 42-1755. 4,6, 8 cyls.s
60/-, 70/-, 80/-.
Call, Post, Phone Now.
(ORDER FORM)
I enclose £ for Nu-Metal.
Name
Address "BUL."
or send for free particulars
describing action NU-MOTO-LIFE
NU-METAL.
LONDON COMMENT
Reforming the Welfare State
A complete overhaul of basic principles
By SAMUEL BRITTAN
Many people, perhaps, have ex-
aggerated ideas about how large
public spending actually is. But
when all this is said and done, rapid
proliferation of State-spending projects
does present a real problem.
The worst way out would be to limit
State spending to projects that can be
financed at existing tax rates, without
overstrain and without fundamental re-
form of the Welfare State. This ap-
proach, to which most politicians and
many civil servants instinctively incline,
will quite unnecessarily condemn us to
a crabbed, uncomfortable, pinch-penny
environment.
The conventional “progressive” alter-
native is to say that we must all pay
more taxes and grin and bear it. This,
too, is a bit dispiriting and appeals far
too much to those who are always look-
ing for excuses to cut down consumer
spending.
There is, however, another alternative,
which is to overhaul completely the
principles on which the Welfare State
is based. These are now 20 years old
and may not apply to a society where
people no longer have to be coerced
into spending on housing, health and the
upbringing of their children.
There has been a certain amount of
rather unpublicised and unofficial Tory
rethinking on this subject. But the
trouble is that these ideas would lead to
a redistribution of income against
families with children and against people
with above-average medical needs. Even
the 2s. prescription charge has brought
some hardship to poorer families full
of childish ills.
These drawbacks can be avoided if we
go right back to first principles. A little
while ago an official survey was pub-
lished in Economic Trends showing the
benefits people received from the Wel-
fare State set against their taxes and
National Insurance contributions. At
one extreme a family with three children
with an income of £9-£l2 a week
received a net gain of about £1 16s. At
the other end of the scale a married
couple without children, earning alto-
gether £29-38 per week, lost on average
nearly £9 from their transactions with
the State.
The break-even point came for a
family of two children earning approxi-
mately £ 14-£ 16 a week where the net
benefits just about cancelled out the
taxes paid.
These are, however, net sums. They
are the result of quite large gains from
family allowances, health service benefits,
education, house subsidies, etc., balanced
by quite heavy losses on tax payments.
The £l4-£ 16 family, for example, pays
out about £3 10s. to the State and gets
the same amount back in benefits.
The ultimate aim of any thorough-
going reform should be to substitute for
this hotch - potch of payments and
benefits one simple financial transaction
between the individual and the State.
Everyone, whether he pays income tax
at present or not, should be given some-
thing like a PAYE coding. Many of
the present social services could then be
commuted into a single money payment
which should be set against tax.
This would lead in the case of most
families to a lower tax bill; but the
poorer families would receive a grant
instead—which might be regarded as a
sort of negative income tax.
Fortunately we can move towards this
goal in steps, taking the paternalists
gently stage by stage. The least contro-
versial place to begin is with the small
family allowance now paid for each child
after the first, which should be set off
against tax.
The second area to tackle would be
housing subsidies, into which Sir Keith
Joseph has already ordered an inquiry.
The Birmingham Labor City Council
has just decided to charge a normal
economic rent as a general rule. It will
grant rebates to those least able to afford
the money. This should become uni-
versal practice, but the rebates should
be granted nationally, not locally.
Eventually the rebate system should
be extended to cover poorer families
living in private rented accommodation.
It is neither just nor logical that a
family paying £5 a week or more for
cramped and crowded private accom-
modation should receive no help while
their cousins in a council house receive
a big fat subsidy.
This second reform would be far
more than a mere bookkeeping con-
venience. A council house would cease
to be a golden treasure. Labor would
be much more mobile between one part
of the country and another, and families
would no longer hold on like grim death
to houses they do not need.
Thirdly, millions of old people have
(fortunately) other income apart from
. their State pension. We should therefore
concentrate all the funds now going in
flat rate pensions on those old people
who do not have adequate other means.
If the minimum standard were fixed,
under my scheme, at, say, £6 a week for
a single pensioner, a man who already
gets £5 from superannuation or pri-
vate investments would receive a
supplement of only £1 from the State.
If he had no other source of income he
would receive the full £6. —ofns


Incorporated under the Companies Act ot
New South Wales on Bth March. 1950
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
0
0
* * PER ANNUM * *
6, 8 or lO YEARS
6, 8 or 10
years
8% e,
5
years
71% P.A
4%% P.A. . . 6 months
ALSO AVAILABLE-REGISTERED REDEEMABLE
* * UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES * *
Rates from 7% P.A. for 12 months to 8%%
P.A. for 6,8, or 10 years.
SHORT TERM
RATES
3 mths
notice
6 mths.
notice
9 mths.
notice
6%
Applications can only be accepted on the torm attached
to, and referred to in the prospectus.
HOW TO INVEST: Application forms and prospectus may
be obtained from any Branch of the Bank of New South
Wales; any member of the Stock Exchange; or any office
of Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited in Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane. Adelaide, Perth, Canberra, Hobart.
Newcastle or Wagga.
POST COUPON BELOW TODAY
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George St., Sydney.
'Phone: 27-8621.
Please send me. without obligation, a copy ot your
Prospectus.
B 124
NAME
ADDRESS
8085/101
Marrying Mount Lyell
Rival suitors , Patino and Boral , seek bride
direct approach by Patino Mining
-*• group to the 8000 odd shareholders
of Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
Ltd for a marriage seemed likely to
enliven the “dead” part of the financial
year—January. But a double courtship
keeps decision right on the boil since
takeover-happy Boral presses acceptance
of a new offer.
Mount Lyell’s directors rather
peremptorily dismissed Patino’s bid,
ss. 3d. cash a share for 60 p.c. of their
capital. They welcome Boral’s combined
cash and share offer, worth about 6s.
a share, for a 30-50 p.c. interest and
have no hesitation in telling share-
holders to reserve any decision on
Patino. The case will need to be well
and clearly stated, and quickly.
The bids come just 24 months after
the mining company split up its then
strong investment portfolio into a
separate company (since taken over by
Boral Ltd) to reduce the attraction of the
company as a takeover proposition. The
thinking inspiring that split up was that
the investments would attract a bid for
the whole enterprise that would not
represent the true value of assets.
In fact, by isolation of the mining
interests (plus some retained invest-
ments) the company has made itself con-
siderably more vulnerable to a bid, and
the board in fact has reduced the justi-
fiable reasons as to why it should reject
a bid by that sale of the investment port-
folio.
It is regarded as reasonable to suggest
that Mount Lyell as a mining operator
is barely profitable at the current scale
of operation. The mining surplus in
1962-63 was £458,453 (against a paltry
£74,704 in the previous year) from a
concentrate production of 48,299 tons
(producing 10,529 tons of copper). That
appeared quite good on the capital of
£2,034,375, especially since the com-
pany held £1,998,405 in investments
(mainly a large holding in ICIANZ)
producing additional income of £60,538.
However, the mining surplus included
the receipt of the Federal Copper
Bounty amounting to somewhere around
£360,000 in the year. The Bounty is a
temporary one and has been extended
two years recently, now due to expire in
December, 1965. In assessing the current
profitability of Mount Lyell due regard
must be made of the Bounty.
The answer to increased profits from
the Mount Lyell ore body seems to lie
in an increased throughput. Presently,
the company handles about 5,150,000
tons of material a year. Of this, how-
ever, almost 3,200,000 tons is waste
material from the open cut. Mineralised
ore accounts for only 1,950,000 tons — 1
nearly all from the open-cut operation.
So, the Patino group presents itself as
the avenue to enable development of the
Mount Lyell ore body to achieve greater
profitability there. Its claims are
attractive.
Mt Lyell also has a 49 p.c. holding
in Renison Ltd, a Tasmanian tin pro-
ducer. It is clear that the steadily
increasing ore reserves at Renison are in
need of increased extraction —an ex-
pensive business, too. Control of Renison
would fit admirably into the Patino book
as Patino history is tin and it is the
major tin complex in the world today.
The Patino Mining Corporation is a
Canadian public company with some
8000 shareholders of its own but
dominated by Simon I Patino Succession
of Paris, the family company of Mr
Antenor Patino and associates. Like
Mount Lyell, Patino Mining Corporation
is a copper producer, owning four mines
in Canada producing about 15,000 tons
of copper last year.
Patino Mining also has substantial
investments including effective control
of the two English companies which
have joined it in the bid for Mount Lyell
British Tin Investment Corp. and
Consolidated Tin Investments Ltd.
Patino’s continued strength in tin is
evidenced by the fact that Consolidated
smelts just on 40 p.c. of the free world
tin production.
Other Patino Mining Corp. interests
include a major shareholding in the
quaintly named Southern Maryland
Agricultural Association of Prince
George's County Maryland Incorporated.
That harmless title covers the main
activities of the pre-Canada days of the
Patino empire. The Patino tin interests
in Bolivia were held through this com-
pany before they were nationalised in
1952.
The Maryland company has a share-
holding in the English interests of
Patino, and, as a profitable sideline,
operates the very successful Bowie race-
course in Maryland.
Patino already has Australian interests,
owning, through Consolidated Tin
Smelters, Sydney Smelting Co. Pty Ltd
the larger of Australia’s two tin smelting
businesses (O. T. Lempriere operate the
other); Heath Holdings Pty Ltd, a
Sydney plastics moulder, and G. J.
Wallace and Co. Pty Ltd, a maker of
tin alloys.


BOOK REVIEW
Economics but not for Adults
“Too Much Learning Can Be Dangerous
By J. C. HORSFALL
As professionals in all fields will tell
you, never be too proud to pick up
a book on the elements of a subject for
a refresher, even though the preface may
say it is meant for schoolboys. This ap-
plies probably more forcibly to economics
than to most other subjects because, once
out of the basic literature on the subject,
you are more likely to get lost in the
tricky woods that lie beyond.
Indeed, economics is one of those sub-
jects in which most people would be well
advised not to go beyond the schoolroom
textbook stage, a case of too much
learning being dangerous, though admit-
tedly model building on the basic bricks
can be fun for everybody so long as
illusions about their relevance to the
everyday business of life are not
compounded.
Unfortunately, in Australian literature
on economics for the general reader you
cannot point to, any one book that could
be regarded as a Bible on the subject,
though perhaps a materialistic science
should not be thought of in that way. You
notice, for instance, that in the biblio-
graphy at the back of Cheshire’s recently
published collection of essays by Austra-
lian economists only nine general books
are listed and only one of those, “The
Structure of the Australian Economy,” by
P. H. Karmel and Maureen Brunt, would
be suitable as a basic principles textbook.
All the others are- rather specialised on
particular aspects or are mostly descrip-
tive and historical treatments of the
subject.
We have nothing to equal, for in-
stance, Harold Clay’s “Economics for the
General Reader,” a copy of which I have
been carrying around these last 30 years
or more. Clay is very old-fashioned now,
but his approach and reasoning are still
as sound as a bell even if not in the
world of Joan Robinson’s work on “Im-
perfect Competition” or Keynes’ “General
Theory,” at which the general reader
would have to give up after a few pages.
T was thinking that perhaps the various
A essays of Sir Dennis Robertson,
which have been collected in a number of
volumes, might come into the class of
Clay, but Robertson’s simplicity of treat-
ment is as deceptive as the passages from
Lewis Carroll which preface most of his
chapters. Keynes always used to say that
Robertson was too old-fashioned, where-
as when he was reading the proofs of the
former's “General Theory” I remember
Robertson telling me that Keynes wasn’t
really saying anything new at all* just
making economics more complicated than
it need be.
Two of the research economists with
me at Cambridge at that time went to
other universities as professors on going
down, but though they were as adroit as
anybody in the higher flights of economic
theory as enunciated by Keynes, they
straight away went into composition with
books on the elements of the subject.
One was Alex Cairncross, now the chief
economic adviser to the British Govern-
ment. His book on the “Elements of Eco-
nomics” still reads fresh and is as good
as any since Clay for the general reader.
Lorie Tarshis was another, but his book
launched too deeply along the national
income track to be easy going for the
general reader. The same can be said of
several American textbooks. Like Tarshis’
books these are mostly glued pretty
closely to the American economy.
/"|f course, some will say that there is
still nothing to beat Benham, an Aus-
tralian who once departed for the London
School of Economics, in the ’twenties I
think it was, and was never to return to
teach in this country. I read his revised
edition five years ago and was fully satis-
fied. His work in either its old or revised
editions has been a standard textbook in
Britain for 30 years or more.
While this run-down of general books
on economics is far from being exhaustive
and probably none of them is fingered
in the university libraries these days, I
have been using them as measuring
boards for the worth of a book by J. W.
Roche and G. R. James with the cryptic
title of “Getting and Spending —An
Introduction to the Market Economy”
which has recently arrived here.
The authors, both university gradu-
ates, are currently teaching economics
to the boys of Holgate Grammar School
in the north of England. In his intro-
duction, the director of the Institute of
Economic Affairs, Ralph Harris, who
knows a good economics treatise when
he sees one, says it will be useful for
adult readers who wish to improve their
understanding of contemporary affairs
and even for students reading for the
examinations of professional bodies such
as the Institute of Bankers and the Char-
tered Institute of Secretaries.
Harris may well be right so far as he
means English audiences, but I think the
publishers will find it hard going to
establish an export market for the book
in Australia, even though there are few
books here which give the bare bones
of the subject so clearly. The trouble
with this book is its paucity of flesh to
cover the bones, and when you get to the
references to contemporary affairs to-
wards the end, you find them invariably
related to the English scene and very
sketchy at that.
Tt seems to me that a more readable
and substantial book is required from
a general economics reader for adults in
this country. They want something which
will help them understand what it is
possible, economics-wise, for governments
to do in directing the affairs of their
country. True, this will help them under-
stand that the issues involve the allocation
of scarce resources “the purpose of the
book is to explain the principles of allo-
cation in simple terms for the beginner”
but it won’t carry them very far for
the price of slogging through a lot of
quite irrelevant stuff.
What is good for the boys of Holgate
Grammar School is not necessarily good
for adult education classes here, nor
even for Australian schoolboys. Econo-
mics should not be taught as a stuffy
science any longer, but rather as a live
subject which affects everybody all the
time and about which ordinary people
should have a working knowledge to cope
with the problems of citizenship and the
ordinary business of getting, spending and
saving why the title leaves out “saving”
is not explained.
[“Getting and Spending An
Introduction to the Market Econo-
my” by J. W. Roche and G. R.
James. Published by Andrew
Deutsch for the Institute of Econo-
mic Affairs, London.]
Catering for the US
VTSW meat wholesaler Conkey and Sons
Ltd improved its profit and earning
rate in the year to June 30. Sales rose
almost 20 p.c.
Substitution of li p.c. redeemable
debentures for the 5J p.c. preference
shares assisted the rise in earning rate
from 26 to 28.3 p.c.
In rebuilding the slaughter floor.
Conkey will incorporate requirements of
the US Department of Agriculture on
meat exports to USA.
The ss. shares are currently bringing
13s. 6d. (yield 4.1 p.c.) on the market.
Dividend is 11 p.c. for the third
successive year.


HELP
l
“CROESUS”
To Boom or not to Boom ?
Economic and political wires crossed
Tt is one thing to be all set for a boom
-*■ but quite another to allow one to
take place or to argue that one is in-
evitable whatever action the authorities
may take to moderate any rise in effective
demand that may be occurring or in
prospect.
When the economy is buoyant, some
people see signs of impending boom
everywhere. These are usually the same
people who argue that the Government
is being lethargic when the economy is a
little off color. They want full employ-
ment badly but when they see it coming
they are frightened lest there be a boil-
over into inflation.
At present this school appears to have
got its economic and political wires
crossed. Its economic self is saying that
there is a surfei of liquidity, that people
are all pursed up and poised to take their
money from savings banks and spend it,
that a flood of export income and over-
seas capital is coming into the country
and that incomes are flowing more
strongly from industry. So it is crying
out for repressive action by the authori-
ties before inflation pressures break
through the ramparts.
Its political self is saying something
quite different, as if the boom signs it
sees are not there at all. It is arguing
that the ALP's new proposals for in-
creasing Government expenditure are
quite feasible and that even if, as Mr
Calwell says, they would not all be im-
plemented at once, the immediate in-
crease entailed in expenditure would be
healthily accommodated by rising Gov-
ernment revenue.
They cannot have it both ways.
fTUKiNG the short-term prospect, say for
A 1964, either there is a case for
dampening down effective demand or
there is not. If there is, then the authori-
ties must cut back Government expendi-
ture, the one certain source of income
generation in their direct control, and in
no circumstances, even for political
expediency, should they increase it.
It is not even a question whether rising
Government revenue would be sufficient.
An inflation today begets higher Govern-
ment revenue tomorrow. It is strictly a
question of the overall pressure of effec-
tive demand on resources and the adjust-
ment of that demand to available re-
sources over a term.
Government expenditure does not flow
in isolation to the income generated by
the private sector of the economy. They
both go into the general stream and, in
the broad, the price level is determined
by the impact of that stream on re-
sources. If the Government increases its
spending to make up for a deficiency in
income generation from other sources,
well and good in the interests of full
employment. But if it does so when
there is no deficiency from the other
sources or when there is a surplus from
them this is simply putting an undue
strain on resources and creating inflation-
ary pressure. You get overfull employ-
ment and all the diseconomies going
with it.
Ane would say that at the moment the
economic self of this school is o‘nly
half right. Income generation is cer-
tainly flowing strongly on all the fronts
mentioned, certainly strongly enough to
preclude an increase in Government ex-
penditure if stability is to be maintained.
If the propensity to spend were to in-
crease sharply, as they seem to think will
happen, and the contribution to effective
demand from other sources of income
generation continues to rise, as seems
highly probable, then nothing less than a
sharp reduction in Government expendi-
ture will be necessary next year.
On the other hand, action can readily
be taken to moderate the effect of excess
liquidity on the stream of effective de-
mand, which is in any case at one re-
move, either through open market selling
of bonds by the Reserve Bank, calls to
special deposit account or adjustments
to bank interest rates. All that Dr Coombs
has found necessary to do on the liquidity
front thus far is to tell the trading banks
to watch their extensions of overdraft
limits, so at least he doesn’t share the
view that panic action should be taken.
In this regard a half-truth is being
given currency to the effect that excess
liquidity as demonstrated, so the argu-
ment runs, by the large amount going into
the short-term money market and driving
down rates there, is going to find expres-
sion in a big increased effective demand.
As the “Financial Review” put it, “so
great is the supply of idle money, in fact,
that to some extent the situation has
taken on an air of fantasy and the ques-
tion agitating many minds is, with all
this money around, when is somebody
going to start spending it?”
However, to show that when it said
“spending” it meant it, a few days later
in another article heralding the boom
the “Review” stated that one of the main
features of the current economic situa-
tion is “a great supply of idle money
so great that it seems only a question
of time before it moves into the spending
stream, adding to the rising tide of effec-
tive demand.”
Even substituting “investing” for
“spending” it is important to realise that
most of this money is short-term capital,
very little of it is awaiting investment
in industry and only a small fraction of
it is awaiting a direct spending oppor-
tunity. The greater part is not “idle” at
all.
if it seems to be increasing, com-
pared with the vast sums in bank
deposits, most of which are used actively
in the commercial and industrial life
of the country, the quantity of “idle”
money is in fact marginal in the overall
total money supply. Though in the un-
likely event of it being suddenly launched
into the spending stream it would cer-
tainly help to produce boom conditions,
there is a bigger potential danger in the
possibilities of switching out of savings
in the event of inflation. The latter pos-
sibilities provide the strongest argument
for rejecting proposals for adding new
layers to Government expenditure in the
coming year and for economic pro-
grammes designed to keep resources at
full stretch all the time.
Both political parties are making big
play on plans for growth, but whereas
the ALP wants its higher rate of growth
combined with a big all round increase
in social services and social investment
which looks a bit too much, the Govern-
ment, being fully aware of the import-
ance of moderating its programmes to
keep within the limits of resources, has
had its taste of booms and inflations
alike and is wisely going for a lot less.
It may well be possible to get the
growth rate up to an average of 54- p.c.
a year indeed we far exceeded that
in 1962-63, in real terms too but we
will spoil our chances if we put such a
strain on resources next year that we let
a boom generate and get an inflationary
spiral which ultimately would have to be
stopped in some way or other with a
consequent period of recession to follow.


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Registered 19th December, 1929)
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
UNSf CVfify
Q
PER ANNUM 7 & 10 YEARS
4f/ 0 PER ANNUM FOR 12 MONTHS
HOW TO APPLY
Applications will be accepted only on the printed
forms attached to the Prospectus. Your copy avail-
able from all Members of Stock Exchanges, over 750
Branches of the A.N.Z. Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches.
60 Collins Place. MELBOURNE Tel.: 63 6121
Branches at
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
HOBART - CANBERRA - DARWIN
Underwriters'. lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane.
843 IN
Building Boom in the Making
Some snags in housing must be overcome
TlTell before the two mam parties in
the Federal elections pushed housing
policy to the forefront of the hustings
once more, a clearly visible building up-
surge was gathering pace throughout
Australia. By the end of the September
quarter this year it seemed obvious that
the boom conditions of 1960 were being
overhauled.
Practically every aspect of the move
to new construction peaks looks far bet-
ter founded, industrially and financially,
than the earlier hectic period, and far
more capable of sustaining.
What frequently remains a problem,
however, is channelling finance for in-
dividual land and home purchase. That
is the situation both Liberal and Labor
plans aim at, especially as younger
people are concerned.
The article immediately following gives
an account of present land and house
dealings at the grass roots, from the real
estate agents’ points of view. Perhaps the
host of instances, together v/ith some
evidence of stickiness, rather tends to
conceal the tremendous general strength
behind the rise in building activity.
During the quarter ended September,
29,298 new houses and flats were ap-
proved for construction 76 ahead of
the September, 1960, quarter, the pre-
vious top in home building. The value
of these approvals reached £100.4 mil-
lion, some £7.4 million above the cor-
responding 1960 figure.
Actual approvals for the September
month, at 10,292, were the best for any
separate month since August, 1960, when
the figure was 10,396.
Overall the picture looks just as
healthy, for non-dwelling approvals
totalled £74.2 million in the September
quarter, against the 1960 quarter’s £64.7
million.
Though the official figures also sug-
gest that the value of work done may be
lagging somewhat behind the rate of new
approvals, the growth in houses and flats
does stand out when compared with the
fairly steady non-dwelling section.
In the abstract this great advance has
been assisted by the progressive lifting of
governmental and institutional lending for
housing. Particular attention has focused
on the increased volume of loans now
permitted to the savings banks, which
up till recently have been lending at a
rate of about £lOO million a year
something like double the rate in 1960-
61 and 1961-62.
The Budget came along to allow the
savings banks to place up to 35 per cent
of depositors’ balances in housing, in-
stead of a hitherto permitted 30 p.c. It
is estimated that more than £3OO million
could be added to the level of loans out-
standing at June, 1963.
Nevertheless the stories of struggles
to find the deposits deemed adequate for
starting land and home purchase still
continue. The lending limits, too, of
banks, building societies and insurance
companies get strenuously criticised. Most
savings banks, for example, put their
own voluntary limit at £3,500.
As critical as any of these hindrances,
for it comes at the beginning of the new-
home process, is an evident rise in the
price of well-situated land. One much
criticised cause of this is a tendency for
public authorities to pass the charge for
installing normal services to site-develop-
ers, who in turn and quite naturally pass
a proportion to the individual lot buyer.
The respective party election proposals
still need examination in the atmosphere
of these various snags to easy home-buy-
ing, though no one can possibly doubt
that the building wave will in any way
cease to go solidly ahead.
The managing director of A. V. Jen-
nings Industries, Mr A. V. Jennings,
believes that housing and general build-
ing costs are at least 6 p.c. higher than
necessary. His plea for a co-ordinating
committee could be a welcome addition
to the financial benefits called forth by
the elections.


Smiles from Real Estate Agents
Good prospects whoever wins the election
Real estate agents in Sydney say
they are enjoying good business at the
moment but they expect a lull until
after the elections while buyers wait
to witness the implementation of hous-
ing policies promised by both parties
in election campaigns. Regardless of
which party wins the election, real
estate agents expect to gain from a
boost to housing finance.
Sydney’s real estate agents generally are
enjoying their most prosperous and
busy period since the 1960 boom, but at
prices much more stabilised than in 1960.
Business, they say, is “strong”, in all
classes of real estate . . . houses, both
new and old, land, home units, flats,
shops and factories. And they think busi-
ness will continue to improve.
While new building approvals are well
up on the corresponding period last year
it seems that sales of old homes have shot
ahead too. Only figures for NSW are
available, and then only real estate con-
veyances and transfers. But the figures
are a fair indicator of how well real
estate agents are going.
Based on statistics for the first four
months of this year, the projected annual
number of conveyances and transfers in
NSW looks like exceeding 120,000 . . .
the highest ever and more than 10,000
above last year’s figure. Consideration
paid for conveyances and transfers pos-
sibly could exceed £4BO million, another
record and about £BO million higher
than the previous year’s figure.
Real estate agents and property de-
velopers keenly await the outcome of the
Federal elections at the end of this month
to discover how the winner’s housing
policy will affect business. “It doesn’t
really matter who wins,” said one, “either
way it'll be good for us.”
Sydney agents canvassed by The Bul-
letin last week generally wore pleased
expressions. Some are affected by the
different areas in which they operate.
The higher density Eastern suburbs, for
instance, have a greater trade in old
homes than parts of the North Shore
where there still is room to build new
homes.
Mr R. W. Frewin, joint managing di-
rector of North Shore Land Co. Pty Ltd,
says: “We have found that in recent
months there has been a greater return of
confidence in real estate for investment,
particularly in land sales and new homes.
The confidence is mainly in the domestic
field although it has shaded over into the
commercial field.
“In the medium and low-priced homes
the market is good but builders aren’t
as keen to build because they don’t get
the return they do from the higher-priced
houses. We are building a couple on spec,
ourselves because we’re so confident of
the market. Builders have been able to
buy land a little more reasonably.”
Mr Frewin said his company, which
was connected with shopping centres at
St Ives, Northbridge, Hillsdale, Rockdale
and Hornsby, had noticed that shopping
centres affected the prices of small shops.
“They have a good effect on the geog-
raphy of the area. But there should be
a note of caution to inexperienced de-
velopers going into shopping centres. Well
planned and located centres are settling
down nicely. But badly located centres
have troubles.”
Mr Frewin said people in the northern
suburbs of Sydney were “still being edu-
cated to home units. For a while there
was a little oversupply but now there is
a good demand for them. Mainly older
people go for them after they have
raised their families. There will be an in-
creasing demand for them.”
11/fR Newell Shead, managing director
of E. A. and F. Shead, another North
Shore real estate agency, said there was
a shortage of home units in Willoughby
and Kuring-gai municipalities. Reluctance
of the councils to approve home unit
developments had caused the shortage.
He said good land sites on the North
Shore were in short supply and expensive.
“The good sites are in the £4OOO to
£lO,OOO price bracket. Remote sites, that
is, away from the railway stations, are
more plentiful. Well-priced homes in the
£lO,OOO price bracket are in short supply
but there is a good demand. Over £14,000
they are more plentiful and there is a
good demand. Buyers are very keen.
“Old homes are keenly sought and
their prices have been well maintained.
Since 1960 there has been a slight in-
crease in price but the scarcity of houses
has governed this. And finance for older
homes is in short supply. But in spite
of the finance situation the demand is
still good.
“We are having a good healthy time
there is no boom but the business is very
satisfactory. I will be quite happy if it
continues along this line. There is a good
demand for the right product. Our sales
for this year are up on last year. And the
whole year has been remarkably steady.”
Northern beaches real estate agent Mr
W. Weight, of Weight and Co. Pty Ltd
at Dee Why, says real estate prices have
remained fairly stable over the past ten
years, “or at least there hasn’t been any
extreme rise. The tendency now is to-
wards the project home rather than the
spec, home because the buyer can see
exactly what he’s getting. It’s good, it’s
modern and it’s well displayed.
“But the project home still needs a lot
of development to bring it up to the
American level where you spend 25 p.c.
less in working time to pay for the house
than you do here. But there still is and
always will be a demand for good specu-
lative houses.”
Mr Weight said the high deposit on
old homes was “a great problem. But it
seems there will be some relief because
both Sir Robert Menzies and Mr Calwell
have said that they would set up a hous-
ing administration.
“At the present stage the real estate
business is stable. During the last year
it has been a shade towards a buyer’s
market rather than a seller’s market,
which is quite healthy. The demand for
rented property continues to be high at
reasonable rents. If finance will be avail-
able in the future as has been suggested
then houses will be available at a younger
age than at present,” Mr Weight said.
Mr K. G. Hurst, principal of K. G.
Hurst of Beecroft, says there is good
sound activity in the real estate industry.
“Nothing spectacular, but it is very
steady,” he said. “Prices are very keen,
especially in lived-in property.”
Mr Hurst said the project builder was
having a better time than the speculative
builder. “Big changes have taken place
in the last three or four months. People
are more knowledgeable about buildings
at the moment. The spec, builder is find-
ing it very competitive. We’re always
short of property even though it is a
buyer's market. Good property is always
hard to get. We could do with more resi-
dences in the £lO,OOO to £12,000 bracket.
“ A bout two months ago enquiries were
very patchy but now they seem to be
picking up again. This year is definitely
up on last year which was up on the
year before. No matter what Govern-
ment goes in in the elections things will
be pretty steady.”
Mr Hurst said builders were forcing
real estate agents into dealing with pro-
ject developments. He said the price struc-
ture of project developments had made
them a worthwhile proposition. “The
builders are dropping their profit margins
to compete. Land prices are definitely not
inflating they’re high but there is no
inflationary tendency.”
Also in the southern suburbs is F. R.
Shaw, estate agents. Principal Mr F. R.
Shaw says home units in his area “are
very tough to sell at the moment be-
cause there aren’t any. But I think they
will come back again. The council’s dilly-
dallying has driven the spec, builder


away. They have all gone over to the
other side of the Harbor.
“Business is quiet at the moment. I
think people are waiting to see what hap-
pens in the election. But business is get-
ting better all the time. And the big
£3t million Myer development at Mir-
anda will have its effect. The possibilities
in the Sutherland Shire are like some-
thing Jules Verne would have written
about. It’s fantastic.”
Business is not like the boom time of
a few years ago, finds Mr N. E. J. Fripp,
principal of E. F. Fripp and Co., of
Bankstown. “But our figures are com-
parable with last year’s, and business is
very good. Prices seem to have stabilised
now.
“There is far more demand for new
homes than there is for old ones. It is too
hard to get finance for the old ones.
It is much easier to get hold of finance
for the new homes. Bankstown real estate
is going through a phase of un-
certainty due to the large de-
velopments going on. Shop
prices are down because of the
new shops under construction at
the moment.
“But real estate is definitely on
the move. I can’t see any rea-
son why it shouldn’t keep going
for many years to come,” Mr.
Fripp added.
The real estate industry, ac-
cording to Mr Alan Harley, of
A. A. Harley at Burwood in the
Western Suburbs, is “spas-
modic.” He says there have been
enquiries but they have been
very patchy. Business is on the
move again but it is still quiet
compared with a few years ago.
“There is a general lack of confidence
on the part of the buyers. There is no
real strength in anything into which
people have to put a lot of money. Shop
prices, for instance, are holding but the
sales aren’t moving quickly. The advent
of the chain stores has had its effect on
the small shops. People won’t buy be-
cause of the small returns they offer.
“We have a quiet confidence for the
future development of real estate. Our
figures for the last quarter are up, which
helps instil confidence,” Mr Harley added.
A director of J. A. Somerville Pty Ltd
of Ashfield, Mr Eric Morrison, says
business has been quiet. “But the industry
has been pretty steady. This has been
caused by the lack of good property to
sell. We get a lot of New Australian
buyers who want a lot of bedrooms. And
a house with more than three bedrooms
is pretty hard to get. People are staying
where they are because they can’t match
prices on the North Shore or in other
areas.
“Property is still a good investment.
A block of six to eight flats costing, say,
£28,000 will give a fairly good return.
There has been a return of confidence
in real estate as an investment. The
prices seem to rise about 5 p.c. to 7 p.c.
every year. It has never gone backwards.
We are getting much higher prices than
we would have last year.”
Mr Morrison says his figures are down
on last year’s. “We don’t know why . . .
we wish we did. It is never a very good
time in the July, August, September
quarter. Sales are definitely down on last
year. Prices are still as high although our
turnover is down. With the weather get-
ting better business will pick up. The
three months of rain we’ve had this year
was a killer. It has definitely cut into the
business.”
Eastern Suburbs dealers seem to be
enjoying good business. David L.
Dalziell of Bondi finds his sales “buoy-
ant.” This month it seems to have settled
down a little.
“I am not sure if the election promises
will have any effect. It always seems to
get a little quiet just before an election
when people are waiting to see if housing
promises will be put into effect. In the
last six months it has been most buoyant
—the best for many years. My figures
are up 20 p.c.
“The high deposit required on an older
home restricts the number of people who
buy. There are not many young people
buying, they are mostly middle-aged.
Young people may start to come into the
area with the easier finance both parties
have promised.
“Nobody knows what is going to hap-
pen if Mr Calwell gets in. There is an
impression that if he gets in there will
be a lot more prosperity. People are wait-
ing to see what happens before they buy.
“If we could sell houses for under
£lOOO deposit we could sell a lot more.
“Home units are selling more in the
last six months than they have for years.
“The industry is sound at the moment.
I can see no reason for it not continuing
to get better. I’m quite confident that it
will continue,” Mr Dalziell added.
John A. Gleeson, another Eastern Sub-
urbs agent at Coogee, says his figures
and sales are “definitely better than last
year.” He says the demand for houses is
“excellent.” The demand for all types
of property is “higher”.
“Land as such in the Eastern Suburbs
is a thing of the past. The only land you
can find now is where buildings have been
knocked down to make way for new
developments. There is a good demand
for larger blocks of land in the area
for development into shopping centres,
motels, etc.
“The high deposit on old homes drives
away a lot of business here where there
are very few new homes being
built. I would like to see an
adoption of the scheme they
have in America where the Gov-
ernment underwrites loans, from
a recognised source. Both Men-
zies and Calwell have promised
something similar. The deposit
for newly married people at the
moment is ridiculously high.”
Head of Sydney’s largest real
estate firm, Mr L. J. Hooker,
says there is buyer resistance in
the market at the moment.
“They fear another credit
squeeze,” he said. “But real
estate is picking up again. Buy-
ers are still very selective and
choosy, competition is very keen.
“We are in for a very prosper-
ous period and there will be stab-
ility this time. With all those election pro-
mises about the housing finance people
are waiting to see if it will really work.
If the Government makes finance avail-
able for older homes there will be a shift
to that section.”
Mr Hooker feels Melbourne will
shortly begin large shopping centre de-
velopments. “We have had a look at both
capital cities. Sydney has been well
catered for, now it is Melbourne’s turn.”
Mr Hooker added that his figures for
the last quarter were up on the corres-
ponding quarter for last year.
Although the real estate agents are
enjoying a sound market with a strong
demand it seems that business will taper
off slightly until after the elections on
November 30. The implementation of
the victor’s housing policy should give
realty another shot in the arm.


BBS
Smith-Corona
CORSAIR
s*
NO OTHER PORTABLE
HAS TABULATOR AND 2 COLOUR RIBBON
FOR
MACDOUGALLS LIMITED
56-58 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY. 29-1151
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, CANBERRA
and ALL LEADING STORES AND STATIONERS
Who is for Stamp Trading?
Australian housewives may get new hobby
\Uhat is stamp trading and how does it
*' work? Is it big business and for
whom? Who gets the profits? What are
its effects on the structure of retail trade?
Why have some of the biggest retailers in
the US, Canada and Britain refused to
have anything to do with it? Is it likely
to be introduced in Australia?
Australia has had many selling gim-
micks in its time but thus far our retail
traders have not been infected by the
American plague of trading stamps which
has swept Canada and is now in the
process of doing the same in Britain. How
long will it be before such stamp collect-
ing becomes the favorite hobby of our
housewives? In the US three in every
four people collect them, in Canada every
second person and in Britain one out of
four with the proportion mounting
rapidly. In the US stamp trading is said
to involve 15 p.c. of all retail sales.
At its simplest a trading stamp is a
bonus to purchasers of goods or, in effect,
a discount on the purchase price. In
Britain retailers in the game usually hand
customers one stamp for every 6d. worth
of goods purchased. Stamps collected
for every <£loo or so of purchases en-
title the customer to gifts with a retail
price of about £2 10s.
The stamps are exchangeable for the
gifts at certain stores run by the stamp
companies. A wide variety of gifts are
available from 15s. upwards, so a house-
wife can exchange her stamps after £3O
worth of purchases or save up a large
number to get one big item, according to
choice.
The stamps are sold to the retailers by
stamp companies having licensing agree-
ments with selected retailers who pay
according to the number of stamps they
take and get supplies of gift catalogues,
stamp books and promotional material
thrown in free. The stamp companies
pick and choose their retailers, being
careful not to license more than two rival
retailers in the same town and to get a
good sprinkling of traders, such as a
supermarket, garage, hardware store, dry
cleaner and butcher in the same parade
of shops, so that the housewife is tempted
not to look further afield but to fill up
her books quickly in the same area where
each shop to give stamps encourages her
to trade at stores dealing with the same
stamp company.
This has become big business for the
stamp companies, whose profits have
averaged between 5 and 6 p.c. of turn-
over in the United States in recent years.
Their profits come not only from the
sale of stamps that are sold for cash long
before the gifts they will eventually pur-
chase can be claimed, but mainly from
buying gifts wholesale, often on favor-
able terms and in bulk quantities, and
handing them out at retail prices in re-
demption centres. Their main expenses
are the cost of general administration,
producing catalogues, stamps and books,
sending out promotional literature and
establishing and running the gift redemp-
tion centres.
The spread of trading stamps has split
the retail trade in Britain into two camps,
one whose members are in and the other
strongly opposed to it. Retail margins,
particularly in the field of groceries
which are the main target of the stamp
traders in Britain at present, are bound to
suffer, whether the retailer joins the
trading stamp brigade or refuses reso-
lutely to have any truck with such a
scheme.
Ignoring the fractions of purchases for
which no stamps are given away, it
means an equivalent reduction in the
retailer’s effective turnover, with the
costs of operating the scheme as a
further drain on profits. The stamp
companies admit that an increase of
some 12 p.c. to 15 p.c. in sales is needed
to offset the cost of stamp trading. But
they claim that increases of 30 p.c. or
more follow the introduction of stamps
to an area.
Until recent weeks, little more than
3 p.c. of UK retail sales was associated
with trading stamps. The 30 or so UK
stamp companies, linked to some 30,000
shops and petrol stations, had the field
to themselves. Of these, Green Shield,
which started in 1958 and has around
65 p.c. of the stamp business in this
country, is by far the largest.
Earlier this year, stamp sales turn-
over was put at £6m. It was expected to
reach £lom. by 1965 and £3om. by
1970. Now these estimates seem con-
servative. Green Shield alone predicts
a turnover of £Bm. in 1963—double the
1962 figure.
It is difficult to see how the housewife
can fail to gain and the argument that
prices will be raised to cover the extra
cost of the stamps looks quite untenable.
How can the retailers who offer stamps
hope to raise prices, while their com-
petitors detesting any such scheme are
cutting the retail mark-up and offering
cheaper goods?


DfetfiuL
LIQUEURS
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
cherry
The
perfect pair
for
perfect
entertaining
9 >
ULOV
vodka
VODKA
MARKET POINTERS
An Unexpected Headache
Tt was a bit of a shock to old-timers to
see the net profit of WASHINGTON
H. SOUL PATTINSON drop this year
for the first time since 1933.
From the manner in which the com-
pany steadily built up its investments, it
looked as if increased income would be
an annual event.
Investment income did rise, in fact,
and the profit setback was explained by
a fall of £33,000 in trading profit.
There was a substantial fall in the
price of drugs listed in the Free Medi-
cine Scheme.
Investors are keenly interested in this
aspect and the directors would be doing
shareholders a favor by giving as much
information as possible on how these
price reductions are likely to affect re-
sults for the current year.
If the company can maintain its cur-
rent earning rate of 23.6 p.c., giving
ample cover for the 15 p.c. dividend, it
will not lose many friends.
In fact, the shares of this low-yielding
but bonus-giving company have always
been tightly held and a more plentiful
supply of scrip on the market would be
welcome.
★ ★ ★
"VToticed a rash of call option buying
' for MOUNT ISA shares at around
3 55. 6d. The buyer of such option must
pay something like 3s. sd. for a six
months call which means that he expects
the price to rise by at least that much
within six months.
Those who are prepared to lay out the
355. 6d. without the loading of a call
option premium might find it remunera-
tive.
The price looks high, but Mt. Isa share
prices have always discounted the future
a long way ahead.
★ ★ ★
I"|ne thing is certain, irrespective of
which Federal Party gains power on
November 30. Both parties have com-
mitted themselves to an extensive hous-
ing and home financing programme which
will stimulate the building trades.
Suppliers of building materials must
benefit. But it is as well to remember
that any pressure on home buying tends
to push prices to levels which are out
of the reach of many potential buyers.
If, for example, young marrieds save
£750 and obtain a £250 bonus under
the Prime Minister’s plan, then borrow
£3,500 from the savings banks, they are
limited to a house costing £4,500, with-
out considering legal costs, stamp duty
or any other item. If home prices move
out of this range, it means a larger cash
deposit and a reliance on the proposed
home loans insurance scheme.
Nevertheless, building trades and sup-
pliers of furnishings must look forward
to a lift in demand. Suppliers like
JAMES HARDIE ASBESTOS should
gain. Farther down the line, the re-
tailers also must derive some benefit in
supplying home furnishings, kitchenware,
etc. Even the hardware people, who
have complained about dull patches,
should see a revival.
★ ★ ★
A fter a fall of £2.2m. in sales and a
cut in dividend from 10 p.c. to
61 p.c., CONCRETE INDUSTRIES
( MONIER ) LTD. cheered up its stock-
holders with a 40-page report massively
illustrating the company’s operations.
Stockholders might be more interested
in items like the effects of existing com-
petition and losses on civil engineering
contracts, notably the Hobart Bridge.
The company says these losses were
written off as they occurred, and prog-
ressive claims for reimbursement of
extra costs incurred are being lodged. It
is assumed that these claims for reim-
bursement are not against the company
and, if so, it would be rewarding to know
just how the company is going on those
claims.
The large capital of Concrete Indus-
tries .. . now £B.6 m. after a vigorous
takeover splurge in recent years . . . puts
a strain on earning rate when competition
is keen. So stockholders, although expect-
ing some recovery, must weigh dividend
prospects very carefully. The current mar-
ket still puts a premium of about 60 p.c.
on the ss. shares to provide a yield of
4 p.c. But more information is needed
on how the expected recovery is trans-
lated into actual net earning rate on
capital.
★. ★ ★
VTational Consolidated has so many
(some say too many) fingers in the
industrial pie, it is only to be expected
that one or two of them would get fewer
plums than others even in a very good
year like last one when sales on a
comparative basis increased by 15.7 p.c.
and earnings lifted from 31.5 to 38.1 p.c.
Naturally the automotive divisions
contributed most to the good result and
the report expresses satisfaction on the
performance of the shopfitting, window
frame and other building equipment
lines, but not on greeting cards, eyelets
and air - conditioning activities which
seem to have been rather a drag on
profits.


HOTEXj
m
Melbourne
To the out-of-town and interstate traveller,
The HOTEL WINDSOR offers a tradition of
hospitality and service, unrivalled
among Australian Hotels.
We invite you to consider the combined
advantages of the Windsor’s city location
and its excellent appointments.
mi
Miff
I
>• >.
5K
C
AT AUSTRALIAN
Spring St., Melbourne 63 0261 (30 lines)
(Parliament House opposite)
Telegrams “Telwinsor” Melbourne.
HW73. VIC2
OIL CORNER
Natural Gas in Demand
/Vl exploration drilling in Australia is
bringing natural gas wells into
operation and the commercial aspect of
these underground reservoirs must be
considered seriously.
Australia, although undeveloped and
under-populated by European standards,
must think in terms of future demand
and, in certain instances, natural gas
would be highly competitive with other
sources of power. The major cost is the
fixed capital outlay for the installation
of equipment, notably a pipeline. Over-
seas experts say that 90 p.c. of the cost
of natural gas is in the cost of capital
equipment. And, if the cost of produ-
cing other sources of power rises in
accordance with wage increases, etc.,
natural gas will achieve many obvious
advantages.
Because Australia is a country of
vast distances, the cost of pipelines be-
comes a major stumbling block. But
overseas experience shows that early
planning pays dividends in this sort of
thing.
France, for example, is now seriously
concerned over future supplies and
recently appointed Union Generate de
Petroles to report on methods of bring-
ing natural gas into France. Local sup-
plies in France are expected to decline
within 14 years . . . sooner if the Com-
mon Market target for economic expan-
sion is achieved.
It follows that if consumption of
natural gas increases rapidly to keep
step with the expansion of the Common
Market, possible suppliers such as Hol-
land would be more likely to retain
their indigenous supplies for their own
use. Algeria, despite its political un-
certainties, is the most likely source
suggested for France’s supplies, either by
pipeline or carrying liquefied gas in re-
frigerated tankers.
Natural gas supplies only 5 p.c. of
France’s total energy requirements of
142 million coal tons. This possibly
could rise to 10 p.c. in a decade but, by
that time, the total demands for energy
also would have grown to such an extent
that the actual consumption of natural
gas would be treble the present consump-
tion.
If countries like France, which also
have coal supplies, are forced to give
serious attention to such matters, Aus-
tralia could do well to think about it
at this stage of her development.
★ ★ ★
A Is. call by MID-EASTERN didn’t
help the market. This is a factor
which must be faced squarely by oil
speculators during the dull period when
there is not much encouraging news
around. Writers of oil share “call options”
usually welcome a call up of money on
contributing shares because the market
tends to weaken. Meanwhile, they can
claim the ccdl for tax purposes and the
buyer of the stock option has a harder
task in exercising the option because the
call-up of capital often puts the exercise
price at a high enough level to justify
a bit extra in brokerage.
★ ★ ★
HThere has been some consistent buy-
ing of call options in FARMOUT
DRILLERS whose shares are selling at
around Is. in the market.
The company has several interests
going, which gives it an each-way bet
in someone else’s area. Evidently the
call option buyers anticipated Farmout's
acquisition of its own offshore lease in
the Gulf of Carpentaria.
★ ★ ★
those who believe that someone is
due to strike something interesting
in the oil business, the current market
offers some opportunities for the specu-
lator. It’s not much use chasing shares
when they run up. But, at the moment,
it is possible to pick up half a dozen
interests at very cheap prices. If there
is a strike by any one of them, or if an
outsider is lucky to get a good “show”,
the oil market usually rises in sympathy.


amazing proof of
ASAHI PENTAX
perfection
A contact print from an original
Asahi PENTAX 35 mm. negative
compared with a section of a huge
35 sq. ft. one-piece enlargement.
*
L
SUPERB NEW ASAHI
PENTAX MODELS
Asahi PENTAX SV with built in self
timer and automatic resetting film
counter. Automatic Super Takumar
Fl.B lens and E.R. case £9O.
Asahi PENTAX S.I.A with automatic
resetting film counter. Automatic Super
Takumar F 2 lens and E.R. case —£7s.
m
Full range of Auto-Takumar Lenses
18 mm. to 1000 mm.
from your photo dealer
K/C663
INVESTMENT SECTION
Spinning a Long Yarn
Tntegration and rationalisation of the
British textile industry continues to
make fascinating reading. Last week an
Australian firm was woven into the
tangled web.
Courtaulds of the UK may eventually
acquire a 14 p.c. interest in STP Hold-
ings Ltd (formerly Silk and Textile
Printers Ltd) of Tasmania, if its bid for
the northern English rayon firm James
Nelson Ltd succeeds.
James Nelson’s Australian subsidiary
recently took up 420,000 ss. STP shares
paid to Is. which were to be fully paid
by January, 1966.
STP shares, listed in Hobart, Mel-
bourne and Sydney, sold recently a few
pence above par.
Courtaulds of the UK called on
Providence to assist in resisting a bid
from ICI in 1962, when ICI was able
to capture 30 p.c. of Courtauld’s capital.
Since then they joined forces to
provide £lom. sterling for English
Sewing Cotton to take over Tootal.
English Sewing later took over the cotton
thread interests of the Australian com-
pany, Astor Consolidated Mills.
ICI and Courtaulds also work in
harmony through their joint ownership
in British Nylon Spinners.
Courtaulds recently made offers for
Bairns wear (children’s woollens), Forster
Clay and Ward (nylon) and Susan Small
(women’s fashions), and its subsidiary
British Celanese bought for ££ million
cash three London clothing firms.
The bid for James Nelson closely
followed ICl’s helping hand to Viyella,
wool and cotton blenders.
Happiness At The Herald
Although the premium has not been
announced yet, “selected” staff
members of the Herald and Weekly
Times are to get their second oppor-
tunity in five years to subscribe to an
exclusive new issue of shares in the
company. The last one was of 600,000
ss. shares at 7s. 6d. in 1958-59. This
one -is for 500,000. The last cash issue
to shareholders was a one-for-three at
par ten years ago, though they also have
not been neglected.
Their long-expected bonus issue is to
be made on a one-for-two basis, which
will involve the capitalisation of
£1,940,607 of assets revaluation and
share premium reserves. It is indicative
of the company’s growth that the
previous bonus issue, also a one-for-two,
made in 1958-59, involved the capitalisa-
tion of only £1,218,120 of the same
reserves.
The year following that issue the
dividend rate was cut from 22i to 20
p.c. but was raised smartly to 27i p.c.
the year after and has been maintained
at that level in each subsequent year,
including, as announced last week, for
the latest year.
This trend was backed by four annual
profit increases which took profits up
from £1,170,699 in 1958-59 to
£1,860,360 in 1960-61, but there was a
drop to £1,727,163 in 1961-62, re-
ducing the cover for the 27i p.c. pay-
ment from 49.1 to 45.1 p.c.
The board has not so far announced
its profit for 1962-63, but going on the
performance of the other newspaper
cum TV groups it seems likely to have
increased perhaps substantially. The
question is whether this year it will rise
sufficiently to hold the 27i p.c. rate on
the capital as increased by the addition
of 8,262,430 new ss. shares from the
proposed bonus and staff issues.
It could well do so, though the board
has given no lead to the market on its
expectations in the matter. Going on
last time, a cut in the rate would be
expected, but it would presumably be
only a small one and would soon be
restored and then bettered.
But, obviously, this is one of the true
growth stocks. Dividend yields really
do not matter when capital benefits are
so soundly assured.
Developer’s Easy Exit
HThe managing director and major
shareholder of US Finance Co. Pty
Ltd and US Constructions Pty Ltd, Mr
J. R. Hall, of Melbourne, has offered to
buy half the share capital of Savoy
Corporation Ltd of Sydney.
Talk of takeover negotiations was
first reported to shareholders late in
September.
Price is ss. 6d. cash per share, com-
pared with this year’s market range from
ss. 9d. to 3s. 4d. and the dizzy heights
of 13s. 6d. in 1960. The offer may
permit Savoy shareholders to sell the
balance of their holdings to Mr Hall.
The Melbourne companies attempted
flotation as US Finance Corporation Ltd
with a public issue of £300,000 in
ordinary shares and £250,000 in un-
secured non-convertible notes.
This issue opened on November 10,
1960, five days before the Common-
wealth Government brought down
measures to curb the activities of land
developers and fringe financiers and gen-
erally to dampen the economy.
Mr Hall, as managing director, based
his report to the brokers for the issue
on “two firm convictions, namely:
• That Australia is facing a con-
tinuing period of development of
great magnitude, and
• That our company will play an
important role in this develop-
ment.”


For every transport requirement
Mercedes-Benz, the world’s oldest automotive
manufacturers, now offer a complete range of
passenger cars, commercial vehicles and engines
for marine and industrial purposes. They are
available from dealers throughout Australia.
MERCEDES-BENZ
1
HH
SSJ
r
r
.V
/
U 4
mm
479/545
MERCEDES-BENZ (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.. MELBOURNE.
The report continued: “Australia to-
day can be likened in some ways to the
United States of some 70 years ago. It
has the same enormous potential which,
when grasped by the American people,
carried their country to unprecedented
prosperity.”
This appears to be the only connection
of the company with the US, which for
some people has magical significance.
However, the financial restrictions
prompted the company to refund all
application moneys.
Savoy has not yet announced its
1962-63 results. No interim dividend
was paid. The willingness of Savoy
directors and major shareholders to
accept Mr Hall’s cash offer suggests that
other shareholders would be wise to do
likewise.
Con soli dating Concrete
HThe lavish production of 1962-63
A annual accounts may succeed in
shoring up weakened investment con-
fidence in Concrete Industries (Monier)
Ltd.
The ss. shares, which tumbled to a
low point of 6s. 6d. when the company
earned 9.2 p.c. on capital and paid only
6i p.c., have made some tentative re-
covery, but are currently quoted at the
still very low figure of Bs. Id.
A pictorial record of the many sub-
sidiary operations supports the text.
Directors name the year’s highlights
as: —
• Entry to the Victorian “hotmix”
asphalt field (with G. H. Reid
(Constructions) Ltd).
• An extra concrete roof tile plant in
SA and a new one in WA.
• Acquisition of a major interest in
Super Centre Development Cor-
poration Ltd which will build over
the Hurstville Railway Centre.
• Purchase of a half-interest in the
Adelaide property owner and de-
veloper, Lordello Investments Ltd.
• Success of a joint venture tender
for the £15.5 million US Navy
Communications Centre in WA.
During 1962-63 a £1 million ex-
pansion programme was undertaken on
the Charbon plant of Standard Portland
Cement.
The year just completed was described
as one of consolidation of existing
activities to combat severe competition.
Insurance Less Profitable
Tn common with several other insur-
ance companies, South British In-
surance reported a fall in earnings for
the year to August 31.
Earning rate decelerated from 28.8 to
26.4 p.c. on capital. Dividend is un-
changed at 17i p.c., the rate established
in 1961-62.
Investment income improved, but this
was more than offset by a fall in under-
writing profit.
The shares of 10s. NZ denomination
recently changed hands at 695. Aus-
tralian on Sydney market, to yield 3.2
p.c.
Pushing Books
HThe ss. shares of bookseller and pub-
“*■ lisher Angus and Robertson Ltd
have crept above their previous 1963
best to sell around 12s. 9d. Here they
yield 5.5 p.c. on the 14 p.c. ordinary
dividend and show earnings yield at
6.2 p.c.
In point of fact the latest 15.9 p.c.
earning rate, though an improvement on
1961-62’s 14.5 p.c., still doesn’t look
a particularly comfortable cover. Profits
are certainly better (up from £110,333
to £140,312 for 1962-63), yet there’s
still a degree of consolidation to accom-
plish after the wild excitement of only a
few years back.
The group now runs 12 bookshops,
“combining some stationery”, in NSW,
ACT, Victoria and Western Australia.


NOW
GIFT-PACKED
FOR CHRISTMAS
BELLS
h
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
OISTIUEO ANO BLENDED
* SCOTLAHO
Fillers Scotland
BELLS
the Celebration Scotch
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd.,
Distillers, Perth, Scotland.
An Independent House
8W8.62N
These furnished a 5 p.c. turnover in-
crease last year. However, “while the
sales increased at each shop (with one
exception) the trading profits were not
uniformly good”.
Publishing, “vigorously promoted”,
gave a considerably better profit and the
two printing subsidiaries “maintained
satisfactory rates of profit”.
The company has received no firm
offers for the projected sale of its historic
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, property.
So this will remain the principal book-
shop, being renovated progressively.
Directors put their invigorating hopes
on a “broad plan which, with reasonable
economic conditions, should lead to
steady improvement in profitability”. It’s
a waiting game.
Shock from Healing
Ostensibly to conserve funds for ex-
pansion, the double-barrelled A. G.
Healing group shocked its shareholders
by reducing its final dividend from 1\
to 4£ p.c., making only 12 p.c. for the
year to June 30 compared with 15 p.c.
in the previous year. This is the first
year since it welded with heavy engineer
Goodwins Ltd. The cut would seem to
put the annual rate at 9 p.c., though in
view of the rise in profit from £520,036
to £574,949, which produced an increase
from 16 to 17.8 p.c. in earnings, that
might be an unjustified assumption.
Doubtless the board means what it
says about conserving funds for expan-
sion but there is also the awful thought
that somewhere along the company’s lines
there are suspicions, or something
stronger, of bad debts as yet not reflected
in the profit performance or the accounts.
The appliance section would be the
strongest candidate for proving this
cynicism correct because as most of the
others in this field have been affected by
the plague of trade defaults on that front
it would be miraculous if A. G Healing,
which is as deep in the business as any,
had not been stung as well.
It could well be that Healings has also
suffered from the inclement weather
which has hit appliances traders gener-
ally in recent months, and that a reduced
prospect for profits on that side also
dictated cautionary distribution steps.
There is no overt reason to believe
that the Sydney side of the gun failed to
go off with its usual bang because it
seems to have had more than enough
work to keep it busy. In June it got a
very nice order worth £2.8 million to
build 40 diesel-electric locos for the
NSW railways. As in the previous year,
one would expect the chairman, Mr
K. G. Healing, to tell the meeting next
month that the heavy engineering
divisions were able to sustain productive
capacity at a healthy level.
A possible qualification on the Sydney
fronts of the group’s activities might
have to be made about the newly ac-
quired subsidiary, Westcott Hazell, which
was taken over in June. The A. G. Heal-
ing men may well have discovered that
the affairs of Westcott Hazell were in
rather worse shape than expected, though
they should have had enough warning
of disarray from the £35,565 trading
loss revealed by Westcott Hazell for the
nine months to last March before the bid
was made and a further loss of £36,000
Westcott directors expected to ensue
from the sale of its freehold in Castle-
reagh Street.
Corneng Dividend Safe
Holdings Ltd, which earned
13.4 p.c. on capital in the year to
June 30 last, expects to be able to
maintain the 10 p.c. dividend rate,
judging by the current order position.
Orders on hand amount to £23 million
in South Africa and £4 million in Aus-
tralia. The South African business is
mainly for the Railways, and the
current level of activity there will be
maintained for at least the next two
years.
The ss. shares at 6s. give the long
yield of 8.3 p.c., which should attract
some attention for income-minded in-
vestors willing to accept the risks attract-
ing to heavy engineers.
Prolonged Caution
T7ederated Industries’ ss. shares, at
6s. Id., still produce a lofty 7.4 p.c.
yield on the 9 p.c. dividend which has
been steadily maintained since 1960.
Marked investment diffidence seems to
have characterised most of the inter-
vening years.
Indeed ruling prices continue near their
1963 low and 7s. 6d. is the best achieved
during 1962 and 1963. Earnings yield
on the basis of the latest result comes out
at 8.3 p.c.
Directors’ remarks on the year ended
June don’t particularly encourage any
decided market movement despite the
nearly stable profit, which fell back only


Who shall
govern
Australia?
PARLIAMENT...
through the members of the Menzies Government. These are
men elected by YOU, and are free to determine policies
according to their judgment and conscience.
OR
THE 36 “FACELESS” MEN?
These “backroom” men operate from outside the Parliament.
They are NOT elected by you. Yet they decide what Labor’s
policies shall be. Labor M.P.’s must obey them.
V'i
REMEMBER THIS PICTURE? Remember the night in March of this
year when Labor 'leader' Calwell waited for hours in the street
to receive his orders on the North-West Cape Naval Communica-
tions Station—orders to "kill" the Bill in the House!
Parliament or Puppets? This is your choice. In a country now growing and
developing at express speed our external and internal security must be in the
hands of known men, proved men—men whom Australia trusts.
YOUR
&
TOD AY
Mj
mv-
Authorised by J. L. Carrick, The Liberal Party of Australia
£3331 to £139,046. It sounds reason-
ably hopeful first to hear that sales and
production showed substantial increases,
some of these deriving from new
products and recently concluded licences.
Then comes a dash of disillusion.
“Costs associated with obtaining business
and in administration rose considerably
during the year, and in addition some
substantial items of expenditure were
incurred in establishing the group’s
business in new areas and in integrating
manufacturing operations.”
Taxation was down from £91,078 to
£82,633, embracing some savings from
the export and investment allowances.
Future advances depend a good deal
on industry’s enlivening capital pro-
grammes. The company looks well pre-
pared, even to the extent of broadening
into advanced electronic techniques,
costly in development but offering a
larger potential.
However, it seems that investors may
remain a little standoffish.
W. J. Centralises
XVI. J. Manufacturing Co. Ltd,
currently making a premium issue,
claims that a considerable part of 1962-
63 expenditure, including that on
developing the new plant, was non-
revenue producing.
Despite this, earnings gave 200 p.c.
cover for the 10 p.c. dividend, and
directors anticipate no difficulty in
maintaining that dividend on the higher
capital.
Expenditure at Brookvale amounted
to £90,277, compared with about
£106,000 since 1955.
The company is centralising opera-
tions at Brookvale, disposing of the
properties in Cremorne and Mosman.
Tax was low in relation to the 1962-63
profit of £55,503 because a subsidiary
earned tax-free profits, an investment
paid a tax-free dividend, and an invest-
ment allowance was obtained on the new
plant.
The company’s manufacturing and
sales divisions cover industrial, frictional
and building materials, chemical pro-
ducts, fibreglass textiles and general
engineering.
Rights to the current issue are going
for ss. 6d with 13s. to pay on December
2. Yield on the 10s. shares purchased at
this price would be 5.4 p.c.
Prelude to a Bonus
"LFow soon to Tooth’s next bonus?
11 Interim dividend has been edged up
from 6f p.c. to 7 p.c., indicating a 14
p.c. rate for the full year to March 31,
1964.
Dividend was 16 p.c. in 1953-54
before the one-for-two bonus which
brought a cut in the rate to 111 p.c.
Annual increases have been made since,
with the exception of a pause in 1961
and 1962.
The 1962-63 profit was a 27 p.c.
improvement on its predecessor, and
was equal to 17.7 p.c. on capital. Light
was also cast on some £2.5 million of
previously hidden reserves. The com-
pany has all the makings for another
generous handout.
Grocers Rampant
TYevices to keep the smaller independent
grocer going were keenly defended
at A. G. Campbell Holdings’ annual
meeting. Explaining the company’s
practice of wholesale self service, the
chairman (Mr A. G. Campbell) asserted
that without this method “many in-
dependent grocers could not have with-
stood the initial onslaught of the chain
stores”.
Such shops can now compete much
more favorably, Mr Campbell believes.
The benefits are actually two-pronged.


Ca
ii/T n> "-v
0
p
«w<wsis*a*
>V,
v /■•
AS
GOOD
AS
THEIR
WORD!
That’s why 1 like doing
business with that firm.
A phone call or two and
the whole thing’s fixed up.
No waiting for letters
to be answered,
no points ‘not quite clear’.
You’re in their office in a few moments
with a trunk call.
For ignoring the trend “some old-
established but conservative wholesalers
are no longer in business”. The notion
of a centralised merchant house covering
a wide area on credit financing has
grown outmoded.
Cash-and-carry is paying off for
Campbell itself, which opened its first
wholesale self service at Brookvale
(NSW) in 1956. Now there are seven.
Net profit for 1962-63 went up from
£45,748 to £53,427, to give earning rate
at 22.3 p.c. Ordinary dividend has been
12} p.c. since 1960, this year taking
£30,426.
Incidentally, a £1578 cash loss and
£8293 book loss was suffered on sale
of surplus Brookvale land, bought in
1958. Accounts generally, though, seem
in fine order. Overdraft has been brought
back from £62,511 to £16,271, but
creditors are £83,341 higher at £269,505.
Debtors remain low and stocks in-
creased moderately.
The 10s. shares around 19s. 9d. yield
6.3 p.c., with earnings yield 11.2 p.c.
Prevailing prices stay close to 1963’s
low points, yet the shares have gone to
235. earlier this year and 265. 6d. in
1962.
Abel Performance
A bel, Lemon Holdings Ltd should
turn out to be a superior float. A
public issue of 400,000 ss. ordinary
shares will be allotted at par.
A 10 p.c. dividend is predicted, and
earning rate for the year ended March
31, 1963, was 19.8 p.c. The average
earning rate over the last ten years was
16.9 p.c. on £350,000, which will be
the paid capital after the public issue.
The company is associated with manu-
facturers and wholesalers, handling Aus-
tralian and imported materials for iron
and steel foundries, food merchants and
manufacturers, tanners, manufacturers
of textiles, perfume, fruit juice and
so on.
The old proprietary company was
formed in 1920. For the 43 subsequent
years, profits were earned through
depression, war and recession, with no
staff retrenchment for economic reasons.
About 750,000 shares will be retained
by the Abel and Lemon families. The
relative smallness of the public issue
should keep the price firm after the
initial market premium is attained.
Expanding Hardware
'C'nergetic advertising and well-sited
extensions to the business in Can-
berra and Mildura have paid off well for
McEwans, the old-established Mel-
bourne hardware group. The previously
reported profit rise from an adjusted
£81,019 to a record £117,204 for 1962-


•<
t.
1
111
: ..
:
1
A real live ANGE
In a wonderful world of tending and caring, our lovely
nurses are indeed real live angels. And every nurse you’ll
ever see always looks fresh,, crisp, and neat as a pin thanks
to Cesarine. Used almost exclusively by every leading Hospital
in Australia, Cesarine is proud of its wonderful record of
service. Hospital uniforms take really hard wear they're
laundered frequently severely. Thanks to Cesarine, they
always look smart, stylish, fresh and crisp. Make Cesarine your
first choice for uniforms.
CAESAR FABRICS LTD.—Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Launceston
[w
SERVING AUSTRALIA UNIFORMLY
' CPB3I
63 looks as if it will be bettered this
term.
The chairman, Mr Tom Luxton, told
the meeting in Melbourne last week that
so far this year sales of the main sub-
sidiary, James McEwan Pty Ltd, operat-
ing in Melbourne and the metropolitan
area (including Dandenong where it holds
a Roots franchise), are 18 p.c. higher
than at the same stage last year, while
in Canberra they have nearly doubled as
a result of new outlets now operating.
Sales at Mildura are up 10 p.c.
The group will have a new store oper-
ating at Moonee Ponds before the end of
the year and is planning two others. In
the shopping centre over 31 acres now
being developed at Croydon, near Mel-
bourne, by a property investment com-
pany, McEwans, which sold the lease
to this company, will take 12,000 square
feet.
With the group building rapidly on
solid foundations, at 18s. 9d. the 10s.
shares look a sound proposition to yield
5.3 p.c. on the 11 times covered 10 p.c.
dividend.
Fielding Slips
T. Fielding and Co. Ltd turned out
" to be another old faithful having to
report a setback in profits.
Intense competition in the printing
and box and carton divisions of Jayfield
Pty Ltd. whittled profit margins. Sales
were held at the expense of profitability.
In fact, a loss was suffered by this sub-
sidiary.
The container business operated by
Fielding's Industries Pty Ltd produced
a lower profit on smaller turnover.
Group profit for the year to September
30 fell away from £363,316 to £315,132
after a lower tax provision. Earning rate
was 24.7 p.c. compared with the
preceding year’s 28.4 p.c.
Reserves were augmented by a £53,837
surplus on sale of a freehold property,
liquidation of the subsidiary Melrose
Pty Ltd, and a £20,745 transfer of excess
depreciation and surplus on sale of sub-
sidiaries’ fixed assets.
The 20s. shares are still weightily
priced around 945., where the yield on
uninterrupted dividend of 17i p.c. is
3.7 p.c.
PGII Concentrates
A process of concentration as opposed
to diversification has been under-
taken by PGH Industries Ltd, maker of
building materials.
The small packaging subsidiary, Lam-
pak Pty Ltd, was disposed of on the
grounds that this was a highly specialised
business.
Investments in companies listed on
stock exchanges were almost all sold
during 1962-63. The company will sell
in the current year some surplus
properties acquired by takeovers.
The chairman’s 1963 address to
shareholders revealed the high degree of
financial planning done by manage-
ment. An expansion programme
balanced against profit-earning capacity
to maintain earning rates is a con-
tinuing problem for management, he
said.
Current plans include the PGH
venture in Malaya (to which PGH will
contribute 40 p.c. of the capital), the
new brick and pipe plant near Adelaide,
and rationalisation of the Queensland
timber industry through integration of
Brown and Broad’s operations with
those of certain Kauri subsidiaries.
Net profit for the opening quarter of
1963-64 was approximately 20 p.c. up
on the previous first quarter. Directors
reported much greater activity in the
building industry, although competition
is still very keen in some sectors.
A quarter is not really long enough


NORTH BROKEN HILL LIFT PRODUCTION
PROGRAMME TO 500,000 TONS A YEAR
Chairman’s confidence in future
Speaking at the annual meeting of North Broken Hill Limited in
Melbourne on Friday, November 1, the Chairman of Directors, Mr. M. L.
Baillieu, said that on present indications market conditions for the metals
derived from the company's concentrates were healthier than they had
been for some time. If prices remained at present levels he was confident
of the ability of the company to earn satisfactorily.
Mr. Baillieu stressed the importance to the company’s present and future
activities of the No. 3 shaft which was in operation. He outlined the substantial
contribution it was making in production as well as in providing a consistently
higher grade of ore than from elsewhere.
Shareholders' Funds
Mr. Baillieu said that North Broken
Hill Limited was formed in 1912 with
a capital of £600,000. Its present issued
capital was £9,100,000 and shareholders’
funds £19,900,000. The company’s assets
comprised an impressive portfolio of in-
vestments and the North Broken Hill
Mine.
Operating Results
Reflecting the operating results of
the mine the “Surplus on Operations”
for the 1963 year was £894,000, com-
pared with £66,000 the previous year.
After comparing the quarterly results
of the year, the Chairman said that the
increase in the operating surplus was
based on two factors. Firstly, the market
price of metals. The average price of
lead had risen from £A61.3.2 a ton in
the September, 1962, quarter to EA79.2.7
average for the September, 1963, quar-
ter; silver averages for these com-
parative quarters had risen from 9/4.2
per ounce to 11/5.8 and the price of
zinc from £A83.18.2 to £A94.10.0.
Secondly, output had increased and
silver content of ore was higher from
No. 3 shaft which was now producing
at a rate of more than 150,000 tons a
year. The contribution No. 3 shaft was
making could be seen by comparing the
output for the first and second quarter
when No. 2 shaft was operating only,
and the fourth quarter when the con-
tribution from No. 3 shaft was 37,800
tons. In the first quarter of the new
year, No. 3 shaft contributed 43,000
tons.
Quarterly Reports
Mr. Baillieu referred to the Com-
pany’s quarterly reports which were
first issued during the 1962/63 year and
said that these now made it possible
for all interested in the Company,
whether they be staff, work force, shai’e-
holders or citizens of Broken Hill, to be
reasonably informed on the affairs of
the Company from time to time.
Quarterly results for the last five
quarters showed indicated gains on
operations, before royalty and taxation,
of
July-Sept., 1962 £55,000
Oct.-Dec., 1962 £202,000
Jan.-March, 1963 £509,000
April-June, 1963 £681,000
July-Sept., 1963 £736,000
These figures do not take into account
changes in stocks or advances against
unsold metals. Owing to the terms of
sale for North’s concentrates and be-
cause of the time taken for their treat-
ment and the realisation of the con-
tained metals, Metals Sold and Sales
Receipts given in quarterly reports are
referable to Mine Production of the
preceding quarter or quarters.
Mining Operations
In the year under review 425,917 tons
of ore were mined from the North
Section which now comprised the whole
area of North Broken Hill’s mining
operation.
That output was the highest ever
achieved from the North Section, and
grade at 15.22% Pb, 7.96% Ag, and
12.62% Zn was the highest obtained
since 1946.
It was considered that an ore grade
of 15% lead would be maintained in the
foreseeable future because of the in-
creasing tonnage becoming available
from the new levels when drilling had
indicated a better average grade of ore
than on the levels which provided most
of the output over the past 15 years.
Mr. Baillieu said that the average
output of North contract stoping miners
for the year rose to 13.53 tons a man
shift which W'as the best figure so far
achieved in the history of the Company.
The concentrates mill treated 421,040
tons of ore.
Ore Reserves Future Development
Ore reserves at June 30 were 4,126,000
tons, an increase of 91,000 tons above
the previous year.
Ore reserves in the North Section
had remained relatively stable since
1959 although increasing tonnage had
been mined. In this regard it should be
pointed out that since 1957 no ore below
the No. 26 level (3,520 feet) had been
added to reserves. Over those years
development was limited because of the
sinking of the No. 3 shaft. No. 3 shaft
had been completed to the No. 31 level
(4,270 feet). The development of the
area which includes the four levels,
number 27 (3,670 feet) to 30 (4,120 feet)
has begun and it was planned to com-
plete this programme by Christmas,
1965, with a view to production from
the area being started by the middle of
1966.
Significant 1 Programme
The programme was most significant
to the future of the Mine: firstly, it wdll
enable the present rate of production
to be maintained after 1966 by the
addition to our ore reserves of ore de-
veloped on the new' levels, and, secondly,
as the main drive on the No. 30 level
(4,120 feet) progresses, suitable sites
will become available which will permit
the delineation of the orebodies below'
by diamond drilling. The proposed drill-
ing will serve not only to prove the
nature and extent of the orebodies
below the No. 30 level, but also to pro-
vide advance information to ensure the
design of the most suitable layouts for
their development.
{Continued on next page )


The Company planned to produce
500,000 tons of ore a year. Mr. Baillieu
stressed the importance directors paid
to a continuous study of cost structures.
The fact that although today’s mar-
ket prices would have been considered
very low 10 years ago, they were reason-
ably remunerative today because the
company had available at No. 3 shaft
a very well equipped mine, a very rich
ore body, and an experienced work
force and staff able to make good use
of it.
Mr. Baillieu added that all lead pro-
duction for 1963 by B.H.A.S. could be
regarded as sold, and it appeared there
will be no difficulty in disposing of the
lead output of B.H.A.S. for 1964. An-
other arrangement recently had been
concluded under which the whole of
North’s output of zinc concentrates for
the year ending December, 1964, will
be sold to the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of
Australasia Ltd.
Investments Return £639,000
Turning to investments, Mr. Baillieu
said that net income from this source
was £639,000 compared with £536,000
the previous year, the increase resulting
from higher dividends from a number
of companies and interest received on
additional surplus funds the company
had available from time to time.
Investments in companies dealt with
on the Stock Exchange stood at
£5,215,000 in the company’s accounts
but on today’s value were £5,684,000.
B.H.A.S.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters
Pty. Ltd. remained the company’s most
important investment outside invest-
ments in listed companies. B.H.A.S. had
a satisfactory year and the current dis-
tribution rate was 12%, which meant
a £234,000 dividend to North Broken
Hill.
Metal Manufactures
The next most important investment
was 1,648,000 shares in Metal Manu-
factures Limited whose dividend of
7£% resulted in income of £123,583.
That company has since declared a
dividend of 10% which will be reflected
in the income for the current year.
E. R. & S. Co.
Referring to the Electrolytic Refining
& Smelting Company of Australia Pty.
Ltd. which was not paying a dividend
owing to Japanese competition for con-
centrates and scrap, its operations were
hardly remunerative. Mr. Baillieu said
that the decision to treat concentrates
from the C.S.A. Mine at Cobar when
they became available should greatly
improve the fortune of the E. R. & S.
Company.
C.A.C.
Mr. Baillieu said that the Common-
wealth Aircraft Corporation in which
the company had 262,500 shares had
an important part to play in the
‘Mirage’ Jet fighter project.
Alcoa
Alcoa of Australia Pty. Limited in
which the company had a substantial
investment had continued its construc-
tion programme to schedule.
The Pt. Henry plant smelter would
reach its planned 40,000-ton level pro-
duction capacity before the end of
1963.
The Alumina Refinery at Kwinana,
W.A., would be completed within the
next few weeks and would begin to
supply alumina for Pt. Henry opera-
tions early in 1964.
The extrusion plant at Pt. Henry
would be completed in December, and
sheet rolling facilities begin production
the second half of 1964.
Alcoa’s marketing programme ap-
peared to be meeting with success in all
market areas. Considerable opportuni-
ties existed to broaden the use of
aluminium and the prospect was par-
ticularly encouraging in the building
field.
Rail Transport Charges Excessive
Mr. Baillieu said that despite a re-
duction in the freight rates payable by
the Broken Hill Mining companies
from Cockburn to Port Pirie, the present
rates were extremely high by any
reasonable standard and constituted
a discriminatory levy by the S.A. Rail-
ways on the Broken Hill Industry of
some £900,000 a year over and above a
reasonably profitable charge for the
service performed.
Federal Government and Taxation
The Chairman referred to the refusal
of successive Federal Governments to
bring lead and zinc producers under
the scale of tax reduction offered to all
other non-ferrous producers. He quoted
the tax allowance permitted by U.S.A.
and Canadian Governments to lead and
zinc producers. Mines ran out of ore
and could not be found to order. Since
1945 Australian lead-silver-zinc mining
companies had spent more than £8
million searching for new mineral de-
posits (other than bauxite, oil and iron
ore) and the Mt. Isa orebodies con-
stitute the only economic lead-zinc
discovery this century.
In principle the lead-zinc mining in-
dustry should receive the same fiscal
encouragement accorded to all other
non - ferrous mining industries on
economic grounds in order to ensure
the continuance of large and complex
industries dependent on lead and zinc
mining and, to underpin the medium
and long term interest of Australia,
such was both desirable and justifiable.
The refusal of successive government
to bring lead and zinc under the opera-
tion of clause 23A of the Income Tax
Assessment Act could only be regarded
as a measure of political discrimination.
to judge trends for a company catering
for the variable building industry, so
this 20 p.c. improvement should be
accepted with that reservation.
The shares have moved up Is. 6d.
to 20s. (yield 4.2 p.c.) in about 10 weeks.
They should not be passed up lightly.
Tightly Held
Jnfrequently traded Lords Holding
10s. shares, which are mostly tightly
held by the Hutchinson family, present a
solid face on Melbourne ’Change. This
Flemington hardware and builders’
supplies merchant lifted profits handily
from £39,287 to a best ever £49,896 last
year and paid its usual 15 p.c. dividend
and now reports a further increase in
turnover for the first four months this
year. Priced around 295. 3d., the yield
is a useful 5.2 p.c.
Stock Excuses
A USTRALIAN BEEF CATTLE DEVELOP-
MENT Co. Ltd has proved an un-
rewarding share investment.
A change in the method of stock
valuation contributed to a net loss on
trading for the year to June 30, 1963,
of £96,481. (Profits were earned in the
two previous years, but no dividend
paid.)
Livestock was previously in the books
at valuation “average of stock pur-
chased at cost and natural increase
at company’s valuation”. Directors re-
ported in the latest preliminary state-
ment that natural increase was valued
in the past at standard values, having
regard to market values. Now the
natural increase is being valued
nominally at £1 a head.
Livestock thus appears in the 1963
balance sheet at £148,947, compared
with present market value of at least
£200,000.
There were, therefore, other factors
contributing to the loss. Directors ex-
plained that the value of Santa Gertrudis
crossbred progeny had declined some-
what.
Better Harvest?
canned and frozen food
maker Harvest Foods has been
having a lean time these last two years
but now prospects are improved, accord-
ing to the chairman, Mr A. W. Glenning,
at the meeting last week. In 1961-62
profit eased from £30.150 to £17,855,
then last year there was a big loss of
£47,799. Now the chairman says the
company is about breaking even.


CHAIRMAN REVIEWS UPWARD TREND IN BROKEN HILL SOUTH REVENUE
Assurance to Shareholders on investment income
Speaking at the Annual Meeting of Broken Hill South Limited, the
Chairman of Directors, Mr. Lindesay Clark, stated that although the
company had realised holdings in listed securities in companies unrelated
to the activities of the company, to raise funds for its commitments in
Cobar and Alcoa, higher dividends declared in the current year by Metal
Manufactures Ltd. and Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.,
indicated that total dividend and interest income from remaining invest-
ments for the 1964 financial year would closely approach that received
in 1963.
Net Profit
The net profit of the Company had
increased to £943,000, as compared with
£567,000 in 1962. The significant contri-
butions to this increase came from
mining operations at Broken Hill and
revenue received from dividends and
interest.
Working Account Surplus
The Working Account Surplus in-
creased by £396,000 to £739,000. While
average prices received for lead and
zinc were lower, the value of increased
ore production and the increased
revenue received due to the higher silver
price, resulted in an increase of £383,000
in total mining revenue. Mine ex-
penditure was down £82,000.
Profit and Loss Account
In the Profit and Loss Account, divi-
dends and interest received increased
by £68,000. On the debit side amortisa-
tion of Mining Leases for a full year
took £56,000, and a provision of
£56,000 was made for Income Tax
Equalisation.
Expenditure on outside mining
properties was lower at £142,000.
Dividend
Since the end of the Financial Year
dividend No. 116 of five pence per stock
unit had been declared payable on 29th
November, 1963, which will require the
sum of £343,000.
Stockholders 1 Funds
There was an increase in stockholders’
funds of £1,308,000 resulting mainly
from amounts received in calls and share
premiums on the company’s contribu-
ting shares and an increase in the Profit
and Loss Appropriation Account balance
which now stood at £1,320,000 after
providing for dividend No. 116 and the
transfer of £lOB,OOO to General Reserve.
Assets in Balance Sheet
Mr. Clark said that on the Assets side
of the Balance Sheet there were two
items which had substantially in-
creased, namely Mine Development
account by £322,000 and Current Assets
by £795.000. The current market value
of listed investments held at the present
date amounted to £3,295,000 against a
book figure of £2,520,000.
Call on Share Capital
A call of 2/3 per share (1/6 capital
and 9d. premium) had been made pay-
able in January, 1963, on the 8 million
contributing shares of 5/- each issued
in 1961 at 7/6 per share. In all £913,000
was received during the year.
Finance for Major Projects
Portion of the finance required for
the aluminium and copper projects in
progress was being provided from in-
ternal sources.
Realisation of the Company’s hold-
ings in listed securities having activities
unrelated to those of the Company had
been commenced during the year and
had been completed since the close of
the financial year. The total proceeds
received were £2,506,000. Common-
Loans of £392,000 were also
realised this year.
Calls Paid by Company
During the year calls of 7/- per share
were paid to Alcoa of Australia on the
3,663,889 contributing shares held, re-
quiring £1,282,000 and making the Alcoa
shares paid to 9/- per share. Since
June 30 a further 3/6 per share had
been paid requiring £641,000.
In Cobar Mines Pty. Ltd., the com-
pany took up a further 1,045,120 shares
of £1 each which were fully paid up at
30th June, 1963.
Finance for 1964 Commitments
After meeting commitments to Alcoa
and Cobar Mines and providing finance
required for the capital works at the
Browne Shaft section at Broken Hill,
funds held against future requirements
for aluminium and copper projects were
invested in short dated term deposits.
The Balance Sheet item deposits and
loans £1,583,000 reflected the place-
ment of these funds.
The most recent estimates of the
company’s total commitments in the
year to the 30th June, 1964, to Alcoa
and Cobar amounted to £3,500,000.
The funds currently placed on deposit,
and the further amounts which have
been received from the sales of listed
securities since July 1, together with
the call of 1/6 per share made recently
on the company’s contributing shares,
and a final call of 1/6 to be made early
in 1964, would meet the major portion
of these commitments to June 30th,
1964.
The provision of funds for the com-
bined requirements of Alcoa and Cobar
mines subsequent to June, 1964, would
be reviewed prior to June, 1964.
Ore Production at Broken Hill
Mr Clark said that ore production at
Broken Hill rose by 13% over the
previous year but was below expectation
largely because of delays in com-
pletion of the haulage drive connecting
the Browne Shaft section with No. 7
shaft. Increase in production had
brought about a lower cost per ton,
£7.9.0 compared with £7.18.8 the
previous year. These figures included
the cost of development expenditures
which had been capitalised in the
accounts.
The haulage drive on the 1,480 ft. level
had come into full operation on July 1,
1963.
Despite an increase in the ore reserves
at the Browne Shaft section brought
about by development during the year,
the overall mine reserves declined by
100,000 tons to 1,270,000 tons including
the small tonnage located in the Barrier
Central Pty. Ltd. leases.
Pressure to increase production had
lessened with the increase in metal
prices and it is believed to be more
economical to continue at an output
rate slightly in excess of 300,000 tons
per annum.
Exploration
Mr Clark outlined the company’s
exploration activities during the year
which included geophysical work in the
Broken Hill district and drilling on a
number of anomalies some fifty miles
south-west of Broken Hill.
Exploration outside Broken Hill and
Cobar districts had been considerably
expanded.
The work in which Broken Hill South
has a 51% interest is being carried out
by Mines Exploration Pty. Ltd. McPhar
Geophysics Ltd. of Canada has a 10%
interest and North Broken Limited and
Electrolytic Zinc Company of Aus-
tralasia Limited each has a 191%
interest.
In the Kanmantoo district of South
Australia, some 30 miles south-east of
Adelaide, the source of the extensive
geophysical anomaly has been shown
to be a bed containing copper mineral-
isation. Four diamond drill holes so far
completed indicate a copper lode with
encouraging values and of variable
width up to some 400 feet. The rate of
testing is being increased.
In Queensland the first of a series of
diamond drill holes in the Chillagoe
area had intersected iron sulphides only,
but more recent tests in the area had
shown geochemical anomalies of copper,
lead and zinc above other geophysical
anomalies, and drilling will shortly
begin on these positions.
Prospecting is also proceeding in
the Mt. Perry and Charters Towers
areas.
In New South Wales initial geo-
physical coverage had been completed
on areas near Barraba, Peelwood, West
Wyalong and Ardlethan. Of these all
but the last named contain anomalies.
Broken Hill South hold a 30% interest
in exploration being carried out in
the Moonta-Kadina area by Western
Mining Corporation which reports that
several geophysical anomalies have
been located.
Mr. Clark referred to the great ad-
vance made in location of sulphide ore-
bodies by geophysical techniques, there-
by confining diamond drilling to
sulphide mineralisation, even though
only a small proportion of such ore-
bodies is likely to be of economic value.
Mr. Clark said that Broken Hill South
could hope to be fortunate and find
new mines among the numerus anoma-
lies located and the Directors felt that
the longer term future of the company’s


mining operations in Broken Hill and
elsewhere depended on persisting with
these methods.
Progress at Cobar
Mr. Clark said the development of
the CSA mine at Cobar provides for
the concurrent sinking of two adjacent
shafts close to the south end of the ore-
bodies.
No. 1 Shaft, which is 14 feet in
diameter, has been sunk to 1,303 feet,
and the initial opening for development
at the 1,200 ft. level has begun. When
the mine comes into production, No. 1
Shaft will become the up-cast airway.
No. 2 Shaft, which is 18 feet in
diameter, will be the main haulage
shaft and has now reached a depth of
1,444 feet. It will be continued to 2,100
feet which will provide some 300 feet
height available for shaft, bins and ore-
loading installations below the 1,800 ft.
level. The level at 1,800 feet will be the
main haulage level of the mine to that
depth, to which all ore won above the
level will gravitate. It is expected that
platt development will be completed in
time to begin development on the
1,800 ft. level by June, 1964.
Inclines will be driven downwards
from the 1,200 ft. level commencing
later this year, and upwards from the
1,800 ft. level. The inclines will meet
at the 1,500 ft. level and will provide
access to the stopes from the 1,200 ft.
to the 1,800 ft. levels. Neither the east
nor west orebodies reaches the surface.
The drilling from the surface indicates
that the west orebody may be mined
up to approximately the 600 ft. level,
but the east orebody may not be mined
much above the 800 ft. level.
The orebodies will be mined by the
cut and fill method. Large diesel-driven
transporters of a type in successful use
overseas, will be used to carry ore from
the face, and through a system of cross-
cuts and incline, to deliver it to the
main ore pass. Ore will gravitate to the
1,800 ft. level to be crushed there and
delivered to the surface.
A Pilot Mill has been installed to treat
ore won early next year from the cross-
cuts driven from the inclines.
Major items of mine and mill equip-
ment have been ordered, tenders
awarded, and erection of workshops
and warehouse, change house, mine
office and preparation of mill site, had
commenced. The N.S.W. Department
of Railways had made good progress in
the rehabilitation of the Cobar to CSA
mine railway. The Electricity Com-
mission of N.S.W. was designing and
surveying a power line from Dubbo;
the Public Works Department of
N.S.W. was designing the pipeline from
Nyngan to Cobar for the supply of
water.
Alcoa
Mr. Clark referred to the excellent
progress being made by Alcoa of Aus-
tralia. He said that the entry of this
Company into the field of metal pro-
ducers coincided with the rising world
demand for aluminium. Domestic
capacity for production would be ap-
proximately 92,000 tons. The consump-
tion this year was estimated to be
55,000 tons and to rise rapidly. Within
a very few years Australian consump-
tion would be able to absorb the whole
of the present output. Alcoa had long
term contracts for the sale overseas of
alumina, and also expected to enter
the export market for aluminium ingot,
and some sales had already been made.
Metal Prices
Mr. Clark said that lead prices de-
clined during the year from £72.8.8 to
£66.1.1 per ton, and for zinc from
£90.3.2 to £86.16.8. The average price of
silver improved from 8/6 to 10/7 per
ounce. Average prices of lead, zinc and
silver are running at a higher level in
the new financial year, lead price being
£79.3.11 per ton, Zinc £94.10.0 per ton
and silver 11/5 per ounce.
Sales of lead by B.H.A.S. totalled
215,000 tons of which 82.5% comprised
export sales.
Practically the whole of the B.H.A.S.
production of refined silver was
absorbed in Australia, the small re-
mainder going to New Zealand. Aus-
tralian sales were in excess of 6,900,000
ounces of which 76.2% was delivered
to the Commonwealth Treasury.
During the second quarter of 1963
the world lead market finally emerged
from the period of excess production
capacity which had existed from 1957,
and supply and demand presently
appeared in balance.
Zinc had also emerged from a period
of excess production capacity in 1960.
Free World new mine production of
silver falls far short of consumption
and higher prices are being maintained.
With the development of the mine
at Cobar copper trends are of interest
to Broken Hill South. Free World con-
sumption of copper has been rising at
a long term rate in excess of 125,000
tons per annum and this year copper
world consumption trend has recovered
from the setback of 1962.
It was believed that the future of
copper would fully justify the search
for and development of new copper
properties.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Thanks for a Birthday Gift
T notched another year away on
November 14. Little did I realise
that Gibson and Howes would honor my
birthday by announcing a one-for-three
bonus issue and an increase in the
interim dividend to 6 p.c. I can only
humbly thank them for such a presenta-
tion.
Both political parties are making home
building one of the prime issues of the
elections. The implication is that this
is a field that urgently needs government
promotion. Mr Holt went overboard a
little by saying that Australia has had
the best housing record in the free world.
Statements to the other extreme have
been made by the other party.
No matter who wins, home building
will thrive in 1964. And so will domestic
appliances. This explains my return to
Malleys. Anyone seeking a recovery
stock should stop right here.
The most significant happening in the
year just past was the issue of 209,000
shares at a premium of 6s. sd. to the
Whirlpool Corporation of USA.
For some time the 20s. shares have
been steady around 275. My 400 cost
275. 3d.
My other purchase for the week was
Steamships Trading, a company which
has extensive interests in New Guinea
(including a cordial factory at Port
Moresby). It shrugged off a takeover
by W. R. Carpenter in 1962 and became
the aggressor by taking over Colyer
Watson. I bought 1000 at 4s. 3d.
On the credit side of the account this
week appears the 1000 Tasman Dry
Cleaners I shorted at lOd. The share of
a company of this standing expecting a
substantial loss should not be more than
half its par value, which is 6d. Relow
this item was the sale of 1000 Project
Development and 600 Clyde Industries,
both leaving the portfolio with their
tails between their legs. Losses were £23
and £4B respectively.
Transactions for this week were:
SOLD
1000 Tasman Dry Cleaners, lOd. £39
1000 Project Development, 9/1 .. £443
600 Clyde, 9/11 £291
BOUGHT
400 Malleys, 27/3 £555
1000 Steamship, rights, 4/3 £222
This week I had to meet the £lOO call
on Mid-Eastern and the £250 application
money on Mobile Equipment. The final
debit balance of £446 was after deduct-
ing my £94 dividend due from Elanimex.
It is by far the largest single dividend
I have ever received.
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
3000 Hanimex (ex div.) 23/5/62 11/- 14/
400 Paynter & Dixon 31/7/63 18/6 22/-
1000 Aeron 14/8/63 7/9 7/6
500 Elders GM 12/9/63 22/- 25/-
400 ISAS 24/9/63 18/- 18/6
400 Gibson & Howes 2/10/63 76/- 82/-
200 CSR 10/10/63 71/- 75/-
400 BH Sth ctg. 15/10/63 11/6 11/9
400 Larke 17/10/63 11/- 11/3
500 Holyman Woods 23/10/63 9/6 9/-
2000 Mid Eastern 24/10/63 2/6 2/9
2000 ODE 29/10/63 5/6 5/9
2000 W.J. Manu., rts 30/10/63 5/- 5/6
1000 Mobile Equip. 30/10/63 8/4 8/8
400 Tableland Tin 5/11/63 20/- 21/
1000 Steamship, rts 11/11/63 4/3 4/6
400 Malleys 12/11/63 27/3 27/3
1000 Tasman (short) 14/11/63 lOd. lOd.


SECURITY ANALYSIS
Why Have ACI Shares Dropped?
By “ANALYST”
weeks ago, I wrote about Drug
Houses of Australia whose shares
had declined markedly in price. Only
two members of Drug Houses’ board have
other directorships of listed public com-
panies, namely Mr J. A. Forrest and Mr
J. F. T. Grimwade, and both these gentle-
men are on the board of Australian Con-
solidated Industries. Apart from the com-
mon directorships, the marking down of
the share price has been common to both
companies although the decline has not
been as dramatic in the case of ACI.
At the time of writing ACI shares are
selling at 60s. and this is virtually the
low point for 1963. At the beginning of
the year they were selling at prices 10s.
higher. Certainly even at 60s. the im-
mediate dividend yield is only 2.8 p.c. and
the earnings yield only 5.6 p.c. In other
words, the present dividend rate of Is. Bd.
per share is covered twice by the 1962/63
earnings.
It may well be that the shares are fully
priced at 60s. in view of these yields and
that the market is only reacting against
“over-high” prices. Nevertheless, it is
strange that this reaction should occur
when interest rates have fallen and still
seem to be subject to downward pres-
sures.
It is quite interesting to note that over
the last ten years per share dividends,
after adjustment for two cash and two
bonus issues, have increased at the
average annual compound rate of 5 p.c
This increase has been greatest in recent
years as the rate has exceeded 7 p.c. per
annum over the last five years.
/”|ne must admit that per share earnings
adjusted in the same manner do not
show a steady increase to match the in-
crease in per share dividends. In fact,
there has been no increase over the last
five years and the annual rate of increase
would probably be not better than 2i p.c.
over the last ten years. Nevertheless the
excellent cover means that without any
increase in 1962/63 earnings and provid-
ed there is no increase in capital, divi-
dends per share could continue to in-
crease at the rate of 7 p.c. per annum
compound for the next ten years before
earnings are insufficient to cover divi-
dends.
Developments over the last few years
would suggest that ACI is more dependent
today on the future of building activity
and therefore less dependent on contain-
ers for food and drink. Naturally enough
ACl’s public relations activities are di-
rected towards the consumer and
“good things come in glass” is certainly
the basis of the company’s image.
At the time when the new plant of
Australian Window Glass was opened at
Dandenong in October, 1962, it was
pointed out that this plant, together with
the company’s other plant at Alexandria,
NSW, would be sufficient to meet Aus-
tralia’s total requirements of flat glass.
This would mean the replacement of im-
ports valued between £24 million and
£3 million. While it is difficult to make
any firm predictions regarding the future
because of the changing trends in archi-
tecture, it seems likely that future de-
mand for window glass will grow at least
at the same rate as the demand for new
buildings.
Figures suggest that this growth in
real terms should be at a rate not less
than 4 p.c. per annum and could be sub-
stantially in excess of this. Building acti-
vity has such strong influence on the
national income that any stimulation
needed to produce higher rates of growth
could well be applied by stimulating the
rate of growth in building activity.
A part from flat glass there are several
other sections of the ACI group which
should benefit from greater building
activity, namely Crown lighting-ware,
Laminex panels, Garnite plastic-ware,
fibre glass insulation and a recent venture,
“Gerflex” tiles and sheet. Buildings other
than houses would also require facilities
provided by the engineering division, and
it is quite interesting to note that under
this heading in the annual report of 1963
is listed “Complete X-Ray Service to the
Building Industry.” The engineering divi-
sion also produces fabricated steelwork,
ba_sins, showers and baths as well as mar-
keting aluminium glazing bars and sec-
tions. Finally as a result of a merger with
a subsidiary of Email, ACI also supplies
“Coramic” glazed wall tiles, bathroom
fittings and accessories.
With a view to looking at the past, the
following ratios are submitted: —
Year to
June 30 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Net profit
before tax
depreciation
and interest
as percentage
of total
capital 28.2 32.1 34.8 31.9 31.2 25.8 24.0
Net profit
after tax
as percentage
of shareholders'
funds 10.3 11.4 14.7 13.2 12.2 8.9- 9.4
Investment
income
as percentage
of investments 8.8 8.3 10.5 8.5 9.0 15.1 10.6
These figures cover a period of seven
years of which probably the last two could
be regarded as recession years since the
group’s year really finishes on March
31. The return from “Investments” is
rather erratic and there would seem to be
an abnormal amount included in the in-
come for the 1961/62 year. Even so the
rate of return from “Investments” appears
to exceed the rate of return on funds
invested in the major activities of the
group.
But the most disturbing trend is the
steady downward drift in profitability
over the seven-year period.
A ll these figures have been calculated
after eliminating the revaluation of as-
sets made in 1961/ 62. The actual ratio of
net profit before taxation, depreciation
and interest in 1962/63 was 21.6 p.c. in-
stead of 24 p.c. and net profit after tax as
a percentage of shareholders’ funds was
8.4 p.c. instead of 9.4 p.c. But trends are
important rather than absolute amounts.
It is perhaps also worth mentioning that
provisions for “Fluctuations in Stock
Values” and “Increased Cost of Replace-
ment of Fixed Assets” have been added
back to profits in making the compu-
tations.
From the figures the conclusion is
reached that the market is correct in
marking down the shares of ACI. Never-
theless, the investor who purchased the
shares in August, 1960 (that is, near the
peak of the boom), has seen a return
from dividends and capital appreciation
of nearly 8 p.c. per annum over the last
three years. But even at that time the im-
mediate dividend yield was just over
3 p.c. as compared with the present-day
immediate dividend yield of just under
2.8 p.c. The shares would need to fall to
555. before they are on the same yield as
in August, 1960, and this might be a fair
bench mark for investors.
BALANCE SHEET AND PROFIT STATEMENT
summar:es (£'ooo)
Year to June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 17751 19854 22007 22749 24377
Current
liabilities 9342 11068 13604 12798 12072
Working capital 8409 8786 8403 9951 12305
Fixed assets 15015 18057 22363 31487 36046
Investments 4570 5214 4453 4362 5575
Intangibles 49 128 938 1077 407
Total capital 23043 32185 36157 46877 54333
Represented by:
Loan capital 523 511 527 576 1187
Minority
interests 263 513 466 1165 3002
Pref. capital 175 175 175 175 175
Ord. capita l 9753 12232 12648 20935 22839
Reserves 17329 18754 22341 24026 27130
Depreciation 1792 1887 2079 2558 2959
Tax provided 2502 2565 3094 2816 2672
"Provisions" (a) 1045 1035 1040 1126 1135
Published earn. 2174 2321 2629 2276 2679
Ord. dividends 1219 1518 1583 1665 1903
Surplus 955 803 1046 611 776
Earnings per share
(pence) (b) 41.0 37.9 42.0 40.5 40.0
Div. per share
(pence) (b) 15.6 17.0 18.4 20.0 20.0
Earnings yield
p.c. (c) 7.8 6.6 5.4 5.1 5.4
Dividend yield
p.c. (c) 3.0 3.0 2.3 2.8 2.7
(a) For stock fluctuations. Plant replacement, etc.
(b) Adjusted for cash and bonus issues
(c) Based on last sale in months accounts presented.


r
V 'X-x
1
■ i
m
V;..
||k
t, / .T'WMBBHBHk, -111;:
-
' *■: , -
■
fe
fife* » WmSm>
A
....... *
; .;. •
H
- • : ' ’ ; :
m
:
• : i:k
■»,
. •:.•
■'
■ ■•; •• ;. X
/ '' tf'ZM
w? 6 r - <t%
: -;* f X:..V
- w %
x ' x ' iPIII
•,V. :
' :
11
x..-: .
; ; : .
\ -
M
with over 800,000 fans ...
Quint's his name—Quint McHale, and every Sunday night at about 7.30 well
over three-quarters of a million Sydney people sit down to laugh at him and
the strange crew of "cut throats" who sail with him. That's a lot of people—
even for TCN 9, First in Australia.
PEOPLE ARE SOLD ON
Studio & Transmitter: Artarmon Rd., Willoughby. 43-0444.
Sales: Sydney— Ist Floor, Cricket House, George St. 27-2881. Melbourne— 247 Collins St. 63-8336
TCN
Za


LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
LANCE GRAHAM
Member o 1 the Sydney Stock Exchange
56 HUNTER STREET
SYDNEY
Telephone: 28-5721
Telegrams: Lagram, Sydney
ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Old, J. A. Minnett. M. A. Gleeson
White. lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger,
J. D. Wolfensohn.
Members ol the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft, R. V
Betts, D. A. Livingstone.
13-15 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: 25-5711. 25-6011. Telex 5243. 20243
Branches at
150 Queen Street, Melbourne.
359-369 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Cables and Telegrams:
Orderley: Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane.
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members o) Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761
<4 lines)
P.O. BOX
No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
No Rest for Sleigh in Oil
npHE theme of the annual report from
directors of H. C. Sleigh Ltd
sounds very much like the Ampol story:
there has been a natural delay in
reaching profitability on major invest-
ment projects.
Sleigh details the. construction of the
lubricating oil refinery (a joint effort
with Ampol and Caltex), the relocation
of the Hardie Rubber general products
and foam rubber and plastic products at
Auburn (NSW), and the purchase of
vessels Francis Drake and George Anson
for the Japan run as the major items of
expenditure.
In fact, the gross addition to the
group's fixed assets was over £5 million
—£2 million in freehold properties,
about £250,000 in lease improvements
and premiums, £1.5 million in plant and
equipment and £1.2 million in ocean
vessels.
Depreciation written off for the year
totalled £1,345,017 (£1,317,617 the
previous year).
The net addition to fixed assets after
sales which produced a capital loss of
£16,289, was about £4£ million.
This was partly accounted for by the
Kangaroo Petroleum takeover in July,
1962, consideration for which was
£1,335,000 mainly satisfied by the issue
of almost £750,000 in ordinary shares
at 7s. 6d. premium. Share premium
reserve was augmented by almost
£750,000.
After balance date Rubbertex In-
dustries Ltd was acquired at a cost of
about £500,000. Rubbertex has a
modern factory at Sunshine (Vic.) which
produces industrial rubber goods.
Result of the group’s trading for the
year was a slight increase in net profit
from £1,830,660 to £1,846,904 after
providing £1,010,476 (£1,016,239 in
1961-62) for tax.
Sales of all divisions increased from
£39,500,000 to £43,701,000, and of
petroleum products from 170,487,000
gallons to 187,289,000. The chairman
and managing director (Mr H. M.
Sleigh) at the annual meeting spoke of
intense competition in both the
petroleum and rubber industries.
Referring to the Attorney-General’s
proposed legislation on restrictive trade
practices, Mr Sleigh said such legisla-
tion would lead to unbridled price
cutting and disrupt trade, particularly
amongst retailers.
Sleigh has a 10 p.c. interest in the
Associated Group, which found oil near
Roma and made natural gas discoveries.
Through Sleigh Exploration NL the
group spent £200,000 in the search for
oil during 1962-63.
The lubricating oil refinery will be on
stream early in 1964. Sleigh’s direct
investment in this £l3 million project is
£1,437,500, of which £BOO,OOO was
contributed during the past year.
The chain of Golden Fleece service
stations now numbers about 1900, and
country agents 1200.
Hardie Rubber sales were a record
£11.3 million. The tyre plants at
Auburn (NSW) and Yeronga (Q’ld) were
extended during the year. A tyre factory
will be constructed in Perth at an initial
cost of £500,000 to produce early in
1964. A further £500,000 could be spent
within two years. Hardie has been
granted exclusive preference to supply
Government departments and instru-
mentalities with tyres and tubes for three
years.
Export sales rose 36 p.c. to a record
£5,870,000.
Profit for 1962-63 represented 15.5
p.c. on capital, compared with 16.5 p.c.
the year before. The usual dividend of
121 p.c. was paid.
The group's development was financed
from the retained earnings, from fixed
deposits, and from another annual
instalment of £400,000 on the 2,000,000
deferred “B” shares.
Each January, £400,000 is payable by
overseas suppliers (presumed to be
Caltex) on the deferred “B” shares
which will be fully paid by 1967, when
they convert to ordinary “B” shares,
non - participating in dividends until
1971-72, but otherwise ranking equally
with ordinary shares.
After July 1, 1971, they rank for a
maximum dividend of 71 p.c. or they
may be converted to ordinary shares by
payment of 4s. 3d. premium, or the
difference between the market value of
the ordinary shares and 6s. 3d., which-
ever is the lesser.
The deferred “A” shares were issued
in 1955-56 also to overseas trade
associates, and entitle the holders (as for
“B” deferreds) to 1 /sth p.c. dividend
for every 1 p.c. in excess of 15 p.c.
paid on ordinary shares. The “A”s carry
no voting rights but the “B”s do. Thus
a takeover from any source than the
holder of the “B”s would be nigh
impossible.
Issued ordinary capital will be in-
creased on June 30, 1965, by the con-
version of £1,225,644 71 p.c. notes, and
on June 30, 1968, by the conversion of
£1,825,000 61 p.c. notes.
Amongst unsecured creditors are
£1,727,100 fixed term and call deposits,
which are repayable within the next 12
months. The company intends to obtain


ACCOUNTS
SUMMARY {£'000)
June 30
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
Current assets
4930
9895
10393
10814
12865
Less current
liabilities
5911
10176
10077
9499
13800
Working capiltal -981
-281
316
1315
’-935
Investments
247
3
25
813
1236
Deferred assets
381
804
658
688
1482
Fixed assets
12787
21146
26124
27203
31478
Intangibles
336
1068
1452
• 1595
2141
12770
22740
28575
31614
35402
Deferred
liabilities
1578
4317
3329
5017
6748
Convert, notes
1226
1226
3051
3051
3051
Minority interests 4
88
94
135
181
Pref. capital
1100
1262
1262
1262
1262
Ord. capital
5128
7398
10180
10846
11353
Deferred cap. ;
4 742
742
742
742
742
Deferred cap.
B —
—
500
500
900
Reserves
2992
7707
9417
10061
11165
12770
22740
28575
31614
35402
Turnover
22186
33912
37064
39500
43701
Depreciation
626
786
922
1296
1316
Tax
820
1089
1069
1016
1010
Net profit
1212
1422
1147
1831
1847
N.P. for ords
1168
1340
1065
1749
1765
Dividends
641
846
992
1322
1419
Surplus
527
494
73
427
346
Earning rate
22.8
19.8
13.3
16.5
15.5
Dividend rate
12J
121
121
121
12J
Dividend yield
(a) 3.4
3.5
6.0
5.3
5.0
Price/earn.
ratio (a)
16.4
16.9
15.9
14.3
15.9
High orice (b)
16/3
16/6
21/1 2
14/101
14/5
Low price (b)
12/8
24/-
13/9
9/8
10/5
(a) End of October, month accounts
presented
(b) Previous ca
ilendar
year.
ACCOUNTS
SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
Current assets
Less current
491
522
768
813
793
liabilities
235
274
346
358
363
—
•
—
—
Working capital 256
248
422
455
430
Investments
242
417
268
186
238
Fixed assets
360
400
469
641
645
853
1065
1159
1282
1313
—
—
—
—
..
Ord. capital
600
613
675
675
675
Reserves
258
452
484
607
638
858
1065
1159
1282
1313
Depreciation
34
37
47
48
43
Taxation
72
46
47
52
55
Net profit
127
96
99
101
103
Dividend
61
67
71
74
74
Surplus
66
29
28
27
29
Earning rate
24.5
15.7
15.3
14.9
15.3
Dividend rate
112
11
11
11
11
Dividend yield
Price/earnings
(a) 4.8
5.0
6.1
5.4
ratio (a)
9.8
14.1
11.8
13.5
High price (b)
21/9
26/3
26/9
18/6
21/-
Low price (b)
17/9
19/-
18/6
16/-
17/3
(a) End of October, month accounts
(b) Previous calendar year.
presented.
ACCOUNTS
SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
Current assets
Less current
559
733
857
1027
1177
liabilities
228
252
347
443
547
—
—
—
.
Working capital
331
481
510
584
630
Fixed assets
165
217
213
338
334
Investments
12
7
6
1
—
—
—
Represented by.-
508
705
729
923
964
Capital
200
309
309
353
353
Capital reserves 29
29
30
138
146
Other reserves
279
366
390
432
465
—
—
—
—
Sales
508
705
729
923
964
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
2331
2563
Depreciation
15
18
16
21
23
Taxation
58
62
56
45
68
Net profit
93
93
83
96
93
Dividend
40
49
49
57
57
Surplus
53
44
34
39
36
Dividend p.c.
20
16
16
16
16
Earning p.c.
46.3
30.1
27.0
27.3
26.2
Dividend yield (a
) 5.4
3.4
3.8
4.3
3.8
High price (b)
46/-
50/-
41/6
42/-
42/-
Low price (b)
33/6
38/-
36/-
35/6
38/3
(a) End of . September,
(b) Calendar year.
. month
accounts presented.
additional fixed term funds from in-
stitutions at an early date.
Permanent finance from ordinary
shareholders is expensive to service at
124 p.c. per annum, unless it is issued
at a solid premium. The last issue, one-
for-four shares, one-for-one options or
7i p.c. notes, and one-for-three 6i p.c.
notes, was at only a 25 p.c. premium,
and was made in December, 1960.
Until the company can reinforce that
earning rate, no real benefits can be
expected by investors.
In the highly competitive oil and
rubber business great strides need to be
taken all the time to stay in the same
place in relation to competitors. Although
the year just completed is described as
one of “consolidation”, in fact great
physical expansion took place, and it
is doubtful if the company can ever
afford to slacken on its efforts or
expenditures.
At 12s. 2d. the ss. shares yield 5.1 p.c.
in income and 6.3 p.c. on earnings. Their
chief attraction is income, supplemented
by occasional modest benefits
Had the Boral merger come to pass
(it was discussed at length in 1962),
more immediate windfalls may have
come to Sleigh shareholders.
CONS. METAL PRODUCTS LTD
Record of Constancy
constancy of earnings is
exhibited by the accounts of Con-
solidated Metal Products Ltd, a holding
and management company with interests
in lead, antimony mining and farm
equipment.
The company was incorporated in
NSW in 1950 to take over various lead
and battery companies. These now buy
scrap and secondary lead, and smelt,
refine and make lead mouldings and
castings.
In 1959-60 the company bought out
New England Antimony Mines- NL,
which mines antimony and sulphide ore
and produces concentrates and anti-
monial fines.
The third division designs and makes
fodder conservation, mechanised feeding
and precision seeding equipment, har-
vesters, pumps and so on.
The group has distribution centres in
all States.
A portfolio of mining, engineering
and basic material companies was worth
£233,000 on balance date, June 30,
1963, compared with book value of
£210,232. Investment income was
£14,100 (6.7 p.c return on book value)
and a profit of £2228 was made in the
sale of some investments during the year.
Total net profit rose fractionally from
£100,575 to £103,326, after provid-
ing £55,056 (last year £52,213) for
tax and £42,518 (£44,755) for depre-
ciation.
Directors said business in farm
machinery and irrigation equipment was
not up to earlier expectations because of
adverse weather. There has been some
improvement in the current year.
Unrecouped mine losses have been re-
duced to just over £33,000. So far ore
reserves are unproven, but directors say
that these losses and the capitalised mine
development cost could be fully re-
couped within a few years. If this can
be done, and profitable ore remains, this
enterprise could be a very successful one,
having fulfilled a most useful purpose
when most needed.
Shareholders again received dividends
of 11 p.c. on capital. In 1955, 1957 and
1959 par issues were offered to share-
holders in the ratios of one-for-seven,
one-for-eight and one-for-nine.
This stock is primarily bought for in-
come. The present price of 21s. 6d. for
the 10s. units is getting rather on the
high side, with yield down to 5.1 p.c. A
more favorable entry price could be
secured within the year. There seems no
justification for chasing the stock above
current levels.
J. BLACKWOOD AND SON LTD
Priced in the
Top Line
T. Blackwood and Son Ltd came
through the credit squeeze virtually
unscathed but experienced the effect of
competition during the latest year.
Despite a 10 p.c. rise in sales to a re-
cord £2.5 million, group profit fell from
£96,339 to £92,433. However, even at
this figure, equal to 26.2 p.c. on capital,
there was a wide coverage to the 16 p.c.
ordinary dividend paid for the fourth
successive year.
The company had its beginning in
1878, yet did not list on the Stock Ex-
change until an issue of 10s. shares was
made at 12s. 6d. in 1953.
Capital growth since then has been


ACCOUNTS
SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
Current assets
Less current
2041
1988
2061
2580
2430
liabilities
1148
1058
1010
1611
741
Working capital
893
930
1051
969
1689
Investments
1
31
31
45
46
Fixed assets
1863
2010
2010
2400
2102
2757
2971
3092
3414
3837
Loan capital
51
51
Minority interests
187
234
238
242
264
Ord. capital
1500
1500
1575
1825
2050
Reserves
1070
1237
1279
1296
1472
2757
2971
3092
3414
3837
Depreciation
131
177
203
204
192
Taxation
163
168
107
179
164
Net profit
252
265
180
234
255
Dividends
120
120
136
137
160
Surplus
132
145
44
97
95
Earning rate
16.8
17.6
10.6
13.7
12.8
Dividend rate
8
8
8
8
8
Div. yield (a)
Price/eai nings
2.8
4.7
4.5
5.0
—
ratio (a)
17.2
9.6
14.3
11.8
—
High price (b)
44/6
63/-
67/3
41/-
36/-
Low Price (b)
40/-
43/6
33/6
32/3
31/-
(a) End of November,
(b) Previous calendar
month
year.
accounts presented.
slow, with a one-for-two par issue in
1959 and a private placement to finance
the takeover of A. E. Baker and Co.
(Holdings) Pty in 1961.
Present paid up capital is £353,300,
all in 10s. ordinary shares.
Profit earning record has been good,
with dividends always well covered.
The company handles a wide range of
plumbers’ and engineers’ supplies. The
takeover of A. E, Baker, which operates
in a similar line, was a logical expansion
move.
Contribution of this subsidiary since
acquisition has not been great but an
improvement is expected.
The latest accounts indicate that a
new share issue may be made in the not
too distant future.
Current assets are a little more than
twice current liabilities. Part of the lift
in stocks from £563,066 to £664,997
has been financed by bank overdraft,
which is up from £220,062 to £294,941.
Assets backing is good at 275. 3d. for
each 10s. share, while capital reserves are
sufficient for at least a one-for-four
bonus.
The market has priced the shares in
the topline industrial bracket at 395. 6d.,
at which price the dividend yield is
about 4.1 p.c.
DAVIS GELATINE (CONS.) LTD
Search for Other Avenues
HThe chairman of Davis Gelatine Con-
solidated Ltd (Mr O. Michaelis)
gave shareholders notice at the annual
meeting that' the company was looking
for favorable opportunities for diversi-
fication.
The most important part of the enter-
prise is the manufacture and sale of
gelatine, but since the removal of import
restrictions revealed Davis Gelatine’s
vulnerability, efforts have been made to
spread the company’s interests.
For instance, in August, 1961, Davis
moved into paper converting and water-
proof and cement compounds, by the
purchase of Safre (Holdings) Pty Ltd
and G. M. Skinner Pty Ltd.
However, Davis soon discovered that
the paper converting industry required
rationalisation, so Safre was sold in
mid-1963 to Kimberley-Clark of Aus-
tralia Pty Ltd for a capital profit of
£27,350. (The net gain in reserves and
unappropriated profits attributable to
this sale was £115,676.)
Proceeds from the sale have been
invested in Stock Exchange securities
and interest-bearing deposits, pending
more permanent employment.
The balance sheet shows a very sub-
stantial improvement in liquidity;
amongst current assets, deposits in-
creased over the year from £43,575 to
£112,831, cash from £138,578 to
£201,102. Bank overdraft is down
from £811,283 to £96,265, and the
£91,495 liability for deposits at June 30,
1962, has been eliminated.
Another major contribution to work-
ing capital was the receipt of 7s. 6d. per
share on July 6, 1962, and 7s. 6d. on
January 7, 1963, relative to the one-for-
five par issue of 300,000 ordinary shares
made originally in November, 1960.
Profit increased in the 12 months
from £234,057 to £255,068, after pro-
viding less for tax (because of a change
in the South African system) at
£163,512, and less for depreciation at
£191,764.
Davis’ subsidiaries make gelatine in
New Zealand, South Africa and the UK,
as well as Australia, and Davis gelatine
is sold in Canada, USA, Central and
South America, India, Pakistan, Ceylon,
Malaysia, Burma, China, Hong Kong
and elsewhere. Competition in quality
and price is keen.
The chairman said in his annual
address that the Australian gelatine in-
dustry was competitive on a world-wide
basis. At the same time he stated that
imported gelatine continued to have a
depressing effect on local trade during
1962-63.
The Tariff Board enquiry on edible
gelatine reported early in 1960 that
Davis Gelatine (Australia) Pty Ltd, as
the sole maker of edible gelatine in this
country, and producer of 80 p.c. of the
Australian output of technical gelatine
and animal glue, suffered from certain
disadvantages high costs of raw
materials relative to overseas (because of
high freight costs), and high wages and
overheads. The gelatine and glue in-
dustry was declared a natural one for
the Australian economy, and Davis’
long history of technical efficiency
placed it in a position to benefit fully
from the expanding market, the report
said.
The rates of duty on gelatine and
animal glue were increased finally
in March, 1962, 12 months after some
temporary protection had been granted.
Meantime Davis made efforts to re-
duce its manufacturing costs.
Prudence governs the directors’
policy on dividends—B p.c. has ruled
since the company went public in 1955.
Earning rates since 1960 have been con-
siderably lower than previously and the
present rate of 12.8 p.c. does not excite
much enthusiasm, except that profit is
arrived at after provisions which are
probably on the generous side.
The prolonged nature of the only
share issue made since the company
was publicly listed in 1955 (a one-for-
five at par in 1960) suppressed any hint
of rapid growth.
However, the 20s. shares could be
bought as a portfolio stiffener by the
small investor at around present prices
of 30s. 3d. where the income yield is
5.3 p.c. The price range so far this year
has been between 325. and 275. 9d.
If the company can readily find some
attractive avenue for its liquid funds,
thus reviving that earning rate, the
stock might lose some of its stodginess.
APPOINTED MD AT 81
Mr W. J. Smith, at the age of 81,
has been appointed managing director
of H. Pettiford Ltd, wire products maker.
He has been a director of the company
since 1958. He was managing director
of Australian Consolidated Industries for
about 35 years until he retired in 1957.
The two other directors of Pettiford
are Mr A. D. Bridges, MLC. and Major-
General Denzil Macarthur-Onslow.


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
One-Man Export Drive
Looking heroically for new markets
A century ago Australia’s heroes were
the men who looked inland for new
territory to explore. Now they are the
ones who look outward for new markets
to win.
Up front in this modern form of con-
quest is a 49-year-old Melbourne man,
Kenton G. Schoeffel, who started farming
at 17 and is now exporting agricultural
and allied goods worth <£loo,ooo a year.
He sells ear-tags to Cambodia, yoghurt
to Singapore, cattle-branding outfits to
the United States, calf food to the Philip-
pines and dogs to Tahiti.
From an office that rubs windows
with the leaves of what Melbourne likes
to call the “Paris” end of Collins Street,
he conducts a complex of activities that
can all be traced to a common point
his lifelong interest in dairying.
Perhaps the interest is hereditary, for
Ken Schoeffel’s great-grandfather, Wil-
liam Pearse, became Western Australia’s
first dairy farmer after he had arrived
here on the First Fleet. Ken himself
started dairying on the family property,
“Horningsea Park,” near Camden, New
South Wales. Much later, after the death
of Sir Charles Merrett, he became manag-
ing director of the century-old farm
machinery firm of Welch Perrin Ltd. He
retired from this position in 1959 after
the firm was taken over by Ralph McKay
Ltd.
Meanwhile, on the property that be-
came his home in 1950, Schoeffel was
setting the foundations for today's variety
of exports. At Cotswold Farm, near Men-
zies Creek, amid the green domes and
clefts of the Dandenong Ranges, he has
experimented in dairying, poultry, pigs,
calf-raising and veal production. Cots-
wold Farm was the site of the. first Vic-
torian demonstrations of silage-making
with the buckrake and forage harvester,
of strip-grazing, sod-seeding, chisel-
ploughing, and a number of other agri-
cultural developments.
It was also the scene of experiments
in turning milk into forms other than
cream and butter. Shakily at first, but
more surely as he picked the brains of
the Department of Agriculture, sought
information from America and got hints
from migrants working for him, Schoeffel
produced and sold increasing quantities
of cottage cheese, sour cream, and, later
as his skill mounted, yoghurt.
From the time, 14 years ago, when he
became the first man in Victoria to
market cottage cheese straight from the
farm, he has not sold an ounce of milk
in conventional forms, and claims that
by directing the yields of his Friesian
herd into non-surplus products he is
making 50 p.c. more profit than he could
otherwise do.
As demand for his sophisticated milk
products grew, he transferred the manu-
facture of them to a dairy company.
Today the products he nursed into pro-
duction are flowing out under the com-
pany’s brands.
Yoghurt is going in regular shipments
to Singapore and will probably soon ex-
tend to Hong Kong. His sour cream, a
favorite in mid-European diets, has found
markets in Australia’s North, among our
Jewish communities and as an ingredient
in many recipes made popular by
migrants.
Schoeffel had always deplored the
yearly slaughter in Australia of some
li million calves as “bobbies” at a few
days old. He thought something better
than this could be done with them, and
the Dutch, with their veal industry,
seemed the ones to show him what. He
went to Holland and arranged to import
the high-quality calf food that is the
lifeblood of the Dutch veal industry, but
the difficulties of shipping it here soon
led to his securing the rights to manu-
facture it in Australia under licence.
company he formed to make the
A calf milk-substitute has become the
country’s largest user of skim-milk pow-
der, consuming it at the rate of about
6000 tons a year. Shipments of the milk-
substitute are going to New Guinea, Fiji
(where Schoeffel was born), Tahiti, For-
mosa, Hong Kong and Bangkok. Other
destinations being prepared for it are
Manila, Japan, Singapore and Honolulu.
In contemplating the Japanese market,
Schoeffel becomes excited. Japan, he ex-
plains, slaughters 400,000 calves a year
as “bobbies” for veal. Why not, he asks,
raise them into beef, using the milk-
substitute powder for the first six or eight
weeks and taking them on to 900 lb. at
nine months with grain? This could make
an enormous outlet not only for the calf
food but for Australian wheat or barley.
A trial shipment of the powder has been
sent to Japan and Japanese nutritionists
have visited Australia and Holland to
study Schoeffel’s idea.
Also to do with calves is Schoeffel’s
best known export, a nipple-feeding de-
vice invented in 1954 and christened the
“Calfetaria.” It is selling today in most
countries of the world, including the
United States, Britain and France. The
yearly sales of about 100,000 individual
units outside Australia are about equal
to the figure for the home market.
A few years ago Schoeffel went to the
United States to find out something about
importing branding equipment from there
or learning how to improve the Aus-
tralian manufacture of it. What he
learned was that our chemical branding
kits were considered by American farmers
to be better than their own. Since then,
through a firm in Vermont, he has been
sending a steady trickle of about 100
branding outfits to the American market,
some finding their way to the home of
branding Texas.
of the companies Schoeffel launch-
ed developed a new kind of colored
plastic ear-tag for cattle and sheep. About
six million a year are sold in Australia,
and they are not doing too badly outside.
A million went in one order to Cambodia,
where they are being used in a United
Nations project to stamp out the disease
rindepest in the country’s cattle. More
than a million have also been used in
New Zealand in a Government scheme
to eradicate bovine tuberculosis.
Efforts to export dairy cattle to Asian
centres' showed Schoeffel the need for
improving the supply so that buyers could
obtain large and uniform lines of stock.
So, near the Victorian town of Echuca
he is busy developing a project in which
500 top-quality Friesian heifers a year
will be reared for export, complete with
veterinary certificates and records attest-
ing their ancestors’ performance. Orders
for some of the stock have already come
from Kowloon.
In the course of his Asian business,
Schoeffel does much travelling. On one
of his trips he sold, in effect, his strangest
export of all college courses at St
Margaret’s, Berwick, for two Cambodian
girls to whom he has become guardian.
Schoeffel has made exporting his
hobby. Within this field his special
hobby-horse is the conviction that what
Australia most needs to foster in its Asian
markets is a way of presenting its goods


UNIVERSITY APPOINTMENTS
UNIVERSITY OF MELBOURNE
Institute of Applied Economic
Research
Applications are invited for the position of
SENIOR RESEARCH FELLOW, RESEARCH FELLOW,
or RESEARCH ASSISTANT in the Institute to study
the extent and causes of poverty in Australia
today.
Applicants should be qualified in economics
and statistics.
The Institute of Applied Economic Research is
engaged in economic research on industrial,
social and financial questions. Current research
projects include innovation in manufacturing
industry, import replacement, road and rail
transport, the financing of the growth of firms
and expenditure on health and hospitals.
The salary range for a Senior Research Fellow
is £2,450 to £3,000 per annum and annual
increments of £llO are payable. For a Research
Fellow the salary range is £1,650 to £2,450 per
annum and annual increments of £lO5 are pay-
able. Initial salary will be determined accord-
ing to qualifications and experience. Super-
annuation similar to F.S.S.U. in Britain will be
provided.
Further information and the conditions of
appointment may be obtained from
THE REGISTRAR,
UNIVERSITY OF MELBOURNE,
PARKVILLE, N. 2, VICTORIA,
and applications should reach him by 6th
December, 1963.
—F. H. JOHNSTON, Registrar.
ALL SOULS' SCHOOL
CHARTERS TOWERS
Wanted from the beginning of 1964:
MASTER TO TEACH GEOGRAPHY AND
EITHER ENGLISH OR COMMERCIAL
SUBJECTS.
Award salary, resident or non-resident.
Housemastership available for suitable
man.
Particulars may be obtained from the
Headmaster.
to them en masse rather than in random
glimpses here and there. He has long
been advocating the setting up of small
supermarkets stocked with the best Aus-
tralian produce the country can offer,
conducting, perhaps, in Australia, a series
of competitions to decide each year what
brands shall have the honor of being in-
cluded in the display.
So far, he says, the idea has not been
exploited in Asia, although the Danes
have used it in London. It offers an op-
portunity, he says, for Australia, at last,
to be first.
Japan as our Good Fairy
The Significance of her Primary Purchases
Tapan has been called the Britain of
** Asia because of industrial similarities.
To Australia she is becoming another
Britain because of the appetite she is
developing for our agricultural exports.
In the past few weeks, leaders of in-
dustries representing many Australian
commodities have expressed official satis-
faction and private elation at the pro-
spects Japan offers us for expanding
trade.
The Minister for Trade (Mr McEwen)
has cautioned against thinking of Japan
as a replacement of Australia’s traditional
markets, but this has not stopped many
from seeing her as an answer to the
Common Market.
From transistors to trucks, Japanese
quality goods have become as familiar in
the Australian scene as were her trum-
peries before the war. Yet despite this
and the fact that she has 10 times our
population, Australia is selling Japan
three times as much as we buy from
her.
The inventory of our Japanese sales
is headed by wool. Last year Japan
bought more than a third of the Aus-
tralian clip twice as much as Britain.
Observers predict that Japan will be
taking half our wool clip within three or
four years, although the International
Wool Secretariat’s director for Japan is
more cautious in setting the date for this
target as 1970. The significance of Japan’s
wool purchases can be appreciated
from the fact that they account for £lO
of every £lOO Australia earns from ex-
ports of all kinds.
Wool men think the Secretariat’s ob-
jective of swelling our Japanese wool
exports by 100 million lb. in the next
six years will depend largely on how pro-
motion is handled in that country during
the next 18 months. Although better than
it was, the country’s per capita consump-
tion of wool is still only 2\ lb. compar-
ed with the 3i lb. for the United States,
Britain and industrialised Western
Europe. Moreover, Japanese production
of synthetic fibre last year was equivalent
to 18 per cent of the world total and
the ratio is still rising.
The Japanese wool industry is ready to
collaborate with Australia on promotion.
If Australia contributes the 445. a bale
recommended by the Secretariat, Japan
will contribute a like amount. The im-
pact of promotion in Japan has gone
deep. Ten years ago a woollen kimono
would have provoked giggles. Today 38
per cent of all kimonos sold in Japan
are made from wool.
Members of the Australian Meat Board
are jubilant at the prospect of sales of
Australian beef, mutton and lamb to
Japan, and a board spokesman was bold
enough to say recently that Australia
would probably not be much worried
about discussing a renewal of its meat
agreement with Britain when the present
pact expires in 1967.
This year Japan’s purchases of Aus-
tralian beef have been stronger than ever
before, accounting to a tenth of the
country’s total beef imports of 37,000
tons. Japan also took a tenth of its
2048 tons of mutton from Australia.
Japan, however, is on a self-imposed
financial quota for meat imports, and
the potential that excites Australian of-
ficials is not yet visible in the figures,
spectacular as the trend they reflect may
be. It is estimated that Japan will need
1,270,000 tons of meat by 1970, and that
there will be a shortage of 240,000 tons
that must be met by imports.
Wheat is another commodity that is
looking to Japan. A member of the
Australian Wheat Board said last week:
“Japan is one of the greatest friends of
the Australian primary producer”.
In the past 12 months Japan has taken
13 million bushels of wheat from Aus-
tralia, compared with an average import
of about eight million five years ago. The
market for Australian wheat is rising,
and within the next five years is expected
to grow to at least 18 million bushels.
Most of the wheat we sell to Japan
goes for stock feeding, but a lot is used
for making noodles and some goes into
bread as blending. The Japanese demand
for Australian wheat makes fun of the
apologies Australia has in the past offered
for the “softness” of its wheat in
contrast to the glamorous “hard” wheats
of Canada, Russia and parts of Queens-
land. Although most of our wheat is
soft, the limited amount of hard wheat
grown in this country is among the best
in the world, and new markets, includ-
ing Japan, are being found for it as a
component in blending.
Barley has lately been making a come-
back on the Japanese market. Many years
ago Japan used to buy a lot of our barley
but sales dwindled and four years ago
they dried up altogether. World-wide
crop failures have once more got our
barley over that country’s economic
threshold recently to the tune of
40,000 tons a year. Experts, knowing
that Australian barley is among the best
in the world, predict that the flow from
Australia to Japan might before long
reach 100,000 tons a year
On the dairying front, cheese is the
star performer. The Japanese have never
liked cheese much, but with women
working and a swing to Western habits
they are beginning to cultivate a taste for
it in its milder forms.
To help accelerate this acceptance,
Australia is supplying cheese to Japanese
school children to eat in their lunches at
concessional prices. In the industry,
cheese shines as an example of adapting
a food to a palate rather than asking a
nation of palates to adapt to a food, as
has too often happened in the past.
The Australian Dairy Produce Board’s
Japanese agent, Mr M. Okazaki, pre-
dicted recently that the Japanese demand
for Australian cheese would rise to about
5000 tons a year in 1964. Only three
years ago the Japanese consumption of
our cheese was a mere 200 to 300 tons
a year.


Legal Notices
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
IN THE SUPREME COURT
No. 1039 Of 1962
IN THE ESTATE of BENJAMIN ROBERT
MARTIN, late of Mary Street, Glenelg, in the
State of South Australia, Carpenter and
Joiner, deceased. NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN
that RICHARD ROBERT ARTHUR MARTIN
a son of the abovenamed Benjamin Robert
Martin deceased and all persons claiming to
be his issue or his legal personal representa-
tives are required before the expiration of
four calendar months from the date of pub-
lication of this Notice to send by pre-paid
post to Public Trustee of 49 Hindmarsh
Square, Adelaide, in the said State full par-
ticulars of their claims to share in the dis-
tribution of the estate of the said Benjamin
Robert Martin deceased otherwise they will
be excluded from the distribution of the
estate. L T. OLSSON, Deputy Master of
the Supreme Court of South Australia.
NOTE: Benjamin Robert Martin died intestate
on the 2nd September, 1931. The deceased
had two legitimate sons namely James
Patrick Martin born on the 10th April, 1889,
and Richard Robert Arthur Martin born on
the 12th August, 1892. It is now desired to
ascertain the whereabouts of the said Richard
Robert Arthur Martin or of persons claiming
to be his issue or legal personal representa-
tives. The said Richard Robert Arthur Martin
left his home in Fitzroy, Victoria, before
1914. He was last heard of in 1929 in London.
Prior to that date he had been a professional
boxer and also a sailor and soldier. He had
lived or travelled in many countries in North
and South America as well as in England. He
had assumed the name of MARTIN D.
SMITH prior to 1929 and may also from time
to time have resumed other names.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
/ IN DIVORCE
TO: CYRIL FERGUSON JACKSON of 37
Anselm Street, Strathfield. TAKE NOTICE
that JOY CHERRY JACKSON has filed a
Petition No. 2065 of 1963 for Divorce on the
ground of your desertion. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
23rd December, 1963, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from A. J. McLACH-
LAN, HOARE, MANN & CO., Solicitors, of 6
Wynyard Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
TUESDAY, 26th NOVEMBER, 1963.
CHANNEL DAIRY OR
FATTENING PROPERTY
ROBERTS, STEWART and CO. LTD.,
HOBART,
instructed by G. N. Blundell, Esq.,
will offer at 2 Collins Street, Hobart,
on the above date at 12 noon:
All that 500 acres situated Birchs
Bay, Woodbridge, Tasmania, only 26
miles from Hobart with almost i mile
frontage on the Channel Highway and
known as “Blue Crane Stud” and
formerly “Ventnor”.
This well known property comprises
75 acres cultivation and remainder
medium to heavy-timbered bush. Of
the cultivation some 35 acres are well
established dairy pasture, 35 acres spring-
sown pasture and 5 acres fallow. Suit-
ably subdivided and with good shelter
belts the paddocks are watered from
either a pressure system or permanent
creek which runs through the property.
Water is also laid on to house, dairy
and garden. The run is in one block,
further areas of which could be
developed.
Improvements: A.E.W.B. Homestead
of 5 bedrooms, sitting room, kitchen,
bathroom, laundry, separate toilet and
porch. Handbasins in 2 bedrooms,
ample built-in wardrobes and cup-
boards, etc. Tiled floor in kitchen, bath-
room and laundry. Polished floors else-
where. Telephone. Bitumastic tiled roof
and all in good repair. Old W.B. House
nearby with office, garage, workshop
and storeroom. 4-stand Milking Shed
and dairy of concrete brick. Large calf
house with loft above; 60’ x 30’ barn on
concrete posts and closed in on 2 sides
with G. 1.; 2 Haysheds in paddocks.
Concrete silage pit and fowl pens.
Fencing quite good.
This delightfully situated holding
overlooking D’Entrecasteaux Channel is
an ideal dairy property or could be used
solely as a Stud Farm or fattening
proposition for anyone desirous of
acquiring a really pleasant locality to
live in semi-retirement. Beaches, fishing.
Area School and good daily bus service
to the city. It is confidently recom-
mended by the Auctioneers.
Terms: 10% deposit, balance on com-
pletion.
Completion Possession: 31/1/64 or
earlier by arrangement.
Finance: To an approved purchaser.
Reference: Murdoch, Clark, Cosgrove
& Drake, Hobart.
Inspection: Through the Auctioneers
or Margate 78.
Tally-hi: a New Shearing Technique
A streamlined style to benefit wool industry
By MARIEL LEE
HThree main sections of the wool in-
dustry, shearers, growers and manu-
facturers, have for some time realised the
need for shearing reform and this, it now
appears, will be achieved by a new shear-
ing technique aptly named Tally-hi.
The law stipulates a certain proportion
of learners in every shearing shed, but
some short-sighted growers, hating to
subject their sheep to any learner, evaded
this law. Even where learners were suf-
fered, who, in the shearing-time rush to
beat the weather and put up high in-
dividual tallies, had time to teach the
novice how not to “shear high, wide and
ridgy” ?
In picking up shearing by hurried ob-
servation and painful “tomahawking,”
with some jeering criticism thrown in,
learner-shearers improved their speed
but, if not started on right lines, sustained
undue fatigue and fell far short of top
figures and so of top cheques. Their
efforts did little to bridge the gap between
shearing force and expanding sheep
numbers.
Some years ago, Horsham (Vic.) Agri-
cultural Society led the way with Aus-
tralia’s first “learn-to-shear” class, and
every year since has been turning out
competent young shearers. Similar classes
now held in other centres have also been
well attended, for present-day shearing
rates now attract more would-be-shearers.
In the face of growing synthetics’ com-
petition, wool-growers, to maintain sales
to manufacturers, must offer only high
quality wool properly prepared; that is,
without second cuts and skin pieces,
which, adversely affecting the price of
both raw wool and manufactured fabric,
lose the Australian wool industry mil-
lions of pounds.
Better shearing, then, is essential to
prevent this loss. To ensure that better
shearing, the Australian Wool Board
asked two of its employees who were
also two of Australia’s best shearers,
former Australian champion Vin Parkes
and international champion Kevin Sarre
who won the 1963 Golden Shears at
Masterton (NZ) last March, to make an
Australia-wide survey of shearing styles
and new shearing machinery develop-
ments.
Out of their observations, their own
experience and experiments has come
Tally-hi, a streamlined shearing style,
somewhat like that current in New Zea-
land, which will benefit all sections of the
wool industry.
The Tally-hi technique embodies free-
flowing, time (up to 30 seconds per sheep)
and labor-saving movements, downward
in easy long rather than shorter, and
sometimes jerky, cross blows, and the
hand-piece is filled in each sweeping
blow. Throughout, the sheep’s position is
changed smoothly as required. With less
resistance from the sheep, less time is
lost and even pregnant ewes are not
bruised or injured.
Demonstrations at recent Victorian
Wimmera Shows have drawn record
crowds, but and it is a considerable
but however interested shearers are
in seeing Tally-hi demonstrated, many
are not yet ready to change their style
of years even for one demonstrably bet-
ter, even though the all-round benefits
of that style can still further increase
wool production in the future.


People are talking
about the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
*N.Z. Subscription to Box 965, Wellington
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick \/ whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? |~j or
A renewal subscription?
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
months subscription to THE BULLETIN.
*New Zealand readers may have their copies air
freighted (£4 4s. N.Z. for 52 issues, £2 12s. for
26 issues) or by surface mail (£3 7s. N.Z. for
52 issues £2 2s. for 26 issues).
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? More
and more people are buying the "new look"
BULLETIN for its features, its overseas and local news,
its columnists like Boadicea, Discus, Cellarmaster, its
reviews of films, books, music and theatre. If you
want to keep abreast of news and significant events
in Australia and abroad THE BULLETIN is a must.
The
Bulletin
A magazine of facts and ideas est. 1880
ON SALE WEDNESDAYS —2/-
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 772
ACROSS
I—Furniture stylist making a strip of potato hang
beer. (11)
6—Beard of the corn needs a couple of directions. (3)
8— Who keeps mum? (3)
9 Scoundrel seen here about a grant from the Equity
Court. (9)
11— Harp on this rig is half crazy. (5, 4)
12— Crazy about mother in the dreadful dream. (5)
13— Maestro opera backed in twice. (9)
15—How a German may mention other milk supply. (5)
16—Esmond the Joker in the
screw. (5)
18—What’s little Stephen to do
about a wharfie? (9)
21— Language is inevitable if
nothing goes back on leave.
(5)
22 Yours Truly is some favourite
tax to entreat. (9)
24 Arid salon in which the
leading lady of “Die Fleder-
maus” appears. (9)
25 Big chemical firm here in
France. (3)
26 May back a sort of sweet
potato. (3)
27 Barmedman disbarred this
witch-doctor. (8-3)
DOWN
1— Icy port confused an
islander. (7)
2 Speaks so that you will infer
somewhat devilish dis-
honesty. (7)
3 Blows struck when with-
drawing Persian photography?
(8, 5)
4 Plane wrecked in high
country. (5)
5 Next cricket team which
scores prolifically must seem
so to the opposition. (9)
6 Corrected afternoon started.
(7)
7 Unbacked with the lucid
reference to atom-age science.
(7)
10—Branch joined by our editor
to exercise rolling stock de-
fensively. (8, 5)
14—Silent lid (anagram). (9)
16— Stone structure which en-
closes one by a little bounder.
(7)
17— Richard Strauss’s early opera
modification of 10-down for
street progress. (7)
19— Honorarium dishonoured by
a collection of private
devotions. (7)
20— Periodical tea isn’t in it. (7)
23—Utensil I see in irrational
agitation. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 771


*
Sir-:, .a;
f.
ONYX
AFTER SHAVE
LOTION
|Wj I ®l|||
■UNTHERIC
t-ONPOJs • J-ARJS
«??
4v S
fc '- :.v^ri'S-*.
£V*S**..
' : .\S?W o. v ;
pirn
;■
tor-men’ |||
'‘'Sl .^Awlil » jtiy .«c
'Yen Or
■n s ' -Oj ~r a-? 0 . ,
- - /6 ~ao — r
ii %m,r ii
': o W
./
ONYX
MEN’S
COLOGNE
a -va'r
BSS&&S
onyx
'-r.,.
ON YX PRE SHAVE
MOTION .
MEN’S TONIC
jj^IiUJRESSINC
SLENTH
'
jHTHSRjC I
ony:
/••mn A r
. MEN’S
!^odor^
"^B9
■
fewefa
'—
.
it
A
fej*. •
«1«
7
NEW FROM LONDON AND PARIS, LENTHERIC’S RANGE OF SINGULARLY MASCULINE TOILETRIES
Carefully understated. Subtle. Low-keyed, wholly
masculine. This is Onyx, Lentheric’s new range of
men’s toiletries, for every man, from careful to carefree.
Shown are the nine ways to make a man feel wonderful.
after shave lotion, 14/6; pre-shave lotion, 14/6; cologne, 15/-;
hair dressing, 12/6; talcum, 10/6; deodorant, 10/6; lather shave
cream, 10/6; bath soap (2), 15/-; shave bowl, 18/9 (refill 10/6).
Plus handsome gift and travelling packs, from 19/6. As yet
you'll find Onyx only in larger stores and leading pharmacies.
Good heavens, we almost forgot—shampoo, too, 9/6.
/
c
LONDON AND PARIS
-NS?PC


Smoking Pleasure
s
o
e BLEND
4 -
iifc—-
J J 4
«V
*
*SWfc
%f.
w
*%
/■/s
*
POUCHES
ggi jr
PRICE: 9 2 OZS.
Bill Keeling—master blender—introduces 3 new tobaccos
as supplied to his personal friends for a number of years
Mr. Keeling's master blends have been highly sought after for
many years. They are now available at your tobacconist in mild,
nut-sweet or rum cavendish pouches. Each is blended of the
finest tobacco leaf available in the world, and your tobacconist
will be pleased to advise you as to the mixture you will most
enjoy. The rare and expensive "Perique"* leaf adds its unique
smoothness and coolness to every pouch.
There is no limit to the smoking satisfaction you'll find with
Tabak—in a pipe or in a roll-your-own cigarette.
II
* .
RARE PERIQUE LEAF
Expensive leaf grown only
on 14 miles of Mississippi
River Flats in Louisiana,
U.S.A., "Perique" draws
out flavour, imparts
smoothness—when master
blended as i.n Tabak.
TABAK...
A MAN’S SMOKE
YOU’LL F?EALLY
ENJOY!
mm
FOR
PIPE OR CIGARETTE
IN SPECIAL “LIMP-TIN” POUCHES
Tabak “limp-tin'' pouches keep tobacco fresh ... all
the protection of a tin with the convenience of a pouch.
Triple laminated, hermetically sealed, special tear-zip for
convenience. A pouch you can be proud to open.
-FREE!
THE STORY OF PIPES, TOBACCOS AND SMOKING
WRITTEN BY MR. BILL KEELING HIMSELF.
To: “Tabak”—so Miller Street, North Sydney.
Please send me Bill Keeling’s absorbing booklet.
NAME
ADDRESS
3
