

The Bulletin
iyoj
Australia 1/-, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION - EST. 1880
NORTHERN TERRITORY'S ROGER NOTT
• MUGGERIDGE'S RIVIERA
• JAILING JOURNALISTS


EXPORTERS: finis will interest you even if you’ve never thought of using Air Cargo before!
M
m m i m
: i p
U I
<- ; : ,
Kangaroo
coat
exports
leap
m
m
mmss
■1
:
The furs fly thick and fast
by Qantas
Kangaroo coats won instant acceptance upon their introduction
a year ago to European and U.S. fashion circles by Cornelius
Furs. And although this enterprising Australian company is
half a world away, it operates as if it were located right in the
heart of these overseas fashion worlds—thanks to Qantas Air
Cargo, which it has used for every consignment since it began
exporting. This continuing use of Qantas services enables
Cornelius Furs to keep its finger on the mercurial pulse of
international fashions and ensures that its fashions are right
up to the minute. The speed and frequency of Qantas Air
Cargo flights further benefits Cornelius Furs in giving it a
maximum work-shop production control no matter how short
the notice given, or how urgent the repeat order. Packaging
costs with Qantas Air Cargo are negligible, but more importantly,
the coats arrive in perfect showroom condition, as they spend
the shortest possible time in transit. An Italian furrier summed
it up neatly by saying, ‘Qantas Air Cargo is helping Cornelius
Furs to keep one jump ahead of their competitors.’
QANTAJ Allt mao
42 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
HOW THIS EXPORTER BENEFITED:
1. Continued use of Qantas Air Cargo permitted
Cornelius Furs to meet continuous demand on
the Continent and keep in step with latest fashion
trends.
2. The company gained a work-shop production con-
trol not available with any other transport means.
3. The company successfully met every short notice
requirement and urgent repeat order.
4. Coats spent minimal time in transit, a stipulation
insisted upon by Cornelius Furs.
5. Overseas clients enthusiastic about speed and fre-
quency of Qantas direct Air Cargo services to
Europe and with rapid realisation of capital
expenditure.
HOW QANTAS EXPORT
CONSULTANT SERVICE CAN HELP YOU:
Qantas puts at your disposal one of the most com-
prehensive transport systems in the world. Qantas
analyses each export/import problem individually and
offers you this Qantas six-point service—FßEE.
1. Distribution time and static time analysis gives
you a time and motion plot on your goods from
despatch to arrival.
2. Costing breakdown on your complete shipping
operation.
3. Systematic appraisal of packaging with suggested
modifications for lighter, more economical handling
and packing of your freight needs.
4. Advice on alternate routings, accelerated cartage,
taxation and insurance reductions.
5. Analysis of current economic situations of world
markets, quarantine, import, currency and customs
regulations.
6. A business venue in many overseas countries in
Qantas offices in Europe, America, Asia, the
Orient, New Zealand and Africa.
EXPORT it by Qantas if it’s
IMPORTant to you!
Qantas Empire Airways Limited, in association with Air India, 8.0.A.C., S.A.A. and TEAL.
Q <\CB4.FPB-33


National Notebook
nt like you and me
igjs is how the London “Observer”
summed the Royal Tour:
The first lesson of the Queen’s Aus-
yian tour, now at the midway mark, is
L Australians are not yet ready for
formality with their royalty. It is a
]r ious quirk of their vaunted down-to-
rth democratic ways. They call a spade
spade; and just as bluntly in their book
{Queen is the Queen and ‘don’t let’s
sack about thinking she’s you or me.’
alike Britons, Australians see the Queen
Lely, and when they do, they want to
l her as the Queen and no half
easures.
It was noticeable that her most talked
lout appearance during three days in
dney was to watch a well-intentioned
il tedious evening open-air ‘Pageant
[ Nationhood’. The
jIOOO spectators who had
led patiently up to
tee hours huddled in
incoats or under umbrel-
i-and the many more
iousands who watched
ore comfortably on tele-
ion saw and acclaimed their image
royalty, a richly gowned regal figure
ill tiara, flashing jewels and ermine
ole.
How can tour officials ‘democratise’
:: monarchy when this is so obviously
it most Australians at any rate want
see and remember?
"It can be said without qualification that
(Queen’s second Australia tour has
tiled every expectation. There were
its before she flew into Canberra from
w Zealand a fortnight ago. Reports
® Auckland and Wellington had sug-
td that this time, compared with her
lorately staged post-Coronation tour
: 1953-54, the response of the normally
®-English-than-the-English New Zea-
*rs had been lukewarm, not to say
There was, too, the warning insistence
bur officials that this time it wasn’t
% going to be a yoyal tour just
visit. It seemed to many Aus-
®ns that palace officials feared the
J st > what with the Common Market
fences and Australia’s growing
o »omic independence, and were pre-
nn § for it. Events have proved them
'fng.
that Australians want all pagean-
Nothing has been better received than
'Queen’s surprise call at a Sydney
Deri's recreation centre, where dozens
s°ungsters and an odd pet dog or two
bned around her and one wide-eyed
asked the Duke of Edinburgh, ‘Gee,
I y°ur wife?’ Clearly this visit has
shown that the inarticulate ‘public’ asks
merely that the royal image be truly regal
but with a human touch.
“Australia’s experience has also shown
that a royal visit need not necessarily be
long to be effective. Each city’s welcome
has been no less affectionate than it was
nine years ago, nor has the gaiety of
the occasion been diminished by the
absence of old-type tour decorations. In-
deed, this almost ‘do it yourself tour,
with little more for decoration than the
flags customarily flown on holidays, has
generated more genuine warmth than the
Mardi Gras atmosphere of 1954.
“There are still some things to be
straightened out before the ideal tour pat-
tern is achieved. The day of that Victorian
anachronism, the formal garden party, is
surely done. The spectacle of some 9,000
people dodging and crowding to see the
Queen in Adelaide’s Bot-
anic Gardens, trampling
flower beds and standing
on chairs, must convince
future tour directors that
such functions add neither
dignity nor pleasure to the
occasion. Hand - shaking,
too, although curtailed this time, is still
frighteningly formidable. Not that the
Queen or Prince Philip show any trace of
concern. They give every appearance of
thoroughly enjoying this visit which,
thanks to the welcome two-day interludes
in the Royal Yacht Britannia between
ceremonial duties, is combining work
with holidays.”
Perth Pangs
TAigby Wolfe has been much in the
” news lately. One day a billboard
proclaimed, “TV Doesn’t Want Me, Says
Digby Wolfe”, and his manager told
the same sad story to an inquiring Par-
liamentary committee. Digby had a
sponsor willing to spend laige sums on a
show that he would compere, but the TV
stations had blocked all approaches.
One of the stated reasons was Wolfe’s
tendency to make what they felt were
ill-advised statements. And in a TV
Times interview Digby did not bother to
deny this. If anything he pointed it up
by proceeding to belittle his employment
in radio as “the bottom”, referring to a
daytime women’s audience show he does
for the Macquarie Network.
By a set of curious chances radio
struck back, without meaning to. A pub-
licity release describing a new Digby
Wolfe show on 6IX Perth became just
sufficiently garbled in transition to pin its
compere neatly to the mounting board,
labelled “Disc Jockey”.
Perth’s “Weekend News” used a head-
ing, “Former TV star now 6IX disc
INDONESIA’S AIDIT Page 21
11,000,000 Communists . .
4
The Tour: No More Grand
Parades 11
Nott of the North 13
The Riviera Once as English as
Bournemouth 16
Film Making in a Pymble Paddock 17
Journalists before the House of
Lords 20
Finding Australia’s Plymouth Rock 28
The Writer’s Wife 35
Industry Optimistic, less
definite 39
Monkey Business in Motors 42
The Man Who Runs “Neddy” 44
They’ve Stopped Throwing Eggs
at the Egg Board 50
t
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 6
AROUND MELROURNE ... 11
OVERSEAS 21
A PAGE OF JOKES 22
FORUM 28
LETTERS 30
REVIEWS 32
RED PAGE 35
MAN ON THE LAND 39
WORLD OF RUSINESS 40
FEIFFER 58
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.
PTY LTD
Head Office: 252 George St., Sydney.
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521.
Phone 27-5971. Melbourne: Phone
MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone B 2691.
Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3.
Vol. 89
No. 4339


jockey”, which took Wolfe right down
into the depths, suggesting he had fallen
from stardom into the select company of
gentlemen whose main stock in trade are
such glittering phrases as “This is a
great record. And on the flipside . . .”
Perhaps Digby did not deserve this
ultimate slur! Or did he?
Tulloch at 8
11/e recently visited Te Koona, near
” Bathurst, where the former cham-
pion racehorse Tulloch is now at stud,
his daily exercise confined to a run
around the small paddock near his stall.
The visit was part of a tour organised
by the Royal Agricultural Society and
sponsored by the Shell group of com-
panies, as a curtain-raiser to this year’s
Royal Easter Show.
Tulloch, who is now eight, seemed to
be his old cranky self, but the stud-
master Peter Haley insists that Joe, as
he’s always been known to his friends,
never deserved his reputation for being
difficult. “Joe just hates anyone who
doesn’t know him,” 'Haley said. “Most
horses are like that. His groom can do
anything with him, but he’d give me a
nip as soon as look at me.” Haley, a
son of the late E. A. Haley, who won
£llO,OOO with Tulloch, is a member of
the syndicate who now owns the horse.
Tulloch went to Te Koona in August,
1961. He has served 27 mares and
already has 15 foals, one of whom is,
Haley says, the biggest animal for his
age he has seen. Five of the mares are
going to America. Two are already
there with their progeny.
The first Tulloch foals will be sold as
yearlings this year and will race in
October, 1964. Not until then will the
syndicate know whether Tulloch is as
good an investment as sire as he was as
stakewinner. “We’ve had plenty of
requests for Tulloch,” Haley said, “but
it’s amazing how reluctant local stables
are to place faith in a local sire. They
all want that ‘imp.’' after the horse’s
name, but some of the greatest rubbish
among racehorses in this country has
been imported here.”
Far-away Places
Harold Ross, the late, irascible editor
of “The New Yorker,” used to sweat
with fear that the blue joke, the unin-
tended double entendre would sully the
pages of his magazine. In this regard,
utterly purposed not to offend, he used
to caution his staff “Remember the old
lady in Dubuque.” We have often won-
dered who she was and in any case why
Dubuque, lowa, rather than Oshkosh,
Wisconsin? We thought of him the other
day when we leafed through the names
and addresses of overseas Bulletin sub-
scribers—increasing in number we are
happy to say. Not too improbably they
live in Wewak and West New Guinea, in
Glasgow and Goroka, in Singapore and
Stockholm, in Cocos and Copenhagen, in
Ross Shire and Rotterdam, in Bonn and
Bombay, in Djakarta and Denver, in
Manila and Madras, in Aberdeen and
County Antrim, in Kobe and Kitwe, in
Oldenburg and Oslo, in Bangor and Bang,
kok, in Leith and Los Angeles, in Kelso
and Kingston, in Yorks, Lancs, Bucks
Notts and Hants. Several addresses how-
ever, did seem improbable on the whole
—a club in Puntas Arenas, Chile a
small island off the island of Bahrein and
(somehow smacking of Arctic loneliness)
Anchorage, Alaska.
Loneliness of Governors
Tasmania’s retiring Governor, Lord
A Rowallan, startled a Launceston
audience last week with a declaration
that he believed Tasmanians were the
most loyal of all the people of the
Commonwealth. Nowhere, he said, had
he found the National Anthem so much
respected.
He recalled, as an illustration, a recent
occasion in Hobart where the over- J
enthusiastic teenage audience of a lead-
ing “pop” singer' had been almost!
riotously out of hand. The playing of
the National Anthem had immediately'
restored order.
“I spoke to the Queen and the Duke
about this remarkable respect for the
National Anthem,” Lord Rowallan said.
“I even suggested to the Duke that he
might have a word in the ear of London’s.
Commissioner of Police to see whether
a similar remedy could be used to restore
order among our ‘teddy boys.’ But he
told me he didn’t think it would work in
London’s East End.”
Lord Rowallan was World Chief
Scout when he became Governor three
We will show nothing
to offend a friendly nation.
The following subjects
are now banned . . .


. n d a half years ago. He was the only
Knight of the Thistle in Australia until
I Robert Menzies got his. Scout ways
live remained with this tall, lean-faced
Scot, and he often speaks at public
ijtherings with the intimate frankness of
J camp-fire chat. His comments on Tas-
janian loyalty were made at a farewell
iocheon given for him by Launceston
egacy, of which he was patron in more
ian name, and in the intimacy of the
iccasion he opened the door a little on
ie loneliness and personal sacrifices
iat accompany the gubernatorial
jandeur.
“We are sorry that time is now running
mt,” Lord Rowallan said. “We would
Save loved to have continued here, but
[have such a backlog at home that I
feel I must return.” He paused in
iatrospection, then almost apologetically
:ontinued: “For the past 25 years my
rife has had to do without me for long
icriods, not just a few days at a time,
is you get older you don’t want to
:ontinue to live in a suitcase for periods
af up to 12 months.”
This Week’s Cover
Informality marked the Royal Tour
in the Northern Territory just as it
narks the Territory’s Administrator,
ioger Nott, who appears on the cover
n the much talked about Darwin Rig.
Hie photo was taken by Darwin photo-
srapher Bill Washington in the grounds
of Darwin’s Government House. Keith
Wiley’s story about Nott’s New Deal for
le Territory starts on page 12.
Tanner
15 Kennedy Family, the Common
the Japanese War, the
Spying, Communism, Apar-
M the Inquisition and Cricket.
PLAIN ENGLISH
MR DAVIDSON'S FOLLY
HHHE fact that the Federal Government has finally given up its attempt
-*• to ban the Bidault TV interview should not blind anyone to the
significance of the reason it gave for this change of policy. It decided to
release the interview because although it could easily ban it from TV,
it would if it was to have done the job properly and protected itself
from universal ridicule have had to ban it from cinemas throughout
the country and ban translations from all newspapers and magazines. At
the thought of a possible struggle of these proportions the Government
caved in and released the interview. But it conceded no error of principle
and implied it would have banned the interview if it could have. The
story is further evidence against those people who think it would be “pro-
gressive” to have a unified centralised censorship apparatus instead of an
“untidy” set of conflicting authorities; but it is no advance in principle.
The usual argument last week in defence of the Government as far
as the ABC is concerned was that, unlike Dr Peter Russo who was recently
allowed, quite rightly, to be offensive to a very friendly Power, America,
M. Bidault is the leader or front-man of an organisation of murderers
pledged to kill the head of the French State. The ABC is a Government
instrumentality, the argument ran, and the Government has close relations
with France in SEATO, the South Pacific Commission, and in trading
arrangements. What would be the French reaction if in a few weeks’ time
one of M. Bidault’s murderers did succeed in murdering President de
Gaulle?
But apart from the fact that the interview had already been censored
by the BBC, which in translating M. Bidault’s statements removed any-
thing that could be construed as incitement to terrorism, the Postmaster-
General seemed unaware that on this precedent, any broadcasts offensive
to any foreign power (not only, say, Portugal or South Africa but America
and Britain, any countries in the free world) would have to be banned
or the Government would be deliberately offensive to the friendly
country in question.
Mr C. Davidson was quoted as saying that he had not thought about
the question of precedents and that this particular matter was grave
enough to justify immediate action. One can only sav that it is the part
of the job of a Minister of the Government to think about precedents.
Since he has still not conceded anything in principle, the ABC cannot
yet be taken absolutely seriously as a news medium.
But none of this had any relevance to the fantastic ban placed on
all independent TV channels. The ABC may be a Government-financed
station, though in Dr Russo’s case this was considered irrelevant, but the
Government is not responsible for what the independent stations broad-
cast. The Postmaster-General could easily have satisfied the French
assuming this were considered desirable by banning the interview from
the ABC and left the private stations free. Instead it asserted the right
not yet withdrawn to regard all TV stations as Government agencies,
reducing the ideal of objective news reporting and commentary to
absurdity.
The basic fact is that M. Bidault is news, that the interview gives
information about him that a mere discussion cannot give, and that the
subsequent commentary cuts him down to size. But for the bureaucratic
difficulties involved, we would have been refused the right to see this
interview and form our own opinions. There is clearly an urgent need for
a basic reform of the Broadcasting and Television Ato remove the
Postmaster-General’s power to decide our opinions for us.


THIS AUSTRALIA
CENSORSHIP
THE DAVIDSON DOCTRINE
Childish excuses to get Ministers out of trouble
C. DAVIDSON
Sweet on France
As I see it
rPHE Govern-
ment
showed good
political sense in cutting its losses and
lifting the ban on the Bidault TV inter-
view so promptly. But whatever chances
Postmaster-General Charles Davidson
had had of avoiding general condemna-
tion he threw away by his neglect (or
incapacity) to think the issue through.
By the time the Government lifted the
ban Davidson had emerged as an in-
dividual who for political expediency—■
the sake of not incurring the French
Government’s displeasure—was prepared
to suspend a valued tradition and to
impose censorship in peacetime.
If you go back and look at Davidson’s
statements and the views put forward on
his behalf by Government spokesmen
seeking to justify his instruction to the
Australian Broadcasting Commission and
the commercial TV stations not to broad-
cast the interview with Monsieur
Bidault, the major theme is that France
is a “friendly” country. Australia must
not offend France. There is almost a
plaintiveness about it—an attitude of “I
couldn’t help it, mate: we have to stay
sweet with the Frenc h.” The infinitely
larger issue that Bidault is an exponent of
the doctrine that assassination is justified
as a method of solving political problems
is not dealt with in isolation and from
the viewpoint of principle but in con-
junction with the unarguable fact that
France is a friendly country.
As I see it, Davidson could have made
a quite respectable (though not necessar-
ily convincing) case in support of his
action in banning the Bidault interview
if he had thought the issue through in-
stead of demonstrating that Government
functionaries, such as himself, are at
times incapable of understanding the
larger issues involved in the decisions
they take.
Davidson could have taken the atti-
tude—
(l) Australia is a community in which
the doctrine that assassination is an
acceptable and justified solution for
political problems is repugnant and mor-
ally unacceptable. (It is interesting to
speculate on how long the Communist
press would enjoy its present political
freedom if it advocated shooting a specific
person —say, the Prime Minister Sir
Robert Menzies or the Treasurer Mr
Harold Holt —in order to solve Aus-
tralia’s economic problems.)
(2) Bidault advocates such a repug-
nant doctrine.
(3) TV is different from any other
medium. When a person gains access
to it, he becomes a direct advocate of
his viewpoint. In newspapers or journals,
the writer who reports such views as
Bidault's is (mostly) himself a product
of the Australian environment and tradi-
tion and (usually) not in sympathy with
such views. Apart from this, there is
a world of difference between reporting
and advocating.
(4) Because of this unique quality
about TV in that a man who appears on
it becomes the advocate for whatever
viewpoint he is supporting, it would be
morally wrong to allow Bidault to appear
on TV.
(5) Davidson had given the controllers
of the ABC and the commercial sector
of TV opportunity to weigh these con-
siderations.
(6) When it became obvious that the
controllers of Australian TV had reached
conclusions different from his, he exer-
cised the discretion undoubtedly vested
in him by the legislation dealing with
television in Australia to enforce his con-
clusion as against theirs.
A decision made on such grounds
would at least have had respectability.
Sir Robert Menzies and the Deputy
Prime Minister Mr McEwen may have
been thinking against the background o
the moral issue rather than whether or
not France was a “friendly” country
when they originally told Davidson tha
they “backed fully” nis decision to ban
the Bidault interview both from AB
and commercial TV stations.
But Davidson then proceeded to make
it impossible for them to maintain ac
ing that defence. He and the Gover
ment spokesmen who rushed to his
fence demonstrating rather conclusive
that as far as Davidson was concern
the decision had no moral or P 1
sophical basis. The decision wou
have been made at all if F fance ,- f
not a “friendly” country, was
as the “friendliness” of the country.
THE ENGLISH QUESTION
ffisulLetCn
March 24, 1883
The ignorant Irish hate the English
without distinction or discrimina-
tion. And the ignorant English hate
the Irish in the same fashion. But
Irishmen who can think, and English-
men who can think—the number is
rapidly increasing—recognise the fact
that the business on hand is not one
of race against race. The intelligent
Irishman perceives that the body of
Englishmen who have profited by his
misfortunes is small, and constitutes
a caste among, and distinct from, the
English people. The intelligent
English man of the mechanical and
agricultural class perceives that he
has no interest in grinding down the
Irish peasant and that such as he
have never been responsible for the
iniquities perpetrated in the past by
aristocratic or plutocratic coteries, in
the name of the English people. As
these facts became recognised, the
alienation between the proletariats in
the two countries is subsiding, and
will further subside. We are not mis-
taken about the sympathy of English
Radicals with the agrarian movement
represented by the Land League. The
first fruits of the soil to the tiller
thereof, is the principle of the Irish
Land League, and is rapidly becoming
recognised as of universal application.
To reason clearly it is necessary to
purge the mind of sentiment, even
national sentiment. Our principles are
equally applicable whether applied to
the Irish, and Egyptians, the Bul-
garians, the Poles, the Boers, or the —
English.


j tt volved was the decisive factor, you can
u on to advocate the assassination of
|| r Khrushchev or some leader in Red
China because the Soviet and Red China
fere not “friendly” countries in associ-
jtions with such organisations as SEATO.
In other words, there was in Mr
pavidson’s eyes no moral factor involved
n the Bidault ban though the moral
[actor and not political expediency was
|e only factor that could provide Mr
Davidson with any justification at all for
itervening in peacetime to suppress by
Government direction as distinct from a
[V station’s right to editorial selection
natter that has a political content, how-
iver distasteful that content is personally
o him or any foreign government,
friendly” or “unfriendly.”
As I see it, Sir Robert Menzies would
be well advised after this experience to
instruct his Ministers that they must be
positive that they have thought through
fhe consequences and implications of any
action they might take to restrict tradi-
tional freedoms before they take such
action so as to ensure that they are in a
position to give such action justification
of a more respectable kind.
Otherwise the Government will again
find itself in the humiliating position
that it will have to make childish excuses
(like saying it overlooked how films and
newspapers were left unaffected by the
Bidault TV decision) to get its Ministers
out of trouble that intelligent anticipa-
tion of the kind normally expected from
a child of primary school standard could
have averted.
ALAN REID
ROYAL TOUR
A COSTLY 125 MINUTES
Building an airfield, and pulling it down again
FROM A KUNUNURRA CORRESPONDENT
ELIZABETH II
Safari
Organisation experts could gain valu-
able experience by studying the
North-West safari undertaken by the
Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh.
Who pays for what is not as fascinat-
ing a question as how much it cost, but
since the latter is almost impossible to
farmine in this case the former might
* a useful exercise in public account-
ig. The investigator would have to look
nainly in the records of the Department
•f Civil Aviation to find the cost of
ling the Royal couple from Darwin to
Cnunurra for a 100-minute visit to
feOrd River diversion dam.
Cost apart—practical problems in
Elding and dismantling an airfield were
considerable.
In its normal capacity Kununurra is
® earthen runway with facilities only
lightly more advanced than those of a
Won strip. It has recently been length-
W by 1,000 ft., a transformation not
“•connected with the Royal visit.
However, a Royal flight demands more
Jan an adequate runway. It requires
lithe facilities of an airfield, and these
' J( I to be provided by DCA. The
Apartment put about 20 of its own
“clinicians into Kununurra to provide
W. It flew into Wyndham or Kunu-
Wa all the communications, navigation
safety devices necessary, plus a
I) ' Ver plant to run them. It is now
4 §aged in flying them out again.
When the Queen touched down at
Kununurra strip on Sunday she was
guided in by a control tower specially
built for the occasion. Two fully
equipped fire tenders overlanded from
Melbourne via Alice Springs were stand-
ing by in case her Convair plane, or
the other Convair sent as a standby
aircraft, crashed. Homing navigational
devices were also installed, and at
Wyndham the latest communications
equipment was put in to cope with the
occasion. At least six other official air-
craft preceded or followed her in.
When her plane touched down, an air-
conditioned Pontiac already flown in by
an Air Force Hercules was waiting. As
soon as she left the plane an air-condi-
tioning plant also flown in by Hercules
was hooked up to her aircraft to keep
it cool while she was sightseeing in a
temperature above 90 degrees and a
humidity level above 50 per cent.
Though the accountant would find
most of the costs in the Commonwealth
ledger, he would also have to look in
the State account for the cost of trans-
porting Premier David Brand and Works
Minister Jerry Wild from Perth to greet
the Royal couple, plus their entourage.
If he ever arrived at a final cost figure
for the whole operation, he would be a
very efficient accountant indeed.
UNIONS
HOCKNEY'S TRIP
"Appointing observers is only
a subterfuge"
IV/Ir Norman Hockney went to East
Berlin last October. He went to a
meeting of the Metal Trades Department
of the Communist World Federation of
Trade Unions. This was not particularly
surprising in itself as it is quite common
for some Australian trade unionists to
accept invitations from Communist
“unions” and to participate in gatherings
for peaceful co-existence.
But this particular visit was different
from any other because, as he states in
a four-page report on his trip now
circulating around NSW trades halls:
“I attended the Conference as an observer
from my union.” And then to under-
line his point the report continues in
bold type: “The government body of
the FEDFA in New South Wales
unanimously endorsed my report of the
4th Trade Conference on my return.”
The report carries the authorisation of
the secretary of the NSW branch of Mr
Hockney’s union and is obviously an act
of defiance towards the ACTU.
This simple statement presents Mr
Albert Monk, the President of the Aus-
tralian Council of Trade Unions, with
the most important problem since the
18 “rebel” unions and he agreed that
there would be no more reciprocal visits
at least until the matter is fought out at
this year’s ACTU Congress.
The Federated Clerks’ Union recently
wrote a letter to Mr Monk drawing his
attention to Hockney’s action.
The fact that Mr Hockney went only
as an observer will be no out for the
union when the ACTU Executive gets
round to considering the Clerks’ letter.
Mr Monk, the ACTU President, made
his position unequivocally clear in his
circular to affiliated unions as far back
as October 19, 1961, when he said: “The
issue at the moment seems to be that
some unions feel they are free to send
representatives to the WFTU Congress
in Moscow during December on the basis
of appointing ‘observers.’ It appears to
the officers that appointing observers is
only a subterfuge and completely ignores
the letter and spirit of the 1953 Congress
decision.”
The underlying problem which con-
fronts Mr Monk is that the WFTU is
known to be going ahead with its plan
to have Australian “observers” at its
conference in Bucharest in May. If the
Hockney idea works there will be no
shortage of Australian trade unionists
enjoying the sights of Hungary and
thumbing their noses at the ACTU.
MUGGA


SECTS
THE NAZIS MUMBLE ON...
No followers but plenty of letters
ADOLF HITLER
“Spiritual Leader”
The following letter appeared :n The
Bulletin on February 9:
“Sir, As a newly recruited member of
the National Socialist Movement I wish
to warn you that all pro-Communist and
Leftist statements made in your magazine
are being carefully recorded for future
reference. After we have defeated the
Marxist-Jewish foe and established a New
Order in Australia your record shall be
carefully studied; if it is found to be, on
balance, anti-Australian and anti-Western,
the appropriate measures will be taken
to prevent the publication of any further
subversive literature by the Bulletin
Newspaper Co. Pty Ltd.
E. R. Cuwthron, B.Sc.
Somerton (SA).
An enquiry from Mr Cawthron pro-
duced a sizeable bunch of literature and
the name of Mr D. Lindsay, of Haber-
field, NSW, as the person to apply to for
membership.
In reply to further enquiry, Mr Lind-
say produced yet more literature (postage
1/5) emanating from Australia, USA,
Britain and South Africa, and the follow-
ing letter, dated February 24:
“Dear White Race Comrade —You say
you are sympathetic to National Social-
ism—hardly good enough. The minimum
is to be absolutely convinced beyond
all doubt that the Jews financed the Red
Revolution in Russia in 1917, that the
Jews are behind all race mixing, and that
the five sub-races of he White race are
superior to all other races of the world,
and that, of those five sub-races, the
cream of same is the Nordic race.
“The White race must be bred back
to the classical Nordic ideal. Thus our
Nat. Soc. slogan could well be — ‘Not
racial equality, but racial quality’.
“You ask questions but give no par-
ticulars of yourself. How am I to know
what Nat. Soc. literature Mr Cawthron
sent you? I am not psychic. So I have
enclosed herein literature that I do not
think he has had to pass on to you.
“Finally, you can tell me what makes
you believe you are sympathetic to Nat.
Socialism. With Nordic Racial Saluta-
tions and in the cause —juden Raus!
yours fraternally, D. Lindsay
Sieg Heil Heil Hitler”
The organisation of the party provides
that where an isolated member enrols
in a particular area, his primary aim
should be to distribute literature selec-
tively in that area to obtain further
members. When several members exist
in the same area they will be put in
touch with each other to form an unoffi-
cial cell.
“Only when such a cell is sufficiently
strong and a proven leader is available
shall we take the step of making an
official unit or branch of it.”
The official organ of the British
National Socialists, “The National Social-
ist”, of October, 1962, records the found-
ing of the World Union of National
Socialists (WUNS) at the Costwold Con-
ference in August, 1962, attended by
the Commander of the American Nazi
Party, Lincoln George Rockwell, who
was appointed International Leader, with
the British fuehrer, Colin Jordan, as his
deputy.
The Cotswold Agreement sets out the
immediate purposes of WUNS as—(l) To
form a monolithic, combat-efficient, inter-
national political apparatus to combat and
utterly destroy the international Jewish,
Communist and Zionist apparatus of
treason and subversion; (2) to protect
and promote the Aryan race and its
Western civilisation, wherever its mem-
bers may be on the globe and whatever
their nationality may be; (3) to protect
private property and free enterprise from
Communist class warfare.
All signatories are pledged “to obey
implicitly the international commands of
the International Leader, and no organisa-
tion or individual, failing to acknowledge
the spiritual leadership of Adolf Hitler
and the fact that we are National Social-
ists, shall be admitted to membership”
The insignia of WUNS is a swastika
with a small globe in the centre “in the
color of the Jew and United Nations blue
flags, signifying the white race crushing
and eliminating these foul and alien
bodies, and the fact that WUNS is inter-
national.”
US Nazi Commander Rockwell, in
his periodical, “Rockwell Report”, claims
that he has not “slavishly copied Adolf
Hitler, but has modified his pioneering
experiments We believe and preach
that the (US) Republic was meant to be
and was AUTHORITARIAN, not
EQUALITARIAN —We are National
Socialists because we believe in the ideas
set forth in ‘Mein Kampf— It is not
without significance that there were eleven
disciples of Adolf Hitler crucified in
Nurnberg.”
The party also recommends the “Wyke-
ham Pamphlets” and the “Innisplain
Bulletin”, both produced by Mr D. W.
deLouth, of Queensland.
Quotable quotes from the Wykeham
Pamphlets No. 93 “On the even-
ing of May 31st, 1962, in the gangster
State of Israel Adolf Eichmann was
murdered”. No. 81 “Let your war
cry be not only Adolf Hitler and his
swastika, but also Nurnberg ”
The “Innisplain Bulletin” (Jan. 10,
1963) calls us to prayer “Hasten, I
beseech thee, to execute judgment on
the Jewish uncircumcision now stalking
through the land.”
ERIC PATTEN.
COMMUNISTS
...AND THE COMRADES STUMBLE
The Big Split
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
np H E Australian Communist Party is still
wracked by the dispute raging
between Moscow and Peking. The pro-
Chinese faction, which sees “revolution-
ary socialism” rather than Khrushchev’s
“peaceful coexistence” as the route to
a Communist world, has its main strength
in Victoria and has already set an
endurance record for a defeated political
faction in the local Communist Party.
Such deviationists as the “Jacksonites”
in the ’thirties and the Blake-Henry
grouping in the ’fifties were quickly
routed, never to trouble veteran leader
Lance Sharkey again. The Peking
faction, however, continues to ma e
trouble, despite the removal of Mr E. •
Hill, Mr Ken Miller and others of its
leaders from the key positions ff* e y e
in the CP prior to last year’s show-
down. . ,
Recent issues of the local Communis
Press have revealed the continuing con
cern of the Sharkey - Dixon *
leadership over the activities and ar c
ments of the pro-Chinese elements


je CP. First they invoked the prestige
jf the Italian Communist leader, Palmiro
fogliatti, one of the most flexible and
successful Communists operating in the
festern world. An article by Togliatti
fas published, in which he argued the
Moscow case against the Chinese, going
lirther in the direction of “liberalism”
|an the Russians. This was followed by
\ lengthy statement by the Australian
party’s central committee which roughly
included by telling the Chinese to
hut up.
The effect of these two articles is to
jlace the Moscow - Peking dispute
ifficially before the party’s membership
ind to invite discussion on it —discussion
fhich must, of course, finish up with the
:onclusion that Khrushchev, not Mao,
is correct. This is not the usual Sharkey
method of stamping out heresy; usually
lie has confined the struggle, if any, to
lie top-level committees of the party and
innounced the triumphant result later to
lie rank-and-file. This treatment has
ilready been given to Mr Hill and he
vas duly removed from his offices The
Isct that Sharkey is now presenting his
case to the rank-and-file indicates that
up-level surgery has not solved the pro-
Peking deviation.
There are at least two reasons why the
Peking deviation persists. One is the
mailing lists of addresses of Australian
Communists and sympathisers which
Peking organisations have built up over
le years when its publications were
fervently peddled by the Australian CP
and the Australia-China Society. The
value of the latter organisation to the
Hill supporters was implied in one of
their bulletins in which they charged
Sharkey with putting the “comrades”
in the society in an embarrassing position.
HThe principal English - language pub-
lication from China is “Peking Re-
view” and it is through this that large
numbers of local Communists are having
the “revolutionary socialism” line put to
them. Like many Communist propa-
ganda publications from overseas, it has
a tendency to keep on arriving years
after the original subscription expired.
Its draw-back, from any point of view,
is the turgid, dreary style in which it is
written, even when it waxes polemical
about Running Dogs of Imperialism,
Paper Tigers and blood-stained maniacs
of Wall Street. Only dedicated students
of the issues involved have the stamina
to cope with its boring wordiness.
But Peking is now mailing to Aus-
tralia a potted pops version of its case.
This comes in the form of a six-page
“Letter from China” issued by the
veteran American pro-Communist Anna
Louise Strong, who has resided in Peking
for some years. She claims that she
started the neatly-printed “Letter from
China” to “lessen my work of writing
to a dozen or more friends at once.”
After a while, other expatriates in
Peking lent a hand with the result that
"It looks like a genuine Ming to me."
she now runs a nice little monthly
magazine.
Her helpers are mainly other Ameri-
cans living in China. They include
Israel Epstein and his wife, both of
whom work for organisations in Peking,
Sidney Rittenberg, who is employed by
Radio Peking, and Joan Hinton, a live-
stock expert working in the Sian region.
Another is the New Zealander Rewi
Alley, who has lived in China almost con-
tinuously for the past 30 years and who
has published a number of books in
support of Mao’s regime.
These between them give a popular
exposition of Peking’s views aimed at an
audience which would not read the
heavyweight declarations of “Peking
Review” or translations from “Red
Flag.” Thus Miss Strong argues suc-
cintly that “the deal of the two Ks
ignored Cuba’s existence as a Revolution
and even as a nation. Castro, in his
November Ist television speech, restored
the dignity of his nation and there-
with of the world’s people. . . . Peace
has not returned to the Caribbean.
Kennedy rides high, for his nuclear
blackmail won!” Other contributors
enlist anecdotes about their children to
explain the heroism of Castro, the
villainy of Kennedy and the perfidy of
Khrushchev. Rewi Alley prefers to put
the case in the form of a species of
poetry:
Rulers of the world's richest
state, look over their income
reckoning how best to spend in
the coming year; shall : t be
on rockets to the moon, space
ships, or more napalm burning
of Vietnamese villagers; blockade,
subversion against Cuba; looting
a prostrate South Korea; planting
new bases in a re-armed Japan
or putting new spy satellites
into orbit; pouring new billions
to ensure India help for an
invasion of China; paying to build
new bases up the Amazon to keep
Brazil s poor, poorer, or for
a nice new nuclear base in Paraguay
That is an extract from “United States
Budget, 1963” and it presumably ranks
as poetry because it is chopped up into
lines and doesn’t use many capital letters.
Needless to say, neither Miss Strong
nor anybody else in China could start up
any sort of a journal without the Com-
munist Party’s very close approval. Nor,
for that matter, could she mail it to
addresses abroad, including Australia,
without CP backing. It is, in fact, one
aspect of the moral and material
support from Peking which has enabled
its supporters in the Australian CP to
operate as a significant faction.
The second factor has been the
position of Mr E. F. Hill himself. He
was a big man in local communism


MODBURY ESTATE
WHITE BURGUNDY
I 961
THE s>
[ °OBU R Y ESTATE
f«ITE BURGUN^
This full, rich, white
wine has been pres-
sed from selected
Semilion grapes
grown on the gently
contoured vineyard
slopes of Modbury
Estate which nestles
in the Adelaide
foot-hills. The ap-
pealing fragrance
and flavour of
this wine, served
cool, enhances
the enjoyment
of cheese, sea-
food, veal and
poultry.
&
Ixs
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. P/L., MELBOURNE
ME2
before his demotion, though no bigger
than J. D. Blake was when he was
beaten in his tussle with Sharkey. Hill
is more formidable and a trickier prob-
lem because of the support he has among
certain trade union leaders and because
of connections he developed with ALP
leaders in situations which threw them
into alliance with the Communist Party.
One such situation was during the Anti-
Communist Bill Referendum and an-
other was during the Petrov Royal Com-
mission. On both occasions, Hill was
the principal liaison man on the CP side,
and it is perhaps significant that Victoria,
not NSW, was his arena.
Further action against Hill therefore
has dangers from Sharkey’s point of
view and there is the further compli-
cation that Sharkey does not know in
precise terms what they are in terms of
CP contacts and influence in the trade
union movement and ALP. It is this
which has saved Hill so far, but last
week there was talk in the Victorian CP
that his expulsion was close.
IMMIGRATION
JOBS FOR ENGLISHMEN
Who will look silly?
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
DAVID BRAND
Without consultation
HThe current row between the Labor
Party and the WA Government
over British migrants has very little to
do with immigration. Its basis is a fun-
damental divergence of opinion over the
State’s industrial development.
For the moment, the Labor Party can
use migrants as a political talking point
and it is losing no opportunity to do so.
State secretary Joe Chamberlain has
foreshadowed a Labor request for a
special meeting of State Parliament to
discuss migration and unemployment
and has threatened to put union officials
aboard ships at Fremantle to contact
migrants brought out by the State's own
recruiting mission, “to advise them ac-
curately of employment prospects in
this State and alternative opportunities
elsewhere in Australia.”
Mr Chamberlain’s threats came at
the end of a long article in the party's
paper, “The Western Sun”, which at-
tacked the State's recruiting drive for
skilled workers overseas and said it had
embarrassed the Commonwealth Immi-
gration Minister, Mr Downer.
Cause of this conflict is the Lonnie
recruiting mission, a State-operated
party which recently went to Britain to
gain skilled workers for the State's in-
dustrial programme. It was headed by
Mr W. S. Lonnie, State President of
the RSL and a senior Government offi-
cial. Reports of the number of migrants
it gained vary considerably, but Mr
Lonnie himself has said that 2500 new
workers are likely to be brought in as
a result of it. Nobody has yet said
whether the mission promised jobs to
the men it selected, or just assured them
there were plenty of jobs available.
Whatever inducements it offered are
going to be thrown back in its teeth if
the 172 migrants now on their way to
Australia are not given jobs as soon as
they get here. Current indications are
that they will be lucky if they all do.
The State’s January registered unem-
ployed figure of 8190 was one of the
highest on record and represented a
bigger lift in unemployed in WA than
in any other State. The migrants now on
the way are all skilled workers, and there
are more opportunities available in this
category, but nobody will say at this stage
whether jobs have been found for them,
On the other hand, “The Western Sun”
could not back up its foolhardy claim
that no jobs had been arranged for the
migrants at all.
The major difficulty in the current
row is that nobody has yet worked out
exactly what labor requirements will
stem from the Liberal-Country Party
Government’s industrial drive, by which
it claims to have attracted £150,000,000
worth of new industries. Mai.y of them,
like the BHP iron and steel industry,
are long-range projects which are not
big employers of labor. At the moment,
there are no new major projects to be
started in the State within the next
couple of months. Most of the migrants
so far brought out by the Lonnie mis-
sion seem to have found jobs, but this
supposition is only based on the fact
that none of them have publicly
claimed to be out of work yet.
As usual, a seemingly trivial factor
is behind the Labor attack. The Lonnie
mission did not include any trade union
representatives, and Premier David,
Brand repeatedly pooh-poohed attempts
to get union representation. He said
there was no point in sending unionists.
It was rather a typical reaction on the
part of a relatively inexperienced Prem-
ier who has not yet ’earned the value
of seeming to co-operate with the trade
union movement. Mr Brand is still in-
clined to think he can run the State
without consulting Labor, an attitude
that may cost him dear in the future.
The newly-formed Trades and Labor
Council is a lot more militant that t e
old Trades Union Industrial Council
and it has many grievances against t e
Government that it could exploit in IIS
trially, including the three weeks annua
leave issue and margin payments.
The latter is a most lively issue.
Employers’ Federation has issue in
structions to all members not to P a
Eastern States margins in the me
trade, and this has angered the nll ’ a
Boilermakers’ Society considerably. j
metal workers vital to construction P J
jects, the unions could embarrass
Government by continuing their pr es
policy of lightning stop-work tac ics
the Kwinana area.


Around the Tour
NO MORE GRAND PARADES
ny the time you read this the Royal
™ Tour (vintage 1963) will be
almost over. Take a good look at it,
for almost certainly this is the last of
its kind.
Our post-war tours have had some-
thing of the atmosphere of a Caesar
or a Pompey returning from their
victories on the Rhine to claim their
triumph. The monarch has been
paraded through the streets to the
cheers of the crowd, and all the
trappings have been there bar the
captured slaves following behind,
roped neck to neck.
In many ways this tour has been
of incalculable benefit to the country.
The dear old Yarra was made almost
pure, and frightful Bulmer Island, at
the mouth of the Brisbane River,
miraculously became a tropical para-
dise. And how about Canberra?
There were more than 30 miles of
Royal Progresses in Canberra. This
meant that along the entire distance
every weed was removed, every piece
of paving, kerbstone and nature strip
was made a regal joy to behold. All
areas off Royal Progress routes were
left exactly as before, but it can’t be
denied that Royal tours do much to
pave our capital cities.
The cost, the effort, the fear of
waning enthusiasm—that’s the thing.
Maybe you have stood yourself by the
roadside, just a little embarrassed as
to what to do. Time and again the
situation has been saved by the local
president of the Lions’ Club or a local
alderman calling for three cheers.
According to the officials on tour
the future pattern will be this no
more Roman triumphs, no more Bos-
wellian grand tours. In future the
Queen or members of the Royal
Family will come only for specific
things like the opening of the Sydney
Opera House, a Melbourne Cup, a
major anniversary. Heavens above,
they say, the Queen doesn’t go on
grand parades through the provinces
® England. She makes about four
major public appearances a year, such
as Royal Ascot, the Guildhall, Troop-
®g of the Color, opening of Parlia-
ment and such specific jobs, you see.
It’s significant that the most success-
ful functions on this tour were those
that didn’t really need the presence of
Royalty they would have gone on
anyway; such as the great water
pageant in Adelaide, the bushmen’s
picnic in Brisbane, and the Royal
regatta in Hobart. Though goodness
knows what the Royal party thought
of the battalion of marching girls
which performed at the regatta. The
English Press gentlemen were shocked
to the depths of their typewriters
they had never seen this phenomenon.
They felt that Australia was in for a
ghastly upsurge of female militance.
However, these big, natural crowd-
drawing functions should be the tar-
gets for future Royal tours —out by
Qantas jet, the whole tour over in a
week. The Britannia is all very charm-
ing, but something of an anachronism
in 1963.
And have they enjoyed it? Yes, of
course they have, but could a corres-
pondent be forgiven if he pointed out
that it was the Duke’s tour. The
Queen was charming, poised, infinitely
patient; but it was the Duke who
always reacted. Remember the
occasion of the Canberra Jubilee, the
rather witty narration of the capital’s
history? It was the Duke who laughed
and appeared to enjoy it immensely.
The Queen gave it no recognition
whatever.
The photographers, too, com-
plained. Time, time, time and again
at the crucial moment the Queen
would fail to smile, or look in the
wrong direction. They don’t suggest
for a moment there was anything
deliberate in this, but they remember
the Queen Mother. Always she did
everything right, always she performed
for the photographers. They loved
her so much that when she went home
they presented her with a posy of
flowers, and as the plane left the
tarmac they spotted her waving that
posy from the cabin window. And
how the photographers wished the
Queen had picked up a baby at the
opening of Melbourne’s Royal Child-
ren’s Hospital what a world picture
that would have made.
But, as we pointed out before, the
old style of Royal Tour is finished.
It has all been going on for a long
time. The first was in the year "1867,
the tour of Prince Alfred, Duke of
Edinburgh, aged 22, the second son
of Queen Victoria. He had fair hair,
a good forehead and a good nose; in
short, a good-looking young chap.
This Duke of Edinburgh came out
as captain of HMS Galatea. All the
nonsense was no different then. There
were school demonstrations, fetes,
levees, tree plantings, foundation stone
layings, military reviews he copped
the lot. Towards the end of the tour
he went to Clontarf, NSW, for a
corroboree. At the height of the
playing of a didjeridoo an Irishman
named Henry James O’Farrell got
close to him and shot him in the back.
Our Duke of Edinburgh fell to the
ground. Fortunately it was only a
flesh wound, and the Duke recovered.
O’Farrell, considered by some to be
off his head, was executed. But here’s
the point. The day the Duke of
Edinburgh was shot was March 12,
1867. It was March 12, 1963, that
the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh
celebrated the 50th anniversary of
the naming of Canberra. Happily, on
that sunny day in Canberra, nobody
was tactless enough to mention this
somewhat strange coincidence.
TOOWONG


NOTT OF THE NORTH
A whiff of smelling salts ...
By KEITH WILLEY
When the Queen and Prince Philip
touched down at Alice Springs
Airport last week a tall, slim
man in shirtsleeves greeted them. He is
Roger Nott, Administrator of the North-
ern Territory, Governor in all but name
over 523.000 square miles one-sixth
of the Australian continent.
Nott's appointment to Government
House in Darwin nearly two years ago
acted on the Territory like a whiff of
smelling salts to a desiccated maiden
aunt suffering from the vapors. His pre-
decessor, Clarrie Archer, was a perman-
ent Public Servant whose role, following
the freewheeling di.ys of the immediate
post-war period, had been that of rubber
stamp to the various ukases that issued
from Canberra.
A series of bad smells had arisen from
illicit grog selling, gambling and question-
able deals in land. It is no secret that
Archer's orders were simply to clamp the
lid on the place. He did that job well,
earning thereby the nickname of
“Cautious Clarrie”. He performed the
routine chores demanded by the post,
but made no decisions. He merely imple-
mented the will of Canberra and presided
suavely at sundry State occasions. Under
the Archer regime the Administration
avoided mistakes by simply doing
nothing. And after five years of that the
Territory lapsed into a state of general
torpor.
The Public Service expanded merrily
under an inspired application of Parkin-
son's Law; departments grew and multi-
plied. Hostels were improved and new
ones added. Reports and recommenda-
tions proliferated and all of them,
after much discussion and headshaking,
were sent on their way to Canberra, to
gather dust in the pigeon-hole marked
“Northern Territory”.
Every plane from the South disgorged
a new band of recruits, each white-
shirted and shorted, equipped with
bland smile and socks trimmed to the
regulation length just below the knee.
Government employees thrived like fleas
on a carcass, and all their chirping and
hopping about could not disguise the fact
that life had departed the corpse that
gave them nourishment.
The expansion of the Public Service
only just disguised a general drift of pri-
vate population away from the area. En-
terprise stagnated. Buffalo and croc
shooting had collapsed. So had the cattle
trade to the Philippines. The Humpty
Doo rice scheme round which there
had been such rosy dreams was in
ruins. Hundreds of acres were parcelled
out around Darwin as “agricultural
leases”, but you couldn’t even buy a
parsnip grown locally. Everything came
from Adelaide, at sky-high prices.
Despite the rantings of Federal (non-
voting) member Jock Nelson, and a
gaggle of businessmen, Darwin politi-
cians, journalists and assorted visionaries,
there was not one worthwhile develop-
ment scheme going on in the North. The
Legislative Council was in revolt. Mick
Paspalis had made a million pounds out
of various schemes, but everyone else
seemed to be on the breadline. Businesses
collapsed with sickening regularity. And
if bankers didn't leap out of third-storey
windows in despair, it was maybe because
Darwin had hardly a building much more
imposing than a souped-up Sidney Wil-
liams hut.
Roger Nott dropped in on all this like
a thunderbolt, and lips pursed and chins
wagged at the beer-barrel soirees which
are the chief amusement of Darwins
“Government set”. v Almost his first act
as Administrator was to do away with
such nonsense as cummerbunds and
monkey jackets. He decreed “coats off
at Government House functions. "Darwin
rig” was to be official wear in future.
Of course, in the Territory nothing
goes off quite that simply. The usual up-
roar arose over what exactly constituted
“Darwin rig”. Some said it was black
pants, white long-sleeved shirt and blac
bow tie. Others added a cummerbun •
Others, again, reckoned the tie could e
any length or any color. Some even
ged for separate modes of “Darwin rig
and “Darwin formal”. It was all 1,108
confusing. ,
None were more confused than
southern men's wear specialists, in co °
sternation that anyone could serioUS g
dream of banning The Coat. Post- as ,
they flew north a representative, y°
smooth, handsome, fresh, to pl u §


virtues of tropical suiting. Appalled by
vistas of hairy knees, he sought audience
ff jth the Administrator. After an unsatis-
factory interview, he trudged around the
[own, his collar limp with sweat, his
lightweight jacket and long pants sagging
damply- For three days he extolled the
advantages of the tropical suit. But there
were no takers.
‘The Rig” defined
Finally he was observed by a news-
paperman drinking beer in his shirt-
sleeves and, on this fact being reported,
departed back South in a huff. Nott sooth-
ed rising tempers by defining a “Territory
rig” as “white long-sleeved shirt, tie or
bow tie, long trousers and dark shoes”.
Socks, presumably, are optional.
“Territory Rig” has been in force
ever since. Nott and Territories Minister
Paul Hasluck had it on when they greet-
ed the King and Queen of Thailand at
Darwin. And, apart from two super-
official functions when tuxedos and mon-
key jackets were got out of mothballs,
“Territory rig” was de rigueur for the
recent Royal visit.
Besides saving Territorians a lot of un-
necessary sweat through dress reform,
Nott lightened the atmosphere in other
directions. For one thing, he got to know
the place, travelling further throughout
the Territory in one year than Clarrie
Archer had done in all his five years of
office. He attended Brunette Downs races,
had lunch at a cattle station on the
NT-SA border, flew over to Melville
and Bathurst Islands and into Arnhem
Land some of these places where no
such personage as an Administrator had
Ever been seen before.
Nott is a convivial man, and there has
been no repetition of the scene, a few
fears back, when a high Canberra poten-
tate produced a bottle of whisky while
faming with two or three cattlemen out
teh. The potentate poured small tots,
placed the cork and was about to
P°cket his bottle when a hand restrained
ton- A Territorian pulled the cork and
tew it away. “We don’t use them things
® this country,” he said.
Nott, former shearer and wheat
tener, is a man’s man who can hold
own in any company. Territorians
lo °k to him at once; and he appears to
te them. He did his bit for assimilation,
ll)0 , by inviting native' citizens as guests
10 functions at Government House.
Nott’s essential humanity showed
teugh in such actions as hiring as
tetener an aboriginal who had just been
Ranted citizenship, but was battling and
wn on his luck. He showed it again at
tee Bay settlement when he managed
® get loose from austere Director of
“fare Harry Giese for long enough to
5Ve a yarn with a couple of natives,
Laurie One-Eye and his lubra. Nott re-
marked that, like them, he had lost an
eye. He pointed out the false one he wore
in its place. Later, fulfilling a promise,
he brought Laurie and the woman to
Darwin for fittings, then sent them home
to Snake Bay with brand-new glass eyes.
Probably they have followed normal
aboriginal custom by losing them since at
a card game. But the thought was there,
and Territorians of every color, shape and
size took note.
Nott’s background was entirely differ-
ent from that of his predecessor. Archer
was a permanent Public Servant, train-
ed to “administrate” but not to initiate.
Files, spools of red tape, pens, ink . . .
these were his province. Not ideas.
Roger Nott, on the other hand, is a
practical man, a battler. Now 55, he
was born at Gulgong, NSW, 30 miles
from where Dunedoo now stands. His
grandfather grew the first wheat in this
district in 1856. Roger Nott grew up
there, and expects to die there when his
working life is over. It is his home, in
a sense that only farming men can really
understand. During the depression years
Nott worked as a shearer. He never
reached the “ringer” stage, but earned
enough to buy land, adding to it bit by
bit until he had enough to call himself
a farmer. The lesson stuck. He made
sure his sons aged 26, 23 and 21
were all qualified wool-classers before
he turned them loose on the world.
In 1941, still battling along as a share-
farmer growing wheat around Dunedoo,
Nott stood for State Parliament as Labor
candidate in Liverpool Plains. It was a
blue-ribbon Country Party seat, but he
won it by 150 votes and held it for 20
years until he resigned to come to Dar-
win (upon which the Country Party
promptly won it back again). Nott made
Cabinet rank, holding the portfolios of
Mines, Agriculture and Lands. As a
farmer, Agriculture must have been his
favorite. He was responsible for the
State Government’s soldier settlement
scheme, which placed 400 veterans on
the land.
But the toughest job was in Mines.
Nott took over during the difficult years
after the war when mechanisation put
3,000 coal miners out of a job in the
Cessnock-Kurri Kurri area. They were
sacked hundreds at a time, and tension
was high. Many staged stay-in strikes,
with their women ferrying provisions
down from the pithead. Nott, in his own
words, was “the most unpopular man in
Cabinet—taking all the kicks”. Eventu-
ally the men were placed elsewhere, and
things settled down.
But after 20 years of political life,
Nott was looking for something different.
He had visited the Northern Territory
twice in 1958 and again in 1960
when he was cattle judge at the Darwin
Show. He knew its potential; its im-
portance to Australia’s future. And when
Federal Cabinet offered him the job as
Administrator for a five-year term he
grabbed it. The choice of Nott, a Labor
man, was a credit to the Government’s
honesty and sense of fair play. And, at
that, it created no precedent. One pre-
vious incumbent, Frank Wise, had been
a Labor Premier of West Australia.
Nott faced problems galore. But
mining and the pastoral industry offered
the best prospects for development, so
he tackled those first. The Territory had
an estimated one and a quarter million
cattle and not one abattoir possibly
a unique situation for a major beef-
producing area.
The Centre had its railway and a ready
outlet in Adelaide. But the Top End
poor cattle country at the best of times
—was in a hillbilly state of development.
A few thousand skinny beasts were ship-
ped annually to Hong Kong. Those that
could stand the walk were syphoned off
to Wyndham and Queensland. Otherwise
everything stagnated.
On the Adelaide River plains, 40
miles from Darwin, are breeds of cattle
you would see nowhere else in the
world. A few are the genuine old Texas
Longhorns, beasts with great long legs,
huge heads, and small bodies like some
sort of horse. They run to skin and bone,
not beef. A decent kick would knock
them over.
The obvious needs, as Nott saw it,
were:
• Markets, to provide income for
• Herd control, through fencing; and
• Herd improvement, by influx of new
blood and growth of better pastures.
New abattoirs
Yearly this year two export abattoirs will
open in the Top End Northern
Meat Exporters’ at Katherine and Ves-
tey’s in Darwin.
Obviously major credit for the new
day dawning now for cattlemen of the
Far North must go to those who are
risking sweat and money in a harsh,
often unrewarding environment. Nott’s
achievement was in establishing a climate
for investment where entrepreneurs knew
that their finance was welcome, and
that they would receive all possible
assistance.
Several major companies bought sta-
tions, and are spending heavily on im-
provements. Nott and his experts hope


Announcing a rare
Pot Still Brandy, aged in
true Limousin Oak.
; Soft, delicate, very smooth.
Drawn from wood
in limited quantities.
FIENFOILBi
POT STILL.
BRANDY
» K <
BRANIIV
mm
•' W tFheibht EXPRESS
EVERYTHING GOES
AN SETT
HEIGHT
■J <PPESS
GETS THERE ON TIKE
MSB V r scheduled services to all capital cities. Co-ordinated
Em ME EEm E road, rail, sea and air transportation.
For further particulars phone:
Melbourne 68 0541 ■ Sydney 67 0533 • Adelaide 45 5337 • Canberra 4 6005
Brisbane 47 1481 • Perth 244926 ■ Tasmania—Devonport 2 2659
that income from the new abattoirs will
go towards building fences, planting fod-
der crops, beefing up herds.
Mining, too, has gone ahead jf
rather more slowly than fire-eaters like
Legislative Councillor “Tiger” Brennan
had hoped. The Mount Wells battery
finally got moving, starting a mild tin
rush in the hills round Pine Creek. Ten-
nant Creek continues as a major pro-
ducer of copper and gold. Rum Jungle
is assured of a further eight years of life
while treating stockpiled uranium; and
the Bureau of Mineral Resources is in-
vestigating phosphate deposits nearby.
Iron ore has been discovered at Bur-
rundie. Three companies are drilling for
oil, and, finally, there is the £45 million
bauxite project at Gove in Arnhem
Land, potentially the biggest thing the
North has seen since the overland tele-
graph line went through.
It would be foolish to give Roger Nott
credit for all this. Yet the fact remains
that during his term the Territory has
got moving again, even though feebly and
in fits and starts. A Tourist Board has
been established; a Freehold Titles Bill
of sorts passed, though not yet assented
to in Canberra. Nearly half a million
pounds has been spent on wharf im-
provements, and there is a Port Author-
ity to control handling of ships in Dar-
win Harbor. Even trial by jury has been
restored, and Territorians have proved
themselves mature enough these days oc-
casionally to find somebody guilty.
For the first time the Government
shows signs of going past the talking
stage in promotion of tuna and prawn
fishing industries. All this progress, mod-
est though it may be when measured
against what needs to be done, has been
accompanied by a building boom. Dar-
win has a £2 million power house, Alice
Springs a sewerage scheme. Tennant
Creek is on the verge of getting reticu-
lated water after years of carting the
stuff at a cost so high residents were said
to take their rum straight because they
“couldn’t afford water with it.”
Darwin has air-conditioned offices for
clerks and a new (not air-conditioned)
high school for the youngsters. A mod-
ern Supreme Court building is on the
way. Industry cannot be said to thrive,
but at least it rubs along rather better
than before. Even the humble croc
shooter is back in business.
The bugbear, as always, is agriculture.
One farming scheme after another has
failed in the Top End, from the Humpty
Doo fiasco right back to 1912 a year
after the Commonwealth took over the
area when Administrator Gilruth es-
tablished an Experimental Demonstration
Farm at Batchelor.
This was to have been a model for ag-
ricultural development of the North.
But an incredible number of minor dis-


asters brought the project to ruins. The
prize cattle developed tick fever; the dip
sent to cure them of tick poisoned them.
The train rushing antidote to their rescue
jumped the rails and shattered every
bottle of the drug.
When a bush fire approached the fowl
run the keeper was hopelessly drunk and
all the prize poultry were burnt. When
the sorghum crop was being harvested
the horse bolted and the harvesting
machine had to be written off.
The Government spent £30,000 on
clearing, stock, and machinery in-
cluding traction engines—and the erec-
tion of elaborate buildings. Every penny
went down the drain.
But the Batchelor farm did produce
something . . . one enormous pumpkin.
Old Territorians still smile grimly when
they tell you about the pumpkin that
cost £30,000. And even that was never
harvested by its rightful owner. A black-
fellow stole it and, finding it of no
use to him, left it to rot in the bush.
Territory agriculture has never amoun-
ted to much ... a few market gardeners
around Darwin, four share croppers
growing rice at Humpty Doo; twenty or
so families scratching a living along the
Katherine River out of peanuts, fodder
and vegetables.
One of the few success stories is that
of Charlie Dargie, who lives, of all
places, down on the Daly River, which
for 80 years has been a refuge for
happy-go-lucky hermits with a taste for
OP rum and what Territorians call “gin
burglary.” A paragon of industry among
that feckless band, Charlie Dargie was
always busy. He would sit in his bag
chair by the river of an evening, “nutting
out” one scheme after another. Peanut
farming . . . fishing for barramundi
... he tried them all never with
very much success. But a couple of
seasons back he began producing Towns-
ville lucerne seed, and it clicked. There
was a ready market, prosperity followed,
acres of the Territory’s Keep River coun-
try for cotton, linseed, safflower and rice.
Government research farms south of
Darwin are proving a variety of crops.
But all that aside, development over
the next five to ten years must depend
on the twin pillars of mining and cattle,
with a possible kick along from the ex-
panding tourist trade. Farming has a
long way to go before it can add mater-
ially to Territory revenue. Nott is op-
timistic about the future, but he recog-
nises that the road ahead will be long,
difficult and costly.
He acknowledges frankly that the
proportion of public servants in the popu-
lation is far too high. At least 70 p.c.
of the Territory’s 28,000 whites depend
directly on the Government for their
livelihood. If the Public Service pulled
out, Darwin would be a ghost town to-
morrow. Here is the rock on which all
the Legislative Council’s demands • for
increased self-government must founder.
This position is unlikely to change until
private enterprise becomes very much
more active than it is now.
It is more than a hundred years since
John McDouall Stuart struggled north
from Adelaide to the sea. Yet the white
man’s hand has touched lightly here.
The Territory’s future is obscure. Maybe
here is the beginning of a new State,
a living example of racial tolerance, where
black, white and brindle can live and
work in amity and prosperity.
Maybe, again, if we are too com-
placent or if our luck is out, the Terri-
tory will be the Trojan horse through
which resurgent Asia will make its way,
at last, on to the Australian continent.
Roger Nott can leave these broad is-
sues for others to ponder on. If he suc-
ceeds in his designated job of attracting
industry and population to the inhos-
pitable shores of the Arafura Sea he
will have done more for Australia than
a thousand pundits and criers of doom.
and today Charlie Dargie is King of
the Daly.
“A Sea of Apathy”
Asa practical farmer himself, Nott has
firm ideas on agriculture. He stresses
that the Top End of the Territory is a
difficult area. If it had been easier private
enterprise would have done the job of
settlement long ago. With his Director
of Agriculture, Bill Curteis, he believes
that the future for farming here lies in
concert with the pastoral industry, in
combined cultivation of fodder and cattle
fattening. Ideally, this could lead to a
year-round turnoff of fat cattle, some-
thing that is only a dream as yet in the
Far North.
A special “baby” of Nott’s is the
“pilot farm” scheme, recommended by
the Forster Committee report on Terri-
tory agriculture a few years back. Pro-
posals were put to Canberra for 10,000-
acre properties to test the economics
of combined fodder and cattle raising.
The idea was batted back and forth be-
tween various departments. There is talk
now of a mere three, to be established
sometime in the future. No one has any
dates or details. It may be that the obit-
uary on the pilot farm project lay in the
Forster report itself, which referred to
the danger that any worthwhile scheme
for development of the Territory could
sink into “a sea of apathy and
bureaucracy.”
Nott is confident there is a future in
the Far North for rice farming. The
Greater Ord Scheme will irrigate 120,000
1923
1933
1953
1963


OUT AND ABOUT
RIVIERA-ONCE AS ENGLISH
AS BOURNEMOUTH
A severe slump in the pornography trade ...
From MALCOLM MUGGERIDGE
Whoever thought of the term Cote
d'Azur (I believe it was a retired
civil servant living modestly in
Nice) pulled off one of the great adver-
tising coups of all times. The fact that
the Mediterranean, especially in the win-
ter months, is quite often not azure at all
matters no more than that Guinness is
quite often not good for you. Cote
d'Azur it is, and thither, year by year,
flock ever-growing numbers of fugitives
from harsher climates in search of the
sun. The winter clientele regard them-
selves as decidedly superior to the sum-
mer visitors. They mostly come in ample
motor cars; some with chauffeurs. Le
camping is impracticable, hitch-hikers are
rare, and it is the expensive hotels, like
the Hotel de Paris at Monte Carlo and
the Westminster at Menton, which
flourish, while the pensions and chambres
meublees languish. Rolls Royces abound
as perhaps nowhere else. One can even,
if one is watchful, catch a glimpse of
Mr Gulbenkian, bearded and serene.
Once this strip of barren coast was
almost as English as Bournemouth.
English churches and some libraries and
tea-shops precariously remain, and not
even de Gaulle, I suppose, would ven-
ture to change the Promenade des Ang-
lais in Nice to the Promenade des Alle-
mands; but now rich Germans, Italians,
Belgians and Scandinavians predominate,
Le Snack has replaced bifsteak a tout
heure and five o'clock tea; juke boxes
sound where once shabby violinists play-
ed Annie Laurie and When Irish Eyes
Are Smiling to rapt English visitors,
Fruit machines, or one-armed bandits,
are surfeited; it is in the salles privees
that customers are scarce. When the
winter sun shines it sometimes brings out
elderly English ladies dressed in the
fashions of half a century ago. Frail,
penurious ghosts who have somehow
survived the wars, revolutions and disas-
ters of our time, and still, with parasols
and large flopping hats, emerge to take
the air.
Monaco, one hears, is stricken. New
building is languishing. Mr Aristotle
Onassis may at any moment fold up his
tents and begone. Rumours of his im-
pending departure circulate wildly and
widely; each day the Monagasques are
surprised and relieved to see his majestic
yacht, Christina, still at anchor in their
harbour. Prince Rainier delivered a
powerful address to his National Council
(nominated) which served to unite the
two or three thousand Monagasque citi-
zens among them ex-king Farouk
in defence of life, liberty and the pursuit
of happiness. Then came a general elec-
tion, in which all candidates were anima-
ted by patriotic zeal. Yet, alas, French
obduracy has triumphed. Against a dis-
play of brute force in the form of frontier
police posts, what could brave little
Monaco do but submit and agree to pay
taxes? The bucket shops are closing down
all over Monaco and we shall not see
them open again in our time. Despite
these dramatic happenings, to my ignor-
ant eye the place looked very much the
same. Outside the ginger-bread palace of
Prince Rainier and Princess Grace the
tourists gather to watch the changing of
the guard. Large gleaming cars are ber-
thed in front of the Hotel de Paris. The
beauty parlour for dogs does good busi-
ness, and in the evenings round the tables
at the Casino a motley crowd assembles,
with a sprinkling of old stony-faced regu-
lars, who note down the course of the
play and follow systems; all under the
cold, insolent eye of the bored croupiers.
Each time they spin the wheel they seem
to be contrasting this sorry company and
their meagre stakes with a more glorious
past, when Russian Grand Dukes gambl-
ed whole estates away in a single evening.
Most days 1 walk round the Cap Mar-
tin. It was once owned, along with the
Congo and other real estate, by King
Leopold 1 of Belgium. Huge villas, some
oi them decidedly decayed, look seawards.
One by one they are being restored, with
swimming pools, passages cut through
the rock down to the sea, and other
amenities. In the Common Market are
many mansions. With all the talk of
economic equality, high taxation and in-
flation, the rich in our time have grown
richer and richer. It has been a golden
age for millionaires, as is superstitiously
recognised in the United States, where
nowadays only millionaires need apply
for the highest offices. In the winter
months along the Cote d'Azur , there are
also plenty of penurious residents, who
disappear or go to ground when summer
sunshine packs the beaches with bodies
turning from white to a raw red and then
to brown. They are out-of-season folk,
nondescript old people living out their
days in meagre rooms within the sound
of the Mediterranean. The public ceme-
teries are full of them; stateless, penniless
and aged; like Bakunin, described on their
death certificates as rentiers for want of


jn y other appellation. French function-
's often migrate southwards from
jotumn to spring; to economize on heat-
jng5 and many pieds noirs have arrived
pth whatever they could salvage from
Algeria. The migration is instinctive, as
w ith birds to a desolate shore which has
50 industry or agriculture to disconcert
the aimless and the idle. Even the steeply
t er raced vineyards and olive groves are
being abandoned; there is more money to
be made selling postcards to tourists, or
serving rich old ladies who grow lecherous
alone in their villas. A desolate shore like
a DP camp-de-luxe; sparkling with lights,
alive with traffic; new buildings constant-
ly rising, and each square metre ever
more precious. An over-developed or
forward area if ever there was one. There
may not always be an England, but surely
there will always be a Promenade des
Anglais.
Frank Harris or James Bond?
ITnder de Gaulle, France is being
D rapidly transformed into a dictator-
ship. The Press is even more regimented
than in other parts of the “Free World.”
Newspapers, once for sale to foreign
governments, now receive subventions
only from their own. Television and the
radio are wholly governmental. An inter-
view with Khrushchev, on the occasion
of the 20th Anniversary of the Battle of
Stalingrad was scrapped because he made
some observations about the recent
Franco-German Treaty which were un-
palatable to de Gaulle. The French
police, never notable for scrupulosity,
have a freer hand than at any time since
the days of the Vichy regime. Despite
an adverse vote in the Senate, the life
of the military court set up to deal with
the OAS has been protracted. It has the
advantage, from the Government’s point
of view, of precluding any appeal against
its judgments. Giraudoux’s son, an
eminent member of the wartime Resis-
tance, is on trial for making derogatory
remarks about de Gaulle. Such things
ire scantily reported, if at all. As for the
Assembly, it has just dispersed until April
without any statement of government
Policy being presented to it. Nobody
reems to mind much. If they did, it is
difficult to see what they could do about
!t ' Freedom is of as little concern on our
S| de of the Iron Curtain as Communism
s °n the other. Were sit not that the
Russians behave so odiously to their
satellites as to create anti-communism,
®d the Americans so odiously to theirs
as fo create Communism, the Cold War
Would die of inanition.
De Gaulle, of course, wins his referen-
ts, and is likely to go on doing so. As
"dh Mussolini in the earlier phases of
fascist regime, the economic stability
order that he has provided, com-
pared with the confusion of the Fourth
Republic, very understandably suits a
great many people. Also, they greatly
appreciate the thought that he is consider-
ed a pain in the neck in Washington and
London, though without necessarily ap-
proving of the policies which have made
him so. I remember reflecting, when we
first went into France in the war, that
it would take the French a long time
to forgive the Americans and British for
liberating them. Even then they were
liable to compare our behaviour un-
favourably with that of the Germans we
replaced. De Gaulle has helped them
to work off this grudge. Is he popular?
I do not myself see how it is possible to
know today whether anyone is popular
or not. Mass communications so easily
simulate manifestations of popularity.
Everything suggested, during his lifetime,
that Stalin was popular. Now we are
told that he was universally detested. This
might be untrue, too. Who knows? What
can be said of de Gaulle (as, indeed, it
could have been said of Stalin) is that
he is in charge in France as no one has
been since Napoleon. This is bound to
send him mad, if it has not done so
already.
Riviera pornography is old-fashioned;
Frank Harris rather than James Bond, the
Marquis de Sade rather than Lady
Chatterley; vintage Tauchnitz volumes,
collectors’ pieces. With the growing lati-
tude in England and America this trade
will presumably perish. Its promoters
must look with anguish at each lenient
judgment, and perhaps wax indignant
over the deterioration in morals they
betray. Yet another treasure may soon
be snatched from them. Henry Miller’s
Tropic of Cancer, already on free sale
throughout most of the United States, is
shortly to be published in England by
John Calder. After legal proceedings
under the Jenkins Act, it will doubtless
be admitted as suitable adult reading.
French newspapers have given some
prominence to the Quakers’ report on
sex. It is the kind of thing the French
find some incomprehensible, like cricket,
and therefore intriguing. The idea of per-
missive adultery and pre-marital indul-
gence representing a novel of up-to-date
moral attitude strikes them as bizarre
beyond words; its connection with the
Christian religion and Pauline ethics as
elusive. One tries to explain that the
Quakers, as Christians, are rather distinc-
tive; virtuous without being worldly, self-
denying without being ascetic, pros-
perous without being avaricious. One used
to see them, one explains, wandering
about Stalinist Russia and praising the
Lord. Chocolate, their speciality, provides
an image. It is wholesome, nourishing,
and, up to a point, stimulating. Why not,
then, chocolate sex; slab or assorted, nut-
milk or plain? The point is not taken.
Sex, to the French, remains pleasurable
or humorous. They cannot grasp it as a
duty. The wrongs of homosexuals con-
demned to seek their pleasures in public
lavatories, which so harrowed the
Quakers, leave them cold. Perhaps, in
this respect, too, they will change, and
come, like the Quakers, to set more store
by Doctor Kinsey than by Les Liaisons
Dangereuses.
FILM-MAKING IN A
PYMBLE PADDOCK
With £600 and some self-assurance
By CHARLES HIGHAM
On a budget of £6OO raised from
people advancing £lO each
a Sydney University student, 19-
year-old Dick Brennan, is currently
shooting his second film, “Lend Me Your
Stable,” on location in Sydney. In the
tradition of fierce Sydney film aficion-
ados, he and his colleagues on the pro-
duction are deeply engaged in the
cinerm*, prepared to rattle off strings of
nam« of cameramen, directors, set
designers at the drop of a hat, deter-
minedly prejudiced and breezy. In all
this, they are strikingly different from
their American counterparts whom I
have found “sick,” proudly neurotic and
“beat,” and their English ones, whose
wounding snobbishness and icily super-
cilious cliquishness is oceans removed
from the Australians’ naivete and
optimism. Greatly to their credit,
several would-be film directors here
have stopped moaning about lack of
State support and “Establishment” in-
difference, and have raised the money
on their own account, directing films that
may not make history, but serve the very
useful purpose of showing how these
young men think in cinematic terms.
Rather startlingly self-assured for his
years, Brennan gave me a brief run-
down on previous film-making efforts
among students here. There had been
the Sydney University Film Group’s


film of a weekend conference a few
years ago (though inevitably scrappy, it
had an enjoyable zest and pace), and
another I recalled seeing, about Com-
memoration Week. Then there was Bruce
Beresford's “The Devil to Pay,” bought
by TCN and screened last year—a chase
story with a brief, exciting sequence shot
on Sydney Harbor Bridge. The success
of this, and of the much-admired “The
Prize,” made in Melbourne by Pat Ryan
and Tim Burstall, encouraged Brennan,
who had worked as production manager
on Beresford’s picture. (Beresford is
working on another film and his “Devil
to Pay” has been accepted as a thesis
for a scholarship by the University of
Southern California, weaning-place for
future film talent).
For the Sydney University Film
Group, Brennan last year finished “The
Face,” from a story by Stephen Crane,
“The Upturned Face,” about a group of
Confederate soldiers burying their cap-
tain. In Brennan’s version, an added
twist has been given by showing that the
soldiers are also destined to dig their
own graves. “The script was done by
John Flaus,” Brennan said, “who dis-
covered Crane’s story. We’ve got some
interesting compositions showing the
seven men standing around the grave
in the middle of nowhere you get the
sense of their complete isolation.
“Our biggest problem, of course, was
the clothing of the men. Then I heard
about a man who incredibly ran some-
thing called the Civil War Research
Society. He was supposed to keep all
kinds of relics of the War. He works as
a maintenance man on the Harbor
Bridge and he’s only available from 12
noon to 12.05 and 4 p.m. to 4.05. We
got everything we wanted from him,
even to boots, hats, bandoliers, pistol
cases, badges . . . and pistols from
Paddy’s Market.
“We shot the film with a borrowed
horse in the Pymble Presbyterian Ladies’
College paddock. It took 18 months be-
cause the unit was only available at
weekends and it rained every weekend.
In all, we only did 12 days shooting.”
“The Face” somehow got finished. Now
being edited, it would be shown later
this year. And what of the new film,
“Lend Me Your Stable?”
“The title comes from an anonymous
Latin American poem,” Brennan said,
“which symbolises the loneliness of
people who can’t connect. The story is
about a narcissistic youth, who’s shiftless,
secretive, rootless, with no interest in
other people. He meets a girl very much
like himself. She is already involved with
a supercilious, bovine worker. The story
develops out of the tension between the
two lonely, self-admiring people and the
other man. Finally, the two men leave
the girl to herself which is all she
really wants and discover friendship
for each other.”
The melancholy, ironical flavor of
Brennan’s films bodes well. Far removed
from the rather callow bounciness of
previous local film efforts, his films seem
to have at least on paper an un-
usual penetration below the surface. At
19, he seems to have not only a f or
midable knowledge of film history, but
some good ideas on how to use the
medium. With £6OO and great personal
assurance, his activities bode well for
the future.
KING OF THE HORRORS
"I saw a gigantic fat woman in the street ..."
By GUY ANSTRUTHER
T>orn 48 years ago to an umbrella-sales-
man named Schloss, William Castle
—in Australia for the world premiere of
his film “The Candy Web” —is the most
interesting Hollywood visitor we have had
for some time.
Extraordinary, even in this period of
rewarding arrivals (Dame Edith Sitwell
and Noel Coward are on the way) to
meet a man who worked with Orson
Welles on the legendary “War of the
Worlds” radio programme, directed much
of Welles’ masterpiece, “The Lady From
Shanghai” (and collaborated on its script),
directed that minor masterpiece of the
1940’s “When Strangers Marry,” and has
now become America’s most successful
producer of horror films (“Macabre,”
“The House on Haunted Hill,” “The
Tingler”).
Massive, flourishing a cigar, a cross
between an outsize cherub and Lee J.
Cobb, Castle is noted for his engagingly
outrageous promotion stunts: skeletons
rattling over the audience’s heads in mid-
performance, small dynamos under the
seats making the customers tingle, offers
of huge sums to the family of anyone
dying of fright during the show. Talking
of his career in a series of exclamatory
sentences (“I saw a gigantic fat woman
in the street! I thought, J , maybe
I’ll do a story about a fat woman! Get
it out of your mind you lazy son of a
bitch!”), sprinkling compliments on Syd-
ney from his 11th storey hotel window,
he could easily be a Wellesian character
himself, one-third sideshow busker, one-
third movie buff and one-third genuine
artist.
Castle said that ideas for films struck
him forcibly, he’d become obsessed by
them for months, then he’d suddenly find
the key to the plot, drop everything and
prepare a blueprinted script with a writer
say Robert (“Psycho”) Bloch or Robb
White. As with Hitchcock, his produc-
tions are thoroughly planned in advance
so that the actual time of shooting—and
the budget—can be cut to the minimum.
His widely-liked “When Strangers
Marry,” praised by Welles and the late
James Agee, was done for the incredibly
small sum of 50,000 dollars, about one-
seventh the cost of Flaherty's “Louisiana
Story.” And his horror films have gross-
ed many times their cost. Today, William
Castle is a well-fed millionaire in whom,
one suspects, a thin young artist is still
struggling to be let out.
How had he met Robb White, the
celebrated screenwriter of all Castle’s
early horror films? “Well, Robb had
written a book. About an island he and
his wife had bought for 100 dollars. I
wanted him to work with me and we did
some teleplays—he learned fast. I want-
ed to do my first commercial horror pic-
ture ‘Macabre’ and needed some money.
Robb asked me, how much did I need?
I said one hundred thousand dollars. He
wrote a cheque. After that, he worked
for me.”
Of all the films Castle and White did
together—all of which netted fortunes—
he agreed that “The Tingler” was the
most imaginative. The idea of a parasite
in the human body which detaches itself
in moments of unexpressed fear and runs
riot in public places had a truly Wellesian
audacity, stemming from Poe and Theo-
dore Sturgeon The idea, Castle said, had
come to him when, after swimming, he
had lain in bed with severe pains in his
back; during a dream, he had imagined
part of his spine becoming detached
prowling about like a centipede. It was a
vision Poe would certainly have enjoyed.
Will the King of the B Pictures be
making anything in Australia? Probably
only money, but there is one subject one
can see appealing to him The Shark
Arm Case. One can already see the Wil-
liam Castle opening: children gathered
round an aquarium tank, gaping
pointing at a shark executing a strange
dance, spewing up a human arm with a
face tattooed on it. . . Over to y° u >
Schloss.


WHEN YOU USE POWER, GOODYEAR MAKES WHAT YOU NEED
11OJ
&
s
m
tm
m
m
■
When you choose industrial rubber products durability
is of prime importance. Illustrated are seven striking
examples of the lasting qualities of Goodyear products.
But that is only part of the story. The
choice of a Goodyear product may
begin with many other aspects of its
use: extreme temperature conditions;
the need to withstand prolonged ex-
posure to weather; an unusual use
calling for a special design.
Goodyear meets such demands with
unrivalled world-wide experience in
industrial rubber. It comes to you
through the G.T.M. (Goodyear Tech-
nical Man). He is trained to give you
immediate, expert advice on any pro-
blem, and he is as near as your tele-
phone. When you need the answer to
a question about rubber, call him, or
write to the Goodyear branch in your
State.
Specified
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS
More industry relies on Goodyear industrial
Products than on any other kind
GOODYEAR
w ■
km
I s
w
This Goodyear V-belt delivers up to
100 horsepower, maintaining the
water supply of a W.A. town —•
frequently under heatwave condi-
tions. It’s a job calling for the
utmost reliability—the sort of job
Goodyear is chosen for.
Hoisting a ton of rock every minute
is a tough job, but it’s a job handled
with ease by a Goodyear Bucket
Elevator belt at this Queensland
crushing plant.
m
Goodyear air hose solved the prob-
lem for one of. Australia’s largest
cement producers who wanted a hoso
that could stand rugged handling
and still deliver 100% performance.
m
fife!
Impact after impact but never a
sign of loading dock damage. Good-
year rubber fendering protects
vehicles, too, in this 200 feet loading
dock.
m.
c-
m
m
■
Frequent replacement of rope mat
fenders was a costly problem until
this harbour tug was fitted with
tough, abrasion-resistant, resilient
Goodyear rubber fenders.
«• m
Australia's greatest sugar lift at
Mackay, Queensland, is handled by
Goodyear conveyor belts. They stand
up to the assault of 650 tons an
hour.
C264D


JOURNALISTS BEFORE THE HOUSE OF LORDS
After the Vassall Case
From PATRICK O'DONOVAN in London
The spectacle of the law at work has
its band of followers as devoted
as that for the bullring. And at
times the appeal of the two spectacles is
not dissimilar.
A man fighting for his life or freedom
in an atmosphere of grave courtesy and
ritual, surrounded by intelligent and
learned men extending themselves to de-
fend or convict him, and the final great
moment when the sword either falls or
is lifted—the spectacle can compel a fas-
cinated interest: it is not necessarily a
very noble sort of interest.
There are other attractions. There is
the purely intellectual one of watching
the law in action, a process that is both
interpretative and creative. There is the
off-chance of catching a blinding row
between the lawyers themselves, of seeing
a judge cheeked within the rules, of see-
ing a counsel crushed under a full-bot-
tomed rebuke.
But the case in London of the two
journalists, Messrs Mulhoiland and Fos-
ter, committed to prison for contempt of
court for refusing to disclose their sourc-
es for stories on the Vassall spy case,
was not of that titillating sort. The pro-
tagonists were not there. In an upper
corridor of the House of Lords, rich and
warm and carpeted, a little group waited
outside a committee room. There were
a few counsel and a few men and women
who were unmistakably of the Press.
Attendants in tail-coats and gold chains
presided. There was the barking of an
order. Three ageing men in ordinary
suits walked, redolent of authority, mak-
ing a procession of it, into the room.
The rest followed and sat about on heavy
crimson chairs.
The judges sat at a U-shaped table
behind low barricades of books. The
counsel arranged themselves around the
intricate pattern of tables. Mr Gerald
Gardiner, QC, stood in the centre.
There then began a grave and measur-
ed dialogue between Mr Gardiner and
Lord Reid. It concerned the case of the
two journalists, but it was not even a
trial. It was an application for the right
to appeal to the House of Lords.
It concerned, of course, the right of
journalists to withhold their sources of
information from tribunals and courts.
The right has often been granted tacitly
in the pragmatic English manner. But
now it is clear that the journalist has the
rights of a private citizen only, and in-
deed, in view of the special intensity and
sometimes animosity with which the law
of libel is sometimes visited on him, he
could be said to have rights that are a
little less than those of the ordinary citi-
zen.
But the practice of his trade enjoins on
a journalist that he, at least, recognise
this “privilege,” which is also a duty. It
is accepted that politicians and diplomats
have a right to pass information to which
their names and ranks will never be at-
tached. This discretion is an absolute
inhibition on the journalist.
Institutions such as the Foreign Office
work continually on the basis of the re-
liability of the journalists they serve with
information. There are a number of
labels that can be attached to informa-
tion, from “not for attribution” to “off
the record” to “background only” to “I'm
afraid you can’t use this, old boy, but
. . And a journalist breaks any of
these at the peril of drying his source up
for ever into a resentful siience.
These curious but useful gradations,
extend to all branches of the trade.
Foreign correspondents with embassies,
political correspondents with MPs, dip-
lomatic correspondents with under-sec-
retaries, White House correspondents
with the New Frontier crime correspon-
dents with the police, art correspondents
with the galleries, all get told things that
they cannot spell out in full because if
they did the news might be given a pain-
ful personal significance or a man’s
career ruined.
Under the most glittering temptation
to get a story and beat his colleagues,
the journalist tends to be self-disciplined
in at least this respect. His discipline
comes from both pride and self-interest.
Again in my own experience, public men
treat the Press less honestly than the
Press treats them. It is one cause of our
lamentable cynicism.
It is also true that the Press in other
circumstances does not hesitate to rip
open private lives and murder the char-
acters of men and women who have
offended only by being, perhaps tempor-
arily, celebrities. No one would offer a
blanket defence of the British Press to-
day. It seems likely that the Press will
in the end look shabby when the details
of the Vassall Tribunal are known. But
these sad facts do not affect the “privi-
lege.”
The law at the end of the brief hearing
spoke quite clearly. The appeal was not
allowed. The journalist has no privilege,
What this may mean for the future is
uncertain. The two clearly did the right
and only possible thing. They won their
sentences very honorably. It is possible
that the former tacit, pragmatic unwill-
ingness to test the journalist’s honor may
reassert itself. If it does not, then Bri-
tain is in for a poorer, thinner and less
important Press. And only a few men of
power and impatience would want that.
★ ★ ★
HHhe policy adopted in the- Mulholland-
A Foster case is definitely a departure
from traditional British policy. For
example, in 1887 The Times publish-
ed the famous series of articles on “Par-
nellism and Crime”. One statement was
that Mr Dillon, speaking in the House of
Commons, had untruly charged The
Times with falsehood.
A Tory member raised the matter as
a question of privilege. What followed
appears from the autobiography of Sir
Edward Clarke, who was then Solicitor-
General. He heard that it was proposed
to accede to the motion for a Select Com-
mittee. He burst into the meeting of
Ministers concerned. Here is his own
account: —
They invited me to speak, and l said
a good many words in a very short time.
I pointed out what would inevitably hap-
pen: that the first witness called would
be the editor of “The Times”; that he
would be called upon to state the names
of his contributors and his informants;
that questions would be asked which he
certainly would refuse to answer; that
every such refusal and every controversy
arising in the Committee would at once
be brought up in the House and be dis-
cussed as a matter of privilege. I urged
that no unanimous report could ever be
expected, and that the whole work oj
the session would be broken up- To my
great delight they gave way, revokes
their decision, and sent me into the
House to move the amendment, whic *
was eventually carried by 317 to 233.
The clear inference is that, in the view
of Sir Edward Clarke which was accepte
by his colleagues, the editor of The Times
would have been justified in his refusal.


OVERSEAS
PRESIDENT SOEKARNO AND
THE COMMUNISTS
By DONALD HINDLEY
Formerly of the Australian National University
FOUNDED in 1920, the Indonesian Communist Party (Partai Kommunis Indonesia
or PKI) is the world’s largest Communist Party outside the Sino-Soviet bloc
and is Asia’s oldest. In a country comprising 3000 islands and 100,000,000
people the PKI boasts a membership of 2,000,000 and an additional 11,000,000 in
mass front organisations. The PKI is well represented in Indonesia’s Parliament,
deputy governors of three of Java’s four provinces are Communists and Communist
leaders Aidit and Lukman both have semi-Cabinet status. And yet . . . and yet, as
this article from the American Political Science Review states, there are doubts that
the PKI will take over Indonesia either by popular demand, through democratic
processes or by coup d’etat. There are even signs that the PKI, despite its
tremendous size, may discounting unforeseeable changes in Indonesia itself
lose its unity and its power.
OBSTACLES TO COMMUNIST
VICTORY
after five years of the close
alliance, PKI seems as far as, or
further than, ever from winning power.
Two basic and related reasons account
for this: the strengthening and entrench-
ment of the army, and what I term the
domestication of PKI.
The strengthening and entrenchment
of the army has been a process that
Soekarno has been unable to prevent,
and one which his policies have in-
directly encouraged. His insistence on
the military defeat of the PRRI-Permesta
rebellion improved the fighting ability of
the army and strengthened the control
of General Nasution, then army chief
of staff, over what had been a loosely
integrated national army. The West Irian
campaign necessitated the enlargement
and modernisation of the armed forces;
large purchases of modern equipment
have been made, especially from the
USSR-, and the army now contains over
300,000 troops. Soekarno’s declaration
of a state of war and siege in March,
1957, at the time when he was preparing
to install the Djuanda Cabinet, conferred
wide powers on the army over admini-
stration and political life—powers which
the army has not relinquished.
The Soekarno-inspired workers’ seizure
of all Dutch enterprises in December,
1957, enabled the army to take over the
administration of those enterprises in
the name of order and production. And
Soekarno’s restoration of the 1945 con-
stitution in July, 1959, and his im-
plementation of “guided democracy”
gave the army a legitimate and formal
part in the Government, whereas pre-
viously it had exerted influence from
behind the scenes. Seven army officers
received posts in the Presidential Cabinet
appointed in July, 1959, army officers
received seats in the appointed Parlia-
ment announced in June, 1960, and in
the local and regional councils appointed
at the end of that year, and army officers
have been appointed as governors of
several provinces.
Time has been another factor in the
strengthening of the army. General
Nasution, though he has lately given up
the post of army chief of staff, has re-
tained the Ministry of Defence, with a
protege as chief of staff. Counting both
posts, he has been in command of the
army continuously since October, 1955.
He has had the interval since then to
weed out from important positions the
officers he considers less than trust-
worthy.
As for the domestication of PKI,
Soekarno has eradicated Masjumi and
PSI, the only two parties that dared to
oppose him openly and consistently, and
he has successfully tamed the remaining
political parties, including PKI.
Within the other major partner in the
Government, the army, many officers
apparently would like to be rid of all
political parties, and especially PKI. In
this, they have been thwarted by
Soekarno, who needs the parties in his
power struggle with the army. But the
army has been Soekarno’s eager partner
in the policy of domesticating the parties,
especially PKI, the greatest potential
threat to the present ruling groups.
DOMESTICATION
Domestication in the context of
Soekarno’s policy towards PKI con-
tains two main elements. One is the pro-
tection of PKI and its mass organisations
from above-ground extinction; that is,


MIDDY'S SHOUT
"Darling, our union's been blessed with issue!"
. . As a child I felt unwanted."
"I'd have used more alizarin crimson."


>!/ FRENCH
H, TH IS EASY way
*»
No textbook can tcacli juu 10 SPEAK a foreign language
correctly. To do that, you must HEAR the rhythm, the
lilt, the everyday speech by ordinary people. Lingua-
phone teaches you by this quick, thorough, effortless
method. You learn by LISTENING to the voices of
expert native teachers on gramophone records, following
the words in the illustrated textbook. In half the usual
time, this method enables you to SPEAK, READ and
WRITE the language—and above all. to understand it
when spoken. There is no formal learning. From the
start you are thrown into the conversational atmosphere
of the boulevard and cafe
I’ut in fifteen min-
utes a day, and in
a few weeks you
can express yourself
freely in the lan-
guage of your
choice. Find out all
about the unique,
modern method of
learning. Post the
coupon below for a
free illustrated
booklet describing the Linguaphone language courses
and Week's Free Trial Offer.
Linguaphone
For LANGUAGES
POST THIS TODAY— -
I.inguaphone Institute Pty. Ltd., 1 Fleming Place, off
359 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me without obligation your free, illustrated
booklet of the Linguaphone method of learning languages.
I am interested in FRENCH Q] HERMAN Q] ITALIAN Q]
SPANISH □
or
NAME ..
ADDRESS
(34 languages available)
B. 23/3/63
ihe preservation of their legality and of
at least a limited freedom of overt
activities. The other is the creation of
effective blocks to PKl’s possible assump-
tion of power, so that the Party provides
Soekarno with support but cannot exploit
the alliance towards its own major goal,
hvhich is governmental power. Such a
policy is only possible if one of the two
allies wields greater power or is consider-
ably shrewder than the other.
On the record so far, Soekarno is both;
he is not only an extremely able
politician, but as the leading force in a
governmental coalition he can use the
Government’s coercive powers to compel
PKI to either accept the situation or
break the alliance. It is not his interest
!o coerce PKI too far, for if the alliance
were broken his own position vis-a-vis
Ihe army would be greatly weakened;
Iherefore the process of domestication
has been gradual, and PKI and its mass
(organisations have been allowed to ex-
pand. On the other hand, PKI has felt
obliged to accept the risks of domestica-
tion because a break with Soekarno
would bring down severe governmental
repression, which PKI could hardly
survive.
At the beginning of the alliance there
were broadly four ways by which PKI
might conceivably have been able to
achieve power. The first was infiltration
of the armed forces and the bureaucracy.
The second was by parliamentary means,
by skilful use of the then existing parlia-
mentary system in which the Cabinet was
(responsible to Parliament. Through
electoral and therefore parliamentary
strength PKI might have aspired to form
its own government, or might have
secured Communist inclusion in a
coalition government as the first step to-
wards the seizure of power.
The third was the development ot
existing cadres and members into a force
capable of seizing power. And the fourth
was by acclamation; that is, the politically
conscious Indonesians might have turned
to PKI as the only group capable and
worthy of ruling, after all other groups
had demonstrated their inability to solve
the major problems facing Indonesia.
These alternative possibilities are worth
examining in turn.
As a means of achieving power, infil-
tration could be ruled out as a practical
Possibility in 1957, and the same applies
today. PKI has gained very little support
among the officers of the armed forces,
and it appears that since 1956 General
htasution has gradually removed the few
Pro-Communist army officers from posi-
tions of influence. It also appears that
the officers retain the respect and obedi-
ence of the lower ranks. The Indonesian
bureaucracy, too, like white-collar groups
ln general, has proved surprisingly resis-
tant to PKI so that the Party commands
little support among public servants in
strategic positions. Since January, 1948,
no Communist has had control of a
Ministry. The two PKI members of the
Cabinet, appointed on March 9, 1962,
have been given positions without port-
folio: they do not sit in the regular meet-
ings of Cabinet; and their status is that
of advisers on economic matters and on
measures for the liberation of West Irian.
In the September, 1955, elections for
Parliament PKI emerged as the fourth
party, with 6.2 million votes or 16.4 per
cent of the total. In the local and regional
elections held in Java in the second half
of 1957, PKI received 27.4 per cent of
the votes. Communist leaders, perhaps
purposely understating their strength lest
alarm provoke counter-measures, esti-
mated they would receive about 25 per
cent of the votes in the second national
parliamentary elections scheduled for Sep-
tember, 1959.
On such a showing, if these elections
had been held and if the parliamentary
system had been maintained, PKI would
have emerged as the largest or second
largest party in Parliament and so would


have been in a strong bargaining position
in the formation of a Cabinet, if it were
settled by the usual processes of inter-
party bargaining. However, this prospect
has been completely removed. In Sep-
tember, 1958, the Government announc-
ed that the 1959 elections would be post-
poned for one year, and when that time
was up they were postponed again. They
were put off once more in 1962. Mean-
while. Parliament is now appointed and
its power destroyed.
Rule by decree
July 5, 1959, President Soekarno
decreed the restoration of the 1945
constitution an action that PKI very
reluctantly accepted after the elected
Constituent Assembly had failed to reach
an agreement on a new constitution.
Under the 1945 constitution the Cabinet
is chosen by the President and is not
responsible to Parliament. Furthermore,
Soekarno has taken advantage of the
loose wording of that constitution to rule
largely by decree, and so bypass Parlia-
ment. When Parliament from December.
1959. to March, 1960, demanded at least
control of the budget, Soekarno decreed
its dissolution and in June, 1960, ap-
pointed a new one. He has made quite
clear that he will tolerate neither opposi-
tion nor major criticism from Parliament,
nor from the several advisory councils
that he has appointed since July, 1959.
At the end of 1960, Soekarno also “re-
tooled" the local, and regional councils,
and replaced them by appointed bodies.
Their executive committees, too, are now
nominated by the Government, as are the
regional and local district heads.
In short, it must have been fairly clear
to the PKI leaders by 1955 at the latest
that they had little hope of winning power
through the infiltration of the army and
the bureaucracy. The army’s direct in-
volvement in government from late 1956
onwards, followed by the re-enactment
of the 1945 constitution, Soekarno’s rapid
removal of Parliament’s limited powers
under that constitution and the increas-
ingly authoritarian nature of the regime,
all showed that the parliamentary road
to power was also closed. Hence, shortly
after Soekarno’s assumption of the office
of Prime Minister in July, 1959, only two
ways were left by which PKI might aspire
to power: the development of the exist-
ing or enlarged support into a force
capable of seizing power (by the use or
threat of force), and the elevation of the
Party by acclamation.
By the middle of 1957, as already
noted, PKI claimed a membership of
over 1 million, while the Communist
mass organisations claimed about 7i
million. If these members or even a
small proportion of them could have been
trained to a higher level of revolutionary
discipline and class consciousness, then
the PKI leaders might have had at their
disposal a force capable of capturing
power even against the forceful opposi-
tion of the non-Communists. But the
PKI leaders have been unable to develop
such a force from their mass support for
two basic reasons: one that may be called
built-in obstacles, and the other, preven-
tive government action.
Few members of the Indonesian poli-
tical elite, armed forces or bureaucracy,
have been attracted to Communism. The
PKI leaders have therefore been forced
to seek and build support among the
poorer segments of society: the peasants,
the workers and the “petty bourgeoisie”
In Indonesia, however, and especially
in Java where for a complex of reasons
PKI found the readiest support, the
poorer people are essentially passive in
face of the wealthier and ruling groups
and even in face of the problems which
press most directly upon them. Partly as
a result of this passive nature, and of the
overwhelming superiority in power (that
is, ability to coerce and repress) of the
non-Communist ruling groups, the Aidit
leadership of PKI in late 1951 and early
1952 decided that large numerical sup-
port was essential if PKI was to win
power from the incumbent ruling groups.
Consequently the leadership formulat-
ed a broad national united-front strategy
capable of amassing the necessary sup-
port. The two essential elements of this
strategy were painstaking but “limit-con-
scious” work among the poorer social
groups, and friendship toward the internal
non-Communist political groups. These
two elements were mutually dependent.
Without the image of PKI as patriotic,
sympathetic to religion, opposed to the
use of force in the achievement of its
goals, attached to democracy, moderate
in demands, friendly toward the non-
Communist political forces, and generally
responsible in the exercise of the role of
non-governing party, the Party could have
won neither the sympathy of the broad
masses of poorer people nor the tolera-
tion of ruling groups towards PKl’s
organisational activities.
Thus, since early in 1952 PKI has in-
creased its membership from under 8,000
to about 2 millions, and has educated its
new and old members in the strategy of
the broad national united front. Typical
slogans devised by the Aidit leadership
for Party members have been “national
interest above class and Party interests ”
“national unity above all else,” and “the
basic contradiction is between the people
and imperialism.”
Alliance has been sought with the non-
Communist political groups, from Soe-
karno through PNI to the conservative
Moslem NU, and with social groups rang-
ing from the “national bourgeoisie”
through the devout Moslems, even to the
“patriotic landlords”. That is, under the
Aidit strategy, Party members and cadres
have not been educated to militant action
against internal enemies, with some ex-
ceptions such as the regionalist councils
established in 1956 and 1957.
Despite the great change in the In-
donesian political situation during and
since 1956 and 1957, PKI has not alter-
ed its basic strategy; it has adapted the
strategy to the new situation. To alter
the strategy would have been very diffi-
cult. First, a switch to a policy of hostility
to “class enemies” would have alienated a
large part of the mass support which is
unprepared for such hostility.
Second, a radical switch would prob-
ably have caused a major division among
Party cadres and members, where
since 1951 there had been a unity un-
equalled in any other major Communist
party. And third, a switch could have
brought down severe Government repres-
sion, as it had in September, 1948, rep-
ression for which the Party was unprepar-
ed after many years of the Aidit strategy.
In other words, the PKI leaders were and
are faced with a dilemma: their strategy
has certainly achieved mass support, but
at the same time it has created a party
incapable of seizing power, apart from
winning it by the parliamentary road, a
road no other fraternal party has yet
traversed successfully.
Preventive measures. The Government
has been careful to restrict the opportunity
for PKI and its mass organisations to
develop militancy among their members.
Two broad categories of restrictions have
been applied: general threats, and specific
controls.
A controlled Press
Qoekarno and the army have success-
fully controlled the Press in Indo-
nesia, including the Communist Press, so
that it supports the Government on all
major issues, and dares utter no more
than the most minor criticisms. The
Communists have been even more
cautious in their publications than some
non-Communists because they know that
the army is ready to suspend their now
limited publications on the slightest
excuse.
As we have noted, the A'dit leadership
of PKI has been restrained in the en-
couragement and promotion of militant


action by its mass support in part
because the Indonesian poorer classes are
unprepared for such action, and in part
j because the Communists require the
| Government’s toleration of their organis-
, ational activities. However, PKI and its
j mass organisations attempt to increase
1 the political consciousness and militancy
I of their supporters by stepping gradually
from “small but successful” actions (such
as a demand for the distribution of work
clothes in a factory, or for payment for
peasant sharecroppers who carry the
landlords’ share from the fields) to the
point where workers dare openly oppose
employers, peasants oppose landlords,
j and both oppose the authorities.
I This practical training in actions of
s increasing scope is of supreme import-
ance in Indonesia, and especially in Java
j where most PKI support lies, because
• the lower social strata have no tradition
of nor experience in such actions. The
| lower social strata are, in general, devoid
I of any belief in the short or long-term
efficacy of their own action in removing
social and economic inequalities. It is
; even true that, in general, the Indonesian
poor still need much convincing that
inequalities are unjust and removable,
1 and not predestined and unchangeable by
j man. The Indonesian ruling groups, in-
cluding Soekarno, the army, and the
Civil Service, have been prompt to pre-
vent their poorer compatriots from
acquiring practical experience in the
efficacy of united action in the general
political, the labor and the peasant fields.
PKI had also hoped, as earlier noted,
that the maintenance of Soekarno as the
leading force in the Government would
lead to a Government emphasis on anti-
colonial agitation and to the neglect of
the economy. This has happened, but
PKI has been prevented from unduly
exploiting either nationalist feeling or
popular dissatisfaction with the deteriora-
ting economic situation. Whatever the
legal powers held by the central war
administration and the regional war ad-
ministrators over the activities of the
political parties, the mass organisations,
and the populace in general, in practice
the administrators take the power to deal
more or less severely with activities
deemed detrimental to the Government
as a whole, or to its various main com-
ponents.
Strict measures
the end of 1959 and in January,
1960, the Communists had a ready
Popular grievance to exploit in the
economic situation. Inflation was intense
and wages lagged far behind. Conse-
quently demonstrations were held
throughout Indonesia, and the Govern-
ment was inundated with delegations,
Petitions, letters and telegrams demand-
lng (not requesting) price cuts and
wage increases until General Nasution
ordered strict measures against them.
Since then the Communists have not
used the public as a means of pressing
the Government, complaints being con-
fined to requests by usually muted state-
ments, telegrams and deputations.
Even on anti-colonial matters the
Government has exercised strict control
over Communist activities. On February
10, 1958, the army established the
National Front for the Liberation of
West Irian, to channel and control all
activities in this campaign, and so prevent
PKI from gaining advantage from it. At
present the recently formed National
Front seems to be playing this role. And
where the Communists in a frenzy of
anti-colonial zeal have acted indepen-
dently, the authorities have not hesitated
to react severely.
Labor agitation has been peremptorily
eradicated. In August, 1957, strikes were
banned in all “vital” enterprises, the
definition of “vital” being gradually
widened to cover virtually all industries.
Strikes have ceased, and many Com-
munist trade union cadres have been
imprisoned for long terms for merely
discussing with workers the possibility
of strikes. Even May Day ceremonies
have been controlled. As of May Day,
1958, the authorities have organised
joint rallies at which speeches are given
by representatives of the army, the
Department of Labor, and the various
trade union federations. The speeches of
the trade union representatives must be
presented to the authorities for prior
clearance.
Thus it appears that PKI is effectively
obstructed in its efforts to create a
militant force from its mass support.
Firm action by the authorities to prevent
the first steps in militant experience seem
to have successfully prevented the step
by step acquisition of experience hoped
for by the Aidit leadership. Worse still
for PKI, a decline in the revolutionary
morale of some of the important cadres
seems to have set in simultaneously. In
fact, Government policy, with Soekarno
as its chief proponent, is aimed deliber-
ately to reduce or remove it. There are
two facets to this process, the one more
obvious, the other more complex.
The more obvious aspect is the inevit-
able general discouragement among
cadres because of the overall situation
in which PKI finds itself. Despite its
continued legal existence, there are
severe restrictions on the activities of
the Party and its mass organisations;
there is enforced servile praise of
Soekarno who in private is heartily
disliked by the cadres', the non-Com-
munist forces appear to be consolidating
their hold on power and to be creating
a “semi-fascist” regime; and the Party
is at best marking time in its own march
to power.
The other facet of the decline in
revolutionary morale is the embourgeoise-
ment of the cadres. A number of Com-
munist cadres apparently are finding
sufficient satisfaction of their material
and status ambitions so that they have
lost or are losing the will to overthrow
the existing socio-political order and
under present and foreseeable circum-
stances that order will have to be forcibly
destroyed if PKI is to win power.
In the September, 1955, general elec-
tions, PKI won 16.4 per cent, of the
total votes, as noted above, and 39 seats
in the Parliament that met for the first
time in March, 1956. Local and regional
councils were established in 1956 on the
basis of these election results. Between
June and November, 1957, local elec-
tions were held throughout Java, PKI
increasing its vote compared with Sep-
tember, 1955, by 37.2 per cent, and the
number of Communist councillors to
almost 1000.
At lower levels, PKI has succeeded in
placing its members and sympathisers
into such positions as village head.
Javanese society, particularly, is ex-
tremely status-conscious; the status (and
income) deriving from membership in
Parliament, councils and the body of
village officials may be for many a fully
acceptable substitute for power.* Thus
for many cadres, coming from the poorer
segments of society, PKI and the mass
organisations have provided them directly
(through positions in the extensive Com-
munist organisational network) or in-
directly with prestigeful and materially
secure positions but within the frame-
work of the existing order.
In March, 1960, Soekarno dissolved
* PKI requires that any member who
receives a remunerated position because
of his membership in the Party must give
the Party his wages and in return receive
an honorarium. But, in general, Com-
munist members of Parliament and coun-
cils, as well as cadres holding important
positions in the Party and the mass org-
anisations, are readily distinguishable
from their colleagues by the better qual-
ity of their clothes and the expensive
brands of their cigarettes.


the elected Parliament and appointed a
new one. Toward the end of the year,
the local and regional councils were also
“re-tooled.” The heads of the various
levels of “autonomous districts” became
the appointees of the Government. Com-
munists were given about 65 seats in the
new Parliament, and PKI ant its mass
organisations have been well represented
in the appointed local and regional coun-
cils. Communist-supported—though in-
dependent-minded appointees now fill
the positions of Deputy-Governor in
Djakarta Raja, West Java and Central
Java, and Communist members have
been appointed mayors in Semarang,
Surakarta, Tjirebon, and Surabaja. In
the new, appointed high councils to
advise the Government, such as the
National Advisory Council, the National
Planning Council and the Provisional
People’s Consultative Assembly, Com-
munists have received many positions.
Some Western observers have been
horrified by these appointments, and
view them as evidence that Soekarno is
either pro-Communist or blind to the
danger of Communism. In fact, they
are further evidence that Soekarno is a
shrewd political manipulator determined
to maintain the present non-Communist
regime. The appointments help him in
three ways. First, Parliament, the Con-
sultative Assembly, and the various coun-
cils, though shorn of any power, are
still necessary for the President to
legitimise his rule and to give an appear-
ance that there is a democratic aspect of
guided democracy.
“Vested interest” in Government
Oecond, by bringing PKI and other
political parties into the various ap-
pointed bodies, but at the same time
preventing those bodies from voicing
criticism, he is forcing the parties to
identify themselves with the Government.
This in turn makes it difficult for them
to exploit popular discontent at the
Government’s inadequacies and failures,
particularly in the economic field. And
third, he is giving Communist cadres a
vested interest in the regime. To have
excluded Communists from the appointed
positions would have made many of
them bitterly resentful of the loss of
dignifying and materially rewarding
positions; to include them, at the same
time making the positions virtually pow-
erless, may well reduce or remove their
ardor as Communists for the overthrow
of the regime. If their personal situation
is quite good, it is doubtful that they
will risk the gamble of revolutionary
action.
In short, Soekarno and the other groups
in the Government have prevented the
Communist leaders from educating and
training their mass following in militant
and successful actions, and, worse still,
the revolutionary spearhead of cadres ap-
pears to have been somewhat blunted.
The possibility that PKI might achieve
power “by acclamation” has never loomed
large in Indonesia, and has grown no
larger during the period of the alliance
with Soekarno. Certainly inflation con-
tinues at a rapid pace, and there are often
grave shortages of basic consumer com-
modities. But the situation is very differ-
ent from that in Weimar Germany or the
last years of Kuomintang China. In the
economic field, the Indonesian Govern-
ment manages to ensure a minimum of
basic goods and occasional luxuries to the
politically important sections the
armed forces, the public servants, the
leading politicians, and the white-collar
groups in general while in the villages
the tendency to share available wealth
not too unequally among all villagers pre-
vents the appearance of a truly impover-
ished rural proletariat.
In other words, the present ruling
groups, who have a considerable edge on
PKI in terms of power, have given no
indication of turning to PKI as the only
group able to govern well, especially as
their hold on power is being strengthened.
CONCLUSION
When the Aidit leadership won control
of PKI in January, 1951, it took over a
small, poorly organised party still licking
its wounds after the failure of the Madiun
rebellion. The more politically conscious
and politically influential sections of In-
donesian society had proved and con-
tinued to prove resistant to the Party’s
search for support.
Consequently the Aidit leadership was
forced to seek support among the masses,
the workers, peasants and poorer sections
of the “petty bourgeoisie”, who were still
by and large outside the political process.
In order to win mass support it was neces-
sary to present an image of PKI that
would be both attractive to the poorer
generally passive, sections ot society and
acceptable to significant sections of the
non-Communist ruling groups who con-
trolled the means of repression and who
could have made Communist organisa-
tional work extremely difficult if not
impossible.
This image was one of PKI as fervently
patriotic, sympathetic to religion, peace-
ful in pursuit of its goals, painstakingly
solicitous of the small problems consc-
iously felt by its potential supporters,
moderate in demands, and self-effacing
in the friendliness shown towards most
other Indonesian political forces. With this
image plus organisational skill and ten-
acity, PKI has become the largest non-
governing Communist party in the world,
and important non-Communist political
forces have worked in alliance with PKI.
When the possibility of a parliamentary
road to power was firmly blocked after
1955, PKI was forced to seek the alliance
of one of the two emerging dominant
powers in the country. PKI had mass
support, but after many years of the
broad national united-front policy, and in
face of the overwhelming power super-
iority of the extra-parliamentary political
forces, the Party was in no position to
challenge the new ruling groups. Certainly
the Party could have survived severe
Government repression, but it would have
survived as a mere underground shadow
of its former self. In these circumstances
the Aidit leadership preferred to seek
alliance with Soekarno, who was primar-
ily concerned with his power struggle
with the army. Undoubtedly the Com-
munist leaders hoped that the alliance
would provide at least the protection of
legality and the opportunity to continue
the necessarily slow process of develop-
ing their mass support into a force cap-
able of acting in a disciplined and revolu-
tionary manner.
Soekarno has understood and exploit-
ed the major dilemma faced by the PKI
leaders. He knows that they can either
earn his protection by rendering him sup-
port in his struggle with the army, but
at the same time accept the risk of domes-
tication; or they can break the alliance,
which would very probably alienate much
of the existing support, divide the cadres,
and bring about a strongly anti-Com-
munist Government. In the knowledge of
this dilemma, Soekarno, with the willing
assistance of the army, has implemented
a policy of domestication. PKI and its
mass organisations have been protected,
but the foreseeable reads to power have
been effectively blocked.
Communists have been given no control
of Ministries or positions in the bureau-
cracy from which they could pad the
administration with their own supporters;
and the centrai army command has had
a free hand to remove to powerless posi-
tions officers suspected of Communist
sympathies.
Parliament and elections have been
rendered ineffective as a means to power.
At the same time the Government has
gradually applied restrictions, controls
and supervision over Communist activities
with a view to preventing the PKI leaders
from creating a disciplined, militant force
capable of winning power against the
opposition of the ruling groups. And the
very process of domestication removes
the possibility that PKI may be called
to power by acclamation.


ZANZIBAR - AFRICAN CUBA?
The "Peking Review" and the "Moscow News"
From ALASTAIR MATHESON in Zanzibar
Zanzibar, the 640 square miles tropical
isle lying 20 miles off the East
African coast, has long had reason to be
thankful for its cloves. The aromatic spice
rescued the island from its economic
doldrums when the profitable slave trade
was outlawed and the Sultan placed his
domains under British protection last
century.
The drastic decline in the demand for
cloves over the past few years, however,
has left the island with a two-year supply
of unsold stocks.
Although the growers are pessimistic
about the future, cloves have proved a
distinct advantage to Zanzibari poli-
ticians. Because a late election this year
would clash with the clove-picking season,
the Colonial Secretary, Mr Duncan
Sandys, has cut through red tape and
told British officials here to make urgent
arrangements for general elections so
that self-government can pave the way
for early independence.
The British officials who run Zanzibar
in consultation with Sultan Abdullah
(Seyid Sir Abdullah Bin Khalifa Bin
Harub) had devised their own cumbrous
election arrangements involving the inter-
viewing and photographing of every
voter among the 307,000 people on Zan-
zibar and Pemba. Under the new stream-
lining, officers are being brought from
Kenya with previous experience of mass
registration. It is likely that Zanzibar will
attain full sovereignty early next year,
with the elections scheduled for July or
August this year.
Despite the deep-seated hatred between
the true Arabs and the Afro-Shirazis (of
Persian and African origin), all groups
are keen on speedy independence. The
Afro-Shirazi Party is tipped to win the
elections by a slim majority, but the
party leader, Sheik Abeid Karume, is
faced with internal dissension. A splinter
group, the People's Party, split the vote
in the 1961 elections, resulting in a dead
heat between Karume and the National-
ist Party led by Sheik Ali Muhsin.
Holding the balance of power, yet
able to muster only three Members in
the Legislature, the splinter People’s
Party nevertheless drove a hard bargain
which resulted in its leader, Sheik
Mohamed Shamte, being named Chief
Minister.
After three days’ discussions here, Mr.
Sandys decided in favour of the Afro-
Shirazi request for elections before self-
government, thus discomfiting the Nation-
alists who wanted the timetable in re-
verse -
Despite the promise of independence,
many storm clouds lie ahead, and al-
though the Red Flag which flies every-
where belongs to the Sultan, the island
is a hotbed of Communism.
It is believed that more anti-Western
literature is fed into East Africa through
Zanzibar than anywhere on the mainland.
One bookshop carries a wide range from
the airmail edition of the “Peking Review”
to the “Moscow News” (at give-away
prices), with Lenin’s Collected Works
at just over 3s. a tome.
Perhaps the most dangerous man on
the island, as far as the West is con-
cerned, is now in gaol. Abdulrahman
Mohamed (“Babu”) is serving 13 months
for sedition, but this admirer of Mao
Tse-tung is likely to emerge, just after the
elections as a national hero, to take over
the anti-British Arab Nationalists from
the more moderate Sheik Ali Muhsin.
Independence for Zanzibar may absolve
Britain of any further responsibilities, but
there are many in East Africa who fear
the island may become another Cuba.
TROUBLE WITH PAPA DOC'
Disenchantment in Haiti
By J. HALCRO FERGUSON
virtual ending of US aid to
Haiti, announced this month, fol-
lows a growing disenchantment with the
authoritarian regime of President Fran-
sois Duvalier, and a realisation that the
propping up of this dictatorship does not
accord with the principles underlying
President Kennedy’s Alliance for Pro-
gress.
According to the terms of this pro-
gramme, agreed to at the Punta del
Este conference of August, 1961, the US
will grant assistance for development to
Latin American Governments which op-
erate democratically and show themselves
willing to use funds and technical help
for economically workable reforms.
The Government of overcrowded Haiti
(an estimated four million population in
a mountainous Caribbean country the
size of Wales) fails to meet either of
these requirements.
Over the last five years alone Haiti
has received more than 40 million dol-
lars from the United States, and has
practically nothing to show for it. The
great majority of the population of the
all-negro republic is still illiterate and
living at subsistence level.
Haiti’s capital, Port-au-Prince, con-
sists largely of sub-standard housing.
There is only one paved road of any con-
sequence in the entire country. The tele-
phone system is generally out of order.
There is an almost total lack of public
security, and for the peaceful, law-abid-
ing citizen the police are often more of a
menace than the admitted malefactors,
who may cosh and rob their victims but
are not in the habit of imprisoning them
and torturing them afterwards.
From this state of affairs it might be
deduced that Haiti suffers from a weak
and impotent Government. But this is
far from being the case. President Du-
valier (who likes to folksify himself as
“Papa Doc”) has been firmly in power
since 1957, when elections were held at
which his was the only name on the
ballot paper. Since then he has had his
“mandate” confirmed by another “elec-
tion” (nobody knows why, since his term
wasn’t up anyway), but his real power
rests in the 600 picked troops who guard
his white, wedding-cake palace and his
official organisation of bullyboys, known
locally as the “Tonton Macoutes”.
This body enforces “voluntary” contri-
butions from businessmen for any pro-
ject the President may have in mind (the
projects seldom get further than the
President’s mind). Since most of the bus-
inessmen are foreigners this understand-
ably annoys foreign diplomatic missions,
and last March the British Ambassador
said so.
At the same time, in an interview with
an American magazine, he observed: “If
you help Haiti, you ?.re keeping a gang-
ster in power. If you don’t you’re being
cruel to a poor Negro people”. The
Haitian Government promptly ordered
him out of the country for traducing
Haiti. The Haitian Ambassador was
asked to leave London, and neither has
been replaced.
Part of the blame for this state of
affairs must undoubtedly be laid at the
door of the country’s small, mostly
lighter-skinned, elite. Speaking beautiful
French and living in comparative afflu-
ence, they send their children to school
in France (whose colony Haiti was until
1804) and keep aloof from the poverty-
stricken, patois-speaking peasantry,
By withdrawing aid the US will not
harm the peasantry, who never benefit-
ted from it, but it may shake Duvalier
and even perhaps stir up the charming,
sophisticated, self-satisfied elite.


FORUM
FINDING AUSTRALIA'S
"PLYMOUTH ROCK"
Before another error becomes "history"
By M. H. ELLIS
TN one of her speeches in Sydney, the Queen said that no other nation
in the world and no great city outside Australia could pin-point the
actual spot on which it was founded. The strange thing is that 175
years after the foundation no real attempt has been made to pin-point
that spot and mark it. The United States has its Plyinouth Rock. Aus-
tralia has none. And if something is not soon done, the marking will
be done in the wrong place. The error will then become ineradicable
‘history’, as have so many absurd fallacies taught about our early days.
Experience has shown that, once established, no facts, no evidence can
override popular legend.
Tn 1954, indeed, the wrong spot was
very nearly identified and by no less
an authority than the Maritime Services
Board which was about to place a plaque
in front of its building at the Quay,
then recently erected on the site of
Macquarie’s old Commissariat store.
The Board appealed to the Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society under the
popular impression that it is a body of
historical experts, whereas it is a body
of historical enthusiasts, sometimes with
little or no historical or antiquarian
knowledge in its controlling body.
The members of the Council proposed
to fall in with Maritime Services Board’s
desires and composed an inscription for
a plaque, the evidence being an entry in
an early almanac, which stated that on
the morning of Foundation Day, a party
landed and raised the Union Jack on a
large gum tree on the Western side of
Sydney Cove. I eventually wrote the in-
scription which now appears on the
plaque and which says that the landing
on January 26, 1788 took place “in the
vicinity of this Cove”.
Judging by several newspaper and
other references which have come to
notice during proceedings just before and
connected with the Queen’s visit, the
move to shift the landing point to the
forefront of the Maritime Services Board
continues. There, no doubt, unless some
proper steps are taken, it will be un-
doubtedly established in the face of all
the indubitable evidence to the contrary.
Arising out of the incident of 1954,
I moved, as a representative of the Pion-
eers’ Club, to have a committee of inves-
tigation appointed to sift the evidence.
The committee included Mr W. V. J.
Windeyer, QC, as chairman, and various
knowledgeable persons and representa-
tives of the appropriate societies, plus Mr
Gordon Richardson, the Principal Librar-
ian of the Public Library, and Mr John
Forsyth, one of the best informed nauti-
cal historians and with a legal training.
However, nobody save the chairman,
Mr Forsyth and myself seemed to be
enthusiastic and the project died.
I have now written to the Lord Mayor
on behalf of the Pioneers’ Club suggest-
ing that it be revived. It is time that
the very doorstep of Australian history
be distinguished by some monument
better than the public lavatory which
seems to be its nearest civic landmark.
It is difficult for a modern to get a
mind-picture of Sydney Cove as it was
on the morning of January 26, 1788. It
had none of the conformation of today.
From the southern end of the dec-
livities of Bennelong Point, the slopes of
the land along the southern end “or head”
of the Cove were on much gentler in-
cline, fringed on the harbor side by
a low, broken rock shelf which ran
round to a point in front of the northern
end of Macquarie Place. Part of this
rock shelf can be seen today in front of
the AMP Building, the rest has been
graded into municipal tidiness.
The Point formed an elevated peninsula
which, on its eastern side, had been form-
ed by the erosion of the tide licking
against the southern shore or head. On
the Point’s western side was a bed of
sand, partly overgrown, formed by the
ebb and flow of the waters of the Tank
Stream estuary, a wideish estuary. At high
tide the sand was mostly covered with
water to a shallow depth, leaving the
Point sharply defined. At low tide the
estuary consisted of sandy levels through
the centre of which only a narrow stream
of fresh water trickled.
At the base of the rock shelf running
round the south eastern and southern
part of the Cove was a beach, covered
at high water.
High water mark, and the limit of
the beach near the western point of the
“head of the Cove” was just about where
the light-house is marked in bas-relief
on the west side of the Customs House.
The beach and shelf from here curved
round so that the end of the Point
the only noticeable point and a fairly low
one at the Cove’s southern end, was a
little to the north west.
On the end of this Point, so as to
reach deeper water beyond the narrow
silted beach, a jetty almost at once
was built. The northern end of this reach-
ed to what is now the front of the Para-
gon Hotel
All north of that was then taken up
by the waters of the Cove. The crude
plan by Lieutenant Bradley, First
Lieutenant of the Sirius who, when he
made it (or dated it) was engaged with
Governor Hunter in surveying Port
Jackson, gives a fairly good idea of the
shape and appearance of the Cove, as
it was on March 1, 1788, just on a month
after the settlement was founded. The
Cove is shown at low tide.
This is how Collins described the ini-
tial landings:
Governor Phillip, with a party of
marines and artificers arrived in Port
Jackson, and anchored off the mouth
of the Cove intended for the settle-
ment, on the evening of the 25th; and
in the course of the following day,


sufficient ground was cleared for
encamping the Governor’s Guard, and
the convicts who had landed that
morning.
Here is our first piece of evidence. We
know exactly where the Governor’s
Guard was established. It was up the
incline on the rock shelf near the north-
ern base of Macquarie Place. Collins
adds to the evidence in favor of this be-
ing the landing spot with these state-
ments :
“The spot chosen for this purpose
was at the head of the Cove near a
run of fresh water.”
Collins now relates that “in the even-
ing of this day (January 26), the whole
of the party then present, (i.e. the party
that had come in the Supply) “assembled
at the point where they had first landed
in the morning, and on which a flagstaff
had been purposely erected, and a Union
Jack displayed.”
And there, as Lieutenant P. G. King,
Phillip’s aide-de-camp, also tells in his
journal, the ceremony of “taking posses-
sion” in due form was carried out.
It is unlikely thai. the flag was moved
from its position before the French
ships, then in Botany Bay, were clear of
land. They did not sail until March 7.
Bradley’s chart of March 1 shows the
flag in position on the edge of the shore
line overlooking the beach and just within
the shelter of the point on which the
wharf was erected. Since the amount of
land cleared must have been very small
in the few hours they had been ashore,
this would be the logical position for it.
It is almost on the Magnetic-North line
drawn through HMS Supply which lay
within the mouth of the Cove.
This is a very long way from the land-
ing place later used on the western shore
of the Cove near the Maritime Services
Board, behind the site of which the hospi-
tal was erected, in modern George
Street North, reaching from the Police
Station towards Argyle Street.
No contemporary account suggests or
even gives the inference that the landing
may have been made on the western side.
The flagstaff seems to have been moved
and placed in a small redoubt a few
yards east of the wharf a little later on,
as shown by another and later drawing
in Bradley’s journal. In this position it
was at the entrance to the Guard House
and to the Vice-regal residential enclo-
sure of the time. But there are reasons
of topography why it would have been
there on the first day and every reason to
find it logical that the first boats should
have come ashore on the beach to the
West of the point.
The original position would seem to
have been in the eastern part of modern
ENCAMPMENT AS AT Ist MARCH 1788
Loftus Street, about level with the wall
of the Customs House between the light-
house bas relief and the lane behind the
building.
Joseph Fowles, who generally shows an
accurate knowledge of early topographi-
cal history, writes in Sydney in 1848 that
“on the 26th a sufficient space for the
military and convicts” having been
cleared, a flagstaff was erected “near
where the Obelisk now stands, and the
national flag hoisted . . . The canvas
house of the Governor and the huts of
the officers were placed on the east
of the Tank Stream with the flagstaff in
front.”
Thus, it appears that Macquarie Place
is the cradle of the nation, the place
where the city of Sydney and New South
Wales were officially founded; where
the first houses were completed, the
first military force set down and the first
garden planted. '
It seems that before the area is wholly
hemmed in by what Prince Philip des-
cribed as “cigar boxes” on end, some
thought should be given to removing the
clutter from the spot and adorning it
suitably.
It is a spot on which the Australian
flag might be always flown ceremonially
and permanently.


letters
to the
editor
MICHAEL CHARLTON AND
4 CORNERS
Sir,
At the risk of incurring the wrath of
my spouse I wish to add a few remarks
to your feature about Michael Charlton
(Bulletin, March 6).
A thoroughly delightful friend he is
always the first to get annoyed at features
which proclaim him as the West Aus-
tralian wonder boy.
That he is Australia’s top interviewer
is an undisputed fact. That his charm,
his personality and his skill as an inter-
viewer are undoubtedly the things that
make “4 Corners” as popular as it is, I
would be the first to admit.
But, as the wife of Australia’s most
over-worked producer, I am finally pro-
testing. Robert Raymond is the pro-
ducer, in the full sense of the word, of
“4 Corners.” He is not “co-producer” as
your story calls him any more than
Michael is the co-interviewer.
The programme “Horizons” was con-
ceived by Robert Raymond who, in fact,
himself carried out the first memorable
interview with the legendary Norman
Lindsay who had never been interviewed
before. My husband later concerned
himself only with the production. When
he ceased to do that too the programme
went downhill rapidly and was later
dropped.
My husband, often thought to be an
Englishman, is, in fact, a very staunch
Australian. He came here specifically
to do the type of programme now called
“4 Corners.” Without someone as gifted
as Michael it would probably never have
come about.
Furthermore, in your short summary
of my husband’s previous work no
mention is made of the many pro-
grammes made by him for the ABC,
most of which have been successfully
sold abroad.
MARION RAYMOND
Bellevue Hill (NSW).
“THE NEW ENGLISH WEEKLY”
Sir.
I want to dispose of copies of “The
New English Weekly” edited by A. E.
Orage (from 1933-1946). These may be
obtained for payment of freight (ap-
prox. weight 80 lbs.) by writing to me
direct at the following address:
Mr M. S. Rhys, Kersley St., Kenmore,
Brisbane.
M. S. RHYS
Kenmore (Queensland).
THE CYNICAL BATMAN?
Sir,
I have been reading The Bulletin
over many years and have survived the
transition period successfully. I think
many of the articles are rehashes from
matter already published in various
papers, but overall it suits me to read
something of other States without having
to buy local papers.
I do, however, take exception to your
“Batman’s” articles on the visit of Her
Majesty. In the second article of March
9, he seems unjustified in affirming the
Queen’s reaction to a Moomba float,
when it can be merely his own, surmise.
He also points out the difficulty he had
in writing the article. I think there would
be no loss had it remained still-born.
“Batman” appears a very clever and
cynical person but his final paragraph
in article of March 2 goes beyond
even good taste. (Batman wrote: “The
Queen dropped her hands, wilted and
turned to the Duke. One wouldn’t mind
betting she said, ‘Thank God that’s over.’
The feeling could be stronger by the
end of March.”) If “Batman” saw this,
which I doubt, he obviously was not
intended to, therefore he should have
been silent. The Queen has no defence
against this sort of comment, and though
a Queen she is still a woman. Maybe
“Batman’s” cynical imagination has
again run away with him. Perhaps her
shoes were hurting.
CHAS. E. NORTON
Kew (Victoria).
THE CURRIE CASE
Sir,
May I be permitted to make a few
comments and express opinion, which
I believe to be in the public interest,
arising out of the Currie Case.
In October last I wrote an article
which was published in the Hobart
“Mercury” arising out of Mr J. H.
O’Neill’s reported statement “Watch the
Communists” and in the article I
mentioned amongst others the name of
the President of the Hobart Trades Hall
Council, Arnold Currie, as being on the
Tasmanian Communist State Committee
with me from 1953-56.
Following newspaper reports I made a
sworn Statutory Declaration, which if
untrue is punishable under Victorian
State Law. This declaration was pub-
lished in “The Mercury.” In it I swore
that Currie was a Communist.
At a later date another person also
made a similar sworn Declaration that
Currie was known to them as a Com-
munist.
I further said I am prepared to attend
any Court of Inquiry at any level and
on oath answer any questions on this
matter, my only request being that ex-
penses are paid.
Mr Currie is, as I have already said,
a “likeable bloke” and an excellent
union official. The same could be said
of Mr Jack Stanistreet of the Australian
Railways Union, and of others I knew
at all levels of the Australian Communist
Party. True, Mr Arnold Currie is a
returned serviceman, also a Justice of
the Peace in the Glenorchy Municipality
near Hobart. For that matter I am an
ex-serviceman with full war service and
a military long service medal as well.
Currie was being groomed for even
higher positions than he holds today,
following his re-election to presidency
of the Hobart Trades Hall Council, and
to the ACTU position. For when I
visited Tasmania in November last I
understood it was hoped he would one
day obtain Government office and
possibly follow Mr O’Neill as a Com-
missioner of the Hydro-Electric Com-
mission.
It is, however, worthy to note that the
ALP in Tasmania has ignored the sworn
declarations Currie has made more
and the mass of evidence I made public,
and has not taken advantage of my offer
to attend any inquiry. Further Ministers
and members of the Government as well
as leading State ALP officials have given
moral support to the secret communist
Currie, and shown complete irresponsi-
bility not only to the ALP and its mem-
bership but to the people of Australia
and especially to Tasmania.
The State Opposition has also failed
in its responsibility to the Tasmanian
community in not insisting that the
matter be dealt with, as sworn evidence
has gone unchallenged.
AUSTIN STEPHENS
Warrnambool (Victoria).
WEST NEW GUINEA SELL-OUT
Sir,
I would like to compliment you on
your article in the issue of the Bulletin
of March 2.
I think Australians cannot get enough
of this sort of up-to-date information
about what is happening just at their
back door. After four months’ service
with UNTEA in Ho.'landia I left West
New Guinea last week.
S. WESTRA
Netherlands Consulate,
Brisbane.
IONESCO AND PATAPHYSICS
Sir,
Mr Lucien Boz’s informative article
on lonesco omitted a particular aspect
of the writer which is integral to any
study of him.
This is the fact that Mr. lonesco is a


INDONESIA
—COMMUNIST
OR NEUTRAL?
Indonesia’s internal politics and
leading figures are discussed in the
March issue of the Australian
Quarterly just released.
Other articles of interest cover: —
• Resignation of Sir Leslie
Melville.
• Government interference with
the A.B.C.
• Restrictive trade practices.
THE AUSTRALIAN QUARTERLY
a journal of political, economic and
social comment brings you
detailed studies by experts, and
provides you with a broad back-
ground knowledge of current
events. You will find it a valuable
source of reference material.
Start your yearly subscription now
with the March issue. Subscription
is £1 for four issues, postage
included.
FILL IN THE FORM BELOW
Subscription Department
AUSTRALIAN QUARTERLY
Rural Bank Building
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Please send me the 1963 issues of the
Australian Quarterly. I enclose my cheque/
money order for £1 covering subscription
and postage.
NAME
ADDRESS
satrap of the College de Pataphysique,
a group of writers and artists (including
Prevert, Queneau, Miro, Dubuffet, Ernst,
Vian, and Rene Clair) dedicated to per-
petuating the work of Alfred Jarry, and
practising his science of Pataphysics.
It is noteworthy that lonesco’s first
play was published in the “Cahiers du
College de Pataphysique,” and the last-
ing influence of Alfred Jarry on lonesco’s
work is noticeable. This should not be
neglected in favour of overemphasising
the Rumanian influences.
This is not to say lonesco imitates
Jarry. But he is so steeped in his spirit
that much of his work might have been
written by Jarry (or vice versa).
Those who saw the production of
Jarry’s “Übu roi” by Sydney University
Dramatic Society last year would have
noticed this. It is this group that Mr
Boz referred to in his article, which in-
troduced lonesco to Australian audiences
via “The Bald Prima Donna” in 1958.
On March 28 this year they once again
present works by lonesco “Maid to
Marry,” “The Leader” and “Foursome,”
as part of “A revue of the absurd,” to-
gether with plays and sketches by Beck-
ett, Pinter, Simpson, Albee, Jarry, and
Prevert.
A. THOMS
Annandale (NSW).
THE COMPLACENT ABC?
Sir,
May 1 support Lindsay K. Bates
(Bulletin, February 23) concerning the
lop-sided service provided by the ABC?
When we in the more -remote country
areas hear announcements that TV will
shortly be provided in this or that city
and that Sydney, Canberra and Mel-
bourne can now (at a cost of £7,000,-
000) all hear the same TV program at
the one time we wonder what sort of
bunnies we are that we meekly put up
with the present set-up.
We help to pay for the other fellow’s
TV. We cannot hope to attend the con-
certs in the capital cities, and the one
thing the ABC could do for us they
resolutely refuse to do, i.e., give us the
first and the second programs from the
regional stations, instead of the largely
first program hybrid which is put out
by the regionals.
1 am afraid the ABC is quite com-
placent in the face of this situation,
which has been brought to their notice
many times before.
C. H. WILSON
Barcaldine (Queensland)
STEAM AND SAIL
Sir,
“Back in 1902, when Sydney Harbour
was a maze of masts, yard-arms and
towering bowsprits” (National Notebook,
Bulletin, February 16).
This, surely, sounds like “the Great
days of Sail” which had ended well
before this. I remember Brisbane in
1900 and practically all ships were steam.
The shipping columns in your old news-
paper files will show this. And nearly
all our immigrants from the early ’Bos
onwards came by steam, mostly by Suez,
and some by Torres Strait.
Windjammers were, however, used for
a few purposes up to the turn of the
century Aust. coal to the west coast
ports of the Americas, and for many
wheat cargoes.
S. M. HUTCHISON
Toowoomba ( Queensland ).
THE BUSY GOOSOCRACY
Sir,
Mr Grigson (Bulletin, March 2) is so
excited about developing his two argu-
ments that “Australiana'’ has gone far
enough and that patronage by govern-
ments can be a bad thing that he allows
his goosey hissing to obscure his argu-
ment.
In the course of history there have
been many artists, who have been able
to express their genius and/ or particular
vision of the world in spite of being
patronised and supported by the Estab-
lishment of their day. Sidney Nolan is
an example of someone approved by the
British Establishment as well as by Mr
Grigson. As Mr Grigson must well
know, living in a country such as Britain,
there are some branches of the arts
which would be lost if there was no
government interest in them. Govern-
ment patronage can be a bad thing but
it need not be.
Continuing his busy hissing, Mr
Grigson becomes so cross about the fact
that “Australiana” is a bit of a gimmick
at the moment that he denies that it is
possible to find “a common Australian
characteristic” in work done by Austral-
ians. The geographic and physical
situation of a group of people does give
rise to local qualities particularly ex-
pressive of the group and its environ-
ment. A man cannot escape his back-
ground. He is rooted in his past and
his locality flavors his mode of expres-
sion but if he is a genius his vision will
have universal appeal
MRS. P. BOYD
Oakleigh (Victoria).
THE BULLETIN’S POETRY
Sir,
Long have I watched,
beaverly eager,
as some obese navigator seeking
landfall,
for Bulletin printed poems
untritely cliche-free,
freshly melodic, pregnant.
Vainly.
unformed, adolescent, self-conscious
tripe,
the mouthings of romantic
beta-minuses,
fit only to stimulate the action
of the larger gut
Please,
worthy Bulle,
spare us more.
J. M. MacKEAN
Elwood (Victoria).


REVIEWS
THEATRE
TOO LATE FOR DINNER
By MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
The Man Who Came to Dinner.
George S. Kaufman and Moss Hart.
Union Theatre Repertory Com-
pany. Russell Street Theatre, Mel-
bourne.
The Crucible. Arthur Miller. Mel-
bourne University Dramatic Club.
Union Theatre, Melbourne.
Oheridan Whiteside, the man who
came to dinner to a Middle West
American home, slipped on the door-
step, broke his hip and stayed till Christ-
mas, was based on Alexander Woollcott, a
famous personality in the ’twenties and
’thirties in America. He was a journalist,
dramatic critic of the “New York Times”,
had his own radio programme, wrote
books and even acted the part of Sheri-
dan Whiteside in “The Man Who Came
to Dinner.” He was known to everyone
in those days and he knew everyone who
mattered. But who remembers Alexander
Woollcott now? The play is crammed
with references to the famous people of
the day, from Shirley Temple to Gertrude
Stein; but, alas, how few of them mean
much to us today? It is clear that
this play has a built-in ephemerality.
John Sumner, the producer, while
claiming in the programme note that this
comedy “has not really dated,” betrays
his uneasiness by substituting a number
of contemporary names. Sir Edmund
Hillary, not Admiral Byrd, sends White-
side four penguins, and General Nasser,
not the Khedive of Egypt, sends the
Egyptian mummy-case. But this insertion
of the present into the past only makes
us realise how times have changed. How
improbable that General Nasser should
send a present of a mummy-case to an
American journalist! If there is still an
international set of the kind portrayed
in “The Man Who Came to Dinner” it
is extremely unlikely that it would in-
clude the present ruler of Egypt and the
New Zealand bee-keeper who conquered
Everest. They are made of sterner stuff.
Because only some of the names have
been changed, the play is full of
anachronisms. We now have Joan
Crawford, Shirley Temple and Jayne
Mansfield and General Nasser. Since
accuracy is the soul of wit, all point is
lost.
The chief point of the play, however,
is to provide a vehicle for Frank
Thring. Mr Thring plays himself, with
great authority and very entertainingly.
There are many resemblances between
the part of Frank Thring and the part
of Sheridan Whiteside. They have in
common wit, an abounding presence and
magnificent egoism. But the crustiness
and the sentimentality of Whiteside are
lacking in Thring. Mr Thring is not old
enough to be crusty, nor American
enough to be sentimental.
Indeed, like most of the other actors,
he does not seem American at all. Their
motto in this play seems to be: “Be your-
self!” Michael Duffield as Mr Stanley,
Whiteside’s reluctant host, is not in the
least like an American businessman or
father. He seems utterly English, while
Myrtle Woods as his wife is the dead
spit of an Australian housewife. The
most satisfying performances are those
which are pure farce Jon Finlayson as
Noel Coward, Alan Hopgood as the
Marx brother and Lynne Flanagan as
Lorraine Sheldon, the famous siren.
Since this comedy is dated, the only
hope is to play it as a period piece. But,
since the period was not so very long
ago, it is necessary to get both time and
place absolutely accurate. John Sumner
has made all sorts of compromises: the
essence of politics, but not of production.
“npHE Crucible” is based on the witch
A hunt in Salem, Massachusetts, in
1692; but was inspired by the McCarthy
interrogations. It is a crusading play in
which the issues are presented as quite
clear - cut good against evil, light
against darkness and are not deeply
probed. Arthur Miller’s attitude has
something in common with that of the
McCarthy supporters or the witch-hunt-
ing citizens of Salem. Like them he
simplifies all moral issues: somebody has
to be absolutely right and somebody
absolutely wrong. This is to divide the
world into the sheep and the goats in the
same way that the witch-hunters did.
Under the direction of Graeme Henry,
the MUDC gives the play the kind of
fervent, clear-eyed, crisp-voiced produc-
tion that it needs.
KING-SIZED CORN
Dr Homer Speaks: Oh Ai-lar-Tsua
Farewell. Ric Throssell. Repertory
Society. Canberra.
The world premiere of Ric Throssell's
new play was staged as one of the
final events in the Canberra Jubilee Cele-
brations. Canberra's first-night audience
is usually sympathetic and enthusiastic,
but the mere patter of applause at the
final curtain showed that this offering had
not amused.
This was not surprising, Dr Homer, etc.
is called ‘a comic cartoon’ on the pro-
gramme. Maybe it is, if that means a mix-
ture of university revue humor, 19th
century music hall situations and a few
gimmick devices probably intended to
suggest the influence of the Theatre of the
Absurd. But good Absurdity manages to
surprise and entertain, and in the end its
plays do add up to something. Dr H.
added up to nothing, though a number of
its haphazard gestures seemed to aim
at a criticism of the Americanisation of
Australia.
Mr Throssell's idea of the humorous
needs illustration. First, the cryptic title:
he tells us that ‘Ai-lar-Tsua’ is ‘strictly
nowhere’. Smartly recalling Erehwon and
Sam Butler, we read it backwards, and
are you ahead of me here? find
“Australia’. Not ‘nowhere’, but ‘Australia’,
for if any of his satire is to have a point
it must refer to us. However, the author
makes no attempt to copy Butler’s bril-
liantly contrary set-up. He merely ex-
tracts what humor he can from the subtle
possibilities of ‘Tsua’ (pronounced ‘sew-
er’) and he uses the technique of reversal
again only in the hilarious Notice indica-
ting that the heroine was born in the
“Arrebnac Community Hospital”.


NU-METAL
(PATENTED)
SELF-ENGINE
RECONDITIONER
WHILE-U-DRIVE
REPLATES WORN upper cylds., main bearings,
diffs., gears. OVERHAULS with high resistance
to wear to hot, moving engine parts. SAVES
Rebore. ENDS: Piston slap, rattles, oil, petrol
wcste. RESTORES: N'ew compression power, top
speed, zip. SAVES: Adds LSD to resale value.
GUARANTEE: Up to 25,000 miles. No results
no pay. Harmless finest engine. SIMPLE: Add
Re-Nu expanding up to 33% oily Nu-Metal to
oil-petrol or plug holes. 4,6, 8 cylds., 60/-,
70/-, 80/-. Testimonials, engineers' reports, free
advice available. Open Sat. morn. Distributors
required.
BOTH FREE! "How -to-do-it - at - Home Motor
Repairs". Plus 20 gallons free testing supply
of Molybdenum Disulphide (M. 0.5.2.) synthetic
petrol atomises comprehensive capsules. Petrol-
izes into millions of free flowing pellets.
Creates anti-friction up to 40% P.G. savings.
Simply add to petrol every 200 miles or to
petrol tank refill. Over 1 million outfits sold
since 1932. Only obtainable.
ORDER FORM:
RE-NU CO. (Estab. 1932)
58 Swan St., opp. Richmond Stn., Vic. JB 1755
I enclose £ for NU-METAL.
Name
Address
or send free particulars. BUL
American influence is particularized in
king-size corn, stomach ulcers, TV, juke-
box-playing teenagers, high-pressure
salesmanship and playing the stock-mar-
ket, for all of which America is appar-
ently responsible. But much of the
evenings activity goes to two situations
which certainly did not originate in the
States: Columbus’ crew probably used
them in their ship’s concert. They are 1.
the New Father coping with the New
Baby and 2. two fully-developed adults
dressed up as Kindergarten children.
Engaged in all this funny business are
some of Rep’s most talented performers.
They deserve our thanks, for whatever
vitality and comic ingenuity can make of
the text, they do make. The heaviest bur-
den and therefore the greatest credit go
to John Wells and Shirley Glover as the
New Parents, and to Graeme Campbell
and Frances Rose as the O.S. children.
But the best scene was certainly the TV
Commercial, when three actors using a
variety of lethal weapons mime out all
the violent deaths offered to the kiddies
in a session of TV.
Perhaps Mr Throssell should return
to serious drama. Or try again when he
has a good comic idea and a central
theme and has learnt that one catchy
couplet does not make a lyric.
HOPE HEWITT
BACK TO TRADITION
Pirates of Penzance; Trial by Jury.
Gilbert and Sullivan. Her Majesty’s.
Sydney.
Although I must say at once that
** JCW’s latest offering in their here-
again-gone-again Sydney Gilbert and
Sullivan season is a very rewarding and
funny night, there is just one cloud
over the bright occasion. Somehow,
somewhere, the brave new look that pro-
ducer Richard Campion had been giv-
ing to the operas has disappeared.
‘Pirates of Penzance,” while not a
complete retreat into the dear <• Id fossil
ways of the past, does nevertheless show
an about-face from the daring, and fresh-
ness of Mr Campion’s devisings. Now
this is a pity and a shame, for es-
pecially with his “Mikado,” seen here in
the company’s last visit Campion had
really got into his stride, had re-vamped
the shows top to bottom, and had in-
jected a great deal of fresh and amusing
business.
It is regrettable that the Firm has
taken Mr Campion off this wonderful
spade-work, for with all respect to Mr
Richard Wordsworth who has taken
over the production chores, there is
an obvious fade of splendor and variety.
No small loss, too, is the fact that Mr
Wordsworth is not as funny himself, as
chief comedian, as he was under Mr
Campion’s direction.
Very likely the cash registers have
reported the loss of many outraged trad-
itionalists but surely the Firm has
enough on the credit side from the
Gilsullivan past to plough a little back
in bold experiment, sowing the seeds of
future audiences?
These arguments apart, you ought to
enjoy “Pirates of Penzance” and the
short “Trial by Jury” more than some-
what. Mr Wordsworth has managed at
least to stay on the path trod far ahead
by Mr Campion. Mr Martin Law-
rence was a musical joy, with his mag-
nificent basso and a wild red wig as the
sergeant of police; and Miss Li averne
Gray, though some of her words are
still lost in the wings and flies, looked
and sang deliciously. Mr John Adams
had himself a field night in the character
part of Samuel, a leading pirate, and Mr
John Larsen, as Frederick, was suitably
wooden, noble, and melodious.
KEVON KEMP
ART
BLACK AND WHITE ART
Art. Farmers’ Blaxland
Gallery.
*°hn Olsen. Terry Clune Galleries.
pOR too long the various media of
artistic expression belonging to the
Aorigines have been neatly lumped
toder the heading of crafts. In the pre-
Jence of these 237 or so items one could
psily visualise a museum devoted to their
lo rk, not a gallery, not a stuffy ethnol-
jhgical showcase, but a carefully arranged
la vironment where some if not all (since
io y enclosed space outside a wurlie is
artificial) their merits might be more
easily disclosed. For the time being at
least the tradition of bark painting is
alive up in Arnhem Land and the Ben-
nett-Campbell Aborigine Trust, the
organiser of this exhibition, is doing its
best to keep it that way. Among the
missions the purchase of paintings, etc.,
has stimulated interest, but it need not
commercialise or debase it.
Most of the artists are known; their
tribal motifs are quite distinctive; all
reveal an intense concern for moral and
religious values beyond anything con-
ceived by the majority of our own white
(often vastly overrated) artists. This
would have little meaning for us were
it not for the fact that these values are
expressed in a subtle and incredibly
ancient set of plastic forms of enormous
sensitivity. When our own art is becom-
ing more meaningless it is refreshing to
turn to another on the same continent
which is not. Some of the most elusive
of all the paintings, the X-ray (so-called)
from Beswide Creek is fast disappearing.
“Cooper’s,” “Catfish,” or “Fish” on the
other hand has lost none of the old
mystery. Twenty or more from the hands
of Bunjuwuy, Burandai, Mawalan, Pan-
damunni, Dannjguwuy, Jawa and others
(NE Arnhem Land) carry through their
rhythmic structure all the feeling of
wonder in and harmony with the environ-
ment of the work. These experiences,
however, removed in terms of civilisation
and artistic symbology, can be sensed.
Occasionally one is made aware as in a
few of Burandai’s paintings the grandeur
and dignity of the mythological con-
cepts themselves.
John Olsen’s paintings and gouaches
have brightened up considerably in the
time since his last one man show at
Clune's. Insistent infantilisms of draw-
ing fill these 30 items with contradiction
—the spectacle of a sophisticated artist
dipping into the mind of a child whose
first instinct is one of imitation of the
adult. Like Klee, whose attitude at times
sought child-like directness, Olsen plung-
es into vicarious experience, “goes for
a walk” as it were “with a line”, but un-
like Klee he keeps on walking. The line
spawns and proliferates, images form


themselves or dissolve into vegetable-
animal ambiguity, random events crowd
in until the whole becomes an intoxicated
ravioli wherein artists and experience
are sunk in chaos, the identity of both is
lost. The problem exists in the fact of
translating events in time into special
terms and, though the attempt here is
to release the hidden energies of the sub-
conscious, there is little of the order the
subconscious imposes on material it re-
ceives.
John Olsen does however manage a
broad distinction in the kind of treat-
ment he gives each subject. He exploits
the humor, brashness and venality of the
“Australian” image, alternately shouting
and thumbing his nose. One is never quite
sure whether he is uncovering a scintilla-
ting new vision or just raising bulldust
in the general formlessness. If they hang
together these paintings do so because of
an animating euphoria of mood rather
than of structural vitality. Nevertheless in
spite of all this unevenness paintings like
“Reflections on a Marine Venus” produce
a harmony of gloomy greens and con-
trasts, with painterly handling of pro-
fessional achievement.
JOHN HENSHAW
MUSIC
WITHIN LIMITATIONS
Carmen. NSW Repertory Opera.
Anzac House, Sydney.
Orchestral Concert. Sydney Chamber
Orchestra. Great Hall, Sydney
University.
•Tlhe cramped and inadequate stage fac-
ilities at Anzac House put the NSW
Repertory Opera’s production of “Car-
men” under a severe initial disadvantage.
Despite some good acting from the
principals, it seemed at times, particu-
larly when the chorus was on stage, that
a great opera had been scaled down to
the proportions of a musical comedy.
The substitution of two pianos for
Bizet’s colorful orchestra helped re-
inforce this impression, and Douglas
Parnell’s production was able to do little
to remove it.
This deficiency stems from the fact
that the Repertory Opera is an ama-
teur body, and can hardly be expected
to put on a full-scale, expertly produced
production in a well-equipped theatre.
But it does suggest that this group
might well turn its limitations into ad-
vantages by trying the experiment of
putting a grand opera on in chamber
opera style. “Carmen” would have been
a good subject for this the chorus
could have been reduced in size, the
scenery made less implausibly realistic,
and the acting and stage movements
made, as it were, less operatic and more
theatrical. The resources of the company
would be seen to better advantage in
this kind of venture than in any attempt
to put on grand opera under unfavorable
conditions.
Of the singers in the second night’s
cast, Marion Miller and Roy Ramsden
were excellent as Micaela and Don Jose.
Both sang with style and assurance, and
Mr Ramsden acted very well. Jacqueline
Silver, who sang Carmen, has an attrac-
tive voice, but her singing was marred
by a disfiguring wobble in her high
register which spoiled the climaxes of a
couple of her arias. Douglas Parnell was
strong and dominating as Escamillo, a
part which he took over at short notice.
The Sydney Chamber Orchestra’s pro-
gramme for its second public concert in-
cluded Bach’s First Clavier Concerto,
with Albert Landa, the group’s con-
ductor, as soloist. The playing in this
work was of a very high quality. The
tone and balance were first rate, there
was no significant inaccuracy or hesitancy
in attack, even when Mr Landa was con-
centrating on the solo part, and the work
was played with a great deal of drive.
Some of Mr Landa’s interpretative de-
vices seemed rather finicky, for instance,
the slight but deliberate changes of tem-
po and the peculiar and quite unwarran-
ted alteration to the dynamics of the
theme of the second movement. How-
ever, the performance was one of which
he and his group may justly be proud.
JOHN SMALL
TELEVISION
PROPER STUDY OF MANKIND
Tn a filmed sequence of less than 10
minutes the ABC has proved that
lack of technical facilities is not to
blame for the static camerawork in most
of the local television plays. The se-
quence occurred in a new University of
the Air series called “Living Man,” and
it showed that sometimes the only faci-
lities necessary are a camera and some
imagination. The producer, John Power,
has been through the mill of news and
documentaries, possibly a better place
to learn how to dramatise for television.
There have been hints of this in “Four
Corners” too.
The narrator for the new University
series, Professor John Clark, began with
the ideal that the proper study of man-
kind is man — and that, man, is psy-
chology. Not the popular conception of
it, he pointed out, and there was a fine
short sequence of a barber lathering a
customer and arguing about a fighter,
misusing psychological terms which
Clark suggested he’d picked up from
Sunday papers and popular magazines.
And, I suggest, television, where even
the Westerners mumble about motiva-
tions and guilt complexes.
Short film clips were used to show
many of man’s characteristics; old
movie shots of attempts to fly, Griffith
killing Paret in the ring, a racing driver
spinning out and overturning his car,
surgeons at work, “man is not frightened
to gamble his life, nor does he stint to
save it.”
Then Professor Clark brought his
viewers to the specially filmed sequence
of an experiment in which a student was
deprived of the use of all senses except
perhaps smell, which was not much use
to him on a couch in a glassed enclo-
sure. We saw the deprivation begin to
affect him increasingly until he was
writhing and suffering hallucinations. In
one he went in slow motion to a cliff
edge and, after a time, jumped. The
camera below caught him as his feet left
the ground, and then spun as the rocks
and the sea might if one was falling to
them.
All of this was done imaginatively and
dramatically, except for some audible
thoughts which were an unnecessary in-
trusion. It was clear enough what the
man was suffering, surprising enough
to make one wonder. Then followed
sequences in which a truck driver sped
along a hypnotic white line at night,
with his own commentary on his job;
and retarded children were viewed in
both institutional and “home” en-
vironments.
You will probably disagree with many
of the ideas Professor Clark offers as
fact, but I think you will admire the
way those ideas are made impressive
with intelligent use of film and graphics,
and wonder why nothing in alleged tele-
vision drama is as simply dramatic as
one sequence in which two schoolboys
trip a girl and look back with amuse-
ment as she fumbles for her dropped
books.
It was incidental. Clark needed it
to illustrate a point that trials make char-
acter, and sheltering is not good for
youth. It was shot outdoors, it needed no
dialogue, and the three participants be-
haved rather than acted. It was go°d
television.
FRANK ROBERTS


The UNITED
Insurance Co. Ltd.
(Inc. in New South Wales)
Security
::
-
Service
Head Office:
George and Hunter Streets, Sydney
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances
of every description
DIRECTORS:
J. W. Dunlop (Chairman), Sir Edward R.
Knox (Deputy-Chairman), R. J. Vicars,
A. Murray Jones, Hugh Dixson, D. A. T.
Dickins, K. B. Myers, A. E. Stephen, H. V.
Lawry (Alternate)
J. O. LEWIS, General Manager
THE RED PAGE
THE WRITERS WIFE
and the best portrait of D. H. Lawrence
By KYLIE TENNANT
Francis Brett Young. A Biography by
Jessica Brett Young, with a Preface
by C. P. Snow. Heinemann. 435. 6d.
Phis biography recalls the question
* raised once by Florence Hardy’s
life of Thomas Hardy is it not wiser
[or a wife to leave the fame of a writer
:o the astringent mercies of posterity?
Not that Francis Brett Young ever
made enemies; he was far too courteous,
far too much the country gentleman. He
was, as John Cowper Powys would say,
'a vicious monogamist,” totally devoted
and committed to a charming wife, a
nan surrounded by an ever-widening
circle of appreciative friends and ad-
mirers.
As one of the Georgian poets, his deli-
cate lyrics set him in the flight of those
ivho, like Rupert Brooke, were making
the England of pre-1914 a nest of singing
birds. His wife was a singer and Brett
Young, slaving as a poor doctor, still
fought for time to write novels which
brought him praise but little money.
When others of those golden years
were blasted into oblivion and clay
Francis Brett Young survived, chronically
ill from malaria, unable after his return
from the East African campaign to face
the drudgery of medical practice. His
war book, “Marching on Tanga,” won
him esteem but did not sell, and he
retired to Capri to make a living by the
tnormous industry of his novel writing.
Compton Mackenzie, Axel Munthe
ffld D. H. Lawrence found in this steady,
reticent man the welcome opposite to
rheir own qualities. There has never been
! better portrait of Lawrence than in this
entertaining account of that time on
Capri when Lawrence was unable to
*nte, and was making sure that no one
( lse did. The Brett Youngs joined him in
® unhappy house-hunting expedition he
»ade to Sicily and suffered from the
Miotional prickly heat which Lawrence
Senerated wherever he went.
They were marooned on railway
Nations: “D. H. restless and angry,
francis . . . probably planning some new
s °ok in his head ...D. H. paced up
W down, spread newspaper on the dirty
platform and sat on it, his feet dangling
• Ver the rails. He said that if Freida
3( 1 been there she would have said it
all his fault.”
The Brett Youngs, with admirable re-
straint, did not tell him Freida would
have been right. They had to sleep
three in a room with Lawrence talking,
groaning and quarrelling with someone
in his sleep. Francis wrote to a friend,
“We had a hell of a time ... a more
timid, sensitive, violent, boastful, brazen
creature it would be impossible to con-
ceive. And we never once quarrelled!”
Was Francis Brett Young’s courteous
good-nature, that quality which would
prevent him from quarrelling with Law-
rence, Fate, his publisher or the other
ills with which he was beset, a strength
or a weakness? He admired much of
Lawrence’s work, but took him lightly
and indulgently. He skimmed over him,
and you get the feeling that he skimmed
over much that was distasteful to him.
Commenting on “The Lost Girl,” that
book in which “Lawrence’s heroine had
preserved her virginity to the age of
thirty,” Francis Brett Young wrote, “The
first part is readable, the middle, in my
humble opinion, sheer tosh, the end ad-
mirable . . As the cobbler to his last,
he must stick to his ohallus.’'
Brett Young’s own books were far
from Phallic. The long, slow novels
about Warwickshire on which he finally
made his name were written with beauty
and distinction,” “graceful, dignified, with
a mystic quality which he achieved with
such a sure touch.” And his diary—
both he and his wife kept diaries —has
such praiseworthy entries as “41,000
words in 19 days. What a relief!” But
the man himself is curiously shadowy.
His wife’s charming biography, which
gives such shrewd pictures of the men
of letters among whom he lived, leaves
her husband in such a lustre that his fea-
tures are almost indistinguishable. Like
Charles Stuart, “he nothing common did,
or mean.” He was a Warwickshire
gentleman, never more happy than when
fishing a trout stream living in a fine
Adams house when success came to him,
not very careful of money, generous,
overworked. Axel Munthe dedicated to
him “The Story of San Michele” and
valued him highly. So did the more
flamboyant Compton Mackenzie and
Hugh Walpole, who appreciated his
verdict on Maugham’s “Cakes and Ale”
—a “piece of dastardly ill-humor.”
If Brett Young ultimately enjoyed
great success, he had had many years of
hardship and debt. (“I’ve been writing
for ten years, and >et they don’t pay
me the salary of a railwayman, let alone
a miner . . . Whatever the end of it be,
nothing shall induce me to write pot-
boilers or waste my substance on journal-
ism.”) It was this singleness of mind
that carried him through, together with
a change of publisher and recognition in
the United States. “Portrait of Clare,”
that “dreadful, enormous Midland novel”
of 270,000 words, was a book which
began the vogue for the long novels of
the ’3os.
“I’m afraid I’ve deliberately limited my
reading public to the inhabitants of
country vicarages,” he wrote once to a
friend, “but then, as you know, I grow
more like a country vicar every year.”
People of the middle classes had tired
of flaming young things. They liked,
and some probably still like, the solidity
and peacefulness, the story-telling skill
of Brett Young. He must have raised a
well-bred eyebrow that “Portrait of
Clare” should have come out in America
as “Love is Enough.” But it sold. Many
will remember books such as “My
Brother Jonathan” as films.
One of the curious but likeable singu-
larities of Francis Brett Young was that
during World War 11, with his life of a
country gentleman falling into a squalor
of evacuees with children who had
whooping cough, he took refuge in that
long epic poem about England he called
“The Island.” Against the discourage-
ment of friends, who said it would sell
a hundred copies, in the midst of war
work he stuck to it. The house and
estate he loved were up for sale (“giving
up Craycombe broke his heart”); he was
beset by heart attacks, but he labored on
“The Island” for four years. It sold
40,000 copies.
This was a stupendous surprise not
only to Francis Brett Young but to those
who misjudged the British people. Brett


PRESS CLIPPINGS
WILL TELL YOU
Keep fully informed by letting us
supply you, or your office, with
press clippings on any subject in
which you are interested.
We offer a complete coverage of
newspapers and magazines, all
States, city and country. This
press clipping service enables you
to keep a complete tab on any
matter—your company, trade or
profession, financial news, com-
pany reports, publicity mentions,
new industries, political and
editorial mentions, publicity
checks, press releases, sales
leads, competitors' news.
We will supply clippings on
any subject you may care
to specify.
A.N.Z. PRESS CLIPPING SERVICE,
199 Liverpool St., SYDNEY. 61-4230.
Young was the mirror reflection of British
patriotism, a little stilted and self-consci-
ous, rather boring to those who did not
share, but wholly admirable.
He had written two highly successful
novels about South Africa (“The City of
Gold” makes ironic reading today) and
he spent most of his last years there,
acclaimed as an adopted South African
writer. He had been the friend of Smuts
and had fought in Tanganyika. His last
book, ‘ln South Africa,” which he called
“a tourist brochure,” was a Book Society
recommendation, for he still had the
sure touch.
It is hard to find fault with a man for
being a little above the meaner sort. He
was indeed le Chevalier sans peur et sans
reproche. Jessica Brett Young’s bio-
graphy of him is of sufficient interest
and value for its deft and lively portraits,
its details of the writer’s life, to justify
many times over the slight uneasiness one
must feel at so much devotion. There
are quotations from letters from Baldwin,
Lloyd George, Charles Morgan, Louis
Golding, John Squire and many other
friends of Brett Young, which illuminate
a period. The book is a labor of such
love that, even in our colder age, we
should ask amiss to have it other than
it is.
NEW ZEALAND'S WILD WEST
The West Coast Gold Rushes. Philip
Ross May. Pegasus Press. 375. 6d.
A mystery of the literary world is why
New Zealand can turn out works
about its pristine days of such solid
historical worth by comparison with
those about earliest Australia. We have
to go across the Tasman for a really
capable editor for Cook’s voyages and
very little of the basic wealth of docu-
mentation available in the Mitchell Lib-
rary has been put through treatment to
extract such volumes as A. H. McLin-
tock’s The History of Otago , a monu-
mental tome of 789 pages not counting
copious reference notes and bibliography,
or Sir James Hight's and C. R. Straubel’s
A History of Canterbury, or Burden’s
biography of Richard Seddon, or such
characteristic efforts as The Wild West
Coast and now Philip Ross May’s The
West Coast Gold Rushes, another monu-
mental effort of more than 500 pages
plus appendices of statistics and histor-
ical matter, reference notes, bibliography
and index and a magnificent collection
of photographs and plans. This book is
produced with the aid of the New Zea-
land Literary Fund, the University of
Canterbury, The Carnegie Social Science
Research Committee and the Westland
Centennial Council. It represents some-
thing far ahead of most of the offerings
to concealed unemployment which the
Commonwealth Literary Fund makes at
a venture, even though it perhaps belongs
to a classification which is not considered
in Canberra to be “literary”.
It may not be; but it is a source book
par excellence. And one wonders why
there are not a dozen like it about the
Australian goldfields of which the litera-
ture is a barren waste save for a few
untutored efforts. Our goldfields like
Ophir, and Araluen and Moruya, Lamb-
ing Flat and the Palmer especially, apart
from a hundred other earlier ones, pre-
sent magnificent material for literary
effort. They were richer in gold and sur-
prises. They had more fights, including
Eureka (if fight that helter-skelter could
be called). They had more Chinamen,
leprosy, wild women, thirst, blackfellows,
bushrangers and first class prevaricators
than the New Zealanders can offer, but
the view of them from the distances of
the present century is depressingly
tame.
Not so New Zealand. The West Coast
had something of the same atmosphere
as California, glorying in its naughtiness,
its drunkenness, its rebelliousness, its wild
men, its wild women, its wild Maoris and
its wild pigs, not to mention its wild
journalists, some of whom emigrated to
Australia, where one of them was once
reputed to have led an elephant up the
steps of Canberra’s Parliament House.
Amost from the beginning of NZ
settlement and exploration the pioneers
of the rough South Island sought gold
deliberately. California of ’49 spurred
the longing to find it. Hargreaves at
Ophir added more than a pinch of in-
centive. The year after his discovery an
ex-Californian digger claimed, within a
week of its being offered, the reward of
£5OO offered by Auckland merchants
for the discovery of gold. His reward
claim was at Kapanga Creek, Coroman-
del, and though he had little gold to
show he had started the search in earn-
est, though it was not till 1861 that
hundreds of men were
Drawing their bills on Mother Earth’s
exchequer
With pick, shovel, and washing dish.
In the early 1860 s the whole NZ
Wild West was a series of rushes full
of ladies of easy virtue and Jews with
scales and rough boys hunting "each
other with guns and axes in the outlands;
and a government was apt to be repre-
sented by “a police force without a
magistrate, and a hybrid Government
Agent—half storekeeper, half consul—
with nothing to do, no power to act and
no power to enforce authority if he had
any”.
The gold at first was “tucker gold”
scattered like seed thrown to chickens
over dense bush and numerous rugged
river valleys stocked with every obstacle
contrivable by nature or man.
But this did not prevent thousands of
diggers rushing or climbing in in in-
creasing volume until in 1864 the tracks
and roads were packed with men on foot,
driving packhorses, pushing handcarts
and wheelbarrows, so that in one week
of March 1,000 of them passed through
one pass and towns were spawned by the
dozen in mere months.
New Zealand produced 17,146,627
ozs. of gold between 1857 and 1905, of
which 6.5 million ounces came from the
West Coast, 6.5 million from Otago and
3.7 million roughly from Auckland pro-
vince.
And it appears to have enjoyed itself
in getting it despite the insertion into the
goldfields pioneering period of the last
Maori War.
M. H. ELLIS
MARX THE LIBERTARIAN
The Ethical Foundations of Marxism.
Eugene Kamenka. Routledge and
Kegan Paul. 495. 9d.
study of Marx is beset by two
major difficulties: one is that the enter-
prise is often confounded with the study
of contemporary Communism re-
lated to Marxism in many complex and
paradoxical ways but not identical with
it. The other is due to the fact that on
philosophy, as against sociology and
political economy, Marx was a very un-
systematic writer. The much more syste-
matic philosophical work of the simple-
minded Engels cannot be taken to rep-
resent Marx’s own views in all their
elusive subtlety. Among serious students
of Marx the major bone of contention


is, at present, the status of Marx’s ex-
plicitly philosophical theses which include
garx’s only available explicit statements
jf ethical principles. They are all con-
fined in Marx’s early writings, some of
ihem mere fragments, perhaps not in-
tended for publication, and they were
ill written by a man under 30, who did
jot yet possess the enormous knowledge
jbout society and the power as research-
rorker which are characteristic of the
nature Marx. They were also very
strongly influenced by neo-Hegelian
philosophical doctrines which the older
garx emphatically rejected.
Some scholars, for example Sidney
Hook, hold that a thinker should not be
judged from partly discarded juvenilia,
ind that not much can be made of
kfarx’s early work. Others maintain that
Marx’s early writings are of fundamental
mportance in that they contain the only
atensive and explicit statement of his
:thical beliefs, which can be traced as
instated assumptions in his later factual
studies of society. The latter view is
favored by East European revisionist
ihilosophers and anti-totalitarian rebels,
iho use the moral fervor of the young
Marx as a means to bait the Communist
power-elite. It is also the view put for-
ward in Dr Kamenka’s outstanding book,
; iy far the best study of Marx and Marx-
sm in Australia.
Kamenka presents Marx as a liber-
man in the true sense of the word. The
j ondamental “good” for Marx was the
ree, creative individual living in a co-
perative community of other free cre-
live men. The main socio-political task
sMarx saw it was the liberation of man
ram ecclesiastical and political bondage.
I was not attainment of social security
>r even the creation of a “planned”
wreaucratic despotism. Kamenka goes
ery thoroughly into the famous Marx-
legelian doctrine of “alienation,” and,
nlike some other scholars, he does not
dismiss it as an inappropriate left-over
fthe Judeo-Christian myth of the Fall
i an otherwise naturalistic world view,
be alienated man is one who has lost
is freedom to taskmasters of his own
laking. He is ridden by mythical op-
ressive gods and by an economic or-
misation which condemns him to the
arbaric condition of living merely in
fder to keep alive.
Kamenka shows fairly convincingly
la t for Marx socialism and political
£ onomy were devices to attain morally
states. This has been said quite
'fen before, usually to debunk Marx’s
’apparently insincere pose of moral
Wralism. Yet it was usually supported
! imputing to Marx motives of an es-
;ntially shallow “philanthropic” nature,
lc h as egalitarianism, pity for the poor
f indignation” at their suffering. Yet
for Marx the supreme evil was certainly
not material want and physical suffering
per se, but human servility, the reduction
of man, the enterprising producer, to the
status of a manipulate commodity or
organism. This can and does, indeed,
happen under conditions of general afflu-
ence -
Kamenka also shows convincingly
Marx would not only reject the present
Soviet system unconditionally, but he
would reject with equal vigor the notion
that it will be a better system once every
slave gets a car and a fridge. Marx’s
ethic emerges from Kamenka’s analysis
as heroic, Promethean, nearer in spirit
to Nietzsche than to Dickens or the
Fabians.
Kamenka, like other competent Marx
scholars of integrity, has given short
shrift to the absurd notion that it was
the libertarian Marx who wished on us
the Soviet neanderthaler. Yet Kamenka
did not refute the possibility that Marx
may have been the neanderthaler’s god-
father in a more fundamental if unin-
tended sense. Marx’s moral ideal, the
fully autonomous man, is in part unin-
telligible, and partly in so far as it
implies complete independence from the
environment impossible. To entertain
it fully means to succumb to the temp-
tation “ye shall be like Gods” and to
invite necessary defeat and despair,
When conceived as a political pro-
gramme it must end in a farce (e.g. in
the formation of those ultra-egalitarian,
libertarian, and revolutionary organisa-
tions for undergraduates with five mem-
bers, lasting a fortnight) or in a totali-
tarian nightmare. It may also lead, as
happened with some Andersonians, to
an irresponsible withdrawal from active
political participation. The psycholo-
gical and political mechanisms which
show why this must be so are now much
better understood than they were in
Marx’s day.
An intelligent, anti-totalitarian liberal
will pay homage to Marx’s moral in-
tegrity and to the enormous amount of
good Marx has done in the fields of
philosophy and the social sciences, but
then he will pass on and continue to do
his duty in a permanently imperfect
world pursuing modest and realistic aims
through the dull, unheroic but workable
political organisations of Western social
democracy.
FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
IN THE TRANSLATOR'S HANDS
The Deserter. G. Dessi. Harvill. 20s.
On The Make. Überto Paolo Quinta-
valle. Harvill. 20s.
The Bluebottle. Ivan Valeriy. Harvill.
20s.
Tn assessing translations it is often diffi-
cult to decide how much praise or
blame is due to the translator. Isabel
Quigly for instance has, in the past,
made graceful and stylish translations of
Italian novels. She has now translated
Quintavalle’s “On the Make” and the
novel, whatever its other virtues or de-
fects, reads clumsily. Is the fault with
Isabel Quigly or with the author? Is it
that this particularly frothy confection
is simply not suited to Miss Quigly's
special talents? “The Bluebottle” consists
of two long stories, each with a different
English translator. I found the title
story desperately boring, but the second,
“Red and Black,” far more gripping and
much easier to read. Here both trans-
lations sound smooth enough in English,
so the difference may rest with the
author —or of course with me. As for
Dessi’s “The Deserter”, in Donata Origo
this winner of the Bagutta Prize would
seem to have a very good translator
indeed.
“The Deserter” is one of those short,
small-in-range novels which many Ital-
ian and French authors have favored in
recent years. Its simplicity is, I am sure,
intended to be deceptive. From a hand-
ful of central characters, one secret and
a circumscribed account of the begin-
nings of Fascism in a rural village, the
reader is intended to draw wide conclu-
sions about human behavior, politics,
religion, economic conflict and what have
you. The mode is fashionable and pre-
sumably popular, but I find it stingy and
yearn for the richness of a de Lampe-
dusa whose marvellous novel, “The
Leopard,” is still, significantly, being ad-
vertised on the back cover of this one.
“On the Make” is described in its
blurb as “a Milanese version of ‘La
Ronde —in which a small group of in-
dividuals spin in and out of each other’s
arms, lives and social circles”. Quin-
tavalle surely intended to entertain and
titillate fairly intelligent, moderately
sophisticated palates—a sort of Crepe
Suzette of a book—but if the pancake is
tough Crepe Suzette is a pretty sickly,
soggy morsel. One may, of course, learn
a little between the lines about northern
Italian industrialism and industrialists and
of the nature of present-day Milan—if
one wishes. One would probably be un-
wise to pay too much heed to exaggera-
tions arising from the nature of the skit.
But primarily one is asked to follow the
fortunes of Arabella, a tart from Rome
who decides that suckers are more
abundant in Milan. For this sort of thing
the language needs the consummate deli-
cacy of a Colette, or the up-to-the-minute
slanginess of the many American authors
in comparable fields. Especially grating
is the use of outmoded slang: “chums”,


“living it up”, “feeling whacked” and
people who “have to be on the go”.
Unfortunately, after three quarters of
the book even Arabella disappears and
with her the last of lightness.
“Ivan Valeriy is the pseudonym of a
Soviet writer who lives in the Soviet
Union. He has not been abroad but is
well read in the literature of the West”
says the cover. Stendhal and Sterne
seem to be his giants; extremely biting,
candid and disillusioned criticism of
Soviet life his field. Ivan Bluebelly who
alters his name to John Bluefly is the
hero of the first story —he is an erst-
while hack philosopher who undergoes
an ideological crisis after swotting a blue-
fly to death. Cornelius Apricot, profes-
sor of French literature, is the hero of
“Red and Black” —his crisis is of a differ-
ent order but directly attributable to the
Soviet-social constrictions that hedge his
full intellectual development. I cannot
know whether Valeriy truly blames his
country for the disasters of these
“heroes”, or whether he realises that he
has postulated characters who are almost
inevitably bound to be beset by similar
failures in any country or society one
cares to think of. One must be interested
in a book out of Russia which criticises
so bitterly and with such apparent free-
dom, but as works of art and as satire
Valeriy’s stories leave a good deal to be
desired.
NANCY KEESING
ALL ABOUT ELEPHANTS
Elephants. Richard Carrington. Peli-
can. 12s. 6d.
No Room in the Ark. Alan Moorehead.
Penguin. 7s. 6d.
"TV.ephants consume from one to sev-
eral hundredweight of green stuff a
day and are messy eaters, often tramp-
ling, breaking down and generally laying
waste more of the vegetation than they
take in. They have a lordly air, due to
their size and to their long ancestry—
they have been around, as an order, some
60 million years.
The family used to have 350 branches
but now has two, the African elephant
and the Asiatic. The African branch
was in danger of extinction 50 years ago,
but is now doing better despite constant
ivory poaching and huge African popu-
lations with a hunger for meat.
The female throws about one calf
every three years, and the Asiatic cows
lose 25 per cent, of their young to tigers.
Elephants would be very easy to kill out;
there are probably fewer than 250,000
in the world. Dedicated conservationists
have fought long and hard for the ele-
phants’ survival, and they have more
trouble ahead. Many fear that the new
African nations will have no very tender
regard for any animals except cattle, and
it may be the same in Asia when enough
tractors make elephant power obsolete.
African graziers, black or white, re-
gard elephants with the same affection
our station owners have for kangaroos.
In the future, Africa’s elephants and
other herbivores may survive only
through an accepted system of judicious
culling, which would limit their numbers,
calm their enemies, enable their friends
to control their movements, and possibly
ensure their survival, provided no sudden
disease wipes out the culled ones.
These are a few of the facts in the
Penguin edition of Alan Moorehead’s
1959 book, “No Room in the Ark”, and
Richard Carrington’.} Pelican issue of
“Elephants”. Carrington is a scientist,
and looks at the elephant order’s “natural
history, evolution, and influence on man-
kind”. He treats each of these aspects
in a much racier way than the usual
scientific study, larding the natural his-
tory with many cheerful asides on ele-
phant characteristics which include a
liking for booze in any form, and a great
capacity for affection towards one an-
other.
Alan Moorehead’s observations are
mostly of this kind—humanist and hum-
orous and unclinical. Elephant tales such
as that of a bull which developed a grand
passion for bananas, began overturning
trucks and cars in its frantic search for
them, and finally had to be shot are
episodes along the way in his descriptions
of fairly recent travels in Africa’s many
landscapes and many strange, self-con-
tained worlds. The Penguin edition is
valuable at this time for Moorehead’s
inquiries into, stories about, and thoughts
on wildlife conservation.
His book is almost entirely about
native animals, people and their habitats.
He says “the great majority of Africans
have never seen an elephant . . . and
the average African child is probably
much more ignorant about wildlife than
any school boy or girl in London or New
York”. As Moorehead told a lonely
Belgian border guard who thought Aus-
tralia must be a wonderful country,
“parts of it are quite like Africa in many
ways”. The guard looked at him in
dismay.
“No Room in the Ark” is a delightful
book. Moorehead would certainly agree
with Carrington’s closing remark that
“a compassionate interest in the welfare
of animals less advanced in the evolu-
tionary scale than ourselves is an essen-
tial component in the character of the
truly civilised man”. If you agree, then
you will find both books worth your
while.
FRANK ROBERTS
ONE-ACTERS
Australian One-Act Plays. Edited by
Greg Branson. Rigby. ss. 6d.
ff*HE old fashioned one-act play existed
A essentially as a theatrical exercise, so
much so that the raison d’etre of scores
of cheap editions '“of French’s one-act
plays was merely to provide romps for
the legion of amateur theatrical groups
of the English-speaking world. James
Barrie’s well-made trivia provide the
classic examples of this genre.
In the flux of drama of the last gen-
eration the one-act play has tended to
lose its traditional form. The condensed
plot-line one-acter has been replaced
largely by the mood character-sketch,
paralleling the development of the short
story. The one-act plays of Tennessee
Williams are probably the most success-
ful body of work of this kind. Pinter
represents a modern British exponent.
The theatre of the absurd playwrights
have also favored the brief form for their
dicta.
Rigby’s second volume of one-act
plays, edited by the Adelaide literary
agent Greg Branson contains examples of
both the plot-line and the mood one-
acters.
Oriel Gray creates a sketch of Law-
son, down and out in London, with his
memories acted out. She achieves the
refreshing feat of mentioning Lawson
without tutt-tutting over his drinking
habits. Colin Ballantyne provides a well-
constructed, straight-forward semi-docu-
mentary piece based on the Mad Turk of
Broken Hill, late in World War One.
John Naish has a soggy, turgid play
about a culturally ambitious cane-cutter
who has married the daughter of a
knighted portrait painter and desires to
prove himself as an artist. Laurence
Collison contributes a crisis in a Mel-
bourne Jewish family, iohn Dunmore
has a dreary exercise to be played in “the
atmosphere ... of lonesco and Simpson”.
It ends with tw'o frustrated would-be
suicide teenagers chewing gum and
agreeing “People are horrid! Horrid!”
At the end of the book one is left
lamenting, even more than with the first
of the series, the quality of the dialogue.
There is too much of the literary about
the dialogue of all five plays. The lan-
guage never lives or moves. This is not
a problem of idiom but rather the ear
for movement and necessary dramatic
Violence in speech. It has been a continu-
ing problem within the small body of
Australian drama since the Doll.
RICHARD HALL


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Industry optimistic, but less definite
* ustralian businessmen are optimistic for the next six
\ months, but they are less sanguine than they were last
November.
Their doubts and inconsistencies have been nowhere more
revealingly displayed than in the latest survey of industrial
trends put out jointly by the Associated Chambers of Manu-
facturers and the Bank of NSW. We are all trying to sense
precisely what a halt in confidence really means. Here is its
statistical skeleton.
One decided merit of this survey comes from its freshness.
Covering 323 representative companies and their reactions
to the November-March period, use of computer techniques
enabled the analysis to be finished quickly after March 12,
the closing date for replies. The questions had gone out only
a fortnight before.
Admittedly the method of questioning, based on a scheme
devised by the Federation of British Industries, is rather
subjective compared with a complete statistician’s barrage.
But it presents an immediacy of mood, the swift reflection of
the high executives who answer the poll.
They are, by a solid majority, optimistic for the short term.
However, the margin of optimism for the general business
situation to improve over the next six months has been slightly
pruned since November, when the previous survey was made.
Now some contradictions begin to emerge. Fair hopes for
the future exist despite a slackening of new orders, slower
clearance of finished stocks, and a limited revival in capital
expenditure programmes.
Much of that hesitancy and division of opinion is paralleled
in other sources, notably company interim reports and the
uneven progress of some production figures. These sources
and the survey also agree roughly on the measure of under-
capacity at which the economy is working.
About three-fifths of the ACMA-bank sample still operates
helow capacity, almost the same proportion as last November.
A shortage of orders among 65 p.c. of the companies prevents
the expansion of output.
Two significant groups, well apart from the buoyant motor
vehicle industry, do show marked increases in both employment
und output. They are chemicals and paper and printing
mdustries. Their position has also received confirmation in
a string of recent interim statements.
The ACMA-bank survey in November discovered an accel-
erating movement in both production and employment. So
m uch so that shortages of labor and capacity began to be
visible.
The position now is moderated. Production and employment
advances continue, though they are less widespread.
Perhaps the shakiest ground on which to erect optimism
" ! °uld appear to be industry’s own forecast of expected capital
K Penditure. Though plant and machinery additions look like
Creasing fairly strongly, spending on new buildings may
re ®ain practically unchanged and certainly will not expand
lts November improvement.
Tet, despite the oddly dismal background to the foregoing
catalogue, the plain fact stands out that business in itself is
optimistic. There resides the best possible foundation to gen-
erate a continuously expansive feeling.
To that extent, business attempts to concoct its own best
remedy against any lingering hesitation: a feeling that confi-
dence in the future appears now to seem thoroughly justified.
At this stage, of course, every outside encouragement will
be required. Hence it is not unfair for industry to ask for a
clearer picture of the Federal Government’s economic inten-
tions.
The case for that disclosure was examined last week by
the Commercial Bank of Australia. We outline the bank’s
ideas below. They constitute the necessary completion of all
the present elements goading business to advancement.
We cannot leave the ACMA-Wales survey without noticing
that, even during the uncertain November-March period,
export orders and export deliveries continued favorably.
Indeed, improvement has been more widespread than at any
time during the last two years.
BANK ADVOCACY OF
TARGET PLANNING
public debate on target or indicative planning is greatly
aided by the Commercial Bank of Australia’s economic
review for March. Perhaps only an afterthought dictated an
editorial’s headline, “Targets for Expansion Needed”, but the
bank’s intention looks very plain.
“If the Government is to allay the scepticism of commerce
and industry it should state clearly its intentions and nominate
the rate at which Gross National Product should grow,” the
review asserts.
An important merit of its argument rests in allying this
general viewpoint with the prevalent mood and needs of Aus-
tralian business. Everyone knows that most indicators are
roughly back to healthy levels. Yet “business confidence still
remains, on the surface, hesitant.”
The Bulletin has frequently pointed out how commerce
and industry could do a good deal more to help themselves,
without always turning to Government. Nevertheless it sounds
undeniable that “what the businessman seems to need is evi-
dence that the Government will allow the present healthy signs
of solid expansion to continue.”
That kind of demand for reassurance, the bank maintains,
arises from the Government’s own decision to act “with such
a display of force” in 1960. By so doing the Government
brought upon itself a responsibility “to so inform the nation
of its future policies, that forward decisions can be made with
certainty.”
Mere information on budgetary and monetary policies, how-
ever, is far from sufficient. The bank joins an increasing
number of those asking for official statements on future
expected growth rates.
That special kind of clarification grows all the more urgent


in the light of a current advance in GNP. Business must know
whether the Government believes the forward impetus is too
rapid or not.
The bank optimistically hopes that the just activated econ-
omic inquiry may “alert both the Government and business-
men to the practical possibilities in our economy.”
To calm the fearful, it judiciously concludes that “this does
not necessarily mean that planning is automatically handed
over to the authorities but published and known goals will
assist decision making.”
The economic vigor of France and Japan surely provides
an example for us. The time is past when the device of setting
targets can be attacked as radical interference with a basically
free-enterprise system.
SIR ROBERT KNOX
POINTS A BONE
HThe life companies could be excused for having an axe to
-*• grind on the score of urging the Government to scrap or
water down the 30/20 rule which obliges them to divert so
much of their investible funds into Government and semi-
Government securities.
On the other hand, while this rule is in force one would
expect them to be quite pleased with the high returns the
Government is affording them on the money they have to put
into its bonds. Indeed, if these great institutions in a moment
of unlikely irresponsibility supported high interest rates on
bonds and semi-governments, nobody would really blame
them, especially their legions of policy holders who take a jaun-
diced view of the denial to the companies of free choice in
their selection of types of investment.
So coming from Sir Robert Knox, chairman of the National
Mutual Life Association of Australia, at the annual meeting
in Melbourne last week, the strong condemnation of high
interest rates should be taken to heart in the Treasury, the
more so in that the National Mutual was able to tell its policy
holders that last year it recorded the highest earning rate on its
assured funds in its 60 years’ history.
He made it as plain as a pikestaff that the legislation which
provides certain tax concessions to life offices which had more
than 30 p.c. of their funds in public securities made
mortgage and other non-fixed interest investments unattractive
unless they carried rates of interest from 2 to 2T p.c.
higher than bond rate. This is the point that The Bulletin
has been trying to bring home for a long time, but the
Treasury still seems to neglect it.
Sir Robert said that it could have been expected that the
slackening of the pressures of economic expansion and immi-
gration after 1960 would have resulted in a drop in interest
rates, but this was ruled out by the provisions of the 30/20
legislation.
He thinks the success of the recent Government loan, to
which the life offices subscribed about £2O million, should
be a powerful influence to persuade the Government to repeal
the legislation. Also, with long-term bond rate at 5 p.c.
(market redemption yields are now slightly below that) it is
pretty clear that a cut in that rate is overdue.
It is not a proposition for the life offices to take less than
7 p.c. on private sector fixed interest paper when the
Government is offering 5 p.c. on bonds. After all, if
the life offices, as the biggest institutional investors in the
country, are uninterested in lending at less than 7 p.c. on
fixed interest to the private sector, it is not so hard to explain
the disheartening level of gross fixed private investment, the
slow pace of industrial expansion, or for that matter the poor
flow of funds into share investment.
EXPORT FINANCE AGAIN
UNDER FIRE
TI/ell-founded pleas for an export bank and better long.
” term credit facilities were advanced last week by the
vigorous Metal Trades Export Group. They deserve official
attention, since Australia’s so-called export drive must not be
allowed to languish for lack of adequate financial backing.
Similar demands have, of course, been made before. The
answer usually comes that normal bank finance and latterly
the term lending fund provide sufficient resources for our
manufacturing exporters.
The export group’s chairman (Mr W. J. Austen) sounds
sceptical about the fund in his annual report. He can describe
it as “only a very small step in the right direction.”
Mr Austen believes the system does not go nearly far
enough in aiding the major export of manufactured goods
and is not surprised that the fund has not been drawn on
very much.
Valuable business, especially in engineering capital equip-
ment, seems available if Australian manufacturers are able to
match competitors’ credit terms. “Enormous” markets in
India, Pakistan, Indonesia and other developing countries will
be 'more easily cultivated by offering longer payment periods
at low interest rates.
That could become the specific function of an export bank.
But the bank would also need supplementing by tied loans in
selected cases —“tied in the sense that the loans may be used
only for the purpose of importing goods from the country
making the loan.”
Many people look askance at Australia, a capital importing
country, exporting capital in this fashion. Mr Austen admits
the logic of that attitude, “on the theoretical plane”.
But he considers it “completely ignores the practical aspect
of developing export trade.” Any delay in meeting conditions
flourished by overseas competitors jeopardises the future of
industrial exports.
“Growth will be slow but sure over the next five years and
then we will start to make a real impact on the markets”:
that’s the prospect the group holds out.
A FEMALE SCHEME
OF ARRANGEMENT
A woman shareholder at the Factors Ltd meeting in Mel-
bourne last week, when a scheme of arrangement to carry
on the company was adopted, said the directors of Factors
Ltd were foolish to lend Stanhill the money. She also asked
if there had been collusion between the boards of the two
companies.
Shades of the film “Solid Gold Cadillac,” in which a woman
shareholder continually asked embarrassing questions!
The woman shareholder’s criticism of Factors evidently
sprang from the similarity of the two boards of directors.
Stanhill and Factors both had a strong flavoring of the Korman
family and associates.
Perhaps if more women shareholders took an active interest
in company affairs, directors generally would have more
respect for shareholder relationships.
Women shareholders outnumber men in the USA and the
tendency is developing in Australia, too. This is partly because
women live longer and partly because shares are placed w
their names for tax and probate reasons.
Directors usually do not like to answer women’s questions
at annual meetings. Technical knowledge aside, their queries
often are more penetrating.
Directors on occasion need to be reminded they are trustees
and not entrepreneurs.


YOUR
COMPANY CARS!
SAVE
ADMINISTRATION
* :V ■ ■
CONSERVE
CAPITAL
INCREASE
PROFITS
KAYS AUTO-LEASE
• Eliminates the necessity of tying up valuable working capital
• Eliminates company transport administration.
• Enables accurate budgeting with no detailed accounting.
• Offers free replacement transport in case of accidents or breakdown.
• Eliminates all contingencies arising out of company ownership.
Let Kays show you the economics and numerous benefits to be derived
through their fully maintenanced vehicle leasing plans.
AYS
LEASING CORP.
PTY. LTD.
A UNIT OF KAY CORPORATION LIMITED
MELBOURNE
(HEAD OFFICE)
18-30 MT. ALEXANDER RD.
33 0431
SYDNEY
106 WILLIAM ST. 31 6621
BRISBANE
40 TANK ST. 2 5837
ADELAIDE
17 TAVISTOCK ST. 8 6486
LAUNCESTON
100 GEORGE ST. 2 4894
REPAIRING public
INVESTMENT
CONFIDENCE
The Stock Exchange Chairman, Mr A.
H. Urquhart, sounds almost hurt in
his “Chairman’s Message” or foreword to
the Sydney Stock Exchange annual re-
port for 1962.
“The Stock Exchanges cannot guaran-
tee the success of listed companies for
this depends on management and general
economic conditions,” he says in refer-
ring to the serious and far-reaching com-
pany collapses faced by investors in 1962.
His remark is prompted by some ap-
parent criticism of the Stock Exchange’s
role as watchdog for the public.
It is true that many investors have
been bewildered and confused by some
of the company crashes, particularly the
debenture debacles. Naturally enough,
the gilt-edged or fixed-interest investors
thought they were protected by deben-
ture trust deeds and, when the crashes
came, such investors were inclined to
say, “Why can’t the Stock Exchange do
something about this?”
Mr Urquhart says the Exchanges “do
attempt to lay down certain requirements
of listed companies designed to protect
the interests of the investor and to en-
sure that he and the sharebroker are as
well informed as possible on the progress
of companies, and are thereby in a posi-
tion to make a reasoned assessment of
the value of company securities.
“Within these limits the Sydney Stock
Exchange in conjunction with the other
Australian Exchanges and the Govern-
ment authorities, has never shirked its
responsibilities. The public can be assur-
ed that Sydney Stock Exchange, as a
member of the Australian Associated
Stock Exchanges, is doing everything
within its power to minimise the possi-
bility of a recurrence of the happenings
of 1962.”
That Mr Urquhart sounds hurt, and
that the Stock Exchanges have been
prodded and upset by the “far-reach-
ing company collapses” is a good thing.
Ever tighter regulations and supervision
designed to protect the investing public
are necessary equipment in building a
sound securities market. If the Stock Ex-
changes believe Australia can afford to
do without a Securities Commission, such
as they have in the USA, then it must
be shown that its own administration
and control is equally effective. This, of
course, can apply only to listed securities.
There is no doubt the Sydney Stock
Exchange is doing a good job in a rapidly
expanding securities market. The com-
mittee will encourage continued confi-
dence if it diligently shows it is helping
to mend those gaps torn in public con-
fidence during 1961-62.
This year’s Sydney Stock Exchange
report is designed for the first time as a
separate document for public consump-
tion. It is a step in the right direction.
HOW DID THE STOCK
EXCHANGE FAREf
Sydney Stock Exchange made a
net profit of £19,603 for the year to
December 1962 after £6OOO tax and
provisions of £3OOO for long service
leave, and £5OOO for deferred main-
tenance.
It is not entitled to win the balance
sheet award for the year because it did
not make comparisons with the previous
year.
The net profit raises members’ ac-
cumulated funds to £589,732. These
funds are represented mainly by
£112,555 of fixed assets and £445,620
of investments.
Unfortunately, the Stock Exchange
does not give its list of investments, from
which the public investors might glean
some tips on what the “insiders” think
are good buying.
Most of the Exchange’s funds are in-
vested in gilt-edged stuff, such as
£120,470 in Commonwealth loans and
£375,148 in an omnibus item of “com-
pany debentures, shares and convertible
notes.”
Probably it would give investors a
smug sense of satisfaction if they dis-
covered the Stock Exchange also inves-
ted in some “baddies” occasionally.
But, on the surface, their investments
look solid, providing £4595 in Common-
wealth loan interested £10,461 in in-
terest and dividends.
This investment income of £15,056
represents an annual return of only 3
p.c. on listed investments totalling
£495,618 .... well below the amount
of £22,395 spent during the year on
adult education, advertising and public
relations.
However, many securities were pur-
chased during the year and interest did
not accrue for the full 12 months.
In fact the income return on deben-
tures and other securities, excluding
Commonwealth loans, was only 2.8 p.c.
Members’ fees and levies (fines) pro-
vided the bulk of the income (£173,705).
Surprisingly, the listing fees paid by
companies totalled only £19,401.
The face value of ordinary shares
listed on Sydney ’Change rose from
£ 1,275 m. to £ 1,372 m., of which BHP
represented about 8 p.c.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
MONKEY BUSINESS IN MOTORS
/\ne way or another the motor industry
is never without its critics. There
can be no shadow of doubt that
the industry’s growth virtually from
scratch since the war to be the peer
among our manufacturing industries is as
responsible as any other single influence
for the overall advance of the whole
economy and the creation of jobs that has
gone with it. But the latest signals from
GMH and BMC that the industry’s expan-
sion hasn’t finished yet by a long chalk
has raised the cry that it is overdoing it.
(GMH is to double its current ex-
pansion programme to a total of £33i
million to be spent within three years,
making its total expenditure on expan-
sion more than £9O million since 1948;
BMC will lift its investment at the Vic-
toria Park plant in Sydney by a further
£1 million to more than £23 million.)
Last year the industry was hotly criti-
cised because its strongly rising imports
of components were costing too much.
Critics rather neglected the fact that the
industry’s recovery leading to the higher
imports of components was the biggest
single element in the general economic
pick-up from the recession. The Bulle-
tin joined in the warning that the indus-
try should feel for the brakes, though we
pointed out that this didn’t predicate the
early emergence of a threat to the balance
of payments like that which provoked the
general economic restraints in 1960.
This line of criticism lost some of its
sting when new registrations of motor
vehicles ebbed somewhat towards the end
of the year (though January, 1963’5,
were an all-time record for that month).
But if it is not one thing it is another,
this time the bogey of taking too much
of the gross national product. The re-
markable thing is that although they have
good reason to be sour at being so hard
put on by the 1960 measures, the motor
manufacturers have continued to press
on with the role of meeting present and
future demand for motor vehicles as
they see it.
Their faith in the long-term upward
trend of demand has been firm all
through, as witness their maintenance of
a steady annual rate of fixed capital ex-
penditure at the 1960-61 levels last year,
and the subsequent increases since June,
1962.
In 1960-61 the vehicles industry was
spending an average of about £4.5 million
a quarter on fixed capital account, £4.3
million a quarter in 1961-62 and, in the
two quarters up to December last, £7.1
million a quarter.
There is no need to labor the point
that this expenditure has come in more
than useful in the vital task of sustaining
overall fixed capital investment. On the
other hand, strong criticism has been
levied that the industry is taking too big
a share of the economic resources avail-
able, that we are spending half as much
again as the United States on motor
vehicles, and that other more socially
desirable sectors of the economy, such as
housing, have suffered as a result.
Aside from the point that over a
large area of the available resources the
demands of the housing and motor indus-
tries are different, and the further one
that it cannot be said that resources for
either have been fully used in the last
two years or more, it would be fatal
for the process of developing the private
sector of this free economy if Govern-
ment economic policies failed to take due
cognizance of the freest expression of
demand, of consumers’ choice.
nPHTS is not to say that the Govern-
ment should vacate the sales tax field
for the purpose of directing demand when
there is clear evidence of strain or im-
pending strain on the balance of pay-
ments, or when one industry or another
is putting too much pressure on available
resources (or is threatening to do so)
though the quarters advocating less free-
dom for the motor industry have usually
been loudest against the sort of stop and
go policies entailed by such usages of
sales tax.
Indeed, the motor industry the world
over has learned to live, as it has to, with
fluctuations in sales tax just as it has
had to do in Britain, for instance, with
Government-directed variations in per-
missible hire purchase terms.
In regard to sales tax, the best service
the Government could do the motor in-
dustry would be to make the assurance
that it will give it fair warning, as long
in advance as possible, of situations which
might require a change in sales tax and,
while always trying to keep the tax as
low as it can consistent with revenue re-
quirements, to hold the tax at a steady
rate over long periods.
But while giving the motor industry
equally as consistent conditions for
marketing its products as allowed any
other industry, the Government has still
to keep very close scrutiny on the rate
of imports required to sustain the motor
industry. This is the most critical point
at which the motor industry touches the
general viability of the economy and, of
course, the same applies to other in-
dustries drawing heavily on imports and
raw materials.
Fortunately views that the balance of
payments would be strained by a deluge
of imports in recent months have been
confounded, so for the time being at
any rate the motor industry can have an
easy conscience about its high level of
imports of components.
In the half year to December last
the latter cost £44.5 million, or very
nearly three times as much as in the
same six months of 1961-62, but they
appeared to be dropping towards the end
of the year with a fall from £7.5 million
in November to £5.7 million in December.
(January details not yet available.) This
being said, there seems little doubt that
had there been a strong follow through
to last year’s economic recovery the motor
industry would have been called to ac-
count by the Government for its high
overseas bill for components and, con-
ceivably, import quotas would have
resulted.
In fact, from all one hears it must
seriously be doubted whether the big
motor manufacturers are indeed break-
ing their backs to replace imported com-
ponents with local products. It is com-
mon knowledge that for the most part
imports from oversea parents looking
avidly for export markets for their com-
ponents are a much cheaper proposition,
and it is understandable that the subsi-
diaries of the firms in countries such as
this one should contrive to oblige as
keenly as they can.
Oo while the strain of such imports on
the balance of payments is not acute
at the moment, it remains a constant
threat and could become serious in con-
ditions of fuller employment. Moreover,
with imports of components running at
around £9O million a year and unemploy-
ment still a problem, no stone should be
left unturned to widen the area of com-
ponents and accessories production in this
country. This is a matter the companies
should attend to in the interest of theii
own goodwill here, even if to the sacrifice
of their profit remittances to parents.
Needless to say, the companies are
fully aware of the position and both
BMC and GMH in their recent announce-
ments are at pains to stress that their
expansion programmes are partly design-
ed to reduce the percentage of imported
components in their vehicles, as well as
increasing demand from Australian sup-
pliers and also to give employment.
However, with imports of components at
£9O million a year, figures as high as 97
per cent or more as given for the Aus-
tralian-made content of their cars are a
little hard to stomach.


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New
South Wales on the Bth March, 1950.
1°
2
PER
ANNUM
FOUR
YEARS
REGISTERED REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES
I
c*ob
Funds may be with-
drawn in a personal
emergency as set
out in the pros-
pectus.
Applications for
these notes must be
made on the form
attached to the
prospectus, which is
now available from:
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: 1st Floor. Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: 1st Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
PERTH: 7th Floor, 81 St. Georges Terrace.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Baylis Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any of the following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange).
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange).
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melb.).
Trustees for the Noteholders are the Bankers &
Traders Insurance Company Limited
Clip and Post Coupon
CCI58/AB
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the Prospectus with
application forms.
NAME
ADDRESS
PROTECTION PLUS FOR ALUMINIUM
I7or all the speculation in recent months
* on the future of imports of alumin-
ium metal, nobody really believed that
with surplus Australian smelting capacity
in sight the Government would allow
overseas smelters to compete in the local
market here.
So the Government has taken the only
logical course really open to it in putting
a virtual embargo on the importation of
aluminium metal as from the beginning
of this month. This means that for the
foreseeable future that is, until some
other group decides to build a smelter
here —Alcoa and Comalco will share the
market between them.
Alcoa has its initial 20,000 tons of
smelting capacity almost completed,
while in a week or two Comalco is bring-
ing in another batch of furnaces to take
its annual rate up to 45,000 tons a year
by end-March.
It also means that Alcan, which has
been supplying local fabricators, notably
Australuco, with smelted metal from its
Kitimat smelters in Canada, will now
have to turn exclusively to Comalco and
Alcoa for its metal supplies.
It is expected that Australuco, which
accounts for about two-thirds of the con-
sumption of ingot aluminium here, will
spread its favors about equally between
the two Australian smelters, despite the
fact that up to the present it has been
getting all its locally produced metal sup-
plies from Comalco.
This will hardly be to the liking of
Australuco, even though it has been ex-
pecting the axe on imports would fall
once enough smelting capacity was in
operation here.
True enough the percentage of its total
metal requirements it could import has
been reduced drastically during the last
12 months as more and more metal has
become available from Ccmalco’s Bell
Bay plant. This has meant that its aver-
age cost of metal has been rising all the
time, imports being landed at a much
cheaper cost than the guaranteed price of
£271 a ton it has to pay for Bell Bay
metal, a price which presumably is going
to be guaranteed as per the 1960 agree-
ment between Comalco and the Com-
monwealth Government until next r year.
It is inconceivable, however, that this
Price will be maintained indefinitely, un-
less of course the Government has agreed
to let Alcoa and Comalco recoup some of
tbeir capital costs from artificially high
Profits in the next year or two, which is
hardly likely.
Initially, neither company will be pro-
ducing metal at the lowest cost one would
ex pect them to in due course. None the
less it is still likely that operations will
a fford a good margin between the guar-
anteed price and costs early in the piece,
as indeed is the case with Comalco’s cur-
rent production.
Sooner or later the industry will have
to face up to a Tariff Board enquiry to
determine the amount of protection need-
ed by the smelters and one would expect
that, as in the case of the oil refining
industry in the 19505, they will be given
a generous measure to start with and
then have to cut to the bone in stages
until protection is abolished.
Equally, they will be kept on their
toes by the possibility of a third smelter
arising, a possibility that would be the
more attractive if its sponsors could be
assured on certain points such as how
long the ban on imports of metal will be
continued (the Government has not said),
how long the guaranteed price will be
retained, and what view the promised
Tariff Board enquiry will take of the
required level of protection.


THE MAN WHO RUNS NEDDY
Appointing Sir Robert Shone, direc-
tor-general of the National Econ-
omic Development Council
(Neddy), which has just given voice to
its first detailed blueprint for Britain’s
economic expansion, was one of the best
things Selwyn Lloyd ever did. As it
happens, the two men have other things
in common besides their Cheshire boy-
hood.
Both are convivial, jolly enough at a
party, yet seem to stand somehow apart.
Neither looks to have much backbone,
but they have the same obstinate deter-
mination and devotion to the daily grind.
Both, to look at, are fairly nondescript,
though Shone wears a moustache. Shone
is also very independent in his thinking
and genuinely dedicated to the pursuit
of economic growth; where Lloyd is
neither.
As it is the NEDC’s function to
plan Britain’s economic growth, he was
the obvious man for the job. His whole
experience had lain in the only private
industry that works to a single co-ordinat-
ed plan: steel. His family had been steel
merchants in Liverpool since the middle
of the nineteenth century. Shone himself
began in the firm as an engineer, escaped
and a few years later found himself work-
ing in London for the Iron and Steel
Federation transformed into an econ-
omist.
Bridging the two worlds
Tn this respect he is a new sort of man.
Industrial economists are not un-
common in Russia and America: men
who think of economics not as a general
science but as a body of techniques you
can apply if you know enough about a
particular industry.
But in England economics in the pure
classical sense dies very hard. Shone is
one of the few men to bridge the two
worlds effectively.
Looking back on his career it seems
almost as if it had been designed to lead
him to the NEDC. He was one of
eight children, three brothers and five
sisters, brought up in a comfortable,
solid, detached house in Wallasey with a
large garden. Theirs was a friendly,
casual relationship: all the children went
through university, most of them at
Liverpool. The brothers, being all better at
using figures than words, became
engineers. One now works for the BBC
and the other is advising the Indian
Government on its productivity problems.
Robert, the eldest, was a slow starter
as a boy and was sent to a private prep
school and on to Sedbergh, the public
school on the bleak Yorkshire hills. He
was light and thin, and he found life
SIR ROBERT SHONE
New sort of man
tough. But in the end he came to like it,
playing Rugger and running in the half-
mile. Soon after his seventeenth birth-
day he went on to Liverpool University.
This was where he really flowered,
filling out, enjoying himself immensely,
not doing too much work, but talking,
debating, playing chess and bridge all
through the night. He took a First in
engineering after three years and then
stayed on two years to do research
which gave him more opportunity for
Rugger.
Travels as junior ship’s engineer
lle was destined for the family busi-
A ness, export merchants in steel sup-
plying the shipyards; but in a sense he
was putting off the evil day. Already he
was too much worried about the gather-
ing unemployment in Britain to relish
the thought of giving his mind to solving
small intricate problems on Merseyside.
He joined the firm out of loyalty and,
having nothing else in mind, hawked
the steel round the yards.
But there were few ships building
then, and anyway the field for small
merchants of this kind in the large-unit,
standardised steel industry was already
shrinking. So he took two opportunities
of going with the Blue Funnel Line as a
junior ship’s engineer, once to China and
Japan and once across the Atlantic. He
also worked for a while for the ex-
perience with the big steel firm,
Stewarts and Lloyds. At the same time
he was studying economics at night
school; for at the back of his mind the
desire to do something else smouldered
on.
In 1932 his lucky break came, when
he won a Commonwealth Fellowship to
Chicago. He was able to study there
the economic problems of large-scale in-
dustry at a particularly fascinating time
after the slump and before the New
Deal. On his return he cut loose from the
family firm, went down to London, took
an attic room in Bloomsbury and looked
about for a job.
Eventually he landed one as an econo-
mist with the Iron and Steel Federation,
the industry’s own body. After a year he
left to lecture at the London School of
Economics, but found he preferred to
see action flowing from thought rather
than simply teaching, and so the Federa-
tion took him back again.
Since then he has stuck with steel.
Before and after the war he was with the
Federation, first in charge of its econo-
mic department and latterly as its di-
rector: the war he spent controlling the
price and allocation of steel; and in 1953
he joined the Government’s Iron and
Steel Board, the Federation’s natural
enemy. It is a case really of the poacher
turning gamekeeper, for the two bodies
were often at war over when and how
fast the industry should expand. Being
a gamekeeper seemed to suit Shone
better.
Alternatives to nationalisation
ITe is preternaturally discreet, but it is
not difficult to guess that his views are
distinctly liberal. Merseyside must have
spelt out for him the social miseries of
laissez-faire. The steel industry, with its
few large firms, certainly taught him that
competition cannot work without some
sort of regulation. He found himself
more and more puffing the case for pub-
lic control without ownership.
During the Labor Government he was
much concerned with finding a possible
compromise substitute for nationalisation:
indeed, during the long negotiations with
Ministers, he thought at one time that
the formula finally hit on control with
power of take-over for defence or default
might do the trick. Certainly, Herbert
Morrison seemed to take to it.
For all these reasons and with all this
experience, Shone was becoming the nat-
ural technocrat, always most interested
in general economic policy and the prob-
lems of industry in general: a natural
choice to lead the NEDC in its pursuit of
expansion and its search for the right
ways to remove the obstacles to growth.
At 56 and a bachelor he remains an


active, amenable man. He has recently
bought a three-storey pre-war house de-
signed by Sir Edward Maufe in the love-
liest part of Hampstead, had it gutted
j n side and redesigned on the open plan
by a pupil of Maxwell Fry. It shows his
love of good design and materials and
bis eye for a good picture (he spends the
odd lunch-hour scouring the Bond Street
galleries for the works of not-yet-estab-
lished modern painters).
faking things as they come
TJe used to ski every year religiously,
** but now he likes to spend his holi-
days on sea voyages, playing deck-tennis
by day and dancing by night. The only
proviso he makes is that there shall not
be too many landfalls.
Is he tough enough for his new role?
That is the chief doubt. He is very
sensibly taking things as they come,
not worrying too much about the
NEDC’s curious constitutional position
-neither independent of nor dependent
on the Government, a sort of permanent
Royal Commission on growth —or its
relations with the Treasury or the Chan-
cellor. But sooner rather than later these
issues will come up.
So long as he is doing his job, by
quietly chivvying everyone in sight to
expand, he will be admirable. But when
the moment comes to speak out, as
M. Monnet can and does in France,
when Governments of whatever color
deflate or go off the rails,, what then?
Judgment has to be suspended. All that
can be said is that it is hard to think
of anyone filling the bill better
CIVIL ENGINEER DOWN
After announcement of lower profit
1 for the December six months, Sydney
quotes for the ss. shares of McDonald
Industries Ltd were 10s. 3d. buyer,
10s. 9d. seller, compared with a last sale
of 11s. 6d.
A hopeful seller «n Melbourne was
bolding out for 125., with no response.
Profit margins were reported to he
educed, although the volufrie of work
completed was greatei than ir the previ-
ews corresponding period.
Smail consolation is the statement that
"'ork in hand now is greater than at this
llnie last year. Is it great enough to stop
the rot?
Maintenance of the 10 p.c. annual
dividend rate —which last year was well
covered by earnings of 22 p.c.—means
there’s no occasion to toss these shares
out 'f the original investment aim was of
a long-term nature.
GLADSTONES' UNENVIABLE GHOST
By “CROESUS”
IJntil Mr K. D. J, Coventry, manager
of T. & G. nominees, which has a
receiver in Rockmans, threw his proxies
from Rockmans’ creditors into the ring,
everything seemed to be going according
to plan at the succession of Factors’
meetings in South Melbourne Town Hall
last week. These were to seek approval
of creditors and debenture, note and
shareholders for the amended scheme of
arrangement which gives Board members
of Factors two representatives on a five-
man committee of management and pro-
vides for a moratorium until the end of
July.
Of course, at all four meetings there
were many angry old men and a few
irate women to enliven proceedings on
the accepted pattern of similar occasions
in the Bamboo Room, but the atmosphere
was not really cosy enough for personal
demonstrations by the afflicted; and any-
way it is pretty difficult to make an
emotional appeal when stentorian Fac-
tors’ chairman Mr. V. T. Gladstones is
around.
So it was left to Mr Coventry to steal
the show and effectively to throw the
ball back to the Supreme Court, render-
ing the whole three days of deliberations
at South Melbourne abortive for the time
being.
It was ironical that Mr Gladstones,
whose powers of articulation and per-
suasion on company law matters are as
strong as the respect he has commanded
for objectivity since he tackled Factors,
had at earlier meetings got debenture
and note holders to approve the proposed
committee of management with its two
Board directors, and should have his
path blocked by unsecured creditors,
especially those of Rockmans, in which
Factors has given up its investment for
lost, that is 100 p.c. of the equity.
It seems that Rockmans has become
Mr Gladstones’ unenviable ghost, for
however hard he tries to forget it (most
of Rockmans’ losses were incurred before
he took over from Mr Oswald Burt as
chairman of the Factors group) it will
keep popping up, spoiling his best de-
vised plans for Factors.
Now, presumably, he is thinking that
should the scheme of arrangement in
some other amended form get every-
body’s approval, the ghost will have a
permanent seat on the Board.
For the rest it will comprise mainly
accountants, which to Mr Gladstones
himself, a noted accountant, is seemingly
not a very reassuring prospect for the
success of the scheme, since none will
have experience of the somewhat com-
plicated affairs of Factors.
Looking back on the events of the last
few months, it is unfortunate that Mr
Coventry didn’t earlier raise his objection
to the presence of two Board members
on the committee of management. After
all, others did and were successful in
having various amendments put to the
original scheme, which actually gave the
Board a majority of 3 to 2 in the
personnel of the committee.
It could be that his motives, not re-
vealed thus far, may be to wreck the
whole scheme so as to pave the way for
liquidation. But it must be remembered
that the unsecured creditors of Rock-
mans still have a chance of recovering
something from the Rockmans receiver-
ship. (Rockmans’ creditors and debenture
holders rank ahead of Factors’ debenture
from the sale of Rockmans’ assets to
Woolworths.)
It seems that Mr Coventry wants to
block every conceivable possibility that
any of the proceeds from these sales
leak into Factors, though it might be
thought that two directors of the stand-
ing of Mr Gladstones, say, plus a
nominee of the Bank of New Zealand,
on the committee of management would
have been a sufficient guarantee against
that happening.
Though Mr Gladstones has stated
that the only certain beneficiary of a
liquidation of Factors would be the Bank
of New Zealand, which has a prior
charge over the whole of Factors’ assets,
it is worth pondering what some of the
group’s high profit earning assets, such
as the two Holeproof companies, would
fetch, even if others such as the advances
to Stanhill, are not at this stage probably
worth talking about.
Of course, these advances were talked
about and quite hotly at last week’s
meetings. Mr Gladstones refused to be
drawn about the wisdom of making
them. It was not done during his
acquaintance with Factors, and in any
case “the meeting was not an inquest.”
He said if Factors put Stanhill into
liquidation on account of its default on
the loans, Stanhill creditors would rank
ahead, and Factors would probably get
nothing.
Reading between the lines of his
answer to a question as to what the
equity of Factors was worth, it seems
that Mr Gladstones still holds out some
hope of a future return —no one, he
stated, could say what the £868,243
equity of the company would be worth
if the company were wound up, but he
believed it would be substantially lower
in the case of a liquidation.


DANGERS OF PLANTATION-BASED ECONOMY
IN PAPUA - NEW GUINEA
By W. M. C. KENNEDY
/Aur new Asiatic neighbour, the Foote
” Report and the consciousness of
world attention on Papua and New
Guinea call for an appraisal of Aus-
tralian investment in the Territories.
The future of the Territory of Papua
and New Guinea is a foregone con-
clusion. It is inevitable that some form
of self government will be granted in the
not very distant future. This will be
determined by international pressure and
the Cold War, regardless of Australian
wishes or those of the indigenous in-
habitants of Papua and New Guinea.
In the few years remaining in which
Australia will have any measure of
control, no effort will be spared to
ensure that the ultimate break will be
amicable. ' Australian investment in the
Territories, by no means insignificant,
may nevertheless be in peril due to the
nature of the basic economic structure.
Discounting the search for oil and other
minerals, shipping and retailing, the
economy of Papua and New Guinea is
based on agricultural pursuits. Planta-
tions are primarily run on a one-crop
economy and are subject to the whims
and fluctuations of international buying
markets. But of far greater consequence
is the fact that they require a ready
source of cheap native labour.
Tn the Territory of Papua and New
-*• Guinea four main crops are cultivated
in order of importance, copra, cocoa,
rubber and coffee. To establish, each
requires a large financial outlay with a
long period of waiting for a return.
None lends itself to any form of me-
chanisation and all depend on large
numbers of manual labourers.
Copra is made from the dried kernel
of the coconut palm. Coconuts, which
fall from the palms all the year round,
have to be picked up manually and
stacked in areas accessible to transport.
Then they must be husked, split open and
placed in driers or in the sun.
When not occupied with these tasks,
the labourers are engaged in stacking and
burning fallen palm fronds and keeping
secondary growth in check. Only where
the terrain is level can this be done
mechanically. Various methods of pick-
ing up nuts with “cow catchers” in
front of tractors have been tried but
none has been very successful.
Coffee beans and cocoa pods must be
picked at definite stages of growth.
Mechanical harvesting is just not pos-
sible. The control of secondary growth
can generally be carried out only by
hand. Low branches and the irregular
terrain favouring these crops often rule
out all other methods. Labourers are
also needed for pruning and replanting
of diseased trees.
Rotary hot air driers, capable of re-
placing men in the factories, are not in
widespread use. Sun-drying is the method
more generally adopted.
Rubber tappers are indispensable.
They, too, are required to control
secondary growth. Many are also
engaged in gathering fuel for smoke
houses.
Most plantation tasks are monotonous
and require a fair amount of physical
effort. Unlike the sugar industry, it is
doubtful if white men would ever con-
sider replacing natives, regardless of the
financial rewards offered.
TAespite an increasing birthrate and
greater life expectancy for Melan-
esians, the sources of native labour are
not limitless. Various influences are now
at work to actively discourage natives
from offering themselves as wage labour-
ers. The system of Native Local Govern-
ment Councils now provides an incentive,
previously lacking, for natives to remain
at home and develop their own economic
potential.
In each Local Government Council
area taxes are levied and collected by the
natives themselves and expended on their
own community services. To raise the
necessary tax money various cash crop
enterprises are encouraged by the Ad-
ministration.
Assistance in the form of guidance
and expert technical instruction is pro-
vided to ensure the success of such ven-
tures.
Quality control, sizes of areas of
cultivation and safeguards against disease
are often governed by legislation. And
the end products are commanding a
constantly increasing price on the market
in competition with plantation produce
from estates managed by white men.
Advances in the field of education
have resulted in the emergence of a
greatly enlarged clerical and technical
class of workers. Many positions previ-
ously held by whites are now being filled
by natives from this class. A growing
number of natives with aspirations to fill
these “status” positions are now aware
of the advantages of seeking higher
education.
But perhaps the most important factor
is that few, if any, Melanesians need to
work for wages to exist. All are land-
owners in their own right and can scratch
some form of subsistence from their own
holdings. The Territory of Papua and
New Gunea is no teeming Asia where
unemployment spells starvation.
Melanesia is sparsely populated and
capable of supporting far greater numbers
and at a higher living standard than at
present. It is likely that as the ideas of
self-government become more widely
understood industrial relationships will
undergo strains. The emergence of
trade unionism among native labourers
will provide a fertile breeding ground for
outside Leftist pressures.
Taking into account all these factors,
planters will in future find themselves
'more hardly pressed to recruit sufficient
labourers for the continued economic
running of their estates.
Other types of cash crop enterprise
lending themselves to mechanisation will
probably prosper. In the Territories’
main centres there is a constantly grow-
ing demand for fruit, vegetables, dairy
products, meats and eggs.
rpHE larger plantations will probably
be the worst hit. The big plantations
drawing their labour force from long
distances would perhaps be well advised
to consider possible alternatives for the
future, such as:
• Conversion to other forms of agri-
culture less dependent upon manual
workers.
• Animal husbandry for meat produc-
tion.
• Profit-sharing schemes.
• Share cropping.
• Outright sale to co-operatives or local
government groups.
The plantation system of agriculture
is an anachronism; a relic of the days of
colonialism.
The Department of Territories itself
is fairly well aware of the situation. In
a recent departmental publication, “The
Changing Harvest in Papua and New
Guinea”, the Minister (Mr Paul Has-
luck) observes that one of the most im-
mediate requirements is the establish-
ment of suitable secondary industries.
Nevertheless, a great shortage of both
skilled labour and suitable raw materials
means that the Territory’s economy must
depend, for quite awhile, on agricultura
exports.
The Federal Government attempts to
encourage secondary industry by tari
concessions on imported plant and raw
materials, by protecting the finished pr°'
duct, and by low tax rates. Success has
not yet been striking.


INVESTMENT COUNSELLORS "ON THE SPOT"
One of the growing race of investment
counsellors was put up by a Mel-
bourne television programme to enlighten
the public on some of the mysteries of
his art. What he, Mr James Cowan, found
was a panel of sceptics whose disbelief in
the road to wealth via share investment
was pretty nearly absolute compared with
their faith in money in the bank. One
wondered what the reaction would have
been if he’d appeared this time three
years ago.
The question was raised as to what
investment counsellors have to offer
which is better than anything the public
can’t get for nothing from stockbrokers,
whose brokerage fees are generally
thought of as being high enough to be
inclusive of advice. The counsellor
could have been naughty and said that
advice from brokers is not always entirely
disinterested, but he simply pointed out
that advice from some brokers wasn’t
worth much.
In any case, he maintained that an
investment counsellor goes into the past,
present and future of companies very
thoroughly, whatever a broker may do.
(And we know the answer to that one so
far as the small investor is concerned.)
Another point made was that invest-
ment counsellors are concerned mainly
with providing balanced investment port-
folios and do not cater for the man with
a hundred or so to put into a single
investment. They want clients with a
thousand or more, so as to give a spread
of investments in case one of them turns
sour.
In our experience brokers will take an
order for a plunge on anything, no
questions asked or advice given, and, of
course, punters usually prefer it that
way.
Is there, then, a place in the invest-
ment hierarchy for independent invest-
ment counsellors? Probably there is, and
so long as they can make money at it
they are here to stay. At any rate, it is
Mlikely that they will have to give
evidence of their moral or social
behaviour before they can start up in
business.
A Melbourne stockbroker currently
seeking what he chooses to call an invest-
ment adviser is asking applicants to fill
• ln three big pages of questions about
•their rectitude, such as whether they’ve
been divorced or not. This sort of
question is out, even at Buckingham
Palace, these days.
May count their blessings
several months of buoyant motor
registrations, including an all-time
tec °rd for January (not the best of
months in the motor sales world, how-
ever) behind them, the automotive in-
dustries won’t mind some respite in the
present seasonal lull, for all the signs
point to another wave of high sales in
a few months’ time.
In any case, it gives them a chance to
count their blessings, which, on all the
evidence from the industry, are bounti-
ful indeed. They could be more so if
current suggestions that sales be cut are
followed up, which seems pretty unlikely,
however, as there is a limit to which the
whole economy can stand to be buoyed
by this single industry.
This new found prosperity hasn’t
washed off as much as one would have
thought on the shares of some of the
main suppliers of motor components
and accessories. With highly probable
increases in dividends in prospect for
some of the companies at least, current
dividend yields are not necessarily a
guide to the extent to which the bonanza
has been discounted in the market, in the
ca e of National Consolidated, for in-
stance, whose latest interim is only in
line with its previous 20 p.c. annual
rate.
A smaller company with its interim
report still to come is the Victorian-
based GUD Holdings (maker among
other things of gaskets, fuel pumps and
oil filters) which posted a record profit
last year. It covered the maintained 25
p.c. dividend with an earnings rate of
41 p.c., continuing fairly consistent pro-
gress over a four-year period in which
shareholders have gleaned considerable
capital and dividend benefits.
The company has now a big share of
the Australian market in some products,
concentrating on replacement demand
rather than original equipment. With the
possibility of a lift from the 25 p.c.
rate this year, the shares are by no means
over-priced at around 335. to give a yield
of 3.8 p.c.
Reed Paper report
TSThile making no predictions for the
” rest of the year, directors of Reed
Paper Products (Holdings) Ltd gave out
that sales, profit and earning rate on
capital were all higher in the December
six months than for the same period of
1961.
A 6d. dividend was paid on the ss.
shares in December to take advantage
of tax-free funds. A carefully worded
statement said then that this 10 p.c. in-
terim was warranted by the information
then available, but it should not on this
occasion be taken to indicate the final
dividend payment.
Last year’s earning rate of 22.3 p.c. on
capital just covered the steady 20 p.c.
dividend.
The shares have drifted from the open-
ing sale price this year of 225. 6d. ex
the dividend, but on an income and earn-
ings yield basis are in line with paper
merchant Edwards Dunlop and Co. Ltd.
the world of business
"Let me get this straight—you embezzled enough money to buy a
controlling interest in the company, which you then used as collateral
to repay the embezzlement. Now you'e demanding my resignation
for gross negligence in not detecting your fraud!"


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
□
o
o
o
OTHER RATES AND TERMS AVAILABLE
ISWBMIjitiiMIIMIM
0
o
o
a
n
o
!
OTHER RATES AND TERMS AVAILABLE
See Prospectus for full details of rates and terms available. Your
copy available from all Members of Stock Exchanges, over 750
branches of the A.N.Z. Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Registered 19th December, 1929)
Branches at
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
HOBART CANBERRA
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney, Adelaide and Brisbane.
8245 N
Courtauld’s dividend
The “One to Buy” recommendation
of March 9, Courtaulds (Australia)
Ltd, came good with restoration of an
interim dividend.
Payment will be 3i p.c., compared with
last year’s first and final payment of 3
p.c.
From The Bulletin’s recommended
price of 14s. 9d., the shares subsequently
leaped to 17s. 4d. When the market
digests the directors’ statement that there
is a sustained demand for the company’s
products, while orders in hand are en-
couraging, the shares could make a
further advance. But past experience
has discouraged the market from being
too optimistic.
Power tools float
Tt is reassuring for stags and investors
alike to see lan Potter and Co. behind
the float of Sher Tools Australia Ltd. \
prospectus for a public issue of 533,333
ss. shares at Is. 3d. premium was filed
last week in Melbourne and will be
released publicly about March 24.
However, even this powerful stable
cannot be expected to return to the scale
of activity in the flotation field it enjoyed
a few years ago certainly while the
market climate is so dull.
Maybe it is the high credentials of
the Potter stable which accounts for the
Is. 3d. premium on the issue. Judging
by the initial performances of some of
the recent Stock Exchange entrants
issued at par, such as General Foods,
Kays, Bowra Holdings and Chamberlain,
it will not frighten subscribers away nor
deter buyers when Sher joins the lists.
According to the prospectus sales have
risen 17 p.c. in the seven months to the
end of January, following a year when
profit after tax came to £61,095. This
equals an earnings rate of 15.27 p.c. on
the £400,000 ordinary capital, as against
15.34 p.c. the previous year. After the
issue the net assets backing will be only
3s. lOd. a share. Dividends of not less
than 10 p.c. are forecast.
A souped-up model
Qome commentators are not doing
justice to other hire purchase com-
panies in saying that Industrial Accep-
tance Corporation Ltd is setting the lead
in trust deeds and guarantees to deben-
ture and unsecured note holders.
lAC last week announced that the two
trustees for debentures and unsecured
notes accepted an offer by the company
and its finance and wholesale sub-
sidiaries to join with lAC Holdings io
the unconditional guarantee.
At least two other HP companies


COMPANY LIMITED
H&l
FINANCIER
Registered First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
» m
w
l 2
PER ANNUM FOR 6 & 10 YEARS
ISSUE OF
£1,000,000
Trustee for Deben-
ture Stock Holders:
Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
6% .... 2 YEARS
6*% .. 3 YEARS
7% .... 4 YEARS
7*% .. 5 YEARS
APPLICATION AND PROSPECTUS
Applications will proceed only on one of
the forms of application referred to in
and attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus. Prospectus may be obtained
from:
• All Branches of the Bank of New
South Wales in New South Wales,
Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT
CO. LTD.
Head Office:
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
and Branches
Telephone BW 4521
Underwriting Brokers
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O'Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne
340 Queen Street, Brisbane
Brokers for Victoria:
CLARKE & CO.
450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne)
Brokers for Queensland:
CHARLES ELLIOTT & SON
356 Queen Street, Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
Brokers in Australian Capital Territory:
T. J. THOMPSON & SONS
C.B.C. Chambers, Petrie Street, City,
Canberra
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
IjiGC and Motor Credits for instance
have had the same sort of arrangement
for years. However, lAC can take the
I credit for first introducing trust deeds
backing for its borrowings back in 1950.
Since then most other HP companies
followed suit and made refinements to
the lAC model some even in the
manner of lAC’s latest so-called pace-
setter.
Atlas Products listing
The appointment of Melbourne broker
Mr W. J. Baker, of Wm. Ham and
Co., to the board of building materials
producer Atlas Products (Vic.) Pty Ltd,
following the acquisition of a one-third
interest in the company by UK-owned
Marley Reliance Industries Pty Ltd,
may well presage listing of the company
within a year or so.
It will be remembered that in 1961 the
British group Marley Tile (Holdings)
acquired all minority shareholdings in
Marley Reliance Industries here. The
latter’s shares were de-listed.
Independence maintained
T engthy discussions between Parke
Davis and Co. of the US and
Amalgamated Chemicals Ltd have been
terminated because of the inadequate
return available to a US purchaser after
the combined impact of Arherican and
Australian taxes.
Recent buyers may be disappointed,
but older shareholders should be grate-
ful for a continuing interest in a vigor-
ous organisation.
Any major lapse from the closing price
of 18s. for the new shares before the an-
nouncement that the takeover was off,
could be viewed as a real opportunity for
growth-minded investors.
Anniversary gifts
Dreston Motors, Melbourne’s biggest
Holden distributor, could hardly
have picked a better year for its fiftieth
anniversary, though it only just managed
to beat the previous profit record
(£312,224 in 1960) by £lOOO or so.
The posted result of £313,000 was 80
p.c. higher than the year between,
which just goes to show how fickle
profits of motor distributors can be.
Remembering this, the company decided
to stick to its \l\ p.c. rate, as it did for
1961 when its earnings rate of 31 p.c.
Was its lowest since listing in 1955.
However, to celebrate its anniversary
a bonus of 5 p.c. is to be added to the
dividend this year. To cap things off,
a one-for-two share bonus will be made
from assets revaluation reserve arising
from a revaluation of shares in sub-
sidiaries.
Brickmaker tumbles
VTewbold’s plunge to 16s. 9d. marked
a new low for the stock over a
three-year period.
The yield then became 3.7 p.c., still
within the category where investors re-
quire supplementary capital benefits.
A reassessment of the company has
been necessary, but no further hasty
dumping seems justified by the interim
report issued in February.
Rescue Life Savers
7|The scrap for Smalls’ Chocolates Ltd
last June, in which Life Savers (Aus-
tralasia) Ltd was ultimately successful,
triggered off a re-appraisal of the shares
of its contestant James Stedman Ltd.
A more enlightened policy by Sted-
man directors —to split the shares to
popular ss. units, and distribute an extra
2i p.c.—has been greeted with approval,
so the shares are now selling at around
245. compared with 80s. for the £1
shares at the time of their bid.
Life Savers, which has long been a
market favorite because of frequent
shareholder benefits, is on the slightly
more favorable yield of 2.7 p.c., while
the current price is 275. 6d.
After the one-for-ten bonus of Decem-
ber 31, 1962, Life Savers opened at
325. 6d. It appears that the factors
influencing the contrary price movements
of Life Savers and Stedmans are tech-
nical, and if pushed too far, illogical.
Stedmans has already reported higher
sales and satisfactory profits for the
December half-year.
Life Savers should check in, late in
April, with a report to the end of
January of equal trading success, as their
confectionery lines are very similar.
The Smalls’ takeover is expected to
reinforce earnings, so if Lifesavers’
shares ebb any lower they should be
quickly rescued by observant investors.


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
Talcott Factors’ Payout
There’s talk around town that Talcott
Factors Ltd (one-fifth owned by the
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney) may
be more generous to shareholders in its
interim pay-out due in April.
The 10 p.c. annual rate could be hoist-
ed even to 15 p.c., as trading conditions
have been so favorable.
Since June 30, issued capital has
grown from £413,000 to £774,375, but
it doesn’t all rank for the interim
dividend.
Lanray’s capital move
T anray Industries Ltd, which runs a
large retail hardware business under
the name of Penprase, at Miranda, a
Sydney suburb, has not excited much
interest with its proposal to halve paid
capital.
The 2s. shares, selling around 4s. Bd.
mid-February, eased slightly on the
interim report that sales for the Decem-
ber six months were 19.5 p.c. better than
for the similar period of 1961, and even
8.8 p.c. better than the record period
in 1960, yet profits were lower.
Expenses, partly of a non-recurring
nature, which affected profit, were
assumed to be associated with the re-
organisation of management and pro-
cedures.
Since sale of the Adelaide brandy
distiller, Tolley, Scott and Tolley, funds
exceeding £750,000 were freed for re-
investment. Although many avenues
have been investigated, no satisfactory
employment has been found for the
funds.
Return of Is. a share will absorb
£163,377. Interim dividend of 6£ p.c.
announced earlier, will be followed by a
final of 7i p.c. on the reduced capital.
The dividend commitment this year will
thus be £32,675, as against last year’s
£40,844.
The shares are still cum lid. interim
dividend, and on return of Is. the net
cost to a purchaser today is about 3s. 3d.
at which they will return a sober 4.9
p.c. on an annual dividend basis of 15
p.c. Earnings should provide at least
100 p.c. margin over this dividend.
ONE TO BUY
MARRICKVILLE VIA THE ALLEY
A not unexpected takeover move for
Olympic Bowling Centres Ltd
has left open a cheap entry to a well-
regarded food firm, Marrickville Hold-
ings Ltd.
The ss. shares of Marrickville last
year ranged between 30s. 3d. and 235.,
yet slumped recently to 21s. 6d. when
criticised for its Olympic bid. It has
since struggled up to 225. 6d.
Terms of the bid were one Marrick-
ville ss. share for five Olympic ss. shares.
Allowing for the difference in brokerage
and dividend, any margin of greater than
9id. between the price of one Marrick-
ville and five Olympic makes Olympic
the cheaper way in, always assuming that
the bid will go through and the price of
Olympic does not rise above ss.
Olympic Bowling has an issued capital
of £1,200,000, of which Marrickville
originally subscribed £150,000. To buy
the balance involves issue of Marrickville
shares to the par value of £210,000.
Marrickville’s present issued capital is
£2,691,389 since the takeover of J. R.
Love and Co. Pty. Ltd., flourmillers and
general food merchant, in July last.
As Marrickville’s customary dividend
is 15 p.c. (varied only to 14£ p.c. after
the one-for-two bonus in 1959-60) with
a good margin of profits retained in the
business, envelopment of the bowling
company need not cause any anxiety to
old Marrickville shareholders on the
score of immediate income.
As the other Olympic sponsors, Bruns-
wick Corporation of USA, Hoyts Theatres
Ltd and the Griff family, are to be
bought out, it is a reasonable expectation
that Marrickville, in sole control, will
improve on Olympic's last profit of only
£5,869, particularly as new bowling
centres are now in operation.
It also is in a strong position to obtain
cheap finance for Olympic.
Marrickville’s reputation as a leader in
the food field has been built up on its
margarine and edible oils manufacture;
also production and distribution of the
ETA brand groceries and confectionery.
The first venture into bowling was by
the purchase early in 1960 of about
£150,000 of capital in Brunswick Bowling
Equipment, which sells the pin-setting
equipment to bowling centres.
A feather in Marrickville's cap was the
capture of distribution rights to the pro-
ducts of Procter and Gamble of the US.
To date, P. and G. has launched only
Camay toilet soap and Flash cleanser,
but it could at any time tackle its interna-
tional competitor, Unilever, with its Ame-
rican range of soaps, toothpastes and
detergents, and supercharge Marrickville’s
earnings in the process.
Meantime, Marrickville has been quiet-
ly picking up extra business through the
takeover of J. S. Corden and Co Pty of
Perth in 1959 (a former distributor for
Marrickville products), Glycerine Distil-
lery Co. Pty (NSW maker of glycerine
and fatty acids) in 1960, Krunchi Krisps
Pty of Adelaide and Jay-Cee Potato Chips
Pty of Melbourne in 1961, J. R. Love in
1962, as mentioned earlier, and F. Crago
and Sons Pty, a NSW flourmiller, in 1963.
Late in 1962 the company announced
plans to build a factory in Tasmania to
produce alginates from seaweed.
The last issue to shareholders was a
one-for-eight at 100 p.c. premium in June
1961. Prior to that, two private place-
ments totalling 700,000 ss. stock units
were made to tide the company over.
Although the major factory is in the
Sydney suburb of Marrickville, there
are plants in all States, including new
premises at Braybrook (Vic.). Purchase
of 21 acres at Lane Cove in 1960 will
provide for future NSW expansion.
The chairman, in his annual address of
November 1962, referred to the con-
tinuing need to keep abreast of the latest
developments in industry, and for larger
accommodation for the group’s steadily
growing activities.
Notes to the sum Of £500,000 are
repayable in 1966. At last balance date,
liquidity had improved on the position as
at June 1961, but if the bid for Olympic
succeeds, the next resort to shareholders
could be earlier than previously schedul-
ed by directors.
The earning rate of the last three years
has averaged around 21 p.c., and Mar-
rickville always has given the impression
from its tax provision that profit dis-
closures erred on the side of conservation.
Investors can depend on the manage-
ment to continue to guide the company’s
affairs with its usual astuteness. The
Olympic bid should prove wiser in the
long term than allowing the company
possibly to flounder on its own, so
jeopardising Marrickville's original in-
vestment.
Interim report, released on March 1,
spoke of “excellent progress”, in the
integration of new subsidiaries, a very
good, half-year for the New Zealand in-
terests, and maintenance of group sales
at a high level.
Investment in Marrickville at less
than 235. should not disappoint those
seeking a sound stock for capital apprecia-
tion. Buyers prepared to gamble on the
Olympic bid succeeding and no com-
petitive bids are likely will save them-
selves quite a few pence per share.


We Me pettier w«t tjeo/t Mm
V ■
w W fill
'j
•Woe
Vl*
&
&•:•• • * 7
:ir
cud -fkey lov& it/
We show youngsters how to make banking a
pleasant and profitable habit. It’s their first
commercial experience, and a happy one.
We give teen-agers straight facts—explain to
them how their deposited money is used by the
Commonwealth Bank.
We encourage young adults to use our cheque
accounts to their great advantage, but wisely.
As a result, our younger customers provide a
useful percentage of the funds we can lend to
other Australians who have decided to “Bank
Commonwealth.”
And that “useful percentage” is most helpful,
because we are now lending more than a million
pounds a week for one purpose alone—to help
our customers to build or acquire homes of their
own.
Appropriately enough, our lending for home-
building has its effect in creating greater
employment, new communities, better living
standards for young people to enjoy.
We know that, in time, some of our young cus-
tomers will seek our advice about their own
financial problems. And rightly so: mutual
confidence is an essential element of full service
banking.
Commonwealth
TRADING • SAVINGS • DEVELOPMENT
Banks
CB 24.103


BRAMBLES NOW LOOKS ATTRACTIVE
By “SECURITY”
Oo far, Brambles Industries Limited has
been a company with markedly
changing fortunes. This has been duly
reflected in its share price, which has
varied from a high 255. 6d. in 1961 to a
low 11s. 7d. in 1962.
A few years ago Brambles was highly
regarded in the stock market. For
whilst paid-up capital was increasing at
a rapid rate, the earning rate increased at
an even greater rate, such that in the
1959 financial year over 42 p.c. was
earned on year-end ordinary capital.
The pattern which was then being set
was rapid expansion in its traditional
transporting activities, financed out of
retained profits and depreciation allow-
ances, coupled with diversification into
engineering activities as a result of take-
overs effected on favorable terms as a
result of a healthy share premium.
Newcastle engineer Morison and
Bearby Ltd, acquired in 1958, was
Brambles’ first major diversification move.
Many other engineering interests were
subsequently obtained, the main one be-
ing Kelly and Lewis Ltd.
Unfortunately, however, the newly ac-
quired companies in the engineering field
did not contribute to the group earnings.
On the contrary, several subsidiaries
made losses, some over a lengthy period;
and finally Brambles decided to with-
draw from this field so that the funds
released could be reinvested in other,
more profitable activities within the com-
pany’s development programme.
As it turned out, the disposal of cer-
tain of the engineering interests, namely
Kelly and Lewis, United Development
Corporation Pty Ltd, Booth Engineering
Ltd and the valve division of Morison
and Bearby Ltd, resulted in substantial
capital profits and left Brambles in a
highly liquid position. It meant also that
Brambles’ interest in the engineering field
lay only in a few profitable subsidiaries.
The third phase
'C'ollowing the first two clearly dis-
cernible phases of rapid expansion
followed by diversification mainly into
unprofitable activities, Brambles is now
within the third phase of its history,
that of reorganisation and consolidation.
The first major step undertaken in the
reorganisation of the company’s activities
occurred in the 1960-61 financial year,
when the transport division was recon-
stituted into three separate functional
divisions in order to give greater scope
for more concentrated development of
these operations. The divisions now are:
1. Transport division, which embraces
both local, intrastate and interstate net-
works.
2. Industrial services division, which
provides specialised transport services for
major clients such as BHP, and there-
fore operates mainly in the industrial
centres of Newcastle, Port Kembla and
Whyalla.
3. Materials handling division, which
provides plant and equipment hire servic-
es to industry and to the waterfront.
With the cash proceeds from the sale
of various of its engineering interests
Brambles modernised the equipment in
the industrial services division and ex-
tended its activities in the materials
handling division through the acquisition
of two of the leading crane-hiring busi-
nesses in Adelaide.
The customs and shipping division,
represented by Barton and Company,
Steel and Humphrey, Cleland’s Bonded
and Free Stores, and more recently by
C. A. Piggott and Company, of Mel-
bourne, works in conjunction with the
transport division so as to provide cus-
tomers with a comprehensive service.
Other activities
Tn other fields of activity, Brambles
holds a 50 p.c. interest in the highly
profitable Breckett Pty Ltd, which holds
a contract expiring in 1966 for the re-
covery of steel scraps from the open
hearths at Newcastle and Port Kembla.
In addition, just recently Brambles ac-
quired companies engaged in the rock
excavation and civil contracting fields,
and its steel merchandising subsidiary M.
and B. Steel and Engineering Supplies
Pty Ltd received notification that it had
been made an approved Sydney merch-
ant distributor of steel section and sheets
manufactured by BHP and John Ly-
saght.
Thus, the company is almost wholly a
service organisation, dependent on a
high level of industrial activity at the
leading industrial centres of Newcastle,
Sydney, Port Kembla and Whyalla. It
was therefore not surprising that in the
year ended June 30, 1962, the earning
rate on year end ordinary capital fell
to 22.8 p.c. as a result of major adverse
factors, such as industrial disturbances
and lengthy stoppages which seriously
affected the company’s activities through
no fault of its own, and the Govern-
ment’s economic policy which caused a
downturn in industrial activity.
If the company’s latest profit figure is
any guide, it would seem to suggest that
recovery might take longer than ex-
pected, for, in the first six months of
the financial year ending June 30, 1963,
the consolidated net earnings of the
company based on unaudited figures
were £232,377 after making the usual
provisions. This figure was only £6000
higher than for the corresponding period
of the previous financial year.
Directors’ confidence
ITowever, with the gradual pickup in
industrial activity, coupled with the
contribution to earnings that should be
forthcoming from the many newly
acquired subsidiaries, the earnings for
the year ending June 30, 1963, should be
sufficient to pay a final 10 p.c. dividend,
making 20 p.c. for the whole year, a rate
the directors are confident will be main-
tained.
Although over the last couple of
months Brambles’ shares have been
marked up by about 2s. 6d. as a result
of the many recent favorable develop-
ments affecting the company in par-
ticular and the industry in general, at
around 17s. to yield 5.9 p.c. from the
20 p.c. dividend rate, Brambles still
appears to represent good buying. The
present price is about 16 times last
financial year’s low earnings (this price/
earnings ratio is low when compared
with previous years’ pricing of the stock),
and any recovery in earnings should
result in the price reacting accordingly.
Even the present dividend yield, by
itself, makes the stock an attractive
proposition, for, whilst it is high, it seems
assured from what the directors have
declared.
SUMMARY OF BALANCE SHEETS AND
PROFIT STATEMENTS
(£'000)
Year to June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Ord. capital 5/- 551 759 1645 2139 2139
Capital reserves 544 700 1900 2585 2631
Revenue surplus 146 302 500 726 704
Ord. SHF 1241 1761 4045 5450 5474
Outside shareholders ' — — 102 35 23
Convertible notes 102 189 387 387 337
Loans 155 178 660 725 _789
Total capital 1498 2428 5194 6597 6884
Represented by: ,r aa
Working capital 26 331 1295 1913 1588
Land and , ' ,, 2 o
buildings 245 526 1285 1445 1388
Other fixed assets 870 1316 2294 2920 3
Investments 313 315 320 319
Intangibles 44 — — ”
1498 2428 5194 6597 6884
Earnings % ordinary o
capital 29.0 42.2 31.1 28.9 22.8
Ord. div: % 20.0 20.0 20.0 20.0 20.0
Op. income %
total capital 29.0 46.5 36.2 31.9 •
Dividend yield % (a) 6.1 3.2 3.7 4.4
Price/earnings „ 145
ratio (a) 22.2 21.8 23.9 17.3 145
(a) Based on last sale month accounts presented.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
AEI LIMITED
REORGANISATION LOOKS CERTAIN
rpHE address given by the chairman of
AEI Ltd at the annual meeting
last month included some critical com-
ments on the Australian economy as seen
by a subsidiary of a British electrical
goods manufacturer.
‘There are certain factors present in
the Australian economic situation, affect-
ing manufacturers in particular, which
make it extremely difficult to forecast
future earnings,” said Sir Jack Stevens.
These transpired to be over-capacity
locally, and overseas where manufactur-
ers were exporting their surplus to Aus-
tralia, and the increasing pressure from
labor for higher wages and fringe bene-
fits.
The answer to high labor costs, Sir
Jack continued, was careful design and
use of modern manufacturing techniques
to reduce the amount of material in any
product, and careful purchasing.
He saw a paradox in Australia’s urge
to expand and develop, and on the other
hand the discouragement to secondary
industry which must provide the major
avenues of employment for a growing
population.
Results achieved in the year to October
31, 1962, were “prejudiced by lack of
buyer confidence,” particularly in - the
field of household electrical appliances.
The noticeable slowing down in the rate
of general industrial expansion over the
last two years had also affected demand
for electric motors, switchgear and con-
trol gear
The net result from trading was a
profit of £152,053, compared with the
previous year’s £124,216, and represent-
ed a meagre 3.8 p.c. on the original and
unchanged capital of £4 million.
As the earnings have not exceeded
8 p.c. on capital since the UK parent,
Associated Electrical Industries Ltd,
offered 1,050,000 20s. ordinary shares at
20s. 4d. to the Australian public in 1955,
that company has at last conceded that
the only way to ensure a satisfactory
future is to combine AEI with Associ-
ated’s other Australian interests, Siemens
Henley Pty Ltd and Crala Appliances
Pty Ltd.
To this end, the Australian sharehold-
ers of AEI have been offered the same
price, 20s. 4d., to which they should will-
ingly accede—especially those who paid
the minimum price of 9s. last year.
The accounts summary is therefore of
only historical interest, though it may be
of more than passing interest to others in
the industry, and other companies with
foreign parentage.
A spokesman for the British company
said the intense competition in the elec-
trical industry in Australia could not have
been predicted in 1955. (Last year AEI
withdrew from TV set manufacture.) It
probably did not reckon on removal of
import restrictions either.
The company’s outlook for the future
is cautious; already narrow profit mar-
gins could be reduced by further increas-
es in labor costs, said the chairman.
Demand for heavy electrical equip-
ment for power transmission and in-
dustry has been maintained at a reason-
able level, but the factories for general
engineering products are underemployed.
Substantial orders have been secured
from Supply authorities for switchgear
and transformers, from steel and alu-
minium interests for electrical equip-
ment, and from aluminium and zinc
interests for rectifiers.
Micro-tube type elements were devel-
oped during the year for use in electric
ranges, and product performance in the
electrical appliance field—which accounts
for 40 p.c. of group business—has been
steadily improved.
Associated Electrical Industries ob-
viously has in mind reorganisation and
rationalisation of its Australian activities,
which could in time sharpen its competi-
tion within the industry.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY £'000
„ 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 7605 7721 9205 9924 9151
Less current liabilities 5034 5019 6754 7429 7172
Working capital 2571 2702 2451 2495 1979
Fixed assets 2761 2969 3231 3195 3105
5332 5671 5682 5690 5084
Loan capital 770 1055 1040 1025 350
Outside interests 98 104 110 111 113
Ordinary capital 4000 4000 4000 4000 4000
Reserves 464 512 532 554 621
5332 5671 5682 5690 5084
Depreciation 179 257 294 277 266
Taxation 177 187 200 151 139
Net profit 240 273 265 124 152
Dividends 200 200 200 100 100
Surplus 40 73 65 24 52
Earning rate 6.0 6.8 6.6 3.0 3.8
Dividend rate 5 5 5 21, 2\
Dividend yield (a) 4.3 4.3 6.5 3.6 2.5
Price/earnings ratio (a) 20 17.5 11.5 23.3 32.2
High price (b) 29/6 27/3 26/6 16/- 16/6
Low price (b) 24/6 20/6 16/- 10/- 9/-
(a) End of February, following year (after presenta-
tion of accounts.
(b) Calendar year.
ALLEN TAYLOR AND CO. LTD
FUTURE TIED TO HOME BUILDING
A llen Taylor and Co. Ltd, largest
hardwood timber merchant in
NSW, suffered severely during the credit
squeeze and apptcrs still to be in trouble.
Following last year’s loss, the group may
not be able to do more than break even
on trading operations in the current
year.
The company has operated in various
forms since 1893 and became a public
company in 1910.
Between 1918 and 1960 results
showed some wide variations. The
company operated profitably until 1955,
except for three consecutive losses be-
tween 1931 and 1933. However, in no
year was the dividend cover very wide.
In 1955 the company lost £72,574, earn-
ed profits in the two following years,
incurred another loss in 1958, operated
profitably until 1961 and then incurred
a loss of £19,200 in 1962.
In that time capital rose from
£150,000 to £322,896 in 10/- shares.
Dividends also have been patchy over
the past eight years. No payments were
made between 1955 and 1958, 8 p.c.
was paid in 1959, 9 p.c. in the two fol-
lowing years and then in 1962, nothing.
The company operates principally on
the north coast of NSW where it has
11 mills as well as several depots. In
addition to supplying the State market,
the company also had a considerable
export business, particularly to New
Zealand.
This helped to ease the position at the
time of the credit squeeze, but late in
1960- New Zealand imposed import
restrictions. These plus the falling off
in home building, caused the setback in
1961-
However, directors did not waste the
slack time. They introduced a policy
of modernisation of the key mills and
depots, and eliminated the older, smal-
ler units. An advance from the Com-
monwealth Development Bank was used
for this purpose.
Accounts at June 30, the last balance
date, showed the company still needed
greater liquidity. Stocks were down
from £278,644 to £247,338 but debtors
showed only a small upward movement.
Creditors fell from £138,368 to
£122,092 but the movement was more
than matched by a rise in bank over-
draft from £203,180 to £229,859.
Plant and equipment at £268,357, an
increase of £27,853, reflected the mo-
dernisation programme and was financed
principally by a £17,800 increase to
£35,600 in the ban from the Develop-
ment Bank.
Reserves of £102,103, subject to in-
tangibles of £2663, give a good backing


ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
O. A. Ord, J. A. M. Minnett, M. A. Gleeson-White,
lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger
MEMBERS OP THE SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft, R. V. Betts
NON-MEMBER PARTNERS
13-15 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY. Tel. 25 5711, 25 6011
Telex 5243
BRANCHES AT:
150 Queen St., Melbourne • 859-369 Queen St., Brisbane
Cables & Telegrams ‘Orderley’ Sydney, Melbourne & Brisbane
to the capital of £322,896 and are equal
to 13s. Id. a 10s. share.
Since June the company has sold off
surplus assets often at prices above
book values in order to bolster liqui-
dity. Income from these sources more
than offset the deficit in trading to De-
cember 31.
Competition is still intense throughout
the industry, despite better homebuild-
ing figures, but the increase in these is
only slow; and as competition continues
the possibilities of a profit for the full
1962-63 year will remain in doubt.
But after that the position may be-
come easier. Homebuilding should be
more buoyant, while the new, more effi-
cient machinery should help to reduce
unit costs. A “marriage boom” has
been forecast sometime in 1964 which
will be reflected in the demand for new
homes.
The shares are currently languishing
around 65.; less than half the assets
backing. On performances so far this
year they appear fully priced, but
should show some capital appreciation in
the long term.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES — £'000
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 318 491 599 559
Less current liabilities 186 395 394 364
Working capital 132 96 205 195
Investments 9 5 5 5
Fixed assets 239 363 371 404
Intangibles — — 4 3
380 464 585 607
Represented by
Loan funds — 25 142 182
Ordinary capital 267 313' 323 " 323
Reserves 113 126 120 102
380 464 585 607
Depreciation 17(a) 32 49 46
Taxation —(a) — — —
Net profit 41(a) 48 33 Dr 19
Capital profit 2(a) — — 2
Dividends 21(a) 26 28 —
Surplus 22(a) 22 10 —
Earning rate % 15.5 16.1 12.2 —
Dividend rate % 8(a) 9 9 —
Dividend yield (b) 7.5 7.7 10.3 —
High price (c) 12/- 14/2 10/6 8/6
Low price (c) 5/9 9/3 8/- 5/9
(a) For 13 months.
(b) End of October, month accounts presented.
(c) Calendar year.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Ts the market trying to liken itself to
Sir Robert and his thistle “Wha
daur meddle wi me?” Probably what
we really need is to have that inter-
national speculator Nikita S. Khrushchev
enter the lists and display the same
success he had in the States. Close fol-
lowers of refined investment may recall
that his Philip Morris shares, acquired
in 1959, have risen by almost 50 p.c.
This market and its tone look very
much like my oil shares weak. Para-
doxically, most of my industrial shares
have remained loyally firm.
Courtaulds leads the band with its
rise to 17s. 6d. following that very good
interim report. Ignoring commission (I
only wish one could in share trans-
actions), I am on the right side of the
breakeven point. There is still some four
months to run on the option.
Next in rank Fairymead. By increasing
the dividend rate from 8 to 10 p.c., it
has recovered to 425. again. Obviously
the very good 1962 should pale into
insignificance when compared with the
current year. To continue the procession
Harden and Johnston behaves impec-
cably, the local Chrysler organisation has
just turned in an excellent result, and the
latecomer Bennett and Wood has steadily
risen to 16s. 6d.
Of course the portfolio is balanced
out with the Hookers and the Plastyne
Products. Also the general pessimism
prevailing in the stock market is difficult
to ignore. Yet how often has this type
of situation proved to be the right time
to invest? Therefore, I will simply abide
by that favorite investment cliche:
“selective buying.”
Out of the odd 1000 or so listed stocks,
the battering ram which appears to have
fallen on most of them descended quite
heavily on Kay Corporation. Unlike the
song, it is not a case of Che Sara.
Remembering its past, it should have
quite a future.
Many of us regard New Zealand as a
restful country, yet from those shores
came Mr Katrinski to establish Kay in
Melbourne only six years ago. Since
then the company has expanded to every
capital city. Operations cover both the
rental of cars and trucks on a casual
basis and the leasing of vehicles over
extended periods. More recently it has
gone into the long-term leasing of plant
and equipment. A separate subsidiary
maintains and services all the equipment.
Australia seems to pattern itself on the
American way of life and equipment
leasing is very much the modern touch.
Mr Katrinski’s enthusiasm in the pros-
pectus for the public issue last year was
borne out by the interim report. There
was an increase in both turnover and
profits for the half-year ended December,
1962. How much of an increase in the
earning rate was apparently not for
general publication. But it could be well
above last year’s adjusted 18.2 p.c.
Also coming into the current picture
is the takeover of Viking Traders, an
offshoot of Stanhill Consolidated. It is
certainly not the asset backing of less
than a penny for each ss. share Stan-
hill’s successful bid for this company in
1959 was equivalent to a mere 7s. 9d.
for the same share but the accumu-
lated losses of £.190,000 which must
have inspired the takeover.
So apart from the improved trading,
the lower tax provision will also help the
final profit figure. I managed to pick up
500 at Bs. lOd.
While Kay was added to the bottom of
the list, in true chain letter style I
knocked Malleys off the top. It had
been given more than a whirl. For
months it stood in a smug way watch-
ing stocks come and go. The rise to
245. 6d. made up my mind. Profit on
what turned out to be a long-term trans-
action was £73.
With that rare credit balance in the
account I decided to launch a new attack
on the oil market. Oil stocks were all so
low that you couldn’t lose much on a
quick purchase anyway. Woodside, with
an interest in four of the fifteen wells
currently being drilled, looked the pick,
so I settled on a thousand contributing
shares at 3s. Bd.
SOLD
400 Malleys, 24/6 £494
bought
500 Kay Corp., 8/10 £227
1000 Woodside ctg., 3/8 £193
I’m still short that 500 Carrier at
9s. 3d. The company is all the better
known in stockbroking circles following
the breakdown of the air conditioning in
the Stock Exchange last Friday.
My portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought share g/7
1000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11
1000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9
400 Jacoby Mitchell 12/11/62 IV”
100 Holyman Woods 26/11/62 1/3
800 Harden & Johnston 3/12/62 13/9
1000 Tasman N'ew 7/1/63 1/2
400 CRA 7/1/63 16/- IJ/6
1000 Plastyne ctg. 14/1/63 1/3
1000 Courtaulds options 14/1/63 2/1 "7
300 Fairymead 21/1/63 40/-
600 David Jones notes 21/1/63 17/3
2000 Hooker 64 options 28/1/63 1/-
2000 Alliance 1/2/63 1/1 ,
1000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4
100 G. E. Crane 8/2/63 77/6 79/
200 Philip Morris 14/2/63 34/6 35/
800 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3
600 A. V. Jennings 28/2/63 9/10
200 BHP 8/3/63 52/6 f
500 Carrier (short) 8/3/63 9/3 J .
500 Kay Corp. 14/3/63 8/10 %/a
1000 Woodside ctg. 14/3/63 3/8


THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers' letters seeking "The
Bulletin's" advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication. The balance have been answered personally.
What is your opinion of Brisbane
Permanent Building and Banking Co.,
and Provincial Traders? M.N., ln-
dooroopilly (Q’ld).
Brisbane Permanent Building & Bank-
ing Co. Ltd has not exhibited any
exciting growth over the years. Its
capital of £ 1 million has remained un-
changed since 1951. Earning rate has
crept up slowly each year and is now
11.4 p.c. to cover the 8 p.c. dividend
quite adequately.
At 31s. 9d. the 20s shares yield 5 p.c.
and would appeal chiefly to the cautious
investor interested primarily in a secure
income. But if this is your aim, you
would obtain a more attractive return
(and also a similar amount of growth)
from SEAQ or a gas company.
Provincial Traders’ capital has grown
from £248,000 in 1951 to £1,124,975
currently, and earnings related to capital
have improved since 1959 from 15.7 to
22.7 p.c.
The company’s business is an interest-
ing mixture margarine, stock foods,
plumbing contracting, grain production
and beef cattle raising. Interim report
for the six months tc December 31 was
a favorable one. The present price of
13s. 3d. is beneath the lowest price of
13s. 6d. at which the shares were traded
last calendar year, when they ranged up
to 16s. The yield of 3.8 p.c. compares
favorably with others in the industry, and
could be improved upo:i if the company
increased the dividend this year. The
shares look a reasonable purchase at
present price.
★ ★ ★
1 have 8000 units in the AFT Balanced
Fund bought over two years ago at
ss. They are now quoted at 4s. 3d.
Should I retain them or dispose of them
before they drop further? E.D.V.,
The Entrance (NSW).
The value of unit trusts depends not
on the demand and supply for
the units, but on the market value of the
whole portfolio. As the stock market is
at lower levels relative to those prevail-
ing 25 years ago the Sydney Stock
Exchange index for all ordinary shares
Was at a record level of 348.46 on Sep-
tember 16, 1960, compared with the
current level of 307.21 it is not
altogether surprising that the unit trusts,
which have a widely spread portfolio, are
also weaker in price.
The AFT Balanced Fund is adminis-
tered by the Australian Fixed Trusts,
which is the biggest and oldest unit trust
organisation operating in this country.
It is highly reputed, and provided you do
not urgently require funds, and must sell
to show a loss, we feel you have no cause
for anxiety.
Any form of investment outside bank
deposits is subject to some sort of price
fluctuation, and the investor must be
philosophical about it.
★ ★ ★
1 believe an American milling com-
pany, Ralston Purina, bought into an
Australian food firm in 1962. Can you
tell me which it was, and whether still
Used on the Stock Exchange. G.C.S.,
Oxley (Q’ld).
Ralston Purina acquired the Aus-
tralian company, Robert Harper and
Co., late in 1960. The ordinary shares
were then removed from Stock Ex-
change lists in Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Brisbane. The preference
shares, unaffected by the takeover, are
still listed.
★ ★ ★
My present portfolio is: 50 ACI; 360
Ampol; 75 AOG; 125 Albert G. Sims;
200 Bowling Centres Holdings; 300
Broons; 200 Cambridge Credit; 257
Capel National Fund; 40 Electronics 75
p.c. notes and 20 65 p.c. notes; 150
Freighters shares and 100 7 p.c. notes;
125 Johns Hydraulics; 100 Moulded
Products shares and 100 7 p.c. notes;
100 Northern TV; 100 Olympic Con-
solidated; 200 Peters (Vic.); 100 Plastic
Coating; 100 Tasmanian TV; 156
Waltons shares, 44 6 p.c. notes and 100
7 p.c. notes; 400 Woolworths shares and
100 6 p.c. notes; and £lOO in special
bonds.
1 am not much interested in income,
but want capital gains in 5 to 10 years.
What should I do to cut losses and
shorten the list? G.1.N., Deakin
(ACT).
ACI, Ampol, Olympic, Peters (Vic.),
Capel National Fund, Waltons and
Woolworths should be the core of your
portfolio. The rest should be considered
dispensable at any time.
It is hard to see an early recovery for
A. G. Sims, Freighters or Plastic Coat-
ing, and you could consider disposing of
them. Price of Bowling Centres shares
should improve if the results of the first
six months are maintained, and you
could recoup your money here.
You could consider buying more
Cambridge shares, through the rights, as
a short to medium term venture, giving
you the opportunity to sell when you are
showing a profit.
The odd parcels of Electronic notes
could be sold, as these show you a profit.
Moulded Products is having a more
difficult time than expected, and it may
be some time before you recoup your
paper loss on this one. The two tele-
casters could be disposed of when you
can make a profit, as you are anxious to
thin out the list.
Johns Hydraulics is expanding, and
should prove worthwhile holding. The
current issue may provide an opportunity
to increase your holding economically as
the rights trading continues until April 1.
Broons must strengthen its earning
rate this year for the shares to maintain
their price, and this stock should be
watched closely.
You could consider selling the AOGs
at some future time today’s price of
near 50s. could represent good value. But
if they hit 60s. again it might be wise to
take the profit, and reinvest in industrial
stocks.
★ ★ ★
/ will have £25,000 to invest shortly
and need security with a modest
income. 1 thought of investing £5OOO
in each of the following: lAC 7 p.c.
debentures; Ansett 85 p.c. notes; H. G.
Palmer 85 p.c. debentures; General
Credits 75 p.c. debentures; Mutual
Acceptance 8 p.c. notes. Is this a good
plan? D.A., Strathfield (NSW).
The more companies over which you
spread your £25,000 the better. You
are apparently investing for the highest
possible interest offered by companies
for the long currency. In most instances
these securities would be listed on the
Stock Exchange (provided the spread
between holders is great enough), other-
wise the companies usually set out in the
prospectus conditions under which the
money will be repaid before maturity.
Companies sometimes specify that the
withdrawal privilege may be exercised
only once during the term of the invest-
ment, and only up to, say, £5OO. If
an emergency arose and you wanted the
full £5OOO, you would have to wait
for the remaining £4500.
lAC and Mutual Acceptance appear
the best of the five you have chosen.
Other first class companies now seeking
loan money are: Lend Lease Corp.
(8 p.c. on 5 year debentures), and Deposit
and Investment (15 p.c. for 6 year
debentures).
If you write to any stockbroker he
will send you copies of prospectuses of
all the companies in which you are
interested, and arrange your loans at no
cost to you. (The companies pay him a
commission).


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
THEY'VE STOPPED THROWING EGGS
AT VICTORIAN EGG BOARD
T>rimary product marketing boards
have never been much-loved by
either public or newspapers in Victoria.
Over the years they have featured in
some colourful rows . . . rows which
have often ended with the sacking of an
entire board.
Few boards have faced more public
criticism, deserved and undeserved, and
been the forum for as many internecine
squabbles as the Victorian Egg and Pulp
Marketing Board.
Over the years the Board has been a
regular Aunt Sally for jibing cartoonists
and columnists, the target of thousands
of letters to editors.
The Board’s relations with Press and
public deteriorated to the stage at which
the public began to steer clear of Egg
Board eggs apparently the result of
a successful whispering campaign by
non-Board traders suggesting that Board
eggs were often bad.
Any price rise was the signal for an
outcry. This position was not eased by
the attitudes of some Board members
and ex-Board members. One member
regularly leaked information of price
rises to the papers days in advance.
Other Board officials flatly refused to
talk to reporters.
There were regular demands for the
abolition of the Board.
Had these conditions continued there
is little doubt the Board would have
foundered during the present crisis
facing the Victorian poultry industry
a crisis caused by over-production and
declining export sales.
But fortunately for the Board, the in-
dustry and probably for Victorian house-
wives the Board realised its plight a
couple of years ago and hired as general
manager a top administrator.
Mr D. K. Bain was formerly a top-
echelon executive with a firm manufac-
turing and selling office furniture. He
knew nothing of eggs or the poultry
industry.
But he DID know how a business
should be run and he realised the im-
portance of getting the customer on his
side.
Almost single-handed for a start, but
latterly with strong backing from a
majority of the Board, he has lifted the
Egg Board out of the mire.
Today the Board’s public image is the
best it has been in many years.
Mr Bain has introduced the egg in-
dustry to modern merchandising, adver-
tising and packaging techniques, stream-
lined many Board activities and pulled
large sections of the fragmented industry
together behind the Board.
He has made enemies, of course. Some
poultry farmers blame him probably
rightly for the Board’s active interest
in scientific quality improvement pro-
grams. They fear such a program in
Victoria could necessitate additional
capital investment and as yet only a
portion of the industry sees the glaring
need for quality improvement.
One of the most startling changes
during the Bain era has been the incred-
ibly good Press the Board has been
getting.
It still gets criticised at times, of
course . . . and often the criticisms are
the same carping rat-bag outbursts of
the old days.
But by taking newspaper men into its
confidence the Board has given the papers
and the public a new appreciation of the
industry’s problems and a better under-
standing of the Board’s attempts to deal
with them.
A price change no longer brings
suggestions that the poultry farmers are
“jacking up the price just to make bigger
profits.”
Most Victorians now have at least a
hazy idea that egg production is a sea-
sonal business and that egg prices must
inevitably be higher when eggs are in
short supply and low when the glut
occurs.
Strangely enough Mr Bain’s name sel-
dom appears in the newspapers.
He is not a publicity-seeker, nor a
way-out-in-front leader. He is first and
foremost an efficient executive .... one
of that indispensable band of men who
see a mess as a challenge.
He is the Victorian Egg Board’s big-
gest asset.
WHEAT INDUSTRY
EXPANSION
MAY BE CURBED
“golden days” of Australia’s wheat
A industry are drawing to a close.
It is now certain that the new five-
year wheat stabilisation plan to come
into force on December 1 will include
some curbs on the industry’s runaway
expansion.
The only question to be decided is
how severe these curbs will be.
The Australian Agricultural Council,
which debated the wheat industry’s
future at its recent Melbourne meeting,
restricted its public announcement to a
brief statement that the stabilisation plan
would be discussed further in April.
But circles close to the council (which
consists of Federal and State Agriculture
Ministers) say the Ministers indicated
by their attitudes and statements that
the present rapid growth of the wheat
industry could not be allowed to continue.
The council is also believed to have
indicated that it will reject the Australian
Wheatgrowers’ Federation’s request for
the present guaranteed price to be paid
on 150 million bushels of export wheat,
as well as wheat consumed in Australia.
At present the guaranteed price ex-
tends only to domestic wheat and 100
million bushels of export grain.
The curb on wheatgrowing is almost
certain to take the form of a change
in the yield divisor the figure rep-
resenting average wheat production per
acre used in assessing the annual cost of
production (and therefore the guaranteed
price).
The yield divisor was originally 131
bushels an acre, but when the present
stabilisation plan was adopted in 1958-59
it was lifted to 15i bushels.
The figure has been an artificial one,
however, because in recent years the
average yield has been about 3 bushels
an acre higher. These 3 bushels more
in the case of many farmers have
been clear profit.
Wheatgrowing has thus been more
profitable than woolgrowing, with the
result that the crop just harvested came
from an area 4 million acres bigger than
that sown to wheat three years ago
and the biggest wheat acreage for 30
years.
Yields have been rising steadily, too,
and, when the final figures are in, this
year’s harvest is expected to have topped
the magic 300 million bushel mark.
So far Australia has been lucky and
has cleared most of each year’s crop
'vithin 12 months of harvest. But we


THE SCOTS COLLEGE
Bellevue Hill, Sydney
Requires a
MASTER TO TEACH MATHEMATICS
to Third Year standard or beyond.
Duties begin on 28th May, 1963.
Ability to take part in extra-curricular
activities will be a recommendation.
Enquiries should be addressed to the
Acting Principal.
UNIVERSITY APPOINTMENTS
UNIVERSITY OF MELBOURNE
Senior Lectureship in Law
Applications are invited for a position of Senior
Lecturer in Law.
Teaching responsibilities will be determined in
accordance with the successful applicant's range of
interests.
The salary range is £2,450 to £3,000 per annum.
Initial salary will be determined according to quali-
fications and experience. Superannuation similar to
F.S.S.U. in Great Britain will be provided.
Conditions of appointment may be obtained from
the Registrar, University of Melbourne, Parkville,
N. 2, Victoria, and applications should reach him
by 15th April, 1963.
F. H. JOHNSTON, Registrar.
Missing Persons
RIDLEY—WiII any person able to give in-
formation concerning the movements, where-
abouts or death of JOHN GEORGE RIDLEY,
please communicate with KEENLYSIDE &
FORSTER, Solicitors, Newcastle upon Tyne
1, England. Employed on railway construction
around 1929 at Mataranka; Katherine; North-
ern Territory. In Darwin Hospital in 1934 —
then possibly at Brisbane.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE.
To; ARNOLD EDWARD BONNET. TAKE
NOTICE that MAISIE BROWNE MACKENZIE
BONNET has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3588 of 1962 on the gound of separation. If
you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney, by 26th April, 1963.
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. MARSH HARVEY &
CROPPER, Solicitors, 28 Martin Place. Sydney.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Matrimonial Causes Act, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE.
To: ALFRED JENSEN, late of East Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that LOLA KATHLEEN
JENSEN has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
341 of 1963 on the grounds of desertion and/
or separation. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the
26th day of April, 1963, and obtain a copy of
the petition and notice of petition without
charge from GREGG & MILNE, Solicitors,
4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. If you do not
wish to defend but wish to obtain copies of
all documents filed herein you should file a
notice of address for service.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
To- JOHN GIBSON late of 1 Clifford Avenue.
Fail-light. TAKE NOTICE that CATHERINE
MARY GIBSON has filed a petition for
Divorce No. 2802 of 1962 on the ground of
presumption of death or in the alternative
on the ground of desertion. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Macquarie Street,
Sydney by 12th April, 1963, and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
WALL & WALL, Solicitors of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
cannot expect always to be lucky and
have crop failures in Europe and Com-
munist China.
China has saved the wheatgrowers’
(and the taxpayers’) bacon in the last
two years of big harvests, but sooner or
later she can be expected to cease buying.
This could happen overnight . . . leav-
ing Australia with choked silos and a
wheat surplus problem smaller only in
size than that of the United States.
Acreage limits are too touchy a poli-
tical issue to receive any real considera-
tion, so the only way the Federal Gov-
ernment can hope to curb the industry is
to reduce its profitability.
The swing to wheat has been aggra-
vated by low wool prices much of our
wheat being grown in wool-wheat areas,
in which farmers can change fairly
quickly from one product to the other.
Now that wool prices appear to be
rising there could be some natural fall-
off in wheat acreage. It is possible this
factor will be taken into account by the
Agricultural Council and will lead to
less severe curbs than the wheat in-
dustry could otherwise have expected.
PLAN TO IMPROVE WOOLCLASSING
PThe Australian Wfool Bureau is to set
A up immediately a clip inspection
service and a register of woolclassers in
pursuance of its efforts to improve
preparation standards. The scheme will
be implemented from the beginning of
the 1963-64 wool selling season.
The registration proposal provides
for a stencil mark on the bale indicating
the number and category of the classer.
A letter prefix will indicate whether a
professional or owner-classer has pre-
pared the bale.
It has been agreed that consideration
be given to owner-classers becoming
eligible on performance for the same
style of stencil as professional classers
after a trial period.
The Bureau chairman .{Sir William
Gunn) said he hoped it would be recog-
nised by all sections of the industry
from growing to manufacturing that
the course of action would increase
efficiency and bring about an even more
acceptable final product.
Those who have the qualifications to
class wool should write to the Aus-
tralian Wool Bureau, 578 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for an application form.
“The scheme is not a compulsory one,
but it is in the interests of the wool
industry as a whole that it be supported,”
said Sir William.
“The inspection service work will
result in a report on any badly prepared
clip being sent to the grower concerned
and to the broker in whose catalogue it
is offered.”
MARKETING
ANTI-KNOCK IN THE PETROL BUSINESS
have been such obvious moves
in the last few weeks on the ad-
vertising side of the petrol business that
some of them have even become obvious
to the normally unsuspecting viewer.
It all started last year with the dram-
atic and, we hear, very successful “Tiger
in the Tank” campaign by Esso.
Apparently the principle of animals
in the business inspired the much
smaller Total to use them in a slightly
different fashion in what looks like an
attempt to “Twist the Tiger's Tail”, so
to speak.
Their TV campaign of a few weeks in
January featured a send-up on putting
a giraffe in the tank, and a rocket with
a sound effect somewhat reminiscent of
Ampol.
The public appears to have received
the whole thing a lot more good-humor-
edly than the industry, because we hear
the Total commercial has since been
banned by all TV stations throughout the
country.
This is not Total’s first attempt to
highlight the somewhat Disneyland-type
situation that the petrol industry seems
regularly to get itself into. Most people
recall when the industry was on its worst
additive jag ever, and the Total Com-
pany published its now classic advertise-
ment addressed to owners of intercon-
tinental ballistic missiles and jet aircraft,
pointing out in the strongest terms that
their product was quite unsuitable for
this type of craft, although eminently
suitable for automobiles for which it had
been designed.
For good measure it also suggested
that it could be used with great efficacy
in cigarette lighters and petrol lawn-
mowers.
‘No boolium; no foolium’ was the
theme of that campaign.
This may have been all very well,
except that by plan or coincidentally
with the demise of the Total commercial,
Esso changed its tack and featured a
cartoon of an African hunter impressing
on the viewers that this “Tiger in the
Tank” business was “only a figure of
speech.”
Well, if sanity was all they were trying
to get back into the business, maybe
Total has achieved something.


Feifier
UHAT
PIMM6R MVirATBD FROM
THT WHITE: HOUSE AUP
VOU SAM iUe CAN'T 60/
ART 'WCRAVI, MIMOW
60FF ? /
{jfrAtfT. its ra>
ALL OUR FRIENP&
IiXLL NM
bO?l
m cm.
mth it
if you
CAM-f v
CAN W,(W>A?CAW HOU,R£AUY?
THAT MR. AMP MBS. MWH 60FF60T
rn'iTep row urn House m mi
w&r o? all mm FRiews?
bOCD
emfi
i nmr
wmr
OF If \
THAT .
m! (
ml, ?me poi m m mat mu
CALL 05? TH6 SICCW UiT 6oFFSt AFffl?
Mtiemitifr copy mrm w authors of
cook tom wf 6tT irnwr aftcrus
THPf a mex
th£ imr-
L tifiOUS TO
M^OPAKT
m i mwh
00U5HT sim.
AMP A 60U) A).
m A W -
MX WRSH. IF W VectitiS
this time Mm bound ra
ASK V 5 A6AIO. IF FATE
FWOSH fJF/T t/FAf? FW£
' LOU TWKT
L its our.
RECOUP
we.
soresupe.
AW WHAf
MAK6A <4OO
SO POSITIVE
mem
ASK OS '
ASAIU?
ru. wera to m^mms
ATTACKIN6 THE PRESIDENT. HOU)
00 40) THIIJK me REST 0 F
OUR FRIEpiVS eoTMffit? f
We A
mm!
WXtOIJH ME,KIP. If mu
mr ro % in, wee urn
you 601 ro pßtrew that
mope our.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 737
ACROSS
I—Who’s on drugs, quite wrecked, where prize stock
parade? (11)
7—Place for spotting the turned up bee. (3)
9—Hard water turned in Boadicea’s folk. (5)
10— Deficiency having a close look working as a
servant. (9)
11— Topic editor brought under control. (9)
12— Genuine 1,000 in the kingdom. (5)
13— Commanded some W.A. river before coppers. (7)
16—Men about to help a girl. (6)
18—Game span. (6)
20 —Who pays the bill for a resi-
dent of new territory. (7)
23—Ocean-wrecked craft. (5) |
24—Roy Rene ran backwards to
the most elegantly stylish of
kings etc. (9)
27—Happening to tax and to
surgically open the abdomen.
, , .
28—A party for the very dis-
tinguished bank raised to
confine flood waters. (5)
29—Did last start with the finish
horseshoe diagram blushing.
30—Festival seasons chopped as
trees. (7)
15—Coppers stationery fifty and
territory for which Morpheus
gives passports. (9)
17—Mad biscuits. (8)
19—Don’t try to win a cricket
score with the majority. (3, 4)
21—Her veal is chopped up in
1S European port. (2, 5)
22—Plan South Carolina pro-
nouns. (6)
25—Sidonie celebrates too much
for this relation. (5)
26 Transport for the richest
registers. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 736


PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE OF COMMENT AND OPINION
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
ABOUT TANNER, BOADICEA, DISCUS AND CELLARMASTER
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
ABOUT ITS LIVELY FEATURES, LOCAL AND OVERSEAS NEWS
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
ABOUT ITS INTERVIEWS AND PERSONALITY PROFILES
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
AND MORE AND MORE PEOPLE ARE BUYING IT
MAKE SURE
OF RECEIVING
YOUR BULLETIN
REGULARLY
Just fill in and forward
this subscription formi
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G P. 0.. Sydney
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to be delivered to me each
week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick (V) whichever method of delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct subscription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for months
subscription to THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea): 1 year £2/12/-; \ year, £l/6/-,
post free. British Dominions, £3/6/-; other countries, £3/16/-.
NZ SUBSCRIPTION'S: Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.: Surface
Maii, 1 year £2/12/-; \ year, £l/6/- (N.Z. currency). Special air
copies: £5/4/-, 1 year; £2/12/-, \ year.
Please add exchange to cheques


Pour some over ice-cream for an exciting
dessert.
Use any cake recipe, omit half the milk or
water and use the same amount of BORONIA
Marsala.
For a delightful finish to your dinner, serve
as a liqueur. For a special treat, top with a
| mmm ggg
m i mammmM
.-£■* - ■
g§ mg
wumk
*
pi - -
A long drink with ice and your choice of soda,
lemonade, cola or dry ginger.
Delightful
in so many ways .. .
BORONIA Marsala all’Uovo is
a distinctive rich creamy liqueur
wine made only by S. Wynn
& Co. Pty. Ltd. to their own
secret formula.
lany have tried, unsuccessfully,
to imitate this subtle combin-
ition of aromatic and fragrant
flowers, herbs and roots gath-
ered from all over the world,
compounded with egg-yolks and
specially aged luscious wines.
BORONIA
“The Liqueur Wine of Romance”
remains truly unique.
I
* *
BORONIA
Sfflarmla
Ask for BORONIA bv name.
