

The Bulletin
JANUARY 12, 1963
Australia 1/-, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION - EST. 1880
TIME, SPACE and UNIVERSE
Australia’s role in Research


■
ss,;s
m
n
lIP
1
mm
• ■
1
n
■I
• .•> •
in
I
SIS
iffiilltlli
■
—n
HSI
11
■
•Sill
11
l
■■l
■
n
BraHHU
wmm
m- -s- "> " " W '■>>- * I- ■ is., i,
;
nm
am
wPiil
*\ m
V
Ss|
t
.
4»
■
& £
\
Mills
m
■■■
■V
: l, S-I
r'! “ - * ;■•• “-I
.
■
n - ——
sV*,., .
■
m
Air Cargo’d with Care ... to anywhere!
If anything has “FRAGILE” written all over it, it’s a TV picture
tube! Even when it’s standing still. But to send it overseas? Well,
uncross your fingers. Qantas Air Cargo treats picture tubes as
carefully as you would a crate of eggs (and they’re flown, too).
Perfect packaging and gentle handling is the answer. And whether
it’s a picture tube or tubes of toothpaste . . . whether animal,
vegetable or mineral, you can count on Qantas to handle it with an
efficiency and skill born of 42 years of air cargo experience.
Air Cargo to the World. Qantas Air Cargo, with its associated
airlines and interlining facilities with over 90 lATA airlines, enables
you to airfreight your goods to anywhere in the world. Qantas has
the experience, the know-how, the equipment, the people and the
aircraft to enable it to offer you fast, dependable Air Cargo services
to almost any part of the world.
Major markets only hours away. In effect, Qantas brings you
instant world markets. Think Qantas Air Cargo and think in terms
of hours, not weeks. Rest assured that Qantas has an appreciation
of the importance to you of the arrival on time and in perfect
condition of the merchandise you entrust to their care.
42 years of dependable service. The oldest established airline
in the English-speaking world, Qantas has grown up in the Air Cargo
business and has helped to make Air Cargo the dynamic force it has
become in the expanding world of international trade. Next time
you want to get your product there in a hurry, specify Qantas to your
Air Cargo Agent or contact Qantas.
QANTAS AIR CARGO
42 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
HOW THE QANTAS EXPORT
CONSULTANT SERVICE CAN HELP YOU:
Qantas puts at your disposal one of the
most comprehensive transport systems in
the world. Qantas analyses each export/
import problem individually and offers you
this Qantas six-point service—FßEE.
1. Distribution time and static time
analysis gives you a time and motion
plot on your goods from despatch to
arrival.
2. Costing breakdown on your complete
shipping operation.
3. Systematic appraisal of packaging with
suggested modifications for the lighter,
more economical handling and
packaging of your freight needs.
4. Advice on alternate routings,
accelerated cartage, taxation and
insurance reductions.
5. Analyses of current economic situation
of world markets, quarantine, import
currency and customs regulations.
6. A business venue in many overseas
countries in Qantas offices in Europe,
America, Asia, the Orient, New
Zealand and Africa.
EXPORT it by QANTAS if it’s
IMPORTant to you!
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, l
association with Air India, 8.0.A.C., S.A.A. and TEAL.
QAC75.FP8.122


National Notebook
They Float Through the Air
Five Australian men have just left for
Junin, Argentina, to take part in the
Ninth World Gliding Championships.
The Gliding Federation of Australia was
formed in 1948 but Australia did not
enter the world contest in any serious-
ness until 1960, when two Australian
pilots flew in borrowed planes.
The Australian team has entered a 13-
metre “Arrow,” built in Adelaide by
Harry Schneider. The firm of Edmund
Schneider Limited was established in
Adelaide a few years ago. Schneider had
been the owner of Germany’s largest
glider factory, which, being in the Rus-
sian zone, had been confiscated. Edmund
Schneider was producing top quality
planes for Australian gliding clubs before
he returned to Germany,
handing over to his son.
While Harry Schneider
was working on the proto-
type of the Arrow, the In-
ternational Gliding Society
announced that this year’s
contest would take place
in the Argentine instead of
Europe. This presented Australian pilots
with the possibility of wind and weather
conditions familiar to them and strange
to the Europeans. So Harry Schneider’s
Arrow was entered four years sooner
than it was expected to be ready.
The Arrow will be flown by Jack
Iggulden, of Victoria, who was Austra-
lian champion in 1960-61 and runner-
up in the 1961-62 series. Mr Iggulden left
the family engineering business a few
years ago to work full time as a novelist.
His first two novels were published in one
year, and the first of them, “Break-
through,” has been included in the Eng-
lish course at Geelong Teachers’ Train-
ing College.
Mr Iggulden has arranged for work-
shop facilities at Junin so that the Arrow
can be finished off properly. He hopes
to be in the first four out of an 18-nation
field. Incidentally the Australian charge
d’affaires in Buenos Aires, Mr R. W. Bul-
loch, is postponing the Australia Day re-
ception until February 1 so that the team
can attend.
Perth's Footpaths
Western Australia’s big leap forward
is knocking down a lot of cherished
institutions in its path. The Old Barracks
at the top of St George’s Terrace have
been marked down for extinction to make
way for a freeway. Now the verandah of
the city’s toniest pub is being threatened.
Unimpressed by the city’s high summer
temperatures, Perth City Council has
ruled that all verandahs must come down.
Since the edict was announced six years
ago, about 200 shady verandahs have
come down in the city block and been re-
placed in most cases by the only permit-
ted structures, suspended awnings or
cantilevers. The only reason given for
this change has been that verandahs are
untidy.
Only three verandahs now remain in
the city block—all on hotels. One is
allowed to remain because the whole hotel
is being demolished to make way for a
new highway. Another building is be-
ing closed down as a hotel because the
lessee says he cannot afford to replace
the verandah.
The Esplanade facing Swan Water is
the oqly business to hold out against the
edict, and owner Mrs Elsie
Plowman has not given any
reason for doing so. But in
a letter to a Perth news-
paper, Melbourne busi-
nessman Sir Frank Rich-
ardson described it as
probably the best-known
hotel-verandah in the
world. He said West Australians should
be aware of its historical, architectural
and functional appeal and should be en-
couraging Mrs Plowman to preserve it.
Instead of abolishing the verandah, the
council should be abolishing its own
by-law.
Perth architect Marshall Clifton
pointed out that the no-verandah edict
had not the desired effect. Where posts
had been removed in other parts of the
city the footpaths become more cluttered
than before with fixed signs and parking
meters.
The Ticket
HPhe appointment of Mrs F. K. Mahon
as a parking-meter attendant in
Hobart may take some of the sting out
of the yellow tickets which Hobart
motorists regularly accumulate under
their windscreen wipers. Mrs Mahon, who
is Australia’s first woman parking atten-
dant, was chosen from 57 applicants.
Mrs Mahon said she had applied for the
job because she “liked meeting people.”
Whether people will like meeting her is
another question.
Career Nuns
T)erthians who have sometimes peeped
over the wall of the Home of the
Good Shepherd in Leederville have never
seen any signs of life, though it is known
that a number of “fallen women” are
PROF. HARRY MESSEL Page 12
The Narrabri Star Gazers
\ •
Will Menzies Retire in 1963? 6
Andrea: Free from Husbands,
Bunions and Regrets .... .... 15
Because My Skin is Black—A
look at Olabisi Ajala 17
Carmen Mcßae: The Last Note 18
Middy’s Moustaches 19
Our Coming Dependence on
Red China? 20
Lung Cancer Advertisements .. 21
Prince Sihanouk—The Man in
the Middle 27
Summer Holiday—A Pat Flower
Story 27
The New York Newspaper
Strike 29
Is Everyone Reading Lawrence? 37
In Defence of Chowilla Dam .. 40
Japan Treaty Awaited 41
Specialists on Coal Industry .... 44
TANNER # 4
PLAIN ENGLISH ..... 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 6
AROUND MELBOURNE 11
OUT AND ABOUT 15
FORUM 20
SHORT STORY 22
OVERSEAS 27
New York NEWSLETTER 29
LETTERS 31
REVIEWS 33
POETRY 36
RED PAGE 37
MAN ON THE LAND 40
WORLD OF BUSINESS 41
FEIFFER ..... 50,
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone
27-5971. Melbourne: Phone MF3341. Bris-
bane: Phone 82691. Adelaide: Phone
W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
No. 4326


housed there under the care of the nuns.
But last week the order was advertising
for “career” nuns. “Are you thinking of
a career?” said the advertisement in the
Catholic newspaper, “The Record”.
“Why not be a nun?”
Investigations revealed that the ad-
vertisement was written by a middle-
aged nun who once wanted to be a
journalist. It had the blessing of the
Mother Prioress, who said it was neces-
sary because the order had a recruiting
problem. She also let it be known that
contrary to popular belief the convent
was a veritable hive of industry. There
were classes in typing, sewing, handi-
crafts, home economics and music. Out-
side teachers conducted regular pallet
lessons, mothercraft classes and Red
Cross meetings. For those who don’t
want to be uplifted there is the laundry
which supplies Perth’s Catholic hospitals
and a swimming pool which has accom-
modated David Dickson and Murray
Rose.
The Mother Prioress did not apologise
for using the word “career” in relation
to her. order. Looking after restless teen-
age girls was a full-time job calling for
specialists, and this applied to religious
orders as well as to the community at
large.
In touch with the times
Tf you are in business in Melbourne
you are not with it unless you have
two-way radio. There are corset manu-
facturers who have two-way radio cars
ready to dash for any sudden bulging
emergency. Melbourne’s leading pie
manufacturers have two-way radio ready
to cope with urgent and instant demands
for hot pies.
Now we have heard that the night
cart at Clayton has two-way radio. Paris,
Rome, New York and Tokyo may be
more sophisticated cities but we feel that
with two-way radio in a night cart Mel-
bourne chalked up a world first.
>4 toast in Sydney mud
TTnhappy, conservative Adelaide,
already crippled by absurd hotel
hours, has received another blow to its
attempts at civilised drinking. Restaur-
ateurs discovered in Christmas week
that, under the South Australian
Licensing Act, they are forbidden to
serve wines on Christmas Day. More
remarkable still was that the Adelaide
“Advertiser”, which as a rule hesitates
to publish even hints at criticism of the
Playford Government, conducted a sur-
vey of Adelaide hotels and restaurants,
revealing that “more people were ‘eat-
ing out' for Christmas dinner but the
hotels were getting most of the trade.”
At the same time, many restaurants,
embarrassed at the provisions of the
Licensing Act, closed on Christmas Day
rather thgn serve Christmas dinner with-
out wine. One restaurateur was re-
ported as saying: “We proprietors feel
that a teetotal Christmas dinner would
not be greatly appreciated by the cus-
tomers.” Mr E. Balogh, the manager of
Ernest’s one of Adelaide’s most pro-
gressive and pleasant restaurants re-
vealed that no less a person than the
Baptist Premier. Sir Thomas Playford.
himself had told him that “wines were
not to be served on Christmas Day in
any circumstances.”
/ The president of the SA Restaurants’
Association, Mr E. Fuss, lived up to his
name, and loudly protested against the
Government’s attitude. He said laws
which prohibited wine with Christmas
dinner were “outdated, unjust, and in-
tolerable.”
This matter of drinking alcohol
might not be so serious for South Aus-
tralians — and visitors \to the State—-
were it not that Adelaide water is with-
out any doubt at all the most horrible
drink available in Australia. True, South
Australia has remained the only Aus-
tralian State which has not been'
afflicted by water restrictions. But Sir
Thomas Playford’s endless water supply !
from the River Murray is becoming (
steadily more undrinkable, and- the'
chlorination plant which treats it on its
way to the public mains makes it even
more unpleasant. At least the purveyors
of household equipment for softening
and purifying water are doing record:
business.
The progress of Adelaide and of
South Australia as a whole —is par-
ticularly noticeable to people returning
to their birthplace after a number of
years away. But the matter of what to
drink and wash with —in Adelaide'
is a big problem. A schoolmaster there
remarked wryly to us: “Isn’t progress!
wonderful? Who wou'd have
20 years ago that in 1963 the people of i
Adelaide would be able to turn onf
their taps and get a supply of New'
South Wales mud?”
Tanner
"We will proceed with reunification
of the Congo . . .
"Just css soon as W 3 finish . . •


Wedding bells
An account of what we are prepared
to concede was the wedding of 1962
has just filtered through to us from
Cairns, North Queensland. In the closing
days of the year the following notice
appeared in the Cairns “Post”: “Leonard
James Ross, photographer and investor
of new idea radio aerial static eliminator
and lighting controller—and many other
household and farm benefits (to be made
known) —is pleased to announce his
matrimonial union with Mrs Ellen Kraue
Mills to be solemnised at Church of
England, Cairns, and gives an open in-
vitation to the public of Cairns —and
whosoever will —to witness the marriage
of the year 1962. And also attend the
wedding reception at Aquatic Hall. In-
tending visitors please notify the Golden
Pheasant by 5 p.m., so that proper
arrangements can be made for food, etc.
I intend to give a short address before
meal partaken of. Note: St. John 4.24
God is a spirit; And they that worship
Him must worship Him in spirit and
in truth. Amen. Christ is at your door
—what will you do?”
On the wedding day curious crowds
converged on the Church of England,
only to discover the bridegroom had
transferred his patronage to the Method-
ist Church.
At the last minute bride, bridegroom
and guests were denied access to the
place of reception, so they adjourned
to a local cafe, which presented Mr
and Mrs Ross with a bag of cakes and
scones as a wedding present.
"Reunification of the UN".
PLAIN ENGLISH
GETTING DEEPER INTO THE RED
TN liis Forum article on Australian wheat sales to Red China on page
20 of this issue Mr E. J. Donath again raises the question the
mention of which only a couple of years ago was widely regarded as a
sign of hysteria of just how dependent we are prepared to become on
the Communist market. No one objects to a certain amount of trade
with Communist countries, but Red China has not only become our
biggest wheat customer; we are expanding our production at a time
when markets elsewhere are contracting so that we will have to sell
more and more to Red China, and, worse still, the Federal Government
is actually subsidising the sales. Obviously if this continues Red China
and its apologists in Australia will be able to put strong pressure on us
to adopt political and diplomatic policies directly contrary to our long-
term interests.
There would be no problem if wheat were a small industry, but
it is one of our greatest industries. In recent years many spokesmen
for rural producers have shown unexpected political naivete in relation
to Communist markets—who can forget, for example, the famous remark
by the President of the Farmers and Settlers’ Association that we could
sell all our wool clip to Red China if every Chinese bought two pairs
of socks but the time has surely come for stocktaking.
The whole thing is only one aspect of Australia’s lack of foward
thinking in rural policy. We have it on high authority that in order to
maintain necessary imports over the next ten years, we will have to
increase our exports by up to ,£6OO million; and these exports must be
largely primary products. At the same time both export prices and
rates of rural growth are falling. Faced with this problem too many
people still trot out old-fashioned ideas, for example, of closer settle-
ment (when the problem is not how to put people on the land, but how
to get them off, in order to make room for larger, more productive units),
of the need for more schemes like the Snowy River Scheme (when we
still have not worked out what to do with its water), of the need
for more irrigation (when in the coming years Australian high-cost
irrigation crops are going to become harder and harder to sell), or of
the need for more “stabilisation” schemes, even for wool! (although
stabilisation commonly leads to a fall-off in enterprise).
The problem of rural production in Australia is such a great one that
probably what is needed is a comprehensive inquiry into the whole of
rural industry as has been advocated by the National Farmers’ Union.
The most obvious urgent needs are for more rural investment and more
rural technology. We are still living on the rural investment of the
early 1950’s and the Development Bank has so far had little impact;
and technologically there is still too great a gulf in some industries
between scientific knowledge and farm practice: as one observer put it,
describing prevalent Australian practices, “In farming perhaps more
than any other activity it is possible for the incompetent and the lazy
to remain in control of sizeable business concerns for long periods.
But whatever solutions are found in the long run it is clearly
dangerous to continue the present policy of concentrating less on
production than on marketing, and even there, despite the tremendous
amount of enterprise that has been shown by' Australian exporters
throughout the world, to end up dangerously dependent on Red China
for one of our major exports.


THIS AUSTRALIA
CANBERRA
WILL MENZIES
RETIRE IN 1963?
R. G. MENZIES
“If I am PM.”
And Holt, as "The Old Pretender" f
risk a "popular" budget?
As I see it
TpREASURER
A Harold
Holt des-
cribed by his opposite number in the
Labor Party, Gough Whitlam, as “The
Old Pretender"—faces a perplexing year
in 1963. He has to decide whether or not
to reduce taxes in the coming budget.
For Holt it is a tw'o-pronged dilemma.
First he has a political problem on his
hands. Prime Minister Menzies at the
annual “do" he gives Commonwealth
Departmental heads in Canberra at
Christmas tifne apparently made some
remark about the Government's inten-
tions in late 1963. “That is if I am Prime
Minister this time next year,” he is re-
ported to have quipped.
Menzies' quip may have been a jocular
reference to his floor majority of one in
the House of Representatives. No Prime
Minister with that kind of majority can
be confident of lasting out his full term,
which in Menzies' case is until 1964. But
Menzies might not have been speaking
jocularly. He might have been giving a
hint that he is contemplating retirement
before the next elections. Some of the
Public Servants w'ho were present thought
that he might have been. It is the kind
of possibility that Holt, now' 54, who has
nursed for 20 years the ambition to wind
up in the Prime Ministerial seat and has
been the non-Labor "Pretender" for that
length of time, cannot afford to ignore.
If Holt is going to get the Prime Minis-
tership, his best opportunity will come
when Menzies pulls out. If he does not
get it then,' the chances of him ever get-
ting it grow more slender. You do not
often get a second crack at that kind of
a job.
But at the moment Holt's stocks are
not terribly high within the Liberal Party.
Liberal parliamentarians confess pri-
vately to having no ambition to face an
election now or in the immediate future.
Australia's employment, economic and
financial situation improved during 1962.
And the Labor Opposition did nothing to
justify any increase in its electoral popu-
larity. But the Liberal parliamentarians'
assessment is that the Menzies Govern-
ment is still an appreciable distance from
regaining the confidence of an electorate
that came within a handful of votes and
two House of Representatives seats of
rejecting it at the 1961 general elections.
This assessment is apparently confirmed
by the Liberal Party's field reports, which
suggest that the Government has a long
way to go to recapture the standing it
enjoyed with the voters prior to 1961.
Holt is getting the backwash from this.
He, as Treasurer, was officially respon-
sible for the 1960 economic measures
which however necessary appeared
to him and Cabinet at the time gave the
Australian community an awful shake
and started Labor on its yet unearned way
back to the political bigtime.
Holt is no political neophyte. He has
been in the game a long time. He was
only 27 when he entered the Parliament
in 1935, and as No. 2 in the Liberals’
Parliamentary hierarchy he has been
within grasping distance of the Prime
Minister's chair since at least 1956. He
knows that, just as the unpopular finan-
cial measures of 1960 followed by a near
reverse at the subsequent 1961 elections
put him out of Liberal favor, a “popular'’
Budget this year—particularly if it pro-
duced obvious signs of a restoration of
the Government's credit with the elec-
torate —could bring him back into favor.
His problem is whether to take a bit of
a risk and produce a “popular'’ Budget
this year (when if Menzies should retire
he will need popularity urgently with his
Liberal parliamentary colleagues), or
gamble on Menzies continuing as Prime
Minister, play safe from the Budget view-
point, and defer tax cuts until 1964 when
the Government's term is scheduled to
run out and it has to face the electors.
Apart altogether from his' personal
position, Holt will be under heavy pres-
sure to give concessions in the 1963
Budget. President Kennedy has already
announced his desire to give tax cuts in
the United States to stimulate employ-
ment and business activity. This will un-
doubtedly have a psychological effect
upon Liberal parliamentarians. A sub-
stantial Liberal group believes that Holt
with his post-1961 election emergency
financial measures “primed” the public
section of the economy to the limit and
the fact that this still left a residue of
unemployed and unused capacity points
to the need for a heavier “priming”
of the private sector of the economy
This is the type of respectable argument
based on national rather than sectional
considerations which no Treasurer cat
afford to ignore without losing further
popularity with the backbenchers.
THE BABY FARM
January 13, 1883
T>eople —-we mean ladies who have
got infants they want to farm out
—will be glad to learn that there is
in Pyrmont a party by the name of
Blank who will take children (we
quote a letter of his to a lady) “for
good and all” for the modest sum of
£3OO. Then he says, “No doubt we
will come to some arrangement by a
personal interview; but as I have
several offers, reply at your earliest
convenience.” To poor mechanics
with large families Mr Blank will be
a boon, indeed, and they ought to
thank Heaven this disinterested lover
of infants has arrived. We wonder, by
the way, how large Mr Blank’s farm
we mean family is at the pre-
sent time. We also wonder —Ah, bah!
VI/Ben the lately deceased Anthony
” Trollope was some years ago on
a -visit to his son, at Mortray station,
near Forbes, an inquisitive traveller
of the gushing style, abruptly saluted
him with, “And are you really the
famous Mr Trollope?” “I believe so,”
was the not over-cordial reply. “Oh,
I've read ever so many of your works,”
gushed his interlocuter. “It is a pity
you had not something better to do!”
was the frosty reply, and the enthus-
iast decamped.


Then Holt looks as though he is going
to end the financial year much better off
than he expected to be when he brought
down his Budget in August last. Holt
budgeted for a £118,000,000 deficit in
the financial year now more than half
over. But due to a number of factors —
including the unexpected buoyancy of the
loan market, a sharper upturn than ex-
pected in employment and overtime earn-
ings, higher new car registrations, and
the like—his deficit could be £50,000,000
or less. There are those who go even
further. They forecast that there will not
be any deficit at all, and if at June 30
next the official figures show a nominal
deficit it will be because quite a swag of
Commonwealth money will be concealed
under all kinds of government logs for
use in the pre-election Budget of 1964.
But in any circumstances, if the Com-
monwealth completes the 1962/63 finan-
cial year better off (as it seems likely to
be) than it anticipated when it framed
the 1962 Budget this factor alone will
produce a pressure upon Holt for a
“popular” 1963 Budget.
But then Holt runs on to the economic
prong of his dilemma. He has been able
to raise a lot of loan money during 1962/
63. But there are signs that re-activated
business is increasingly taking up over-
draft money and will be seeking addi-
tional funds from the public. Will a com-
mensurate amount of loan money be
available to the Commonwealth during
1963/64? Or will a high proportion of
the money available to Government this
year be diverted into other channels
during the coming year?
Commonwealth expenditure is going to
rise. That has now become as inevitable
as the breaking of a new day. But there
is a twelve-month lag in company tax
collections. Quite a number of com-
panies—big companies—have gone to the
financial wailing wall recently. Others
have been operating in the red, or show-
ing reduced earnings. What is the Com-
monwealth going to get from loans and
company taxes in 1963/64? Would it
not be better to “gang warily” at this
stage and see what happens so that you
are certain you will not be framing your
1964 Budget (with a general election
coming up in a few months’s time) lack-
ing the ability to hand out to the elec-
tors a few douceurs or sweeteners?
ALAN REID
UNIONS
A BIG YEAR
FOR STRIKES?
Waiting for Tuesday, February 5
J. KENNY
“Not from
Sir Richard..."
This year shows all the signs of being
a big year for strikes. As early as
Tuesday, February 5, the Full Bench of
the Commonwealth Arbitration Com-
mission will simultaneously hear three
claims: the 1963 basic wage case; the
adjourned three-weeks annual leave
claim; and the metal trades margins
case. The adversaries in the three cases
are the employers’ organisations and
the Australian Council of Trade Unions.
The President of the Arbitration
Commission, Sir Richard Kirby, in
announcing the simultaneous hearing of
the three cases last month, said this was
designed to avoid duplication in evidence
which certainly would occur if the cases
were heard separately.
While no one can accurately forecast
which way the Commission will jump
on any issue, it does seem certain that
they will grant the unions’ claim for an
additional three weeks’ leave. When it
adjourned the case last May the Com-
mission announced that it intended to
grant three weeks’ leave when the
economy could stand it.
The second immediate reason why
three weeks’ leave appears certain is that
it is unlikely that all three o f the unions’
claims would be rejected. If they were
there would virtually be an end to the
Arbitration Commission as the unions
en masse would give it a wide berth.
But the signs of impending strike
action in the coming year can already
be seen from the way strike pressure is
being put on the president of the Aus-
tralian Council of Trade Unions, Albert
Monk, and the vice-president of the
ACTU and secretary of the NSW Trades
and Labor Council, Jim Kenny.
The ACTU is engaged on a long
campaign on three issues: three weeks’
leave; higher margins for workers under
Federal Awards; and a 35-hour week.
Back in September last year an ex-
tremely tense meeting of 3000 shop
stewards and union delegates was held
in the Sydney Town Hall as part of the
campaign. It was all Kenny could do
to restrain the meeting from calling for
a 24-hour national stoppage on the three
weeks issue. At a meeting of a Federal
unions’ conference in November, the
ACTU Executive members showed their
concern at the way some Communist
and so-called left-wing unions had
abused the campaign by calling “spon-
taneous” strikes on the issues. The
Executive of the ACTU rebuked “certain
individuals and shop area committees’
for organising the stoppages. As all
these “spontaneous” strikes had to be
turned into political strikes by the Com-
munist union officials concerned they
generally were linked with the abolition
of the penal provisions in the Arbitra-
tion Act.
Although the ACTU Executive’s cam-
paign is clearly based on a no-strike
policy the Communist secretary of the
Brisbane Trades and Labor Council, and
a member of the ACTU Executive, Mr
Alex Macdonald, went the opposite way
in Brisbane last month when he moved
a motion at a Combined Unions Con-
ference: “We ask the Trades and Labor
Council (of Brisbane) in conjunction
with the unions and groups of unions,
to arrange sectional district or overall
stoppages of varying duration in support
of demands for increased margins and
the minimum of three weeks’ leave.”
The chairman of the Conference,
Queensland secretary of the Printing
Union, ruled out of order another motion
which sought to delete the “strike” sec-
tion, and Macdonald, in defending the
chairman, made the extraordinary state-
ment that “. . . possible job stoppages
would be a matter for decision by the
men involved.” As a member of the Inter-
state Executive of the ACTU he would
have clearly known this was against the
ACTU’s policy, and he would also have
been aware that such a statement itself
was against the rules of the Queensland
Trades and Labor Council. But this
decision represents a clear threat to
Monk and Kenny that “spontaneous”
strikes will increase early this year.
If the Commission should decide
against all three of the unions’ claims at
the February hearings, it would be im-
possible for any group of leaders to
control the reactions of trade unionists
who would certainly echo Kenny’s
words spoken last September when he
discussed the Court’s adjournment of
the three weeks’ leave issue: “We won’t
cop that decision from Sir Richard . . .
or anyone else.”
MUGGA


INDUSTRIES
THE DEATH OF JOE HEWITT
"We will never replace him“
J. M. HEWITT
Back-room
|”|n the last Sunday of 1962 Australia
lost one of its most capable top
“back-room” administrators, Joseph Mar-
tin Hewitt. OBE, LLB, the Chairman of
the Australian Stevedoring Industry
Authority. Aged 53, he died of a sudden
heart attack while holidaying with some
old friends at Bateman's Bay, NSW. He
leaves a widow and three children.
A short, quietly-spoken man with a
face at once sharp and benign, “Joe”
Hewitt, like most of the silent service of
back-room administrators, sought no
publicity and few' people would have
known his name although he sat on top
of Australia's most turbulent industry.
His early years were as little known
as his later years. He spent his early
childhood around Katoomba and Gos-
ford districts and at the age of 21,
when the depression had hit the citrus
growers around Ourimbah, he moved
to Sydney, took up a job at the GPO in
Sydney and was transferred to the
Attorney-General’s Department. After
studying at night he matriculated, won
a scholarship to the Law School at
Sydney University, gained his Law
degree studying part-time, and graduated
in 1940.
His first break came in 1945 when he
joined the staff of Dr Evatt, then At-
torney-General and Minister for External
Affairs, as liaison officer between Evatt
and the Attorney-General's Department.
In 1947 the Chifiey Labor Govern-
ment appointed him deputy to Sir Rich-
ard Kirbv on the Stevedoring Industry
Commission. He served two successful
years under Sir Richard and when the
Federal Government was forced to
abolish the Commission because of the
refusal of the Communist Party and the
Secretary of the Waterside Workers’
Federation, the late Mr Jim Healy, to
co-operate, the Federal Government set
up the Australian Stevedoring Industry
Board and appointed 40-year-old Mr
Hewitt as chairman.
At the time he became chairman,
Healy and Roach were serving a 12
months’ gaol sentence for contempt of
court, the union and the shipowners
were at each other’s throats and both
were against the formation of the
Stevedoring Industry Board. In turn
Hewitt had to attack the shipowners for
(heir belligerence, the stevedoring com-
panies for their inefficiency, and the
Communists for their use of the water-
front as a means of spreading Com-
munist political propaganda.
He ran the gamut of the Tait Inquiry
set up in 1954, mainly through the
pressure of the shipowners on the Com-
monwealth Government. He spent
weeks in the box and was subject to
searching cross-examinations into the
administration of the Stevedoring In-
dustry Board. The inquiry sat for nearly
two years and resulted in the setting up
of a new Statutory body the Australian
Stevedoring Industry Authority. The
Government appointed Mr Hewitt as its
chairman. By this time even the ship-
owners believed in his impartiality.
But 1956 was the period in which the
Labor Party cracked in all States and
it began to lose most of the influence it
had in the Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion to the Communist Party. To Mr
Hewitt, a Labor supporter of the type
who believed in a coalition of the left,
right and centre of the Party, the role of
his old boss, Dr Evatt, was a disappoint-
ment. His position made it impossible for
him to support the Industrial Groups.
The Hursey case followed soon after.
The Communist leaders of the Water-
side Workers’ Federation wanted to pre-
vent the Hurseys from earning their
living on the waterfront unless they
agreed that part of their union dues
should be paid to a political party of
the Federation’s choice. There were
many strikes and the use of strong-arm
tactics during the row, and as Chairman
of the Authority on the waterfront, Mr
Hewitt had to remain impartial. Both
the Communists and some shipowners
wanted to get rid of the Hurseys and
the ACTU Executive tried to dodge the
issue by formally requesting Mr Hewitt
to grant the Hurseys “leave of absence”
until the dispute could be settled. He
refused the request and pointed out that
he could not grant leave of absence to
the Hurseys unless they applied for it.
The Stevedoring Industry Authority had
to suspend many waterside workers for
refusing to work with the Hurseys and
for striking. The ACTU Executive,
narked because he refused to get them
out of the hot seat, described the
Authority’s attitude as “unco-operative.”
It is no wonder with all his ex-
perience that he became one of the
foundation members of the Industrial
Relations Society of NSW. If anyone
had any experience in industrial rela-
tions it was Joe Hewitt. Although he
presented no papers to the Society,
other foundation members describe his
advice, enthusiasm and administrative
capability as invaluable in getting the
Society started. When he died he was
vice-president.
Apart from his membership of the
Australian Association for Cultural
Freedom, his only other known group
interest was in ornithology.
The number and eminence of the
people at his funeral last week bear
testimony to the devotion which most of
his associates had for Joe Hewitt. All
of them would echo his ministerial
superior, Mr W. McMahon, who said
on learning of his death: “We will put
someone else in his place —but we wull
never replace him.”
PETER KELLY
THE BONIECKI AFFAIR
IRON CURTAIN MIGRANTS
"Political Asylum w as net requested"
11/| r. Jerzy (George) Boniecki, until
recently the Polish Commercial Con-
sul in Sydney and a top salesman for the
huge Metalexport machine group in War-
saw', is remaining in Australia with his
family as a migrant. Political asylum was
not requested at any stage. Both Mr Boni-
ecki in Sydney and Immigration and Ex-
ternal Affairs officials in Canberra are
emphatic on this point. An official at the
Polish Consulate-General in Sydney had
the usual “no comment” formula ready
and the Polish authorities so far have
made no charges against Mr Boniecki,
who is probably the first Iron Curtain
representative to remain in Australia as
a private citizen, without going through
the sensational heroics of seeking poli-
tical asylum.
Although news of Mr Boniecki's deci-


sion made headlines throughout Australia
as soon as a reporter on shipping rounds
was accidentally tipped off, the story is
actually almost a month old. Mr Boniecki
had completed his term as the Polish
Commercial Consul in Sydney on Dec-
ember 4, 1962. He then went on leave
and on December 12 wrote to Professor
Trampczynski, the Polish Minister for
Foreign Trade, saying that he was resign-
ing from the Polish foreign trade service.
No reply has been received so far, but as
Mr Boniecki points out, these things usu-
ally take some time.
An the same day he had applied to the
lmmigration Department for permis-
sion to remain in Australia as a migrant
with his attractive dark-haired wife Zofia
and their two children 13-year-old
daughter Jagoda and 10-year-old son Ted
(Tadek). The family had already moved
out from their comfortable, though not
luxurious, official residence at Double
Bay into modest quarters at Dover
Heights. A few days later their entry
permits were issued and the Bonieckis
settled down to their first migrant Christ-
mas in Australia.
Mr Boniecki told The Bulletin that
his decision was strictly personal and has
no political implications. He stressed that
he has tried not to do or say anything
that could have an adverse effect on
Polish-Australian trade or on Poland’s
participation in the Melbourne and Syd-
ney trade fairs.
What then made Mr. Boniecki decide
to resign and stay in Australia? He obvi-
ously likes Australia—its high standard
of living, its friendly people and good
business opportunities for energetic
young men. But the casual explanation
that he was quite content to live it up
as Warsaw’s Commercial Consul but
quit as soon as he was recalled is hardly
appropriate.
The handsome 33-year-old law gradu-
ate and foreign trade expert was a
dynamic worker absorbed in his work.
Hard work, a pleasant personality and
a good command of English combined
with a natural sense of tact helped him
make a success of his job. His ability
to concentrate on strictly trade activities,
frank attitude to political realities and
informal but factual manner with finan-
cial journalists helped him build up
friendly business contacts. The same
personal traits and a circumspect ap-
proach to peculiar sensitivities enabled
Mr Boniecki to extend his business con-
nections to the numerically strong Polish
community, traditionally hostile to the
Communist regime in Warsaw but often
prepared to treat its representatives on
individual merit and differentiate between
normal business and politics.
Arriving in Australia in November,
1959 as a representative of Metalexport
Mr Boniecki became Acting Commercial
Consul after the defection of his imme-
diate predecessor, Dr S. R. Zielinski,
almost exactly two years ago. He was
appointed Commercial Consul in Decem-
ber 1961. There is no doubt that Mr.
Boniecki was successful in his trade pro-
motion. In his first year in Australia he
sold over £lBO,OOO worth of Metal-
export’s machines. In August 1961 he
sold all the Polish exhibits at the Sydney
Trade Fair and over the July-September
1962 period he succeeded in almost
trebling Polish exports to Australia, push-
ing the rate up to about £750,000 p a.
During his three years here Polish wool-
buying almost doubled, rising to £9i m.
a year.
It is said that Mr Boniecki’s business
successes and personal acceptance in
Australia may have aroused bitter profes-
sional jealousies. Rumors are also rife
that he had to quit because his persistent
opposition to political interference in
trade activities had jeopardised his
career.
The very structure of Warsaw’s foreign
representation provides ample scope for
personal squabbles and inter-depart-
mental rivalries. Although formally at-
tached to Polish diplomatic missions
abroad, the commercial sections are in
fact autonomous bodies responsible to
the Ministry of Foreign Trade and not
to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Foreign trade officials, although they are
often titled consuls, counsellors or even
ministers are not professional diplomats
but representatives of a number of State-
owned export firms or career foreign
trade officials. Mr Boniecki’s Commercial
Division at Bellevue Hill was virtually
independent of the Consulate-General at
Point Piper and worked for a different
boss.
"IV/Tr Boniecki, who said he was not a
member of the PZPR (Communist
Party), seems to be one of those who
had benefited by Mr Gomulka’s de-
Stalinisation in the early post-1956
period. Before that his wartime member-
ship of the “Armia Krajowa” (Polish
Home Army), for many years frowned
upon by the Communists, and lack of
strings seemed to have frustrated his
career in Metalexport which he joined
in 1949. Despite good work and his law
degree gained in 1952 by part-time study
at Warsaw University he was never sent
abroad before 1956. After Poland’s
“Spring in October” he had visited Hol-
land, Denmark, Italy, Austria, Yugo-
slavia, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, India
and Egypt as a Metalexport man. He
never became a professional diplomat
and did not expect to get a long-term
foreign posting for quite some time after
returning home. But his sudden recall
soon after his return from home leave to
Warsaw last July seems to have con-
vinced him that his chances for a career
in his chosen field were grim. And the
political atmosphere is also becoming
thicker.
In Sydney, Mr J. Dunin-Karwicki,
editor of the influential “Wiadomosci
Polskie” (“Polish News") summed up
the Polish community’s attitude: “We
make a clear distinction between polit-
ical agencies of the Communist regime
and trade, sport and culture. Communists
in Poland are a very small minority,
even in the Communist Party, and we
must learn to accept people on their
merit and their behaviour. Having care-
fully observed Mr Boniecki's work we
feel it was useful both to Australia and
to the people of Poland. He had worked
hard at trade promotion and avoided
politics.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
NO PARLIAMENT
Hoist by its own gerrymander
npHE death last week of the South Aus-
tralian Minister for Lands, Sir
Cecil Hincks, has pointed up again the
curious position of the Playford Govern-
ment. The Government in the Lower
House—the Legislative Assembly—now
has only 18 members to the ALP
Opposition’s 19; and the Independent,
Mr Stott, of course, is Speaker, under
the arrangement transacted with Sir
Thomas Playford after the last general
election. So until there is a by-election
in Sir Cecil’s blue ribbon LCL seat of
Yorke Peninsula, the Government will
not be able to convene Parliament.
The real irony for the Playford
Government in its present electoral
position is that it is now suffering from
its own gerrymander: the electoral bias
towards the country voters is swinging
against the very people who have so
staunchly defended the principle of
more than one vote to one man in rural
areas. Worse still from the Liberals’
point of view, it is impossible to believe
that the Labor Party will introduce a
fair system when it regains the reins
of government after so many years in
the wilderness. Labor on the Liberal
precedent will gerrymander itself into a
record period of power and the
Liberals will have largely themselves to
blame.


Get your copy of
THE UNIVERSE OF TIME AND SPACE
Edited by S. T. BUTLER and H. MESSEL
The book of the Nuclear Research Foundation Summer School
lectures, January, 1963
Lectures by Profs. Butler, Messel, Lyttleton, Hanbury-Brown
and Gold
All Book Seilers
Published by SHAKESPEARE HEAD PRESS
Price 84/-
LITERATURE
BILL HARNEY'S FUNERAL
A leaf for all Australians
BILL HARNEY
“The rainbow road”
|”|n the last day of the old year, William
Edward Harney died in his sleep in
“The Ripples," a house he bought a year
ago along the bank of the beautiful
Mooloolah River, at Mooloolabah, on the
Queensland coast. All the previous day
he had kept his typewriter rattling away
on his book, the next but one in the sub-
stantial list of Harney titles. It is called
“The Shady Tree,” and it is all but
finished. Douglas Lockwood, his friend of
long standing, will add the final words
The title is significant. Bill chose it
because his aboriginal friends would use
the phrase to describe the spot where they
intended to sit down and spend the last
of their days; and “The Ripples” was
Bill’s chosen Shady Tree.
Bill was not ill, as the papers reported;
or if he was, it was typical of him that
no one else knew; complaints were not in
the currency of his speech. He was much
too young to die; at 68 he had lived fewer
years than his friends needed of him,
though those years were rich in experi-
ence. But over the last few months of his
life the same friends had seen a change
in him. He must have known that his
span was nearly closed.
Bill wrote me a letter once in which he
said, "I have ever travelled the Rainbow
Road.” I was excited by the concept; a
month later I was sitting with him in the
little straw house they built for him at
Ayers Rock, and said “You’ll have to
write a book with that title, Bill.” He
never did: and I think now that that
was because it was not in the programme
he had mapped out; as he mapped out all
his years and his movements. And he
didn't tell me that he was born on an
actual Rainbow Road, in Charters
Towers, he and his sister Beattie, the two
of them close together, as they remained
all their lives. That was another road,
hot and dry and dusty; he knew it well;
but the Rainbow Road he travelled
through his life was one of radiance, and
Bill’s journey on it illumined and bright-
ened the way for all the other sojourners.
It was Larry Boys in Darwin, as 1
remember, w'ho initiated for journalistic
purposes, the furphy that the aborigines
called Bill “Bilarni”; for Larry couldn’t
resist an Irish pun. It wasn’t true of
course, though it’s had a lot of repetition
in various versions. "They call me Rock-
Head,” Bill said when I asked him about
it. “Head's kind of square, see. And
craggy-like. Solid."
That head was a monument, and it is
sad that it has fallen. In actual fact, Bill
will live as long as there is an Australian;
he made the great heart of Australia beat,
and that is not rhetoric. For it was Bill
who lit his world for others with his
honesty and his understanding, it was
Bill who let them see it, even its ugliness
limned quite clearly with a brush of love
There are many things to be said about
Bill concerning his erudition, for he was
a great scholar, his talent, for he was a
considerable artist, his pertinacity and his
courage, his love of peace and acceptance
of war; but there ; s one thing to remem-
ber; that he was a man who loved all
human-kind. His work for the aborigines
was not because they differed from the
rest of us; it was because they were the
same, and Bill’s love, rising triumphant,
never let him condemn the weaknesses
he could recognise.
He was buried last Friday on a green
hill near the eucalypts he loved under a
hot summer sun, in a place where you
can stand and overlook the blue seas
where, too, Bill is at home. The Buderim
Mountain Cemetery where he lies is loud
with bird-song superimposed on the
choruses of cicadas; it is a beautiful place
for a man who appreciated beauty more
than he cared to admit. Bill chose it.
“And I dont want any of that concrete
over me,” he said. “No headstones.
Nothing like that. Let the grass grow
over me.” Some of his friends thought
Bill should lie at Alice Springs, or Dar-
win, somewhere in the Northern Terri-
tory; but Bill has a surer judgment. For
he belonged to all Australia, and the
Buderim Mountain is a green and bounti-
ful haven as typifies this country.
Though there was a goodly company
at the graveside, they were only a few of
the thousands of friends Bill had: a writer
or two, a poet, a representation of
Anzacs, his relatives, Vin White, to whom
he dedicated “North of ’23”, above all,
his sister Beattie who. when she was ten
years old and already working, saved up
the fare for her younger brother’s first job
out of her meagre earnings; in whose
eyes that unforgettable penetrant blue of
Bill's is duplicated, in whose heart that
same goodness.
Another writer, like Bill a Queens-
lander, and a great lover of his country,
asked me to drop a gum-leaf for him on
Bill’s grave. And after the dignified arid
gracious obsequies were done, after
Douglas Lockwood had spoken of his
friend, after the diggers had dropped
their Flanders poppies on the coffin that
seemed too small to contain Bill's mortal
trappings, I dropped a little spray of
perhaps a dozen young leaves, fresh and
green, from a tree beside the road, and it
lay amongst the red flowers. There was
a leaf of our friend, and one for the dark
and graceful people that Bill had loved
so well, and one for those who loved
him through his books and his talks,
some for the children how Bill loved
children! a leaf for every good and
decent Australian, for every single one.
Bill was a battler all his life and never
cared for money but the story of his last
years recorded success. He left a house,
cash, chattels; but his greatest legacy
was his capacity for love, his integrity,
his cheerfulness, his clear and vivid pre-
sentation and acceptance of his world,
his balance, his love of country, his kind-
ness and his joys and a zest for living.
Everyone whose life touched Bill's is his
beneficiary. It is a gift of great price.
OLAF RUHEN


I xfidfcjjfc i
« * A £5l ATI
« mkkt
;!*if»i*cc itii
The vines we tend at
Coonawarra Estate have
amongst their number a
proportion of the precious
Cabernet Sauvignon some
of which is vintaged
separately and bottled as:
“COONAWARRA
ESTATE
CABERNET”
The discriminating diner
would be well advised to
seek it out it is a rare
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CLARET
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. Wynn <& Co. Pty. Ltd. cmw
Around Melbourne
HENRY BOLTE'S BRILLIANT DUCK
lITe are immensely proud of our
Mr Henry Bolte. Our neighboring
colonies of New South Wales and
South Australia have never given him
the sympathy that was his due, but
after his performance at the Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground I am sure
they will see him in a different light.
Originally the celebration of the
Centenary of International Cricket
was to be a vast affair. There was to
have been a great parade through the
streets of period vehicles with the
teams arriving at the ground in Cobb
and Co. coaches. There was talk even
of a balloon ascent as in 1862.
All this did not win great enthu-
siasm from the Board of Control. Sir
Donald did not want anything to
detract from the solemn progress of a
Test. However there was the replay of
the original match. Early the Mel-
bourne Cricket Club announced that
Harold Larwood would lead the All
England Eleven and Bill Ponsford
would lead the Melbourne and
Districts Eighteen. The prospect of
Larwood bowling under-arm was
something for all to look forward to.
However, Larwood turned down the
invitation. He could not get away
from his mixed business shop in Syd-
ney, and Frank Tyson took his place.
Then at the last moment Bill Ponsford
pulled out also.
The position was desperate, only
three days to go. Who could possibly
take Ponsford’s place? Then they had
this brilliant idea, somebody who was
not a bit retiring Mr Henry Bolte,
our Premier.
Henry had to play George Mar-
shall, the publican of the Cricketer’s
Arms and the Melbourne skipper. He
entered into the game with a gusto
that was almost above and beyond
the call of duty. He wore the buff-
colored shirt with huge red spots,
white trousers tucked into puce socks,
black shoes and with his spotted shirt
he committed the sin of wearing a
vividly striped tie. He wore grey
mutton - chop whiskers without a
moustache. “Moustaches interfere
with drinking”. Then on the middle of
his back, incredibly, he had a proper
driver's L plate fixed with safety pins.
Mr “George Marshall” Bolte was sup-
posed to go out for a duck but he
turned his blob into a star perfor-
mance.
When he made a fine stroke he re-
frained from running. Two of the
finer strokes were overhead smashes
through the covers to lofted under-
arms from Jack Iverson. The nature
of his final dismissal is unclear but
there was a strange altercation with
Mr Bolte hitting the ball soccer
fashion all around the arena and
finally running off.
Beer was served constantly to
players and spectators during the
match. Admittedly champagne was
provided at the finish but we old
hands felt the beer was a disappoint-
ment. Originally champagne was pro-
vided at all cricket matches as a
cricketer’s right and the Melbourne
Cricket Club only introduced beer as
an economy measure in 1874.
After all, champagne in 1862 was
only four shillings a bottle.
T'he Second Test match went on its
A majestic course over five days.
There were no cricket performances
that one is likely to remember in five
years’ time and the match never quite
reached the brilliant level of the inter-
national replay.
I think that most of all I will re-
member the cricketers’ wives. We
don’t normally get the wives of tour-
ing cricketers at Test matches. Mrs
Dexter and Mrs Sheppard sat in the
VCA enclosure of the Grey-Smith
Stand, that section reserved for VIP
ladies. Mrs Sheppard had her nine-
months-old baby Jenny. When Aus-
tralia was all out in the first innings
Mrs Sheppard decided that here was
a chance in the break between innings
to feed Jenny. Then with Jenny pro-
perly fed she could return to watch
her husband perform another fine
innings. She was away only eight or
nine minutes. Oh, alas, she did not
see the Reverend David play one
stroke. He was already back in the
pavilion dismissed by Davidson’s
fourth ball.
It was interesting to note that the
cricketing husbands, Dexter and
Sheppard, both performed with dis-
tinction. This could be a strong argu-
ment for the other cricketers and no
doubt for the next series the VCA
box will be packed out with cricketing
wives and babies.
Financially the Test match gave
immense satisfaction with a record
take at the gate of £51,018/8/- plus
£17,000 from reserved seat sales. Also
there was a record take of rubbish.
During the five days the MCC had to
cart away 220 truck loads of rubbish
at £2/10/- a load. The increase was
due to more cans. In the past there
were only beer cans, but all advocates
of temperance will be pleased to hear
that the soft drink bottle is out at the
MCG and now the cleaners pick up
as many soft drink cans as beer cans.
-BATMAN


THE NARRABRI STAR GAZERS
And the Men who Find the Money
TIME, SPACE AND THE UNIVERSE
By EDWARD P. NEY and OSCAR A. GUTH
F'.ve miles west of Narrabri (NSW)
on the Wee Waa road is a sign-
post pointing south to Bald Hill.
A driver taking the Bald Hill turning
(if he were able to look up between
bumps in the road) might notice a large
garage to his right.
The garage looks somewhat out of
place and of strange construction for
this country environment; its size would
perhaps not be appreciated unless one
noticed that it dwarfs a small brick
building to which it seems to be attached
by two large cables.
At a white mailbox, whose post has
been bent by the collision of a car
careening on the gravel road, is the
entrance to the property of Peter Miller.
A narrow graded road, affectionately
called “The Miller Highway” by the
scientists who inhabit part of Peter’s
property, leads through a paddock
patrolled by an emu family to a locked
gate and a sign announcing: Narrabri
Observatory of the Chatterton As-
tronomy Department of the School of
Physics, University of Sydney.
Within the fence a unique astro-
nomical experiment is being carried out.
A circular 18-foot gauge railway
track, 600 feet in diameter, disappears
into the garage under roller doors 50
feet high, and at the centre of the track
is a control building to which electrical
signals are brought along two cables,
which enter the garage through slits in
the wall.
In the daytime, the garage doors are
closed to protect the sensitive equipment
from sun, wind -and rain, but at night
one may often see two rail cars emerge
from the garage, move around the track
and point two enormous telescopes to-
ward various bright stars in the sky.
The telescopes have an effective
aperture of about 300 inches, and are
therefore 50 per cent larger than the
famous 200-inch telescope at Mount
Palomar in California. However, instead
Professor Edward Purdy Ney,
Professor of Physics at the University
of Minnesota, USA, is spending a
study year at the School of Physics of
Sydney University’, mainly because
of his interest in the School's stellar
intensity interferometer which is now
being completed at Narrabri, NSW,
under the supervision of its inventor,
Professor R. Hanbury Brown, of Man-
chester University in England.
Oscar A. Guth is Executive Assis-
tant in the School of Physics, Sydney
University.
of being constructed as a single mirror,
each of the two telescopes is made of a
mosaic of 252 individual hexagonal
mirrors, mounted on a large parabola
resembling the antenna of a radio tele-
scope.
The device is called an “intensity inter-
ferometer” and its purpose is to measure
the angular diameter of bright stars.
The distance to many stars is known
from measurements of what astronomers
call the parallax, and it will be possible,
with the knowledge of the angular
diameter, to determine the actual size of
about 200 stars visible from the
southern hemisphere.
The resemblance ot these optical tele-
scopes to the antennae of radio tele-
scopes is accidental, but is symbolic of
the origin of the idea for the instrument.
The interferometer is an offspring of the
infant science of radio astronomy and
it is appropriate that it be built in Aus-
tralia, for Australian scientists are
recognised throughout the world as
being at the forefront in the field of
radio astronomy.
The science of radio astronomy began
in 1932 with the discovery by Karl
Jansky, of the Bell Telephone Labora-
tories in America, of radio signals from
beyond the sun. Initially very few
scientists worked in the field and it is
significant that it was an amateur, Grote
Reber, of Wheaton, 111., with a home-
made parabola in his backyard, who dis-
covered that the sky was literally full
of “radio stars,” many of which seemed
unconnected with bright visual objects.
As the observations proceeded it be-
came clear that most of the strongest
radio sources were associated with
strange nebulosities. For example, one
of the most exciting radio sources is the
“Crab Nebula,” the remains of a super-
nova which was observed to explode on
July 11, 1054 A.D., and recorded by
Chinese astronomers. This nebula is
now known to seethe with magnetic
fields through which move high-energy
particles, which in their motion emit
the radio waves detected by large radio
telescopes.
It is an engineering triumph that these
weak signals can.-be detected, because it
has been estimated that the total energy-
(excluding the sun’s energy) that has


fallen on radio telescopes since the
beginning of radio astronomy is only
one erg—one erg being much less than
the energy expended in flicking away a
cigarette butt.
In the early 1950 s the measurement
of the sizes of radio sources was one of
the paramount problems in radio
astronomy. Bolton and Stanley of
CSIRO, working with a radio inter-
ferometer, had shown that the intense
source in Cygnus had a diameter of less
than eight minutes of arc. It was
important to develop equipment to
measure smaller diameters to find out
whether tiny “radio stars” exist. In 1952
we did not know whether our own
galaxy emitted radio waves or whether
the “background radiation” observed in
all directions came from hundreds of
unresolved radio stars.
It was in the search for a device to
measure smaller diameters of radio
stars that the intensity interferometer
was born. It was invented by R. Han-
bury Brown at Jodrell Bank and was
successfully used in the measurement
of the diameters of several important
radio sources. The diameters of several
others were first measured about the
same time by Australian Dr B. Y. Mills,
the inventor of a radio telescope named
after him the Mills’ Cross. The
source in Cygnus was measured by both
groups, and they agreed on its size as
being about one minute of arc.
The Australian workers had made
their measurements with a Michelson
interferometer (well known in optics)
and the agreement of the measurements
on Cygnus gave confidence in the basic
soundness of the intensity inter-
ferometer, which worked on a newly
applied principle.
“Who was right?”
TV> understand the difference between
the intensity interferometer and the
Michelson instrument we must outline
briefly the principle of an inter-
ferometer.
Electromagnetic waves, either radio
or light, represent in their transmission
a wavelike phenomena. It is funda-
mental to waves that they may “inter-
fere,” leading to enhanced maxima and
minima in the wave pattern.
In the Michelson interferometer light
is gathered at twrn or more points along
the wave and caused to produce a
stationary interference pattern. In this
application both the intensity (roughly
speaking, the brightness) and the phase
(the relative arrival time) are used to-
gether. In the intensity interferometer
only the variations in the intensity are
compared to determine the nature of the
interference.
In the Narrabri instrument, the two
large mirrors gather light from the same
star, and by means of an electronic
instrument called a correlator determine
to what extent the light collected by one
mirror is fluctuating in the same way as
the light striking the other mirror.
If the light fluctuates the same way in
both mirrors, the correlation is said to
be 100 per cent; and if the fluctuations
are unrelated the correlation is zero. If
the correlation is measured as a function
of the distance between the mirrors one
can determine the angular size of the
star.
After the successful application of the
new interferometer to the measurement
of radio stars, Hanbury Brown and
Twiss suggested that the same principle
could be applied to the measurement of
the diameters of stars using visible light.
This started a lively controversy with a
group of physicists led by Janossy in
Hungary contending that the optical
application violated the fundamental
principles of quantum mechanics.
To test the idea in the optical case
laboratory experiments were under-
taken by Hanbury Brown and Twiss and
by members of the other school of
thought. In January, 1957, Hanbury
Brown reported the positive results of
his experiment. In September of the
same year, Canadian workers published
completely opposite conclusions!
Which group was right? The answer
came quickly. In December, 1957, Han-
bury Brown and Twiss produced an
analysis of their own experiments and
the experiments of the Canadians and
Hungarians, and showed that the
methods used by the latter groups were
so insensitive that in one case it would
have taken a billion years to detect the
effect.
In the same month the American
physicist E. M. Purcell reconciled the
positive result with quantum mechanics,
and in pointing out the smallness of the
expected laboratory result stated “With-
out a substantial increase in the latter
quantity (bandwidth), counting periods
of the order of years would be needed
to demonstrate the effect with the appa-
ratus of Brannon and Ferguson (the
Canadian workers). This only adds
lustre to the notable achievement of
Brown and Twiss.”
It only remained to demonstrate the
effect with a star. Concurrently with the
laboratory experiments Hanbury Brown
was attempting an optical measurement
on Sirius with two searchlight mirrors
at Jodrell Bank. Sirius, the brightest
star in the sky, was one of the very few
that could be attempted with mirrors of
available dimensions. The measurement
was a success and led to the first angular
diameter of a star determined with the
intensity interferometer.
This is the scientific history of the
intensity interferometer at Narrabri.
The actual construction on the site
was started about 18 months ago, and
the last mechanical problems are now
being solved by the engineers and
astronomers working to align the equip-
ment. We may hope that sometime in
1963 new astronomical facts will be
bouncing down the Wee Waa road to
the Narrabri Post Office.
Raising money
Out there is also another side to the
story of a major scientific research
undertaking such as the Narrabri inter-
ferometer finance. The instrument to
date has already cost £285,000, and its
running cost will be a permanent major
item in the annual expenditure of
Sydney University’s School of Physics.
And the Narrabri interferometer is
only one of the two main projects of
the School’s Chatterton Astronomy De-
partment; the other the Mills’ Cross
radio telescope now being built at Cap-
tains Flat, near Canberra will cost
close to half a million pounds! And the
school has five departments.
Where is all this money coming from
in a country where the Government
channels research funds almost ex-
clusively into its own research organisa-
tions such as the CSIRO? How can a
university department such as the Sydney
School of Physics afford to pour millions
into research projects and why is this
necessary?
Let us look at the last question first;
there is no doubt that Australia, in order
to survive as a free and prosperous
democracy, must have more and better
trained scientists, technologists and
teachers, and must prevent losing its
best brains to overseas posts which, in
the past, have often had so much more
to offer. We realise this today when
something has already been done about
it, but 12 years ago this then revolution-
ary idea was left to a young Canadian
physicist who had come here to take up
a post with the University of Adelaide.
Harry Messel brought to Australia his
beard, his family and his enthusiasm
nothing extraordinary in that but he
also brought with him some big ideas
and the loudest voice ever heard in Aus-
tralia’s field of education.
Within a year The Voice was heard
and Sydney University appointed him to
its Chair of Physics. That was all the
brand new 30-year-old professor had
been waiting for. Now he could really
shout. And shout he did; always the
same theme: “Australian science need
not always follow it can also lead.
Our best young brains must be trained in
Australia, for Australia. Only then can
we claim status as a major nation in the
Free World.”
Harry Messel had big plans for his
School of Physics, and Vice-Chancellor


Stephen Roberts of Sydney University
agreed that they were good plans —if
perhaps too ambitious; but where was all
the money to come from for their
implementation?
Yet, within scarcely a year, Messel
partially solved the problem with the
establishment of the Nuclear Research
Foundation within the University of
Sydney. And at the inauguration meet-
ing of the Foundation on March 12,
1954, Professor Roberts paid tribute to
the energetic Canadian.
“It was his idea,” said the Vice
Chancellor, “that industry and the Uni-
versity should combine within a research
foundation with great mutual benefit.
Indeed, never before has the University
needed so much the active co-operation
of the community it serves, and never
before has the community needed so
much the services of the University . . .
in this atomic age.”
Australian industry and individual
philanthropists rallied to the call of
science. It was a new call, for the
Nuclear Research Foundation was the
first such organisation in the British
Commonwealth. But soon the Founda-
tion had on its membership list almost
every leading industrial enterprise, trade
unions, individuals and governmental
and semi-governmental bodies.
Inescapable
XTew departments sprang up within the
School, established by special dona-
tions. The Daily Telegraph Theoretical
Department was created with a gift of
£50,000 from Consolidated Press Ltd,
whose chairman, Sir Frank Packer, is
the present chairman of the Foundation;
the Falkiner Nuclear (Research) De-
partment was set up with £50,000 from
the late G. B. S. Falkiner; the Basser
Computing Department was named
after its initial £IOO,OOO benefactor,
Sir Adolph Basser; the Chatterton As-
tronomy Department was named after
Stan Chatterton, who gave £50,000
towards its establishment; and the
School’s newest department, the Wills
Plasma Physics Department was founded
with a £50,000 gift from W. D. & H. O.
Wills (Aust.) Ltd.
Today all these departments have
individual professorial heads, working
under Professor Messel as Head of the
School and Director of the Foundation.
The results were inescapable. Nine
years ago. when the Foundation was
established, the post-graduate school in
physics in the University of Sydney was
practically non-existent. The number of
students coming forward for degrees in
physics was small, and the best of these
students who were interested in post-
graduate work invariably left for over-
seas.
However, the co-operation between
the University and the Foundation in
creating in the School of Physics a post-
graduate group of scientists of world
repute to work in specially chosen fields
has not only largely stopped the drift of
talented young Australians overseas, but
has also attracted many brilliant overseas
scientists to Australia and has brought
many top Australians back from abroad.
Today the School is recognised as one
of the world’s major academic research
centres, with a present enrolment of
2750 under-graduates and 38 post-
graduate students studying for their
Master’s or Doctor’s degrees.
But Messel’s Australian “self-help”
also had another effect, particularly in
the United States and Britain, which
both have what Australia still lacks
governmental bodies for the distribution
of scientific research funds.
Recognising the great efforts of the
Nuclear Research Foundation but real-
ising that much more was needed for
the type of research that can be carried
out in Australia, overseas sources
approached by Messel have made
generous grants to the Foundation in
recent years.
Thus, Britain’s Department of Scien-
tific and Industrial Research has con-
tributed £114,000 towards the Narrabri
interferometer, and the Foundation has
so far invested some £120,000 in the
project whose final establishment will
cost about £285,000. And negotiations
are now in progress in the United States
for the odd £50,000 still needed, plus
funds for the running cost of the instru-
ment.
Also, the US National Science
Foundation is contributing three-
quarters of a million dollars t£A400,000)
towards the Chatterton Astronomy De-
partment’s second project, the Mills’
Cross radio-telescope whose two one-
mile-long antennae arms will soon catch
signals from more distant regions of the
universe than man has ever probed
before.
The School’s Basser Computing De-
partment will this year instal a new
£400,000 English Electric KDF9 elec-
tronic computer to supplement its well-
known Silliac. The new computer—the
largest in any Australian university is
being bought with the help of an initial
gift of a quarter of a million dollars
(£A140,000) from a Texan benefactor
and his wife, Dr and Mrs Cecil H.
Green, with the help of the Foundation
itself, with the help of the manufacturing
company, and with some £lOO,OOO
still urgently needed.
But the Foundation, for which Harry
Messel has raised more than £4,000,000
in cash and kind in Australia and abroad
in the past nine years, is not devoting
all its energy to the development of
research in the School of Physics alone.
Over the years the Foundation has done
some of its most valuable work in the
field of secondary education, the most
fertile ground for the inspiration of Aus-
tralia’s scientists and technologists of
the future.
Australia’s leading role
np H is week there began in the School of
Physics the Foundation’s sixth annual
Summer Science School and the first one
for high-school students from all States
of the Commonwealth. Since 1958 the
Foundation has spent more than
£lOO,OOO on these summer science
schools, for which it brings from ail
over the world science leaders in
specialised fields to lecture in Sydney for
a fortnight.
The first four annual summer schools
were held for high-school teachers, to
bring them up to date on the latest
trends in science.
Last year the Foundation held its first
school for 150 leading NSW students in
their pre-leaving year to give them a
first glimpse of university life.
This experiment was so successful
that the current summer school has been
extended to include interstate and New
Zealand students, as well as a new
experiment; in past years summer
schools have been televised by Channel
9 and screened in all Australian capital
cities; surprisingly science proved to be
very popular with viewers from all
sections of the community except that
some complained about “inopportune”
screening times.
This week Sydney’s Channel 9 has
begun to open its station at 7 a.m. to
afford all viewers the opportunity of
watching and listening to such eminent
scientist as Professor Herman Bcndi, of
London University, and Professor
Thomas Gold, of Cornell University, in
the United States, two of the authors of
the famous “steady state” theory of
the universe; Professor Julius Sumner
Miller, of California, one of the greatest
physics lecture demonstrators in the
world, and other lecturers on the cur-
rent school’s general theme, “The Uni-
verse of Time and Space”.
It is true, of course, that we know
relatively little about the vast reaches of
the universe in which our own earth is
probably less significant than a speck of
dust in the Sahara.
But it is also true that through projects
like the summer school, the Narrabri
interferometer, plasma physics research,
cosmic ray research, to name but a few
of the School of Physics’ efforts spon-
sored by Sydney University’s Nuclear
Research Foundation, Australia has won
for itself a leading place in the world of
science.


OUT AND ABOUT
ANDREA; FREE FROM BUNIONS,
HUSBANDS AND REGRETS
"My dear child, it I'd lived on my wits I'd own diamonds"
By JAN SMITH
At 10 o’clock Andrea was in the
bath so I had to let myself in the
back door of her sixth-floor flat
at Macleay Regis in King’s Cross,
Sydney. Everything was very nice a
modern kitchen into a living room of
bleached druggets, marine blue walls
hung with matching Cassabs, rose petals
in brandy balloons and everywhere a
photograph. Cecil B. de Mille, the
French Pretender, Manuel of Portugal
Ashtrays from the four corners of the
world were strewn about but no
matches. (She doesn’t smoke.) Maybe
the kitchen . . . but Andrea was calling.
“Won’t be a minute. I know there’s
some people who spend hours getting
ready for the Press, but not me.”
There was just time for a quick look
at the books —Debrett was prominent—
before Andrea appeared immaculately
coiffured at 10 a.m. with a floral silk
dressing gown clutched about her.
“Eve lived here on and off for 15
years,” Andrea told me, as she made the
coffee. People kept giving her food, she
said, especially biscuits, because they
imagined that living alone she might not
take proper care of herself. This was
ridiculous, she added, because she’d
always been a very good cook she
learnt in America—although there was
no time for it now.
As journalist extraordinary and Queen
Mother of Sydney radio there was
always a luncheon, a party, or some-
where to take care of empty corners.
And people were always sending flowers,
“bunches three feet long, my dear. God
knows where they come from,” writing
agony letters and telling her to do un-
mentionable things. “They either love me
or hate me. I’m a strong personality.”
Being a strong personality, of course,
has its moments of glory. Like the morn-
ing tete-a-tete session with Tom Jacobs
on radio station 2UE, now in its fourth
year, in which she dispenses a mixture
of worldly cynicism and horse sense that
sends housewives into ladylike frissons,
moral indignation or unadulterated
rapture.
In the fifties there was a column in the
“Daily Mirror,” then a seat on an ABC
panel show called “Find The Link,” but
now, with only five hours a week . . ,
“My dear child,” Andrea cried. “For
a start I’m everlastingly opening and
shutting things all over the countryside,
and then there’s fashion shows to com-
pere I even did one for dog’s wear
the other day . . . and "'princesses, why,
I’m just about a professional fairy god-
mother. What else, indeed!
“And don’t you believe it when people
talk about her £5OOO a year. I’m not a
payola girl and I never accept money
for charity things. I get presents, cer-
tainly”—one of the latest was a selection
of stainless steel saucepans “but I
don’t abuse these favors like some people
do.”
Sometimes she thought it strange that
all this lionising should come at her time
of life considering all the really exciting
things she’d done before, such as jumping
from windows at Universal City film
studios for 25 dollars a day—playing the
robber chief’s wife in “The Sheik”
“I was supposed to stab Agnes Ayres
with the biggest carving knife you’ve
ever seen” and assisting the assistant
director of “The Ten Commandments.”
She was writing her life story “it’l)
take two volumes of course”—expecting
a friend from America and planning to
see her doctor, but there was time for
anything I cared to ask. “But not my age.
In this business it's a fatal mistake.
They’d start wanting to pension me off.”
Not that Andrea looks ready for the
old ladies’ home, but when the greater
part of your life sounds like a chapter
from Scott Fitzgerald you can’t be any
chicken.
So on an unspecified date Andrea was
born Dorothy Gordon outside Sydney
Hospital—“My mother was staying in
a flat just — was returned to
the family’s country home at Narrabri,
sent to Ascham and SCEGGS, and finally
packed off to England for a top-dressing
of elocution, art and other social accom-
plishments befitting a well-brought-up
young lady.
“All my family what’s left of them
think I’m quite insane, of course,
working with all these peculiar people,
but tha\pk God all that snobbishness was
knocked out of me years ago.”
Back from London, she found Sydney
impossibly parochial, so after a season
with J. C. Williamson’s understudying
the first Mrs Ronald Colman, she went
to Hollywood.
Hollywood in the silent era was, ac-
cording to Andrea, a place where any-
thing could happen. “I was launched by
Snowy Baker-—he was a famous athlete,
but ages before your time and in
those days Hollywood people thought all
Australians were terribly sporty,” she
said. “So Adela Rogers St John bundled
me into some ghastly black bloomers and
showed me how to hold a club and next
thing I was all over the front of the


‘Los Angeles Times’ as a famous Aus-
tralian golfer.
“Of course I’d never played golf in
my life (presumably the finishing school
slipped here) and for ages afterwards
people kept challenging me to rounds or
matches or w hatever it is. I had to invent
dentists’ appointments to keep them off
until it all died down.”
Freelance stunt-woman
T>ut it was an ill w'ind that blew no
harm because she was soon doing
nicely as a freelance stunt-woman, jump-
ing off burning buildings, falling into
flooded rivers, and generally taking prat-
falls while her American relatives—“all
good moneyed families” —clung to the
famous-golfer illusion.
She later joined Paramount as a stock
actress “there were half a dozen of
us who played maids and governesses”
but the climax of her film career
came when she w'as asked to play Queen
Mary. “Naturally I said, oh, yes, Bloody
Mary, and he said, no, Queen Mary
for high-life shots in English movies, my
dear so they got me a wig and a
toque and a bolster and sat me up in a
landau and away we w^ent.
“But I must have looked convincing
because later when I met Queen Mary
she peered at me through her lorgnette
and said my eyes were the wrong color
but I had their long upper lip. There
was a staff King George too, but w'hat
happened to him goodness knows.”
One way and another there have been
so many men in her life she couldn’t
possibly remember what happened to half
of them. “Actually, my child, in some
cases I’d rather not. Especially my tw'O
husbands. I always was a bum picker. I
suppose it’s just because they were hand-
some.” Were they actors? No, just
Americans.
“When 1 look at men now oh, not
the way some women of my age look at
them. Mr Universe could come in here
right now and walk up and dowm in the
raw and I wouldn’t even notice him
I simply cannot imagine how I could
ever have been romantically involved
with the creatures.”
The most important and lasting acqui-
sition during this time was the name
Andrea. There was a numerology craze
at the time, centred around one Evange-
line Adams, “so I paid my 25 dollars
and that’s what I got. But I never used
it until I started writing.”
Whatever Hollywood may have done
to Andrea in the way of romantic disil-
lusionment, it mercifully has not ruined
her voice, which remains pleasantly con-
tralto, forthright, and peppered with
American straight-from-the-shoulderisms.
She’s extremely well-preserved, too,
“although if I do more TV work I’ll
be getting rid of this,” clutching a minor
sag below the chin.
But her memories of Hollywood are
straight from Schulberg. Zazu Pitts, Paul
Byrne, Irving Thalberg, Norma Shearer,
the beautiful and the damned who
worked, loved and drank themselves to
death were all known to her. She was
a guest at San Simeon “the taps were
solid gold, my dear. Nothing as vulgar
as gilt.”
Hollywood in those days was more of
a big happy family. “We girls at the
Hollywood Studio Club got invited to all
the big deals.” Why did she leave? She
didn’t want to, in fact she was heart-
broken, but she had to be rid of husband
No. 2 somehow'. But she escaped with
something wrnrse amoebic dysentery
caught on location in Mexico, which had
her in and out of hospital for years.
Sydney was still impossible, so it was
off to Paris in answer.to a proposal from
a wealthy impresario. “I arrived, penni-
less, at the hotel where he was to meet
me, and found the valet de chambre
had put his pyjamas exactly the color
of that chair you're sitting on on my
bed. So I tiptoed through the connecting
door and put them on his bed. After
six months he gave up trying and I
escaped to my family.” But in the inte-
rim they lunched at plus eateries like the
Savoy Grill, meeting people like Mar-
coni “he had a glass eye” Diaghi-
leff, and Sacha Guitry.
Living on my wits
course > I never had a shilling to
my name in those days, but it w'as
marvellous fun.” It certainly sounded
like it. “Living on my wits? Good
heavens, child. If I’d done that I’d have
diamonds today. No. It was good back-
ground that did it. And knowing the
right people.” She was, however, saved
from complete penury by supplying
fashion stories and reports on causes
celebres like the Hauptmann trial to As-
sociated News back in Australia, under
the ;tom de plume of Andrea.
Life continued in a gay whirl of hos-
pitals and clinics, where she enjoyed
poor health with the crowmed and would-
be crowmed heads of Europe, country
estate weekends and jaunts on the Conti-
nent. One day she wrote a story about
a bullfight and sent it to the “Sydney
Sun,” which gave it VIP treatment with
color illustrations and a middle page
spread. She realised, with a shock, that
she was famous in her own country.
Going round for the second time, with
Andrea ensconced in her favorite corner
at the Pickwick Club with a midday
Scotch “brandy gives you cirrhosis
and gin sends me thataw'ay”— we took
another look at Fitzgerald-land.
Feeling the call of home, she lined up
a free trip to Australia with a friend at
KLM. At the outbreak of war in 1939,
she was on another free trip back to
Europe when Dutch officials off-loaded
her at Singapore. People lent her money,
pulled strings and got her out via Ba-
tavia. “I was sitting next to a fat old
Dutchman in striped pyjamas, so full of
ristafel he belched all over me, and read-
ing Dutch newspapers over his shoulder.
All I understood was Krieg in 80 point
bold.”
But she was soon off again to the Far
East, as a war commentator for As-
sociated News, where Japan was testing
her military strength in preparation for
Pearl Harbor. She met dignitaries,. offi-
cials, students, workers, and drunken re-
porters. It was a drunken reporter, she
says, who saved her from death in Hong
Kong on Pearl Harbor Day. “The plane
was delayed because he had to be routed
out of bed at his hotel, and while we
were all at the airport cursing him, our
plane went up in flames from a bomb.
We hid in culverts all morning, waiting
for the raids to stop.”
The alternative to incineration, how-
ever, was internment. Laid low with
dysentery at Japanese headquarters, she
waited for her fate to be decided. “There
were all these soldiers, disguised as
garden plots with twigs in their hair,
wandering past W'ith knives and looking
at me.” She was packed off with 3800
British and Europeans to a camp on the
outskirts of Hong Kong, where the food
was awfful and the treatment bad to
middling. The dysentery continued long
enough to spare her from the initial
rapings, and on her recovery she was
appointed to the camp committee.
She produced plays like “Private
Lives,” with necessary adaptations for
the circumstances, to which the Japanese
officers came in full regalia w'ith their
mistresses for opening nights. “But after
two years they realised we enjoyed
acting, so they took out all the lights.”
She escaped, during the post-Hiroshima
days of disintegration, a six-stone near
wreck, saved, she believes, by the 69-day
orange juice and water fast she’d under-
gone back at a nature cure centre in
England.
Scottish constitution
“Tt must have toughened up whatever
needed fortifying, because otherwise
I’d never have come through alive.” Or
else it was her good Scottish constitution.
There were fishheads rescued in appal-
ling circumstances from garbage cans,
days when latrines had to be cleaned
without water, and the ever-recurring
dysentery.
A lobster arrived on a bed of lettuce
and Sydney 1962 closed in. “I can’t bear
to think about it. my dear,” said Andrea,
helping herself with small, aristocratic
hands. “I actually heard a lobster scream
once, you know ... so when that sweet
little boy at Watson’s Bay got up the
petition with posters and everything Tom
Jacobs and I naturally talked about it'onf


the session. So I made a little joke and
so did Tom and next thing came all these
letters. I’m a monster, a barbarian,
which isn’t true at all because there isn’t
a quadruped in town cats, dogs, even
budgies who doesn’t love me at first
sight.
“I’m always ringing up about stray
dogs, too, but unless you actually sit in
the gutter with them, they’re gone by the
time the truck comes.”
She is practical about human life, pos-
sibly brutal from the sentimentalist
standpoint, but basically kind. “I’ve got
more Catholic friends than you could
shake a stick at, but I cannot see the
sense in keeping these thalidomide babies
alive. It’s against the will of God. And
against natural law, too. They’ll grow up
with normal feelings and desires
imagine the sexual frustration they’d feel
and then what? We argue for hours
but I’ll never believe it’s right.”
One of her grandfathers was a top
police official in New South Wales and
she is a firm believer in discipline. “I’m
not entirely against capital punishment,
but I really think birching should be
revived. Not with knots or studs or any-
thing, but I got paddled on the behind
with a hairbrush often enough as a child
and you can't tell me it’s done me any
harm. I always think that sort of disci-
pline made the British.”
What they are today? No, she said
quietly, what they were.
But parents are not without blame.
“They're out and about far too much
these days, golf, cocktail parties, bowls.
What about your husband? Is he a good
father?” Time would tell. Her own
parents were always at hand, respective
towers of strength, but today . . . well,
she knew little tots of five who let their
drunken parents in every night. “And
they’re society people, too.” How about
birching parents? Maybe it wouldn’t be a
bad idea.
Socially aspiring people she doesn’t
care for. Yes, one did get tired of lovely
homes and suspect table manners, but the
trouble was most of them were just plain
dreary. “They go abroad and give parties
at the Dorchester and who do they ask?
The same dull old crowd they knew back
here.”
She was planning a party herself in a
few weeks that would be anything but
caste-bound. “I’ve got dancers and
theatre people and journalists and every-
body coming, and if they don’t like it
it’s too darn bad.” It didn’t sound exactly
way out, but then with showbusiness and
Andrea, anything can happen. *
She adores Sellers, lovers Lehrer, and
worships Milligan although she doesn’t
always understand him. She loves theatre,
anything as long as it’s good, from
burlesque to Shakespeare,” but the less
television she sees the better, unless its
a documentary or a biography pro-
gramme. She has doubts about co-educa-
tion, based on her teacher brother’s dis-
coveries in Hollywood schools, is firmly
opposed to shotgun weddings and be-
lieves most juvenile sexual delinquency
is simply unwholesome curiosity.
Australian women are just too lethar-
gic for words, and they should try, with-
out sacrificing their femininity, to-do
something about their status very
smartly. She dislikes professional femi-
nists, civic untidiness, most sports except
yachting, petty bureaucracy and stiletto
heel shoes. “I’ve never had a bunion in
my life.”
Mr Olabisi Ajala, formerly of
Nigeria, seems surprised that any-
one should be more interested in
him than in his manuscript. The manu-
script is called “The Australian in Per-
spective” and begins:
“Admittedly, a few months in Aus-
tralia have not turned me into an autho-
rity on the way of life here. All the
same, I must admit that I have come to
form some deep-rooted and psychologi-
cally intriguing thoughts about the Aus-
tralian mentality, which has in itself be-
come an institution.
“I came to Australia, as to the 86
countries I have visited in the past five
years, in search of Man, his culture and
tradition, his achievements and short-
comings, not overlooking, of course, his
shame and glory. In Australia, one need
not search too far in order to come face
to face with many such contrasts, and
with mixed feelings of abhorrence and
condolence . . .”
Then Mr Ajala offers Australia a
“bright and promising future,” in spite
of the fact that the Australian is a “snob
and an ignoramus” with “little or no
humor in him” who “proudly and shame-
lessly displays ‘colonial mentality’.” So it
goes on. It is, of course, all pretty
familiar stuff. Stories such as these are
regularly brought into newspaper offices
by members of what might be called the
“quick look” school of journalism, who
leave their four-wheel drives or their
motor-scooters, covered with the dust
and flags of many nations, on half-hour
meters while they dash in with their
considered judgments on a continent.
Her clothes are tastefully unobtrusive,
her skin well-cosseted, her cheque book
in reasonable health. Dosing her coffee
with something from a little gold box,
there wasn’t much to distinguish her
from the other senior clientele of the
Pickwick Club. If she makes you feel
young a couple of dozen my-dear-
childs and two brandies can be a power-
ful tonic—it is young-fortunate, never
young-foolish. Possibly her as
Queen Mary had something to do with it,
but if you can reach the age of whatever-
it-is free from bunions, husbands, inhibi-
tions and regrets, a touch of ego is neither
here nor there.
BECAUSE MY
SKIN IS BLACK
A Nigerian abroad
By PATRICIA ROLFE
But Mr Ajala, sitting on the opposite
side of the desk, is different. His skin is
different. His eyes are hidden by very
dark glasses so that except for the hand-
some, white smile, his, face is mono-
chrome and entirely baffling. Although
Mr Ajala himself may not want to treat
his skin as his “gimmick” (and in the
highly competitive field of international
freelance journalism everyone has some
quick selling point) it inevitably becomes
so, in Australia if not in all of those 86
other countries. That is why Mr Ajala
is more interesting than what he writes.
In the few months that he has been
here Mr Ajala has become something
of a local identity. He is exuberant,
friendly, self-assured. He loves parties
and quite a remarkable variety of Syd-
ney people seem to have come across
him somewhere or other.
He has written pieces for local papers,
just missed arrest by Security at Mascot
airport when he photographed the Duke
of Edinburgh (he sent the picture to his
agent in New York and says it was
bought by 13 European newspapers and
by Associated Press). Recently he
married a schoolteacher from Lismore,
NSW, who was, he said, a “pen pal”
with whom he was exchanging letters
before he arrived in Australia.
Where did he come from and where
does he plan to go?
Mr Ajala said that after early educa-
tion in Nigeria he graduated from
Columbia University, New York, in
1956, majoring in psychology. He said


that he is at present working towards his
doctorate.
After graduation he persuaded the
University authorities, w 7 ho w'ere, he
said, prepared to grant him funds for
further study, that he could best con-
tinue his studies by travel. He went first
to Iran and Iraq for 18 months w'here,
he said, he did a survey of the culture
of these two countries. He said that his
master’s thesis on “The Psychological
Analysis of Human Personalities and
Culture” had been accepted by Columbia.
Mr Ajala said that two books of his
would be published this year by Hutchin-
son: in March “Cultures in Comfort”
and in June “Without Appointment.”
He writes for 35 newspapers in Asia
and Africa. He said he employed an agent
to handle photographs (he has five
cameras), but dealt with the editors of
his 35 papers himself. He said that he
has also done picture stories for “Life”
magazine on Israel and Afghanistan and
that he writes for the London “Observer.”
Mr Ajala’s plans now are to make a
trip around Australia and then to head
for South America.
He then proposes to return to Nigeria,
but only for about tw 7 o years. After two
years in his homeland he plans to return
to Spain, where he has already lived
for about six months. There he will, he
hopes, continue to write. “I will write
books about my travels,” he said. “I
don't believe in fiction.”
Mr Ajala said he would go to Spain
because it was the most tolerant country
he had visited. “There I am terribly ac-
cepted,” he said. “It is a Catholic country
and 1 am a pagan but no pne seems to
worry. Of course, I could live cheaper
in Nigeria, but I would rather live in
Spain.”
He does not see any role for himself
in Nigeria, and is immensely contemp-
tuous of those “who study somewhere
else for a few months and then go back
home and expect to get all the good
jobs.”
CARMEN McRAE:
THE LAST NOTE
"You could say my career has furthered my marriages"
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Preceded by kilted chorines pran-
cing to “Auld Lang Syne,” colored
singer Carmen Mcßae hit the pink
and blue spotlights at Sydney’s Chequers
Restaurant in a silver dress with huge
yellow 7 flowers, golden shoes and sugar-
cube sized diamonds; perched on a kind
of dentist's chair, she belted out half a
dozen numbers ranging from “I Concen-
trate on You” to Fannie Brice’s “My
Man,” which she accompanied with
strenuous wringings of a yellow silk
handkerchief. One of the most striking
features of her performance was the way
she w'ouid begin a song flatly, with an
almost insolently blase indifference, then
gradually work her way into the “feel”
of the lyrics, conveying bitterness for
“Guess Who I Saw Today” or laughing
ruthlessly for “Who’s Got The Last
Laugh Now.”
At an interview, she also begins flatly,
interrupting the conversation to talk to
her arranger, pouring Scotches on the
rocks, apparently bored by life in gen-
eral. Then, as time goes on, she responds
to certain questions with unexpected
vitality and intensity, finally sparking on
all cylinders in thoroughly watchable
fashion.
Strong and solid, her huge black eyes
fenced with a stockade of eyelash, Car-
men Mcßae has a humorous face which,
now hard, now soft, reminds one at
times of Lena Horne’s. Her hair (wig?)
frames a sharply cut brow, nose and
chin stamped with determination and
at times a hint of ruthlessness. Inten-
sely professional, Carmen Mcßae is one
of the most respected musicians in the
business; far removed from some of the
“commercial” singers we’ve had here
lately, she is a virtuoso who, though she
tends to deny it, obviously know's a great
deal about manipulating the voice.
Born and raised in New York, she
(incredibly) had no musical training, but
taught herself from the ground up,
beginning by learning piano and landing
a night-club job in Chicago in 1948,
with her first audition. “It was the Arch-
way Club,” she said. “I only knew eight
numbers—” she laughed. “Eight! You
see I hadn’t any reason to know any
more! A girl friend suggested I try and
get in there with my piano, qnd I did!”
She played the Archway for years,
then went back home to New York and
broke into the big time at the Blue Note
Club. “A man came in one night for a
drink just passing through and he
was very enthusiastic about me. He was
starting up a recording company he said,
and I did two singles for him ‘A
Foggy Day’ w 7 as one of them and
‘Autumn Nocturne’ the other on his
Stardust label.
“They both took off in a big way.
And several recording companies after
that wanted to get hold of me. Finally,
I signed with Decca the A and R man
there and I, we spoke the same language,
you know what I mean?”
Her biggest hit in records to date has
been “Take Five,” which she talked
Dave Brubeck into writing as a vocal
after his group had succeeded brilliantly
with it as an instrumental. She talked
with him about it on a plane Wednesday,
signed the contract Thursday. And
recorded it Friday? “Not quite that fast,”
she said. “It took off after a while and
now it’s sold, well, maybe 500,000 or
600,000 copies.”
Carmen Mcßae shook her head when
1 asked her if any of the big names in
show business had helped her or, come
to that, hindered her in what sounded
like an unusually smooth progress to the,
top. No, she hadn't known any “names”,
well until she reached the big time,
except for Billie Holiday, whom she
worshipped. Talking of Billie Holiday's
autobiography, she said that quite a lot
of it wasn't true (“1 know, because I was
there”). And she did feel that Billie
Holiday’s addiction to the drugs “the
stuff” which finally took her life was
atypical of show business people. Most
of those she knew', she insisted, kept
early hours and went easy on the liquor,,
And had it been difficult, career-wise,
to cope with marriage to two famous
musicians (drummer Kenny Clark and
Count Basie’s bass player Ike Isaacs)? At'
that, she roared with laughter: “Well,;
now that’s funny! It’s funny because you
see my first husband introduced me to
my second! After Kenny and I were
divorced we stayed good friends and one
night 1 went to see him and Ike was
there. Six months later, I met Ike again,
and he asked me, did I need a good
bass player? I said yes, and finally it got
through to him that I needed a good
husband too! So you could say that my
career had furthered my marriages, even
if my marriages didn’t exactly further
my career!”
Before I left, I asked her what had
been the greatest moment of her career
(“The Palladium, London that’s whatl
we all dream of, and I was top of the
bill there, just a piece back”) and ho"
she had developed her unusual technique
of beginning a number disinterestedly,;
then building up the emotion to a pea)
of excitement. At first, she thought i>
was quite unconscious, but I was frankly
incredulous, and then suddenly she
relaxed and decided to disclose her
secret. “It’s like when I go and buy a
new dress. The salesgirl never brings out
the prettiest dress first. She keeps bring
ing out better ones until you’ve bought
17.” She laughed again, clinking the ic«
in her glass. “It’s the last note that
counts, the last note they remember
You’ll come again?”


MIDDY'S MOUSTACHES


FORUM
OUR COMING DEPENDENCE
ON RED CHINA
Unless we stop subsidising the 50,000 prosperous wheat farmers
By E. J. DONATH
A USTR ALIA’S total wheat sales to Communist China, our biggest
customer since December, 1960, amount to over 190 million bushels,
of which about 45 million bushels were sold for cash, the balance on
terms, which includes an undisclosed percentage of interest. According
to the Australian Wheat Board “no difficulties have been experienced
in the term payments, all of them being meticulously met on the due
date.’ The total value of these sales amounts to nearly <£l34 m.—a
significant part of our export income. (In this connection, it might be
pertinent to recall that one of the mam reasons for the recent “credit
squeeze ’ was the decline in the Reserve Bank’s holdings of foreign
exchange.) Australia’s last credit sale with Communist China teas
announced late last year, and shipment for this sale is scheduled to
be completed by June, 1963. The preceding credit sale was contracted
in October 1962, and it includes about 20 million bushels of the new crop
currently being harvested.
There is no doubt that the Common-
wealth Government is in favor of these
credit sales as it could have easily pre-
vented them; the Wheat Industry
Stabilisation Act 1954-58, Section 13,
states that “the Minister may give
directions to the Board concerning the
performance of its functions and the
exercise of its powers and the Board
shall comply with these directions.” In
fact, it is claimed that the Wheat Board
has been recently advised that approval
must be obtained for credit sales extend-
ing beyond a period of six months. On
the other hand it is significant that the
Government Export Payments Insurance
Company (EPIC) has refused to insure
these credit sales.
Coinciding with our Communist China
sales has been a large increase in our
wheat acreage; in 1960-61 nearly 13k
million acres were sown; in 1961-62
over 14,700,000 acres, and the current
harvest is taken off from nearly 16
million acres. In fact, our wheat acreage
has nearly doubled since 1956-57, and
is an all-time record (apait from the
“Grow - More - Wheat” year of 1930-31
during the Depression). Fortunately for
Australia, during the last two years,
overseas demand for wheat was un-
usually high, and so the Wheat Board
was able to sell the record quantity of
231 million bushels in 1960-61; how-
ever, in 1961-62 (the grain year ends on
November 30) our exports were down
to 178 million bushels—which is still a
very large amount as our exports in the
fifties averaged about one hundred
million bushels ranging from 52 to 128
million bushels.
Should Australia base its wheat export
policy on regular, large credit sales to
China, and on the expectation of poor
crops in some important wheat-growing
parts of the world (as happened during
the last two years)? The answer surely
is NO. Therefore the Commonwealth
Government must stop encouraging a
further increase in our wheat acreage.
It must be kept in mind that not only
have acreages been increasing but also
yields per acre; the average yield per
acre of our five last harvests was well
over 18 bushels, a fifty per cent increase
compared with pre-war. This welcome
increase in the productivity of our
W'heatlands is mainly due to high-yielding
and disease-resistant varieties and the
employment of improved cultural and
pest control techniques. Where are we
going to market our future 300 million
bushel crops? The US Department of
Agriculture has forecast that the im-
balance between supply and commercial
demand for wheat will worsen again in
1963, and the long-term prospects for
selling wheat to Europe are extremely
poor, for a number of reasons. In
1963, West Europe’s imports will
practically consist of only hard wheats
for blending with this year’s abundant
supply of local soft wheat—the outcome
of Western Europe’s crops being nearly
300 million bushels bigger than last
year. Increasing wheat production in
the European Economic Community
countries and declining bread consump-
tion will make France a serious com-
petitor for Australia on the remaining
world market. The coming wheat
legislation will enable the Common-
wealth Government to put our wheat
industry on a sound basis for the re-
maining 1960 s —if due notice is taken l
of the main features of the world wheat
scene.
Perhaps the main reason for the
current swing to wheat-growing is that
our wheatgrowers are not worried by
the “cost-price” squeeze. According to
our legislation they are guaranteed a
cost of production return (which in
reality includes a handsome profit
margin) for about 150 million bushels —
100 million bushels of export plus local
consumption. Cost of production is
generously assessed including managerial
allowance, depreciation. interest on
farmers’ equity, etc.; however, the
really controversial point is the low
yield divisor of 15.5 bushels. This
means that cost of production is assessed
on the assumption that the yield per
acre is 15.5 whilst the average yield per
acre of our last five harvests was well
over 18 bushels. This means that cost
of production apart from being
generously assessed includes a profii
margin of about 3s. per bushel. Small
wonder that land values in wheat dis-
tricts are high, and wheat acreages are
increasing—currently Australia is reap-
ing an all-time record harvest although
weather conditions at critical times in
many districts were not very favorable,
How long will taxpayers be asked to sub-
sidise a prosperous industry? The sub-
sidy for the current harvest might amount
to nearly £lom, and nearly £2om has
been paid to wheatgrowers from Consoli-
dated Revenue during the current Wheat
Stabilisation Plan.
In addition the Wheatgrowers’ Federa-
tion has asked the Federal Government
to increase the Commonwealth guarantee
from 100 million bushels of export to
150 million bushels, and to include i
specific profit component in the ne\'
wheat legislation; this profit component
would be in addition to the profit


HELP
YW=t*fL\*kA
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM2OOI.
arising from the low yield divisor. The
new wheat legislation will commence
with the 1963-64 harvest and will have
to be enacted late in 1963; in view of
pending elections there is great danger
that the Commonwealth Government
might yield to the powerful pressure of
our 50,000 wheatgrowers. However, the
real danger of a continuance of the
current favorable wheat legislation
(nobody is against what is called
“orderly marketing” by the Wheat
Board!) is that it would encourage a
further increase in our wheat acreage—
Australia’s potential for growing wheat
is much higher than often realised! And
this raises again the question of markets,
and especially our future wheat policy
towards Communist China.
I am in favor of selling wheat to
Communist China, but is it not rather
dangerous to make large credit sales
the basis of our expanded wheat pro-
duction in the 19605? In the 1950 s our
exports averaged about 100 million
bushels —in 1963 we shall have an ex-
portable surplus of over 200 million
bushels; with expanding acreages and
increasing yields per acre, Australia will
soon have unmanageable carry-overs
similar to those of the United States. It
would be a creditable achievement for
the Australian Wheat Board to export
annually 150 million bushels in the
remaining 19605; an acreage of less than
13 million would suffice, and not nearly
16 million as for the current harvest.
Many agricultural economists think
that the recent swing to wheatgrowing
implies a misallocation of our natural
resources of land, labor and capital.
Is control of acreage necessary? No.
If the coming wheat legislation does not
favor wheatgrowing at the expense of
other rural activities, the situation will
rectify itself gradually. Currently an
investigation is being made into the econ-
omic position of the Australian wheat in-
dustry; however, what is the use of these
expensive investigations if the Federal
Government does not accept the recorm
mendations of the enquiry committees,
as happened with the sugar and dairying
industries.
It is sheer Micawberism to expect that
the Australian Wheat Board will be
able to sell export surpluses arising from
16 million wheat acreages. In the re-
maining sixties, world production of
wheat is going to increase at a much
faster rate than commercial demand for
wheat. A careful assessment of Austra-
lia’s wheat marketing potential in the
1960 s should be undertaken, and our
wheat industry should be put on a firm
basis. Otherwise, Communist China
will not have to ask Australia for credit
sales; Australia will have to ask Com-
munist China to buy our burdensome
carry-overs at terms acceptable to them.
LUNG CANCER
ADVERTISEMENTS
The weed still flourishes
From ABRAHAM MARCUS in London
and women smoked more cigarettes in Britain last year than ever
before. Latest estimates suggest that the drop in sales that
followed the publication of the Royal College of Physicians’ report on
smoking and lung cancer has been halted and that the figures are almost
hack to normal.
In effect, the enormous publicity in
newspapers and on television that
followed the report and the discussions
in Parliament and in local government
throughout the country have hardly be-
gun to influence the cigarette habit. The
opposing forces have fought back suc-
cessfully. Only last week, the trade
group of the poster advertising firms
w ere brash enough to ban an official
Ministry of Health poster from its
hoardings because the poster said that
cigarettes cause lung cancer.” The
poster people said this was too definite,
and on television their representative
effortlessly contended that there was
no real evidence for the Ministry of
Health claim.
The way of the reformer is notori-
ously hard but many experts are begin-
ning to wonder if the campaign against
lung cancer can really be taken very
far by present methods and half-hearted
attempts at mass persuasion. Even when
the attempt is most determined the re-
sults are equally disappointing. Not long
ago the Edinburgh Medical School con-
ducted an experiment to find out exactly
how effective anti-smoking campaigns
are. They mobilised all the city’s pub-
licity machinery and bombarded the
people with information about smoking
and lung cancer. A follow-up survey of
opinion showed that very little impact
had been made on the public.
It is true that in the past nine months
little positive action has been taken. All
the threats of action to prohibit smoking
in public places have proved empty.
Since the Government’s lead has been
confined to exhortation, the county and
borough councils have been reluctant to
follow up the first flush of enthusiasm by
invoking bye-laws to prohibit smoking in
theatres and cinemas.
The Royal College of Physicians’ re-
port has been a best seller—-as those
books go—having sold close on 40,000
copies in Britain alone, has been pub-
lished in translation in many European
countries, condensed in the Readers’
Digest and featured in popular maga-
zines all over the world. It would seem
that more people than ever before must
be aware of the facts.
Smoking is the kind of public health
problem that is becoming increasingly
common in modern times. Doctors have
always believed that these problems have
to be solved by the individual himself
after being properly advised and educa-
ted. But this belief seems to have been
discredited. Is it possible that there is no
solution to these problems other than to
make safe what has previously been
dangerous by further research and to
enable people to enjoy their vices in
safety ? Filter tips are selling more than
ever before, the new water filters that re-
move much of the tars from cigarette
smoke are enjoying a boom. This sug-
gests that the public are determined to
hold on to their addictions while taking
every possible step to mitigate the ill-
effects.
It is likely, then, that the tobacco
manufacturers will win out in the end
and that one day they will make the
world safe for the addict by announcing
the carcinogen-free cigarette. The day
may be very far off and the road to it
will be covered by hundreds of thous-
ands more corpses of those who have
died from lung cancer.
Meanwhile, one must be grateful that
the television commercials have been
altered. The cigarette, it seems, is no
longer the prelude to young love.


SUMMER HOLIDAY
SHORT STORY BY PAT FLOWER
%ikikikikskskikM “I can see Myself leaving trains and booking in at motels,
and I see myself grown-up-looking and not a scrap nervous
I’m in the train going for two weeks’
holiday to Mittagong which is about
80 miles from Sydney, roughly south-
west I think, perhaps a bit more south
than west. The tips of my fingers are
sore because 1 had to do a bit of sewing
for Mother because her machine has
gone on the blink. By hand. I hate
sewing by hand. It hurts my eyes because
I can’t see very well close to and it’s a
strain. But Mother is always in such a
state that she doesn’t seem to notice any-
thing wrong with me, so I’ve given up
telling her. She’s such a child, really.
She jumped at the offer by my friend
Alice that I should go for this summer
holiday. I suppose she’s glad to get rid
of me, because although I’m not much
bother I suppose I get on her nerves.
I’m at an awkward age, thirteen, that’s
what she says and sighs. She’s been
sighing extra lately. She’s very pretty,
my Mother, and sort of vague-looking, as
if she’s thinking of other things all the
time. They don’t seem too happy,
Mother and Daddy, I don’t know why.
Daddy's the nicest man I know. Anyway,
I’m in the train and that’s that. Also
I’ve got an ingrown toenail, because I
was allowed for the first time to buy
some shoes for myself and I got spike
heels and pointy toes. It's just that I
haven’t got used to them yet.
npHE country is very dry. There's a
drought this summer, and two men in
the train are saying it’s the worst they’ve
seen in years. People always say that:
everything is the worst, or the biggest,
or the highest, or the heaviest. I guess
everything is just getting more so than
it ever was before. Here’s Mittagong
coming up now, it doesn’t look very ex-
citing from here, they say there are some
historic buildings but that’s not ravishing
for a holiday. I’m not really crazy about
Alice, she’s always trying to find out
things, always asking questions about the
way we live and about my father and
how much money we’ve got, looking
sly. She’s going to meet me but
the train's in the station now and I
can’t see her. Everyone else goes off
alone or is met and I’m still waiting
around and gosh, if there’s anything I
hate it’s that, people looking at you like
that porter is looking at me. If there’s
one thing I hate it’s having to wait
around and have people looking at me.
Here’s a man coming. He looks sen-
sible. He’s not sidling, he’s striding, and
he’s coming straight for me.
“You Phoebe?” he asks, smiling and
looking sad at the same time.
“Yes.”
“Well, bad luck, Alice has got measles.
I’m her father. We thought she had a
bit of a cold and then the spots started
and there wasn't time to stop you
coming. Shame about your holiday, but
it’d be just plumb crazy to come out
home now, you’d get it too. Sorry we
didn’t know before you set out. We’d
better ring your Mum. You’re on the
phone, aren't you? This your bag?”
“Yes.”
“Come along, then.”
I follow him, my ingrown toenail hurt-
ing like anything. He’s a big man and
strides at the length of his legs. I’m trail-
ing behind. He’s just in a shirt and
trousers that hang on his hips. I don't
like that much, but he has a nice face.
Big and red and kind and sad. We get
in his old car and he drives to the post
office and puts through a call to the
number I give him and explains every-
thing, waving his free hand about as
though Mother can see him.
“Well, that’s that,” he says afterwards.
“There’s a train to Sydney in an hour
or so. You’d like an ice cream or some-
thing, wouldn’t you.”
The time goes quickly while I eat two
ices and he tells me all about his farm
and the hard times and the drought and
he thinks he'll have to give up, what
with the banks and everything. Although
he laughs I feel very sad and want to
cry, but I expect it’s because of Alice's
measles and having to go straight back
home. I don’t like staying at home for
a holiday, especially in summer when
it’s so hot in the city and Mother and
Father and everything.
We say goodbye and I’m in the train
again, seeing the same telegraph poles
going the other way. I feel so tired,
and like always when I’m tired I count
things, and I’m counting the telegraph
poles and my eyes are aching but I can’t
seem to stop. I’m fed up. It’s going to
be awful just getting that horrid old bus
home from the station and going back in
that dark little house. I’m sure Mother
was glad to get rid of me, I mean just
relieved to have me off her hands for a
while.
It’s a grey day in Sydney, a settled-
in sort of grey, like old grey wool socks.
The buildings look even dirtier than
when I left this morning. It’s funny,
though, on a sunny day, in the strong
clear light we have here, the same;
buildings look ravishing.
T shut my mind during the bush jour-
ney, and my eyes, too. most of the way.
The conductor is very little and wears
his leather ticket-holder on a belt that
just clings round his bottom. I expect if
Alice was with me, or my other friend
Roma, we’d giggle, but today it’s depres-
sing. I get off at Hope Street and walk
along to No. 97, where we live. It’s one
in a terrace of old houses, dark and
poky, two-storied. Everything looks shut
about the house and I’m surprised to say
the least. After Alice’s father telephoning
and everything. I get out my key and
go in and there’s a great big silence
bursting out of the house. Funny. Per-
haps Mother’s gone to the shops for
something; it must be something like
that. Then I see an envelope shining
white in the dingy little hall, propped on
the old umbrella stand. It has my name
on it. It's Mother’s writing, and I open
it standing there.
It says, “Darling, your father’s brother
is ill, Uncle Reg, and he’s had to go to
Newcastle. I hope you won’t mind,
darling, but I’ve gone off up to Moree
to stay with your Aunt Helen for a week
or two. I just had to. You know how I
hate this dark house alone. Your mes-
sage came after I’d decided, and I tried
to stay but I just couldn't face it. You'll
be all right. Mrs Morris says you can
stay with her. I didn’t go into everything
with her, I just said I'd been called away.
Try not to brood, darling. You’ve still
got your holiday money to spend, and
just leave everything else to Mrs Morris.
Your loving Mother.”
I’d better explain that Aunt Helen is
Mother’s sister and Mrs Morris is the
woman next door. Uncle Reg is nice,
like Father. I don’t like Mrs Morris
much. She stares, like porters and people
in bus queues. I don’t know why the)
stare, unless it’s because my hair’s the


color of carrots and I’m big for my age.
I go into the sitting room and sit.
I’m not having a very ravishing day,
am I? I take my shoes off and wiggle my
left big toe which is the ingrown toenail
one. and hiss with relief.
There is a ring at the front doorbell
and I go and open the door. It’s Mrs
Morris, looking nosey.
“I saw you come in,” she says, “and
your Mother asked me to watch out for
you. She had to go away.” Her eyes
are trying to see inside me and I like her
even less. “Would you like to come over
to my place now? We’ll be having tea
soon and the telly.”
T smile and shake my head and lie.
“Thank you very much, Mrs Morris,
but Mother just rang up. She’s changed
her mind and wants me to go up there
too.”
“What time does the train leave?” she
asks, trying to trap me.
Lying comes easy. “She’s going by
car,” I say casually, “we’re going to-
gether. With a friend.” She can’t argue
against that; “with a friend” may sound
vague but it also sounds irre . . . (that
word that means you can’t argue about
it).
“But wouldn’t you like some tea first,
dear?” she urges.
“No, thank you, Mrs Morris. I have
to go at once.”
She lets me close the door on her, but
only just. She's itching to find out some-
thing. I turn away from the door feeling
busy and happy because I have some-
thing to do, and then it hits me. I haven’t
anything to do. Even if I was going
away my bag is packed ready. I’ve still
got my shoes off and my silent footsteps
make the silence worse. I go upstairs and
put on my old school shoes and clump
about trying not to feel lonely. And then
I think suddenly, well, why shouldn’t I?
Why shouldn't I go after Mother? I’m
the one who should stop her being
lonely, I’m much closer to her than Aunt
Helen, I’m her daughter, aren't I? Flesh
of her flesh, blood of her blood. It’s a
pretty ravishing thought, that makes
you feel you belong. It makes me feel
that Mother wants me to follow her, that
she’s willing me to follow her.
I count my money. I’ve often heard
Mother say that motels are the best to
stay at when you’re travelling. Every-
thing’s self-contained with your own hot
shower and lavatory. You just book in
and that’s that. I don’t see why anyone’s
age should make any difference. So long
as you pay that’s all they worry about.
I decide to travel in easy stages. After
all it is my holiday. She doesn’t expect
me anyway, so whenever I arrive it’ll be
sooner than she thought. I must find out
about trains and places to stay at. Now
I’m getting excited, so excited I forget
to feel nervous at being alone. I re-
member there’s a NRMA book about
motels and things, and I find it in the
drawer where things like that are kept.
Also a map of New South Wales. I’ll
stop at Muswellbrook first. I’d like to be
going to Murwillumbah, it’s a beaut and
ravishing name, only it’s in the wrong
direction. I can see myself leaving trains
and booking in at motels, and I see
myself very grown-up-looking and not a
“I’m at an awkward
age, thirteen . . »
scrap nervous. In fact, it’s all pretty
ravishing. Maybe I’ll do my hair up and
look older. I can’t wait, I rush to my
bedroom where I have one of those
mirrors that tip backwards and forwards
with bits of the back worn off and
always dusty. I dust it with my hanky,
get it at the right angle and then get to
work on my hair. It’s just long enough
to bend round at the back and hold with
pins, only it seems to take an awful lot.
My mouth is full of pins. But gosh, it
makes a difference. I look a lot older
and sort of sad, like a young widow. I
prance about in front of the glass and
wish I could see all the way down. Then
I remember Mother's glass and go into
their room, and then I see I’ve still got
my old school shoes on and I laugh
like anything and get the giggles and
then I start to cry and I sit on the side
of their bed and I can't stop for quite
a time. The thing that stops me is the
old school shoes. I kick them off and go
and get the new' ones from the sitting
room and come back and put them on
in front of the glass. Now I do look
grown-up, anyway about the feet and
head. This dress is a bit babyish, just a
printed cotton with a gathered skirt and
a belt. I’m longing to be grown up.
Parents seem to hate you acting on your
own, they seem to like to keep you
babies as long as possible. I wonder why.
ITlhen I remember I’ve got to find out
about trains. 1 ring Railway Inquiries
and ask about a train to Muswellbrook
in the morning. Oh yes, the man says,
that’s the Moree train. Oh, by the way, I
say, what time did the Moree train go
this afternoon. Oh, he says, there wasn’t
a train this afternoon, there’s only one a
day to Moree, the morning one, early.
Oh, I say, thank you, and ring off. Isn’t
that funny. Mother can’t get a train till
tomorrow morning. Perhaps she didn’t
know and forgot to find out and is just
sitting waiting in the waiting room. She’s
not very practical, I’ve often heard my
father say that. Well, isn’t that exciting
after all. It looks as though we'll be
getting the same train. Gosh, she’ll be
pleased to see me. I think at first I
might go and join her right off, then I
think I’ll surprise her in the morning.
I take off the pointy-toed shoes.
Well, I suppose I'd better go to bed.


That gives me a sinking feeling. It makes
me feel the emptiness in the house.
Empty rooms, dark passages, cupboard
doors where someone could be hiding. I
always hate going to bed, but alone, all
alone in the house. I ought to have a
shower. I go round and check all the
doors and windows then come back up-
stairs, then I feel hungry and go down
to the kitchen and there’s only eggs,
cheese and bread. I have some bread and
cheese, cutting off chunks at the table
standing up. I try to pretend that Mother
and Daddy are there so I won’t feel so
lonely and scared. I go up to the bath-
room trying to pretend I’m not alone in
the house, but as soon as I'm in there I
can’t stand the thought of it how
awful if someone came in while you’ve
got nothing on. So I clean my teeth
quickly and wash my face looking over
my shoulder all the time to see if the
door’s slowly opening. Then I fly to the
bedroom and shut the door and lock it,
just in time, just as somebody reaches it
outside. I listen for breathing. I can’t
hear any, they must be holding their
breath. Then I think supposing I have
a heart attack in the night, how would
they get in to save me. The more I
think about it the surer I am that my
heart feels funny. So I get a chair and
unlock the door without squeaking it
and put the chair against it. At least
I’ll hear them when they come in. I
can’t undress, no I can’t supposing
somebody awful came in in the night.
If you have your clothes on you can
fight better. I know I won’t sleep any-
way. I’ll keep the light on, so they’ll
think perhaps there’s more than one
person in here and we’re still up. I lie
down and suddenly it’s morning.
chair's still there, just where I put
-*■ it. Everything’s just where it was. It’s
still grey outside. It’s going to be one
of those grey fortnights, I can tell.
Everything’s going wrong: Alice’s
measles, being packed off home, both
parents gone it’s not very ravishing
for your summer holiday, is it? Still, as
soon as I catch up with Mother every-
thing will start going right again.
Mother’s hair is a darker red than mine,
and she’s got dark blue eyes and a
creamy skin, and she’s petiter, and sort
of other-worldly. She looks like those
lovely cherished ladies in old period
portraits and I’ve heard her say that she
wasn’t meant to live in this little dark
inconvenient house. I get up. I feel tired,
but that’s nothing new. Mother says I
tire myself out with needless worry, and
also I’m at a tired age, whatever that
means.
Anyway, it’s twenty past six and the
train doesn’t go for about two hours, so
I have a real thorough wash under the
shower, then I go downstairs and make
poached eggs, two, on toast, and some
tea in my dressing-gown. Afterwards I
put the food away and the other things
in the sink and fill the sink with water.
That’ll do. Then I trail upstairs and go
to their room and use Mother’s scent,
putting it behind my ears and on my
hair and the nape of my neck, as she
does. I try not to notice how bare their
room looks. I go back to mine and dress,
putting on my most grown-up frock, a
straight navy-blue linen with a belt.
I put on a lot of lipstick an old one
of Mother’s I find in the bathroom
cabinet and make-up my eyes and
eyebrows with a 6B pencil. Then I do
up my hair and it takes hours, and I'm
pretty fed up with it by the time it’s
done. Then I put on my new shoes and
I can tell you I look pretty ravishing.
And terribly old. About twenty, at least.
I lock the front door behind me and
go out the gate, and I’m sure I can
see Mrs Morris’ curtains twitch. Old
busybody. I walk down the street with
my head in the air. I wouldn’t tell every-
one this, but these shoes are killing me.
They feel smaller and tighter than
yesterday. 1 get the old bus to Central
Railway and ease my shoes off. We jolt
through the narrow shopping centre and
it all looks pretty dismal. All those
painted shop fronts turquoise and
yellow and pink and all the neon
signs, I always think they look pretty
ghastly on a grey day, sort of hopeless
and lonely, like a terrible old woman
done up in lipstick and lace. And the
smells fish and chocolate and manure
and cauliflower. I’m glad when we get
to the station.
I buy my ticket, a single. After all, we
don’t know how long we’ll stay. Aunt
Helen might like us to stay on and I
don’t care if I miss a bit of school.
Besides, that’s all I can afford. I buy
a magazine and a packet of chocolate
(milk with brazil nuts) and go and get in
my train anc: take my shoes off.
We’re nearly at Muswellbrook now.
I’m terribly excited about the motel. I
think I’ll go straight to my room. I’ll
lie down with some eau de Cologne.
The train stops with jerks, a sigh and
then silence. The Spaniard with the
bananas pushes in front and I see him
shoving his way into the refreshment
rooms as I get off the train. I’ve only just
got my feet into my shoes, I mean they
feel too big now, they seem to be getting
bigger and the shoes smaller. I hobble
along and give up my ticket and there’s
a taxi, a nice country taxi, and I have
to get it whatever it costs because of my
feet. I tell the driver the name of the
motel and we go there. It’s a bit fright-
ening going in alone. There’s a woman
with blue hair and glasses behind a desk
and there’s a lot of glass and the sort
of carpets they call discreet. I tell her
I want a single room for the night and
she just books me in as though I’m really
grown-up and we exchange money and
keys. Then she looks at me and looks
through the wall of glass.
“No car?” she says.
“I’m meeting my mother,” I say with
a haughty pout like Sophia Loren.
Her face softens. The word “mother”
does that to some people.
“I think I'll go straight to my room,”
I add. I’ve always wanted to say that.
“Will you fill in your breakfast card?”
she asks. “You can let me have it back
later. There’s the service station cafe if
you want anything to eat.”
“Thank you,” I say distantly, and
walk off quickly but keeping my dignity.
HThe room is exciting. A dear little bed
with a lamp for reading and a chen-
ille bedspread patterned like a leopard,
and shelves and a table and chair and dis-
creet carpet. Pink tiles in the shower
and lavatory, and there’s soap and toilet
paper and tissues and a piece of paper
over the lavatory saying it’s been Sani-
tised. I"ve taken my shoes off already and
now I lie down on the bed with some
eau de Cologne to dab on my forehead.
I think of Mother and wish I’d caught
up with her before she set out, then we
could have done this together and it
would have been much more fun. I
wonder where she is. Then I suddenly
remember she should have been on my
train this morning, but she wasn’t. I try
to puzzle it out. I get up off the bed
on my poor feet and find her note and
lie down again. The note doesn't help,
just says she’s gone to Moree. Perhaps
she flew or hired a car or went by
Pioneer bus. I’m very vague about all
these things. Well, anyway, she’ll be
there when I get there, and I feel nice
and warm inside and wanted.
About half-past five I get up and have
a showc:. It’s marvellous. The pink tiles
are luxurious, so different from our
nasty old bathroom which has green
paint peeling and that old grubby look.
Then I dress again in the same dress
because it’s the only sort of grown-up
one I’ve got. I have to go through all that
business with my hair again, but I’m
getting more used to it now. And the
lipstick and the 6B pencil. Tomorrow, I
think, before I set off again, I’ll go to
Woolies and get some real make-up. 1
fill in the breakfast order. Then I go out
and go up to the service station cafe,
because by this time I’m pretty ravenous.
I try to pretend I don’t care whether
people are looking at me or not, but
as soon as I go in there I blush. There
aren’t many people in there, it’s a bit
early, and I sit at a table to myself.
There are two noisy young men stuffing
steak and eggs into themselves, and an-
other quiet one alone, and two elderlji


people, a man and a woman, sitting
silent at another table. The tables are
green and hard and shiny with metal
legs, and metal chairs with green seats.
There’s a terrible smell of frying that
takes your breath away. I ease my heels
out of my shoes and the waitress comes
over and says, “Yes?” in an unfriendly
voice. I order steak and kidney pie which
I love, and she brings a plate of grey
bread and some butter and a bottle of
tomato sauce. The quiet young man is
staring and I try to ignore him. He’s
very pale and has a receding chin. The
steak and kidney pie isn’t as nice as
Mother’s but it’s all right. I have coffee
afterwards and wish I was brave enough
to smoke if I had any cigarettes. I have
never tried but I think it looks terribly
grown-up. When I get up to go the
young man turns to look after me and I
hate it and him.
I go back to my room, walking slowly
because I don’t really want to get there.
I have another hot shower to fill in
time, then I sit down in front of the
glass and try my hair in some different
ways. They all look ghastly. Then I have
a go at my toenail, and after that I
stuff some pants into the toe of my shoe
to try and stretch it a bit by the morning.
Then I go to bed with Poems of Shelley,
Selection, World’s Classics, 187, Oxford,
which I happen to have in my luggage
because I was taking it to read The
Cenci with Alice out loud, because she’s
a bit of a dill and can’t understand
things unless she does them aloud with
somebody. It’s nice with the reading
lamp, I don’t have one at home, I sup-
pose because nobody’s thought of it.
It’s sort of cosy, like a little world of
sunshine all my own. Then I fall asleep
because the next thing I know it’s morn-
ing and there’s a lady in a white uni-
form with my breakfast on a tray.
T ought to be off my food, what with
A Alice’s measles and having to come
back home, then the empty house and me
having to face all this alone, but I’m
starving and I eat all the porridge and
bacon and eggs, and all the toast and
butter and marmalade and coffee. Then
I shower and get dressed and pack up
and walk up to the office with my bag.
I'm haughty again with this woman as
I pay my bill, the only thing is it’s an-
other woman and she couldn’t care less.
I'd been all ready to say that my Mother
had just arrived in her car and we’re
going on, but this woman doesn’t care
tuppence whether I’ve got a Mother or
not.
The sky is still grey but it’s got humid
and my shoes are getting smaller all the
time. I have some time to fill in so I go
to a cafe I see and have a cup of tea.
As soon as I’m sitting down I ease my
feet out of my shoes. Ah, the relief! I
drink all the tea there is including the
second lot of weak stuff you get with
the hot water refill and read “Julian and
Maddalo” which I haven’t read before
and don’t think very much of, but there’s
one bit that brings a lump to my throat
. .See
This lovely child, blithe, innocent and
free;
She spends a happy time with little
care,
While we to such sick thoughts sub-
jected are
As came on you last night. . .’
I’d like to change into some old
sandals I’ve got in my bag, but I’m not
going to. I have a sort of feeling that if
I win out over these shoes everything
will come out all right. Right now I feel
a long way from home and a long way
from Mother. I’m just about ready to
blubber like a kid. So I shove my feet
into my shoes and go over to the counter
and buy some chocs, then I come back
and pick up my bag and go on out.
I wait for years and years before the
train goes.
I’m not going to tell you about this
next place because it’s just like the last
place. I mean the bedspread’s different
and the tiles in the shower, but every-
thing’s so much the same that it seems
silly to go over it all again. I’m getting
a bit fed up. I hope every adventure isn’t
like this, it’s not nearly so ravishing as
I thought it was going to be. I wish my
feet would go numb, I always thought
pain either went numb or you got used
to it, but my ingrown toenail is getting
worse, it’s all inflamed now and the
ointment I got isn’t doing it any good
and now I’ve got blisters on my heels.
I’m glad when it’s morning again.
There’s only this one more night and
then tomorrow I’ll get to Moree, to
Mother at Aunt Helen’s. I’ll gloss over
this day because it’s not being very
ravishing, and although my body’s so
clean this dress is getting smelly. I’ll have
to put on something else tomorrow even
if it is childish and crushed.
Well, I’ve just arrived at this new
place and I’ve booked in and now I’m
going through the old routine. I seem
to have been doing this all my life. After
my shower I go on up to the restaurant
and eat. I’m managing my hair better
now and I look terribly grown-up and
rather bored. I suppose that’s because
I feel bored. After I finish eating I start
the old slow walk back to my room
again and that’s when it happens. Would
you believe it, there’s Mother! Just
coming out of the room next to mine!
She looks all flushed and excited.
“Mother!” I scream.
She stops dead as though she’s been
kicked by a horse, and she stares at me
and goes as white as a sheet, then she
makes some sort of crazy sort of waving
motion with one hand behind her. I
rush up to her.
“Mother,” I babble (I don’t know I’m
babbling till after), “how lovely! I
thought you were going straight to
Moree.” My arms are round her, just
about crushing her, and then I draw
back and look at her, I’m so glad, I can’t
tell you how glad I am to see her, I
want to cry. She still looks white and
sort of wooden.
“What are you doing here?” she says.
TWt seems a pretty silly question to
A me. She must know I’m here because
I’m following her.
“I’m following you,” I say. “I didn’t
want to stay in Sydney alone. I thought
you’d gone straight to Moree in one
whoosh, so I thought I’d dawdle along
as it’s my holiday, but it's not very
ravishing.”
“Your hair,” she says.
“Yes,” I say proudly, and turn round
to show her. Then I say, “Is this your
room, let’s go in, I’ll move in tonight,
they won’t mind, I’m so lonely by my-
self. Oh gosh, I’m glad to see you!”
I’m almost inside her door when she
cries out “No” in a terribly funny voice.
I stop for a moment, well naturally
when someone says “No,” particularly
your Mother, then I push the door wide
and start to go in.
“Oh, Mother, my feet are killing me.”
I go in and there’s a man sitting on
one of the beds. He just stares at me,
then looks down at his hands which
are clasped between his knees. I stare
at him, then I get furious.
“Mother,” I cry out, “come in here.
There’s a strange man in your room.”
I look towards the door and she’s there,
but she doesn’t look surprised, only aw-
fully sad and sort of ashamed.
I watch with my mouth open, I don’t
mean I open it specially but after a
while I realize it’s open, while they look
at each other quickly and away and
down, like one of the girls at my school
who is a liar and who looks like that
when she’s found out. It hits me
silly, stupid me. They’re here together,
they know each other, my Mother is in
this strange motel room with a man who
isn’t my Father. I look at him and
while I’m looking he flushes and looks
anywhere but at me. He’s got dark hair
with a lot of hair-oil on and rather
whiskery eyebrows, and he’s very big
and his hands are big and red and a dark
grey suit and that’s about all. My father
has nice hands with golden hair and
always looks relaxed. And he’s quiet
and keeps to himself. I look at Mother
and she suddenly seems to come to.
“Phoebe,” she says, “darling,” she


AC^K''
kjh
k
WITH
SPECIAL KEYING SYSTEMS
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which operates that lock only and
no other, but the locks are divided into two or more groups. Each group
is subject to its own Master-Key which opens all locks in that group, but
no other group.
However, all locks are also subject to a Grand Master-Key wlwh opens
all locks in all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike groups may also be Included
in G.M.K. Systems.
WITH THE LQCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM
YOU NEED CARRY ONLY
ONE KEY INSTEAD OF* ,
HUNDREDS!
REPLACING INSECURITY
AND CONFUSION WITH
MAXIMUM SECURITY,
MAXIMUM
CONVENIENCE!
In industry and commerce today a Lockwood MK System is an essentia!
pre-requisite to controlled security, throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade
and Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part
of the building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are
held on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries
enabling quick replacement of lost keys or damaged locks “true to code”, and
allowing absolute control of. additions or extensions to the system.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss
Master-Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty,
Limited at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention.
IPCK UP
V^fTM
jh
kjh
Manufactured in Australia by
OGDEN INDUSTRIES PTY. LIMITED
Brisbane 7-3047 • Sydney LM 3191, LM 3186 • Canberra 4-4098 ,
Adelaide W 2153 • Perth 23-2214 • Hobart 3-3141 • Melbourne 569-0611
says, “this is Mr Bancroft, a friend of
mine.”
“Where’s Daddy?” I say rudely.
“He’s . . . he's . . . darling, don’t
be like that. He had to go, his brother
was ill, he really had to. Yes, yes, I know
that doesn’t explain I mean
Phoebe!” It’s a terrible cry, sort of
strangled. “Phoebe, you know I can’t
bear to live in that dark little house any
longer, everything's gone wrong, your
father doesn't care no, of course it’s
not his fault, I don’t mean that but
things just haven't turned out, they’ve
got worse, there’s no future . . .” her
vague dark eyes are filled with tears and
I can see how weak she is. I run out
of the room. You might think I couldn’t
run in these shoes, but I’ve forgotten
about my feet. I rush into my room next
door, bang the door shut and press that
button in the middle of the handle that
locks it automatically.
As I expect, there’s a knock. I’m so
angry I want to kill somebody. 1 stand on
my side of the door and yell in my
tennis-scoring voice, “Go away!”
“Phoebe!”
“Go away!”
“What are you going to do?”
“I’m going back to Daddy and the
dark little house.”
“Don’t tell him, Phoebe. Don’t tell
him. Just say 1 went away.”
“Go away, go away, go away.” And
then 1 cry, and I cry and cry and cry.
I don’t know how long she’s known this
man. A stronger, just think, a complete
stronger! 1 don't think I’ll have another
shower, it’s all a bit vague, I just cry
and go to sleep.
This morning I wake early and I’m
dressed when breakfast comes, and I
just shove a bit of food into my mouth
and thank heaven there's an early train
to Moree because that’s where I’m going,
to Aunt Helen as planned, and I'll work
out what I’m going to say to my long :
suffering father. I’ve only just seen he's
long-suffering, mind you, but I do see
it now, plain as a pikestaff.
As I expect, she’s lying in wait for
me, because as soon as I open my door
hers springs open and she rushes out.
Thank heaven he has the sense to stay
inside.
“Phoebe.”
1 hunch my shoulder away from her
hands. “Don't make a scene,” 1 hiss, “you
know I hate scenes.” I stalk off up the
path, wobbling with rage on my spiky
heels.
She doesn't follow, and I don’t look
round, but I just know she’s standing
there watching me, with those big dark
blue selfish eyes full of tears. I’ve heard
of people's hearts turning to stone, but
it’s my mouth that feels like granite, and
when I’m paying my bill I can hardly
move my lips to say the few words they
seem to expect.
Now I’m in the train again, a slow
old train that stops at every station and
lots of times when there aren't any
stations. She didn’t say if she’s ever
coming back but I know in my bones she
isn't. Isn t that funny? I mean isn't it
funny that someone you think belongs to
you can just go off, just like that. It
feels like a part of you breaking off. It
feels so lonely, worse than just being
alone. I’m longing to be grown up. The
countryside is flat as a pancake and
covered all over with dead sheep from
the drought. They’re stiff and they look
swollen and not as silly as when they’re
alive. I start to count them. I try to see
out both sides of the train at once so
that I can count as many as possible.
I take my left shoe off, I think this
toenail is going numb at last, and about
time too. What am I going to say to
Aunt Helen? After all, she is Mother’s
sister.
I’ve counted 78 dead sheep so far.


OVERSEAS
THE MAN IN THE MIDDLE
Or " What's in it for me?"
From DENNIS BLOODWORTH in Singapore
IT was eleven at night and the party
was over. The Chinese lion dancers,
the Malayan drummers, the guests,
and even the host—Mr Lee Kuan Yew,
Singapore's Prime Minister—had left the
floodlit lawns of his official residence.
But in the residence itself, the guest
of honor, Prince Norodom Sihanouk of
Cambodia, sank with a sigh on to the
yellow satin cushions of a white settee
and, sipping orange juice, once more per-
formed that verbal slackwire act which
has made him the only genuine neutral in
Asia.
It was a particularly delicate moment,
for the Prince was very much in mid-
air, mid-wire. During the preceding fort-
night he had been the guest of President
Soekarno of Indonesia, he had represen-
ted Cambodia at the conference of six
neutralist nations held in Ceylon to find
a solution for the Sino-Indian border
quarrel, he was now visiting Singapore,
and from here was going on to the Fed-
eration of Malaya.
In theory, an agreeable round trip. But
in the middle of it all, Mr A. Mahmud
Azahari, the now famous absentee war-
lord of Borneo, had mounted a left-wing
insurrection in Brunei while sitting safely
m Manila. The revolt was mainly direc-
ted against the project of Tengku Abdul
Rahman, Prime Minister of Malaya, to
unite the British territories in Borneo
w itb his own country and Singapore in a
new anti-Communist federation to be
called Malaysia. President Soekarno had
quickly come out in favor of the rebels,
and declared that any Indonesian who
failed to support them would be “a traitor
to his own soul.”
Djakarta’s attitude produced a crisis in
relations between Indonesia and Malaya
—just when Sihanouk was visiting both
in succession.
There is a tendency to confuse Sihan-
ouk with Soekarno, and when they pro-
duced the usual anodyne speeches during
Sihanouk's visit to Indonesia, it was
assumed that they had ganged up, that
they agreed on their policies towards the
coming conference in Colombo, towards
the Tengku’s project for Malaysia, and
towards the world’s problems in general.
Sihanouk, leader of a nation of five mill-
ions, was doubtless in the pocket of
Soekarno, President of a republic of
nearly 100 million people.
“Yes, Soekarno is my friend,” Sihanouk
told me firmly, “but I am certainly not
his puppet, as some suggest. This Brunei
revolt is not my business, and you can
gauge my attitude from the fact that
having visited Indonesia I am now going
to Malaya. Moreover, at the Colombo
conference I strongly disapproved of
the idea that the neutral nations should
put up detailed solutions to the Sino-
Indian border problem to New Delhi and
Peking.” (The Indonesians, on the other
hand, joined the African representatives
from the United Arab Republic and
Ghana in urging the conference to sub-
mit practical proposals for settling the
border issue.)
In fact, Soekarno and Sihanouk are
quite unlike. Soekarno is emotionally
anti-colonialist, a repetitious but effective
orator of the Nuremberg school, whose
Ministers, aping his style, talk of “the
imperialists and their puppets” and the
“continued struggle against colonialism ”
Three-quarters of Indonesia’s national in-
come is being spent on the armed forces,
which are largely equipped by the Soviet
Union. Only now, when the state of the
economy is reflected in the fact that the
black market rate of the Indonesian
rupiah has risen to 25 times the official
rate, is there talk of slowing down mili-
tary expansion.
Having won control of West New
Guinea from the Dutch, the Indonesians,
in memorable language, say that they
have no further territorial ambitions. But
the revolt in neighboring Brunei is never-
theless “an anti-colonialist struggle”
which they must support, and mean-
while there have recently been significant
references in the Indonesian Press to
“oppressive” conditions in nearby Portu-
guese Timor.
Sihanouk, on the other hand, presses
no irredentist claims and wants purely
defensive armed forces. He believes in
being neutral and not neutralist, contend-
ing that the expression “neutralist bloc”
with its aggressive implications is a con-
tradiction in terms.
Now 40 years old, but still looking
like some stock Asian cherub taking time
off from the descant pews, the Prince is
not only a voluble talker but also a
doer. Like Soekarno, he has the common
touch, but when he talks to some farmer
in the dusty square of a Cambodian
village it is a conversation about the
man's own problems—cattle tax or the
price of seed not a discussion in
pseudo-Marxist terms on imperialism or
national expansion.
Sihanouk is also known for his readi-
ness to seize a spade and set an example
—to be followed willy nilly by the Cam-
bodian Court and civil service—by doing
a day's work on some public project,
very much at the grassroot level. He
accepts aid from both world blocs and
has gone far towards modernising his
entrancing if sleepy Buddhist land in the
South-east Asia plains.
He does not always find it easy to be
neutral. He inveighs against the Ameri-
cans for reducing their already unsatis-
factory military and economic aid to
Cambodia, and for being behind her two
bigger neighbors, Thailand and South
Vietnam, both of which have made terri-
torial claims against the State they
sandwich.
“At this moment,” he admitted to me,
“I am more inclined to trust the Chinese
Communists than the Americans, who are
fobbing us off with rifles dating back to
the war of secession,, and helicopters


which are only safe when firmly on the
ground.”
He added refreshingly, however:
“Naturally, I understand that the Ameri-
cans help countries like Vietnam and
Thailand that are committed to the cause
of anti-Communism before they will help
a neutral like me. Nevertheless, that
does not alter the fact that this leaves
Cambodia at a grave disadvantage.
“The alternative is for all concerned
Powers to give an international guaran-
tee to respect Cambodia’s neutrality and
territorial integrity. I am pressing for
this, but the Americans refuse it. So, since
the Soviet bloc countries are naturally
ready to turn the situation to their advan-
tage by giving me military aid or an
international guarantee, I must think
carefully and do what is best for my
people.”
Praising Peking one day, placing a
wreath against the monument of those
who fell fighting Chinese Communists in
Malaya on the next, Sihanouk maintains
his balance by keeping one objective
steadily in view: the safety and material
welfare of Cambodia. Wide-eyed to the
dubious motives of competing suitors
from West and East, he wants to be
friends with all, yet respects one
essential truth: men may sometimes act
selflessly, but nations have only one
touchstone “What’s in it for me?”
THE PHILIPPINES ' CASE FOR
NORTH BORNEO
The heirs of the Sultan of Sulu
XTriE case for the Philippines’ claim to
North Borneo rests almost entirely
upon an agreement made in 1878
between the Sultan of Sulu (an archi-
pelago of 448 islands in the Philippines )
and “Baron de Overbeck of Hong
Kong and Alfred Dent of London as
representatives of a British Company
co-jointly.” The crux of this agreement,
originally in the Malay language, was
that the Sultan of Sulu agreed to “cede”
to the above gentlemen all rights to the
territory of the island of Borneo “com-
mencing from the Pandassan River on
the north-west coast and extending
along the whole east coast as far as the
Sibuco River in the south . . . with all
the islands within three leagues of the
coast.” In return for these rights,
granted “in perpetuity,” Baron Overbeck
and Dent (later Sir Alfred) were to pay
the Sultan of Sulu and his heirs or
successors “the sum of five thousand
dollars per annum.” Three years later
the British Government, having cleared
the articles of cession, granted a Royal
Charter to Dent’s British North Borneo
Company which remained in effect until
1946, when the territory became a
Colony.
The Government of the Philippines
claims that the intent of the Sultan of
Sulu in the agreement with Overbeck and
Dent was not to “cede” the territory,
but rather to “lease” it to the British
company. Thus, the Philippines’ Gov-
ernment feels at the present time that it
is legally justified in terminating the
lease and claiming North Borneo as its
own.
Against this questioning of a term
in a document over eighty years old,
there are impressive counters on the
British side. The most rudimentary of
these is the argument that, even if the
agreement were for a lease instead of a
cession, it was a lease granted “in
perpetuity.” And, as the British Govern-
ment has kept faith with all the financial
and other responsibilities of the original
agreement there seems no reason why
that agreement should be invalidated.
Another argument on the British side
is purely geographical. The Philippines’
Government claims all of present-day
North Borneo whereas the Sulu rivers
in the 1878 agreement cover only the
east coast, the rest being ceded by
Brunei between 1877 and 1902, and
Labuan Island not being incorporated
until 1945. Thus the Philippines’ claim
covers a large amount of territory that
was never theirs in the first place.
Finally, there is the question of
whether or not they have any right to
lodge a claim for what is, or was, the
private property of the Sultan of Sulu.
For, although the political powers of
the Sultanate are abolished as such, it
is still his descendants who hold claim
to, and receive, the annual payments.
There may be some justification in the
Philippines’ action as there has been no
clear successor since 1936, but this
seems slender beside its opposition.
Although Overbeck and Dent cer-
tainly received a bargain from the
Sultan of Sulu that was greater than it
might have been had he not been under
pressure from a Spanish expeditionary
force (which defeated him, incidentally,
thus giving Spain a temporary claim to
the territory), it is doubtful that Britain
will soon accept the Philippines’ claim
that North Borneo, be it a cession or
on lease, is theirs.
J. D.
WHEN IS A JEW
NOT A JEW?
When he is also a Christian
By JACK DAVIES
Two Israeli Cabinets have collapsed
over the thorny question of who
and what a Jew is. There are all sorts—
black, white, agnostic, moderate, ortho-
dox, and super-orthodox yet no one
had dared to settle a legal common deno-
minator for fear of tipping the scales to
one faction or another. That is, until the
recent Israeli Supreme Court decision
regarding Oswald Rufeisen (now Father
Daniel) which, if not giving a positive
answer to the question, at least says who
a Jew isn’t. For the time being, anyhow,/
he cannot be an apostate.
Rufeisen, born and bred as an Ortho-
dox Jew in Poland, was refused the right
of automatic citizenship for all home-
coming Jews granted under the 1950
Law of Return. This does not mean that
he could not have become an Israeli
citizen, but only that he would have had
to apply through the normal processes of
naturalisation open to all non-Jews
an alternative he has been fighting since
his arrival in 1959. In a four to one
decision, the Supreme Court of Israel
decreed that, as Rufeisen (or Father
Daniel) had willingly converted to the
Roman Catholic faith and become a'
Carmelite friar, he had no claim to be
recognised as a Jewish immigrant in
Israel.
This was a judgment further com-
plicated by, as presiding Justice Silberg
put it, “the sympathy and deep gratitude
which we the Jews owe the peti-
tioner, Oswald Rufeisen —the apostate."
During the war Father Daniel, then still
a Jew posing as a Silesian Christian, had
saved many other Jews during the Ger-
man occupation of Poland by warnin'
them of imminent Nazi roundups. II
would seem that, if no longer a Jew by
religion, he would at least hold a stronj
ethnic claim to automatic Israeli citizen-
ship. As he said himself prior to the|
decision, “My ethnic origin is and
always will be Jewish. I have no other
nationality. If I am not a Jew whai
am I?”
There were two strong factors behind
the Court’s ruling that the space fix
ethnic affiliation on Father Daniel
identity card should be left blank. Tlx
first is a purely legal one depending of
the fact that the Law of Return is seen
lar, a product of the Knesset rather that
of the rabbinical courts. So the Coutf
was obliged to follow the criterion use
by immigration officers that a Jew if
roughly, anyone who says he is and doe
not profess another religion. This is coin.


plicated by the fact that the applicant
may be an agnostic or just neglect to
mention his true faith. But as one judge,
Justice Berenson, stated, “I have to in-
terpret the term Jew not as I deem fit,
but the way I must assume it was
meant by those who coined it.”
Secondly, and more basically, is the
fact that it is extraordinarily difficult to
distinguish the ethnic Jew from the reli-
gious Jew. And it was on this that the
Court rested its major argument that the
admission of Father Daniel as a Jew
would somehow mean, as Justice Silberg
put it, that, “the glory and majesty of
those who died on the pyres of the
Middle Ages will fade into insignificance,
and we shall start reckoning our history
from the beginning of the emancipation
after the French Revolution.” In becom-
ing an apostate, Father Daniel had lost
the one common denominator of almost
all Jews: “we do not cut ourselves off
from our historical past and we do not
deny the heritage of our forefathers.”
Regarding this point of historical
heritage and the whole dilemma Judge
Berenson further observed: “A long time
will have to pass before the Jewish
people’s deeply ingrained feelings against
Christianity will have vanished, that
Christianity which has done so much
evil to the Jewish people and has made
our history one long story of martyr-
dom.” Judge Cohen (the single dissenter),
however, offered some basis for hope in
the observation which Judge Berenson
supported that “it is in the nature of
historical processes that times, concepts
and processes of thought and cultural
values should change, and that there
should be a constant improvement in the
ways of life and of law.”
Until then, Father Daniel will be a
man without a country under the secular
Law of Return. Still he may feel some
satisfaction in knowing that as the
judges pointed out, an apostate remains
a Jew according to religious law, al-
though under certain disabilities.
New York Newsletter
THE NEWSPAPER STRIKE
The Monkey on our Back
By GEORGE McGANN
The confirmed newspaper addicts of
this metropolis (who number virtu-
ally the entire population of up-
wards of nine millions) are now in the
most gruesome phase of a withdrawal
agony.
After more than a month of enforced
newspaperlessness the monkey of addic-
tion is still digging its claws into their
backs. As they sit in their underground
carriages racing crazily through the
subway labyrinths, or in their commuter
trains bound to and from the city, they
gaze dully ahead, staring at their fellow
victims with glazed eyes, not really
seeing them, dumbly sharing the ghastly
dullness of the monotonous journeys.
It is sheer hell, and there is no relief
in sight.
As a twitching victim of the news-
paper shakes I will yield precedence to
no fellow sufferers in the extent of my
ordeal. I arise each morning and the day
yawns endlessly ahead as I recall, with a
Pang of anguish, that “The New York
Times” is not waiting outside the front
door. Breakfast without it is a dreadful
ordeal in my home, I can tell you, and
roy loved ones fear to break the hideous
silence as I scowl into my soft-boiled
eggs.
My dog, Frenchie, has been the object
of more kicks and curses in the past
roonth than in the previous eight years
°f a once carefree existence. His hide
had better be tough. The newspaper
strike, which is the source of all our
miseries, may well run another month,
or even two, before it is settled and we
readers are restored to what passes for
normal health, sanity and well-being in
this city.
The industrial dispute which has
thrown such a blight over all our lives
is a rather complex one, as most strikes
are these days.
The rich and powerful International
Typographers’ Union, a so-called “father
and son” organisation of high-salaried
printers who carefully restrict their
membership, struck against four New
York newspapers for still higher wages
and so-called fringe benefits, including a
shorter work week.
Acting according to pre-arrangement,
the other five metropolitan newspapers
promptly shut down out of sympathy
for their embattled fellow members of
the Publishers’ Association. In effect,
then, the present blackout resulted from
both a strike and a lockout.
The typographers, however, are seek-
ing not only more money and more
leisure but a return to their former pre-
eminent role in fixing working conditions
for the entire newspaper industry.
For many years this elite group could
force the publishers into agreements
highly favorable to the ITU. But recently
the Newspaper Guild, dominated by the
editorial workers, has been setting the
pace in the industry and forcing the
printers to follow suit.
New leadership in the ITU, ambitious,
determined, and backed by a tremendous
war chest of strike funds, is now making
an all-out effort to overshadow the Guild
and force the publishers to accept a
highly unpalatable contract..
The union leaders boast that they are
prepared to stay out for “months more,”
if need be. It might be of some interest
to Australian newspaper workers to note
that the striking ITU members are re-
ceiving strike pay of 150 dollars a
week from their well-filled treasury, and
that the payments are not subject to tax.
Incidentally, there is more than a
slight chance that three of New York’s
newspapers the “Mirror,” the “Post”
and the “Herald-Tribune”—which have
been in financial difficulties, may never
re-appear on the streets if the strike
goes on long enough. The ITU leader-
ship is apparently willing to risk this
disaster in its bid for primacy.
The publishers have offered the Typo-
graphers’ Union about one-third of the
total increases demanded, and contend
that any further substantial approach to
the position is economically unfeasible.
They too, have spoken of “a month or
more” of further deadlock.
Aside from the traumatic effects of
the newspaper blackout on New York’s
millions of readers, the economic con-
sequences have been disastrous. The
strike started in early December, by
design, immediately before the Christ-
mas buying rush, when newspapers or-
dinarily carry many pages of advertising
by department stores and other retail
establishments.
Christmas business was off by an
estimated five per cent, or a total of
15,000,000 dollars, the city’s retailers
estimated, as a result of the lack of
newspaper advertising facilities. The
bigger stores, such as Macy’s and Saks,
resorted to stepped-up television and
radio commercials, but in this area, as
in others, notably news coverage, these
media proved woefully inferior to the
daily newspapers.
Retail sales are by no means the only
losses incurred during the strike. The
city’s theatres and related businesses,
including hotels, restaurants and bars,
have been badly affected. New plays ar-
riving on Broadway were not reviewed,
so the public as a whole were unaware
of their existence.
Sports events suffered similarly from
lack of newspaper coverage.
The stock market reflected the general
gloom. Share prices not only dropped,
but trading was well off. Without the
daily stock market tables, printed only
in the newspapers, investors were unable
to make decisions about buying and sell-
ing, and did neither.


HELPING
BUSINESS*
IN A«
.CHANGING'
WORLDS
1
/
¥
■
>•1
muii
W
¥
Change creates growth and strength. This is
the experience of the C.B.C. since it opened for
business in 1834.
Men of enterprise, ready to meet the challenge
of the future, will find the C.B.C. provides construc-
tive services to help them and that it is ready to
share its knowledge and experience with them.
The manager of your nearest C.B.C. branch will
be glad to talk things over with you. Call and see him.
c
k
Employers seeking help could not find
workers and vice versa without
the classified advertisements.
Undertakers and florists were also
complaining. Without the customary
obituary notices friends and acquain-
tances had no way of knowing of a
death. Relatives ordered less sumptuous
caskets and fewer flowers were sent to
the bereaved.
Mothers of debutantes were chagrined
at the thought that, without the society
pages, no one except the guests would
ever know of daughter’s expensive com-
ing-out party. Liquor dealers also
noted a decline in champagne sales, as
many mothers deliberately restricted the
size of the parties, knowing the names
would never see the light of print.
Those who follow the Winchells and
other gossip columnists avidly were at a
loss to know who was romancing whom
and who was suing whom for divorce.
TV and radio tried valiantly to step
into the breach, with notably unsatis-
factory effect. Expanded news program-
mes were broadcast at frequent intervals
throughout the day and night, particu-
larly from radio stations.
The “New York Times” and other
newspapers placed their featured writers
on TV, in many cases to the dis-
advantage of both the writer and the
viewer. James Reston, of the “Times,”
has a deservedly high reputation as a
Washington columnist, but as a tele-
vision personality he is something else
again. To be blunt, Reston reading his
own stuff before a camera is a dreadful
bore.
And listening and looking at news is
something very much different to read-
ing it, as we unhappy New Yorkers have
found out. You have to be there at the
precise moment the broadcast is on the
air, and you have to give it your un-
divided attention.
You can’t take it away with you and
absorb it at your leisure or in the subway
or in the dentist's waiting room. The
bland, opinionless presentation of news
on radio and TV leaves the viewer sin-
gularly blank of opinions.
To fill the dreadful void in their daily
lives New Yorkers have resorted to
bizarre substitutes for newspapers, which
burgeoned on the news-stands when the
major dailies disappeared.
Offset publications such as the "Brook-
lyn Daily,” a neighborhood paper with a
small circulation, boosted its production
to a quarter million or so and sold well
at first until the readers woke up to
the grim fact that the “Brooklyn Daily”
had only the look, not the substance, of
a metropolitan newspaper.
Those multi-lingual New Yorkers who
can read Yiddish, Spanish, Italian and
other languages, even Arabic, were able
to keep abreast of the news with the
Jewish “Daily Forward”, “11 Progresso,”
and the other foreign-language dailies
which flourish in this town.
The rest of us have come to depend
on the “Philadelphia Inquirer” or the
“Boston Herald” or even the “Trenton
News,” which have increased produc-
tion in order to service this city’s news-
stands — at triple their regular price.
But these publications, good as they
may be in some cases, are somebody
else's newspapers, not ours. It makes all
the difference.
As a working journalist I have been
cheered by the way all the people I
meet complain about the loss of their
favorite reading matter. From cab-
drivers thwarted by the lack of form
charts on the horses to intellectual types
kept in ignorance of the new books and
plays, the public at large is in a state
of raging frustration.
It’s a comfort to know that news-
papers will always be with us, despite
TV. But it’s a small comfort right now.
My dog had better make himself scarce
at breakfast time.


letters
to the
editor
ANATOMY OF A FELLOW
TRAVELLER
Sir,
I dislike wrangling with women,
especially in public, but in this case I
must. Mrs Batterham writes (Bulletin,
December 29) that the secret ballot
exists, inter alia, in order that Fellow
Travellers may be saved from “persecu-
tion.” Two points: what persecution?
Secondly, is this not an admission of
the very cowardly double-dealing of
Fellow Travellers to which I was re-
ferring? “Lodge your surreptitious vote
under a system provided by the
democracy you wish to destroy, while
spending the rest of your life lying and
dissembling in order not to be incon-
venienced”—is this the motto of Fellow
Travellers?
Mrs Batterham asks how many
Liberals would have “the courage of
their convictions” if facing the (un-
known to me) persecutions Fellow
Travellers pretend are always lurking
around the corner. Since I haven’t the
faintest idea what these persecutions are
(ineligibility for employment in the
Security Service perhaps?), I cannot
answer her question. But I do know
that under the system Fellow Travellers
covertly support, opponents of the
regime are degraded as human beings,
made to confess publicly to crimes they
could never have committed, and then
shot in the head.
I do know that the Vietcong, which
Fellow Travellers covertly support, is
decapitating young women. I have the
photographs before me now. In view of
this, does Mrs Batterham seriously expect
anyone other than Fellow Travellers
and Communists to accept this guff
about “persecution” from the secret
friends of terrorism?
In order to avoid the otherwise in-
evitable canard, may I say that I am
imputing no political motives of any
kind to Mrs Batterham herself. She may
be a Liberal intellectual, for all I know.
But I should like to insist—which of
course I rightly can't in this democratic
country that she show evidence of
persecution of those who declare them-
selves Communists. I have respect for
the guts of men like Judah Waten who
move openly in the intellectual world
saying: “Here 1 am, a Communist.” I
am quite unable to admire those who
want it both ways: the Fellow Travellers
who have not been explicitly instructed
by the Party to “go underground”; the
people who will welcome the Asian
bayonets (if Communism wins) or who
will say (if Communism loses) “L never
stuck my neck out. I’m just a good
liberal democrat at heart.” There is a
decently scathing Australian summing
up of such people’s attitude: “Heads 1
win, tails you lose.”
GEOFFREY FAIRBAIRN
Canberra.
SOVIET ANTI SEMITISM
Sir,
To “prove” that Soviet Jews are
persecuted, Mr Leibler (Bulletin, Sep-
tember 29) points to trials at which
Jews among others were penalised for
crimes. I would advise Mr Leibler to
take a peep at the Fundamentals of the
Criminal Law Procedure of the USSR.
Article 4 states that “justice in the
USSR is dispensed on the basis of the
equality of all citizens in the eyes of
the law and the court, regardless of
social standing, property, office, nation-
ality, race or religion.”
Mr Leibler claims that the Jewish
religion is placed in worse conditions
in the USSR than other faiths and that
Jewish believers are even prohibited to
bake or eat matzos during Passover.
When I told Yeguda-Leib Levin, Mos-
cow’s Chief Rabbi, about that, he said:
“The Australian gentleman evidently
has a very hazy idea on what is going on
here. The Jewish religion has here the
same rights as other faiths. To my
knowledge there are 140 synagogues in
the USSR. No one obstructs our wor-
ship. At the central synagogue in Mos-
cow rites proceed normally and in con-
formity with the faith.
“A few words about matzos. No one
forbids Jewish believers to bake it. On
the contrary, until lately it was sold in
state-run shops. However, last spring,
a short while before Passover, the state
bakery that made matzos was closed
down for repairs. That is why there was
no matzos in the shops. However,
members of the congregation baked it
at home and nobody complained of not
having any matzos at the time of the
previous Passover.
“As for the seminary, it is quite true
that there are not many rabbinical
students there. The thing, however, is
that in the USSR, where the over-
whelming majority of the population
are non-religious, the number of students
depends on the fact that it is not so
simple, unfortunately, to find a Jewish
boy who would like to become a rabbi
or shohet.
“I can’t understand how they got it
into their heads in Australia that the
Soviet Jewish congregation is forbidden
to have contacts with members of the
Jewish faith in other countries. Very
many foreigners come to our synagogue.
I myself often meet rabbis from dif-
ferent countries.”
Rabbi Levin concluded by saying:
“Those who tell untruths about our
life are doing a very nasty thing.”
SAMUEL ROZIN
Correspondent,
Novosti Press Agency (APN)
Pushkin Square, Moscow.
WILLIAM LENNON’S KNEE
Sir,
Mr Austin Lennon’s suggestion that
in my article on Mr Clem Lack’s “Three
Decades of Queensland Politics” I de-
parted from the principles of care and
exactitude laid down by myself by
“embellishing Mr Lack’s embellish-
ments” is hardly sound in the light of
the facts. His chief complaint seems to
be that I gave “unfortunately no
authority ... for the degree of pain
suffered” by Lieutenant-Governor Wil-
liam Lennon when he returned “limping
slightly”, but (as I wrote) “not too pain-
fully,” after an “injured knee” had
taken him abroad to Tweed Heads at
the right moment to relieve him of the
Peed personally to summon himself as
his “right trusty and well-beloved” to
the presidency of the Legislative
Council.
I have, in fact, nowhere departed
from my principles in the article. My
authority for the degree of pain suffered
by William Lennon was the right trusty
William Lennon himself. Having
occasion to deliver some official papers
to him, I asked most courteously after
his injury and was assured that the pain
had gone but that the joint was still
weak.
As for William Lennon’s resignation,
both Mr Lack and myself are accurate.
While the salary was paid, neither age
nor health prevented William Lennon
from drawing it. When it ceased he
prepared to resign on completion of the
current year.
M. H. ELLIS
Cremorne, NSW.
Sir,
The obligation to be sure of their facts
is not confined to historians. It applies
also to correspondents who write letters
to newspapers. Austin Lennon (Bul-
letin, December 29) is neither just nor
accurate in accusing me of “embellishing”
references in “Three Decades of Queens-
land History” to Lieutenant-Governor
William Lennon’s sore knee. I did not
“embellish” and I did not assume that
William Lennon used a sore knee “as an
excuse to vacate Brisbane.” The “as-
sumption” and “embellishment” of
which Mr Lennon complains was made
by the late Mr C. E. Bernays in his “Our
Seventh Political Decade”, from which
I quoted — without comment — the
relevant extract, citing the page on
which it appeared. The statement that
William Lennon “continued to be Lieu-
tenant-Governor, doing nothing what-
ever for the salary . . .” was Mr Ellis’s


comment, not mine. In “Three Decades”
the facts were presented in “a just setting
. . . unenhanced and also unblemished by
too much sunlight or obscured by too
much propaganda fog or prejudice.” The
favourable reviews, published in three
States, are evidence that the book was
accepted as an objective and impartial
work.
CLAM LACK
Brisbane
FEEDING CHINESE TROOPS
Sir,
The swift and generous response of
our Government to India’s appeal for
arms has been highly appreciated here.
Prime Minister Nehru has expressed his
nation's thanks publicly on more than
one occasion. But recent talk of further
wheat sales to Communist China seems
a strange contradiction.
The strongest argument against any
further such sales would seem to be the
statement issued earlier in the year from
Rome by the United Nations Food and
Agriculture Organisation (FAO). As
published in the “Hong Kong Tiger
Standard" (25.6.62), the report alleged
that the large amounts of Canadian and
Australian wheat imported into China
were in fact apparently going mostly to
China's armed forces.
At the time many people advanced
“humanitarian” and even “Christian”
motives for these sales, thinking no doubt
that the wheat was going to feed the
starving millions of China. One might
well ask whether these same altruistic
motives would operate were we not get-
ting a good price for our wheat and also
finding a convenient solution for our
excess grain.
Surely now is the time for our Govern-
ment and the Wheat Board to review the
policy of selling wheat to China. In this,
India’s greatest hour of peril, we should
not only aid her militarily to our utmost
but we should desist from feeding the
troops of the aggressor who has invaded
her land.
C. B. MAYOR
Kerala (India).
THE CURRIE AFFAIR
Sir,
My attention has been drawn to your
article on the “Currie Case” (Bulletin,
December 15). May I suggest that the
concluding paragraphs were a little too
hot for Tasmanian palates especially for
those of us in the North who know the
local situation.
Your correspondent sought to infer
that Labor was suffering at the polls in
“industrialised Launceston” since the
last Federal elections. If this is so the
cases quoted hardly prove his point.
In the Legislative Council poll held
the Saturday after the Federal elections
Norm Laurence did well considering
that the seat has never been held by
Labor and was vacated on this occasion
by lohn Orchard so that he could con-
test, unsuccessfully, the Senate election
as a Liberal candidate. The Upper
House franchise is mainly a property
one and the Labor Party does not
expect to win seats easily.
The third case was the unkindest cut
of all. After promoting me to the
leadership of the Labor municipal
team you point out that I was last in
a field of six. I was not the leader of
the team —we ran simply as a team.
That I ran last I will not deny but if
this is to be interpreted as a blow to
Labor a few more facts should be con-
sidered.
Mainland readers will probably find
it hard to believe that municipal elec-
tions in Tasmania are on a property
franchise with multiple voting according
to the annual value of the property of
the owner or occupier. It is possible for
the spouse of an owner or occupier to
get on the roll but the majority are not.
Elections are held in most places on a
week day. In Launceston the range of
votes available to a single voter was
from one to 28. In fact most voters are
in the 1 to 4 range. The vote is a “block”
or “multiple preferential” system which
meant that in the Launceston vote each
1, 2 and 3 was given equal weight.
You may appreciate now why Labor
has never put up a municipal team
before in Tasmania.
We were opposed to a team con-
sisting of Dr Turnbull and Aid. Sim
Crawcour, who were retiring aldermen,
and Brendan Lyons, a son of the former
Prime Minister. The three successful
candidates averaged just under 9000
votes and we averaged just under 6000.
The closeness of the three Labor can-
didates and the fact that in six of
the 12 booths a Labor man headed the
poll indicates that Launceston did not
shun Labor’s intrusion into what had
become the preserve of the “city block.”
JAMES T. C. BRASSIL
Launceston (Tasmania).
Sir,
The motion pending in the Port Huon
branch of the Waterside Workers’ Fed-
eration—that N. A. Currie take legal
action against Austin Stephens will
now almost certainly be dropped by the
branch. Huon Valley unionists report
that J. H. O’Neill, Hobart Trades Hall
Council Secretary, visited the Huon fol-
lowing Austin Stephens’ public meeting
at Franklin. Since then, the motion for
legal action by N. A. Currie against
Austin Stephens has become most un-
popular and instead an unofficial in-
vestigation has been ordered into the
leakage of news to the Press. The Port
Huon branch had previously requested
J. H. O’Neill, as Trades Hall Council
Secretary, to make representations on
their behalf for Waterside Workers’
Federation loading of paper pulp at the
new Geeveston mill, and not loading by
any other body, when exporting becomes
a reality. Watersiders are now afraid that
O'Neill will “run dead” on their repre-
sentations if they do not drop the motion
concerning N. A. Currie.
Several unionists, other than W.W.F.
men, say they regard this as political
blackmail of the worst possible type,
because Huon Valley watersiders are
employed on a temporary seasonal basis,
and the prospect of the paper pulp is a
very welcome and necessary source of
employment. The Port Eluon men will
say absolutely nothing on the issue when
asked, because they have their liveli-
hood and that of their families to con-
sider, and it is believed they have now
dropped the Currie motion to protect
their jobs and the waterfront industry.
It is now reported that other unions
will pursue the Currie affair because a
how-to-vote ticket which N. A. Currie
issued at the Launceston Trades Hall
Council elections has reached the hands
of right-wing ALP members. This how-
to-vote ticket concerned candidates for
the Executive Committee of the Trades
Hall Council and on it Mr Currie ad-
vocated support for avowed Communists
before the ALP. The Labor Party Con-
stitution and Rules state: “No person,
who, on any occasion, espouses the cause
of Communism, may become or remain
a member of the Party” (Rule 6(v)). Sev-
eral ALP delegates are most hostile and,
despite Mr O'Neill's feelings, intend
pursuing the matter further. They con-
sider that Mr Currie’s ticket not only
breaks ALP rules and supports Com-
munists, but that there is not even one
good industrial consideration to back his
ticket, because both the Communists
have not the responsible position in the
industrial movement that the union sec-
retaries have whom Mr Currie placed
at the bottom of his ticket.
Unionists regard his action, and his
unsatisfactory performance over Austin
Stephens’ charges, as unworthy of ALP
membership, much less as being the
role expected of an ACTU Interstate
Executive member and of the Presi-
dent of a Trades Hall Council.
L. HORTEN
Colebrook (Tasmania).
A SOUR NOTE
Sir,
Your article “A Sour Note to the
Games'”, p. 33 of your issue of De-
cember 8, sounds unnecessarily de-
pressed. I seem to remember the English
Press, at the Cardiff Games, harping in
a similar way on the number of Gold
Medals won by England, rather than
lauding the individual performances.
At least Great Britain sends three
teams, England, Scotland and Wales
(have I omitted Northern Ireland?). One
remedy would be to have State teams
entering. This would have made the
rowing, at any rate, even more exciting,
and would have spread the honours.
Perhaps some keen statistician could
work out for us what would have hap-
pened if the recent Australian team at
Perth had competed on behalf of their
States. I realise he will have to do some
guessing about relay races.
W. F. M. CLEMENS
Toorak (Victoria).
P.S.: I hope the States all have
national tunes!


REV IEWS
ART
MELBOURNE'S ART WORLD INVADED
fTiHERE were more exhibitions of paint-
ing in Melbourne in 1962 than any
one person could reasonably absorb.
Painters and galleries proliferated and
prices fattened. Melbourne is now enjoy-
ing the boom anticipated over recent
years by the successes of its well-
established painters.
Inevitably businesslike work is be-
coming harder to separate from good
work. The pattern of success is by no
means consistent. According to reports,
Albert Tucker ran up £IO,OOO before
cocktails at Australian Galleries a
success which could be attributed to
name-buying or good selling techniques
as well as to the quality of the painting.
On the other hand the young and com-
paratively unknown Andrew Sibley sold
very well. But better painters than both
of these did poorly. While regular buyers
show a good deal of discrimination,
they do not, any more than critics,
dealers or judges, seem to have estab-
lished a sound working standard of ex-
cellence.
Perhaps an important factor in a
settling down of standards will prove to
be the greater interchange between
States. The former distinction between a
figurative Melbourne and an abstract
Sydney has almost faded completely
with the widespread exhibiting of inter-
state painters in Melbourne, the expatria-
tion of many of the commanding figura-
tive painters and the trend among
younger painters to take little notice of
the distinction. Some of the best exhibi-
tions in Melbourne during the year were
by interstate painters.
No doubt it was necessary, but none
the less unfortunate, that so much
painting in recent years has been talked
about in terms like figurative and non-
figurative. It was especially surprising to
see during the year the virulence with
which so many still attacked one another
°n the point in the columns of “The
Age . By now the merits of the paintings
should have buried the issue, and it is
fairly clear that those who want to keep
it alive are as much interested in the
fruits of the art as they are in its truths.
At its best the figurative argument has
the merit of keeping art in touch with
the visible world, with people and with
human feeling. In their various ways
Perceval, Tucker, Laycock, Counihan,
Sibley, Molvig and others gave insights
into the inexhaustible sources of beauty,
grandeur’ and despair that spring from
nature and men.
Yet the reverse of the argument, that
non-figuration is barren, does not hold
ground against the evidence. However
much anyone may want to resist the
establishment of an art whose prime in-
terest is in its own formal values, and
an art therefore which makes only
general appeals to emotion, and oblique
references to the world about us, it must
be admitted that the best painting shown
in 1962 was largely non-figurative.
To my mind the best exhibition by a
Melbourne painter this year was George
Johnson's, which was not as it happens
very successful, either in Melbourne or
in Sydney. Perhaps many find him too
austere — he abhors space-filling and
loves space modulation—and some find
his characteristic zigzag line repetitious.
For years he has devoted himself to an
infinitely patient exploration of line and
space which at first gave his work a
rigid geometric quality, but which has
lately led to the development of a very
flexible and satisfying symbol.
Although his style is quite uncommon,
Johnson’s progress is perhaps typical of
a general trend. Clear symbolic mean-
ings are beginning to emerge from the
formal preoccupations. In his case
images of life and growth are develop-
ing. In another, like Rapotec, the former
essays in tension, line and circle, are
being replaced by more direct references
to landscape themes, or in one case
religious themes, without any change in
style or any deterioration of formal
values. The movement then is back
towards the world via the disciplines of
pure abstraction.
Asa result, the young painters are apt
to be hard to classify. The difficulty of
making labels stick was obvious in the
Transfield Prize, where “modern” seemed
to be the only operative word in the
subject “Modern Figure Painting”. The
good that comes from the confusion is
an increase in freedom of style for the
painter. Galleries, in 1962, abounded in
diverse talents, the majority very com-
petent, a few exceptional. Among the
very young John Sen bergs showed
enormous promise. Charles Reddington's
rich, soft abstractions put South Aus-
tralia on the map, while Ostoja made it
look positively avant garde with his bold
and challenging ideograms.
Sculpture, for a change, was well-
represented, outstandingly by Clem
Meadmore, competently by Stephen
Walker, Max Lyle and Inge King. We
may be getting near the time when we
can manage some sort of a prize for
sculpture.
BILL HANNAN
ART
NOLAN... ESSENTIALLY PUZZLING
Nolan exhibition. Skinner Gallery,
Perth.
Nolan exhibition and the splendid
Collings-Qantas film on Nolan made
a most memorable impression in Perth.
Every critic should have the word
“genius” in his vocabulary, but he
shouldn’t take it out often. It should be
saved for occasions like this. The 29
paintings fell into two groups, large oils
and small dye - or - ink - on - paper com-
positions: the latter were mostly in the
style of the illustrations to Randolph
Stow’s “Outrider,” and some of these
were in fact included in the exhibition.
Nolan’s paintings defy stylistic classi-
fication. “Surrealist” will not do, nor
will “primitive”, and the painterly tech-
nique is as unclassifiable as the style.
The fluency and innerrancy of Nolan’s
technique were marvellously displayed
in the film, when a few dots and lines
placed exactly to relieve a space between
large shapes in the foreground, became
under one’s eyes a group of palms on
the horizon.
This is perhaps the essence of Nolan’s
visual style: that the conventionally


receding planes of landscape can be
read as receding, or as super-imposed
patterns on a single surface and the
speed with which Nolan apparently
builds up a painting may have some-
thing to do with this effect. In the
calligraphic gesture the painter an-
nihilates for a moment the recession of
planes, and fixes his attention on the
simple flat surface of the canvas or
paper: the pattern is examined through
the wrong end of the binoculars, con-
centrated by the diminishing lenses.
Once the pattern on a single plane is
right, then and only then is the reading
of successive planes reintroduced. The
three-dimensional ambiguity of Nolan's
surfaces suggests the Fraser spiral,
which can be seen as flat or conical.
The problem of Nolan’s visual planes is
not of course solved by the example, tut
it will help to define the phenomenon.
The mythical motifs of the new oils
are very strange indeed: Burke and
Wills, naked as heroes and ugly as 19th
century explorers, are impossibly bal-
anced on the rear ends of camels - and
in one case the camel is as precariously
perched on a cliff path. This mytholo-
gical idiom goes beyond the primitivism
of the early Ned Kelly series to a kind
of surrealism; the dream predominates
but the nightmare threatens. The easiest
and possibly most superficial explanation
of these mythical figures is in terms of a
love-hate relationship between the Artist
and his Country and its Past.
The nightmare of “Mrs Fraser” has
its sequel in the splendid but Baconianly
horrifying “One-Armed Convict.” This
work is tremendously powerful, and
one ought a priori to be shrill, but is not.
The scream is beyond the range of our
ears, and we accept without any sense
of oddity the soft texture of the sky
behind this grotesque and horrifying
figure. The jump has the look of
clumsiness and assurance that we
associate with pantomime: and this
appalling figure combines both comedy
and tragedy—speaking to the levels of
the mind where such distinctions no
longer matter.
I feel a great sense of personal obliga-
tion to Nolan, his landscapes in the
University of WA Collection provided
my first reconciliation to the barren
wastes of the Flat Continent, and I have
difficulty in adjusting from these can-
vases to the more emotionally complex
ones, which obviously attempt to
populate the landscape with mythical
heroes, tragic or beyond tragedy, despite
the essentially comic age of the
theogany. Nolan seems to be haunted by
Jarry’s view of the 19th century as
absurd, and one is not sure whether it is
Celtic wit or pure pietas that makes him
strive, so ambiguously, to render the
primal scene of his nation more essen-
tially heroic.
“Myths are built up not where men love
but where
They feel most ill at ease, Our Fables
reach
Back to the places where our hearts
could break.”
Elizabeth Jennings.
Nolan’s works bear unequivocal testi-
mony to his genius: but they are un-
equivocal only in this. Their surfaces,
their intentions, and their mythical
content remain essentially puzzling. The
non-Celt will never understand and
this has led to innumerable misbegotten
Ph.Ds on Joyce that when an Irish-
man is obviously “codding” that is when
he is trying to be serious.
PATRICK HUTCHINGS
THEATRE
A WASTE OF SPLENDID RESOURCES
Oather more than 50 plays were pre-
* sented professionally or near-pro-
fessionally in Melbourne during 1962,
and there were in addition a dozen or
so shows of a quasi-dramatic kind
(revues, dance programmes, etc.), and
a large number of productions by
student and other amateur groups. As
usual the bulk of the work was done by
two companies: the St Martin’s Theatre
Company (formerly the Little Theatre)
which presented 13 plays; and the
Union Theatre Repertory Company
(operating under the auspices of the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust) which pre-
sented 12 including six written by Aus-
tralians. A very important newcomer
was the Emerald Hill Theatre Com-
pany, which presented six plays in its
new theatre in South Melbourne,
The general level of achievement, in
production, acting and design, was prob-
ably the highest it has ever been,
Hardly one of the year’s productions
was a clear failure in terms of its own
pretensions, and several of them were
very good by any standard at all. Among
those that I thought particularly im-
pressive were Wal Cherry’s lively and
humane productions of ‘'The Would-Be
Gentleman” and “The Quare Fellow” at
Emerald Hill; Irene Mitchell’s affection-
ate treatment of Chayefsky’s “The
Tenth Man” at St Martin’s; John
Young’s bravura version of “The Ballad
of Angel’s Alley” for the Union; and
the delightfully lucid account by Peter
Batey of Shaw’s “You Never Can Tell”
also for the Union.
There were some splendid importa-
tions, the finest of all being Alvin Ailey’s
American Dance Theatre which had a
short season early in the year. Luisillo’s
return was another delight. Among the
notable acting performances were those of
Joan McArthur in “The Aspern Papers,”
Googie Withers in “Woman in a Dress-
ing-Gown”, Jeannie James in “The Doll’s
House”, Patricia Kennedy in “Death of
a Salesman”, Edward Hepple in “Ross”;
and, among the visitors, Bronia Stefan in
“The Miracle Worker”, Alexander Arch-
dale in “Saint Joan”, and Robert Speaight
in “A Man For All Seasons”. George
Whaley was impressive in everything he
did at Emerald Hill. Both St Martin's
and the Union were fortunate to have
the services throughout the year of bril-
liant designers in John Truseott and
Anne Fraser respectively; Richard Prins
also did excellent work at the Union;
and I find myself remembering Tom de
Kessler’s sets as a particularly charming
feature of “The School for Scandal" at
the Muse Theatre Club.
Clearly, theatre is flourishing in Mel-
bourne, and 1962 was a year of respec-
table achievement. Nevertheless it was
also, in many ways rather a depressing
year. While most of the plays seen were
at least reasonably well done many would
never have been missed if they had not
been done at all and few were so very
good as to arouse anything much stronger
than a feeling of gratitude for small
mercies. Of the 50 or so plays only about
a dozen were of more than passing in-
terest.
It seems that people for whom atten-
dance at the theatre is a mere social reflex
continue to make up the bulk of out
audiences and that the companies,
generally speaking, are content to pander
to them. St Martin's in particular played;
it even safer than usual in 1962 -j
“Hedda Gabler” was its only offering of
any real stature. The Union showed i
little more enterprise and is to be com- :
mended for making a success of tot
Australian season. But this w'as not really
much of an adventure, since none of thf
plays was new. Apart from “You Neva
Can Tell”, the only clearly first-rate plai
presented by our leading company wa
“Macbeth”, a school text. Two cheer 1
for the Union. (By far the best record o:-
the year was that of Emerald Hill whicl
presented six decent plays and no non.
sense. Worthwhile things were also don?
by Alan Money at the Muse Theatrf
Club and by Lola Russell wherever slf
could find a stage.)
While production and acting standard
were high it would be foolish to prefer
that they were really high enough, q
saw little incompetent work but even 14


that was inspired. There is always the
danger in times when the theatre is pros-
pering that the bad kind of professiona-
lism will develop the “old Pro” men-
tality prosaic in its approach complacent
about craftsmanship contemptuous of
the very idea of artistry. The danger is
particularly acute in a company like the
Union which operates on the English
repertory system and so tends to over-
work and type its members and to under-
rehearse its plays. It would not be fair
to say that the Union has shown many
signs of this kind of trouble but there
have been some Stewart Weller for
example seems to me an excellent actor
who is currently very stale perhaps be-
cause he has had so little to challenge
him recently.
There were some very good things and
there are some signs of light; but it re-
mains true to say that Melbourne theatre,
by and large was an essentially trivial
affair in 1962. Its outstanding characte-
ristic was the continued waste of splendid
resources on frivolous purposes. No
cheers for this.
JAMES MURPHY
TEDIOUS FARCE
The Brides of March. John Chapman.
St. Martin’s Theatre. Melbourne.
The Good Ship Walter Raleigh. Liver-
more and Eddey. Union Theatre.
Melbourne.
‘LPhe Brides of March” is a tedious
farce, likely to be tolerable
only to those who regard “See How They
Run” as the master-work of the modern
theatre. The level of the humor may be
accurately gauged from the title. The
performance is at a good amateur
standard, lifted somewhat in a few places
by Denzil Howsen and Michael Duf-
field. It is very saddening to see people
as talented as Mr Duffield and producer
Irene Mitchell wasting their time on
such nonsense.
IJaving concluded its 1962 season with
a bushwhacker farce, the Union
Theatre Repertory Company begins the
new year with a “nautical romp with
music,” also locally written. It is a fair-
enough show in its own terms—harmless,
mildly funny here and there. But it begins
to look as though these are the terms the
company finds itself happiest with—
comedy without bite, without contact
with life, without point. This is a pity.
There was a good deal of insecurity in
the first-night performance, but the pro-
duction will probably have settled down
by now. Patsy King, Brian Hannon and
Jeffrey Hodgson are amusing. Unless
you’re sick to death of holiday shows by
now, you’ll find this as good as most.
J. M.
TELEVISION
INSTANT DISLIKE
About 25 years ago the ABC used to
have a Man In The Street, with
microphone, stopping people and asking
them such questions as, “What do you
think of Mussolini?” and “Do men or
women have the better life?” Since then,
and probably before, there have been
many attempts to create interesting or
entertaining radio and television mate-
rial from the candid microphone and
camera.
One of the most successful in radio
was Keith Smith’s “A Word From Child-
ren”, also on ABC radio. Like MITS it
had one great (but not everlasting) virtue,
novelty. When Smith tried it in com-
mercial radio, as the Pied Piper, it
quickly became stale. Now Smith is
trying his gimmick in television, with a
show called “Instant People”, sponsored
naturally enough by the authors of the
43 beans story.
In the first show Smith proved that
he is not a magnetic television persona-
lity, nor a man with sense enough to
realise it and be more self-effacing. Many
of his people showed only an instant dis-
like of having a microphone shoved at
them, with such a fatuous question, in
these times, as “Do men or women
have a better life?”
“Instant People” opened with an air
of cuteness, as the camera recorded a
round of sour faces with the commen-
tary, “Happy Sydney-ites, gay, carefree,
always smiling.” Mr Smith’s first cute
question followed, as already quoted,
with some words and pictures that should
help to fill the law lists. One gentleman,
for instance, was described by his visible
and identifiable wife as “. . . a beauty,
he knows an easier way to get along than
working keeps me working, though.”
For the next ten minutes we visited
Kings Cross, where Smith proposed to
show us how people used their hands
when talking, and then asked a succes-
sion of them to describe a spiral stair-
case. Piling on the cuteness, he showed
some more of the denizens a “modern”
painting supposedly created by him with
the aid of children’s fingers and cats’
paws, and a rag. Obviously we were
about to see “modern” art debunked, but
unfortunately the “art” was as modern
as the can-can,,and nine of ten Kings
Cross people refused to be tricked into
praising it, even one cute little bit.
Smith borrowed his finale from
Tommy Hanlon, too, and proceeded to
harrow us with the sight of some good
people being overcome at the news that
they had won a lottery. One woman
kissed Smith, and others cried, and
choked, and our compere hovered over
them all like a bird of prey.
In my view, “Instant People” was no
instant success. It lacked the kind of
hammy old heart and geniality required
to make a show of its kind succeed.
FRANK ROBERTS
JAZZ
NOT A WORRY IN THE WORLD
17th Australian Jazz Convention
Sydney.
were a number of groups at this
convention; Graeme Bell's, Dick
Hughes’, Paul Martin's Slew-Foot Five, a
pick-up group led by Jim Loughnan and
Graeme Spedding (there may have been
more I was unable to hear every con-
cert), but there were but three groups I
would count indelibly memorable. The
first of these, The Red Onion Jazz Band,
was so for reasons of jazz content and
approach more than for musical distinc-
tion. The band is composed of very
young men from Melbourne who show
great skill for players of only two years’
experience.
The second and most memorable
group was that which included Ken
Colyer and a number of top Sydney
traditionalists and appeared only once,
on Wednesday night. With this group as
with no other Colyer worked superbly.
He played with a grace and rhythmic
suppleness not heard since George Mit-
chell and Natty Dominique. Colyer is
an important musician because, again,
he has taken a traditional way of playing
and re-created it in a style that suits his
own temperament.
The third band that swung totally was
the Riverside Jazz Group from Perth.
This group works in a white Chicagoan
style, has been obviously influenced by
Chris Barber, but again has a stylistic
completeness that is all its own. Supre-
mely musical, with the freshest ensemble
sound of any Australian band, the group
ably deserved the distinction of winning
the Original Tune Competition.
The best jazz, the “Ultimate” swing-
ing took place, not in the reverbe-
rating Railway Institute, but afterhours
in the better acoustics of The Cellar,
where Bob Barnard, John Costello, King
Fisher, Ken Herron, Brett Lockyer, Dick
Hughes, Colin Nolan, Ron Webber, John
Bartlett and a few others made jazz with
not a worry in the world as to whether
it was “Trad” or not.
ADRIAN RAWLINS


POETRY
On the Highway
It’s a clock,
as if a clock’s face
hastened its metal that nothing could redeem,
save its own ticking.
You could not point it
to a precise hour—
say, half-past doom
whose mainspring’s wound up by eternity;
it’s the speedometer,
the curve of the unwinding highway.
My small car, turning,
buffets the wind
blown gravely over the memorial grass
of the crematorium,
rising to reach the overpass
where, daily still, my mortal minutes ride.
I see the stars divide,
plunging in pairs,
oncoming headlamps
hovering, descending:
twin princes of air
speeding in shining portholes sheathed with tin—-
incarnations,
if we knew a meaning.
ALEXANDER CRAIG
Suburban Sonnet
She practises a fugue, though it can matter
to no one now if she plays well or not;
close by her on the floor the children chatter,
then scream and fight. She hushes them. A pot
boils over. As she dashes to the stove
too late, a wave of nausea overpowers
subject and countersubject; zest and love
drain out with soapy water as she scours
the crusted milk. Her veins ache. Once she played
for Rubinstein (who yawned). The children caper
round a sprung mousetrap where a mouse lies dead.
When the soft corpse won’t move they seem afraid.
She comforts them, and wraps it in a paper
featuring: Tasty Dishes from Stale Bread.
MIRIAM STONE
Ferry Poem
Everything here reflects the harbour.
Above Georgian warehouses
Cold glass and aluminium towers
Glint like smooth blocks of ice.
Light, like fire, recoils in waves
From the twisting cracked mirror of water.
Motion is embalmed in mists of sunlight,
Through a dissolving curtain of spray.
The sky, the persistence of the ferry,
The floating laughter 6f children,
Maintain the illusion.
Deceived by the moment you lie
And write in this ferry-long poem:
There will always be this harbour
With this city floating on it.
KEITH VINCENT SMITH
An Australian Childhood
Once was a great lake, a sea, towards
sundown most visible, gulls
sparking the air. They were trailing
boomerangs out over the sandbanks when the sun
wavered a little and all of a'sudden
went down. We stared at each other
just a moment, then went on playing.
Later the kookaburra sang in the wattle
tree and koala! koala! the bears as well
as the sun burnt through the branches, melted
the mist from the animal-talking wood.
We were walking the trees high over ground
when he fell—lying there on his back,
the egg smashed in his hand on the ground below.
Crocodile and taipan in the marshes,
summer going on forever, swimmers
crucifying the rollers, riding
on surf-boards in to the land.
Yes for ever it seemed till they brought him in,
half a man, but the half of his body
left alone by the shark, and the sun at the mid.
In the mountains the stillness, cones
as blue as the mountains, foxlike
like the mask of a fox we collected.
And the moon rose up and the sky
filled with foam of light as we watched
the waterbright veils rising up from below
the cascades and falls and fountains of Leura.
Came the journey by night, with the changing
from gauge to gauge at the border, the landscape
slipping by slipping by as its rhythm
lulled us into deep sleep. And oh!
the wild choking for air till someone
ran in to us, caught us up, opened
widely the window, and we breathed again.
Not a breath on the harbour, the moon
running low alongside, with away
to the starboard the pilot-boat
keeping its distance. So the voyage
began, and ever the distance grew outward
from the centre that was, and ever
the reefs became thicker, the storms more frequent
and fierce.
ALAN RIDDELL
Forest Night
High up over the forest
The stars shine.
They are like sweet-fire hickory and the moon
Is white pine.
But now among them thimbles of the rockets wobble,
Red.
And someone has scathed the moon through the
breathing miles
With a bullet-head.
How often then shall we see them hickory
And pine?
One needle is enough of steel to blind and forge
Fire shine.
Ah, if the forest bursts, if all the nights blaze
Out above,
Be near always, we will bramble sweetness
In our thighs for love.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM


THE RED PAGE
IS EVERYONE READING LAWRENCE?
Hal Porter's Rebels against Lawson
By RAY MATHEW
Coast to Coast: Australian Stories
1961-1962. Selected by Hal Porter.
Angus & Robertson, Sydney.
225. 6d.
“CGast to Coast” is a biennial of no
critical importance whatsoever.
Edited by a creative critic determined to
promote particular themes, settings or
styles, it might be useful, as a magazine
can be useful, as a guide or a warning,
a proclamation or a joke, but it has
never had that sort of editor. Even Mr
Porter, the latest of the line, renowned
for his stylistic individuality and his
idiosyncratic outlook on life and litera-
ture, has been content merely to cull
what is readable from the crop sub-
mitted to him. He is sad “that humour is
too difficult for today’s Australian
writers”, glad they “are becoming less
parochial and Lawson-led” and has tried
not to allow his own “preference . . .
blind him” to other work “so that a
flawed ‘literary’ style w'as not overvalued
against a flawless ‘commercial’ style.”
The only sign, therefore, of his indivi-
duality in editorship is that the stories
are published (l think for the first time
ever) in backward alphabetical order. It
is the luck of the harvest that he is able
to include so many varied stories of
competence.
The first thirty pages of the collection
are the least competent full of ama-
teurish writing, confused intention, un-
intended revelation, tiresome verbiage.
With w'hat relief one turns to page 43
and Olaf Ruhen’s professionalism in his
story (from Lawrence?) about a man
who becomes a god not that it is
“flawless”. Even Mr Ruhen who can
calculate so exactly what he needs to
make a story “read - ’ is capable of
giving us a satellite pilot w'ho knows
nothing of any “language other than
English” and risk us dismissing the
whole story as the convenient fiction
which it is, of writing so lazily that he
can say with straight face: “He lay . . .
his every response measured by the in-
struments, only his mind his eyes
constantly roving the instrument panel.
He was, not unnaturally, an admirable
specimen of a man.” That “not unnatur-
ally” is not meant to amuse, nor to mean
m uch at all. But the story is “profes-
sional”; it is just as long as plot can
hear without character to help it, is
disarmingly readable, has a nice almost-
surprise; if one skips, it is only to find
°ut what happened next.
The remaining twenty-three stories in
the book share its readability, its con-
fidence (it is confidence that allows a
writer that “not unnaturally”) and its
ability to satisfy during a first reading
Some have more involved plots, some
have characters in them. Peter Cowan’s
“Film" is touching (if the nouvelle vogue
were still nouvelle, someone would film
it), Geoffrey Dutton’s “An Old Bohem-
ian” is both bitchy and flattering to the
reader (but of course you're not like
this!), Heinz Nonveiller’s “In Regions of
Hiding” is sweet (and I mean sweet as
a rare compliment): Hugh Atkinson and
Thea Astley have stories interesting to
read and full of useful knowledge; Eric
Rolls and Mary Durack display senti-
ment and feeling . . . They are all good
stories of their kind, but it is an easy
kind and ultimately unsatisfying. “So
what?” is the comment after their last
paragraphs. “Now let’s talk, or drink, or
go to the pictures, or read a book.”
Even “The Wowser”, a story by
Thelma Forshaw which the editor with
his usual exactitude describes as “corus-
cating” and which is coruscating, comes
to something less than it promises. The
end is so neat, so planned and so un-
provided for that it dulls the effect of
the whole story; it is too easy a way
to stop coruscating as though a bal-
lerina were to finish her fouettes by
sitting down.
“Why should we be hard to read?” asks
Miss Forshaw, Mr O'Grady, Miss Rolfe
—most of the authors in this collection.
They are right, up to a point of course,
and they do what they want to do per-
fectly, but after a certain point if a story
is to do more than kill time at the laund-
erette, it must like any work of art impel
itself to its own conclusion—as our
editor, in his own stories, well knows.
Art is the way artists discover things
about life and themselves; all else is
show-business, curtain-design, waiting-
room reading. This reader for one ex-
pects a story to repay him the time it
steals by discovering something for him.
Consequently, the stories I returned
to, the ones that lived in my mind, were
those that began the book—the slovenly,
the mistaken, the amateur. Peter Shrubb’s
“The Anatomy of Miss Byrd” is —•
under the confusion about its narrator’s
age and function painfully touching,
disturbingly alive. W. N. Walker’s
“Lion at Large”—dismissible as the
result of the editor’s search for humour
is, in its polysyllabic pomposity like
Furphy gone wrong, genuinely funny:
genuine because the naivety of observa-
tion makes the naivety of incident seem
thought out discovered and not
just a plot. H. H. Wilson’s “The White
Butterfly”, despite its useless words and
clumsy symbolism, does have an incre-
dulous, astonished anger to illuminate its
scene of sexuality in the waving wheat
(is everybody reading Lawrence?). Judah
Waten's “His Only Love”, another of his
stories illustrating ideas, industry, ob-
servation and lack of “reality”, almost
succeeds as art as he matter-of-factly
describes crime, mateship and love; only
his sentimentality spoils it mother, for
instance, “had had to leave” but it
does so nearly work and mean some-
thing new that it makes the more
“successful” stories in the book look like
the entertainments they are.
But the joy of the book (and no doubt
the reason for its arrangement) is the
first story, “The Weight of a Man” by
Amy Witting. I read it the first time
with mounting impatience at its verbal
clumsiness, its conventional descriptions
of boys, its puritanism the lover is
Ivan (how often in Australian writing
the hint of decadent Europe when sex
is important!) but, re-reading it, the
whole book done, I felt a proper respect:
she’s game, this Miss Witting!
Family feeling, sexual relationship,
love-hate, desire-boredom things that
Miss Forshaw and Miss Beare show in
their stories—she attempts to analyse;
and she does show or tries to show the
results of this analysis acting on a char-
acter, acting through a character. True
she doesn't bring it off: the story’s too
short to allow her heroine room to move,
but she does move into the reader’s mind,
she does ask questions, she does demand
to be answered. With all its faults, the
story has that kind of exciting life.
This collection is one of the most
readable of the series and, incidentally,
one of the most international in setting.
New Guinea, Japan, India, Pakistan,
Canada, England . . . Most of the writers
use an Australian character to observe
or measure the foreigners and their
ways. Miss Abdullah is one of the three
exceptions. Her story, “A Long Way”,
is simple-seeming to the point of irrita-
tion but she has enough exoticism of
detail and enough faith in her people
and what they are saying to keep it safe
from sentimentality; the emotion she
asks from the reader is in proportion
to her subject. She is a model for Mr
Hungerford who is equally, but ininten-
tionally, as simple in his way. His tough-
ness, however, his “Lawson-led” avoid-
ance of sentiment cannot mask the
maudlin overevaluation of event and
feeling in which he and his virile charac-
ters indulge.


HOW TO GLORIFY ASIANS
A History of Malaya. John Kennedy.
Macmillan & Co. 50s?
TI/lalaya is not one of the world’s great
civilisations. Its indigenous inhabi-
tants are more interesting to the anthro-
pologist than they are to the historian;
its immigrants from India and China
brought with them a restless economic
energy that successfully transformed the
material life of the country, but as
bearers bf the cultural and political tradi-
tions of their homelands they had as
little to offer as the Greek fish merchant
from whom we vainly expect the culture
of Athens.
Since World War 11, Europeans (in-
cluding Australians) have suddenly taken
to glorifying the peoples of South-East
Asia both as “newly emergent nations”
and as important bastions of the free
world’s struggle against Communism in
Asia. We Malayans are taken seriously
—if not so much as human beings, then
at least as representatives of the genus
South-East Asian. Politically, this is no
doubt understandable; culturally it is
preposterous. From the history of India
and China, as from the history of Europe
and its clashes with other great civilisa-
tions, one can learn something of the
grandeur of the human race. From the
history of Malaya one cannot.
For a sociologist, the position is some-
what different. Malaya, in truth, has no
history; it is an immigration country,
built up by Europeans, Indians and
Chinese in the last 150 years of its ex-
istence. Like the United States, Australia
and Israel, it represents the most fertile
field for studies in migration, assimila-
tion, communal roles in politics and the
emergence of national consciousness.
Added to this is the interest of its (doubt-
ful) claim to be a successful multi-racial
society.
Mr Kennedy is senior lecturer in
history in that somewhat sad attempt to
compensate for Malaya’s cultural defi-
ciencies, the Malayan Teachers’ Training
College at Kirkby, near Liverpool (Eng-
land). Here student-teachers from
Malaya come for their training and are
taught, among other things, the history
of their own country. “A History of
Malaya,” no doubt, is precisely what they
want and need. Cautious, insipid, un-
committed, it outlines for them not as
the author wrongly claims the main
trends of Malayan history but the main
obvious facts: the Malay kingdom in
Malacca in the 15th century, Portu-
guese, Dutch and British intervention,
Chinese and Indian immigration, the
interminable Malay disputes over who
shall hold which throne or state office,
border disputes with Siam, Japanese oc-
cupation and the achievement of -inde-
pendence.
AII - . . -w , „
All this, no doubt, is what a Malayan
~t , , , , , , .
student-teacher is expected to know; but
. . . . . . . . ...
it is interest,ng ne.ther as history for its
own sake nor as illuminating background
to present sociological and political pro-
blems in Malaya. Mr Kennedy is
strongest on the dates of local sultans
and the causes of local disputes in the
Malay states; he can even enliven this
part of the story with occasional humor.
But this story has often been told,
vividly by contemporaries and sensitively
and knowledgeably by the old genera-
tion of colonial administrators. Mr Ken-
nedy has neither the intellectual resour-
ces nor the intimate knowledge born of
years in the country to improve upon
them.
When it comes to the real issues
relevant to twentieth-century Malaya,
Mr Kennedy falls back on worn cliches
and loose, general explanations that
commit him to almost nothing. He has
no feel for the country, no understanding
of Indians, Chinese or modern Malays
(as opposed to the nineteenth-century
Sultans) and desperately shirks any ques-
tions that would require either such
understanding or a willingness to make
political judgments. Characteristically,
the only exception to this is his treatment
of what is now a dead issue: Siam’s ex-
pansionist designs on Malaya. At present,
Marshal Sarit has his eyes elsewhere.
ALICE TAY ERH SOON
HISTORICAL SOCIETY STRIKES AGAIN
The Burial of Dr John White. Journal
of a Voyage to New South Wales.
John White. Angus & Robertson.
575. 6d.
HThe Royal Australian Historical Society
has served up to us its second
helping of early historical texts, the first
being Tench’s “Narrative and Complete
Account of the Settlement at Port Jack-
son.” It offers the text of Dr John White’s
journal in much the same way as the
former volume the little there is of
White interred in a vast mass of the
Historical Society’s explanations, the
corpse well pawed over and rearranged
to suit the Society’s tastes.
The natural manner in which to pre-
sent the unstudied journal of a Chief
Surgeon of a small settlement is to pre-
sent it exactly as, it was first printed
with a small biographical introduction
and perhaps an appendix or two of notes
by some such authority as Sir Edward
Ford on the medicine and methods of
the author and one natural history of
the colony here illustrated for the first
time.
The student eager to read White’s
volume in its new form first has to wade
through a general introduction covering
the whole history of Pacific Ocean dis-
covery and colonisation of Port Jackson
by Commander Geoffry Ingleton which
had already been printed in the Tench
volume, an editor’s introduction by Mr
Alec Chisholm, in which he tells us how
the original editor should have edited
the work. Also a biographical introduc-
tion by Mr Rex Rienits, “journalist and
author of television historical serials,”
who gave us, in the “Outcasts,” that af-
fecting “authentic” picture of Lachlan
Macquarie, Governor in Chief and Cap-
tain General of New South Wales,
drinking with an ex-convict in the public
bar of a Windsor hostelry in view of the
street and with his full dress coat hung
over the back of his chair. Then we go
through Mr Rienits’s reference notes to
his own work and finally reach the
“Journal of a Voyage to New South
Wales,” by John White, Esqre, Surgeon
General to the Settlement,” edited into
something like the shape in which Mr
Chisholm thinks it should have been
originally presented.
The actual text of this—stripped of title
pages, lists of subscribers and other
“extras” covers about 117 pages out
of the 282 pages in the book. The ap-
pendix dealing with natural history, an-
notated by Messrs Chisholm, C. W.i
Brazenor (mammals and reptiles), G. P.
Whitley (fishes) and J. H. Willis (plants);
and White’s weather tables, etc, occupy
another 15. After that there is the usual
paraphernalia of reference notes and
bibliography at the end, plus an index,
this eating up another 50 odd pages,
White's narrative has, therefore, been
wrapped up like an Egyptian mummy in
the observations and exercises of the
R.A.H.S’s agents, and without much
profit to the student.
In the original the book is a handsome
volume, legibly printed in leaded type on
a 7i x 5i inch type page. My edition has;
beautifully colored and detailed plates of[
most of the natural history specimens'
The text is in diary form, with side head'
ings indicating the months to which the
entries refer. Chisholm has divided it in-
to chapters, edited in its various ways and
thus, to my mind, destroyed much of its
unstudied flavor and made it harder to I
follow the annual dating than in th(
original.
The plates in the modern edition, re 1
duced and sometimes printed three to >
page, are a travesty on those in the fib
edition and show none of their
loveliness and fine detail. And in th*
natural history section they do not sit
the page opposite to the text describin' 1


HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM2OOI. ®
them as is done so conveniently in the
original. They are all over the book, and
not reduced to any systematic kind of
order.
The reference notes are largely ele-
mentary and “school marmy”, as when
we are told that oil of tar is obtained
from wood tar, that it has an aromatic
odour and strong antiseptic properties.
A few of the personal notes are useful
in identifying individuals or indicating
parallel versions by authors other than
White. But some are amazingly imper-
fect, as, for instance, that on Robert
Jacob Gordon, the curious Dutch Com-
mandant at the Cape of Good Hope.
Gordon is the Cape Dutchman of most
interest to Australians, but the RAHS
biographical comment on White’s des-
cription of him apparently omits the
main facts which make him of interest
to us —that he made his epic expedition
into the land of the Hottentots in part-
nership with our own Colonel William
Paterson, and that it is to his friendship
with early Australians that we owe our
first merino sheep which came out of
his flock.
However, as with Tench’s “Narrative”
and “Complete Account”, the part of
“White” worth reading is “White”, how-
ever it is embalmed and overlaid to dis-
play the sometimes limited expertise of
the pundits of the RAHS in the an-
tiquarianism of early New South Wales.
M. H. ELLIS
THE ABC OF CUBA
The Cuba Issues. Current Affairs
Bulletin, December 3, 1962, 6d.
Castrologists are divided into three
groups: Those following Nathaniel
Weyl hold that Fidel has been an under-
cover Soviet agent since his ’teens and
that the Cuban revolution was a Soviet-
instigated plot from beginning to end.
C. Wright-Mills, J. P. Sartre, P. Sweezy
and L. Huberman, and, generally, the
communoid Left here and abroad see
Castro as a bookish Ned Kelly, and, de-
pending on the degree of t’.eir political
delinquency, say either that he is a near-
Communist which, they hold, is a good
thing, or, that American perfidy drove a
good man into Soviet arms. In the Left-
liberal’s world of masturbatory phantas-
ies Fidel has moved into the place of
honor previously occupied by such di-
verse humanists as Stalin, Broz-Tito,
Mao and Soekarno. The fact that he has
a beautiful beard presumably helps with
the girls of both sexes.
The third, and fully rational, view sup-
ported by available empirical evidence is
based on an analysis of the Cuban situ-
ation by Theodore Draper, and the pre-
sent, very able CAB pamphlet leans
heavily on Draper’s work. It sees Castro
as a volatile middle-class rebel, brave
but fickle and brainless, without a social
programme of his own. Nature abhors
the vacuum: Once he was in power the
Communists moved n and supplied
Castro with a political programme and
w 'th an apparatus to put it into effect
and to administer the country. And the
price was, of course, Sovietization.
Following Draper, but ably using
other sources to supplement the evidence
the CAB pamphlet dispels some current
communoid myths: Castro was not
driven into Soviet arms by America’s re-
fusal to help him and by an economic
boycott following Cuban expropriations
°i American property. At his unofficial
visit in Washington in April, 1959,
Castro made it known that American
offers of help would embarrass him and
that he did not want them. The gradu-
ally tightening American trade embargo
was not in retaliation for Cuban expro-
priations but a reaction to unmistakable
signs that the Russians were taking over
the country by way of artificial trade and
direct agent-penetration. The Americans
did not “support Batista” in any sense
other than by simply propping up what
was there, roughly in the same sense in
which they “support” Tito. This was, of
course, very stupid, but not a link in a
sinister reactionary policy chain Ameri-
can policy, certainly before and to a
large extent also after the Castro revo-
lution, was piecemeal, unimaginative,
neither here nor there, but not calcu-
lated in any long-term sort of way.
When he came into power in 1959,
Castro, to all appearances, was not even
a moderate socialist. His imposition of
Sovietization on an unwilling populace
was a brazen confidence trick which led
to a breach with most of his original
supporters. He carried it out by the
grace of the Communist Party appara-
tus, which appeared on the scenes in
1959 well after the shooting was over
and which has a long record of col-
laboration with Batista.
The internal developments in Cuba
are catastrophic. Living standards among
the workers and peasants are falling
rapidly, not only as a result of the
American embargo but perhaps mainly
because of the regime’s policy of col-
lectivization of agriculture that recur-
rent nightmare accompanying all Soviet-
izations. Democrats and democratic soc-
ialists, Castro’s erstwhile supporters, are
in jail—the jails are overflowing with
political prisoners enduring hunger, tor-
ture and death—or among the 200,000
political refugees, mainly in the USA.
The pamphlet predicts that following
Khrushchev’s backdown on the rocket
issue, Castro’s position will be weakened.
The CAB is to be congratulated for
providing the only extensive and com-
petent analysis of the internal Cuban
situation in Australia.
FRAND KNOPFELMACHER
BLACK AND WHITE
Jan Domm, a Romp. Piet Niemand.
Collins 15s. 6d.
An English rendering of this book’s
title and “author” is “John Stupid”
by Peter Nobody. Under a veneer of
comedy lies an attack on South Africa’s
race laws. Linked with this is a brilliant
send-up of a completely unfeeling
bureaucracy.
Jan Domm starts off a believer in the
Plan apartheid. Suddenly he is re-
classified as a colored because his
grandmother was part negro. His wife
divorces him, claiming most of his
property. He loses his job and is forced
to sell his house and move to a part of
town specially reserved for colored per-
sons. Although he is an MA cum laude
because he is colored he is forced to
take a job as a butler. Jan Domm also
suffers numerous physical injuries in-
flicted by white and negro who both hate
the colored. Finally Mr Domm is re-
re-classified as white. Because he is Jan
Stupid he still believes as fervently as
ever in the Plan.
ROBERT MURRAY
Brickhill's Thriller
The Deadline. Paul Brickhill. Collins.
225.
Oaul Brickhill brings his reporting
skill and workmanlike style to a
thriller set in Paris and involving Alger-
ians living there. The story is fiction, but
Mr Brickhill has built his tension and
established his characters (notably the
French police) so deftly, that there is an
uncomfortable feeling that such incid-
ents as these were all too real in the
violent days of the Algerian struggle.
Mr Brickhill has now made the final
break with the war reporting which made
his name. It appears he has made it
successfully.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
IN DEFENCE OF CHOWILLA
A reply by the Minister
T was interested to hear of “grave
doubts” on the feasibility of plans for
the proposed Chowilla Dam expressed
by a writer in The Bulletin on Decem-
ber 8.
He did not say who he is or who else
entertains these alleged doubts. But they
do not exist in the minds of those res-
ponsible for the basic planning of this
project engineers, governmental offi-
cers and parliamentarians.
Your correspondent begins by finding
fault with the suitability of the Chowilla
site. 1 should like briefly to outline the
history of the scheme and how this site
came to be chosen above all others.
The River Murray Commission
realised more than 10 years ago that
there had to be a storage on the lower
Murray in addition to the half million
acre feet at Lake Victoria. That extra
storage was seen to be necessary to im-
prove the regulation of the river by
storing its surplus flows—and the surplus
flows from its tributaries.
An investigation of the off-river
storages in the lower Murray was there-
fore carried out. None of them was
found to be comparable with Lake Vic-
toria. Any possible sites were either defi-
cient in storage capacity or would have
cost too much.
An annual average of 10,800,000 acre
feet of water has flowed through South
Australia and out to sea over the past
10 years. The figure I have quoted is
over and above what South Australia
uses.
During those 10 years, the rate of
development of the Murray tributaries
by NSW and Victoria has indicated that
the contribution by surplus flow from
tributaries to the Murray in dry periods
will be reduced to insignificant volume
in the foreseeable future. It has become
evident that in drought years, when the
supply to the States by the River Murray
Commission depends solely on the Com-
mission’s resources (i.e. Hume Reservoir
and Lake Victoria), intolerable restric-
tions on diversions would be needed in
all States.
South Australia was particularly con-
cerned at this trend. It was estimated
that in 10 years’ time the State would
be using its present entitlement from the
Murray up to the limit. The prospect of
accepting the severe restrictions that
would have had finally to be imposed
was viewed with apprehension.
So in order to safeguard the future of
its water supplies South Australia sug-
gested construction of a large storage on
the lower Murray at Chowilla.
Investigations indicated that it would
operate most efficiently as a River
Murray Commission storage, and this was
finally agreed at a conference between
the Prime Minister and State Premiers.
However, NSW indicated that it was
not prepared at that stage to contribute
its agreed share of the cost. It pleaded
that other water conservation and irriga-
tion commitments were more pressing.
Both NSW and Victoria, of course,
will benefit from Chowilla. They are
obliged to send 1,254,000 acre feet of
water to South Australia each year, and
much of this amount will now come
from Chowilla.
It is true that Victoria will benefit
most because it has no additional
sources of water, unlike NSW with its
Menindee storages along the Darling.
With the Menindee accumulations, NSty
can provide its share of the supply to
South Australia and use its allocation
from Hume Reservoir in diversions up.
stream. *
Thus it can be seen how, with less'
development for irrigation in the upper
river, and with a reserve of water avail-
able to supply South Australia, NSW is
reluctant at this stage to enter into
financial commitments over Chowilla.
The Commonwealth Government ap-
preciated that NSW had a case for non-
participation at this stage. The over-
riding consideration, however, was the
need to get an early start to the dam.
This was necessary in the interests of
NSW and Victoria in particular but also
of the nation as a whole. For these
reasons the Commonwealth Government
agreed to temporarily finance the NSW
share of the costs. ]
Regarding your correspondent’s main 1
criticism of Chowilla — its high rate of
evaporation — the answer is simple.
While some water will be lost by evapor-
ation, much will still remain, and all of
this water would otherwise continue to
run to waste. Investigations have also
shown that despite its higher evapora-
tion Chow'illa will still confer greater
benefits on the three States than would
further storages constructed in the head-
waters of the Murray. The time has not
yet arrived when these upper storages
can be economically used, but it is quite
likely that as Australia continues to grow,
and develop it will one day become 7
necessary to construct them. ji
As for seepage, it has been a negligible f
problem with Lake Victoria, the banks s
of which were completed in 1928 with-
out benefit of the construction techniques 5
which are now available. Adequate pro- f
vision against seepage will of course be f
made in the form of cut-offs and the (
like, under the wall of the dam.
It is not believed, by the way, thai b
high salinity in the storage will develop ii
Although evaporation would naturally a
tend to increase salinity in the stored p
water, a considerable volume of watei
will be passing through Chowilla reser-b
voir in normal years. Also, in droughl.bi
periods the storage will be drawn dowfli aj
rapidly to supply the needs of South
Australia, and both of these factors wilf e>
prevent appreciable increase in the saltj n
content. b £
The engineers of the constructing
authority for South Australia have bees
carrying out very thorough
over the past three years. c ] ;
I can assure your correspondent tM] ai
these skilled men are fully awake to w a{ ]
possible dangers to which he drew attefl
tion in his article. a p
Senator Sir William SpooNfich;
Minister for National 1
-
Canberra. ' f 1
CHOWILLA DOUBTS
The Bulletin article referred to
by Sir William Spooner tempered the
enthusiasm which has widely greeted
the Chowilla Dam project by examin-
ing criticisms made in the Mildura
area and at a Victorian ALP confer-
ence. These particularly concentrated
upon evaporation rates over the
storage area, the site’s actual suita-
bility and the question of salinity.
Some estimates of evaporation had
indicated that the dam could lose
about a sixth of its capacity each year
and that such losses would be in-
creased by heavy seepage through
sandy ground. The Murray’s saltiness,
if lifted by high evaporation, might
also prove adverse to Renmark’s
grape, citrus and stone fruit crops
All these were obvious items, the
article admitted, but there existed no
public evidence that they had been
checked.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Trade treaty report needed
An unhealthy and unnecessary reticence hangs over the
negotiation of the new trade treaty between Australia
and Japan. With a complicated international year
ahead, the least the Federal Government could do would be to
give local business some idea of the general drift in dis-
cussions and a probable date for their conclusion.
Such a form of interim report can in no manner imperil
either the matters of policy or detail which remain for decision.
Yet it might well help industry here to come more closely to
grips with a developing though still laggard export programme
and with the kind of competition it must expect from a major
industrial power and a requisite Pacific partner.
The Government has just seen fit to announce the initial
round in the current year's series of conferences between itself
and Australian industry. These consultations are supposed to
provide Cabinet with an overall picture of what business is
thinking. There is surely an equal obligation on Government
occasionally to furnish business a few hints of possible major
developments.
Even the approximate, though incomplete line of our future
dealings with Japan obviously constitutes a major development.
For, as this journal has maintained several times before, the
entire pattern of trade between the two countries has altered
since the 1957 agreement.
The present talks on renegotiation have been going on since
September last. Perhaps the difficulties may seem almost as
great as those which prolonged British-Japanese discussions
for six years! If so, that is only another case for some
Governmental announcement.
So far, and this from Tokyo, has come word of one
hindrance being the Australian defence of certain “immature”
industries. Of course, on December 17 last we had helpful
assurance from the Department of Trade that the talks were
proceeding very satisfactorily. How revealing!
Leaving the general question of the Government’s responsi-
bility to inform, there are one or two particular reasons why
business should be permitted to start assembling an overseas
and local trade programme to cover the very near future.
It is sufficient barely to mention the moods of efficiency and
expansionism which must go hand in hand to furnish our
industrial progress. The mechanics of these essentials are
being brought home to business every day as recovery becomes
more positive.
Vet the direction of trading activities, especially as they
concern exports, may call for more elucidation and deeper
clarification of Government policy. Japan will plainly fill a
larger place than it is occupying at the moment, and to mutual
advantage.
This position must prevail whatever happens to Britain’s
application to join the European Common Market. The
chances, though more contorted than they were only a short
w hile ago, still point towards entry, however delayed.
A muted and recalcitrant tone in the most recent Brussels
parleys has led some observers to plead for and plan a revival
of the old and battered design of a Commonwealth unit. One
now hears rumors of some bright Canberra boys plotting the
renaissance.
Be that as it may, the trend of trade away from Common-
wealth, so marked a feature for many years, will not easily be
reversed. Even supposing that it could, and many old trading
links be resumed, an expansive and growing Australia would
still be directed strenuously towards the Pacific, towards South
and East Asia.
All the above seems rather a largeish peg on which to hang
a plea for some information on the presently ensuing trade
talks. But the case for continuous and interim reporting is
plain. The Government has to help business see, as soon as
possible, the latest problems involved.
IY/leanwhile the company and trade organisations themselves
T*- 1 should take extensive care to learn everything they can
about the Asian areas. We commend to their attention, and
shall be examining in detail again, the 1963 yearbook of the
Far Eastern Economic Review.
This extremely comprehensive review examines the public
affairs and economic developments of practically every country
that constitutes our “near north” and our commercial ambit. Its
survey bears complete digestion by the less-informed of our
businessmen.
We are of this region, yet perhaps a little uncomfortable
fitting into it. One comment from the yearbook covers our
situation.
“With the projected establishment of Malaysia and the
increase in the tempo of activities in the Association of
Southeast Asia, regional co-operation took on further urgency,
especially against the background of accelerated integration
arrangements in Europe and elsewhere,” the review asserts.
This attitude finds sure application in an area where
economic progress has been “moderate and unevenly spread.”
Relatively advanced countries, such as Australia and Japan, are
collaborators in a position where there is “no narrowing of the
gap between the levels of living in the advanced countries and
those in the developing countries of Asia, which were still far
from achieving sustained economic growth and reasonable
per capita incomes.”
BRITAIN LIFTS TRADE
WITH EUROPE
HThe full figures for Commonwealth trade in 1961, issued in
London last week by the Commonwealth Economic Com-
mittee, leave little doubt of Britain’s growing dependence on
trade with European countries and the continuing decline in
the significance of its trade with other Commonwealth coun-
tries, albeit the latter still being the more important.
In pounds sterling Britain’s . exports to the Common
Market and the European Free Trade Area increased by £.150


million to £1,112 million in 1961 compared with a drop of
£42 million to £1,292 million in exports to Commonwealth
countries.
The proportion of Britain’s exports going to Commonwealth
markets was 34 p.c. in 1961 compared with 36 p.c. in 1960.
On the other side of the ledger, British imports from the
Commonwealth fell by about 7 p.c., or by £99 million to
£1,362 million, in 1961. Against this, Britain imported £l4
million more for a total of £1,137 million from the CM
and EFTA countries in the same period.
The Commonwealth Economic Committee says these trade
trends were carried further in 1962. In particular Britain’s
exports to the Commonwealth continued to decline notably
to Canada, India, Australia and New Zealand —whereas over-
all its exports rose by £44 million in the first half of the year
compared with the like period of 1961, largely because of
increased shipments to Western Europe and the United States.
OIL DRILLERS LEAD IN
A NEW YEAR
T>re-Christmas exuberance in oil search investment found
A no early reflection in New Year markets unless it was
in the form of a hangover, but this isn't to say that with two
firm legacies of discovery from 1962 to bite on and an
intensive drilling programme mounted the anti-climax will
necessarily be sustained.
We should know pretty soon if the Sunnybank strike was
a flash in the pan, because the Associated group plans to
sink another well in the vicinity of the discovery well in a
day or so. The exact location will be half a mile east of
Sunnybank No. 1, which is 48 miles south-east of Roma and
120 miles north-west of Moonie. One can expect a succession
of other wells in the area on the pattern of the Moonie test
wells, be the next well dry or wet.
In the interim the discovery well has bottomed at 7,135 ft
in a granite formation and the well is being prepared for
production tests both within the 5,860-5,925 ft established
oil flowing zone and from other interesting levels.
Further north in its Queensland permit area Associated is
also preparing to spud in a well at Kildare following the
completion of production tests at Westgrove No. 3, which is
now below 12,500 ft and, at the latest report, drilling deeper.
No. 11 well at Moonie, which was spudded-in at Christmas,
has been proceeding according to schedule. This is another
flank well situated half a mile north of No. 7. The same
group has started an exploratory well eight miles to the south
of Moonie to be known as Crowder No. 1 and its wildcat at
Cockatoo 140 miles north was last reported to be between
6000 and 7000 ft.
Oil Development’s Miranda No. 1 drilling in Queensland
is down to about 7000 ft without as yet showing anything
of tangible interest though the structures so far encountered
by the bit are not unencouraging.
Mid-Eastern, drilling near a water bore which encountered
petroleum gas in the Mt Jack area (northern NSW), has in
mind going down to only 3000 ft in this well, deemed to
be a stratigraphic hole. This will be followed by a combined
Mid-Eastern Caltex bore on a major structure in the Surat
basin said to be seven miles wide by 32 miles, revealed in
the course of extensive seismic work which also threw up
several smaller targets.
Clifden No. 3 well being drilled by Clarence River is in
sandstone and shale in the region of 5,000 ft and is
encountering difficulties caused by flood conditions.
Clarence River also reported early in the new year that
its stratigraphic well was down to about 3000 ft with the
drill passing through jurassic sediments after passing out of
a tight sandstone formation. The well was drilling ahead
last weekend.
In other States Wapet has intimated that its Woolmulla well,
180 miles north of Perth in WA, is down to 5400 ft in a
sandstone-siltstone-shale formation and is drilling ahead. Minot
shows of gas and florescence were located in this hole late l
last month.
Frome-Broken Hill’s Eumeralia No. 1 well in the Port
Fairy district of western Victoria was below 10,000 ft at the
last report and is drilling ahead in dense sandstone and mud-
stone with sandstone interbeds.
Oil Search Ltd stopped its lamara No. 1 well in Papua
just before Christmas and is examining the results of tests
on the formations revealed in the hole preparatory to deciding
on its next drilling campaign. lamara No. 1 reached a total
depth of 5950 ft.
BUSINESS TREMBLES AT
WAGE CLAIMS
TjjhrOM their present happy haven of cost stability, many
■* sections of industry are looking askance at the basic-
wage hearings to begin before the Arbitration Commission,
on February 19. These hearings will not only deal with the
wages claims but cover also possible margins increases and
Federal union’s plea for three weeks’ annual holidays.
The Commission is also expected to consider once again
the matter of quarterly cost-of-living adjustments to the basic
wage. In its 1961 inquiry the Commission affirmed that
“consideration of prices (based upon the Consumer Price
Index) should take place annually. We will each year make
the assumption that the effect of movements in the Consumer
Price Index should be reflected in the basic wage unless we
are persuaded to the contrary by those seeking to oppose the
change.”
This year also brings a necessity for reconsideration of the
real basic wage to take into account any productivity changes
since June, 1960. {
Some business pessimists are doleful enough to expect to.'
“cop the lot.” Informed legal opinion sees as most likelyl
only the granting of the holidays claim. As is widely known,
the price index has remained virtually steady since the 1961
hearings. However if The Bulletin’s forecast of a skilled
labor shortage comes true there could develop a demand pul
leading to substantial over-award wage payments.
ACCOUNTANT LOOKS AT
ASSET VALUES
TOhe importance of relativity in economics is widely a p precis-
ted over the whole field of commercial activity, including
share markets, but current reminders of it in the context of the
value of assets of concerns trading unprofitably are timely with
so many debenture holders looking for their money back. .
In the course of his answers to shareholders at the Factors!
meeting in Melbourne last week the chairman, Mr V. TI
Gladstones, was at pains to point out the folly of liquidating
assets in a bid to salvage the prior charge money in thatj
concern. >
At one stage in reply to a shareholder wanting a bluijf
answer to the question whether Factors was solvent he stately
that “we are dealing with a situation that is the case with m%
people; if you decide you are going to sell them up and reals 2
their assets then you can be sure most people are not
“I suggest to most of you who have very substantial
mortgages on your homes that if you decide to sell them ojtl
the spot you may not get the lot. o
“But this is not the way you judge a trading concern. Y%
judge it as a going concern. If you don’t judge, it as a goinl
concern then it is not solvent.” vi
Then, a little later on at the meeting, Mr Gladstones w


C.B. A
888
Travel with
confidence!
T-r
MKMlfctilljm
THE
COMMERCIAL BANK
Or AUSTRALIA
LIMITED
makes all
travel arrangements
for you!
Travelling for business or pleasure, you can
travel with complete confidence when your
travel reservations have been made by the
C.B.A.
Our experienced Travel Officers will gladly
arrange all details for you.
m
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
THE COMMERCIAL SAVINGS BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
CBA/37/24R
asked if there was any hope of Factors
emerging as a going concern, to which
he replied that “if the debenture holders
sa y ‘we are going to get back our pound
of flesh’ 1 am afraid there is not a great
deal of hope for us. But I don’t think
the debenture holders are going to take
such a step if we can show them there
js a possibility of the company
emerging.”
And at another point in the meeting
he made this oblique but pointed refer-
ence to the value of assets: “All my life
(and he is, mark you, the leading accoun-
tant in Melbourne) I have been opposed
to the concept of asset backing for deben-
tures; the real asset backing for deben-
tures is earnings. If the money which
you raise on debentures cannot earn in-
terest, then you have no backing—that
is the case with Rockmans. If they lose
£2 million then they have £2 million of
assets.”
Taking these three references together
one gets a very sobering picture of the
delicate basis on which the accounting
structure of Australian companies rests,
not that it is unique in that because, in
fact, the book values of companies' assets
the world over are uniquely related to
what may be termed the normality of
commercial and consumer behavior as
well as to fluctuations in the general
economic climate in which companies
operate.
The value of assets of a particular
Jrm can suffer sharp fluctuations arising
, from earnings’ performance and also
from variations in the activity in the
economy as a whole. In his remarks at
the Factors' meeting and also in talking
to The Bulletin before it, Mr Glad-
stones seems to have had both aspects
in mind.
By enunciating the principle that the
value of assets is relative, both to the
' circumstances of the firm and to the state
of the economy, he brought some en-
lightened realism into the company world
and, if he does nothing else, he should
' cause all those who have committed funds
; in fixed interest securities to ponder the
1 fact that there is no absolute security in
.company investment, even of the fixed
| interest variety. Everything remains rela-
jfive to the possibilities of payment.
] Equally he has sounded another warn-
lng, if that were needed, to those who
still pay attention to historical figures
for net asset backing to shares. For such
‘figures are suspect first because they give
P e picture only for one date in the year
p n d secondly because their validity is
dependent on the assurance of normality
‘ ln commercial and consumer behavior on
one hand and the absence of econ-
j°mic fluctations as they affect individ-
-IPi firms on the other.
A natural corollary of Mr Gladstones’
i Vlew that- the backing for fixed interest
securities lies in earnings power rather
than assets and that liquidation will
generally get the banks but few other
lenders out of their full fixed interest
loans (speaking generally as well as of
Factors) is that attention be concentrated
on restoring earnings power ahead of
anything else.
This is not so easy in the case of com-
panies with great millstones of interest
weighing down on their earnings’ capac-
ity. For some of them nothing short of
moratoriums on interest payments are re-
quired to relieve the pressure on earn-
ings’ power in the hope that it will be
increased sufficiently ultimately to re-
sume interest payments.
In some cases where the hope is rea-
sonable (and Factors appears to be one
of these) the best choice of debenture
holders seems to lie in taking their fur-
ther chances with the company and hold
their hand against liquidation of assets
at least until the general economic back-
ground for the sale of assets becomes
more propitious.


COAL INDUSTRY CROSSROADS
Even more efficiency needed
The economic importance to Aus-
tralia of making the best use of
bituminous, semi - bituminous and
brown coal, which may still be the only
worthwhile indigenous source of fuel
energy in Australia, has for many years
been the subject of discussion and re-
search, both fundamental and applied.
Much of this research has been valuable
insofar as it was undertaken by or on
behalf of particular industries, such as
gas-making, steel-making, electric power
generation and some sections of the
chemical industry. In many instances,
the results of this work were available
only to the particular interest concerned
and, therefore, an overall and related
appraisal of technical and economic
possibilities was not possible.
In 1945, as a result of representations
made by CSIR, and after consultation
with the Commonwealth Coal Com-
missioner, a committee was formed to
collect information regarding the pro-
duction, preparation and utilisation of
coal in Australia. Arising from this,
CSIRO in 1948 established a coal re-
search section at Ryde, near Sydney;
its basic work to determine and publish
data on the chemical and physical
properties of Australian coals and to
assess the suitability for various uses
such as combustion, carbonisation, gasi-
fication, hydrogenation and the produc-
tion of chemical compounds.
Governmental interest, both Common-
wealth and State, increased from 1947
onwards. In 1948 a technical mission
was sent abroad to investigate recent
advances in fuel technology and, in
1950, a Fuel Utilisation Group was
formed within the Chemical Engineer-
ing Section of the CSIR Division of
Chemistry at Fisherman’s Bend, Vic-
toria.
Again, in 1957, the Joint Coal Board
formed a committee to study “the
possibilities of a coal-based chemical
and liquid fuel industry.” From recom-
mendations made by this committee the
Joint Coal Board sponsored certain
specific research projects.
However, these several activities, al-
though very important and of consider-
able value in themselves, lacked co-
ordination and overall directive, par-
ticularly since a study of coal utilisation
covers a very wide field of coal
derivatives, the technical aspects associ-
ated with their production and a valua-
tion of their economic and market
potential, particularly when related to
competition with similar substances
obtained otherwise than from coal, for
example, oil and its by-products obtained
from the distillation of imported
petroleum products. In any such study
it is also of particular importance to
know the types of reserves and produc-
tion costs of the available raw coal.
Because of the complexities associ-
ated with the co-ordination of research
of this nature and the necessity to
determine a national policy on future
coal research and development, the
Commonwealth Government formed the
The business quiet of January gives
time to look at various industries. The
coal industry is one which has been
studied and restudied by experts in
post-war years.
A “top brass” group —CURAC—
was formed on a Federal basis in
1959. It reported to the Government
three years later —but details of the
report hitherto have not been given
widespread publicity. Investors and
industrialists will find it worthy of
study.
Coal Utilisation Research Advisory
Committee (CURAC) in June, 1959,
with the following comprehensive terms
of reference:
(a) to make a complete review of
research done in recent years,
currently in progress or proposed;
(b) to review progress made in over-
seas research into the uses of coal;
(c) to consider both the short and
long term aspects of coal research,
giving attention first to those lines
of research and investigation
which offer promise of leading to
increased demand for coal in the
short-term;
(d) to recommend to the Common-
wealth Government those lines of
research which should be either
further encouraged or initiated,
and
(e) to advise generally on all matters
relating to research and investiga-
tion into the uses of coal for
which Commonwealth funds are
provided.
The very high degree of importance
which the Commonwealth Government
placed on the authority and decisions
of CURAC can be assessed from
membership, namely: (chairman)
W. W. Pettingell, OBE, general managt
Australian Gas Light Co., Sydney; \\
late Dr R. S. Andrews, CMG, chairnia;
and managing director, Gas and Ful
Corporation, Victoria; Professor J. [
Baxter, CMG, University of NSW; N
S. F. Cochran, CBE, chairman, Join
Coal Board; Mr J. R. A. Glen, managin.
director, ICI of Australia and Net
Zealand; Dr H. G. Raggatt, CBE, sec
retary, Department of National Develop
ment; Dr F. W. G. White, CBE, chair!
man, CSIRO; Dr H. K. Worner, Direct
tor of Research, BHP Co. Ltd; and E
G. E. Burrows, manager, planning anf
development, Gas and Fuel Corporate
Victoria.
The committee completed its repop
on March 30, 1962. Among its cot
elusions, which have not been public!
aired as yet, the committee noted:
(i) the demand for coal will continu;
to increase at least during the nei
decade and that the increase wit
result from the normal anticipates'
growth of the iron and steel making
industry and the generation A
electricity; \
(ii) in other industries such as gasj!
making, chemical manufacture, rar
transport and general industry cor
has been and will continue to
affected by competition frot (
petroleum-based products. Ther £
has already been some impact fro 4
petroleum products used in elec
tricity generation and iron ait
steel making, but it is not expected
to be as marked as in the othtv
types of industry mentioned; v
(iii) currently the loss in demand $
domestic marke" is offset by aP
expansion in the export market;
(iv) the committee could find n#
evidence that research and developP
ment on a short-term basis coufr
lead to a further increase in coafi
consumption either in existing pf|)
cesses or those currently in tiff
development stage;
(v) if the coal industry is to retain f
markets and increase the tonnar
consumed it is imperative thr*
everything possible must be doif
to maintain and increase technic
and economic efficiency in boll
production and utilisation aspect
involving— r l
(a) better definition and knor 1
ledge of our coal resource


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
PER ANNUM
FOUR YEARS.
jh
kljh
kjhk
c*tjb
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal emergency as set
out in the Prospectus
Applications for these Notes must be made on the form
attached to the Prospectus, which is now available from:
All branches of the Company's bankers, THE BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Floor, Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
PERTH: 7th Floor, 81 St. George's Terrace.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Baylis Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any ot the following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILI (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Trustees for the Noteholders are the Bankers &
Traders Insurance Company Limited
CCIS3/AB
Clip and Post Coupon■
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the Prospectus with application
forms.
NAME
ADDRESS
(b) improvement in the methods of
coal winning; preparation and
distribution;
(c) improvements in the technology
of coal utilisation in those in-
dustries which now constitute
the major markets for coal;
(d) development of new processes
for coal utilisation.
In regard to the production of oil
from coal, the committee reached the
conclusion that although it is technically
feasible to produce liquid fuels from
coal, an industrial complex to produce
such products, using established pro-
cesses, would require a very large
capital expenditure and would, also,
incur substantial operating losses.
From this brief resume it is evident
that the committee reached the opinion
that there is little hope for an immediate
and spectacular expansion for coal con-
sumption based on known or presently
anticipated technical developments.
Whatever increases there may be will
depend on the domestic markets of the
large consumers such as the steelworks
and power stations and by the ability
of the coalmining industry itself, aided
by efficient transport and shipping
facilities,, to compete commercially with
alternative sources of energy and to
attract overseas markets for coking, gas-
making and steaming types of coal.
> However, as a long-term project, the
committee has recommended that coal
industry laboratories should be estab-
lished on a national basis to undertake
applied scientific and technical research
on coal and would include such aspects
as mining, coal preparation, distribution
and utilisation.
The committee also suggests that a
National Coal Research Council should
be constituted to advise the Common-
wealth Government on research work
which should be pursued, the costs
(thereof and extent to which the Com-
monwealth might assist with finance.
In regard to the short-term aspects,
(he coalmining industry in NSW has
iheen very active, and successful to date,
n obtaining contracts and casual orders
i rom overseas countries for various
ypes of coal, in particular hard and
inedium coking coals from the South
-oast and the Burragorang areas. This
msiness, which amounted to over 3
pillion tons in 1961-62, has been written
Against keen competition from other
ijountries, such as the USA and Red
hina.
The productive efficiency of the in-
dustry has continued to improve, the
mtput per man shift having increased
( rom 5-76 tons at June, 1961, to 6.43
: ons with no indication, at present, of
an upward limit. Thirty-two coal wash-
ing and preparation plants are already
in service, and capital amounting to
nearly £6O million during the last 9
years has been invested in the industry
for mechanisation, and development and
rehabilitation of collieries to achieve
still greater economic and technical
efficiency.
The State Government, with financial
aid by the Commonwealth Government,
has undertaken to modernise and im-
prove ship loading facilities at Port
Kembla, Sydney (Balmain) and New-
castle. In addition, the NSW Depart-
ment of Railways have provided freight
rebates and other facilities in respect to
coal transported to the ports of ship-
ment for export.
Somewhat similar developments to-
wards overall improvement in the
efficiency of the black coal industry
are being implemented in other States,
particularly in Queensland where there
are optimistic indications of the develop-
ment of a substantial export market.


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
2!) 7 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761
(1 lines)
MIBBI 'ON
xoa o j
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6059.
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5121
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGEAM,” Sydney.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
/Ane of my editor’s New Year gifts—
elevation to start this week’s invest-
ment natter—reminds me that it is better
to give than receive. He, no doubt, faced
the quandary of what on earth to natter
about, too.
I struggled back to the business world
of ’63 from my summer cottage (you
now know where that £2OOO went) where
I have fond memories now of rain beat-
ing steadily on the tin roof. I did manage
to read the occasional daily paper, noting
that Factors had scored another “first”
with its annual general meeting right on
New Year’s Eve. There were a couple of
quaint sayings by the chairman. “Factors
had little hope of emerging as a going
concern if debenture holders demanded
their pound of flesh.” The debenture
holders, already reeling from the possible
loss of their security, are now maligned as
Shylocks if they attempt to protect this
security. Then later on to a question by
a shareholder:— “If you study the
accounts you will see this company is not
nearly on the rocks, but shareholders have
to help themselves.”
Be that as it may, the sharemarket
was not to be deterred from its cheerful
Christmas close. It re-opened on a strong
note and I was determined to be in on
one of those choice bull markets. If
this was to eventuate, then it was the
leading industrial companies and the
rights markets where I felt the biggest
gains would be.
My editor, seasonally gift-happy, has
engaged in yet another kind of promotion
—he has sold me on The Bulletin
“stock of the year (1963)”, the magnifi-
cent and comprehensive CRA. It really
did not take much inducement to force
me into buying 400, though I left it
until first light on Friday and had to pay
16s.
For some time a vehemently anti-
ICIANZ man, my views have gradually
been swinging around. It was the prelim-
inary statement early in December that
finally converted me. The profit rise of
almost 50 p.c. was most pleasing. Further-
more, a breakdown of the profit shows the
bulk of this rise was in the second half of
the year. The company should now be
able to consolidate its capital (which,
admittedly, will have increased by 80 p.c.
in the last two years) with the increased
demand in the chemical industry. There
is also the possibility of an increase in
dividend from 7 p.c. Altogether it looks
as though it could be a popular share this
year; I bought 200 of the contributings,
the final call of 10s. being payable on
February 1.
Another near-leader that took my
fancy was my old friend John Lysaght.
You may remember back in October I
reluctantly sold the 200 I held, at 635.,
incurring a loss of £l3. Always keen to
recover a loss, I saw my chance in the
present market to buy 100 at 595. 6d.
Accounts for the financial year just
finished should show a very good result.
It would not be surprising to see the
earning rate close to 20 p.c., as com-
pared to 1961’s 11.8 p.c. The directors
may even give a 2 p.c. bonus as com-
pensation for the reduced dividend for
1961!
I could not forget Harden and Johnson.
With swelling pride I had observed all
those Valiants on the road at Christmas.
As the bonus issue was l-for-3, I bought
a further 100 at 40s. 6d., giving an aver-
age price of 375.
My purchases were getting out of hand
and I had not even got to the rights
markets. Talcott Factors and Simalex
were two of interest but now out of
reach. To relieve my frustration, I settled
for 1000 Tasman Dry Cleaner rights for
2d., costing me the princely sum of just
over £lO without the application monies.
I know very little about this Sydney-
based dry cleaner except that it is the
reconstructed company built around a
Frederick Rose shell. In fact in its pre-
sent form it has no past history. The
financial structure of the company looks
reasonable, especially if it is successful
with the present issue of 1-for-l at par
of Is.
In this type of market it is a little more
difficult to know what to sell than whj
to buy. I finally settled on GMK contr
buting shares, which when sold at 7s. 3 (
gave me a profit of £3O. Prasby has no
shown any life recently, so I decided 01
the sale of these shares, resulting in )
profit of £7. Another company that I ha;
been disappointed in was ANI. On
financial paper apparently realised nf
disappointment and in recommendiil
these shares caused the market to ris!
from 3s. lOd. to 4s. 4d., my break-evft
point. I sold.
Details of the 1962-63 transitio
period:—
BOUGHT
200 ICI ctg. at 33/- £3tf
100 J. Lysaght at 59/6 <£3o|
100 Harden and Johnson at
40/6 £2»!
1,000 Tasman Dry Cleaner
rights at 2d. £ll'
400 CRA at 16/- £3J|
SOLD
1,000 GMK ctg. at 7/3 £35!
1,000 ANI at 4/4 £2»
1,000 Prasby at 2/11 £l4
The result of these transactions is th;
I owe my broker a mammoth £487.
I am now in 1963, a year which alma
everybody has approached in optimisn
with the following portfolio:—
Cos' Ci [
No. ot None of Date Per rj
Shares Cor.pany Bought Share Pr 'i
400 Malleys 3/5/62 20/9 23
2,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 8/i
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 11
300 Marcus Clark notes 22/6/62 27/6 40
100 CSR 1/8/61 49/- 58/
1,000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 5/
100 AOG 27/8/62 55/6 55
400 Wancol 11/10/62 12/8 13
400 Nightingale 17/10/62 14/11 18
400 Functional 2/11/62 7/7 1
400 Jacoby Mitchell 12/11/62 15/- II
200 Waugh &
Josephson 14/11/62 16/6 I)
2,000 LN'C ctg. 23/11/62 2/8 3
100 Hotyman Woods 26/11/62 1/3
300 Harden & Johnson 3/12/62 37/- 41
1,000 Alliance Pet. 10/12/62 1/-
200 ICI ctg 7/1/63 33/- 33
100 J. Lysaght 7/1/63 59/6 58
1,000 Tasman Dry
Cleaner rts. 7/1/63 2d.
Retailers observed
1%/lelbourne stores have been son#
what indignantly denying rumoi
that for once in a while they failed i
post better results for Christmas salt
than in the previous year. The Bulleti
is not inclined to argue one way or tl
other about this but doing the rounds!
Christmas eve when most of the commf
cial houses, including banks, insurant
companies and, of course, the Sto
Exchange were dead to the world all
it did seem that the ranks of shoppf
were on the thin, if not very thin, sfl
In fact it was quite a pleasure to find t!
shopping at the last minute (as usuff
one had elbow room to spare, even
Myers. Whether this will show up int'
accounts of stores ruling off their boo
at the end of this month or in the inter!
reports of the others is another mat!'


One to buy
CSR—SUGAR LEADER
IF investors can jump into the 20s.
shares of Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Ltd at around 595. whrle they are escalat-
ing to higher levels, they should be well
pleased.
The holiday period gave the market
an opportunity to re-think the sugar
business, and the shares came on in the
New Year 2s. higher than the closing
for 1962.
Principal factor motivating this price
rise was, no doubt, the official announce-
ment that Australia should earn an extra
£l3 million from export sugar sales out
of the 1962 crop, giving us an export
income of at least £47 million. Firm
sales have been made for nearly all the
record 1.2 million tons of sugar available
for export.
Moreover, the Cuban crisis has forced
world sugar prices up to £A4S 12s. 6d.,
compared with the January 1962 price
of £A24 13s. 9d. This rise also reflects
the realisation in the sugar trade that
excessive world stocks of sugar are a
thing of the past.
In the financial year to June 30, 1962,
the UK accounted for 56 p.c. of Austra-
lian sugar exports, Canada 15 p.c., USA
10 p.c., Japan 10 p.c., New/Zealand 6
p.c., Hong Kong 2 p.c. and Australian
Territories 1 p.c.
Japan expects her sugar consumption
to double within ten years, and from
Australia’s 1963 sugar crop she has con-
tracted to buy 300.000 tons, approaching
Britain's contract purchase of 315,000
tons. USA is also likely to absorb much
more of our production.
CSR, as the miller for one-fifth of the
total Australian production of raw sugar,
the marketer (on behalf of the Queens-
land Government) of 97 p.c. of the
pool's raw sugar, the only raw sugar
miller and exporter in Fiji, and the iole
refiner in New Zealand, must be a major
beneficiary from this improving world
situation.
The company's year ends on March
Jl, and the half-yearly report to Octo-
ber, while quoting no figures for financial
results, was all sweetness and light in the
sugar activities of the group.
The higher 9i p.c. dividend paid in
1961-62 was confirmed by the interim
Tf p.c. We Would not be among the sur-
prised if the 1963 rate was up to a nicer-
looking 10 p.c.
The diversified interests, chemicals
an d building materials, have not such
.healthy prospects as the traditional sugar
business, but at least markets for these
should be rather better than in 1961-62.
Factory capacity in the Pyneboard
Oberon venture (60 p.c. owned by CSR)
jWill again be increased early in 1963,
and Pyneboard (Gippsland) 50 p.c.
owned is expected to begin operations
early this year.
But the improving tone of the sugar
market is our primary reason for recom-
mending CSR shares to our readers at
this juncture.
The contributing shares, paid to 10s.
with 15s. (including ss. premium) to pay
on April 1, are the result of the one-for-
seven issue at 50 p.c. premium made in
August. If there is more than 15s. 6d.
margin between the contribs and the
fully-paids. the contribs are the better
buy.
Merchants bubbles over
npRUE to its intimation early last month
A of spreading into other fields,
Marchants. Victorian cordial makers, an-
nounced early in the New Year it had
taken over four proprietaries Fruit
Processing Plant. Auto-Pak, Oil Fired
Equipment and Sunar Air Conditioning
—all removed from the pop and fizz
world. Cost of the deals was 90,000 of
its ss. shares at par. These are now
around 7s. so on market values the deal
was worth about £31,500, not a lot,
perhaps, against present paid-up capital
(including the issue for the deal) of
£444,275.
Authorised capital was increased from
£1 million to £2.5 million last year and
the market is expecting a new issue to
shareholders soon. The company is en-
joying a good summer sales season in
Victoria and from its extension to Syd-
ney through Zyp aerated >vaters, but still
has liquidity problems which the new
issue would help to ease. The year ending
March should provide better results
than for last term, for which 10 p.c. was
paid and confirmed by a 5 p.c. interim
last September.
Rocklea prefs. speculation
"Orisbane based Rocklea Spinning Mills
Ltd has not paid a dividend on either
the ordinary or preference shares since
formation in 1948. /
Accumulated losses between 1951 and
1954 totalled £104,085 and teeny profits
earned every year since then have been
insufficient to make up the deficit.
However, the out'ook is now more
favorable and directors are considering
plans for reconstruction of the capital.
However, before this can be done the
5 p.c. cumulative preference arrears of
12s. 6d. a 20s. share must be repaid or
compensated in some way agreeable to
the holders.
These shares, currently on offer at
4s. 6d. with no buyers above ,35., seem
to have a certain speculative element.
the world of business


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
KAURI TIMBER CO. LTD.
"TOUCH NOT A SINGLE BOUGH"
Tnvestors who subscribed'to the one-
A for-four par issue made by Kauri
Timber Co. Ltd in late 1960 must count
themselves amongst the unluckiest victims
of the notorious economic squeeze.
Books closed for this issue on Novem-
ber 4, and applications were payable on
December 5. Those who paid up—and
they were encouraged to do so by a pro-
minent stockbroker—did not realise then
that the axe had fallen on their company.
Between those two dates the Treasurer
had made pronouncements which were to
create the severest depression in the
housing section of the building industry
since the early thirties.
After two years of unprofitable trad-
ing directors have now determined that
a capital reconstruction is necessary to
enable payment of fixed term borrowings
totalling £2.9 million, which fall due in
the next five years.
The plan is to form a holding com-
pany, Kauri Holdings Ltd, with a nominal
capital of £4 million divided into ss.
shares. Holders of each current £1 share
will receive one ss. share in the new
company.
This, strangely, is history repeating it-
self. After the collapse of the land boom
in the 90s, Kauri, which was originally
formed in 1888 in Victoria, wrote off
7s. from all the shares of the company.
As the 20s. shares are currently bring-
ing about 6s. on the market, this latest
capital reduction will put a nominal value
on the shares reasonably in line with their
current negotiable value, as the chair-
man explained in his 1962 review.
Shareholders will then be approached
to subscribe to a 5-for-4 par issue of
ss. shares which would increase paid
capital from £995,131 to £2,239,045.
Directors are currently negotiating to
have this issue underwritten. They esti-
mate, and this has been endorsed by an
independent investigator, that the com-
pany could pay a dividend of not less
than 10 p.c. on the new capital structure,
from and including the half-year com-
mencing March 1963. (In other words,
no dividend would be paid in respect of
the first half of 1962-63.) The overall
asset value in the reconstructed company
would be Bs. Id. per ss. share.
These proposals depend on the con-
sent of noteholders to a temporary ex-'
tension of the ratio of liabilities to
tangible assets beyond the three-fifths
permitted by the Trust Deed, between the
date of sale of six subsidiary companies
and the introduction of new capital.
Certain notes, amounting to £750,000
which were issued in 1958, carried an
option exercisable in December 1963, to
convert in February 1964 at par to ord-
inary shares, or repayable in cash on
August 31, 1964. The noteholders will
be asked to release their rights to a share
conversion.
How did the company get to such an
impasse?
Kauri has a long history of ordinary
dividend payments, with omissions only
in two depression years, 1931 and 1932.
A loss of £15,516 was incurred in 1957,
but dividends were maintained.
The company had developed into the
largest timber miller in Australia and
New Zealand, a big importer and expor-
ter of timbers, and had plywood factories
in Queensland and- Victoria. Particle
board and builders' hardware was also
part of the group’s activities.
Extensive freehold forest lands were
owned in Tasmania, South Australia,
Southern Queensland and New Zealand,
cutting rights in Mount Gambier (SA),
forestry permits throughout Australia and
New Zealand, and logging concessions in
the Solomon Islands.
Several businesses were taken over in
recent years to assure continuity of sup-
plies of softwoods, to broaden distribu-
tion of timber and hardware, and to
diversify into steel merchandising.
These acquisitions, plus a one-for-one
par issue in 1955, a one-for-five par
issue in 1956 and the one-for-four par
issue of 1960, took issued ordinary capi-
tal from £750,000 to £3,980,524 in six
years.
The slackness in the housing industry,
plus severe imports competition pro-
duced a trading loss of £353,964 in 1960-
61 after a profitable first half year. Stocks
and debtors rose, imposing such a strain
on liquidity that almost all NZ interests
were sold to The Fletcher Trust and
Investment Co. Ltd as at June 30, 1961,
for approximately £2 million cash. But
it involved a capital loss of £493,445.
In March 1961 the South Australian
steel merchandising subsidiary, J. Sankev
Robinson Ltd, which was purchased fivp
years earlier, was sold.
Trading for the year to August 31,
1962 resulted in a loss of £740,420,
slightly ameliorated by a £32,707 sur-
plus on the sale of assets.
In recent years directors have admitted
to dissatisfaction over the performance
of some subsidiaries, and it is now made
public that some have been responsible
for considerable losses in recent years
because of location or unfavourable de-
velopments since acquisition. The finan-
cial climate has not been conducive to
their early disposal, but directors now
calculate that they can be sold, and to-
gether with the £1.25 million fresh capi-
tal, will ensure repayment of all liabili-
ties to creditors on the due dates. Their
disposal will involve a capital loss of £l.l
million, which explains the directors’ re-
luctance to act earlier.
Hopeful straws for share and note-
holders to clutch are that directors assert
trading losses have ceased in this current
financial year, and the new drying and
machining facilities in North West Tas-
mania will materially assist liquidity be-
cause of the shorter timber drying cycle,
and the more efficient handling of timber
now possible in the group's Melbourne
yards.
Pending confirmation of these pro-
posals and underwriting of the new issue,
the market for Kauri securities should be
very quiet.
The timber industry, as a whole, bears
careful watching by investors. Alteration
of accounts does not affect the basic
illness, which is laying low Kauri as well
as other timber companies. ‘‘Touch not a
single bough” may well prove the wisest
course.
The Bulletin has stressed previously
that these problems will have to be tack-
led on an industry basis, rather than by
individual units within the industry as
is now the case. There is, we feel, an
urgent need for wholesale rationalisation
involving timber sawmillers, merchants
and importers. Perhaps it will come to
pass; and, if so, Kauri will reap benefits.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY £'ooo
August 31 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 7769 8586 10207 8867 7855
Less current liabilities 5382 5242 6875 4331 4059
Working capital 2387 3344 3332 4536 3760
Investments 303 315 357 68 1®
Fixed assets 5284 5328 6848 4640 4325
Intangibles 1374 1432 820 820 -
9348 10419 11357 10064 8268
Loan capital 2509 3549 3648 3159 2901
Minority interest 909 925 1062 29 28
Preference capital 395 360 325 289 289
Ordinary capital 2471 2471 2881 3981 398
Reserves 3064 3114 3441 2606 1069
9348 10419 11357 10064 8268
Depreciation n/a 440 473 293 288
Taxation n/a 214 354 • 8 *
Net profit 243 257 356 Dr 354 Dr74i
Net profit for ords. 223 237 326
Dividends 194 198 230 '
Surplus 29 39 96
Earning rate 9.0 9.6 11.7
Dividend rate 8 8 8 ■—
Price earnings
| ratio (a) 11.0 10.6 8.1 "
Dividend yield (a) 8.0 7.8 8.4
High price (b) 22/3 22/6 23/- 19/- %
Low price (b) 19/3 18/6 18/9 10/6 f
(a) End of December, month accounts presented
(b) Same calendar year. j


TEACHER—
CRANBROOK SCHOOL
BELLEVUE HILL, N.S.W.
| BIOLOGY TEACHER: Preferably an Honours
Graduate, required second term, 1963, to intro-
duce Biology in the School and to establish a
Biology Department in new £lOO,OOO Science
[ Nock. Salary in accordance with qualifications
on< l experience. Married and single accommoda-
available. Write giving full particulars to
Headmaster.
All Souls' School, Charters Towers
. Ranted: Master to teach Senior Physics
Middle School Mathematics, com-
mencing January, 1963, resident or non-
Bsiaent, award salary, superannuation
For particulars apply Head-
University Appointments
UNIVERSITY OF MELBOURNE
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC HISTORY
LECTURER OR SENIOR LECTURER IN THE
HISTORY OF ECONOMIC THEORY
Applications are invited for the position of
Lecturer or Senior Lecturer in the History of
Economic Theory.
The appointee will be expected to conduct
teaching and research in the History of
Economic Theory and will be given time to
conduct research.
The present salary range is—
Lecturer £A1,650 x £lO5 £A2,450
Senior Lecturer £A2,450 x £llO £A3,000.
Commencing salary will be determined accord-
ing to qualifications.
Superannuation similar to F.S.S.U. in Great
Britain will be provided. Housing finance is
available.
Further information and the conditions of
appointment may be obtained from the Regis-
trar, University of Melbourne, Parkville, N. 2.,
Victoria, and applications should reach him
by 31st May, 1963.
F. H. JOHNSTON,
Registrar.
CANBERRA GRAMMAR
SCHOOL
Canberra, A.C.T.
Assistant master to teach Mathematics
required 18th September, 1963.
Apply to the Headmaster, stating
qualification and experience.
Legal Notices
TO: GORDON HENRY PINCH formerly of
Narromine in the State of New South Wales
but whose present address is not known.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife THELMA
ALISON PINCH has instituted proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of Victoria
in Suit No. 1837 of 1962 for -a dissolution of
her marriage to you on the ground of deser-
tion and also seeking orders with respect to
custody, maintenance for the children and
permanent maintenance AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that unless you file an Answer in
the Office of the Registrar of the Supreme
Court at Melbourne on or before the 19th day
of February, 1963, the case may proceed in
your absence. ROYSTON T. CAHIR of 475
Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
TO: BRIAN FRANCIS RYAN of parts un-
known TAKE NOTICE that FAYE LYNETTE
RYAN has instituted proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Victoria for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion and separation and FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that unless you file an
answer herein in the office of the prothono-
tary Supreme Court Melbourne on or before
the 19th day of February 1963 the petition
may proceed in your absence. D. J. COM-
MONS. 443, Law Courts Place, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: MARIE THERESA KEMBREY.—TAKE
NOTICE that NOEL KEMBREY has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1507 of 1962 on the
ground of separation. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce Regis-
try, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 22nd day of
February, 1963 and obtain a copv of the
petition without charge from MESSRS. F. C.
HALLAM & CO., Solicitors of 21 Vincent Street,
Cessnock in the State of New South Wales.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Missing Persons
Unless the Public Trustee receives informa-
tion as to the existence of Mary Murphy or of
any person claiming through her on or before
the 28th day of February, 1963, the Public
Trustee shall proceed to distribute the estate
of Kenneth Alfred Woodbridge (formerly
known as Brian Murphy) deceased as if the
said Mary Murphy had predeceased the said
deceased without issue. The said Mary Murphy
was born in Melbourne on the 20th February
1905 and was in October 1931 residing at 29
Dandenong Road, Caulfield, Victoria, and in
1934 C/o Post Office, Binalong, New South
Wales.
AUSTRALIAN WOOLLEN MILLS
LIFT AFTER TWO BAD YEARS
Australian Woollen Mills Ltd
made a strong recovery last year
after the two most difficult years in its
post-war history had marred its profit-
earning record 1959-60 and 1960-
61.
Group sales showed a decided rise —•
particularly in the second half of the
year, when turnover was 30 p.c. higher
than in the previous corresponding
period. Sales increase for the full year
was 21 p.c.
Poor results by the Stamina offshoot
severely affected results in 1957-58 but
since then the subsidiaries have operated
profitably.
) This has had the effect of lifting group
profit from £115,229 in that year to
last year's £ 161,666.
But in the intervening four years profit
touched £207,678 in 1958-59 but then
receded to £117.525 in 1960-61, when
sales fell sharply. As issued capital has
remained unchanged since flotation at
£208,000 8 p.c. W pref and £1,256,000
in 20s. ords earning rate on ordinary
| capital after pref-charge of £16,640 has
moved from 7.5 p.c. in 1958 to 15.2 p.c.
the following year and was 11.5 p.c.
last year.
Following the slump in 1961, ordinary
} dividend was cut to 6 p.c. after six years
at 11 p.c. Last year’s recovery saw a
dividend lift to 8 p.c. (33 p.c. and 43
p.c.) and if current conditions continue
the payment would go up again in the
present year.
The company’s policy is to keep the
dividends at a ‘‘reasonable” rate and at
the same time maintain a constant im-
provement in liquidity. This latter how-
ever is not easy because of the commen-
dable policy of keeping plant and
machinery up to date. At September 30,
the company faced capital expenditure
of £71,030 and benefits from this would
not be received for from 12 to 18
months.
There will be no difficulty in finding
this amount although actual liquids
available at September 30 were small.
Reflecting the additional business,
debtors were up from £751,105 to
£875,027 and stocks from £1,212,813
to £1,252,801. Financing these, bank
overdraft was up from £50,805 to
£161,071, and creditors from £73,513
fo £169,636.
After payment of the 1961-62 divi-
dends (which absorbed £117,120),
£13,000 was provided for accrued
holiday pay, £20,000 transferred to
general reserves and £12,782 carried
forward as surplus profit.
At September 30, the general reserve
of £1,195,000 almost equalled the
ordinary capital. Share premium reserve
of £lOO.OOO has remained unchanged
since flotation while pre-acquisition
profits (from the Stamina acquisition)
stood at £70,271.
Total reserves of £1,732,117 sub-
ject to intangibles of £213,179 gave a
net assets backing of 445. 2d. to the
ordinary shares (435. 7d. in 1960-61).
Current outlook for the company is
excellent sales have continued to in-
crease although production has expe-
rienced difficulty in meeting demand due
to a lack of skilled labor. However,
forward orders held will ensure an in-
creased turnover for at least the next
three months.
The shares last sold about 245. to show
a dividend yield of 6.7 p.c. and an earn-
ings yield of 9.6 p.c. The shares were as
low as 19s, early in the year.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY £'ooo
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 2159 2095 2035 1964 2130
Less current
liabilities 286 379 384 272 530
Working capital 1873 1716 1651 1692 1600
Investments 7 —•—-
Inter co. balances 4 36 66 —45 58
Fixed assets 984 1151 1208 1303 1325
•Intangibles , 203 213 213 213 213
Total assets 3063 3116 3138 3163 3196
Represented by
Ordinary capital 1256 1256 1256 1256 1256
Pref. capital 208 208 208 208 208
Reserves 1599 1652 1674 1699 1732
3063 3116 3138 3163 3196
Depreciation n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 66
Taxation n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 1 10
Net profit 115 208 177 118 162
Profit for ords. 98 191 160 101 145
Dividends 138 138 138 75 100
Surplus —4O 53 22 26 45
Capital profit 1
Earning rate p.c. 7.9 15.2 13.1 8.1 11.5
Dividend rate p.c. 11 11 11 6 8
Dividend yield (a) 9.2 6 9 9.2 6.3 6.7
High price 27/6 33/6 41/- 27/- 25/6
Low price 22/9 24/6 24/- 18/6 19/-
(a) End of December.


Feiffer
-TFe first ckwme touo mc thc host
IMfOetAMT issue WAS PUTTIO6 A STOP
TO WFSTCRM RF7RFAT If) THf «LP WAR.
Thcsfcomp caopiratf toioue tie
HOST IMROISTAMT (SSUf WAS TOU6HBKIHS
OUR “STAMP AOAIMST RUSSIA.
THF FIRST CAWIPATC tOiP MB 106 W t>
comm wclear tesw6 um m
F&AC&oV A FOOL PROOF A6R66Mm.
tF£ secern cmvAte toco mb toe hap
to IRCR6AS6 MR ARMS W66X AS LOR3
]$ peeomiotfs rfmauofp froituss.
TH6 FIRST CAfJP/PATF 1&IP MF THAT IT WAST/MF
WF 6TOPFFP R66?6C\\K6 IRT6RMATIOMAL- A&R66'
wm that flto? at commwjist som&ioti.
THF SFCOMP CAUWATF TOLP MF THAT WF LAH too
MAU(( of m tfftw Remmmes ow thf aw.
m\ cMWAw? tap mf that a w>
pARtq s'Tftfm w as me Keystone of
a mocmn m mo mattfr. which
CMC OF THEM I A6R66P WITH [T m>
MH wry-to me .
SO
l
roused
A
COIM.
It'S VM vm
to pemcr
OZHOCRKH.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 727
ACROSS
I—Queenslanders bribe saints in secret. (11)
7—Business bee for a male swan. (3)
9 —Ram against spin; overthrows are their objective.
(15)
10 — One doctor is a Welsh hero. (5)
11— Shut near feathers. (5, 4)
12— Dover spoilt one not at all rare. (8)
14—Voluble character doesn’t allow the reverse. (6)
18 — An ancient Shakespearean flag. (6)
19 — Sydney suburb is way ahead of the bloke. (4, 4)
21—See some curve with one motherless growth. (9)
23 Tyre coupled with this city
profile by the sound of it. (5)
24 The P.M.G. expects you to
pay extra for this bit of fast
bowling. (7, 8)
25 Taint contradicted, so sit
back. (3)
26 — Careless batting for such as
work on and off. (6, 5)
DOWN
1— Drug counter in a hotel nip-
ped one. (9)
2 Sin's never enough for this
place in Scotland. (9)
3 Acts before their passage
beaks. (5)
4 Spotting anything but the
sweet cake-topping. (8)
s—Ron got confused by this
quetzal. (6)
6 A test meal arranged for a
deadlock spouse who is drear-
ily familiar? (9)
7 A capital tune in company.
(5)
8 — Member of the ship’s com-
pany shows an American
beau the light of day. (5)
13 —Somewhat canine gold
Eisenhower. (3-4)
15— Wide Australian war historian
is a vegetable. (5, 4)
16— King George and East finish
affirmative stains of grassy
hue. (5, 4)
17 —Thanks given to our tennis
champion on a battlefield in
Spain. (8)
20 — Police directions in thickets.
(6)
21 — Split hundred remaining. (5)
22 Tackle prose arrangements.
(5)
23 Very dashing hit without con-
necting. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 726


PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE OF COMMENT AND OPINION
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
ABOUT TANNER, BOADICEA, DISCUS AND CELLARMASTER
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
ABOUT ITS LIVELY FEATURES, LOCAL AND OVERSEAS NEWS
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
ABOUT ITS INTERVIEWS AND PERSONALITY PROFILES
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
i his hm 11 im in
• • •
AND MORE AND MORE PEOPLE ARE BUYING IT
MAKE SURE
OF RECEIVING
YOUR BULLETIN
REGULARLY
Just fill in and forward
this subscription form
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to be delivered to me each
week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick (V) whichever method of delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct subscription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for months
subscription to THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea): 1 year £2/12/-; \ year, £l/6/-,
post free. British Dominions, £3/6/-; other countries, £3/16/-.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS: Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.: 1 year,
£2/i2/-; i year, £l/6/- (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques


The wise Australian
buys Australian
