

The Bulletin
Australia 2/-, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION -EST.IBBQ
MELBOURNE'S FABULOUS FOOTBALL


w
if
m
n
ex
m
w
%
m
/,
i
.
/
m
%
%
:
Geon
makes
a call to
are used by Olympic Cables
coaxial and telephone cables
of the P.M.G.
Shr Geon vinyl resin is used in the coaxial communication cables already
laic o Perth, the same type cable that soon can make inter-city telecasts
po: resistance to weathering and heat, electrical and mechanical
prc . ;le homogeneous covering. In manifold electrical installations, Geon
me jmidity or ageing problems, no more corrosion, provides brightly-
co tion coding. In industry, Geon improves products or evolves new
on product we can help improve or develop?
E icH-C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
Koro ; or Melbourne. Telephone 65-8221 or 2. Kalamazoo House, 182-186 Blues Point Road,
North i hone 92-6319. GEON Agencies in W.A., S.A. and QTd. Harrisons & Crosfield (A.N.Z.) LIMITED
M 5525


National Notebook
Progress
jC\>R those concerned with the progress
of expatriated Australian art we are
pleased to report that, according to Bri-
tish expert Sir Kenneth Clark, “self-con-
scious Australianness is giving way to
self-conscious internationalism.” Accord-
ing to the Contemporary Art Society’s
bulletin, ,Sir Kenneth said this when he
opened an exhibition of Australian work
at Folkstone.
Sidney Nolan has recently moved from
Australia to Africa for inspiration. In
“Queen” magazine Nolan has this to say
on his “African Journey” exhibition,
now at the Marlborough Gallery,
London:
“The main thing that struck me, the
first time I saw the animals in their free
state, is that they look
like new works of art —
shining as if they’d just
been painted by someone
whose name I didn’t
know. Then I realised that
they are beautiful, and
marked in the way they
are, so that they can look at each other;
and for the first time I understood that
they must have an aesthetic sense, too,
and that in painting them I merely hope
to participate in this thing between them.
I feel that there's a kind of painting to
be done with animals and natural camou-
flage that would be, in a sense, a no-
painting; there would be a total dis-
appearance of the image but if you
stared at the painting long enough, the
image would eventually waft up.”
Fine Line
YI/e had always rather hoped to read
that the name of the newest Broad-
way musical was “Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner and Smith Inc.” It seems such a
catchy title. However, the name of New
York’s best-known stock and share-
brokers has recently been seen in ad-
vertisements on the financial pages of
Australian papers.
This has led to speculation that Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith Inc.
might intend to open here. However,
one advertisement, headed “The fine line
between doubt and decision,” merely
invites Australian shareholders in US and
Canadian companies to sample the work
of the firm’s research department, which
will supply advice on American stocks
or on the portfolios of American stocks
held by Australians.
If Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and
Smith Inc. did open here, it would be of
great interest to all lovers of literature.
Their advertisements characteristically
begin with a fine, rolling quotation from
one of the big names, the literary figures
who inspire confidence rather than those
who get talked about in the literary
pages. A bit from Johnson, Thoreau, or
Jane Austen is followed by a homily on
wise investment.
Local stockbrokers will certainly not
be able to compete with Merrill Lynch,
Pierce, Fenner and Smith Inc. as essay-
ists. Local Exchange rules limit adver-
tisements by brokers to the space of a
double column by one inch in which they
may state only the name of the firm,
names of partners, address, telephone
number and the fact that they are stock-
brokers.
If local stockbrokers cannot follow
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith
Inc. into creative writing,
there are one or two other
ways in which they may
care to emulate them.
The firm publishes an
annual balance sheet
(American stockbrokers
are required to furnish a
balance sheet to the US Securities and
Exchange Commission, but they don’t
have to publish it). Also if the firm or
its members have an interest in the se-
curities of a company, the firm discloses
that interest and its size in any
report it issues on the company.
Distinguished Visitor
only woman judge at the Mel-
bourne Film Festival which started
last Friday is Mrs Kasniko Kawakita,
wife of the president of one of Japan’s
biggest film companies. Mrs Kawakita
flew to Melbourne from France where
she had been a member of the Japanese
delegation at the Cannes Film Festival.
Each year she attends the Cannes, Ber-
lin and Venice festivals and has been ap-
pearing on film festival juries all over
the world since 1956. She is usually away
from her home, near Tokyo, for six
months of the year and estimates she
sees about 400 films annually.
This year’s Melbourne Festival is being
held in the Palais Theatre, St Kilda, and
runs to June 15. In all, 25 features and
110 shorts are being screened and 30
countries are represented. Mrs Kawakita
has great expectations of the Melbourne
Festival. She pointed out all the other
festivals she had attended gave every
country the right to submit an entry, no
matter how poor. However, films could
only be entered in the Melbourne Festi-
val by invitation. “I feel that the Mel-
bourne Festival will have a greater per-
Page
POPE JOHN XXIII 23
Shocking the traditionalists
Mr. Whitlam v. The Base? 6
*S»
Melbourne’s Footy Fever 12
The Townsville - Magnetic Island
Swim 15
Broken Hill: Behind the Barrier.. 18
Graeme Bell Makes a Decision .. 20
The Salable Sneer of Allan
Cuthbertson ;. 22
Berlin: Two May Days 26
Slave Camps: Two Versions . . 36
The Formentor Literary Prices,
1963 39
Another “1080” Poison Scare . k . 40
Caution Needed in Budget Talks.. 41
Price-Cutting War in Cars ...... 47
•
TANNER 4
PI AIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 6
AROUND MELBOURNE ... II
SPORT 12
OUT AND ABOUT 18
OVERSEAS 22
FORUM 27
LETTERS 29
REVIEWS 22
FEIFFER . . 25
RED PAGE 20
MAN ON THE LAND 40
WORLD OF BUSINESS ... 41
CROSSWORD 58
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone 27 5971.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone 2 0666 Ext. 380
Vol. 85
No. 4347


centage of high-quality films than I have
seen in other cities,” she said.
However, any reputation that Australia
enjoys overseas for feature films, Mrs
Kawakita said, rests solely on “The Over-
landers.” She thinks we should make
more features, adding “If I could find
a suitable script, my husband’s company
would have no hesitation in making a
picture here.”
Parochial
TTas the day of the parish-hall gone,
along with the busty sopranos and
moustachioed baritone balladists who
used to fill them? The rector of a Laun-
ceston suburb, the Rev. Mr E. Esling,
think so. His parish of St Leonards has
been unable either to raise the £3OO to
pay off accrued interest or even to give
the hall away. Mr Esling has been unable
to find any organisation willing to take it
over as a community centre.
“The parish hall belongs to an era
when churches were expected to pro-
vide entertainment for parishioners,” he
said. “Now people have television and
cars.”
After the Asp
A series of mishaps greeted the arrival
of Seymour Poe, executive vice-
president of 20th Century-Fox, who
arrived in Sydney last week to in-
vestigate the staffing and financing of
Fox’s Australian branch. First of all, an
Alsatian dog, which was featured in the
Sunday Press, arrived instead of Mr Poe’s
luggage (David Jones obliged by open-
ing up the shop on the Day of Rest to
provide Mr Poe with wearables for the
Monday Press conference). Secondly, a
reporter had him saying that Elizabeth
Taylor was “a dumpy hausfrau.” An
angry denial, followed by a statement
that Elizabeth Taylor was one of the
world’s “most beautiful” women, ap-
peared on the front page of a Sydney
newspaper. At the Press conference,
Poe was heckled by one or two people
spoiling for a quarrel.
In the discreet Watteau - and - gold
rooms of Hoyts Theatres in the Plaza
Building, Poe answered questions in a
precise, dry fashion that suggested the
new kind of motion picture chief. Jerry
Wald, whose fascination was his extrava-
gant, coruscating talk a Joycean
monologue in high-pitched Brooklynese
—is dead (he went out, characteristically,
reading a novel) and the last of the pro-
ducers with “literary” notions has gone.
Nearly every script Wald had com-
missioned for Fox has been scrapped,
Zanuck has returned from the wilderness
to take over the presidency of the studio,
and the appointment of Poe a level-
headed School of Commerce graduate
with a solid gold record as producers’
representative was a smart and cal-
culating move.
Poe unhesitatingly put his finger on
the beginning of Fox’s celebrated decline.
“It was the death of Buddy Adler,” he
said. Adler, a rough diamond who
smoked too many cigars and died of
cancer several years ago, had been
responsible for the brash, vulgar, success-
ful DeLuxe color spectacles of the early
days of Cinema Scope. Calmly, Poe
described the failure of the next two
studio bosses. “There was Robert Gold-
stein, who had been stationed in England.
He failed. There was Peter Levathes,
who was called in because he had made
a big hit of the television productions
under the company’s banner. He failed,
too.”
What, precisely, had been the cause
of their failure? “They failed to see the
certain spark in a property which would
make it a world-wide success.”
What was that spark, and precisely
what would Mr Poe look for in a
property (play or novel) before he bought
it for the screen? “Well, that is a very
broad question. But you could say that
what we look for now is international
appeal.
“Today you can’t make a picture
with purely American appeal. It has to
be set in an unusual location. And you
have to bear in mind that the largest
section of the audience today is aged
between 17 and 26.”
Assuming Fox made the 63 million
dollars needed to break even with
“Cleopatra,” what future productions are
scheduled? Poe said among them were
Irving Stone’s “The Agony and the
Ecstasy,” set in Rome; Richard Hughes’
“A High Wind in Jamaica,” set in the
West Indies but probably to be shot in
Australia; Felicien Marceau’s “La Bonne
Soupe” (France) and Durrenmatt’s “The
Visit” (Central Europe). “We’re very
"All this talk about fluoridation is
poppycock!
"Interfering with the water supply, scaring
people about their teeth.


anxious to find new and exciting locales
for every film we make,” Poe concluded,
his square-cut cuff-links flashing.
Outside Looking In
Ilfrra today’s accent in the penal world
on rehabilitation rather than pun-
ishment, Victoria has made a big step
forward with its recent employment of
four paroled prisoners by the State’s
public service. Provision for the internal
education of prisoners has long been on a
broad basis.
However, as the latest number of
“Stockade,” the monthly journal pro-
duced by the prisoners at Pentridge,
points out: “Paradoxical though it may
seem to our outside readers, society it-
self would need to be educated towards
the understanding of the prisoner if the
desired result of the establishment of
convicted persons in society is to be
achieved.”
This Week’s Cover
HPhis week’s cover photograph was
kindly supplied by the Australian
National Travel Association and “Walk-
about” magazine. It was taken by an
American photographer who was most
impressed with the pictorial possibilities
of Australian Rules football and the vigor
of the game. He lay on the ground to
get this shot and has several crushed
film-tins (the tins were in his pocket at
the time) to prove it. On page 12 our
man Batman takes a look at “footy” from
a slightly greater, and safer, distance.
Tanner
"It's just a lot of people beating
their gums."
PLAIN ENGLISH
A PATIENT CHEER FOR FLUORIDE
T>Y refusing to fluoridate Sydney’s water supply the Metropolitan Water
Board has had to face a very angry Press, a few angry politicians
and a generally indifferent public. Yet, if the Board agreed to
fluoridate water supplies, there is little doubt that it would have had a
friendly Press but it may also have had a very angry public.
This is not to say that the anti-fluoridationists are right. Their best
argument is based on the principle that all schemes for mass-medication
are bad and that medication must vary from person to person; this is a
good principle but not an infallible dogma and should depend on the
evidence in each case. There is no doubt that fluoridated water does
improve the condition of children’s teeth and no evidence that it harms
anyone in any way.
But the point is that the general public is not yet persuaded of
this. The answer to the problem is not to demand impatiently that the
Government order the Board which by law and tradition is autonomous
—to do something it has refused to do. The solution is public education
and electoral campaigns.
The Board is, after all, an elected body. Apart from the Govern-
ment-appointed President and Vice-President, its five members are elected
from five constituencies made up from the 44 local councils in its area.
What the fluoridationists must do is campaign in the council electorates
to elect councillors who will elect constituents who will elect fluorida-
tionists to the Water Board. That will take time but it will mean that
in the end the public is on side. Reformers would do well to remember
that, at the moment, the public is either indifferent or hostile. Instead
of attacking the Board they should aim at winning public support.
Impatience to reform is all very well, but not at the expense of
democracy.
THE BOGLE-CHANDLER INQUEST
WHEN the NSW Coroners Act was amended three years ago many
critics regretted that the Government had not taken the opportunity
to restrict the coroner’s traditional powers to hear any evidence which
in his opinion may help him arrive at the truth about a death, even if
such evidence would not be admissible in a tiial. It was claimed that
the existing law encouraged publicising evidence which did not help
the coroner but which ruined innocent people’s lives.
The conduct of the recent Bogle-Chandler inquest must surely give
these critics occasion to pause. In that case the coroner used his
discretion to ban publication of some evidence and on other occasions
refused to let certain evidence be given. Some might even say he went
too far the other way. But his conduct of the case shows that the
proposal to confine all" evidence to what would be admitted in a trial is
an unnecessarily radical solution. A magistrate may sometimes abuse
his discretion, but this is only a risk, not a standard practice, and it is a
risk worth running to ensure that no man’s death is ever hushed up by
authority and that all possibly relevant evidence is heard, even if it
would not pass the strictest rules of evidence.


THIS AUSTRALIA
ALP CONFERENCE
Mr Whitlaim V. The Base?
"Please explain”
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
GOUGH WHITLAM
“ Suicidal”
If the debacle suffered by one of the
top echelon of the Left wing of the
NSW branch of the ALP is any indica-
tion of what is going to happen next
weekend at the annual June Conference
of the ALP, then the Left wing is in for
a humiliating time.
The Left plans to try to force a wide
debate on the American base in WA.
One resolution from the Darlinghurst
West branch which could seriously
embarrass the controllers of the NSW
branch as well as the Deputy Federal
Leader, Mr Whitlam, says this: “Con-
ference declares its full support for the
Federal Executive’s plan for a nuclear
free zone in the Southern Hemisphere
and declares its full solidarity with the
sentiments expressed by the Deputy
Leader, Mr Whitlam, at last year’s
inspiring Labor Peace Rally in the
Sydney Town Hall at which he said: ‘lf
we have nuclear weapons in Australia
we are inviting retaliation and inviting
our neighbors also to obtain them’.”
The last sentence in the resolution
reports Mr Whitlam as saying. For us
to manufacture or to otherwise acquire
nuclear weapons would be suicidal.”
The Left will ask Mr Whitlam to ex-
plain this statement in view of the fact
that he found “nothing inconsistent” in
establishment of the radio com-
munitions base in WA from which
nuclear - powered submarines will oper-
ate carrying Polaris missiles.
However, for the second year in suc-
cession, Leftists will be without one of
their top lieutenants Arthur Gietzelt,
President of the Sutherland Shire Coun-
cil. He was unable to get to last year’s
conference because of trouble in the local
branches. (The district was not represent-
ed at all.) This year his supporters have
worked patiently to build up the branches
in the area to help get him sufficient sup-
port to win the right to attend conference
as a delegate, but to no avail. His ticket
was beaten by 11 votes to 8. The three
delegates elected will not be supporters
of the Left wing next weekend. Mr
Gietzelt seems destined to watch the
proceedings this year and perhaps for
a few more years from the public
gallery.
His only other chance of getting to
conference is for the NSW Miscellaneous
Workers’ Union to credential him. As
he joined the union only last year this
is certain to lead to internal troubles for
the union which already has its problems.
The Left wing, therefore, is in a hope-
less position. Once again it will have Mr
J. HefTernan, Federal Secretary of the
Sheetmetal Workers’ Union, as its floor
leader —to the delight of the Right
wing. They say he is worth a lot of
votes to them every time he gets on his
feet. His extremism is too extreme even
for the vast majority of Left wingers.
This puts the Left behind, before the
Conference even gets under way, and a
conservative estimate of the strength of
the present Officers’ support is said to
be two to one, maybe even five to two
and at the worst six to four. There will
be some 700 delegates, the majority of
them controlled by anti - Communist
unions with some Left-wing and Com-
munist - controlled unions split, even
though only slightly.
The “Chloe” Controversy
80 Years Ago: June 9, 1883
A propos of the “Chloe’ contro-
A versy, the following letter ap-
peared in the “Argus” of May 24:
Sir, I think there is one point in
regard to ‘Chloe’ that your corres-
fo°™rlLt a t V he Pierre has a strTcrtv
and positively moral tendency in
promoting matrimony. The artist
shows us (I write as a bachelor) what
a really beautiful thing a young
maiden is a matter that I am sure
you will agree with me in stating we
can otherwise know nothing of except
by hearsay, and I maintain that if
anything can fan the incipient sparks
of affection into such a flame of love
as shall induce a young man to go
straightway and commit matrimony
it is the sight of ‘Chloe’ . . . “But,”
writes another man, “where are you
going t 0 get your Ch|oe? ch|oe never
pi " Ched h “ Wais ‘ in with a corset '
whll .': ,h . e "> aid a PP>i. ed a knee to the
sma "L^ er ,^ m order to rope
** U P' *oere is not a single corn on
taat P rett Y little foot at the water’s
edge. When a man marries, it is the
pld case of the pig in a sack. If
‘Chloe’ be an incentive to marriage,
she ought to be taken up, you know,
for obtaining bachelors on false pre-
tences.” (“Chloe” today—page 11.)
NZ COMMUNISTS
Going Chinese
“ Standard-bearer in Oceania ”
FROM A NEW ZEALAND CORRESPONDENT
VTew Zealanders are not used to being
in the centre of the struggle of
Khrushchev and Mao Tse Tung for world
Communist hegemony. But in April,
when the minute Communist Party of
NZ (500 to 600 members) held its Nat-
ional Conference in Auckland, protagon-
ists of both Russia and Red China ar-
rived and attempted to gain the local
party.’s allegiance.
In view of the fact that Red China
sent a member of its Central Committee,
Mr Liu Ning I, it was felt that Russia
was somewhat cavalier, doing the job in
a second-hand fashion by sending as its
emissary the Australian Communist, Mr
W. J. Brown. While Mr Brown let it be
known that he would one day be No. 2
in Australia to Mr L. Aarons’ No. 1, he


was still not of the calibre of Mr Liu
Ning I.
The NZ Party has always acted under
the brotherly guidance of the Australian
Communist Party but lately its Secre-
tary-General, Mr V. G. Wilcox, has
taken an independent line; as Mr
Sharkey and Mr Aarons once more em-
braced the Russian line in Australia so
Mr Wilcox moved NZ closer to China.
Under the circumstances it can readily
be seen that Mr Brown was a boy on a
man’s errand. But he spoke well, if a
little patronisingly.
But Mr Liu Ning I opened by stating
that CP of NZ was the standard-bearer
of Marxism in Oceania, a role previously
preserved by the CP of A. His flattery
was more sophisticated and subtle than
Mr Brown’s, but as far as the Russian
line and Mr Khrushchev was concerned
he was adamant; in a polite way he in-
ferred they could both go to hell. In
conclusion he said: “Dear comrades, as
you know, the Communist Party of China
and the Communist Party of New Zea-
land tak6 the same stand on the safe-
guarding of the unity of the international
Communist movement.
It was obvious he already knew he was
the victor.
Mr Wilcox’s speech was a masterly ex-
position of the Chinese line. He was as
uncompromisingly anti-Khrushchev as
Mao Tse Tung himself.
Mr Wilcox cleared up any doubts as
to who was the victor when early this
month he packed a bag and went to Pe-
king for a holiday.
FLUORIDATION
Putting Holes into Teeth
The antediluvians
S. HAVILAND
Puzzling
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
nnHE State Government of NSW last
week faced yet another demand for
legislation, this time for positive moves
towards the fluoridation of the State’s
water supplies. The demand came after
the Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and
Drainage Board voted “that no action be
taken at this stage to fluoridate the
Board’s water supply. Arguments put
forward against fluoridation in the ugly
veneer - panelled city boardroom to a
record roll-up of pressmen (the Board,
which spends £24 million in public
money a year, has no public gallery)
were not distinguished for their clarity.
The final voting was four-two, with
the two ALP members of the Board
strongly in favor of fluoridation and
speaking against the negative motion.
Mr de Burgh, an elderly retired
Water Board engineer, who represents
the true-blue North Shore councils con-
stituency on the Board, gave a warning
that “it was quite possible that a lot of
apparent old age (in fluoridated water
towns) was due to fluoride rather than
genuine running down of the bodies.
In the course of an eight-minute speech
proposing the negative motion, Mr de
Burgh said bluntly that 'he didn’t care
whether the dislike (of fluoride) was
hysterical or not, people were just as
likely to make themselves ill.’
Other speakers against fluoridation in-
cluded a well-known publicity - happy
Eastern suburbs alderman, Hugh Foster,
of Woollahra, who saw the whole thing
as “compulsory medication and morally
wrong.”
A puzzling aspect of the affair has been
the role of the Government-appointed
Chairman of the Board, Mr Stan Havi-
land, who doubles as chairman of an-
other storm-centre, the Sydney Opera
House Committee. Mr Haviland did not
speak at the meeting but was quick to
correct an ALP speaker who under-
estimated the cost of fluoridation equip-
ment. The Government's support for
fluoridation has been clearly ex-
pressed through the Minister for Health,
Mr Sheahan. Those public servants who
worked under Mr Haviland before he
went to the Water Board are quick to
call him a dictator and any observer of
the Board must suspect that Mr Haviland
could have, if he’d tried, swung the ap-
pointee Vice-Chairman and at least one
of the representatives.
The Minister for Health, the turbulent
Mr Sheahan, in his first public comment
made no reference to the possibility of
legislation. But Mr Sheahan disclosed
that he had previously informed the
Premier that Mr Haviland's attitude was
such that he did not want to co-operate
with the Government or the Health De-
partment. For good measure Billy
Sheahan added that he thanked Provi-
dence that he had been “spared the
indignity of having within my jurisdic-
tion such an antediluvian authority . . .
whose thinking is so retrogressive.”
BIG BUSINESS
Take-Overs
The word used to he u exploitation ”
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
Tn a single day this week international
companies swallowed Australia’s big-
gest jam maker whole, and took a size-
able bite from our fifth biggest rubber
manufacturer, thus underlining the view
of American journal “Business Week,”
that this is the age of multinational com-
panies which “produce and sell in many
countries, bring in rich profits and fit
right into today’s global market.”
In fact the vogue for multinational
companies is sweeping the US in such a
hurry that the Harvard Graduate School
of Business is planning a special Centre
for their study. The idea is that these
companies are much more than mere
instruments of profit! US scholars see
them as a means by which business can
act as a stabiliser in a world full of
tensions.
“Business Week” thinks the academics
are taking a rather altruistic view, but
says it is true that multinational corpora-
tions do provide an effective mechanism
for international exchange of men and
technology and, by superimposing on a
set of already interdependent nations a
further set of interdependent business
enterprises, they may help to erode some
barriers of national sovereignty.
More tangibly, as in the case of
Unilever’s £4+ million cash bid for
Rosella, the net result is a pile of good
hard money for those who sell out to the
multinational companies and another
layer added to our future commitments
for the overseas remittance of profits.
(Unilever remitted about £750,000 from
last year’s profits.) Moreover, in the
case of United States Rubber’s buying
25 per cent of South Australian Rubber’s
capital, while there could be an initial
gain in capital inflow arising both from
the purchase and new money to be put
up for a tyre factory in SA, the end result
for the balance of payments will be the
same. “Exploitation” used to be the bad
old word for these manoeuvres.


INQUESTS
The Bogle - Chandler
Finding
Two remaining questions
J. J. LOOMES
“Sleepless hours”
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
\¥Then the last of the crowd had jostled
” out of No. 3 court room at the
Central Court of Petty Sessions last
week the second act of what Sydney
had come to know as the Bogle-Chandler
case was over and it was a long odds
chance that there would ever be a third
act. The Coroner, Mr Loomes, said that
both the deceased died of an “acute cir-
culatory failure,” but gave no opinion
as to the cause. The deaths, he said,
were “unnatural.”
Behind the uncounted column inches
of words, words, words on the case when
ii was all over, two interesting questions
remained, apart from the riddle of the
deaths themselves. They were: how far
the police investigations had been compe-
tent and efficient, and how far the in-
quest, the first major one under the rela-
tively new NSW Coroners Act, would
provide a pattern for the future.
The inquest had ended in a flurry of
congratulation and thanks for the police
from all parties represented, and Mr
Loomes in his finding went out of his
way to speak of “herculean efforts” and
“no stone left unturned.” But one news-
paper expressed concern about “dilatori-
ness in the early days of the investiga-
tion,” and another called for a Royal
Commission.
Nothing to give a firm foundation to
the misgivings of those two newspapers
had emerged during the inquest. But it
was common knowledge around Sydney
in the first few days following the dis-
covery of the bodies that one of the
major police theories was “suicide,” and
that some top policemen felt that too
much fuss was being made about some-
thing that wasn’t a great mystery. Again,
the second body, that of Mrs Chandler,
was not found until half an hour after
the arrival of police on the scene and
after the first detective on the scene had
already left.
At the inquest the Government Ana-
lyst, Mr E. S. Ogg, who traditionally car-
ries out forensic poison tests in NSW,
firmly rejected any notion that his tests
had been inadequate or that he lacked all
the equipment he needed.
On the balance the criticisms of the
police investigation and the tests were
hardly enough to justify the call for a
Royal Commission. Even if a number
of police officers did hold to the “sui-
cide” theory early in the case, others
did not, and the investigations went on.
In the face of the denial by Mr Ogg,
reaffirmed under questioning, that he
could have done any more it was diffi-
cult to state with certainty that the test-
ing procedure deserved censure.
On the second question, the Coroner,
Mr Loomes, went out of his way in his
finding to discuss a problem central to
the conduct of coronial inquiries, not
only for the Bogle-Chandler case but
for Coroners’ courts everywhere within
the English law system. Traditionally
Coroners’ courts have not been bound
by the normal rules of evidence.
In his finding, Mr Loomes summed up
the pressures confronting him when he
said: “In the fierce glare of publicity
an inquest can become a merciless
thing.” Rather surprisingly he injected a
personal note into his judicial statement
when he spoke of “spending sleepless
hours trying to find an answer” to the
question of what evidence he might call
and of “the ones left behind being the
ones to suffer.”
Although counsel had fought many
minor skirmishes with mixed success on
points of evidence during the inquest
the major test of discretion came on the
last day of the evidence with the calling
of two witnesses: Mrs Margaret Fowlef,
of Turramurra, who had postponed an
overseas trip, and William Berry, who
had flown from Brisbane. The Coroner,
who had read the statements of both wit-
nesses to police, spoke of a difficult de-
cision “particularly when such evidence
can affect the lives of so many innocent
people.” He decided that the two wit-
nesses should not give evidence, speak-
ing of it being “remote” from the inquiry.
While Mr Loomes, in his conduct of
the inquiry, had set himself against the
spectacularly wide, fishing expedition
type inquiry, the conduct of future in-
quests would still be a matter for personal
discretion.
During the three weeks the inquest
sat the affair was, as public mysteries
perennially are, a staple of the city’s
conversation. Rumor and counter-rumor
flourished and as the inquest drag-
ged on the queues to the gallery after a
slow start built up until the crowd
threatened to disrupt the traffic of the
Central Court. It was a public gallery
given to stage whispers and theories
which were explained to anyone who
would listen. On the day of the most
gruesome medical evidence four school-
girls done out in their holiday-best lis-
tened with interest to a medical disser-
tation on the movement of blood in the
body after death. The affair also brought
its crop of macabre jokes.
But all the paraphernalia of the inquest,
the conflict over the conduct of the in-
vestigations, the gossip, the rumors and
counter-rumors tended to obscure the
one sure thing in the affair that a
man and a woman died in agony last
New Year’s morning.
POLITICS
Federal Aid to Education
A break-through?
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
m
meeting of the
A National Educa-
tion Congress held
on May 25 in the Melbourne Exhibition
Building—an old, rambling place with a
concrete floor and iron roofing, and an
uncompromising setting for an argument
on a subject as delicate as education—
pointed up the pressures in some cases
coming from within the Federal Govern-
ment’s own ranks for a constitutional re-
shuffle on education.
The Congress conclusion was fore-
gone; 4000 delegates, all fervent pro-
educationalists, called for a national
inquiry into primary, secondary and
technical education, and immediate sub-
stantial assistance to State Governments
for educational purposes,
The approach was shrewd. The Con-
gress avoided calling for Federal aid
specially allocated for education a
touchy subject—and concentrated on
additional, immediate and substantial
Commonwealth grants to the States. The
Congress did not ask for Commonwealth
control of education. But it recognised
that the Commonwealth holds the purse
strings and that only the Common-
wealth can make the necessary funds
available to the States,
The surprise was the speech of the


m.
if
amazing proof of
ASAHI PENTAX
perfection
A 35 mm. Asahi PENTAX negative
enlarged over 4000 times to 35 sq. ft.
Another triumph for Asahi PENTAX!
SUPERB NEW SV MODEL
with built-in self-timer, automatic resetting
film counter plus all Asahi PENTAX
quality features.
Full range of superb Takumar lenses from
28 nun. to 1000 nun.
Asahi PENTAX SV with FI.B Takumar
Lens and leather case £90.0.0.
from your photo dealer
C 3348
Minister for Labor, Mr William Me-
Mahon, who has for the past three years
sat in the hottest Ministerial seat in
the Cabinet as thousands of school
leavers annually turned into job seekers.
He conceded that Commonwealth aid
had not gone far enough: “Much has
been achieved during the past 12 years.
This should not be a cause for satisfac-
tion. Much more remains to be done.”
During the opening speeches at the
conference it became obvious that in-
creasing emphasis was being laid on
technical education. The Victorian
Mnister for Education, Mr John Bloom-
field, urged special Federal aid for tech-
■ , V, .. ... , x
ica uca ion, simi ar to that given to
the universities.
The Commonwealth has already re-
quested the Universities Commission to
conduct an enquiry into all aspects of
tertiary education, similar to the enquiry
on university education. Its findings and
recommendations are expected soon. Its
report will be one of the most important
documents to be presented to the Corn-
monwealth Government, and is bound
to involve a considerable increase in
Commonwealth assistance to education,
The break-through in technical educa-
f' on as a ' rea dy been achieved, and has,
? sens . e ’ anticipated the report of the
, niversities Commission. As McMahon
aS le 9 uent jy mentioned in Parliament,
. efT ° rtS . are f ’’‘t'" B mad< ; to
Ztt • "“"c" " o * ers ;
In his opinion, the prospective lack of
skilled workmen is one of the greatest
bottlenecks in an industrial structure
that is becoming increasingly mechanised
and complex.
ABORIGINES
The Cupboard Drinkers
Tudmvali's Plea
R. TUDAWALI
Not used to the bush
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
\ boriginal film actor Robert Tudawali
is a tragic figure in Darwin these
days. No longer is he the handsome,
strapping young athlete who starred for
Wanderers in Australian Rules football
here; and who played “Marbuk” in the
Chauvel movie “Jedda”. He appears to
be following the same path to ruin as did
the famous Aranda artist Albert Namat-
jira.
Back in town after a long period of
exile at Snake Bay on Melville Island, he
is adding to his already formidable list
of drinking convictions. Hollow-eyed,
his broad shoulders stooped in dejection,
he appeared in the Police Court last week
with four other natives who faced banish-
ment from Darwin under Section 17 of
the Welfare Ordinance. All are wards,
whose liking for the forbidden “grog”
have brought them into conflict with the
law again and again.
Mr Leader, SM, gave Tudawali what
amounts to a probationary period to pull
himself together. He adjourned the
application against him for two"months.
If convicted of anything in that time he
can call him up within 48 hours for
decision on whether he should go into
exile.
Tudawali is still only in his thirties, but
the bright days appear to be far behind
him. His only income is £5 a week,
which he earns from the Education
Branch as a gardener and handyman.
Years ago, while being feted in the south
as Australia’s only aboriginal film star, he
acquired a taste for alcohol, although,
as a ward, he is forbidden to drink in the
Northern Territory. To satisfy his crav-
ing he has to join sordid orgies on wine
and beer in the bush behind Bagot com-
pound.
In court the other day, for the first
time, he pleaded to be made a citizen
so he could enjoy his beer in a hotel like
anyone else. Previously he has always
said he would leave that question up to
the Welfare Branch who would “make
me a citizen when they think I am
ready.”
He told the magistrate he did not
want to be exiled to Snake Bay again.
“I want to stay in Darwin because I'm
not used to life in the bush,” he said.
Chief Welfare Officer Ted Evans (ap-
pearing to seek the orders for banish-
ment, on behalf of the Welfare Branch):
“Do you want citizenship so you can
drink lawfully?”
Tudawali: “Yes.”
Evans: “Is there any other reason?”
Tudawali: “Yes; so I can’t be sent away
from Darwin and so I don't have to drink
in the bush and be picked up every time.”
The power to banish natives from town
areas is among the most controversial of
many arbitrary features of the Territory’s
Welfare regulations. There are moves be-
fore the Legislative Council now to have
it removed so that aborigines can live
where they like, whatever their personal
habits. As at present administered it is
breeding a race of aboriginal cupboard
drinkers, and a resentment that, even
now, would take many years to dissipate.
Footnote: Tudawali was arrested
drunk and banished to Snake Bay for
nine months.


V
s
r
THE
COONAWARRA ESTATE
The vineyard and the old stone
cellars are in the care of dedicated
men who have retained many of
the traditional hand-methods in
carefully producing Australia’s
finest table wines.
Each bottle is marked with its
vintage year and carries a back
label clearly showing where the
Estate is located.
COONAWARRA ESTATE* CLARET IS
made from the original Shiraz
(Hermitage) vineyard.
COONAWARRA ESTATE CABERNET
is vintaged from 70 acres of the
rare Cabernet Sauvignon.
COONAWARRA ESTATE RIESLING
comes from a new vineyard of
Rhine Riesling.
*“ Estate" (as the word “ Chateau ” in France) is used 10
distinguish the wine as being the genuine product of the
winegrowers’ own vineyard.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors: S. WYNN & CO.PTY.LTD.
BUSINESS
Tom the Cut-Throat
In the Big League
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
Perth’s famous, controversial, “Tom
the Cheap Grocer” opened his first
Melbourne shop last week, and within
three hours had to close the doors to
control the crowds. Tom is Mr E. T.
Wardle, the best-known man in the retail
grocery trade in WA, where he has built
up an empire of more than 60 price-
cutting shops since he opened his first
one-man store in 1945.
In October, 1961, he moved into Ade-
laide, where today he has 10 shops. Now
he has brought his price-cutting tactics
right into the big league territory, in the
heart of Melbourne.
Tom’s advertising symbol is a carica-
ture of himself in convict’s uniform la-
belled “Tom the Bad Boy.” He adver-
. , , , ......
tises extensively and has no inhibitions
about publishing the brand names which
he marks down to cut-throat price lev-
els. ' Competitors Say He II Rum Us
and ' Customers Love Him are two of
his slogans.
Tom operates generally on a 10 per
cent mark-up, but some of his special
draw-card lines are sold at bare cost.
Early this year he estimated his annual
turnover at £7,000.000. In WA he has
more than 400 on his payroll. For his
Melbourne opening he advertised 18
specials, stating the brand name in each
case. There were 16 oz. cans of tomato
soup at llid., a best-selling line of filter-
tip cigarettes at 2s. Bd. for 20, tea at
ss. 6d. a pound, pet food at Bd. a tin,
toothbrushes at llid.
Tom’s Melbourne shop is the Elizabeth
Street property occupied for many years
by Angus and Robertson. Although tens
of thousands pass it each day on the way
to and from the Flinders Street railway
station, grocery people were sceptical that
Tom could make a go of a cut-price
self-service store in this location. It just
didn’t seem right for the area, and al-
though there is another grocery shop in
the block, it tends to concentrate on the
“quality” trade. Tom was so confident
that he broke one of bis own basic rules
and bought the property outright—for
£115,000.
Last week crowds milled around and
as some shoppers departed, the plate-
glass doors were slid back to admit more.
Inside, shoppers with baskets thronged
the aisles, picking out their goods. “Ter-
rific . . . beyond my wildest dreams,” said
Tom from a vantage point on the stairs.
“Look they’re buying from the full
range. Look at what’s in those baskets.”
Tom’s tactics got him into lots of
trouble with suppliers, not to mention
competitors, in Perth. Some manufac-
turers threatened to cut off his supplies
unless he abandoned price-cutting, and
some carried out their threats. It was a
constant battle, with Tom using all his
powers of persuasion and ingenuity to
keep up his supplies. When he couldn’t
get goods from local sources he made
flying trips to the Eastern States to make
undercover deals. As his turnover grew
his troubles lessened as more and more
suppliers came to heel.
Last week Tom said he knew he’d have
to fight many of these battles all over
again on new terrain.
DEVELOPMENT
To the Flinders St Station
Accountants before Artists?
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
VTobody wanted to pour cold water on
the £.30 million plan for Flinders
Street Station, but sceptics of multi-
million dreaming in Victoria were re-
membering Mr Bolte s remark at the
send-off to the Prince s Bridge project
when he said he preterred to see the
economics before the artists' sketches of
grand-scale development projects.
Doubters could also point to the
nebulous financial arrangements so far
consummated. The only money in sight
is £ 23,600, the promoting company s
paid up share capital, of which o 2 per
. c Ar tv at w , ,
cent came from Messrs R. N. Vroland
,u FT . ~ . , ,
and H. K. Jones, solicitor and consultant
. , ,
respectively, neither being particularly
<• „„„ f r. • , X f i
famous for financial connections. Most
of the other backers of the scheme look
to be in it for the contract plums.
Cynics were saying that the promoting
company’s plans for financing the project
should have been rather more cut and
dried before the Victorian Railways
bargained away a 99-year lease on the
capital’s choicest building site.
Indeed, the Railways had all the more
need for caution on the finance score in
view of what has happened to the com-
pany building most of the Railways’ new
£1 million station at Spencer Street, a
m j] e or two down the line. Virtually on
the eve of the announcement of the
Flinders Street project, that company,
Maidla Constructions Pty Ltd, which is
doing £9OO 000 worth 0 f work at
s r Street was p | aced under official
ma ment at the urgent reqU est of its
credit who are owed in lhe region
f £250 000 Mr w _ | ng | is> its manag .
, ~
ing director, told me last week the com-
, ... „ ,
pany s position was as much due to
u■j , ■ i
chopping and changing of plans by the
t
Railways in the course of the contract as
a ,
10 any,h,n6 else ;
Although Maiella expects to get out
difficulties as contract payments
mature on Spencer Street (timed to be
finished in September) and other con-
tracts, the Railways should have taken
the warning and asked for rather more
hard and fast colors for the money
required for the Flinders Street plan.


Around Melbourne
CHLOE IN THE CULTURAL CENTRE?
We have just had an orgy of self-
congratulation on how beautiful
Melbourne is to be. The things that
are happening at the corner of Flin-
ders Street and Swanston Street leave
us practically breathless. At the
Prince’s Bridge Station we have the
£5 million Prince’s Gate project,
due to start next March—roofing of
the railway yards, two 15-storey
buildings, beautiful plaza, flower-pots,
occasional trees, the lot.
On the opposite corner we have the
£3O million project for the re-
development of Flinders Street
Station. Just down the road we are
building the £4 million cultural
centre, with high hopes for a 415-
foot golden spire. Why, even St
Paul's Cathedral has its restoration
appeal.
That leaves only one corner un-
touched the 102 - year - old pub of
Messrs Young and Jackson and, by
golly, they had better look slippy
because the Lord Mayor already is
making very rude remarks about it.
Understandably, over the years we
have become a trifle sceptical about
beautiful plans. We remember Mr
Korman’s plans for an Eiffel Tower,
a 40-storey addition for Chevron,
and even for a huge St Kilda Road
building with restaurant mounted 400-
odd feet above the ground on top of
a pole. We don’t doubt anybody’s
courage, sincerity, or enterprise it’s
just that you feel better when you
see the concrete mixers in action.
This new project looks a bobby-
dazzler. The directors behind it are
Mr R. N. Vroland, chairman, presi-
dent of the LTAV and a former
president of the Law Council of Aus-
tralia; Mr M. I. Tomlins, a well-
known accountant; Mr F. O. Watts,
of E. A. Watts Pty Ltd, the main
contractors for the Southern Cross
Hotel; and Mr H. K. Jones, managing
director. Now, Mr Jones is 48, a
patent consultant. It was his idea,
and the whole project is named in his
honor HKJ Pty Ltd. The use
of the initials is unusual, but it gives
the project a go-ahead air, and they
could always use a slogan similar to
Mr Lyndon Johnson’s when he was
trying so hard for the Presidential
nomination: “All the Way with LKJ.”
So far HKJ has revealed very little
about the financial backing. Mr
Vroland says that they have, as yet,
signed no financial agreements to
raise the money, nor will he say
precisely where they can gain capital
overseas. However, Mr Bolte says:
“I believe HKJ are dead serious, and
that’s what we want. I am very
thrilled with this big project.”
And it is thrilling. Work is
scheduled to start next May, to be
completed in seven years. The plans
tell us that there will be an open-air
plaza, a boulevard along the Yarra,
a 12-storey building facing the Yarra,
a five-storey car park to take 1500
vehicles, plus an office-hotel building
30 storeys high. One only hopes that
we can absorb all this hotel and office
space. Occupancy of Melbourne
hotel rooms in recent times has been
as low as 40 per cent; ss. Southern
Cross shares last week were 2s. 9d.
T>ut if you were not raised by the
Yarra Bank how can you under-
stand what this means to Melbourne?
Actually we haven’t many things that
are the biggest, the greatest, the finest
in the world, but all our guide books
assure us that Flinders, Street Railway
Station is the world’s busiest. “Under
the clocks” always has been Mel-
bourne’s most cherished meeting
place, although just lately the Gas
Company has been stealing some of
their glory. They provide overhead
gas heating. The station is a hideous
old building with a great yawning
mouth, ready to bite connoisseurs
who like to note its similarity to Luna
Park. Officially we are told that the
architecture is French Renaissance,
and the young railway architects who
designed it actually won a £5OO
prize. It was completed in 1910, and
we do hope that HKJ doesn’t have the
same problems. When the plans were
first mooted the cost was £BO,OOO.
By 1904 it had reached £440,000
and by 1909 it was £514,000. There
was a row over a contract, and the
inquiry under Mr Justice Cussen went
on for years.
Do think of the Melbourne of those
days. Before 1888 there was no
viaduct between Flinders and Spencer
Street Stations. The railway line ran
along the side of Flinders Street
damned awkward this was. The trains
could only run at night.
Flinders Street Station was a nice
little station at the end of Elizabeth
Street, and the fish market was on
the present site. In 1892 the fish
market moved to the other end of
Flinders Street, but the old building
carried on as a fruit market and the
Melbourne Bicycle Stables.
Then the Railways Commissioners
cast their eyes upon it all, and down
it came in 1900. The new railway
station was opened just after the
advent of Halley’s Comet and the
death of King Edward VII.
Yet, through all this we have the
nagging fears of what will happen to
Young and Jackson’s and our dear
Chloe. Along with the HKJ announce-
ment the Lord Mayor, Sir Maurice
Nathan, gave clear warning that Y
& J’s would be the next to go. The
building has been there since the 1850 s
and it celebrated its centenary as a
pub almost precisely two years ago.
We had our fears in 1960, when
the Commonwealth Bank bid more
than £1 million for Y & J’s plus
several shops. Callously there was no
mention of Chloe. It was difficult to
picture her in the tellers’ chamber of
the Commonwealth Bank. Fortunately
the bid was unsuccessful. The City
Council bid up to £200,000 just for
Y & J’s alone, with the object of
turning the site into a charming little
square, a pretty gateway to the city.
Again there was no mention of Chloe,
and nothing came of the offer.
Now one of our radio commen-
tators has a superb idea. Why not
shift Y & J’s brick by brick and install
it inside the new cultural centre?
Chloe would be back in the National
Gallery, from whence she came.
Y & J’s as a national monument
would make a magnificent tourist
attraction. Best of all, it could be
packed with thousands of wax figures
to illustrate to all future generations
the exact nature of the 6 o’clock swill
in the Melbourne of the nineteen-
sixties.
BATMAN


SPORT
1. Melbourne’s
Footy Fever
Th e mystique and protocol of Australia's greatest regional sport
By BATMAN
It is only two or three weeks since w 7 e
were introduced to the latest Mel-
burnian football novelty —nappies for
baby in club colours. Now, nappies are
designed for one particular function, and
the thoughtful may feel that club nappies
are hardly a compliment to the club con-
cerned.
But this is Melbourne in the winter,
and nobody ever thinks that deeply. Nap-
pies are just the latest idea. You can buy
anything in your club colors —rugs, ear-
rings, socks, towels, baskets, coffee tables,
money-boxes, ties. Even when the gentle-
men are drying the dishes at night they
can mop up in the colors of the club
dearest to their hearts.
Oh, yes, you can buy jackets for your
poodle, all embroidered with the club
colors. If your poodle is particularly de-
voted to any individual player, then he
can have that player’s number sewn
on top. Or, if he is a fickle poodle,
the jacket can be reversible; if, say,
Melbourne is being thrashed by Essendon
at three-quarter time, then it is a simple
matter to turn the jacket over and, 10, up
come the Essendon colors.
Football is blazing to such a degree in
Melbourne this season that everybody is
cashing in. It will help any business. For
example, honey people sell their honey
in glasses embossed with football em-
blems. There is barely a firm in town that
does not bring out a fixture list. I have,
maybe, 20 of them on my desk.
Even staid, august firms like Amalga-
mated Wireless have a “footy” list. The
Bank of New South Wales hands out
money-boxes in the shape of footballs.
The ES & A Bank provides an elegant
booklet giving a complete list of records,
premierships and, most important, the
rules. Coca Cola has produced a color
film to help with training at the clubs.
Shell has a very nice autograph book,
with special places where you can collect
the names of all your favorite players.
Nor is it just a seasonal affair. The
“Melbourne Herald” has Alf Brown. He
writes football ALL THE YEAR
ROUND. FTe does nothing else, and re-
gularly he shifts the cricket off the back
page. Football training with some clubs
starts well before Christmas, and the
players are put through commando
courses across the sand dunes. Then, to
make up for the long, arid, cricketing
months, the TV stations put on special
football summer programmes. One is cal-
led “Football Replay”, which week by
week regurgitates the old footy finals.
Naturally, the TV tempo is stepped up
during the season. I think we have more
time allotted to football than gun-play.
The climax comes on Sunday mornings,
when the vast post-mortems take place,
when all the players are called in for
questioning by the experts. I have a fav-
orite bit on one programme. This is the
run-dowm of all the injuries from the
Saturday. The announcer dresses up in a
white jacket, just like Ben Casey, and he
wears a stethoscope about his neck. It
gives the W'hole affair authenticity.
Jt is difficult not to get carried along by
this enthusiasm. You can’t ignore it
in conversation. And it doesn't affect
only one class of the community. Sir
Harry Winneke, the Solicitor-General, is
one of the top men at Hawthorn. You
come across a man like Oliver Shaul,
ex-managing director of Federal Hotels,
in the dressing-room at North Melbourne.
One of our economists gets behind the
goals at Collingwood every Saturday, and
he says you wouldn’t believe the import-
ant people you see there. This man won’t
go into the stand. That wouldn't be excit-
ing enough.
Politicians and all those in public view
know 7 that it is wise to associate them-
selves with one of the clubs. Sir Robert
Menzies makes frequent mention of his
devotion to Carlton. Mr Bolte is for Fitz-
roy, Arthur Calwell is a North Melbourne
man; Mr Porter, the Police Commission-
er, is for Essendon; Sir Maurice Nathan,
the Lord Mayor, likes Carlton; and Sir
Dallas Brooks, our recently retired
Governor, was number one ticket-holder
at Richmond. Sir Rohan Delacombe, the
new Governor, hadn't been in town one
day before he, too, declared his allegiance
for Richmond. You have to do these
things.
There are other towns in the world
that take their football seriously. There’s
Auckland, Buenos Aires, Madrid, Rome,
Glasgow, Moscow; but their enthusiasm
is of a different kind. Our heroes are
local heroes. We are completely intro-
verted. All that interests us is the local
competition. We don’t want international
football; heavens above, we can’t even
stand interstate football. Interstate foot-
ball is a tiresome arrangement which in-
terrupts the weekly competition. There
was a newspaper here that ran a poll to
decide what we should do about interstate
matches. The result was clear-cut—42.3
per cent of readers suggested that we
should scrap them altogether.
Why is Melbourne like this? To be
honest, nobody has ever given an ade-
quate explanation. The cynical fellow
will tell you it’s the cheap drug. What else
is there to do in Melbourne? The en-
thusiast will tell you that the answer is
obvious —here we have the most exciting,
most spectacular game ever devised for
mankind. Now, before you Rugby League
and Union men stop reading at once, I
confess, reluctantly, that there must be
other reasons.
The great depression of the eighteen-
nineties put a sudden stop to the expansion
of Melbourne. There was the further de-
pression in the thirties and, more than
anything else, this had to be the cheap
entertainment. Because of these difficult
times there was a big population in the
inner suburbs. Old clubs like Colling-
wood, Richmond, Carlton, Fitzroy and
South Melbourne could draw their re-
cruits and their supporters from within
their own boundaries.
The people from Carlton would loathe
the people from Fitzroy. The people from
Collingwood would loathe the people
from Richmond. The match between


Collingwood and Richmond was a classic
battle between players and spectators,
worth going miles to see. North Mel-
bourne did not come in to the League
-Until 1925, but the Shin-boners used to
hate everybody. Many an old player will
jell you that after the match at North
Melbourne they were lucky to escape with
their lives.
The Big Push
T>y 1946 it was no longer possible to
** place supporters into neat suburban
compartments, but tremendous publicity
gave it a new push. It is intriguing to
compare the space given to football be-
fore and after the war. Before the war
football got only nominal space, and
never did it make the front page. Now it
fills the newspapers front and back, and
there is all the added impetus of radio
and television. It makes the posters three
or four times a week. Why, recently we
had a poster which dealt with the fact
that a Geelong full forward had a sore
neck.
Five times in the last seven years the
attendances at Grand Finals have been
over 100,000. Take last year. You couldn’t
buy a ticket of any kind at the ground.
All of them were sold beforehand. Even
so, the queuers began to arrive on the
Thursday at 4 a.m., 58 hours before the
game was due to start. They went through
hell. It rained most of that time. Bodgies
pelted them with eggs. Yet they queued
for one reason —so that they could get a
good position behind the goal. We proud-
ly put this forward as a world record for
football queueing.
And it is still building. The average
attendance at all weekly matches last
year was 151,000. For the six matches
on the first two rounds of this year they
were 174,640 for the opening round and
214,484 for the split round on the Sat-
urday and Anzac Day. These figures
broke all records.
Now just compare these figures with
Sydney Rugby League, played on Satur-
days and Sundays. For the five matches
on April 13 and 14 they were 50,915;
for April 20 and 21, 53,090; the next
week-end was almost washed out and
for May 11 and 12 it was 59,216.
True, there are rival codes in Sydney,
but then there are rival codes in Mel-
bourne. The truth of the matter is that
three times as many people in Melbourne
spend their afternoons looking at the
game.
Now to get back to reasons._Tradition
has a lot to do with it. Look at the
names of Sydney Rugby League clubs.
Fair enough, St George is a good one,
and famous. But what can you do with
Western Suburbs, Eastern Suburbs, North
Sydney.
Take Collingwood. Visitors will hard-
ly credit it, but the tradition there is al-
most a mystic thing. When you enter the
Collingwood clubrooms it has something
pf the atmosphere of a church. Famous
British regiments took centuries to build
tradition, but, with battles every Saturday,
tradition here built with incredible speed.
The walls are adorned with countless
photographs and great names; names
that really are revered like fallen re-
volutionary heroes. Lou Richards, a
former Collingwood captain, has written
that always it is impressed on players
that the greatest sin of all is to lose.
One can gain a faint idea of this tra-
dition by attending the pre-season Col-
lingwood Football Club dinner. Usually
it works this way. The club members
turn up in force; black tie, wine, turkey,
brandy correctly served in balloons. Then
at the right moment there is a fanfare of
trumpets and from the end of the hall
enters a Boy Scout bearing high an em-
broidered cushion. On this cushion is the
most cherished article in all Collingwood
—the No. 1 black and white Collingwood
guernsey. As the Boy Scout comes for-
ward out steps the Collingwood captain
to accept his guernsey from the club
president himself.
And so it goes on —every man on the
senior training list gets his guernsey in the
same way. This helps him to appreciate
that he is receiving one of the highest of
all honours in Melbourne town. A gradu-
ation at West Point would be no less mov-
ing.
It is not often that the passions which
rule this club come right out into the
open, but an astonishing example was the
campaign for the presidency last Febru-
ary. There is no point here in explaining
all the complicated political manoeuvres
which brought about this battle. They are
known perfectly in Melbourne.
One the one side was John Galbally,
52, a top barrister in criminal actions, the
Leader of the Opposition in the Legisla-
tive Council, a former State Minister, and,
more important than anything, a former
Collingwood player. On the other side
was Tom Sherrin, 46, a football manu-
facturer, and, what’s more, his business
right there in Collingwood.
Backing Jack Galbally were John Wren,
son of the famous John Wren, and Jock
McHale, the greatest of all Collingwood
coaches, and the present coach, Phonse
Kyne. It was almost like a battle between
the Tories and the workers. Behind Tom
Sherrin were the players and most of the
rank and file.
Elections in State politics can be
awfully dull, but this was done in the
grand style; the electors were really
wooed. The Galbally team, for example,
did a complete telephone canvass.
What else happened? Every club mem-
ber received at least three letters in the
mail. The candidates personally put their
cases on the two commercial TV chan-
nels. There were men to hand out pamph-
lets at the railway stations all along the
Collingwood line. Then on polling date
the players paraded with placards asking
the members to vote for Tom Sherrin.
What’s more, just like a Federal election,
there were How to Vote cards.
It is history now that Tom Sherrin
had an easy win. It all cost a great deal
in time, effort and money. But this is the
point to understand. Neither Tom Sher-
rin nor Jack Galbally had anything what-
ever to gain financially or in privilege by
winning the election. There was just the
prestige to be had in being PRESIDENT
OF COLLINGWOOD.
If you want to understand the passions
of Melbourne football it is interesting also
to look at Alan Killigrew, the coach of
North Melbourne. He’s a spell-binder, a
man who gains results by the almost un-
believable strength of his sincerity. He
played for St. Kilda, then for a long time
he was in hospital with a spinal disease.
Many believe that it was only the power
of his faith in the Roman Catholic
Church that brought him back to health.
He coached St Kilda, then went to Nor-
wood in Adelaide, and this year he re-
turned to coach North Melbourne.
The results have been astonishing. Last
year North Melbourne won only four
matches and finished second last on the
League ladder. This year North Mel-
bourne won its first three matches by de-
feating Collingwood, Footscray and
Richmond in that order. Unfortunately,
it lost the next three, but it still fights on,
mesmerised.
Killigrew depends on the psychological
approach. In the North Melbourne room
there are pictures only of winning sides,
no failures. North Melbourne has never
won a VFL premiership so he has a
slogan: The Team that Wins North Mel-
bourne’s First Premiership Gains Foot-
ball Immortality.
The Pep Speech
¥>ut the thing to do is to see him in
action giving his pre-play speech to
the side. At this he is superb. He is Billy
Graham, Percy Cerutty, Laurence Olivier
all rolled into one. He knows how to
build to a climax, how to time an impact
and how to drop to an emotional hush.
When he is talking he can’t stand still.
He marches up and down the dressing-
room. He wears no coat. His tie hangs
down loose. He becomes red in the face.


Zh-
&
mt
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated in England)
Assets exceed £188,000,000
The Royal Exchange Assurance Group of Offices provides a
world-wide insurance service backed by experience over almost two
and a half centuries.
The following are the associated companies operating in
Australia.
• ATLAS ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
[lncorporated in England)
• AUSTRALIAN & EASTERN INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
• THE STATE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• BRITISH EQUITABLE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• THE PACIFIC INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
Branches in ail States
Head Office for Australia
Kindersley House,
Bligh/O'Connell Streets,
Sydney.
Frank H. Egerton
Manager for Australia
«
>
»
I
.•••'* A good coffee that
won’t keep you awake at night —that’s
HUB
Enjoy the delicious flavour of HAG coffee,
either instant, ground or beans. HAG coffee
does not upset your heart, nerves or digestion.
. DECAFFElNA Tt
•nstantcof^f
w
CAFFEIN-
FREE
COFFEE
GOOD COFFEE AND A GOOD NIGHT'S SLEEP
Here are some extracts from a recent
speech as reported in the “Sun News
Pictorial”:
“This is it. THIS IS IT. You’re in the
BIG time after today. Now I want you
out on that ground in a body all tight to-
gether. I want you to look like a top
VFL side—the cream of Australian foot-
ball. Let the whole WORLD know—it’s
US —against THEM.
“You're going to fight now for
North Melbourne and believe me there’s
no better cause. North Melbourne always
has been noted for GUTS. Don’t you for-
get that ever. There’s never been a North
Melbourne team that didn’t have GUTS.
North Melbourne teams may have been
beaten, yes they have been annihilated,
but they have never been FRIGHTEN-
ED. Never.
“And if someone does something good,
takes a good mark, give him a rap. Tell
him. You’re a team, remember. You got
to LOVE each other. Yes. LOVE EACH
OTHER.
“The silk is here to see you today.
Great names. The world is your oyster —-
if you win. But this is a ruthless business,
the jungle. DOG eat DOG. If you go
down you’re finished. NOBODY’S IN-
TERESTED IN YOU. Already they’re
saying North Melbourne for the four.
You can do it IF YOU BELIEVE IT.
Well, I believe you can . . . It’s the truth.
“All right, I can’t tell you how to win.
I can't put blood in your heart. I can’t
push the blood through to work your
muscles. HEART IS SOMETHING YOU
GOTTA HAVE ON YOUR OWN. Now
North has won only five times here in 38
years. Well, what are you going to do?
(Very soft now.) “Are you going to be
one of those teams who COULDN’T or
one of those that CAN?” (Applause and
shouts of enthusiasm as teams runs out.)
The Rewards
A s you can see, a great deal is demand-
ed. What then are the rewards? All
VFL players had a £2 rise this year,
which means that now they get <£lo a
match. However, on top of this are
provident fund payments. Collingwood
Club is the most generous in this. Each
player gets £lO for a win, £5 for a
loss. There is also £4 from the VFL
provident fund. When Collingwood wins
every player earns £24.
Jack Dyer (“Captain Blood”), the re-
nowned former captain of Richmond, is
a little scornful of the rich rewards to be
had now. In the old days it was the
honor and glory. He could remember the
time when the greatest of honor of all
was just to rub shoulders in the bath with
the champion. He’d play for the smell of
the eucalyptus.
Now, of course, there are Ron Barassi
fan clubs, Murray Weideman fan clubs,


Ted Whitton fan clubs. The adoration is
so great that the rewards to be had are
rich. After every match various sponsors
hand out rewards. There are electric raz-
ors, suits, shirts, ties, transistor radios.
Some of the top players haven’t bought
a stitch in years. There’s the sponsorship
of all sorts of products —everything from
motor cars to hair oil. The faces of foot-
ballers beam at you through the ads. It
almost seems that every time one turns
on the television there is a footballer en-
thusing, saying that he couldn’t kick a
goal but for milk.
The Quest for Recruits
rFHERE are personal appearances at
“*■ lectures, at stores. There are the
countless TV and radio panel shows.
There are 10 shows on Thursday nights
and 11 shows on Friday nights. An ap-
pearance here is usually worth better
than £-5. Then there are awards offered
by newspapers, TV and radio stations.
There are three cars going this year, plus
an overseas trip for two and numerous
awards of £2OO and £lOO.
How much the top men earn is any-
body’s guess. These are points that are not
advertised. However, Jim Cardwell, sec-
retary of Melbourne, said in 1961 that
Ron Barassi, the Melbourne captain,
made £2OOO a year out of football alone.
It would be safe to say that he probably
did better than that.
The real problem for most clubs is
the finding of new recruits. Once they
came by natural process from schools,
technical schools and little leagues in the
area. Now, with the great expansion of
Melbourne, particularly for clubs like
Fitzroy, North Melbourne, South Mel-
bourne and Melbourne, these sources
have dried up. So club representatives
have to roam the State, in fact the entire
country, looking for talent.
They have to be mighty circumspect
about it. The Coulter law forbids clubs
to make any cash payments. Other
methods have to be found. Most of the
clubs have groups of businessmen to
handle this sort of thing. At Melbourne
it is the “coterie”; at Collingwood, until
they were recently disbanded, it was the
Floreats —from the Collingwood motto,
Floreat Pica (May the Magpie Flourish).
Distinguished Floreats were John Wren
and his brother Joseph.
The story goes that St Kilda had to
pay £l5OO to get the three stars, Bill
Stephenson, Alan Morrow and Bill
Young, from the country. This was
denied by the St Kilda committee. Carl-
ton this month wanted the rover, Trevor
Best, from North Hobart Football Club.
The Carlton president, Lew Holmes, said
North Hobart demanded a big transfer
fee. Best’s father in Hobart said the sum
demanded was £2OO.
There was the case this year of Terry
Waters, the Dandenong ruckman. Waters
wanted to transfer to Collingwood, but
Dandenong, a rapidly rising Association
team, wanted to keep him.
Collingwood finally won Waters by
taking out two Supreme Court writs. The
writs were issued by Frank Galbally,
Jack’s brother. The counsel engaged was
John Winneke, the former Hawthorn
iuckman. Things are done in the grand
style in Melbourne football. Anyway, be-
fore the matter came to court, with the
superb opportunity of seeing the young
Mr Winneke in action as a barrister,
Dandenong relented and Waters got his
transfer.
To acquire the stars from interstate is
the biggest problem of all. The two big-
gest transfers in recent times have been
Darrel Baldock, captain of Tasmania and
now captain of St Kilda, and Polly Farm-
er, who moved from Perth to Geelong.
The story goes that Baldock and Farmer
both cost about £3OOO. These figures were
denied, and both players had to be made
very comfortable. Yet, no matter what
they cost, both were magnificent foot-
ballers and they drew the crowds.
End-of-Season Junkets
A nother incentive for the players is the
trips. It is tradition for a VFL team,
plus officials, to go on a marvellous end-
of-season junket. Surfers Paradise al-
ways has been the favorite, but just lately
they have been getting grander and
grander. Last year Fitzroy and Geelong
went off to New Zealand. Collingwood
went on a dreamy sea-cruise to Noumea.
This year Melbourne and Carlton are go-
ing to Hawaii, and Geelong Football
Club has just announced that a party of
50 players and officials will go to the
US as an end-of-season jaunt to play
exhibition matches in San Francisco. This
will be the first exhibition of Australian
football on the mainland.
Cynics might say that the Vic-
torian Football League is rolling in
wealth. That’s not true. Victorian football
draws the biggest crowds, but it hasn’t
anything like the money of the Rugby
League clubs. There are no one-armed
bandits to drag in the money. So they re-
sort to other methods, such as raffles and
dances.
The old story is that Victorian football
is still under the thumb of the cricket
associations. Whether this is true or not,
that extraordinary fanatic, the Melbourne
football fan, watches the game under
frightful conditions. The entertainment is
fairly cheap, 6s. 6d. for the grandstand,
4s. 6d. for the outer. But there are only
two grounds with real comforts —the
Melbourne Cricket Ground and the St
Kilda Cricket Ground. At the others,
often, the lavatories are horrible. To get
a seat you would need to go three hours
beforehand. At many of the grounds the
outer is only partially terraced. You
stand there hemmed in on a slippery
slope in a welter of litter and beer cans.
Of course, the clubs feel that if they
had full control of their grounds they
would be able to provide better facilities.
That’s a matter for great argument.
Collingwood has full control of its
ground, but the improvements have been
for the social club members rather than
for the spectators.
Apart from the problems of accom-
modation, the game is in a very healthy
state. The crowds and enthusiasm grow
year by year. Mostly we are very well
behaved. We don’t have the riots like
they have at Rome and in some of the
South American countries. True, we put
in wire races to protect the players from
the kindly affections of the spectators.
It is also true that on May 4 a woman,
wielding a cane decorated with Colling-
wood ribbons, whacked the president of
Hawthorn, Dr A. S. Ferguson, on the
head. Field umpire Schwab also was hit
in the face with an apple. Hawthorn play-
er Brendan Edwards, too, had to suffer
a can on the back of the head and a slap
in the face by a girl.
But these are minor aberrations.
2. Men in Watery Cages
The Townsville-Magnetic Island Swim
By LARRY FOLEY
There is something chilling about the
sight of men swimming in towed
cages. It smacks of the treadmill and
medieval torture and Tantalus—for the
swimmer seems to be reaching, reach-
ing, hand over hand, for the end of the
cage that ever draws away, just out of
reac j l<
The swimmer must master himself. The
temptation to make one great lunge, grab
and hold on and be mercifully drawn
along, to make the same progress through
the water without further effort, grows
surely greater as the miles slip by. To
do so, to grasp any part of the cage, even
if temporarily halted for any reason, after
the race has started, means immediate
disqualification. The rules say: no hanging


w
h ,
Lucky traveller returns with the
secret of hair virility.
It used to take a trip abroad
to get Pantene. Now Europe’s
leading hair conditioner—Pantene
—is here in Australia! The discovery
of a great Swiss Laboratory, Pantene
penetrates deeply to the hair roots,
supplying the pro-vitamin essential
for hair vitality. It acts directly on
the scalp, making the hair healthy,
supple and strong.
smpppi
s mi
Ww*'
w&fc}
r m
■■ *
Pantene, with or without
oil, at leading chemists
and the more exclusive
department stores. 19/0.
Amazing new
PANTENF
Vitamin Hair Tonic
SBP9/63
on. The swimmer must swim unsupported
all the way; if he stops for a breather or
for any other reason, he must tread
water.
There is an official observer in a
dinghy, tethered outside the cage directly
beside the swimmer, to see that the
rules are obeyed. Also in the dinghy is
the swimmer's coach, or second. The term
second seems the more appropriate, for
like a boxer's second he holds his man’s
togs, towel, refreshers and revivers and
throughout the ordeal pours a stream of
advice and encouragement into his ear.
Compared with the fight game, how-
ever, the long-distance ocean swimming
contest lacks drama and zest. It is a
stately, slow-moving pageant, composed
of a flotilla of gaily-bedecked craft of
varying sizes, carrying spectators and
officials, hovering or zooming, according
to their nature, around the towing vessels.
Behind each towing vessel, on the end
of a 50-yard rope, comes the cosy living
tableau of competitor, observer and
second, joined by common purpose and
circumstance, yet oddly separated by
function: the observer, indolent, slumped
in the stern of the dinghy, with nothing
to do but observe; the second, anxious,
voluble, leaning over the side to talk into
the wet ear that surfaces, submerges, sur-
faces in the swimmer's rhythm, and from
time to time scanning the rivals, calcula-
ting relative pace, keeping an eye on the
course, ever alert; and the swimmer, in
another world, a study in trance-like per-
petual motion.
The trio of observer, second and swim-
mer seem to be engaged in a rite; the
spectator is a true outsider; nothing shall
be made clear to him. Again you have
visions of the torture chamber. Second
and swimmer especially seem bound
one to the other, in an intimacy of
the damned; torturer and victim, they
need each other.
In the second, you see the Spanish
Inquisitor, suffering for his victim, plead-
ing with him to recant even as he motions
to tighten the screw. In the silent, watch-
ful observer you see the official, indiffer-
ent, doing his duty.
Passage with no Milestone
You watch, too far away to hear, the
second bending over his man, mouth
only inches above the swimmer’s ear,
talking, talking, concerned, attentive,
urging, exhorting and surely sympathis-
ing, and waving his hand or shaking a
brightly colored towel in a forward
motion: on! on! The swimmer gives no
sign of having heard, or seen, or even
of caring. He merely flails away,
threshes on, a fish on an invisible line.
Miles slip by, but relatively he gets no-
where; in his fluid world, nothing marks
his passage, no milestone his progress;
he is caged. When will he, this speechless
sufferer, wake up, like Marcel Marceau.
to the truth of his predicament? Caged,
no escape . . . and surely the walls are
closing in?
Second and swimmer are the only ones
in the pageant fully engaged in the con-
test, the one through vigilance and at-
tention and responsibility for his charge,
the other through action. But even they
lend themselves to the apparent conspir-
acy on the part of all concerned to con-
ceal from the spectator any evidence of
the drama and tension inherent in athletic
contest. To the spectator, the second is
just a man sitting in a boat. And the
swimmer, being a champion, makes swim-
ming look easy. You cannot see the
sweat pouring off him. Nor can you tell
at a glance whether he is gaining or
falling behind. Positions in the field
change imperceptibly.
As time goes by and the scene be-
comes familiar your eye may idly settle
on an object and suddenly, as an arm
flashes, you realise it is one of the
swimmers. But the scene is never boring;
the aqua-rodders in their outboard run-
abouts see to that. They discover the
thrills of zig-zagging across each other’s
wakes. Their antics irritate.
And so it went, during the Magnetic
Island-Townsville Annual Swim, 51 miles
across Cleveland Bay. This was the tenth
staging of the event since it was revived
for the Royal Tour in 1954. It now seems
well-established and very likely is, as
its organisers claim, the longest regularly-
held ocean swimming race in the world.
This year's field consisted of six: Col
McFarlane, John Koorey and Tony
Saarinsen, all well-known Sydney surfers;
Ted Love, of Taree; John Rigby, of Bris-
bane; and Brian Coomber, of Townsville.
They faced an unusual hazard which
literally left a nasty taste in their mouths.
Townsville s bulk sugar terminal fire of
the previous week had resulted in thous-
ands of tons of burnt and molten raw
sugar being flushed into the harbour.
The stuff killed fish and marine vege-
tation. Consequent chemical action gave
off immense clouds of hydrogen sulphide,
which stank out the town with the
familiar odour of rotten eggs, ruined
paintwork, tarnished silver and metal,
and turned the normally-clean harbour
and half the bay into swamp-water. A
treacly, molasses-like deposit settled feet
thick on the bottom. The six swimmers
ran into the pollution about a mile off
the harbour entrance. The last half-mile
inside the harbour was fcul, a black and
evil brew of dead fish and weed.
All six competitors went through it to
the end. Brian Coomber took line hon-
ours (it was a time-trial) and placed third
on corrected time, seven minutes behind
winner John Rigby (2hrs. 3min.), who
started last and crossed the line second.
Saarinsen placed second with a corrected
time of 2:7:55. Koorey, who had looked
a likely winner until he hit the soup,
wound up fourth in 2:12:00, and Love
fifth (2:20:50).
Col McFarlane, the Manly surfer who
toured the world as Mr Surf, was seized
with stomach cramps and diarrhoea half
way across the Bay. He blamed it not
on the polluted sea but on too many
vitamin E pills before the race. His time
was 2:23:55. The stomach upset had cost
him 17 minutes. That he finished at all
was a wonder.
Race referee Duke Bonnett came up
to McFarlane towards the end of a
party for the swimmers a few hours
after the race. Bonnett patted the surfer
on the midriff and said: “What you did
today took that.” Guts.


b-:
■■
m
V'
pm*m
. - ;
'
• •
~,.. A
<•*
lljjgll;v-?
>l*
■»• . :>•
~>-r^
. ’
JP
m
<:
#*
»
■p
0
%
*rf*
VW7090
What do you miss in a Volkswagen?
The bumps.
They don’t worry you in a VW, gny more
than they worry the Volkswagen’s inde-
pendently sprung wheels.
It works like this. Instead of having two
front wheels or two back wheels sharing a
bump, so the whole car shudders, all four
wheels on a Volkswagen work separately.
One wheel takes a bump. The other three
don’t. So the car rides evenly.
You don't get the bump, bump, bump,
bump that shakes up you and the car
as well.
The outsize wheels help, too. VW’s big
wheels roll over holes that trap the wheels
of baby cars.
How about swaying? We correct this with
an anti-sway bar. If the car starts to lean
one way, the anti-sway bar sets up an
equal, but opposite, pressure.
Big wheels.
Anti-sway bar.
Independent torsion bar suspension.
These are a few reasons why VW wins
trials, and there are many others as well.
Let’s just say it's a wonderfully reliable
and durable car. You don’t have your
hand in your pocket every second day,
paying for parts and repairs.
That’s another thing you miss, as well
as the bumps.
Aren’t you broken hearted?
VWI2OO Sedan £849
tax paid.
VWlsoo—from £1199 tax paid.
(Prices for State capital cities.)
©
Volkswagen (Australasia) Pty. Ltd.


OUT AND ABOUT
Behind the Barrier
Broken Hill makes its own rules , and keeps them
By BOB BOTTOM
Stand in a pub in Broken Hill and
criticise the local trade union set-up
and pretty smartly you’ll end up in
a fight. On the other hand, if you stood
in the exclusive Broken Hill Club, where
businessmen and mine bosses drink, some-
one would probably shake your hand.
To the working man in this city of
33,000, straddling the famous silver,
lead and zinc mines of the Barrier
Range, unionism is something sacred. The
unions influence every phase of life in
Broken Hill. Every worker is compelled
to join a union. There are at least 11
of these, catering for all callings, and all
grouped under a controlling body, the
Barrier Industrial Council, which con-
sists of union representatives.
The BIC, assuming the role of “guard-
ian angel,” controls affairs in the city. On
its home ground it has proved even more
powerful than the NSW Government.
Broken Hill is, in effect, a State within a
State, making its own laws and having
its own ways of enforcing them. Union
power radiates from the two-storey
Trades Hall, where the unions have their
offices. Most have full-time secretaries;
the biggest union, the Workers’ Industrial
Union of Australia, which is the miners’
union and which has 4,000 members, has
a paid secretary, two clerks and an in-
spector to check safety conditions on the
mines.
People not only run to the Trades Hall
with their industrial problems but with
all sorts of grievances, whether it be
to complain about the price of beer or
to stop their landlady evicting them. If
a person is considered to have been treat-
ed unfairly, the BIC steps in. For instance,
if a shopkeeper unfairly sacks an em-
ployee or overcharges, and refuses to
heed BIC directions, his shop is promptly
declared out of bounds to all unionists
(and, officially, their families too, which
means just about everyone) and all labor
is withdrawn from the premises. The
“offender” always falls in line with the
BIC eventually, otherwise it would mean
the finish of his business, even his life,
in Broken Hill.
Sometimes people or organisations will
try to buck the BIC. Recently the city’s
37 hotels tried to increase the price of a
schooner of beer from 9d. to lOd. against
BIC wishes. The price is still 9d. Hotel-
keepers, gave in after Barrierites gave up
their much-loved booze for three weeks.
To ensure that every employee is a
financial unionist, “badge-show” days are
held every three months, when workers
have to wear badges showing they are
financial If a worker turns up at work
without a badge, he must go home or
no one will work with him. Then if
he goes to work the next day without
a clearance from his union, the same
thing applies, until he becomes financial.
Even if he loses his badge a worker is
not allowed to work on badge-show day.
Working conditions generally in
Broken Hill are probably the best in
Australia. Wages in all fields are much
higher than the basic wage, although
miners’ wages have slumped in recent
years following the glut in the lead market
and subsequent drop in the lead bonus.
In September, 1951, the lead bonus alone
was £lB 17s. 6d. a week; now it is £6
10s. a week, so the average miner clears
not much more than £4O a fortnight.
Contract miners, however, still earn up to
£BO a fortnight.
Mineworkers get four weeks’ annual
leave but most other workers in the town
still have only three weeks. Laborers and
mineworkers have a 35-hour week and
shop assistants and office workers a 37i-
hour week. Overtime in most fields is
at double time for weekends and triple
time for public holidays.
Main role of the unions today is not
so much to get more for their members
but to protect what they have. Mining
unions, however, are now waging an
intensive campaign for the reduction of
the qualifying period for long-service
leave from 15 to 10 years.
The power of the unions does not
benefit workers only. Higher wages have
given business people bigger profits and
unions instruct their members to shop
locally. Shopping out of the city or with
an out-of-town salesman is frowned on.
A national journal gave this warning to
travelling salesmen: Stay away from
Broken Hill or starve.
No outside firm is permitted to start
a business unless it employs local labor.
Interstate hire - purchase companies
especially are regarded with a certain
amount of suspicion by union officials.
Often the BIC has used its power to
prevent companies repossessing cars and
other goods when people have been un-
able to keep up payments because of a
strike, unemployment or sickness.
An inquiry agent for an insurance
company, caught secretly filming the
actions of a man off work on compensa- {
tion, was literally kicked out of town.
Police officers have been given sudden
transfers as a result of pressure from
the BIC.
In times of strikes, the advantage of the
BIC to the worker is immeasurable. As
well as spearheading negotiations for a


TOP
ACCOMMODATION
EXECUTIVES . . .
£
4
T,
%
w
m
FIRST IN SYDNEY; FIRST FOR
CHARACTER, CONVENIENCE,
COMFORT.
• Just 3 miles from the heart of the city, 2
miles from Mascot Aerodrome.
• 3 Executive Suites, 1 Director’s Suite and
32 standard and family suites.
• Individually controlled air conditioning. You
can open your window if you wish.
• 24-hour room and meal service.
• Laundry and valet service.
• Licensed restaurant.
• Private bathroom in every suite.
• Telephone, television, refrigerator and radio
in every room.
• Golf courses, beaches and other sporting
facilities. All within a few minutes of the
Travel Terminal. Overlooking Randwick Race-
course.
TRAVEL TERMINAL
2A Alison Road, RANDWICK. 39 7071
Telegrams: “TRAVTERM” RANDWICK
Service to the guest—our most important feature
1C8.43
settlement, it levies its other affiliated
members (there are more than 8000
altogether) to support those on strike.
When a strike is prolonged this relief
'money runs into many thousands of
pounds. Such relief is not confined to
locals. Funds have been sent on numerous
occasions to strikers in other centres,
particularly the NSW coalfields. More
than £lOOO went from Broken Hill to
the miners at Mt. Isa during their abortive
fight in September, 1961, for an increase
in the lead bonus.
Nowadays, there are very few strikes
in Broken Hill although a few years ago
stoppages in the mines were quite com-
mon and often lasted many months. It
is now the policy of both employee and
employer to settle disputes by negotia-
tion.
Because of union power, Broken Hill is
almost free of the State's gambling and
liquor laws. Hotels open at odd hours,
SP betting is an accepted thing, two
gambling casinos operate in the main
block of Argent Street, the main street,
and in Argent Lane flourishes what would
be the best organised two-up school in
Australia.
When he retired as NSW Police Com-
missioner last year, Mr Colin Delaney
told a Sydney newspaper: “Broken Hill
received certain immunities from the
Government of the day 25 to 26 years
ago. The concessions were never incor-
porated in the law, but they exist. Broken
Hill does not abuse these concessions;
the town has less crime and a smaller
police force than any town of compar-
able size in NSW.”
Mr Delaney said he would not adopt
a “holier-than-thou” attitude towards
Broken Hill. But the locals still tell the
story of the high-ranking police officer
who went there about 10 years ago to
enforce the gambling and liquor laws.
When he got off the train no taxi-driver
would take him anywhere, no milkman
would call where he stayed, shopkeepers
would not serve him and he left within a
short time, defeated.
It is quite common to see a bookmaker
sitting at his table in a hotel, telephone at
his elbow, fields and prices on the special
board provided and several policemen
drinking a few feet away. While news-
papers elsewhere in NSW devoted con-
siderable space to the proceedings of the
inquiry into off-course betting by Mr
Justice Kinsella, Broken Hill’s two papers
displayed only a token interest in it. The
inquiry did not interest Broken Hill
people much. Irrespective of what betting
system is ultimately adopted as a result
of the inquiry, if it does not suit Broken
Hill it is unlikely to come into operation
there.
These irregularities have arisen partly
because of the city’s isolation. Surround-
ed by thousands of square miles of sheep
properties it is 700 miles from Sydney
and about 320 miles from Adelaide. It
has learned to fare for itself and has set
an example of self-help and good living.
One of its most remarkable schemes is
the Hospital Contributions Fund, form-
ed jointly by the unions and employers,
which provides free hospitalisation for
workers and their families. Employees
have 7s. 6d. a week deducted from their
wages, which also entitles them and their
families to free treatment at Broken Hill
and District Hospital’s outpatients de-
partment.
Until hospital charges rose on May 1
the contributions were only ss. a week.
A portion of the money is paid into a
special fund which provides a fifth of the
cost of hospital building projects. The
rest comes from the NSW Hospitals
Commission. The hospital, five storeys
high, with separate nurses’ quarters and
maternity block, is one of the finest in
the State.
A public amenities fund was established
A last year under the auspices of the BIC
and Mining Managers’ Association to
finance improvements to local parks,
ovals and Penrose Park, a popular picnic
spot 18 miles away at Silverton.
TT . , . , , -
Unemployment has increased to about
300 in Broken Hill ,n the past 18 months.
But for measures taken by the unions to
combat unemployment, the position
would be much worse. Unions strictly
enforce the one-man, one-job rule and
married women are not allowed to work.
The only married women permitted to
work are schoolteachers, nurses, part-
ners in a business and specialists who
cannot be replaced by single girls. Girls
who marry are given three months’ grace
from the date they marry to resign from
their jobs. Most finish as soon as they
marry. It is almost impossible for
strangers to the town, other than people
transferred from other centres, to get jobs
in front of locals.
The A and B grouper system still
operates to stop outsiders, attracted by
the big money paid at the mines, from
coming in and putting locals out of work.
An A grouper is a person who has lived
in Broken Hill all his life. He must be
given preference for a job. The B grouper
becomes an A grouper after he has lived
in the town eight years.
Czar of the trade unions is a short,
stocky miner, William O'Neil, president
of the BIC and thus undisputed King of
Broken Hill. Nicknamed “Shorty”, he
could be mistaken for a harassed train
conductor, but his booming authoritative
voice is listened to by friend and foe
alike. He hates Communists and they hate
him. The Communists wield no power in
the BlC—or any Broken Hill union—and
are never likely to while Shorty is boss.
However, there are now two Communists
on the predominantly Labor City Council.
The three Parliamentary representatives
from the Broken Hill district are all
Labor. They are the Minister for Educa-
tion, Mr E. Wetherell, and Mr E. Watti-
son, in State Parliament, and Mr J. J.
Clark, in Federal Parliament.
The BIC has its own newspaper, the
morning daily “Barrier Daily Truth”. It
took over the paper last year from the
WIU, which had operated it since its in-


ception as the world’s first Labor daily in
1908. Every unionist now has to buy the
paper, paying 2s. 6d. a week, 4d. daily for
the paper, a few pence for delivery and
a few pence as a “contribution” to the
running of the paper. Even where there
is more than one unionist in a family
each still has to pay. In some families
up to five members are paying. New Aus-
tralians who cannot read English also
have to pay for the paper.
The BIC has persuaded the mining
companies to deduct subscriptions for the
paper from employees’ wages, but other
business establishments refused. Although
the paper’s policy is, of course, for Labor
all the way, it is not treated as a propa-
ganda sheet and will give both points of
view, even when the BIC is under fire.
The BIC itself does not fail to dis-
cipline its members, nor do the unions.
The WIU has on occasions fined mem-
bers up to £3O for negligence on the
mines.
Broken Hill is a law unto itself, no
doubt, and should any Government try
to intervene it would more than likely
have a civil war on its hands.
Graeme Bell Makes
A Decision
When you no longer play for kicks, even jazz can become hard work
By JAN SMITH
B\ck in the public eye in Sydney
with a new band, recording con-
tracts and a weekly television show,
Graeme Bell is necessarily something
more than a footloose jazz pianist. After
late-night engagements at assorted clubs
and pubs—The Macquarie at Woolloo-
mooloo, the Monash Hut, Manly 16ft
Sailing Club—he rises early, breakfasts
sensibly and starts work at nine with the
help of a full-time secretary, Carol
Sewell.
The Graeme Bell of the early post-war
years, breakfasting off cold Christmas
pudding in Bloomsbury digs, taking the
Continent by storm with the Dixieland
Band, smiling from the Sunday papers
in an outre sports coat and black beret,
has mellowed since the band broke up
in 1953.
“I suppose you could say those 10
years were a sort of obscurity,” Bell
admitted, “but don’t get the idea I was
starving. There's jazzmen no one’s ever
heard of doing better behind the scenes
than any of the big names you read in
the paper.” Secure in the knowledge that
rock ’n’ roll would eventually die, he
was content to wait for jazz to be re-
discovered.
So, at 48, Bell is back from obscurity.
The slicked, dark brown hair, the re-
tracted eyelids, and the top-teeth-only
smile are the same. But there are changes.
He has not drunk since Christmas, and is
a regular worshipper at his local Presby-
terian Church after making a decision for
Christ at the last Billy Graham Crusade.
He denies any connection. “There’s
nothing religious about my giving up
drink,” he said. “I was just worried about
my liver, and the way I couldn’t think
properly the next morning.” But not
even the Reader’s Digest could make him
stop smoking. “I suppose it's all a ques-
tion of motivation,” he said, rummaging
in a crumpled pack of anti-cough
cigarettes. But he's found a nice girl
who doesn’t smoke, and has been married
to her for 15 months.
“Dorothy’s still working,” he said
“She's a private secretary with the copper
people. Were saving up for a terrace
house in Paddington. I know it’s not
frightfully original, but all our friends
happen to live there.”
As a small boy in Melbourne, Graeme
Bell was sent out on Saturday afternoons
for solo tours of the art galleries, clutch-
ing a little street map drawn by his
mother. But these early artistic forays
seem an isolated example of forethought,
and, until now, Bell’s life has shown little
sign of conscious planning. He was born
the younger of two brothers into a Scot-
tish-descended family in Melbourne, went
to Scots College and took a clerk’s job
in the T and G where he stayed for nine
years. “It wasn't as bad as it sounds, and
after five o'clock you could forget all
about it.
“In those days I was a die-hard classi-
cist. Our family had regular seats for the
subscription concerts and we never mis-
sed one. Then my brother started bring-
ing home jazz records there was about
one new release a month in those days.
After a while I was converted and we
used to hold jazz sessions at home on
Saturday afternoons.”
The family were gradually won over
with the exception of one Scottish grand-
mother. “She heard us listening to a Fats
Waller record one afternoon she was
a little bit deaf and she said, quite
incredulously, ‘A black man, playing the
piano?’ She couldn’t see a Negro doing
anything else but pick cotton, 1 sup-
pose. But I often think there’s still a
lot of people around who feel the same
way about jazz as she did something
freakish and unnatural.”
Bell and his band found an apprecia-
tive audience, playing for kicks at the
Melbourne Palais Royal and the
Heidelberg Town Hall in the early forties.
Soon after the war the seven-strong
band was brought to Sydney to record
their first batch of recordings for EMI.
Full of nervous energy, they were made
to play without shoes “we were too
used to stomping to be able to stop.”
In August, 1947, they set off for Prague
to attend a World Youth Festival as
representatives of the Eureka Youth
League. Here Bell is quick to explain that
political affiliations played no part in the
visit, and that, like all true artists, they
were beyond politics. At the time of the
Youth Festival, he may not have been
inclined to fine argument. Already
divorced and remarried, he was faced
with other problems such as money. But
help was at hand in the person of Mel
Langdon, an ex-Navy officer from Aus-
tralia. “It was Langdon who really
made us over into a professional group,”
Bell says.
There were performances at the
Leicester Square Jazz Club, where police
had to be called in to cope with the
traffic jams, and tours of Belgium, Hol-
land and France. Langdon, drinking in
a pub with Tommy Trinder, managed to
get them on the BBC. “Jazz wasn’t exact-
ly dead in England,” Bell explained, “but
it was pretty moribund. There were little
groups of terribly earnest blokes sitting
around in digs listening to records, and
maybe someone with a beard would read
a paper on the life of Beiderbecke, or
King Oliver. All very serious and arty
In public, jazz barely existed "
Returning to Australia they were wel-
comed by the ABC with offers of con-
certs, country tours and recordings, with
the not surprising proviso that all links
with the Eureka Youth League would
have to go.
It is in the country towns, says Bell,
that they have found the greatest sup-
port. On a recent tour of Victorian and
NSW country towns, crowds of up to
1300 turned out to hear the new band,
fresh from a season at Melbourne's
Moornba Festival. After the first Euro-
pean tour, it was much the same. Offers
came in for a return visit and. with fares
guaranteed, they set out again with three
new members in 1950, playing through-
out the British Isles, France, Belgium and
Germany, and climaxing with a Royal
Performance at London's Festival Hall.
They returned to do a second ABC
country tour and kept on for six months
until, suffering from exhaustion and


mm i
■
f?§£-•;*•>■'
Si
-
■
- *
l
smsz
m
m***
m*
*
**
..ss**''
■
*
mi
m
ssr
M
&
*
\
m
Count-down at Canaveral
Burroughs guides missiles with the same accuracy as it
guides business through mountains of decisions
Executing a space shot is a task so
immensely complex and subject to so
many split-second decisions that only a
highly reliable guidance system can do it.
So, the Burroughs guidance computer
system was chosen for Cape Canaveral.
In all, this Burroughs system has thus far
been used in more than 143 space explora-
tions, performing perfectly every time.
The same concepts of accuracy and
reliability in the Burroughs system at Cape
Canaveral are built into every Burroughs
business machine.
Be it computing, calculating, accounting
the Burroughs you select to help guide
your business, will provide you with up-to-
date information the moment you need it
to make the right decision . . . decisions
that will keep your business operating
smoothly, progressively, profitably.
Burroughs is the machine to grow with ...
8U175D
12 Key Adding Machine, or electronic
computer.. . whatever the need,
there’s a Burroughs business machina
to provide the answer.
Like to learn more of how Burroughs Machines
can benefit your business? Then call your
Burroughs man at Sydney Metropolitan Area
76 \A/illiam St. Phone 31-0541
221 Broadway Phone 61-9865
35 Burwood Rd., Burwood Phone 74-1256
Also at Newcastle, Lismore, Tamworth, Bathurst
Wollongong, Canberra, Wagga and Griffith.


family pressures, they decided one wet
day in a Yass hotel to disband. Now
separated from his second wife, Bell
dropped from public view to teach clas-
sical piano, and make nightclub appear-
ances.
His early training in art now came to
the surface, and in 1958 Bell, a former
student of Max Meldrum in Melbourne,
opened the Paris art gallery in what is
now his home a Double Bay flat close
to the shopping centre. The art gallery
was not a success, mainly, he feels, be-
cause he was 10 years, or maybe just
five, before his time. But the flat, newly
decorated by his friend, sculptor Clem
Meadmore, is hung with outsize Japan-
ese lanterns and a collection of Bell’s
favorite paintings all Australian.
For reflective moments, classics are
his first love. “Bach is my favorite. It’s
pure music, no flourishes. Every time you
listen you hear something you didn’t pick
up before. Only a really good pianist, and
preferably an old one, can play Bach.”
With carefully mellowed tolerance, he
pities the immature, the teenage idols
pushed into disproportionate success by
unscrupulous managers. “I could think
of nothing worse than to be all washed
up at 20,” he said, wincing elaborately at
a mess of his press clippings, which go
back to before his secretary was born.
He has, however, had his moments of
glory, with screaming crowds and auto-
graph hunters, so his pity is possibly
without sourness.
His own manager, banker and publicity
man, Bell today is neatly cautious and,
despite the gay but well-creased red shirts
and mattress ticking trousers, a far cry
from New Orleans’ Storyville, where
wives, livers and godly doubts could be
resolved with less inhibition than nowa-
days. When you no longer play for kicks,
even jazz can become hard work.
“A Salable Sneer”
His face - unrecognised - is his fortune
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Expatriate actor Allan Cuthbertson,
home after 17 years, is gratified to
find that his face, which has ap-
peared in nearly 70 films, passes entirely
unnoticed in the streets, and that he has
to spell out his name, which has been on
nearly 70 credit-titles.
Mr Cuthbertson’s stock-in-trade as an
actor is a “salable sneer.” As a screen
villain, his sneer only goes on being of
value so long as it is not immediately
recognisable. To find that he is still
unknown in his homeland means that
Mr Cuthbertson can reasonably look for-
ward to another 17 years standing in the
shadow of such actors as Gregory Peck,
Alec Guinness and David Niven.
Most of Mr Cuthbertson’s films have
been British, although he has made films
in Hollywood, including “On the Double”
with Danny Kaye. Many, including
The Guns of Navarone,” made in
Greece, have been filmed on location.
It was at the end of 2i months in Malaya
making “The Year of the Dragon” with
William Holden and Capucine that he
sneaked, back to see his home-town,
Perth, for the first time since he joined
the services in 1940 (apart from three
weeks’ leave during which he had
malaria). He has also seen his brother,
Henry Cuthbertson, head of drama for
the ABC in Victoria.
In Sydney Mr Cuthbertson visited
Lady Street, who, as Mrs Jessie Street,
was a member of a feminist delegation
to Prague in 1938. There Lady Street
met a young girl who had just graduated
in law. Lady Street exercised some
influence to enable the girl to come to
Australia. The girl lived with the
Streets for some time, taught languages
and graduated with honors in Arts from
Sydney University. Later she married
Mr Cuthbertson. She now teaches in
England. They have one son, aged 14.
Mr Cuthbertson’s 70-odd films now
mean for him a pleasant house near
Hampton Court, the regulation Sidney
Nolan on the walls (“I had a Leda but
I got into a spot of bother with the tax
people and I let it go for £ 125; now it’s
worth £4OO, but I still have a Nolan
landscape”) and as much work as he
can do.
“I think one of the important things
is that I do most jobs offering,” he said.
“I talk to Australian actors who say they
have been out of work for six months,
but they turn down work if they don’t
like the role. I take most things,
although I can command a fair fee these
days. But if I’m not working and they
offer me a couple of days in an Agatha
Christie at Shepparton, out I go.”
Mr Cuthbertson seems to feel that the
secret of his successes has been that he
has never played an Australian. “I was
offered the role of an Australian in ‘The
Hasty Heart’ in 1947 and that was one
part I turned down,” he said. “It was
the best day’s work I ever did.” He feels
that if he had played an Australian, he
would have been cast only in Australian
parts, and that would have been fatal.
However, now he would like to come
back to play in a film being made
locally, but is sure he would be ruled
out because he cannot do a satisfactory
Australian accent.
Mr Cuthbertson’s 11 years of screen
villainy began on stage as Romeo.
“I did ‘Romeo and Juliet’ at a little
theatre in London,” he said. “After that
I did a good deal of work for the BBC,
both sound and TV. In those days tele-
vision really was something, and all
these years after I’m still not fond of it.
We used to do 2J-hour plays, such as
‘Mary Rose,’ live on Sunday night and
repeat them, still live, of course the
BBC has still only just heard of the
videotape—on Thursday night. The cam-
eras were as big as this desk and the
cables as big as oil pipes. And in those
days there were only 2000 television sets
in the whole of London, with a screen
about as big as a cigar-box, so you
could hardly ever find anywhere where
you could watch programmes and learn
anything from them.”
Mr Cuthbertson then had a number of
stage flops, 18 months at the Windsor
Repertory as leading man, then parts in
John Clements’s highly successful “The
Beaux’s Stratagem” and during the
Festival of Britain “Man and Superman.”
Anthony Asquith took him from the
stage production of “Carrington, VC”
into the film version with David Niven.
Since then Mr Cuthbertson has not done
a stage part.
“I get offers every year but there is
so much risk,” he said. “Nobody knows
what the public wants these days. A
stage show might mean four weeks’ re-
hearsal, four weeks on tour and then 10
days in the West End if the public
doesn’t like the play. That’s six months’
work virtually for nothing.
“And 1 must say I don't feel much
sympathy with the plays being written
now. 1 went to ‘Waiting for Godot’
several times to see if 1 really would
begin to get something out of it, but I
still came to the conclusion that it is
designed to keep people out of the
theatre. T want plays that will get people
back into the theatre.
“I saw ‘The Season at Sarsaparilla’
last night. Most of the acting was quite
bad. The whole cast needs a bomb under
it. What was that young man doing
being so frightfully portentous, explain-
ing scenes and actions which explained
themselves? And why is the play
approached so reverently? Why should
people be reverent about Patrick White
whom I do admire as novelist
when they aren’t about Shakespeare and
Shaw?
“I'm afraid really my tastes in theatre
are fairly derriere garde and Edwardian.”


OVERSEAS
A Very Human “Father
Of Princes and Kings”
John XXIII - preaching a peace with no strings attached
A PROFILE
(At the time of going to press, Pope John was reported sinking fast)
Each time anew man is elected and
crowned with the Triple Crown
as “Father of Princes and Kings,
the Ruler of the World on Earth, the
Vicar of our Savior,” he must suffer a
weight of adulation and public flattery
that would bewilder even the party chair-
man in Moscow. John XXIII has been no
exception. It extends even to many non-
Catholics.
In fact he is reassuringly human, but
not too much so. He takes a glass of
wine with his gardener. He visits the bed-
sides of old friends. He cracks little jokes.
He patently enjoys being Pope and what
it allows him to do. He twinkles at
visitors and is unpompous.
He seems to share the newjiunger of
many sorts of Christians for an end to
the scandal of divided Christendom. He
seems to go easy on the Petrine thunders
in favor of less dogmatic charity. And
the favorable popular impression is
probably close to the truth.
The “caretaker” Pope has done more
to revolutionise Roman Catholic attitudes
than any pope since Paul the Third
summoned the Fathers to Trent in 1545.
Moreover, the news that Pope John is
mortally sick is a fact of political as
well as religious importance. In Italy,
as in no other country, John XXIII is a
controversial figure. The poor and the
humble adore him. They feel he belongs
to them. In a world full of intrigue and
chicanery they see him tower above
politics and group interests. They feel
that the peace he preaches has no strings
attached to it and no mental reserva-
tions. It is peace between men of all
nations, regardless of ideology, race or
creed.
His “Peace on Earth” encyclical at
Easter was the latest massive instalment
of his plan to bring his Church into rela-
tionship with the modern world. The task
before him is to reconcile the Church
with the world force of Communism.
The effect of the Pope’s encyclical on
the state of the cold war will be pro-
found. It marks the end of that close
sympathy and friendship with the United
States that has been the principal featura
of Vatican policy since the War. The
Pope quickly disposed of the suggestion
that the Ecumenical Council should not
discuss the issue of war and atomic wea-
pons for fear of alienating the Americans.
His encyclical shocked the traditionalists
by distinguishing between the philosophy
of Communism, which he rejects, and
some of its practical achievements,
he praises.
Few popes have been as popular. This
was demonstrated during Lent, when, as
Vicar of Rome, he visited some of the
poorest parishes on the outskirts of the
capital, places where hundreds of immi-
grants from the South are living in shacks
despite the economic miracle. Many Ital-
ian conservatives pursed their lips over
these papal sorties. They said a pope
should keep a proper distance between
himself and the crowds, and that his
place was in the Vatican.
In Milan, in banking and industrial
circles, his name is often mentioned with
sighs. “Such Popes are sent to try us,”
they imply. “Many of those who love
him know little about his work.” But
most Italians regard him as the real
architect of the new trend in Italian
politics known as the “opening to the
Left.”
This is a rapprochement between the
Nenni Socialists, once allied to the Com-
munists, and the dominant Catholic
Party, the Christian Democrats. The
“Opening” took effect ir March, 1962,
when the Socialists agreed to support a
coalition government of Christian Demo-
crats, Social Democrats and Republicans.
But the new course has run into difficul-
ties. Last January the Christian Demo-
crats, after nationalising the electricity in-
dustry, took fright and refused to imple-
ment the rest of the agreed programme.
The Socialists resumed their freedom of
action, but declared they were still ready
to re-form the alliance.
Then, at the general election on April
28, the Christian Democrats lost ground,
while the Communists gained an ad-
ditional million votes, giving them 25.5
per cent of the total. The Prime Minister,
Signor Fanfani, was partially discredited
by these events. He resigned after the
elections and President Segni has in-
vited the secretary of the Christian Demo-
crat Party, Signor Aldo Moro, to form
a government.
Signor Moro is now trying to patch up
the alliance with the Socialists, but the
difficulties in his way are immense. In
these circumstances the news that the
Pope has perhaps only a short time to live
is a very serious blow. The Christian
Democrats cannot be led united along
the path to the Left without support from
the Church, and not all the bishops, not


The New
Tomato Juice
Cocktail by
Schweppes
n
12803
IT HAS ADDED SPICES FOR
A PIQUANT TASTE!
.Schweppes
tomato jui £E
cocktail
.
IN 4 1 /2 oz. CANS.
A SCHWEPPES JUICE IS THE NATURAL JUICE
at your Club, Hotel, Milk Bar, Store.


even all the members of the Curia, are
convinced that the opening to the Left
is a good thing. In particular, Cardinal
Siri, head of the Italian Episcopal Com-
mission, is known to be hostile to it. But
the new course which John XXIII has
given, not only to Italian politics but to
the affairs on a world level of the Roman
Catholic Church, cannot be easily re-
versed.
The opening to the Left in Italian
politics was not for the Pope an end in
itself. His aim was to create a political
climate in Italy favorable to the great
Ecumenical Council which is his life’s
work. At the same time Pope John
wished to break the traditional pattern
which tended to show the Church, or at
least its hierarchy, in close political
association with the dominant conserva-
tive or reactionary groups in many Catho-
lic countries in Europe and Latin
America.
As for the Ecumenical Council, his
purpose here was to confront his Curia,
which tends to be an inward-looking,
egocentric body, with the great religious
ferment at work in the Roman Catholic
world. The conflict between neo-modern-
ists and conservatives has come into the
open and must run its course. No
future Pope, even if he wished it, could
undo what John XXIII has done. But it
is a sad thing that in all probability this
great man may not live to see the open-
ing of the second session of the Vatican
Council on September 8.
A peasant’s son
Tohn xxiii came from a village on the
** edge of the Lombardy Plain. His
father was a non-land-owning peasant in
the village of Sotto il Monte. Angelo
Giuseppe Roncalli was the third of 13
children and was born in 1881 in a
dank tenement in a village that all but
ignored the Risorgimento, and where the
men were strong, slow individualists of
uncomplicated faith.
He left home at the age of ten as a
candidate for the priesthood. Asa
clerical student he did years of military
service as a sergeant in the infantry,
and after ordination was secretary to his
bishop. His was the life of a priest of
promise. He taught other candidates for
the priesthood. He kept a love of his
village, his bishop, and his diocese that
still shows unashamedly from time to
time. He began a major history of the
Church in Bergamo that he finished 50
years later.
He was called up in the First World
War as a hospital orderly and chaplain.
And at forty he was taken into the
Roman bureaucracy. He was a senior
civil servant concerned with the spread
of the faith. He still taught, and was a
specialist in patristics (a study of the
writings of the Fathers of the Church),
especially in the first six councils of
the Church which were held before the
Latins and Greeks divided.
And then came the experience that
set him apart; in 1925 he was sent to
Bulgaria as apostolic visitor and arch-
bishop, a job that was in part pastoral
among the 50,000 Latin Christians there
and part, unofficially, diplomatic. For
nearly 20 years he lived among the
Greek Orthodox and later among the
Muslims of Turkey.
A considerable scholar, who spoke
Bulgarian, Greek, Russian and Turkish,
he developed some of the traditional
exclusiveness of Rome moderated by the
loneliness of representing a suspect
minority. The orthodox clergy, for
reasons even older than the fall of
Byzantium, had little but suspicion of
the Latins, and yet they, by Archbishop
Roncalli’s standards, were as true priests
as he, and only the most trivial doctrinal
points divided them.
It was a humble way of seeing the
tragic fact of Christian disunity. He was
not by law allowed to live in Athens, but
he helped the Greeks with appeals to the
West for food during the War. He dealt
with the Greek Primate, Archbishop
Damaskinos, and treated him as a
superior in honor. He dealt privately
with the Ecumenical Patriarch in Istan-
bul. All this experience was radically
different from that of a Vatican official
or an Italian diocesan bishop.
In 1944 he was sent as Apostolic
Nuncio to Paris, a post that under the
Congress of Vienna made him auto-
matically dean of the Diplomatic Corps.
He had to face the demands of the
French for the deposition of bishops who
had collaborated with Vichy (three of
them were deposed in the end). He had
to counsel delay and conciliation when
the worker priests of the French slums
turned more and more to the political
Left. And he had to deal with the
Catholic Government of the MRP.
In Paris and, indeed, later in Rome,
he was quietly at pain;' to avoid identify-
ing the Church with a political party. He
made friends with the French anti-
clericals and received his cardinal’s
biretta kneeling at the feet of an
agnostic French President. Later, as
Cardinal Patriarch of Venice, a position
of Renaissance splendor, he visited the
Town Council, which contained its share
of Communists, and said to them “. . .
there may be some here who do not call
themselves Christians, but who can be
acknowledged as such on account of
their good deeds.”
He did not, in fact, tolerate Marxists,
and the laws of his Church still forbid
it. But he was unusually tolerant of th«
Left.
Soon after his coronation he with-
drew the formal recognition of his
government from the emigre govern-
ments from East European States. This
gave rise to the idea that he sought a
compromise with Communism. In fact,
it was an act of prudence always a
Roman virtue even of the sort of
realism that shocks many opponents of
Rome. The continued recognition rep-
resented an additional and gratuitous
reason for the Communists to accuse
their Catholic subjects of disloyalty in
their loyalty to Rome. The Church con-
siders it has a dual duty to maintain
its principles and to protect its faith-
ful. The two are often irreconcilable. In
this case the Pope made a commonsense
decision that had no ideological signi-
ficance.
A preposterous, old motor car
TTe was elected Pope in 1958 when
nearly 77. He belonged to no par-
ticular party in the Church. Many
thought he was a safe choice, a tran-
sitional pontiff. But despite his civil
service background he had always
insisted that he was a pastor first.
As Pope he broke with recent pre-
cedent. Riding in a preposterous old
motor car with throne for a back seat,
he visited prisons and hospitals. He even
occasionally ate with an old friend He
raised the salaries of the Vatican staff
from cardinals down to sweepers.
There was little of revolution in his
changes. He made many new cardinals
and broke up the pluralism and centrali-
sation encouraged by Pius XII. But his
new men were still old men. He removed
a shameful prayer offensive to the Jews
from the Good Friday liturgy. He
abated some of the breathless ceremony
that surrounds a Pope. He cared sin-
cerely for the well-being of Africans, but
most of his words about the new coun-
tries were words of caution. He received
a bewildering variety of religious leaders,
but avoided direct reference to reunion
when talking to them.
A pope is not circumscribed by a con-
stitution or a democratic system, and yet
the Roman Church is not a one-man
band. A pope is bound by tradition,
dogma and precedent, and surrounded by
a professional civil service and discreet
pressure groups. Uniquely among sov-
ereigns, the Pope both rules and reigns
and identifies himself with his predeces-
sors and successors. He is only a part of
a process without political urgency. Pius
XII had been a centraliser, tortured,
withdrawn, and perhaps, towards the end,
a sick man. John XXIII introduced both
some of the old ways and anew note


fifty-nfty with TEACHERS
Highland Cream Scotch Whisky
Try-it—and you’ll dig it too! So will
your friends! Wherever you find it,
water’s divine*— -fifty-fifty with un-
mistakable Teacher’s. It’s the socially
acceptable drink. But there’s
no need to search for it. Just
ask for it anywhere—water,
fifty-fifty with Teacher’s.
*There , s soda for those who prefer it.
N.S.W. Agents:
Tucker & Co. Pty. Limited
335 Kent St., Sydney.
Distributors of fine spirits
for 125 years.
H
Teachers
WHISKY
TW29.84S
of humanity and charity towards oppo-
nents which the Christian world has
found to its present taste.
His achievement has been his decision
to call a General Council of the Church.
In the past General Councils have ten-
ded to be affairs that the Pope endured
rather than wanted. This second Vatican
Council was wholly of his doing, and it
came as a surprise to the Church. And
not all the Church wanted it. It is the
work of a non-revolutionary old man
who has seen and admired the other side
of the question. It is not directed against
anything even against Communism.
It is the work of a man who believes ab-
solutely in all the traditions and dogmas
and disciplines of Rome, and who yet
believes they can be expressed with a
new charity and clarity that will serve
the cause of Christ, (ofns.)
Berlin: Two May Days
The jerky movements of a silent film
By PETER KELLY
(Recently returned from Germany)
Less than 100 yards from where the
Lord Mayor of Berlin, Willy
Brandt, stood and addressed the
crowd of over 500,000 on May Day was
the Wall. Had he turned his back to
the crowd he could have seen the West
Berlin police strolling casually on its
free side. Over the Wall, past the death-
strip, past a criss-crossed iron fence
erected to prevent escape by car, he
could have seen the discreetly placed
heads and rifles of the Vopos (People’s
Police) “protecting” the people of East
Berlin from escaping to the West Ger-
man “Imperialists.”
Since August 13, 1961, a new di-
mension has been added to May Day in
Berlin. It has become more than the
first day of spring and the international
Labor Day holiday. This was evident in
the theme accented by Willy Brandt,
Otto Brenner, the president of the nearly
2,000,000-strong Metal Workers’ Union,
and other trade union leaders who re-
ferred constantly to their brothers on the
other side of the Wall. And the term
“brothers” was not just a political eu-
phemism designed to arouse the crowd
to an emotional fervor: it was a fact.
The presence on the May Day plat-
form of Mrs John Foster Dulles, the en-
thusiastic applause for this month’s visit
to West Berlin of President Kennedy and
General Clay (the architect of the Ber-
lin air-lift) indicated that German trade
unionists were preoccupied with the East-
West division even at a time when a
steel strike over wage rises threatened to
snowball into a nation-wide show-down
between the industrialists and trade
unions.
At one stage during his speech Brandt
gestured towards the ruins of the Reich-
stag, about 200 yards to his left next
to the now desolate Brandenburg Gate,
and told the crowd that no form of
tyranny could be tolerated whether it
came from the Reichstag or from the
other side of the Wall.
After the speeches a gasp went up
from most of the 500,000 people as a
large flock of doves circled two or three
times over the crowd, around the Bran-
denburg Gate, over the Wall into East
Berlin and on into East Germany.
Back at a reception given by Brandt
to visitors and trade union officials, the
West Berlin Lord Mayor said it was
difficult for a politician to speak to
a May Day crowd so close to the
Wall without arousing in it dangerous
emotion. “This situation can’t last for-
ever it must eventually erupt. How
soon? Well, it all depends on what you
mean by soon. But the problem here in
Berlin can never be resolved on its own
it has to be solved in a much larger
context. Since the American action in
Cuba last year the Berlin people have
had more confidence in the future of
what President Kennedy means by the
‘Atlantic Alliance’.”
★ ★ ★
West Berliners turning on their tele-
vision sets to the East German coverage
of May Day must have wondered as
they watched the goose-stepping People’s
Army, the display of military might, the
tight discipline of the East Berliners
marching in factory groups, the endless
nagging propaganda signs, “We are for
Peace and Socialism against the West
German Imperialists.”
★ ★ ★
For two women, obviously sisters, May
Day meant that they could stand just
outside the Wall and talk to another
member of their family leaning out of
the third storey of a building in the East
sector about 50 yards away. What they
said was hard to find out. Apart from
shouting they communicated by moving
their arms in what looked like a jerky
caricature of a silent film.
For others in the West, May Day was
an occasion to place flowers at the foot
of crosses stuck roughly in the ground
where somebody had failed to escape.
★ ★ ★
Confusion exists both sides of the Wall.
Doubts, fears and hopes are common to
the two Berlins.
A young East German doctor, a con-
vinced Communist, when asked what ex-
planation he could offer for the Wall as
the only barrier in human history built
to keep people in, shrugged his shoul-
ders, remained silent for a moment and
then said: “Yes. It is terrible. But we too
have our problems.”


FORUM
The New Satirists
A “wet" humorist's protest
By ROSS CAMPBELL
\ FEW weeks ago on the ABC television programme “The Critics *
they were talking about two books of the funny kind. One was a
selection of Australian humorous writings, the other was an English
satirical job in cartoons called “Private Eye on London”. The Critics were
pretty hard on the Australian humor book. They were not amused by it,
not even one bit. The trouble was, they said, Australian humor was rustic
and corny. They compared it very unfavourably with “Private Eye on
London”, which is an up-to-date work full of knowing jibes at politicians,
Royalty, and so on. What a pity, said one Critic, that Australia did not
turn out more satire like that.
The only Critic with any reservation
was Jean Battersby. Miss B. is my favor-
ite critic because she looks so scrumptious.
Sometimes when the opinions expressed
on the programme are snooty and annoy-
ing I turn off the sound and just look at
Jean Battersby. On this occasion, as I
say, cute critic Battersby entered a de-
murrer by saying she did not think the
humor of the Private Eye book went
very deep. She had a good point there.
Private Eye on London is one of the
productions of the group of young wise
guys from Cambridge who are cleaning
up with the so-called new satire in Bri-
tain, and although the book has a few
laughs, deep is certainly what it is not.
However, Mr Max Harris, the chairman
of this television discussion, summed up
briskly by saying the panel was agreed
that English humor was more mature
than the Australian variety, and that was
that.
Glamorous Samuel Hoare
My own attitude to satire is two-
faced, or ambivalent, as The Critics
would say. On the one hand I often
laugh at satirical jokes, though not quite
as much as in my youth when I lived
in England and thought Beachcomber of
the “Daily Express” was the funniest man
in the world. One of his poems still
haunts my mind:
Of all our splendid statesmen
The two that I most adore
Are vital, colorful Kingsley Wood
And glamorous Samuel ~Hoare.
Yes, I like good satire as much as the
next man. Some of my best friends are
satirists. At the same time it happens
that by choice, and to make a living, I
write attemptedly humorous stuff that is
not satirical. I have noticed that sophis-
ticated persons, like those you see on
The Critics, generally look down on non-
satirical humor and describe it as “wet,”
while they are very keen on satire and
consider it a public-spirited activity.
Satire appeals to Jones, the smart chap
whom others try to keep up with; Robin-
son, the more homely type next door who
lags in the rat-race, is the audience for
humor of the other kind. Feiffer, for
example, is a Jones strip, while Blondie
is a Robinson. Naturally we of the “wet”
humorists’ union, which has a strong
branch in Australia, feel a little touchy
on this subject. Why, we ask, should the
“dry” humorists be considered so much
more useful citizens?
For Discriminating People?
There was another instance of it report-
ed in the London “Observer”. Professor
Richard Hoggart, an authority on the
cultural state of the masses, was asked
to comment on the popularity of the
satirical TV programme “That Was The
Week That Was.” He said: “TW’s success
helps to prove what I have been saying
all along, that people are more intelligent
and discriminating than they are allowed
to be by those who simply exploit tho
sentimental and glamorous side of their
tastes with commercial variety shows.” I
don’t think any pundit ever said the
British public was intelligent and dis-
criminating for watching Tony Hancock,
great comedian though he is. It is only
when people show an interest in the
bright boys who can do funny imitations
of Mr Macmillan that they are credited
with taste and intelligence.
Part of the strength of the satirists is
that they have a kind of built-in pro-
tective apparatus. They can claim to be
doing a public service by drawing atten-
tion to the foolish or reprehensible aspects
of the people they send up. We “wet”
humorists, by contrast, are only engag-
ed in the disreputable business of “try-
ing to be funny,” and woe betide us if
we are not. Again, the satirist enjoys
the privilege of being immune from satire
himself. As they say in show business,
you can’t burlesque a burlesque. Because
of the peculiar difficulty of ridiculing
someone who is ridiculing someone else,
even an incompetent satirist escapes some
of the ignominy of the ordinary wag
whose jokes fall flat.
The Imperfections of Others
While pondering the disadvantages of
the wet humorist's lot, as against that
of the satirist, I came across an unexpect-
ed ally in the person of Thomas Hobbes.
This attractively cranky philosopher has
surprised many readers by defining
laughter as “sudden glory”, meaning a
sudden feeling of being pleased with
yourself. He did this because apparently
he could not conceive of any jokes that
were not satirical. Men laugh, he wrote,
“by the apprehension of some deformed
thing in another, by comparison whereof
they suddenly applaud themselves. And
it (laughter) is incident most to them who
are conscious of the fewest abilities in
themselves; who are forced to keep them-
selves in their own favor by observing the
imperfections of other men. And there-
fore much laughter at the defects of
others is a sign of pusillanimity.”
This passage, I think, shows a good
deal of psychological insight and helps
towards a balanced view of satire. Let us
have satire in Australia by all means,
along with other kinds of fun. But I
question the finding of The Critics that
the main criterion of Australian humor-
ists is their capacity to give three hearty
British sneers. Unfashionable Robinson,
who has been amused by Steele Rudd,
Lennie Lower, and Nino Culotta, is not
such a naive and negligible person after
all. The man with the sharp-eyed shade
of Hobbes looking over his shoulder,
as he laughs complacently at the defects
of others, is Jones.


* v*. ’ ‘it ' , vl
: v> ' '"-iA
yv ■ . :
MS
■
■ '
'A..
. {, ’
y '■
c
.rf
•: *
L* « |
....... k
;:::::.
.
mmm
> Si
m
,
111
kO
biere, biiru,birra. Lufthansa calls it beer
One of the unique things about the
Lufthansa way of flying is the hearty
German beer that is served direct from
the keg for those who want it.
Or the black bread and Westphalian
ham that comes sweet and pink from
the bone.
Sometimes though, such eulogy of
Teutonic gastronomy tends to hide the
fact that Lufthansa is essentially an
international airline as familiar with
flying Japanese to Johannesburg as it
is Scotsmen to San Francisco.
Lufthansa flight crews speak and
understand the kind of language you
choose to use.
Ask for beer and you get it.
With a smile because that’s the way
Lufthansa likes serving you.
Lufthansa, the German international
airline, serves most continents, most
cities that Australian businessmen
travel to.
Ask your travel agency to show you
how Lufthansa can serve you next trip
overseas.
Birra or Beer?
Lufthansa also serves fine Australian
wines.
LAI 17418.
YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR TAA HAS FULL DETAILS
LUFTHANSA
GERMAN AIRLINES


letters
to the
editor
THE ORR CASE
Sir,
The University of Tasmania should
by now be convinced that the mere
passage of time will not solve the Orr
case. After eight years there are still
many persons and organisations who
strongly condemn the procedures of the
University throughout the case, and con-
sider that the passage of time has in-
creased and not diminished the injustice
done to Professor Orr. In these circum-
stances, rightly or wrongly, the Uni-
versity’s standing in the academic com-
munity cannot be restored.
Thus, if the University of Tasmania
is convinced of the justice of its case,
and, if it is anxious to restore its own
prestige, surely the logical course for it
to follow would be to institute a new
enquiry (by a committee agreed upon
by all parties) since the University is
apparently confident that its own stand
would be justified by such an enquiry.
Instead, it has kept silent, apparently
hoping that the case would be forgotten.
Indeed, the only major effort that it
has made has been to issue a pamphlet
which has resulted in a further court
action and a further prolongation of the
case.
It is hard not to believe that certain
members of the University Council are
more interested in preserving their own
reputations than in restoring the name of
the University. Perhaps they remember
the findings of the Royal Commission
into the University of Tasmania, many
of the recommendations of which have
still not been carried out by the Uni-
versity authorities.
PETER WILENSKI
President, National Union
of Australian University Students
Sydney (NSW).
SIR HUGH FOOT’S TOUR
Sir,
I was delighted to see your “Plain
English” item (18/5/63) about Sir Hugh
Foot and his tour in New Guinea. It
might interest you to see these extracts
from a letter which he wrote to me
shortly after he had returned from New
Guinea; you seem to have divined his
thoughts very well:
“I was sorry that our report on New
Guinea got off to such a bad start in
Australia. I remain convinced that it
would be very much in the interests of
Australia to get a really representative
legislature established, so that the sound
views of the people of New Guinea can
be heard and respected.
“I make only two points about the
proposal of our Mission that preparations
should go ahead for a representative
Parliament in Australian New Guinea
and Papua. First, it takes a year or two
to make these preparations, and my ex-
perience is that it can be a serious mis-
take to put this off. If no preparations
are made it may well appear in a year
or two that a representative body would
be most useful but it will not be possible
to create it in a hurry. Secondly, what
our Mission proposed was merely a rep-
resentative legislature. We well recognise
that ministerial government must come
at a later stage and, in fact, even with
a representative legislature Australian
control of policy and of finance would
continue. I really don’t think that the
dangers are anything like as great as
some people have made out.”
W. F. M. CLEMENS
Melbourne (Vic.)
“CONFUSION IN CANADA”
Sir,
I am troubled about the article by
George McGann, “Confusion in Canada”
(20/4/63). It has been true that in
recent months the political situation in
Canada has been slightly confusing; the
article indicates the author is far more
confused than is the Canadian public.
For instance:
Paragraph 3: “Diefenbaker failed to
win the Canadian public over to his
peculiar brand of anti-Americanism.”
John Diefenbaker is primarily pro-
Canadian. The American public and the
reporters particularly regard anyone who
is not outstandingly vocal in his praise
of everything American as anti-Ameri-
can. The fact is, the Canadian public
rejected Diefenbaker because he was
unable to make basic and necessary
decisions. He was fine on the stump, but
when confronted with difficult decisions
he refused to take vigorous action.
Paragraph 4: “Canadian politics had
been bedevilled for six years by Diefen-
baker’s failure to win workable
majorities.” This is absolutely untrue.
In 1957 Diefenbaker won, but not with
a clear-cut majority. In 1958 Diefen-
baker won more seats in the House than
any leader in Canadian history. In 1962
his majority was cut, but was still work-
able. In what is pure history, how could
your columnist make such a colossal
error?
Paragraph 2: “The US State Depart-
ment had assisted in the fall of the
Diefenbaker Government . . .” If that
were true, which it is not, the State
Department would be more weighty than
the whole Canadian electorate. Obviously
this is not true.
Paragraph beginning “Pearson . , . ,
failed four times before this election.’*
Untrue again. St Laurent was the Liberal
Prime Minister in 1957. When he lost
the election, he resigned as Prime
Minister and subsequently the leadership
of the Liberals. Pearson succeeded him,
and in the 1958 election Pearson failed
to win. Pearson again failed in 1962,
this time by a narrow margin. That
makes twice. Pearson is now Prime
Minister (1963). Where does your cor-
respondent get the four times?
GEORGE HARRAP
Acton (Ontario).
BANNED NOVEL?
Sir,
In the article “The New Negroes” by
Sondra Silverman (18/5/63), reference
is made to the American Negro essayist
and novelist James Baldwin. In an
authoritative review in “The Times
Literary Supplement” (8/2/63), Bald-
win’s new novel, “Another Country,”
was described as “a tragic panegyric of
the individual human being.” The
novel’s two main characters are claimed
to be among the most complex creations
in the modern novel, and the major
conflict of these and other inter-racial
characters is symbolised by the novel’s
warning, “We must love one another
or die.”
In view of recent events in South
Africa and the US, the novel’s stated
theme is ominously relevant. The
English edition of “Another Country” has
been published by Michael Joseph Ltd,
London, and has been on sale in England
since January. On enquiry at several
leading Sydney book shops I was told
that “Another Country” was not avail-
able in Australia. The reason given was
that the novel was the subject of a
“censorship enquiry” and all available
copies had been seized by the Customs
Department. If this is the case, are Aus-
tralians to be denied the right to read
this important book by one Of America’s
leading liberal writers whom the
London Press has described as “a very
considerable moral critic”?
“STUDENT”
Newcastle (NSW).
PROTESTANT “SECT”
Sir,
A fellow Anglican has drawn my
attention to a serious fallacy in Kathleen
Forster’s letter (4/5/63) dealing with the
newest Anglican heresy, “Honest to
God.” The writer confesses she is no
theologian, but is obviously a well-
informed reader. How, then, can she
refer to Bishop Robinson as a member
of a “Protestant Sect”? Whatever defects
she may see in Anglicanism, sectarianism
is not one of them. While the Church
of England entertains the widest dif-
ferences in doctrine and worship, she
has maintained her comprehensiveness
through the ages in unbroken continuity
with the earliest British church. She still
can make a valid claim to be the
Ecclesia AngJicana, and her varied


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Hanking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
O’SULLIVAN
■% ptyltd '-V
trade
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAP HERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
‘•JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
history is a standing protest against
sectarianism. Liberty has become licence
perhaps, but no party has followed
Methodism into corporate division.
Most of us would share Kathleen
Forster’s amazement at the views ex-
pressed in “Honest to God.” As a violent
reaction against a narrow fundamentalism
it may be timely, but it verges on
pantheism. If Jesus Christ was not above
and beyond this little globe of ours
Christianity can give little hope and
peace to the world. However great our
internal differences, we are all agreed on
“the church’s one foundation.”
(DEAN) H. T. LANGLEY
Caulfield ( Victoria ).
WHITE AUSTRALIA
Sir,
When Peter Westerway (“Unscramb-
ling White Australia,” 27/4/63) refers to
the strange bedfellows who support the
White Australia policy, he conveniently
neglects to mention the great body of
public opinion in Australia which stands
firm behind the policy. It surely is of
interest to note that every political party
(of any consequence) in Australia
supports the present policy of restricted
immigration. It should also be realised
that whilst those in authority in the
various churches may advocate the
abandonment of the present immigra-
tion policy for Australia, it must be re-
membered that the members of these
churches have never had a chance to
vote on the issue. The church leaders
would themselves be fearful of carrying
the so-called “Christian principles” into
effect.
Australia’s present policy of restricted
immigration is based upon long years of
experience; it has not been found want-
ing at any period of our history. It has
made possible the very rapid develop-
ment of Australia’s known resources
against times of great hardship and ex-
perience. It has saved Australia from
the terrible racial riots of USA, Indo-
nesia, Ceylon, Fiji and even Britain.
J. E. MENADUE
Federal President, Australian
Natives’ Association
Melbourne ( Victoria).
THE BALI DISASTER
Sir,
I am approaching you for help in a
cause of great human urgency. It is
also. I believe, a cause which will help
win friendship for Australia. On March
17 Mount Agung, the volcano on the
Indonesian island of Bali, erupted. Some
1500 persons were killed. Many thous-
ands were severely burned. Approxi-
mately 100.000 were rendered homeless
and an estimated 200,000 lost their
means of livelihood.
Since then relief supplies from 26
countries have been sent to Bali, but the
total volume of these is still tiny in
relation to the stricken island’s needs.
The Indonesian Red Cross has now asked
the League of Red Cross Societies in
Geneva to help with medical supplies,
foodstuffs, ambulances and equipment
for a 300-bed hospital.
Our Committee is receiving the sup-
port of the Australian Red Cross Society
which has agreed to act as a channel for
donations to this appeal. Donations
should be sent to the Society (122-128
Flinders Street, Melbourne) marked
“Bali Relief Red Cross.” The Red
Cross will send receipts which entitle
donors to a tax deduction, and it will
notify this Committee of each contribu-
tion.
(PROFESSOR) ZELMAN COWEN
Chairman, Bali Relief
Committee
Melbourne (Victoria).
EXPLOITATION?
Sir,
The report by the chairman of
Amalgamated Chemicals Ltd, while
making good reading to shareholders,
will undoubtedly cause the eyebrows of
weary farmers and gardeners to rise as
they read of “an earning rate of 30.2
per cent on the capital employed”
just ten times as much as well-informed
bankers assure property owners they are
currently earning on “capital employed”
in the good earth of Australia, at one
time alleged to “laugh with a harvest
after tickling with a hoe.” Exploitation
of rural industries by an increasing
number of companies has reached a
stage demanding a full-scale enquiry by
Federal authorities. This, and not sub-
sidies of questionable value, is the remedy
for falling farm profits and the drift of
young men from the country to the city.
If the Liberal-Country Party league is to
survive as a Federal Government it will
have to give more attention to the prob-
lems of costs and the excess profits of
those living so well from the sweat of
agriculturists.
E. E. HANSEN
Minlaton (SA).
MISPRINT
Sir,
Could I draw attention to a typograph-
ical error in the poem, Those Who Have
Travelled Far, printed in your issue of
May 18. In the second verse, “cdins”
should read, “come”. If only they would.
JOHN CROYSTON
Perth (WA).
“THE BLAXLAND MYTH”
Sir,
Mr. Malcolm Ellis’ article on “The
Crossing of the Blue Mountains (The
Blaxland Myth)” (25/5/63) has been
read by me with interest. Whilst it is not
my intention to enter into argument re-
garding leadership, I would, however,
ask:
If Gregory Blaxland were not the
leader, how come it that he was the one
who approached the Governor regarding
the proposed expedition and, on return,
reported to him the result? This has
never, to my knowledge, been denied,
and would be the natural actions of any
leader, and of a leader only, as it may
be assumed most people would agree.
G. D. BLAXLAND
Past President,
Royal Australian Historical Society.
SMOG
Sir,
From time to time we hear of the
ever-growing menace of smog in large
cities and the everlasting job of testing
the air to determine the pollution level.
Could some qualified engineer amongst
your readers give any good reason why
all factories could not discharge the
smoke, gases etc., into a system of low
pressure ducting which would then be
directed along main route trunking
(either above or below ground) to a
treatment plant some miles away from the
city in question.
Any valuable by-products could be re-
covered at the treatment plant before
the gases were discharged into the at-
mosphere.
Mt Isa has used what is known as the
Bag House for a similar reason.
A. J. PEARSON
Barcaldine (NSW).


Best blend of beauty, action and thrift on the road!
The way the sleek Falcon rides the roads keeps owners
sure they are driving Australia’s No. i Road Car. The
many advantages Falcon has over its main opposition all
contribute in this better roadability. Higher powered
engines provide more effortless
performance and split-second
response. Longer wheelbase gives
a smoother ride. Lower centre
of gravity means more stability
—surer cornering. Lighter steering
eases handling. Bigger brakes give
easier, smoother, and surer stops.
TRI M,TAUT, TERRI FIC
FALCON
Australia's No. 1 Road Car!
You get up to 30 miles per gallon (Mobilgas Economy
Run figures) and go 6,000 miles between oil changes.
And, as low extra cost equipment, you can have Ford-
omatic Drive world’s most simple and trouble-free
fully automatic transmission.
Consider all this, and you have
the reasons why more and more
people are changing to Falcon.
The change is made easier, too,
by Ford Dealers’ trade-in values
and terms. The best thing to do
is to see him today !
" ••
m
’’—.w
•-V
9.
FROM ONLY
£ 065
■■••Xv4f»^
INCLUDING 22Vi°]< o GOVT
SALES TAX
F. 0.8. Fort Plants. Prices
slightly higher in
cd'untry area£T~
FX573
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.


REVIEWS
THEATRE
Images of Absurdity
Übu Roi, Alfred Jarry. The Maids,
Jean Genet. Picnic on the Battle-
field, Fernando Arrabal. The
Chairs, Eugene lonesco. Marlowe
Society. Union Theatre. Mel-
bourne.
Marlowe Society is putting on a
■*" three-week “season of the absurd.”
In a city where, in recent months, the
theatre has been given over to musicals
and light comedies which amuse the tired
but bore everyone else, this venture
deserves praise.
But the sad truth is that avant garde
plays are extremely difficult to present.
Because they are not realistic, because
many of them do not have plots or
characters in the accepted sense, they
need to be presented with great pro-
fessional skill and imaginative sympathy.
They were first produced in Paris in
tiny theatres, but by brilliant young
producers interested in the experiments
of the avant garde. The Marlowe Society
productions are simply not good
enough.
When “Übu Roi” was first presented
in Paris in 1896, Alfred Jarry hoped to
shock the bourgeois with an exaggerated
picture of their baseness. He was not
disappointed. As soon as the first word,
“merde,” was spoken, pandemonium
broke out. Curiously enough, Fere and
Mere Abu, Jarry’s gross caricatures of a
bourgeois couple, have a vitality which
makes them attractive because of the
very monstrosity of their gluttony,
rapacity, cruelty, cowardice and vulgar-
ity. But the satire is crude and the
scatology juvenile.
Claire and Solange, the two maids in
Genet’s play, are sisters. When their
mistress is out they act out a fantasy in
her bedroom. At curtain rise Claire is
impersonating Madame and Solange is
impersonating Claire. The game, which
they call “The Ceremony,” is to work
themselves up by insulting each other
to the point where the maid will strangle
the mistress. But they never reach the
climax of the ceremony because, as they
put it, they spend too long on the pre-
liminaries.
The play creates a powerful atmo-
sphere of obsession. But in Paul Eddy’s
production the tone was too unrelievedly
strident. And I suspect that these com-
plex fantasies need to be acted out in
the most luxurious Louis Quinze bed-
room that the realistic theatre can pro-
duce, instead of the bare, dreary set
that was used.
In Arrabal’s “Picnic on the Battle-
field” a mother and father arrive by
motor-bike to visit their son on the
battlefield, bringing with them a picnic
lunch. They settle down to enjoy hard-
boiled eggs, a bottle of wine, custard and
gramophone - music amid sandbags,
bombs and stretcher-bearers. An enemy
soldier stumbles up and they invite him
to join the picnic. There are no new
arguments against war in the play, but
there is a vivid image of its absurdity.
The people are so ordinary, irrational
and un-heroic that it seems absurd they
should be killed.
This play was disgracefully hammed
and “camped.” It was so distorted
that when the stretcher-bearers returned
at the end to remove the bodies of the
picnickers the audience laughed. The
same thing happened at the end of “The
Chairs” when the orator turns out to be
a deaf mute who is able to utter only
meaningless grunts.
Blame for this inappropriate audience
response must rest with the producers.
One can’t expect professional acting
from a student company, but one might
reasonably hope for respect for the text
and spirit of the play. As it was, we saw
undergraduates showing as little regard
for the dramatists as any hardened com-
mercial producer with a box full of pro-
fessional tricks and a cold eye on the
box office. The hubristic clowning of
Max Gillies as the old man in “The
Chairs” did nothing but obscure the wit
and point of lonesco’s lines. Fortunately
for enthusiasts, Melbourne has already
seen excellent productions of lonesco by
Wal Cherry and Peter O’Shaughnessy.
MADELINE ARMSTRONG
Agony in a New Orleans Garden
Garden District: Something Unspoken
and Suddenly Last Summer. Ten-
nessee Williams. Ensemble Theatre.
Sydney.
/”|f all modern playwrights, Tennessee
Williams is the one most frequently
misunderstood. Despite the influence of
the American critic Richard Watts Jr.,
who came down heavily for the view that
Williams, though a “dark” poet, is still
a poet on the side of the angels, there
remains a public image of Williams as a
fanatical painter of degeneracy.
The present production of “Suddenly
Last Summer” at the Ensemble should
provide Williams’ critics with plenty of
material. Producer Jon Ewing has done
a remarkable job in guiding 80 minutes
of acting so impassioned that it balances
on the edge of hysteria: he never lets
the players become too frenetic.
If there is a moral in “Garden Dis-
trict” (which is the combined title of
two short plays, “Something Unspoken”
and “Suddenly Last Summer”) it is
that absolute love corrupts absolutely
and that possessive love is a form of
cannibalism. Some people, Williams says,
simply consume each other—and call it
loving.
This dire theme is displayed in the
two plays in masterly fashion. Williams
was at his peak when he wrote them.
Their spare and elegant beauty and tech-
nical expertness are undeniable.
In “Something Unspoken” a fierce old
woman consumes her companion. In
“Suddenly Last Summer” another sav-
age lady destroys her son. On brief leave
from the hell she has made for him, he
is eaten by a pack of boys. His girl
witnesses it, returns with the story
and arouses in the old woman an im-
placable drive to remove the facts of her
son’s end. The play deals with the
mother’s last desperate throw: to per-
suade a young neurologist to perform a
lobotomy, cut into the girl’s brain, and
excise the memory.
The girl’s narco-synthesis-induced in-
terview with the doctor while the family
stands threateningly around gives the
play great tension. Joseph Mankiewicz’s
film (in which Elizabeth Taylor played
the girl) lessened the impact by actually
showing the boy attacked and eaten alive.
Ewing also erred —probably because of
the peculiar demands of arena staging.
To have the girl immobile in a chair,
with a solitary intense spot on her, is
plainly unfair to three-quarters of the
arena audience. Thus, Ewing was forced
to have her move violently about. Added
to the far-out playing of the mother—


llllliii
II
- xi
lllillllll
mi
m
Hi
m
.;XX'-
m
m
SSfiSSi
.
X'l.
hhb
m
X'X
II
Hi
m
m
;SS«Si;:SS:
x;: x; : :
x.:
SsS*
Xxx:
II
XXX
ii
8888
mm
. X-'
Il:l
ilplll
SSSSs
S : :: : '
Ii
xx
• x; -x-.;.
mm
wmm
m&imm wssssg
Hi
illlllHl!
HHRH
HlilllHl
XXXxXXXXXXX::::
Iliiilil
xxXX;X;X: : :X::x : ;
■
•iixixi
v ‘ .- - C->
XX:XXX:KXXXSXXX::::::: : :::;X
JiSiig
&sssf
SXX;
::: ::: X .
■ ■
'/
Mm
m
XX
aiMK <»x
xx
XXXxXX X:
95 - “
si
.... ¥ -
shows
the way !
After almost 100 years of service to the country, the Australian owned G. E. Crane Group has
had a wealth of experience in the following treatments of aluminium, brass and copper.
CASTING • ROLLING • FORGING • EXTRUDING • IMPACT EXTRUDING • DIE
CASTING • MACHINING • DRAWING • POLISHING • GRINDING • PLATING •
PRINTING • COATING. . r , . x , x 4U . . . .
To their customers of aluminium, brass and copper in a semi-fabricated form, the technical
knowledge gained from this background is freely available.
Join the existing G. E. Crane Group customers who are already taking advantage of these
facilities as well as Crane’s reliable service.
081
CRANE
GROUP
ALUMINIUM • BRASS • COPPER
CP3I


I Hate Salesmen!
8.L.: Why?
J. 8.: Oh, you know—the foot in the
door aspect—l don’t know how
you stand it.
8.L.: I’m not really a salesman—not in
the ordinary sense anyway. Selling
a computer system takes years—
I’m simply the originator and co-
ordinator of the idea.
J. 8.: Like a consultant?
8.L.: In a way—yes.
J. 8.: Surely you're expected to produce
results?
8.L.: Certainly—but the Data Process-
ing market is so soundly based
that most of our business finds
us with really hard work and
talent you must succeed.
J. 8.: And if you don’t have the talent?
8.L.: The selection standards are so high
and the training (18 months initial-
ly) so thorough that by the time
you enter the field, the Company
rightly places complete confidence
in you—that’s why the job is so
independent—l run my own team
and run it my own way.
J. 8.: How did you get the job in the
first place?
8.L.: Purely by chance—l talked to one
of our representatives and he in-
terested me in it—at the time I
was a pretty highly paid account-
ant not the faintest idea of
changing jobs.
J. 8.: Why did you?
8.L.: The chance for real security for
the family in a short time I
earned £4OOO last year—the top
men earn a good deal more.
J. 8.: Have you ever regretted the
change?
8.L.: For the first few weeks of train-
ing I had my doubts —I’ve never
been worked so hard in my life—
then the meaning of the job caught
on and I started to be enthusiastic
about what I had done—and what
I was doing.
J. 8.: (Jokingly) If I knew anything about
computers I’d apply for the job
myself.
8.L.: Why not?
J. 8.: I’m an engineer—not a salesman.
8.L.: Our representatives are a mixed
bunch—all kinds of training—all
they have in common is intelligence
and personality—mainly the first.
J. 8.: I can't change jobs at my age.
8.L.: 25 to 30 is the ideal age—besides
you've proved you can succeed in
a responsible position so they
might be interested in you.
J. 8.: Still I’d want to know an awful
lot about your Company before I
changed it.
8.L.: That’s what the personnel depart-
ment is for—they can answer any
of your questions and give you
some idea if you could do the job.
J. 8.: Can I find out this sort of thing
without being high-pressured?
8.L.: Of course . . .
If your thinking parallels J.B.’s, we request
the opportunity to put before you the facts
of the vital Data Processing Representative’s
job. Whatever your present occupation, you
should know these facts.
Enquiries from Sydney and Melbourne can be
addressed in strictest confidence to:
THE DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL
A ustralia Tty. Limited
Box 3318, G.P.0., Sydney
who was dressed and acted as a grotesque
-—this has damaged the play.
For all its faults, this is still an im-
portant production. The acting in both
plays by Miss Clarissa Kaye and Miss
Robin Lawlor is among the best we have
seen this year.
KEVON KEMP
TELEVISION
The Blues in Blackface
Four for the Show. Channel 2.
The Critics. Channel 2.
T ast Thursday night seemed an ideal
time to look in on The Critics, who
were in Adelaide for a change. They in-
cluded Kylie Tennant and Roland Robin-
son, and were to appear before an audi-
ence of “writers, beginners and would-be
writers” as one panel member put it.
To catch the act I had a choice of
half of this or half of that on the other
channels, so I watched ABN’s “Four For
The Show”, reviewed here when it be-
gan some weeks ago. Time did not seem
to have improved it. Francesca Crespi's
sets are still imaginative, but the audio
levels were adrift and the lighting suited
Helen Lorain but not blonde Judy Banks,
who sang her one solo in silhouette and
with so much light that she was almost
invisible at times.
Helen Lorain had replaced Shirley
Sunners, and, although Miss L. normally
looks and sounds very professional, this
just wasn’t one of her nights. Even when
the show promised to click, around finale
time, with some growling blues, Miss
Lorain gave her “St Louis” solo a linger-
ing broad Australian “daown” which just
made it sound silly.
In fact, lately I seem to have suffered
a spate of negro songs, which only
negroes can sing well, delivered by
everyone from Bobby Limb to John
Laws, who reclined and muttered about
“all my Harlem coquettes” with his
usual air of painful self-consciousness.
Now that Startime is to “rest,” as they
say in the trade, perhaps someone will
consider Laws as an actor. It could be
his line.
Similarly, I’m sure Miss Tennant is
a good writer, Roland Robinson a poet,
and Laurie Thomas a fine art gallery
director, but as The Critics their sole
virtue was less argument than usual.
In last Thursday’s version, Max
Harris described Roland Robinson as
a Wild Colonial Boy, Miss Tennant
called him “Roly,” and he declared that
poetry had been killed by the printing
press. It should be spoken, he said. But
facing 100,000 viewers he failed to
prove his point by speaking some.
Instead he remarked that poetry is 99
per cent perspiration and 1 per cent
inspiration, which is neither a new
thought nor particularly correct, even
if it does rhyme.
The panel then tried to discuss some
films, but did no better there. Of an
animated film made in Adelaide, Mr
Thomas said it was inventive and a little
masterpiece; Miss Tennant said it was
clever but “too damn clever,” and that
sort of thing had been done in the ’2os
anyway. To me it merely seemed a pity
that any man should have wasted so
much time, as the maker obviously had,
for so little.
The best part of The Critics from
Adelaide was almost subliminal. It was
a sketch shown for about one second at
the close of the show, with the same
universal quality as the one which has
advertised Hutton’s bacon for a half
century or so. Real folk art, like. At
least, in that second, I can say that at
last I’ve gained something from watch-
ing the show.
FRANK ROBERTS
FILMS
Craftsman
or Artist?
The Miracle Worker. Palace Theatre.
Sydney.
play of “The Miracle Worker”,
staged in Sydney late last year, had
a strong central dramatic situation in the
story of the mute Helen Keller and her
awakening to the world around her
through the perseverance of her Irish
teacher, Annie Sullivan. In the play
everything degenerated into mushy senti-
ment. The writing was “cute,” “heart-
warming,” and burdened with an un-
necessary sub-plot about a weak-but-in-
telligent son and a domineering father.
Since William Gibson is credited with
the motion-picture script as well as the
play, the fact that the film is better is
probably due to the director, Arthur
Penn. The excess sub-plot has been re-
worked into the central situation, and
the film is moving and unsentimental.
The struggle of Annie Sullivan to teach
a girl who understands little more than
an animal is shown sensitively and
intelligently.
Acting is excellent, particularly Patty
Duke as Helen and Anne Bancroft as
Annie (a deserved Academy Award).
The camerawork and editing are con-
sistently accomplished: there is no hint
of the stage. Arthur Penn’s career (he


has already directed an off-beat Western,
“The Left-Handed Gun”) promises to be
worth following. He is a most striking
craftsman whether he is an artist is
not yet clear.
BRUCE BERESFORD
ART
Music into Paint
Leonard Crawford. Argus Gallery.
Melbourne.
/Considering his comparatively modest
success over the past decade, Leonard
Crawford is lucky to have had what
amounts almost to a retrospective
exhibition compiled in his absence. Of
the 40-odd paintings, nearly half are on
loan, and they cover altogether a period
of seven years.
Crawford is an engaging painter, not
especially powerful, but elegant, precise
and very sure of his effects. In terms of
style he must be placed among the
analytic, hard-edged abstractionists (this
at least is the mould in which he shapes
his ideas) but it is a somewhat rococo
brand of the style and gives a disciplined
outlet to his clear, warm imagination.
Despite his highly formalised, per-
fectionist approach to painting, which
lends itself easily to pure abstraction, a
good deal of his work is in fact image
painting. There are several landscapes,
a number of decorative, fantastic pieces
(phoenixes, pierrots and the like) and of
course his very well-known evocations
of musical themes. For my part, I still
find his musical essays the most absorb-
ing examples of his work. These elabor-
ate pattern of colors and weaving planes
with an occasional gay wandering line
are ordered with immense assurance.
Admittedly the graphic representation of
music has fallen into a tight convention,
which Crawford too works in.
Those hair-raising affairs known as
“experimental” films insist on music
being represented by frenetic geometric
figures: blue for Bach, red for Rossini
and the whole palette for Gerry Mulli-
gan. But Crawford has a remarkably
perceptive visual imagination which
succeeds in transferring to paint with the
ring of truth the sort of thoughts and
emotions aroused by music.
Unfortunately this exhibition includes
few very recent works. “Painting ’62”
is the most radical departure a severe,
linear figure which resembles steel
sculpture both in color, texture and
shape. It would be rash to say from
just one sample and not a striking
one at that which direction Crawford
was taking now. The value of this
exhibition lies largely in the past.
BILL HANNAN
Feiffer
If) HAT
ft IT
MR-
PAPP?
A w m the em id
THE EAtEPT LAP MERE
FOOLING mw Me PULP
TR4 IT/ \
\TO Tod.
PARK, MR-
PAPP. LOOM
OMINOUS.
WHAT ft IT?
om M MOOT E/CIW6
MEM IV EAKIVO MTOffl
Mt PM'TfcTZ IT! '
mm! m
mucim!
TAN6Y!
fuvorW
mts it
aiiev, M&-'.
PAPP?
\l'6 A FORMULA ME IJC6MEO
FROM A(0 OIP UKR AIUIAO
LAW MR. PULP. 6H6
CALLS IT "BREAD.”
mmme
compete, mr. papm m
LEE THE SAME NAME FOR
au Emm oiFFmtir
PMOVCT. MIGHT 60 OVER,
m mu TWO GOURMET
MARKET. /
\7'o A LITTLE 700
cmm fop Rm
mkv..m- w,
but m mo no
7 7WE MB ME
mmo ro
uemti
17 UP
MO
SMOOTH
[TOUT.
v'twouce tit 6i%
ir a m uamp amp
mm m colop it
MI6HT 60 o%p 016. COT
AMTHIU6 TO H)ASJj £
vm m, Me- papp ?
"M W Me flip.
SOMETHIN MW
rue me iu rue
FLAVOR LAB
uAJE FtßM>
?mM6
A RoUMO
m 6mv.
rmvi f lavcr-
mi mmcp
mz ummti
mpcpm papp?
W. THIS (MS
CMLSO soup:
JjM


THE RED PAGE
Slave Camp Novelist
The two versions
By EUGENE KAMENKA
One Day in the Life of Ivan Deniso-
vich. Alexander Solzhenitsyn.
Translated by Max Hayward and
Ronald Hingley. Praeger.
One Day in the Life of Ivan Deniso-
vich. Alexander Solzhenitsyn.
Translated by Ralph Parker. Gol-
lancz. 225. 6d.
17'or a quarter of a century, the vast
concentration camp system created
by Stalin was a vital but submerged part
of the consciousness of every Soviet
citizen. There was hardly a Soviet family
that did not have a father, brother, cousin
or son in such a camp. Many families had
someone who had died there.
Alexander Solzhenitsyn, now 44 years
old, was serving as a captain in the Red
Army in February, 1945, when he was
suddenly arrested for making remarks
derogatory to Stalin and sentenced to
eight years’ detention. Subsequently, he
was sent to one of the “special” camps
and held there until 1956. Then he was
released and soon after “rehabilitated.”
He now teaches mathematics and physics
in a Soviet High School in Ryazan.
His first novel, “One Day in the Life
of Ivan Denisovich”, published in Russia
in November last year, goes carefully
into all aspects of all matters connected
with the camps and it obviously tells the
truth.
Tvan Denisovich Shukhov, the hero of
Solzhenitsyn’s novel, is no dissident
Communist Party intellectual, no bureau-
crat fallen out of favor, no stubborn
supporter of nationalism, religion or
other errors of the past. He is a simple
village carpenter, poorly educated, of
poor peasant stock; the sort of man in
whose name the Russian Revolution took
place. Before the war, he was an obedient
member of the kolkhoz, during the war
an obedient and devoted private. In
1942, while serving on the north-western
front, he was taken prisoner by the Ger-
mans and put in a temporary POW cage.
With five others he escaped, but only two
of them managed to reach the Russian
lines. There, they made a serious mis-
take. Instead of saying they had got
lost in the woods, they said they had
escaped from the Germans. They were
arrested immediately; Shukhov was ac-
cused of being a German agent. Shu-
khov remembers:
It’s true he gave evidence against
himself and said he’d surrendered
to the enemy with the intention of
betraying his country, and came
back with instructions from the
Germans. But just what he was
supposed to do for the Germans
neither Shukhov nor the interrogator
could say. So they just left it at
that and put down: “On instructions
from the Germans.” The way
Shukhov figured it was very simple.
If he didn’t sign, he was as good as
buried. But if he did, he’d still go
on living for a while. So he
signed.
Shukhov got ten years; he is, at the
time of the novel, a day in January,
1951, concluding his eighth year in a
“special” (i.e. specially rigorous) camp
in northern Kazakhstan. Each of the
work teams, he notices, contains five
convicted spies one, a Moldavian, is
a curiosity: the Moldavian really was a
spy. For the rest, there are men such as
Captain Buynovsky, a naval commander:
“After the war some British admiral
who should’ve had more sense sent
me a little souvenir (of their war-time
convoy meeting) with an inscription that
said: “In gratitude.” I was really shocked
and I cursed like hell, so now I’m inside
with all the others.” There is the boy,
Gopchik, who had been arrested for
taking milk to Ukrainian partisans in the
wood, and given the same sentence a
grown-up got; there is Alyoshka, one of
the Baptists “The poor fellows,”
Shukhov thinks. “All they did was pray to
God. And were they in anybody’s way?
They all got 25 years, because that is
how it was now. But, at the centre, stands
Shukhov himself, important precisely be-
cause he has no unusual beliefs, no un-
usual connections, no importance of
background or work. Ivan Denisovich
Shukhov is the Soviet Everyman, against
whom Stalin waged war.
forced labor camps of Stalin’s
regime emerged from Solzhenitsyn’s
description precisely as anti-Communist
emigres have always described them. We
find all the senseless brutality, the self-
defeating deprivation, the deliberate
degradation and petty sadism of the Nazi
camps: we do not find constant physical
torture and ideological sadism as sus-
tained and deliberate policy. There is the
disciplinary officer, Lieutenant Volkovoy,
“The Wolf,” who used to walk around
with a whip, but has stopped doing it
lately; the “trustee,” Clubfoot, who
slashes the men back with a birch rod;
there is the Thin Tartar, looking for an
excuse to impose solitary confinement.
But there are no SS squads, no whipping
blocks, no gas chambers.
The real hardship is the climate, the
fantastic shortage of rations kept still
shorter by graft and rake-offs all along
the line, the lack of fuel, the constant
stripping, searching, marching and wait-
ing. If you fall out of line, there are no
whippings as in the Nazi camps; there is
just the punishment cell.
If you had ten days in the cells
here, and sat them out to the end,
it meant you’d be a wreck for the
rest of your life. . . . And the fel-
lows who did fifteen days were dead
and buried.
Oolzhenitsyn shows us one day in the
life of Ivan Denisovich Shukhov —one
day is enough, because for Ivan Deniso-
vich Shukhov one day is like all the other
days, all three thousand six hundred and
fifty-three of them. He was allowed to
write two letters a month and he re-
ceived no food parcels because he had
asked to be sent none; they cost too
much to send and too little finally
reached his hands. But through Ivan Den-
isovich Shukhov we see more than a
forced labor camp in North Kazakhstan;
we see a vast cross-section of Soviet so-
ciety outside the camp which is amaz-
ingly like Soviet society inside the camp,
based on material squalor and the need
to look out for yourself. The real differ-
ence is that in camp one can talk more
freely.
Take these conversations about
Stalin’s great film director, Sergei
Eisenstein:
“You’re wrong, pal,” Caesar was
saying. . . . “One must say in all
objectivity that Eisenstein is a genius.
Now isn’t Ivan the Terrible a work
of genius? . . .”
“All show-off!” K-123 snapped.
. . . “Too much art is no art at all.
Like candy instead of bread! And
the politics of it is utterly vile
vindication of a one-man tyranny.
An insult to the memory of three
generations of Russian intellectuals
“But what other treatment of the
subject would have been let
through?”
“Ha! Let through, you say?
Then don’t call him a genius! Call
him a toady, say he carried out
orders like a dog. A genius


RELAX WITH STAMPS
"n
MONACO
50!
MU
After each busy day attending to the cares
of office as President of the United States,
franklin Delano Roosevelt at night relaxed for
an hour or two with his stamp collection.
Lily Pons, J. Edgar Hoover, Dag Hammarsk-
jold, Jerome Kern, Lauritz Melchior, Clifford
Odets, Yul Brynner, Cardinal Spellman, King
George V, Ellery Queen and Ezio Pinza are
but a few of the world's personalities who
have found in stamp collecting fun, pleasure
and relaxation from a busy life or cares of
office.
Throughout the world, millions of men and
women, of all ages and all occupations, have
found that stamp collecting quickly calms
lumpy nerves, dispels those clouds of gloom
and opens new doors to happiness.
You ; too, can find pleasure, profit and relaxa-
tion in the delightful, stimulating world of
stamp collecting.
FREE! To genuine adult enquirers who would
like to know more about this wonderful hobby
we offer entirely free an attractive 20-page
illustrated booklet entitled “STAMP COLLECT-
ING CAN BE FUN." This booklet explains WHY
stamp collecting has brought so much pleasure
to so many million people, and tells how you
can set about starting a collection. For your
FREE copy of "STAMP COLLECTING CAN BE
FUN" |ust drop a note to—
dept, btn
SEVEN SEAS STAMPS
Pty. Ltd.
STERLING STREET, DUBBO, N.S.W.
P S. This offer applies only to people residing
in Australia.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented Ore Con-
centrator has proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient, simple and
inexpensive to operate. Send for
illustrated Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
“Everlasting-" Boiler Blow off Valves, Rapid
Magnetising Machines, George Ellison
Switch Gear, Blasting Mats, Explosives,
Log Splitting Guns, etc. Makers of Classi-
fiers, Water Filters, Steam Valves, etc.
doesn’t adapt his treatment to the
taste of tyrants!”
“Ane Day in the Life of Ivan Deni-
sovich appeared in the November,
1962, issue of the leading Soviet literary
journal Novy Mir after approval of the
novel, it is said, had been granted by
Khrushchev himself. The 95,000 copies
were sold out almost immediately; the
enthusiasm from the Soviet public was
immense. The English translation by
Ralph Parker was first put out by the
Soviet publication, The Moscow Evening
News, in serial form; although Gollancz
don’t say so, it is an authorised transla-
tion. The American translation, pub-
lished by Praeger, is not authorised;
royalties from the American edition
are being donated to the International
Rescue Committee for the relief of those
who fought and suffered in the defence
of freedom. Neither translation, so far
as I notice in comparing with the Rus-
sian text, is in any way unfaithful to the
original, but the (American) translation
at r, H T gley - T ,o be
published in England as well, seemed
me a ar better translation. It is worth
going to extra trouble to get it.
“One Day in the Life of Ivan Deniso-
vich” is not a great novel, or a literary
masterpiece, as both publishers claim,
It is a good novel of the second, almost
popular, rank; its significance, unlike that
of “Doctor Zhivago,” rests entirely on
the political climate it portrays, and the
new political climate it helps to create.
Men like the Soviet mathematician Yese-
nin-Volpin and the novelist Valeriy Tar-
sis, who have smuggled much more dar-
ing manuscripts to the : West, sit in the
lunatic asylums that Khrushchev has be-
gan to substitute for forced labor camps,
Solzhenitsyn is a licensed liberal, but
patently a sincere and honest one. His
novel has Khrushchev’s blessing; his
later short stories are already being at-
tacked by Soviet conservatives. The novel
represents the peak of Soviet liberalism
in 1962; the attacks may herald the re-
action of 1963.
All About Us
A Nation of Trees. Rosemary Milling-
ton. Hutchinson.
tPHis book is subtitled Australian Rites;
it was admiringly welcomed to London
by Mr John Pringle, former editor of
“The Sydney Morning Herald”; the pub-
lishers claim it to be “a brilliantly per-
sonal view of Australia”.
You bloody go alone and bloody grow
up and bloody face what’s coming to you
like a bloody man: Miss Millington has
what can pass in London as an ear for
Australian dialogue.
This is Australia, the present is reality.
I have no past, no future, I am the pre-
sent; it must be dream-time. It is the fifth
day of creation. Kinetic heat and light
explode from the sun, consuming, boring
to the brink of shadows in their thirsty
velocity till every drop of water has seep-
ed out of life and dry bones, stones and
stumps become obsessed, possessed by the
transcendental sun swinging in the blaz-
ing heavens: Miss Millington has meta-
physics.
Judy holds out a plastic effigy, disguised
in rags and frills, trustfully. I would say
that a flower is pretty. The soil is beauti-
ful, but a plastic doll . . .” This is a pretty
doll, isn’t it? So pretty. Pretty.” Of that!
/ am an outsider: Miss Miffington has
standards.
Her standards are the one thing con-
sistent in her book and her standards
reduce everything she describes, from
near-seduction to near-murder, to the
same anticlimactic level. Piously she
sneers at the locals: Each one contribut-
ing his cliche in righteousness, and with-
holding everything of himself. But con-
sistently she clings to her own cliches!
Of course these people surround them-
selves with possessions and live as much
as possible as if they were in the suburbs;
it brings the desert down to their level, in
illusion.
Character and incident, scene and set-
ting—things that a Langley might with
love make real or a White make art —are
here reduced to litterateur’s ersatz.
Miss Millington is a litterateur; she
gives us her the-world-is-different-from-
Wordsworth prose-poems to prove it and,
occasionally, she describes her crises of
copy-writing in Melbourne or of gover-
nessing or of cooking or of prospecting
in the north. But the descriptions of
action never work, never move; they are
trapped in her moralising, in her attempts
to intellectualise their causes or their
consequences, in her preoccupation (like
a copy-writer) with selling her product—
herself.
There are no secrets in the bush, and
nothing is sacred. Coyly she proves that
she is telling all by detailing vomit and
bowel movement, picnic-race orgy and
nude bathing in the creek. With deter-
mined tolerance she writes down what
her Australian specimens do as she keeps
herself to herself and her hands where
they belong; and Miss Millington's self,
that personality which should have held
the book together, given its sequences
meaning (as Eve Langley gave meaning
to The Pea Pickers), neither grows nor
knows. Caricature Scottish and caricature
English combined, that is how she begins
her “voyage of discovery” and that is
how she ends it. / came back, didn’t l?
What more should l say?
RAY MATHEW


~toogoc<CtF
&&
'hct'md
gtOMfcU
fyumofe?
■ Your employer promotes men he knows
can meet demands beyond job knowledge.
He looks to you to make decisions and
take action without running to your
superiors. He must know you can express
ideas clearly. He must be sure others
work willingly with you. He wants proof
you have real interest in the business and
understand your part in it.
These qualities are based on abilities
you already have but may not be using.
Your employer has little time to pry them
out of you. You must bring them to prac-
tical life—or risk being judged capable,
but not promotable.
We have spent 51 years guiding people
out of this dilemma. We have shown more
than 1,000,000 men and women that they
can speak effectively, inspire confidence
and enthusiasm, and clear-headedly handle
responsibility.
Dale Carnegie training can free you of
self-doubts that hold you back today. The
sooner you act, the earlier you will find
your present situation an area of oppor-
tunity.
L 176
I
DALE CARNEGIE
DALE CARNEGIE
COURSES
90 Bank House, Bank PI., Melb.
90 Barrack Hse., 16 Barrack St., Syd.
and all other Capital Cities
Sponsor in A/sia:
Hemingway Robertson P/I.
The Revolution Betrayed
From an Indonesian Gaol
Twilight in Djakarta. Mochtar Lubis.
Hutchinson.
]Y/|ochtar Lubis is a youngish Indo-
nesian journalist one of a num-
ber of talent, courage and political
independence thrown up after the civil
war who was gaoled in 1956 when
editor of “Indonesia Raya,” released a
year later for one month, and then
gaoled again. He is still in gaol and
has never been brought to trial at any
time. He serves as a salutary reminder
to those currently raising their voices in
Australia for greater understanding of
Indonesia that his imprisonment and that
of hundreds of others however com-
fortable by the standards of the Third
Reich is also part of the business of
understanding. Indonesia is not a free
country, and sympathy for the multi-
tudinous national problems created by
mismanagement, lack of technical skills
and the warring political interests of
disillusioned revolutionaries should not
blind us to the fact.
“Twilight in Djakarta” has been pub-
lished by Hutchinson’s in collaboration
with the Congress of Cultural Freedom
as the first of a series New Voices in
Translation which will introduce un-
known African, Asian and European
minority language writers. Presumably,
as in this instance, the writers will be
mainly those who have been gaoled or
muzzled for political views and activities.
It is a worthy aim and one can only hope
that others in the series will be better
writers than Lubis, who is quite des-
perately bad and poorly translated.
The theme of the book is a very good
one for anybody with knowledge of or
interest in the Republic; the struggle
against that consuming corruption which
systematically sabotages the heart and
mind of all Indonesian effort, paralyses
the national will and energy the army
officers w'ith their Mercedes Benz and
whisky, the politicians who fix things in
return for favors, the under-paid civil
servants who forge documents to get
on a housing list, and so on. But Lubis
simply cannot bring it off any more than
he can look at the other side of the
picture, at the daily enormities of Indo-
nesian life, at the tremendous efforts
which fail, and see them, together with
corruption, as making up a whole. He
can only see the betrayed revolution
which is, perhaps, no great discovery
although it could be moving if he could
write.
P.D.H.
Marshall Plan
An Experiment in Education. Sybil
Marshall. C.U.P.
Tt’s all very necessary, no doubt. Schools
are controlled by time tables, loud-
speakers, syllabuses, examinations, in-
spectors, seminars and all the devices
that telephones, motorcars, office mach-
ines and the rest make possible. But
hardly anyone by now remembers that it
has nothing to do with the job of open-
ing up to children the life of the spirit.
Mrs Marshall’s experiment consisted
of shrugging off all such “short-sighted
idiocy” and substituting creative activity.
But she is no apostle of “free ex-
pression” —on the contrary her stand-
ards are unusually rigorous, which is
surely the secret of her success and
she did not attempt any sort of voguish
“integration.”
Mrs Marshall’s results in Art and
English make spectacular reading, and
anyone concerned with teaching or
bringing up children should get this book.
BILL HANNAN
Red Ulcers
The Red Executive. David Granick.
Anchor.
|Ane result of Stalin’s death was to
” return Red executives to the day
shift. Since Stalin’s first coffee break
was at midnight, executives throughout
Russia were used to getting phone calls
of complaint from the Kremlin up until
dawn. Stalin then went to bed.
Since then life has been to that extent
less ulcerous for the Red executive.
Granick’s book gives a total picture
of his way of life. He comes
from a white-collar family. He usually
has a degree in engineering He has
worked his way up, joining the Com-
munist Party out of careerism. He lives
well by Russian standards that is,
about as well as an American worker.
Anyone who still imagines that Soviet
managers will one day stage a “managerial
’revolution” and overthrow the Com-
munist Party and the secret police should
read this book: it shows that the mana-
gers not only have the same outlook as
Communist Party officials; they are the
same people at different stages of their
careers.


The Literary Battle of Corfu
The Formentor Prizes, 1963
By MELVIN J. LASKY
Tf men of letters could command at
A their writing tables a fraction
of the drama, eloquence, intrigue
and sheer high comic spirits which
mark their public performances at
international literary conferences, the
world would be richer by at least a
thousand masterpieces. Certainly this
year's sessions for the two Formentor
prizes offered by thirteen European
and American publishers, accompani-
ed by fifty critics serving as jurymen
were as complicated as a book by
Vladimir Nabokov, as mysterious as
a page in untranslatable argot by
Gadda, almost as sinister as a message
from behind barbed wire by Solz-
henitsyn.
General Franco rendered the Prize
homeless this year by taking official
offence at a book of Spanish resistance
songs published by Einaudi in Milan.
In a touching act of solidarity nobody
wanted to return to Cape Formentor.
Instead, the Formentor jury went
into magnificent exile in the Adriatic,
where shipwrecked Ulysses was once
washed ashore and the last German
Kaiser had a splendid summer palace.
The election of this year's chairman
hardly hastened the transition from
politics to literature. The French pro-
posed, with a touch of Gaullist self-
confidence, their “grand old man”,
Jean Paulhan; whereupon the vote
promptly went to the British candidate.
And for a whole week Miss Iris Mur-
dock triumphantly demonstrated the
European importance of the virtues of
an Oxford don and very English
headmistress.
Nor was the award of the Inter-
national Publishers’ Prize to the
Spanish-French writer, Jorge Sem-
prun, for a first novel called “Le
Grande Voyage” without melodramatic
complications. Some of the Germans
appeared to be frightened of yet an-
other book about Nazi concentration
camps. And the Spaniards would
they be able to get away with the
book’s unorthodox ideology. But pub-
lishers’ doubts gave way to political
slogans. It was, for a morning, the
Spanish Civil War and the crusade
against Hitler all over again.
Then, when a mysterious telegram
arrived from Paris allegedly from
Don Salvador de Madariaga warn-
ing against the author as a Stalinist
pawn, the ranks were closed in a pas-
sionate outburst against “outside poli-
tical interference”. The Germans
themselves broke the deadlock by vot-
ing, with their characteristic ambiva-
lence, in favor of what they had at
first found so objectionable.
But who sent the telegram? When
the indignation had subsided it was
learned that Don Salvador had not
been in Paris, had never heard of
Semprun, and had never dispatched
any kind of telegram! Was it a hoax
from the Fascist Right, in a blunder-
ing attempt to discredit Semprun—
or was it a ruse from the Communist
Left, in a clever trick to discredit
Spain’s leading democrat-in-exile?
"ITor the big prize, the grand Formen-
tor prize previously given to
Samuel Beckett, Jorge Luis Borges,
and Uwe Johnson there was a fine
day-and-night scramble marked by
bursts of German modesty, French
rhetoric, and English diffidence. John-
son, last year’s German prize-winner,
was sitting with the German jury and
not very many words were wasted
on his contemporaries. Michel Butor
confessed in rolling sentences that the
French literary scene was “so rich” in
remarkable literary talent that this year
the French would support a foreign
candidate. The generous note of cos-
mopolitanism was infectious. An
American supported a Greek novelist
(Prevakalis). The Germans supported
the Hungarian, Tibor Dery. A Swede
supported a Finn (Veijo Meri). A
British critic spoke on behalf of the
Japanese novelists, Mishima and Tani-
zaki. A Spaniard came out strongly in
favor of the British writer, Richard
Hughes.
It was rather wonderful to behold:
even after the preliminaries were over,
the enlightened tone continued to
obtain. The Anglo-Americans, after
effectively ignoring such foreign en-
thusiasm as there was for their own
native sons (John Updike, Richard
Hughes, J. D. Salinger, William Gold-
ing), combined forces on behalf of
the polyglot Vladimir Nabokov, the
comet of “Pale Fire”, the displaced
person of world letters.
Alas, we were reckoning without
our Italian colleagues. The jury man-
oeuvred as a man —on behalf of
Carlo Emilio Gadda, a 70-year old
compatriot, whose works may indeed
have “a universal profundity” but who
has been previously pronounced to
be an “untranslatable genius”. The
magniloquent campaign was led by
Alberto Moravia who (as one report-
er remarked) “strode like A 1 Capone
among the shrinking delegates . . ”
Almost like an organised Mafia, they
went to work on Nabokov. He was
a decadent, a juggler, a comedian. He
was too clever, too playful, too ele-
gant. And so they rallied to their
cause the Spaniards and the Germans,
none of whom had read very much,
if anything, of Nabokov.
They were faced with the adamance
of the French and the Anglo-Ameri-
cans, none of whom had read very
much, if anything, of Gadda. The
Scandinavian jurymen held the bal-
ance; and on the fifth ballot, in an
atmosphere which had the tension of
a Sunday afternoon bullfight, they
shifted their vote, for reasons as
obscure as they were decisive, to
Gadda. The Italians rose from their
seats and cheered and shouted. Every-
body else silently, embarrassedly,
promised themselves to look into
these inscrutable masterpieces, “The
Awful Events in the Via Merulano”
and “The Knowledge of Sadness”.
Gadda, a modest and retiring man,
had said: “If I win the prize, I am
ruined.”
The week was now almost all over
when Uwe Johnson rose to accept his
handsome cheque for last year's prize.
He was thankful, of course, but he
brusquely declined to go on as a jury-
man. He had suffered through a week
of “luxurious expensiveness” and
could not help being “alienated' 5 . He
made a bitter final speech, wept a tear
in the interests of “contemporary
literature”, and stalked off, broodinglv
unhappy, his elegant black-leather
jacket flashing in the television lights


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Another “1080” Poison Scare
/”|ne of the many poisons to hit the
headlines during the Dr Bogle-Mrs
Chandler inquest is in the news again
in Victoria. It is the deadly rabbit killer
known simply as “1080”.
A pinch of this fine white powder
(scientifically sodium fluoroacetate) is
enough to kill a man. It is odorless,
colorless when dissolved in water, and
there is no known effective antidote.
Developed as a powerful rat exter-
minator during World War 11, “1080”
came into prominence as a rabbit poison
in Victoria about 12 years ago. Spread
on diced carrot and oats baits and, of
recent years, scattered from low-flying
aircraft, it has killed millions of Victorian
rabbits. It achieved near 100 p.c. kills in
many areas, a better tally than waning
myxomatosis.
In the last decade “1080” baits, their
preparation carefully regulated by the
Victorian Lands Department, have been
spread over millions of acres of the State.
/Considering the amount of bait spread,
the area covered and the use of air-
craft, the impact on wild and domestic
animals and birds—other than rabbits —
has been microscopic. In some areas kan-
garoos and wallabies have suffered a little
and in the early days, before scientists
discovered that bait dyed green discour-
aged birds, there was some fairly small
mortality among native birds.
Biggest sufferers have been foxes
the plague of sheepmen and native birds
alike. Occasionally a farmer has lost a
dog or two when he has taken them
unmuzzled into a freshly-poisoned area,
and there have been isolated cases of
stock-poisoning where animals have been
let graze too soon on a baited area.
Nearly all these cases have been solely
attributable to human folly.
In spite of these facts and the undoubt-
ed efficacy of “1080’’, each mass poison-
ing drive has been accompanied by a
fresh flare-up of protests. These nearly
always are based on the assumption that
because “1080” kills millions of rabbits
it must, ipso facto, kill millions of birds
and native creatures.
Last year the Victorian Lands Depart-
ment launched its most ambitious “1080”
poisoning drive on a property-by-property
basis throughout the wide Victorian
Mallee country.
It was tremendously successful, thanks
to the drive of the young scientist who
organised and directed the operation, but
it won the bitter enmity of a handful of
landholders, rabbit trappers and their
friends.
Seven months after the campaign this
enmity has flared up afresh about the
dangers of “1080”, which, it is claimed,
has brought a “horrible death” to hun-
dreds of native birds and animals, cattle,
and a stock pony.
Local politicians, taking the exaggerat-
ed claims as true, jumped on the band-
wagon and Victoria has launched yet
another of its multitudinous inquiries.
Everyone connected with the “1080”
poisoning has a fair idea of what will
come out. some animals and birds have
been killed this cannot be avoided in
any large-scale poisoning campaign
(The fact that these deaths are minimal
is indicated by invitations from the
National Parks Authority of Victoria and
similar bodies for Lands Department
“1080” experts to scourge the rabbits
from national parks and game sanc-
tuaries.)
Probably even this limited number of
accidental deaths would not have occur-
red but for the dry conditions prevailing
in the Mallee at the time of poisoning.
This permitted the carrot baits to lie
much longer than usual without decom-
posing. They merely dehydrated and
when rain freshened them became as
potent as ever.
This is a problem already under study
by Lands Department scientists. They
are tackling it in several ways. They
are seeking a bait which may decompose
more rapidly than carrot and they are
also seeking a way of treating carrot to
make it rot more quickly.
This latest scare has led to a public
impression that “1080” is dangerous and
is about to be abandoned. This is most
unlikely. With rabbits gaining increased
resistance to myxomatosis, the Australian
pastoral industries could not do without
an efficient and cheap rabbit poison . . .
and, at least for the present, there is
no poison in sight that is as cheap, effici-
ent and safe as the much-maligned
“1080.”
What Will Wool Levy Be?
A ustralian woolgrowers will know the
worst on June 20. That is the day
when the 50 members of the Australian
Wool Industry Conference will consider
the recommendation of the new Austra-
lian Wool Board for an increased wool
levy.
The Conference virtually a “parlia-
ment” of the wool industry is not
likely to relish the words of the Board's
chairman, Sir William Gunn.
Estimates of the likely levy have
ranged from 15s. a bale to £3 a bale
(the present levy for wool promotion is
10s. a bale). But probably the best hint
to date is one from Sir William
himself when he said: “The Australian
Wool Bureau long ago recommended a
levy of £1 a bale so I can't see the
new Wool Board recommending less.”
Sir William has indicated that the Con-
ference will get plenty of time to con-
sult its "bosses ’ the woolgrowers of
Australia. But the Board must have an
answer by November, when the Inter-
national Wool Secretariat in which
Australia is the dominant partner
meets in Wellington (NZ).
Australia must be in a position to say
whether it can finance its major share of
a five-year plan for increased wool pro-
motion and market development propos-
ed by the IWS's Australian managing
director, Mr W. J. Vines.
The new Australian Wool Board took
only a few hours at its first meeting to
approve this plan and to dig deep into
its still substantial reserves to finance Aus-
tralia's contribution in 1963-64. This
was necessary because the present 10s.
a bale promotion levy on Australian
woolgrowers continues in force until
next year. The new levy whatever it
may be will not apply until July, 1964.
The Wool Board, which includes five
former members of the now defunct Aus-
tralian Wool Bureau, is obviously con-
fident the industry will provide the
money to finance the rest of the five-year
plan.
It is probably on sound ground. There
is every reason to believe that, although
a substantial portion of Wool Industry
Conference members may oppose the
levy increase, the recommendation will
win majority support always provid-
ing, of course, that the first bite of the
cake is not too big.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Caution Needed in Budget Talks
Businessmen should examine with great reserve any
clamorous propaganda urging a decisively expansive
Budget on the strength of allegedly disappointing March
quarter national income statistics.
Doubtless Federal Cabinet, even with a November or
December election on the cards, can be trusted to maintain
responsible balance in its preliminary discussions.
At any rate the March figures do confirm a firm and
reasonably assured progress from the gloom of the 1960
corrections imposed upon the Australian economy. Both gross
national product and gross domestic expenditure continue to
forge ahead.
Most current indicators and a solid range of company
reports convey the general impression that there will be no
halting in the June quarter. Whatever reluctance remains in
home building or consumer spending, for example, can if
necessary receive stimulation by technical and non-budgetary
means.
Perhaps the outsider sees the overall situation with truer
balance, and harsher critics could pay considerable attention
to the views just expressed by the London “Financial Times.”
Believing that Australia has generated the ground for a new
phase of expansion, the paper believes “fluctuations in the
movements of many indicators have blurred the picture of
recovery.” It succinctly states what the country has gained
out of the recent time of troubles: “With stability in external
accounts and domestic costs, the economy is well placed to
cope with the testing period which lies ahead.”
The nub of any pre-Budget kite-flying surely rests in the
over-riding necessity to hold costs and to fortify the economy
against its crucial struggle to increase exports. Both rural and
secondary industries need that form of stability. If they are
allowed to keep it. there should be no lack of genuine business
confidence
Let nobody minimise either the internal or external pressures
which might fragment the prevailing stability and the drive
towards healthy, non-infiationary development.
,Of themselves a sensible and significant stimulus to
purchasing power, the wave of wage increases, stemming
from the Arbitration Court’s judgment, have still to be digested
by a business organism whose clear recovery has only lately
got properly going. It cannot risk arrest by undue excitement
in the cost structure.
The selfsame argument applies also in its effects upon
exports. Mr McEwen’s European talks and the whole tenor of
the GATT proceedings illustrate that overseas trade will not
become any easier for Australia just because it is more
necessary.
So the easy advocacy of tax cuts and disturbance of the
price structure must be scrutinised with a cool eye on the
immediate and searching future.
One concession, however, business and Government could
be prepared to discuss. Some type of differential tax allow-
ance or depreciation seems essential to permit much Aus-
tralian industry to modernise its plant and equipment.
It was galling, and unfortunately true, that the leader of
a Japanese trade group leaving Australia could say that many
manufacturers here are working with out-of-date equipment.
Industrial modernisation is as commendable a goal as any
to direct pre-Budget pontificators.
MO DERIS ISING PLANT
WITH CERTIFICATES
A problem about the scramble for new machine tools is
that everyone, seemingly, is re-tooling at the same time.
Sweden, recognising the ups and downs in this business, came
up with an idea this year to permit the user at any time to
set aside a proportion of profits (to be wholly or partially
exempt from tax) to buy “plant modernisation certificates”
which would carry interest like tax reserve certificates.
Later the company would be able to use the certificates to
acquire specific items of plant, naturally entitled to invest-
ment, initial and annual allowances on the normal basis.
The certificates would be not negotiable and if the company
did not wish to use them for buying plant, they could be
cashed and subject to income tax and profits tax at the rates
then in force.
NEDC had a look at this proposal. It would help to solve
the simple problem that, when users are prosperous, they all
want tools at once and cannot get delivery. When a recession
occurs, most of them cannot afford the money to buy.
HOW THE IMF SEES
JA PAN-A USTRALIA TRADE
Asa market for Australian goods, Japan now takes second
** place, af er England, and has outstripped that country as
the principal supplier of the Australian market. It would appear
that, with the progress of industrialisation also in other coun-
tries situated along the eastern edge of the Pacific Ocean (such
as Australia), a third great centre of the world economy, with
Japan as its nucleus, is arising.
That’s how Mr P. Lieftinck, member of the board of execu-
tive directors of the IMF, described the Pacific area in a
speech to the Rotterdam Chamber of Commerce on March 7.
He says that lapan’s reintegration into the world economy is
one of the most impressive features of the post-war period.
Between 1948 and 1960 the value of Japanese industrial pro-
duction rose by 300 p.c. and her foreign trade by 400 p.c.
Japan’s share in world market trade in 1960 was 7 p.c.,
equal to all the Latin American countries put together. About
70 p.c. of Japanese import and export trade is conducted with
the US and with countries of South-east Asia.
Japan claims that almost 90 p.c. of her imports are now free


from quantitative restrictions; most of her bilateral trade and
payments agreements have been abolished; and the yen has
become externally convertible for almost all practical purposes.
Japan has indicated she would like to accept the obligations
of Article Eight of the IMF Articles of Agreement by next
June. This also is linked with Japan’s desire to become a mem-
ber of OECD. If Japan accepts Article Eight, the yen will
become fully convertible, although she will still be permitted
to restrict capital transactions.
Japan is making further progress towards full acceptance
by GATT members. Only about nine or 10 nations still apply
Article 35 against her.
EEC PRODUCTION
VERSUS BRITAIN
VI/hen anyone talks of seasonally adjusted figures in Europe
” these days, they include an allowance for the unseasonally
bad weather which, earlier this year, clamped an icy hand on
business operations. Despite the effects of the extreme cold,
fog, flood and other disruptive factors at the beginning of
1963, most of the Common Mar-
ket members and Britain now
report an upturn in industrial
production.
Britain, spurred on by the
Budget concessions, is raising
her factory production and in-
creasing her exports. France,
Germany and Italy failed to in-
crease their output in the first
two months of 1963, according
to figures published by the Sta-
tistical Office of the European
Communities, but preliminary
figures since then show a definite
pick-up. Industrial production in
France was reported to be slip-
ping in April and May. But, of
course, strikes in March and
April brought repercussions.
France, the nation with the
big balance-of-payments sur-
plus, has failed to maintain the
rapid rate of expansion displayed
in 1962 and, in the six months
to April, had a trade deficit in
each month. The high level of consumption in France and
the march of inflation is causing some concern. The French
Government therefore has imposed extra taxes, increased
railway fares, increased the cost of public services and im-
posed special levies on companies. All this to counter the
effects of higher wages and an increase of 9 p.c. in old-age
pensions.
Early figures for 1963 therefore show Britain doing rather
well after flagging badly last year in comparison with The
Six. These figures refer only to industrial production and do
not include construction, food, drink and tobacco. Nor do
they take into consideration the balance-of-payment movements.
COMPARING BANKS
AND PROPERTIES
HPhe Chartered Bank, with which AGC has just linked hands,
A presents an interesting balance sheet compared with Aus-
tralian banks. The pressure to build extra premises in opposi-
tion to other trading banks has been criticised as uneconomic
when related to Australia’s population and business demands.
In other words, a frequent criticism is that Australia is over-
banked.
The “Wales” has more than 1100 branches. The Chartered
Bank and Eastern Bank combined have 122 overseas branches,
apart from five premises in England.
The Chartered Bank, a Royal Charter bank which com-
menced in 1853, has extensive interests in Hong Kong and
the East. It controls the Eastern Bank Ltd (registered in
London), the Allahabad Bank Ltd (registered in India) and
several trust and development companies.
Group fixed assets are listed at £4.2m. sterling in the
consolidated balance sheet out of total assets of £468 million
sterling.
Capital of the Chartered Bank is only £6.6m. against total
shareholders’ funds of £ 15.8 m. It pays a 15 p.c. dividend
(less UK tax of 7s. 9d. in the £) and shows an earning rate
of 16.3 p.c. after making all provisions.
The overseas branches of the group look like a mailing list
for the United Nations. And, of course, many of the branches
operate in some tricky political areas.
Comparing the Chartered Bank with Australia’s largest
bank, the “Wales,” the immediate reaction is that the “Wales”
issued capital, at £21.9m., is nearly three times as big as the
Chartered Bank’s. The “Wales”
earning rate last year was 12.7
p.c. according to the Stock Ex-
change, or 15 p.c. before certain
provisions. It usually pays 9 p.c.
dividend (excluding last year’s
special bonus, which raised the
dividend to lli p.c.).
Fixed assets total £ 14.4 m.
out of total assets of £B7sm.
Shareholders’ funds total
£ 40.2 m.
While recognising that the
Chartered Bank is paying out
much more to shareholders
(which is cut back by the 7s. 9d.
tax deduction at the source), the
“Wales” evidently would be in
a much stronger position to re-
value those fixed assets of
£ 14.4 m. And premises at Wag-
ga may not be subject to as
great a political risk as bank
premises in some area which is
striving for nationalist inde-
pendence. And we were not re-
ferring to the New England area. On the other hand, the strate-
gic positioning of its branches undoubtedly puts the Chartered
Bank in a strong position to take advantage of population and
industrial growth in rapidly developing countries. AGC, already
linked with the Bank of NSW, may gain the best of two worlds.
THE BURDEN OF
INFANT INDUSTRIES
J>rofessor Zelman Cowen must have been talking with his
tongue firmly wedged speaking to the brief given him by
users of polyethylene at the Tariff Board’s public hearing of
evidence on its polyethylene reference. From what he said, any
infant industry which is building a productive capacity ahead
of the market should be made to carry the full burden of the
excess until its venture becomes profitable.
The acceptance of that line of thought by the Tariff Board
would hold out little hope for the growth of secondary industry,
or for the keenly looked for and pressingly urgent revival in
fixed private investment. It would also dampen the enthusiasm
of potential suppliers of overseas capital for secondary industry
development.
If the likes of Mr Bolte and Mr Heffron had to travel the
world in search of overseas capital to develop secondary


Hi
C.B
Travel with
confidence!
THE
COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED
makes all
travel arrangements
for you!
Travelling for business or pleasure, you can
travel with complete confidence when your
travel reservations have been made by the
C.B.A.
Our experienced Travel Officers will gladly
arrange all details for you.
m
7^
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
THE COMMERCIAL SAVINGS BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
CSA/KT/MS
industry here with that rider in their
briefcases, they might as well stay at
home. The building of excess capacity
is only a normal business risk when the
companies concerned have obtained cer-
tain assurances of reasonable protection.
Only a fool would seriously suggest
that no such guarantees were given by
State Governments, at any rate to Union
Carbide and ICIANZ, before going
ahead with their polyethylene plants.
The Federal Government, after search-
ing inquiry by the Tariff Board on the
economics of the industry, has a duty to
honor them, though naturally only until
profits, not Kingdom Come.
ARTICLE 35:
YES OR NO?
ITUhat did the acting secretary of the
Department of Trade tell the As-
sociated Chambers of Manufactures ap-
ropos the application of the contentious
Article 35 of GATT to Japanese trade?
Is there some alternative safeguard un-
der the new Australian-Japanese Trade
Treaty recently finalised and soon to see
the light of day?
This is what the annual report of the
Victorian Chamber of Manufactures
says on the subject: “Concern was felt
at reports current in the early part of
the year that Australia was likely to aban-
don the right to apply Article 35 of
GATT against Japan, which provides
that some protection for Australian
manufacturers can be invoked when nec-
essary. This is covered by Article Five
of the present Australian-Japan Trade
Agreement.
“This matter was discussed at Asso-
ciated Chambers of Manufactures Ex-
ecutive meetings and later, at the request
of the Minister for Trade, with the Act-
ing Secretary of the Department, as a
result of which it is confidently antici-
pated that any new agreement negotiated
with Japan would provide a safe-guarding
clause along similar lines to that at
present operating.”
MA NUFA CTURERS
FEEL NEGLECTED
\ nnual reports of trade associations
can be colorless affairs compared
with the forceful speeches and repre-
sentations made by their leaders in the
course of the year.
The latest from AIDA conforms to
this, except that there is an interesting
contrast between its opening shudder at
the thought of the Government’s spend-
ing nearly six shillings out of every pound
of Gross National Product and its final
advocacy of the establishment of a new
Government department.
The latter would, of course, deal ex-
clusively with the needs of secondary in-
dustry, AIDA’s particular baby.
The association itself sees the role of
such a department as acquiring a thor-
ough knowledge of all aspects of sec-
ondary industry and its place in the
economy, to consult with industry rep-
resentatives on all aspects of its needs
and problems, and be responsible for the
formulation and administration of Gov-
ernment policy for secondary industry.
Certainly it is difficult at the moment
to discern a clearly defined policy for
secondary industry. Also, the Association
is perfectly right in saying the present
Trade Department is too pre-occupied
with overseas trade problems to give
local secondary industry consistent at-
tention. Primary industry has a depart-
ment of its own, so it is only natural
for the manufacturers to want one, too.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Is Inflation Around the Corner?
Ts it short-sighted to see rising prices
A around every bush of growing per-
sonal incomes? The question is whether,
taken together, present de-stabilising
forces add up to a threat to stability
given the present basic strength of an
economy which is now in better balance
than in any year since the war.
“We will probably be fortunate to
avoid a general increase in prices over
the next 12 months, but it is to be
hoped that any rise will be small,” says
the National Bank in its latest summary
of Australian conditions. The summary
also stresses the benefits Australia has
received in the last two years from price
stability. (In the two years to last
December prices rose by only 1 p.c.
here compared with 14 p.c. in Japan,
10 Italy, 9 France, 7 Britain, 6 Western
Germany, and 2 p.c. in the US.)
Not unreasonably the Bank sees the
main threat coming from wage increases,
stemming from the recent margins and
leave decisions, pressure for over-awarci
payments as we get nearer full employ-
ment and, more remotely, from next
year’s full scale basic wage review. It
also envisages a lift to primary income
generation from rising export income.
To these may be added the increase in
defence expenditure oulined by the
Government recently and the possibility
that personal incomes may be given a
boost by tax concessions in the coming
August Budget.
Further, it would appear both from
the buoyant picture of industrial build-
ing and from the latest (April) figures
for building approvals for houses and
flats that this industry is also likely to
give a substantial fillip to incomes during
the remainder of 1963. The April ap-
provals of 8,224 were at a record annual
rate of 98,900 and brought this year’s
total to 76,663 for the last ten months,
compared with 69,799 for the same
period of 1961-62.
Asa start, it should be clear that the
overall increase in personal incomes
arising from these influences would have
to be very considerable to breach price
stability against the present solid buffer
of unused resources still available to
cushion it. As Mr J. L. Ashton, the
chairman of the MLC, said at the
annual meeting, industry was looking
for an increase in demand to ease some
of its problems.
As to the potential boost to come from
wage increases, the net effect should be
looked at in conjunction with what the
Treasurer (Mr Holt) is likely to give in
the way of tax concessions in the August
Budget. He could well argue that, in the
interest of maintaining price stability, per-
sonal tax concessions should be ruled
out, that the Arbitration Commission
has done all that is needed in boosting
personal incomes.
Only if he were going for a Budget
with a political bait attached, or if he
decided the economy needed a fresh
stimulus from the Budget, could big
income tax concessions be reckoned a
certainty. In any case he might prefer
to see any boost from the Budget come
indirectly through a reduction in com-
pany tax. Indeed, this would seem the
more likely course in view of the still
laggard pace of private investment.
Again, if, as the National Bank sug-
gests, export income will be coming
more strongly to the aid of personal
income here, there would be all the less
need for the Government to lend a hand
with income tax concessions. The por-
tents for export income do in fact look
extremely good for the coming year,
quite apart from the current boom in
sugar prices. Wool and metals in par-
ticular should earn us substantially more
export income next year, while recent
increases have brought exports for ten
months this year practically up to last
year’s near-record for the same period.
some of the increase in export
income might be eroded by rising
prices of imports, on balance and against
the background of the present high level
of overseas reserves and capital inflow,
it would add something to the already
comfortable anti-inflationary cushion in
overseas reserves.
The rather higher level of imports in
April shouldn’t be taken as establishing
a trend giving notice of strains de-
veloping in the balance of payments later
this year. The imports figures over the
last nine months have been too patchy
for such an inference to be drawn. Local
stocks of consumer goods are high and
the industrial picture here is still clotted
up with too much unused capacity, (as
Mr Ashton testified at the MLC meet-
ing) to predicate an imports boom.
Indeed, industry looks to be only
coasting along despite the higher level
of production compared with this time
last year. True, output lifted in April,
when of the 35 industries listed in the
official preliminary production figures,
only cotton weaving, TV sets, washing
machines and refrigerators were pro-
ducing less in that month than a year
earlier and nearly all showed an increase
over March. Even so, there could still
be as much as 25 p.c. of slack to
be taken up over the-whole of secondary
industry.
How much of this could be taken up,
given present shortages of skilled labor
in some industries, may be a moot point
but a rise of from 10 to 20 p.c.
in total industrial output could be ef-r
fected without much difficulty, given
the necessary orders. This is a measure
of the anti-inflationary cushion resting
in industry and, as we have seen, there
is also a very adequate cushion in over-
seas reserves and overseas earnings pro-
spects to afford such a rise in industrial
output without any great embarrassment
to the balance of payments.
it gets back to the question of effec-
tive demand, the flow of orders.
Mr Ashton’s queries about these being
sufficient appear more pertinent than the
National Bank’s worries about the pos-
sibility of inflation being just around
the corner.
Neither fixed investment nor personal
spending is at present nearly adequate
to ensure the full employment of re-
sources, and with fixed investment un-
likely to make a significant break-through
while surplus industrial capacity abounds,
the onus is still squarely on personal
spending.
Unfortunately the main hindrance to
the flow of orders lies in the dogged
cautiousness still being shown by con-
sumers. except, perhaps, in buying motor
vehicles. For all the slight recent im-
provement, retail sales other than of
motors are frankly most disappointing
considering the economic recovery has
been in progress for more than a year.
In the big spending month last De-
cember they were only 1 p.c. higher
than a year earlier and in the subsequent
four months they have averaged only a
little over 3 p.c. more than in the same
months last year.
This poor performance is also re-
flected in new instalment credit out-
standings of non-retail finance companies,
which increased by only £4.2 million
in the first four months this year, main-
ly as a result of new motor business.
The continued cautiousness in personal
spending and heightened preference' for
saving are the two big present ponder-
ables in the exercise of forecasting the
trend in prices. If spenders dropped their
cloak of caution it would make all the
difference to the flow of orders and also
to the chances of a breach in price
stability.
Nobody can say when this will hap-


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of
New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
m
PER ANNUM
TO 10 YEARS
also available
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
Rates from 6% p.a. for
6 months to B|% p.a. for
4 to 10 years.
Full details of these issues will be found in the Company's
Prospectus which is available at all branches of the
Company's Bankers, the Bank of New South Wales,
any Member of the Stock Exchange, or any office of
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited
Applications may be made only on the forms attached
to the Prospectus.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George St, Sydney. Phone: 27-8621
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • WAGGA • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE
CC 162/ AB
pen, but at any rate the dice is be-
coming less loaded in favor of putting
money into savings banks and, given even
a modicum of inflation, perhaps set
off by some of the forces brewing up
from wage increases, higher defence ex-
penditure and so on, spending could
come into fashion again, perhaps with-
out warning and even over-night.
Union Carbide’s Dividend
Tn “Economics Anonymous” last week
it was stated that Union Carbide’s
dividend for the 1961-62 year was
halved. This was not so; the company
paid a full 10 p.c.
£5.7m. Bonuses by
City Mutual
"E^ollowing the recent announcement of
A a gross rate of interest of <£6 ss. sd.
p.c., the Manager for New South Wales
of the City Mutual Life Assurance
Society Ltd, Mr R. W. Guest, reports
that the total amount of bonuses dis-
tributed to City Mutual policyholders for
1962 was £5,765,000, an increase of
18 p.c. over the 1961 figure and nearly
2i times the amount distributed five
years ago.
The City Mutual claims to be the only
mutual office which retains the whole of
its surplus within Australia invested in
Australian securities.
Bonus rates have now reached the
stage that a normal £lOOO Whole of
Life policy would increase to £2OOO in
25 years and £3OOO in 40 years if pres-
ent rates were to continue.
Australian mutual life offices, which
are owned solely by their policyholders,
are effectively meeting competition from
overseas offices.
Hungary to Exhibit
its Exports
TTungary will be participating for the
first time in the Sydney Trade Fair
from July 26 to August 10. It will dis-
play a .vide variety of export goods.
Twelve Hungarian foreign trading
companies will be exhibiting in an area
of about 230 square metres. The goods
will include machine tools, instruments,
household machines, and other electrical
appliances, textiles, haberdashery, folk
art products, jewellery and Herend
porcelain. The Hungarian Food industry
will be represented by tinned meat,
vegetables, fruits and wines.
There will also be Hungarian camping
equipment, pharmaceutical products and
an example of the Heller-Forgo “dry”
cooling equipment for use in power-sta-
tions and atomic-plants in areas that
lack sufficient water supply.


INVEST
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
o
y
/c
o
10-20 years
Applications must be lodged
on the form attached to the
prospectus.
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE NOTES
) Applications must be made
on the form attached to the
prospectus and the acknow-
ledgment will be a Registered
Redeemable Unsecured Note.
HOW TO INVEST
Obtain a prospectus from and
lodge applications at:—
• Any Stockbroker.
• The National Bank of
Australasia Limited.
• Any office of Burns Philp
Trust Co. Ltd. v , t
• Any store or office of
Waltons Limited.
• Waltons Credit Corpora-
tion Limited, Park and
George Streets, Sydney.
Phone 61-9273.
jsag
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
CAS 23 186
“CROESUS”
The Work-Shy Community
With an extra week’s paid leave on
the books and the trade unions
campaigning for a 35-hour working week,
two industrial leaders have warned of
the danger of our becoming a work-shy
community.
Some of the statistics given by one
of them, Mr T. M. Ramsay, outgoing
president of the Victorian Chamber of
Manufactures, are illuminating. He
pointed out that for the nominal 40-
hour working week, employers actually
got an average of only 36.3 that is,
after subtraction of time lost through
annual and sick leave, public holidays
and so on, but not taking into account
tea breaks or crib time.
He cited figures from the International
Labor Office which placed the average
1888 hours worked each year by Aus-
tralian workers third lowest in a list of
39 countries, only France and Indonesia
(not an industrialised country) working
less. We are well below countries with
populations of similar size, such as
Belgium (2164 hours a year), Nether-
lands (2352) and Sweden (2108). Top of
the list are Japan and Mexico with 2416
hours apiece or nearly 30 p.c. more than
here.
Mr Ramsay’s comment on this is
simply that Australia cannot afford to be
in this position; and Mr. W. G. Gerard’s
remarks to the annual meeting of the
Australian Metal Trades Association in
Canberra last week were just as pointed.
A part from our low working hours pre-
judicing our efforts to increase pro-
ductivity and get a larger share of world
markets, in his view “there is no doubt
that development of this young country
will be delayed if we think in terms of
more leisure and less work. If we are
to achieve our rightful place in world
affairs, our arbitration tribunals will have
to pay greater attention to overseas
standards when considering working con-
ditions in this country.”
Talking about the effect of a 35-hour
week on productivity, Mr Ramsay said
it would “almost certainly mean a serious
loss of production, which, without work-
ing much additional overtime, could not
easily be made up; prices would rise
consequent upon higher production
costs; Australian products would be
further handicapped in both the home
and export markets. Increased un-
employment would inevitably follow.
“The argument that reduced working
hours would provide employment for
those at present without work is a fallacy
indeed, the deleterious effect of this
policy would undoubtedly swell the army
for which work would not be available.
“Neither would it help the prevailing
shortage of skilled tradesmen, which is
also a factor in preventing unskilled
laborers from obtaining work and un-
skilled and unemployable labor forms
the largest proportion of our unemployed.
“The present state of the labor market
demands the full working capacity of
Australia’s skilled working force in any
attempt to stem the tide of unemploy-
ment.
“Moreover, if a 35-hour week were
adopted, excessive overtime would have
to be worked to maintain even the
present level of production. This would
certainly not mean a reduction of hours
worked for anybody, but merely a
serious increase in production costs,”
Mr Ramsay said.
Tn the same view he also attacked the
A whittling down of services to the public
by the growing pressure to reduce
trading facilities to within the limited
confines of a five-day week, and cited
the five-day banking week legislation as
a prime example of the public interest
being ignored in order to satisfy a small
minority group, and also union agitation
for the closure of post offices on Satur-
day mornings.
“Trading hours are already sufficiently
regimented,” he said, “and further
curtailment would not only weaken the
free enterprise system to which Aus-
tralia owes so much but would lead to
the serious consequences of reducing
consumer demand.
“The home market would suffer
because consumers would be denied the
leisurely shopping which permits un-
hurried selection of choice. They would
buy not what they want but only those
items which they absolutely need and
could obtain in the restricted hours at
their disposal.
“A reduced home market, in turn,
would add to the cost structure, which
is one of the severest handicaps Aus-
tralian industry has to face in its battle
for an increased share of the export
market.
“This does not mean, however, that
any members of Australia’s work-force
should be expected to work seven days a
week. It should not, however, be an
unalterable law that working hours
should commence for everybody at 8 or
9 a.m., and finish at 4or 5 p.m. Shift
work is necessary and accepted in some
services and industries, and there is no
reason why it should not be applicable
to all others where required.”


**•* *
\<^llS,3ao 3
•yflOVis
~c
mmoßßSt
u.WUMI
I
YOUR
FAVOURITE
BRANDY
fine Australian
pot-still
THREE STAR
Distinctive in flavour and bouquet
OLD LIQUEUR
. A superb quality Liqueur Brandy
itHTI
T
BRANDY
INVESTMENT SECTION
Price - Cutting War in Cars Looms
A lthough motor vehicle registration
statistics give every indication that
1962-63 has been a bumper year for
sales, investors should not be carried
away by the fairly natural conclusion
that motor distributors are having their
most fruitful year.
The statistics for registration of all
motor vehicles, excluding motor cycles,
for the last four years are:
10 months May- Year-to
to April June June
1960 241,293 51,711 293,004
1961 242.680 39,452 282,132
1962 212.617 55,431 268,048
1963 286,900
It has taken two full years for the
motor industry to regain the pace set in
1959-60, which was heavily retarded by
sales tax and credit weapons used by the
Government in November, 1960.
The registrations in the current finan-
cial year to April are so far in front of
previous years to this stage that it can
be confidently predicted that the year’s
figures will exceed 337,000.
The atmosphere of the motor vehicle
industry is, however, vastly different from
that prevailing three years ago.
Major companies now are resorting
to price-cutting in their efforts to hold
or increase their share of the market.
Trading conditions are extremely com-
petitive and margins have been fined
down. So another price-cutting war
looms.
Only last week Chrysler made a bid
for a larger share of the medium car
market, now dominated by Holden and
Ford, by announcing reduced prices for
two models of Valiants and the addition
of a third to their range.
The manufacturers’ actions are not of
direct investment interest, but they deter-
mine conditions for the distributors,
many of which are listed.
The distributors themselves control the
weapon of trade-ins, which appear to be
more generous than they were.
John A. Gilbert Holdings, Sydney Hol-
den distributor, ruled off its books in
March and has circularised shareholders
that profits exceeded the 1961 record
by a small margin, but most distributors
who make their financial reckoning as at
June 30, will not be able to coast in
with record profits. They have had to use
all their horse sense and horse power to
notch those turnovers.
Food for Thought
/\ne of the soundest little companies
on the lists is Cottee’s Ltd. Its
bread and butter lines are well accepted
by Australian consumers, and sales were
broadened again this year to March 31.
Profits continued their uninterrupted
progression, and the 31.9 p.c. earning
rate (on capital expanded by last year’s
one-for-four bonus) gives excellent mar-
gin over the usual 15 p.c. dividend.
The introduction of frozen concen-
trated orange juice could precede the ar-
rival of other pure fruit juices packaged
by the same technique. There’s scope
here to offset the effects of sharper com-
petition in the aerated soft drinks trade.
And why doesn’t the company move
into the canning of segmented mandar-
ines, which are so delectably done by
the Japanese?
Ampul Sets Sights
TAirectors of Ampol Petroleum Ltd
have wisely circulated shareholders
with a comprehensive screed detailing the
arrangements for finance, personnel and
design of the new Brisbane refinery,
construction of which begins by July 31.
It is difficult to be unimpressed by
the fact that four Australian banks will
provide <£B.3 million (at 7 p.c. interest),
and seven Australian financial institu-
tions will contribute £5 million (at
li p.c. interest).
Trading in the rights to the deferred
ordinary share issue, which will raise
£7.8 million, opened on May 31.
The Board is satisfied that crude oil
can be bought at a price to make the
refinery profitable. Further, the company
will be able to sell extra new petroleum
products for an adequate profit, which
cannot now be purchased economically.
Profits from the B. F. Goodrich ven-
ture and the tanker P. J. Adams will not
accrue until 1964, and from the Austra-
lian Lubricating Oil Refinery until
1964-65.
Directors predict that profits from re-
fining, marketing and shipping will allow
the service of fixed interest loans, re-
payment of advances and loans on mat-
urity, and a satisfactory margin over a
steady 14 p.c. dividend.
Few companies set out their pro-
gramme so explicitly and confidently.
The only events which have upset di-
rectors' calculations to date are the fail-
ure to find their own commercial oil, and
the trade union resistance to employment
of a foreign crew on P. J. Adams.
Investors should not be too sceptical
of Ampol’s ability to attain its chosen
objectives.
Builder for Malaysia
A N enterprising Sydney building group,
PGH Industries, is shortly to com-
mence activities in Malaysia. First steps
will lead to establishing a pipe-making


factory. Discussions are now being com-
pleted with the Malayan Government.
A detailed announcement should
come from directors within the next few
weeks. It is to be hoped that other Aus-
tralian industries decide to make similar
moves. There is no lack of local capital
and official support to encourage them.
The benefits to Australia itself are ob-
vious.
PGH has just concluded a successful
nine months of the 1962-63 financial
year. Estimated profit to March 31, at
£218,821, is well ahead of the
£168,098 for the corresponding por-
tion of 1961-62. Earning rate drooped
slightly on higher capital, but directors
feel the current quarter may catch up
again.
Difficulties are still being experienced
with its subsidiary, Brisbane Brick and
Builders’ Supply, though South Austra-
lian ventures are proving particularly
successful.
The ss. shares at 16s. lid. are close
to this year’s 17s. 3d. peak. They reached
21s 6d. last year.
Refractory Investment
some little time the markets have
been putting Newbold’s ss. shares
under moderate pressure. A mood of un-
ease is quite apparent around ’Change.
The directors find all this rather diffi-
cult to understand. To begin with, full
1962-63 profits are expected at least to
equal the previous year’s. The company
is having no trouble with its sales of
refractories. Building bricks are, of
course, battling it out with the rest of the
industry.
Perhaps investors continue to con-
template the longer-term influence of
ACl’s entry into refractories manufac-
ture, together with Harbison Walker. Yet
Newbold appears well-fitted to cope with
competition. Past importations from Eur-
ope, for instance, have been reasonably
well handled.
Admittedly past share levels were
clearly too high, in common with many
other quite estimable industrials. Even
the prevailing 15s. 9d. still yields only
3.8 p.c. on a 12i p.c. dividend which
may not quickly be advanced.
It’s too broad a gap, though, between
that price and this year’s top 20s. 9d.
The markets should be willing to move
further away, also, from the low of
14s. 9d. If the current year is to see no
repeat of 1961-62’s profit retreat, some
investors should want to come in.
Palm to the West
HPhere was quite a difference in Mel-
bourne Stock Exchange’s reception
to two new floats, Albury TV and Mr
Jacoby’s new WA h.p. company, Ready
Credit. Both were ss. shares issued at
par, but Albury only managed to find
an opening buyer at ss. 6d. whereas
Ready Credit started life at 7s. despite
the paucity of information reaching the
Eastern States about the float.
This seems to speak well for Mr
Jacoby’s reputation as former chief of
Custom Credit. There were only
400,000 Albury TV shares in the public
issue, whereas it is believed that, to-
gether with the 600,000 of Ready Credit
shares originally offered to the public,
Mr Jacoby released a further 100,000
or more from his own original allotment
of 288,000 shares to satisfy public
demand in the west.
Searing Troubles
TT eating engineer G. H Sears Holdings
11 has had to spread a species of dis-
illusionment lately. Two series of take-
over negotiations (one local, one over-
seas) broke down. Then directors were
forced to put the main operating sub-
sidiaries under management.
After realisation of their assets, a distri-
bution to shareholders may eventuate or
another takeover be sought.
Within these complexities investors had
also to cope with problematical inter-
company adjustments. The 20s. shares
have been marked back uncomfortably
to ss, though optimistic sellers continue
to place their sights higher.
Dividends have been ir abeyance since
1961 and only limited operations are
ensuing at present.
Silken Strands
A ustralia Silknit shares have been
forced upwards as a result of
the O’Connell Corporation takeover
offer. At the time of writing, the ss.
ordinaries had reached 11s., with selling
quotes at 12s.
This was in response to the 13s. cash
offer. Before that came along, early May
produced an actual sale at 6s. 3d. and
immediate pre-offer quotes stood buyer
6s. 3d., seller 6s. 9d.
Shareholders had not been reinvigor-
ated by announcement of a £20,698
profit in 1962, following the previous
year’s £184,186 loss. No dividend
looked in sight.
The fate of the present bid will al-
most certainly depend on the decision of
Silknit Ltd, Canada, which holds 68 p.c.
of Australia Silknit capital. An earlier
attempt at takeover last year was firmly
repulsed.
The new bidder, O’Connell Corpora-
tion, is the old textile company Cleo-
Cladders in its role of merchant banker,
O'Connell secured Stock Exchange list-
ing through the Cleo “shell” and is now
fertilised with a 50 p.c. interest held by
“Just for a change, gentlemen let's do it your way!"


Sydney sharebroker Mullens and Co.
Mr F. H. Mullens is chairman.
O’Connell’s paid capital is £60,000
and its ss. shares sell at ss. 9d. to yield
3.4 p.c.
A Miller’s Tale
4 llied Mills’ cheering interim report
' r%L has been allowed to pass sedately
by the share-markets. The ss. shares have
not changed much either way since di-
rectors’ statement on May 20.
They still hover around 17s. 3d. at
which price they return 3.5 p.c., with
the 1961-62 earnings yield just on 6 p.c.
This isn’t a cheap buy, though the shares
touched 18s. 6d. last year and went as
high as 17s. 9d. earlier in 1963.
The latest report brought news of
higher sales and profit in the six months
to March. An interim dividend is pay-
able in July. The 1961-62 full rate went
up from 10 p.c. (paid since 1958) to
12 p.c.
Marked capital expansion which
started in 1960 has in no way stifled
earning rate. Directors, too, diversified
keenly to correct any erosion of export
flour markets.
The group’s historical concentration
was upon flour milling, but the chair-
man (Mr J. Cadwallader) could confi-
dently say in March, “We do not now
rely on any one industry.”
Even at slightly higher prices, the
stock deserves notice. Perhaps, though,
investors would like more information on
the bakery units, whose losses were over-
come after the 1961-62 balance date,
and on the starch and gluten subsidiary.
New Mining Float
TI/ith Walter P. Ham and Co. the
underwriter and Sir Douglas Cop-
land, Ham’s economic adviser, as chair-
man, Investment House in Little Collins
Street has a big fist in the new float,
an NT mining proposition, Jervois Sul-
phates (NT) Ltd. It is to be listed in
Adelaide and Melbourne after a public
issue of 360,000 ss. shares.
The company has been formed to
purchase mining rights and plant for
the production of copper sulphates in
the Jervois mineral field, 250 miles east
of Alice Springs. Production is expected
to start before the end of this year. On
estimated ore reserves of 100,000 tons
of oxidised ore
copper, an initial life of eight years is
assured at a projected output rate of
2240 tons a year. A pilot plant has
already produced 100 tons of copper
sulphate, encountering no production
snags.
This new company should become a
good import saver, imports over the last
three years having averaged 700 tons
and rising to 1131 tons in 1961-62.
Australian consumption of copper sul-
phate is around 4500 tons, used mainly
in agriculture, selective flotation of lead-
zinc ores, chemical and printing in-
dustries.
Dalgety’s Property
TAalgety and New Zealand Loan Ltd
joined the ranks of pastoralists by
recently buying its first cattle property,
located in Central Queensland.
A subsidiary will buy and operate
other properties.
The chief opposition, Elder Smith
Goldsbrough Mort Ltd, owns properties
as do many of the smaller woolbroking
companies and stock and station agencies.
Doubts on Macquarie
11/|'acquarie Worsteds’ ss. shares have
started to slip again after a brief
fillip given by the interim report. This
report took them momentarily to the
year’s top at 4s. Bd., but they are now
at 3s. 9d.
Nobody expects a piecegoods maker to
get an easy ride these days, let alone
Macquarie with so much ground to make
up. Directors, however, sounded genu-
inely hopeful in announcing considerably
higher sales and profits for the half-year
to March. A healthy order book is also
in evidence.
The 33 p.c. interim dividend inferred
a 7 p.c. annual rate, which would be
the highest the company has paid for
three years. One payment at 5 p.c. was
made for 1961-62, after a £55,193
profit reversed the previous year’s
£86,576 loss.
Macquarie’s resistance to the Astor
Consolidated takeover attempt early in
1960 not only produced a small bonus
reorganisation of capital (though a prom-
ised 10 p.c. dividend fell by the way-
side), but probably led as well to a much
tighter control of operations.
A Heavy Load to Lift
Directors of Freightlines and Con-
struction Holding should act to re-
move the stigma on the company’s Stock
Exchange reputation as speedily as pos-
sible. It is all very well for shareholders
to learn that profits for the December
half-year “are of the order of £44,000.”
They still haven’t a market for their
shares and they must still want to peruse
the delayed 1961-62 accounts.
Listing was suspended in March 1962
and complete removal from the list took
place in March this year. So shareholders
have lived in a double limbo for some
14 months no adequate report, no
share dealings.
If present directors behave in accord
with their promises, and these fit in with
Stock Exchange demands, there’s every
reason to let bygones be bygones. The
old Kwikasair atmosphere can be for-
gotten.
Road freighting is no picnic these
days. So detailed particulars are needed
of Freightlines’ venture into a “special-
ised field” and its “vigorous programme
of expansion.” General statements on
profit growth will scarcely allay the open
criticism already initiated by a dissident
shareholder.
Pursuing Normality
TTow normal is normal for Isas (NSW)
Ltd, construction equipment distri-
butor, is a question that will presumably
have to wait still another year. Directors
believe the latest results, for the year
to March 31, “do not reflect a return
to the profitability . . . satisfactory un-
der normal trading conditions.”
Sales since April 1 are moving favor-
ably, aided particularly by deliveries to
government departments. The construc-
tion and timber industries need more
positive recovery, however.
Shareholders have received a modi-
cum of encouragment, the dividend hav-
ing been taken from 5 to 73 p.c. A
10 p.c. rate applied between 1958 and
1961.
Profit advanced by £14,548 to
£35,255 after two successive retreats.
Earnings reached their peak of £54,207
in 1960.
The present results have again been
affected by write-offs for bad debts, which
remained a “major problem” as in
1961-62.
Shareholders can take further conso-
lation from seeing the 20s. shares budg-
ing slightly. They have stayed below par
for close on two years, but are now at a
1963 top of 17s. Future advances may
not be quick.
Mount Isa Record
Tnvestors shouldn’t miss the repeated
■*- significance of Mount Isa's high
throughputs. The latest four weeks to
May 26 saw record ore output of
264,629 tons. Metals produced after
treatment were: lead bullion. 4400 tons
(April 4400); zinc concentrate, 3718
tons (3670); blister copper, 5200 tons
(4855).
Rio Grand
T>io Tinto-Zinc Corporation’s first
annual report presents a vivid and
stimulating picture of world-wide min-
ing and industrial interests. With so much
on the boil, it may come as a shock to
discover the chairman (Mr A. M. Baer)
remarking that “the next few years will
require careful husbanding of our re-
sources.”
But the great merger, formally less


AUSTRALIAN EQUITY
CORPORATION LTD
(Formerly MOTOR CREDITS LIMITED)
£250,000 issue Fully Subscribed
OVER SUBSCRIPTIONS
still being accepted
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
%
P.A.
5-10 YRS.
4 YRS.
7i% P.A.
3 YRS.
7i% P.A.
2 YRS.
7% P.A.
REGISTERED
UNSECURED
NOTES
P.A.
2 5 YRS.
4 YRS.
8% P.A.
3 YRS.
7i% P.A.
2 YRS.
71% P.A.
(Also shorter term currencies to 3 months)
Applications will proceed only on the form referred to and enclosed in the prospectus which can be obtained from:
0 Australian Equity Corporation Ltd,
365 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Telephone: 67-7701.
123 Ryrie Street, Geelong. 9-3597.
Branches at: Sydney, Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane.
# Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce Insurance Co. Ltd.
O Any Branch of the Bank of N.S.W. in Victoria and other States.
# Any Branch Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited in Victoria
only.
# Members of any recognised stock exchange in Australia.
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE: J. B. WERE & SON
3612
than a year old, has so many moves afoot
still basically at developmental stages that
Mr Baer’s counsel sounds realistic. Tre-
mendous capital outlay is envisaged for
the next few years.
So far as this one particular aspect
goes, Australians will be chiefly con-
cerned with plans for Comalco alumin-
ium and the Hamersley (WA) iron ore
deposits.
“Comalco will require additional funds,
but again most of this money will be
raised by Comalco itself or its subsidiaries
on a debt basis,” Mr Baer explains.
As regards Hamersley, “these deposits
have already been proved to be exten-
sive and of high quality, but much re-
mains yet to be done before a final plan
for development of port sites, railway,
roads and marketing, as well as financing,
can be evolved. The year 1963 should
be one of basic planning.”
In all, 38.2 p.c. of group assets (total-
ling £stg. 131,725,000) lie in Australia.
They are operated by the subsidiary Con-
zinc Riotinto of Australia, in which local
shareholders have a direct 10 p.c. interest.
In view of Mary Kathleen Uranium’s
probable closure towards the end of
this year, it is interesting to note that the
Canadian uranium offshoot, Rio Algom,
expects to keep one mine in operation
until 1971 and perhaps longer. The re-
cently negotiated 1962 contract with the
UK Atomic Energy Authority permits
flexible deliveries.
Perhaps there is a measure of con-
solation in “a growing belief” that the
market for peaceful uses of uranium will
be substantial by the 19705. Rio Algom
has also had to close down mines, so
MKU is far from alone.
By and large, Rio Tinto-Zinc’s best
prospects are in Australia. Remaining
assets are spread as follows: North
America, 24.7 p.c.; United Kingdom,
19.9 p.c.; Central Africa, 13.3 p.c.;
Europe, 3.2 p.c.; South Africa, 0.7 p.c.
Principal interests by materials are
distributed: uranium, 26.3 p.c.; lead and
zinc, 10.9 p.c.; chemicals, 13.0 p.c.; cop-
per investment, 10 p.c.; oil investment,
9.6 p.c.; copper, 2.4 p.c.; aluminium,
6.3 p.c.; other minerals, 8.8 p.c.
At present, Australian profits are con-
tributing somewhat less than their pro-
portion of assets. Ruling lead, zinc and
silver prices, together with progress by
Comalco aluminium, might soon change
that position.


rrn rrn •
lyre twins
TC%om recent announcements that Dun-
lep Rubber (Aust.) Ltd and Olympic
Consolidated Industries Ltd will combine
forces to produce tyres in South Australia
and Western Australia, the observer de-
duces that competition in the tyre trade
is pretty keen.
These two Australian companies ob-
viously see benefits in uniting operation-
ally.
The Elizabeth (SA) and Fremantle
(WA) plants will be in production by
June, 1964, and on each location
£500,000 will be expended jointly by the
partners.
Hardie Rubber, subsidiary of H. C.
Sleigh, has also revealed it will build
a £400,000 tyre plant at Perth.
Television New England
npELEVisioN New England expects to
begin regular transmissions in April
next year. Test patterns from its station,
NEN Channel 9, should be possible by
February.
The coverage area, the largest served
by a commercial TV station in Australia,
embraces 40,000 square miles and in-
cludes such prominent country towns as
Tamworth, Gunnedah, Armidale, Inver-
ell, Moree and Narrabri.
Directors have already received con-
firmation of advance bookings for adver-
tising. They are confident of exceeding
licence application estimates of revenue.
Capital of £400,000 is now fully paid.
The ss. shares are selling around Is. Bd.
A Test Before Buying
Y ocal Stock Exchange devotees and
embryo security analysts might like
to try themselves out on a couple of
questions to be attempted by Wall Street
analysts this month. They form part of
a trial test which, it is hoped, will lead
to regular examinations to establish strin-
gent professional standards through the
securities industry.
The first question implies a basic econ-
omic knowledge: “The acceptance of
Keynesian economics and the consequent
commitments by Western Governments
to ‘full employment economics’ made
equity investment considerably safer in
the postwar world; inflation made it
much more desirable. Discuss critically
in the light of American experience.”
Then down to the job directly: “You
are the manager of the research depart-
ment of a firm that limits its research
analysis primarily to common stocks.
How would you select the stocks you
would analyse? What instructions would
you give a new junior analyst who is to
prepare a research report on one of these
stocks? As manager of the department,
on what basis would you like your per-
formance to be measured?”
That last section might get close to the
bone of some Australian brokers’ “per-
formances” over the last few years!
But Sydney Stock Exchange at least is
aware of the need for high qualifications
and has launched a four-year course for
employees of broking houses.
Crowning Indignity
rFHE de-listing of the shares of Reid
A Murray Holdings is the crowning
indignity for the once vaunted O’Grady
empire, even more so perhaps than the
court proceedings against Victorian di-
rectors of the company last week. But
the SE had to recognise the awful truth
that the shares were worthless; and there
is a point, too, that henceforth it would
be a waste of time and money processing
share transfers.
For all the build-up of tax losses in
the RM subsidiaries, these are probably
worthless to the parent company since
they are contingent of such heavy lia-
bilities to creditors who would pick
them to extinction. As things appear at
the moment, they would be worth nothing
to the holding company’s shareholders,
which in any case are blotted out by
the claims of prior charge holders.
Their £9.3 million equity is well down
the drain, while their 10 jd.c. discounts on
purchases at Hicks Atkinson, it is said,
will also come to an end on June 14, be-
cause on that date the store is understood
to be putting up its shutters to make
way for offices for an unnamed buyer.
Stramit Pushes Sales
Quite a few building and building mat-
erials companies will be able to re-
port decided advances for 1962-63. One
of the smaller ones which claims re-
covery well ahead of the industry as a
whole is Stramit Boards, now expecting
to exceed forecast sales of £1.5 million.
Nine months’ profits to March also show
a good recovery. The company resumed
dividends with 4 p.c. last year. Its ss.
shares stand close to 6s. 6d.
Titanium Renewal
Tlmenite producer Western Titanium
can apparently look forward to some
optimistic and fruitful years.
After earlier uncertainties, it must be
music to hear the chairman (Mr K. A.
Cameron) say: “The results for the year,
taken in conjunction with the increasing
demand for our principal product, and
the other avenues of likely expansion
the world of business
"Australs, Kaitgas... what the heck. It'll all finish up being called
Dough, Hay, Loot and Lolly."


HOW TO USE
PUTS AND CALLS
Sensible Speculation
Speculative opportunities for pro-
fits with LIMITED risk, through
knowledgeable use of PUT and
CALL Share Options, are numer-
ous and available daily. You have
but to scan a newspaper's stock
market page and note the price
changes in many of even the
highest quality stocks to verify
the regular occurrences of such
opportunities.
Write, phone or post coupon today
for further details.
To MONTGOMERY, HUGHES & CO.
PTY. LTD.,
324 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Phone: 26-1024.
Please send further information to:
Name
Address
present a picture of steady growth which
I am sure will be most encouraging to all
shareholders.”
Defined expansion may soon demand
more capital, though directors feel that
present resources should be husbanded so
that development need not be hampered.
Despite 1962-63’s more than doubled
profit, they have therefore lifted divi-
dend only from 3d. to 4id. a ss. share.
Much of the recent advance began,
of course, through the “evergreen” con-
tract with the London-based Laporte
Titanium Ltd, which has established a
titanium pigment plant at Bunbury
(WA). Mr Cameron was able to announce
completion of negotiations to supply
50,000 tons a year for 1965, 1966 and
1967.
Two new long-term customers are also
to receive initial shipments this year. Al-
together, total demand will exceed avail-
able plant capacity, which may call for
substantial expansion in the reasonably
near future.
Mr Cameron sounds quite confident
that the company’s pilot work on up-
grading ilmenite can lead to the position
where the high-grade raw maierial will
always be competitive with rutile.
Western Titanium’s shares will take
some impetus from this report and the
shape of things to come. A move above
this year’s high at 6s. 3d. appears prob-
able.
Real Prestige
At least one clothing maker possesses
no doubts about the future. After
almost doubling profits to a record
£312,787 for the year to March 31,
Prestige Ltd added a bonus 2i p.c. to the
10 p.c. ordinary dividend paid since 1956.
Earning rate goes to a peak 34 p.c.
A month before these results, the com-
pany confidently decided on a one-for-
five bonus issue of ss. ordinaries. Higher
capital is not expected to hinder the
10 p.c. basic dividend Not unnaturally
share prices have shot up above 11s.,
after an earlier 1963 top at 9s.
Retail Rumpus
present board of retailer Mark
A Foy’s does not look like getting
much bxeathing time to display its met-
tle. Last year’s defeated directorial candi-
date, Mr H. M. Macken, a former chair-
man and managing director, has quickly
returned to the fray after meditating on
the preliminary results for 1962-63.
The Bulletin a week or two ago
regretted that directors had not seen fit
to provide more explicit details in their
first profit statement. After all, announced
earnings at £60,996 did not cover the
retained 12? p.c. dividend and a few
bare comments on current trading were
far from cheerful.
Now Mr Macken is urging share-
holders to give the forthcoming accounts
“careful scrutiny” and suggesting that
“a return to sound retailing practice and
to profits must be preceded by a recon-
struction of the board of the company
and in particular by the introduction of
experienced master retailers to the
board.”
He himself won’t stand for re-election,
he says, but advocates extension of the
board to nine members, the maximum
allowed under the articles, instead of the
existing seven. The board’s policy of
“fundamental change in the character of
a long-established retail store” comes un-
der fire as well.
Directors might well plead that the
dust from the previous turmoil, resolved
only in June last, could have been al-
lowed to settle a little longer. Their new
proposals, especially the now-fashionable
suburban moves, were buying time and
demanded an uncontroversial atmosphere
for implementation.
Factional infighting won’t be of any
benefit unless it brings all concerned
down to tin-tacks, especially about past
accumulated profits allegedly brought in-
to the latest accounts to express “re-
covery.”
The ss. shares reflect feelings of
doubt and are at the year’s low of
9s. lid.
“Don’t Sell Factors”
Tractors Ltd unsecured note and de-
benture holders have received the
advice of the trustees not to sell, pending
a statement of affairs from the company.
The inference is that the debenture-
holders anyway should receive more than
the <£3s or £36 at which the £lOO
debentures recently sold on the market.
Melhourne’s JNew Index
Iyi'ELBOURNE STOCK EXCHANGE is SOOn
to come up with a new index of
share prices on which work has been
in progress for about six months, ac-
cording to the Exchange’s half-yearly
report. This index, based on a Montreal
adaptation of Standard & Poor’s (US)
500 stock index and classified into 16
groups, will provide the missing link
in an otherwise comprehensive bag of in-
dicators issued daily from the Exchange,
including the recently included figures
for the value of turnover in industrial
and mining groups.
However, the Exchange hopes to pro-
vide even better information services
when the results of a study of the pos-
sibilities of installing a computer, now
being undertaken by a Canadian expert
on a four weeks’ stay in Melbourne, can
be implemented.
But this won’t be for some time, Mr
A. B. Mellor, the chairman of the com-
mittee, told The Bulletin last week. It
would probably have to wait until the Ex-
change gets into its proposed new home
at 351 Collins Street, where planning for
the new building to be erected in con-
junction with the ANZ Bank (which
owns the site) has reached the stage of
getting approval for the building. And,
as Mr Mel’or said, the project has not
yet been formally approved by members
of the Exchange. Not that they are likely
to turn it down, despite the fact it will
hit their pockets pretty hard. Members
are going to have their say later this
month.
In the interim, figures for turnover in
the six months to March 31 given in the
Exchange’s half yearly report don’t sug-
gest there is any great hurry for members
to get more house room, because total
turnover of shares rose by only 1.4 p.c.
over the period, the number of shares
traded increasing from 76 to 88 million
in round figures. Nor for that matter do
daily turnovers by value figures issued for
the last fortnight or so. Industrial turn-
overs are not too bad, but mining and
oils are miserable.


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members ol Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P O. BOX
(4 lines ) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Philip Morris - A Comparison
/"\n May 10, the directors of Philip
Morris (Australia) Ltd announced
that sales and earnings for the nine
months to March 31 were more than
45 p.c. higher than the corresponding
nine months of the previous year. The
interim announcement in January indi-
cated that earnings for the first half of
1962-63 were 47 p.c. greater than those
of the first half of 1961-62 and the in-
terim dividend was increased from 4 p.c.
to 4i p.c.
At the time of writing the 20s. shares
were selling at 38s. to show a dividend
yield of 4.7 p.c. on the assumption that
the dividend rate would be 9 p.c. for
1962-63.
There is clearly a case for comparing
this stock with Rothmans, whose shares
are currently selling around 375. to show
a dividend yield of 5.4 p.c. from the in-
dicated 20 p.c. dividend. Even if the
market is assuming that Philip Morris
will pay 10 p.c. this year, it would still
be priced at Is. higher than Rothmans
on a dividend yield basis.
This difference can be accounted for
by the fact that expected earnings of
Philip Morris for 1962-63 should be of
the order of 4s. 7d. per share to show a
price/earnings ratio of 8.3 times, while
Rothmans’ expected earnings would, on
the basis of the interim announcement,
seem likely to be of the order of 3s. 81d.
per share to show a price/earnings ratio
of 10.0 times.
TTaving established that Philip Morris is
cheaper on an earnings basis and
Rothmans on a dividend basis, it is as
well to examine historical ratios to try
to form some estimate of possible future
trends.
It is important here to remember that
although Philip Morris does not appear
to have indicated the size of its share of
the Australian cigarette market, this share
is clearly very much less than Rothmans’,
which claim 50 p.c. This could mean that
quite substantial increases in sales of
Philip Morris cigarettes could occur if it
obtains only another 1 p.c. of the total
market.
Even on the rather sketchy information
available it seems likely that the current
year’s sales will be three times greater
than the sales of 1957-58.
Philip Morris commenced production
rather earlier than Rothmans and showed
its first profit in 1956-57 as compared
with Rothmans’ first profit in 1957-58.
But Rothmans’ initial earnings were four
times greater than Philip Morris’ although
its issued ordinary capital was only 44
p.c. of Philip Morris’. Even the total
capital employed was only 88 p.c. of that
of Philip Morris.
If we compare the percentage of net
profit before tax, depreciation and in-
terest on borrowings to total capital of
the two companies, the following figures
emerge:—
PERCENTAGES
Year to
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Philip Morris 15.1 23.1 20.1 16.4 23.0
Rothmans 31.0 50.8 58.2 56.0 32.7
As the companies commenced opera-
tions almost at the same time, problems
of differing costs of assets do not arise
to any extent, so the figures can be com-
pared directly. They suggest that Roth-
mans has made better use of the capital
available to it and is still doing so. Per-
haps this difference could be due to the
fact that Philip Morris may still have
some excess capacity, but, of course, it
could be that Philip Morris incurs some
operating costs which are not incurred
by Rothmans.
llThen comparing the situation from the
investor’s viewpoint, trends in earn-
ings and dividends per share become
important. Philip Morris has no gearing
while Rothmans has borrowed exten-
sively. For the purposes of comparison,
the following table shows earnings (in
shillings) per 20s. of ordinary capital af-
ter making adjustments in the case of
Rothmans for the bonus content of the
three cash issues at par which have been
made during the period:—•
SHILLINGS
Year to
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Philip Morris 2.12 2.78 2.62 2.16 3.16
Rothmans 3.44 4.20 6.68 6.76 6.60
These figures show the usual picture
when a comparison is made between a
high geared and a low geared company
in relatively prosperous times. They also
indicate that the growth in per share
earnings of Rothmans was far greater
than that of Philip Morris. They also
indicate that despite the short history a
cyclical pattern could have set in, par-
ticularly in the case of Philip Morris
whose per share earnings rose for three
years, then declined for three years and
now appear to have moved upwards for
two years, namely 1961-62 and 1962-63.
Dividends per 20s. ordinary capital of
1958 have moved as follows, again after
making the same adjustments as for
earnings:—
SHILLINGS
Year to
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Philip Morris 1-2 1.2 1.6
Rothmans 2.0 3.6 5.6 6.3
These figures show that Rothmans’ his-
tory over the last five years is certainly
more attractive so far as its profit earn-
ing capacity is concerned. Philip Morris
has not shown the same capacity, nor
has it been able to capture anywhere
near the same slice of the market. Never-
theless, Philip Morris is very soundly
based judging by its balance sheet struc-
ture and the high retention rates suggest
that benefits will continue to come to
shareholders in the form of rising divi-
dend rates. But it must be pointed out
that over the last three years Philip Mor-
ris has distributed 50 p.c. of its earnings,
while Rothmans has distributed only
42 p.c.
Tt is suggested that there is really no
good case for paying more for Philip
Morris’ 20s. shares than for Rothmans’
10s. shares until such time as Philip
Morris has clearly established the 10 p.c.
rate. There can be little doubt that the
cigarette market is highly competitive
the advertising campaigns alone of the
major producers indicate this. The con-
sumer today seems ready to change his
brand of cigarette, and allegiance to any
one brand is probably declining.
The shares in both companies would
seem to be good buying at around the
immediate dividend yield of 5 p.c. This
leads to the conclusion that Rothmans
should be priced higher than Philip Mor-
ris instead of vice versa.
PHILIP MORRIS. (AUSTRALIA) LTD
(£,000)
Year to June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 1091 1458 1498 1661 1941
Current liabilities 71 198 257 359 459
Working capital 1020 1260 1241 1302 1482
Fixed assets 765 762 710 724 725
Investments 200 200 150
Intangibles 55 55 55
Total capital 1840 2077 2206 2226 2357
Represented by:
Ordinary capital 1700 1700 1700 1700 1700
Reserves 140 377 506 526 657
Operating inconae 250 425 416 362 514
Earnings 180 237 222 184 269
Dividends 102 102 136
Surplus 180 237 120 82 133
Earnings per
share (a) 2.12 2.78 2.62 2.16 3.16
Dividends per
share (a) 1.20 1.20 1.60
Operating income p.c.
total capital 15.1 23.1 20.1 16.4 23.0
Dividend yield (b) 4.7 5.8 5.9
Earnings yield (b) 11.2 9.6 10.2 10.4 11.8
(a) shillings.
(b) based on last sale month accounts presented.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Wunderlich’s Unshaken Stability
Startling and long-hidden information
was scarcely awaited from the first
properly consolidated accounts of build-
ing materials maker Wunderlich Ltd.
Apart from such now old-fashioned
quirks as concealing the year-by-year tax
provision, the group has grown fairly
revelatory during a history dating back
to 1887.
No mysterious accession to assets
could be expected, nor any wild growth
in soon-to-be-bountiful reserves. A glance
at the accounts summary will display
little but a steady accretion of resources.
The newly consolidated figures are all of
a piece with the parent details published
up to 1962.
Nevertheless their appearance was ac-
tually preceded by a disturbing and un-
usual flurry on the exchanges. After all,
the company extends widely through the
still vulnerable building industry. Some
shareholders must have been worrying
about the latest year’s earnings.
For as recently as mid-March, lacking
any guidance from an interim report, a
few nervous sellers sent the 20s. shares
down from 625. 9d. to 58s. 6d. The
option market also reflected this measure
of nervousness.
It all turned out to be unjustified,
since the year to February 28 produced
a peak profit, though directors did not
attempt to conceal the trading difficul-
ties they had overcome.
Perhaps the tone of their report has
kept the sharemarkets prudently hesitant.
Prices continue close to 595., at which
level they yield 4.2 p.c. on the 12T p.c.
dividend paid since 1956.
T|espite the accounts’ full evidence of
unshaken stability, it does not seem
that this year’s earlier peaks will be too
speedily overtaken. A high at 675. has
been touched, while last year, with build-
ing activities even more in question, saw
a peak of 735.
Uncertainties from other companies
doubtless rub off here. Directors, as well,
sowed their own particular brand of dis-
cretion. But the shares should not be
overlong disdained.
Investors can quite easily discover that
the company has exercised great skill in
widening its connections with the build-
ing industry as a whole. A well-estab-
lished elder organisation might have been
excused if it had only forged efficiently
ahead in traditional operations.
Wunderlich, though, has never given
the impression of remaining immersed
in the ceramic products range roof-
ing tiles, veneer, ventilators, earthenware
pipes with which it is usually as-
sociated.
The group is efficiently diversified
through asbestos-cement and the contem-
porary range of building metalwork. As
recently as 1958, the Villawood (Syd-
ney) factory began to make stainless
steel sinks, metal acoustic tiles, and alu-
minium windows and curtain walls. These
latter are made under licence from Cup-
pies Corporation, an Alcoa (USA) sub-
sidiary.
Then in 1960 came a considerable
joint effort with Humes Ltd Wunder-
lich Humes Asbestos Pipes Pty Ltd
to manufacture and market asbestos
cement pipes. Plants in both Sydney and
Melbourne cater for water supply, sew-
erage, drainage and irrigation require-
ments.
balance-sheet here indicates a
capital investment of £500,000,
which at present is causing directors some
worry. A loss of £193,495 for the year
to October 31 last brought accumulated
losses to £209,829.
The annual report truly remarks: “It
was inevitable that considerable estab-
lishment expenditure would be incurred
because of starting-up problems and the
difficulty of securing a share of the
tightly held market.” It is forced to add
that “sales volume is not yet at a satis-
factory level.”
Overall operations found trade com-
petition greatly intensified during 1962-
63. The excellent achieved profit must
be viewed in the light of reduced mar-
gins. On a roughly maintained sales vol-
ume, “improvements in manufacturing
methods and other economies contributed
to the increase in total earnings.”
In their summing-up of general con-
ditions the directors do not permit them-
selves much cheer. “The company’s fut-
ure prospects depend to a large extent
on the requirements of domestic building.
The recent small reduction in interest
rates is a welcome recognition by the
Government that a more generous credit
policy is essential. This is particularly so
while land values remain at a high level,
with little real prospect of any sub-
stantial reduction.”
That kind of gloomy undertone should
not encourage investors to forget the
group’s organisational and financial ripe-
ness. Both have yielded fine results in
the past. Both are ready to respond to
a re-invigorated building trade.
A part from the Humes venture, Wun-
derlich runs 17 factories in all Aus-
tralian States. Six are concerned with
architectural metalwork, aluminium
windows and curtain walling; three with
asbestos-cement products; five with terra-
cotta roofing tiles; two with ceramics;
and one with stoneware pipes.
The company is associated with the
parallel H. L. Brisbane and Wunderlich,
of Perth, and owns Staplefield Plastics
Pty, of Sydney.
Earnings for 1962-63 had to stand
against a rather higher capital, following
completion of calls on the one-for-four
premium issue made in March, 1961.
Earning rate was thereby cut back from
19 to 16.6 p.c.
Balance-sheet items were in no way
impaired, as the table manifests.
Reserves compose general, <£l mil-
lion; share premium, £590,819; and un-
divided profits £532,538. Consolida-
tion saw goodwill written off against
general reserve, which also gained a con-
tingencies provision and £230,212 from
the undistributed profits. Share premiums
took £306,324 from general reserve and
£86,041 from the 1961 issue.
The loan liability consists of an AMP
mortgage secured against certain free-
holds and originally totalled £560,000,
fully used to finance plant extensions.
In the parade of strength, overdraft
is a mere £73,438, while trade and other
creditors £511,360 can be set opposite
debtors of £1,177,187.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
Consoli-
dated
February 28 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 2365 2555 2719 2734 2935
Less current
liabilities 1268 1472 1703 1393 1455
Working capital 1097 1083 1016 1341 1529
Fixed Assets 2163 2266 2494 2430 2363
Investments 217 217 199 564 651
Intangibles 74 74 74 74
3551 3640 3783 4409 4548
Represented by:
Preference capital 160 160 160 160 160
Ordinary capital 1326 1328 1377 1765 1306
Reserves 1550 1648 1753 2000 2123
Loan Fund? 515 504 493 482 459
3551 3640 3783 4409 4548
Depreciation 278 299 317 342
Taxation 251
Net profit 271 276 289 281 311
Net profit for ords 260 265 278 270 300
Ordinary dividend 166 166 172 195 226
Syrplue 94 99 106 75 74
Earning rate p.c 19.6 19.9 20.2 19.0 16.6
Dividend rate p.c. 12£ 12£ 12J, 12p
Dividend yield (a) 4.3 3.4 4.4 3.7 n.a.
Price/'earnings
ratio (a) 15.0 18.5 14,3 17.0 n.a.
(a) End of May, month accounts presented.


ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Old, J. A. M. Minnett, M. A Gleeson-
White, lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger
Members of the Sydney Stock Erc.hangt
L. L. de Green, S. R. Ravenscroft.
R. V Betts
Non-Member Partners
13-15 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
Tel. 25 5711, 25 6011. Telex 5243
Branches at:
150 Queen St., Melbourne
359-369 Queen St., Brisbane
Cables & Telegrams:
‘Orderley’ Sydney. Melbourne & Brisbane
DUNCAN'S HOLDINGS LTD
Not Much Light in the Wood
HThe ailments and complaints of Dun-
can’s Holdings Ltd are very largely
those of the timber industry as a whole
and not merely a question of the internal
organisation of one particular company.
They are unlikely to be cured merely
by a much-wished-for stimulus in home
building or by any temporary alleviation
of imports competition with controls and
quotas.
This huge and nationally important
industry is wrestling with everything from
substitute products to a final awareness
that copious imports will always remain
necessary for Australia's development.
Solutions do not come easily.
All that preamble can bring scant com-
fort to Duncan's shareholders, who in
March, as a culmination of several drab
years, had at last to face omission of
their interim dividend. In a company not
without solidity and resources, reduced
earnings forced a defence of liquidity.
Directors made no bones about admit-
ting that hints of improvement thrown
out in the 1961-62 annual report simply
didn't eventuate. “Activity in the home
building industry remained at a depressed
level . . . The benefits anticipated from
the imposition of temporary quantitive
import restrictions in June, 1962, did
not materialise”, they stated.
No encouragement for the months
ahead could be added. The general posi-
tion still remains gloomy, despite an
increase in the local output of sawn
timber as disclosed in the latest produc-
tion statistics.
So the 10s. shares, which have long
languished below par, continue to hover
around a low point at 4s. There has been
an unarrested drift from the 6s. 9d.
ruling when the last accounts were releas-
ed in November.
'll/I’any existing shareholders doubtless
■*•*■*■ realise, philosophically, the difficult
haul confronting both industry and com-
pany, comforting themselves with a net
tangible assets backing which, though
losing 1 Id. last year, still stands at
12s. 7d. a share. Otherwise it’s hard on
any grounds to recommend a purchase.
For present qualms must still be re-
solved in the light of 1961-62 results
a massive profit retreat from £74,344 to
£22,447. Directors at that time valiantly
decided to hold the 6 p.c. dividend paid
since 1960, but had to take £16,037 from
reserves to meet the commitment.
The accounts summary displays a not
unhealthy reserves position. Erosion at
last year’s scale, however, cannot go on.
The same Judgment applies to the mark-
ed decline in working capital initiated
in 1960.
Overdraft took only a small reduction
of £15,112 to £215,469 over 1961-62,
while stocks were cut by £62,631 to
£391,119.
long-term liability is of a very
A special nature. In 1958, the company
secured a £300,000 loan from the Inter-
national Finance Corporation, specifically
to modernise its sawmills and to develop
a Brisbane retail outlet. Each project has
been completed.
The 10-year loan called for repayment
of principal to begin on December 1,
1961, and thenceforward at six-monthly
intervals. Individual repayments are about
£22,500. The IFC may exercise a con-
ditional option to 600,000 ordinary shares
at par any time before October 31,
1967.
Duncan’s, through a broad collection of
subsidiaries, touches all sections of the
timber industry milling, marketing,
importing and exporting. The group with-
drew from retailing in NSW during 1954-
55, but is still the State’s biggest whole-
sale distributor.
Marketing constitutes the nub of all
Duncan’s reverses, since sawmilling off-
shoots still apparently operate profit-
ably. But marketing, naturally, takes the
brunt of substitute materials and imports
competition.
Directors neatly summarised the trends
of all recent trading in their last report:
“During the year the marketing subsi-
diaries were successful in disposing of
the entire output of the group, although
the average price obtained was below
that of the previous year. In effect, our
share of the market has been retained,
and from the sales figures applicable to
the year it is evident that a slight gain
in our share of the market has been
made.”
Be that as it may, directors must still
be hoping to correct local disabilities with
exports and will be thankful for resump-
tion of a Japanese pine-log contract. A
more recent contract has been won to
supply sleepers to an engineering con-
tractor in Japan. The first shipment went
in April and further shipments will go
regularly over the next two years.
“There is a tremendous potential
market for Australian timber in Japan
and every endeavor is being made to
promote our product there,” directors
observe.
When all is said about the trials of
this one company, a return must briefly
be made to the parlous state of the
industry in which it is engaged. Essen-
tial to Australia’s future, all elements
cry for re-organisation and rationalisa-
tion.
Everything, from the uneconomic mul-
titude of small units (especially in mil-
ling) to royalties and transport costs
and to the restrictive alliances of millers
and merchants, requires sorting out.
Most members of the industry under-
stand this. Perhaps a more vivid sense
of urgency was conveyed by the fifth
All-Australia Timber Congress lately held
in Adelaide.
Until the problems are tackled in their
entirety, there’s no quick prosperity for
any of the companies.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 1269 1395 1328 1191 1132
Less current
liabilities 707 811 677 590 606
Working capital 562 584 651 601 526
Investments 90 98 53 55 48
Fixed assets 398 400 412 456 482
Intangibles 61 61 61 60 70
1111 1143 1177 1172 1126
Deferred liabilities 304 302 293 248 248
Ordinary capital 641 641 641 641 641
Reserves 166 200 243 283 237
1111 1143 1177 1172 1126
Depreciation 43 46 53 58 63
Taxation 21 19 25 45 10
Net Profit 65 46 80 74 22
Ordinary dividend 26 13 38 38 38
Surplus 39 33 42 36 (b)
Earning rate 10.2 7.2 12.5 11.6 3.5
Dividend rate 4 2 6 6 6
Dividend yield (a) 6.9 3.5 8.6 10.2 8.9
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 5.6 7.8 5.6 5.1 19.2
(a) End of November, montfi accounts presented.
(b) £16,000 brought from reserves to meet dividend.


HOW ARP SMITH LTD.
Strength from Investments
/Consolidated accounts of Howard
Smith Ltd incorporate the sub-
sidiaries Australian Steamships Pty, Aus-
tralian Sugar Cos. Pty, Melbourne Steam-
ship Cos. Ltd, Hobson’s Bay Dock and
Engineering Cos. Pty, Hodge Engineering
Cos. Pty, Cockburn Engineering Pty, and
The Invincible Colliery Ltd.
The trading profit of this group was
virtually unchanged at £373,334 in
the calendar and financial year 1962
(£372,468 in 1961).
The improvement in net profit as
shown in the accompanying table was
due primarily to a rise in investment
income from £291,553 to £316,908.
Of the latter figure, £72,284 derives
from unlisted investments.
The investments include substantial
shareholdings in Coal and Allied In-
dustries Ltd, BHP, A. Goninan, Southern
Portland Cement and Mt. Isa Mines Ltd.
In addition to a capital profit from
the sale of fixed assets of £52,448,
group shareholders’ funds were augment-
ed by £207,767 profit on the sale of
investments.
This was reinvested at a “much more
favorable return” according to the act-
ing chairman (Mr J. G. Crowther) speak-
ing at the annual meeting in April.
Potential income from investments is im-
proved thereby.
The company’s original business of inter-
state shipping operator is maintain-
ed, although in 1962 only a small profit
was made and no dividend paid. Tugs
and vessels under charter do show a
reasonable profit, but earnings from the
rest of the fleet are unsatisfactory.
Howard Smith directors say there is
a strong possibility of an improvement
in cargo movement round the coast, and,
of course, the shipping subsidiary is the
base for ancillary services such as ship-
ping agencies and stevedoring which pro-
duce satisfactory returns.
Stevedoring activities were extended
in South Australia and commenced in
Western Australia in 1962, in associa-
tion with James Patrick. Results to date
are described as “very promising.”
The future of Invincible Colliery (65
p.c. owned) is causing some concern
owing to the increasing dieselisation of
the NSW Railways.
The sugar subsidiary should be in a
much more favorable position this year
with improvement in sugar prices.
Between 1927 and 1960 there were
no capital changes, but in April 1960
ordinary capital was lifted from £2
million to £3 million by a one-for-
four bonus and a one-for-four issue at
10s. premium.
Melbourne Steamship Cos. Ltd was
taken over in 1961, and former minority
shareholders in Australian Sugar were
bought out, raising issued ordinary
capital to £3,420,811 by the latest
balance date.
The passage of time has helped to
disguise the poor return from assets of
the group. The net tangible assets back-
ing of 45s. 2d. per 20s. share is re-
inforced by the excess of market over
book value of listed investments amount-
ing to 16s. 5d. per share.
The latest profit, after allowing for
preference interests, represents only 4.8
p.c. on shareholders’ funds.
Obviously the shareholders would do
better from a break up of assets either
by the present management or by some
company effecting a takeover of Howard
Smith, along the lines laid down by
Huddart Parker or Mt. Lyell.
At present levels of 47s. 6d. the 20s.
shares return 4.2 p.c. from the 10 p.c.
dividend which is just covered by 1962
profits. Purchasers at this price should
have plenty of opportunity to pocket
a profit within 12 months, as the market
periodically pays tribute to the group’s
assets strength, notwithstanding poor
earnings performance.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
December 31 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 1673 1754 1153 1322 734
Less current
liabilities 2712 2461 1398 1904 1501
Working Capital -1034 -707 -240 -582 -767
Investments 1305 1353 3747 4243 4584
Fixed assets 6707 7284 3776 4119 4243
6978 7930 7283 7780 8060
Deferred Liabilities 493 901 224 228 28
Outside shareholders 656 1252 183 92 48
Preference capital 250 250 250 250 250
Ordinary capital 2000 2000 3000 3401 3421
Reserves 3579 3527 3626 3309 4313
6978 7930 7283 7780 8060
Depreciation 369 386 211 220 244
Taxation 39 34 39 63 43
Net profit 197 227 184 339 388
Net profit for ords. 182 212 169 324 373
Dividends 160 160 208 325 342
Surplus 22 52 -39 -1 31
Earning rate 9.1 10.6 7.0 10.1 10.1
Dividend rate 8 .8 8 10 10
Dividend yield 4.0 2.9 4.0 3.9 4.4
Price/earnings ratio 22.2 26.3 28.5 25.5 20.0
High price 38/- 60/6 70/- 57/9 55/-
Low price 31/9 34/6 33/6 36/6 44/-
ONE TO BUY
Softgoods - Furniture Prospect
buy the shares of a wholesale soft-
goods importer might seem chancey
in these present days of trading dis-
turbance and hesitation. Nevertheless,
in this as in all stock evaluation, success
and efficiency are two criteria which
can still be applied.
On these very pertinent grounds E. A.
Greenwood Ltd. deserves attention, for
it has been exhibiting both characteristics,
particularly over the last three years.
The curious need not be put off by
the company’s smallness either.
Paid capital now stands at £128,579
and even that has only just been swollen
from £IOO,OOO by the takeover of an
ailing house furnisher, A. Hall and Cos.
The combination, softgoods and fur-
niture, could prove risky under many
hands. But Greenwood has turned out
earning rates at 46.3, 35.7 and 36.0 p.c.
for the past three years. At the be-
ginning of March directors were able
to say that the December half-year saw
sales up by 23 p.c. and group profits
showed a “satisfactory increase.”
Neither the sales nor trading results
of A. Hall were taken into account.
Greenwood’s ss. shares are selling
around 10s. 6d. to yield 6 p.c. on the
12i p.c. dividend easily held since 1960.
Earnings yield is a high 17.1 p. c . on
1961-62 profit levels.
Prices touched 12s. 7d. eavlier this
year, after a peak at 13s. 3d. in 1962.
Some erosion has lately been evident as
batches of the takeover , shares, issued
in February, have passed through the
market. It is understood that these dis-
posals are practically finished, so modest
price advances could again be in order.
In terms of yield, at any rate, pre-
vailing levels repay speculative attention.
Group earnings moved up smoothly
in 1961-62 from £32,098 to £35,955.
As at June 30 last, capital was sup-
ported by general reserve at £6000 and
undistributed profits £73,464.
No additional funds are likely to be
required for some little time. The last
issue, one-for-four at par, was made in
November, 1960.
Directors expect the acquisition of
A. Hall to permit valuable diversifica-
tion into the retail furnishing trade. They
have found that a good deal of re-
organisation and streamlining is neces-
sary, but are hopeful of a successful
integration.
Should this not be thoroughly ac-
complished in about a year, there would
not be much difficulty of re-sale without
any loss. But it seems far more probable
that Greenwood’s managerial skill will
prove effective here.
The shares are clearly not a dramatic
buy, yet they are well backed (net
tangible assets about 8s. a share) and
should continue to furnish a favorable
return.


HELP
LEGACY
all the year
round
BOILER PLANT FOR CEYLON
A contract to supply the National
** Textile Corporation of Ceylon with
£200,000 worth of boiler plant and
power generating equipment has been
awarded to Presha Engineering Pty Ltd,
a Victorian firm.
The company won the contract in the
face of strong competition from Europe,
Britain, Japan and Canada.
UNIVERSITY APPOINTMENTS
UNIVERSITY OF MELBOURNE
Department of Economics
Applications are invited for the positions of
SENIOR LECTURER and LECTURER IN
ECONOMICS.
Qualifications in labour economics, micro-
economics, econometrics and economic statistics
would be desirable but applications would be
welcomed from candidates with other interests.
The salary range for a Senior Lecturer is
£A2,450 x £AilO to £A3,000 per annum, and
for a Lecturer is £A1,650 x £AIOS to £A2,450
per annum. Commencing salaries will be deter-
mined according to qualifications and experience.
Conditions of appointment and further informa-
tion may be obtained from THE REGISTRAR,
UNIVERSITY OF MELBOURNE, PARKVILLE, N. 2.,
VICTORIA, ond applications should reach him
by 15th August, 1963.
F. H. JOHNSTON, Registrar.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: LAUREL IVY ERICKSON, late Of 266
Pennant Hills Road, Carlingford. TAKE
NOTICE that ALLEN JOSEPH ERICKSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2298 of
1962 on the grounds of separation and deser-
tion. If you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
12th July, 1963, and obtain a copy of the
Petition and Notice of Petition without
charge from T. G. D. MARSHALL, LANDERS
AND CO., Solicitors, of 251-253 George Street,
Sydney, or HARRIS, WHEELER WILLIAMS
AND McKENZIE, Solicitors, of 43 Bolton
Street, Newcastle. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
TO: ROBERT JOHN CLARK, late of Corner
of Brooks Street and Alexander Parade,
Arcadia Vale, in the State of New South
Wales. TAKE NOTICE that NORMA CLARK
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1579 of
1963 on the ground of desertion. If you wish
to defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, by the Bth of July, 1963, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. BRA YE CRAGG COHEN &
CO., Solicitors, 26 Bolton Street, Newcastle.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: MARK EDMUND GORHAM, late of 36
Tara Street, Sylvania, Sydney. TAKE NOTICE
that HAZEL EDITH GORHAM (nee Ross) has
filed a Petition for dissolution of marriage
No. 2437 of 1962 on the ground of separation.
If you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 15th
day of July, 1963, and obtain a copy of the
Petition and Notice of Petition without charge
from McLEOD WHITE, McKEON & CO.,
Solicitors, of 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
The Bitter and the Sweet
TpHE saddest story of the week concerns
the person who sold Rosella shares
at 30s. a few hours before the Unilever
takeover bid of 455. cash per share was
announced. The closing sale for that
day was 435.
This has not been the only takeover
offer that has surprised the market.
Australian Silknit had been drifting
around 7s. when O’Connell Corporation,
which only a short while ago had the
less imposing name of Cleo Cladders,
made its cash takeover offer.
But the fall in the world sugar price
has been of more consequence to the
market than the above events. Surely
no reason for panic as it is still only a
little less than £lOO sterling per ton
a far cry from the £25 sterling per ton
a year ago.
Doggedly, I will continue to hold
those Fairymead shares until the direc-
tors issue last year’s annual report. The
delay is no longer a joke. It would seem
reasonable to expect the report out
within five months of the close of the
financial year. But alas, still silence from
the directors in this respect.
Such stirring events as the sugar fire
at Townsville, a post-war record price of
£lOl sterling per ton, and the huge
three-year contract with Japan are play-
ing havoc with my constitution!
Sugar is not the only primary product
in Queensland in which I have an
interest. Amagraze is still in the port-
folio.
Another meat company also thriving
in the export market is Anderson Meat.
On its past record the market seems
quite justified in pricing the shares at
only three-quarters of the par value.
Following a heavy loss in 1960, it was
still carrying forward a £91,000 loss
at the close of the 1962 accounts.
Since then business must really have
boomed for the interim report stated
that profit for the first six months more
than covered this loss. It seems likely
that profit will be as good for the
current six months. The resulting earn-
ing rate of 25 p.c. for 62/63 should
cause a very jagged point in the earn-
ings chart and the share price. This
reasoning was just too late, for the rising
market beat my order for 400 at 15s.
limit.
I was also too slow with Salamander
Salt. The offer by the Degotardi group
has apparently been successful. Keeping
in mind that every penny rise means
threepence difference after the recon-
struction, a market price of Is. 7d. would
have been tempting. But, alas, the share
price moved up to Is. 9d.
If you can’t get something going up,
you may as well catch it on the down
swing. Hence, after the earlier frustra-
tions, my purchase of 800 Formfits at
10s. 6d.
The market got right out of control
early this year when the share price of
this bra and girdle manufacturer was up-
lifted to 14s. 3d. Earning rate in the last
two years had gone from 10 p.c. to
23 p.c. and more than one investor had
subsequently applied the “growth stock”
tag to the company. What a rude shock
it was when the interim report sobered
those enthusiasts. Profit had only re-
mained steady and it was to be re-
membered that this was on slightly
increased capital.
The tumble to 10s. 6d. seemed too
severe, especially for a stock that
genuinely does appear to have medium
term growth prospects.
Financing this purchase and reducing
the debit balance on my account to <£76
was the sale of 3000 LNC ctg. shares.
It is not hard to accept a profit of £73.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
3000 LNC ctg., 4/- £575
BOUGHT
800 Formfit, 10/6 £431
All in all, the portfolio has behaved
very well while most of the market has
been sulking.
My portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1500 Hanimex 23/5/62 6/9 9/1
1000 Courtaulds 0p. (14/-) 14/1/63 2/1
400 Fairymead 21/1/63 41/ 52/
600 David Jones notes 21/1/63 17/3 19/7
2000 Alliance 1/2/63 1/1 9d.
1000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4 4/-
200 Philip Morris 14/2/63 34/6 37/6
400 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3 14/6
600 A. V. Jennings 28/2/63 9/10 10/-
1000 Woodside ctg. 14/3/63 4/8 2/9
2000 Gen. Ind. op. (8/9) 20/3/63 lid.
1000 Aust. Factors, Vic. 27/3/63 8/6 9/6
500 Amagraze 8/4/63 7/6 7/6
1000 ANI 18/4/63 4/1 4/6
2000 Felt rts. 24/4/63 3/3 3/2
200 W. Adams 9/5/63 42/3 45/6
1000 Functional 7/5/63 8/3 8/9
800 Ampol (short) 15/5/63 9/10 9/6
400 Borg Warner 21/5/63 25/ 25/6
200 Carpet Manu. 23/5/63 23/ 22/9
800 Formfit 30/5/63 10/6 10/6


People are talking
about the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mai!)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
107 Fleef Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick \/ whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? j~~j or
A renewal subscription? □
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
months subscription to THE BULLETIN.
Perhaps this is the first issue ofTHE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? More
and more people are buying the "new look"
BULLETIN for its features, its overseas and local news,
its columnists like Boadicea, Discus, Cellarmaster, its
reviews of films, books, music and theatre. If you
want to keep abreast of news and significant events
in Australia and abroadTHE BULLETIN is a must. In
additionTHE BULLETIN will feature this year a series
of four-page full color features on Australian art and
other subjects. So why not fill in the form at left and
be sure of your copy each week?
Th.e
Bulletin
A magazine of facts and ideas est. 1880
ON SALE WEDNESDAYS 2/-
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 748
ACROSS
I—The burden of responsibility is on you and me. (4)
3—A lover to cause vexation to some insect. (7)
10— Nothing to a figure of grain. (5)
11— Finish of encountered Rhode Island tea is a reason
for being very sick. (12)
12— Sam misses a go if backed with industrial fog. (4)
-4i T • , i ~ T . , , v
14— Linda has 45 inches to blow. (7)
15— Goddess makes an operatic number end badly. (7)
17—Havelock is to measure. (5)
19—Gerald, who once played tennis for Australia, con-
tinues with a line of quick
comic talk. (9)
21— Ironic people make Isis start.
(9)
22 Anne’s running back for a
medicinal plant. (5)
23 Even sometimes associated
with such street levels. (7)
27—Melody on top according to
the R.A.A.F. chief. (3, 4)
29 Relative to one goddess. (4)
30— I return a Soho adaptation
for any one of the valiant
Viennese. (8, 4)
31— A prison chamber by which
I name the lower strings. (5)
32 Building up a stock for
nothing in cordage. (7)
33 They poison as a correspond-
ing afterthought. (4)
DOWN
1— Contradiction of 2-down? (11)
2 The scoundrel can be found
in these garments. (12)
4 Fauna insect runs off to
Gretna Green. (9)
5 The Lorelei laughs too
much for this girl. (5)
6 Reorganised session in up-
roar. (9)
7 Apple sat up with mother.
(5)
8— About one Grand National
rule. (5)
9 Apparatus for reducing dis-
locations of the shoulder is
in the first person and is in
the infinitive. (4)
13—Run Shingle before night-
fall's two-up. (4, 3,5)
16—Our Anne ends confusedly
with nine columns. (11)
18—Clothing litigation initiated
by Prokofiev? (5, 4)
20—Devil may be thus described
as madness heartens this Aus-
tralian. (9)
24 The man with the stop-watch
is not without merit. (5)
25 Vessels for liquids by way of
pounds, shillings and no
pence. (5)
26 Bestial character had a seat
over a year. (5)
28—About no place for a quick
divorce? (14)
Solution to Crossword No. 747


V
fe#
m
* saw
Wlm
2T,
>
WS **s£«*s!
fc j
wmmw
*«.
~
"4
i
K&3i
: c
for gifts that speak
louder than words...
Australia
can
make it...
£l5O million worth
of Electrical Appliances
a year! Not all are wrapped in fancy
paper and satin ribbon, but aren’t they
just as welcome whichever way they
come? Think of the work they save you
... of the entertainment and extra
comforts they bring you! Australia’s
Electrical Industry produces an almost
endless variety of modern, efficient
appliances—often exceeding in quality
and value the best the world can offer.
The industry pays its 45,000 employees
£47 million a year in wages, so, directly
or indirectly, the money you spend on
these Australian-made appliances helps
create job security and a better standard
of living for other Australians —some your
friends and neighbours. That’s why it is
important to look for
the Australian-made
label wherever you
shop. You help other
Australians. What
they buy benefits you.
A
l
AUSTRALIAN
Wj
The wise Australian buys Australian
Inserted by:


The world’s finest tobacco is at your
sv
I
V \-
m
%
1
d
%
ONLY VIRGINIA
PLAIN
