

The Bulletin
mfibasafe&fl^fr
AN AUSTRALIAN JOU
: AND OPINION - EST. 1880
Paul VI


• •
-
A
M
. r
BHW
■
wmm
HB H
E ■
mm
:
-
-
*<tB?«lSs**
-VINEYAR&S -C
.c
.
'MM
. :
1 n
MSS
■ :,i
■
SIM
’■
■s
SELECTED
aorruNQ
m
Bp I /-■;.. saw
C/WAR R A
CLARET
UNDEMAN IT? /
SYDNEY. /
W wtT CONtiNtS / ?
§|i lOt. « Ft. OSS, // ..
fegsr;^
-.-."Zssr^L.
•5
■
<
■ I i
« •
■
a
s*i
®5
ss;
'• ;r -"’~£;
W4 sl ci
selected vinta g
>'00., ; fe of mem
—rr '
A PRODUCT or UNMf*p
hunter rivER VINE.IA (
HOCK
u».» PiDiw* »F AvtWli u
ltd -
contents )PT6FCO»
A noble wine for a noble roast! Cawarra Claret, the most
popular red table wine in Australia, was selected exclusively
by the French Olympic Team on their visit to Melbourne.
When you choose white wine order Cawarra Riesling,
dry, delicate and delightful in every way.
/tn/de
marts
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS


National Notebook
Without Comment
Tn the middle of the Profumo case last
A week (not to mention Vassall, Burgess,
Maclean, Fuchs, Pontecorvo, Nunn May,
etc., etc., etc.) one Sydney afternoon
paper published this news item: “The
Australian Security Intelligence Organisa-
tion is due for its biggest shake-up since
the ‘Red scare’ of 1952. The reshuffle
will aim at improving ASIO operations
to British standards . .
The Senator and the Manatee
Senator Pat Kennelly is not willing
to organise an expedition to the
jungles of Guatemala to capture manatees
for his beloved Albert Park Lake in Mel-
bourne. He said so quite definitely last
week. The manatee is a fresh-water
dugong which feeds on weeds in lagoons
and lakes in South America. According
to one authority, two manatees will
devour a mile strip of weed, 22 feet wide,
in 17 weeks. It was suggested that a
couple of the creatures (Trichichus
manatus) would rid Albert Park of the
weeds which have cost Senator Kennelly
so many sleepless nights.
The Senator had obvi-
ously given the matter
some thought, however.
He admitted he had con-
sidered the manatee sev-
eral years ago, but drop-
ped the idea. “Apart
from the cost of an ex-
pedition to get them, there would be
problems of quarantine regulations,” he
said. “Even if you could get them into
the lake, what are you going to do to
stop them interfering with sailing and
swimming— corral them, put a chain on
them, take them out at night and on
Sundays?”
The manatee, up to 13ft long and
with an inch-thick hide which sometimes
deflects bullets, would certainly be a
hazard on Albert Park Lake. “If they
lived in the Murray or the Hume Weir,
it would be different,” Senator Kennelly
observed, “but definitely not in Albert
Park.”
Anyway, the Senator is fairly satisfied
with the progress in killing the weeds
with chemicals, even if visitors find the
stench of the dead fish fairly hard to
take.
Pioneers
Tf all goes according to plan, the re-
mains of several hundred pioneers
will be transferred to a section of the
lawn cemetery being established near
Liverpool, outside of Sydney. Pine Grove
Memorial Park, which is establishing the
cemetery, has been in touch with the
Historical Society of Australia.
It is estimated that there are about
1000 historic graves in the Sydney area.
The society feels that eventually these
graves will be lost forever as older
cemeteries are abandoned or taken over
for other purposes. The old Parramatta
cemetery, which contains several graves
of interest, is to become a park.
The Memorial Park people have offer-
ed to subsidise the cost of transferring
historic graves. This might run to
£50,000. Before the section can be
established, permission to re-inter will be
sought from descendants.
Ready-mixed Martini
VTew South Wales’s liberalised liquor
laws have been in operation some
three months now. Under the new
rulings, restaurants, hitherto limited
to serving Australian wines and beers,
may indulge their diners to the extent of
serving any wines and also cocktails and
hard liquor in small bottles.
Mr Henry Corboz, who runs a string
of three Sydney restaurants, allowed that
there was some demand for French
wines; chiefly from those
who might wish to im-
press a guest (or client
if the occasion is an
expense account shindig).
But our own wines
were more than holding
their own.
About the scheme to serve aperitifs,
cocktails and liqueurs in bottles he was
less than enthusiastic. In fact he was
downright incensed. “How,” he deman-
ded, “can we serve a martini to a cus-
tomer from a bottle? Different people
like their martinis in various degrees of
dryness. Yet we are forced to give them
one standard, bottled and stoppered,
single-serve martini!”
He equally deplored the inability to
serve brandy in the traditional way. In-
stead restaurants must use characterless
little bottles such as are served on trains
Some restaurateurs, he confided, were
having their wine waiters produce the
bottles for inspection and then disappear-
ing to return with a freshly mixed cock-
tail that ostensibly came from the pre-
viously inspected bottle. It was against
the law. But didn’t the adult diner have
the right to be served with his drinks the
way he preferred them?
Gathering Dust
A delaide’s master plan “The Report
on the Metropolitan Area of Adel-
aide” was launched last October. Since
then, the report, master-minded by the
Page
HAROLD WILSON’S BIG
CHANCE 28
An interview
What the Communist Purge Means 6
Loan Council: The Premiers Went
Home Happy 10
The New Pope 13
“Blue Hills”: A National Institution 15
Short Story: “The Codd Affair” 20
A Page of Jokes 24
A Consumers’ Report on “Choice” 32
Review: The Autobiography of
Upton Sinclair 41
Cotton in a Land of Wool 45
Profumo Hits the UK Stock Mar-
ket 46
What Does 1963-64 Offer Investors? 51
•
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 8
OVERSEAS 28
FORUM 32
LETTERS 35
REVIEWS 38
FEIFFER 40
RED PAGE 41
MAN ON THE LAND 45
WORLD OF BUSINESS ... 46
CROSSWORD 62
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone 27 5971.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone 2 0666 Ext. 380.
VOl. 83
No. 4350


Town Planning Committee, has been
steadily gathering dust on the Parlia-
mentary table.
The report contained detailed plans
for dealing with Adelaide’s growth, with
particular emphasis on traffic problems.
The system of freeways, overpasses and
arterial roads considered necessary to
deal with Adelaide's already pressing
traffic problems had one drawback
it came with a price tag of £7O million.
At first, Premier Sir Thomas Playford
and his Government were most enthusi-
astic about the report. However, the wails
of anguish from the Premier’s fellow ten-
ants in the Treasury building when they
discovered the cost quickly dampened
the initial enthusiasm. The report slip-
ped into the background, although not
before Sir Thomas had applauded the
Government Printer’s job on the magni-
ficently-bound 303-page report.
The recent departure for overseas of
the Government Town Planner, Mr
S. B. Hart, who is chairman of the report
committee, added to the ominous silence
surrounding the plan’s future. The other
day, the Lord Mayor, Mr C. J. Glover,
somewhat agitated by the inactivity, pre-
dicted that traffic could be unmanage-
able in the metropolitan area within
five years.
Now comes an unexpected announce-
ment from the SA Highways Department
that it will form a committee to examine
ways of initiating the extensive plan. The
move is heartening, but the cost of the
plan is still its greatest enemy. The
State’s road spending comes mostly from
petrol tax and registrations, neither of
which are likely to be raised to meet
the cost. The rest of the money comes
from what amounts to a Federal grant.
The City Council and suburban councils,
already heavily committed to road main-
tenance, can do little to help. The solu-
tion seems to lie in an increased Federal
grant.
Excluded
T ast week Melbourne and Monash
Universities belatedly issued the
figure for the number of qualified stu-
dents excluded this year under the quota
system. Melbourne knew how many stu-
dents it had excluded, and so did Monash,
but to get a true figure the two universi-
ties had to get together and eliminate the
double-counting of students whose names
appeared on both exclusion lists. This
seemingly simple task has taken official-
dom several months.
After making allowance for 1152 stu-
dents who withdrew their applications to
enter one or other of the universities,
there were 686 qualified students who
were excluded under the quotas. They
represent a shade over 15 p.c. of those
who applied, a disturbingly high propor-
tion. Of the rejected students, 568 wanted
to go to Melbourne, 66 to Monash and
52 applied to enter both universities.
Democracy
TTaving finally accepted fluoridation of
the city water supply, seven votes
to three, Hobart aldermen are discover-
ing, as Launceston’s did several years
ago, that even a final decision doesn’t
stop the controversy. Though they acted
on what they accepted as expert advice,
they are under pressure to put the ques-
tion to the arbitrary judgment of rate-
payers. Stirred by this, a correspondent
wrote to the editor of the Hobart Mer-
cury a little parable based on the dif-
ficulties of the contractors in getting a
firm footing for a pier for the new
bridge across the Derwent.
“As many citizens will be forced to
use this bridge,” he wrote, “I feel that
the decision on how many piles and
how deep they should go should not
be left to a few civil engineers but that
a referendum should be held to allow
all citizens to express their views about
a matter which directly affects their
safety.”
Getting Tough
HPasmanian Attorney - General Roy
A Fagan, a mild and friendly man, has
lost patience with vandals. He had resisted
earlier proposals that they should be
birched or sent to week-end punishment
camps, and even now he deprecates the
suggestion that he has adopted a “get
tough” line; but the legislation he has
prepared is stern stuff. The £5O or six
"The Sino-Soviet split poses serious questions for us


months’ ceiling is to be lifted, and van-
dals are to be made directly liable for
restitution.
Thorough examination of the records
had shown him that most of the serious
wilful damage to property was done by
youths from 16 to 24. “Most of them
are earning substantial wages and can
pay for their vandalism,” Mr Fagan said.
He dismissed the proposal that the van-
dals should be made to repair or re-
build property they had damaged or
destroyed. Few of the youths had the
trade skills necessary to undertake the
work successfully, he said.
He will legislate to make it easy for
the victims to recover damages from
convicted persons. At present sufferers
seldom take civil action because of the
expense and trouble involved and the un-
certainty of recovery. The new law will
empower the magistrate to assess the
damages and order payment as a regist-
ered judgment of the Court.
Mr Fagan proposes that the limit for
compensation should be raised from
£2O to £250. Furthermore, he says, the
legislation will provide for penalties sub-
stantially higher than the present £5O
fine or six months’ imprisonment. If
hooligans can be restrained by an assault
on their pockets, the big increases in the
cost of vandalism will, Mr Fagan be-
lieves, prove a strong deterrent.
The Week
HPo sum up last week’s activities the
A Russians put a woman into orbit and
the British put one into circulation.
Tanner
"Who do we have unity tickets
with?"
PLAIN ENGLISH
A LOUSY CUP OF COFFEE
murder of the Negro integration leader, Medgar Evers, will prob-
ably not be the last in the Negroes’ struggle for genuine American
citizenship. This Negro revolution is not comparable to the earlier great
American campaigns for political independence, for the abolition of
slavery, for the emancipation of women, or for the rights of labor. They
represented fairly minor adjustments compared with what the American
President has now endorsed which is the largest civil rights campaign
in American history, striking profoundly at basic habits.
Hence one should not underestimate either the President’s courage
this is no popular band-wagon —or the difficulties he will face: the
constitutional rights of the Southern States, the power of the un-
enlightened rural Congressmen, the hostility of a significant percentage
of the American people, and the threat of massive race war and wide-
spread murder.
But whatever he does there is little point in expecting the Negroes
suddenly to become what is naively called “reasonable.” Back in 1954,
when the Negroes were still moderate legalists, the Supreme Court ordered
the end of segregation in schools and the results were insignificant. Yet
schools were only one aspect of the situation which also involved shops,
restaurants, the suffrage, living areas, economic rights and economic
opportunities. As the Negro novelist James Baldwin remarked: “At the
rate things are going, all of Africa will be free before we can get a lousy
cup of coffee.”
Reasonableness had clearly become an excuse for getting nowhere
slowly. It was only the “unreasonable” Freedom Riders on public trans-
port and the Sit-Down movement in restaurants which began to get
results. Now for the first time the Negroes are actually winning and they
will not stop until they are accepted as ordinary Americans. The point
indeed is that it is the peaceful militants inspired by Gandhi who are
the moderates in the current situation. For “unreasonableness” one must
look at the Black Muslims only about 100,000 out of 19 million who
preach unrelenting hatred against white Americans. If the civil rights
movement fails it is groups like that which will profit.
There is no doubt that the American Negroes will win their struggle
and this racial blemish removed from the American scene. By their
courage and their passion for freedom the Negroes have shown that they
are very genuinely Americans in the best tradition. They, and the
President, are fighting for all of us.
SOVIET UNION AND NEW GUINEA
rnilE Soviet Union’s savage attack in the Trusteeship Council on
Australia’s Trust Administration in New Guinea will deceive no one.
In some respects the attack was the usual routine performance we have
come to expect from the Soviet Union, bent on stirring up as much
trouble as possible in areas of colonial disengagement. There was, how-
ever, an added element Russia’s obvious chagrin that the United
States had, through Mr Harriman, declared unequivocally that New
Guinea comes within the ANZUS Treaty arrangements in the event
of an external attack. Yet another element is probably the new attitude
of India towards Communist fishing in troubled colonial waters and, in
particular, the new attitude adopted by Indonesia towards her neighbors.
Indonesia is giving additional signs that she wishes to live in
amity with her near neighbors and to understand their problems. This
could hardly suit Russia’s book.


THIS AUSTRALIA
IN THE RED
What the Communist
Purge Really Means
A sign of renewed strength
TED HILL
Off to Peking
FROM FRED WELLS IN SYDNEY
rFHE recent defections from and purge
within the Communist Party have
been interpreted as signs of weakness and
collapse. In reality they are evidence of
renewed strength and of a gathering to-
gether of loose ends.
Certainly on the surface it appears as
though the roof is falling in. Within ten
days the news broke that Sydney journal-
ist Rex Chiplin and Melbourne trade
union leaders C. O’Shea and P. Malone
had resigned from the Party; that
Ted Hill, leader of the Red China wing,
and his principal assistants, Flo Russell,
Frank lohnson and Ken Miller, had all
been dismissed from their positions on
the Central Committee; and that Mr V.
Little and Mrs Lorbach had been ex-
pelled from the Party.
Stripped of the verbiage, the Com-
munist “Tribune’s” official announce-
ment which linked the purge with
The Bulletin’s damaging stories of the
power struggle inside the Communist
Party amounted to the cold state-
ment: “These people would not toe the
line. They are out!” The dismissal from
the Central Committee (not from the
Party) of Hill, Johnson, Russell, Miller
and Malone are of course only part of
an elaborate ritual that was lead either
to complete public and humiliating rec-
anting by these people, followed by ex-
pulsion, or just plain expulsion without
the recanting.
The CPA, as with other Communist
parties, never acts in this fashion from a
position of weakness. Before it wields its
axe, ritual and precedent demand that
first the ranks be closed, the dissidents
be isolated, and their support cut away.
Then, and only then, the axe falls.
Hill knows all this; he, Aarons and
Sharkey used the same tactics on
Blake and Henry in the last up-
heaval. He is fully aware that unless he
gathers further strength and strikes quick-
ly, he must sink into obscurity. He and
his group could hold together for a little
while, putting out their roneod pro-
paganda sheets, but the younger cadres
would be too busy competing for the
vacant chairs in the Central Committee
to pay much heed to them. Hill’s only
hope is to arrange financial support from
Peking which he will visit next week. He
has not denied reports that he is planning
to form a new Melbourne-based Com-
munist Party which would link with New
Zealand and Indonesia and Red China
to form an Asian International. (Sharkey
and Dixon will at the same time be in
Moscow for the Sino-Soviet discussions.)
Of them all only Hill, brilliant and am-
bitious, will be really missed. But he had
already been marked down for destruc-
tion by the even more ambitious L. Aar-
ons. Had it not been Red China some
other reason would have been found.
Soon Party myth - makers and history-
rewriters will distort the once heroic
figure of the Petrov inquiry into a nonen-
tity. Soon after that he will be written
off completely.
As for Chiplin’s defection, although
this was at first worrying, the leaders
realised that before he could do any dam-
age through attacks on the Soviet Union,
he would have to explain some of his
own past actions; they already had a
ready-made answer to him in his fulsome
praise of Communist countries in his
book “Over the Wall”, written on a pre-
vious trip to the Soviet Union and Red
China. The resignations of O’Shea and
Malone were of even less concern: they
had been expected and prepared for some
months back.
The real lesson of the purge is that
Laurie Aarons has safely negotiated his
first big hurdle, and that what has been
lost on the Left sectarian roundabout is
rapidly being more than made up for by
the United Front-Democratic Rights-
Peace Front swings. He will probably
call a special National Congress this year
to consolidate his victory and restore Vic-
torian representation on the Central Com-
mittee with “loyal” followers.
BUSINESS
The Cigarette War
Enter Gallahers
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
A gainst the background of high com-
petition on the Australian cigarette
scene the news of Gallahers’ proposed
entry in manufacturing and marketing
got an expectedly muffled reception.
But, then, so did Rothmans on its entry
to cigarette making here in 1957, when
W. D. and H. O. Wills had a virtual
monopoly of the market. Now Rothmans
call the major market tune.
The lack of excitement stemmed
from the trade’s foreknowledge (Gallaher
executives have been over here some
time negotiating for space and leaf sup-
plies) and from its confidence that the
market is going to be a very hard nut
for Gallahers to crack. The Big Four
manufacturers are strongly in possession.
Gallahers is the second biggest cigarette
seller in the UK, with about 30 p.c. of
the market compared with Imperial
Tobacco’s 60 p.c. It has been gearing
up for a move into overseas markets
since its agreement with British American
Tobacco (Wills) not to do so was ter-
minated two years ago. Australia is to
be the guinea pig.
Since W. D. and H. O. Wills controls
British Tobacco (Aust.) and through its
majority holding of Imperial Tobacco
(UK) has a 37 p.c. stake in Gallahers,
it might seem remarkable that Gallahers
is to come here and do battle with 8.T.,
among others. But it is stoutly main-
tained by the group that because the
Wills’- 37 p.c. interest in Gallahers car-
ries no voting rights, it therefore has no
say in Gallahers’ operations.
Be that as it may, and even if the
move is mainly designed to claw in
more of the growing Australian market
from Wills’ competitors, it could also
mean inroads by Gallaher into the share
now going to B.T. This looks all the


&
s
THE
COONAWARRA ESTATE
The vineyard and the old stone
cellars are in the care of dedicated
men who have retained many of
the traditional hand-methods in
carefully producing Australia’s
finest table wines.
Each bottle is marked with its
vintage year and carries a back
label clearly showing where the
Estate is located.
COONAWARRA ESTATE* CLARET IS
made from the original Shiraz
(Hermitage) vineyard.
COONAWARRA ESTATE CABERNET
is vintaged from 70 acres of the
rare Cabernet Sauvignon.
COONAWARRA ESTATE RIESLING
comes from a new vineyard of
Rhine Riesling.
*“Estate” (as the word “ Chateau ” in France) is used to
distinguish the wine as being the genuine product of the
winegrowers' own vineyard.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors: S. WYNN & CO.PTY.LTD.
more probable in the light of the three
existing brands, Kensitas, Edinburgh and
Park Drive, that Gallaher would be free
to market here.
Its other UK brand names are already
used in Australia by other companies,
some by British Tobacco, such as Senior
Service and Benson and Hedges; some,
Du Maurier, Albany and Abdulla, by
Godfrey Phillips, from whom Gallahers
is to get its leaf and also some house room
at Collingwood as a hopping-off ground.
None of Gallahers’ useable brands would
seem to be a straightout threat to the
best-selling and firmly established brands
of British Tobacco’s three biggest com-
petitors, though this does not preclude
new brands, offering deeper market pene-
tration, being introduced.
One upshot could therefore be that
while higher overall profits from the
Australian market should accrue to the
Wills combine as a whole, British
Tobacco’s particular share, and so the
return to its local shareholders, could
suffer. For the present, anyway,
Gallaher’s is not to offer a share of its
equity to Australians, though it may do
so later on, when firmly established.
Considering the streamlined, highly
efficient and competition - conditioned
manufacturing and marketing operations
of the present companies in the field,
that might not be for some time.
REDISTRIBUTION
The Country Party has
Liberals Over a Barrel
A decision must come soon
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
J. McEWEN
Wont play
n n HTP T HE mornent °f
jj\ riy [1 [j |J decision is ap-
proaching fast for
the Liberal Party on the electoral re-
distribution issue. It is hard to see how
the Liberals can keep stalling for long
after the Prime Minister, Sir Robert
Menzies, returns from his current over-
seas trip in mid-July.
As I see it, Mr McEwen has the
Liberals over a barrel. The Country Party
“bailed up” over the former redistribution
proposed by the Commissioners, which
would have given the Government (ex-
clusively through the Liberal Party sec-
tion of the Liberal-Country Party coali-
tion) an advantage in six to eight elec-
torates over the Labor opposition. These
proposals would have meant the loss of
two Country Party seats and the serious,
possibly fatal, weakening of the position
of the party’s candidates in two other
seats.
It was put to the Country Party, the
minority partner in the Menzies coali-
tion Government, that it should sacrifice
its sectional interests to the overall in-
terests of the Government. But it would
not play. As he had a floor majority of
only one in the House of Representatives
he had no other alternative, and Menzies
withdrew gracefully.
Since then negotiations between the
Liberals and the Country Party have been
proceeding. At one stage the Country
Party thought it had reached agreement
with the Liberals for the necessary legis-
lative amendments to (1) increase the
House of Representatives’ present voting
strength by two instead of reducing it by
two; and (2) make it mandatory for
the Commissioners who do the actual
redistribution to accord a 10 per cent
loading in favor of country electorates,
and a 20 per cent loading if the Com-
missioners so desired, instead of leaving
it wholly to the Commissioners’ discre-
tion, as is done at present, as to whether
they will exercise a loading of up to
20 per cent in favor of country elec-
torates.
But apparently the Country Party
thought wrongly. It has not reached an
agreement with the Liberals. The issue
is still unresolved.
The Liberal line is: “If you don’t ac-
cept the kind of redistribution which we
would prefer (and which would not do
anything for the Country Party) you are
risking being in a worse position. Labor
could win the next election, and the
redistribution then would be under their
auspices. They will give you worse treat-
ment than you’d get from us.”
The Country Party attitude is that, in
putting this viewpoint, the Liberals
might be right as far as Labor’s generosity
towards the Country Party is concerned
if Labor wins a Government. It points
out, realistically, that as senior partner
in the coalition it is up to the Liberals
to see that Labor does not win a Gov-
ernment, and that the Liberals can make
it very hard for Labor to win a Gov-
ernment by giving the Country Party the
kind of redistribution it wants. By stick-
ing firmly to this approach the Country
Party has made it clear that any redis-
tribution is going to be one it approves
or there is not going to be any re-
distribution.
As I see it, even with Grey and the
non-Labor win in the Queensland State
election under their belts, the pointer
to the state of their political fortunes is
not sufficiently strong for Liberals to face
a general election on existing boundaries
with equanimity. They need a redis-
tribution to face the electors with any
great confidence.
But time is running out. It takes any-
thing up to nine months to get a re-
distribution through all stages. For Men-
zies the problem must become one of the
most urgent he must face when he steps
off his plane in Canberra.


EDUCATION
There Will Be No
State Aid
Why the Left sat silent
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
E. WETHERELL
The key man
TI/lost commentators assumed that bald,
stooped, soft-voiced Ernie Wether-
ell, the NSW Minister for Education
(“the Boy from Broken Hill”), had been
served one of the “hottest political
potatoes” ever dished out in recent years
in the recommendation from the
Annual June Conference, the policy-
making body of the NSW Branch of the
Australian Labor Party, that the NSW
Government provide aid for all schools
(including Catholic ones) for the build-
ing and staffing of science departments.
But one of the intriguing mysteries of
the conference was the token opposition
from the bitterly sectarian Left wing of
the party which has violently opposed
State Aid on each and every occasion
it has been raised in the past. Why . . . ?
When the issue came before conference
the Left-wing leaders sat mutely in their
seats, apparently unaware of what was
going on, although their representatives
on the Education Committee Mrs K.
Anderson and schoolteacher Eric Ryan
must have told their cohorts of what
was afoot.
There is little doubt that someone did
in fact “leak” information about the
recommendations contained in the
Education Committee report. For at
least two weeks before the conference
there was an undercurrent among ALP
members and trade union officials
about what was going to happen. The
word was “watch education.” But since
any suggestion of a “deal” to get their
leader, Mr J. E. Heffernan, on the
official ticket seems out of the question
(though he was in fact included), it
leaves only one other alternative: the
Left wing was certain that even though
the recommendation might be carried it
would never be implemented. They
went to conference prepared to “humor”
their State Aid opponents.
There is little doubt where the key
man, Mr Wetherell, stands in relation
to the State Aid question. A Protestant
himself, he is said to have threatened
to resign when pressure was being
exerted on him during the strike by
Catholic parents in Goulburn last year.
He is, of course, bound by majority
decisions of Cabinet and the Parlia-
mentary Caucus, but he has only to
resign over the issue if too much
pressure is put on him and the State
Labor Government would be in danger,
faced with the prospect of having to
go to the electors on perhaps the most
emotional topic in the country.
THE FLAGELLATORS
fitfeulUtia
80 Years Ago: June 30, 1883
O ne of the most repulsive features
of the old penal days has been
revived in Victoria and in NSW.
Flagellation goes merrily on. Scarcely
a week passes but some wretches are
marched into a gloomy looking yard
in the Melbourne gaol, stripped to the
waist, bound to a triangle, and lashed
by the hangman with knotted whip-
cord until their shoulders present the
appearance of a ripe peach scored with
a pin, and the blood trickles down
their backs. It is sickening. Now, a
.■i-r•.• • j r ■ ’•
stripling of sixteen is carried fainting
away front the scene of his punish-
ment and his place at the whipping
post is taken by a white-haired,
broken-down old man of sixty, to
undergo the same infernal torture.
And yet we shudder when the semi-
barbarous Annamese impale a French
officer, or a tribe of infuriated savages
roast a missionary!
As the law stands in Victoria, the
evidence of a couple of unscrupulous
or abandoned women, or the unsup-
ported testimony of a couple of lisping
infants, may send a man to the tri-
angles. At the Emerald Hill Police
Court, some days ago, on the evidence
of two children, aged seven and five,
a man was sentenced to two years’
hard labour and two floggings of
twenty lashes each, for unwarrantable
exposure. The crime is abominable;
but the punishment well, it is
simply fiendish, more fitted for a com-
munity of Hottentots than of English-
men.
POLICE
Girl in a Cell
The Photopoulos Inquiry
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
case of Helen Photopoulos, the
17-year-old Mildura girl who was
kept in police cells for three days and
nights following her remand on a vag-
rancy charge (Bulletin, June 1), took a
dramatic turn last week. Miss Photo-
poulos appeared in court for an ad-
journed hearing of her case and Senior
Detective J. P. Barritt withdrew the
charge against her. It was also learned
that at the time when she was lodged
in the Mildura watch-house, Miss Photo-
poulos had been receiving weekly social
service payments for some time to en-
able her to care for her invalid parents
who have lived in Mildura for over a
decade.
For reasons which are far from clear,
Miss Photopoulos was charged on May
17 with vagrancy before two JPs. She
was remanded without bail and lodged in
the cells where she might have remained
longer but for the publicity given to the
episode by the Labor Leader in the Legis-
lative Council, Mr Galbally. She ap-
peared in court the day after Mr Gal-
bally spoke on the matter and Detective
Barritt (prosecuting) said all evidence
against her had been given when she
was charged. The girl’s counsel main-
tained that no case against her had been
heard. He obtained an adjournment until
June 19.-
It was on that day that Barritt an-
nounced withdrawal of the prosecution
which meant, if the girl’s counsel was
correct, that no case had ever been
stated against her.
Victoria’s Acting Attorney-General,
Mr Hamer, has since announced that
with the matter no longer sub judice,


WORLD-WIDE
Radiator
R 1
100% British Made
warmth
where you
want it...
Completely portable and self-
contained, the Tilley Radiator >
brings radiant warmth to
every corner of the house.
Entirely safe; burns for 12
hours on only pints of
ordinary kerosene.
For economical warmth whenever
and wherever it’s needed, you can
put your trust in TILLEY.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores, in case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE!
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
12 Sullivan Street,
MOORABBIN, 5.20,
Victoria, Australia.
• * A good coffee that
"won’t keep you awake at night
that’s
hue
CAFFEIN-
FREE
COFFEE
Enjoy the delicious flavour of HAG coffee,
either instant, ground or beans. HAG coffee
does not upset your heart, nerves or digestion.
h m
, decaffeina^
•nstanf Goti e i
¥
GOOD COFFEE AND A GOOD NIGHT'S SLEEP
the inquiry which the Government prom-
ised earlier is now proceeding. Mr Hamer
has admitted that the case was “mosit
regrettable” and that he had already re-
ceived several reports on it.
HEALTH
VD and Youth
The highest group
FROM A BRISBANE CORRESPONDENT
•T'he increasing number of people suf-
A fering from venereal disease par-
ticularly teenagers in NSW and Queens-
land has already led the NSW Govern-
ment to amend its Venereal Diseases Act
to require doctors to notify the Health
Department of the names and addresses
of suspected sources of infection. Now
the Government-sponsored Queensland
Health Education Council has pro-
duced an outspoken pamphlet headed
“What Every Teenager Should Know
About VD.” The Council said last week
that youth organisations in Queensland
would be asked to accept copies of it and
distribute it to members. Parent organis-
ations attached to secondary schools pro-
bably will get copies too.
The incidence of the disease in Queens-
land is now highest among the 16-20 age
group. Ten years ago, the incidence was
the lowest in this group.
Figures supplied by the Health Educ-
ation Council’s Chief Health Officer (Mr
J. E. Holliday) showed that in one year
133 more teenagers from 16 to 20 got
venereal disease than men and women
aged between 26 and 40. Figures for
1961-62, the latest available, were: 11-15
years, five cases; 16-20, 538 (406 males,
132 females); 21-25, 424; 26-30, 201;
31-35, 128; 36-40, 76. From there, the
age group incidence continues to fall.
One factor in this whole situation is
the failing value of penicillin as a cure
for gonorrhoea.
PRESS
The Royal
The currency lads
From a Melbourne Correspondent
A Melbourne newspaper group made
great hay out of a recent poll they
conducted on the Federal Government’s
decision to name the main new decimal
currency Royal. With what seemed like
glee and “We-told-you-so,” they for-
warded the result to Mr Holt: 46,788
people for and 2187 against Royal. This
was worked out at 95.3 per cent for and
4.7 against.
All in all it was a field day for the
newspapers as they carried news stories


and photographs of people counting the
votes, all taking up what some people
would call valuable news space.
But other statistical methods could be
applied to the poll. The two newspapers
together printed and sold approximately
8,150,000 newspapers containing the
coupon in just more than a week. (And
it must be remembered that the Profumo-
Keeler affair boosted the circulation of
both papers.) On this basis the percen-
tage of coupons returned was .57 per
cent. On a population ratio, the poll
comes out a little better. Last figures re-
leased by the Commonwealth Statisti-
cian gives Victoria’s population at
3,013,447 at December, 1962. This
means the percentage of Victorians who
returned the coupon was 1.55 per cent.
Other observers may feel that the poll
was a survey of the newspapers and
their contents.
MEDICINE
The Chiropractors’ Lobby
The spine manipulators and the ALP
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
\IfHAT went wrong with chiropractors?
" Three years ago the Annual Con-
ference of 'the Victorian ALP recom-
mended “that it be a plank of Labor’s
platform that the Chiropractors’ Associa-
tion of Victoria be recognised.” (Chiro-
practic is a method of curing disease by
manipulating the spinal column.) Last
week the Executive presented to the
1963 conference a report which com-
pletely reversed the original recom-
mendation and even proposed that the
Chiropractors’ Association of Victoria
be not recognised “in the interests of the
welfare and health of the community.”
The report was adopted.
In the last three years, the Chiro-
practors’ Association of Victoria had
become the Victorian Branch of the
Australian-wide body of chiropractors.
Many are graduates of Palmer College
in Davenport, lowa, USA, where
another 25 Australians are at present
doing the four-year course. In Victoria
there are others practising chiropractic
without these qualifications, some being
grouped in the rival United Chiro-
practors’ Association of Australasia Ltd.
In USA, Canada, New Zealand and
some other countries, chiropractic is
recognised as a legitimate healing
science. Many medical men are hostile
to it, but there are doctors, including
some in Australia, who will refer patients
to chiropractors if they consider this
treatment appropriate. Chiropractors, or
at least the Palmer graduates grouped in
the Australian Chiropractors’ Associa-
tion, are emphatic about the limitations
of their powers, but equally insistent
that they have a role to play in the
community’s health services.
The primary target of the Victorian
Branch of the association for some years
has been a system of registration which
would debar the unqualified and the
charlatan from setting up as chiro-
praetors. They were encouraged by the
1960 ALP resolution, though rather
puzzled at the inquiry which followed
it. The chairman was Preston MLA
Dr H. Henkins, and during the three
years it took the committee to finish its
report, only one of the association
appeared before it. This was the Vic-
torian secretary, Mr A. H. Hart, who
was before the committee for an
estimated 45 minutes. The only other
representative of the association was a
Public Relations consultant who also
saw the committee very briefly.
On the other hand, the ALP inquiry
did see Dr C. H. Dickson, Victorian
Secretary of the Australian Medical
Association, and Dr J. S. Johnson of
the Victorian Health Department, and
the Dean of Medicine from Monash
University, Prof. R. R. Andrew. Two
physiotherapists were interviewed, two
representatives of the United Chiro-
practors and one from an institution
which purports to train chiropractors
and osteopaths in a Melbourne suburb.
The ALP committee found that no
educational or academic standards were
required for entry into the profession in
Australia. It was precisely for this
reason that the Victorian chiropractors
had lobbied for registration. The ALP
also found that claims made by chiro-
practors with regard to treatment and
standing in other countries were grossly
exaggerated. It did not list, however,
among the publications it had studied the
report of the WA Royal Commission
Natural Therapy (1961) which recom-
mended that chiropractic educational
facilities be set up in Australia. Chiro-
practic was the only “natural therapy”
regarded with favor by the WA Royal
Commission.
The association has attacked the ALP
report on the grounds that it lacks
“depth and integrity.” Apart from Mr
Hart’s brief appearance the association
says it heard nothing from the ALP
during its three years’ deliberations and
claims that no chiropractic premises
were ever inspected by members of the
inquiry committee.
A number of patients volunteered to
appear, but were not seen by the
inquiry. Further, one member of the
committee did not attend a single meet-
ing during the three years.
LOAN COUNCIL
Premiers Went Home Happy
A clue to the Budget
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
I>usiness can take heart from the re-
suits of the deliberations of the
Loan Council in Canberra last week.
Flushed with the success of its loan rais-
ing campaign for 1962-63 the Federal
Government was in its most accommo-
dating mood for years. The States got
£5 million more than they asked for in
special non-repayable grants for stimu-
lating employment and only £3 million
less than their total loan demands for
public works and housing. With the pos-
sibility of more being allotted on both
scores (as was the case in 1962-63) as
supplementary grants during the year
should the employment situation warrant
them and loan results allow them the
Premiers all went home happy except
Mr Bolte.
His beef was the inadequacy of tax re-
imbursements, which he said would en-
tail the state budgeting for about a
<£s million deficit. However, he had no
inhibitions about deficit budgeting in the
light of the heavy demands for expendi-
ture on social services such as education
and the prospect of having to assimilate
at least half of the substantially higher
number of migrants expected to reach
the country during the coming year.
Naturally with the prospect of a de-
ficit of this order in front of him, on his
return home the Victorian Premier had
some hard words to say on the uniform


taxation system, opposition to which has
been a hobby horse of his for four years-
Nobody expects him to succeed in putting
the clock back on this question, so it
could be that if the Federal Government
is not prepared to carry big enough de-
ficits to allow adequate tax re-imburse-
ments to the states it will have to recog-
nise the right of states to do the de-
flating. In certain circumstances this
could become an intolerable situation for
a Federal Government charged with the
task of economic direction for the coun-
try as a whole.
But for the moment with the economy
as a whole needing more monetary stim-
ulus there is no cause for alarm. Indeed
the stage seems to have been set for
just the right sort of boost to income
generation from public sector sources
the more so since the more liberal
attitude shown by the Loan Council could
well be reflected in an expansionary
budget in about six weeks time.
However, one cannot say that either
business coment or the reaction of the
stock exchanges reflected a new sense
of optimism from the outcome of the
Loan Council meeting. Perhaps this was
hardly to be expected with some heavy
winter months ahead and the new boosts
to public works and housing expendi-
ture likely to be fairly slow in sifting
through to the general stream of de-
mand. It could be a different matter if
the Budget produces some worthwhile
tax cuts.
POLITICS
The Ingenious
Gerrymander
Will Play ford do it again?
FROM ROBERT HETHERINGTON IN ADELAIDE
SIR T. PLAYFORD
Revolutionary?
T AST year South Australia witnessed a
quiet revolution. The Playford Gov-
ernment abandoned one of the basic
planks of its platform: having two
country seats to every one metropolitan
seat in the House of Assembly. Then, on
October 23, Sir Thomas Playford intro-
duced a bill to appoint a Commission to
draw up new electoral boundaries on new
principles.
The present electoral system has served
the Playford Government well. It is
simple. It can be defended as giving
proper and adequate representation to
the people responsible for the export in-
come of the State, the primary producers.
It has required no obvious gerrymander-
ing of electorates, and has the appearance
of being backed by a hundred years of
South Australian practice. And since
1938, when the present 39 single mem-
ber electorates were first used, it has
effectively prevented the disaster of a
Labor Government even when, as in
1944 and 1962, the ALP clearly had the
support of a majority of the electors.
What has brought about Sir Thomas
Playford s change of attitude? It is cei-
tainly not his devotion to the principle of
one vote one value . He doesn t recog-
nise this principle. Indeed, while making
his second reading speech last year he
produced the statement: It is, of course,
not an accepted principle anywhere else.
The answer lies in the industrialization
of South Australia and the rapid growth
of population during and since the war.
The defined metropolitan area, returning
one third of the members of the House
of Assembly, now contains over 60 per
cent of the population. Even those who
reject the notion of one vote one value
find it hard to justify a system which
gives the country vote nearly four times
the value of the metropolitan vote,
But more important is the fact that
system, so heavily weighted against
is now favouring the ALP and,
B is maintained, will almost inevitably
return a Labour Government within two
elections.
Sheltered by the electoral system for
Y ears , Playford s Liberal Country
League organisation, despite its large
headquarters staff and paid organisers,
became complacent and flabby. But the
ALP developed an efficient electoral
machine. This, together with changes in
population distribution, has enabled it to
capture nine of the 13 metropolitan seats.
better yet.
coun t r Y the development of the
industrial towns of Whyalla, Port
Augusta, and Port Pirie has produced
three safe Labor seats instead of two.
The satellite town of Elizabeth to the
North of the City has made the country
seat Q f Gawler wholly Labor. The spill
over of suburban development into
country electorates on the fringe of the
metropolitan area is threatening other
LCL sitting members,
These trends were quite clear in 1959.
But now the Playford Government faces
new difficulties: Under the SA constitu-
tion an absolute majority (20 votes) is
needed to alter the electoral system.
Further the Speaker can vote only if the
voting is equal. In the present House
both the Government and the Opposition
have 19 members each, the casting vote
of the Independent Speaker making up
the Government’s majority. But if, when
Sir Thomas Playford introduces his new
electoral bill, one Labor member abstains
from voting, the Government will have
19 votes to the Opposition’s 18 so
the Speaker would not be able to vote
and Playford will not have his constitu-
tional majority!
To avoid being beaten by Labor tactics
of this kind the Government needed a
scheme that is acceptable to the ALP or
is of such apparent fairness that it might
be used as an election issue when the
ALP rejected it.
The Government’s bill therefore
shows ingenuity. It divides the State into
two areas: a rural or primary-producing
area and a remaining area, each to be
divided into 20 seats. In addition, at the
discretion of the Electoral Commission,
two additional seats may be created
beyond 30 miles from the GPO.
This formula gives apparent equality
between the metropolitan and country
areas and can be presented as increasing
the metropolitan representation from 13
to 20. But, by clearly defining the rural
area, the metropolitan area can be greatly
increased to include not only fringe
suburbs but a large slab of the Gawler
electorate and parts of the Adelaide Hills
districts. The 20 new metropolitan seats
named, therefore, represent about 70 per
cent of the population, perhaps more.
Metropolitan quotas would be lower than
now, sufficient to separate and enclaves
of LCL votes and increase LCL metro-
politan representation to six or seven.
The most ingenious part of the scheme
is the provision for two extra seats in the
country. Were the whole of the country
area divided into 20 seats the ALP would
win at least seven, possibly ten. LCL
country representation would be at most
13. Under the terms of the Government
Bill the three safe Labor seats of
Whyalla, Stuart, and Port Piric (and
possibly also a fourth, Wallaroo) would
be lumped together into two, with large
quotas. In this case the ALP could
expect to win only five of the remaining
20 rural seats, and LCL Country repre-
sentation would increase to 15.
It is conceivable that under such a
distribution the ALP might still manage
to win an election if it increased its sup-
port still further. But it would find it
practically impossible to win the absolute
majority, excluding the Speaker, which
it would need to be able to put through
the Lower House a bill to alter a system
so heavily weighted against it.


mu i
WHEN ¥Oll ySE POWER, GOODYEAR MAKES W/HIAY YOU NEED
sW'i
*r.
z
✓
if
m
r-
f*-
J 0
m
23ft
When you choose industrial rubber products durability
is of prime importance. Illustrated are seven striking
examples of the Easting qualities of Goodyear products.
But that is only part of the story. The
choice of a Goodyear product may
begin with many other aspects of its
use: extreme temperature conditions;
the need to withstand prolonged ex-
posure to weather; an unusual use
calling for a special design.
Goodyear meets such demands with
unrivalled world-wide experience in
industrial rubber. It comes to you
through the G.T.M. (Goodyear Tech-
nical Man). He is trained to give you
immediate, expert advice on any pro-
blem, and he is as near as your tele-
phone. When you need the answer to
a question about rubber, call him, or
write to the Goodyear branch in your
State.
n$
Specified
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS
This Goodyear V-belt delivers up' to
100 horsepower, maintaining the
water supply of a W.A. town—
frequently under heatwave condi-
tions. It’s a job calling for the
utmost reliability—the sort of job
Goodyear is chosen for.
m.
Hoisting a ton of rock every minute
is a tough job, but it’s a job handled
with ease by a Goodyear Bucket
Elevator belt at this Queensland
crushing plant.
2*
'■ ..
Goodyear air hose solved the prob-
lem for one of. Australia’s largest
cement producers who wanted a hose
that could stand rugged handling
and still deliver 100% performance.
vOWmS?"
Impact after impact but never a
sign of loading dock damage. Good-
year rubber fendering protects
vehicles, too, in this 200 feet loading
dock.
m a
m
m
qxX&tmZ:
mm
Frequent replacement of rope mat
fenders was a costly problem until
this harbour tug was fitted with
tough, abrasion-resistant, resilient
Goodyear rubber fenders.
mm
mmm
Australia’s greatest sugar lift at
Mackay, Queensland, is handled by
Goodyear conveyor belts. They stand
up to the assault of 650 tons an
iour.
C 2640


Rome Newsletter
POPE PAUL VI
Two elegies and an enigma
From DESMOND O’GRADY
Battista Montini is a man
" whose character was shaped by sick-
ness during adolescence. Like many
others w'hose crucial developmental years
were spent studying in comparative isola-
tion, he reached intellectual maturity
early; he has a strong will and, if not
cold, seems at least detached in his per-
sonal relations.
Reputedly, he keeps to a taxing
schedule which allows him only five
hours sleep a night but he has lived all
his life according to a rigid discipline
which was first imposed to protect his
fragile health.
His mother decreed the hours he was
to spend in play, study, and sleep. She
was born Giuditta Alghisi and became
President of the Association of Catholic
Women of Brescia. She married a law
graduate Giorgio Montini, who was a
leader in the Catholic organisations of
Brescia, a town councillor, and director
for 25 years of the local paper II Citta-
dini. He was president of the Electoral
Union of Italian Catholics and was
elected to Parliament as a representative
of the Parlilo Popolare Italiano, the fore-
runner of the Christian Democratic
Party. One of the Pope’s two brothers
is a Christian Democratic Senator, the
other a doctor.
The future Paul VI was born into
this family of Catholic notables at Con-
cesio, a suburb of Brescia, north-west of
Milan, on September 26, 1897. He began
his schooling at the Jesuit College in
Brescia but his fragile health forced him
to finish the secondary course at home.
Because of this fragility he was allowed
to complete his studies for the priest-
hood at home also and became a priest
without living in seminary just as he was
to become an Archbishop without having
been a parish priest and, in 1958, a papal
candidate without being a Cardinal.
In 1920 Montini was ordained; he
graduated in canon law at the Milan
Seminary, enrolled in the arts faculty at
Rome University and began philosophy
at the Pontifical Gregorian University.
He attracted the attention of Monsignor
Pizzardo, who at that time was substitute
Secretary of State, and now, at 86 and a
Cardinal, has seen his promising young
man become Paul VI.
Pizzardo called Montini to the
Ecclesiastic Academy which prepares
future Vatican diplomats and had Mon-
tini study Canon Law at the Gregorian.
Montini had a brief period at the
Apostolic Nunciature in Warsaw in
1923, entered the Secretariat of State
in 1924 and in 1937, at the age of 40,
he ceased teaching the history of
Pontifical Diplomacy to become Sub-
stitute Secretary of State. Pius XI was
Pope, Eugene Pacelli his Secretary of
State.
The demands of Vatican diplomacy
had made Montini resign, in 1933, from
the position he had held for eight years
as national spiritual director for the
anti-Fascist Catholic University Students’
Association; he also had to abandon his
work with the Saint Vincent de Paul
Society in the slums of Rome. Montini
spent up to 14 hours a day at his desk
in the Secretariat of State and his load
became even heavier when, after the
death of Cardinal Maglione in 1944,
Pius XII decided not to appoint another
Secretary of State.
Montini and Tardini, the other sub-
stitute, were both promoted to Pro-
Secretaries of State in 1952 and both
declined to be made Cardinals in 1953.
Montini’s reputation as a brilliant and
enlightened Secretary of State was such
that his influence and popularity came
to rival that of Pius XII. In 1954, on
the death of Cardinal Ildefonso Schuster,
he was sent to Milan as Cardinal Arch-
bishop. There are two versions of the
circumstances of his transfer which
differ in detail but are in substantial
agreement. Pius XII was content to see
the Curia wither on the vine: he concen-
trated power in his own hands, directed
the Vatican by telephone calls beginning
“Pacelli here,” and created his own court
of relatives, friends and intimates. Mon-
tini was part of this court until he upset
Pius. One version has it that Montini
discovered improper financial specula-
tion by some members of the Court
and placed the evidence in a file on Pius’
desk; the other version has it that Pius
sent him a directive but that he held it
up for some time and then went to
suggest to Pius his own ideas on the
subject.
Sickness prevented Pius XII from
attending Monsignor Montini's consecra-
tion as bishop in Saint Peter's but the
radio enabled him to hear the enthusi-
astic applause which broke out when
Montini received the ring, the mitre
and crosier from Cardinal Tisserant.
Only the Pope is applauded in Saint
Peter’s and there was no doubt in
people’s minds that Montini was to be
Pius’ successor.
Milan was just as sure that within a
few months its Archbishop would be
made a Cardinal but the last four years
of Pius’ reign passed without Montini
being admitted to the Sacred College.
Although excluded from the 1958 con-
clave he was considered a likely choice
as Pope but Angelo Roncalli was elected.
He lost no time in creating new
cardinals, with Montini heading the list.


m-> mm
TV
rhsett Freight Express
•T ■
EVERYTHING GOES . . .
ANSCTT
FREIGHT
mXPRESS
GETS THERE ON TIME!
For further particulars phone:
Melbourne 68 0541 • Sydney 67 0533 • Adelaide 45 5337 • Canberra 9 4091
Brisbane 47 1481 • Perth 24 4926 • Tasmania —Devonport 2 2659
8737
foe tinkling
77 iiisi
C HA
N
a*
[Oh
(ID Callura’s-
(Mpy**
Scots (ilhislw
m
HiMUH" (• Ot««6* 6 «•<>»)
D'U.llcd and b'cdrC oSCUhUti
MC 45.65 m Hi
the harmony
of an age old
Scottish blend
the
perfection of
a product of Scotland... of her soil;
her rivers, her very atmosphere.
Pope John showed his esteem of
Montini by assigning him the Vatican
apartment formerly occupied by Cardinal
Canali for the duration of the Council
at which the Central and Northern
European progressive bishops looked to
him as their Italian equivalent. All these
factors would seem to have made Mon-
tini the obvious choice as Pope or, at
least, as the progressive candidate, but
when the election neared serious doubts
arose.
His caution at the Council disappointed
those who expected him to be the spear-
head of the radicals. Many had been
disappointed just before the Council
when he did not oppose the Holy Office’s
pressure which brought about the closure
of the radical Catholic fortnightly
Adesso which was accused of criticis-
ing the hierarchy, of advancing unaccept-
able ideas on the autonomy of the laity,
and of “collusion” with the French
periodicals Esprit and Temoinage
Chretien.
Some weeks later when the Council
issued its message to humanity which
bore the imprint of the most advanced
ideas of French Catholicism as one
might find them expressed in Esprit it
was known that Montini had collabor-
ated in preparing the message. This was
what one would expect from a man who
had expounded Maritain’s philosophical
ideas as early as 1936, and who had set
out to take over the Milan Diocese
with 11 trunks of books forming the
main part of his luggage. But at the
most dramatic point of the Council
when the debate raged about the text on
the sources of revelation, Montini,
whose intervention may have been
decisive, was silent. He did speak in the
debate regarding the nature of the
Church, criticising moderately the text
prepared by the Commission which had
worked under Cardinal Ottaviani. Some
found it a magistral address, others
criticised him for remaining above the
struggle of the different currents. Mon-
tini. they said, had understood that the
next Pope must be a compromise choice
between the two progressives and con-
servatives so he does not want to
antagonise either group. His critics
traced the alternations of attitude
throughout his career, and added reser-
vations about his pastoral endeavours
as Archbishop of Milan.
They ignored the appeal he made last
year to Franco for clemency for a student
charged with a political crime, they for-
got his fine address in Rome before the
Council in which he “baptised” the Italian
Risorgimento which led to the creation
of an Italian State independent of ths
Church, they omitted any reference to his
diocesan papers’ support of the “opening
to the left” in Italian politics even after
the last elections when many Catholics


were shouting “I told you so” as they
began rebuilding the dyke against Com-
munism, and they could not have read
his articles calling for an organic re-
ordering of the material to be discussed
in the Ecumenical Council which was
iater ordered by Jope John.
Still the criticism of Montini was not
unfounded. He is an enigmatic figure
even after so many years of public life
and the stocks of both Cardinal Lercaro
and Cardinal Urbani rose as doubts
thickened about Montini. The pre-Con-
clave period is the story of two elegies
which may have decided Montini’s fate.
Montini’s elegy on John XXIII was
such a firm approval of John and such
a binding pledge to continue his work
that it forestalled critics of his uncer-
tainty. The other elegy was the official
one at the funeral mass for Pope John
which praised his life but raised doubts
about the value of his work, which ap-
proved the idea of the Council but said
it would have to be considered when it
would be suitable to reconvoke it.
In other words it was a manifesto of
the reactionary current which regards
John’s work and the Council as disasters
for the Church.
It was intended to set the tone for the
Conclave but required three signatures.
The bearded, former French cavalry
officer and Dean of the College of Car-
dinals, Tisserant, known for his brusque,
authoritarian character, is believed to
have refused to sign the elegy and to
have promised to deliver an antidote to
it at the beginning of the Conclave.
Whether he did or not, Giovanni Bat-
tista Montini now faces the perils of his
Pontificate. Pope John had identified the
three great tasks for the Church:
its internal renovation; a dialogue with
all faiths, beginning with the other
Christian religions; and finally a dialogue
with all men whatever their ideologies.
The Council will be reconvoked and it
will not be emasculated. Although Paul
VI lacks the immediate personal appeal
of Pope John there is no doubt either
that the attempt to reunite Christianity
will be fostered by him. He will realise
that an involution, a lack of goodwill or
understanding would close the possibility
of a rapprochement for all time. In his
field he is fortunate to have the splendid
Secretariat for Christian Unity func-
tioning under the direction of Cardinal
Bea.
The future of the Church’s relations
with the Communist world, or rather the
Russian dominated section of it, is less
certain. The release of Monsignor Slipij
and the abstention from a condemnation
of Communism during the first Council
session, the reception of Khrushchev’s
son-in-law by the Pope and the milder
tone of Vatican Radio broadcasts to the
Iron Curtain countries, the distinction
that Pacem in Terris draws between
false philosophies and their historical
derivations all marked a new phase in
relations between the Church and the
Communist world.
It is only to be expected that Com-
munist leaders will be cautious of the
man who was Secretary for State when
Pius XII was leading the crusade against
Communism. Likewise, the Vatican will
want to test Communist intentions once
again before the contacts continue. But
one earnest of the continuance of the
previous explorations is that Paul VI has
reconfirmed Cardinal Cicognani as Secre-
tary of State.
It was feared that if a “Progressive”
Pope was elected he would first of all
have to insure the reactionaries that he
would appoint one of their number as
his Secretary of State. Franco’s friend,
Cardinal Antoniutti, may well have
filled the post. Instead Cicognani, Pope
John’s Secretary of State —25 years a
Vatican diplomat in the US will con-
tinue.
It may seem that Pope Paul will ensure
a renovation of the Church in the spirit
of the Gospel, a positive attitude to the
problems of men rather than anathemas,
more liberty in theological and biblical
studies which will allow close contacts
between Catholic and Protestant scholars,
a decentralisation in the government of
the Church and an increased inter-
nationalisation of the College of Cardi-
nals and of the Curia.
But there are difficulties in the way
of such achievements. It seems almost
inevitable that Pope Paul will, at least
initially, be a disappointment for some.
It is difficult to succeed a man of great
personal appeal and doubly difficult when
that man introduced a dramatic change
of policy which resulted from a generous,
wide vision.
Moreover, many of Pope John’s initia-
tives cannot bear the quick results some
people expect. But the difficulties are not
due solely to the style of the man or to
the time factor. There are two perils for
Pope Paul, character and Curia.
Pope John avoided stacking the Curia
with his own men so his brief reign
leaves levers of power within the Vati-
can in much the same hands as at the
time of Pius XII. This speaks much for
the pacific character of Pope John but it
may place Pope Paul in a difficult posi-
tion. Naturally the Curia did not see why
Pius XII should favour the young Mon-
signor with his special attention and
there were some happy hearts when he
left for Milan. Now he has returned and
must govern the Church through his
Curia.
At this point the Curia peril becomes
intertwined with the character peril. No-
body doubts Montini’s high intelligence
or his broad culture but he has revealed
strange shifts in attitudes and opinions.
Part of this may be due to his being
expected to act like a rip-roaring radical
when he is more truly a moderate of
broad culture and understanding. Part of
it may be due to excessive analysis of his
every act as he is always in the public
eye. Part of it is due to his awareness
of the nuance of every question. But
part of it seems to reveal indecision.
If he is really indecisive at times
there are plenty of men in the Vatican
who will be only too ready to make up
his mind for him. But as Pope he may
reveal a coherence and vision which will
ensure that Pope John’s reign was not
merely an interlude.
And Yonder Are The
Everlasting Hills
Nothing stronger than a good cup of tea
By PATRICIA ROLFE
At curtain-rise on the second act of
“The Season at Sarsaparilla,” Pat-
rick White’s rather blue “Blue
Hills” at the Theatre Royal, Sydney, the
theme music of “Blue Hills” is played.
It always gets a giggle The long-run ABC
radio serial is always good for a laugh.
Even the ABC laughs at it, and the Lord
knows the ABC hasn’t had much to laugh
at lately.
But White’s suburb of Sarsaparilla is a
long way from “Blue Hills” country. The
ABC may admit that “Blue Hills” is a
soap opera, but it’s pretty refined soap.
In its 20-odd years it has covered many
human situations, but these haven’t in-
cluded adultery in the kitchen. In fact,
nothing really comes out of the “Blue
Hills” kitchen stronger than a good cup
of tea.
The ABC attitude to “Blue Hills”
seems to be one of affectionate loyalty.
They don’t mind if you laugh at it, but
they do point out that most people who
do laugh have never listened. The attitude
of the author, Miss Gwen Meredith, is
neither to apologise for it nor explain
it away. She probably does not “believe”


m
mmm
WMZ.
> :
L_J
•••,••-
m
H€§
; <si
MM
■M
§S
8
.
W%
IP
iii
mmm
" r m
■m.
*-
- : f*
*
x^ 1
s**i
■:
, •;i ;
lill
wm
li
•-:■■■••
aft
. n."
r-.-
ft*
*
FIBREGLASS Insulation
goes in as aluminium
walls go up.
II
8
Workman from Lightweight
Structurers Pty. Ltd. fixes
FIBREGLASS Insulation
and aluminium sheeting in
one easy operation.
FIBREGLASS INSULATION
run IM Plt Iff YIP
run hIuANJIu
urw QMFITFR
IwfcWW wlwlfcfci fell
FIBREGLASS Insulation has been chosen by Alcoa of Australia Pty. Ltd. for the
Extrusion Building at its new £23 million aluminium smelter at Point Henry, Victoria.
!n all, 400,000 square feet of FIBREGLASS roof and wall insulation is being used.
And why do companies like Alcoa choose FIBREGLASS? Simply because FIBRE-
GLASS has been proved the world’s number one insulation against heat, cold, noise.
FIBREGLASS Insulation is top seller for most thermal and acoustic needs in the
U.S.A.
And just as FIBREGLASS Insulation is ideal for Alcoa’s vast enterprise, so it can
be the perfect insulation for your factory, office and home. FIBREGLASS is light-
weight, clean, easy to install. Fire resistant too, and everlasting. Supplied in con-
venient rolls, batt or loose form.
For further information on office, factory or home insulation, complete and mail
coupon below.
Remember there is only one FIBREGLASS Insulation.
Fibreglass
WOOL INSULATION
SYDNEY Cnr. Canal & Burrows Rds., St. Peters 51 7351
MELBOURNE 420 Spencer Street 30 2611
BRISBANE Montague Road 4 1471
ADELAIDE Aroona Road, Kilkenny 45 4771
PERTH 91-99 Kensington Street 23 3051
HOBART Gormanston Road, Moonah 7 6796
LAUNCESTON 52 Patterson Street 2 5819
CANBERRA Cnr. Eyre & Jardine Sts., Kingston 9 3879
NEW ZEALAND Aranui Road, Penrose, Auckland 594-140
It’s pink . . . it’s clean.
To: AUSTRALIAN FIBRE GLASS PTY. LTD.
Please send me literature on Fibreglass
Insulation for factory/office/home* and ad-
dress of my local suppliers.
*Cross out whichever is not applicable.
NAME _
ADDRESS -
FGIO/6:


in the way in which successful writers
of romantic short stories are said to do,
but neither is it a cynically calculated job.
The ABC drama department should
and does love Miss Meredith. Her copy,
currently four instalments a week, is al-
ways on time, and requires virtually no
editing. This may sound a rather negative
sort of praise, like giving her the prize
for the girl who has made the most con-
sistent effort, but to people dependent on
writers it means a great deal. It means
professional standards in a country where
greater acclaim is so often given to the
clamorous amateur.
The ABC can produce a battery of
statistics about “Blue Hills.” Since it be-
gan, Miss Meredith, who has written every
word of it and who certainly holds a
world record for a radio serial, has writ-
ten 4412 episodes. Each has about 1250
words, so the grand total of words is
somewhere near 5,500,000. If you take
the average novel as running to between
70,000 and 100,000 words, Miss Mere-
dith might have written more than 50
novels in the past 20 years. “Blue Hills”
has probably enabled more than one
Sydney actor to keep his head above
water at some time, and if all the actors
and actresses who have appeared in it
were laid end to end they would probably
just get up again and have another cup
of tea.
The ABC can afford to smile at “Blue
Hills” because it has become a national
institution and, as your sagging satirists
would know, we haven’t very many nat-
ional institutions. Its survival and con-
tinued strength has become even more
remarkable in the past few years. Tele-
vision saw the rapid shrinkage in the
sponsors available for daytime serials,
which used to run quarter-hour after
quarter-hour throughout several hours
of the day on several commercial stations.
“Dad and Dave”, those bastard descend-
ants of “On Our Selection”, were last
heard of somewhere along the west
coast of the South Island of New Zea-
land, their voices growing dimmer as the
retapes of retapes wore thin. There is
now confident talk that the daytime ser-
ial is staging a comeback on commercial
stations, but none has had the everlasting
quality of “Blue Hills.”
Captive audience
f\ f course, the ABC never had to
worry about a sponsor for “Blue
Hills,” nor whether anyone listened to
it at all. But the Commission is con-
vinced that the programme is worth it.
The latest of those interminable surveys
showed that of sets in use at the time
the serial is broadcast 50 per cent are
tuned to its station.
Much of the audience is undoubtedly
captive. “Blue Hills” comes on at 1 p.m.
after the Country Hour (more recently it
has also been broadcast at 6 p.m.). After
a hard morning’s work in the paddocks,
you mightn’t be bothered getting up to
tune out the serial. Competition from
other programmes isn’t particularly keen
around midday, either, although with the
sort of weather we’ve been having on the
eastern seaboard over the past few
months there have been times when the
weather forecasts and river heights have
won hands down over “Blue Hills” for
sheer drama.
Miss Meredith’s achievement has not
only been to give the ABC her copy on
time, it has been to give them what they
asked for. “Blue Hills” was planned to do
a particular job. When the Rural Hour
began in 1944 it was decided that a serial,
based on country life, could be a useful
propaganda medium in wartime, and that
through it farmers could be encouraged
to grow crops which were needed and
discouraged from production which had
less immediate vab-ce.
Miss Meredith, a city girl, was chosen
to write it. It was also intended that it
should be a serial of talk rather than
action - it was never meant to be a
cliff-hanger with emphasis on char-
acter rather than incident. Miss Meredith
has always written extremely natural dia-
logue.
The serial still follows its original for-
mula more or less. For the first 1299
episodes it was called “The Lawsons,”
then when Miss Meredith had worked
through every possibility with this family
it became “Blue Hills.” The original blue
hills were around Curlewis in the New
England district of NSW, but the serial
has at various times been set in different
parts of Australia, on the assumption that
wherever you go on this continent you
see blue hills.
Miss Meredith changes her locale
generally by the simple expedient of
having one of the family marry and go
to take up land elsewhere. The serial
has been in Central Australia. Miss
Meredith recently spent a holiday in
Tasmania, where the tourist bureau got
out the red carpet, and the serial will
probably move down there soon. Miss
Meredith does all her own research. “I
believe that The Archers’, a long-running
BBC serial, has a whole staff working out
background details,” she said. “They have
charts on the wall following the progress
of crops and so on, but I do all that
myself.”
Some years ago Miss Meredith went to
Scotland at the invitation and expense of
the Immigration Department and the
serial for some time followed the adven-
tures of a migrant family. She has also
had one or two trips abroad during which
she kept up her commitments. However,
she did discover that when she trans-
ferred the serial to an English back-
ground listener reaction was most un-
favorable. “That was years before ‘The
Doll’ was written,” she said, “but I
learnt then that Australians prefer a
local background.”
After the war, when Miss Meredith was
free of propaganda on agriculture, she
took up controversial issues. This fits into
the pattern of talk and any subject raised
is given a pretty good bash. She began
fairly modestly and conventionally with:
Should a Girl Marry an Older Man? (she
did), but has now worked through the
color question, the waifs of Kure and
soil erosion to alcoholism.
Two barred topics
get background for the episodes
containing an alcoholic, Miss Mere-
dith went to AA meetings. A recent,
unsigned letter from a listener, “For
God’s sake don’t let her marry an
alcoholic. I did,” gave her pause, but
she also had a letter from an alcoholic
who said that it was only through the
serial that she had ever heard of Alco-
holics Anonymous and that she in-
tended to go to a meeting.
There are two subjects Miss Meredith
won't touch. Not surprisingly they are re-
ligion and politics. She began a story in
which a Catholic planned to marry a
Protestant. The reaction was so violent
that she changed course immediately, had
one of them win the lottery and go for
a trip.
Politics are banned by the ABC but
Miss Meredith doesn’t want to buy in on
them herself. Early in the piece, ques-
tions were asked in the House of Repre-
sentatives because a character complained
about the difficulties of getting trucks
for farm-work in the early postwar years.
Miss Meredith has for years dictated
straight on to a machine. The work is
then typed and she corrects it. Sometimes
a script will have only half a dozen
words changed. Only rarely is retyping
needed. Miss Meredith works without a
synopsis but to a general plan which is
discussed with the ABC beforehand. The
ABC’s feeling is that the serial will run
for as long as Miss Meredith wants to
or can keep it going.
Miss Meredith went from Sydney Uni-
versity to a book club. Her ambition to
write plays led her to the little theatres.
Three or four plays were produced by
Doris Fitton at the Independent. “They
were not terribly good plays,” Miss Mere-
dith feels now with, apparently, no re-
grets that she might have spent the last
20 years writing the great Australian
play. And there is also the consolation
that in that time no one else has.


Around Melbourne
SALT TEARS IN THE SHIRAZ
I>ack in the ’nineties when the good
Queen Victoria was alive we look-
ed through our wine glasses and saw
everything in a rosy glow. We felt
there wasn’t the slightest doubt that
Victoria would become the vineyard
of the world. There were Whittlesea
clarets, Lilydale rieslings, Sunbury
hermitages, wines from Geelong and
Bendigo. Why, there were vineyards
all around Melbourne, in Ivanhoe,
South Yarra, and some good clarets
came from Caulfield. Heavens above,
once upon a time there was a fine little
vineyard on Punt Road Hill, just by
the Yarra.
W. S. Benwell in his book, “Journey
to Wine in Victoria”, records that in
1890 there were so many vineyards in
Victoria that a special committee of
inquiry was set up to advise on them.
They recommended the division of
Victoria into three wine regions:
“From the south Geelong, Whittle-
sea, Lilydale and Sunbury should
come the more delicate wines, chablis,
white hermitage, and the rest of the
blonde beauties.” Then from the north
Rutherglen and Wangaratta
would come the heavy artillery, the
ports, the sherries and the muscats.
From central Victoria would come
the clarets and the burgundies. As Mr
Benwell put it, when the Queen died
Victoria's viticulture very nearly died
with her. Phylloxera cleaned out
famous vineyard after famous vine-
yard.
With all this bounty of wine, of
course, there were wine saloons every-
where. But as the wine declined so did
the saloons. In 1917 there were 273
wine saloons in Victoria. By 1935
there were only 159; and now, my
wine-loving friends, there are only 51.
After December 31 there will be none.
The axe has fallen. State Cabinet has
decreed that they must either convert
into licensed restaurants under the
terms of the Act or they may hold
licences to sell bottles of wine, cider
and perry between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m.,
not to be consumed on the premises.
No, perry is not my bad typing for
sherry. You have forgotten, haven't
you? Perry is pear cider. Many sal-
oons will simply close down forever.
You see, most of the 51 saloons have
neither the space nor the money to
convert into licensed restaurants. As
for wine and perry, there’s no money
in selling that by the bottle. You get
your money selling by the glass with
the dear, old fourpenny dark, now
mostly a sixpenny or a sevenpenny
dark.
The trouble is that these old-time
saloons have a certain reputation.
They call them the plonk shops, the
home of bombo and steam, the one
place where you can go round the
world for sixpence. Some of the
saloon keepers are terribly hurt by
the Government's action, and the
things they are saying about Judge
Fraser and the licensing court would
turn your face the color of a good
cabernet-shiraz. Our saloons fill a need,
they say. Who will look after the
poorer classes now? You see, the sale
of methylated spirit will go up.
course, the most famous, the
most distinguished of all wine
saloons was Jimmy Watson’s in
Lvgon Street, Carlton. Jimmy was
one of the few men who could demon-
strate how drinking wine was a lot
of fun. He was large and hearty, and
although he was worth more than
£BO,OOO he always wore one of those
brewery wagon driver’s large leather
aprons.
His gift to all of us was his mar-
vellous knowledge of Australian wines.
He used to buy by the hogshead and
sell us that wine at 4/- a bottle and
sixpence a glass. There were no pro-
prietary wines in the place, and he
refused to sell by the flagon . . .
“If you do that the galahs only take
it home and expect it to stay good for
a week.”
Well, Jimmy died in February last
year. Over 1000 people went to his
funeral, and his customers, “the friends
of Jimmy Watson", thought so much
of him that they gave £7OO for an
annual wine trophy at the Royal Mel-
bourne Show. Jimmy’s son Allan is
now carrying on, and this week your
pioneer went out to Carlton to get a
report on the metamorphosis, on how
J. C. Watson's is faring and will fare
under the new licensing laws.
The change is profound. It has
been completely Boydised. That is,
Robin Boyd has redesigned the place
inside and out. There are only two
colors, white and aubergine. This aub-
ergine was a matter of great research.
They wanted a color that looked just
like the inside of a wine vat, so you
get a brown, dried-up purple. And, of
course, all Jimmy’s lovely, execrable
old signs and pictures have gone.
As for young Allan, he has the
same approach as his father. He also
forgets much of the time to take the
money, and the claret is still sixpence
a glass and madeira threepence .. .
“Dad’s old cry used to be ‘ ’Oo'll
have a threepenny madeira?’ I just
didn't have the heart to put up the
price.”
He says that they closed for the
renovations last September. The
wreckers were due to come in at noon
on the Saturday. He opened a few
bottles of champagne just to say fare-
well. Then it was on. Nobody would
go home, and the wreckers had to join
in. There were sentimental cries:
“We'll never see that picture again.”
... “The clock will never be there any-
more.” Tears were falling into the
shiraz.
To turn the place into a restaurant
under the terms of the Act, Allan had
to provide seating accommodation for
about 45, and instal high-quality
women's and men's lavatories, in-
cluding a fancy yard-wide aluminium
urinal.
Part of the ceiling has been ripped
out, so that now there is a gallery up-
stairs with five private dining rooms
One room is set aside especially for
a group of university professors, doc-
tors and professional men. This is
known as the House of Lords, and the
room has the lovely dingy quality of
the old days. They disapprove rather
of a Monday lunch club next door,
whose room has been furnished with
a showy table and candle brackets.
Everything now is splendidly anti-
septic, but you can still cook your
own steak outside and slosh it down
with wine.
Allan said: “I wish Dad could see it
as it is now. I think he’d approve. Oh
gee, ... I don't know .. .” Many of
the old regulars aren't sure either, but.
if you can kill off sentiment, it is im-
mensely more comfortable.
As I was leaving I had a glass of
port with a bearded character who
looked dreamily out of the window and
said: “Mmmmm, I wonder how the
poor are doing.”
BATMAN


■ V \
W-
m \x
■fe\\ e
iXWvvSMW.
Vpl; ~
i:
# / i
\
v
>* > ,<<
nothing
i'VTviX
*
stronger
w • f }
then
STEEL
"■••<,v i.
; A'; V>
Aii: U
, l . 1
""-
r j
%
?■■ j
J wJ
f.L,.... ' '^•-....
A XL
Ar:~
3^
ATr
IB
, X s»* V;
\ \ * ' ' ; :&§88?v< ''
fH ? &p
-s • ■■
%#? rt n
H w I
\ A ‘if '%>
v " m - MtM
>'t:
AsSA
m i
;; ■
;jiu
r:'
ii
«*■
? :;SS
AS
A ;
AW WWW
/ Al
a«M
i\ \ ’
/ -<f.
S~}k«v-A
: . - . : '
V
X
rA
y.y. ••->•'•--• •
\\ \ \
\ v
'V.*-..%i. ...
>-
MXAW'' hi* l
x
i
■/Mri
S. -j
mam
V'
•:•'.••• •' ;
feSss®
i\\\ \ \ \ \
• \ S 1 \ \ •/
mi wmm
'- . ', > - i
i'm-. *v x&mm-iM
V X
V.A
; ' • V*
>: ;
¥:•: :■##?&
\\>x
5: \
MX
,\ \ \
v v\
■
S : i ■ i
•AX ,< s
Ib-^SSi
\ •
Post this coupon now for miniature portfolio of
LYSAGHT HOME PLANS
Your new home plan could be in this handy
little portfolio! Each one of these architect
created Lysaght plans is spacious yet can be built
at moderate cost. All offer interesting and attrac-
tive variations on the world-wide trend towards
lower-pitched rooflines . . . and are ideally suited
to the streamlined ‘new look’ of steel sheet.
Whichever plan you choose, there is no sub-
stitute for the innate strength of Lysaght Steel
Sheet. No other roofing material is as strong
a Lysaght roof is fireproof and weatherproof
with durability ensured by a protective heavy
zinc coaling of at least 1.75 ozs. per sq. ft.
Costs less than most other rooting materials
. . . needs little maintenance.
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited
50 Young Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free and post free, the
Lysaght Miniature Portfolio of Low Cost
Home Plans.
name
ADDRESS
.STATE
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Fremantle
DSACC


THE CODD AFFAIR
A SHORT STORY
by JOHN RICKARD
Iwas lying in my bunk, thinking. About what I don’t know. Probably the heat
which was stinking and the ship which was lousy. I reckon the Italia must have
been the only ship on the Australian run which was not air conditioned. To be
fair, the dining saloon was. As the rest of the ship was like a blast furnace this meant
that you spent a lot of time sneezing between courses. And the cabin I was sharing
was way down at about what I’d call migrant level. Boy, was I travelling cheap.
So was Mervyn, my unlucky cabin
mate. But then he was a mere eighteen.
I was in my late twenties. (One day I
thought I noticed my hair receding. Joe.
I told the character in the mirror, youth
is flying and you're now wearing that
sticky label, Late Twenties.) I didn’t have
any money, but then I had decided to
quit Australia in a bit of a hurry. Aus-
tralia, I thought, you’re a mob of
bastards. No, to be honest, there was a
girl too. I suddenly thought, like a char-
acter in a paper-back, that I’d get away
from it all. No more of those bloody
familiar faces. Goodbye Mum, goodbye
Dad I’m a big boy now. See you later
mates, say in about twenty years’ time,
when you won't recognise me. All very
sour. So that was how I came to be on
the Italia, and beginning to have second
thoughts. Oh for a good booze-up in a
shiny-tiled pub! On the ship I drank like
a fish, but 1 missed the draught beer.
And then being sick on the deck isn’t the
same as heaving it up in a good old Syd-
ney gutter.
But, like the smart alec I am, I wan-
der. I was lying in my bunk, as I said,
thinking. Mervyn was getting pretty to go
up on deck for a social sunbathe. He
had a lot of jazzy shirts which he wore
according to a roster. He also had a
pair of Mexican style sandals which
made him very happy, and which I told
him made him look like a Kings Cross
pansy. But then, as he pointed out, my
casual wear wasn’t beyond criticism: one
Hawaiian shirt with the world’s largest
pineapple on it, and four pairs of dis-
posal store khaki shorts.
Mervyn was now slapping himself with
after-shave lotion. In the hot cabin it
added to the general human stench. “You
look fine, Merv,” I told him.
Mervyn eyed me with a certain con-
tempt. “You ought to get out in the
sun more. You miss out on all the best
things of sea travel,” he moralised.
“Thank you, Merv.” I flicked some
cigarette ash on the floor. Mervyn notic-
ed this with some distaste. “Now Merv
old boy, don't pull faces. Lui will be in
soon to clean up this brothel.”
“I wish you wouldn’t call me Merv all
the time. My name’s Mervyn.”
“Sorry, Merv-yn.”
He was now ready for the deck and
his public.
“See you later, Joe,” he said.
“O.K. and no pervin’, Mervyn.”
He looked pained. But I’d told him
before that if you had a name like Merv/
Mervyn you had to accept the obvious
rhymes. Nothing personal about it. Any-
way. all the word pervert meant to Mer-
vyn was probably a sinister vision of
public lavatories.
Mer/yn was gone and 1 was alone in
the sweat box. I’m a born spinebasher.
But before I had a chance to get any
further in my meditations Lui had an-
nounced himself.
“Ah, Mistah Joe,” he cried heartily.
He now quite enjoyed the daily ritual of
getting me out of the cabin.
I gave Lui a sickly smile, and stubbed
out the cigarette in the ashtray which
was carefully poised on my stomach I
put the ashtray on the table. We were
now ready for the fray.
“You get up, huh?” he said, advancing
to the side of the bunk. He was wearing
his big silly grin.
I shook my head. “No, Lui.”
Lui grabbed my arm and tried to drag
me onto the floor. I swung round and
kicked him at an angle in the ribs. In a
minute I was on my feet and had Lui
twisted in a hainmerlock. He doubled up
screaming and giggling. A great maso-
chist, this Lui. I let him go and patted
him on the back. “O.K. Lui, it’s all
yours.” This daily scrap served the pur-
pose of waking me up.
Lui was straightening himself out.
“Aha!” he smiled. “But I win tomorrow,
huh?”
“Maybe. You’re coming along fine,
Lui.”
I grabbed my pack of cards and an
old Sydney Morning Herald and left him
to it. Poor old Lui had a hell of a time
cleaning up our cabin, so I felt obliged
to hang around to give him this little
workout which he obviously enjoyed.
The pack of cards was my one essential
piece of travelling equipment. Fact is, I’m
a bit of a cardsharper. Not that I’m a
fanatic. As it happened the cards were
beginning to bore me, but I couldn’t
afford to be without them: they were
paying for my drinking expenses. I
wandered on deck. The swimming pool
was thick with the younger set who were
indulging in their daily high jinks. Mer-
vyn was sitting on the side of the pool,
nonchalantly dangling his feet in the
water. He hadn’t quite made the grade
for the younger set. After Singapore,
where a few were to drop out, there
might be a vacancy. Meantime Mervyn
was biding his time.
I grabbed myself a deckchair and set-
tled down It was too windy to bore my-
self with patience, so I passed the time
reading the In Memoriam advertisements
in the classified section of my Herald.
These always appealed to me. I used to
get quite a kick from the little poems
about life beyond the sunset. And the
constant refrain of Always Remembered.
“We will always remember the way
you looked, the way you spoke and
smiled,
The little things you said and did,
are with us all the while.’’
Sometimes that last line sounded quite
cynical, depending on how you took it
(When I was very bored 1 used to con-
duct my own Top Twenty with the old
favourites to see which turned up most
often.) I was imagining an In Memoriam
for myself.
“Dear Joe you were a helluva bloke.
Your falling asleep was a bloody
good joke,”
There was more to come, but 1 was
interrupted by an imperious voice coming
from the general direction of the sun.
“Excuse me,” it said, with little icicles
dangling from each syllable, “but that
deckchair is mine.”
I looked up. It was a honey blonde,
hair up, say thirty-three (I’m good on
ages), with high cheek bones and a
snobby sort of nose. I craned my neck
around to examine the name plate on
the back of the chair.
“Your name isn’t Miss Codd, is it?”
“Of course it is,” she snapped.
I crawled slowly to my feet. “Well


CUSTOMER SERVICE
MS
rx
S' x s
mm
■ ■
sss„
■s X X
REPORT GENERATOR
: :
■ s
■ s. j;
£ :v
f-s 3.
■' V.'S«
1401
L hysic u Planning
m* cc
-■'V
oo
■3s
■
3 ; ’ '
.
IS
.
-• :
i, ■'
■
’A tP,
•At/*
•j*-CR
£*Q
• < •■
&
Getting the very most from a Data Processing System
At IBM, service goes beyond just keeping present equipment functioning properly. We recognise that
equipment alone is of little value without expert human direction to help realise its full potential, and every
effort is made to help users of IBM equipment constantly improve the productivity of their systems. For
example, the IBM program library helps reduce your programming time. IBM helps train your personnel
in the efficient operation of your system. IBM continues to analyse your needs even after your system is
installed and helps you take advantage of new systems’ features as they are developed and as your needs
change. IBM representatives help reduce change-over costs by providing you with tested planning procedures
and guides.
When you employ an IBM System in your business, you can be sure of
the support of an organisation of men and women trained to make certain
you get the most from your data processing investment.
IBM AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED. IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES


I'm real sorry. I had no idea you were
Miss Codd at all.”
“There’s no need to be rude,” she re-
marked as she occupied the deckchair.
I shuffled around but did not imme-
diately evaporate as was apparently ex-
pected. “Excuse me,” I mumbled, check-
ing through my pack of cards, “but I
think you're sitting on my Ace.”
She looked a bit irritated by this new
effrontery.
“Honest,” I explained, with my extra
special sheepish grin, “you can’t play
patience with three Aces.”
Without rising she placed her hand
under her behind and to her own annoy-
ance magically produced an Ace. There
was some laughter from the younger set.
“Take your Ace,” she said in a loud
voice, “Now run off and play patience
somewhere else.’’ With this she ostenta-
tiously picked up her book a Penguin
“Sons and Lovers” and, presumably,
went on reading.
“Strike a light,” I said, hands on hips,
and being the full digger, “the Queen
of Sheba's taken up residence!”
nPHis remark should have been the cue
for general applause, during which I
could have swaggered away, happy with
having the last say. This matter of the
last say always counts a lot with me. In
actual fact the crowd took their cue
from Miss Codd. She put down her “Sons
and Lovers” very deliberately, her nose
quivering slightly. “Please go away,” she
said.
And that was that.
I stomped off feeling a mug, and re-
solved the matter in some good hard
drinking. I discovered that Miss Codd’s
name was Elizabeth, that she Was unmar-
ried (obvious), and that she was a fash-
ion executive. Why the hell I was inter-
ested I didn’t know. It was hardly that
I liked this Codd woman: but somehow
her frozen Queen of Sheba manner had a
fascination for me. It made me feel
indecent about her.
The rest of the day passed off in an
alcoholic blur. I remember giving a
mighty sneeze at dinner and knocking
the wine decanter for six. The tablecloth
was slowly going purple, and I set to
work covering it with salt. This must
have occupied me for some time. Then
I wondered why the food was salty.
After dinner I was horizontal in my
bunk when it became clear to me that
there was a lot of noise roundabout. The
cabin seemed to be moving around more
than was necessary. In the distance I
could hear the pleasant sound of breaking
crockery. At long last the message reach-
ed me that the Italia had struck a patch
of bad weather.
Not long after I had registered this
Mervyn staggered in. “Hell!” he said.
“It's a bloody tornado I think.”
“Don’t swear, Mervie,” I slurred from
the bunk.
“Are you drunk again?” Mervyn
always began to sound like a corporal
when I was on the booze. Mervyn would
have made a very good corporal.
I nodded sleepily.
“You made a bit of a fool of yourself
this morning didn’t you?” Mervyn was
really getting cocksure now.
I said a few four letter words about
dear Miss Codd and fell asleep. When I
awoke again it was to the musical noise
of Mervyn retching in the basin. It
sounded like the end of tnc world.
“Ah shut up, Merv,” I mumbled un-
kindly and went to sleep again.
Next morning the going was still rough.
Mervyn was prostrate in his bunk, his
face set in pale green grief. Somehow the
sight exhilarated me I had a headache
but otherwise felt all right. I got up, dres-
sed, even brushed my hair. I started
whistling. My whistle is very highly de-
veloped, and is best appreciated by dogs,
who cringe as soon as it hits the atmos-
phere. Human beings find it a bit shrill.
Mervyn whispered hoarsely: “Please,
Joe, don’t make that sound.”
I felt quite sorry for the kid. “Merv,”
I said brightly, “It's a question of mind
over matter. If you get up and about
you'll feel much better.”
“No I won't,” he said bleakly.
“I'll bring you some apples and bis-
cuits. That’s the stuff they feed you
with.”
Mervyn made no comment and quietly
embraced his pillow. I thought I’d leave
him to it. Besides the cabin smelt. I
threw a bit of Mervyn’s after-shave
around and, smiling defiantly in the
mirror (you’re a pretty tough customer,
Joe), dabbed a bit on myself.
I thanked Mervyn's back, and slowly
began the climb upstairs to the dining
saloon for breakfast. In spite of the
racket of the ship there was a great lack
of human noise. I gripped the handrail as
the Italia lurched again and thought it
was all very nice. That was the whole
thing, I decided: I just didn’t like all these
people. The sight of gaping corridors,
deserted vestibules and wide empty
lounges was a pre-breakfast tonic. Arriv-
ing at the saloon I found I had an
appetite. Several stewards applauded as
I hurtled into the saloon with the pitch
of the ship. I acknowledged this with a
Queen Mother wave of the hand, and
ordered preserved fruits and omelette
and bacon. This was about a maximum
breakfast on the Italia. Getting bacon
with an omelette was usually hard going
but today it was a cinch. The saloon was
nearly empty.
Sucking a prune rather noisily I noticed
Codd at the far end cf me saloon. Then,
moment of moments, our eyes met.
“Hey, Miss Codd!” I yelled, as the bell
rang for round two. “Are you coming
up for a swim?”
For a minute I thought she would
ignore it. This might have occurred to
her, but then she threw caution to the
winds, and cupping her hands elegantly
around her mouth, she gave forth: “I’ve
been up already and the pool’s empty.”
I pulled a sour face and let it pass.
Codd was still ahead on points. On the
way out she tottered close to my table as
the Italia rolled. This time she gave me
an odd sort of look. As though she hadn’t
made up her mind about something.
She said: “I’m going up on deck to
see the storm.” And went out.
My toes tingled. Elizabeth Codd was
inviting me up on deck. It was an invi-
tation I could not refuse. A tomcat may
look at a queen, but when Her Majesty
actually says “Come closer” —well —.
I didn't hurry though. I carefully
finished my coffee and scraped the
crumbs off my plate. Then I took some
apples down to Mervyn, but he closed
his eyes and said he was asleep. I put
on a leather jacket for the weather and
went up on deck. I found her on the
promenade deck, examining the stormy
seas with a sort of scientific pleasure. She
was dressed for the occasion in a rain
coat with a scarf round her hair. She
acknowledged my presence and then
opened the conversation.
“I'm terribly bored with this trip. I’m
so glad for this rough weather.”
I nodded in agreement.
“These people are either juvenile
morons,” she went on, “or else they’re
elderly dears on a retirement cruise.”
“Yeah,” I said.
“Sometimes I wonder where the hell
all these interesting people get to who
are supposed to travel all the time. I
hardly ever see them.”
A great cloud of spray swept over us.
Codd took it all without flinching,
and licked the salty drops round her
mouth.
“The only reason I go to the dances,”
she resumed, “is to dance with the
officers. They’re attractive. And ex-
tremely good dancers. But what makes
it really bloody is having to put up with
too many damn kids. I rind it very hard
to be polite sometimes.”
There was plenty I might have said
about that but I kept my mouth shut.
Frankly, I wanted to see how long the
monologue would last.
“There is going to be a pyjama party


WHATEVER THE FIRE HAZARD ■ , ~
WHEREVER THE LOCATION . ■ .
WHATEVER IS TO BE PROTECTED ■ ■ .
GRINNELL
MINERVA
MULSIFYRE
WALTER KIDDE
NATIONAL
FOAM
GRINNELL
Automatic Sprinkler
and Fire Alarm
Systems.
MINERVA
Fire detection by
Nuclear Science.
WALTER KIDDE
Carbon Dioxide
Systems.
The MULSIFYRE
System.
NATIONAL
Foam Installations.
n
BROTHERS
has the complete range of
fire
PROTECTION
Many different hazards call
for varying methods of fire
detection and protection.
To answer this need Wormald
Brothers produce automatic equipment to provide
complete protection against all fire risks
across the nation. Wormald Brothers engineers
will discuss your particular risks and advise
on the perfect protection for each.
UtiHaaa
WB
friwrr mir rrrrmpvy-,
GSI.FP
WORMALD BROTHERS
FIRE PROTECTION ENGINEERS SINCE 1889


Petty at the theatre
"... Sometimes I envy you, Gotby... going home
after the first act.. .!"
"Did you notice the new ballet girl?"


in two days time,” she said with a shiver.
“I only hope this weather holds out long
enough to kill that little idea.”
More spray.
“I’m a fashion buyer,” she said, men-
tally pressing a new switch. “What are
you?”
I shrugged at the ocean. “I’ve done
lots of things.”
“Oh,” she said, “one of those.”
“Yeah.”
Pause while another passenger hiked
past us.
“What I like about you,” she said with
a twitching sort of smile, as soon as we
were assured again of our open privacy,
“is that you’re the image of a cartoonist’s
drawing of what an Australian should be.
I was annoyed. This seemed below the
belt to me. I may be no oil painting, but
a cartoon is a bit rough.
“I hope you’re not annoyed,” she said
in a way that implied she was quite glad.
I took her slowly by the arm and drew
her towards me. I locked her in an
embrace and kissed her in an insolent
Robert Mitchum manner. Naturally she
objected and began to wriggle. But
she said nothing. Then I imagined she
must have pressed another switch be-
cause all resistance ceased. For several
minutes we stayed like this, while the
seas roared and the Italia ploughed on
for Europe. I counted about seven
lashings of spray.
When we called an end to the clinch
she was curt and a little embarrassed. A
little, I say, but not very. I almost felt
disappointed. She readjusted her scarf
and walked over to a stack of deck
chairs. “Let’s sit down,” she said
abruptly, and I obediently set out two
chairs side by side.
We sat there, looking out at the swing-
ing rise and fall of a vague grey horizon,
and held cold hands. What a sight that
must have been. It kills me every time
I think of it.
The funny thing was that while we sat
there the seas seemed to calm down. As
it happened, by the end of the day the
ship was back to normal. For two days
Codd and I reigned supreme. We did
everything together. Codd was not exactly
averse to liquor, and the return to hot
weather made us thirsty. But all the time
I remained genially sober and never
slurred a syllable. Neither did Codd, and
hell, how she talked. It was amazing. It
came out with the constant pressure of
a tap. It was as though she had been
saving all this up for a lifetime. She talk-
ed about men, women, books, clothes,
everything. I talked back. We insulted
each other with the greatest of pleasure.
For these two days we were the stars of
the ship, and, like the stars we were,
hardly noticed the attention paid to us.
But it was dear Mervyn who kept me
up to date with the general reactions.
Suddenly he became like a private
secretary to me. And Lui, of course,
poor boy, had to miss out on his daily
sparring. But Merv let him know what
was happening too. Meanwhile Codd and
I were busy conducting our two-day
marathon.
I can hear bits of the duologue com-
ing through now.
“As a matter of fact I don’t really
care for clothes much myself. I have to
be chic and that’s that. Jewellery is my
real weakness. I love jewels.”
“You don’t wear much though.”
“No. My fashion sense tells me no.
But I hoard them like a miser. Some-
times I’ve slept in diamonds. In summer
the cold glitter in the dawn is wonderful.”
We laughed together.
“But tonight I’ll wear the lot. Just to
show you.”
And she did. She came into dinner
like a Christmas tree, and jangled to
our table. (The Chief Steward had only
too readily placed us together.)
“And now take ’em all off, Codd,” I
told her.
She did, laying them out around her
soup plate, carefully telling me what they
all were and their approximate value.
My mind worked like a cash register
adding it up.
“And I warn you that if you try and
take one I’ll go straight to the Purser
and have you thrown overboard.”
“I suppose you’ve been to bed with
the Purser.”
“Yes,” and with a touch of pride, “1
was the first to go I think.”
The saloon was empty now. Several
stewards waited with patient interest It
took five minutes for me to clothe her
with the jewels again. She sat as still
as a dummy in a shop window.
“Thank you,” she said, quite graciously
when the operation was completed.
Sharing a deckchair at midnight:
“You have a very soft touch. I would
never have believed it. It’s very nice
being felt by you.”
“You’ve got good skin. A good pair
of tits too.”
“I’m a real D. H. Lawrence character
you know. I may be easy at times, but
at heart I’m a puritan with sex. It’s the
one thing I really worship. Don’t you?”
“My bloody oath.”
She took no notice of this. “I suppose
that’s why I seem cold at times.”
“You read too much. Give yourself
complexes.”
“What do you read?”
“The newspapers. That’s why I hate
travelling. Oh, and I like a decent book
of nudes now and then.”
“Anything else?”
“Paperbacks, because you can throw
them away after you’ve read them.”
“You don’t like your life littered with
literature.”
“Or before you’ve read them for that
matter.”
“Oh no I don’t believe it. You talk
too well.”
“Because I don’t talk like a book.”
“Please make love.”
Swimming in the early morning when
the pool was our own:
“If you held your stomach in you’d
look presentable. You’re quite strong.” (I
had ducked her very efficiently.)
“I’ve played Rugby League. Had my
picture in the paper. But I always used
to forget to turn up for training. They got
sick of me in the end.”
“What colors did you wear?”
“All white. We were the glamor boys.
I looked a real beaut.”
“I’m sure you did.”
“When I held my gut in.”
“One of my lovers took to bodybuild-
ing. He was a young executive. He said
he felt ashamed of looking skinny when
he was hopping into bed. But lifting all
those weights was too much for him he
was always asleep before he even had
his tie off. He lost out both ways.”
“What’s he doing now?”
“Well, one day I did him a little ser-
vice. I told him the real reason why he
was hanging around gymnasiums. Now
he’s one of the reigning queens of the
'Cross.”
Lying in my cabin, both warm and
sticky (I had asked Meivyn to vacate
the cabin for a couple of hours after
lunch he had looked at me with a
mixture of disgust, anguish and envy):
“You’re a bastard you know, Joe. The
type who never has a deckchair of his
own, and always pinches someone else’s.
And what makes you the bastard is that
you don’t think there’s anything wrong
about it. It’s just a way of being one up
on the mob. It satisfies your ridiculous
ego.”
“And you’re the type who always but
always has a deckchair. I bet you ran
up to a steward and booked yours as
soon as the ship went under the Harbour
Bridge.”
“Which proves we’re different.”
“Thank Christ.”
Two reflective cigarettes.
“You know it was getting so grim when
we left Perth that I was almost driven
to my last resort.”


«=aa»!
rlt '
lilirTiiiiiiliOMlriWX**
feVTlil |
lit 1
n
*T i#-
IBS
II j
'n
\\m
■
i \ m\
1 V ill
\ \\
l
\ \
l
r
ft
m\
w
~ 71
1 U«J
mnnt
r”7 r
n
Has your office
joined the revolution ?
Right now there’s a revolution going on in
offices all over the world. Administration, like
so many other fields, is fast taking advantage
of new techniques made possible through tech-
nical developments and creative thinking and
planning.
In the process tried and true methods of the
past are being replaced by new, better and
more economical ones. Fresh possibilities for
quicker and easier ways of doing many jobs
are continually being opened up. Methods of
handling paperwork for instance have come a
long way in the last few years.
Through world-wide 3M research the range of
Thermo-Fax machines can now do far more for
you than ever before. Not only do they copy
quicker and better on a wide selection of white
and coloured papers but they make possible
a variety of time and money-saving office sys-
tems that ensure greater efficiency. Thermo-Fax
brand copying machines have always set the
pace in the business communications field.
They can show you the way to join the office
revolution and keep up with modern trends.
3M representatives are always ready to discuss
creative ways of handling ycur paperwork.
■ngpMßH| TRADEMARK HHBH
Thermo-Fax
BRAND.
COPYING AND SYSTEMS PRODUCTS
FOR BETTER BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS
ANVdUIo:
2 WENTWORTH AVENUE, SYDNEY b 17-23 QUEENSBRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE, 5.C.4 a 9 NORTH TERRACE,
ADELAIDE a BOX 1834 W., G.P.0., BRISBANE a 238 LORD STREET, PERTH a 182 ELIZABETH STREET, HOBART
msa3l9o


“What’s that?”
“Well I’m thirty-four, you know. The
time when you can become a combined
mother and boyfriend. I was going to
pick on some attractive virgin of a
youth (I can usually tell if they’re vir-
gins when I dance with them) and
seduce him. Give him a sort of grand
Tea and Sympathy experience.”
“Would you like that?”
Pause for thought. “Probably not. But
I thought it worthwhile to find out.”
“I think you kid yourself, Codd.”
“I know my capabilities. I’m a success,
you know.”
“You’re a bloody pill to tell the truth.”
“Yes.” And with a smile. “1 rather like
you telling me.”
“I’ll keep at it, my love.”
“My love.”
And love went on as the knots slipped
by. Well, we kept up the pace for two
days and never flagged. Looking back, it
was a great athletic achievement. We
played fierce games of table tennis: she
had a vicious serve that put the fear of
God into me. I only just saved my face.
We tried scrabble, but when she started
criticising my words I grabbed the set
and threw it overboard. We danced
endlessly, cheek to cheek. She shouted
champagne. She read me bits of the
books she was reading. I asked for the
sexy parts and she obliged.
And suddenly there were teenagers hop-
ping around in pyjamas, giggling like
initiates before an orgy. The pyjama party
had come. We laughed like hell as we
saw them simpering upstairs, and together
we conducted a sex-appeal contest, both
judging our opposite sex. I found that
she liked the boys with sensual rather
than good looks You could almost see
her looking for a sullen bottom lip and
a pair of Elvis Presley hips. I began to
wonder what the hell 1 looked like, and
then comfortably remembered my
(slightly) receding hair-line. 1 was con-
vinced I was in a category all on my own.
I suggested going up to have a look
at the bedlam She said she didn’t par-
ticularly want to watch or take part in
it. Besides, she didn’t want to get her
black silk dress splashed. (It was a very
tight sexy affair, which looked as though
it might disintegrate if a little pressure
were applied in the wrong place.) I
said that if anyone splashed her I’d push
them in. On this basis she agreed.
The party was round the swimming
pool, of course, and the music was pro-
vided by rock n’ roll records. It was
obvious that the climax of the evening
was to be a general ducking of all those
in pyjamas, and the older passengers had
gathered in a stolid block at the other
end of the pool to watch this dull little
orgy. I picked out Mervyn there in
pyjamas. He was trying to look incon-
spicuous and succeeding only in look-
ing silly. It was clear from the way he
was eyeing the pool now and then that
he was living in mortal fear of being the
first to hit the water. Like a mug he
was waiting for the fatal hour to come.
We left the audience and joined the
pyjamas, and like a couple of squares
had a tight little dance. Codd was rather
quiet and I remember wondering if she
was tiring at all. Perhaps she needed
rewinding for another two days. No one
was taking much notice of us now, partly
because the original shock of the unlikely
romance was wearing off, and partly
because they were more interested in
pyjamas there and then.
Our idyll within the orgy was now
broken. Someone had been thrown in
the pool. This was certainly an early
start. I looked to see who it was, and
as the head came out of the water 1
recognised the unheroic features of good
old Merv. He looked ashamed, but re-
lieved that the ordeal was now over. Codd
moved a little closer to the pool to have
a good look.
Then it was on. Everywhere bodies
were tumbling into the pool. Several
couples were launched passionately
screaming and (so it seemed) necking
simultaneously. Some idiot made an at-
tempt to push me near the edge of the
pool, and I swung round, picking him up
in a fireman’s lift and heaved him in. He
made a very big splash. Codd looked
highly pleased and smiled.
And it was precisely at that moment
that my attitude to Miss Elizabeth Codd
changed. It was the smile I guess. The
way she approved of my demonstration of
strength and prowess. It crossed my
mind: you are of course a bitch, love.
So it was quite without thinking that I
walked slowly over to her, picked her
up in my arms, and then almost in slow
motion threw her lightly into the pool.
Only at the last moment did she appear
to realise what I was doing. There was
a tremendous shout at this. When she
came to the surface it was clear she was
furious. She was struggling with her
hair which had come down, and was
spitting out water in all directions.
Immediately the various pairs of male
pyjamas around me agreed that I was
fair game. I lashed out like a windmill,
ducking, tripping, swiping at all-comers.
By some feat I reached the railing. A
big flabby kid in a pink nightie was now
the main obstacle to my escape, and
holding onto the rail 1 pitched both
feet into his stomach. With a gasp of
winded surprise he sat down. In that
split second I could see Codd climbing
out of the pool, like a violated mermaid
in her wet and torn black dress. For a
moment I was sorry for her. But it
never crossed my mind to regret throw-
ing her in.
Now before the next relay of at-
tackers could grab me I vaulted the rail
and via a lifeboat reached the deck
beneath. I walked the deck, nursing my
wounds. There was still plenty of noise
coming from above, but I later found
out that the focus of attention had
dramatically switched to the Chief Ste-
ward. Mervyn was trying to push him
in.
T looked at the sea, which was now so
tame, and remembered that wild
morning on the deck. One thing was
clear: it was all over. Codd would never
go near me again. The public ducking I
had given her was a virtual knockout.
The bout was well and truly over. The
only time we could meet again would be
in the circumstances of a grudge match.
I didn’t even stop to think if for two
days I had really loved her. Feeling very
tired I went down to the cabin and slept.
There is an epilogue, of course,
although not quite along the lines of
“Always Remembered”.
Some days after Singapore (we saw
each other in Change Alley she buy-
ing a camera, me underpants and
both about turned) I was on the spine-
bashing lurk again. Mervyn was putting
on his pretty shirt for the day. I noticed
he was getting a bit uppity with me
again.
“They think you’re a loonie, Joe, the
way you go on. Ever since the pyjama
party you’ve done nothing but sleep and
drink.”
I let this pass. “How’s the mob?” I
asked. Since Singapore I gathered that
Mervyn had graduated to the Set.
Merv looked disinterested. “I don’t
bother with them much now. They’re a
lot of dopes.”
I raised an eyebrow. “Dopes?”
“Yeah,” said Mervyn, “they’re all in-
secure.” He sounded confident about it.
He picked up his sunglasses and a
Penguin and gave himself a final check-
up in the mirror. I noticed that the
Penguin was “Sons and Lovers.”
“Hey, Mervyn,” I said.
Expecting some cute reference to
pervs and pervin’, he put on his pained
look.
“She’s got a nice pair of tits.”
His mouth dropped open in horror
and he ran. 1 sighed. Sometimes it was
quite pleasant to think of frozen Codd.
And checking over my pack of cards I
lay there waiting for the morning dust-
up with friend Lui.


OVERSEAS
HAROLD WILSON
After Profumo - A Labor Prime Minister?
Interview With KENNETH HARRIS
Harris: Some men go into politics al-
most as a matter of course and some
go in because of some personal Damas-
cus. Why are you in politics?
Wilson: I suppose the short answer
is because politics are in me, as far back
as I can remember. Farther than that:
they were in my family for generations
before me, as they were in the families
of dozens of members of the Labor
Party. The first time I can remember
thinking systematically about politics
was when I was seven. I was in hospital
with appendicitis. My parents came in
to see me the night after my operation
and I told them not to stay too long or
they’d be too late to vote —for Philip
Snowden. Then when I was 10 I went
to West Australia where my uncle was an
Australian MP and later on President
of the Upper House. That was my first
visit to a politician.
Harris: Does the religious side of the
inheritance mean anything to you today?
Are you a religious man?
Wilson: I have religious beliefs, yes,
and they have very much affected my
political views. But I'm no theologian. I
didn’t think my views out until a few
years ago when a Sunday newspaper ask-
ed me to write an article on the subject
of “Why I believe in God”. I’d taken my
own religious views for granted, rather
as I’ve taken my political views for grant-
ed —I’d never had any emotional or in-
tellectual crisis which made me think
them out.
Politics seems to me to be applying
values which we take for granted in per-
sonal life, such as being good neighbors,
to the bigger broader problems of group,
and national, and international relation-
ships. In my early twenties I got a bit
rebellious and had a dreadful row in the
“Christian World” I felt the Church was
too obsessed with personal vices such
as drink, and not concerned enough
with social evils such as unemployment
and poverty.
Harris: Does your religion exclude
notions about God?
Wilson: Oh, no! This was the problem
I had to deal with in that article. In it
I referred to my mother who had died
two years earlier. I was very fond of her.
I found I couldn't believe and I
reckon I’m a pretty rational kind of man
that death was the end of my mother.
I simply cannot believe there is NOT
some kind of an after life. And if there
is an after life, then the idea of God,
and then of Christ, is relatively easy to
accept.
Our senses are limited to five and we
can no more perceive religious realities
than, say, a man born deaf can under-
stand music, and a man born without
sight can understand what color is. They
will accept that these things exist. They
can’t know them —they have to depend
on faith. We are in the same position
with religious realities. But a faith, a be-
lief, which doesn’t express itself in ser-
vice seems pretty dubious to me. I’m not
going to be so arrogant as to say that
every Christian in politics must belong
to my party. There are profoundly relig-
ious men in the Conservative and Liberal
parties who believe that their party re-
presents the political fulfilment of their
religious views.'
Harris: What was your father?
Wilson: You might describe him as a
white coat worker. He was an industrial
chemist working in a laboratory in a
long white coat, somewhere between a
foreman and a research chemist. He
started with a firm called L. B. Holliday,
and eventually became absorbed into
ICI.
Harris: I read somewhere you had in-
herited a remarkable memory from him.
Apparently you never forget anything you
have read. Photographic memory?
Wilson: I wish it were true. In some
ways my memory is hopeless. I could
never learn poetry, never memorise any
kind of prose text, in fact, anything
visual at all, such as maps. Remembering
faces is supposed to be a must for poli-
ticians, I'm afraid I’m not very good at
faces, either. But I have got this peculiar
memory—it's nothing to do with intel-
ligence just a matter of mental
mechanics for dates and figures.
Harris: Can you give me an example?
Wilson: Well, I know that the first
time you and I met was October 30,
1956. I was having a meal with a friend
of mine last night and he mentioned my
going to see him once at his country cot-
tage several years ago. The date came
into my head immediately: May 8, 1948.
I don't have to think about it, you under-
stand; it just comes into my head. Just
before I was elected Leader of the Party,
the Prime Minister, talking about defence,
quoted something he said Hugh Gaitskell
had said. I got up at once, said he had
misquoted Hugh and gave the date and
number of the column in Hansard where
he would find the correct version. I find
now that my memory is net as good as it
used to be for this kind of thing. After
a period of 10 to 15 years I can be 48
hours out either way on a date, though
1 am still pretty accurate on my figures.
Harris: Have you inherited anything
else from your father?
Wilson: A good constitution. There’s
never anything wrong with me that eight
hours sleep won't cure. One of my greatest
pieces of luck is that I can sleep on a
train very easily. Physical health is
enormously important in politics, and
I am glad to say I don’t think it is going
to worry me.
Harris: Why did you decide to go into
Parliament?
Wilson: I was a temporary Civil Ser-
vant during the war. I worked very
closely with four Ministers. Two of
them one was Labor, one was Con-
servative got things done. Two of
them, one Labor, one Tory, didn't. They
were all getting the same quality advice
and information from their Civil Ser-


Ten years from now
When you choose a
Mercedes-Benz you know you are buying a car of supreme
quality. One that is unaffected by the changing whims of
fashion. Its classic beauty of line is ageless . . . ten years
from now you will still be proud of its distinguished looks,
driving ease, and matchless performance. Mercedes-Benz
is truly a sound investment in prestige transportation.
mercede s-benz
: ' : . s "’i” "i. ’-^x- '.
S*s:::d!iiisSS"”;:s!!!ssseslS?lss**itSins^i:::?si;sis:r! , .: ,, .»uin«ii»UtiSi«
ipgl»»li;sSs!!
Hill!!!
V
•!!'.!:iiMHKUUitSi l!s:s::!«e:i
ill;
:
m
< ; -31«I|»52:S B !!2
iiiiSiiii
■
HMKi
If'ufci
lliiMUiuuiluinSiiifM
i
ISlUlflla
Ill'll
. i
lllsllil:!
ill!!
Ilillf
i
m
, / _
is
i
8818
M
111
: V
i»s*
1
sill
imi
BiSB
462/54*
vants, but, as I say, two got things done,
two didn’t.
I saw that in spite of the importance
of the Civil Service the role of the Min-
ister was crucial. Under a strong Min-
ister things got done. Under a weak one,
they just didn't. If you wanted to be sure
of getting things done, you had better go
into politics. Of course, I didn’t know
whether I would ever be a Minister
perhaps not for 20 or 30 years. Quite
apart from this fundamental and very
formative personal lesson, I found that
experience of the Civil Service invaluable.
Harris: Incidentally, do you think the
General Election may be won on foreign
policy?
Wilson: No. Not won on foreign
policy. General Elections can be lost on
foreign policy, but not won. Your foreign
policy has got to make sense to people,
and if it doesn’t you’ll lose. And your
shadow Foreign Secretary must inspire
trust and a feeling that he is sound and
responsible. The decisive issues are
usually domestic. It was the Tories’ line
on domestic affairs which got them in in
1959. It’s our line on domestic issues
that will get us home this time.
Harris: Who had personal influence
on you at Oxford?
Wilson: Beveridge. I was his assistant
his research assistant for a couple
of years before the war. I went to Jesus
on a history scholarship, but 1 read Phil-
osophy, Politics and Economics, and
economics became my field. Beveridge
had a lot of influence on me. For in-
stance, he taught me to work hard. I
thought I knew what hard work was long
before I met him, but I found I hadn’t
really started.
I went off for two or three months with
him to a cottage each long vacation to
help with research. He was working on
the problem of unemployment. Beve-
ridge used to get up at 6 a.m. and go
for a swim. At seven we sat down at the
same table and worked solidly till nine.
Then we had breakfast. When I say work,
I mean work. Slide rule in one hand,
pencil in the other, making seasonal cor-
rections of the 100 Ministry of Labor
listed industries. After breakfast we
would work on to lunch, then on through
the afternoon to dinner time. In the
evening we’d play bridge. That was the
part of the day I dreaded. Lady Beve-
ridge was a very formidable and critical
partner, and I was not very good.
Beveridge was a difficult man, you
know difficult to get on with and in-
tolerant of inefficiency or sloppy think-
ing. In a way it was best to keep work-
ing with him; being engrossed and ex-
tended, he was easier to get on with.
Harris: Did you learn anything from
him about unemployment?
Wilson: Yes, and much of it is still
relevant. I learnt something too about
the weakness of a dedicated scholar and
administrator. I’d realised for some time
that he hadn’t grasped the fact that un-
employment on the scale and of the kind
he was dealing with was a built-in factor
of the pre-Keynesian economy—not an
unfortunate accident, frictional, or any-
thing like that, but positively built in.
I remember his face, very puzzled,
one day after he had visited a camp for
unemployed men. He said he couldn’t
understand why decent able-bodied men
like the ones we had seen could be out
of work. He didn’t want to face the real
problem. He wanted to think in terms of
frictional unemployment. My father was
out of work at the time. I remember once
or twice helping him fill out application
forms two fingers on the typewriter.
I explained to Beveridge that my father’s
unemployment wasn’t frictional. He
didn’t realise—until much later —that
there was a fundamental problem of
under-demand in the economy.
One thing I learnt from him was that
a great man does his own work. His own
essential work, at any rate. Beveridge
had his research assistant, but only so
that more could be done than he could


's*
9
H
M> * %
mm
***
M 1 ,g ffte**'
1 i *&L»sB
P
mm
&
\
Count-down at Canaveral
Burroughs guides missiles with the same accuracy as it
guides business through mountains of decisions
Executing a space shot is a task so
jnTmensely complex and subject to so
many split-second decisions that only a
highly reliable guidance system can do it.
So, the Burroughs guidance computer
system was chosen for Cape Canaveral.
In all, this Burroughs system has thus far
been used in more than 143 space explora-
tions, performing perfectly every time.
The same concepts of accuracy and
reliability in the Burroughs system at Cape
Canaveral are built into every Burroughs
business machine.
Be it computing, calculating, accounting
the Burroughs you select to help guide
your business, will provide you with up-to-
date information the moment you need it
to make the right decision . . . decisions
that will keep your business operating
smoothly, progressively, profitably.
Burroughs is the machine to grow with ...
8U175D
©
12 Key Adding Machine, or electronic
computer.. . whatever the need
there's a Burroughs business machine
to provide the answer.
Like to learn more of how Burroughs Machines
can benefit your business? Then call your
Burroughs man at— Sydney Metropolitan Area
76 William St. Phone 31-0541
221 Broadway Phone 61-9865
35 Burwood Rd., Burwood Phone 74-1256
Also at Newcastle, Lismore, Tamworth, Bathurst
Wollongong, Canberra, Wagga and Griffith.


do himself, not to save himself doing
anything. It’s always the same. Top
people do it themselves. The essential
work, I mean. But, as I say, more than
anything Beveridge reinforced my puri-
tan attitude to work.
Harris: When you say puritan . . .
Wilson: It’s not until very recently
a year or so ago, perhaps—that I haven’t
always been driven by a feeling that there
is something to be done and I really
ought to be doing it. I think it’s the old
puritan inheritance. I don’t make any
claims for it. But not until a year or so
ago could I sit down on a Sunday night,
say, pick up a book, a biography or some
historical essays, and sit back without
a feeling that I oughtn’t to be doing it.
Harris: Who influenced you after
Beveridge?
Wilson: Stafford Cripps. Stafford was
a great man. His personality was tremen-
dous and his. moral approach stood out
in all he did. I was terrified when I had to
succeed him. I tried to follow him in his
methods, but no one could live up to
Stafford. When I was dealing with a
problem I found myself asking how
Stafford would have dealt with it.
Then there was Attlee. A great Prime
Minister. The story of Attlee has yet to
be told, though 1 think the public has
been getting a fuller notion of his real
contribution to history in the last four
or five years.
Harris: It is true that as leader of the
party you are modelling yourself on him?
Wilson: I should like to feel that I
was. I learnt a great deal from him. I
think I’m driving the party on at a faster
rate than Clem did at the moment.
His method was to sit and listen and then
say, “We seem to want it this way.” I
talk more, far too much in fact, put
more cases, am more positive. But the
circumstances are different.
Attlee had a number of strong and
potentially if not actually con-
flicting personalities in his Cabinet
Bevin, Cripps, Dalton, Morrison, Bevan.
Attlee could drive all right, but the im-
portant thing for him was to keep them
all in harness. And it was a tremendous
achievement. An extraordinarily tough
and subile character. I’ve heard him cut
people down to size in Cabinet well,
you wouldn’t believe anybody could do
it.
If a Minister came in half a minute
late he would look up and say, “Mustn’t
waste Cabinet’s time,” or something like
that. Again, more than once, he would
listen to a colleague holding forth on a
certain subject, and then cut into what
he was saying, telling him in so many
words that he had come inadequately
briefed, was wasting the Cabinet’s time
and that this could not and would not
be tolerated a second time.
But what I admired most about Clem
was his self-control, and his superb
power to switch off and relax. Not self-
control, perhaps; nerve.
Harris: Did anybody else influence you
personally?
Wilson: Nye.
Harris: How?
Wilson: It’s very difficult to abstract
from Nye's influence on one. It was the
whole man, you see. He taught me the
power of the public platform. I wish
I had a tenth of his power on the public
platform. And he corrected my interest
in detail. Nye always took the broad
view.
In many things he was lazy, and avoid-
ed detail, if he could, anyway, but he had
the gift of instinctively seeing the hori-
zon. He never failed to see the wood for
the trees. I regard him as the best-educat-
ed man I have ever met, particularly in
philosophy, but he could see everyday
political issues in their deep human per-
spective and he could communicate them
simply and instantly to anybody. He
never forgave me for having been an
economist still less for having been a
statistician. I remember him saying to
me one day: “What's your boy’s subject?”
(He was devoted to children.) I said
“Pure Mathematics.” “Yes,” he said,
“lust like his father: all facts, no bloody
vision.”
Harris: What do you see as your main
job as a leader?
Wilson: In power you mean, or in
opposition or generally?
Harris: Well, let’s say between now
and the next election.
Wilson: Yes. Well, in a word, to con-
tinue to extrovert the party’s energies.
This had begun under Hugh and was
under way when he died. As I say, we’ve
had a lot of heart-searching about values,
done a lot of homework about policies,
and this involved a lot of inward-looking.
Too much. The party became too intro-
verted. We are stronger for having done
it, but we were right to drop it when we
did.
Harris: By the way, what do you think
of Mr Macmillan?
Wilson: The cleverest politician of our
age. An adept politician, not a statesman,
not a great Prime Minister. A great party
leader in the Conservative context
yes. The man who could pick up the
pieces of the Tory Party after Suez and
rebuild them into a machine, making
pro-Suez noises and pulling out all the
time he’s no ordinary politician.
It’s not for me to say who should lead
the Conservatives in the next election.
That’s what’s so hopeless about the Tory
Party in 1963: the only leader who has
been able so far to hold them together
is a man who is complacent and out of
touch with the world we're living in.
But in parliamentary terms, he’s a
sportsman —that’s what I like about him.
He likes the cut and thrust of debate and
so do I. In the debate on the Selwyn
Lloyd crisis in 1961,1 made a very tough
speech. Their policies, it seemed to me,
had finally broken down, we had laid
ourselves open to the taunt of the “sick
man of Europe”.
He sat and listened to it all. I think
it really hurt. But when I sat down he
lifted his hands up and gave me the
boxer’s handshake. That was the parlia-
mentarian, with traditional parliamen-
tary generosity. I may make all kinds of
mistakes in the months to come. I shan’t
make the mistake of underrating him.
Harris: How did you feel about Ken-
nedy when you saw him in the spring?
Wilson: Well, you know the public
side of it. Personally, I enjoyed it very
much. I felt we were on the same wave-
length, of the same generation, and in
many ways with the same approach to
politics. The whole atmosphere surround-
ing him is so healthy and dynamic
all these able men drawn in from all
fields, especially the brains from the
universities, and all, comparatively speak-
ing, young men.
That’s one thing I regard as equally
essential for Britain. When Labor is in we
shall put the best brains in the country
on the job. We'll comb the country and
industry to do it.
Harris: How much does class figure
in your thinking?
Wilson: The Labor Party must repre-
sent the whole country. If you mean what
class do I think lam well* what is the
answer? Elementary school, Oxford
common room, what does it add up to?
There are millions of people trained,
skilled, professional for whom these
phrases about class are becoming more
and more meaningless. The white coat,
the growing technological character of
modern industry is making some of the
old battlegrounds unreal.
Harris: A last question, then. What do
you think you can offer the people of
this country which might win the elec-
tion?
Wilson: Well, it’s not what I can give,
but what the party I now lead can give.
I think v/hat we can give is what we are,
which is modern, up to date, living in
this day and age, in every sense of the
word.
The whole idea of giving a party a
modern image is unsound that’s some-
thing you can’t achieve by gimmicks.
The image you present in your shaving-
mirror is a pretty direct reflection of your
face. It’s the same with a party. What
we are dictates how we look. It’s the
people, the voters, who decide whether
you look modern or not and they know
that if you are modern you look modern
and that it’s not the other way round.
(OFNS>


:
Ift!
%
:
p ij” 1
3
ST
Mail us th|j
COUPON
We’ll send if
Australia
times a
V&'ia, past and P reS f,th’
teJJ y t° >ife each
Sefn S th of Walkabout. *
toreL™ rou Sh eyes of the (
a i
Phr r : en , ses of leading '
•hg 't's bigger, its n
tv a y. o t f han ever, its *
>ant V lfe magazine y
miss.
&nt
miss
All we need is your;
NAME:
ADDRESS:
CITY: STATE:
Anywhere in Australia: 12 issues,
£l/12/6 Remittance enclosed
Send me an account later.
Hand this coupon to your newsagent, or
mail to Walkabout, 18 Collins St., Melb.
MS 582
FORUM
A Consumers’ Report
on “Choice”
By ROSS PARISH
Product: “Choice,” journal of the Australian Consumers Association.
Verdict: ‘Choice” publishes comparative evaluations of different brands
of a product, based on objective tests and measurements. Its avowed aim
is “to enable us to get the maximum value for our money.” However , its
product comparisons are often of little use to the consumer. The products
tested are often insignificant items in the consumer s budget, the qualities
tested of little interest to consumers, the tests ill-designed, and the results
misinterpreted.
“ Choices” product-testing programme is obviously hampered by lack
of funds. This is a deficiency we might be inclined to excuse (even though
one cannot imagine “Choice” itself excusing a shoddy product on the
grounds that its manufacturer was hard up). But it is also clearly the
work of amateurs, of men who love their work but are not very good at it.
Secondly, “Choice” displays an incomplete appreciation of the con-
sumer interest. It seeks technical, rather than economic, efficiency. Its
recommendations tend to be brash and naive. It dislikes the “chaos” of
competitive markets and shows a tenderness for price-fixing arrangements.
It favors laws and regulations designed to maintain quality of products,
forgetting that, in practice, such regulations often restrain competition.
Thirdly, the magazine is intellectually
dishonest. Like the advertisers it casti-
gates, it attempts to project a brand
image. Just as men in white coats figure
prominently in advertisements for patent
medicines, so "Choice’s” tests —even the
simplest ones —are performed by "scien-
tists” or "engineers,” never by technicians
or mechanics. (It is just possible that
this claim is true: if so, it indicates a
considerable waste of scientific man-
power.)
Yet its actual performance belies its
pretensions to scientific objectivity: it
belittles statistical methods of enquiry;
its tests are often irrelevant or ill-design-
ed; it capriciously selects "best buys”; it
rapturously reviews the propagandist
tracts of Vance Packard, and in its dis-
cussions of economic questions it dis-
penses misleading half-truths. It demands
of manufactures far higher standards than
it attains itself.
Selection of Products
/Consumers are likely to value most
highly information concerning expen-
sive, new or infrequently purchased, pro-
ducts; or products w'hose qualities can-
not readily he assessed at the time of
purchase. The pre-eminent candidate for
testing is, therefore, a new model car
as is confirmed by the fact that cars are
the one product regularly tested by news-
papers and magazines.
On the criterion of expensiveness,
Choice’s selection of products is poor.
It has not tested any major domestic
appliance. The most expensive durable
it has tested is transistor radios. It has
not tested any cars. It does make avail-
able to subscribers at extra cost copies of
car tests made by its British counterpart,
Which. This is not a completely satis-
factory arrangement, since some of the
cars tested are not available in Australia;
most of the available ones have been
modified in various ways; and some of
the best-seller cars in Australia are not
available in Britain.
However, Choice’s selection of new or
infrequently purchased products for test-
ing seems reasonably intelligent. It has
tested vacuum flasks, electric torches and
quite a few smaller electrical appliances.
Even so some of the products tested, such
as aspirin tablets, instant coffees, torch
batteries and clothes pegs, have been
minor indeed, and others such as fishing
lines interest few consumers.
Qualities Tested
qualities of a product most valued
A by consumers are often the most diffi-
cult to measure objectively. A testing
organisation is, therefore, tempted to
compare products in terms of easily
measurable qualities which may be of
little relevance to consumers. For
example, instead of evaluating instant


a
9*
Q
s*o ■
6
6
6
FOR
COMPLETE
ORAL
HYGIENE
During business and
leisure hours, thoughtful
people benefit from the use
of ODOL.
A refreshing, protective
mouthwash, with a clean,
pleasant taste, ODOL . . ,
keeps the teeth healthy
keeps the mouth fresh
keeps the breath pure.
After each meal, sprinkle
a few drops of ODOL on
the tongue or gargle in
water . . . helps protect
against cold and decay-
causing germs, too!
Keep ODOL handy
wherever you go, and be
certain your breath won’t
offend.
m
MOUTH WASH
C 93
coffees in terms of a flavor or aroma—
which could have been done “subjective-
ly,” by a panel of testers Choice
measured their caffeine content and the
darkness of the brew they produced. Only
consumers for whom coffee represented
a caffeine “fix” would find this informa-
tion useful.
Again, in testing coffee-makers, Choice
pointed out that “the quality of coffee
is difficult to measure scientifically, but
there is no difficulty in measuring the
strength of an extract of coffee compared
with a complete extraction from the same
ground beans made in the laboratory
and this is what Australian Consumers’
Association testers did”. Since high ex-
traction is usually obtainable only at the
expense of flavor, the relevance of this
test is doubtful.
Adequacy of Tests
A major deficiency of Choice’s testing
procedure is the lack of proper
statistical design and analysis. Compari-
sons are frequently based on a single
sample of each product or brand tested,
or at best on averages calculated from a
small sample. A sample of one, or a few,
may be quite unrepresentative of the pro-
duct concerned, and tells us nothing, or
little, about how it varies. Yet without
some knowledge of variability it is im-
possible to decide whether product diff-
erences revealed by the sample are signi-
ficant in a statistical sense.
Samples adequate for statistical analy-
sis would be costly to buy, and Choice’s
resources are limited, so that its failure
to conduct its tests in a proper statistical
framework is understandable. Choice does
not make this excuse, however, and tries
to make a virtue of this deficiency: “We
can't test every sample of a product. We
report on the samples we test. We are not
interested in average quality we don't
want the consumer to suffer the same
fate as the statistician who crossed a
river with an average depth of two feet
and drowned!”
This “defence” is completely dishon-
est. The notion that “every” sample
should be tested is a straw man. The claim
that a consumers’ organisation is not
interested in average quality, while auda-
cious in its novelty, is belied in every
issue of Choice, where consumers are in-
vited to accept its findings as applying to
all samples of the particular brand that
has been tested. Finally if Choice were
really interested in saving the consumer
from the statistician's fate it would pur-
chase a large sample of each product
and report on the performance of the
worst example, but this it does not do.
(In fact, in testing the strength of ad-
hesives it reported the average of the best
two results out of three observed.)
When testing a product's performance,
Choice generally sticks rigidly to the
manufacturers’ instructions, even when
these are intended only as a guide and
even when they are clearly inappropriate.
In this respect, it displays considerably
less nous than the “average consumer”,
let alone the “intelligent consumer” to
whom Choice is addressed. Few consum-
ers sufficiently addicted to coffee to in-
vest in an electric coffee-maker would
follow the directions accompanying one
particular non-automatic percolator “to
percolate for 15 minutes”; yet Choice did.
Not surprisingly, this appliance showed
up well in percentage extraction, but
poorly in quality of coffee produced and
in economy of electricity use!
An ambitious experiment designed to
determine the “washing-up capability” of
44 different brands of detergents was al-
most completely vitiated by a slavish ad-
herence to manufacturers' recommenda-
tions. Each detergent was evaluated by
the number of plates that could be cleaned
satisfactorily in a sink full of water, con-
taining the manufacturer's recommended
amount of detergent. Recommended quan-
tities for liquid detergents tended to be
either about two teaspoons or two table-
spoons. (The latter is almost five times
the former quantity. As might be expect-
ed, all the liquid detergents having
“excellent” or “very good" economy rat-
ings were used in small quantity, while
eight of the ten rated “below average”
were used in large amounts. However, in
Choice’s report no mention was made of
this association between economy and
quantity used. The reader was encourag-
ed to believe that the experiment pro-
vided an objective measure of cleaning
power and economy: in fact it measured
neither of these qualities in a satisfactory
way.
Interpretation of Test Results
As well as conducting irrelevant and
ill-designed tests, Choice sometimes
fails to extract relevant inferences from
the information it does collect. A glar-
ing example is provided by its report
on prices and actual v. advertised weights
of packet detergents. This report em-
phasised the variability in weight and
the existence of some underweight sam-
ples, and made great play of the vari-
ability of prices from store to store and
the confusion engendered by special offers
and price reductions (9d. off; save 2/11,
etc). No mention was made of the facts,
which can readily be inferred from the
information presented, that though some
samples were underweight, the packet de-
tergents bought were on average over-
weight; that prices charged in chain and
department stores are generally lower
and often much lower than prices
charged by local retailers; that manu-
facturers' special price reductions seem
in the main to be passed on by retailers,
i.e., they are genuine; that most of the
variability in prices is explicable in terms
of type of store and the existence or
otherwise of a special price reduction.
Choice reluctantly (“we can only ad-
vise . . .”) recommended that consumers
shop around for detergents, but did not,
as it could well have done, specifically
advise its readers to shop at chain stores
and buy the “specials”. However, its
main recommendation was that consum-


Important Book Announcement
"FORCES IN AUSTRALIAN POLITICS"
In a constantly-changing international situation, which has
brought home to Australians the realization that they cannot
isolate themselves from changing power relationships, it is to
be expected that there will be questioning of our institutions.
Acceptance of the democratic way of life is not at issue but
does our parliamentary system work efficiently? Are party
policies realistic for the 1960’5, and is the party machinery
for changing policy effective and democratic? What are the
pressures on parties and on governments? And what about
compulsory voting, the swinging vote and the “donkey” vote?
These and other issues were discussed in papers at the 1963
Summer School of the Australian Institute of Political Science
which are now printed in this book.
"Forces in Australian Politics' 1 : Contents:
THE LIBERAL AND COUNTRY PARTIES:
Platforms, Policies and Performance Peter Coleman
THE LABOR PARTIES:
Platforms, Policies and Performance James Jupp
PARLIAMENTARY GOVERNMENT IN AUSTRALIA
H. B. Gullett
PRESSURE GROUPS Peter Westerway
THE ELECTORATE . . Joan Rydon
Edited by John Wilkes
Price 17s. (post lOd.)
216 pages
ORDER
TODAY
FILL IN
THIS
FORM
- - - - - ORDER FORM- - - - - -
AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTE OF POLITICAL SCIENCE,
Rural Bank Bldg., 34-38 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Please send me copies FORCES IN AUSTRALIAN POLITICS
Price 17s. (post lOd.)
NAME
ADDRESS
’please""send""cheque""or"POSTAL"note'"with"'OßDEß"(l7s."'lOd.j
ers should “flood the manufacturers and
the Press with protesting letters, demand-
ing that a fair price be set on all powder
detergents and made public; and that any
reductions made from time to time should
be genuine reductions from this basic re-
tail price.” Far from welcoming competi-
tion among retailers and manufacturers,
the Australian Consumers’ Association
wants it curbed!
er weig mg samp es o eggs, } ° ice
concluded that buyers of eggs graded
by the Egg Boards in all States are get-
ting average weights well above the mini-
mums specified and so are receiving quite
adequate value for their money." This
conclusion is not only an obvious non
sequitur, but, in the case of eggs, happens
to be untrue. Egg Boards keep the local
price of eggs at an artificially high level
by dumping “excess” supplies on the
export market. Choice’s silence on this
monopoly practice is at least consistent
with its distaste for the manifestations of
competition in the detergents industry.
Most of Choice’s product comparisons
culminate in the selection of one or more
“best buys.” However, except in the
rare cases where a particular brand is
superior in all respects and either no
dearer or cheaper than its competitors
(or equal to them), choice of a best buy
is strictly subjective. Some subjective
weighting of the various components of
“quality” and price is implicit in the
nomination of a best buy, and the con-
sumer who buys according to Choice’s
recommendations is accepting Choice’s
weighting, which may or may not coin-
cide with his own preferences. Many
consumers seem happy to do this, but
one wonders whether they always realise
what they are doing. In some cases a
particular product may be so markedly
superior that most reasonable people
would agree with it being nominated
best buy. In other cases determination
of a best buy may be essentially a capri-
cious matter. Choice seems altogether
too willing to designate best buys, doubt-
less because it realises that many of its
readers are too busy or too lazy to make
up their own minds on the basis of the
detailed information provided in the test
reports. If Choice were as “scientific,”
and objective as it claims to be, it would
bestow the accolade of “best buy” only
in exceptional cases, rather than follow
its present po i icy which is exactly the
reverse of this procedure.
evaluation of Choice has
S° , ’ our eva *uation ot Choice has
been in terms of its utility as a
shopping guide, and we have found it ser-
iously deficient in this respect. It is
clear, however, that its sponsors do not
conceive its function in such narrow
terms nor do its readers look to it merely
for information which will help them
make “good buys”. In response to a
questionnaire readers of Choice voted al-
mo? unanimously for “more exposure of
misleading advertising and sharp prac-
, and Choice has frequently featur-
ed exposures of various products or
practices.
Choice has checked the conformity of
many products with their makers’ claimed
specifications as to weight, measure or
other characteristic. In the majority of
cases, the product exceeded specifications
and only in very few cases did it fall
markedly short of specification. Choice
has uncovered a few cases of downright
false advertising, and has drawn atten-
tion to many more cases of exaggerated
or misleading advertising claims. It has
pointed out that certain products are
potentially dangerous in use.
In all of this Choice has performed
a useful service. However, one’s confi-
dence in the validity of some of its
“exposures” is weakend by the deficien-
cies in its testing procedures by the several
retractions which the journal has made,
and by the sensationalistic way in which
trivial exposure stories have been re-
ported.
An example of the latter was a report
worthy of an evening newspaper short
of copy under the heading Free Gift
or Food Contamination?, deploring the
inclusion of a plastic toy in a packet of
bacon rashers: no evidence that the in-
clusion of the toy resulted in contamina-
tion was presented. Choice tends to cry
wolf too often and too loudly, to wax
indignant over minor matters.
One of its hobby-horses is deceptive
packaging, but how many people are
really deceived and how important is
the deception— when tubes of toothpaste
are packed in rather large boxes? A lack
of a sense of proportion in matters of
this kind is not merely irritating; it can
lead to the making of highly questionable
recommendations.
In evidence before a public enquiry on
packaging, ACA recommended that all
manufacturers be forced by law to pack
their products in a standardised range of
weight and volume denominations. The
idea is to eliminate odd-sized packs
which make the task of price compari-
son difficult. This is a laudable aim but
it does conflict with the desideratum that
consumers have a wide range of choice
among package sizes. ACA also urged
that packaging standards should apply
equally to locally - made and imported
goods. This is a most dangerous recom-
mendation, since it could well result in
the exclusion of many imported goods
from the Australian market. But one can
imagine this suggestion being enthusias-
tically supported by the Chamber of
Manufacturers . . .


STUZZI
EXECUTIVE
RECORDER
v>
Wmma
O
FIRST WITH
BUILT-IN
MICROPHONE SPEAKER!
• One hour playing time !
• Size 4} x 3? x li inches.
• Weighs only 1 1 ozs.
• Remote control facility !
® Transistor operated.
PRICED NOW £3B/15/-
CONFERETTE
Office dictating machine. Battery
and Battery/Electric. From £66/8/-
plus accessories.
TELEFUNKEN
The world's finest tape recorder.
Automatic monaural, stereo, Domes-
tic or studio. From 125 gns.
For further information
POST THIS. COUPON!
W. C. WEDDERSPOON
PTY. LIMITED
193 Clarence Street, Sydney
Telephone 29-6681
name
ADDRESS
829663
(Interstate Distributor enquiries invited )
LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
WAR IN AFRICA?
Sir,
The ABC recently reported that the
Tanganyika Defence and External Af-
fairs Minister, Oscar Kambona, had
said in Dar-es-Salaam that war in Af-
rica was imminent, and that the near
future would see the capture of Johan-
nesburg by the “liberation” armies of
African states north of the Kalahari.
The feasibility of such action, though
slight, is certainly conducive to thought.
Tanganyika’s land forces currently con-
sist of three indifferently-equipped in-
fantry battalions (approx. 3500 men and
officers). A future federation of East
and Central African states could hardly
muster 10 battalions from their pres-
ent forces.
East Africa’s northern neighbors, how-
ever, fare slightly better. As a result of
generous US military aid Ethiopia has
a relatively plentiful supply of modern
weapons and a recently jet-borne air
force of some size. The Sudan Defence
Force receives substantial supplies from
foreign countries. The forces of the
Somali Republic are mobile, with a num-
ber of World War II tanks and car-
riers.
In the political sphere, Somalia fears
her hostile neighbor, Ethiopia, which
has not forgotten the invasion of her
sovereignty in 1935 by Somali-based
Italian forces. Their relationship con-
tinues to be irritated by ill-feeling over
the Ogaden grazing right issue. Somalia
and Ethiopia both have conflicting claims
to these rights. Kenya is at odds with
Somalia over the secession question, in-
volving Somalis living in Kenya’s north-
ern frontier district. The Sudan faces
potential civil war. The northerners (Arab
stock) are busy subjugating the African
peoples of her southern regions, where
martial law rules.
Should a settlement of these issues en-
able the formation of a unified force, it
seems at present doubtful whether an
East and Central African federation
would trust it to the extent of granting
it right of way through its territories.
Although Egypt presented an equable
front at the recent Addis Ababa Pan-
African Freedom conference, it will al-
ways be too engrossed in the United
Arab Republic and Israeli affairs to spare
significant military aid in support of an
enterprise not of immediate concern nor
profit to herself. The same applies, to a
lesser degree, to other northern and west-
ern Saharan states. Three of these, Sene-
gal, Guinea and Algeria have pledged
funds towards such a liberation move-
ment, but may be disinclined to provide
practical aid.
Ghana possesses a well-equipped and
mobile army and air force by African
standards, but hardly powerful enough
to constitute an invasion force. Nigeria,
under her present leaders, together with
her long British associations, seems re-
luctant to resort to violence in the settle-
ment of such issues. Finally, no navy
exists in Africa which would make pos-
sible a seaborne invasion of the South
African Republic.
And south of the copper belt lies
Southern Rhodesia. She could join South
Africa if the latter regarded the danger
from the north sufficient to require her
support as a “white” buffer state. This
alliance would depend upon Southern
Rhodesia’s future political status.
South Africa’s huge expenditure on
defence forces needs no mention. Many
divergent interests must be subdued be-
fore the Negro states can match its
fire-power and the determination of its
leaders to preserve it as a white state.
O. J. CORDELL
(Former District Officer,
Tanganyika Government).
Roseville {NSW).
MOUNT SCOPUS
Sir,
I have noticed, with some embarrass-
ment, that you reprinted some of my re-
marks on Mount Scopus College from
the “Jewish Herald'’ (15/6/63). The art-
icle itself was a summary of a rather
heated discussion of the Victorian Jew-
ish Board of Deputies in which I par-
ticipated, and the gist of it cannot be
understood by people who do not know
the context and the background. Since
the extracts which you reprinted may be
misinterpreted, please allow me to say:
(1) My observations about the socio-
logical characteristics of the Jewish com-
munity apply to any predominantly mig-
rant community; (2) my critical remarks
were not directed against the headmaster
and senior staff, but, rather, against the
mode of presenting the annual report by
members of the Board of Governors;
(3) people untutored in matters of edu-
cational sociology, and therefore likely
to make unfortunate statements on edu-
cational matters, are to be found on
most school boards.
Like most other active members of
the Jewish community, my sole interest
in Mount Scopus is to help make it a
good school. Considering the nature of
my community and its recent unspeak-
able past in Europe, it is, if anything an
outstanding achievement that such a
school could be launched at all. No use-
ful purpose can be served by subjecting
it to a public discussion.
FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
Melbourne {Vic).


“TROPIC OF CANCER”
Sir,
I find it extraordinarily depressing that
Dr Baldwin (15/6/63) cannot see the
difference between saying that genera-
tions of tourists have looked for porno-
graphy in “Tropic of Cancer” and saying
that Miller wrote the book as porno-
graphy; and that he should take as fan-
tasy what is commonplace: that for years
one of the trophies of a Paris visit has
been a copy of one of Miller’s banned
books; and that he should take my
references to Lawrence, James and Hardy
as attempts at proof which only long
quotation and analysis could begin to
attempt to be instead of the indica-
tions of standards of judgment which
I made it quite clear they were. All this
does help explain, however, why Dr
Baldwin refers to the writers Orwell
quotes as having praised “Tropic of
Cancer” when it first appeared Eliot,
Read, Huxley, dos Passos, Pound as
novelists.
Orwell’s comments, however, are worth
discussing. Near the end of his essay he
describes Miller as “the only imaginative
prose-writer of the slightest value who
has appeared among the English-speaking
races for some years past,” the years
being, say, 1935-39. But he immediately
agrees that even this is probably an
overstatement, and he has previously re-
ferred to Miller’s tendency “to slide away
into mere verbiage or into the squashy
universe of the surrealists.” Obviously
Orwell is in two minds, and the clue to
the explanation of this is to be found in
his remark, after listing the features of
the Paris Miller wrote about, that “it
is all there, or at any rate the feeling of
it is there” (my italics); Orwell was writ-
ing about the book he believed the times
needed, not the book Miller wrote. This
hypothesis is lent weight by the fact that
a large part of the essay is devoted to
the politics of blindness and the litera-
ture of non-participation, and by Or-
well's own repeated qualification to his
praise of “Tropic of Cancer”: “Its im-
portance is merely symptomatic.”
What Orwell thought he had found
in Miller was not merely a writer of
vigorous prose, but a man who wrote,
as Orwell himself did, what really hap-
pened; a man who knew life and was
honest, a man who was not afraid of a
dirty handkerchief. I would contend,
simply, that Orwell was misled: that
Miller’s prose is largely rodomontade;
that hardly anything does happen in
“Tropic of Cancer,” despite the sound
and fury; that Miller’s life, as revealed
in “Tropic of Cancer,” has the depth
and scope and weight of a layabout
sanitary man who has rejected Omar
Khayam’s philosophy; that what Miller
has to be honest about is a childish
pseudo-anarchism; that dirty handker-
chiefs are of no importance to the pre-
occupations of serious novelists. In 1939,
Miller broke wind and was found re-
freshing; today, and rightly, we again
demand more from literature.
PETER SHRUBB
Wahroonga {NSW).
{This correspondence is now closed.
Ed.)
THE MANDARIN STYLE
Sir,
In answer to Mr Roger McDonald’s
letter (22/6/63), which strives to point
out that I have misinterpreted Cyril Con-
nolly by saying that he called for a
Mandarin style, I would ask your cor-
respondent to have another look at
“Enemies of Promise”. If he re-reads the
relevant chapter, “The Cool Element of
Prose”, he will see that so far from
deploring Mandarin Connolly is call-
ing for the use of its best qualities (along
with those of plainer writers) in order
to counteract the contemporary decline
in language.
To cite a typical paragraph (followed
by a warning to avoid the worst dangers
of Mandarin): “At the present time for
a book to be produced with any hope of
lasting half a generation, of outliving a
dog or a car, of surviving the lease of a
house or the life of a bottle of champagne,
it must be written against the current in
a prose that makes demands both on the
resources of our language and the in-
telligence of the reader. From the Man-
darins it must borrow art and patience,
the striving for perfection, the horror of
cliches, the creative delight in the
material, in the possibilities of the long
sentence and the splendor and subtlety
of the composed phrase.”
CHARLES HIGHAM
Sydney (NSW).
AUSTRALIAN RULES
Sir,
I read with interest “Batman’s” article
on Australian Rules. Its popularity clear-
ly stems from its equal appeal to both
sexes, as the game is a hybrid deriving
from soccer and girls' basketball.
L. R. MELVILLE
Sydney (NSW).
FLUORIDE
Sir,
I cannot agree with the statement con-
tained in your leading article, “A Patient
Cheer for Fluoride” (8/6/63) that “their
(the anti-fluoridists) best argument is
based on the principle that all schemes
for mass-medication are bad.” This is an
important argument, but there are others
much more important. One of the most
important is that pro-fluoride campaign-
ers are prepared to mislead the lay au-
thorities and the public. They claim that
fluoridation is approved by the World
Health Organisation. It is not. A com-
mittee report favoring fluoridation was
offered to the WHO, but it was not
adopted. It was published, but carries the
notation that it does not represent the
stated policy of the WHO. They claim
that the American Medical Association
recommends fluoridation, but the Legal
Officer of the AMA has stated in writing
that they make no guarantee concerning
the safety of fluoridation. In actual fact,
paragraph 5 of the AMA Report states,
“What is reported as reduction may ac-
tually be a postponement in the recog-
nition of caries.”
Those who wish to impose fluoridation
urge that most major cities, scientific
bodies and modern dental experience en-
dorse this measure, but investigation does
not support this. I could quote scientific
evidence, from unquestionable sources,
sufficient to fill several issues of your
paper, opposed to fluoridation. France
has had the question investigated by its
Academy of Science and decided against
fluoridation. Russia and Sweden have
both banned it from their water supplies.
Many American local authorities have
tried it and then, after undertaking the
expense, have discontinued its use.
We do not claim that fluoridation does
not improve the teeth of children in the
age groups quoted, but there is mounting
evidence to show that these same teeth
later deteriorate to the point where they
are difficult or impossible to fill, making
the final state much worse than in areas
that have not been fluoridated.
G. H. GRA, MHR
Chairman,
Anti-Fluoride Association of Queensland.
Rockhampton (Qld).
OPUS DEI
Sir,
I have read Mr Richard Hall's answer
(27/4/63) to my letter previously pub-
lished in your magazine. I do not have
the slightest intention of starting a debate
and so this will be my last letter. It is
my only wish that your readers be
properly informed, and this forces me to
state once again the truth about Opus
Dei:
1. The character and aims of this
Catholic association are exclusively relig-
ious.
2. The members of Opus Dei form an
association for the exclusive purpose of
receiving spiritual formation and col-
laborating in the apostolic tasks that the
association undertakes. In everything else
(professional work, social and political
activities) each one acts on his own.
3. Since Opus Dei is an association of
the Catholic Church, it is surprising that
some persons occasionally non-
Catholics presume to give the associa-
tion “lessons in Catholicism". They can
rest assured that if the twisted aims or
the political outlook that some attribute
to us were in any way true, the Catholic
hierarchy would have denounced us a
long time ago.
4. As far as Spain is concerned, to
deduce what Opus Dei is or thinks on
the basis of the personal and free politi-
cal activity of a few of its members has
no foundation whatsoever. The respon-
sibility for this activity belongs to each
one of the members in particular, not to
the association, that has had no influence
whatsoever in their opinions or decisions.
(FR.) S. M. FERIGLE
Chicago ( Illinois ).


THE DICTIONARY OF BIOGRAPHY
Sir,
I prefer not to pursue too closely
Professor Hancock’s unfriendly fancies
contained in his reply to my strictures on
the administration of the “Australian
Dictionary of Biography”. Readers can
compare his defence about “teething
troubles” and inefficient typists with the
details of my charges about the appoint-
ment of a publisher and inaccuracy and
carelessness, and form their own judg-
ments.
One personal matter, however, usefully
illustrates the ideas of accuracy of the
administrator of the Dictionary himself.
He declares he “finds it not easy to
write” about the conflicts between my-
self and the NSW Working Party and the
Editorial Board . . . “for a plain reason”:
On a proposal originating from Mr Ellis
himself the National Committee, on
February 2, 1962, gave directions that
every reference to these conflicts should
be expunged from its records and from
those of the Editorial Board. It did this,
not out of weakness, but in respect for
the feelings of Mr Ellis. Its decision was
part of a deliberate, clear and compre-
hensive agreement, which satisfied Mr
Ellis at that time (see his letter to the
“Sydney Morning Herald’’ of February 5,
1962). Mr Ellis now feels himself at liberty
to break this agreement. I do not.
Every statement in the above is
untrue.
Firstly, the only thing I proposed to
initiate at the meeting was a stand-and-
deliver demand for the withdrawal of a
provably untruthful statement by the
Editorial Board and an intimation that if
it was not withdrawn I would retire and
instruct my solicitor.
The second is that any proposal for
agreement came from Professor Salmon,
whom Professor Hancock had asked to
preside while he made an attack on me.
The third is that Professor Salmon and
others, including myself, worked out a
plan to bury the differences only because,
as Professor Salmon put it, if I were to
“go into the committee and defend my-
self on the basis of the paper” I had
shown him, “we would reach a point of
no return at which the issues would inevi-
tably become a matter of public contro-
versy and possibly destroy the Dic-
tionary.” Fourthly, the National Commit-
tee’s minutes are a blank about any
agreement such as Professor Hancock
mentions or about any “directions”
whatever which it in any case had no
power to give to me or the Editorial
Board about the matter. And fifthly,
the only agreement is a statement by the
Editorial Board that it will expunge
documents dated from November 27,
1961, to February 2, 1962, from its
records.
I can find no resolution expunging
Committee records perhaps I did not
receive them, even if Professor Hancock
suggests that a non-existent “deliberate,
clear and comprehensive agreement” was
made “not out of weakness, but in res-
pect of the feelings of Mr Ellis”, I’m
quite happy- These papers contain one
of the most damning indictments of the
Editorial Board that could be written,
both in my charges and their replies.
Next, Professor Hancock feels that my
attacks on Professor Manning Clark on
his scholarship, not only in my “recent
article in The Bulletin but elsewhere”,
on his patriotism, and even on his inte-
grity, were “dreadful”.
Why shouldn’t I attack the scholarship
of a man who writes a book full of
errors, misinterpretations, with whole
pages devoted to what I consider (on the
basis of the records) garbled and inac-
curate rubbish, when it is sent to me for
review? In any case, the author has not
defended himself and the defence of his
friends has consisted either in assertions
that he is a new Gibbon or in personal
abuse of myself.
And are people who believe the
spiritual values of “Western civilisation”
belong to the dustbin, and hold up Com-
munists as men of “great goodness”,
partly because they are “remembered
with gratitude and admiration in Prague
and Moscow”, exempt from criticism?
But let us return to Professor Han-
cock’s admiring review of those men of
“learning and professional skill” who will
write for this Dictionary and whose repu-
tations will “deservedly” remain “con-
stant” throughout Australia.
What are they to contribute to the
“great co-operative scheme”?
What will they write? The prize bio-
graphy in the first three volumes of the
Dictionary, the one that requires deepest
and most expert knowledge of seventy
years of Australian political history:
William Charles Wentworth? No. That
went, without question, to me, who
cannot even remember whether I matri-
culated in my youth. When I resigned
it was handed to a junior master at a
public school!
William Bland next to Wentworth
a giant of the fight for responsible gov-
ernment which of the men who enjoy
Australia-wide reputation for learning
and professional skill drew that plum?
None of them. They handed the job to
a medical doctor whose sole historical
work was a correlation of the day-to-day
events of 1788.
Who among the elite drew Governor
Phillip Gidley King? Their first and
fiercely supported choice was a ripe
scholar who recently had declared that
the most authentic account he had ever
read of the rebellion against Bligh was in
the vaporings of a half-illiterate ancient
who recollected that most active among
the “very men themselves” who organised
the rebellion were William Charles Went-
worth and James Macarthur, who was pic-
tured raging through the settlement with
a brutal murderer, intimidating the public.
The fact that James Macjarthur was rising
nine years old and William Charles
Wentworth at school in England at the
time of the rebellion did not mute the
enthusiasm of Professor Hancock, Mr
Fitzhardinge and Professor Manning
Clark for this erudite Ph.D-
What did the inner elite of the cabal
of Professor Hancock really show them-
selves eager to write? Well, for instance,
they found it “an impassable barrier to
agreement” with a fellow named Ellis
that he had volunteered to donate the
biography of Governor Macquarie, on
whose reign he was the standing autho-
rity and about whom he had written a
lengthy and detailed book complete with
about 2000 reference notes which would
make it easy for a ripe university scholar
to become an “instant” biographer of
Macquarie for the Dictionary. The
same applied to John Macarthur and
nearly all others covered by my books.
And, if they objected to Ellis writing
on Macquarie, why were they absolutely
unanimous in agreeing that he should
write the prize biography of Wentworth?
Could it be, my dear Watson, because the
un-degreed Ellis had been inconsiderate
enough to have failed to publish his ex-
tensive biography of Wentworth with
reference notes in time for use by
scholars of “learning and professional
skill” in the Dictionary?
M. H. ELLIS
BEGGING THE QUESTION?
Sir,
You state (“Plain English”, 8/6/63)
that the MWS & D Board is . by
law and tradition autonomous . . . In
this you appear to beg the question. An
ad hoc body, such as the Board, is an
ancillary of the State, set up by legisla-
tion to achieve some special purpose for
the State. These derive their authority
and approval for their regulations and
by-laws from the Governor in Council,
i.e., from the Government. If the Govern-
ment is not satisfied that such a body is
performing its proper function it may
remedy the matter by a directive, amend-
ing legislation, or by getting rid of those
executives in the ad hoc body who are
thwarting its will. What section of what
act can you quote to support autonomy
of such a body?
Tradition, i.e., what has happened in
the past, is no unequivocal guide in this
regard. The Commonwealth Bank Board
stood over the Scullin Government
which wanted finance to relieve unem-
ployment. J. T. Lang stood over the
Commissioner for Railways, who refused
to reinstate fully those ARU members
who took part in the 1917 strike. Tradi-
tion indicates that guts are the deciding
factor in Government versus “ad hoes.”
A. P. NEGUS
Ryde (NSW).


REVIEWS
MUSIC
Birth of a Giant?
By JOHN SMALL
A musician whose name has recently
come into prominence is the 31-
year-old Sydney composer Richard
Meale. His Flute Sonata was played at
the recent Australian festival of the In-
ternational Society for Contemporary
Music, and his “Las Alboradas”, for
flute, horn, violin and piano, recently
performed at a concert put on by the
ISCM’s Sydney branch, had approving
notices in Sydney. The ABC is currently-
broadcasting a series of programmes on
contemporary music, devised and pre-
sented by him.
When 1 sought him out for an inter-
view Meale proved engagingly willing to
talk about himself and his music. He
first became deeply interested in music,
and started composing at about 13. He
left school in the fourth year of high
school with the avowed ambition of be-
coming a great pianist and composer,
studied at Sydney Conservatorium, but
did no examinations.
Unlike many other Australian com-
posers, his music has always been deter-
minedly “modern” and his early work
was influenced by Stravinsky, Hindemith,
Bartok and other figures who became
prominent between the world wars. How-
ever, he became dissatisfied with this
music because he considered it “back-
ward-looking”. Hindemith now stands
high on his list of dislikes. “Most of the
music of the Twenties and Thirties was
preoccupied with the past a sign that
an era was ending. Even Schoenberg
tried to come to terms with the past, after
inventing 12-note music. Webern was
the only man who knew which way
things were going. Instead of relying on
the old forms he started to reorganize
music so that what was expressive was
the form itself and not the conventional
sign-language that most composers used
to fill out the old musical forms.”
Since abandoning his early style,
Meaie’s development has been directed
by his drive to get rid of what he con-
siders unnecessary ballast. An important
stage in Meaie’s development was the
composition of a piano piece which he
says was “a study in the formal value of
pure sound”. The piece went by several
names, one of which was “Orenda”
an African name for the magical power
of sound to evoke not just the image of
a thing but, as it were, the thing’s very
soul.
Although he considers “Orenda” an
important stage in his development,
Meale has suppressed it, along with all
his other pre-1959 works. In 1960, a
Sinfonia for small orchestra and the flute
sonata played at Amsterdam earned
Meale a Ford Foundation Grant, which
he used to study oriental music at the
University of California. He learnt to
play several instruments under teachers
from Asia.
“Las Alboradas”, Meaie’s most recent
work, is a musical tribute to Spain, where
he spent several months after the expiry
of the grant. Each of its three movements
was written with one of the “alboradas”
a kind of serenade in mind. This
work is scored for flute, violin, horn and
piano. It was to have had a soprano part,
but Meale decided that the music did not
need it. He is contemplating rewriting
it for another performance in Sydney
later this year, and adding parts for
soprano and harp.
It would be impertinent to try to give
a definitive assessment of “Las Albo-
radas” after only two hearings (the work
was played twice, to illustrate the effect
of the two “chance” sections at the end
of the work, where the players were left
free to choose at random from a number
of related musical fragments, and to keep
on playing at random until signalled to
stop by the conductor). The task is made
especially difficult by the apparent com-
plexity of the work though Meale
states that “it’s quite simple, really”
and the unfamiliarity of Meaie’s “idiom”,
if this word is appropriate for music that
studiously avoids being idiomatic.
The few coherent impressions that 1
got were very favorable. The brief frag-
ments of melody that made momentary
appearances throughout the work gave
the second of its three movements a
haunting character. The second dance
section at the end of the last movement
had a magnificent “glow” about it that
contrasted very aptly with the restrained,
almost brooding, sound of the rest of the
work. “Las Alboradas” is certainly a
work well worth rehearing.
films
Ustinov’s
Triumph
Billy Budd. Director, Peter Ustinov.
Prince Edward Theatre. Sydney.
novels must be a tempta-
tion to any film maker, with their
combination of lively action and appar-
ent simplicity of moral argument. But
Melville’s simplicity is deceptive, and
most of the filmed stories have been
sorry affairs. All the more praise then
to Peter Ustinov’s production of “Billy
Budd”.
“Moby Dick”, Melville’s masterpiece,
has twice been filmed first by Lloyd
Bacon, with John Barrymore (hardly an
ideal Captain Ahab) and Dolores Cos-
tello, and then in a version directed by
John Huston which was visually strik-
ing but otherwise not very impressive and
was handicapped by the ludicrous mis-
casting of Gregory Peck as Ahab.
The fact is that “Moby Dick” is too
big to put even on the widest of screens.
Vast, formless, engulfing, it defies being
confined within dramatic limitations, and
all of the spectacular and beautiful
photography in John Huston's film
'couldn't disguise the fact.
“Billy Budd” has a more manageable
story: Billy, a merchant seaman at the
time of the French wars and the Spithead
mutiny of the Royal Navy, is impressed
from his ship, the Rights of Man,
aboard the Navy ship, the Avenger,
His shining innocence wins over everyone
except Claggart, the dark and brooding
Master-at-Arms, who is hated and feared
by the whole crew.
Even Claggart is not immune to Billy’s
goodness, but wards off the boy’s at-
tempts at friendship because to succumb
to any human warmth would make a
mockery of his religion of hatred and
cruelty.
To destroy Billy, he tells Captain Vere
that the boy is plotting mutiny Billy,
who is afflicted with a speech impedi-
ment when deeply moved, cannot speak
an answer to the charge and can only
express his indignation by a blow that
kills Claggart. Captain Vere and his
officers, though aware of Billy’s inno-
cence of malice, must follow the law
which prescribes death for striking a
superior officer, and find themselves
forced into a ritual murder which dis-
gusts them. Captain Vere carries out
his duty by hanging Billy, but the boy’s
very forgiveness of him leaves the cap-
tain with an intolerable burden of guilt
and shame.
Melville’s writing was always con-


(&nb
Quarterly Economic Reviews cover world economic,
financial and political developments: 58 reviews, each
country published quarterly.
AUSTRALIA
This review describes the present favorable economic conditions. It also discusses
the latest important wage award and gives news of various industrial projects.
Further details from:
THE ECONOMIST INTELLIGENCE UNIT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
52 Queen Street, Melbourne, C.I. Tel.: MA 2730.
WE SUPPLY
EXPLOSIVES Log-splitting and
post-hole guns. Powder and fuse
for same. Blasting mats. Tamping
rods. Magazines. Carrying boxes.
Exploders and all accessories.
STEAM VALVES Everlasting
valve. Particularly suitable for
boiler blow-off or full on.
WATER FILTERS For farm,
household and industrial use.
TUYERES Hot air for forges.
MINING Curvilinear tables for
ore concentration. Classifiers. Rapid
magnetting machines.
TOOLS Barrows, pinch and other
bars. Jumpers, mattocks, picks,
handles, shovels, quarry tools, road-
lamps, etc.
ENQUIRIES TO
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
cerned with the cosmic theme of the
struggle between good and evil not
only the conflict between the warring
impulses in one man, but the conflict
between absolute good and absolute evil,
a battle which can only end in tragedy.
For Melville sees both good and evil,
if not tempered by ordinary humanity,
as destructive forces. In ‘‘Moby Dick’’,
Captain Ahab's crusade against the
blind, impersonal malice embodied in
the white whale is corrupted into a mis-
sion of mere vengeance, which leads him
to death and involves his crew in
catastrophe.
In “Billy Budd”, Billy’s very innocence
destroys not only Claggart, but also Billy
himself and Captain Vere. Virtue and
vice, drawn together as inevitably as
magnet and steel, involve also the ordin-
ary human beings who live by their abil-
ity to work out some compromise be-
tween the two.
The film of “Billy Budd” manages to
convey these great implications without
interrupting the flow of narrative or
indulging in overt preaching. It is a film
of moving simplicity which translates
Melville’s fable to the screen with econ-
omy and artistry.
Terence Stamp is a remarkable find
for the title role, with his unusual phy-
sical beauty and his ability to project
warmth and gentleness without seem-
ing namby-pamby. His acting may not
be very subtle, but Billy is a simple and
uncomplicated character. Terence Stamp
is in fact such a perfect choice for the
part that it is hard to imagine him in any
other; only the future will enable us to
evaluate the range and versatility of his
work.
It is a measure of the excellence of
Robert Ryan's characterisation that he is
accepted unquestioningly as Claggart,
not simply as a veteran Ryan giving
another good “characterisation”. The
scene, in which Billy offers friendship
and Claggart, though momentarily temp-
ted, rejects it, is beautifully underplayed
and deeply moving; and I will not soon
forget the shot of Claggart, after witnes-
sing what he considers the absurdly
lenient sentence of 10 lashes, leaning
against the rail and beating out the rest
of the merited strokes against his own
booted leg.
But the greatest praise must go to
Peter Ustinov, who produced and direct-
ed the film and collaborated with Robert
Rossen on the screenplay as well as play-
ing the role of Captain Vere. His under-
standing of and respect for Melville’s
work is evident throughout, and his fine,
self-effacing performance, in which he
completely sinks his own personality in
the character of Vere, is superb. After
this he can never be regarded simply as
a brilliant entertainer and wit: he is a
fine and sensitive actoi Beverley Tivey
TELEVISION
A Mute
Audience?
Celebrity Recital. Lisa della Casa.
Channel 2.
TTard to believe a television viewer
could find himself staring at a pic-
ture and wishing for a commercial, but
this actually happened to me and the
ABC was the cause. I had tuned in
to “Celebrity Recital,” featuring Lisa
della Casa, as a warm-up for the second
showing of “The Joan Sutherland Hour”,
“to be re-presented in response to thou-
sands of requests,” if my memory is
functioning. And I'll admit it does be-
come a little vague when Miss Suther-
land on TV is mentioned. My request
was not one of the thousands.
Anyway, Miss della Casa, 45 minutes,
nine songs from Beethoven, Schubert and
Brahms. The camera showed us the plat-
form, the piano, the organ gallery, and a
big vase of flowers. No sign of people.
If there was an audience, presumably it
was an unusually quiet one, for a winter
recital. Here was a wonderful oppor-
tunily for a quick sell: “these moments
of cough-free silence are brought to you
by Vicks Medicated Throat Shampoo.”
Then Raymond Lambert appeared, and
played the anthem. A front row of
heads appeared below the platform. Mr
Lambert departed. The heads disap-
peared. More silence. An invisible an-
nouncer told us what we were about to
hear. There was scattered applause, and
Mr Lambert reappeared with Miss della
Casa.
When Miss della Casa began to sing,
I realised why the audience had seemed
so quiet. The ABC’s audio was function-
ing at its worst. I gave it the benefit of
doubt for a while, thinking perhaps the
power notes would deafen me if I turned
up the sound. But nothing remotely like
that happened.
During the period of mime, the artist
compensated her viewers by looking as
splendid as a celebrated Salome should,
but I was determined to hear her sing
too. So I turned the knob, and sure
enough she was singing, purely and
sweetly.
She sang three songs and went away,
abandoning us to the ABC’s notion that
a bare stage is well worth a few minutes
of anyone’s viewing time. Then she
returned, sang some more, went away


again. And I switched to Charlie Mc-
Carthy, followed by a larger but less
animated Gardner McKay. I’ll bet
thousands did likewise.
The ABC has given us a concertgoers’
vision of the recital complete with pro-
longed views of nothing and all the ex-
citement of watching the artist and
accompanist play the “I’ll start when
you’re ready” game. But we did not get
a concertgoers’ version of the recital,
which is a different matter, involving
presence and true sound.
FRANK ROBERTS
Feiffer
I Kf?
pro
60 our
OU TH6
met
AIMP6
AfW
I'P 66T
06AT OP.
imnmh
wm m.r
Mb) IT m
uvmi one. r
loom UP 51A'
T6TICS O\ J
mte duo sor
m upb)o
Tm mrmoti
THS « IT'S
SU6PR mGM
emu.
m semi wav Hr
foov veimea i m
w peumrepo vein-
mo. mi m vkreo
me at My House.
AMP AS LOHO AS l
mr 6o our pm
Thp srpeer i oemeo
t oe pipe.
m 9TTIU6 COM-
Fomm iu m
imwe room meO
omem it.
CAMT TO MS THAT
i w wot om
60 (foro m
mep-mtiFi
mr \w m
mm if? 66T
m of.
50 r SAT THROUGH ML
FOUR lATF 5H0(05
Tfiimo w mm
OUT. AU(? AT FH/F IV
TtfF MOM 6 r
FmUH COWVE9
THAT (T WteUT m :
dOUH OM M OUTOIOt
I m AFRAID OF, IT IOMb
m 1 WAS AFRAiP' Of!
THAT A cmm M
(MM fERSOP m
pebuiapip mr
he up m mM[
so r mee
moor
m amp
mr m
THe kircm
m.mm
dm ne up.
ampi ?uroom
coat, m our
FEAP amp mx
mo m
sma amp
WSOM m
HE op.
FOR M FIRST
m (u ms
imtmu
1 RRFb) I
M)(JU? Um
FF ATW
A6AIM I
i Far $o 6oov
THAT M FI&T
come of
(tom
l SAOJ
i mo?.
Warm
Landscapes
Robert Hughes. Australian Galleries.
Melbourne.
current large exhibition of oils and
gouaches at Australian Galleries is
Robert Hughes’ first one-man exhibition
in Melbourne. It is an extremely good
exhibition, remarkably good in fact con-
sidering Hughes’ very active and diverse
interests.
The quality of Hughes’ painting is close
to his quality as a writer. It is assured,
incisive and, above all, coherent. More so
than in most local painting the intention
is clear.
In this present exhibition (which con-
sists entirely of landscapes) there is no
sign of the intellectual muddling so com-
mon these days. Admittedly Hughes’
painting may be open to the criticism
that it is contrived, that ideas about
painting often get in the way of the
direct expression of ideas in paint. Very
likely there is some truth in this it was
I think true of his earlier painting but
on the evidence of these landscapes I
would think of this only as a possible
danger rather than an actual defect.
Not the least of his virtues is that
while remaining honest and original he
is also plainly comprehensible. If any-
one wants a landscape they can get just
that no frills and modest prices. In
these landscapes a sensuous feeling for
the massive, bumbling shapes of moun-
tain and snow scenery is the usual start-
ing point in'organising the painting. Most
of them consist of large horizontal areas,
slightly clumsy close up but finely
weighed and balanced so that they are
never heavy warm, abundant paint-
ings, both in color and feeling.
BILL HANNAN


RED PAGE
Corruption’s Bitter Foe
The Upton Sinclair saga
By ALEXANDER PORTEOUS
The Autobiography of Upton Sinclair.
W. H. Allen. 445. 9d.
“T had made notes and had envelopes
■*- full of clippings, and a head full of
memories and a heart full of rage. I
decided that I could put all that into a
book . . .” So Sinclair introduces his
account of his book on the American
Press “The Brass Check”, and sums up
the process leading to the appearance of
most of his eighty published works. His
real career started with “The Jungle’’ in
1906, in which he presented to an ap-
palled public the realities of life in the
Chicago stockyards; and thereafter he
worked his way through the Rockefeller
family’s Colorado mining-camps, the
New York garment-workers, the oil com-
panies, and other areas of industrial tur-
moil. He took in on the way subjects like
alcoholism, venereal disease and birth-
control; para-psychology; education; the
iniquities of the churches; and, pre-emin-
ently, the reform of political institutions
so as to make democracy, civil liberties
and social justice (these terms for Sin-
clair being almost synonymous) work in
practice.
It is an impressive list of causes and
could be easily expanded; his real
achievements were formidable. The meat-
packing industry was cleaned up, pretty
directly as a result of his agitation; im-
provements occurred in other similarly
specific areas; again and again he pro-
voked discussion that was vitally needed
—whatever the soundness of his own view
of the topics. He himself lists 10 major
achievements to which he believes he has
contributed (most of them referred to
above) and there is no doubt of his large
Dart in most of them.
How did he achieve what he did? The
irst answer by the reader of his own
testimony must lie in his incessant acti-
vity. He was a giant for work: writing,
speaking, organising, lobbying all with
the same unremitting assiduity. The sheer
volume of it all staggers one: in his
twenties he was for some time writing
(for $4O weekly) a novelette of close to
30,000 words every week ; and to this he
shortly added a series-publication of
56,000 each month: total 8,000 words a
day, “that left me mornings to attend
lectures at Columbia University and to
practise the violin.” And he enjoyed it
all: this most engaging autobiography
makes clear on every page the enormous
zest he brought to all his work. All was
seized to him swiftly and confidently; his
very saeva indignatio was something he
enjoyed. As he recounts the story, the
only real sadness and discouragement
come from his father's tragedy (the
result of alcoholism), his unhappy first
marriage, and the death of his beloved
second wife. It is striking that though he
believed fiercely in Vanzetti's innocence,
mourning him as “one of the wisest and
kindest persons I knew”, his reaction to
failure in that case was not despair but
action: he set to promptly and wrote a
novel, “Boston”, on the case. All per-
ceived iniquities were for him spurs to
hopeful action.
Tn this, as in the causes he adopted, there
A are many resemblances to a typical
pattern of early twentieth-century liberal-
ism down to the diet-fads, and the in-
evitable friendships with Shaw and
Wells. Many of Sinclair's responses were
in fact fairly predictable: at the begin-
ning of his career, in “The Jungle”, he
denounces “the System” brutal Capi-
tal versus ground-down Labor; and ex-
poses what he calls “the inner soul of the
city”, who turn out to be its riffraff of
the kind one finds everywhere. In this
novel he is unconscious of the inconsis-
tencies and flat contradictions to which
the schematisation of his successive feel-
ing leads him: thus the Negro strike-
breakers are all degenerate and vicious,
and the Whites are “the lowest foreigners
Greeks, Roumanians , Sicilians, and
Slovaks . . . attracted more by the pros-
pect of disorder than by big wages.” This
is the more odd in that the heroes of the
novel are a family of Lithuanians, ex-
ploited and ruined by the same condi-
tions which, for Sinclair, seemingly do
not make the strike-breakers victims also.
This simplifying schematisation runs
also through the Autobiography, and
leads to some piquant real-life anomalies.
Thus Sinclair hardly faces the fascinating
question of how much his effectiveness
was due to his own and his wife’s highly-
placed connections, as well as their
wealth. All honor to the dedication with
which they spent the latter so freely on
the causes they adopted; one is less
single-minded about the implications of
such a story as that of the dismissal of
the Los Angeles police chief who had
arrested Sinclair and held him incom-
municado for the offence of reading
aloud, on private property, the Constitu-
tion of the USA, in the course of a strike
campaign. Sinclair goes on, with no ap-
parent qualms about the methods em-
ployed, to relate his eventual triumph:
“At the end of a couple of weeks the
editor of the Los Angeles ‘Examiner’
called me on the telephone and
said, ‘Sinclair, how long is this
thing going on?’ I answered, ‘Until
we have civil liberties in Los
Angeles’. ‘What, specifically, do you
mean by that?’ he asked, and 1 said,
‘For one thing, Chief Oaks must be
kicked off the force, and we must
have the assurance that there will
never again be mass arrests of
strikers.’ The editor said, ‘You may
count upon both these conditions be-
ing met.’ I asked, ‘What guarantee
have we?’ He said, ‘1 have talked it
over with the half-dozen men who
run this town, and I have their word.
You may take mine.’ ”
The same mingled swiftness and
naivety of mind appears in his comments
on literature, and in his practice of it.
Sinclair is a powerful writer, but not a
natural imaginative writer. What are
moving and impressive in “The Jungle”
are the facts themselves: the circum-
stances of Jurgis’ life rather than any
inward experience of these. As a study of
people the novel cannot approach its
English contemporary and congener, “The
Ragged-Trousered Philanthropists”. Sin-
clair himself, of course, is perfectly aware
of his own position on this: “To me litera-
ture was a weapon in the class war.” But
he seems incapable of seeing it as any-
thing else, as having any other possibili-
ties: “Great literature is a product of the
leisure classes and defends their position,
whether consciously or by implication.
Literature that opposes them is called
propaganda.”
limitations come out equally
strongly in his references to religion;
the concluding sentences he quotes from
his book, “What God Means to Me”, are
an example which nicely exemplify the
blend of keen and right feeling, of a kind
most people would honor, with a failure
to grasp any notion of the metaphysical
dimension, which in a man of this intelli-
gence is actively embarrassing. Here
again Sinclair is a hypertypical figure.
(His interest in his fellows, also, was in
practice limited to those of them living in
the USA; his comments on Londoners
are of the same kind as those on “the
lowest foreigners”, and he shows no inter-
est in the terrible plight of suffering
people elsewhere, though his particular
comments and actions do, of course,
have a general relevance.


IF YOU HAVE A
FLAIR
FOR WRITING...
Torn your talent into a spare time in-
come. There is a constant demand for well-
written stories, articles, pars, radio and TV
scripts, etc., and you can learn to write
successfully for Australian and overseas
magazines and papers.
Stott's will provide you with interesting,
practical Home-Study instruction of the
highest quality. All Stott Literary Instructors
are fully qualified in their respective fields.
159 Flinders Lane. Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney; 292 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane; 21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide,- 22
Howard Street, Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S- Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars o( your Literary Courses.
NAME
ADDRESS
Age (B 1163)
S T OTTS COLLEGES undertake that no rep-
resentative will call following your inquiry.
SECOND ANNUAL
BLUE MOUNTAINS
ART COMPETITION
Closing date, 19th August, 1963
Prizes totalling £250
Also junior section under 21, £5O
For details write to:
TOWN CLERK,
Blue Mountains City Council,
Great Western Highway,
Katoomba, N.S.W.
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. 'D' Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
All this he spreads out before us with
the most engaging frankness, confidence
and ease of manner, as a man talking to
friends. In his Autobiography he gives
us not only a most interesting documen-
tation of a kind of mind of considerable
historical importance, but the personal
testament of a man who, whatever his
limitations, must finally be honored as
decent, courageous, devoted and diligent,
in causes which on balance are clearly
good. However impractical his solutions,
the response that “This cannot be allow-
ed to continue" is the basic and necessary
one in the face of many human predica-
ments; Sinclair did inestimable service by
pointing to them.
From the
Beaver’s Mouth
The Decline and Fall of Lloyd George.
Lord Beaverbrook. Collins. 31s.
T ife glowed with meaning for Lord
Beaverbrook in the eight years of po-
litical intrigue from 1914 to 1922 when
he managed to cut himself into the power
game of England. In his old age that
period of his life seems to have become
an obsession. He has bought up crates
of private papers about it, subsidised
other people’s books about it and written
two previous ones himself (“Politicians
and the War, 1914-1916” and “Men and
Power, 1917-1918"). This latest book is
an excellent analysis of the conspiracies
by which he and others moved the Con-
servative Party to break with Lloyd
George in 1922 and which, as it turned
out, finished him off.
Victory was ashes in the mouth for
Beaverbrook. For the 40 years since then
(apart from Churchill’s World War II
breakthrough, which for a while gave
Beaverbrook a taste of the old fun) he
has also been finished politically. He
started running newspapers to make poli-
tics but all he succeeded in doing with
them was to make money. He became
as irrelevant as the man he helped to
destroy in 1922.
What Beaverbrook does not admit in
this book is that in destroying Lloyd
George he destroyed himself. The end
of Lloyd George (apart from Churchill’s
comeback) was also the end of all the
Great Adventurers. Lloyd George,
Churchill, Birkenhead, Northcliffe, Cur-
zon, Carson, Beaverbrook and a dozen
others played politics with open flam-
boyance as the power game that in a
tragi-comic world it usually is. That is
not to say they were without principles
(perhaps Curzon and Birkenhead were
one was a popinjay and the other a law-
yer but even these two developed
principles en passant). Others had prin-
ciples, but they also accepted and en-
joyed the expediencies, compromises, in-
trigues and stratagems without which the
successful passage of parts of policy into
practice seems to be impossible. They
knew they could not decide what was on
the agenda, that events would probably
do that for them. But what was important
was that an open enjoyment of power
enabled them to act when action seemed
possible. They confessed to a love of
power but some of them could use it.
One exception was Northcliffe, who
used his power as an echo chamber. To
him newspaper editorials in themselves
were possessed of unique magical prop-
erties. For this reason the politicians usu-
ally got the better of him. Beaverbrook
tells how Northcliffe cabled the “Daily
Mail” editor from New York to get
his instructions from Birkenhead on the
Irish issue. Northcliffe did not know
that Birkenhead had changed sides. For
two days before Northcliffe found
out Birkenhead dictated “Daily Mail”
articles opposed to Northcliffe’s policy.
When the Great Adventurers departed
and Baldwin took over, a note of humbug
and inanition entered British political dis-
cussion. It has not yet left it. The sad-
faced man who presided over events be-
tween the last Lloyd George and the first
Churchill Governments no doubt licked
at power with as much desire as Curzon
or Birkenhead. But it was a concealed
delight. They were so concerned with the
clean-up of political life that they were
drenched in their own washing-up water.
They had lost the ability to use power
openly in political action. It took an ad-
venturer like Roosevelt to seize the poli-
tical potential of Keynes’ recipes, an
adventurer like Churchill to get the mark
of Hitler and an adventurer like Ernest
Bevin to make a political reality of anti-
Communism.
It is too much to expect Beaverbrook
to give his last act of successive political
intrigue the irony of an act of self-
assassination. Besides, things were moving
in that direction anyway. There was a
lordly look about the Great Adventurers
that would have probably hacked them
down. There were new, more modest-
looking men coming up, more in the
style of the age. And Lloyd George
himself, in the last eighteen months of
in-fighting described in this book, had
become a tragically desperate political
animal. His cunning, used for years in
the service of his country and his Gov-
ernment, was now used in a disgust-
ingly obvious way in the service of
himself, as he tried to overcome the
fact that he led a coalition in which his
was the minority party. He hopped from
the Conservatives to the Liberals to the
Conservatives, from Empire Protection
to Free Trade, from opposing the Bol-
sheviks to conciliating them, from hating
the Irish to loving them. When they


finally turned up in their hard hats and
their stiff collars, got him in a corner
and did him over he was contemplating
war on Turkey. He was rummaging for
politics like an old sultan shopping for
aphrodisiacs.
Beaverbrook is, of course, an excellent
accountant of power. A master at the
trade himself, he writes a book that is
both a collection of worldly after-dinner
anecdotes and a tragedy of a great man
struck down by the characteristics that
had made him great. (They had become
irrelevant to the demands of the day.)
His three books taken together make a
kind of Shakespearean history cycle. (Un-
like Shakespeare, Beaverbrook leaves out
the ordinary people.) There is only one
main criticism. Throughout the book he
shows a wonderful eye for the weak-
nesses of all the other great men but
there are two great men in it who don’t
seem to have any weaknesses. One is
Bonar Law, whom Beaverbrook, in the
first of his three big intrigues, helped
hoist into the leadership of the Conserva-
tive Party. The other is Beaverbrook
himself.
Perhaps he does provide a clue to why
the memory of Lloyd George still fas-
cinates him and why he helped in the
plot. Tucked away on the fifth page of
Appendix 63 I found an account of the
great days of his second big political in-
trigue. He helped Lloyd George destroy
Asquith and did not get the plum he
was promised. “After many days working
intimately with Lloyd George, the end
was attained: the fall of Asquith . . . All
day long I sat in my room at the Hyde
Park Hotel waiting for the telephone
call from him which would have been
a confirmation of the pledge he had
given me . . . that I would be his Presi-
dent of the Board of Trade. Silence
reigned. The telephone did not ring . . .
After the election of 1935 Lloyd George
. . . held only four seats including his
own. In the following weekend there
was not a single telephone message for
Lloyd George . . . When I heard of this
experience I was reminded of my own
lonely vigil and for Lloyd George I
had deep sympathy.”
DONALD HORNE
Wobblies’ War
The Maltese Falcon and Red Harvest.
Dashiell Hammett. Penguin. ss. 6d.
each.
is there left to say about “The
"" Maltese Falcon” 33 years after the
book was first published? Only, I regret,
the tired old cliches all over again. This is
a classic in the mystery field and, if he
had written nothing else, is enough to
ensure Hammett a permanent place
alongside the other immortal giants of
the mystery writing field, Poe and Conan
Doyle.
“Red Harvest” (published a year
earlier), with enough plot to provide 20
novels from the pen of an average prac-
titioner in the field, is one of Hammett’s
“Continental op” stories that fairly
bristles with blood, corpses, and cor-
ruption. And there’s always that crisp,
sparkling prose: “For 40 years old Elihu
Willsson . . . had owned Personville,
heart, soul, skin, and guts.” Just for
fun, try and guess how many words
an O’Hara would take to say the same
thing?
The scene of all the action is a small
mining town, Personville, commonly
known to its citizenry as “Poisonville.”
Old man Willsson beat the striking miners
by importing gunmen as strike-breakers,
and when the strike was broken (“the last
skull had been cracked, the last rib
kicked in”) the gunmen stayed and took
over. But now the old man wants his
town back, and the Continental op is
the man to get it back for him.
There is an almost nostalgic fascina-
tion in Hammett’s Personville, circa
1929. It was a time when the “Wobblies”
or “Industrial Workers of the World”
still formed an active revolutionary or-
ganisation, and a time when a tuber-
culosis victim was known by the brutal
epithet, “lunger.” But there is certainly
nothing nostalgic about the speed, action,
and intricate plot-tricks of this story.
The later years of Dashiell Hammett’s
own life are something of a mystery
in their own right. Whatever happened
to him? Penguin’s capsuled biography
takes him through a wide variety of
jobs up to the time he became a pro-
fessional writer. “The Thin Man” was
published in 1933; what happened from
then up until the time of his death in
1961? Agreed, there was the long, vicious
legal battle with Hollywood over the
rights to the characters he created in the
stories he sold to them, but what then?
In New York, at the time of his death,
rumors flew thick and fast for years
he had lived on the earnings of his mis-
tress, a famous playwright, and perhaps
had been more than half responsible for
her success he had been a Com-
munist, his name high on Hollywood’s
infamous black list, and even the pub-
lishers had been afraid to touch him.
Whatever the truth was, one can't help
feeling there is another “Quest For
Corvo” waiting to be written about him.
In the days when Papa Hemingway
was busy creating a brand new style of
crisp, staccato prose, Hammett was busy
doing exactly the same thing in his
own field. The mystery reader is eternally
indebted to him, if for no other reason
than, as Raymond Chandler said, “He
took murder out of the Venetian vase
and dropped it into the alley.”
CARTER BROWN
First Base
The Natural. Bernard Malamud. Eyre
& Spottiswoode. 265.
natural” in Bernard Malamud’s
novel is Roy Hobbs, and what is
natural about him is his great gift for
playing baseball. When the book opens he
is on his way to try out with a Chicago
team, and even during that train trip to
Chicago he strikes out, with only three
pitched balls, the leading hitter of the
American League, three times winner
of the Most Valuable Player award, Wal-
ter (the Whammer) Wambold. You may
wonder how this could happen during
a train trip, but lam not going to tell
you.
On the train, too, is Harriet Bird, and
it is Roy’s fate to be prevented by that
lady from fulfilling his tremendous prom-
ise immediately. It is some years, in fact,
before he really hits his stride. Then,
though, he takes giant strides, and records
fall in ruins all around him. Single-
handed, he pulls the New York team he
plays for from bottom place to near
top. Single-handed, he fills stands that
had been empty. Single-handed, he
makes a city happy. With his baseball
bat he not only breaks records and makes
money and revives spirits, he even saves
a life. And nearly takes one.
Connected with his team, though, is
a young woman called Memo Paris, and
though she is no Harriet Bird, she is
still poison to Roy because she carries
the torch for one Bump Baily, in whose
death she believes Roy to have had a
hand; Roy’s desire for her, despite the
presence of Iris Lemon, a young grand-
mother, is his undoing.
From his first novel (“The Natural”
was published in America in 1952) it
was clear that Malamud joins Faulkner
near the head of a short list of novelists
who have created a new way of writing,
a new style, a new voice. His masterly
management of levels of diction com-
municates an ironic vision as complex as
Jane Austen’s.
PETER SHRUBB
Dark Promise
A Swarthy Boy. Edgar Mittelholzer.
Putnam. 265.
piEW of the world's best-selling authors
would admit that a combination of
silent serials and Buffalo Bill stories set
them off on a literary career. Edgar
Mittelholzer does, in a detailed autobio-
graphy of the first 17 years of his life.
“So impressed was I . . . that a strong
desire came alive in me to create heroes
of my own in tales as exciting as those
enacted on the screen and in the pages
of the periodical I loved. I bought an
exercise book, and began to write a
story.”


The year was 1920 and Mittelholzer
was 11, a swarthy boy in New Amster-
dam, British Guiana, where such a skin
troubled only his father, one of the
“people of colored admixture but of fair
or olive complexions, who dispensed any
color snobbery it was possible to dis-
pense.” Not that Dad did much more
than glance askance at his first born. He
was a passive man.
Mittelholzer’s mother ran his life un-
til he was 14, when he finally rejected
punishments administered by a piece of
leather known cutely as Tickle Toby.
And that was not so very long after he
had been allowed to walk to school for
the first time without a maid to shade
him with an umbrella. He remains con-
vinced that punishment is good for young
and old, that the man is as he is born,
and nuts to environment. After the fifth
or sixth declaration along these lines,
one begins to wonder.
It is a book for the clinically minded,
filled with detail on detail, building a
fairly good picture of a boy developing
in a colonial society. As a portrait of
an emerging writer it is disappointing,
but will probably have greater value when
the next in the series is published. After
Buffalo Bill and the purchase of a note-
book and pencil, six years passed before
this author began tc try for a break-
through as a writer.
At 17 he had failed an examination,
there was no job for him in the Civil
Service, it would have been infra dig
to serve in a shop like the Hindus or
Portuguese, so no one minded that he
should spend a year bombarding the
London market with short stories and
novels.
No one would have complained either
if young Edgar had sat under a tree and
dozed until something in the Civil Service
turned up. The pressure came from with-
in. He was the one junior boy who had
always got through when his class
“rushed” the seniors’ classroom in high
school. His was determination overcom-
ing all opposition, and when he decided
to become a writer nothing could stop
him. That he was learning to write in
perhaps the best way, by writing, did not
occur to him.
Probably he needed the practice, be-
cause after Buffalo Bill came Nelson
Lee and the Sexton Blake Library, and
not much else. This was the papular
literature of every British Guiana youth
in the 19205, and the groves of tropic
Berbice-town echoed many a “Spiffing!”
and “Gadzooks!” Mittelholzer recalls
with amusement that the editors of his
first published novel, “Corentyne Thun-
der,” found such dialogue between two
youths quite unlikely in that distant
locale.
Thirty-six years later there is still a
touch of Sexton Blake in the author, who
declares, “Put an honest, decent indi-
vidual in a sewer and he will emerge
honest and decent. Under the best of
conditions a neurotic will remain a neu-
rotic. A sane man will still be sane after
he has been made to stand on his head
for a year.” None of this Freudian non-
sense for Edgar Mittelholzer.
FRANK ROBERTS
Of Men & Mining
The Coalminers of New South Wales.
A History of the Union, 1860-1960.
Robin Gollan. Melbourne Univer-
sity Press in association with the
Australian National University. 50s.
fjhns is the soberest of historical studies.
The Miners’ Federation was founded
in 1860, and 1960 was the latest point
to which Dr Gollan could conveniently
carry his researches. There is nothing
to suggest that 1960 will (in retrospect)
mark the end of an era. it is a point
in an unfinished period beginning with
the 1949 Coal Strike, the dramatic de-
feat of which through the concerted ef-
forts of the official labor movement is
perhaps the chief reason why the en-
suing period of unparalleled rationaliza-
tion and mechanisation has seen no major
industrial upheaval in the coal mines.
Dr Gollan's treatment of the last 20
years of his period “World War II
and After" although competently
bringing the story up to date, is as he
says, “no more than the briefest outline.”
The detailed study is of the formation of
the Union and its first 80 years of exist-
ence. It concentrates on the northern
fields almost to the exclusion of the
south and west, but this probably does
no more than reflect the dominant in-
fluence ol those fields on the develop-
ment of the industry and of the Union.
We are given brief but lucid accounts
of the geological determinants; the tech-
nical problems of winning, transporting,
storing and marketing coal; the chancing
demand for coal and the institutional
effects of chronic over-production in the
industry. It is a measure of the author's
mastery ol his subject that such informa-
tion invariably appears as an immediate
illumination of the story rather than as
an interruption to its flow.
Equally, Dr Gollan is sensitive to the
enduring effects of attitudes engendered
by past events long after the events
themselves are forgotten. He precedes
his main story not only with a vivid
account of the coalfields in convict days,
but also with a glimpse of traditional
attitudes and practices of the mining
villages of Great Britain from which
so many of our early miners came.
Within his story he \ nderlines the linger-
ing effects of events such as the great
depression, and past conflicts with other
unions whose members work in the
mines.
But what will make the book most at-
tractive to the general reader is the
broader canvas of political and social
change which is the background. The
standpoint of the miners is a most il-
luminating one from which to view Aus-
tralian history.
A study such as this is of inestimable
value in a community which, like ours,
proceeds on the basis that the regulation
of industrial relations and the settlement
of industrial disputes are not matters
to be left to the industry concerned,
but are matters for the day to day
intervention of public authority. This in-
volves concern with the details of dis-
putes by persons outside the industry,
in the form of arbitrators and those
appearing before them, public servants,
and sometimes politicians and officials
of major trade union and employer or-
ganisations. Even when they are con-
scious of the dangers of limited know-
ledge, remedying it is usually difficult
and tedious even where it is possible.
A study such as Dr Gollan’s cannot
but be of great practical value in any
industry, not only to those who are
concerned with the industry from out-
side, but also to those within it who can
usually learn its history before they
joined it only in a fragmentary and in-
accurate fashion. At the same time Dr
Gollan has supplied for the general reader
an eminently readable account of an
industry to which no one interested in
public affairs can be indifferent, an ac-
count which links together from a new
point of view many of the strands of
labor history in this country.
J. H. WOOTTEN
Soft Touch
The Campaign. Gillian Freeman.
Longmans. 225. 6d.
HThe Church of England’s use of out-
side fund-raising organisations is the
theme of this novel set in an English
seaside parish.
Harry Blaine, self-confessed agnostic,
has joined Christian Campaigns Ltd be-
cause the money is good. His first as-
signment is to the small backwater East
Anglia parish. He soon finds his hypo-
critical role boring and, to his credit,
shoddy. Gradually he comes to admire
the local vicar for his goodness and
patience, and to respect the vicar’s dowdy
daughter Mary. The campaign plays its
part in the end for the church, and
for Harry, who, with a new sense of
guilt, finds direction if not salvation.
This is a good story, with a con-
troversial question well handled. Sex is
used rather cynically for sales. Some
characters are achieved roundly, but
much of the writing is too shallow to be
memorable.
JOYCE BURNARD


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Cotton in a Land of Wool
By JOHN GILMORE
'V[o Australian wool-grower has yet
spoken up about the current excite-
ment in four States over cotton but
someone will. When discussion does
arise about competitive aspects, many
wool-growers might get their worries
about synthetic fibres more into perspec-
tive when the cotton boys tell them that
for every bale of synthetics or wool en-
tering the world textile trade there are
about 10 bales of cotton.
Everywhere you go at present in suit-
able growing areas in NSW, Queensland
and Victoria, the talk is of cotton. The
last was a good harvest, and this plus
Government encouragement, plus re-
cently-acquired experience is about to set
off a major explosion in cotton acreages.
And reports from WA are in some ways
the rosiest of all.
So two mammoth reports about to be
issued by the Department of Primary
Industry’s Standing Committee on Agri-
culture are likely to be hailed as timely.
These reports, compiled by the CSIRO
and the Bureau of Agricultural Econo-
mics, follow a year or more of exhaustive
Australia-wide scientific investigations
of the possibilities for the crop from the
points of view of agronomy and econo-
mics.
But the farmers are not waiting for
the Government Printer. In south-west
NSW, where pioneering in the past five
years has produced a lot of accumulated,
practical knowledge, agronomists are ex-
pressing astonishment at the speed with
which cotton areas are growing.
Provision of big-scale ginning plants is
A being urged as a matter of immediate
importance and there are plenty of
suppliers of this sort of machinery all too
willing to heed such demands. Scores of
growers and potential cottonmen have
attended recent cotton field days in the
region, some coming a day’s journey, and
questions and discussions have been
lively.
On the Ord in WA, where settlement
is starting on pilot farms under condi-
tions which make it plain the Govern-
ment does not propose to allow failure
which cannot be afforded cotton
as one of the recommended crops has
succeeded beyond the wildest expecta-
tions. Because of this area’s unique
climate, two crops may be harvested
there from one planting, and yields of up
to three tons to the acre are as high as
anywhere in the world unlike Queens-
land yields which have held the industry
there, its traditional centre in Australia
until a few short years back, in the hand-
maiden class. (Locally-produced cotton
has for many years amounted to only
about 4 p.c. of Australian requirements.)
YI/’A agriculture chiefs are already as-
" serting that on present showing the
Ord Valley can grow enough cotton, at
the right price, for the entire Australian
market reports that are made even
more confident by the remoteness and
transport costs aspects.
Yet the WA industry, because of re-
moteness, is likely to grow slower than
the NSW one, where substantial capital
is now being committed, much of it from
the USA.
Even so, American and British com-
panies are bearing in mind the “ideal”
nature of Ord soils and climate, as wit-
ness the recent visit there of two USA
investigators for the huge Manchester-
based Fine Spinners and Doublers Ltd,
one of the world’s largest cotton-manu-
facturing complexes.
The visitors were impressed with the
Ord’s fancy rainfall pattern in particular,
and made enthusiastic remarks as they
hastened to report to British head-
quarters.
Queenslanders, who have been growing
cotton far longer than anyone else in the
country if in an unspectacular way in
the past are now clamoring for irriga-
tion dams to bring in more cotton land
and action is likely to be taken first in
the country, where the unusual combina-
tion of cotton and cattle is suitable, such
as the valley of the Fitzroy.
Although the glamor area in NSW
is on the Namoi, with the Keepit Dam
backing up irrigation water in a way that
has made big-scale cotton-growing there
possible for the first time much
heavier and more profitable yields being
obtained in irrigated paddocks the
Murray and Murrumbidgee Valleys are
also in the process of doubling areas
cropped to cotton. Near Narrabri, on the
Namoi, overseas interests have passed the
investigation stage, and are hoping to
plough £2 m. into the embryo industry
before 1965. The plans of big US in-
vestors there include development for
subdivision and sale to Australian far-
mers. Other US settlers are already work-
ing their paddocks along the river, along-
side local landowners who have gone into
the crop.
So events have moved fast since the
first commercial crop to be grown outside
Queensland was harvested in Victoria
only three years ago.
Most Australian cotton the 96 p.c.
our farmers are now about to try to
catch up on comes from USA and
Mexico. Although local growers enjoy
a bounty which has the effect of guaran-
teeing a minimum return that has in
recent years risen to Is. 2d. a pound of
seed cotton produced say, <£l7s an
acre gross compared to £l5 for wool for
the sake of argument most of the
booming new interest in cotton is due to
the work of agricultural scientists, agro-
nomists and farm technologists who have
demonstrated its possibilities in many
places in seasons immediately past, and
have ironed out district production diffi-
culties.
Stability in the Egg
Industry?
A fter a delay of almost a year, the
** egg industry stabilisation plan is
given a good chance of winning approval
at the meeting of the Australian Agri-
cultural Council in Brisbane on July 1, 2
and 3.
When last put to the Agricultural
Council the plan failed to win the una-
nimous support of all States.
Although it has not been admitted
officially, it is known that South Austra-
lia, often called the “rogue State of egg
marketing”, was the only State which
refused to agree to the plan.
In recent months the body which drew
up the plan, the Council of Egg Market-
ing Authorities of Australia, has worked
hard to win South Australia’s support. It
is believed that this has now been ob-
tained.
The stabilisation plan would not in-
volve a Federal Government or taxpayer
subsidy. It would, however, impose a
levy on all laying fowls except the first
20 in any flock. This levy would be used
to meet losses on egg and egg product
exports.
The plan would also provide for mini-
mum prices for all egg products in Aus-
tralia, a reasonable similarity in State egg
prices, uniformity of grading and quality,
and the handling of all egg and egg pro-
duct exports by the Australian Egg
Board.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Profumo Pushed The Pendulum
The Profumo affair in England is another example of the
unexpected trap for the poor investor. After being con-
vinced that the economy was taking a turn for the better
following an adrenalin injection from the Budget, the stock
market mounted gaily to the tune of increased manufacturing
activity, restocking of inven- >
tories and higher export orders.
Investors, befogged by the
worst winter for ages, saw
some sunshine in the recovery
of share prices.
But a mere girl comes along
and drags everyone into
despair. Not only does she re-
ceive offers of £20,000 for
story rights and £5,000 a week
from a night-club. She drags
the stock market off its course
and threatens the future of
the Macmillan Government.
How can a poor investor pre-
dict all this? Have the chartists
got anything to say about it?
Where's their value line now?
In future, if a trendex chart
looks like the shape of a
woman, beware!
Only a few days before the
Profumo affair really came to the boil, Mr Maudling pro-
claimed with great satisfaction that business activity was rising
strongly. Order books were filling and business confidence was
sprouting wings.
Increased business confidence was reflected in the latest four-
monthly survey of the Federation of British Industries, whose
poll at the beginning of June showed that 56 p.c. of the 660
manufacturers were more optimistic than they were at the
end of February. This sharp rise in optimism was the most
abrupt since 1959.
Forty-one p.c. of manufacturers in the June survey reported
increased orders against 18 p.c. who reported fewer
orders. Thirty-seven p.c. reported higher production against
20 p.c. reporting that production had fallen. Other signs were
encouraging, such as less unused plant capacity, increased
capital plans for new plant and reports that skilled labor was
harder to obtain.
Then the Profumo affair boiled over. It was unpalatable fare
so soon after the Vassall hors-d'oeuvres and the Argyll savories.
American newspapers, pleased to report that someone else had
problems, talked of a brew of spies and lies, pimps and
prostitutes while advising their pin-up President, J.F.K., to
cancel his visit to this den of decadence. Evidently an unfor-
givable sin was that Profumo shared his mistress with Mr
Ivanov. Also it was bad public relations to print a picture
showing Ivanov kissing Mrs Murphy.
It seems incredible that reactions should be so violent in
true life to something which TV viewers watch casually
on their screens. But the stock market appraised the swing of
the political pendulum and recognised that, after 12 years in
office, the Conservatives may be voted out of office. While
not denying the possibility that
the Conservatives could win a
fourth election, at least one
political expert in Britain says
the consequences would be far-
reaching and alarming, be-
cause it would indicate that
the electoral pendulum had
ceased to swing.
Mr William Pickles, Senior
Lecturer in Political Science
in the University of London,
says that if one party seemed
to have a permanent majority,
th e permanent minorities
would demand proportional
representation, despite the risk
of its making the situation
worse.
The Profumo affair may give
the pendulum the push it re-
quires. The pendulum was
swinging a bit too slowly, and
critical electors may ask the inevitable question: If a Govern-
ment stays 12 years in office, why did it wait so long to
carry out the promises it is making for the next election?
the way the Stock Exchange evidently sees things at
the moment. The attitude is not helped by the latest report
of the National Economic Development Council (NEDC)
which says that Britain needs a 4 p.c. rate of national economic
growth against a bare 3 p.c. of the past 10 years. To achieve
this, Britain’s exports in the next few years would need to grow
at the rate of 5 p.c., including a 54- p.c. increase in exports of
manufactures. This would mean a faster growth rate than
world figures for manufactured goods. Such a target has not
been achieved over a consistent period since Britain’s industrial
leadership in the previous century. And, with economists point-
ing out that manufacturers’ domestic sales in Britain could
not grow at this rate, NEDDY is accused of setting the hurdles
too high.
But no one can argue that Britain has lost many of its
captive markets, and that Britain's exports of manufactured
goods rose by only 1. p.c. last year against a world rise of 6
p.c-. So, if it wasn't Profumo and Keeler, it would have been
some other crisis . . . probably with less shattering immediate
effect on the stock market and the Government.


STEP-UP IN DRIVE
FOR EXPORT MARKETS
fT'HE threat posed by Britain’s abortive attempt to enter the
A Common Market has fired many Australian primary indus-
tries with a belated and urgently-needed interest in export
markets. The result has been a constant stream of trade
missions, sales delegations, and survey teams to Asia, South-
east and South-west Asia, the Middle East and Africa during
the last few months.
Many of these missions have been to regions in which the
industry concerned already possesses substantial export
markets. But an increasing number —and this is a good sign
are goodwill and “get-to-know-you” missions to areas which
could have export potential in the years ahead.
Some of these areas buy little or nothing from us at the
moment. Others are only minor customers.
Latest of these missions to develop an “infant” market is
a four-man delegation from the Australian Apple and Pear
Board to the Philippines and Hong Kong. Led by the Tas-
manian exporters’ representative on the board, Mr D. G. Jones,
it is part of the drive to diversify the board’s markets.
Neither the Philippines nor Hong Kong is a big market at
the moment, but each shows rapid growth. In 1958 Hong Kong
look just over 50.000 cases of Australian apples. Last year the
figure was 163,000 cases and the board does not fully
understand the reason for the sharp rise.
The Philippines market is showing the same type of move-
ment from 15,000 cases of apples in 1958 to 60,000 cases
last year.
These markets are the type Australia cannot afford to ignore
if she is to insure against declining markets in Britain and
elsewhere.
ECONOMIC TRENDS IN
JAPANESE INDUSTRY
IyfANY of the terms used to describe the recent behavior of
A the Australian economy occur in a survey of Japan’s
domestic activity given to his shareholders by the president of
the Bank of Tokyo (Mr Shigeo Horie).
It does not sound unfamiliar to hear that “the index of
mining and manufacturing production has continued generally
sideways”, or that business investment in plant and equipment-
ment slowed during the 1962-63 fiscal year.
Mr Horie admits that continuation of past inordinate growth
by Japanse industry hardly seems likely. But he sees no decline
in investment opportunities. The emphasis is moving from light
to heavy industry, and Japan is adjusting faster to the libera-
lising tendencies of foreign trade.
CLOCK TO LOSE A SECOND
IN 30,000 YEARS!
Swiss Watch Research Laboratory at Neuchatel is
developing a clock which it hopes will not vary by more
than a second in 30,000 years!
At the Third Quantum Electronic Symposium held recently
in Paris, a Swiss scientist read a paper on the work carried
out with a thallium clock (T 1 205). This clock is not the first
to use the oscillations transmitted by radioactive particles for
the measurement of time, but atomic clocks manufactured so
far all seem to be unable to achieve greater precision than a
millionth of a second a day! Quite extraordinary, perhaps, to
the layman but not to the scientist.
Though the new thallium clock has already attained this
precision, it apparently is still not accurate enough to satisfy
modern scientific needs, and the Neuchatel research team
thinks that the work in progress indicates that in the “not too
distant future” it will be perfectly feasible to measure time
with an accuracy of a ten-millionth of a second a day.
UK PROPERTY DEVELOPERS
STILL NIBBLING
more people in the UK convinced of a Labor victory
” at the next election, doubts have been raised on the pros-
pects of the big property developers. One of these, Hammer-
son Property and Investment Trust, has property interests in
Australia (Warringah Mall).
London financial reviewers claim that some of Hammerson’s
current projects will show a good margin over the normally
accepted target of 8i p.c. An above-average return is expected
from the Australian investment.
If the two factors are taken in conjunction fear of a
Labor Government policy towards property developers and an
above-average return in Australia it is little wonder that
UK property investors are looking Down-Under.
Not everyone agrees, of course, that a prospective Labor
Government will be such a bogy. The stock market, pricing
Hammerson’s shares at around 30s. to yield only 2.4 p.c.,
evidently expects long-term benefits from the group's develop-
ment projects. There is fierce competition for development
sites in the UK, according to chairman Mr Sydney Mason, thus
possibly causing directors to raise their sights to far fields.
The trend has become fashionable with other developers,
evidently, with Oddenino interested in the Prince’s Gate project
with Lend Lease in Melbourne and the City of London Real
Property Co. Ltd said to be a possible bidder for L. J. Hooker’s
Royal Exchange building in Sydney.
An English real estate company, Goddard & Co., recently
purchased, on behalf of a number of UK companies, the
Sydney County Council’s Martin Place block for £.A900,000
half a million below the price offered by a London firm in
1961.
Australia already has witnessed a steady trickle of UK
interest in real estate with people like Jones, Lang, Wootten &
Sons. London County Freeholds and several London banking
and investment groups already committed.
Had it not been for the sharp setback to confidence which
occurred when Reid-Murray, Chevron, Stanhill and Latec
crashed, the flow of overseas money would have been even
stronger.
GALLAHERS GUNNING ALONG
TOBACCO FRONT
Britain’s No. 2 tobacco giant Gallaher Ltd can scarcely
expect to make as quick and heavy a dent in the Austra-
lian market as the last brilliant invader, established companies
will be in no doubt on its drive, capacity and financial resources.
They also know that Gallaher would not have chosen this
country for its first international manufacturing venture with-
out a canny estimate of success.
The UK company’s turnover last year reached £stg 349
million and it claims some 35 p.c. of that home market, against
the formidable Imperial Tobacco’s 60 p.c. The criss-cross and
contortions of brand names shared between the tobacco trade
in various sections of the world will not permit Gallaher to
launch several of its best-known products here, since the names
are held by rivals.
But it intends to cover the whole field —cigarettes, tobacco,
cigars and . . . snuffs! There is nothing to prevent a new
brand specifically aimed for this particular market.
The managing director of Gallaher International (Mr A. W.
S. Pollock), now in Australia, could not last week be enticed
on any of the most important questions. The exact time of
start-up, the situation of factories, prices and so on remain
cloaked with competitive mystery. One thing is clear—finance
will be entirely from the parent to start with, and the parent’s
accounts furnish evidence that a massive campaign can be
waged.


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DKAPER, R. F CORMIE.
G H. STEPHENS
(Members ol Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: ‘NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines! No. IBB7W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: GOK9.
ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Ord, J. A. iVI. Min nett, M. A Gleeson-
White, lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger
Members o 1 the Sydney Stock Exchange
L L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft.
R. V Betts
Non-Membei Partners
13-15 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
Tel. 25 5711. 25 6011 Telex 5243
Branches at;
150 Queen St., Melbourne
359-369 Queen St.. Brisbane
Cables & Telegrams:
‘Orderley Sydney Melbourne & Brisbane
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Myopic View on Interest Rates
Tn the light of the stickiness in bank
advances and employment in May, it
seems pretty clear that the persistent
downward movement of interest rates
since February has so far had little im-
pact on the general stream of economic
activity. So the question arises whether
the lowering of interest rates has gone far
enough, and whether, in the absence of
switching by the institutions from a
“bond” to a “commercial” investment
mentality, something more positive than
last week’s rubber stamping of market
semi-Government rates is required from
the authorities to drive interest rates
lower.
Two separate lines of approach at
present suggest themselves to take the
reduction in interest rates a decisive stage
further in the task of increasing activity.
One is stronger central bank open market
operations to raise bond prices, and the
other to scrap tax concessions attached to
the 30/20 rule so as to make commercial
loans more attractive to life companies.
Coupled with these the Treasury could
give a lead to lower rates by cheapening
the terms of issue of Treasury Notes.
For the time being there is no question
of operating directly on official bond
rates, because the next loan terms (for
the September loan) won’t come up for
decision until after the Budget in August.
Even then it would be optimistic to ex-
pect the Treasury to do other than
slavishly follow the market, which at pre-
sent is giving a yield of just under 4.6
p.c. on 22-year bonds, compared with
the official bond rate of 5 p.c. for loans
of that currency. By the same token, if
bond yields could be driven lower by
market forces, the Treasury would seem
most likely to accept the fait accompli
for bond rate.
in March, following the bumper
subscription to the February loan and
the decision not to have a cash loan in
May, it was suggested here that, as a
limit, long-term bond yields could con-
ceivably be driven down to 4\ p.c. by
market forces before the September loan.
But without some further strengthening of
these iorces, it would seem at this stage
that a cut from 5 to 4i p.c. in the long-
term bond rate is about as much as can
reasonably be expected in the terms for
that loan.
And even a cut of this dimension,
though it might seem dramatic enough
to the uninitiated, would lose much of its
psychological impact were it merely to
reflect the market pattern of interest rates.
Clearly the Treasury puts no store on
psychological impact of official bond rate
moves in Australia. Other countries, such
as Britain, the US and France, know
better and have useful interest and dis-
count rate instruments to get general re-
sponses in their economies to official
direction of interest rates.
It is certainly true that thus far in
the post-recession period and there is
a strong reason for this the institutions
have failed to see commercial invest-
ments in as glamorous a light as in the
years before the recession, though
naturally the first-class ones such as
BHP’s 7 p.c. debentures which, issued at
par, are now showing a yield of only 5.65
p.c. are obvious exceptions. While
industrial growth remains in its present
hesitant state this is bound to be the
case.
There is also something in the thought
that in addition to the institutions still
not being terribly interested in expand-
ing their stake in commercial investment
for its own sake while attractive interest
can be earned from Government and
semi-Government securities, industrial
companies keeping funds available for
expansion are being inhibited by similar
considerations in their capital spending.
In a word, at this stage in the trade
cycle the high sophistication achieved by
the money market in Australia in recent
years could well be working to the detri-
ment of commercial and industrial in-
vestment through its provision of such
comfortable and highly-rewarding nests
of liquidity. There is not such a wide gap
as may seem at first sight between the
cautionary motives of personal savers,
who have been so comfortably cosseted
by savings banks in the last few years,
and the industrialists who find safe
and rewarding havens in the money mar-
ket and bonds where they can keep their
powder dry.
Certainly all these classes of savers
—the institutions, personal savers and
companies alike have never had
such attractive inducements to keep out
of risk investments as they’ve had in the
last few years. As well as the high
rewards for keeping funds flexible and
liquid, the improved facilities of the
money market appear to have con-
tributed significantly to these induce-
ments.
Nobody would want to put the clock
back in the capital market, least of all
the Government which, not the economy,
has been the main beneficiary of the
heightened sophistication there, at least
in the last two years. For its part, in-
dustry has found it a haven for surplus
funds in uncertain times, and before long
will turn to it again as successfully as in
the days before November, 1960. Though
the market has had a thin time for a
year or two and has had to lean all too
heavily on trade in Government securi-
ties, it can look forward to wider com-
mercial functions as the national dice are
loaded less in favor of liquidity.
Certainly the cash inducements to stay
liquid have diminished in recent months
by substantial reductions in bank, semi-
Government, short-term money market
and Treasury Notes interest rates and
the attrition in bond yields. As this trend
is now securely established not everyone
will agree that it should be hurried along.
For reasons of its own, the Treasury for
one is obviously anxious not to force the
pace. It received a huge bonus from the
capital market in 1962-63 and, looking
forward to the new year of loan raising,
it will be keeping its fingers crossed for
another good harvest.
However, one may hope for but
not necessarily expect a less myopic
view by the Treasury than it took last
year, which would give more em-
phasis to the beneficial effects of further
reductions in interest rate on industrial
and commercial expansion and a bit less
to the narrow requirements of the ex-
chequer.


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of
New Soutli Wales on Bth March, 1950.
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Oil
PER ANNUM
TO 10 YEARS
also available
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
Rates from 6% p.a. for
6 months to B}% p.a. for
4 to 10 years.
Full details of these issues will be found in the Company's
Prospectus which is available at all branches of the
Company's Bankers, the Bank of New South Wales,
any Member of the Stock Exchange, or any office of
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited
Applications may be made only on the forms attached
to the Prospectus.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George St., Sydney. Phone: 27-8621
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • WAGGA • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE
CC 162 AB
OIL SEARCH
The Strikes at
Moonie
and Cabawin
Satisfactory though it is, the strike of
oil at two separate levels (5648 ft-
-5668 ft and 5800 ft) in the intra-struc-
ture well Moonie No. 17 is shaded in im-
portance by Union-Kern-AOG’s current
drilling at Cabawin 20 miles to the north
of Moonie.
Union-Kern-AOG group is now dril-
ling its fifth hole at Cabawin, where
early in 1961 (at around the 10,000 ft
level) No. 1 well flowed at a rate of 60
b/d gravity oil, emitted gas at the rate
of 500,000 cu. ft a day and was prepared
for production.
Between its first and fifth wells in the
Cabawin area Union-Kern-AOG drilled
three dry holes at Cabawin East, Tara
and Undulla, but these were all from
four to 19 miles from Cabawin No. 1.
However, the present one, Cabawin No.
2, is only one mile to the north of No. 1.
The latest move to drill in the immedi-
ate vicinity of Cabawin No. 1 is taken
to mean that the group is much more
confident of the production potential of
Cabawin No. 1, or at any rate of possible
holes in its immediate vicinity, than they
have so far intimated. Alternatively, it
could mean that this first discovery hole
was on the edge of the structure there,
and that subsequent surveys have indicat-
ed the site for the new well to be nearer
its centre.
Union-Kern-AOG is now confining its
strictly Moonie activities to intra-structure
wells such as Moonie No. 17 which is
located half a mile west of Moonie No.
1. This follows the failure of the step-
out well Moonie No. 16 (seven-tenths
of a mile from the previous most north-
western flowing well in the Moonie field
and abandoned in May) and also of
Southwood No. 1 (about three miles
north-west of Moonie and abandoned at
10,897 ft as a dry hole early in June).
This does not preclude further wild-
catting by the group which is now prob-
ing further to the south in its Surat Basin
permit area by drilling at Boomi over the
NSW border, 375 miles from Sydney.
This is the first Union-Kern-AOG hole
in NSW, though not, of course, AOG's
first, because it has already drilled a large
number of successful gas holes in the
Sydney basin. Boomi is down to 6010 ft.


THE MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
INCORPORATED IN N.S.W. sth MARCH, 1936
Paid-up capital, £2,108,235
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
P.A.
6-10
YEARS
71% p.a
5 years
7% p.a 4 years
®2% P*a. 3 years
6% p.a 2 years
Cumulative, 71% p.a 6-20 years
Applications accepted only on the form referred to in
and attached to the printed prospectus which is available
from:
Bank of N.S.W. at any of its branches
Any Member of a recognised Stock Exchange
THE UNDERWRITERS—IAN POTTER & CO.
(Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
44 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE COMPANY LIMITED
316 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 61 9701
Trustee for Debenture Stockholders: Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
6-NSW
“CROESUS”
Hoover Vacuums Franchises
Qtrong commercial reasons prompted
Hoover to bring the wholesaling of
its appliances in the two biggest State
markets, Victoria and NSW, directly
under its own control as it is in Queens-
land, but not as yet in WA and SA.
The company’s finance director, Mr
F. A. Buttner, told The Bulletin in
Melbourne that, because of the indus-
try’s present hectic competitive situation,
it was imperative for Hoover to be in the
position of dealing with retailers direct
and on a national basis. Clearly with
practically all its competitors by-passing
the independent wholesaler, Hoover was
bound sooner or later to swallow up that
part of the market which has built such
comfortable nests for sales and service
on the flimsiest of tangible asset twigs
for Consumer Services (Vic.) and Drylec
(NSW).
Moreover both these companies can
be thankful for getting such generous
deals from this multi-national company
for the loss of their Hoover franchises,
the more so since these were terminable at
six months’ notice without compensation.
Talking to art connoisseur Mr Aubrey
Gibson, chairman of Consumer Services,
who has been wedded to Hoovers for
many years, he seemed to think that
this was one of those good things that
eventually had to come to an end.
As a result of the pay-off Consumers
Services will end up with a big pile of
cash and an uncertain future, all its
facilities and staff going to Hoover. But
it didn’t pass unnoticed that, thin though
this wedge of Australian commercial life
may be, here was another area of profit
falling to an overseas company.
So it was appropriate that on the
morrow of the announcement Mr Stani-
forth Ricketson, champion of the cause
of more of Australian industry for Aus-
tralians, pronounced in very restrained
terms to shareholders of one of his
companies that “the authorities would be
very wise to consider enforcement of the
offering to Australian investors of 30 p.c.
of shares in Australian registered com-
panies owned by overseas interests.”
As he said, this was the subject of a
recent Gallup Poll in Victoria which
showed that three-quarters of those in-
terviewed favored the proposal as against
17 p.c. against and 8 p.c. undecided
about it.
Mr Ricketson was most polite about
its advocacy. He said there was no
thought of confiscation or even of Aus-
tralian domination of enterprises financed
by overseas investors. On the other hand,
he saw “an element of justice” in it and,
furthermore, “considerable gain to the
overseas companies in marketing their
products here if the Australian public
knew that at least a reasonable part of
the capital employed was held by fellow
Australians.”
In his view this does not in any way
ignore the value of overseas capital, or
the important part which it has played
in the development of this country since
the war. It does not even touch upon the
problem which has faced Canada, where
important industries are dominated and
controlled by American interests.
“The proposal put forward is not un-
reasonable and should go far to allay the
prejudice against overseas investment
which is becoming apparent,” he added.
In the case of Hoover, Mr Buttner
said, a public issue was under continual
examination, but all overseas subsidiaries
were fully owned by the US parent com-
pany. Last year was the first for many
years for which any profits (£100,000)
had been remitted overseas by the Aus-
tralian company. “Plough back” was the
policy, as witness the company’s
financing of its Ryde factory, where 40
p.c. of its locally marketed appliances
were now made and where employment
had risen from 150 to 700 in the last five
years.


if it’s urgent
I PEC
<1
tNTCRSTATE PARCEL EXPRESS
IPEC\
send it I PEC
EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICE
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
INVESTMENT SECTION
What Does 1963-64 Offer Investors?
TlJith the end of another financial year
"" hard upon them many investors,
both in and out of the sharemarkets,
still manage to convey a rather restless
air of expecting something radical to
happen before that magic date June 30.
Patent evidence of the markets’ sus-
tained firmness and a return of healthily
reasonable turnovers do not seem enough.
Must there always be a yearning for the
panting days of 1959-60?
Before attempting a precise rebuttal of
those ambitions, it may be well to des-
cribe briefly the immediate situation.
Measured by the Sydney all-ordinary
index, now at around 319, share prices
generally hold their best level since
March, 1962. For comparison, the
famous all-time peak reached 348.46 on
September 16, 1960.
No one, not even remaining pessi-
mists on the economic front, could point
to any evidence of a major price retreat.
Allowing for the deflationary discipline
imposed on Australian business, a wide
variety of shares stand remarkably high.
Industrial improvement has also allowed
the status of traditional leaders to be
practically re-established.
Of the principal investment groupings
only building materials and fuel and
power continue below their opening in-
dex levels on January 1. Only textiles
have shown just a minimal move ahead.
Most of the market look: remarkably
rid of deleterious influences, economic,
technical and international.
But the old, boom-happy attitude of
wishing for clear overall advances dies
hard. It is certainly not easy for the
smaller investor to accustom himself to
an atmosphere where he cannot “buy the
index” or roam the market almost heed-
less of actual company performance.
11/hat has occurred is that the desire
and possibility to play the market as a
whole have become out of date. Pro-
ponents of the alleged skill had some wise
words addressed to them last week by
Mr Staniforth Ricketson.
“Some investors seem to hold the view
that the market for ordinary shares is
a single unit liable to general movement
either upward or downward,” he said.
Times when all impinging factors
(technical, economic, international) per-
mit that kind of operation must be par-
ticularly rare. They furnish an unreal
premium to the amateur or those content
to stay ill-informed.
What happens now and should happen
all along? “Changes in price levels have
followed results achieved and buyers of
shares have exercised a proper discrimin-
ation,” Mr Ricketson declares.
He for one scotches any notion of
the so-called general advance. “It may
be,” he says, “that the market will not
move forward as a whole, but neverthe-
less it may be expected that on balance
the trend will be upward. It is unlikely
that anything will occur to stimulate
demand for shares within the next month
or two, but the publication of balance
sheets for the year ending June 30,
1963, may well stimulate interest in
many stocks.”
Quite concretely comes the pay-off:
“There is a wide selection of stocks which
have performed creditably in the last
two years and whose shares offer yields
of 4i p.c. or more.”
Despite the partially hesitant mood
induced by such indicators as slower
trading, bank borrowings and uncertain
employment figures, investors can safely
align their actions to the economic pic-
ture drawn by the recent Treasury White
Paper.
It is still a just summary to assert:
“Probably the outstanding feature of the
period has been the steadiness of ex-
pansion. At times there has been talk
of recovery hesitating or flattening out;
but when the facts have become available
they have usually revealed little sign of
this.
“Meanwhile there has been little to
indicate that overall the pace of ex-
pansion was likely to get too high. Specu-
lation has not reappeared in any sig-
nificant degree and there is much to
suggest that business at large prefers to
keep to a steady rate of growth rather
than attempt any spectacular thrust for-
ward.”
Under such a climate there is not
much purpose in a diffuse approach to
sore spots like unemployment. Specific
programmes for example a distinct
effort to train skills are far more to
the point.
Equally a direct plan for housing
would be more effective than any vague
infiltration of Government funds into the
economy.
In these two fields business and Gov-
ernment could decide to get closely to-
gether, particularly to attain a more
exact approach to their common concern.
Meanwhile the investor should still be
seeing plenty of opportunities.


PUT OPTIONS TO
PROFIT FROM
A DECLINING
MARKET
PUT options provide all the advant-
ages of short selling (i.e., the prac-
tice overseas—of selling shares you
haven't got, in hope of buying them
to fill the orders when the market
drops) but none of the dangers of
unlimited loss. When you feel
that a share is likely to drop in
price, purchase a PUT option at the
current market price. If your hunch
is right, in 3 to 6 months time, or
whatever term you have chosen, you
purchase shares at the then market
price, and exercise your PUT option,
written at a higher price, and make
a substantial profit. The most you
can lose is the price of your PUT
option.
To learn more about this or other types of
option transfers —Phone or post coupon today.
To MONTGOMERY HUGHES & CO. PTY. LTD.
324 Pitt Street, Sydney. Phone: 26 1024.
Please send further information to:
Name
Address.
Tropical Temptation
TTnilever’s rumored design to distribute
(not make) ice cream in Queensland
would bring Queensland United Foods
right into a competitive line of fire.
Since the Rosella bid an even more dram-
atic fate has been predicted for the com-
pany. It’s a tempting takeover prospect
for some defensive local or offensive
overseas giant.
That possibility dawned even when
Pauls Ltd, Peters-Arctic Delicacy and
Peters-Arctic Delicacy (NQ) came to-
gether to form the holding company in
1960. One prominent Queensland broker
puts it succinctly: “The merger was a
logical step to remove competition but
leaves the combined company wide open
to takeover.”
Queensland United makes a tempting
target. Through 23 subsidiaries it be-
strides the northern State in milk pro-
cessing and distribution, ice cream, but-
ter, milk powders, cheese, frozen con-
fectionery and frozen foods. Modernisa-
tion and expansion are keeping all these
activities well up to scratch.
Diversification has also been sensibly
used to give additional strength. Early in
June directors thoroughly examined three
private companies which had approached
them and finally absorbed Corbetts Tim-
bers, Len Butterworth Holdings (maker
of fibre glass products) and Normanby
Rum Distillery.
They accomplished all this by issuing
only £247,834 face value of new stock
and some sage ruminations on the art
of controlled diversification.
“Your board has beer thoroughly
mindful of recent unfortunate experi-
ences resultant upon headlong expansion
into new fields with untried management,
and in some cases with attendant over-
capitalisation,” shareholders were told.
Perhaps the southern States’ Peters—
Peters (Vic.) and Consolidated Milk in
NSW might have something to say if
a complete outsider attempted union up
north. Investors remain quietly confident
of the company as it stands, pricing the
ss. shares near 14s. to yield 3.6 p.c.
Shipper’s Smokescreen
hen The Bulletin looked at How-
” ard Smith Ltd in “Behind the Bal-
ance Sheets” in the issue of June 8, the
20s. shares were 475. 6d.
On light trading, the shares moved up
3s. 6d. before directors announced a one-
for-five bonus. The last time directors
were so moved was only three years ago,
when a simultaneous cash and bonus
issue made the first capital change for
36 years.
The company expects to hold 10 p.c.
dividends on the higher capital, equal
to 12 p.c. on the old, yet last year to
December 31, earnings were only 10.1
p.c. on capital, and 4.8 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds.
What has happened to warrant this
show of confidence? Who is the company
trying to impress?
Nominal capital is being increased
from £4.5 to £lO million. Could these
moves be the prelude to another take-
over effort?
The Adelaide Steamship Co. Ltd (paid
capital £4,650,270) has been discussing
a merger with Mcllwraith McEacharn
Ltd for the past three months.
Adelaide Brewing Lift
T'he brewery glow did not take long
A to evince itself in Adelaide after
illuminating Sydney (Tooths) and Perth
(Swan).
SA Brewing also joins the others with
a record profit for the latest year to
February 28. Earnings swept up from
£441,211 to £534,569, equivalent to
11.7 p.c. on ordinary capital.
Characteristically, taxation and depre-
ciation provisions are conspicuous by
their absence. As a year or two ago,
directors probably trust shareholders to
believe these allowances are “adequate.”
The year’s sales get the modest de-
scription of having “increased in propor-
tion to population growth,” while in-
come was augmented as well by rentals
from the company’s new and remodelled
hotels.
The ss. shares stand around 16s. 3d.
to yield 3.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. dividend.
For comparison, Tooth at present yields
3.4 p.c. and Swan 3.3 p.c.
Another Share Split
Shareholders of J. C. Ludowici and
Son Ltd received a surprise with the
news that directors proposed a one-for-
two bonus and a share split from 20s. to
ss. units.
Earning rate last year to December
31 was 20.4 p.c., of which 15 p.c. was
distributed. Directors indicate dividends
of at least 10 p.c. after the bonus, but as
this represents no increase in income,
shareholders can expect a higher rate.
Profits in 1961 and 1962 were sig-
nificantly lower than in the two pre-
ceding years, after smaller tax provisions.
Directors explained last year’s low pro-
vision (£9,087 compared with after tax
profit of £31,044) was due to tax con-
cessions and use of excess provisions of
earlier years.
General accounting practice is to show
excess provision as a separate item in the
profit and loss appropriation account.
The company, which makes and dis-
tributes power transmission products,
packings and industrial gloves will have
a paid capital of £287,500 after the
bonus, £lOO,OOO in preference shares.
The 20s. shares are traded (Sydney
only) about twice a month, so the share
split and bonus will lead to greater ac-
tivity.
Recent sales at 625. 9d. (yield 4.8 p.c.)
indicate a post-bonus price of around
10s. 6d.
Island Trader Cheap
HThe yield of 4.7 p.c. showing on Burns
Philp (South Seas) Co. Ltd shares
should appeal to investors who are aware
that the price of 475. 6d. is close to the
lowest levels for the past four and a half
years.
Profit for the last year to January 31
was equal to 15.3 p.c. on steady capital,
giving a 50 p.c. margin on the usual 10
p.c. dividend.
There is little evidence of growth, but
the remarkable consistency of earnings
and dividends and the solid asset backing
provide security for shareholders, who
can also expect a repetition of previous
price swings above the current level.


First National Hire Purchase Company
k
Incorporated 1925
ISSUE OF
REGISTERED NOTES
6 to 10 years
7%
5 years, 6J°/o • 4 years, 6y°/o
3 years, 6°/o • 2 years, sj°/o
Short-term stock also available from 3 months at p.a.
Applications for Registered Notes can be accepted only on the
printed form included in the prospectus. Copies of the full
prospectus with application. forms obtainable from any A.G.C.
branch, your Stockbroker and all branches of the Bank of
New South Wales in Australia, Papua and New Guinea.
PAID UP CAPITAL £8,950,000
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
Cnr. Phillip and Hunter Sts., Sydney © 2 0324
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide • Perfh • Hobarf • Canberra
m
RN2 NB
Shavings from Kauri
IZauri Holdings appears to be break-
ing the back of its own troubles,
which is just as well after all that painful
reconstruction. How far the greatly
pruned timber giant can conquer the
endemic problems of a sick industry still
remains to be shown.
At least the six months to February
produced a profit and the truncated
group continues to operate profitably.
Should the trend last to August, directors
believe the return to dividends will be in
accord with their reorganisational fore-
casts 5 p.c. on ordinaries as a final
to indicate a 10 p.c. annual rate.
They point out, however, that the in-
dustry is “far from buoyant.” But any
profit, providing it gives signs of being
maintained, must look a far cry from
the disastrous losses of £742,246 for
1962 and £353,964 in 1961.
The current year has been budgeted to
yield not less than £200,000 profit, quite
a tremendous swing around.
Directors still face some difficulties in
a planned disposal of unprofitable assets.
The interim report mentions that this
operation proceeds “substantially in line”
with earlier hopes.
The ss. shares (written down from
205.) took a mild 3d. spurt up to 4s. 9d.
This year has seen a high at 4s. lid. and
a low at 4s. 4d.
Tauhmans’ Dividend
*TPhe Taubmans Industries Ltd decision
to increase interim dividend from
5 p.c. to 7 p.c. “to restore a closer re-
lationship to the anticipated final divi-
dend” should not lead investors to believe
that total payout will necessarily be any
greater than last year’s 15 p.c.
The report that sales and profit for
the June half-year would compare fav-
orably with that for 1962 suggests that
an earning rate of close to 20 p.c. will
be within the company's capacity for
1963.
At 13s. 6d. the ss. shares are more
highly rated than they have been for
many years. The income return is 5.6 p.c.
Present price looks high enough for
an income stock with limited growth
prospects.
A. E. Goodwin’s Big; Order
A . E. Goodwin Ltd, subsidiary of A. G.
Healing Ltd, has a <£2.B million
order to build 40 diesel-electric loco-
motives for the NSW Railways. First
deliveries will be made in February, 1964.
A. G. Healing’s offer to shareholders
of Westcott Hazell and Co. Ltd, the
automotive equipment and general en-
gineers, is still open.
The Healing ss. shares, now 9s. 6d.
to yield 7.9 p.c., might weaken under
the influence of the takeover.
Co> increte Caution
TCfow is hardly the time to expect the
'*■' sharemarkets to get particularly stir-
red up about quarrymaster Farley and
Lewers’ first venture into ready-mixed
concrete. In the event, the ss. shares slip-
ped back from 14s. 6d. to 13s. 9d., where
they yield a healthy 5.5 p.c. on the
15 p.c. dividend paid since 1956.
The shares have been as high as
17s. 6d. this year and 13s. 9d. represents
their low point.
Farley’s new Brookvale plant looks
quite a soberly conceived affair, with an
initial capacity of 100 cubic yards an
hour. Directors are obviously feeling their
way and rashness is not to be charged
against this company.
The 1961-62 profit went up from
£45,700 to £61,225, after a dip to
£31,746 in 1959-60. February's interim
report merely described sales and pro-
fits as being “maintained at a satisfactory
level.”
Chemical Ferment
A blast of fresh air is once again being
blown by ICIANZ through an in-
dustry too much inclined to repine
against imports, withering margins and
all the rigors of self-induced competition.
Not much sting went from these prob-
lems during the last few months. But
one company at least has paid proper
attention to valid expansion, productive
efficiency and cost economics. It reaps
the benefit.
Of course, ICIANZ touches the Aus-


EMC ANDERSON
(CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
RA
SMUT TERM
6 months 6%P-a. 12 months 6-|yop.a ß
LONG TERM
2 years 7% p.a.;3 years TjJq p.a.
4 years p.a. [5 years Bj% p.a,
18 years 87% p.a.
Trustee for Debenture Stockholders:— P. T. PTY.
LIMITED, a wholly owned subsidiary of PER-
PETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED), 33-39
Hunter Street, Sydney.
App'ications will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to in and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
Prospectus may be obtained from and applications lodged with
Any Branch in New South Wales or the Australian Capital Territory
and any City or Suburban Branch in Brisbane, Queensland, of the
following Banks
•tt THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
•& BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
or at
* ERIC ANDERSON (CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED,
125 York Street, Sydney.
* ERIC ANDERSON RADIO-TELEVISION PTY. LIMITED.
Any Branch in Sydney and Suburbs, Wollongong, Pt. Kembla,
Canberra, Queanbeyan and Newcastle.
PACKARD BELL PTY. LIMITED.
Any Branch in Brisbane, Suburbs and Country.
■fr ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE, OR THE
Eft
Underwriting Brokers: RALPH W. KING & YUltl
'Members ot the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20 O'CONNEU STREET, SYDNEY
OR POST THIS COUPON TO:
ERIC ANDERSON (CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
125 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
Please post me, without obligation, a copy of your
Prospectus to:
NAME
ADDRESS
E.A.(Consol.) —2
tralian economy at very many points and
is therefore certain to parallel any
general improvement. The six months
to March must have seen a steady ad-
vance along the lines indicated by the
1961-62 annual report.
Here the joint managing directors
(Messrs K. G. Begg and J. R. A. Glenn)
set that year’s atmosphere: “With a satis-
factory level of production in the leading
primary industries, the demand for our
rural products was well sustained. In-
creased activity in most secondary in-
dustries led to a strengthening of demand
for many of the company's major in-
dustrial products.
“Pressure of competition from very
low-priced imports was maintained and
. . . the downward movement in our
selling prices which has been evident
for several years past was continued.”
Within a roughly similar climate, sales
were raised to £35,006,000 in the six
months ended March 31, compared with
£33,613,000 in the corresponding period
of 1961-62. Turnover continues at these
levels, so it looks evident that the full
1961-62 record of £70,400,000 will be
bettered.
The half-year’s sales included £5 mil-
lion from the recently acquired Common-
wealth Fertilisers and only three months
of terylene-polyester fibre, which is now
marketed by the half-owned Fibremakers
Ltd.
Group profit leapt from an adjusted
£1,507,000 to £1,906,000, so that earn-
ings close to £4 million for the current
year are not beyond the bounds of pos-
sibility. Peak profit so far is 1959-60’s
£3,082,007.
No change is reflected by the steady
3 p.c. interim dividend, though some
yearning hopes may be stirred for the
final. The company circumspectly and
cleverly established a 7 p.c. yearly rate
in 1961 after a 3-for-7 bonus issue,
keeping outlay precisely on a par with
the 10 p.c. paid for the two previous
years.
Share prices can now justifiably go
above last year's top 48s. 9d. They have
been battering this level lately.
King Coles
It can scarcely be unexpected that
G. J. Coles will show a lift in both
sales and profit for the 1962-63 year
ending June 30. Directors neatly put it
that figures for 11 months to May 31
“are on budget and indicate a satisfactory
full year.”
The markets are in no doubt and have
priced the ss. shares up to 15s. 7d.,
where they yield 3.5 p.c. In all circum-
stances still an extremely good buv.
Ralston Subsidiary’s Loss
Tn a period notable for further
incursions on the local food market
by American manufacturers, the loss
recorded by Robert Harper and Co. Ltd
was interesting.
Harper was taken over in October,
1962 (after over a year of takeover
rumors) by Ralston Purina of the US.
For the year to March 31, 1963,
Harper incurred a loss of £53,337.
Prior to the takeover, profits were not
high in relation to capital, and in 1962
the net profit fell from £30,109 to


INVEST
!■■■
NOW
£l f OOO f OOO
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
o
o
a.
20
10
years
7i%
7 years
7%
5 and 6
years
6 \°/o
3 years
Applications must be lodged
on the form attached to the
prospectus.
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE NOTES
Applications must be made
on the form attached to the
prospectus and the acknow-
ledgment will be a Registered
Redeemable Unsecured Note.
HOW TO INVEST
Obtain a prospectus from and
lodge applications at: —
• Any Stockbroker.
• The National Bank of
Australasia Limited.
• Any office of Burns Philp
Trust Co. Ltd. v
• Any store or office of
Waltons Limited.
• Waltons Credit Corpora-
tion Limited, Park and
George Streets, Sydney.
Phone 61-9273.
EE
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
981 £Z SVD
£17,950. Large assets (71s. 9d. per
20s. share) apparently attracted Ralston,
which paid 50s. cash a share in the take-
over.
Harper products are breakfast cereals
and rice. The company operates as both
miller and merchant.
It is probable that the new manage-
ment instituted some pretty drastic
cleaning up in the final six months of
1962-63.
Jervois Fills Issue
IyiELBOURNE and Adelaide dealings
begin this week in the ss. shares
of Jervois Sulphates (NT). The company
had no difficulty in filling the 360,000
issue and the shares became fully paid
last Friday.
Output of copper sulphate from plant
in the Jervois field, 250 miles east of
Alice Springs, is planned to start at 2240
tons a year, which should easily be ab-
sorbed by Australian demands.
Issue to Malayans
TTume Industries (Far East) Ltd has
arranged for Hume Industries (Mal-
aya) Ltd, which was a wholly owned sub-
sidiary, to go public and make an issue
to Malayan citizens.
This will allow the Malayan company
to qualify for pioneer status in the manu-
facture of asbestos cement pipes. (It al-
ready has pioneer status for asbestos
cement sheets.)
Malayan citizens will be offered
1,500,000 shares of Msl each, or 30 p.c.
of the enlarged capital. The money raised
will finance completion of the pipe works
at Petaling Jaya.
Hume Industries (Far East) Ltd, which
is a subsidiary of Humes Industries Ltd,
identified itself with the area, in which
it has operated now for 23 years, by
converting its capital from Australian to
Malayan currency earlier this year.
Iron Hot
Striking while the iron turnover is hot,
BMC dealer Adelaide Motors, whose
interim report a few months ago fore-
shadowed a big lift in profits from last
year’s £112,581, is to undertake a major
reorganisation involving expenditure of
£200,000 over a period of five years,
largely to concentrate all administration,
accounting and financial operations and
also to decentralise managerial and execu-
tive functions. The company is to pur-
chase new premises and plant. The divi-
dend rate has been steady at 13i p.c. for
the last five years.
Stretching Tyre Markets?
tyre industry will soon exhibit the
A same headlong race towards produc-
tion and marketing that distinguishes
aluminium and petrol refining.
Both Dunlop-Olympic’s South Aus-
tralian and Western Australian plants
are planned to give first output by June
next year. The United States Rubber-
SA Rubber factory in Adelaide, an-
nounced right at the end of May, will be
producing tyres in 12 to 15 months.
Whereas Dunlop-Olympic clearly aims
to become more competitive in the State
markets concerned, SA Rubber’s ven-
ture contemplates Australia-wide dis-
tribution. Its size will dwarf all other
newcomers, with a capacity around one
"Gentlemen—business this year has been at an unprecedented low!"


AUSTRALIAN EQUITY
CORPORATION LTD
(Formerly MOTOR CREDITS LIMITED)
£250,000 issue Fully Subscribed
OVER SUBSCRIPTIONS
still being accepted
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
°7°
5-10 YEARS
8
REGISTERED
UNSECURED
NOTES
%
JL_p.a.
2 5 YEARS
(Also shorter term currencies)
Applications will proceed only on the form referred to and enclosed in the
prospectus which can be obtained from:
0 Australian Equity Corporation Ltd,
365 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Telephone: 67 7701.
123„Ryrie Street, Geelong. 9 3597. _
Branches at: Sydney, Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane.
0 Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce jhjsurance Co. Ltd.
0 Any Branch of the Bank of N.S.W. in Victoria and other States.
0 Any Branch Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited in Victoria only.
0 Members of any recognised stock exchange in Australia.
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE: J. B. WERE & SON
3611
million tyres a year and a final cost about
£3 million.
Australia’s present tyre output stands
at about 4i million a year, with capacity
at more than 5 million. Makers are
banking on a continuously buoyant
motor vehicle demand and can’t be tak-
ing much notice of a predicted tailing-
off.
Otherwise they’re heading straight for
the market worries besetting chemicals
and aluminium!
United States Rubber gains its Aus-
tralian foothold by purchasing a 25 p.c.
share interest in SA Rubber Holdings,
apparently from existing shareholders.
Some 1,335,000 20s. shares are involved
and the price is reputed to be above £li
million.
Unbutchered Stags
A ripe baying of stags accompanied the
first day’s trading in butchers’ sup-
plier Colbro Holdings. The ss. shares,
placed at ss. 6d., finished at Bs. 6d. after
touching Bs. 7d.
Initial dealings totalled 5900 shares
and there seemed some momentum left.
The original placement issue was
200,000.
Latest reports indicate that the com-
pany’s activities are moving very success-
fully.
ONE TO BUY
Broons Forging Ahead
T>roons Consolidated Industries ss.
shares call for inspection as the con-
sumer side of the Australian economy
gives more evidence of recovery.
Some suspicion may well fasten on a
group whose operations extend into
timber and housing, still in these days
not bearing the brightest of auguries.
But by far the heaviest emphasis goes
upon packaging, where for instance the
company possesses almost 20 p.c. of the
Victorian fibre box market. Indeed, the
group name was Broons Containers until
September, 1961, when the holding
organisation was set up.
Another sideline is motor distributing,
now completely out of the 1961 wood.
A Melbourne metropolitan Ford dealer-
ship crowns the transport and service-
station subsidiaries.
Directors furnished a generally pleas-
ing picture with their February interim
report. Moreover, favorable trends are
being maintained. Both consolidated sales
and profits went higher in the December
half-year. All divisions operated profit-
ably.
The board very properly saw fit to ap-
pend a rider on the real estate and con-
struction sections, which should have
given due comfort to shareholders.
No land holdings for the construction
division have been revalued since
purchase date, directors mention. They
stand in the books at prime cost and are
being sold satisfactorily.
Encouragingly, book values of estates
developed and held for development are
less than prevailing market values.
All that must be considered by way
of cautious reassurance, since Broon’s
principal benefits come through its con-
tainer division. Here activities embrace
NSW and South Australia, too.
There appears little doubt that most
service, distributing and consumer in-
dustries will accelerate further during
the forthcoming financial year. Broons
itself can produce particularly healthy
results for 1962-63 and is certainly
thoroughly equipped to go ahead.
The packaging factories concentrate
on cardboard and fibre boxes. A useful
connection has been established with
manufacturers supplying goods for ex-
port, so the company is not wholly reliant
on the home market. Nevertheless that
is where the chief improvement will occur
in the near future.
For the year to June 30, 1962, the
first of the holding company, profit moved
up from £164,076 to £173,505, represent-
ing earning rate at 13 p.c. A 10 p.c. divi-
dend has been again confirmed by the
March 5 p.c. interim.
Ruling share prices around 7s. 6d. thus
yield a sizeable 6.4 p.c. This can hardly
be expected to last too long, as recovery
and the company's capabilities manifest
themselves.
Broons seems adequately geared
financially to cope with livelier trade.
Stocks and debtors did not rise unduly
for 1961-62, while overdraft was held
reasonably close to the previous year’s
level.
Considering the deep depression hover-
ing over timber and construction, it was
heartening to learn of continuously pro-
fitable operations.
After the group’s so positive growth
throughout the 19505, dramatic issue re-
wards need not be expected for a time.
Since the 1954 flotation, cash issues com-
prised a one-for-one and a one-for-two,
both at par. The holding company was
formed by a virtual one-for-two bonus.
In the meantime, an assured yield
can’t be sneered at. Two years of expan-
sion also have placed the whole group
in a strategically advantageous situation.


Positions Vacant
THE KING'S SCHOOL
PARRAMATTA
Two MASTERS required to join Teaching Staff in
Ist Term, 1964, one of whom must be able to teach
Science.
Also a TEMPORARY MASTER (History and English)
needed for 3rd Term, 1963.
Full statement of qualifications, copies of two
testimonials and names and addresses of two
referees should be sent to:—
THE HEADMASTER, H. D. HAKE, M.A.(Cantab).
SCOTCH COLLEGE
PERTH
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
wish to appoint a HEAD OF SCIENCE DEPART-
MENT (preferably Physics or Mathematics) as from
Ist February, 1964 Good opportunities for right
man. NEW SCIENCE BUILDING recently erected.
Apply to DR. G. MAXWELL KEYS, Principal.
TEACHER
SYDNEY GRAMMAR PREPARATORY SCHOOL
ST. IVES, N.S.W.
ASSISTANT MASTER required for Grade IV (Boys
aged 9), to commence duties as soon as avail-
able. Salary similar to that of State Service.
Residence available if a bachelor.
Full particulars from HEADMASTER, Ayres Road
West, St. Ives, N.S.W.
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Hard Facts on Reids’ Quarries
FT<he ordinary shares in Reids’ Quarries
have again fallen to 12s. 6d. for
the second period this year. They were
as high as 16s. 9d. during January, but
since then have generally ranged around
13s. 9d. Despite the announcement that
net profit and sales were lower in the
first half of this year, it is worth point-
ing out that before the 10 p.c. dividend
is in danger, earnings would have to
fall at least 35 p.c. below the 1961-62
level.
It may well be that the short-term
prospects for Reids’ Quarries, in com-
mon with all companies engaged in the
production of building materials, are
not particularly bright. On the other
hand, the long-term prospects seem
quite bright. The demand for aggregate
of the higher grades must be fairly
closely tied to the demand for cement,
as cement is mainly used in conjunction
with aggregate.
In 1961 it was estimated by Mr E. M.
Schroder, then president of the Cement
and Concrete Association of Australia,
that Australian cement consumption
would rise to five million tons by 1970.
In other words, over the nine years from
1961 to 1970, consumption would
increase at the average annual com-
pound rate of 6.3 p.c. This annual rate
would be approximately 10 p.c. lower
than the rate of increase in apparent
consumption over the five-year period,
from 1956 to 1961.
Qince demand for aggregate is important
to the quarrymaster only in the area
near to his quarries because transport
costs represent a high proportion of the
cost of his product, it is perhaps worth-
while indicating that planned increases
will more than double Victoria’s cement
production over the three-year period
from 1961 to 1964. While Victoria has
been an importing State, so part of the
increase will go to “import replacement”,
it is worth mentioning that, on a per
capita basis, Victoria was the smallest
user of the eastern States.
During the seven years to 1961, public
authority expenditure on roads increased
at the average annual compound rate of
13 p.c. It is not unreasonable to expect
this rate of increase to continue until
1970, having in mind the various political
pressures for better roads.
The foregoing has been an attempt to
indicate that the demand for quarry pro-
ducts can be expected to increase at a
fairly high rate in the future. It must be
remembered, however, that competition
has increased considerably in recent
years, and there is little doubt that profit
margins have been reduced quite sub-
stantially (particularly in ready-mixed
concrete). Consequently, it would be quite
unrealistic to suggest that, even though
demand will probably increase over the
next seven to ten years at a rate only 10
p.c. less than over the last seven to ten
years, profits will increase at a rate only
10 p.c. less than in the past.
T>eids’ Quarries has some well-known
associates. Ready Mixed Concrete
Ltd has been supplied with aggregate by
Reids for many years and recently it was
announced that they would take a joint
interest in the ready-mixed concrete
operation. This arrangement seems rather
similar to the arrangement between
Ready Mixed Concrete and Blue Metal
Industries Ltd in the Sydney area. For
about 2i years now, Reids have been as-
sociated with Bitumen and Oil Refineries
Ltd through Reid Bros and Carr Pty Ltd,
producer and layer of hot-mix asphalt.
Both these associations provide Reids
with outlets for its aggregate.
In addition, Reids pioneered in Mel-
bourne the production of light-weight ag-
gregate in the expanded shale form and
this material has been used in some of
the taller buildings in Melbourne. While
this product gives Reids a coverage of
the whole range of quarry products, it
is unlikely that it will be a major profit
earner.
Generally, it would seem that Reids is
well equipped to meet the competition
which has developed in quarry materials,
particularly in the Melbourne area, and
although the past record may not be a
strong indication of future profits, it at
least provides a bench-mark for the
future.
Over the seven years from 1956, per
share earnings increased at the average
annual rate of 11 p.c. per annum and di-
vidends per share increased at the rate of
about 8 p.c. per annum. These increases
are very substantial but are influenced
quite markedly by the substantial increase
in earnings in the 1960-61 year, which
has the appearance of being rather an
exception than the rule. However, on a
conservative basis, the annual increase
would have been about 6i p.c. and de-
spite the fairly clear downward trend in
overall profitability (again ignoring the
1960-61 year) there seems every prospect
that earnings could increase at the rate
of 4 p.c. per anum at least up to, say,
1970. If we assume that the new capital
raised at a substantial premium after the
close of the 1961-62 year will earn at the
same rate, then earnings could increase
to over 16 pence per share by 1970.
This gives adequate scope for another
one-for-two bonus issue during this
period and the past history—one-for-two
bonus issues were made in 1956 and
again in 1961 —adds weight to this pos-
sibility.
The price which anyone is prepared
to pay for this stock depends a great deal
on personal opinion regarding the future
of the “industry” generally. If the inves-
tor be very confident in the eventual re-
covery and further expansion of building
and contracting, then it seems that Reids’
Quarries shares should be bought up to
a price of say 15s. 6d. Even a less con-
fident investor could think in terms of
13s. 6d. which is Is. over current level.
It is worth noting that if this stock
should sell at 20 times earnings, as it has
done in the three years 1960, 1961 and
1962, then, even without any allowance
for any increase in earnings for the capi-
tal raised this year, the shares should sell
at 15s. 6d.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
Year ended —
30th June 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current Assets 375 231 353 435 539
Current Liabilities 212 347 365 371 415
Working Caoital 163 (116) (12) 64 124
Fixed Assets 674 1023 1279 1298 1366
Investments 3 11 11 16 39
Intangibles 120 120 120 120 273
Total Capital 960 1038 1398 1498 1802
Represented by:
Unsecured Notes 162 200 200 200 200
Other Loan Capital 5 13 9 24 30
Ordinary Capital 450 450 450 675 736
Reserves 343 375 739 599 836
Estimated Operating
Income 203 210 248 353 326
Earnings 94 83 88 143 144
Ord. Dividends 45 45 45 58 73
Surplus 49 38 43 85 71
Adjusted Earnings % 13.6 12.0 12.7 19.9 19.7
Adjusted Dividend % 6.5 6.5 6.5 8.1 10.0
Dividend Yield % (a) 4.9 3.2 2.5 2.6 3.1
Price/Earnings
Ratio (a) 9.8 17.0 20.3 19.1 20.9
(a) based on last sale in month accounts presented.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Tooth’s Reluctant Reporting
HThe much-awaited new-style accounts
from Tooth and Co. Ltd for the year
to March 31, 1963, have not given read-
ers much more to put their teeth into.
There is no denying that the company’s
assets and earning capacity are extra-
ordinarily strong.
But the company could have aroused
greater public interest if it had given a
more detailed explanation for its 27 p.c.
improvement in profit. A shareholder
would find it hard to determine the trend
of trading without the assistance of Press
interpretations.
Profit in fact rose from the 1961-62
level of £1,504,829 (equal to 15.0 p.c.
on ordinary capital) to £1,911,231 (17.7
p.c.), after providing £1,930,000 for
taxation. This is the first occasion when
tax has been disclosed. It confirms the
general market opinion that Tooth has
been conservative in stating its profits.
As depreciation provision was not
markedly greater (up £53,883 to
£990,733), it is reasonable to assume
that a similar degree of conservatism pre-
vailed in earlier years.
The conservatively stated profits, made
obvious by the tax provision, suggest that
adjustments are necessary to the apparent
earning rates, earnings yields and price/
earnings ratios. The actual profit for
1962-63, using normal accounting
practices, may have been closer to £2.9
million than £1.9 million and would give
an earning rate of about 27 p.c.
More excess provisions were trans-
ferred to reserves this time £503,455
representing accumulated capital profits
from the sale of assets and £2 million
from provision for bad and doubtful
debts. Similar transfers of £5 million in
1958 and £6 million in 1954 buoyed in-
vestors’ hopes of eventual generous
treatment from the company.
Directors said heavy expenditure had
been incurred to install new plant and
equipment in new buildings at the
brewery. Additions of £421,947 to
breweries and freehold properties and
£919,696 to plant, leasehold properties
machinery and motor vehicles were evi-
dent in this year’s balance sheet.
This expenditure of £1.3 million in no
way strained liquidity, for bank balances
rose from £112,101 to £284,351, and
creditors were reduced by £2,014,780 to
£4,012,830, of which £2,801,214 are
trade accounts and the balance unsecured
borrowings and accrued interest.
As the giant in the NSW beer trade,
Tooth is believed to supply 70 p.c. of
consumption, owns over 600 hotels and
controls perhaps 400 more.
It has two breweries in Sydney, and
also produces aerated waters and cor-
dials. Beer has been supplied in cans
as well as bottles since April, 1962. There
is an export market.
Shareholders were called on in July,
1961, for £1,545,664, issued in the ratio
of one-for-six at par. Prior to that, there
had been a one-for-two bonus in 1955.
Dividend has been augmented each
year by £ p.c. since the bonus, except that
there was no change in 1962 after the
par issue. In 1962-63 the rate edged up
to 131 p.c., and this slow progress could
continue to 15 or 16 p.c. before share-
holders reap any more free scrip.
Introduction of the new Companies
Act seemingly has not wrought any
major change in the attitude of manage-
ment to its proprietors, nor added a
great deal to the public’s knowledge of
the company’s affairs. Its undisputed
position in the NSW industry would
hardly be threatened by a little more
candour from directors.
The 20s. shares have run up to 78s.
since the 1963 “disclosures”, but a bonus
issue does not appear imminent. The
1955 issue, in very generous proportions,
was after an interval of 26 years. (This
is not to say that another generous hand-
out is beyond the company’s capacity.)
There is no need to rush into this
undoubtedly solid investment at prices
currently affording a return of around
3.6 p.c. The shares may descend to more
normal levels of about 70s. when the
current froth subsides. However, the
long-term outlook should provide a full
glass for investors.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
March 31 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 7721 8019 8417 8371 10,535
Less current
liabilities 8176 8366 8620 7004 7315
Working capital -455 -347 -203 1367 3220
Investments 202 202 192 192 191
Fixed assets 23,236 23,258 23,332 23,446 24,311
22,983 23,114 23,321 25,005 27,722
Ordinary 9274 9274 9274 10,820 10,820
Reserves 13,709 13,839 14,047 14,185 16,902
22,983 23,114 23,321 25,005 27,722
Depreciation 866 924 923 937 991
Taxation n/a n/a n/a n/a 1930
Net profit 1322 1368 1470 1505 1911
Dividends 1182 1229 1252 1356 1438
Surplus 140 139 218 149 423
Earning rate 14.3 14.8 15.9 15.0 17.7
Dividend rate 121 131 13J 13£ 132
Dividend yield (a) 4.4 4.0 4.0 3.9 —
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 20.4 22.7 22.7 22 7 —
High price (b) 50/6 61/6 74/- 72/6 71/6
Low price (b) 46/- 50/3 55/- 58/9 60/-
(a) End of June, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
FAIRYMEAD SUGAR CO. LTD
A Story of Sweet Success
stock market, which is fairly
conscious of anniversaries, was
taken a little by surprise when Fairy-
mead Sugar Co. Ltd, which produced
its 50th annual report in June last year,
marked the year ended December 31,
1962, as its jubilee year.
Directors have now presented a report
of the 50th year of operations at the
51st annual general meeting.
Shareholders may rejoice that the
company’s jubilee coincided with an
excellent growing season, a record crop,
favorable demand situation, and a record
profit. Their dividend cheques rose in
value accordingly. And reserves
benefited by the transfer of £319,275
tax over-provided in previous years, and
£16,846 provided as insurance on vessels
which are now all sold.
The company was floated in 1912 to
take over the interests of the Young
Brothers who pioneered the sugar in-
dustry in the Bundaberg district of
Queensland in the 1880 s.
Profits have been earned every year
since at least 1929, and dividend omitted
only once —in 1942. Nonetheless, the
magnitude of profits has varied greatly
according to seasonal conditions.
The last bad fright experienced by
shareholders was in 1957. The most


extensive spray irrigation system in the
State was installed, and it proved its
value in 1961 when severe drought
conditions prevailed.
The rainfall in 1962 was well dis-
tributed and a record crop of 393,406
tons was harvested, which produced
56,584 tons of 94 NT sugar in less than
22 weeks. Good rains give promise of
an equally good crop in 1963.
Fairymead owns 25,800 acres in the
Bundaberg area, of which 5,829 acres
are assigned to Fairymead’s own mill
yielding 100,000 tons of cane annually.
Plantations assigned to other mills in the
district yield some 50,000 tons. Over
180 independent planters, as well as the
company’s own plantations, supply the
Fairymead mill.
Management has engineered many
technical improvements in all depart-
ments during the company’s lifetime. All
plantations are worked with the most
modern field plant equipment, from soil
preparation to sowing, watering, cutting
and loading. Last year 80 p.c. of the
total acreage harvested by the company
was done by mechanical means.
Diesel locomotives have replaced
steam to haul the crop to the mill at the
higher rate required. The additional
105,534 tons of cane crushed this year
were handled “effortlessly and economic-
ally,” said directors. Many features,
mostly patented, have been introduced
at the mill for greater mechanisation.
Net result of this very satisfactory
year was a profit of £289,327, after
first revealed tax provision of £145,000,
and depreciation of £91,158. In 1961,
the profit was £180,086, after £82,445
was provided for depreciation.
The earning rate thus moved up from
12.0 to 19.2 p.c. on unchanged capital.
The interim 4 p.c. was followed by a
final 5 p.c. plus 1 p.c. bonus, making
10 p.c. dividend for 1962, against the
1961 rate of 8 p.c.
Annual earnings mainly derive from
sugar, but a stock feed subsidiary grows
lucerne on a 350 acres spray-irrigated
farm at Monto, and sells molasses meal.
Another common diversification for
sugar millers is the running of cattle.
Fairymead runs 13,500 head of Here-
fords and Brahman crosses at Bunda-
berg, Mittagong (NSW) and at Croydon
(Q’ld) in a 50-50 venture with Provincial
Traders (Holdings) Ltd. The latter
property is in the Fitzroy Basin, a
district now being greatly developed.
Company experiments with lot feed-
ing have shown that cattle can be
fattened in from 100 to 120 days two
years earlier than would be necessary
on natural grass.
In their report of 50 years’ progress,
directors told shareholders that in the
last decade Fairymead had converted
more than 5000 acres of forest and
ti-tree swamp into model cane farms, at
a cost of almost £BOO,OOO.
A one-for-two issue of 20s. shares at
10s. premium was made in 1952, raising
£375,000, but otherwise expansion and
modernisation have been financed from
retention of profits, and with the assist-
ance of the company’s bankers.
Overdraft at December 31 appears
substantial at £679,427, but was in fact
a £332,693 improvement on the 1961
balance outstanding.
Since the one-for-one bonus of 1960,
shareholders’ income has increased by
two-thirds.
As both grower and miller, Fairymead
will share in the current boom conditions
for sugar. All sugar stocks have
achieved higher ranking in the last six
months, and by last year’s price range,
Fairymead is definitely no bargain now.
The current price level of 51s. 6d.
for the 20s. shares, to yield 3.9 p.c.,
would deter all but the temporary
investor prepared to take his profit as
soon as world market conditions for
sugar shows less favorable trends.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
December 31 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 1251 1176 1133 1178 1271
Less current
liabilities 1400 1258 1253 1451 1153
Working capita! —149 —82 -120 -273 118
Investments 10 12 14 16
Fixed assets 2520 2610 2741 2948 2953
2381 2540 2635 2691 3090
Ord. capital 750 750 1500 1500 1500
Reserves 1631 1790 1135 1191 1590
2381 2540 2635 2691 3090
Depreciation — 77 78 82 91
Taxation n/a n/a n/a n/a 145
Net profit 168 180 210 180 290
Dividends 90 90 120 120 150
Surplus 78 90 90 60 140
Earning rate 22.4 24.0 14.0 12.0 19.3
Dividend rate 12 12 8 8 10
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 11.1 14.9 14.1 12.1 —
Dividend yield (a) 4.8 3.3 4.1 5.6 —■
High price (b) 54/3 68/6 89/6 40/- 36/6
Low price (b) 42/9 48/6 30/6 31/- 26/9
(a) End of following June, month accounts pre-
sented.
(b) Calendar and financial year.
MARK FOYS LTD
Fighting the Tides
new management at Mark Foy’s
Ltd, Sydney retailer, has devoted its
first full year to elimination of unprofit-
able activities, discounting of stocks, and
he letting of some of the 80,000 square
feet of surplus store space.
The net result of their efforts was a
group profit of £60,996 after tax of
£16,332 and depreciation of £26,191 for
the twelve months to February 28, 1963.
In the previous year, the operating com-
pany had incurred a loss which subsidiary
profits converted to a profit of £18,838,
after no allowance for tax provision and
a depreciation charge of £28,551. In
1962-63, the subsidiary, which had been
purchased the year before for tax losses,
remitted a dividend of £54,000 to the
parent.
Directors felt sufficiently confident of
the company’s prospects to pay the 12J
p.c. ordinary dividend as usual, although
the ordinary and preference dividends
took £83,920, or £22,924 more than the
profit. This is the second successive year
in which reserves have been drawn upon.
A long-term loan has been arranged on
equitable terms with a life assurance office
which, directors believe, will take care of
financial requirements for the next five
years. At present it is “fairly flush” for
funds.
The 1962-63 balance sheet reveals no
major change in group assets. Bank over-
draft was reduced from £214,739 to
£178,377, and unsecured loans borrowed
at cheaper than bank rates and repay-
able at call rose from £.100,000 to
£300,000.
A contingent liability exists in respect


COMPANY LIMITED
mi
FINANCIER
Registered First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
feeing accepted
ISSUE OF
£1,000,000
Trustee for Deben-
ture Stock Holders:
Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
6% .... 2 YEARS
6i% .. 3 YEARS
7% .... 4 YEARS
7i% .. 5 YEARS
PER ANNUM FOR 6 & 10 YEARS
APPLICATION AND PROSPECTUS
Applications will proceed only on one ot
the forms of application referred to in
and attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus Prospectus may be obtained
from:
• All Branches of the Bank ot New
South Wales in New South Wales.
Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland
# Any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT
CO. LTD.
Head Office:
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
and Branches
Telephone BW 4521
Underwriting Brokers
RALPH W. KING & YUILI
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O'Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne
340 Queen Street, Brisbane
Brokers for Victoriai
CLARKE & CO.
450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange ot
Melbourne)
Brokers for Queensland)
CHARLES ELLIOTT & SON
356 Queen Street, Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
Brokers in Australian Capital Territory)
T. J. THOMPSON & SONS
C.B.C. Chambers, Petrie Street, City,
Canberra
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
of a writ for £25,000 damages for alleged
dismissal of the former chairman and
managing director (Mr H. M. Macken).
Under new direction, Mark Foy’s has
expanded to the medium price range of
fashion goods, and to the suburbs. Before
the end of the year stores should be open
in Double Bay, Rockdale and Eastwood.
Pymble and Northbridge stores are al-
ready operating profitably.
The huge properties which Foy’s had
been maintaining at great cost have been
looked over critically by the new manage-
ment. The fifth floor of the piazza build-
ing and a floor of the Goulburn Street
bulk store have been let, and certain un-
profitable service departments have been
licensed to independent operators.
The furniture building is to be let, and
the furniture department moved over to
the main store. Other departments have
been consolidated to produce economies.
No firm evidence is yet available as
to the effect of the new council car park
on store trade and the Mark Foy’s own
car park business.
Plans to add to the Little Shop in King
Street have been stayed, pending definite
development of the Queen’s Square area.
A number of problems which the new
management inherited are fairly easily
remedied, but the location of the main
store is liable to remain as a more per-
manent handicap.
Changes in transport patterns have
drained life from the Central Station end
of the city. Most development is cur-
rently taking place at the Quay end
and it will be many years before recon-
struction takes place around Liverpool
Street to restore the balance.
Anthony Horderns and Mick Simmons
are having an equally tough time fighting
the tide. The problem is not peculiar to
Mark Foy’s.
First-class management might succeed
in restoring Mark Foy’s as a flourishing
business. Superior merchandising could
lure the shopper away from crowded
Market Street.
Rapid and drastic reorganisation is
necessary to stem the loss of prestige, both
as a retailer and an investment.
In valuing the 5s. shares at around
10s. to yield 6.2 p.c. on an uncovered
dividend, the market is giving Mark Foy’s
the benefit of many doubts.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
February 28 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 1509 1426 1597 1290 1539
Less current liabilities 869 774 957 726 929
Working capital 640 652 640 564 610
Investments 14 13 14 14 14
Fixed assets 957 979 1017 1021 980
Intangibles — — — 2 —
1611 1644 1671 1601 1604
Preference capital 273 273 273 273 273
Ordinary capital 540 540 540 540 540
Reserves 798 831 858 788 791
1611 1644 1671 1601 1604
Depreciation 24 21 24 28 26
Taxation n/a n/a n/a nil 16
Net profit 103 116 136 19 61
Net profit for ords 87 100 120 3 45
Dividend 68 68 68 68 68
Surplus 19 32 54 -65 -23
Earning rate 16.1 18.5 22.1 0.5 8,3
Dividend rate 11 12£ 12£ 12£
Dividend yield (a) 5.8 4.2 5.2 6.0
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 10.6 16.1 1(19 42.0
High price (b) 9/1 12/6 15/- 13/- 14/9
Low price (b) 7/7 8/6 11/6 9/11 9/3
(a) End of June, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
Below Expectations
/George Weston Foods Group, formed
into a holding company last year,
says its profit of £750,947 for the year
to January 2, 1963, was “somewhat less
than anticipated” but considering the tax
provision was £.556,023 the actual profit
looks to have been more than stated. In
any case £440,904 of it was earned by
subsidiaries prior to the formation of
the holding company.
Westons, which now has about 50
Australian subsidiaries including Ryvita,
N. B. Love Industries, Tip Top Bakeries
and Phoenix Biscuits, started life here
on the acquisition of the entire Aus-
tralian interests of Associated Foods Ltd
(UK) in bread, cake and biscuits. It also
acquired Associated's interests in NZ at
the same time. Westons now has about
9 p.c. of the Australian biscuit market.
The Blot
VlfHEREAS ten years ago National Reli-
" ance, one of the Capel Court in-
vestment companies, was able to show an
appreciation of only 5.8 p.c. in the market
value of its investments over cost, at
March 31 this year the appreciation was
as much as 98.5 p.c., which is a high
recommendation for companies of this
sort under first-class management.
The only blot last year was the pur-
chase of 11,144 Reid Murray shares,
presumably as a spec, because they were
apparently no sooner in the portfolio than
out again. At March 31 National Reli-
ance still had a number of Reid Murray
shares, now worthless.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
TO: WILLIAM FRANCES DONNELLY, late of
Mungindi. TAKE NOTICE that SYLVIA
SOPHIA DONNELLY has filed a Petition for
Divorce Number 326 of 1963 on the ground of
desertion. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 22nd day of July, 1963 and obtain
a copy of the Petition and Notice of Petition
without charge from M. ROSENBLUM & CO.,
Solicitors, 266 Church Street, Parramatta,
New South Wales. If you do not wish to
defend but wish to obtain conies of all docu-
ments filed herein you should file a Notice
of Address for Service on or before such date.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: PETER DESMOND WAKE. TAKE
NOTICE that ELAINE WAKE has filed a
Petition for Divorce number 805 of 1963 on
the grounds of cruelty and drunkenness
NOTWITHSTANDING the facts and circum-
stances set out in the Discretion Statement
filed AND TAKE NOTICE that if you wish
to defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 15th day
of July, 1963. A copy of the Petition may be
obtained without charge from MESSRS.
PETER G. KEARNEY & CO., Solicitors, 254
George Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: FREDERICK ARTHUR HARPER. TAKE
NOTICE that JOAN HARPER has filed a
Petition No. 2063 of 1962 for Divorce on the
ground of desertion or alternatively on the
ground of separation for five years and up-
wards. If you wish to defend you may file
an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 29th July, 1963,
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. McLELLAN O’RYAN
& CO., Solicitors, of 146 Kelly Street, Scone.
C. A. H HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: RONALD MOEERG LAGERSTROM.
TAKE NOTICE that GWENDA MARGARET
LAGERSTROM has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1119 of 1963 on the ground of
separation. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 29th July, 1963, and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from MC-
DONALD & MCDONALD, Solicitors, 17 Bolton
Street, Newcastle, or JOHN CORCORAN &
CO., Solicitors, 2 York Street, Sydney. —•
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Missing Persons
Would any person having any information
as to the whereabouts of DANIEL MURPHY
(height 5'7", weight 11 stone, florid com-
plexion and top joint of right thumb miss-
ing) who was born at Canobolas in 1878 and
who has been missing from his home at 153
Oberon Street, Coogee, since the 7th February,
1955, please communicate with MESSRS.
H. J. ASPINALL & SON, Solicitors, of 74
Pitt Street, Sydney.
ADMINISTRATIVE SECRETARY
The Students' Representative Council of the University of Sydney is
the governing student organisation of the University and requires an
Administrative Secretary to assist its Executive Officers. The essential
feature of the position is ability and willingness to accept administrative
responsibility for a wide range of activities.
Excellent conditions are offered to the successful applicant. Salary
will be by negotiation, with an upper limit, on appointment, of £1,900.
Applications or enquiries should be made to the Vice-President,
S.R.C., University of Sydney, not later than Friday, June 28, 1963.
SPECULAIOR'S DIARY
A Bolt From the Blue
rrHis can be a disheartening sort of
market, can’t it? Just when every-
thing’s going along nicely something
comes out of the blue not Valentina
and wrecks it. That’s what happened
to Philip Morris last week. Its shares
had been steadily creeping up in price
in expectation of a 50 p.c. profit increase
and then Gallahers announces it is going
to set up in Australia. Down came Philip
Morris and Rothmans and British To-
bacco. I suppose it’s only a temporary
slip, but discouraging just the same.
What was less discouraging was my
narrow escape from Fairymead. By sel-
ling out the day the profit announcement
was made, I got 525. 6d. a share. A
week later they were 48s.
This was a classic illustration of how
necessary it is to move quickly in the
present market. There are so many people
waiting for good reports from companies
that when the news comes there is a
stampede to sell. Much the same hap-
pened with C.S.R. Profit up 45 p.c., price
steady.
In fact, the whole sugar situation was
beginning to look a bit edgy so I decided
to make a quick exit from the Pioneer
Sugar shares I bought cum-bonus last
week at 525. I sold them at 445. 6d. ex-
bonus and made a small, but worth-
while, profit of £l5.
Besides I needed the money, and more,
to cover the General Industries option
that expired last week. I took out this
option, on 2,000 shares in March, at an
exercise price of Bs. 9d. and with an
option fee of lid. a share, i.e., a total
of 9s. Bd. I might just as well have saved
myself the trouble because 9s. Bd. was
just about exactly what the price was
when I exercised. At 9s. 9d. the shares
are still less than half their par value.
It seems likely that quite a respectable
profit will be made in the current year
which should lift the price up much
closer to par. But just when this is going
to happen is anybody’s guess. Soon, I
hope.
While dealing in thousands, I jumped
on the Ampol petrolwaggon. Every
broker and his dog now seems to be
recommending Ampol rights, so I went
in for 5,000 at lOd. Some of the big
boys had made their dash at the outset
of the issue, but I stayed my hand until
the entitlements went out usually the
best time to buy and did just as well.
Ampol rights will be around until
August 16 and by then they could be up
to Is. 6d. That may not look much of a
rise but in terms of percentages it would
be 50 p.c., even after brokerage. Of
course, if too many people have the same
idea, it will wreck it for us all.
My other purchase this week involved
a return engagement with Harden and
Johnston, the NSW Chrysler Valiant dis-
tributors. I’ve already made £134 out
of Harden and Johnston this year, but
there could be more in them yet with the
new Valiant on the road.
Admittedly Harden and Johnston has
had a very big price rise over the past
year when the share split and l-for-3
bonus are taken into account. But I’ve
always had a very healthy respect for
any company which makes a bonus issue
part way through the financial year. It
augurs well for the subsequent result.
These purchases sent my debt up to
£304 so I dispensed with the 1,000 Aus-
tralian Factors Victoria I bought in
March at Bs. 6d. The profit of £26
wasn’t very much but it gave me a credit
of £ 160 with my broker.
Details of the week’s business were:—
SOLD
300 Pioneer Sugar 44/6 ... £657
1000 Aust. Factors Vic. 9/6 .... £464
BOUGHT
2000 General Ind. 9/8 £990
200 Harden & Johnston 19/- £194
5000 Ampol Rights lOd. £221
My portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1500 Hanimex 23/5/62 6/9 9/1
1000 Courtaulds 0p.(14/-) 14/1/63 2/1
1000 Petroleum Inv 1/2/63 5/4 3/9
200 Philip Morris 14/2/63 34/6 36/6
400 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3 15/-
600 A. V Jennings 28/2/63 9/10 10/-
1000 Woodside ctg. 14/3/63 4/8 2/8
500 Amagraze 8/4/63 7/6 7/6
1000 ANI 18/4/63 4/1 4/3
1000 Felt. rts. 24/4/63 8/3 8/9
200 W Adams 9/5/63 42/3 47/6
200 Carpet Manu. 23/5/63 23/- 22/6
800 Formfit 30/5/63 10/6 11/6
1000 Carrier 3/6/63 5/6 6/3
1000 ODE 5/6/63 4/2 4/6
1000 Goodwins 10/6/63 3/1 3/6
500 Aust. Motel Ind. 10/6/63 5/4 5/4
100 James Hardie 13/6/63 £5 £5/3/-
2000 Gen. Ind. 17/6/63 9/8 9/9
200 Flarden & Johnston 18/6/63 19/- 19/6
5000 Ampol rights 18/6/63 lOd. lid.


People are talking
about the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick y/ whichever is appropriates
Is this a new subscription? j~j or
A renewal subscription? □
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
months subscription to THE BULLETIN.
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? More
and more people are buying the "new look"
BULLETIN for its features, its overseas and local news,
its columnists like Boadicea, Discus, Ceilarmaster, its
reviews of films, books, music and theatre. If you
want to keep abreast of news and significant events
in Australia and abroad THE BULLETIN is a must. In
addition THE BULLETIN will feature this year a series
of four-page full color features on Australian art and
other subjects. So why not fill in the form at left and
be sure of your copy each week?
The
Bulletin
A magazine of facts and ideas est. 1880
ON SALE WEDNESDAYS —2/.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 751
ACROSS
I—Hughes, out of breath, is a little loco. (7, 5)
9—Joker characters who have no hope of surviving
pioneer drivers. (9)
10— What musician may play Cesario. (5)
11— An expression of fondness which makes them pair.
(7)
13— No fun to be a maid of this full employment.
(3, 4)
14— Spice Club. (4)
15— Let out in time. (4)
17—French knife inquiry as to the
ability of a Kipling poem.
(5)
19— Columbus’s birthplace, but no
age is required from it. (5)
20— O'Neill is the usual and pre-
vailing thing. (4)
21 — Seventeen. (4)
23 — African river. (7)
24 A fabric stiffened two quad-
rupeds. (7)
25 Coward seen by a girl who
could be alone when disturb-
ed. (5)
26 — So Persian, (anagram) (9)
28 —Flora has reason for phew-
ing aromatic plant measures.
(7-5)
DOWN
1— Cosmetic journal wherein “no
smoking” is strongly advised!
(6, 8)
2 Weariness what is to be avoid-
ed in 1-down? (3)
3 One like this drinking place
line on a weather map. (6)
4 Broken leg to exist in the land
of a parish church. (5)
5 Second Queen Elizabeth ap-
pears immediately. (9)
6 English romantic poet pro-
duces nothing on a shoestring.
(8)
7 Urgent ultimatum number
eroded always. (3, 2,5)
8— A knave fed up with rocks?
(4, 2,8)
12—Spectators identify a foot-
baller with the help of this
publication from the dentist’s
heap. (4, 6)
16—Beggar confession from one
who cannot reform. (9)
18—How Holmes regarded Watson
in a vaulted underground
chamber. (8)
22—Urchin of South Carolina is
a sort of beetle. (6)
24 —Big experimental piano play-
ing entertainments initiated by
this Italian boy. (5)
27—Billy drops by; that’s crook!
(3)
Solution to Crossword No. 750


II
■M
■
iv \ P
:
■
.
W. :
£ '
L
i p
m
|ll H| l
-■ ' - ' ' ", '
mm
imm
& i
•**&:-** i
m
:
......
••««»*JSSf* .. • -
;: : ;
■■l
: M
~ r K
Wm-
V ■ ■
n®
■Mi
a;- ■ ■ ' p
ttittl
:
w&?ssgfm
m
Wwattmmmm ~ isbhhHHpspm
mm
i
1j M ill f| SMBM i v|M$P
m : :_ .'
PHEmSS
aJ'•
'■? Sp-KwS
- *{» f ~ , ■
‘ 'Ms
m
: ::m
yrm
Official photograph Australian National Antarctic Research Expedition
V W7B6fc
First car in Antarctica.
Could any car handle Antarctica?
Could it take the terrible battering of
ice like broken glass?
Could it start, and travel, and keep
travelling, in sub-zero temperatures?
In a place like this, could men entrust
their lives to it?
If any car could do it, we felt the
Volkswagen could.
So a VWI2OO was shipped to Mawson
to become the first sedan on the Antarc-
tic continent.
How is it going?
Like the Volkswagen always does.
Ice-hills and crevasses can’t stop it,
any more than bush tracks or day-in,
day-out highway cruising can.
Its unique suspension takes the shock
and shudder out of the ice as it does
with the pot-holes around the corner.
The air-cooled engine can’t freeze in
Antarctica or boil in Bourke.
Because it’s in the rear, the VW has
traction through snow and ice (or on a
slippery city street or in sand or mud)
that front-engine cars can’t equal.
Four-vent heater.
Body work.
Gear change.
Baked enamel finish.
Everything helps the VW lick the
toughest conditions in the world.
Including your VW Agent.
Right now, he’s got some wonderful
news about Volkswagen. Big trade-ins,
easy terms, low deposits. That sort of
news.
And a five-mile test drive too.
Enjoy both.
VWI2OO sedan—£B49 tax paid.


I
aRLYLE
’S
§
g
■j
EXTRAS
20
:><•£: .
B UR^ Y
'
A ?Ni D
.
R!« HT
,
V
-'•
■
■
.: :•
Carlyle
EXTRAS
the distinctive American
blend cigarette with so many extras
EXTRA FLAVOR: Carlyle Extras give you that extra mellow
flavor ot fine costly tobaccos blended to taste so good.
EXTRA FRESHNESS: Carlyle Extras are the genuine American
blend made right here in Australia for unimpaired full freshness
EXTRA SIZE: Carlyle Extras are 18% bigger make regular
American size look small. Enjoy extra smoking pleasure in Carlyle Extras size.
Only Carlyle could . . .
taste so good f- it s blended
$■
with just
a touch
of Turkish
World Copyright
MAN
CIGARETTE COMPANY (OVERSEAS)
PTY. LTD
CE.113.10.62
