

The Bulletin
MARCH 14 ,1964
Housing Finance’s New Look
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
LESLIE BURY.
FEDERAL MINISTER
FOR HOUSING
Australia 2/-, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1
Iw Ajictowliw U»l


SB
■i/
mm
Hi'-' "
Hi
iwiS
i
If r~
Hi
W;
If S
pmmmim
mi
Wmm
_.™o?
joa
S
m
•'
m
mi
u!h>
m
m
8r **
|3«
' 1 '
'
CQ
1
m
*4
I
*v Jr ■■ v w
Ir it
R
.«-*
<D
P
SU&
PU9UKJSUI
P*
iASAAS
O
%
///
THE BULLETIN looks bock on a crowded past,
forward to an exciting future. Every week,
the world is presented to Australia, Australia
to the world, in the pages of THE BULLETIN. Fill
in the coupon below and have THE BULLETIN
posted to you every week.
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (by Surface Mail):
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
Subscription Department, The Bulletin, Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
*N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Malaysian Subscriptions to Marican & Sons (Malaysia) Ltd.,
321 Jalan Tuanku Abdul Rahman, KUALA LUMPUR, and
18 Battery Road, SINGAPORE.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick V whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? | | or a renewal subscription? J j
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for months subscription
to THE BULLETIN.
‘New Zealand readers may have their copies air freighted (£4 4s. N.Z. for
52 issues, £2 12s. for 26 issues) or by surface mail (£3 7s. N.Z. for 52
issues £2 2s. for 26 issues).


PLAIN ENGLISH
After Crush Malaysia
Fails?
VIfHATEVER course the now des-
** perate leadership of Indo-
nesia adopts following the failure of
the Bangkok talks, it is clear that
Indonesian diplomacy stands in
ruins. Politically, the Crush Malay-
sia policy has become a fiasco. In
trying to force a political settle-
ment in advance of a military
agreement, Indonesia reveals the in-
herent weakness of its position, and
it has been tiny Malaysia backed
by British power which, surpris-
ingly, has called the tune. The
Malaysians have played their game
with considerable nerve. Indonesia’s
use of naked force against a neigh-
boring Asian country —one brought
into being with UN approval has
not found support either in neigh-
boring Asian countries or in Africa
where Lee Kuan Yew was able
during his recent tour to enlist the
sympathy of African leaders,
notably that of
Nasser. Indo-
nesia, it is clear,
has few friends
left on the inter-
national scene:
the price that
any country
must pay for un-
relieved cyni-
cism and double
dealing in the
conduct of its
foreign policy.
A particularly
irritating blow
must be the obvious reluctance
of the USSR—heavily embroiled in
the expensive Cuban venture - to
come to the aid of a distant,
unstable country possessing a
huge Peking - oriented Com-
munist Party. On the military
front Indonesia has fared as badly.
The “war of liberation” being con-
ducted against Sarawak and Sabah
has proved a miserable failure.
Indonesian guerrillas who had been
led to expect that their forays across
the border would fan the flames of
revolt have found instead their
actions have had the result of unit-
ing villages and people against
them. Forced into a policy of hit
and run, Indonesian hopes of yet
another cut-price military victory
stand ridiculous before the world.
The despair over bankrupt poli-
cies must be considerable. The
tricks, the pressures and post-
urings which were used with
such skill and success against
an anachronistic Dutch coloni-
alism in New Guinea simply
have not worked against an Asian
state backed by Western military
power. The question can now be
asked, what next? It is clear that
the faded magic of President Soe-
karno’s leadership cannot hide from
the great political groupings of
Indonesia that
Malaysia will
not be crushed.
Every thing
now depends on
what is left to
Indonesian lead-
ership of a sense
of reality, and
responsibility for
the gravity of
Indonesia’s econ-
omic chaos and
crumbling poli-
tical and admin-
istrative struc-
ture can scarcely be exaggerated.
Desperate courses still remain open,
including a nationally suicidal all-
out war against Malaysia even if
they can scarcely be regarded as
realistic by a sick leadership. The
question remains as to whether
Indonesian political leaders, before
all is lost, any longer have the
nerve or will to take up the real
questions of Indonesia’s survival as
a nation.
Page
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK . .
Tanner’s Parliament
«•
BUSINESS AND FINANCE 5©
CROSSWORD 74
EIGHTY YEARS AGO 8
FORUM 33
LETTERS 3©
MAN ON THE LAND 71
OUT AND ABOUT . 22
OVERSEAS 2©
RED PAGE 4©
REVIEWS 43
THIS AUSTRALIA . 6
New Look to Housing Finance .... 13
When Flappers Fluttered Through
Flames 20
The Gifted, Sombre Mr. Benny .. 22
Nina and Frederik: Anything but
Folksy 25
Burma’s “Instant Socialism” 29
South Africa’s Treason Trial 31
Archbishop Mannix the Great
Dead King 33
“The Firm” Goes Hollywood .... 43
Finance: Higher Interest Rates
Before Taxes 50
Choices in Economic Evils 52
Transport Industry Vital to Aus-
tralia 54
Sydney’s Royal Easter Show and
its Critics 71
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone: 27 5971.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666, Ext. 380.
Vol. 86
. No. 4330


National Notebook
... or
Ivor Hele's portrait of the P M.
Mr Calwell calls for his Party's support and his Party responds.
Lobby talk
Sir Garfield Barwick


Tanner's Parliament
King's Hall with all the color and pageantry of a Municipal Town Hall .
and the Prime Minister and the member for MackeUar listen to the Opposition,


THIS AUSTRALIA
CIVIL RIGHTS
Intolerance
A “Boof-Headed” Bill
FROM PETER BLAKE IN DARWIN
PHILLIP ROBERTS
“Beggary”
The weekend after the most sweeping
reforms for aborigines in the Terri-
tory’s history were announced, some 50
natives were rounded up by Alice Springs
police for being drunk ... or drinking.
In itself this was not significant. The
booze has been making heady inroads in
the life of the Centre’s natives in recent
years. What the arrests did highlight
was the jumpy concern of the Alice
Springs white community over the native
drink “problem”. It is a problem which,
for many people anyway, has emerged
menacingly into the open because
of the Social Welfare Bill, introduc-
ed in the Territory’s Legislative Council.
As matters stood at the rising of the
Council last month, the Bill had been
referred to a Select Committee of the
House for study and report before its
next sittings in May. The Committee is
sitting in Alice this week.
Aborigines see the Select Committee as
a delaying move and last week the Presi-
dent of the Northern Territory Council
for Aboriginal Rights, Phillip Roberts,
called for a boycott of the Committee,
describing it as being designed to “keep
us in a state of beggary the Cattlemen’s
Association wants”.
Nowhere is the concern over the re-
form bill more evident than in Alice
Springs. Perhaps this is natural enough,
because Alice Springs, for all its “Aus-
tralian” image and tourist glitter, has
never been a town renowned for racial
tolerance. Natives in the Centre are
“niggers” or “blackfellas”, and half-
castes are “yeller fellers”, observations
which would earn an eyeful of fist in
most Darwin pubs.
It was no coincidence that the move
for the Select Committee was launched
by the peppery Member for Alice,
Colonel Lionel Rose, a man of strong
opinions who is never afraid to voice
them. His argument was that members
had had little time to grasp the implica-
tions of the Bill.
With characteristic blunt language
he described the Social Welfare Bill as
“boof-headed, bull-headed application of
all rights” to natives.
The sarcastically-inclined Crown Law
Officer, Mr Ron Withnall, accused elect-
ed members of duck-shoving the respon-
sibility of making up their own minds.
Just what sort of emasculations the
Committee will suggest is anybody’s
guess, but if it comes out too strongly
against the most contentious sections of
the Bill it will put two of the three ALP
members in the House on a spot; and
they will hold the balance of power when
the Bill comes to a vote. Following pub-
lic statements by the ALP Parliamentary
Leader, Mr Calwell, backing the Bill,
they will be walking the tightrope.
Ready now for the real fight is the
NT Cattle Producers’ Council, the hard
core of opposition to natives being allow-
ed to drink. The council is made up
of the Territory’s three cattlemen’s
organisations . . . the Central Australian
Pastoralists’ Association, the NT Pastoral
Lessees’ Association and the North Aus-
tralian Cattlemen's Association.
Laconic Jim Martin, president of the
North Australian Cattlemen’s Associa-
tion, who has already had a considerable
amount to say on the drink issue, was
surprisingly mild about the proposal to
abolish the “ward” system. This was a
turn-up, because it is quite likely that all
cattlemen are going to have to pay their
native stockmen award wages if the Social
Welfare Bill goes through.
It is clear at this stage that the
strongest opposition to the Social Wel-
fare Bill will come from cattlemen, small
towns and settlements with one or no
policemen, and Alice Springs. Darwin,
which finds it pretty hard to get excited
about anything except beer and football,
seems to have taken it in its stride. Most
full-bloods who want to drink in Darwin
don’t have any trouble getting one openly
in the pubs. Surprisingly enough if there
is any calamity howling at all on this
issue, it comes from Darwin’s large part-
colored population. There are strange
undercurrents in the relationship between
the half-coloreds and the full-bloods.
Only a few weeks ago, Darwin’s free
and easy Workers’ Club, which has a
majority of part-colored members and a
number of full-bloods (non-wards) on its
books, erupted in one of the nastiest
brawls seen in the town for many years.
A group of natives from Groote
Eylandt, one of the way-out missions,
swept through the club like a hurricane,
wielding sticks, chairs and rocks, and
attacking anyone who wasn’t black. One
white journalist, whom they called “you
white bastard,” fled.
The significant thing about the brawl
was that it was not drink-inflamed. Not
one of the natives had had as much as
a glass. It all started over a misunder-
standing outside the club between two
part-colored club members and two
natives.
BUSINESS
Heine’s Struggle for Survival
Life and death
FROM A CORRESPONDENT
TK>lice seizure of documents from some
members of the Australian and New
Zealand Conference last week, follow-
ing its persistent efforts to drive the
Meyer Heine Line off the Conference’s
routes to the Far East was the first sign
of official recognition of the Line’s life
and death struggle with international
giants whose monopoly grip on the Far
Eastern trade it has fearlessly challenged
over the last two years.
It all started in 1962 when Mr Walter
P. Heine’s Australian company (it em-
ploys about 100 in its Melbourne office)
dared to carry Japanese steel in its
chartered vessels to New Zealand at well
under Conference freight rates. This
threatened Australian exports of steel to
New Zealand but, oblivious to this effect
and bitter against Heine, the Conference
proceeded to under-cut even Heine's low
rates saying it was up to its Japanese
members to restore the rates.


This un-Australian attitude raised
many eyebrows at the time (November,
1962) but, squeezed by the unprofitable
Conference line rates, Heine’s got out of
that trade. However, the shipping mono-
poly refuses to forget. The Conference
has been cracking at the Heine nut along
the Eastern routes ever since.
Mr Heine’s only comment on these
developments last week was to say he
was watching the situation closely. Hav-
ing relinquished his South American
trade partnership with the Swedish firm
which has now handed over to a Japanese
line to continue Australia’s only direct
shipping link to the West Coast of South
America and the Caribbean, it would be
a heavy blow both to his company and
to Australian shipping if Heine had to
foresake the Eastern routes as well.
NSW
King Kong’s Revenge
The urban swing against Labor
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
REX CONNORS
On the outer
17' ing Kong must have loved the
situation. There he was, R. F. X.
Connor, MHR, a new boy at Canberra
and small-time in the way that new
members are there. But in NSW his
going had led to a situation where a
government was threatened. Rex Con-
nor would like that, because he had a
profound contempt for the Cabinet, the
“ins” of the NSW State Government
who kept him on the outer for so long.
Certainly the Cabinet in NSW had
been glad to see him go on to Canberra.
Connor, even allowing for shambling
bulk, which gave him his nick-name,
could be as sharp and ruthless in verbal
attack on his enemies as his other nick-
name, the “Strangler”, would indicate.
Now by his resignation he had open-
ed the way for a by-election which hurt
his old enemies in Cabinet far more
than all his attacks in and out of Caucus.
The Wollongong area seats are regarded
as the bluest of blue-ribbon Labor seats
and Connor’s electorate, Wollongong-
Kembla, was the very heart of the Steel
City. His majority at the last election had
been 3538. When all the votes were
counted last week his Labor successor,
D. Porter, was in, but with a 200
majority.
What this meant, translated into
mathematical figures and out again, was
certain defeat for the NSW Labor Gov-
ernment, unless there was an improve-
ment before next year’s election. The
opposition Liberal and Country Parties
need only take eight seats to form a
government and a swing on the scale of
Wollongong-Kembla would give them be-
tween 14 and 17 seats.
The question was why? Connor might
have had some personal following, but
it is not likely to have been anywhere
near 3300 votes. There has been inter-
mittent industrial strife over the last
year, with a bus strike late last year
causing a lot of ill-feeling. (Unions were
kept out of the campaign except for a
TV appearance from Laurie Short of the
Ironworkers’.) Left and Right-wing fac-
tion fights in the ALP, particularly in
the Reidtown branch of which the Labor
candidate was secretary, have got a lot
of publicity. Likewise the Left-wing-
dominated Trades and Labor Council has
been often in the news. But all these fac-
tors have always been part of Steel Town
life. The by-election figures showed a
consistent swing of between 7.5 and 8
per cent right through every subdivision.
The conclusion was inescapable that the
Wollongong-Kembla by-election was the
first blow to the NSW Government from
that urban swing that crippled Federal
Labor in November.
But despite that, it was a very local
factor which probably helped to save
Labor from a total debacle. The Liberal
candidate, Jack Hough, an accountant,
is not a pub and club man and, as some
Liberals speculated afterwards, in social-
ly clannish Wollongong a more enter-
prising candidate might have picked up
those extra hundred votes, as well as
the general swing.
While the figures must have sent a
shudder of fear through a lot of Labor
members the next development in State
politics was obviously not directly relat-
ed to Wollongong - Kembla. Ernest
Wetherell, the 71-year-old Education
Minister, announced his intention to
retire.
Mr Wetherell, a man of decided in-
dependence and a sly sense of humor,
which belies his nick-name “Dead Ern-
est”, stressed that his decision did not
have reference to anyone else. But ha
must have known that his resignation
pointed the finger at the Premier,
Mr Heffron, who is two years older and
there were plenty of people last week
prepared to draw the obvious inference
that what was sauce for Mr Wetherell
should also be sauce, even if sour, for
Mr Heffron. The going of Mr Wetherell
also meant a ballot for a Cabinet vacancy
and a decision for Mr Heffron on who
should replace him as Education Mini-
ster. At his Press conference the Pre-
mier spoke noble words on how there
was no reason why a Catholic should
not fill the post, but there are sound
political reasons why it should stay with
a non-Catholic while State Aid is a
live issue. This makes Keith Compton
now Minister for Lands, who holds the
natural Country Party seat of Lismore
(in the face of, what must become at
the next election, very heavy odds) the
logical choice. Given a good patronage
ministry like Education his chances
would be strengthened.
What the by-election vote was already
touching off, was a long hard look at
the worth of some sitting Labor mem-
bers. As a general rule a sitting Labor
member is safe from competition at a
pre-selection ballot but in the present
state of nervousness in the party even
some long-established members might
find themselves in for shocks.
FLUORIDATION
Kelberg's Stand
Safe’s teeth
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
Supreme Court began last week
A hearing an action launched by a
Sale ratepayer against the Council’s de-
cision to fluoridate the City’s water
supply. Postal worker Charles Albert
Kelberg has asked the Court to declare
the fluoridation by-law passed by the
Sale (pop. 700) Council invalid and to
rule that fluoridation is beyond the
Council's powers. Bacchus Marsh (pop.
3000) is the only other Victorian town
which has so far fluoridated its water
supply.
So far both sides have relied heavily
on expert witnesses. For Kelberg, Mr
P. A. Liddell called Dr Keith Cairn-
cross, Senior Lecturer in Pharmacology
at Melbourne University. Dr Cairncross,
who said he had an open mind on the
fluoridation issue told the court he had
studied the effects of fluorine on the
human body during the war in Britain.
Over the years, the chemical could
have a cumulative effect. In areas where


water had a naturally high fluorine con-
tent cases of rheumatism, mottled teeth
and forms of paralysis were greater. But
symptoms might take up to 14 years to
develop, he said.
Dr Michael Kelly, a well-known Mel-
bourn rheumatism specialist, told the
court that a condition known as fluorisis
could be induced by drinking water
with a fairly high fluorine content up
to 10 parts in a million. In its chronic
form this could cause death by kidney
disease, Dr Kelly said, but he said he
knew of no Australian cases.
Sale Council called a pathologist,
Professor Edgar Samuel King of Mel-
bourne University, who compared fluor-
ide to oxygen and vitamin D which
were essential to life, but which could
cause harm taken in too large quantities.
Interstate witness Dr John Michael
Flynn, Chief Medical Officer of Syd-
ney’s Metropolitan Water Board, gave
the court a practical demonstration of
his belief that fluoridation would not
produce toxic effects on Sale’s water.
He took a glass of water and added to
it enough fluoride to produce a concen-
tration of 50 parts in a million, stirred
the glass and drank it.
In less technical exchanges, Mr Lid-
dell explained that he was not saying
that fluoride had been proved danger-
ous. “We say that its medical effect is
uncertain”. The by-law was being chal-
lenged as repugnant to Victorian law,
repugnant to the Local Government Act,
uncertain and unreasonable.
THE ECONOMY
Cutting up the Cake
The big gamble?
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
J. KERR, QC
Good sense
\ fter Mr W. McMahon’s reported
statement that the Government
would not decide its attitude towards the
basic wage hearing until both the unions
and the employers had said their pieces,
it was surprising that its counsel, Mr J.
Kerr, QC, got in between them. Last
week before the employers’ case was put
he spent a full day delivering a closely
considered economic argument warning
the Commission of the possible inflation-
ary consequences of topping up effective
demand with a big wages rise. This is
surely the most critical consideration in
the case, despite it being entirely neglect-
ed by Mr R. J. Hawke in his arguments
for the unions, which were mainly a
recital of the cheering details of what
everybody knows to be a highly satis-
factory economic condition.
However, without wanting to buy into
the old argument about what share of
Gross National Product should go in
wages, it seems to me that on one of
these details, the rise in exports of manu-
factures, Mr Hawke was guilty, like the
“Australian Financial Review” a few
days before him, of overstating the posi-
tion. The employers have every right
to point out in their submissions this
week that although the rise in manu-
factured exports has been satisfactory, it
is not all that impressive considering the
stability of costs here over the last few
years when costs of competitors have
mostly been rising. This cost advantage
could easily be dissipated by another
sharp increase in the basic wage because
already labor shortages are levering up
wage earnings throughout industry. To
hold up Australia as an up-and-coming
exporter of manufactured goods is a little
premature at this stage.
Be this as it may, Mr Kerr made it
clear enough that the Government ex-
pects some increase to be made in the
basic wage and that it must be afraid
Hawke’s rosy picture of the enonomy’s
enhanced capacity to pay will be ac-
cepted at its face value by the Commis-
sion. Much of Mr Kerr’s argument
seemed to be aimed at putting the im-
provement in the capacity to pay in its
correct perspective.
He emphasised that the capacity to
pay should not be regarded as something
that could be determined precisely, nor
should productivity be given a decisive
weight in the wage determination. Mr
Kerr made eminently good sense because
(apart from the process of inflating
spending power in the system which, run-
ning headlong into labor shortages likely
to inhibit the growth of production,
could not absorb more substantial in-
creases in effective demand in conditions
of price stability) it should not be assum-
ed that every increase in productivity
must be reflected in rising wages.
Mr Kerr developed this argument im-
pressively. He suggested that it would
be something of a gamble to write the
present burst of economic affluence into
a big new permanent layer in the wages
structure and that it might be better to
enjoy it in the form of increased leisure
SECULAR SCHOOLS
ffiJ&ulletCn
80 Years Ago: March 15, 1884
The “loyal” Orangemen of Jam-
beroo, in solemn conclave as-
sembled, have unanimously resolved
that they are “of opinion that the
question of Scriptural instruction in
Public Schools will never be placed
on a satisfactory footing until the
Bible itself is read daily in every
Public School in the colony sub-
ject, of course, to the proviso that
no child shall be compelled to join
in Bible lessons if its parents
object.” If the view of these Orange
Jamberoos be accepted by the Minis-
ter of Public Instruction, how will
he be able to resist consistently the
equally legitimate and reasonable
contention that Tom Paine’s “Age of
Reason”, or Mrs Besant’s “My Path
to Atheism”, be read daily in every
Public School in the colony, sub-
ject, of course, to the proviso that
no child shall be compelled to join
in the Freethought lessons if its par-
ents object. If the Orange Jamberoos
want Orange Jamberooism taught, let
them at their own cost provide teach-
ers and buildings for the said pro-
selytising process. The Roman Catho-
lics act consistently in this matter.
They stigmatise the Public School sys-
tem as godless, and go to work as if
they believed it was so. Let the
Orange Jamberoos be only equally
honest. But they must keep their
hands off the non-sectarian organisa-
tion of the Public School system.
A contemporary appears a trifle
startled because it is said that
Judge Hoover, who once was Chief
Justice of Arizona, is now chief
waiter in a restaurant in Southern
California; and Judge Satterthwaite,
also from Arizona, is now doing
tinker’s jobs for a living. We know
some Judges who have been tinkers
all their lifetime, but we doubt if any
of them are smart enough to act as
cafe waiters.


0»i
'4
M
m
m
. ■ :
m
Reverse
season
angle
Qantas helps Australian knitwear manufacturer run
up winter sales in the summer
John Crundall Knitting Mills flies its brilliant range of fashionable knitwear to America during our
summer, thus capitalising on the winter season over there. So successful has been this reverse season
angle, that the company has set up outlets in 11 key American States in little over a year. Should
any of these stores require style changes to suit their particular requirements, John Crundall is able
to produce the new designs and have them back in the States by Qantas in three or four days. “We
wouldn’t be in exports without Qantas Air Cargo,” the company admits frankly. And adds, “By
chasing the American winter, we even-out factory production the year around.” For a well-knit
distribution plan to fit your individual export problems, why not talk things over with Qantas —the
international jet airline that knows Australia’s business best.
mm AIR CARGO
43 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in association with Air India, 8.0.A.C., S.A.A. and TEAL,
QAC. 140.107.34


and social services, and even through
reductions in prices. But to my mind
he could have gone even further and
said that instead of being dissipated in
higher consumption a great deal more
of the increase in Gross National Pro-
duct should be devoted to defence and
related activities such as investment, im-
migration and foreign aid.
Reasonably enough, I suppose, Mr
Kerr didn’t tell the Commission what
increase in the basic wage the Govern-
ment thought the economy could sustain
at the moment in the light of these
considerations, but he did come down
firmly in opposition to quarterly cost-of-
living adjustments which the unions once
again are trying to have resumed.
Quite apart from the general principles
involved, the Government’s opposition
to cost-of-living adjustments is under-
standable considering the possibilities of
price inflation later this year and the
havoc these caused in the early 19505.
Nonetheless Mr Hawke was on firm
statistical ground in showing that £1 of
the £2 12s. increase being sought in the
basic wage consisted of leeway which
has to be made up in the wage before
it can fully represent the equivalent real
wage when the quarterly adjustments
were abandoned in 1953, and it will
be up to the employers in their submis-
sions this week (or perhaps in their own
case next week) to show the Commission
to what extent their total wage concept
takes care of rises in the cost of living.
The Commonwealth is said to be against
this total wage idea and so appears to
have nothing to suggest as an alternative
to cost-of-living adjustments except that
all changes in the basic wage should
fundamentally be made according to
changes in the capacity to pay.
On the other,hand by putting forward
several suggestions last week on the gen-
eral methods of wage-fixing, Counsel for
the Government seemed to be jumping
the gun because its ideas would have
been aired more appropriately in the
total wage case hearing which is to
follow the basic wage case.
The Government clearly wants to have
longer intervals between basic wage cases
without ruling out special hearings when
warranted by circumstances. It also
thinks the present annual reviews need
not necessarily take place and sometimes
could be avoided.
Furthermore the Government sug-
gested the Commission make stronger
efforts to get more expert witnesses at
its basic wage inquiries by accepting
written submissions “of the intellectual
kind” on which no cross-examination
would be allowed. “It is a matter of
knowledge.” Mr Kerr said, “that the
present litigious processes repelled expert
witnesses.”
HISTORY
When the Flag Went Up
“on ye East side of ye rivulet ”
BY M. H. ELLIS IN SYDNEY
HERRON C. J.
Loftus Street
Committee appointed by the Syd-
ney City Council, consisting of the
Lord Mayor as Chairman, the Chief
Justice of NSW (Mr Justice Leslie Her-
ron), the NSW State Surveyor-General
and Director of Maps, Mr Garth, archi-
tect and director of Parks and Gardens
and Mr J. W. Forsyth, historical assessor,
has made its finding on the site on which
Governor Phillip took possession of the
shores of Sydney Cove and raised the
British flag on them on January 26,
1788.
The Royal Australian Historical
Society had advised the Council to erect
a plaque to mark the site of the ceremony
in George Street North opposite the gate-
way to the Sydney Cove Overseas Ter-
minal, its General Secretary, Mr Chis-
holm stating that having said that the
place where the ceremony of raising the
flag took place “is generally accepted to
have been midway on the western shore
of the Cove, on the present site of Syd-
ney Cove Terminal.
I challenged this siting on behalf of
the Historical Committee of the Pioneers’
Club.
The Royal Historical Society did not
present any evidence or justification of
its recommendation.
The evidence in favor of the site east
of the Tank Stream is all contemporary
or nearly contemporary with the event.
It is supported by some strong family
and other tradition. That which favors
the RAHS is not.
Phillip's Voyage, compiled and pub-
lished in November, 1789, describes on
page 58 the ceremony as taking place
“round the flagstaff”. On page 64: “At
the head of the Cove, therefore, the
Governor had fixed his seat of Govern-
ment.”
David Collins, Judge Advocate and
Secretary to the Governor, who kept the
administrative diary, was present and re-
cords (p. 6) in his narrative the encamp-
ing of the officer's guard and the con-
victs: “The spot chosen for this purpose
was at the head of the cove, near the
run of fresh water, which stole silently
through a very thick wood.”
On p. 6 he states that in the evening
“the whole of the party that came round
in the Supply assembled at the point
where they had first landed in the morn-
ing, and on which a flagstaff had been
purposely erected and a Union Jack dis-
played”, when the taking possession
ceremony took place. (Note the phrase
“on which”.)
Next comes the account of Lieutenant
Philip Gidley King, the Governor's aide-
de-camp, stating that “the place on
which ye settlement is to be made is at
ye head of ye cove . . . The marines and
convicts are to be camped on the western
side, and ye Governor and staff, with his
guard and a small part of the convicts on
ye East side of ye rivulet.”
Tench says the settlement was fixed
at the head of the Cove ... on the east-
ern side the Governor fixed his place of
residence.
The one question is: “What is the head
of the Cove?” The Royal Historical
Society has absurdly marked this at
Bridge Street where the Tank Stream was
narrow enough to bridge in a few days
after the fleet arrived —far from its
selected site.
The Surveyor-General supports my
view that it was the broad southern head
of the Cove fronted by a beach which
ran from near the First and Last Hotel to
a point near Arbitration Street, and on
the East of the Tank Stream.
To settle that question we need to turn
to surveys and maps.
On the morning of January 29 (lands-
men's time), 1788, Captain Hunter and
Lieutenant Bradley, first lieutenant of the
Sirius, the former one of the most ex-
perienced naval surveyors in the world,
began the survey of Sydney Harbor.
Bradley’s original journal exists in the
Mitchell Library and on February 6, he
records the completion of the preliminary
survey and notes, details of an astronom-
ical fix for the flagstaff, suggesting that,
as he did later at Norfolk Island, he had
used it as a datum point for the survey.


Your
111 / 7)4 cjf anywhere will be made more effective by
ISWOI/UZOO UIOIV reading EIU QUARTERLY REVIEWS of
the countries you are visiting. Fifty-eight
Reviews of economic and business conditions in more than
120 countries are published each quarter.
The Reviews are concise and meant for busy people. Available on annual
subscription or singly. Leaflet “INTERNATIONAL SERVICES FOR BUSINESS”
from:
The Economist Intelligence Unit (A list.) Pty. Ltd.
52 Queen Street, Melbourne. C.l.
In his original journal (p. 76) is a map
showing Sydney as it was on March 1,
1788, five weeks after the landing. The
flagstaff with the flag flying is shown
on a high point above the beach, which
was afterwards in use for many years as
a chief landing beach, somewhat east of
the site now occupied by Goldsbrough
Mort’s building.
It is unlikely that the staff would have
been moved after the official surveyors
had taken its latitude and longitude
between January 29 and February 6
especially with French ships in Botany
Bay. And it is notable that during the
first year all loyal ceremonies were held
at “the flag staff” until November 1788
when it was moved a few feet into a
redoubt on the site of the southern end
of the site of Goldsbrough Mort offices.
Moreover, whenever it was moved the
fact was always carefully recorded by
Collins. So that importance was attached
to its position.
Now Bradley’s map shows not only the
flagstaff—but the sites of the Governor’s
first house directly in its rear, that of the
Guard Room adjacent to it, and the orig-
inal positions in which all the ships of the
First Fleet were anchored on the morning
of January 27. And from the logs of
some of these it is clear that all descrip-
tions of “head of the Cove”, and the
descriptions of the location of the cere-
mony of flag-raising must apply to the
area south of the beach at the eastern
side of the Tank Stream impinging on
Macquarie Place.
The Scarborough carried tools and
iron for the smithy which was placed
close to the shore just south of modern
Alfred Street. The ship is shown in Brad-
ley’s chart anchored as close as she could
get to the smithy—about where the
north ends of the Harbor ferry wharves
are today, east of the Tank Steam. Her
log records that she had been “warped
up to the head of the Cove”.
There is a mass of other matter in
pictures, charts and maps, etc., in which
the facts about the position of the land-
ing are supported by points of custom
and law and usage, as well as maps. In
my reckoning I placed high water mark
about level with the bas-relief on the
western side of the Customs House in
Loftus Street, but added that it would
need an experienced surveyor to deduce
the position exactly. I placed the position
of the flag raising near the northern
base of Macquarie Place in Loftus Street
near the western end of the lane behind
the Customs House.
The Surveyor-General, Mr Elphin-
stone, settled it more exactly as being in
Loftus Street about 50 feet south of the
front line of the Customs House a few
yards from the position I selected.
RELIGION
Anglo-Catholics
The leaven in the Sydney lump
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
T'he new Primate-inspired atmosphere
-*■ of sweetness and light pervading the
usually warring factions of the
Anglican Diocese of Sydney will have
a real test within the next few weeks.
The people of Christ Church St Lau-
rence, George Street right in the
heart of Sydney are about to ap-
point a new rector to succeed the dis-
tinguished Anglo-Catholic priest, the
Rev. Father John Hope, who retires at
Easter after 38 years as incumbent.
Until the late Archbishop of Sydney,
Dr Howard Mowll, it was virtually im-
possible for any High Churchman to
get permission to work in the predomi-
nantly Low Church Sydney Diocese,
and even middle-of-the-road “liberals”
had difficulty in getting a licence to
serve in Sydney. For the liberals, there
were many unhappy , results of Dr
Mowll’s stubbornness among them the
complete inability of St James’ Church,
King St, to get the rector they wanted
to succeed Canon E. J. Davidson (later
Bishop Davidson, who died soon after
his elevation to the episcopacy in Gipps-
land, Victoria); and the compromise ap-
pointment of the Rev. Clive Goodwin
(now Archdeacon Goodwin) as rector
of the fashionable and previously
semi-High Church parish of St
Mark's, Darling Point.
But things have certainly been liber-
alised under the more enlightened ap-
proach of Archbishop H. R. Gough. For
example, Dr Gough, who came from a
country where High and Low Churchmen
could live happily and tolerantly side
by side in the same diocese, allowed
St James’, King Street, to bring a priest
from Melbourne in 1962, and the Rev.
Frank Cuttriss is now firmly estab-
lished there. So is the Rev. Father Peter
Bennie, a dedicated Anglo-Catholic, who
succeeded Canon (now Bishop) Arnott
at St. Paul’s College, Sydney University.
Dr Gough was also happy to permit
the appointment of, and the granting of a
licence to, the Rev. Dr John Munro as
Rector of St John’s Church, Dee Why,
when Dr Munro got fed up with the
ABC, where he had been Federal Super-
visor of Religion. Dr Munro is far from
Evangelical.
In this new and more tolerant atmos-
phere, Father Hope is now willing to
retire to write his autobiography and
do some travelling in Asia, while several
men whose Anglo-Catholic churchman-
ship is acceptable to Christ Church are
being considered to succeed the Grand
Old Man of the Anglican Church in Syd-
ney.
CENSORSHIP
Wizards of Oz
Not in February
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
T>ecently 140 copies of the February
-“-* 1 issue of the Sydney satirical monthly
“Oz” were “forfeited” to police by a
King's Cross newsagent. The newsagent
failed to appear in Central Court on
summons to show cause why they should
not be destroyed. Detective-Sergeant
Green, who had seized the copies from
his shop, said the February “Oz” had
“unduly emphasised matters of sex in
many of the articles.”
Although the editors of “Oz”, Richard
Neville and Richard Walsh, have since
been interviewed by Green, no official
action has been taken against them. The
editors deny sex is unduly emphasised,
and describe one article to which the
police objected—“a hand-written article
on page seven” as a savage, satirical
blast at louts who frequent Sydney’s
Northern beaches, emphasising their
drunkenness and brutality.
The confiscated issues were some that
had been returned from Melbourne where
the Vice Squad had warned newsagents
against selling that issue in Victoria.
Although the new March issue of “Oz”
has been passed by Melbourne authori-
ties, the Sydney association of news-
agents (“Ancol”) has warned members
to scrutinise future issues before selling
any.


t
11
K-v. \
li
. I
"He-
m m.
mm
;w
r
Of
/leas' cvtnul elegance' awaifa/ you/ aft
AUSTRALIA’S NEWEST FINEST HOTEL
Fully air-conditioned rooms and suites . . .
spacious restaurants, lounges, cocktail bars . ..
arcades of over 200 shops . . . Australia’s
largest hotel underground car park, for 450
cars, plus Menzies 24-hour room service.
Truly, Menzies Sydney is a new world of
sophistication and comfort.
FOR INSTANT TELETYPE RESER-
VATIONS just ring the FEDERAL
HOTEL nearest you:
Brisbane: Lennons, 32 0131; Toowoomba:
Lennons, 2 2433. Melbourne: Menzies,
601581; Savoy Plaza, 62 4141; Hotel Federal,
62 3721. Sydney: Hampton Court, 31 7081;
New Menzies, 2 0232. Hobart: Wrest Point
Riviera, 5 1021. Or book through any travel
agent.
MENZIES SYDNEY
SYDNEY
m
Comfort beckons you in rooms or
suites tastefully furnished , supremely
comfortable. Dial your own individ-
ually-controlled temperature... dial
piped music or news.
Newest addition to
FEDERAL
HO LE IS
Across the Nation
14 Carrington Street. Cable Address: Menzotel, Sydney. Telex No. 20-443
5393


New Look to Housing Finance
But no dramatic overnight changes ...
By RICHARD HALL
Australia’s population lives in about
2,500,000 houses and 250,000 flats.
Despite the verbal drum-beating
over the last decade for high density
inner-city development, the newly
married Australian couples still want a
home of their own with a plot of land
around it. It is this drive which keeps
the biggest industry in Australia going,
that pours hundreds of millions of
pounds through the building industry and
its auxiliaries each year.
In the immediate post-war years
shortages and rackets were the major
problems confronting the would-be home
purchaser. But today the central problem
is finance. The years preceding the credit
squeeze saw much private finance which
might have gone into housing diverted
into risky speculative ventures. Then the
squeeze itself brought cuts in lending for
homes. The last year has seen some easing
in the money situation.
But. the boom in building has, of
course, brought a boom in costs, parti-
cularly in land costs. Sydney has been
the worst affected city, with blocks often
running to as much as £lOOO more than
comparable Melbourne land. In the last
three years the average cost of low-price
land around Sydney has gone up by
30.5 per cent while the rise in housing
costs has only been 11 per cent (less for
brick veneer and weatherboard). In 1960,
the land for a low-cost house, i.e., about
£3500-£4OOO, represented 25.9 per cent.
It is this situation which has led to what
is called the “deposit-gap” with its
accompanying rash of second mortgages,
with high interest rates, seven and eight
per cent flat being common.
It was in this climate that the Govern-
ment went into the last election. Out of
the talks to determine policy came two
firm planks to help the newly married
and cut the deposit gap. There was to
be a straightforward £1 for £3 grant
for suitable married couples who proved
that they had been saving towards a
home for a set period in an approved
institution. This was to provide a
maximum of £250.
But, most importantly, the Prime
Minister’s Policy Speech contained a
promise to establish a National Housing
Insurance Scheme. As Sir Robert ex-
plained the following day, this was “to
make a genuine attack on high interest
rates on second mortgages.”
The Federal Government's proposal
was obviously inspired by the United
States Federal Housing Authority (FHA)
which had been advocated by many
diverse groups and individuals as a
solution for Australian conditions.
When the smoke had cleared after the
Government's election victory, Leslie
Ernest Bury was back in Cabinet with
the new portfolio of Minister for Hous-
ing and the task of implementing the
Government's promises.
There are sound reasons for saying
that Leslie Bury, who represents the
blue-ribbon Sydney Eastern Suburbs seat
of Wentworth,'' was probably the best
man who could have been chosen for
the job. 1
Mr Bury has been in Parliament since
1956 when he gained pre-selection for
his seat-for-life after a hot contest only
then to be faced by three ambitious in-
dependent Liberals in the by-election.
From 1961 to 1962 he was Minister for
Air and Minister assisting the Treasurer.
But in 1962 he was unpolitical enough to
suggest that Australia should be able to
survive economically without a great
deal of harm from Britain's entry into
the Common Market. After a flurry of
talks and protests from Mr McEwen he
was out of the Cabinet.
He is a shy, courteous man lacking in
the suavities of political life who gained
his reputation as a top civil servant
in the higher level of the External Affairs
Department, the Treasury and then the
International Monetary Fund after the
war.
Born in England at Bournemouth 51
years ago, the son of an Anglican clergy-
man (he has hardly a trace of an English
accent), Mr Bury came to Australia after
having lined up a job with the Bank of
NSW, direct from Queens’ College, Cam-
bridge. There he had been a secretary of
the University Conservative Associa-
tion. He took a good seconds in Law,
but also studied economics under
Keynes, whose revolution was well under
way. Today he recalls that the older
pre-Keynesian economists of Cambridge
were not the committed men their coun-
terparts are in the academic world today.
He worked for the Bank of NSW in
Sydney, Melbourne, Fiji and New Zea-
land before leaving them in 1945 when


• A*
1) ■
tH i- f L*r rt
e
XcT
-48-*
riu iHM H »?
£5
Yt
HOW FAR DO
HAVE TO MAKE A POUND STRETCH ?
Big income earners and small income
earners alike plan for their families’
future security. The more a single £1
means to you the more carefully you
must plan to be sure you and your
family are getting maximum benefit for
the money you spend.
How much would your family need to
live the way you want them to live?
How can such an income be provided
for them?
An A.M.P. FAMILY SECURITY
CHECK-UP will provide the answer
to these vitally important questions.
A
FOUR POINTS 'AM
FAMILY
Your A.M.P. man knows, from training and
experience, how to help you—
0 Check the facts related to your present family and
financial position.
0 Check the extent of your needs what would be
required if your family had to live without you
what you will require on retirement or to take
advantage of long service leave.
e Check to find if the provisions you have made are
adequate.
Q If they are not, your A.M.P. man will show you a
family security plan tailor-made to your precise
needs and circumstances.
An A.M.P. Family Security Check-Up costs you nothing but a
little of your time—involves you in no obligation except to those
you love. AH you have to do is to call in your A.M.P. man or
call the nearest A.M.P. Office.
AUSTRALIA'S
No. 1
LIFE OFFICE
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE
Offices in cities and towns throughout Australia, New Zealand and in the United Kingdom.
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by assets approaching £700,000,000, which the Society seeks to
invest to the greatest benefit to members.
M 123 B


he took over a post in charge of Eco-
nomic Advice in External Affairs. In
1948 he went to the Treasury, from there
in 1951 to the International Monetary
Fund as an alternate executive director
and then ultimately as one of the 14 full-
time executive directors of the Fund.
In the House Mr Bury has not been
one of the violent partisans. Indeed he
gives the impression that he scorns trivial
politicking. Once he spoke of “the rou-
tine guff of popularly-elected persons,
commonly known by a better term.” His
speeches have always shown him to be
a cautious economist and a firm op-
ponent of inflation. At times his language
can become fierce though, as when he
told a Constitutional Association Lun-
cheon in Sydney early last year that
recent politics had been marked by
“largely irrelevant vituperation between
the Leader of the Opposition and the
Government” and then went on to warn
that Australia “cannot afford to become
a nation of Micawbers waiting for some-
thing to turn up”.
In the interim between his two Cabinet
roles Mr Bury was a director with Lend
Lease Corporation Ltd and with Legal
and General Assurance Society Ltd.
Thus ; a lifetime of experience in bank-
ing, public service finance, together with
some late contact with insurance and
large-scale building are the qualifications
which combine to make him uniquely
suitable among Cabinet members for his
new portfolio.
Mortgage Bill Delays
"Out if in the political world Mr Bury
has proved himself to sometimes
lack diplomacy, in his new portfolio he is
treading carefully. In the face of criti-
cism from the NSW Minister for Hous-
ing, Mr Landa, who is something of a
gadfly to the Commonwealth on housing
policy, Mr Bury refused to be drawn.
Mr Landa had pointed to the failure of
Victorian and NSW State guarantees
which had been offered for up to 95
per cent on loans of £3500. To this
Mr Bury replied: “Banks and other in-
stitutions have big problems to meet. If
they have not co-operated in various
State schemes as in the past it has been
because some of these schemes have been
promulgated without sufficient considera-
tion”. What the last few weeks have
seen is a series of rounds of talks be-
tween Mr Bury and authorities involved
with home financing and these talks
will go on.
The £250 bonus bill has been given
priority and full details have already been
announced of conditions. The Govern-
ment has contracted that it will go
through during the current sitting at
Canberra, but the mortgage legislation
will have to wait until later in the year.
Not only must the discussions go on
and the complicated job of drafting the
bill be carried out but the new Depart-
ment needs staff. The problems of the
department in gaining the release of staff
and arranging the necessary public
service formalities have been formidable.
The delay then is unavoidable but the
question arises of what form the bill can
take and what changes it will lead to in
the Australian building industry.
There will be no dramatic overnight
changes. Mr Bury says bluntly “I don’t
believe in big, lurching changes.” The
Minister also warns against the drawing
of close parallels with the United States
FHA. There, as he stresses, the situation
is very different. In the United States
there are a multiplicity of small local
banks and lending institutions, of the
kind unknown in Australia, and there
is a vast surplus of money for invest-
ment.
However, in the United States now
more than two-thirds of the personal
savings of the population are in mutual
savings and lending institutions financing
housing in the same manner as the Per-
manent Building Societies in Australia.
What this means is cheap money and
long, 35-year, terms on deposits of five
per cent.
The FHA itself has never engaged in
money lending and the proposed Aus-
tralian scheme will not do so, unless
there were to be some radical policy
change by Federal Cabinet in the next
six months. What the FHA has done on
loans it guarantees is to make a one-half
per cent interest charge and it seems
most likely that this will be done in
Australia. Mr Bury says that there has
been no clear decision on this yet, but
in soundings the Government has can-
vassed this possibility strongly.
Although it has not yet been seriously
considered the Canadian Central Mort-
gage and Housing Corporation could
provide interesting lessons for the
Government if it found that it was not
achieving its aims through the guarantee
scheme because it loans as well as guar-
antees.
How Finance Works Now
"Out the questions being asked not only
by would-be home owners but also
by the industry itself is just what effect
the coming Government legislation will
have on the home finance situation and
this question is best answered by looking
at the present finance institutions.
The banks, both private and Govern-
ment, provide close on one-third of the
total housing finance provided directly by
all lending institutions. When indirect
finance is added their percentage rises
to about 40. But the private banks in
particular nourish a feeling that they
are often the scapegoats for the housing
shortage. One authority said with some
anger on the subject: “There’s a lot of
crap talked about housing finance”.
Total bank loans for home-ownership
total about £622 million at present and,
in addition, there are undrawn savings
bank loans of about £47 million. This
is over one-third of the total bank lend-
ing for all purposes.
The Research Director of the Austra-
lian Bankers’ Association, Mr Cameron,
on the future of housing finance says “the
Government and the people of Australia
have a ready-made answer, the banks.
These institutions have the experience
and the welfare of the country, through
wider economic issues, at heart. We’re
developing as fast as we're allowed to
develop and anyone who says we’re not
doesn’t understand the problem. Further,
we believe our percentage rate is a fair
and adequate one, consistent with the
economy and the building industry
generally.
The prime instruments used by the
banks for lending for housing are the
savings banks. They have £447 million
currently outstanding, but in addition
there are another £47 million in approv-
ed but undrawn loans.
A rapid build-up of housing loans ap-
provals by savings banks had been under-
way over recent months. The rate is now
running at about £l5O million a year,
more than doubling 1961 and 1962. At
present for all savings banks the latest
figures available, for December, show
that housing loans were running at 21.1
per cent of depositors’ balances. This av-
erage is certainly helped by an institution
like the State Savings Bank of Victoria,
which lends above that. However, the
Bank of NSW Savings Bank was lending
21.1 per cent, while the ANZ Savings
Bank was lending 18.7 per cent and, sur-
prisingly enough, the Commonwealth
Savings Bank was lending only 18.9 per
cent.
Any talk about the banks’ lending re-


SK
a
§
a
a
sc
:v
I
i
i
Vi
%
££
**
>
%
m
COME AND
ENJOY THE
“MATSON
DIFFERENCE’
through the
Ports of Paradise
to the U.S.A.
S.S. Mariposa S.S. Monterey
Come aboard the S.S. MARIPOSA or MONTEREY.
As you cruise the Pacific between Australia and the U.S.A.,
discover the matchless beauty of Matson’s Ports
of Paradise.
See the difference with time to spare as you explore
Noumea ... so French yet so picturesquely Polynesian . . .
shop in duty-free Suva. Watch the unique “tin can
mail” exchange at Niuafo’ou . . . visit tropical
Pago Pago, romantic Honolulu, guarded by Diamond Head
. . . and San Francisco, where love of a city
is born at first sight.
Feel the difference as you cruise in the Grand Manner
of Matson . . . princely comfort, air conditioned
luxury and Polynesian decor.
Experience, too, the magnificent service that only
Matson provides.
Appreciate the full difference of Matson as you return in
the Grand Manner through Los Angeles, Bora Bora,
Tahiti, Rarotonga and Auckland.
Why not make 1964 your year to discover new friends
and enjoy this incomparable experience. There’s no other
way to travel to the U.S.A. that equals the
Grand Manner of Matson. We sail every 3 weeks.
There’s so much more to know ... let us tell you,
or ask your Travel Agent.
San Francisco
Honolulu
jrf A T *
/ Los
A ngeles
Sura C X *
Pago
Niuafo’ou
/ f Bora Bora
Sydney Rarotonga •Tahiti
Auckland
50 Young St., Sydney. Phone 27.4272 • 454 Collins St., Melbourne. Phone 67.7237
8776A/105


cord must run into the question of the
requirement that the private and Com-,
monwealth Savings Banks should have a
high percentage of their deposits in cash
on hand, deposited with the Reserve
Bank or placed in Government or semi-
Government securities. Until last August
it was 70 per cent, but the Government
then eased it to 65 per cent and allowed
relaxation to put short-term money
market loans within the 65 per cent.
The spurt in savings bank home lending
has followed this. The question is
whether the increase has been a true
reflection of this concession. The banks
say strongly that it has been.
But discussion about banks’ loans and
deposit gap can raise other questions. At
present the announced limit for savings
bank loans is £3500. However, in cer-
tain circumstances, and this is being more
widely interpreted, loans can go up to
£4OOO. Bridging loans are available
from the trading bank at higher rates,
still only 6 per cent, but on very short
term repayments. Although the percent-
age of valuation is not specified by all
banks the highest is 75 per cent, still a
long way behind the announced 95 per
cent potential put forward by the Gov-
ernment and commonly operative under
the FHA. Also there is often a valua-
tion-gap between ruling price and bank’s
estimate.
Capacity to Repay
T>ut a discussion with bankers, about
the deposit gap, that particular pro-
blem of middle-class home buyers, comes
back to the question of capacity to repay.
What Mr Cameron argues is that “over
the last decade the cost of building and
the cost of land have risen beyond the
capacity of many would-be purchasers to
pay. So that in some circumstances
lending institutions are commendably re-
luctant to see a man saddle himself with
debt that he cannot meet”. At present
the general rule seems to run among Aus-
tralian lending institutions that a fair rate
of repayment for a man to be able to
meet is about 25 per cent of his salary
or wages.
There can be no doubt that the Gov-
ernment wants to meet that situation with
its guarantee up to 95 per cent and
longer terms. But changes in previous
lending practices will be called for and
bankers warn that a lower deposit can
mean less money to go round.
One other problem confronting the
banks is the spectre of inflation and also
the role of the Reserve Bank requests on
lending policy. The suggestion is put
forward that to overcome the housing
shortage in any sharp, sudden way may
mean inflation.
To an extent this possibility might be
met by a strengthening of the market for
existing properties instead of putting
extra money into new houses and the
building industry. For some time it was
Government policy and hence savings
bank policy to lend almost exclusively
for new houses to get the maximum
number of homes built. Now, as Mr
Bury puts it, “the time has come to get
the market for used houses stronger. It
needs to be made more flexible. Older
places have tended to be under-used and
mobility affected.”
Bank policy has been tending to take
more account of older houses, but on
them the problem of the deposit gap in
an inflated market can often be serious,
especially for the middle-class buyer.
Bank loans will, unless the economy
takes a shaking, continue in an upward
trend if for no other reason than deposits
are rising substantially. But whether or
not changes in lending policies will take
place after the Government talks is too
soon to speculate.
Generally linked with the banks as
sort of appendage in the discussions
about housing finance are the Life As-
surance Offices of Australia. They have
come under some fire recently from Mr
Landa for not letting out as much money
as formerly to the building societies. This
follows a conscious switch in policy from
about 1956 when the assurance com-
panies diverted most of their lending to
policy-holders. With the NSW termina-
ting building societies, for instance, the
assurance and insurance companies still
have over £36 million in loans out-
standing but their rate of investments
have so far tapered off that in the last
financial year the societies only received
£750,000 and none of it from the pre-
vious big assurance company contri-
butors.
Better Assurance Loans
T oans to policy-holders have to be
secured by a policy to the amount of
the loan. At present the assurance com-
panies’ loans are running at the rate of
£24 million a year, some 13 per cent
of their assets being involved at pre-
sent. This compares with 17 per cent
for other mortgages. The regulation laid
down by the Government to the effect
that 30 per cent of assurance company
funds must be in Government or semi-
Government securities has, in fact, taking
in account tax concessions and low ad-
ministrative costs, provided the assurance
companies with a better investment
than housing. The necessary return on
funds of about six and three-quarter per
cent needed to sustain policy holders’
interests precludes, according to author-
ities, any substantial increase in low-
interest housing loans.
Assurance companies, however, do
provide finance for more realistic limits
in today’s price market. Two companies
have no prescribed limit, three have a
£5OOO limit, one £lO,OOO and the other
£6OOO. However, they are as con-
servative as banks on deposits.
It is true that the ever-increasing
number of policy holders must lead to
continuing rise in loans, but there are
no indications that it can be a drama-
tic one.
Yet another major difference between
the American and Australian situation
is the established situation where the
Federal Government here makes a very
substantial contribution to cheap housing.
In the United States that area is mainly
covered through private investors using
the FHA guarantee. In the current
financial year the Commonwealth-State
housing agreement is providing £48.6
million for distribution through the
States. Since 1956 one-third of this
(except in SA) has gone to strengthen-
ing terminating co-operative building
societies. Much of the Government
money must go to rental housing for the
low-income section of the community.
Generous low deposit and interest rates
are available for purchase of these State
cottages. Similarly there are generous
rates (the best in Australia —3f per cent)
for the incredibly high figure of
£35,500,000 allotted for War Service
Homes this financial year.
If the contribution of housing loans
for the ACT and Northern Territory
public servants is taken into account
then the Federal Government’s expendi-
ture for cheap housing in the current
financial year will be about £9O million.
Although some people are talking
about the possibility that the mortgage
insurance scheme might lead to a con-
traction of the State Housing Commis-
sions’ roles, it is difficult to see this
happening. In Australia the raising of
that amount of money, at cheap interest
rates, is an impossibility.
Next to the Federal Government and
the State Housing Commissions the major
distributors of cheap finance in Aus-
tralia for housing are the terminating
co-operative building societies. The
societies began in NSW 26 years ago
and there are now about 2400 such


: ; 'i : : xSiijii :'-x :
t-mrrseD
ItffcfftiC**' (MfiftlftG Division
B*S *#!!*s AWHMs, mm»V n $ W
: ' ••::■•. -
240 V. 30 AMPS.
1
i *n i
WIW«
«K vw,
xit
IL
: %
OFF
*
> * s
ON
ON
ON
ON
i*wl
:m: .;
r«ay :
s»-*c
*«v
!»~AC
$ AMPS.. LiSHT
SAM PS , POIS E R
Remember the frantic search for the
torch, the screwdriver, the fuse wire?
Then the groping trip to the fuse box
and the dilemma: which fuse was the
culprit? Email has changed all this
with the production of the simple
device you see here—the Westinghouse
Circuit Breaker. It offers even greater
protection than a fuse, yet, with the
flick of the switch, your power is
restored!
It is more than logical that you should
look to Email for a progressive develop-
what happened when the lights went out?
ment like the modern Circuit Breaker.
For Email plays a vital part in the
electrical affairs of this nation. From
generating equipment for giant power
houses through distribution networks to
sub-stations and from there, finally, to
industry and home you will find Email-
built equipment.
Email’s practical contribution is well
evidenced in the electrical world. But
it does not stop here. In a host of other
engineering and manufacturing fields
the many Divisions that are Email are
constantly working to supply the needs
of the growing, thriving nation that is
Australia.
Email Limited
ELECTRICAL & INDUSTRIAL
MANUFACTURING GROUP


societies throughout Australia, the bulk
of them in NSW (1500) and Victoria
(740). They provide low interest money
for housing (between 5 and 4i per cent)
with maximum loan limits of £3500
(soon to be £3750 in NSW). The money
comes, as already noted, from the Com-
monwealth Government and banks, and
from insurance and assurance companies
but now to a much lesser extent. They
cater largely for lower-income groups
which need the lower rates. There is no
prospect of their raising sufficient cheap
money to replace their present sources.
The general deposit ratio is often only
20 per cent, so the Commonwealth
Government’s £250 bonus can potenti-
ally be of great assistance to low income
families in bridging their deposit gap.
The mortgage guarantee scheme is not
likely to have great scope because the
societies already possess State Govern-
ment guarantees.
The Middle-Class Problem
TVen allowing for the work of Govern-
ment Housing Commissions and
the terminating societies there is still a
large back-log of demand for cheap
housing. The total of 70,000 on the
waiting lists of the Housing Commissions
alone is sufficient proof of this, allowing
perhaps for some inflation of figures. The
question is how far this could be solved
by guarantees being offered to the private
sector and how far it can only be solved
by more Government money.
Where the low income group has its
problems but also special concessions to
help it, the middle-class, as building
authorities freely admit, has run into
the land boom and the deposit gap with-
out the cushioning kind of finance avail-
able to the lower income groups. Some
ten per cent of the tax-paying community
are on wages between £3O and £4O
a week. Actually, because the pro-
portion of juniors and women on wages
under £2O a week make the figures
unreliable for calculating family incomes,
the percentage of family-heads on that
figure is certainly higher.
But where that appears to be a
reasonable income to obtain a house on,
many a married man has found other-
wise. The Managing Director of Lend
Lease Homes Ltd, Mr A. Howard, runs
what is almost certainly the biggest
middle-class project building enterprise
in Australia, constructing some 500
homes a year in Sydney, Melbourne and
Canberra. The general experience of this
company has been to find that the £3500
limit-loans available from the conven-
tional sources are not enough. Up to
50 per cent of their buyers have been
involved in some kind of second
mortgage transaction.
Solicitors involved in conveyancing
can tell the same story of the second
mortgage with higher interest rates.
It is clear that the Government had in
mind that its mortgage guarantee plan
would do something to break this situa-
tion. Apart from discussions with the
banks on conditions for loans and the
possible application of the guarantee the
Federal Government has another tool to
hand the emerging force of the Per-
manent Building Societies.
Discussions about housing finance in
the future tends to turn to what role these
societies will play. Strangely enough the
Australian structure where the terminat-
ing societies have the dominant role
among co-operatives is unique. As al-
ready commented, in the United States
personal savings have been attracted to
co-operative type institutions. The assets
of such institutions concerned with lend-
ing for housing is now said to have
reached 100 billion dollars. In the Uni-
ted Kingdom their assets are approaching
£5OO million.
The last 25 years has seen a gradual
build-up in Australia. But only the last
three years has brought a quickening of
pace. In NSW money invested has doub-
led in the last three years. A national
body recently formed has member
societies with assets of £7B million and
those outside it would bring the Aus-
tralian total to near £lOO million, i.e.,
about one-fifth of the savings banks’ out-
standing and pending loans. The Per-
manents act as virtual housing banks
inviting deposits from the public and
offering 6 per cent interest (generally).
They are now under rigid State control.
The Expansion of the Permanents
/"kN the future role of the Permanents,
” Mr Bury says: “I think it’s reason-
able that they should expand and I hope
they will.” The secretary of the Real
Estate Institute of NSW, Mr V. Collins,
goes further: “In my view the Perma-
nents are the hope.”
Policy of the Permanents is pretty
consistently for a 20 per cent deposit
and limits are generally running about
£5OOO. A relatively small number of
Permanents control most of the funds.
Certainly water-tight Government
guarantees of the kind proposed would
help them with investors. The general
manager of the NSW Co-operative
and Permanent, Mr Angus Moir, who
was one of the founders of the National
Association, says that the end “is now in
sight to the housing finance shortage and
in two years the buyer will be able to
shop around.”
The interest rates charged range
through 7 2 per cent to 7 per cent re-
ducible generally in monthly rests over
up to 25 years. Of course if the Com-
monwealth does charge a one-half per
cent charge then that will push the in-
terest up further.
Mr Moir takes on the question of
higher interest rates head-on. “There is
a great deal of pious nonsense talked
about ‘high interest rates’ and cheap
money.” He argues that where the
money has to be raised from the public
investor a fair and attractive rate has
to be offered and charged.
But if Mr Moir’s optimism about the
situation in two years is to be justified
there will almost certainly have to be a
very big increase in the Permanents’
assets and this raises the question of
whether they will be an inflationary force.
Mr Bury doubts this: “I don’t think
the development of the Permanents
would create a dangerous situation. They
are essentially conservative institutions,
not engaging in speculation, being Hous-
ing Banks.” The Government, although
it might have no direct power, could still
use as a weapon the number of guaran-
tees it was prepared to offer.
Those associated with the Permanents
argue that they will not compete with
banks because they would be tending to
attract money which always wanted bet-
ter interest than savings banks, people like
the small investors who went disastrously
into some kinds, of debentures over the
last few years.
In summary, then, the future of hous-
ing finance in this country is in some-
thing of a state of flux. It will take
months for the full implications of the
Government’s mortgage guarantee
scheme to be worked out. The scheme
will not materially affect the role of the
Government and terminating societies
in cheap housing. It remains a matter
for long, hard talks on how far it can
change conditions of loans from banks
and assurance companies.
From both these kinds of institutions
a steady increase appears certain, with-
out any dramatic upsurge. In the field
of the Permanent building societies
large-scale development appears certain,
on better terms for the borrower, except-
ing for higher interest rates. But the
pieces of the jig-saw will still take a lot
of fitting together and it’s a big job for
Mr Bury and his fledgling Department.


Around Melbourne
WHEN FLAPPERS FLUTTERED THROUGH FLAMES
one ask for your forbear-
ance? By now it must be all too
obvious that I have an insufferable
passion for old movie houses. The
gush you are about to receive was
caused by the advent of “Cleopatra”.
You must understand that Mel-
bourne was nearly the last city in the
world to get “Cleopatra”. We looked
in craven envy when Sydney got
“Cleopatra” way back on December
5. Rumors seeped through to us how
you had the largest hand-painted
“Cleopatra” poster outside Times
Square in New York a magnifi-
cent 78 feet by 26 feet. The pub-
licity people here told us that it was
all done in small squares, which
raised fearful problems. When they
completed it they found there was a
line straight down Miss Taylor’s
bosom, with the result that they had
to do several hundred square feet of
bosom again. Now her bosom has
been adjusted and tested to keep out
the weather for two years.
Unfortunately, we did not get a
poster of similar generous propor-
tions, but we had an opening of the
world's first Cleopatra Theatre. This
opening was attended by the Gov-
ernor, Sir Rohan Delacombe, and
Lady Delacombe, the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress, Cr and Mrs
Curtis. Many of us had hoped, see-
ing that this was the world’s last
grand opening, we might have had
the presence of Mr Richard Burton
and Miss Taylor, but we were con-
soled by the fact that they refused
also to attend the world’s first grand
opening.
The lady ushers were almost dress-
ed for the part. As you may remem-
ber, in “Cleopatra” no neckline went
unplunged; but the girls wore a
version of the costume that Liz Tay-
lor wore during the movie ... A
somewhat Methodist Ladies’ College
version. I won’t bore you with a
review of the film, but some of the
comments from the audience were
memorable: “I think Hoyts should
have issued us all with a survival
kit.” . . . “Frankly, the only creature
I felt sorry for was the asn” . . .
and . . . “Yes, I had to come, old
man, I never miss a Roddy Mc-
Dowell movie.”
But you should have seen the
Cleopatra Theatre. Hoyts had just
spent £lOO,OOO. It was dripping with
gold from end to end. The carpet
was burgundy and gold and the walls
were covered with gold curtain, over
1700 yards of the stuff. Yes, a mile
of gold curtain.
It was somewhat similar to being
in a Buddhist temple in Bangkok.
But you know how sometimes you
lie in bed in a country hotel bedroom
and study the fascinating designs on
the ceiling, stamped in metal? The
ceiling here was exactly the same.
Heavens above, this was the old
Lyceum Theatre.
'Vj’ow the Lyceum originally opened
as the Paramount back in 1915.
In those days, to the devil with Col-
lins Street. Bourke Street was the
real entertainment area, and hard by
was the Theatre Royal, the Gaiety,
the Bijou; the city and 13 live
theatres. But the Paramount was the
picture theatre and, my word, on
Saturday night you had to pay 2s. 6d.
a ticket —big money in World War I.
Later I sneaked out through the
Todd AO Buddhist curtains through
a side door into the lane, and I was
back with the Paramount of 1916
when Frank Thring Snr. and Sir
George Tallis owned all. I passed the
old stables, a sign at least 60 years
old which read “The Bookmakers’
Association of Victoria,” and up
some condemned stairs. Lo, there I
found the old office and a heap of
ancient posters.
There was Gloria Swanson in “The
Prodigal Daughters”. The poster fell
rather below the erotic appeal of
Sydney’s Liz poster, but Gloria’s
neckline was reasonably plunged and
her skirt shamelessly above the knee.
The copy read: “A party is in pro-
gress. Present are unshackled females
with butterfly souls, debutantes in
daring costumes, charming chorus
girls. foolish flappers fluttering
through flames and attended by aged
cavaliers and sleek parlor snobs. See
the modern jazz girl at her dizziest
pace.”
Mary Pickford, “Everybody's
Sweetheart' 5 , was peeling from one
wall, Doris Kenyon in “The
Last Moment” was fading on another.
They were described as “Paramount
Super Productions”.
Then I turned back to the first day,
Boxing Day, 1915, when the Para-
mount opened at a cost of £12,000
with a seating capacity of 1500 and
a new innovation to Melbourne,
a lounge. Mary Pickford starred in
“Rags' 5 , a charming story according
to the “Argus”, where Miss Pickford
rose from poverty to affuence and
made the mistake of marrying a
theif, a sottish drunkard.
The next big show was Theda Bara
in “Carmen”, and it was fascinating
to look at the ads. In early 1916 there
were no fancy blocks.. There was a
whole column in the “Argus” headed
“The Temple of Motion Picture Art”.
The name of Theda Bara, “The Most
Beautiful Woman in the World”,
was repeated about 400 times down
the column in 12 point black caps.
“Carmen” received excellent
reviews and “Table Talk” reported:
“Theda Bara is a superb, sensuous,
coquettish woman, who is dangerously
alluring and absolutely reckless as to
how she works her will.”
And frankly, after reading this,
she made Elizabeth Taylor seem al-
most pallid. However, “Cleopatra,” the
latest show at the Temple of Motion
Picture Art, is destined to run at
least two years. However, one won-
ders whether they have adopted a
new policy here, this idea of naming
the theatre after the present show.
After all, it was the Paramount in
1915, the Lyceum in 1933, the New
Lyceum in 1937, and now Cleopatra.
I understand arrangements are
being made for a new colossal film
to be made on the entire Bible. Could
this be a new name for the Cleo-
patra in, say, 1967?
BATMAN


m
See also: Nissan Cedric 8-seafer Station Wagon
a
«|CS
You cun buy
un £lBOO luxury cur
for £1375
(and there's no catch to it)
I
ms
f
PT.
’M.
A precision product of the Nissan Motor Co., Japan .
First and foremost Nissan ‘Cedric’ looks
like an £lBOO motor car. Classic styling
stamps it immediately as an aristocrat
sets it apart from cars you think of only as
transport. Everywhere you look, the work-
manship is perfect. Where there’s chrome, it
is deep chrome that looks more like silver.
The tasteful colour scheme sparkles from
lustrous depths of coat after coat of hand-
finished baked enamel. Even the wheels are
better shod, with premium quality white
walled tyres.
Let’s look inside. This car has everything.
The whole interior is richly furnished with
thick, woven carpet underlaid with foam
rubber \ inch thick. Now sink into the deep
comfortable seat behind the wheel and dis-
cover why luxury car owners love to drive.
One switch you don’t often see is for twin
fog lamps. There is also a complete range
of instruments and a warning light for the
hand brake. The heater demister has a
variable speed fan just as you'd expect in
a luxury car. Put your hand up to the roof
and you find there’s more than air between
the headlining and the roof. Nissan is insu-
lated with fibreglass to keep you cool. And
if you don’t like heat you would not appreciate
glare, so all the windows are optically tinted.
At night, twin head lights push back the dark
with a highway of light. As well as the usual
courtesy light, there are step lights in the
rear doors. You will find a light in the boot,
and one under the bonnet . . . this one
doubles as a trouble light, and the built-in
lead reaches right around the car. If the
interior dome light shines a little too bright,
then dim it with the variable control. It’s
hardly necessary to mention that Nissan has
2-speed wipers and windscreen washers.
How does Nissan perform? It's not the fastest
car on the road —it’s a luxury car with
delightful manners. When the speedo needle
indicates 95 miles per hour, Nissan sits com-
fortably on the road, the same as it does at
30, 40, 50 or 60 miles per hour. Surprisingly,
It returns 28 miles per gallon around the
city —even more on a trip. Steering is
about as much effort as you would need to
summon a butler and the brakes are big, swift
and sure.
Nissan ‘Cedric’, leader in the tradition of
Japanese workmanship, is produced by the
world’s fifth biggest automobile manufacturer.
With a car such as this, you can expect
extraordinary skill and dedicated attention
to detail. Yet Nissan is not one of those
cars which is understood only by specialists.
Parts such as spark plugs, points, etc., are
readily exchanged with the car which tops the
‘popular’ class in Australia. If you need
anything else, you will find a truly complete
range of Nissan spares readily available on
a national basis.
It will take you one hour to see everything
this fine limousine has to offer. That one hour
could save you more than £4OO. That’s £7
a minute. If you can spare an hour, call at
your nearest Nissan-Datsun dealer. It will
pay you handsomely.
AUSTRALIAN CONCESSIONAIRES:
NISSAN MOTOR DISTRIBUTORS (AUST.)
63 KINGSWAY, SOUTH MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. 62 1741
Proudly sold and serviced by
240 fine dealers throughout Australia.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS: SYDNEY: Capitol Motors (Holdings) Pty. Ltd., 31 9051-2-3; MELBOURNE: City Motors, 34 9251, 34 9175; BRISBANE: Ira Berk (Qld.)
Pty. Ltd.. 5 3561; ADELAIDE: Carcycle Pty. Ltd., 8 0363; PERTH: Duncan Motor Company Pty. Ltd., 21 8761, 21 6434; LAUNCESTON: Northern Motors,
21651; DARWIN: Cavenagh Car Sales Pty. Ltd., 3393.
CM:6I2


OUT AND ABOUT
The Gifted, Sombre
Mr Benny
The tired businessman’s tired businessman?
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Asea of hats rippled as Jack Benny
made his famous blase TV en-
trance into a Second Empire Syd-
ney hash-house. The eyes of women
shoppers snapped, teeth were bared, and
the overheard chatter had a Patrick
White nightmare quality. ‘'Dare we?”
I heard a housewife hiss at her com-
panion. Then someone else dared. She
came up, gushed, and darted away.
“They’re nice people here in Sydney, even
the Press,” Benny said expressionlessly.
Harald Bowden, one of J. C. William-
son’s veteran directors, was behind us,
irritable at the absence of the restaurant
manager. “Where is he?” he groaned as
we tried to locate a table. Finally, a
beaming waitress at hand, Benny sank
into a corner above the staircase while
the entire room began to sound like a
farmyard. Amid clucks, he looked
suddenly tired. To his usual diet of
fingernails and black coffee he added a
toasted cheese and ham sandwich. “I like
dainty things,” he said, smiling faintly at
the chewed up leaf of lettuce on the
plate. “And teahouses. Old things. When
I was here in 1944 I stayed at your old
hotel, you know, the Australia. It’s still
the best hotel in town. I'm not staying
there now.”
Away from television studio and stage,
Benny is sombre, almost grim. The eyes
behind the huge black hornrims are
watery and seldom show emotion. He is
said to be temperamental and explosive
while preparing a show, but he seems so
mild-mannered as to be almost mousy,
much closer to the put-upon victim of
circumstances of his “official” personality
than one would have expected. In the
public media his effectiveness lies in his
not being dramatic in any way. His
comedy is situation comedy, scrupulously
planned and rehearsed. For him, acting
is evidently hard work, like ditch-digging
■ — no room for the sudden inspired
gesture, the ad-lib that illuminates or
sparkles. He is the tired businessman’s
tired businessman —a clown who literally
played Hamlet (in Lubitsch’s film “To Be
or Not to Be”) and hasn’t forsaken the
role.
I asked him how his public person-
ality had developed from the early vaude-
ville days through the radio career begin-
ning in 1932 (“Ladies and gentlemen,
this is Jack Benny talking. There will be
a slight pause while you say, ‘Who
cares?”’), to the years in Hollywood
from “The Big Broadcast of 1936” on-
ward, the television show beginning in
1950 with its viewing audience of more
than 40 million, earning him as much
as a million dollars a year. “Well I
suppose I’m best known for my feud
with the late Fred Allen and my violin
playing.”
They both began as a gimmick around
the same time. “A 10-year-old kid on
my radio show played "The Bee’. Fred
Allen said, ‘Jack Benny, you ought to be
ashamed.’ I replied, ‘When I was 10
years old I could play ‘The Bee.’ He said
he didn’t believe me and hired some
stooges apparently from my home town
to say I couldn't play ‘The Bee’ at that
age. Next week I hired some stooges to
say I could. That’s how the feud began.”
The legendary meanness —in one TV
episode, Benny kept his money in a shoe
with a combination to the heel—had
sprung spontaneously from a few lines
of dialogue in an early radio show. “If
anyone had said to me 30 years ago that
my meanness, my feud with Fred Allen,
my violin playing would become my
trademark Fd have said ‘phfft!’ ”
Rochester, the famous gravel-voiced
manservant in the TV show's Beverly
Hills house, had appeared in a radio
session as a Pullman porter when Benny
was supposed to be on a trip from New
York to Los Angeles. Rochester had got
laughs, and the script-writers had given
him more lines. He was cast as Benny's
servant in future shows and was with
him for about 30 years, but Benny said,
“lately he’s been very ill, and he's be-
come less articulate. He hasn't appeared
so often on the show.” The other
regular, singer Dennis Day, seemed to
me an odd anachronism, with a falsetto
tenor reminiscent of Kenny Baker, Dick
Powell, and the early ’thirties. But some-
how he’s still kept on.
“The planning for a show begins with
a discussion—l may come up with a
bright idea and the writers work on it
a little bit —finally we edit the script
together, and that takes maybe an hour.
On Wednesday we have the rehearsal,
then there’s a camera rehearsal, move-
ments blocked out, that kind of thing.
In dialogue rehearsal there’s a good deal
of cutting, rewriting. Finally we play
the whole thing out in front of a live
audience. Then it’s filmed, laughter and
all.” The shows have to be timeless
because of the lapse of several months
between filming and showing on tele-
vision.
The formula for Jack Benny is fixed
now. The shows are set, as a rule, in


Which is the copy?
• s--
W f -
•-
xJlfm,
. >
£ 1
■<l i i
f3f]!
liftalPWP'
'M H 1 “
" 0 W
*/ '. ✓
■■m
Wwi-t
WP#
•v..
Ai', %
A, 4 mII s¥}
*>
m,, >
4 as?':
/
m
i-■■■■■■'
K-
'(ilMMlJS*
,i.\v
r
vr
A \
itaiiV'Vj
,i '
s#"
, .
pi a, | a
5f )%<wk
Mb m 3
/
Only the Rank Xerox 914 knows (and Sam)
It is difficult to tell the Rank Xerox
914 copy from the original because
the Rank Xerox 914 Office Copier
is unique. It copies on ordinary
bond paper. In fact, the Rank
Xerox 914 knows how to do a lot
of things other copiers can’t do.
No costly, sensitized paper to buy.
No messy, wet chemicals. The
Rank Xerox 914 process is dry.
Copies anything—pencil, ballpoint,
pen, everything. Even pages in
bound volumes. Every copy per-
fect and permanent. Low-cost
copies. Never any waste with the
revolutionary Rank Xerox 914.
Fast, too. Seven copies a minute —
automatically. And easy! Well,
you know how easy if you’ve seen
Sam demonstrate on TV. You just
dial the number of copies you want
—and push the button. No adjust-
ments ever.
No capital outlay. You borrow our
Rank Xerox 914 and pay only for
the copies you make. So why not
accept this invitation to see the
Rank Xerox 914 in action? We
promise you one of the most profit-
able half hours you have spent for
a long time.
YOU ARE INVITED
TO A SPECIAL DEMONSTRATION OF THE
UNIQUE RANK XEROX 914 OFFICE COPIER.
PLEASE TELEPHONE YOUR NEAREST RANK
XEROX OFFICE FOR DETAILS.
RANK
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
49 Market Street, SYDNEY 2 0663
83 King Street, NEWCASTLE . , . B 1994
164 Melbourne St., STH. BRISBANE 4 3836
316 Queen Street, MELBOURNE 67 6185
1095 Hay Street, PERTH 21 4097
163-7 Halifax Street, ADELAIDE 8 3125
Suite 5, Garema Arcade, Garema
Place, Canberra City, A.C.T. . . 4 7575
24 Murray Street, HOBART 2 2688
86/64


SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD. AUSTRALIA
DEMAND
At the Annual General Meeting last year
shareholders were advised that the domestic
demand for our products was at a high level.
This is still the position and in fact the
local demand has increased considerably in
the past six months.
The market position of certain products
deserves special mention. The demand for
tinplate generally shows seasonal fluctua-
tions, being slack in the winter and rising
to high levels during the canning season in
the summer months. It is therefore particu-
larly pleasing to record that it was possible
to maintain a high output at the tinplate
plant for the half-year ended November last
by export business supplementing local sales.
The demand for plates, associated as it is
to a considerable extent with public works,
remained strong right through the recession
period of 1961-62. The resurgence of activity
in the economy has brought with it an
expansion in plate requirements which we
are being hard pressed to meet. The com-
missioning at the end of the period under
review, of the new 140” plate mill at Port
Kembla is having two important effects on
this section of the market. First we are in a
much better position to meet customers’ re-
quirements and will be increasingly so when
the new wide finishing line comes into opera-
tion later this year and secondly our ability
to roil much wider plates will provide a
further service to Australian industry.
There has also been a very high demand
for structural sections, and importations have
taken place to meet qrgent requirements. This
position will be relieved when the new
structural mill at Whyalla is commissioned
in the middle of this year.
Mills producing merchant sections have
been fully occupied during the year, and it
is expected that this situation will be main-
tained for the next six months. Some addi-
tional rolling capacity for merchant sections
has become available as the new rod mill at
Newcastle has reduced the tonnage of rods
which need to be rolled on the light merch-
ant mill at Port Kembla.
The steadily increasing output from the
rod mill has also improved the raw material
feed position at the plants of our wire
drawing subsidiaries. These have been enjoy-
ing buoyant market conditions, and their
plants have been maintained at, or near,
full output levels during the period under
review, a situation which is expected to con-
tinue for the balance of the year.
In the field of exports, competition con-
tinues to be intense and the pressure on
prices severe. In recent years world steel-
making capacity has increased well ahead of
demand and this situation has been largely
responsible for the unsettled conditions in
world markets. There are now, however, in-
dications of increasing steel requirements
generally throughout the world and in recent
months production rates in many overseas
countries have been increased from previously
depressed levels.
Exports of iron and steel products were
somewhat lower in the period under review
than in recent previous periods because of
the need to meet the sharply increased local
demand. Nevertheless, we are fully seized with
the importance of continuing to supply export
markets which show any prospect of being
permanent and despite the current difficulties
ive are continuing to make some tonnages
available in these quarters.
Our Overseas Division has acquired a con-
siderable fund of experience and knowledge
which has proved valuable in the develop-
ment of export business, and will increasingly
be so in the future.
PRODUCTION
Significant advances in output were again
recorded for the past half-year. The substan-
tial rise in pig iron production is attri-
butable, largely to the commissioning in
July of the fourth blast furnace at New-
castle. A noteworthy production run at Port
Kembla will draw to a close when No. 4
blast furnace is shut down in the near
future for its first reline since commissioning
in May, 1959. During this period, it will have
produced 3.6 million tons of iron.
Production of ingot steel by 8.H.P./A.I.S.
was 12.5% greater in the period under review
than in the corresponding period last year,
and 9.7% higher than the previous six months.
This reflects the increased use of oxygen in
steelmaking generally, together with improve-
ments in the performance of the new basic
oxygen steelmaking plant at Newcastle.
The increased output of ingot steel is re-
flected in improvements in the quantities of
semi-finished products rolled, as typified by
the figures for blooms and slabs given In
the following table, and in the production of
finished steel in various forms.
8.H.P./A.I.S. COMBINED OUTPUT
'(Million Tons)
Half year ending Nov., 1962 May 1963 Nov., 1963
Pig Iron 1.651 1.689 1.844
Steel Ingots 2.064 2.117 2.323
Blooms and Slabs 1.833 1.879 2.009
COSTS
As shareholders have been advised pre-
viously we are devoting a good deal of atten-
tion and much capital expenditure to the
reduction of costs. Despite these efforts the
tendency is for costs to continue to rise and
this has been offset only in part by increased
production. The weight of cost increases now
being absorbed by the industry is consider-
able.
DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION
Our development programme has proceeded
according to plan during the half-year with a
continuing high rate of capital expenditure
and a number of important projects have
been completed.
At Newcastle the recent major construction
programme is nearing completion. The new
No. 4 Blast Furnace was blown in on 21st
July last and is operating very well. A bat-
tery of coke ovens built on the site of the old
No. 2 Battery was completed and commenced
production towards the end of December.
Additional by-product plant and materials
handling equipment is being installed to
provide for the operation of four batteries
of coke ovens, and this work should be com-
pleted by mid-year. Investigations are pro-
ceeding as to the possibility of installing a
continuous casting plant at Newcastle.
The most important recent event at Port
Kembla was the commissioning of the 140”
plate mill in November. Work on the 120”
plate finishing line, ancillary to this mill, is
proceeding according to programme for com-
pletion in the latter part of this year.
At the Tinplate plant, construction of the
continuous annealing line is expected to be
completed by August; good progress is being
made with the electrolytic tinning line exten-
sions which are scheduled to be completed
towards the end of the year and arrange-
ments for the provision of an 800” per minute
continuous pickle line are well in hand.
At Whyalla, work on the various units
comprising the new steelworks is making
good progress. It is expected that the new
structural mill will be completed in March,
and the bloom mill and basic oxygen steel-
making plant will follow at the end of the
year. In the intervening period, the structural
mill will go through its commissioning period
and for this purpose will take its feed from
Newcastle or Port Kembla. A new laboratory,
to serve the steel plant and the works gene-
rally, is nearing completion. Looking further
ahead, it is expected that the second blast
furnace for Whyalla, will be blown in about
the middle of 1965. Site work has begun and
detailed design work is well in hand. Other
work at Whyalla includes the building of the
new ore loading jetty which will provide for
larger ore carriers than those now in ser-
vice. Dredging for this project is in hand.
The South Australian Housing Trust con-
tinues to serve Whyalla well. It has been
responsible for the construction of 1,700
houses since 1958, and plans have been laid
for the building of 400 houses in 1964. This
is in anticipation of the larger workforce
which will be required at the steelworks and
the shipyard.
At Kwinana, Western Australia, site work
has begun on a two stage programme for the
establishment of a steel works. As reported
previously the first stage comprises a blast
furnace with its necessary ancillary plant
and also a jetty for incoming raw materials
and for the shipment of ore. Work has started
on the erection of service shops, which form
part of the initial stage of this project.
Further advance has been made with the
development of our collieries on the Northern
and Southern coalfields of New South Wales.
Recent highlights in the programme include
the haulage of coal from the Dudley seam
by a belt conveyor system through a new
tunnel at Lambton Colliery and the elimina-
tion of contract hand mining at Burwood
Colliery so that the whole of the product-
ion from the Northern Collieries is now won
mechanically. At John Darling Colliery the
cross measure drift has been driven and it
is anticipated that it will be ready in Sep-
tember for the haulage of coal to the sur-
face by conveyor belt. In the Southern coal-
field, operation of the main conveyor haulage
and underground storage facilities at. Nebo
Colliery commenced in January and at Appin
Colliery the first stage of development has
been completed and preparations are now in
hand for the handling of coal down the
escarpment to the rail head.
At Koolan Island, in Tampi Sound, Western
Australia, work is continuing on the con-
struction of the crushing plant, ore storage
bin. wharf and shiploading plant in readiness
for the quarrying equipment which will in-
clude 6-cubic yard electric shovels and 50-ton
motor trucks. Ore production is scheduled
to commence about the end of this year.
PROSPECTING AND EXPLORATION
Prospecting and exploration continues in
widely separated parts of the Commonwealth.
Testing of the iron ore deposits at Koolyanob-
bing is now well advanced, and construction
of the crushing plant will commence shortly.
In the Pilbara region of Western Australia,
where we have proved very large reserves of
iron ore, drilling and testing continue. Con-
siderable investigation has been made and is
continuing into the location of a suitable
port site on this difficult coast line.
It is proposed that the very large reserves
of lime sands at Coffin Bay on Lower Eyre
Peninsula, South Australia, should be
developed to augment existing sources of
limestone and the proposal provides for the
supply of approximately 750.000 tons per an-
num primarily for use in our sinter plants
to replace ground limestone. This develop-
ment will involve the construction of a rail-
way to Port Lincoln and the establishment of
ship loading facilities at Proper Bay.
A deposit of manganese ore on Groote
Eylandt in the Gulf of Carpentaria is being
tested, and results to date indicate that
this area has reasonable prosects as a future
source of this raw material.
At the present time, total Australian pro-
duction of tin is less than our own require-
ments. In order to assist in the stimula-
tion of tin production in Australia, the Com-
pany has taken up 800,000 fully paid 5/- shares
in Aberfoyle Holdings Limited at a premium
of 5/- per share with an option to acquire,
on a basis related to market price, up to a
further one million shares. In addition, our
own prospecting for this mineral continues.
The data obtained from the marine seismic
survey undertaken in the offshore areas of
Bass Strait and South Australia by our sub-
sidiary company. Haematite Explorations Pty.
Ltd., are being reviewed and assessed. Inter-
pretation of the geology of three major basins
is revealing interesting conditions in con-
nection with the possible occurrence of
petroleum.
SHIPBUILDING
Present activity at the Whyalla shipyard
is centred on the fitting out of two container
vessels and the construction of two bulk car-
riers. The former, the “Seaway Queen" and
the “Seaway King”, were launched on 19th
November and 16th January respectively.
These vessels are being built to the order of
the Australian Shipbuilding Board for the
Union Steam Ship Company of N.Z. Ltd for
service between Sydney/Melbourne and
Hobart. The building of two 21,400 ton d.w.
bulk carriers one for the Australian
National Line and the other for Bulkships
Ltd is proceeding. These vessels are sched-
uled for launching in June and November.
An invitation has been received from the
Australian Shipbuilding Board to tender for
the construction of four bulk carriers each
of 47,000 tons d.w. These vessels have been
designed at our Whyalla yard. They are re-
quired primarily for the carriage of iron ore
for the steel industry and would be far larger
than any vessels built in this country to date.
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
Activities at several subsidiaries merit men-
tion. During the period under review, sales
by Commonwealth Steel Co. Ltd. showed an
improvement of approximately 6% over the


his house, where as a bachelor who is
accident-prone, mean, and punished by
circumstances, he acts out the mechani-
cal routines with that look which one
critic has described as “a calf’s, just
struck between the eyes with a sledge-
hammer”. He’s likely to go on earning
a million bucks a year for some time,
and the ratings are still huge he’s
been in the top money spinners for
years. What is the secret of his suc-
cess?
“I’d agree that it’s being weaker than
other men obviously no one is going
to laugh at someone who wins over
others.” As a critic said, “Benny’s trick
of making himself the boob makes
every man in his audience feel 10 feet
tall.” And apart from the meanness
legend often desperately countered
by huge tips to taxi-drivers and waiters
the colorless, sad, punished hypo-
chondriac of stage, TV and screen
seems real enough at a meeting. It’s a
long way from the day when young
Benny Kubelsky’s father gave him a
monkey-wrench with his violin and said
“plumbing isn’t a bad business,” but
Benny is so self-effacing today he might
yet be the plumber.
Before we parted, Benny had a few
words to say on the reason so many
fellow Jews had been fine comedians.
“I guess it’s the centuries of persecu-
tion that have brought out the humor
in us. And it’s heart, too; the Italians
share that. Dean Martin, people say he
isn’t a comedian but he’s a wonderful
comedian. But don’t forget Jews and
Italians make great criminals too.”
And what, finally, did he think of the
“sick” comedians? “I only know of one
Lenny Bruce. No, I wouldn’t agree
Bob Newhart is one of ’em. I’ve never
seen Lenny Bruce. But he made a joke
about a man being eaten by a shark.
Now for God's sake!” The hats flurried,
the limp 70-year-old body moved for-
ward and we were out in the busy
street.
corresponding period last year. This was
achieved in spite of intensified competition
in stainless steel from Japanese and Cana-
dian manufacturers, and active interest by
British steelmakers in the railway wheel and
tyre business. Useful export business has
been transacted in the Philippines, Malaya,
Ceylon. Mozambique and Peru. An important
stage of this company’s current expansion
programme was reached with the commis-
sioning of the re-equipped railway wheel
and tyre plant. This project is designed to
increase capacity by 50% to 60%, and includes
the installation of a new rotary hearth fur-
nace and a 3,000 ton forging press. Construc-
tion work was commenced in December, 1962,
and the plant was commissioned in August,
1953.
Results of The Titan Manufacturing Co.
Pty Ltd showed a sharp improvement towards
the end of the period uhder review and it is
expected that a higher level of sales will be
maintained for the rest of the financial year.
Tungsten carbide sales have increased con-
siderably and although output has been lifted
substantially it has become necessary to
install further capacity to meet the growing
demand for this material. A contract has
been let for the erection at Newcastle of the
main building of a new tungsten carbide
plant which is scheduled for completion in
June. 1964, and productive capacity will then
be trebled. The company, through a wholly
owned subsidiary Titan New Guinea Pty
Ltd which was incorporated in the Terri-
tory of Papua and New Guinea in December,
is setting up a small nail and barbed wire
factory at Lae and it is expected that manu-
facture will commence during the latter half
of 1964.
EMPLOYMENT
Group employment remained almost con-
stant during the half-year under review at
around 44,500 and little change occurred at
individual works.
Had we been able to obtain all the men
we needed the number of employees would
have shown a marked, increase.
We are seriously short of labour at import-
ant centres and this shortage has been
accompanied by a high turnover and some
industrial disturbances. We in common with
other industries are not far from the point
where production and capital construction
will be materially affected and it is important
to note that a condition of general labour
shortage has its first and most serious effects
on industries which are established outside
the capital cities. It is to be hoped that an
expanded immigration programme will serve
to alleviate this problem.
SAFETY
Safe working continues to be a prime
Consideration of management arid some
achievements during the half-year are
worthy of note. The flat products machine
shop at Port Kembla, employing 450 men,
has achieved over three million man hours
without a lost time accident. Whyalla works
as a whole, achieved its lowest accident rate
to date during the half-year, and in the
electrical department one million man hours
were worked without a lost time accident.
HOBART SALES OFFICE
A Sales office was opened in Hobart on
4th November, 1963. This branch has been
established to facilitate the servicing of the
needs of our customers in Tasmania.
KINGS BRIDGE
Following discussions with the Premier of
Victoria, the parties concerned in the Kings
Bridge project have agreed to make an ex-
gratia contribution towards the cost of
repairing the Bridge. The Company is par-
ticipating in this payment despite the fact
that, as mentioned in the Chairman’s address
at the Annual Meeting last year, it was not
felt that the Company was at fault in any
material respect in this unfortunate occur-
rence.
AUDITORS
The Board accepted with regret the resigna-
tion of Mr. Donald M. Ferguson who expres-
sed his desire to retire as an auditor of the
Company on 31st January last. Mr. Norman
K. Baker, a senior partner of Edwin V.
Nixon & Partners has been appointed to
succeed Mr. Ferguson as Joint Auditor with
Mr. J. K. Little.
OVERSEAS VISITORS
We have been pleased to continue to receive
at our various centres of activity an in-
creasing number of prominent visitors from
other countries including North and South
America, United Kingdom, South Africa,
Japan and Russia.
Anything but Folksy
For those who don’t want to be hit with rock
By JAN SMITH
They are possibly the only folk
singers ever to have stayed at the
Chevron but its clientele need not
fear any lowering of standards. Although
Nina wore thongs at the interview, and
Frederik wears a i\eat brown beard, there
the similarities with folk singers end,
because Nina and Frederik are actually
the Baroness and Baron van Pallandt,
who, while not singing to keep up a
crumbling castle, are still very much the
sort of people to sing at Royal birthday
parties and get red-carpet treatment
from old-style hoteliers.
They did sing one song about the
bomb, and make some cutting refer-
ences to Castro and the Common
Market, but these, like the little patois
songs and romantic duets, are hardly
the kind to confront a patron in mid-
oyster, and the final comedy routine is
anything but folksy.
Before Jack Neary brought them to
Melbourne last month to begin their first
Australian tour, Nina and Frederik spent
three weeks at Hong Kong's new Man-
darin Hotel, singing much the same re-
pertoire as here to a largely European
audience.
For those who have seen Nina and
Frederik on television alternating the
ABC’s ducks on the Hawkesbury and
boats on the Pittwater fillers, it comes as
no surprise to find they are an extremely
handsome couple. “I don’t know why
we’ve been so lucky”, Nina mused.
“We’re fatalists, we never plan our lives.
If we go all out for a thing it invariably
falls through”. But looked at quite
bluntly, their luck is not so surprising,
since even if they had no talent at all,
the men could still look at Nina and the
women could still admire Frederik.
Nina talked about how it all began.
Their mothers were school-friends in
Denmark, and war and travel, mostly on
Frederik’s side, never broke the family
ties. Today the disrupting influence is
fame, and when they are not on tour
somewhere in Europe or England, Nina
and Frederik live in a flat in Frederik’s
parents’ house near Geneva.
Living in Switzerland is also handy
for tax, always a problem for interna-
tional earners, but Frederik plans to edu-
cate their two children, Nicholas, 2, and
Krisa, 5 months, in England or France,
“because Europe for me is still the centre
of the civilised world, and these are two
languages they’ll find most useful”.
Nina and Frederik worked up their
act when Frederik came home from
studying tropical agriculture at Trinidad
University, where he had formed a
calypso band. From singing over the
washing up, they moved to their friends’
living-rooms, and in 1957 presented
themselves, with a repertoire of three
numbers, for an audition at a Copen-
hagen cabaret.
A few months later they had the sort
of first night every entertainer dreams


1
%
i
11
in
In a wonderful world of fending and caring, our lovely
nurses are indeed real live angels. And every nurse you’ll
ever see always looks fresh, crisp, and neat as a pin —• thanks
to Cesarine. Used almost exclusively by every leading Hospital
in Australia, Cesarine is proud of its wonderful record of
service. Hospital uniforms take really hard wear they're
laundered frequently severely. Thanks to Cesarine, they
always look smart, stylish, fresh and crisp. Make Cesarine your
first choice for uniforms.
CAESAR FABRICS LTD.—Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Launceston
. . . SERVING AUSTRALIA UNIFORMLY
CPB3I
about: “There’d never been anything
like our act before”, Nina said.
“There’s folk singing in Denmark,
of course, but it’s usually tied up with
traditional dancing and girls in peasant
costumes, not at all the thing for a
cabaret audience. I suppose we were
tapping the big audience of people —•
not just old people, but the young mar-
rieds who didn’t want to be hit over
the head with rock”.
If Nina and Frederik are truly fata-
lists, their fantastic timing in coming
when they did must be put down to sheer
luck. They were feted throughout
Europe, given the freedom of Frederik’s
old stamping ground, Trinidad, and are
probably one of the few international
entertainers to have performed in Ice-
land. So far they haven’t tried the United
States, because Frederik thinks the man-
agement and organisation necessary
would tie them down too much and for
too long.
The English are especially fond of
them, probably because they are the
incarnation of everything one remembers
from Hans Christian Andersen, and they
have toured the country several times,
appearing with equal success at Black-
pool’s Queen Theatre and London’s
Savoy Hotel.
With their career still at its zenith they
are not planning an early retirement.
Before teaming up with Frederik, Nina
had won a scholarship to Los Angeles,
and later studied languages at the Sor-
bonne. Frederik has a flair for film
making, and collaborated with a Danish
woman director on a film called “Three’s
A Crowd,” a little-boy-in-big-city vig-
nette that was a critics’ success. He also
wrote the music.
“It wasn’t a box office success”, he
explained, “but it wasn’t intended as a
pure art film either. I think it’s irre-
sponsible to make a film if you know it
won’t make money or entertain a lot of
people. You hear a lot about films for
art’s sake, but they’re too often made on
someone else’s money, and if there’s no
hope of commercial success, I don’t
think it’s right”.
Entertainment was one thing their own
three films were not short on and Fre-
derik admitted they weren’t long on
much else. The first, “The Richest Girl
in The World”, had Nina as a Brazilian
heiress in love with a folksinger. “We
didn’t have to act much”, Frederik ex-
plained, “because the director followed
the Hitchcock idea of making new actors
move around fast we were always
fleeing from her wicked relatives so
the audience doesn’t get a chance to
linger over their acting”.
Their second film, shot in Venice by a
German company, was another box-office
success, being what Frederik unwillingly
described as “one of those films which
are all about nothing”. A third film,
again in Denmark, was a lavish Techni-
color vehicle for themselves and Louis
Armstrong. After this they turned down
any more films, including a seven-year
contract from Hecht-Hill-Lancaster be-
cause irregular shooting schedules and
general muddle interfered with their
nightclub work.
Frederik's favorite entertainer is Lena
Horne, with young Negro singer Oscar
Brown a close second. “He’s something
like Sammy Davis Junior, but he’s more
optimistic and friendly”. He marvels at
the Beatles as a phenomenon, but doesn’t
think they can sing.
“It’s interesting to see how the pattern
of star worship has changed”, Frederik
said. “I don’t think teenagers can iden-
tify themselves with just one person any
more, because however humble the star’s
beginnings, he is soon thrust so far above
the ordinary way of life that he gets
right beyond the teenager’s orbit.
“But with a group like the Beatles
it’s different because teenagers are a
group in themselves and a gang is some-
thing they can feel close to the
Beatles and us against the adult world”.


II I
WHEN YOU USE POWER, GOODYEAR MAKES WHAT YOU NEED
r z
§M
m
m
r
x;C
G-oodyear
makes ligM
of heavy loads
When you choose industrial rubber products durability
is of prime importance. Illustrated are seven striking
examples of the lasting qualities of Goodyear products.
But that is only part of the story. The
choice of a Goodyear product may
begin with many other aspects of its
use: extreme temperature conditions;
the need to withstand prolonged ex-
posure to weather; an unusual use
calling for a special design.
Goodyear meets such demands with
unrivalled world-wide experience in
industrial rubber. It comes to you
through the G.T.M. (Goodyear Tech-
nical Man). He is trained to give you
immediate, expert advice on any pro-
blem, and he is as near as your tele-
phone. When you need the answer to
a question about rubber, call him, or
write to the Goodyear branch in your
State.
BSSIigl
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS
s
am
This Goodyear V-belt delivers up to
100 horsepower, maintaining the
water supply of a W.A. town—-
frequently under heatwave condi-
tions. It’s a job calling for the
utmost reliability—the sort of job
Goodyear is chosen for.
m
Hoisting a ton of rock every minute
is a tough job, but it’s a job handled
with ease by a Goodyear Bucket
Elevator belt at this Queensland
crushing plant.
S35W*
Sr-
jr
Goodyear air hose solved the prob-
lem for one of. Australia’s largest
cement producers who wanted a hose
that could stand rugged handling
and still deliver 100% performance.
Impact after impact but never a
sign of loading dock damage. Good-
year rubber fendering protects
vehicles, too, in this 200 feet loading
dock.
m
Frequent replacement of rope mat
fenders was a costly problem until
this harbour tug was fitted with
tough, abrasion-resistant, resilient
Goodyear rubber fenders.
-if**
m
»»
Australia’s greatest sugar lift at
Mackay, Queensland, is handled by
Goodyear conveyor belts. They stand
up to the assault of 650 tons an
hour.
C264D


The new Jinn Mach 10
stripped for action
IsIJI
OURA
MACH 10
Uf ;Jl
at 175
words a minute!
m
*tVnM»tooi»im.i.i»tw
DURA
MACH 10
¥A%::¥ft:®<::x:;> : ::::::::: : :v: : : :
The Dura Mach 10 introduces a new
era of speed and sophistication in office
mechanization.
175 words a minute is by way of
saying that the new Dura Mach 10 is
the fastest automatic writing machine
in the world. The spherical typing head
makes this possible takes care of
swift language changes, too. English to
German, for instance, in 10 seconds!
Built into the unit as an integral part
is a high-speed punch and reader.
Punched paper tape or edge punched
cards, read by the machine, control the
various functions. Tabulation, carriage
return, paper feeding are completely
automatic.
The selection and capture of informa-
tion for subsequent processing is also
automatic, and completely free of all
operator decision.
Predetermined information is written
by the machine ..automatically at a
speed of 175 words per minute. Where
variable data is to be written - the
machine stops (again automatically)
and allows the operator to manually
enter this information.
Inbuilt safeguards constantly check
the manner in which the machine is
operated, thereby ensuring the validity
of data being stored for subsequent
processing.
The Dura Mach 10 is backed by Aus-
tralia-wide systcms-analysis, programm-
ing, and technical service facility.
ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (A DIVISION Op BUSINESS EQUIPMENT PTY. LIMITED)
I©
Write for free literature, or demonstration arrangements to; Electronic Computers, 408 latrobe St., Melbourne (34 6183); cnr. Walker & Berry Sts., North Sydney (92 3136)


OVERSEAS
Burma’s " Instant Socialism”
2500 political prisoners waiting for trial
From DENNIS BLOODWORTH in Rangoon
IN the furnace heat of Rangoon airport
a brilliant red and gold streamer still
welcomes Chou En-lai, for the Chi-
nese Premier has recently visited Burma
and relaxed for three days with General
Ne Win, head of Burma’s Revolutionary
Council, at Ngapali beach.
It is an immediate reminder of the
Communist giant to the north, with
which this under-developed country of
22 million disparate people shares well
over 1000 miles of frontier, and of the
Chinese forces, stationed just beyond the
border passes, which could filter into
Burma whenever Peking ordered.
This consideration alone has been
enough to persuade successive Burmese
Governments to negotiate a border
agreement with Peking, and to accept
smiling offers of friendship and a £3O
million Chinese loan that incidentally
puts the Burmese under a further obliga-
tion to Mao.
The present bid for “instant socialism”
in Burma therefore seems to many as in-
evitable as it is alarming. Since General
Ne Win seized power in March, 1962,
with his Marx-minded colonels, all banks
have been nationalised, about 70 per
cent of all trading has been taken out of
private hands, and State agencies with
names like “The People’s Bank” and
“The People’s Stores Corporation” are
assuming control of almost everything
from the Burmese Naafi to the day’s
news.
Ne Win is not a Communist, however.
He is one of several Asian leaders
plagued by post-war problems of gov-
ernment in ex-colonial territories where
“nursemaiding” by a foreign administra-
tion prevented the natural development
of a self-sufficient, responsible society.
On the one hand, corruption and in-
competence condemn to ignominious
failure any attempt to practise parlia-
mentary democracy. On the other,
Marxism attracts but also involves its
champions in an East-West contest which
could cost small, backward nations their
independence.
Ne Win seeks a third, neutral solu-
tion, the “Burmese way to socialism”,
which will marry the best principles of
the Leftists to the humanitarian tenets
of Buddhism. His final aim is civilian
government under one political organisa-
tion, his Burma Socialist Programme
Party.
Many things, from the smooth six-lane
highway that flanks the golden Shwe
Dagon pagoda to Rangoon’s record
foreign exchange reserves, already stand
to his credit, but on the whole Burma
today is at an unattractive stage of the
experiment: the eggs are already broken
but the omelette is not yet cooked.
The Revolutionary Council’s impa-
tience for socialisation has led to an ex-
plosion of State organisations to handle
all aspects of the Burmese economy with-
out sufficient preparation or trained men.
An office which was responsible for buy-
ing in 8000 baskets of rice from peasants
in 1963, for example, has been ordered
to collect nearly 250,000 baskets in 1964.
The system has no final shape yet, for
glaring gaps often appear as soon as
new bodies move into action. For the
first time since the Japanese occupation
the Burmese have suffered an acute
shortage of cooking oil, for the “People’s
Stores Corporation” that took over sales
from private enterprise forgot to order
supplies from India.
Meanwhile the 300,000 Government
servants of Burma have been frightened
into being meticulous, rather than en-
couraged to be efficient, for the military
junta plainly does not trust them. “OSD”
Army “officers on special duty” —•
control every Government department.
Private enterprise that has not been
nationalised is being systematically
squeezed out after the first £4600
of net profit, taxes take 95 per cent of
earnings. There are not more than 25
senior representatives of important Bri-
tish firms left in the country, and more
small Indian traders shut up shop in
Rangoon every week. ,r
In an atmosphere of suspicion and
xenophobia as passive yet oppressive as
the heat itself, Burmese officials accept
no invitations from foreign diplomats Tor
communities without special permission.
Rangoon University stands silent and
empty, closed since the student demon-
strations last summer, when 111 youths
were reported to have been killed.
Some 2500 political prisoners are still
being held for indefinite periods without
trial, including most of the former Cabi-
net of ex-Premier U Nu.
The Revolutionary Council can claim
with some justification that strict security
measures are necessary. Throughout the
country the Government faces armed re-
bellion from two distinct groups of Com-
munist guerrillas, and from the insurgent
armies of the Karens, Kachins, Shans
and other minorities that claim greater
autonomy for their States. In the north
the Kachins are intensifying their war
against central authority, and in some
parts of the country Rangoon’s writ does
not run more than a few miles outside
the main towns.
Ne Win has promised a major offen-
sive against the dissidents, but March is
upon him and he has not moved. Yet
the dry, campaigning season will end in
May.
The General nevertheless does not
accept Chinese offers to send in troops
to help suppress these revolts. Nor is
this the only indication of his resistance
to Communist encroachment. Ne Win
has arrested more than 1000 known
Communists and Left-wing suspects in
recent months. He has firmly broken
off negotiations with representatives from
both Communist insurgent groups, in-
cluding “White Flag” delegates sent from
Peking.
There are pro-Soviet and pro-Chinese
among Ne Win’s closest counsellors.
Russia has more long-term contract tech-
nicians in Burma, but China enjoys a
greater influence. However, the General
is still the boss, the one man who is
capable of slamming on the brakes if
socialisation jumps out of gear on the
slope. His ideal is a Burma in almost
monastic isolation, a neutral, socialist
State that works out her own formula
for salvation and stands aloof from all
foreign involvement. And with this
ambition the West might do well to be
more sympathetic. (ofns.)


il
:::
\
ttili
&
Mi?
lfp|
:
§1
II I ' '
a strong
right
arm
Peace is our prayer, our rightful hope. Yet, if faced with aggression the strength
of our industries is the strong arm of our defences. In peace, as in war, the
Dunlop Industrial Products Division supplies strategic products for Australia’s
Armed Services and those establishments that must prepare for battle.
At Woomera a guided missile wings its way. At sea, a destroyer cleaves the waves on
anti-sub. practice. In a research laboratory, tests are made on equipment for use in tropical
regions. From collapsible containers to tiny grommets, in a thousand ways —our industrial
products and accessories, all part of our daily output, are on defence duty. Dunlop products
get on with the job of defence —any job they’re fashioned for!
the more you use rubber, the more you need
DQNLO
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS DIVISION


m
mm
■a
i
mm
m
mm
.
m
dictator
needs
one!
efficient, inexpensive, foolproof dictation
Cut dictation time in half with the new
Graetz twin-track dictation system. Graetz
gives you and your staff extra time for other
work. Dub in additions or corrections with
the unique Graetz push-button track change.
Dictate at home, office, or away—Graetz is
completely portable, gives 60 minutes of
continuous dictation.
So easy for your secretary, too. Just one
simple foot control (start, stop, rewind),
and a feather-light earpiece.
Every machine carries a twelve month guar-
antee, and three months’ free service. When
you buy Graetz, you buy the world’s finest
dictation system —backed by the world’s
finest service.
Sydney: R. B. Wyper Pty. Ltd., 176 Day Street.
26 6951.
Melbourne: Wyper Boulton Pty. Ltd., 555-559
Collins Street. 62 2169.
Adelaide: Parsons & Robertson Ltd., 172 Pulteney
Street. W 1761.
Perth: Edwards Business Machines Pty. Ltd., 107-
109 Wellington Street. 23 2127.
For full details, and free illustrated brochure, contact your nearest Graetz agent:
Launceston: S. B. Hopwood & Sons Pty. Ltd., 107
George Street. 2 4731.
Newcastle: Steelbilt (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 60 Hunter
Street. B 4568.
Brisbane: Modern Dictating Systems, 530 Logan
Road, Stones Corner. 97 7C89
S. Africa’s
Treason
Trial
End of the first phase
From ANTHONY SAMPSON
in Johannesburg
The “Rivonia Trial”, in which Nelson
Mandela and nine other leaders are
charged with attempting to over-
throw the State by violent means, has
reached the end of its first phase. The
prosecution has produced its last witness,
and early next week the trial will adjourn
for some weeks, before the defence pro-
duces its case.'
There can be no question that this
is the most important trial in the stormy
history of the African opposition. The
State has produced a massive collection
of documents, most of them collected
eight months ago, when the police
raided the remote Lilliesleaf farm in
Rivonia, outside Johannesburg, and cap-
tured most of the accused.
Every day the 10 men have been led
in from Pretoria gaol, handcuffed and
surrounded by police, into the ornate
Palace of Justice in the middle of the
city. The palace is thick with police,
and spectators are watched for a sign of
a smile or a wink: the audience has
dwindled to a handful.
The accused have listened, over the
last three months, to the evidence of 174
witnesses, and the recital of 500 docu-
ments. They look remarkably calm and
undeterred: Nelson Mandela, in apparent
good health, exchanges occasional com-
ment with his neighbor, Walter Sisulu.
Black, white and Indian sit together in
& row.
With tireless enthusiasm and drama-
tic gestures Dr Percy Yutar, the eager
prosecutor, has unfolded the evidence
for his opening indictment, which claims
that the accused were plotting a war of
liberation against the Government, to be
assisted by an invasion by foreign troops.
The State has spread its net widely.
Its evidence includes three secret wit-
nesses, Mr X, Mr Y and Mr Z, who
claimed to have been working for the
liberation movement, and who gave de-
tails of training in explosives and guer-
rilla warfare.
A taxi driver described how he had
ferried 360 recruits across the Bechuana-
land border. Another witness explained
his journey to Ethiopia for training.
But what Dr Yutar describes as “the
cornerstone” of the case is a document
found at Lilliesleaf farm, outlining the


fcs
•'i^rrJSNs
.• Sr^r-nlrv
MENZIES HOTEL, MELBOURNE
Phone 60-1581
SAVOY PLAZA, MELBOURNE
Phone 62-4141
m
o
m
SPB
m
m
HAMPTON COURT, SYDNEY
Phone 31-7081
■y}<:<<>:<<'6
MENZIES MOTOR HOTEL, SYDNEY
Phone 2-0232
WKQ)
HOTEL FEDERAL, MELBOURNE
Phone 63-3721
tfJtl
LENNONS HOTEL, BRISBANE
Phone 32-0131
Your
HOTEL
RESERVATION
secured instantly through our
FREE TELEPRINTER
SERVICE
RING YOUR NEAREST FEDERAL HOTEL
and remember . . .
“the customer is always right” at
FEDERAL HOTELS
across the nation
AUSTRALIA’S LEADING HOTEL GROUP
**SS?S
«*»»**
itafc
T'*?
WREST POINT RIVIERA HOTEL
Phone 5-1021
W
S J
srFTKKWr
tl
LENNONS, GOLD COAST
Phone 9-2001
ifrjffiilWirtnuiiirli i' - '
LENNONS, TOOWOOMBA
Phone 2-2433
i s^l?
mm
rr
saw
HOTEL AUSTRALIA, ADELAIDE
In association with Federal Hotels
Phone 6-8581
5754
secret “operation Mayibuye” (Come
back ).
The document explains the necessity
of violence, and outlines a scheme of
revolution in which four groups of 30
men each were to be landed by sea. They
would then be joined by an internal force
of 7000 guerrillas. The combined force
would begin a “massive onslaught on
selected targets”.
But the prosecution has not managed
to sustain one important part of the in-
dictment that the accused were part of
an international Communist conspiracy,
rooted abroad. In fact, the evidence
has suggested that, although members of
the Communist Party were involved, the
revolutionary plan was essentially a
home-grown affair; and that the expected
military and financial support was to
come largely from other African States.
The trial has been properly conducted.
Much of the evidence was obtained after
relentless interrogation of captured men
during 90-day detentions in solitary con-
finement: but the documentation has
been thorough, including a diary kept
by Mandela. The judge, Mr Justice
Quartus de Wet, has been scrupulously
fair.
The defence lawyers, led by Mr Bram
Fischer and Mr Vernon Berrange, two
of the most brilliant and courageous of
the breed of Left-wing Johannesburg bar-
risters, are now going through the piles
of documents and considering their
tactics. From the defence cross-exami-
nation it seems likely that some import-
ant parts of the evidence may not be
disputed. It is also probable that one
or two of the accused will explain why
they have taken their stand.
The charges, if proven, can carry with
them the death sentence; therefore a
real possibility exists that some of the
accused, including Mandela, could be
hanged.
If this were to happen, it would have
very large repercussions. It would pro-
duce the first African martyrs. It would
make the conscience of America and Bri-
tain where Mandela enjoys great per-
sonal prestige much more uncomfort-
able. And it would proclaim more
clearly that South Africa is now in a
state of war.
But whatever the verdict, it is clear
that the trial will be a landmark in the
African political movement: for it is
unlikely that Mandela will want to refute
the charge that he has resorted to violent
means.
The contrast with the treason trial
which ended three years ago, and which
involved most of the Rivonia accused,
is complete: for that marked the last
stage of the non-violent movement.
OFNS. i


FORUM
The Great Dead King
An appraisal of Archbishop Mannix
By VINCENT BUCKLEY
As every commentator has told us,
the death of Archbishop Mannix
signals the end of an era. The
stale cliche conceals a useful distinction:
if his death is a crucial event, it is not
because it will introduce a reversal of
his policies (after all, what policies?)
but because it has a symbolic relation to
forces already moving, changes already
under way, in the Australian Church.
Naturally, when so great a man dies,
the secular commentator will think in
terms of changes in policy, the abandon-
ment of an old line and the setting of
a new, because he sees the Church
chiefly as a socio-political entity, almost
a pressure-group; and he will tend to
see the disagreements of Bishops as dis-
agreements on how the pressure is to
be exerted. For much of the time and
in most ways he will be wrong.
The Church itself is largely respon-
sible for the mistake. It has been so
successful in projecting an image of a
united, monolithic, benevolently authori-
tarian organisation that people naturally
expect any changes that occur to spread
from the top down, and to be the result
of careful calculation.
This widespread image has led to the
popular view of Pope John XXIII, the
view of a man so outstanding that he
has accomplished a world-wide revolu-
tion in Catholic attitudes. When Rome
sneezes, five hundred million Catholic
handkerchiefs are opened.
It is, at best, a quarter-truth. So many
of those noses never get blown; and
Rome is often among the last to sneeze.
Pope John was a great and saintly man,
but not because he was able to swing
the whole Church behind his personal
initiatives; he was more the agent than
the creator of the forces to which he
gave such varied and noble expression.
The same is true of Archbishop Mannix.
The Australian Church has perhaps
never had so commanding a personality,
so evident a leader; but he represented
rather than initiated the forces with
which history will identify him. So,
while his life and death are both symbols,
signs, they are signs less of his personal
achievement than of the current state,
activity, and life of the Church.
To say this is not to diminish him.
Personally, I often disagreed strongly
with his attitudes, and was on one
occasion (so people said) publicly re-
buked by him, in that oblique and ironic
way which he favored; yet I revered
him. One does not lead only by urging
or pushing; one may do it by stepping
into the open to speak for others.
The forces which Archbishop Mannix
represented were, first, those of the Irish
dispersion, climbing aggressively in a
society from which they felt a certain
alienation, and, second, the forces of a
more internationally-minded middle-
class, stabilising itself in that matrix only
to grow away from it (see Matthew
Vaughan: Bulletin, Nov. 30, 1963).
And like other great Irishmen before
him, he maintained a temper “realist,”
unillusioned, ironic, perhaps lonely and
melancholy, which separated him from
those who idolised him. It was the
temper of the lonely aristocrat. And
while it kept him a man apart, his life-
span enabled him to outlive, by twenty
years, the forces which he symbolised.
It is, of course, less simple than that.
It is well-known that, during the Move-
ment days (say, 1942-63), there were
forces in the Church opposed to his
quasi-political policies: among them, the
Young Christian Workers, the Catholic
Worker, the groups at Melbourne and
(later) Sydney universities. And it is
known that their growth was harmed
by his patronage of the Movement,
which at one stage actually insisted that
it was a special and overriding kind of
apostolate. Yet the insistence was not
his; in a way, these groups were victims
of his permissiveness, not of his dog-
matism. He clearly had his preferences,
yet tried not to turn them into admini-
strative decisions. And, where a dozen
very different flowers are allowed to
bloom, in the short term the most
activist and opportunist of them is likely
to flourish at the expense of the others.
His liberality, therefore, had a good
side and a bad: if he was, by Australian
standards, remarkably open-hearted,
permissive, humane, and free of the vice
of clericalism, he was also prone to that


SELECTIVE VIEWING AND LISTENING
High C for Mario When Puccini's “Tosca” takes the air this year
on ABC, La Scala star Nicola Filacuridi will play the role of ill-fated Mario Cavaradossi.
But it will be hundreds of man-hours away from the ABC studio rehearsal photograph you
see here. Why does the ABC spend so much time and energy in producing opera to world
standards? Is it justified in appeal? The ABC and thinking viewers and listeners say “yes!”
Grand Opera is part of the ABC's national policy of Selective Programming. Here are
specific programs presented with specific audiences in mind. And, particularly in the case
of Grand Opera, dramatic audience ratings are proof that such a program policy meets a.
vital need in Australia. Selective Programming takes many other forms besides opera.
Penetrating documentaries. Provocative drama. Sophisticated humour. News. Forums
that allow minorities to give their points of view. Often, because of their timeliness, they
are last-minute additions. Watch your program guides carefully and help yourself to new
and stimulating TV viewing and radio
listening.
THE NATIONAL TELEVISION AND RADIO SERVICE
m ■
i
%*
'
AI»M|
* *-vvs?
IE
A8C2.(85)


SEVEN TO TEN YEARS
UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES
TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
7
FIVE TO SIX YEARS
7%
pa.
THREE TO FOUR YEARS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Reginald Myles Ansett (Chairman & Managing
Director), Raymont Moore, Air Marshal Sir George
Jones, Joseph Noel Lord, Sir Douglas Berry
Applications can be accepted only on the printed form
attached to the Prospectus which can be obtained direct
from
* Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
* Ansett Transport Industries, 129 Philiip St., Sydney.
" Any branch of the English. Scottish and Australian
Bank Ltd.
’ Any branch of the Australia & New Zealand Bank Ltd.
ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LTD.
129 Phillip St., Sydney. Ph. 2 0364 TB2B/14/3
Please send me a copy of your 8% Prospectus.
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
T5/VI73Z/I6
blend of activism and other worldliness
which has often typified the older style
of Catholicism, in the France of Dreyfus
and the Ireland of Parnell as much as in
the Australia of the early 1900 s. Such a
complex attitude allowed the pursuit of
realpolhik in the interests of an over-
rarified notion of “the spiritual” and of
“the Church’s interests.” Even two or
three years ago, Mr Santamaria was
enunciating a version of it. It is the atti-
tude of a group which is in some ways
too much, in other ways too little, at
home in the contemporary world.
For several years, it was the Australian
orthodoxy. But the other groups con-
tinued to grow, independent of Arch-
bishop Mannix’s initiative, according to
a sense of priorities very different from
his, and even, at times, against his per-
sonal wishes. He made no attempt to
cut them back; all flowers might grow if
their soil were rich enough. Whatever
his wishes, they seldom became com-
mands. He was no Duke of Ferrara, and
he would have presented Browning with
a subtler problem of interpretation than
the psychopath of “My Last Duchess”.
Of course, timid underlings are
always ready to convert a strong man’s
frown into an imperative, and a lift of
the eyebrows into a veto directed against
their opponents. The “Catholic Worker”
suffered as a result of just such a nervous
habit. There is no evidence that the
Archbishop himself despised the men
who transmitted orders he had never
given; but it is certain that he responded
most to men who took their own initia-
tives and followed them; Mr Santa-
maria is an outstanding example.
Mannix’s personal great-
ness went far beyond the forces he
symbolised. His individuality was both
impressive and appealing. A leading Aus-
tralian poet (a non-Catholic) has
mentioned that the most awesome thing
that ever happened to him was finding
the Archbishop's striding figure looming
over him at a corner of Studley Park
Road; yet the beachcombers of Fitzroy
did not go in awe of him. I was by no
means an intimate of his, but for me
three memories stand out.
The first was of his humor, a humor
gentle, courteous, beautifully timed,
based on an intense awareness of vanitas
vanitatum, in which an unillusioned
mockery at the world's ways coiled back
in a self-mockery that added to rather
than threatened his authority. It was a
technique of the multiple double-take.
On one occasion, he was speaking of
a young American from (let us say)
Wichita, who had taken it into his head
to visit the Archbishop, while his mate
had preferred to go to the zoo. “I said to
him, ‘Well, at least you preferred me to
the zoo. Did you learn of me in, ah,
Wichita?’ ‘No,’ he said, ‘I had never
heard of you in my life before the other
day.’ Naturally 1 was a little annoyed
at this; so I said, ‘Well, you will not
notice the Melbourne newspapers being
very much concerned with the doings of
Wichita!’ ” The anecdote completed,
there came a small sigh, less of smugness
than of the melancholic Irish charm; the
hands frailly twined. A point had been
made, not about the archiepiscopal wit,
but about the nature of life.
A revealing sidelight is thrown on this
trait by something which Peter Hastings
records (The Bulletin, 16/4/63):
How did it feel, I asked, at the end
of a long life to look back on so many
events and so many achievements?
“Achievements? There are many
things I have not achieved. I have not
baptised a person, I have never mar-
ried anyone, I have never given the
Last Rites or administered Extreme
Unction.” Santamaria broke in. “Your
Grace has baptised at least one person.


V
Airtemp
breathes the
k
k
of success
All over Australia Chrysler Airtemp Air Conditoning is busy
creating a comfortable controlled climate . . . millions of cubic
feet of it. In homes and businesses everywhere, people work
better, feel better, live better because Airtemp means
instant comfort . . . sure success.
If you haven’t done so already, why not take a long look ahead at
Chrysler Air Conditioning with your State Distributor?
He is listed at the extreme right.
HRYSLER
P*
►
M
P
A
RT
CONDITIONING
AND
HOMES
BUSINESS
INDUSTRY
AIR
HEATING
FOR
AND
AIRTEMP DIVISION
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIA LTD
Q’LD.i Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 620 Sta nley
St., Woolloongabba. Phone 4 2941.
N.S.W.: Strataflo Pty. Ltd., Cnr. Parramatta Rd. and
Barr St., Camperdown. Phone 51 6645.
A.C.T.: A.C.T. Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd., 14 Yallourn
St., Fyshwick. Phone 9 0081.
VIC.: Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 291 Moray St.,
S. Melbourne. Phone 69 7114.
S.A.: Chrysler Australia Limited, Airtemp Division,
Finsbury. Phone 45 3661.
W.A.: Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd., 657 Murray St., Perth,
Phone 23 2214.
CM63


THEY DON’T NEED IT
BUT WE GUARANTEE
THEM JUST THE SAME!
If you could see the tests we subject our chairs to you’d
probably be amazed. We pound them with 12 stone
weights for hours and hours; we throw them around
we even boil them! But just in case an elephant
should run riot on your premises within the next ten
years we guarantee them against any structural
fault for just that long. You sit on them
we stand by them.
m
Chair-mart.
The “Celebrity”, from the range
of 20 Sebel Chairs every one
well designed and sturdily made
for specific seating purposes in
clubs, halls, hotels, etc.
EHEUi
Ml
N.S.W.: Sebels (Aust.) Ltd., 96 Canterbury Road, Bankstown. Phone 70-0771.
VIC.: Sebel Sales Ltd., 151 Dandenong Rd., Windsor, S.l. Phone 51-7063.
OLD.: Sebel Sales Ltd., 208 Wharf Street, Brisbane. Phone 2-6963. S.A.: Evans
Agencies Ltd., 9 Linden Lane, Adelaide. Phone 8-1038. W.A.: Carlyle & Co. (1959)
pty. Ltd., 1-9 Milligan St., Perth. Phone 21-9331. TAS.: NU Sales Distributors,
Merino St., Launceston. Phone 4-9886.
5E2.65855C.N
YOUR GARAGE
DESERVES GENUINE
i-nil
‘FLOATING ACTION’ garage door fittings
From Hardware stores everywhere r. 154/2
My second child.” The Archbishop
looked up sharply and sighed. “That
is so. I had forgotten that.”
There could hardly be a more
poignant evidence of his position. His
whole stance was a comment on the
human condition.
On another occasion, he was in in-
terrogative mood: “I believe you have
views on how to save Asia?” “Yes, your
Grace.” “And do you really believe that
these measures will be of lasting benefit?”
“I hope so, your Grace.” A small sigh
(of amusement? weariness?). “When you
get to my age, you may come to agree
that such things cannot be completely
changed, but only patched up.” Longish
pause. “Yes, your Grace, but it may be
that the patches will stick only if we
try to do a great deal more than patch.”
His laughter was full of disbelief.
Another time. It was at the height of
the Movement controversy in the Church,
though long before the 1954 split. For
some reason which I now forget, I was
one of the many Catholics in the Move-
ment’s black books. After some oblique
but tart-sounding comment from the
Archbishop, I tentatively mentioned this:
“Your Grace may have heard it said
that I am not a faithful Catholic.” A
sigh, a pause. “I never form an opinion
about a man without hearing his side of
the affair.” Nothing more was said until,
half an hour later, as I rose to leave, he
reverted to the subject. With one hand
on my shoulder, “If you are ever
attacked, as you think unfairly, come to
me. I will see you are not wronged.”
God knows what he meant; he could
not have thought that I would really
carry complaints to him; it was a piece
of gratuitous reassurance offered to an
isolated and unimportant youth. No
wonder I revered him.
big question is not how Arch-
-*■ bishop Simonds will fill those shoes;
he has his own shoes to fill. The question
is, rather, what situation he has inherited,
what state the Australian Church is now
in, and what forces are rising to domin-
ance within it. Nor should that domin-
ance be seen only in socio-political
terms, but in cultural terms, but in
cultural and theological ones. Mr Santa-
maria, as we know, is already falling
back on prepared positions; and the in-
stitutional support (much less than is
generally supposed) which he has
enjoyed in recent years has been enjoyed
as a temporary luxury. He is bound to
lose most of it, but it remains to be seen
how much the loss affects his political
effectiveness. The important issue is of
quite a different sort.
Over the past ten years, initiative has
been growing in the Australian Church.
It pre-dates the “split,” and it is hardly,
if at all, political. Catholics have learnt
a lot in the last two decades about the
implications of their religion, the nature
of their society, and the extent of their
freedom; and what they have learnt
from other sources has been, paradoxi-
cally, endorsed by the events of the
Movement fracas.
Our education in all these matters has
been helped by our growing social diver-
sification. This has given a practical basis
to our new passion for personal freedom
and personal initiative. At the same time,
it has given impetus to the opposite
qualities, conformism, desire for social
and intellectual respectability, preoccupa-
tion with being liked; and it has given
a certain plausibility to the many “theo-
logical” rationalisations which people
produce of those very human desires.
Such ideas fall on muddy ground. And
Archbishop Mannix’s death came at a
moment when the two tendencies were in
a state of first great tension.
In facing those problems, and trying
to resolve that tension, Victoria will
probably continue to be the key state,
and the intellectuals will certainly con-
tinue to be the key group. But Victoria
is tired of the attrition of the past twenty
years, and the intellectuals are probably
more exasperatedly confused than any-
one else by the complexities of their
present situation not in the Church,


ggigr v
;
m
|«5
«'V .
m
m
sr*
.. *„ V /
: \ / >'Jk.
For you . . .
only the best
ASAHI
Here's the camera that is the ultimate choice
of discriminating professional and enthusiastic
amateur photographers all over the world; the
camera that brings you picture perfection
and personal prestige.
Asahi PENTAX introduces you to a new world
of photographic delight! A wide choice of
incomparable Takumar lenses and a full range
of accessories puts you in command of every
photographic situation.
Asahi PENTAX SV with f/1.8 Takumar
Lens and E.R. case. £9O/0/0.
Asahi PENTAX S.I.A. with Auto Super
Takumar f/2 Lens and E.R. case,
£75/0/0.
Ask to see Asahi PENTAX at YOUR photo
dealer.
C. 957
HELP
LEGACY
all the year
round
where there are reasons for profound
hope, but in Australian society as a
whole, where the effectiveness of Chris-
tian intellectuals has never been less
evident. Particularly among intellectuals,
the arrogant conviction of intellectual
rightness which a man like Belloc had
seems to be in course of replacement by
a deferential conviction of moral
righteousness even self-righteousness.
Like Burns’ “holy Willie,” we too easily
convince ourselves that we are:
A burnin’ and a shinin’ light
to a this place.
But the light is more cosy
than searching.
The anxiety to conform is not just the
product of a desire to be liked, it is
also the product of a desire to prove
before the world our own rightness, even
superiority. Peasant credulity has been
replaced by a modernity, even an
urbanity, of thought. The older
amateurism (flamboyant, inaccurate,
aggressive) has been replaced by a dourly
amenable professionalism.
In assessing these developments, the
Communists are, as usual, perceptive
within their narrow limits; but, since
hard thinking is not their forte, they are,
as usual, stronger on the base than on the
superstructure. So Geoff Sharp says
(“Arena”, No. 2.):
The pluralist trend among Catholic
intellectuals, though, has stepped out-
side the framework of the earlier
mentality. Many of them are products
of the surge of upward class mobility
among Catholics, but they have
travelled further than most. The older
social form of Catholicism contradicts
the intellectual demands of their work
situations. For some, it contradicts
their status aspirations, too . . .
It is a shrewd assessment, and a
shrewd final hit. The new “pluralist”
thinking has indeed its virtues: it is
rooted in theological rather than
devotional thinking, it prefers facts to
legends, it makes men ready for dialogue
rather than polemic, and it has its eye
on the salvation of the world, not just
a few special souls. But it does, as I say,
run, despite itself, to conformism. Many
a man has set out to be “incarnated”
and ended by being conned. Being-liked
becomes a habit. Archbishop Mannix
didn't seem to share it; but, then, he was
already an old man when likeableness
became the fashion. The opportunity, and
the problem, have been bequeathed to
Archbishop Simonds.
Some Catholic intellectuals have no
reservations about recent developments;
they are frankly delighted. To them, the
Church seemed for a long time like Dr
Johnson's lady-preacher: the marvel was
not that she lived in the modern world
so well, but that she lived in it at all.
Now, she seems to have bought shares
in the venture. In that fact, so people
think, lies the hope of her renewal.
T think it lies elsewhere. An affluent
middle-class (and especially a new
one) is not built for heroism. If there are
exciting days for Christianity, the excite-
ment comes not from the fact that the
Catholic New Look is widely admired,
but from the fact that a theological re-
newal is leading to a spiritual one. But
that renewal will be valuable only if it
prepares Christians for a new (and un-
foreseen) challenge to heroism; it can
hardly afford to lead merely to the satis-
factions of having arrived where we
should have been all along: at the centre
of actual human ventures.
The Vatican Council is vibrating with
this excitement. As Fr Purdy says in his
recent Suhard pamphlet:
... the (Liturgy) decree is a monu-
ment to the power of a general council
to accelerate the speed of reform,
giving the highest official expression,
doctrinal and practical, to ideas which
had spread before only slowly and
laboriously . . . The bishops, at last
voting the whole with virtual un-
animity, felt themselves the voice of
the Church. The infallible Pope, who
had taken no part in the voting though
he had been there as an archbishop
during the debates, signed the
decree . . .
The “voice of the Church” which has
been echoing in the Council, has been
for years heard in Australia, as else-
where, making a small but urgent sound.
Now it will be heard more loudly,
though no doubt from some unexpected
quarters. The onus will be on a few
bishops to see that it doesn't settle down
to the rehearsal of a new orthodoxy, or
to a singing of the tune which has become
sweet only because it is “official”. But
the onus will be even more, perhaps, on
groups of priests and laymen; in the
modern situation, while authority rests
with the bishops, initiative doesn’t, and
could hardly be expected to. As a Sydney
priest said recently, we have left the
Constantinian era and are now in the
communal one. It can be as exciting a
time for bishops as for everyone else;
but you have to be young at heart to
feel the excitement.


letters
to the
editor
TIMOR
Sir,
I read with natural interest the article
on Portuguese Timor by R. Raymond,
“Timor Sleeping Island” (29/2/64),
and I would like to have the opportunity
of making some comments on it.
First of all, the question of the visas
for Portuguese Timor. I did not suggest
to Mr Raymond that he should come to
Canberra to see me when he applied at
the Portuguese Consulate in Sydney for
a visa, but my house is always open to
any members of the Australian Press,
Radio or TV who wish to talk with me
on any subject. On learning of Mr Ray-
mond’s interest in coming to Canberra,
accompanied by Mr Desmond Mahon of
the 2SM radio station, to meet me, I
was only too pleased, therefore, at the
possibility of an exchange of views with
them.
Mr Raymond says he was not “very
hopeful” that he would get permission
to go to Portuguese Timor, since the
ABC “had been waiting for nearly two
years for visas” for that purpose. Now,
the granting of visas to the ABC was
approved by the relevant Portuguese
authorities about two months after the
request, as usual. And the communica-
tion to the ABC of that fact was imme-
diately made, that is, in early March last
year. Ido not know why, after all, the
ABC team never left.
I can appreciate Mr Raymond’s at-
tempts to publicise his article and TV
film on Portuguese Timor, with a view
to surrounding them with an atmosphere
of expectation. (As a matter of fact he
went so far in this way as to state to an
influential Sydney paper that to obtain
the visas he was obliged to make rep-
resentations to the Portuguese Prime
Minister, which is not true.) Simply, the
facts he implies or states are not ac-
curate.
As to the subject matter of his article,
I am not going to indulge in a discussion
of the policies of my Government regard-
ing the Portuguese overseas provinces.
But I cannot help commenting on his
remark about “the war which Portugal
insists on waging in Angola”. It is
strange to hear this, as we think Portugal
is limiting herself in Angola to defend
the territory against the raids of terro-
rists who, equipped with armaments sup-
plied by Algeria, Tunisia, Ghana and
some European Communist countries,
cross the border, coming from military
bases established in the Congo.
What if I were to say (and I am
not saying anything, neither could I say,
since Portugal is strictly neutral in these
issues) that Australia is insisting on help-
ing the United States to wage war in
South Vietnam or preparing herself to
wage war in Malaysia?
With regard to Portuguese Timor, I
can easily prove the lack of foundation
of most of Mr Raymond's assertions. He
says that “the budget of Timor is ( . . . )
less than £1.5 million per year, for a
population of H million”, and that Por-
tugal has “a budget of its own which is
only equal to that of Queensland”. Now,
unfortunately I do not have available in
the Embassy data on the Timorese bud-
get. But I can correct Mr Raymond in
two things: firstly, the population of
Portuguese Timor does not even reach
half a million, according to the last
census (taken in 1959); secondly, I see
in the Year Book of the Commonwealth
of Australia (1963) that the total ex-
penditures of Queensland in 1960-61
amounted to a little over £27 million,
while the total Portuguese expenditures
in the last few years had amounted to
a sum equivalent to over £230 million.
In view of these mistakes of Mr Ray-
mond, I should make all the reservations
as to the figures produced by him regard-
ing the Timorese budget.
He affirms that some interests in Lis-
bon prevent the placing of Timorese
coffee in the world market, and notably
in Australia, because of its low price,
when the reality is just the opposite. The
Portuguese Government has always been
most interested in placing the Timorese
coffee in Australia but the cost of its
transportation on foreign ships trom Dili
to South-east Australia is so high that
the coffee could not be competitive in
Australia. It used to go, therefore, to
Singapore, from where it proceeded to
Europe, especially Germany. To over-
come these difficulties the Portuguese
Government recently purchased a ship
for the service of the territory, which
came a few weeks ago for the first time
to Sydney with a cargo of coffee. We
hope that these shipments could go on.
It is ironic to blame Lisbon for the lack
of Timorese coffee in Australia when
Lisbon has been developing its best ef-
forts towards placing it in the Australian
market.
He claims that the deportados are so
numerous in Timor “that they ought to
form, when the idea of adult suffrage
finally reaches there, a formidable voting
block”. Now, in the first place, local
elections have been held regularly in
Portuguese Timor, and, in the second
place, the former deportados who now
live freely in the territory (at present
there are no deportados in Portuguese
Timor) can be counted by the fingers of
one’s hand. They were sent there as
long as 35 years ago, deciding after
serving their sentences to remain in the
territory because in the meantime they
had acquired prosperous situations.
He speaks of the PIDE as though
there was all over the territory a sort of
“shadow” represented by its invisible
power, but goes on to say that the
PIDE operates there with four men and
a girl (including its chief). Now, the
duties of the PIDE (whose denomination
in English would be International and
State Defence Police) embrace, besides
■ the security of the State, functions equi-
valent to those which in Australia are
performed by the immigration author-
ities. That figure, therefore, can hardly
be considered as high. Besides, Mr Ray-
mond himself gives in his article some
examples which prove very clearly that
the PIDE has not in Timor, as it has
not in the other parts of Portugal, more
power than any other Portuguese govern-
ment body. I deny categorically that the
PIDE has “powers of arrest and deten-
tion without trial”.
He refers to “massacres” in Timor
during World War II which never occur-
red (in fact, the local population co-
operated very generously with both the
Australian soldiers and the Portuguese
civilians who fought the Japanese), draws
conclusions from the fact that a Goan-
ese chefe de posto refused for obvious
reasons to talk politics with him, and so
on.
I think, however, that what I said is
enough to demonstrate both the light-
ness and the preconceived character of
the opinions displayed by Mr Raymond
in his article.
I. REEELLO DE ANDRADE
Charge d’Affaires of Portugal.
Portuguese Embassy,
Canberra (ACT).
“LOLITA”
Sir,
Concerning Dr Brissenden setting the
banned book “Lolita” as a text-book for
his students, I would like to question
very seriously the assumption that it is
a praiseworthy action to “take a stand
on literary censorship”. It has become
fashionable among intellectuals to advo-
cate freedom from all forms of censor-
ship as an encouragement to great
writing. “If a man cannot write as he
pleases, he is hampered in the pursuit of
realism” is the theory.
One author of distinction, Sir Arnold
Lunn, in a recent book (“The New Mora-
lity”, by Lunn and Lean, Blandford
Press) speaks of the restraints which
were imposed on writers earlier this cen-
tury. These “restraints . . . proved a
far more exacting test of technique than
the mere tape-recording of bawdy talk or
the photographic description of the de-
tails of sex. Surely it is inconsistent to
condemn photographic naturalism in the
art of painting and applaud it in the art
of writing”.
Literary merit apart, there are other
aspects to be weighed before we decide
in favor of lifting all curbs on literary
censorship. The relaxation of censorship
in Britain has been marked by a tre-


JET
BEA
~S. ~* T
WITHIN
EUROPE
mm
Unparalleled ... no other airline serves
the major cities of Europe with such
frequency as BEA ... no other airline
offers such a modern fleet: Viscount, Van-
guard, Comet 4B (and with Europe’s spring
comes the Trident) ... no other airline
carries more passengers to more European
cities.
Ask your travel agent how you can use
PEA’s vast network to stopover throughout
the length and breadth of Europe at little
or no extra fare. Then fly Europe’s Fore-
most Airline . . .
BEA
BRITISH EUROPEAN AIRWAYS
General Sales Agents in Australia
Qantas Empire Airways.
” 8EA5a.102 J
mendous increase in books whose char-
acters are depicted rooting around in a
muck-heap of perversion and sexual ex-
periments. One begins to wonder what
is “queer” and what is “normal”. Authors
feel that they must tickle the palate of
readers more and more, if they want to
sell their books.
The advocates of unlimited freedom
are so intent on the pursuit of their ob-
jective that they disregard its dangerous
fruits. Literary censorship, if rightly
administered, can play an important part
in maintaining the moral standards so
fundamental to our national character.
But if the present trend to decadence is
allowed to continue, we shall not long
have the strength to defend our freedom.
E. COFFEY
Surrey Hills (Vic.).
“THE LIPPMANN LINE”
Sir,
Your editorial, “The Lippmann Line”
(15/2/64), put my mind at rest. Having
arrived recently in this country, I had
become increasingly concerned with the
reaction of the Australians to de Gaulle’s
actions. It is obvious to anyone who
makes a study of world events that his
policy is less the so-called recognition
of realities than the endeavor, by split-
ting the Allies, to recreate France’s
power. As you quite correctly state, he
does this in areas not affecting France’s
security at all, where he can only derive
benefit and at worse suffer a loss of face.
The Leader of the Opposition has
made a statement demanding recognition
of Red China, with arguments that may
convince the innocent but not anyone
who has broader experience and know-
ledge of the Communist way of doing
things.
It is frightening that Red China has
now become the fourth best customer
of Australian exports. I wonder whether
businessmen and politicians realise what
might happen if the position is allowed
to continue and improve, with the pos-
sible result of the Chinese Government
threatening to cut off all trade if Austra-
lia does not submit to certain conditions.
Trade with Cuba is another matter in
which the public is completely misin-
formed. The Cuban Government, im-
posed by force, is actively trying to start
revolutions in other South American
countries. The recent discovery of arms
in Venezuela is the final proof. But
those who advocate trade at any cost
forget that in 1941 the Japanese must
have used many arms or strategic
materials supplied by the Allied countries
to fight their aggressive war, and that
Hitler could have been stopped had it
not been for trade. Are we therefore
to assume that traders will shed all moral
responsibilities and, for the sake of im-
mediate profits, allow dictatorial govern-
ments to entrench themselves always at
the cost of human lives, and disregarding
human rights?
I hope that your editorial will find an
echo and that a way may be found to
permit the Australian public to be bet-
ter informed about what happens out-
side their wonderfully democratic and
well-organised country, which is the best
example to many nations of .how a free
and decent society can best benefit all
its people.
PETER FRANKEL
Melbourne (Vic.).
Sir,
I was really glad to read your leading
article on “The Lippmann Line”. A
couple of years ago, a monthly
published in Australia carried an
article by the noted US author W. H.
Chamberlain, which was a most devasta-
ting attack on Lippman, whose obiter
dicta are accepted by many Australians
as next to Holy Writ. Since reading it,
I have never wasted another minute on
any of Lippmann’s effusions.
Fortunately, Lippmann’s stocks in the
US State Department are low, as they
are with many thinking Americans. But
two of our most influential dailies con-
tinue to publish his articles, unfortu-
nately for us.
DOUGLAS C. TILGHMAN
Berry (NSW).
Sir,
At last, and to my knowledge for the
first time, one Australian journal— The
Bulletin has put commentator
Walter Lippmann under the spot-
light and exposed his unreliable analyses,
which on occasions have been a straight-
forward support of the Communist bloc
countries’ cause. No wonder that some
time ago Mr Lippmann, with three other
Western correspondents, were mentioned
in the Communist bloc Press for their
“unbiased and realistic approach” to
crucial world problems.
FRANCIS HRUBOS
Glen Forest ( WA ).
FOLK SINGING
Sir,
Allow me to thank Mr Sebastian Jor-
gensen for devoting so much space to
the pros and cons of my ability as a folk
singer in his article “The Truth About
Folk Songs” (15/2/64). Apart from
many points well put, he has helped dis-
pel, to those who may have read it, any
ideas that I may have fallen victim to
the current self-conscious, peas-in-the-
pod “purist” folk song movement. I
sing my folk songs in the way that I feel
them for everybody’s enjoyment and not
in the manner that some of the “purists”
would have me do.
Mr Jorgensen may be interested to
know that after recording a short series
of Australian folk songs for the ABC to
be broadcast in the major countries of
the world, I received an invitation from
Prague Radio to send all of my recorded
Australian material to them, as they
wanted to feature a special programme.
It was broadcast to many countries in
Europe including Hungary, Poland,
Czechoslovakia and Russia last January,
and proved an immediate success. They
have now asked me to do a series. But
the greatest compliment and honor came
when, by mail, they asked me to record
some of their own indigenous folk music.


:::'NV
&
HH
.
.*”•
2AM
Tut su-i
SI
B ** S *»^»
e °Ge s
His cigarette, too,
has a proud pedigree
Benson & Hedges Special Filter was once available only on blue-ribbon jet
flights between London and New York. Today, the cigarette has travelled,
and you too can enjoy its excellence. Benson & Hedges Special Filter, in the
elegant gold packet, is the right cigarette when only the best will do. And
isn’t that all the time?
Benson aU Hedges
8H39.3.64
I shall humbly and enthusiastically ac-
cept the offer.
Once again allow me to thank Mr
Jorgensen. A little constructive criticism
never did go astray, but might I suggest
that in future he examine the facts of his
subject more carefully without being
tempted to be influenced by his own slan-
ted opinion, and also that he try giving
credit where due.
LIONEL LONG
Sydney (NSW).
DEFENCE FORCES’ WELFARE
Sir,
With reference to the article “An
Armed Services Trade Union”, by
Richard Hall (22/2/64), I should like to
make clear the position of the Regular
Defence Forces Welfare Association in
this matter. The juxtaposition of para-
graphs in the article may give rise to an
incorrect interpretation of the role of our
Association.
Neither the officers of the Association,
nor officers of the Federal Executive and
the six State branch executives subscribe
to the view that this Association is in any
way a “Services trade union”. The
Association is composed of all ranks, the
serving members being permitted to join
under approvals promulgated by the re-
spective Services Boards.
While the Association is proud to be
able to claim that it has assisted a not
inconsiderable number of its members
and others, past or present members of
the Services, or dependants, this is only
a part of the Association’s activities.
Recognising the need for full loyalty
within the Armed Services, the Associa-
tion assists serving members by advice
as to the proper action to be taken in any
matter using the normal Service channels.
The Association also takes action on re-
presentations by dependants of past and
present serving personnel.
As regards ex-members of the Ser-
vices, the Association forwarded a sub-
mission to the Federal Treasurer, Mr H.
Holt, setting out a sample of the major
anomalies which exist in the Defence
Forces Retirement Benefits Act. At the
last Budget the Government implemented
one of the items in the submission, that
referring to pensions of ex-members of
the Services. The Government also in-
cluded in the DFRB Amending Act some
clauses for which no request was made,
and these are at present under considera-
tion by the Federal Executive of the
Association.
It remains to be pointed out that there
can be no valid adverse criticism of the
public servants who administer the
DFRB Act as long as the Act remains in
its present obtuse form. We have in fact
received valuable assistance from the
public servants responsible for admini-
stering the Act and also from the Super-
annuated Commonwealth Officers’ Asso-
ciation. However, strong criticism can
be levelled with full justification in the
knowledge of more than 100 anomalies
which have arisen under the operation of
the DFRB Act. In these circumstances


IcSfalz
rui
mm
u
L
m
*r~
ON THE JOB, ON THE FARM
“GELOSO”
AMPLIVOICE
TRANSISTORISED
POWER MEGAPHONE
Use either as public address system with
microphone, or as loud hailer. Operates from
torch batteries. Range up to 1000 yards.
Unbreakable, weatherproof. Weight 3V2 lbs.
£35.15.0 post free.
AGENTS: R. H. CUNNINGHAM PTY. LTD.
8 Bromham Place, Richmond, Vic. 29 Gibbs St.,
Chafswood, N.S.W. 33 Bowen St., Brisbane, Qld.
King's Place, Perth, W.A.
CHEVRON HILTON
Sydney’s focal point for all
IMPORTANT FUNCTIONS
Whether it’s a banquet, dinner
party, grand ball, wedding break-
fast, convention, sales meeting or
cocktail party, enjoy the luxury and
service of Sydney’s most experi-
enced hotel.
Before making arrangements for
your social or business function,
contact the banquet Manager,
Phone: 35-0433 or write direct to
j CHEVRON HILTON
Macleay St., Pott's Point, Sydney*
CHEV/H
there appears to be an irrefutable case
for a full enquiry into the operations of
this Act.
H. N. BOYLE
Chairman, Regular Defence
Forces Welfare Association.
Melbourne (Vic.).
RAAF MORALE
Sir,
I take issue with “Three RAAF Of-
ficers” on the subject of RAAF morale
(29/2/64). I, too, am an RAAF officer,
and, like your correspondents, I am
voluntarily in the Air Force. The Air
Board, unlike the Military Board, has
made no effort to deny me my funda-
mental rights, and all four of us are
quite free to submit our resignations to-
morrow.
Let no one deny that there is scope
for improvement in conditions of ser-
vice in the RAAF and probably in the
RAN. Very few of us in the community
can honestly say that there is no room
for improvement in working conditions
in whatever vocation we may have
chosen. We in the Services are blighted
by postings, with the consequent upset
and subsequent period of settling in to
a new environment, making new friends,
and becoming acclimatised to different
weather conditions. Our children no
sooner settle in to a school than they
are uprooted and transferred to a new
one. We all contribute to the conten-
tious “DFRB Racket”. We all have to
suffer the same married quarters problem,
caused by the present inadequate hous-
ing, and the seemingly arbitrary period
of two years for receipt of a temporary
accommodation allowance in lieu of mar-
ried quarters, after which TAA ceases
and the serviceman has to pay the full
cost of a rented flat, often in a remote
locality. But, as “Three RAAF Officers”
themselves point out, we accept this. If,
by airing these grievances, some good
results, then we have achieved something.
But let it never be thought that at this
moment the RAAF is staffed by a cadre
of discontented officers whose morale
has declined to the depths that your cor-
respondents imply. If this were the case,
there would be a larger number of
resignations than we see today. True,
some officers are resigning their com-
missions to take up outside employment.
But the number of officers seeking
permanent commissions and a career
in the Service far exceeds the number
that is resigning.
The crux of “Three RAAF Officers’ ”
complaints would seem to be that the
RAAF rates of pay are inadequate. I
must agree that there is a discrepancy in
some cases between the RAAF rates and
those of civilian counterparts. Consider
the engineers award; an Air Force tech-
nical officer does not receive the same
pay as he would in industry, but many
of the officers who vociferously push
forward their claims for an increase on
the grounds that they would be earning
more “outside” completely disregard the
fact that, but for the RAAF, they would
not have the engineering qualifications
they now hold. The RAAF puts them
through diploma or degree training at
the Service’s expense, pays them, clothes
them, feeds them, and houses them while
they are training.
These officers, after serving a certain
time, are free to resign their commissions
and use the qualifications which they owe
to the RAAF to get their jobs outside.
ANOTHER RAAF OFFICER
Melbourne (Vic.).
“EICHMANN IN JERUSALEM”
Sir,
Dr Frank Knopfelmacher’s review of
Hannah Arendt’s “Eichmann in Jerusa-
lem” (7/3/64) is in some respect a
tjjought-provoking piece of work. Yet
his introductory paragraphs act as a
temptation to write a review about the
reviewer.
Like Miss Arendt, Dr K. appears to
have a predilection for ironical phrases
solely designed to shock. This is re-
flected in his accusation that the Israeli
State Prosecutor endeavored to turn the
Eichmann trial into a “parochial Jewish
revenge festival”; his reference to
“Israel’s semi-Fascist marriage laws”; to
Zionists “conscripting the dead along
with the women” to “do a chore for the
national renaissance”.
Dr K., who, like most Jews, lost close
relatives at the hands of the Nazis, states
that “blasphemy is particularly painful
to the survivors of Hitler’s genocide
and to the close relatives of the dead”.
He would do well to gauge the painful
impact of his ironical statements on such
people.
Like Miss Arendt, Dr Knopfelmacher
has a fine intellect and some aspects of
his review are undeniably excellent. But
also like Arendt, by employing brutal
cynicism he has gone out of his way to
advertise that he belongs to the coterie
of alienated Jewish intellectuals who
enjoy indulging in masochistic exhibitions
of self-hatred. Perhaps he unconsciously
senses this when he remarks that “incisive
self-criticism (sometimes degenerating
into self-hatred) is among the noblest
parts of the Jewish tradition”. 1 have
yet to see any “noble tradition” which
extols self-hatred.
Dr K. glosses over one of the most
criticised aspects of “Eichmann in Jerusa-
lem,” viz., Miss Arendt’s view that the
Nazi-appointed Jewish leaders “willingly
co-operated in their own self-destruc-
tion”. In addition to contradicting her
original thesis expounded in the “Origins
of Totalitarianism” and demanding of
Jews attributes above and beyond
ordinary human beings, Miss Arendt has
been justly castigated for manipulating
and distorting empirical data in an effort
to bolster up this thesis.
Dr K's commentary of Miss Arendt’s
analysis of Eichmann is pertinent. Unlike
some Jewish liberals, he also avoids in-
dulging in false sentimentalities about
the legal niceties of the trial, which he
fully supports. His expose of some of
the more bogus German guilt feelings
are also timely. But his persistent utilisa-
tion of irrelevant offensive cynicism and
his zeal to rubbish Zionists (even re-
sorting to outrageous generalisation, un-
substantiated by evidence) ruins the
article.
IsI LEIBLER
Melbourne (Vic.).
SANIAMARIA
Sir,
The March 4 issue of The Bulletin
carries an article entitled “The Cardinal
v. Santamaria” by Kevin Duffy. The
article was submitted as a commentary
Qf your cover feature “The Santamaria
Story”. I did not give it a title and the
title mentioned above was selected by
your paper.
KEVIN DUFFY
Turramurra {NSW).


REVIEWS
THEATRE
The “Firm” Goes Hollywood
£100,000 worth of gaudy pageant
By MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
Camelot. Book and Lyrics by Alan
J. Lerner. Music by Frederick
Loewe. Her Majesty’s Theatre.
Melbourne.
/Tn a wide stage, with a cast of dozens,
with imaginatively designed sets and
lavish costumes, “Camelot” is a spec-
tacular period piece, a stage rival to the
epics of the screen. Statistically
“Camelot” is very impressive: Thirteen
different settings, hundreds of costumes
and £lOO,OOO spent on its making. It
starts with a snow scene in the forest,
a fairy-tale castle in the background,
Guenevere arriving in her ornate sleigh
and the richly apparelled court throng-
ing the stage. It proceeds from set piece
to set piece: The maytime picnic, the
tournament, the investiture in the chapel,
the fairy court of Queen Morgan Le Fey
and, finally, the sombre battle scene. The
hundreds of costumes glow and glitter
in their rich colors and embroidery.
Yards upon yards of trailing velvet in
gowns and cloaks: jewelled head-dresses
for the ladies, suits of armor, of plate
and chain mail, for the knights; flying
standards embroidered with heraldic
arms; four richly caparisoned horses
(only two in New York, says the pro-
gramme) complete with knights, in the
tournament scene.
The pageantry is the best feature of
“Camelot”—a triumph for John Trus-
cott who designed the settings and
costumes. But, nevertheless, these
picturesque or sumptuous settings on a
very large stage do not, to me, repre-
sent Mr Truscott's style at its most
characteristic and best. Only the arbor
set, with its quattrocento delicacy, has
the simplicity and elegance of his best
work. But, even more important than
its style is the fact that this is really a
set within a set. The stage at Her
Majesty's seems too large. With the
smaller stage at St Martin's Theatre,
where he was designer for some years,
John Truscott's sets look like framed
pictures in which every part is related
to every other part.
“Camelot” is based on T. H. White's
novel “The Once and Future King”,
which in turn is based on Malory’s
“Morte D’Arthur”. In re-writing the
Arthurian legend, T. H. White manages
to domesticate Malory. He writes with
wit and realism, yet at the same time
preserves the mediaeval atmosphere of
the marvellous and the ideal of mediae-
val chivalry. But “Camelot” gets it all
wrong. It starts off as light satire on
mediaeval chivalry, but gradually be-
comes soggier and soggier.
The Arthurian legend seems unlikely
material for a musical, in any case, be-
cause the plot turns on the adultery of
Guenevere and Lancelot. The chivalric
code of King Arthur and his Knights
of the Round Table demanded strict
chastity. On the other hand, it approved
of romantic love. Even Malory got into
a muddle over this, for he at first cele-
brated the love of Lancelot and Guene-
vere as the pattern of true love, although
he later showed that this love broke
up the Round Table and destroyed King
Arthur's dream of chivalry. T. H. White
presents Arthur as a very civilised man
who loved both his wife and his friend
and turned a blind eye to their infidelity.
But the villain, Mordred, was not so
civilised and used Guenevere’s adultery
to destroy Arthur.
“Damelot” has a very simple, or
“Hollywood”, interpretation of the
story. There is no adultery. But, since the
plot proceeds exactly as if there were,
everything works out splendidly! Mordred
discovers Lancelot in Guenevere's bed-
room while Arthur is out. Then Arthur
has a terrible struggle with his conscience.
Should he burn Jenny or destroy the
law? While he agonises, helped along by
the taunts-of the diabolical Mordred, the
black-robed chorus lift their voices in the
tuneful enquiry: “Will she burn?”
Because of the evasions of “Camelot”,
Arthur (Paul Daneman), Guenevere
(Jacquelyn McKeever) and Lancelot
(Robert McPhee) are rather absurd
figures, beyond the help of actors. The
only really satisfactory characters are
King Pellinore, a straight comic, and
Mordred, a straight villain. Pellinore, the
well-meaning but hopelessly muddled
king, whose hereditary task is to pursue
the questing beast, is delightfully played
by Desmond Walter-Ellis. Jon Ewing's
balletic Mordred, black-clad and black-
hearted, is a most excellent villain.
Bettina Welch gives him lively support
as an ebullient witch, Morgan Le Fey,
who is Mordred's aunt.
The Shakespearean overtones of the
production are very disconcerting. As
the programme points out, Raymond
Westwell, the producer, has had years of
experience at the Shakespeare Memorial
Theatre at Stratford: Paul Daneman is
a well-known Shakespearean actor; and
the costumes are those of Shakespearean
drama, worn on the stages at Stratford
and the Old Vic. But the Shakespearean
reminiscences sharply emphasise the
banal dialogue, eked out with lyrics
which range from the undistinguished to
the tasteless; the flabby plot, and the
confusion of values.
Conflict
The One Day Of The Year. Alan
Seymour. New Theatre.
Boeing Boeing. Marc Camoletti, dir.
Beverley Cross. Palace Theatre.
Dock Brief. John Mortimer. “Q”
Group. AMP Theatre. Sydney.
A lan Seymour's play “The One Day of
the Year” is full of almost all the er-
rors of an emerging playwright—too
many words, too little dramatic action,
faulty diction, contradictory development
of character. His protagonist is a father
whom we are asked to believe in as a
migrant-hating, chip-on-the-shoulder re-
turned soldier; the conflict is between
this man's world and the newly-opened
university world of his son. The play
wants us to accept that a classic father-
son tragedy of non-communication oc-
curs, but in fact both Seymour’s people
are too communicative the father
finds such extraordinary powers of
logical discourse and fine diction when-
ever he needs them that the play's action
makes nonsense of its opening premises.
New Theatre’s production is fortunate
in having John Gray as its principal
player, and his potency and fire inform
the role of the father with enough at-
traction to make a visit worthwhile for
the acting alone.
“Boeing Boeing” a broad French
bedroom farce has some fetching
young actresses (even though they get a
little self-conscious in the sexy last scene)
in June Campbell, Janette Craig, and
Sandra Gleeson. English player Peter
Jones gives quite an inventive show, but


The Political
Published by The
. a coherent account of the major factors
which will shape the politico - cum - economic
structure of the Federation.”
The Australian Financial Review
Economy of Independent Malaya
a case-study in development
Edited by T. H. Silcock and E. K. Fisk
306 pages, cloth bound, endpaper map.
Price 425. from all good booksellers.
Australian National University, Canberra
honors go to Brigid Lenihan as a wacky
maid.
The “Q” Theatre Group, operating at
the AMP Theatre, Circular Quay, des-
erves your attention with its showing of
John Mortimer’s brilliantly sad and
funny “The Dock Brief”. Ken Hannam,
one of our few good producers, takes
two of our better actors, Walter Sulli-
van and John Armstrong, and gets some
pretty nice work out of them.
KEVON KEMP
FILMS
Enigma
Variations
The Eclipse. Director, Michelangelo
Antonioni. Gala Cinema. Sydney.
“Eclipse” is a more satis-
fying film than its predecessor,
“La Notte.” It is more unified, less pre-
tentious, less prone to irrelevancy and
wilful obscurity. But in general it has the
same Antonionian qualities: the same
slow pace, the same emphasis on mood
and character rather than action in the
ordinary sense, the same poetic natural-
ism achieved through a superb visual
technique.
As with “La Notte”, a conventional
plot is almost entirely absent. The film
is a study of the pains and uncertainties
of young love, as experienced by a rest-
less, intelligent Roman girl (played by
Monica Vitti) who is the centre of atten-
tion throughout almost the entire two
hours of the film.
When the film opens she has just
broken with her fiance ; the long, almost
wordless scene in which the two struggle
to communicate and succeed in produ-
cing only commonplace inanities is a
brilliant piece of impressionism which
shows Antonioni’s special qualities at
their best.
From there the girl drifts hesitantly
into an obviously insecure affair with a
handsome, self-possessed and self-
obsessed young stockbroker (Alain
Delon). The film ends with a long
coda, matching in brilliance the opening
scene, in which the characters of the
story are quite absent and the camera
roams about the places they have fre-
quented, while night replaces day.
While the opening scene shows Anto-
nioni’s uncanny ability to suggest human
relationships with absolute economy, the
final sequence underlines his gift for
using inanimate things in particular
the paraphernalia of a modern city—to
enhance a mood. In between these two
passages there are many that come close
to them in quality, but others which seem
to me to be groping for effect rather
than achieving it.
I feel that Antonioni’s breathtaking
technical skill (allied with that of his
cameraman, Gianni Di Venanzo) is a
more essential component in the suc-
cess of his films than his more fervent
admirers would admit. If the shots were
not all so fascinating to watch, the ques-
tion “To what purpose?” which is often
at the back of the viewer’s mind during
the long, externally uneventful sequence
would become more insistent.
The essential material of the interplay
of character is not really as subtle or
original as is Antonioni’s way of sug-
gesting it or so it seems to a viewer
who cannot catch more than three per
cent of the Italian dialogue. One of
the advantages of impressionism may
be that the sympathetic viewer often
finds more than the artist put into the
picture and that comment is not
intended altogether cynically. Antoni-
oni's poetic observation of everyday
things and behavior sets us a pleasurable
exercise, that of guessing what his some-
what enigmatic characters are really
thinking and feeling.
MARTIN LONG
ART
Vigor in Art
Australian Painting Today. National
Gallery. Melbourne.
T aurie Thomas’s selection of “Aus-
tralian Painting Today” has already
visited three other States, and I daresay
has been picked apart for its notable ex-
clusions and premature inclusions. From
Melbourne the really notable exclusion
is Roger Kemp. Mr Thomas has already
said, apropos of the withdrawal of
Michael Brown’s “Marylou as Miss
Universe” in Sydney (she is now by the
way in Melbourne with the CAS at the
Argus Gallery), that he regards the ex-
hibition as being flexible while it is still
in Australia, so there is still time to in-
clude Kemp. I very much hope that the
space can be found. There are in any
case several lesser lights flickering in
this exhibition at the moment which
could well be extinguished.
I put this gripe first in the hope that
it will be noticed. On the whole the
selection is a fine one. Many a collection
of forty local painters could look just
strident and otherwise featureless.
Mr Thomas’s selection is lively and
genuinely representative of the best
trends in contemporary Australian paint-
ing. This should help to make it clear
that the best way to organise a success-
ful exhibition is to give the responsibility
to one man. Mr Thomas has chosen well
—both his painters and his pictures.
This sense of movement and vigor
should help the show enormously when
it confronts European viewers, probably
ready to be sceptical or patronizing. It
is not likely that Europeans will be sur-
prised by any work here and they may
well label and dismiss a good deal of it
as derivative. Nonetheless this exhibition
demonstrates as well as, or better than,
its predecessors that, although Australian
painting deals in unexceptional aesthetic
assumptions and is not stylistically very
original, it is capable of asserting a loud
and open character of its own. There
is here more than enough evidence that
the bulk of Australian imagery is the
result of a strong response either direct-
ly to the landscape or to man’s vital
place in his surroundings.
The extremes of social commentary or
pure aesthetic abstraction are barely pre-
sent. To sympathize with these paintings
one needs to share often a particular ex-
perience or an individual metaphysic.
Large mixed exhibitions are usually
stupefying. Currently in Melbourne there
are five or six going at once, showing a
total of hundreds of painters. Apart from
“Australian Painting Today” the most
absorbing of these is the Museum of
Modern Art’s Survey of painting in 1963.
The idea is an excellent one nearly
every show of some importance last year
is recalled by a painting. It makes an
interesting comparison with “Australian
Painting Today” because it is more
varied, though not naturally of the same
quality, except in the case of Arthur
Boyd, whose Nude in the Museum
“Survey” is much more engaging than the
similar one at the Gallery.
The Contemporary Art Society an-
nual exhibition, on the other hand, is


HELP
LEGACY
all the year round
0T.22D
s
Reach important overseas markets fast—in the easiest
and most convenient way—Overseas Telephone!
Enjoy local exchange clarity and much faster connection
by using the new coaxial Commonwealth Pacific Cable
(COMPAC) to New Zealand, Fiji, Britain, Europe and
North America. Overseas calls are reasonably priced,
too—a three-minute call to New Zealand is only 37/6;
to London, 75/- (minimum rate).
THE OVERSEAS
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
COMMISSION (AUSTRALIA)
Australia’s Overseas Cable and
Radio Services
BOOK YOUR OVERSEAS CALLS
THROUGH THE POST OFFICE
certainly stupefying. One quite loses
track of who’s following whom. There
is some good painting of course and the
bonus of “Marylou as Miss Universe” for
those who regret its passing from “Aus-
tralian Painting Today”. (It did not, how-
ever, get one of the prizes, judged by
John Brack: The main prize went to
Robert Grieve.) Undoubtedly one of the
real struggles these days for the Contem-
porary Art Society is to stay contempor-
ary. They no longer have the initiative,
and though they are splendidly vigorous
and pointed in their main publications,
their painting often has to race to keep
up. This exhibition is at least reassuring
—a lot of painters (and how many of
them teachers?) can maintain a very good
standard without lapsing into utter con-
servatism or wild gimmickry in the name
of experiment.
BILL HANNAN
TELEVISION
Spanish Earth
Project ’64, The Reign in Spain.
Channel 9, Sydney.
/Channel 9's English-produced pro-
gramme, “The Reign in Spain” was a
superb example of documentary. Nar-
rated by Richard Burton, it traced the
course of Spanish history from Alfonso
to Franco, and with excellent newsreel
terse interviews and intelligent commen-
tary provided a thorough analysis of
Spain in the 20th Century. Positive in its
approach, it preserved a continuity that
was more than merely chronological. The
examination of Spanish political leaders
reached no conclusions, but left a host
of implications; particularly in the case
of Franco where his public policy state-
ments were coonterpointed with films of
poverty, stagnation and unrest, and the
execution and martyrdom of the con-
fessed leader of the Spanish Communist
Party.
Goya's etchings of the Napoleonic in-
vasion are no more horrifying than was
the film of the civil war and its after-
math. Lines of coffins, disfigured children
and crazed women testified to the tragedy.
And Stephen Spender, in an interview,
voiced the Socialist's reconsideration of
the war: “a tragedy for the Spanish
people . . . but from the point of
view of Europe it provided a great
example for the struggle against
Fascism.” Half a million died and the
producers of “The Reign in Spain”
caught the essence of their deaths. Isolat-
ing it as a clash of extremist ideologies,
the coverage of the war was a bravura
piece in pacing and taste and generated
a strong emotional response (even Rich-
ard Burton, whose delivery was always
crisp, seemed actually to spit the word
“Fascism”.)
Eleven million pounds a year of
tourism balances slothful industrial
development. Franco moves slowly
forward, and he is given due credit for
the progress he has made —some of the
millions of poor are better housed and
the land at last yields more through am-
bitious irrigation and improved tech-
niques.
The programme avoided a complete
discussion of the Catholic position, and
the reported tension between Franco
and the ecclesiastics received only casual
comment.
WILLIAM DANIELS


RED PAGE
Years of the Long-Bow
The forging of English patriotism
By GEOFFREY SCOTT
The Age of Chivalry. Arthur Bryant.
Collins. 28s. 6d.
Qir Arthur Bryant is one of the very
best popular historians writing today.
Not so long ago the word “populariser”
had a distinctly pejorative significance;
it meant, at any rate so far as history
was concerned, someone who merely
rehashed the works of his betters and
lagged about a generation behind original
scholarship. There is much less truth in
the accusation now, and the standard of
popular historical writing has perhaps
never been higher than it is today.
While many of the professedly
scholarly historians, Namierist and
others, battle acrimoniously in the dust
of controversy and belabor each other
with their favorite philosophical cudgels,
the mantle of Gibbon and Macaulay
seems to have fallen on the better popu-
larises. Not that Gibbon and Macaulay
did not use history to flourish their pre-
judices in the reader’s face. It is a plati-
tudinous truth that every age rewrites
history to suit its own mental climate.
Gibbon surveyed the disintegration of
the Roman Empire from the cold, clear
heights of the 18th century Enlighten-
ment. Macaulay chronicled late 17th-
century England as a battlefield between
honest, liberal-minded Whigs and dark
and devious Tories. But they contrived to
make history intensely readable—which
is more than can be said for some of
their modern compeers—and Sir Arthur
Bryant belongs solidly in their great
tradition.
Bryant has already earned a distin-
guished reputation by his trio of books
about Samuel Pepys and his times, his
biography of Charles II and his three-
volume panorama of Napoleonic and
post-Napoleonic England. Now he is
engaged on a far more ambitious under-
taking, a general history of England that
-—judging from what has so far appeared
—promises to be one of the best works
of its kind so far produced. The first
volume, “Makers of the Realm”, was
published 10 years ago. Its successor,
“The Age of Chivalry”, deals with the
period from the accession of Edward I
to the early years of the reign of
Richard 11.
The High Middle Ages present the
popular historian with a formidable task.
It was a period fraught with events of
deep significance for England's political
and economic future. Regular Parlia-
ments were emerging from the arbitrarily-
summoned meetings of barons, knights
and burgesses; the “Commons” were
splitting off from the “Lords” and were
beginning to feel the power of their purse
in meeting the endless demands of the
monarchs for money to finance wars
against the Welsh, the Scots and the
French. The law was developing towards
its modern form, and, though they were
generally hated by the commonalty, the
growing army of judges, clerks and
pleaders were bringing the uniform jus-
tice of the king’s courts to every corner
of the realm.
HThe face of the countryside was chan-
A ging, too, though more slowly. When
Richard II came to the throne in 1377
probably nearly half the population were
still tied by manorial bonds to the land
they cultivated. Much of the country
was an un-hedged sheepwalk devoted to
growing wool for the textile towns of
Flanders and Italy. But everywhere
there were signs that the feudal system,
with its complex network of privilege
and obligation embracing almost every-
one from king to serf, was steadily de-
caying. Villeins were commuting their
feudal services into cash payments and
becoming tenant farmers. Thousands of
the more enterprising, defying the fero-
cious statutes issued after the Black
Death, were deserting the plough and
sheepfold altogether and fleeing to the
freedom of the towns. Former serfs
became rich craftsmen and merchants;
their sons wore the fur-tipped robes of
aldermen and dined with princes. One
Wiltshire villein piled up a fortune of
£2OOO more than £lOO,OOO in to-
day’s money.
Standards of comfort rose steadily.
The court of Richard II was marked by
the most bizarre sartorial extravagance
- curled shoes with toes so long that
the wearers had to walk upstairs back-
wards, towering head-dresses for the
ladies, long trailing sleeves for the
scented and mincing young courtiers. It
was not only the nobility whose demands
gave impetus to the new trades. A whole
new class of rich financiers, merchants
and master-craftsmen was thrusting
vigorously into the forefront of English
life. Native moneylenders replaced the
Bardi, Peruzzi and Frescobaldi, whose
Lombard Street banking houses had been
ruined by the reputation of Edward Ill’s
huge debts. “Flemish glass appeared in
traceried windows; dovecots, fishponds
and nut-alleys were laid out in parks and
gardens; manor houses and fine mer-
chants’ dwellings were rising in place
of the old gloomy fortresses where men
and beasts had slept together on filthy,
rush-strewn floors in draughty halls full
of smoke and stink”.
On this great revolution Bryant writes
sensibly and lucidly. Though he admits
to being “no medievalist” he has
thoroughly digested his specialist author-
ities. He has no particular theory of
history to propound. He is concerned
with what men did and said, rather than
with any alleged “economic necessity”
that may have driven them inexorably
along the paths they followed. This per-
haps gives his history a slightly old-
fashioned air but it is very refreshing.
He has his prejudices, of course one
(and an endearing one to any Scotsman)
is in favor of the Scots in their struggle
against the first three Edwards. Other-
wise his attitude towards England's re-
lations with foreign powers is sturdily
patriotic.
There is, however, a very sound reason
for this feeling, for the 14th century saw
the development of a truly national sen-
timent in England for the first time since
the Norman Conquest. The first Plan-
tagenets were more French than English.
The most cherished parts of their do-
mains were the vineclad hills and fair
towns of south-western France. To the
mass of the English population they were
still foreigners who regarded England
simply as a source of taxes to pay for
their dynastic feuds on the Continent.
Curiously enough it was w'ar that pro-
vided the anvil on which national unity
was forged, aided by the deve'opment
of a weapon that transformed the medie-
val battlefield.
Not even the machine-gun or the tank
had such a dramatic effect on warfare as
the English long-bow. It began as a
rough bow of elm-wood used by the wild
Welsh of the Marches. It was adopted
by the English, fashioned of yew, strung
with arrows tipped with metal and
flighted by the grey goose quill, and, in
the hands of the archers of Nottingham
and Cheshire, it became the deadliest
weapon of the age. At Crecy and Poitiers
the chivalry of France fell in swathes
beneath hails of arrows that pierced
armor and nailed riders to their horses.
Out of those astonishing victories a new
national English army was born instead
of the old levy of barons and their re-
tainers. Edward 111 fought his wars as
an English monarch at the head of his
people and not, like his predecessors, as
the chieftain of his feudal fief-holders.
The resurgence of national feeling ran


through every vein of English life. In
1362 the proceedings ofTarliament were
opened in English instead of French for
the first time. The old Romance tongue
of western Europe was ceasing to be the
speech of the nobility and even the law-
yers were allowed to plead in English
in the king’s courts. Only a generation
later Chaucer’s aristocratic prioress
spoke French, not after the French of
Paris “which was to her unknowe”, but
“after the school of Stratford-atte-Bow”.
England was, of course, still firmly
part of Catholic Christendom and the
seed sown by Wycliffe and the Lollards
was not to germinate for a long time to
come. The Church's share of the national
wealth was enormous, prelates still held
many important offices of state, and the
richness of English shrines like those at
Canterbury and Bury St Edmunds testi-
fied to the devoutness of the people. Yet
here too the spirit cf national independ-
ence was asserting itself. In the midst
of his disputes with the iron-willed Ed-
ward 111, Pope Clement VI lamented:
“If the King of England were to petition
for his ass to be made a bishop, we must
not say him nay”.
The Age of Chivalry is not easy to
bring to life for the ordinary reader. In
many respects it appears more remote
than the Classical civilisations of Greece
and Rome, and Cicero and Thucydides
seem to speak to us more intelligibly than
Froissart and William Langland. Yet
Sir Arthur Bryant has brought it off.
His book is a model of its kind and the
succeeding volumes in his Story of Eng-
land will be eagerly awaited by historian
and layman alike.
Hemingway & Co.
That Summer in Paris. Morley Cal-
laghan. Mac Gibbon and Kee. 375.
3d.
ly/foRLEY Callaghan tells the story of
his early years as an author in
Toronto and Paris in a beguiling style
recalling his best short stories—cool
and tranquil in manner, sharp and
striking in content. To the student of
the period, or the confirmed addict of
literary gossip, his accounts of Heming-
way, Scott Fitzgerald, Joyce, Ford
Madox Ford and others will be of im-
mediate interest. For the more general
reader, it is rewarding in a somewhat
off-beat way a long short story, cool
but bright, with the additional interest
of autobiography.
If this reads as a rather guarded re-
commendation, my defensiveness is de-
fensible. The first part of the book is
an appealing account of a talented young-
ster’s adventures on the Toronto “Star”,
then as now one of the toughest North
American dailies.
But what is one to make of the longer
Paris section, with its elaborately detailed
presentation, in close-up all the way, of
the tortuous relationships of Hemingway,
Fitzgerald, and Callaghan himself, full of
hurt feelings, misunderstandings, cautious
half-reconciliations? Callaghan’s refusal
to interpret, to provide explanations and
evaluations, so effective in his fiction,
may well leave us slightly baffled here,
if intrigued; he leaves it to us to make
out a “meaning” for his story.
Through this process of fine observa-
tion what comes out strongly is the high
comedy of the clash of these highly-
organised and over-sensitive personali-
ties. The book’s last chapter is a master-
piece of deadpan reporting, with Hem-
ingway getting Fitzgerald to cable Cal-
laghan, now back in Toronto, to deny a
story in the “New York Herald Tribune”
of Callaghan’s knocking out Hemingway
in the first round of a boxing-match
between them.
One isn’t surprised to find Fitzgerald,
the elegant and feeling stylist, embroiled
in such a tangle of sensibilities; comedy
enters with the incongruous spectacle of
tough-boy Hemingway brooding over
slights and upsets, and gearing Fitzgerald
as his champion. There is a distinct
prima-donna quality, in the whole per-
formance, at its richest in the central
episode of the book. Hemingway and
Callaghan box, with Fitzgerald as time-
keeper; Fitzgerald allows a round to go
on for an extra minute, Hemingway is
knocked down, and believes Fitzgerald
to be humiliating him deliberately . . .
and so on, again.
It is fascinating to see in Hemingway
the play and balance between manly,
Spanish-style pride, and girlish sensiti-
vity; as in his writing, where laconic
deadpan slips so easily (and often) into
sentimentality. This book helps to make
clear the essential romanticism of
Hemingway and Co. romanticism of
a fairly lush variety at that. Callaghan
is not unaware of it in himself. He says
of his early raging ambition to go to
Paris:
“It did not seem to be comical that
I was not thinking of France as the
place where I might go to cultivate my
mind, become aware of the currents
of French literature, see Gide, talk to
Cocteau, sneer at the naughty boys,
Breton and Aragon, expose myself to
the marvellously quick French intelli-
gence. No, I thought of Paris as some
kind of magical milieu where there
would be a vast number of nameless
perceptive men who would appreciate
my own stories.”
Although the Hemingway-Fitzgerald
story is the chief thing in the book, it
has a fair deal else of interest inter-
views with James Joyce and others,
meetings with a sick priest stranded on
a rest-cure trip among a group of elderly
and very proper American ladies, an ex-
plosive glimpse of Ezra Pound. But per-
haps more than in anything else, its
success lies in its evoking the atmos-
phere, the life of a whole situation;
almost a world; the feel of the Paris of
the American literary expatriates. At
least three of the writers Callaghan pre-
sents were very great ones; here we be-
come involved, even if peripherally, in
the urgent currents of their lives, and
the experience is fascinating.
ALEXANDER PORTEOUS
Keyholes
The Men. Angelika Schrobsdorff.
Collins. 31s.
Light and Shadow. Herz Bergner.
Georgian House. 255.
Cliffs of Fall. Shirley Hazzard. Mac-
millan. 265.
Men” is scarcely more than a
bed-to-bed description of an egocen-
tric strumpet, even though the publishers
lead off with highfalutin phrases about
exposes of “the moral and psychological
climate of post-war Europe” and the
authoress tries to pull the blankets over
our eyes in a final “billet-doux” to “lovers
of truth”. Eveline begins as a reluctant
virgin and finishes with her twenty-fifth
birthday when she seems fully qualified
for the award of professional status. This
does not refer to her penmanship in which
phrases like “an invisible hand squeezed
my heart, I felt it twitching and flutter-
ing like a dying bird” keep her in the
amateur class.
Angelika Schrobsdorff, whose story is
autobiographical, had a German father
and a Jewish mother. She migrated to
Bulgaria in 1939 but returned to live in
post-war Germany. However, the con-
genital call-girl mentality is truly inter-
national and I failed to discover any-
thing either typically German or typically
Jewish in her make-up, although there
are half-hearted attempts to pin the
blame on her background, her environ-
ment, in fact on anything but herself.
Yet she is no repentant Magdalene
and this book is not a confession. It’s
suspiciously like bragging. She places the
reader’s eye to a succession of bedroom
keyholes as though inviting everyone to
admire the pictures in her grubby little
exhibition, among which I searched for
just one sign of real art.
Many a related theme has been made
touchingly beautiful the film “The
Nights of Cabiria” was a notable example
but the heroine of “The Men”, in-
capable of genuine feeling for anyone
(even her mother’s multiple sclerosis
evokes in her nothing but repugnance)
remains incapable of arousing any


6
Penguin Books
wish to appoint a
SALES MANAGER
to be responsible to the Managing Director
for aii aspects of sales including policy,
promotion and advertising. He must be
able to lead a strong sales force and to
represent the Company at all levels. Book
trade experience desirable but not essen-
tial. Location Melbourne, with consider-
able travelling.
This is a challenging management position
and carries a good salary, car and super-
annuation.
Applications (marked confidential) to The
Directors, Penguin Books, c/- Kent Brierley
& Barraclough, 11 Bank Place, Melbourne.
sympathy in her readers. Actually, it all
works out as a bit of a bore.
In the London “Observer”, Marghanita
Laski recently published her own classi-
fication of pornographic (not a synonym
for bannable) books, in which she would
possibly find a niche for this one. I
would not do it any such favor.
At least Michael Bullock’s translation
from the German reads effortlessly,
which is more than can be said for Alec
Braizblatt’s from the Yiddish in “Light
and Shadow”:
“She wanted to go over and say some-
thing to the woman, but her tongue was
cut off.” This is not intended as an
account of some gruesome goings-on;
someone was momentarily at a loss for
words.
“He had immediately endeared him-
self to her with his difference . . . He
was completely fresh.” No need to send
for the vice-squad. Send for the trans-
lator! The author is merely describing
how nice boy meets nice girl.
“. . . He increasingly let himself into
shady business. He met with the bookies
. . .” Here, too, there is no undue cause
for alarm. Joe was in with some SP men.
“. . . Little stories by which he took
in his audience.” Not a confidence
trickster at work, but a Rabbi making
a speech.
“Light and Shadow” claims to be
unique. The translation certainly is. The
Australian publishers should have asked
someone to grind the edges off this very
rough quartz, instead of writing apolo-
getic postscripts on the blurb explaining
that it must be right because two different
translators from the Yiddish working at
two different books have achieved
similarly peculiar results.
Two wrongs don’t make one correct
book. They merely make a fool of the
author who is obviously sincere and
does not deserve to be pilloried by
ridiculous English. No one would
seriously suggest translating German like
this, although the two languages share
a common root from the Middle Ages
and I did once see a Hanover conductor’s
Press notice rendered thus: “He incited
his auditors to sensuous activities” W'hen
all he had done was to inspire his
listeners.
Herz Bergner has apparently been
living in Australia for at least 20 years
but he continues to write in his mother-
tongue. He tells the story of an orthodox
Polish Jewish family who migrate to
Victoria, open a small shop in a rural
area but resent the neighborliness of the
Gentiles and move to Melbourne where
they become partners in a tailoring busi-
ness which prospers so much that they
rise from Carlton to Elwood. The child-
ren try to break away from their mother’s
rigid ideas: Pauline has an affair with
an Italian who somewhat melodramati-
cally stabs her after she marries the man
of her family’s choice; Leslie weds the
Christian who is about to bear his child;
and Morry, who was born in Australia,
abandons his studies as a doctor to
migrate to Israel.
The author sees his fellows in the
harsh new light of his adopted country,
so that a non-Jew at times experiences
the added embarrassment of witnessing
an internal family squabble. But it would
be as wrong to conclude that all Jews
are like Bergner’s as to maintain that
all Australians are like the people in
Lawler's “Doll”.
Shirley Hazzard is a new writer who
knows how to give a wryly ironic twist
to a curious blend of the profound and
the obvious and make it instantly re-
cognisable as a true voice of our time,
e.g. “. . . one doesn’t really profit from
experience; one merely learns to- predict
the next mistake.”
In this collection of short stories she
seems obsessed with man’s insensitivity
to man . . . even more to woman. She
takes a small cast of characters and
presses them into claustrophobic situa-
tions w'here they obligingly grate against
each other. The resultant sparks she then
welds into minor tragedies such as the
eternal rectangle of “In One’s Own
House” where the walls gradually move
in on Miranda’s love for her neurotic
husband whose mother prefers his brother
James who is in love with Miranda; or
the sketch of the apologetic poet
“Harold” and his appalling parent, or
the new young widow before the un-
recognised abyss in “Cliffs of Fall”.
MARIA WOLKOWSKY
Tokyo Tales
After the Banquet. Yukio Mishima.
Trans. Donald Keene. Seeker &
Warburg. 265.
The Key. Junichiro Tanizaki. Trans.
Howard Hibbett. Panther Books.
Japan's prolific writer, Yukio Mishima,
** has published over a dozen novels
since 1948 and ten of them, so far, have
been made into films. In “After the
Banquet” the full range of his power
is revealed. One marvels at craftsman-
ship with which nothing is “contrived”
and which allows no irrelevant episode
to interrupt for “dramatic effect”. This
novel of modern Tokyo tells of the
amours, introspections and self-recrimin-
ations of Kazu, a woman of charm and
wit, and a not uncommon character in
Japan where for centuries women have
played important behind-the-scenery
roles in political and social life.
Fiftyish, plump, Kazu is a restaurant
owner and self-made millionairess. Still
ablaze with vitality she feels she is
through with passion and love. How-
ever, she is captivated by the distinction
of one of her guests, Noguchi, an elderly
aristocrat and intellectual, once a cabinet
minister. Both, in spite of vastly differ-
ent backgrounds, are strongly drawn to
each other and they go through a period
of spiritual agony before understanding
how unmatched they are. After their
marriage, Kazu, true woman of the peo-
ple, and a natural politician, secretly
throws herself and her great resources
into a campaign for the unexpected re-
surrection of her husband’s political
career. Noguchi, on discovering her
flamboyant antics, is enraged that his
dignity his most prized possession
has been vilified and scene after drama-
tic scene follows in which he is revealed
as an unbending moralist. Tension grows
to an almost unbearable degree.
The scenes in which Noguchi and his
diplomat cronies speak of the good old
days and of their connections with pre-
war, eminent figures of the Western
world, are exciting and Japan's new
philosophy and way of life stand out
with cruel clarity. Mishima’s characteri-
zation of Kazu is brilliant and painful
and the final summing up deeply touch-
ing and convincing.
Another relatively young Japanese
writer, Junichiro Tanazaki, also portrays
the lives of elderly men and women in
his bestseller, “The Key”. Here he ex-
plodes the idea that love and passion are
the prerogatives of youth. When the
novel was first published in Japan many
people were shocked and, although they
had read it avidly, preferred to deny all
knowledge of the book.


PRESS CLIPPINGS
WILL TELL YOU
Keep fully informed by letting us
supply you, or your office, with
press clippings on any subject in
which you are interested.
We offer a complete coverage of
newspapers and magazines, all
States, city and country. This
press clipping service enables you
to keep a complete tab on any
matter—your company, trade or
orofession, financial news, com-
pany reports, publicity mentions,
new industries, political and
editorial mentions, publicity
checks, press releases, sales
leads, competitors' news.
We will supply clippings on
any subject you may care
to specify. 'Phone us or
write on your letter head
for full information
A.N.Z.PRESS CLIPPING SERVICE,
G.P.O. BOX 1730, SYDNEY. 31-6740
It is the frightening story of a middle-
aged man's last bout of sexual passion.
His passion is not centred, as is so often
the case (in novels) on a mistress or
young girl, but on his wife, Ikuko, the
mother of their 20-year-old daughter. In
their daily life, Tanazaki presents his
main characters as dignified, quietly
living suburban folk, but at night no
holds are barred as Professor Kimura,
the ageing, ailing husband indulges—
ironically and against his innate decencies
- in simulated jealousy and fetishism.
His delicately bred wife feigns trances as
her husband indulges himself and the
daughter of the house and her boyfriend
become shockingly involved. Although
sensational, the novel is a serious study
of emotional and physical behavior, a
work of art, in no way pornographic, and
a story that compresses in its few pages
a large and true picture of human
tragedy.
ELIZABETH KATA
Botany Bay
Sydney Cove, 1789-1790. John
Cobley. Angus & Robertson.
50s.
Tn this, the second of the series, Dr
■*" John Cobley continues his diary con-
densations of the events of Botany Bay.
The first volume published in England
contained the details of domestic happen-
ings in the new settlement in 1788, the
pioneer year of Australian history. This
one continues the narrative with equal
care in the use of authorities and with an
equally excellent selection of events, but
in some instances not so full a one as
one might have desired, although the
author has shown a wise tendency not
to be afraid to quote at length from
letters such as that of Lieutenant Hili
which give descriptions of the conditions
in the Colony.
I think, however, that he might profit-
ably have made more use of Macarthur
papers and particularly of the papers of
Surgeon's Mate John Harris and some
of the correspondence which he does not
use (such as that of the Revd. Richard
Johnson) describing the condition of the
Second Fleet on its arrival in June 28,
1790: but one must admit the influence
of limitations of space. However, the
most valuable work Dr Cobley can do
in his continuation of series is to make
available the writing about the times
which is not published. This is especially
important when Professors at the Uni-
versities are prepared to accept hack-
neyed authorities whose writings (some-
times truncated) are easily accessible in
print and to ignore original documents
less easily available in the Mitchell
Library, and which have not been printed.
Not that they worry much about
knowledge of authorities in any case—•
one of them in a supposed history of
Australia now circulating widely in the
United States, states that HMS Sirius
was wrecked at Norfolk Island in
February, 1789, a howler which shows
that he has scarcely the foggiest know-
ledge of the detail of the history of the
first three years of the struggle for
survival. Dr Cobley’s works should at
least save the authorities at the Australian
National and Sydney Universities and
the Royal Australian Historical Society
from making the kind of elementary
schoolboy blunders of which they have
all recently been guilty.
- As he proceeds with his useful enter-
prise he is now beginning to run into
difficulties which will increase as he
proceeds: increasing bulk of material
calling for careful examination and
skilled selectiveness: the problem of deal-
ing with retrospective accounts —matter
written in one year about a previous year
—and balance in choosing the detail of
contents. It is to be hoped that he will
not hurry his work to meet the needs of
a timetable of publication, since much
of the usefulness of his effort depends on
its being as complete in reference matter
as possible and in comprehending as fair
and balanced an account of all that is
important. Particularly it will be import-
ant to include the pith of documents
not available to the ordinary student or
reader who does not live adjacent to the
great research libraries.
Further, with the development of the
settlement and the change in the nature
of the events taking place in it, there
seems to be need for a short intro-
duction to future volumes epitomising
the contents and the history behind them.
All in all, however. Dr Cobley is doing
one of the most useful pieces of work
in the field of basic early Australian
history when “Australia” was virtually
confined to a few square miles round
Port Jackson and to enterprises in
exploration and trading emanating from
that tiny enclave.
M. H. ELLIS
Cook-Book
Great Dishes of the World. Robert
Carrier. Nelson. £6 Bs. 6d.
1%/Ir Robert Carrier sounds like the
ideal of the self-made aristocrat.
Having inherited a love of food and
cooking from his American and German
forebears, which he polished by staying
on in France after US Army Service, he
is now food editor of “The Sunday
Times” and “Vogue”, a regular com-
muter between homes in London and
St Tropez, and, to put it briefly
“London's gayest gourmet”.
His “Great Dishes of the World” is
appropriately plush and precious; but for
all its glossiness it is a good cookery
book. There could even be a sound case
made for his gushing prose and glisten-
ing photographs. Gastronomic rhetoric
has the severe task of arousing immediate
excitement and sustaining anticipation
throughout a pretty tedious and often
long operation. For an Australian public
at least a writer must constantly assure
the cook that the most exquisite exotica
can be “whipped up in a minute”, and
that fine cooking is really no more de-
bauched than ritual burning. Hence one
counters the Anglo-Saxon conviction that
the French kitchen leans heavily on pond
life by playing up the simple, peasant
fare which steams in earthenware terrines
against a backdrop of basketwear, bleed-
ing game and festooned sausages and
onions. And most importantly today one
presents a few chef d'oeuvres from every
country, though the French always win
and the English lose. Gastronomy indeed
becomes a form of travel, with all the
attendant gamesmanship of travellers’'
tales.
Apart from these standard professional
eccentricities, Mr Carrier is very sound. 1
Very little background is needed to make
his recipes work, and in the main his
choice is splendid. It is not an encyclo-
paedic masterwork, a Mrs Beeton or a
Larousse, but a typically good glossy
magazine selection, especially strong on
French, adequate on most, weak on a
few strays like Chinese. His introductory
sections on basic ingredients, the kitchen
garden, the store cupboard, terms, imple-
ments and methods is admirably concise
and thorough.
If your own library is already so
sound that a selective work would be
redundarft, you could in your own in-
terests consider Mr Carrier's book a
good New Year's resolution for one of
those friends you still hesitate to visit
at mealtimes.
BILL HANNAN


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Higher Interest Rates before Taxes
The Reserve Bank requirement that all trading banks must
place 15.5 p.c. of their customers’ deposits in the freezing
chamber (Statutory Reserve Deposit of the Reserve
Bank) as from March 4 means that about <£loom. has been
taken out of circulation and will earn only 15s. p.c. These
surplus liquid bank funds, derived largely from buoyant export
receipts, otherwise could have gone into bonds, the short-term
money market, or even into new overdrafts.
The Reserve Bank obviously can see that inflationary fuel
is building quickly and, although it may appear to be tough
on the trading banks, it is attempting to siphon off the surplus
cash as quickly as possible. Otherwise the Commonwealth
Government could be faced with the need to impose some
outside controls or impose higher taxes.
The Bulletin warned of this in previous articles and
reiterates the warning that the impending basic wage increase,
shortage of skilled labor, inflow of overseas money and the
generally high liquidity in the economy could present inflation-
ary dangers. Renewed stimulus to home building is already
imposing some strain on resources.
The surplus of money raised from Commonwealth loans is
proving an embarrassment to the-Government and it must be
patently clear that the implementation of election promises,
involving heavy Government expenditure and expansion plans
for housing, etc., could add further pressure to costs and prices.
Imports, so far, have not shown a sharp increase to keep
pace with Australia’s windfall sales of wheat, sugar, meat, etc.,
but, with the feverish export drives currently being undertaken
by other countries, a rising trend can be expected which would
mop up some surplus spending
and eat into overseas reserves.
The still-liquid trading banks,
with large, unused overdraft
commitments over their heads,
complain they are being squeez-
ed, particularly as their unused
overdrafts are being used as a
backstop for operators in the
private short-term money mar-
ket.
The Reserve Bank weapon is
the only immediate financial
restraint that can be imposed.
This weapon includes interest
rates, and it is being suggested
that the next move will be to
make money dearer by raising
interest rates, including over-
draft rates, an increase in fixed
deposit rates and even a possible
increase in the niggardly 15s.
p.c. paid on frozen funds. The
anticipated commitment fee on
overdrafts (like the US system
where you pay an overdraft fee
whether you use it or not) has
The above graph shows the amount of freight shifted by the
NSW Government Railways for the past six years. The depart-
ment attributes the decline in tonnages in 1961-62 and 1962-63
directly to the credit squeeze. Present indications are for a
complete recovery to the 1960-61 peak. An article on road
transport companies, now acting more in concert with the
railways, begins on page 54.
not appeared yet because of anomalies which would penalise
some clients unduly.
But there is talk that the Reserve Bank is fingering the
flexible interest rate weapon which it found so effective last
year.
The World of Steel
Versus BHP
Tf BHP's latest supplementary report does not read so
excitingly as last year’s, that is largely because it merely
seems to confirm the prosperous economic situation most Aus-
tralians are taking for granted. In March, 1963, we were still
waiting on BHP to tell us exactly how far recovery had pro-
ceeded.
At that stage Australia’s steelmaker succeeded in illumina-
ting a healthier business climate, doubly assuring the line of
future progress. Both industry and the sharemarkets could feel
justified in banishing any lingering remnants of doubt.
None of this is meant to suggest that the present statement
lacks bite. The group continues to roll out a long, impressive
list of capital developments, of prospecting and exploration,
and of “significant advances in output.”
So, too, the much publicised search overseas for workers
can only serve to gild the picture.
With all of 44,500 employees, the chairman, Sir Colin Syme,
must still complain: “Had w'e been able to obtain all the men
we needed, the number of em-
ployees would have shown a
marked increase ... It is to be
hoped that an expanded immi-
gration programme will serve to
alleviate this problem.”
The outside world can’t help
breaking in on BHP at another
critical point—exports. It is well
known how the company’s capa-
city has to be juggled between
domestic demand and discon-
cultivated foreign mar-
kets.
Actually, exports have gone
lower “than in recent previous
periods because of the need to
meet the sharply increased local
demand. Nevertheless, we are
fully seized with the importance
of continuing to supply export
markets which show any pros-
pect of being permanent and des-
pite the current difficulties we
are continuing to make some
tonnages available in these
quarters.”


Sir Colin in one breath mentions intense export competition
and severe pressure on prices, and then has to report “indica-
tions of increasing steel requirements generally throughout the
world, and in recent months production rates in many overseas
countries have been increased from previously depressed
levels.”
In fact world export prices have just started to harden after
a four-year droop. With so much overcapacity ready to be
soaked up, a few nations (and the European High Authority)
are even advocating a world steel conference to see if the
competing industries can behave like gentlemen.
BHP in this area probably has most to fear from the Jap-
anese, now establishing fresh output peaks as home demand
lifts. For the new financial year beginning April, Japan’s steel
industry expects to lift home demand by 7 p.c. to 21i million
metric tons while output goes up by 8 p.c. to 35£ million
metric tons.
A Sydney sharebroker sees it as an investment advantage
that high local demand makes BHP fairly independent of less
profitable export markets. The company itself may hardly
see it this way. After all, it knows it must more than occa-
sionally venture forth from a tightly dominated island market.
Riposte from a Nation
of Shopkeepers
A ll the stops are to be pulled out when the British Exhibition
takes over Sydney -Showground from September 25 to
October 10 next. Sydney city and shops will also be deluged
with a “British Fortnight” at the same time.
The whole trade panjandrum is the largest yet organised by
British Overseas Fairs Ltd, a non-profit-making offshoot of the
Federation of British Industries.
An embattled British image has suffered some knocks in Aus-
tralia of late years, the more so since trade does not simply
follow the flag any more. The vigorous modernity of this
coming, essentially promotional, effort should dispose of any
feeling that Britain is falling behind industrially.
Lest the suspicious still harp, the organisers point out that
the Fair was conceived long before Britain took its rebuff from
the Common Market. They do not attempt to conceal a desire
to chase a greater volume of Australian trade by every device
of salesmanship.
Who Is the Meat in
the Sandwich ?
"Decent US action to curb meat imports sets a precedent
which no doubt should be considered seriously when the
Kennedy Round of tariff reductions comes up for discussion.
Nations which are being asked to lower their tariff barriers must
ponder on the chaos which would occur if everyone adopted
the US pattern on meat.
Immediately following the agreement with Australia and
New Zealand to restrict import quotas, local State councils
in the US started to fine retailers who sold imported meat.
Then a bill was introduced to Congress aimed at cutting the
quota of meat imports back to a base year, which permitted
only relatively small imports compared with the current quota
agreement.
As a further backstop to counter the sharp drop in Ameri-
can beef prices (caused by the influx of cheaper foreign beef)
US authorities commenced to buy on the local market to
bolster prices.
If small nations agree during the Kennedy Round to reduce
their tariffs not only on one item but on a wide range of items,
imagine the confusion which would occur if each item became
involved in the same procedure adopted by the US on meat.
Each nation has built-in safeguards under GATT to take
action against dumping or to apply quotas against goods which
are harming local industry. But quite often it is possible to
take only belated protective action after the damage is done.
Hence Australia’s experience in appointing a Special Advisory
Authority (Sir Frank Meere) to hear urgent requests.
When it gets down to local fines for selling imports, how-
ever, plus government action to bolster prices, various nations
must ask themselves if they can afford to run the risk of freer
imports, particularly if they fear their exports will receive
hostile treatment. The message seems to be that freer trade
is possible only if convenient.
Dumping, Price-cutting
Prod US Trade Review
"JV/lore is likely to be heard in the US about dumping legis-
lation. Lobbyists for large basic industries like steel and
aluminium are pressing their claims for international rules on
dumping. They also are agitating for uniform tariff scales,
claiming that overseas tariffs should be reduced to the US
level or, alternatively, US tariffs raised to overseas levels,
particularly in Europe.
Some countries are severe with their anti-dumping legisla-
tion and it is being claimed in Washington that US legislation
is inadequate in its interpretation of dumping and therefore is
at a disadvantage. Great importance is attached to a com-
plaint by US Steel Corporation against low-priced steel imports,
and this is regarded as a test case. Australia could be involved
over steel reinforcing bars.
Other items which affect Australia include chromic acid,
which is being investigated for a dumping price violation.
Although these items are only a small facet of the overall
plan for free trade (aimed at closing the trade gap), it is indi-
cative that trade lists will receive a vigorous scanning in the
future.
The US Administration obviously is concerned at reports of
price-cutting in American industries caused by severe import
competition, it finds no room for complacency in West Ger-
many’s report that it now enjoys 20 p.c. of world trade and is
only just shaded by the USA.
It is no satisfaction to know that in enjoying this trade boom,
West Germany sends more than a third of her exports to Com-
mon Market countries and therefore could be vulnerable.
More to the point is the fact that West Germany is achieving
trade surplus of around 1.5 billion dollars at the moment.
Included in this, of course, is the tremendous benefit to West
Germany of dollar-spending US troops, tourists, etc., all of
which have helped to bolster the strength of the D/mark and
assisted in encouraging the inflow of outside capital.
No wonder US lobbyists would like to see uniform tariffs so
that Common Market countries cannot hide behind their tariff
barrier.
Unilever’s Pattern of Advance
HThe huge Unilever group, including the NV (Dutch) com-
A ponent, lifted pre-tax profits from £stglo6.6 million
to £stgl 18.7 million in 1963. Sales to third parties went up
by <£sB million to £1535 million.
Unilever's American subsidiary is one of the principal
parties in the local food and grocery war. No doubt its rivals
are wondering if the overall group advance reflects anything
of the domestic scene.
Detergents gave the world organisation the biggest contri-
bution to profits’ increase. Then came “useful gains” by quick-
frozen foods, dried soup and ice cream. All these lines are
prominent throughout Australia.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Choices in Economic Evils
The task of bottling up excess liquidity
A T this stage in their battle to moderate
the effect of rising effective demand
on resources, there must be some doubt
as to how successful the authorities will
be in bottling up the excess liquidity jn
the system through their policy of call-
ups to special deposits and open market
sales of bonds, coupled with issues of
new scrip such as the latest £77 million
bond issue.
Even given no weakening in the pro-
pensity to save, the task is a heavy and
continuing one in which the Reserve
Bank deserves a rather more co-operative
attitude on the part of the trading banks
who would, by implication at any rate,
like to see much more emphasis on open
market policy with the idea of levering
up interest rates and less on call-ups
which militate against their earnings.
The trading banks would also like to
see the activisation of their deposits
coming more through the higher usage
of borrowing limits rather than through
the direct lending of funds by customers
through the inter-company borrowing
market.
Their coolness to the Reserve Bank is
the more understandable as they’ve been
pressing the authorities to let them
charge a commitment fee on unused
overdraft limits which would drive more
borrowing business in their direction.
buying into this private fight
" between the trading banks and the
authorities, it does seem that trading
banks have a point, though at this
juncture it is more important nationally
that the activisation of deposits and bank
lending are both restrained than that
lending business is being side-tracked
from the banks by inter-company
borrowing activities.
For that reason, and without taking
into account the possibility of an increase
in the velocity of circulation in the
coming months, one would press ever
more strongly the case for further big
immobilisations of trading bank deposits
in SRD as the most certain method of
preventing a boil-over. But open market
policy would also seem to be of para-
mount importance even if this is used
more for the purpose of preventing a
further rise in bond prices rather than
with the idea that the Reserve Bank
could succeed in inducing an increase in
interest rates through bond dealings. The
Bank is caught a little between the
present welter of liquidity and its own
depleted bond holdings.
If an increase in interest rates would,
in fact, assist to reduce the overall
impact of the record supply of money
on economic activity, the best probable
route for such an increase would seem
to be through bank rates. After all, this
was the route chosen for reducing in-
terest rates in April last year.
YlThile one wouldn’t personally expect
" the results from an increase in bank
interest rates at this juncture to be as
satisfying for the economy as those from
last year's reduction (which, it will be
remembered, were very rapidly reflected
in the bond market), nonetheless at a
time of price stability such as at present,
increases in interest rates tend to have
a much more powerful braking effect on
economic activity than when prices are
rising and when the “natural” interest
rate rather than the actual interest rate
is the determinant of the effectiveness of
interest rate policy.
However, not only would it be difficult
to make an increase in interest rates
effective in present conditions of high
liquidity, but it would also seem to be
a little late in the current investment
cycle, when profit expectations are most
favorable, for a rise in interest rates to
have any marked effect in reducing the
marginal efficiency of capital.
True, prices are stable now, but
borrowing expectations are currently
taking account of the probability not
only that prices will rise later this year
but also that, given that probability, the
rise in profits would accelerate.
Needless to say this is not a situation
the authorities can relish very much, and
it may be that their concentrating for
the most part on call-ups to SRD is a
tacit recognition of it, that their best
chance of success lies in fact in immobi-
lising an increasing proportion of the ex-
cess money pouring into the bank depo-
sits rather than taking any steps to curb
borrowing.
So they are giving call-ups priority
and by judicious selling of bonds
attempting to offset the effects of flush
liquidity on bond prices. This may be
enough for the present, but later on they
will have to think of something else
should bank advances begin to rise
sharply after April.
As the ultifnate and continuing object
of the authorities in this highly charged
monetary climate is to moderate the
influence of the super-flush liquidity on
the level of effective demand, it comes
as a shock to find one newspaper
economist saying quite blandly that “now
is the time for the Federal Government
to try out the stimulating effect of tax
reductions.” And if that isn’t enough to
make the authorities despair of the Press,
he followed it up by this invitation to
an investment boom “reduce interest
rates while money is freely available.”
To suggest these courses is simply to
ignore the current realities of the
economic scene. The most important of
these is that with all sources of income
generation going flat out and being fed
by the biggest pool of capital funds yet
known here, effective demand is being
blown up to boomlike proportions.
A cut in taxation would directly in-
crease effective demand still further
while a reduction in interest rates would
almost certainly give another boost to
an already record level of investment
and so indirectly still further increase
effective demand.
One might add to these arguments the
further one that on top of the increase
in effective demand is also likely to be
imposed a rise in wage rates as a result
of the Arbitration Commission’s current
hearing. Here Mr Hawke, for the unions,
has stressed the strength of all the
economic indicators in his arguments
supporting a rise.
AlThatever may be said on economic
” strength or on the score of justice to
employees, this matter has to be looked
at on the same grounds as for cuts in
taxation and interest reductions. It can-
not be argued that simply because the
economy is strong, a rise in the basic
wage is warranted any more than cuts in
taxation or interest rates are warranted.
The point is that all three would give
a lift to effective demand and the crucial
matter for the Arbitration Commission
as well as for the authorities is to deter-
mine whether it would be dangerous for
the economy at this stage to spill out
more of it into the spending stream by
any or all of these routes.
So far as the wages issue goes, it may
be a question of how sophisticated a
view of the economic position the Arbi-
tration Commission takes. In previous
cases it has preferred to take a rather
narrow view and recently based its in-
creases strictly on capacity to pay with-
out worrying too much about considera-
tions such as inflationary effects.
That being so, one would expect it
again on this occasion to lift the basic
wage by <£l or so a week. For that
reason, the authorities would be obliged
to take counter-action to offset the effect
of the rise on effective demand.
Thus, if the authorities have any pre-
sent predilections to increase rates and
taxes, a rise of £1 in the basic wage
would doubtless strengthen them.


“CROESUS”
Bread and Butter for Liquidators
Why so many companies have failed
HThe Victorian branch of the Chartered
Institute of Secretaries should be
commended on its choice of speakers for
its current series of lectures inquiring
into company failures.
Mr J. G. Whelan, an accountant from
the Auditor-General's Department who
is seconded to the Company Squad of
the Victorian Police, came along last
week to outline the range of practices
investigated by the Squad. Before him,
Mr G. R. Thompson, a well-known
liquidator (he has been exclusively
occupied in that business for the last 12
years) expounded the theme that the
credit squeeze was not the basic cause
of business failures, and Sir Alexander
Fitzgerald, doyen accountant, spoke on
the same subject.
As might be expected, Mr Whelan
emphasised the point that the main area
of abuse (which quite frankly doesn't
seem even yet to have been entirely re-
moved by amendments to the Companies
Acts) lies in the dealings between public
and proprietary companies, though the
hard core of cases which the Company
Squad is called on to investigate is, as
Mr Whelan explained, concerned with
internal manipulations within individual
companies.
The Squad relies both on the Crimes
Act and the Companies. Act, the former
for its authority to investigate as well as
to prosecute a variety of charges in-
cluding frauds by officers and directors,
presentation of incorrect statements of
account, inter-company manipulation,
etc.
Examples were quoted of a variety of
offences investigated by the Squad under
the Companies Act, the “kite flying”
manoeuvre used to disguise the true
position of a company, illicit ways of
securing the minimum subscription to a
prospectus, dummies instituted for bank-
rupts who are disqualified from being
managers or directors, dealing in a com-
pany’s own shares and many others.
Tt may seem that a squad of only 27 (of
A whom 8 are detectives) is pretty
small considering that on January 31
this year there were 38,265 locally in-
corporated companies (of which about
5 p.c. were public and the remainder
proprietaries) and 2870 foreign com-
panies registered in Victoria.
But, as Mr Whelan said, the Company
Squad doesn't usually initiate inquiries
out of the blue. It acts only on informa-
tion received and on reference. It gets
its information mostly from letters, mem-
bers of the staffs of companies, from
creditors and shareholders, and its refe-
rences mainly from the Attorney-Gene-
ral’s Department.
However, the Company Squad is not
the only sanction. As somebody in the
audience mentioned, there is also the
Taxation Department, the final arbiter.
After listening to Mr Whelan's account
of the difficulties of auditors and the
Company Squad in pursuing charges in
the Courts, one wondered whether trial
by jury was a satisfactory method of
getting justice in cases of breaches of
the Companies Act and Crimes Act.
According to Mr Whelan the per-
ception and understanding of most
barristers on matters of company law
leaves a lot to be desired, not to speak
of juries and witnesses.
There seems to be a case for consider-
ing the institution of special courts for
hearing company law charges brought by
the Crown. If the law itself is not an
ass, it certainly has to listen to a lot of
asses in this particular field. Apparently
the Squad lost a case which revolved
round the keeping of a company’s books
in pencil.
'C'raud is one thing, genuine errors by
management are another, and in his
experience of dealing almost exclusively
with business failures over the last 12
years, Mr Thompson told the Institute
that these rather than the credit squeeze
had been the basic cause of the spate
of company failures in the last few years.
“The elements which cause commercial
failure were already present,” he said,
“and the squeeze was the catalyst which
split the companies affected along their
basic faults.
“While one must feel a g eat deal of
sympathy for the large number of people
who have suffered hardship from the
collapses of recent years, I feel bound
* to say that their losses have arisen, in
the main, from overlooking the basic
fact that where there is a high return
there is invariably a high risk. To that
I know no exception.”
Instancing the three main causes of
business failure, Mr Thompson said that,
these were not new. “The old combina-
tion of inexperience, mismanagement and
under-capitalisation has been at work to
provide needy liquidators with their
bread and butter.”
The most common error in manage-
ment, said Mr Thompson, was the de-
parture from basic accountancy doctrines
and conventions, in particular the “doct-
rine of conservatism” and the “recogni-
tion of law” convention.
On the former he said that departure
had been most evident in companies and
groups engaged in land development,
which includes all the commercial
empires that have tumbled in recent
years.
“The common practice of writing up
the value of land purchases for sub-
division above the saleable value has so
inflated the balance sheet that it has in-
duced management to take unwarranted
financial risks and creditors to provide
finance beyond the capacity of the debtor
company to finance it.”
TTe commended company secretaries to
the exercise of reducing the balance
sheet to the dimensions of a statement
of affairs from time to time as a deterrent
to rash ventures by management. He
also suggested that it was prudent policy
as a preliminary to any discussions to a
takeover that management require more
accurate figures than the dreams of a
salesman.
Again, he said, “it is surely axiomatic
that a company cannot finance an in-
vestment which will not become pro-
ductive under 25 years, by notes or de-
bentures which mature in 10 years, but
in varying degrees this error in financial
management is rife. The buoyancy of
the loan market has masked this danger,
but most recent large failures have been
precipitated by the removal of this mask.
“Many smaller companies have failed
over the years because of reliance on
the short-term funds provided by trade
credit and bank overdraft. I know of
no absolute cure to under-capitalisation
other than a transfusion of equity
capital.”
Finally Mr Thompson said many
recent failures had their root in the
acceptance of over-subscriptions without
adequate capacity to service such funds:
“Up to the end of 1960, note and de-
benture issues were heavily oversub-
scribed and these were gratefully accepted
by the companies concerned.
“This embarrassment of riches led to
an unprecedented number of hasty
‘takeover’ moves following the current
craze of diversification.
“The result was that boards, which
could claim some experience and com-
petence in a particular field of industry
or commerce, found themselves in con-
trol of completely unrelated industries
without the capacity to recognise and
control the problems peculiar to those
industries and without the proper appre-
ciation of the capitalisation required.
This led to a combination of inexperience
and under-capitalisation which is invari-
ably fatal.”


Transport Industry Vital to Australia
Fuel tax urged to replace present road tax
As a vital industry, transport is
sharing in Australia’s prosperity. It
is one of the “invisibles” and so no
precise estimate of its value can be
made, but economists put its worth
between 20 and 30 p.c. of the gross
national product. Its importance,
then, cannot be underestimated.
Executives .of the companies in-
terviewed by The Bulletin last
week called for abolition of the
present road tax and, in its place,
a fuel tax which all motorists
would share.
City congestion and poor access
roads to the cities are among the
transporters’ biggest headaches.
TThe transport industry at present is
A flourishing and is likely to continue
that way as long as Australia’s economy
remains buoyant.
Five of the big companies in the
field Brambles, Yellow Express,
Mayne Nickless, F. H. Stephens and
Thomas Nationwide Transport (TNT)
have recently reported rising profits. This
is an indicator of the buoyant economy,
since the growth rate in the transport
industry, said one executive, is approxi-
mately 20 p.c.
Another indication of the solid posi-
tion transport companies now enjoy is
the number of heavy vehicles registered
on NSW roads. The number has risen
from below 40,000 in 1958 to well over
45,000 last year.
Some idea of the size of the trans-
port industry can be gained from the
fact that it employs 441,550 people. In
1963 it transported 315,824,000 tons of
goods and used 681,272,000 gallons of
petrol and diesel fuel approximately
20 to 25 p.c. of the Australian petroleum
industry’s output. More than 158,000
drivers are employed and last year their
payroll totalled £203,135,000.
Mr G. H. Yates, secretary of the Long
Distance Road Transport Association,
said evidence of greater industrialisation
in Western Australia was shown in
transport figures between that State and
the eastern States. In 1962 the weight of
goods transported from the eastern States
to Perth totalled 65,840 tons and was
carried by 4703 vehicles. In 1963 it
totalled 86,680 tons and was carried by
6120 trucks, 5664 of which used the
piggyback system offered by the Com-
monwealth Railways. The remaining 456
went all the way by road.
Tn 1962 a total of 17,890 tons of
goods was transported to the eastern-
States from Perth. Last year the figure
totalled 39,180 tons. Increased indus-
trialisation in Western Australia, such
as Chamberlain tractors which are now
being transported solely by road to the
eastern States, is reducing the State’s
trade deficit and transport is helping in
no small way.
About 80 per cent of road transport
in Australia is performed by owner
drivers who sub-contract to transport
companies.
Several developments in transport in
Australia recently have contributed to
the success of the industry. Not the least
is the standard gauge railway between
Sydney and Melbourne. This has given
rise to the use of imported transport
techniques such as flexivans articu-
lated transports which drive their trail-
ing container on to rail cars for trans-
port to other loading centres.
A table of both road transporters and
railways’ charges follows:
AVERAGE CHARGES MADE BY TRANSPORTERS,
DOOR-TO-DOOR SERVICE USING ROAD AND RAIL
Syd. to —• Newc. Melb. Perth Bris.
1 qr. 12s. 19s. £l.l Is. £1
2 qr. 14s. £l.ss. £2.35. £l.6s.
1 cwt. £1 £1.155. £3.105. £l.lBs.
5 cwt. £3 £5.75. £13.185. £5.185.
10 cwt. £5 £3.125. £25.65. £9.145.
15 cwt. £6 £11,75. £36.25. £12.105.
1 ton £7 £12.105. £44.185. £13.155.
Weights over one ton are usually by quotation.
NSW GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS FREIGHT CHARGES
Syd. to — Newc. Melb. Perth Bris.
1 qr. 2s. lOd. 9s. lOd. £1.195. 13s.
2 qr. 4s. lid. 12s. Bd. £2.8.2 18s. sd.
1 cwt. 9s. Id. 15s. Bd. £3.6.4 £1.1.3
5 cwt. £2.0.6 £3.13.9 £16.4.U £4.9.4*
10 cwt. £4.ls. £7.7.6 £32.8.3 £8.18.84
15 cwt. £6.1.6 £11.1.3 E13.8.0J
1 ton £B.2s. £14.155. £64.16.5 £17.17.5
Because of the complexity of railway
charges the above table is for second
class traffic and is the highest rate
charged. Only about 25 per cent of rail
traffic travels on second class rates. The
class includes furniture, footwear, cloth-
ing, general goods, small consignments
of groceries and hardware.
With livestock, where transporters are
confined mainly to one-man or small
family businesses, charges are hard to
ascertain. It could be reasonably assum-
ed, however, that the following charges
are similar to those made by private con-
cerns: —
NSW GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS
LIVESTOCK RATES
Flemington
(Syd.) to — Newc. Melb. Perth Bris.
Sheep T > £219.3.6 £64.15.2
[ £18.75. [ £61,55.
Cattle ) ) £222.165. £68.11.6
The above rates are based on average
truckloads of 100 sheep and 12 cattle.
The transport business is open to any-
one “there are no restrictive trade
practices in the industry” said an execu-
tive of one of the largest companies in
the field. “With the possible exception
of Canada, Australia has one of the
freest transport systems in the world.”
Some of the transport companies would
like to see abolished the NSW system of
road tax applied to hauliers. A higher
fuel tax on distillate (since most trans-
ports are diesel) would prevent road
tax avoidance and would be easier to
collect.
“The tax could also be applied to
petrol to provide a better road system,”
one executive said. “The present system
of main roads is pretty good, but exten-
sions and improvements will certainly be-
come necessary in a few years.
“We expect to pay our fair share for
the use of the roads but we feel that the
present system is costly to operate, and
the charges are too high because of some
operators who avoid paying.”
'C'conomic adviser to the AMP Society,
Dr Harold F. Bell, in an address to
the Royal Automobile Club’s traffic
symposium recently suggested there were
three ways to raise finance for roads. The
first would be a road fund with revenue
directed solely to extension and improve-
ment of roads.
A second approach was to regard the
needs of road financing as merely one of
the many claims on the Exchequer and
to allocate for road financing such pro-
portion of revenue as seems justified in
the light of the prevailing circumstances,
irrespective of the contribution made to
public revenue by taxes or other imposts
specifically imposed on road users.
A third approach was to adopt some
form of compromise between the two
methods already mentioned in which
there was some gesture which appeared
to identify part or all of the general
expenditure on road finance as having
been raised by some or all of particular
taxes levied on road users.
Then he continued: “Transport is a
highly significant factor in costs and be-
cause of our geographical situation and
because of our limited and unevenly dis-
tributed population within a country of
large size, transport costs are of the
greatest significance for us both in rela-
tion to internal costs and export compe-
tition.
“To the extent that an improved trans-
port system will certainly aid the growth
of our productivity, the additional cost


ill; II
I can really appreciate
the advantages
of group judgement ...
•.. that’s why I appointed Perpetual
Trustee as executor of my Will. It’s
satisfying to know that when an
important decision affecting a trust
or estate must be made it receives
the personal attention of many
widely experienced senior officers of
the Company.
Specialising in the careful and
efficient administration of estates for
over seventy-five years, Perpetual
has every facility to act as executor
of your Will, either alone, or jointly
with a friend or relative.
If you’re revising or making a
Will you are invited to discuss the
many ways in which Perpetual can
assist both you and your dependants.
No appointment is necessary and
there’s no of course . . •
make a point of calling soon!
Ask Perpetual today for a free
information booklet outlining the
Company’s many services.
TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney. Telephone 2 0377
Offices at Newcastle, Wollongong,
Orange and Tamworth
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA) LTD.
M.L.C. BUILDING, PETRIE STREET, CANBERRA, A.C.T.
"PUT YOUR TRUST IN PERPETUAL 1
imposed may well be in large measure
self-financing.
And to the extent that an unsatisfac-
tory transport system impedes the growth
of national productivity we merely ag-
gravate the problem for the future,” Dr
Bell added.
Of great cost to hauliers is city traffic
congestion.
“Roads now are fabulous compared
with ten years ago,” said a haulier, “but
while main roads have been improved,
city roads certainly have not and hold-
ups in traffic add tremendously to our
bills. Sometimes just getting through, a
city can cost as much as 100 miles on
the open road.”
Mr Peter Antill, chairman of the
Freight Forwarders’ Association and for-
mer managing director of Antill Ranger
which was taken over by Mayne Nickless
in 1962, said the imposition of a ton
mile tax on road transporters had kept
Australia’s manufacturing industries on
the coast. Mr Antill, who now acts as a
consultant for Mayne Nickless, said if
the ton mile tax was dropped and a fuel
tax substituted it would be possible for
many industries to move away from the
seaboard.
“At present a manufacturer in the
west of NSW has to pay tremendously
high charges to have his products trans-
ported by road to the big cities. A ton
mile tax is discriminatory because it
taxes the heavier vehicles. It encourages
operators to overload vehicles since the
tax is imposed on a vehicle’s all-up
weight, and not on the load it carries.
The best tax of all is the fuel tax, be-
cause it is self-collecting and does not
require inspectors who are used at pre-
sent to collect the road tax.
“It also encourages operators to keep
their equipment in first-class condition to
return the best miles per gallon. There
has been talk of other forms of tax
such as on tyres, but the best form would
be on fuel. At present the tax on distil-
late is Is. a gallon and on petrol 11 Id.
a gallon.”
TC/|r. Antill’s views on the future of the
-*'"'**■ transport industry are similar to
those held by executives of other com-
panies: “Estimates of our contribution to
the gross national product range between
20 and 30 p.c. so our future is pretty
sound. We are basic to Australia’s econ-
omy, for without transport there would
be no industry.
“The only threat to our future is the
railways. If they reduce charges and are
willing to accept a deficit there is no-
thing we can do to compete since com-
panies cannot afford losses.”
But new developments in road trans-
port in Australia have meant co-opera-
tion, not competition, with railways. The
flexivan and piggyback system (where the
whole truck is loaded on the rail car)
show promise provided satisfactory
charges can be negotiated with railways.
“The Commonwealth Railways are
going in for this piggyback system in
a big way,” said Mr Antill, “although I
can’t work out why they charge more for
the trailer travelling alone then they do
for the prime mover and trailer travel-
ling together.
“Another development has been the
introduction of sleeper cabs which are
provided with a bed for a relief driver.
We’ve found that with two drivers
efficiency is increased and the accident
rate has dropped sharply. Drivers, in-
stead of being paid on a 40-hour week
basis, are now being paid on a mileage
basis, although they are still limited to
driving stretches of a maximum 12
hours.”
The transport industry’s importance
cannot be denied, nor ignored. Its future
is sound provided it is treated properly
by the responsible bodies.


INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
Because we believe that "The Bulletin" is an up and coming journal, we have
selected it as a medium for our first advertisement.
Previously we have not sought to make our services known through the Press but
events of recent years may have convinced some investors that professional management
of larger investment portfolios may be desirable.
The successful management of investment portfolios requires not only detailed
analysis of individual securities but also the appropriate combination of a number of
securities to achieve the optimum effective yield.
We believe that we are able to provide such management (as well as taking on
all the paper work involved in the day by day transactions).
We invite enquiries from the Trustees of Pension Funds, Directors of Investment
Companies and the Individual Investor.
FINANCIAL AND SECURITY ANALYSIS PTY. LIMITED
Box 2961, G.P.0., Sydney
McKSNLEY WILSON & CO.
AJAX HOUSE, 105 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE.
J. GORDON M. MOFFATT
CHRISTOPHER R. HOWLETT
LAWRENCE G. VINEY
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
OF MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE: 67-8701, 67-8044 (14 lines)
MARKET POINTERS
Any Nervous Chartists?
Tnvestors who follow cyclical charts on
Stock Exchange movements (and
they are not as addicted in Australia as
in the US) may ponder on the steady rise
in ordinary share prices for several years
prior to the December, 1960 (credit
squeeze) downturn. If they relate this
to the current market, which has enjoyed
more than a three-year rise to a new
peak, they may start puzzling about how
far this upward trend can be projected.
On statistical evidence, there is plenty
of justification for believing that most
of 1964 should continue to remain a
buoyant year for share prices, with the
authorities struggling hard to keep in-
flation in check.
When statistics look better than they
have been for a long time (aided in no
small measure by unexpectedly good
exports) there is always some outside
influence which comes along to spoil
things.
While Australia is emerging from a
restrictive period where prices remained
stable and, in fact, tumbled in some in-
stances (TV sets, refrigerators and other
domestic consumer goods), other coun-
tries which enjoyed boom conditions may
now be tapering off. And, with so many
political flash-points in the world today,
consideration must be given to the likely
effects on the economy if war breaks
out in, say, Cyprus, Malaysia, or else-
where.
Outside influences would appear to
pose the greatest threat in 1964, and
while the Cuban crisis may have meant
extra sugar sales, a big question mark
hangs over a flare-up closer home, such
as war in Malaysia, with a consequent
interruption to shipping and possibly
more serious developments.
The investor is forced to shrug off
these possibilities, because if he allowed
himself to be panicked by every war
rumble, he would be a complete wreck
and would have dissipated his savings
by getting in and out of the market on
countless needless occasions.
★ ★ ★
T ooking intently at interim reports, it
would be foolish to praise all the
good reports and ignore the not-so-good.
Record profits don’t mean a thing if the
share capital commitment is higher and
earning rate is down.
And, with prices pushed higher by
the general market advance, over-
optimism could be dangerous.
★ ★ ★
T ooking around for under-priced stocks
in a market jogging along at peak
levels is a hard task. But one method is
to scan those companies which faltered
in recent years and are currently making
some recovery. One of these might be
WORMALD BROTHERS INDUS-
TRIES which slashed its dividend from
10 to 5 p.c. in 1962-63. Latest interim is
up from 2i p.c. to 3 p.c. and if the en-
couraging interim report from the direc-
tors can be maintained to June, the shares
could improve. However, the price jum-
ped to Bs. after the announcement to
yield only 3.7 p.c. If they come back
below this, they may be worth picking up.
★ ★ ★
A few keen observers have been taking
A a punt on WAUGH AND JOSEPH-
SON 20 s. shares at below par, hoping
that the upsurge in government spending
on public works, etc., and the buoyant
agricultural incomes would give the
company a much needed lift this year.
At prices below par, this appears a
reasonable speculation. The more
cautious, however, may prefer to take
less profit by going for the 20s. notes
selling at 19s. 6 d. to yield 7.1 p.c. If
the shares go up, they will follow, at least
some of the way.
★ ★ ★
T>LANET OIL, scheduled last week to
spud in at Heathfield No. 1, in the
Otway Basin, near Casterton (Vic.) has
been rising in the market as the drilling
date drew nigh. This is the usual pat-
tern and speculators who buy in advance
of drilling operations can clear a few
pence or even write an option at a price
higher than their purchase.
Early buyers of Planet shares, after
paying the Is. call last August, are show-
ing paper losses on the current market,
so they will be anxious to see some results
from the new drilling programme. It is
some surprise, however, to note that the
company also plans a joint venture to
prospect for base metals “at no cost to
Planet”.
Investors will be interested indeed to
read more details of a venture that costs
them nothing, although as oil speculators
they are keener to see an oil strike.
Everybody keep your fingers crossed.


HOW
do you measure the audience
for a TV documentary?
SIZE
You can always make the simple media evaluation —cost per thousand, and no matter
which survey you consult, for all capital cities, you’ll find Project ’64 represents real
value in sheer numbers.
QUALITY
But there’s another consideration—take a look beyond the straight rating—to the A
and B class homes—to the ages of the viewers—to the male/female differential.
Project ’64 offers an audience of rare quality.
IMAGE
People are known by the company they keep, people believe in products that are
keeping company with “nice atmosphere” programmes. People believe, and quite
rightly so, that products associated with “value” programmes are value products.
no matter HOW YOU LOOK at it . . .
PROJECT
64
is one of the most
stimulating of all recent
Australian TV concepts
All the best types of people are sold on Project ’64
&
%
THE NATIONAL TELEVISION NETWORK
■ *:;*
afSSJgWSf
SALES SYDNEY: Ist Floor, Cricket House, George St. 27-2881 MELBOURNE: 247 Collin. ..
STUDIO & TRANSMITTEF
km
TCN 9 SYDNEY—A KEY STATION OF THE NATIONAL TELEVISION NETWORK
H


SWISSAIR
chefs just go for gour-
met guests. You'll love
the way they pamper
your palate. For an
extremely palatable
flight to Europe - fly
Swissair. You can
join a Swissair flight
almost anywhere in the
world.
Swisscare can start for you in the Far
East. Board a ‘Coronado’ Jet in Tokyo,
Hong Kong, Manila or Bangkok and fly,
overnight, to Europe. See your Travel
Agent about your Swissair business-
With-pleasure trip.
■h
SWISSAIR
General Sales Agents:
Australia - ANSETT-A.N.A.
New Zealand and Pacific Islands TEAL
As a delectable Hors D’oeuvre
we invite you to visit Switzerland and include
festivals of Swiss industry, art and culture ...
LAUSANNE
EXPOSITION
April to October, 1964
also
SWISS INDUSTRIES
FAIR
Basle April 11 to 21,1964
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock Exchange
56 HUNTER STREET
SYDNEY
Telephone; 28-5721
Telegrams: Lagram, Sydney
INVESTMENT SECTION
The Lagging Engineers
Industry set for an overall recovery
Melbourne Stock Exchange share
price index for engineering and steel
stocks recorded a 4 p.c. gain from July
31 to the middle of last month. This
is very poor in the light of the 10 p.c
improvement shown by the all ordinaries
index.
In fact, the gain was the smallest made
by any group during that time. Even the
electrical dealers and the chemical manu-
facturers’ shares rose 6 p.c. The biggest
lifts were scored by transport and
pastoral scrip which rose 28 p.c. and 25
p.c. respectively.
These percentage discrepancies have
been put forward by some stockbrokers
as sufficient justification for an invest-
ment in a few chosen engineering firms.
By and large, this industry was hit
hard by the credit squeeze. Many manu-
facturers, particularly those supplying
heavy equipment, were suddenly faced
with an over-capacity problem which
had not been foreseen during the 1959
and 1960 boom. The recession of 1961
and 1962 saw overheads eating heartily
into the few profitable contracts which
were obtained.
Eleven firms were singled out as the
best buys—A. Goninan, Evans Deakin,
FMC, Gerrard, Hills, H. P. Gregory,
International Combustion, James Bell,
Johns and Waywood, Malcolm Moore,
and Marfleet and Weight.
Needless to say few could afford to
buy a parcel in every company, but the
difficulty of deciding on one or two
happens to be rather extreme. This is
indicated by the fact that no broker
ventured to recommend any particular
firm—Gerrard gained favorable mentions
for its own virtues, not for those of the
industry.
Malcolm Moore has the highest
dividend yield. James Bell is the lowest
priced. International Combustion had
the highest earning rate last year and
A. Goninan holds the biggest excess of
reserves over ordinary capital.
It is fairly apparent that the industry
is set for an overall improvement of
some substance, but exactly how well
each component company will fare is
impossible to accurately ascertain.
Mr. ClementsoiEs Project
now-you-see-it, now-you-don’t
£474,000 is confusing shareholders
of Project Development Corporation Ltd.
For the information of shareholders,
who, at an extraordinary meeting, are
being asked for their approval of a pro-
posal to buy a major interest in Nor-
west Development from their managing
director, Mr E. S. Clementson, here is
a summary:
• PDC buys 800,000 10s. Norwest
shares from Mr E. S. Clementson for
£474,000.
• With this £474,000 Mr Clement-
son buys Norwest’s 86 p.c. interest in
Tangible Securities Ltd for £395,000
and extinguishes a loan of £79,000 that
Norwest had advanced him.
• Norwest lends the £474,000 to
Project Development Corporation Ltd.
In a communication to shareholders,
PDC directors estimated a return (after
charging interest and income tax) of in
excess of 271 p.c. on Norwest’s equity
capital. PDC’s share of this would repre-
sent about £llO,OOO.
An outline of Norwest’s balance sheet
after PDC’s acquisition of a majority in-
terest was put forward by PDC directors
thus:
• Assets of the meatworks and
stations £660,000; loans to PDC
£474,000; expenditure to date £10,500.
• Outside finance is provided by the
Rural Bank £200,000, vendors of the
meatworks and stations £200,000, Aus-
tralian Guarantee Corporation (loan
secured by Mr Clementson) £190,000,
a loan from Mr Clementson and the
bank £70,000.
• Capital is £484,500, of which
£84,500 will still be held by Mr
Clementson and others, while the
majority interest of 821 p.c. will then
be held by PDC.
The ss. shares of Tangible Securities
Ltd, which were recently offered to the
public at ss. 10id., sold briefly on the
market at ss. 6d., but then slipped.


m
\
is
Mr. Hiller and his craft
The Importance of a Name. It’s important to realise that there
is such a person as Mr. Ernest Hiller the label that goes on to
his suits is not a “brand name" but his own personal signature.
It’s a guarantee that the suit has been tailored to Mr. Hiller’s
demanding standards (hand detailed where only hand work
will do); that the materials are of a superb quality.
The international styling of an Ernest Hiller suit is
undisputed as is the value-for-money that goes with
every suit that carries his name. From £25.19.6.
WOOL
TROUSERS
COUNTRY
INTERNATIONALLY STYLED SUITS, SPORTCOATS AND
AT BETTER STORES IN THE CITY, SUBURBS AND
3099
The Sale WAS Profitable
some arguments to the con-
trary from financial commentators,
Concrete Industries (Monier) Ltd did pro-
duce a capital profit on disposal of Stand-
ard Portland Cement Ltd. As Standard's
earnings had multiplied 2.4 times, it
would be hard to imagine Concrete not
making a capital profit on the deal.
Cash price paid by Commonwealth
Portland Cement Co. Ltd was
£3,710,100. The capital which had been
issued by Monier three years before to
acquire Standard had a face value of
£1,140,883. The capital cost was writ-
ten up in its books to £2,773,322.
This revaluation of £1,632,439 was
therefore realised on the sale, together
with an additional profit of £936,678.
The market value of the original take-
over of Standard is quite irrelevant.
Monier's 1962-63 profit of £795,638
included £240,830 from Standard so the
loss of profit occasioned by the sale will
be difficult to replace immediately, but
with a cement war about to begin in two
States between the giants it seems diplo-
matic to withdraw.
The sale now brings substantial liquid
funds which, it is assured, will be readily
absorbed by other activities of the group.
The arrangement whereby Monier sub-
scribes to £500,000 worth of shares, at
the placement price, in the new holding
company which Commonwealth Portland
will form, gives Monier a permanent
association with the Blue Circle group.
Monier is assured concrete supplies in
Victoria, from Waurn Ponds, near Gee-
long, as well as from Commonwealth's
NSW cement works at Portland, Maldon
and now Charbon.
Coming a day after Monier’s interim
report of a 49 p.c. increase in pre-tax
profit and a lift in interim dividend from
2} to 4 p.c., it was not possible to deter-
mine a separate reaction by the market
to the news of the Standard sale.
But over the week the ss. shares pick-
ed up 6d. or so to reach about twice par,
where the yield was 4 p.c.
In a transaction involving such a large
sum, Monier shareholders would have
liked to hear from directors more speci-
fic plans for the use of funds and antici-
pated earnings.
Gillespie’s Higher Costs
/Gillespie Bros Holdings Ltd reported
a small drop in net profit for the
December half-year due to higher costs
resulting from reconstruction work.
This was described as mainly deferred
maintenance and market development
expenditure in a recently acquired sub-
sidiary, presumably Sargents Ltd, pastry-
cook, which was taken over in June,
1962.
Group sales anyway showed a good
increase over the previous corresponding
period.
Shares created by the one-for-six pre-
mium issue ranked for two-thirds of the
interim dividend of 41 p.c. All shares
now rank equally.
Shares of this highly reputed verti-
cally integrated flour miller and baker
were traded last year between the narrow
limits of 265. to 30s.
They have retreated this year from
a peak of 335. to around 30s. (yielding
3 p.c.) where they still look a little sen-
sitive to any chill wind round the
market-place.
Bonus from Boral?
Tlxcluding the profits of Mt. Lvell In-
vestments Ltd, Gas Supply Co. Ltd
and Mt. Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
Ltd, which were wholly or partly taken
over since June 30, Boral Ltd was able to
report slightly higher profit in the six
months to December.
The 20 p.c. dividend, one of the high-
est paid by a market leader, is repeated
by a 10 p.c. interim dividend.
Shareholders look forward to seeing
the next set of accounts, showing addi-
tional ramifications of the group.
The £6.3m. standing in share pre-
mium reserve at last balance date (crea-
ted in two years) will have been consider-
ably augmented by share issues for take-
over purpose in 1963-64.
A bonus issue, on very generous
terms, would be within the capacity of
the company, which could then take the
opportunity to scale dividends down to
politically safer levels.
The shares, in ss. units, are expectantly
priced at 295. 3d. and yield 3.4 p.c.
Directors reported that the Matraville
Refinery earned lower profit in the latest
six months because of increased costs
and a lower margin between landed cost
of crude oil and the selling prices of re-
fined oil products.
Near record rainfall in 1963 affected
earnings from road contracting activities.
The group produces bituminous products
and actively engages in road surfacing
works.


Whatever the occasion
one
Scotch
stands
out
■ ■ ■
VAT
69
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
%
35
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY
QUEEN ELIZABETH II
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
WM. SANOERSON & SON LTD.
WZIM/M
Pall Over Bradford
T>radford Cotton’s reduced interim
** dividend quickly took its toll of the
ss. shares. Prices dropped back to ss.
9d., 3d. below last year’s worst.
They had previously ranged between
6s. Id. and 6s. lOd. this year, never
attaining even last year’s somewhat de-
pressed 7s. 3d. Trust in most textilers
does not solidify very easily just now.
Bradford wasn't able to cover a 10 p.c.
payment in the last two years. The
interim comes down to 4 p.c., suggesting
8 p.c. for the full 1963-64 year, although
trading has apparently been improving
during the four months since October.
At this moment, of course, a renewed
plea for loftier cotton fabric tariffs is
being argued before the Tariff Board.
Bradford’s chairman, Sir Robert Web-
ster, has sounded more exasperated and
less detached than usual on these matters.
Directors were, however, forced to
take other factors into account, especial-
ly liquidity. Almost paradoxically, amid
the gloom surrounding domestic textile
manufacture, “the present high rate of
activity in the company’s mills is making
a much greater call on funds than nor-
mal”.
Looking at the enormous diversity of
production undertaken by the company,
shareholders might be pardoned doubts
that the traditional and much-praised
efficiency could still spread into every
corner. With specialisation and integra-
ton towards customer-outlets constituting
possible salvation for the Australian in-
dustry, directors’ detailed remarks on
organisation (as well as tariffs) must be
keenly awaited at the end of the current
financial year.
Meanwhile, pending an improbable
super-abundant rescue operation by the
tariff, doubts will remain.
A Leaky Profit Barrel
11/felbourne’s Southern Cross Hotel is
still losing money. The proprietors,
Southern Cross Properties, said in their
interim report that there had been “some
improvement” in trading results but pro-
fit still did not offset expenses.
Shareholders will not be particularly
surprised by the report as Sir Arthur
Smithers, the chairman, told them at
November’s annual meeting that the
hotel would need another two or three
years to get on its feet.
The main leak in the company’s pro-
fit barrel is the rent payable to the Inter-
continental Hotels Corporation 25
p.c. annually of gross profit. A similar
percentage of net profit would be less
of a burden, but taking this 25 p.c. from
the gross figure leaves the hotel with only
75 p.c. of its earnings with which to meet
expenses.
Of course, if the hotel could achieve
the 75 p.c. occupancy rate predicted in
the prospectus things would be different.
But in 1962-63 only about half of the
rooms were occupied and apparently
patronage has shown little improvement
since.
Maybe the solution to the insufficient
occupancy can be seen in the. statement
made by a shareholder that the hotel
charges were one-third higher than any
similar hotel. In reply to this at the
annual meeting. Sir Arthur said the
hotel charges and management would be
looked into.
Beneficiating Mount Morgan
Come, at least, of the metal markets’
glamor has burnished the 10s. or-
dinaries of Mount Morgan Ltd. At 15s.
3d. they are now holding around their
best level for a number of years.
After 1962-63’s heavy profit decline
(the fourth in a row) the shares could
only struggle as high as 13s. lid. during
1963 and actually hit a low of 9s. 6d.
Prices have run much more consistently
since the start of 1964.
One sentence from the latest interim
report may be principally responsible for
keeping share levels fairly steady. Fol-
lowing output details for the first 28
weeks of 1963-64, directors comment:
‘The value of the increase in copper
production more than offset the reduction
in gold, and profits earned are adequate
to cover the interim dividend”.
That’s a rather different tale from the
corresponding sentence in the last annual
report, which read: “The reduced profit
was accounted for by the lower value
of the ore mined and treated during the
year, the higher gold grade being more
than offset by the lower grade in copper”.
The present reversal in grades comes
right at the moment to take advantage of
rising copper prices.
Investors are unlikely to get much
more excited, however. Mount Morgan’s
ore reserves don’t appear to put it in the
top class and it will be a struggle to
bring dividend anywhere near 1960’s 2s.
A share.


PI
*
A3
jL
V
Ar 6
9926 N
ANSETT
FREIGHT EXPRESS
OVERNIGHT
ROCKET
SERVICE
LEAVES FOR
MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE
SYDNEY . BRISBANE . PERTH
Telephone calls to our “pick-up” sections will he
promptly attended to by radio controlled vans which
pick up and deliver in all capital cities.
For full details and competitive rates phone
Melbourne 68 0541 Sydney 67 0533
Adelaide 45 5337 Brisbane 47 1481 Perth 24 4928
Danks Recovery Nearly Complete
interim report from Danks Hold-
ings, Melbourne-based wholesale
hardware and steel merchant, shows that
it has almost recovered fully to a truly
profitable basis. An interim 34 p.c.
was announced, indicating 7 p.c. for the
year. This will compare with last year’s
full 34 p.c., the first payout for seven
years.
The recovery started in 1961-62 when
the 1960-61 loss of £143,000 was con-
verted to a profit of £51,000. Last
year earnings jumped again to £83,000.
In the latest half-year, profit before
tax was £78,000, compared with
£42,000 previously, due mainly to in-
creased sales. Tax payable on this is
estimated at £28,000, but the full year’s
result will benefit from a £12,000 tax
reduction arising from unrecouped losses.
On the basis of these figures, 1964
should be a bright year for the company.
More Pieces of Pye
\ development and intensive tooling
programme undertaken by Pye In-
dustries Ltd has apparently strained the
company’s liquid resources.
A one-for-four par issue, the first since
Pye of England acquired a half interest
in 1955 when the company was known
as Tecnico Ltd, is to be made to bring
paid capital up to £906,875.
The company, whose parent mostly
makes TV receivers, had a bumper year
in the last 12 months to March 31, and
the earning rate popped up from 21.2 to
43 p.c. Directors need not have said
they expected to hold the 10 p.c. divi-
dend rate.
The 20s. shares, which lately sold
around 935. before the share issue
announcement, will also be split to ss.
units. Meanwhile they will continue to
be hard to get.
Earning Rate “Normal ,,
QJtramit Boards of Melbourne is ex-
panding rapidly. It now has divi-
sions in Brooklyn, Bendigo, Dee Why
(NSW) and Canberra, and at Brisbane
where the first stage of a new factory
will be operating by the end of the
month.
The interim report showed that last
year’s amazing recovery in profit from
£5830 to £106,641 was no flash in
the pan. Earning rate in the half-year,
expressed on an annual basis, moved
from 25.8 to 30 p.c., which equals about
£62,000.
Directors even went so far as to say
that this performance could be regarded
as “normal” under present conditions,
whereas, 12 months ago, it would have
been dubbed “exceptional”.
One must conclude from this state-
ment that the earning rate will not neces-
sarily be maintained in future years be-
cause the present conditions in the build-
ing industry are extremely buoyant.
Nevertheless, Stramit is making the most
of its prosperous run.
Blinds Go Up
TTunter Douglas Ltd has made some
recovery in the first half of 1963-64.
Directors report that sales and profit
were ahead of the same period last year.
Better economic conditions, vigorous
advertising and merchandising, and new
products contributed to the improve-
ment, they said.
The company fabricates aluminium
and makes Venetian blinds at Rydal-
mere (NSW).
Last year to June, its profit fell from
£221,305 to £160,535 because of higher
costs, particularly costs of establishing
new products. The earning rate was then
11.4 p.c.
A second interim of 24 p.c. is being
paid to suit new foreign tax legislation,
primarily for the benefit of the overseas
Hunter Douglas group which is a major
shareholder.
The 20s. shares are now valued at
41s. to return 4.9 p.c. on a steady 10 p.c.
dividend.
Timber Merchant in Trouble
TT. Beecham is one timber merchant
that has failed to turn the upsurge
in building activity to its advantage. A
small loss was incurred in the half-year
to December last, after reduced profit
margins nullified a small turnover in-
crease.
It is not nice to see this company
sliding back after the relatively solid life
it has led regular 8 p.c. dividends were
paid from 1952 until last year when
nothing was distributed after profit
slumped from £31,153 to £5015.
The slump was attributed to price-
cutting, the cost of building up new
business lines and the disruption caused
by moving activities from Lonsdale Street
in the city to Altona North. This move
has now reached the stage where the
city property can be auctioned, so pro-
fitability could show an upturn once the
whole business of shifting is taken off
directors’ hands.
Perhaps the concentration at Altona
will help cut costs in the 1964-65 year
and the new hardware lines will prove
successful enough to combine with these
lower costs in producing a profit and
reinstating the company as a dividend
payer.
H-P Financing Troubles
the £467,048 non-recur-
ring items from the 1962 profit, lAC
(Holdings) Ltd reported an increase in
profit from £2,092.157 to £2,154,526
for the last calendar year.
Earning rate improved from 18.3 p.c.
to 18.9 p.c. on steady capital, and the
Ilf p.c. dividend rate is repeated.
Total outstandings, net of income yet
to mature, rose from £89.9 million to
£103.5 million. The mortgage business
showed signs of a decline.
It is believed that the number of motor


watermarks
with a
difference...
This is a selection from the 65 Wiggins Teape
watermarks.
65 qualities
of high grade paper
each with a
different watermark
There are 65 watermarked Gateway Papers with a variety of
uses—letterhead papers, ledger papers, index sheets and
systems cards, all in various qualities.
When you specify Wiggins Teape Gateway Papers, you can be
sure that you are buying the best paper for your particular
purpose. Do not be misled by watermarks in papers from
overseas and other sources which sometimes carry different
watermarks on exactly the same quality paper.
Most Wiggins Teape watermarks indicate that the paper
is Australian-made.
Wiggins Teape Gateway Papers are made at the
Shoalhaven Mill, Nowra, N.S.W.
SELECT FROM THE WIDEST RANGE OF HIGH QUALITY
WATERMARKED PAPERS MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
■W
Symbol of fine quality paper*
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • BRISBANE • PERTH
vehicle repossessions still concerns the
hire-purchase financiers. And financiers
claim that if a motor dealer is negligent
or chooses to be dishonest, the finance
companies often have little recourse un-
der existing law.
Resistance is Lower
International Resistance Holdings
Ltd has been moving the Mel-
bourne-based KLF Control Equipment
Pty Ltd. to the Marrickville (Sydney)
plant.
Relocation of manufacturing opera-
tions usually entails considerable expense
and disruption, so investors can expect
a reduction in earnings for a time, but
with the consolation that later earning
capacity will be improved.
This move and the cost of establishing
new product lines and higher wage costs
all contributed to lower profits for the
December, 1963, half-year, although
sales were higher.
The company sounds disturbed at
rising costs in industry generally, but it
would be safe enough for an outsider
to predict that 1963-64 profits will be
close to if not ahead of last year’s
£.300,058 (20.3 p.c. on capital.)
The 124 p.c. dividend is continued as
before, so the ss. shares of this highly
regarded electrical equipment maker
yield 3.6 p.c. from a purchase at 17s.


“Wales” Downed But Far From Out
Directors are moving to diversify earnings
By ROGER RANDERSON
Dank of New South Wales, although
the oldest and still the largest of
our public companies engaged in bank-
ing, is now over-shadowed by both the
Commonwealth Banking Corporation
and the Reserve Bank. Despite com-
petition from the one and suppression
by the other, this sound and efficient in-
stitution had seemed until recently to be
moving to a position where its share-
holders might expect much better returns
from their investment.
However, the most recent series of
forced loans to the Reserve Bank, which
continues to pay the negligible rate of
15s. p.c. per annum for them, will
have an adverse effect on its overdraft
planning and earnings.
The protest on behalf of all the bank-
ing companies made by the “Wales’ ”
general manager, Mr R. J. Abercrombie,
was not only timely and justified. It also
reminded the public of official banking
controls which, if continued, can only
lead to the extinction of “free enter-
prise” banking in Australia.
The Menzies Government had per-
mitted some alleviation of restrictions
on bank earnings following its near-
defeat at the 1961 election, and many
people naturally assumed that the
Government's sweeping victory at last
November’s polls would lead to fairer
banking arrangements.
Tnvestors, accordingly, during the past
A couple of years have modified their
previous realistic assessment that bank
shares are an investment in a private
industry having no long-term future,
except as poorly-paid agents of a vast
and ever-expanding Commonwealth
banking mechanism.
“Wales” shares, now of £ 1 par value,
have lately been changing hands at about
68s. 6d. which is more than double the
1962 low price of £3ll for the then
share of £2O par value. Investors are ac-
cepting a dividend yield of £2 18s. lOd.
a year for each £IOO invested, although
last year's results show an earnings yield
of about 5.3 p.c.
The market apparently is hoping for
an early cash issue, either at par or at
a low premium, especially as it notes that
the Bank is planning to spend more than
£6 million on computers and other aids
to automation.
And there is even talk about the possi-
bility of a bonus issue being made in
1967, when the Bank will celebrate its
sesqui-centenary, although the centenary
passed without one, and I am unable
to find any record of a bonus issue since
1893.
Directors, however, have to consider
the future profitability of branch bank-
ing under present conditions, besides the
effect of such issues on earnings per
share, and their ability to retain earn-
ings for expansion, so ax to prevent the
Bank lagging too far behind its official
and “fringe” competitors.
LARGEST BANKS COMPARED (£ million)
Common-
wealth Bank of
Banking N.S.W.
1963 Reserve Corpora- (Aust. &
Accounts Bank tion N.Z.)
Capital & Reserves 37.4 57.9 41.3
Liabilities including:
Note issue 430.2
Deposits, etc. 641.3 1,358.5 890.4
Other 52.1 6.4
Total funds 1,108.9 1,468.5 938.1
Assets including:
Premises, sites 5.0 22.7 15.3
Overseas funds
and gold 580.1 6.8 15.3
Austn. public
securities 395.2 727.1 285.6
Advances, etc. 114.5 418.0 . 360.6
Outside
investments
Free cash &
other liquids 14.1 150.4 161.3
S.R.D. & Term
Loan Account
Aust. 36.6 58.1
N.Z.
Savings bank
lodgement with
Reserve Bank 106.9 26.0
Total' assets 1,108.9 m 1,468.5 m 938.1 m
(Actual Figures)
Taxes & payments
in lieu thereof n.a. £1,350,292 £3,622,579
Earnings £16,575,519 £4,545,977 £3,967,770
Written off
premises n.a. £686,650 £640,482
Dividends
Payment to
Treasury £14,455,913 £1,144,867
Added to
Reserves £ 1,897,605 £2,035,542 £1,132,288
Bank of New South Wales increased
its earnings by about a quarter to
£3,967,770 in the year ended last
September 30, showing an increase from
15 to 18.1 p.c. in the earning rate on
ordinary paid-up capital of £21,950,000.
Shareholders received a 10 p.c. dividend
by quarterly instalments for 1962-63,
which called for the payment of
£2,195,000. An amount of £640,482
from the year’s earnings was applied to
writing down bank premises, which, with
sites, then stood in the books at
£15,250,000.
Reserves, gaining by the addition of
£1,132,288 from the year’s earnings,
totalled £19,343,756 on the September
balancing date.
Although this was the best result for
many a long year, the dividend was re-
duced from the previous year’s lli p.c.,
which had included a 2+ p.c. bonus,
made possible by using an excess of
provisions over tax liabilities in pre-
vious years, and the dividend henceforth
will be paid half-yearly instead of quar-
terly.
The Bank’s earnings last year are less
impressive when viewed in historical
perspective. As long ago as 1927, net
profit (after writing down premises) had
amounted to £1,226,347, showing a
20 p.c. return on the then capital of £6
million, from which shareholders re-
ceived a 124 p.c. dividend.
Earnings and dividends slumped to a
low level after 1930 and were kept down
by official controls during the war and
post-war periods. Even as late as 1953
the Bank’s net profit had not been per-
mitted to recover to its 1927 level.
"VTegligibl-e additions were made to re-
serves in 20 years of the ’thirties and
’forties, despite modest dividend pay-
ments. A deficiency of retained earnings
largely explains why directors made the
series of three cash issues (two at a pre-
mium) which increased capital from
£8,780,000 to £21,950,000 between
1953 and 1958, and added £2,676,250
of share premiums to reserves.
With the Commonwealth Bank group
rapidly expanding on capital generated
by the diversion of revenue from bank-
ing companies, the directors must have
been exasperated beyond endurance
when, in the prosperous year of 1956-57,
Bank of New South Wales was not per-
mitted to earn more than 10.4 p.c. on
its then capital of £17.6 million*
Efforts to tap supplementary sources
of revenue include the following:
1956: Savings bank started as an en-
tirely-owned subsidiary.
1957: Investment of £4,046,250 to
secure 40 p.c. interest in a hire-purchase
company, Australian Guarantee Corpora-
tion Ltd.
1958: Wales Unit Trusts started, man-
aged by an entirely-owned subsidiary.
1959: An interest (now 10 p.c.) pur-
chased in a “fringe banker”, Australian
United Corporation Ltd.
1961: An interest (6 p.c.) purchased in


another “fringe banker” having over-
seas affiliations, Darling and Company
Ltd.
1963: An interest (25 p.c.) purchased
in International Factors (Australia) Pty
Ltd; and an interest (74 p.c.) purchased
in United Telecasters Ltd.
Entirely-owned subsidiaries act as
nominees and provide custodian services,
while the latest to be formed is Wales
Properties Ltd, with initial capital of
£IOO,OOO and wide borrowing powers.
The Bank’s earnings in 1962-63 in-
cluded a dividend of about £498,000
from Australian Guarantee Corporation
Ltd, together with £829,107 earned by
its savings bank subsidiary. More than
half of the year’s increase in profit came
from these two sources.
The “Wales Savings Bank” instantly
appealed to the public. It is surprising
that politicians and officials are slow to
draw obvious inferences from the fact
that in seven years depositors’ balances
have increased to £246 million 2B
p.c. of the amount that the Common-
wealth Savings Bank has attracted from
the public in 53 years.
The official contention that the now
enormous Commonwealth group of
banks has developed “by the wish and
support of the Australian people” is open
to serious objection.
Such growth as has occurred by merit
will be widely accepted. But the extent
to which the Commonwealth banking
system has expanded in only a few recent
years is the direct result of weakening the
capacity of banking companies to serve
our industries. An enormous waste of
the nation’s real capital resources has
occurred in the duplication of banking
premises and facilities. The cost of
finance has been increased for everyone.
Although there is ample political
humbug and intellectual sophistry in
defence of this situation, I feel pro-
foundly disturbed. Political dishonesty is
involved, and the burden of present
policies falls on the users of credit in
high interest and other charges much
higher than would be possible by a
steady expansion of bank overdrafts.
“Wales” would have earned much less
than £2 million from business financing
in 1962-63 the primary purpose for
which it and other banking companies
exist after the necessary writing down
of premises. This is only 63 p.c. more
than in 1927, although shareholders have
had to increase the Bank’s capital by
about 366 p.c. since then.
The Reserve Bank last September was
preventing the “Wales” from profitably
lending or investing about £B4 million
of its funds, and had converted them to
its own use. This included almost £SO
million in Statutory Reserve Deposit, £8
million in Term Loan Fund Account
and £26 million compulsorily lodged by
its savings bank subsidiary.
In addition, the Reserve Bank had the
use of a large part of the “Wales” free
cash left in settlement accounts, on
which no interest is paid.
Since then there have been the Reserve
Bank’s three demands this year for addi-
tional Statutory Reserve Deposits on
January 8, February 5 and March 4.
I have no hesitation in stating that
these calls were not necessary to pre-
serve monetary stability. The authori-
ties show inadequate understanding of
the stabilising effect of fixed deposits.
No doubt, to soften the blow and win
public approbation, it is now proposed
that if the banks put a further £7 mil-
lion of their funds.into Term Loan Fund
Accounts with the Reserve Bank, the
latter will move £l3 million across from
their Statutory Reserve Deposits to their
Term Loan Fund Accounts.
By July there should then be a revol-
ving fund of about £96 million for term
loans. The banks, treated like children,
have to pay into the Reserve Bank the
repayment instalments, as their customers
meet them.
Qince officials in Martin Place pre-
scribe purposes for which term loans
may or may not be made, together with
charges, the Reserve Bank is by this
back-door method steadily depriving
bankers of an important element of dis-
cretion over a large segment of their
advances.
Monetary stability is not served by re-
instating war-time “advances policy”,
and nationalising bank lending, and fur-
ther detracting from the ability of banks
to finance business by overdrafts.
Returning to the recent “call-ups”, the
Reserve Bank is thus seizing assets which
are the property of other banks. It is
not “calling up bank deposits”, as is too
often erroneously stated. The banking
companies are stuck with increases in
their deposit liabilities, while the Reserve
Bank takes away corresponding assets
which otherwise would earn larger in-
come to assist the banks in meeting in-
terest and other expenses of getting de-
posits and handling transactions for their
customers.
Assets which the Reserve Bank is
taking from the banks at present are
overseas funds. The banks have bought
them by discounting their customers’
bills for exports and crediting the pro-
ceeds to the accounts of their customers,
who can draw them out when they please.
But the Reserve Bank does not part
with any of its other assets to buy these
overseas funds. It merely records its lia-
bility to the other banks first in settle-
ment accounts and then in Statutory
Reserve Deposits, which it blocks, so
that the banks cannot use them.
Banking companies incur the costs
from increases in exporters’ deposits, or
lose the interest from their overdraft re-
ductions. They are denied the com-
pensating income from the overseas funds
invested abroad less the 15s. p.c. per
annum allowed them and this income
goes to swell the Reserve Bank’s profits.
The Reserve Bank would have earned
far less than its monstrous profit of
£16,575,519 in 1962-63, if it had not
held other banks’ funds, which totalled
£459 million, on its June balancing
date.
An effective remedy is to allow bank-
ing companies to hold*and invest in a
liquid manner the overseas funds they
acquire from exporters. The Reserve
Bank possesses total power to mobilise
them, if they are ever required for
national purposes, which is a power far
exceeding what the Royal Commission
in 1936 considered necessary and desir-
able.
The extraordinary expansion of the
Commonwealth group of banks until the
“separation” in 1959 was based on capi-
tal given them by the Central Bank from
profits derived largely from this and
similar diversions of revenue from the
banking companies. Fixed depositors of
the banks paid the piper by receiving
inadequate interest payments, as well as
bank shareholders.
Although the Treasury since 1959
has taken the bulk of Reserve Bank
profits, this has enabled it to grant im-
mense sums to the “Development Bank”
section of the Commonwealth Banking
Corporation, raising its capital to
£30,857,000, so that already it greatly
exceeds the capital of the Bank of New
South Wales.
finance has been the
“Wales’” long suit now for 147
years, but apparently this fades before
the importance of a new competitor
equipped with a superfluous hire-pur-
chase business and a high-sounding
name.
The table on page 63 will repay care-
ful study. New banks do not grow as the
Commonwealth’s institutions have done
in the post-war period, and more par-
ticularly since 1949 without causing
inflation, nor by competitive superiority
under equal conditions for all.
I should be loth to part with “Wales’ ”
shares even at present prices, hoping that
somehow the directors’ efforts to find
new sources of revenue for shareholders
even though in less essential fields than
overdraft-financing would not lead to
further official restrictions.
However, in the light of the facts I
have mentioned it is very difficult to see
a prosperous expanding future for the
“Wales”, or any other banking company,
unless and until they are freed by new
legislation from the cumulative oppres-
sion of existing banking arrangements.


SECURITY ANALYSIS
A Cash Issue or Bonus?
Raynors' future financing plans
Tudging by the trend in per share earn-
ings over the last three years, Ray-
nors Holdings Limited certainly bene-
fited from the automotive boom.
A 50 p.c. increase was recorded in two
years, but the share prices, at least over
1963, do not seem to have taken this
into account. In fact, judging by dividend
yields, there is every possibility that in-
vestors have come to regard the shares
as an income stock—in other words they
are not anticipating much more than
normal growth in dividend income.
Raynors was listed in 1957, when the
shares were placed at ss. 9d. cum a 9d.
dividend. Six months later a full year’s
dividend of 6d. per share was received,
so the initial public shareholder did very
well during this early stage.
Nevertheless, the shares did not sell
above 6s. 3d. during 1957, and if they
had been purchased at this price the
holder would today see a 200 p.c.
capital appreciation. But most of this
growth took place from 1957 to 1959
in which year the company made its one
and only cash issue to shareholders on
a one-for-one basis at par.
Clearly the possibility of a further in-
crease in the share price would seem to
depend on the possibility of another cash
issue or a bonus issue, and it will be as
well to examine the prospects for such
issues.
Taking the bonus issue prospects first,
there does seem to be some scope for it.
Last year’s dividend was covered nearly
twice by earnings, so there is room to
move so far as earnings are concerned.
In fact, a one-for-four issue maintaining
the 10 p.c. rate would increase the
dividend payout to £46,000 approxi-
mately, and would involve an increase
of £92,000 in paid capital.
"CVxisting capital reserves total nearly
£56,000 and these will grow at the
rate of £2500 per annum as the redeem-
able preference shares issued in 1961 are
being repaid at this rate.
Presumably, the original land and
buildings, which appear to have been
valued at about £147,000 in 1957,
would be capable of being revalued by
25 p.c. to produce the balance of
£36,000 needed to raise “bonus issue’’
reserves to the required amount.
The prospects of another cash issue
are difficult to assess, because it seems
apparent that the company has received
considerable assistance in the past from
the AMP Society, which appears to have
lent up to £lOO,OOO on mortgage and
who also took up the whole of the re-
deemable preferences issue of £50,000
in 1961.
The company’s banker, the Bank of
New South Wales, also seems to have
supported Raynors quite strongly. The
extent of the overdraft arrangements are
unknown but at June 30, 1962, the
balance sheet figure was £115,153. This
item has been reduced to just over
£71,000 at June 30, 1963, but despite
this net working capital had dropped
also.
This could suggest that some liquidity
strain could be developing, particularly
as business seems to be increasing. The
£61,000 (net) spent on plant, fittings
and vehicles during 1962-63 was not
quite covered by retained profits and
depreciation, and if further capital ex-
penditure is to take place during
1963-64, then it is more than likely that
further funds will need to be introduced
into the business.
Tt cannot be assumed that the company
A will necessarily raise these funds by
the issue of further equity capital. Prior
charges such as interest and redeemable
preference dividends seem to have been
covered nearly nine times by the 1962-63
profit and five times by the 1960-61
profit (the worst year).
One would have thought that the com-
pany could easily raise another £lOO,OOO
on a fixed interest basis for, even after
such an issue, secured borrowings in-
cluding bank overdraft would only re-
present about 50 p.c. of fixed assets and
total liabilities just over 70 p.c. of
tangible assets at book values. No doubt
the board and its consultant, Mr Trevor
Daniel, a well-known Sydney accountant,
will have considered all the aspects of
additional finance.
It seems that the company will need
further funds for expansion, for a
number of manufacturers of durable
consumer goods have plans to increase
production over the next few years to
cope with increased demand arising from
the current upsurge in home building and
the anticipated increase in family forma-
tion.
Raynors, as the leading company pro-
ducing various items of trim for refrige-
rators, stoves, radios, television, etc., can
be expected to participate in the durable
consumer products boom as it has already
done in the automotive boom.
In the next few weeks the company
will produce its interim report for
1963-64 early May seems to be the
likely time, since in 1962 and 1963 this
report was published on May 3.
At this stage, investors will be able to
judge whether the current year is likely
to show a further increase in earnings.
Maybe they will also be given some in-
dication of the prospects of further
equity issues, and whether or not they
can anticipate some improvement in
dividend income in the not too far
distant future.
Unless some such indication is forth-
coming, they may feel that the shares
are fully priced at around 12s. 6d. to
show an immediate dividend yield of
4 p.c. and a price/earnings ratio of just
over 12.5.
Tt is worth mentioning that if there is a
A further increase in earnings this year
at the average rate of the last two years,
so that per share earnings return to the
1959-60 level, then the price/earnings
ratio will fall to about 10.
This would be a very low ratio for
any company and particularly low for a
well-managed company such as Raynors.
But such an increase may be over-
optimistic even though the new equip-
ment purchased during 1962-63 was not
to come into full production until the
beginning of the current financial year.
The value of the shares is then very
dependent on future financing plans and
future dividend policy, since although
the company has done well and will
certainly continue to do well, share-
holders have not received a great deal
during the last seven years.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 263 364 273 412 419
Current liabilities 244 298 173 303 337
Net working
capital 19 66 100 109 82
Fixed assets 295 446 520 522 576
Intangibles 78 79 117 117 117
Total capital 392 591 737 748 775
Represented by:
Loan capital 107 104 111 108 103
Redeemable
pref. capital 50 47 45
Ordinary capital 165 330 368 - 368 368
Reserves 120 157 208 225 259
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES (£'000)
Interest on
fixed loans 7.4(a) 6.9(a) 7.2 6.6 7.9
Depreciation 11.2 12.0 17.0 18.5 19.7
Tax provided 34.0 41.0 26.6 33.8 42.2
Preference div. 3.8 3.8
Earnings 51.9 61.4 45:3 52.9 72.9
Ord. dividend 16.5 24.7 36.5 36.8 36.8
Surplus 35.4 36.7 8.8 16.1 36.1
(a) Estimate.
Earnings per share
shillings (b) 1.04 1.24 0.62 0.72 0.99
Dividend per share
shillings (b) 0.33 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.50
Earnings yield
p.c. (c) 6.3 7.6 7.2 6.0 7.6
Dividend yield
p.c. (c) 4.0 4.5 5.9 4.2 3.8
(b) Adjusted for cash issue.
(c) Based on last sale in. month accounts presented.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Duncans’ Picture Brighter
Early return to dividend forecast
A favorable upswing in trading can
be expected from Duncans Hold-
ings Ltd, sawmiller and timber merchant,
in the year ending next June 30.
Already the company has reported a
pre-tax quarterly profit of £30,000 plus,
and an early return to the dividend list
is the official forecast.
Since the credit squeeze, times have
not been propitious for the timber trade,
and Duncans has had two sick trading
years.
In the year to June 30, 1962, the
company recorded a profit drop from
£74,344 to £22,447, and in 1962-63
the trend continued into a deficit of
£30,770. The dividend, which had been
6 p.c. for three years, was omitted
altogether in 1962-63.
Apart from hesitancy in home-build-
ing because of finance, exceptional wet
weather conditions in NSW from
January to June, 1963, compounded
Duncans’ problems.
Demand for timber in that period
showed a substantial decline, and the
company’s sawmills at Eden, Wingham,
Wauchope, Dorrigo, Grafton, Mallan-
ganee, Kyogle and Goondiwindi were
affected by the flood conditions.
Nonetheless production of the ten
sawmilling subsidiaries increased 5 p.c.
to over 16 million super feet, due to
plant modernisation. (This is approxi-
mately 1.2 p.c. of Australian sawn
native timber production.)
To maintain production at this level,
Crown log quotas from the various
State Forestry Commissions have been
supplemented by the purchase of timber
from private property.
Past policy was for the sawmills’
forest operations to be performed by
employees using company plant and
equipment. Now these will be done by
contractors using their own equipment,
much of which was purchased from the
company.
The net capital expenditure in 1962-63
was only £17,315 although sale of
some surplus logging equipment was
responsible for part of the reduction
from the usual annual expenditure of
about £lOO,OOO.
Two non-recurring factors contribut-
ing to difficulties in the year under
review were the loss suffered by the
Brisbane floorlaying and structural sub-
sidiary, which then ceased to operate,
and the incidence of bad debts in the
industry. The sum written off as bad
debts was £42,058.
Parquetry flooring has proved a profit-
able adjunct to normal sawmilling
operations at Wingham.
Durisng 1962-63 the parent obtained
a half interest in R. Alan Barber Pty
Ltd which holds the Australian agency
for new laminated timber veneer, known
as “Prewood”.
Directors have previously told share-
holders that there is a tremendous
potential market for Australian timber
in Japan for wood pulp and piling etc,
but in the latest report they said only
limited export opportunities were avail-
able at present.
A large Japanese engineering firm had
contracted with Duncans to buy sleepers
for the railway system to be constructed
in Saudi Arabia. Owing to “political
and other instability” the contract was
terminated, and Duncans made no ship-
ments. Possibly an English company will
undertake the construction and Duncans
could still supply the timber.
The working capital position was
virtually unchanged during the year,
although the bank overdraft was extended
from <£161,155 to £226,718.
Duncans borrowed $660,000
(£293,126) from the International
Finance Corporation of Washington in
1956-57 in the form of unsecured notes.
These bore interest at the rate of 7 p.c.
fixed and participating to 12 p.c. depen-
ding on profits. They are now being re-
paid over a 10-year period from Decem-
ber 1, 1961.
The Corporation holds options over
600,000 10s. stock units exercisable at
par during the period of the loan. (Dun-
cans’ present capital is £641,567.)
The higher rate of Australian pro-
duction month by month in the first
half of the current financial year is a
guide to the greater activity which
should have been enjoyed by Duncans.
If further positive steps can be taken
to cut expenses—such as the change
of policy with contractors using their
own equipment the future looks
brighter.
The adversities of the last recession
period produced a degree of unity
amongst those associated with the
timber industry, which probably facili-
tated presentation of claims for increased
protection, granted in January 1964.
Whether this protection will be to the
long-term advantage of local producers
is hard to say. Protests have been made
that protection has been granted to an
industry which cannot supply the
materials (specifically soft timbers for
joinery, fixing and furniture use), and
that the net result is purely an increase
in cost to the home-builder, and only
promoting the use of substitute materials
like aluminium, fibro and plastics.
In an industry in which transport costs
rank so high, production costs are
difficult to control. Rationalisation has
been preached to the industry for a long
time, but progress is slow.
Investment in any timber company
should be approached with a great deal
of caution, so any timber stock should
be reviewed frequently.
But the promise of an early dividend
should put a couple of shillings capital
appreciation within the reach of a buyer
at a price of around 7s. 3d. for the 10s.
shares.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 1395 1328 1191 1132 1078
Less current
liabilities 811 677 590 606 570
Working capital 584 651 601 526 508
Investments 98 53 55 48 50
Fixed assets 400 412 456 482 450
Intangibles 61 61 60 70 70
1143 1177 1172 1126 1078
Deferred liabilities 302 293 248 243 227
Ordinary capital 641 641 641 641 641
Reserves 200 243 283 237 210
1143 1177 1172 1126 1078
Depreciation 46 53 58 63 62
Taxation 19 25 45 10 2
Net profit 46 80 74 22 —3l
Ordinary dividend 13 38 38 38
Surplus 33 42 36 —l6 —3l
Earning rate 7.2 12.5 11.6 3.5
Dividend rate 2 6 6 6
Dividend-yield (a) 3.5 8.6 10.2 8.9
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 7.8 5.6 5.1 19.2
High price (b) 6/4 11/10 7/10 8/3 6/3
Low price (b) 4/- 5/9 5/- 5/9 3/10
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.


HERBERT YATES H’GS LTD
Distinctly Speculative
TTerbert Yates Holdings Ltd is an-
other of the late 1960 and early
1961 floats which has been unable to
achieve prospectus forecasts. And on the
current trend of figures, it could be some
time before it returns to pre-flotation
profit levels.
The company began operations in 1936
making fashion kid leather for the shoe
trade and in 1953 began the manufacture
of calf leather.
A new tannery was built at Botany in
1961, financed by a public issue of
800,000 ss. shares at par, providing a
wide enough spread for Stock Exchange
listing. Paid up capital on listing was
£401,001.
Prospectus indicated that the profit
rate for 1960-61 was about 20 p.c., but
because the credit squeeze caused a set-
back in the second half of the year, actual
profit of £71,716 was only 17.9 p.c. on
capital.
In the following year the setback was
even more severe and earnings totalled
only £39,923, equal to 10 p.c. on capital.
Nevertheless, the 8 p.c. dividend pay-
ment was held.
In 1962-63, despite a hopeful start to
the year, trade deteriorated in the second
six months, while, following a slump in
raw hide prices, stock was written down
by £48,000.
An interim 4 p.c. was paid, but when
the result for the year showed that profit
was only £9924 (2.5 p.c. on capital) the
final dividend was dropped.
Accounts for the year which closed
on June 30 reflected the tightness of
liquidity. A cash surplus of £74,148 at
June 30 1962 was converted into an
overdraft of £169,562. Debtors fell from
£202,036 to £lB3, 111, while stocks, even
after the writedown, were up from
£328,640 to £431,162.
Following the construction of the new
factory at Botany, fixed assets are up,
freehold from £78,291 to £146,779 and
plant from £50,541 to £101,130.
The company has adopted the policy
of lumping all its reserves into one
amount, which, with intangibles in the
books at £173,494, give a net assets
backing for each ss. share of 6s. 3d.
The current year has not started well
with a loss of about £17,000, including
another writedown of stocks of about
£25,000, and the interim dividend was
passed.
Sales are 20 p.c. lower than in the
previous corresponding period and the
move to the new factory has not pro-
ceeded as smoothly as expected.
Results for the remainder of the year
are dependent on the two rather large
“ifs” continuation of the improvement
in trading and maintenance of stability
in the raw hide market.
The market is currently pricing the
shares at 3s. 3d., at which level they are
distinctly speculative.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 654 611 617
Less current liabilities 147 113 279
Working capital 507 498 338
Fixed assets 127 129 248
Goodwill 173 173 173
807 800 759
Represented by:
Capital 401 401 401
Reserves 271 279 273
Mortgage 72 57 45
Loan 63 63 40
807 800 759
Depreciation 4 4 4
Taxation 48 25 —-
Net profit 72 40 10
Dividend 16 32 16
Surplus 56 8
Dividend p.c. 8(a) 8 4
Earnings p.c. 17.9 10.0 2.5
Dividend yield (b) 7.6 8.7 —•
High price (c) 6/3 6/6 5/1
Low price (c) 5/12 4/- 3/3
(a) Paid for half year.
(b) End of November, month accounts presented.
(c) Calendar year.
DON INDUSTRIES LTD
Furniture Maker’s Troubles
A lthough Don Industries Ltd was un-
fortunate in the timing of its place-
ment to the public in November, 1962,
in order to achieve listing, in retrospect
the placement price of 12s. 6d. was un-
duly optimistic.
The ss. shares then had an asset back-
ing of only ss. lOd. Average earnings
adjusted for public company tax rates
were 20.9 p.c. for the three years to
June 30, 1960, while the earning rate
of 27.6 p.c. on capital for 1959-60 -led
the management to believe that the com-
pany could pay annual dividends of
15 p.c.
In fact, the 1960-61 earning rate was
15.0 p.c., and the maiden dividend was
10 p.c. No dividends have been paid
since then, and 1961-62 proved a very
difficult year.
There has been some recovery in trade
in 1962-63 the profit clambered back
from £6932 to £20,918, after tax of
£10,837 and depreciation of £14,045,
but the shares have never held their place-
ment price, and are currently valued
around 4s. 3d.
Furniture manufacture is always con-
sidered variable according to the swings
of the economic cycle, and official statis-
tics for retail sales of furniture and floor
coverings support the contention that the
trade was dull over the recession period
after November, 1960.
Australian sales of furniture and floor
coverings were £97.8 million in 1958-
59, then £ 114.4 m., £ 116.8 m.,
£ 114.8 m. and in 1962-63 £ 116.5 m.
Food and groceries, beer, wine and
spirits, chemists’ goods, newspapers,
books and stationery, all sold progres-
sively higher each year, recession or no
recession.
The business, established by Mr Hyman
Don in 1927, specialised originally in


living-room furniture. The year 1961-
62 convinced management that an ex-
tended range was desirable.
The company prides itself on its
manufacturing plants being the largest
and best-equipped in the respective States.
The premises at Silverwater (NSW) cover
40,000 square feet, and at Cheltenham
(Vic), 30,000 square feet.
Don furniture is made under licence
by others in Queensland, South Australia,
Western Australia and Tasmania, and
including this business, sales exceeded
£1.5 million in the 1962-63 period.
The 50 p.c. interest in Craftex Ltd
(NZ) was recently sold to Felt and Tex-
tiles of New Zealand Ltd, for an attrac-
tive cash price. Don will retain its asso-
ciation with the NZ company by way of
a service agreement at an annual fee.
In order to diversify, Don contracted
to lease a cabinet factory and plant at
Liverpool (NSW) from Standard Tele-
phones and Cables Pty Ltd as from
September 1, 1963. This plant is capable
of producing high-quality cabinets.
Capital of £225,000 may be increased
by £50,000 in 1964-5 if holders of the
7 p.c. unsecured notes exercise their
option to convert to ordinary shares be-
tween July 1 and August 31, 1964.
No firm advance on 4s. 3d. for the
shares is justified until the interim report
this month confirms hopes that the
company’s profits for 1963-64 can sup-
port a good dividend.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 368 309 256
Less current liabilities 256 213 140
Working capital 112 96 116
Investments 19 19 19
Fixed assets 288 314 308
Intangibles 175 ■ 175 173
594 604 616
Loan capital 148 152 150
Ordinary capital 225 225 225
Reserves 221 227 241
594 604 616
Depreciation ' 13 15 14
Taxation 22 4 11
Net profit 34 7 21
Dividend 23
Surplus 11 7 21
Earning rate 15.0 3.0 9.3
Dividend rate 10
Dividend yield (a) 7.7
Price/earnings ratio (a) 8.7 21.7 8.1
High price v b) 10/6 7/8 4/-
Low price . (b) 5/6 3/- 2/9
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year; 1963 year to November 30.
GEORGE HUDSON (HOLDINGS) LTD
The Trials of Geo. Hudson Ltd
Internal strife, trade hardships , bad weather
A struggle for control between two
opposing groups of shareholders
came close to destroying George Hudson
Holdings Ltd, Sydney based timber mer-
chant. That and the hardships experienc-
ed by the timber and building industry
generally since the credit squeeze are
still causing the company difficulty in
keeping its head above water.
The company joined the Stock Ex-
change list in 1955, although its history
goes back nearly 95 years. Paid up
capital on listing was £1,300,000 in 20s.
shares following an issue to the public
of 234,250 shares at par. The shares were
split into ss. units in 1959 and a small
placement made in connection with a
takeover lifted paid capital to the present
£1,312,588.
George Hudson’s reputation has been
built up as a softwoods specialist, al-
though the company also has an extensive
business in hardwoods and building tim-
bers generally.
In 1960 it joined with Producers’ and
Citizens’ Co-operative Assurance to en-
gage in the building of homes on land
acquired from time to time. Many of
these houses are prefabricated in the
Hudson ready-cut homes section.
Since listing, profit history has been
far from spectacular. Earnings between
1956 and 1960 fluctuated between
£125,653 and £136,812, giving only a
small cover to the dividend distribution
8 p.c. in the three years after listing
and then 7 p.c. in 1959 and 1960.
In 1960-61, the year of the credit
squeeze, the company incurred a thump-
ing loss of £173,646 and did not pay a
dividend.
Principal cause of the setback was the
almost total cessation of building activity
following the credit squeeze, allied with
the fierce price-cutting for any available
business. The lifting of import restrictions
also resulted in a substantial amount of
timber being held by the trade and as a
result directors wrote down stocks heavily
from cost to current replacement value.
This turn around in fortunes prompted
a group of shareholders to attempt to
replace the board and the opposition
crystallised around Dr George Hudson,
a cousin of three members of the board.
Following a lengthy exchange of cir-
culars and an annual meeting at which
shareholders rejected the directors’ an-
nual report and balance sheet, the dispute
was finally settled when Dr Hudson and
one of his supporters were elected to the
seven-man board.
The 1961-62 year saw a return to
profitability with earnings of £71,162,
equal to 5.4 p.c. on capital, enabling the
payment of a 3 p.c. final dividend.
The 1962-63 year also started well with
profitable trading and the forecast of
another final dividend, but the extra-
ordinary wet weather in the first three
months of 1963 caused substantial losses
resulting in a deficit of £29,701 for the
12 months and again no dividend pay-
ment.
The books at balance date of June 30
last reflected the slowness of business
resulting in some liquidity problems.
Overdraft was up from £1,050,082 to
£1,247,232 although still below the 1961
figure of £1,721,551. Creditors were
down from £641,562 to £562,555.
Stock was down slightly from
£1,100,147 to £1,059,139—ab0ut two-
thirds of the 1960 figure of £1,649,966.
Debtors were up from £986,981 to
£1,050,615.
The reserves position is good with
capital reserves sufficient for a one-for-
three bonus should earnings allow. With
intangibles in the books at £729,797,
net assets backing of each ss. share is
ss. lOd.
The shares could well be bought at
the current level of 3s. with the pros-
pect of some long-term capital apprecia-
tion although the short-term picture is
not so good.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 1702 2571 2389 2195 2221
Less current
liabilities 1146 1845 2123 1790 1834
Working capital 556 726 266 405 337
Fixegl assets 1077 1184 1216 1152 1147
Intangibles 716 732 729 729 730
2349 2642 2211 2286 2264
Represented by:
Capital 1300 1300 1313 1313 1313
Capital reserves 408 411 415 456 460
Other reserves 606 649 481 515 490
Mortgage 252 1
Outside
shareholders 35 30 2 2
2349 2642 2211 2286 2264
Depreciation 29 40 49 46 44
Taxation 79 94 7 6 2
Net profit 127 131 —174 71 -30
Dividend 91 91 39
Surplus 36 40 34
Dividend p.c. 7 7 3
Earnings p.c. 9.7 10.1 5.4
Dividend yield (a) 7.3 8.2 4.7
High price (b) 5/1 6/4 4/8 4/- 3/10
Low price (b) 3/9 4/- 2/9 2/11 2/1
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.


CAVENDISH
TOBACCO
LUXURY BLEND
PIPE OR
CIGARETTE
IN 3 BLENDS- f'J?
MILD * NUT SWEET * RUM
These distinguished, much sought
after blends are now sold by tobac-
conists. If not available write to
the blenders:
THE TABAK COMPANY
50 Miller St., Nth. Sydney. 92 8489
M 3
c
FOR ALL FINANCE
A k
ALSO
FACTORING-LEASING
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Playing Cassius with Shares
Dethroned by the interim reports
Over the last few months I’ve been
shouting “I'm the greatest”, and sud-
denly I’m dethroned.
First of all, International Footwear
published its interim report. Although
profits for the first half are about in line
with the previous year, current earning
rate must be steeply down following the
l-for-2 issue last year. By selling the
shares at 10s. 6d., this investment in the
footwear industry cost me £26.
Next was the Aeron report. Trading
for the first half was profitable, but
directors have decided not to pay an
interim dividend. This report follows up
last year’s result, when profits fell heavily
and only just covered the 10 p.c. div-
idend. Despite directors’ expectation of
paying a final dividend, the market status
of the share and subsequently its price
must fall before it rises.
All this probably sounds as if I’ve
given the stock up for good. This is not
quite true. I think the company poten-
tially is a good investment, but not at
this stage
Then came Stocks and Holdings,
whose interim report told us of record
profits (equal to an annual earning rate
of 30 p.c.) and a reduction in the interim
dividend from 10 p.c. to 1\ p.c. One
only has to take A. G. Healing as an
example of this situation to make a sell-
ing decision. The sale of 400 shares at
16s. resulted in a loss of £9.
Last on the list of disappointments
was Waugh and Josephson. A substan-
tial profit for the first half of the year
was announced. Yet directors consider
it prudent not to pay an interim divi-
dend. The shares have now fallen be-
low par again. Perhaps it’s being fool-
hardy—l decided to double the holding.
The average price for the 400 shares in
the portfolio is 205* 3d.
Fortunately the price rises in Hanimex
and Malleys just about cancel out the
falls in the portfolio. Although this has
been a poor week, the appreciation in
the portfolio is still running at about
50 p.c. per annum on the year’s open-
ing value.
It is, therefore, not with so much
shame that I look at Reinvestment (Aus-
tralia) Ltd. This listed “closed end” trust
was formed in 1959. The idea was to
invest the ordinary capital of £570,000
into ordinary shares. In the next 15
years dividends received from invest-
ments were to be used for further invest-
ment.
It took the company just four years
to get to the stage where the asset back-
ing based on market value of investments
first exceeded the par value of the shares.
This was only made possible by the divi-
dends received in the four years, since
the current value of investments was still
below cost.
While directors probably felt very
pleased about this improvement, Rein-
vestment 20s. shares continued to drift
around 17s. Then on to the scene came
Mr Cowan, who is best known as the
joint editor of Factograph (I had a differ-
ence of opinion with them on LNC last
year). The share offer that his mutual
fund is making would allow the share-
holder in Reinvestment to get out with
a profit of sd. per share after five patient
years.
If this same shareholder then invested
in Kelvinator shares, I feel confident that
his rate of capital appreciation would
improve. This very successful appliance
manufacturer recently announced a
l-for-4 bonus issue, a fair indication of
a record profit for the year to March 31
The price reaction from 30s. to about
28s. seemed a good buying opportunity.
While the others are making up their
minds, I bought 400.
Transactions for this week were:
SOLD
400 Stocks & Holdings ... 16/- £313
500 International
Footwear, new .... 10/6 £256
BOUGHT
200 Waugh & Josephson 19/6 £199
400 Kelvinator 28/3 £575
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
2000 Hanimex 23/5/62 9/6 15/6
1000 Aeron 14/8/63 7/9 6/6
1000 ODE 29/10/63 5/6 6/6
1000 Mobile Equip. 30/10/63 8/4 9/
400 Mai leys 12/11/63 27/3 33/6
200 Tutt Bryant £1
notes 22/11/63 29/3 35/-
1000 Ansett 2/12/63 7/7 9/3
500 Country Television 3/12/63 12/- 13/6
200 AWA 20/12/63 26/3 28/-
500 O'Donnell Griffin 23/12/63 19/6 22/-
400 Pioneer Concrete 9/1/64 17/6 17/6
1000 Palgrave 16/1/64 2/6 2/6
500 Auto & Gen. Fin.,
notes 21/1/64 26/- 27/-
1000 Eric White 29/1/64 15/6 17/-
200 Philip Morris 29/1/64 38/- 39/6
400 Waugh & Josephson 12/2/64 20/3 19/6
2000 Mid Eastern 12/2/64 1/7 1/7
800 Conkeys 13/2/64 15/3 18/
1500 Prasby 18/2/64 2/7 3/2
400 Mt. Isa 26/2/64 43/- 42/6
400 Renison 27/2/64 37/ 37/
400 Kelvinator 5/3/64 28/3 28/3


THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING
COMPANY LTD.
Significant and responsible work for a man of
broad outlook who is also capable of sustained
hard work.
The C.S.R. Company is seeking a man for work which
will be varied, and will be concerned mostly with
economic and social problems and matters related to
internal and international trade in Australia, New Zea-
land and Fiji.
The kind of man being sought is one who is capable
of seeing a specific problem in a broad context, cap-
able of tackling that problem within a certain con-
ceptual framework, and capable also of making evalu-
ations and posing practical solutions.
It will be necessary, of course, that such a man
should have a good general education (preferably to
university degree level) and be competent in some
specific discipline.
The work will demand ability to sustain attention
and thought on a project, possibly over a period of
months, until it has been completed. Qualities of
imagination, initiative and enthusiasm are desired, but
also sound character, the ability' to work with other
people, and to communicate verbally and in writing.
We seek" a man around 30 years of age, but with some
maturity, who can adapt himself to new situations,
have • confidence in himself, can cope with practical
tasks, and win respect and co-operation from others.
His work will require objectivity in outlook and care
and accuracy in establishing facts and premises. We
seek a man who is capable of abstract thought and
enjoys it, but who nevertheless possesses commonsense
and can appreciate commercial considerations. One who
proves himself successful in this field is assured, in
due course, of opportunities for advancement to a posi-
tion of responsibility and leadership.
We offer, for men who have gained some experience
and the confidence of management, difficult and some-
times exacting work, but work which is responsible and
socially significant. It will provide, for men with suit-
able temperament and abilities, satisfaction and op-
portunity.
The position will be on the permanent staff and will
carry a salary sufficient to attract the type of man
being sought. The successful applicant will be eligible
for membership of the Company’s superannuation
scheme and will be entitled to participate in the Com-
pany’s plan for assistance in home ownership.
Men. at present in congenial and satisfactory employ-
ment and who would not wish to leave it at short
notice, should apply now indicating a suitable com-
mencing date.
Applications will, of course, be treated in strict con-
fidence.
Men who consider they are suited to this work are
invited to apply in writing, by the end of March, 1964,
setting out their qualifications, to:
The Chief Staff Officer,
The Colonial Sugar Refining Company Ltd.,
G.P.O. Box 483,
SYDNEY.
A TOP LEVEL CONTACT AND PUBLIC
RELATIONS OFFICER
required by
LEADING INTERNATIONAL ORGANISATION
SALARY: Up to £5,000 p.a. Location—Sydney.
DUTIES: To assume responsibility for contact at Governmental
and Public Service Department level for client liaison work,
and creative writing in connection with special projects.
QUALIFICATIONS: He will need to know and understand the
communications business. He should be familiar with Gov-
ernmental machinery and be interested in, or have had
experience in political activity of some sort.
It is quite probable that some part of the necessary experi-
ences will have been gained in the field of journalism. The
truly essential qualifications, however, are that he be per-
ceptive, articulate, creative, possessed of personal stature
and sensitive to atmosphere and situations affecting public
relations and publicity.
APPLICATIONS: Confidential. Please detail qualifications, ex-
perience, age, training, 'phone numbers and other relevant
information. Apply in writing to:
"PUBLIC RELATIONS OFFICER"
Executive Selection Division
JOHN P. YOUNG & ASSOCIATES (N.S.W.)
PTY. LTD.
Management Consultants
Caltex House, 167 Kent Street, Sydney
or to our offices in Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
ENGINEERING
COMPANY
SECRETARY
AND
CHIEF ACCOUNTANT
£2500
A major Australian Company,
well-diversified, wishes to appoint
a Chief Accountant and Secre-
tary to one of its subsidiary com-
panies, engaged in Marine and
General Engineering in New
South Wales and Queensland.
Applicants must be qualified
accountants with costing experi-
ence in an engineering company,
between 28 and 35, ambitious,
profit - conscious and possess
sound commercial judgment.
The man appointed will be re-
sponsible to the New South
Wales Manager for all New South
Wales accounting functions,
and to the Board of Directors
for the accounts of the Com-
pany in both States. He will
attend Board meetings, and will
be expected to maintain close
liaison with the accounting de-
partment of the parent company
In the first instance he will
be resoonsible for designing and
installing new accounting sys-
tems in the company.
Location is Sydney but some
travel to Brisbane will be in-
volved.
The position is one of unusual
importance and opportunity and
a starting salary of up to £2,503
a year will be paid. Regular
reviews of salary will be made,
and superannuation will be
available after a qualifying
period
Applications stating age, quali-
fications, experience and ap-
pointments held, and quoting
reference number A/206. should
be addressed to:
APPOINTMENTS
DIVISION
P.E. MANAGEMENT GROUP
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
182 BLUES POINT ROAD
NORTH SYDNEY
A candidate’s name will not
be passed to our client, nor will
any enquiries be made, without
the candidate’s permission.


TEH MAN
ON THE LAND
“The Show” and its Critics
Are agricultural awards meaningless and dangerous?
Sydney's Royal Easter Show is on
again at the end of this month and
all things considered it is entitled to be
called the greatest show on earth.
There may be bigger individual live-
stock shows, trade fairs and funfairs in
other parts of the world, but nowhere
else do you get all these things in the
one place.
Inevitably there are criticisms. Nearly
always they are minor ones concerned
with such things as the wisdom of selling
“fairy floss” to cavity-prone Australian
children. But in the last few years there
has been a criticism of a different sort
levelled at Royal Sydney and, in fact,
all agricultural shows.
The criticism is that agricultural show
awards are meaningless, dangerous and
out-dated as an indication of the merit
or otherwise of a particular animal.
As it is, the top show winners become
the fashionable sires. And it is said that
continuation of show awards puts our
livestock industries in jeopardy. “We are
breeding from the wrong animals and for
the wrong reasons”.
Nearly always the people who utter
these criticisms are found to be qualified.
That is, they hold degrees of one kind or
another, and nearly always they are en-
gaged in work other than breeding
cattle, sheep, pigs and poultry for com-
mercial ends.
Indeed, the pattern is such that it
appears that to be “anti-shows” is as
much the badge of the Ag. Science type
as to be “slightly Left” is the mark of
certain other university people.
Their criticism can be answered very
simply, but not entirely adequately, on
the basis of costs.
T ike the Olympic Games the major
agricultural shows could not be run
economically were it not for the consi-
derable army of judges and their assis-
tants, ring masters, stewards, organisers
and so on who give their time gratuitous-
ly or for mere token expenses.
The alternative suggested by the “egg-
heads”—large-scale statistical measuring
and evaluating of animals would be,
by comparison, enormously expensive.
Moreover, it has been tried for nearly
40 years now in two completely dis-
similar countries, the United States and
Soviet Russia, and the results have been
anything but impressive in the case of
sheep and cattle. With pigs and poultry
the results have been remarkably success-
ful.
Despite all their efforts both the US
and Russia continue to buy stud cattle
and sheep from Britain and would buy
our Merinos if we lifted the embargo.
distinction must be made between
A cattle and sheep on the one hand,
and pigs and poultry on the other, be-
cause there is an obvious, but often over-
looked, difference of habitat.
Sheep and cattle must to a large extent
continue to fend for themselves as
grazing animals, and this still applies
despite the increase of feed-lots in the
United States. The best feed-lot animal
is not a calf reared in a “calf-lot” but
one from a mother grazed in the normal
way.
But pigs and poultry are largely con-
fined and artificially reared from birth.
Their lives, too, are shorter. All that mat-
ters is the end result how much meat
they have on their bones.
But sheep and cattle, while the end
result is the same (wool can be included
here), still need feet to walk on, eyes to
seek out fodder, noses to smell it, and
constitutions to cope with the rigors of
heat or cold.
Breeding by statistics alone fails to
take many of these things into account.
It also fails to take into account the
ways of nature. The most unprepossess-
ing cow may produce a magnificent calf.
The most beautifully matched parents —■
on paper may produce failures
amongst their offspring, and this does
not apply only to animals, of course.
That does not mean that the criticism
levelled at shows is without foundation.
Many of the points made are certainly
worthy of consideration.
In the case of stud beef cattle exhibits,
it is well known that the majority of the
magnificent specimens parading in the
show ring have been reared on foster-
mothers. The practice has become wide-
spread and few breeders these days can
afford not to be in the swim.
The calves are taken from their
natural mothers soon after birth and put
on to Jersey or Guernsey milkers whose
richer milk forces growth.
This has been a subject to avoid for a
long time, but now a prominent Victorian
Hereford breeder, Mr Ken Palmer, has
had the courage to explain, if not entirely
justify, it.
He says: “While shows remain, the
cattle with the strongest constitutions will
always come to the top, thus ensuring
their blood lines are perpetuated through
the best studs in the country. These top
animals are usually sold to other studs”.
According to Mr Palmer the prepara-
tion which calves get prior to showing is
so tough that only those with the best
constitutions emerge as show material.
A calf can only cope with a certain
amount of milk whether its mother is
its own or a foster-mother.
As the stud business is so competitive,
offering large rewards for those winning
major championships, breeders are forced
to do their utmost to grow calves to the
limit of their genetic ability.
The aim of the breeder, says Mr
Palmer, must be an animal carrying the
maximum amount of red meat of which
it is genetically capable.
Fat must be produced in proportion,
and some animals which appear to be
over-fat actually are deeply fleshed and
are carrying fat in the right proportion.
There must be some fat for the health
of the animal and the good eating quali-
ties of the carcass; and while lean meat
is popular, the production of lean meat
exclusively can be carried to absurd
extremes.
What the statistically minded critics
sometimes consider fads are not fads
at all. Shape and size of the horns give
a direct indication of the bone type and
development of the beast. There is a
direct relationship between the bone dia-
meter and the meat carried around the
bone.
While the butcher would like animals
to be all rump and T-bone steak, secon-
dary cuts of meat, like the second thigh,
are needed for the every-day business
of walking.
Obviously the practical breeder and the
scientist have a lot to offer each other
and many breeders are, in fact, using
scientific approaches these days.
An increasing number of breeders
have themselves completed courses of
study and, in addition, have the “eye
for a beast” which no amount of study
can give.
Probably the world’s most successful
breeder of stud cattle is an Englishman
with the un-English name of Richard
Saher de Quincey Quincey, whose


See the Rocketmen at...
THE ROYAL
EASTER SHOW
20th MARCH to
31st MARCH, 1964
10 DAYS & 8 NIGHTS
Two American self-propelled rocketmen
will appear at this year’s show. They will
wear Bell Rocket Belts, developed by Bell
Aerosystems Company, a Textron Com-
pany, and can fly more than 800 feet at a
speed of 60 miles an hour.
i
.
Don’t miss the greatest spectacle of the year! See our finest
stock on parade, cattle judging, woodchopping, primary and
secondary industry exhibits and the wealth of other events,
including comprehensive wool exhibition, army display and
fireworks, and for the first time the Australian shearing
championships will be held at this year’s show. These
combine to make the Royal Easter Show the greatest single
attraction in the Southern Hemisphere!
m
hi
iilllll
im
■■l
iiiiiiiiiiiiii
i
ON EXHIBITION IS THE “FARMSTEAD”—A HOME DESIGNED BY
A LEADING ARCHITECT ESPECIALLY FOR COUNTRY LIVING.
“Vern” Herefords are to be found now
in every beef-raising country.
He studied agriculture at Cambridge
and fortunately, being wealthy, went in
for the breeding not only of cattle but
also birds, orchids and horses. His aim
was not to make money, which he did in
a fantastic way, but to breed animals (and
orchids) which pleased him.
It was almost a case of “art for the sake
of art”. The money rolled in, but not
by design.
Another very important breeder in a
world sense is the Duke of Norfolk who,
as Australians well know, also enjoys
cricket and horse racing.
His Galloways a breed only repre-
sented in Australia by a handful of studs
due to the ban on imports are cur-
rently the big thing with American buy-
ers. Russia, too, is buying Galloways.
The Galloways are an interesting case.
For years they were in disfavor and it
was only “enthusiastic amateurs” like the
Duke of Norfolk who bothered to keep
them. Then a few years ago a London
chain of steak houses discovered that
the Galloways produced a “luxury” steak
which people would pay for willingly
and the boom was on.
If the statisticians alone had had a
hand in it there would not have been
any Galloways at all, probably,
T> everting to poultry, it would be inter-
-*-* esting, if unlikely, to see what would
happen if, for humanitarian reasons, the
caging of birds was forbidden by law.
Both the broiler and egg industries are
based on cages these days .no room
to walk ... no waste of feed. Would
the strains of poultry developed for
caged existence survive if forced to fend
for themselves in the open? Maybe,
Maybe not.
Perhaps some rare type of bird such
as the Langshan kept only now by
fanciers (the amateur enthusiasts)
would suddenly have a commercial value
again.
One cannot help feeling that the criti-
cism of shows by the intellectuals, as it
were, has a deeper significance. In at-
tacking what have become established
institutions in the Australian way of life
they are perhaps working off grievances
against the scheme of things in general.
It is unfortunately true that despite
all the speeches about the “need for
trained scientists” the graduate often finds
that the opportunities for advancement
and high salaries are non-existent in Aus-
tralia.
But that is another story.
For show awards to mean what they
should, obviously judges of a high stand-
ard are essential. It is hard to see how
any criticism can be justified in this
direction. Both Sydney and Melbourne
Royals regularly bring overseas judges
here and local judges are always experi-
enced in their fields.
If this lends itself to “cliqueness”, how
on earth can it be avoided? If you do
not get a cattle man to judge cattle, a
sheep man to judge sheep, who do you
get?
If there has been a falling-off in the
standards of Australian beef cattle in
recent years, the blame should not be
levelled at shows so much as our quaran-
tine restrictions which make the importa-
tion of stud animals extremely difficult.
And the people who support the
quarantine most strongly are strangely
the scientific types who criticise the
shows.
Some believe that the bogy of blue
tongue and so on will, sooner or later,
have to be lived with. The risk of in-
fection could be minimised by a more
active and widespread animal health
force.
Thus all parties might be served. The
breeders would get the bloodlines they
want and the graduates would get their
jobs.
Sheep Husbandry
School
p\)R some years now the sheep industry
in Victoria has benefited widely
from what have been called woolshed
schools, which, held in many districts,
have spread new ideas and better methods
of sheep husbandry.
Typical of these is the three-day sheep
husbandry school for farmers which,
jointly run by the Victorian Department
of Agriculture and the Rainbow Agricul-
tural and Pastoral Society, will open on
April 7 on a district property.
Officers of the department will give
talks and demonstrations on lamb rearing
and growth, sheep feeding, ram selection,
prevention and treatment of diseases, and
wool handling, together with such other
topics as district sheepmen may bring
forward.


has better balance
and flavour
than almost any whisky
you have tasted .
Try it!
More Aust. Wheat for India
Red carpet for Mr Moroney
From RONALD ANDERSON in New Delhi
"fl/Tra her burgeoning population of
** more than 440 million, India is
desperately short of grain.
Even with enormous shipments of
“gift” wheat from the United States she
is falling far short of adequately feeding
her people and yet she also faces the
hurdle of building up an urgently needed
“buffer stock” of five million tons to
guard against crop failures, droughts and
floods.
In the light of this shortage, a short-
age likely to increase steeply in the next
few years as the population explosion
continues, what is the significance of
this month’s sale of 171,000 tons of
Australian wheat to India?
In brief and in the short-term, the
answer must be not much except that
the price obtained by the Australian
Wheat Board negotiators is rumored to
have been highly satisfactory.
The sale has limited significance in
the short-term because, like many other
developing nations, India is drawing all
but a trickle of her wheat imports from
America’s surplus stocks under PL4BO.
Fortunately for Australia, the Ameri-
cans insist that any country wishing to
qualify for PL4BO wheat must purchase
a stated portion of its annual wheat re-
quirements on the world market at com-
mercial prices.
In India’s case this portion formerly
totalled 400,000 tons, but a couple of
years ago was reduced to 200,000 tons
a year. Virtually all of the 200,000
tons is now purchased from Australia.
This year, with countries clamoring
for Australian wheat and not enough
grain to meet all demands, the Austra-
lian Wheat Board wisely set aside suffi-
cient grain to meet India’s needs.
SPHERE are two obvious reasons why
Australia should foster the Indian
wheat trade, comparatively small though
it may be. One is the present rather pre-
carious dependence of the Australian
wheat industry on the mammoth annual
purchases made in recent years by In-
dia’s arch-enemy, Communist China.
It is plain that the Wheat Board cannot
afford to ignore any regular market for
Australian grain which would help to
offset this dependence.
Secondly, there is India’s geographi-
cal proximity to Australia and the tre-
mendous sales potential her enormous
population may represent in years to
come.
There is little or no prospect, how-
ever, of any substantial increase in our
wheat sales to India in the near future,
unless there is a change in the PL4BO
supplies or conditions. This is for the
simple reason that India cannot afford
the foreign exchange needed to buy
wheat from Australia.
Top Indian Ministry of Food and
Agriculture officials tell me frankly,
however, that they would much prefer
Australian to American wheat if they
could get it. They say Australia’s
soft wheat is much closer to Indian
wheat than the hard American grain
which, because of its red color and
different milling qualities, is distrusted
by conservative Indian villagers.
And there is no doubt about the high
reputation enjoyed in India as, in
fact, throughout most of Asia by the
Australian Wheat Board. The Board’s
chairman, Mr J. V. Moroney, former
secretary of the Commonwealth Depart-
ment of Primary Industry, was amazed
by the red carpet treatment he received
in India this month.
The treatment which the Indians, in-
cluding Cabinet Ministers, gave Mr Mo-
roney and his general manager, Mr Len
Dorman, left no doubt in the minds of
observers that India would welcome the
opportunity to become a major buyer
of Australian wheat.
There is little likelihood of this, un-
fortunately, until India succeeds in her
efforts to get her still-struggling economy
“off the ground”.
This may take some years yet if the
disappointing mid-term appraisal of her
current third Five-Year Plan is any cri-
terion and if she is forced to continue
her present crippling expenditure on
defence (£A793 million in 1963-64).
Meantime, India can be expected to
remain a reliable, if comparatively
minor, buyer of our wheat.
Famous Cow Retires
"Oileena Buttercup 9th, Queensland’s
senior dairy cow, has gone into
well-earned retirement at the age of 23
years and one month. She had been a
productive member of a jjerd for more
than 20 years, and was owned by Mr C.
K. Roche, of Faimoye AIS Stud, Upper
Freestone, near Warwick.
In her lifetime, she would have pro-
duced about 90 tons of milk containing
nearly 4 tons of butterfat
Buttercup was born on November 8,
1941, and had her last calf on November
14, 1959, at the age of 18 years. She did
not go in calf again, but continued to
milk until the end of December, 1963,
a period of more than four years. In
these 1470 days, she gave 32,420 lb of
milk containing 1267 lb of butterfat.


SYDNEY GRAMMAR SCHOOL
College Street
SYDNEY
Applications are invited for a post at Sydney Gram-
mar School for a Master interested in assisting with
Physical Education: he should also be able to under-
take some class-teaching in other subjects, preferably
Commerce. An interest in Physical Education is
important coupled with reasonable qualifications to
teach the lower part of the Secondary School.
Applications should be made in writing, giving the
fullest details and references.
Applications are invited for the post of Assistant
Art and/or Craft Master. Applications should be
made in writing to the Headmaster, giving fullest
details and references.
SYDNEY GRAMMAR SCHOOL
College Street
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Because of appointments overseas, there will
be two vacancies for Masters to teach English,
French, German and History; the first in
Term 11, 1964, to teach English, History and
French: the second in Term 111, 1964, for one
year only, to teach French and German.
Applications are invited from young men with
Degrees, or in the case of the second ap-
pointment, frojp retired schoolmasters. All
applications should be made in writing, giving
fullest details of career and qualifications and
references: also state extra curricular interests.
Entry on the salary scale depends on quali-
fications and experience; permanent members
of staff participate in the N.S.W. State Super-
annuation Scheme.
THE KING'S SCHOOL
MOSS VALE
MASTER required for 2nd & 3rd Terms of 1964 at
Tudor House, The King's School, Moss Vale. Gradu-
ate preferred. Ability to teach Latin and French
at Ist Year level and interest in extra-school activi-
ties. Apply in writing to the Headmaster.
UNITY LIFE ASSURANCE LIMITED
announce the intended appointments of
SALARIED LIFE INSPECTORS
in all States
DUTIES: The Life Inspectors will be responsible for training Inspectors
of our associated Fire and Accident offices, and writing life busi-
ness with their active co-operation.
ASSOCIATED OFFICES: The London Assurance Group.
Sun and Alliance Insurance Groups and their many subsidiaries.
TERMS: Salary, bonus, superannuation, Company car. This is an out-
standing opportunity for an experienced Life Assurance Representa-
tive.
ENQUIRIES. All States to:
General Manager,
32-34 Bridge Street,
Sydney. Phone 27-7731
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO: MYRA NEWTON, formerly of Gurr Street,
Prospect, Adelaide, South Australia. TAKE
NOTICE that NOEL JAMES NEWTON has
filed a petition for divorce No. 3402 of 1963
on the grounds of desertion and separation,
notwithstanding the facts and circumstances
set out in the discretion statement filed. If
YOU WISH to defend you may file an answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, oil or
before the 2nd day of April, 1964, and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from
Mr. A. G. Brindley, Solicitor, of 116 Liverpool
Street* Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: STANLY WORRELL HAYWOOD, late Of
Moore’s Lane, Waterloo, New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that FRANK WILLIAM HENRY
WILKS has filed a petition for dissolution of
marriage No. 2004 of 1963 on the ground of
your adultery with the Respondent EILEEN
MAY WILKS. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 13th April, 1964, and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from Messrs.
W. H. Clark Cole and Co., of 841 George
Street, Sydney, Solicitors for the Petitioner.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 787
ACROSS
I—Potentate1 —Potentate to trenchantly criticise New Year percus-
sion. (10)
6—Club spice came in disorder. (4)
10— The prissy to swear against a spring. (9)
11 — 101 containing her French description of a deer
fellow. (5)
12 — Farming folk suggest the antiquated portent. (6)
13— Westralian majesty deserting dreamland. (6)
16 — Achieves some coup d'etat scores allowed by wild
returns. (10)
17— Male legislator providing material for a hangman’s
necklace. (4)
20—The lord high executioner of
Titipu is having two striking
successes. (4)
22—Who spreads sweet conserves
on twist craft? (10)
25 Conserve that distant gorge.
(6)
26 An Annamese vessel makes
you merry. (3-3)
29 A louse to be a girl’s name.
(5)
30— China lodges in closets. (9)
31— State to leave none after the
slump food manufactured in
grain-like form. (4)
32 Geometrical figures shut up
by fishes. (10)
DOWN
1— Rooster after opium in the
bunk? (9)
2 Offensive negative one having
an indefinite quantity added.
(7)
3 Confucianists study these tan
laces carelessly. (8)
4 Try to reduce parliament. (4)
5 Name of a range capital for a
Chaldean Jolson. (4)
7 Name for a Scandinavian
Eisenhower resembling a
chopper. (3-4)
8— East ruler is making a little
go a long way. (5)
9 Eight fragment. (5)
14 — A puff-puff to practise. (5)
15 — A cannibal might eat this
vegetable. (5)
18—Saucy people (you and me)
relative to whooping cough.
(9)
19—Sweet parent vehicle having
nothing on. (8)
21—Putting a twist into something
relative to majesty. (7)
23 Thirty-one days of the month
relative to his worship. (7)
24 Wine to miss tea on approval.
(5)
25 Fellows’ postscript on tea
cracks. (5)
27 He goes against the current,
not without discomfort. (4)
28— Drink location summits are
up. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 786


OAout eifj uo
It all began with one truck nine years ago. Today, Ipec moves H million ton/miles of
express freight every month . . . the needs of 18,000 consignees in all States. Such has
been the growth of Ipec, Australia’s largest express company.
Growth through anticipation of Industry’s requirements. For
Ipec moves all types of freight. Fast, Efficiently, Economically.
AUSTRALIAN ENTERPRISE AT ITS MOST ENTERPRISING


V
1964
!1
&
'X
It’s new! Try it! The extra sting ...
?p|||||sg
m
m
mxr.s
re
S^32ar«s:»! - T^! l
pJ
of Holden’s big engine
now available with manual gearshift
Here it is . . . and how it goes! Holden with the big
115-h.p. ‘l79’ engine and manual gearshift. It’s just about
the best prescription you can take when you want some-
thing extra special in motoring enjoyment. And you can
choose it now, ■as an option, on all Holden models.
Of course, if you prefer, you can still get the ‘l79’ engine
with automatic transmission. Or, for economy-plus,
Holden’s spirited but economical 100-h.p. ‘l49’ engine
(manual or automatic on all models except Premiers).
Whichever Holden engine you choose, you can be sure
of getting features no other car near the price can offer.
For instance, a seven-bearing crankshaft for unmatched
smoothness and longer engine life. Or hydraulic valve
lifters on both engines, to put a permanent stop to tappet
noise and tappet adjustment.
And this isn’t all that’s new. The clutch and gearbox on
all manual gearshift Holdens have been made even
stronger, even longer-lasting than before. And you can
now choose the ultimate in driving ease with Holden’s
new Power Steering available at moderate extra cost
on all models.
If you’re thinking of buying a new car soon (or even if
you’re not quite ready) you’ll learn a lot from a chat
with your Holden Dealer. And while you’re about it,
try out a Holden* for yourself. Especially that new ‘l79’
manual job!
HOLDEN
AUSTRALIA’S OWN CAR PRICES FROM £BB5 PLUS TAX
‘l79’ engine £2O plus tax extra; standard on Premiers.
Power Steering £45 plus tax extra on all models.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDENS N 194
