

The Bulletin
MARCH 7, 1964
The Dissatisfied RAAF?
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
4-
Batman looks at...
COLLINS ST.
alllZ6aland, 2/-, Malaysia $ 1


*w
Q-
mm
S 3
Who gave this man a rise ?
Lucas table lift 12 volt motor
In the design stages of this curious-looking device, the makers
came to us with a problem. They wanted powerful, low voltage, motive
power to operate the hydraulic system of their new inspection platform.
And that’s how this man got a rise! Joseph Lucas (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
designed and produced a special motor with press-button control. Now,
these units are used for checking overhead lines, overhauling aircraft
engines, outside TV broadcasting, and forestry pruning.
Further proof of Lucas skill and ingenuity in automotive electrics.
LUCAS
“If it’s automotive electrics it's Lucas”
JOSEPH LUCAS (AUST.) PTY.LTD.
Victoria • New South Wales • Queensland • South Australia
Western Australia • Tasmania
LA2-F


National Notebook
Live Theatre
Wagga, NSW, with a population
of 23,000 and the centre of a rich
pastoral district, last year finished a
£160,000- Civic Theatre to become the
first country centre to complete a major
project of this kind. Wagga
Wagga, you might say,
now has everything, except
a stage company to use
its handsome theatre.
Take Wagga Wagga’s
theatre with its first-class
facilities and put it down
in North Sydney or Emerald Hill and
theatre people would go mad with excite-
ment. Put it down in a place like Wagga
Wagga and you find that its current pro-
gramme is a one-night stand for a tour-
ing company of “The Sentimental Bloke,”
a daytime conference on a separate state
for the Riverina, and rehearsals for a
local amateur production of “Calamity
Jane.”
The local musical comedy company,
directed by John Shepherd, apparently
does high quality work in that field, but
when the local group which presents
straight plays put on its first production
in the new theatre the producer came
from Canberra to do the job.
The ABC does not use the theatre. The
Commission says it has 700 subscribers
in Wagga Wagga. The theatre holds only
500 so the ABC still use the local picture
theatre, even for solo recitals.
Part of the trouble seems to be the
tendency of city managements to treat
all country towns alike. Whether you
provide a £160,000 theatre or the
ancient School of Arts you are still worth
only a one-night stand. The ABC and the
Arts Council always spread themselves
as far and as thin as possible.
Perhaps Wagga Wagga might have
hastened a little more slowly, but it is
already talking about a 2000-seat hall in
its new council chambers for orchestral
concerts. In the meantime it would be
tragic if its beautiful theatre lapsed into
a conference hall.
In The Snob Belt
L'Worge Johnston, whose new novel
about Melbourne before World War
11, “My Brother Jack”, is due here from
Collins in mid-March, has recently re-
turned to live here after several years
on a Greek island in the middle of the
Onassis-cruise Snob Belt. We went
along to talk with him about living cheap-
ly among the tourist rich.
“The snobs come down to the Greek
islands and lie in wait,” Mr Johnston
said. “They send little boy runners down
to each yacht to see who’s on board.
When they find out they swoop.
“I remember a Greek woman from
Athens she collects famous people.
A terribly mean old bitch. Marc Chagall
arrived at her house in beachcombing
holiday rags. He said
could she sit for him for
half an hour as he’d love
to do a drawing of her.
She dismissed him.
“Some months later
someone looked in the
visitor’s book and said,
‘My God, you had Chagall here!’ She
burst into tears. ‘Why didn’t someone
tell me he was famous?’ she howled.”
Sir Winston Churchill, Garbo (“still
gorgeous”), Maria Callas and others
would come each season from the Onas-
sis yacht. And young Australians. “They
seem to feel their country is run by an-
other generation my generation
which is implacably opposed to their
aspirations and ambitions.
“They resent things like the RSL
and Anzac Day. They’re pacifists and
anti-chauvinists.”
We asked how far the reputations of
Australian writers and painters had
spread into Europe, "recalling that so
often an English reputation is mistakenly
called a European one a very diffe-
rent thing. “There is a limited knowledge
of Nolan in France. Patrick White is
known, and David Boyd. And Morris
West, partly because of the Catholic
theme. As far as I know, that’s all. But
there's a beginning.
“How are we to become better known
in Europe? We could do a lot more than
we do to that end by establishing govern-
ment travelling scholarships like the Ful-
bright and other private grants. The
Canadian Government, for instance,
simply pours money into its creative
artists.”
And now that long sieges of illness,
privation and increasing tourism had
driven Johnston and his novelist wife
Charmian Clift out of Greece (and home-
sickness had something to do with it,
too) what were his plans at home? “To
complete the trilogy of which ‘My
Brother Jack’ is the first part. I want to
show how the Australian myth survives.
How it changes or doesn’t change. The
second book will show the formation of
the Australian character in exile. What
he gains and what he loses.
“The third book will show the return
of the exile. As you see, I am back here.
And the work is, in a sense, an autobio-
graphy.”
Page
DISCONTENT IN THE RAAF (i
“Our morale is bad”
•
BUSINESS AND FINANCE 48
CELLARMASTER 30
CROSSWORD 66
EIGHTY YEARS AGO 8
FORUM 20
HUMOR 36
FETTERS 37
MAN ON THE LAND 64
OUT AND ABOUT 13
OVERSEAS • 31
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
RED PAGE 43
REVIEWS 40
TANNER 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
fr
What Makes Collins Street Great? 13
Eichmann in Jerusalem But for
the Grace of God? 20
Myths about “Aversiou Therapy"
Thug Drugs? 24
The Cardinal v. Santamaria 28
The Wedding of Food and Wine .. 30
Jack Ruby’s Mr Belli 31
Krishna Menon Indicts Britain .. 33
More Muscle for the Export Drive 48
Copland and Korrnan on TV 51
Our “Voluntary" Meat Agreement
with US 64
How Australia is Helping Pakistan 65
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone: 27 5971.
Advertising: 163 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666, Ext. 380.
Vol. 86
No. 4385


Victory
HHhe committee appointed by the Sydney
A City Council and headed by the Lord
Mayor and Chief Justice of NSW to
determine the site of Governor Phillip’s
landing and the raising of the English
colors on the shores of Sydney Cove
on January 26, 1788, has announced
its decision. It has accepted the
evidence that the landing and ceremony
took place at a point near the southern
end of Macquarie Place. It rejected the
dictum of the Royal Australian Historical
Society that the landing took place at
a point on the western side of the Cove
near the Overseas Terminal, at which the
RAHS proposed that a plaque be erected.
The RAHS did not offer to the com-
mittee evidence to support its submission.
The move to have the committee appoint-
ed was made from The Bulletin office.
The Spirit of Journalism
TlThen the NSW ALP Executive re-
cently drew up a list of 13 recom-
mendations to be submitted to the
Federal Executive, it decided not to re-
lease information about its decisions for
discussion in the Press. This motion
against giving the Press the decisions was
moved by Mr George Godfrey. Mr
George Godfrey is not only a journalist,
he is president of the Australian Journa-
lists’ Association.
John Walter Forsyth
HThe sudden death of John Walter
Forsyth on February 22 passed al-
most unnoticed but it deprived Australia
of one of its most knowledgeable historio-
graphers. A kindly, unassuming member
of the family whose name is associated
with bookselling and with the law, he was
an old boy of Brisbane Grammar School
a solicitor and during the war a lieuten-
ant-commander in the RAN. Of fine
appearance and genial and courteous
presence and manner, he suffered a
severe heart affliction after the war and
long years of illness which culminated in
the loss of a leg. Deprived of the physical
ability to pursue his profession he de-
voted himself to the study of the history
of the Pacific Ocean in the days before
white settlement and acquired an unriv-
alled store of knowledge of original
sources. And though he published very
little, he was known among experts in
Australian history as a man in the very
front rank of his field, who brought a
dispassionate outlook and a legal brain
into play in his work. He was for a
period a Trustee of the New South Wales
Public Library. At the time of his death
he was the historical member of the Chief
Justice’s Committee determining the site
of the flag-raising on the shores of Sydney
Cove, and he had in proof a detailed and
valuable analysis of the chapters of Pro-
fessor Manning Clark’s History of Aus-
tralia, Vol 1, dealing with pre-settlement
exploration. When seemingly in good
health and in full mental vigor, his death
came suddenly.
Rumors
the long quiet of the uni-
versity vacation there have been
desultory rumors about the Orr case. The
first of these was that a revolt among
the philosophers stood a chance of up-
setting the executive recommendation in
favor of the December settlement. But
this did not gather force. Now the latest
to gain some currency in Hobart is that
Orr has decided not to sign the final
papers. But last week in Sydney this was
denied and it was said that the precise
details of the final terms were still being
niggled over by the legal representatives
but that the settlement was not in danger.
Tanner
"It's not the fix I'm worried about - it's the anti-trust laws!"


PLAIN ENGLISH
The American Dilemma
In South Vietnam
YI/TTHIN a few days has come
'' news of further military set-
backs in South Vietnam and Laos;
the resignation of Mr Roger Hils-
man, US Assistant Secretary for Far
Eastern Affairs and one of the
officials most closely associated
with recent disastrous policies in
Saigon; and reports that Washing-
ton and Saigon are considering
bombing Communist arsenals in
North Vietnam.
As usual when faced with the
facts of international life a few Aus-
tralian commentators have reacted
to the thought of new American
initiatives against the Communists
with horror. But before one can
ever begin to discuss this issue, the
full weight of tire American dilem-
ma in South Vietnam must be un-
derstood.
The first point is that under no
circumstances can America afford
to be defeated there. If it is, it will
be “proven” to the world that
America is what Communist China
has always said it is, a “paper
tiger” with world-wide and not
only Asian consequences. In parti-
cular a defeat in South Vietnam
would demoralise the remaining
free States in South-East Asia,
inviting Thailand, Cambodia and
Laos to seek accommodation with-
in the Communist Chinese empire.
With Thailand gone, Malaysia with
its large Chinese population would
be under irresistible pressure to
follow suit together with an un-
stable Indonesia which has the
world’s biggest Communist Party
outside China. In other words, free
Asia stands or falls in South Viet-
nam with all that such a defeat
would imply for Australia.
On the other hand, if South Viet-
namese and Americans do bomb
North Vietnam headquarters of the
Vietcong, it risks a situation that
might escalate into a world nuclear
war, without in any case attacking
the main arsenals of the Vietcong,
most of whose weapons are home-
made or captured from the South
Vietnamese army.
In fact it is still unlikely that the
Americans will adopt this policy,
but the point remains that while it
might escalate into world war, the
recent policies will almost certain-
ly escalate into a Communist take-
over of South Asia. It may be that
a sealing of the frontiers with Cam-
bodia, North Vietnam and Laos
will be as' effective as bombing
North Vietnam, particularly if this
1
is supported by anti-Communist
guerrilla action in North Vietnam,
by a new aggressiveness against the
Vietcong and by a revival of
morale among the South Vietnam-
ese, the “sea” in which the Viet-
cong “fish” swim.
The only certain thing in the
situation is that the recent Ameri-
can policies spell disaster; that
whereas in the beginning of 1963
victory seemed in sight, today de-
feat often seems more likely; and
that any realistic reappraisal by the
Americans should be welcomed and
supported by Australia.
For Australians, one overriding
consideration is that while America
can survive the fall of South Asia
to the Communists withdrawing
to Fortress America or to the
Atlantic Community Australia
may not. If it becomes necessary to
take the war to its source in North
Vietnam, this price will have to be
paid, with Australia contributing.
TT is some years since Malcolm
Muggeridge struck journalistic
oil by conducting a pseudo-realistic
examination of the Monarchy, its
functions, uses and probable future.
It was quite fun for a while and
Mr Muggeridge earned dazzling
sums in the United States where
readers of the “Saturday Evening
Post” were under the illusion that
he was risking imprisonment in the
Tower.
Since then the subject has be-
come rather tedious and is in fact
rather difficult to get excited about
one way or the other. The Mon-
archy is there and any serious dis-
cussion of it is eventually inhibited
by the sheer inertia arising from
the effort of contemplating what
replaces it. Nevertheless, to do him
justice, Mr Muggeridge did raise
some queries which were answered
last week in bland and cheerful
fashion by the Duke of Edinburgh
A Modern Monarchy:
It’ll Do for the Duke
who is, in his more relaxed moods,
a superb salesman. It was true,
said the Duke, that the Royal
Family lived in what was virtually
a museum, that members of the
Royal Family divided up the arts
between them, that the areas in
which he could contribute most
were the fringe ones of voluntary
and charitable activities and that
his constitutional position paradoxi-
cally gave him more freedom of
private opinion rather than less.
He then made the point that the
Monarchy’s worst enemies were the
extreme right traditionalists. For
a brief moment he gave a revealing
insight into his difficult role of try-
ing to help maintain an ancient in-
stitution cocooned in history which
has been outstripped by the reali-
ties of political power. It is a diffi-
cult role, in any but a few countries
all but impossible, for which per-
haps there ought to be more sym-
pathy.


THIS AUSTRALIA
DEFENCE
Getting Out of the RAAF
“Our morale is bad”
D. E. FAIRBAIRN
Work ahead
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
A small group of officers met last
week to protest against conditions in
the RAAF. All the officers were young,
all were professional graduates, and all
swore that they would get out of the
RAAF as soon as they could. It was not
because they disliked the life; it was
because the conditions were so unsatis-
factory and the Air Board maintained
an extraordinary attitude of indifference.
One officer said: “The RAAF is losing
technical officers, that is scientists,
engineers and such, at the rate of 25 a
year and getting only 18 replacements.
This is happening at a time when they
are screaming for highly skilled technical
men to keep the Mirage in the air.
Later they will have to deal with the
TFX. Actually these men are more im-
portant than air crew. But what are
they doing to attract them? Not a damn-
ed thing. Our morale is bad.”
Their complaints came under four
general headings: pay, superannuation,
living accommodation and travel allow-
ance. Superannuation has been dealt
with already in The Bulletin (Feb. 15)
so I will deal with the other three. Much
of the trouble dates from the profes-
sional engineers’ determination handed
down by the Federal Arbitration Com-
mission in 1961. This boosted pay all
round, but it was held that it did not
apply to the Services.
The gathering quoted some interesting
cases. There w'as the Flight Lieutenant
engineering officer (not present at the
meeting) who was Bachelor of Engineer-
ing and also held a Diploma of Aero-
nautical Engineering. Including his uni-
form allowance, he earned £2170 a year.
Yet he had two civilian engineers with
lesser qualifications working under him
who earned £3OO a year more than he
did because they came under the 1961
determination. They also quoted the case
of an engineer officer at Woomera, who
resigned and came back to exactly the
same job as a civilian, and, of course,
earned an extra £3OO a year.
The higher one went, the larger the
margin became. After 10 years of service
a Flight Lieutenant (married) earned
£.2160; the civilian £2BOO. In the case
of the serviceman this was also a maxi-
mum figure, and unlike his civilian
friend he could not earn overtime.
The special envy of the group were
the “lucky ones” doctors, dentists and
aircrew whom they called “the fly boys”.
These three categories received special
allowances. A man could be a scientist,
economist, engineer, lawyer, accountant,
or expert in electronics, with, say, rank
of Wing Commander but he could be
getting just the same rate of pay as an
Administrative Wing Commander who
had failed to get his leaving.
A lthough The Bulletin has pub-
licised current deficiencies in
Australia’s defence preparations, the
problems for the new defence and
armed services Ministers are not only
ones of equipment but also of men.
In recent issues The Bulletin has
reported complaints about conditions
of service by officers in the Army
and Air Force; this issue gives more
details on the RAAF and rounds off
the picture with the RAN.
But doctors and dentists were different.
Often their University degrees were no
more difficult to obtain and in a case
like aeronautical engineering even easier,
yet Flight Lieutenant, Squadron Leader
or Wing Commander doctors and dentists
received £B3O a year more than other
Flight Lieutenants, Squadron Leaders or
Wing Commanders. They also received
a starting rank of Flight Lieutenant and
unless they committed some incredible
act of misbehavior, they were Squadron
Leaders within four or five years.
The other professional men started as
Flying Officers and they were lucky if
they made Squadron Leader by the time
they were 40. As for the “fly boys”,
they received 10s. a day flying pay for
the first eight years and after that Bs.
a day . . . whether they flew or not.
The question that immediately comes
to mind is what possessed students to
join the RAAF in the first place. The
explanation was simple. “Just the same
way as they get people to become
teachers. They get you when you are
young and starry-eyed. And make no
mistake, it’s a mighty thing for middle-
class families who can’t afford to send
their children to the University or give
them a good diploma course. If you
accept their conditions, as an under-
graduate, they pay your fees and give
you a living wage over the last two or
three years. So you become a doctor,
scientist, radio technician at Her
Majesty’s expense and in return you
have to give what is called return of
service, which varies, but it could be,
say, four years.” The gathering gave its
unanimous approval to the “return of
service” system. What they objected to
were the unhappy conditions which made
them all want to leave the RAAF.
Housing was a major cause of bad
morale. Postings in the RAAF could
be sudden and frequent. Laverton was
an interesting example. There were 250
airmen, 70 NCOs and 12 officers waiting
for married quarters and not all those
married quarters were worth waiting for.
They explained a complicated system
of points for getting these houses. The
more children, the more years of service,
the more months of waiting the greater
the points you earned. Even so it was
no trouble to wait two or three years for
a house. Upon going to another posting
it was possible to receive a temporary
accommodation allowance of up to £5.
This went nowhere, particularly in places
like Darwin where the rent could be
£l5 a week, and you mightn’t get a
house for the whole length of your three-
year posting, because you did not have
four children to build up your points.
What really angered them was the
time it took to get the rent allowance.
Approval had to come from Treasury
and this took about three months or
more. They quoted the case of an airman
who waited 11 months for his allowance
while he paid £9 a week for a flat.
On the credit side they get free medi-
cal and dental services, but not for de-
pendants, and they get free hospitalisa-
tion for periods of up to 6 months.
Housing, where it is available, is cheap,
never more than 15 per cent of the ser-
viceman’s pay. Then there are such
benefits as the mess, meals for 3s. to 45.,
and from the central welfare department
they get interest free loans on furniture
of £l5O, and housing £3OO.
The next point was the travelling
allowance. They said that the travelling
allowance in the RAAF was £3 a day


for capital cities. “And you try support-
ing yourself in Sydney or Melbourne on
£3 a day.” They explained that last
June, travel rates for the Public Service
went up by Bs. a day and Treasury gave
approval that this should also apply to
defence services. The Navy got it almost
immediately. Nine months had passed
and still the Air Board had done nothing
about it. The new Minister for the Air,
Mr D. E. Fairbairn, has some work
ahead.
RAN
The Morale of
Naval Officers
Less money than the Merchant Marine
DR A. J. FORBES
Familiar problem-
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
llfiTHiN the Royal Australian Navy
there have been no major manifes-
tations of discontent like the Army of-
ficers’ resignations or the strong feelings
of the RAAF officers reported above.
However, there is a degree of dissatisfac-
tion over pay and conditions among a
significant proportion of naval officers —•
the engineers—who make up about 20
per cent. The problem is familiar to the
acting Minister for the Navy, Dr A. J.
Forbes, from his Army portfolio.
The source of their unhappiness lies
in the application of the Professional
Engineers’ Award to their counterparts
outside the Services. It is suggested, for
instance, that the second engineer on a
coastal ship, taking overtime into ac-
count, will have average annual earnings
greater than the Deputy Chief of Naval
Technical Services that is the No. 2
engineer for the RAN.
Their feelings are complicated by the
fact that professional loadings are given
to doctors and dentists within the RAN,
which of course is the only way such
officers can be obtained. Fringe bene-
fits such as free medical can do some-
thing to cut down the gap between the
naval engineer and others.
A factor operating against any large
scale resignations has been the Navy
policy over applications of resignation.
As a general rule, those leaving Jervis
Bay sign a document at 18 binding
themselves for 12 years. After that they
may submit their resignations. The Navy
Board states that its policy then is to
question whether there has been “a fair
return for money spent on training”; to
consider each case on its merits; and
finally to allow compassionate cases at
any time. If the Navy Board rejects a
resignation, then the officer may apply
again in three years’ time. There have
been some resignations of RAN engineer
officers submitted and rejected, but not
many.
It is understood among engineer of-
ficers that Navy Board policy is that an
Engineer Lt.-Commander will not be
released until he has reached 37. By that
age of course his stake in the Defence
Forces Retirement Benefit Fund is so
high as to make resignation unprofitable.
As in the other services the DFRB
scheme is a fierce and often bitter topic
of discussion among officers. The
manifesto of the RAAF Group Captain
against the scheme (see Bulletin
22/2/64) was circulating at Garden
Island in Sydney last week.
BUSINESS
Deaf Ear on Restrictive Practices
Snedden even more determined than Sir Garfield?
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
TAespite recent improvements made in
the Draft Bill, a disturbingly wide
gulf still remains between the considered
opinions of business and the Federal
Government on the desirability of going
ahead with the restrictive practices
legislation. It is understood that the
Bill mentioned by the Governor-General
in his speech at last week’s opening of
Parliament is getting near its final shape
and, though Lord De L’lsle said the Bill
would have another reasonably long
public airing before being debated in
Parliament, it seems unlikely to be
changed much either in principle or in
scope before enactment unless business
makes a much more determined stand.
What has happened so far is simply that
the authors of the legislation have turned
a deaf ear to those who want it aban-
doned and paid insufficient attention to
those who want to restrict its scope.
After recent consultations in Canberra,
Melbourne businessmen are still despair-
ing on the matter in face of the obstinacy
of the Attorney-General’s department.
Apparently Mr Billy Mackie Snedden is,
if anything, more determined than his
predecessor, Sir Garfield Barwick, to
provide a Roman holiday for bureaucracy
and the legal profession from the
legislation.
Mr J. R. A. Glenn, Chairman of
ICIANZ, which admittedly stands to be
one of the most widely affected by the
legislation, soundly condemned the whole
idea at the company’s annual meeting
here last week. He said the Australian In-
dustries’ Preservation Act enacted in 1906
covers very much the same ground as
the proposed new legislation which will
be subject to the same constitutional
limitations as existing law. Indeed the
Federal Attorney-General could well be
Bill-making in a vacuum without firm
undertakings by all State legislatures
that they will put through parallel Bills
along the lines of the Uniform Com-
panies Acts.
Not only that, assuming the legislation
is in fact made to work, Mr Glenn riled
at the likely addition to industry’s costs.
“At a time when industry is being urged
to reduce costs”, he said, “it is difficult
to see what there is to commend the sub-
stitution of costly administrative controls
for existing legislation and established
principle”.
Confronted by Cabinet’s determination
to proceed with the legislation more
business organisations have taken the
view that if there must be legislation they
must seek to influence it in the Bill-
framing stage. Reports this week sug-
gest that their representations (including
one last week) in which thev sought to
convince Ministers that no trade practice
should be outlawed automatically have
had some success in that of the four
practices (collusive tendering, collusive
bidding, persistent price cutting at a loss,
and using monopoly power to the detri-
ment of consumers) only the first one
(collusive tendering) will be left in the
forbidden category and only then in cases
where there has been deliberate intent
to defraud. In the other three cases
apparently the Bill will provide for out-
lawing at the discretion of the Registrar
after full examination and not before
the offender has been given the oppor-
tunity to adjust the practice.
This is a little better than the original
idea but there has been no relenting on
the early proposal for the registration of
multilateral practices that is, practices
in restraint of competition by a collection
of different companies operating at the


same level of production, manufacture or
distribution. Included in these are boy-
cotts, the inducing of refusals to deal,
limitations on the right to membership
of a trade association, price fixing between
different firms, uniform terms of dealing
and restriction of trade outlets.
On the score of unilateral and bi-
lateral practices involving a single firm
or agreements between two firms at
different stages in the production or distri-
bution process, it seems that last week’s
talks between Cabinet and business or-
ganisations failed to convince ministers
that these should be dropped from the
Bill. However, in the phasing of the
operative clauses of the Bill, this group
of practices, which includes retail price
maintenance, discriminatory and exclu-
sive dealing and refusals to deal, will
be the last to come under scrutiny. But
the Registrar will be empowered to en-
force the registration of any particular
offending practice coming to his notice.
Lest the latter may seem to leave busi-
ness in a state of uncertainty in relation
to bilateral and unilateral practices,
provision is to be made for firms to test
the legality of any particular practice
without prejudice to their position. But
despite that provision (as the Registrar
would from the outset have power to
drop on to any particular practice and
enforce its registration under penalties)
it still looks as if most businesses in the
country would also feel obliged to clear
themselves from the start just in case.
That would make a mockery of the
“phasing” procedures in the Bill. It would
be better to drop unilateral and bilateral
practices from the Bill altogether.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Playford's
Gerrymander Election?
Sir Thomas’s setback
SIR T. PLAYFORD
A gesture
FROM R. L. HETHERINGTON IN ADELAIDE
A fter months of preparation and con-
troversy, Sir Thomas Playford’s
attempt to give South Australia new
electoral boundaries has failed. The vote
on his redistribution bill came as an
anti-climax, following a week of excite-
ment and speculation unusual in South
Australian politics. The Government ac-
cepted defeat and Parliament quickly
proceeded with its business.
Since its near-defeat in 1962, the Play-
ford Government has been clinging to
office on the casting vote of the Speaker,
the Independent member for the wheat-
growing electorate of Ridley, Mr Stott.
The 1962 election brought home to the
Government that it could no longer hope
to shelter behind the present weighted
boundaries. Population shifts, resulting
from urban and country industrial deve-
lopment, are materially assisting the
Labor Party.
The Liberal and Country League look-
ed around for a new electoral formula,
and eventually produced one of consider-
able ingenuity. It gave twenty seats
each to a closely defined rural area and
a greatly expanded metropolitan area.
Two additional country industrial seats
were to be created from the present
three Labor seats of Whyalla, Stuart, and
Port Pirie. In this way, with the coun-
try vote weighted and the industrial
Labor vote closely contained, it would be
difficult for the Labor Party to win an
election in the foreseeable future even
with a clear overall majority of votes.
It would be almost impossible for Labor
to win the constitutional majority neces-
sary to change the system.
The proposal, it was reported, was
received with scant enthusiasm by a
number of Government members. Some
would have their seats abolished. Some,
it is said, preferred honourable defeat
to an electoral system of doubtful mora-
lity. Some were concerned that the pro-
posed redistribution made narrow majori-
ties almost certain, with a strong possibi-
lity of a deadlocked House.
Expecting victory within two elections
under the present system, after over 30
years in Opposition, the Labor Party
was bitterly, unequivocally, and actively
opposed to the Government scheme from
the outset. For once the South Austra-
lian Opposition refused to compromise
in any way.
A simple means was to hand. The
Government scheme would require an
amendment of the Constitution Act. For
such an amendment an absolute majority
in each House of Parliament is manda-
tory. With an evenly divided House the
Government, therefore, needed the
Speakers vote. But under the Consti-
tution, the Speaker has a casting vote
only when the voting is equal. The
Labor tactic was to leave at least one
member out of the House for vital di-
visions. The bill would then pass 19 to
18. The Speaker would be denied his
casting vote, and the Government its
constitutional majority.
Some constitutional authorities, how-
ever, considered that the Speaker could,
if he so desired, rule that under the
circumstances, he could exercise a de-
liberative vote and carry the bill. This
was taken seriously by the Labor Party.
It prepared a two-pronged attack to
THE CRIME EPIDEMIC
80 Years Ago: March 8, 1884
A ccording to one theory the crime
epidemic now raging arises from
godless schools, or inadequate eccle-
siastical means at the disposal of the
holy men. Might it not be urged with
more cogency that the sole hope of
checking the epidemic and rooting out
its cause lies in multiplying the so-
called “godless” schools? Archbishops,
bishops, vicars-general, deans, arch-
deacons, archpriests, priests, canons,
deacons, curates, catechists, modera-
tors, evangelists, pastors in galore, to
say nothing of Sunday-school teachers,
have been at work these years and
years. Can it be that the epidemic is
in any way the result, either directly
or indirectly, of their work? Had a
similar amount of energy and coin
been expended during the past two
generations upon technical education,
would not the result have been, if
less religious, more moral? The
860,000 inhabitants of New South
Wales support some 860 clerics
(irrespective of Sunday-school cate-
chists, nuns, monks, and so on) at a
cost of some half a million sterling
a year. Were this “mixed” Religious
Establishment a united organisation
for the promotion of good in this
work-a-day world, by plain, sensible,
practical means, hope might surely
not unreasonably be entertained of
training up an enlightened population
within a generation.
TMTessage from Melbourne: Enthu-
siasts propose to send Colonel Sar-
good out to save Egypt. Victoria
willing, but can't spare him just
now. Can spare the enthusiasts.


BOOST YOUR BUSINESS WITH AUSTRALIA’S
TOP-SELLING, TOP-SAVING TRUCKS!
J 15/18 CWT & 30 CWT
V '
... Q
mi Kn am
J 2, 3 & 4 TONNERS
J 4, 5 & 6 TONNERS
S&rllff
. S
KC
TON
KGL 7 TON
m
NOl L m
,-feji I
I
NOl 9
13M
J 6/7 TON
4 WHEEL DRIVE
WITH BEDFORD YOU SAVE ON LOW INITIAL COST, LOW RUNNING
AND MAINTENANCE COSTS, HIGH RESALE VALUE ...
OUTSTANDING QUALITY AND DEPENDABILITY
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST SELLING TRUCK For the 12 months
ended October, 1963, official registration figures showed
that 7104 new Bedford trucks were sold, 2726 more than the
next make. Bedford has led truck sales in Australia for the
past 6 years
PROTECTED BY THE GMH WARRANTY 12 MONTHS OR 12,000 MILES
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S
PTY. LIMITED
Sold and Serviced by over 500 authorised Bedford Dealers throughout Australia
BFDIS/63
HERE IS THE BEDFORD RANGE:
Semi-Forward Control 15 cwt Delivery Van
with 171 cu.ft. load area, 102" wheelbase,
58.8 B.H.P. o.h.v. 4-cylinder engine, 3-speed
gearbox, synchromesh on all forward gears.
Price £960 plus tax.
15 Normal Control Models to take payloads
from 15/18 cwt. to 7 tons . . . wheelbases
from 119" to 179". Trucks up to 5 tons have
a 214 cu.in. engine giving 100 B.H.P. at
3,600 R.P.M., 184 lb.ft. torque at 1,200
R.P.M. 6 and 6/7 tonners have a 300
cu.in. engine giving 133 B.H.P. at 3,400
R.P.M., 267 lb.ft. torque at 1,200 R.P.M.
Features include 5-speed gearbox and
2-speed rear axles. From £1,215 (chassis and
cab) plus tax.
12 Forward Control (cab-ahead-of-engine)
models to take payloads from 3 to 10 tons
.... wheelbases from 96" to 167". Trucks
up to 5 tons have a 214 cu.in. engine 7
and 10 tonners a 300 cu.in. engine with the
optional 330 cu.in.
Bedford Diesel engine on the 7 ton 2-speed
axle model. Heavy-duty transmissions feature
5-speed gear box and 2-speed rear axles.
Prices from £1,524 (chassis and cab) plus
tax.
2 Four-Wheel-Drive Forward Control Models
. . . 156" wheelbase. 300 cu.in. Petrol or 330
cu.in. Diesel engines. Available with either
single or dual rear wheels. Prices from £2,411
(chassis, cab) plus tax.


meet such an eventuality. Had the
Speaker cast a deliberative vote it was
to be challenged immediately in the
courts as unconstitutional. At the same
time the railwaymen, tramway men, gas-
workers, and waterside workers were
to come out on a three-hour strike and
march on Parliament House for a mas-
sive demonstration. A series of rolling
strikes was to follow.
None of these interesting possibilities
came to pass. The Electoral Commission
set up at the end of 1962 tabled its report
last October. The Government ignored
it. Then on February 18, at the begin-
ning of a two-week session of Parlia-
ment, Sir Thomas Playford made the
surprise announcement that a redistribu-
tion bill was about to be introduced. To
add to its appeal to the electorate, it was
to include a provision extending the
Legislative Council franchise to the wives
(or husbands) of qualified Council
electors.
It appeared, however, that the Govern-
ment, having accepted defeat as inevit-
able, was merely making a gesture. Sir
Thomas Playford, speaking more in sor-
row than in anger, was the only LCL
member to intervene in the debate which
was kept going by nine Labor speakers.
The voting on the second reading was
19 to 17 and the Speaker declared the
bill lost. The question remains whether
Sir Thomas will use it as an issue for an
early State election.
ART
Provincials?
No abstracts
FROM A NEWCASTLE CORRESPONDENT
(NSW) City Council alder-
men consider they are reliable
judges of art more reliable anyhow
than the Director of the small but
vigorous Art Gallery the aldermen them-
selves established in 1957.
Last week the aldermen made an
extraordinary decision, which was only
disqualified at the last minute by a
stratagem from the Lord Mayor (Aid.
Frank Purdue). The move was to bind
the Art Gallery Director (Mr. Gilbert
Docking) to council “confirmation” of
purchases of abstracts priced at more
than £lOO. Critics of Mr Docking’s ap-
portionment of art purchases have no
complaints about figurative works in the
city’s art gallery . . . Dobell’s “The
Strapper” (“That can stay”), Captain
Wallis’ views of pioneer Newcastle,
Rupert Bunny’s “Summer Time” etc.
They have described works by Wage-
maker, Tucker, Whiteley, Hodgkinson,
Gleghorn, among others, as “utter rub-
bish”, “an escape for a few artists who
would like to be able to paint” and “a
waste of valuable floor space.” In fact,
the real vote on whether to place a re-
striction on the Art Gallery Director
was 10-9 in favor, but the Lord Mayor
manoeuvred and counted the votes of
two aldermen who had not bothered to
walk from the Council Chamber 300
yards away in the negative, upsetting the
move 11-10.
Aid. Purdue (the Lord Mayor) declar-
ed carried his motion that the Council
express its confidence in, and apprecia-
tion of, Mr Docking’s administration of
the Art Gallery, and that the selection
of paintings to the limit of the gallery’s
annual budget (a mere £.2,000) be left
to the Director’s discretion.
However suitable this decision was for
the reputation of the excellent provincial
art gallery, it was legally questioned
and the critical aldermen gave notice of
motion calling for it to be rescinded. The
move to have purchases of abstracts
“confirmed” by the Council will come
before the Council again soon.
LAW
The Clyne Serial
“Esoteric transaction ”
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
'V7"et another episode in one of the
longer-running legal serials current
in Australia was played out last week
in the panelled Banco Court at King
Street before the Full Supreme Court of
NSW.
Peter Leopold Clyne, former barrister
of the Supreme Court of NSW, was
making another bid, his second, for re-
admission to the roll. He had been
struck off by a unanimous ruling 6f
the Full Supreme Court in December,
1959, for professional misconduct in
Central Court proceedings earlier that
year.
After that Mr Clyne went to the Full
High Court in 1960 and conducted his
own case in an appeal which is still
talked about. He piled the Bar table at
Darlinghurst in Sydney with 200 law
books, and cited cases as far back as
the seventeenth century. He failed.
When Peter Leopold Clyne went into
the witness box last week he told the full
bench that he realised that in 1961 he
had not felt “whole-hearted” acceptance
of the original Supreme and High Court
rulings.
But Mr D. Staff, QC, for the Bar As-
sociation, who opposed the readmission,
cross-examined Mr Clyne on a certain
real estate transaction last year. (Since his
being disbarred Mr Clyne has been in-
volved in real estate dealing on a large
scale, with frequent publicity about his
attempts to upset the Landlord and
Tenant Act.) Mr Staff last week claimed
that the particular transaction at Neutral
Bay, Sydney, last year had been marked
by “a complete insensitivity” by Mr
Clyne towards other people’s interests.
The transaction was complicated and,
when Mr N. Jenkyn, QC, rose to defend
his client, he found himself under a
barrage of questions from the Chief
Justice, Mr Justice Herron. The Chief
Justice called the matter a “somewhat
esoteric dealing” and spoke of the whole
affair (where Mr Clyne had let a pur-
chaser in before he himself had com-
pleted his own purchase of premises)
as being “an odd business, you know,
my word it was.”
After two days hearing the Full Bench
reserved its decision.
SCIENTOLOGY
The E-Meter
“I love talking ”
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
IVIH K. V. Anderson, QC, sallied out
A of the Herbarium last week into
the less botanical surroundings of the
Melbourne’s Scientology Academy,
sometimes known as the premises of the
Hubbard Association of Scientologists
International. There the Royal Com-
missioner and his attendant barristers,
solicitors and press-men watched closed
circuit TV demonstrations of the “pro-
cessing” of four “pre-clears”. (A “pre-
clear” is a student or apprentice in
Scientology.)
By direction, the names of those
taking part in the demonstrations were
supressed. The star of the demonstra-
tions was a young woman who said of
Scientology: “It's allowed me to talk
and I love talking”. She told her
“auditor”, i.e., the scientologist asking
the questions, that Scientology had made
her realise that she made life difficult
without it being difficult. Further, it
had increased her performance at her
w'ork and had enabled her to handle
situations at home so that everybody
was happier. Previously she had been
very unstable and if anything came up
she would just cry and run out.
While the demonstration was under
way she was also holding an “E-meter”
which allegedly measures emotional re-
actions and its dial was shown to the
watchers on another closed television
screen.
The Commissioner watched the tests
after getting, in evidence, earlier in the
week a wealth of detail on the tests and
the ritual language from Mr lan
Kenneth Tampion, the Technical Direc-
tor of the Association in Victoria.


r
PRECISION
is a watch-word with
Swissair. For twenty-
one jewel service
wherever you want to
go overseas ... fly
Swissair. The thor-
oughness of the Swiss
is the main-spring of
Swissair’s worldwide
popularity.
You can join a Swiss-
air flight almost any-
where in the world.
Swisscare can startfor
you in the Far East.
Board a ‘Coronado’ Jet
in Tokyo, Hong Kong,
Manila or Bangkok and
fly, overnight, to
Europe.
See your Travel Agent about your
Swissair business-with-pleasure
trip.
SWISSAIR
General Sales Agents:
Australia - ANSETT-A.N.A.
New Zealand and Pacific Islands TEAL
A timely reminder to visit
Switzerland this year and see the entire
country laid before you at the ...
LAUSANNE
EXPOSITION
April to October, 1964
also
SWISS INDUSTRIES
FAIR
Basle April 11 to 21, 1964
Tampion explained that he had been a
school teacher and a university student.
But most importantly for Melbourne he
explained that Scientology had helped
him when he played football for South
Melbourne and won the award for the
“best first year player”.
Another scientologist, Roger David
Meadmore, who had run his own col-
lege, in St. Kilda Road, introduced the
name of a Mr Wearne to the Com-
mission when he told of giving him 200
hours processing which cost £6OO. Mr
Wearne, who was last in the public eye
when he had a chain of union and ALP
journals in a small publishing empire,
is an almost certain witness.
TRAFFIC
Life in Cars
52 m.p.h. is best
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
RACV ended the celebrations of
A its diamond jubilee year last week
with a symposium on “living with the
motor car” for which it brought to
Melbourne two world authorities on
traffic problems. One was Professor
Colin Buchanan, who holds the chair
of Transport at Imperial College, Lon-
don University. The other was Mr
Burton Marsh, Director of the Traffic
Engineering Department of the Ameri-
can Automobile Association.
Mr Marsh in an 18,000 word paper
spoke mainly of the problems of road
use by vehicles in the United States.
The “slow down for safety” formula
can, according to American experience,
contribute to accidents in certain con-
ditions. A study of the speeds of cars
involved in some 10,000 accidents on
rural highways showed that cars driven
at speeds in the 50-70 m.p.h. range
had fewer accidents than those going
at faster or slower speeds. Around
52 m.p.h. seemed safest.
Another study debunked the efficacy
of traffic lights at school crossings.
Some 40 intersections used by children
in a large American town were studied
for a three year period. The group of
10 intersections with traffic lights
turned up twice as many accidents to
children as the combined total of the
other 30 intersections, which were all
patrolled by officers, janitors, etc.
Again, Mr Marsh told of a city street
carrying 55,000 vehicles per day when
traffic lights were installed, 30 per cent
more pedestrians were hit.
Mr Marsh opposed curing city traffic
tangles by discouraging or banning the
entry of cars to central areas. “We
live in the automobile age and if
people want to drive their cars they
must be allowed to go where they wish”.
The solution was to design cities and
their traffic flow to accommodate the
vehicles and their users. Professor
Buchanan, however, suggested an elec-
tronic counter which would levy
charges on motorists in direct propor-
tion to the congestion in the areas into
which they entered. “Each private
car would have an identity plate which,
when the car crossed the counter, would
register with a central electronic brain”.
The brain would calculate how much
traffic was already in the area ahead
and indicate to the motorist how much
he would be charged for adding to the
congestion. On a light day the charge
might be 2s. 6d. On a heavy day it
might be 10s. Rather than redesign
cities to fit the motor car, Professor
Buchanan appealed to build cities to
fit men. “The social purpose of the
future might be to take hold of cities
in a creative and positive way, despite
political difficulties, and mould them
to our own convenience and delight”.
The car was frustrating the purpose of
cities. To Mr Marsh this was sheer
heresy.
TASMANIA
Mendicants
The end of sovereignty
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
little-publicised Commonwealth
"*■ Grants Commission controls a vital
sector of the expenditure of two Aus-
tralian States the so-called “claim-
ants”, Western Australia and Tasmania.
The role of the Commission has not in
the past obviously threatened the sover-
eign rights of States but some politicians
in Hobart see the latest sitting of the
Commission as indicating a trend to
interference with the Government’s
policy.
Commission chairman P. D. Phillips,
QC, warned Tasmanian Premier Mr
Reece that the Commission would make
a detailed -survey of the cost of agri-
cultural extension services throughout the
State.
After argument Mr Phillips said
the Commission could not perform its
statutory duties without investigating
government policies. For instance, WA
was “penalised” in its grant because it
did not permit poker machines and,
therefore, could not raise tax money
from them as the “standard” State of
NSW did. “Personally I disapprove of
legalised poker machines and I approve
the WA policy, but I would not be justi-
fied in abstaining from ‘penalising’ WA
for this ‘short fall’ in its revenue. Hav-
ing worked out the result as fairly as
possible, the claimant state government
must then be free to adjust itself to the
financial situation as it thinks best.”


7.
m
t;
\s
m-
m -w *
wm 1
7/
\ ; CV
/
COME AND
ENJOY THE
“MATSON
DIFFERENCE”
in the fun and
friendship of a
Pacific Adventure
yj S.S. Mariposa S.S. Monterey
Si
ban Francisco
Honolulu
A T
J*
Auk
•V .
a x *
Pago Pago
A oinnca
Niuafo’
/ 1 Bora Bora
Sydney Rarotonga T ahiti
- CV Auckland
Come aboard S.S. MARIPOSA or MONTEREY. As you
cruise the Pacific between Australia and the U.S.A.,
discover a new world of friends and places that
only Matson can give you.
Feel the difference in princely comforts and magnificent
service, as you meet New Zealand and American travellers.
Enjoy their friendships through sun-filled days and
starlit nights. Sip cocktails together in the setting sun . . .
dine together in gourmet splendour. Live in the
Grand Manner that only Matson offers you.
See the difference in the matchless beauty of Matson’s
ports. Noumea, Suva, Niuafo’ou (Tin Can Island), Pago
Pago, Honolulu and San Francisco, with time to spare as you
explore them all.
Appreciate the full Matson difference as you return in
the Grand Manner through Los Angeles, Bora Bora, Tahiti,
Rarotonga and Auckland.
Why not make 1964 your year to discover new friends
and enjoy this incomparable experience. No other way of
travel to the U.S.A. equals the Grand Manner of
Matson. We sail every three weeks.
There’s so much more to know
your Travel Agent.
let us tell you, or ask
50 Young St., Sydney. Phone 27 4272 * 454 Collins St., Melbourne. Phone 67 7237
8777A/105


OUT AND ABOUT
“Recognisably One of
The Great Streets”
But what makes Collins Street great?
By BATMAN
You must understand right from the
start that, as a Melburnian, I am
extremely sensitive about Collins
Street. I turn sulky at even the slightest
criticism.
James Morris, that peripatetic writer
for “The Britain’s Guardian,” said:
“Collins Street is not the greatest
thoroughfare in the Southern Hemis-
phere—even an Australian might con-
cede that honor to the superb Avenida
9 de Julio in Buenos Aires. But it is
recognisably one of the great streets . , .”
“Recognisably one of the great” ones?
He just got away with that line. Visitors
repeatedly have told us that it is the
greatest street in the world and so far
as I know letters to our newspapers have
never contradicted the proposition.
Collins Street is sacred. It is almost
as sacred as the RSL and the DLP.
Several years back the PMG did some
trenching along the footpath, digging
too close to our lovely trees. Eight of
the trees withered and started to die.
There was a holocaust and I remember
a magnificent quote from one of the
city councillors: “THIS IS MURDER.”
Countless tree experts were called in
to take the blood pressure and pulse of
the ailing trees. Nervously we read the
daily arboreal bulletins.
But can you imagine how the PMG
suffered? The digging had to go on,
tunnelling under the controversial roots,
which were exposed like tattered nerves.
And they had to do this while tree
experts, newspaper photographers,
councillors, protection societies and such
looked on, waiting for them to perpetrate
even the smallest act of murder.
We fought, too, over the lighting and
flagstones. The City Council decided that
the street was dingily lit, so it decided
to replace the nice, old Victorian lamps
with long, lean, streamlined affairs. They
looked like parking meters that had been
eating their corn flakes. We couldn’t
stop the parking-meter-like lamps but
we managed to retain some of the old
variety for their ornamental value.
The flagstones were always part of
the glory of the street. They came out
as ballast in the holds of windjammers
more than 80 years ago. Now they are
worn thin and are breaking up, so they
can be the very devil to walk on. Stiletto
heels slip down between the cracks, and,
with a little luck, sometimes one comes
across a struggling blonde, her heel
caught, trapped like an injured faun.
The flagstones are far too costly to
replace so now there are broad stretches
of footpath bitumen. On this surface no
longer do the little fauns become
trapped. Instead, on a hot day, they have
the pure satisfaction of their expensive
spikes sinking right up to the scabbards.
But what, you are asking, makes
Collins Street great? That is a question
I have been dodging for years. It is not
a good street for culture. Its architecture
is alternately homely, comfortable,
glassy and pompous, but never great.
It's not a good street for fun, it's not
bad for eating, it’s almost impossible for
sinning, and it’s utterly marvellous for
making money. Indeed, more money is
made in Collins Street than anywhere
else in the country.
Actually Collins Street is all Mel-
bourne. It is symbolic of the majestic,
homely security of the place. It would
be difficult to imagine anyone being held
up, raped, assaulted or even insulted here
and certainly no one would ever set fire
to themselves with petrol.
It does have charm, real charm. I love
it in the mid-afternoon when the sun is
making pretty patterns through the trees.
One can take a seat by the edge of the
footpath. These footpaths are the
broadest in the country, so broad that
a man can really appraise the pretty
girls that come walking down from the
Government offices.
It was in the 'fifties that the Oriental
Hotel had the marvellous courage to put
tables, chairs and umbrellas out on the
footpath and many a coffee shop
followed their lead. This gave the street
character and a marvellous new supply
of pictures for the travel brochures.
Alas, though, they have always been
rather more pretty than practical. It is
difficult to find the day when the weather
is precisely right for taking coffee outside
in Collins Street. We are still one of the
world’s most favored resorts for flies
and, besides the very time when side-
walk cafes are most enjoyable, the late
evening, they are not available in Collins
Street. And anyway, who would want to
drink coffee or tea at 7.30 p.m.? We have
always felt that there is something
hideously immoral about liquor con-
sumed out in the street and particularly
after 6 p.m.
Of course, Collins Street has had its
periods. It was Melbourne’s first street
and it was named after David Collins who
founded the Sorrento Settlement in 1803.
After Melbourne’s first sales, the stumps
were removed and the old street was
made level in a sort of a way, a dust


SELECTIVE VIEWING AND LISTENING
Our man with Sukarno In Djakarta, President Sukarno
addresses a rally; in Manila, he makes a statement; in West Irian, he meets local leaders. In
each of these places he has made news. And wherever he goes, an ABC newsman is there . . .
as surely as his shadow. This degree of application is typical of ABC newsgathering. From
offices in Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Hong Kong and Djakarta, an elaborate net is laid across
all possible Asian news-centres. In Laos and Vietnam, the ABC reported from the heart of
the civil wars; from Malaysia, along the mountainous borders of Borneo or from Singapore’s
teeming streets, ABC reporters on the spot brought you details of the new nation’s birth.
From London and New York the ABC nets the rest of the world similarly (in close association
with Reuters and UPI). And partnership in the British Commonwealth International News-
film Agency assures immediate availability of the world’s important newsfilm. At home, 200
ABC reporters and cameramen are supported by hundreds of local correspondents, so that the
ABC is always where news breaks. Logical then that the informed Australian seeks his news
from the ABC. Selective viewing and listening need not apply only to entertainment. You’ll
find you get to the heart of the news
through the ABC.
/BC
THE NATIONAL TELEVISION AND RADIO SERVICE
IplilpSi
■ ■ ■ •• ■ ' ■ •
: ■■■&
A8C3.(85)


bowl in summer and a quagmire in
winter.
It became a good residential street and
by the turn of the century the doctors
completely dominated the Eastern end.
It was only after the Second World War
that the newspapers began to talk about
the Paris End. This always seemed a
somewhat dubious phrase. After all, do
the French at any time talk about the
Melbourne end of the Champs Elysees?
One could imagine this Melbourne end.
There would be seats and tables with
striped umbrellas, but all sale of liquor
would be banned outside. Instead of
pernod these Melbourne-inspired French-
men would sip cups of tea and eat
tomato sandwiches.
The most shattering post-war period
was from November, 1958, to 1960.
Curiously enough, it never caused any
protests like the injuries done to the trees
and flagstones, but during that period
we choked on the dust caused by Whelan
the Wrecker. Collins Street looked like
a boy who was losing his front teeth.
Down came the Occidental Hotel,
which had been there for nigh on 110
years, to be replaced by the far less
useful Reserve Bank building. Dame
Nellie Melba once stayed at the Occiden-
tal and we used to think of her while
we ate the counter lunch. The magnifi-
cent timber bar was sold to Stanley
Kramer for use as a set in “On the
Beach.”
So next time you see that film, as you
will many times on television four or
five years from now, look at Ava
Gardner leaning against that bar and
remembering the Occidental with its
counter lunch menu of curry and rice
and chicken bits.
Shedding tears
TMTaybe the Occidental wasn’t a great
architectural loss, but we shed tears
over the destruction of Melbourne Man-
sions and Jonas’ fruit shop. These went
to provide space for the great Conzinc
Riotinto building. In the good days it
was the thing for a gentleman to have
his lucrative property in the Western
District and his city apartment in Mel-
bourne Mansions, and he balanced his
time fairly evenly between the two. And
it was a splendid building, made of the
best materials. Walter Butler had the
wrought iron specially made in England.
It had a design of interwoven gum leaves.
The destruction of the fruit shop of
Mr Jonas was even worse. He sold fruit,
avocados, peaches, as if they were
orchids. It was the one place in Mel-
bourne where one could buy beautiful
Bowen mangoes.
Then at the corner of Elizabeth
Street, Whelans wrecked the Colonial
Mutual building, the most magnificent
building ever to be wrecked in this
country. It was started in 1893 and the
architect was an American, Edward
H. Raht. It was made of granite blocks
five to 14 tons in weight. Marble, you
have never seen such marble. The
counters were of Belgian rouge and black
marble, the passages were marble, the
stairs were Italian marble, and there was
a wonderful marble archway that went
into a Roman Catholic church. The lifts,
too, were exquisite, and obviously de-
signed by Ronald Searle.
Well, pulling down that building was
about as easy as dismantling the
pyramids. The Whelan family will find
it much easier to wreck the new 17-
storey CML building.
The construction, though, brought a
rather curious repeat of history. When
the old building was going up, a steam
crane, in a fit of agony at lifting those
14-ton blocks, exploded and killed three
workmen. When the new building was
going up in 1961 a crane again collapsed.
Once more three workmen were killed.
Maybe now is the time for a quick
walk down Collins Street. Spanning it
across the end in Spring Street, is the
old Treasury building, easily the loveliest
in Melbourne. Its Italianate style has
a most satisfying symmetry, but best of
all I like the lamps. Each has three great
globes hanging from the old iron
standards like pawnbroker’s balls.
The top end is the most walkable.
There are coffee shops, little antique
shops, impossibly expensive little
millinery shops, and, of course, the toy
shops of the Hearn brothers. Here it is
fun to push your nose against the plate
glass, look at models of the Cutty Sark,
P39s, working models of perfectly de-
tailed sports cars, and you wish like hell
that such toys had been available when
you were 12 years old.
The massive Melbourne Club, which
could only be described as tres formid-
able, is on the right. Only a small
National Trust plaque reveals that this
is the Melbourne Club. There is no
proper sign, but no non-member would
ever enter its vast portals by mistake.
The building is so grimly imposing that
something suggests that this is hot a
place for mere human beings.
Out the back the club has a walled
garden, which for more than a century
has defied predatory real estate men. It’s
quite the most expensive piece of garden
in Australia.
Then, as one walks, it is rewarding
to inspect the myriads of brass plates.
There are not as many as there used
to be and a correspondent to the “Age”
tells us that in the old days they used
to be as big as dinner trays, but they
are still good. One sees Mr R. P. Free-
man, ear, nose and throat; Dr R. Munro,
diseases of the eye; J. McCullum Howell,
chiropodist; Miss Lazarus, physiotherapy;
Mr Hugh Tighe, obstetrician and gynae-
cologist. Name your disease, we can fix
it in Collins Street.
Shirts strung up
11/’e move over to Exhibition Street.
The Athenaeum Club is on the left
and on the right are little places with
balconies. Even in 1964 people reside
in Collins Street. You don’t believe it?
I have seen shirts, underpants, bras, etc.,
on a string up in those balconies in full
view of Athenaeum members.
Oggs’ pharmacy is next, Melbourne’s
most famous chemist shop. It has been
there for 107 years. Alas, it is not what
it used to be. They have jazzed up the
front. Instead of a massive gilded speci-
men jar in the window, there are Relax-
a-tab tablets and because of a wicked
Council ruling, no longer is there the
glorious Oggs awning. Made of wrought
iron it was part of the glory of the street.
Now, rather awkwardly, it shelters the
portico of University House, the pro-
fessors’ club at’ Melbourne University.
On the corners of Russell Street we
find the solid respectability of Scots and
Congregational churches. Dame Nellie’s
funeral left from here. According to the
newspapers it was such a beauty that
one undertaker could not cope with it
alone. He had to call in undertakers
from all over Melbourne.
Next we come to George’s where the
very nice women of Melbourne have
shopped these past 84 years without any
of the vulgarity of fire sales. There’s the
Athenaeum, a Melbourne institution
which started as the Mechanics Institute
and School of Arts in 1839, now a
picture theatre, library and art gallery.
The Athenaeum used to be the centre
of everything in Melbourne. When Clem
Hill, Warwick Armstrong, Victor


Ill] I
WH£N YOU USE POWER, GOODYEAR MAKES WHAT YOU NEED
***? ' I
z i
w*t*j Sf'j
I
mm
m
:-V,V
iV
"Tj
mm : w
I t i TMj
sr
m
IS J 0
makes light
of heavy loads
When you choose industrial rubber products durability
is of prime importance. Illustrated are seven striking
examples of the lasting qualities of Goodyear products.
But that is only part of the story. The
choice of a Goodyear product may
begin with many other aspects of its
use: extreme temperature conditions;
the need to withstand prolonged ex-
posure to weather; an unusual use
calling for a special design.
Goodyear meets such demands with
unrivalled world-wide experience in
industrial rubber. It comes to you
through the G.T.M. (Goodyear Tech-
nical Man). He is trained to give you
immediate, expert advice on any pro-
blem, and he is as near as your tele-
phone. When you need the answer to
a question about rubber, call him, or
write to the Goodyear branch in your
State.
aft
Specified
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS
More industry relies on Goodyear Industrial
Products than on any other kind
GOODYEAR
§fc.
w
This Goodyear V-belt delivers up to
100 horsepower, maintaining the
water supply of a W.A. town—
frequently under heatwave condi-
tions. It’s a job calling for the
utmost reliability—the sort of job
Goodyear is chosen for.
m
Hoisting a ton of rock every minute
is a tough job, but it’s a job handled
with ease by a Goodyear Bucket
Elevator belt at this Queensland
crushing plant.
m
Goodyear air hose solved the prob-
lem for one of. Australia’s largest
cement producers who wanted a hose
that could stand rugged handling
and still deliver 100% performance.
Impact after impact but never a
sign of loading dock damage. Good-
year rubber fendering protects
vehicles, too, in this 200 feet loading
dock.
m
in
'A*
Frequent replacement of rope mat
fenders was a costly problem until
this harbour tug was fitted with
tough, abrasion-resistant, resilient
Goodyear rubber fenders.
,
S. *<- 4
« *
Australia’s greatest sugar lift at
Mackay, Queensland, is handled bv
Goodyear conveyor belts. They stand
up to the assault of 650 tons an
hour.
C264D


Trumper and the rest withdrew from
the 1912 touring side they held their
indignation meeting here. The
Athenaeum Hall was always a jolly good
place for indignation meetings.
The Town Hall is next; not a great
town hall by any means. Over the past
year workmen cleaned up the stonework
until now it is a beautiful virginal white.
One has to report that the virgin already
is being outraged by another onslaught
of pigeons.
Across Swanston Street the character
changes. The trees are fewer and less
leafy. It is very hard to luxuriate when
surrounded by so many banks and there
is bank after bank after bank. The only
one I really like is the E,S&A Bank on
the corner of Queen Street. This is
delightful. It is like the baronial hall of
a rather flamboyant Duke. There are
shields on the ceiling, gilded columns,
gilt all over the place. All it lacks is a
large fireplace with venison turning on
a spit. In fact you wouldn’t be surprised,
if when you handed in your cheque, the
teller passed back a bumper of burgundy.
We could talk of the Australia Hotel,
the music houses and record bars, the
Block where it used to be so essential
for the ladies of quality to promenade,
but we must push on. As we go up the
hill we are now deep into the real heart
of Collins Street, the money area.
On the dull facade of 360 Collins
Street, there are such sparkling names
as Broken Hill South, Electrolytic Re-
finery and Smelting, Kalgoorlie South
Gold Mines, Central Victoria Dredging
Co. and the monarch of all in these parts,
lan Potter & Co.
The vast National Mutual Centre is
rising on the site of the old Western
Market and we come to the old Rialto
building. This is the home of the Depart-
ment of Shipping & Transport, a left-
over that hasn’t migrated to Canberra.
This is an unbelievable building, with
gallery rising above gallery like an
American gaol. Once upon a time it
was a lush apartment building and Dame
Nellie used to live here. Please excuse
me for continually mentioning this lady,
but she had a lot to do with Collins
Street. Her old stage, where she used
to practise, is still on the fourth floor.
There are hooks up aloft, once used
to lower the toilet cans down to the
street, and the building still has the
original ancient hydraulic lifts. On a hot
day, when everybody is turning on the
taps, they barely move at all. A couple
of doors down there is a building with
another of these hydraulic lifts. It has
a red plush seat more suited to a boudoir
and it moves so slowly one could imagine
almost anything happening between the
third and the fourth floor.
The Federal Hotel, another fantastic
piece of Victoriana, is on the corner of
King Street. Marcus Clarke once de-
scribed it as being like a castle built for
a Norman earl, by an architect who had
been dreaming of Dor’s illustrations to
Balzac. Over the doors are the letters
RESTEZ ICI and SOYEZ LE BIEN
VENU, plus two massive females elbow
to elbow, one of whom has a large breast
exposed. Around these girls are a couple
of cherubs. It's not a good-looking
situation and a timid fellow wonders
whether he should go in.
After this what is there to Collins
Street? There are shipping offices, firms
that sell meat slicers, milking machines;
stock and station agents, wool brokers,
well-borers, sandwich bars, and finally
the dull heap of Spencer Street Station.
To get back to our friend James
Morris, who put it rather beautifully:
“Fifth Avenue leads you to the Bronx,
the Nevsky Prospect, Leningrad, ends
at the golden stupa of the Russian
Admiralty, but not many streets can
usher you so generously back to the
thumbprints of the primitives.”
Homer as Best-Seller
“Modern slang is distracting ”
By RICHARD HALL
One of the biggest writers of best
sellers in the English-speaking
world has slipped quietly into
Australia for a holiday to mark his final
retirement after 52 years of publishing
and writing. He is Dr Emil Rieu, until
a few weeks ago editor of the Penguin
Classics, which he came out of his first
retirement to start.
Dr Rieu, now 77, has the grave cour-
tesy and manners of the late Victorian
and Edwardian ages in which he grew
up, combined with something of a
gentle sense of humor. Looking back to
the origins of Penguin Classics, now 130
titles in 20 different languages, he likes
to recall that it all began because his
wife was bored.
In 1937 he gave up his job as mana-
ging director of the publishing firm of
Methuen and settled down to live out his
retirement catching up with the Greek
and Latin works he had neglected since
school and Oxford. So he sat down to
start with the Odyssey. After some nights
he found it “absolutely marvellous” but
his wife was a little less happy and indeed
complained, he recalls, “It's not much fun
sitting here while you read.” So Dr Rieu
translated aloud as he went along.
About eight years and several years in
the Home Guard later he had a trans-
lation of the Odyssey which he submitted
to an old friend Alan Lane (how Sir
Alan), of Penguin.
Lane did not decide in favor of it at
first but submitted the manuscript to a
Professor. Fortified by an enthusiastic
report they went ahead and the first
Penguin Classic came out in January,
1946, at the cost of Is. The Odyssey in
Dr Rieu’s version has sold about
1,500,000 copies, a record of which
even Morris West might feel envious.
Dr Rieu's other Homer, “The Iliad,”
sold “only,” as he says, 750,000 copies.
“It is”, says Dr Rieu, “more of a tragedy
whereas you might call the Odyssey the
first romantic novel.” Now 18 years
later Dr Rieu could not hazard a guess
how many million Penguin Classics have
been sold.
The range offered by his editorship is
unique for a paperback publisher in the
English-speaking world and would pro-
bably be challenged only by the poly-
math printing presses of Moscow.
Sitting in a huge armchair looking
out through a picture window to the
country around Templestowe, on the
north-eastern outskirts of Melbourne,
where he is spending the first few months
of his retirement, Dr Rieu recalled the
years of his editorship in a Virtual roll-
call of the great authors of the world.
Penguin Classics’ catalogue contains
names like Plato, Herodotus, through to
Caesar, Arrian, Lucian. From the Medi-
eval world came authors like Dante,
Marco Polo, the Venerable Bede and, of
course, Chaucer (“One of our greatest
sellers”). Then there were Moliere, Des-
cartes, through to Goethe to Balzac, De
Maupassant and Dostoievsky.
In time they range from Epic of Gil-
gamesh, which vies with the Book of
Genesis for the title of the oldest epic in
the world, to 1900. “After that it is diffi-
cult to determine just what a classic is,”
Dr Rieu said. “No, I wasn't working on
the Penguin Modern Classics. I didn’t
want to.”
Dr Rieu looks back to Gilgamesh. the
tale from Mesopotamia and the second
millennium before Christ, with affection.
“I fell in love with that book,” he said.
“None of it was available to the modern
reader, only pieces in scholarly works.
It was one of the best things we did.”
Asked whether an edition of aboriginal
legends, arguably almost the contempo-
raries of Gilgamesh, had ever been con-
sidered Dr Rieu found himself surprised
to answer no.
At 77 and retired the old publisher
became interested in the idea. “You must
give me some names of men who have
done this work and I’ll read them.”
Penguin Classics have always had a
policy of commissioning new translations.


One popular publishing dodge with clas-
sical works is to take a translation on
which copyright has expired and reprint
it at considerable saving to the publisher.
On that Dr Rieu comes close to mild
anger. “It was a conscious policy decision
of ours to get fresh translators and fresh
translations and to pay at the rate of
original work,” he said.
The introductions to the Penguin
Classics have always been a feature
striving to fall between the extremes of
scholarly footnoting and popular appeal
not always, but mostly, successfully.
This, too, was one of Dr Rieu’s firm pre-
cepts. “I like to think that they spent as
much time on the introduction as the
translation.”
On the specific problems of translations
Dr Rieu said that no one could insist on
literal translations for most of the work.
“That would be hopeless.” The aim was
always for “elegant and contemporary
English.'’ But told of the example of one
translator who had slipped “Alcatraz”
into one of the Satires of Juvenal as a
synonym for a Roman prison, Dr Rieu
became annoyed.
“That sort of thing is absolutely wrong.
It withdrawn the reader's attention from
the text. Modern slang is distracting.
There's no need to do that at all.”
For the future of Penguin Classics Dr
Rieu gracefully indicates that his retire-
ment has left him out of it. Those pen-
ding that he had some say in—an edition
of the Vinland sagas, the Icelandic tales
of the voyages of the Viking discoverers
of America. Dr Rieu adds that the intro-
duction of this edition, the only one
readily available in English, is something
of a masterpiece of scholarship. One
gets the impression that he feels it will
settle the hoary old dispute as to whether
the Vikings ever got to Maine.
But while he is in retirement Dr Rieu
hopes to take up another role he has
played in his long life, that of a poet.
With something of irony he refers to his
light verse as “my most serious work.”
His latest book of verse, “The Flattered
Flying Fish”, was published by his old
firm of Methuen in hard covers, only 15
months ago.
As the interview came to an end Dr
Rieu commented on the Englishness of
Templestowe where the orchards run
over the Dandenongs. “It’s not the out-
back is it?” he asked. Then he turned to
education on Australian topics.
“Tell me. Who is this man Santy-
Maria”, he asked, rhyming it with Black
Maria. Then after I gave a short ex-
planation, he said, “That reminds me of
a story about De Gaulle. You see this
psychiatrist arrived at St Peter’s Gates
and St Peter asked him his occupation
and when he answered St Peter said,
‘That's very good. We need one of you.’
And the psychiatrist said, ‘Why, who’s
ill?’ So St Peter answered, ‘Well, I don’t
like to say it, but it’s the Almighty’.
The psychiatrist said, ‘That’s bad. What’s
up with him?’ And St Peter answered,
‘Well he’s got delusions of grandeur. He
thinks he’s De Gaulle’. Oh, your cab’s
here. Good-bye, Mr Hall. My wife
and I are going for a drive to the sea-
side”.
The Pros at Innisfail
Enter Hoad, Laver, Cooper and Anderson, carrying golf sticks
By LARRY FOLEY
u 7e usually play golf”, explained
ww Rocket. “It loosens you up.”
Lew shrugged: “Nothing else
to do”.
From the Exchange Hotel in Innisfail
the pros drove to Bill Lee Long’s Sports
Store. While somebody hustled up two
sets of sticks, one right-handed, one left-
handed, the four lounged around, idly
picking up, swinging, hefting, trying out
various items.
Leaving the store, Mai’s eye caught
the poster in the window: “Rod Laver
versus Lew Hoad . . . Winner of Grand
Slam . . .”
“Gee”, said Mai, loudly, “you see
some crap, don't you?”
“Heard you”, said Rocket.
The fairways were lush and green,
squelchy in places.
Lew shared the right-handed clubs
with Rocket, who is a natural left-
hander.
Ash and Mai, both right-handers, took
the left-handed set of golf-clubs. It was
no gag.
Mai said: “In the 1956 Davis Cup
squad there were three left-handers:
Laver, Rose and Fraser and three
right-handers: Cooper, Emerson and
me. Harry organised some golf for us,
and sets of clubs, and we all picked up
the wrong ones. The Hop thought we
were having him on.
“But Rocket, Rose and Fraser play
golf right-handed. Emmo, Coop and I
play golf left-handed; so does Rosewall.
It seems to affect only Australian tennis
players”.
Lew topped his drive. Fifty yards.
He let out a groan. “I’m so blanking
stiff it's unbelievable”.
Rocket swung. He let out a groan.
“Swinging like a rusty gate”.
An airliner roared overhead. “Here
comes your girlfriend, Rocket”, said
Ash.
“He’s the only one’s not married”,
said Mai. “Lew’s got two girls and a
boy, Ash’s got two girls, and I’ve got a
boy and a girl”.
Lew said: “Gee, it's a bit hot too, isn’t
it?”
He hit an iron.
“The set of wrists on him”, said Mai.
“If only he learned to use them in a
golf shot . .
Lew topped a drive. Fifty yards.
Into a hole.
Mai hit a wood. “Beauty”, said
Rocket. “You can put your name and
address on that one”.
Lew chipped to within five feet from
60 yards, then holed the putt.
Mai lofted an iron shot. “Goddamn,
Country”, said Rocket, “That’s a high
one. That’s an angel-raper”.
“Trabe nicknamed Mai ‘Country’,”
said Lew. “Because Mai’s a country
boy from a little place called Theodore”.
Lew’s iron shot ran 50 yards. “Oh,
blank it, goddamn it” he burst out, and
stood looking at the ground at his feet
for several seconds, then shuffled off,
muttering. Ash's 20-foot putt stopped
two feet short. Everyone looked for
Lew’s ball, which was in water.
At the third green, Lew drank from
a tap, then put his head under.
He holed out from 12 feet. “Oh
Lewis!” cried Coop.
Lew yelled: “A little humdinger!
Three one-putt greens, and I’m three
over par”.
Mai hit a screaming drive. “Jeez,
Country”, said Lew, “that’s a country
mile!”
Ash landed in the rough.
“I’m gonna get it off the tee for once”,
said Lew, addressing the ball. He topped
it. Fifty yards.
They approached the fifth green. “All
reasonably close to the green, aren't
we?” said Rocket.
Mai's chip lipped the hole. “If it’d
been a clean hole it would’ve gone in”,
he said.
Rocket holed a chip from off the
green.
They reached the sixth tee. Lew
drove. “I'm getting better”, he said.
“That one was at least three or four feet
in the air”.
“Shall I let a bit of stick out, gentle-
men? asked Mai.
There was a mighty thud as the heavy
reddish-colored wooden clubhead flew
off in mid-swing, struck the ground at
Mai’s feet and bounced 20 yards. “Oh,
Strawberry”, cried Mai. “What have
you done to me?”
The game began to disintegrate. They
made the ninth hole the last.


THE ADVANTAGES OF ALUMINIUM No. 1
ALUMINIUM IS STRENGTH
mm
s?:«WsSS:
iill
:•■*!
■■■:■■:
mm
wmm
Wmm yMMf , ; - :: *
pw v < ' ' ,y s ,' y>, r , ~j. . :
■ -: -■:. ■ . . : ;
m
I-:::;
m
pMyX^y-'
mwmmmmm
fgSgiS
;M*
A0A33.70
Touchdown and lightweight aluminium forgings support 115 tons of Qantas V-Jet!
Whenever a metal is required to be both strong
and light (as in the wheels and undercarriage
of the jet) aluminium is ideal. Certain alloys
of aluminium are considerably stronger than
structural grade steel while weighing only
one third as much!
Large bridges, powerful cranes, electrical
transmission towers and oil drilling rigs can
all be made from strong, light aluminium.
Aluminium nails drive into tough woods
and high explosive shells can be warded off
with aluminium armour plating. Aluminium’s
combination of unusual strength and light
weight has proved indispensable in transport,
building, electrical, packaging and other in-
dustries. And now a new company, Alcoa of
Australia (with its 49% Australian share-
holding) mines, manufactures and markets
aluminium in an enterprise that spans our
nation.
Aluminium conducts heat and electricity, and
reflects heat and light. It is non-magnetic,
non-toxic and impact absorbing. It is less
costly than other non-ferrous metals, and is
available in every form known to the metal
working industry. Aluminium has a wider range
of finishes than any other metal, providing
virtually any colour or texture. Aluminium is
truly the metal of the Twentieth Century.
ALUMINIUM IS PROGRESS . . . ALUMINIUM IS
ALCOA OF AUSTRALIA PROPRIETARY LIMITED
Headquarters and Sales Office: 155 Queen Street, Melbourne, 67 6585.
ALCDA
AUSTRALIA


FORUM
Eichmann in Jerusalem
“There hut for the grace of God ...?"
By FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
The dead cannot argue and they have
no will. A sense of fairness, some
kind of piety, and perhaps a resi-
dual belief in spirits make us recoil
when the living try to manipulate the
dead for their own worldly purposes. The
sight of politicians attempting to swell
their “numbers” with dead souls is not
a pretty one. For some reason this
revolting custom has grown since the
war, particularly among Jewish politicians
both in and outside Israel. Nowadays,
in almost any Jewish faction fight—be
it about the Suez Canal, the proper
allocation of welfare funds, or the pro-
priety of employing Jewish baby-sitters
on the Sabbath—somebody will, sooner
or later, invoke “the holocaust” and “our
martyrs” to score a point and to humiliate
or silence his opponent.
The fact that this type of blasphemy
is particularly painful to the survivors
of Hitler’s genocide and to the close
relatives of the dead does not seem to
worry the perpetrators, usually American,
British, Australian or Israeli Jews with
little or no personal experience of what
they are talking about. The very term
“holocaust” is now being used as an
emptied-out verbal symbol, a part of
Zionist and Israeli “officialese”, and
uttered post-prandially by after-dinner
speakers, politicians and bureaucrats in
pretty much the same tone of voice as
“football” or “Mount Scopus College”.
It is not really surprising and it is
even to some extent defensible that the
State of Israel should attempt to derive
tangible material benefits from the cluster
of attitudes and guilt-feelings which
Hitler’s genocide has generated among
Jews and gentiles alike, and that Israel's
spokesmen and ideologues should be
busily engaged “adapting” history and
creating uplifting simple morality tales
and myths suitable for school-books and
at variance with the sordid, grey and
degrading mess which was the reality of
the Final Solution. A Zionist “realist”
might argue, that, after all, history is
about the dead, and the State of Israel
is the hope of the living, and there is,
therefore, no good reason why the dead
should not be conscripted, along with
the women, to do a chore for the national
renaissance.
Yet among the living there are a few
who maintain the final heritage of the
Hebrew prophets that “the truth shall
make you free”. Devotion to truth in
action almost at any price and incisive
self-criticism (sometimes degenerating
into self-hatred) are among the noblest
parts of the Jewish intellectual tradition,
and they stand in sharp contrast to the
populist-babbitish cliches of official
Zionist propaganda. And from time to
time the two must clash. For this, and for
some other reasons not at all connected
with Jewish politics, one should not be
really surprised at the flood of distortions
and character-assassination which greeted
an outstanding book about the Eichmann
trial written by one of the finest Jewish
intellects alive*. From the moment the
work made its first appearance (initially as
a series of articles in the “New Yorker”)
it has been quite apparent that powerful
and influential groups were incensed by
it, and that they were determined to
crush it.
The book is being discussed in Aus-
tralia yet most people who pass judg-
ment on it here have not yet read it and
they merely repeat and embellish some
of the misleading nonsense which has
been written about it in America. Rarely,
if ever, has it been so difficult to estimate
the content and style of a book from
the reviews written about it. To counter
the cruder kind of distortion it is, un-
fortunately, necessary to restate what
must be obvious even to the most super-
ficial kind of reader: Arendt supports
the capture and trial of Eichmann to
the hilt. She dismisses legalistic
squabbles about “violation of Argen-
tinian sovereignty” and related stuff as
irrelevant, and, unlike some other Jewish
liberals who pleaded for commutation of
Eichmann’s sentence, she comes down
squarely in favor of the gallows.
Her comments on the conduct of the
trial and on the demeanor of the judges
is favorable in the extreme, though she
does not gloss over the conceptual and
procedural difficulties and irregularities
which a fairly unique trial like this must
generate. Her analysis of the legal issues
is, perhaps, a bit too pedantic and tedious
yet she does accept the competence of
an Israeli court to sentence Eichmann
to death. The state prosecutor emerges
from her description as a simple-minded,
publicity-seeking ham who did not really
understand the nature of the Eichmann
problem, and who tried to turn a trial
for crimes against the whole corpus of
humanity into a parochial Jewish
revenge-festival. Yet the judges, parti-
cularly the great Judge Landau, countered
the prosecutor’s antics quite firmly, and,
what is more, they resisted successfully
Ben Gurion’s attempts to use the trial
as a platform for transacting Israel’s
quarrels with the Arabs.
Why was it then that her book stirred
up a hornet’s nest? What were the
exposed nerves which she touched? It
seems that she offended two different yet
overlapping interests: those of the official
Zionist establishment in Israel and in
the USA, and the interests of the more
fatuous section of the liberal establish-
ment. The Zionists were offended by
the icy and cliche-free objectivity of
her style, by the remorseless frankness
with which she discussed the failings of
the Jewish leadership in Europe, and by
some skeletons released from cupboards
in the course of her narrative, such as a
description of Israel’s semi-fascist marri-
"Hannah Arendt. Eichmann in Jerusalem. A
report on the banality of evil. Faber and Faber.


__
\
t
r-
m
*
|g|
a
■?v-..
‘a
1
r*
r*jr
JF
:\,-
•*> ..y
■ sj -
m
"m
a.
::
Hi
si
masi
|§fs*||
1 • ..v".
r
. -r •<•'., v .^>
P
■
t>. I; - ": > s«■<*■
ZA.
vm&mtmsm.
mM
ts§*
■
m
::
a
- : :--
mk
-
■ . a®.
r3s3s2cx4-
Build
Australia
Buy
Australian
f AUSTRALIAN
OMPOL
OWNED i
Vigorously Australian, Ampol is continuously pouring its
Australian-earned profits into new and vital projects for the
development and independence of Australia.
Ampol was a co-sponsor of the recently completed new Lubri-
cating Oil Refinery at Kurnell, the first of its kind in Australia,
as modern as any in the world, and capable of processing 94,500
gallons of specialised lube oils a day.
Currently, Ampol is investing in its greatest Australian devel-
opmental project to date —the £21,000,000 refinery at Lvtton,
Brisbane.
And, this year, Ampol entered its 17th year in the costly, but
vital, search for oil!
OWNED AND CONTROLLED BY AUSTRALIANS FOR AUSTRALIANS


If
N
THE
COONAWARRA ESTATE
The vineyard and the old stone
cellars are in the care of dedicated
men who have retained many of
the traditional hand-methods in
carefully producing Australia’s
finest table wines.
Each bottle is marked with its
vintage year and carries a back
label clearly showing where the
Estate is located.
COONAWARRA ESTATE* CLARET is
made from the original Shiraz
(Hermitage) vineyard.
COONAWARRA ESTATE CABERNET
is vintaged from 70 acres of the
rare Cabernet Sauvignon.
COONAWARRA ESTATE RIESLING
comes from a new vineyard of
Rhine Riesling.
*“Estate" (as the word “Chateau" in France ) is used to
distinguish the wine as being the genuine product of the
winegrowers' own vineyard.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors: S. WYNN & CO.PTY.LTD.
age laws. Yet it would be a mistake to
assume that Arendt’s book is merely an
exercise in self-criticism. We read about
Father Tiso, an unexcommunicated
priest and Quisling Premier of Slovakia
who delivered converted Jews, including
baptized babies, to Eichmann. (Pope
Pius XII interceded on his behalf after
the war to save him from execution.)
We also read about Catholic Italy, where
resistance fighters, fascists and the clergy
co-operated in keeping the Jews out of
Eichmann’s clutches. Ruritarian Bulgaria
and liberal-progressive Denmark alike
saved their Jews. The ex-Socialist Radical
and free-thinker Laval offered 4000 Jew-
ish children under 16, separated from
their parents, for Auschwitz. (Some be-
tween two and four years of age did not
survive the transport to the gas-chambers
and their corpses were returned from
Auschwitz in empty carriages presumably
so as not to interfere with the perfect
auditing system of the concentration
camp administration. The corpses were
found by Belgian railwaymen.) The
Croat Ustashi leaders delivered their
Jews but saved their wives—who were
predominantly Jewish.
Arendt reminds us again and again
that mass-murderers are now in posi-
tions of great social respectability in
Western Germany and that the much-
vaunted German guilt-feelings are
psychological devices to avoid respon-
sible action, particularly against the
ridiculously low sentences passed by
German courts against SS murderers. It
is easy to “feel guilty” and to announce
it to all and sundry. It is somewhat more
difficult to endanger one’s career within
the Wirtschaftswuruler and to fight.
Yet the scandal which her book caused
in some liberal quarters is not due only
to her objectivity but it has to be sought
in her interpretation of events. Thus,
Arendt shows quite conclusively that
Eichmann was not a monster He was an
ordinary, very conventional, slightly
shoddy semi-intellectual in pursuit of a
job and in search of prestige, with
sentimental attachments to Franz
Josef and “gay Austria”, averse to
cruelty and emotionally not involved in
anti-semitism. Always “objective”, he
despised rabid emotive Jew baiters like
Streicher. When an Israeli guard gave
him a copy of “Lolita” he expressed
shock and dismay at the book. Now if
Eichmann was not a monster but an ordi-
nary chap, two conclusions follow: There
are no demons among men. but only
rather murky fallen creatures, mixed-up,
lazy and arrogant little fools, pretty much
the sinners as conceived by orthodox
Christianity. And if this is all that
Eichmann amounts to, and if evil, even
supreme evil is indeed in Arendt’s words
“banal”, then where Eichmann walks
there but for the grace of God are you
and I.
Arendt’s image of Eichmann contra-
dicts the two incompatible beliefs of
many contemporary liberals the Mani-
chean, transmitted by Freud, that civili-
sation is a thin crust covering irreducibly
demonic instinctual forces which, if re-
pressed too much, will erupt and turn
men into types like the Nazis; and the
gnostic derived from Marx and the en-
lightenment, that human beings are per-
fectible. If Adolf Eichmann, the man who
participated in a near-ultimate crime
the deliberate extermination of a part of
the human race —was a non-demonic
ordinary fellow then there are no
Princes of Darkness among men, yet it
is scarcely conceivable that ordinary fel-
lows could be perfected.
Arendt argues convincingly, though
her evidence is not conclusive, that the
Jewish Councils ( Judenrdte ) set up by
the Nazis were instrumental in accelera-
ting and expediting the extermination
programme. Since the Jewish leaders
presumably knew what they were doing,
some blame must attach to them. And
she concludes that the only correct policy
would have been total non-co-operation.
In the absence of possible armed resist-
ance this would have amounted to pas-
sive resistance. The thesis is in line with
Arendt’s more general proposition that
totalitarianism must be met by uncom-
promising defiance, since totalitarians
yield only to courage and determination.
Their favorite victims are the innocuous
and the weak. In an age of “peaceful co-
existence” and organized deals with moral
equivalents of the Nazis Arendt’s mes-
sage cannot be expected to cause much
enthusiasm.
The Verdict
TTannah Arendt concludes the book
by passing her own verdict on Eich-
mann: “You . . . said that your role in
the Final Solution was an accident and
that almost anybody could have taken
your place, so that potentially almost all
Germans are equally guilty. What you
meant to say was that where all, or al-
most all, are guilty, nobody is. This is
indeed a quite common conclusion, but
one we are not willing to grant you. And
if you don't understand our objection,
we would recommend to your attention
the story of Sodom and Gomorrha, the
neighboring cities in the Bible which
were destroyed by fire from Heaven be-
cause all the people in them had become
equally guilty. This, incidentally, has
nothing to do with the newfangled notion
of ‘collective guilt’ according to which
people supposedly are guilty of, or feel
guilty about, things done in their name
but not by them—things in which they
did not participate and from which they
did not profit. In other words, guilt and
innocence before the law are of an ob-
jective nature, and even if eighty million
Germans had done as you did, this would
not have been an excuse for you . . .
There is an abyss between the actuality of
what you did and the potentiality of
what others might have done. . . . Let us
assume, for the sake of argument, that it
was nothing more than misfortune that
made you a willing instrument in the
organisation of mass-murder; there still
remains the fact that you have carried
out, and, therefore, actively supported
a policy of mass-murder. For politics is


build a rugged 1-ton CHASSIS
Datsun 1 ton Pick-up Truck £895 tax paid
Datsun 1 ton Cab and Chassis £Bl9 tax paid
Datsun Vz ton Coupe Utility £899 tax paid
&
Datsun 8 cwt. Service Utility, £9BB tax paid
Datsun Panel Van £920 tax paid,
1/2 ton load capacity
Datsun Heavy-Duty Station Wagon £1023
tax paid. 1/2 ton capacity
Precision products of the Nissan Motor
Company, Japan.
It's the chassis of fully-welded steel box section that makes the DATSUN
a genuine load-carrying vehicle not a converted passenger car of
monoconstruction.
THIN Datsun stack on real
heavy-duty truck equipment
@ TRUCK transmission • TRUCK clutch
• TRUCK brakes • TRUCK steering box
® TRUCK suspension # TRUCK tyres
It's these heavy-duty components that make the DATSUN stand up under
heavy loads on rough roads for years and years of economical and profit-
able operation.
fill# ## D&tsun sells up to
£375 less than equivalent
commercial vehicles...
Add to the amazingly low purchase price, 30 m.p.g. petrol economy and
70 m.p.h. performance from the DATSUN 60 b.h.p. engine. Then add the
low maintenance costs that result from the rugged chassis and heavy-duty
components, precision engineered for dependable, long-term load carrying.
Surely DATSUN adds up to the most profitable proposition for you,
whether you are a fleet owner or a single unit operator.
Proudly sold and serviced by 240 fine dealers throughout Australia.
AUSTRALIAN CONCESSIONAIRES: NISSAN MOTOR DISTRIBUTORS (AUST.)
63 KINGSWAY, SOUTH MELBOURNE. VIC. 62 1741
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
SYDNEY: Capitol Motors (Holdings) Pty. Ltd., 31 9051-2-3; MELBOURNE: City Motors, 34 9251, 34 9175;
BRISBANE: Ira Berk (Qld) Pty. Ltd., 5 3561; ADELAIDE: Carcycle Pty. Ltd., 80 363; PERTH: Duncan
Motor Company Pty. Ltd., 21 8761, 21 6434; LAUNCESTON: Northern Motors, 2 1651; DARWIN:
Cavenagh Car Sales Pty. Ltd., 3393.
CM.eos


m
mmm
For you . . .
only the best
Em
Here's the camera that is the ultimate choice
of discriminating professional and enthusiastic
amateur photographers all over the world; the
camera that brings you picture perfection
and personal prestige.
Asahi PENTAX introduces you to a new world
of photographic delightl A wide choice of
incomparable Takumar lenses and a full range
of accessories puts you in command of every
photographic situation.
Asahi PENTAX SF with f/1.8 Takumar
Lens and E.R. case. £9O/0/0.
Asahi PENTAX S.I.A. with Auto Super
Takumar f/2 Lens and E.R. case,
£75/0/0.
Ask to see Asahi PENTAX at YOUR photo
dealer.
C. 957
not like the nursery; in politics obedi-
ence and support are the same. And
just as you supported and carried out a
policy of not wanting to share the earth
with the Jewish people and the people of
a number of other nations—as though
you and your superiors had any right to
determine who should and who should
not inhabit the world we find that no
one, that is, no member of the human
race, can be expected to want to share
the earth with you. This is the reason,
and the only reason, you must hang.”
The Thug Drug
Myths about “Aversion Therapy"
By FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
By GORDON HAWKINS
An article in a recent issue of the
“Justice of the Peace and Local
Government Review” has probably
excited more attention than anything
which has appeared in the pages of that
sober journal in the century and a
quarter of its existence. Yet it is difficult
to understand why Dr J. Kay's brief and
not particularly original “Plea for the
New Look in Penology and Social
Sciences” should have created such a
furore, or inspired such headlines as
“Nausea Drugs for Thugs”, “Doctor
Launches Plan for Crime-Cure Pill” and
“Enough to Make a Criminal Sick”. As
a matter of fact Dr Kay’s essential point
was made quite explicitly over three years
ago by Professor H. J. Eysenck in his
“Communicating with Caliban”, a lec-
ture broadcast on British television by
the Granada TV network and subse-
quently published by the University of
London Press in a paperback entitled
“Guildhall Lectures, 1960"’. Eysenck,
moreover, was only developing a line of
thought which can be traced back via
the American-behaviorist J. B. Watson
and the great Russian I. P. Pavlov to its
origins in the speculations of the
seventeenth-century French philosopher
Rene Descartes.
All this, however, is not to say that Dr
Kay’s article was insignificant or unim-
portant. Very briefly his suggestion is
that we should employ in dealing with
violent criminals the methods of “aver-
sion therapy” which have often proved
successful in the treatment of certain
types of sexual perversion and also
alcoholism.
In regard to alcoholism aversion
therapy commonly consists of the admini-
stration in large doses of some powerful
nausea-inducing drug such as apomor-
phine or emetine along with alcohol so
that vomiting is induced. After repeated
applications this can result in the produc-
tion of a conditioned aversion to the
thought, sight, smell and taste of alcohol,
and even to a photograph of the
bottles. In some cases the establishment
of this conditioned reaction is followed
by continued administration of drugs to
ensure the reappearance of nausea if
drinking is resumed. Similarly homo-
sexuals have been treated with some
success by the administration of a drug
which produced vomiting at the same
time as they were shown pictures of nude
males. In recent years, too, reports have
appeared in medical, psychological and
psychiatric journals of the successful
treatment of a variety of erotic fetishists
by aversion therapy. In one celebrated
case a man had a perambulator and
handbag fetishism which had led him to
slash and destroy prams and handbags
and on one occasion to deliberately ride
his motor-cycle combination into a
perambulator with a baby in it. This
had involved him in many criminal
charges and he was regarded as so dan-
gerous potentially that brain surgery
was considered. Ultimately, however,
he was treated by a process in which a
collection of handbags, perambulators
and colored pictures was shown to him
after he had received apomorphine and
just before nausea was induced.
This treatment was given at two hourly
intervals, day and night, no food was
allowed and at night amphetamine was
used to keep him awake. The treatment
succeeded. I quote from the account of
the doctor in charge of the case. “After
five days he said that the mere sight of the
objects made him sick. He was now con-
fined to bed and the prams and handbags
were continually with him, the treatments
being given at irregular intervals. On
the evening of the ninth day he rang his
bell and was found to be sobbing un-
controllably. He kept repeating ‘Take
them away’ . . . The sobbing continued
unabated until the objects were re-
moved . . .” The cure appears to have
been complete and permanent and the
patient has not since been in trouble
with the police. Numerous other cases
could be cited including one where a
homosexual in a London prison with a
fetish for boys’ belts was successfully
treated. It should be added, incidentally,
that although the most common way
of producing a conditioned aversion is
by the use of some noxious drug, this is
not essential and all kinds of conditioned
aversions have been produced by the
application of electric shocks.
The single element of novelty in Dr
Kay's article lies in the suggestion that
such methods should be used specifically
to deal with those “guilty of a crime of
violence”. Possibly this accounts for the
acclaim which it has received, for it is
not difficult to understand why the re-
commendation of this type of treatment
for such offenders should be popular with
the man in the street. All the more so
when it is couched in terms like “the
time has come for society to shed its
kid gloves in combat against its destroy-


ISSAN offers you a
complete range of 2-ton
commercial vehicles !
£
\S
o
C-
FOR BUSY CITY TRAFFIC
The most powerful 2 tonner on the road
today. Full forward control for maximum
manoeuvrability. Heavy duty box section
chassis and heavy duty truck compon-
ents, 92 B.H.P. engine, 4-speed gear box,
steering column change, boosted brakes.
Nissan Caball is built to carry a full 2
ton load under any conditions.
FULL PRICE, TAX PAID
£1465
FOR RUGGED COUNTRY USE
Carries greater loads than any truck its
size. 92 B.H.P. engine, 4-speed column
change with synchromesh on 2, 3 and 4.
Independent heavy duty suspension with
heavy duty truck components throughout
for long life and continuous operation.
FULL PRICE, TAX PAID
£1374
Mi
m
a
uessm Buizeuie eqi QNV
X
.
.
W
Tops for traction the ‘go-anywhere’
vehicle! 4-wheel drive, double reduction
ratio, 135 B.H.P. motor, 7 bearing crank-
shaft. Standard model includes all-steel
body, wind-up windows and soft top.
Optional extras long wheel base, rear
mounted drum winch, P.T.0., chassis &
cabin, tray, stake or drop sides, hard lop.
Full price, tax paid
£1252
Proudly sold and serviced by 240 fine dealers throughout Australia
AUSTRALIAN CONCESSIONAIRES: NISSAN MOTOR DISTRIBUTORS (AUST.)
63 KINGSWAY, SOUTH MELBOURNE, VIC. 62 1741
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
SYDNEY: Capitol Motors (Holdings) Pty. Ltd., 31 9051-2-3; MELBOURNE: City Motors, 34 9251, 34 9175;
BRISBANE: Ira Berk (Qid) Pty. Ltd., 5 3561; ADELAIDE: Carcycle Pty. Ltd., 8 0363; PERTH: Duncan
Motor Company Pty. Ltd., 21 8761, 21 6434; LAUNCESTON: Northern Motors, 2 1651; DARWIN:
Cavenagh Car Sales Pty. Ltd., 3393.


r
ii m
WmmM
mmm.
/
ORimifß
Hm,
mmiam
iiviAis;
LARGE
ADVERTISEMENT
Ciw^'
cci cv
IL™ Imi Iw#%
DECAC
II
thin
with
i
TRA
How else could you colourfully, permanently trademark a
really small product . . . an irregularly-shaped product such
as the Lorimier ignition contact set shown above? With
Selex Decal transfers there’s nothing to it.
Just as there's no longer a problem achieving truck-side
uniformity whilst avoiding heavy signwriting costs.
Transfers (SELEX DECAL transfers) are so often the answer
to so many problems. Let us go to work on yours.
SELEX DECAL* PTY. LTD.
*TH6 WORD DECAL 13 REGISTERED.
Melbourne Tel. 613211 • Sydney —Tel. 43 0221 • (Agents all other States)
ers” and “in the struggle of society
against its violent enemies, the guilty
offenders are expendable, society is not”.
Nor is it surprising that the crudeness,
even brutality, of the methods employed
should arouse the opposition of many
psychiatrists who argue that aversion
therapy is merely treatment of the symp-
toms and fails to eliminate the underlying
cause. Nevertheless, if it were estab-
lished that violent criminals could be
“cured'’, as Dr Kay suggests, by being
given “a potent and very unpleasant
drug which causes violent nausea and
then presented with certain objects or
pictures pertaining to their offences” or
alternatively by the administration of
“therapeutic shocks with the use of
electronic agents” popular enthusiasm
would be justified. Unfortunately, how-
ever, nothing of the kind has been
established. Dr Kay himself admits that
“whether this treatment is really effica-
cious it is too soon to say” and adds that
it should only be applied “in psychologi-
cally and socially suitable cases”. Herein
lies the crux of the problem.
The Failures
rPHE truth is that both in regard to al-
coholics and homosexuals condi-
tioning treatment has been far from
universally successful. There have been
some successes but there have also been
many failures. Nor is it likely that Dr
Kay is right when he suggests that “the
main reason for failures was lack of
stamina in persevering with undertaken
treatment” which could be avoided
under conditions of detention by means
of a “massive reinforcement” pro-
gramme. It seems likely that some
of the failures were due to the
fact that the procedures and methods
used were extremely primitive; and
possibly theoretical advances and
progress in fundamental research will re-
sult in the development of more refined
and exact techniques. But another con-
sideration must be mentioned. In a re-
markable monograph entitled “An experi-
mental study of punishment” by W. K.
Estes published twenty years ago it was
demonstrated that severe punishment
way have precisely the opposite of the
effect intended. It appears that in some
cases punishment merely increases
anxiety without decreasing the strength
of the objectionable habit; and then the
fear or anxiety, aroused itself, comes to
operate, as a drive, and reinforces the
habit we wish to extinguish. In aversion
therapy the treatment situation is very
similar to that where attempts are made
to eliminate a response merely by punish-
ing it. It has in fact been found that
a high degree of neuroticism in the
patient can mean that treatment leads to
a worsening rather than an improve-
ment of the condition requiring treatment.


388888
v
.
i
m
& 5
: - ■
V!
mm
V
iSSS?r $c&&£gSB
charge it . . . charge it . . . charge it . . . charge it . . . charge it . . . charge it .
%*4&k
ANSETTANA CREDIT CARD
mm
'■•'•Sx'-xWx-V.*:-
Cash? Forget it
Use our money to fly. Just bring your briefcase
and your Ansett-ANA Credit Card. It’s
your one asset that’s better than cash.
Not only can you use this Credit Card to
charge air fares on any Ansett-ANA Golden
Jet flight, but on any flight of associated airlines,
and your Avis Rent-A-Car, too.
Each month, a posted statement provides
your company with a permanent record on all
travel costs to help keep your accountant and
the tax people happy. It’s convenient services
like this that help us win so much repeat traffic
from businessmen. Have you got your Ansett-
ANA credit card yet?
Your nearby Ansett-ANA office will happily
arrange to have one of our new Credit Cards
sent to you immediately. Insist on superior
service always book . . .
ANSETT-ANA
SYSTEM OF THE GOLDEN JETS
SS:
MM


Would
you
forget
the
roof?
Of course not!
The roof's one item
you’d hardly overlook
in the design and con-
struction of a building.
But what of land
titles, Council
approvals, surveys
and Government and
semi-Government
approvals?
Would you remember
them?
Paynter & Dixon
would!
Building today
demands planning.
Paynter &. Dixon
building consultants,
designers and con-
tractors, plan every
detail from site selec-
tion to completion on
a nominated date.
Their planning saves
the client money and
worry—he signs just
one contract and
Paynter &. Dixon’s
staff of professional
and technical men
plan and co-ordinate
every intricate detail
of the project.
Paynter &. Dixon
serve commerce and
industry throughout
Australia and New
Zealand—and the
roof goes on every
building!
PAYNTER & DIXON
PT Y. LTD., 16 1
Clarence Street,
Sydney. 29-7951.
Victoria: 161 Fitzroy
Street, St. Ki Id a.
94-0781. Queensland:
53 Dover Street,
Albion. 63-033.
FAYNTER
& DIXON
DESIGN
CONSTRUCTION
The Cardinal
v. Santamaria
The role of Dr Ryan
By KEVIN DUFFY
Santamaria Story, published in
The Bulletin (February 15) does
both an historical and personal injustice
in dismissing the work of Rev. Dr P. J.
Ryan MSC, in combating Communism
“the Movement achieved little under
his guidance”. The well-documented
facts are that as a result of his ten years
of active public lecturing and personal
influence, the Catholic laity and clergy
in NSW were conditioned for participa-
tion in an active clash with the increas-
ingly powerful Communist Party.
Dr Ryan’s constant work as an anti-
Communist publicist created the “cli-
mate” which made possible a spectacu-
lar expansion in the Movement’s organi-
sational machinery in NSW. Catholics
were made aware of the very real local
Communist threat, and when asked to
participate actively in opposing it they
willingly did so. Just prior to the first
of its spectacular industrial successes
against Communism, the Movement’s
branch structure in Sydney was doubled
in twelve months, drawing on the vast
pool of potential “recruits” produced by
Dr Ryan’s public platform activities of
the previous Jen years. This organisa-
tional expansion made possible local in-
dustrial successes in some of the biggest
Communist-controlled unions in Austra-
lia; these local victories combined with
similar successes in other States resulted
in the replacement of almost 500 Com-
munist and fellow traveller officials in
two major unions in 1949.
In part this was the by-product of
Dr Ryan's work.
How New South Wales needs another
active Dr Ryan today!
In the last 10 years the “climate” has
changed significantly in this State.
Catholics who have participated in trade
union delegations to Communist China
where the Church has suffered the
greatest persecution in its two thousand
years existence are wined and dined
by men dedicated to the destruction of
themselves and their Church, and within
months of their return to Sydney serve
(by invitation) the Mass of prominent
churchmen in St. Mary’s Basilica.
Catholic political and trade union
leaders who vote for Communist policy
resolutions are entertained at the annual
CUSA House Paulian Association
Christmas Party; those opposing Com-
munist policy and known as DLP or


INTO
THE
CUSTOMER’S
HAND
immimmuumiis
CERTIFIED MAIL =
UBlO3l i
iiiiimmuiimumiis
AND
SIGNED
FOR
This is one feature of Certified Mail . , *
and you’ll have proof of posting as well.
All for 6d. plus postage.
(Please note that during transit Certified Mail is handled
with your ordinary mail and that compensation is paid only on registered mail\
AUSTRALIAN POST OFFICE
NCC members are shunned as being
worse than the Communists.
Running through the history of orga-
nised Catholic opposition to Communism
in Sydney is the decisive role played by
the advisers to His Eminence the Car-
dinal. Inevitably their known personal
convictions, which no one would ques-
tion, have manifested themselves in the
resultant action or inaction which the
Cardinal has approved. A change of
advisers preceded the Sydney withdrawal
from the national Movement in 1954.
At a conference of the clergy in St.
Mary’s Cathedral just after the NCC
began to work seriously in Sydney, His
Eminence read from a prepared state-
ment, something he rarely does at such
conferences. He read to more than 300
clergy engaged in parochial work within
the Archdiocese that there was a “sub-
versive organisation” (the National Civic
Council) within the diocese which was
doing the work of the Communists. The
assembled priests were told they were to
do nothing to assist this organisation.
They were told that the matter was not
to be discussed outside themselves. The
announcement and directive shocked a
large number of those present; within
hours the full details had been told to
NCC officials.
“Controversial”
"CWidence of His Eminence’s real con-
cern with the containment of Com-
munism manifests itself periodically. In
an audience granted to the leader of a
State-wide body of Catholic men the
Cardinal asked what the organisation
could do to combat Communism. “No-
thing”, he was told. The subject is too
controversial.
It is not surprising that there are
numerous cases of people joining the
NCC, then mentioning the matter to
their local clergy, and resigning at the
next meeting. Recently the energies of
several Catholic organisations were
thrown into one Sydney suburb after it
become known that the NCC was in the
process of forming a branch in the area.
A whispering campaign quoting the dis-
pleasure of high church authorities with
the NCC was organised and within days
many of the potential members were
convinced that by joining the NCC and
working against Communism they were
being disloyal to the diocesan authorities.
This continuing discrepancy between
the Cardinal’s repeated injunctions to the
laity to be active in opposing Com-
munism and the actual happenings at
lower levels within the diocese make it
possible for those who adopt a do-
nothing policy with local Communists to
invoke the authority of some highly
placed adviser to justify their public
behavior.
Lest this opposition be interpreted as
a sign that the NCC is in trouble the
facts of its NSW activities should be
known. Industrial victories in one
case equal in significance to the best of
the 1949-era results have been
achieved. There are already about 60
operative NCC branches. Full-time or-
ganisers in Sydney will be doubled within
12 months. At present nine active train-
ing schools are in progress. The slower
pace of recruiting as a result of inspired
opposition is simply bringing into the
organisation people who are more alert
and dedicated, who in many cases have
already had their loyalty to the NCG
and its work tested in overcoming at-
tempts to dissuade them from joining.
Before we can help restrict the spread
of Communism in Asia, we must put
our own house in order. The real
Santamaria story, properly understood,
has far-reaching implications which
could one day affect for good the lives
of every Australian. |


Limited Release For Connoisseurs
Special Vintage Wines
From The Hunter River Valley
As every wine lover knows, the best vintage wines come from vines with a very
low yield. These grapes are very costly to produce and are seldom available
except in small quantities and at high prices. Lindeman’s can supply—while the
limited supplies last some very rare vintage wines at prices which, by inter-
national vintage wine standards, are extremely low.
1962 VINTAGE RIESLING LINDEMAN’S BIN 1930
A very soft, fruity, pungent Riesling from Lindeman’s Ben Ean Vineyard, similar
in style to a German “Auslese” Riesling, from specially selected grapes picked
late. WINNER OF MANY PRIZES INCLUDING GOLD MEDAL AND
SPECIAL TROPHY for the Best Dry White Wine of the 1963 Royal Easter Show.
1961 VINTAGE RIESLING LINDEMAN’S BIN 1777
A mellow, round, soft dry white made from Riesling grapes grown at Lindeman’s
“SUNSHINE” Vineyard, Hunter River Valley, N.S.W. Awarded—SlLVEß MEDAL,
1962 BRISBANE SHOW: 2 year Hock; FIRST PRIZE, 1962 MELBOURNE
SHOW: 2 year Hock; SILVER MEDAL, 1963 SYDNEY SHOW: 2 year Hock.
NOTE BIN NUMBERS AND ORDER FROM RETAILERS & RESTAURANTS
The Wedding of
Food and Wine
Hearty reds don’t like delicate fish
By CELLARMASTER
IN winemanship much is made of
choosing the right wine to go with
the food. Since food plays so large
a part in our lives, it would seem rea-
sonable that we eat intelligently, with
discernment and enjoyment. And since
wine enhances almost everything we eat,
it would again seem reasonable that we
give some thought to this relationship.
Initially, in the first physical and
spiritual flush of wine-drinking, one is
apt to be pamphlet-dogmatic on the sub-
ject. “I always have chablis with
oysters”, “You can’t drink red wine with
chicken”, “But you must have a sherry
to start”, are common enough insist-
ences.
Then, as the palate matures, a reverse
snobbery sets in and this is manifest in
people who insist on drinking hearty
reds with delicate fish, light dry whites
with heavy marinades and so on. “Oh,
all that stuff is rubbish, drink what you
like with what you like!” Fair enough
too, but it does make things difficult and
can result in IT not liking you.
Finally, the stage is reached when an
honest effort is made to match the two.
Great fun can be had in sorting out a
particular wine for a particular dish, and
even greater fun in consuming them.
One important thing to realise is that
often the wine should match the sauce
and not the mass, that is, a crisp light
white for steamed chicken but quite a
full-bodied red for coq an vin. And it
helps if a fair range of wine is handy,
preferably in your own cellar; but we
have talked of this before.
To me, one of the great pleasures
is sharing food and wine with friends,
and the little trouble taken is worth-
while. Recently I was one of a small
dinner party for six. It was basically a
simple meal, though not an inexpensive
one, and I will relate it in some detail
because it stresses a few worthwhile
points.
The first course was a choice between
smoked salmon and duck pate, platters
of each being placed on the table and
guests helping themselves. One white
wine was served, a Great Western
L 1 & 4 chablis. This beautiful Austra-
lian wine suited either choice, and guests
were told to keep a little for comparison
with the next whites. These were Lin-
deman’s 1333 white burgundy 1959, and
a Grand Cru Grenouille 1958 chablis,
served to complement a chicken Prince
Rainier (whole baby chicken, boned and
stuffed with veal and pork, served with
fresh grapes cooked in wine sauce).
A platter of cheeses followed, mostly
of the medium strength varieties. These
were matched by a 1954 Chateau
Latour, a delicate bordeaux with very
good flavor though a little too much
tannin. Finnaly, a bowl of fruit —•
chilled fresh mangoes, peaches, grapes.
The wine, Chateau d’Yquem, 1958,
luscious as ever without being cloying,
and having the freshness of compara-
tively little bottle age.
The whole was a perfectly balanced
meal. We rose from the table not in
the least “over-blown”, satisfied without
being sated, quenched without being
quarrelsome. Though the chicken was
the highlight the meal did not tail off,
and this was due, I think, to the wines
that were served with the courses that
followed it. Incidentally, neither vin-
tage is rated very highly on the charts.
The balance was due to simple rules
dry wines before sweet, dry whites
before dry reds, delicacy before “heavi-
ness”, and lead up to the great wine.
Our pleasure reflected credit on the
trouble taken.
Wine for a barbecue?
Another notable combination —At a
recent supper our host served spag-
hetti with a rich meat sauce and with it
a Milaw'a Shiraz and Mondeuse 1960.
I've always thought these reds made by
John Brown a little on the coarse side,
very earthy and full-bodied, but this w’as
a perfect match. The more spaghetti I
ate the more I appreciated the wine to
wash it down and the more I washed it
down the more room I found for the
food. Also with a Cherries Jubilee we
drank a Kaiser Stuhl late picking riesling,
and I think this is the right way to use
these rather sweet wines lately becoming
so evident on the market.
Finally, on a recent motor-yacht
excursion, I was put in charge of the
catering arrangements for the lunchtime
barbecue. Knowing the captain to be a
lifetime beer man, I was careful to
pack some for fear of being keel-hauled
or something, but in addition put in a
few flagons of Penfolds dry red. Came
disembarkation on the beach for lunch,
I left the remaining beer behind, and
with the sizzling steaks and sausages
served waxed cups of this fresh irrigation
wine.
The skipper’s wrath was immediate,
but being too lazy, and frankly too fat,
to expend too much energy, he finally
consented to drink the demon plonk.
His reaction was almost overwhelming,
for he declared it was the best stuff he
had had in years, what had he been
missing, and didn't it make the steak
taste so much better!
Greater reward hath no man than this,
and I sank back contentedly on the sand,
lulled by the music of the lapping of the
waves, the snoring of my companions,
and the recurrent shouts of the skipper
for “More red biddy!!”


Icubak
CAVENDISH
TOBACCO
luxury blend
PIPE OR
CIGARETTE
IN 3 BLENDS- 5 2 2
MILD * NUT SWEET * RUM
These distinguished, much sought
after blends are now sold by tobac-
conists. If not available write to
the blenders:
THE TABAK COMPANY
50 Miller St., Nth. Sydney. 92 8489
OVERSEAS
The Quite Extraordinary
Mr Belli
Jack Ruby’s defence lawyer at Dallas
By PENDENNIS
Of all the strange figures involved in
the Ruby trial, none is more extra-
ordinary than Ruby’s lawyer from
San Francisco, Melvyn Belli. His pre-
sence in Dallas adds a special flavor of
raciness and improbability to the whole
tragic farce.
Belli decided to become a lawyer after
suing the principal of his high school,
and being delighted how easy and
successful it was.
As he tells the story: “I was class
valedictorian, and the night before gradu-
ation I was suddenly taken drunk. Next
day I was unable to make the speech.
In fact, I was unable to find the school.”
The principal withheld Belli’s diploma
as punishment. Belli’s father consulted
an old lawyer friend, who advised suing
the principal. It worked; Belli got his
diploma and decided to take to law.
Now 56, he got his law degree at the
University of California in 1933; he took
a lot of odd jobs first, travelling round
the Californian countryside. He was
arrested for vagrancy and claims to have
a large number of suspended sentences
hanging over him.
Today he collects $1 million a year
in what he calls “blood money” (damages
claims for clients who have suffered loss
or injury). His usual fee is one-third of
the sum. Damages cases are his speciality
(he is known as “King of Torts”), but
he also practises criminal law. He hasn’t
always got his clients acquitted: one of
them was Caryl Chessman.
In the field of damages, he has repre-
sented Errol Flynn, Mae West and
Maureen Connolly. He won $95,000
damages for Maureen for a leg injury
when she was riding a horse that was
hit by a truck. As evidence, he showed
the jury a film of “Little Mo” winning
a tennis match at Wimbledon. Summing
up, he told the jury: “She, and all of us
in this courtroom, has been brushed with
celestial fire.”
Other examples of Belli’s “demon-
strative evidence,” as he calls it:
• Representing a woman whose leg
had been severed at the knee by the
wheels of a San Francisco street-car,
he went through the whole trial with an
ominous-shaped parcel on the table in
front of him. It was wrapped in several
layers of butcher’s paper, and at appro-
priate moments during the trial he
fingered the string, as though to undo it.
He never mentioned the package, but
during his closing arguments he began
to unwrap it, slowly and dramatically.
Court officials and jurors winced.
Finally Belli reached the last layer of
paper, to produce an artificial limb,
which he described as “the marvellous
scientific invention” that his client would
have to wear for the rest of her life.
He handed it to the jurors one by one,
asking them if they would be willing to
lose a leg and wear this one, for a re-
compense of less than $lOO,OOO. (The
woman had formerly been awarded
$65,000, and Belli was appealing against
it.) After Belli’s little drama the jury
upped the damages to $lOO,OOO in a
matter of minutes.
• To demonstrate the suffering of a
682-lb circus boy hurt in a car accident,
he arranged to have his client brought
to court in a moving van and hoisted in
through the courtroom window by a
special crane which he had hired. The
hoisting wasn’t necessary. The defence
settled for $14,500 on the court steps.
• His most recent victory, last month,
was to win an 11-year battle for $1
million damages for the widow of
William Kapell. Kapell, one of America’s
most promising pianists, was killed in
an air crash when he was on board a
plane of British Commonwealth Pacific
Airlines, since absorbed by Qantas. Belli
proved wilful misconduct by the plane
crew. As witnesses to Kapell’s genius,
he got Isaac Stern, Artur Rubinstein


CHEVRON' HILTON
HOTEL
Sydneys focal point for all
IMPORTANT FUNCTIONS
OFFERS YOU
A NEW LOW COST
ALL-INCLUSIVE
hostplan'
Service
Whether it’s a banquet, dinner party, grand ball,
wedding breakfast, convention, sales meeting or
cocktail party, enjoy the luxury and service of
Sydney’s most experienced hotel.
Before making arrangements for your next social
or business function, contact the banquet Manager,
TELEPHONE 35.0433 EXT. 275, 259, 270 or write direct to
CHEVRON HILTON MACLEAY ST., POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY
CHEV/1687A
and Van Cliburn to testify, and played
recordings of Kapell in court.
Belli drives a Rolls-Royce, which he
often has repainted: beige, purple, silver
or rose. He has his suits made in Savile
Row. For his first visit to Ruby in jail
he wore cowboy boots, a greatcoat with
a Persian lamb collar, and sunglasses,
though it was a cloudy day.
He travels the country giving seminars
for young lawyers' Has this advice for
them in picking a jury in a damages
case: avoid young farmers ftoo thrifty
with money); women (if a woman is on
trial); experts of any sort, particularly
doctors and nurses (too callous and too
anxious to display their knowledge).
He thinks that artists, literary people
and musicians make good plaintiff’s
jurists because they are used to handling
money in large lump sums. He thinks
Irish, Italians, Jews and Negroes are
good; English, Scandinavians and Ger-
mans are bad.
Among his pieces of advice to young
lawyers: “If your client has been hospita-
lised, go to hospital, remove the bandages
and take photographs of the wounds in
color. Infra-red is effective. Then sub-
poena all the X-rays and hospital charts.”
Belli’s sumptuous and garish office in
San Francisco shocks many of his
colleagues. He has converted a three-
story block into a sort of antique shop
with velvet chairs, electrified hurricane
lamps, cherubs on the ceiling and a
heraldic shield reading “King of Torts”.
He boasts that he hangs the certificate
of the American Bar Association over
the bowl in the washroom.
He is proud of helping to raise the
level of damages awards. “I like to think
I am doing nice things for the widows
and orphans of the future.” Last year
he sued for damages himself. He claimed
that some season tickets he had bought
at his local baseball stadium were sold
to him on the understanding that the
seats would be warmed by radiant heat.
They weren’t, and Belli caught a cold.
He won $1597 in damages—the cost of
his season tickets, (ofns)


See the Rocketmen at...
THE ROYAL
lASTER SHOW
20th MARCH to
31st MARCH, 1964
10 DAYS & 8 NIGHTS
xm
■ '
§§M§m
Two American self-propelled rocketmen
will appear at this year’s show. They will';
wear Bell Rocket Belts, developed by Bell:
Aerosystems Company, a Textron Com-
pany, and can fly more than 800 feet at a;
speed of 60 miles an hour.
Don’t miss the greatest spectacle of the year! See our finest
stock on parade, cattle judging, woodchopping, primary and
secondary industry exhibits and the wealth of other events,
including comprehensive wool exhibition, army display and
fireworks, and for the first time the Australian shearing
championships will be held at this year’s show. These
combine to make the Royal Easter Show the greatest single
attraction in the Southern Hemisphere!
HTHTTr
im
DN EXHIBITION IS THE “FARMSTEAD”—A HOME DESIGNED BY
A LEADING ARCHITECT ESPECIALLY FOR COUNTRY LIVING.
Cheers for a Hated Man
Krishna Menon indicts Britain
From JAMES MITCHELL in New Delhi
That former Defence Minister
Krishna Menon should have be-
come again the most loudly
cheered speaker in the Delhi Parliament
during the debate on Kashmir is a mea-
sure of the sudden shift which the West-
ern stand in the Security Council has
brought about in India’s political life.
Since he was forced out of office
during the Chinese attack in the Hima-
layas Mr Krishna Menon would pro-
bably have won the competition for “the
most hated man” in Parliament.
Recently, however, he was warmly
acclaimed by all sides of the House when
he launched the most violent attack on
Britain’s attitude in the Kashmir affair,
which he characterised as an attempt
“to get the Empire back by the side
door”.
The cheers which punctuated his in-
dictment of Britain are not the only
proof of the strong sentiments roused in
Britain by Sir Patrick Dean’s support
for Pakistan’s case in New York.
It is known that at a private meeting
of the Congress Parliamentary Party the
same week even some members who are
not inclined to take up extreme attitudes
pleaded in favor of breaking the Com-
monwealth tie and for getting out of the
British “family of nations”.
Tempers no doubt will cool down and
second thoughts will prevail. But the
feeling remains that India has been a
victim of British “treachery”. After
many months during which the West
thanks to its precious military help after
the Chinese aggression was considered
more and more to be India’s best friend,
the pendulum is now swinging back
sharply.
The Security Council debate has re-
minded everybody that in the crucial
question of Kashmir the Soviet veto
remains India’s last and perhaps only
weapon.
The sudden change of mood which
has overcome India is naturally wel-
comed by all those who feared that the
country was becoming too dependent on
Western military assistance.
From this point of view the explosion
of anger against the British is helping
the Nehru Government to restore its
halo of non-alignment, which was some-
what tarnished in recent months by the
joint air manoeuvres with RAF and
American squadrons and by the passive
acceptance of Washington’s decision to
send the Seventh Fleet into the Indian
Ocean.
It will take some time before the
right-wing opponents of Mr Nehru
including those working within the
Congress Party will be able to raise
again their voices in favor of “closer
links” with the West.
If the immediate consequences are
clear, Indian political circles, however,
find it more difficult to understand the
“secret aims” of the British Govern-
ment, which is seen here as the main
villain in the Security Council
manoeuvres.
Part of the Press naturally suggests
that a Conservative Britain simply can-
not forget its “arrogance” and would
like in Krishna Menon’s words to
go on “telling India how to behave after
having misruled the country for 150
years”.
Those who find such an explanation
much too simple suspect more
Machiavellian motives in the minds of
the British leaders. Current specula-
tions are that the London Foreign Office
wanted in fact to throw India back into
the arms of Soviet Russia so as to stop
more effectively the systematic attempts
by the Americans to “infiltrate” India’s
political life. (ofns.)


IP! >Y>;;l
MPH t 1
mm
■ . ' ■■'■
::
■
Hertz
rents late model Holdens and other fine cars, runs them on Caltex Butane Boosted
gasoline and RPM Motor Oil—a great combination.
HERTZ invites you to join this world-wide
‘key club’ of knowledgeable travellers
This is the best way to travel—in a Hertz car. Wherever you go, Hertz, the
world’s number one car rental system, really looks after you.
World-class car rental comes to Australia. Seasoned travellers know Hertz—■
the most experienced car rental service there is. Now, completing a world-wide
network, Hertz has come to Australia. Experienced, well-equipped licensees
are offering world-beating Hertz service in major cities throughout Australia.
When you rent a car from Hertz you can do so much more on your trip. You
save money—and, more important, save time. You're not tied to a time-table
and four or five can travel as cheaply as one. All Hertz cars are thoroughly
insured and Hertz cleans the car inside and out; checks brakes, steering, all
vital parts. You're ready to go—in a car you can be proud of.
Let HERTZ put you in the driver’s seat! Next time, go the Hertz way. Get
more done on business trips. Have a holiday car without wearing out your
own on long interstate drives. Be a two-car family for a weekend. Have a
Hertz car delivered when your own is in service. A local call reserves a car
anywhere in Australia. Call your Travel Agent or one of the Hertz offices listed
below
ADELAIDE: Kennedy’s-Hertz, 74 Grole Street. Tel.: 51 5278-80
BRISBANE: Cahill’s-Hertz, 93-103 George Street. Tel.: 2 0505-6
MELBOURNE: Astoria-Hertz, 630 Swanston Street. Tel.: FJ 9048
NEWCASTLE: Kennedy’s-Hertz, 14 Wood Street. Tel.: 61 3486
ROCKHA METON: Godwin’s-Hertz, Victoria House, East Street. Tel.: 2733-4251
SYDNEY: Lessey’s-Hertz, 55-61 Riley Street. Tel.: 31 0556
SURFERS PARADISE/COOLANGATTA (GOLD COAST):
Duncan’s-Hertz, 15 Beach Road, Surfers Paradise. Tel.: 9 3055
PERTH: Sydney Anderson’s-Hertz, 1 William Street. Tel.: 21 9134
Executives—send this coupon, with your business letterhead, to your nearest Hertz office.
Please send me details of the Hertz International Credit Card system.
NAME
ADDRESS
iLet HERTZ put you in the driver’s seat!
i zzz:
A Peephole
for Peking?
China’s Embassy in
Switzerland
From WILLIAM MILLINSHIP
in Berne
The Chinese Communist Embassy in
Berne is the base for Peking’s
espionage network in Europe, the
whispers say in Paris, London and Rome.
And the whispers get into print.
An Italian paper reports that the
Chinese Ambassador to Switzerland, Mr
Li Ching Chuan, has 320 fully-trained
secret agents working for him in Western
Europe, and has spent 750 million lire
just on developing a Chinese group in
the Italian Communist Party. As for
military intelligence, the paper goes on,
the Chinese military attache in Berne,
Colonel Ting Shan, spends 100 million
dollars a year.
A case for J. Bond, you think. So
you decide to put your head in the
dragon's mouth, and telephone the
Chinese Embassy.
“Sorry, we are closed for the Chinese
New Year”, says a voice, with a giggle
but hardly any accent, in English.
“There’s no one here till Monday”.
You insist. Perhaps someone could
put in a few minutes’ overtime to see
you. The giggle becomes forced then
fades completely. “What exactly do you
want?” the voice asks sharply.
You say you would like to know how
many Chinese diplomats live and work
in Switzerland. And is it true they run
“a school for diplomats” in Berne? The
voice cannot comment. “We're on holi-
day. Why don’t you send us a letter?”
You take a taxi to the Embassy in-
stead. It is a bourgeois-looking villa
with a red roof and green shutters (shut),
in a quiet one-way street, dominated by
a modern concrete church with a very
loud bell. The district is residential, on
a hill, beyond the bear pits. Most of
the other embassies are nearby.
A large Plymouth saloon and a Citroen
station wagon are parked outside the
villa. You ring the doorbell, ignoring
a neat little notice confirming that the
Embassy is closed for the “spring
festival”.
A tiny Chinese in a cardigan opens the
door, but can speak only Chinese and
Swiss-German. You try to communicate
in French, and he retreats, leaving you
on the doorstep.
A French-speaking Chinese, in a faded
blue double-breasted suit, appears and
points with a grin to the notice, then


Whatever the occasion
one
Scotch
stands
out...
VAT
69
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
m a *
4
: BY APPOINTMENT ,
TO HER MAJESTY;;
: QUEEN LU/ABETH I! '
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
WML. SANDERSON & SON LTD,
NZL36/6.3
FREE: 2 booklets: Atomic Motoring
Age, Historical Facts, Motor
Repairs, Economy Hints.
NU-MOTO-LIFE NU-METAL (Pat.)
OVERHAULS WHILE-U-DRIVE
REPLATES worn engines, upper
cylinders, main bearings, diffs,
gears. SAVES rebore. ENDS piston
slap, rattles, oil/petrol waste. Also
decarbonises. RESTORES new com-
pression power, top speed zip.
SAVES. Adds £sd to resale value.
GUARANTEED 25,000 miles. No
results —no pay. Harmless finest
engine. SIMPLE. Add Re-Nu ex-
panding liquid Nu-Moto-Life Nu-
Metal to oil, petrol or plug holes.
Testimonials, engineers' reports,
free advice available. Open Satur-
day morning. Distributors required.
Sold only by RE-NU CO. (Estab.
1932). 58 Swan St., opp. Rich-
mond Stn., Vic. 42-1755. 4,6,
8 cylinders: 60/-, 70/-, 80/-.
Call, Post, Phone Now.
(ORDER FORM)
I enclose £ for Nu-Metal.
Name
Address "BUL."
or send for free particulars
describing action NU-MOTO-LIFE
NU-METAL.
darts his eyes into yours, as if trying to
read inside your head. He cannot say
whether they will be sending most of
their staff to the new Paris Embassy.
He has not any propaganda leaflets at
hand, but will send you one.
Less direct inquiries confirm that the
Chinese do have the biggest staff of any
Embassy in Berne, with 14 accredited
diplomats (all married, but only seven
have their wives with them), and 40
others, including cooks, drivers, inter-
preters, etc. Some are there to “learn
about Western Europe”.
But the Swiss insist they never had
any trouble with Chinese spies, and they
watch this Embassy pretty closely.
The Chinese can travel freely in
Switzerland, but they need a visa to get
in, and it would be difficult to hide a
large number of yellow men in a quiet
little town like Berne. The Swiss did
feel uneasy when the Embassy opened in
1950, but the Chinese, apart from
driving too fast, have given no cause
for alarm.
They keep very much to themselves,
living together at the Embassy itself or
in two other houses. They give two or
three parties a year, at which they serve
local wines, rice wine and Chinese
“champagne”. But they lead a lonely
life, especially now that the Russians and
other Eastern European diplomats treat
them almost as coldly as do the Ameri-
cans.
The Chinese do physical exercises
every day in the back garden of the
Embassy, and have a pronounced taste
for American cars. If they do operate
a large spy network, they are brilliantly
concealing it. Perhaps, as the Swiss say,
they spend most of their time reading
Switzerland’s 400 newspapers.
Yet they did effectively cover up their
meetings here with the French before the
Franco-Chinese diplomatic exchange.
And Berne, like all small towns, is a
watchful place. Paris will be easier to
move about in unnoticed. (ofns.)
Fewer Catholic
Converts
" Modernisation ”
unpopular?
From CECIL NORTHCOTT
in London
A sharp decline in the number of
converts to Roman Catholicism in
Britain is causing concern to
Catholic authorities.
For six or seven years the number of
converts remained fairly constant at
about 14,000 a year. But last year
there was a fall of 900.
Normally most converts in Britain do
not come, as is usually supposed, from
other churches, but from non-church-
goers. It is the diminution in this
number that is most disconcerting. It
suggests that the Church is losing its
impact. Father Francis Ripley, of the
Catholic Information Centre, says that
out of 63 converts he has received in
the last two years only three were con-
nected with other churches.
The chief reason given in many letters
to the Centre is the association of the
Church with the ecumenical movement
and its increasing association with other
churches. The Vatican Council’s plans
to “modernise” the Church are by no
means popular amongst the rank and
file, and tend to blur the image of the
Church for the would-be convert.
But Father Ripley is not convinced
by this argument. He believes that the
drop in converts is due to the growth
of materialism.


DIGESTIVE TRACTS
"It's a very good slimming pill but i.t # s
not a great slimming pill."
"Now ze sauce! Add just a soupcon to each simmering
portion to bring out my true Occidental flavour!"


letters
to the
editor
NAZI WAR CRIMINALS
Sir,
1 was much interested in the article
(15/2/64) on “Echoes of Auschwitz”.
It is true that the process of bringing to
justice Nazi war criminals in the Federal
Republic of Germany has been much
delayed, but it is necessary to explain
to your readers why this is so. There
are, to my mind, several facts which
ought to be kept in mind:
(1) After the defeat of Nazi Germany
in 1945 the country was in a chaotic
state. In view of the complete collapse
of the administration and the loss of a
great number of official files, documents
and registers in the ruins of buildings, it
was relatively easy for criminals either
to help themselves to new papers with
invented names or to appropriate papers
belonging to persons either dead or
absent. In this way, many a person
guilty of war crimes was able to live
undetected under a false name in
another community all the more suc-
cessfully as there was an unprecedented
flux of population for a number of years.
(2) German courts could only become
more active in cleaning up the country
after the Control Council’s limitations
of German jurisdiction had been re-
pealed in 1956. This was eleven years
after the war.
(3) It was not until 1958 that complete
archives revealing the extent of war
atrocities were found.
(4) During the five years from 1958
to 1963 the Ludwigsburg Prosecution
Office of the “Lander” (provinces) in-
vestigated hundreds of cases and passed
them on to public prosecutors. 730 per-
sons meanwhile have been sentenced by
German courts for having committed
war crimes. Six received life sentences
and 115 heavy sentences of hard labour.
(Dr) BRUNO RICHTER
Counsellor, Press and Information,
Embassy of the Federal Republic
of Germany.
Canberra (ACT).
AUSTRALIAN HISTORY
Sir,
Having freely exercised a regrettable
phobia against numbers of organisations
and persons associated with Australian
history, M. H. Ellis has now returned
(15/2/64) to an attack on the Royal
Australian Historical Society, with side-
swipes at the National Trust and the
Cumberland County Council.
In the matter of the site of the first
flag-raising at Sydney Cove, it is noted
once again that Mr Ellis, in his capacity
as cheer-leader for M. H. Ellis, has
given himself yet another hearty pat for
the part he allegedly played in having
a committee set up to try to resolve this
problem. But, of course, it does not
follow that the committee will adopt the
Ellis pronouncement regarding the spot
students who may fairly be regarded
as reliable are quite unwilling to dog-
matise on the subject, and the commit-
tee, on its part, has been deliberating on
the question for quite a while.
As for Sydney’s historical markers
as a whole, the work of selecting sub-
jects, determining sites, and writing in-
scriptions (100 in all) had to be done
by a small committee of the RAFIS
within a very brief period, and so the
authorities were warned at the time
against the possibility of errors occur-
ring. Sure enough, certain slips (one a
typing mishap) became apparent at an
early stage, and are being rectified, and
thus there was no real need for the
belated and pontifical intrusion of Mr
Ellis.
A. H. CHISHOLM
Former General Secretary, RAHS.
Sydney (NSW).
[There is little need to comment on
Mr Chisholm’s letter save to say that if
he has any doubt about whether my
action led to the appointment of the
Sydney City Council’s Committee on the
first landing place in Sydney Cove, the
minutes of the City Council will settle
the question for him. As for the marking
of historical sites in Sydney, the nume-
rous elementary errors speak for them-
selves. They reflect little credit on his
“small committee,” even if it had had
only five minutes instead of months in
which to do its work. M. H. Ellis]
“LOLITA”
Sir,
Is there such a dearth of good litera-
ture that professors are compelled to
introduce banned books to their students?
Or is the current move of Dr Brissenden
of setting a banned novel as textbook
for his students another “intellectual”
attempt to defy law and to encourage
licence in the name of liberty?
Irrespective of the merits or demerits
of the particular book, I am surprised
at The Bulletin’s encouragement of
this anti-censorship attitude; especially as
it also gives prominence in the same
issue (22/2/64) to the news of the
League of Decency urging more action
to be taken against indecent literature
which is corrupting the minds and lives
of young and old.
We have certain laws to protect the
physical life, health and property of the
community, so why the objection to laws
to protect the moral life of society?
Literature gains nothing by removing all
restraints, but the whole nation loses by
having barnyard behavior, dirt and de-
gradation presented to it as “literature”.
The issues of right and wrong need to
be brought back into our national think-
ing, and youth given a clear lead uncon-
fused by pseudo-champions of liberty.
MARJORIE BATES
Brisbane ( Qld ).
ARMY OFFICERS
Sir,
The fundamental underlying factor
which has caused the younger Army
officers’ discontent is the quality of our
senior “leaders”. All our generals and
most of our brigadiers are completely
out of touch with the bulk of the Army,
and, because of this, are also entirely
out of sympathy with it. A most cursory
glance at the background of any number
of our top brass will show that the bulk
of their career has been spent in the
“Lt-Col. and above” bracket.
Most of them are members of the
immediate post-depression Duntroon
classes, who were so small in number
that not only did they provide little scope
for leadership selection, but all they had
to do to reach their exalted positions
was to continue breathing!
After perhaps three to five years as
subalterns or majors most finished the
war in a rank so senior that they could
never learn to appreciate the difficulties,
hardships and humiliations which are
the bread-and-butter of the post-1948
junior officer.
“EXODUS”
Hursiville (NSW).
Sir,
I am a Regular Army officer, but
unlike “Major” (22/2/64) I make no
claim that I am happy in or satisfied
with the Service; very much the opposite,
in fact. My unhappiness in the Service
and dissatisfaction with conditions of
service, however, had little to do with
my decision to resign at this time. Were
it only for these I would have stayed
on to discharge my obligation to the
Army for the training I have received.
Under no circumstances, however, am
I prepared to become a slave to the
Army for the rest of my working life
by submitting to the Military Board’s
iniquitous, and we hope to show illegal,
policy of refusing to accept resignations
except under the most exceptional cir-
cumstances. Rather would I eventually
walk out and accept a dishonorable dis-
charge.
Such a policy deprives Army officers
not only of a basic human right (that of
choosing one’s own employment), but
of their last remaining means of com-
pelling the Military Board to correct in-
justices and maintain pay and conditions
of service at reasonable levels. The
situation could well arise where they
are called upon to defend rights and a
way of life they do not enjoy themselves.
If any section of the community, no
matter how small, is deprived of any
basic freedom, then by no stretch of the
imagination can this be said to be a free


country. Where freedom is involved there
can be no question of degree. A country
is either entirely free or it is not free
at all. There is, therefore, a great deal
more at stake than the freedom of a
small minority in the community. The
freedom of the entire community is in
jeopardy.
“CAPTAIN”
Macleod (Vic.).
COMMUNISM IN INDONESIA
Sir,
My dispute with Dr Knopfelmacher is
becoming a bit of a slanging match. I
am evasive, he says (15/2/64). I do
not think so, but what of his own com-
plete evasion of my concluding question
to him in my last letter. Does he really
advocate any policy towards Indonesia
other than one in which vigilance is
combined with a determination on our
part to keep open the door to negotiation
and understanding? To take up some
of the points of his last letter:
(1) On the question of the nature of
internal government, Dr Knopfelmacher
still seems to me to be misinformed. I
can only repeat, on the basis of some
first-hand study of the question, that, for
the most part, the territorial administra-
ion is one of the more efficient services
of the central Government. Dr Knop-
felmacher’s picture of “semi-independent
war lords”, is quite out of date, though
it would have had some point in 1957-
59. Can he name a single military com-
mander to whom this description could
reasonably be applied today?
(2) His point about Soviet arms was,
in fact, made quite explicitly by me in
my last letter. This military presence
does not necessarily mean a Cuba-type
commitment on the part of the Soviet
Union.
(3) I did not, at any stage, suggest that
PKI was “no longer a real Communist
Party”. I agree with him that the party
is powerful. I disagree that it is on the
threshold of power.
Dr Knopfelmacher has recently
(25/1/64) given his sources for some
of his statements. One of these is an
article by Dr Hindley. Is it altogether
honest to take certain facts from Hindley
and to cite Hindley in support of his
views, while at the same time conceal-
ing from the reader the fact that the
whole burden of Hindley’s argument
runs in a contrary direction to his own?
J. D. LEGGE
Monash University,
Clayton (Vic.).
MR SANTAMARIA
Sir,
Mr Peter Coleman’s “The Santamaria
Story” (15/2/64) makes no substantial
assessment of Mr B. A. Santamaria’s
own political values and the effect of
their impact on Australia. Yet if Mr
Santamaria is even likely to be in the
future what Mr Coleman contends he has
been in the immediate past—one of the
most influential personalities in Aus-
tralian politics—it is important that such
an assessment be attempted.
Consideration of Mr Santamaria’s
writings and speeches (both published
and unpublicised) in my opinion lead to
the conclusion that his significant political
values are rooted in authoritarian
concepts and practices and not in the
principles and traditions of parliamen-
tary democracy. The overall impression
is that Santamaria has no real belief
in the democratic system such as we in
Australia hitherto have known and
enjoyed. Again and again in Movement
and National Civic Council propaganda
and practices one notes a decided and
peremptory emphasis upon unquestion-
ing obedience to and compliance with
the directions and wishes of the person
in the circumstances “best qualified to
know and to judge”. (This person almost
inevitably turns out to be B. A. Santa-
maria).
Somebody well up in the council of
the Movement was once heard rather
ruefully to say “of course we (the
Movement) have meetings and motions
are debated and passed or rejected; why,
sometimes even Bob Santamaria’s own
motions are defeated, but somehow in
the end Bob does what he wants —”
The Movement was a mistaken and
dangerous venture. It has seriously
damaged Australian society both in its
civil and religious aspects. The Move-
ment was repugnant morally because it
was essentially a secret organisation. It
became reprehensible politically because,
by adopting the Communist technique
of group infiltration and calculated de-
famation of opponents, inevitably it ran
the risk of acquiring, and did in fact
acquire, some of the vices of the Com-
munists. Its methods consistently were
lacking in integrity and the technique of
its successor, the National Civic Council,
is essentially unchanged.
If, as Mr Coleman’s article suggests
may well happen, Mr Santamaria acquires
at some time in the future a dominating
and determining influence in Australian
politics, then that will be a sad day for
democracy.
T. M. BUTLER
East Rew (Vic.)
Sir,
My union, the Federated Engine
Drivers and Firemen’s Association, was
one of the targets for Mr Santamaria’s
smear campaign when he visited Tas-
mania last June, including the FED&FA
among a number of Tasmanian unions
“under Communist influence”. But he
cunningly laid low when challenged in
the Press as to the truth of his charge.
One of his followers tried to twist the
context of the charge, but when proved
wrong and asked for an apology none
was forthcoming.
This is typical of what could happen
all over Australia. But I have every
confidence that the good sense of the
average Australian will eventually see
this movement for what it is and treat
it with the contempt it actually deserves.
S. RICHARDSON,
State President,
Tasmanian Branch, FED&FA
Burnie (las.).
Sir,
Even if the DLP should survive to
play some useful role in the future its
chances ,of exercising some kind of
corrective or “steering” control over the
ALP would appear to be dim indeed at
this stage. In fact, one must question
very seriously whether even in 1955 and
1958 it really was the DLP, rather than
a new and monolithic middle-class con-
formism born, of affluence, hire purchase
and buoyant overseas markets, which
kept the ALP out of office. However
that may be, the picture is now clear
enough. At this stage the DLP has no
more nuisance value to the ALP than
a plague of fleas to a man dying of
cholera. It is more than an academic
possibility that herein we have the reason
for Mr Santamaria’s becoming, as Mr
Coleman says, “Politically more con-
ciliatory.”
R. J. THOMSON
Epping (NSW).
Sir,
“The Santamaria Story” moves me to
make three comments. First, as a Catho-
lic I object to Mr Santamaria’s horse-
trading of the Catholic Church to bolster
his own weird brand of politics. The
blatant use of the office of Archbishop
Mannix by Mr Santamaria was probably
the worst blow the Catholic Church has
received in this country. The only
figure that emerges of similar type to
Mr Santamaria is the late Senator
McCarthy.
Second, as an Australian enjoying the
privileges of democracy I abhor the neo-
fascist activities of this demagogue.
Third, as a supporter of the ALP,
why should the ALP come to terms with
a Santamaria-dominated DLP that de
facto keeps the Liberals and capitalists
cosy in the seats of power and gross
wealth?
G. REYNOLDS
Sydney (NSW).
HEAD MASTERS
Sir,
R. Mullins (8/2/64) raises a point of
discrimination (£5OO-£lOOO p.a. worth
of discrimination) between head masters
within the very small area of metropoli-
tan Melbourne. Is there any reason
why children who live outside the “top”
class areas should be “head mastered” at
a two-third rate? Is there any reason
why some pupils should be getting 4th
class lessons from 4th class teachers at
4th class pay rates while other pupils
get special lessons from special teachers
at special pay rates?
Do we expect 4th class citizens to
pay 4th class fees to a 4th class physi-
cian for a 4th class consultation? Isn’t
the application of public service classi-
fications to the teaching profession as
crazy as their application would be to
doctors, dentists and lawyers working
for the Government?
J. G. O’LEARY
Honorary Secretary,
Affiliated Teachers’ Union.
Melbourne (Vic.).


ssa»«swi
!■’: V ~ V f -''- v 1
■Ff *9
■ ' yjgig§3
, ' nirfSlP' li
:
: .
V. :
: :
' ■■■.■ ■ v ;: -
>z£s
»
Hi
: V; : : t
■ 1; : v.. :;
■n
'-'y’. -/V ".- • •'•
S l ■
»il
ifc
■' ;■;■■
:a;i
PM
■
Just today, this Sydney sales team
collected orders In Cootamundra,
Wagga and Dubbo-a 640 mile trip...
Full cost in this Cessna £26/10/-
This morning, at 8 a.m., this
Cessna 182, with two company sales
representatives aboard, took off from
Sydney and flew 240 miles to Wagga,
arriving there at 9.45 a.m. During
the next two hours the salesmen con-
tacted their Company’s clients in this
city and then flew 50 miles (20
minutes’ flying) to Cootamundra.
More business was transacted here,
followed by a leisurely lunch with
clients. At 2 p.m. the Cessna flew
to Dubbo, 150 miles north, landing
there at 3 p.m. Orders were collected
from two clients and, with the day’s
business finalised, the Cessna returned
to Sydney. Time: 6 p.m.!
There is nothing theoretical about
this example . . . Cessna can and
does perform that kind of work day
after day at a lower-than-car cost of
lOd. per mile (everything mainten-
ance, depreciation, the lot!).
Let us prove to you how one Cessna
can do the work of many car-driving
salesmen and do it far more efficiently,
for far less cost. Let us show you
how Cessna can save you hundreds,
perhaps thousands of pounds per
annum. R 7
INTERESTED?
Ask your secretary to mail this advertise-
ment to us on your letterhead. Or tele-
phone, and our representative will call.
REX AVIATION LIMITED
P.O. Box 51, Bankstown, N.S.W.
Tel, 70-0661 and at
BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Rural Aviation Limited,
New Plymouth, NEW ZEALAND
r-..
3
sna
DEFENCE
Sir,
Your recent coverage of the defence
problems of Australia was a most
excellent piece of work. As a former
member of the staff of the Secretary
of Defence of the US and a present
member of the RAAC, CMF, I found
it most interesting and the proposals
promising and realistic. The comments
on the Pentropic organisation, the
Permanent Instant Reserve, and the
Army’s role in SE-Asia were particularly
trenchant.
If I may be allowed one small quibble
-—the reference to the “Papuan Infantry
Regiment”; I believe the correct title
is the Pacific Islands Regiment.
One can only wish that more such
excellent coverage of the defence
problems faced by Australia were to be
found in other publications, particularly
the popular ones.
LEWIS EVANS
Balwyn (Vic.).
MIDDLE EAST MARKETS
Sir,
I have only just become a reader of
The Bulletin, and I am sorry that I
did not know of its existence when 1 first
entered Australia about three years ago.
I would have benefited from its wisdom
sooner.
In your issues of January 25 and
February 8, in the Business and Finance
section, I read with interest that con-
sideration was being given to the possi-
bilities of increasing The export of Aus-
tralian goods to the Middle East and
Malaysia. For many years 1 resided in
the Red Sea and Persian Gulf areas of
Arabia and knew many of the heads of
big businesses personally, having worked
for some of them. Before residing in
the Middle East I spent about seven
years in what is now called Malaysia.
I can read, write and speak both Arabic
and Malayan. Consequently I feel that
with my knowledge of the languages,
the people and the customs, I would be
a valuable asset to any Australian ex-
porter or group of exporters desiring to
open up contacts in the Middle East.
I feel that I would be doing Australia
a greater service by promoting the sales
of her goods abroad than by residing in
the country and drawing a weekly sum
of £l2 7s. 6d. by means of a Social
Service cheque, which is intended to
keep my family and myself in health
and happiness.
Before entering Australia, I had held
supervisory posts in Arabian, British,
Dutch and American organisations and
enterprises. I have excellent references
from all of these.
A. M. ALKAMRAIKHI
2 Port Stephens Street,
Raymond Terrace (NSW).


REVIEWS
TELEVISION
A Feast of Turkeys
The horrors of Australian TV " Variety ”
By FRANK ROBERTS
Studio A. Channel 7. Sydney.
The Noel Ferrier Show. Channel 9.
Sydney.
Project ’64. Channel 9. Sydney.
Encounter. Channel 7. Sydney.
year television pushes new variety
comperes in front of its cameras,
with loud fanfares. And for a while the
poor fellows tell bad jokes, leer, grimace,
chatter, sing, and keep their fingers
crossed until it’s time for them to be
bundled off stage. The procedure is
hard on the briefly limelighted and it is
no picnic for the viewers. It also brings
out the vinegar in critics, who really
would prefer toasting a success to roast-
ing a turkey.
Which brings us to the new “Studio
A”, compered by a willing lad from the
British Isles named Terry O'Neill,
successor to Digby Wolfe, John Laws,
and the Le Gardes. The show has de-
clined in quality with each change of
compere until now it is an hour better
left undescribed in case you have been
lucky enough to miss it.
The alleged comedy in “Studio A” is
not nearly amusing enough for a national
television show, but even it has a peer
in a gruesome affair called “Sunnyside
Up”, a variety show which has been
running for some time in other States,
for reasons I can't imagine. In Sydney
it has all the survival chances of a scrap
of butter on a hot griddle.
Its fault is humor that failed to raise
much of a laugh 30 years ago in subur-
ban vaudeville houses. At the other end
of the Risible Scale is another Melbourne
effort, “The Noel Ferrier Show”, which
seems to be written mostly for astro-
nauts. It has a brand of intellectual
humor, too cold and rarefied, without the
belly laugh that most of us down here
demand. Barry Humphries achieved it.
Noel Ferrier and his writer, Jeff Under-
hill, are missing it by attempting to be
just that much too clever.
The Ferrier Show does have one
advantage—a central character who can
be funny, who is polished, who shows
some wit. He misses often, because the
targets are thin. He is too self assured
for a man whose aim is still imperfect.
But he is the kind of glue a variety
show needs to prevent it falling to pieces.
With more breadth and earth, the show
and Ferrier could survive the year.
There are not many Ferriers around.
There are too many Terry O’Neills. For
what it’s worth, I suggest that a producer
who finds a man of any promise might
refrain from hurling him in front of the
cameras at the first opportunity. He
might, instead, find him a couple of
writers, and a good director, and let
them work together without cameras for
a few months, remembering it takes years
to shape a talent.
This would cost, but so does a show
which fails. That costs goodwill, and
it is time to consider how much such
turkeys as “Sunnyside Up” and Rob
E.G.’s “Surf Sound” will be remembered
when there’s a new channel number on
the dial.
A CCORDING to Mr King of the London
“Daily Mirror”, the public has no
real opinion on anything. If ours tolerates
“Sunnyside Up” and “Studio A”, and an
unreformed “Ferrier Show”, I will be-
lieve him. The less sceptical producers
of Channel 9's first documentary on
Communist China seemed to accept the
notion completely, and wrote a com-
mentary designed to ensure that no
one among us could fail to miss
the point that everything in that country’s
life has a background of indoctrination
and propaganda.
It was a fine documentary. I could
see nothing in it that would lead any
Australian to defect, or envy the Chinese
way of life. There was much in it
reminiscent of Hitler parades, but this
was not mentioned. A shot of religious
groups, including nuns, was shown almost
without comment, although it could have
been pointed out that the Catholics do
not exactly have freedom in Communist
China. But we were told, for instance,
that a great carnival balloon carried a
propaganda message. So did walls,
gates, newspapers and everything else
one would expect to, in this valuable
filmed encounter with the mainland
Chinese.
An “Encounter” of another kind
showed up on Channel 7 with
John Pringle making guesses at phases
of Dr Coombs’ life story, and the Doctor
correcting him on all points. It seemed
a strange way to elicit a man’s story,
and to make things even less interesting
it was conducted in the “ignore the
audience, it isn’t there” style of inter-
viewing. A brief “Encounter”, I predict,
if these faults continue.
Private Eyewash
77 Sunset Strip. Channel 7.
Hawaiian Eye. Channel 9.
The Saint. Channel 7.
Burke’s Law. Channel 9.
Arrest and Trial. Channel 7.
Cain’s Hundred. Channel 9.
Route 66. Channel 2.
The Avengers. Channel 2.
do not know where the western
started; the family situation comedy
probably goes back to “Father Knows
Best"; and Kildare et al must pay tribute
to “Ben Casey”. But there can be no
doubt that the private eye owes his
present existence to the oh-so-slick Mr
Craig Stevens’ “Peter Gunn”. For “Peter
Gunn” remains the norm from which the
ever-multiplying private eye series some-
times deviate sufficiently to justify them-
selves, but more often slavishly copy,
and consequently go as quickly as they
come.
Fashionable, indestructible, hard
drinking and high living, wooing the
endless parade of starlets and shooting
the regular parade of hoods and deviates,
“Peter Gunn” and sons perpetuate the
Blake Edwards creation of the 1950 s
with increasing flair and fluctuating
credibility. “Peter Gunn” himself is no
longer with us, but his absence is in
name only. Bailey and Spencer of “77
Sunset Strip”, the bright young boys of
“Surfside Six”, the ageing surfies of
“Hawaiian Eye”, the watered-down
Simon Templar of “The Saint”, all con-
solidate the myth. Sometimes they have
official status, like the dilettante Amos
Burke of “Burke's Law”, Ben Gazarra in
“Arrest and Trial”, or the tight-lipped
Citizen Cain of “Cain's Hundred”. Some-
times they are private eyes in fact if
not in name, like the Good Samaritan
duo of “Route 66”, the hard-fisted
journalist of “Hong Kong'’, or England’s
slightly precious contribution, John
Steed of “The Avengers”. But whatever


the jazzy graphics may call them, they
are all variations on a well-worn theme,
riding under the same flag. Only Mike
Hammer stands some way apart for
he is such an exaggeration he is barely
recognisable.
Out of these continuing, if only slight,
metamorphoses on the “Peter Gunn”
image a distinct folk-hero has emerged.
Private eyes have a uniform morality of
deep-down goodness beneath the flip-
pantly charming manner and heroically
unprincipled methods. They are good
guys, they are tough and they are
reliable. They are (usually) aggressively
promiscuous, or at least flirtatious but,
implicitly, they love their mums and
respect the vows. They are idealistic
(you couldn’t buy them off for love nor
money, and they are repeatedly offered
both) and, most important, whether it
takes them thirty minutes or an hour,
and it recently took Efrem Zimbalist
Jnr. five, they never fail.
Variations, then, on a theme. It is
the extent and the kind of variation that
is the operative factor, telling whether a
show will succeed or fail. The conven-
tions must be observed, but there must
be a distinguishing addition, there must
be a gimmick. The hero of “Hong Kong”
was extraordinarily violent. “Hawaiian
Eye” had a new backdrop (although the
society was identical), and “Burke’s Law”
is so veneered and so outlandish it is
almost a send-up. If there is any general
change in the Gunn prototype, it is in
the increasing intelligence, erudition, and
aesthetic appreciation the private eye is
quietly acquiring. Gunn never had Van
Goghs on the wall as they do at the
Sunset Strip address, and he would cer-
tainly never have made the priceless
observation the earnest young detective
in “Naked City” once made: “This case
is beginning to remind me of Dante’s
Divine Comedy.”
WILLIAM DANIELS.
FILMS
Tension
Seven Days in May. Director, John
Frankenheimer. Prince Edward
Theatre. Sydney.
/Autside the White House on a hot May
afternoon, a clash, shot with hand-
held camera, between rival demonstra-
tors: President Jordan Lyman has just
declared a nuclear disarmament treaty
with Russia, and the militarists and
Lymanites are already at each others’
throats. The fanatical General Scott plans
to overthrow the existing Government
and set up in its place a military junta,
bent on an aggressive policy which may
well lead to a hot war. The plot, un-
covered by initially incredulous advisers
to the President, is thwarted at the last
minute: a sequence in which the defeated
Scott is burned to death in an accident
to his car after he leaves the White House
has been cut from the released print.
The director of “Seven Days in May”,
John Frankenheimer, is obviously fascin-
ated by the quasi-political fantasy in
which the supposedly stable structure of
American democracy is suddenly threat-
ened; his last film, “The Manchurian
Candidate”, dealt with an attempted seiz-
ure of government by Communists mas-
querading as their opposites, while here
Scott is shown to be an egomaniac pre-
tending to be a super-patriot representing
a mysterious organisation known as
ECOMCON. The similarity of the two
films is striking, but the style of approach
is very different (in the earlier film ellip-
tical and mannered, here terse and
straightforward) suggesting that Franken-
heimer is still working out an individual
approach to the medium, or perhaps that
he is dependent on the individual styles
of his script writers. His earlier pictures,
“The Young Stranger”, “The Young
Savages” and “All Fall Down” were
mainly concerned with examining, sym-
pathetically and unromantically, the
feelings of adolescence, and a light, ironi-
cal, sometimes lyrical talent seemed to be
emerging. Now the poetry has gone, and
a hard, dynamic journalism has taken its
place. An uneven craftsman, at his
strongest in “All Fall Down” and “Seven
Days in May” and technically weakest in
“Birdman of Alcatraz”, Frankenheimer
hasn’t yet staked more than a tentative
claim to be considered an artist.
Rod Serling’s script for “Seven Days
in May”, is, as one might expect, a highly
accomplished piece of machinery, super-
ficial and expertly calculated. Its rare
attempts at eloquence —an ill-advised
patriotic speech by the President, some
uncomfortably wordy senatorial ex-
changes—fail to come off. The main
strength of the film lies in the direction
of the actors, most notably of the per-
formances of Burt Lancaster as Scott and
of Fredric March, cast in his familiar
but very watchable role of decent-think-
ing neurotic as the President. Edmond
O'Brien as a Georgia senator and an un-
named bit player as a treacherous admiral
are also very serviceable. Crisply cut,
the film mounts with admirable pace to
its high point of tension in the brilliantly
written, shot and directed confrontation
between Lyman and Scott in the Presi-
dential study. Here the performances of
the stars are at their best and Lancaster,
insolently scoffing at the President’s
weedy liberalism, achieves a memorable
intensity seldom found elsewhere in the
film. Technically, the production leaves
little to be desired, and the veteran Ferris
Webster's tight editing, Ellsworth Fred-
rick’s fluent camerawork, and Gary
Odell’s sets (particularly of the White
House) give the film a continually pleas-
ing finish.
CHARLES HIGHAM
Winning Number
Any Number Can Win. Director,
Henri Verneuil. St James Theatre.
Sydney.
A ustralian audiences are lucky in
* ri ‘ having been able to insist that
foreign films of quality be screened here
in subtitled, not dubbed, versions. We
are reminded just how lucky we are when
for one reason or another the odd
foreign-language film does turn up with
superimposed English (or more likely
American) voices.
Henri Verneuil’s “Any Number Can
Win”, as released here by MGM, has
been treated to a relatively skilful job of
dubbing, considered simply as a techni-
cal exercise, but it still does not escape
the impression of amateurishness that
touches all dubbed films.
This is a misfortune, because in nearly
every other respect “Any Number Can
Win” is professional to the last detail.
It is a beautifully constructed classical
crime film in the pattern of John
Huston’s “The Asphalt Jungle”; although
the pattern has been repeated many
other times I cannot recall another film
apart from these two in which it has
been executed with such skill.
The pattern is this: the master crook
plans an elaborate robbery, involving an
exact timetable and the interlocking of
several carefully calculated operations;
the accomplices are chosen, the ground-
work prepared; as the tension of waiting
grows, there is conflict among the mem-
bers of the gang; when the time comes
the odd detail goes wrong and the intri-
cate plan has to give way to desperate
improvisation; climax, anticlimax and the
triumph of poetic justice.
In “Any Number Can Win” the chief
of operations is a dour old jailbird (play-
ed by Jean Gabin) determined to make
a last killing so that he can retire to a
sheep farm in Australia; his target is a
luxurious Riviera casino; his chief ac-
complice (Alain Delon) is a young cri-
minal personable enough to pass as one
of the patrons of the establishment and
lithe enough to make a hair-raising
journey through skylights and air-condi-
tioning ducts in order to reach the
strongroom at the precise moment that
the manager and his accountants, with
safe unlocked and alarms switched off,
are checking the take.
But of couse it doesn't work as plan-
ned. There is the backstage party that
won’t break up, delaying the accomplice’s
ascent to the rooftop; the air-conditioning
is turned on at full blast just as he is try-


ing to slither along the duct; the whole
thing becomes a frantic race to meet the
timetable.
Verneuil unrolls the story at a deli-
berate, unforced pace, but always with a
sure enough sense of timing to prevent
attention from slipping. Unhappily the
effect of calculated understatement is
partly offset by the obvious and over-
stated musical background, which fills
the ears with melodrama at moments
when the effect should be one of still and
stealthy tension.
Gabin, at an advantage in that he
evidently has done his own dubbing,
creates the most rounded character in
the cast, a portrait of sombre, anti-social
singlemindedness. Delon, with dark
good looks and an insolent slouch, physi-
cally fits the role of the young delinquent;
the voice that speaks his lines is obvi-
ously not his own.
MARTIN LONG
ART
Thirty
Painters
Georges Invitation Prize. Georges
Gallery. Melbourne.
Phillip Sutton. Gallery A. Mel-
bourne.
nPms year’s field in the Georges Prize
has been pruned to about thirty and
no restriction has been put on the subject
of the painting. The money arrange-
ments are the same: £750 first prize, £250
second prize and £5O commendation
prize for a young painter. It is still
Melbourne’s largest prize, and this year
it created a tense atmosphere somewhat
akin to that of the Rubinstein judging
in Sydney. As an added attraction the
judges this year (Alan McCulloch, Daniel
Thomas and Gertrude Langer) were
“advised” by James Johnson Sweeney,
Director of the Huston Museum of
Fine Arts and formerly of the Guggen-
heim Museum, New York. His presence
produced no great surprises, for the three
awards went, in descending order, to
Leonard French, Carl Plate and Jan
Senbergs.
Let me add at once that although the
decisions are not surprising I do not
altogether agree with them. French’s
painting with its awkward serpentine out-
line around a tight square belongs to
my mind among his less successful works
of similar construction, but it was com-
plemented by an especially fine drawing,
and the two together undoubtedly earned
him the prize. Even so he was strongly
challenged, particularly I think by
Lancely and Reddington, neither of
whom got anything. The two minor
prizes could as well have gone to several
others. All this could, of course, simply
mean that it is a good exhibition, but
I believe it is also an argument for not
giving first, second and third prizes.
Certainly no one will begrudge the
awards to these three painters, but it
is a pity to see good painters miss out,
and it could be avoided.
The Georges Prize is an ambitious
one, and it seems to have rapidly gained
some prestige. The present exhibition
is better than last year’s mainly because
subject restrictions were dropped. It has
now, I think, the chance to avoid the
difficulties and indignities of close com-
petition. Naturally with limited finance
the number of prizes will always be
restricted, but it would be heartening to
see the judges given more discretion in
distributing the available money and in
making commendations to buyers. This
would, too, be more consistent with an
Invitation Prize, which assumes to some
extent at least that any entrant is a worthy
painter.
Unfortunately the number of com-
petitors is still too large—we apparently
cannot raise thirty painters of real merit
to compete for a prize. The present
collection could be cut below twenty
without serious loss. And it is still
exclusively a painting prize. I would
much rather see a highly selective show
of painters with prints and drawings
admissible as entries along with a few
of the sculptors of standing. On recent
performances Klippel and Norma Red-
path would give all of these painters a
severe test.
Phillip Sutton’s seven paintings at
Gallery A are reminiscent of the Good
Life in some fading Mediterranean hide-
out, where the color is bright but tre-
mulous and the women beautiful but
fleshy. It is delightful painting, every gay
splash of it. Katie Nude especially is a
charmer. The only person in the world
who seems to worry about who’s behind
his shoulder is the painter himself, red
and self-conscious in a wonderfully in-
cisive self-portrait.
BILL HANNAN
Ceramics
Takeichi Kawai. Hungry Horse Art
Gallery. Sydney.
John Chappell. Macquarie Galleries.
Sydney.
Les Blakebrough. Macquarie Gal-
leries. Sydney.
/\ne thing Japanese collectors take very
seriously is a good piece of pottery;
their masters are celebrated, some enjoy
world-wide reputations but above all the
art ranks with paintings or sculpture on
equal terms.
No mass-produced object can fulfil
the demands of traditional tea cere-
monial, Ikebana or sophisticated decor,
and whatever Hamada, Yanagi and
Takeichi’s famous uncle and teacher
Kanjiro Kawai envisaged as the role of
the craftsman-potter in the Folk Craft
Movement they founded, all have
emerged as virtuosi of distinctive per-
sonality.
As Gropius observed some time ago,
“It (Japan) still shows that mark of deep
and genuine culture, a standard of form
so broad that it admits infinite variety.”
This standard, so attractive to contem-
porary as well as traditional taste, in-
forms the best pottery produced within
the orbit of the Folk Craft Movement.
It animates the astonishing inventiveness
of Takeichi Kawai’s pottery at the
Hungry Horse Art Gallery.
Behind the links with Chinese and
Korean techniques and all the throwing
skills, Kawai has reached a formal
mastery which arrests and provokes the
imagination. The vividness of this could,
for instance, be paralleled by a show of
Picasso's drawings where the same ele-
ment of surprise and discovery domi-
nates.
However, Kawai bears to foreign
imitators the same relation that the real
Zen has to its cappucino corruptions
outside Japan and to plunge into a room
full of his work is to enter a new world,
self-sufficient as only an artist who has
freed himself of technical limitation can
create.
If the forms themselves with their
seemingly endless range carry the weight
of this effect, the superlative, varied and
seductive appeal of the glazes, the brush-
work, at times calligraphic, at others
broadly dragged or spattered, serves to
fuse the utmost calculation with the
maximum spontaneity. The color range,
something not seen here before, is a
kind of signature to the work of one of
Japan’s most robust and creative minds.
What was intended originally to be
a smallish one-man show has for John
Chappell become, since his recent un-
timely death in his early thirties, his
farewell. His experience as pupil of
Japanese potters, like Kawai, extended
over several years which enabled him
thoroughly to assimilate what he had
learned. The resulting synthesis reveals
a potter of distinguished talent, neither
wholly Eastern nor Western in attitude
but bringing to a quietly assertive range
of form the technical skills of both
worlds. Les Blakebrough, on the other
hand, stretches the power of absorption
to astonishing lengths as he takes up the
shapes, techniques and qualities of each
pottery centre from Onda to Kyoto
which he visited. Some pieces show
great vigor, yet one awaits Mr Blake-
brough's leap into full maturity when he
makes all this rich experience work for
him.
JOHN HENSHAW


RED PAGE
The Great Expatriates
Modern authors in search of isolation
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Writers at Work, No. 2. Edited by
George Plimpton. . Seeker & War-
burg. 375. 3d.
Tt was the late Van Wyck Brooks, in-
troducer of this second anthology of
“Paris Review” interviews with famous
writers, who first made his compatriots
proud of their literary destiny, scotched
Henry James for evasiveness in embracing
European culture, and discovered in Walt
Whitman a symbol of American native
vigor. The battle Brooks fought has now
been won, and I doubt if many writers
across the Pacific would today question
that their nation’s writing stands equal
with anything Europe can offer. Most,
in fact, have gone a step further and have
lost their self-consciousness, so that to-
gether with the best writers of England
and France they belong to a community
of letters which has no headquarters and
to which people living in California and
the Camargue can equally belong.
Freed from the shackles of aggressive
nationalism or self-denigrating provin-
cialism, the writers of the European-
American cultural community are fre-
quently exiles by choice, and these inter-
viewed in this book are characteristic
of the new cosmopolitanism. Mary
McCarthy is interviewed in Paris, Durrell
in the Midi, Pound in Italy, Eliot (a life-
long exile) in London, Aldous Huxley in
Hollywood, and Hemingway in Cuba.
Santa Monica, the beautiful suburb by
the sea not far from Los Angeles, houses
Isherwood, Gavin Lambert and Gerald
Heard. J. P. Donleavy has lived in the
Isle of Man, and the list could be
extended to a catalogue. “The Paris
Review’s” very name suggests exile, and
the magazine, uneasily pretentious and
valuable almost exclusively for these
justly celebrated interviews, began under
the auspices of a gaggle of well-to-do
young American expatriates in the
Valhalla of all good dead Americans. It
is currently published in New York.
Cohesiveness is the last thing one
would expect to find in a book like this.
Its fascination lies in its variety, its
bringing together of widely variant view-
points from the mannered irony of a
Katherine Anne Porter to the grassroots
honesty of a Robert Frost. One tends at
first to go to the writers one most admires
(for me here. Porter, Frost, Robert
Lowell) to discover the origins of their
work, the impulses which have driven
them and the central force which has
pushed them forward through a lifetime
of work and sacrifice. And from these
writers, and those Pound, Marianne
Moore, Henry Miller, Lawrence Durrell,
Henry Green, with whom I am person-
ally least happy one does get a re-
markable consistency of approach, en-
abling one to see what it is that compels
a writer forward in the world.
Firstly one might say there is a quality
of selfishness, of ruthlessness, without
which most artists would fall by the way-
side. Many of these writers speak of a
stripping away of inessentials, of the
daily clutter which entangles the man in
the street, and of a determined attempt
to make order out of chaos, to narrow
down the focus to a particular scene or
person with a brutal removal of every-
thing which might sully that focus.
Complete professionalism—the sense that
good work must be paid for not only
with the writer’s blood but with the
publisher’s money—is also an essential.
The amateur, the “poetry lover,” the
fuddy-duddy and the “nice” have no
business to bother themselves with any-
thing more artistically taxing than tatting.
Tn both this and the first volume of
A interviews, there is often an under-
lying feeling that life outside of art is
meaningless and confused, that art exists
to shape and give meaning not only to
life as a whole, but to the artist’s life. It
is only a step further to that arrogance
which makes an artist assume he is the
only man, that the other professionals
whom society prefers—doctors, lawyers,
barristers —are in some way rather crass
by comparison, serving the public's needs
(at least ostensibly) while failing to
elevate its standards or make sense of
its indulgences. Writers, it is well known,
are hard to get on with, and the public
is probably quite right to regard them
as freaks or enemies if they have actual
talent (one excludes the popular author
who is also not an artist) or as readable
but suspect purveyors of “filth” (Henry
Miller, D. H. Lawrence, Joyce, and now
improbably Mary McCarthy). The
arrogance, the irony, and the egocen-
tricity of many major writers may be
intolerable, but they are qualities as
necessary to him as predatoriness is to
the salesman.
Katherine Anne Porter expertly puts
her finger on the pulse when she talks
of writing to her sister saying she wanted
glory (“I don’t quite know what I meant
by that now, but it was something
different from fame or success or wealth.
I know that I wanted to be a good writer,
a good artist.”) She precisely emphasises
the necessary loneliness of the calling,
and of the courage needed to follow it:
“It is an act of faith. But one of the
marks of a gift is to have the courage
for it.-If you haven’t the courage, it’s
just too bad. You’ll fail, just as people
with lack of courage in other vocations
and walks of life fail . . . I’ve never
belonged to a group or huddle of any
kind. You cannot be an artist and work
collectively.” And she adds splendidly,
in answer to a question why she didn’t
expatriate herself to Europe in the usual
Twenties manner: “I would have been
smothered—completely disgusted and re-
volted —by the goings-on in Europe. Even
now when I think of the twenties and
the legend that has grown up about them
I think it was a horrible time: shallow
and trivial and silly.”
Alone, determined and following an
interior vision with relentless honesty,
Katherine Anne Porter has emerged as
one of the great writers of our time.
The late Aldous Huxley’s action in
leaving London and heading out into the
Californian “desert” seems to me equally
the action of an artist. Asked what makes
the writer different from other people,
he says: “Well one has the urge, first
of all, to order the facts one observes
and to give meaning to life; and along
with that goes the love of words for their
own sake and a desire to manipulate
them ... I don’t believe for a moment
that creativity is a neurotic symptom.
On the contrary, the neurotic who
succeeds as an artist has had to overcome
a tremendous handicap. He creates in
spite of his neurosis, not because of it.”
An emphasis on the necessity of
physical and spiritual health crops up
frequently in these pages. There is some-
thing of the ascetic in even the most
sensual of these artists, a desire to live
simply and in isolation, and to work
out a line of thinking, a discipline, in
terms made by the author himself. In
Australia, the isolation and firm follow-
ing of a line to be found in two of our
major artists, Patrick White and Judith
Wright, at once places them in this
company of “Writers at Work”. Durrell in
the Midi, Isherwooa and Lambert in
Santa Monica, Henry Miller in Big Sur
and Los Angeles, Huxley in Hollywood,
Hemingway in Cuba, White and Wright
in Australia ... all are far from the
centres, but in their remoteness they have
gone to the centre of the modern con-
sciousness and have given it light.


I
PRESS CLIPPINGS
WILL TELL YOU
Keep fully informed by letting us
supply you, or your office, with
press clippings on any subject in
which you are interested.
We offer a complete coverage of
newspapers and magazines, all
States, city and country. This
press clipping service enables you
to keep a complete tab on any
matter—your company, trade or
profession, financial news, com-
pany reports, publicity mentions,
new industries, political . and
editorial mentions, publicity
checks, press releases, sales
leads, competitors' news.
We will supply clippings on
any subject you may care
to specify. 'Phone us or
write on your letter head
for full information.
A.N.Z. PRESS CLIPPING SERVICE,
G.P.O. BOX 1730, SYDNEY. 31-6740
AUTHORS
invited submit MSS all types
(including poems) for book
publication. Reasonable terms.
Stockwell Ltd., Ilfracombe,
England. (Established 1898.)
Looking
Northward
A Thousand Miles Away. A History
of North Queensland. G. C. Bolton.
Jacaranda Press and ANU. 495. 6d.
Queenslander who knew his North
in the days before 1920 reads this
book by Dr G. C. Bolton with some
sense of shock, since he finds himself
acquainted with most of the leading
characters in it, many of whom were as
familiar to him as the Post Office clock;
this despite the fact that their lives and
deeds were main ingredients not only in
part of the history of the thriving com-
munity of North Queensland but in the
whold of it up to the end of World
War I.
Before 1860 there was virtually no
North Queensland as a civilised com-
munity, a fact which it is difficult to
believe after a tour of the smiling cane-
fields, the colorful sugar mills, the
flourishing cities of Townsville, Cairns,
Mackay, with rejuvenated Ingham and
Innisfail. All are now infused with
civilised comfort, “culture,” and nuclear-
age progress, fine roads, fine air services,
famous tourist resorts and only two hours
or so away from Brisbane.
The age to which Dr Bolton gives his
attention has vanished, but the
flowers are fresh on its grave. To any-
body who sat many a Sunday afternoon
at his home at “Mallow” at the feet of
kindly Sir Robert Philp, one of the
earliest builders of Townsville, and James
Forsyth, and who traversed the gold-
fields and the copperfields of the North
in the last flush of their heyday, who
knew men who had driven the first herds
to Cape York and explored the Penin-
sula, and pioneered the team routes to
the North-West, the picture of history
as presented by Dr Bolton seems
academic, rather than essential. Yet the
book is the best thing of its sort,
not only about North Queensland but
about Queensland as a whole. It has
been carefully researched and thoroughly
documented and is an honest and pains-
taking job. But it lacks the riotous
zest of the reality. It fails to personalise
history as it needs to be personalised to
give the true picture of what happened
between the year 1860 when my
mother was born—and the year 1920
when she had lived only two-thirds of
her life.
Leaving out the Wild West of America
and Lambing Flat and The Klondike
there was probably never so many and
various a crowd of outstanding and
raffish adventurers as North Queensland
contained or maintained in those two
human generations, against a background
of steadying commercial and pastoral
and mining entrepreneurs of the Burns,
Philp, John Moffatt, Dalrymple breeds.
Many of them Dr Bolton does not
even mention—men such as F. C. Urqu-
hart of the Black Police, Embley, Cuth-
bert of Mt Cuthbert who did so much
to explore and advertise for the benefit
of a future generation the great mineral
fields behind Cloncurry and around Mt
Isa district. Men like James Love,
Mackay of Port Mackay and Figtree,
Dr Jack Hamilton appear only as
shadowy figures. What is a history of
North Queensland without the name of
Edkins, or of Archie Meston, the tall
dapper, cravated beau of the North,
waxed moustached and carrying his gold-
headed cane as he played Homer to the
culture of the primitive?
Where is Kuropatkin Murphy, MLA,
(whom Low immortalised exactly as he
was), Arthur Morgan’s “majority of one”
whose breathless ride from Croydon by
horse and buggy, train and steam held
Queensland spellbound during the
Russo-Japanese War while in Brisbane
the Government stonewalled night and
day on a no-confidence motion against
the coming of their savior, looking more
like G. K. Chesterton than Paul Revere:
In this Port Arthur-Morgan fight
They watch for Croydon’s beacon
light.
The General orders, “Hold your drums
Till Kuropatkin Murphy comes!
Keep on your war of words and wits,
We’ll give those Philpian foemen fits
When Murphy comes!
Where, oh, where are all the rest of
the great characters of the generations?
Where is Postjostler Carr Boyd? Where
is Kerosene Kate, Queen of the Proser-
pine?
Dr Bolton has made a chaste and
colorable picture of the tropic egg before
it produced the chicken of modern
northern civilisation, but one looks in
vain for much of the salt and pepper
that went with it. “Bonanza” would
look tame beside some of the raffish
reality of the generation which he has
essayed to make his historical own.
M. H. ELLIS
Fiendish
Brightness
Don Renato: An Ideal Content.
Frederick Rolfe. Chatto & Windus.
375. 3d.
England pro-
duced more than its fair share of
literary eccentrics. Few can have led
stranger lives than Frederick William
Rolfe, also known as Baron Corvo.
Rolfe was born in 1860, and left
home in 1875 at the age of 15.
He supported himself for ten years
as a school teacher until, making
a sudden decision to become a Roman
Catholic, he presented himself as a
candidate for the priesthood. He had in
fact completed more than a year of his
training before he was expelled from the
Scots College in Rome. He returned to
England, and passed the next six years
in a variety of jobs and often in abject
poverty. After some attempts at painting,
he achieved his first real success as a
creative artist with some short stories
contributed to the Yellow Book in the
early 1890 s. He now committed him-
self to a career in literature; none of his
books, however, brought him the material
success he hoped for. In 1908 he went
for a holiday to Venice and, refusing
all entreaties to return to England, stayed
there until his death in October, 1913.
In 1934 Rolfe’s life was made the
subject of a celebrated biography, A. J.
A. Symons’ “The Quest for Corvo”.
Yet Rolfe’s career had another, and per-
haps even more interesting, chronicler:
Rolfe himself. In “The Quest” Symons
was able to track down most of the facts
in the many mysterious and bizarre in-
cidents which sprinkled his subject’s life,
and to assemble them into a convincing
psychological interpretation. But he
could not reveal as directly as the writer
himself the fantasy existence which
lay underneath the observable behavior.
In a series of novels which are the most
thinly veiled (and significantly distorted)
of autobiographies Rolfe laid bare the
needs which drove him to his isolation.


WRITE STORIES
SUCCESSFULLY
Stott's can train YOU
Many Stott students pay for their Course
before completing it.
Stott students are taught how to write stories
that sell and are advised by the College of
the names and addresses of reputable Literary
Agents in various countries who may be
trusted to handle Students' MSS to the best
advantage. If YOU have a story to tell,
learn how to tell it. The lucrative field of
Authorship is waiting to pay well for good
work.
Stolls Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 383 George
Street, Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
45 Gillis Street, Adelaide; 22 Howard Street,
Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
NAME
ADDRESS
AGE
B 664
Probably the best known is “Hadrian the
Seventh”, the story of George Arthur
Rose, a spoiled English priest who is
given belated recognition and elected to
the Papacy. The image of the spoiled
priest is central to understanding Rolfe’s
life, while the fantasy of wearing the
triple crown is a familiar dream of power
given a highly personal twist.
It was in the novels which deal with
Nicholas Crabbe that Rolfe dealt most
directly and uncritically with his own life.
One of them, “Nicholas Crabbe: Or, The
One and the Many”, was so libellous at
the expense of his contemporaries that
its publication was delayed until 1958.
Crabbe, like his creator, enjoyed an
enormously developed talent for insult
and invective. He also possessed a re-
markably high opinion of his own
powers, a conceit and an overbearing ar-
rogance that alienated everybody who
ever tried to help him. “The Desire and
Pursuit of the Whole” furnishes further
evidence of the psychological patterns
underlying Rolfe’s career. Crabbe is now
in Venice, where he conducts a strange
love affair with a seventeen-year-old girl,
who looks very much like a boy and
who, for most of the novel, acts as and
is disguised as one. In his introduction
to the 1953 edition of “The Desire and
Pursuit of the Whole” W. H. Auden
describes Rolfe’s nature with blunt
accuracy. “The reader has the . . . ex-
perience of knowing that he is looking
at the world through the eyes of a homo-
sexual paranoid”.
One should add: a homosexual para-
noid who can write at times with extra-
ordinary flair and zest for language—in
a word, with style. One should also add
that in some of his books Rolfe found a
subject which enabled him to get on to
paper the brilliance of his temperament
without some of its less agreeable fea-
tures: the Italian Renaissance. He was
probably attracted to the period by the
same sensuous splendor which was an
element in his attraction to Roman
Catholicism. Nevertheless, he so satura-
ted himself in its entire history that he
was able to publish a work on the Bor-
gia family and an historical novel, “Don
Tarquinio”, and to prepare another such
novel for the press. “Don Renato” Was
started in the middle 1890 s and by 1909
was actually set in type. A series of
mischances, however, halted production,
and it is only now that “Don Renato”
has been issued, with an Introduction
by Cecil Woolf.
The ostensible hero of the tale is Don
Renato Ascanio Agapito Giorgio Dra-
konteletes Poplicoa di Hagiostayros. In
point of fact, nearly all of the book is
given over to the diary of Don Gheraldo
Pinarj between 1528 and 1530. Don
Gheraldo is a chaplain in the Poplicoa
household, and in his way is every bit
as good as Browning’s Bishop of St.
Praxed’s. His rambling diary entries
re-create an epoch with more extensive
detail and with just as much verve as
the Prelate’s deathbed address to his
family. They reveal that curious mix-
ture of paganism, magic, and Christian-
ity which was the ordinary religion of
Renaissance man. They reveal the
splendor of life in a ducal palace; the
jockeying for power in high places;
the juxtaposition of sudden cruelty and
personal honor, of artistic aspiration and
delight in the senses which we think of
as characteristic of Renaissance Italy.
Most of all, the diary brings to life Don
Gheraldo himself and those who are
closest to him the adolescent Don
Renato; Renato’s father, the Duke Mar-
cantonio; the English exile, Ruggerio;
Cristoforo Pinarj, a young man too
virile by far to be left in the religious
order for which he was intended.
seemingly disjointed observations
of Don Gheraldo are given piquancy
by the fiendish brightness of Rolfe’s
attempts to suggest a sixteenth-century
translation of the priest’s Italian macaro-
nics, his imitations of the classical
authors, his injections of Greek tags and
all the stray ends of his learning. Indeed,
Rolfe appended a fifteen-page glossary
to his book in order to explain all the
words he had invented to give it its
proper flavor. The main section of
“Don Renato”, that is to say, seems at
first sight to be a dippable compendium
for those with a taste for historical re-
creation and a rather desperate stylistic
ingenuity. However, it is followed by
a brief series of letters written by Don
Renato to his father fifteen years after
Don Gheraldo’s diurnal breaks off. They
reveal the naif little priest as a kind of
sixteenth-century Tom Collins, setting
down clues to a story of which he has
only the faintest inkling. It is a story
of romantic love, of honor, violence, and
revenge. It involves the secret marriage
of the fifteen-year-old Renato, the ven-
geance of Marcantonio, and the death
of Gheraldo.
The events of the novel are brought
into their final pattern only in an epi-
logue contributed by Rolfe in his own
person. Structurally, “Don Renato”
becomes an early exercise in the multiple
point of view. In carrying out the
exercise, however, Rolfe does not seem
to have been fully aware of the imagi-
native possibilities that lay within his
grasp. The novel remains primarily the
realisation of a singular personality in
the context of historical romance.
H. P. HESELTINE
McCarthyism
Memories of a Catholic Girlhood.
Mary McCarthy. Penguin Books.
ss. 6d.
"IYJary McCarthy has a reputation
based mainly on “The Groves of
Academe” and her new novel “The
Group” reviewed last week—as a satirist
of harsh asperity who feels little but
contempt for humanity: such a view is
quite incompatible with the tone of the
autobiographical account recently re-
published by Penguin Books. The
chapters appeared originally in “The
New Yorker” and “Harper’s Bazaar” as
separate articles. When they were
collected into a book a commentary was
added to each chapter, correcting and
questioning the earlier recollections. This
commentary, far from disturbing the
reader, adds to the verisimilitude. We
recognise that we would have the same
difficulty in being exact about times and
places, would feel the same inclination
to sacrifice nature to art, to elevate a
hypothesis into a fact if it would give
the episode a satisfactory conclusion.
The qualities most impressive in
“Memories of a Catholic Girlhood” are
an acute and ironic intelligence and re-
markable honesty.
The vicissitudes of the girlhood are


epic keeps
exporters afloat
A
W>
PtSi
Trading overseas on credit? Should your customers
founder, an epic policy will keep you afloat.
epic charts the way to smooth sailing with risk
assessments, credit intelligence and advice on
payment term patterns, epic insurance pays you
when your overseas customers can’t. Ask for the
booklet which tells how epic makes exporting safe.
EXPORT PAYMENTS INSURANCE CORPORATION
Commonwealth Government Guaranteed
Head Office: 2 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. 28 2321.
And in all other Capitals.
surprising in themselves, and have a
symmetry and diversity that might well
be called improbable in fiction. The first
five years as the indulged children of
extravagant parents, who die within a
fortnight of each other in an influenza
epidemic. The next five under the
guardianship of “Uncle Myers”; ill-fed,
ill-housed, ill-clothed and often beaten
- hair-brush or razor-strop, depending
on whether Uncle Myers or Aunt
Margaret officiated although the
wealthy Catholic grandparents lived
only two blocks away, and were often
visited. This period ended when the
children were rescued by the other grand-
father the mother's father a stern,
meticulously upright Presbyterian lawyer
with a Jewish wife. Mary was now
separated from her younger brothers,
and lived in this wealthy but constrained
household while she grew up.
These violent contrasts provoke on
one hand fantasy and self-assertion, and
on the other, combined with strong in-
telligence, scepticism and intellectual
arrogance. There is a beautifully kept
balance between comedy and pathos in
the chapter “C’est Le Premier Pas Qui
Coute.” In a desperate desire for recog-
nition the twelve-year-old weekly boarder
in a select convent school decides to
lose her faith. (Elopement with the
music master had been rejected as
impractical, even without allowing for
his obvious indifference.) The gambit
is a great success. The pupils wonder,
the Sisters weep, the old Father is puzzled
and .distressed, the young missionary
priest dogmatic and aggressive, and the
girl, caught in her own scheme, des-
perately invents the arguments of doubt.
But the fiction becomes the truth, and
it is the rediscovery of faith that is
finally feigned, out of a sense of public
duty, of obligation to the community,
to the Convent.
odd combination of the rebel and
the conformist is plain in a later epi-
sode “The Figures in the Clock”, set in
an Episcopal girls’ boarding school. Miss
McCarthy played Catiline to great
applause in a tragedy written by the
school’s Latin mistress. Contrary to
history and her own later convictions —
contrary, indeed, to the play—she played
Catiline, the thug, demagogue, arsonist,
as a Byronic hero against the little-
minded Caesars and Ciceros of political
Rome. And yet all the time, sharing her
teacher's enthusiasm, she was admiring
Caesar, the man of order, goodwill,
moderation and toleration.
Caesar, just, laconic, severe, magnani-
mous, detached—the bald instrument of
empire, who wrote not “I” but “Caesar”.
The very grammar was beautified for me
by the objective temperament that ordered
it, so much so that today I cannot see
an ablative absolute or a passage of
indirect discourse without happy tears
springing to my eyes.
This chapter ends, too, with a lie told
for the public good. She is caught (by
the Latin mistress) climbing into the
school after dark, after a meeting with
a boy. No one wishes to expel a prize
student a week before the end of her last
term, and so a compromise is found: “I
went out for a smoke.”
The critic can make a neat point by
recalling that “The Groves of Academe”
ends with the defeated Maynard Hoar
spouting Cicero’s first Catilinarian
Oration down the telephone. (The speech
had been included in toto in Miss
Gowrie’s play: it lasted thirty-one
minutes.) To the College President, who
is genial, well-meaning, “liberal”, but
also authority, Henry Mulcahy is the
anarchic principle, the threat of de-
struction to himself and his institution.
To his colleagues who support him Henry
is the Byronic principle, the “essential
non-joiner” whose intransigence helps
those who do not assert their own inde-
pendence to such extremes. But he is
more than this: in spite of his paranoia,
his lies, his outbursts of passion, he,
more than any of the others, has the
“objective temperament”. He knows
what he wants: to keep his job at Jocelyn,
and he does. He “can think rings around”
the rest of them because he does not
delude himself. The others do: they cling
to principles and ideas which are not
fully thought out, and to which their
actions do not correspond, and so become
his victims. To satirise woolly-minded
liberals in a small experimental “pro-
gressive” college is not to support the
other McCarthy.
A lapsed Catholic probably has
advantages that are denied to the back-
slider from most other sects. He has
had access to a moral and intellectual
order of great authority and a ritual of
great beauty. There is a sense of history
without interruption and of special
selection in belonging to a genuinely
supranational association that must per-
sist in some degree even after an in-


NEW
808
. •■.
&
The NEW ELLIOTT 808 addressing machine works faster than 12 typists and never
makes a mistake.
Silently prints from Elliott Address Stencils onto Envelopes, Statements, Wrappers,
Labels, etc. In a nutshell any repetitive addressing.
ELLIOTT Address Stencils are prepared on any standard typewriter . . . print as if
individually typed . . . low in cost . . . out-last the life of any address . . . light-weight
. . . save space . . . file simply and are easy to handle.
Send now for more details of the compact 808 or other Elliott Models
MACDOUGALLS LIMITED
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
291151
2 9498
A.C.T
MELBOURNE 324161
ADELAIDE 8 6361
. .. 4-8160
SOLVES 98%
GARAGE DOOR PROBLEMS
‘FLOATING ACTION’ garage door fittings
From Hardware stores everywhere T .i«
tellectual act of rejection has been made.
The Caesar of order and the Catiline of
independence persist together. As a
novelist Miss McCarthy praises the
objective temperament and ridicules self-
deception. In “A Source of Embarrass-
ment” reality intrudes on a pacifist
utopian community in the form of tres-
passers picking wild strawberries on their
property, who do not go away when
asked politely. This simple event under-
mines the much-argued-over principles
of the community, and breaks its
cohesion. As a critic she exposes pre-
tentiousness and sham—in the preface
to “Sights and Spectacles,” the collection
of her dramatic criticism for “Partisan
Review”, in herself.
It is not usually the opinions I aired
that give me such pain to hear again; it
is the tone ot voice in which they are
pronounced—the voice of a young, earnest,
pedantic, pontificating critic, being cock-
sure and condescending.
This is as endearing as it is exact about
the early pieces. The criticism is not only
negative. She can make brilliantly clear
the intellectual shiftiness of Graham
Greene’s “The Potting Shed”, but she can
also elucidate the humanity that lies
behind Jimmy Porter’s outraged mono-
logues: in either case she brings light.
The France of the Restoration was
embalmed in the atmosphere of her
convent school. “The quarrels of the
philosophes still echoed in the class-
rooms; the tumbrils had just ceased to
creak, and Voltaire grinned in the back-
ground.” Both her satiric asperity and
her rationalism have links with a past;
with Voltaire, or with the enlightened,
cautious, optimistic, disillusioned men
who drew up the United States’ Con-
stitution. This, in the end, is a tradition
more humane and more catholic than the
pessimism and rejection of life of some
determinedly Catholic writers of the
present time.
F. H. MARES
Dynamos
Teacher. Sylvia Ashton - Warner.
Seeker and Warburg. 345. 9d.
An African Abroad. Olabisi Ajala.
Jarrolds. 31s.
The Rocks Remain. Gavin Maxwell.
Longmans. 375. 3d.
author of “Spinster” expounds her
teaching method too unorthodox to
win her promotion from New Zealand
school inspectors but so effective with the
Maori children of her primer classes that
the head inspector himself came to see
it in action. She had evolved a free and
expressive way to help small Maoris
bridge the gap between their culture and
the European one. Discarding conven-
tional readers with their middle-class
English words she made her own books,
of words suggested by the children them-
selves, such as “hit, fight, kiss, cried,
haka”, all closely related to their own
lives. She aimed to give these small
“volcanoes of energy” a knowledge of
themselves, a joy and understanding of
reading. Her dramatic, explosive, original
style suits her ideas.
Unconventional, too, were Mr Ajala’s
methods of penetrating official barriers
on his journey through 87 countries. In
Sydney he made headlines when, in full
Nigerian dress, he broke through a police
cordon at the airport to photograph the
Duke of Edinburgh. He tried the same
method with Mr Khrushchev, also
successfully, as a photograph in the book
shows. In Jerusalem, he crashed the
border between Jordan and Israel with
a temerity that left the trigger-happy
guards gaping. On the whole, the peri-
patetic Mr Ajala takes a light-hearted
attitude to world politics. Ironically his
chapters describing the serious Soviet
Union are the funniest; with a sort of
schoolboy drollery he makes Mr Khrush-
chev’s arrival at a peace conference in
Moscow, for instance, sound positively
hilarious. Disappointingly, his latter
chapters, especially those on Australia,
are flat and lack the early gusto.
Eccentric, rather than unconventional,
is how Gavin Maxwell emerges from this
sequel to his best-selling “Ring of Bright
Water”. It is much the same gentle
mixture as before. Edal the otter is back
with her engaging ways, as illustrated
in many excellent photographs, plus
several newcomers to the menagerie at
the author’s cottage home on the stormy
west coast of Scotland. Another im-
portant newcomer is the author’s wife
Lavinia, whom he married last year, and
who herself is a neat hand at describing
the otter’s behavior and habits. From
wild life, Mr Maxwell digresses to discuss
his enigmatic trips to North Africa, to
reveal his Celtic character and philos-
ophy, and to make a great deal of a
chapter of dire accidents. But why must
he descend to recounting rather tedious
second-hand stories? We can hardly stand
for that in the drawing room, let alone
from a best selling author.
JOYCE BURNARD


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
More Muscle for the Export Drive
Australian exporting has moved squarely into the limelight
during the last week or so, and this, thank goodness, not
solely because of its enormous monetary success for the
first half of 1963-64. Matters of genuine principle are being
freely discussed once more.
When what promises to finish as a particularly rich export
season continues to be founded predominantly upon rural
products and metals, there’s little virtue in just going on talking
about “export drives” for manufacturers and believing that
these are sufficiently stimulated by tax and promotion incen-
lives. Evidently other methods
of encouragement must be called
in to help. The latest steps in
export financing are therefore
emphatically welcome.
Amid a great flood of rumors
involving the Federal Govern-
ment’s reconsideration of pre-
vailing credit facilities, the eight
main Australian trading banks
have suddenly come up with a
fresh scheme of their own. It
has a practical Reserve Bank
backing and presumably the
blessing of the Treasury and
the Department of Trade.
The newly established Aus-
tralian Bankers’ Export Re-
Finance Corporation is plainly
needed. Its justification does not
depend alone on the stated pro-
vision of “an additional pool of
finance”. Far more to the point
of contemporary exporting de-
mands seems the banks’ altered slant on the term-span of
credit.
Up till now the trading banks have comfortably assured
most questioners that they are thoroughly capable of handling
almost all export finance requirements. However, there has
recently grown up an impression that the banks are a little
reluctant to tackle the really long-term stuff.
Perhaps at present not very much more than fairly medium-
term financing is requested by manufacturers. But if Aus-
tralian manufacturing exports ever gather force, the highly
competitive and drawn-out payment devices offered by over-
seas rivals will certainly have to be countered.
Especially flexible finance must be at hand when Australian
industry seizes the manifest opportunities of exporting tech-
niques and skills, of bidding for major constructional contracts,
and in seeking joint ventures.
In the Re-Finance Corporation’s initial capital structure the
£5 million to be “borrowed on a long-term basis from other
institutions” thus appears of great significance.
These institutions (assurance companies and the like) possess
a natural interest in very long-term investment. Their pre-
sence in the bankers’ consortium suggests that all ranges of
export finance can eventually be satisfied.
It may be recalled that when the British Government began
a modernisation of export finance a year or two ago, it designa-
ted the banks to concern themselves with short and medium-
term funds and the assurance companies to cover the long-
term tasks. The scheme is apparently proving quite successful
under modern trading pressures. Something of the same pat-
Australia’s Merchandise Trade
The graph above shows Australia’s exports and imports of
merchandise (in terms of f.o.b. value and excluding bullion
and specie ) between January, 1962 and December, 1963.
( Source: Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics.)
tern could eventually develop in
Australia.
As things stand now, the Re-
Finance Corporation gives ex-
porters access to funds which
will remain unaffected by any
future liquidity problems faced
by the banks. It constitutes a
most valuable technical adjunct
the term lending fund. The
latter in practice has found itself
used more for internal develop-
ment finance than for exports.
Discussions on the funda-
mentals of exporting must not
be allowed to stop at these
financing improvements. Is it
too much to hope that the
Economic Inquiry or some other
body will stick out its neck
on the whole question of pro-
tection and exports?
The costs of inefficiency
should not extend through those
relatively few large-scale and well-run industries on which so
much of Australia’s balanced export prospects rely.
Britain’s Trade Gap Picture
not Pleasant
¥lThile Australia can feel high satisfaction from the rise in
" the export price index in 1963 and the further increase
(details not yet published) in the last two months, the picture
is not a pleasant one at all to Britain. This is especially when
countries like ours refuse to spend the huge balance of payments
surpluses resulting from these higher prices and let them pile
up in London to earn high rates of interest which in turn are
a drag on Britain’s balance of payments.
Although Britain’s rising prosperity has been accompanied
by what is accepted as an inevitable widening of the adverse
trade balance, nobody there appears to have been prepared


for the huge leap in the trade gap (unadjusted) to £l2O million
in January.
One or two non-recurrent factors contributed to the size of
the gap in January. For instance, the delay on the wharves in
December, which usually boosts imports in the following
month, and a strike in the UK steel industry, also had an
adverse effect on both sides of overseas trade. But, as the
Investors’ Chronicle points out, imports in November-January
were 8 p.c. up on the previous three months and 10 p.c. higher
than the 1963 average. That is a result not only of higher
import prices, but also of industry’s active rebuilding of stocks
(which to some extent explains the rise in prices itself).
Moreover, as the journal explains, production has been
galloping ahead and it must feed itself largely on imports.
Production in December was 7 p.c. higher than a year earier.
Obviously this situation cannot be sustained without putting
a strain on sterling area reserves and also on sterling, which
has been pretty weak lately, unless there is massive help either
from international liquidity sources such as the IMF or from
a lift in exports. It is not encouraging that the seasonally
adjusted index for exports for the three months to January
was one p.c. below that of the same year three months a
year back.
Naturally the trade gap trouble, so brutally revealed for
January, came as bad news to the London Stock Exchange,
which has been trying desperately to whistle courageously in
face of Opposition Leader Wilson’s tax and other punitive
arrows.
So far the London Financial Times index of ordinary indus-
trial share prices has retreated by about 20 points from its
opening level of 351. In the same period Melbourne leaders’
index has put on about five points to 1201 and Sydney’s all
ordinaries about 14 points to 378.
These movements are a pretty good reflection of the varying
effects of the recent movements in the terms of trade for
Australia and Britain, not forgetting political factors, of course.
Oil, or Gas, for the
Lamps of Australia?
A succession of natural gas finds in Australia by oil explora-
tion companies suggests that reserves of gas may accu-
mulate to the stage where commercial production is possible.
There is a long way to go yet, but the fact that the Associ-
ated Group already is supplying natural gas to Roma (Queens-
land) is a pointer to the possible future extension of this gas
pipeline and the establishment of others (such as Santos in
South Australia).
The advantages of cheap natural gas has been mentioned
here previously, based on overseas experience which shows
that the initial cost of the pipeline is the major hurdle. After
that, the gas remains on tap for many years, usually at a very
competitive basis when other costs are rising. It is even
shipped by sea in liquefied form.
Exoil came into the gas speculation field last week after
reports on its Mereenie No. 1 well; but all this speculation
must be kept in perspective. Distance is still the major item
in assessing gas pipeline prospects. Then there is the need
for guaranteed sales in opposition to other fuel suppliers.
Union-Kern-AOG’s Moonie pipeline to Brisbane already is
a fact and it could achieve greater significance with further
possible oil and gas finds in the area, including the exploration
efforts of the Associated Group and others in Queensland.
Oil, of course, is still the more glamorous and urgent need,
especially when considering Australia’s £l3O million annual
oil imports bill (and rising).
It would be nice to have both oil and gas and this is
quite feasible from the Richmond and Moonie areas in Queens-
land. But much more exploration work needs to be done
and the recent squabble between Union-Kern-AOG and the
oil refiners about a “fair” price for high gravity Australian
oil does little to encourage other oil exploration groups to
increase their drilling budgets.
Fortunately, the Queensland Government, which has a 10
p.c. royalty at stake, pushed Federal Minister for National
Development (Senator Sir William Spooner) into a statement
which indicated that the Commonwealth Government was
anxious to see an adequate price paid for the local product.
Otherwise the whole programme for oil exploration would
receive a severe setback.
Restraint of Trade and
Preservation of Industries
Tn his first address as chairman of ICIANZ, Mr J. R. A. Glenn
made some realistic observations on the way legislation
purporting to improve the performance of industry inevitably
leads to higher costs.
On the Victorian Companies (Public Borrowings) Act, 1963,
which came into operation on February 1, he said that although
ICIANZ already published half-yearly results, these had not
been required to be audited so that the new legislation would
add to the company's administrative expenses.
Again, on the proposed restrictive trade practices legislation,
he found it difficult at a time when industry was being urged
to reduce costs, to see what there was to commend the sub-
stitution of costly administrative controls for existing legisla-
tion and established principle.
“In all that has been published upon these proposals, little
has been said as to the relevance or fate of the Australian
Industries Preservation Act”, he said. “This existing legis-
lation, enacted in 1906, already forbids contracts or combina-
tions in restraint of trade. It also prohibits monopolisation
and attempts to monopolise, and makes unlawful numerous
types of concessional dealing regarded as unfair or likely to
restrict competition.
“The proposed new legislation covers very much the same
ground and will be subject to the same constitutional limita-
tions as the existing law”.
Softening the
Takeover Blow
mergers and takeovers have assumed such
importance in the modern economy that there is some
agitation in Britain to draw up a set of rules governing the
rights of employees in a takeover.
Employees quite often are small shareholders but, for the
most part, have little say in the matter. There is nothing to
stop an incoming owner from dismissing all employees and
selling the assets, provided all conditions of employment
contracts are met.
For this reason, it is being suggested in Britain that share-
holders and employees both have a moral right to be given
at least some general outline of intentions when one company
bids for another.
The theory is being advanced, evidently with some expected
degree of success in a humanitarian society, that a share-
holder may hesitate to vote for a takeover if it entails the
dislocation of employees. This would apply mainly to the
small shareholder who is prepared to risk some loss of profit.
The larger shareholder, with an eye to a fat capital profit,
would be tempted to ignore the plight of employees. Never-
theless, a statutory notification of intention by a takeover
bidder could eliminate a lot of needless suffering for ulcer-
prone employees.


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NKVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: "NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
<4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH:
2 Denham Street Phone: 6089
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Wanted: More Information
Statisticians’ figures on stock movements lack detail
HThe latest figures for production, im-
ports and capital expenditure by
industry suggest that while the potential'
spendable income in the country is in-
creasing by leaps and bounds, the supply
of consumable goods is at best increasing
very slowly and that the major part of
the rise in industrial spending is going
into fixed rather than stocks investment.
But without better information on
stock movements one cannot be too sure
of this. If this view is correct there
would seem to be a case for using a
bigger proportion of the present huge
increases in export income for importing
consumer goods, with the idea of helping
to cushion the upsurge in effective de-
mand which must on present expectations
ensue later this year.
Equally it can be argued that there
is a danger on present trends that we are
directing rather too high a proportion
of resources into investment to the sacri-
fice of consumption, and a greater effort
is now required from local consumption
goods industries.
Production appears to have been more
than usually affected by shut-downs for
holidays in January. According to the
National Bank of Australasia, a large
proportion of factories closed down for
a long holiday period following the
granting of three weeks’ annual leave,
although some manufacturers retained
a skeleton staff to maintain limited pro-
duction and to supply urgent orders.
TViscountinc, this factor, the most rea-
sonable interpretation of the patchy
performance of industrial production in
January is that while the economy is
building up for a substantial rise in in-
dustrial and public investment, producers
have been in no hurry to cater for a
rapid possible rise in spending on con-
sumption goods, despite the bigger offtake
of these in December and the consequent
reduction in stocks of finished goods.
But as the months go by this year,
one would expect a general realisation by
industry that spending could catch alight
at any time as a result of the multiply-
ing effects of new income generation
stemming from the rising tide of building
and fixed investment generally, not to
speak of rural incomes.
As a matter of fact, the preponder-
ance of lifts in the outputs of heavy in-
dustries (iron and steel, building materi-
als, cement, timber) and the limping
performance of consumer durables in
January fits nicely into the pattern of the
already statistically annotated jump in
industrial investment in the December
quarter, when the £147.1 million expen-
diture by industry was the highest
quarterly total ever. It was made up of
£54.6 million for new buildings and
structures (a record) and £92.5 million
for other new industrial capital equip-
ment.
latter was a record for any De-
A cember quarter but slightly below
the £94.3 million registered for the June
quarter last year, which is the best
quarter so far.
Unfortunately the figures do not
differentiate between expenditure on
fixed investment and stocks, and it is a
very moot point whether the bulk of the
increase has been in fixed investment or
in stock building.
At least on stocks of finished goods,
the capital expenditure of £27.1 million
by the wholesale and retail trades in the
December quarter (which was only £1.2
million higher than in the same quarter
the previous year and down by £1.9
million on the September quarter, 1963)
suggests sluggishness of stock building in
those trades.
But going on the experience in the
December quarter the previous year,
when stocks increased by £159 million
(£lO million more than the increase for
the whole year) one would hesitate to
predict that another big rise in stocks of
raw materials and components didn’t take
place in the December quarter, 1963.
Indeed, in January when local demand
for steel (in NSW) was said to be 15 p.c.
higher than a year earlier, and big in-
creases also occurred in outputs of other
constructional materials, it would appear
that substantial stockbuilding at the
starting end of the production line con-
tinued very strongly throughout the
month, whereas, as already noted, sup-
pliers of finished goods found their re-
tail customers in no great hurry to
rebuild their stocks after the Christmas
rush.
It will be remembered that last year
stock building continued to be a major
force in the strong increase in industrial
production in the March quarter, and
when its influence was removed in the
June quarter industrial production
stopped rising. (Actually it fell back
sharply for seasonal reasons but, accord-
ing to the ANZ Bank, held steady on a
seasonally adjusted basis, staying at the
March level for the next three months.)
the record, it is worth stating that
according to the national income ac-
counts there was a reduction of £l2l
million in stocks in the June quarter last
year. This followed increases in the
three previous quarters (in £ millions) of
64,159 and 52 and a drop of 126 in
the corresponding (June) quarter, 1962.
It is also probable that imports are
not yet contributing much to stocks of
finished goods. For, though it looks big
at £106.6 million, the imports bill for
January was not unduly heavy consider-
ing the low figure of £90.1 for December.
To get a fair picture, the figures for
the two months should be averaged. The
average for the two months works out at
£98.3 million as. against £96.8 million
for November, not a significant rise.
Something over 80 p.c. of imports
have been raw materials and industrial
components in recent months, and there
is no reason to suggest that the pro-
portion of consumption goods in the
total has suddenly increased.
Certainly to get a clearer picture of
the possible money-goods situation
building up it would greatly assist econo-
mic and business forecasts to have
more detailed and up-to-date figures for
stock movements in the economy.
This is one aspect of his department
the Commonwealth Statistician should
look at more closely. Already this year
we have had the startling example of
the adjustments that had to be made for
price movements and “stock valuation”
to the figures for gross national product
at market prices even after the national
income white paper had declared at the
time of the last Budget that the adjust-
ment for price movements would make
little difference to the figures when ex-
pressed in constant prices.
Is it that the Commonwealth Statisti-
cian’s information on stock movements is
so sketchy that he, himself, is misled by
it? Or has he more information than
he thinks fit to publish?


WIDE
sl*
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(incorporated in England)
Assets exceed £200,000,000
The Royal Exchange Assurance Group of Offices provides a
world-wide insurance service backed by experience over almost two
and a half centuries.
Ihe following are the associated companies operating in
Australia:
• ATLAS ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• AUSTRALIAN & EASTERN INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
• THE STATE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• BRITISH EQUITABLE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• THE PACIFIC INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
Branches in aii States
Head Office for Australia—
Kindersley House,
Bligh/O'Connell Streets,
Sydney.
Frank H. Egerton
Manager for Australia
“CROESUS”
Copland and Korman on TV
Clash on immigration and living standards
■fl/HEN being interviewed together by
" Patrick Tennant on the trading
banks’ TV programme in Melbourne
recently, Sir Douglas Copland and Mr
Stanley Korrnan looked an unlikely pair
from the beginning, and as the conversa-
tion warmed up they got even further
apart.
Even at their one meeting point, a
mutual predilection for growth, Sir
Douglas had to shake his head and admit
that Mr Korrnan wanted too much too
quickly, while Mr Korrnan said that as
he could no longer rely on the ball of
national growth being kept in continu-
ous motion, the days of huge public
borrowings were over.
Mr Korrnan said quite blandly that
Australia’s yearly intake of immigrants
should be something like 400,000 a year
(the net gain from all sources in Janu-
ary was 10,454) and saw no insuperable
difficulty in supporting this number,
using the old military argument that for
every front line fighter an army needs
nine others in the rear echelons to sup-
port and sustain him.
He wasn’t interested in the difficulties
of providing the necessary capital, no
doubt thinking, as had been done by
Israel in the late 19405, that the thing
is to get the migrants in and worry about
the capital and accommodation problems
later. Prime Minister Chifley used to
have the same idea.
To keep the standard of living rising
is, seemingly, just as important to Sir
Douglas as stepping up the pace of
development, yet unless the latter is
accompanied by substantial increases in
productivity and the maintenance of
favorable terms of overseas trade, the
task of keeping the standard of living
rising will become greater in some rough
proportion to the increase in immigration.
Indeed, with targets such as Mr Kor-
man’s it would be virtually impossible
to meet them without a deterioration in
the standard of living, as Sir Douglas
pointed out. But that is not to say that
with our recent record of a productivity
rise of 3t p.c. last year and an improve-
ment of about 30 p.c. in the terms of
our overseas trade over the last nine
months, the conditions are not right for
coping with another bulge in the immigra-
tion intake, even if, taking the bumper
immigration period 1949-51 as a pre-
cedent and given the current buoyancy
of income generators in the system, we
could hardly expect to keep prices stable
in the process.
What has to be realised, of course, is
that the problem for the economy as
a whole is not so much the difficulty of
getting the necessary capital to integrate
the postulated step-up in the immigra-
tion intake (at the moment our bulging
overseas reserves could be used for the
purpose), but rather the cushioning of
the impact of the greatly increased
spending (both consumption and invest-
ment) on the stability of prices.
However, there is no basic reason why,
with sound planning of the growth of
supplies to meet the particular consump-
tion and investment needs of a higher
immigration intake, price stability should
be disturbed, say, to the extent it was
in 1949-51.
The big trouble in 1949-51 was, of
course, the difficulty in filling the gaps in
local production to meet the expanded
consumption and investment needs over-
seas. It was not that we didn’t have the
funds to buy overseas goods on the scale
required, or that the terms of trade were
not in our favor, but simply that the
goods were not for sale to us owing to
overseas priorities, both civil and mili-
tary.
The situation now is quite different.
Not only are the terms of trade becoming
more and more in our favor and are
being reflected in record overseas funds,
but the highly industrialised countries
of the old world are urgently striving
to increase their exports to this country.
What is more, despite the rise in out-
put that has taken place in a good many
industries here over the last 12 months
or more, it is obvious from the latest
production figures that many firms are


Keep
fully
informed!
your
| personalised
\ Product and Data Manual—-
f'phone Mr. Service at any
|W.-P. & G. office, or check.clipout
and post with your letterhead.
□ Test Equipment—including
Dynamometers, Special Plant for
Testing, Testing and Measurement
Machines.
□ Drives and Brakes (Variable Speed)
—including
Controlled, Programmed, Synchronising,
etc.
□ Steam and Drying Equipment
—including
Generators, Cleaners and Space'
Heaters.
□ Chemical Compounds and Equipment
—including
Cleaning and Processing.
□ Materials, Industrial —including
Friction, Anti-friction, and Mechanical
Packings and Seals.
□ Pneumatic and Hydraulic Equipment
—including
Pneumatic Service Equipment,
Hydraulic Hoses and Couplings, Rings
and Seals.
□ Fastenings, Industrial and Construction
—including
Production Blind Riveting Systems,
Cartridge Powered System and Stud
Welding.
□ Tools, Machine and Hand —including
Bandsaw and Grinding Machines,
Blading, Carboloy Cemented Carbides, •
Engineers’ Files and High Speed
Cutting Tools.
□ Steel, Alloy and Specialty —including
Hollow Bar, Tubes and Pipes, Bars
and Rods, etc., and other Specials
and Custom Alloys.
Call your man today at
W-P&G
line
WPG4S/63'
still working at less than capacity, espe-
cially in the consumption goods field.
Sir Douglas used to reckon some years
ago that it took about £2OOO of new
capital to accommodate each migrant
into the Australian economy. Probably
the figure would be greatly in excess of
this today. So that not counting that
required to absorb the natural increase in
population (141,420 in 1962-1963) the re-
quired new capital each year to econo-
mically assimilate new migrants on Mr
Korman’s scale would be something like
£BOO million at least, or about £5OO
million more than the current rate of net
apparent capital inflow into the country.
Of course, neither Sir Douglas nor
Mr Korman is frightened of a bit of
inflation (on the TV programme the
former was most scathing about stabi-
lity) so possibly Sir Douglas would be
prepared to go a little of the way with
Mr Korman towards a much bigger mi-
gration target. Neither would presum-
ably dispute the point that to attempt
the additional raising of, say, £5OO million
of new capital, either from overseas or
home sources of supply, would push up
the price level in Australia, and that to
raise investment even by half that amount
a year would have the same result.
In effect, the processes would amount
to “forced saving” by the community as
a whole in the sense that economists
once used this term.
However, Sir Douglas didn’t challenge
Mr Korman’s high immigration target
on either of these two grounds the
task of getting the required capital or
the inflationary effects of spending it
except in saying that it was essential to
assimilate the migration intake in a
rising standard of living.
With the scope in overseas reserves
and recurring monthly trade surpluses
for importing more goods, both capital
and consumption, and the slack still to
be taken up in industry here, it is clear
that 1964 could see a big increase in the
migration intake successfully integrated
into the economy with a minimum dis-
turbance of price stability.
But if, say, the Arbitration Com-
mission decides to award the present
work force a substantial increase in
wages as a result of the case which
opened in Melbourne last week, then the
disturbance to price stability of a much
increased migration intake would be
considerable.
It all gets down to this insistence of
Sir Douglas Copland (widely supported
in the community) that a rising stand-
ard of living in Australia is sacrosanct.
One day we may learn, as the Jews did
in Israel, that the first thing you must
be prepared to sacrifice to fill a country
with people is part of your standard of
living. Any takers?
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
PR Image of H-P
Dear Sir,
As the newly elected Chairman of the
Australian Hire Purchase & Finance
Conference I would like to raise several
matters which were mentioned in an
article published in The Bulletin on
February 22, entitled “PR Image of
H-P” referring to the 1963-64 annual
report of Conference.
The report stated that as the recent
fall in borrowing rates applied only to
a small proportion of the total funds
borrowed from the public over a long
period, it was not feasible to expect any
great fall in hiring charges.
Your writer suggested that this was
difficult to understand. The point is that
prudent finance companies which have
a considerable amount of long-term
money have found only a very small
overall reduction in the cost of their
borrowed funds. For example, one finance
company, a member of the AHPFC, has
reduced its borrowing rates by
between June, 1963, and January, 1964,
and yet the average percentage paid on
all borrowings has only fallen by .019%
from 6.513% to 6.494%.
The companies are still using borrowed
funds raised many years ago (sometimes
lodged for up to 20 years) to finance
new agreements while a large proportion
of the new money is used to pay back
maturing debentures.
Your article suggests that the AHPFC
has kept rates high “by agreement”.
There is no agreement of any kind
between member companies of the Con-
ference regarding the charge rates for
any classes of business.
The article also referred to the durable
consumer goods market and suggests that
the “exorbitant charges” of finance com-
panies in the boom led to a large part
of the domestic appliance business being
conducted by the stores themselves.
This is not correct. In the first place,
it is a matter of record that hiring charge
rates in Australia are among the lowest
in the world, despite the fact that the
finance companies here are legally obliged
to carry high rates of stamp duty which
cannot be passed on to hirers.
Secondly, it is the view of the Confer-
ference that a large proportion of the do-
mestic appliance business is now being
financed by retail stores, because it suited
them to do this and permitted them to
meet competition among themselves by
employing pricing, trade-in and (very
often) no deposit techniques which were
not acceptable to the finance companies.
G. W. KIMBER
Chairman


m
\
h ' s
NV
1
jn
m
m
-&- <
PROFIT NEWS from W-P G
Laboratory engine test on small internal combustion engine.
Froude Hydraulic Dynamometer
size G 4 350 b.h.p., speeds 2,000/6,000 r.p.m.
Throughout the world - a Heenan & Froude Engine Test
■S
W
FREE PERSONALISED “PRODUCT
AND DATA MANUAL."
Here's a wealth of information on
products that you can use to im-
prove efficiency and increase
profits. Contact your man today
at Westeels-Paul & Gray for your
personalised copy.
is accepted proof of performance!
For over 80 years Heenan & Froude have been manufacturing
Dynamometers. This experience is your guarantee of reliability.
All Heenan & Froude test plants are capable of meeting the most stringent
requirements.
Special designs will be undertaken to meet specific requirements and complete
test-house equipment can be supplied. For full details of all aspects of the
Heenan & Froude dynamometers and test plant, call your man today at
Westeels - Paul &Gray
BRISBANE—Phone 5-2271. 822 Ann Street, Valley. NEWCASTLE—Phone 2-1595. Cnr. Scott & Bolton Streets.
SYDNEY —Phone 648-0199. 31-33 Parramatta Road, Lidccmbe. MELBOURNE —Phone 211-6961. 1056 Danden'ong Road, Carnegie.
ADELAIDE —Phone 65-9021. 165 Main North Road, Nailsworth.
WPGBS/63


INVESTMENT SECTION
L. J. Hooker Planning More Sagely
Option-holders to get additional facts before July
An attitude of responsible planning
guides the affairs of L. J. Hooker
Investment Corporation these days, in
wise contrast to the more relaxed methods
of earlier years. Shareholders may de-
rive a good deal of consolation from
this reform, even though the latest interim
report makes it obvious that resumption
of dividends can hardly be expected
before 1965.
Perhaps the best feature of the 34 p.c.
profit lift in the December half-year,
against the December, 1962 period, is
the fact that earnings ran just a little
ahead of budget. Budgeting procedures
tell significantly throughout the group
now.
They do not only depend upon “elec-
tronic data processing and co-ordinated
market research and surveys”. Sheer
management control has become much
tighter and correspondingly effective.
It’s not too easy for the sharemarkets
to draw any very exact conclusions from
such intangibles. So prices still continue
to move somewhat hesitantly since the
report.
In spite of a confident mood of fur-
ther advances (directors anticipate a bet-
ter than 34 p.c. improvement over the
full 1963-64 year), the ss. shares
descended to just below par. The closely
observed 1964 and 1965 options also
dropped back.
Rather naturally, the 4,486,236 1964
options hold a key position at the
moment, both for the company and for
investors.
Not so long ago a decidedly small
exercise possibility would have been pre-
dicted. Now directors speak optimisti-
cally of a considerable take-up and have
no doubts that the extra capital can be
usefully and profitably fed into the
company.
Their confidence and candour will find
valuable expression before the July dead-
line in a special and detailed statement
they will issue to put option-holders
thoroughly in the picture. Prospects are
to be analysed in the light of profits
earned between January and April.
In passing, this statement should con-
tain none of the sublime vagueness of
one sentence at least in the interim re-
port: “The corporation has continued to
concentrate on activities with stability
and growth prospects”. In all fairness
it must be added that the management
proved very ready to fill in details at a
Press conference.
The intervening months could well
see a fair amount of jockeying within
share and option prices. Apart from the
speculative game, most option-holders
would be well advised to wait for the
facts, which more and more are becoming
decisive in a just evaluation of L. J.
Hooker.
A stable image is clearly being pursued
through such things as pastoral and hotel
operations. Some years must elapse
before the pastoral section furnishes
adequate profits and financing its deve-
lopment still seems mildly sticky. But
ultimate revenue benefits are definitely
in sight.
Commercial and retail projects have
been got on the move as well. A new
modesty forecasts progress here: “Con-
tinuing benefits can be expected in the
future from satisfactory profit-sharing
arrangements pursuant to project head
leases”.
It doubtless means a lot when L. J.
Hooker Investment Corporation can talk
about real estate activities providing
“sweeteners’" to profits from the rest of
the group.
Merger Brings Benefits
Shareholders of the old Elder Smith
and Goldsbrough Mort companies
are now seeing some benefits from their
decision to merge into one company.
Two-thirds of the way through the
year, directors of Elder Smith Golds-
brough Mort take an optimistic view of
conditions for the remainder of the year,
and have not only raised the interim
dividend from 3 to 4 p.c. but forecast
a final 6 instead of 5 p.c.
Integration has meant economies, but,
alas, these have been largely offset by
higher costs.
If higher costs are dogging the larger
woolbrokers and pastoralists, the pressure
on smaller companies to amalgamate
must be continuous.
Cyclonic Depression
T'he Brooklyn steel works is still a
A source of trouble to Cyclone Co. of
Australia Ltd, which reported a con-
tinuation of losses by the subsidiary
K. M. Steel Products Pty Ltd, in the
December half-year.
Sales of the parent company rose
20 p.c. and profit margins were better,
so that the group’s profit did improve.
Directors are hopeful that higher rural
spending will maintain this trend.
The company certainly inherited
problems with its takeover of K. M.
Steel Products Ltd seven years ago. The
changed market situation for steel
world excess capacity and resultant price
competition coincided with a costly
modernisation and expansion programme.
Last year’s reduced 8 p.c. dividend
has been repeated with a 4 p.c. interim
dividend. The 10s. shares now sell at
14s. 6d. to yield 5.5 p.c. and the 20s. 7
p.c. notes, which convert one-for-one,
(that is at 10s. premium) sell for 15s. lOd.
to yield 8.8 p.c.
No Age of Miracles
Tt looks like being another boring year
for shareholders in David Syme and
Co., publisher of Melbourne’s “Age”
paper.
In the December half-year advertising
space rose by 5 p.c. and circulation con-
tinued its upward trend. These improve-
ments had very little effect on profit
which was only slightly in excess of the
previous corresponding half-year.
The fact that the interim dividend was
lifted from 5 to 6 p.c. gives no cause
for rejoicing. This merely brings the
payout into line with last year’s full
12 p.c. distribution.
Clyde Prospers
"Ousiness was brisker for Clyde Indus-
tries Ltd, Sydney engineer, in the
December six months. Both sales and
profit were up on the previous corre-
sponding period.
Last year, earning rate advanced from
14.7 to 19.2 p.c. The usual 15 p.c. pay-
out is now maintained with a 7i p.c.
interim.
Clyde is at present making direct take-
over approaches to shareholders of the
WA company Tomlinson Steel Ltd, over
directors’ heads.
This accounts for the relative modesty
of Clyde’s market price. At 11s. 6d. the
ss. shares return 6.5 p.c., and compare
with 1963 price range of from Bs. 4d. to
12s. Id.
Jordan’s Rising: Status
Jordan Chemicals Ltd, of Sydney,
** found diversification beneficial and
was able to report higher production,


■
■
S’®**?
■I
;v
m
■i
m
m
m
S
?1
»"
m;
■ I? '
***?
r o°°o ;
® 0 >®
a f i|i o 1
V J®
I ®oo° i
Hi
PLACE: SYDNEY
TIME: 6.30 MONDAY
PLACE: MELBOURNE
TIME: 6.30 MONDAY
New network link covers V 3 of
Australian viewing audience
GTV-9 and TCN-9 combine to bring Sydney and
Melbourne viewers interstate programmes . . .
LIVE AS THEY HAPPEN!
It's an exciting new era in Australian television
provided by the coaxial cable link between these
two cities.
Over 1 million television homes throughout N.S.W.
and Victoria will receive regular daily telecasts
from interstate.
It’s another first from Television City.
9


turnover and profit for the December
half-year.
There was no mention in the interim
report of raising new funds, although
this possibility was brought up at the
annual meeting in late October.
Licences from overseas manufacturers
are still being talked about.
Priced at around 18s., the ss. shares
have now surpassed 1962 and 1963
peaks. Income return is 3.5 p.c. from
the unchanged 124 p.c. dividend.
In the Nick of Time
Tt looks as though CAGA’s purchase
A of a 48.2 p.c. interest in Australian
Equity arrived just in the nick of time.
The Melbourne financier will need the
help of bank-backed CAGA if the 1964
profit is going to be on a par with that
of 1963.
In the half-year to December 31, profit
came back from £171,000 to £159,000.
(Full profit in 1963 was a record
£329,000). The fall is slightly worse than
it looks because it was after tax of only
£BO,OOO, compared with £97,000 pre-
viously.
The main reason for the fall was the
higher interest paid on borrowed funds.
Outstandings were maintained at approxi-
mately the same level.
The CAGA affiliation should bring
many advantages, one of them being the
ability to borrow money more cheaply.
Such a gain should eventually bring
profits back to the 1963 record level.
The return could come in the current
year but, as directors do not expect
appreciable benefits to arise for some
months, it will probably be held off until
1965.
Grander Designs
"Deflecting the revival in the building
industry, Paynter and Dixon Indus-
tries Ltd, Sydney building designer, has
enjoyed higher turnover and revenue in
the December half-year.
The 18 p.c. dividend rate instituted
last year, when earning rate was 35.7 p.c.
on capital, has been maintained with an
interim 9 p.c.
Work on hand is in substantially
greater volume than in February, 1963.
The ss. shares are, with justification,
around the 1963 peak price at 265.
Not AH Beer and Skittles
largest of the ten-pin bowling com-
panies, Bowling Centres (Holdings)
Ltd, has passed the interim dividend on
the grounds that ready funds are short.
Four new centres have been opened
in Victoria since June 30, and this
building programme has dried up liquid
funds. Furthermore, it looks as if the
company will be unable to repeat last
year’s dividend without a big improve-
ment in trading for the second half of
the year.
In the last financial year, BCH earned
10.2 p.c. on capital. For the six months
"He's only reading 'Lolita'. For a moment I thought it was 'Tharunka'."
to December 30, 1963, profit fell by
about 20 p.c.
In 1962-63 the company paid a maiden
dividend of 10 p.c. in quarterly pay-
ments, but this year directors decided
to pay just an interim and a final.
At the last annual meeting, the chair-
man (Mr L. J. Thompson) spoke of
excess capacity in some areas. He re-
ported then that the company’s diver-
sification into dry-cleaning (at Hurstville)
was profit earning.
The ss. shares have slumped to 2s. lOd.
Viva La Cheney!
Tf, by the end of this month, you see
A quite a number of the new Vauxhall
“Vivas” on the road it could be well
worth your buying a few shares in
Cheney Motors Holdings.
The company is Melbourne’s biggest
Vauxhall distributor and also deals in
Holdens, Chevrolets and Bedford trucks.
The new “Viva” will cost around the
£lOOO mark and will be in competition
with Ford’s “Cortina” and BMC’s new
“Morris 1100”. It has already met a
strong demand in Britain.
If the car is successful, Cheney’s 1964
result could easily return to the level of
the 1959-60 boom year. Moves in this
direction will be greatly helped anyway
by the success of the new Holdens, parti-
cularly the latest “179” manual drive.
In the half-year to December 31, the
acceptance of the new Holden helped
Cheney lift sales by £350,000 or 14 p.c.
to more than £2.85 million.
PGH Does Well
HThe profit improvement in the opening
quarter of PGH’s financial year to
June has been maintained through the
first six months.
From £138,348 to £167,995 repre-
sents a 21 p.c. increase. If that rate of
improvement is held, this building
materials group could show an earning
rate of nearly 27 p.c. for 1963-64.
The availability of finance from
Government and other sources for home-
building could reasonably be expected
to produce an acceleration in profit
earning in the second half of the year,
if PGH holds its share of the market.
The 16i p.c. dividend of three years’
standing allows a return of 3.6 p.c. while
the ss. shares change hands at 235.
Successful Reorganisation
HThe reorganisation moves made by
H. Rowe and Co., Melbourne
electrical engineer, merchant and manu-
facturer, are proving enormously success-
ful?
They were the main reasons behind
the 1962-63 result which doubled profit


AN ISSUE AT PAR (£100)
OF £250,000 REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE
STOCK AND REGISTERED
UNSECURED NOTES
ESTABLISHED 38 YEARS
DIRECTORS:
J. W. Douglass (Chairman)
F. E. Jones W. J. Farram
TRUSTEES FOR THE
DEBENTURE STOCKHOLDERS
AND UNSECURED NOTEHOLDERS:
Perpetual Custodians Limited
33-39 Hunter St., Sydney
P.T. Limited
33-39 Hunter St., Sydney
DEBENTURE
STOCK
7| % 6-10 years
71%—5 years
71 % —4 years
7%—3 years
61%—2 years
UNSECURED
NOTES
1\% —3 years
7%—2 years
6%—12 months
5i% —6 months
5%—3 months
4i%— At call
(30 days’ notice)
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
PROSPECTUS & APPLICATION FORM
Applications can be accepted only on the
form of application referred to in and
attached to a printed copy of the Pros-
pectus which may be obtained from:
ALL MEMBERS OF
THE STOCK EXCHANGE
or direct from
DIRECT
ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION
LIMITED
Interocean House, 261 George St., Sydney. 27-8611
N.5.W.14370
to <£103,024 and returned 8 p.c. to
shareholders instead of the previous
6 p.c. Benefits are apparently still
accruing because earnings in the Decem-
ber half-year after tax jumped from
£37.000 to £70,000.
However, a further dividend increase
should not be expected in the current
year. Directors have stated they wish
to conserve fun'ds for further expansion.
On the surface, such a statement may
seem unencouraging but it should be
remembered that an expansion pro-
gramme may require funds such as could
be raised by a share issue. Even if no
issue is made, such a programme reflects
a confidence in the future and share-
holders could benefit in the long run.
Hark, Hark the Larke
/Compare the three-line interim an-
nouncements from numerous com-
panies that profit is “satisfactory” and
dividend will be so and so, with the three
quarto-page, single spaced typed state-
ment from Larke Consolidated Industries
Ltd.
Documenting the trends in each in-
dividual sphere of operations, as well as
specifying the half-year’s profit, Larke
inspires investors’ and employees’ con-
fidence and support.
In fact, Larke has always recognised
that it had a responsibility to stock-
holders, employees, creditors, customers,
stockbrokers and others to report its
doings in full.
Profit actually rose 26.5 p.c. to
£152,790. If this rate of improvement
were maintained for the balance of the
year and directors suggest this is
possible an earning rate approaching
36 p.c. could be notched.
Larke admitted that profit from motor
vehicle sales declined in the December
six months, but profit was significantly
greater from manufacturing, production,
engineering and replacement parts.
Sales of Pressed Metal Corporation
rose 19.5 p.c., of Rogers Chain Holdings
20 p.c., of Rydal Steel 13.7 p.c., Lyte
Metal Industries Pty 25 p.c., Ausfield
13.5 p.c., with related increases in profit.
Sales of BMC vehicles by Larke Hos-
kins Pty were lower, competition being
intense from other BMC distributors
and the rest of the market. Release of
the new Morris 1100 is expected to im-
prove the situation for the second half.
Sales of Fiats by Neal Investments
were also lower, and this was aggravated
by reduced profit margins. The overall
profit for the year should still show a
satisfactory return on investment.
Variance in the model mix and
higher costs lowered the profit of Turin
Distributors although it sold consider-
ably more vehicles. The profit rate is
nevertheless high.
The Victorian Fiat distributor, Will-
castle Pty, is overcoming its establish-
ment problems and now trading profit-
ably,
No developments in the search for an
additional business to purchase Were
mentioned in the interim statement.
It can be safely assumed from the
trading trend and absence of major
capital expenditure that the £420,000 in
cash and deposits held at June 30 last,
has not been diminished.
Out on a Limb
VTews Ltd of Adelaide has revealed
part of its finance plans for a pos-
sible takeover of Wellington Publishing
Co., publisher of The Dominion, the
only morning newspaper in Wellington
(NZ).
A premium issue after a bonus has
been announced. This would raise
£1,567,165 of the £2f million required


I. B. & FRANK CHARLTON
STOCK & SHARE BROKERS
F. B. Charlton J. F. Charlton
J. M. Fay C. A. B. Marjason
J. L. Russell
Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING
309 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Phone 22775 Box 61A G.P.O.
TOOWOOMBA BRANCH
A.M.P. Building, Ruthven Street
Phone 2 5206
McKinley wilson & co.
AJAX HOUSE, 105 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE.
J. GORDON M. MOFFATT
CHRISTOPHER R. HOWLETT
LAWRENCE G. VINEY
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
OF MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE: 67-8701, 67-8044 (14 lines)
to fulfil its cash offer to The Dominion.
The bonus, a one-for-five, will involve
£313,433 new capital, and the cash issue,
one-for-three ss. shares at 7s. 6d.
premium, will involve £626,866 in
capital and £940,299 in premiums.
Final capital will then be £2,507,464,
on which directors anticipate no difficulty
in holding the 10 p.c. dividend. (Earn-
ing rate last year to June was 39.9 p.c.)
The issue is supposed to be for general
development and consolidation group
activities.
What happens to the funds if either
of the other contenders for the Domi-
nion’s hand, Wilson and Horton Ltd, or
the Thomson organisation of the UK,
succeeds, or the NZ Government clamps
down on overseas ownership? Will they
be profitably employed without delay?
Dividend Rate Restored
"Deflections of the buoyant building
industry are continually appearing
as the various companies in allied fields
report greatly improved half-years. A
recent addition comes from Coates and
Co., Melbourne-based engineer in the
building and road construction field.
Sales jumped 27 p.c. in the December
term, while profits increased “satisfac-
torily”. The company will make a wel-
come return to the 10 p.c. dividend rate
of 1961-62 by lifting the interim payout
from 3f to 5 p.c. Full distribution last
year totalled 74p.c.
These upward trends should continue
for the rest of 1963-64 as increased ac-
tivity in the relevant industries continues.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Getting Among the Big Stuff
Base metals running on a rampage
YI/hile some of us have been pushing
up Prasby, one smart Sydney woman
has been registering the name “Beatle”.
She will be in a box seat (another Cassius)
when the Beatles put in an appearance
here later this year.
Referring back to Prasby, it was re-
grettable to find the shares jump from
2s. sd. to 3s. 2d. in a day. Of course
it boosts my ego to see that the column
is read and I appreciate the interest. But
to assume that if I bought Prasby at
2s. 7d., I would necessarily recommend
them to be bought at 3s. is wrong. In
fact, when they hit 3s. Id., I sold out
500. The profit was only £5 but it
serves as pocket money for the week.
During the week I moved into the
big stuff by buying 400 Mt. Isa at 435.
A recent survey amongst Sydney brokers
showed that along with BHP, Blue Metal,
CSR and Broken Hill South, it was one
of the most recommended stocks of the
moment.
That, of course, helps the market price.
My particular interest in the company
arose when the world copper price moved
up almost 20 p.c. to £stg27o a ton in
the last month. The rise has triggered off
a further increase in the local price of
copper of £lO to £335.
The price advance must benefit Aus-
tralia’s largest and most efficient copper
producer, Mt. Isa. Silver, zinc and lead
are also mined and all these metals have
figured in rises during the last year.
Because of an eight-week strike in
1962, the upward trend in production
figures was broken in that year. But
they more than recovered in 1963. Pro-
duction for that year averaged 9225 tons
a day, just 50 p.c. greater than it was
four years ago. Directors plan to step
up this production another 50 p.c. to
14,400 tons a day, by 1966. Capital
expenditure, which in recent years has
averaged £5 million a year, has been
financed by retained profits and looks
like continuing to be so. The company
has not had one cash issue to share-
holders since 1950.
A three-for-two bonus issue was made
last August. As the dividend is being
reduced from 25 p.c. to 10 p.c., the
issue does not involve any immediate
change in the dividend commitment.
Metals being the order of the day, I
switched my attention over to tin. The
world tin price had jumped to £stgl2so
a ton on the Wednesday. Next day it
fell back £6O to £ll9O which is still a
good £lOO above the price some weeks
ago. In sympathy with these wild price
fluctuations, the share prices of Table-
land and Renison have been following
each other. While Tableland still seems
very good, the proposed one-for-one ss.
par value issue by Renison was too
much to resist.
Renison could become the Mt. Isa of
tin. Located in Western Tasmania, it
has been estimated to have reserves of
four million tons. At the present rate
of production, this would give the mine
a life of 150 years. But the new issue
is to finance a major programme of
expansion. If the copper price remains
firm, the share most definitely offers
positive growth.
So when both shares stood at 375., I
made the switch. Tableland showed a
profit of £2Bl. I also sold Aberfoyle at
16s. 3d. giving a profit of £lO2.
On the last sale of the week, Watson
and Crane, the profit of £2O seemed
pale. Still it gave me quite a kick when
the G. E. Crane directors finally settled
on a one-for-five offer.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
500 Prasby 3/1 £73
400 Tableland 37/- £730
500 Watson & Crane .... 16/2 £396
800 Aberfoyle 16/3 £636
BOUGHT
400 Renison 37/- £752
400 Mt. Isa 43/- £B7B
Back into debt, now £97. Biggest
happening in the portfolio this week
was Ansett’s success with its television
licence applications both in Adelaide and
Perth.
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
2000 Hanimex 23/5/62 9/6 14/6
1000 Aeron 14/8/63 7/9 8/3
1000 ODE 29/10/63 5/6 6/6
1000 Mobile Equip. 30/10/63 8/4 9/6
400 Mai leys 12/11/63 27/3 32/6
200 Tutt Bryant £1
notes 22/11/63 29/3 35/-
1000 Ansett 2/12/63 7/7 9/3
500 Country Television 3/12/63 12/- 13/6
200 AWA 20/12/63 26/3 28/-
400 O'Donnell Griffin 23/12/63 21/6 21/6
400 Stocks & Holdings 23/12/63 15/9 16/6
400 Pioneer Concrete 9/1/64 17/6 17/9
1000 Palgrave 16/1/64 2/6 2/6
500 Inter. Footwear, new 16/1/64 11/- 12/ —
100 O'Donn. Griffin, rts 20/1/64 8/- 8/4
500 Auto & Gen. Fin.,
notes 21/1/64 26/- 27/6
1000 Eric White 29/1/64 15/6 16/6
200 Philip Morris 29/1/64 38/- 39/6
200 Waugh & Josephson 12/2/64 21/- 21/
2000 Mid Eastern 12/2/64 1/7 1/9
800 Conkeys 13/2/64 15/3 18/
1500 Prasby 18/2/64 2/7 3/-
400 Mt. Isa 26/2/64 43/- 43/6
400 Renison 27/2/64 37/- 36/-


c-; .
1!
" ‘■'s'' VV
S / \ '" :>
..■
/ V,/ IpHll
«fp aI i' * , ? i %i: "I I i. i?
s'' <■
:
: :
i
3
“j% ■.
*• 7* *
a
FREE
to subscribers to
TBENDEX
TRENDEX is a weekly publication setting out the
methods of stock market timing perfected by M. D.
Garretty & Associates. It advises the stock to buy,
the time to buy and the time to sell. TRENDEX
subscribers include most leading share brokers,
bankers, trustee companies, superannuation funds,
investment companies, investment clubs and private
investors.
“Forecasting Australian Stock Prices with Trendex ” is a
comprehensive 72 page book invaluable for investment
planning. Its contents include: —
CHARTING METHODS
Charts as Thermometers of Market Action . . . Bar
Charts . . . Point-and-Figure Charts . . . Price Target
Forecasts from Charts . . . Adjustments to Charts.
TREND LINES
As Aids to Price Forecasting . . . Some Trend Line
Studies.
RELATIVE STRENGTH
How to see which Industry Groups are moving ahead
.. . The Power Curve .. . How to pick the Stocks which
will rise or Fall the Fastest . . . How to get Advance
Warning of Reversals in Stock Prices.
PRICE PATTERNS WHICH FORECAST NOTABLE PRICE MOVES
How Price Patterns are Significant in indicating Import-
ant Price Advances or Reversals to come . . . The Head
and Shoulders Pattern a price reversal pattern . . .
The Fulcrum . . . The V-shaped Bottom Pattern . . .
The Triangle Patterns . . . Wedge, Flag, and Pennant
.. . The Bullish Bracket. . . The One-Day Reversal.
THE SIGNIFICANCE OF TURNOVER
Volume Studies as Aids to Market Interpretation.
SUPPORT AND RESISTANCE LEVELS
Why Price Moves Stop Where They Do . . . Forecasting
Support and Resistance Levels.
BULL AND BEAR MARKETS
The Vital Difference . . . Bull Market Characteristic**
. . . Bear Market Characteristics.
STOCK MARKET INDICATORS
Facts and Fallacies . . . Use of Business and Economic
Trends . . . Lagging and Leading Indicators . ... The
Trendex Stock Market Barometers . . . Census of Stock
Behaviour . . . Cumulative Advance-Decline Line . . .
Advance-Decline Index . . . Buying Power and Selling
Pressure . . . Index of New Highs and New Lows . ..
Stock Indexes as Guides to The Market
COMMODITY FUTURES
The Greasy Wool Futures Market.
MARKET OPERATING TECHNIQUES
Stop Orders to Cut Losses . . . Buying on Stop . . .
Selling on Stop . . . Buying on a Scale Down . . . Other
Techniques.
MARKET PHILOSOPHY
The Theory of Contrary Opinion . . . How to Make
Money by Standing Up when everybody Sits Down . . .
Why you will be Lonely though Wealthy ... The Crowd
is always Wrong when it is Important to be Right . . .
It Can’t Happen Here! ... Or can it? . . . Fallacies in
Economic Forecasting of Stock Prices . . . The News
Follows The Trend . . .Why do you Lose Money by
following The News?
ruENDVA
; r i
M. D. GILRRETTY & ASSOCIATES investment counsellors
PEARL ASSURANCE HOUSE, 151 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE. 67 1309
M. D. GARRETTY & ASSOCIATES, G.P.O. Box 763, MELBOURNE: I am interested in:
□ Subscribing to Trendex (enclosed is remittance of £12.12.- to cover one year’s subscription.
I understand that you will also send, without charge, background material and your book
“Forecasting Australian Stock Prices with Trendex”. All sent airmail in Australia and N.Z.)
□ Receiving a free current copy of Trendex, and of your Booklet describing your Market
Timing Methods.
Tick whichever applicable
NAME.
ADDRESS
G AA7


SECURITY ANALYSIS
British Tobacco Prospects
No growth situation in the short term
Tt is now six and a half years since
British Tobacco Co. (Aust.) Ltd made
its last issue to shareholders and during
that period the dividend rate was reduced
in two of the years, 8 p.c. in 1960-61
and 93 p.c. in 1961-62.
The share price reached a low point
of 21s. during 1962 after being as high
as 495. 3d. during 1960. At the moment,
the shares are around 295. and there
would seem to be room for some
improvement in the price once investors
get over the latest “lung cancer” scare.
There certainly seems to have been
some improvement in profitability over
the last three years, the year to October
31, 1961, being a particularly poor year.
Nevertheless, one must wonder which
are the right figures to be used in forming
an assessment, since there were at least
three possible sets for the five-year period
1957 to 1961 inclusive.
According to the accountants’ report
appearing on pages 5 and 6 of the pros-
pectus of unsecured notes dated Septem-
ber 5, 1962, the adjusted profits of the
group were as shown in column A of
the table below. A fairly superficial glance
at the annual reports would have pro-
duced the figures shown in column B as
they appear under the heading of “net
earnings” in the consolidated profit and
loss account. A more detailed examina-
tion of the annual reports may have pro-
duced the figures shown in column C:—
Year to £'ooo
October 31 ABC
1957 3027 1623 2556
1958 2779 2007 2577
1959 2359 2084 2747
1960 2487 2018 2481
1961 1936 1840 1830
1962 N.A. 2453 2260
1963 N.A. 2507 2472
It is possible, therefore, that in four
out of the five years where a check can
be made, profits varying from 15 p.c. to
5 p.c. of the total were completely
concealed.
1961 onwards the consolidated
profit and loss accounts have been
presented in conformity with the Com-
panies Act and do give information in a
clearer form. Nevertheless, one cannot
say whether any “net amounts set aside
from profits by the directors as provisions
(including income tax provisions) which
have subsequently proved to be in excess
of requirements” should be added back
to disclosed profits in fhe years 1962
and 1963.
The effect on per share earnings would
be fairly dramatic as the following
schedule shows:—
Year to
October 31 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961
Earnings p.c.
prospectus
figures 15.6 14.2 14.7 12.7 9.7
Earnings p.c.
published
Accounts 13.1 13.2 14.1 12.7 9.2
The decline seems to have been far
steeper than the accounts suggested, and
it may well be that the increase from
1961 has been much steeper also. The
discrepancies between the columns B and
C in 1962 and 1963 are due solely to
the exclusion from column C of capital
profits.
The chairman’s review of the 1962-63
year (ended on October 31, 1963) states
that much of the increase in profit was
due to increased cigarette sales. It is
believed that the new brand “Country
Life” has been quite successful and
continues to gain in popularity.
It may be important that, in addition
to cigarettes, the group produces pipe
tobacco and cigars since tobacco in these
forms does not seem to be subject to
the same disfavor, according to recent
reports on health and smoking.
Nevertheless, it is a matter of record
that cigarette consumption has been in-
creasing in recent years at the rate of
over 8 p.c. per annum and consumption
of “cut tobacco” has been falling.
the viewpoint of cigarette sales, an
encouraging section of the chairman’s
review related to the completion of the
reorganisation of sales branch activities.
With improved distribution and effective
advertising there is every reason to
believe that British Tobacco can re-
capture some of the market which it has
lost since 1956 to its competitors.
Whether or not the total market will
continue to increase at the same rate as
in the five years from 1956 to 1961 is
a matter for conjecture at this stage,
but, despite the reports, it is not likely
to decline if only because of the in-
creasing population generally and the
increasing teenage and early twenties
group in particular.
While fairly full details of the trans-
action in the printing and packaging
group have been given in the annual
report, it is difficult at this stage to assess
the likely effect on future earnings avail-
able to the ordinary shareholders of
British Tobacco. At the moment, it
appears that revenue from this source
will decrease next year as “a substantial
but minority” shareholding in the
packaging and printing group has been
sold to Mardon International Ltd.
Judging again by the chairman’s re-
view, no immediate dividend can be
expected from the group’s pastoral in-
terests which were increased during the
year. Furthermore, the passing of the
interim dividend by Bowling Centres
Holdings (which uses AMF equipment)
must make one wonder regarding the
prospects of increasing returns from the
50 p.c. interest in American Machine
& Foundry Company (Aust.) Pty Limited.
then, there does not seem
to be any growth situation within the
British Tobacco Company (Australia)
group in the short term although steady
increases may well occur in the longer
term.
At current levels the shares are yield-
ing 6.9 p.c. and the dividend is covered
li times. With such a return, though,
the shares seem attractive when compared
with the yields that are currently being
received on other stocks. The Melbourne
50 Leader Yield Index is showing yields
just below 4 p.c. and the “London
-sample” less than half of one p.c.
more than this. On average then, the
50 leaders would need to increase
dividend payout by 3 p.c. per annum
compound in perpetuity before they
match the immediate yield from British
Tobacco shares.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (f'MILLION)
Year to
October 31 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 37.5 33.4 35.4 33.4 33.7
Current liabilites 10.0 6.4 10.5 7.3 6.8
Net working
capital 27.5 27.0 24.9 26.1 26.9
Fixed assets 6.0 6.6 8.5 9.2 10.3
Investments 0.9 1.3 1.5 1.8 2.2
Intangibles 4.0 4.0 4.5 5.1 4.5
Total Capital 38.4 38.9 39.4 42.2 43.9
Represented by:
Loan capita! 7.7 7.7 7.9 9.8 9.2
Minority interests 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 2.0
Preference capital 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.7
Ordinary capital 18.7 18.7 18.7 18.7 18.7
Reserves 10.2 10.7 11.0 11.8 12.3
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARY (£'000)
Interest on long
term debts 394 518 530 600 680
Depreciation 633 682 668 798 870
Tax provided 1966 1451 1216 1387 1431
Minority interests 7 7 9 II 32
Pref. dividends 111 111 111 111 ill
Earnings 2636 2370 1719 2149 2362
Ord. dividend 1874 1874 1499 1780 1874
Surplus 762 496 220 369 468
Earnings per share
shillings (a) 2.82 2.52 1.84 2.30 2.52
Dividends per share
shillings (a) 2.00 2.00 1.60 1.90 2.00
Earnings yield
p.c. (b) 6.0 7.6 7.0 8.1 8.7
Dividend yield
p.c. (b) 4.3 6.0 6.1 6.7 6.9
(a) No adjustment has been necessary as ordinary
capital has been unchanged, since 1957.
(b) Based on last sale in month accounts presented
—February in following year.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Plans for Overseas Expansion
Pioneer Concrete has ambitious programme
T>ioneer Concrete Services Ltd
plans greater coverage of country
areas in Queensland, Victoria and South
Australia, the chairman (Sir John
Northcott) told shareholders at the
December annual meeting. (The com-
pany is already well-entrenched in NSW
country districts.)
Sir John also inferred that further
overseas expansion was contemplated,
when he referred to the visit of the
managing director (Mr T. V. Antico) to
countries in which Pioneer is already
established and to some others.
Pioneer’s first overseas venture was
to Hong Kong. The demand there from
the building industry was equal to that
of the Sydney metropolitan area which
late in 1961 had 47 concrete plants.
During 1962-63 subsidiaries came
into production in the UK and Israel.
The UK business is operated jointly
with Imperial Smelting Corporation Ltd,
a subsidiary of Rio Tinto Zinc Corpora-
tion Ltd.
Contracting to builders for the supply
and laying of concrete was begun by
Messrs. Antico and Conley and the
business became a proprietary com-
pany in 1948. Ready-mixed concrete
and marble and terrazzo businesses
were acquired as the first in a long string
of company purchases.
The firm was a pioneer of the lift slab
technique in buildings, and now its
divisions are concrete manufacturing,
concrete placing, quarrying and masonry.
Pioneer partnered CRA’s Fitzpatrick
Industries Ltd in a company, Rio
Pioneer Gravel Co. Pty Ltd, to set up
a plant at Penrith (NSW) to supply the
.sand, gravel and metal needs of
Pioneer’s Sydney subsidiaries.
Economic restrictions did not have
an early impact on Pioneer. In Decem-
ber, 1961, shareholders were told the
company had not been greatly affected
by the recession. But by 1961-62 both
turnover and profit margins were reduced.
Total earnings actually fell from
£288,113 to £274,713 in 1961-62, and
the earning rate on higher capital
plunged from 30.7 to 16.5 p.c.
In the latest year to June 30 the
earnings trend picked up, and profit was
£360,836 after tax of £234,212 and
depreciation of £305,884. The earning
rate was 19.2 p.c. on capital increased
by issues to acquire more businesses and
by placements.
The takeover of a company specialising
in design and manufacture of plastic
finishes and wall panels extended the
services provided to the Sydney building
industry in 1962-63.
Pioneer also moved to Western Aus-
tralia in 1962-63, with purchase of
majority interests in a Perth quarrying
company and a ready-mixed concrete
company.
Paid capital was £2,339,703 after a
one-for-five par issue to shareholders last
October. (There had been two previous
par issues, in 1961 and 1960.)
Profits were affected by Sydney’s
adverse weather in the last four months
of 1962-63 and a substantial and non-
recurring loss on a Brisbane contract.
The price structure, though more
stable than in 1961-62, is still affected
by price cutting. The chairman said
this had delayed development of the
Epping Quarries in Victoria—a hint for
shareholders of other Victorian quarry-
masters.
Profits for the first four months of
1963-64 were in line with budget and
considerably better than the year before.
Directors said the overseas subsidiaries
were now mostly past the establishment
period, and should attain planned profit-
ability this year.
The company expects to maintain the
12i p.c. dividend of the past four years
on capital this year increased by the
one-for-five par issue.
Astronomic growth by takeover has
been handled with managerial skill, but
Pioneer’s star is no longer in the as-
cendant to the degree it was in 1959
and 1960.
Conditions are considerably more com-
petitive with slighter margins than they
were three years ago. The best scope for
enhancing the earning rate will be in
virgin fields overseas.
The ss. shares are more likely to
remain in regular orbit around the 3.6
to 3.5 p.c. yield. At present the price
of 17s. 9d. yields 3.5 p.c. As a par issue
is just out of the way no capital benefit
is likely to supplement this income
return in the near future.
The company has accumulated re-
serves approximating issued capital, but
no capitalisation of any of this could be
expected until the earning rate is
strongly reinforced. Contracting in the
building business must fluctuate with
the economic cycle, and Pioneer has had
an object lesson in over-capitalisation
from a couple of other leaders in the
concrete industry.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 315 573 1719 2163 2895
Less current
liabilities -387 532 1459 2588 2597
Working capital -72 41 260 -425 298
Investments 56 68 60 431 538
Fixed assets 238 728 2651 3345 3830
Intangibles 76 128 48 142
298 965 2971 3399 4808
Deferred liabilities 40 156 287 232 809
Minority interests 49 10 101
Ordinary capital 120 397 1260 1655 1937
Reserves 89 412 1424 1502 1967
298 965 2971 3399 4808
Depreciation 28 48 142 223 306
Taxation 17 67 153 148 234
Net profit 45 107 288 275 361
Dividends 10 52 156 209 234
Surplus 35 55 132 66 127
Earning rate 25.7 30.7 16.5 19.2
Dividend rate 5 12J 12J 12J 12J
Dividend yield (a) 3.5 4.4 3.3 5.5 3.7
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 11.1 12.2 17.5 17.8
High price (b) 18/6 26/6 18/9 24/6 17/3
Low price (b) 14/- 13/- 13/9 14/5 11/-
(a) End of December, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
CASBEN PRODUCTIONS LTD
Sports Wear Firm’s Troubles
Productions Ltd is well
known throughout Australia as
manufacturer and exporter of top
quality sports wear. It acquired Stock
Exchange listing late in 1951, but since
then profit has fluctuated between
£25,163 (in 1952-53) and £43,874
(in 1959-60) except for two losses, one
in 1957 of £9765 and the other last year
of £44,497.
On both occasions the principal
trouble was incorrect assessment of the
market. Last year’s trading was further
complicated by abnormal summer
weather conditions, resulting in a build-
up of made-up stocks which had to be


sold at a loss and the heavy discounting
of fashion goods.
Accounts for the year to April 30
last show a sharp decline in liquidity.
Bank overdraft trebled from £54,549
to £162,958. A small mortgage of
£6362 also appears in the accounts.
Despite the writedowns, stock is
slightly higher—up from £344,928 to
£351,193 while both debtors and
creditors are virtually unchanged.
Investment in land and buildings rose
from £77,957 to £101,437 during the
year, but since balance date the plants
at Wollongong and Weston, near New-
castle, have been closed.
Increasing emphasis has been placed
on export business and, following two
missions by company representatives,
promotion agencies have been established
in six countries in South-east Asia.
Paid-up capital is £206,250 in ss.
ordinary shares and £30,000 in 6 p.c.
preference shares held by the MLC. The
preference shares are redeemable at the
annual rate of £2OOO.
Ordinary share issues since the place-
ment of 160,000 ss. shares at 7s. 6d
plus charges in 1951 have been a one-
for-four at par in 1954 and a year later
a one-for-two, also at par.
Reserve position is good although the
latest loss reduced net assets backing
of each ss. ordinary share from Bs. 9d.
to 7s. 7d. Intangibles were written out
of the books in 1960-61.
The current year has opened slowly,
turnover and profit for the first six
months being below that of the previous
corresponding period. (The setback in
1962-63 occurred in the second half
of the year.)
The market appears to have over-
looked this latest point in pricing the
shares at 2s. 10d., the lowest point for
more than five years.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
April 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 420 447 511 456 462
Less current
liabilities 214 215 275 215 $2BB
Working capital 206 232 236 241 174
Fixed assets 151 145 151 151 175
Intangibles 37 37
394 414 387 392 349
Represented by
Pref. capital 37 36 34 32 30
Ord capital 206 206 206 206 206
Capital reserves 15 15 15
Other reserves 136 157 132 154 107
Mortgage 6
394 414 387 392 349
Depreciation (a)5 12 11 11 12
Taxation (a) 10 31 28 18 2
Net profit (a)2O 44 35 24 -44
Ord. dividend (a) 10 21 21 21
Pref. dividend (a) 1 2 2 2 2
Surplus (a)9 21 12 1
Dividend p.c. (a)5 10 10 10
Earnings p.c. (b) 15.9 20.3 16.1 10.5
Dividend yield (c) 5 6.7 8.3 8.7
High price (d) 6/3 8/- 6/6 6/6 5/6
Low price (d) 3/10 5/6 5/9 4/11 3/3
(a) For seven months.
(b) Annual basis. v
(c) End of August, month accounts presented.
(d) Calendar year.
STEGGLES HOLDINGS LTD
Money in Poultry Raising
HThe expansion by Steggles Holdings
Ltd into the raising and processing
of poultry for table consumption was a
logical move because for several years
it had been the main supplier of feed
to the industry in the Newcastle and
northern NSW areas.
Steggles was formed in 1958 to
acquire two companies which had opera-
ted in the Newcastle and Wyong dis-
tricts for some time as makers of stock
and poultry feed, and produce and bag
merchants.
Stock Exchange listing was achieved
by the sale to the public of 230,400 ss.
shares at par, and the company came on
the market with a paid-up capital of
£252,500 all in ordinary shares.
Main manufacturing facilities were
eventually built at Beresfield near New-
castle while expansion was continued
by the acquisition of businesses at
Wyong, Windsor and Taree.
Most of these deals were financed by
share issues, although existing share-
holders have participated in two cash
issues, both at par, a one-for-five issue
in 1960 and the other a one-for-four
issue in 1962, lifting paid-up capital to
£500,000.
The latter issue was used to finance
construction of a poultry processing
plant at Beresfield. The birds went on
the market late in 1962 and, despite
strong competition, results satisfied.
Profit has doubled, from £37,326 to
£76,849 in the past five years, but
because of the growth in capital, earn-
ing rate has been fairly stable around
last year’s 16.6 p.c. Nevertheless the
earnings have given a good cover to
the 10 p.c. dividend rate paid each year
since listing.
The latest accounts for the year to
June 30 show the large investment in
fixed assets. Plant at £343,541 is almost
double the investment of £192,980 two
years earlier, while land is up from
£293,816 to £368,522 in the same period.
As well as bank overdraft (£138,419
at last balance date) the company depends
a great deal on deposits at call for
finance. At last balance date these stood
at £170,128 (up from £145,868 a year
earlier).
The reserves position is strong with
capital reserves of £119,183 sufficient
for a one-for-five bonus. With goodwill
on consolidation in the books at
£205,139, net assets backing of each
ss. share is 6s. 3d.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 259 318 419 449 496
Less current
liabilities 249 270 379 400 363
Working capital 10 48 40 49 133
Fixed assets 350 381 487 578 712
Goodwill 198 198 188 206 205
558 627 715 833 1050
Represented by:
Capital 253 253 338 423 500
Capital reserves 59 59 59 77 119
Other reserves 117 133 163 186 213
Deposits 36 101 141 146 170
Loans 93 81 14 1 48
558 627 715 833 1050
Depreciation 9 15 22 27 35
Taxation 27 30 36 34 30
Net profit 37 42 52 60 77
Dividend 25 25 30 36 46
Surplus 12 17 22 24 31
Dividend p.c. 10 10 10 10 10
Earning p.c. 14.8 16.7 17.6 16.8 16.6
Dividend yield (a) 4.6 5.1 7.1 5.7 5.9
High price (b) 11/- 10/- 9/3 9/6 9/2
Low price (b) 6/3 8/- 7/- 7/- 7/9
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.


The Best People
Being the best people in the busi-
ness—we want the best people to
work with us.
At the moment we are looking for
Programmers and Consultants—
experienced and inexperienced.
If these titles are strange to you,
an aptitude test will quickly tell us
whether your future lies in this
exciting profession.
PLEASE WRITE TO US
ENGLISH ELECTRIC
English Electric-LEO-Computors
Pty. Limited
194 Miller St., North Sydney
or
170 William St., Melbourne
CIVIL ENGINEER-MANAGER
is required for
DELTA CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.
PORT MORESBY, N.G.
DUTIES: To exercise managerial control over a variety of
construction projects in New Guinea. Current contracts
include construction of wharves, roads and bridges. He
would also —through the Building Supervisor—control
large building projects.
QUALIFICATIONS: A graduate Civil Engineer with man-
agerial project experience. Preferred age range 30-40.
CONDITIONS:
• Commencing salary in the vicinity of £3,500.
• Bonus scheme based on profitability of projects.
• Company furnished house provided free.
• Car supplied.
• Superannuation and generous leave provisions.
APPLICATIONS: Confidential. Please detail experience in
writing and include phone numbers, to: “Position
QF 45”.
Executive Selection Division
JOHN P. YOUNG AND ASSOCIATES
(QLD.) PTY. LTD.
Management Consultants,
375 Wickham Terrace, Brisbane,
or to our offices in Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth.
Business and Pleasure, Too
A lthough a personal plane or helicopter is still beyond the
range of most industrialists other than Messrs R. M.
Ansett and M. V. Richardson, some Australian businessmen,
notably in Sydney, are finding boats an economic proposition
as private transport.
Expenditure of round about £3OOO can secure a workman-
like cruiser to transport its owner from waterfront home in
eastern suburbs or the lower North Shore, to waterside fac-
tory up the Lane Cove or Parramatta Rivers.
A 22-foot Danish cruiser which survived an Atlantic cross-
ing under its own power and had been chosen for salmon
fishing in Greenland and police patrolling of traffic on the
River Danube, should be equally at home on the enclosed
waters of Sydney Harbor or outside the Heads for a week-
end fishing trip.
Then there’s always the chance of claiming a portion of run-
ning costs as entertainment expenses for business associates
an allowable deduction for income tax purposes.
Melb. Exchange on the Move
rFHE plans for the Stock Exchange of Melbourne’s new build-
ing have entered their first stage. A company called “351
Collins Street Ltd” has been formed with a nominal capital
of £1 million. There are seven directors —three SE committee
members, three ANZ Bank officers, and a solicitor.
The company will be jointly owned by the SE and the ANZ
Bank. Presumably the solicitor will have the casting vote in
the event of any disagreement between the two parties.
As yet, it is not known whether the directors will hold any
shares this will be decided by the company’s “directors’
qualifications” which have apparently not yet been set down.
The 26-story building is due for completion in 1968 and
will be occupied by the two parties.
There will also be 137,000 square feet of office space to
let and an arcade of shops will run from Collins Street through
to Flinders Lane.
To date there have been many inquiries for office space,
mainly from stockbrokers in the existing building.
At present, the SE is planning to sell its old building as it
must bear half the cost of the new £3 million building.
Federal Loan Success
Treasurer Holt can still afford to be pleased about
the success of the third Commonwealth cash loan for
1963-64. Proceeds of £77.5 million gave an oversubscription
of £7.5 million.
A 1963-64 loan target at around £3OO million was set in
the last Budget. Favorable results from a fourth loan, which
seem guaranteed by prevailing liquidity conditions, would
allow Mr Holt to achieve his present desire of a smaller overall
deficit and also to finance more Goverment expenditure from
borrowings.
British Bank Rate Corrective
/"\n the traditional Thursday, British Bank Rate last week
was fairly gently elevated from four to five p.c., its
first upward movement since July, 1961. A corrective rise
can hardly have been unexpected.
Quite a few economists and even one or two semi-official
pundits are talking about signs of “overheating” in the UK
economy. The present mild disciplinary action may save wider
punishment later.
The Bank of England sounded especially careful in explain-
ing that the rise was designed to steady the economy’s expan-
sion rate. No substantial inflow of short-term funds is wanted.


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Not Much to Smile About
Australia's " voluntary ” meat agreement with US
Tn the old Wild West it was considered
A the sensible thing to smile and hand
over your money when characters like
Billy the Kid pointed a six-gun at your
head.
Now that Australia has had the gun
pointed at her over meat exports to the
United States, what else is there to do
but smile?
Apparently not much, but it seems a
pity that the Minister for Trade, “Black-
jack” McEwen was unable to produce a
Derringer to help even the score. His
earlier statement that we would “stand
firm” seems to have been no more than
a figure of speech.
The new meat marketing agreement
came more rapidly than most people in
the business imagined, and, as pointed
out in the Man on the Land (The
Bulletin, Feb. 8) there was plenty of
warning that the US was going to crack
down.
But what many beef raisers in this
country will wonder at is the attitude of
the Australian Government that some-
how we have scored a victory!
We haven’t much to be smiling about,
really.
Of course, in the broad sense of Aus-
tralian-American relations, such matters
as defence would weigh more heavily
and obviously it is vitally important that
we keep on good terms with Uncle Sam.
But compare our placid acceptance of
the meat agreement, for example, with
Britain’s determination to continue sell-
ing goods to Cuba despite US anger.
Tt will be surprising if Australian Labor
A does not make capital of the meat
deal to point out that a crack down here
on some American-owned enterprises
here would have been justified.
Whether it would, really, is another
question, of course, and probably it
wouldn’t. Nevertheless, the objection
raised by meat exporters here that the
deal went through without proper con-
sideration of the views of Australian
exporters and US importers and meat
packers does appear to be valid.
What efforts really did Australia make
to enlist the aid of a large section of
American thought which was on our
side?
The United States has restricted the
entry of our meats directly as a result
of opposition by the American cattle-
men's associations.
President Johnson, a rancher himself,
is sympathetic to these interests, but it
is possible to overrate their importance
in the vast American complex. Even in
Texas these days beef raising is fairly
minor in comparison with oil and manu-
facturing.
MPhe point that most Australians have
missed is that this agreement will
appear in the United States as a “volun-
tary” move by Australia, and to some
extent we will gain favorably in the
public relations sense.
But the United States has been able
to avoid the step of official legislation
on meat imports which, while it would
have delighted the ranching interests,
would also have offended a large section
of American opinion which does believe
in freer world trade.
WE know that we have cut back
because of US pressure, but Americans
generally will believe we have voluntarily
decided to do it.
The new agreement provides for
242,000 tons of beef, veal and mutton
to be exported to the US this year. This
is a drop of 15,000 tons on exports last
year.
The agreement does provide that in
each year after 1964 there will be a rise
in the Australian'quota corresponding to
the estimated rate of increase in the US
market. The Australian quota will rise
by 9000 tons a year—probably.
This is peanuts compared with our
yearly increases in recent years. Last
year we exported 257,000 tons, worth
about £79 million. The year before it
was 221,000 tons and the year before
that, 132,000 tons. Six years ago exports
were virtually nil.
As Mr McEwen has pointed out, we
have achieved a measure of security.
At least we have access to the US
market: in fairly definite terms. But have
we security? For the agreement also
provides that either country may curtail
the deal by giving six months’ notice.
It is to be hoped that the US ranching
interests are satisfied —as yet there is no
indication that they are —and withdraw
their plea to Congress to impose a hard
and fast boycott of foreign meat imports.
In Sydney the chairman of the Aus-
tralian Meat Board, Mr J. L. Shute,
echoed Mr McEwen’s views and added
that there were strong prospects of in-
creased exports to Europe and to Asia
to take up the slack.
On Europe there would appear to be
some likelihood of success —in a limited
way—and in Asia the old problem of
price will have to be overcome.
On the home front there must be a
falling off in prices for beef, mutton and
veal in coming months.
Production for the five months ended
November was up 10,000 tons on the
previous year.
Some of the spectacular plans for big
scale beef raising particularly in
Queensland may now have to be
shelved.
On a smaller scale many mixed farmers
who have been doing well out of beef
recently will find that the profit margin
will come back to that of the usual run
of farming enterprises 21 to 3 p.c.
. . . not too bad, perhaps, but not
enough to warrant extensive pasture
improvement or farm expansion.
There seems to be a case for better
public relations on Australia’s behalf in
the United States. Most Australians who
have spent any time there have
experienced the unnerving attitude of
so many Americans that Australia gets
some kind of foreign aid from the US
and therefore has no right to object to
anything.
nPHE very structure of US politics also
A is rarely understood —the powers
of the States, the vast web of pressure
groups within pressure groups, and the
genuine American desire, in many cases,
to settle differences before they get to
Washington.
With the right sort of approach the
American ranching interests may never
have taken up the stop-meat-imports
attack.
Be that as it may, the thing has been
done and we will have to make the best
of it. It now only needs the Red China
wheat market to recede and farming
generally in this country would be in
real trouble.
We may, whether we like it or not,
be entering into an era of farm subsidy
similar to the United States. Spokesmen
for primary industry have already warned
members of Federal Cabinet in Canberra
of the danger of rising costs, and the
Prime Minister, Sir Robert Menzies, has
called the talks “most useful and in-
formative”.
If the Restrictive Trade Practices


move of the Government proves to be
a fizzer, as well it might, heavy farm
subsidies appear inevitable because it has
been shown that the bulk of farm costs
are in areas where restrictive trade
practices do operate.
Those already in farming will gain a
measure of relief and one or two budding
Billy Sol Estes will possibly make a good
thing of it. But talk of filling up Aus-
tralia’s empty lands will lose much of its
purpose and meaning.
Karachi’s Putrid Milk
How Australia is helping Pakistan
From RONALD ANDERSON in Karachi
T have just watched an interesting ex-
periment, conducted by a United
Nations aid adviser to Pakistan.
In front of one of the scraggy street-
urchin buffaloes the UN man placed
two piles. One pile was of green fodder.
The other of old cigarette cartons. The
buffalo ate the cigarette cartons first . . .
and with every appearance of relish.
The animal’s choice was not really
surprising. Karachi's buffaloes never see
green grass or the types of cattle fodder
normal in Australia or Europe.
They are scavengers, wandering the
streets of the city and feeding on garbage
of every kind . . . including paper, cig-
arette butts and rags.
Buffaloes supply 95 per cent of Kar-
achi’s milk; the other 5 per cent comes
from even more scraggy and disease-
ridden cows, kept under similar circum-
stances.
The milk from these beasts is then
diluted anything up to 100 per cent with
water by the cyclist-vendors who hawk
it from door to door.
The water, of course, usually comes
from the nearest ditch or drain, or per-
haps the community tap or well. If
anything, it is even more disease-laden
than the milk. The result is a cocktail
likely to carry anything from amoebic
dysentery to cholera.
This is not guesswork. All these state-
ments have been confirmed by UN
scientists who have conducted surveys
and bacteria counts in Karachi, Lahore
and other Pakistan cities.
TThs is the background to Australia’s
A selection of a milk treatment plant
for the West Pakistan capital of Lahore
as one of the projects it will support
with money raised by the Australian
Freedom From Hunger Appeal.
The plant for Lahore a city with
a population of more than 2 million •
will be a replica of one built by UNICEF
and shortly to go into production in
Karachi.
Total cost of the Lahore plant will be
£708,000, part of which will be met by
the Pakistan Government. The Austra-
lian contribution is expected to be about
£222,000.
The plant is expected to have an init-
ial daily capacity of 5,500 gallons, with
scope for extension to 33,000 gallons a
day as demand grows.
The milk will be drawn chiefly from
buffaloes in the surrounding district. As
buffalo milk has roughly double the fat
content of cows’ milk the buffalo milk
will be “toned”. This means water will
be added to reduce the fat content to
about 2 per cent and the protein content
will be increased by the addition of skim
milk powder.
Most of the toned milk will be sold
in bulk through special booths in con-
gested, low-income areas of Lahore
a large part, it is hoped, going to children.
In some areas the milk will be sold
at a special low price, made possible by
Pakistan Government subsidies. The
normal sales price will be the equivalent
of a little under 6d. a pint, but this will
be reduced by 20 per cent for needy
families and milk will also be distri-
buted free at mother-and-child centres.
After free and subsidised distribution,
third priority will go to Government hos-
pitals and other welfare institutions.
At present the milk consumption of
Lahore’s population—still swollen
greatly by refugees who fled from near-
by India at the time of partition in 1947
averages less than one-twelfth of a
pint per head daily. Almost all of this is
drunk in tea, the national drink of
Pakistan.
With the setting up of the milk treat-
ment plant, which will, of course, pas-
teurise and homogenise all its milk, the
authorities hope to organise milk co-
operatives in surrounding villages.
This will have a twofold purpose. It
will enable the removal of cattle and
buffaloes from the streets of Lahore,
with an end to the present traffic chaos
they cause, and it will permit supervision
over milk production.
Once efficient co-operatives are estab-
lished it will be possible to build up
disease-free herds, make sure the animals
are fed reasonably well and that the
milk is no longer handled in the present
insanitary fashion. Funds will be made
available from the working capital of the
treatment plant to enable the setting up
of the village co-operatives.
In return for Australia’s participation,
through FAO and UNICEF, the Pakistan
Government will guarantee to maintain
its milk subsidy for at least 10 years.
Work is already under way on the
Lahore scheme and the present date for
commencing operations is March, 1965.
Projects in Pakistan as in most
Asian countries have a habit of fall-
ing behind schedule, however. This has
occurred with the Karachi milk treatment
plant, which was originally expected to
be in operation early last year, but is
now expected to begin processing on a
limited scale this month.
In Karachi’s case, apart from con-
struction delays, the chief problem has
been the organising of a reliable and
adequate supply of milk to the plant.
This has been complicated by a drought
in the surrounding area and the Sind
desert to the north. (The whole region
is only semi-desert at the best of times.
But the worth of the whole scheme,
which ultimately envisages improved and
enlarged milk supplies for all Pakistanis
major cities, is beyond question.
Australia’s participation, although still
relatively unpublicised in Pakistan, is
a logical step. New Zealand has long been
recognised for her impressive contribu-
tions to similar milk treatment schemes
in major cities in India and it is only
right that Australia, as a major dairying
nation, should make available her know 1 -
ledge (and money) in the same field.
Saving Sheep From
Heliotrope
TCWperiments now being made suggest
that heavy doses of cobalt may best
prevent sheep losses, especially among
young sheep, due to grazing on pastures
infested with heliotrope.
This poisonous weed begins flowering
in January, when it is most dangerous!,
so that treatment should be given earlier,
The recommended dose is two cobalt
bullets per head, to be given by moutli,
using some form of a gun to get the
bullets far enough back in the sheep’s
throat.
A special gun is now available, but a
good substitute for this is a short lengtli
of half-inch plastic hose, with a wire or
cane plunger to thrust the bullets well
back in the sheep’s mouth.
After the bullets have been given, sheep
should be watched for a few moments,
as some can bring back and spit out
the bullets.
The cobalt apparently counteracts the
toxic alkaloid released when the helio-
trope is being digested in the rumen, but
further research is still needed to deter-
mine exactly how it does so, and the
most effective dose against this vege-
table poison.
MARIEL LEE


HALE SCHOOL
Wembley Downs
requires
MASTER IN CHARGE OF
SCIENCE DEPARTMENT
Applicants must have good Degree in Physical
Sciences and substantial teaching experience.
The Department includes Physics and Chemistry
at all levels, as well as Biology, Geology and
Agricultural and General Science. The success-
ful applicant will be required to teach Physics
and Chemistry up to Matriculation level, with
emphasis on Chemistry desirable.
Salary, related to experience and qualifications,
in line with Western Australian Education
Department (Basic Scale up to £2,113 per
annum).
Applications in writing, stating age, marital
state, qualifications, experience and religious
denomination, and enclosing testimonials and
the names of two Referees should be addressed
to —
THE HEADMASTER, HALE SCHOOL
Wembley Downs, Western Australia
Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: WILLIAM PATRICK MOULE. TAKE
NOTICE that Olive Adelaide Moule has filed
a petition for divorce No. 3998 of 1963 on
the ground of desertion. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before 6th April,
1964, and obtain a copy of the petition and
Notice of Petition without charge from A.
W. Simpson & Co., Solicitors, 121 Faulkner
Street, Armidale. If you do not wish to defend
but wish to obtain copies of all documents
filed herein you must file a Notice of Address
for Service on or before such date.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF QUEENSLAND
TO: EDWARD JANUS whose present where-
abouts are unknown. TAKE NOTICE that
LIDIA JANUS of 7 Mountjoy Street, Buranda,
Brisbane, in the State of Queensland has
commenced an action against you for the dis-
solution of marriage by Mat. Pet. No. 64 of
1964 on the grounds of desertion and separa-
tion. IF YOU WISH to defend this action
you must file an answer in the Registry of
the Supreme Court at Brisbane aforesaid
within twenty-eight days from the date of
publication hereof. You may obtain without
charge a copy of the petition and the notice
of petition from Messieurs Stephens and
Tozer, Solicitors of Manchester Unity Build-
ing, 231-235 George Street, Brisbane, afore-
said. — E. P. LARACY, Second Deputy Regis-
trar.
TO: SAMUEL HERBERT HANCOCK Formerly
of Bunbury, W.A. TAKE NOTICE that your
wife WINIFRED MARGARET HANCOCK has
presented a petition to the Supreme Court
of Western Australia for a Decree of dissolu-
tion of marriage against you on the ground
of your failure to pay maintenance and seek-
ing Orders also for custody, maintenance and
costs. If you wish to defend the Petition or
institute proceedings against the Petitioner
you must file an Answer in the Central Office
of the '’Supreme Court of Western Australia
at Perth within 28 days after the date of this
publication. In default of your so doing the
suit may proceed and the Court will pro-
nounce judgment and make Orders against
you in your absence. DATED the 19th day of
February, 1964. —G. J. BOYBON, Registrar.
Black Leg, Black Rot
and Ring Spot
T>lack leg has been a serious problem
on some properties in crucifer grow-
ing areas, especially in the last couple of
seasons. Mr W. Martindale, horticultural
adviser with the Victorian Department of
Agriculture, says that black leg disease
as well as black rot and ring spot, is car-
ried on the seed coat as well as being
soil borne.
Polluted seed beds or fields are also a
source of infection. At least a four-year
rotation away from crucifers is con-
sidered necessary to remove the organism
from infected fields or seed beds.
To ensure that there is no risk of in-
fecting seedlings from organisms car-
ried on the seed coat, the following heat
treatment should be done: Seed should be
tied loosely in easily wettable bags
not more than 1 lb a bag to allow
quick, even penetration of the hot water
and immersed in a water bath at a con-
stant temperature of 122 deg. for 30
minutes in the case of cabbage and for
20 minutes for cauliflowers and Brussels
sprouts.
After treatment the seed is dried off
by rubbing lightly on newspaper and then
spread out to dry in a warm, well-aired
room, but not in direct sunlight. When
dry, dust with a seed protectant.
Suffolk Ram for NZ
npHE Stonehaven Suffolk Stud of
Kerang, Victoria, has sold the ram
Stonehaven N. 26 of 1962 to Mr J. A.
Lampp, of Marton, NZ. In spite of a long
and roundabout sea voyage, the ram ar-
rived in excellent condition.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 786
ACROSS
I—A paper’s liars are involved in fresh valuations.
(12)
9—A bogus protest against the evil-smelling hair
wash. (7)
10— Boy doubled a fodder crop. (7)
11— Poetry giving heart to a falsetto cry. (5)
12 — Flora making the ship of the desert sail back. (9)
14—Pertaining to a bone in the arm. (6)
16—Grosser rank that is in credit. (8)
19—He for whom the fair sex goes makes Manly sad.
(5, 3)
20—Esmond to be abundant in
regard. (6)
22—Misdeed by Henry having one
direction of Ceylon. (9)
24 Xavier ' with a band cut
around Georgia. (5)
25 An explosive alternative to a
hazard to sailors and yachts-
men, etc. (7)
26 A turned in parent has to
take musical direction! (7)
27 Knave fed up with the dig-
gers. (4, 2,6)
DOWN
1— Play with corroded brass?
(5, 6)
2 Deserted an orchestra with
Id. (9)
3 Student dog to be seen be-
fore 1.50. (5)
4 Swear to the truth of _one
versus a pained cry. (6)
5 Malingerers’ shipborne nail-
driver. (8)
6 Divers need these 51 cats.
(9)
7 Vegetable ape is in disorder.
(3)
8 — Live in a swamp in the arid
regions of South Africa. (4)
13—Very palatable Rugby forma-
tion needs physical training
acknowledgments of debt.
(ID
15—Trade Union’s vehicle or a
redskin. (9)
17— How’s Ned Lang abroad.
(2,7)
18— Erab? (8)
21—An agent acts on another’s
order to reduce. (6)
23 When I’m gone into an
Alaskan port. (4)
24 — Brittle credit given to one
sort of turf information. (5)
25 Ming silver. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 785


m
m
mm
ml
i!
m
mu
m
pul
m
mh
Ilfs
m
ml
m
m
m
ms
mm
mS
r
mm
m
■n/:
m
ill
Mm
mss
its
m
m
s®
■H
.
gS
H
ca
■
v :
■
rt
,~~£S
" S: fflfcv
>
-4
18-'
0
IS
.a p « m m
RPUiJIJk
SjgpLS
2
:c
CG
Sii*;
■
I MM PkfMMM
Wtffi***
0
fTlr- ■ J
,>S
w*
51
'r.:
■ S~r/*
THE BULLETIN looks back on a crowded past,
forward to an exciting future. Every week,
the world is presented to Australia, Australia
to the world, in the pages of THE BULLETIN. Fill
in the coupon below and have THE BULLETIN
posted to you every week.
NAME
ADDRESS
Subscription Department, The Bulletin, Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney
*N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Malaysian Subscriptions to Marican & Sons (Malaysia) Ltd.,
321 Jalan Tuanku Abdul Rahman, KUALA LUMPUR, and
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for months subscription
to THE BULLETIN.
'New Zealand readers may have their copies air freighted (£4 4s. N.Z. for
52 issues, £2 12s. for 26 issues) or by surface mail (£3 7s. N.Z. for 52
issues £2 2s. for 26 issues).
The Bulletin


'. * .-X
■ .
: ■ ; .. :
8
■ V
vA<i
ft,
m
’■■iv'-T
. .
SH 8
- ■;■>
?■**»
*** ***
S i
#^i|g
B I
ac
R
*•<4^
SM £ltt *& *’** ' *9* *?
|Fs
'
"ss
ar
k£
UJ
WMBMMmMfflmmMßßSßsmßfflk
' -
''ii'iflSi .
v; ■/, -
SfM
i 1
' :
-\ .. ■
A. rather special watch from the Geneva collection, Omega super-thin in 18 ct. yellow gold case,
complete with 18 ct. gold bracelet £lBO.
Omega style-setter for the man
who wants a watch that is different
A slim personalised watch with a high precision movement
This Omega super-thin model has been
specially created for the man who,
whilst still demanding a high-precision
wrist watch that will last him for many
years, has certain individual ideas about
its external appearance.
With its classic, orthodox design, it
keeps step with the very latest trends.
You have to see this watch sideways to
appreciate its ama2ing slimness.
It measures less than one-seventh of an
inch in height! Yet for all its distin-
guished slimness, the super-thin is an
authentic high precision Omega time-
piece.
The super-thin is truly a triumph of the
watchmakers’ art.
The movement is, of course, shock
protected and antimagnetic.
And, like all other Omega watches, the
super-thin is backed by the renowned
Omega World Service Organisation and
carries a one-year International Guaran-
tee, honoured in 129 countries which
covers all contingencies except fire, loss
or theft.
Some day you, too, will own an Omega.
n
OMEGA
