

The Bulletin
Incorporating the Australian financial times
BRITAIN’S
NEW IMAGE
THE HARD SELL
AustmtjnjV, 7onl„ n A ?/. Mninvcln *SJL


■
-
11
.
'■ 5
' j
llJSlg
EsSCfe#
.
Kill
lllS 1111.1
wm*
£/ .. *
4 '■ ■ :
m
■ V"
mmM
.
: ' r "\
-*
t 4*o
tft vM *o* oV*m I3S YftAKS
g&TAiIUS««O
Act a **rywrr
©o«u»t«0
or
Kon*«e
FINEST
SCOTCH WHISKY
&urN«fe o * ssTtLCO ev _
SfiIURS
BGfTtuCa IN S'JOTMNO
s» **
v»*
Pf
WHO SAYS
“BOO”
TO A GOOSE?
Ever said “boo” to an irate goose? Someone at
Ballantine’s once did, and lost the argument. As a
result, the famous Dumbarton Distillery installed
a unique burglar alarm —70 white geese. All dedi-
cated to help protect Ballantine’s against intruders.
Disturb even one of them and a harsh cackling en-
sues, summoning the entire bodyguard. Their shrill
cacophony is guaranteed to stop any trespasser
in his tracks and quickly alert the authorities.
A clock-round watch by the Ballantine’s geese
ensures that the forty-two whiskies, mostly from
the Highlands, that lie in oak casks in the vast
warehouses, can mature in peace; can mellow in
the moist Scottish atmosphere undisturbed.
Expertly blended, these whiskies will one day
become Ballantine’s —the Superb Scotch.
Is it worth taking all this trouble to protect
Ballantine’s? Try it, see what you think!
THE MORE YOU KNOW ABOUT SCOTCH, THE MORE YOU LIKE BALLANTINE’S


SUNDRY
SHOWS
THEATRE
SYDNEY
Elizabethan, Newtown. 51 6734. Elizabethan
Trust Opera Company and the Australian
Ballet. Until October 17. Ballets: Roundelay,
Prince Igor and Aurora. (All three reviewed
3/10/64.) Operas: Carmen (Reviewed
19/9/64); Cosi Fan Tutte (Reviewed 26/9/64);
Macbeth, The Wise Woman and Catulli
Carmina. (Last three reviewed 15/8/64.)
Her Majesty's, Central Square. 211 0472. The
lights come on again with Camelot, Lerner
and Loewe's extravagant musical set for an-
other long run from October 17.
Ensemble, North Sydney. 92 2181. The Re-
hearsal. (Reviewed 12/9/64.) By Jean
Anouilh. Until November 7.
Independent, North Sydney. 92 2718. The
Aspern Papers. (Reviewed 10/9/64.) Michael
Redgrave's adaptation of Henry James's telling
tale. Production by John Trevor. Began
October 1. Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays
only.
Phillip, Elizabeth Street. 61 9880. Is Australia
Really Necessary? After some months play-
housing the Phillip returns to revue. With
Miriam Karlin, Red Moore and the delec-
table Darlene Johnson. Weak scripts, funny
performances.
Music Hall Restaurant, Neutral Bay. 90 1237.
How The West Was Lost. Noeline Brown,
John Unicomb and Sheila Kennedy help make
this still one of the best nights in town.
Meanwhile, The Little Mermaid, Saturday
matinee for children, continues. Booking is
advised for both.
Palace, Pitt Street. 61 6287. Boeing Boeing.
(Reviewed 14/3/64.) Is back with Peter Jones
and Co. Still gets off the ground in all the
same places. But there's now a better end-
ing.
Pocket Playhouse, Sydenham. 55 6411. The
Brass Butterfly. By William Golding, based
on his novella "Envoy Extraordinary" Per-
formances at 8 p.m., Friday and Saturday.
Doctor in the House. Adaptation by Ted
Willis. The Pocket is now putting this on
at 6.30 p.m. on Thursdays to attract, they
say, young people on their way home from
work. The Pied Piper. By Robert Browning.
Saturday matinees for children. This, if you
are interested, is booked out until February,
1965.
Q Group, lunch-hour plays, AMP Theatrette,
Circular Quay. 2 0530. A Wicked, Wicked
Woman. With Ron Haddrick and Arlene Dor-
gan. The sandwiches and coffee are still
good. Until October 19.
Royal, Castlereagh Street. 28 8255. A Funny
Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum.
(Reviewed 22/8/64.) A very funny musical,
set for a long stay.
Tivoli, Castlereagh Street. 211 4288. Lilac
Time. The critics didn't find it too fragrant,
but it's doing quite well. Closes October 17.
MELBOURNE
Emerald Hill Theatre, Dorcas Street. 69 3319.
Sergeant Musgrave's Dance. John Arden's pro-
duction. September 30 to October 17 Tues-
days to Saturdays.
Her Majesty's, Exhibition Street. 32 3211.
The Roaring Twenties. Variety show for
those with similar tastes to Mr Harry Wren.
From October 6 for five weeks.
Princess, Spring Street. 321211. Carousel. An-
other big musical, this time the Rodgers and
Hammerstein.
Tivoli, Bourke Street. 63 2111. The Omsk
Siberian Dance Company, still as unsophisti-
cated as ever.
Union Theatre. Enquiries to 42 1266. Festival of
new play successes. Peter Ustinov's Photo
Finish began September 28. Nightly until
October 17.
ADELAIDE
Her Majesty's, 54 Grote Street. 51 6171. Black
and White Minstrel Show. Closes October 24.
BRISBANE
Her Majesty's, Queen Street. 2 1777. How to
Succeed in Business Without Really Trying.
JCW's bright production of the American
musical. Until October 17.
Arts Theatre, Petrie Terrace. 36-5009. Queens-
land's first lunch-hour theatre at David Jones
Auditorium, October 12-16.
ART
SYDNEY
Art Gallery of NSW, Domain. 28 9860.
British Domestic Silver, 1660-1910. The
silver exhibition, from the Victoria and
Albert Museum, a very large one with 93
items, is the first exhibition of silver of any
consequence to be held in this country. Closes
October 25.
Barry Stern Gallery, 28 Glenmore Road, Pad-
dington. 31 7676. Doreen Gadsby. Paintings
of old Sydney. David Guy Dunn. Jewellery.
Until November 2.
Blaxland Gallery, George Street. 2 0150. Con-
temporary Art Society's Annual Interstate
Exhibition, including the R. H. Taff's £5OO
prizewinner. October 14-26.
Commonwealth Savings Bank (Martin Place
entrance). 2 0155. Blake Society For
Religious Art. Showing of 58 entries includes
prize-winning painting. Closes October 14.
Frances Jones Studio, 7 James Street, Woollahra.
32 3251. Various charity shov'ings weekly
until Christmas.
Hungry Horse, 47 Windsor Street, Paddington.
31 5087. Emmanuel Raft. Paintings by the
Egypt-born artist. Until October 15.
Page
NORMAN LINDSAY 28
The latest boom
AROUND MELROURNE ... 31
RUSINESS AND FINANCE . 57
CROSSWORD 82
FORUM 35
LETTERS 39
MAN ON THE LAND 79
NATIONAL NOTEROOK . . 9
OVERSEAS 33
PLAIN ENGLISH 13
TANNER 12
THIS AUSTRALIA 14
SHORT STORY 44
SPECULATOR’S DIARY . . 78
The Peace Ramp 14
“Do You Remember The Palais de
Danse?” 21
Lymburner: Working Like a Charm 26
In 1964 Who Wants a Lindsay? .. 28
The Queen’s Canada? 33
John Bull, Refugee 35
Luxury Cars: If Money is No Object 42
Review: Bob Raymond’s Britain .. 47
Finance: The Reserve Bank
Ouch! That Squeeze 57
Anglo-Australian Trade Hazards .. 59
Car Insurance Gamble 62
The Bulletin
Est. 1880
Editorial Office: 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666, Ext. 330.
Vol. 86
No. 4411


hostplan:
is hopseSehse :
m m m
No nonsense, Chevron Hilton's new ‘Hostplan’ Is the new, easy
way to plan any function, large or small, be it Wedding Breakfast,
Banquet or Ball. It budgets to an exact figure with no hidden
costs. ‘Hostplan’ includes all your requirements, gives an accurate
appraisal of the needs of your guests and relieves you of the
worry of the many aspects of party organisation. In short it’s the
most economical All-inclusive plan ever offered.
hostplari
is worth looking into
For further information telephone ‘HOSTPLAN’, 35-0433, and ask
for a descriptive brochure.
CHEVRON HILTON
MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TELEPHONE 35 0433. CABLES: ‘CHEVRON’ SYDNEY
Rudy Komon Gallery, 124 Jersey Road, Wool-
lahra. 32 2533. Retrospective showing of
paintings by Desederius Orban, October 7-24.
To mark his 80th birthday.
NEWCASTLE
Von Bertouch Galleries, 50 Laman Street.
2 3584. Young Paris Painters. The exhibi-
tion postponed earlier due to Customs prob-
lems. Until October 29.
MELBOURNE
Gallery A, 275 Toorak Road. 24 4201. Frank
Hodgkinson. Sydney painter now in Spain.
October 15-23.
Australian Galleries, 35 Derby Street, Colling-
wood. 41 4303, 41 4382. Michael Kmit ex-
hibition. Until October 16.
Toorak Gallery, 277 Toorak Road. 24 6592.
David Bell's landscapes. Until October 17.
Leveson Street Gallery, Leveson Street, North
Melbourne. 30 4558. Drawings by Maurice
Cantlon and prints by Lesbia Thorpe. Until
October 16. Then paintings by Mita Van
Putten, October 18-30.
National Gallery of Victoria, Swanston Street.
32 2991. Contemporary American painting.
Until October 25. In the McArthur. The
Nude, 1864-1964. In the Verdon. The latter
to November 8.
Angus Gallery, 290 Latrobe Street. Stoneware
by Peter Laycock until October 16. Then
paintings by Kenneth Hood, October 19-30.
ADELAIDE
Bonython Gallery, 88 Jerningham Street, North
Adelaide. 6 8672. Mixed Exhibition. All by
Australian artists at home end abroad.
October 12-30.
Osborne Gallery, 13 Leigh Street, Adelaide.
51 3227. Ainslie Roberts. Paintings of
Aboriginal mythology. October 20 - Novem-
ber 7.
BRISBANE
Queensland Art Gallery, Gregory Terrace.
5 4974. H. C. Richards Memorial Prize Ex-
hibition. October 15-November 15.
Johnstone Gallery, 6 Cintra Road, Bowen Hills.
5 2217. John Aland upstairs until October 21.
Moreton Galleries, Edward Street. 2 4192.
Watercolors by George Lawrence. Until
October 16.
PERTH
Skinner Galleries, 31 Malcolm Street. 21 9800.
Michael Shannon paintings. October 12-24.
Claude Hotchin Art Gallery, corner of Welling-
ton and Murray Streets. 23 0121. Paintings
by WA Society of Arts. Until October 16.
Then water colors by Alan Stubbs, October
19-30.


track mi, 6 0yeM
11
have
M
been
waiting
i?
for
w
i
V
m
m
mmm
«
■
**3p
iiilSßß
i g
: . -■-•■
OASOO
a**
"
v’w
■*.
I
•***♦**.
x' J I. , •
**/**« > •
3%
iff
mk
K
tW>wrw&*
i *
TOYOTA have built the Lite-Stout for those who want a
really tough, hard-working, truck-size ute that has sedan
car comfort for three passengers—truly rugged but refined.
Utilities made from passenger cars just can’t carry the
truck-type loads like the TOYOTA Lite-Stout—its big load
area carries more than a ton. TOYOTA’S tough 65 B.H.P.
engine is really reliable—with lots of torque low down to
pull the big loads easily.
Under normal working conditions, loaded to capacity,
Lite-Stout gives up to 28 miles per gallon—32 m.p.g. on
light loads. The big brakes with finned drums give more
braking and less fade under heavy loads than any truck
at any price.
Easy handling, panoramic curved windscreen and passen-
ger car ride bring an entirely new feel to truck driving.
At only £1,058, TOYOTA toughness in the chassis, solid
reliability in the motor, economy on the go, Lite-Stout
gives you more for your money than any utility on the road
today.
See your TOYOTA dealer—he has what you want in trucks
TOYOTA Lite-Stout is available with either steel tray
(List Price £955 plus tax), wooden tray (List Price £965
plus tax) or cab and chassis (List Price £BB5 plus tax).
Girder-type chassis makes Lite-Stout especially suitable
for mounting special bodies.
THIESS (SALES) PTY. LTD.,
SOLE AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS
AND IMPORTERS. N.S.W.
DISTRIBUTORS, 185 O’RIORDAN
STREET, MASCOT. 67.3621.
VIC. Distributors: Thiess (Sales) Pty. Ltd., 638 Footscray Rd., Footscray. Tel.: 68.4321.
QLD. Distributors: Thiess (Sales) Pty. Ltd., 743 Fairfield Rd., Yeerongpilly. Tel., 48.2401.
S.A. Distributors: Toyota Land Cruiser and Truck Sales, 138 South Rd., Richmond. Tel.:
57.6651. TAS. Distributors: Co-Operative Motors Pty. Ltd., 131 Collins St., Hobart. Orient
Motors Pty. Ltd., 80 Hobart Rd., Launceston. Tel.: 2.2141. Townsville Distributors: Thiess
(Sales) Pty. Ltd., Ingham Rd., Garbutt. Tel.: 93.270. W.A. Distributors: Premier Motors
(Toyota) Pty. Ltd., 65A Adelaide Terrace, Perth. Tel.: 21.7260. N.T. Distributors: Territory
Car Sales Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 239, Darwin. Tel.: 2656.
TAB.FP.LS


TWO TICKETS TO NEW ZEALAND-ONE FOR HALF THE NORMAL FARE!
It’s the Qantas “Wife Vacation” Plan. Works two ways.
Your wife gets the holiday she’s been longing for. You get
the savings (and the holiday, too). And, if you’re travelling
to New Zealand on business, what could be better? Still
only one full adult return fare while your wife vacations
along with you for half the return air fare. It’s the kind of
surprise she’ll hug you for —say “No wonder you’ve got
tickets on Qantas!” Take other members of the family, too!
Again, just the one full return adult fare—your wife and
everyone under 26 years of age travels for half or less (under
12 only 35% of the adult fare; under 2 only 10% of the
normal adult return fare). You can fly from Melbourne or
Sydney on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, or Thursdays for holidays
up to 17 wonderful days. And
with Qantas Credit Travel you
can plan your whole holiday
for a mere 10% deposit. Come
see us (or your Qantas Travel
Agent) for complete information.
Australia's Round- World Airline
QANTAS
43 years of dependable service
6
m
i.
m
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in association with 8.0.A.C. and TEAL.
i
i<S5 iL
T13.FP.8
s


Vick
Co
pouck;
of
V
m
i e "
o* e
2 035,
(
*—in the Brown Pouch
World famous Amphora —the
extra mild Cavendish pipe
tobacco from Holland, so long
a friendly companion of Austra-
lians everywhere-
!!
2 Otm
<D
—in the Blue Pouch
A new aromatic blend of fine
tobaccos enriched with a special
flavouring which gives new
Amphora Aromatic a delightful
flavour and aroma.
A product of
DOUWE EGBERTS
ROYAL FACTORIES
Utrecht - Holland
<gjSais|g|
AMPHORA
SAIQI
HOBART
Tasmanian State Art Gallery, 5 Argyle Street.
2 6038. Launceston Art Purchase Exhibition.
Until October 17.
BOOKS
fiction .
The Hat on the Bed. John O'Hara. A col-
lection of stories by the master of idiomatic
dialogue. (Reviewed 3/10/64.)
A Singular Man. J. P. Donleavy. An accom-
plished picaresque novel by the author of
"The Ginger Man". (Reviewed 15/8/64.)
The Beach of Falesa. Dylan Thomas. An eerie
story set in the South Seas by the late Welsh
poet.
Where Love Has Gone. Harold Robbins. A lush
new novel by the author of "The Carpet-
baggers".
NON-FICTION
AND SPECIALISED
William Dobell. James Gieeson. An excellent
survey of the great painter's work. (Review-
ed 8/8/64.)
The Rulers. Don Whitington casts a cold eye on
the Menzies Administration's first 15 years.
(Reviewed 19/9/64.)
William Morris Hughes: a political biography.
Volume I: That Fiery Particle. L. F. Fitz-
hardinge. Massive, rather glum history of a
Political fireball. (Reviewed 26/9/64.)
A Moveable Feast. Ernest Hemingway. The
author's early years in Paris. Name-dropping
galore, includes Ezra Pound, James Joyce,
Gertrude Stein and Scott Fitzgerald. (Re-
viewed 8/8/64.)
My Life and Fortunes. J. Paul Getty. The
world's richest man's reminiscences. (Review-
ed 3/10/64.)
Her Privates We. Frederick Manning. A re-
print of the famous classic of World War I.
FILMS
Tom Jones. Albert Finney and Diane Cilento,
among others, romp in the hay. From Field-
ing's novel. (Reviewed 30/6/64.)
Night of the Iguana. An adaptation by John
Huston, who also directed, of Tennessee
Williams' Mexican play With Richard Bur-
ton, Ava Gardner and Deborah Kerr. (Re-
viewed 19/9/64.)
Becket. An elaborate version of Anouilh's
play, with Peter O'Toole and Richard Burton,
directed by Peter Glenville. (Reviewed
26/9/64.)
Lawrence of Arabia. Peter O'Toole as Lawrence
and Jack Hawkins as General Allenby are the
dominant figures in the highest-class sand
opera of them all. (Reviewed 23/11/63.)
The Fall of the Roman Empire. With a re-
sounding thud. Stephen Boyd, Sophia Loren,
Christopher Plummer are involved. (Reviewed
25/7/64.)
RECORDS
CLASSICAI
Beethoven: Piano Sonatas, 1,5, 6 and 7. Wil-
helm Backhaus. Decca LXTA/SXLA 6097.
Veteran Backhaus, still a master, in these
lesser-known sonatas.
Britten: Serenade for Tenor, Horn and Strings;
Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra. Peter
Pears (tenor), Barry Tuckwell (horn), London
Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Benjamin
Britten. Decca LXTA/SXLA 6110. Two of
Britten's most deservedly popular works, ad-
mirably and authentically done.
The Age of Bel Canto. Joan Sutherland, Mari-
lyn Horne, Richard Conrad, with London Sym-
phony Orchestra, conducted by Richard
Bonynge. Decca META/SETA 26819 (two
discs). More than historical interest in a
brilliant demonstration of vocal singing from
Handel to Verdi.
Rossini: La Cenerentola. Simoniato, Bruscantini,
Benelli and others, with orchestra and chorus
of the Maggio Musicale Fiorentino, conducted
by Oliviero de Fabritiis. Decca META-SETA
265-7. A crackling performance of a spark-
ling comic opera.
Mozart: String Quartets Nos. 14 and 15. The
Juilliard String Quartet. Epic ELC/ELCS
9107. Two fine, well contrasted works; cham-
ber playing of the finest temper.
It Was a Lover and His Lass: Music of Shake-
peare's Time. New York Pro Musica, directed
by Noel Greenberg. Festival SFC 931354
(stereo only). A well-chosen miscellany; lively,
expressive and (mainly) authentic perform-
ances.
Mahler: Symphony No. 5; Kindertotenlieder.
Jennie Tourel (mezzo-soprano), New York
Philharmonic Orchestra, conducted by Leon-
ard Bernstein. CBS 2BR/S2BR 220005 (2
discs). A brilliant, sharp-edged performance
of the symphony; a warmer and touching in-
terpretation of the song-cycle. (Reviewed
12/9/64.)
Brahms: Double Concerto in A Minor. Christian
Ferras (violin), Paul Tortelier (cello), Phil-
harmonia Orchestra, conducted by Paul
Kletzki. Beethoven: Violin Sonata No. 1.
Ferras and Pierre Barbizet (piano). HMV
ALP 1999. A full-hearted, technically ex-
cellent playing of the Brahms, not harmed
by touches of Gallic refinement. (Reviewed
29/8/64.)
Mozart: Piano Concertos Nos. 19 and 20.
Rudolf Serkin (piano), Columbia Symphony
Orchestra, conducted by George Szell. CBS
BR/SBR 235062. A superbly stylish collabora-
tion. (Reviewed 29/8/64.)
POPULAR
Julie London. Liberty LRP 3342. Sleekly sung
ballads in a slightly old-fashioned mode. (Re-
viewed 22/8/64.)
Let's Pray Together. Mahalia Jackson. CBS
SBP 233127. America's finest exponent of
Gospel singing is memorably displayed on
this new recording. (Reviewed 5/9/64.)
Just for Openers. Judy Garland. Capitol
W 2062. Miss Garland in a series of numbers
from her ill-fated Television show; vibrant,
buoyant singing, superb in "I Wish You
Love". (Reviewed 3/10/64.)
The Great Hits of Frank Sinatra. Machine-
tooled singing by the most durable of the
1940 s idols. (Reviewed 3/10/64.)


i
.: rlf fjgfBgp.'
INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTIONS
‘ From tiny points to “giant” 36" size, thousands of
Australian Abrasives grinding wheels are today contributing
to the vast revolution of Australian industry.
Wherever there’s hard, tough work or fine, high-precision
Work —wherever quality and speed and economy count, there
you’ll find Australian Abrasives grinding wheels.
There, too, you’ll find AA engineers and AA Distributors’
representatives, ready to contribute their accumulated
knowledge and experience to any grinding problem.
If you have such a problem in your plant, let us share
it with you. Our advice is yours, free for the asking.
■ ...
:
AUSTRALIAN ABRASIVES
AUSTRALIAN ABRASIVES PTY. LTD., 302 PARRAMATTA RD., AUBURN, N.S.W.
MS!


National Notebook
T rouper
IVfE seem to have heard a lot lately
about the need for competent
directors to guide our array of theatrical
talent but not so many actors admit to
needing guidance.
So we were refreshed to hear confir-
mation of the need from a rather older
trouper (in years of experience) and an
emphasis that, without capable direc-
tion, many of our able actors can only
expect to flounder and the health of
theatre to suffer.
Tall, almost embarrassingly handsome,
Owen Weingott has been in theatre from
the age of 15. He remembers seeing
his first play as a five-year-old at Sydney’s
old Criterion.
“I always knew the only life for me
was an actor’s,” he told us. “I started
playing in school productions at Rand-
wick Intermediate High and continued
at Sydney High School. I remember
dramatising ‘A Tale of Two Cities’ —•
‘Bud’ Tingwell played in that with me.”
One of Doris Fitton’s original Inde-
pendent Theatre players, he shared that
stage with such notables as Peter Finch,
Ethel Gabriel and playwright Sumner
Locke Elliott. “The war ended that,” he
said “and, after a stint in the RAAF, I
looked at the bleak prospects awaiting
anyone foolish enough to consider the
theatre as a career and decided to do
law under the Repat. scheme. But my
wife and I discovered I couldn’t afford
law and I abandoned my studies after
12 months and returned to the stage.”
“Those were hectic days. I would give
Angry Rabbit
“PVeryone said to me, ‘You’ll find
everything in Sydney has changed’,”
Russell Braddon said, “but all I find
that has changed is there are notices up
every four feet telling you what you
can’t do —‘Don’t walk’, ‘Don’t park’ and
so on.” Mr Braddon raised a forefinger
and looked much more than an angry
rabbit. “The last constitutional, British
freedom is to jay-walk and now they’re
trying to take that away from us.”
Mr Braddon is home from London for
the first time in seven years, officially
on holiday. But the holiday coincides
with Heinemann’s publication of his
novel, “The Year of the Angry Rabbit”,
so most of the holiday is taken up in
promoting his book. The “Angry
Rabbit” is a political satire, set in Aus-
tralia in the year 2000 when man-eating
rabbits take over the country.
“I could just as easily have written
a 780-page book bellyaching about
everything under the sun,” Mr Braddon
said. “But I gave myself five weeks and
wrote a novel. In a way it was an indul-
gence.”
Mr Braddon set the book in Australia,
but he admits that his Prime Minister,
whom many people have taken to be
Menzies to a tee, is Macmillan. “But
democratic parliamentary government is
the same everywhere,” he said. “Whether
it’s Rhodesia, South Africa, Britain or
Australia. For two years, while the
Common Market negotiations were on,
I worked—unpaid but it was a passion
with me—to try to rally support against
Britain going into the Market. We did
have quite a lot of success and today in
Britain there are hundreds of anti-Market
associations and so on. But, then, when
you tried to harden the resolution of
the so-called Tory rebels! You would
have them one day, then the next they
would waver, then they'd say they had
to vote for the Market —‘Loyalty to the
Party, you know’. ‘But’, you’d say,
‘we shot and hanged people at Nurem-
berg for loyalty to the party against
their conscience’. ‘Yes’, they'd say,
‘but—’.”
Heinemann’s warned us against throw-
ing that tired old dirty word “expatriate”
at Mr Braddon. But with him it seems
awfully simple. He is British because
all Australians are British, so how can
he be an expatriate? But he does admit
that these days Australians are better at
being British than the British.
Mr Braddon said that “The Year of
the Angry Rabbit” was an indulgence
financially as well as professionally. The
biographies he writes earn him the
money to enable him to write novels.
He has just finished a biography of the
newspaper magnate, Lord Thomson,
which, he admits, has left him so
exhausted he is fit only for a bit of
plumbing.
Mr Braddon described publishing in
England as a combination of “ruthless-
ness and muddle”. “Publishers are not
interested in promoting authors and in
most cases they don’t know how to,” he
said. “If they get 1000 orders then they
might reprint 750 copies. Booksellers
are convinced their money is in station-
ery and not books. They wait and see
the reviews in the big four Sundays,
‘Times’, ‘Observer’, ‘Telegraph’, and
‘Express’. If you make it in the four
they’ll order 50. If you make it in three,
30, and so on. If you don't make it at
all, they’ll say ‘We’ll wait and see’.”
On his way home Mr Braddon stopped
at Singapore where the play he wrote
about his experiences as a prisoner-of-
war in Changi, “Naked Island”, was be-
ing performed. It was scarcely a senti-
mental journey but Mr Braddon found
many things as they were before Singa-
pore fell to the Japanese.
“I was invited to stay in the officers’
mess,” he said. “Which was a laugh in
itself. There were the same, overweight,
indolent young officers, who never leave
the island to see anything of the country
and never learn Malay. The reservoir,
which was one of the reasons why the
city fell 22 years ago, is still on the
wrong side of the Causeway. was
a swimming-pool about 500 yards from
the mess and I asked one officer how to
get there. He said, ‘Taxi, of course’. I
said, ‘I want to walk. I can see the
pool, but I can’t quite see how to get
there’. He said, ‘Get a taxi. If you’d
ever been in this climate before, you’d
know you'd get heat exhaustion if you
tried to walk that distance'.”
Australian Bards
Tf the British paperback publishers,
A Penguin, wanted to widen the breach
between the Australian and London
literary worlds by turning down an
anthology of Australian new writing,
poet Geoffrey Dutton certainly played
his part by releasing to contributors cor-
respondence between Penguin and him-
self.
Penguin commissioned Dutton to com-
pile the anthology, then turned it down,
finding Patrick White, Randolph Stow
and James Murray the only ones out of
30 Australian writers “with real stan-
dards”. Dutton also made available to
contributors the report by Francis Hope,
assistant editor of “New Statesman”, on
the anthology. Reports on manuscripts
are often where critics, who must temper
their virulence in print to appease pub-
lishing advertisers, vent their spleen
against authors. This Hope has done.
However, reports to publishers on
manuscripts are invariably regarded as
confidential documents and Dutton must
certainly have reached the end of his
tether with Penguin.
If the tone of the correspondence
were not enough to inflame Australian
writers, Penguin’s suggestion that the
anthology might be submitted to Pen-
guin Australia should really set the bush
ablaze.


This coupon will bring all the technical and fixing data
about PROFILIT, the revolutionary new constructional
glass unit for single or double glazing. Section 10-jV'
(262 mm) wide; lengths up to 20 feet (6 m.); depth 1f"
(41 mm) overall; light transmissionBs%; Cast or Wireline..
PROFILIT spans vertically, giving vistas of unlimited
width and unbroken line without additional vertical
supports of any kind.
When you plan, build in light with strength and cut the
cost of glazing.
LIGHT WITH STRENGTH
PROFILIT can be added at any stage in a building
programme all-dry quick fixing methods reduce
erection time and do not interfere with other work.
PROFILIT saves space; tackles curves and corners;
builds external walls, roofs, ceilings, partitions, porches,
canopies, car ports... and makes a clean sweep of every
job, large or small.
Name -
Address
Please put me on your mailing list for Profilit
Technical Literature. Sendcoupontothisaddress.
Mr. C. Rogers,
Representing Pilkington Brothers Limited,
4 Bridge Street, (P.O. Box 561),
Sydney, N.S.W»
BUILD N
REGD.
V,
PKSB/64


fencing lessons before work, often work
throughout the day, skip tea and rush
off to the theatre for an evening per-
formance. My wife wasn’t a bit happy.
There was no home life and she couldn’t
understand anyone working so hard for
so little. Today I’m one of the most
called-on actors and she understands
why. But she was marvellously patient
I could never have made it without
her. I’m sure an actor needs an under-
standing wife above all else,”
Returning to his main theme, Wein-
gott spoke earnestly. “But we must have
directors. An actor develops certain man-
nerisms. He’s usually not conscious of
them and it takes firm direction to over-
come them. I know, I've pulled up
actors on occasions and then gone on
myself only dimly aware that I too was
using habitual mannerisms. A good
director would have set me right imme-
diately.
“Where will we find competent direc-
tors? Well, we’ll probably have to import
them. Can we afford it? Listen, if we can
afford to bring out stars we can afford
to bring out the people who can make
stars.”
Neighbors
D eading about General de Gaulle’s
“ stormy progress through South
America made us reflect once more how
little this continent comes into our calcu-
r lations, unless, perhaps, we are making
some wild claims for the largest, tallest
or biggest something in the Southern
Hemisphere.
This abiding ignorance is sometimes
balanced by the detailed knowledge
which a few Australians have gained.
And we were talking to one of these
recently. This was Mr Donald McKinnon,
who was our Ambassador to Brazil from
1958 to 1960. Mr McKinnon belongs
to the days before “career” diplomats
got most of the appointments, to the
days when Australia’s diplomats were
generally chosen on the basis of their
years in the area to which they were
assigned, rather than their years in the
Department of External Affairs. Mr
McKinnon, who lived in the Argentine
for 17 years before being posted to Rio
de Janeiro, is now absorbed with Liberal
Party rural affairs in Victoria.
Mr McKinnon, who first saw Brasilia
when there was one wooden building on
the site, is a great believer in the prac-
tical benefits of what sounds merely
grandiose. “The new capital will open
tip a lot of country,” he said. “I believe
that within 10 years there will be a
couple of thousand new farms along the
600 miles of road leading into the capital.
Brazil has some of the same develop-
ment problems as Australia. You cannot
creep forward. You have to go in great
leaps.”
Mr McKinnon, who headed Aus-
tralia’s trade mission to South America
in 1962, believes the possibilities for
increased trade are good, depending on
regular shipping links. More import-
antly, he believes, Australia could play
quite an important part in helping the
under - developed countries of South
America to progress. “The real oppor-
tunity of the smaller country is to see its
opportunities,” he said. “And a country
like Australia, which is still growing, can
often see where the opportunities lie
much more readily than a rich and
powerful country can. And I always felt
that Australians were particularly well
regarded in South America. It might
have something to do with our sense
of humor.”
Modus Operandi
Cenior-inspector J. Sadeer Zain, a
39-year-old Malay, talked to us a
few days ago about police work in Singa-
pore, which, he felt, differed somewhat
from police work here. Here on three
weeks’ leave from the Royal Malaysian
Police (Singapore branch), Inspector Zain
is one of Singapore's Public Prosecutors.
He said Singapore’s prostitutes each pay
an entrance fee of 10 Malaysian dollars
and 80 cents (about 305.) to join illegal
protection societies.
“Your girls at the Cross don’t know
how lucky they are. That $lO.BO is
really just to cover the secret society
gangsters’ paperwork. After that the
girls all pay various amounts each month
to ensure they can stay in business un-
molested.” The amounts were based on
the gangsters’ estimates of the girls’
earning-power.”
Mr Zain said his policemen have an
easy way of recognising secret society
gangsters. “There are several gangs.
There's the 08 Gang, the 18 Gang, the
24 Gang, the 36 Gang and the 108
Gang. They love calling themselves by
numbers. We can smell a member of
one of them when we meet him. We
then arrest him for a minimum of 16
days while we build up a case against
him. They never admit they are gangsters
or members of any secret societies, of
course. Then we charge them under the
Temporary Provisional Ordinances and
gaol them for a year without trial.”
Were they always guilty?” “Always,”
said Mr Zain. He then described an
alternative punishment to a year's gaol in
Singapore, without trial.
“We beat them with canes. If this
were done in Australia you would not
have half so much trouble with your
young hoodlums. It has a marvellous
effect. The man is stripped, tied face
down over a bench and beaten on his
bare buttocks. Six strokes are usually
enough. Of course there is an art to
applying the cane so it hurts most. You
have to hit the same place each time.
This is not too difficult as the first
whack usually splits the skin in a long
weal. After the second whack the man
usually loses control of his bladder.
After the third whack he often faints.
Then the medical officer in attendance
examines him and revives him sufficiently
to continue with the beating. Prosti-
tutes who give too much trouble can be
similarly dealt with—if not by the police,
then by their ‘protectors’.”
We felt that if the girls at the Cross
don't know how lucky they are, someone
should tell them.
THE ARCTIC SHOT...
80 Years Ago: October 18, 1884
rpHE newspaper world enjoys a
delirious ecstasy over the fate
of the Greeley Arctic victims. [The
r e r,J UrV T S f of ,. Lieut ;
Greeley s party of 24 exp orers had
just been rescued.] If the survivors of
the Greeley party maintained their
own lives by eating their dead com-
rades, what of it? These cold remains
could not have been put to better use.
If Dr Pavy and Henry were shot
under the rigid law necessary to pre-
serve discipline, and in justice to the
others in such extreme danger, what
of it? It was right. They had better
have stayed at home. These Arctic
explorations are so utterly foolish,
combining such infinitesimal benefit
with such awful peril, that sympathy
is unnecessary with the armchair
scientists who start them and the fana-
tics who go in them. Half the gov-
ernments of the world have expended
_, r , , F 2 ,
menS and large s f u ™ ,0 fi" d
passages that will be perfectly useless
'when found, or to establish astro-
nomical or other stations that no one
can ever live at when established. Let
the desolation alone. Now that the
people engaging in Arctic exploration
are beginning to eat one another,
perhaps it will get unfashionable. Yet,
so far as we can see, the eating of
one another was the most sensible
thing done. That saved life: everything
else done in connection with the ex-
pedition was simply a sacrifice of it.


Tanner
On the sheep's back.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Un-British Elections
This week’s election in the United
Kingdom seems, in any traditional
sense of the word British, to be a most
un-British affair. It is being fought on
strictly empirical issues, in an ad-
nirably balanced, quiet and civilised
vay, with an emphasis on prosperity
ind peace, but without vision and
without any particular interest in the
aid-style British mission in the world,
let alone in the moral standards
associated with past British greatness.
It is what foreigners like to call a very
‘English” election —an election of
Little Englanders. Australians have
io particular stake in it.
1 This is a rational, if to many people
lisheartening, development. The
British people are simply adapting
to their new position ini the
,»rld, without many illusions abou
the Commonwealth, even the White
Commonwealth, which South Africa
has left and in which Canada may
drop its British flag and New Zealand
nay drop the word “British” from its
pnssport.
It may seem ironical, however, at
the very period when Britain is pre-
Renting such a parochial image to the
ivorld, it should also be making its
liggest propaganda drive in Australia
vith the Sydney Exhibition as the
lackdrop to the trade talks and the
Grenadier Guards playing “Land of
Hope and Glory” to help Bloggs of
Birmingham sell us his nuts and bolts.
But in fact this trade drive is part of
the same process as the passing of
British imperial power. Far from try-
ing to exploit old imperial bonds, the
essential point of this Exhibition is
that Britain is now for the first time
deliberately treating Australia as a
foreign country whose markets have
to be wooed and won on the in-
dustrial merits of the goods for sale
with the minimum of sentiment. For
the British Overseas Fair, it is Sydney
this week, Barcelona last week and
Tokyo next, with few special distinc-
tions. (See story page 21.)
This emphatically marks the end of
an era But it behoves Austral i a „s to
be as H j . imp , icadons
~ n y .
as * ? n ish. .We have already
recognised them m foreign policy and
are now adapting trade policy. Yet
the real test is defence and in this
matter Australians, perhaps en-
couraged by Britain’s temporary new
commitments in Malaysia, still tend
to think of the British Commonwealth
as an adequate defence system and
have not assimilated the realistic lesson
behind the current British drive in
Australia.
Once a Communist ...
"IJhe current bitter controversy in
Melbourne among a number of
groups commonly thought of as anti-
communist can do nothing but good,
began in The Bulletin when Mr
Jsi Leibler, a prominent Jewish
Spokesman and critic of Communists,
criticised the views of three men also
well known for their hostility to Com-
munists—Mr Eric Butler, Mr Norman
Banks and Mr D. J. Killen, MP
whom he regarded as forming an
“‘anti-Semitic’ Unity Ticket”. The
facts of this particular charge are still
J nder dispute. Mr Killen has most
persuasively denied any sympathy with
mcism (The Bulletin, October 10);
y r Banks has announced his admira-
J on for the Jewish people; and Mr
Sutler has challenged Mr Leibler to
iroduce evidence of his anti-Semitism.
But whatever may be the facts of
his particular issue, Mr Banks, in the
course of a defence of Dr Verwoerd’s
apartheid policies, put one major issue
in a nutshell when he declared: “Once
a Communist, always a Communist”.
A number of spokesmen conserva-
tive, Catholic, Jewish, DLP, ALP
immediately denounced this dictum,
and there are two main reasons why
they are absolutely right to do so.
The first and less important is that,
as a matter of plain fact, some of the
most telling critics of Communism
have been and are ex-Communists.
Their name is legion, and although
one must reject the sentimental view
of some of them that only they realise
the full vileness of Communism, never-
theless to dismiss their work is to
dismiss some of the best men and
women in the struggles against Com-
munism in Australia and abroad. This
is so obvious a point that Mr Banks
would seem clearly not to have begun
to understand the movement he likes
to attack.
The second point is more radical.
Mr Banks’ dictum denies the right of
men to make mistakes and change
their minds; it denies the freedom of
the mind. However wrong we may
regard support of Communism, there
is no point in denying its historic
appeal to some of the most idealistic
people.
Mr Banks’ dictum cuts across this
basic principle and would put him out-
side the ranks of liberals and con-
servatives who oppose Communism
because it is the most immediate
threat to our free way of life the
same reason they oppose racism, anti-
Semitism, or Dr Verwoerd. Anti-
Communism is no band-waggon and it
would be a disaster if the sort of view
Mr Banks has espoused were accepted
as a typical doctrine of the Right-
wing, when it is no such thing.
A Rude Shock
woolgrowers have the
basic right to settle their own pri-
vate affairs, the public has an equally
basic right to be heard on the pro-
posed scheme for a reserve wool
price despite Sir William Gunn’s
talk about confidential information
since the scheme directly affects the
public pocket in at least two ways.
Firstly, the public would have, under
the proposal, to pay out £6om. (three-
quarters of the proposed £Bom.) when
there is no guarantee that either the
country or the woolgrowers will be
better off under it.
Secondly, the scheme would elimi-
nate private selling even by those who
want to sell by private treaty, since
it would allow the reserve price
authority to make advances to indivi-
dual growers while their wool waits
for auction thus tying up public
money against all parties’ wishes.
In these circumstances the Federal
Cabinet was justified in rejecting the
scheme until it gets more information.
No industry, however important, has
the right to expect taxpayers to com-
mit themselves to handing over at
least £6om. without being told pre-
cisely why, particularly when most of
the industry’s 15,000 large growers
oppose the scheme anyhow. One
hopes that Sir William Gunn has been
given a rude shock.


THIS AUSTRALIA
COMMUNISTS
The “Peace” Ramp
Already a major victory
FROM FRED WELLS IN SYDNEY
N. KHRUSHCHEV
Tn outline the forthcoming Sydney
“Peace” Congress will resemble the
Melbourne one of 1959. It will com-
mence on Sunday, October 25, with a
march through the city, terminating in
a rally at the Sydney Stadium. From
then until the evening of Friday, Octo-
ber 30, there will be a round of confer-
ences, seminars, public meetings, films,
folk singing, exhibitions and receptions.
Conferences will be held in various
groupings—Citizens, Trade Unions,
Educational, Artists and Writers, Youth,
Churchmen, Business and Professional,
Scientists. According to the Congress
organisers the main topics for discussion
will be:
• French Pacific Tests and the Partial
Test Ban Treaty;
• Nuclear Free Zone;
• Economic and Social Consequences
of Disarmament;
• International Co-operation Year
and the UN;
• The Threat of Nuclear and Biologi-
cal War;
• Australia’s Relations with Asia;
• Peace Research.
Among the most striking problems for
peace are those which do not officially
LADY STREET
T. HILL
appear on the agenda, such as Indonesia’s
attitude towards Malaysia, and the Ber-
lin Wall.
Taking a line from the 1959 Congress
the most important conferences will
probably be the Citizens’, Educational,
Youth and the Trade Union. The Citi-
zens’ Conference will probably deal with
disarmament and with the unlisted topic
of the Aborigines. This group will also
suggest the form in which the Peace
Movement in Australia is likely to con-
tinue. There will certainly be a session
on Vietnam —and it is here that the
Communist forces behind the Australian
Peace Movement appear to be becom-
ing a little more sophisticated. At the
1959 Congress a Madame Blume, Vice-
President of the Communist World Peace
Council, was put up as a last-minute
speaker on Vietnam, and her manner
aroused great hostility. But this time
there is already on the scene a young
Australian trade union official who re-
cently returned from North Vietnam.
He has been featured in “Tribune” as
accompanying Communist Party leaders
in a protest to the US Consul.
The Aboriginal question will also be
given top priority at the Educational
and Trade Union Conferences. (Work
among the Aborigines is a top Commu-
nist Party priority.) It will be interest-
ing to see whether the Aborigine who
attended the Moscow World Youth
Forum last month will be back in time
for the Congress. Papua-New Guinea
is another item scheduled to appear.
Despite all this, however, it would be
a mistake to visualise this Congress as
an exact replica of the last. The people
behind the Congress are well aware
that the public regards past Peace Con-
gresses and the World Peace Council as
Communist - controlled and they are
anxious to establish a new image. New
tactics are needed. Motions mildly
criticising the Soviet Union, which would
have been bitterly contested at previous
congresses, are now likely to be allowed
to pass. In fact it would not be surpris-
ing if there were a couple of “Dorothy
Dixers” gently chiding Russia. An
attitude of “as - long - as - we - get -
the - big - fish - why - worry - about -
the - little - ones?” is likely to prevail.
If all goes well, a “new” peace movement
will emerge with a new following and
a new name “The Peace Research
Bureau”.
In spite of all this “newness”, there
is little doubt that the guiding hand and
policy will be as it has been since 1949.
The Communist Party has put all its
resources behind this Congress and is
the only political party
supporting it.
This is of course officially denied 1
Mr W. J. Brown, Secretary of the Syd
ney District Committee of the Corn s
munist Party, wrote in the Sydney Presl
last month: “1 point out that official
sponsor lists for the . . . Congress
some 25 Communists out of 60(i
sponsors—about 4 per cent.” Mr Browf'
then asked how could such a smaf
group manipulate the Congress. Mo
Brown knows that Communists, numbed
ing less than 2 per cent of the total
membership, control some of our lead!
ing trade unions, and in any case Com-:
munists in the sponsor lists number, oti
a conservative estimate, more like 8 pet
cent than 4 per cent. >
HPhe Chairman of the Congress, Dt<
A. G. H. Lawes, has said that nei
ther the 1959 Peace Congress nor tW
Communist World Peace Council had $
has anything to do with the present Cod
gress. But “Peace Action”, the journal
of the NSW Peace Committee, under i
heading “Who Initiated the Congresv
Proposal?”, says this: “In 1959 there wa>
held in Melbourne the Australian anc
New Zealand Congress for
Co-operation and Disarmament. Fold
lowing this Congress, State Continuial
Committees were formed to carry on it
work. In February, 1964, represents
tives of these Committees decided til
convene a panel of citizens to form
provisional sponsoring committee to bfts
gin preliminary planning for a Nationa'n
Congress in October, 1964.” Thill
statement, allied to the fact that so manjs
of those prominent in the 1959 Coin
gress were members of the Continuing
Committees and are equally prominen c
in the affairs of this, leaves room %
no other conclusion than that this Coi n
gress is a direct descendant of 1959. n
As to the World Peace Counc,]
having nothing to do with the Congresj
From November 28-December 2, 196 1(
a meeting of the World Peace Counc[ r
was held in Warsaw, Poland. The A]K
tralian representatives were the Rev. f n j


BEWARE OF IMITATIONS
-INSTAL GENUINE
c m
‘FLOATiNG ACTION’ garage door fittings
From Hardware stores everywhere t.«
|rtley (a Congress sponsor, WPC
imber), Lady Jessie Street (a Congress
Insor, WPC member), Mr G. Ander-
-5 (Joint Secretary of the Congress,
nt Secretary of NSW Peace Commit-
y Mrs Freda Brown (CPA Central
■mmittee member, National Secretary
the Union of Australian Women),
e Secretary of the Victorian State
imning Committee for the Congress is
k Rev. A. M. Dickie (WPC member).
i e other three Australian WPC mem-
h, the Rev. A. D. Brand, Mrs E. Hut-
Lsson and Mr W. Morrow (Lenin
S ice Prize winner) are all sponsors
and active in the Congress.
is
lyHis time, however, there should be an
added bonus for the pro-Moscow
;( jimmunist Party. Wherever possible a
darp distinction will be drawn between
T ; Soviet Union’s peace-loving leaders
!S J the truculent, warlike Chinese. This
a l help prepare the climate in Austra-
>Vfor the planned excommunication of
ymmunist China from the Soviet bloc,
vfeady there have been hints of this,
a); Heffernan, of the ALP, implied that
Relegation of eleven from the Austra-
lia Peace Liaison Committee (which
afluded the Rev. Victor James, an
founder of the Australian
n-ace Council) was under the sway of
3i? Chinese Communist Party and, by
lefemce, of Mr Ted Hill's breakaway
samunist Party. For their money,
; Chinese say that the WPC is domi-
Dted by “a certain power”. To add to
6 confusion, a member of James’
ftce Liaison Committee has put out a
c&et attacking takeover tactics of the
ii/iet delegation and the WPC.
iAs for the rank and file members of
i ALP and others like them who are
sporting the Congress, their support
be partly understood in view of
05 deluge of propaganda officially
by over 50 churchmen, in-
king a number of bishops, and 31
n >P politicians, some of them top-rank-
leaders of the party. Despite the
b ALP sponsors, the ALP’s official
bkesman has ambiguously passed the
Nowhere is this more obvious
% in Mr Calwell’s attack on “emo-
W>al opposition” to the Congress and
statement that the ALP will only
Associate itself from the Congress if it
)B Nsed for “unproper ends”.
the ALP could, from the years
■ c ore the war up to 1956, see the true
ttacter of this sort of “peace” move-
)lnt and denounce it as Communist-
fiinated, and then—while it has prac-
“cilly the same form, the same leaders
g! same personnel advocating the
J e policies— turn around and give it a
* n bill of health, can be counted as
y the major victories of any Corn-
et front in this country.
CIVIL AVIATION
The End of States’ Rights
Will McEwen support the ALP?
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
Tn the Commonwealth decision to
assume complete control over avia-
tion in Australia, the States sense yet
another encroachment upon their dimi-
nishing area of responsibility. Sections
of the Country Party see it as an urban
(Ansett Airlines) against rural (East-West
Airlines) struggle. Groups in the ALP
see it as a struggle for a little organisa-
tion (East-West Airlines) to survive when
confronted with a giant transport em-
pire (Ansett).
As yet the issue has not strained re-
lationships between the joint partners in
the Menzies Coalition Government, the
Liberals and the Country Party, as much
as might be expected in view of the ten-
R. ANSETT
D. SHAND
C. ADERMANN
sions at non-Federal levels. lan Sinclair,
Country Party MHR for New England,
was a bit difficult about what was hap-
pening, and particularly about the pros-
pects of East-West Airlines losing the
advantage which the Renshaw Labor
Government in NSW proposed conferring
in the shape of the lucrative and highly
desirable Sydney-Dubbo line run pre-
viously by Airlines of NSW. But other-
wise the Country Party federally seems
to have “gone along” with at least that
portion of the proposal that was designed
to give the Commonwealth final author-
ity over all aviation in Australia.
In my view the attitudes taken by
Country Party Leader, John McEwen,
and his deputy, Charley Adermann, are
probably responsible for this state of
affairs. McEwen is a very earthy
character, who reduces an issue to its
absolute basics. His view appears to
have been that the case for the Com-
monwealth having complete control over
aviation was unanswerable. Administra-
tion of flying must in a single country
be under a single control. With air
traffic increasing, diversity in control
would be ludicrous. Moreover, if aerial
services were to be extended to country
districts on a larger, more regular and
consistent system, it was the Common-
wealth that would overwhelmingly
have to foot the bill. It would be an
unworkable system under which he who
paid the piper could not call the tune
and could be told to dive into Lake
Burley Griffin by such financially dis-
interested bystanders as the States.
Adermann, a slow-speaking countryman
who also has much of this capacity to
reduce issues to basics, took a broadly
similar view.
But while the approach of McEwen
and Adermann has kept strain out of
Federal Liberal-Country Party relation-
ships so far on this issue, this might not
continue indefinitely. McEwen obvi-
ously appreciates that Renshaw and the
NSW Labor Government can make a
lot of political mileage out of the
struggle. Renshaw can depict himself
as the protector of the small man (East-
West Airlines) against the big man
(Ansett). He is already making much
out of the fact that the Commonwealth
intervenes to take supreme civil aviation
control at a period when he was ensuring
the future of a country-based show like
East-West Airlines against absorption
by the capital-city-based Ansett organisa-


w
R
«; CL**IT
r»» •* A« c 199 ft
fa
THE
COONAWARRA ESTATE
The vineyard and the old stone
cellars are in the care of dedicated
men who have retained many of
the traditional hand-methods in
carefully producing Australia’s
finest table wines.
Each bottle is marked with its
vintage year and carries a back
label clearly showing where the
Estate is located.
COONAWARRA ESTATE* CLARET is
made from the original Shiraz
(Hermitage) vineyard.
COONAWARRA ESTATE CABERNET
is vintaged from 70 acres of the
rare Cabernet Sauvignon.
COONAWARRA ESTATE RIESLING
comes from a new vineyard of
Rhine Riesling.
*“ Estate" (as the word “ Chateau ” in France) Is used to
distinguish the wine as being the genuine product of the
winegrowers' own vineyard.
Solo and Exclusive Purveyors: S. WYNN Sc. CO.PTY.LTD.
tion, which has its headquarters in Mel-
bourne. He can put himself forward
as the apostle of decentralisation against
the centralising force of the Common-
wealth Government.
McEwen does not like the Labor Party
making political mileage at the expense
of the non-Labor forces. He likes it
even less if the political mileage is being
made at the expense of the Country
Party. He—and Adermann —can still
“bail up” at any stage.
There is a considerable difference be-
tween acceptance of the principle that
the Commonwealth should have control
over civil aviation throughout Australia
and accepting everything that is done
under that control. Both McEwen and
Adermann object if what is done by the
Commonwealth under that control does
not suit the interests of East-West Air-
lines —which is Country Party-backed in
NSW—sufficiently to satisfy Country
Party interests.
Aside from the political damage that
might result if an open dispute between
the Liberals and Country Party emerged
federally on this issue, the Prime Minis-
ter, Sir Robert Menzies, is in the posi-
tion that the ALP federally will probably
ultimately take precisely the attitude that
McEwen and Adermann have taken.
Even though the NSW Labor Govern-
ment is breathing fire and brimstone
about this Commonwealth threat to State
Rights, the ALP federally will un-
doubtedly support the principle that the
Commonwealth should have supreme
civil aviation authority, while reserving
the right to criticise mercilessly anything
done under that control.
Two things are certain. Renshaw,
with a State election approaching, will
be out to make as much political capital
out of the issue as he can. McEwen
and Adermann will be watching closely
how the Commonwealth proposes to
exercise the control.
CRIME
The Rape Cult
The herd instinct
FROM HUGH CURNOW IN SYDNEY
papers call it multiple rape. The
A “boys” call it a gang-bang. In New
South Wales, accurate figures of rapes
performed on girls by more than one
attacker have not yet been issued for
1964. There have, however, been at least
seven rape gangs before the courts in
Sydney since the year began. In three
of those cases the numbers of rapists
involved reached double figures. One con-
cerned an attack by 14 youths on two
teenage girls. Only two of the gang
actually raped the girls. The others stood
in close to watch. In one of the two
other cases (each involving 10 youthful
rapists) all of the gang took a more
active physical part. Their single victim
was a 17-year-old Sydney virgin on her
way to a dance in a Sydney western sub-
urb. She was separated from her younger
sister, raped and otherwise debased.
Three of the gang were sentenced to
gaol for life. The remaining seven got
sentences of five to 15 years’ imprison-
ment.
In Queensland, police are frankly
worried about the new wave of crimes
of sex and violence. The rape cult has
caught on there in the past 12 months.
Of 50 rapes, eight were multiple. In the
same period there have been 21 murders,
60 assaults and an increase “by thou-
sands” of the number of breaking and
entering crimes. In all but murder, teen-
agers reign supreme as Number One
offenders. Detectives say sex offences
were often “incredible"’. For each of
nearly 100 carnal knowledge cases, they
say probably 10 were unreported
parents. The long-range effects on
young girl of having to tell and re-
the story of what happened to her, f
to detectives, then to lawyers, then
magistrate, then a judge and jury a
then, possibly, a court of appeal
often over a period of several months
is something many parents prefer
avoid on her behalf.
Until a few years ago, rape by yonf
in company was nearly unknown
Queensland or elsewhere in Austral
Now there is usually a case a wi
somewhere in this country, someth
four in a single weekend. Detectives t;
two immediate lines of inquiry wi
cases are reported. One group of (f
men, treating the complaint as genuii
set out to find the youths involved,
the same time, another batch investi®
the girl. Is she of good character? 1
she a police record? Is she lying to esc:
punishment from her parents? Is she i
venting a “gang-bang” story because
fear of pregnancy? (In Queensland ait
there have been 10 false complar
made by girls about “wolf-pack rapis
in the past year. Other States have sir
lar figures).
Mental aberration is now held to:
the most common cause of murder;
many Australian capitals. Ten years a:
broken love affairs and domestic jealoi
accounted for the motives in the v
majority of slayings. Now more than :
per cent of murders reported in Queei
land are still of domestic origin i
many of them are caused by sudd
mental breakdowns. Aggressive hetf
sexuality is not usually the impe
behind multiple rape. Voyeurism, hor»
sexual exhibitionism and fear of r
potence are more often the cam
According to one Sydney psychiatr
“Watching another male having *
excites these youths. They join in m v
from herd instinct than sex instinct.”
CURRENCY
Decimal Doubt
Can the Government
heat the clock?
FROM DAVID MCDOUGALL IN
MELBOURNE
Commonwealth Government \
-*■ only a slight hope of introduce
the nation's decimal currency on f
date it has stipulated—February, 19'
When Sir Edgar Coles, the top ri
in the widespread G. J. Coles chi
store organisation, was in Canbf
recently he told reporters: “I th 1
the Government may have to c (


THE ADVANTAGES OF ALUMINIUM No. 4
ALUMINIUM BRINGS POWER
mwm®
r ' iJ
smmrnmmmmm
l
9
■
Wmi
Ml
mi
M
m
w.
ipi
MI
PlrM-
lit:
*? *
a
m
The electricity that makes life easier comes to you through aluminium cable
Pound for pound, aluminium is the best
electrical conductor. Its low cost also means
economy. Light, strong and enduring, high-
voltage aluminium cable climbs mountains,
crosses plains and deserts bringing the
benefits of electricity to millions.
Fine aluminium wire is important to rocket and
missile guidance systems, and spun to hair-
like thinness, activates tiny electronic watches.
Aluminium rod brings angry lightning safely
to earth and controls the deliberation of
computors. Giant aluminium ‘bus bars’ carry
great quantities of power into such processes
as electro-plating and electrolytic production
of metals. Antennae of aluminium bring infor-
mation and entertainment to the TV audiences
of the world.
Aluminium conducts heat. It also reflects heat
and light. It is non-magnetic, non-toxic, and
impact absorbing. It is less costly than other
non-ferrous metals, and is available in every
form known to the metal working industry.
Aluminium has a wider range of finishes than
any other metal, providing virtually any color
ALUMINIUM IS PROGRESS ALUMINIUM IS
ALCOA OF AUSTRALIA PROPRIETARY LIMITED
Headquarters and Sales Office: 155 Queen St, Melbourne. 67 6585.
or texture. Aluminium is truly the metal of the
Twentieth Century.
Alcoa of Australia (with its 49% Australian
shareholding) mines, manufactures and markets
aluminium in an enterprise that spans our
nation.
ALCOA
AUSTRALIA


X
' I'fl mut you
at the cufipoit
• ANY AIRPORT
• ANY TIME
• WITH A NEW FORD FALCON
when you
Ftf Ansett-ANA
TZ2S
m
DRIVE AVIS Fa/con
RENTA CAR
AVIS and ANSETT-ANA combine to give you the most comfort-
able, fast, convenient and economical travel for both business
or pleasure!
TRAVEL RELAXED! Jet to your destination at 7 miles a minute
in luxurious comfort with Ansett-ANA! At any airport through-
out Australia a sparkling new Avis Falcon can be waiting for
you to drive as your own! It’s time-saving! It’s money-saving!
It’s the modern way to travel!
Book your Avis Rent-a-Car when you book your Ansett-ANA
flight. It’s as simple as that!
678/83/64
ANSETT-ANA
tutAfaZBIIZEEi
sider extending the time unless a lot
more progress is made very quickly on
the problems of conversion costs and
”
The general secretary of the Aus-
tralian Council of Retailers, Mr W. D. N.
Johnson, backed Sir Edgar Coles’ views.
He said the Decimal Currency Board’s
failure to announce the details of cash
register conversion and compensation
schemes, and its delayed decisions on
the zoning system (under which machines
will be converted in one area at a time)
had thrown a temporary spanner in the
works. “We must know how much
compensation is to be paid and in what
areas the zoning system will take effect
first, he added. On top of all this, the
Perth Chamber of Commerce has sug-
gested that the date should be delayed
to coincide with the end of the 1965-66
financial year.
However, when the Treasurer, Mr
Holt, tabled the Board’s first annual
report in the House of Representatives
a fortnight ago, the Retail Trade’s
opinions were challenged. It said
that there was every indication that
the changeover would be achieved o t
the due date. In fact, figures it
eluded in the report imply thy
retailers would have only themselve
to blame if the changeover is delayer
Despite widespread publicity there wer
only 251,000 applications made by Jun
last for the registration of addin
machines, accounting machines and casl*
registers seeking compensation. Tk
Board has estimated that there atf
270,000 machines eligible under thi
scheme.
Mr R. J. Gray, the Decimal Inform;
tion Officer for Victoria, said the Boat
could not give compensation details yf
because the machine companies had stii
not stated what the costs would be.
With the machine companies, some re
tailers, and probably the Decimal Cui
rency Board (and the current delay it
decimal coin production) all gumming u
the works, it seems we may be stuck wit>
the good old £ s. d. longer than w
thought.
BUSINESS
Snedden’s Bill
Delay was time well spent
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
After prolonged Cabinet discussion.
it seems to have been decided no
only to delay the presentation of a Re
strictive Trade Practices Bill but, as thr
next step, merely to table a documeiv
setting out a revised scheme far less con
prehensive than the original; whid
would then be open for general discus-
sion, in the same way as the old Barwic
proposals.
If this proves to be the new procedure
the two years of public debate and crit,
cism of the Barwick proposals will hay
been time well spent. For it will ope?
the way not only to dispense with th
dichotomy of List A (bilateral practices
and List B (proscribed practices) bi
also to change from the proposed syster
of registration of practices to the mof
sensible one adopted in New Zealac'
(which tried a registration scheme, the!-
dropped it), and Canada where invests
gation of a restrictive trade practice ca
only follow from a public complaint.
This would also open the way for rf*
consideration of the future role th»
Australian Industries Preservation Af
should play in stopping restrictive trad,
practices against the public interest. Tl
Attorney-General has shown a willing
ness to bring this act into play over tl
last year or so but no case has yet bee
nailed under it and the impression
left that Mr Snedden is unwilling 1
press one home lest the wider design
the new restrictive trade practices pr £
posals is prejudiced.


.
MM
A real live ANGEL
in
In a wonderful world of tending and caring, our lovely
nurses are indeed real live angels. And every nurse you'll
ever see always looks fresh, crisp, and neat as a pin thanks
to Cesarine. Used almost exclusively by every leading Hospital
in Australia, Cesarine is proud of its wonderful record of
service. Hospital uniforms take really hard wear they’re
laundered frequently severely. Thanks to Cesarine, they
always look smart, stylish, fresh and crisp. Make Cesarine your
first choice for uniforms.
CAESAR FABRICS LTD.—Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Launceston
. SERVING AUSTRALIA UNIFORMLY
CPB3I
HEALTH
Bolte’s Water
No fluoridation?
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
Tf Victoria’s anti-fluoridationists
*■ could read between the lines, they
had reason to feel pleased at Mr Bolte’s
announcement that the State Govern-
ment would bring down legislation in
the current session of Parliament to en-
able local authorities to fluoridate water
supplies. The legislation will require
that the authorities hold a poll of rate-
payers, in which at least 70 per cent vote
in favor, before introducing fluoride.
This means that, for the foreseeable
future, no water authority could intro-
duce fluoride. The past history of pub-
lic referenda is not on the side of
fluoridationists or for that matter any
other supporters of change, and by pro-
ducing the arbitrary figure of 70 per cent
seemingly out of nowhere, Mr Bolte has
made doubly certain. In this he now
has the support of “The Age”, which
has come out in strong opposition to
fluoridation.
CENSORSHIP
The Banners
After " Playboy ”
FROM A BRISBANE CORRESPONDENT
JpHE Queensland Literature Board of
A Review has one thing to its credit:
it publishes an Annual Report in which
it puts on record its assessment of the
degree of the country’s moral turpitude
and what it has been doing to raise our
SIR A. MANSFIELD and V. GAIR
standards by banning this or that roman-
tic comic. This is more than most censor-
ship bodies do, which usually prefer to
operate in private and not subject their
ideas to public scrutiny.
In its latest report the Board sum-
marises the results of its “Playboy” case.
In June, 1963, the Board prohibited the
distribution of the magazine in Queens-
land and HMH Publishing Co., Inc. of
USA appealed against this order. The
Queensland Full Court dismissed the
appeal, and its judgment tidied up a
few loose ends in the interpretation of
the Objectionable Literature Act of
1954, one of Mr V. Gair’s legacies as
Premier.
The Court decided:
• that the Act did not infringe 5.92 of
the Federal Constitution which requires
that commerce between the States shall
be “absolutely free”;
• that the Board may properly ban all
future issues of a magazine (which it
naturally cannot examine);
• that the Board does not have to
specify in which particular way, under
the Act, the banned publication is
objectionable;
• that the Board need not ask a party,
whose publication is about to be banned,
to show cause why it should not be
banned.
In its Report the Board also has some
sententious observations to make on the
banning of “The Group” in Victoria. It


*■»
* !
SI
11
:
.
g-*'/
«K: :/|W :';
i \y
i? 11l
#
J
/to association with BOAC and Qantas.
A 134.102
w
new light
on
Pacific flight!
FIJI
daylight
Boeing service
AIR-INDIA
The airline that treats you
like a Maharajah
repeats the line that it was not banned:
“All that was done in two States was to
take some preliminary steps to require
the publishers or the distributors of the
book in question to submit the publica-
tion to judicial process to ascertain
whether its distribution complied with the
laws of those States.” This is a fine
legalistic distinction unworthy of such
warriors for censorship.
The Board also expresses satisfaction
at the way the Commonwealth and the
States are co-operating on censorship
nowadays. Queensland’s censors are the
most enthusiastic supporters of unifica-
tion in this field.
TRADE
Consumers
Sydney v. Melbourne again
From a Melbourne Correspondent
Victorian Government’s decision to
establish a Consumers’ Protection
Council has focused attention on the
differences between two schools of
thought in the Australian Consumers’
Association. Although the Council will
be the first of its kind in Australia, one
group within the ACA, predominantly
Sydney-based, is reluctant to give it
whole-hearted support. It wants to use
the establishment of the State Council
as a lever to press for the formation of
a Federal body.
While the second school of thought,
mainly Melbourne-based, sees short-
comings in the Victorian legislation, it
wants to support the Council on the
assumption that some protection is better
than none. The move to set up the
Council follows the recommendations
earlier this year of Mr Cuthill, SM, in his
report on deceptive packaging.
It will check on advertising, packaging,
the labelling of goods, or any matter
relating to the fitness or purpose of goods
on sale.
Although the Council is to have “ade-
quate power” to investigate and make
recommendations, consumer interests
doubt whether this will be the case, as
consumer interests will have only “equal
say” with manufacturers and retailers
on the Council. (The plan is for one
member to represent manufacturers, one
to represent retailers, two members to
represent consumers, one of whom will
be a woman, and a fifth member to act
as chairman.)
THE PRIMATE
Next week’s cover story is “The
Primate at Home”, an interview by
Peter Hastings with the Anglican
Archbishop of Sydney, Dr Hugh
Gough.
OLYMPICS
Planning for ’68
Amateurish amateurs
BY DISCUS
"Oussia sent a hard core team of 370
to the Olympic Games, after four
years of training, trials and elimination
among 16,000 first class competitors.
This is how the Games are approached
by nations which go in to win, not
merely to participate.
Australia has to consider whether it
is going to compete in this spirit in 1968,
or remain among the rest of the nations
sending weekend amateurs. If we are
going to compete all the way, the plan-
ning should begin now.
First class venues are the main neces-
sity. Perth and Melbourne have bene-
fited from recent Games, but it will be
a long time before another Australian
city does. Sensibly, a Perth City Coun-
cil committee has just rejected a football
league application for the Perry Lakes
Stadium, and most of Melbourne’s
grounds are still available to the ama-
teurs.
The rest is a desert, with Sydney’s
amateur venues almost the worst of all.
Is it impossible to create a really
businesslike national amateur sports
organisation which will raise money for
grounds, training, the importation of
coaches, visiting athletes, and warmed
indoor pools for the swimmers?
There is company money available
for sport and some of it might be well
spent on facilities and venues named
after the donors. Millions would not be
necessary. At Kensington Oval in
Adelaide a mere £22,000 has built a
venue of Olympic standard for most of
the track and field sports. The SA
Government paid half, the rest was by
public subscription.
Another possibility for the amateurs
would be to raise the funds to participate
in some of the super-arenas the football
codes are planning in several cities, with
something like the magnificent Real
Madrid complex as an ideal. But that
may be a thought more for the 1972
Games than those of ’6B.
The lesson to be learned at the Tokyo
Games is that Australian athletes must
be both able and willing to train four
times as hard. The willingness would
not be hard to find, but “able” means
grounds, pools, indoor gymnasia, and
many more coaches, much more money.
Otherwise, after a short period of bril-
liance as a small nation with a big future
in international amateur sport, Australia
will fall back on its memories.


THE BRITISH IMAGE
“Do you remember
the Palais de Danse?
By HUGH CURNOW
It was, admittedly, a loaded ques-
tion . . . But one of the first things
I asked Britain’s Sir Norman
Kipping was what image does he feel
Britain finds hardest to sell Australia.
“Do you remember the Palais de
Danse?” 63-year-old Sir Norman asked,
in reply. “No, you wouldn’t,” he went
on, “ —you’re far too young. But in
the old days when we went to the Palais
there used to be a large globe suspended
in the centre of the ceiling above the
dance floor and covered with hundreds
of tiny mirrors. As the music played,
the globe would revolve and hundreds
of tiny images would flash from its
many facets and swarm over the heads
of the dancers. In a way, Britain is
xery much like that today.”
The same question was still loaded the
next day when we asked it of Sir Peter
Runge. He thought for a moment and
then came: “Do you remember the Palais
de Danse?” again . . . “No you wouldn’t,”
he went on, “—you’re far too young. But
in the old days when we went to the Palais
there used to be a large globe suspended
in the centre of the ceiling above the
dance floor and covered with hundreds
of tiny mirrors. As the music played,
the globe would revolve, you see, and
lights would play on its many facets.
And, do you know, Britain is very
much like that today?”
When it was the turn of another
British Fortnight official, Mr Denny
Lamb, to be interviewed, it seemed time
to take John Bull by the horns. “Do
you remember the Palais de Danse?”
I asked. “The what?” beefed Mr Lamb,
a former sideshow barker. “Oh, the good
old Palais! Do I ever by golly I do
indeed. What about it, then, eh?” He
sounded a litle apprehensive.
“Did it have a globe suspended in the
ceiling?”
“Yes, indeed it did, by golly! I shall
never forget it, never. Of course it was
all a long time ago, mind you. So what
do you want to know about it?”
“Well, does—”
“There were mirrors stuck all over
it and facets of light flashed all around
the dance floor just like TV Ballroom,
you know.”
“Yes. But does that symbolise Britain
today?”
“No. Not at all,” said Mr Lamb em-
phatically. “That’s the old, fuddy-duddy
image, that is. Bits of light everywhere.
Britain today is pulsating with one single
beam of modern progress. Industrial
drive, inventive thrust, forward outlook!
The New Britain’s the thing, not that
tired old Palais bit. It’s the Beatles who’ve
got the message. Upward and outward,
giving the lead. That sort of thing. The
Americans still think Bell invented tele-
vision, you know! Unbelievable, isn’t it?
Britain also invented jet aircraft, remem-
ber and radar. You’d be amazed how
many people today still don’t know how
ruddy much they owe Britain. That’s the
image we’re trying to get across now in
Australia. And I think this British Fort-
night in Sydney has done the trick . . .”
Obviously some sort of dispassionate
assessment of British Fortnight, the
British Exhibition and the new British
image-makers in this country was called
for.
Everyone knows about the old image.
In the past, Britain never had to pedal
very hard uphill to sell the idea of the
Commonwealth, the Empire, and the
united-we-stand-notion. Today it is prin-
cipally the job of Britain’s High Com-
missioner in Australia, Sir William
Oliver, to maintain what is left of that.
Then there is the Beefeater Image for
the tourists Windsor Castle, Changing
of the Guard, Pomp and Circumstance
(and pie ’n’ peas against the backdrop
of The Tower). Promotion of this
image has, apart from enthusiastic word-
of-mouth publicity, been boosted by the
British Travel Association in Australia.
The Association’s general manager in
Sydney, Mr Frank Kelly, estimates the
value of Australian tourism to Britain
at £l3m. per annum. He knows the
Beefeater Image does conflict with the
New Image: an efficient, “with-it” Bri-
tain, going all out to help Bloggs of
Birmingham sell his nuts, bolts and elec-
tronics. Something of a liaison officer
between these old and new images is
Mr Donald Trounson, first secretary of
the British Information Offices in Syd-
ney. There are times when his work can
be tricky.
But the New Image-makers in Aus-
tralia are led by the Big Four of the
British Exhibition. They are Sir Norman
Kipping, Sir Peter Runge, and Messrs
Edwards and Lamb.
Sir Norman, director-general of the
FBI (in this instance, the Federation of
British Industries) and chairman of Brit-
ish Overseas Fairs Ltd is Number One.
He is not too keen on Beefeaters.
Sir Peter, president of the same FBI
and chairman of the British Exhibition
in Sydney, likes to keep an eye on how
the various British images are getting
across. Chairman, also, of Tate and
Lyle, he is especially interested in sugar.
He agrees with Sir Norman about keep-
ON OTHER PAGES
Why - Britons Migrate 35
The Future of Australian-British
Trade 59


Performance!
Precision!
Prestige!
TAX
ASAHI
World's leading single-lens
reflex camera
Asahi Pentax . . . pride and joy
and ultimate choice of discrimi-
nating people all over the world;
people who, like yourself, ap-
preciate the ‘better things’ in life.
Asahi Pentax is unique. Its ap-
pearance and features place it in
a world apart. Over 100 acces-
sories put you in command of
every photographic situation. The
perfectionist in you knows no
compromise ... so could you
ever have considered another
camera?
Asahi PENTAX SV with f/1.8
Takumar Lens and E.R. case ,
£9O/0/0.
Asahi PENTAX Sla with f/2
Super-Takumar Lens and E.R.
case , £75/0/0 .
At your photo dealer
K.CIIII.M
ing the Beefeaters in their place, up to
a point.
Mr W. P. N. (“Bill”) Edwards, an
FBI director, is managing director of
British Overseas Fairs. Described by
British Information Services as “Edward-
ian in appearance”, he says he is not
the least Edwardian by nature. He
doesn’t think the Beefeaters have done
Britain’s image too much harm, but adds
that “Australia’s ’roos are just as bad,
anyway.”
Mr Denny Lamb, director of the
British Exhibition in Sydney, believes
in getting the hard sell over the easy
way. He says simply if it’s British it’s
best. And that includes Beefeaters. (He
thinks ICI missed the bus by refusing to
take a display stand at the Exhibition.)
Each of these men had his own ideas
about what the British Image ought to
be in Australia in 1964.
“It would be unrealistic,” said Sir
Norman, “to suppose that we can rid
everyone’s mind of the staid old tradi-
tional things that the word “Britain”
means to the world. That’s the Britain
people love. We don’t want to knock it.”
Rated Britain’s top business diplomat,
he stepped off a plane at Sydney’s inter-
national airport at the start of British
Fortnight in his travelling working
clothes, looking very much the man who
could fit in anywhere.
No rings
TTis three - button, British - made suit
was dark and unpatterned but the
lining was striped blue-and-white. So was
his shirt, which had French cuffs. His
cuffless trousers did not, however, have
French seams. He wore his handkerchief
up his sleeve. His socks were made of
black silk and ribbed and his well-worn
brogues were highly polished and black.
Like many other diplomats abroad, he
immediately ordered a scotch and water
with no ice. Unlike many diplomats
abroad, he was not wearing any rings.
“I’m fairly easy to get along with,”
he told reporters. “Most Britons are.
The trouble is you people think we take
you too much for granted. But I don’t
think you’ll be saying that after this
Exhibition.”
Lighting a filter-tip cigarette, he went
on: “We export one-third of what we
make. The ‘image’ our products have
I prefer to call their ‘reputation’. High
quality is the keynote. As for our repu-
tation, I like to think our business ethics
are above question.”
Mr Edwards was more revealing about
one aspect of all that. Relaxing in his
sporty, long shirtsleeves in his British
Exhibition office, he told us that many
“high quality” British goods can’t be
quite as high as they used to be. “The
way things are going in the world today
you have to build a certain degree of
destructibility into a product. Other-
wise you'll be out of step with the
economy. Things aren’t made to last as
long as they used to be. We’re not as
bad as the Americans about this, by any
means. They don’t make anything to
last for more than about ten years,
it seems. But we’ve had to take a leaf
from the American book and learn not
to spend quite so much time and money
on durability.”
Mr Edwards sang the praises of
Wilkinson’s stainless steel blades, as an
example of The New Britain. “They in-
vented stainless steel blades, of course,
but at first didn’t have the capital or
equipment to get them out in bulk to
the world market. However, in the past
three years their turnover has risen from
£20,000 to £2m. sterling, I might
add. It’s been just a matter of adding
noughts, really; they’ve gone ahead so
fast.”
Having spent a good deal of his life
in America (Princeton, Class of ’26), Mr
Edwards feels in a position to gauge the
American idea of the British. “They have
a double image of us. They like our pro-
ducts but they don’t like our aristo-
cratic, plumb-in-the-mouth human ex-
ports much. Neither do I, even though
I’m married to an aristocrat whom I
adore”. (Mrs Edwards was the Hon.
Shiela Cray, daughter of Viscount Falk-
land whose viscountcy is England's
second oldest). “By and large, I feel
the Australians think like the Ameri-
cans about us now. Australians don't
like snooty Britons. They like ordinary
Britons. No, I haven’t noticed any
change in my own personality since I’ve
been in Australia these past six months.
I wouldn’t say I’m typical of the New
Britain. But I’m not the Old Britain,
either. What has changed has been my
opinion of Aussies. I thought they were
boorish, pugnacious bores before I came
here. Now I know they’re shrewd,
usually reliable and extremely kind
people. Please don’t think I’m trying
to butter you up, by the way.”
Royal cufflinks
Mr Edwards talked, his gold cuff-
links flashed in the sunlight slanting
through his office window. Each is en-
graved with the initials “PP” entwined
under a crown. He explained: “These?
They were given me by Prince Philip.
No, I don't think it’s his personal crest
or anything like that. It’s just something
he has put on these links that he gives
to his friends.” What does “PP” stand for,
then? “Prince Philip, I suppose,” said
Mr Edwards . . .
Sir Peter Runge (rhymes with “lunge”)
burst a button off his jacket while we
talked about the Profumo scandal.
“Now that’s one of the things that’s far
better to have happen within the pri-
vacy of your own home,” he said, indi-
cating the button lying on the floor.
“But, really, do you think Britain’s
wonderful image for political stability
and reliability was at all shaken by that
Profumo thing?” he went on. “You
do? Well, I suppose it must be that he
lied to his friends—and to the Commons,
of course. Yes, that was unpardonable.
Very faith-shaking, I agree. But all the
rest of it was quite understandable,
really, wasn’t it? I mean, you can’t
blame him for falling for the lovely


m
sa
m
JN.
A
•■ >■
*3*
L4>?.rag
'..<v?'•» * •;«*-- •**£*•■??**"* i%jui4
jßSSgfg*
***«*.
XK
law
THE OIL INDUSTRY SPECIFIES..
In many of the major petro-chemical complexes built in Australia,
Olympic cables, wires and flexibles have been specified. To suit
conditions never previously encountered in this country, Olympic has
always come up with the answer!
Throughout Australia, Olympic sales engineers are available to assist
you and your own industry with expert advice on your particular problems.
Now or tomorrow your planning will call for Olympic cablo
Oh)
mptc
CABLE S


<9
%
<3*
ip
<9
O
9
9
<a
9
%
s*!
9
%
CA
<c
%
K
a*
8
:
:;; s£lSs
■lit
;vF:
ii
:■
F- ';•.' '' ',
Hi
■
m
m m
~,,;
- .
■
WHm
ii
5
IS
■
&
w
m
.the
forward
line
featuring a forward pitch that follows the
natural concave shape of your shoulders and
contours of your chest. THE GREATEST SUIT
EVER with so many outstanding features. More hand
stitching more fine detailing silky Bemberg linings
and trouser creases that are SI-RO-SET. You find all
these fine features in a Keith Courtenay Ambassador
The Finest Suit in Australia.
SEEN AND BOUGHT
AT BETTER STORES
EVERYWHERE
For your nearest write:
(fath Gw4eMffi4
Flinders Lane, Melbourne*
A Keith Courtenay keeps its crisp new look longer than any other suit
Miss Keeler, now can you? There
wasn’t anything kinky about that. No,
nothing kinky at all! Quite refreshing,
in a way. But, do you know, it was all
a great joke at the time. Everyone try-
ing to fill in all the blank names about
you-know-who doing you-know-what
with you - know - whom. Just like a
parlor game. Terribly diverting. But
I don’t really think it’s had much of a
long-range effect on the British Image.
That remains so diverse, everything from
Buckingham Palace to beauty contests
Such a sweet girl
Oir Peter admitted that getting Prin-
cess Marina to come to Australia
for British Fortnight had helped bolster
the diversity of the British Image, as
viewed by the FBI. Miss Britain, like-
wise. “Something for everyone, really.
Though I must say I can't recognise Miss
Britain when she takes her wig off. Her
own hair is quite different, you know.
“I passed her in the lift at my hotel
and didn’t even say ‘Hello’. She must
have thought me terribly rude. Such a
sweet girl, too. I’m surprised to learn
that some of the Press think she’s dread-
ful. As for that story about last year’s
Miss Britain knocking a Brisbane re-
porter unconscious, I don’t know if it’s
true but I like to think it is. Hit back,
and all that, you know! Britain has had
its share of suffragettes, too, don’t for-
get. Something for everyone, after all.”
(What happened in Brisbane was that
a journalist claimed Miss Britain
had socked him in the eye at a party.
Subsequent investigation by the Press
revealed that she only slapped him across
the face when he insulted her dapper
male escort behind his back. The story
was considered too weak to print.)
As for the main British images com-
peting with one another in Australia
now (The British Commonwealth, the
“with-it” FBI, and the Beefeater), Sir
Peter concluded: “I think the FBI one
is winning.”
Others think so, too. Last year’s Bri-
tish Week saw the beginnings and this
year’s British Fortnight saw the full
splendors of the get-out-there-and-sell
image Britain has been carting around
the world in one patent package deal,
The British Exhibition. All the other
elements of the British picture abroad —
royalty, the military, the arts and crafts,
the olde traditions, etc. —seem content
to follow in its weighty wake. It is the
Exhibition that is king, if only for a
fortnight. A Princess praises it. Prime
Ministers patronise it. Bandsmen march
for it. Gymnasts jump for it. The flag
is raised for it. And, when it is all over,
it is the Exhibition that pays for it.
To date, Mr Lamb is delighted with
the way the Exhibition has made out.
An Exhibition Press officer was more


SHOW PRIZE-WINNERS
FROM YOUR USUAL SUPPLIER
■'•’l
i
VINTAGE
WINES
At the 1964 Sydney Royal Show wine
judging, Lindeman’s Wines were
awarded more prizes than any other
competitor. Lindeman’s were the Most
Successful Exhibitors at the 1963
Adelaide and Brisbane Shoivs. Actual
prize-ivinners are included amongst this
selection of Lindeman’s 'Vintage Wines.
COOLALTA WHITE BURGUNDY,
VINTAGE 1963.
A full, round, soft White Burgundy from Lindeman's
Coolalta Vineyard, Hunter River Valley, N.S.W.
Awarded GOLD MEDAL 1964 Sydney Royal Show-
Table Dry White Export Class.
PRIVATE BIN CLARET BIN 45,
VINTAGE 1962.
A light claret with a pleasing tannin palate made
from Red Hermitage grapes grown in the Hunter
River, Goulburn and Clare Valleys. Awarded GOLD
MEDAL 1963 Adelaide Show and FIRST PRIZE 1963
Melbourne Show—Table Dry Red Export Classes.
PRIVATE BIN BURGUNDY
BIN 50, VINTAGE 1962.
A soft, round, generous Burgundy with full flavour,
made from Red Hermitage grapes grown in the
Hunter River, Goulburn and Clare Valleys. Awarded
SILVER MEDAL 1963 Sydney Show and SILVER MEDAL
1964 Sydney Show—Table Dry Red Export Classes.
COOLALTA RED HERMITAGE,
VINTAGE 1962.
A light, delicate claret made from Red Hermitage
grapes grown at Lindeman’s “Coolalta” Vineyard,
Hunter River Valley.
GRENACHE ROSE, VINTAGE 1962.
A light, delicate Rosh, made from Grenache grapes
grown in the Clare Valley.
PRIVATE BIN RIESLING BIN 23,
VINTAGE 1963.
A light, delicate, crisp wine made from Riesling
grapes grown in the Hunter River and Clare Valleys.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL 1964 Sydney Royal Show-
Table Dry White Export Class.
PRIVATE BIN CHABLIS BIN 64,
VINTAGE 1963.
A crisp, dry wine with an appealing bouquet and
flavour, made from White Hermitage and Semilion
grapes grown in the Hunter River and Clare Valleys.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL 1963 Adelaide Wine Show-
Table Dry White Export Class.
PRIVATE BIN WHITE BURGUNDY
BIN 77, VINTAGE 1963.
A round, soft, generous wine made from White
Hermitage and Semilion grapes grown in the Hunter
River and Clare Valleys. Awarded GOLD MEDAL 1963
Brisbane Royal Show—Table Dry White Export Class.
PRIVATE BIN PORPHYRY SAU-
TERNE BIN 36, VINTAGE 1959.
A rich, luscious and sweet sauterne made from
Semilion grapes grown at Lindeman's Ben Ean Vine-
yard, Hunter River Valley, N.S.W.
SUNSHINE VINEYARD RIESLING,
VINTAGE 1963.
A soft, light, delicate Riesling from Lindeman’s Sun-
shine Vineyard, Hunter River Valley, N.S.W. Awarded
SILVER MEDAL 1964 Sydney Royal Show as a 1963
Vintage Dry White.
Order these Lindeman’s Vintage Wines from
Hotels, Clubs, Restaurants and other Licensed Retailers
throughout Australia, New Guinea and Papua
conservative about the fortnight’s suc-
cess. “We won’t know for sure, until
we see Department of Trade figures in
12 months, if it's been a success or not.”
There had been something for every-
one, as Sir Peter Runge had said: There
was the Tattoo with its massed military
bands—even if they were playing “Can’t
Buy Me Love”; the dare-devil motor-
cyclists; the jewellery display the Theatre
Of The Air (with BOAC model jets
zooming around); science-age electronics;
make-up displays and color television. All
dished up with a side serve of Queen
Mary’s antique furniture and washed
down with a bottle of Guinness.
“An important part of the Exhibition’s
image is an implied respect for not only
the products but also the country that
has produced them,” a Press officer told
me. “The show’s official catalogue en-
dorses this feeling: it’s printed on glossy
paper, you'll notice,” he added. The
251-page catalogue begins with portraits
of the Queen, Sir Robert Menzies
(touched up) and Sir Alec Douglas-Home
(slightly out of focus), in that order.
The Queen’s message, printed opposite
her portrait, was brief. Forty of its sixty
words were monosyllabic.
Back to the Palais
Tt has been impossible to assess the real
selling value of the Exhibition from
sales announced during the past three
weeks. Some large contracts worth a
total of hundreds of thousands of pounds
were finalised long before the Exhibition
opened and announced only after it
opened, for publicity purposes. Value
of the goods on display at the Exhibition
was put at more than £2om. Cost of
staging the Exhibition was about £4m.
(Air fares for the Tattoo troops alone
were exactly £99,600.) “Even if we
succeed only in maintaining the amount
of trade we have with Australia, the cost
has been minimal. Just about one per
cent of the value of our export trade to
us, that’s all. Cheap advertising at the
price,” said Sir Peter Runge. (The
official catalogue included a full-page
reminder to exhibitors that next year’s
British Exhibition will be held in Tokyo.)
Some 5000 tons of machinery shipped
from Britain included few machine tools,
however. “It’s a shame, but we couldn’t
get everyone to exhibit in Sydney at this
time,” Sir Norman Kipping told me.
Mr Lamb was more explicit. “The
machine tool boys are going to stage
their own exhibition next year. That’s
why they wouldn't come in on this one.
I think they made a mistake, but that’s
what happened,” he said. “But the real
fools were ICI,” he added. “They’ve
got one of Britain’s biggest industries,
yet they boycott us—huh!” Sir Norman
added that others of Britain’s top indus-
tries had come good with displays. He
listed Unilever, English Electric, Imperial
Tobacco, British Motors and Vickers,
off-hand. There were 400-odd exhibitors.
More than 200 of these were manufac-
turers now Austral.an-based d.splay.ng
British products—made in Australia.
“When all the flag-waving and curtsey-
ing is over, the Britain abroad today
boils down to a hard-working travelling
salesman who can deliver the goods,”
Sir Norman said. The hard core of this
hard sell emerges, then, as Export Action
and Export Investment.
With the Fortnight over, it seems clear
that, in these post-Common Market days,
Australia is not only wanted but also
nee ded. Xod she is bei flattered
and wooed rather h blandished with
T •, . ,
Im , pe pressures And, as often as
" 0t ’ “ ls now a lad wlth a straight-
forward, no-nonsense, north country
accent who wants to sweep her off her
ee f with the lure of a two-way trade
tango ... Not so unlike the Palais, when
you come to think of it.


Lymburner: Working
Like a Charm
The mention of Lindsay or the Charm School would make the
modern young painter put down his blow-torch and reach for
his gun. But , Art is long . . .
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Mr Francis Lymburner at a desk
scratched away at the notes which
were to be the introduction to the
catalogue. “I wish in a way it could be
a posthumous exhibition,” he said. “That
would make it so easy. Everyone could
come along and say, ‘How marvellously
talented Francis Lymburner was! That
was the Charm School! What a pity he
died so young!’ And then, of course, it
would be a limited edition. Everyone
would know there would be no more
Lymburners and prices would be so
much higher.”
But the exhibition of about 40 paint-
ings done between 1942 and 1952, open-
ing at the University of Sydney War
Memorial Gallery of Fine Arts on Octo-
ber 16, is not posthumous. Mr Lym-
burner is very much alive in his studio
in a decrepit building in Pitt Street, a
block from the Sydney Town Hall, in a
city which, rediscovering, he finds “shat-
teringly beautiful”.
The feeling, perhaps, is of one who
has come back from the dead. Mr Lym-
burner spent the last 10 years in London.
These years now seem to have a “night-
marish” quality. “I never really felt on
the wavelength over there,” he said. “I
never was part of the artistic life. There
is so much here that I want to paint.
There was so little that I wanted to do
there, and everything had been done so
many times before.
“And, of course, I never had any great
success there. Before I left London, one
of the few dealers whom I respected said
‘Everybody here knows about you, but
you’ve been unlucky.’ And, I suppose
that's about it, although I don't feel envy
for the ones who are lucky. I never be-
longed to an expatriate clique. Before I
went I used to say, ‘Life’s going on over
there, in Paris, in Rome, and here I am
stuck in rotten old Sydney.’ But once you
were there life didn’t seem so exciting.
“Just the same, it was an experience
I had to have and I would not have been
without it. I think my generation is the
last which will have such excessively
romantic feelings about Europe, such
great expectations of London. The young
ones who come now have a totally
different attitude. For instance, Brett
Whiteley, with whom I was quite friendly.
He bounced into London. To him it was
just another town, just another place to
crack wide open.”
While Mr Lymburner was in London
his reputation here declined drastically,
then in the past few years rose almost
spontaneously from its limbo. “My ex-
wife, who really knows little about art,
unearthed a lot of my stuff from under
her bed,” he explained. “This was sold
through a Sydney gallery. I suppose be-
cause the supply was there the demand
grew. Most of these paintings and draw-
ings I had set aside because I was dis-
satisfied with them. Many of them were
unsigned and buyers keep bringing them
in for signature. However, I don’t feel
annoyed about their being unearthed
and I don’t feel badly because they were
sold much under current values.”
With only this small encouragement,
Mr Lymburner came back a few months
ago to a city swarming with highly
successful abstract painters. These he
must face as a foundation member of
the superannuated Charm School.
“I must admit that I feel I have
reached a crisis,” he said. “Many of the
painters of the ’forties are painting beau-
tifully, but I'm not sure that I want to
do what they are doing. I know there are
probably a hundred young couples
furnishing a house in Sydney at this
moment who would like a Lymburner on


The World’s FASTEST METAL
travels through
GOODYEAR
HOSE
The United States has announced the
development of the super jet, the Lock-
heed A-11. This top-secret aircraft,
years ahead of even the TFX, is con-
structed mainly of titanium. Major source
of titanium is rutile and Australia has
almost 90 per cent of world supplies.
Goodyear comes right into the picture
with the important part Goodyear hoses
play in the reclamation of this important
mineral.
There’s no tougher job for hose than
handling mineral sands. Goodyear handies
it better than any other hose in the world.
Abrasion rides high as mineral sands grind their way from
sea-bed to concentrate plant. Day in, day out millions of tons
of sand travel through Goodyear Material Conducting Hose.
Because of their outstanding endurance, their amazing longevity
under rubber-rending pressure, Goodyear Materia! Conducting
Hoses are chosen by the Associated Minerals Group. Through
Goodyear hose comes the vital materials to send the world’s
fastest planes hurtling through the sky.
J * w
Twenty ft length of 8 in. Material Conducting Hose operating on
the dredge line of Associated Minerals Consolidated Ltd., Cudgen,
N.S.W., plant.
Material Conducting Hose with integral
flanges on the tailings line of the plant.
For full information on Goodyear Industrial Products,
contact Goodyear Industrial Products Division, at the Goodyear Branch in your State
GOOD/YEA
0 189


the walls, but do I want to go on trying
to fill that demand? An artist’s job is to
find out who he is. I only know so far
that I am not the sort of man who does
animals and backstage scenes, or that I
am not necessarily that sort of man. But
here I think I can work it out in peace.”
Mr Lymburner said that he wasn’t
terribly worried by the fashion for ab-
stract painting. That was something re-
presentational artists learnt to live with.
But it was silly to hope that fashion
wouldn't influence you at all.
“You can’t avoid it,” he said. “When
Rauchenberg came to London, there
were articles in every paper, every critic
was proclaiming his merits. He seemed to
me to be a gifted display man, but you
can't help saying to yourself, ‘am I the
only one out of step?’
“That’s why I thought it rather wonder-
ful to see the Norman Lindsay show at
the Dominion. To me it was epochal,
remember old ‘Bully’ drawings from
when I was a child in the bush. But I
don’t think the critics saw him in per-
spective that wonderful continuity,
that going on doing what you think best
in spite of all fashions and changes.”
"1%/fr Lymburner finds the artistic scene
■*■*■*■ here exremely lively. “I have seen
some very good paintings,” he said, “al-
though they are not the ones which are
winning the prizes. There are so many
rich prizes that artists must be tempted
to paint the sort of pictures that win
awards. That’s the sort of temptation we
didn’t have to face.
“But the whole art world is so different.
It’s part of the affluent society, of course.
Paintings are fetching much higher prices,
the people who are buying them are
different. The painter has status. In my
day he was just an off-beat ratbag. Louis
James, back from Europe, went to a bank
manager about a housing loan and dis-
covered, to his surprise, that an artist
these days is often a good financial risk.”
Now all Mr Lymburner’s energies and
optimism are directed to the exhibition
which is scheduled for four months from
now. The theme will probably be the
beaches around Sydney.
“I am terribly stimulated by the
beaches,” he said. “Once I get near
them I just draw and draw. Everything
you learnt in life class suddenly is there
before you in those half-naked bodies,
but they are now related to each other
and to the background.
“I want to paint Australia, but not the
bush. I saw too much of it as a child
in Queensland, and knowing it as I do I
believe many artists simply paint a
romanticised, Victorian version of it. I
want to paint Australia, here and now.”
In 1964 Who Wants
a Lindsay?
Norman Lindsay drawing to illustrate Aristophanes’ “Lysistrata”, published
by Fanfrolico Press.
An exhibition of paintings and draw-
ings by the noted and once-con-
troversial artist, Mr Norman Lind-
say, finished last Saturday at the Domin-
ion Gallery, Sydney, with sales of about
70 works for £6OOO-odd. During the
exhibition the Dominion came to the
end of a printing of 5000 catalogues, so
considerably more than 5000 people
visited the show. At one stage, said a
gallery attendant, crowds were “shuffling
through like at the Royal Show”, and a
new notice had to be put on the single
lift in the building: “Seven people only.”
These statistics are impressive, but, in
these days, not exceptional. They are in-
teresting only in the light of the current
view that Lindsay and his majestic, naked
women are out of fashion a view
sometimes put forward by his devoted
admirers, who like to see him in the role
of neglected genius.
Who in 1964 wants to own a Lindsay?
Before the exhibition opened, a publican
offered to buy the lot off the walls. Mr
Lindsay, who acts through his wife, Mrs
Rose Lindsay, or his daughter, Mrs Bruce
Glad, was not interested in this offer,
although the publican might get what’s
left after the exhibition closes.
The director of the Dominion, Mr
Peter Evatt, said that buyers from the
exhibition and the people who came to
the gallery in search of a Lindsay were
either collectors of early Australian
paintings or collectors of good, represen-
tative Australian painters. To these must
be added those who simply want a Lind-
say. These people don’t own another


%u,
■ H
w
X
rHOW 1
SAFE ARE
YOUR
[RECORDS
What importance do you place on your business records? It’s
easy to say “Nothing will happen to them,” but it is not always
the other fellow that is devastated by fire ... it could be you!
Only specially built fire-resistant equipment, such as the range
built in Australia by Chubb, can make your records —your
business memory—completely safe from fire. The fact that a
building is fireproof does not alter the fact that the contents of
the building remain inflammable. Today, with the introduction
of the many synthetic materials into office furniture, a fire in a
modern building can create an even more intense heat than
previously experienced. And how do you assess, for an insurance
claim, the list of your outstanding accounts or a secret file that
may have taken years to compile. Make a point to contact Chubb
and to examine the comprehensive range of fire-resistant record-
protection cabinets. It pays to be careful when your business
is at stake.
CHDBB'S AUSTRALIAN CO. LTD.
Ml
painting and don’t look at other paint-
ings. To them, Lindsay represents art.
“Generally at the end of an exhibition
the paintings might go out to three or
four suburbs, such as Bellevue Hill,
Castlecrag, Wahroonga,” Mr Evatt said.
“But these will go all over the place
Parramatta, Coogee, country towns and
so on.”
Mr Evatt said that young modern
painters often buy a Lindsay drawing,
although they laugh at the paintings.
Lindsay’s nudes no longer shock, but,
apparently, they can still cause minor
domestic dissension. One not particularly
voluptuous nude oil painting has been
bought by a foreign-born doctor, whose
wife “won’t have it in the bedroom until
it gets some clothes on.”
Mr Evatt said that his gallery had
acted for Mr Lindsay for the past three
years. The Lindsays set the price for
each work. “We sold one drawing for 18
guineas, then someone offered 45 for it,”
Mr Evatt said, “but whatever price the
Lindsays put on a painting stays.” The
highest-priced painting is two thousand
guineas. Some country people are think-
ing of buying it.
No signs of suntan
HPhe exhibition contains many paintings
A which are not dated, and a few which
go back to Mr Lindsay’s early days. But,
Mr Evatt said, about two-thirds have
been done in the past few years. The
artist has been working steadily, although
at 84 he is not as prolific as he once was.
He has no difficulty in finding suitable
models, although he insists that they
show no signs of suntan.
The exhibition does not represent a
boom in Lindsays, although Mr Evatt
said that prices were up 50 to 60 per
cent on those of a decade ago. But Mr
Lindsay has been through so many vicis-
situdes, there have been so many bursts
of notoriety, so many periods of neglect
that Lindsay works have boomed and
bust almost as often as the national
economy.
A spokesman for Geoff. Gray, who
auctions a good deal of Australian art,
said that the demand for Lindsays seem-
ed to have gradually slackened over the
past 10 years and showed no signs of
growing stronger. The tremendous supply
of works was something which weakened
demand. The auctioneer said that the
steadiest demand was from visiting
Americans. The Dominion Gallery has
the same experience. “Visiting Americans
want two things a Lindsay and a
bark painting,” Mr Evatt said.
What would weaken the market in
Lindsay would be if one of the several
large collections of his works came on
the market. Some collectors have up to
100 pieces, including pen-and-ink draw-
ings, etchings, woodcuts as well as water-
colors and oils. Sometimes the collection
extends to first editions of Mr Lindsay’s
nove l s
There is even the story, which no one
would care to check for fear of finding
it is not true, of the collector who went
to Creswick when the old Lindsay home
was sold and bought the lavatory seat
because in a reflective moment the young
Norman had carved his initials on it.
The big collectors almost invariably
“knew Norman” and collect anecdotes
°f his wit and memories of his generosity
i us * as carefully as they gather up his
works. It is unlikely these collections
will come on the market until, inevitably,
they become part of deceased estates.
Whatever the final critical evaluation of
Lindsay is, it is hard to think of anyone
becoming as attached to a heap of junk
metal as some collectors have become to
their Lindsays.


mmmm
■IRNI
m m ;
:
■: .
m
mm
WM
n
■
■ ".'film-::- :':::
WmmmmwmmmmmMm.
■■
8888!
*||
11
■ ■
8 :
W/MzMSmm
m
m
■: ■
■
■
m
Wwm
Lufthansa and the three minute egg
LA.13708C
While your breakfast egg cooked
this morning, a Lufthansa aircraft
took off or landed, somewhere in
the world.
Every three minutes, somewhere in
the world, a Lufthansa flight touches
down. Gently.
Or farewells the ground and points
its nose across the globe. Maybe
towards Buenos Aires. Or New
York. Or Stockholm. Or Hong
Kong. Or one of 49 other cities in
five continents. Every three min-
utes. 480 times a day. And flown
with such regularity that Lufthansa
currently holds punctuality records
on several routes including the
coveted North Atlantic.
Punctuality. Regularity. Globe-
girdling service. This is the kind of
flying the world-travelling business-
man needs.
Especially when backed by Con-
tinental cuisine, English-speaking
cabin crews and many thoughtful
extras to ensure your complete
comfort.
Lufthansa’s jets? The Boeing 707
Intercontinental, biggest and most
powerful of the 707 family. The
brand new Boeing 727, introduced
to Europe by Lufthansa. The Boe-
ing 7208, proved one of the most
reliable airliners ever.
You can join one as near to home
as Bangkok, Hong Kong, San
Francisco or Johannesburg.
Every three minutes, somewhere in
the world, a planeload of travellers
starts enjoying a journey—full of
Lufthansa service. Which includes
three-minute eggs if required.
Why not be among them?
Lufthansa also serves two-minute
eggs.
YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR TAA HAS FULL DETAILS
©
Lufthansa
German Airlines


dSUNy.
ArnKsir
FOR SUPERB PRINTING
BY
INTAGLIO
MAKERS OF
FINE PRINTING INKS
FOR
OVER A QUARTER
OF A CENTURY
★
DIAL 42-4636
I
Sirius Road, Lane Cove, Sydney.
Around Melbourne
WHAT'S BEEN MISSIN' FROM KISSIN'
Vou may as well know the truth:
your correspondent always has
had a weakness for lush parties turned
on in the name of Public Relations.
PR-wise, it had been a most unusual
week. First came the invitation to
the Cutex flavored-lipstick party at
the Southern Cross Hotel.
At the party there was a strong
gathering. As the representative of
strong, aggressive manliness, they had
Ted Whitten “Mr Football” the
captain and coach of Footscray. For
the Sydney show there was Mike
Cleary, the handsome Rugby League
star. Then to represent all flavored
females: Wendy Lingham from the
cast of “Camelot”.
Mr Vernon Casey, of Cutex, rather
nervously stepped up to the micro-
phone to tell the story, but your
correspondent couldn’t wait. He had
to peruse his Press kit . . .
“For many years now the name of
Chesebrough-Ponds has been synony-
mous with the best things in life
Ponds face creams, Vaseline hair
dressings, Odo - ro - no deodorants,
Angel Face cosmetics. They are now
proud to announce a product that
will start an exciting new trend: gay,
new lipstick as fresh as tomorrow and
as pretty as the blossom of spring.
Cutex flavored-lipstick. It’s what’s
been missin’ from kissin’.”
As advertising copy this was ex-
citing reading; one had to continue.
“For the first time in the cosmetic
industry, Cutex has turned lipstick-
wearing into an exciting adventure by
making taste and fragrance an integral
part of four new summer shades:
• Orange Kiss—a light, go-with-tan,
fire-tone, flavor-fresh orange.
Cherry Kiss —a coral-pink souffle
with a ripe cherry flavor.
Peppermint Kiss—a soft, summer
pink, delectably cooled with
peppermint.
Caramel Kiss toasted mocha,
deliciously flavored with cara-
mel.”
We read on: “Never before have
candy jar flavors been distilled with
all their original freshness into lip-
stick taste-scents so intriguingly, in-
stantly definite. This makes ‘for-
bidden fruits’ the season’s most subtle
weapons . . . lovely to look at . . .
fun to wear . . . and destined to give
the kiss a new dimension. Look for
excitement at lip-level.”
Mr Vernon Casey told the gather-
ing how the flavored lipsticks had
swept the United States and Great
Britain, how they were particularly
relished by the teen market (from 14
years to 25). Indeed the sales were
going so well in the US they were
even introducing four new flavors:
pineapple, grapefruit, cola and straw-
berry.
“It’s been suggested that we try
some real Australian flavors,” he
said, “but flavors like that are hard
to get into a tube.”
Mr Casey then introduced the
ladies. Wendy Lingham, the hostess,
was in peppermint and she had with
her a team of “the season’s most
subtle weapons”. There was a blonde
in peppermint, a redhead in caramel,
a brownette in orange and a brunette
in cherry. If you are interested in the
trend of modern lipsticks, the orange
was pale orange, the peppermint pale
pink, the cherry was red and the
caramel was the color of mud.
The next event was the playing of
the radio commercial, which no doubt
will be heard every time one turns
on the radio in coming months. To
a nice, moody background of African
jungle drums working towards a
climax, it goes like this:
GIRL: Johnny?
BOY: Yes.
GIRL: Come closer . . .
(Drums getting louder and more
intense.)
GIRL: I’ve got a secret ... a brand
new lipstick secret. I’ll put some on
so as you can know the news.
BOY: Mmmmmm-a-n! It’s a new
kind of kiss! It’s flavored!
As you can imagine, after such a
build up the audience was in a high
state of excitement, urgently waiting
to find out what had been missin’
from kissin’. Alas, the girls were
unresponsive. They gave no practical
demonstrations. However, one pretty
flavor did remark: “Will I use it?
What do you think? Look, brother,
the day I need flavor to get favors
from the boys then I’ll give the game
away.”
BATMAN


A
■
u
ft
&
■
■
■
QUALITY ALL THE WAY WITH INTERNATIONAL AB-110 AND AB-120 UTILITIES
Quality all the way...
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
Quality knows no compromise. That’s why Inter-
national trucks are quality all the way.
In the utility or lightweight truck field, the Inter-
national AB-110 leads simply because it is a truck,
built to do a truck job. It’s not a utility body built
on to a passenger car chassis . . . it's truck through
and through . . . tough, rugged, sinewy . . . with the
power to give it nippiness in city traffic, comfort-
able speed on the open road, stamina to haul over
unmade tracks or farm paddocks.
Every component is a truck component...designed,
developed, tested on the job to meet the exacting
performance standards set for ail International
vehicles . . . then put into production immediately
not as a special feature of a new model.
That's why International quality is always ahead of
the field.
These are the things that count . . . quality and
reliability ... the kind that has made International
the most trusted name in trucks.
1907
57 years of truck-building
experience have developed
the original International
auto buggy into the world’s
most complete range of
trucks! There’s an Inter-
nationalsuited to YOUR needs!
INTERNATIONAL. TRUCKS
THE MOST COMPLETE ~~
RANGE IN THE WORLD
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. OF AUST. PTY. LTD. DISTRICT SALES OFFICES: CAPITAL CITIES. WORKS: DANDENONG, GEELONG, PORT MELBOURNE
H1249M99


M.
Y, -s-
V"
Mr. Hiller
and his craft
THE IMPORTANCE OF A NAME
Mr. Ernest Hiller is a craftsman.
He makes suits with more than
ordinary care.
He takes a craftsman’s pride in a
job well done. That’s why you’ll
find his own personal signature on
every suit he makes. It isn’t just
a brand name.
It’s Ernest Hiller’s personal guar-
antee to you.
It means your suit has been
tailored from the very finest fab-
rics. With the care and patience
Mr. Hiller demands.
It means you can buy the
latest international styles
for as little as £25.19.6.
woo
Internationally styled suits, sportcoats and trousers
at better stores in the City, Suburbs and Country.
OVERSEAS
The Queen’s
Canada?
Or will it join the
United States?
From DAVID CORT in New York
Use your imagination: suppose the
United States to include Canadian
States named British Columbia,
Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, On-
tario, Quebec, New Brunswick, Nova
Scotia, Prince Edward Island, New-
foundland (including Labrador), plus
the Yukon and Northwest Territories
say, ten new States, twenty new senators,
and representatives for a population of
19 million, or about the same as Cali-
fornia’s.
Of course, it is a fantasy, but seem-
ingly remote events have had the effect
of making it not an altogether idle fan-
tasy. The first was based on the Ameri-
can invention of Federal Union. The
second was de Gaulle’s exclusion of
England from the Common Market. This
resuscitation of the haughtiness of Louis
XIV must have inspired French Quebec,
or some minority of it, to threaten to
secede as a sovereign nation to be called
Laurentie. Canadians began to wonder
about their identity.
“Maclean’s” magazine, testing this
mood, polled Canadians on whether they
would consider joining the United
States, and published the results in its
issue of June 6, 1964. Before looking at
this summary of opinion, let- us pursue
the fantasy a little way. Following a
United States-Canada federation, there
would first be agonized attempts by the
American political parties to capture the
very different segments of the Canadian
electorate, with the short-term prospects
very doubtful. However, the twenty
Canadians in the US Senate would cer-
tainly improve the climate of that body
by liberal, or even just sensible, stand-
ards. Southern filibusters would become
a bad dream of the unregretted past.
The Canadians would contribute their
experience with multilateral foreign
policy and advanced social legislation;
and the Americans might have to learn
a little French.
Fifty-nine contiguous American States
would sweep from the Arctic ice pack to
the Rio Grande, and the land area of
the US would approach that of Russia
7.3 as against 8.1 million square
miles. The combined sovereignties could
manage the Great Lakes-St Lawrence
system intelligently instead of compe-
titively. (The Lake Huron water is
dangerously low). In general, the man-
agement of a total continent ought to
be more successful than management by
halves.
Set against the realisation of this
fantasy is the peculiar “reality” that
Canada is that mysterious and holy
concept, a nation firmly established and
fully crystallised in the minds of most
of its inhabitants. But Canada’s self-doubt
comes, ironically, just as some 40 new
nations, with no real credentials or his-
tory or concept of nationhood, have
been encouraged to invent their identi-
ties, their national names, flags, sym-
bols and elites. A wild inflation may
have depreciated the concept of nation,
and this intuition would naturally have
come first to the rational Canadians.
The self-doubt could be ended with
the cry, “Rally ’round the flag, boys!”
But just at this moment came the shat-
tering news that Canada has no flag.
What it's been using is the British Red
Ensign with the Union Jack at upper
left and the Canadian shield in lower
right. This latter incorporates the Eng-
lish leopards and lion, Irish harp, Cana-
dian maple leaves and fleurs-de-lis.
French Quebec takes fleurs-de-lis to be
a Bourbon symbol. In this case, it is
not; it is the Plantagenet device in the
English royal arms and represents that
house’s claim to the crown of France,
not abandoned until 1801.
Prime Minister Lester Pearson has
proposed that the Red Ensign could still
be used, but that the official flag of
Canada should be a twig of three red
maple leaves on a white field bounded
by two blue bars (“from sea to sea”).
Being autumnal red, the leaves are
clearly about to fall, and it soon seemed
that Pearson’s government might be
about to fall too. The new breed ob-
jected to any retention of the Red En-
sign; the old breed objected to the
maple leaves which, to a long-time asso-
ciate of maple trees, must seem an
unexciting sort of national symbol. This
safe, meaningless, symbolic issue got the
sensible Canadians out on the barricades.
“Mobs”, so to speak, of old ladies flying
the Red Ensign met with smaller but
more active groups of young men flying


SUCCESSFUL
CONVENTIONS
TAKE PLACE AT...
The hotel conveniently situated close
to the commercial heart of the Aus-
tralian capital.
The hotel with the experience, the staff
and special facilities conventions re-
quire.
The hotel with truly comfortable ac-
commodation.
Your convention runs really smoothly at The
Hotel Canberra. Your particular requirements
are closely attended to by experienced staff
and you use special rooms giving you the
comfort and privacy you require. Projection
facilities are available and of course you
receive the same renowned Hotel Canberra
service as other guests. Accommodation is
tasteful and comfortable. Every room has
bath or shower and toilet facilities. Round-
the-clock room service, naturally. Single
rooms 'from £3/17/6 a day.
THE
HOTEL CANBERRA
Commonwealth Avenue, A.C.T.
Telephone: 7-2251.
The hotel that caters specially for conventions.
HC-24
m
THE
TJ
IT
O
T
E
L
C
A
N
B
E
R
R
A
the maple leaf, and elaborately failed
to join battle.
Large numbers of those regarded as
true Americans are, in fact, Canadians
of the first or second generation: witness
only Supreme Court Justice Douglas,
Mary Pickford, Walter Pidgeon, Saul
Bellow, Fred Astaire, Mort Sahl, Robert
Goulet, Raymond Massey, Cyrus Eaton,
Leon Edel, and so on indefinitely. The
mongrel similiarity of the two popula-
tions has increased since Canada began
accepting non-English immigration in
quantity—a million Germans, half a mil-
lion Italians. The oddities in the two
populations are only Negroes and white
Southerners and Canadiens and Eskimos.
In general, a Canadian who crosses the
border instantly becomes an average
American.
And so “Maclean's” asked a cross-
section of Canadians whether they would
prefer to be Americans, without even
crossing the border. The size of the
sample, 1042, though it looks small to
me, is said to be representative polling
practice.
To this apparently shocking question,
12 per cent gave a loud and clear YES,
17 per cent just said yes, and 9 per cent
didn’t know. That is, 29 per cent favored
political union, and nobody punched the
questioners in the nose.
Among the disadvantaged groups, the
percentages of yes voters were far
higher; 47 per cent of the unemployed,
43 per cent of those earning under
$3OOO, 42 per cent of those with only
primary education, 40 per cent under
$4OOO. The lowest percentages were for
university graduates, 20 per cent, and
the retired, 17 per cent.
The Battle of 1812
to the consequences of union, only
a third of the whole sample thought
the resulting political system would be
worse, and only 10 per cent thought the
Canadian living standard would be worse.
The others who had any discernible
opinion thought things would be the
same, or better.
On the less sensitive question of eco-
nomic union with the United States, an
amazing total of 65 per cent voted yes,
and 10 per cent didn’t know. The per-
centages ran still higher among: the
unemployed, 79 per cent; Quebec, 78
per cent; students, 78 per cent; the Mari-
time Provinces, 75 per cent. Even uni-
versity graduates and the retired favored
economic union by 62 per cent and
53 per cent.
’’Maclean’s” points out that there are
five distinct and progressive stages of
economic collaboration: a free-trade
area; a customs union; a common mar-
ket; an economic union; and, finally,
economic integration, which in practice
almost means political integration. Only
the first of these is now under discussion,
but it would be easy enough to enlarge
the discussion to all five and beyond, if
only some statesman with economic and
political imagination would come out of
the bushes. It is possible that an entirely
original solution will be found for what
is an entirely original situation.
In the past, as a mediator between
Britain and the United States, Canada
could not afford to accept an either/or
position. But today, Britain and the
United States are growing ever closer in
economic and political policy. Canada
could now join the United States with-
out leaving the community of the British
Commonwealth in any important sense.
One suggestion, that came from the
American columnist Drew Pearson (no
connection with Lester), is that Canada
should have non-voting seats in the US
Senate and House of Representatives,
and corresponding seats should be pro-
vided for the United States in the Cana-
dian Parliament. Another elementary
idea would be a Canadian aide to the
US President, and a US aide to the
Canadian Prime Minister. Such an
official could be the head of a depart-
ment, with cabinet rank.
Most of the elements of a Canadian-
United States commonwealth—common
currency, common defence, common
language (except for Quebec), common
market—are virtually in effect now. The
differences lie in foreign policy, postage,
tariffs, flag and the War of 1812. But
surely Americans can admit that
General Brock won the battles of Detroit
and Queenstown Heights in 1812.
Some Canadians may not prize the
concept of a Canadian nation, but many
Americans do. The general good sense
and amiability of its human and political
relations have long been the admiration
of a certain kind of American. At first
sight, it would be a great pity to lose
these qualities from the community of
nations, for they are not to be found
anywhere else in exactly the Canadian
combination of decency, virility and
magnanimity. Still, they might have
more influence as part of the whole
American society.
(From “The Nation”, New York.)


THE BRITISH IMAGE
John Bull, Refugee?
Floating across the world on a tide of aperitifs
By ANTHONY BROWN
The Ocean Liner Express stood at
platform ten, Waterloo Junction.
The 600-odd migrants aboard were
bound for Australia. They were helped
with their baggage to their compartments
by “New Englishmen”, Negro porters,
themselves migrants from the West
Indies. With no ceremony and
apparently—few regrets, the train left for
Southampton and the white ship to take
them to the Land of the Second Chance.
I have watched many other migratory
streams; those caused by war and revo-
lution —Hungarians hurrying through
bullrush forests across the Austro-
Hungarian frontier; the million Arabs
who fled Israel seeking sanctuary be-
neath the Mount of Temptation in Jor-
dan; Cubans flooding into the unforgiv-
ing Bronx. And those caused by econom-
ics, and the belief that the grass is always
greener on the other side of the hill-—the
West Africans on platform ten, Irishmen
arriving by the freighter-load in Boston,
Indians wandering Bloomsbury. And
those dispossessed by politics and reli-
gion the hordes of the turbaned
wandering after the division of Pakistan
and India, fleeing massacres which killed
two million. This is, after all, the cen-
tury of the refugee. And this is the year
of the refugee from Britain.
More Englishmen are migrating
almost all to Australia —or are on the
threshold of migration, than ever before
in the history of Great Britain. Over
71,000 assisted migrants are journeying
from England in jets and liners chartered
by the Australian Government. They
are mainly tough, hard, practical men
from the North. Another 51,000 are
paying their way to take up permanent
or extended residence in Australia. The
number awaiting passage is around
100,000 with, perhaps, another 200,000
on the brink of deciding to leave.
Between July and December 13,500 will
come by air. And the predictions for
the next decade show confidence that
this record 1964 figure of New Aus-
tralians will be sustained and exceeded
during the next ten years.
Relatively affluent
fpHE causes of this migration are, in
A some respects, inexplicable. For these
are not the great unwashed fleeing from
hunger, revolution, oppression or war.
These are not remittance men, last
chancers, lost hopers or jackeroos. They
are mainly highly skilled tradesmen with
practical wives. In many respects it
seemed this is a migration of the rela-
tively affluent, men and women with
more prosperity and security at home
than most, if they are measured by global
and even European standards.
I travelled with a batch of 1350
migrants from Southampton Docks to
Sydney. The nature of their affluence
was immediately apparent. They spent
£15,000 —according to the ship's purser
on electrical and luxury goods at
Aden. They seemed to float across the
world on a tide of aperitifs, soft drinks,
iced beers. They lived in fully-serviced
cabins, they were attended by respectful
Neapolitans, their meals were five-course
lunches and seven-course dinners. There
were schools, balls, cinemas, lectures on
the nature of Australia. They were at-
tended by three doctors and three welfare
officers. Most women dressed for din-
ner, and they walked on machine-
polished floors. The rusty, leaky bot-
toms of old freighters which carried the
Irish to their new destinies and the Hun-
garians away from their old, were off
the line. For £lO this is the cheapest,
most luxurious ride in the world. The
care taken by the Australian Government
to avoid cries of “cattle ship” was evi-
dent. This was civilised, almost sophis-
ticated transportation.
Yet all these Britons seemed to flee
is nothing more oppressive than a demo-
cratic State of full employment nourished
by a welfare service that provides safe
birth, cheap health, the security of a
dignified death. To come to Australia
they have sacrificed jobs, seniority,
accrued superannuation, homes which
may have taken them years to obtain,
and the natural security of a homeland
—for the insecurities, possible hardships
and uncertainties implicit in any migra-
tion. So why do they leave?
The motives of the adults were more
complex than the simple combine of
bitterness, frustration and ambition im-
plicit in the dialogues I had with their


Summer’s
coming!
Staff
going?
CALL
.
E]
n
:KI
'f
m
l&)7srS'A
TODAY
Improve staff relations with AIR CONDITIONING.
young. I talked with about 150 adults
during the five weeks at sea. I read
350 responses by breadwinners to an in-
vitation to write essays on why they were
leaving England and what they expected
from Australia. This, then, was the pic-
ture of the average migrant I formed
from this interviewing.
He is usually between 35 and 40, the
father of two children, a skilled trades-
man, with one in eight a professional
man. Three out of five were from the
North of England—for a curious reason
to be defined shortly—and he also
tended to be moderately Left-wing, a
suburbanite, and usually had served in
the armed forces with non-commissioned
rank. One in three owned his own
home, one in two lived in semi-detached
houses with three rooms, and he was
more likely to have a car (an Austin or
Morris or Herald), a refrigerator, wash-
ing machine and vacuum cleaner than
the average Briton. He tended to read
the “Daily Mirror” or the “Daily
Express” (papers for the ambitious upper
working class and, in the case of the
“Express”, for the lower middle class
man with a gleam in his eye), and be
addicted to TV. He tended to be more
outspoken on political and economic
affairs. He had left Britain after years
of opposition from his wife, hesitant to
leave her kinsfolk, and the general lure
was the vision, distilled from Australia
House indoctrination (some of it
patently glamorised and sometimes in-
accurate, particularly on housing where
generalisation is impossible), letters from
relatives and friends who had already
migrated, and information of indeter-
minate origin, of a country rich in
natural resources, underpopulated and
with a rapidly developing industry.
Poverty was rarely a factor in his
departure. I found only two men—and
this, I understand, is general—who had
drawn unemployment benefits in the year
before departure. He had earned be-
tween £l2 and £ls a week as a mean in
1962, although in some cases his wages
reached £2O to £22 a week.
Dead men’s shoes
TTis children tended to be more virulent
than he in such tendentious mat-
ters as Britain’s class structure, privilege,
weather and opportunities. I spoke to
a number of migrants’ children about
the reasons for their departure and their
expectations from Australia. Their com-
ments were bitter, redolent of hopeless-
ness, and reflected an unawareness of
the true, privileged status that youth
enjoys today in Britain. “I think Eng-
land has had it” . . . “Australia is a
growing country which I know will
some day be as great as Britain WAS”
... “I loathed the medieval attitude of
big business towards its staff” ... “I
could not save any money” ... “I want
security” . . . “The English are too cold
and unfriendly towards each other” . . .
“Australia is a young man’s country”
. . . “In Britain progress means filling
dead men’s shoes or being well in with
the boss” . . . “The English are too
snobbish” . . . “There is less of the Old
School Tie stuff in Australia”.
Usually the British migrant had not
thought of migrating elsewhere. Canada
was ruled out because of “winter un-
employment” and the “severe climate”.
New Zealand looms too remote in the
Englishman’s mind and many who do
select New Zealand in fact come eventu-
ally to Australia. Southern Rhodesia
and South Africa were considered too
hazardous with the racially plagued
futures, and America is rejected because
of an alien and, often, offensive culture
for the Englishman.
And he was often influenced by state-
ments in the “Empire” Press of Britain—•
notably the “Daily Express”, which is
usually notoriously ill-informed about the
actualities of the Commonwealth —that
real wages were higher for most work-
ers in Australia than in Britain. In fact,
he learns, when full account of British
social services is taken, the 28 per cent
difference in average earnings in Austra-
lia's favor would be substantially re-
duced for families with four or more
dependent children. To this had to be
added the costs of resettlement, replace-
ment costs of housing, furniture and
other durables, and loss of seniority in
employment.
The British migrant arrives in Aus-
tralia far from penniless, although there
have been cases of families having to
borrow the £lO “fare”. If he owned a
house he transfers a mean £9OO from
the sale of his effects and equities in
Britain. If he did not, then the average
transfer was around £3OO. But many
aboard the ship I was on appeared to
be transferring between £2OOO and
£3OOO, dependent upon their occupa-
tions and wages.
There appeared to be four main
groups of migrants: I—Personally
nominated families with relative-sponsors
in Australia to provide them with initial
housing and help them find housing.
2—Commonwealth-nominated migrants
who seemed vague about where they
were going to disembark. 3—Young
single persons who regard migration as
a working holiday and who generally
have no doubt about their ability to save
the return passage if after two years they
decide to return home. 4—Elderly
parents of children already being esta-
blished in Australia who are brought out
under the £lO scheme to preserve the
family group, although their usefulness
as product citizens may well have been
exhausted.
The crucial decision having been made
—and for young married couples it was
often the most important in their life-
time —the migrants appeared then to
start a process of justification for that
decision: to create their own, private,
favorable image of Australia and an un-
favorable image of the United Kingdom.
Throughout the voyage I heard this type
of complaint and attitude towards the
United Kingdom. Mr F. R. Jennings,
bound for Melbourne from Liverpool,
wrote to me: “The following is my
story, my hopes, my ambitions, and the
reasons for my escape from what was for
me and I am sure for many other Bri-
tishers, becoming an unhappy and frus-
trated life because of a badly-mauled
national pride. Because of my pro-
British feelings it has become impossible
for me and my family to remain in a
country whose so-called leaders allow us
to be reviled and spat at continuously by


m
*
M
m
- f ->
•V a
■>. >
HOW TO HAVE
A CELLAR
IN FIVE BOTTLES
No matter how elaborate the meal (seven, eight, nine, ten
courses) or how simple (the humdrum three), Orlando offers
you a complete cellar of wines in just five bottles.
HOW?
EASY! Serve Orlando Barossa Fino Sherry as an aperitif and,
if you wish, through the soup course.
NEXT, pour Orlando 1963 Barossa Riesling and serve chilled
with the fish and entree.
THEN, serve robust Orlando 1959 Barossa Cabernet with the
main course,
AND delightfully full-flavoured and fruity Orlando 1961
Barossa Spaetlese with the dessert.
FINISH a wonderful meal with smooth, mellow Orlando 1945
Vintage Port.
NOTE: For a short three-courser why not have the sherry,
the white OR red, and finish with the port.
Whether you serve one, all or a combination of these five, make'
sure the wine is Orlando. Orlando Barossa table wines fulfill
all the traditions of the finest in wine making . . . they are,
indeed, great wines because they are the result of dedication.
Orlando prestige table wines are vintaged and bottled by
G. Gramp and Sons Pty. Ltd., in South Australia’s famous
9903
Barossa Valley.
people whom we have helped and are
still helping to gain independence, and
others whom we have to call our Allies.
“This is a subject on which I have
strong feelings, and I look forward to
our becoming a good Australian family
group with an equally strong national
pride, and a hope that our new land and
leaders won’t ever make us feel so de-
graded as the old country has.”
The twin common factors impelling
the breadwinning migrants was the un-
certainty of Britain’s political and eco-
nomic future, and the desire to provide
their children with more hope and pro-
mise than Britain was able to provide
them in their lifetimes. The associated
factors including climate, the deep de-
sire of most Britons to live in the sun —
a factor which, no doubt, created the
British Empire in the first place—a
desire to escape the aura of apologia,
justification, secrecy with which Britain
and its politicians surround the epic
political and financial debacles suffered
in the past 20 . years. And the latent
desire of most Englishmen to live over-
seas —the have-not Englishman, that is.
boom started in January, 1963.
Suddenly nearly 34,000 men, women
and children filed applications. In Feb-
ruary there were 37,000 applicants. In
the corresponding months of 1962 only
5400 and 7000 applied. The 1963 in-
creases were remarkable and, since all
Britain was gripped by sub-zero weather
for weeks at this time, Australia House
tended at first to believe Britons were
being impelled because of the weather
factor. And then it began to emerge
that the weather was the last straw
rather than the principal spur.
By the end of 1963 other important
factors were at work. Debate was in-
tense on the “two nation” thesis that is
always in the background of British
national thought—the conflict, suspicion
which exists traditionally between the
Northerner and the Southerner. Tradi-
tional industries of the North —coal,
steel, shipbuilding, aircraft industries,
potteries, etc. —were running down. The
North East was declared a depressed
area. Yet, while the North stagnated,
the South boomed. And rather than
try to integrate in the South, the
Northerner, dour, tough, hagridden for
30 years by economic doubts, preferred
to make a 12,000-mile journey to Aus-
tralia than take a train 150 miles to the
Southland. Thus it is that the Nor-
therner dominates the boat lists.
That, then, is the nature of this migra-
tion to a land which, in the British mind,
remains free from the worries and un-
certainties of the Old Country as Great
Britain makes the voyage itself from a
mighty nation to a tiny island with an
uncertain status in the affairs of the
world.


m
it
10s
JrfoksewZ*4
.iQW
■soflAoW
m
u
; V
a*
■
■
-: :*:* •
m
i
-•••vv:
P
mf
m
m
; r :
i
m
M
-
m
■
i
/9
■
il
«
H3f
{MFDUNO
4
*>
I
» >
1
! £ .£ £<
ah.
la*..
£ Q4IUJ4<£&U
hi* fJvm&A
m
r Zm^ iKS M m
'/‘j&u. ‘TXutiG’ t- 4 <?■ oAfU&do
187 private citizens supervise the Mobil Economy Run
On 20th October next this small army of inde-
pendent observers and officials will start a 4-day
tigil to ensure that you get a true report of what
your make of car can do on a really modern petrol.
These are impartial private citizens chosen at random
from many different fields. Under the Run Director
(who is appointed with the approval of the Con-
federation of Australian Motor Sport and is answer-
able only to it), they enforce the regulations of the
Run’s 40-page rule book. They see that drivers obey
traffic laws, drive safely, stick to the route and that
no one tampers with officially sealed parts of their
cars. As well as these 187 officials, many independent
news reporters, television and radio commentators,
and motoring editors accompany the Run cars.
Mobil
Mt R440J.70
Mobil Super economy comes from TETRAMEL
developed from Economy Run experience.
Eight Australian Economy Runs and many more overseas
have given Mobil a big lead in petrol economy knowledge.
It led to the discovery that cylinders farthest from the
carburettor are power-starved by ordinary petrols, and
serious waste occurs. So Mobil developed TETRAMEL,
the additive that distributes power evenly to all cylinders.
Tetramel in Mobil Super saves you money every mile.
9th Mobil Economy Run Route —1,382 miles
(0ct.20-0ct.23,1964). Starts Wollongong. Via Goulburn, Canberra,
Cooma, Wodonga, Bright, Albury, Wagga, Lockhart and Hay
to Mildura. Route provides all types of conditions, including
city streets, to ensure a realistic test of cars, drivers and fuel.
Cars are checked to see they are strictly
*standard \ Vital parts are sealed t must
remain sealed until after the Run,
Official observers ride in all Economy Run cars.
They police the rules and drivers know even
the slightest infringement can bring penalties .
At every fuelling officials measure every drop
of petrol , record it and seal the tanks. Only
officials are permitted to remove the seals ,
Economy motoring begins with Mobil


Letters to the Editor
Come, Come, Mr Killen
SIR. —Mr D. J. Killen has a passion and
a flair for over-dramatisation. I have
neither “threatened” him nor (even if I
so desired) am I in a position to offer
him “favors” (The Bulletin, 10/10/64).
The “luncheon” to which he refers took
place after I had been persuaded by
some of Mr Killen’s colleagues that he
was uninformed about the racist antics of
his friend Eric Butler, and that a docu-
mented presentation of the facts would
make him aware of the moral and politi-
cal implications of patronising a hate
pedlar.
On August 30, 1960, during a visit
to Canberra, mutual friends arranged for
us to meet. There was nothing furtive
or “conspiratorial” about the luncheon. It
took place in full view of MPs from both
sides of the House.
Mr Killen’s “anger” at my comments
may have dulled his memory because his
recollections of our luncheon do not
correspond with my written record of
these discussions. Mr W. C. Wentworth
(who, I should emphasise, has never had
any association with Butler) was pres-
ent and would be able to confirm the
veracity of the following summary.
After examining samples of the racist
and anti-Semitic literature utilised by
Butler's group, Mr Killen immediately
expressed his astonishment and disgust.
In fact, he offered to make an open
statement on the spot, condemning
racism and anti-Semitism. I expressed
the view that “this w'ould not be of much
help” unless accompanied by a specific
condemnation of the racist activities of
the group with whom his name had been
so closely linked.
Mr Killen conceded the logic of this,
but feared “he W'ould look a fool” if
he suddenly “announced the discovery
of what now appeared so obvious”. He
confided to me that he had “many
enemies in the House who would take
political advantage of this to his detri-
ment”.
When we parted, Mr Killen had not
made a definite decision but promised
to communicate with me a few days later.
The following day (August 31) I wrote
to Mr Killen thanking him for his hospit-
ality and conveying “kind regards” to
himself and Mr Wentworth.
Two months later, on October 31, I
received a lengthy manifesto from Mr
Killen outlining his opposition to racism,
anti-Semitism and Communism but omit-
ting any reference to the League of
Rights. He also concluded his letter on a
“kind personal regards” note.
I believed then, that Mr Killen’s deci-
sion not to make a public break with
Butler was determined by reasons of poli-
tical expediency referred to during the
“luncheon”. I therefore accepted at face
value his oral expressions of horror and
disgust at Mr Butler’s racist activities and
assumed that an indiscreet association
based on ignorance had been terminated.
I was, of course, quite wrong. The
“flirtation” between the Parliamentarian
and Australia’s leading racist grew into a
“love affair”. It reached its climax in
the touching joint Killen-Butler "Mission
to Britain” financed by the League of
Rights as a last ditch stand to save
Britain from oblivion; it expressed itself
in the Butlerite “New Times's” increasing
tendency to shower paeans of praise on
Mr Killen (three quarters of the last
issue was devoted to defending Mr Kil-
len from “smears” and extolling his
virtues); above all it was highlighted by
Mr Killen’s presence as the star per-
former (as recently as last month) at
annual “League of Rights” Dinners and
Seminars.
No undergraduate style of rhetoric can
blur over the reality that, as a Parliamen-
tarian, Mr Killen’s patronage of the
League of Rights is contributing respecta-
bility to Australia’s leading racist outfit.
No amount of prattle about “human
spirit” and “great estates of freedom”
can detract from the fact that Mr Killen
is providing Mr Khrushchev's representa-
tives in Australia with superb propaganda
ammunition for use against genuine anti-
C'ommunists who would no more associ-
ate (directly or indirectly) with racists
than with any other totalitarian group.
How would Mr Killen regard a parlia-
mentary colleague continually associating
himself with the Communist Party; regu-
larly quoted glowingly in the Communist
Press; giving lectures to Communist cells
on “neutral subjects”; accepting invita-
tions from Communist groups to appear
as a special guest on ceremonial occa-
sions; and travelling abroad on finances
provided by the Communist Party?
Would Mr Killen accept as a valid
justification for such activities the lament-
ably weak excuse that neutral rather than
Communist lectures were being given?
Or that “assurances” had been received
that the Communist Party was not “seek-
ing to place him under any obligation or
liability”?
Come, come, Mr Killen. One can grant
a person the benefit of the doubt for
four years and supply him with informa-
tion and documentation clearly demon-
strating that his name and political posi-
tion are being utilised for pernicious
goals. But when, despite this, he still
persists in his misguided activities, he
should not resort to evasions and histrion-
ics when subjected to public criticism.
I would be delighted to reciprocate
Mr Killen’s luncheon. But when I have
this pleasure, I hope he will have ab-
sorbed the implications arising from his
present “unity ticket” and done the right
thing.
Isi Leibler
Melbourne (Vic.).
SIR.—Mr Isi Leibler states (26/9/64)
that I am “generally regarded as Austra-
lia’s No. 1 Jew-baiter . . . ”. Without
quibbling about what “generally re-
garded” means, I feel that the only logi-
cal inference from this statement is that
I spend, if not all my time, at least a
significant proportion of my time, attack-
ing Jews. The truth is that I spend the
greater part of my time lecturing to a
wide variety of audiences, and conducting
anti-Communism seminars. In recent
years I have averaged over 100 lectures a
year to service organisations, church
groups and similar bodies. Surely it is
significant that none of these organisa-
tions, some of whom have Jewish mem-
bers, has found any evidence to sup-
port Mr Leibler's allegation that I am a
“lew-baiter”. 1 now challenge Mr Leibler
tc provide some evidence to support his
serious allegation.
ERIC D. BUTLER
National Director,
Australian League of Rights.
Melbourne (Vic.).
Captain R. J. Robertson
SIR.—Mr Hugh Curnow (26/9/64) sug-
gests that the Commonwealth Naval
Board was unjust in not immediately
reappointing Captain R. J. Robertson,
DSC, RAN, to command HMAS Mel-
bourne.
It is possible that the Naval Board
considered the efficiency of HMAS Mel-
bourne in conjunction with the feelings
of Captain Robertson. Shortly before
the Voyager disaster Melbourne had
virtually re-commissioned after refit, with
the concomitant change round of officers
and ship's company. Captain Robert-
son’s successor commanded Melbourne
in the annual SEATO exercises and pre-
sumably has guided the formation of an
efficient ship which started its current
service with the devastating collision.
Irrespective of personalities, the relief
of the present Captain of Melbourne
now could not be in the interests of the
efficiency of the ship.
RALPH LOWE
Captain, RAN (Retired).
Sea ford (Vic.).
(Hugh Curnow reported that the Naval
Board did not reinstate Captain Robert-
son in command of the Melbourne; but
he did not suggest this was just or
unjust. — Ed.)
Geelong Grammar
SIR.—In Batman’s reminiscences of his
days at the “Eton of Australia” (26/9/64)
he mentions the staff as being a reason
for his father’s choice, Dr Darling, the
then headmaster, “leaning towards those
with degrees from the better English
universities rather than some of those
with a solid grounding in local educa-
tion”. Something must have happened
since, for in the School Magazine of
May 1964. out of 45 members of staff
listed for the main school at Corio, 17
have no degree from any university and
six “key” appointments are held by non-
graduates, namely, the Director of
Studies, Assistant to the Headmaster,
Master of the Middle School and three


fci
Sft
flr
MENZIES HOTEL, MELBOURNE
Phone 60-1581
MENZIES MOTOR HOTEL, SYDNEY
Phone 2-0232
m
HOTEL FEDERAL, MELBOURNE
Phone 62-3721
an a
LENNONS HOTEL, BRISBANE
Phone 32-0131
B
LENNONS, GOLD COAST
Phone 9-2001
ft s
.
SAVOY PLAZA, MELBOURNE
Phone 62-4141
rs
$3
m
o
m
£3
33
S 3
HAMPTON COURT, SYDNEY
Phone 31-7081
Your
HOTEL
RESERVATION
secured instantly through our
FRII TELEPRINTER
SERVICE
RING YOUR NEAREST FEDERAL HOTEL
and remember . . .
“the customer is always right” at
FEDERAL HOTELS
across the nation
AUSTRALIA’S LEADING HOTEL GROUP
WREST POINT RIVIERA HOTEL, HOBART
Phone 5-1021
/
LENNONS, TOOWOOMBA
Phone 2-2433
n-q-QK
HOTEL AUSTRALIA, ADELAIDE
In association with Federal Hotels
Phone 6-8581
5819 R
housemasterships. At its opposite number
in Melbourne, all such posts are held by
duly qualified university men, and doubt-
less the same applies at certain other
schools.
This might surprise the education-
investing public or those who still
believe in Geelong Grammar superiority
over all other independent and State
schools.
H. Scott
Melbourne (Vic.).
SIR. —Having read “Bacterial Life In A
Stiff Collar” I would like to say that
now a quarter-century later, existence
here at “sunny” Corio is almost exactly
as experienced by Batman. A recent
change, however, is that now no milk is
served in the Dining Hall other than
at breakfast, despite the fact that the fees
are now about £700 a year. It is now
sixty-two years since Geelong Grammar
won a football premiership, and bullying
has almost completely disappeared, to be
replaced by an almost complete lack
of subordination amongst seniors and
juniors alike ... It is also interesting to
note that the masters have now at last
developed their own form of hardened
cynicism in order to stir the “mob of
poofters” from their insular lethargy.
CHRISTOPHER R. BAXTER
Editor of Geelong Grammar School
magazine, “Tempo”.
Corio (Vic.).
Max Harris
SIR. —Time, too, for a long cool look
at The Bulletin and its general atti-
tude towards facts.
I am not a member of the editorial
board of Penguin books, nor of any other
publishing organisation.
MAX HARRIS
Kensington Park (SA).
(Penguins, Sydney, informed The
Bulletin that Mr Harris is a member
of the editorial board of their company.
—Ed.)
Church Property
SlR.—“Loyalty to other people and
humility forms the basis of true Christian
living” is what Archdeacon Begbie said
in St Andrew’s Cathedral. Can he tell
us how to line this up with the free land
site rents which his church poaches from
the land users in Sydney and Australia?
The 28.6 acres at EdgeclifT had an un-
improved value of £850,000 in 1961
and now would be well over £lm. And
when the public pay for the Eastern
Suburbs Railway it may jump to £2m.,
an unholy free issue to the Church of
England . . . The fact that appals is
that they have absolutely no moral claim
to this land value which is the result of
the publicly produced land site rent —
the inalienable property of all . . . Land
holders perpetually remain the tenants
of the community but they have rung the
changes and the community is now the
tenant of these landholders.
It is all spurious in common law and
remains our next great reform.
B. PERRY
Sydney (NSW).


Wmrni,
■ ' ■
Wi
m 2
.
[.: • ~ '
*1181!
WWttKi
Ww^mm
Iw*
Wjfam
shMI
HE
Smi
&&.W Jar
* v .
gfiiitf
V;•:
Wfti
.
...
.
■
i
jy
i
1
::
Key to keyboard speed
Diminutive in size yet amazingly efficient . . . the new
Burroughs 84 character box-printer. Its many advantages
include more characters in less space, elimination of type
piling and easy change to a different size.
Another feature of Burroughs alphanumeric accounting
machines is turn-of-a-knob programme selection. Each
Burroughs F 1000 Series Machines handle all accounts
posting jobs with the advantages of typewritten
description, speed, accuracy and simplicity of operation.
Programme Control Centre “Sensing Panel” corv*
tains the posting sequence for four or more separate
operations. You simply turn the knob to change the job!
Punched tape or punched cards can automatically
capture all basic information for subsequent data analysis
and management reports.
Burroughs is the machine to grow with...
&UIBIA
For details of a tailored-to-measurt
accounting procedure ...
Call your Burroughs man at the
nearest Branch Office or write to
Burroughs Ltd., 40 Miller Street,
North Sydney, N.S.W. Phone 92-0851,
All Burroughs machines can be
easily converted to Decimal currencu


If Money is No Object...
Measure your garage first
From
HAROLD DVORETSKY
in London
Up to five years before they dropped
the A-bomb anyone with the money
available had a ready choice of
grand, expensive and luxurious motor
cars from which to take his pick. They
could choose from a lush list revelling in
romantic names like Maybach and Horch,
Voisin, Hispano-Suiza, Isotta-Fraschini,
Minerva and Excelsior; and, of course,
the legendary and fabulous French
Bugatti Royale, of which only a handful
were built. The “Golden Bug” boasted
an eight-cylinder engine of 12.7 litres
that's almost five times the engine capa-
city of the Holden you may be putting
away in the garage tonight; nearly 12
times the engine size of VWs übiquitous
beetle, and near enough to 15 times the
size of those little Mini 850 s.
In between the wars the Americans
came into what Is now known as the
prestige car field. They produced cars of
Texan - like grandeur Pierce - Arrow,
Packard, Cord, Auburn, Franklin and
Duesenberg.
Today the expensive, prestige car mar-
ket has shrunk. Even those with the
money, an expense account or a firm to
write down on find it somewhat difficult
to discover a mode of transport few
people have and most covet. For Ameri-
cans, possibly the biggest buyers of lush
cars, the problem of staying patriotic and
buying a real piece of luxury in the grand
manner is difficult indeed. These days
the United States produce only a type of
mass-produced continuation of the fa-
mous name of Lincoln (by Ford). GM
sells the Cadillac.
T>ack across the Atlantic, Germany has
again found a successor to its mass-
ive, teutonic, 7.7 litre Grosser Mercedes
of pre-war. They have now introduced
the Grosser 600—an exceptional car full
of push buttons, plush and near-perfec-
tion. The overall length of this mighty
vehicle is 20 feet six inches. The 6.3 litre
V 8 engine that powers it produces 300
horsepower.
In Italy, where Farina and the best of
the modern car body designers work,
Enzo Ferrari produces Le-Mans-winning
sports and racing cars and then gets
Farina to design luxurious and sleek
bodies for splendid Grand Touring cars.
In Italy, too, Alfa-Romeo, a name as
famous as the old-time Bugatti, is still
produced in a luxury and expensive ver-
sion as well as in somewhat cheaper
models for the proletariat. Paradoxically,
these cars are produced by a State-
backed factory in Milan.
In 1962, in Milan, well-known Aus-
tralian industrialist Harold Lightburn
signed an agreement with Dr A. R.
Luraghi, president of the Alfa-Romeo
company, to sell and eventually manu-
facture his vehicles in Australia.
[During the past few weeks three Alfa-
Romeo models have been launched in
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. These
are the 2600 Sprint (£4258 incl. tax),
the 1600 Sprint GT (£2723 incl. tax)
and the TI sedan (£2030 incl. tax).]
In 1950, before withdrawing from
motor racing to concentrate on large-
scale production, Alfa-Romeo achieved
the unparalleled feat of winning 11
Grand Prix in succession.
Maserati, once a mighty name in
motor racing and luxury cars, have now
produced, for the first time, a four-door
saloon. Until now their luxury models
were real grand tourers, never with more
than two doors.
Two more Italian luxury makes are
the Iso-Rivolta (powered by an Ameri-
can GM Corvette engine) and the Lam-
borghini. Right now the latter, intro-
duced at the end of last year by the
Italian tractor firm, is probably the rarest
of the rare ones. Shown for the first
time at the Turin Show, it has a beau-
tifully engineered 3i-litre VI2 motor
with twin overhead camshafts on each
bank, and produces 360 bhp. As yet,
apart from the one on the stand at Turin,
no one seems to have seen the two-plus-
one (that’s a two seater with room for
one behind) bodied car on the road—
let alone bought one. But at a reason-
ably low price (under £3ooostg) it must
have found plenty of would-be buyers.
In France, Facel produce the Facel
Vega with an engine from America
to power it. The engine, a 6.3-litre
Chrysler VB, produces a massive 390
bhp, enough to send the four-seater along
at 150 mph.
But it is left to Britain to produce
more real prestige car machinery than any
other nation. Her specialist body build-
ers, conservative though they may be,
still have the edge on the luxury and
limousine car body market. Above all,
even when money is nearly no object,
the British seem to give the best value.
Still leading the British field and the
world both in demand and in exceptional
quality, is the Rolls-Royce and Bentley
group. The basic power unit of Rolls and
Bentley cars is the same a smooth,
quiet-running, all-aluminium VB. The
power potential of this big 6.2-litre motor
is, according to the stories built up
around Rolls, “sufficient”.
Sufficiency in this case means around
265 bhp—though Rolls will never dis-
cuss the given horsepower of their cars,
even with a customer. The fact remains
that the Rolls motor is extremely effi-
cient, exceptionally smooth and remark-
ably reliable. All Rolls-Royce cars, in-
cluding the basic Phantom V, which
weighs more than two tons, are capable
of 100 mph and more in impeccable
silence and safety.
The range starts with the S 3 and
includes long-wheel-base models, two-
door saloons, convertible bodies and
four-door limousines, with bodies by
such famous carriage makers as James
Young, H. J. Mulliner and Park Ward.
Rolls even cater for the sporting man
with money; they produce the Conti-
nental Bentley—a two-door four-seater
whose sleek yet stately looks belie its
potential. It really does handle like a
sports car —and a darn sight better than
a lot of them. It will travel along in
the usual uncanny Rolls-Royce silence at
speeds above 120 mph. For a firm
that individually builds each car, Rolls-
Royce-Bentley produce a wonderful
variety of luxurious models.
Around the £2ooostg. and above mark
there are about 20 different makes of
luxury cars available to the buyer in
Europe. Ten of the leading and costliest
are British. Two of these have Ameri-
can power units and some use American
automatic transmissions or have auto-
matic transmissions based on American
designs. The Jensen C-V8 uses a 5.9-
litre Chrysler V 8 (output 300 bhp) and


I
iK..
... -•■
~
■
»-
I®
s >.
!$J
Hi
m
SM
V-
nilNtfMM
WHICH CAR
MAKES NEW
MEAN WHAT
IT MEANS?
The only new thing about some cars is
the name. Not this one. BMC Morris
1100 is all new—from bonnet to boot!
It’s the car you hoped would happen.
It breaks through with revolutionary
engineering. Take, for example, the
Hydrolastic* suspension. It floats the
car on fluid so it can’t bounce or roll
or pitch. And it never needs mainten-
ance. Take the special sealed cooling
system. Take the sound-dampening
rubber-mounted sub-frames. Take all
that stretch-out inside space. Why not
take the BMC Morris 1100? and
ride in the cushioned comfort of scon-
toured seating. Listen to approving
comments from friends at the sweet,
low styling; from mechanics at the
front-wheel drive system that pack:
engine, clutch and gearbox into one
amazing unit. The BMC Morris 1100
looks like the future and acts
like it. It’s the car that puts the
family first. Now’s the time to try the
Miraculous BMC Morris 1100 the
car you hoped would happen.
*Registered trade mark
ATRUUNE^
FAMILY CAR
BM C MANUFACTURERS IN AUSTRALIA OF BMC FREEWAY
SIX, BMC WOLSELEY 24/80, BMC MORRIS 1100, BMC
MORRIS 850, BMC AUSTIN HEALEY SPRITE AND BMC MGB.
THE BMC ROSETTE BACKS THE SERVICE OF THESE CARS
FOR A LIFETIME.


; !
>•
•-#%-
SF
HI
<-**X*_ a
»► ~
s«
' <*
■ • i * %
>*#!
y ■ ;,
M
,
*#»'■#
S '
‘ *m* C-' # Tjk £<*??
•"S «‘
*■*»*.
FERRARI 250 Grand Touring Berlineta. This 150 m.p.h. model costs about
£4OOO sterling in Italy. The body is designed by Pinin Farina and built in
Modena by Scaglietti, one of the country's most famous coachmakers.
Wl
— Mmmm-
GROSSE MERCEDES 600 (Pullman version) has an overall length of 20 feet six inches. It has
a 6.3 litre V 8 engine which produces 300 horsepower. The car is the successor to the massive
pre-war 7.7 litre Grosse Mercedes.


A BULLETIN PORTFOLIO
LUXURY CARS
‘-r
- -
4
mm
iSllfe?
V
' »
\ 'C.-
cAH
-*■ *
mm.
■■■
tessssas^.
-h*******
-
m
wr-K
V.M
r.%
wm
■*»'s* MXlm,
#;l>:
L i
lagm; r. «. . ,
■prT' , • . ',. '-a ■ r ~-i f-|
>'V*v .-*v. v
'
~'■■* •- „ *-<i ’ '-fin-' v "
■■■■'- *•* s;
&
-S
...
' - ’■ *
LAMBORGHINI 350 GT has a VI2, litre, 360 b.h.p. engine. It first
appeared on the market at the end of last year, sells for under £3OOO stg.


Sf
W
I
fiiiaiaiiil
■■niviii
■aaaaaaaaa
■bbmbhhmbi
sSss9liaa&
aißiHaiaif
MlSiSsiigi
BP
■Baaaaaaafll
SSSilliiii
laiißiiuiim
SSSBBmam
!!»!!■■■ ■■■■!
■■■■■
bibbbbbb
18181881
flßflßflßßWßMii
IBW-S
V
FACEL VEGA French luxury with a 6.3 litre, 39 0 b.h.p Chrysler V 8 engine.
fcv<
Mi
\ Am.
V
.
BHB
■P
mfs
•C’M
w
1 M
IK f
i
JENSEN: A British car with a Chrysler VB, 6 litre, 300 b.h.p. engine which gives a top speed of 140 m.p.h.
plus. An exceptionally good - handling and powerful occasional four - seater with a body of fibre glass.
Considering its finish and performance, it is reasonably priced at £2BBB stg.


I
m
m
in
H
V.
H
IM:
H
■
:
l
I
■sill
it
J
■
h
\
i
■•:
1
m
A
i
....
«■■■«&>*. I —MB
■
Pacifica?
TEAL will
introduce you
Your travel agent knows
all about holiday or
jusiness trip-planning by
TEAL flights throughoui
the South Pacific,
Have a word
with him soon.
I
BWZEALAND’S International Airline
association with QANTAS and BOA
4


Mr*
1
css
<E=:
ASTON MARTIN DBS: It won fame in motor racing before the war, and has since
re-established its name under the patronage of millionaire David Brown. It has a six
cylinder, 3.8 litre, 282 b.h.p. engine and costs £3775 stg ex factory.
m
'•4,
-Vo
m
A
m
m
59*
:>•»
Hi
SR
-
mm
■
J
a
vt
“?*•*
Hi
ROLLS-ROYCE Silver Cloud III: One version of a famous car—a drophead coupe
with coachwork by H. J. Mulliner/Park Ward. This model is most popular in the USA.


n
3sr wT
i
i
i
a
«
j
fH
I«'SSSS
i
ft
m
? r~
m
mm
if?
4..
mm
I
m
K
K>’i
3**?
»
'V
mm
w
«r
1
£Sks,£
&
' l
fiH
x
,P
SSs
— -
i
-
nr —Tia,~
-
■ ■
mm.
•'■X'-f
■
mm' - ■. .&i
? : [
HHHHH
BENTLEY CONTINENTAL two-door saloon with coachwork by Mulliner and Park Ward perhaps the last
word in luxury, silent speed and comfort. Direct from the factory it costs £6505 sterling.
vm-r ■ !
-
mam
.'-%'S/- ■& r**
m


%
\
>5
i
m
m
%
mm
mmM§,
tmpi
■ ■
Wffi
r:
mi-
KuSp
miff
•■+< r
■
» J
f.
mm
.
■***ss j
:
s.£ - -
SSPi
€ v'^:
mh
m* t
i?
>//;
BM: Q N!
ihUi ■
:.7.j
i
WHICH SOCK’S FOR FUN . . . WHICH IS FORMAL?
Formal on the left —casual on the right—or is it the other way round? Doesn’t matter actually . . . because
Holeproof Hi-Bulk Zealons look right whatever the occasion. 20 clear colours, keyed to tone with everything
that's new in men's wear ... in soft, cool nylon with a ‘hand loomed finish’. One size stretches to fit everybody
Next time you re looking for goodlooking socks . . . look for Holeproof Hi-Bulk Zealons. 12/6 everywhere
HOLEPROOF Hi-bulk zealons
f
HOLEPROOF
HI-BULK
ZEALONS
STRETCH
TO
FIT


Tired of the
Executive
Rat-Race?
WELL, GET OUT OE IT!
The longer you ‘sit’ on a job the
harder it looks. Any good executive
knows that. Yet decisions are put
off by the thousand every day.
‘Difficult’ jobs go into the ‘too
hard’ basket.
This procrastination is like a disease
in business. It’s the by-product of
the Executive Life. The pressure
goes on the strain gets tougher
the mind often flags. Result?
Work looks harder so takes more
out of you. So the mind flags more.
The rat-race is on.
A mind under pressure needs good
care. The executive life tension,
worry, hurried unbalanced meals,
alcohol often leads to a deficiency
of essential B Group vitamins.
These are the vitamins —BI in
particular which have a signifi-
cant effect in conserving nervous
energy. Additional B 1 is often pres-
cribed during periods of physical
stress and excessive mental activity.
You may not get adequate Vitamin
B from your meals. The drinks you
have to relax you, increase your
needs still further.
It’s comparatively easy to stop the
rat-race and get off. But you must
make a decision. You must put
yourself on to ‘TAB-VITA’ B
GROUP FORT tablets. This is a
potent source of B group vitamins
enriched with Vitamin C. It is not
a miracle ‘cure’ but if taken regularly
may do a lot to help restore your
initiative and drive. Get out of that
rat-race. Tear out this advertisement
and go to your chemist. Or send
your secretary to get a bottle.
‘TAB-VITA’ B GROUP FORT
tablets A Nicholas Product.
Tear out the ad now don’t put
it in the ‘too hard’ basket, please.
PDI2/9705
the AC-Cobra 4.7-litre Ford V 8 deve-
loping 260 bhp.
Some makes are still quoted in car
magazine price lists, but it is doubtful,
if an order were placed, whether the
car could be built and delivered.
The famous old Bristol, for instance,
is one still quoted, but the car division
of the famous aircraft firm did a grace-
ful fade-out when the company became
an aircraft engine supplier only. Nice
touch, though, is that they still have a
car maintenance division for the Bristol
cars still running.
Speed ranges of the top 20 are from
100 mph to 175 mph. Most, for the
early part of their lifetime at least,
seldom go above three figures except
occasionally on motorway, autostrada,
freeway or autobahn.
The cheapest of these cars is the
Jaguar Mark X. It sells, basic in
Europe, for under £2ooostg. Despite a
few shortcomings (its manual gearbox
has always been a bit tricky), there’s
little to touch all Jaguars in value for
money. And for those to whom a
Jaguar is what they think they’ll have if
they can just make the grade, money-
wise, there’s rumor at long last of a new
gearbox. It was, 1 1 understand, ready
for last year’s Earls Court, but Sir Wil-
liam Lyons decided to withhold it until
he was absolutely certain it was com-
pletely reliable.
j¥> ut then, if money is no object, you
* may care for something more expen-
sive, offering perhaps just a little bit more
in the specialist line of press-button
motoring. For your money you’ll get,
generally, superb coachwork (doors that
shut at a touch with a refined click, or is
it clunk?), mostly leather upholstery that
is lush to touch and sit in, and deep
pile carpets. There is always a heater
and sometimes (maybe at extra cost)
air-conditioning. Press-button electric
windows, controlled suspension for fast
country or slow city driving, automatic
transmission and powered steering are
included. Built-in telephones, cocktail
cabinets—and if you really want to go
the whole hog, a few thousand extra will
almost certainly allow for gold plating
(remember Lady Nora Docker of
Daimler fame of the ’sos?).
Here, then, is my basic list for the
tops in European luxury motoring. The
prices are for stock lines and may vary
by the odd hundred pounds. Generally
they are quoted ex-factory; delivery
charts are extra. In Australia you will
have to add 25 per cent exchange, then
pile on import duty and sales tax. Oh,
yes; there’s a waiting list for practically
every model. A point worth noting:
the tendency is, the dearer the car the
longer it is. So measure up your garage
before contemplating purchase.
The chart below gives the prices of
MAKE ENGINE BHP PRICE (stg)
Jaguar Mk X (GE) 6-cyl. 3.8 litre 265 1785
AC Cobra (GB/USA) Chrysler V 8 4.7 litre 260 2000
Fiat 2300 S ('ltaly,) 6-cyl. 2.3 litre 150 2100
Gordon Keeble (GB/USA) Corvette V 8 5.3 litre 300 2315
Alfa-Romeo (Italy,) 4 and 6-cyl., li and 2.6 litre 104 and 165 2-3000
Alvis (GB) 6-cyl. 4 litre 120 2544
Lancia-Farina (Italy) V 6 2.7 litre 145 2500
Jensen C-V8 (GB/USA) Chrysler V 8 6 litre 300 2888
Daimler (GB) V 8 4J- litre 220 2809
Lamborghini (Italy) VI2 3i litre 360 2805
Iso-Rivolta (Italy/USA) V 8 5.3 litre Corvette 340 abt 3000
Aston Martin (GB) 6-cyl. 3.8 litre 282 3517 to 3775
Lagonda (GB) 6-cyl. 4 litre 240 3800
Facel Vega (France/USA) Chrysler V 8 6.3 litre 390 4050—4500
Maserati 5000 (Italy) V 8 4.9 litre 325 4000
Mercedes Grosser 600 (Germany) V 8 6.3 litre 300 3000
Ferrari (Italy) Vl2 4 litre abt. 280 5040—7000
Rolls-Royce, Bentley (GB) V 8 6.2 litre abt. 265 4455—7685 plus
mainly stock cars and does not take into
account the odd special nearly every
luxury maker produces, either for a cus-
tomer or on speculation.
Most cars in this list are handbuilt
and engines can be changed at any
time (as can the price). Only one model
of Jaguar, Mercedes and Ferrari is
quoted, but others are available. We
have deleted Bristol and some other
makes, because, although quoted in car
magazine price lists, new models are no
longer available.


Peck's
Telescope
A Short Story by Hugh Atkinson
Within a month of his 45th birth-
day, Peck has been divorced for
the third time and had retired to
lick his wounds. Figuratively speaking,
he had no wounds to lick. Margaret’s
adulteries had proved so flagrant that
Peck’s grievance was hopelessly dis-
tributed and after the first crushing
realisation that he had been a celebrated
cuckold, he had felt neither jealousy nor
pain and had dismissed her from the
house and the memory of his flesh as
though she had never existed. “What
would you expect?” Margaret had asked
scornfully. “He never loved me or any of
his wives. There is no room in his ego.”
Peck’s other two wives had been as
summarily forgotten. The first because
she irritated him by the trivia of her
interests. The second, he said, because
the marriage had been perfect and he
found himself without a reason to get
up any more in the mornings. Lacking
inner-direction and bored by the success
of his business, Peck required conflict
to provide an illusion of reality.
Margaret had been contentedly mar-
ried to a weak and dependent man when
Peck met her at a suburban film even-
ing. His settled condition represented
a challenge which straightway absorbed
him and when he discovered that he
no longer wished for a button to press
which would disintegrate him on waking,
Peck imagined himself in love and pro-
ceeded to wreck Margaret’s marriage
with the kinetic energy and polemic
skill which had made him famous in
business.
The turnabout in the pattern by which
he had moved through his previous mar-
riages greatly upset Peck’s partners in
the city, who were accustomed to
regarding him with awe.
Being decent, grey conservatives them-
selves, they had delighted in Peck’s
eccentricities, of which they counted
his multiple marriages as being one.
That life could play Peck a dirty trick,
instead of the other way round, caused
them alarm and confusion. Their sug-
gestion that he should take a good long
holiday was compounded out of affec-
tion and their own unadmitted em-
barrassment at the sight of their idol’s
clay feet. Peck had not had a holiday,
other than his honeymoons, in the 27
years he had been working. The furious
hobbies in which he indulged: rare
manuscripts, vintage cars, exotic orchids,
meteorology, Siamese cats, finger paint-
ing, photography, tea blending, tropical
fish, hypnotism and clock repairs, had
absorbed all his time and interests.
Ordinarily, the idea of a good long holi-
day would have given Peck the horrors
but the consideration exhibited by his
partners, although unobtrusive and
subtle, had begun to get on his nerves.
At least it will be a change from their
silly faces, he thought, and wondered
what one did on good long holidays.
He considered a visit to New Guinea,
the Barrier Reef, one of the tropical
islands off Queensland, trout fishing in
the Snowy River, Alice Springs, a hunt-
ing camp in the Northern Territory, a
cruise ship to Japan, or a solitary ex-
cursion into the country by motor
caravan. At the end of a fortnight’s
collecting folders, making enquiries in
Tourist Bureaux, doing supplementary
reading of reference in the Public
Library and holding discussions in the
Board Room, Peck was an encyclo-
paedia of onshore and offshore holidays
and had thoroughly exhausted any in-
terest he might have had in taking one.
He became excessively moody and not
a little irritable. At home he sacked
the housekeeper for something to do
and prepared his own meals, sinking
into the silence of the house and
moving about abstractedly through the
litter of kitchen and bedroom, aim-
lessly fingering the paraphernalia of his
discarded hobbies. The wish to press
a button which would instantly and
painlessly disintegrate him, returned to
haunt his wakings. There seemed no
point in anything and Peck’s appear-
ances in his office grew casual while he
lay in bed for days recalling the
memories of his life.
“I don t like it,” one of the partners
said, “He's in for a nervous break-
down.”
“He’s drinking a lot,” another said.
“He never did that before.”
A third said, “He needs a change.
We’ve got to get him out of that house.”
“How about Rubinstein’s place,” the
other asked, referring to a client. “A
local change would be better than
nothing. Rubinstein’s going abroad for
three months.”
“It has a swimming pool and a yacht.”
“It’s in one of the best situations on
the coast ”
“He could go sailing.”
“He could go swimming.”
“He could lie in the sun and rest.”
The partners rang for the company
car and carefully put on their hats.
Rubinstein’s house was on a penin-
sula, 40 minutes drive from Sydney.
On one side, the Pacific Ocean boiled
against rock-footed cliffs, or rolled in
green waves to the clean yellow beaches
pocketing the headlands. On the other
side, mountains of twisted trees locked
long, calm reaches of water.
Peck looked each way, rather absent-
ly, after the partners had installed him
and left. He walked on the terraces,
reclined on the furniture and then re-
tired inside and shut the door.
The housekeeper came from her cot-
tage next morning and prepared break-
fast for Peck. He listened morosely to
her friendly chatter and was reminded
of his first wife. Afterwards, while she
clattered the dishes, he wrote a note
on Rubinstein’s stationery instructing
her he would cook for himself, and
when her husband left off gardening to
take her to the shops, Peck went to the
cottage and poked the note under a
door.
At the end of three days he observed
in a mirror that he had been neglecting
to shave. There was a shock of greyt
in the stubble, which Peck had not


. . . masters in Concrete and Steel
HUME
KNOW HOW WITH “CONCRETE”
I |§||g| m jgfj §§ wm m pPi 4$ 1 > 11 - v #
il;i <<;:_. 44 .r 4.-
•M.m,- JmSpjr w«#»
NT fln . 11*5
lk 9HP 1
A
jßMpm* m „ „_
8iM»» P s .
. Law k a*iS 8HIS! 3i k
Showing how pipes are made under the world-famous
“Humes Process". Centrifugal force spins concrete on
steel wire with gradual build-up to required diameter.
m
- r: 4'
IK
..
m
1
■ ' • :• :::
L4£4
ms
I
~, ;•' -/
WKbKk^^
’a.-.£k *»
•“'« F •
‘ '/' : ■■ ■
One of the many bridges built throughout Australia with
Humes pre-cast reinforced and pre-stressed concrete bridge
components.
simplifies design
and construction ...
The “Humes Process” of Manufac-
turing concrete pipes is used to
make pipes faster, stronger and
cheaper in countries all over the
world. Humes “know how” made
it possible. Since 1910 Humes have
supplied pipes for sewerage, water
supply, and drainage culverts for
most of the great developments in
Australia’s progress. So stay with
the strength , . . when you need
pipes . . . call for Humes.
Humes also make pre-cast, pre-
stressed and reinforced concrete
bridge beams, floor units, piling,
box culverts etc. . . . anything which
requires vast strength and long
service. The Humes “know how”
simplifies construction and reduces
cost. So get Humes working for
you. Use the vast resources of skill
and knowledge available in the
Humes group of companies freely
and without obligation in all your
concrete projects.
HUMES
<j§*>
LIMITED
Head Office: 185 William Street, Melbourne
STATE OFFICES:
Victoria: Hume House, 185 William Street, Melbourne. 678101
New South Wales: Park Road, Regents Park. 6442351
Queensland: 189 Montague Road, South Brisbane. 45881
South Australia: 78-82 West Beach Road, Keswick, Adelaide. 97 1011
Tasmania: 76 Liverpool Street, Hobart. 32741
West Australia: Salvado Road, Wembley. 872311
HCS72X


noted before. He studied the grey hairs
out of narrowed eyes and resolved to
grow a beard. Not an artist’s beard
for decoration, but a Santa Claus beard
for defiance. The growth absorbed his
attention for a week. As the beard
grew longer and greyer it accented the
balding in his hairline. Peck had lost
his teeth early and had forgotten that
he wore a plate. Now he was reminded
of it and removed the denture, except
for eating. When he examined his
greying beard in the mirror, he tipped
his head forward to show the holes in
his hairline and chomped empty gums at
his image.
On a table in Rubinstein's study, a
room Peck found depressing, was a long
polished box with gold-plated clips,
which he opened one evening while he
idled there. Inside, on fixtures of baize,
was a telescope and a tripod. The tele-
scope was bound in leather and its eye
winked faintly in the light. Peck's
hands moved to lift the telescope but
decided for themselves that they would
not. He had no wish to be involved
again in the pointlessness of pursuits.
Peck went into the kitchen and put on
a can of baked beans to warm. He ate
with a spoon and his dentures grinned
crookedly at him from the table. Peck
reflected that one could do without teeth
and prepared a dish of bread-and-milk,
sucking it off the spoon. But his
thoughts kept returning to the telescope
and the wink in its glassy eye.
11/hen it grew dark he put a chair by
" the window and fetched the telescope
from the study. He fixed the tripod,
adjusted the eyepiece and pointed the
lens at the sky. The blistered moon
looked surprising, a great pale ball in
the heavens. He could clearly see that
it had dimension and the mystery of
another side. We usually see it as a
plate. Peck thought it looks more like
a pitted orange. He became uneasy,
studying the moon, feeling its suspended
volume and roundness. It depressed
him with notions of the insignificance
and the consciousness of mortality.
Peck turned the telescope to the Milky
Way and was impressed by its extrava-
gance and beauty. He remembered
that some stars had been gone for mil-
lenniums, burnt out or exploded to dust,
that the light he focused on was the
past made palpable, the living light of
dead stars, journeying through infinity
to twinkle now in his eye. It’s a kind
of immortality, Peck thought. Only
when dawn approached and unwrapped
the dyes of night, did he remove his
eye from the telescope and go sighing
to his bed.
There came a dawn in which Peck
sipped tea and watched the light on the
water. Absently he tipped the tele-
scope and focused on the seafront,
where houses and flat blocks sprinkled.
He saw a milkman making deliveries
and sharpened the image to watch. Peck
could see the milkman as clearly as
though he was in the room and hear the
clink and clank of the bottles by using
imagination. He moved the telescope
to the flat windows. Watching, he saw
a glass go up in one of them and a man
put his legs over the sill. The man
turned to someone inside and for a
moment there was long black hair at the
window. Then he dropped to the
ground, stood looking about and then
nonchalantly walked away. Peck stared
at the floor, remembering himself as he
had been before his first marriage. Life
had seemed so certain and exciting and
Peck had trafficked in windows. He
had been breathless and gauche and
easily startled and once when there
came a knock, he had jumped out of
the window, thinking of the girl’s
father, forgetting they had moved to a
better flat two floors higher up. In the
fall he had badly sprained his ankle and
hobbled on a stick for weeks.
He made tea and toast, lay down to
nap and afterwards returned to the
telescope.
The waves rose tall on the splintery
blue sea, outside the tousled heads of
the bathers. From high above them in
the great white house Peck turned up
the telescope’s magnification. On
colored surfboards as slick as sharks, in
the sculptured shapes of balance, the
young wildly rode the racing walls with
the water’s flecked lip curled above
them, and emerged from the loud crash-
ing of white to ground on whirled sand
and shallows. The mahogany stain of
their strong, suntanned bodies glistened
and dripped as they ran, to push the
boards out again or carry them to the
towels where girls in bikinis waited.
A middle-aged man with hair on his
shoulders lumbered a dropped stomach
down to the water. Peck watched him
wallowing and then thoughtfully went
inside. In Mrs Rubinstein’s dressing
room, he bared his gums at the long
mirror. Then he took off his shirt,
unbuttoned his trousers, and undressed
down to the skin. For a long time he
inspected himself. The flaccid muscles,
the sickly pink skin, the womanish
softening of chest, the sedentary calves,
incipient stomach and unmistakable
plumping of buttocks. Peck breathed
deeply and drew himself up and then
allowed himself to collapse. He dis-
tended his belly, made his shoulders
droop and turned out his feet so they
splayed. In that position he walked
to the drawing room and stood while
he mixed a martini.
When the partners rang, as they did
each week, to enquire about his wel-
fare, Peck was disturbingly vague and
gave little satisfaction.
“What did he say about the new
account?” one of them asked the other.
“He didn’t say anything at all at first,
and when I told him again he just said
‘that’s nice’, but very faintly. It must
be a bad connection.”
“I couldn't get on net with him either.
He didn't seem to know who it was.
Get the switchgirl to check and see if
there’s trouble with the line out there”.
When they telephoned again Peck
didn’t answer. He was watching a
schoolgirl in the magpie colors of blue
tunic and white silk skirt. She was flirt-
ing with a lout on a bicycle. He scooped
up her case and pretended to ride away
with it and they wrestled when he came
back. After a while he persuaded her
up behind him and pedalled into the
sandhills. Peck was remembering with
an ear that still gave him trouble from
a clout he had got at seventeen from
a father after a dance at the school.
11/atching the heavens by night and
the humans by day was taking a toll
of Peck. He was drinking too much, not
eating enough and his eyes were in-
flamed from the telescope. The adulter-
ous wife who had turned the tables on
Peck had wounded him more sorely
than he knew. Like many men, the
licence which seemed natural and noble
in himself was an utter confoundment
to him in a wife, an earthquake in the
order he had taken for granted. His
sense of identity needed the sense of
self-importance and Margaret had
graphically demonstrated that for her
his existence had been blurred. It made
Peck unduly conscious of his evident
organic erosion and the plays he wit-
nessed through the telescope were a
forcible instruction on the un-uniqueness
of his life. In his fitful sleep he was
disturbed by nightmares and after
watching the stars, would wake with
such aphorisms on his life as: “Nothing
matters, except matter. Which does not
matter.” On another occasion he sat
up in bed shouting: “Out, out, brief
candle.”
There was a bus stop on the road be-
low the house and he took to pointing
the telescope there, morning and after-
noon. A group of men of his own
age climbed in and alighted at the stop.
Day after day they materialised in the
dreadful sameness of blue suits and grey
hats. Day after day they returned
from the city a little more crushed than
they had left, to carry the badge of their
brief cases home to wives in time-
payment castles.
The telephone rang and Peck con-
tinued to ignore it. The housekeeper
and her husband came sometimes to the
door which he had bolted against in-
trusion. They would call through the
panneling: “Can we get you something
from the shops, Sir?” Peck would say:


“No, thank you.” There were tins
enough in the pantry and drink enough
in the bar.
He watched children for a time, find-
ing it pleasant. He wondered why he
had not had a family and remembered
he had been too busy. Then he con-
sidered that they would probably have
grown up to ride on a bus or wait at
home with hands in the sink having
more children to grow up like them.
“Repetition, repetition,” Peck said.
“What in the world is the point of it?”
Peck gave his right eye a bad knock
on the telescope and it came up in an
ugly blue swelling. Considering it in
the mirror he took off his clothes,
drooped his shoulders, pushed out his
stomach, brushed back his hair off the
bald patches, chomped his gums, splayed
his feet and toasted himself in the glass
with a very strong martini.
The next day an ambulance came
sirening to one of the houses. White-
coated men hurried inside and came out
bearing a stretcher. The siren whirred
and the doors closed and the ambulance
speeded off. Next afternoon a bow of
black crepe went up on the door of the
house. Peck wondered if it was for
one of the men from the bus stop but
he couldn’t be bothered to look. He
put the telescope and tripod away and
shut the case. Then he drew up a
chair, put out bottles and sat down
thinking and drinking.
One of the partners said: “He’s there
all right. I rang the housekeeper.”
“It’s time we brought him back,”
said the second. “He’s had a good long
holiday.”
“Doesn’t do to get too much out of
touch.”
“He’s probably been swimming,
yachting, getting a suntan. It will be
like the old days when he gets back.”
“Next thing we know, he’ll be mar-
ried again,” a third said and they
laughed.
“I wish I were more like him, Peck
really gets life by the throat.”
“Let's all go out there now, and
surprise him.”
They got up and went for their hats.
In a sporting goods store, not far
from the house, the salesman noted that
his grey-bearded customer was drunk.
He had caused amusement when he got
out of the taxi in a turtle-neck sweater
and top hat. He enquired if bagpipes
could be bought in the area and seemed
disappointed that they could not. Then
he chose a repeating rifle in a canvas case
which he slung unsteadily on his
shoulder.
“Ammunition?” the salesman asked.
“Yes, please.”
“How many rounds?”
“Just the one,” Peck said.
REVIEWS
TELEVISION
Bob Raymond’s Britain
By BEVERLEY TIVEY
Project ’64: Britain Today. Channel 9,
Sydney.
A Boy in Australia. Channel 2, Syd-
ney.
"Project ’64 on TCN is the most re-
A warding of locally-produced tele-
vision documentaries, and would indeed
acquit itself well in any company. Since
it has set itself high standards, it must be
judged by them. Though “Britain Today”
was vigorous and interesting, it wasn’t
the most satisfactory of the series.
Project ’64 and producer Bob Raymond
took on a big, probably impossible task
in trying to explain in one hour what
makes Britain tick. Inevitably there were
omissions, and developed argument was
sometimes sacrificed to visual impact.
But the show was only the first of two
parts the second, “Britain Tomorrow”
(shown after going to press) may have
provided some answers. So far, the ques-
tions themselves hadn't been made quite
clear.
Raymond has concentrated almost en-
tirely on two aspects of modern Britain
first, the new ascendancy of the North
of England; second, the restlessness of
Britain’s youth. The nation's cultural in-
terests are ignored; her only contributions
to the arts mentioned are the Beatles
and “Coronation Street”.
Yet Raymond did convey much of the
new spirit of Britain discontented, rest-
less, caught in the final breakdown of
Victorian complacency. Visually the
documentary was remarkable: in par-
ticular the scenes of the Gorbals and the
grimy industrial towns were harshly im-
pressive.
Raymond has fallen over backwards
to escape the obviously picturesque. He
sedulously avoids, for instance, showing
any of the charming countryside around
Stratford, concentrating on the crowded
little town which exploits its heritage
for the sake of tourism, and where the
advertised specialty of the house of the
Judith Shakespeare Tea Rooms is Wimpy
Hamburgers.
Though the Mods and Rockers and
their seaside riots were given a dispro-
portionate amount of the programme,
they provided some of its most perceptive
moments. Without indulgent apologetics,
Raymond managed to show them as
restless, silly youngsters rather than the
degenerate thugs we've been told about.
Their main trouble seemed to be that
self-limiting disease, youth; they now
seem to me much more comprehensible
and pardonable, even if I can't go along
with the earnest parson (known as the
Ton-up Vicar) interviewed in the show,
who solemnly pronounced them to be
“an absolutely splendid group of young
people.”
Also they gave Bob Raymond the
chance for an extraordinary sequence
an interview in a London shop with
a tailor who specialises in Mod clothes.
His young customers, he says, spend half
their wages on his sharp, shoddy wares,
and since they soon discard them “quality
doesn't matter here.” Does he think
the teenagers’ expenditure on clothes ex-
cessive? No, it’s better than wasting
money on booze, as their parents did.
“Instead of a drunken nation we've got
a well-dressed nation,” he said, looking
lovingly at a pair of swim trunks worn
by a skinny male model who had sud-
denly materialised on the screen.
npHERESE Denny's “A Boy In Australia”
is a trumped-up, creaky documentary
purporting to show Australia through
the eyes of a 17-year-old boy. For a
youth who has failed in the Leaving and
who admits that his main interest is in
“physical things”— disappointingly, this
turns out to mean surfing he’s remark-
ably voluble and sententious, and in an
improbable soliloquy has much to say
about the hard lot of old-age pensioners,
the Wyndham Report and the beauty of
Sydney Harbor.
The programme included interviews
with such varied people as Donald Horne
(giving dignified approval to today’s
youth), Professor Harry Messel (accus-
ing Australia of illiteracy, which he de-
fines as ignorance of science) and L. J.
Hooker (lauding understandably
the country’s financial opportunities).
Mr Hooker also took us to a “million-
aire’s barbecue”, which featured the usual
beer and blackened sausages and only
differed from a pauper's barbecue in that
the lady guests wore black instead of a
shirt and pants.


ANTIQUE
DEALERS
FAIR
AND EXHIBITION
1964
MENZIES HOTEL
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY
12th to 18th October—ll a.m. to 10 p.m*
(Because of Gala Opening Monday night the Fair will close at 5 p.m.)
RECORDINGS
Viennese Trio
Mozart: String Quartets Nos. 14 and
15. The Juilliard String Quartet.
Epic ELC/ELCS 9107.
Mozart: Symphony No. 36; Eine
Kleine Nachtmusik. Vienna Phil-
harmonic Orchestra, conducted by
Istvan Kertesz. Decca LXTA/
SXLA 6091.
Mozart: Flute Concerto in D. Bach:
Suite No. 2. Gluck: Dance of the
Blessed Spirits from “Orpheus”.
Claude Monteux (flute), London
Symphony Orchestra, conducted by
Pierre Monteux. Decca LXTA/
SXLA 6112.
Beethoven: Piano Sonatas Nos. 1,5,
6 and 7. Wilhelm Backhaus. Decca
LXTA/SXLA 6097.
Beethoven: Sonatas for Violin and
Piano Nos. 2, 6 and 8. Zino Fran-
cescatti (violin), Robert Casadesus
(piano). CBS BR/SBR 235073.
Schubert: “Death and the Maiden”
Quartet; Quartet in E-flat. Vienna
Philharmonic Quartet. Decca
LXTA/SXLA 6092.
Tt is no surprise that in a round-up
of the most interesting or recent
recordings of music from the “Viennese”
school of composers Mozart’s name
should be so prominent. There is every
sign that Mozart is passing even Beet-
hoven and Tchaikovsky as the top box-
office composer.
Mozart was able to evoke deeply dis-
turbing suggestions of pathos by casting
the slightest shadow over the placid
surface of the “classical” idiom; Beet-
hoven had to fight the idiom. These dark
intimations of Mozart are well illustrated
by the D Minor Quartet from the set
dedicated to Haydn, played with impec-
cable technique and unerring sympathy
by the Juilliard Quartet. In every respect
this recording is the pearl of this col-
lection: two fine, well contrasted quartets
in performances that leave nothing to be
desired.
Both the other Mozart discs, though
technically admirable, do leave just a
little to be desired. Kertesz, I feel, is
inclined to push the “Linz” Symphony a
little too hard in tempo and dynamics,
though never to the extent of disturbing
the marvellous precision and attack of
the Vienna Philharmonic. The “Nacht-
musik” is unexceptionable, and the little
march used as “filler” is a delight.
Claude Monteux, as soloist in the
second Mozart flute concerto under his
father's direction, is nimble and produces
a beautifully liquid tone; but I have heard
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra’s excel-
lent principal flautist, Neville Amadio,
bring more style and sparkle to Mozart.
(The reverse side bears a performance
of the Bach B Minor Suite interpreted
fluently but with little reference to period
practice.)
The veteran Backhaus gives masterly
performances of four early sonatas
(none later than Opus 10). One admires
especially his clarity (with refreshingly
little use of the sustaining pedal) and
the complete absence of “salesmanship”.
The only reservations are that the piano
sounds a little shallow in the top register
and the prophetic D Minor Largo from
Opus 10 No. 3 is a trifle too fast and
unemotional. Backhaus here seems over-
anxious to avoid sentimentality.
To summarise upon the two remain-
ing records on the list: Francescatti and
Casadesus give finely integrated perform-
ances of second-best Beethoven; the
Vienna Philharmonic Quartet play with
skill and affection in the well known
D Minor Quartet of Schubert and the
same composer’s little known but agree-
able Quartet in E Flat, written at the
age of 16.
MARTIN LONG
THEATRE
Misguided Shafts
Is Australia Really Necessary? Phillip
Theatre, Sydney.
Man Speaking. Written and directed
by Harold Lang. Union Theatre,
Sydney.
are the dear dead days when
patrons of the Phillip Theatre would
burst into laughter at the sight of Gor-
don Chater's name on the programme,
then convulse their friends for months
afterwards with their imitation of his
imitation of what’s-her-name. The Phillip
moved into a larger theatre and went
after larger audiences.
This gives it problems in presenting
revue, its original field, which in “Is
Australia Really Necessary?” are not
solved with unbroken success. “Is Aus-
tralia Really Necessary?” is bright, well-
produced entertainment, but larger audi-
ences mean a wider target and the shafts
with which their writers once hit the
mark bang-on now sometimes land with
a soft splosh.
A larger theatre has meant a bigger
budget and a bigger cast. The 10 players,
picked by producer Charles Hickman,
are agreeable and seem talented but the
tail-enders have so little to do beyond
brisk Betty Pounder dance-steps and
bright little patter that they might have
been cut off the end of the chorus of
“How to Succeed in Business” and sold
to Phillip as a job lot. In revue everyone
should count, and everyone should at
least seem to be aware that the world
out there is a pretty funny place.
Phillip’s main answer to the quest for
bigger audiences is the imported star and
Miriam Karlin is a happy choice. She is
a skilled and willing performer with an
engaging presence, who can make the
best of poor material. She is also strong-
minded enough to have made sure by
now that some of the poor material she
was handed is jettisoned.
Whereas Miss Karlin is highly ani-
mated, Barbara Wyndon scarcely seems
to move the few muscles she has in her
clever body. Her hiccupping Little Pattie
is wonderful. Red Moore is at almost


CRANE makes saucepans flat as pancakes!
Crane Copper and Aluminium Pty. Ltd.
supplies flat circles of aluminium sheet to the
manufacturers of famous brands of saucepans.
This company also supplies aluminium, brass
and copper in sheets, coil, strip, extrusions, etc.,
to many branches of Australian industry for
fabrication into such items as kettles, kitchen
furniture, caravans, aeroplanes, milk bottle
tops—hundreds of things we see and use in
everyday life. Other companies in the Crane
Group include Crane Products Pty. Ltd. who
manufacture a complete range of distinctive
building sheet in five different profiles and
G, E. Crane Pty. Ltd., who are well-known to
the plumbing industry for their complete range
of taps, valves, copper tube for hot and cold
water services, in fact, every plumbing item
required from the Water Board mains.
If you have any problem involving aluminium,
brass or copper for saucepans, salt shakers
or even ships, it’s almost certain that Crane’s
will have the answer.
CRANE COPPER & ALUMINIUM PTY. LTD.
G. E. CRANE PTY. LTD.
CRANE PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.
CRANE (VIC.) PTY. LTD. • BRALCO PTY. LTD.
WATSON & CRANE PTY. LTD.
G. | E.
CRANE
GROUP
ALUMINIUM • BRASS • COPPER
Contact the Crane Group office in your state
Sydney, 74-0351; Melbourne, 35-4316; Brisbane, 60-4041; Adelaide, 57-8019; Perth, 23-1441.
CP-10*


MORE JETS
EVERY WEEK TO
MORE CITIES
THROUGHOUT SOUTH EAST ASIA
Malaysia ... a perfect union of
South East Asia’s most prosperous
and friendly countries. The Malay
Peninsula, Singapore, Sarawak and
Sabah combined, create a single
friendly nation offering the visitor
all the exotic wonders of modern
and ancient Asia.
Picture on the right shows
Malaysia’s new Parliament House,
Kuala Lumpur, with a Chinese girl
dressed in the Malay sarong and
kebaya.
mss *
iPniif wi i
SlltlfPiill 5
■
MittPf
;!? r- i
% V.
MALAYSIAN AIRWAYS
MALAYSIA’S NATIONAL AIRLINE-SERVING SOUTH EAST ASIA
xT u
BANGKOK
* i
' ••••
W* 1
r :
JESSELTO
SABAH
. 11
RIlS:
KOTA
BHARU
m
SNGGANU
BRUNEI
IPOH
'•kuantan m
MALAY/
‘ENINSUL
UR
KUCHING/
:
| III;
SILVER KRIS JET
F-27 FRIENDSHIP
CIM/"iA
\ FROM AUSTRALIA
CONSULT YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR
mm
OUR GENERAL SALES AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA.


DISAPPOINTED WRITERS
Established author analyses typescripts, tells
you WHY publishers refuse your work.
Enquiry without obligation: "Authors' Service ,
Box 213, Charters Towers, Queensland.
every appearance successful and in com-
mand of his character. The other play-
ers have little opportunity to extend
themselves, but Donald Macdonald must
have the makings of a very funny man.
The writers have played safe with too
many old subjects. When Liz and Bob
come into the opening chorus you can’t
help wishing for a change of Govern-
ment. And it’s impossible not to believe
the whole team would be struck dumb
if it were suggested to them that there
isn’t anything essentially or irresistibly
funny about television advertising slo-
gans.
They might have made more use of
visual humor. What people do is often
funnier than what they say. The Alan
Melville sketch from London with an
eight-foot papier-mache gorilla in a sub-
urban living-room shows the possibilities.
When a local writer saw them, too
with scenes of Sydney at its most atro-
cious flashed on a screen with “Jeru-
salem” as background music the
result was brilliant.
“Man Speaking” is an entertainment
devised by Mr Harold Lang, who has
already presented his “Macbeth In
Camera”. However, this year William-
son’s devised a way of getting Googie
Withers on stage in snippets from
Shakespeare, actors have devised their
own poetry readings and the Old Tote
devised a way of getting Brecht on
their minute stage. What Sydney
audiences need is someone who can
devise a way of getting about 40 actors
on stage for a full-scale presentation
of a first-class play.
None of which is Mr Lang’s business,
and if you lived in Mildura or Mitta-
gong, you might be awfully pleased to
see him carrying his brave banner. “Man
Speaking” should be well received in
universities and schools. Nothing is said
about Donne, Blake or Milton that
hasn’t been said before. But vigorous
readings from these poets demolish the
pallid view that English poetry, as read,
sounds always as if it were “something
rueful that happens at night.”
PATRICIA ROLFE
Eighty Summers
Photo Finish. Peter Ustinov. Union
Theatre, Melbourne.
Sergeant Musgrave’s Dance. John
Arden. Emerald Hill Theatre, Mel-
bourne.
casting is very nearly the most
important thing in the theatre;
sometimes the most important. “Photo
Finish” is a play that almost entirely
depends on casting, and John Sumner
has not cast it well. Since, additionally,
this is one of those middle-of-the-road
productions which, while lacking nothing
in competence, adds nothing to the play,
the result is a rather mixed evening.
But the fault lies chiefly with Ustinov.
He had an idea which called for a
streak of genius to yield a memorable
play, and the streak is pretty thin. There
is an 80-years-old man, Sam Kinsale,
who meets himself in the body at three
stages of his life. In other words, here
we have again the concept of inverted
time. Sam at 20, 40, 60 and 80 is
battling through the problems of love
and creativeness; he is a poet-idealist
turned successful novelist and a romantic
lover who grows wise as a frustrated
husband. His own father enters the
constellation and with him another
question: are we bound eternally to re-
peat the same pattern?
The possibilities are immense but they
are never realised. This is largely be-
cause the four Sams are four different
men, common experience notwithstand-
ing. Their clash certainly promotes situa-
tion humor and, occasionally, flashes of
real wit, as each goes to work on the
other. But a writer like Shaw would
have known that this is not enough.
Sam I, 11, 111 and IV should also have
to do a bit of fighting with themselves,
that is, against those quirks and tenden-
cies which make the next stage emerge
inevitably from their last previous one.
Thus the comedy would have an inner
unity and a deeper meaning ... which
is what it needs. And it might not have
bloomed into full-grown corn at the
end . . . which is what it does.
To cast it must have been the very
devil. The four Sams do not necessarily
have to resemble each other physically,
but we must be able to feel that, how-
ever much they change, they are hewn
from the same block. This we can’t.
Frank Thring as the most senior of the
quartet gives a measured and impressive
performance, though he does not man-
age the near-impossible feat of joining
decrepitude to virility. (A decrepit
Thring cannot be imagined.) But his
three alter egos barely come up to
scratch. Michael Duffield Sam at a
lecherous 60 is too much the 'actor
and too little the man. Sidney Cona-
bere has some good moments as Papa
Kinsale.
“Sergeant Musgrave’s Dance” is a
rather shapeless but powerful play
with a streak of greatness. Musgrave,
sensitively played by George Whaley,
leads three fellow-deserters from Queen
Victoria’s army on a pretended recruit-
ing mission to a strike-bound Midlands
town. A God-possessed pacifist who also
sees himself as a divine avenger this
is his paradox he throws down the
gauntlet to the forces of order and revolt
alike.
Mad with the ache of thwarted good-
ness, he marches himself and his com-
rades to destruction. In Wal Cherry’s
as usual highly muscular presentation,
visual plasticity is realised. The gaps
may be traceable to the play itself which,
movingly but not with complete
authority, fuses dream-like moods (Arden
disclaims symbols) with the neo-
naturalism of modern North Country
drama.
Yet the emotion strikes home and the
experience would reward a much larger
patronage. John Paton, Mark Albiston,
Kevin Colebrook, John Miller and
Georgie Alcock have the strength which
the main parts require.
DAVID MARTIN
FILMS
Peepshows
America Through the Keyhole
(L’Amerique Insolite). Director,
Chris Marker. Gala Theatre, Syd-
ney.
The Keeler Affair. Director, Robert
Spafford. Gala Theatre, Sydney.
A highly original documentary made
some years ago, Chris Marker’s
“L'Amerique Insolite’’ has turned up
practically unannounced as a supporting
feature. He brings a sharp, unsenti-
mental intelligence to his study of a
country which obviously both delights
and appals him.
The commentary (given here in
English) is calm and unobtrusive: the im-
plied comments of Marker's camera give
a more outspoken statement of opinion
on the American dream and its fulfil-
ment or otherwise. The color photo-
graphy is often breathtaking; there is
startling visual beauty in the scenes of
a New Orleans Mardi Gras in the rain,
of the inside of a prison, or of dumped
cars half-submerged in a swamp.
The main feature of the bill, “The
Keeler Affair’’ (released for some odd
reason in the middle of British Fortnight),
is ludicrously sleazy and amateurish, like
a blue film without the dirty bits.
The film comes down heavily on the
side of Christine Keeler, who is portrayed
by a button-eyed zombie called Yvonne
Buckingham, and of Dr Stephen Ward,
played by John Drew Barrymore with a
blond dye job and dubbed-in upper-
crust voice, in which he refers to Chris-
tine as “just a bewildered little girl.”
BEVERLEY TIVEY


' ■ i
mg
'
is*
JS®SSSi
Jls!sf;§pli
r
r n
There is
nothing
stronger
inyi
than
STEEL
X
/
i
A formable steel sheet —with
its own bonded vinyl fabric surface
You get the best of two worlds in Lysaght
Marviplate. Here is all the massive strength of
steel ... all the sales appeal of a decorative,
warm-to-the-touch vinyl film.
Marviplate brings new beauty and strength . . .
puts new ‘sell’ . . . into panelling, office furniture,
luggage, TV cabinets ... into at least one of your
current range of products.
Simply contact your local Lysaght office. A senior
representative, fully trained in Marviplate tech-
niques, will call at your plant to give you helpful
and practical advice without obligation.
THINK OF THE SALES YOU COULD MAKE WITH
A product of JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED Sydney. Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. MP29c


RED PAGE
The Perils of Diplomacy
By CORAL BELL
Diplomat Among Warriors. Robert
Murphy. Collins. 565. 6d.
America’s rise to the dominant role in
world diplomacy has been so swift
that the careers of some State Depart-
ment men are co-extensive with the
whole process, and their professional his-
tories have therefore become in a unique
way the histories of a diplomatic revolu-
tion. Robert Murphy saw as varied and
hazardous a service as any member of
that pivotal generation. He came into
the business of international politics very
much by the tradesman’s entrance as a
State Department stenographer-typist,
sent to Switzerland to be a code-clerk
in 1917 because an injured foot kept him
out of the armed services. The first half
of his career was spent in the routine of
consular work and minor diplomatic
appointments. But he happened to be
stationed in Paris for the ten years from
1930 to 1940, and to be still there at
the time of the French collapse in 1940,
so that he became Charge d’Affaires in
Vichy. Thus when Roosevelt, in 1940,
was beginning to interest himself in
North Africa as a possible future theatre
of war, it was Murphy whom he sent for
and commissioned as a sort of personal
intelligence-officer to discover whatever
might be usefully found out in Vichy
and in French Africa.
This was the beginning of Murphy’s
translation from bread-and-butter diplo-
matic routine to four years in which he
literally made history in a way that
normally falls only to heads of govern-
ment, contriving a coup here, and telling
a king to abdicate there. His British
“opposite number” in these years, in
which Anglo-American forces mounted
the invasions of North Africa and Italy,
was Harold Macmillan, already at this
time a rising political force in Britain, as
one of Churchill’s potential heirs. But
Murphy’s power, as Roosevelt’s “man in
Algiers”, was in fact the greater, though
he had no personal political standing,
simply because in the last analysis the
President had the overriding power of
decision in the alliance.
The chief piece of policy-making with
which Murphy was concerned was the
famous “Darlan deal” in North Africa.
As a less involved historian, William
Langer, has pointed out, this arrange-
ment drew more criticism of the Depart-
ment of State than almost any other issue
of foreign affairs in the war years, lay-
ing the unfortunate Cordell Hull (who
was Secretary of State but the last man
Roosevelt ever consulted on foreign
Robert Murphy
policy) open to the accusation that the
department under his charge was “a
citadel of reaction and the breeding-
ground of Fascism”. Yet, as Murphy
tells the story, the Allied choices seem
so inevitable that the fury of the con-
temporary critics becomes apparently
irrelevant and puzzling. What has been
lost in the intervening years is the
memory of what the war seemed to be
about, at this point, to most of those
involved. After all, Murphy’s own
military chief, General Eisenhower, re-
ferred to the role of his forces as a
“crusade”.
rpHE sudden discovery that the
crusade had recruited as its most
useful co-belligerent Admiral Darlan,
the heir-apparent of Marshal Petain, the
bitter enemy of the only French leader
unambiguously on the Western side
(General de Gaulle) and a man usually
regarded as a Nazi himself, was a bit
hard for Western opinion to take, at a
time at which it had not yet begun to
adapt itself to the manoeuvres of high'
political strategy. Murphy has no re-
grets about this part of the North Afri-
can arrangements. His brief was to
organise such political conditions as
would make the task of the military
easiest.
“General de Gaulle told me a few
months later that I failed to appre-
ciate the extent of his popular support
in North Africa. But in 1942 we
Americans were interested not so much
in the question of eventual popular sup-
port as we were in the control then of
the French military establishment of
125,000 trained and experienced Army,
Navy and Air Force personnel, plus
about 200,000 reservists, many of whom
were Arabs who did not care a rap
about de Gaulle. The French Navy
and Air Force officers were predomi-
nantly hostile to de Gaulle then and so
were a good many Army officers”
(p. 142). It was a fair enough reply,
and the policy itself was a reasonable
enough embodiment of the principle
which Roosevelt and Marshall had
agreed upon, and which Eisenhower was
to carry out: the principle that where
there was a clash between immediate
military considerations and longer-term
political considerations, the military ones
should prevail.
In North Africa it all worked out com-
paratively well, especially as Darlan was
despatched by a young French assassin
before he had time to prove an embar-
rassment to future arrangements. But
the same principle, that military consi-
derations should have priority over
political ones, was applied later by
Eisenhower to mean that the West should
make no effort to reach Berlin before
the Russians did, and its limitations as a
view of the relationship between war and
politics are apparent from the long-term
results of that decision.
The years in North Africa and Italy
are the centrepiece of this book, and
Murphy's account of them is his most
substantial contribution to the history of
our time. But he seems to have ‘‘helped
out” at almost every crisis-point of
American foreign policy until 1960, from
the Potsdam Conference and the Belgian
Congo to advising Mrs Perle Mesta, “the
hostess with the mostest”, on how to cope
with the duties of being Minister to
Luxembourg. Most of the men who
created the contemporary world pass
before his level, shrewd, sardonic gaze,
and some of them do not come off very
well from the scrutiny. Roosevelt, for
instance, emerges, as he does from some
other first-hand accounts, as one who
embarked on international politics rather
in the spirit of an adventurous boy-
scout, with a quite unfounded faith in his
own understanding of and ability to
control events, and an almost insolent
high - handedness in disposing of the
assets and interests of other powers, such
as France.
The harvest that America is reaping
now, in the intransigence of President de
Gaulle, was mostly sown by Roosevelt.
As to Eisenhower, I should say Murphy
has a good many reservations and, though
he is not very explicit about them, he
has a rather devastating little list of what
he considers the General's major mis-
takes. Like many State Department
men he obviously suffered from Dulles’
rather capricious administration of the
Department of State, being indeed briskly


removed from the comfortable and well-
deserved post of Ambassador in Japan
after only eleven months, hecause
Dulles wanted to bestow it elsewhere.
Eden comes off very badly from the
account of the Suez crisis, as a man who
never really understood the changes in
the world from the ’thirties to the ’fifties.
The one major political figure who seems
to have commanded Murphy's admira-
tion and even affection throughout this
joint endeavor was Harold Macmillan.
It is an interesting success for that ambi-
guous and subtle-minded statesman be-
cause Murphy is on the whole impatient
with ambiguities and subtleties.
He is himself very much the profes-
sional diplomat, in a more old-fashioned
mode than the Harvard intellectuals who
recently have taken to the State Depart-
ment. His pride in a proper professional
sang-froid is rather comically apparent
in one story about the Suez crisis. A
high-ranking colleague who had taken
the Russian threats to heart expressed
alarm lest they “all be burned to a
crisp”. He was, explains Murphy
austerely, “not a career Foreign Service
officer”.
Southern Boyhood
My Brother Bill. John Faulkner.
Gollancz. 365.
HThe Bill of the title is, of course, Wil-
liam Faulkner, the Nobel Prize-
winning novelist. John died recently, and
only in his early sixties, but this is a
much older man’s book, rambling, repeti-
tive, discursive, obtuse, and, if not pre-
cisely dull, then totally undistinguished.
The faint whirr of a tape-recorder sounds
behind the printed page.
From the outset a lack of organisation
irritates. The short, introductory chap-
ter describes William Faulkner’s sudden
death. It is moving because it is deeply
felt, but so cluttered with names—given,
nick, and married that reading it is
difficult.
The Faulkners were a Mississippi
family who moved to Oxford (the town
where William lived till his death and
which he immortalised in his novels) in
1902 when William was five years old.
John stresses (not once but half a dozen
times) how different a place the town
was in early 20th-century days. The
family had a large allotment, hunted in
nearby woods, rode horses, grew most of
their own vegetables, had plenty of
The recent Penguin special ‘‘What’s
Wrong With British Industry?” is com-
mented on in an article in the Business
and Finance section, page 58.
Negro helpers (whom they seem to have
regarded with affectionate paternalism),
and the children, led by Bill as eldest
brother, survived many near-fatal scrapes.
There is a nostalgic charm about many
of these reminiscences, especially as some
incidents are relevant to William’s later
writing. But other Southern American
writers have described this sort of life
better.
John Faulkner’s direct remarks about
William’s fiction are neither full nor per-
cipient. Of “Sanctuary”, for instance,
it seems almost insulting only to say
that Bill “told me he couldn’t get
people to read his other books so he
decided to write one they would. He sat
down one day to think of what would be
the most horrible thing he could put in
a book and came up with the idea of a
man using a corncob on a girl”.
What really emerges very strongly and
absolutely unintentionally from these
pages, and from between their lines, is
a terrible account of how lonely William
must have been in the midst of his close,
affectionate, loyal and clannish family
circle, and in the town where he lived all
his life.
“Most of our townsmen let him be.
If he saw them and spoke, they returned
his greetings. If he did not, they thought
merely that he was making up another
story and did not want to be disturbed.
As to his greatness, they knew that quite
a stir was being made over him through-
out the world and there must be some
reason for it. But to them he was some-
one they had known all their lives . . .
he was a little strange, he was not
enough different to be great . . .”
NANCY KEESING
Photo-Finish
Convention. Fletcher Knebel and
Charles Bailey. Weidenfeld and
Nicolson. 235.
A Winter’s Tale. Nathaniel Benchley.
Hutchinson. 235.
Tn “Convention”, the authors trace the
moves of two rival Republican
candidates for presidential nomination
from the time they arrive in Chicago
until a photo-finish ballot a week later.
When, early in the book, the authors
define a typical Convention as “a
drunken cocktail party mated to an iron
foundry” it reads like an amusing exag-
geration. Long before the end, it has
to be reassessed as an understatement.
Charles B. Manchester, Secretary of
the Treasury, first enters the madhouse
of brass bands and prancing drum-
majorettes with the nomination appar-
ently already in his pocket. But no
one has allowed for his one big fault:
honesty. And honesty, as his campaign
director, Obie O’Connell, points out
. . causes a hell of a lot more trouble
in politics than corruption”.
The trouble starts when a TV inter-
viewer asks for his views on nuclear
defence spending and Manchester states,
“Enough’s enough.” Suddenly, many of
his supporters see their own positions and
profits in danger, particularly associates
of Universal Forge, which has the big
Daphne missile project contracts. Even
President Stuart unofficially withdraws
his unofficial support. Overnight, the
favorite loses friends and influence to the
fat man of the show, Bryan Roberts,
Governor of California, a rotund symbol
of the good life.
Roberts has an unusual assistant
called Oscar: an electronic brain which
has been secretly housed in a backroom
to hoard confidential data about all the
delegates. Mark Davidson of Universal
Forge is allowed access to the brain and
uses the information to blackmail people
into voting for Roberts. But Oscar
unwittingly offends another supporter,
Grace Orcott of Texas, by disgorging
into her hands the exact amount in dol-
lars of her own unpaid debts and other
intimate family details.
Opponent Manchester appears out of
the running until the daughter of the
incensed Grace Orcott becomes infatu-
ated with Archie DuPage, one of his
workers, and divulges the existence of
the unethical Oscar. Then Manchester’s
wife wheedles another director of Uni-
versal Forge, a grand old air ace, into
publicly proclaiming that “Enough IS
enough” for defence; and his daughter-
in-law starts a spontaneous chain-tele-
gram reaction with spectacular results.
It is in an atmosphere of almost unbear-
able tension, thick with tricks, bribes and
ticket-forgeries, that the ballot finally
takes place.
Nathaniel Benchley has written a light-
weight, entertaining novel about a group
of amateur actors who try to defeat the
boredom of the long winters spent at a
New England summer resort island by
staging a play. An out-of-work producer,
Dennis Pastor, who is grateful to be
mistaken sometimes for Henry Fonda,
is engaged to direct the show.
He starts off with plans for Ibsen’s
“Ghosts” but old maid Priscilla Warren,
who once almost had a piece accepted
and therefore knows just enough about
the theatre to interfere, vetoes anything
“about syphilis” and insists on her choice,
“You Can’t Take It With You.”
The difficulties before the production
is finally and triumphantly presented will
sound familiar enough to old hands: the
main backer withdraws because his wife
is cast as the drunk instead of the
duchess; another actor has an accident;
the scenery is burnt down; the dress-
rehearsal is bedlam; but it is a nice and
original touch to have the theatre-roof
fall in as well. Everything is incredibly


R
IN MELBOURNE
smart people stay at the
RESS ORIENTAL HOTEL
at the Paris end of Collins Street.
Right in the heart of busi-
ness, entertainment, theatres
and shopping centre.
100 rooms—newly decor-
ated, 24 hour room service.
New air-conditioned res-
taurants, the Rib Room, for
delicious aged beef and steaks;
the Harlequin Room for the
young at heart.
Hotel shops include chem-
ist, florist, boutique—and a
step away is the high fashion
world of Collins Street.
Car parking at the hotel.
Ask about our Family
Booking Plan (children free).
For reservations, ring Mel-
bourne 636031; Sydney
298392, your Airline or
Travel Agent.
RESS ORIENTAL
MELBOURNE
IF YOU HAVE A
FLAIR
FOR WRITING . . .
Turn your talent into a spare-time income.
There is a constant demand for well-written
stories, articles, pars, radio and TV scripts,
etc., and YOU can learn to write successfully
for Australian and overseas magazines and
papers.
STOTT’S can train YOU by post.
For details of Stott’s excellent cor-
respondence courses in literary subjects,
post the coupon below . .
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 338 George
St., Sydney; 390 Adelaide St., Brisbane;
45 Gilles St., Adelaide; 1130 Hay St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
Age B 2164
all right on the night and the local rag
gives it a rave review, concluding with:
“The play was called ‘You Can’t Take
It With You’, and was written by George
S. Kaufman and Moss (Lorenz) Hart,
and they are also to be congratulated on
a fine job of writing . .
All this can be swallowed without a
murmur. Anything can happen in the
theatre and usually does. It is the per-
sonal relations and reactions of the
islanders that are simply unbelievable.
Under the influence of the play, couples
who have lived at cross-purposes for
years suddenly fall into each other’s
arms, black sheep become white, un-
faithful wives creep back to the fold and
the producer turns down the long-awaited
offer of a big chance to direct a big
star off-Broadway in order to remain on
the island indefinitely!
Any son of Robert Benchley must
know far too much about the alchemy
of the theatre to expect it to bring out
anything but the worst in people, once
they get behind the scenes. Therefore,
taken at its face value, this may seem
nonsense. But as part of the sly satire—
so sly at times that it might almost be
missed —the multiple happy endings give
a final, gently ironic twist to another
“Winter's Tale”.
MARIA WOLKOWSKY
Graves
Man Does, Woman Is. Robert Graves.
Cassell. 255.
AH the Room. David Rowbotham.
Jacaranda. 225. 6d.
|>obert Graves’ new volume adds
-*■*' three more slim selections (XV-
XVII) to his Collected Poems, and dis-
plays everywhere his mastery of tone and
diction. Outstanding here of course are
the love poems —among them “Secrecy”,
one of Graves’ most exquisite lyrics, and
“The Black Goddess”. Impressive, too,
are the ballads, some brilliantly ironical
songs, and one or two very funny poems,
notably “The Hung Wu Vase” where
delicate irony and gusto meet. “Dance
of Words” is certain to be quoted from
now on as Graves’ Art of Poetry; and
the whole selection is enhanced by the
presence of a number of superb qua-
trains among which “The Leap” and “To
The Teumessian Vixen” are especially
fine.
Do not mistake me: l was never
a rival
Of that poor fox who pledged
himself to win
Your heart by gnawing away his
brush. Who ever
Proved love was love except by a
whole skin?
Graves favors a plain language—“the
theme plain” as he says in “Dance of
Words”. His diction is bare, spare,
extremely concentrated. He has always
rejected rhetoric and artifice. And yet
the impression one has of his work is one
of lucid eloquence and rapt control, of
a certain richness of response. Like
Cavafy, he has never written anything
but extremely short, “slight” lyrics—and
yet they build up into a fully integrated
poetic world that imposes through the
sheer force of its feeling and style. With
Graves one is always aware of the pre-
sence of a man speaking about some-
thing of urgent concern —and this sense
of necessity gives all he writes its un-
mistakable distinction and power.
David Rowbotham’s “All the Room”
is his third collection of poems and in
some ways his best: it is more varied
than either “Inland” or “Ploughman and
Poet”; and it shows him striking out in
new directions.
Rowbotham’s strength has always been
that of simple affection for and appreci-
ation of country life and living. His
tone is subdued, unassertive. One feels
that he would rather not be heard than
have to raise his voice. To adapt one
of his own phrases in the present volume,
he is a poet of “middle moods”; of
morning and evening, of moonlight and
shadows. “Dream” is a favorite word
of his —so is “mist”; and these words do,
I think, indicate the pervasive atmos-
phere of many of his poems. No single
short lyric in this book appeals to me as
much as “Night on a Mountain” in
“Ploughman and Poet”, though “Where
Autumn Stood”, “Your Eyes Were
Measured”, and several others have the
sincerity of Rowbotham at his best.
Early critics of Rowbotham’s work
were quick to point out his over-
indulgence in heavy polysyllabic words,
and while this tendency has been curbed,
it has still not been completely elimina-
ted. Poets are often criticised for thin-
ness of texture, but there is an equal
danger—usually overlooked —of forcing
too much into a poem, of over-packing
it. Some of Rowbotham’s poems lack
balance in this way.
Interesting here are the poems “Chris-
tine” and “Ben Bonney, Stoker”. These
sketches are marked by quiet humor and.
realistic observation. They are full of
sympathy without sentimentality. Striking,
too, is “Summer Night Circus” in the
vein of Douglas Stewart. One would
like to see Rowbotham test to the full
his possibilities as a writer of humorous
verse.
The outstanding piece in this book is
“Waterfall at Franz Joseph Glacier, New
Zealand” —a poem of personal utterance
and conviction written with the energy
of real feeling. It is, with “Night on a
Mountain”, Rowbotham’s best poem.
VIVIAN SMITH


Inside Hiller
Hitler: A Study in Tyranny. Revised
Edition. Alan Bullock. Odhams.
665.
Hitler’s War Directives, 1939-45.
H. R. Trevor-Roper. Sidgwick and
Jackson. 665.
Germans Against Hitler. Terence
Prittie. Foreword by Hugh Trevor-
Roper. Hutchinson. 465.
“HThe Second World War was Hitler’s
personal war in many senses,” says
Prof. Hugh Trevor-Roper in his intro-
duction to “Hitler’s War Directives”.
He intended it, he prepared for it, he
chose the moment for launching it; and
for three years, in the main, he planned
its course . . . Consequently, when he
failed, the failure too was his: so obvi-
ously his that the old national aspirations
which he represented have too often
been quietly forgotten.
The “War Directives” give a selection
of Hitler’s principal personal directives
for the general conduct of war—from
the attack on Poland to the last desperate
“Fuehrer Order” of April 15, 1945.
Joined together by a lucid commen-
tary, they give a broad perspective of
Hitler’s method of initiating, organising
and directing the Third Reich’s war
effort, the barbaric policies in the occu-
pied countries and plans for establishing
the “Thousand Year Reich”. These
documents strikingly illustrate the amaz-
ing extent to which Hitler was capable
of personally influencing the course of
events.
But the other aspect should not be
overlooked. For it was also Germany’s
war, to an overwhelming degree sup-
ported wholeheartedly by the German
people.
There were few Germans who rebelled
against Hitler. They were not repre-
sentative of their respective classes, nor
of the traditional institutions to which
many of them belonged. Even Goer-
deler, the conservative thinker who was
to be the new Chancellor had the con-
spirators succeeded in overthrowing Hit-
ler, spoke of the German frontiers of
1918 (plus a great deal more).
As both Mr Prittie and Mr Bullock
show, the Germans as a whole chose to
accept the “stab in the back” theory as
an explanation of Germany’s 1918 de-
feat.
Deliberately invented by the military,
this theory shifted the blame for their
defeat on the weak and unpopular Re-
publican administration and preserved
the myth of the Army’s invincibility.
This was acceptable to the majority of
Germans, shattered by the unexpected
defeat and the Versailles Treaty. Prof.
Trevor-Roper and Mr Bullock, in his
extensive survey of Hitler’s personal and
political career, point out that the emer-
gence of independent Czechoslovakia
and Poland (which recovered some of the
territories lost to Prussia during the par-
titions) was also something almost no
German could accept.
Germans were unable to bring them-
selves to concede the right to an inde-
pendent national life to the Poles,
Czechs or Slovaks. Mr Bullock under-
lines Weimar Germany’s intense hostility
towards Poland.
That some ethnic Germans should be-
come citizens of “second-class States”,
which before 1918 they had ruled, was
even more intolerable. Much the same
sentiment prevailed towards the Austrians
—“an integral part of the German volk”.
Mr Prittie also emphasises this vital
aspect in his book, in which he goes to
considerable lengths in trying to under-
stand German political, emotional and
psychological attitudes between 1918 and
1945.
To wipe out the Versailles settlement,
restore Germany’s dominant role in
Europe, reconquer the territories and
colonies lost in the 1918 defeat, was not
merely Hitler’s personal ambition. These
were the fervent aspirations of almost
the entire German nation.
Hitler succeeded in gearing his per-
sonal ambitions and lust for power to
this thirst for “change”, which in the
circumstances could only mean “revan-
che'”. A brilliant organiser, a shrewd,
ruthless and audacious politician, he was
able to utilise to his own advantage the
feeling of frustration prevailing among
the broad masses of the German people.
Mr Bullock’s book contains fascinating
chapters on Hitler’s rise to power, his
remarkable ability to play on the emo-
tions.
"E'rom a poor start, an open conflict with
the military and conservative circles
of the Weimar days, the Nazi Party suc-
ceeded in attracting not merely the mal-
contents and misfits but also the genu-
inely radical and revolutionary sections
of German society. Hitler emphasised
his NSDAP’s early revolutionary fer-
vor both to scare the despised conserva-
tives and the “officer caste” into a forced
alliance with him, and to forge his
powerful weapon of a well organised,
radical mass movement.
Sympathetically, though objectively,
Mr Prittie’s “Germans Against Hitler”
traces the history, scope and motives of
German anti-Nazi conspiracies. Though
several attempts on Hitler’s life were
made, culminating in the famous bomb
plot of July, 1944, and several promi-
nent generals and politicians were in-
volved, the German “resistance move-
ment”, poorly and loosely organised,
was unable to bring itself to accept the
full implications of Germany’s impend-
ing second disastrous defeat in 25 years
and could not expect the understanding
of the Western Allies.
A legend is now being built up in We»
Germany around the “July 20” p} 0
satisfying a perfectly natural
longing and trying to fill a vital politic*
need.
Mr Prittie destroys this legend. Bui
in so doing he pays a generous tribute
to the few Germans whose courage and
moral integrity prompted them to forfeit
their lives in a desperate attempt to del
troy Hitler by German hands. He prej
sents a gallery of those who dared t(
resist —conservatives, monarchists, «•
publicans, Marxists, generals, officers
clergymen, workers and students.
And he draws a sharp line betweet
those who fought against Hitler an«
those, who like Hans Globke, jumped or
the bandwagon in the safety of Ade-
nauer’s Federal Republic. f
EUGENE BAJKOWSK
Catalyst
A Man from Nowhere. Elspeth Hux-
ley. Chatto and Windus. 26s. 6d.
some twenty books to her credit,
one expects a high degree of pro-
fessionalism from Elspeth Huxley. Her
best-selling travel books have shown her
to be one of the best-informed popular!
writers on East Africa. Her latest novel
proves that she is equally at home'
describing the scenes and people of rural!
England.
Into the apparent peace of a Cabinet
Minister’s home is dropped a catalyst, in
the form of Dick Heron who has come
from Africa to kill Peter Buckle, the
Minister whose policies he blames for his'
wife’s suicide. On this melodramatic and
unlikely fact is hinged the entire action
of the story and, although the events
leading to Heron’s manhunt are gradu-
ally revealed, it is never quite believe-
able. If Heron is a lunatic, which is
suggested, the illogical revenge obsession
is the only symptom exhibited. He takes'
a job on the farm of his victim and
becomes, against his will, entangled in
the affairs of the Buckle family: “Dick
was hke Banquo’s ghost, popping up con-
tinually where he was least wanted . . .1
a spectre walking with an air of menace
through what should have been the pri-l
vacy of home.”
Partly because of a reluctant love;
affair with the daughter and partly be-1
cause the complexities of English life
confuse his purpose, Heron’s revenge is
thwarted. But his presence has set in
motion a disintegration of Buckle’s family
and this Mrs Huxley makes entirely con-|
vincing. Indeed, if she had concentrated
on the family with or without a “man
from nowhere”, this might have been an
even better novel. As it is, the even,
mature quality of the writing and the
three-dimensional characterisation make
it well worth reading.
TOM PICKERING


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Ouch! That Squeeze
Industry cannot complain that the Reserve Bank’s
action was unexpected when it skimmed £22m. of
trading bank funds into the three-quarters-of-one-per-
cent freezing chamber as at October 14. It merely follows
the existing policy of restraint which has been necessary to
offset the growing pressures on available resources, par-
ticularly labor.
The big jolt, however, was in the Reserve Bank’s stringent
attitude towards new lending. It has asked for a reduction
in new lending and the avoidance of further increases in
existing overdrafts. At the same time it has warned the
finance companies to stay liquid.
The Reserve Bank obviously is concerned over the
£ 1992 m. of undrawn overdraft limits which could add
severely to inflationary pressures. Although restricting new
trading bank advances as far as practicable, the Reserve
Bank’s action undoubtedly could influence existing clients
of the trading banks to utilise their available, unused over-
drafts. This could be offset to some extent by the normal
expiry of overdrafts and the fixing of lower limits when
trading bank managers review each account.
The official attitude of tighter credit already has taken
effect and the fringe bankers, or finance houses, are being
besieged by loan-seekers.
Inevitably, such a situation provokes criticism that Aus-
tralia’s overdraft system is outmoded and that if it is such
a potential threat to inflation it should be replaced by the
American system, where borrowers are discouraged from
seeking more than they need because of having to pay
interest immediately on the full amount sought. The US
borrower usually saves some interest charge by transferring
the unused portion of his loan to a fixed-interest deposit. It
is arguable that such a system may be quite practical in an
industrial and widely diversified financial centre but it is
less appropriate to a primary producing area where over-
draft requirements may fluctuate unexpectedly.
The emergence in Australia of an unofficial money mar-
ket, which utilises unused overdraft limits for backing, has
been the subject of official concern for some time. Less
emphasised, perhaps, is the recognition that many overdraft
owners took precautionary steps to provide themselves
with sufficient overdraft accommodation to anticipate a
credit squeeze.
So far, however, the net increase in bank lending this
year has been modest indeed. The latest restrictions can
only influence a trend towards alternative sources, namely
the fringe bankers. Therefore it becomes an intriguing
exercise to ponder how the Reserve Bank, or the Treasury,
may tackle the problem of ensuring that resort to various
credit sources (such as the fringe bankers) does not add
to the growing pressures on available resources.
Finance companies do not come under the Banking Act,
but they have substantial shareholder support from the
banks. Perhaps the Reserve Bank may imply to the
trading banks that if they do not exercise their influence to
restrain the fringe lenders (where possible) more punitive
measures could be taken against the banks.
Faith at Petersville
A press conference last week with Mr E. Christensen,
chairman and managing director of Petersville Austra-
lia Ltd, revealed that five overseas food companies had dis-
cussed the prospects of marriage when Mr Christensen went
overseas recently but obviously must have had their enthu-
siasm dampened a little when they learned of the restric-
ted, sliding scale voting rights of the company. Any
takeover approach must have the approval of the major
shareholders before being successful.
In an effort to clear up some of the rumors circulated on
Petersville, Mr Christensen indicated that the sharp drop in
consolidated profits from £833,403 to £578,973 in 1963-
64 (with a consequent cut in dividend from 15 to 12} p.c.)
was attributable to a £300,000 write-off in obsolete stocks
which had been on consignment to agents —some of it
dating back to 1953.
These old stocks were an inheritance from takeovers. In
order to clear the decks, some of the food lines were taken
back and destroyed, while the still saleable items were sold
at a loss. Petersville had to honor old agreements with
agents under which stocks were provided on consignment,
were only accepted after they were taken from the store
and paid for 30 days after they were bought, he said.
Presumably this refers to International Canners (taken
over from Grocery and General) and Gordon Edgell Pty
Ltd. These groups are incorporated in the general foods
division of Petersville today, which also incorporates such
names as R. E. Cam and Sons, Quick Frozen Food Distri-
butors Pty Ltd, Birds Eye Foods Australia Pty Ltd, Hy-
grade Food Products Pty Ltd and Hy-Peak Sales Pty Ltd.
This food group, incidentally, is also the highest income
earner for Petersville, followed in turn by the ice cream
division, dairy products, pastry and refrigeration.
We quizzed Mr Christensen on the recent overseas deve-
lopments in cake-making, mentioning that this was reputed
to be one of the major profit-earners of the future. He
said that his company was already in the cakes and pastry
business through Wedgwood Pty Ltd, which was merged
with Four’n Twenty Pies (Holdings) Pty Ltd. He quite
CONTENTS INCLUDE...
PAGE
Trading with Britain .. .. .. .. 59
Evaluating the credit curbs 60
Car accidents and insurance 62
"Speculator" ponders the balance sheets . 78
Selling wool privately 79


proudly pointed out that 72 p.c. of the pies sold in Vic-
toria was handled by his group. This meant a sale of 30
million pies last year. He is hoping for an expansion in the
cake business and expects that many of the big retailers
will be selling his company’s Christmas cakes this year.
At this stage, Mr Christensen claims he is anxious to keep
the company an Australian company for the 23,000 share-
holder “bosses” who own the company. To cope with
decimal currency, the 2s. shares (earlier split from 12s.
shares) may undergo some rearrangement but, either on
the basis of an eventual takeover or a build-up of profits,
he believes the shares at 6s. 2d. are a lock-away proposition
—although he admits that the 2s. par value shares, even
after the recent setback in the market, are still priced higher
than BHP.
Industry and Defence Call-up
of defence call-ups, although a hot potato politically,
must be considered very seriously by industry against
a background of labor shortages. The paucity of skilled
labor already is at crisis level
and any national call-up for
defence must aggravate the
position.
Defence needs must be met
realistically, however. Industry
must plan for a situation where
key operators may be called
away for periods of up to two
years.
Arrangements have been
made to import further skilled
personnel from Britain, but
there is no doubt that Austra-
lia’s growing pains demand a
much larger supply of trained
operatives. If at the same time,
there is a drain of young
people into the armed services,
industry must adjust its think-
ing to inevitably higher labor
costs or replacement by auto-
mation.
Past experience has shown
that competition for skilled
labor leads to an auction sys-
tem and a high turnover. Older
men become more valuable and the retiring age is
lengthened. Australian industry today is unprepared for
the demands of national defence call-ups, because this was
not part of its planning, particularly when labor was in
excess supply in 1961 and 1962.
Penguin’s View of Britain
A recently-published Penguin Special, “What’s Wrong
with British Industry?”, might be read as a harsh
corrective to the glamorised displays (and public relations’
exaggerations) of the just-finished British Exhibition. It
bears directly on the competitive capacity of Britain’s in-
dustrialists to supply a wide range of modern producer
goods to the Australian market.
The book’s author, Mr Rex Malik, certainly does not
attempt to sound detached and academically fair. He
admits that his “blanket of condemnation is in fact full of
holes”, yet undoubtedly uses overstatement to draw atten-
Motor Gar Insurance Premiums
Problems of motor vehicle insurance are discussed in
an article beginning on page 62. The graph above illustrates
increases in the cost of insuring a single car (for two
valuations) since 1938.
tion to serious inefficiencies and archaisms throughout some
major “growth” industries.
If it looks odd to see electronics, engineering and
chemicals (including the much-admired ICI) featuring in
this diatribe, Malik succeeds in establishing a goodly
proportion of his case.
Britain’s lagging growth rate and inability to capture a
greater export volume has been patent since the end of
World War 11. Some of Malik’s remedies also fit the Aus-
tralian export drive, especially better management skills
and the re-training of industrial workers.
Careful with Computers
Australian business and industry, more particularly
medium-sized enterprises, should put themselves on
careful and knowledgeable guard against a selling onslaught
from the computer makers. For some years now the pace
has been swift enough. Yet it
seems likely to accelerate in a
drive towards a market grow-
ing at an estimated rate of 35
p.c. a year.
Despite the profound and
winning claims of technical
modernity any given economy
or company at certain stages
can become over - computer-
ised. Considerable experience
in the highly advanced USA
illustrates that point.
Far from increasing their
efficiency automatically many
businesses found themselves in
a costly mess. They had
bought first and attempted to
work out a rational office and
factory computer-usage after-
wards.
The key to successful em-
ployment of a computer is its
place in a preconceived sys-
tem. Systems advice and analy-
sis is absolutely essential be-
fore purchase or even before buying time at a bureau. The
computer makers have always been very willing to provide
this service and must hold to their standards at a time
of rapidly increasing competition.
Competitive pressures are certain to harden in Australia.
Only a few months ago, America’s International Business
Machines, which possesses a fabulous 80 p.c. of the world
market, launched its new “460” range. At the end of Sep-
tember, English-based International Computers and Tabu-
lators came up with a “Series 1900” doubly important
because it largely represents ICT’s main chance of sur-
vival with the dominant IBM.
Then last week Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia)
entered a joint company, Australian Computers Pty Ltd,
the other partner being English Electric-Leo Computers
Ltd, of London.
All the manufacturers will doubtless echo the now
fashionable claim that future technological discoveries can-
not make their respective machines obsolete. That could
only be true if discovery proceeded in a perfectly logical
and predictable manner. Such talk, of course, complicates
users’ decisions.


“CROESUS”
Anglo-Australian Trade Hazards
Possibilities of the coming era of hard-sell
I>ritain has put across its export show-
case and played on our sense of
history in no uncertain manner in the
last few weeks. Now the exhibits are
packed away, the Guards and the Prin-
cess departed, the hard sell is on in an
all-out effort to turn back the clocks of
Anglo-Australian trade.
For all the fineness of Britain’s recent
displays and the healthy fervor of good-
will towards “the mother country” whip-
ped up in the British Fortnight, Austra-
lians should perhaps tread a little warily
in treating them at their full face value.
For one thing, we should keep in mind
Britain’s attitude towards Common-
wealth trade when making its attempt to
get into the Common Market a couple
of years ago. We should also remember
that the balance of trade between Austra-
lia and Britain is only part of the picture.
When this is seen in the overall perspec-
tive of the balance of payments between
the two countries, the advantage in our
annual economic relations is even more
heavily in Britain’s favor.
Thirdly, we should remind ourselves
that we have embarked on a drive for
new export markets. As the Japanese
have already insisted, success in these
must be matched by widening the scope
for reciprocal trading in the Australian
market. The price of this might eventu-
ally be to scrap imperial preference. That
the latter would have a profound effect
on Anglo-Australian trade is undoubted.
IS7hether or not the failure to get into
the Common Market was the crucial
consideration, since that event Britain
has been making strident efforts to stiffen
its position in the Australian market. The
massive scale of the British Exhibition in
Sydney is an earnest of its endeavors.
The Exhibition could mark the end of
an era in which Britain, under the guiding
angel of imperial preference, more or less
took the Australian market for granted.
After all, without doing all that much to
bolster its exports to this country,
Britain’s position as our biggest source
of imports has never really been
challenged until last year. Even then the
next biggest supplier, the United States,
fell a good deal short of Britain with
imports of £271.8 million as against
£329.5 million.
Nor is it that we are unimportant in
the line-up of Britain’s top customers.
True, we are no longer its best customer
as we used to be, but only the United
States, which took £stg34o.3 million of
Britain’s exports last year, is ahead of
Australia, which imported £5tg235.7 mil-
lion worth (Western Germany was next
with £stg2l3 million, then Canada
£stg 172.6 million).
T>ritain is still well in the box seat
among importers to Australia and
although, as top export market for Aus-
tralia, Japan ran it close last year, taking
£244.3 million of our exports against
SIR NORMAN KIPPING
Chairman of British Overseas Fairs
Britain’s £255.5 million, Britain's shares
of our imports and exports both reached
historical lows. In a record year for
Australian overseas trade Britain’s share
sank to 27.8 p.c. of imports and 18.4 p.c.
of exports.
By way of contrast, Britain's post-war
record share of our imports was 52 p.c.
in 1949-50 (when admittedly many coun-
tries now supplying us liberally with im-
ports still had only limited supplies of
goods to sell overseas), while the biggest
share of our total exports going to
Britain in this period was 42.3 p.c. in
1948-49. The latest shares are far below
pre-war days. In 1938-39 Britain took
54.5 p.c. of our exports (about three
times the present share) and 40.67 p.c.
of our imports.
While the whole accent of the British
Exhibition was on boosting imports from
Britain, it will be obvious at once that
from our viewpoint the drop in our ex-
ports to the British market is the more
serious problem. It is made even more
obvious when invisible imports from
Britain are taken in. Our balance of
payments position with that country
continues to be chronically adverse, even
allowing for substantial capital imports.
If undistributed income attributable to
British interests is excluded (as it should
be), we had an adverse overall balance
of payments deficit of £89.5 million with
Britain in 1962-63, the last year for which
full details of capital inflow are available.
This figure is arrived at after deducting
genuine capital inflow of £70.8 million
from the current account deficit of
£193.8 million, less undistributed profits
of £33.5 million. In other words, when
all payments and receipts across the
international exchanges are taken into
account Britain gained £89.5 million
from Australia in 1962-63. No calcula-
tion can yet be made of the result for
last year, but it would, thanks to high
prices for our exports, be less favorable
to Britain than the 1962-63 result.
A DMiTTEDLY the position would be very
much worse without the receipt of
substantial genuine capital inflow from
Britain (that is, excluding undistributed
income earned in this country by British
interests). Genuine capital inflow from
Britain averaged £65.2 million a year
in the five years to 1962-63 but has
varied sharply from year to year.
In recorded trade terms the position
is admittedly more healthy than shown
by Britain's receding share of the market.
Averaging the last five years (to June
30, 1964) they came to £3lB million a
year. In the five years to June, 1952, they
averaged £2BB million a year, but this
included some years when export goods
were very scarce in Britain. The highest
reached in the imports restriction period
between 1953 and 1960 was £378
million, which is about £SO million more
than last year’s total.
Confronted by these long term trends,
Britain has had to take stock of its
long term position in this market. The
matter became more urgent when it failed
to get into Europe and was made more
urgent still by the realisation that, since
Australian import restrictions were lifted


in 1960, imports from Britain have been
barely steady in recorded trade terms,
while (by 1963-64) total Australian im-
ports had risen by 28 p.c. on 1959-60.
Within this realisation it was decided that
Britain’s main export effort to this market
must be concentrated on supplying pro-
ducer goods and industrial raw material
and components rather than on consumer
goods.
This conclusion was reached by vari-
ous routes. For one thing, Australia has
made great strides in import replace-
ment, more in the field of consumer
goods than producer goods. Competition
in consumer goods was likely to be more
acute, both from other importers and
local manufacturers. But, probably more
important, it was realised that Britain
has a built-in market in Australia for
producer goods, industrial raw materials
and components in the big segment of
Australian industry either wholly or
partly owned by British interests.
The provision of the overseas require-
ments of this segment of industry in Aus-
tralia has provided the hard core of im-
ports for such goods from Britain over
many years and, financed partly by new
capital from Britain as well as in the
normal course of business of the Austra-
lian branches, subsidiaries and associates
of the British firms concerned, this was
the soundest base on which to rely in the
future.
Going on the Sydney Exhibition,
British technologists have a lot to offer,
so the outlook seems favorable in this
direction. Moreover, the quality of the
new plant and equipment aiming
generally at our market is so high that it
should command increasing custom from
locally owned firms here, even if not
perhaps those under the control of
American and other foreign interests
with their own overseas tie-ups.
Demand for producer goods from such
sources largely explains why imports
from Britain accounted for such a steady
and high share of the total import
market during the period of import re-
strictions from 1953 to 1960, and seems
part explanation of why imports from
Britain dropped away in the succeeding
two years when industrial investment and
import replacement slackened after the
1960 boom.
Equally, the failure of British imports
to rise in the last two years seems to sug-
gest that demand from this hard core has
been lagging. This in turn would be a
reflection of the surplus industrial capa-
city resulting from previous over-invest-
ment in this sector of strong British
interest.
So while in one sense the future of
imports from Britain would seem to be
linked closely with the pace of expansion
in the section of Australian industry affi-
liated with British firms, in another sense
it will depend on the general rate of
development, including of course mineral
and public works for whose capital equip-
ment requirements from overseas sources
Britain is likely to set its cap in increasing
earnest.
But for this import market outside
the circle of direct British industrial in-
fluence, the main key to British success
will be its degree of competitiveness,
coupled in a lot of cases with the help-
ful factor of imperial preference. In
other cases, even in the importation of
defence equipment, wider factors im-
pinge, as evidenced by the purchase of
TFX bombers from the United States,
which goes to show that Britain’s old
monopoly of furnishing most of our im-
ported defence equipment is a thing of
the past.
Again, there is the even wider factor
imposed by the reorientation of our ex-
port trade, notably in the direction of
Japan. This will increasingly oblige us
to take more imports from countries
where we are rapidly expanding exports.
That could become the dominant in-
fluence on the future of UK imports
and as has been previously stressed (see
“Croesus”, June 13, page 68), Britain
would have only itself to blame if its
failure to take more of our exports
forced us to take measures to provide
bigger shares of our imports for other
good customer countries at its expense.
It’s not necessary to be a bi-lateralist
to see there are limits to which Austra-
lia’s current balance of payments surp^,
with Japan can go on increasing withot
Japan turning from polite pressure t.!
strong warnings or even to import re
strictions to reduce it.
Last year the surplus increased frorr
£109.1 million to £163.3 million without
this happening. No wonder Sir Warret
McDonald could hold our trade treaty
with Japan as a model of good trades*
manship to a New York audience <J
businessmen recently. Would he ty.
equally pleased with the working of ous
trade agreement with Britain, whicl
hasn’t been revised since 1957? Last yea:
we had a current account deficit o
£135.5 million with Britain.
In recent years the deficit has been a!
high as £193.8 million. We should noj
be surprised if the Japanese dropped
their politeness and, for all their recenl
laboring of the virtues of multi-lateralism,
pointed sharply at the stark contrast
between our balances with them and
with “Britain and called on us to abolish
British preference.
In that case Britain would be thrown
back on a straight test of competitiveness
with other countries (enjoying only MFN
rates) in the range of import trade out-
side the hard core of its tied industrial
and trade interests here. Nobody seems
to know what proportion of British im-
ports is at present attributable to demand/
not dependent on these interests. It is
probably quite a considerable one, but
would be difficult to estimate.
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Context of the Credit Curbs
Is the economic garden still lovely?
Tn a week when the Governor of the
A Reserve Bank made a strong chal-
lenge with his new credit curbs, an econo-
mic Oscar (base metal figure without
filigree) must still go to the level-headed
team of economists at the ANZ Bank
under Mr D. H. Merry for its succinct
summing up of the current economic
situation in its latest monthly release.
“Not all the ingredients of a boom are
present,” it says, “despite strongly rising
factory production, severe labor short-
age with rising overtime, increasing capi-
tal expenditure and rising prices and
wages.
“The most significant missing ingredi-
ents,” it goes on, “are those which would
make up a boom psychology.” Important
among these it sees “a greater rate of
saving than in 1959-60 despite the up-
trend in total spending; relatively low
level of capital raisings by companies;
sluggish movements in share prices; and
lack of speculation in real estate.”
The Treasurer must have welcomed
this postscript to the confident statement
he made a few days earlier after a quick
visit to his department and a look around
the economy on returning from his inter-j
national conferences. In that statement!
he assured us that everything in the gar-'
den looked lovely and would stay that;
way so long as we kept a cool head.!
A similar soporific came from Mr
Holt shortly before Cabinet decided to
have a full scale review of the economic j
situation in November, 1960. We all
know what ensued from that. We know
also that now, as in 1960, the economy
is bursting at the seams. True, as the
ANZ Bank economists tell us, there is
no boom psychology as there was then.
Nor can it be said that a balance of
payments crisis is now in the making, as
it certainly was in November, 1960.


c
FOR ALL FINANCE
FACTORING AND LEASING
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE CORPORATION LIMITED
OFFICES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
M
The recent upswing in imports must
not be allowed to get out of hand, but
at present it is tolerable and indeed very
i useful as an inflation cushioner. In any
case, the September figures for visible
trade show the deficit was cut back to
£12.7 million from a rather high
£28.7 million in the previous month;
capital inflow in the September quarter
looks to have been substantially more
than in any quarter last year (net
apparent capital inflow was at the rate
of just over £4OO million a year com-
pared with last year’s £249 million); and
although reserves lost about £8.9 mil-
lion in the latest week they are still well
in excess of £BOO million when every-
thing is counted in.
Tn going for an expansionist Budget it
-*■ seemed the Federal Treasurer was
banking both on the continued absence
of a boom psychology and the mainten-
ance of a strong external position more
or less indefinitely. He sees no reason
to lose faith despite the warnings that
have gone out from time to time. On
the other hand, Dr Coombs has been
edgy about the economic possibilities for
a long time and first rose to the inflation
bait early this year with three stiff calls
to special deposit account and, later,
increases in interest rates when liquidity
was at the flood and he feared investment
would spill over the dykes.
More recently it might have been
thought his nerves were in better shape,
with the sickness in share prices and
backpedalling bank advances to assuage
his anxieties. Moreover, with as yet no
boom psychology to worry him and the
balance of payments healthy, it could
be hoped that, like the Treasurer, he
would now be sleeping o’ nights—the
better so because all the scares over the
last year which dominated his annual
report have so far come to nothing.
As that report showed clearly, for a
long time now Reserve Bank economists
have been anxiously waiting for retail
sales and savings figures to alert them to
a change in the disposition of personal
incomes pointing to a weakening of the
propensity to save, a corresponding in-
crease in the preference for spending,
and a general swing out of liquid assets.
They are certainly having a long wait.
Albeit with one less trading day in the
month, August retail sales were
£5.5 million less than July’s and, con-
trary to earlier indications, dropped to
a 3.6 increase over the corresponding
month last year compared with a rise of
6.8 p.c. in July, similarly compared.
Moreover, savings banks deposits are
stronger than ever. In August this year
they gained £37.3 million compared with
only £21.3 million in the previous
August. If the continued boom in motor
car sales (36,141 new registrations this
August compared with 33,370 last) has
worked as a safety valve for rising in-
comes, this has not been to the detriment
of savings.
Except in the direction of motor
vehicles, has there been undue stretching
of incomes via hire purchase? True,
total instalment credit (to use the Stat-
istician’s term) of both retail businesses
and non-retail finance businesses rose by
£5.7 million to a new record of
£677.9 million in the June quarter (the
D. H. MERRY
latest combined figures), while hire-
purchase outstanding of non-retail
finance businesses increased by an addi-
tional £9 million in the two months to
the end of August. However, the over-
all rise in the current year is almost
entirely attributable to motor vehicle
financing. In the six months to June
this year, balances outstanding by retail
businesses actualy fell by £8.3 million
and were only about that much higher
than in June, 1961.
Although retail sales spurted in July
following the £1 basic wage rise, their
lapse in August could well be a pointer
to the resumption of a more cautious
attitude, while the fact that HP out-
standings of non-retail finance businesses
in August rose by more than any month
since last December could belie this.
As the banks are now into the usually
high liquidity season and the stage is well
prepared (through the record level of
overdraft limits) for a big rise in bank
lending in the next few months (Septem-
ber bank advances are expected to reflect
the start of this), it is unlikely that the
new £22 million call-up to SDR and the
injunction to the banks to effect some re-
duction on recent levels of new lending
will have much effect on either the level
of personal spending or the spending-
saving equation.
The main incidence of the latest curbs,
which will doubtless be supplemented by
further calls to SDR and possibly fur-
ther injunctions on lending in the next
few months, will be felt in the tight
liquidity season from February to May
next year. All Dr Coombs can expect to
achieve by this method in influencing
the volume of credit, and through it
employment and incomes and so spend-
ing in the next few months, will be by
way of its psychological impact on both
banks and their borrowers.
At best this can only be limited be-
cause, although he has told the banks
“it would also be valuable if those re-
sponsible for other sources of credit
ensured that their liquidity position was
strong,” the psychological impact on
such sources will be at one remove and
not reinforced by an SDR call-up
(since such sources are beyond the Re-
serve Bank’s jurisdiction). So it would be
surprising if they failed to grasp the
opportunities of filling (at a higher price)
the demands of borrowers shut out by
the banks themselves in conforming to
the Reserve Bank's requirements.


Car Insurance Gamble
Premiums don’t keep pace with claims
recent Australia-wide insurance
decision to make car-drivers under
the age of 25 responsible for the first
£25 of any claim has not come before
its time so far as insurance companies
are concerned. It is unlikely, though,
that it will pull them out of the mire into
which they have been driven.
Today, in nearly every country of the
world, motor vehicle insurance business
is a losing game. Very few insurance
companies can consistently claim that
this side of their activities is profitable.
Figures on loss ratios for Australian
companies are closely guarded. A
general idea of the world trend may be
obtained from results of British insurance
companies published in “The Post
Magazine and Insurance Monitor”, a
weekly journal of happenings in the
insurance world.
Listing the 1962 results of 98 com-
panies engaged in motor insurance, the
“Post” arrives at an average loss of 1.6
p.c. on premium income and claims out-
goings. Some of the more pertinent
details are significant. The giant Com-
mercial Union group lost £stg3,l 10,621,
paying out 71.3 p.c. of its premiums on
claims. Commission and expenses left it
9.2 p.c. in the red.
Phoenix lost £5tg1,683,635 after pay-
ing out 70 p.c. on claims. Total loss was
10.6 p.c.
The percentage of premiums paid out
on claims in Australia is believed to be
between 70 and 75 p.c., to which is
added between 30 and 35 p.c. for agents’
commission, administration, etc. It’s a
hard job to break even, let alone show a
profit.
It is for this reason that several of
the insurance companies The Bulletin
interviewed said that they didn't want
motor insurance business. But they
keep it: “To keep faith with clients”,
“Because it's good public relations”, and
“To get other business”.
Greater vehicle population, higher
powered cars and an irresponsible ele-
ment among drivers under the age of
25 are having a disastrous effect on re-
sults of motor sections of insurance com-
panies. Figures from the NSW Depart-
ment of Motor Transport show there is
no sign of a downturn in the number of
accidents. The situation is similar
throughout Australia.
For the year ended June, 1964, there
were 56,917 accidents on NSW roads, in
which 974 people were killed and 25,662
injured. Contrast this with the previous
year, when there were 53,931 accidents
in which 894 people died and 24,580
were injured. Of these accidents, 34.5
p.c. were attributable to drivers under
25, although they held only 18.1 p.c. of
the licences on issue.
The £25 excess tariff insurance com-
panies have applied to drivers under 25
will apply from November 1 this year.
It will not be removable as is the present
£lO excess imposed on all age groups,
which can be made inapplicable by an
extra premium payment. The £25
excess means the driver under 25 will
have to pay the first £25 damage whether
or not he was responsible. If the vehicle
is damaged while parked, stolen and not
recovered, burned out, or anything else
the under-25 driver will still be liable
for the first £25.
As a further incentive to safer driving,
the Tariff companies have increased no-
claim bonuses on comprehensive policies.
After the first claim-free year a discount
of 20 p.c. is applicable, after the second
25 p.c., after the third 33? p.c., and the
fourth 40 p.c. This applies to all age
groups.
Insurance companies The Bulletin
interviewed refused to be quoted for
reasons best known to themselves. How-
ever, the head of one large company
said he felt the £25 excess would have a
sobering effect on drivers under 25. He
believed the increasing number of road
accidents was due to “more cars on
the road, increasing power under the
bonnet, advertisements by car manu-
facturers as to how fast their cars will
travel and car names such as Thunder-
bird and Fury, the sort of names that
appeal to the young and foolish. They
don’t have the experience or the respon-
sibility to control them properly. We
have had to take the step of applying
the excess, not only because they have
more accidents but because they hit
harder and faster.
“The average cost of repairs to a car
driven by an under-25 involved in an
accident is £7O, yet in all the other age
groups combined the average is only
£44. The majority of under-25s are
inexperienced drivers. Because they are
inexperienced they must come in the
class of bad drivers and bad insurance
risks. But just because they are under-
-25 does not mean that all of them are
bad drivers.
“People try to justify the greater num-
ber of accidents among drivers in this
age group by saying they are on the
road for greater periods of time and
drive farther. It is obvious that the
longer they are on the road the more
prone they are to accidents. Can any-
one reasonably suggest that a car which
is garaged all day should pay as much as
a car that is on the road all day?”
Taking into consideration all age
groups, however, the director said motor
vehicle insurance was bad business be-
cause of low premiums, expensive claims
and the continually increasing cost of
repairs. Added to this there are un-
known liabilities, particularly with the
third party insurance, where one settle-
ment for damages could total more than
all the premiums collected over a period.
Solutions to these problems are not
easy. Companies may increase pre-
miums and excesses; claims quickly
catch up. Some have given serious con-
sideration to reducing the agents’ present
10 p.c. commission in order to keep
more premium income in the business.
The agents strongly resist any such sug-


*
V
*5
%
X
IS
The scintillating brilliance of the "City of
Light" is matched, if not surpassed by
Houghton White Burgundy, "the Wine of
the Golden West".
HOUGHTON WHITE BURGUNDY ... the
"right" wine . . . eminently right for your
entire meal.
PRODUCED AND BOTTLED IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
gestion, saying they, too, have to cope
with increased costs.
An enormous headache for insurance
companies are third party claims, especi-
ally those for personal injury where there
is virtually no limit on the amount
awarded. One company said; “A trend is
being set towards huge claims, some of
which are out of all proportion to a
reasonable settlement.
“Juries are becoming more sympathetic
all the time and they seem to regard
third party insurance funds as a bottom-
less pit with unlimited resources. But now
that the precedent has been set it is likely
to snowball and assume even more un-
realistic proportions. And there is nothing
we can do about it other than refuse to
write the policy. We did not want it in
the first place but when a client, whom
you might be insuring against fire, theft
and life as well as his car, asks for third
party insurance cover, what can you do?”
An appeal for motor insurance in
Australia to be based on the American
system of rating came from one com-
pany, whose business is about 50 p.c.
car insurance. Although Australian
insurance companies have not fared as
badly as their overseas counterparts,
unless our system was radically altered
the time was not far off when they would
find themselves in similar straits, this
company stated.
“The American system of rating is
based broadly on the value of the car,
the cost of repairs to individual parts,
its potential, and the area in which it is
to be used. There is no comprehensive
policy in America. The owner must
take out separate policies for each risk.
“I don’t think it would become as
complicated in Australia as it is in
America, because of the enormous
amount of constant statistical research
that must be carried out to make it
effective. But certainly we will see a
more equitable system of premium
charging. Take, for instance, the wind-
screen of a 1959 Chevrolet. To replace
it in Australia costs about £l3O, yet the
car’s market value is roughly the same
as a recent model Holden whose wind-
screen costs only about £2O to £3O. The
big disparity in repair and replacement
costs must be taken into account here.”
A word of warning to the driver. If
the American system of rating is intro-
duced in Australia he is likely to pay
considerably more. The director worked
out for The Bulletin the cost of com-
prehensively insuring a Buick (compar-
able with a Holden) in the city of New
York (whose traffic would be roughly
on a par with Sydney’s). He came up
with a grand total of 597 dollars, or
£A265. Even this enormous premium
does not afford the same cover as a
comprehensive Australian policy inclu-
ding third party.
For this sum the driver would be limi-
ted in third party cover to a total of
20,000 dollars (£A8500) of which no
more than 10,000 dollars (£A4250) can
be paid to one person. Property damage
cover is limited to 10,000 dollars. On
a policy of this sort there is a 50-dollar
“reducible”, or excess, as it is called in
Australia. To remove this excess costs
four times the premium.
One of the major causes of the in-
creasing expense of accident claims is
labor and construction. An automotive
engineer who studied the labor-construc-
tion problem found that over the last
three years the cost of labor has in-
creased 15 p.c. “On cars constructed
on the monocoque principle (basically,
without a chassis) the cost of labor has
increased 15 p.c. The cost of labor in
repairs to cars constructed on the semi-
monocoque principle has increased 10
p.c.
“But on larger cars constructed on
both principles labor costs have increased
171 p.c. And because of these systems
of construction, not only the cost of
labor but in some cases the cost of parts
has risen sharply. On one make of car
the front suspension once cost £27.
Now it is £4B. Windscreens as well are
a very pricey replacement.”


1
w t
c..
m
k
m
-
A>>
* %
why do you
work...
save...
plan?
Is it because you want for your family and for your-
self security, comfortable living standards, freedom
from financial worry?
An A.M.P. FAMILY SECURITY CHECK-UP
enables you to see your family’s financial future
realistically—to check what you need, what you have,
what you can have. You will make some important
calculations and get some all-important answers.
A
FOUR POINT r ~ '"i
FAMILY SECURITY
check-up ll:
Your A.M.P. man knows, from training and
experience, how to help you—
Q Check the facts related to your present family and
financial position.
© Check the extent of your needs what would be
required if your family had to live without you
what you will require on retirement or to take
advantage of long service leave.
e Check to find if the provisions you have made are
adequate.
A If they are not, your A.M.P. man will show you a
v family security plan tailor-made to your precise
needs and circumstances.
An A.M.P. Family Security Check-Up costs you nothing but a
little of your time—involves you in no obligation except to those
you love. All you have to do is to call in your A.M.P. man or
call the nearest A.M.P. Office.
AUSTRALIA’S
NO.l
LIFE OFFICE
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE.
Offices in cities and towns throughout Australia and New Zealand
and in the United Kingdom.
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by assets approaching £700,000,000 which the Society
seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.
Z 218 B


Here’s why I appointed Perpetual Trustee
as executor of my Wi11...
These days you’ll find very few people with the knowledge and qualifi-
cations so necessary to administer an estate and to carry out the terms
of the Will.
That’s why I decided to discuss my Will with one of Perpetual’s senior
officers before appointing an executor. It didn’t take long for me to
see the advantages of appointing the Company to handle my Estate.
For instance, Perpetual’s experts in taxation, finance and real estate
management personally look after these aspects of your Estate.
Perpetual can act as executor of your Will, either alone or jointly with
a relative or friend. You’re invited to call and discuss the planning of
your Will.
A booklet outlining the Company’s many services is available now. Ask
Perpetual today for your free copy.
PBRPE
T R USTEE COMPANY LIMITED
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. TELEPHONE 2 0377
Offices at Newcastle, Wollongong, Orange, and Tamworth.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA) LTD.
M.L.C. BUILDING, PETRIE STREET, CANBERRA, A.C.T.
"put your Trust in perpetual
MARKET POINTERS
Some Delayed Action
The Budget and Reserve Bank combination
rPHE generating effects of the last
Federal Budget and now the latest
Reserve Bank action to restrict credit
could have a cumulative action which
may not be translated into definable
figures until early in 1965.
With buoyant results behind them,
however, most companies must face up
to the current climate of more difficult
credit, increased imports, higher taxes
and, most important of all, difficulties
in the labor market.
It is repetition, therefore, to point
out that trading conditions should be-
come more competitive and chip away
at profit margins.
The companies which are well esta-
blished and are expanding steadily, how-
ever, invariably prove the safest con-
veyance during such a testing period.
★ ★ ★
A Cl and BHP, for example, although
likely to suffer in any general mar-
ket weakness, must be solid holding for
the long term investor.
David Jones, Myers and Grace Bros
are the sort of stocks worth picking up
in any general market shakeout, because
they enjoy tremendous support when
the market becomes buoyant again. Also,
it has been proved in the past that the
leading retailers which have diversified
into the suburbs manage to achieve good
figures even in the more difficult periods.
★ ★ ★
is an old adage in stock market
circles that a company on a low
dividend rate can always go up but the
company on 15 or 20 p.c. is highly
vulnerable to a fall. It has been proved
many times over.
Looking at Petersville’s record —pre-
viously Peters (Vic.) —the dividend
rose happily from 6 and 8 p.c. in the
early days but, after teaching 15 p.c.
in 1947, slumped to 10 p.c. in 1952. It
recovered again to 12 p.c. in 1953 and
again to 1954's 15 p.c., which was held
until 1963. Last years 121 p.c. was
barely covered.
One way or another, the chairman
(Mr Christensen) believes that share-
holders won’t go wrong at today’s prices.
If profits rise this year to the extent
of the £300,000 written-off stocks last
year, higher market prices will be justi-
fied.
★ ★ ★
"O.h.p.’s increase in its interim dividend
from 9d. to 10 d. per share is not
necessarily the prompting of Mr A. Shep-
herd, the company’s largest individual
shareholder, who startled everyone at
the recent annual meeting by requesting
the company to raise the dividend rate
to 10 p.c. (2s. a share ) and make a
one-for-four bonus issue.
The management, however, now must
be more conscious of shareholders’ feel-
ings, especially in view of the criticism
that the April, 1962, debenture issue
apparently was unnecessary since the
funds are still held in Commonwealth
bonds yielding far less than the 7 p.c.
interest rate being paid on the deben-
tures.
A fact sometimes overlooked in
B.H.P.’s policy is its fear that persis-
tent shareholder advantages via the share
market could encourage inordinate buy-
ing from overseas, whose buying capac-
ity could transfer ownership in a very
short time.


RANK
ft ,
m r
; At*.
3*
HL; irl
.
m
■
TIME LAGGIN’P
■:
:u - : $
RENT VOLKSWAGEN!
Get the feel behind the wheel and
drive yourself KAYS-Volkswagen.
Enjoy all V.W.’s special features
plus KAYS up-to-date, instant
booking and delivery service.
KAYS —the all -Austr a I i a n
national car rental company-
offers non-franchise insurance
cover at only 10/- per day.
Km
RENT-A-CAR
Branches —and Volks! throughout Australia.
KRC 25 Daily rates vary in some States.
INVESTMENT SECTION
Myer as Strong as Ever
Cost control and rising sales
its usual practice, the
gigantic Myer Emporium announced
its 1963-64 profit last week without any
guide either to the amount deductible
for outside shareholders or the size of
any capital profit or loss. These items
will remain unknown until the annual
report is released, around October 19.
Unsatisfactory as this is, we can do
nought but accept the fact for the pre-
sent and remember that the ensuing
comments may lose or gain a little
weight once the exact position is known.
Profit before these two items rose
from £4,748,845 to a new record of
£5,277,161. Last year, outside share-
holders’ interests totalled £618,126 and
capital profits £19,079, thus reducing the
profit left for normal shareholders to
£4,111,640, or 31.4 p.c. on capital after
preference charges—ample cover for the
16| p.c. dividend, which will be con-
tinued.
It is of considerable significance, and
a feather in the cap of the Myer organi-
sation, that this 11.1 p.c. profit increase
was attained from a sales increase of
only 6.4 p.c.—from £114,353,433 to
£121,696,053. At a time when costs,
wages, etc., are rising, this achievement
seems not very far short of amazing.
Whether it can be maintained in the
current year is another matter. In the
interim report earlier this year, directors
attributed an “improved'’ half-yearly
profit mainly to a “careful control over
expenses”. If such control continues to
be exercised, as it undoubtedly will be,
Myer's should go on setting this excel-
lent example to industry generally and
retailers in particular, most of whom
have been moaning about increased
costs.
The final item of note arising from
last week's announcement is the 6.4 p.c.
sales increase, because it does not com-
pare favorably with the 10 p.c. increase
scored in 1962-63 and the 17 p.c. of
1961-62. The fact that 1963-64 has sup-
posedly been generally more buoyant
than those two years adds to the serious-
ness of the position. However, two
factors combine to greatly reduce the
unencouraging nature of the smaller
sales lift. Perhaps they eliminate any
cause for concern altogether. This is
something on which directors would do
well to enlighten shareholders.
First, the Miranda Fair shopping
centre was the group’s only new outlet
of note started in 1963-64. And it did
not trade until the second six months.
This compares with two new stores at
Gordon (NSW) and Toowoomba (Qld)
which came into operation in 1962-63.
The big 17 p.c. increase in 1961-62
would have been largely attributable to
the acquisition of Farmer's and Western
Stores.
The second point is even more impor-
tant. According to the Commonwealth
Bureau of Census and Statistics, retail
sales in Australia (excluding motor
vehicles, parts, petrol, etc.) for 1.963-64
rose in value by 5.5 p.c. The Myer
sales rise of 6.4 p.c., therefore, shows
that the company is actually gaining, as
far as its share of the market is con-
cerned.
Twelve years on
Oydney retailer David Jones Ltd after
a year of “consolidation and expan-
sion” has recorded its twelfth turnover
and profit increase according to the
balance sheet, although again sales are
not revealed.
Shareholders would like to know on
what sales the record profit of
£2,081,256 was earned but the company
withdrew this privilege some years ago.
The balance sheet shows earning rate
would have been higher but for the
larger tax provision necessary under the
new company rates.
While the result included 17 months’
profits for the two North Queensland
stores of Bolands Pty and Marsh and
Webster it takes into account only six
months of Foy and Gibson (WA) Ltd,
thus presenting a fairly accurate 12
months’ picture.
Factors * Asset Sales
STHhe first concrete doubts on Factors’
ability to repay the £1,820,000
“recovery” loan from CAGA were cast
last week. Until then, £420,000 had
been paid off, reducing the sum out-
standing to £1,400,000. It is believed
that most of these payments came largely
from the revenue of Floleproof NZ, the
principal operating subsidiary and in-
come earner for the group.
The news that two Holeproof subsi-


A
- ■ V: • '
H
m
m
Spans Australia
We are one of the biggest freight organisations in Australia, travelling an immense network of roads,
with pick-up and delivery at most points. Ansett Freight Express really spans Australia, nation wide.
We like to be exact about your goods. We take care of them as if they were our own.
Whatever your transport requirement road, rail, sea or air; local, interstate or overseas,
you can’t do better than depend upon Ansett Freight Express.
We are willing and our prices are right. Perhaps that’s why we are one of the largest in the business.
ANSETT FREIGHT EXPRESS p JI
A MEMBER. COMPANY OF ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
PERTH 24 4926
MELBOURNE 68 0541
SYDNEY 67 0533
ADELAIDE 45 5337
CANBERRA 9 0193
ALICE SPRINGS 777
BRISBANE 47 1481
DEV ON PORT 2 2659
HOBART 8 4944
DARWIN 2957
NEWCASTLE 2 2155
K>35


DEBENTURE STOCK ISSUE
(PER ANNUM 1 0-1 2 YEARS)
6|%
8-9 YEARS
61%
6-7 YEARS
5i%
3 YEARS
AND SHORTER TERMS
Applications can only proceed on the
form enclosed in the Prospectus which
may be obtained from—
® Any branch of the
Commercial Bank of Australia Limited
® Any recognised Stockbroker
General Credits Ltd.,
277 William St., Melbourne. 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. 61 8581
Branches throughout Australia.
Brokers to the issue
lAN POTTER & CO.
3846/B
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C.B.A.
diaries have now been sold gives cause
for concern. Has the group reached the
stage where asset realisation is necessary
to keep payments going to CAGA? The
sale price of W. H. Bond, canister
manufacturer and tin printer, remains
undisclosed at the time of going to Press.
So, too, does the price received for the
crown seal section and plant of the
Colonial Ammunition Co.
If these two sales are being made to
help reduce the CAGA debt, then the
outstanding amount should now go
below £1 million. According to reports,
W. H. Bond alone cost the Factors’
group between £NZ3OO,OOO and
£NZSOO,OOO when it was originally
acquired.
However, evidence exists to suggest
that the sa i e s may have little reflection,
or none at all> on Factors ’ abiHty t 0
repay the loan. First, a high 11 p.c.
interest rate is being charged, so quick
reduction would be very beneficial,
Second, the fact that Factors may still
owe money on its original purchase of
Bond adds to the thought that the inter-
est saving could well outweigh the
advantages of retaining any profits
earned if the sales had not been made.
Last, Holeproof recently took deli-
very of new textile machinery worth
£300,000. This move was part of a
plan to expand the company’s woollen
and nylon divisions, a plan which un-
doubtedly needs cash support, especially
as installation will not be finished until
mid-November. As Factors would ob-
viously find further loan money difficult
to raise, an asset realisation may have
been the only way to finance the expan-
sion project.
Email Sparks Ahead
a slight profit drop last year,
Email Ltd is recording higher sales
and profits in the current year, say direc-
tors.
Orders in hand continue to be at a
higher level than the corresponding
period last year. Email, along with
other well-established electrical equip-
ment-makers, will undoubtedly turn in
a much improved profit at the end of
this year. So the shares at Bs. 9d. do
not seem unduly high. \
There they yield 8.7 p.c. from the
10 p.c. dividend (interim is 5 p.c.) paid
for the last five years.
WJ Treads Carefully
a profit drop and an earning
rate adversely affected by a one-for-
four issue during the year, directors of
W. J. Manufacturing Co. Ltd, industrial
laminates maker, are maintaining the
10 p.c. dividend with a 5 p.c. final.
Profit dropped from £55,503 to
£41,236 and is arrived at after excluding
a dividend received from a subsidiary
out of a capital profit of £17,376
achieved during the year. Earning rate
declines from 20.9 to 13.6 p.c. The
much smaller tax provision of £2842
(last year £22,775) stemmed from tax-
free profits, an advantage directors say
will again be available during the current
year. Depreciation at £14,477 is £4117
higher than the previous year’s allow-
ance.
In the report accompanying the pre-
liminary profit statement, directors say
the company achieved the highest sales
in its history. Profit was affected by
non-recurring expenditure and produc-
tion delays caused by moving plant from
the Cremorne premises to the Brookvale
area. Provision also had to be made


fitMi 4
b ** so^b7 d
y m
His cigarette, too,
has a proud pedigree
Benson & Hedges Special Filter was once available only on blue-ribbon jet
flights between London and New York. Today, the cigarette has travelled,
and you too can enjoy its excellence. Benson & Hedges Special Filter, in the
elegant gold packet, is the right cigarette when only the best will do. And
isn’t that all the time?
Bensonmd Hedges
8H39.3.64
for the balance of production plant to be
moved during the current year.
A heartening note: “Currently the sales
for the first three months are in excess
of the figure achieved in the same period
last year. All departments are operating
profitably.”
Then a warning: “As forecast last
March, pressure on profit margins,
through imports and increased wages
and raw material costs, continues. Cor-
rective measures implemented should
become evident in the current year’s tra-
ding.” No doubt it is because of this
that the market is paying little attention
to the 10s. shares, leaving them at
19s. 9d. where the yield is 5.3 p.c.
Watch Tax Discrepancy
John Sackville shareholders should be
wary of attaching any significance
to the record 1963-64 result announced
by the company last week. Profit rose
by £30,000, from £138,000 to £168,000,
but it was after a £56,000 reduction in
the tax provision from £95,000 to
£39,000. Directors of the Melbourne-
based clothing manufacturer gave no
reason for the tax discrepancy and did
not indicate whether the lower charge
would continue next year. Perhaps this
has been left until the annual report or
the annual meeting.
Such low tax can't go on indefinitely.
Without it, profits this year would have
been below the 1962-63 level. Such a
state would actually have been right in
line with the directors’ interim report—
lower turnover and profit in the six
months to December 31.
Despite all this, with earning rate now
up from 22.5 p.c. to 27.3 p.c., a con-
siderable setback will be necessary be-
fore the steady 12i- p.c. dividend is
endangered.
Handsome Hallett
HThe SA manufacturer of clay bricks
and roofing tiles, Hallett Brick, con-
tinues to line its shareholders’ pockets
most handsomely. The latest move is
a one-for-two par issue of ss. shares.
The existing scrip was collecting 17s. 6d.
on the market before the issue announce-
ment was made.
Prices have been at this level since the
end of August, when a profit jump from
£20,000 in the maiden nine months of
1962-63 to £158,000 in the latest year
was revealed. Earning rate was a buoy-
ant 31 p.c. and directors said the brick
demand had not slackened so far in the


1964
1963
1962
1961
1960
£
£
£
£
£
Profit before
taxation
540,691
499,982
359,632
258,086
258,424
Income tax
193,637
169,987
124,878
107,297
114,794
Profit after
taxation
347,054
329,995
234,754
150,789
143,630
Dividends paid
167,994
144,887
144,687
135,607
96,767
Dividend rate
ordinary shares ..
10%
10%
10%
10%
10%
Issued and
paid-up capital ..
2,000,000
1,539,875
1,536,875
1,535,875
982,250
Reserves and
unappropriated
profits
752,475
435,591
242,836
174,429
166,209
Interest paid
1,080,990
1,026,555
782,913
747,068
465.053
Debenture stock ....
10,113,786
7,920,282
6,890,315
6,013,841
4,566,464
Unsecured notes
and deposits
4,533,628
6,868,771
4,465,516
3,095,282
4,735,325
Debtors’ balances
outstanding
19,370,026
19,210,988
15,240,368
13,178,182
12,494,846
COMPANY MEETING
AUSTRALIAN EQUITY CORPORATION LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria
Registered Office: 365 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne
Chairman's Address delivered at the
Annual General Meeting of the Company,
sth October, 1964
The Annual Report and Accounts for
the year ended 30th June, 1964, which
has been in your hands for some days
now, shows that your Company made a
profit for the year of £347,054 after
taxation.
During a year in which intense com-
petition prevailed in our industry, over-
head costs continued to rise and the rate
of company income-tax was increased,
the profit must be considered satisfactory.
On page two of the Annual Report,
you will see some interesting financial
highlights of the Company’s growth over
the past five years and, in particular, I
direct your attention to the substantial
increase in the Company’s reserves.
These reserves increased from £435,591
as at June, 1963, to £752,475 as at June,
1964. Of the increase of £316,884
during the year, an amount of £178,847
is retained profits and the balance of
£138,037 was contributed by the pay-
ment of a share premium of l/6d. per
share on the 1,840,500 ordinary shares
issued to Commercial & General Accept-
ance Limited.
The total amount of reserves and
unappropriated profits, namely £752,475,
is equal to 44% of the ordinary paid-up
capital of £1,700,000, the remainder of
the Company’s paid-up capital being
£300.000 of 7% preference shares. This
provides the ordinary shares of your
Company with an asset backing of 7/Id.
which has been attained in a period of
nine years of operation.
During the year under review, when
outstandings remained reasonably con-
stant, total monthly instalment collec-
tions amounted to £12.6 millions as
compared with £ll.l millions during the
financial year 1962/63, indicating a re-
duced average loan period compared
with the previous financial year. There
is every indication that this buoyant rate
of collections will continue during the
ensuing months.
As previously reported, this Company
commenced diversification into the
more secured classes of business
approximately four years ago and has
gradually increased the percentage of
secured advances and, at 30th June,
1964, more than 60% of the Company’s
outstandings is covered by first and
second mortgages and debenture securi-
ties.
On page twelve of the Annual Report,
a list of subsidiary companies is pub-
lished. Of these companies, quite a
number were acquired during the
normal course of trading in the financial
year under review and contained pre-
acquisition losses and accounts receivable
which were purchased at advantageous
prices. It is not proposed that these
companies be retained after all benefits
have accrued to your Company.
During the first three months of the
new financial year, the volume of
business written has increased by more
than 20% as compared with the same
period in the 1963/64 financial year
and the acceptance of additional sound
business by your Company is limited
only by the availability of additional
funds through our public borrowing
programme.
ALAN COFFEY
Chairman of Directors.
Financial Highlights as presented on page 2, Annual Report, 1964:


352
For 2'- plus postage
IMPROVED
REGISTERED POST
now gives insurance up to £5O
The Improved Registered Post now provides a higher
and more extensive insurance cover for a flat 2/- fee.
it applies to all mail in Australia that is adequately
packed except perishables, liquids and
exceptionally fragile articles.
Details are in the folder available
at all post offices.
AUSTRALIAN POST OFFICE
EES
RP4.
current year. During August the shares
had moved up from 14s. 6d.
The final dividend of 6£ p.c., making
104 p.c. for the year (prospectus predic-
ted only 7 p.c.), indicated that 12i p.c.
may be the rate in future years.
Such may not be the case immediately.
To start with, the 1964 profit saw the
benefit of a tax saving on investment
allowance. More important, the latest
issue, combined with a recent share
placement, will eventually lift paid capi-
tal from £500,000 at June 30 last to
around £BOO,OOO. As the company’s
expansion plans necessitate funds which
will take “some time” to earn reason-
able profits, earning rate may slip back
this year.
Still, it must be admitted that a con-
siderable slip would be necessary before
a 12i p.c. was endangered. Again, it
must not be forgotten that the new
shares are payable in instalments only,
starting in March next year and ending
in February, 1966. Having regard to
these factors, all looks well in the Hallett
camp.
Active Surge ants
After a vigorously opposed premium
issue during the year, Sargeants
Engineering, of Brisbane, earned a
record profit and is adding a 2i p.c.
bonus to the usual 15 p.c. dividend.
Capital was doubled by a one-for-one
issue of ss. shares at 10s. premium. A
body of major shareholders in April took
the case to the Supreme Court, claiming
the issue would dilute their equity in
the company. They were unsuccessful
in obtaining an injunction to restrain the
company from proceeding.
Latest profit is £97,386 for the year
to June 30, compared with £58,553 for
the previous year. It remained after an
almost doubled tax provision of £71,991
and £2007 higher depreciation at
£18,600.
Because of the issue, earning rate slips
back from 25.1 p.c. to 20.8 p.c., but if
the company continues to trade as it is
at present an almost complete recovery
could be expected at next balance date.
On Brisbane Stock Exchange the shares
are available for around 225.
Yarra Falls in the Mud
Tt is imperative that the directors of
Yarra Falls give shareholders the
fairest possible appraisal of the com-
pany's prospects for the current year
when the annual report is issued, and
at the annual meeting. Shareholders are
just not in the position at present to
make an even remotely accurate guess
as to the future of their investment.
The 1963-64 profit crash, from
£192,000 to £5,789, and the dividend
omission, although foreshadowed at last
year’s annual meeting and in the interim
report, were nevertheless stunning.
Dividends have been paid every year
since 1921.
Under normal circumstances share-
holders would find it difficult enough to
get any idea of 1964-65 prospects be-
cause of the complexity of factors which
produced the result turnover de-
cline, lower output, rise in wool prices,
import competition, internal reorganisa-
tion at Hanro, etc. Now that a compli-
cated swap-cash deal is to be executed
with Felt and Textiles, their chances of
ascertaining the future, without fair and
accurate indications from directors, is
impossible.
The various swappings to go on be-
tween the companies, and the £300,000
payment to Felts on ‘‘extended terms”
have been detailed by the daily Press.


[INVEST IN
£
oa
4
5555 S
It
lit
Uii B
Debenture Stock
G\°fo
3 years
7^o
4 years
6 years
%
P-3
8 years and over
Unsecured Deposit Notes
AiVo
3 months
s<3fe
6 months
5!<70
12 months
Gi°/6
2 years
7%
p.a.
3 years
Obtain a Prospectus from
HOW TO INVEST:
• Any Stockbroker.
• £ ny .. t ? rai P ch , . of the National Bank of
Australasia Limited.
• Any store or office of Waltons Limited.
• Waltons Credit Corporation Limited, Box
3875, G.P.0., Sydney.
Applications must be lodged on the appropriate form issued with the Prospectus
* Paid-up Capita! £3,500,000
Incorporated
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
There is no need to repeat them here,
especially as they mean nothing to the
average shareholder. The only real
guidance for shareholders so far came
in a joint statement from the two
boards. It said the specialisation result-
ing from the moves would increase
efficiency and eventually give substantial
benefits to both companies. Of course
they didn't add “we hope” to the end
of the statement.
The question is, even if these moves
are successful, will they be of sufficient
benefit to restore Yarra Falls to its
former profit status?
Generous Issue
HPhe directors of Kilndried Timber In-
'*■ dustries, based in Launceston, must
be expecting extensive success from their
recent expansionary moves for them to
make a share issue under the very
generous terms just announced. In the
first ordinary capital move since listing
nine years ago, shareholders will collect
one bonus share for every two they hold
on October 23.
This is not all. Directors expect to
pay 10 p.c. dividends on the increased
capital. This is equal to 15 p.c. on pre-
bonus capital. Since 1955, dividend has
been I2i p.c., so, in effect, shareholders
will be collecting a higher dividend
cheque every year. The issue will be
made from a revaluation of shares in
subsidiary companies.
Earlier this year, £lOO,OOO in prefer-
ence shares was raised to finance the
purchase of extra Tasmanian timber
areas. Prior to this, the freeholds of
several large and valuable timbered areas
in the midland and southern districts of
the State were acquired. Directors say
these will materially increase resources
and boost production.
It is sincerely to be hoped that the
bonus moves prove to be more than just
a peak in the company’s fluctuating his-
tory and that future profits can ade-
quately service the new capital. Prefer-
ence dividend will be deductible from
the ordinary earnings from now on.
Earning rate in 1960 was 46.7 p.c. It
crumbled through from 33.5 p.c. and
18.5 p.c. to a miserable 8.6 p.c. in
1962-63 before recovering to a boom-
ing 32.7 p.c. in the latest 1963-64 year.
No Miller s Tale
Shareholders of R. W. Miller (Hold-
ings) Ltd will have to content them-
selves with an increased dividend after a
higher profit for the time being, before
they can find out how it was earned.
In a remarkably brief announcement,
the company blandly informed stock
exchanges that profit rose £65,213 to
£668,979 after tax of £409,692 (last year
£456,456) and depreciation of £279,171
(£244,827). Dividend goes from 8 to 10
p.c.
Surely shareholders, especially those
who stood by the company during its
shipping crisis, deserved more details.
One More Pastoralist
prices for Australia’s primary
produce have enabled London-based
pastoralist, Australian Mercantile Land
and Finance Co. Ltd, to record its best
profit since the record 1951 result and
lift dividend from 15 to 18 p.c.
Profit rose 34.5 p.c. from £5tg420,524
to £5tg567,477 and earning rate goes
from 18.8 p.c. to 24.8 p.c. It remains
after £5tg387,913 tax (last year
£5tg265,712) and an unstated deprecia-
tion provision (£5tg94,482). In addition,
the company made a £5tg95,154 profit
on the sale of station property
(£stgloB,9oo).


SPECIAL ANALYSIS
Conducted behalf JCN ’*^64°"
• TCN 9 Monday to Friday 6.00 to 6.30
Viewing TCN v
ALL
IF AM LIES
CHILD
people
55
E N
REN
25
TOTAL
16
to
to
S total
99
to
AO
to
25
99
5A
16
39
to
2A
to
287
to
876
5A
383
39
273
Ik
56
68
100
A 9
220
23
61
78
58
i t families or people
Between 6.00 and 6.30 p.m. Monday -Friday
876 000 different people
are sold on TCN 9 in Sydney
at least 2i times a week-
a nett cumulative rating of 5
p j Willoughby* 43-0
Studio » „ »-!«*'■
““iIS-R- «• ‘ 3M “'
TCN
1


SECURITY ANALYSIS
The Tale of Two Chemists
Alfred Lawrence undervalued against Keith Harris
I last wrote about Alfred Law-
” rence Holdings Ltd—almost exactly
two years ago—the shares were standing
at 9s. 6d. and I suggested that they
would be good buying up to 12s. Today
the shares stand at 13s. 6d., which is
about the highest price they have reached
since the present holding company was
formed on a basis that gave the share-
holders of Alfred Lawrence and Co. a
bonus issue in the ratio of l-for-4.
It may well be that this rise in price
was in anticipation of yet another bonus
issue. As mentioned above, the last
“issue” occurred in December, 1959 or
thereabouts. Before that a one-for-two
bonus issue was made in September,
1954. Some observers are willing to use
such slender evidence to assume that
another issue is due in 1964, on the
assumption that such an issue will be
made every five years.
Students of numerology might take
heart from the fact that 2 and 3 and
multiples thereof occur with some fre-
quency in Alfred Lawrence’s dividend
record. From 1940 onwards the com-
pany paid a 10 p.c. dividend for four
years, a 12i p.c. dividend for six years,
then a 15 p.c. dividend for six years.
To conclude the history of Alfred Law-
rence and Co. up to the time that Alfred
Lawrence Holdings was formed, an 18
p.c. dividend was paid for two years,
followed by a 20 p.c. dividend for 1959
and 1960.
With the formation of the holding
company, the pattern seems to have
changed a little. The repetition can now
best be seen in the half-yearly payments.
A 4i p.c. dividend was paid for the first
six half-years and up to date we have
had three half-yearly payments of 5 p.c.
On this basis, the next increase in the
annual rate will occur in 1965/6, when
the rate will go up to 10J p.c. It must
be assumed that better increases than
this are expected of the company, be-
cause at this rate the growth factor will
be less than 3 p.c. per annum—about
2.66 p.c. to be arithmetically meticulous
—and it could well be that this rate of
increase will not be sufficient to keep
pace with inflation.
In the previous article a schedule
showing ten years’ earnings and divi-
dends from a constant investment was
given. This disclosed growth rates of
15 p.c. per annum in earnings and
18 p.c. per annum in dividends. The
table for the last ten years including a
share reconstruction in 1960 is as
follows:
No. of Shares Dividend Income Earnings
£ £
1955 100 16.25 44.9
1956 150 27.00 43.9
1957 150 27.00 54.6
1958 150 30.00 54.6
1959 150 30.00 57.8
1960 3000 63.75 57.8
1961 3000 67.50 79.2
1962 3000 67.50 83.5
1963 3000 71.25 84.8
1964 3000 75.00 95.4
These figures suggest that the rate of
growth in earnings has fallen to an
average of 10 p.c., while the rate of
growth in dividends has fallen only
slightly to 17 p.c. Clearly the dividend
growth rate of 17 p.c. is affected to a
marked extent by the 1960 bonanza,
which can hardly be expected to repeat
itself during say the next decade. But
as the rate of growth in earnings over
the last five years has been 11 p.c. per
annum approximately, there could be
every reason for expecting a continua-
tion of the 10 p.c. per annum increase in
earnings over the next ten years.
Judging again by past performance,
there is every reason to expect the divi-
dend payout to keep pace with the earn-
ings. So a growth rate of 10 p.c. per
annum on average could be expected in
dividends. This would mean that the
effective yield would be about 9 p.c. at
current prices of 13s. 6d., even if the
10 p.c. growth rate reduces to 3 p.c.
after ten years.
While these figures appear good by
themselves, it is necessary in almost all
investments to try to make some com-
parison with another company in a simi-
lar industry. In the case of Alfred
Lawrence the company which springs to
mind almost automatically is Keith Har-
ris and Co. Ltd. Because of the sub-
stantial issue made by Alfred Lawrence
in 1959 and the' effect that this had on
dividend income, it would perhaps be
unfair to Keith Harris to make a ten-
year comparison. I propose to choose
a five-year period, which will include
two bonus issues made by Keith Harris.
As the main interest is the probable
future growth rates, the comparison will
be made in index form as follows:
Earnings per share 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
Alfred Lawrence 100 137 145 147 165
Keith Harris 100 98 128 148 184
Dividend per share
Alfred Lawrence 100 106 1 06 112 118
Keith Harris 100 117 158 158 158
Profitability Ratio (a)
Alfred Lawrence 100 133 129 131 139
Keith Harris 100 91 96 103 117
Market Growth
Alfred Lawrence 100 90 90 110 136
Keith Harris 100 131 170 191 282
(a) Net profit before tax and depreciation to share-
holders' funds.
These figures indicate that so far as
earnings and profitability are concerned
Alfred Lawrence has matched Keith
Harris in growth, but it is lagging quite
considerably in dividend income growth
and market growth. So far as dividend
income is concerned, it would appear
at this point of time that Alfred Law-
rence will fall even further behind, be-
cause the 1964-5 dividend income of
Keith Harris will be lifted by 25 p.c.
following the proposed one - for - four
bonus issue. Furthermore, it must be
recognised that even after this issue the
dividend commitment would be covered
nearly 1.9 times by the 1963-4 earnings.
It may well be expected that the 1964-5
earnings will provide cover of more than
twice the dividend commitment. In
other words, Keith Harris has a much
greater potential for further dividend
increases (even if the rate of growth in
earnings is not maintained) than Alfred
Lawrence, whose current dividend com-
mitment is covered only 1.3 times by
1963-4 earnings.
In terms of current prices, Keith Har-
ris at around 41s. 6d. would show an
immediate dividend yield of 2.6 p.c. after
allowing for the proposed bonus issue
and an earnings yield of 5.1 p.c. To
achieve the same effective return as can
be expected from Alfred Lawrence, divi-
dends per share from Keith Harris will
need to increase at the average annual
compound rate of 15 p.c. for the next
ten years. In simpler terms, perhaps,
the dividend will need to quadruple in
ten years so far as Keith Harris is con-
cerned, whereas in the case of Alfred
Lawrence it will need only increase by
160 p.c.
The choice is clearly one of personal
opinion. At current levels I am inclined
to think that Alfred Lawrence is a little
undervalued in relation to Keith Harris.
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (£'000)
Year to June 30 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
Current assets 358 401 405 427 413
Current liabilities 147 176 164 216 198
Working capital 211 225 241 211 215
Fixed . assets 522 548 550 646 661
Investments — — — 2 5
733 773 791 859 881
Represented by:
Ordinary capital 700 700 700 753 753
Reserves 33 73 91 106 128
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES (£'000)
Depreciation 18 19 20 25 26
Taxation 37 ■ 54 52 55 64
Earnings 54 74 78 85 96
Ordinary dividend 58 63 63 72 75
Surplus (4) 11 15 13 21
Shillings
Earnings per share 0.40 0.53 0.55 0.56 0.63
Dividends per share 0.42 0.45 0.45 0.47 0.50
Percentages
Earnings yield 3.9 5.9 6.2 5.1 4.7
Dividend yield 4.3 5.0 5.0 4.3 3.7


l
LIQUEURS
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
CHERRY
The
perfect pair
for
perfect
entertaining
1
I) >
ULOV
Vodka
VODKA
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Milking Good Dividends
Croft Bank Dairies' sober security
rrHE slightly poorer result chalked up
A by Melbourne’s Croft Bank Dairies
Ltd during 1963-64 will be only tem-
porary. The current year should see a
recovery in the earning rate and a re-
establishment of the steady growth in
performance which has prevailed over
the last few years (see the accompanying
table). Then the 1965-66 term should
see further improvements on any gains
made in the current year. It may possibly
be the beginning of a new era of higher
profitability for the group.
What are the facts which give grounds
for these predictions? To start with, the
1963-64 result was lower for two main
reasons the higher company tax (with-
out which the result would have been
steady) and slightly increased operating
costs because of the higher basic wage
and its side effects. Both these items
should be offset in the current year by
increased revenue, seeing milk prices
rose in Melbourne as from October 1.
In the past, every time the Victorian
Milk Board inquiry granted a price
increase, Croft Bank managed to lift
profits or maintain them when operating
costs were increasing. Although the price
increase will apply for only nine months
of the financial year, and although
general operating costs seem likely to
keep rising (especially if the trade unions
manage to squeeze another wage rise
from the Arbitration Commission at the
hearing they are planning for early 1965),
two other factors should combine to help
the company score a recovery.
The first of these is the steady take-
over of smaller suburban dairies which
directors have embarked on in recent
months. Expansion in the milk game is
severely hampered by price control and
the zoning of the State into areas in
which each company can operate. So,
the only way to expand into other areas
is by takeover and, for this very reason,
the number of independent dairies in
Victoria is diminishing every year.
Back in May, the milk rounds of Mr
A. W. Cutts in Collingwood were
acquired. Then, early in July, the
rounds, plant and equipment of Mr
R. S. Daley in Richmond were bought.
His dairying group was one of Mel-
bourne’s oldest and one of the largest
private firms still operating. Distribution
is in Richmond, Hawthorn and Colling-
wood. The premises (not included in
the deal) were close to those of Croft
Bank’s only subsidiary, A. Oakes & Sons.
THhe most recent acquisition took place
A early in August. The rounds, plant,
equipment and book debts of I. S. L. &
E. K. Aberton, Hawthorn, came under
the Croft Bank wing. These buys added
to the company’s existing distribution
areas—from its pasteurising and bottling
plant in Northcote it retails through
branches at Coburg, St Albans, Greens-
borough, Brunswick, Melbourne proper,
Collingwood, Fitzroy and adjacent
suburbs. A. Oakes covers Richmond and
Clayton.
The second factor which should enable
recovery in the current year will also
extend the group’s areas considerably,
bring about economies and possibly spell
a new era for the organisation. This, of
course, is the proposed merger between
Croft Bank and its “twin”, Cranbourne.
As it will be some months before the
merger is completed, advantages will not
become fully apparent until 1965-66.
However, some gains will accrue in the
current year as there will be few, if any,
integration problems.
Croft Bank is to be the vehicle for
the merger, giving one of its shares for
each Cranbourne unit. The fact that
these two are “twins” will make any
integration easy. Croft has five directors,
Cranbourne the same five plus one. Both
have listed ss. shares which have con-
tinually been quoted at parallel levels
and on which shareholders have been
collecting 12i p.c. dividends. Croft was
listed in 1955, within a year of Cran-
bourne’s listing. Performance of the two
has remained very similar, year after
year.
Of course there is one big difference
the areas of distribution. From a
plant in East Malvern, Cranbourne dis-
tributes to Ashwood, Chadstone, Men-
tone, Cheltenham, Black Rock, Brighton
and Burwood. The new group will be
the third biggest in Melbourne (using
capital as the measure), after Metro-
politan Dairies and Model Dairy.
As a merger could have been executed
at any time over the past few years, the
fact that it has finally to happen is of
considerable significance. It highlights
the need for rationalisation in the in-
dustry, to reduce costs (especially of
distribution), and the fact that the two
have decided to protect each other from
takeover by the other two giants. Share-
holders should be seeing a fair-sized lift
in earning rates by 1965-66 as a result
of this merger and its accompanying
economies.
But what else does the future hold
for them? Croft Bank’s past history has
been a very steady one, with gradual
growth, good dividends and meagre
capital gain prospects. The only issue
has been a three-for-ten at par in 1955-
56. The future may prove more
lucrative.
At present, reserves are by no means
small. Their build-up has been the most
interesting feature of an otherwise
extremely sober series of balance sheets.
Asset revaluations have been non-existent
since listing. It seems that directors have
been inclined to pay generous dividends
over the years, rather than issue capital
and possibly reduce the only “average”
earning rates to lower levels.


ACCOUNTS SUMMARY
o
§
w
June 30
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
Current assets
85
81
76
94
115 1
Less current liabilities
167
156
179
179
193 |
Working capital
-82
-75
-103
-85
-781
Fixed assets
621
620
644
651
652
I
Investments
1
1
1
I
Intangibles
43
43
43
43
43
■
—
—
—
583
589
585
610
618
Ordinary capital
375
380
380
380
381
Loan capital
120
107
92
97
84 i
Reserves
88
102
113
133
153 '
—
—
—
—
583
589
585
610
618 ]
Depreciation
18
18
18
18
16
Tax
37
38
43
44
47 1
Net profit
56
58
59
68
65
Dividend
46
48
48
48
48
Surplus
10
10
11
20
17
Earning rate
15.0
15.2
15.6
17.8
16.9
Dividend rate
12£
m
12J
1 2\
12]j
Dividend yield (a)
6.3
8.1
6.5
4.6
4.2
High price (b)
11/3
9/-
11/3
HZ-
15/6
Low price (b)
(a) End August, when
(b) Calendar year.
7/7 7/2 8/9
results announced.
10/-
12/6
Why
- touch -
capital?
Machine Tools
Vehicle Fleets
P
Printing Machinery
v*:
%
Office Equipment
_ lease _
it
through
FCA
I
F.C.A.
LEASING
LIMITED,
LL.6
ADELAIDE:
F.C.A. Building, 15 Franklin Street 61 3781
MELBOURNE:
Union House, 51 Queen Street $1 3051
SYDNEY:
Anchor House, Cnr. George & Bridge Sts. 27 7003
BRISBANE:
F.C.A. Building, 195 Elizabeth Street 31 2861
PERTH:
M.L.C. Building, 171-177 St. Georges Tee. 21 3181
CANBERRA:
Fourth Floor, E.S. & A. Bank Big., Hobart PI. 4 0697
The sudden climb in earning rates in
1963 and 1964 from previous levels,
combined with the fact that dividends
have been kept steady and also that the
earnings could be in for substantial lifts
after the merger gives promise for a
share issue if the merger is successful.
Once earnings climb over 20 p.c., a share
issue could be made without endanger-
ing the normal 12i p.c. dividend.
At current prices of around 145., the
shares offer reasonable and secure
returns of 4.4 p.c. on any money laid
out, with a good chance for market gains
after the merger, a fair chance for a
share issue once profits reflect the full
benefits of the merger, and a possibility
of dividend increase if earnings rise, but
not to the extent which would permit a
share issue.
The accompanying table reflects Croft
Bank’s reputation as a stable company
paying good dividends. As previously
mentioned, balance sheets have been
extremely sober, with the exception of
the reserves build-up and, simultaneously,
the encouraging reductions in loan
capital. Steady increases in both current
assets and current liabilities have kept
working capital (or lack of it, which
doesn’t matter in this industry) fairly
level. Fixed asset growth has been slow
but sure. Intangibles could possibly be
written down instead of leaving them
alone altogether.
BUSHELLS INVESTMENTS LTD
The Brew of Leadership
T>esults of Bushells Investments Ltd,
the major supplier of tea and coffee
to the Australian market, for the 1964-
65 financial period will cover only a nine
months period, following a proposal to
change the balance date of the parent
company from June 30 to the end of
March to bring it in line with those of
subsidiaries. But profit for the period
should be considerably more than 75
p.c. of the £452,036 earned in 1963-64.
During the latest year, Bushells
absorbed a marked rise in all coffee
prices, because of its favorable stock
position, and did not increase its prices
until May.
In fact, the 1963-64 year'was not an
easy one for the company. It did well
to maintain its profit in the face of rising
overseas prices.
World prices for tea were fairly steady
except for the early months of 1964. The
Australian consumer faced increased
costs as a result. However, the Federal
Government removed the 3d. a lb import
duty in March to assist the economic
development of the tea - producing
countries, thereby saving the increase.
The reduced duty has been used to offset
the rise in prices.
Bushells has always enjoyed a high
premium on its shares since it joined the
Stock Exchange lists in 1958, when
shareholders, principally the Bushell
family, placed one-twelfth of the issued
capital of £1,704,499 in 20s. shares with
the investing public at 30s. 6d.
Bushells has a long and successful
history in the Australian tea industry.
In 1937 it set up a separate ooeration in
New Zealand.
In 1959-60, the hrst full year after
flotation, profit suffered a sharp setback
due to intense competition from a wide
range of instant coffee distributors.
Profit, even in the 1960 year, has
covered the steady 10 p.c. dividend, paid


ACCOUNTS
SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
Current assets
Less current
4264
4301
4131
4150
4444
liabilities
1638
2187
2168
1826
1720
Working capital
2626
2114
1963
2324
2724
Fixed assets
1694
2440
2900
2917
2843
4320
4554
4863
5241
5567
Represented by:
—
Capital
1704
1704
1704
1704
2136
Capital res.
1095
1095
1095
1095
668
Other res.
Outside share-
768
974
1222
1525
1774
holders
753
781
842
917
989
4320
4554
4863
5241
5567
Depreciation
102
117
143
185
225
Taxation
Outside
298
387
425
444
511
shareholders
56
87
99
107
107
Net profit
339
391
417
451
452
Sale of assets
2
—
2
Dr. 1
Dr. 1
Dividend
170
170
170
170
213
Surplus
171
221
249
280
238
Dividend p.c.
10
10
10
10
10
Earnings p.c.
19.9
23.0
24.5
26.5
21.2
Div. yield (a)
3.0
3.0
2.6
2.5
2.5
High price (b)
///-
77/-
81/-
82/6
95/-
Low price (b)
56/-
56/-
72/-
70/-
76/6
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY
(£NZ'000)
March 31
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
Working capital
60
115
314
367
429
Fixed assets
823
1111
1188
1295
1705
Investments
10
8
8
11
37
Intangibles
28
—
—
—
—
921
1234
1510
1673
2171
Loan capital
Convertible
123
150
219
308
412
notes (a)
50
100
100
100
100
Minority interest
—
—
—
—
10
Ord. capital
400
511
598
621
(b)698
Reserves
348
473
593
644
951
921
1234
1510
1673
2171
—
—
—
—
— m
Depreciation
69
87
108
114
130
Taxation
99
150
154
137
139
Net profit
94
136
127
128
133
Dividends
40
58
73
68
70
Surplus
54
78
54
60
63
Dividend rate
Earned average
10
10+2J
10+2
k 11
11
capital
Earned average
23.5
29.8
23.0
20.8
20.2
funds
13.0
15.7
1-1.7
10.4
9.2
Sales
(a) Converted on
2212 2739
October 10,
3151
1964.
3230
3419
(b) Since increased to
new shares.
£760,72;
1 by
final call on
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock Exchange
56 HUNTER STREET
SYDNEY
Telephone: 28 5721
Telegrams: Lagram, Sydney
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH:
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089
each year since flotation, more than
twice.
The company has always been very
strong in capital reserves. Last year
some were distributed in the form of a
bonus issue—on a one-for-four basis —•
from a surplus arising from the revalua-
tion of shares in a subsidiary. The issue
lifted paid-up capital to the present
£2,135,624. Ordinary dividend was held
at 10 p.c. on the higher capital without
any trouble.
The latest year’s profit, up fractionally
from £451,277, was equal to 21.2 p.c.
on the higher capital, compared with
26.5 p.c. before the bonus issue. It was
after doubling the provision for stocks
from £25,000 to £50,000 and lifting the
reserve to £150,000 (which should prove
adequate to meet any temporary fluctua-
tion in overseas prices).
The accounts show that the company
has maintained its highly liquid state,
with current assets, as usual more than
twice current liabilities. Short term
deposits stand at £185,529 compared
with £131,802 a year earlier, while cash
on hand is up from £21,178 to £109,871.
Stock has been carefully controlled
and is virtually unchanged at £3,150,669,
against £3,147,150 a year earlier. Re-
flecting the gradual growth in business,
trade and other debtors are up from
£849,943 to £997,557.
Trade creditors have been held steady
at £204,784 (£205,810 a year earlier),
with other creditors and accrued
liabilities down from £380,220 to
£356,830. Depositors are down sharply
from £348,614 to £105,123.
Despite the bonus issue, the company
is still strong in assets. Reserves of a
capital nature stand in the books at
£668,588, sufficient for another bonus
on a one-for-three basis. The 20s. shares
have an assets backing of 42s. lid.
Fixed assets appear in the books at
£2,843,279 after providing £1,102,086
for depreciation.
The shares are currently selling
around 80s., the equivalent of 100s.
before the bonus, to show a dividend
yield of 2.5 p.c. Even at this level they
do not appear to be overpriced, although
the prospects of a short term capital
gain do not appear likely.
CARTER CONSOLIDATED LTD
NZ Timber Merchant
Indiscriminate burning-off by early
■*- settlers followed by the waste of top
quality timber on purposes for which
second or third grade would have done,
have, together with a rapid increase in
overall use, caused a shortage of in-
digenous timbers in New Zealand. Fortu-
nately, modern treatment methods have
made rapid-growing radiata pine suitable
for many purposes such as sheathing,
framing, railway sleepers (replacing Aus-
tralian hardwoods) and laminations.
Flowever, native timbers are still pre-
ferred for flooring, decorative panels,
furniture, etc. For this reason, timber
companies which have an assured long-
term supply of both native and exotic
timbers are in a favorable position.
Carter Consolidated Ltd, Auckland-
based timber group with mills and yards
all over the North Island and recently
also in the South Island, is, if only be-
cause of this, one of the most promising
New Zealand timber stocks.
It recently opened a modern sawmill
on the west coast of the South Island,
where it has obtained cutting rights for
over one million feet of native timber a
year in the country’s largest reserve of
indigenous forests. It has also acquired
cutting rights for very large quantities
in a number of pinus radiata forests
around Auckland.
Part of this latter area will be ex-
ploited in a joint venture with NZ
Forest Products. The timber will be
logged and sawn in the normal way, but
all waste and that of one of Carter’s
other forests will go to NZ Forest
Products’ Penrose wallboard plant. The
operation should be particularly economi-
cal, as normally there is a wastage of
about 20 p.c. in sawmilling.
Strongly increased building activity,
which has spread from commercial build-
ing (causing a shortage of cement) to
home construction, has recently become
reflected in higher turnovers by several
timber merchants. Timber prices,
already high, will no doubt rise follow-
ing the recent 6 p.c. wage order. But
replacement materials are also expensive
and timber can be expected to remain
New Zealand’s number one building
material.
Carter’s has spent more than £600,000
on plant and buildings and in excess of
£160,000 on forests in the last three
years. Much of this expenditure has not
yet resulted in increased profits. Now
that the South Island mill is in full
operation and other projects are nearing
completion, the company’s earning rates,
which have suffered from strong ex-
pansion in recent years, should soon
begin to show improvement.
At 45s. 3d. (NZ) the £1 shares return
4.9 p.c., with earnings yield well above
the New Zealand average at 8.9 p.c.
The shares will be split into 10s. units
and a tax-free one-for-four bonus issue
made after July next year.


NEW ISSUE NOW OPEN
CAMBRIDGE
■■CREDIT
I ■
Incorporated under the Companies Act
of N.S.W. on March 8, 1950
DEBENTURE
STOCK
m
6, 8 or 10 YEARS
UNSECURED
NOTES
CURRENCIES
AND INTEREST RATES
Currency
3 Months
6 Months
12 Months
2 Years
3 Years
4 Years
5 Years
6, 8
or 10 Years
Debenture
Stock
6 l / 2 % P.A.
7% P.A.
7%% P-A.
7%% PA
7%% P A.
8% P.A.
Unsecured
Notes
5% P.A.
6% P.A.
7V 2 % PA.
8% P.A.
8%% PA
Applications can only be accepted on the
form attached to and referred to in the
prospectus.
HOW TO INVEST
Application forms and prospectus may
be obtained from:
• Any Branch of the BANK OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
• Any Member of the Stock Exchange.
• THE COMPANY'S OFFICES: Cam-
bridge House, 249 George Street,
Sydney. 'Phone 27-8621.
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Canberra, Newcastle.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, a copy
of your Prospectus.
B/ 647
NAME
ADDRESS
7/SC
No. of
Name of
Date
Cost
Per
Cur-
rent
Shares
; Company
Bought
Share
Price
1000
Hanimex
23/5/62
10/4
17/6
1000
Malleys
12/11/63
31/3
37/-
600
Con keys
13/2/64
14/6
14/-
500
Tableland
12/3/64
41/-
43/-
1000
Conquip
2/4/64
9/6
11/-
5
G. J. Coles
14/5/64
18/10
16/6
1000
Treloar
2/7/64
14/-
17/6
1000
Aberfoyle, new
15/7/64
16/9
18/-
2000
A, G. Sims
30/7/64
5/2
5/8
100
RMC
19/8/64
14/8
15/9
500
J. Wallace
20/8/64
4/1
4/-
1000
E. White
26/8/64
24/6
22/6
1000
Viscount Holdings
9/9/64
8/-
8/3
1000
Plastic Holdings
9/9/64
6/9
7/2
2000
C'mercia! Guaranty
10/9/64
3/5
3/-
200
W. Adams
17/9/64
32/-
32/6
1000
Pioneer Concrete
18/9/64
17/4
17/-
1000
Kolotex
26/9/64
14/9
15/6
100
G. E Crane, rts
28/9/64
55/-
54/6
500
Ardlethan
29/9/64
11/-
10/-
400
Associated Portland
29/9/64
12/-
200
Sydney Mutual Ins.
30/9/64
32/6
32/6
500
Protector, rts
7/10/64
21/-
21/3
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Thoughts on Balance Sheets
Mixed methods of juggling provisions
certainly no lack of variety
A during the balance sheet season.
Some companies, such as Wilcox Mofflin,
have pumped every possible penny into
their profits. Others, like Keith Harris,
Protector and Malleys, have been
deliberately conservative.
Then in other cases you find the
parent profit exceeding the consolidated
profit. Shipping News did a perfect tum-
ble turn when its consolidated profit
fell from £117,000 to £82,000, yet its
parent profit remained steady at £95,000.
Despite the Government’s attempts to
confuse matters by increasing the rate
of company income tax to Bs. 6d. in the
£, it’s still possible to get a fair idea from
the tax provision whether profits are
understated. If you take a company like
Keith Harris, which does not have the
tax benefit of overseas promotion ex-
penses, then the comparatively high tax
provision of £97,000 to stated profit of
£124,000 is worth following up.
The explanation proves to be quite
simple. A provision for contingencies of
£6500 and a provision for stock fluctua-
tions of £4OOO have been treated as
ordinary expenses and matched against
gross income, instead of being treated
as an allocation from profits. If this total
of £10,500 is added to the profit of
£124,000, then the earning rate goes
up from 45 p.c. to 49 p.c. No wonder
the company can afford to have a one-
for-four bonus issue and still maintain a
17i p.c. dividend!
Making an even bigger difference to
net profit was the £25,000 provision for
export market development created by
Protector Industries. Bringing it in jumps
the earning rate up from 42 p.c. to 55
p.c.
Although only listed for three years,
Protector has developed into one of the
strongest companies on the Stock
Exchange. Profits have leapt upward for
several successive years, creating a most
impressive record.
Apart from dominating the safety pro-
tection equipment industry in Australia,
the company has extended its sales to
over thirty other companies. The future
looks as promising as the past. Estab-
lished markets will continue to grow
and new markets will be developed.
Thus the rights market for the issue
presents a very good opportunity to get
in. My 500 rights were purchased at 21s.
Some of the companies in the port-
folio showed up well in the balance sheet
contest. Unlike, for example, Deposit
and Investment, which simply treated
the bulk of its bad debts as an appro-i
priation from profit, Malleys faced up,
to them like a true veteran. Bad debts,
of almost £90,000 were charged against
gross profit. As these bad debts relate
to the bad old days of Reid Murray,
they can be regarded as non-recurring
expenses.
A. G. Sims must go close to being
one of the best recovering stocks in
the last year. From a fairly desperate
position in 1963, things are almost back
to normal. Perhaps the best illustration
of this is the current ratio, which jumped
from 1.1 to 1 in 1963 to 1.9 to 1 in
1964.
One stock in the portfolio that de-
serves to be higher is Eric White. By
buying another 200 shares at 225. 6d.,
I'm one person trying to halt the down-
ward drift.
Another case of averaging down was
Commercial Guaranty. I hadn’t taken
Mr Doyle into my calculations when I
bought this stock a few weeks ago at
4s. This time I bought 1,000 shares at
2s. lid.
The cost of the three purchases this
week was more than paid for by the
sale of G. E. Crane at 745. 6d. If there
is such a thing as a long-term invest-
ment, this is it. But there’s just no
interest in it at this stage. I chalked up
a loss of £6l.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
500 G. E. Crane 74/6 £1839
BOUGHT
1000 Commercial
Guaranty 2/11 £l5l
200 Eric White 22/6 £230
500 Protector, rts 21/- £537
At the end of the week I had a credit
of £261.
The portfolio now is:


{
'£./ MEMBER
I SAFETY/I
fOH SAVINGS AND /J»
'NVESTMEKT
/
t*o
»
STG/12
SECURITY: Strong liquidity
reserves. The Society's total
assets exceed £5 million.
WITHDRAWALS: Your money
is available ANY TIME, if
required. No brokerage or
other deductions.
DIVIDENDS: Paid Twice
Yearly.
Write for brochure without obligation!
ST. GEORGE &CRONULLA
PERMANENT CO-OPERATIVE
BUILDING SOCIETY LIMITED
Co-operation House, 36 Ormonde Pde., Hurstville.
Phone 57 0201.
CITY: Berger House, 82 Elizabeth Street. 28 2801
MIRANDA: 551 The Kingsway. Phone 52 6466
AGENCIES:
Chatswood: Ist Floor, 389 Victoria Ave. 41 4295
Parramatta: 21a Smith St. Phone 635 7401
THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Selling Wool Privately
Crucial factor in reserve price scheme
rpHE woolgrower who sells his wool
A privately is a bit like the fellow who
does a spot of drinking in the pub after
hours. He has nothing to be ashamed
of. At the same time he does not want
the whole world to know about it.
This business of private selling looks
like developing into the crucial factor
in the acceptance, or otherwise, of the
Wool Board’s reserve price plan for the
marketing of wool. The meeting in
Canberra this month of the Australian
Wool Industry Conference could find
itself dragged into a very lengthy argu-
ment over private selling.
The trouble is that the real picture as
far as private selling is concerned is not
clear. The Wool Board estimates that
between 6 and 8 p.c. of the clip is being
disposed of privately.
Lawrence Simpson, Wool Board critic
but impassioned advocate of reserve price
selling, has produced figures which sug-
gest that private selling in the eastern
States is now running at slightly over
9 p.c. This has developed from practi-
cally nil six years ago.
In Western Australia, 30 p.c. of
the clip is sold privately, and, more im-
portantly, 50 p.c. of wool-growers in
the west use this method of disposing of
their wool (smaller growers favor it more
than the larger growers).
Simpson told a recent wool-marketing
conference of the Victorian Wheat and
Woolgrowers’ Association that he be-
lieved a firm line on curtailing private
selling could wreck the chances of the
reserve price plan being accepted at the
proposed ballot of wool-growers in
January. He made the same point as in
his letter to The Bulletin (September
26).
It was useless, he said, trying to tell
growers who were getting 9d. a pound
over the auction price by selling pri-
vately that private selling was no good.
“We will lose a lot of people who would
vote in favor of reserve price but won’t
if it means they lose their right to sell
privately,” he said.
Simpson, although he comes from Oak-
lands, NSW, and is on the committee of
the United Farmers of NSW, maintains
membership of the Yarrawonga branch
of the Victorian Wheat and Wool-
growers’ Association. In the past he has
been regarded mainly as a statistics man.
At the Victorian conference he spoke
forcefully on the private selling issue.
His timing and delivery were impressive.
His submission —that the Victorian
Wheat and Woolgrowers’ Association
delegates to the Wool Industry Confer-
ence be given “room to manoeuvre” on
private selling—was endorsed unani-
mously by the conference. He con-
tended that private selling could be re-
tained within the scope of the reserve
price plan. But he did not say to what
degree it could be retained.
This is the crux of the matter. What
exactly does the reserve price plan, as
it stands at present, say about private
selling?
It says: “The existence of private
selling alongside sale by auction clearly
offends against the fourth criteria adopted
by the Board for orderly marketing,
which is that the clip should be allocated
for sale through one system only.
“While the quantity sold privately does
not yet cause alarm when viewed against
the Australian clip as a whole, it is
already large enough in Western Austra-
lia to have upset the even flow of wool
from that State into the hands of users
and to have disrupted the roster of sales,
the eastern States would gravely endanger
Any substantial swing to private selling in
the orderly flow of wool into consump-
tion, and we feel that any such develop-
ment should be prevented from happen-
ing.
“It is recommended that it be made


NEON
(Established 1930)
Association of Great Names Series
m
fey
m
. . ksskss
MYER’S-ALLAN & STARK STORE
K
mmmn " • -
8' Powerslim Lighting at Coorparoo Drive-in
for the look oi leadership'
Phone now for a qualified Signs or Lighting engineer
to advise on a business-building ins ta Hat ion
SIGNS AND LIGHTING
ON THE
LEASE-MAINTENANCE PLAN
Details without cost or obligation
CLAUDE NEON LTD.
Sydney: 67-0488
Melbourne: 37-2257
Brisbane: 68-2481
Adelaide: 53-2291
Perth: 86-2461
Hobart: 3-3994
ALSO AT LAUNCESTON, NEWCASTLE, TOWNSVILLE AND WAGGA
SALES & SERVICE THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
SOLVES 98% OF
GARAGE DOOR PROBLEMS
m
‘FLOATING ACTION’ garage door fittings
From Hardware stores everywhere
obligatory that all shorn wool exported,
whether in the raw state or processed
and/or manufactured, should at some
stage have passed through the auction
system. It is also recommended that
steps be devised to incorporate the facili-
ties and skills of the private treaty
traders into the selling system, since there
is evidence that some of them offer
storage and display facilities of a high
standard and they offer an efficient and
economical service to their present
customers.”
There is more of it, but this is an in-
dication of the attitude of the Wool
Board to private selling. The Board’s
committee of inquiry into marketing
examined claims that with private selling
the grower got more money and, con-
versely, that he got less money. The
committee said it was unable to dis-
cover convincing evidence in support of
either claim.
A member of the Wool Board who was
present at the Victorian conference,
F. R. Howell, voiced the opinion that
the “industry cannot afford to have two
systems of selling wool”. He added,
however, that many wool-growers felt
that auction charges were too high and
that if the skills of private buyers could
be utilised within the auction system then
they should be utilised.
A run-down on these skills was pro-
vided by Reg Sewell, the new president
of the Australian Wool and Meat Pro-
ducers’ Federation (the Federal body to
which the Victorian Wheat and Wool-
growers belong), who comes from
Western Australia and who therefore
knows as much about private selling as
anyone.
Sewell said the 50 p.c. of growers
in the west were selling privately for
the very good reason that the private
buyers were offering up to 7d. a pound
over ruling auction prices. But the
Wool Board was right in recommending
that wool to be exported should pass at
some stage through the auction room.
If it did not, the reserve price plan could
be undermined, because without auction
sales a true level of prices could not be
obtained.
The private buyers were exploiting
weaknesses in the auction system, but
their prices were attractive, or other-
wise, only by comparison with auction
prices.
One particular skill which had been
developed by the private buyers was the
preparation of wool in “straight lines”.
This appealed to manufacturers. It was
a standard of preparation closer to that
maintained by the synthetic fibre industry.
HThe skills of the private buyers might
A well be incorporated in the reserve
price plan, Sewell said. Western Austra-
lian private buyers had had discussions
with the Wool Board, he believed, and
there was every likelihood that a satis-
factory agreement could be reached.
One suggestion was that the private
buyers might set up auctions of their
own. This sort of competition with
existing broking houses would be good
because it would help reduce auction
charges.
Sewell said that his interpretation of
the reserve price plan was that the
operative phrase was the one stating
that “wool should pass through an
auction at some stage before export”.
If winning the ballot is the objective,
then Lawrence Simpson’s advice to “go
easy on private selling” is sound. If the
long-term success of reserve price sell-
ing is considered, it does appear that in-
compatibility between private selling
and auction must increase as the degree
of private selling increases.
It is important to remember that the
reserve price plan is a selling plan
within the auction system. A form of
acquisition which would do away with
auction altogether and would offer wool
at set prices to overseas buyers would
certainly simplify the issue as might
acquisition plus auction.
But these are very different schemes.
The coming ballot is on reserve price, not
the two forms of acquisition.
Most growers are less concerned with


GENTLEMAN’S RESIDENCE
ON NORFOLK ISLAND
Three acres freehold on sealed road,
fully appointed house 40 squares, 4 beds,
3 baths, outbuildings, swimming pool.
Also poultry equipment for 1200 layers.
W/i, w/o. £14,500.
F. J. NEEDHAM, R.E.A.
Norfolk Island
Legal Notice
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
IN ENGLAND
A DIVORCE PETITION has been filed against
JOHN NEILSON CLIFF HEAP late of 8 Hardie
Street, Mascot near Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia, who may apply to the Divorce
Registry, Somerset House, London W.C.2,
England, for a copy of the Petition. If
within 80 days he has not communicated
with the Registry, the Court may hear the
case in his absence.—COMPTON MILLER,
Registrar.
HELP
LEGACY
all the year
round
the principles of any selling system than
they are with the price they get. They
want what is best for them. So for that
matter does everyone else, and this in-
cludes the brokers.
Now the National Council of Wool
Selling Brokers has stated that it is not
opposed to the reserve price plan as out-
lined by the Wool Board.
There is, though, no mention in the
Board’s plan of private buyers setting up
auctions of their own. The brokers
might well be expected to have some
qualms over this idea, brought to light
by Mr Sewell, and might well revise their
opinion of the Board’s plan.
The brokers, like everyone else, looked
at the Board's plan to see what was in
it for them. The hard line on private
selling, particularly those parts noted
earlier in this article, doubtless appealed
to them. Now, with private selling get-
ting the long rein, they may have doubts.
There is evidence, indeed, that broker
opinion (a big factor in the rejection of
the Joint Organisation scheme, similar
to reserve price, in 1951) is beginning to
harden. The annual review of Dennys
Lascelles Ltd contains some comments
on the reserve price scheme which are
not laudatory. This is the first time,
to date, that a broker has revealed
opposition to the plan in black and white.
The brokers, with their contacts with
many growers, could mount a pretty
effective opposition when the reserve
price plan goes to ballot. Provided the
coming meeting of the Wool Industry
Conference comes to agreement in Can-
berra, the ballot papers will probably go
out in December to be returned in
January.
futures market, likewise, might
A regard continued private selling with
disfavor. The biggest futures market is
Sydney and this body has, like the
National Council of Wool Selling
Brokers, stated officially that it is not
opposed to the reserve price plan as it
now stands.
And, despite Lawrence Simpson’s
Bulletin letter, stating that the quick
sale is not the big incentive in private
selling, a growing proportion of Western
Australian wool sold privately is done so
on a futures basis.
At the Victorian conference, West
Australian Sewell said: “You might
wonder why the grower, if he wants to
sell ahead, does not sell through normal
futures trading. The answer is that the
proposition put up by the private buyer
is a very simple on-the-farm transaction.
It is simple and quick, and appeals to
the grower.”
One set of figures which the Wool
Industry Conference should be able to
obtain, and consider carefully, is the
number of growers who sell privately.
This, from the point of view of the bal-
lot, is more important than the per-
centage of the wool clip sold privately.
This writer has endeavored to ascer-
tain how many private buyers there are
in the country. The figure seems to be
about 25 —at least 25 well-established
buyers with solid facilities behind them.
Remarkably enough, this writer has
what appears to be very sound informa-
tion that not all of these private buyers
are doing very well financially. At least
three have had seven consecutive years
in the red. It makes one wonder.
The intangible thing is that, in de-
claring a private treaty price is so much
over the ruling auction price, no one
can be really certain. You could only be
thoroughly certain if the wool did, in
fact, go on to the auction floor. Wool
cannot be in two places at once.
market fluctuates so widely—and
A this no one can deny—that the
comparison is, at best, an educated guess,
Last year, the broker attitude to pri-
vate selling was summed up neatly by the
then chairman of the Adelaide Wool-
brokers’ Association, Mr E. B. Nolan.
He said: “If buyers can get wool cheaper
at auction they would not be trying to
buy it privately. Without auctions the
grower would have no idea of the value
of his product and would be at the
mercy of the one-bid buyer or a few
operators, as in the United States.”
Nolan produced figures to show that
auction prices, overall, were 11 to 13
p.c. higher than private treaty prices.
He admitted that there were “obvious
exceptions”.
What it all adds up to is that private
selling is a very touchy subject. By com-
parison, the question of the eligibility
of wool-growers to vote in the ballot has
now receded. It looks as if a 10 or 12
bale limit will be agreed upon without
a great deal of fuss or bother by the
Wool Industry Conference.
Even the challenge to the wool promo-
tion levy in the High Court by Logan
Downs Pty Ltd is a side issue—although
a pretty uncomfortable one, probably, for
Sir William Gunn and the Wool Board.
If the Court finds in favor of Logan
Downs, all that it means is that the pro-
motion levy cannot be collected per
medium of the Wool Tax Act of 1964.
Wool-growers could, if they wanted to,
turn around and set up their own statu-
tory body to collect the levy. This
would cause delay, possibly, to the
implementation of the reserve price plan
—and doubtless a degree of justified
suspicion on the part of the Common-
wealth Government that the wool-
growers of Australia are incapable of
agreeing amongst themselves.
New Chemical for
Skeleton Weed
A new chemical, dicamba, which has
been under extensive tests by the
Vermin and Noxious Weeds Destruction
Board for three years, is being recom-
mended in Victoria for skeleton-weed
control.
Dicamba is closely related to TBA and
has very similar properties. They are
both effective in eradicating patches of
skeleton weed, a plant spreading over
wide areas of Victoria’s wheat-belt.
TBA has been available commercially
in Victoria as Trysben 200 and dicamba,
also known as Banvel D, has been avail-
able as Banex. Extensive research work
has determined different rates of chemi-
cal to be needed according to soil types
and seasons.
For treating skeleton weed, a subsidy
of 15 p.c. is payable to landholders using
these chemicals to the Ministry of Land’s
specifications.
These chemicals are too expensive
for broad acre application and they have
been used only for treating smaller
patches. A cheap chemical for treating
large areas is urgently needed and re-
search is proceeding in Victoria to find
one.


Why people like
and buy the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney
NAME 1
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
*N.Z. Subscription to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited.
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36 N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick -y/ whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? j~J or
A renewal subscription? □
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
months subscription to THE BULLETIN.
*New Zealand readers may have their copies air
freighted (£4 4s. N.Z. for 52 issues, £2 12s. for
26 issues) or by surface mail (£3 7s. N.Z. for
52 issues, £2 2s. for 26 issues).
BULLETIN
THE BULLETIN has been a famous name in Australia
since 1880 the year it was established. In its 84
years of continuous weekly publication it has seen
many changes. Two years ago it got a new cover
and a new look. As a result more and more people
are buying THE BULLETIN for its features, its overseas
and local news, its regular contributors and its reviews
of films, books, music and theatre. Why don't you
make sure of YOUR copy of THE BULLETIN by ordering
if each week? THE BULLETIN is a must.
The
Bulletin
A magazine of facts and ideas est. 1880
ON SALE WEDNESDAYS —2/-
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 818
ACROSS
I—lt’s not to give the sack recommended to slovenly
fieldsmen when beginning to blaze away. (8, 4)
B—Grove having a crippled one. (7)
10— Changed coats in deeds. (7)
11 — Produce artwork with metal and acid. (4)
12— Having similar views as the fifty Eisenhower
looked after. (4-6)
15—Ape our article and leave you some taste. (6-6)
19—In 10-across you have already been obedient to
such rows. (12)
22—Club cameraderie requires
whisky, perhaps, on the side.
(4, 6)
24—Backroom dupe of lago. (4)
26—Cordial with a picture of a
supporter of electric railway
wiring what’s absolutely
fabulous? (7)
28— Hockey-players’ dishonesty
from an Indian city. (7)
29 Next to me how am I when
very agitated? (6, 6)
DOWN
1— Duenna having tea with a
deposed dictator. (8)
2 The marriage-wrecker of 1-
down when deserted by the
dictator report on cricket
progress. (3, 5)
3 Edward is greeted and hurried
along. (4)
4 Evidence of some burning
love of old. (5)
5 Renegade sailor turned up. (3)
6 Not out from the Indies. (6)
7 They cover trouble-makers.
(5)
9—Fat publicity with which I
strike an attitude. (7)
13— Light foreign items need to
be cut down. (6)
14— The original English fishes.
(6)
16—Fastening pussy up over
majesty. (7)
17— Roy Rene to get out of bed
and impart modern mobility.
(8)
18— God having the bone flower.
(6)
20— Channel artist is confused.
(6)
21— Was seen around if urchins
are wanted. (5)
23—Hard water turned in Boa-
dicea’s folk. (5)
25—Girl responsible for army re-
organisation. (4)
27—May be a drone but suggests
a burst of voluntary com-
munity work. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 817


vmtmtkm
.
■■■■■
.
'-M - , ' _ -
- 1
j'
‘T
*
- .. *
/' -
.
, draw
-V’, *'„
' ...... ■■- ' :
■
if it’s urgent —send it /PEC


i
“Whenever I thoughl
of serving an
Australian white wine
/ used to find it difficult
to make a choice
red wines never seem to present
the same problem(Coonawarm
Estate is always so good)
until Clifford suggested / try
another ESTA TE wine of Wynn
Modbury Estate .
/ was agreeably surprised
the 1963 Vintage is superb
for as long as it lasts / won 'i
be looking elsewhere
here are six distinct types of Modburv Estate
hite table wines: Riesling. Chablis, Hock. White
argundy, Semilton (Sauternes) and Moselle.
*63 is the recommended vintage.
lODBURY ESTATE WHITE WINES 25 ESTATE WINFS OF S WYNN ft CO.
