

The Bulletin
JANUARY 1 1, 1964
r-:zs4Z-: . .
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL Tl IVIES-
West Australia’s
CHARLES COURT
a r ,
New Zer
- -


if it’s urgent
PECiJBI
I
me
EXPRESS
INTERSTATE PARCEL
B
send it I PEC
EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICE
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA


National Notebook
Coming and going
At the Chevron-Hilton, Sydney, Frank
Ifield, a former yodeller of these
parts who struck it rich in Britain with
a recording of Johnny Mercer's old “I
Remember You”, is belting out the
numbers loud and hard —18 of them in
40 minutes, by our first-night count.
Nervous but tautly controlled, with
shrewd, level eyes, Ifield now seems very
much a Londoner, even to the Finsbury
Park accent. We asked him how he had
found the first three years of struggle
before he mined gold with his hit record.
“I could be just as happy living in a
a kerosene tin,” he replied. But he
added that the kind of third-rate British
theatres which Shirley Bassey and Alma
Cogan had struggled with in their earlier
climb had disappeared; that for him it
had been a slow, satisfying move ahead
without the sleazy theatres-and-setbacks
of show-biz tradition.
He insisted against our suspicious
old mind that everyone in the business
in Britain had been willing to give a
hand to a coming young pro. “Tommy
Steele was especially helpful. And Alma
Cogan put me on her show just after
‘I Remember You’ had
been released following a
few flops. She stuck her
neck out for me. This
gave ‘I Remember You’
the first push. After that
it took off.”
From here, Ifield will
go on a tour of New Zealand, South
Africa, and then to Blackpool before he
goes to London to discuss a possible
film role being written for him by the
authors of the Cliff Richard success,
“Summer Holiday”.
Wasn’t it, we asked, dangerous to
leave Britain for so long? Wouldn’t the
public quickly forget a reputation so
recently established and precariously
hinged on recordings?
“Not at all. There are so many people
to reach,” Ifield replied crisply, his eyes
set in steely concentration.
While Ifield was going hard at it in
the Chevron, a star of earlier vintage—
Dick Haymes—was entertaining an un-
dercrowded room at Chequers. Before
the show he gave what could only
euphemistically be described as an inter-
view between nervous chuckles to his
manager, ostentatious glances at his
watch, and a blowfly - swatting routine
which he may well have learned from
the Strasberg school.
By the time we finally got the message
and left, he had managed to say that
audiences today demanded more than
they got in the days when he was the
star of Fox musicals like “State Fair”
and “Diamond Horseshoe” back in the
’forties. Then, Haymes whose sub-
sequent career has been dogged by dis-
turbances like draft-dodging charges and
Rita Hayworth—went on stage to per-
form as adroitly as he does on record,
the artificial smile and showman’s bon-
homie contrasting oddly with the hard,
sad eyes, the very much lived-in face.
Jaded and tough, his keynote came from
one of his best songs:
There may he rain
And darkness too
1 M’on’t complain . . .
I’ll see it through! - .
» i KJ # N
Hot from the presses - '
Opeed in publishing in Australia is the
exception rather than the rule, but a
group of Catholic laymen in Sydney
have set an example to commercial pub-
lishers. The laymen, who call themselves
the Suhard group, got out a 16,500 word
pamphlet giving a full cover of the second
session of the Vatican Council within 17
days of the end of the session. The
pamphlet was written by
Fr W. Purdy, Professor
of Philosophy at the Beda
College in Rome, which
trains men who study for
the priesthood late in life.
Fr Purdy, who is Rome
correspondent for the old-
established English Catholic weekly “The
Tablet”, writes in a smooth, urbane style
although his sympathies may be with the
forces of change within the Catholic
Church.
The Empress
Thin Empress of Australia will be
launched at Cockatoo Island Dock-
yard, Sydney, on January 18. This
9850-ton passenger and vehicle ferry,
the largest vessel for passengers ever
built in Australia, will enter the service
of the Australian National Line possibly
by next September, operating three
round trips a fortnight alternately be-
tween Sydney and Hobart (40 hours for
the 620 miles), and Sydney and Bell Bay,
in northern Tasmania. The ship will be
stabilised and air-conditioned, and will
carry up to 250 passengers, all in cabins,
and 91 cars. People going with cars
will get priority of booking over passen-
gers who want to travel, so to speak, as
pedestrians.
A few days ago we wangled permission
to have a look over the Empress. On
the stocks she towered above us within
Page
N.G.’s ELECTIONS 22
33 days’ hard labor?
•
AROUND MELBOURNE ... 18
BUSINESS AND FINANCE . 37
CROSSWORD 54
EIGHTY YEARS AGO .... 8
FORUM 22
LETTERS 28
MAN ON THE LAND 51
OUT AND ABOUT 16
OVERSEAS 27
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
RED PACE 33
REVIEWS 30
SHORT STORY 20
TANNER 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
•
Qantas and the French 6
WA’s Charles Court Golden
Slipper for Cinderella State .. 12
Eric Smith: “A Painter’s Painter” 16
More Blood Than Ben Casey or,
Who’s for Fairy Tales 18
Short Story: The Neighbors 20
Singapore Confrontation’s Weird
World 27
Theatre: Discordant Notes 30
The Hollow Laughter of Kingsley
Amis 33
Business: Overseas Influences in
1963 37
Timber Prospects 41
Share Brokers’ Forecasts 45
We Buy Pakistan’s Wool 51
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone: 27 5971.
Advertising: 163 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088 Phone: 2 0666 Ext. 380.
Vol. 86
No. 4377


a forest of scaffolding, her sleek, butter-
colored hull and white upperworks look-
ing very trim and yacht-like in the setting
of the shipyard. Under her keel, ship-
wrights with adzes were shaping the last
of the poppets on which the ship will
rest when she slides down the ways into
the Parramatta River.
“Just now she looks better on the
outside than inside,” said the dockyard
officer who was our guide. We saw what
he meant when we climbed on board
into the noisy confusion and gloom of
half-finished cabins and compartments,
strewn with labelled components waiting
to be fitted into the puzzle. It was strange
to be dazzled at one moment by the
flare of welding and then immediately
round the next bulkhead to find a cosy
party of joiners putting wardrobes to-
gether. The vehicle deck more than
anything else felt like the heart of the
ship. Down there one might have been
in a long, narrow cinema where the big
stern doorway was the screen for a
bright picture of sky and water. This
deck, studded with anchorage points for
cars, runs nearly the whole 443 feet of
the ship’s length.
The Empress of Australia seems
headed for a success equal to that of
her Melbourne/Devonport running mate,
the Princess of Tasmania. Even
though sailing schedules and fares have
not been announced, booking agents are
getting a flood of applications for
passages. The Sydney office of the Tas-
manian Tourist Bureau alone has logged
inquiries accounting for at least 1200
berths.
The Cover
/Charles Court, Western Australia’s
lively, enterprising Industrial De-
velopment Minister, was photographed
for the cover beside a model of his
favorite project—the Ord River Dam.
For a profile of Court and his effect
on the Cinderella State—see page 12.
The Small Hours
do they call the small hours small
When they stretch away in an end-
less wall
When they loom above in unscalable
height
When they’re so damn big they last all
night?
The small hours hold the biggest things:
Like death and bills and the dirty slings
Of outrageous fortune, and frantic rage,
And worry about your poor old age.
The small hours dawdle minute by
minute
And every one has eternity in it
Full of pitfalls and dreadful bloomers,
Mistakes and failures, sins and rumours.
The small hours, black and overflowing,
Are when you know your mind is going,
They’re when you try to make ends meet
And get all knotted up in sheet.
The small hours are when demon sleep
Over the hills and far doth leap;
The smallest thing when the hours are
small
Is you: you hardly rate at all.
The wee-est smallest hour's the one
Which takes the longest time to run,
The one your lamentations stick to,
The one you'd like to give a kick to.
There’s something about a wee small
hour
That makes you savage, sick and sour;
You can be wee-er and smaller far
Than any wee small hours are.
Why do they call the small hours small?
Compared with which an aeon’s a ball
And Everest just a hillclimb mere
And Mars the lightest light year near.
PAT FLOWER
Tanner
Now that the
world's leaders
have given as
Their New Year
message of peace
and hope we can
get on with .. .
1964


PLAIN ENGLISH
Australia and the Confrontation
jl/lALAYSIA has acted sensibly
in informing the Secretary Gen-
eral of the United Nations of
specific acts of aggression against
its territorial integrity by Indonesia.
We cannot expect too much of such
an action at this stage but it at least
places Indonesian aggression on the
record which is where it should be.
Naturally, Indonesia has lost no time
in making a complaint to the Secre-
tary General of similar acts of ag-
gression by Malaysia against Indo-
nesia. This is pretty much to be
expected and if one or both of the
complaints result in U Thant
who has good reason to be fed up
with Indonesian duplicity over the
issue appointing his own UN
observers to Borneo to establish
the truth of the situation, which
is indisputably a matter of Indo-
nesian aggression, then so much the
better. Malaysia has wisely refrain-
ed from requesting a meeting of
the Security Council with its ensu-
ing complications and the prob-
ability of a veto.
Australia’s role in the confron-
tation should continue to be cau-
tious. It is quite apparent that there
have been tentative approaches to
both Australia and New Zealand for
a more direct military participation
in the Borneo clash. The time may
come when that clash becomes open
warfare and Indonesian infiltration
a full-size operation, in which case
Australia and New Zealand must,
in the interests of self-defence as well
as in honorable fulfilment of their
understanding with Kuala Lumpur,
help Malaysia with full military aid.
That time is obviously not yet. To
commit Australian troops to Borneo
is an irrevocable step and it may
become an inevitable one. But it
should not be taken while the con-
frontation is itself reasonably static,
while the pipeline between Canberra
and Djakarta is still open and while
Indonesia’s increasingly severe
economic situation may persuade
Djakarta that the game isn’t worth
the candle. Avoiding a final break
with Indonesia which posting
Australian troops to Borneo would
surely precipitate and seeking
a mutual accommodation of our
conflicting interests are sensible
Australian foreign policy aims.
The Government is aware of this
and it has so far combined tact
and firmness in dealing with Indo-
nesia.
Nevertheless if the recent incur-
sions by Indonesian armed patrols
across the border from Merauke
into East New Guinea were an
attempt to blackmail Australia into
a more pro-Indonesian line on
Malaysia by a threat of trouble to
come they have failed. Indonesia
must never feel that it can either
buy or extort friendship from us.
The basis of friendship between
Australia and Indonesia exists of
its own accord primarily for good,
sensible reasons of geography.
Therefore, while there remains the
possibility that a coalition of
restraining pressures in Indonesia
will pull Djakarta back what-
ever the complicated causes
from a self-destructive adventure,
Australia can help by exercising its
own restraint without any discredit
to itself.
Universities without Ideas
/YNE of the most disappointing
features of Australian university
life in recent years is that, while con-
stantly asserting to the world that
they are self-governing communities
of scholars, the universities have
shown an astonishing inability to
govern themselves. The great prob-
lem they have faced since the war
is the unprecedented expansion of
vocational education ever - in-
creasing numbers of students and
ever-increasing demands on limited
resources. Naturally enough
academics have been acutely aware
of what has been happening—but
beyond insisting (rightly) that
higher salaries will help recruit
more staff, they have been singu-
larly lacking in the ideas or the
will to solve their problems.
For example, last year saw the
second Report of the Australian
Universities Commission which, in
line with tradition, limited itself
largely to financial considerations
leaving policy questions to the
separate universities. Now one of
the main criticisms of the Report,
from the universities, is that the
Commission has not shown “leader-
ship” when obviously its basic
hope is that it is the universities
themselves that would provide the
leadership.
Unfortunately the scale and rapid-
ity of recent and future university
expansion mean that unless the
universities hurry up and produce
leadership, the Commission will
have to take over the policy of all
universities and all pretence of
academic self-government will be
undermined.
One obvious partial solution
adopted to meet this problem over-
seas has been junior vocational
colleges with degree - conferring
rights. These channel large numbers
away from the “senior” universities
and at the same time give their
students the education required. Yet
there has been little but opposition
to this proposal from Australian
universities on the ground that
they will lower standards—and no
serious alternative offered.
Again it is notorious that some
of the submissions made to the
Commission by the universities were
managerially illiterate statements.
Yet if it is suggested that the
solution is to get men with business
training, if not businessmen, as
Vice-Chancellors, the cry goes up
of encroachment on academic
traditions.
The 1960 s will see even bigger
changes in our universities than the
19505, and it will be in everyone’s
interests if the universities take the
initiative in meeting these prob-
lems.


THIS AUSTRALIA
AIRLINES
Qantas Gets Tough
Resisting French charm,
C. O. TURNER
for profits
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
International civil aviation diplo-
macy, like the airlines’ big jets,
usually operates at a level far out of
sight of the work-a-day world. It is
only when negotiations fail and services
are cancelled that the public becomes
aware that international air traffic rights
into and out of the greater, and lesser,
cities of the world are the subject of
hard and often prolonged bargaining
between governments.
The current impasse between France
and Australia over a packet of air traf-
fic rights involving Qantas and the
French privately-owned international
line UTA is not a sudden surprise
development but the product of years
of talking, ad hoc and preliminary
agreements, offers and dignified recrimi-
nations.
The deadlock became public when
on Boxing Day night the Minister for
Civil Aviation, Senator Paltridge, an-
nounced that France had cancelled
Qantas’ rights to operate jet services to
Tahiti and was to withdraw French long-
range jet services through Sydney from
December 31. Furthermore, the French
authorities also said “there was no im-
mediate prospect” of reconsidering
reciprocal services between Sydney and
Tahiti. But Senator Paltridge spoke of
“optimism” about keeping services go-
ing between Noumea in New Caledonia
and Sydney (Qantas aircraft) after Janu-
ary.
Qantas operated to Noumea as long
ago as the 'forties and during the ’fifties
French airliners stopped at Brisbane on
their way to Oceania. But the origins of
the current situation go back to a so-
called “preliminary agreement” reached
in 1961 letting TAI into Sydney. TAI
recently merged with UAT to become
UTA, the airline currently involved.
-The choice between rights at Paris
on a terminal service or at Marseilles on
a through service to London was offered
by the French, but this would have been
of little benefit to Qantas. Rights to
operate through Chile were offered but
not till the French had a similar service
to South America.
This agreement allowed France to
gain the coveted goal of world airlines,
a round-the-world service, because TAI
planes flew from Tahiti to Los Angeles
to connect with an Air-France service.
But most importantly the agreement
gave the French a foothold on the highly
competitive Australia-Europe run. Six
airlines operate out of Sydney to Europe
QEA, BOAC, Alitalia, Air India,
KLM and until this year TAI/UTA.
Situated in elaborate premises on the
ground floor of the Sydney Stock
Exchange building, only a good stone’s
throw from QEA headquarters, with
heavily accented switch girls and recep-
tion staff to provide the French color,
TAI and then UTA have managed to
carve out a share of the Europe-bound
traffic. More than a fair share, accord-
ing to Qantas. Their balance sheet about
the end of 1962 showed that after two
years the French had gained about £2
million in revenue compared with QEA's
£250,000 on the Noumea run.
I>Y the end of 1962, QEA also looked
to Liking up its promised right to
operate to Tahiti. After preliminary
exchanges the talks got under way
formally in February last year in Henty
House, Little Collins Street, Melbourne,
the headquarters of the Department of
Civil Aviation, hard by Menzies Hotel
where Qantas delegates planned their
strategy. The French team of six W'as
headed by Mr Robert Vergnaud, a tall,
urbane French civil servant, who is
Director of Air Transport within the
Ministry of Public Works and Transport
and has his office in Boulevard St
Germain. The French reputation for
toughness in negotiations over inter-
national air traffic rights is well deserved.
Mr Vergnaud proved a hard negotiator.
But the Australian team who used the
creaky Henty House lift to reach the
conference room had a high record in
the tricky field of international civil avia-
tion diplomacy. They had succeeded in
getting fly-over rights across the USA
to provide QEA with the first inter-
national airlines round-the-world service
in 1957.
Confronted with the balance sheet, the
French did concede that there was a
need for a review. But it took many
more months and much correspondence
before in August a new arrangement
was announced by Senator Paltridge.
Under this QEA was to take up its
right to operate to Tahiti and beyond
when it was “ready and able to do so”.
Furthermore, the French would not pick
up or set down traffic in Sydney to or
from points west of Sydney.
From late August the French com-
plied with the west-bound traffic order.
The agreement was initialled in Septem-
ber and Qantas began a promotion drive
for its new Tahiti service which got
under way on November 22.
With an eye to the future, Qantas
began active planning to take advantage
of the “or beyond” clause applying to
Tahiti. Later last year Jack Fogarty,
Australian representative at ICAO head-
quarters in Montreal, flew to Mexico
City and successfully negotiated landing
rights for a service which would go
Tahiti/Mexico City or Acapulco'/Car-
ribean ports/London. This service would
provide Australia w'ith easier access to
Central American and South American
connections and, more important, pro-
vide a new service with new stop-overs
for Sydney-London traffic which wanted
something new. It would also spell the
end of prospects for Sir Gordon Taylor's
lower Trans-Pacific route. Chile has
done nothing to build an air strip at
Easter Island. Fuel costs there would
be too high and it would not be an
attractive stop-over.
But with the agreement only freshly
signed, Australia heard nothing from
France until the sudden communication
in December which led to Senator
Paltridge’s announcement.
The French, despite their earlier
agreement, now bluntly want their west-
of-Sydney traffic back again. They talk
of competition and claim that Qantas’
rights to Tahiti and beyond will redress
the imbalance. The French side excludes
Gallic optimism about the prospects for
settlement and hints at fresh impending
negotiations. Despite the announced
cancellation of French services from
January 1, they hope to send two
scheduled services out this month to
clear reservations.
But unless French optimism is justified
by the end of this month the big UTA
DC-8 jets will be flying from Darwin


to Noumea direct, by-passing Eastern
Australia. On the Australian side Qantas
is set against compromise, arguing
that it was patient for years with a bad
deal and that on the Sydney-Europe run
it has basic rights to the traffic. The
argument on basic rights is backed by
reference to one of the jargon sets of
initials that litter international aviation,
TOD, i.e., True Origin and Destination.
In the scrambling world of international
aviation TOD is an important phrase.
It is a vital one to the American
operators on the high density Atlantic
run just as it is to Qantas which must
hold its own on the Sydney-Europe
route.
It is no coincidence that Australia
and America, in particular QEA and
PAA. tend to agree on the higher levels
of airline diplomacy. Another bond of
feeling is Qantas’ firm drive under
C.O. Turner, chief executive officer,
towards being a self - supporting com-
mercial undertaking. Last year QEA
pulled dowm its biggest profit of
£1,406,246 after paying interest bills of
£1,301,569 and income tax of £492,776.
The Americans are openly critical of the
“national-prestige” airlines, which, gov-
ern men t-owmed like Qantas, tend to lose
money in over-expansion and reckless
plane purchasing. In the razor-edge
financial world of international airlines
finance, Qantas’ profit record stands out
against the losses of BOAC or the more
spectacular accumulated losses of KLM.
UTA, the French airline involved in
the current dispute, is privately owned
but is not making profits.
To match savage competition QEA has
committed itself to an expansion of just
on 50 per cent of its Boeing jet fleet in
the next two years. In this climate the
refusal to allow a drift of £1,000,000
potential revenue a year is explicable
while Australia has £17.7 million in
shareholders' funds and more than £2l
million in loans and advances tied up
in Qantas’ successful operations.
NEW GUINEA
West of the Border
The dangers with junior officers
C. E. BARNES
Watching Kota Barn
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
Commonwealth expects further
"incidents’’ during 1964 along the
ill-defined border between New Guinea
and West Irian until the border is defin-
itely marked and accepted by both In-
donesia and Australia.
Even with all the goodwill in the world
between the Indonesian and Australian
Governments there are bound to be pro-
blems. Because of the difficult nature
of the remote terrain and the length of
the border, the leaders of the survey and
other patrols must be young, fit officers
who have to be kept from reacting first
and thinking later. Both sides have to
entrust responsibility to this relatively
junior type of officer.
So far there have been two reported
"incidents", in one of which an Austra-
lian survey party was confronted by an
armed Indonesian patrol and forced to
retreat into Australian territory; and ap-
parently several unreported ‘'incidents".
On one occasion, an Australian officer,
acting on the knowledge that he was well
inside Australian territory, is reported to
have deployed his armed patrol in a
manner which persuaded an Indonesian
patrol to retire into West Irian territory
w ith its original purpose unaccomplished.
In these incidents, the officers-in-charge
had to make on-the-spot decisions which,
if wrong, could be momentous from Aus-
tralia's viewpoint. Difficulties apparently
crop up all the time. For example, in
the old days when the Dutch controlled
West Irian, some of the indigenous in-
habitants chose to live on one side of
the border and have their cultivation plots
on the other side. Neither Australian nor
Dutch administrations interfered. But in
at least one case the Indonesian attitude
has been that if the indigenous inhabit-
ants use land on the Indonesian side of
the border they should be domiciled in
Indonesian territory as Indonesian sub-
jects and so should leave their living
quarters in Australian-controlled terri-
tory to make new homes in West Irian.
How does a young officer remote from
HQ. with communications either non-
existent or at the best makeshift and
difficult, deal on the spot with such a
situation? He is there to protect the wel-
fare of the indigenous inhabitants. If he
thinks they are being pushed around or
pressurised improperly, what should h«
do? Act promptly? Or wait for guid-
ance from HQ?
The problem is possibly even more
difficult for the Indonesians than for
Australians. Indonesia’s independence
from external control is later than Aus*
tralia’s. Its administration has had to
be built up hastily in the post-war years,
and its nationalism, because newer, could
be more sensitive than ours. An inter-
national crisis could easily arise out of
the belief of a junior officer that his
country’s prestige demands a forceful
course of action to solve an argument
that higher authorities could resolve
satisfactorily to both parties with the
exchange of a few cables.
It would seem that at this stage, at any
rate, the Indonesian Government is
genuinely anxious to join with the Aus-
tralian Government in avoiding mis-
understandings on the New Guinea-West
Irian border. After the incident in which
the Australian survey team was forced
by armed Indonesians to retreat into Aus-
tralian territory, the new Territories Min-
ister. Mr Barnes, announced that Aus-
tralia had stopped surveying the border
pending clarification of the situation at
the diplomatic level in Djakarta. The
Indonesian reaction w'as gratify ingly
prompt and amiable. The Indonesian
Government agreed with Australia that
the survey should be resumed. The in-
cident was attributed to a misunderstand-
ing on the part of the Indonesian authori-
ties in West Irian, who were unaware that
the Indonesian Foreign Minister, Dr
Subandrio, had agreed to the survey. The
survey is now to be resumed.
As I see it there are two things im-
portant to Australia which emerge from
the December 20 incident which led to
Barnes suspending the survey until be
had consulted with Djakarta. The first
important thing is that completion of the
survey must be made a No. 1 priority.
Until the survey is completed and the
border definitely marked and accepted
by Australia and Indonesia there must be
uncertainty on the part of the officers
on both sides who are policing the border.
Uncertainty leads to mistakes in judg-
ment. A mistake of judgment in this
area could have grave consequences.
The second important thing is that
communications in this area are more
important than costs. The NG Adminis-
tration is already improving its com-
munications system in the region. The
technical difficulties are obviously im-
mense. The expense could be quite
significant. But a crash ‘'spare -no - ex-
pense" improvement in communications
might yet prove money well spent. Main-
taining bushfire patrols during the bush-
fire season is always a costly business.
But the precautions taken are worth
every penny spent if they prevent a
forest being burned out.


BUSINESS
Korman's Biggest
Beal Ever
His faithful public
S. KORMAN
NZ nesteggs
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
VUith the survival assured of Factors
’’ Ltd. intact with its most profitable
asset, Holeproof (New Zealand), Mr
Stanley Korman had still to go through
the most awful moment of his dogged
battle when under the new Companies
Act he was obliged to reveal to share-
holders at the annual meeting at the
Chamber of Manufactures in Melbourne
last week that he and his brother Hilel
had drawn, and were owed, huge sums
for management expenses by Holeproof
(NZ) of which they are joint managing
directors.
Under an agreement, which Korman
told the meeting is legally enforceable,
dating back to 1947-48, the brothers
between them have been entitled to 10
p.c. (5 p.c. each) of the net profits from
Holeproof (NZ). In the early years
Stanley Korman’s take didn't amount to
very much a mere £1267 in 1947
but for the year to July 31 last it
amounted to £41,830. Between them the
brothers were entitled to £83,660 last
year, and in addition the balance sheet
shows that Holeproof (NZ) owes them
£45,000 apiece in respect of amounts
owing under the agreement which have
not yet been drawn in respect of
previous years.
No w'onder. then, that Stanley Korman
could tell the meeting, without fear of
contradiction, that if it had not been for
the Korman family the deal between
Factors and Commercial and General
Acceptance Ltd. which rescued Factors
from the Receiver, would never have
been made.
The admission showed why Korman
has been so intent on keeping Holeproof
(NZ) in the camp of Factors Ltd, of
which he is chairman, at the expense of
sacrificing the other most profitable
asset in the group, Holeproof (Australia),
which the Receiver recently sold to
Prestige Ltd for about £33 million, and
whose management has been outside the
Korman family ever since it joined the
Factors’ circle four years ago.
Thanks to that sale, and to the timely
loan from Commercial and General
Acceptance of about £l.B million at an
undisclosed rate of interest, and to the
retention of Holeproof (NZ) in Factors,
Korman has also succeeded in preserving
his private valuable capital asset in Hole-
proof (NZ), which has been built up
largely as a result of Hilel Korman's
management expertise. For, although a
large part of the proceeds of the sale
and the loan will now be used to pay olf
the £5.4 million owing to Factors’
creditors and so end the Receivership,
according to Stanley Korman, the
residual assets of the group will be
worth a net £2,260,000 in shareholders’
funds (approximately 2s. 6d. a share),
and after interest is paid on the CAGA
loan (Mr Korman called this "bridging”
finance) and to other long-term lenders,
net income should be in the region of
£200.000 a year.
So Korman has pulled off his biggest
deal ever, and the stock exchanges have
acknowledged the fact by pushing the
price of Factors’ ss. shares to around the
figure Korman himself puts on the
group's net assets value per share. Indeed
the price could go higher than the 2s. 6d.
assets value behind the shares, because
having got that far Korman is talking
boldly of injecting more loan money into
Factors, of building up profit-earning
resources which will enable the company
to avail itself of considerable tax losses
in subsidiaries and paying dividends in
due course.
To add spice to his successful negoti-
ating and also to the future prospect,
Mr Korman said that after four months
trading this year Holeproof (NZ)'s gross
profits were running at the rate of about
£860.000 a year, and that thanks to pay-
ments from Holeproof (NZ) and contri-
butions from calls on the 3d. paid ss.
shares which were due at the end of
December, the loan from CAGA would
shortly be reduced to about £1 million.
How fast he will be able to go on from
this point will depend not so much,
perhaps, on the ambitions and histrionics
of Korman himself (these were carried
to extreme lengths at the meeting when
in the uproar he covered his head with
the balance sheet and uttered an oath
that he was telling the truth) but on the
new men (such as Mr C. W. Fletcher,
the general manager of CAGA) joining
THE CHINESE CAMPS
ffitfeulletCn
80 Years Ago: January 12, 18S4
HThe reports furnished by Police In-
spector Brennan and Mr Quong
Tart, respecting the condition of the
Chinese camps in this colony, are
very instructive documents. These
two commissioners have effected
their work in so practical a fashion
that the idea at once suggests itself
that they should be commissioned to
continue their investigations, taking
for their field of inspection on this
occasion the European camps at
Woolloomooloo and Waterloo.
On the subject of European women
in the Chinese camps Mr Brennan
is sufficiently explicit. What the
women are. Chinamen did not make
them. They are the dregs of European
‘'gallantry”, not more debased than
some of their sisters in vice in the
European camps of Waterloo and
Woolloomooloo, and decidedly better
off in material comforts. True, they
are opium smokers, in addition to
their other qualifications; but as the
opium craving appears to quell the
alcohol craving, it may be doubted
whether the Chinese camp women arc
not in this respect more tolerable
than the Waterloo camp women with
their habits of drunkenness. The
same query applies with equal force
to the male practitioners of the opium
vice. It may be very seriously
questioned whether the low' China-
man who has become a slave to
opium is not a very preferable nuis-
ance to the low European who has
surrendered himself to the infatua-
tion for intoxicating liquors.
Perhaps one of the most remark-
able features of these reports is the
testimony which Mr Brennan bears
to the generous disposition of the
Chinese people, as illustrated even by
the dregs of the race who tenant
these camps in affording shelter and
sustenance to the helpless and un-
fortunate of their countrymen. Not
only might Woolloomooloo and
Waterloo, but Darling Point and other
fashionable quarters, take example in
this respect from these festering and
unwholesome camps.


Bristling
Export
i: : *
JM& : -
s® '> '
■
Mi 0 - v \
' : 1
- x - s
:
;v
■ m
...j
Si £s3B
■
'X'i' [ : '\ :;; “V-:®;:':: •
.
mmmmmm.
t %'■
Wm ,v: *
• ;
MMi
.
■ Wi
HBHi
■ n
" .!■:■':
Qantas helps Australian manufacturer of electric
shavers time delivery deadlines to a whisker
Remington Rand (Australia) Pty. Ltd. finds that the best way of meeting trade release dates in
distant Asian markets is to use Qantas Air Cargo. The company always consigns its products with
Qantas, as well as supporting displays and advertising material. And once products are launched,
Remington relies on Qantas to replenish stocks that fluctuate unpredictably all the year round as a
result of the tourist trade throughout South East Asia and the Pacific area. In addition, the company
uses Qantas Air Cargo for the delivery of shaver parts to its factory in New Zealand to keep production
lines on schedule. If you’d like a fast, clean-cut global export schedule with delivery times shaved to
a minimum, why not talk things over with Qantas . . . the airline that knows Australia’s business best.
QANTAS AIK CARGO
43 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
WAYS TO PROFIT BY QANTAS AIR CARGO
1. Compete on level terms with
local producers.
2. Air-freighted samples steal
march on competition.
3. Meet unpredictable demands.
4. Realise sales in remote areas'.
5. Effect stock control economies.
6. Eliminate product obsolescence.
7. Reduce time in which goods
are idle in transit.
8. Minimise packaging costs.,
9. Reduce transport risks.
10. Reduce insurance costs.
11. Enhance control and manage-
ment of goods in transit.
12. Minimise losses through
unserviceable equipment.
13. Obtain maximum usage of
expensive capital equipment.
14. Low, special-commodity rates.
Specify Qantas to your
air cargo agent or call
Qantas Air Cargo TODAY!
QANTAS' EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in association with Air India, 8.0.A.C., S./4./4. and TEAL.
QANTAS AIR CARGO: Qantas House, 70 Hunter Street, Sydney. 'Phone 2-0369.
QAC125.107.123


the Factors’ boards, and how long they
will stay.
It will depend also on the general
public, who, despite the enormous sums
Korman has lost for them, have been
definitely faithful to him. When the
motion for the adoption of the accounts
was passed at the meeting only five
shareholders out ol 90 dissented. Again,
the re-inforced Companies Acts and the
increased vigilance of the stock ex-
changes should have a strong influence
on future pace and direction of Factors.
One would hope so.
TASMANIA
“Not Just
a Farmers’ Party”
A funeral director for the city vote
FROM A LAUNCESTON CORRESPONDENT
J. McEWEN
78 branches
announced by the
Country Party for the coming Tas-
manian State elections underline the
continuing weakness of the fledgling
party. It has formed 78 branches since
its inauguration last year, earning the
praise of Federal leader John McEwen
for its zeal and vigor Its membership
(number unstated) is large. It has drawn
in a lot of Liberals and some Labor
men. But it has conspicuously failed to
proselytise Liberal parliamentarians, and
consequently it still lacks a standard-
bearer for the elections.
For all the despondency which must
be rife in a party that has been in the
wilderness for more than 29 years, the
Liberal members of the House of
Assembly, and even the dissident in-
dependent Liberal, William Jackson,
spurned the Country Party advances. In
the end the party presidency was
accepted by an Independent MLC, C. R.
Best, who earlier had ridiculed reports
that he would take the leadership.
The party’s executive staff is strong.
It has four full-time organisers and is to
appoint three more to its field staff.
Ample Federal funds are reported to
have been passed to the party, no doubt
with the thought that it might pick up
a Senate seat at the next election.
It has enjoyed a good run in the news-
papers, but it has had less Press attention
since the Liberals wisely adopted the
Labor pretence that the Country Party
doesn’t exist.
The candidates endorsed are of ex-
cellent calibre, and their homes are well
dispersed through the electorates. If
they can persuade their supporters to
give preferences to team-mates, instead
of to Liberals, they will have a real
chance of winning four of the 35 seats
in the Assembly. Each Federal division
returns seven members by a system of
proportional representation, but as voters
do not have to put a number beside
every name on the ballot paper the
Liberals fear that some former sup-
porters’ votes will “exhaust” as Country
Party candidates fade out in the
counting.
The party has no chance in the Hobart
division of Denison, so to take the six
seats it hopes for it would have to win
two out of seven vacancies in two of the
other four divisions—a task which seems
beyond it. The rural emphasis is strong
within the Parliamentary Liberal Party,
whose leader and deputy leader are both
farmers.
Perhaps to counter this, Mr Best has
been insisting that “the Country Party is
not just a farmers’ party” And the
best-known of its endorsements, Geoffrey
William Finney, is a leading funeral
director in Launceston. He, and East
Tamar orchardist G. D. Millar and a
north-eastern farmer, C. T. Rattray,
have been selected for Bass.
Four farmers and a departmental
agricultural officer have been endorsed
for Wilmot, and four farmers and a
country housewife will carry the colors
in Franklin.
The endorsements have caused some
ill-will among former Liberals who came
over for political advancement and find
themselves still out in the cold; but the
party’s spirits are high. Morale has been
further boosted by a distinct falling off
in the vote for the three Labor members
of the House of Representatives: Duthie
(Wilmot), Davies (Braddon) and Bar-
nard (Bass), all of whom lost votes to
unknown Country Liberal opponents on
November 30.
GRADUATES
Jobs for
the Boys
Fewer for Lawyers
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
HThe employment outlook for University
A graduates remains mostly fair to
excellent, according to the latest Annual
Report of the Melbourne University
Appointments Board.
Although the overall demand for
graduates rose steeply during 1963, this
trend did not affect young engineering
graduates. For the second year run-
ning, young engineers had less choices
open to them than their predecessors in
earlier years.
Noting this situation in an earlier
report, the board suggested it was due to
a combination of the credit squeeze and
the sharp lift in salaries under the Pro-
fessional Engineers’ Award. In its latest
report, however, the board has elimina-
ted the credit squeeze as a casual factor
and considers that the award is now the
determinant. Employers are practising
economy when it comes to hiring young
engineers and the board believes that
they are only being used in their strict
professional capacities, and not on the
more lavish scale of earlier times.
Science graduates, except in certain
very specialised studies, are generally
easy to place in jobs. There is a strong
demand for honours level physicists, but
those with pass degrees are not so happily
placed. Scientists do not command quite
such high starting salaries as engineers,
but the Board points out that the aver-
age scientist is not so much concerned
with initial pay as with the nature of the
work and the future prospects.
However, the most prized group in
1963 were graduates who had concen-
trated on accountancy. The Board
attributes the heavy demand for univers-
ity-trained accountants to the growing
sophistication of management techniques
in industry and commerce. Probably
the biggest boom is in the field of com-
puter programming, automatic data con-
trol and similar new fields. The Board
describes this field as one of dramatic
expansion. For those with training in
mathematics and statistics, it believes
that the PMG, Defence, Supply and
Treasury Departments will between them
be able to absorb all graduates for work
connected with data processing, com-
puters, experimental design, operational
research and similar duties, and the
demand in industry is equally great.
However, the number of non-technical


graduates entering the Civil Service is
falling. The Board considers that this
is due in part to the continuing transfer
of Commonwealth Department head
offices to Canberra: Melbourne graduates
are reluctant to move over the Murray,
despite the fact that opportunities in
Canberra seem to be at least as good as
those in private industry. In the State
field, the Victorian Public Service con-
tinues to be apathetic about employing
arts and commerce graduates in admini-
strative sections a fact which the
Board obviously deplores.
The group which is mainly missing
out on the rising demand for university
men are the lawyers. The Board reports
a sudden decline in jobs available for
solicitors and describes this as “probably
the most disturbing feature of the year.”
Many graduates who were admitted to
practice in the early part of 1963 found
great difficulty in getting suitable work.
The Board is non-committal as to
whether this is a passing phase or a
permanent trend; however, in self-critical
vein, it promises that it will need to
intensify its work of finding more job
opportunities for these graduates.
It is unhappy, too, about the overall
prospects for women graduates. For
those with specialist training in such
fields as Economics, Psychology, Social
Studies, Accountancy and Mathematics,
there were good opportunities (although
at considerably lower salaries than for
men). However, the problem of women
Arts graduates with “non-vocational”
majors remained. Outside of teaching
or library work (which involves further
study) there was little offering. “It is
still a depressing thought that private
industry will accept a mediocre male
graduate in preference to a really first-
class woman.” The Commonwealth was
prepared to consider women Arts
graduates but, like the men, most showed
reluctance to move to Canberra.
ABORIGINES
The Missionary
v. the Board
After 14 years, the sack
GORDON BRYANT
Privilege?
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
TI/Ir Gordon Bryant, Labor MHR for
Wills (Vic.), plans to bring the events
surrounding the departure of the Rev.
Edgar Wells from the Yirrkala Methodist
Mission in Arnhem Land before the
House of Representatives next month as
a matter of privilege. Mr Wells had been
superintendent of Yirrkala for the past
two years, but before this had over 12
years’ experience in mission work in
other parts of the Northern Territory.
The Methodist Missions Board in Sydney,
which controls Yirrkala, recently trans-
ferred Mr Wells to a post at its Mil-
lingimbi Mission, a smaller station also
in Arnhem Land.
Mr Wells refused to accept the new
appointment and went to Darwin pre-
paratory to flying to Queensland on fur-
lough. Both he and Mr Bryant believe
that his transfer from Yirrkala was a
form of victimization by the Missions
Board arising from differences between
Mr Wells and the Board over the Pec-
hiney bauxite mining venture in Arnhem
Land.
Mr Bryant stated bluntly that Mr Wells
had been removed from Yirrkala because
of evidence he gave to a select Parliamen-
tary Committee set up last year to look
into grievances of the Yirrkala aborigines
arising from the Pechiney bauxite pros-
pecting concession. Mr Bryant is an out-
spoken and active champion of aborig-
inal welfare and was a member of the
select committee. He was also a well-
informed member of it, having previously
visited Arnhem Land with fellow Labor-
ite Kim Beazley (WA) to look into the
probable effects of the Pechiney venture.
In Darwin, Mr Wells referred to his
removal from Yirrkala as a form of
“disciplinary action” by the Missions
Board. He claimed that, as far back as
1958 the Board had indicated its com-
pliance with the bauxite mining plan
which he himself had later criticised.
In setting the privileges machinery in
motion, Mr Bryant depends on the rule
that anyone who intimidates a witness or
penalises him after he has given evidence
to a select committee is guilty of a breach
of privilege. He claimed that the parlia-
mentary privileges committee will be
able to call for correspondence between
Mr Wells and the Mission Board which
will substantiate the charge of victimisa-
tion.
The affair may well prove a baptism
of fire for the new Minister for Terri-
tories, Mr C. Barnes, successor to Mr
Hasluck. Mr Barnes was a member of
the six-man select committee before
which Rev. Wells gave evidence.
THE MARKET
The Consumers
A Seal of Approval
FROM A BRISBANE CORRESPONDENT
VTo one can say that the spirit of
protest is dead in the hearts of
Queensland women. The Queensland
Housewives’ Association, a very wide-
awake group whose demands are feared
and respected by manufacturers and
food preparers, and watched alertly by
Government institutions, is on the war-
path again. The Association’s latest
decision—made last week—is that it will
test retail goods in an attempt to protect
housewives from inferior merchandise.
If the goods are approved, the Associa-
tion will issue a “Seal of Approval” to
fasten to the article.
The Association president, Mrs Gab-
rielle Horan, a politically-minded mother
of three who unsuccessfully stood for the
Liberal Party in the safe Labor seat of
South Brisbane in the 1963 State elec-
tion, said the Association would concen-
trate on foodstuffs in the early stages.
She told The Bulletin that she and
three other home economist members of
the Association would test jams, tinned
fruit, and other foodstuffs in their own
kitchens. “We know how jams are
made,” she said. Some jams have been
“squashy”; some tinned fruits “squashy
and sour”. The Association will offer the
best - manufactured goods its “Seal of
Good Housekeeping”. The Association
has found manufacturers very co-
operative. But if they don’t co-operate,
their goods will be black-listed by the
Association.
The Association does not only deal
with foodstuffs. Its pledge is: “Every
housewife’s problem is our problem.”
For instance, it has investigated a flask
branded “Four pints”. Mrs Horan told
us that in fact it will contain only two
pints.
The Association claims these victories:
Replacement of or refund on stockings
which ladder due to faults in manu-
facture; shelter sheds along Brisbane
tram and bus routes; “zebra” pedestrian
crossings, particularly one for blind
people; improvement in the stitching and
finishing of goods; labelling of bottles of
kerosene and methylated spirit with the
word “poison”—and with the antidote.


PROFILE
Golden Slipper for Cinderella State
Will Charles Court come out of the West?
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Recently the first cotton grown in
the Ord River area was brought to
Perth where it was woven into
somewhat symbolic work-clothes. Amid
a good deal of local enthusiasm and
some scepticism from economists, the
western third of Australia has in recent
years begun what has inevitably been
called a “great leap forward”. Cotton
from the Ord is a symbol of the high
adventure of developing the State’s
north-west, and work-clothes of the
State's growing industrialisation.
Mr Charles Court seems to have been
cast in the role of the Prince Charming
who is trying to fit a golden slipper on
to the Cinderella State. Court, known in
the Eastern States mainly through tele-
vision appearances, has been Minister
for Industrial Development, North-West
Development and Railways since David
Brand's Liberal-Country Party Govern-
ment came to power in 1959. As well
as a full hand of portfolios. Court has
the looks of a latter-day Ronald Colman,
a film star's flair for publicity, a
philosophy picked up from a desk-
calendar, the mind of an adding machine
and the heart of a lion.
But if his strength is as the strength of
ten it is very probable because his heart
is pure. Court appears almost bound-
lessly energetic and ambitious but he is
credited with great loyalty to his Premier.
Court and Brand make a team and
Court may be more acutely aware of
this than Brand. David Brand is almost
certainly a more thoroughgoing politician
and although Court’s background of ac-
countancy and business management
would not any longer make him an
object of suspicion in the West, Brand is
certainly more the average West Aus-
tralian’s idea of the ideal man to represent
the State.
Court, hurrying from one end of the
vast State to the other, juggling the files
of his three departments, selling his
State to the rest of Australia and abroad,
seems to find his job tailored to fit his
talents.
But it has been suggested that Court
might leap over higher honors in his
own State to go to Canberra. He has
already made a large impact outside his
own State, largely because of television
appearances, at which he may be one
of the most successful politicians in the
Commonwealth. But to imagine from
that that he is looking towards Canberra
is to ignore large aspects of Court's own
career and character and to forget some
of the political facts of life in the West.
Court admits that he has “thought
about Canberra from time to time” but
it seems he has thought about it and
then dismissed it. He came to politics
in 1953 when he won the blue-ribbon
seat of Nedlands. The Liberals were in
opposition until 1959 and that, one
might easily think, would be about the
limit of time that someone of Court's
disposition would spend in waiting. If
Court is a capable politician today it is
only because learning politics was a
condition of the contract, the only way
he could begin to do some of the things
he felt should be done.
At the end of last year the Brand
Government, which has a majority of
only one in the House, was putting
through its Industrial Arbitration Bill
which aims at replacing the court with
an industrial commission. Union oppo-
sition was strong and there were sporadic
strikes and finally a complete industrial
stoppage. “If only I could come right
out and say just why Labor is opposing
this bill it would cut out all this wasted
time,” Court said, “But. of course, I
can't. That's politics.” That is not the
attitude of a born politician.
It seems hardly likely that Charles
Court, having in six years got the jobs he
wanted in his own State, would, at the
age of 52, begin all over again in Can-
berra. Even if he went as a picked candi-
date, as the man most likely to succeed,
he couldn’t eliminate back-bench waiting
time altogether.
West Australia has only nine seats
in the House of Representatives. In the
new Menzies Ministry West Australia
has four portfolios out of 25. Hasluck is
now Defence Paltridge retains Civil
Aviation, Freeth is now Shipping and
Transport, and Chaney is the new Navy
Minister. All of these, except Hasluck,
who is 58, are younger than, or as young
as, Court. Who would move aside for
him?
These are the exigencies of politics.
From Court's viewpoint State politics
in a State with its capital more than a
thousand miles from the nearest city
mean a good deal more and are more
closely affected by what Court does in
Industrial Development than by what,
say, Hasluck, did in Territories. West
Australian politics have a sense of pur-
pose which is often lacking in more


developed States. You have only to
compare the legislative record of WA
last year with that of, say, NSW to see
that. And it is too dismissive to say this
is just being a bigger frog in a smaller
pool.
It is clear that many West Australians
would feel a sense of deprivation and
desertion if someone of Court’s standing
“left” them, which is the way they inevit-
ably think of it. WA men who go to
Canberra tend to be lost to their State,
even though they may be perfectly satis-
factory in handling the affairs of their
own electorate. Although Shane Palt-
ridge certainly remembered his home
town when, as Minister for Civil Avia-
tion, he enabled Perth to get its superb
airport in time for the Commonwealth
Games.
Another thing, it is easy, living on the
Eastern side of it, to forget what the
Nullarbor Plain does to people. All the
old jokes about people struggling across
the desert trying to get back to Australia
get some point again. Even in 1963 it
takes some time to get into the minds of
West Australians. For example, they
talk seriously about “exporting to the
East,” but they don’t mean Asia. They
mean the Eastern States. “They make you
feel like a carpet-bagger,” said an East-
ern States businessman on a short trip to
Perth. “You feel they are just sitting
there waiting for you to take them
down.”
Much of the antipathy and suspicion
towards the Eastern States seems habit
rather than anything deeply felt. Seces-
sion is not even a joke any more. But
a residue of this seems to remain in the
deep desire to show the other States what
the West can do.
Court himself must be credited with
a great amount of loyalty to his own
State. He seems to have that mixture
of high idealism and careful husbandry
which was the mark of the pioneer.
Passionate belief
Tt is impossible, seeing him thumping at
A the rich but unexploited regions on
the map of West Australia and hearing
him talk, not to feel that he passionately
believes in what he is doing.
And he seems to have considerable
personal popularity in his own State.
They like the anecdotes of hustling
Charlie “waking up an Earl at eight
o’clock in the morning” when he was on
a selling trip to England.
Court represents the self-made busi-
nessman, almost an entirely new element
in the West, where the pastoralists held
political power and social sway for so
long. Court was good-naturedly indig-
nant recently when a Labor member said
Court had been born with the inevitable
silver spoon in his mouth. Actually, it
was a set of plumber’s tools.
Court was born at Crawley, Sussex, in
1911. He came to Australia at the age
of six weeks. His father was a master
plumber but the family were unassisted
migrants and landed with 30s. The
family lived in Leederville and West
Subiaco, the back-end of Court’s elector-
ate of Nedlands. Court went to local
schools then to Perth Boys’ High, which
he left after passing the Intermediate
Certificate.
Things were hard for the family and
Charles and his only brother, Sydney,
made their contribution to the family
income by selling newspapers. They had
to complete their deliveries before 6 a.m.
because many of their customers were
workers who began their day early but
demanded the morning paper before they
left home. Charles Court in this way
learnt this part of his electorate like
the back of his hand.
Charles Court’s first ambition was to
do law, but lack of family finance made
him compromise with accountancy. He
began work as an articled clerk in a
chartered accountant’s office and studied
in the evenings. In those days he was
already enamored of what has been one
of the loves of his life —the cornet. He
recalls that he used to study until the
early hours of the morning, then relieve
tension with an hour or so on the cornet,
while his brother in the same bedroom
slept the deep sleep of the young.
Court is still a life member of the
Musicians’ Union and proud of his trade
union standing. He was made a life
member of the WA Musicians’ Associa-
tion and when it was taken over by the
union the list of life members was left
intact.
At the age of 15 he carried all before
him at the South Australian band instru-
ment championships (then recognised as
virtually the Australian championships)
by winning the under-!8 solo, the open
amateur solo, the open championship,
the sight-reading championship and the
memorised championship. At the age of
17 he went back to win the champion
of champions.
At the age of 21 he put up his own
plate with no clients, no money and the
family dining-room furniture in his office.
A £4-a-week job as a foundation mem-
ber of the ABC orchestra kept him afloat
during his first year as an accountant.
Later the going got much easier. Court
went into partnership with Mr C. A.
Hendry and Mr H. G. Rae. The firm
developed the management side of ac-
countancy in a way which must have
seemed spectacularly advanced in the
West. Court had six years away from
the business from 1940 to 1946 when he
served in the AIF, rising from private to
lieutenant-colonel. Today the firm ac-
counts for 19 per cent of all the ac-
countancy students who qualify in Perth.
Court has five sons, one in the ac-
countancy firm, one in Elder Smith, the
rest younger. His interests apart from
work are mainly centred on activities
close to his own suburb, including his
local church. The family are all en-
thusiastic sailors. The boys have built
their own boats, which, Court says, “is
good for them”. He lives in the suburb
of Nedlands, part of his electorate of
the same name. It is what is regarded
as an exclusive suburb in Perth, although
that city has fewer evidences of con-
spicuous wealth than other Australian
cities.
The right man
/Charles Court has in no sense been a
one-man band and he would be the
first to deny that he was. He was, per-
haps, the right man at the right time.
Industrial Development and the develop-
ment of the North-West had been talked
about, and dreamed about, in the West
for generations. The first big step for-
ward in industry was when the BP re-
finery was established in Kwinana in
1950. This was, of course, before Court
had gone into politics. David Brand, then
Minister for Works, was chiefly respon-
sible.
Most of West Australia's multi-point
programme for helping new industries
within the State interest-free loans,
free factory sites and so on was set
in motion under A. R. G. Hawke's Labor
Government.
There is no doubt that Court has seen
the vision splendid for West Australia
but his strength may be in handling
detail. His mind moves quickly and prob-
ably disconcertingly for those not used
to him.
The six-point plan has been set: indus-
trial development, agricultural expansion,
development of the north-west and the
tourist trade, exploitation of mineral re-
sources and a stepped-up programme of
developmental public works. But the bal-
ance between these must be maintained
and this to a great extent is Court’s
power and pleasure.
He is flamboyant enough to like a
roll of drums when the big deals the
BHP’s £ 45-million iron and steel in-
dustry, the £ 10-million Alcoa alumina
refinery at Kwinana, and now the initial,
long-awaited £3l-million contract with
Japan to supply iron ore come off,
but he seems almost as pleased when
the little things go right. It is something
to do with the West Australian mentality
again; making things, such as isolation
and distance, which have worked against
you for generations, begin to w'ork for
you.
Because he enjoys detail he likes to
keep things in his own hands, but he
has been looking after his expanding de-
partments for too short a time to judge


POWERFUL SERVANTS OF MANKIND
4.
•«L
1 m
&
impic
CABLES
Power for the Home
through Olympic Cables
The vast range of Olympic wires, cables and flexibles is one of the most comprehensive in the
world. Manufactured to exacting international specifications, Olympic Cables play an important
part In power generation and the application of electric power in industry, communications,
factories, offices and homes throughout Australia. It has truly been said that there is an Olympic
wire, cable or flexible for every electrical purpose.
OLYMPIC CABLES PTY. LTD.
4729


whether he keeps too much in his own
hands for too long.
One anecdote which serves to set
Court in a fairly flattering light is the
signing of the agreement with BHP to
establish a. £ 45-million iron and steel
industry at Kwinana, hard by the £4O-
- BP refinery. This BHP agreement
was, of course, one of the feathers in
Court’s cap as it had been contingent
on an agreement with the Common-
wealth to unify the rail gauge from
Kalgoorlie to Fremantle so that the iron
ore from Koolyanobbing can reach the
smelting works.
Everything was at last set. The As-
sembly had sat practically all night to
pass enabling legislation. Brand and
Court met the BHP executives in the
morning. At about 12.30 Court excused
himself and said he had another appoint-
ment. He went off to his office and
put in half an hour with some local
people who had in mind establishing a
light factory with a capital of about
£20,000. After giving them about half
an hour he ushered them out, giving
them no sign that they had interrupted
him while he was with someone talking
in terms of £45,000,000.
If Court feels some impatience at
the way politics work it might be ex-
pected that he would be no more tolerant
of the civil service. Three departments
might have meant three headaches. How-
ever, Court seems to have got at least the
nucleus of the people he wants to do
the job in his departments without up-
setting civil service susceptibilities too
much. Although none of the State Gov-
ernments is as yet as accustomed to
outside recruiting and the high cost of
first-class people as, say, the Trade De-
partment in Canberra is.
Cutting rail losses
In all his departments Court seems
either to be well served by existing
people or to have been in a position
to get the person he wanted into the
job. The railways when he took over
virtually had the receivers in. Court got
Mr Cyril Wayne from Tasmania, who
had had extensive experience in China
and the Argentine, as Commissioner.
The loss has been cut from £5 million
to £2 million, although it slipped back
to £3 million last year.
Industrial Development was estab-
lished under Hawke but has been en-
larged and re-organised to some extent
under Court. North-West merely had a
liaison officer before Court’s time but
is now a fully-fledged department.
Court also set up the Industries Ad-
visory Committee which virtually gave
the department a board of directors.
Members include Sir Russell Dumas
(who helped Brand with the BP refinery
deal in 1950), Sir Lance Brisbane and
Sir Frank Ledger. “An American said
to me recently, ‘you must have to pay
these fellows a good deal to get them
to work for you,’ ” Court said “I said,
‘Yes, I do and recently I doubled their
fees.’ Actually,” he added, “I pay them
nothing.” This sort of thing shows how
homogeneous and all-of-a-piece West
Australia still is, and how Court knows
how to exploit this. There is a feeling
and an actuality of all in together
that would be impossible to engineer in
the larger States now.
Court has learned to cope with poli-
tics and public servants but he has been
slightly rougher in his dealings with
academics. He has been criticised by
economists both for speeding establish-
ment of secondary industry in his State
and for undertaking the Ord River
scheme.
Although the Commonwealth Govern-
ment never seems to take a step these
days without the nod from its tame
economists, the States put less reliance
on this inexact science. A great deal
of research was done into the physical
aspects of the Ord River scheme, but
the economic basis may not have been
gone into so thoroughly. The follow-
through of finding markets will need all
the expert help Court can muster.
Most recent criticism of the Ord came
from Dr B. R. Davidson, formerly of
Melbourne, who has been a year at the
University of Western Australia. He said
that the scheme could not be justified
on either economic or defence grounds.
Court came back with the claim that
“backroom theories were no substitute
for front-line experience or the pioneer-
ing spirit that conquered problems in-
stead of backing away from them.”
Of course, only time will tell whether
Dr Davidson is justified in his criticisms,,
and whether Court’s indignation was not
a trifle too heated.
Dr Davidson, who recently told a TV
pane? that he left the CSIRO because
his views on the north were not accept-
able to his employers, has now written
a book called “The Northern Myth”, at
present with his publishers.
Another book, by Mr John Hutton,
formerly a research officer with the
London “Economist”, is “The Anatomy
X>f WA Manufacturing Industry . This
is a survey of 172 factories which was
done under a £6OOO State bank fellow-
ship.
Some temperate criticisms of West
Australia’s industrial development policy
were made in the booklet, “Industrialisa-
tion in Western Australia” by Henry
Schapper and M. L. Parker, published
at the WA University Press at the begin-
ning of this year. The booklet suggested
that “the alienation and settlement of
Crown lands and their provisioning with
social services be regarded as part of,
or even as a prerequisite to, the State’s
programme of industrialisation, and be
hastened and be accorded the same vigor-
ous treatment as the secondary sector.”
However, this book does not seem, to
an outsider, to make enough distinction
between popular opinion and official
policy on industrialisation.
For example, some local manufac-
turers develop a “go it alone” mentality,
but this is no part of official policy, and,
of course, as long as Section 92 of the
Constitution, which commits WA to
membership of the Commonwealth com-
mon market, is there, it cannot be.
Charles Court says he does not be-
lieve any industry should be set up in
the West unless it can successfully com-
pete for a share of the West Australian
market against Eastern States’ products;
nor should industries be set up without
regard to present total Australian pro-
duction or capacity. Court regards ex-
porting to the East in this case the
Eastern States as valuable experience
in gaining outside markets. If West Aus-
tralian firms can successfully compete
against the greater resources and mass
production of the Eastern States, then,
he feels, they are learning how to com-
pete in any market anywhere.
Local prejudice
TTowever. Court admits that so great
is the prejudice in Western Australia
against some locally made consumer
goods that it is easier for West Aus-
tralian manufacturers to send them East
where they will at least be accepted,
without prejudice, on their merits. He
instanced a Perth maker of shoes, mainly
for young girls, who sells 90 per cent
of his output in the Eastern States, while
Perth’s young women wear shoes made
in Sydney and Melbourne. But that is
free enterprise and the Brand Govern-
ment is committed to free enterprise.
Another point which Schapper and
Parker made was that although West
Australia is successfully competing
against other countries and the other
States for foreign and Eastern States’
capital, it is not doing so to the extent
that its industrialisation is any faster
than that for the whole nation. But look
at it the positive way, and in the light
of West Australia’s history: WA’s in-
, dustrialisation is now proceeding at as
fast a rate as any other State’s. This
is an achievement, and it is to a large
extent Court’s.
There is still a lot to be done, and
mistakes to be made, but not even
\ Court’s worst enemies would want the
\ farmers to walk off the Ord, or the model
light factories in Perth to go bankrupt
to prove that his vision splendid was out
of focus. That is, if he has any worst
enemies, which he hardly deserves.


OUT AND ABOUT
Smith: "A Painter’s Painter”
Reflections of a Rubinstein wanderer
By RICHARD HALL
T2N years ago a Sydney newspaper
art critic introduced his review 7 of
an exhibition by Eric Smith with
the solemn comment that “sometimes a
young artist appears w'ho seems to pos-
sess the attributes of a good artist.”
While the critic's vague generalisation
could hardly be disputed, his description
of Eric Smith as young was somewhat
misplaced because he was already 33,
had served in the w 7 ar, and w'as married
with two children and a third on the way.
But the critic, although he may have
been somewhat astray on age deserves
some marks for his next comment w'hen
he stated that Smith “gives promise of
even better things to come.” Ten years
ago modern art was still on the defen-
sive. Another critic of that exhibition of
Eric Smith’s defended the paintings even
though they weren’t “beautiful in any
ordinary sense of the word.”
But today although all the battles are
far from won modern art is still good
for light columnist's items on dull days
the major battle has been w 7 on. The
patrons have surrendered. There are still
and there always will be markets for
the gumtrees and institutional portraits
but the big-money patrons now' do not
hesitate to buy modern art. But as the
boom gathered force over the last five
years, with the lemming-like rush of
young painters into the galleries, Eric
Smith, with other older painters, has been
slow to benefit.
The reasons for this are several. First,
Eric Smith has been primarily concerned
with religious subjects in an irreligious
age. Secondly, he was an uncompromis-
ingly abstract painter, thus cutting him-
self off from the church markets. Thirdly,
he was concerned over that period wjth
w'orking on a number of architectural
projects in search of a successful fusion
of the arts. Finally, and probably the
least important, he now sees much of the
work of those years as lacking direction
and just not being good enough.
This combination of factors gave
Smith a minor place in the anthologies of
Australian painting which have been ap-
pearing since the boom began to gather
momentum, hastened by cries of recogni-
tion from English intellectuals who were
finding paintings they could like. He w'as
and to an extent still is a “painter's pain-
ter,” gaining for years his main income
not from patrons but from the judgment
of his peers in contests.
He won the Blake Prize for religious
art four times, the Sulman Prize once,
the Journalists’ Club prize once and fin-
ally, in Australia, 1962, he won the rich-
est prize in Australia — the £ 1300 Hel-
ena Rubinstein Travelling Scholarship.
At the time, referring to the award,
Smith spoke of it as being a “beginning”
for him again.
Now back from overseas, Smith, estab-
lished again in his small weatherboard
home in Woollahra, one of Sydney's
Eastern Suburbs, talks haltingly but still
fluently about his 10 months overseas on
the Rubinstein prizemoney.
To a layman, the essential division in
the Australian art world might appear
to be between the abstract and figurative
painters. But Smith rejects this sort of
categorisation. His Rubinstein paintings
showed a swing back to the figurative,
further reinforced in an exhibition at
Rudy Komon's Galleries shortly after-
wards on the eve of his overseas de-
parture.
Now Smith is unsure which direction
he will take but as sceptical as ever about
easy tags. Out of the mass of paintings
Smith saw overseas his conversation re-
turns to the great Isenheim Altarpiece
of Grunewald at Colmar, now in France.
His argument, or rather feeling of
uneasiness, with the contemporaries is
not on the lines of figurative versus ab-
stract. They are virtually all abstract
painters. The misgivings find their ex-
pression in words like “smooth” and
“slick,” although Smith is still paying
handsome tribute to their technical
achievements in color and design, in this
he includes painters like Dubuffet, Cor-
neille and Tapies. The latter was in the
past a powerful influence on him.
In England Smith said he found “tired-
ness” in comparison to the relative “en-
thusiasm and vigor” among painters in
Australia. Certainly among English pain-
ters Smith thought he detected a sour-
ness towards Australian successes, even
though the boom is receding somewhat.
Still the Australians are still well enough
“in” for Brett Whiteley to go back home
with Princess Margaret and Lord Snow-
don after one opening attended by Smith
in London.
Smith remains one of the quietest per-
sonalities among Australian painters, pre-
ferring to stay at home with his wife
Joy and family and shunning the faintly
chaotic social whirl of the Sydney art
world. In the light of this it was surprising
to find Smith saying that among English
painters it was Francts Bacon who in-
terested him most. Smith runs the off-
beat theory on Bacon that it was the
Nolan boom which brought the intellec-
tuals back into the London galleries
where they discovered Bacon and took
him up. However, the mild Eric Smith
sees no possibility of his following Bacon
into the tortuous labyrinths of his pri-
vate and public agonies.
Where Eric Smith will go he isn't sure
as he keeps stressing. “My next exhibition
may be in three months or ten years.”
Whenever the exhibition comes the pub-
lic in one sense will be lucky to see it
because, on the eve of his departure from
Genoa late last year, Eric Smith, the
former army semi-trailer driver, spec-
tacularly pranged his small Fiat car in
an Italian rural lane, turning it over, but
climbing out with his wife, both unhurt.
An Angel Tips her Halo
Rosemary Dobson’s place among our poets
By PAT WESTCOTT
Eight years ago, following publica-
tion of her third book of poems,
“Child With A Cockatoo,” Rose-
mary Dobson was hailed by J. D. Pringle
in “The Times” Literary Supplement as
“one of the first rank of Australian con-
temporary poets”. The Australian poets
themselves were in the van of critical
praise and came out of their opposing
corners to acclaim her work.
Since then, the critics, the scholars,
and the public “image-makers” have
practically ignored her. While the work
of other poets has been the whetstone


for literary knives, and dissected, lauded,
or mourned, hers has suffered puzzling
neglect. She has achieved prominence
neither through exposure to the probing
television interviewers, nor by offering
opinions on miscellaneous subjects, and
she is not associated in the public mind
with the popular “made-in-Australia”
label.
It does seem extraordinary that a poet
who has been linked at one time or
another with Rossetti (“without his pop-
pied drowsiness”), Browning (“without his
wrestling with his material”) and Blake
(“with his profound, startling innocence
and deceptive simplicity”) should be so
little known in her own country.
Critical neglect of Rosemary Dobson’s
work within Australia is largely a quirk
of fate and just as largely the result of
her own personality. Born in 1920, she
“arrived” as a published poet almost
alongside another poet who was hailed
as “one of the leading poets writing in
English,” Judith Wright, and although it
would be unreasonable to compare or link
their work just because they are women,
or because they are poets, the dazzling
brilliance of Judith Wright has blinded
many to the luminous qualities of the
younger poet.
Many of her fellow poets would dis-
agree that Miss Dobson has been under-
rated at all. The two opposing literary
schools, the “nationalists” and the “anti-
nationalists”, can both find much to
appreciate in her work, and the publica-
tion this month of a considerable pro-
portion of it will give them a chance to
confirm what they have said in the past.
Her work will now be introduced to
a wider public as she has been chosen
by publishers Angus and Robertson as
one of the 12 poets for their “Austra-
lian Poets” series. Already successful,
the brightly covered paperback series was
launched as “a library of the selected
poems of leading Australian poets, past
and present”. Six titles have already
appeared designed for the general reader,
as well as for educational use. Some
have been set as university textbooks.
Sense of wonder
Tn this edition, Rosemary Dobson has
A made a selection from more than 20
years’ writing, previously published in
“In A Convex Mirror” (1944), “The
Ship Of Ice” (1948) and “Child With A
Cockatoo” (1955), the more or less
annual Australian Poetry anthologies,
and some taken from a recently pre-
pared collection not yet published.
Meeting a writer can be a depressing
experience. So often the person does
not measure up to the image created by
the writing. But in Rosemary Dobson
the difference is not daunting. She is a
quiet, gentle and sympathetic woman,
tranquil and secure, yet noticeable, too,
is a sense of wonder, of expectation,
and humor.
She has a clear perception of the
quality of her work, writing little and
remaining critical of what she writes.
In the past 10 years she has been fully
taken up with her young family (she and
her husband, Alec Bolton, who is editor
of the publishing firm of Ure Smith,
have three children and live at Gordon,
in Sydney). Despite some lecturing and
touring for the Commonwealth Literary
Fund and the WEA, she has made few
public appearances.
People who knew her at school or at
university and remember her as a
rather shadowy, elusive figure, keeping
very much to herself, not “buying into
causes” or discussions, are now surprised
to sense the strength and dignity she has
developed since then. She still doesn’t
take on causes, has learnt to eliminate
things that aren’t essential to her or her
work. She is looking forward to taking
up painting again (she studied design
with Thea Proctor and has kept in touch
with most of the exhibitions in Sydney)
when she can give time to it.
When, in her introduction to the paper-
back, she says that Australian poets “do
not tend to gather into destructive
cliques; they write in isolation, giving
their time to poetry and not to the side-
issues of poetry” she could have been
speaking of her own attitudes. She says
she would rather pass over another
writer’s work than write an unfavorable
review of it if she thought it bad. Pos-
sibly this restraint has added weight to
the view of her as “detached” both as a
person and a poet. Australian literary
historian H. M. Green obviously valued
her highly, but perhaps made too much
of the flavor of “detachment” he found
in her work, generalising on a fairytale
image in “Letter To A Friend” to locate
her permanently in an ivory tower. Even
in poems which he would have had the
opportunity to study she was just as
often heavily committed as detached.
Pringle, who classified Australian
poets in two schools, wrote in “Austra-
lian Accent” that Douglas Stewart, the
“undoubted leader” of the nationalist
tradition, had collected around him poets
who naturally belonged to this pattern.
Despite this, Pringle said, Stewart had
encouraged “the delicate talent of Rose-
mary Dobson, whose exquisite reflection
on European paintings, written with
great technical skill, place her more
naturally with the counter-revolution-
aries” (anti-nationalists). He saw as
diametrically opposed to Stewart the
“formidable trio” of A. D. Hope, James
McAuley and Harold Stewart and
stressed that Hope wielded the greatest
critical influence in Australia. After
Rosemary Dobson published “Child
With A Cockatoo,” Hope said of her:
“A distinguished and gifted poet ex-
quisite, exact, a master of the craft and
with a gift of meditative vision”. He
observed the force and purity of some of
her poems and claimed she was “emer-
ging more and more as the most perfect
of our poets”.
Undiscovered humor
"YTo one has said enough about her wit
and humor, and this new collection
will give many people an opportunity to
discover a field in which she stands with-
out peer in Australian poetry. Five of the
eight witty and sparkling dramatic pieces,
“The Devil and the Angel”, which the
poet says gave her more amusement than
any other poems she has written, are
included. She devised colloquies between
the Devil (“whistling inattention” or
“leaning against the lintel airily”) and
the Angel (“smoothing her wings” or
“tipping her halo”) over the souls of
various characters.
Rosemary Dobson’s poetry is the true
result of experience, either of a mental
or emotional kind. She often thinks
about a poem for weeks before writing
it, and once it is written rarely needs to
change it. In her earlier work she man-
aged not to waste any material and could
use all her ideas. Nowadays she finds
she is much more dissatisfied with what
she has written and feels this is often
because she can’t work continuously at
the times when she needs to. Her out-
burst against the pressures of daily life
is conveyed in a recent poem, “Cock-
crow,” which will meet a response in
every creative person, especially women.
Because she is not a prolific writer,
or a spectacular one her poetry is
wonderfully accessible and can be enjoyed
at several different levels her work
over the years has deepened its course
rather than become more eclectic. Her
first major poem was published in The
Bulletin. Called “Australian Holiday,
1940,” it vividly contrasted the peace and
beauty of the Australian scene with the
destruction of war and was a passionate
comment on the times. One of her recent
poems, “Child of Our Time”, is a more
personal plea for humanity, awe-inspiring
and written in awe. It has already found
its way on to the Nuclear Disarmament
platform. These two poems, written
at such a distance, illustrate the way this
poet has deepened her vision her
later poems dwell on her experience of
life and make a positive, assured state-
ment. She has developed a greater
power, an intense and warm humanity,
and a frightening awareness of the
transience of life.


Around Melbourne
MORE BLOOD THAN BEN CASEY
TUI" el bourne has gone blissfully un-
disturbed by any matters of
social consequence this Yuletide,
except for one thing w'hich has roused
us to anger. And this is the banning
of Noddy.
Now, please don’t feign ignorance.
Noddy, Big Ears and Mr Plod are the
creations of Miss Enid Blyton. You
can buy Noddy dolls, Noddy caps,
Noddy games and countless Noddy
books in all the shops. Miss Enid
Blyton must be very close to being
a millionairess. Miss Blyton, Georges
Simenon and Morris West are the
most successful authors of our time.
The matter came right out into the
open just before Christmas, when
the Mornington Shire Council agreed
tc a motion which protested against
the banning of Noddy from the
libraries run by the Peninsula Regional
Library Service.
The librarian of this service, Mr
Ray Williams, w'as blunt. He said the
Noddy books were full of hasty and
sloppy writing, simply not well enough
written for the spending of public
money.
Soon it w'as obvious that Noddy
was barely tolerated in any library.
He was described as “anti-social”,
“debasing”; he w'as even called a
“dill". One correspondent wrote con-
temptuously that Noddy was loved by
children for the very reason all his
desires were satisfied. He cried until
he got what he W'anted, he hated
people who were nasty to him, and
always they were punished.
The fact that one can’t read Noddy
at our public municipal Hilaries
is bad enough, but it does not end
there. After a long search I have dis-
covered that it is impossible to borrow
copies of the complete and unabridged
works of the Brothers Grimm. The
genuine Grimm editions are rejected
as completely as the Blyton. However,
Noddy-lovers, don’t despair. I didn’t
give up. In the midst of a dusty pile
in a second-hand book shop in the
city there w'as a magnificent copy.
It was the literary find of the year.
It was with a real sense of excite-
ment that I sat down at 11.30
that night and began to read. On the
fly leaf was the message, “To Marie
and Sandy from Aunt Ethel and
Uncle Claude, Christmas, 1909.” It
was easy to picture dear little Marie
and Sandy thumbing through the
book on Christmas morning, looking
at the lovely color illustrations of
decapitated heads, bats, owls, hideous
under-nourished w'inged dragons, hags
with bulbous noses . . .
The stories were recognisable, but
the names were different. Cinderella
was called Ashenputtel, because she
always looked so filthy. Then you may
remember that in the Disneyland
version there was a pumpkin coach
and the magic w'ords “Salago doola,
menchika boola, bibbidy, bobbedy
boo” w'ere used when any transform-
ing needed to be done. Well, there
was no fancy pumpkin coach in
Ashenputtel and certainly no bobbedy
boo nonsense.
And when the ugly sisters tried on
the glass slipper there was a most
un-Disneyland version. To make the
slipper fit the stepmother cut the toes
off the first daughter with a carving
knife. Then she cut the heel off the
other daughter. The handsome prince
discovered he had been tricked W'hen
he saw blood pouring on to the snow.
As for the ending, it was lovely for
Ashenputtel but appalling for the
stepsisters. The doves flew down and
pecked out their eyes.
Tndeed, always ingenious and superb-
A ly sadistic ends were devised
for the Grimm villains. In one the
villain w'as rolled down the street in
a barrel pierced with nails. Or take
Snowdrop. Mr Disney called it
‘Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs”.
In our story the beautiful Wicked
Queen told her huntsman to go out
and get Snowdrop and bring back
her lungs and liver as tokens. Actually,
the huntsman brought back the lungs
and liver of a fawn and told the
Queen they belonged to Snow'drop.
These the dear Queen had served up
in pickle, and she ate them for dinner.
In the finish, of course, Snowdrop
won, and our lovely heroine had her
revenge. She made the Queen put on
a pair of iron slippers that had been
warmed to red heat in the fire.
Screaming, the Queen danced in these
until she fell down dead.
Some of the stories are pure Tom
Lehrer. ‘‘The Robber Bridegroom”
was a tale about a robber band that
made a habit of eating the flesh of
young maidens. One maiden, though,
managed to give them the slip. She
hid behind a barrel and there she
found one of the maidens’ fingers
with a ring still on it. The maiden
was missing from the other end of
the finger. To cut a long story short,
she took this finger home and pre-
sented it to the local constabulary.
Obviously, the fairy tales were ex-
cellently devised for making little
Marie and Sandy very good children
indeed. However, if all the others
failed, then there was the story at
the back of the book titled ‘The
Youth Who Could Net Shudder”.
The story was about this youth
who, for some remarkable reason,
was very upset because he couldn't
shudder like the other kids. He was
introduced to every conceivable kind
of bat, raven and ghoul. He was put
in a graveyard for a night. Still no
shuddering. The boy went into a
haunted castle, where he heard fiend-
ish howls and shrieks, saw tumbling
human skulls and shin bones, and
still he couldn’t shudder.
Next, he was escorted to the
gallows, where the bodies of seven
men were swinging backwards and
forwards in the moaning wind. He
stayed there all night, even taking
down all the corpses and stacking
them in a circle to keep himself warm.
The story carried on strongly to
the verge of necrophilia, then ended
with a happy punchline. He wound
up a King, whereupon his beautiful
young w'ife poured a bucket of cold
water over him. And at last he
shuddered.
It was getting late. I slapped shut
the volume of Grimm’s Fairy Tales
and turned on the television. It was
high time that I looked at something
warm and wholesome, like Ben Casey.
BATMAN


04
■
m s m? m
' .rfx y *
• m
. s
*S3S
I > X
m
- m
! -■
V. •»
P
: ■» 4
v *.
:» i!
V. «
I'M. I
■e .
% ''~l
:PW , S : ’"■
IX
m
m-X’
L .4
WsM
fi>
t»’V
’ S
use*
“t-rtX '
4*%.
W&
new' wot-
MENZIES
SYDNEY
AUSTRALIA’S NEWEST FINEST HOTEL
Fully air-conditioned rooms and suites . . .
spacious restaurants, lounges, cocktail bars . . .
arcades of over 200 shops . . . Australia’s
largest hotel underground car park, for 450
cars, plus Menzies 24-hour room service.
Truly, Menzies Sydney is a new world of
sophistication and comfort.
FOR INSTANT TELETYPE RESER-
VATIONS just ring the FEDERAL
HOTEL nearest you:
Brisbane: Lennons, 32 0131; Toowoomba:
Lennons, 2 2433. Melbourne: Menzies,
601581; Savoy Plaza, 62 4141; Hotel Federal,
62 3721. Sydney: Hampton Court, 31 7081;
New Menzies, 2 0232. Hobart: Wrest Point
Riviera, 5 1021. Or book through any travel
agent.
MENZIES SYDNEY
Comfort beckons you in rooms or
suites tastefully furnished, supremely
comfortable. Dial your own individ-
ually-controlled temperature... dial
piped music or news.
§
Newest addition to
FEDERAL
HOTELS
Across the Nation
14 Carrington Street. Cable Address: Menzotel, Sydney. Telex No. 20-443
8391


THE NEIGHBORS
A SHORT STORY BY NORMA HALL
FOR ll'l'Fl Sp
George Oswald Hamilton's Mice. She
found the first one in the cupboard
underneath the kitchen sink and being
a reasonably stable woman said to her-
self as she rinsed out the teapot, “I must
tell George.”
After dinner that night Mrs George
Oswald Hamilton laid her knitting in her
lap and looking up at her husband said,
“George, I found a mouse today.”
George jnoved forward a little in his
chair but did not put down his paper.
“Well, my dear, no need to worry, no
one w'ill want it back.”
The semi-detached house shared by
the Hamiltons and the Bentleys stood
between two vacant allotments at the
end of Plinkett Street. Its front lawn
was divided by a row of zinnias in the
summer and in the w'inter a row of
stock, always carefully planted by Mrs
Charles Bentley. Now, a few feet from
Mrs Hamilton and George, Mrs Bentley
dusted the dining room for the third
time that day. She didn’t know where
the dust came from; it wasn’t as though
Charles were careless and the windows
were kept shut as much as possible.
A week or so later Mrs George Oswald
Hamilton found a mouse in the big
boiler she used to make the soup.
After dinner that night Mrs Hamilton
laid her knitting in her lap, looked up
at her husband and said, “George, when
I went to make the soup today I found
a mouse in the boiler.”
George did not glance up from his
paper. “Bacon bones are better.”
Mrs Hamilton picked up her knitting
and thought to herself that George had
missed the point.
Shortly after Mrs Bentley had pulled
up the zinnias and planted the stock
she was enjoying tea with some ladies
of the church when she noticed a small
head with whiskers pop around the side
of Miss Norton's chair. Mrs Bentley lent
over and, picking up the poker from the
hearth, dealt the rodent a fatal blow.
She deposited the remains in the in-
cinerator and sponged the carpet and the
leg of the chair with antiseptic. After
her visitors had left she made her way
to the local shop where she bought two
mouse traps and half a pound of cheese.
When Charles came in for his dinner
the two traps were set and Mrs Bentley
was feeling rather pleased with herself.
Charles was pleased too.
“You do manage well, Flora, no doubt
about it. Just the same I'll clean out the
garage and the shed over the weekend.”
Mrs Bentley smiled at her husband
and helpmate.
One Thursday afternoon Mrs George
Oswald Hamilton opened the linen cup-
board and saw two mice busily chewing
up the lace cloth Mabel had given her
for her trousseau.
That night after dinner Mrs Hamilton
told George.
“Only nesting, my love.”
Mrs Hamilton's wool fell and rolled
under the chair. “George, they’re ruining
the linen.”
“Everything has its price, my dear.”
As the weeks went by Mrs Hamilton
saw many mice. Sometimes she saw
them in the broom cupboard or run-
ning along the top of the bookcase.
There were several she knew by sight
who liked to sun themselves near the
flower box in the mornings.
One night after dinner Mrs Hamilton
laid her knitting in her lap and said,
“George, we have dozens and dozens of
mice.”
“ ‘Unto those that hath shall be given’
my dear.”
Over the top of his paper George
noticed his wife had developed an in-
teresting nervous disorder.
“George, could we get a cat?”
“Why, my sweet?”
Mrs Hamilton made some quick brush-
ing movements with her hands.
“For the mice.”
“I’m sure there are things they’d rather
have.”
George turned over the page and
started the crossword.
Mrs Bentley had halved her dusting
time and since her husband had brought
home the Mouse-Sak spent a great deal
of time doing the rounds of the house
with a small plastic bucket into which
she dropped inert furry bodies. Charles
had cleaned out the garage and shed
twice a week since the mice first ap-
peared. Neither of them could under-
stand it.
“Must be a plague, Flora. I suppose
it will soon let up and in the meantime
we'll just have to keep at it.”
“Yes, Charles, I've never seen so many
mice.”
“You're a fine woman. Flora. You’ll
turn your hand to anything if needs be.”
As her husband sat down beside her
and began to polish the silver Mrs
Bentley smiled; it was easy to be a good
wife with a partner as helpful as Charles.
On her side of the wall Mrs George
Oswald Hamilton could not sit any-
where in the house without seeing little
faces peiping out from under things
or over the top of things One night
after dinner she laid her knitting in her
lap and said, “George, what can we do
about the mice?”
“A bold question, my love.”
George folded the early edition and
took out the late final extra.
About the time the stock plants had
their tops nipped the mice really made
an impact. Even George noticed it. One
morning when he took his light grey
suit with the dark grey fleck from the
hanger in the wardrobe he saw one of
the legs had been chewed off.
“Nesting again,” he said as he put
the suit back and got out the brown one
with the stripes.
On Wednesday Mrs Hamilton made
her way along McPherson Street towards
the Supermarket on the corner where she
intended to buy a load of canned goods.
She stopped outside Sardling's Sports
Store. In the window w'as a butterfly
net. Pelting through the door Mrs
George Oswald Hamilton snatched it
from the stand and a little later climbed
the steps of her home clutching her
purchase as though it were her most
precious possession.
By five o’clock when she had to stop
and begin preparing the evening meal
Mrs Hamilton had caught seventy-three
mice and locked the lot up in an old
tin trunk her grandfather had taken to
Calcutta in the ’eighties.
After dinner Mrs Hamilton laid her
knitting in her lap. “George, I caught
seventy-three mice this afternoon.”
George, juggling with a partially con-
sumed evening paper, said without rais-


The Tilley Stormlight
is built for action . . .
in all working conditions. One
filling of pints
of kerosene gives twelve
hours of brilliant,
unfailing, light.
For economical everyday
use, and in emergencies,
rely on the
Tilley Stormlight.
fPlfiisf
MANUFACTURER'S REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY FTY. LIMITED
12 Sullivan Street, MOORABBIN, 5.20, Victoria, Australia
- TiiMUHIIIII
/ / A/ /
IOLYSPtI
BEti
OWE
ROCOL ADDS UFS TO YOUR ENGINE
18/6 at your Service Station.
ing his eyes, “That’s nice, dear, every-
body needs a hobby.”
Mrs Bentley had almost given up
dusting; occasionally she managed a few
quick flips but mostly there were more
pressing matters. Two or three times a
day she took everything out of the kit-
chen cupboards and relined the shelves
with clean paper.
All the food in the Bentley home was
kept in screw-top jars and one morning
while emptying the contents of her shop-
ping basket into the appropriate con-
tainers she accidentally tipped one little
packet of Mouse-Sak into the jar labelled
flour. Imperceptibly and deathly the
white powder settled. Mrs Bentley dis-
posed of the empty cartons, scrubbed
out the cupboards and put the jars back
on the shelves.
That evening when Charles came in
from cleaning out the shed his wife was
putting the finishing touches to a jam
sponge she’d made.
“My word old girl, that looks good.”
“Your dinner’s ready now, Charles,
leave it till tomorrow and the icing will
be set.”
Mrs Hamilton spent all the next day
with her net and a tin trunk her grand-
mother had taken with her when she
had accompanied her husband to Cal-
cutta in the ’eighties. Late in the after-
noon she began to experience difficulty
in finding mice. She gave George a cold
sausage for his dinner and that night
roamed the house with her net. Her
knitting, despite the fact she was about
to change from rib to cable, was left in
its wire mesh bag. By bedtime her score
for the day was eight hundred and forty
seven and as far as she could see there
were no more mice in the house.
Her last thought before drifting into
sleep was that she must remember to
tell George.
Had she stayed awake a little longer
Mrs Hamilton might have heard the two
bumps as Mr and Mrs Charles Bentley
fell from their chairs to the floor. On
her way down Mrs Bentley knocked
the jam-sponge from its plate and the
pale grey carpet was stained with an
ugly splodge.
Awoken at dawn by the unaccustomed
quiet George was on his way to fetch the
morning papers when he heard squeaks
which seemed to emanate from the
trunks his wife’s grandparents had taken
with them to Calcutta. George raised
the lids. The ravenous mice shot out and
in a flash what had been George was
four buttons and a tie clip.
Mrs George Oswald Hamilton bought
a block of flats with the insurance
money. She lives in the top one with
three cats and a terrier named Ratter
and, some of her friends say, is about
to marry Mr Stogler the pest extermin-
ator from the other side of town.


MODBURY ESTATE
WHITE BURGUNDY
7 9 6/
mm *:m. ■>
gsgssgsfefsg*
Ndbury estate
ftITE BURGUNDY
I
JrM>.<Ato
This full, rich, white
wine has been pres-
sed from selected
Semilion grapes
grown on the gently
contoured vineyard
slopes of Modbury
Estate which nestles
in the Adelaide
foot-hills. The ap-
pealing fragrance
and flavour of
\ this wine, served
\ cool, enhances
the enjoyment
of cheese, sea-
food, veal and
poultry.
Cxs
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. P/L., MELBOURNE
FORUM
New Guinea’s Elections
No parties and no common language...
From a Special Correspondent
On February 15 next, the voters of
Papua - New Guinea will com-
mence electing the Members of
the Territory House of Assembly. There
are 44 “open electorate” seats and 10
“reserved electorate” seats to be filled.
In the townships and main centres
polling will be restricted to a single day.
In the outlying electorates embracing
the tangled ranges, the remote coastal
plantations, the upland valleys, the great
river swamps and the scattered island
clusters of South-East Papua, voting will
continue until March 18th.
About 400 peripatetic electoral teams
will bring their mobile polling booths
to the villages by aircraft, landrover,
launch, canoe and on foot. Election
schedules will be highly vulnerable both
to the prevailing north-west monsoon
weather conditions and the vagaries of
primitive voters. During the 33 days of
voting all normal field work will vir-
tually halt. Except for those maintaining
essential services, every available patrol
officer, school teacher, agriculturist,
medical assistant, surveyor and forester,
brown and white, will be impressed for
the electoral task, as will every piece
of camping gear and every small boat.
To overcome the porterage problem,
single ballot boxes, with multiple ballot
forms, will be used.
Planning for this gigantic operation
is well advanced. While voting is volun-
tary, registration is compulsory, and em-
braces virtually every sane British-born
or Australian-protected resident deemed
to be above the age of 21.
Recording the potential voters in the
44 electorates, on a village - by - village
basis, has been a major preoccupation
of Native Affairs officers over the past
eight months. This work is now nearing
completion, but, following Australian
practice, the rolls will show only those
persons eligible to vote in the coming
1964 election. In official circles there
is already some uneasy speculation that,
granted the Territory’s hideously diffi-
cult communications, the triennial task
of revising the electoral lists in which
primitive illiterates predominate may
constitute a future administrative em-
bafrassment of some magnitude As one
District Officer put it: Hencelorth we
suspend normal work every third year.”
Belatedly, it has been argued that con-
siderable future labor could have been
obviated by adapting the system Jong
used in the Territory Native Local Go\-
eminent tax/electoral registers, which
list all males above the age of 13, with
an operative column showing the 3 ear
in which the individual is entitled to
vote and liable to pay tax.
Printing of a composite Territory roll
has commenced, although nobody seems
very clear as to what ultimate value
this expensive and time-consuming
operation will have in furthering indi-
genous political development. Under
Territory conditions, electoral officers
will face a variety of identification
puzzles that do not arise in Australia,
The general lack of native surnames and
precise addresses, the whimsical pro-
pensity of the indigenous citizen to use


AIRTEMP
YEAR ROUND
AIR CONDITIONING
iifbt<■ '■
Cools & Heats
right round
Australia ...
and the World.
We would need 120 tons of ice on a summer day to
cool the twelve floors of 505 St. Kilda Road. But it
takes just 35 Chrysler 5 H.P. and 8 H.P. Packaged
Units to do the job.
The advantages of placing a number of packaged units
throughout the building are that each Hoor may be
regulated to a mean temperature chosen by the
occupants of each Hoor—and a service call for what-
ever reason does not interrupt the continuity of cooling
or heating for other people in the building.
Your Airtemp Distributor will show you, for instance,
the job we’ve done for Kodak in Perth, Hotel Australis
in Adelaide, Peak Frean in Sydney and Camden Homs
Units in Brisbane. Or he’ll take you into oflices,
restaurants, council chambers, R.S.L. clubs and
hospitals or private homes that are better places ts
work and live in. This is because they are air
conditioned by Chrysler.
Walter P. Chrysler of automobile fame pioneered ths
packaged system of air conditioning back in 1934.
Since then,Chrysler engineers have evolved economical
units with installation flexibility that has earned
Chrysler an outstanding reputation, for the iinest air
conditioning ever developed.
Tell us YOUR problems.
THE BUILDING DOESN’T
EXIST THAT CAN’T
BE AIR CONDITIONED
BY CHRYSLER
AIRTEMP
PHOTOGRAPH of
505 St. Kilda Road,
Melbourne.
There are Profits in the Comfort Zone when you own Chrysler
Airtemp year round Air Conditioning. Your Air temp Distributor
will be pleased to show you how.
Q’-LD.: Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 620 Stanley St., Woolioongabba. Phone 4 2941
N.S.W.: Strataflo Pty. Ltd., Cnr. Paramatta Rd. & Barr St., Camperdown. Phone 51 6645
A.C.T.: A.C.T. Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd., 14 Yallourn St., Fyshwick. Phone 9 0081
VIC.: Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 29J Moray St., S. Melbourne. Phone 69 7114
S.A.: Chrysler Australia Limited, Airtemp Division, Finsbury , , . Phone 45 3661
W.A.: Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd., 657 Murray St., Perth . • . « » Phone 23 2214
* SPECIAL LEASING
FACILITIES ARE NOW
AVAILABLE. PLEASE
PHONE OR WRITE
FOR DETAILS.
AIRTEMP DIVISION
6
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIA LTD.
.. . • .
. ' t
CM 42


Wr
WITH
SPECIAL KEYING SYSTEMS
f
a ®
Al. A 2.
i:l MK-A
GMK
if M K-8
MK-C
M <0 % ■<©
83. CJ. C 2. C 3
A 3. " BL
cM
ilia
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which operates that lock only and
no other, but the locks are divided into two or more groups. Each group
Is subject to its own Master-Key which opens all locks in that group, but
no other group.
However, all locks are also subject to a Grand Master-Key wh.ch open 3
all locks in all groups. , ,
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike groups may also be included
in G.M.k. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM
YOU NEED CARRY ONLY
ONE KEY INSTEAD OF
HUNDREDS!
REPLACING INSECURITY
AND CONFUSION WITH
* MAXIMUM SECURITY,
t MAXIMUM
CONVENIENCE!
In industry and commerce today a Lockwood MK System is an essential
pre-requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade
and Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part
of the building, plant, or organisation. . „ .
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are
held on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries
enabling quick replacement of lost keys or damaged locks "true to code", and
ailovring absolute control of additions or extensions to the system.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss
Master-Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty,
Limited at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention,
IPC* OP
iTmzAukm&C
Manufactured in Australia by
OGDEN INDUSTRIES PTY. LIMITED
Brisbane 7-3047 • Sydney LM 3191, L.M 3186 * Canberra 4-4098 *
Adelaide W 2153 • Perth 23-2214 • Hobart 3-3141 * Melbourne 569-0611
at different times any one of several
soubriquets, the bewildering repetition
of a limited number of names that
occurs within a particular linguistic group,
the widespread custom of changing one’s
name on migration, or following the
death of the ancestral name-holder
most of these problems can be solved
at local level by an electoral officer
equipped with a sectionalised roll com-
piled in a village-by-village sequence, and
with village elders standing by. But at
the central level the lack of local iden-
tification aids, not to mention the high
frequency of typographic errors that in-
evitably occurs in transposing native
names, would probably frustrate the
most earnest party scrutineer even if
the Territory elections were being con-
tested on a party basis.
Again, following Australian practice,
a gallant attempt will be made to cater
for absentee voters, including the thou-
sands of illiterate migrant laborers who
may prefer to vote for the candidate
back in Chimbu, but are currently work-
ing at Kokopo under entirely different
names. When last questioned about how
he proposed to handle certain absentee
voter problems, the chief Electoral Offi-
cer was reported to have made inco-
herent noises as he walked away.
Voting will be voluntary, and on a
modified preferential system. Illiterate
voters may seek the assistance of elec-
toral officers in recording their selec-
tions. The Electoral Ordinance pro-
vides that a ballot paper will not be in-
valid through failure of the voter to
fill in all the preferences. In many elec-
torates this arrangement may yield re-
sults equivalent to a “first-past-the-post”
system, which is not particularly demo-
cratic in an electorate comprising sev-
eral small ethnic groups, each of them
apt to produce a candidate. As nomina-
tions for the House of Assembly elec-
tions did not close until January 6, final
figures for candidates are not available,
but it seems certain that some seats will
be contested by at least halt a dozen
aspiring statesmen from different lin-
guistic groups who, one way or another,
will raise the £25 deposits required.
The potential prize is worth the
gamble. The “Parliamentary Allowances
Ordinance” of 1963 provides that se-
lected Members of the House, Parlia-
mentary under-secretaries and members
of the Administrator's Council “shall be
paid such salaries and allowances as the
Minister determines.” It is understood
that one of Mr Hasluck's last executive
decisions as Minister for Territories was
to fix the salaries of ordinary members
at £9OO per annum, and of under-sec-
retaries (the “Parliamentary Under-Sec-
retaries Ordinance” provides for a maxi-
mum of 15 under-secretaries) at £l3OO
per annum. To the relatively advanced
Motuan civil servant or Tolai cocoa
farmer, these emoluments are lucrative.
To the village headman of the Southern
Highlands or the Upper Sepik, where
the average per capita cash income is
probably no more than £3 per year, an
annual salary of £9OO is riches beyond
the dreams of avarice. The ultimate
impact of this simple economic factor
on indigenous political strategy is diffi-
cult to predict, but it could produce
techniques reminiscent of oid Tammany
Hall. Thus the member for remote
Telefomin could well afford to disburse
£5OO of his annual salary on throwing
parties for his constituents. In the back
blocks of New Guinea you can buy a
lot of pigs for £5OO.
Thus far, the Administration seems
to have been curiously reluctant to set
about explaining to a generally illiterate
and politically inexperienced electorate
just what the powers and functions of
the House of Assembly will be. Gross
misconceptions almost certainly exist. In
an adjournment speech in the Legisla-
tive Council last September, Mr Stuntz,
the elected Member for East Papua, al-
leged that many natives regarded the ad-


ANSETT FREIGHT
EXPRESS
AUSTRALIA WIDE DOOR-TO-DOOR
TRANSPORTATION BY-
ROAD • RAIL • SEA • AIR
Ansett Freight Express caters for the smallest
to the largest shipper.
Consignments from 1 lb. upwards. Ring for
service and competitive rates.
For further particulars phone:
Melbourne 68 0541 • Sydney 67 0533 * Adelaide 45 5337
Canberra 9 4091 • Brisbane 47 1481 ’ Perth 24 4926
9756 N Tasmania -Devonport 2 2659 • Darwin 2957
vent of an indigenous-dominated House
of Assembly as a sort of declaration of
independence which would immediately
enable the lowly black man to take over
all the wealthy white man’s assets (in-
cluding Mr Stuntz’s plantation), and
thereafter lead a life of ease and plenty.
But when the elections are over, what
then? The House will comprise 64 mem-
bers. Of these, 10 will be appointed
officials, and 10 will be non-native from
the reserved electorates. Of the 44 “open
electorate” seats, perhaps eight may be
filled by non-natives, but this is by no
means certain. On any pattern of proba-
bilities, at least 25 of the “open” seats
will be occupied by illiterate tribal lead-
ers, unable to speak English, quite un-
versed in parliamentary procedure or in
the elements of public administration,
and possibly not even conversant with
Melanesian Pidgin or Motu. Neither is
it probable that the indigenous members
will initially exhibit any marked degree
of racial solidarity. No viable political
party system is yet on the Territory hori-
zon, and the African type of emotional
anti-White nationalism has not yet
emerged. (It was the lack of this factor
which perplexed and frustrated the Afro-
Asian member of the last UN Visiting
Mission, and prompted the switch from
“target dates” to a common roll fran-
chise.)
At least in the early sessions of the
House (which will run for three
years) the more experienced European
politicians, both official and elected, may
be expected to exploit to the optimum
the distrust of the Highlanders for the
Islanders, and the latent contempt with
which the Papuans and New Guineans
regard each other.
Until the actual membership of the
House is known, it is fascinating to specu-
late on the possibilities for political man-
oeuvre, but impossible to predict with
any certainty just how the pattern will
congeal. Thus, assuming he is elected,
the ebullient Mr Downs of Goroka, an
astute ex-District Commissioner turned
coffee planter who has served two terms
in the Legislative Council, will probably
come in with at least 17 Highlands
votes at his command. But, despite Mr
Downs’s tireless efforts to develop a
common front with native coffee grow-
ers through the Highland Farmers and
Settlers’ Association, the awkward fact
remains that the interests of indigenous
small-holders and European planters are
not really in harmony.
Again, and assuming that he is
elected, Mr John Guise, the most arti-
culate and politically aware of the
native members of the last Legislative
Council, will doubtless endeavor to w'eld
the indigenous members into a voting
bloc. In this task his linguistic ability
(he is fluent in English, Motu, Pidgin
and several Papuan languages) w'ould
be a distinct asset, but his mixed race
Papuan origin would probably not en-
dear him to the New Guinean villagers
who will be numerically dominant. The
most probable lines of evolution within
the House will be a slow separation of
the elected whites and browns into
vaguely opposed camps, with uneasily
shifting alliances.
Representatives of the various Work-
ers’ Associations the incipient trade
unions may be expected to operate
as an embryonic Labor Party, but their
numbers are small, they are widely
spread geographically, and their special
interests have little in common with
those of the rural members who will
constitute the majority of the House.
Somehow or other, with a minority
of 10 in a House of 64, the Administra-
tion has to win acceptance of its policies
and programmes. Thus far, there has
been little overt official recognition of
the fact that when the House of As-
sembly convenes in late April or early
May, the Administration - and the
Australian Government will be facing
a unique situation, calling for radical
departures from hallowed British par-
liamentary norms.
The enabling legislation enacted to
date is pretty orthodox. It serves to
illustrate the difficulty experienced by the
policy-makers in envisaging a parlia-
mentary and cabinet system divorced
from party politics, and requiring austere
simplicity in procedures. There are
ample grounds for believing that one of
the major contributing reasons for the
short unhappy life of British-type parlia-
mentary democracy in most of the for-
mer British colonies has been simply
that the Westminster system bequeathed
by the British was largely incomprehen-
sible to their African and Asian heirs.
It is of vital importance to Australia
that her bold Papua-New Guinea ex-
periment avoid the pitfalls of unimagina-
tive traditionalism.
From Australia’s viewpoint the essen-
tial function of the House of Assembly
will be to train popularly elected repre-
sentatives of the New Guinea people in
the fundamentals of democratic govern-
ment and public administration. Any
practice or procedure; however hallowed
by parliamentary tradition, which im-
pedes the attainment of this objective
needs to be scrapped.
If the House of Assembly is to make
sense to the majority of its members, its
first task should be to devise Standing
Orders that are readily comprehensible
to an intelligent, illiterate villager. In


WE SUPPLY
EXPLOSIVES Log-splitting and
post-hole guns. Powder and fuse
for same. Blasting mats. Tamping
rods. Magazines. Carrying boxes.
Exploders and all accessories.
STEAM VALVES Everlasting
valve. Particularly suitable for
boiler blow-off or full on.
WATER FILTERS For farm,
household and industrial use.
TUYERES Hot air for forges.
MINING Curvilinear tables for
ore concentration. Classifiers. Rapid
magnetting machines.
TOOLS Barrows, pinch and other
bars. Jumpers, mattocks, picks,
handles, shovels, quarry tools, road-
lamps, etc.
ENQUIRIES TO
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, H.S.W.
approaching this task the starkly simple
rules of debate followed in native local
government council meetings could serve
as a useful guide. Innovations such as
insertion of an additional reading stage
of a bill, devoted to explanation, with
normal rules of debate suspended, may
well be warranted.
The Administrator of the Territory,
who was President of the Legislative
Council, and perhaps the only man w'ell
versed in procedural matters, will not
be a member of the House of Assembly.
It will elect its own Speaker. The party
politics image of the Speaker as an aus-
tere, aloof, and more-or-less impartial
ring-keeper just does not fit a House
with no political parties and dominated
by uncomprehending hillmen In this
particular context the Speaker must be
free to explain, to exhort, even to cajole.
He must be fluent in at least one of the
vernaculars. To be functionally efficient,
his role will need to vary widely from
that of the Speaker in the House of Rep-
resentatives.
No Party System
TTnder the old system, the Administra-
tor’s Council, comprising both offi-
cial and elected members, made regula-
tions but did not decide policy. Admini-
stration policy has been mostly dictated
from Canberra, but at Territory level
was decided by the Central Policy and
Planning Committee —all officials. The
decision has now been made that the
Administrator’s Council, enlarged, but
composed as before of both official and
elected members, will function as a
Cabinet. Presumably the Administrator
will continue to preside over this body
although he will not be a member of
the House. Without a party system, this
arrangement raises some peculiar prob-
lems. Mr John Guise, for one, has
already served notice that if elected he
would not be prepared to tie himself to
the Administration’s policy chariot,
which ht has stated would be tantamount
to committing political suicide.
Similar considerations arise in con-
nection with the appointment of under-
secretaries. The basic idea in providing
for these posts is, presumably, to give
bright elected members the opportunity
to learn something of how Government
departments work. The appointees can-
not be regarded as promising young pols
holding safe seats and being groomed
for higher things within the party. There
is no party structure. As a training con-
cept, the under-secretary idea has merit,
but needs to be put into clearer focus.
The Ordinance provides that under-
secretaries shall be appointed by the
Administrator, and that they will be
required to take oaths of secrecy. Here,
again, Mr Guise has clearly indicated
that he will not be a party to any system
W'hich automatically ties elected members
to the Administration. It is logical to
anticipate that many—if not most —of
the elected members will share his
views.
Without the support of at least 23 of
the elected members the Administration
will not be able to effect the passage
through the House of any of its legisla-
tion. Its best course would therefore
seem to lie in having both the elected
members of the Administrator's Council
and the under-secretaries elected by the
House itself. Experience at local govern-
ment level has indicated that the average
native leader is a fairly sensible fellow
.willing to accept advice from officials
he trusts. Granted some good liaison
work, it should not be difficult for the
Administration to convince the in-
digenous elected members of the need
for the House Executive to include the
key official members the Treasurer,
Secretary for Law, and so forth. The
tactical advantages of this approach,
which is analogous to the working
relationship between the supervising
officer of a native local government
council and the council’s elected ex-
ecutive committee, are obvious. The
only alternative method —to gamble on
obtaining a Government majority by
manipulating Cabinet and Under - Sec-
retary posts —would be almost certainly
foredoomed to failure, and could rapidly
promote indigenous distrust of the Ad-
ministration.
Legal Jargon into Motu
Tn the recently dissolved Legislative
A Council, the official language was
English, which was spoken by several of
the 12 indigenous members. Hansard
reporting was carried out on an ad hoc
basis by teams of Administration steno-
graphers. Translation, for the most part,
was again mostly handled on an ad hoc
basis by squads of young Native Affairs
officers. (The prerequisite to efficient
English/Pidgin translation is complete
fluency not only in the vernacular but
also in idiomatic English—an attribute
possessed by very few indigenes.)
In the new House of Assembly the
problems of translation and of Hansard
recording will be greatly aggravated.
On probabilities, the language most
common to members of the House will
be Melanesian Pidgin, in which none
of the Hansard stenographers is pro-
ficient. It is also understood by only a
few of the Departmental heads who,
presumably, will comprise the 10 official
members. Tape-recording of debates
will not solve the translation problem.
It may eventuate that the new House
will plump for Melanesian Pidgin as
its official language. While Pidgin is
more flexible than many of its critics
suppose, it is horribly imprecise. Trans-
lating the legal jargon of bills into
either Motu or Pidgin already con-
stitutes a problem to which no neat
solution has been found. Beyond this is
the question of whether, at least during
the first three years, the maintenance
of Hansard at a complete verbatim
record will be worth the trouble and the
expense. A summary record should
suffice.


OVERSEAS
Confrontation’s Weird World
Singapore suffers while Hong Kong profits?
From DENNIS BLOODWORTH in Singapore
Britain, having committed nearly
7000 troops to security operations
in Sarawak against gangs of ban-
dits ranging from Indonesian territorial
troops to hard-core Chinese Commu-
nists, has asked her NATO allies to stop
supplying arms to Djakarta with in-
different results.
The Dutch have reportedly refused
the request, reminding the British that
Whitehall did not respond to a similar
appeal from the Hague when the Indo-
nesians were “confronting” Netherlands
New Guinea. General Abdul Nasution,
the Indonesian Minister of National Se-
curity, is able to claim: “All our arms
contracts with Western countries are
being implemented,” and speaks in par-
ticular of “expanding Franco-Indonesian
economic co-operation” in the same con-
text.
Britain can hardly complain. In her
own Crown Colony of Hong Kong the
yards are repairing and maintaining In-
donesian ships, and merchants are openly
welcoming prospects of better business
with Indonesia at the expense of Singa-
pore, although there are signs of White-
hall pressure to prevent Hong Kong
from profiting from Singapore’s plight.
On the other hand, Malaysia herself
is prepared to allow the Shell Oil
Company to use storage tanks on Fed- -
eration territory which would enable it
to ship and distribute “white oil” from
South Sumatra at low cost, to the direct
financial benefit of Indonesia. It is the
Indonesians who have forbidden their
use.
Tt is argued that it is in the interests of
A Britain and Malaysia to minimise the
effects of confrontation, that the less
they retaliate the sooner tempers will
subside and the more London and Kuala
Lumpur will remain “in the right” in
the eyes of the world. If Britain acted
hastily, London experts add, she might
lose assets in Indonesia v/orth £l6O
million stg.
Moreover, British forces in the Far
East are almost fully engaged in the de-
fence of Sarawak, and since it takes any-
thing up to ten men to neutralise one
guerrilla, the Indonesians may with rela-
tively little effort pin down all available
British troops and the entire Malaysian
army besides, in a long, profitless jungle
war.
Meanwhile Kuala Lumpur may be
cushioned against confrontation but
Singapore, a commercial community of
fewer than 1,800,000 people, is losing
more than <£2 million in net trading
profits every month thanks to the econo-
mic boycott, and officials predict a tough
time for the island if the present struggle
does not end before March.
Numerous ships that formerly traded
with Indonesia are idle, and as stocks
run out, 121 plants that process Indo-
nesian rubber, coconut oil, coffee, sago
and other industrial crops may have to
lay off more that 8000 workers,
The Indonesians are already feeling
the pinch badly on their side. Dr Sub-
andrio, the Indonesian Vice-Premier, has
virtually admitted that the entire pro-
gramme for stabilising the country’s
shaky economy has fallen to the ground
for lack of massive foreign mainly
American aid that was withheld once
confrontation began.
But no local economist believes that
Indonesia will “go bankrupt”.
For all these reasons a political solu-
tion to the present costly deadlock must
be negotiated.
But Malaysia does not practise a
consistent policy of calculated, states-
manlike forbearance. While refraining
even from effective economic reprisals,
Kuala Lumpur nevertheless enrages
Soekarno and the Javanese masses by
burning him in effigy all over the
Malayan peninsula, and returning in
kind the gross insults hurled at the
Tunku by Indonesian radio stations. The
Tunku also bluntly rejects feelers from
Manila which could lead to a reconcilia-
tion between Malaysia and the Philip-
pines and so isolate Indonesia from her
hitherto anti-Malaysian partner. Critics
of the British and Malaysian Govern-
ments contend that they should act
tough but be ready to talk, and point
out that they seem to be neither “playing
for keeps” nor making any diplomatic
demarches in order to reconcile Indo-
nesia to the existence of Malaysia.
enmity for the young Fed-
eration of Malaysia springs partly
from the fear that Sumatra and other rich
outer islands of the Indonesian Republic
might be tempted to try to desert to her
more successful and prosperous neigh-
bour, and that through subversion and
even military encroachment the Malay-
sians would encourage this process.
What is required is an honest broker
who will act as intermediary between
the two antagonists so that the formula
can be worked out for a reciprocal treaty
that would offer Indonesia the security
guarantees and territorial safeguards she
craves and preferably be underwritten
by the Great Powers and Indonesia’s
other neighbours.
On the other side of the coin is
Indonesia’s expansionism, Soekarno’s
dream of a twentieth-century Malay
empire and the intransigence of the
Communists.
The spirit of this positive, ambivalent
strategy is discernible in Singapore,
where the Prime Minister has publicly
spoken of the ultimate necessity of an
understanding with Indonesia, while Dr
Goh Keng Swee, the Finance Minister,
has warned that any country that “goes
out of her way” to assist Indonesia in
her economic confrontation with Malay-
sia may find the port and market of
Singapore closed to her ships and
produce.
Since Singapore is the greatest entre-
pot in this entire region, the threat is
not to be shrugged off. Dr Goh was
particularly thinking of the Dutch, who
have considerable business interests in
Malaysia, but are both supplying carrier
shipping for the distribution of Indo-
nesian produce and processing Indones-
ian rubber in Holland so that it can be
marketed in Europe at slashed prices.
But so far the Anglo-Malaysian vic-
tims of Indonesia’s implemented “bare-
faced aggression” have no effective
policy to end it. They are not dis-
couraging Djakarta’s antics by invoking
the cold mosaic law of tit for tat, nor
on the other hand are they apparently
doing anything constructive about restor-
ing goodwill in order to end this futile
exercise in mutual impoverishment.
(OFNS.)


letters
to the
editor
ART IN PERTH
Sir,
Nobody who knows Perth well would
wish to dispute Patricia Rolfe’s general
conclusions about Perth’s lack of en-
thusiasm for contemporary painting
(30/11/63). However, it is a matter for
regret that she fails to do justice to some
of the minorities actively interested in
paintings and that she should suggest that
Perth is fundamentally different from
other Australian cities including Syd-
ney in its attitude to art generally. A
few minutes in the State Gallery is enough
to demonstrate that it has a remarkably
representative collection of contemporary
Australian paintings, and rather more
thorough enquiries would have revealed
that the Skinner Gallery’s sales are dis-
tinctly better than stated. Nolan’s Empire
Games exhibition sold out, as did exhibi-
tions by Daws, and in recent months
Friend, Sibley and Fulbrook have sold
well.
Some of our local painters do throw
away their work at street-barrow prices.
That isn’t unusual. There was a time, not
so very long ago either, when you could
buy early Nolans in Sydney for next-to-
nothing and there must be thousands of
Sydney art-lovers wishing they had. The
same thing is true in sculpture what
prices did Meadmore get before he gave
up and went to New York, and could
Klippel make a living in Sydney five
years ago?
ALLAN EDWARDS
Nedlands (WA ).
WRITERS OF INDONESIA
Sir,
I feel that it is necessary for me to
comment on an article written partly
about me by Professor Johns on “The
Writers of Indonesia” (14/12/63). The
short story which he mentioned is called
“Van Buren and the Village Girl"’, and
was published in a collection of my short
stories. It is set in the background of the
years 1946-55, the latter years covering
the election campaign period. It revolves
around contrasting human traits; a con-
trast between humanitarianism and the
fate of one whose nature is at the oppo-
site pole.
Prof. Johns says that in post-war mod-
ern Indonesian literature two character-
istics can be distinguished, namely: moral
purpose and symbolism. It is true that
the moral purpose of my short story
can be summed up briefly as “love for
God and for mankind which guarantee
the preservation of human values”. But
a misunderstanding is possible if, when he
discusses its symbolic significance, people
assume that the term “desert” and refer-
ence to “all that is stagnant and depres-
sing in Indonesian political life” alludes
to present-day Indonesia, because the
story has no connection at all with the
current Indonesia. It was written some
time in 1956. It was published in a maga-
zine about that time and was not gener-
ally made available until the book came
out in 1961. It is this latter fact which
may give rise to the confusion and to the
belief that the Indonesia of today is be-
ing discussed.
I have been prompted to write this
explanatory note particularly because of
the last paragraph in Prof. Johns’ article,
which reads:
“The courage of men such as Achdiat
is still making its way underground and
may, in the long run, be a decisive factor
in the making of a new Indonesia.” This
could give rise to a misunderstanding, as
if I were engaged in underground activi-
ties to overthrow the present Indonesian
Government. I have neither the desire,
capacity nor interest to do this. I am here
as a lecturer interested in cultivating a
knowledge of my country’s literature and
language among Australian students and
as an individual in improving relations
between our two countries on a personal
level.
ACHDIAT K. MIHARDIA
Canberra (ACT).
NO QUIZ KID
Sir,
Please convey my thanks to your TV
critic, Frank Roberts, for his kind com-
ments about Any Questions? in The
Bulletin (21/12/63).
Just one correction, for the record:
I did not spend my childhood as a Quiz
Kid. I’m afraid I was never, nor am I
now, brainy enough for that.
CAROLYN RERNTSEN
Sydney (NSW).
“INDIA TODAY”
Sir,
Peter Coleman (“India Today,”
16/11/63) says it would have been better,
and would still be better, for India to
concentrate more on increasing the pro-
duction of consumer goods and less on
costly heavy industry that may not pay
off for many years. This criticism he, of
course, heard across India, but he him-
self has not bothered to study the sub-
ject. I give below an answer to his
criticism by Maurice Zinkin: “The
emphasis on steel and engineering in
the Indian Plans is absolutely right,
whatever doubts one may sometimes
have about the particular priorities given
to particular plants. It is right for many
reasons. First, India is naturally one of
the world’s cheapest steel producers,
since it has high quality iron ore in
reasonable proximity to coking coal and
a good labor supply.
“Secondly, India has a steadily grow-
ing demand for steel, and the supply has
never yet exceeded the demand, nor is it
likely to do so except perhaps for a few
months just when new plants come into
operation. Thirdly, India has a teach-
able labor force and a growing tech-
nically educated professional class.
Added to cheap steel, this is the neces-
sary basis for an engineering industry.
“Fourthly, since India finds it so
difficult to increase its exports, it must
reduce its imports. The quickest way of
doing so is for India itself to make the
steel and the capital goods it at present
imports. Fifthly, the raw materials for
the steel and engineering industries are
almost entirely available in India. The
raw materials for many consumer goods
industries would have at least in part to
be imported.”
Maurice Zinkin was commissioned to
write the book “Why Help India?”, from
which the above is quoted, by the Over-
seas Development Institution (England)
under the chairmanship of Sir Leslie
Rowan.
P. S. THIAGARAJAN, B.E.
Secretary, India League of Aust.
Sydney (NSW).
CHRISTMAS CHEER
Sir,
The Bulletin, in bygone days noted
for its humor, gave us the laugh of the
week (21/12/63) by illustrating an
article on the Vatican Ecumenical Coun-
cil with a full-page advertisement for a
well - known alcoholic stimulant, the
name of which is colloquially known as
the Pope's telephone number.
Congratulations on an unintentional
drop of Christmas cheer!
E. C. HARRIS
Middle Park (Vic.).
NUCLEAR MIGRANTS
Sir,
With regard to your article, "Nuclear
Migrants Mostly from America'’
(16/11/63), I doubt very much if fear
of the atom bomb is the real reason for
these people leaving this country. Per-
haps as teachers they might think that
the Australian equivalent of the PTA
might permit them somewhat more
liberty of expression, or perhaps they
feel they can lead a fuller life in Aus-
tralia.
As to lack of opportunities in the
USA, I should say there are less oppor-
tunities now than there have been in
the past. (Automation is devouring jobs
at the rate of 40,000 a week.)
Vance Packard in "The Status Seekers”
observes that the “American Dream”
has become somewhat tarnished in
recent years; the one-class society con-
cept of the US is simply no longer true.
Nowadays it takes a college degree to
reach the higher echelons, not to mention
a substantial bank balance and the
right “contacts”. A young man pump-
ing gas for one of the major oil com-


panies may rise to station manager, but
without a college degree he will never
make it to the front office.
Mr Packard goes on to point out that
despite the obvious barriers, such as
lack of cash and family background, the
myth that anyone with enough push can
rise to the top still exists. This, he says,
accounts for a lot of the frustration
among the youth of America today.
JOHN T. EKIN
Los Angeles (Cal.).
INDONESIA
Sir,
Your articles on Indonesia (14/12/63)
should make interesting reading to any
Australian —especially to those who, like
myself, have spent many years in that
country. The series presented a fair,
unbiased appraisal by a diversity of
rather competent authors. Mr Frank
Knopfelmacher in his letter (28/12/63)
does not seem to think so; on the
contrary, he offers some quite bellicose
advice to your readers concerning how
to “deal” with our neighbors. Fortun-
ately, your readers will be able to form
their own opinions on that matter. I
would merely like to hold up to critical
examination a few of the premissae on
which Mr Knopfelmacher bases his
views:
(1) “An utterly corrupt and incom-
petent ruling class.” Malaya has a
ruling class of sultans and princelings,
not Indonesia. The old feudal houses of
Java, Sumatra and Kalimantan, etc.,
have no influence whatsoever left in
present-day Indonesia not in public
life. If anything, the lack of the moder-
ating influence of such a ruling class is
being felt in Indonesia's political life.
(2) “Impoverished peasantry.” As
everywhere else where inflation is con-
tinuously depreciating the currency, it is
mostly felt as an impoverishing factor
by the city-dwellers; the peasantry, being
more or less self-supporting, at least as
far as food and “housing” goes, is much
less affected by it.
(3) “Growing Communist Party.” One
would be greatly indebted to Mr Knop-
felmacher for citing authoritative and
comparative figures for Communist Party
membership in Indonesia, shall we say,
for the years 1948. 1950, 1955, 1959
and 1962, with indication of specific and
serious sources.
I, for one, believe that the most im-
portant factor in keeping Communism
contained in present - day Indonesia,
especially in the rural areas, and islands
other than Java in general, is the Islam,
and the übiquitous Moslem village
teacher. In this respect the Army,
although its actions are sometimes more
spectacular, comes only second in im-
portance.
L. F. de Gidro
Pymble (NSW).
Sir,
The first sentence of the fourth para-
graph of my letter headed “Communists
in Indonesia” (28/12/63) contains a mis-
leading printer’s error. “A precondition
for Indonesian Communism” should read,
of course, “A precondition for the con-
tainment of Indonesian Communism ...”
FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
Melbourne (Vic.).
ACTRESSES
Sir,
Kevon Kemp (28/12/63) deplores the
fact that Sydney is “short of actresses
who look the part” whatever that
phrase might mean, seeing that actresses
are called upon to “look” so many
different parts. Continues K.K.: “A
pretty actress is a fine thing, and a
beautiful actress is a damned fine thing.”
The music hall leer, like the Cheshire
Cat’s grin, seems to hang, disembodied,
on Mr K.
CATHERINE KINWAN
Sydney (ASH 7 ).
“THE JEWISH VOTE”
Sir,
Two matters arise from the article
headed the “Jewish Vote” (21/12/63),
in which you summarised my contri-
bution to a recent issue of “The Aus-
tralian Jewish Herald” on the recent
Federal election.
In the first place, whatever the many
official associations with the Jewish
community which, in the past, I have
enjoyed, I cannot claim to be a member
of the present Jewish Board of Deputies.
In the second place, I was most
anxious to point out that, in the last
days of the election campaign, it became
increasingly obvious that “Jews were not
going to be dragooned into voting for
somebody, irrespective of personalities
or the issues involved, merely because
he is Jewish”. As I wrote, “fortunately
for the good name and honor of the
Jewish community there were men and
women prepared openly to denounce the
pressurising, and to acknowledge, where
it was due, Jewish indebtedness in terms
that were clear and unequivocal”.
All this was further highlighted by
the courageous statement published
(15/12/63) in both Melbourne Jewish
weeklies from Mr I. Leibler, the sec-
retary of the Executive Council of Aus-
tralian Jewry. This statement criticised
the president of the Council for par-
ticipating in an election rally in support
of a Jewish ALP candidate in the
electorate of Isaacs. Whilst Mr Leibler’s
was a “personal statement”, the Jewish
Press reported that it was discussed and
approved, before publication, by the
Council’s Committee of Management.
NEWMAN ROSENTHAL
Melbourne (Vic.).
“NORTH”
Sir,
The English Association of Onppns.-
land, Townsville branch, is grateful for
the plug in your issue of December 21
for its magazine “North”. This is the
first literary magazine to be published in
Australia north of the Tropic of Capri-
corn. However, I would like to point
out that the Townsville branch is not
affiliated in any way with the University
College. The college has very generously
provided us with a room once a month
for meetings, but the association is an
independent body.
DARYL DOUGLAS
Hon. Sec.,
English Association of Q’ld,
Townsville Branch.
“FIND A WOMAN”
Sir,
You have printed (30/11/63) a short
interview with a North Queenslander
who has recently published her first
book. In it she quotes me as having
said, in reference to my new book,
“Find A Woman”, “that I hoped the
reader would be half way through it
before they found out that they had
been ‘ had ’.” I feel that this statement
should be corrected, as I have a very
strong feeling with regard to the
sincerity of writing. I think that this
lady may have misinterpreted any com-
ment I may have made about my book.
ELIZABETH O'CONNOR
■Einasleigh (Nth Q’ld).
MR ORR
Sir,
Mr W. J. Ginnane in “Orr The
Inevitable Settlement” (28/12/63) makes
two assumptions which put too great a
strain on the credulity of your readers.
The first is that the University Council
deliberately set out to get rid of a thorn
in their flesh (Mr Orr) by making false
charges against him. The second that
the judgments of the Supreme Court of
Tasmania and the High Court of Aus-
tralia should be disregarded in preference
to those of self-appointed judges, i.e.,
some members of the Australian Associa-
tion of Philosophy and the University
Staff Association. This is a state of
affairs which, if generally applied,
would lead to anarchy.
It is valuable to recall the finding of
the High Court under Chief Justice Sir
Owen Dixon: “Miss Kemp was 18 and
a student of the professor, and passing
through a stage of turbulent eroticism
and eager to institute a special relation-
ship with the professor, but there is not
the slightest doubt that the professor,
having observed that, took advantage of
it to seduce her. That conduct unfitted
him for his position. The University was
entitled to dismiss him at once.”
This High Court judgment said other
evidence was also admitted about Pro-
fessor Orr’s association over a long
period with a woman other than his
wife, who bore him a child while she was
living with Professor and Mrs Orr.
The moral issue is glossed over in the
face of an obsession with civil rights.
Our democracy is on the way out unless
the rights of individuals (our hard-won
heritage) are balanced by emphasis on
our moral responsibilities.
W. H. COƑEY
Mont Albert (Vic.).


REVIEWS
THEATRE
Discordant Notes
Rodgers and Hammer stein 's saccharine sounds
By WILLIAM DANIELS
Tt/fusiCAL comedy is no holiday for the
dramatist, the actor, the producer, or
the critic. Its success depends on a fine
balance between all its elements, a bal-
ance often difficult to strike. There must
be a very direct emotional appeal to the
audience, without which it cannot gener-
ate sympathy and any audience involve-
ment is excluded. On a balance between
the abstract and the real, the idealised
and the actual, the artistic (if not the
commercial) success of a musical comedy
depends. If either element is too domin-
ant, a musical can degenerate into either
a far-fetched fancy-dress party or a
“true-life” play into which music in-
trudes annoyingly.
Rodgers and Hammerstein’s best-
received shows, “The King and I”,
“Oklahoma!”, and the abominable “South
Pacific” have little more substance than
elaborate side-shows. Hammerstein runs
to consistently facile and saccharine
lyrics and Rodgers’ melodies too often
merely complement them. Their “The
Sound of Music” has opened for a return
season at the Elizabethan; milk and
honey, sweetness and light disastrously
overflow the pot. The production is top
heavy with mawkish sentiment and dated
posturing. Set in the Austrian mountain
retreat of the von Trapp family during
the 19305, it traces the events leading up
to Captain Georg's marriage to the ex-
postulant governess Maria. It is she who
teaches the seven von Trapp children to
sing, and complicated by sub-plots of
Nazi-infiltration and teenage romance,
they emerge as a singing family, thereby
escaping without compromise to the Cap-
tain’s pompous anti-Fascist sympathies.
“The Sound of Music” simulates the
appearances and attitudes of the 1930 s
so carefully it is like a revival from that
period. The romance between the Cap-
tain and Maria, highlighted by their duet
“Ordinary Couple”, is Nelson Eddy and
Jeanette MacDonald at their “Naughty
Marietta” best (or worst). The sets, too,
support the dated impression tatty
and colorless, they look as though they
have been in the store-room for 30 years.
And the overall production is just as un-
imaginative and just as dull. Stilted and
disjointed, with clumsy scene-changes, it
is like a parody of a Rodgers and Ham-
merstein show, relying on worn-out ges-
tures and exhausted conventions of
grouping and movement.
Isolated individual performances go
some way towards relieving the boredom.
Eric Reiman, as the unscrupulous Culture
Minister, gives a neat professional per-
formance full of wit and geniality, and
handles his songs with infectious con-
fidence. Gail Esler as the eldest daughter
is often charming, and the children are
refreshingly free from precosity and
“cuteness”. Gordon Boyd, as the Cap-
tain. and Rosina Raisbeck. as the Mother
Abbess, are plagued w'ith fine voices so
that both tend to step out of the show and
give recitals, which are (as such) beauti-
fully sung, but break the already strug-
gling continuity. Margaret Nisbett plays
Maria, and is always keen and energetic,
but lacks the strength to carry her cen-
tral role. Little Elizabeth Pusey, the
youngest daughter, steals every scene in
W'hich she appears w'ith a remarkably as-
sured and thoroughly fetching personal-
ity.
TI/lusical productions need pace, color
and life, and in all of these “The
Sound of Music” is sadly lacking. Where
“West Side Story” was dynamic and
“Oliver!” audacious, “The Sound of
Music” is tired and pale. Following the
new developments in musicals here and
overseas and the new sophistication in
production (not only the much-touted new
shows like “How to Succeed in Business
Without Really Trying” and “Stop the
World I Want To Get Off”, but also
the enterprising local products "Once
Upon A Surfie” and “Mother Goose and
the Stooges”, which are attuned to cur-
rent tastes and fads), “The Sound of
Music” seems like an ailing throw’back.
It needs a rest, and it needs a sharp
injection of vigor before any production
could rise above the tedious schmaltz
that is Rodgers and Hammerstein at
their dreariest.
TELEVISION
Comic Strip
The Avengers. Channel 2. Sydney.
wrath of a viewer on reading a
bitter criticism of “McHaie’s Navy”
or “The Beverly Hillbillies” is nothing
compared to that of one critic reading
another's attack on his favorite show.
Fortunately few of the critics meet
socially, so no blood is shed, nor even
ink because all are charitable fellows
who stop their anger short of print.
So I will not say a word about the
critic who remarked of one of my
favorite shows that it was “so bad now
that it is coming pretty close to being
accepted as a comedy ... so bad that
if it gets any worse it will be good”.
Or the one who said that Neil Williams
and Alan Dean's segments of the Bryan
Davies Show have been the strongest part
of this programme for some time. “They
belt out oldies with style and zing—”
I’m sorry, I just can go on with that
quote.
Then there was the critic who listed
the year's best, omitted “The Red
Skelton Show” from among the funniest,
and said “The Defenders”, Series 2, had
“intelligent, plausible stories told with
guts and acted with great skill.” I could
not agree less.
Of Australian shows, “humor was no-
where (except in the gaffe); home-bred
talent of any kind seemed to be confined
to pop singers”. This was apparently
without consideration of recent “Studio
A” comedy, and Brisbane and Mel-
bourne shows not much seen in Sydney.
If home-bred talent has to depend on the
pop singers, lor’ love us.
These critics are in Sydney, at least
one to each newspaper organisation and
one to TV Times. In Melbourne there’s
Veritas, and elsewhere no one. So this
experience, one critic’s high blood
pressure because of another’s low
opinion of a show he holds dear, is
mostly confined to Sydney.
It is a dangerous business because if
A gets a set against a show B likes, then
B has to put up with A’s remarks for
six months or so. And that is essentially
the difference between TV reviewing and
other forms of criticking. The show
goes on, and on. It is also the reason
why TV critics can be useful, if they
don’t waste time snarling at overseas
shows they can't alter.
The critics are a quick, week to week
testing board for local shows. As you
can see from the above, they are partisan
viewers first. They rarely make or break
shows, and perhaps have little or no
influence beyond that first quick, useful
reaction. It is surprising, though, how
many of the shows they assail do vanish,
especially at the end of the year.


Special frcvtctco*t&
me memonatite occacime
at CHEVRON HILTON
m
Whether it’s a banquet, dinner party, grand ball,
wedding breakfast, convention, sales meeting or
cocktail party, make it a memorable occasion at
Chevron Hilton, Sydney’s focal point for all
important functions. It costs less to plan with
Chevron Hilton.
Before arranging your next function have a word
with our Banquet Manager , telephone 35-0433,
Ext. 215.
CHEVRON HILTON MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY
C H E V / 1700 A
I hope that does not mean the end of
the show that’s “so bad that if it gets
any worse it will be good”. The show is
Britain’s “The Avengers”, and it is a
real comic strip with its hero, Patrick
MacNee as John Stead, wandering about
amiably with a bowler hat and umbrella,
and Honor Blackman as Cathy Gale
throwing men all over the place with
judo holds. It also seems to be directed
by two people, one a dullard and one a
genius. On a bad night it can be awful.
But on a good night the photography and
editing is superb and turns the comic
strip into something much more. If it
goes I will curse the critic who saw it
on a bad night and panned it.
FRANK ROBERTS
FILMS
Bee-sting
Queen Bee. Director, Marco Ferreri.
Gala and Savoy Theatres. Sydney.
An idea that might have made a neatly
ironic short story is stretched rather
beyond its limits in this Italian semi-
comedy, a mixture of social satire and
bawdy joke.
Raphael Azcona's screenplay draws a
parallel between Italian matriarchal
obsessions and the male - consuming
natural drives of the insect world.
The victim is a businessman rounding
off a career as a diligent amorist by
marrying a gentle, pious and beautiful
young girl. In a situation where con-
vention would normally shed sympathy
on the bride, our pity is drawn instead
to the suffering husband, as he tries to
withstand his wife’s relentless lust for
motherhood. When every one of his
40-odd years feels like two, he sinks on
the marriage bed and begs his wife to
let him die in peace; but she smiles a
Gioconda smile that seems to say, “All
in good time.” Despairing, he spends
furtive evenings in his office on fictional
overtime, even escapes to a monastery
for a spell of celibate recuperation.
By the time he does become a pros-
pective father he is a sick and bewildered
man. Now that he has fulfilled his
destiny (it is assumed the child is to be
a son), he finds that he is an irrelevant
even obstructive figure beside his
wife and unborn heir. After a final heart
attack we see him carried away to die
in a back room as the new, richly-
decorated crib is moved into his wife’s
bedroom.
This is a wryly amusing jest, but it
needs a good deal of extra sustenance in
order to become the material of a full-
length film. Screenwriter Azcona and
director Ferreri are only half successful
in furnishing this sustenance. Some of


COGEDAR LINE
T.V. FLAVIA GRAND PACIFIC CRUISE TO
HONOLULU, HILO
& TAHITI
ALSO CALLING AT AUCKLAND,
SUVA, SAVU SAVU, BORA-BORA,
& RAROTONGA, WITH 5 DAYS IN
HONOLULU-4 DAYS IN TAHITI
B
JUNE-JULYJ964
Enjoy every comfort aboard the luxury, one-
class liner T.V. FLAVIA; the finest European
or Australian Cuisine, air-conditioning
throughout, stabilizers for smooth sailing,
and cabins with their own private facilities.
FARES FROM £345
See any authorised Travel Agent or Co gedar Lina
General Agent: H. C. Sleigh Limited
Melbourne • Sydney * Brisbane • Adelaide • Hobart • A.P.T. Shipping Pfy. Ltd., Perth
HONOLULU
b HILO
SUVA
SAVU SAVU
TAHITI
SYDNEY
BORA-BORA
RAROTONGA
AUCKLANO
MELBOURNE
▼
539 63
the ironies are shrewdly developed, and
there is some entertaining caricature
and comic by-play among the wife’s
predatory relatives. But once it becomes
clear how the story is going to run—•
and this is fairly early—interest tends
to flag.
Ugo Tognazzi makes the husband a
sympathetic figure even in farcial abase-
ment. Marina Vlady expresses the
ambiguity of the Queen Bee with the
utmost economy.
MARTIN LONG
ART
Upward Path
Peter Upward. Recently at Gallery A.
Melbourne.
T>eter Upward has been in Europe for
A nearly three years, and the present
show at Gallery A (which has already
been seen at Rudy Komon’s in Sydney)
is the first group of paintings he has
sent back. Those who remember his
work during the year or so before he
left will find themselves still on quite
familiar territory. He is just as firmly
as ever a painter of gestures and, in this
country at least, distinctly apart from
his contemporaries. I can think of no
Australian painter who has pushed the
single bold calligraphic swipe of the
brush to such an extreme. A painting of
his is simply a gesture with no intended
allusive meaning. All you may justly
conclude is that a painter passed this
way and left his mark.
To be sure, it is a dramatic mark and
a handsome one. It would be wrong to
regard painting of this kind as mere
self-expression. Admittedly it makes no
reference to commonly perceived
reality, or even to common formal
values, but it does express much more
than the momentary passions of an
individual. Though it most clearly con-
veys a sense of rapid, fluid movement,
it is also quite obviously well-cultivated
rather than free movement and each
gesture is completed, so that there is
always a substantial sense of permanence
which acts as a counterpoise. Thus, far
from being a private lashing out in a
vacuum, Upward’s gesture is a purpose-
ful use of material to create images
which will seem at once both spon-
taneous and imposing. He practises, in
short, the very difficult art of deliberate
spontaneity.
None of this, of course, implies any
judgment of the paintings’ worth. I am
inclined to think it a pursuit of a limited
excellence, but the limits are certainly
not so narrow that they exclude genuine
art. These are paintings which compel
and hold the attention.
BILL HANNAN


RED PAGE
A Victim of Gluttony
The hollow laughter of Kingsley Amis
By BERNARD BERGONZI
One Fat Englishman. Kingsley Amis.
Gollancz. 225. 6d.
ITYngsley Amis's new' novel, “One Fat
Englishman”, has had a guarded,
even rather baffled, response from
English reviewers. Some of the trouble
comes from the increasing difficulty of
seeing what Mr Amis is doing, or thinks
he is doing, in his recent fiction.
“Lucky Jim,” now almost ten years
old and already something of a period
piece, with—for this writer, at least—
an enveloping haze of nostalgia about
it, was an unambiguously funny book. It
made one laugh, like Anthony Powell’s
“Afternoon Men” or Evelyn Waugh’s
“Decline and Fall” or, to go farther
back, Arnold Bennett's “The Card”. The
device of having an engagingly awkward,
iconoclastic hero bouncing around in a
pompous institutional environment goes
back at least to the eighteenth century
picaresque novel. Mr Amis gave the
form new life by giving his story a
setting which, ten years ago, was still
something of a novelty to British readers
—a provincial or “redbrick” university.
His hero, Jim Dixon, was a likeable
buffoon, despite the crudity of his ways.
And Mr Amis was able to demonstrate
very fully his extraordinary gift for
capturing social nuance, or what Lionel
Tilling has called “a culture’s hum and
buzz of implication”. He was viewing
the shifting social scene of the early
’fifties from a. new angle, that of the
scholarship boy or the declasse product
of educational opportunity and social
mobility, who remains unimpressed by
the traditional high culture to which his
educational has given him a formal
access. It was and is an archetypal
situation in contemporary Britain.
It was this aspect of “Lucky Jim”
that was so eagerly hooked on to by
trend-hungry journalists, soon to invent
the Angry Young Men: Jim Dixon, a
fundamentally genial figure, was absurdly
conflated with that near - pathological
specimen, John Osborne’s Jimmy Porter.
But sociological speculations apart,
there was no doubt that “Lucky Jim”
was a funny book, and squarely in the
tradition of the English semi-picaresque
comic novel. With Mr Amis’s- later
novels, however, ambiguities have crept
in; the writing, though still fundamentally
comic, begins to have an increasingly
darker side. This w ; as very evident in
“Take a Girl Like You”. Its hero,
Patrick Standish, though having a kind
of family resemblance to Jim, was a
much more sombre figure. Jim never
thought about death; Patrick is pre-
occupied with it, and finds sex, thinking
about it as well as having it, the only
possible palliative. Whereas Jim got rid
of an unsatisfactory girl-friend and
found another, much nicer, one in a
fairly effortless fashion, Patrick wears
himself out in trying to get Jenny Bunn,
the pert little North-country virgin, into
bed with him. He finally has to resort
to a Richardsonian rape when she is
drunk after a party. Patrick is a charac-
ter in W'hom charm and nastiness are
unevenly mixed; the charm is more
dominant, and the author most of the
time seems uncertain whether Patrick
is to be sympathised with or severely
judged.
Roger Micheldene, the hero of “One
Fat Englishman”, is about as far on in
unpleasantness from Patrick Standish as
Patrick was from Jim Dixon (he is also
substantially older: Roger is 40, Patrick
was 30 and Jim was about 25). Indeed,
Mr Amis seems to have finally resolved
to write a book with a clearly horrible
hero. In its form, “One Fat Englishman”
belongs to a genre that has become
common in recent British fiction: the
story that describes the adventures of a
visiting Englishman in the United States.
Ooger is a publisher by profession.
looking for American literary talent;
most of the action takes place in or
around a small university somewhere
not too far from New York (thus partly
placing the book in another established
genre the American campus novel).
Mr Amis has loaded Roger with an
almost unmanageable mass of attributes:
he is, to start with, ridiculously fat, a
direct product of over-eating, since he
is an epicure who finds the idea of self-
denial absurd (he is also an expert on
snuff and cigars); his obesity presents
him with grave problems in pursuing
sex, to which he devotes most of his
surplus energy, though Gluttony seems
to rank just marginally higher than Lust
in his scheme of things. Still, Lust has
quite a good innings, even though Roger
doesn't get all that far with Helene
Bang, the wife of a Danish philologist,
with whom he once had a brief affair in
London and whom he thinks he is in
love with. (Her small son, a frightful
young all-American toughie, keeps get-
ting in the way.) Furthermore, Roger,
unlike Mr Amis’s previous heroes, is a
religious man that is to say, he was
brought up as a Catholic, and though
long since out of the bosom of the
church, he wouldn't mind getting back in
again sometime. So from time to time
he offers up hopeful prayers to the
Almighty, rather in the spirit of St
Augustine's ‘Make me chaste, Lord, but
not yet.’ These passages, by the way,
don’t seem very convincing to me, as
though Mr Amis were making an Un-
certain little foray into Graham Greene
country.
Finally, Roger behaves systematically
like a bastard to everyone around him.
He is a social and intellectual snob, is
rude, overbearing, and has all the
conscious superiority of the old-world
Tory’s attitude to Americans. He is
also anti-semitic. But —to give things
one more twist Roger is really very
mixed up indeed; at one point he con-
fides to Helene that most of his troubles
stem from his father, who didn’t treat
him properly.
If one asks whether, loaded with all
this, Roger is really convincing, one has
to reply that he isn’t—Mr Amis is trying
to make him be, or stand for, too much.
Still, he has the characteristic mental
vitality of Mr Amis's other heroes, and
he provides quite a number of enter-
taining moments. As, for instance, when
he is in bed with Helene and is trying
to delay climax by reciting to himself
lines of Virgil and bits of Greek
grammar, being excessively proud of his
classical education (especially in bar-
barian America). But on the whole “One
Fat Englishman” is a sour if intense
novel, whose essential purport is to
describe the total and humiliating defeat
of Roger by the Americans he goes out
of his way to offend and patronise. The
principal agent of his defeat is Irving
Macher, a clever hipster college boy,
who has already established his reputa-
tion with a sick but brilliant novel called
“Blinkie Heaven”. Irving is more ruth-
lessly offensive than Roger, and for parts
of the story he manipulates Roger into
humiliation by secretly arranging for
things to happen to him, just like a
novelist manipulating his characters.
Roger, despite his nastiness, wans our
partial sympathy, if only because his
rage and hatred are aroused by things
which often seem to deserve them. Not
all his deeds and attitudes are disowned
by the author, and this is where the fatal
ambiguity creeps in. Roger is, in fact, the
vehicle for a thorough-going onslaught


LOOK DOWN
THIS LIST
For a spare-time interest or a spare-time in-
come, select a Stott Home-Study Course. Write
today for full information.
Story Writing
F’lance Journalism
Writing for Radio
Writing for TV
Verse Writing
Shorthand Pitman’s
& Speedwriting
Typewriting
Handwriting
Commercial Art
Cartooning
Drawing & Sketching
Water Colour
Fashion Drawing
Showcard & Ticket
Writing
English Grammar &
Composition
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 383 George
Street, Sydney. 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
45 Gilles Street, Adelaide. 22 Howard Street,
Perth.
POST THIS COUPON
TO STOTT'S: Please send me, free and with-
out obligation, full details of your Correspon-
dence Course/s in:
NAME
ADDRESS
Age (B. 164)
Stott’s Colleges undertake that no represen-
tative will call folloiving your inquiry.
ANCESTRY TRACED
Historical research can help you discover your
British Ancestors. Total outlay of £A3S brings
professional report with documents.
BROOKS & SIMPSON
Genealogists
5 FENCHURCH STREET, LONDON, E.C.3
on many of the central aspects of
American life, particularly intellectual
life. By making Roger himself so dis-
agreeable Mr Amis is able to disengage
himself from Roger’s criticisms, but my
guess is that he would probably endorse
quite a few of them. There is something
curiously defensive in the general
strategy of “One Fat Englishman”. Is
it, finally, a good novel? And here the
evasiveness shown by other English
reviewers descends on me. It’s too
uniformly sour to be a pleasing work
from one who is still officially a comic
writer; but it’s an enormously interesting
book. Mr Amis is obviously grappling
with the inclination, or the need, to
write a serious, even sombre novel, and
“One Fat Englishman” is the closest he
has come to it. But I think he needs,
before his next attempt, to forget about
any obligation to make us laugh as well;
it only gets in the way.
Mild Beer
The Best of Lennie Lower. Presented
by Cyril Pearl and Wep. Lansdowne
Press. 355.
Asa boy growing up in the ’thirties I
thought the two funniest writers in
the world were Stephen Leacock and
Lennie Lower and that Lower, if pos-
sible, was the funnier of the two. Read-
ing Lower again in the ’sixties he doesn’t
strike me as being all that funny except
in parts of “Here’s Luck” whose hero
Jack Gudgeon remains enduringly tough,
cranky, individual and non-uxorious.
Lower, however, is about to enjoy a
revivalist vogue, and Mr Cyril Pearl who
knew and greatly admired him claims,
with considerable enthusiasm in the in-
troduction to this book, that: “In clubs
and pubs, in lolly shops and lupanars, in
the towering clinker-brick chateau of the
millionaire pork packer and the under-
ground tiled chalet - de - necessite of the
troubled pedestrian, in the streets and on
the beaches, (Lower) was a man of in-
finite legend, a man of infinite laughs, a
much loved man. Even the Sydney taxi-
driver, hunched ape-like over his frayed
cigarette, would emit an approving,
almost-human grunt if you asked him
to deposit you at the newspaper office
where Lower worked.” That’s high praise
which establishes Lower as something
more than even a man of fame and
popularity, as something of an institu-
tion, an enduring city legend like New
York’s Jimmy Walker or La Guardia.
“As a humorist,” writes Mr. Pearl,
“Lower deployed a vast array of talents.
He had a superb ear for dialogue, a
searching eye for detail, a glorious sense
of the ridiculous. He was a master of
comedy in its multiform guises: subtle,
vulgar, zany, verbal, ratbag, slapstick,
nonsensical. His humor can be realistic
as a greasy sink, or as remote as the
laugh of a leprechaun. He blends Till
Eulenspiegel, Puck, Lewis Carroll,
Edward Lear, W. S. Gilbert, P. G.
Wodehouse, Groucho Marx and Roy
(Mo) Rene with a refreshing flavor of
gum leaves.” This is pretty high praise,
too, and nothing in this selection seems
to justify it. It’s a matter of time, age
and even of political temperament I
suppose. Anyway, Lower doesn’t im-
prove with age. He wrote extremely
well in short, clear sentences. He had
a sense of fun and of the absurd. He
had the social conscience of the ’thirties
dressed it with sharp humor. He
must have worked like the devil for his
output was prodigious and he had the
capacity of the conscientious humorist
to make a lot, or at least something, out
of very little —in his case eight times a
week.
He could be wizard on puns -
“AVAST ! ! {Eh?) I said, AVAST ! !
(A vast what?)" or, describing chess
players, “Fifteen men on a dead man’s
chess, Yo ho and a couple of pawns.”
He was sometimes inspired as in his
account of the landing of Phillip and
himself at Botany Bay and later at
Farm Cove:
So we landed at Farm Cove. Thus
is history made. It was a pretty wild
spot, and the natives were a bit
suspicious. “Blimey!” said one con-
vict. “Tike me back to Dartmoor!”
We put him in irons.
“I think we’ll build a gaol first,”
said Phillip. The first sign of civil-
ization was the gaol. Then we
built the barracks ... All this time,
Blaxland was away in the hills with
Lawson and Wentworth. We were
beginning to get a bit anxious about
them. However, they came back
after a while and said that they had
discovered three railway stations.
They had had the effrontery to
name them after themselves. Phillip
immediately named a street after
himself. He was very annoyed.
Sometimes he was just a blandly shrewd
observer: “I went home in a taxi the
other night and the driver had the gall to
ask me for eight shillings for a five bob
ride. Did I tell him off! I’ll say. And
did I pay him the eight shillings? Yes.”
Sometimes he merely doled out
pleasant absurdity:
Under the village poplar tree
The village butcher sets,
The butch, a poplar man is he
For he takes SP bets.
One could go on quoting Lower on
education, Lower on Grandpa (remember
him?), Lower on home-making but it’s
all pretty dated and rather mild beer on
the whole. It seems to me to have been
sound book sense and probably a lot of
fun to have brought out a selection of
Lower’s writings, together with Wep’s
excellent drawings, without going to all
that trouble to establish Lower as some-
thing he isn't. And while I’m being un-
gracious I simply cannot understand
why, if Lower was loved so extravagantly
in pubs and clubs, in lolly shops and
lupanars, by millionaire pork packers,
troubled pedestrians, ape-like taxi drivers,
street dwellers, beach goers and so on,
his death in 1947 should have been as
unremarked in Sydney’s newspapers as,
Mr Pearl complains rather sharply, it
was.
It seems to me a considerable feat for
all but relatively few professional
humorists and almost impossible for
those who have to concentrate on the
topical as a matter of bread and butter
—to survive the passage of time. Had


HELP
LEGACY
all the year
round s
o*^
ii 2 ;
i i g
iiii
4 i
3aaBBBBBSBBBBB
I
Our customers expect us to be smart and fresh looking all the
time, even though we're on the job all day long and thanks
to Cesarine we have no worries about our appearance. Our
uniforms have been beautifully and thoughtfully designed;
they give us best protection and look wonderfully
attractive. And they're laundered often, but they always come
back looking like new—fresh, crisp, colourful. Thanks again to
Cesarine. Our boss says Cesarine is good value too!
CAESAR FABRICS LTD.—Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Launceston
SERVING AUSTRALIA UNIFORMLY
CPB33
Lower indeed combined the talents of
Puck, Carroll, Lear, Groucho and the
others he might then have survived the
world war which formed a watershed
between two quite different worlds.
PETER HASTINGS
Words and War
Air Power Over Europe, 1944-45.
John Herington. Halstead Press.
Australian War Memorial. 355.
A fter seventeen years, the project of
the Australian war histories is
coming near completion. The eighteenth
volume, “Air Power Over Europe, 1944-
45”, John Herington’s continuation of
“Air War Against Germany and Italy,
1939-44”, finishes off the air series of
four volumes. The seven Army volumes
have now been published. Of the
RAN's two volumes, by G. Hermon Gill,
the first is out. Paul Hasluck's second
volume of the Civil Series —“The Gov-
ernment and the People, 1942-45”—is
on the way and S. J. Butlin’s “War
Economy II” will complete the Civil
Series of five. Hasluck’s first volume is
the best-written and most interesting and
readable of all the volumes issued so
far in all sections. The Medical Series
of four volumes by Alan S. Walker is
on sale.
These are, of course, only a fraction
of the official historical volumes on the
war issued by various governments.
The British apparently will cover about
the same ground as the Australian over
the whole scope of their war with 31 or
32 volumes edited by Professor J. R. M.
Butler of Cambridge University and
written by experts in their subjects.
Their history has a clarity denied to the
Australian one. Their splendid maps
and montages and simple approaches to
events and reduction of material to its
essentials make their narratives easy to
follow.
The American effort will be even
bigger and better than the British —some-
thing over 70 volumes at least.
The Australian history is not very
satisfactory when compared with
C. E. W. Bean's classic but much shorter
proportionally story of the military por-
tion of the war of 1914-18 which was
a more intensive war than that of 1939-
45.
Bean could write lucidly, often
brilliantly. He had a grasp of the
mechanical essentials of war, an eye for
an incident, and descriptive power to
encompass it impressively. Also, he had
a sense of humor and he did not present
. . A . , . , , , ,
h| s material m huge dreary slabs of para-
graphs which in some of the World War
II volumes are couched in jargon more
suitable to government reports (as
government reports are conventionally
written) than to a vivid and specific
account written to inform the average
man.
The second volume of “Air Power in
Europe” plods patiently on for 500 pages
in paragraphs up to 400 words long.
The author never uses the active voice
if the passive is available and dodges
the short word and phrase like a land-
mine.
Thus, the liveliest part of the war is
described at a bullock-waggon pace and
the reader has the impression at times
of plodding over a wet blacksoil plain


when profits need to move into top gear .<•
WHO
LIGHTENS
THE LOAD
OF OVERHEADS
FOR
TRUCK
OPERATORS?
Tough’s the word for Olympic truck and bus tyres; they go a much longer way to cut operating
costs. More money-making miles pile up as replacement costs come tumbling down. Every
Olympic tyre contains POLYBUTADIENE; that’s part of the secret of extra mileage. Deep,
rugged treads, too, give longer life, improved braking and the traction to go when you need
it most. From ‘all-round’ highway tyres to heavy-duty tyres for mine and quarry jobs, the
name for toughness is Olympic. Successful operators are proving it every day. So can you.
Why not right away? Check for Olympic Truck and Bus Tyres.
OWStI-LO
Olympic!!!!!
with the mud becoming heavier on his
bluchers every minute as he negotiates
sentences like this: “While doubt-
ing that war potential could be signifi-
cantly lowered by bombing individual
factories, because of the suspected
energy, recuperative powers and surplus
capacity of German industry, they con-
sidered that the lowering of morale and
the cumulative effects of attrition caused
by the destruction of German cities
would bring about a general collapse of
the economy.” This kind of writing
makes the descriptions even of the
dramatic and exciting marches of the
RAAF prisoners to freedom dull. The
story of these marches closes the book
in a paragraph to end all paragraphs
nearly 400 words long, into which the
mind of the reader sinks as into a glue-
pot.
There will be about 5,000,000 words
in the complete official history of “Aus-
tralia in the War of 1939-45”. After
wading through most of the first eighteen
volumes, I think at least 2 million of
them could have been left out without
losing anything worthwhile in the
narrative.
EK DUM
State of Grace
Blizzard and Fire. John Bechervaise.
Angus and Robertson. 275. 6d.
Take Me To Spain. Colin Simpson.
Angus and Robertson. 325. 6d.
"Oefore reading “Blizzard and Fire”
study a map of the Antarctic and
pinpoint Mawson Base where the author
spent a year as a leader of the Aus-
tralian National Antarctic Research Ex-
pedition, 1959-60. The book is a col-
lection of his letters home.
What makes a man want to spend
such a year in exile? The quest for
scientific knowledge or even adventure
is easily understood. Or is it a need for
escape that drives him there? The author
attempts to explain it in the first letter
to his wife. Perhaps, he writes, a year
without all the civilised amenities and
sensual fulfilments allows a return to
sensory vitality a state of grace.
Colin Simpson’s book on Spain is for
tourists rather than travellers. The
beaten tourist track, he says, is not to
be despised. It is beaten for good
reasons.
His particular “beaten track” was the
road beginning at the Basque border
town of Irun, running in a south westerly
direction to Madrid, on through other
Castilian towns to Seville in Andalusia,
then hooking back up the Mediterranean
coast via Granada and Valencia to Bar-
celona where he left the coach tour he
had booked in London, and flew to
Majorca, one of the Balearic Islands. He
also visited Portugal briefly.
This is essentially a practical book,
but is entertaining because the Spanish
scene has been handled with much
humor and acumen. The author’s own
and often engaging philosophy greatly
enlivens the text.
His potted history of Spain, under the
heading “The Reigns in Spain”, is writ-
ten lightly and with a degree of cyni-
cism, providing a background for more
appreciative sight-seeing and some un-
derstanding of the Spanish outlook which
could puzzle a visitor. It can be seen,
the author shows, how successive in-
vaders have left their mark. The Moor-
ish influence, especially, is much ap-
parent. In Granada enough of the Al-
hambra (Moorish palace) is intact to be
exceedingly impressive in fact,
throughout the trip, much of the archi-
tecture was pure Arab overlaid with
Christian Gothic, often flamboyantly
garnished with French rococo or bar-
oque ornament.
JOYCE BURNARD


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Keeping Heads Out of the Sand
Australian statistics are set fair for buoyant conditions
in 1964. But what about overseas influences? As Aus-
L tralia grows in stature, so do the emerging Asian and
African nations whose populations dwarf Australia’s 11 mil-
lion. To what extent, therefore, are Australia’s prospects in
1964 likely to be influenced by outside factors w'hich are not
conveniently tabulated for us by the Commonwealth
Statistician?
Is Australia's current prosperity, in fact, rising to a stage
where it is out of step with the Joneses who are our neighbors
and most important can
Australia’s neighbors afford to
purchase the goods we produce?
These conjectures must be
made against a background of
the needs of other highly in-
dustrialised nations like Britain,
USA and the EEC members
which are striving mightily to
sustain the industrial growth of
the past few years, without
which their prosperity will de-
cline.
No one publishes a world
chart which si ows at a glance
the total production of all
countries, the amount which
they sell, and what proportion
of it is attributable to foreign
aid. But it must be obvious to
everyone that the world’s highly
industrialised output is in excess
of the world's consumption—
if each nation pays cash for the
goods it consumes. Credit ex-
pansion, like hire purchase, has
(SOURCE-COMMONWEALTH STATISTICIAN)
enabled many nations to buy more than they can afford, and
this is reckoned as safe so long as the money is used for
development (so that each nation can buy machinery and
produce goods which, in turn, it hopes to export to other
nations).
That is why there is a world liquidity problem . . . not enough
money (backed by gold or other securities) to finance the pur-
chase of goods. One method aimed to alleviate this liquidity
shortage is the Kennedy Round of talks aimed at reducing
tariffs, based on the theory that the reduced cost of goods will
permit higher purchases and freer trade.
Such elementary principles must be reiterated when analysing
the clash between President Charles de Gaulle and Chancellor
Erhard in their fight for commodity price agreements, because
if France achieves her aim of lower prices for farm products
(thus lowering commodity values in Europe) it must have reper-
cussions on commodity prices elsewhere.
America’s aim for lowered tariffs deals mainly with manu-
factured goods, but it is obvious that the individual interests of
large nations are aimed specifically at gaining advantages for
their major products, either farm products or manufactured
goods.
Primary producing nations in 1963 had a much better year
than they expected and the general increase of about 13 p.c.
was influenced by special factors such as Russian and Chinese
buying of wheat, flour, sugar, etc., after a period of crop
failures.
Economic forecasts for European and Asian nations indicate
a sharp rise in consumption in 1964, but this must be paid for
by a corresponding increase in exports. It is noticeable that
many nations expect to sell
more to Russia and China in
1964. These hopes are based
on the Communists’ ability to
pay for their purchases in gold
rather than to sell more goods
to the Western world.
There seems to be a naive
belief that all the expected ex-
pansion and increased living
standards in 1964 can be
achieved by a rise in exports
from each country. But the
postwar experience of France,
Western Germany and Italy
surely indicates that booms and
rising standards cannot continue
apace. Germany's boom has
slowed and the rate of growth
in France and Italy has been
cut back by credit restraint and
taxes aimed at curbing inflation.
Public investment in many
countries has become a domin-
ant factor, but private invest-
ment has faltered and has
needed the extra stimulus of special investment and deprecia-
tion allowances such as in Britain. Rising nationalism in
Asian and South American countries has provided nasty set-
backs to private investment. The outflow of investment capital
from the USA also has been curbed by the proposed 15 p.c.
interest equalisation tax.
At this stage, therefore, the estimates of growth rates in 1964
for various nations, based on Gross National Product, suggest
a lower level than for 1963, except for countries like Britain
and Australia which are rising , again after a recession. Ger-
many, the Netherlands and Sweden are three countries expect-
ing a higher growth rate in 1964 while the USA, with its ex-
pected tax cuts, is anticipating an improved growth rate. Japan,
which has achieved a phenomenal growth rate, is expected by
the EEC to achieve a growth in GNP of 8 p.c. in 1964 against
9 p.c. in 1963.
Economic forecasters are not overlooking the fact that the
sudden spurt in imports demand by the Communist countries
must have some influence on growth rates. Australia, for ex-


ample, had a wheat surplus turned into a virtual shortage be-
cause of the unexpected Communist demand for wheat
Just as 1963 had some surprises, so may 1964. Rising com-
modity prices bring with them the inevitable resistance from
consumers who seek, where possible, to use substitutes.
But, looking soberly at the mass of world statistics at the
close of 1963, the immediate indicators are for a good start
in 1964 for those nations already established.
Politically, there are many trouble spots emerging with many
of the undeveloped countries displaying a mood to shake off
overseas investment and to develop a national line of indepen-
dent trade rather than aid. A greater attention to this restive-
ness seems to be the watchword for 1964 rather than internal
economics.
Probing Monolopy
In Practice
Judging by the five years it took the Monopolies Commission
** in the UK to investigate restrictive practices in the electrical
components side of the motor industry there, the further year
during which the report was shelved and the present indication
that the British Government doesn’t intend to take any action
on it, any tribunal set up by an Australian Government to
adjudicate on restrictive practices here is going to have a
tedious and frustrating time.
The best that the Investors’ Chronicle can see in the electrical
components report is that “it will be welcomed by students of
this sector for the wealth of background material which it
supplies; and although the information is naturally not up to
date, investors —if they digest the publication—will be a lot
better informed.” This is damning with faint praise if ever we
saw it.
As far as the central point of the report is concerned—that
certain practices, including resale price maintenance, should
be terminated —its ultimate importance lies in whether the Gov-
ernment sees fit to take such action. Opinion in Britain on this
seems to be that it is unlikely, certainly at the moment and
probably for some time, according to the Investors’ Chronicle.
The recommendations of the report are basically three. First,
that resale price maintenance of electrical components for
motor vehicles should be stopped. Secondly, that each manu-
facturer of these goods should publish his prices and terms,
including quantity terms, for all sales of “replacement” goods
made by him to distributors. And, thirdly, that the members
of the British Starter Battery Association (1960) should stop
exchanging information about prices, terms, customers and
other matters.
The commission also publishes the names of certain Lucas
subsidiaries which it thinks should be made known
The commission was not concerned with prices as such. It
was with the use of a dominant position to keep prices higher
than free competition would warrant. It recognised that the
motor industry should have reliable sources of good, cheap
components.
“We do not think,” says the report, “that these conditions
can be fulfilled except by component makers operating on a
large scale. The monopoly positions can, therefore, be said to
be justified, provided that they are used to produce a better
product at a lower price and that the positions are not abused
to such an extent as to outweigh the benefits.”
Thus the commission sees no need to propose radical carving-
up operations (such as the sale of all Gallaher shares by Imper-
ial Tobacco), but simply the abolition of retail price mainten-
ance.
Hire Purchase
Climbs Back
117ith Australia’s hire purchase debt rising to £4som. at the
end of November, non-retail hire purchase companies
have now passed the December, 1960, peak of £439m. It has
taken three years to do it and is attributable mainly to the
sales boom in new and used vehicles.
Retailers which finance their own sales evidently have taken
some business away from the hire purchase financiers,
because the hire purchase business in household goods remains
quiet.
At the same time, with cut prices and special trade-in deals
for cash, the marketing of household goods has been
completely revolutionised compared with 1960.
EEC Patched Up
But Gold Still Short
\ last minute compromise by France has enabled the EEC
to be patched up with a bit of sticky paper. Common
Market members now stumble into 1964 with a package deal
agreement which involves joint regulations for beef, rice and
dairy products and a common attitude on tariffs. It is like
a three-legged race, with West Germany and France tied
together as awkward partners . . . France wanting low prices
for agricultural products and Germany wanting to maintain
high prices to protect her farmers.
Germany is still suspicious of France and wonders if France
will create further difficulties when the Kennedy Round comes
up at Geneva. Naturally enough, West Germany as an
industrial nation has a lot to lose if the USA starts a price
war with industrial products.
If France had won out in her plan to become the grocer
of Europe, providing cheap agricultural products to EEC
members, it not only would have undermined the West German
farmers but also would have cut drastically the imports of
food from outside countries.
Because the US exports about £4som. of agricultural
products to the six EEC countries (most of it to West
Germany), the West Germans feared that the US would
retaliate by flooding Europe with cheap industrial products.
A common policy towards orderly tariff reductions (they hope)
will now permit stability and increased trade under the
Kennedy Round.
Meanwhile, Uncle Sam’s gold stocks dropped by 70 million
dollars in the week ended December 26 and it wasn’t because
the Federal Reserve Bank was handing out Christmas presents.
It is believed that France, which has been a consistent
purchaser of US gold during 1963, swapped her surplus dollar
reserves for gold. This has been a customary procedure for
France at the end of each year.
Despite the heavy Soviet gold sales on the open market,
and the salutary effect of the proposed US interest equalisation
tax on the outflow of US loans, America’s gold reserves have
fallen to 15,513 million dollars, lowest level since 1939. The
loss in 1963, however, at 465 million dollars, was only about
half the loss of 912 million dollars in 1962.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Are We Developing in the Dark?
The Stanford Research Institute’s Survey of the Development of Australia
“TT>evelopment is a national question,”
says the recently issued Stanford
survey on “The Development
of Australia”. That being so, the authors
say there should be a National Develop-
ment Council, a specialised body “able
to concentrate on development and to
negotiate practical arrangements with
private business and finance and with
research agencies, public and private, as
well as with State and Federal Govern-
ment departments.”
The emphasis is on the need for more
intensive concentration on regional de-
velopment within a national programme,
but “without more intensive analysis
than is possible within the scope of this
study, firm conclusions cannot be
reached as to the relative worth of some
of the development opportunities.
Granted that from an immediate invest-
ment point of view much more can be
done in the heavily populated south-east
' of Australia than in some other
geographic areas, .it is highly desirable
to develop these other areas as it be-
comes technically and economically
possible”.
The authors think the political dice
are loaded against development in the
less populated States. “With the aid of
the Commonwealth, the State Govern-
ments of Western Australia and Queens-
land are developing their areas; but in
the political process of negotiating
financial and loan policies, the clamant
needs of other States for housing, road
construction, hospitals and education
cannot be ignored. It is inevitable that
in the political bargaining, votes must
weigh heavily and the undeveloped areas
of the country have few votes.”
HThe survey seems to envisage a
National Development Council as
commanding an authority above the
political voices, but without saying how
the delegation of authority might be
achieved. It dismisses that thorny prob-
lem with the observation that “in the
■ normal process of political evolution
Australians have met new needs as they
arose by a process of devolving special
powers on national institutions”.
But of the instances of this cited in
the report such as the Snowy Mountains
! Authority, the CSIRO, the Australian
Universities Commission, the National
Medical and Health Research Council
and the Australian Agricultural Council,
only the Snowy Mountains Authority
would seem to have involved the delega-
tion of economic powers of the same
order and significance as those implied
by the establishment of a National De-
velopment Authority on the lines
suggested.
Further, in the case of the Snowy
Mountains Authority the delegation was
smoothed (though not all that much) by
the fact that there was a defence angle
and that the States concerned were the
beneficiaries, whereas in the case of a
National Development Authority pre-
sumably the idea is to give the weaker
States higher priority in the allocation
of resources at the expense of the
stronger ones and the defence angle is
rather more obtuse.
HPhe survey continues to skirt round this
A problem. “It is inevitable,” it says,
“that political factors enter into the
bargaining between the Federal and
State Governments. A price must be
paid for democracy. It is possible to
exaggerate the gains in economic
efficiency that might result from in-
creased power at the centre; but some-
thing could be done to eliminate or
reduce the spasmodic consequences both
of party politics and civil service rivalries.
A National Development Council with
advisory powers to draw up a long-
range programme and recommend
priorities in its execution could do much
in both directions”.
Of course if the Authority’s powers
were to be merely advisory, leaving the
execution of its plans to others, the
analogy with the Snowy Mountains
Authority collapses because that body is
executing a project with Federal Govern-
ment and International Bank money and
is outside the Loan Council's annual
carve-ups.
Limited merely to advisory functions,
a National Development Authority
would, at every turn —except when it
contemplated some scheme for the
Northern Territory—touch the arena of
the Loan Council. Indeed, one of the
things the report seems to be hinting at
is that the Loan Council should allocate
a greater share of loan funds to the less
developed States and that this is the sort
of advice one might expect it to get
from a National Development Council.
Equally a NDA function might/be to
advise the Federal Government on
special loans and grants to the States.
These have become a feature of develop-
ment finance in recent years and several
are being used at the present time on
such schemes as the Ord River Develop-
ment and standardisation project in WA,
the Mt Isa railway and the Brigalow
land clearing scheme in Queensland, and
the Chowilla and Blowering reservoirs
and coal loading facilities in NSW.
However, the bulk of these special
Commonwealth grants of a capital nature
this year are going to the less populated
States. Excluding Commonwealth Aid
Roads grants and university subsidies,
Queensland is receiving £10,962,000,
Western Australia £7,514,000 and South
Australia £1,795,000, whereas Victoria
is getting only £lOO,OOO and NSW
£1,282,000. So while the carve-up of
loan funds for State works and housing
may be very much in favor of more
developed States (this year NSW’s share
is £86.5 million and Victoria’s £69.4
million compared with South Australia’s
£37.3 million, Queensland's £34.4 mil-
lion, Western Australia’s £25.4 million
and Tasmania’s £19.1 million) the
Federal Government has been paying
considerable attention to the special
development needs of the less populated
States.
confounds the idea that at present
'*■ the allocation of funds available for
development is done on a rule of thumb
basis, or that it is pursuing its develop-
ment courses in the dark to the neglect
of the less populated States.
Again, it is apposite that although the
allocations for State works and housing
loans favor the more heavily populated
States, the shares of the various States
(with the exception of Queensland) on a
per head of population basis are very
much in favor of the less populated
States. For instance this year Tasmania
will get £5l 10s. Id. per head in loan
funds for works and housing. South
Australia £36 12s. 9d. a head, Western
Australia £32 Us. 6d., Victoria
£22 10s. 7d., Queensland £2l 15s. Id.
and NSW only £2l 2s. 9d. a head.
The Stanford survey seems to be in
two minds about restricting a National
Development Authority’s functions to
merely advisory ones. For although at
one point it speaks of advisory povyers
only, later, in enumerating the functions
proposed for such a body, ranges much
more widely. These functions will be
outlined in a second article on the survey
in next week’s issue of The Bulletin.


Every Friday night
/;
m
I
over 150,000 men
soy
"YES
NANETTE"
On Channel 9-TCN, Sydney,
we’re in the people
selling business—men,
women and children —
and we’re offering
some of the largest TV
audiences ever in Australia —
measured in the hundreds of thousands
—if not the half millions.
If you’re on the lookout
for audiences —remember . . .
PEOPLE ARE SOLD ON
KEY STATION NATIONAL TELEVISION NETWORK
Studio & Transmitter: Artarmon Rd., Willoughby. 43-0444.
Sales: Sydney— Ist Floor, Cricket House, George St. 27-2881. Melbourne— 247 Collins St. 63-8336
TCN


A Growing Year for Timber
Problems of Rationalisation and Cut-throat Competition
Cut-throat competition and a
need for rationalisation have
operated against the timber in-
dustry for years, but moves to-
wards a stabilisation programme,
coupled with a likely increase in
the demand for timber, give the
industry an optimistic outlook.
The effect of increased building
approvals is only now starting to
be felt. Merchants and saw millers
told The Bulletin that already
production was at a high level and
mills were working at full or near-
full capacity during December.
Timber merchants and sawmillers
are forecasting higher sales as a
result of the Liberal Party’s elec-
tion promises on housing.
Production of sawn native timber for
the first quarter of this financial year
was well ahead of that in the compar-
able period of 1962-63. With 122.2
million super feet produced in July,
132.6 million in August and 123.2 mil-
lion in September the annual rate could
conceivably exceed 1500 million super
feet, and give sawmillers their best output
since 1960-61 when 1419 million super
feet were sawn.
Imports, too, are running at a higher
level. For the first quarter of this finan-
cial year £6,790,000 worth ol timber
and plywood was imported, compared
with £6,379,000 for the corresponding
period of 1962-63. This year’s imports,
based on imports for the first quarter,
could amount to £20,370,000 compared
with £17,121,535 for timber and ply
imports in 1962-63.
Increased building approvals in 1963-
64 have already given their sales a boost
and all merchants report sales are higher
than for the corresponding period of
1962-63. A talking point with many of
them is the cut-throat competi-
tion within the industry, and the
possibility of rationalisation to
reduce price cutting.
Mr L. M. Chapman, manag-
ing director of Allen Taylor
Ltd, said his company’s sales at
the end of November were 18
per cent higher than for the
same period in 1962. “The de-
mand from January to June
was very depressed. Then it
started to rise in July, and has
strengthened since then. Sales
are running at a better level
than in 1960, and about 15 to
20 per cent higher than in
1962.
“Our order files are the strongest they
have been since 1959. Demand has now
reached a reasonable level and we’re
able to supply all the orders placed with
us. If the demand rises above its present
level there could be some marginal short-
ages but the bulk of orders will be met.”
One of the reasons for the increased
sales is the improved demand for homes.
In the first half of the calendar year
1963 the finance was available but the
community did not have the confidence.
Timber is holding its own against
other forms of building material. This
has been due largely to promotional
work done by the Timber Development
Association. There is a great deal to be
done, but at least it has been started.
It’s being done on a more modest scale
than wool promotion, but it is very
necessary.
Timber is an important industry
which employs 63,000 people and has an
annual output of £l2O million. Because
it primarily employs people in rural
areas it is an important customer of the
transport industry. The NSW Govern-
ment Railways do handsomely out of it.
Australian Sawn Native limber Production 1962-63
SOURCE- COMMONWEALTH STATISTICIAN
Mr Chapman said that cut-throat com-
petition in the industry at present was
due to the depressed demand earlier this
year. “Some marginal producers have
gone out of business. About 50 sawmills
were closed last year and about 100 the
year before. We are now operating
seven sawmills compared with the 13 we
ran four years ago, and the output is
about 50 per cent higher.
“This is a form of rationalisation
which some other sawmillers have under-
taken too. It will continue this way and
accelerate rather than decelerate for the
next few years and then start to taper
off and then level out.”
His company’s mills in the triangle
bounded by Coffs Harbor, Maxwell and
Dorrigo on the north coast of NSW and
at Wauchope and Buladelah, were work-
ing at full capacity, Mr Chapman said.
The story was pretty much the same
throughout the industry. About five per
cent of his firm’s total sales were for
export to New Zealand, New Guinea,
the Pacific Islands, the east and west
coasts of America, Hong Kong, Hono-
lulu and occasionally small consignments
go to Europe.
“We've spent a lot of money recently
to develop our export trade and we be-
lieve we're going to increase it”, he said.
“But the world timber market is highly
competitive and it is very hard to fore-
cast the future for exports”.
On the question of royalties which saw-
millers pay to the Forestry Commission,
Mr Chapman said: “This is a very old
whipping post, and we don’t want to see
the charges raised. The question of
stumpage must be related to the cost of
the roads and other services provided by
the Commission, and to increase these
charges would be dangerous to the indus-
try. Because we are getting
further and further back into
the hills and into rougher
country this has caused an in-
crease in the cost of logging.
The industry has had a pretty
rotten time since 1960, but now
it seems to be picking up.”
Mr Chapman said a bank
survey of the industry in 1960
forecast that the level of house-
building would be relatively low
through to 1964 and would then
increase. The industry was con-
fident that there would be a
rising demand for housing for
the rest of the decade. The
demand would be partly
supplied from local production
and partly from imports.
Although timber had lost some of its
markets to concrete, steel and, to a minor
extent, aluminium and asbestos sheets,
Mr Chapman said he thought that over
the coming years some markets would be
recaptured under the influence of the
promotional scheme”.
Mr Peter M. Reid, joint managing di-
rector of Vanderfield and Reid, timber
importer, said that from June onward his
company’s sales had increased. New
building approvals had pushed them up.
“Timber is holding its own against other
building materials,” he said, “and al-


ZONE 1
6.30 p.m.-10.30 p.m.
or the end of I.M.T.
whichever is the later
GTV9
HAS LARGEST
AUDIENCE
ZONE
1A
00
30
m
m
GTV9
AHEAD
OPPOSITION
ZONE 2
.30
p.m.
GTV9
HAS HIGHEST
RATINGS
ZONE 3
Open - 6.00 p.m.
GTV9
IS TOP
STATION
GTV9 is top station
in all 4 time zones
Could you seriously consider any _
other station for your commercials?
Ring your GTV9 account
executive now!


FACTORS LIMITED
Extracts from the address of the Chairman, Mr. Stanley
Korman, at the 39th annual general meeting on 31st December,
1963, being Annexures "A" and "B":
ANNEXURE "A"
Holeproof Industries Limited
(of New Zealand)
and Subsidiary Companies
OPERATING COMPANIES AND
MAIN PRODUCTS
HOLEPROOF MILLS LIMITED, Royal
Oak, Auckland. Top making
machine knitting yarns woollen,
worsted and crimped nylon hand
knitting yarns woollen and worsted
knitted and woven fabrics
hosiery—men's, women's and child-
ren's— fully fashioned outerwear.
HOLEPROOF (N.Z.) LIMITED, Royal
Oak, Auckland. Trousers, skirts,
shorts, sportswear swimwear, school-
wear — knitted garments, underwear.
JACQUARD HOSIERY MILLS
LIMITED, Palmerston North. Knitted
fabrics, underwear, outerwear, men's
and children's hosiery.
RODFIELD WOOLLENS LIMITED
(Manhattan Shirt Co.) Auckland. Shirts
and blouses.
COLONIAL AMMUNITION COM-
PANY LIMITED, Mt. Eden, Auckland.
Ammunition, targets, crown seals, cos-
metic containers transformer lamin-
ations, metal pressings plastic water
hose, plastic extrusions injection
mouldings foil products and plating.
W. H. BOND AND COMPANY
LIMITED, Onehunga, Auckland. Drum
and canister makers, tin printing and
lithographing, steel pails kitchen-
ware.
MEREDITH BROS. AND COMPANY
LIMITED, Tikinui, North Auckland.
Toheroa shell fish and Toheroa soup.
ANNEXURE "B"
Statement of
Estimated Financial Position of
Factors Limited
as at 30th April, 1964
ASSETS
Shares in Subsidiary Companies .... £3,700,936
Fixed Assets 20,000
Estimated surplus of Realisable Assets 339,223
4,060,159
LESS LIABILITY
Loan from Commercial & General
Acceptance Ltd., repayable on, or
at Factors' option before 30th
April, 1965 1,800,000
Estimated Shareholders' Funds at
30th April, 1964 £2,260,159
EXPLANATORY NOTES
The foregoing statement should be read, having
regard to the following notes.
1. That all the company's liabilities at 31st
December, 1963, will have been paid with
interest to 30th April, 1964 (where interest is
payable on them) and provision has been
made for all outgoings to 30th April, 1964.
2. (a) The Stanhill Consolidated Ltd. debt has
been assumed to realise only £139,000.
(b) Shares in Queensland Mines Ltd. have
been reinstated on the assumption of
their value at £200,000, and the re-
covery of the amount advanced to that
company of £16,951.
(c) Shares in Holeproof Industries Ltd., New
Zealand, have been included at
£3,500,000 for the purpose cf this state-
ment.
3. (a) The proceeds of the balance payable on
the shares of 5/- each, paid to 3d., in
respect of which the sum of £341,448 is
receivable on 31st December, 1963, will
increase the net assets and shareholders'
funds by the actual amount so received,
(b) No income has been brought to account
from Holeproof Industries Ltd. New
Zealand. The income from 31st July,
1963, to 30th April, 1964, estimated to
exceed £250,000 net after tax will accrue
to Factors Limited and will increasj esti-
mated shareholders' funds by that amount.
4. The proceeds of realisable assets, debts due
to the company, the amount actually received
from the balances owing on the 3d. paid
shares, and any dividends actually received
from Holeproof Industries Ltd. New Zealand
will, it is anticipated, reduce the amount
of the loan initially to be advanced by
Commercial & General Acceptance Ltd. by
a very substantial sum.
12 Months Ended
31st July
1960
1961
1962
1963
4 Years Total:
Sales
4,854,606
5,061,366
5,386,636
5,644,682
20,947,290
Profit before Tax
333,483
415,134
571,742
687,181
2,007,540
Profit after Tax
161,941
202,775
293,488
344,171
1,002,375
Depreciation
141,471
217,090
252,604
241,797
852,962
Capital Expenditure
Dividends Paid
413,970
396,059
199,988
244,015
1,254,032
Preference
15,500
15,500
15,500
17,050
63,550
Ordinary
93,000
111,600
1 1 1,600
148,800
465,000
Salaries and Wages ....
1,570,030
1,735,931
1,783,186
1,726,453
6,815,600
Number of Employees ....
2,168
2,208
2,239
2,188
2,201
(Average)
though we’re missing out on some lines
we're making it up on others.
“In the past a great number of councils
would not allow timber-framed houses,
but now in the newer areas like Black-
town and Liverpool in the west of Sydney
there are a lot of timber-framed houses
going up.
“There is certainly some cut-throat
competition within the industry. There
are too many timber merchants for the
amount of timber being sold. A few
years ago, when a lot of houses were
being built and timber was selling well,
a lot of merchants started up in business.
The business was very lucrative. But
when Menzies put his credit squeeze on
three years ago things became tough.
Therefore prices were slashed and com-
petition became more intense. We are
only just getting our heads above water
now.
“For the future we consider that the
12 months in front of us hold good pros-
pects, extremely good. With this new
legislation of Menzies on housing and our
sound economy we will do well’’.
G. A. Duncan Pty Ltd, with ten mills
from Eden to Goondiwindi, finds sales
“strong and consistent”, said an execu-
tive. “They are well up on last year’s
figures,” he said. “From January to June
was one of the worst periods for some
time, caused primarily by the wet weather
when construction almost came to a halt.
New buildings just did not get a go on.
Sales have improved a lot in the last
quarter when the demand, pent up from
earlier this year, was satisfied. They are
now at a reasonably high level, and all
our sources of production are working
at full capacity.”
Mr Keith Hudson, a director of George
Hudson Holdings Ltd, said the increase
in building approvals would have a good
effect on the timber industry.
“Although timber is holding its own
against other building materials there
might be two possible exceptions”, said
Mr Hudson. “One is in the finishing
materials. It is getting more and more
difficult to get first-class finishing timber
and new developments in plastics and
vinyl sheetings are taking some of the
sales. The manufactured items like these
will play a more and more significant
role in the future.”
It seems that the future of the industry
is sound and expanding. But more
rationalisation to reduce the number of
producing units and consolidate smaller
mills into larger and more productive
units, even though the process is costly
and involved, could probably give the
industry better profit margins and a
more stable future.
STATISTICAL SURVEY:
[AI! figures are in Australian currency based on £124 (Aust.) for £lOO (N.Z.'l


Aid Without Trade
“Giving with one hand, taking away with the other "
From RONALD ANDERSON in Karachi
HPhe nations of Africa and Asia,
A possessing between them almost two-
thirds of the world’s population, have
a new catch-cry. Replacing the old tags
about “Colonialism must go” is a new
and significant slogan . . . NO AID
WITHOUT TRADE.
Like most slogans, it is something of
an over-simplification of a highly com-
plex problem. But it is a problem the
rest of the world will hear a lot about
in the next six months.
“No aid without trade” does not, of
course, mean that the emerging nations
of the Afro-Asian area are contemplating
economic suicide by rejecting the aid
which props their immature economies.
But it does imply a degree of economic
maturity, for it is a sign that at least
some Afro-Asian countries are realising
that aid is not an end in itself.
It is also a sign that some countries
are nearing the stage at which they can
begin thinking about standing on their
own feet.
The problem behind the slogan is that
of markets for the primary commodities
of the emerging nations and for the
products of their infant industries.
Although the problem has been
debated backwards and forwards for a
couple of years, it is only now that
Afro-Asian leaders and businessmen are
becoming truly vocal about the in-
consistency of Western nations which
offer aid of all kinds but erect
crippling barriers against the entry of
Afro-Asian products.
The fourth confess of the 41-nation
Afro-Asian Organisation for Economic
Co-operation, just concluded in Karachi,
Pakistan, was dominated by a discussion
of this problem and by planning an
Afro-Asian case against it for presenta-
tion to the UN International Trade Con-
ference in Geneva next April.
Speaker after speaker expressed
puzzlement over the attitude of the
developed nations to the problem. Their
puzzlement was non-emotional and not
unreasonable . . . nor was their concern.
A leading Pakistani, Mr M. A. Ran-
goonwala, welcoming AFRASEC dele-
gates from countries on both sides of
the Iron and Bamboo Curtains, summed
up the feelings of many speakers in
these words:
“Many of the countries of the Afro-
Asian region to a very large extent owe
their development to aid received from
the developed countries, and had it not
been for this aid many of these nations
would not have been able to make any
substantial progress with their pro-
grammes of economic development.
“Lately, however, a question has been
agitating the minds of many people in
the region: How long will these countries
continue to depend on aid, and how
will they be able to sustain their
economies if and when the flow of aid
is stopped?
“There can be no dispute over the
Masses of complicated docu-
ments and statistics are being pre-
pared for the Kennedy Round on
tariff reductions. But one simple,
uncomplicated fact will be stressed
by the under-developed nations.
They want trade in preference to
aid.
fact that aid can be but a temporary
arrangement, and it cannot be a lasting
or permanent base for a country’s
economy. It is unfortunate, however,
that some of the countries of this region
have come to look on aid as a matter
of right and refuse to think of a situa-
tion where the flow of aid is dis-
continued.
“These countries, unfortunately, do
not realise that no respectable nation
can grow and develop exclusively on
the strength of foreign aid. Aid can
only supplement a nation’s own efforts.
“The only way to reduce the con-
tinued dependence of these countries on
foreign aid is to promote their external
trade.
“It has been noticed, however and
this complaint has been quite general—
that in pushing their exports these
countries are getting very little co-
operation from the developed countries.
“The attitude of the developed
countries is not very helpful, insomuch
as attempts are made to raise various
types of barriers against exports from
the developing countries.
“This appears to be a strange and
quite un-understandable situation, quite
out of tune with the spirit of co-opera-
tion and understanding that so far has
been a distinct and admirable feature of
the relationship between the developed
and the developing nations.”
Mr Rangoonwala and many of the
speakers who followed him went on to
make a plea for the products of the
emerging nations to be allowed to find
markets in the outside world.
Neither he nor they asked for a
“special place” for the products of the
Afro-Asian countries, but merely that
they should not be blocked by “undue,
unnecessary restrictions”.
Pakistan’s sane and level - headed
President, Field - Marshal Mohammad
Ayub Khan, whose own country gets
a million dollars a day in aid from the
United States alone, went a step
further, hitting at two other, not un-
related, problems of the emerging
nations.
He said the developed countries had
“accepted philosophically” the need to
provide aid to the hungry half of the
world’s population, but had shown a
reluctance to leave the field of simple
manufacture when the emerging nations
sought to earn foreign exchange by ex-
porting simple industrial products.
“Such industry as we have been able
to set up with loans from developed
countries is thus unable to generate
foreign exchange earnings to enable us
to meet our growing foreign debt obliga-
tions,” the President said.
He said recently-published statistics
showed that in 32 less-developed coun-
tries the debt liability now absorbed 7
p.c. of the export earnings, compared
with only 3 p.c. in 1955.
The President thus touched on an-
other of the great problems facing the
developing countries the increasing
problems facing them in servicing their
foreign debts.
Whether or not this problem can be
solved by lower interest-rate loans, by
loans without interest, or in some other
way, it is becoming increasingly clear
that foreign aid programmes are alone
not sufficient for the balanced economic
growth of many of the emerging nations.
As President Ayub Khan said: “It is
self-evident that to provide aid and to
deny trade to the less developed coun-
tries amounts almost to giving with one
hand but taking away with the other.”
The problem of falling world prices
for the primary products upon which
the economies of most of the developing
nations rely—a fall which is said to have
' more than wiped out all the aid so far
given is, if anything, an even more
difficult one.
Perhaps this is something the emerging
nations will just have to accept as
philosophically as possible, at least until
their economies are more diversified.
Meantime, pressure is going to be
heavily on the developed nations to
offer aid on more favorable terms and
to accept at least a quota portion of
simple manufactures from the develop-
ing countries.


/VHC
FOR ALL FINANCE
ALSO
FACTORING-LEASING
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE CORPORATION LIMITED
OFFICES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
The Best Buys for 1964
Brokers Both Confident and Cautious
A round-up of brokers’ opinions in
Melbourne and Sydney on share
market prospects for 1964 has produced
a unanimous melody of “confidence but
caution.”
The favorable trend of general econo-
mic indicators is expected to create a
strong market optimism this year, but
all houses emphasise the need for selec-
tivity in investment. For this reason,
clients have been provided with lists of
quality stocks which their brokers say
carry more built-in protection than
weaker scrip, respond better to “bull”
markets and withstand “bear” markets
more firmly.
Early purchase is encouraged as a
quickly rising market is expected in the
early stages and holding is suggested
well into the year.
Five sections of Australian industry
were picked by Melbourne brokers as
the ones most likely to register the
greatest improvements in prosperity
building and construction, retailers, news-
paper publishers, sugar producers and
those companies which will benefit from
the current prosperity in the rural sector.
The building and construction game
will gain buoyancy from the Govern-
ment’s plans for financial help or .guar-
antees to the home buyer Australian
Gypsum, gypsum and plaster producer,
CSR, which is extensively interested in
the production and manufacture of
boards and other building materials,
Blue Metal Industries, one of the largest
quarrying companies in NSW, and Over-
seas Corporation, manufacturer of fur-
niture, kitchenware and building com-
ponents, are among the more popular
tips.
Most of the retailers, with the notable
exception of Cox Brothers, are recom-
mended as new records are expected
this year, while newspaper publishers
were favored for long-term purposes be-
cause of the benefits expected from the
introduction of decimal currency in Feb-
ruary, 1966. Support was suggested es-
pecially for West Australian Newspapers
Ltd following bonus issues by Advertiser
Newspapers and the Melbourne Herald.
CSR cropped up again when attention
was drawn to the high world sugar
prices, but Fairymead, Millaquin and
Pioneer Sugar were also strongly
favored.
Best bets from the long list of com-
panies that can benefit from rural pros-
perity are considered to be Elder Smith-
Goldsbrough Mort and Squatting Invest-
ment, mainly because of their more di-
rect connection with the land.
All these groups were recommended
highly. But voices were also heard in
support of Macßobertsons in the con-
fectionery field and AWA and Olims
in the electrical field which stands to
benefit from increased teenage spending
and the swing to transistorised radios,
television sets and tape recorders. One
observant broker pointed out that many
country television stations would join
the dividend lists this year.
A few individual companies were con-
stantly mentioned for their own virtues
and not for the prospects of their in-
dustry. The most prominent of these
were Associated Pulp, APM, Bank of
NSW, BHP, Cargo Distributors, David
Jones, Herald and Weekly Times and
Myers nearly every one a front rank
stock.
Ardlethan’s Improved Prospect
\ rdlethan Tin shareholders can con-
fidently expect an annual profit rate
far in excess of the figure estimated by
directors in the company’s prospectus
for a public issue last February. They
said earnings would equal 19.26 p.c.
(or £135,798) on capital. Their calcula-
tions were based on a tin price of
£stg.Bso a ton and annual production
of 650 tons.
However, at the company’s annual
meeting on December 31, the chairman
told shareholders that production was
expected to reach 780 tons because the
mine would be worked six days a week
instead of the five originally planned.
Even more important is the fact that
tin prices have now jumped to around
£stg. 1025 a ton.
The prospectus said that if tin prices
reached £stg. 1000 then the annual profit
would rise to £218,673 on 650 tons of
tin. Obviously the higher price and the
extra 130 tons of metal available will
lift annual earnings considerably.
In short, things look rosy for the com-
pany despite construction and establish-
ment problems in bringing in the mine.
The big problem has been the supply
of water which must be piped and chan-
nelled 33 miles from the Murrumbidgee
to the treatment plant at Ardlethan.
After 18 months of negotiating with the
local council on the finance for the pipe-
line, directors were obliged to borrow
£lOO,OOO from a “lending institution” to
finance construction by next March.
The prospectus estimated this cost at
only £BO,OOO and also said that tin pro-
duction would start by January. The
original cost estimates have been con-
siderably increased by this delay in addi-
tion to improvements made in plant de-
sign and the provision of a higher
crushing capacity.
Monhulk’s Start in Meat
move made last June by Monbulk
Preserves into the killing and whole-
sale distribution of meat from Doveton
(Vic.) has proved unsuccessfu' in the
initial stages.
The preliminary statement of this Vic-
torian jam-making and fruit-canning
group reveals that the meat venture
contributed nothing to the small rise
from £53,979 to £55,419 in profit in
the year to September 30. In fact, a
small initial loss was suffered on meat
and this has been written into the ac-
counts as establishment expenses.
Even though it was made 21 months
into the current year, the preliminary
statement unfortunately gives no clue
on the state of meat operations since
balance date. The chairman however,
may be waiting until the meeting when
shareholders will expect a full account
of this aspect of the company’s opera-


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH:
2 Denham Street Phone 6089
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: GEORGE DRURY, late of 13 Clifford
Road, Miranda. TAKE NOTICE that STELLA
DRURY has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
4345 of 1963 on the ground of separation. If
you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court,
Macquarie Street, Sydney, within 28 days
from the date of this publication and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
UGHTOLLER, TALTY & BROOKE, Solicitors,
231 Macquarie Street, Sydney C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
tions. The original idea of the venture
into meat was to counter difficulties in
the canned fruits side of the business.
ICIANZ’s Queensland Project
Tn its first major venture in Queensland,
ICIANZ has a majority interest
(55 p.c.) in a joint project with Queens-
land fertiliser, ACF and Shirleys, to
build a £3 million plant at Pinkenba, at
the mouth of the Brisbane River, to
produce ammonia for industrial use.
It is envisaged that the plant’s base
stocks could come from the two oil
refineries being built nearby as refinery
gas, natural gas and light naphtha are
raw materials used in ammonia produc-
tion. ICIANZ expects production will
eventually mean a saving on imports of
over £3 million a year and give per-
manent employment to more than 100
people.
Disappointed in Love
TUlaker of Uncle Toby’s foods, laundry
and industrial starches and stock
feeds, Clifford Love and Co. Ltd disap-
pointed by earning less than the reduced
dividend commitment.
Earning rate was 6.6 p.c. (previously
8.7 p.c.) and dividend H p.c. (84 p.c.) for
the year to September 30.
Trouble was that all grains were higher
in price in 1962-63. Prospects for the
next oat harvest are brighter.
The four-for-five bonus of 1955 gave
little benefit in income for shareholders,
and two issues in the ration of one-for-
five (one at par, the other at Is. premium)
do not qualify the stock for the ranks of
growth stocks.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Heeding the Optimists
tTWT was the holiday, that was. I hope
you’ve all waded your way through
it successfully and now arrived soberly
at the other side.
Me? No parties, no sunburn, no
traffic jams—not even an MBE. Instead
they beached me in hospital for a couple
of weeks to remove the barnacles. From
this has emerged a new, improved 1964
model Speculator, rampant and ready
for action.
While meditating in my bed, I found
the 1964 prophecies just a bit con-
fusing. The PM (as those who would
like to be his associates call him) declared
that this year would be one of “pros-
perous development”. For the leaders
of the Chambers of Manufactures and
Commerce, the prospect of increased
profits was almost too much a year
of “great opportunities”, “period of
growth”, “rising level of demand”, and
so on.
The “SMH”, however, remembered
to look over its shoulder at President
Soekarno and concluded that 1964
would be “the most perilous and testing
period since the war’s end”. Being a
true Australian. I preferred to ignore this
and heed the business optimists.
Actually I’d already done this before
Christmas when 1 spent up big. When
the outlook is good, it usually pays to
buy before Christmas and sell after-
wards. In the final two days of trading
before Christmas I bought AWA and
O’Donnell Griffin and Stocks and Hold-
ings.
I realise that AWA is essentially an
investor's stock and not a speculator s.
But when the price slipped back to 265.
following the chairman’s “need to con-
serve funds” statement, I bought 200.
AWA is renowned for its conservatism
and there's certainly nothing new about
this “conserving funds” business. Already
the company has conserved about £2
million in cash and tax provision greater
than its declared profit. Most of us
tend to associate AWA with TV sets,
but its real interests are in electronic
communications such as TV trans-
mitters, navigation equipment and two-
way radios, not to mention the growing
forest of traffic lights around this town.
O’Donnell Griffin is another electrical
stock but its operations are in electrical
engineering and contracting with a sub-
stantial TV service business on the side.
And O'Donnell Griffin also has a tax
provision more or less equal to its profit.
There is a one-for-four premium
issue coming up later in January and,
with the prospect of a strong share
market then, 1 figured it would be better
to buy now rather than wait for the
rights. The issue is at 12s. 6d. a share
and it could be that the shares will finish
up at the same price ex-rights as they
were cum rights before Christmas.
That is roughly what happened with
W.J. Manufacturing, which also had a
one-for-four issue at much the same
price, although I realise its are 10s.
shares. Issues by smaller, lesser-known
companies like W.J. and O'D.G. often
have the advantage of attracting atten-
tion to those stocks. With all this in
mind, I bought 400 two days before
Christmas at 21s. 6d.
Stocks and Holdings I’ve had my eye
on for months. An important part of
S. & H.’s business is in real estate, and
more particularly in its “Gold Star”
homes. Both should now be getting a
good boost from the Government’s
housing incentives. The shares had
been steady for some time around
15s. 3d. but suddenly began to move
just before Christmas. I got my 400
at an average price of 15s. 9d.
As I write this after the first day’s
trading in the New Year, I’m more than
pleased with my Christmas shopping.
The market's good start to the year also
enabled me to sell my Commercial
Guaranty and Martin Wells at good
profits (£2B and £43 respectively).
Details of this business were:
BOUGHT
200 AW A, 26/3 £268
400 O’Donnell Griffin, 21/6 £440
400 Stocks & Holdings, 15/9 .... £323
SOLD
1000 Commercial Guaranty, 6/9 £327
1000 Martin Wells, 15/- £733
Although these two sales brought in
£lO6O, they still left me owing £355.
Nothing unusual about that.
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per r ® n *
Shares Company Bought Share Price
2000 Hanimex 23/5/62 9/6 13/9
1000 Aeron 14/8/63 7/9
500 Elders GM 12/9 24/- 26/1
400 ISAS 24 /9/63 18/- 19/6
200 Gibson & Howes 2/10/63 57/- 71/6
400 Larke 17/10/63 11/- 12/-
500 Hestia 23/10/63 9/6 8/11
2000 Mid Eastern 24/10/63 2 6 2/4
2000 ODE ' 29/10/o3 5/6 6/3
1000 Mobile Equip. 30/10/63 8/4 9/-
800 Tableland Tin 5/11/63
,0 4°oS Sw. hiP ’ """ 12/11/63 ™ W-
-200 £l 22/I|/43 2?/3
200 W. Adams notes 2/12/63 49/6 53/-
■ 1000 Ansett 2/12/63 7/7 8/3
500 Country Television 3/12/63 12/- 13/6
1000 R. &N. Statham 11/12/63 10.9 11/6
200 AWA 20/12/63 26/3 _ 27/-
400 O'Donnell Griffin 23/12/63 21/6 22/3
400 Stocks & Holdings 23/12/63 15/9 16/6


SECURITY ANALYSIS
A Share that is “Certainly Undervalued”
Has Take-over Raised Doubts in Investors ’ Minds?
A lthough the Sydney Stock Exchange
index for all ordinary shares declined
by 131 p.c. during 1962, it has since risen
from this 1962 low point (at the end of
September) by just over 27 p.c. to the
1963 peak. The index for the food,
drink and tobacco group, while it de-
clined by the same percentage during
1962, has since risen by 331 p.c.
It is, therefore, rather strange that
Marrickville Holdings’ shares are today
selling below the prices of September,
1962, and have, in fact, fallen as low
as 19s. 6d. which is' 15 p.c. below the
September, 1962, level.
It may well be pointed out that the
strong rise in price of CSR shares has
contributed in no small measure to the
rise of the food group index. But even
so, there is little doubt that Marrick-
ville’s shares have been moving against
the general trend. A recovery was staged
in early September, 1963, but this was
of short duration and it now seems that
the shares may be destined to stay
around 225. to 235. for a little while.
At these prices the immediate dividend
yield is between 3.4 p.c. and 3.3 p.c.
and it may well be that no stock should
be priced to show a lower yield than
this, despite an excellent past record.
But, of the 18 companies included in
the food group index, eight are yielding
3 p.c. or less, and, with the exception
perhaps of Mauri Bros & Thompson,
those lower yielders cannot demonstrate
a better history of growth than Marrick-
ville.
"VTo doubt considerable doubts have been
placed in the investors’ minds by
the take-over of Olympic Bowling
Centres Ltd last April, and it does seem
that far too much emphasis has been
placed on this particular transaction in
some quarters. The shares issued by
Marrickville to acquire this company
have a par value of £210.000 approxi-
mately, or 7J p.c. of the present issued
capital. Consequently it would be suf-
ficient if this venture contributed about
£46,000 to the net profit after tax.
Olympic Bowling earned over £30,000
in the first six months of 1962-63, and
while there was some suggestion that it
did not operate profitably in the months
of January and February, it seems fairly
clear that the ordinary capital issued for
this acquisition should certainly be at
least as profitable as the existing ordin-
ary capital.
Other factors which may contribute
to investors’ uncertainty are the refer-
ences which have been made to Marrick-
ville in connection with margarine
quotas. While table margarine may well
be a profitable business, production is
relatively static, and in 1962-63 rep-
resented about 23 p.c. of production of
the margarine and edible fats recorded
by the Commonwealth Statistician.
The production of margarine for in-
dustrial purposes has increased by over
52 p.c. in the six years to June 30, 1963,
and is continuing to increase, as pro-
duction in the 12 months to the end of
September, 1963, was 7 p.c. up on the
12 months to June, 1963. Production
of other edible fats is available only
since 1959-60 but has increased by no
less than 29 p.c. in three years.
On the other hand, Marrickville’s
expansion into the fields of flour and
glycerine would seem to be due to
reasons other than a desire to get into a
rapidly expanding market. Production
of refined glycerine has been declining
and this decline continued into the Sep-
tember, 1963, quarter.
Similar declines are also noticeable in
flour and allied products such as
bran and pollard, although there seems
to have been some recovery in the Sep-
tember, 1963, quarter.
Looking at the rather complicated
diagram produced in the company’s
annual report, it would seem these two
acquisitions, F. Crago and Glycerine
Distillery Co., fit fairly well into the
overall pattern.
With the exception of bowling centres,
the group’s activities seem to be con-
centrated on supplying the general public
and manufacturers with edible oils and
fats. Added to this is a very substan-
tial distribution system which must be
an attraction to overseas groups such as
Proctor and Gamble.
Over the last ten years dividend in-
come from Marrickville Holdings’ shares
has increased by nearly 93 p.c. and this
has arisen from a l-for-2 bonus issue
and two cash issues. The rate of growth
in dividend income has been 11 p.c. per
annum compound on average, but earn-
ings growth has not matched this rate.
On the same basis, earnings have in-
creased at 61 p.c. per annum and,
although the present dividend of 15 p.c.
is well covered, per share earnings
would need to pick up somewhat to
allow the same rate of dividend increase
to continue indefinitely. Even so, divi-
dends could increase at this 11 p.c. rate
for the next ten years before they
exceeded earnings, provided earnings
continued to increase at 61 p.c. per
annum.
It is worth pointing out, perhaps, that
if the past rate of dividend increase did
continue for the next ten years and
thereafter the rate of increase declined
to only 3 p.c. per annum, the effective
yield from the stock purchased at present
prices would be 9 p.c.
market seems to be expecting a
growth rate in dividends per share of
about 8 p.c. per annum and perhaps this
is more in line with future prospects.
But if this is so, one wonders why better
things are expected from Allied Mills
where a growth rate of 12 p.c. seems to
be expected. If the market has correctly
valued the prospects of the leading com-
panies in the food, drink and tobacco
group, it certainly has undervalued
Marrickville.
At this stage, investors could switch
from Allied Mills to Marrickville and
increase their immediate dividend in-
come by 16 p.c. (even after allowing for
brokerage and stamp duty) and have
much the same prospects for future
dividend increases.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
Year to June 30, 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 2463 2560 3853 3549 4002
Current liabilities 1414 1844 1640 1448 2155
Net working
capital 1049 716 2213 2101 1847
Fixed assets 2270 3291 4162 4085 7007
Investments 196 356 507 774 825
Intangibles 456 502 365 335 580
Total capital 3971 4865 7247 7295 10259
Represented by:
Loan capital 700 800 1264 1064 1825
Minority interests 317
Pref. capital 200 200 200 200 200
Ord. capital 1263 1961 2532 2543 2890
Reserves 1808 1904 3251 3488 5027
Depreciation 190 226 253 301 370
Tax provided 334 370 371 428 474
Pref. dividend 10 10 10 10 10
Minority interests —- 6
Earnings 336 428 459 540 603
Orcf. dividend 193 286 350 393 419
Surplus 143 142 109 147 184
Earn, per share
(shillings) (a) 0.81 1.03 0.98 1.03 1.08
Div. per share
(shillings) (a) 0.46 0.69 0.75 0.75 0.75
Earn, yield
p.c. (b) 4.7 4.5 3.6 4.2 4.7'
Div. yield
p.c. (b) 4.0 3.0 3.0 3.2 3.4
(a) Adjusted for bonus issues and bonus content of
cash issues.
(b) Based on last sale in month accounts presented.


J. B. & FRANK CHARLTON
STOCK & SHARE BROKERS
F. B. Charlton J. F. Charlton
J. M. Fay C. A. B. Marjason
1. L. Russell
Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING
309 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Phone 22775 Box 61A G.P.O.
TOOWOOMBA BRANCH
A.M.P. Building, Ruthven Street
Phone 2 5206
THE FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
LTD,
FIFTY (50) YEARS
OF SERVICE
191 2 196 2
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, PUBLIC
RISK, WORKERS' COMPENSATION &
MOTOR VEHICLE
20 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
pipcr-TOP';.
ALFRED S WHITE (Chairman),
D G. PETTIGREW (Managing Director),
E. G CONEN, T. K. MAGNEY,
A. G PARKER, DOUGLAS WADLEY,
B J. LANE (Manager).
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Phone: 27-7401
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Carpet Co’s Erratic Div. Policy
A lthough group sales of Carpet
Manufacturers Ltd were a record,
net profit showed only a modest
improvement on the indifferent result
for 1961-62.
Competition in retailing and in the
Australian carpet industry is intense,
the chairman (Mr T. G. Rowe) re-
ported in his annual address.
Other local manufacturers heavily
discounted their stocks of woven woollen
carpets before introducing types with
blended pile. Carpet Manufacturers,
however, believes in the woollen article,
and therefore maintained prices.
The chairman referred to the high cost
of raw materials, both wool and jute,
and higher wage costs which suppress
profit margins. However, he was hope-
ful that the recent increase in home
building would have a beneficial effect
cn the company’s orders and production
to offset the higher costs.
The year to June last was not as
profitable as anticipated, and there was
some tapering off in the last three
months.
Resuit of trading was a net profit of
£98,142 compared with £86,310 the
previous year, after allowing £89,409
(£82,442 in 1961-62) for tax, and
£128,818 (£126,781) for depreciation.
Lower profits were earned by all sub-
sidiaries in 1962-63.
Earning rate looked slightly healthier
at 8.9 p.c. (formerly 7.8 p.c.), so direc-
tors were encouraged to revive the
dividend rate to 8 p.c. from a recent
low of 6 p.c.
The company’s carpeting is made at
Five Dock (NSW) and sold under the
“Hy-Craft” brand. In December, 1959,
J. M. Todd (Holdings) Ltd., which had
been Carpet Manufacturers’ distributor
for many years, was taken over for a
share consideration.
In 1959-60 the investment in Sydney
Woollen Mills Ltd was increased to a
51 p.c. holding. Group accounts since
then have included that company.
Otherwise, since the one-for-four par
issue in 1954 to shareholders, there
have been no capital issues except to
Bigelow-Sanford Carpet Co. of New
York and John Crossley-Carpet Trades
(Holdings) Ltd of UK for machinery
and technical assistance. Technical
liaison is also maintained with James
Templeton and Co. Ltd of Scotland.
J. M. Todd (Holdings) Pty altered
Hy-Craft House in Clarence Street,
Sydney, during the year and is leasing
the building apart from the ground-floor
showrooms.
It seems to be the company’s practice
to pay well when earnings are good, so
that the dividend payments are almost
as erratic as the earnings. The com-
pany had a bumper year in 1959-60,
but performance since then has been an
anticlimax.
At 265. the 20s. shares are well
covered by assets of 355. 4d. per share,
but it is earnings which count most for
the investor.
The inconsistent record would deter
most institutional investors, but that is
not to say that the stock cannot be
rewarding for the individual.
With most economic signs favorable
the climate for Carpet Manufacturers
appears “fair”, and a purchase at
present levels could pay off within a
relatively short period. It is never a
stock, however, to put away and forget.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Including Sydney
Woollen Mills
Current assets 824 1266 1205 1543 1495
Less current
liabilities 305 610 718 753 678
Working capital 519 656 487 790 817
Investments 93 144 144
Fixed assets 944 1160 1374 1820 1798
1556 1960 2005 2610 2615
Loan capital 478 593 231 223 215
Minority interests 434 443
Ord. capital 668 748 1107 1107 1107
Reserves 410 619 667 846 850
1556 1960 2005 2610 2615
Depreciation 73 128 116 127 129
Taxation 99 202 114 82 89
Net profit 133 221 141 86 98
Dividend 67 94 99 66 89
Surplus 66 127 42 20 9
Earning rate 19.6 29.6 12.8 7.8 8.9
Dividend rate 10 12J 9 6 8
Div. yield (a) 5.4 6.3 7.9 5.3 6.5
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 9.5 6.7 8.9 14.5 13.7
High price (b) 26/- 39/- 50/- 42/6 29/-
Low price (b) 14/6 25/- 35/- 20/- 20/9
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
WATSON AND CRANE HOLDINGS LTD
Another Bad Debts Case
llTatson and Crane Holdings Ltd is
"" one of many companies to attribute
a decline in earnings in the 1962-63 finan-
cial year to excessive and unexpected bad
debts.
However, despite a write - off of
£10,039, earnings in the latest year to
June 30 declined only from £25,324
(equal to 9.7 p.c. on capital) to £23,802
(equal to 9.2 p.c.). The result was achiev-
ed after a sharp increase in tax provision
from £9900 to £ 14,500 although depre-
ciation was virtually steady at £10,484.
The company began operations 86
years ago, but did not seek Stock Ex-
change listing until late in 1960 when it
issued 162,202 10s. shares to the public
at par, lifting paid up capital to
£260,000.
It began operations as a brass foundry
and has since expanded to cover the
business of warehouseman in plumbers’
and builders’ hardware. The foundry
section also handles specialised casting
work for general industry.
Although the prospectus of the public
float forecast dividends of 10 p.c., this
rate has not yet been achieved; a 9 p.c.


LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
LANCE GRAHAM
Member ot the Sydney Stock Exchange
56 HUNTER STREET
SYDNEY
Telephone: 28-5721
felegroms: ILogram. Sydney
payout was made in the first year, but
since then, payouts have been held at
8 p.c.
Still, in an industry which suffered
severely from the effects of the credit
squeeze, the company has done well to
maintain its dividend at this rate and
but for last year's excessive bad debts
might have been able to raise the pay-
out to 10 p.c.
The current year has opened well with
sales for the first few months above
those of the previous corresponding
period.
A new roofing division which began
operations in April, 1962, made satis-
factory progress and after the delays
caused by the wet weather earlier this
year it is now on a profit-earning basis.
Its activities have been extended inter-
state.
The latest accounts show a tightening
of liquidity following the increase in
business. Stock is up from £ 169,527 to
£184,610 and debtors from £244,972
to £272,547. The increases were
financed partly by greater use of un-
secured loans at call (up from £11,250
to £19,086) and partly by the lift in
creditors from £194,262 to £227,028.
Bank overdraft is virtually steady at
£69,966.
The reserve position is strong, with
capital reserves of £94,709. Total
reserves and surplus profit of £152,147,
subject to intangibles of £58,752,
principally goodwill on consolidation,
give an assets backing to each 10s. share
of 13s. 7d.
The shares are currently selling at
11s. Bd. to show a dividend yield of
6.9 p.c. and an earnings yield of 7.9 p.c.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 384 410 420 465
Less current liabilities 331 280 309 358
Working capital 53 130 111 107
Fixed assets 310 312 312 309
Intangibles 58 63 61 59
421 505 484 475
Represented by:
Capital 180 260 260 260
Capital reserves 99 95 95
Other reserves 160 69 57 57
Mortgage 81 77 72 63
421 505 484 475
Depreciation n.a. 11 11 10
Taxation n.a. 16 10 15
Profit 26 24 25 24
Dividend 16 17 21 21
Surplus 10 7 4 3
Dividend p.c 9 8 8 8
Earnings p.c. 14.7 11.5 9.7 9.1
Dividend yield (a) 8.4 7.8 7.2
High price (b) 13/- 12/3 11/3
Low price (b) 8/6 8/- 9/9
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) vear.
PROTECTOR SAFETY INDUSTRIES
Priced for Scarcity
IT|espite disruptions caused by a move
to larger premises, recently listed
Protector Safety Industries Ltd lifted
profit by 22 p.c. to a record £.75,689
in the year to June 30.
From these earnings, equal to 37.8
p.c. on capital, the company paid a 10
p.c. dividend for the second year of
listing.
The group made its Stock Exchange
debut early in 1962 after a placement
of 300,000 ss. shares at ss. 3d. plus
charges and has ever since remained at
a high premium.
The company had a successful 21-year
history prior to flotation, specialising in
a wide range of industrial safety equip-
ment relating particularly to the head
and face as well as - the respiratory
system.
Branches operate in Melbourne and
Adelaide, while a factory began opera-
tions in New Zealand in 1959. There
is also an export trade to South-East
Asia.
Following the move to larger premises
in the latest year, the company has
embarked on an expansion programme
which includes an arrangement with a
US company for the local manufacture
of products previously imported.
This will be done by a jointly owned
company with the US associate provid-
ing the specialised machinery and know-
how.
Paid-up capital of Protector is a small
£200,000 in ss. shares on which earnings
in the first year as a public listing was
a high 31 p.c., rising to 37.8 p.c. last
year.
The latest accounts show that the
company financed most of its develop-
ment during the past year with loan
funds —£15,000 in mortgages, £BO,OOO in
term loans and £24,000 in a loan on call
With this high borrowing ratio, a new
share issue cannot be far away.
Reflecting the transfer to the new
premises, and the acquisition by the New
Zealand subsidiary of premises in Auck-
land, fixed assets are up from £84,994 to
£256,459.
Stock indicating to some extent the
increase in business, goes up from
£142,475 to £197,813.
Capital is backed by reserves, all
surplus prefit, of £89,193 and after
allowing for intangible items totalling
£31,235, net assets backing of each ss.
share is 6s. sd.
The market is pricing the shares at a
high 245. 6d., probably on a scarcity
basis, for the dividend yield is a mere
2.0 p.c., although earninss yield is
7.7 p.c.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
1962 1963
Current assets 257 308
Less current liabilities 150 212
Working capital 107 96
Fixed assets 85 256
Investments 15
Intangibles 35 31
242 384
Represented by:
Copital 200 200
Reserves 42 89
Loan funds 95
242 384
Depreciation 10 13
Taxation 43 42
Net profit 62 76
Dividend 20 20
Surplus 42 56
Dividend p.c 10 10
Earnings p.c. .’ 31.0 37.8
Dividend yield (a) 3.3 2.3
High price (b) 17/- 21/9
Low price (b) 7/6 15/9
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.


AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS LTD
Growth with Motor Industry
chairman of Automotive Com-
ponents Ltd (Mr K. Mainon) drew
attention in his 1963 annual review to
the tremendous growth in the motor
vehicle industry.
Total vehicle population, he said, grew 7
from 1,359,000 in 1950 to 3,238,314 at
the May, 1963, census. (That represents
one vehicle for approximately 3-4
persons.)
New vehicle registrations for Auto
Components’ financial year (to June 30,
1963) were 344,983, the highest yet
recorded. They compared with 268,096
in 1962 and 237,740 in 1961.
The latest year was, therefore, a
healthier period for all businesses con-
nected with the motor vehicle industry.
Automotive Components scored with
a record profit of £163,105, being a 28
p.c. increase on that for 1962. Pro-
visions for tax and depreciation
(£109,512 and £107,195 respectively)
were greater than ever before.
Sales rose 14 p.c. in the face of
intense competition from the local
market and imports. The chairman
mentioned that imports of automotive
components exceeded £lOO million and
are still rising.
The company sees many avenues for
sales growth, particularly in original
equipment, while the number of vehicles
from three to ten years old. representing
the replacement market, has increased
almost three times since 1955.
The company was incorporated in
1951 to amalgamate Poison Motor Parts
Co. Pty Ltd of Melbourne and Blax-
land Rae Pty Ltd of Sydney. Other sub-
sidiaries have been acquired since the
amalgamation.
Activities have been extended from
the manufacture of engine parts used as
original equipment and replacements to
automotive parts merchandising, engine
reconditioning, exchange engines and
associated services.
In 1962 Perfect Circle Australia Pty,
one of the group, obtained contracts to
supply a considerable proportion of
piston rings for Falcon and Holden
cars.
The company has direct sales rep-
resentation in Sydney, Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Perth and Adelaide. Four new
branches were opened in Toowoomba
(Q'ld), Coff’s Harbour (NSW), and
Morwell and Coburg (Vic.), during the
year under review. Most were trading
for only two months of the year, so the
full benefit will not be experienced until
the latter part of the current financial
year.
Exports showed a limited, but satis-
factory, growth of sales.
The greater sales volume and the extra
branches demanded an increase in
inventories of £255,857 to £1,302,240
as at June 30. Debtors likewise rose
from £471,781 to £542,976.
In the last five years paid capital has
almost doubled as a result of share issues
to acquire a number of subsidiaries
(particularly in 1960), by a one-for-three
par issue in February, 1960, and a
premium placement in May, 1961.
Otherwise the company has financed its
development by unsecured note issues,
and by use of bank overdraft.
Working capital fell in 1962-63, and
on April 9, 1964, the company is liable
to redeem £177,300 in notes.
Although the current trend of trading
is very encouraging, the latest earning
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 973 1293 1650 1533 1871
Less current
liabilities 643 643 896 796 1278
Working capital 330 650 754 737 593
Fixed assets 1212 1356 1594 1617 1667
Intangibles 432 434 398 398 398
1974 2440 2746 2752 2658
Minority interests 6
Loan capital 490 537 613 602 473
Ord. capital 630 1041 1251 1251 1251
Reserves 848 862 882 899 934
1974 2440 2746 2752 2658
Depreciation 68 77 87 92 107
Taxation 52 60 40 81 110
Net profit 102 103 78 127 163
Dividend 55 84 58 100 125
Surplus 47 19 20 27 38
Earning rate 18.6 12.4 6.7 10.2 13.0
Dividend rate 10 10 5 8 10
Dividend rate (a) 4.3 5.7 4.9 5.6 6.3
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 12.3 13.3 14.9 14.1 12.0
High price (b) 7/3 13/- 10/11 7/10 7/6
Low price (b) 6/3 6/9 7/3 4/8 5/4
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
rate of 13 p.c. does not give great margin
for the restored dividend of 10 p.c. The
company is, therefore, more likely to
depend on fresh capital of a fixed in-
terest nature than share capital for its
current expansion.
At Bs. the ss. shares yield just under
6.3 p.c. in income, and 8.1 p.c. on earn-
ings which should be improved on in the
current term. Gentle appreciation may
be expected above the current price.
Business Tours for
Visitors to US
HThe US Consulate-General has a list ©f
tours of American industrial plants
which are open to visitors. It is designed
to assist businessmen, who intend visiting
the US, to plan their itineraries.
Seminars and workshop sessions are
also offered by many industries. As an
example, the National Cash Register’s in-
ternational seminar in modern merchan-
dising methods has attracted 750 over-
seas visitors during the past year. The
meetings are devoted to a study of
American supermarkets and selling tech-
niques. They are open to operators of
supermarkets, managers of food stores,
manufacturers of food and store equip-
ment as well as to people serving the
food industry.
Dog Repellent
A nimal Repellents, Inc., of Griffin,
Georgia (USA), wants an Australian
distributor for its line of “Halt” dog
repellent.
The firm states that “Halt” was deve-
loped, in co-operation with the United
States Post Office, primarily to protect
those people who make regular calls on
homes, where quite often dogs are a
problem.
The package is an aerosol can con-
taining one half ounce of liquid that is
ejected in a fine stream from 8 to 15
feet in length, into the dog’s eyes and
face.
“Halt” is claimed to be completely
harmless to the dog.
Interested firms are invited to get in
touch with Vice-Consul Alix Bouldin.
Plastic Bag Closures
IZwik Lok Corporation, of Visalia,
California, manufacturer of a range
of plastic clip-on closures and labels for
polythene bags and plastic bag-closing
and labelling machinery, is interested in
appointing an Australian distributor for
its products. These products are covered
by American and foreign patents.
If a sufficient volume of business is
developed in Australia, the firm would
consider appointing a manufacturing
licensee.
Descriptive literature, price lists, and
samples may be viewed in the com-
mercial library of the US Consulate-
General.


Established 1891
A correspondence school of
world-wide repute, with
branches throughout the British
Commonwealth, U.S.A. and
other countries, teaching a
wide range of constantly
revised
Vocational,
Technical,
Commercial,
Professional,
Educational
subjects by the Home-Study
method. Full particulars sent
on request to:
The Principal,
International Correspondence Schools,
400 Pacific Highway, Crow’s Nest, N.S.W.
43-2121. Branch Offices in All States and New
Zealand.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND
We Buy Pakistan’s Wool
Sheep With Floppy Ears mid Huge, Fat Tails
FROM RONALD ANDERSON IN KARACHI
dominates the world wool
picture . . . possessing more sheep
than any other nation, producing and
exporting more wool than any other
country and ranking as the world’s major
source of fine wools. But in spite of this
pre-eminence Australia still imports wool
and one of the sources of this wool is
Pakistan. In fact Australia and Pakistan
are in the interesting position of each
selling the other wool.
Because of the predominance of fine-
woolled merino sheep in her flocks, Aus-
tralia lacks the coarse wool types best
suited to carpet manufacture and these
are the wools up to £250,000 worth
a year that she buys from Pakistan.
Pakistan, on the other hand, has chiefly
coarse-woolled sheep and lacks the fine
wools best-suited to clothing manufac-
ture. She, therefore, buys about £i
million of these wools from Australia,
chiefly in scoured and tops form.
The trade is plainly not a big one,
but it does not set the limits to wool links
between the two countries.
Under the Colombo Plan Australia Is
actively assisting development of the still
backward Pakistan sheep industry
both by the training of Pakistani tech-
nicians in Australia and by the provision
of direct aid in the forms of money,
equipment and sheep.
At present Pakistan has only 7 million
sheep about 5 p.c. of Australia’s
flocks. Many Pakistani flocks, chiefly
family-owned, consist of only 10 or a
'dozen sheep. There are no pastures in
the accepted sense, and shepherded flocks
: live on what little herbage they can pick
up in a mile or two radius of the village.
Wool production, at 4ilb a head
from two shearings a year, is only half
the Australian average, and falls still
further behind when burrs and dirt are
removed.
Much of the wool is colored and the
summer fleeces from even the “white”
sheep are quite yellow.
The sheep themselves bear little
resemblance to Australia’s stately
merinos. Often they look more like
goats, with their shaggy fleeces, big
floppy ears and huge, fat tails.
Most are kept not only for wool, but
for meat and milk, and this creates
problems when attempts are made to
encourage the raising of better-quality
wool.
Although wool accounts for only
four or five per cent of Pakistan’s
exports it is still the third greatest export
product.
In the past the industry has been
neglected as far as research is concerned.
Much basic information is lacking —so
much so, in fact, that current efforts to
improve wool production have had to
begin with the first complete and detailed
survey of Pakistan sheep types and their
wool, meat and milk characteristics.
IT'rom this survey Pakistan’s largely Aus-
tralian-trained wool scientists hope to
be able to select the breeds best-suited
to wool production in various areas.
Concurrently small flocks of Aus-
tralian sheep, including Corriedales and
Dorset Horns supplied under the
Colombo Plan, and Polwarths donated
by the Apex Clubs of Victoria, are
being carefully acclimatised and ex-
panded.
Later these flocks will be crossed with
native breeds in an attempt to produce
fine-woolled sheep, yielding more wool
but still suited to the rigorous climatic
conditions of Pakistan.
Australian merinos are not suited to
Pakistan. In the mountains they would
not survive the harsh winters and on the
burning plains of the Punjab and Sind
they would quickly wilt in the searing
120 deg. F. summers.
Wisely, however, the Pakistani scien-
tists are not seeking to switch over
entirely to the production of finer wools.
Because of Pakistan’s pressing need to
save on foreign exchange she hopes
eventually to produce some finer wools
—to at least partially replace present
imports from Australia and elsewhere.
But for the most part she will concen-
trate on producing carpet-type wools of
higher quality and in greater quantities.
To achieve this end she already has
in operation a strict system of quality
testing for all export wools. These wools,
produced almost entirely in West Paki-
stan, are cleaned and washed before
being packed under Government super-
vision. Each bale is then sampled and
the wool tested at Karachi’s Wool Test
House, a testing centre staffed sub-
stantially by scientists trained at Gee-
long’s Gordon Institute. Wool which
fails the Government test is rejected and
may not be exported.
HThis programme has already lifted the
world reputation of Pakistan carpet
wools.
In addition, a wool scouring plant has
now been established in Karachi, and
today one-fifth of the 100,000 bales of
wool exported by Pakistan each year
are scoured.
These exports are worth about £7
million a year to Pakistan. Ninety-five
per cent of the exported wool goes to
Britain and the United States, in about
equal proportions. Australia’s wool pur-
chases from Pakistan are chiefly of
scoured wool.
Pakistan’s biggest industry, jute pro-
duction and manufacture, also has a
link with the Australian wool industry,
as Australia is probably Pakistan’s
biggest customer for jute manufactures.
These consist largely of wool packs,
wheat sacks and to a lesser extent fer-
tiliser sacks. These Australian sales,
including some of raw jute for carpet
backing, are worth about £5 million a
year to Pakistan.


Quality Payments for Milk
NSW First State to Introduce New System
VTew South Wales is about to become
the first Australian State to replace
quantity with quality as the basis on
which producers are paid for wholemilk.
When the system is introduced there,
Australia will have begun to line up
with a number of other countries that
have made, or soon will, a change that
is vital to both the farmer and his
customers.
No details of the scheme have yet been
released, for the New South Wales au-
thorities are still thinking them out, but
the chairman of the NSW Milk Board,
Mr J. Ferguson, said recently that qual-
ity payments for milk would be made as
soon as possible.
The Board’s decision follows visits by
some of its top officials to other coun-
tries, and the chairman himself took the
opportunity to discuss the quality-pay-
ment method with world experts when
he attended the recent conference of
the International Dairy Federation in
New Zealand. He found that authorities
from countries advanced in dairying were
unanimous in their preference for it.
Once, when nutrition was simpler and
economics made the relationship between
the human and his food a straight-out
matter of getting enough to eat, butter-
fat was the most important item in milk.
The other solids were thought of as little
more that a vehicle for the fat to ride in,
although some were useful, such as
casein for making knife handles.
Now, with living standards buoyant
in the fortunate parts of the world, people
are less interested in getting enough to
eat than in eating without getting too
much. Those not alarmed about flabbi-
ness and heart disease can get all the
fats they require from meats and a
variety of other sources, and are no
longer dependent for them on milk.
TLfoREOVER, with so much food pro-
cessed and packaged in ways that
seem close to making it synthetic, people
have become more concerned about satis-
fying needs for nutriments more elusive
than fats, and attention has accordingly
swung to less conspicuous components of
milk that can cause more than skinni-
ness if they are missing from the diet.
Economically, too, the trend is in
favor of subordinating butterfat to
other substances as the emphasis in
dairying swings from over-produced but-
ter to more sophisticated products like
powdered and condensed milk.
Most countries have always insisted
that milk for humans should contain a
certain minimum of butterfat and solids-
not-fat, and impose penalties if the stan-
dards are not met. It is only recently,
however, that some of them have intro-
duced systems requiring the measuring
of solids other than fat on an individual
rather than a collective basis.
In designing a scheme of its own, New
South Wales is examining a number of
systems, but the one being tipped as a
model is the British, introduced less than
a year ago.
Britain has gone so cold on the butter-
fat standard that serious officials in the
Ministry of Agriculture have suggested
that steps be taken to reduce the amount
of fat in milk so that people will have
to drink more to satisfy their needs and
thus help reduce the country’s deluvian
surplus.
HThe British scheme divides milk sup-
plies into three classes according to
the total solids content, with differential
payments of so much a gallon in each
class.
Class A includes all milk with an
annual average total solids content of
12.6 p.c. or more, provided the solids-
not-fat content is greater than 8.4 p.c.
Producers of Class A milk receive a
premium of 2d. a gallon above the stan-
dard price.
Class B includes supplies with an aver-
age total solids content of between 12
p.c. and 12.6 p.c., and a minimum solids-
not-fat content of 8.4 p.c. Producers
of Class B milk get the standard price
for each gallon in the class.
Class C covers all supplies with an an-
nual total solids content of less than
12 p.c. and all those whose solids-not-
fat percentage is 8.4 or less. Producers
of Class C milk receive the standard
price less 3d. a gallon.
After a year in Class C, if the annual
total solids figure falls to below 11.8
p.c., an additional Id. a gallon will be
deducted, making payment of 4d. less
than standard price. In Britain, about
20 p.c. of milk supplies fall into Class
A, 68 p.c. into Class B and 12 p.c.
into Class C.
One of the difficulties in swinging
from butterfat to solids-not-fat as a
basis for payment has been the absence
of a suitable means of testing, but Brit-
ish scientists have now patented an in-
strument that can do the job, measuring
fat, protein, lactose and solids-not-fat
on a substantial sample in less that a
minute.
Solids-not-fat has become the basis
for payment of wholemilk in several
other European countries, including
Holland and Denmark, and more are
expected to adopt it soon.
For nearly three years, Queensland
has been testing for solids-not-fat on a
pilot scale to develop a technique that
suits its conditions and to discover whe-
ther non-fat solids vary among breeds
of cattle. It has been shown that testing
for solids-not-fat can be fitted into the
present framework for herd recording
in that State, and the chief herd re-
cording adviser in Queensland, Mr S. E.
Pegg, said recently that farmers might
soon be thinking as much about solids-
not-fat as they were now about butter-
fat.
Victoria, Australia’s foremost dairy-
ing State, does not seem to have worked
up much enthusiasm for the new trend.
An officer of the Department of Agri-
culture has been detailed to look into
the matter.
If Victoria were to adopt solids-not-
fat as a test standard the move would
come from the Milk Board on the De-
partment of Agriculture’s recommenda-
tion. This does not seem imminent, for
the new standard has yet to endear it-
self to the department's superintendent
of dairying, Mr T. M. Jensen, who said
recently: “Fashions come and go. The
fashion at present is to question the
value of milk whose richness is based
on butterfat. There are no proposals in
Victoria to pay for milk on solids-not-
fat rather than butterfat. I have never
yet seen anyone come up with a con-
vincing argument for abandoning the
butterfat test. Butterfat is still the most
valuable constituent in milk.”
Meanwhile, in New South Wales Mr
Ferguson, the Board chairman, has said
a change in the system of milk pay-
ments would not necessarily involve an
increase in the retail price of milk
which rose last September when whole-
milk producers were granted an in-
crease.
“In essence,” he says, “it will mean
that the producer of low-quality milk
gets less than now, while the producer
of high-quality milk gets more.”
Harvesting Vegetables by
Machines
VTew machines to harvest vegetables
and new vegetable varieties which
can be harvested by machine are some
of the interesting developments in vege-
table production in the United States,
says Mr M. N. Kinsella, Victorian De-
partment of Agriculture vegetable re-
search officer, who recently spent 14
months on a study tour of the United
States, England and Holland.
Difficulties in obtaining suitable farm
labor, both in the United States and Eng-
land, are forcing growers to use an in-
creasing number of mechanical aids.


NEWINGTON COLLEGE, STANMORE
Advance Reservations:
• It is necessary to book years ahead for entrance into most
sections of the school. Advance bookings are therefore essential.
When vacancies occur applicants on waiting list will be
advised.
Casual Vacancies for 7964;
• At Newington's developing Preparatory School
AT KILLARA.
(boys enrolled from ages 5 to 12—day boys only)
• AT "Wyvern House", the Stanmore Preparatory School (in
Third and Fifth classes only).
• FOR Boarders —a few only.
APPLICATION should be made to the Headmaster,
OR at • Wyvern House (Newington College, Stanmore) and at
• Killara P reparatory School (Locksley Street, Killara)
to the Master-in-Charge.
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE
Vacancy for Visual Information Officer,
International Labour Office, Geneva
DUTIES: Assist in planning, production and distribution of visual information
material which includes films, booklets, posters, photographs, etc.
QUALIFICATIONS: University degree or equivalent professional experience and
at least five years' practical experience. Working knowledge of French.
Candidates must be Australian between 23 and 35 years of age.
SALARY: U.S. $6,130 - $9,870 according to qualifications and experience. Family
and education allowances payable and salary free of tax.
Applications to be made on special term obtainable from Higher Appointments Office,
Commonwealth Employment Service, in capital city of each State and to be returned to
these offices not later than the 13th January, 1964.
Egging on the I.W.S.
Bitter Attack on Sir William Gunn by USA journal
rpHE egg - throwing disturbance that
-*• marked Sir William Gunn’s appear-
ance at a meeting of woolgrowers at
Hamilton (Vic.) in the middle of last
year had echoes in the United States.
The “Textile Reporter”, a USA journal,
chuckling over the incident, carried an
undisguisedly anti-Gunn report in which
it said (incorrectly) that Sir William was
“driven off the podium ... by a
barrage of eggs and flour bags” when
he urged an increased levy for wool pro-
motion.
“It is an amazing story of another re-
volt by Australian woolgrowers against
the head of the International Wool Secre-
tariat and its various derivatives”, said
the “Textile Reporter.” “The victim, Sir
William, is the ambitious and complete
head of the IWS and the Australian Wool
Board. It is difficult to see how Sir
William can survive as a great world
authority and the spokesman for the
potent Australian woolgrowers after the
humiliation he suffered. And anyone who
knows the almost sacrosanct regard Sir
William has for himself will understand
what a humiliation it must have been.
“Sir William, during his reign, has been
almost omnipresent in the United States
as the final, almost infinite, authority on
wool, its future and how to insure it. He
has met with groups of American wool-
growers and with representatives of
American wool textile interests. He is
addicted to profound statements of pur-
poses, or at least what passes for pro-
fundity in the somewhat volcanic life
of the IWS.
“Under his direction, the international
control of the British Dominion wool
promotion agency has come completely
under the control of the Australians and
they have been under the domination of
Sir William, who is not only outsized in
person but in ambition. As his power has
increased, however, so has dissatisfaction
with the results of his operations.
“The one-time co-administrators of
the IWS from South Africa and New
Zealand have been displaced. The South
African administrator, Jan Moolman,
no retiring personality himself, has suf-
fered a double indignity. He was not
only deprived of his post in the IWS,
but South African woolgrowers, through
their Government, retired him to private
life because certain of his utterances
seemed to reveal a heresy in the Apar-
theid creed of the nation.
“He was succeeded, on a domestic
basis, by a former veterinarian. The
New Zealand representative was reduced
to being the representative in Europe of
the IWS under the direction of W. J.
Vines, chosen by Sir William as the
general manager of world operations of
the IWS . . . Mr Vines, who was chosen
from a long list of applicants who
answered rather pompous advertisements
in important world newspapers, was pre-
viously in paint.
“The shower of rotten eggs, bagged
flour and vegetables visited upon Sir
William by his enraged membership,
would seem to spell a crisis in his career,
and possibly his elimination as head of
the Australian wool promotion agencies.
As in the past, it may mean fundamental
changes in the present set-up on the Wool
Bureau in New York.
“The Bureau is now directed chiefly by
Philip Colangelo, whose past experience
in the wool textile industry was in the
accounting department of S. Stroock &
Co. Inc. There is no record of any past
experience in the promotion, the adver-
tising, or the selling of wool textiles.
His tenure succeeded a disturbed period
which culminated in a house-cleaning
by dismissal of a large number of em-
ployees under the direction of Reginald
Lund, the then New Zealand member
of the IWS. Lund made a historic effort
to become the director of the IWS in
response to the widely advertised appeal.
He did not, however, meet with the
approval of Sir William, and he was
obliged to accept a secondary role in
the organization.
“News from Australia indicates that
there will be another head of the IWS
before too long. It would seem impos-
sible for world wool interests to accept
the repository of Australia’s bad eggs
and surplus flour as a spokesman worthy
of any serious attention.
“There is, by the way, a convention to
be held in San Francisco where this sub-
ject will probably be widely discussed
and where a future programme for the
American interests will be argued.
Another example proving the fallacy of
subsidies.”


People are talking
about the new
BULLETIN
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
*N.Z. Subscription to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick \/ whichever is appropriate!
Is this a new subscription? |“| or
A renewal subscription? □
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
months subscription to THE BULLETIN.
*New Zealand readers may have their copies air
freighted (£4 4s. N.Z. for 52 issues, £2 12s. for
26 issues) or by surface mail (£3 7s. N.Z. for
52 issues £2 2s. for 26 Issues).
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? More
and more people are buying the "new look"
BULLETIN for its features, its overseas and local news,
its columnists like Boadicea, Discus, Cellarmaster, its
reviews of films, books, music and theatre. If you
want to keep abreast of news and significant events
in Australia and abroad THE BULLETIN is a must.
The
Bulletin
A magazine of facts and ideas est. 1880
ON SALE WEDNESDAYS —2/-
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 778
ACROSS
I—Whip graduates can fuss. (9)
6—“ Pop” number given by church equipment. (5)
9—Oyster faculty back in the ocean. (9)
10— Fix them and finish. (5)
11— Compounds beef before Caesar’s danger time. (6)
12— The telling kinsman. (8)
15— A barrel. (3)
16— Hence Peter may be said to be in the money. (10)
19—Mongrel swallowed some vessel office in the
church. (10)
22-—Republican rooking a little
bounder. (3)
24—80il spoilt the entrance to
put in some moral debt. (8)
26—Introduce to the clergy al-
ternative to an American
prosecutor before batting. (6)
28—Nothing to a relative caravan
stop in the original. (5)
30— Showplace is in its element.
(9)
31— America has no morning
heath. (5)
32 Figure seen about some hap-
pening. (9)
DOWN
1— What literary critics may do
with owls. (8)
2 Chief parliamentary debate?
(7, 4)
3 Most cuckoo eggs are found
so. (7)
4 A hundred after some beer
mug. (4)
5 Weight once seen about you.
(5)
6 Before and behind a church-
man. (7)
7 Tea that is an item of
mercery. (3)
8— Figure seen about publicity is
a girl. (6)
13— Motoring girl to redden. (11)
14— No longer held in the reef.
(4)
17—Sound from some of the
choir. (4)
18—What’s in a name? Business,
spirit and North! (8)
20— Thirty-one days on a capital
of Maine. (7)
21— Have reference to the saucy
one in the finish. (7)
23—A famous Tivoli comedian to
provoke the brighter-cricket
advocates, and so get the
bird! (6)
25—-A step taken in such things
as athletes run to. (5)
27—Valentine, Valmae and Valda
upset a European. (4)
29—Winter footwear. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 777


C 44
>r
-C3
is
«£*• *>• * iH'i Vi •
VUV
.
pmmi:
.'.■ } iV:-, > <UuS'l
. v*’M; &;','•<■ V.’ h ’>!f
■;,v;^vAr
4
UH::VfVi4v4? : '.|^
r..SC?Ap
•:' !>> ViiM*!; V'
t,p, '- V' i ' -
&■■■;&#
•.dL-
isssi
tirasw
■?v Uf'V
Wf ■
aitii
■ w
mßWvmi
m
Sim
m,
mm
im
,1;
m
m
®'( v
.rv-iV v]
!d« A
,wXvs
m
7 r?
is
Aili
t3{©
ii
; iasF
Mil
wa
Ms
|& ?
M
Titft
m
m
SI
-i
m im
ilpl
WM
fili
m
Sfti!
fci
'fAkiJj.
4vi ! ;‘4
tto : W’,\i
■yj i' J
>OtM
•ws
:
; r •. ): i ‘ : •» iA t <v. ‘&t A:• r . v‘.. *"
< ifl- ' '-I ; - 7 '
{■ <-i" <’»v> • I
UP!
It's just like going
up in a lift when you
use the SUNDAY
TELEGRAPH. Your
sales will go up with
our sales. And our
sales have been climb-
ing steadily for 20
years! The last six
months has seen an-
other 13,000 copies a
week added to the
sale of the SUNDAY
TELEGRAPH.
TO GIVE A SEPTEMBER, 1963, ABC FIGURE IN EXCESS OF
AND ITS STILL GOING UP!
Sunday Telegraph
TO GIVE YOUR SALES A LIFT IN NEW SOUTH WALES


Our best eye expert
isn’t even human
ft
r
Lucas automotive lamps for every purpose. 6 and 12 volts.
That instrument you see perched up on the front seat of a Lucas test car is one of our
employees —in a way. Without time for tea breaks, it puts in long hours, along winding
roads, answering '‘dazzling” questions for Lucas lighting engineers.
Lucas was the first auto electrical company to employ a cine camera for this purpose.
To get important data on dangerous dazzle. To make changes, if necessary, in the beams
thrown by future headlamps. To find beams best suited to our road conditions, Lucas
put that “eye specialist” up there to work for you. Take advantage of “his” findings at
your local Lucas agent. Lucas Electrical Equipment... distributed throughout Australia.
LUCAS
"If it’s automotive electrics it’s Lucas”
JOSEPH LUCAS (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
Victoria • New South Wales • Queensland
South Australia • Western Australia • Tasmania
LAI7-63
