

The Bulletin
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FIN^NcBpft'MES
THOSE /
BLESSED
TAXIS


OMALO
pink for girls
If she says "very nice" when offered wine she may merely be
being polite. If she says "gorgeous”, “delightful”, "heavenly”
chances are it’s Romalo Pink Champagne. A gay, scintillating
wine for joyous times . . . for parties, weddings and ever-so-special
dinners for two.
All over the World sophisticates celebrate with Pink Champagne.
Australia’s finest is Romalo
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors S WYNN & CO PTY. LTD. Distributors: Swift & Moore Pty. Ltd., Sydney & Brisbane.
Australian Wines Ltd., Adelaide.
Ferrall, O’Byrne Pty. Ltd., Launceston.
Importers Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
E. Benson & Co., Perth.


WELDER-ELECTRIC: I rou£ st -'Uss r
wages/ WUf, d expert Tr adesn,,
*nc«r bonus. P os /f, 0 nc<! /n *!?
«R:
first-c
Apply tq
r to %^o M n^ Ma 7 ,Kf<^
w»yj m S°»V.ag. ' *
' n J
Xtl'l'f/r!* - ron -f
tor 'XP'W 1
{WELDER Fitters for manufacture of |
Truck Bodies. Wages '
eluding overtime
Phone '
QjCy**B t ° oc f t r
>N e J. ae «« T tSe' r »y
k y^ELOtW
gfe.’ss*
Of"* .~~Tt£ia «2j,
SHEET IjJor
ELDER:
We require the services of
,Ist-class Welder. A 1 know-
• - a\V\edge of Prefabricates would be
<|J \V'^ o n'p advantage. Good wages and
conditions.
tesESaftfes* w[LDta;
ejret-class Trad?sman with 3B*
in wrought iron.
Who’s Answering?
The shortage of people is a serious, long-
range problem for Australia. Federal
migrant programmes will help . . . over
the years.
But for the heads of successful industrial
companies, the shortage of people is an
immediate problem. Help is needed now,
not a year from now.
If welding is an important part of your
manufacturing costs, Lincoln Electric has
help to offer: not more people, but more
productivity.
We are Australia’s largest producer of
welding equipment. For over a generation
we have been helping manufacturers get
more welding productivity. Sometimes the
results have been spectacular cutting
welding time by 90%, for example. Almost
every time a new customer calls on us,
there is some worthwhile improvement to
be made, if only a 5% or 6% increase in
productivity.
The man from Lincoln thinks productivity.
He knows electrodes and equipment, of
course, but he also knows advanced welding
techniques, and procedures that make weld-
ing easier and faster. When he is in your
shop he is working not for us hut for you.
Are you getting this sort of help—or only
welding supplies, as ordered? With labour
so short, you ought to have both.
THE LINCOLN ELECTRIC COMPANY
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • NEW ZEALAND
The Bulletin
VOLUME 86
NUMBER 4423
Established 1880
NOVEMBER 28
1964
Those Blessed Taxis
j From behind the wheel 24
Page
f AROUND MELBOURNE 44
| BUSINESS AND FINANCE .... 57
| CROSSWORD 82
i LETTERS 45
| MAN ON THE LAND 79
! NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 9
S OVERSEAS 33
PLAIN ENGLISH 13
SHORT STORY 41
SPECULATOR’S DIARY 78
TANNER 12
THIS AUSTRALIA 14
GENERAL
Why They All Resigned 14
Another Congo in New Guinea .. 17
The Light That Never Fails 27
Have You Any Problems? 28
The Skull Behind the Pirate 30
China’s Push Southwards 33
i Generation Out Of Touch 37
I REVIEWS
[ THEATRE: Go Tell It On The
I RECORDINGS: Richard Bur-
ton’s “Hamlet” 49
I TELEVISION: The Lively Arts:
• The Musical 50
BOOKS
: A Single Man by Christopher
| 1sherwood 53
, Chaos and Night by Henry de
| Montherlant 53
i The Place at Whitton by Thomas
Keneally 54
j FINANCE
Mr Bury and the Bankers 59
Queensland: State Put On The
Rack 60
Not Sitting On A Hotplate 62
Editorial Office: 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666, Ext. 330.


.<■-
AUTOMOTIVE
■g'v t<
iR
II
::
' - r ’ ' C "'vVI >
f . !■ V ' J
■ ■*' ' :’>:■
■
" "K, * V
■ •: ; :: x :: 4 : 4' : :
■Zgif
■ : ' ■■■•■■■■■■■>
, i ■
a®**!
' ' .
: M
a
».■!■., ,
««*“■**
.
wm
• ■:•
—V\.
mm
I _
mmmmM
.
'■ . ■ • ■
' . . : :■ J v : : y : ' ■ ' . ' / .' ■ • ■-,•■■; ,
-
•--•■ •■ • •' ' • ••-X • ■■• ;•• _
SI
How does ACL contribute to better and more economical motoring?
Automotive Components Limited manufacture original
equipment and replacement parts for automobiles in Aus-
tralia and other countries. The important part ACL plays
jn the automotive community is reflected in the extensive
research and development programme it maintains, assisted
by a constant flow of information from overseas sources.
In Australia, in co-operation with vehicle manufacturers,
ACL works constantly on the development of new com-
ponents that will help make tomorrow’s exciting cars possible.
ACL studies world-wide techniques to produce better, more
economical equipment for today’s cars. This continuing
development ensures that ACL will always maintain a pre-
dominant position in the Australian automobile industry.
When service is needed specify genuine ACL parts.
PERFECT CIRCLE PISTON RINGS
ACL BEARINGS, PISTONS AND ENGINE PARTS
LORIMIER ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
Available to the trade from leading wholesalers throughout Australia,
and Automotive Components (Services) Pty. Ltd., Queensland and
Victoria. Engine reconditioning facilities are also available in N.S.W.,
Victoria and Queensland. In addition, ACL parts are recommended
and fitted by a network of Doctors of Motors and Power Service Centres.
AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS LIMITED
87 Mitchell Street, Maidstone, Victoria. Phone 317 8981
Branches all capital cities and in many country centres.


r m
rew '• S. w:
“Pan Am’s World-Wide Marketing Service introduced
me to customers in Hong Kong and America... and orders
worth thousands to my new business l”
says Mrs. Enid Prendergast, Exporter , of Sydney
“When I started a new business last
year, exporting Australian giftware,
I needed all the help I could get.
Pan AnTs World-Wide Marketing
Service gave me that help by intro-
ducing me to potential customers
all around the world. These in-
troductions led to business worth
thousands of pounds from buyers in
Hong Kong and the U.S.”
Whether you import or export,
Pan' Am’s World-Wide Marketing
Service can help, you do business.
Marketing Specialists, in Sydney
and Melbourne Pan Am offices, can
suggest likely markets for your
goods; or, if you’re an importer,
recommend new sources of supply.
Let Pan Am’s World-Wide Mar-
keting Service and 900 Pan Am
offices throughout the world, make
business contacts for you. Call
Pan Am’s office in Sydney or
Melbourne for more details.
First on the Pacific . . .
First on the Atlantic . . .
First in Latin America . .
First ’Round the World
3H
You’re better off with Pan Am—
world’s most experienced airline
Sydney: Berger House, 22 Elizabeth St. 28-2252 • Melbourne: Southern Cross Hotel, 133 Exhibition St. 63-9077
PA4438


* ; T
.
&
HiS
now!!!!!!
maximum
right at
your
fingertips
WITH
Q^o/uihemcC
SPECIAL
KEYING
SYSTEMS
IP MK-A
i *~r r
| ___ HgM
At. A 7.
A 3.
1
A 5.
' A 3.
MASTER-KEYED SYSTEMS
A Master-Keyed System is one in which each
.lock has its own individual key, which oper-
ates that lock only and no other, but where
each lock is also built to a Master-Key which
will open all locks in the group.
Within a Master-Keyed System, if required,
certain locks may be grouped in a section
Keyed-Alike to a given Service-Key, and still
subject to. the Master-Key.
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which
operates that lock only and no other, but the
locks are divided into two or more groups.
Each group is subject to its own Master-Keyj
which opens all locks in that group, but no
other group.
However, all locks are also subject to a
Grand Master-Key which opens all locks in
all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike
groups may also be included in G.M.K. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM YOU
NEED CARRY ONLY ONE KEY
INSTEAD OF HUNDREDS!
REPLACING INSECURITY
AND CONFUSION WITH
MAXIMUM SECURITY.
MAXIMUM CONVENIENCE!
In industry and commerce today a Lockwood MK System is an essential pre-
requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, Is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade and
Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part of the
building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are held
on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries —enabling quick
replacement of lost keys or damaged locks ‘'true to code”, and allowing absolute
control of additions ,or extensions to the systems.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss Master'**
Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty. Limited
at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention. manufactured in Australia by
LOCK
WITH
UP
t&p/tw&oeC
N.Z. Agent: G. D. LITTLE LTD.,
Wellington and Auckland.
New Guinea Agent: CARL F. RADKE
AGENCIES, Port Moresby.
Ogden Industries
PTY. LIMITED
Melbourne: 569 0611 • Sydney:
56 3191, 56 3114, 56 3166, 56 3186
Brisbane: 7 3047 • Canberra:
4 4098 • Adelaide: 8 2153
Perth: 23 2214 • Hobart: 3 3141
Launceston: 2 1441
Agents alio in Kenya, Uganda, Tanganyika, South Africa, The Rhodesias, Malaysia, The Philippines, Hong Kong,
Thailand, Indonesia.


mm
/< ■■
m
; a
•fet *“,»
m
«
rW j
* «
t.
**. s »
1, • ■
:■ i . : a.<:;.
m
■
* t.
.. * ■ *
‘~T” r Fvd
ii
JfiL" f
' ■■' 8g
i»r >
I i
a m
PR645901
M ms:
mt\ #\ mS WN §m\ M
Hi i-W \ v'» \ * r'wi i
* ?
.
PAPER FOR
PROGRESS
No. 1 of a series
All over the world the paper Industry is a progress industry and In Australia A.P.M.—Australian Paper
Manufacturers Ltd.—is right up with world leaders in introducing new manufacturing techniques. □ The
modern Inverform board-forming equipment and board-coating plant installed at A.P.M’s Petrie Mill
near Brisbane are examples of the company’s progressive policy and continuing vigorous drive to develop
new top-quality grades of papers and paperboards for modern packaging. □ The Inverform techniqu®
introduced to Australia at Petrie is also being incorporated in the new mill A.P.M. is building at Spearwood,
near Fremantle in Western Australia and on a new high-speed board machine in Victoria. □ Every pound
spent on an A.P.M. product is an investment In Australia’s industrial progress.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS LTD.
OWNED BY AUSTRALIANS. Head Office: South Gate,
South Melbourne. Sales Offices in all State Capitals.


This wheat hopper wagon weighs 7 tons less than
conventional models. It carries 14% greater payload
It’s another achievement in Australuco Aluminium
iii ;
f t
■■ ■
v;
ft
This wagon is a graphic, practical
example of what aluminium bodies
can do for rolling stock; it can in-
crease the efficiency of any goods or
passenger operation!
In the case of this wagon and others
like it, being built by A. E. Goodwin
Ltd. for the New South Wales Govern-
ment Railways, the use of Australuco
aluminium cut the tare weight by one-
third! Hence, a greater load can be
carried. And, there is ample strength
in aluminium to take that extra load.
Of course, there’s more to achieve-
ment than aluminium alone. Achieve-
ment also means Australuco’s years of
experience in research, testing, design,
metallurgical improvements . . . years
of practical application which can be
summed up in two words: know-how.
So, when you add technical skill and
expertise to aluminium’s inherent
qualities (no rust or rot, no mainten-
ance, no painting, corrosion resist-
ance), achievement and performance
are the natural results.
Australuco’s engineers and techni-
cians, backed by the world-wide
experience and knowledge of the
Alcan Group, are able to supply the
latest information about the many
applications of aluminium in all phases
of Australian industry.
ALU hUIUJIUJK/l
Australian Aluminium Company Limited. A member of the Alcan Group.
A participant in the Queensland Alumina Project.
Sydney 637-0133; Melbourne 94-0557; Brisbane 2-7483; Adelaide 51-1516; Perth 23-0211; Hobart 2-2771
AA3IIB


National Notebook
j Swann Song
TTisitors usually get asked their im-
i " pression of Australia at the airport,
and from that point on nobody asks and
nobody cares. With this in mind we
Approached English comedy-duo Flanders
and Swann in their dressing-room at
Sydney’s Theatre Royal now, when
they’re in the last stages of their three
months’ tour.
Both were agreed that their biggest
impression was of the differences they
found in the different States. “Of course,
we visited only the capital cities and this
might not be valid for the rest of the
State,” Michael Flanders said, while
Donald Swann, the piano-playing half
of the team, nodded vigorously: “They
are different, you know. In Melbourne
they’re all wrapped up in Bolte and foot-
ball. The newspapers in each State
seem to attach much more importance to
local affairs than they do to international
news—or even national events, for that
matter.”
I “When we mention de Gaulle it gets
(very little reaction,” Flanders said sadly,
“and this with him about to explode an
atom bomb, virtually on your doorstep.
I wonder whether it’s good to cut your-
selves up in hunks like this and become
preoccupied with local affairs? After all,
everywhere else frontiers seem to be
going down. Here your very relations
with your Federal head of government
seem to be tenuous.”
Here Donald Swann intervened and
claimed he could detect the different
accents of people from different States.
Flanders growled disbelief at this. They
have incorporated local references into
their show, but these are marginal.
“We tried to write down our impres-
sions of Australia for you,” Flanders
said, and handed us a piece of paper
which read:
WHAT WE HAVE LEARNT
ABOUT AUSTRALIA
The climate in Brisbane
Is rather like Lisbon.
The city of Adelaide
Is flat as a paddle-blade.
The people of Melbourne
Are terribly well-born.
The people in Sydney
Say “Did ’e or didn’e?”
(We hear that in Perth
They’re the salt of the earth.)
We then asked Swann why he didn’t
do any of the talking in the show. “I
suppose it’s just grown up that way,
really,” he said. “Michael has an
enormous gift for a sort of on-stage
journalism. It’s a sort of artificial
spontaneity. He gets very quick ideas,
he’s drinking in all the time. When I
talk I’m a more serious sort of chap. I
haven’t any witty remarks, really. I
like to speculate.”
One of the objects of his speculation
is pacifism, to which he has been com-
mitted for years. He was a con-
scientious objector during World War II
and worked in a Quaker ambulance unit,
though he has always been an Anglican.
“I’ve seen things for a long time more
or less from the Christian pacifist view-
point,” he said, “but occasionally I've
got nearer the political side of pacifism.
There’s a little political party in England
called the Fellowship Party. There are
about 200 members. It has a sort of
Independent-Labor approach. For some
time I was the president of it. As a
matter of fact,” he went on, in a tone
of surprised recollection, “I still am the
president. But I’m beginning to rethink
all that. I feel it might be wiser for
pacifists to do what they’ve often done
before, and stay on the fringes of the
Labor Party proper. It’s a two-party
system, you can’t get away from it; and
it may be that one’s ideas should not be
fragmented, that one should say, ‘Well,
I will be a certain kind of Labor person.’
“I think pacifism is growing in
England,” he added, speaking more and
more quietly. “There’s a universal dis-
gust with violence. It’s just the little
extra act of heroism one needs to allow
oneself to be voluntarily disarmed and
to say: ‘I won’t let my conscience be
outraged by this weapon you want me to
throw at you; I won’t stand for it’.” He
was silent. “Well,” he said, “I’m glad
“Just how non-conformist is this
church?"
to have talked to you about that for a
bit.”
We asked Swann about the gay, rather
Hat-like music he has composed for the
Anglican service. He brightened.
“Church music is becoming exciting to-
day,” he said. “The problem is how to
bridge the gaps in society. There’s the
pop man’s music, and what does he do
when he goes to church and hears their
anthems? The tendency is to want
things simpler, so the congregation can
participate more. A lot of people, even
bishops, have asked me, quite seriously,
why I don’t write a sort of Hippopota-
mus Song merged with the Mass. It’s
under that influence that I’ve just finished
a book of carols, two or three of which
are very light. Nigel Butterley has
asked me to do a programme of them on
television for the ABC at Christmas.
I’m looking forward to it.”
Swann described “At the Drop of a
Hat” and “At the Drop of Another Hat”
as “a sort of autobiography of two
people’s feelings”. “We’ve experienced
all these things,” he said, and then
laughed. “Of course that doesn’t apply
to the ‘Madeira M’Dear’ song!” We
asked if Flanders and he contemplated
a third show. “Well,” he said, “we’ve
thought of a title for one ‘The Hat
Trick’. It would really have to be a hat
trick, wouldn’t it? But it’s a long way
off, we work terribly slowly at these
songs and things—you’ve no idea. They
grow up like coral.”
Steam-whistle
went, we confess, to Kathryn
* ~ Grayson’s show at Sydney’s
Chequers Nightclub expecting to see a
human marshmallow giving voice to the
sort of arias that aunties tend to sing at
Hollywood movie weddings. We were
surprised, and pleased, to find Miss
Grayson in excellent, no-nonsense form,
singing “Jealousy” in green with a firm
voice far removed from the trembling
thing we’d heard issue from her lips in
old MGM musicals.
She looked gratified when we told her
we’d noticed the change. “Why did I
sound like that? Well, I’ll tell you. The
man in charge of recording the film
sound tracks at Metro was deaf!” Our
attention engaged, we asked her to go on.
“His name was Douglas Shearer, and he
was Norma Shearer’s brother.” A look
flashed from Miss Grayson's pretty eyes
which seemed to suggest, just quietly,
that he could have got his job because
Miss Shearer happened to be the studio’s
top star, and the wife of its chief, Irving


tpf&ii l *'
i
He
I'
m
,«<•
hy
!*■
•V«i
f Wi5!SS5w: »
*'mm:
63
I. ? •'•'»-'-#-«.»£ivi
&h\\j
v I --s i sr>
ft®
*
4“t
"I—4
**%
»
yy
Q
JOURNEY
FOR JESSIE
Long memories they might have, but
elephants are also particular when it comes to
travel especially old troupers like Jessie
Australia’s most travelled elephant.
Jessie’s a confirmed train tripper, and has
been for years.
Only the railways would take the trouble to
build Jessie a special wagon. For that matter,
only the railways have the capacity to mpve
a whole circus at a single lift.
The Railways of Australia have over 97,000
wagons to move any type of freight liquids
or solids, small packages or out-of-gauge con-
signments— and at rates no other form of
land-based transport can match. For safety,
speed and economy, consign by rail.
RAILWAYS of AUSTRALIA
Inserted by authority of the Commissioners of the Commonwealth and State Railway Systems of Australia.
ROA.569.FP


jThalberg. “Yes, deaf. He could take an
: SO-piece orchestra and make it sound like
hand organ. When I was fortissimo
he’d turn the sound up and when I was
'pianissimo he’d turn it down. My voice
came out like a steam-whistle would
be the way I’d describe it.”
The steam-whistle had got going in
Andy Hardy pictures, then “Thousands
Cheer” “Anchors Aweigh” and “Ziegfeld
Follies”, among other celluloid meringues
of that vintage. Was Louis B. Mayer, her
mentor, the ogre we’d been led to be-
lieve? “No, no. He was Papa Mayer to
all of us. We’d all be part of his family.
In the morning I’d go to the MGM
schoolhouse with Anne Baxter, Jane
1 Powell and Virginia Weidler. After lunch
I’d take dramatic lessons, ballet lessons,
piano lessons. Mickey Rooney looked
after all us brats like a mother hen.”
Joe Pasternak, discoverer of Deanna
Durbin, should, she said, have got the
; blame that attached to Mayer. “He had
an obsession. He wanted to make every-
body who worked for him terribly thin.
He started in on Judy, and that began
all her troubles. Why? His wife was
terribly thin. 1 guess he wanted everybody
(else to be like her, though I always
(suspected he’d made her terribly thin,
too.”
Miss Grayson was annoyed that
Pasternak had claimed credit for intro-
ducing Mario Lanza to the screen. “In
fact, Mr Pasternak turned Mario down
cold. I did the first test of Mario’s
career with Mario. He wore a white
1 apron for the scene. Now you know,
.white makes anybody look fat. I told
Mr Pasternak, ‘lf you were thin you’d
look fat in a white apron.’ So you know
what they did? They put a grey apron on
him.” And scowling charmingly at the
memory, Miss Grayson and her con-
certed steam-whistle left for the stage.
L
Foundations
A few days ago we got down to foun-
-1 dations with Mrs Ida Rosenthal,
head of the American firm of Maiden-
form, who has been making her first visit
, to Australia. Millions of people, whose
' interest in Mrs Rosenthal’s product is
only academic, know the firm’s slogan,
the most recent version of which was, of
course, “I dreamed I won an election
in my Maidenform bra”.
Mrs Rosenthal, at 78 and with no
thought of retiring, is very much in the
hard-working, long-lasting tradition of
such other American businesswomen as
Helena Rubinstein and Elizabeth Arden.
She has no formula for keeping going
and no theory about why American
businesswomen can work into late life
when their male colleagues drop dead at
their desks at forty. “But business is
still only a means to an end,” she said.
“I work because that way I can meet
people and travel.”
Statistically, Mrs Rosenthal estimates
week, one in five American women are
wearing one of her firm’s brassieres.
Annual sales in the United States are
40,000,000 with 15,000,000 more sold
overseas.
Mrs Rosenthal claims that she in-
vented the modern brassiere in the
’twenties. “Like all inventions it was a
necessity,” she said. She said that today
the brassiere was structurally perfect,
that is, her firm’s engineers claim that
it will do the job it is planned to do.
The only modifications are trimmings
with perhaps some slight changes to suit
fashion, such as lower necklines. And
when Mrs Rosenthal talks about en-
gineers she means engineers. Three of her
designing staff have engineering degrees.
“There are 18 operations in the making
of each garment,” she said. “I wouldn’t
say it was precision engineering in the
sense of perhaps watchmaking, but there
are virtually the same number of stitches
in each garment.”
Mrs Rosenthal said that she spends
about a third of her time travelling.
“But all cities are getting so much alike,”
she commented. She looked around her
Menzies suite. “You could put this
hotel down anywhere in the world, but
in Melbourne we stayed at Menzies,
which is full of character and charm.”
Of course, almost as she spoke, an
announcement was being made that
Menzies is eventually to be replaced with
a modern office block.
Rising High
Ttalian engineer, the Marchese Franco
Bianchi di Castelbianco, was in
Sydney last week to have his first look
at television towers he designed in his
Milan office some 10,000 miles away.
The Marchese, who prefers to be called
doctor, is the General Director of the
world-wide Italian company Societa
Anonima Elettrificazione, which has
more than 20,000 employees scattered
throughout the world.
The world’s foremost designer of
electric transmission and television
towers, he is responsible for thousands
of transmission line towers criss-cross-
ing the Australian countryside, and for
most of the country’s television towers.
The latest, for TCN Channel 9, is a
765 ft high tower, the third largest self-
supporting steel structure in the world.
At a gathering of engineers and tech-
nicians at Sydney’s Menzies Hotel last
week, Dr Bianchi said that much of the
groundwork of today’s engineers has
been taken over by electronic com-
puters. However, electronic computers
cannot account for the wide variations
in the weather conditions and stresses
steel towers have to withstand, or the
tremendous differences in the subsoils in
which foundations are laid. “These are
the tests of the capable engineer-
designer,” he said.
Cover
/~\ur cover picture by Robert Mc-
Farlane shows Sydney taxi drivers
having their cars blessed after their
annual Guild Mass at St Mary’s.
COLONIAL ARTISTS
ffij^ulCetCn
80 Years Ago: December 6, 1884
IVfR E. Montefiore writes as trustee
of the Art Gallery, suggesting in
connection with The Bulletin’s cri-
ticism of the policy of getting
colored magazine supplements execu-
ted in England in lieu of in Australia,
that it should be mentioned that Mr
J. R. Fairfax, one of the proprietors
of the “Sydney Mail”, has presented at
different times to the Art Gallery a
plaster cast of Canova’s “Boxers”, a
collection of silver medals coined at
the national Bavarian collection, and
a reproduction of some of the cele-
brated Bayeux tapestry. These dona-
tions are, doubtless, of some sort of
value in the way of helping in-
finitesimally in cultivating the artistic
sense of those who visit the gallery;
but if colonial artists are denied the
substantial encouragement of com-
missions to draw for the colonial
illustrated papers, when a more im-
portant work than ordinary is re-
quired, and are not given the oppor-
tunity of making so useful an addition
to their income, the casts and medals
might well be kept in England for the
benefit of the artists who are applied
to when there is unusually remuner-
ative work to be done. Colonial
artists have to live, like other men,
and no matter what the native talent
of the colonial youth, he will take to
bricklaying sooner than to art if he
have assurance of a steady employ-
ment at the former, and the prospect
of having all the more important and
remunerative jobs in the latter denied
to him. Does Mr Montefiore imagine
that a race of Australian artists can
be brought into existence to sustain
life and support a family by smelling
at Mr Fairfax’s medals, in the style
of Oscar Wilde having lunch by con-
templating a lily in a glass of water.


Tanner
"Are you sure they know it's just a Senate election stunt?"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Telling Mr Calwell the Date
“TV) me,” said Arthur Calwell,
“geography does not matter. To
me it does not matter where a man
goes after he leaves Australian terri-
tory on compulsory military service.
Whether the compulsion is for the
South-West Pacific or for Europe, it
is still military conscription for over-
seas service, and therefore abhorrent.”
Arthur Calwell was speaking in the
Federal Parliament. The date was
December, 1942. The Japanese were
on Australian territory and had
bombed Australian towns. But Mr
Calwell, himself the staunchest of
patriots, was sincerely expounding the
utopian isolationism he had picked up
in the conscription fights of 1916 and
1917. Today, in the 1964 Senate elec-
tion, he is still expounding it with the
same sincerity, the same indifference
Jto geography and the same blindness
!to the threats to our security that
he had shown in 1942. Only one thing
has changed: Mr Calwell now leads
the Australian Labor Party and there
is unfortunately no John Curtin to
tell him this is not 1916.
There are no great subtleties about
I Australia’s basic defence problems
'which make national service essential.
They result from the geography which
Mr Calwell said does not matter, from
the weakness of our Asian allies, and
from the uncertainty of our European
allies. Britain’s new Government is
even less likely than the H me Gov-
ernment to continue an unpopular war
tin Malaysia—a war of so little interest
to British people that it is mentioned
infrequently in its newspapers; and
America is under constant pressure to
withdraw from a costly losing war in
South Vietnam. The United States
1 can defend itself from Okinawa;
does not need Malaysia. But
without them and with'the defences
we have had since World War 11, our
position would be almost hopeless.
After years of goading, the Federal
Government has finally recognised that
Britain and America will not defend
us indefinitely unless we are prepared
to help them defend us. After years
of criticism it has finally launched the
most dramatic defence programme in
our “peace-time” history. It even
admits it is still inadequate, but it is
,the beginning of a long-term expan-
sion. As the leader of the alternative
Government, what, then, does Mr Cal-
well offer? In his Brisbane policy
speech he presented some sound
criticism of the shortcomings of the
programme, some nostalgic appeals to
the anti-conscription slogans of 50 years
ago, and no alternative whatsoever.
“We insist,” he said, “on this nation
having adequate defences,” and then
quickly changed the subject to talk
about economic growth. The DLP,
which delivered a barrage of criticism
of the defence programme, at least
had an alternative to offer—an Asian
military alliance against Communist
China and an Australian nuclear deter-
rent. But Mr Calwell offered nothing.
What percentage of the gross
national product would he spend on
defence? Dr Cairns says there should
be no increase. What would Mr
Calwell do to help our allies in
Malaysia and South Vietnam? The
Left wing scorns them. Is this ALP
policy? How would he build up
the size of the armed services? He
spoke of the “malignant activities of
international Communism”, but what
would he do about its ALP allies who
support “Peace” fronts, who endorse
Unity Tickets, who support “goodwill”
visits to “malignant Communist” coun-
tries like North Vietnam, the way the
Queensland ALP supports the visit
to Hanoi of Mr A. Macdonald of the
Brisbane Trades and Labor Council?
In the end, Mr Calwell has nothing to
recommend except opposition to con-
scription.
No one can vote enthusiastically for
the Federal Government’s defence
record, but a national vote in the
Senate election against the first begin-
nings of a realistic defence policy
would clearly amount to telling the
allies, on whom we must depend, they
are, in Mr Calwell’s words, trifling
with the lives of their sons. For this
reason the Senate election has un-
expectedly become one of the gravest
importance.
The Silence of Mr C. E. Barnes
IW'ine months ago the Currie Com-
mission handed in its Report on
the possibilities of higher education in
Australia’s Melanesian colonies one
of the most comprehensive of Reports
of this kind ever prepared. Since then
the new Minister for Territories, Mr
C. E. Barnes, has found time to make
a policy decision about horses in New
Guinea but has maintained a tight-
lipped silence about training of New
Guinea’s future rulers. Taken with the
cuts in the salaries of native public ser-
vants, one is entitled to ask if the
Federal Government has quietly decid-
ed to scuttle from New Guinea as soon
as possible and meanwhile to spend as
little as possible of the Australian tax-
payers’ money on the place.
There will be many who agree that
this would be a realistic policy. Eco-
nomically we get nothing of importance
from New Guinea and may only be
building up primary industries there to
compete with our own. As for de-
fence, we may well be better off avoid-
ing border wars with Indonesia and
spending defence moneys elsewhere,
either at home or further north. In
fact there is little reason at all to stay
in New Guinea little reason except,
as Mr Wootten has said, humanity.
(See story, page 17.)
Australians, developing our own
continent, have never presented a very
altruistic face to the world, and New
Guinea may well, in the eyes of the
world and ourselves, be the test of
whether we feel any obligations at all
to the people beyond our own borders.
Developing that useless country will
cost us money and will return us
nothing except the pleasure of having
done a good job for a small, backward
people that look to us for help.
Before we finally withdraw from
New Guinea we owe it to ourselves to
leave behind a system worthy of what
we claim are our ideals. For that rea-
son alone, it is to be hoped that
Mr Barnes can revive some of the Has-
luck sense of urgency and purpose, and
that in the history books he will not
give his name to an ignominious scut-
tle. For a start he could at least
launch the higher education pro-
gramme urged in the Currie Report.


THIS AUSTRALIA
Why They All Resigned
What is wrong with the Victorian Symphony Orchestra?
MELBOURNE At one of the last
concerts of the celebrity season of the
Victorian Symphony Orchestra this year
the audience was treated to an unusual
experience. For some three minutes
before the conductor came to the
podium, they heard what seemed to be a
new composition. The knowing ones nod-
ded to one another, “a Schoenberg piece
a Nielsen overture”. In fact the
sounds were not those of a modernist
composition but those of the orchestra
tuning up.
This was a rare experience not only
for the audience but for the orchestra
as well. Instead of the general caco-
phony that is usually associated with an
orchestra tuning up together, separate
sections of the orchestra were tuning in
turn. This was what the concert-
master, Maurice Clare, had been trying
to get the orchestra to do for two and
a half years without success. As a
special favor to him after he had an-
nounced he was resigning the orchestra
agreed to do it “Clare’s way”.
It was an ironically appropriate finale
to a concert season which the orchestra
had begun with the resignation of its
principal oboeist, Jiri Tancibudek, its
principal bassoonist, Thomas Wightman,
and its principal clarinetist, Gabor
Reeves and which it ended with the
resignation of its concert-master, Maurice
Clare, and the permanent departure of its
conductor, Georges Tzipine.
By any standard of musical judgment
this kind of autumnal shedding of prin-
cipals like so many leaves must leave
the musical tree of the orchestra some-
what barren. What is not generally
known is that the tree is soon to shed
some more leaves and the orchestra will
move closer to that winter of discontent
which many of its friends and supporters
fear. In short this year’s spate of resig-
nations has not come to an end.
Diagnosing the malaise of the orches-
tra is not an easy task. Critics and
defenders alike all have vested interests.
There are artistic reputations to main-
tain, confidences to be upheld, and an
area of speculation and gossip in which it
is difficult to avoid the feeling that you
have stepped into the middle of a
Kafkaesque novel about bureaucracy run
rampant, anonymously and uncontrol-
lably. There is not even agreement that
there is anything seriously wrong with
the orchestra. The manager of the ABC,
Mr E. A. Whitely is usually bland. He
sometimes goes further and denies any
major difficulties as in a quoted remark
which appeared in a recent newspaper
article: “No doubt individual musicians
have their problems and differences, but
these appear to be similar to those which
occur in most symphony orchestras in
the world, but are probably fewer here.
It is unfortunate that speculation, gossip
and rumor are so often mistaken and at
times published as fact.”
Mr Whitely is widely regarded as an
excellent administrator. Yet he is the
first to admit that he knows little about
music or orchestras. He seems to re-
gard the members of the orchestra as he
does other staff members at the ABC
trying always to maintain good “indus-
trial relations” and appealing to the
musicians to be “good chaps”. The
management and the union seem to be on
the same wavelength in this- —both feel-'
ing that rocking the boat in any way is
a threat to the fine balance between labor
and management. Perhaps there is a
problem here that cannot be avoided if
an organisation like the ABC is to run
the country's major orchestras. What-
ever one’s assessment of how serious the
difficulties are it seems impossible to
deny that they at least exist.
"A little wolf-pack that wants to dictate
to the ABC how to run the orchestra."
—ADRIAN BENDALL,
Union Secretary, VSO.
There are two kinds of problems
facing the orchestra. One arises from
the way it is administered, the cultural
atmosphere in which decisions about its
activities are made, and the relationship
it has with the Australian Broadcasting
Commission. This is the external in-
fluence. Then there is the problem which
arises from within the orchestra itself,
the role of the Musicians’ Union, the
attitudes of musicians to their work, to
the conductor, and to the whole question
of change and internal reorganisation.
The first three resignations this year
of the woodwind principals illustrate
the latter kind of internal problem. All
three players left because they felt the
pattern of work in the orchestra offended
their own artistic standards, and because
GEORGES TZIPINE
they were sick of playing at a large
number of extra concerts for outside
organisations, such as the National Thea-
tre Musical Comedy season and broad-
casting recitals, work which they con-
sidered routine and unnecessary. All
accepted positions in Adelaide after the
ABC had known for some time of their
dissatisfaction but had done little to per-
suade them to stay.
In the case of Gabor Reeves, the
clarinetist, there was an added problem
of a hostile union. After Mr Reeves
had come out from Britain at his own
expense to join the orchestra he found
that the Musicians’ Union would not
accept him as a member. In a letter to
the “Age” earlier this year the orchestra’s
union secretary, Mr Adrian Bendall,
boasted proudly that Mr Reeves was “an
Australian musician with an international
reputation”. He neglected to add that
it took the threat of court action costing
Mr Reeves £ll5 in legal fees to make
him a member of the union.
Mr Reeves was in fact not a native-
born Australian and the openly ex-
pressed attitude of the Musicians’ Union
was to oppose the employment of foreign-
born musicians. The problem was and
is that no recognised overseas or inde-
pendent musical observer has yet agreed
that all the principal orchestral jobs in
Australia can be filled by local musicians
of sufficient calibre. Mr Reeves was
finally admitted but he was hardly made
to feel welcome.
An examination of the cases of the
former conductor, Georges Tzipine, and
the concert-master, Maurice Clare, may
show how some of the internal difficulties
of the orchestra are related to the
external administration and organisation.
When M. Georges Tzipine joined the
orchestra nearly five years ago he was
the fifth resident conductor it had had in
ten years. Visiting conductors had re-


marked on the weaknesses ox the orcnes-
tra because it had lacked the continuity
of a permanent musical director. Pre-
ceding him had been Galliera for two
years, Castro for two years, Susskind for
two years, Woess for three years.
Tzipine’s stay with the orchestra falls
into three phases. First there was the
phase of courtship, affair and honey-
moon as Tzipine promised the orchestra
that there would not be any changes,
that things were just fine, and that even
greater and better things lay ahead. So
pleased was the orchestra that Tzipine
was presented with a television set as a
mark of affection. But the honeymoon
was soon over and the orchestra found
that Tzipine was planning changes—for
them, drastic changes. He wanted to
replace Bertha Jorgensen who had led the
orchestra for eleven years with Maurice
Clare, a former leader of the Boyd Neel
Orchestra. Furthermore he wanted to
change the “club seats” around. Up to
that time seating in the VSO had been
very much along lines of seniority in the
best Public Service style. Now Tzipine
wanted to arrange things orchestrally.
It was Tzipine’s first big head-on clash
with the strong and entrenched union.
He won a Pyrrhic victory. He got
Maurice Clare and he rearranged the
chairs of the orchestra but he also found
himself with a less than fully co-opera-
tive orchestra thereafter.
That was in 1962. This phase lasted
until the opening of this year's season
when Tzipine returned from overseas
full of praise for the orchestra, pro-
mising an overseas tour of the United
States. What Tzipine was trying to do
at this stage was get some allies in his
fight to renew his contract with the ABC.
From his point of view the VSO was a
very good job. It gave him £B7OO for
six months and he was able to pick up
at least another £5OOO when he went
overseas each year. Tzipine wanted to
stay. Even though there was some re-
turn of his new-found affection for the
orchestra, the wheels had been set in
motion. The ABC had decided that
Tzipine was not the man for the job and
so “his contract was not renewed”.
Tzipine had made his path difficult in
other ways. It is no secret that he did
not get on with the orchestra’s associate
conductor, Dr Clive Douglas, and asked
the ABC for a replacement. The major-
ity of the orchestra, however, did like
Dr Douglas, particularly for his easy
going manner, which was a contrast to
the gallic emotionalism of Tzipine. They
did not take kindly to the thought of
losing him.
At the airport before he left Tzipine
clutched a toy koala bear and said that
the ABC had been wonderful to him.
Any reports of dissatisfaction were
“lies, joost lies”.
The point is that the ABC is the
world's largest concert organisation. It
has vital contacts with many orchestras
and concert organisations abroad. The
point, it seems, was not lost on Tzipine.
At last report he had not succeeded in
getting the job of conductor of the East-
mann Rochester Orchestra in the United
States for which he had been negotiating.
If it was true that to some extent Tzi-
pine was himself responsible for losing his
job by his changing approach of “I love
you,” “I love you not,” it was also
true that any conductor would have
found it very hard to tackle Mr Bendall
and the union. Still deep in the experi-
ence of many of the orchestra’s musicians
is the immediate post-war era of hardship
when professional musicians faced diffi-
cult conditions. Today the minimum
wage for a player is £36 a week. Most
earn more than this figure. And today
musicians can share in the community's
general affluence. Visiting musicians are
surprised at how much talk they hear
about power-boats, holiday-homes, and
the superannuation fund within the or-
chestra and how little they hear about
the making of music.
Most of the orchestra feel that they
have Mr Bendall to thank for this. As
one of them put it. “We would all be on
the bread line if it hadn't been for
Adrian.”
What few of the musicians will admit
is the criticism levelled by some that the
union has now become a reactionary
force within the orchestra resisting
change, suspicious of the new, and firmly
committed to the status quo. This means
that any changes, organisationally or
musically, are immediately suspect. Any
criticism is immediatey interpreted as
coming, in Mr BendalFs words, from a
“little wolf pack that wants to dictate
to the ABC how to run the orchestra.”
This “wolf pack” presumably includes
composers like Margaret Sutherland who
has written: “It becomes increasingly
clear that trade unionism, so necessary
and admirable in itself, can eventually
become if not frequently reassessed and
readjusted to developing conditions (and
as in the case of the professional musi-
cian, aesthetic values) the Frankenstein
monster which disrupts—in other words,
devours the very people it is supposed
to be protecting.”
Resented from the start
FPhe case of Maurice Clare seem to be
an example of the union resisting
change, the “musical establishment” of
the orchestra’s administration unwilling to
allow one “prima donna” to get too much
credit, and generally the threat to the
status quo. Maurice Clare resigned be-
cause, in his words, he could not achieve
his artistic ideals with the orchestra.
More than that he said publicly that he
had had bitter experiences with the or-
chestra and the ABC.
Clare was resented from the start
first because he replaced Bertha Jorgen-
sen, herself a close friend of Mr Bendall,
and second because he said that he plan-
ned to concentrate on the string section
of the orchestra and bring it up to stand-
ard. But this of course implied that it was
below standard and that he disagreed
with the union's opinion that the orch-
estra provided a concert season “as good
as, if not better than, is provided for any
other major city in the world.” (So wrote
Mr Bendall.)
In spite of the resistance, some pro-
gress was made and Maurice Clare’s main
project, the establishment of a string or-
chestra, got away to critical and public
applause in 1963. The establishment of
the string orchestra was part of Clare’s
MAURICE CLARE
CLIVE DOUGLAS
BERTHA JORGENSEN
ALCEO GALLIERA


m
ANSETT-ANA 727 FAN-JETS CUT AUSTRALIA DOWN IN SIZE
fe *
■*P%
•
: I.:;;
|T“ W -
S
ei:
/jMI
and bring you a new world of comfort
Cruising serenely above the weather at well over 600
miles an hour, Ansett-ANA 727 Fan-Jets cut existing
flight times between capital cities by about 25%.
The secret? Fan-Jets! The most advanced version yet of
the jet engine. Fan-Jets are more powerful than ordinary
jet engines. They have many pounds more thrust. They
take off in Vs less runway. Climb 30% faster. And all
three powerful Fan-Jet engines in the Ansett-ANA 727
Fan-Jets are mounted in the rear to leave noise behind.
So quiet.
Your reward? You’re up to higher, smoother cruising
altitudes faster and quieter. Nice to remember next time
you have to be some place in a hurry, isn’t it?
/ifWfc I a nsara system of the golden jets
THE COMPLETE FAN-JET/PROP-JET SERVICE
A MEMBER COMPANY OF ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
*odha"*^
tx ;
X
1261
contract and the ABC had agreed to give
him special time for rehearsal. Yet not-
withstanding the outstanding success of
the 1963 season there was a good deal
of procrastination, administrative ineffi-
ciency, and postponements before the
season was repeated this year.
Supporters of the string orchestra idea
say that some of the musical administra-
tors within the ABC were unhappy be-
cause the string concerts were a threat
to the symphony orchestra's standing,
being completely successful both in audi-
ence and critical reaction. Mainly, how-
ever the difficulties arose because of the
failure of the ABC to realize when it had
really broken through.
For the two and a half years that
Clare was with the Orchestra he tried
to change long-held attitudes. In the end
he resigned because he had lost and saw
no hope of any headway against the lack
of co-operation. He told an ABC fare-
well reception that an orchestra was an
expensive and serious matter and should
not be treated “frivolously”. As for the
future, one prominent musical critic has
pointed out that too many people in Vic-
toria believe that the salvation of the or-
chestra lies in the right conductor. The
ABC management probably hopes that
the right conductor will solve all the pro-
blems of the "bad Press” the orchestra
often gets, the internal difficulties, the re-
signation and the static attendance
figures. The concertgoer probably feels
cheated when the orchestra performs as
magnificently as it did under Andre Cluy-
tens earlier this year and as indifferently
as it has on other occasions. He too
hopes for the “god-conductor”.
Most peaceful change
Tn the meantime there will be no perma-
nent conductor until 1966. Apart
from the visiting conductors next season
no one has made it clear who is respon-
sible for the orchestra between now and
then. Mr Whitely has an unusual letter in
his files which must cause him some con-
cern. It deals with the circumstances
under which Maurice Clare would be
prepared to discuss the problems of the
orchestra as he sees them. Having taken
legal advice Mr Clare wants an assurance
of indemnity from the ABC that any-
thing he says will be treated as privileged
information and that the personalities
that he would necessarily have to name
will not be able to act against him.
The ABC had originally agreed to a
meeting with Mr Clare. Whether it will
do so now under these circumstances is
a question which may be of some impor-
tance in the future of the VSO. There is
one other future development: soon the
VSO will become the “Melbourne Sym-
phony Orchestra”. That will be the most
peaceful change the orchestra has known
for some years.


Another Congo in New Guinea
What happened to the University of Port Moresby?
By J. H. WOOTTEN
W. C. WENTWORTH
J. T. GUNTHER
G. WHITLAM
C. E. BARNES
SYDNEY At a recent Council on
New Guinea Affairs Seminar, Professor
0. H. K. Spate criticised the Federal Gov-
ernment’s failure to deal with the Report
lof the Commission of Higher Education
jn New Guinea, nine months after its
receipt. In the House next day the
Minister for Territories, Mr C. E. Barnes,
said that there were many other opinions
than Professor Spate’s. If the Minister
meant to imply that many people were
opposed to the Commission’s recom-
mendations for immediate action to esta-
blish a Territory University, it is strange
that no one was heard to express such
opposition amongst the widely repre-
sentative group of business and profes-
sional men, academics and administrative
and judicial officers who attended the
Seminar. The breadth of support for
the University proposal is indicated by
the fact that at the Seminar both Mr
Gough Whitlam and Mr W. C. Went-
worth spoke in favor of it. It has edi-
torial support in the metropolitan and
Territory Press.
As long ago as 1962 Mr Paul Hasluck
told Parliament and the Trusteeship
Council that the Government, on the
advice of an official committee, was plan-
ning for a University College in Port
Moresby in 1966.
The Commission consisted of Sir
George Currie, an eminent university
administrator, Dr J. T. Gunther, the very
experienced Assistant Administrator of
the Territory, and Professor Spate of
the Australian National University. After
12 months’ investigations it presented a
335-page report, which canvassed all
aspects of higher education in the context
of the overall problem of Territory de-
velopment. After nine months Mr
Barnes is still considering the report.
, Native spokesmen have unanimously
declared themselves against immediate
self-government, aware that they are not
ready to handle the problems of an inde-
pendent New Guinea. This does not
mean that it is possible to relax efforts
to establish the prerequisites of inde-
pendence. Pressures for independence
usually mount so rapidly that it comes
long before expected, and it is only if
the prerequisites are being rapidly estab-
lished that colonial peoples are prepared
to wait. We cannot rely on the argu-
ment that Australian withdrawal would
mean another Congo, unless we do every-
thing possible to alter that situation. The
answer of the Russian representative in
the Trusteeship Council will become
increasingly cogent. The people of the
Territory indeed have cause to be con-
cerned, he said, if the present state of
affairs is such that Australian withdrawal
would mean another Congo.
desirable prerequisites of inde-
pendence include economic viability
(which can be defined in various ways),
an effective system of law and order, and
the technical skills to maintain services.
The one indispensable prerequisite is an
enlightened elite from which can be
drawn leaders, at the political and higher
administrative levels, capable of making
the decisions and carrying out the acts of
government which are the substance of
independence.
Consistently with independence, Aus-
tralia could supply technical assistance.
It could contribute financially. As Mr
Hasluck said: “We may still be paying
after we have lost any hope of choosing
what we pay for.” At the request of one
former colony, Britain has helped restore
law and order. Assistance would also be
obtainable from other countries, a fact
which would make acceptance less de-
structive of independence.
But unless native leaders are capable
of governing, independence is meaning-
less. They will have to make decisions
at a national and international level, on
issues far transcending those on which
experience can be gained in the valuable
training ground of the Local Govern-
ment Council.
We cannot wait for an elite to emerge
as the slow flowering of a widespread cul-
tural and educational revolution. We can
provide it fast enough only by university
education.
The late Mr E. Ward was unwilling to
accept the view that cadet patrol officers
required a higher formal education than
he had found necessary to become
Minister for Territories. Why should we
consider university education necessary
for New Guinea leaders, but not our
own? Many national leaders and higher
executives have been graduates, but
others have not. The latter represents a
group selected from a large literate com-
munity with a high standard of educa-
tion, in which there are important
informal means of education, such as
newspapers, magazines, books, radio
televisions and the activities of political
parties and voluntary associations, and
which provides the advice and criticism
of many educated persons.
Such a community will develop in New
Guinea as part of the cultural and edu-
cational revolution which its elite will
help to bring about. In the meantime
exceptional self-educated leaders will con-
tinue to emerge, but they will not emerge
at sufficient speed to provide a large
enough pool from which political pro-
cesses can select acceptable leaders. Nor
will they operate effectively as leaders of
an independent State without the support


M
i
y
tiiiiiii
PUT YOURSELF IN THIS PICTURE!
It’s true! Family boating fun costs only a few shillings a day!
Enjoy everything from rough water fishing to water skiing
in the Topper “Tempest”. 14 ft. yet only 360 lbs.! Foredeck,
windscreen, upholstered front seats, remote controls, storage
locker, battery box. Seats 6. For outboards 18 to 50 h.p.
Large open space carries camping gear, fishing tackle or
work equipment. Topper “Tempest” is used by the Maritime
Services Board as a sturdy utility craft and workboat.
Styled and built from Marine Aluminium the de Havilland
“Tempest” can be trailed easily on an economical matching
For complete information on the de Havilland “ Tempest”
and other boats in the famous de Havilland Topper range
contact your nearest marine dealer or post this coupon to:—
DE HAVILLAND MARINE
Milperra Road, Bankstown. N.S.W.
Phone 77 0111
EASY TERMS ON ALL BOATS
CH~
*6AXKSX&Ei
de Havilland trailer. No maintenance . . . just hose your
“Tempest” down now and then! No caulking, scraping or
constant painting. Marine Aluminium will not crack, craze,
warp, split, rot or rust even if you leave it constantly out in
the weather. “Tempest’s” built-in flotation means safety even
when swamped. Polyurethane flotation blocks will support
the “in water” weight of the boat, 6 adults, plus full weight
of motor plus 25 % reserve.
The Manager, de Havilland Marine, Milperra Road, Bankstown,
N.S. W.
Please send me literature on the'de Havilland “Tempest” and
the Topper range of aluminium boats, and the name and
address of my nearest D.H. Marine dealers.
Name ...»
Address
283/64


ll
>!!!!!! H ip
:
m
Complete
A common word, often used. It says
finality. It means having all its parts.
It is how Paynter & Dixon
Industries Limited read it, say it,
and mean it!
Paynter & Dixon, building
consultants, designers and
contractors present a complete
building service to their clients.
It is complete! They take care of
everything from consultation, through
site selection, design and construction,
to the finished building . . .
the completed building.
And from another angle, too —
the complete service saves the
client time, money and worry. All
operations are under one
organisation and on just one contract.
A complete service which has
proved its worth to many of
Australia’s Successful Companies.
PAYNTER & DIXON INDUSTRIES LIMITED
161 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W. 29-7951
161 Fitzroy Street, St. Kilda, VIC. 94-0781
53 Dover Street, Albion, QLD. 63-033
PAYNTER & DIXON
DESIGN
CONSTRUCTION
PD/3
of others with wide education and pro-
fessional skills. Only by tertiary educa-
tion can the necessary elite be produced
in a reasonable time and at an adequate
level.
Primary education depends on second-
ary education to train primary school
teachers. Secondary education similarly
depends on tertiary education. Thus the
university is a keystone for all educa-
tion, including technical education. A
university would produce the technolo-
gists who are essential to plan and direct
work ultimately carried out by trades-
men and technicians. It would develop
agricultural education. The non-technical
professions are no less necessary. The
university would develop the Papuan
Medical College and the Administrative
College.
New Guinea, which has not yet a single
native lawyer, will have ap urgent need
for Supreme Court judges, law ministers
and officers, and at least a leavening of
politicians who understand constitutional
issues. The administration of the law
and the protection of individual liberty
will call for a practising legal profession.
Newspaper and radio work also requires
a nucleus of educated journalists who can
establish a tradition of professional
responsibility in these critical fields.
Power For Few People
Tn every field the conditions of an inde-
A pendent New Guinea will place enor-
mous influence and power in the hands of
a few people. We cannot avoid this, but
we can try to ensure that there is an
educated elite from which the small group
can be drawn.
The 1962 Visiting Mission, led by a
former British Colonial governor, said
that the Administration should have been
planning then to provide an annual turn-
out of university graduates of the order
of at least 100. We are now about to
produce our first couple of graduates, and
there is only a handful of undergradu-
ates. However, the Commission esti-
mated that if its proposals were adopted
30-35 natives would be available to com-
mence university studies in 1965, this
would rise to 110-120 in 1966 and to
450-480 in 1970.
The Commission strongly recom-
mended a separate Territory University,
the immediate appointment of a Vice-
Chancellor and as rapid development as
possible thereafter. The only other way
of providing higher education is to send
students to Australian universities. In-
deed Australia informed the Trusteeship
Council in 1962 that, pending the estab-
lishment of the projected university
college in the Territory, any native matri-
culants would be assisted to attend Aus-
tralian universities.
If the estimated students become avail-
able it would soon be extremely difficult


v. .
I
r*^
The 1890 plantings at Coonawarra Estate of
Hermitage (Shiraz) vines have been supple-
mented over recent years with plantings of
the rare and exquisite Cabernet Sauvignon.
Thus two distinctive high-quality clarets are
available from the Estate. We particularly
recommend two of the recent vintages:
COONAWARRA ESTATE CLARET
1960 Vintage
COONAWARRA ESTATE CABERNET
1958 Vintage
US
ESTATE WINES OF
S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD.
to accommodate them in Australian
universities. It would be more expensive
to send such numbers to Australia than
to run a Territory University. A limited
number of scholarships only would be
offered, and potential graduates lost. The
restriction on scholarships would be sup-
ported by showing that a considerable
number of New Guinea students could
not pass in Australian universities. The
need to matriculate according to an Aus-
tralian secondary school curriculum
would itself greatly reduce the numbers
available.
This does not imply that the Commis-
sion proposed a sub-standard university.
It considered that proper degree stand-
ards could best be achieved by special
entrance arrangements. The secondary
school curriculum would be revised to
suit Territory conditions. The fitness of
New Guinea natives for University edu-
cation would no longer be judged by
their ability to cope with “Macbeth”,
“Wuthering Heights” and Lamb on “Old
China”, which are not even written in the
modern English they have labored to
learn. On completing a four-year
secondary course, they wou'd do a year
of special preparatory studies in the
university.
Students would do secondary school
studies not so alien as to impose un-
necessary obstacles, and without lowering
standards more could be expected to pass.
They would study in Port Moresby,
where any strains of adjustment would be
far less than in an Austra'ian city. In-
stead of the “sink-or-swim” conditions of
Australian universities, they would have
a year’s preparation by their own uni-
versity for their degree courses. These
courses would be related to their needs,
the difference being not in standard but
in content. Law students would study
the law of the Territory, instead of the
law of a very different type of com-
munity.
In an Australian university, students
would tend to become alienated from
their own people, and accustomed to a
standard of living which (particularly
since the Public Service salary cuts) they
cannot hope to maintain in the Territory.
Samoa has had students trained in New
Zealand returning there because of the
salary disparity. It would be unfortunate
to keep graduates in New Guinea under
compulsion when they wished to accept
employment in Australia to maintain
standards of living to which they had
become accustomed.
The Commission estimated the capital
cost of all its recommendations at about
£6.5 million spread over eight years,
capital expenditure in any one year never
exceeding £1 million. Running expenses
for the university proper would rise over
the first three years to flatten out at about
£1 million a year. Part of this is already
being incurred in the Administrative Col-
lege and Papuan Medical College. Re-
current annual expenditure would rise by
1970 to £385,000 for an associated Insti-
tute of Higher Technical Training,
£1,136,000 for Teacher Training (already
partly provided) and £398,000 for other
expenditure, mainly scholarships.
The indications are that the Govern-
ment favors the Institute of Higher Tech-
nical Education. Teacher training has
already been substantially developed. The
main issue is whether the expenditure on
the university proper is justified.
The Commission observed that the cost
would be less than that of half a packet
of cigarettes per member of the Austra-
lian population per year. Building the
university and all its related institutions,
running them for six years and providing
all students with scholarships would cost
millions less than we are spending to
build an opera house for ourselves in one
city.
At the Seminar Mr Whitlam argued
convincingly for seeking international
assistance. If 11 million people
insist that on their own they can solve
the fantastically difficult problems of
New Guinea and its 2 million people,
they must expect to pay dearly for their
pride. In this context Mr Barnes’ recent
comment that Australia itself has tertiary
education problems is unfortunate. No-
body asked us to assume the obligations
of trusteeship. We sought them.
One view is that all available money
should be spent on economic develop-
ment—an independent New Guinea could
not afford a university and should not
be saddled with it. The implication that
a university is not a worthwhile econo-
mic proposition for New Guinea is an
example of the impractical thinking into
which “hard-headed” businessmen and
economists sometimes fall when con-
fronted with something not immediately
translatable into pounds, shillings and
pence.
Worthwhile paying for
1%/fucH of the expenditure suggested by
the Commission will yield a return
calculable in terms of the big difference
in cost between local experts and import-
ed expatriate experts (including the delays
when they are unobtainable). But the
main benefits transcend calculation. What
would it have been worth to the Congo
to have had leaders capable of avoiding
the chaos, murder and destruction which
followed independence? What did the
shortage of professional people cost
Indonesia? What is the value of a native
Supreme Court capable of truly admini-
stering justice and protecting liberty?
How much for a Cabinet capable of
handling a confrontation with Indonesia
or Communist China? A University may
not produce these leaders, but it is the
only hope of providing a sufficiently
large group of educated people from
which such leaders may emerge.
Whether or not an independent New
Guinea could pay for university educa-
tion, it cannot afford to be without it.
It is something Australia would find it
worthwhile to go on paying for. If we
do not, others will.
Through the United Nations Pro-
gramme of Scholarships and Fellowships
for Inhabitants of Trust Territories
(which today means only New Guinea,
Nauru and the Pacific Islands), scholar-
ships are offered by thirteen countries
including Indonesia and five Communist
bloc countries. The USSR offers scholar-
ships for a wide variety of degrees, all
fares and living expenses paid, with a
year of preparatory language studies and
up to three years’ preparatory study for
those who have not completed their
secondary studies.
Not many miles across the West Irian
border, Indonesia already has a flourish-
ing university, with a substantial English-
speaking staff.


%
—\ ,:? ? S
tta'.V •*» rnMi? '**■*»
iJ
m. n
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISK*
HI ) '^%L
ifl;i J-
::: s ; $.
!SI<Z-3
■S S v 'S -SS=B
srs
<1
sv-aa
554
All over the world , , , one Scotch stands out
Eternal triangle
When two’s company, three need not be a crowd
. . . if the third member of the party is Vat 69. This
fine old Scotch Whisky is always welcome, no
matter what the occasion.
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTT
QUEEN ELIZABETH If
SCOTCH MTHiSKV DISTILLER#
m. SANDERSON & SON LTOU
•VAT 69, FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
More than a Scotch, a Tradition for over roo years.
NZL47/8.3*,
DEFENCE
Guns Before Oil
CANBERRA —At some stage some-
one will have to sort out the contradic-
tion between formal defence policy which
aims at the provision of the machines of
war, and the informal side of defence
policy which, in logic, should aim at
securing a position in which Australia
can keep those machines of war func-
tioning.
On November 10, 1964, the Prime
Minister, Sir Robert Menzies, announced
new heavy defence spending. The extra
amount spent is to be £212,000,000 over
three years. Much of this will go on
equipment like planes, ships, trucks, guns
and the like, which need petrol and oil
to keep them going. This makes oil at
least as important a factor in defence as
the actual machines of defence. Yet
only a short while before, the Minister
for National Development, Mr David
Fairbairn, announced further limits upon
the payment of oil subsidies. Explora-
tion companies in future were not to
receive Commonwealth subsidies for new
projects near discovery wells in oil and
gas fields.
Even before Mr Fairbairn announced
this move the oil exploration industry had
been cut back. From 1957 the Menzies
Government had provided subsidy at the
rate of 50 per cent against approved
exploration costs. The Government’s
policy produced results. The Moonie
oil field was discovered and hopeful
signs were encountered elsewhere.
At the stage when it looked an eco-
nomic proposition to invest in the search
for oil, the Government decided not to.
Its 1962-63 Budget reduced the subsidy
from 50 per cent to 30 per cent. Instead
of providing the additional £3,300,000
to keep pace with the exploration acti-
vity its policy had engendered, the
Government decided to keep the total of
the subsidy to £5,000,000. Now it has
taken the further step of penalising suc-
cess in the shape of the oil searcher who
finds oil or gas. It will now not pay
subsidy on discovery wells sunk within
50 miles of Moonie, 50 miles of Alton,
40 miles from Pickanjinnie, Bony Creek
and Richmond, and 30 miles from
another promising series of points.
On the external supply side it is
well worth while to explore where the
bulk of Australia’s supplies currently
comes from. Of Australia’s total petro-
leum imports of £121,100,000 in 1963-
64, £44,400,000 came from Arabian
States and £25,200,000 from Indonesia.
Whether Australia’s supplies from
Indonesia in event of trouble would be
assured is a very open question. If the
Middle East were not available every
other alternative supplier in the world
would be ear-marking its production to
meet its own deficit or the needs of
countries larger and more important than
Australia. Australia would need to have
a navy far larger in size than even that
contemplated under the Government’s
new defence plans, to safeguard tankers
bringing oil to Australia on a scale suffi-
cient to meet the demands of Australia’s
own mechanised defence forces, even if
it could get access to alternative sources
of supply.
If the need for defence preparedness is
as urgent as the Prime Minister Sir
Robert Menzies says it is, the search for
oil should in logic be stepped up not
decreased in tempo, unless (1) the Gov-
ernment considers the finds already made
sufficient to meet Australia’s wartime
needs or (2) it can guarantee Australia
overseas supplies in war situation. As I
understand it, neither (1) nor (2) condi-
tions can be met, and while this remains
so the basic conflict between the Govern-
ment’s defence policy and its oil search
policy remains unresolved.
ALAN REID


wmZ you i(
at tkt ai/ipoit;
• ANY AIRPORT
• ANY TIME
• WITH A NEW FORD FALCON
when you
fly Ansett-ANA
drive A VIS Fulton
I'M V ft. REN j A q AR m
AVIS and ANSETT-ANA combine to give you the most comfort-
able, fast, convenient and economical travel for both business
or pleasure!
TRAVEL RELAXED! Jet to your destination at 7 miles a minute
in luxurious comfort with Ansett-ANA! At any airport through-
out Australia a sparkling new Avis Falcon can be waiting for
you to drive as your own! It’s time-saving! It's money-saving!
It’s the modern way to travel!
Book your Avis Rent-a-Car when you book your Ansett-ANA
flight. It’s as simple as that!
•78/83/64
ANSETT-ANA
COMMUNISTS
Hanoi Calling
BRISBANE The swing to the Left
by a large section of the ALP and the
trade union movement continues. If any-
thing the pace is quickening and respon-
sible ALP and trade union officials who,
a short time ago, claimed that this swing
could be halted now admit they can see
no end to it. One of the most blatant
manifestations of this trend is the visit to
North Vietnam by Mr Alec Macdonald,
Secretary of the Brisbane Labor Council,
Interstate Executive member of the
ACTU and Central Committee member
of the Communist Party of Australia. He
is being accompanied by ALP member
Mr Rex Rickard, secretary of the Milk
and Ice Carters' Union.
According to the Communist “Tribune”
these men are “to attend an international
conference against United States aggres-
sion, in Hanoi, North Vietnam. They
have been asked to ascertain the real
facts of the situation in Vietnam and on
their return to make this widely known
to the Australian people”. The very real
fact that there are a number of Aus-
tralian servicemen in South Vietnam
helping in the instruction of its armed
forces and at times coming under hostile
fire by troops from or supported by the
two travellers’ host country of North Viet-
nam, engaged as it is in the large-scale
armed invasion of the South, appears
not to have been taken into account.
(Queenslandei Kevin Conway was killed
by the Viet Cong.)
The whole sorry affair appears to have
been started by a trip to North Viet-
nam by Mr D. Rees (an organiser for the
Federated Engine Drivers and Firemen's
Association) in July this year. Mr Rees
had just been expelled from the ALP for
running on a Unity ticket.
The month after the Rees visit, in
August, a roneoed statement was circulat-
ed by Mr Norman Hockney on behalf
of “The Committee for Implementation
of the Geneva Agreement on Indo China”.
It was claimed that this committee was
acting in association with 14 trade
unions. Mr Hockney himself was ex-
pelled from the ALP at the same time
and for the same reason as Mr Rees.
Then in September, an advertisement
appeared in the Press titled “Force has
failed in Vietnam”, and urging the with-
drawal of US forces from that country.
Many of the signatories were sponsors of
the recent “Peace” Congress. In October,
the NSW Peace Committee’s journal
“Peace Action” reprinted this advertise-
ment with a list of 22 trade unions sup-
porting such a policy, many of the union
officials being ALP members.
By this time the Committee had be-
come “The Committee for Peace In Viet-
nam” with Mr Hockney as its secretary
and Mr Rickard as the president. But it
is Mr Rees who has been the Committee’s
guiding and most active agent. The Com-
mittee has engaged in widespread agita-
tion for complete withdrawal of US and
Australian forces from South Vietnam
and to “allow the Vietnamese people to
work out their own salvation”
meaning of course to be dominated by
the North and the Communists.
Many people see the Peace in Vietnam
Committee as the Communist Party of
Australia’s answer to Mr Ted Hill’s pro-
Peking Peace Liaison Committee for the
Asian and Pacific Regions or as an instru-
ment whereby the Soviet through the
CPA can attempt to influence those
countries now under the Chinese wing.
It seems clear that the three organisa-
tions should concern themselves in this
affair the Immigration Department
should reconsider its policy in issuing
passports to people travelling to North
Vietnam, the ALP in the matter of
association by some of its members with
the Communist Party in the affair, and
the ACTU in that one of its executive
members should engage in such a trip
at such a time.


r-
I > A
i A
IBM SYSTEM/360
the computer that can simplify
the world’s biggest problems
now comes in
a new size and price.
PI
■
:
1
::
'•'H
:: : ' :■' ' - ' '■
y : !■■■■■■
1 i mm ■ I
i
:
: m
■
-y.
I
■
:
:
l
' o ; ..
m ii
i• y■:
MMMMBMgiaa
am
I sn
1
On April 14, 1964, IBM introduced the SYSTEM/360 an
entirely new concept in computers, a single system that
handles every data processing problem, from the biggest to
the smallest.
To meet the specific needs of fact-conscious, cost-conscious
businessmen representing the broad base of Australian
business, IBM now announces a dramatic extension of the
SYSTEM/360 the MODEL 20 a small, simple, but ex-
tremely fast punched card processor.
For those who are feeling the pressure of the information
explosion but haven’t yet moved into punched card ac-
counting, the MODEL 20 is the easy, inexpensive first step
that takes you directly into today’s most efficient accounting
methods.
And, it’s the newest approach to card processing for current
users of unit-record equipment. MODEL 20 is designed
to help you capitalize on your punched card know-how. You
move smoothly into the computer field without major re-
organization of familiar procedures and records.
Once you start working with SYSTEM/360, you can easily
expand it to solve more or bigger problems as your business
grows.
Ask IBM for complete information now.
IBM SYSTEM/360 MODEL 20
IBM Australia Pty. Limited,
In all principal cities.
18M31.105


From Behind the Wheel
The taxi industry takes a look at itself
By HUGH CURNOW
The amazing Miss Olga Allen
changed gears with manly preci-
sion, whisked a greying strand of
hair back over her passenger-side ear and
told me: “It’s not so bad being a woman
taxi driver —not when you’re my age. No
one tries to take advantage of you. You
get treated with respect, really. That’s
more than most of us get.”
Miss Allen is one of four women taxi
drivers in Sydney. Now past 50, she
describes herself as “a bit of a freak”,
a former driver of the late General
Douglas MacArthur in Brisbane and the
daughter of a Queensland surgeon. Dis-
similar, by virtue of her sex, from
13,996 other taxi drivers in this country,
she nonetheless has all the instantly
recognisable marks of her calling. An
arbiter of public opinion and a baro-
meter of popular grievances, she is a
pungent, if predictable, philosopher. She
also can tell you, more revealingly than
any commercially-produced pamphlet,
what’s going on in the main streets, side
streets and some streets you’ve never
heard of.
“Like lots of other drivers I’m work-
ing myself to the bones of my fingers
trying to pay off this car. You know
there’s a credit squeeze on right now,
don't you? Lots of my passengers have
been complaining about having had their
overdrafts reduced. One man said the
bank reduced his by £5OOO overnight.
I’ve felt the pinch, too. All of a
sudden I’ve got to find a few hundred
quid somehow. Please don’t think I’m
angling for a tip, by the way. But' that’s
life, isn’t it? Keep working and keep
smiling, that’s what I reckon. Incident-
ally, if you ever want a really good cup
of coffee, pop into that little restaurant
over there. They replace the coffee in
their espresso machine more than most
of the others around the Cross,” she
said and added “God bless you”, as I
let myself out.
How typical of taxi drivers is Miss
Allen is one thing that the Australian
Taxi Council is now trying to find out.
The Council has authorised a survey
throughout the Sydney metropolitan area.
Some 600 drivers and 500 owners are
being asked to fill in an exhaustive
questionnaire which has been prepared by
Mr Roger Layton, senior lecturer in
Statistics at the University of NSW. An
additional 500 householders( selected in
100 clusters of five dwellings) are also
to be asked how they feel about taxis.
Vacant look
IVfEANWHiLE, there is one image of
taxis and their drivers that everyone
knows about. In Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Dar-'
win and Canberra, often as not they’re
“those blessed taxis”. Never around
when you want one, or —worse —cruising
by with VACANT signs ablaze but not
stopping, always late when you 'order
one and off every rank when it’s raining,
they are perhaps the most sought after,
maligned, patronised, blessed and cursed
forms of private transport known to
metropolitan man.
Actually, your average taxi driver nets
about £24 a week, is reasonably
courteous, if not courtly, and drives un-
hesitatingly well. He is frequently for-
bidden by law to pick up passengers in
certain city and suburban areas outside
his zone (even when his Vacant sign is
switched on) and he often arrives at your
door within minutes of a requested time
if not on the dot. Furthermore, when it
rains, he is invariably snowed under with
ordered jobs.
Owners —with some notable excep-
tions —are usually reasonable, if shrewd,
businessmen and women. And their
drivers with some voluble exceptions
are content with the working arrange-
ments that exist between them. But the
Taxi Council hopes to do more than just
prick popular illusions about this re-
markably complex industry. Its question-
naire includes things like “Do you own
your own home?” and “Why did you
enter the taxi business?” It is known that
approximately 14,000 drivers are now
registered to drive taxis in Australia’s
eastern states. As well as keeping up pro-
bably the most constant stream of con-
versation in the nation, they also can
be disarmingly frank. Their written ans-
wers to the pilot questionnaire already
concluded by the Council have been en-
couragingly to the point. One driver
wrote that he entered the taxi business
because he “went broke through gamb-
ling”. Another said he “didn't have
enough education for anything else”.
Until the survey is completed nothing
authoritative is known about the men
and women in the taxi business. Some-
thing of a mystery man — even to his
own industry the Australian taxi driver
is surrounded by a mass of statistics,
"Hey 55 - don't look now, but there's a bandit right on your hammer."


mm
U
w
m
Mr. Hiller
and his craft
THE IMPORTANCE OF A NAME
Mr. Ernest Hiller is a craftsman.
He makes suits with more than
ordinary care.
He takes a craftsman’s pride in a
job well done. That’s why you’ll
find his own personal signature on
every suit he makes. It isn’t just
a brand name.
It’s Ernest Hiller’s personal guar-
antee to you.
It means your suit has been
tailored from the very finest fab-
rics. With the care and patience
Mr. Hiller demands.
It means you can buy the
latest international styles
for as little as £25.19.6.
woo
Internationally styled suits, sportcoats and trousers
at better stores in the City, Suburbs and Country.
3932
rumors and known complaints includ-
ing many of his own.
These range from pleas for legalised
multiple hiring during peak hours to a
Brisbane driver’s campaign for a weight
limit on passengers. (An 18-stone woman
recently broke two springs in his rear
seat.) Then there are drivers who want
to be allowed to pick up passengers at bus
stops. Some also want U-turns permitted,
where possible. And many would like to
see the industry controlled by either the
police or Transport departments, not
both. In NSW, which is fairly typical,
both the Police and Department of Motor
Transport enforce regulations governing
taxis.
When a budding taxi driver presents
himself for a licence he is greeted with
an awe-inspiring heap of literature to
absorb. Rules, regulations, advice, hints
and requirements include even a pam-
phlet from the Australian Taxi Council
called “Courtesy Is Contagious”. The
lists of things to know by heart contains
the whereabouts of hospitals, theatres,
banks, hotels and restaurants but also
the shortest routes from suburb to sub-
urb. The Aids To The Driver pamphlet
lists 34 Articles, one with ten clauses. The
ban on multiple hiring gets another page
of foolscap and emphasises that only one
hirer of a cab may be transported on
journeys commencing within a radius
of the city to or from racecources, among
other places. Drivers grumble about this
one and claim that “racegoers don’t
sling” (tip) especially in Sydney where
tipping taxi drivers is much less the usual
thing than in Melbourne or Brisbane.
Ow'ners also will tell you about the
involved regulations regarding the traf-
ficking in taxi plates. In NSW a plate
issued before 1945, for example, may be
sold unconditionally by the owner-driver
to whom it was issued but the buyer of
the plate has the right of resale within
three years, on the grounds of “hard-
ship”. Plates issued since 1945 must be
maintained and unsold for 10 years un-
less a sale is proved necessary because
of financial trouble or other hardship.
Widows may be willed such plates but
not any of the 276 plates issued earlier
this year. They were issued to drivers of
at least 15 years experience who could
establish that being a taxi driver was their
“sole or principal means of employment”.
Many of that age-group, now having
their own cab, work only by day, where-
as they were previously employed on
night shifts. So one result of the new
.issue of those 276 plates has been fewer
[taxis plying for hire at night.
| Some 6000 men are now registered in
Sydney to drive taxis. Melbourne has
only a few hundred less. Brisbane drivers
will number about 2500 in the New Year
when the city taxi fleet will be 1245
equal to one for every 544 people. Syd-
ney, with some 3000 plates on issue, has
one cab for every 752 people and Mel-
bourne, with 2370 cabs, has one for
almost every 1000. As it is considerably
easier to whistle up a cab in Brisbane
than Sydney or Melbourne the goodwill
value of licence plates varies accordingly.
In Sydney they are selling for £6900 this
month and for up to £4BOO in Mel-
bourne. In Brisbane they change hands
for £3600.
Laws governing cabs also vary from
State to State. In Melbourne, where the
Transport Regulation Board runs the in-
dustry, no one is now permitted to buy
more than two taxis. Those who have
fleets of cabs are left-overs from before
the regulations came into force in 1952.
Victoria’s largest individual owner is Mr
A. Gange, whose 149 cabs are sprinkled
among three companies: Astoria, Red
Top and Little’s. Sydney’s “King of the
Cabs” is Mrs M. E. Weaver. She owns
22 taxis in the Sydney Radio Co-op.
group. Most of Sydney’s main taxi groups
—Yellow, Green, De Luxe, Legion, RSL,
etc. —are Co-ops. Some, like Green and
Yellow, have been operating as com-
panies since the 19205.
Tale of an Award
Oassenger figures are quite staggering.
In Sydney alone, the Taxi Council
estimates 100 million people travel by
cab each year. These include 17 million
who are collected at ordered addresses.
The taxi industry’s investment in the
metropolitan area includes about £2m.
initial outlay plus an annual £li million
for administration, wages and registra-
tion and £4 million for fuel, tyres,
repairs and maintenance.
Scratch a taxi driver today and you will
find a man prepared to talk at length
about The Award. Many Sydney drivers
know this tale backwards. But few get
time to tell it all, even on a trip from
Kuring-gai to Botany Bay.
The present, hotly discussed preoccu-
pation with what, in fact, taxi drivers are
began in 1930 when they suddenly found
they were no longer “employees”. This
emerged from the case heard before the
Industrial Commission of Yellow Cabs of
Australia, Ltd, v Colgan. It saw the
beginning of one of the more fascinating
examples of legal leap-frog in Australian
industrial law.
Yellow Cabs had introduced a system
of leasing taxis to drivers. They, in turn,
paid Yellow Cabs 50 per cent of their
gross takings. The Commission found
that under this system the drivers were
not employees but “independent con-
tractors”. It was revealed, further, that
Sydney cabbies were then working be-
tween 70 and 75 hours a week. The
Commission’s president pointed out that
that was 10 to 15 hours more than the


maximum working time the Washington
Hours Committee deemed fit for Indian
coolies in 1919.
Also, the uncontradicted earnings of
the drivers was £34 16s. lOd. over 16
such weeks. This was an average of
£2 2s. lid. weekly which the Commis-
sion found was some 19s. less than the
basic wage.
They remained legally unemployed
until 1943 when the Full Bench of the
NSW Industrial Tribunal decided that
taxi drivers are employees after all, but
only for the purpose of an Award. Then
came an amendment to the Industrial
Arbitration Act in 1957, giving the Com-
mission power to approve or declare void
a contract between a driver and an
owner.
Two years later came the most signifi-
cant development. In 1959 any “un-
registered person” (a driver of a taxi not
registered in his name) was found to be
an employee for the purposes of both
the Industrial Arbitration Act and the
Annual Holidays Act. Such an employee
was a “notional”, or hypothetical, em-
ployee. And for such “notional employ-
ees”, at any rate, it looked as if an
Award might be around the corner.
But then came the case of Stewart
v Feldman which began before the In-
dustrial Magistrate in Sydney in August,
1961. Stewart, the notional employee,
was a driver who had been sacked within
the first year of his employment by Feld-
man, the employer. Under the Annual
Holidays Act, Stewart claimed pro rata
holiday pay from Feldman, whose ABC
Radio Taxis had some 16 cars of which
12 were registered in his own name, the
remainder in the names of others. (A
glimpse of the sort of involved owner-
ship of taxis today was revealed by Feld-
man. He owned all of the ABC taxi
licences (plates). He also was managing
director of Neat Motor Services Pty Ltd.
This company hired the taxis from the
Associated Acceptance Corporation. It
owned the cars.)
In December of that year the Indus-
trial Commission found that Stewart was
not entitled to holiday pay as there was
no Award and no “contract of employ-
ment” between him and Feldman. The
only contract found to exist between the
driver and the owner was found to be a
“contract of bailment”. This was the
agreement that the driver pay Bs. in the
£1 of gross takings as payment for pos-
session of the taxi.
The next move was made by the
Transport Workers’ Union. It applied to
have a Conciliation Committee set up
to cover “notional employees”. Sideline
negotiations then begun between the
Australian Taxi Council (which rep-
resents owners) and the TWU to reach
an Award by agreement soon broke
down. And the Conciliation Committee
was duly established by the NSW
Minister for Labor, Mr J. J. Mahoney.
The TWU then applied to the new
Committee (in September, 1962) for an
award for drivers. This application came
before the Committee the next month
and the chairman was asked to refer it
to the Industrial Commissioner. He re-
fused. Appeals followed soon after.
A ppeal refused
"C'irst an appeal against the- chairman’s
refusal was lodged with the Industrial
Commissioner. It came before Judge
Sheehy who refused it. Then an appeal
was lodged to the Industrial Commission
in Court Session (three judges) against
Judge Sheehy’s refusal. This was also re-
fused in February, 1963, so the original
hearing resumed before the Conciliation
Committee. But only briefly. The owners
now requested the chairman to refer to
the Industrial Commission in Court
Session on “a question of jurisdiction”..
They were asking whether the Com-
mittee had any jurisdiction because TWU
rules allowed only “employee taxi
drivers” and not “notional employees”.
(Before the three industrial judges
brought in a finding on this, the TWU
applied to the Industrial Registrar for
approval of alteration to its rules. The
Registrar, however, had other proceed-
ings pending and could not deal with the
application then.)
The next month the judges found that
the TWU application to the Conciliation
Committee was incompetent. They
pointed out that though a class of no-
tional employees was created by the 1959
amendment only employee drivers could
be allowed by the Union, as the owners
had claimed. The Industrial Registrar,
therefore, was asked to proceed with the
application.
The owners then issued a Writ of Pro-
hibition. This was taken out in the Sup-
reme Court and sought to stop proceed-
ings before the Registrar. It was based
on the grounds that the Industrial Arbitra-
tion Act did not permit the Union to
amend its rules to take in “notional em-
ployees”. But before that writ came to be
heard, the Act was amended (in October
this year) to make that position clear.
The TWU now can include all taxi
drivers.
The Union’s scent of an Award loom-
ing was heightened when earlier this
month the Supreme Court both dismissed
the owners’ application for their writ
and upheld the amendment of the Act.
As we go to press, a spokesman for the
Taxi Council tells me that the owners
plan to appeal against this, if necessary,
to the Privy Council.
Should, as the TWU hopes, all legal
proceedings eventually end with drivers
getting an Award, how much better off
will they be? Allowing for a £5 margin
for skill above the basic wage of 15 gns,
and adding overtime at award rates, they
could possibly begin to average above
£3O weekly in their pay envelopes. They
would also be entitled to holiday pay,
sick leave, etc. Yet many drivers say
they are happier with things as they are.
It is not difficult to see why.
Apart from being able to work as
often (or as little) as they like, most of
them are just as capable of evading some
taxation as the next man. Their earnings
are extremely difficult to determine be-
cause there is no definite way of finding
out exactly how much money a driver
handles.
“We work together with owners. We
make our own agreements. It's the lazy
blighters who want us unionised,” they’ll
tell you, either briefly or at length. And
they believe that.
Another thing they believe is that
the recent finding of the NSW Depart-
ment of Motor Transport should be given
more publicity. It found that in relation
to miles covered, taxis are undeniably
Australia’s safest means of road travel.
"I'd like to get Bob Menzies in my cab one day I'd open his eyes
to a few things."


Cross Beat -I
The Light that Never Fails
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Outside the Wayside Chapel of the
Cross in King’s Cross, there was
a neatly-kept rock-garden, while
inside everything was freshly painted
and spruce. The Rev. Ted Noffs stood
waiting, a smallish, chubby man, near a
white, Grecian-style urn stuffed with
sprays of dried flowers. He indicated
the red, wall-to-wall carpets, the thick
ceiling-to-floor white curtains behind the
altar, the clean, white walls.
“The theology behind all this is to be
accessible,” he said. With a flick of a
finger he bathed the room in white,
dazzling light. “You see that crown and
cross over the altar. Done out in a kind
of rosewood finish. They are, as you’ve
guessed, the symbols of King’s Cross,
and they were sculptured especially for
us. That light over the altar never goes
off. It’s on 24 hours a day, even though
we are only open until 12 at night.
“The drunken reveller will come here,
take off his hat and say a prayer. That
vase of fresh flowers, it’s significant. A
girl died and her mother comes in with
flowers every week. The chapel is some
sort of a comfort to her.”
In the next door room, he flicked on
another switch. An image of the chapel
flashed on to the large television screen
in the corner. “Closed circuit. We tele-
vise the service into the coffee shop up-
stairs. I like to think this is one of the
first electronic churches in the world. We
have a man who translates the sermons
into different languages. Come upstairs
and I’ll show you the rest. This” —he
pointed to a large, oblong painting of the
Last Supper on the floor “usually hits
you as you come in the door. It’s been
done by one of the Beatniks and the
characters in it are well known people
around the Cross . . .
“Here you see ‘Cross Beat’, one of our
literary magazines, and ‘Logos’, another.
We also have an exhibition of art open-
ing here next week, and we’re getting
together a little theatre at the back to
do revues. Folk singers play over there,
see we have a painting class . We
passed through a room with a painting
of a single, claw-like brown hand
isolated against a yellow background, to
another with a TV set and watching
chairs; there were no works of art here.
“This is, to my way of thinking, the most
uncreative room. And this is the poet’s
corner, over here . . . the young people
can do as they please in the corner . . .
they can put up their poems on the wall
. . . sometimes they pin jibes ... we
have to take the blame for Billy Graham,
the Pope, Archbishop Gough . . .”
Back in his downstairs office, Mr Noffs
went on. “The church asked me to come
to the Cross . . . they had been puzzled
for years as to what to do in that area
... I went overseas for six weeks, visited
all the major centres, and came back
convinced we must get away from the
great big places of worship ... I just
put on some old clothes one Saturday
afternoon and went down to Surry Hills
... I knocked on the doors of some so-
called young beatnik people in their pads
... I invited them to come and be part
of the programme up here . . . very soon
they were coming here in hundreds . . .
“Most of them are disillusioned. Their
attitude is, where did your ideals get you,
Ted? What about 70 million dead in
two wars? War is the principal force
that has embittered them . . . they
believe society is the perpetrator of the
hypocrisy of war . . . their fathers fought
in the war and sometimes died . . . was
it worth dying for?
“They call anybody who has a seem-
ing success Suburban Alf . . . Suburban
Alf is the name they gave a typical
square whose standards of behavior come
from the dreary suburbs . . . they’ve
escaped ... all I can say to parents is,
try and keep the door open ... the
young people must not be without your
love ... I have a great sense of pity for
parents who have young people like this.
But it takes courage for young people
to behave like this.
“I can keep the contacts open between
the children and the parents. Many of
these young people are living together
out of wedlock and when I speak to them
they become quite unhappy in their way
of life.
“But within their own orbit there’s a
strict code, a respect and honor and
sensitivity you don’t always find in out-
side society. The attitude is that these
people are queer. But in fact I can say
that homosexuality is at a very low ebb
among them. They pour their cynicism
on the homosexual . . .
“Great numbers are Buddhists. Any-
thing but Christianity. They think that’s
all tied up with big business, newspapers,
public relations, TV commercials ... all
the things they hate. Many of them do
laboring jobs to escape the commercial
rat race. They work on the railways,
or in sweet factories, a few days, manag-
ing to get through. Yes, their fellow
workers send them up ... a good many
suffer a great deal.
“The attitude to them is first one of
great fear. The people suspect they are
deviates . . . there’s an attitude of
cynicism toward them, that they are
pseudo-individualists . . . and then there
is one attitude among some of quiet
respect, and that’s where you get a desire
to be like them, and the numbers grow
“The British are the big influence on
them. There’s been a big percentage of
British beats arriving in recent years ...
“Do they reject Buddha for Jesus


Christ? Well, no, not right away. But
gradually they will come, some of them
anyway, to a service and they find that
Christ looks like them. That He was a
person with no place of abode who
walked there in Galilee with bare feet
“One man, who did an absolutely
blasphemous drawing of Christ and
brought it to me, asked me later if I
would marry him to his fiancee . . .
“I tell these young people we are all in
a common search for truth. And as we
journey in that search we must all move
together . . . we’ve had some trouble,
of course. Last week there were some
drunken kids from the Eastern suburbs.
They attacked all young people with long
hair. They pulled people out of a car,
kicked the doors in. Suddenly a gang
appeared here . . . they threw a stone
and smashed a window upstairs ...
yesterday the door opened and who
should walk in but the leader of the
mob. He came here repentant, and now
I’ve established a good contact with the
gang . . .
“We have a lot of work to do here.
This place costs £BOOO a year to run.
£15,000 if you count in everything. All
the work on it will cost around £50,000.
A lot of it comes from voluntary sub-
scriptions. I’m going to ask the Lord
Mayor to set up a Youth Committee . . .”
Mr Noffs glanced at the Chapel as he
said farewell. “People come here on
their way down Macleay Street. They’re
frightened and they drop in to worship
and rest, and to feel safer on their way.
One of the regular ones is Andrea . .
He waved goodbye in the rain.
Cross Beat—II
Have You any Problems?
By H. MURTAGH
Thumbing through the Monday
morning edition of the SMH a
week or so ago we noted that the
classifieds included a section headed
“Professions, Trades, Etc.” It con-
tained only nine advertisers, all of them
masseuses.
We searched through the previous
week’s SMH classifieds. Occasionally a
few accountants appeared under “Pro-
fessions, Trades, Etc.” but the mas-
seuses heavily outnumbered them. Ladies
with names like “Marie”, “Neo” and
“Madame Eva”, rubbed shoulders with
“Triska” who, described as an “attractive
Russian masseuse”, offered a “Conti-
nental full body massage” and included
her telephone number. Another was
more succinct: just “Massage by Conti-
nental masseuse, Kings Cross” and a
telephone number. Two others also put
Kings Cross in their ad. One said her
massage was “stimulating”. Another
loomed in capitals: “A FULL BODY
MASSAGE, ETC., Swedish, Oriental,
Continental. 4 Masseuses. Turkish
bath”. (Their business hours were “9
a.m.-9 p.m., 7 days a week”.) We be-
gan dialling a few numbers . . .
Each was answered by a foreign-
accented woman who said we could ob-
tain a full body massage almost any time
from her but it would be wiser to make
an appointment. The charge would be
the same at each establishment: two
guineas. We made an appointment for
6.30 p.m. The address had an imposing
entrance flanked with rows of brass
plates bearing the names of doctors and
dentists. The flat was two floors up by
the silent lift.
A woman of about 50 shared the lift
ride with us and also alighted at the
second floor. She sniffed when she saw
us ring the bell of the flat next to hers.
The door was opened by an arthritic-
looking, middle-aged man in well-worn
sports clothes who also sniffed. “Pardon
me,” he said, “I’ve got a bit of a cold.
Did you have an appointment?” We said
yes, and he told us not to look so
worried, he wasn’t the masseuse. “I’m
just minding the flat while she’s visiting
the doctor upstairs.” He invited us to
take a sauna bath for half an hour until
she returned.
It was a one-bedroom flat with a bath-
“And apart from that beautiful
tone, the square on the hypotenuse
equals the sum of the squares on
the other two sides."
room, kitchen, living-room and annexe.
My caretaker led the way to the annexe,
apologising for the appearance of the
flat as he went. The kitchen was littered
with unwashed dishes, a business-like
desk in the living-room was piled high
with sheets of paper. The TV was turned
on. A chintz curtain partly concealed
a massage table behind the desk. The
annexe adjoined the bedroom which was
divided in two by another curtain, a
second massage table on one side, a
bed on the other. My caretaker now
invited us to undress in the annexe and
place our clothes on a cane chair there,
at the same time producing a towel to
wrap around our waist.
Also in the annexe were two heating
units covered with blankets. He fiddled
briefly with a switch under one of these
and then told us to sit on the blankets.
He then encased us in a wrap-around
screen, fastened down a plastic cover
over the top and wedged the towel
around the opening through which our
head protruded. “You can watch the
TV from there until she gets back,” he
said cheerily. “If it gets too hot inside,
feel around underneath you for two
buttons. One adjusts the temperature.”
He then retired to the living-room,
leaving the annexe door open so we could
watch the television news.
As the “sauna” got hotter the news-
reader began to blur through the drops
of sweat trickling into our streaming
eyes. We felt around for the buttons
but must have pushed the wrong one
as the blankets soon seemed to be scorch-
ing. Just as the last news item was being
announced, the doorbell rang and the
caretaker answered it. A 40-ish woman
entered, carrying what appeared to be
the weekend shopping. “Voila! Some-
one in the sauna already, ya?” she said.
Having placed her packages in the
kitchen she came into the annexe, leaned
over us, patted our saturated head and
asked: “Had enough of that?” without a
smile. Up close she was a once-pretty
ash-blonde with pink lips and pale skin.
Releasing us from the “sauna” she told
us to run quickly to the bathroom,
dripping as little as possible on the car-
pet, please. She followed at a quick trot
and instructed us to take a cold shower,
allowing the water to play for two
minutes on our knees and two minutes
on the backs of our legs. This, she
said, reaching up to adjust the pink
gauze shower curtain, would cause blood
to rush to our stomach which would
be “very good”.
Precisely four minutes later we
emerged, towel-swathed and tingling, and
found her signing papers at her desk in
the living-room. The caretaker had
vanished. The phone rang and she spoke
quietly into it. “No, don’t hurry over.
Just take your time. Yes, I remember
you. Get here in about half an hour.”


Stone-age
Stacking
in the
Jet Age?
MODERN packaged and crated
goods call for modern methods of
handling—methods which save time,
space, money and manpower, yet do
not involve the ownership of expen-
sive equipment.
ONE of the most revolutionary tools
of industry and commerce is the fork
lift truck. Hire modern fork lift
trucks from CHEP —by the hour, by
the week, or on a permanent basis.
CHECK WITH CHEP. Call the
nation’s most experienced advisers in
materials handling to review your
problems, without cost or obligation.
CHEP PTY. LTD.
Crescent Street, Glebe, N.S.W. 68 4211
CHEP PTY. LTD.
Sandgate Road, Albion, Brisbane, Qld. 6 2181
L. D. NICHOLLS LIMITED
205 Hanson Road, Woodville North, Adelaide. 45 44*-^
She hung up. “Now, in there,” she told
us, this time smiling widely, pointing
towards the bedroom. Following, she
told us to lie down on the massage
couches and, switching the light on,
handed us two magazines to read while
she “changed”.
The magazines were an American
men’s magazine and a sort of nudists’
annual. Naked Scandinavian women
with hairs on their legs unfolded across
every page of that one. Showgirls leaned
precariously over mattresses in the
other . . . Some 10 minutes and two
phone calls later, the masseuse returned.
She was now wearing an incongruous
pink nylon outfit, rather like a shrunken
gym suit. “Lie on your stomach and
remove the towel, please,” she said
reaching for a tin of powder. “Have you
any special problems?” she went on,
sprinkling our spine. “I mean about
your general health, that sort of thing,”
she added, working with her knuckles
from neck to stern. We said we had been
feeling fine lately. “You’d be surprised
what sort of problems some men have,”
she said and told us to relax.
“Now ... you must relax”
npHE pounding that followed stopped
A abruptly and was replaced by a tick-
ling trill of her agile fingers way down
our back. She repeated this and asked us
if we liked it. She then reached for a
vibrating, padded iron with which she
proceeded to iron our thighs. Meanwhile
her monologue about bodily health con-
tinued. “You should not drink with meals
or take any liquid for three hours after
eating. You have acid in your shoulders.
I can feel it—there! You should not eat
bread. That creates acid and is quite
worthless. Salads are much better for you
than bread,” she added intensely. “I think
you have a marvellous body,” she lied
but added quickly: “However, they need
working into shape.” She wedged one
of our elbows between her thighs while
she jerked the other one as high over
our head as she could manage, against
the grain as it were.
“Separate your legs now,” she said
between heaves. She then began to use
the vibrating iron again, with remark-
able finesse. “I can hurt if I press too
hard with this,” she panted gaily. A
moment later she asked us to lie on our
backs, please.
“Now,” she breathed, “you must relax
your stomach muscles, if you can. Do
you have trouble with indigestion, consti-
pation, that sort of thing?” she went on.
We shook our head and she began to
work on our stomach, alternating with
hands and iron. After the startling
application of a handful of warmed oil,
there was an urgent ring at the doorbell
and the masseuse left the room, handing
us several pink tissues to mop our brow
as she went.


m
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated in England)
Assefs exceed £200,000,000
The Royal Exchange Assurance Group of Offices provides a
world-wide insurance service backed by experience over almost two
and a half centuries.
The following are the associated companies operatinq in
Australia:
• ATLAS ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• AUSTRALIAN & EASTERN INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
• THE STATE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• BRITISH EQUITABLE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• THE PACIFIC INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
Branches in all States
Head Office for Australia—
Kindersley House,
Bligh/O'Connell Streets,
Sydney.
Frank H. Egerton
Manager for Australia
We decided to get dressed. In the
annexe three men Were seated in the
living-room. A fourth, pink with em-
barrassment, was standing near the mas-
sage table in there, clutching a towel
around his waist and peeping apprehen-
sively around the curtain. A fifth could
be heard taking a shower.
The masseuse was also seated in the
living-room, at her desk. Two of the
rub-a-dub-dub trio waiting in armchairs
gave us horse-winks. The third gazed
steadfastly at the TV. “It’s two guineas?”
we said, taking a step towards the desk
over a pile of towels on the floor. She
looked up from her writing with a per-
functory “Yes” and a perceptible frown.
We got the impression that she was
beginning to feel the need of a larger
flat. The money handed over, she
reached for her pen again. For one
moment we thought she was going to
give a receipt, for income tax purposes.
Instead she wrote her telephone num-
ber on a card and handed it to us.
“We’re not in the new book, yet,” she
explained.
The Skull behind
the Pirate
“My taste in music is 360 degrees "
By R. J. SCHOLFIELD
In postwar Britain there have been
few entertainment heights that Aus-
tralians have not scaled. Latest to
reach the top is 43-year-old Allan Craw-
ford, former wartime pilot who, as
master of the pirate Radio Caroline, is
now as surely on the air as he once was
on it.
Results of surveys recently announced
in Britain show that seaborne Radio
Caroline in its first six months of opera-
tion has won more listeners than the
BBC’s Light Programme, its nearest
rival. And this month the Egg Market-
ing Board announced that the bulk of
its advertising allotment would go to
Radio Caroline. This is the first time a
semi-Government body has officially
recognised the existence of the pirate
radio.
The surveys, conducted by the same
organisations that produce nationally-
accepted ratings for all radio and tele-
vision sources in the country, show that
during any week on an average day in
London, 45 per cent of the listening
public tunes in to Caroline, with an
additional six or seven per cent at week-
ends, making overall weekly listening of
50 per cent of the potential. This means
that about 20 million people at some
time or other during the week hear
Caroline. It also means that at any given
time during the day, Caroline has 10
per cent of the total listening, which is
higher than for the BBC “Light”.
With £450,000 of advertising in the
bag, the Advertising Institute’s recom-
mendation against it withdrawn and some
of the country's biggest business names
reaching for their cheque books, Radio
Caroline has indeed arrived.
Crawford sees himself as the liberator
of Britain's radio masses. Young Allan
Crawford did well at Newcastle High
School, and when he was 16 it suddenly
came to him that music would be his
life. He joined the Royal Australian
Air Force after starting as an accountant
with a Sydney engineering firm, trained
in Canada, and in England flew Hali-
faxes, Wellingtons and Liberators, listen-
ing to music and playing the piano badly
between flights.
I\uring this time he met Oscar Ham-
merstein. “I was honored,” he said
this week, “to find that we spoke exactly
the same language.” The young man’s
musical tendencies came to focus on
lyric-writing. After the war, Crawford
was demobilised in Britain and appointed
Australian manager of an American
record company called Southern Music.
He set out for Australia in a Percival
Proctor with another pilot, was stranded
in Persia and arrived in Sydney 11 days
and 11 dollars later. In 1955 he became
London manager of the same company,
but the position was not enough for his
ambitions. “Big companies and the BBC
had a stranglehold on music,” he says.
“The only other outlet, Radio Luxem-
bourg, had been bottled up by the large
record companies, all pushing their
music.”
Crawford took the first step around
the stranglehold by forming his own


mm
Ills
.yi.dVniui*"'^
A quiet mood
of easy talk
and water adding wonder
to the wonder of a fine Scotch
(D Gillum's
the whisky—Perfection
(T) c Calluntfs
6^
Scots (JJKlsky
a product of Scotland ... of her soil, her rivers, her very atmosphere.
MC66.85
record company in 1959. The next step,
to get his originals before the public,
was a bigger one. In 1961 he formed a
company and bought a ship to set up a
radio transmitter off-shore where the
post office could not get him for broad-
casting without a licence. But the
closing down of a similar venture off
Copenhagen alarmed his backers and
they withdrew their money, forcing him
to unload his 800-ton boat at a loss of
£lO,OOO. A year later, when the Swedes
stopped Radio Nord, another pirate, the
backers Crawford was re-assembling
again scattered. The third attempt has
been more successful. With a fresh set
of backers, Crawford bought the Radio
Nord vessel, Mi Amigo, renaming it
Atlanta.
Meanwhile, an Irishman named
O’Reilly got wind of what Crawford was
doing, liked the idea and quickly fitted
up a ship of his own. He called it
Caroline some say after Caroline
Maudling, daughter of the former Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer, who was in the
news about that time. The Caroline
started transmitting from off the south-
east of England. Soon after, Crawford’s
Atlanta began broadcasting from its
anchorage off Felixstowe, Essex.
So for a time the two pirates were
rivals, although Crawford, who was
probably angling all along for a deal with
O’Reilly, maintained that they were
never other than friends. Earlier this
year the two amalgamated, the Caroline
steaming to a new spot off the Isle of
Man to become known as Caroline
North and the Atlanta to be renamed
Caroline at its old anchorage off Felix-
stowe. The former rivals are now co-
managing-directors. “We clash like hell
because our temperaments are different,
but it works,” says Crawford.
Wispy girls, dapper men
clashing takes place in pleasant sur-
roundings. Crawford, a brisk, cheer-
ful man who looks something like
Mickey Rooney with more space be-
tween the eyes, rules his half of the
empire from a vast lemon-carpeted, gilt-
ceilinged room at the front of a Vic-
torian mansion that has been jazzed up
and rechristened Caroline House, in the
heart of Mayfair. Wispy young girls,
all hair and eyes, smoulder at the recep-
tion desk and slink from one chan-
deliered room to another, while dapper
young men with satchels full of papers
study each other in the lobby.
As you near Crawford’s desk after
the trek from the door, batteries of
phones become visible. He seems to like
using them, reaching without hesitation
for one to convey an idea to an underling
if he should happen to pick it up in
conversation with a guest, or if a penny
happens at that moment to drop in his
own mind. Crawford talks willingly and
specialises in a disarming frankness.
“There is great satisfaction in push-
ing deserving people past the no-hopers
who too often monopolise today’s radio
programmes,” he said. “The best legal
brains in England have at some time or
other been involved in this radio struggle,
and one of the greatest satisfactions for
me is that now and then the issues
transcend the immediate question of
radio and become one of principle, and
I see myself as helping to win justice for
mankind. This thrills me, and I can’t
wait to get into the office'in the morn-
ings to see what the day will bring.”
He runs a bachelor flat in Ashleigh
Gardens, Westminster, and gets his time
straight from Big Ben, which his window
stares in the face. Crawford had a
string of Mercedes-Benz cars, but now
gets around in taxis. Holidays are
something else that have passed out of
his life. “I tried ski-ing, but couldn’t
afford all the broken legs. I was too
heavy and went down hill too fast.”
Crawford’s record company now


llii
%
sir
m-
m
■: K
.
•' *••
• '< .:
< w '
W ••••,. *
if
■;■ ■■■ ■■
'■& 4
-r,
L/'
■
■ y* ■ :sfi
ISiS - '^lSf
Hb| •
. ■ BmH 1
*
-■ > - • •
o
%
<3*
&
o
A
o
t:
o
*
Ct
©
%
©
%
*
j>
♦
♦
..the
forward
line
featuring a forward pitch that follows the
natural concave shape of your shoulders and
contours of your chest. THE GREATEST SUIT
EVER with so many outstanding features. More hand
stitching more fine detailing silky Bemberg linings
and trouser creases that are SI-RO-SET. You find all
these fine features in a Keith Courtenay Ambassador
The Finest Suit in Australia.
SEEN AND BOUGHT
AT BETTER STORES
EVERYWHERE
For your nearest write:
Flinders Lane/ Melbourne V
A Keith Courtenay keeps its crisp new look longer than any other suit
sports four titles —“Canon”, “Crossbow”,
“Sabre” and “Carnival”, and the discs
flow from them in a growing stream
through the funnel of Carolines North
and South. “My taste in music is 360
degrees, I’m happy to say. We get not
thousands, but tens of thousands of
letters from the public. They are mostly
about the recordings, and almost the
only critical ones are from people like
members of the Bing Crosby Club com-
plaining that their favorites have been
overlooked. I feel the public is quietly
appreciative of receiving something it
was denied before. I am rather grate-
ful that the privilege of giving it to them
was held back for me.”
Crawford may need all the sympathy
he can get, for behind the scenes an-
other battle is brewing. Crawford has
long-known that whichever party won the
elections would soon renew attempts to
regularise the position either by
legislating against advertising with off-
shore radio or legalising commercial
radio in Britain.
The loyalty of proteges
/Crawford thinks the next move will
come through the Council of Europe,
and claims that his British enemies have
been busy lighting a fuse that will burn
from Geneva to the House of Commons.
Crawford is trying to rally support both
in Britain and on the Continent. He
anticipates that in the more distant
future commercial radio in Britain will
become a fact, and his is one of more
than 100 companies registered for such
a day.
The romantic view he takes of him-
self as deliverer of Britain’s listeners
from the bondage of the BBC is
augmented by the glow he gets from the
loyalty of proteges. One is Michel le
Grande, author of the musical “les
Parapluies de Cherbourg” and in Craw-
ford’s opinion Europe’s top lyric writer.
When rights to sub-publication were
being offered, Crawford could have been
outbid by a dozen competitors in Europe
and America, but le Grande stayed faith-
ful to him. “Old friends are all very
well,” Crawford recalls, “but the tempta-
tion must have been awful. I could afford
to pay only a fraction of what was being
offered elsewhere. But the relationship
survived.”
Before Raoul Breton, discoverer of
Charles Trenet, died he called Crawford
the greatest publisher in the English-
speaking world and handed him much
of his catalogue.
The loyalties Crawford is now bent
on commanding are behind the turntable
rather than on it, in the form of
accounts like Ford, Berger and Unilever,
which have recently come his way.
With them on his side he may not only
break one radio monopoly but build up
a brand new one of his own.


OVERSEAS
China’s Push Southwards
What should Australia do NOW?
By T. B. MILLAR
When viewing the Chinese People’s
Republic through the bamboo
curtains of its immigration, police
and censorship policies, and with the ad-
ditional, almost insurmountable, prob-
lems of culture, language and semantics,
it is often very difficult indeed for a
Westerner to be sure what Chinese policy
actually is. But we do have clues. We
have the public pronouncements of the
Chinese leaders or party organs; the in-
creasing volume of literature from de-
fectors; the reports of diplomats in the
country, and visitors to it. We can ascer-
tain the trade figures of other nations
with China. Finally we can observe the
actions of China. The Chinese People’s
Republic has done a number of things
from which we can draw some con-
clusions.
In early October 1950, Chinese forces
began to move into Tibet for the purpose
of what was called “liberating” it. Today
Tibet is a Chinese province under com-
plete control, although not without dis-
sension.
The Korean War had begun in June
1950. China was determined not only
to return the UN forces to the 38th
parallel but to push them into the sea.
However, the position eventually sta-
bilised roughly along the 38th parallel.
North Korea has probably not exactly
become a Chinese province, but it cannot
embark on policies which are not con-
ducive to the interests of the Chinese
People’s Republic. In other words, Chin-
ese hegemony has been established over
North Korea.
It is difficult to assess the degree of
Chinese control over the North Vietnam
Government and the
operations in Viet-
nam and Laos. On
15th September last,
the New China
News Agency in
Peking reported that
the South Vietnam
National Front for
Liberation would
soon establish a permanent delegation in
Peking for the purpose of “further con-
solidating solidarity between the Chinese
and South Vietnamese people” This
suggests that the Peking Government is
taking over the direction of the Viet
Cong operations in South Vietnam, and/
or providing for a “front” Government
of South Vietnam under Peking’s control.
In recent times there have also been
fairly clear indications of Chinese in-
volvement in the operations of the Pathet
Lao in Laos. For example, on May 13
last, an editorial in the Peking “People’s
Daily” warned that Laos once again
faced the dangers of an all-out civil war,
and said “we feel it absolutely necessary
to take immediate effective measures”.
A few days later, the Pathet Lao, sup-
ported by the Viet Minh, launched an
attack on the neutralist forces in the
Plain of Jars. In Northern Laos, such
has been the movement and activity of
Chinese from across the border that the
northernmost region is now, in effect,
a Chinese district.
In October 1962, Chinese armies in
Tibet attacked and invaded northern
India, causing large numbers of casual-
ties in killed and wounded. They subse-
quently withdrew almost to their original
positions, but have continued to build up
their forces along the Himalayan borders
of Pakistan, India, Nepal, Sikkim and
Bhutan, make permanent camps, develop
roads and airstrips, and stockpile
supplies.
Things are happening elsewhere across
China’s borders which merit our serious
attention. When I was in Pakistan earlier
this year, reports appeared in the Indian
Press of a road being developed to link
China and Pakistan, through Gilgit. I
asked Pakistani officials about this, and
understood them to say that there was no
substance in the report. However, in the
Press recently there was an announce-
ment by the Pakistani Minister of Works
to the effect that such a road was not
only planned but had been completed
on the Chinese side up to the border.
You will have heard also of the road
being built by the Chinese between Lhasa
in Tibet, and Katmandu, in Nepal, which
is near completion. A further road from
Tibet into Nepal, several roads up to the
border, and a lateral road within Nepal,
are being built by the Chinese. China is
most active in Nepal, both diplomatically
and through various aid projects. There
fpms article is a condensation of a
paper recently delivered by Dr
T. B. Millar of the Australian
National University to a meeting of
the Australian Institute of Political
Science. It will shortly be printed in
full as a monograph of the Institute.
is little of the coun-
try which has not
been the subject of
surveys by Chinese
“experts” Nepal it-
self is strategically
vital to India, domi-
nating as it does the
rich Ganges plain.
It is not often
realised that Katmandu is south of Delhi.
I have mentioned the roads, airstrips
etc. in Tibet along the borders of the
Himalayan States. The Chumbi Valley,
between Sikkim and Bhutan, pointing
“like a dagger” (as they say) at India
has been strongly developed in this way.
I understand that the old war-time Ledo
road, which linked Assam in North-
eastern India, through northern Burma,
with Yunnan province in China, has been


A pleasure to give ...
sheer delight to receive
llofM
|cam
SCOTCH WHISKY
In the dignified new gilt pack
restored and is operational almost to the
Indian border. In eastern Burma, more
roads and bridges are being built or im-
proved by Chinese labor. New roads have
been built also to the borders in the
south, into Thailand, into North Vietnam
and northern Laos, and from North
Vietnam into Laos.
One purpose of these activities may be
to develop China's outer areas, to ensure
the maintenance of law and order, and
to improve communications and trade
with neighboring countries. But China is
also laying the infrastructure for what is
at very least a mild but persistent ex-
pansion of influence, or could, if not
checked, be an explosively overwhelming
expansion of territorial control. On the
Chinese side of her frontiers with Burma,
with Thailand and elsewhere, there are
sizeable racial minorities whose “majori-
ties” live across the border. The Chinese
Government has accordingly set up so-
called “autonomous” regions on its side,
ostensibly with the purpose of protecting
its minorities and safeguarding their
culture, but reportedly with the effect of
encouraging infiltration and subversion
among the neighboring majorities.
One of the main worries in South-East
Asia is not the Chinese who live dn
China but the Chinese—some 13 million
of them —who live in South-East Asia.
There is considerable evidence that the
Government of the Chinese People's Re-
public considers the “Overseas Chinese”,
(as they are usually called, whether they
are actually overseas or merely over-
land) as providing from among their
number a built-in fifth column, a source
of agents for intelligence and subversion,
a valuable instrument of foreign policy,
a channel for educational propaganda,
an instrument for political influence, a
means of promoting trade, a substantial
source of foreign exchange and even
capital investment, and a bargaining
counter over the question of citizenship.
There is a continuous flow of overseas
Chinese to and from mainland China,
the Government of which has set up a
special department to deal with them.
The terrorist insurrection in Malaya,
which lasted from 1948 until it was vir-
tually liquidated by 1960, was inspired
and carried out by Overseas Chinese
Communists, with encouragement, train-
ing and guidance from Peking. En-
couragement, guidance, training and
supplies are now given to Chinese
Communists in northern Borneo, for
whose activities the Indonesian confron-
tation policy is such a useful cover. There
have been reports that Indonesian Com-
munists have made contact with the
remnants of the Malayan Chinese Com-
munist guerrillas near the Thai border.
This brings us to the question of the
degree of Chinese orientation of the Com-
munist parties in southern and eastern
Asia. Almost without exception, they
are strongly orientated towards Peking.
jOrobably by 1970, if not before, China
will be able to drop a nuclear bomb
on Delhi or Bangkok; by 1980, on New
York or London, or Moscow, or Sydney.
What is the significance to Australia of
the foreign policies of the Communist
Chinese dictatorship? Are we in immi-
nent direct danger?
It does not seem that we are at pre-
sent in any direct and imminent danger ,
from China, since China does not now
have, nor could it quickly produce from
its own resources, the means to launch an
invasion of our island continent. But it
would matter very much to us if China
gained control of the whole of South-
East Asia, or if Indonesia had a Peking-
orientated Communist government.
In addition to other valid reasons,
Malaysia is very important to us be-
cause it is our chief supplier of rubber
and tin, a helpful supplier of oil, and it
has a naval base (Singapore) with im-
mensely valuable repair and docking


4
CHOOSE THE CAMERA YOU NEED FROM THIS FABULOUS OLYMPUS RANGE
OLYMPUS - PEN
The world’s first and only
single-frame reflex. This
miracle of engineering
gives superb results, ac-
claimed by the world's
best photographers. Auto-
matic diaphragm, instant
return mirror, rotary focal-
. plane shutter synchronises
for electronic flash at all speeds. Wide-angle telephoto and zoom
lenses available. Full range of accessories includes CdS coupled
meter, bellows, extension tubes, copying stand, etc. With fl.B 38 mm.
Zuiko and case £64.10.0.
PEN
STANDARD
OLYMPUS PEN. Zuiko f 3.5 lens. Shutter
speeds from 1/25- 1/200 sec. Complete
with case £13.13.0.
PEN S. Zuiko f 2.8 lens. Shutter speeds
from 1/8- 1/250 sec. Complete with
case £17.0.0.
limns
PEN
EE
OLYMPUS PEN EE. Zuiko f 3.5. Fully auto-
matic, electronic shutter 1/40 - 1/200
sec., shutter release does not work in
unsuitable light. With case. £22.10.0.
OLYMPUS PEN EES. Zuiko f 2.8 focusing
lens with all features of Pen EE gives
additional versatility.
With case £25.0.0.
DELUXE
OLYMPUS PEN D. Zuiko f 1.9 focusing
lens. Built-in meter with coupled LV
system. Shutter speeds 1/8 - 1/500 sec.
Complete with case .... £27.10.0.
ELECTROSET
SC
Deluxe 35 mm. camera. CdS meter
‘matchmatic’ system. Match needle in
viewfinder or on top of camera, fl.B
lens, 10-speed shutter, coupled range-
finder. With case £39.10.0.
»] I
I
Specially designed for Pen slides.
Brilliant light output, cool running and
wide-angle lens for full-screen pictures
in normal room. Complete with lamp
and carrying case £13.13.0.
Automatic slide changer .... £3.5.0.
°*-VMf»us
1277/93/ 64
VINSON FOR VALUE' PRODUCTS
facilities. A Chinese-controlled South-
East Asia would make it very difficult
for our nearest neighbour, Indonesia, to
hew an independent line, supposing it
wished to do so. An independent,
friendly Indonesia is of great strategic
importance to Australia and eminently
desirable for other, obvious reasons. We
are disturbed by the present Indonesian
attitude of confrontation, its overtly ag-
gressive nature, and its effects on the
security of Malaysia and the stability
of the region. A Communist Indonesia
would be a still greater problem; Indo-
nesia has considerable resources, especial-
ly of oil and other raw materials, which
would be attractive to China as they
have been to Japan. A Communist-con-
trolled Chinese-orientated Indonesia, even
if the South-East Asian mainland situa-
tion remains as it is would in effect
enable China to leap-frog SEATO in a
southwards expansion. If a Commuist-
controlled South-East Asia and/or Indo-
nesia became openly hostile to Australia,
our trade would be affected and our
lines of communication would become
much less secure.
75% of our exports and 66% of our
imports follow trade routes vulnerable
to a hostile maritime power in South-
East Asia. The imports include almost
all the oil we use, some 40% of which
comes from Indonesia and northern
Borneo. Certainly at present China is
not a maritime Power. But Indonesia is
becoming one. It has a much more
powerful navy than we have, with a
dozen or more submarines, a heavy
cruiser, destroyers, missile-carrying motor
boats, etc. It has an army of some
350,000, and a substantial air force.
It may be that Indonesia will avoid at
all costs hostilities with Australia; at
present it does not show signs of taking
such avoiding action, and it would not
now be especially honorable or good
strategy for us to do so by deserting
Malaysia. It may be that Indonesia will
never have a Communist government,
but we clearly cannot bank on it.
T have said that China does not at
A present have the means to launch an
invasion of Australia. It would seem un-
likely, at this stage, that the Chinese
Government has any desire to do such
a thing. Yet, given success in South-East
Asia, it would not be beyond the bounds
of possibility that China, like Japan
before it, might fasten its gaze on Aus-
tralia’s wide open spaces, our great food
and fibre-growing capacity, and our
sophisticated and expanding industrial
capability. And a China which controlled
South-East Asia and Indonesia could
bring considerable pressure on Australian
trade and foreign policies without mili-
tary invasion or conquest of our conti-
nent.
If you accept these contentions, what


'iSm
m
~,
«
MAC BARENTS FINEST
■
if
The tobacco that keeps the
promise of its “bouquet”
B A /?£
wnn
“TlcisiH/ ,
Ml IJ I I iII IM
X,.
F *of\ THE
Open a tin and the aroma of 6 different
tobaccos dominated by a golden ripe Virginia
promises you an extravagant smoking pleasure.
MAC BAREN’S
PLUMCAKE
Imported especially for the pipe-
smoking connoisseur. 2 oz. tin 8/8
SA9B
then should Australia do that it is not
now doing? Should we arm to the teeth,
conscript manpower, and put industry
on a wartime footing? Should we send
a division or two to South Vietnam to
assist the Americans there? Should we
develop our own nuclear weapons, or
invite the United States to station some
of its missiles here? Should we buy half
a dozen Polaris submarines, or a couple
of aircraft carriers? Or, should we open
diplomatic relations with China, or
withdraw from SEATO, or invite the
presence of the United Nations, or foster
the neutralisation of South-East Asia?
Should we spend less on defence and
more on foreign aid? Should we form
a “peace corps” and send it to Asia
to do our diplomacy for us?
Let us consider the second set of
propositions first. The opening of diplo-
matic relations with Communist China
is most desirable. There is, in fact, no
legal impediment to our acknowledging
now, today, the Government of the
Chinese People’s Republic as the Gov-
ment of China. There be a good
case for our doing so. Yet we have no
assurance that China would reciprocate,
or that we would thereby improve rela-
tions with China unless, as the Chinese
Government insists, we at the same time
at least severed all relations with the
Nationalist Government on Formosa.
Australia is in no position to force a
“two Chinas” or a “one China, one
Formosa” policy on Peking. We do not
know what further conditions China
might put on giving the normal effect
to recognition (through the establish-
ment of missions, etc.) but the example
of France suggests that some pulling
away from the Western Alliance might
be expected of us, might even be a pre-
condition for China’s “recognising”
Australia. Yet it might still be valuable
to make a unilateral declaration of
recognition, while reserving our position
over Formosa.
The argument I have developed, does
not lead to the conclusion that we should
withdraw from SEATO, but rather that
we should do what we can to make it
more viable and credible, while at the
same time looking for the political,
economic and social means whereby we
might hope to make SEATO ultimately
unnecessary As to the “neutralisation”
of South-East Asia, frankly it is hard to
see what the term means. If one con-
siders Austria as the model for neutralisa-
tion, how can this be achieved? Northern
Laos is much more likely, to be the
model, and we all know what kind of
neutrality it has enjoyed. Foreign aid, and
civilian operations similar to the Peace
Corps, are not unknown to us. They can
be valuable in themselves. But they are
uncertain adjuncts to diplomacy; they
provide no guarantee of goodwill, and
no clear return proportionate to effort or
finance expended. Let us take part in
them for their own value, not as a substi-
tute for diplomacy or defence. Action
by the United Nations is hampered by
the veto and by the balance of forces in
the General Assembly. Should we stop
selling wheat to China? Not at all, but
we must never get ourselves into the
position where such sales affect our ap-
preciation of the political or military
situations or our capacity or desire to
pursue military or diplomatic policies in
our best strategic interest.
Tt has been patently clear for a long
time that we do not have an adequate
defence capacity. We are not in a posi-
tion to buy Polaris submarines equipped
with nuclear missiles, and there seems no
good reason why we should make our-
selves more certainly into a nuclear tar-
get by putting on our soil an American
nuclear delivery capacity, of a kind which
the submarine has largely made obsolete.
Perhaps we could develop for ourselves
the parallel technology of nuclear wea-
pons, so that if necessary, we could quite
quickly obtain a military nuclear capa-
city. All noticeable gaps in our de-
fences should be filled as soon as possible:
a shortage of men in the Army’s field
force, and of air transports to move
them; a wider radar screen in our north,
manned (as Darwin at last is) at week-
ends as well as during the week; an
adequate naval strike capacity; and an
air strike force to tide us over the four
or five years until the TFX is operational.
The United States and Britain still


m
Ur
mmi |
■■:
>»>
ORIANDO
HOCK
i >**• !. <: a l>Ut
; •••*•' • « »fcsb«*t f>t T« «0«* *
! S. Pitm
t *** ••*»' et>ur«
f: il.'iiltt «?.
NOW...
AN EXCITINGLY DELICATE
NEW
WHITE WINE
FIRST RELEASE
ORLANDO bin i
MIAMBA HOCK
Here is an exciting addition to the
fine range of distinctive Orlando
Table Wines. It’s a light, refreshing
hock with an engaging piquancy*
fruity bouquet and crisp, clean finish.
Available only in New South Wales,
Victoria and South Australia.
T-
Melb. & Syd. Met.
Bottle Dept. Price
6'9
Adelaide Met.
Bottle Dept.
Price
Vintaged and bottled in the famous Barossa
Valley by G. Gramp and Sons Pty. Ltd.
stand between us and China. The United
States has committed itself to aiding us
if necessary against Indonesia; and our
diplomacy is, and should be, directed to
helping both Britain and America to stay
in the region, complementing and as-
sisting their defence effort with our own.
Yet these are at best negative measures,
essential though they are. We must also
work to more positive ends educating
many more Australians into a greater
understanding of Chinese languages,
kterature, society and politics; expanding
personal contacts; taking diplomacy away
from the Australian Wheat Board and
giving it to the Department of External
Affairs —or at least making sure that
External Affairs and Trade work to-
gether; attempting modestly but hope-
fully, where we can, to encourage in-
dividual Chinese to break out of their
ideological prison and see the world as
it is, and to encourage the Chinese Gov-
ernment to ease itself, without too much
kicking and splashing, into the main-
st'eam of international relations. For,
frightening as China may be, we cannot
ignore it; we cannot evade it.
Generation
Out of Touch
Goldwater calls for realignment
From GEORGE McGANN
in New Yeork
Before attempting to assess the
dimensions of the Republican
Party’s disastrous defeat and hazard
a guess as to its future, it might be well
to look back on its recent past for a clue
to the causes of the political tidal wave
which overwhelmed Senator Goldwater’s
candidacy on November 3 and swept
President Lyndon Johnson into the White
House for his first four-year term by the
most awesome majority in American
history.
It must be emphasised that the Re-
publicans have not been able to elect one
of their political professionals to the
Presidency since 1928. In 1932 Franklin
Roosevelt won the first of his four terms
against four different Republican oppo-
nents. In 1945 Harry Truman succeeded
to the White House upon Roosevelt’s
death and won the election on his own
in 1948, defeating Thomas E. Dewey in
a classical close victory. It is true that
General Dwight Eisenhower won two
terms as the Republican nominee but he


Safety, security and
peace of mind...
In one word, CHUBB. The safety of documents and valuables both
from threat of theft and fire, is assured by Chubb security equipment. In the
leading Banking and Government Offices of the world, and in countless
thousands of businesses, both large and small, you will find safes, record
protection files and strongrooms designed and built by Chubb. Today there
are Chubb safes and record protection files in many different sizes, and with
many different specifications. One thing is constant . . . Chubb insistence of
quality. Examine your security equipment position. Are your records,
your valuables really safe? Contact Chubb and check your overall security.’
STRONGROOMS • FIRE-RESISTING FILES • SAFES • COIN COUNTERS
CHUBB’S AUSTRALIAN CO. LTD.
164-166 Clarence Street, Sydney. Phone 29-4911.
Eyre Chambers, Eyre Place, Canberra. Phone 9-0013.
Also at MELBOURNE • BRISBANE » ADELAIDE • PERTH
was not a career politician and was not
even known to be a Republican before he
undertook his first campaign in 1952.
President Truman had actually urged the
war hero to run for the Presidency on
the Democratic ticket in 1952, before
Ike made known his Republican prefer-
ence. Then came John F. Kennedy’s
victory over Richard Nixon in 1960, in
an election rendered close mainly by the
hidden issue of Kennedy’s Catholic faith
and by Ike's fervent endorsement of
Nixon as his political heir.
It is plain, therefore, that the Republi-
cans have been out of touch with the
basic aspirations of the American
people for more than a generation and
their spokesmen have often admitted it.
After this most recent debacle elder
Statesman Eisenhov/er called upon the
Party to alter “the false image of Re-
publicanism which far too long has con-
fused so many of our citizens and led
them to think of it as a political doctrine
designed primarily for the rich and pri-
vileged”.
After the defeat of Dewey by Truman
in 1948, Republican National Chairman
Hugh Scott commented bitterly of his
fellow policy-makers:
“Those mastodons wouldn't listen to
me. They had to learn their lesson. Now
maybe they’ll go out and pass some good
social legislation.” Chairman Scott's re-
ference was to the Republican Party's
firm opposition to such forward-looking
legislation as enlightened labor laws,
social security, banking and Wall Street
reforms and the entire range of new
deal and fair deal reforms which had
helped lift the country out of the trough
of the depression and set it on the road
to its present unprecedented plateau of
prosperity.
“Well-dressed, well-fed WASPS”
Republican Party has always
tended to be the Party of the WASPS
—the white Anglo-Saxon Protestants—
and this was never more evident than
during the recent campaign, when Gold-
water rallies were pure-white and lacking
in any ethnic flavor. The Republicans
have always disliked foreign accents
from the Irish brogues of the 19th cen-
tury immigrants, to the Jewish, Puerto
Rican and Negro accents of this century.
Republicans, well-dressed and well-fed,
have always acted as though they were
members of a private club, as indeed so
many of them have always been, and
really enjoyed talking only to each other.
Their most serious defect, however, has
been their isolation from the intellectual
community, as evidenced by the Gold-
waterites’ aversion to “eastern egg-heads”.
In matters of foreign policy, the Re-
publicans have similarly misjudged the
temper of the people. They took the
country out of the League of Nations
after World War I (breaking President
Wilson’s heart), and they opposed lend-
lease and other preparedness measures
undertaken by Franklin Roosevelt prior
to World War 11. They insisted upon
precipitate demobilisation and destruction
of the magnificent American war machine
following that war, despite the looming
threats of Communist Russia and China,
and dragged their feet when President
Truman instituted “police action” against
Communist aggressors in Korea in 1950.
Through depression and war years and
in piping times of peace the Republicans
have consistently misread the true temper
of the American people. Never more
so, however, than in the momentous issue
of Negro rights. In the face of a veri-
table Negro revolution and with full
knowledge that twenty millions of their
fellow Americans were no longer con-
tent with second-class , citizenship, the
Republicans nominated for the Presi-
dency a Senator who had voted against
the Civil Rights Bill of 1964.


The World’s FASTEST METAL
There’s no tougher job for hose than
handling mineral sands. Goodyear handies
it better than any other hose in the world.
Abrasion rides high as mineral sands grind their way from
sea-bed to concentrate plant. Day in, day out millions of tons
of sand travel through Goodyear Material Conducting Hose.
Because of their outstanding endurance, their amazing longevity
under rubber-rending pressure, Goodyear Material Conducting
Hoses are chosen by the Associated Minerals Group. Through
Goodyear hose comes the vital materials to send the world's
fastest planes hurtling through the sky.
1
- v
Twenty ft length of 8 in. Material Conducting Hose operating on
the dredge line of Associated Minerals Consolidated Ltd., Cudgen,
N.S.W., plant.
travels through
GOODYEAR
HOSE
The United States has announced the
development of the super jet, the Lock-
heed A-11. This top-secret aircraft,
years ahead of even the TFX, is con-
structed mainly of titanium. Major source
of titanium is rutile and Australia has
almost 90 per cent of world supplies.
Goodyear comes right into the picture
with the important part Goodyear hoses
play in the reclamation of this important
mineral.
: ;
Material Conducting Hose with integral
flanges on the tailings line of the plant.
For full information on Goodyear Industrial Products,
contact Goodyear Industrial Products Division, at the Goodyear Branch in your State
GOODYEAR
0189


•••
J
m*
A real live ANGEL
As the Republican vehicle lurched dan-
gerously along in the ditch, the hands of
many passengers were reaching for the
wheel. Governor Rockefeller, Governor
Scranton, Governor Romney, former
Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge and
other Republican moderates desperately
want to steer the machine back into the
middle of the road. But the defeated
candidate is keeping his grip, determined
to cling to his Right-wing course,
apparently not at all conscious that dis-
aster threatened the Republican Party.
Vowing to fight to keep Goldwater
people in firm control of the Republican
National Committee —notably Chairman
Dean Burch Senator Goldwater has
called for “realignment” of the tradi-
tional Republican and Democratic
Parties into “two new teams”, to be
called the Liberals and the Conservatives.
Speaking to the Press at his post-election
holiday retreat in Montego Bay, Jamaica,
the Arizona Senator condemned moder-
ates Rockefeller and Romney and the
rest as “so-called Republicans” who had
brought about the Party’s defeat through
failure to support the Goldwater-Miller
national ticket. Goldwater lauded
Burch's role in the Presidential campaign
and said he would support the Chairman
when he comes up for election by the
National Committee for a four-year
term in January. Other Republican
voices immediately were raised in con-
demnation of Burch and the Goldwater
wing of the Party. The immediate
future of the Republican Party might well
hang on the result of this battle for
control of the National Committee.
Henry Cabot Lodge’s was the first
dissident voice raised against the Gold-
water call for political realignment. Such
a move would be “totally abhorrent to
the American two-party system”, replied
Lodge, “and would be going back to the
old ideological parties of Europe and
would be most unfortunate”. Lodge
stated that “the Republican Party has to
get back to being the party of Abraham
Lincoln and very quickly get back”, by
calling a meeting to draw up a new
Party Platform for the next election with
a strong Civil Rights plank. Governor
Rockefeller echoed Lodge’s views, advo-
cating retention of the existing two-
Party system—“and it’s essential that
both parties remain in the mainstream”.
Rockefeller was one of the principal cri-
tics, before and after San Francisco, of
Goldwater’s “extremism”.
A one and one-half party
HThe decisive showdown between the
Goldwater Right-wing forces and the
Party moderates probably could not come
before the National Committee meeting
in Washington on January 10. Mean-
while many thoughtful Republicans were
looking to the future and the modernising
of their Party along lines acceptable to
a majority of the American people.
Realistically, the heart of Republican
strength and the only source of possible
resurgence lay in Congress, the principal
forum of the minority Party for reach-
ing the public and its only effective means
for policy-making during the coming
bleak years. The problem is that the
existing Republican Congressional leader-
ship is associated with the Goldwater
defeat while the moderate leadership re-
mains outside, mainly in the State
Governors’ mansions. Those who Would
provide the Republican Party with a
bright new image have their work cut out
for them. Meanwhile with twice as
many Democratic Governors as Republi-
cans now in power, with twice as many
Democratic Congressmen in Washington
and with the electorate divided in roughly
the same proportion, the country would
have to function for the next four years
not with a two-party system but more
acurately with a one and one-half party
system.


The Followers
A SHORT STORY BY HAL PORTER
Port Kalimna was, for the greater, cooler part of the year, a fishing port, and no more. Most of
its males farmed the self-sown paddocks of the ocean; their eyes and nostrils were so skilled in
prophecy that neither the subtlest nor the most outrageous antic of weather, tide or current
caught any of them napping. Much of the time, clouds and winds waxed and waned as to a time-
table; tides conventionally mounted, and circumspectly withdrew, at a foretold hour; the traw-
lers put out placidly as suburban trains, and came punctually back to harbor. Meantime, the
town itself, a community too small for secrets or fake sins, found its workaday life enriched
by meagre triumphs, run-of-the-mill calamities, and artless scandals. In the town, as on the sands
of the beach, the tides rose, the tides fell.
Come summer, there were other tides.
These came from inland, and were of
flesh and blood. Port Kalimna prepared
for them. Desiccated blowflies and
bleached showcards disappeared from the
windows of shops empty for months.
Scruffy signposts in the caravan park
and camping grounds were repainted.
The lobster stalls and ice cream kiosks
pushed up their shutters, and hung out
striped awnings. In the van of the tide
from the inner land were the trucks
bringing the hoop-la stalls, the boxing
marquee, the merry-go-round. It became
summer. Port Kalirtina was a Popular
Tourist Resort; the fishermen were An
Attraction; the wharves became Pro-
menades, the ocean and the beach An
Investment. The shrewd townspeople
were ready for the holiday-makers, and
so were we three boys.
Living, day in, day out, in that fishing
port with its one school, we three had
not been able to avoid knowing each
other, sidelong and negligently, for ever,
that is, since we were six. Finally, circa
12, we coalesced as cobbers. This was
partly, no doubt, because our fathers
■ —a carpenter, a newsagent, a school-
teacher —were not fishermen. We had
also, however, a number of idiosyncrasies
in common. High-pitched, garrulous,
devious, at one and the same time
puritanical and unmoral, we shared one
effervescent soul as sharing one umbrella.
Almost weekly, we relabelled ourselves:
The Three Musketeers, The Trinity, The
Three-headed Boy, The Triumvirate,
Three Boys in a Boat. Restless as
Satans, we ranged the port and its
environs with the stealth and speed of
cats. Our faces, like the faces of cats
—those faces of fate—were to be seen
everywhere, and always together.
We rowed and fished in the narrow
lake behind the sand-dunes; swam in the
ocean beyond the dunes; cheeked the
fishermen; tormented the Aborigines
from the corrugated-iron humpies on
the port’s sordid rim; perfected smoking,
and swearing, and fruit-stealing from the
two-by-four orchards attached to the
guest houses on the hills behind the
port; broke into holiday bungalows reek-
ing of mouldy cretonne and mice-
droppings; committed sumless “boyish”
crimes behind a smoke-screen of Sunday
School hypocrisy, and dead-pan lies. We
had one vice, a champagne one, a
summertime one, for which we titled
ourselves The Three Followers, for it
was the vice of following people, of
spying on chosen innocents. The idea
was to catch our prey in some off-
guard moment. It was scarcely any
more than a mere game of Candid
Camera, a sort of petty non-sexual
voyeurisme, but we played it seriously.
It was important not to be discovered
at our following which gave us pleasure
without remorse, frisson without the
hangover of regret.
Tn summer, then, the port was flooded
A with our special victims: trippers,
caravanners, campers, working-class
Grandfather Spindleshanks in shorts,
Mr Pot-Belly in bathers, Mother Broad-
Bottom in bargain-sale slacks, factory-
hand lover-boys granulated with acne,
and shop-girls unblushingly parading in
bikinis their bodily imperfections or
exquisite immaturities. We shadowed
this one, that one, the other one, fervently
hoping to catch them socially un-
buttoned: talking to themselves, privately
grimacing in the looking-glasses which
advertised out-of-date pilseners in
buckled gilt on the bar-doors of the
Seaview Hotel; dropping their sunglasses
on the Esplanade bitumen; stubbing
their peanut-shaped toes; grotesquely
hobbling, over-grilled and sandfly-
tortured, across prickles and polyangular
pebbles, to their impermanent and jerry-
built holiday nests ringed about by
fluted cardboard plates, empty spaghetti-
and-tomato-sauce tins, and cracked Wool-
worth tumblers of plastic.
That summer the radiant summer
we achieved 13—was, however, barely
half-used when, instead of running others
to earth in ludicrous mishaps and un-
seemly retreats, we found that we had,
as it were, run ourselves to earth. Our
vice had become an 'obsession. We
hunted a single fabulous animal only.
Our faces of fate quivered at one spoor,
and no other. These alluring tracks
were not those of a tripper-, but of some-
one we had heedlessly overlooked for
years, Minka, the daughter of Rosalie
Maie.
Rosalie Maie was Mrs Mavis Skipper,
the port’s Beautician and Hair Styliste,
a spike-heeled, agate-eyed widow with
immobile, apparently hand-carved, hair.
She must, indubitably, have worked as
busily as a witch in the tourist season,
pecking with her inch-long vermilion
fingernails into the salt-charged manes
of suburban visitors until all hours of
the night. In slacker seasons, when
Port Kalimna was once again a mere
fishing port, she was often noticeable,
shrill, with her eyes skew-whiff, teetering
from the chrome-and-plastic lounge of
the Seaview Hotel in the company of a


Some
people
still
think
Air-lndia
flies
only
from
Sydney
to
London
and
New York.
Fortunately,
lots
of
people
know
Air-lndia
also
flies
to
Fiji
Paris
Frankfurt
Geneva
Rome
Prague
Cairo
Beirut
Bahrein
Aden
Nairobi
Moscow
Kuwait
Karachi
Bombay
New Delhi
Madras
Calcutta
Bangkok
Singapore
Djakarta
Hong Kor/g
Tokyo
and
Perth, Australia*
Which
is
hardly
Surprising
when
you
consider
we’ve
been
flying
for
82 years.
A/R’/ND/A
The airline that treats you like a Maharajah
In association with BOAC andQantas.
A 138.102
succession of loud men, each wearing
a drip-dry nylon shirt, each with a badge
of some sort on his lapel, each carry-
ing a carton of bottles of beer which he
put in the back seat of his car among
his samples and order-sheets. Rosalie
Maie sat in the front, lit a cigarette
from the half-cigarette she was smoking,
and tried to turn on the car wireless.
Her suddenly dazzling daughter,
Minka Skipper, must, that summer, have
been sixteen.
I>efore that summer, before Minka, we
had only rarely considered follow-
ing inhabitants of the port. They were,
to us, as uninteresting as lettuce; their
imperfections and whims were flavor-
less; we already knew, indeed, more
about them than we knew about our-
selves. Nevertheless, foxes, at length,
finish up at the furrier’s.
Now, the Minka Skipper we had
known as a scraggy schoolgirl was
translated into all the imagined patterns
of haunting femininity . . . nereid of an
ocean lapping the bunions of tourists,
dryad of the Esplanade tamarisks shading
the wire Be Tidy baskets, sylph of the
hamburger-scented air, oread of the hills
infested with weather-board guest hous-
es. How could we not follow her, shad-
ow her, haunt her? She was ours. Just as,
earlier, we three had discovered and
accepted each other, so, now, together,
we had discovered and accepted her.
Looking back, with the telescope held
the right way, it is all too easy oh, all
too easy to see that she was merely
a part-pretty bitch, a morning glory of a
creature, any passerby’s creature. None
of this was, a + that time, apparent to us.
We used the telescope the other way.
There, divinely there, flawless in the
ugly throng, Goddess Minka strolled,
making languid gestures whose very
meaninglessness was sacred.
It can be said of too many travellers
that they return from abroad having
seen only what they understand. So
with us. We saw only what we under-
stood: a Minka like the cuties of comic
strips, and the barely nubile popsies of
television. Everything was recognisably
there, tip-tilted nose, penny-wide eyes,
long legs, immaterial hips, pliant waist,
the two perfectly matched and semi-
spherical protuberances we were too
reverent to call by name. Everything
was as fashionable as her suntan, and
her hair which, whether by Rosalie
Maie or the arc-light weather, was
parti-colored, blotched with whitish gilt,
mottled with beige.
This was the flambeau we followed
through the ice-cream-licking hordes, or
sought on the beach, or in the Bamboo
Espresso Bar. This following seemed of
the simplest sort but brought into play
subtleties of discretion, and ingenuity of
the most mathematically shaded and
delicate kind, We were professionals. We
contrived to be splashing in the waves
near her; to be rolling and lying in the
shallows when she was; to sprawl on the
sands close by, so that we could covert-
ly watch young men stroking away with
the tenderest consequential slowness the
film of sand from her polished shins.
There was always a young man; always
a different young man. Usually, he
pleased and gratified us, for, with Min-
ka, we had forgotten utterly that, once,
we had hunted like cats to eavesdrop on
the moment of self-exposure. Our claws
were now sheathed. We wore the gloves
of infatuation. Gloved cats catch no
mice. Since she was, to us, that summer,
the most perfect of beings, and possess-
ed of power (had she not enthralled us?),
we were not jealous of her companions.
We were, in fact, honored that perfec-
tion and power did not misuse them-
selves. Minka matched herself: each
young man was, as she was, in the
mode. He was bronzed, muscular, wore
sun-glasses with striking rims, was us-
ually peroxided blond, and invariably in
possession of a camera, a transistor wire-
less, and a vast towel of some vibrating
color.
Minka’s public forte was languor, and
a muteness only occasionally broken by
wordless murmurings. She drifted, float-
ed, moved like a sleepwalker. On the
beach, or in the depressions of the
dunes, she lazed prone, while a young
man disentangled his fingers from hers,
changed the wireless so that there was
always music, and entangled fingers
again.
Tn the evenings, we watched her on the
open-air dance-floor, under the fairy-
lights and the constellations they out-
glittered. Here, she revolved and floated
and gracefully writhed and languidly un-
dulated. Now and again, for we were as
needle-eyed as duennas, we saw her in
the arms of someone we disapproved of
for any of a number of reasons: hair too
long or too short, suntan too wishy-washy,
sideburns too loutishly exaggerated. We
watched anxiously to see, and were elat-
ed to see, that this faltering of sensibil-
ity in our goddess was momentary, a
defection lasting no more than one
dance, and that she returned to the arms
of a young man more correctly stylish.
Our fear was that from among the many
men she wore, she might choose as a
more permanent ornament someone
short or over-hairy or skinny or bandy
or old old meaning more than 23 or
24.
As summer wore on, what we had
wished and prayed to happen happened.
She chose a persisting mate, and one we
would have chosen ourselves. He was
our idea of handsome and manly and
wealthy; the glittering rusty frizzle of
hair on his chest was perfectly triangu-


lar and tastefully disposed; his transistor
wireless was as small as a matchbox; his
towel was the yellowest yellow garnish-
ed by a giant black footprint; he had a
surf-board, and a white sports car; he
whirled and glided with Minka beneath
the fairy-lights in a style we approved,
and wearing attire that had our sanc-
tion. Since reality and error were what
we did not ask of our dream no sun-
blistered shoulders or stubbed toes for
Minka this mating of matchlessness
doubled our dream, and dashed a par-
aph under beauty. Let him linger here
for ever, we could have prayed. Let
summer never end.
Summer began to end. Different shells
appeared on the tide-lines. The merry-
go-round faltered dead; its horses turned
to mere wood, to lumber, were stacked
in a truck, and driven off to another
summer somewhere norther. The waves,
a fortnight before, a week before, worth
guineas, became colder, sloppier, kelp-
ridden, worth no more than shillings.
The Bamboo Espresso Bar, the lobster
stalls, the ice cream kiosks shut down.
The tourists fled the plague of early
autumn. With their petulant and des-
perate hullabaloo gone, that most
popular of winds, the wind in the guest-
house pines, began to be heard. A
deeper green burned up from the depths
of the ocean, a more sombre green
stained with a history of wrecks, and
lost seamen, and drowned fishermen,
and pioneer women foundered with
prayer books in hand, and thimbles on
their fingers. The white flivver, speed-
ing late at night, turned over in the hills
behind the port. He, Minka’s mate,
was killed. He had lingered a drive too
many, a tune too long. Who would
use the yellow towel with its death-black
footprint? His companion, said The
Port Herald, Miss Minka Skipper, the
16-year-old daughter of Mrs Mavis
Skipper of the Rosalie Maie Beauty
Salon, escaped with shock and abrasions.
11/ - r: waited. What we waited for was
” nothing shocking: only the better
half of worse had happened. Minka was
still alive. Fate had enriched her. It
was this enrichment we ached to see
appearing again from out of the
mysterious shadows of grief. Cinema
and television had prepared us for what
must surely happen next. One late
sunset or early twilight, the seagulls
keening, the wind fretful, we followers
would come upon her, dressed in black,
her eyes magnified under a lens of tears,
standing in a trance of anguish at the
ocean’s ultimate fringe. Just as her
tragic immobility shuddered into move-
ment, and her feet took the first steps
towards the moaning and loose-lipped
waters, we would move with the speed
of saviors . . .
When we did next see her, it was as
though we had turned the television on
to the wrong play.
It was ten o’clock at night, a cold
10 o’clock, a windy night, and all not
well. Summer was over. On our way
home from a Rechabite Meeting, we
sprinted along the Esplanade across the
bitumen of which hissed a stinging sugar
of sand. We stopped at Stavros the
Greek’s cafe for hot malted milks.
Everything else in the port might shut
down when the city-slicker Goths and
hinterland Vandals had gone, but not
Stavros’ humid and greasy cafe. Under
the fluorescents, at one of the linoleum-
topped tables, sat Rosalie Maie with
another woman, and two men who
could have been nothing but commercial
travellers. We stood at the counter to
drink our milk, and listened and saw.
It was all too patent that the quartet
with its inflamed voices and glaring eyes
and irrational laughter had been drink-
ing deep at the Seaview Hotel. They
splashed Worcestershire Sauce on their
fish and chips, and coarsely chivvied
Stavros for another pot of tea, for more
curls of butter. Knives were dropped.
Milk was spilt. Rosalie Maie nagged
on and on for Aspros.
All this diminished us, as the carry-
ings-on of semi-lunatics might: we
finished our drinks in silence, contemp-
tuously, and as quickly as possible. As
we left, as we reached the fly-wire door,
it was open.
There was one of the half-caste
Aborigines from the corrugated-iron
kennels on the outskirts of the port, a
young blackfellow who now and then
worked with the fishermen, and who had
earned enough, anyway, somehow, to be
dressed to kill in mediaevally pointed
shoes, green trousers tightly enclosing
his legs, and a zippered blouse-like jacket
in burgundy-colored mock suede. His
eyes were black oil; his side-burns slanted
far below his dark ear-lobes; his dark
hand, masculine, possessing, was clasped
masterfully in the hand of her whom he
drew into the cafe.
She—it was Minka—with her other
hand, the*hand not committed to dark-
ness and spivvery, continued to hold
back the door, carelessly polite, so that
we could pass out like trespassing and
dumb-struck animals into the ocean-
wind, pass out under her offhand smile,
under her eyes that could not be said
to see us, and could never, had they
really seen us, have translated us from
three mongrel-like boys into servants-
and-saviors-to-be, into three knights with
shattered hearts, behind whose horror
at her tearlessness and shameful calm,
the skeleton door of wire gauze slapped-
to with the decisiveness of the iron
portals of the Underworld. Outside, we
stood, not yet able to move and flee,
not able yet to speak and say, on the
crack between the past and the future.
What rhymes on earth rhymes also in
Hell —from within Stavros’ garish and
sour cafe with its wincing fluorescents,
burst the railing of women, of mother
and daughter, of Rosalie Maie and
Minka.
If we had turned on the wrong play,
we had not caught the actresses at a
loss.
li/fE, who had never really heard Minka
before, now heard beauty shril-
ling venomously, “Don’t ya tell me wot
t’do! Don’t ya pick on me, ya ugly
bitch! Ya not fit t'be a mother, not fit!
Commercial travellers’ sweet'eart, that's
wot you are! Don’t ya pick on me!”
We heard the mother too: “Don’t you
dare speak to me like that! Your own
mother! I’ll slap ya face, ya dirty slut!
You and your abo boy-friend! You and
ya half-caste bodgie! Blackfeller’s slut
. . . that’s wot you bloody are . . .
blackfeller’s slut!”
So, with the naked steel of their
tongues, mother and child sliced and
slashed, while the others stuck mute.
Then the door sprang violently open.
The door sprang shut. She ran, she
ran, she whom we had shadowed drift-
ing and lazing through summer. She
ran, and the half-caste ran with her
and the half-caste ran with her, pluck-
ing at her, as he ran and ran, with his
black hand—along the Esplanade, past
all the dead shops, under the neons of
the Seaview Hotel.
The running slackened.
They stopped.
We saw them wind each an arm about
the other’s body. They may have kissed:
their forms fused. They left the metallic
roadway and the municipal street moons
on their iron stalks, and passed through
the delirious shadows of the tamarisks,
into the grooves of the dunes, into the
dark, dark hollows above which the
ocean-wind icily and ruthlessly toyed
with the tussocks and the salt-stiff
anatomies of sun-dried bushes.
Followers, we followed to the base of
the dunes, and no farther. As we stood
there, panting, ankle-deep in the chill
and hissing sand, we knew, without a
word of consultation, what we had to
do, for, summer gone, we had turned
towards being men. We flung our acrid
voices into the acrid wind which, as it
dived and lashed about in many direc-
tions like Medusa’s adders must certainly
have, scattered down into the sandy fox-
holes many and most of our cries, for we
continued to make them even when our
throats were scorched and seared, and felt
as if they bled internally:
“Abo's slut! Blackfellow’s slut. Abo’s
slut! Blackfellow’s slut!”
Being men, being of the world, we
cried out again and again and again,
agonised by the knowledge that, even
if we were wrong, we were right.


AROUND MELBOURNE
Oh, Bondi! Oh, Surfers! Oh, OH, St. Kilda!
Sydney,
I have written often to you of our
efforts to maintain the innocence and
purity of our Melbourne despite the
constant wickedness that is so openly
shown in your city. And that, of course,
is another of our troubles.
You have heard already that Starliner
Coaches is now running a Saturday
“Night Club Jaunt of Wicked Sydney”.
The coach leaves the Southern Cross
hotel on Friday evening and drives all
night to arrive in Sydney on Saturday
morning. That night the coach picks
them up from their hotel and they do
all the juiciest strip joints in the Cross,
getting to bed about 3 a.m. Starliner
gives them some hours to recover then
sets back for home about noon, arriving
in Melbourne in the early morning, giving
them just a few hours rest before work
on Monday. All inclusive price £2l. Oh,
Sydney, can you imagine anyone putting
in so much effort, travelling 1000 miles
and paying £2l just to get away from
the gentle sweetness of Melbourne?
But it is good to be able to tell you
that we are improving all the time. The
Victorian Federation of Catholic
Mothers’ Club, a strong organisation of
18,000 Catholic mothers, has asked 19
councils to ban all bikinis from bayside
beaches this summer. The Federation’s
secretary, Mrs Mary Cullen said: “We
definitely think that bikinis lower the
resistance of young people to temptation,
and contribute to immorality. I can’t see
anything attractive about bikinis. In my
opinion they expose an ugly part of the
body.” Mrs C. Hamilton said “we believe
that abbreviated bikinis lead to sexual
attacks and offences and that they put
grave and strong temptations which could
lead to immorality in the way of teen-
age boys and girls. We hope something
will be done to protect the morals of the
younger generation and parents of to-
morrow.”
Sydney, my friend, this was very
damaging stuff. The Catholic Mothers
made it clear also that they would write
to all bikini manufacturers to halt produc-
tion for the sake of decency. Yet, curi-
ously enough, to date they have not
made much progress in this regard. In-
deed, on the very day that this con-
troversy was exposed Myers was running
full page ads in the newspapers. Could I
bore you with some of the copy?
“On parade in our sun’n surf shop . . .
THE BAREST BODIES ON THE
BEACH. Lap up the sun in these saucy
little Ada bikinis. Be a dare devil! Show
otf that brown body in the cutest little
2-piecer. Ada’s caught on to the idea . . .
turned out teeny bikinis by the score!
Cheeky checked cotton, pretty printed
tetoron that dries in a wink. All prettied
up with lace trims, frills, bows and dainty
ruched self trims. Parades today.” So
you see, men didn’t even have to go to
Elwood, Brighton or St Kilda. They could
see saucy little brown bodies right there
in Bourke Street on Tuesday, Thursday
and Friday at 11.30 a.m. 12.10, 1.10 and
2.10 p.m.
And if that wasn’t enough, Hickory
ran a few ads which even disturbed me.
The copy said: “Hickory’s darling dare-
top swoops low or plunges deep prettily
but securely to underline your most
dramatic fashion necklines in years. Dare-
top is pretty as a picture, gives you in-
visibly, exactly, the shape (and the
security) you need, no matter how your
new neckline swoops or plunges.”
rpHE battle, you will be interested to
A hear, became the major news story for
the week. Some quite remarkable names
came out for bikinis. Lady Nathan said:
“I think it’s a lot of nonsense. What on
earth would other countries think of us
if we started banning bikinis.” Googie
Withers said: “Bikinis look wonderful
on a young figure. I wouldn’t think of
stopping my daughter Joanna, 14, from
wearing one.” But the most powerful
voice in favor was Mrs Ron Barassi. She
said: “All the fuss is just ridiculous
and Ron thinks so too.” You can only
imagine the strength of a statement like
that here, from the wife of the captain
of Melbourne, the League Premiers. Re-
grettably just when we needed them so
badly the politicians were unhelpful.
Chief Secretary Mr Rylah: “No com-
ment.” The Premier, Mr Bolte: “It de-
pends on her figure.” Opposition leader,
Mr Stoneham: “It is a question of good
taste and observance of standards of
decency. I would not like to see a total
ban I think that would be taking it
too far.” Country Party leader, Mr Moss:
“No comment.”
Days went by then Mrs Cullen of the
Catholic Mothers reported that she had
received many letters and calls of en-
couragement. For example Mr J. F. Dy-
non, first president of the Loreto Federa-
tion of Australia said: “As beaches are
used by men, women and children of all
ages a modern standard of decency
should be laid down and enforced in
the general interest. I expect legislation
to uphold reasonable standards of de-
cency.” Miss John Shinners, secretary
of the Young Christian Workers Girls
Movement, said: “We support the
Federation because we feel that young
girls and women should realise their dig-
nity and have respect for their own
person.”
As for the councils, it is terribly awk-
ward. Good strong councils like the
South Barwon Shire have pointed out
that they are worried about the trend
to near nudity on the beach and they will
ask their local members to make repre-
sentations to the Chief Secretary. Many
want to pass the buck like that. You see,
practically all the councils have magnifi-
cent by-laws which never have been
changed. These call for single-piece
costumes, chest entirely covered with no
more than 3-inch holes under the arms.
Furthermore, all costumes should have a
skirt and, at the very least, three-inch
legs. If only these by-laws were enforc-
ed we would have no more trouble.
What will happen now is anybody’s
guess. One bikini manufacturer already
has announced that he intends to double
production. The publicity, he feels, is the
finest thing that has happened in many
years. On the other hand, naturally, bus
companies would like to see the ban
enforced. Imagine the future trade to be
had with Saturday jaunts to bold Bondi
and monstrous Manly. Or perhaps the
airlines would charter special excursions
to the Gold Coast. After all, I have just
read that Lennons Broadbeach has
opened a Bikini Bar. The walls are
covered with selected pictures of girls in
bikinis and, worst of all, the barmaid is
young, pretty and also dressed in a bikini.
Oh, dear Sydney, I’m terribly worried
over the way things are shaping.
Yours ever,
BATMAN


Letters to the Editor
“Folkies” v. Charles Higham
Since Charles Higham’s survey of Australian folk singing (“The
Folk People ) in THE BULLETIN, November 14, has aroused so
much controversy in folk-singing circles, THE BULLETIN this
week gives the whole of its Letters to the Editor pages to “the
folkies’’ and their criticisms of the article.
SIR.—Mr Charles Higham’s cover story
“The Folk People” (Bulletin,
14/11/64), with all its insinuations and
implications of dirt (political and the
ordinary variety) would have been an
extremely funny piece of journalese
except for the way in which he chose
to print fragmentary phrases from para-
graph-length answers given to some of
his questions in order (I presume) to
carry insinuation a bit further. And to
throw the suppositional stink of a folk
music “red herring” right up the nose
tubes of your readers, The Bulletin
followed up Mr Higham’s article one
page later with Mr Fred Wells’ splendid
piece of McCarthyism entitled “Up the
Reedy River —No Peace with Pops”. I
thank God that folk music journals do
not deem it necessary to devote so much
time and space to proving the possibility
that those who earn their living via the
pages of The Bulletin are so far right
their left sides have withered.
I would like to correct some extremely
erroneous impressions created by Mr
Higham in paragraphs of his article
which quoted myself on the subjects of
defence and Christianity. On the subject
of my song of the Voyager disaster I am
quoted as follows: “. . . It gets across the
idea that if we do away with the navy
there won’t be any more Voyager dis-
asters because there won’t be any ships
to sink . . .” “The Navy” here (singular)
implies the Australian Navy alone. In
actual fact I spent considerable time ex-
plaining to Mr Higham that “The
Voyager” song was written two days
after the disaster out of a complete feel-
ing of helplessness and frustration that
eighty-two men had lost their lives re-
hearsing for this thing called war which
was supposed to have ended twenty years
ago for all time. I am (as Mr Higham
stated) a pacifist and I do believe in, and
hope and pray for, total world disarma-
ment. But I am not pacifistically idiotic
enough to believe that the abolition of
my own country’s defence system alone
is going to achieve anything if our next
door neighbor has almost as much equip-
ment and nine times the population. A
line from the Voyager song says . . . “that
ships must sail the seas for peace before
another dies”, meaning, the ships (and
the seas they sail upon) of the world’s
navies.
I have never written (as Mr Higham
stated) a song about a girl getting off a
train to go to the toilet and being
murdered. I informed Mr Higham that
at the time of his interview with me I
was working on a song to the memory
of a migrant girl who could not speak or
write English and who left a train at
Macdonaldtown station to go to the toilet.
Her husband was travelling with her but
before he could follow her off the train
it left the platform, leaving the girl alone
and penniless and unable to tell anyone
of her plight. Presumably doing the
only thing she could think of to find her
husband she walked off the platform and
along the tracks in the direction the train
was travelling. She was killed by another
train. I am still working on that song—
no ‘ protest”—just an extra sadness for
two people I never knew.
Mr Higham goes on to quote me with:
“Santamaria tore me to shreds in his
newspaper for my Voyager song, he said
my forefathers died on the Kokoda Trail
and I was betraying them, but I don’t
care . . .” It is a great pity that Mr
Higham chose not to conclude my reply
on the subject otherwise your readers
may have learnt that I do care very
much. If my memory (and some notes
I made following the interview) serves
me correctly my full reply on the subject
should have read:
“. . . Santamaria’s Catholic News-
weekly tore my Voyager song to shreds.
"Self-opinionated humbug, yes. Genius, no!"


HI It I SSI
wzzimmmrz
ft
...have a Hennessy Cognac
. . . it’s an international pleasure
Around the world, Hennessy Cognac is the
civilised name for pleasure. Eight generations of
loving care give Hennessy Cognac its noble dif-
ference. Now, as always, “Have a Hennessy
Cognac!” is part of every important man’s
language.
For memorable occasions . . .
Hennessy VSOP—and on very
special occasions . . . XO.
N.S.W. Agents: Gollin St Co. Ltd.
Harbottle, Brown 8t Co. Pty. Ltd.
All other States: Gollin St Co. Ltd.
m
He said my forefathers died on the
Kokoda Trail and 1 was betraying them,
but I don’t care what they say! Surely
we know by now that wars must be a
thing of the past and that future infringe-
ments and squabbles must be settled by
international conference and not inter-
national sling-shot games with ballistic
missiles. A stockpile of 320 billion mega-
tons of TNT in nuclear weapons is proof
enough. And if Mr Santamaria can
believe that I can forget that six hundred
Australians died in the battle for the
Kokoda Trail in defence of my life and
my country, then that is his prerogative.”
And finally, a further quote from Mr
Higham: “. . . My other bugaboo is
religion or anyway, Christianity.”
“. . . and I want people to stop clinging
to outmoded Christian beliefs.” My only
comment to Mr Higham on the subject
of religion was with regard to denomina-
tional values detracting from the overall
purpose of the Christian faith, and I ex-
pressed the hope for greater denomina-
tional unity in the future. I also told Mr
Higham that I had been approached by
a minister of the Methodist faith in
Sydney to collaborate with him and put
his own ideas on Christian unity into
song form. I don’t think this bears out
Mr Higham’s implication that “I want
people to stop clinging to outmoded
Christian beliefs”.
If any of your readers care (or would
Mr Higham use the word “dare”) to visit
any of the coffee houses at which I per-
form in Sydney, I can assure them I
don’t spend an entire evening’s per-
formance “protesting” myself and all the
other unwashed. In fact we have a pretty
good time singing songs from the four
corners of the earth as well as countless
dozens of traditional Australian folk
songs, thereby, we hope, doing something
toward bringing this vital part of the
Australian heritage back to the Aus-
tralian people. And time marches on:
Left. Right. Left, Right, LEGHT . . .
BANG!
Gary Shearston
Paddington (A'SIT).
SlR.—lnterested as I was to read Charles
Higham’s article, I wish to point out a
significant omission. The author attempts
to provide an exhaustive list of organisa-
tions and persons who have contributed
to a rational examination of the folk
folk, but fails to mention the ten-week
series of lectures organised by the
Workers’ Educational Association, titled
“The Folk Song Revival” under the
tutorship of Dr Edgar Waters. This
series of lectures, which sought to in-
vestigate the social forces producing the
revival of interest in folk music, to deter-
mine whether the musicians referred to
by Mr Higham produced music truly
“folk” in character, and to determine
the attitudes and moods expressed in
modern folk music, has been conducted
from September 14 onwards. Dr Waters’
course is the pioneer of its kind in Aus-
tralia, and was claimed by Mr Jim
Carter, also referred to in Mr Higham’s
article, as being “the sort of thing needed
to stabilise the folk business” in Sydney.
Don Anderson
Assistant Secretary,
Workers’ Educational Association.
New South Wales.
SIR.—In the article “The Folk People”
Charles Eligham discussed the type of
people who visited the folk “atticks” and
the attitude of some of the singers
around Sydney. Referring to the visiting
of different types of people to these
cafes I should like to say that many of
my friends think you have a complete
misunderstanding of why “we” (referring
to the public school boys) visit these
places. We listen to folk singing, not
because we have nothing to do, but
because we enjoy it. It seems by your
article that the writer must be terribly
biased against folk. This may not be
true but the impression given was so.
We like the songs and sit, maybe in some
sort of a trance, onlv because we are
taking in the words of the song, turning
them over in our minds and listening to
the tune, also.
Many of us play (or are learning to
play) guitars, etc., and by going to these
p'aces one can pick up many hints on
different strums and picks from people
better than yourself. This may be an-
other reason why some of us go to the
“atticks”. The description of these
places is true enough, but the explana-
tion is both peculiar and bewildering.
The dim lighting and the articles hang-
ing on the wall just make a perfect
atmosphere for the night’s entertainment.
Your writer is obviously biased when he
talks about the girl singer leaving the
people, and the Christ-like man with the
beard and the concave chest who wearily
THE INDEX
lndex for The Bulletin, 1963,
is now available. All articles and
reviews are indexed by author and sub-
ject, in alphabetical order, in suffi-
cient detail to allow even partially re-
membered articles to be found. Copies
may be purchased from The Bul-
letin, 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
The price is 7s. 6d. (plus 3s. sd. for
postage).


Around the World on Business?
"♦•V-A'va
%
J
\
For trouble-free travel, book thru
Elders-GM Travel Service
If you’re planning an overseas business trip, you can
wrangle over reservations, tangle over tickets, haggle
over hotels and rage over red tape, or—you can call
Elders-GM Travel Service and let us take the whole job
off your mind. For precisely planned overseas travel, why
not open your travel account with us?
ELDER SMITH
GOLDSBROUGH MORT
LIMITED
9-1 1 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
2.0138
ET/C*
picking up a banjo sings. Does it really
matter whether a singer has a concave
chest or not or whether he picks up a
banjo wearily.
Mr Higham picks out about five
singers who sing political and anti-war
songs and he then goes on to make all
folkies, except Paul Marks, perhaps, one
like this. What trash! We, as friends,
sing in the weekends, but we sing good,
solid songs with meanings behind them.
The political singing group is a minority,
I’m sure.
I was very annoyed to think that some
people of the community should read
your article and receive the impression
that we (folkies) were all like some your
magazine mentioned. I ask you to read
my letter thoroughly and see if you can
see the folk-singing from a different
angle.
Rob
Melbourne ,
SIR.—It was with some amusement and
despair that 1 read “The Folk People”
written by Charles Higham. It was
evident from the first highly colored
paragraphs that his mood was one of
mild sensationalism and myopic concen-
tration on. some of the more florid facets
of the folk scene rather than a serious
attempt at a survey of what the scene is
in actuality. The whole series of his
misconceptions has apparently been
brought about by his failure to realise
just what actually is a folksong. Like
many other people he is prepared to
accept what can only be described as
semi-urban calypsos as being true folk-
songs, when in reality they are just as
much popular songs as any being churned
from the organs of Tin Pan Alley. These
songs, call them protest songs, or songs
in the folk idiom or what-you-will, they
do not measure up to the definition given
in my dictionary. This says quite simply
■ —“traditional songs passing among the
people of a country”.
It is quite valid for Mr Higham to be
misled. So many people are, who have
not studied the matter. I am sure that
the popularity of this music which is
currently fashionable is the end result
of the tremendous beating the public (or
the folk, if you like) have received from
that same Tin Pan Alley. It is, after all,
a very difficult matter to invent a new
music to sell at least once a year, and
then to persuade people to buy it with-
out making such a frenetic din that a
proportion at least become refugees
from the noise of the transistor radio into
what can only be described as the retreat
of the simple melody and moving sim-
plicity of statement that is the traditional
song. It is also natural that people with
axes to grind, knives to whet or daggers
to point should seize upon this as they
seize upon anything with wide appeal to
; add impetus to their particular message.
So-called “folksong” has become big
business, and no doubt will be rinsed
and wrung until the last possible quid
has been squeezed from it. It is hearten-
ing to see so many young people vitally
interested in performing, at the least.
Most of the performers mentioned by
Mr Higham are simply sincere people
who love their medium of artistic ex-
pression and are fortunate in that they
are enabled to live by their art. Things
left unmentioned by Mr Higham are too
numerous, but no survey "of the folk
field could be complete without taking
them into consideration. There is the
wonderful Tea and Damper Club at the
Wattle Park Teachers’ Training College
in Adelaide, for instance. No whiskers,
emaciation or grubbiness there. Or the
Folk Centre in Brisbane, which rates
only a couple of sentences and is con-
fused with the Bush Music Club of New
South Wales, with which it has no con-
nection. The atmosphere at this par-
ticular coffee shop certainly lacks the air
of malaise and murkiness described so
graphically by Mr Higham. On the
contrary it is lively and cheerful. And
the coffee doesn’t cost Bs. 6d. Another
blue, and a rather bad one, is Mr
Higham’s statement about the Arts Coun-
cil tour by the Tolmen as being the first
such. As far back as 1944 the Depart-
ment of Education in Queensland had
sponsored and financed a tour of Queens-
land schools by Miss Thea Rowe, whose
entire performance was as a folksinger,
and a good one. I have myself talked
about and sung Australian traditional
songs in high schools all over Queens-
land, though admittedly my tours were
not sponsored by any Government body
but by private enterprise!
In both the article by Mr Higham
and the accompanying one by Mr Wells
there is repeated mention of the Com-
munist Party and its association with the
folksong movement. The association is
there, of course. I suppose Communists
enjoy the good things of life the same as
everyone else. They are also vitally
interested in politics, as are Sir Robert
Menzies and Mr Arthur Calwell, but no
one would venture to suggest that either
of these gentlemen had Communist in-
terests outside the field where they
prosper. But if every article that
mentions folksong also mentions Com-
munism, the two become associated in
the public mind, and every bloke who
gets up to sing the “Wild Colonial Boy”
becomes immediately suspect. The con-
tinual association of folksong and Com-
munism in the Press certainly makes


m
¥¥¥ $1 S*®*: ¥ :¥:¥:¥ ¥?:¥*¥:¥ ?¥¥:¥:¥:¥:¥:
¥:¥:¥:¥:?
¥'-\ ¥ >j¥;
but
hostplan
8s horses*
No nonsense, Chevron Hilton’s new ‘Hostplan’ is the new, easy
way to plan any function, large or small, be it Wedding Breakfast,
Banquet or Ball. It budgets to an exact figure with no hidden
costs. ‘Hostplan’ includes all your requirements, gives an accurate
appraisal of the needs of your guests and relieves you of the
worry of the many aspects of party organisation. In short it’s the
most economical All-inclusive plan ever offered.
ThostplanT
is worth looking into
For further information telephone ‘HOSTPLAN’, 35-0433, and ask
for a descriptive brochure.
*
CHEVRON HILTON
MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TELEPHONE 35 0433. CABLES: ‘CHEVRON’ SYDNEY
SlR.—Since my name has appeared as
having contributed information from
Brisbane for the article “The Folk
People”, I am obliged not only to dis-
associate myself from the scurrilous and
malicious views of the author, but to
condemn the article for intending to do
little more than generate public contempt
and scorn for those who are concerned
with folk music. The article fails to note
that the National Library in Canberra,
as well as the South Australian Library,
are actively participating in efforts to
record the oral history of this country.
(The United States Government, through
the Library of Congress, is probably one
of the world’s largest collectors of folk
music and folk lore.) Mr Higham might
wish to respond that after all, one can’t
get everything into a short article. He
did, however, just manage to mention
that the “Communist Party features folk
songs at its meetings”; and, after failing
to note the widespread and quite scho-
larly interest in seventeenth century
English and Scottish ballads and Ameri-
can Negro religious songs, one of his rare
actual references to music is that a singer
with “vacant eyes” sings “about Engels,
Marx and Trotsky”.
Mr Higham appears to find it most
singular that much in the folk tradition
is devoted to the sufferings and con-
sequent protests of ordinary people.
Historians chronicle the lives and deeds
of the great and powerful; plain people
must do the best they can.
D. S. Mannison
University of Queensland.
SIR.—Is Charles Higham aware that
Australia has a western third with a
capital city called Perth? If not, I recom-
mend that he glance at any school atlas
published after 1829. Once he is satisfied
that such a place exists, he may be
interested to know that it contains “Folk
People” similar to those who we have
been led to believe are only in Eastern
Australia.
Tom Stannage
Subiaco (WA).
life more complicated for students of
tradition than it need be. How about it?
To sum up, what about a bit of recog-
nition for the active researchers and per-
formers in the folk field in this country.
How about some active encouragement
for collectors who spend time and money
trying to make some of the heritage of
this people, this folk of Australia, avail-
able in permanent record for future
generations. Can we not forget the more
sensational articles in slick adjectival
journalese by writers with the vision of
a Cyclops, and publish something
serious about folksong “traditional
songs passing among the people of a
country”. Either that, or at least pin
their labels properly.
W. N. SCOTT
Brisbane ( Q’ld ).


R E VIEWS
THEATRE
The Bible in Jazz
By DAVID MARTIN
Go Tell It on The Mountain. Comedy
Theatre, Melbourne.
I never expected that I would be joining
in God Save the Queen to organ accom-
paniment at the Comedy Theatre. But,
then, I equally did not expect an audience
which, as at the Festival Hall, claps in
rhythm with the singing of jazzified
hymns, nor the kind of musical religiosity
which could lead any moment to fur-
stoled and blue-tinted patrons rushing up
the aisle to bear witness.
They don't rush, as a matter of fact:
their enthusiasm stops just short of that.
But nobody could blame them if they
did; the show’s exuberance is so in-
fectious. I didn’t count the singers —
hardly more than 15 all told — but when
they let themselves go this Negro cast
sounds like the Don Cossacks.
There is Barbara White bobbing
about in a surplice, her pony-
tail wafting in the breeze, giving
voice like a pocket version of
Mahalia Jackson, and Alex
Bradford prancing across the
rostrum and into the stalls in
priestly robes, like a cross be-
tween a dancing dervish and Archbishop
Gough: you've never seen anything like
it. Whatever they sing or dance to, organ
or piano, the music is first-rate.
Half the time, at least, the performance
seems quite sincere, and in the case of
Blind Princess Stewart the solos are put
over with delicate skill.
In the vestibule, later, a parson was
heard to say that ail this was good
theology as well, taking the Christmas
card out of Christmas. I am not qualified
to judge, though I think the second part,
when the nativity story gives way to the
Gospel meeting, is rather better than the
first. But chacun a son gout, and I
would have hated to miss the Bethlehem
scenes. For this is where we have the
ballet. Two people only, but very well
done indeed. Matthew Cameron’s stately
Joseph is fine, and Joetta Cherry is a most
touching Mary; an unforgettable face, a
woman out of a Giotto painting, full of
sweetness and light even when writhing
in labor.
The stage is bare but for a low ramp.
To the rear is a high screen, reflecting
color from shimmering blue to orange.
In the wings you can make out a gentle-
man sitting behind a keyboard. The
singers, in plain white or black, may
shake tamborines. Front, right, is Esther
Rolle, the narrator, reciting some Bible
passages, a stanza or two from Blake, or
introducing a hymn familiar to every
Anglican. For the rest, there are the
twenty-six individual items, half of them
telling the story of Christ's birth.
Too many, I thought at first, and too
short for proper climaxes, but as the
performers take fire from their own beat
the feat is dispelled. What threatened to
be scrappy, with an echo of Tin Pan
Alley, turned out to be a feast of joy,
for the theatre, yes, but still with a
memory of the camp meeting.
You must not expect a seasonable
Carmen Jones or Porgy and Bess. James
Baldwin would no doubt call it phoney.
Here there is nothing bitter-sweet; no
challenge, as in most modern
Negro art, except the invitation
to shed pomposity. Undeni-
ably, the music is prettified —
not the true black-belt stuff.
Yet this hardly takes away from
the total effect. You can be
moved or exhilarated according
to your bent, and it just happens
that my favorite numbers are “Most
Done Travelling”, “Christ is Born”, the
funny “Meeting Here Tonight”, “Nobody
Like The Lord” and the terrific, explosive
“I Said I Wasn’t Gonna Tell Nobody”.
Only one, “Sweet Little Jesus Boy”, is
unadulterated cornpoke.
Two integral groups make up the com-
pany, the Bradford and the Patterson
singers. Bradford himself, of course, is
a famous folk voice, but altogether differ-
ent from, say, Robeson. The songs were
apparently arranged by the cast when this
off-beat musical was created, and I ima-
gine they would make some purists
wince, but who cares?
In this ensemble the sense of unity is
such that it would be silly to single out
more than the few specialists named.
There is only one small point I fail to
understand. The programme note ex-
plains that the original title, “Black
Nativity”, was changed here because a
survey discovered “widespread misunder-
standing and misinterpretation”. No skin
off my nose, but I am wondering what
misunderstanding this could be which
operates exclusively in Australia. Could
it have something to do with black
natives?
RECORDINGS
Burton’s Dark Hamlet
Hamlet. Produced by John Gielgud. CBS
S4BR 220007.
Dance to Artie Shaw. Festival. SFL 931363.
Freddie Gardner. Columbia. 330SX 7726.
The Greatest Garner. Errol Garner. Atlan-
tic. AL31374.
The Wonderful World of Julie London.
Liberty. LRP 3324.
The Fabulous Eartha Kitt. Kapp. PK6029.
John Gielgud's production of “Hamlet”,
luxuriantly packaged by CBS on four
discs, is undeniably the recording event
of the year (always excepting, presum-
ably, the giant George Rylands Shake-
speare compilation, not yet to hand for
review). Richard Burton in the title role
plays with tremendous vigor, suggesting
to perfection the combination of virility,
glum introspection, passionate rage and
acidly sardonic humor missed in so many
performances. As a vocal performance,
it frequently dazzles, notably in the
superbly delivered “To be or not to be”
soliloquy, with a cunning actor's use of
whispered lines, and an underlying sense
of cruel irony seldom found in Shake-
spearean acting. Unhappily, the sup-
porting performances are indifferent:
as Claudius, Alfred Drake is cast well
beyond his weight, Eileen Herlie repeats
the office chief’s toughness and stridency
which defaced an earlier performance of
Gertrude in Olivier's film version, Hume
Cronyn turns Polonius into one of those
tetchy clerks he has been playing for
the last 20 years, and the Ophelia is a
classy, precocious sophomore. Never-
theless, the recording is well worth
having for Burton; an indispensable
legacy for one’s heirs.
“Dance to Artie Shaw” is a superb
record, brash, dynamic, excitingly re-
corded. The sleeve note doesn't give the
dates of the performances, and Mr Shaw
may well be in the “whatever happened
to?” category, but as a technician he’s dis-
played here at his most breathtaking. “I
Get a Kick Out of You” is, on its own,
an exuberant triumph well worth having
the record for. Freddie Gardner, the
late British saxophonist, is vividly brought
back on the recent Columbia release. The
doyen of performers in the field outside
America, he was a virtuoso with an
occasionally over-slick touch; no one
would deny the wholeheartedly commer-
cial texture of a good many bands on
this pressing. But his delicate “Smoke
Gets in Your Eyes” and mournful, ele-
gant “Body and Soul” leave nothing to
be desired.
“The Greatest Garner” displays Errol
Garner at a long remove from his jazz
heyday. The feeling for jazz flows
through his very commercial current
work, but the elaboration, the slight sense
of pretension running through it nowa-


PRIME MINISTER SPEAKS:
“Why your senate election
vote is vital”
On the essential issues involved, the Prime Minister, Sir Robert Menzies,
has this to say:
m
In a perilous world, where Australia’s relations with
its Asian neighbours and with Britain and America
are of supreme importance, we cannot afford to take
risks.
The great issues confronting Australia today, at home
and abroad, are the same as they were a year ago.
If the Government were to lose its majority in the
Senate, the control of these vital matters would pass
ON SATURDAY, sth DECEMBER
into the hands of Left-wing extremists. These men
would hold the balance of power.
I ask for your support in the Senate Election on sth
December so that we can continue to command a
majority in both Houses. Only in that way can
Australia enjoy stable and effective government at
home and security in association with powerful friends
and allies abroad.
VOTE
FOR THE SENATE
COPY YOUR LIBERAL HOW-TO-VOTE CARD EXACTLY!
Authorised by J. L. Carrick, Liberal Party of Australia
811
days quite rightly disturbs the purists.
Both over-rated and under-rated nowa-
days, he’s almost too polished for his own
good. Julie London's new record shows
her below her best: merely glib where
she used to be engagingly sexy, cool and
wry. And “The Fabulous Eartha Kitt” is
an old record which should have been
announced as such on the sleeve; still
worth having, but scarcely representative
of the star’s present, very striking tech-
nique.
CHARLES HIGHAM
TELEVISION
Musical Nostalgia
The Lively Arts: The Musical. Channel 2,
Sydney.
Seven Days: Sex and The Teenager. Channel
7, Sydney.
Channel 2’s series “The Lively Arts”
often falls into the same trap as “Holly-
wood and the Stars”; it tries to cover
too much ground in 30 minutes. As
Bill Collins pointed out in his “Lively
Arts” programme on the film musical,
the first talking picture was a musical.
So this has been going on for about a
quarter of a century —too long a time,
and too many films, to cover in half an
hour.
What it boiled down to was a plea-
santly nostalgic series of sequences from
old and not so old movies, linked by Bill
Collins’ bright but of necessity not very
probing commentary. It was in no way
a history of the growth of a new enter-
tainment form —for one thing, it gave
the impression that only one studio ever
made musicals. Apart from a passing
reference to the Astaire-Rogers films, the
programme concentrated on MGM pro-
ductions. They were pretty good, cer-
tainly, but other studios—for instance
Warner Brothers in the ’thirties, Twen-
tieth Century-Fox in the ’forties—made
films which, for good or ill, had a strong
influence in the development of the musi-
cal. You should have mentioned them,
Mr Collins, even if you couldn’t get clips
from them.
The second part of Channel 7’s “Sex
and The Teenager” was as uninformative
as the first, and seemed to have been
flung together rather than constructed.
This segment was supposed to give
older people—divided into parents and
“experts”—their opportunity to discuss
the present generation of teenagers. If
they had anything stimulating to say,
they kept it to themselves.
The poor parents, herded into what
looked like jury-boxes, were questioned
by an interviewer whose contempt for
their opinions was barely disguised. One
woman was left mouthing soundlessly
when he (and the microphone) left her
in mid-sentence. “Sorry”, said the in-
terviewer perfunctorily, taking the time
to look over his shoulder with a brief
and patronising smile.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
Victory at Sea
Project ’64: Baptism of Fire. Channel 9,
Sydney.
Emden. Channel 2, Sydney.
Both the ABC and Channel 9 networks
recently paid tribute to HMAS Sydney’s
victory over the German raider Emden
in November, 1914. This was the first
feat of arms of the young Royal Austra-
lian Navy and deserved a television
salute. Unfortunately authentic film
material about the battle is evidently
very scanty, and the ABC producer in
particular had to fall back on stills,
newspaper cuttings, charts, many feet of
heaving ocean and sound effects in which
the Emden’s salvoes sounded rather like
the thump of potato sacks on wet cement.
The ABC programme skated carefully
round the most contentious aspect of the
battle—whether Captain Glossop of the
Sydney was justified in continuing to
fire on the German ship, inflicting heavy
casualties, after the Emden was obviously
hors de combat. It made no mention
whatever of the criticism also levelled at
Glossop for allowing the Sydney to be
hit repeatedly when he could have out-
gunned the Emden from a safe range.
Channel 9's Project ’64 programme,


Performance!
Precision!
Prestige!
TAX
ASAHI
World's leading single-lens
reflex camera
Asahi Pentax . . . pride and joy
and ultimate choice of discrimi-
nating people all over the world;
people who, like yourself, ap-
preciate the ‘better things’ in
life. Asahi Pentax is unique. Its
appearance and features place it
in a world apart. Over 100
accessories put you in command
of every photographic situation.
The perfectionist in you knows
no compromise . . . so could
you ever have considered
another camera?
Asahi PENTAX SV tvith f/1.8
Takumar Lens and E.R. case ,
£9O/0/0.
Asahi PENTAX Sla tvith f/2
Super-Takumar Lens and E.R.
case , £75/0/0.
At your photo dealer
K.Cllll.M
“Baptism of Fire”, was much better
viewing. The producer, Brian Williams
of TVW-7 in Perth, brought off a reward-
ing coup by acquiring from Germany a
copy of an early German talkie docu-
mentary film (circa 1932 from the sound
of it) about the Emden’s cruise and final
battle. It was interesting to see the enemy
version of the story, and I liked the
Mack Sennett shots of fat, frightened
passengers scurrying from the swimming
pool of a British liner when the Emden
hove in sight. Some other incidents were
a bit dubious, too, but the general im-
pression was realistic enough.
The commentary, written by Brian
Williams, was mercifully free from the
banal rhetoric that so often weighs down
locally-produced documentaries. Michael
Ramsden, blinking in the sunshine be-
neath the Sydney’s mast on Bradley’s
Head, summed up the criticism of Cap-
tain Glossop neatly and pithily. Alto-
gether Project ’64 rose to the occasion
well, though I thought it might have been
fair to give some information about the
German film; when it was made and how
the producer acquired it, for instance.
After all, it did comprise about three-
quarters of the programme.
GEOFFREY SCOTT
FILMS
Gigolo in Flight
The Love Cage. Director, Rene Clement.
Recently at St James Theatre, Sydney.
Kindly Shoot the Pianist (Tirez Sur le
Pianiste). Director, Francois Truffaut.
Gala Cinema, Sydney.
The Mistress. Director, Vilgot Sjoman. Lido
Theatre, Sydney.
A genuine curiosity of a film, “The Love
Cage,” divertingly demonstrates that
Rene Clement’s touch is as sure as ever.
Alain Delon plays a professional
charmer on the run from the murderous
minions of a jealous husband. He jumps
at the offer of a live-in job as chauffeur
to a rich widow (Lola Albright) and her
poor-relation companion (Jane Fonda).
With relief he moves into the widow’s
neo-Gothic Riviera chateau (“it’s so nice
to have a man about the castle”, purrs
Miss Fonda) which he sees as a luxurious
refuge containing two accommodating
women.
But the girls have other plans for
him, and the film ends with a brilliant
piece of cynical dramatic irony, startlingly
effective for all its contrivance.
“Tirez Sur le Pianiste” made between
Truffaut's two other feature films, lacks
the impact of “The 400 Blows” and the
Undoubted technical skill of “Jules and
lim”. It’s presumably what is nowadays
called a “black comedy”, since it is pre-
sented in comic style but involves crime,
suicide, kidnapping and murder and in
fact ends merrily with practically every-
one dead.
This form of comedy can come off
brilliantly—but Truffaut only once shows
the required heartless wit, when someone,
to prove his veracity, says “ —or may my
mother drop dead!” and there’s a quick
shot of poor old mum falling as if pole-
axed.
This ramshackle film has no indi-
vidual style, and only the fine perform-
ance of Charles Aznavour gives it value.
“The Mistress” stars two players
from the Bergman stable and was direc-
ted by a man who has worked with him.
Not much of the Bergman touch has
rubbed off on Vilgot Sjoman, whose
direction is capable but most uninterest-
ing. But the film has a good script (also
by Sjoman) and is well acted, especially
by Bibi Andersson.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
MUSIC
Adoration of the Child
The Play of Herod. St. Mary’s Cahedral
Crypt. Sydney.
Piano recital by Gordon Watson. Sydney
Conservatorium.
Eight hundred years ago it would have
been done differently. Twelfth cen-
tury audiences saw “The Play of Herod”
in the context of their religious belief;
in Sydney in 1964 James McAuley had
to supply a verse commentary to make
up for the gap of the centuries. Further,
the 12th century instrumentation is un-
• known and the notation of the period
recorded pitch, not rhythm; so Nigel
Butterley had to speculate as he recon-
structed the score.
The result as a whole is engrossing.
The subject of “The Play of Herod” is
the adoration of the Christ child by the
shepherds and Magi, to which the long
episode involving Herod is not entirely
relevant. McAuley’s verse dwells on the
religious significance of Christ’s birth
and generally does not attempt to
heighten the action.
Apart from minor lapses and some
first-night lack of smoothness, James
Lang’s production was in all ways com-
parable with his recent production of
“Daniel”. The processions and tableaux
and the generally stylised acting were
highly effective without ever distracting
attention from the play’s essential direct-
ness and simplicity.
The music of “Herod” is a little less
vigorous than that of “Daniel”. However
Butterley’s arrangement embraces a wide
variety of styles within its overall unity
of effect. The items range from unac-
companied plainchant, through doubling
of vocal lines in fourths and fifths, two
part organa, and instrumental dances, to
an excellent modern setting of the Te
Deum. The total effect of commentary,
production and music is completely en-
gaging.
★ ★ ★
Gordon Watson’s excellent presentation
of the four piano sonatas of Weber re-
veal a composer acutely and shrewdly
aware of the tastes of the musical public
of his time. None of the music in these
sonatas is entirely personal even the
slow movements are written with an eye
to public response. The sonatas call for
great virtuosity from the performer, and
feature a considerable amount of high-
speed right-hand work, runs up and
down the keyboard, hand-crossing, and
similar devices. The limitations of the
music are partly due to its emphasis on
skill in performance, partly to the
tyranny of the bar line, which hems
in most of Weber’s melodies and
rhythms.
JOHN SMALL


SUNDRY SHOWS
THEATRE
MELBOURNE Comedy Theatre, Exhibi-
tion Street. 32 3211. Go Tell It On The Moun-
tain. Until December 26. (Reviewed this issue.)
Her Majesty's, Exhibition Street. 32 3211. A
Funny Thing Happened.
Princess, Spring Street, 321211. Elizabethan
Trust Opera Company and The Australian
Ballet. Operas: Carmen, Cosi Fan Tutte, Mac-
beth, The Wise Woman and Catulli Carmina.
Ballets: Les Sylphides, Carnaval, The Display,
Jazz Spectrum, Giselle, Prince Igor, Aurora's
Wedding, Roundelay Divertissement. (All re-
viewed 3/10/64, 19/9/64, 26/9/64 and 15/8/64.)
Tivoli, Bourke Street. 63 2111 The Black and
White Minstrel Show returned for a two month
run from October 28.
Union Theatre. Enquiries to 42 1266. A
Thousand Clowns, with Kevin Colson. Until
November 28. (Reviewed this issue.) Night of
the Auk. Begins December 1.
St. Martin's Theatre, St. Martin's Lane, South
Yarra. 26 2188. Man and Boy, by Terence
Rattigan. Until December 5. (Reviewed
21/11/64.)
SYDNEY Her Majesty's, Central Square.
211 0472. Camelot, Lerner and Loewe's extrava-
gant musical set for another long run. (Re-
viewed 31/10/64.)
Ensemble, North Sydney. 92 2181. Cages, by
Lewis John Carlino. (Reviewed 21/11/64.)
Independent, North Sydney. 92 2718. The
Miser. Alexander Archdale's production of the
Moliere classic. (Reviewed 7/11/64.) From
October 29 for six weeks. Thursdays, Fridays,
Saturdays. Toad of Toad Hall. Matinees 2.15,
Saturdays.
Phillip, Elizabeth Street. 61 9880. Is Australia
Really Necessary? After some months play-
housing the Phillip returns to revue. With
Miriam Karlin, Red Moore, Barbara Wyndon and
Darlene Johnson. Revised scripts, funny per-
formances. (Reviewed 17/10/64.)
Music Hall Restaurant, Neutral Bay. 90 1237.
How The West Was Lost. Noeline Brown, John
Unicomb and Sheila Kennelly help make this
still one of the best nights in town. Meanwhile,
The Little Mermaid, Saturday matinee for child-
ren, continues. Booking is advised for both.
New Theatre, 151 William Street, East Sydney.
31 3237. Purlie Victorious, by Ossie Davis. A
satirical play of the Deep South, until end of
December.
Pocket Playhouse, Sydenham. 55 6411. Black
Chiffon, by Lesley Storm, produced by John
Fleming. Performances at 8 p.m. Thursdays,
Fridays and Saturdays. The Pied Piper, by Robert
Browning. Saturday matinees for children. This,
if you are interested, is booked out until
February, 1965.
Q Group Theatre, A.M.P., Circular Quay. 2 0530.
Squat Betty, by Waterhouse and Hall.
Royal, Castlereagh Street. 28 8255. Flanders and
Swann. Until December 16.
Tivoli, Castlereagh Street. 211 4288. Carousel.
The Rodgers and Hammerstein musical. A long
time coming but still sounds good. (Reviewed
31/10/64.) Closes December 19.
ADELAIDE Her Majesty's,, 54 Grote
Street. 51 6171. Boeing Boeing, with Peter Jones.
Until November 28. How to Succeed begins
December 4 for six to seven weeks.
ART
MELBOURNE Argus Gallery, 290 Lat-
robe Street, Melbourne. 34 6850. 100 gravures
de Paris. November 17-27. Young Printmakers.
November 30-December 18.
Gallery A, 275 Toorak Road. 24 4201. Aboriginal
Bark Paintings. From November 19. Christmas
Exhibition, from December 3.
Australian Galleries, 35 Derby Street, Colling-
wood. 41 4303, 41 4382. Antonio Rodriguez.
November 17-27. Tony Woods, Joan O'Loughlin,
December 1-23.
Leveson Street Gallery, Leveson Street, North
Melbourne. 30 4558. Masaaki Ueshima. Novem-
ber 15-27. Constance Stokes. November 28-
December 11.
National Gallery of Victoria, Swanston Street.
32 2991. Australian Landscape Paintings. Octo-
ber 29-December 10.
SYDNEY Art Gallery of NSW, Domain.
28 9860. Peter Stuyvesant Show. December 2-20.
Barry Stern Gallery, 28 Glenmore Road, Pad-
dington. 31 7676. Ron Lambert. November
18-28. William Drew irom December 2.
David Jones Gallery. Elizabeth Street. British
and European painters, from December 9.
Frances Jones Studio, 7 James Street, Wool-
lahra. 32 3251. Various charity showings weekly
until Christmas.
Rudy Komon Gallery, 124 Jersey Road, Wool-
lahra. 32 2533. Robert Ellis, NZ artist. Novem-
ber 18-28. Christmas Anniversary Exhibition.
December 2-31.
Education Galleries, Loftus Street. 42 2068.
Ogburn Art Studios. November 23-December 3.
NEWCASTLE Von Bertouch Galleries,
50 Laman Street. 2 3584. Collector's Choice.
November 20-December 1. Closed Wednesdays
and Thursdays.
ADELAIDE Bonython Gallery, 88 Jerning-
ham Street, North Adelaide. 6 8672. Paintings
by Ray Crooke. November 2 until December 4.
Osborne Gallery, 13 Leigh Street, Adelaide.
51 3227. Joan Branson.
BRISBANE Queensland Art Gallery, Greg-
ory Terrace. Australian Sculpture. November 26
to January 2, 1965.
Johnstone Gallery, 6 Cintra Road, Bowen Hills.
5 2217. Brian Seidel. November 15-December 2.
PERTH Skinner Galleries, 31 Malcolm
Street. 21 9800. Cyril Lander paintings. Novem-
ber 23-December 4.
Claude Hotchin Art Gallery, Murray Street.
23 0121. Maurice Kennedy. November 16-27.
C.A.S. Show, from November 30.
HOBART Tasmanian State Art Gallery, 5
Argyle Street. 2 6038. Tasmanian Historical
Paintings.
ART
Paris Provincials
French Art. Clune Galleries, Sydney.
The ficole de Paris no longer projects
a firm, confident image of itself. It
tacitly admits that the centre of art is
now New York, and a great number of
the best French artists work away from
Paris. But if one were to elucidate a
few of the essential qualities of French
art professionalism, taste, rational
control, subtlety and realism they
would be found in the work of most
painters in this Clune Gallery show.
Maurice Brianchon’s "‘Prairie” for in-
stance, anchors firmly to reality midway
between the grisailles of Bonnard and the
superbly balanced simplifications of
Matisse. As properties of the Ecole de
Paris, the methods are familiar enough
but they never seem to harden into the
multiple sclerosis of academism. The
poetry of the immediate impression is
always uppermost. Brianchon is not a
young man but his landscapes, and this
is a fine example, exude a breath of
eternal youth.
More dramatic and emotional is
Rouault’s Romanesque icon, a Veronica
entitled “Holy Face” a late work of con-
siderable force in the minimum of color
and line. Surprising indeed if one con-
siders the rarity of his more important
paintings even in Europe. One or two
colored aquatints support, together with
a highly expressive gouache portrait
which exposes more satiric sonalt.
The Claude Vernard still life may be
a highly accomplished post cultist still
life of great charm but, like his fellow
countryman Bernard Buffet, chills some-
what with an effusion of well oiled P.R.
mannerisms. Seduction is more likely
than wholesome aesthetic surprise, but
no one is likely to object.
Forain’s pastel of a ballet dancer
evokes effectively the era of Degas and
Lautrec, whose shadow obscured for
many decades the brilliance of his ac-
complishment. Recent retrospectives
overseas have done much to re-establish
his fame as a highly gifted social com-
mentator in the great tradition of
Hogarth and Daumier.
Jules Cavailles inhabits the same cli-
matic territory as Philip Sutton in two
expertly designed Fauve still lifes which
could have come straight from Collioure.
Denser in payment, more abstract and
Intimiste are the still lifes of Aizpiri.
The quiet Henri Hayden exerts an enig-
matic presence in contradistinction to
the boldly conceived tapestries of Jean
Lurcat and Picart De Doux.
Following last year’s experiment in
the introduction of European art to Aus-
tralian collectors, Clune’s Galleries are
to be congratulated on their enterprise.
JOHN HENSHAW


BOOKS
Two Cheers for a Survivor
By CHARLES HIGHAM
A Single Man. Christopher Isherwood.
Methuen. 16s.
Chaos and Night. HenW de Montherlant.
Weidenfeld and Nicolson. 31s. 6d.
Santa Monica, California, 1962. George,
an expatriate English intellectual, wakes
up in his canyon cottage to face a new
day. Already, in this first chapter of
Isherwood’s new novel, there’s a hint of
Eastern philosophy, that chronic obses-
sion of the Californian British: “Waking
up begins with saying am and now . . .
but now isn’t simply now.” One im-
mediately catches the Huxley ring in the
prose, and indeed there’s a great deal in
the book that’s Huxleyan in its timbre
and concerns. “Fear tweaked the vagus
nerve. A sickish shrinking from what
waits, somewhere out there, dead ahead.”
What George is afraid of is living another
day, or rather of not being able to live
it. The necessity of putting on masks,
wearing clothes that will have to be suit-
able, performing as required, and placat-
ing the “others”, the bourgeois hordes
of the West Coast haunts him as he
steels himself to the ordeal of life.
George is self-pitying, and even a
mite querulous. Arthritic twinges greet
him, the body has to be weighed duti-
fully on the scales like a sack of flour,
there’s the first glum look at a mirrored
face, “not so much a face as the expres-
sion of a predicament.” Rising, getting
breakfast, it’s all —in this empty snug
house a dour curtain-raiser to a play
that has no meaning. Over fried food,
there's a memory of a lost lover, Jim,
killed James Dean-like in a car accident.
Ruskin is read on the toilet-seat. And
now the show must start: a squaring of
the shoulders, a fixing of old, lived-in
eyes firmly on the world. Ingesting, de-
fecation, sex memories we are spared
nothing in following, with an intimacy
at once amusing and upsetting, the per-
ambulations of a bibulous queer.
First, facing daylight, George snaps at
the evils of the suburbia in which
poor modern wretch! he must live. It
nags him, that regulated, stolid world of
his neighbors, involving businesses to be
run, wives to be slept with, children
to be conceived, raised and snarled at.
Predictable, horrible! And those terrible
housewives, so ready to pity the crabbed,
ageing lecturer who lives across the way!
George, of course, pities them, it’s one
of the luxuries he allows himself: those
people longing to raise smug, healthy
kids who'll disturb him with their shouts
while he's reading. And for a joke, he’s
lied to them: Jim isn’t dead, he’s gone
away. Easy to trick them, to kid them,
about that; it’s George's way of getting
even.
Spleen vented, George even George
has to do a day’s work. He drives to
San Tomas College, to give a lecture on
“After Many a Summer”. Slyly, he notes
his impressions of serious, institution-
alised academic life, endless memoranda
stuffed into teachers’ pigeon-holes, bored
students looking furtively at the clock
he has wondered what has engaged their
attention up there just out of eyeshot
and now, sickeningly, he knows a can-
teen in which a vile green jelly lurks in
wait for him, veined like a semi-precious
stone. But even though George has fun
at the expense of Californian seriousness,
he is still, most of all, preoccupied with
himself. It takes a visit to a former mis-
tress of his dead lover, dying of cancer
in hospital, to restore
George to pleasure in being
alive. After all, he’s among
the survivors. He goes to a
gym, does 80 situps in a
row. There’s life, one can
hear him saying rather
nauseatingly to himself, in
the old boy yet.
So far, the book bril-
liantly works. But gradually
t h e delicately balanced
structure begins to fail,
small cracks—faults of em-
phases, moments of senti-
mentality or self-pity — begin to spider
across the polished surface. Up to now,
we’ve been kept hypnotised by the prose’s
smoothness, content to glide along it
without much caring where we’re going.
And there have been several scenes—like
the flat, bright back projections in a film
—to keep us watching: the suburban fast-
ness, the factory-college, the freeway’s
perils, all vividly if superficially observed.
But now two over-long and insecurely
managed episodes throw the whole book
out of gear. First, there’s a visit to a
slightly arty English woman concerned
whether she should or should not return
to her sister in the Old Dart; this seems
to have strayed in from another book,
saying nothing about George and not dis-
closing (as it might have done) anything
very illuminating about the attitudes of
British expatriates to Home and Abroad.
And a later scene, in which George picks
up one of his students in a bar, goes
surfing with him, takes him home, flirts
with him and finally fails to seduce him,
has an embarrassing gauche clumsiness,
alternately gushing and prim in tone. The
approach here — of that slightly haughty
and cool kind so often mistaken for
irony — is disagreeably spinsterish. And
the style, so disciplined before, becomes
slack and cornily adipose.
At the end, a slight recovery: a des-
cription of George indulging in an erotic
fantasy, sleeping, and disclosing himself
to the invisible observer as a potential
heart case — all this is as strikingly done
as anything in the book’s first half. But
it comes too late to save it. One is left
with an unhappy impression of a near-
disastrous thinning out of the creative
imagination, a blank observation of a dull
landscape, as though the famous camera
of the Berlin stories were turned inward
to contemplate the author’s navel. Here
and there, scenes remain firmly in the
memory after George’s long day is over,
notably the visit to the hospital where the
sensuous, powerfully animal woman Jim
loved is reduced to a grey mouthing
mummy in a private ward. Here, Isher-
wood may have been inspired by a pain-
ful experience — his description of
Aldous Huxley’s dying of cancer of the
tongue distinguishes a re-
cent issue of the “Atlantic”
—and the writing quickens,
the hard, level gaze of the
narrator of the Berlin
stories is there.
Montherlant's “Chaos
and Night” again deals with
old age, with the feelings
of a querulous survivor. It
returns to the mood of “The
Bachelors”, that famous
early novel of aged aristo-
crats scuffling around Paris,
keeping themselves alive
with cruel gossip and spying. Don Celes-
tino is a Spanish expatriate Republican,
living a pathetically useless life in Paris
— a cross between Don Alvaro, the
proudly austere hero of “The Master of
Santiago”, M. de Coantre in “The
Bachelors” and, of course, the misogynist
Montherlant himself. Rapidly approach-
ing senility — he is ten years the senior
of Isherwood’s George — Celestino is no
less obsessed with the dilapidation of his
physique. One sees the former footballer
and runner Montherlant once was grap-
pling with old age like one of the bulls he
fought from the age of 15 (“Brave little
bull!” an aggrieved woman cried when
she heard he had been gored in the
groin). Celestino dreams of Spain, curs-
ing France, Rome (“the dome of St
Peter’s is the candle snuffer of Western
thought”) and America as he does so.
But on returning to his homeland, he
meets embittering disappointments. The
bullfight he once gloried in with sensual
relish is suddenly seen in its true colors,
stripped of glamor. Like Isherwood's pro-
tagonist, Celestino discovers that old age,


m BOOK
acorn
IN EARLY
DECEMBER
the top travel author's biggest
and best yet the New
COHN SIMPSON
in time for Christmas giving. Handsome
500 pages, over 100 photos. Only 455.
It takes you to Samarkand and beyond.
From Russia's rise to Khrushchev's fall.
Mi MilOmiA
and Central Asian Republics of the Soviet Union
TO BE PUBLISHED BY ANGUS & ROBERTSON
which swathes most people in a comfort-
able, blinding cocoon, is for the intelli-
gent a time of chilling revelation.
Despite a translation which reduces
Montherlant’s icily incisive style to stil-
ted monotony, the book’s power remains
impressive. The Spanish episodes are at
least the equal of those in the author’s
bull-fighting masterpiece, “Les Bestiaires”,
that book's images of fire and beauty and
sexual excitement in the bullring here
turned into a vision of defecation, vio-
lence and squalor. Where once Monther-
lant identified with his young torero, he
looks with envy now through his pro-
tagonist’s eyes at the gilded men in the
ring with their taut, insolent virility. The
writing is as muscular and vibrant as
ever, the observation more pitilessly
exact than any in modern French litera-
ture. Montherlant may no longer be
able to fight the bulls, but, like his hero
Don Celestino flapping a Quixote’s cloak
at the Paris traffic, he still takes on the
world with stubborn pride, still points a
taunting sword at vulgarity, cupidity,
meanness and sloth.
Beetles and Plush
The Victorian Household. Marion Loch-
head. John Murray. 31s.
Life In Stuart England. Maurice Ashley.
Batsford. 345. 9d.
“If you have nothing in the house and
company should come, take a cold turkey
. . .” Such was the illuminating advice
offered by a widely-read cookery book
in the palmy mid-Victorian days. The
eating habits of substantial Victorian
households seem almost incredibly vora-
cious in these calorie-conscious times.
More than one contemporary writer
commented on the persistent aroma of
cooking that penetrated the mansions of
Belgravia and Kensington, drifting up
from beetle-ridden basement kitchens to
linger pervasively amid the horsehair
and plush of the upper rooms.
Marion Lochhead has written an enter-
taining and instructive book, avoiding
the temptations to sentimentalise over
the Victorians or portray them merely
as philistine monsters. Not every pater-
familias was like Mr Barrett of Wimpole
Street. For all their stuffiness, snobbery
and genius for combining piety with
practicality, the Victorians had many un-
spectacular virtues like decency and
dignity. Their servants might have to
toil up and down stairs from daybreak
until midnight with coal scuttles and hot-
water cans, but they were well-nourished,
much better housed than their brothers
and sisters out in the harsh industrial
world, their moral welfare was watched
over and they were not turned adrift to
starve in old age. As the author says:
“How much the comfort and civilisation
of Victorian life depended upon its ser-
vants can hardly be over-estimated.”
The setting for the Victorian house-
hold was, of course, the Victorian house,
and the best part of Miss Lochhead’s
book is her evocation of the jungle of
furnishings that made the crossing of a
drawing-room such a hazardous journey.
So many traps lay in wait for the clumsy
or unwary tables laden with albums,
wax fruit and photographs, screens,
china cabinets, stools and whatnots. As
someone remarked, the trouble with the
Victorians was not that they had no taste
but that they had so much of it. “Wher-
ever you can nest, there decorate!”
decreed the sage of Denmark Hill. It
was also Ruskin who said: “It is the
glory of Gothic architecture that it can
do anything.” It certainly did, from
municipal lavatories to the salons of
Eaton Hall. The visitor to London who
wants to see what a mid-Victorian archi-
tect was capable of in his finest frenzy of
creation should go and look at the house
William Burges designed for himself just
off Kensington High Street.
Miss Lochhead has drawn heavily on
the biographies of celebrated Victorians
to build up her picture of domestic life
and, though the households of people like
the Dawkins and Carlyles could hardly
be claimed to be typical of the age, they
provide some fascinating vignettes. I
liked the description of Lord Tennyson
taking his weekly hot bath: “The round
shallow tub was set out, cans of hot
water fetched, and the coachmen poured
the stream over the stalwart frame of
the seated Laureate.”
“Life in Stuart England” portrays a
very different society—one just emerging
from the crudity and violence of the
Tudor age into the relative stability that
was to last until the Industrial Revolu-
tion. Maurice Ashley is a specialist in
the 17th-century field and he has dis-
tilled an enormous amount of informa-
tion about the social life of noble, mer-
chant and peasant, economics, religion,
arts and sciences into an extremely read-
able little book.
This volume is one of the English Life
Series, under the general editorship of
Peter Quennell. It is handsomely pro-
duced and very well illustrated.
GEOFFREY SCOTT
Black Magic
The Place at Whitton. Thomas Keneally.
Cassell. 245. 6d.
Albino. Jack Cope. Heinemann. 265. 6d.
The Cactus Land. Rhona Stern. Michael
Joseph. 265. 6d.
“The Place at Whitton” is a training
college for priests, apparently within
easy driving distance of Sydney. It
specialises in turning out, in the words
of the president of the institution, “good
middle class priests who owned cars
and golfed and were faithful to the
death”, who presumably are quite
acceptable to the church on the grounds
that “you couldn’t ask more of Aus-
tralians”.
Despite his Irish name, Keneally, a
schoolmaster who lives at Homebush,
Sydney, doesn't seem to know much
about priests, their beliefs or behavior;
and as they are characterised as speak-
ing in the same idiom as all the other
characters, be they policemen, book-
sellers or taxi-drivers, one suspects he
has never met one.
For all the steadying mediocrity to
be found within the monastic seclusion
of Whitton, the student priests and the
instructors responsible for their
spiritual development lead a horrifyingly
exciting life, having to endure four
violent deaths. Perhaps it is the strain
which causes most of the characters to
act in such markedly un-priestlike
fashion, though we are certainly led to
believe that most of them have deep-
seated psychological problems. These
problems run the gamut from Blimey
Ted’s concern with the quality of food
he is in charge of serving to the students
through President Stenner’s memories
of an early, unfulfilled love to the more
serious cases of Verissimo who is con-
vinced he has secretly been meeting
Joan of Arc and Pontifex who is suffer-
ing from the desecration of his vows
when he participated in the killing of
a young Cypriot in Famagusta. It quite
soon becomes evident that one of the
troubled priests is a murderer, despite a
number of red herrings even more


AUTHORS
invited submit MSS all types
(including poems) for book
publication. Reasonable terms.
Stockwell Ltd. # Ilfracombe,
England. (Established 1898.)
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. D, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
irrelevant than those traditional to
murder mysteries.
Jack Cope’s “Albino” approaches the
problem of the black man’s adapting to
the white man’s world through the eyes
of mKidi, a young man growing up as a
Zulu in the belief that he is an albino.
When he discovers that he is truly a
white man and, as Kit, attempts to make
the transition, he is torn between the
two worlds. Apart from his emotionally
divided state, he is distrusted and
physically mistreated by both sides. His
transmutation also has other strange
effects on him—the moral if naive life
that he led as a native changes abruptly
and he develops an immediate weakness
for the white man’s vices. A bottle of
brandy at bedtime becomes a necessity
and his penchant for alcohol involves
him in numerous drunken brawls; he
loses faith in the Bible which, as a native,
he had accepted without question.
All this would seem to suggest that
Cope is trying to point out how tenuous
and insubstantial is the gap between
black and white (a “there but for the
Grace of God” approach); even assum-
ing that we do not cavil about the
physiological possibility of an albino be-
ing born to an African family (one at
that without any of the physical imper-
fections usually associated with the
phenomenon), it is at best merely a de-
vice and much of the book is wide of the
mark if it is aiming for significance.
There is a strange unevenness in charac-
terisation and writing. Kit’s thoughts and
inner struggles generally ring true, yet
Diana, the white girl he loves, is not a
living character and the scene in which
they acknowledge each other is little bet-
ter than “True Confessions”. Though
Kit's allegiances and his identity are still
not completely resolved at the book’s
end, there is the suspicion that a tragic
premise has improbably yielded a happy
ending.
While there is a professionalism about
“Albino”, Rhona Stern shows herself in
“The Cactus Land” (the title owes its
indebtedness to Eliot’s “The Waste
Land”) to be a talented, enthusiastic
amateur. A sculptress by profession,
Miss Stern has picked a difficult subject
for her first novel and the apparent
facility with which she becomes a spokes-
• man for the young Zulu girl Tembe does
not really get below surface impressions.
The girl’s progress away from tribal
life and the environment of the old
people, to the towns and cities of the
white man’s world where she works as
a servant and becomes slightly involved
in political activities gives Miss Stern
an opportunity to indulge heavily in
local color contrasting the native
initiation ceremonies of the tribe with
the shebeens of the Johannesburg slums.
It is when Miss Stern tries to reproduce
the discursive arguments and beliefs of
what are represented as the black intel-
lectuals that she gets into most difficulty.
NOEL BUCKLEY
Swagmen Anonymous
The Penguin Book of Australian Ballads.
Edited by Russel Ward. 9s 6d.
The Unknown Swagman Anon is the
hero of this anthology. He saunters
through the pages with a humorous dys-
peptic eye. As he says of himself:
I’ve a notion in my pate, that it’s luck,
it isn’t fate,
That I’m so far above the common run.
So in everything I do, you could cut
me fair in two
For I’m too bloody good to be in one.
When compared with Anon, the pro-
fessional literary balladists such as Henry
Lawson and Daley tend to tedium and
prettiness and excessive self-righteous-
ness. This is perhaps because they wrote
for the printed word. Anon on the other
hand had to recite or sing his verses
around a camp fire to an audience who
could be very enthusiastic, but who were
also just as likely to tell him to come
off it.
This no doubt cut out a lot of finer
feelings from Anon’s verses, but it forced
him to be direct, amusing, to tell a good
yarn and get it over quickly. Another
factor influencing Anon is that no one
is going to learn by heart a lot of padding
and decoration. Russel Ward in his
introduction states that when faced
between choosing either the earlier, per-
haps more pedantically correct version of
a ballad and a later, improved version,
he always chose the latter. I agree with
this. What survives is generally the best,
and survival by word of mouth is a good
test of quality.
Some of Lawson’s more ambitious
leaps at poetic intensity almost come off.
In “Ballad of the Drover” the drover is
drowned by flood and his packhorse
escapes. The poem ends like this:
Across the flooded lowlands
And slopes of sodden loam
The packhorse struggles bravely
To take dumb tidings home;
And mud-stained, wet, and weary,
He goes by rock and tree,
With clanging chains and tinware
All sounding eerily.
This is almost very fine, but it drowns
in the quicksand of its own adjectives.
The device of the packhorse struggling
bravely to bring dumb tidings home is for
me false heroics. Habit and perhaps
hunger would have motivated the horse.
I hardly think it would have wanted to
be a four-legged messenger boy.
In “Shearers” Lawson describes how
shearers “do the best they can today
take no thought of tomorrow”. He
describes their life in general terms, and
the tone is didactic.
However, there are some excellent
lighter ballads by Lawson, Paterson,
P. J. Hartigan and others. It is good to
see that Mr Ward has included old favor-
ites such as “Waltzing Matilda”, “The
Man from Snowy River” and “The Dying
Stockman”.
Another good feature of the anthology
is the small selection of modern verse
at the end of the book. It helps put the
ballads in perspective and shows how
they have influenced more recent Aus-
tralian verse.
GEOFFREY LEHMANN
Spasms of Dissent
The Trouble Makers: Dissent over Foreign
Policy, 1792-1939. By A. J. P. Taylor.
Hamish Hamilton. 265. 6d.
When Attlee was Prime Minister he once
tersely defined the radical intelligentsia
in his party as “those who always con-
trive to be wrong about any question
whatsoever”. He was, as I recall, having
some little trouble with Professor Laski
over an issue of foreign policy at the
time. These essays of A. J. P. Taylor
do not reach the post-war period, but
the tradition with which they are con-
cerned is the one to which Attlee was
so understandably reacting, a tradition
which has been much more dangerous
and embarrassing to the leaders of the
moderate Left than to the leaders of the
Right,
The Dissenters, in Mr Taylor’s sense,
are not merely the critics of foreign
policy. As he points out, a staunch
member of the Established Church may
be a fervent critic of his Bishop’s policies.
The true Dissenter, on the other hand,
believes that the Bishop should not exist:
indeed he believes that the whole Church
Establishment should not exist. Similarly,
in foreign affairs, one may distinguish
those who criticise the conduct of policy
while accepting the framework of as-
sumptions within which foreign policies
are normally made, from those who
repudiate the whole enterprise: its aims,
its methods, its principles and its
traditions.
The true Dissenter “claims to know


better, and to promote higher causes:
he asserts a superiority, moral or intel-
lectual”. His practical advice may be
anything from isolation to universal in-
terference, but he is invariably con-
temptuous of those actually making
policy, and invariably certain that the
cause of Righteousness (whatever that
happens to be at the moment) is also the
best way of ensuring peace, security, and
even predominance (or influence) for his
country. His policy-prescriptions may
often, in the present phase of affairs,
coincide with those of the Communists,
but Communists are of course not true
Dissenters: they are, as Mr Taylor says,
merely adherents of a rival Establish-
ment.
It has been in part this tendency for
their prescriptions to coincide with those
of the Communists that has made the
most recent generation of Dissenters so
irritating a thorn in the flesh to leaders
like Attlee or, in the local context, Cal-
well. One may reject, for instance,
NATO because one repudiates the whole
apparatus of power-politics or (less in-
terestingly) merely because one is con-
sciously or unconsciously anxious to
serve the cause of Soviet power. Of
the two positions, the first is the more
troublesome and dangerous to someone
like Attlee or Bevin, anxiously putting
the alliance together, because it has more
potentialities for arousing echoes in the
party. Similarly, one might reject a
policy of alliances in the Pacific either
because one refused to accept the reality
(or the relevance) of the power-conflict
there, or merely because, in one’s heart,
one wanted the other side to win. Again
the first position is the more embarrass-
ing to the Labor leader concerned be-
cause of its potentiality for arousing
echoes in the party echoes of past
traditions of thought, like “Fortress Aus-
tralia” as a defence concept.
The spasms of dissent with which Mr
Taylor deals here stretch from those who
protested against the wars with revolu-
tionary France in the late 18th century
to those who complicated the search for
a foreign policy in the Hitler years. As
in most of his lighter works, Mr Taylor
is diverting and infuriating in about
equal measure. Just as one is beginning
to conclude that he would adopt any
stance of intellectual perversity for the
sake of a good phrase, he offers the re-
assurance of an honest judgment. Though
he is a strong anti-Establishment man
himself, he will not omit the warts from
his portrait of the Dissenters, nor endow
them with graces that properly belong
to others. He points out, for instance,
that the few who opposed Munich were
not Dissenters but men from the very
heart of the Establishment—Churchill,
Eden, Duff Cooper, Nicolson, Amery.
In a sense, isolationism is every plain
man’s tendency when he contemplates
the dangerous and vexatious behavior of
the outside world. Mr Taylor properly
gives much space to Cobbett and Cobden
as the patron saints of Dissent in foreign
policy. (The patron saint of the other
side is of course Machiavelli.) Cobbett
regarded all foreign policy as a fraud by
the old order: Cobden said that the
balance of power was “not a fallacy, a
mistake, an imposture, it is an un-
described, undescribable nothing; mere
words conveying to the mind not ideas
but sounds like those equally barren
syllables which our ancestors put together
for the purpose of puzzling themselves
"I was working well until I hit this dry patch."
about words, in the shape of Prester
John or the philosopher’s stone”. Social
radicalism has always accorded well with
foreign policy Dissent, because of the
tendency for most diplomatic establish-
ments to be drawn from the upper classes.
There is a famous compounding of the
two themes in Bright’s speech in 1858
maintaining that “this foreign policy, . . .
this excessive love for the ‘balance of
power’ is neither more nor less than a
gigantic system of outdoor relief for the
aristocracy of Great Britain”. Oddly
enough, the same combination occurs in
the main school of American foreign
policy Dissent. Mr Taylor does not treat
this strand of the tradition, and might
find it somewhat difficult to square with
his professed admiration for the Dis-
senters, but of course the most numerous
and powerful intellectual descendants of
Cobbett and Tom Paine in recent years
have been the traditional isolationists
and the contemporary unilateralists in
America.
If the Labor Left was the most
dangerous enemy to NATO in Britain,
its most formidable American enemy was
Senator Taft and his concept of “Fort-
ress America”. A distrust of alliances,
diplomacy, balance of power policies,
may be as readily motivated by an intel-
lectual (or demagogic) repudiation of
subtleties, or a moral repudiation of com-
promise, as by an ethical repudiation of
power. Senator McCarthy felt the same
way about the genteel Ivy-League mem-
bers of the State Department as Bright
did about the artistocratic sprigs of the
Foreign Office. The stream of populist
resentment in the American West and
South against the North-Eastern Estab-
lishment, a resentment which helped
Senator McCarthy to power, and may
do the same for Senator Goldwater, has
much in common with the equivalent
feeling against the south and the
metropolis in Britain. Senator Gold-
water’s backers even used the phrase
“Eastern establishment clique” against
the Scranton bid for nomination. The
insistence that one is a plain man, taking
a plain unambiguous view of the require-
ments of right and justice in world affairs,
produces eerily similar prescriptions for
foreign policy, no matter what the
period.
“[The government] ought to send as
many ships as they can muster to carry
a message to the [Russian] autocrat,
requesting him in very civil language to
march his Cossacks back from the con-
fines of the dominions [they have over-
run], and, in case of non-compliance, to
take, burn, sink, or destroy or batter
down all they possibly could belonging
to the autocrat.” The Republican Plat-
form in 1964? No, Cobbett in 1822.
CORAL BELL


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Payment Deferred
Overseas capital inflow to Australia is receiving re-
newed political attention during the Senate election
campaign in Australia. Sir Robert Menzies, the Prime
Minister, has already indicated that overseas resources
will be called upon to finance large defence purchases in
the next few years. Once again this emphasises the increas-
ing dependence on overseas investment which, of course,
includes the undistributed profits of overseas companies in
Australia.
Defence expenditure on overseas equipment can be met
in part by overseas borrowings. But the annual interest
(and the eventual repayment) is a charge against Australia’s
international reserves. Unless a consistent inflow of foreign
capital offsets these charges, the cost must be met by
raising our exports. Unfortunately, it already has been
demonstrated in the balance of payments that the apparent
surplus from exports often is turned, into a deficit after
deducting the invisible charges of around £2som. a year
for freight, insurance, etc.
While recognising the need for overseas capital, the
Commonwealth Government has been alive to the prob-
lems involved and has tried to encourage, where possible,
a 50-50 partnership between overseas interests and Austra-
lian business. Also, under the quiet persuasion policy of
Treasurer Mr Harold Holt, the Australian Government
has indicated it would like to see Australian participation
in the subsidiaries of foreign companies. GM-H is a classic
case in point.
The matter has been given greater pertinence by the
increasing realisation of the ultimate cost of overseas capital
in terms of annual dividends and remittance of funds. The
NZ Government recently indicated that the cost of servicing
private capital has grown faster than export income, as a
result of which the NZ Government decided to consider
legislation which will give it reserve power to intervene in
takeover offers.
Neither the NZ nor the Australian Governments want
to scare off the type of overseas investment which is
necessary for the economic development of the country.
If the cost of servicing overseas capital exceeds the capital
inflow, a very dangerous situation will develop.
Australia is not in as tight a position as NZ, but a recent
survey showed that, by 1970, the cost of servicing the
overseas capital may be equal to the capital inflow and,
after that year, could exceed it.
A quiet insistence on joint capital participation is a
better solution, at this stage, than hysterical legislation
which would choke off friends, who are sorely needed. The
Treasury still retains power over repatriation of funds
through Exchange Control and, if it considers that pres-
sures are becoming too hot, it can clamp down.
Sop to Tin Producers
t>Y fixing new floor and ceiling prices for tin, the Inter-
national Tin Council has established levels which are
still well below the open market prices but which are de-
signed to encourage investment in tin mining and promote
production.
Although the Tin Council is trying to promote production
of tin and has forecast a continued shortage of the metal,
the Council is still adopting a cautious view on the effects of
the US Government’s disposal policy with stockpile tin.
It has been said recently that tin buyers in the US prefer
to buy fresh tin supplies rather than stockpile metal from
the General Services Administration because of the claim
that long storage affects the metallurgical quality of tin.
Booming prices for tin on the open market, however, have
caused some buyers to switch to GSA supplies, particularly
in view of the proposal to release an extra 12,000 tons in
the year to March, 1965.
Unfortunately there has been an unhealthy speculation
in tin, prices for which went as high as £stgl 715. The
London Metal Exchange price has since fallen by about
£stg3oo, although still well above the £stgl2oo ceiling at
which buffer stock may be sold.
The ITC floor price for tin, below which the buffer stock
manager is authorised to support the market, has been
raised to £stglQoo a ton, thus assuring producers of this
minimum price until mid-1965. Some say that the buffer
pool manager may not need to support the market for years,
but they are basing their opinion on the fact that this year’s
boom demand will be repeated. Higher prices have en-
couraged rapid expansion by producers (with Renison, for
example, talking of an 11-fold increase in output). With
more marginal producers coming back into operation the
law of supply and demand must make itself felt.
Irrespective of this, if the stockpile releases by GSA take
the edge off crisis buying by users who were caught short,
the tin market could settle down at lower levels. The big
influence then will be just how much and how soon US
stockpile authorities will decide to buy in replenishing their
stocks.
At this stage the immediate outlook for tin remains
strong statistically. This situation could change overnight
if a suitable substitute were found. Buyers have discovered
they have been operating against their own interests by
pushing prices to unrealistic levels, exemplified by wide
fluctuations of as much as £3OO within a short period.
There must be a limit to this type of thing and, once again,
there are complaints that fictitious prices on the LME are
disrupting orderly marketing of the metal.
CONTENTS INCLUDE...
PAGE
Mr Bury and the bankers 59
Queensland on the rack 60
The stove makers 62
"Speculator" on a traders dream 78
Getting "Woolmark" airborne 79


Combination Curry
Tf Australia wants to achieve closer trade links with India,
it will be necessary to explore the possibilities of joint
ventures with Indian businessmen. Unless Australia is
active in this field we may well find other countries gaining
a dominant position in the market, says the October issue
of “Canberra Comments”, official organ of the Associated
Chambers of Commerce of Australia.
This points out the continually stressed need for Austra-
lia to invest more in South and South-East Asia. Although
the desire exists to establish trade links with countries like
India, the fulfilment is fraught with complications.
India, with a balance of payments problem and an acute
food shortage in certain areas, is forced to keep a tight
control on imports and therefore is more interested in the
establishment of a joint venture operation which involves
outside capital and know-how.
The Indian Government has cut some of its red tape in
an effort to encourage new undertakings, but a licence is
necessary for most of the steps along the way in establish-
ing a new business. Capital issues are controlled and the
Indian Government also supervises pricing policies and
sources from which materials may be produced. A relaxa-
tion on some of these measures could be of assistance in
encouraging bona fide industrialists who are willing to enter
into joint enterprises in India.
At the same time, the Indian Government needs to exer-
cise some form of supervision to avoid complications which
could arise from “fly-by-night” promoters.
Iron Ore Galore
T ast week’s release for export of 210 million tons of
iron ore from the proved Mount Newman (WA)
deposits leaves the export position precisely where it was.
Most of the astronomically prolific Western Australian
reserves still have to find buyers.
So far, only one of the consortia formed to develop the
various leased areas has managed to negotiate a firm, and
relatively small, contract. The
Western Mining Corporation-
Hanna - Homestake partner-
ship will supply 5.1 million
tons of ore to a group of
Japanese steel mills over an
eight-year period starting in
1966.
Practically all the Aus-
tralian selling efforts are being
directed towards Japan, em-
phasising transport advantages
and the prevalence of political
stability. Yet it has to be
realised that Japan’s steel-
masters, operating as a group,
drive hard, detailed bargains.
Moreover, they cull their ore
supplies from many different
countries.
On the projected allocations
up to about 1970, Australia
does not seem likely to win
many large contracts.
However, one thing does
stand to favor a reliable and
steady supplier. That is the
tremendous growth of Japan’s
steel industry. Production of
crude steel totalled 34,080,000 tons in 1963-64; it is
estimated to reach between 49 and 53 million tons by 1969.
Representatives from the Mount Newman Iron Ore Co.
(55 p.c. American Metal Climax, 45 p.c. Colonial Sugar
Refining) are soon to embark upon their first negotiatory
talks in Japan. Five other Australian companies are in
the market to sell iron ore and pellets.
Something of the astuteness and “togetherness” of the
Japanese may be gained by considering a deal made last
year with Brazil. The Brazilian Government arranged a
large credit for Japanese railway locomotives. The 500
million dollars is to be paid back over the next 10-15
years — in iron ore!
Slowdown for Copper
Tf some of the wives had had their say, Mount Isa’s grave
industrial trouble would have been over well before
Christmas. Money is getting rather tight in the town for
this time of the year.
Whatever the initial results of the present Court hear-
ings, the effects of the dispute must be apparent for quite
a while. They will not only extend to the immediate copper
supply position, bad though that has become both in Aus-
tralia and overseas. Perhaps of prime importance, Mount
Isa’s development plans have suffered considerable inter-
ference.
The company had already begun to hold tentative
contractual discussions covering the increased production
arising from its expansion programme, a notable element
of which was to be completion of the new K57 shaft late
in 1965.
With an exacerbated shortage of copper inside Aus-
tralia, the Minister for Trade’s ban on the export of copper
metal and scrap was logical and certainly necessary if the
domestic price pattern was not to get completely out of
hand. Even so, and however temporary, the fabricators’
surcharge announced last week can place a sizeable burden
upon building costs.
Should the ban last well into the New Year, another
complication might ensue. Would Mount Morgan feel it
deserved compensation because of the inability to fulfil
Copper Production and Exports
The Federal Government’s ban on the export of copper
metal and scrap became effective on November 21. It
resulted from industrial trouble and close-down of the
smelter at Mount Isa, referred to in an article on this page.
The graph shows Australia’s production and exports of
refined copper between 1959 and 1963. Domestic demand
is now running well above 1963 levels .
its export commitment to
Sumitomo Metal Mining, of
Japan? The “life of the mine”
export of total output is
effective from January 1,
1965.
Previous articles in this sec-
tion of The Bulletin have
emphasised producers’ at-
tempts to stabilise copper
prices and to lift output. Con-
sumers are now expressing the
thought that both efforts have
been rather belated. More
foresight was called for, on
output especially.
So far as Australia is con-
cerned, domestic demand has
lately pressed to unpre-
cedented levels, going to a
1964 annual rate of more than
80,000 tons of primarv refined
copper, or about 15,000 tons
above 1963. The loss of
Mount Isa’s output looks realty
embarrassing taken together
with world shortages. A choice
may be forced between heavier
imports and rationing.


CROESUS
Mr Bury and the Bankers
Seeing through insurance smokescreens
Oupping with statisticians, L. F. Giblin
once said, you need a long spoon.
To sup with bankers, as I did at the
Wales in Melbourne the other night, you
not only need a long spoon but also a
taste for Mr Leslie Bury. Because, at
least between courses, the Minister for
Housing is likely to be served up in
liberal portions just now as the bankers
ponder the short as well as the long
term implications for them of his Bill
to set up a Housing Loans Insurance
Corporation.
It’s a little difficult to see why they
should be worrying about the effect of
the legislation on their current lending.
Though, as it was pointed out, a Bill
aiming to lower the overall interest
charges on borrowings for housing and
thus presumably to increase the amount
of lending would seem to run counter to
the present edict to the banks from Dr
Coombs to restrict their lending on
housing.
This edict is presently a sore point
with the banks because they are not at
all short of funds available for housing
the savings banks deposits, for in-
stance, are still rising at something like
13 p.c. a year and they can now lend
up to 35 p.c. of them for housing. Given
appropriate security and willing bor-
rowers they could lend more. It is only
that they’ve been told, and probably
rightly so, tq watch their step in this
direction.
TTntil the new Housing Loans Insur-
ance Corporation gets going, say in
about three months’ time, its influence
on their lending seems to be only an aca-
demic problem for the banks. Also, in the
long term, there is not expected to be any
conflict between the Reserve Bank’s
attitude on the level of lending for
housing and that of the new Corporation,
or indeed that of the Treasury which
will make the necessary advances to
finance it. Against this, Mr Bury has
intimated that the Government could use
its powers underwritten into the Bill to
direct the Corporation not to ensure par-
ticular classes of loans to influence the
general level of investment in housing.
He also said the Government could use
the Corporation’s powers to influence the
direction of lending to effect a fuller
utilisation of existing housing.
Further, the Corporation will appar-
ently have the last word in assessing
whether a dwelling measures up to the
qualifying standards for its insurance
tag, and the Government intends to use
its power of veto in this direction to help
the acceptance of minimum building
standards and a uniform building code
over the whole country.
Obviously the Government is not vest-
ing such powers in the Corporation for
nothing. This presupposes the need for
the closest co-ordination between Reserve
Bank and Government policy on housing
on the one hand and that of these
authorities and the banks and other
finance institutions who will be doing the
actual lending, and presumably assessing
the risks of lending to individual bor-
rowers, on the other. Nor, from the
banks’ viewpoint, would it seem to be
L. H. E. BURY
simply a matter of the volume of their
lending on housing. Though this will be
most pertinent for them, there is also
the question of the personal assessment
of the applicants for loans. It must be
taken that no loan will come up for the
Corporation’s insurance clearance until
the banks (or some other approved
lender) have approved it.
In effect, what Mr Bury is doing is to
eliminate the need for housing borrowers
to take out expensive second mortgages
to bridge the present gap between what
the banks and other financial institutions,
such as life assurance companies and
building societies, will lend and the
amount of total borrowing required after
the borrower has put up his deposit on
a house. In other words, by insuring
borrowed funds up to as high a pro-
portion as 95 p.c. of the valuation of a
house (or of related expenses such as
on land, roads, alterations, repairs, ex-
tensions, subdividing dwellings, amenities
such as water, electricity and sewerage,
kerbing and footpaths), the Corporation
is aiming to make it “safe” for the banks
and the other institutions to bridge the
gap left by their present scale of lending.
fPwo questions in particular are posed
for the banks. One is whether insur-
ance by the Corporation takes all the risk
out of the housing loans it underwrites.
On the face of it, this is so because the
Bill provides for the insured repayment
of the whole sum lent on a loan (the in-
surance premium charged by the Cor-
portion would be included in the loan).
The second is whether the new procedure
undermines the independence of the
banks in the field of housing loans. In
other words, although the banks gain
from the full insurance of approved
loans, does it put them in a position of
virtual dependence on the Corporation,
which means the Government, in the
housing field?
Presumably the banks could still make
housing loans without getting the Cor-
poration’s insurance ticket, but it is dif-
ficult to envisage this happening on any
scale. It is more likely, perhaps, that
the banks would still turn down many
applications for housing loans on account
of the unsuitability of certain borrowers,
and that these would never come up for
the Corporation’s approval. To that
extent they will retain a certain degree
of independence in the matter. It is un-
likely the banks would proceed with
loans in the event of their being dis-
approved by the Corporation. So, by and
large, it looks as if the real charge of
insurance by the Corporation is the
sacrifice of much of the banks’ indepen-
dence in housing.
Naturally Mr Bury has been careful
to put up as many smokescreens as
possible to allay any likely suspicion on
the part of the banks and the other
major lenders on housing that the Cor-
poration will assume a sort of dictator-
ship over housing, both as to the volume
of lending and the classes of housing to
be financed.
He has gone out of his way, for in-
stance, to give the impression that the
Corporation, which will consist of a
chairman who would also be managing
director, a deputy chairman and three
other members, will act almost indepen-


dently of the Government. He said it
would make its own policy decisions and
would merely have to keep the Minister
informed of any significant policy
decisions it makes.
At this formative stage, however, it is
only sensible for the big housing lenders
to be a bit suspicious of this and to be
taking more notice of the Minister’s own
powers written into the Bill to direct
the Corporation not to insure particular
classes of housing loans and also, his
second reading intimation that the Gov-
ernment in fact sees the Corporation as
eventually having a big influence not only
in the direction of lending on housing
but also on its volume. From this it is
understandable for the banks to be think-
ing in terms of how far their indepen-
dence in making housing loans will be
undermined by the Corporation.
Admittedly, from the borrowers’ view-
point and in the cause of cheaper hous-
ing, something radical was required to
eliminate the high borrowing cost of
finance raised under second mortgage.
Further, the Government had a mandate,
indeed an obligation, to establish the
Corporation. Again, if the Minister is
to be taken at his face value, the activities
of the new body will, at any rate in the
first instance, be on a small scale. But
when all this is said, were all the alterna-
tives fully canvassed? After all, the idea
seemed to come out of the blue at the
election this time last year, when the
Government was bending backwards to
match the ALP’s housing promises.
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
State Put on the Rack
Querulous voices from Queensland
Tt was bound to happen sooner or
'later. Some black sheep have strayed
from the Sunshine State to National
University pastures to tell the story of
why their fellows are dragging their feet
in the forced march of Australian econo-
mic development. In a venomous little
book called “Queensland: Industrial
Enigma” mentioned briefly in this
section last week nothing and nobody
in the State are spared the biting tongues
of the four authors, two being women.
Hearsay has it that Queensland’s poli-
ticians and civic leaders, who get most of
the lashes, have declared it forbidden
fruit for their daughters. According to
the publishers, Melbourne University
Press, sales are going so slowly that
Queenslanders are trying to forget it was
ever written. Hell knowing no fury . . .
one would expect Helen Hughes and
Marion Gough, who combine with
B. J. McFarlane and G. R. Palmer to
write it, to renew their assault on the
State’s economic and political foot-rot.
The origins of the book were innocent
enough. As Dr W. E. G. Salter had
done before them for Australia as a
whole (1957-58), the authors were inter-
ested to know, speaking broadly, how
much new investment would be needed
to spur Queensland’s secondary industry
and at. what points it could best be
applied. There’s no need to go too
deeply here into the techniques they
used to get the answers to this, because,
quite apart from the thinness of indus-
trial activity in Queensland, they couldn’t
have picked a worse year than 1961-62,
when industrial activity was recessed, on
which to base their projections.
However, to make the central (but not
the most interesting) part of the book
intelligible, it had better be explained
that the task involved the calculation of
the amount of investment per additional
male unit required to at least sustain the
new level of technology in the whole of
and in the separate segments of Queens-
land secondary industry. Investment per
F. NICKLIN
male unit is arriving at by multiplying the
labor and investment co-efficients, which
in turn relate inputs of investment and
labor to value added to production, and
of course must be considered together
because changes take place in them
simultaneously.
The authors got most of their data
from answers to a questionnaire sent to
some 889 manufacturers, of whom only
about half sent in usable returns (348
didn’t reply at all!). To that extent the
results can hardly be said to be compre-
hensive of Queensland industry, even
such as it is—a poor mite compared with
NSW and Victoria.
Given this limitation, the survey found
that, with the levels of technology and
capacity utilisation in 1961-62, it would
cost £6lOO to place an additional male
unit employee in Queensland industry and
this woulcCbe reduced to £5OOO on the
assumption of full utilisation of capacity.
Extrapolating to 1964-65, the authors
give from £5600 to £7OOO, a suspiciously
wide range, as the investment per male
unit required in the current year. This
range is based on the assumption that
the structure of Queensland industry will
continue to rely largely on primary pro-
cessing industries, sheltered industries
(those situated within reasonably close
distance to the markets they serve) and,
in the case of metal industries, on
assembling.
The range may be wide, but even the
higher limit to it is low compared with
the findings of Dr Salter for Australia
as a whole, in which a more balanced
industrial structure with a bigger leaven-
ing of heavy industry pertains. If
Queensland introduced heavy industry,
the investment cost per male unit would
rise from the survey’s range because the
preponderance of its present industry is
characterised by low labor co-efficients
and relatively low investment per male
unit.
The authors have done a good job of
economic analysis in that section of the
book and it has been dwelt on accord-
ingly as befitting this column. But the
lively matter is not there at all, rather
first in a section called the manufacturer’s
viewpoint, which is based on a series
of interviews with sixty-six firms in 1962-
63, and second, in a chapter on future
prospects.
As the book says, “in an attempt to
solve the problems of manufacturing
industry there is much to be said for
asking the manufacturers what their pro-
blems are.’’ This is a better approach
for economic field-workers than the
alternative of asking manufacturers how
they are placed in this or that direction,
though in their case the authors appear
to have used a judicious mixture of the
two approaches which is even better.
For that reason, perhaps, they have come
up with a most useful resume of the
constraints and pressures under which
Queensland manufacturers work and
essay expansion. It is well worth study-
ing by businessmen both in Queensland
and other Australian States.
Outsiders will generally be amazed at
the blocks to business and industrial
expansion in Queensland, which the book
begins to warm up on towards the end


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
Registered 19th December, 1929
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,(75,000
UNSECURED NOTES
1 °l
2 /<
o
10 YEARS
7V 4 % -
7-9 YEARS
7%
6 YEARS
6% -- . 3 YEARS
51/2% -- - 2 YEARS
1 O/
A. k
4
o
12 MONTHS
5% - - - 9 MONTHS
4%% - - - 6 MONTHS
4V 4 % - - - 3 MONTHS
HOW TO APPLY
Applications will be accepted only on the printed forms attached
to the Prospectus. Your copy available from all Members of Stock
Exchanges, over 750 Branches of the A.N.Z. Bank and I.A.C*
branches.
Branches at
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
HOBART CANBERRA DARWIN
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and Brisbane.
8740 N
of its discussion on the results of the
interviews with industrial management.
It pulls no punches, particularly on
transport and public services. For
example, “the freight rate structure is
chaotic” and “public services generally
were poor”. Thirty-seven out of 54 of
the Brisbane firms interviewed, as well
as all the country ones, had to provide
their own sewerage and drainage facili-
ties. “City council officials were mainly
blamed for their inability to make de-
cisions for fear of political repercussions
and the council’s long-term planning and
everyday administration appeared to be
inefficient and encumbered with delays
the respondents regarded as unnecessary.”
Queensland is depicted at the begin-
ning of this book as having always
been a land of unfulfilled promise. In the
middle, its economy is seen as “falling
seriously behind the other States”. At
the end the writers are saying that neither
of their surveys gave “any indication of
a quickening pace of investment in total
volume or towards a more balanced
economy”. The Nicklin Government,
like its Labor predecessor under Gair
which was thrown out partly because of
“the prolonged slackness of the economy
I reflected in unemployment, low earnings
and low profits”, failed to eschew a
preference for rural and decentralised
development although finding itself “in-
creasingly concerned with manufacturing
industries”.
The impression given is of unco-
ordinated drift in the growth of the
economy, albeit some of the directions,
for instance in minerals, being applauded.
The great enigma then is that the paths
of development have been “imperfectly
defined, let alone explored”. The briga-
low land clearing and settlement scheme
is attacked, the proposals to establish
an iron and steel works at Gladstone
have “little practical foundation”.
The authors are luke-warm in assessing
the industrialisation prospects opened up
from the State’s oil discoveries, though
“oil is potentially a most valuable natural
resource for Queensland”. They are in
a thoroughly bad mood and go on being
so. “Future prospects for decentralised
industries appear to be even poorer than
present ones.” What they want is to
lift the growth rate by concentrating big
industries in one or two centres. “The
arguments for centralising into units of
250,000 or 500,000 people seem ex-
tremely dubious.”
The last straw of their discontent is
at the end, in their advocacy of the
abandonment of absolute preference for
primary industry and decentralisation as
being “the best policy for the country
as well as the metropolis”. .So one
leaves the book a little worried because,
on this view, the chances of populating
the north of Australia are hopeless.


Not Sitting on a Hotplate
Stove makers fortified by the law
/\ne of the few household appliances
which has no market to penetrate
is the stove, for, by law, every dwelling
must have one. Not unnaturally gas and
electric stove manufacturers are confi-
dent of an increasingly bright future.
They have two markets new homes
and replacement. With the current build-
ing boom and modernisation and re-
decoration of homes, stove production
is running at record levels. The industry
suffered a severe blow in 1961, when
both the new and replacement markets
were diminished by the lack of building
and finance. It was not until 1962-63
that production regained its pre-credit
squeeze level.
The industry has undergone major
changes in the last ten years. With the
advent of automated cooking came
modern design. Now it is commonplace
for manufacturers to change their models
nearly every year. Significant techno-
logical advances have meant easier con-
trol of heat, particularly with the electric
stove. A few years ago hotplates were of
solid construction and wasted not only
heat, but electricity. With the present
coil element there is virtually no waste.
Again with electric stoves, the control
and adjustment of heat has been changed
from the old four-temperature switch to
a switch which gives an infinite number
of positions and temperatures. As far as
the gas stove is concerned, improvements
like automatic igniters, timers, see-
through oven doors (also a feature of the
electric stove) have kept pace with mod-
ern living, making gas competitive with
the electric stove.
The following table shows production
and the share of the market of gas and
electric stoves for the last nine years:
. l i
Year ending Gas Share Electric Share
June (000's) % (000's) %
1956 54.1 34.3 47.8 30.3
1957 54.0 34.6 51.9 33.2
1958 56.0 35 55.1 34.3
1959 66.4 38.3 63.8 36.8
1960 79.6 42 73.4 38.5
1961 73.1 42 69.2 39.7
1962 67.6 39.1 76.3 44.1
1963 68.5 34.6 101.8 51.5,
1964 77.4 34.4 119 53
An insignificant number of imported
stoves (in 1955-56, 8200 were imported
and they shared 5.21 p.c. of the market;
in 1963-64 only 120 were imported and
had 0.05 p.c. of the market) and solid
fuel stoves account for the rest of the
domestic cooking appliance market
supply.
From the table it can be seen that
while the gas stove’s share of the market
has remained fairly static, the share
taken by electric stoves has risen (at
the expense of the solid fuel stove). The
two markets into which stoves go are
roughly balanced. The following table
shows the breakdown of new homes
completed and the replacement market.
Since there can be no further market
penetration, the size of the replacement
market could be presumed to be nearly
100 p.c. correct.
Year New Replace-
ending homes Share ment Share
June completed % demand %
(000's) (000's)
1956 72.6 46.12 84.80 53.88
1957 69.5 44.52 86.60 55.48
1958 73.3 45.73 87.00 54.27
1959 81.7 47.23 91.30 52.77
1960 91.3 47.98 99.00 52.02
1961 94.5 54.34 79.40 45.66
1962 86.2 49.40 86.75 50.60
1963 87.7 44.41 109.78 55.59
1964 96.6 43.01 128.02 56.99
(prelim.)
A spokesman for Email Ltd said the
industry could expect increasing demand
in the future, first because the number
of new houses and flats is scheduled to
increase substantially, and secondly be-
cause the relatively dormant replacement
market is expected to accelerate in the
next few years. “The market splits into
two segments with built-in models being
sold in the main to the new homes and
the dearer models to the replacement
market.”
Email makes stoves under three brand
names Carmichael-Parkinson (gas and
electric), Westinghouse and Electrice
(both electric only).
The facelift given to stoves and the
frequent model changes have caused at
least one manufacturer to get out of the
industry. For obvious reasons the com-
pany did not want to be quoted, but an
executive told The Bulletin that the
cost of retooling for model changes and
the stiff competition in the industry had
forced the company to discontinue stove
production.
“We just could not afford to keep
changing our models every year. Com-
petition reached such ridiculous levels
that it was more profitable to get out
than stay in,” he said.
Largest stove manufacturer in Austra-
lia is Metters, a member-company of the
General Industries group. Managing
director of General Industries Mr J. B.
Clarkson said the sale of electric stoves
predominated “because of the widespread
reticulation of electricity. However, with
the discovery of commercial quantities
of natural gas we can look forward to
an increasing demand for gas stoves.
“The increase in the sale of electric
ranges has been aided by the develop-
ment of much more efficient heating
elements. They have changed from the
solid plate to the radiant element, which
is now becoming universally accepted as
the most efficient form of cooking.
Natural gas will widen the field for gas
cooking far beyond the reach of the
mains. The demand for stoves which run
off bottled gas has been growing in the
last few years.
“The replacement market for stoves is
very big. More and more the trend is
to centre the living area in the home
around the kitchen. This means the
housewife requires better looking and
more efficient stoves. Generally, when a
kitchen is redecorated a new stove is
installed. Historically the stove is some-
thing which is put into the new home and
expected to last as long. Today, whilst
there is no less quality built into the
stove, advances in design and efficiency
tend to obsolesce them sooner than in
earlier times. There has been a big
swing to the built-in oven, with the
cooking top separate, in both privately I
built homes and in the larger home- I
development projects.


Tec-Felt can ease costs and
increase plant product efficiency
The questions are simply where and
how much will Tec-Felt save you?
Tec-Felt has thousands of applications
and yet the industrial felt specialists at
Felt and Textiles are constantly finding
new uses for felt and new felt for uses.
They will develop a felt for your needs.
For instance, of the almost 1,000 types,
grades and colours of Tec-Felt only
about 200 are standard.
Tec-Felt can be manufactured to con-
form to a specific thickness, a specific
resilience, a specific shape, absorption
and density. It can be brought to almost
any consistency of softness or hardness.
It can be proofed against moths, flame,
water, fungi and corrosion. Write for
that free book today.
a
m
m
/ ■
mem
This heavy roll grinder, in the John Lysaght (Australia) Ltd. mill at Port Kembla, is
cushioned on a hidden layer of Laminated Vibrasorb Anti-vibration Tec-Felt. The
grinder is completely isolated from the rest of the building.
SS £
m
"Si
|>M«l
a
Polishers from tiny polishing discs
for precious stones to large buffing
wheels are available in Tec-Felt.
Vibrations in this metal stamping press
at Gadsden-Hughes Ltd., Five Dock,
N.S.W., are isolated by Vibrasorb Blue
Line Tec-Felt. The pads bond to machine
and floor —anchor bolts are eliminated.
FREE BOOK
Write on your
Company stationery:
Industrial Felt
Sales, 791 Botany
Road, Waterloo,
N.S.W.
Phone MU 2451
FF69J
Tec-Felt
The Industrial Felt Sales Division of Felt and Textiles is the
developer and producer of Industrial Felts in Australia


NOW OPEN!
THE
SYDNEY WATER BOARD
Conversion and Cash
LOAN
/ /
%
For 7 Years
£5Y*
Unconditionally guaranteed by
the N.S.W. Government
An Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queensland,
Western Australia and Tasmania.
CONVERSION
Holders of Stocks and Debentures in Loans Nos. 59
and 65 (£3/5/-%, maturing Ist December next) are
invited to renew their investment in this new Loan
offering HIGHER interest.
CASH INVESTORS
can secure the same favourable terms.
CONVERT OR INVEST
at any office of the Commonwealth Trading Bank;
Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of
New South Wales; Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney Limited; English, Scottish and Australian Bank
Limited; Rural Bank of New South Wales; Through
a Stockbroker; Or at the Sydney Water Board offices.
i!
!
dJ
MWSS3
HELP
LEGACY
all the year
round
“Generally the housewife likes to stay
with her old stove because she’s used to
cooking with it. She knows all its
quirks. As long as she can cook a good
meal with it she is reluctant to change.
What manufacturers have to do is give
her a stove which fits in with her cook-
ing habits, adding modern conveniences
such as automation, see-through doors
and so on.”
Apart from being the largest gas and
electric stove manufacturer, Metters is
also the largest maker of slow com-
bustion or solid fuel stoves. Mr Clark-
son sees continuing, but decreasing, sales
of this type of stove. He said there was
a big demand for them in Bunbury,
Western Australia, where wood was
readily and economically available, and
in New Guinea, where they sent several
hundred units a month. However, sales
are declining, “but not nearly as fast as
we expected’*
A spokesman for Frigidaire (wholly
owned by General Motors) said the elec-
tric stove’s share of the market would
grow in the next few years “mainly be-
cause of a growing public interest created
by advertising, better product knowledge
on the retailers’ part and the fact that
today retailers are stocking wider ranges
of stoves. The prospect of automatic
cooking will prove a good selling feature
along with the improvements, which are
still coming, in quality, design and addi-
tional features.
“The retailers’ product knowledge has
been very important, especially regarding
trade-ins. One of the big reasons for
growth to date has been the advent of
discriminating women buyers. Twenty
years ago they left the choice of a stove
to the builder of their new home. Today
they like to shop around themselves as
they do with refrigerators. It pays them
to spend time comparing.
“Competition with gas is fairly strong,
mainly through advertising. Between the
electric stove manufacturers themselves
there is strong competition too, although
it must be realised that prices vary
widely from the mass production units
installed in, say, Housing Commission
iiomes to the high priced units carrying
extensive extra features. No matter what
the trends in the future may be, the gas
and electricity utilities will continue to
merchandise and promote actively.
“They must in order to absorb their
own supplies.”


01
AUSTRALIAN EQUITY
CORPORATION LTD
NEW ISSUE
£500,000 OF DEBENTURE STOCK
0
5 YEARS & OVER
4 YEARS
1%
2
3 YEARS
6 %
2 YEARS
12 MONTHS
Applications will proceed only on the form referred to
and enclosed in the prospectus which can be obtained from:
# Australian Equity Corporation Ltd
365 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, 67-7701
9-13 Bligh Street, Sydney
34-36 Hanson Street, Adelaide
376 Queen Street, Brisbane
156 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
152 Macquarie Street, Hobart
Cnr. Petrie and Bunda Streets, Canberra City
# The Cojnmercial Banking Company of Sydney
Limited at any of its branches.
# Any member of a Recognised Stock Exchange
in Australia.
6075
MARKET POINTERS
Little Change Before Christmas?
Few hopes of a strong market lift
Tt is a common greeting in the street
these days for those interested in
the share market to ask “What can we
buy to make a profit?”
Few seem to have definite convictions
that a stock can be bought for an assured
rise before Christmas.
In fact, brokers generally seem to feel
that it is hard to see a strong lift in the
market before the end of the year.
Nevertheless there are many who are
convinced that sound equity shares are
a worthwhile proposition as a hedge
against inflation.
★ ★ ★
lnternational Lead - Zinc Study
Group is saying there will be a
shortage of lead and zinc for two years.
Yet it was only a year ago that dismal
forecasts were being made of an over-
supply of metal and the necessity to
stock-pile “at grass”.
The latest forecast, combined with
booming metal prices overseas, promoted
renewed interest in lead-zinc shares last
week, with Broken Hill South getting an
extra lift because of its added interest
in copper.
With the annual meetings just over,
the optimistic remarks made by chair-
men have drawn more attention to lead-
zinc shares at this time of the year.
However, it is as well not to become too
enthusiastic, because a few additional
price rises can offset a dividend payment
anyway.
The time to buy was when the outlook
was dull, for which many shareholders
in CRA now rejoice.
★ ★ ★
4 ssociated Portland Cement came
on at relatively good prices of
around 14s. 9d., compared with the issue
price of 12s.
The market has since eased as stags
unloaded. There could be some re-
covery later on and it is being suggested
that 15s. could be their price round about
March or April next year. Those con-
nected with the Blue Circle group in
London no doubt will be inclined to buy
if there is any weakness in the shares.
debentures should get a good re-
ception when they come on the
market. The issue is open only to CSR
shareholders and debenture holders.
There are no renounceable rights. Lists
close December 21.
Total amount sought is sizeable at
£sm., with the right to accept oversub-
scriptions of up to £2m. Interest rates
of 6i p.c. for the five year term and
7 p.c. for the 10-15 year term are likely
to attract institutional backing and, for
this reason, the market is expected to
pay a premium.
Those CSR shareholders, therefore,
who take up a parcel of debentures,
should be able to make a small profit if
they want to sell.


FACTS?
THE BANK OF
NEW ZEALAND
has all the
answers
k.
Whatever facts you need to know
... The Bank of New Zealand not
only has the answers but all the
facilities to assist you. With
nearly 400 branches and agencies
the B.N.Z. offers the most experi-
enced and widespread con-
sulting service in the Dominion.
Your enquiries will be more than
welcome.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
339 George Street
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street
HEAD OFFICE:
Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
Savings Bank facilities in New Zealand,
Fiji and Western Samoa.
Branches in London and the Fijian islands.
Agents throughout the world.
13M
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C DRAPES
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIfc
G. H. STEPHENS
(Mevibers o1 Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH:
2 Denham Street Phone: 6089
INVESTMENT
New Biscuit Implications
Domestic scene changed by Nabisco
"VTow that the American-controlled food
group, Nabisco, has finally revealed
the date when it intends to start manu-
facturing biscuits in Australia, the public
flotation of the Australian Biscuit Co.
may be brought closer. After the sounds
of tne takeover battle between the two
companies for Swallows had died away
earlier this year, the ABC said it would
float publicly as soon as possible but
the move would not take place for about
two years. The group—Arnotts, Irock-
hoffs, Guests, Swallows—has about 80
p.c. ot the nation's biscuit market.
However, the Nabisco group stated last
week that it would be producing some-
time in 1967 from a 27-acre site at
Broadmeadows (Vic.). This means that
the ABC float, due any time from mid-
-1966 on, will be going to the public
under a considerable shadow of doubt
over its future prospects. From 1967
on, the old biscuit market just won't be
what it used to be.
The question is whether the company
will have any particular use for the
money from its float. Certainly no fur-
ther expansion will be made in the
biscuit market. Under normal circum-
stances the proceeds would just be extra
money in the pockets of the ABC ven-
dors. But, considering the dynamic suc-
cess of the Nabisco group in America,
it is a foregone conclusion that the ABC
will need all its cash resources to combat
severe competition and possibly play-it-
wise by diversifying.
Therefore, the more cash it can raise
at the float the better. The problem will
be for the company to raise enough
to maintain the prosperity it has enjoyed
in past years, in the light of the fact
that would-be shareholders may not wish
to pay too high a premium on scrip in
a company whose future profitability will
face a new. strong rival. Will the direc-
tors instigate an earlier-than-expected
float to raise as much as possible before
the existence of Nabisco becomes a
glaring fact in the market? The trouble
is that, if they do, this is virtually ad-
mitting the fact that Nabisco is expected
to make serious inroads.
Kaiiris Future
reconstructed timber group, Kauri
Holdings, has removed shareholders’
doubts by earning 13.1 p.c. on capital
in 1963-64 and declaring a 10 p.c. divi-
dend, as predicted at the time of recon-
struction. There were anxieties earlier
this year vhen the interim report an-
nounced a half-yearly payout of only
4 p.c. However, the company was
merely adopting a policy of declaring
small interims and larger final payouts.
If the directors had made the situation
clear at the time, then nc doubt the ss.
shares would have kept well above par
over the past few months. Instead, the
market exercised a justified caution and
rarely took them above ss. 3d.
At present, the scrip appears to offer
little but high income from the dividend
yield. Earnings are still too low in an
industry which is supposedly booming.
Anything greater than a minor setback
would endanger the dividend. For 1964-
65, at least, the situation looks secure.
Sales are up 10 p.c. so far and the group
will benefit substantially from interest
savings over the full year. More than
£1.3 million was written off liabilities in
1963-64.
From a longer view, the essential thing
to watch for is big profit increases.
Without these, earnings cannot be built
up or maintained, mainly because the
day will come when past losses run out
and tax benefits cease. The latest result
of £213,000 was after the provision of a
mere £6BOO tax.
Hard Retailing
Tj\)LLOWiNG bad reports from several
Sydney city retailers, it's refreshing
to find one who announces good news.
Nock and Kirby, primarily a hardware
retailer in the centre of the city, in-
creased profit almost five-fold in the year
to August 31.
Latest result is £100,033 (giving an
earning rate of 8.9 p.c. on ordinary
capital of £1,119,860), compared with the
previous year's disastrous £21,769 when
earning rate shrank to 1.9 p.c. The 5 p.c.
dividend paid in 1962-63 is continued,,
although this time it is covered. The
market is not happy about the shares,
however, and after the announcement
added only 3d. to bring them up to
9s. 9d., still under 10s. par.
Tax on the latest result was £44,021
(last year £20,513) and depreciation at)
£61,771 was virtually steady. Directors
say retail sales of the group showed a
“gratifying” increase during the
despite difficult trading conditions in the
latter part of the year. Profit remainei
after writing off all bad debts anl
making an increased provision for doubt-1
fui debts.


Invest in
INTEREST
UP TO
FOR
5
YEARS
INVESTMENT
PERIOD
DEBENTURE
STOCK
UNSECURED
NOTES
COMPOUND DEBENTURE STOCK
5-20 YEARS 61%
PAID UP CAPITAL £8,950,000
Applications only accepted on printed forms included in the
prospectus obtainable from: all branches of the Bank of
New South Wales. Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch.
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
A.G.C. House
Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney O 2 0324
ASK THE 'WALES' FOR DETAILS
UD7.N.
The directors’ report contains a sober-
ing note, though. They say it is still
difficult to obtain an adequate return on
capital employed in the business. With
building at its present high level a greater
return could be expected in the current
year, so an investment before the interim
report is due next June could show some
appreciation.
Engineering Records
lndustries Ltd, heavy engineer,
has set yet another profit record
with a lift of 16 p.c. t0"£835,059. The
directors’ optimism (they say results for
the first quarter of the current year indi-
cate higher sales and profit than the pre-
vious year) could mean a similar story
next year.
Profit remained after tax at £352,904
(last year £258,760) and depreciation of
£435,692 (£456,775) and represented an
earning rate on ordinary capital of 22.5
p.c., a healthy gain on last year's 19.2
p.c. The 15 p.c. dividend is continued.
Chairman Mr E. R. Purves says in his
annual report that conditions during the
year were increasingly competitive. The
record profit followed a general overall
improvement in operating efficiences.
The company's ss. shares are selling
at the moment for around 12s. 9d. They
seem fairly valued and could appreciate
further if Clyde's expectations come true.
Steady Healing
XT ad A. G. Healing not had the benefit
of tax losses it would have recorded
a lower profit in its latest year. As it is,
profit advanced only £9Bl to £575,900,
adding a microscopic 0.1 p.c. to the
earning rate to make it 18.2 p.c. A
steady 12 p.c. dividend is paid.
Tax provision is down £75,762 to
£235,000 but no figure for depreciation
is given in the preliminary report. Last
year it was £195,158. Directors say
sales for the current year were higher
than in the corresponding period last year
and orders held are satisfactory. The
company's ss. shares are available at
the moment for about 7s. 9d.
Fun and Games
TI/Ir G. Schaffer, managing director of
the successful Perth, brick group,
Calsil, continues undaunted in his efforts
to gain control of the miserably un-
successful Frankston (Vic.) brick maker,
Colortone Holdings. The latter’s annual
meeting on December 8 promises to be
very lively. Mr Schaffer is one of a
number of shareholders who are organ-
ising themselves in an effort to have four
of their nominees fill positions on the
board for the current year. Two existing
directors will be retiring by rotation, and
a resolution will be put to increase the
size of the board from five to seven. If
the resolution fails, then only two
vacancies will be available.
It was slightly more than a year ago
when Mr Schaffer first attempted to buy
out the ailing Colortone personally with
a couple of cash bids and some caustic
comments about the firm’s management.
He failed to gain the necessary number
of shares but, after the company had
slid further downhill and Calsil had been
listed for the first time in Perth, he made
another bid through Calsil itself. Success
would have been the first stage of Aus-
tralia-wide expansion planned by the
company.
In a desperate attempt to prevent
acquisition, Colortone went to the
Supreme Court on the grounds that the
bid did not comply with the terms of
the Companies Act. The Court granted
this point but could not see any reason
why it should intervene. Nevertheless,
Calsil withdrew its bid and, at the end of
October, another bid came, this time
from Land Finance Properties, an un-
listed company. At the time of going to
press, the percentage acceptance to this
bid is unknown.
It is not likely to be very high, so The
attendance of a third faction at the
annual meeting is assured. It will be a
fiery meeting indeed and, for the good of
shareholders in the long run, it is hoped
that Mr Schaffer and his efforts will meet
with some success.
Stack*s Down
|>rofit of Stack and Co. Ltd, Sydney
Holden, Chevrolet and Pontiac
dealer, crashed to one of its lowest-ever
figures in the year to June 30. The
£63,013 was half the previous year’s
£127,412 and, as a result, dividend has
been trimmed from 15 p.c. to 12i p.c.


Pldl
HH
MERCANTILE CREDITS LTD.
DEBENTURE ISSUE
Paid-up capital, £3,300,000
Trustee for debenture holders:
The M.L.C. Nominees Limited.
Directors of Mercantile Credits Ltd.:
D. C. Cameron (Chairman), M. D. Thompson (Managing),
D. F. P. Roth, J. T. Reid, H. W. Hattersley, J. A. H.
Saunders, C. J. Stevens, G. P. Stubbs (alternate for
J. A. H. Saunders).
Applications accepted only on application form attached
to and referred to in a printed copy of the prospectus.
Obtain prospectus from any member of a recognised
Stock Exchange in Australia, any branch of Australia
and New Zealand Bank Ltd., or any office of Mercantile
Credits Ltd.
Interest payable every 3 months
LONG-TERM INCOME
7i?o „ ,
8 and 10 years
7% M .
5 years
2 years
SHORT-TERM INCOME
5i% M.
12 months
6 months
3 months
MERCANTILE CREDITS LTD.
Head Office: 10-14 Underwood Street, Sydney.
A.C.T.: 33 Ainslie Avenue, Canberra City.
Victoria: 118 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: Ist Floor, Grand Central Arcade, Elizabeth
Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 329 King William Street, Adelaide.
Westr-n Australia: 115 St. George's Terrace, Perth.
Company activities throughout
the Commonwealth include hire
purchase, leasing, general finance.
laaa
S 3 Q 3
aaa
> OFFICE. SYDNEY I
1254/64
This, however, is not covered by the latest
earning rate of 10.7 p.c. Last year
earning rate was 21.9 p.c.
Tax of £19,550 compares with 1962-
63's provision of £50,680 and deprecia-
tion at £17,738 is down £5075. Direc-
tors say the main factor for the slump
in profit was the expense of establish-
ment and expansion of used-car outlets
which was not anticipated. This section
of the group’s activities is now function-
ing satisfactorily and, “subject to any
unforeseen difficulties, should play a sig-
nificant part in the company's future”.
Total turnover of the group (which in-
cludes Peter Lloyd, merged with Stack
in July, 1962) rose 20 p.c. to £2 million.
Peter Lloyd contributed £53,361 to the
consolidated profit, compared with its
previous year’s £45,839. This means that
Stack’s share of profits has fallen from
about £Bl,OOO to less than £lO,OOO.
The ss. shares are certainly not under-
priced at their present 6s. 9d.
Affair to Remember
tpHE annual meeting of Stanhill Deve-
-*■ lopment Finance on Friday, Novem-
ber 27, promises to be the most raucous
ever held by a company in the Korman
group. A few weeks ago the investigator
appointed by the State Government (Mr
Peter Murphy, QC) suggested that the
Government itself should consider wind-
ing the company up in the interests of
noteholders, shareholders and the public.
But a circular to shareholders from the
SDF chairman (Mr N. W. Strange) last
week sets out in detail a scheme of
arrangement designed to prevent wind-
ing up and give the company a chance
of “trading itself out of its difficulties”.
Even if shareholders approve the
scheme, it will be useless until it gets
Supreme Court approval too. To achieve
this, the approval of debenture holders,
unsecured creditors and noteholders is
also needed. The scheme follows con-
ferences and discussions with the trustee
for the noteholders and SDF’s receiver,
so possibly it will have their sanction
even though Mr Murphy may have :
strong opinions in the other direction,
The receiver has said that he will attend
the annual meeting and there is also a
chance that he will be making some sort
of statement.
As things stand now it seems that the
scheme has a good chance of being
passed, mainly because it offers better
cash recoveries than would be available
under liquidation. Noteholders and cre-
ditors will get £l5 cash and £7 10s. in
shares as full discharge for every £lOO
worth of debt, while shareholders will
suffer a capital write-down from the pre->
sent £750,000 to £75,000. Under
liquidation, only £lO 10s. at a maximum


CLAUDE
NEON
(Established 1930)
Association of Great Names Series
’■ZZZ
£
B
GOLD
TOP
BEERS
Sky Sign, for Melbourne and Bulimba Beers, at Story Bridge, Brisbane, Old.
For the look of leadership’
SIGNS AND LIGHTING
ON THE
LEASE-MAINTENANCE PLAN
Defails without cost or obligation
CLAUDE NEON LTD
Sydney: 67-0488
Melbourne: 37-2257
Brisbane: 68-2481
Adelaide: 53-2291
Perth: 86-2461
Hobart: 3-3994
ALSO AT LAUNCESTON, NEWCASTLE, TOWNSVILLE AND WAGGA
SALES & SERVICE THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
RHEUMATISM
and
RICH LIVING!
Medical sources have long recognised that gout, neuralgia,
fibrositis and all forms of rheumatic pains are very often
caused by the rich food and drink associated with a high
standard of living. If you suffer the agony of muscular
pain and stiffness in the joints, KINTEX tablets will give
fast and lasting relief. The KINTEX colchicine formula is
fast, effective and non-habit-forming. This tested 3-week
treatment is used and recommended by medical experts.
Price 16/6 from your chemist, or Mail Order from Kinfort
Laboratories, Box 9, P. 0., Lane Cove, N.S.W.
Relief from pain with
KINTEX
would be receivable for every £lOO and
shareholders would get absolutely
nothing.
The scheme also involves the raising
of at least £400,000 in fresh share capital
and 8 p.c. loan money. The fact that
this is supposed to be available from in-
stitutions suggests that the scheme has
or will gain approval elsewhere. Any-
way, it would be completely ridiculous
and render the scheme useless if direc-
tors were hoping to go to the public.
So, at the time of going to press, the
chances of another Korman company
being resurrected are most prominent,
depending on the opinions of the
Supreme Court.
Worth Attention
At about 9s. and yielding a handsome
5.5 p.c. from the 10 p.c. dividend,
the ss. shares of Melbourne-based Sima-
lex are worth a closer perusal. The
outlook for this manufacturing chemist's
1964-65 year is now even rosier than it
was last May, when The Bulletin first
discussed the current year's prospects. At
the annual meeting last week, chairman
Mr H. P. Simpson said profits would see
a marked increase, thanks to recent
acquisitions which were expected to play
the major part in lifting group sales from
last year's £2.4 million to £3.5 million.
He was referring to the takeover last
July of Hillcastle and its subsidiary,
Eugene. The two companies, formerly
subsidiaries of Farmers (Holdings), manu-
facture toiletries and hair preparations.
Their total annual turnover is in the vici-
nity of £1 million. While this will boost
group sales and add to the asset backing
of Simalex scrip, earning rates must leap
considerably as the moves did not in-
volve share issuing or the raising of
external loan funds.
Group earning rate in 1963-64 was
14 p.c., up from 12.7 p.c. in the pre-
vious year. There is every possibility
that this figure will reach 20 p.c. or more
in the current year. Such being the
case, shareholders may well see a divi-
dend lift at least. The last issue was
in 1961-62, the company’s first full year
on the public lists, when earnings on
average capital equalled 19 p.c.
Capital Ambiguity
Statements by the chairman of Sid-
dons Industries at last week’s annual
meeting gave further weight to share-
holders’ hopes for a new issue. The Mel-
bourne-based drop forger and tool maker
is planning for big extensions to its
manufacturing facilities in 1964-65. The
expansion will introduce new products to


CAMBRIDGE
■ CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
C%P
Incorporated under the Companies Act
of N.3.W. on March 8, 1950
6, 8 or 10 YEARS
UNSECURED
NOTES
m
®
3 YEARS
CURRENCIES
AND INTEREST RATES
Currency
3 Months
6 Months
12 Months
2 Years
3 Years
4 Years
5 Years
6, 8
or 10 Years
Debenture
Stock
6%% P.A.
7% P.A.
7 1 / 4 % P A-
7 1 / 2 % P A.
73/4% PA.
8% P.A.
Unsecured
Notes
Applications can only be accepted on the
form attached to and referred to in the
prospectus.
HOW TO INVEST
Application forms and prospectus may
be obtained from:
• Any Branch of the BANK OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
• Any Member of the Stock Exchange.
• THE COMPANY’S OFFICES: Cam-
bridge House, 249 George Street,
Sydney. ’Phone 27-8621.
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Canberra, Newcastle.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
I Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, a copy
of your Prospectus.
3732
NAME
ADDRESS
7/SC
the group, as well as increasing output
in the lines which it already supplies to
the automotive and building industry.
Mr R. Siddons gave no hints as to
how the project would be financed. He
merely made the ambiguous comment
that “close attention” had been given to
financing.
There will be much discontent if share-
holders are not asked to the party. The
ss. scrip has risen by more than 2s.
since the 1963-64 results were released.
These announced a steady dividend of 10
p.c. despite a big jump in the earnings
rate from 14.4 p.c. to 25.8 p.c. There
have not been any capital benefits since
1956-57, when a one-for-four par issue
was made. Prior to that was a three-for-
ten at par in 1952-53.
CRA’s Bonus
giant Conzinc Riotinto of Australia
A Ltd group is to make a three-for-
ten bonus issue, its first since the amalga-
mation of the Australian and New Zea-
land interests of Consolidated Zinc Cor-
poration and Rio Tinto Mining Co. of
Australia Ltd in 1962.
To make the issue, which will raise
paid capital from £10,683,028 to
£13,887,936, the company will dip into
share premium reserve which, according
to the last balance sheet contained
£20,408,083. It is part of total share-
holders’ funds of £42,150,909. Direc-
tors say the shares will receive the
expected 8 p.c. final dividend for the
current year.
The bonus follows the company’s in-
terim report in August, which said pro-
fits were significantly higher in the June
half year. Profits so far this financial
year have been increased by higher metal
prices and increased sales. Last year’s
profit rose from £4,077,488 to
£4,905,004, equal to a very healthy
45.8 p.c. earning rate.
Hopeful Hattam
esteemed lan Potter and Co.-Aus-
tralian United Corporation under-
writing partnership gives a certain
attraction to the flotation of E. C. Hat-
tam, a long-established department store
chain operating in several Melbourne
suburbs. This is the first retail group to
float in the city for about 10 years.
Without the Potter “seal of approval”,
the mediocre and sometimes disastrous
history of many retailers in recent times
would undoubtedly cause most investors
to shy away from the new company.
The element of unattractiveness or un-
certainty is well reflected by the fact that
Hattam will hand out its rrs. snares for
only ss. 6d. This premium is extremely
low when compared with the most recent
flotations. However, without a prospectus
and the performance history of past
years, it would be unfair at this stage to
pronounce any further on the company’s
prospects.
Dividends have been predicted at 9 p.c.
on the 400,000 shares which will be
issued to the public. The new holding
company will acquire the group’s stores.
They are at Oakleigh, Cheltenham, Dan-
denong, Ringwood, Croydon, Sunshine,
Bentleigh, Moonee Ponds, Belgrave,
Reservoir, Footscray and Carnegie (where
head office is near the site of the original
shop which was opened in 1927). The
first six stores possibly offer the best
growth possibilities as they are in suburbs
where population is expanding.
The chain specialises in clothing and
softgoods. These include men’s, boys’,
ladies’, children’s and baby wear, man-
chester, furnishings and dress goods,
Sales last year topped £1.4 million.
End of an Era
one-for-five premium issue to be
A made by Woodmason’s Ltd is prob-
ably an epilogue to the extremely
lucrative period shareholders have en-
joyed since 1961. During that time profits
have risen from £lB,OOO to £44,000
and earning rates from 12.3 p.c. to
more than 20 p.c. Dividend has been
raised every year to the latest 1963-64
peak of 121 p.c.
This has been achieved in the face of
capital increases. In 1962-63 there was
a one-for-three par issue and in 1963-64
a placement at a 7s. 3d. premium.
Despite these and the higher dividend
commitments, the Melbourne-based cold-
storage, quick-freezing and iceworks
operator has managed to increase tangible
assets so that, at present, each 10s. share
has a backing of 14s. 4d.
The latest issue carries a ss. premium.
"Spare a decimal?"


As the Maraschino Cherry
said to the Italian Vermouth
G
WHY
IS SUCH A GREAT INTERNATIONAL GIN
WITH^ S X~
wmrnmmm
P: :
; ‘GIN AND IT'. (Sweets for the sweet.) Two parts Gilbey’s Gin, one part sweet Italian Vermouth. Stir with ice. Add
I Maraschino Cherry. Don't worry if the Maraschino cherries aren't from Dalmatia. As long as the Gin is Gilbey's!
i’tWi'iitivi'iVriit'v'-'--
The shares were selling at 225. 9d. before
the announcement, so shareholders will
make some handsome capital gains.
However, it may be some time before
anything further comes their way now.
The company’s growth is necessarily
slowing and dividends are already fairly
hi s h -
At the annual meeting last month,
chairman George Legg said trading for
1964-65 had not opened particularly
well because of a continued fall in the
quantity of meat being offered by Aus-
tralia for export. But with reasonable
seasonal and economic conditions, he
felt that increased rental income would
produce satisfactory profit for the full
year. A substantial setback would have
to occur before the 121 p.c. dividend
rate was endangered on the new capital.
This is unlikely, however, so directors
are confident of maintaining dividends.
Drylec Drying Up?
VTSW Hoover distributor, Drylec Ltd,
it appears, will follow in the path of
its Victorian counterpart, Consumer
Services Ltd, with a voluntary liquidation
following the termination of its Hoover
franchise.
Although not yet certain, a return of
capital to Drylec’s shareholders “subject
to further developments” has been
decided by the board after it has
“examined a number of avenues in an
endeavor to provide adequately profitable
venues” for shareholders’ capital. If the
holding company is wound up the direc-
tors see no difficulty in continuing the
finance subsidiary, Australian Accep-
tance Ltd.
The Hoover franchise expires at the
end j une next which time
shareholders ’ could expect a return of
about gg a share (maybe more> ag trading
for the first part of the current fi nanc i a ]
year, say directors, is ahead of last year),
If this ig go? the 5g shares? at present at
75., are fairly priced in view of broker-
age charges.


Established 1908
Roseville College
A Private School for Girls
ENROLMENT 1965
Enquiries are now invited for student entry for the 1965 school
year.
Curriculum covers all subjects to Leaving Certificate Honours
classes commence from Kindergarten.
All academic subjects are taught by graduate teachers with
maximum classes of 30 pupils.
The school is noted for the individual attention given to each
student, and parents of prospective students are invited to discuss
all aspects of their daughters' education with the Principal.
Please address enquiries for further details and brochures to:
MRS M. HIGGINS, B.A.
Principal,
29 Bancroft Aye., Roseville.
Phone: 41 3461
COMPUTER
PROGRAMMER
We have a vacancy for a Computer Programmer with sound
experience in the programming of tape and/or disc systems.
This is an excellent opportunity for a progressive, energetic and
experienced Computer Specialist to engage in advanced systems,
design and planning.
We will pay a commencing salary up to £2,750 per annum for
the right person.
Write to
The Salaried Employment Officer,
Head Office
FORD MOTOR COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
BROADMEADOWS, VICTORIA
A Reid Murray Breach?
A small Melbourne stockbroking firm, John N. Robertson,
Thompson and Co., has startled clients by showing them
how to make some money on the Reid Murray group’s in-
famous debentures. The mere concept of such a thought
would undoubtedly see most people turning their backs on
the idea. However, as the firm points out, it is this very
attitude which has allowed the debentures of companies under
receivership and liquidation to become a neglected sector of
the stock market. The returns from Factors and Rockmans
illlustrated only too well that over-caution can be as much
a vice as over-enthusiasm where investment is concerned.
Each £lOO guaranteed debenture of Reid Murray Acceptance
(there have been nine issues, of which one was not guaranteed
by the parent company) is currently fetching around £46 on
the market. It is expected that each unit will eventually realise
at least £75 60 p.c. more than the present selling price.
Last June, the receivers estimated that £21.2 million would
ultimately be available to pay off the £25.4 million in
guaranteed debentures and the £3.7 million worth of unguaran-
teed debentures. The latter were to realise £55 each, the re-
ceivers said.
However, there has been some dispute as to whether the
unguaranteed issue is entitled to this much. An application
has been made to the Supreme Court of Victoria, which will
decide whether the issue ranks equally with or after the guaran-
teed units. If the Court rules in favor of the latter, then the
guaranteed units will realise £B2, not £75, and the unguaran-
teed only £3. The broking firm draws the obvious conclusion
that guaranteed holders are in a much stronger position than
the others, no matter what happens.
Discussion then moves to the amount of the first repayment.
Last February, the receivers were holding £500,000 on behalf
of debenture holders. By June, this had risen to £2 million.
As realisations are proceeding and debts being discharged at an
increasing rate, the firm concludes that about £l5 could be
available for each debenture at present and that £2O or more
may be on hand when the first distribution is made. “At least
the position is not deteriorating because income in receivership
has exceeded the total cost of administration.”
A vital note is struck when it suggests that, pending legal
decisions, the trustee for the debenture holders should regularly
announce the total funds available. This would give a more
exact idea of how operations are proceeding.
It can only be considered as daring when the next point
of discussion turns out to be an estimated timetable of re-
payments. The point of the whole discussion can now be made.
On the basis of a total repayment of £65, the firm says that
those who sell guaranteed debentures now for £46 in order to
re-invest the proceeds would have to earn more than 15 p.c.
every year to improve their position.
The obvious question now is to decide why the table takes
the total repayments to only £65. The firm has completely
disregarded the £lO balance (representing nearly £2 million
in total) in the belief that this would “surely supply a more
than necessary buffer to economic conditions subsequently be-
ing responsible for a downward adjustment on the receivers’
estimates ...” To balance the picture and consider the
possibility of economic conditions actually boosting estimates,
a statement from the receivers is quoted: “Sales of assets of
the land development group had, in general, obtained the full
market value and more than the liquidators’ valuations” with
the comment that this means even more heartening confirma-
tion of the original estimates.


You may close your factory,
but can you afford to close your mind
to Advertising in January?
If your point of view about advertising over
the holiday period is . . . “Don’t advertise
in January . . . nobody is home . . . every-
body is on holidays”, you could be missing
out on the best-selling months of the year.
HERE ARE THE FACTS ON JANUARY
Every year many commercial and industrial
organisations close down for three weeks.
At this time of the year the whole family is
free to go out buying. Their pockets are
loaded with holiday pay. They have nothing
but time on their hands to shop.
Retailers have realised this fact. January
is the month of big Summer Sales, Below
Cost Bargains, Specials, Save, Save, Save.
Retailers spend up big in January to grab
a share of this holiday money spending
market.
WHERE DO NATIONAL ADVERTISERS
FIT IN THE JANUARY SPEND UP?
Many advertisers and their agents be-
lieve people stop drinking coffee, buying
cigarettes, using soap, washing clothes, buy-
ing petrol. It certainly seems this way
because they don’t bother to advertise during
this holiday season. The actual fact is more
coffee is consumed, more cigarettes smoked,
more washing powder used because more
clothes get dirty, and more petrol used be-
cause people on holidays have more time to
go places. But are they using your products?
What would happen if you stopped adver-
tising and your competitors did not for a
month or more in the middle of the year?
The answer undoubtedly is that your share
of market would decrease. The same over
the Christmas and New Year holiday period.
Not all advertisers stop advertising only
the ones that think they can afford to lose
a share of their market. These progressive
advertisers kept on advertising right through
the holiday period last year. They are big
advertisers who know the worth of January
selling.
Amoco
Ansett
William Arnott
Austral Bakeries
Australian Bankers Association
Australian Consolidated Industries
Australian Consolidated Press
Australian Consolidated Press Bulletin
Australian Dairy Produce Board
Australian National Lines
Beckers Bex
Beechams
Best and Gee
Birko
BP Australia
Bonds Industries
B.M.L.
Brockhoffs
Bushells
Campbell Soups
Cedel
Chesebrough-Ponds
Coca Cola
Colgate
Commercial Bank
Commonwealth Government
Cottee’s
Decore Sales
Kevin Dennis
Drug Houses of Australia
Gordon Edgell
Electrix
E. S. & A. Bank
Esso Australia
General Motors-Holden’s
Gillette
Glo-Weave
Goldberg International
Golden Poultry
Greythorn Electrics
T. B. Guest
Robert Harper
Heidelberg Bakeries
H. J. Heinz
Hoover
IGY Veterinary
Ilford Australia
King Gee
R. Kirby
Kodak
Lifesavers
Bob Martin
C. E. Miller
Monier Besser
Moores of Prahran
Philip Morris
Myer Emporium
James McEwan
Nabisco
Nestles Ice Cream
Neta Industries
Newman’s Chocolates
Nicholas
Norway Sardines
Ogden Industries
O. & G. Insurance
Maxwell House
Peters Ice Cream
Tom Piper
Proctor & Gamble
Red Robin
Lyall Roberts
Schweppes
Frank Sedgman
B. Seppelt
Shell Company
Simalex
Sitmar
Stamina Clothing
Sterling Drug
Stewart Alexander
Sunbeam
John Sutherland
David Syme
Tarax Holdings
Tuckfields
Vicks
Vincent Chemical
Walpamur
Webbs Radio
Woolworths
Alberto Culver
Brandella Sox
British Paints
Carnation Milk
Clarks Australia
Columbia Pictures
Darrods
Dural Leeds
Ford Motor Company
Halls Book Store
Houghton & Byrne
Inter. Home Pr.
Johnson & Johnson
S. C. Johnson
Kelloggs
Kiwi Polish
Kraft Foods
Kraft Peanut Butter
Mobil
Montines Longines
Macßobertsons
National Civic Council
Neals Motors
Palace Hotel (Perth)
Pennell
Godfrey Phillips
Phoenix Biscuits
Prahran City Council
Purnell Shoes
Reckitt & Colman
R. J. Reynolds
Scripto Pens
Star Theatrette
State Electricity Commission
Toppa Ice Cream
T.
Tri-Safe Brakes
Unilever
Victorian Milk Board
Warner Lambert
Western District Co-operative
W. D. & H. O. Wills
Wrigleys
WHAT IS GTV9 DOING FOR THE
ADVERTISER IN JANUARY?
During January, GTV9 is offering special
low-price packages to help you sustain your
advertising right through the holiday season
without a large advertising expenditure.
Special package rates apply from open to 6
p.m., 6 p.m. to close and Channel 9 Summer
Theatre (In Melbourne Tonight replace-
ment), with, of course, full-rate, all-year-
round Advertisers enjoying priority of place-
ment.
Don’t let the holiday market slip through
your fingers. Contact your GTV9 Account
Executive for full details on how GTV9
can help you plan your advertising over
January. Phone in Melbourne 42 0201, in
Sydney 27 2881, right now.
9
•TVf.fi


Mayne
Nickless
load their
trucks with
fUM****
FORK LIFT TRUCKS
CONVEYANCER FORK TRUCKS (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
N.S.W.: 132 Epsom Rd., Rosebery. 663 4241. VIC.:
Evans & Graham Sts., Pt. Melbourne. 64 3921-2.
OTHER STATES QLD.: Austral Mining (Q'ld.) Pty.
Ltd., 27 Hampton St., Wooloongabba. 91 5121. W.A.:
British Tractor & Machinery Pty. Ltd., 1275 Hay St.,
West Perth. 21 2215. S.A.: Power Plant Ltd., 100
Currie St., Adelaide. 512111. TAS.: Johnson &
Wells Pty. Ltd., 5 Gladstone St., Hobart. 2 7328.
N.T.: A. B. Motors Ltd., Darwin.
BETTER BUILT-BETTER BACKED
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Waiting on a Dividend Uplift
Holders should keep Wormald Bros shares
t\)UR years ago, Wormald Bros In-
A dustries Limited made its last issue
to shareholders, and as the issue closed
the old shares were selling at 11s. 6d.
At the time of writing, the last sales
took place at 7s. Id., so over a period of
four years the investor has lost 4s. sd.
in capital in return for approximately
Is. Bd. in dividends. Admittedly the
capital loss is only a paper loss unless
the shares have been actually sold, but
even so this could hardly be regarded
as a good investment.
The decision that needs to be made
is whether or not the shares should be
retained by present holders and whether
or not they represent good buying at
present prices. The question for the
holder is easy (in some respects), as
there would seem to be every chance that
the dividend rate will be restored to 10
p.c. as soon as it is at all possible and
this should have the effect of raising the
price. If this rise should take the shares
back to the low point of each of the
calendar years 1960, 1961 and 1962
(the resistance point?), there will be a
worthwhile capital appreciation.
It is to the credit of the company that
it still has the courage to take the share-
holders into its confidence on views
about the future, especially after the un-
favorable comment that was made at
the time of the interim report for 1962-
63. At this time the dividend rate was
reduced, as lower profits were an-
nounced. Criticism was then levelled at
the following statement which had ap-
peared in the 1962 chairman’s review:
“Budget forecasts by management expect
an increase in net profit above the
previous financial year. This estimate is
made in the light of conditions that can
be foreseen at the present time.” In
retrospect this would seem to be a
cautious enough statement, but few com-
panies can be forgiven when a dividend
rate is reduced.
JProm 1958 onwards only one issue has
been made to shareholders. This issue
raised about £535,000, yet during the
five years to 1962 ordinary capital (in-
cluding convertible notes as ordinary
capital for this purpose) nearly doubled
as the result of the issue of shares to
acquire other companies. As a result
of the philosophy of the time, which held
that a “growth” company was a com-
pany whose ordinary capital was expand-
ing rapidly, Wormald’s shares were sell-
ing at twenty-seven times earnings at one
stage in 1960.
It can be expected that some day a
study will be made of the late nineteen
sixties and the companies which during
that period specialised in taking over
other companies by issuing shares in
exchange. Such a study can be expected
to show that a number of such com-
panies ran into difficulties afterwards.
Wormald Bros was amongst them. In
the case of some of these companies, it
is possible to detect the declining profit-
ability during the “take-over period”,
which would suggest that the acquisitions
were not as successful as they were
expected to be. This is not apparent in
the case of Wormald Bros. The profit-
ability ratio did not show any sign of
declining until 1962 and this decline
could have been a result of the general
down-turn in economic activity at the
time. The directors’ report for that year
states: “The general difficulties of the
year are well understood. The company’s
position in all interests was well main-
tained but margins suffered in certain
lines through intensified competition.”
It is likely that this downward pressure
on margins has continued in some
areas, though the divisions associated
with the building industry have un-
doubtedly seen a revival during 1963-64
which has probably continued into 1964-
65. It may well be that in due time
competition in the fire protection and
office equipment divisions will also
diminish and at this stage Wormald Bros
will be in a strong position to reap full
advantage.
At present, however, it is difficult to
suggest that the shares are other than
fairly priced. With a dividend yield of
5.5 p.c. some growth is still expected,
even if it is only the return of the 10
p.c. rate of dividend.
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (£'000)
Year to June 30 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
Current assets 3349 4104 4714 4859 5195
Current liabilities 2000 1943 2487 2265 2724
Working capital 1349 2161 2227 2594 2471
Fixed assets 2281 2715 3470 3578 3595
Investments 199 98 127 178 128
Intangibles 122 155 205 304 306
Total capital 3951 5129 6029 6654 6500
Represented by:
Loan capital 432 681 1206 1664 1401
Minority interests 166 222 261 335 365
Pref. capital 320 320 320 320 320
Convertible notes 400 400 400 — —
Ord. capital 1714 2497 2715 3115 3115
Reserves 919 1009 1127 1220 1299
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES (£'000)
Interest on fixed
loans n/a n/a 60 72 93
Depreciation 143 167 174 182 191
Taxation 258 325 218 181 285
Minority interests 12 14 23 28 35
Preference dividend 16 16 16 16 16
Earnings 279 356 358 166 322
Ordinary dividend 159 251 271 156 249
Surplus 110 105 87 10 73
Earning rate p.c. 16.3 14.2 13.0 5.3 10.3
Dividend rate p.c. 10.0 10.0 10.0 5.0 8.0
Div. yield p.c. (a) 3.3 4.7 4.6 3.5 5.5
High price (b) 17/6 11/10 12/9 11/1 8/9
Low price (b) 9/6 9/6 9/6 6/3 6/3
(a) End of September, month results usually an-
nounced.
(b) Calendar year.


Cr!
IN MELBOURNE
smart people stay at the
RESS ORIENTAL HOTEL
at the Paris end of Collins Street.
Right in the heart of busi-
ness, entertainment, theatres
and shopping centre.
100 rooms—newly decor-
ated, 24 hour room service.
New air-conditioned res-
taurants, the Rib Room, for
delicious aged beef and steaks;
the Harlequin Room for the
young at heart.
Hotel shops include chem-
ist, florist, boutique—and a
step away is the high fashion
world of Collins Street.
Car parking at the hotel.
Ask about our Family
Booking Plan (children free).
For reservations, ring Mel-
bourne 636031; Sydney
298392, your Airline or
Travel Agent.
0 Xi\AiArt CA
Si®
NORFOLK ISLAND
Attractive residence of 40 squares, 4 beds,
3 baths, fully furnished; 3 acres freehold on
sealed road, mains power. Two-car garage,
outbuildings. Poultry equipment, 1200 layers.
W/i, w/o. £14,500 or will adjust inventory
to suit.
NEEDHAM, R.E.A., Norfolk Island.
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
A Capacious Cake Tin
Herbert Adams ' brilliant performance
At about 16s. 3d. and yielding 3.8 p.c.
after brokerage from the 123 p.c.
dividend, the ss. shares of Melbourne-
based Herbert Adams Holdings Ltd
currently offer a lucrative future for the
medium and long-term investor. They
could even prove valuable to that
notorious fellow, the speculator. Listed
history and future plans indicate that
shareholders may see a new issue in the
near future. This would add further
flavor to the genuine shareholder’s piece
of cake and, although market prices
have already taken account of these
issue possibilities to a certain extent,
the speculator could score a consider-
able victory if any capital moves prove
to be more generous than expected.
By and large, the stock is essentially
one to hold. As a leading manufacturer
and exporter of quality cakes and pies
with practical expansion plans on hand,
ithe group looks like becoming even
jigger and better than it is now. Founded
in 1907, it was a family company (and
still is basically) until 1960, when the
chairman and managing director, Mr
C. L. Downey, turned the group public
as part of an expansion plan which will
go on for several years yet. He is the
son-in-law of the late Mr C. D. Adams,
chairman and managing director until his
death in 1959. Mr Adams was always
jreluctant to turn public because of cer-
tain family ties.
Prior to turning public, AZ Bakeries
was bought out. Since listing, Wilkee
Pies has been acquired (thus accounting
for the one and only capital increase up
(to June 30 last) and Herbert Adams Pies
formed. The latest move was the ac-
quisition of Red, White and Blue Ribbon
Enterprises, which operates a chain of
i cake shops in Sydney town and the
metropolitan areas. This was the first
step in a plan to invade the NSW mar-
ket. Within two years, Mr Downey
topes to be tapping at Queensland’s
door, too.
Red, White and Blue jointly owns
l Bowes Food with Woolworths, which has
agreed to sell cakes for Adams in NSW
through their own stores in packets.
.Normally, cake sales are done in bulk
ty the pound. Apart from Woolworths
and RWB, Adams will acquire a chain
i stores to sell under its own banner.
Capacity at the Bowes plant is to be
doubled and a pie machine will be in-
stalled.
The group owns about 50 stores in the
Vlelbourne suburbs, Bendigo, Ballarat
and Geelong. It has a shop in Canberra,
too. In addition, about 450 agencies in
Victoria, the country areas of NSW, SA
and Canberra are supplied daily from the
factory in Richmond (Vic.).
Apart from the parent holding com-
pany, there are six operating subsidiaries.
Herbert Adams Manufacturing and Her-
bert Adams Pty Ltd are the main ones.
They, constantly produce new items to
please the palate. Increased sales are
expected this year through additional
advertising and several new pastrycook
lines. The role of these will be vital to
the expansion plans, and rewards could
be far-reaching, especially if success
through the Woolworths outlets en-
courages that company to retail the pro-
ducts in Queensland and Victoria as
well as NSW.
Herbert Adams Pies could possibly
be another really big money spinner in
the future. Expenses involved in getting
this venture off the ground were written
off the record 1963-64 year, so 1964-65
especially will be boosted by the absence
of these non-recurring items. The sub-
sidiary is now second only as a pie pro-
ducer to the Petersville’s group’s Four’n
Twenty brand. One of the reasons for
this is the fact that the Four’n Twenty
has a strong grip on supply at most sport-
ing venues. Next winter, Adams’ direc-
tors expect that inroads will be made
into this field, so sales could jump con-
siderably, especially if the Sydney unit
meets with success.
Wilkee Pies is now turning out a
better product for the Melbourne mar-
ket because of considerable rebuilding
and alteration at the factory in Malvern.
Bigger sales are justifiably expected this
year. Wilkee has also started to turn
cut doughnuts. Success has been wide-
spread, to such an extent that extra plant
is under consideration right now. Also,
there are plans for extending the range
of doughnuts to be made.
AZ Bakeries, already extremely suc-
cessful, especially with its “health” bread,
is to be further developed. Directors are
expecting higher turnover and profits.
The last subsidiary is Whitehorse Road
Corner. This is a snack bar and cake
shop at the new Forest Hills Drive-In
Shopping Centre, where Adams has per-
manent tenancy. It is a new-type venture
and, if successful, further such set-ups
will be established. The subidiary
showed a small profit in 1963-64.
From all the foregoing, it is quite
obvious that the group is going to need
a considerable amount of cash in the
next few years. This is where share-
holders are expecting to benefit. They
have received nothing of an issue nature
since inception, despite a brilliant per-
formance record. The small dividend
lift for 1963-64 suggests that an issue
is under contemplation and directors do
not wish to establish too high a payout
if it has to be maintained on extra
capital. The present 123 p.c. dividend is
well covered by the 19.2 p.c. earnings.
A definitely conservative management
will ensure that all expansion is not
financed by shareholders. It is now a
well-learned lesson in the finance world
that a balance between shareholders’
capital and loan capital is by far the
most satisfactory method. Too often,
over-capitalisation is disastrous, especially
where fast expansion is planned, as in
Adams’ case, no matter how practical it
may seem in theory. Shareholders would
be extremely lucky to see anything
better than a one-for-four at a premium.
Undoubtedly, the eventual completion
of what appears to be a plan to become
Australia-wide will be necessary before


SHOW PRIZE-WINNERS
FROM YOUR USUAL SUPPLIER
1
inaemans
PRIVATE BIN CLARET BIN 45,
VINTAGE 1962.
A light Claret with a pleasing tannin palate made
from Red Hermitage grapes grown in the Hunter
River, Goulburn and Clare Valleys. Awarded GOLD
MEDAL 1963 Adelaide Show and FIRST PRIZE 1983
Melbourne Show—Table Dry Red Export classes.
COOLALTA RED HERMITAGE,
VINTAGE 1962.
A light, delicate Claret made from Red Hermitage
grapes grown at Lindeman’s Coolalta Vineyard,
Hunter River Valley. Awarded SILVER MEDAL 1964
Brisbane Show—Table Dry Red Export class.
PRIVATE BIN BURGUNDY
BIN 50, VINTAGE 1962.
A soft, round, generous Burgundy with full flavour
made from Red Hermitage grapes grown in the
Hunter River, Goulburn and Clare Valleys. Awarded
SILVER MEDAL 1983 Sydney Show and SILVER MEDAL
1964 Sydney Show—Table Dry Red Export classes.
GRENACHE ROSE,
VINTAGE 1962.
A light, delicate Rose made from Grenache grapes
grown in the Clare Valley.
SUNSHINE VINEYARD
RIESLING, VINTAGE 1963.
A soft, light, delicate Riesling from Lindeman’s
Sunshine Vineyard, Hunter River Valley, N.S.W.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL 1964 Sydney Show and
SILVER MEDAL 1964 Brisbane Show as a 1963 Vin-
tage Hock, and FIRST PRIZE 1964 Perth Show in the
Table Dry White Export class.
VINTAGE
WINES
Lindeman’s wines were awarded the
trophy for the Most Successful
Exhibitor for the third time in the
past four years at the Adelaide
Championship Wine Show, 1964.
At the 1964 Royal Melbourne Show
Lindeman’s u'ere also awarded the
trophy for the Most Success fid
Exhibitor.
At Sydney’s 1964 Royal Easter Show
Lindeman’s icon more prizes than any
other wine exhibitor.
PRIVATE BIN RIESLING BIN 23,
VINTAGE 1963.
A light, delicate, crisp wine made from Riesling
grapes grown in the Hunter River and Clare Valleys.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL 1964 Adelaide Championship
Show as a 1963 Vintage Hock; SILVER MEDAL 1964
Brisbane Show in the Open Hock, any Vintage,
Class; SILVER MEDAL 1964 Sydney Show in the
Table Dry White Export class.
COOLALTA WHITE BURGUNDY,
VINTAGE 1964.
A full, round, soft White Burgundy made from White
Hermitage and Semilion grapes grown at Clare and
the Hunter River Valley.
PRIVATE BIN CHABLIS BIN 64,
VINTAGE 1964.
A crisp, dry, flinty wine with an appealing bouquet
and flavour, made from White Hermitage and Semil-
lon grapes grown in the Hunter River and Clare
Valleys.
PRIVATE BIN WHITE BUR-
GUNDY BIN 77, VINTAGE 1964.
A crisp, generous, medium bodied wine, made from
White Hermitage and Semilion grapes grown in the
Hunter River and Clare Valleys. Awarded GOLD
MEDAL 1964 Brisbane Show in the Table Dry White
Export class.
PRIVATE BIN PORPHYRY
BIN 36, VINTAGE 1960.
A rich, luscious and sweet Sauterne made from
Semilion grapes grown at Lindeman’s Hunter River
Vineyards, N.S.W. Awarded GOLD MEDAL 1964 Bris-
bane Show and SILVER MEDAL 1964 Adelaide Cham-
pionship Show respectively in Table Sweet White
Export class.
Order these Lindeman’s Vintage Wines from
Hotels, Clubs, Restaurants and other Licensed Retailers
throughout Australia, New Guinea and Papua
shareholders really start to benefit from
issues. In the meantime, steady growth
will be their lot. At it is, reserves are
growing strongly each year. Although
they are far behind paid capital still, the
stock is a first-class one for holding
against the day when it becomes a leader.
It undoubtedly will.
The accompanying table reflects, in
figures, excellent development since
1960. Working capital is no worry. It
is a bit worse this year, as overdraft
jumped because the bank financed cer-
tain capital expenditure. Being literally
a cash business, liquid reserves are
unnecessary. However, directors say
they intend to keep a close watch on the
situation.
Fixed assets have grown healthily.
Intangibles are high, mainly because of
the goodwill and the company has
plenty of it with customers. Loan capital
is nothing to worry over. Profits have
risen every year except for 1961. Divi-
dend record is excellent. The yield and
share price trend reflect, more than any-
thing else, the company’s growing status
with investors.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1960(a) 1961 1962 1963 1964
Current assets 104 91 114 130 147
Less current
liabilities 234 231 280 323 354
Working capital -130 -140 -166 -193 -207
Fixed assets 636 673 782 846 902
Investments 8 9 11 11 12
Intangibles 410 408 420 420 420
924 950 1047 1084 H27
Ordinary capital 739 739 762 762 762
Reserves 133 166 233 270 313
Loan capital 40 33 40 35 30
O'side s'holders 12 12 12 - 17 17
924 950 1047 1084 Tl27
Depreciation 21 25 23 32 35
Tax 80 77 81 86 101
Net profit 112 110 117 128 146
Dividend — 74 74 91 95
Surplus — 36 43 37 51
Earning rate 15.1 14.9 15.8 16.8 19.2
Dividend rate — 10 10 12 124
Dividend yield (b) — 4.9 4.7 4.1 4.0
High price (c) 8/6 11/3 13/3 15/- 15/9
Low price (c) 7/- 7/6 9/6 13/3 13/5
(a) Adjusted from September, 1960, prospectus.
(b) End August, month results announced.
(c) Calendar year.
FRANK G. O’BRIEN LTD
Control Needed
G. O’Brien Ltd slipped badly in
the 1962-63 financial year and
despite a small profit did not pay a divi-
dend on ordinary shares —the first time
this had occurred in 18 years. However,
results in the 1963-64 year showed a
marked improvement and dividend pay-
ments were restored.
The company began operations in 1924
as a glass merchant and'shop fitter, con-
verting to a public company in 1946.
Stock exchange listing followed a place-
ment of 30,000 ss. shares at 10s. Paid-
up capital at this stage was £60,000 in
ordinary shares.
In the years immediately following list-
ing, capital growth was rapid, with cash
issues to shareholders in 1948, 1949,
1950 and 1951. In 1951, the company
also made a bonus issue. The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance took up £50,000
in 5 p.c. 20s. redeemable preference
shares in 1950. Since 1951, the only
issue to shareholders has been a 7 p.c.
issue of 10s. unsecured notes, which con-
verted into two ordinary shares in May,
1961.
In 1959 and again in 1961, shares were
issued to acquire businesses and assets,
including 60,000 shares issued to Consoli-
dated Metal Products Ltd for the acquisi-
tion of freehold property at Waterloo.
Present paid-up capital is £430,000 in
ss. ordinary shares and £17,500 in re-
deemable prefs. The prefs are redeem-
able in £2OO annual instalments.
Apart from the slip in 1963. the com-
pany has had a consistent dividend re-
cord. In each year to 1951 the distri-
bution was 15 p.c. and then for the next
ten years was held at 124 p.c. despite the
growth of capital. Following a small set-


(INVEST IN
'l%
0+
i* 1 "®
i inn#
lllltti
minm
im'mi
SB
Lii
Debenture Stock
6i«yb
3 years
7°/o
4 years
o
6 years
8%
p.a.
8 years and over
Unsecured Deposit Notes
4i<7°
3 months
siHUOUi 9
%s
sz°fo
12 months
G\°/o
2 years
%
"7
P-a
3 years
r HOW TO INVEST:
Obtain a Prospectus from
• Any Stockbroker.
• Any branch of the National Bank of
Australasia Limited.
Any store or office of Waltons Limited.
Waltons Credit Corporation Limited, Box
3875, G.P.0., Sydney.
Applications must be lodged on the appropriate form issued with the Prospectus#
Paid-up Capita! £3,500,000
VaEvi
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated
in the A.C.T.
back in profit in 1962, the rate was re-
duced to 10 p.c. although, because of the
conversion of the notes to ordinary
shares, this reduced distribution rate re-
quired a greater monetary payout than
the previous year’s 12i p.c.
The 1961 profit of £59,897 was a re-
cord. The following year, because of a
slow-up in the building industry, earn-
ings fell to £47,962, equal to 11.1 p.c.
on the higher capital. The first half of
the following year was very difficult, par-
ticularly in the glass and shop fittings
divisions, and, despite an improvement in
the second half of the year, profit
slumped to £2551, equal to only 0.4 p.c.
on ordinary capital after meeting the
preference dividend charge.
Sales for the year were only 9 p.c.
below the record set in the 1961 year.
The lower profit was due principally to
severe competition and lower profit mar-
gins experienced during the year. The
latest year was far from easy, yet trading
conditions showed some improvement,
with sales up about 17i p.c. As a re-
sult, profit recovered to £36,085, equal
to 8.1 p.c. on capital, and a final dividend
of 3 p.c. was paid.
During the latest period, a short-term
loan of £25,049 was repaid and bank
overdraft was reduced from £285,447 to
£195,778. Mortgage borrowing was in-
creased from £109,645 to £200,497, of
which only £9747 is due for repayment
in the current year.
The accounts show the company with
a holding of £30,911 in Chevron Sydney
debentures, against which directors have
provided for a loss of £5911. In view of
the rejection of the proposed redevelop-
ment of the site and the withdrawal of
the offer by the syndicate directors may
have to make additional provisions in
the current year.
The reserve position is quite strong,
with capital reserves, totalling £287,266,
considerably more than half paid-up ordi-
nary capital. Subject to intangible items,
principally goodwill totalling £28,835, net
assets backing of each 5s. share is
10s. 4d.
Sales for the first four months of the
current year have shown an improve-
ment over those of the corresponding
period of the previous year. This has
increased the demands on working capi-
tal, resulting in the need for constant
attention being given to the control of
stock and book debts.
The shares are currently selling at
4s. lid., the best level for some time. On
present indications they could show an
improvement during the coming months.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
Current assets 857 801 787 813 876
Less current liabilities 585 568 482 565 570
Working capi'al 272 233 305 248 306
Fixed assets 568 623 776 821 800
Intangibles 7 7 28 28 29
847 863 1109 1097 1135
Represented by
Ord. capital 320 420 430 430 430
Pref. capital 28 25 23 20 18
Reserves 336 350 474 469 487
Loan funds 163 168 182 178 200
847 863 1109 1097 1135
Depreciation 13 15 18 24 19
Taxation 33 25 22 3 1
Net profit 60 60 48 3 36
Profit for ords 58 59 47 2 35
Dividend 39 41 42 — 13
Surplus 19 18 5 2 22
Dividend p.c. 10 — 3
Earnings p.c. 18.7 17.8 11.1 0.4 8.1
Dividend yield (a) 4.4 5.9 6.2 — 3.4
High price (b) 15/6 11/- 12/- 7/9 5/9
Low price (b) 11/6 9/- 7/6 4/- 4/-
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.


SAFETY
; \ FOR SAVINGS ANO /“
■ft' INVtStWENT
&
tyrm
STG/12
SECURITY: Strong liquidity
reserves. The Society's total
assets exceed £5 million.
WITHDRAWALS: Your money
is available ANY TIME, if
required. No brokerage or
other deductions.
DIVIDENDS: Paid Twice
Yearly.
Write for brochure without obligation!
ST. GEORGE &CRONULLA
PERMANENT CO-OPERATIVE
BUILDING SOCIETY LIMITED
Co-operation House, 36 Ormonde Pde., Hurstville.
Phone 57 0201.
CITY: Berger House, 82 Elizabeth Street. 28 2801
MIRANDA: 551 The Kingsway. Phone 52 6466
AGENCIES:
Chatswood: Ist Floor, 389 Victoria Ave. 41 4295
Parramatta: 21a Smith St. Phone 635 7401
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Other Forms of Investment
But there are still traders’ dreams
Qtock Exchange investment is not the
only form of investment, as a
“Memogram” from the NSW Co-opera-
tive Permanent Building and Investment
Society Ltd so eagerly tells us.
It gives an example of the purchase
of a ss. share yielding 7 p.c. If this share
was sold at the same price of ss. one
year later, the 8i p.c. costs involved in
the total transaction would result in a
loss of li p.c. “Memogram” adds this
profound statement: “Of course the
shares could rise in value but they could
also fall, a not uncommon experience
these days.” After presenting this rather
clumsy argument, it concludes by
“Is there any investment to match ours?”
A fair example of what should prove
to be an “uncommon experience” is
Anderson Meat rights. This company
has been a trader’s dream. It has already
provided one of the best profits for the
Diary this year and I’m hoping for a
repeat performance.
Some- weeks ago the shares rose
sharply to 30s. The reaction which
followed just prior to the l-for-10 par
issue put the shares back to 275. As the
chartists tell me, it was the critical
support level. The shares passed this test
with flying colors. Going ex rights made
no difference to the share price. In fact,
the shares have now risen to 28s. Work-
ing on the basis of leverage, it was the
rights at Bs. that I selected.
Appealing to the fundamentalist is the
extraordinary recovery in pre-tax profits
in the last few years. From £2OOO in
1961 these rose to £48,000 in 1962,
tripled to £139,000 in 1963, and almost
doubled again to £249,000 in 1964. This
reflects the company’s success not only
in the local meat market but also in the
rapidly expanding export market.
Whereas Anderson Meat is obviously
doing well, the same assurance cannot
be given about Anthony Hordern.
“While I Live I’ll Grow” has an ironic
ring about it now that the Brickfield Hill
store has been thrown on to the leasing
market. It must be a blow to the ego
not to be senior retailer in Sydney any
longer, after all these years. However,
from the profit angle, it is probably the
best possible development. Directors
recently stated that “virtually the entire
loss (£96,000 for the 1963-64 year) can
be attributed to trading at Brickfield
Hill”.
One of the basic problems of the com-
pany has been its annual commitment of
about £300,000 for interest on borrow-
ings and bank overdraft. Early this
year this problem was partly met by the
sale of the Haymarket Finance Company
Ltd. The leasing of a considerable part
of the Haymarket store could now make
the vital difference.
So far the market does not share my
hopes, as the 20s. shares have fallen from
a high this year of 16s. to Bs. 3d. The
10s. convertible notes have suffered a
similar fall, the last sale being 4s. 3d.
With an asset backing of 50s. per share,
these present market prices seem ab-
normally low. As there is 9d. interest
on the notes in the next year, they
seemed the better buy.
The only sale this week was the Cope
Allman shares at 245., resulting in a £l3
profit.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
200 Cope Allman, 24/- £235
BOUGHT
1000 Anthony Hordern notes, 4/3 £224
1000 Anderson Meat rights, 8/- .. £412
The credit balance is still a respect-
able £340. Some of the stocks in the
portfolio have been a little slow, so I’ll
have to consult my new trading partner,
Jennifer, on what action to take!
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1000 Hanimex 23/5/62 10/4 14/6
1000 Mai leys 12/11/63 31/3 37/-
1000 Conquip 2/4/64 9/6 10/-
5 G. J. Coles 14/5/64 18/10 16/6
1000 Tre I oar 2/7/64 14/- 18/9
1000 Aberfoyle V 15/7/64 16/9 18/-
1000 E. White 26/8/64 24/6 22/-
1000 Viscount Holdings 9/9/64 8/ 8/-
200 W. Adams 17/9/64 32/- 32/6
1000 Pioneer Concrete 18/9/64 17/4 16/9
1000 Kolotex 26/9/64 14/9 15/6
1000 Sydney Mutual Ins. 30/9/64 32/4 32/-
2000 Westralian 15/10/64 2/10 3/-
1000 Ansett notes 15/10/64 6/3 6/6
500 Hanimex 29/10/64 14/3 14/6
500 ISAS (NSW) 29/10/64 25/- 25/-
200 Pioneer Sugar 4/11/64 61/- 63'/-
400 King Is. Scheelite 9/11/64 12/6 13/11
2000 Ira Berk 11/11/64 2/11 2/10
1000 A. Hordern notes 16/11/64 4/3 4/3
1000 Anderson Meat rts 18/11/64 8/- 8/-


SUCCESSFUL
CONVENTIONS
TAKE PLACE AT
The hotel conveniently situated close
to the commercial heart of the Aus-
tralian capital.
The hotel with the experience, the staff
and special facilities conventions re-
quire.
The hotel with truly comfortable ac-
commodation.
Your convention runs really smoothly at The
HoteL Canberra. Your particular requirements
are closely attended to by experienced staff
and you use special rooms giving you the
comfort and privacy you require. Projection
facilities are available and of course you
receive the same renowned Hotel Canberra
service as other guests. Accommodation is
tasteful and comfortable. Every room has
bath or shower and toilet facilities. Round-
the-clock room service, naturally. Single
rooms from £3/17/6 a day.
THE
HOTEL CANBERRA
Commonwealth Avenue, A.C.T.
Telephone: 7-2251.
The hotel that caters specially for conventions.
HC-24
if
C
a:
M
B
pp
R
R
A
rn THE MAN ON THE LAND
Getting Woolmark Airborne
The instrument of consumer protection
TlThen an aeroplane speeds down the
" runway for take-off, there comes a
point where it can no longer pull up
but must go on regardless. Akin to this
is the position today of the Australian
wool industry in the biggest promotional
undertaking it has ever attempted the
launching, in partnership with New
Zealand and South Africa, of the Wool-
mark.
While the Woolmark is not yet quite
airborne, it is well beyond the point
where it can think of turning back.
The Woolmark a sort of universal
trademark for wool, with the difference
that it guarantees quality and is backed by
law is being launched this month in
six Northern-Hemisphere countries: the
United States, Japan, the United King-
dom, West Germany, Holland and Bel-
gium. These countries buy wool worth
some £450 million a year. They are the
spearhead of an operation that will even-
tually, over perhaps three or four years,
extend to most of the 90 or so countries
in which registration of the mark has
been sought.
The Woolmark has not only a point-of-
no-return but a stalling speed. It is on
keeping above that speed that the efforts
of those in control are now concentrated.
Should the symbol fail to catch on at
the start, and textile manufacturers,
makers-up and retailers find they can live
without it, it could flop through lack of
support. If, on the other hand, the Wool-
mark clicks, it could become one of the
most coveted trading symbols in the
world.
The Woolmark is the core of the pro-
motional programme over which the
Australian wool industry lately wrangled
and split, and in whose defence Sir Wil-
liam Gunn, chairman of the Australian
Wool Board and of the International
Wool Secretariat (which is launching the
mark), was floured and egged.
The timing of the Woolmark’s launch-
ing may not be all that some of its
sponsors could have wished. They would
have liked more time in which to pre-
pare, but their intentions were swept for-
ward by the political tides of the time.
The cries of urgency with which ad-
vocates of an immediate hotting-up of
wool promotion wrung compromises
from their opponents had to be backed
with impressive promises. When the in-
dustry and the Federal Government
agreed to put up the additional millions
needed for promotion, nothing less than
the Woolmark project would suffice to
honor them.
There is not much doubt, however,
that the haste into which the operation
has been forced is for the best. Mr W.
J. Vines, managing director of the IWS,
is convinced that the wool industry can-
not afford a minute’s delay in getting
the Woolmark launched. Some students
of the position think it should have
been done five years ago.
At the centre of the Woolmark’s
purpose is the need to rescue wool from
the obscurity into which the growth of
man-made fibres has tended to push it.
Suits, jumpers and socks were once auto-
matically made of wool. Today they
come in an increasing array of materials,
and among them the pure wool article is
often well nigh smothered.
It is the Woolmark’s function to show
the consumer at a glance that an article
consists of pure virgin wool. The ad-
vantages of pure virgin wool are simul-
taneously linked with this identification
through the multi-million-pound world-
wide advertising campaign that is back-
ing it.
As the custodians of Woolmark see
it, the discriminating shopper of the
future, having had it dinned in that pure
new wool goods are as preferable to
synthetics as are coffee, leather and
flowers to their imitators, will enter a shop
and straightaway peer around for the
magic sign which, as shrely as the label


S'®
-9
. ■
n’Q'oaOQ'o
oo'o
o OOOqQV,
CHEVRON HILTON
GOLDEN GRILL
COMPLIMENTS
YOUR
GOOD TASTE
In an s atmosphere of gracious living, the food,
S
cellar and service are supreme . . .
I=l
Whether in a hurry or with time to tarry, the
service keeps pace with your wishes.
A snack, a sumptuous repast, a coffee, an
aperitif, all are available from morn till midnight.
Each week, in addition to the fabulous daily ‘a
la carte', an excitingly different international menu
is presented for your enjoyment . . .
In the evening, Alexander Grant's ensemble
provides pleasant background music and invites
your personal request . . .
The inexpensive luxury of the GOLDEN GRILL
is yours all day, every day . . ,
CHEVRON HILTON, MACLEAY STREET, POTT'S POINT. PHONE 35.0433
on a Scotch whisky bottle, distinguishes
that which he may look at from that
which he may not. In the background of
the vision are thousands of frustrated
traders who have not yet qualified for
the Woolmark licence scrambling over
each other to get it. Indeed, the vision is
already becoming reality in some coun-
tries, especially Germany, where the
IWS's office is receiving applications
taster than they can be handled.
The little symbol that is beginning to
speckle the chosen garments of six
countries was designed by an Italian,
Francesco Saroglia, art director of a
Milan advertising agency, in an inter-
national contest with 86 entries. Saroglia
specialises in macro-photography of
shapes made weird by being seen through
glass. The Woolmark symbol, which re-
minds people of many things from a
ball of wool to a mint humbug, is such
a product.
If the resemblances that have been
attached to it may suggest that visually
the Woolmark symbol is not exactly ori-
ginal, there is no such doubt about the
concept it represents. The Woolmark is
new not only to the wool industry but to
the world. It is not just an ordinary
trademark implying quality but a certi-
fication mark guaranteeing it. It is the
first time world-wide registration has ever
been sought for a certification mark for
a common material on sale in various
forms to the public. Of more than
14,000 marks for which registration was
sought last year in the United Kingdom,
fewer than 50 were certification marks.
The rare creature called Woolmark is
thus an instrument of consumer-protec-
tion, its guarantees enjoying the full
backing of the law in whichever country
it is used. With this status goes, of
course, the responsibility of ensuring
that the mark is properly used; and
this means testing. The provision of
suitable tests has been one of the stickiest
problems in getting the Woolmark ready
for launching. Given a microscope and
a steady hand, it is not hard for a scien-
tist or even a layman to tell natural from
man-made fibres. It is a different matter
when it comes to distinguishing pure
virgin wool from wool that has been used
before. And it is almost as hard to per-
suade the textile industry that the stipu-
lation which calls for the test is neces-
sary. After all, the industry has been
around for a long time. A substantial
part bf it earns a living from skilful
breaking down and building up into netv
garments of second-hand or “shoddy”
wools.
But a lot of hard work has been done,
particularly in America, and a process
called the semi-rupture test, which detects
in individual fibres the bruising and
tearing that betray re-use, has been re-
fined enough to get the Woolmark over
its initial hurdle of being launched in
the first six countries for pure virgin wool
in worsted fabrics. Later will come the
more exacting challenge of coming up
with tests to enforce a wider range of
standards, including performance charac-
teristics like tensile strength and color
fastness, for woollens as well as worsteds,
in the remainder of the countries for
which the Woolmark is destined.
Such is the length of the pipeline from
raw wool to finished product, with the
long-range planning demanded by com-
merce and fashion, that the Woolmark
organisers are already irrevocably com-
mitted to distant phases of the operation.
A jungle of difficulties confronted the
IMS in putting the idea across to in-
dustry. Being a consumer mark, it is on
the retail level that the symbol is being
focused. All stages along the pipeline
will be involved, though, in whatever
pull the mark generates at the consumer
end. It is among the makers-up of gar-
ments that most of the licences to use
the symbol will be found.
Further back, among the weavers and
spinners, Woolmark has given rise to
bogies that have sometimes reached
almost panic proportions. In the early
days of the idea’s introduction, many
saw the symbol as the badge of a tight
little club, exclusion from which would
mean commercial ostracism for firms
that had over generations become as in-
terwoven in the pattern of industry as
the strands in their own cloth. How
dare a brash organisation of woolgrowers
disturb these ivy-clad relationships?
Gradually, however, feelings have been
soothed. Although it is inevitable that
at some points the interests of growers
and manufacturers diverge, most now
understand that the growers are doing
only what they must to safeguard their
future, and that the impact, however
black and white it may be at the shop
counter, will at their level be blurred
and gradual, with nudges rather than
knocks.
The editor of “Wool Record”, the
Bradford weekly trade journal that
serves as a textile bible for half the
world, said in a recent editorial: “Wool-
mark has a big but not insuperable task
before it. As Mr W. J. Vines, mana-
ging director of the IWS, has repeatedly
said, wool must establish itself not as a
struggling alternative to rivals but as a
totally different and better option. But
to do this it must be right, and recog-
nisable. There are good grounds for
hoping that it will be both, if only be-
cause Woolmark looks as though it will
do what statutory fibre and quality
labelling should have done long ago.”


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: ARCHIBALD COLIN RUSSELL JONES,
166 Gipps Street, Dubbo, N.S.W. TAKE
NOTICE that CECILE CLARE JONES has filed
a Petition No. 2566 of 1964 for divorce on
the ground of desertion and separation. If
you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on. or
before the twenty-first day of December, 1964,
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from W. H. LUCHETTI, Solicitor, of
137 Pacific Highway, North Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: JOriN FRANCIS GAMGEE, formerly of
211 A Housing Settlement, Riverwood. TAKE
NOTICE that PHYLLIS MAY GAMGEE has
filed a Petition No. 2076 of 1964 for divorce
on the grounds of desertion, cruelty and
failure to pay maintenance. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Syaney, on or before tne Ist January, 1965,
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
Charge from GILBERT CHARLTON MUR-
DOCH, Solicitor, of 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: WILLIAM JOSEPH GOODALL, formerly
of Mackay, Queensland. TAKE NOTICE that
BETH AUDREY GOODALL (formerly Kresten-
sen) has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4061
of 1963 on the ground of desertion. If you
wish ta defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the expiry of 30 days from the date of this
publication, and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. S. T. HODGE
& CO., Solicitors, of 4 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: BERYL SHIRLEY ROBERTS. TAKE
NOTICE that LESLIE ROBERTS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3728 of 1964 on the
ground of desertion notwithstanding the facts
and circumstances set out in the Discretion
Statement filed. If you wish to defend you
may file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 22nd Decem-
ber, 1964, and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from JOHNSON & O'NEILn,
Solicitors, of 69 Hunter Street, Newcastle, or
from their Agents, SHAW, MCDONALD & CO.,
Solicitors, 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: HINDRIK ROZEMA. TAKE NOTICE that
GREITJE HENDRIKA ROZEMA has filed a
Petition No. 321 of 1964 for divorce on the
ground of separation notwithstanding the
facts and circumstances set out in the Dis-
cretion Statement filed. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 18th
day of December, 1964, and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from BRUCE R.
MILES, Solicitor, 250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF QUEENSLAND
TO: AILEEN PATRICIA WHALLEY, whose
present whereabouts are unknown. TAKE
NOTICE that THOMAS PETER WHALLEY, of
761 Wynnum Road, Morningside, Brisbane, in
the State of Queensland, has commenced an
action against you for the dissolution of
marriage by Mat. Pet. No. 405 of 1964 on the
ground of desertion. If you wish to defend
this action you must file an Answer in the
Registry of the Supreme Court at Brisbane
aforesaid within twenty-eight days from the
date of publication hereof. You may obtain
without charge a copy of the Petition and
the Notice of Petition from STEPHENS &
TOZER, Solicitors, Manchester Unity Build-
ing, 231-235 George Street, Brisbane. E.
PLARACY, Second Deputy Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: HUNTER RAYMOND SPERRY BRAZIER,
late of 200 Coronation Parade, Enfield. TAKE
NOTICE that GRACE ANNIE BRAZIER has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3035 of 1964
on the grounds of desertion and habitually
leaving the petitioner without reasonable
means of support. If you wish to defend you
may file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney,
within 30 days from this publication, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. AITKEN & PLUCK, Solicitors,
234 George Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: DESMOND ERIC HORDER. TAKE
NOTICE that BERYL JOAN HORDER
(formerly Meaker) has filed a Petition No. 2617
of 1963 for divorce on the grounds of desertion
and separation notwithstanding the facts and
circumstances set out in the Discretion State-
ment filed. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the eighteenth
day of December, 1964, and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from MESSRS.
ROY C. SERIO, DWYER & CO., Solicitors, of
234-242 George Street, Sydney C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
' MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: FAY ROBINSON. TAKE NOTICE that
ROBERT ROBINSON has filed a Petition No.
3547 of 1962 for divorce on the ground of
desertion. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry of the
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the Seventh day
of January, 1965, and obtain a copy of the
Petition, without charge, from JAMES G.
SOULOS AND COMPANY. Solicitors, 65 Crown
Street, Wollongong, or MESSRS. G. S. Mac-
KELLAR, SON & W. A. T. CRAIN, Solicitors,
17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
Missing Persons
Will DORA SYBIL NEWMAN-PARRY (nee
NEWMAN), formerly of Liverpool, England,
and whose last known address was, during
1953, “Edrus”, Allworth Street, Northgate,
Brisbane, and who then moved to Melbourne,
or her Descendants, please communicate With
RAYNER & WADE, Solicitors, 34 Castle Street,
Liverpool 2, England, when she or they may
hear something to their advantage.
ENGINES
WHILE-U-DRIVE
OVERHAULED
• SAVES REBORE
• STOPS PISTON SLAP! RATTLES!
• STOPS OIL, PETROL WASTE
• NO TIE-UPS, DISMANTLING
Add expanding liquid Nu-Metal (Pat.) thru
plug holes for WORN upper cyls or oil or
petrol for WORN main bearings, gears, diffs.
GUAR, harmless. Good up to 25,000 miles.
Increase compression 15 lb. per cyl. Increases
car value. No charge. 1,2, 4,6, 8 cyls.
15/6, 30/-, 60/-, 70/-, 80/-.
FULLY GUAR. AND MONEY SAVERS
DO-IT-AT-HOME
1. WELDER OR ELECTRO PLATER. Works
off car battery. £B/8/- each.
2. STOPS loose fitting dentures and daily
powders, bulky substances. Apply one
application only of FITRITE Miracle Jelly
Plastics. Sets moulds while-u-wear. Lasts
up to years. 42/- outfit.
3. STOPS slipping, dropping eye-glasses.
HOLD-TITE slips on in seconds. Outfit
includes eye-glass cleaner. Lasts up to
years. 25/- outfit.
4. NU-BRUSH Interchangeable outside and
inside car brush cleaner, or use as body
bath cleanser, massager. Fast loosens fat
up to years. Creates lovely figure. 40/-
outfit.
5. NU-INSTANT Height increaser. Ad 4 In-
side/outside of heel or sole. Free booklet.
19/6 outfit.
6. BUMPER BAR DENT ELIMINATOR. Re-
touches-up brush outfit with brush and
rubbing-down paper. 40/- outfit.
7. NU-CHARGE. Recharges all batteries and
removes all sulphation from the batteries
and terminals. Just add to battery holes.
21/- outfit.
SPECIAL OFFER FOR 7 DAYS ONLY. Also
available laboratory science tested do-it-at-
home kits; from £lO/10/- with full course of
lessons and instructions. Usual price
£l9/19/-. (a) Radio and TV kits, (b) Magic
plastics, (c) Miracle silkscreen kits, (d) Rub-
ber moulds kit—remould any object, (e)
screen kits —reprint from any printed objects,
(f) Welding course—l 2 lessons with free
welder. NEW DISCOVERIES! We show how
you can get a patent for a small fee! Save
Patent Attorney £.s.d.
Sold only by RE-NU CO. (Estab. 1932), Div.
of Scientific Colleges & Plastic Ind. Co. Pty.
Ltd., estab. 1946. 58 Swan St., opp. Richmond
Stn. Vic. 42 1755. Open Sat.
I enclose £ for
indicate choice or send free particulars on
NAME
AbDRESS
BULL.
SCOTCH COLLEGE
Melbourne
ASSISTANT MASTER
additional to the present staff,
required to teach Mathematics up to
Matriculation in 1965. Salary range
up to £2,500 per annum at present
rates; entry to the scale being deter-
mined by age, qualifications and
experience. Good superannuation
scheme. Residence with house duty
available for a single man.
Apply in writing, with copies of
testimonials, to:
The Principal, Scotch College,
Hawthorn, E. 2.
all the year round
Milking Contests
TTere’s an idea for go-ahead show
societies in Australia wishing to
combine entertainment with rural ac-
tivities.
Milking contests are very popular in
other parts of the world but, as far as
this writer knows, are not held in Aus-
tralia. With the 100 p.c. changeover to
milking machines on the dairy farms,
the hand-milking of cows is confined
mainly to stripping out after the
machines have done their job. Yet there
must be plenty of dairy farmers who are
good hands at milking and who could
put on a pretty good display.
A world championship has just been
held in San Francisco, with representa-
tives from many countries. A Cali-
fornian dairyfarmer named Bernard
Souza won the contest by extracting 14
pounds five ounces of milk from a brown
Swiss cow (a popular breed in the US
but unknown here). His opponent in
the final was a Japanese, Suicki Suzuki,
who managed only 71b. Bozs.


©
news
personalities
politics
books
finance
arts
world events
SUBSCRIPTIONS
26 weeks £2/12/-
Australian, £2/2/-
Sterling and N.Z.;
52 weeks £4/4/-
Australian, £3/7/-
Sterling and N.Z
Send dollar equiva-
lents to New York
and Malaysian
iffices
The Bulletin
Australia's
leading journal
of fact
and
opinion
NAME
ADDRESS
Please tick yj whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? |~~j or
A renewal subscription? J~j
Post this coupon to THE BULLETIN, Box 4088, G.P.0., Syd-
ney; OR Box 965, G.P.0., Wellington, New Zealand; OR
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd., 107 Fleet Street, London;
OR Australian Consolidated Press Ltd., 229 West 43rd Street,
New York, N.Y.; OR Marican & Son, P.O. Box 985, Kuala
Lumpur, Malaysia.
New Zealand readers may receive the Air Freighted edition
at £2/12/- New Zealand for 26 issues, £4/4/- New Zealand
for 52 issues.
well informed people
read The Bulletin
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 824
ACROSS
I—Policeman backing Kay, an opponent of 6-across
and the editor, all being disfigured by disease. (4-6)
6—Osseous Napoleon. (4)
10— Napoleon may bear this high-flying hazard. (5)
11— You and I would turn an inhospitable key in
marriage. (7)
12— Napoleon’s way of mentioning his offspring. (3)
13— Bounder kicks bucket personalities of course. (7)
14 — A self-effacing grey. (4)
16—Sea-mammal meaning nothing to a pre-Reformation
Christian. (3)
17— Spirit x seen about a profit. (4)
18- —Murphy to drive a preposition
into a pocket. (6)
20—Bash whatchamacallit. (6)
22—Sin and guilt together con-
fused this exponent of
tongues. (8)
25 Before backing a Sicilian
trouble-maker. (4)
26 Plot clan is confused enough
to get one’s drift. (5, 2)
27 How 1-down regarded Ger-
trude when silent. (3)
29 Speaking rhetorically when in
love with a sailor. (7)
30— Smooth working ensured by
this operator from the Loire.
(5)
31— Only a cannibalistic Miss
Muffet could be expected to
be eating this. (4)
32 Mark left in a muddy road
with hers being a Gilbertian
dame. (10)
DOWN
1— Hamlet. (6, 2,7)
2 Hamlet? (5, 5)
3 Hamlet. (7)
4 Hamlet. (8)
5 Excite the tenderness of the
final listener. (6)
7 Event in Melbourne Cup
week which may be expected
to produce a food fancied by
3-down. (4)
8— Not long in the tooth in favor
of falsies, according to 1-
down’s successor. (5, 10)
9—Cry whom should I disap-
prove of? (6)
15—It makes a brawl of 1-down
spread. (6, 4)
19—Resident of 4-down gets some
beer after 6.50. (8)
21—Snare parent is injured. (6)
23 Forget having this to be for
an invitation to scram. (3, 4)
24 Parent metal having a kind of
encrustation on old bronzes.
(6)
28—Tie up Othello. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 823


Sydney , city of charm , grandeur and.
■y x
v V V v v
s \ x X * V
V V v V v
Vi
\
V 'V V '
X X \\"V>
x x x ' l;x v k'v*
\ \ X \ V > \ *
- Ms \ . \ * * %
V M \ ' x ' v XU
X
N N V- - .
x N v %H\V
i# ” -a
X
% .
X (JKt*
<: ' 'I
V V *
% ■ *.
M'£M
Si*.'*'
SMH
B®£& v i
ISlBfcfcX
r*Hi
:
ilr
81
Ik
>*»
f
.
«
V,
i m
Foyer and Main Staircase.
' ’’ i - '.».f' - -
-1 j®
MMpWWi f-^Vfv
A view from one of the Suites.
Kings Cross by night.
s
i,v
mmtem
9RIIIP w%
■ft m
i
L i*'p£J&i "'s£ ZtfrTT*
*f f :f "'*? ?#e. i
' V
One of Sydney’s fine beaches.
TJie Macleay St. Entrance to Chevron Hilton.
s*f
the wonderful world of Chevron Hilton
SPECIAL FAMILY RATES
ON APPLICATION
Reservations can be made through
any travel agent or direct with
The magic of Sydney begins the moment you step
inside Chevron Hilton. You’ll be enthralled by the
breathtaking views of beautiful Sydney harbour, de-
lighted with the superb restaurants, intimate bars and
luxuriously relaxing atmosphere. Only minutes from
the shopping and business centres, and within easy
reach of all sporting and sightseeing facilities. Chev-
ron Hilton is ideally located for your stay in Sydney.
In the evenings you can enjoy the world’s top artists
in the hotel’s famous Silver Spade Restaurant or revel
in discovering the fascinating night life of Kings Cross.
When you book Chevron Hilton, arrange
for a sparkling new Avis car to be await-
ing your arrival. Avis can help squeeze
the most into your visit to Sydney.
CHEVRON HILTON
A
You'll enjoy your stay
more with an AVIS car
Make the most of your stay at
Chevron Hilton, drive a sparkling
new AVIS car. You’ll see more, do
more, have more fun. Book your
AVIS car when you reserve your
travel tickets.
AVIS
RENTA CAR
MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY, N.S.W. CABLES: 'CHEVRON SYDNEY


BY APPOINTMENT TO
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
JOHN WALKER & SONS. LTD
mm
pipiSp?
MI
Wgmmm
mm
m
The choice is yours-ask for Johnnie Walker
(and enjoy your Scotch more)
A rare treat when you take out this
famous cork and enjoy a nip of Johnnie
Walker—the Scotch of Scotch. Always
delightfully smooth and mellow.
'
Available in miniatures, 5 oz. flasks, 18
oz. flasks and square bottles, and the
popular 26 oz. square bottle.
JOHNNIE WALKER the Scotch of Scotch.
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
JW2961
