

The Bulletin
JANUARY 18; 1964
THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
reraKsefeii®??■>£ .. .. ■ i‘i?='y§£§. -cjj -LT rV?sss£. SsSw “iter ■rA«Yii?r'!L=;- & . JasfKEaSi
THE MIGRANT’#WORLD 1
Australia 2/-, Hew Zealand 2/-, . Malaysia $1
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


BINDIBUS
m
W!
■
*@r-
m
'J#
*■ -' *• ««
*** * , %.~ *
*
*
89$ '
aes
i
r* * • ~
Exclusive color feature from Dr.
Donald F. Thomson on his second
Bindibu expedition among the
Stone-age Australians who speak
no English. They wear no clothes.
They wander the harsh desert
country more than 500 miles from
Alice Springs. They can live where
others would starve. Dr Thomson
tells an absorbing story with
words and photographs in THE
AUSTRALIAN WOMEN’S WEEKLY
THIS WEEK.
WOMEN S WEEKLY


National Notebook
A Couple of Albatrosses
“Tt’s a kind of albatross hanging round
my neck!” This rather odd remark
was made to us the other day by a
visiting British novelist-journalist, Colin
Maclnnes, concerning his best-known
book, “Absolute Beginners”, about Lon-
don low-life (it was meant to indicate
that he was thoroughly tired of critical
emphasis on the thing). It seemed he
was shortly to add another albatross
in the form of a book on Australia for
“Time” magazine. And he is evidently
busying himself here in a search for
time past; he was a boy in Melbourne,
where his mother Angela Thirkell lived
for several years until her return to
Britain in 1931.
Tall and mild, with a fin-de-siecle air,
Maclnnes drew some rather startling
analogies between Australians and the
ancient Greeks and then, to our still
greater surprise, said we reminded him
of Israel. “There is the emphasis on
youth, the feeling of a fortress and an
enemy nearby.” After he had delivered
several bouquets of flattery for these
parts, tempered only by a suggestion that
we should deal better with
the aborigines, he got
on to the subject of James
Morris’s notorious
“Guardian” series. “He
didn’t come to Australia,
he went to Madagascar,”
said Maclnnes. “He mis-
sed the glamor. This place has
glamor—in its inland frontier country,
in the beauty, enterprise and courage
of its people.”
A chain-smoker, he paused to re-
plenish. “Everyone has got so much
nicer here since I left. They were so
bloody There is so much more aware-
ness of the outside world. They might
have heard of Paris then. But never of
■ — say, New Guinea.”
And what about Australians in Lon-
don, that go-ahead club of which he was,
he felt, an honorary member? “They
have to shake their fists in the face of
the Old Bitch,” he said, touching on the
theme of his new novel in the writing,
“Angus: Bard”, a longer than “Gone
With The Wind” epic about an Aus-
tralian singer who makes good in Britain,
based on the career of Maclnnes’s father,
a Canadian singer for whom Vaughan
Williams wrote his first songs.
“There’s a kind of Australian Mafia
there. If one of them puts on a play all
the others come to the theatre and
applaud it loudly. And others get behind
the scenes to push the play through the
public media.” Was Mr Maclnnes hint-
ing perish the thought that Aus-
tralians in London were guilty of
coercion? “Oh yes, of course,” he glinted
mischievously under his thatch of
prematurely white hair.
In Person
HP. H. White, on whose “The Once and
Future King” “Camelot” is based,
seems an even less likely writer than
G. B. Shaw to benefit from having his
original work set to music. Mr White has
the advantage of still being alive when his
book achieves this other immortality. Ap-
parently, “Camelot” hasn’t made much
change to his life on the island of Sark.
A story filtered through to us recently
of two strangers calling on him there.
“We’re Witnesses of Jehovah,” they an-
nounced at the door. White thrust for-
ward his great white beard. “Well, I’m
Jehovah,” he said. “How're we doing?”
Running Wilde
Tj\)R seven long years Reginald Liver-
more, Algernon in the Old Tote’s
“The Importance of Being Earnest,” has
been hailed as a “discovery” and he’s
getting pretty jack of it. After 18 months
at the Phillip Theatre, a
year in England touring
in “Bless the Bride”, 18
months with the Ensem-
ble and two years W'ith
the Union Repertory,
Melbourne, he feels he’s
due to resign as the oldest
established promising young actor in
Sydney.
Over the next few weeks Mr Liver-
more will be running Wilde. He is nar-
rator for the production (mainly for
children) of “The Canterville Ghost,”
which he and John Dennison adapted,
at the Ensemble. Curtain rise will be
moved back from 5.00 to 4.30 p.m., so
that Mr Livermore can finish his Sat-
urday stint at the Ensemble and get
across to the Old Tote in time for “The
Importance.”
Mr Livermore, an amiable young man
with candid green eyes under a forest
of lashes, not only doesn't want to be-
come a professional promising young
actor, he doesn’t even want to make a
name for himself in England. He admits
that a year as a dancer in a company
touring the provinces in a revival of
“Bless the Bride” was hardly a glamor-
ous introduction to English theatre, but,
he says, “it’s the corny old thing I
love Australia too much.”
At present, he is earning his living
with stage work, helped out with TV
and radio, but his preoccupation is not
with w'hether he can in the long run
make a living at acting here. His ambi-
Page
OFFICERS v. THE ARMY _
The right to resign
AROUND MELBOURNE ... 30
BUSINESS AND FINANCE . 40
CROSSWORD 58
EIGHTY YEARS AGO .... 8
FORUM 31
LETTERS 33
MAN ON THE LAND 55
OUT AND ABOUT 16
SCIENCE AND MEDICINE . 20
OVERSEAS 27
PLAIN ENGLISH . 5
POETRY 36
RED PAGE 37
REVIEWS 34
SHORT STORY 22
TANNER 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
•
Migrants: A Hostel is Not a Home 12
Chater in the Public Eye 16
Birdsville: Keeping Track of the
Track * 18
A. J. Liebling: Reporter 19
Word Blindness in Children 20
Short Story: “Woman in Green” .. 22
The Five Red Fingers of China .. 27
Melbourne’s Used Cars and
Gorgeous Capes 30
Crime: The Killer's Victim 31
The Angry American 37
The Rise in Lead and Zinc 40
Functions of a National Develop-
ment Authority 42
ACI: The Current Year 47
Wool Levy Breakthrough 55
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone: 27 5971.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666 Ext. 380.
Vol. 86
No. 4378


tion is to establish a theatre of his own,
along Ensemble lines. However, although
he feels that Hayes Gordon taught him
most of what he knows about the stage,
his theatre when he gets it might offer
very different fare from Mr Gordon’s.
Mr Livermore wants to restore Restora-
tion comedy.
A more immediate ambition is to stage
his second musical, “The Kalgoorlie
Kid” (his first, “The Good Ship Walter
Raleigh” with few acknowledgments
to Gilbert and Sullivan was put on
at the Union Repertory). “It’s only a
romp,” Mr Livermore explained, “but
I’d like to get it on this year. If I wait
any longer I’ll wonder how on earth I
wrote such rubbish.”
The End Of Gwalia
A T the end of this month, when the pub
closes down, the few people still
remaining in the West Australian town-
ship of G\yalia will hand over to the
dusty ghosts of the past 65 years. In
recent weeks the railway pointing to the
desert north from Kalgoorlie has been
loaded with refugees from the Sons of
Gwalia goldmine which closed down
last month.
Death moved on Gwalia (pronounced
Gaul-yuh) as clumsily as it did on the
mine that supported it. Operations were
to have stopped on December 31; on
December 28 a skip of ore over-carried,
damaging the head of the shaft. And that
was that.
The 250 miners, with the strong core
of Italians and Slavs, have been railing
their families and their furniture out to
other mines. The shanties thrown up on
the lease area and the few substantial
buildings in the town (the new £3,500
Police and Citizens’ Youth Club build-
ing, the State school, and the convent)
are deserted. Only the thriving, two-
storey, brick Community Hotel has done
a roaring trade.
Herbert Hoover was manager of the
Sons of Gwalia mine in the early days.
Dr Bertram Wills, who lived in Gwalia’s
twin town Leonora, two miles north, was
among the world's three leading surgeons
when he died, so the “British Medical
Journal” tells us.
This township of Leonora was the
most progressive in Australia in 1908,
said The Bulletin. It had such big-city
touches as a newspaper, electric light,
trams, a comprehensive water scheme,
a hot-shot fire service, and 8000 people.
With the mine closing down, most of
the 200 left in Leonora, too, will have
to go. But the people of the Goldfields
are as sentimental as they are tough,
and there are some who won't leave.
One of them is Goanna Patch Prospec-
tors’ Association secretary George Le
Feuvre. As he says: “Somewhere on the
Goanna Patch field there must be a big
lode that hasn't been found yet.”
Vulgar
hearing that jazz king Eddie Con-
was due in Adelaide for part of the
Festival, a friend of ours recalled an un-
nerving experience at Condon’s New
York establishment many years ago.
It seems that he left a book there one
evening and next morning, repentant and
hung-over, rang Condon’s to get it back.
A solitary cleaner answered in the mel-
ancholy accents of Flatbush:
“Yeah?”
“I left a book there last night.”
“Y'left a what?”
“A book. It’s called ‘Vulgarity in
Literature’, by Aldous Huxley.”
“It's a vulgar what?”
“It’s called ‘Vulgarity in Literature’.
It’s a book ...”
“We're respectable and I’m not goin’
t'look for no dirty books for no bum.”
Tanner
THE RULLETIN January 18, 1964
"The spirit of musjawarah has pre-
vailed.
We will not seek allies in our con-
frontation.
Because it doesn't look as though
we'll get them."


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Hanging in West Australia
/\N January 20 Western Australia
will have its fourth hanging
since 1952. We publish the follow-
ing extracts from evidence before
Britain’s 1949-1950 Royal Commis-
sion on Capital Punishment.
Britain’s famed executioner, Mr
Albert Pierrepoint, in evidence:
Q. —What happens if a prisoner
faints at the last minute?
A. —They carry him to the scaf-
fold . . .
Q. —But what happens if he gets
on to the scaffold and then faints?
A.—He has to go the same.
They pull the lever, and away he
goes.
Q. —Supposing he faints before
you get him to the scaffold?
A.—We would have to carry
him there.
Q. —And put the rope round his
neck?
A.—Yes. There is an officer
on each plank holding him up.
There’s a rope for the officer to
hold on to, and he stands on the
plank and holds him up.
Mr H. N. Gedge, then (unpaid)
Acting Under-Sheriff for the County
of London, was asked by Sir Ernest
Gowers, the Royal Commission’s
chairman, whether men were some-
times hanged sitting on a chair, be-
cause of illness or disability. “That
has happened in London,” said Mr
Gedge, “because a man collapsed
and it was the only way of getting
him on the drop.”
Mr Pierrepoint in further evid-
ence:
Q. —Have you had any awkward
moments?
A.—No, I have only seen one
in all my career.
Q. —What happened?
A.—He was rough. It was un-
fortunate; he was not an English-
man, he was a spy, and he kicked
up rough.
Q. —He went for you?
A.—Not only for me, he went
for everybody.
Q. —Have you ever known a
case where you have not given ex-
actly the right drop and have either
nearly decapitated him or strangled
him instead of dislocating his neck?
A.—l have never seen any signs
of it.
Q. —Never?
A. —Never.
Q. —The knot must always be
under the angle of the left jaw?
A.—Yes.
Q. —That’s very important, is it?
A. —Very important.
Q. —Why is it very important?
A. —If you have the same knot
on the right-hand side, it comes
back behind the neck, and throws
the neck forward, which would
make a strangulation. If you put
it on the left side it finishes up in
front and throws the chin back
and breaks the spinal cord. I have
seen more executions than anybody
living.
Q. —You don’t turn a hair?
A.—No.
Q. —Have you had any experi-
ence of judging what the general
opinion of ordinary people in Eng-
land is about capital punishment?
I imagine that people must talk
to you about your duties?
A.—Yes, but I refuse to speak
about it. It is something I think
should be secret, myself. It’s
sacred to me, really.
Q. —Then have you had no
special opportunity of judging what
people think on these things?
A.—l have thought that, if I
say anything either way, they will
say “It’s his job”, and think I’m
biased towards it. So I keep quiet.
The following extract, including
quotes in evidence, come from
“Hanged By The Neck”, by Arthur
Koestler and C. H. Rolph:
“The experience of the whole
civilised world is that killing, by
whatever means, does not deter
from murder any more effectively
than imprisonment. Abolitionists
sometimes make the mistake of
asserting, without qualification, that
‘hanging is no deterrent’. The
truth about its deterrent value is
more likely to be found in the
measured words of the Report of
the 1949 Royal Commission (para-
graphs 67 to 68):
‘All we can say is that the deter-
rent value of punishment in general
is probably liable to be exaggerated,
and the effect of capital punishment
specially so because of its drastic
and sensational character.’
“We have actually seen and heard
this paragraph quoted as meaning
that capital punishment is ‘specially
deterrent’ because of its character.
It is, therefore, worthwhile to
emphasise that it means the deter-
rent value of capital punishment
(which no sensible person dismisses
entirely) is exaggerated, not that it
is ‘special’. Probably the greatest
authority in the world on the signi-
ficance of murder statistics and their
probable inferences is Professor
Thorsten Sellin, of the University
of Pennsylvania. Here are his
answers to four crucial questions
put to him by the Royal Commis-
sion:
Q. —We cannot conclude from
statistics that capital punishment
has no deterrent effect?
A. —No, there is no such con-
clusion.
Q. —But can we not conclude
that if it has a deterrent effect it
must be rather small?
A. —I can make no such con-
clusion, because I can find no
answer one way or another in these
data. It is impossible to draw any
inference, from the material that is
in my possession, that there is any
relationship between a large number
of executions, small number of
executions, no executions, and what
happens to the murder rates.
Q. —I think you have already
agreed that capital punishment can-
not, on the basis of your figures, be
exercising an overwhelmingly deter-
rent effect?
A. —That is correct.
Q. —But you would not like to
go further than that?
A.—No.”


THIS AUSTRALIA
THE ARMY
The Curious Case of the
Reluctant Officers
An action in the High Court
A. J. FORBES
Duntroon sacked II?
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
11/hen the High Court resumes its
** sittings in Melbourne next month a
significant number of Australia’s 2000-
odd army officers will be watching for
the hearing of the case of Mervyn Alan
Marks v. the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia. Marks, a captain in a survey
regiment based at Bendigo, has under-
taken a test case against the Common-
wealth on a vital principle affecting the
right of Regular Army officers to resign
their commissions.
The origins of the test case go as far
back as 1954, but only in the last year
has the question of an officer’s right to
resign become a major topic of con-
versation in officers’ messes around
Australia.
Australia’s state of war did not
officially terminate until the early 19505,
and it was in December, 1954, that the
Judge Advocate General for the Army
gave a legal opinion to the effect that
an officer could do no more towards
terminating his employment than to
tender his resignation and that the
Governor-General could refuse to accept
it on the advice of his Ministers. In
1959 the Attorney-General confirmed
this and gave the opinion that any
officer, who attempted to test the matter
by de facto termination of his services
after 3 months, was liable to penalty
under Military Law. Later in 1961 the
Attorney-General's Department cited a
New Zealand judgment against an officer
resigning on the grounds that it would
have been detrimental to the service.
So far, largely due to the tight-lipped
traditions of the Army and the fact that
many of the documents concerned in the
cases are “restricted”, there has been
little publicity about a dispute which by
now involves about 50 officers directly
and all officers indirectly.
The test case involves the meaning
of Section 17(1) of the Defence Act
which lays down that “Except during
time of war, an officer may, by writing
under his hand, tender his resignation of
his commission at any time by giving
three months notice.” Marks’ test case
is being financed by subscription from
about 90 officers, not all of whom are
directly involved.
The situation represents a ticklish
problem for the new Army Minister,
Anthony James De Burgh Forbes, who,
as Army officers point out, was himself
a Regular who resigned his commission,
as it so happened, while overseas in
England, to allow himself to go to
Oxford and ultimately into politics.
Yet while this backing of legal opinion
was being built up on the matter, the
Army in practice continued to accept
resignations. Officers who went overseas
on special courses were asked to sign
bonds, and for Duntroon cadets there
was an understanding that they would
serve for five years.
"Out after 1959 the swing in policy to
the elimination of National Service
and the building up of the permanent
Army (which led to an unpublicised purge
of senior officers opposed to this policy)
a shortage of officers, particularly at the
level of captains and lieutenants, became
obvious. During 1962 about half a
dozen specialist engineer officers were
among those who resigned. So the
Military Board decided to act (the change
does not appear to have gone before
Cabinet at all). In the Military Board
instructions of January 14, 1963, it was
laid down that “a permanent com-
missioned officer will normally be re-
quired to serve until retirement”, allow-
ing what it called “extraordinary” circum-
stances. The instructions also noted
that “resignation of a commission . . .
is not a right”.
The Military Board instructions also
applied to applications by officers on
Active List for a transfer to the Reserve
of Officers, a common practice instead
of an outright resignation. Throughout
last year resignations were rejected, some
by the Military Board itself, others
merely by the Adjutant-General in
accordance with policy. Applications
for redress of wrongs to the Board by
individuals failed, as well as appeals to
the Governor-General. By now it is
estimated that about 50 officers are in-
volved, although not all are cases of
direct resignations. At the same time
the Board or the Adjutant-General are
said to have applied the “exceptional”
conditions to three officers and allowed
them to resign.
The Royal Military College at Dun-
troon became involved late last year
when cadets in the final year class were
asked to sign an undertaking to serve
until retirement. A number refused to
sign. Eleven cadets were not allowed to
take final examinations and graduate and
the inference is that most if not all of
these were men who would not sign an
undertaking which they did not anticipate
having to give when they entered the
college.
The Military Board view was summed
up by the then Adjutant-General, Major-
General Daly (now General Officer Com-
manding Eastern Command) last year
when he told a Chief of the General
Staff's conference that “the stage had
been about reached where every pair of
hands counted almost regardless of their
efficiency”.
The present CGS, Lt.-General, Sir
John Wilton, has supported the policy
on the grounds that the serious shortage
of officers justifies it.
But the disquiet in the Army among
officers is far from being limited to
those whose resignations from last year
were blocked. Officers who express mis-
givings about the policy say that a vital
principle is at stake. They claim that
of the resignations outstanding only a
small proportion are, properly speaking,
specialist officers whom the Army might
claim rights over because of expensive
courses and that anyhow in the case of
specialist courses bonds provide an
appropriate protection for the Army.
Within the pyramidal structure of the
Army opportunities for promotion after
major are likely to shrink drastically,
not always for reasons reflecting on the
officer involved. Hence an officer at
40 may decide that his best interests
dictate resignation before he is retired
ten years later and too old to stand
a good chance in looking for jobs. Other
officers point out that, even with the
housing provided for married officers,
frequent postings are likely to take the
gilt off life for the wife or the children
moving from school to school. Also
some men who made a decision at 16
to go to Duntroon may find that an
office job in the Army doesn't provide
them with the adventure they looked for-
ward to. Whatever the causes the
officers who have contributed to the
trust fund to back the legal case in the


High Court (an expensive one with lead-
ing Melbourne counsel, Mr G. Lush,
QC, briefed) want their freedom to
resign.
Apart from the position of com-
missioned officers at present involved,
the leakage of 11 trained men from
Duntroon last year raises the question
of what leakages are likely over the next
few years at Duntroon, and whether the
intake due to go in next month is aware
of their impending commitment to serve
until retirement.
The outcome of the High Court case
could perhaps upset the rulings given so
far, but then there are persistent rumors
that the Army Department has been
working on amendments to the Defence
Act to counteract any adverse legal
decision. The role of Dr Forbes, the
new Army Minister, also provides in-
teresting grounds for speculation. The
former Minister, Mr Cramer, was
hardly a man who might be expected to
go against his advisers but Dr Forbes
might be prepared to differ.
IN THE RED
Launching the New
Communist Party
Both well supplied with cash
TED HILL
Guerrilla groups?
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
U'choing Peking statements that he had
no wish either to cause a split in
the international Communist movement
or to challenge the Soviet Union as
leader, Mr Ted Hill, the pro-Peking for-
mer member of the Communist Party of
Australia, has claimed all along that he
had no intention of forming a pro-Peking
Communist Party with which to attack
the official pro-Moscow Party.
But in fact plans are now well under
way to form the new party.
Based in Melbourne it is to be named
the Australian Communist Party, as
against the existing Communist Party of
Australia (thus following the Chinese
tactic of exploiting national sentiment).
The new party already has a newspaper
“The Vanguard” published every three
or four weeks, the latest issue of which
depicts Khrushchev as an imperialist
spy; and there is a theoretical journal
“The Australian Communist”. Two pam-
phlets hitting hard at Messrs Laurie Aar-
ons, Lance Sharkey and Richard Dixon
have recently been published and an-
other is ready for the press. To sup-
plement these efforts a plentiful supply
of propaganda consisting mainly of
material printed in China is regularly
mailed to those likely to be interested.
The two parties have at least one thing
in common in that they both appear to
be well supplied with cash.
The new party estimates it will start
with a Victorian branch of approxim-
ately 150 as well as the loyalty of a like
number who are still members of the
CP of A. In NSW it is counting on a
membership of 30 (mainly in Sydney)
plus a large number of CP of A sym-
pathisers. Branches of at least ten will be
set up in Brisbane and an as yet un-
known number in Tasmania. In Victoria
it can count on a solid base in such
unions as the Builders’ Laborers, Paint-
ers, Tramways and Wharfies. In Syd-
ney there is an active group in the Whar-
fies and attempts are being made to
build a group in the Building Workers’
Union. There are strong rumours that
Queenslander Bill Bird has thrown his
lot in with the Hill group. Bird, ex-Vic-
torian Secretary of the Seamen’s Union,
came within an ace of defeating E. V.
Elliott for the Union’s Federal Sec-
retary’s job in 1962 and there is also talk
that an all-out campaign will be waged
to ensure Bird's victory in the Seamen’s
elections this year.
Tt is hoped to hold the first Congress of
the Australian Communist Party be-
fore June thus stealing the thunder from
the 20th Congress of the CP of A due to
be held in that month. A preliminary
meeting to plan details of the former is
due to be held in Melbourne during the
Australia Day weekend. Hill is con-
fident of quick recognition of the new
party by the Communist Parties of
China, North Korea, New Zealand, Indo-
nesia and other South - East Asian
parties, the new style Communist Party
of Ceylon and breakaway groups in other
countries.
Meanwhile the CP of A's Disputes
Committee (a kind of MVD) is working
flat out to thwart these plans. One tale
this group is spreading in “orthodox”
party circles is that prior to his expulsion
Hill was advocating the formation of
armed guerrilla groups in Australia.
PUBLISHING
Text-Book War
Four Contenders
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
TPhe opening of the new school year
in NSW will see the beginning of
the biggest text book war the State, or
for that matter, Australia, has ever
seen. Four different sets of books will
contend for the four-year general Science
course market, which has 180,000 high
school students as potential buyers, over
the next four years or so.
Last week saw the exchange of some
preliminary shots starting with a Press
conference held by Professor Harry
Messel whose Nuclear Research Founda-
tion is bringing out one of the text books,
“Science for High School Students,” and
the NSW Government Printer, Mr Vic
Blight, who is printing and distributing
the book.
The conference effectively squashed
rumors that the Government Printer
would not be able to get the
book out in time for the school term,
but also brought the disclosure that
he had invested in £lOO,OOO worth
of binding machinery to do so.
However, Mr Blight told the conference
that the purchase of the machinery would
have been necessary anyhow. Professor
Messel was vehement in his refusal to
be drawn on just how many orders the
Foundation had already obtained for
the text book on the strength of the
pilot edition in circulation since May
last year.
The professor told the Press confer-
ence that the “one thing I shall not
divulge is the figure at the present time.”
But his figure of 300 tons of paper used
in the printing of the first edition led
to calculations from his opponents of a
print run of between 100,000 and
110,000 copies.
Although this was some distance from
earlier estimates of sales of up to
250,000, this figure, on the face of it,
was sufficient to give Professor JMessel’s
book a solid lead. But claims persisted
last week that actual orders from the
schools for the Foundation’s book were
only of the order of 40,000-50,000, with
schools putting in smaller sample orders
and waiting for the opportunity to check
the quality of the competitors.
The rivals, Angus and Robertson,
Jacaranda, and Science Press, are all
aiming to under-cut the total costs of
65/-. The nagging criticism of his price
was enough to make Professor Messel
say last week: “if anyone asks me the
price I’ll throw him out physically”.
But whatever the outcome of the battle,
and as Professor Messel said with feel-
ing last week it would “be a long time”


before the final profit and loss accounts
can be struck, another question was nag-
ging commercial school text book pub-
lishers and printers, as well as the retail
trade. This was what Mr Blight was
going to do with his extra binding
machinery.
Mr Blight, who emerged into the pub-
lic eye at last week’s Press conference
for the first time, proved to be something
of a dandy, wearing a tie with a mirror
on it. He also proved to be a strong
apologist, if not an advocate, for his
office printing text books. One of the
rumours circulating in the printing trade
last week was that Mr Blight’s next
effort might be a combined mathematics
text book.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT
Gold Coast Politics
Residents organise against tourists
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
fT*HE Gold Coast City Council election
on May 2 will be a battle of the
Titans. Last week the Coast’s bustling
tourism mogul Bernard Elsey, 56, threw
his hat into the ring as a Lord Mayoral
candidate, to oppose big, bespectacled,
hard-hitting and controversial Alderman
Ern. Harley, 52, who has been Indepen-
dent (in more ways than one) Lord
Mayor since 1958. Southport store-
keeper, dairy farmer, and company
director Mr Cec. Carey, 56, Country
Party member for Albert in the State
Legislative Assembly, may also enter the
fight. Albert includes the big Gold Coast
town of Southport.
Bernie Elsey is best known as the
owner of the Beachcomber Private Hotel
in the heart of Surfers’ Paradise in which,
with its green-blue swimming pool, have
lodged thousands of interstate holiday-
makers. He received widespread pub-
licity following his clashes with police
in 1959 over the pyjama parties held at
Beachcomber. Teenagers and others
dressed in night attire, including the most
decorative “shortie ’jamas”, with, it was
stated, other clothing underneath. Elsey
said later after a world trip that they had
heard about the pyjama parties and the
police raids in Switzerland.
More recently he was quoted as want-
ing to start a £1 million tourist empire
on the Gold Coast. Last August he paid
£47,500 for the largest single parcel of
land ever sold at Surfers, one and a
half acres with frontages to the Nerang
River and Surfers main thoroughfare,
Cavill Avenue, as a motel-boatel site—
total cost of the proposed development,
£lOO,OOO. Mr Elsey clashed with the
Council, but finally won out in Decem-
ber last year for permission to use land
at Coolangatta for a motel-service station
site. He stood in 1961 as an unsuccess-
ful ALP candidate for alderman on the
Gold Coast Council, but has not
announced any party ticket this time.
Mr Elsey is a tourism fanatic and his
announcement of contesting the Lord
Mayoralty this time is symbolic of the
undercurrent of differences that have
split into factions the leading lights of
the famous Coast. For years there has
been a fight for much greater spending
by the Council on attracting tourists who
swell the permanent population by tens
of thousands. In the forefront of the
“revolutionary” force are the Surfers’
Paradise business people whom some
residents of other towns on the coast refer
to as “conceited” and “parochial”. These
may also be a little jealous, because
Surfers is the glamor centre. Alderman
Harley has won the support of many
permanent residents of the Gold Coast
by adopting the policy that the Council,
while boosting tourism, must concentrate
on overall development, and he has been
a leading advocate for essential, but un-
glamorous, works like roads, sewerage
and water supply. He makes the point
that the township of Surfers’ Paradise
only forms 1.8 miles of the Gold Coast.
Alderman Harley himself is ■ a
mechanical engineer and a former sea-
foods store proprietor. He is a cheerful,
hard-working, energetic man who, of all
things for a live-it-up, get-away-from-it-
all area, is a non-drinker. But, then, so
is Mr Elsey. However, while Mr Elsey
favors extension of drinking hours and
introduction of licensed gambling, Ern.
Harley has publicly opposed drinking in
cafes and restaurants and has attacked
the Government’s legal off-course betting
shops. In fact, Alderman Harley is in-
volved frequently in clashes with the
Country-Liberal State Government on
practically anything from his former sea-
foods shop, which was on Government
land, to delay in building a bridge link
between Southport and Surfers.
Alderman Harley is expected to beat
Bernie Elsey, probably because he
appears as the voice of the permanent
Coast dweller, who has the vote, while
Elsey appears more as the voice of the
tourist, although it must be recognised
that tourists help boost the incomes of
the permanent dwellers.
If anyone cooks Ern. Harley’s goose
it will probably be Mr Cec. Carey, a
quiet man and an excellent ballroom
dancer. As one of the two Gold Coast
representatives in Parliament, he also is
the voice of the permanent Coast dweller.
His record is good, particularly in getting
school buildings. He owns a store in
Southport which is called Carey’s
Corner, and is just as well known as was
Martin's Corner in the long-running
radio serial. An interesting thing about
him was that he put an electric light
point outside bis store so that the Sal-
vation Army could have a light for street
meetings.
THE SLAVE TRADE
80 Years Ago: January 19, 1884
HThe S. Daily Telegraph, in an ultra-
Podsnappish leader on the Sou-
dan difficulty, remarks:— “What does
appeal powerfully to the humanity
of Christendom is the allegation that
the erection of the Soudan into an
independent kingdom or republic will
give a new lease of life to the slave
trade of North Africa. ‘A renuncia-
tion of the Soudan,’ says Mr Broad-
ley, ‘also means the complete triumph
of the slave dealers and their infamous
traffic.’ This is a possible triumph
which angers every Briton.”
The Briton (who never, never,
never will be a slave when he is
half-drunk at a music-hall) is natur-
ally angered at the bare possibility
of the people of the Soudan having
the right to wallop their ow’n niggers.
Slave trade abominations can be
viewed from more than one stand-
point. There is the Exeter Hall plat-
form, and also that of the wretched,
down-trodden Briton, who (thanks to
the political outcome of Jingoistic
proclivities and operations in the
past) has, in reality, ever, ever, ever
been involved in the meshes of a
blacker complexion of slavery than
ever was dreamed of in his least
hopeful moments by the most imagi-
native darkie in the Soudan.
Some of the English papers conclude
that we will cut the painter in
time of war that, in fact, we are
not a brave people.


ABORIGINES
The Cattleman’s
Lament
Encouraging prostitution, destroying labor?
DAVIS DANIAL
“We have our share”
FROM PETTER BLAKE IN DARWIN
From the Arafura to the Centre, cattle-
men in the Northern Territory are
rallying to fight the Federal Government’s
proposals to relax laws which prevent
full-blood aborigines, who are not cit-
izens, from drinking liquor.
As there are probably not more than
a couple of hundred full-blood natives
already entitled to drink, and most of
them are “townies”, the new proposal
takes in nearly every aborigine in the
Territory. It all started in November,
when the Territory’s director of Welfare,
Mr Harry Giese, told the Legislative
Council of the Government’s intentions.
After preliminary rumblings over the
following weeks, cattlemen publicly de-
clared their implacable opposition to the
proposal. Secretary of the North Aus-
tralian Cattlemen’s Association, Mr Jim
Martin, manager of Mataranka station
about 270 miles south of Darwin, an-
nounced: “Our members do not appre-
ciate that we appear to be guinea pigs
in a dangerous Government experiment.
Drink would only nullify the not incon-
siderable progress made by the aborigines
in exchange for the dubious pleasure of
an opportunity to experience the white
man’s hangover.”
Mr Martin said it was the opinion of
Association members, with years of ex-
perience among natives, that the average
station aborigine was still unable to cope
with his domestic and financial problems
without guidance from his employers
(the cattlemen). “It is not likely that
guidance will be given in the same spirit
if inebriation is included,” he commented
sourly.
Cattlemen also believed drink would
lead to moral laxity and eventual dis-
integration of “tribal sanctity”, something
that the Government had appeared to be
trying to preserve. Prostitution and
gambling would become rife, Mr Martin
claimed.
Vociferous support for the cattlemen’s
view has come from that perpetual thorn
in the Government’s side, the member
for Elsey, Mr “Tiger” Brennan. He could
do little else. Mr Brennan’s electorate
takes in a huge area of the Top End
cattle country and the cattlemen are the
people who put him in the Legislative
Council.
“Tiger” weighed in with the observa-
tion that relaxing of drink laws relating
to natives would mean many of them
would hawk their wives around to get
money for drink. This sort of thing
goes on even now, but once drinking
has been made legal, prostitution would
increase heavily at once.”
He favors the setting up of a parlia-
mentary Select Committee to go into the
whole question of native drinking, and
suggested a full scale experiment be tried
at Darwin’s Bagot Welfare settlement
which already has a pretty boozy repu-
tation. “At least at Bagot the police are
within easy call. It’s far different on
a cattle station,” “Tiger” said.
The cattlemen’s first shot has been to
fire off a telegram to the new Minister
for Territories, Mr C. E. Barnes, pro-
testing against the drink proposals. They
are also trying (and they will no doubt
succeed) to enlist the aid of the recently
formed NT Cattle Producers’ Council.
This is made up of the three pastoralists’
organisations in the Territory—the North
Australian Cattlemen’s Association, the
Centralian Pastoralists’ Association, and
the NT Pastoral Lessees’ Association.
Mr Martin says he has “no doubt” cattle-
men in the Centre will hold the same
views as those in the north.
But not all the word slinging has been
on one side. Darwin’s active NT Coun-
cil for Aboriginal Rights and its politi-
cally sophisticated backers have also
hopped in. Nominal spokesman for the
Council, and its secretary full-blood
aborigine, Mr. Davis Danial, was angry
about the prostitution and gambling
claims made by cattlemen and “Tiger”
Brennan. “This is shameful and untrue.
We have our share of bad people just
as the whites have, and we have a share
of good ones, too,” he said. He admit-
ted that there was some native prostitu-
tion but this was because aboriginal
people had been degraded by lack of
equality. He also accused cattlemen of
wanting to keep the aborigines down as
a pool of cheap labor.
The native drink issue has such power-
ful economic as well as emotional over-
tones that it is sure to provoke some of
the most intensive lobbying ever done by
cattlemen. They feel, possibly with
some measure of truth, that their exist-
ence is threatened. Battling as they do,
in some of the toughest cattle country
in the world, they could not survive
without native labor. They are con-
vinced that drink will see the end of the
native stockman as a useful, working
individual.
REPORTER AT LARGE
Brains Behind Bars
“The Bulletin ” on the spot
FROM J.C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
T)entridge would seem an unlikely
place to face a barrage of questions
on economic and international affairs,
but thanks to an invitation from the
Latrobe Debating Society out there
(where the library houses most of the
State’s open debating trophies) I learned
differently.
The most worrying poser from my
questioners was on credit squeezes, the
puzzle being why there should be a fear
, . ... f
of a squeeze now with the balance of
n , . .
payments and overseas reserves positions
so strong, when it is generally acknow-
ledged that the one in 1960 was inflicted
largely because these positions were
weak and worsening. I could only
demur on the suggestion that the fear
was general, and suggest that all that is
possibly required at present is some
mopping up of excess liquidity and, a
little later on, perhaps some additional
restraints like increases in interest rates.
On the subject of the recent revisions
of the Companies Act there was doubt
whether these went far enough to protect
investors and I could only reiterate
thoughts expressed in The Bulletin
that the Act could only go so far with-
out jamming up the works of providing
the necessary capital for industry, and
that the main safeguards for investors
lie in effective management and the
integrity of directors.
They wanted action by the law just
as sternly in the companies field as it is
in the rest of community life.
There was lively concern about the
rate of development and some uneasiness
was expressed that development was
being sacrificed for stability (not to be
confused with stagnation), and that
development was often being pursued


s
V,
4
COMLs
faZC\J&a£C<£, Jo&MAjA
VUaJOZA4 </Qvl* waj&vO- 'wAjZKJL'
iJ&OL. &t&UcL e*
You save think about education needs consider what
ought to be done about the mortgage what income would
be needed if your income stopped how much you’ll need
when you retire . . .
You take out insurance but you take it piece by piece,
from time to time. If it fits your family needs perfectly all
is well; but how can you be certain?
An A.M.P. FAMILY SECURITY CHECK-UP removes all
doubts and uncertainties provides a proper basis for
realistic planning.
A
FOUR POINT»1
FAMILY SECURITY
check-up bei
Your A.M.P. man knows, from training and
experience, how to help you—
O Check the facts related to your present family and
financial position.
© Check the extent of your needs what would be
required if your family had to live without you
what you will require on retirement or to take
advantage of long service leave.
© Check to find if the provisions you have made are
adequate.
Q If they are not, your A.M.P. man will show you a
family security plan tailor-made to your precise
needs and circumstances.
An A.M.P. Family Security Check-Up costs you nothing but a
little of your time—involves you in no obligation except to those
you love. All you have to do is to call in your A.M.P. man or
call the nearest A.M.P. Office.
A
SURE
FRIEND
IN
UNCERTAIN
TIMES
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Head Office: Sydney Cove.
Offices in cities and towns throughout Australia and New Zealand
and in the United Kingdom.
AMP
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by assets of almost £600,000,000 which the Society
seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.
MII6B


COONAWARRA ESTATE*
CLARET
KET
f*Viiti c I If *•
At Coonawarra Estate all
our skills are devoted
exclusively to vintaging
table wine. To achieve
distinctive quality we
have retained many of
the old hand methods
and each vintage is indi-
vidually made to give of
its best.
* " Estate ” (as the word "Chateau” in France)
Is used to distinguish this claret as being the
genuine product of the winegrower’s own
vineyard.
CI3NR
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD.
in the wrong direction, such as beauti-
fying Canberra, constructing artificial
lakes and all that, and not enough on
developing the north.
This led to the question of whether
more should be spent on defence and
peopling the north and by whom,
whether it could ever be done by white
people or whether it would be better to
invite colored immigration.
One came away thinking there is a
wealth of intelligent thinking going on
inside Pentridge by men with clear minds
which were not misted by the high
surrounding walls. Indeed one of the
most intelligent fellows with a year still
to go said he never noticed the for-
bidding grey walls. All around was a
strange but pleasant informality with
warders, much more bored, it seemed,
than their charges, standing near
casually-dressed (panama hats and white
shirts) prisoners who were tending well-
kept gardens and stretches of green
lawn and, inside, painting in a studio
(admittedly cramped) full of good wood-
cuts, etchings, lino cuts and paintings.
Nearby was the office of the editor of
the prison journal, “Stockade”, a print-
ing press, and carpenters’ shop which
made a thousand or more toys last year
and was in the process of making a lot
more.
All this suggests that the authorities,
through the prison’s amenities officer,
approach the welfare problems at Pent-
ridge with sense and humanity.
AIRLINES
A Challenge to
Ansett, TAA
An All-Freight Airline?
SEN. PALTRIDGE
A major decision
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
Oenator Shane Paltridge, the good-
natured ex-publican from Perth,
who holds the often controversial port-
folio of Civil Aviation, looks like facing
a major policy decision some time late
next month. As a member of a free-
enterprise Government he will have the
choice between free enterprise or pro-
tecting the two existing major Australian
airlines against challenge from a third
private operator.
If the application were to smooth the
way for a challenge to passengers
services, Government policy and pre-
cedent would be clear. When Mr C. A.
Butler tried to make a come-back by
planning for interstate air traffic with
imported jets, it was made clear that
his application for import licences would
never be approved.
Where the Government effectively
controls its air services is through the
issue of import licences for expensive
overseas aircraft. Under Section 92 the
Federal Government cannot refuse appli-
cations for rights to operate aircraft
interstate inside Australia, but unless any
rival to the existing operators could
obtain import licences to bring in the
aircraft, it would have no chance of
successfully getting under way.
But the application for import licences
that Senator Paltridge will have to con-
sider will be unique for Australia,
because it will be designed to open the
way for an all-freight airline, the first
of its kind in Australia.
The company planning the applica-
tion and working on their draft sub-
mission is Inter-State Parcel Express
Company Ltd, which in the last few
years has captured virtually all the over-
night express parcel services between
capital cities. IPEC, as it is known, has
been rather tight-lipped about the details
of its plans in case premature disclosures
might be misinterpreted as an attempt to
blackmail the Department of Civil Avia-
tion into consent. News of the plans
leaked out through a circular which
IPEC sent to its customers throughout
the country asking them whether they
felt that “Australian industry in general
and your business in particular” are at
present adequately served by the existing
air-freight services.
The wide range of answers from all
industries received by IPEC show a
degree of dissatisfaction with existing
services. The Comptroller of Stores of
one of the major banks in one letter
spoke of existing services as being
“erratic, expensive, and inconvenient”,
while a Perth department store claimed
that it was not unusual for freight to
the Eastern States to take five to seven
days in busy times. IPEC further
bolsters its case by citing figures from
the Commonwealth Year Books and the
Minister’s reports on the decline of
total air freight carried from 84,446 tons
in 1955-56 to 58,237 tons in 1961-62.
IPEC is already in the air-freight
business running a service across Bass
Strait using chartered DC-3s. It started
the service in February last year with
a daily freight load of just under 3000
pounds, but by the end of November the
two aircraft were carrying a total of
13,510 pounds a day.
The 34-year-old managing director of
IPEC, Mr Gordon Barton, claims that
his company's fleet of 300 panel vans
has already been taking a lot of traffic
away from the airlines because of the
inadequacy of their services. For pre-
cedents for all-freight airlines he points
to overseas cases like Slick and Flying
Tiger, the two big US operators. But in
the past both TAA and Ansett-ANA
have proved themselves formidable in
protecting their interests at Canberra.
Certainly the case from IPEC will have
to be strong to push the Government
towards allowing a change in the airline
pattern.


A Hostel Is Not a Home
What it feels like to be a New Australian
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Just 18 stops from Central Railway,
the Sydney suburb of Leightonfield
with its red-brick horrors, scrubby
palms and untidy look of sudden
suburban growth, looks just the kind of
place to make Robin Boyd wake up
screaming in the middle of the night.
Somewhere in the heart of this grim
purlieu is a large, cleared space, with
scattered eucalypts on parched grass,
parrots glittering in the branches, and
no sign, at first, of human habitation as
you drive in from the highway. A park
snatched in a fit of conscience from the
brick sprawl? That's how it looks for a
minute or two, but quickly you’re
brought down to earth. Pale, pastel-
shaded though they are, the things that
look like huge abandoned cans are
Nissen huts, reminiscent of wartime shots
of prison camps minus the barbed wire,
baying dogs and restless searchlights.
This is Villawood, biggest of Aus-
tralian migrant hostels (population around
1,425 at last count, capacity 2,750) and
temporary home for a steady flow of
assisted newcomers, English, Dutch,
Italian and other nationalities. One of the
better, less pot-holed and neater gardened
hostels in the country, it is fairly re-
presentative of the others. No one means
to stay there very long: the idea is to
save enough for a block of land, set up
anything, tent, humpy, house, and clear
out. But for many there are endless de-
lays in going: a wife may be unwilling
to leave her children and go out to work
(despite the excellent child-minding
centres—perhaps the most consistently
satisfactory feature of the hostels) and
this may mean trouble in saving the
necessary money. Also, sometimes, in
the early and often painful adjustments
to communal life, nerves may snap and
families move out into grossly over-
rented houses which they share, with the
inevitable squabbles and expenses, until
they move back to the hostels wiser but
poorer for the experience.
p or the British, those in middle age
a t an y ra te, there is the difficulty of
adapting to a casual way of life: it’s not
easy for a man who has worn a suit every
<3 a y of his life and has never done much
more than show his braces at Blackpool
or Margate to learn to walk around in
a beach shirt, shorts and thongs. The
change of diet is also a problem: most
British people are used to a hot meal
in the middle of the day, and the Aus-
tralian steak breakfast and sandwich
lunch are hard to get used to. There are
the unaccustomed heat and torrential
rains, the eye - piercing light and the
absence of a cushioning Welfare State.
When men are thrown heavily on their
own initiative, practical resourcefulness,
and courage after years of the softening-
up, taut, rather initiative-reducing uni-
formity of British life, they tend to
go through a catharsis. Apathy, tired-
ness, pessimism, those dominant moods
of life in England which every migrant I
spoke to without exception referred to,
are replaced here by enthusiasm, force-
fulness and cheerful optimism, and this
tends —one doesn’t quite know why—
to strike off a note of bitterness in some
newcomers.
In other words, for the British migrant
there is the question of stripping away
the past, of making himself anew. Much
of the agony of this process is reflected
in the endless Press clippings referring
to migrant complaints about hostel life.
Claustrophobia in the tiny huts, mass
cooking, the din of huge canteens where
hundreds must sometimes eat together,
communal toilets and bathrooms of
primitive quality, inaccessibility of trans-
port —all these are attacked in letter after
letter to the Press, yet not, one feels,
so much for themselves as for what they
represent of a new country, and the
trouble of readjustment to that country.
Women, particularly, feel the lack of
a home most acutely, and although at
first they enjoy the release from cooking
and washing up they begin to pine for
a home-cooked meal; their natural desire
to feed their own children is frustrated.
From this springs the desire to go all
the way home —to England, where at
least their parents will probably still have
a place with its own kitchen and bath-
room. The strictly sensible and practical
migrant will know that a hostel is not,
and never can be, a home and will think


only of getting out to the block of land
and the dwelling which will make him
a part of Australia; but many are not so
sensible or so practical and they fre-
quently blame the hostel for not being
what it never set out to be.
There has always been unrest at Villa-
wood —and it is not by any means the
most attacked of the hostels. The year
1961 must be engraved on the hearts of
those who operate Commonwealth
Hostels Ltd, a non-profit making or-
ganisation, subsidised partly by the tax-
payer and partly by migrant-paid fees,
which operates all the hostels in the
country. Bitter complaints came that
year from Canberra’s Ainslie Hostel, and
the occupants sent an official delegation
to the Department of Immigration
grumbling about the food. At Villawood,
people spoke of “virtual starvation, stink
and degradation,” the bakery, storeroom
and child-minding centre were attacked,
and the manager retorted that the
residents smashed more than £2OO worth
of crockery a month.
In July of the same year 1000
migrants rioted at Bonegilla Camp, near
Albury, smashed windows and turned
over a police car crying, “give us work
or send us back to Europe.” They
marched up and down outside the
employment office; Italians shouted at
Germans, claiming they had the pre-
ference of employment; the mob stoned
the managerial office, tore away a wall
and broke up the interior. When a police
constable arrived he was kicked and
beaten.
Three years before, 500 migrants at
Villawood had sent a telegram to Sir
Robert Menzies protesting at camp con-
ditions; managers were said to resemble
Gestapo officers and phrases like
“migrants live like ants” were heard. As
recently as June, 1963, the hostels have
had their biggest thrashing following the
murder of schoolgirl Monica Schofield
on a two-mile walk from Sydney’s Heath-
cote Road Hostel to school. Letters in
the Press pointed out that inadequate
protection, lack of transport and care-
lessness in hostel administration had cost
the migrant child her life.
At Villawood, conversations with man-
agement staff and migrants helped
to fill in a picture. The huts are like
tiny scale model bungalows, clean but
cramped. Suitable at most for a couple,
they often accommodate families of
seven, eight, nine or even more. A TV
set, divan, chest of drawers, and bedroom
furniture are squeezed into these dolls’
houses. In the heat on fine days, doors
are flung open to give an illusion of
space and airiness, but the hot rainy
nights with walks to the communal toilets
or bathrooms are obviously thoroughly
unpleasant. Many migrants are shocked
at the amount of rain here and find the
long months of wet, chilly weather trying
(one easily forgets how much worse it
is in, say, Leeds).
Gangs of adolescent boys roam
around, some from the hostel itself,
some from the neighborhood. They turn
over cars, slash the car-seats and cut
fly-screens.
The manager at Villawood. a bluff
and energetic Englishman who used to
cater for pipeline crews in the Middle
East, keeps a complaints book, and ac-
tion is always taken on the basis of an
entry. Migrants are encouraged to keep
their huts clean, and if they fall down
too badly the staff simply invades and
scrubs them down.
The first woman I met was the sort
of “model migrant” whom hostel man-
agers like to show off to the visitor. A
small, brisk woman, she had the flat
vowels of the Lancashire dialect in her
voice. She came from Blackpool, had
arrived eight weeks before on the “Fair-
sky,” and said the hostel was much what
she had expected. “It’s quite good, con-
sidering. There’s plenty of space. My
husband and I wanted to come here five
years ago but the people we was coming
with kept putting us off.
“Finally w'e decided to come on our
own. It was the climate that drove us
out. We saw the announcements in the
paper about Australia and wrote for the
leaflets. We plan to give it a try. You’ve
got to give it two years to be fair,
haven’t you? The food well, I’d like
to see a good mixed grill again. But you
can’t have everything, can you?”
The next visit brought a very different
story. In one of the shabbier huts a
former photostencil printer, his wife and
five children lived very discontentedly
indeed. Arthur Bailey is a slight, tired-
looking man who has obviously been
through it during the last few years.
Polite, intelligent and well-spoken, he
told me that an unskilled worker with
a family living in the hostels had “no
hope” of getting out (he and his wife
had already been there two and a half
years). “The manager and staff here
have got used to the idea of lack of dis-
cipline among the kids and teenagers,”
Bailey said. “The hostel children take
the taps off the wash-basins and gener-
ally make a mess everywhere. But the
parents are also to blame they empty
the kiddies’ potties outside the doors.
The food reall> is awful. And so is the
business of fetching and carrying water
when it’s raining.”
TAid Bailey regret coming to Australia?
“Well I had a good job in England
at a spot near Windsor, with a house
thrown in. I left because of the way I
reacted to the morning papers, you know,
Khrushchev, Kennedy, I could see the
British Isles- would be the first to be
cleaned off the map in any war.
“I saw slides in England of life in
Australia. I’d already been to Perth as
a boy. Was I better off in England? Well,
I had a three bedroom house, kept a
garden, redecorated every year . . . yet
I think for young people, especially
those without a family, it’s better here.
“A boy can get an apprenticeship and
a reasonable wage much easier here.
It’s much tougher for the young bloke
to get ahead there than it is here. In a
way, I belong to an unfortunate genera-
tion. I’m 41, which means I lost six
good years in the war. I’ve been unlucky,
but I wouldn’t put anyone off coming.”
Another couple I spoke to said they
were far from happy with hostel life,
but had tried living outside and had
come back. It had cost them £ll a week
to rent a run-down house in Fairfield,
shared with another family. The sharing
hadn’t worked out. In England, they had
rented a council house for £2 2s. a
week and the husband had earned
£l3 10s. sterling a week at Ford’s. Here
he earned £lB 2s. a week and it didn’t
go as far.
One constant complaint from these
and other migrants I spoke to was that
they weren’t informed fully in England
about conditions here, that they didn’t
know precisely what a hostel was, the
cost of land, etc. To find out just what
they did learn about Australia on board
ship (assuming that most wouldn’t read
the literature handed out in England
everyone knows that handout pamphlets
were born not to be read) I went to the
Oriana by launch when she came
through the Sydney Harbor Heads. All
the new arrivals I spoke to gave me, in
answer to my question, a surprisingly
accurate and detailed account of hostels,
how much they would need to buy a
house, and so on. The reason they were
so thoroughly well informed had partly
to do with their own obvious intelligence
and common sense, but was mainly due
to the presence on board of a Welfare
Officer (in this case a British woman
who was a settled migrant) who gave
regular talks on board and answered
questions—the more awkward the better
on problems of living here.
Since Welfare Officers are present on
all migrant ships and are weli briefed,
there seems no cause for anyone to
complain that they aren’t warned in
advance. Yet it’s easy to forget what
you heard in the cozy atmosphere of a
ship, where even the toughest facts can
be sw'allowed with equanimity, when
you’re fetching water for the kids on
a hot, wet night at Villawood.
For the majority of migrants from
Britain, unheard in the Press here be-
cause their statements of approval would


THE THIRD
ADELAIDE
FESTIVAL
OFARTS
7-21 MARCH/1964
to be opened by Her Majesty
Queen Elizabeth
The Queen Mother
visit Adelaide
next March for a
festival fortnight
of music, opera,
ballet, drama, jazz,
art and pageantry
fnclude these Australian firsts
In your programme:
First Australian performance of
Benjamin Britten’s WAR REQUIEM
With the Sydney Symphony Orchestra
and the Festival Choir
First Australian performance of
William Walton's TROILUS and CRESS/DA
with Richard Lewis and Marie Collier
World Premiere of a new Helpmann ballet by
the AUSTRALIAN BALLET COMPANY
First Australian appearance of the BAYANIHAN
PHILIPPINE DANCE COMPANY
John Bell who will appear
as Henry in The Festival
productjpn of "Henry V".
m
m
irtitak..
iHP
mm
/
m
r
&
\ !
\
\ \
\\
* \
<0
Other Festival highlights include:
SYDNEY and SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRAS
HENRY V with John Bell
(Shakespeare 400th Anniversary)
BLACK THEATRE OF PRAGUE
BOYD, NOLAN, DRYSDALE
Exhibitions
PLAY OF DANIEL
with the Deller Consort
CHILDREN'S THEATRE
Avoid Disappointment-Book Now
BOOKINGS NOW OPEN
Full Programmes and Booking Order
Forms available from all Airlines and
Travel Agents, or from
The South Australian Government
Tourist Bureau
390 George Street, Sydney
8 Royal Arcade, Melbourne
18 King William Street, Adelaide
or from the Festival Office,
G.P.0.80x 1960, Adelaide, Sth. Aust.
Interstate visitors can arrange combined
Travel-Theatre bookings with Ansett-ANA,
TAA or Ansett-Pioneer.


scarcely make brisk reading, there is,
after land has been bought and house
built, a slow but definite absorption into
Australian suburbia. Tans are acquired,
thongs donned, surfing understood and
such local rituals as morning showers
and Sunday car hosings learned and
made habitual.
T>ut if the British fit more or less to
** the pattern, the Italians and other
nationalities can’t expect to do so nearly
so easily. Most of the Italians pay their
own fares, the father or another male
arriving first to prepare the way for the
family. To raise the money to come, they
will frequently borrow heavily, taking
many years to repay. They tend to think
more of their children’s future than they
do of their own. They endure years of
struggle with remarkable equanimity,
working to put deposits on houses which
they sublet to other Italian families to
meet the repayments. Italians cheerfully
exploit each other in this way.
Most of the Italians I spoke to were
tough, hard-working, practical men
mechanics, stone-masons, carpenters,
painters who as well as putting in a very
good day’s work (and often half a
night’s) do miracles with their near-slum
dwellings, installing new kitchens, laying
new floors, and producing a house that
will quite often shame its Australian-
owned neighbors’. They work long
hours at a pressure which would slay
most of us here. Almost all I talked to
liked and disliked the same things about
Australia: they liked the comparative
classlessness, the fact that they no longer
felt inferior, the warm, changeable
climate so like southern Italy, the ease
with which money could be earned and
saved, the sense of optimism everywhere
about the future in a country whose
psychological climate seemed far from
European angst. Physically, they know
that despite the Common Market they
are never likely to have it so good any-
where else now that America is closed
to them. Yet they dislike the drunken-
ness, the lack of family cohesion and
parental responsibility, the carelessness
and slovenliness they see around them
in the poor districts where they live.
And a few with surprising sophistication
pointed mockingly to the myth that there
is no “poverty” in Australia. The old-
time Italian migrants, those who had
been here for 30 years or more, noted
(unlike the Greeks) the gradual decline
of crude prejudice here; it was, they felt,
a far cry from the days an Australian
Prime Minister could refer to “dagoes.”
The unhappiest Italians I met were
bachelors, who missed the street-corner
life of home, the open eyeing of girls,
easy early marriages and readily avail-
ability of nubile young women.
Sexual frustration among migrant
bachelors undoubtedly sparks off ag-
gressions, discontent, friction on the job
and probably, anti-Australianism. The
sterile air of the Italian social clubs with
their one armed bandits, beer and wine,
scarcely compensate for the vulgar, exu-
berant, overpoweringly vital life of the
European street.
The Greeks seem to have a rather
richer texture of life here than the
Italians. Recognising quickly that the
Australian sports of surfing, tennis, golf,
bowls, cricket are too wildly far-out for
them to encompass (and adapting to a
sports-mad country is difficult for many
who have scarcely done more than kick
a ball against a wall) they have built a
complex life around the soccer clubs,
beautifully described by David Martin
in his novel “The Young Wife ” Greek
films, the strong flavor of Greek religious
life, and the assiduous importing of
brides to assuage the young men’s appe-
tites and keep the family tradition in-
tact, all add dashes of common sense
to the migrant melting-pot. Yet many
still find it hard to adapt.
In the rowdy, raucous atmosphere of
a Greek club on New Year’s Eve,
I talked to several members about how
they found life here. One man, whom
I will call (because he doesn’t want his
name used) Spyros Papathanassopoulos,
said he had been driven off the Greek
island where he lived because of unem-
ployment, and that this was the usual
reason for his people leaving home.
“The son will come first to Australia,”
he said. “Sometimes the eldest son, some-
times another. He will then try to save
the money for the others to follow him.
And he must save a dowry for his sisters
before he can marry, himself.
“My brother had come to Australia
first and he said, you will not starve in
Australia. But when I come here, I find
many things I do not like. First, in
Greece you never see men and especially
women lining up in a pub to come out
drunk.
“Second, in Greece you never see an
average working man on Friday take his
pay packet and use it all up at the races
and the pub.
“Here you cannot approach mentally
the Australian man or woman as you
do your own people. 1 will say that part
of the problem is because I migrated
late. It is different for the young people.
“But even for them there will be pre-
judice to face. In the factories where I
have worked the boss has behaved en-
tirely different to migrants he say,
‘Do this, hurry up, do that or I’ll give
you notice, why did you go to the
lavatory 10 minutes,’ and to get jobs I
have had to bribe the boss £lO, £2O.
The unions are much to blame. They
make no effort to get the migrant work-
ers the same treatment.”
An official of the club agreed with this.
Other migrants I spoke to there echoed
“Spyros’ ” dislike of beer-drunkenness,
gambling, wastefulness, and many said
that they were exploited by their own
people on arriving here. “I had to work
terrible hours, all round the clock for
my uncle,” one man said. “And he only
paid me £5 a week. He put a false figure
into the books to make it up to the legal
basic wage.” Such stories were common
in the club. Did the Greeks like any-
thing about Australia?
“Well I tell you,” one said. “It is only
the fact that there is no work in Greece
that makes us leave. But we all leave
there thinking only of going back. To
save enough money, and go back to
the village. Many of us never make it.
But we never lose the hope. Yes, I can
not deny, Australia is one of the most
beautiful countries in the world. The
people as a whole are very good. The
prejudiced are in a minority. But we feel
them enough to not feel quite at home
here. And this keeps the idea of going
home one day burning very bright.”
HPhe northern Europeans, solid assidu-
A ous Dutch and brisk, aggressive
Germans, avoid the mass mixing, the
overpowering togetherness of the south-
erners, and on the whole fit smoothly
into our society without adding a very
distinct new dimension to it (except per-
haps in the excellence of their crafts-
manship and their famous efficiency). Of
all the migrants, the Hungarians seem
the most varied and politically at logger-
heads: there are Communists, anti-Com-
munist revolutionaries, Nazis (a sur-
prisingly strong group, with headquarters
in Adelaide and a habit of displaying
the star swastika and pictures of long-
dead Hungarian Nazi leaders) and a
powerful class of bourgeois and petit
bourgeois engaged at all levels of society.
Australia does on the whole, I think,
give the more practical migrants what
they want; but we cannot afford, as we
so often do, to let them drift along, in-
different to what they do and calling that
indifference, tolerance. What the
migrant looks for is a sense of identity
in the society we have built for ourselves.
Whether he finds it in Australia may
well be the deciding factor in making
him positively like life here, or in making
him blankly indifferent to it, using it for
money and dreaming (often futilely) of
a return to Europe.


BEWARE OF IMITATIONS
INSTAL GENUINE
‘FLOATING ACTION’ garage door fittings
From Hardware stores everywhere
OUT AND ABOUT
Chater in the Public Eye
“Call me the poor man’s Andrea”
By PATRICIA ROLFE
A year ago Sydney actor Gordon
Chater had his bags packed for
an extended tour of South Am-
erica. This was advertising that he w ; as
out of work as effectively as if he’d
hired a sky-writer. Now he is desperately
trying to fit in two weeks at the Barrier
Reef some time in the winter
In the past year he has appeared in
the Old Tote’s initial production, “The
Cherry Orchard,” then in a Phillip
Theatre revue, “Do You Mind?” which,
reportedly, helped to get the theatre out
of the red and enabled it to afford “The
Private Ear and The Public Eye”
which could run for another four or
five months with Mr Chater aboard.
He has now begun a daytime session
on Radio 2UE, following on Andrea
and Mrs Elsa Jacoby. “Call me the
poor man’s Andrea,” he ordered. Mr
Chater has obviously taken on a for-
midable task, stepping into such shoes,
but the basic idea behind his session
is that it might show people that actors
can be intelligent. This seems a fairly
forlorn enterprise, but if anyone could
pull it off it would be Mr Chater.
In his session he talks on a variety
of subjects, from suntan oils to interior
decorating, but not often about the
theatre. He said he was up every morn-
ing these days at six o’clock, snipping
items out of the papers, but he has em-
ployed Eric Rasdell to write some items
in case his own flow of talk should stop.
This hasn’t happened yet, and one would
consider it unlikely that it would. (Mr
Chater has lately developed a tendency
to use a lordly “one” instead of “I.”
One finds it catching.)
“One could spend most of the time
telling Australians what a marvellous
country this is to live in,” he said. “Aus-
tralians are always denigrating their
country, so if one does something to
balance that, the session will be worth
while.”
English-born Mr Chater, a “New Aus-
tralian of 18 years’ standing” has become
one of the local actors who is regarded
as a “draw,” whose name alone can
get people into the theatre. The history
of Phillip Theatre might seem to bear
this out, but Mr Chater has a fairly
modest theory about it.
“All I know is that when I appeared
in ‘Romanoff and Juliet’ I w ; as a re-
sounding flop,” he said. “Of course, if
I have splendid material, which is to
the public taste, a splendid director and
superb support and the right sort of
publicity, then I might be a draw. But
the only time I believe it is when I am
discussing salary.”
Fairly loquacious on any number of
subjects, Mr Chater believes in discus-
sing money at length before signing a
contract. One of his dicta is that an
actor should always get his price. How-
ever, when he went into “The Cherry
Orchard” he obviously broke his own
rule. The Old Tote has been able to
function successfully only by paying
very modest salaries. But Mr Chater
regards the Old Tote not as a splendid
gesture but as a growth stock
“If out of the Old Tote we build up
the nucleus of a national theatre com-
pany which can go on Commonwealth-
wide tours or on exchange with similar
groups in other cities, then actors w'ill
begin to get their dividends from it,”
he said. If Mr Chater can always get
his price these days, he served a long
apprenticeship. “Don’t forget,” he cau-
tioned, “that from 1946 to 1959 I
averaged the basic wage. And after June
I may never work again. Who knows?”
It is hard to believe that, but, if it were
sad but true, Mr Chater has got the
beginning of a hedge against destitution
with a house at Paddington and a grow-
ing share portfolio.
Mr Chater made his reputation here in
revue, but he has progressed through
exposure to pantomime and knockabout
farce to the point when he can under-
take a straight role, such as his Julian
Cristoforou in “The Public Eye” with
equanimity “provided there is a good
director.” “Although,” he points out, “it
is far more arduous to sustain one char-
acter for an hour than it is to create
17 different characters in an hour.”
Mr Chater feels greatly in sympathy
w'ith Julian Cristoforou, and so with
Peter Shaeffer w'ho w'rote the plays.
“There is one speech,” he said, “that
goes: ‘I realised something then about
myself. I had not been made to bear
the responsibility of a private life. Ob-
viously, nature had not intended me to
have one. I have been created to spend
my time in public. This thought simply
delighted me. Alone I did not exist. I
came alive only against the background
of other people's lives’.” Mr Chater grew
momentarily thoughtful and perhaps
drew some private conclusion from this.
He then pointed out that Julian Cristo-
forou’s initials w'ere J.C., the same as
Jesus Christ. Some might think this
blasphemous. Mr Chater does not.
Mr Chater nurses private ambitions to
play tragedy, to w'rite a play and to
direct. The first two he probably takes
out every now and then to shake the
moths out of them, but there seems
no good reason why he shouldn’t be
within striking distance of the third.
He has always insisted that he is not
a funny man and has now developed a
glum resignation towards people who ex-
pect him to split their sides for them
on sight.
“People say to you, ‘We just fall apart


■
ca
..
■Ill
m*-
' ....
m
mm
I s«s§
-44
i
:
. ' .
1
::: : .
m.
■
:
||j|f
ir’
%
' ' : : - v
--> -4 '
' > 15!
" 5S ” a-s*
-V f v
'- SIMM'S
L -4>
It's fun to fly
(when you fly with Qantas)
Fun all the way. For example: liqueurs and after dinner coffee at 40,000 feet—-
only a taste of the enjoyment you get when you fly Qantas. For we think flying
should be fun for everyone. That’s why we take it so seriously. Every little
detail perfectly arranged. More than 6,500 Qantas people thinking of your needs
before you’ve thought of them yourself. Pleasant people booking your luggage,
preparing your food, serving your drinks, giving you pleasant service. Pleasant
people at the Qantas Australian centres in the places you visit. Whether you fly
near or far, First or Economy, you enjoy much more
when you fly with Qantas, Australia’s big round-
world airline. See your Travel Agent or Qantas.
QANTAS
43 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
OANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in association with Air India. 8.0.A.C.. S.A.A. and TEAL.
<335.107.14


CHEVRON HILTON
Sydney’s focal point for all
IMPORTANT FUNCTIONS
Whether it’s a banquet, dinner
party, grand ball, wedding break-
fast, convention, sales meeting or
cocktail party, enjoy the luxury and
service of Sydney’s most experi-
enced hotel.
Before making arrangements for
your social or business function,
contact the banquet Manager,
Phone: 35-0433 or write direct to
$ CHEVRON HILTON
Macleay St., Pott's Point, Sydney.
CHEV/1689
ANCESTRY TRACED
Historical research can help you discover your
British Ancestors. Total outlay of £A3S brings
professional report with documents.
BROOKS & SIMPSON
Genealogists
5 FENCHURCH STREET, LONDON, E.C.3
when we see you,’ but it’s not true,” he
said. “And every comic, even the great
ones, has his writers, even if for some
of them they only just act as a sort of
filter. I might get initial ideas for revue
sketches, or I might shape a thing a
bit, but it’s wonderful to have good lines.
In a revue you have about two and a
half seconds to establish a character, so
the script just must be right. But, of
course, you’ve got to be able to put it
across. There are always the people who
are hilarious in the dressing-room but
can’t get it across the footlights. You’ve
always got to be ponging it across loud
and clear,” Mr Chater said and seemed
gratified when almost everyone in the
restaurant looked up startled.
Keeping Track of the Track
A drink from the Diamantina
By V. S. HALL
The Royal Automobile Club of
Australia’s decision to survey
the Birdsville Track will be
applauded by people everywhere after
the recent deaths of the Page family 45
miles south of Birdsville.
The bushman who lives in the area
will be a little sceptical of its value,
however. Putting up markers and dis-
tance signs will be fine, but of what avail
will they be when the road one travels
might be five miles distant from that
used last week?
Shifting sands, floods and bogs, after
even medium rainfall, make long detours
and sidetracks commonplace along The
Track. To cope with the sand alone,
standard equipment on the mail truck
and heavy vehicles is a set of boiler
plates or heavy wire mesh for making a
firm foundation over the shifting sand-
hills.
The Page family was found on a side
road some distance from what is re-
garded as the main Birdsville Track. But
the road on which they were discovered
probably was in itself part of the Birds-
ville Track. Bogs, break-downs and
shifting sands have forced the bushmen
of the area to make dozens of detours
along almost the whole length of The
Track during the last 60 years or more.
At times conditions make it necessary
for a driver literally to make his own
road. The main cattle route is clearly
defined, but it is not always negotiable
by a motor vehicle.
These factors will make the RAC
survey team’s task of marking a clearly
defined and permanent route one which,
on the surface, appears almost im-
possible. The Birdsville Track, especially
the Channel Country section in which the
Pages died, is a land which can change
from a stark wilderness to meadows of
billy buttons and everlastings and thou-
sands of small lakes, then back to its
original state, in just a few days.
It is one of the best cattle-fattening
areas in the world it is also one of the
hardest areas in the world in which to
make a living. Even the locals call it
“Starvation Corner”, although for a
handful of big graziers it has become the
promised land. Mainly, however, it is
only a matter of yards from lush vegeta-
tion to claypan and gibber plain.
I spent six years in this area and I
enjoyed it. The locals say “Once you’ve
had a drink from the Diamantina you
will return”.
Where the Pages perished there are
tragic reminders of the severity of this
land in the small abandoned home-
steads of the soldier settlers from World
War I who, backed by a grateful Govern-
ment, tried to wrest a living from a land
which can beckon so alluringly in good
times and then crush everything with
just a few days of searing heat.
Tragically, the Pages had crossed the
worst of the Birdsville Track when their
petrol ran out and they walked away
from their car. Behind them was Clif-
ton Hills homestead which must surely
be located among the most arid sur-
roundings of any homestead in Austra-
lia.
Immediately to the west of the home-
stead the scene changes. Here is the
Warburton River, 60 miles wide in flood
a vast expanse of bare river bed and
sand hummocks in dry. South of Clif-
ton Hills is gibber plain and sandhills.
Mile upon mile of it as far as the eye can
see.
North of Clifton Hills it is still gibber
plain and sandhill to Goyder’s Lagoon,
but from there the country changes.
This is the land of the claypan and
sandhill. I first travelled this track in
a three-ton, four-wheel drive truck when
the first, great flood of 1949-50 was
starting. We took three weeks to cover
just over 300 miles.
The beef cattle exist in this land and
grow fat on the Mitchell grass as in
very few other places in the world. But
the Mitchell grass is mostly all gone in
summer. This is the season after the
big fattening drives have reached market
and only the skeleton of a herd remains
on the property.
The people of the area lead a lonely
life but by no means a cheerless one.
The joke of the area when I first arrived
was the three weeks it took us to make
the trip from Maree to Birdsville
normally two to three days. A friend
and I were in Maree at a “loose end”.
We wanted to see Birdsville and The
Track. We were “new chums” but canny
enough not to tackle it yet on our own.
Mr Ron Michel, the mayor, publican
and sole adult male population of Betoo-
ta, 103 miles east of Birdsville, was
taking a load of supplies, liquid, solid
and perishable, to his hotel to avoid the
high freight rates. A flood was expected
but had not yet passed Birdsville.
Mr Michel intended to take a crate of
young ducklings with him. The trip took
so long that those ducklings were duck-
lings no longer when we arrived. They
became excellent swimmers on the trip
and so well trained that when we stop-
ped (always beside a flooded claypan)
they took a swim, then returned un-
escorted to the crate for tea. We eventu-
ally became known as “The Duckling
Express”.
This is the land in which the Pages
died. It is beautiful, wonderful and
ever-changing. There is one thing, how-
ever, that is changeless. Looking at the
velvet sky pinpointed with stars seem-
ingly within reaching distance and listen-
ing to the sounds of the wilderness, it
seems friendly and warm until one shifts
one’s eyes from the sky and the campfire.
Then one feels the darkness, the distance
and the death that the Pages met just
outside the comforting circle of light
and security. That is what is changeless.


Too Much
Warmth
This can certainly break up friendships.
Especially in Summer. The answer is more
coolth. The office building is a good
example. Everyone wants better air con-
ditions, especially if accompanied by low
costs. This is where controlled mechanical
ventilation comes into its own. It re-
moves all stale air, smoke, cooking
odours and the like, replacing con-
tinuously with clean filtered air. No need
to do the whole building at once
have a test area treated first.
Ventilation Systems
By the VENT-AXIA Division
Manufacturers Special Products Pty. Ltd.
47 York Street, Sydney. 2 0233
(representatives in all States)
PROFILE
A. J. Liebling: Reporter
You eat tripe , you don’t write it
From MICHAEL DAVIES
Every now and again a magazine is
entitled to praise someone in the
business, and the death of A. J.
Liebling, the American reporter, is such
an occasion. For nearly 30 years, Lieb-
ling was one of the pillars of the “New
Yorker,” and if he was less famous than,
say, Thurber or Harold Ross, he was by
no means a less important reason for
the magazine’s fame.
He did some of his best work as a
critic of newspapers, in the “Wayward
Press” department, and he was about
the only good one there has been. He
took newspapers seriously. He regarded
information as a primary instrument of
liberty, “the one thing most necessary
to our survival as choosers of our own
way.”
He took a very low view of proprie-
tors: there is a note of contempt in his
prose when he writes about Colonel Mc-
Cormick, the Chicago isolationist, or
Henry Luce, the publisher of “Time”
and “Life.” He disapproved, in particu-
lar, of the way rich newspaper proprie-
tors often try to save money by cutting
down on foreign correspondents. He
was against proprietors and he was
against journalistic experts, “who write
what they construe to be the meaning
of what they haven’t seen.”
He was in favor of reporters, who
write what they see, and the status of
reporters, low as it is in the eyes of
proprietors and public alike, would be
still lower but for Liebling, who con-
sidered the health of democracy to de-
pend on a good supply of them. He
never did figure out how to multiply
the reporters while at the same time
abolishing the proprietors.
In a profession without heroes, Lieb-
ling was a hero, though no one would
have dreamed of telling him so. With
one or two others, such as Joseph Mit-
chell, Liebling set a standard of reporting
in the “New Yorker” which brought
it within hailing distance of literature.
In his time, besides newspapers, he
wrote about almost everything: France,
boxing, Second World War, New York
low life, politics. But he usually had a
reason for writing, and he was always
activated by a subterranean sense of
moral purpose. Even when he was writ-
ing about con-men and gamblers, there
was the unspoken assumption that low
life was superior to high life, and that
the patrons of Hymie Katz’s joints were
a lot more respectable than some of the
people you might run into at the Har-
vard Club.
He was not over-tall, but he was cer-
tainly over-weight, with a great belly
that was a memorial to a lifetime of
serious eating, a legacy of unthinkable
quantities of tripe a la mode de Caen
and Massachusetts clams. He believed he
was ugly, with his high bald head and
thick spectacles; but he was, really,
memorable, looking like someone to
reckon with. His voice was a deep
rumble that started its journey some-
where near the tripe, and it was often
hard to know what he was saying.
He paid regular visits to England.
Unlike most other American journalists
who cover England, he viewed local
society from the bottom upwards; it is
doubtful whether he would have ap-
proved of the American television com-
mentator, living in London now, who
affects a butler. His introduction to this
country was originally through the
works of Pierce Egan, the historian of
the old prize ring, and later through
servicemen, when he eventually came
here in person, as a war correspondent.
Wartime pals
TTe saw the country, therefore, without
gloss. In 1959, when he covered the
General Election for the “London
Observer”, he began his inquiries by
setting off for South London, where
some old wartime pals of his lived, and
he learned from them that the rumors
that had reached him on Fifth Avenue
about Britain being in the grip of an
affluent society were over-stated.
In London, he used to stay at a small
hotel off St lames’s Street, but that was
not because he thought it a smart quarter
but because he thought it was raffish.
He believed he could detect, under the
surface, the old tradition of gamblers
and cock-fighting layabouts. He bought
a bowler hat in St lames’s Street, at
Lock’s, and he used to wear it around
New York. He told a friend not long
ago that he must be becoming famous,
because so many New Yorkers stared
after him in the streets.
I told him once I didn’t believe that
his boxing acquaintances really talked
the way he made them talk in his pieces,
so he took me to one of his favorite
places on earth, the Neutral Corner
Saloon. We had scarcely bought a beer
before Liebling negotiated a conversa-
tion with a young man whom he remem-
bered as having fought one bout at
Madison Square Garden, and who then
disappeared. What, Liebling asked, had
happened? “I was in-carcerated,” the
fellow replied.
When Liebling wrote about boxing,
he was consciously working in an Eng-
lish tradition, and some people con-
sidered that at his best he was not far
behind Hazlitt. Like Hazlitt, and unlike
most others who try their hand at low
life, Liebling was indifferent to distinc-
tions of class or culture. He took his
whole personality with him when he
went off to strip-joints or figlits- without
a trace of condescension, and there is
no difference in style between his boxing
pieces and his pieces on, say, the Al-
gerian war. He always took a compre-
hensive view, and nothing pleased him
more than when he could work in a
reference to Ibn Khaldun, the fourteenth-
century Arab philosopher-historian, and
Dr Orlando Miller, the phoney revivalist,
in the same sentence.
He had the same catholic attitude to
human distinction: the greatest men he
had come across in his life, he declared,
were Harold Ross of the “New Yorker,”
Sam Langford, who could make any
opponent lead and then belt him out;
Raymond Weeks, who taught Romance
Philology at Columbia University; and
Max Fischel, who covered New York
Police Headquarters for the “Evening
World”, (ofns.)


m
For you . . .
only the best
Here's the camera that is the ultimate choice
of discriminating professional and enthusiastic
amateur photographers all o.ver the world; the
camera that brings you picture perfection and
personal prestigel
Asahi PEN7AX introduces you to a new world
of photographic delight! A wide choice of
incomparable Takumar lenses and a full range
of accessories puts you in command of every
photographic situation
Asahi PENT AX SP with f/1.8 Takumar
Lens and E.R case , £9O/0/0.
Asahi PENTAX S.I.A. with Auto.
Super Takumar i/2 Lens and E.R. case,
£75/0/0.
Ask to see Asahi PENTAX at YOUR photo
dealer.
C. 957
SCIENCE AND MEDICINE
Word Blindness in
Children
Treating the dyslexic
"jyiAN in isolation is almost as abhorrent
to Nature as a vacuum. Speech was
one of the first means w'hereby this isola-
tion was overcome, and for an unknowm
number of millennia was the omy method
of formal communication. When and
how writing came into oeing is still
wrapped in mystery.
The earliest know'n drawings of ani-
mals and men date back to around
20,000 BC, but these can in no way be
looked upon as a format method of com-
munication. In time, however they be-
came systematised into pictography,
characterised by a series of pictures rep-
resenting a sequence of events. This in
turn w'as followed by ideography in
which the pictures came to represent
ideas. Writing as w'e know it today is
based upon a systematised series of
symbols known as an alphabet, the begin-
nings of which date back to around
1800 BC.
The introduction of an alphabet in-
volved not only a series of symbols (or
letters) but also their mode of presenta-
tion. This was admirably summarised re-
cently in a discussion at the Royal So-
ciety of Medicine by Dr Margaret Rein-
hold: “Early writings varied in spatial
orientation and direction sometimes
flowing from right to left, sometimes
from left to right, sometimes one line
from left to right, the next from right
to left wfith the letters and v/ords in per-
fect mirror reversal. There was (and is)
waiting (Chinese today) which flowed in
a vertical direction. Symbols w'ere drawn
first one w'ay, then later rotated 90
degrees to seem to lie on their backs.”
Over the millennia man’s brain has
come to adjust itself to the full utilisa-
tion of this complicated mechanism of
communication and today, to quote Dr
Reinhold again, we realise that “language
can no longer be regarded as a specific
isolated function. Speech, writing, and
reading may perhaps be described as
various early forms of man’s conscious
and aware organisation and use of sym-
bols.” In other words, our basis of com-
munication, one with the other, is de-
pendent upon a complex co-ordinating
mechanism involving hearing, sight,
speech and the motor system of the
brain.
In these circumstances it is not sur-
prising that the modus operandi breaks
down occasionally. Indeed, the surpris-
ing thing is that it does not break down
more often. Some of these breakdowns
are obvious as in the blind, the deaf,
the dumb, the mentally defective, or the
individual who as a result of a stroke, for
instance, loses his or her ability to speak.
There is, however, another group of
individuals in whom the breakdown is
more obtuse and therefore more likely
to be overlooked. The increasing atten-
tion in recent years to educational prob-
lems has emphasised the importance of
this group because so many of them
are children who are not benefiting as
they should from the educational facili-
ties now available.
The full implication of the problems
raised bv this group cannot be discussed
here, but there is one subdivision of it
which has recently attracted consider-
able attention. This is the group of
children suffering from what for long
has been known as congenital word
blindness, but is now known as specific
developmental dyslexia.
The condition has been Jefined as “a-
congenital difficulty in reading, spelling
and, to a greater or lesser degree, in
right and left orientation, occurring in
children otherwise normal.” An alterna-
tive definition, which is in some ways
complementary, is: “Children who are of
normal or even high intelligence, who
are not fundamentally neurotic, inatten-
tive or lazy, who experience in conspicu-
ous fashion a difficulty in learning the
conventional meaning of printed or writ-
ten symbols and of associating them with
their appropriate acoustic properties.”
The condition is much more common
in males than in females.
The characteristic feature of the con-
dition is that the affected children mis-
take one letter for another because they
fail to recognise letter shapes. Alterna-
tively they have difficult) in reading
letters in the correct order and read back-
wards. Some of them have difficulty in
associating the sound of letters with their
written appearance. There may be any
combination of these, or other disturb-
ances, which results in the most bizarre
effects.
The cause of the condition is still ob-
scure. According to Dr Macdonald
Critchley, “on many grounds it is tempt-
ing to look upon the condition of de-
velopmental dyslexia as being a variety
of maturational lag. . . . The cerebral
activity w'hich is regarded as lagging be-
hind the level of general maturation may
be a specific cognitive act, in which ver-
bal symbols, visual and auditory, fail to
achieve identity”.
Its incidence is as yet equally obscure,
but it has been suggested that perhaps
1 to 2 per cent of boys of school age
are affected. Incidentally, it is of interest
to note that it has been suggested that
Hans Christian Andersen w'as a dyslexic.
Whatever its incidence, the important
practical point is thrk nuch can be done
for it if only it is recognised at a reason-
ably early stage. That such early recogni-
tion should be achieved is increasingly
likely now' that so much attention has
been attracted to its existence.
(“The Times”, London.)


g3®
V . >
m
m
' X
%
mg
mm
; -
m-Wm'.
m
m
mmrnmmm
1
XZ
■
mmm
.
■
Geon
/Hafouads
makes
call
to
a
PERTH
Geon vinyl resins are used by Olympic Cables
in manufacture of coaxial and telephone cables
to specifications of the P.M.G.
Sheathing based on Geon vinyl resin is used in the coaxial communication cables already
laid from Bunbury to Perth, the same type cable that soon can make inter-city telecasts
possible. Here is resistance to weathering and heat, electrical and mechanical
protection in a single homogeneous covering. In manifold electrical installations, Geon
means no more humidity or ageing problems, no more corrosion, provides brightly-
coloured identification coding. In industry, Geon improves products or evolves new
ones. Have you a product we can help improve or develop?
B. F. Goodrich-C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
Kororoit Creek Road, Altona, Melbourne. Telephone 65-8221 or 2. Kalamazoo House, 182-186 Blues Point Road,
North Sydney, N.S.W. Telephone 92-6319. GEON Agencies in W.A., S.A. and Q'ld.— Harrisons & Crosfteld (ANZ) Ltd.
MSS2 SA


A WOMAN
IN GREEN
Short story by M. E. Upward
Fairdale, returning happily from his
office, found that someone had cut
down the choisya, slashed it to the
roots.
Fairdale couldn’t get over it, he ab-
solutely couldn't or not for a minute
or so. Then with a frown and a nod he
recognised the vandalism as another bit
of his wife’s strange perversity. These
days she was always doing one thing or
the other at present it was “the
other,” rooting out or pulling down
something she’d previously planned or
hankered to achieve.
The choisya, for instance, had been
planted just there to “soften” the front
of the house which once she’d pro-
claimed “too hideous for words.” Fully
grown, of course it was doomed. Splin-
tered boughs stuck up from the ground
like so many broken bones. Fairdale
could scarcely have been more shocked
by the sight of his wife’s mangled body.
But Mrs Fairdale, five-foot three, with
arms like willow-wands, came out and
stood by his side with a satisfied glow
on her face. “It’s the best I could do,”
she said. “You’ll have to get out the
roots, it’s much too heavy for me.”
Fairdale was silent but, as this was
his habit, Mrs Fairdale rattled on: “Oh,
that blessed old thing, it was covered
with white wax scale. It was put in the
wrong place there. Mr Scrubb at the
nursery says they need more sun, they
don’t like humidity either. Just look at
that post, it’s positively green with
mould!”
Fairdale looked at the post. Now he
would be supposed to repaint it; most
likely replace it if it proved to be
rotten.
Mrs Fairdale had not lived with this
man for 32 years without learning to
read his nostrils. She went inside, put
the whisky, the soda syphon, and a gen-
erous glass on the low table near his
chair and set about cooking the dinner.
Fairdale always rose early of a morn-
ing. He liked plenty of time to potter,
communing with his garden and his
thoughts, to ready himself for departure
for the office which was becoming
that is, his real estate activities in-
creasingly a bore.
He went straight outside and lifted
his long, large-nostrilled nose to the
sharp air. A tinted sky diffused a lemony
light, the grass smelt damply sweet, and
dahlias W’ere coming into bloom.
He continued along the path to what
his wife, with her old facetiousness, had
named his “pottering” shed. Seriously
decayed and invaded by rampant vine,
the trellised outhouse stored garden fur-
niture, hoses, tools, and was open on
two sides.
Fairdale settled himself in a chair
and reached blindly into a box of daf-
fodil bulbs. He fished out a bottle of
Scotch and slowly drew' the cork. He
took little sips from the bottle while,
with the other hand, he fed the persis-
tent tits and himself munched the crust
of the bread.
He looked for the Institute cat which
had been missing for four or five days.
His w'ife, no doubt, had frightened it
away. Fairdale habitually gave the beast
its morning meal and valued the inti-
macy, spurious though it might be, as
a routine part of his day.
But the cat was not to be seen. In-
stead, on the vacant allotment next door,
his eyes caught a flash of green.
A woman dressed in this color, a
sizzling, chemical green, sat astride a
fallen tree massaging her stockinged feet.
Her narrow skirt revealed thick ankles
and solid calves merging into really mas-
sive thighs. She had a voluptuous bosom
and a pale, foreign, nut-cracker face
which had suffered some disaster. Could
it be a hare-lip, or simply the loss of
her teeth? From a distance of 30 yards
it was difficult to say.
But Fairdale could see and appreciate
the glory of her hair. Brilliantly gold,
it was dressed in a high pompadour
with long locks escaping about her
shoulders and down her back. Fairdale
was not so ingenuous as not to know
that this bedroom effect w'as contrived.
He supposed it was meant to excite and,
to some men, it might be exciting.
In his day women had neat heads,
boyishly bobbed or shingled, and their
figures were fiat as fish. That, too, must
have been exciting then, or there would
have been no marriages, no babies.
Fairdale grinned and returned his
thoughts to the garden.
He looked about vainly for an open
sunlit space wherein, conceivably, he
might try transplanting the choisya. But
trees and shrubs planted haphazardly
by his wife many years ago had grown
immensely big. Once, if he chose to
remember, he had remonstrated with
her over this certain event. That tree
would ruin the drains, this one shut out
the light, leaves would clog up the gut-
ters, the wistaria pull down the shed.
He then newly a property owner and
agonised over the cost.
But now it was quite another thing.
Now he treasured beyond all he pos-
sessed this wilderness of tree and shrub,
so different from others’ shaved lawns
and combed flower-beds, so unique, so
essentially his own. It was his wife who
complained. Mrs Fairdale who, secateurs
in hand, pruned and pruned and ever-
lastingly clipped; or aimed her spray-
gun at butterflies and bugs.
“Funny, how anti-nature she is.”
He, on the other hand, became more
pro-nature every day.
He felt his (he did not like the
word “soul,”) he felt something,
some blossoming within, roughly in the
region where he used to feel fear. This
sensitive thing, delicate, perceptive, was
a kind of intuitive eye through which
he could glimpse (not very often, just
sometimes, and very briefly), the wisdom
and beauty of nature.
Suddenly it struck him how lucky he
was to be over all that; meaning, the
race to be run, the nervous doubts about
winning. All that was finished and done
with and how very thankful he was!
It was like getting your second wind.
A pity he couldn't communicate
something of this to his wife. They were
attached, of course, like the wistaria


0T.22D
: WORLD MARKETS
ARE NEAR AND CLEAR
BY OVERSEAS
fc, TELEPHONE -
f j st.
Reach important overseas markets fast—in the easiest
and most convenient way—Overseas Telephone!
Enjoy local exchange clarity and much faster connection
by using the new coaxial Commonwealth Pacific Cable
{COMPAQ to New Zealand, Fiji, Britain, Europe and
North America. Overseas calls are reasonably priced,
too—a three-minute call to New Zealand is only 37/6;
to London, 75/- (minimum rate).
THE OVERSEAS
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
COMMISSION (AUSTRALIA)
Australia's Overseas Cable and
Radio Services
O.T.C. HOUSE, 12 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY. 2 0544
382-384 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE. 60 0351
and the shed And likewise mutely pur-
suing their differing purposes ... It
would take a family crisis, or at least
a good many drinks, to enable them to
talk.
Mrs Fairdale had been a sporty, tom-
boyish girl, full of tricks and a tease,
a demure but ardent lover and, later,
a warm, rather slapdash mother, not
fussy in the house.
Puppies wetted the carpets to cries
of indignation and laughter. His indig-
nation, her laughter. Covers were worn
off couches by children’s boots, logs
thrown on fires in alarming showers of
sparks, rugs kicked back while she
taught the boys to charleston. And how
she would sit there, among the mess
of a meal, dashing off endless letters to
the papers (which of course she never
posted), signing herself “Indignant
Mother”!
All this had often irritated Fairdale,
the provider. But now that the boys
were gone from home (both married
and living their hectic, self-sufficient
lives in far-off places), he would have
liked a dog about the house for com-
pany. But they were “too much of a
tie,” Mrs Fairdale said. They now had
a gas fire in place of the burning logs
which were “too messy,” Mrs Fairdale
said. They ate a lot of semi-processed
and snap-frozen food which Mrs Fair-
dale favored because it “saved so much
time and trouble.”
Fairdale, taking thoughtful sips from
the bottle, shrugged off his wife’s in-
transigence. The woman in green, he
observed, was no longer alone.
A man but he seemed a mere
boy! now sat on the fallen tree.
She stood before him, leaning back on
her heels, arms folded under the promin-
ent bosom. The boy wore black trousers
and a nicely laundered white shirt, but-
toned at the wrists. A pale face, slack-
featured, protruding ears, and dark hair
combed in a fringe on his brow, pro-
duced a moronic appearance. His thin
body slumped in a tired curve and his
arms hung limp by his sides. He looked
as though he had just come from some
unhealthy night-time job.
The woman was full of vigor. She
jiggled and bounced on her stockinged
feet and, suddenly swinging away,
pranced off, wheeled, and ambled back.
She had the strutting aimless gait of a
flirtatious hen.
Fairdale leaned forward, elbows on
knees. His face took on an absorbed,
quizzical, bird-watching look.
The woman loomed over the boy,
swaying from side to side as she rested
her weight on one foot, then the other.
Suddenly she bent, seized his face in
her hands, looked deeply into it, and
burst into foolish laughter.
The boy stared vacantly ahead.
She reached into a pocket and took
out a comb. She combed his hair, gently
stroking the fringe. She tilted her head
about in an exaggerated way, seeking
the effect.
The boy’s face drooped mournfully.
But the woman in green was clearly
ecstatically happy. She knew not how
to contain, to express, her joy.
Now she leant over the boy, tumbling
her hair in his face. She took one golden
strand and wound it about his head.
She laughed affectedly.
The boy sat utterly still, registering
nothing.
Taking the boy’s head again between
her hands, she pressed it to her breast.
The boy’s head lolled, spineless as a
baby’s. Holding it firm, she knelt. She
lifted one dangling arm and wrapped
it like a scarf about her neck.
The boy made no discernible effort,
but neither did he resist.
She lifted his other arm and placed it
over her shoulder. The huddled figures
at once took on the semblance of
sculpture.


i|| :
9 ■
4 >
'■■■l
t- • ■ S» ■■■*: ■ -
, * ~'r
A
IS
■
■ ; \* W
. ■ 1 ■ I
" s
W
* »>
V.. 1
■ fi,
\
J
■
>
. •
m
: S"
'(S? if* l -™ ' ■
■
£ :•. ft:
si
SSPiiisi
«
** ''V !' '
'
mmm.
;
:rfilll^lllli|
,1
mm
■■ • :•::
■
.■ : ' ■ ' ■ ' ■■■■ :' . ■
■ .
I
"-■■■ :. ■ ' , : ' ■ 'I ■'
| s ; r .s „
$ J ,;• :• g v ; tf«W &* * ' gM
■" ■ ' IW: ... _
■ i:il
.i ' ”
■ , ■■ '
1 m s
■; ; . ; : V |
's if mvFrf
>s :
mm
mourn
i I .V. ' 1
m
s I ! I ->\
mm
ms
, %
, ISIS
Easy does it !
Not all earthmoving is brute shoving. Many an operator can handle a bulldozer as if he held
the blade in his hand. He virtually does, with modern equipment speeding the
work of shaping new facilities. Ease of operation is just one reason why contractors
worldwide can rely on John Deere Industrial Equipment. By providing quality equipment
and always dealing on a basis of mutual advantage, John Deere aims to serve as a
continuing partner in progress.
JOHN DEERE AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INC. IN N.S.W.) BOX 4284, G,P.0,, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA
Distributors N.S.W.: W. & J. Farm Equipment Pty. Ltd., Mitchell Rd. & Coulson St., Alexandria. (P.O. Box 83, Alexandria) Phone:
516631. Vic.: John Deere Australia Pty. Ltd., 300 Ballarat Road, Braybrook. Phone: 311-0449, 311-0440. Q’ld.: Deering Machinery Pty.
Ltd., Hastings Park, Kerry Road, Archerfield. Phone: 47 1701-2-3. S.A.: Tractors (S.A.) Ltd., 696 Port Road, Beverley. Phone: 45 1732.
W.A.: Wigmores Machinery Pty. Ltd., Cnr. Great Eastern Highway & Koojan Ave., South Guildford. (Box 8.83, G.P.0.) Phone: 651721.
Tas.: Cameron & Sutherland (Sales) Pty. Ltd. 6 Collins Street, Hobart. Phone: 2 3041 (Box 867 J, G.P.0.) Branch at Cameron &
Sutherland (Sales) Pty. Lid., 330-336 Invermay Road, Launceston. Phone: 6 0251. N.T.: Hastings Deering (N.T.) Pty. Ltd., Stuart
Highway, Darwin. Phone: 2301. N.G.: Hastings Deering (New Guinea) Pty. Ltd., Port Moresby, Papua. Phone: 4328. N.G.: Hastings
Deering (New Guinea) Pty. Ltd. Lae. (P.O. Box 61) Phone: 2487 N.Z.: Gough, Gough & Hamer Ltd., 145 Cashel Street, Christchurch.
(P.O. Box 634) Phone: 60 989.
rm
WORLD-WIDE


Everywhere goods and services are on the move ... movement
and progress financed byASL. This Australia-wide organisation
is active in every field of finance; commercial development,
hire purchase, leasing, real estate. There’s an ASL man fully
qualified to assist and advise you on every financial need. Fast*'
fair, friendly! That’s ASL finance.
Sydney, 25 5281; Brisbane, 21991; Melbourne, 67 6551?
Adelaide, 87183; Hobart, 22426.
KEEP HN
ilkki %# 1 m
THE MOV
WITH
ASL
FINANCE
t
l
r
#
Hi*
FINANCING INDUSTRY AND TRANSPORTATION SINCE 1926
e-oronsv
A faint “good God!” came from the
Fairdale shed.
The performance had naturally taken
much longer to enact than it takes to
describe a great deal longer than
all Fairdale’s philosophic meanderings.
But Fairdale, a yawner at ballet, was
engrossed by this obvious mime. His
response, though, was ambiguous: Mas-
culine indignation at the praying mantis
technique vied with awe at the powers
of nature.
Hurriedly, he replanted the Scotch
well down among the bulbs. The whisky
lay rather acidly in his chest. He could
feel the beginnings of cramp. He rose
and limped back to the house.
He entered the kitchen and switched
on the jug. It was seven o’clock, just
right.
When he came with the teatray into
Mrs Fairdale’s room she was lying on
her side looking into the light which
filtered under the blind. She sat up at
once and reached for a cigarette. She
had lately taken to smoking.
“What’s it going to be like?” she
asked.
“Oh fine, fine. A lovely day.”
Fairdale put the tray on the table.
He raised the blinds and drew the cur-
tains to let in the slanting sun. Next,
he picked up the pillows his wife al-
ways pushed to the floor when she
finished reading at night, and handed
them one by one. He passed his wife
her shawl.
She put on her shawl and sat up very
straight. Her face in the morning light
was rather sallow, rather considerably
worn. She wore her mouse-grey hair
still in the same style as when it was
richly auburn, semi-shingled and water-
waved. It still had its natural curl.
“Don’t expect me home on time to-
night,” she said. “I’m playing in tour-
nament.”
Lips forming a genial answer, Fair-
dale forgot what she had said and
what he had meant to reply.
The thought sprang at him, like some-
thing out of the dark, and immediately
changed to conviction: His wife was
bored and lonely, not inconceivably, sad.
Quickly, he bent and kissed her full
on the lips.
Mrs Fairdale’s astonished eyes filled
with slow tears and she turned her head
away.
For it was a firm and passionless,
lingering, oldtime, husbandly kiss, say-
ing or asking something for which
there were no words.
In justice it must be recorded he did
struggle to find the words. But instinct
warned him in time against their ut-
terance.
Would he dare voice the vast com-
passion he felt? For his wife ... or a
woman in green.


i
I «s
*
• v
<r
SS:
>HBfti
*
W&m g <. : -^-v
.<< -•; f ...|,
*> v
%
a**!?
«
:
Rubber lined Dorr Vets, each 35 ft. diameter,
during construction of Leporte Plant at Bunbury.
Laporte...
where rubber
and chemicals
get together
Yet another mighty industry opens up in Western Australia. At Bunbury stands
the huge Laporte chemical plant, built to manufacture Titanium Oxide. In this
chemical process the protection requirements to various surfaces were
enormous. Under sub-contract from Bechtel Pacific Corporation Limited,
Dunlop was awarded the job of supplying the protective rubber linings . . .
over 80,000 lbs. of rubber... the biggest contract of its kind ever to be
awarded to a single company in Australia. Whatever needed protection
.. . metal, wood, brick or concrete against acids, abrasives, fumes, oils,
alkalis, solvents or gases . . . Dunlop had the answer. Other rubber com-
ponents supplied by Dunlop ranged from suction and delivery hoses,
conveyor belting, to gaskets and many types of mouldings. Whatever the
type of work, whatever the requirements . . . Dunlop products always do the job any job
they’re designed for.
4SW
the more you use rubber, the more you need
PRODUCTS DIVISION


OVERSEAS
The Five Red Fingers of China
Reaching for the Himalayan States
By GEORGE PATTERSON
From 1958 to 1961 the Chinese claim,
stated emphatically and at length
over the Peking and Lhasa radio
systems, was that Ladakh, Nepal, Sikkim,
Bhutan and the North-east Frontier
Agency were “the fingers of the hand of
China.”
But at that time the Chinese hector-
ing attitude to these Himalayan terri-
tories was illustrated by another sig-
nificant metaphor: that the then political
situation obtaining made them “lice in
the clothing of China,” but they were
soon due to be “rid of these dirty im-
perialist and reactionary elements” and
returned to the great motherland of
China, properly cleansed. Since then
there have been a number of develop-
ments which have caused the Chinese
leaders to alter their language at least,
and, to some extent, their tactics if not
their intentions.
The greatest of these developments,
of course, were the revolt in Tibet, the
1960-61 Chinese border “incursions”
which took 50,000 square miles of In-
dian territory, and the October, 1962,
invasion of NEFA. These three events
have resulted in an agonising reappraisal
of, policies not only in India but also in
the Himalayan territories most directly
concerned. It is generally accepted that
India’s relations with China can never
be the same again, but what is often
overlooked is that an agonising re-
appraisal has also been forced on the
people of the Himalayan border states
and that their relations with both the
neighboring major powers can never be
the same again, either.
Little time need be spent on the prob-
lem of Ladakh. What the Chinese have
there they hold, and they are unlikely to
let go short of a major war in Asia,
of course. The suggestion made in some
circles that the Chinese invasion of
NEFA was in order to trade this terri-
tory for the Aksai Chin in Ladakh is
based on a complete misunderstanding of
the Chinese situation in Tibet and a com-
plete misinterpretation of Chinese strat-
egy in the Himalayan regions. The
NEFA incident was a clever, off-the-cuff
Chinese exploitation of a political and
military miscalculation by India; and the
subsequent withdrawal a subtle political
manoeuvre in China’s chessboard battle
with India for control of the Himalayas,
the significance of which will be ex-
plained later.
Tf Ladakh is the little finger by China’s
A reckoning, both in position and rela-
tive importance, then Nepal is the fourth
finger. This might seem surprising in
view of Nepal’s eight million population,
international importance and present
position of influence in the Himalayas.
But, strictly speaking, while Nepal is
useful to China, it is not necessary in any
of China’s larger ambitions in Asia.
Certainly, Mao Tse-tung has gone on
record as saying that Nepal must return
to China as part of her former territories
annexed by the imperialists; and he has
also said that Nepal and China must
work together to liberate their “oppressed
brothers in India”. But in China’s long-
term plan it is Sikkim, the middle finger,
and NEFA, the thumb, which will play
the key pressure parts in China’s larger
ambitions in these areas.
In the meantime China is having re-
markable political success with her
present policies and can afford to wait
for Nepal to fall further under her
influence. From 1956, when the first
treaty was signed permitting exchange
of diplomatic representatives and an
offer of six crores (£5,000,000) in aid,
China has steadily extended her influence
in the country. Since then China’s
economic stake has been extended to
23 crores, plus the carry-over, building
a vitally strategic road from Lhasa to
Khatmandu, and a possible network of
roads in an area to the north and east
that is also of active interest to the Nepal
Communist Party. The Nepal Com-
munist Party has only about 10,000
members, but it is closely knit and well-
organised. This was proved when, at
the time of the King’s takeover in 1960,
all the top political leaders of all the
other parties were arrested and im-
prisoned, and the police were only able
to arrest three of the 17 Politburo mem-
bers. Further, Nepal’s Communist
leaders remained in the country and
did not go over to India as did several
of the other political escapees.
Nepal’s sensitivity to Indian interest
in her internal affairs is very acute. Even
friendly statements by Mr Nehru such as
his promise of military aid in the event
of an attack on Nepal from the “out-
side”, or his mild rebuke at the time of
the King’s takeover, evoked a storm of
protest inside Nepal. One very interest-


<jjjMEs>
... when you need an inventive approach to concrete or steel engineering.
humes
thought of
an easier way...
Bending steel is hard work. Our friend in
the picture is making very little impression
on comparatively light-gauge steel. We doubt
if he’ll ever bend it into the shape of a pipe.
Yet, Humes machines make perfectly round
pipes from heavy steel up to li" thick, in
lengths up to 40 feet. The process illustrated
was introduced in 1927, as was the continuous
welding process which joins seams of the pipe.
Today, Humes Steel Division applies an
inventive approach to all types of steel projects:
pipes from 4" to 228" diameter and all
types of steel fabrication. Recently
Humes won a f A 2.2 million contract for the
construction and installation of the Murray 1
penstocks in the Snowy Mountains
Hydro-Electric scheme. This is the largest steel
pipe contract ever let to an Australian Company.
MASTERS IN CONCRETE sc STEEL
Head Office: Hume House, 185 William St., Melbourne . 67 8101 .
Offices and factories in all states.
Today Humes Limited is a group of companies with
vast resources of skill and knowledge in many fields
of engineering and fabrication: steel pipes, fabricated
steel products, concrete pipes and all types of pre-
stressed and precast concrete products.
MX.44*O
-
■
.


ing outcome following on the latter state-
ment was the Press reaction in Khat-
mandu at the time.
The four Khatmandu newspapers all
warned Sikkim and Bhutan of “Indian
designs”, asked them to free themselves
from Indian interference and called for
a federation of Nepal, Sikkim and
Bhutan with Nepal taking the lead.
This was the first public indication of a
Chinese proposal which had been locally
canvassed for some time, and it was
doubly interesting in view of the fact
that it emanated from the King-con-
trolled Press. At that time neither
Sikkim nor Bhutan responded, primarily
because they feared the domination of
Nepal in such a proposed federation.
However, it has remained a persistent
talking-point and 1
will return to its
importance later.
Meanwhile, Presi-
dent Radhakrish-
nan’s visit to Nepal,
closely following
upon King Mahen-
dra's to India, is a
sign of warmer re-
lations. Although
Nepal has settled
her outstanding
border dispute with
China, the northern
frontier remains a
highly explosive area
since there were a
reputed 10-20,000
Tibetans there up
until a few months
ago, using Nepal as
a base from which
to harass the Chinese
occupation forces.
Sikkim, the middle finger, to change
the metaphor, was formerly described
as a “dagger pointed at the heart of
India” by the British Political Officer.
Modem military strategists in the Indian
Army agree with this and calculate that
in the event of a major Chinese assault
on India it would be down the Teesta
Valley from Sikkim to strike at the in-
dustrial heartland of Bengal and Bihar,
and the port of Calcutta, only 400 miles
away. Sikkim itself is only 18,000
square miles in area, with a population
of 165,000, three-quarters of whom are
Nepali extraction. This mixture of
population, the heavy Indian personnel
commitment, and the proximity of the
Chinese Army less than 50 miles from
the capital, has created tensions in this
tiny border State which might well
explode in some major crisis. Since the
Sino-Indian clash in 1962 China has
ominously protested several times about
the movement of Indian troops on
Sikkim’s northern and-eastern borders.
But it is Bhutan, the first finger, that
could possibly pull the trigger on a first
Sino-Indian war. The most feasible ex-
planation for the Chinese withdrawal
from NEFA lies in China’s confidence,
oft-declared, that politically her claims
to Bhutan are much stronger even than
in NEFA, and, militarily, the occupation
of Bhutan presents fewer problems.
Further, by occupying Bhutan China
will not only dominate NEFA anyway,
but also the whole of Assam, and even
have a stranglehold on the economy of
India by controlling the trade of tea, oil
and jute from Assam. The only links
between India and Assam are one road
and one railway which run through a
narrow 30-mile wide corridor between
West Bhutan and East Pakistan. Such a
move would also give Sikkim to China,
and bring her into direct contact with
the pro-Chinese wing of the Indian
Communist Party and in a position to
help create and supply a “Yenan-type”
revolutionary Communist Party in
India which she has always favored.
Meantime, in Bhutan, Chinese agents
move about disguised as Tibetan refu-
gees, creating unrest among the popula-
tion against the present regime of the
Maharajah and Prime Minister with
their pro-Indian policies but which they
say did not produce military aid at the
time of the dangerously close border war
last year.
This move forward from a tentative
proposal of federation of a few to a con-
federation of several Himalayan States
could have repercussions possibly not
expected by the Chinese. When China
first put forward the “Confederation”
suggestion just over a year ago, as an
advance on the federation mentioned
earlier, it evoked a favorable reaction
in Nepal and a mixed reaction in Sikkim
and Bhutan from different parties and
communities. Since then the idea has
taken a new turn because of two un-
expected developments; one is the
response of the Nagas and the Tibetans,
and the other the possibility that Russia
might be interested in sponsoring such
a Confederation. The former develop-
ment, it is argued, would make it possible
for both the Chinese and Indian armies
to withdraw beyond the boundaries of
the proposed Confederation, so allowing
the Dalai Lama to return and thus
making Tibet a counterweight to the
influence of Nepal. The second de-
velopment—which is founded on hints
in at least three of the countries con-
cerned that Russia has been making
soundings, and has been suggested as
the reason for the Nepalese Foreign
Minister’s recent
sudden visit t o
Russia —would cer-
tainly give the Con-
federation a greater
chance of success,
and, of course,
would be in Russia’s
interests in Asia.
Tndia, by an im-
A aginative use of
the Confederation
concept, could begin
to build a viable
buffer unit of friend-
ly States on her
strategic northern
border, and rebuild
the prestige she has
lost in these terri-
tories over the past
10 years. In addition,
she would be re-
lieved of the em-
barrassing commitment of having to
supply troops for the defence of
Sikkim, Bhutan, NEFA and Nagaland
while knowing that these territories are
militarily indefensible anyway in the
event of a major conflict.
But how is China likely to view this
surprising turn of events? Strangely
enough, it might well be in her interests,
too —from a temporary point of view.
Her occupation army in Tibet is in a
vulnerable position in the event of a war
with India, especially if India gives
military aid to the many thousands of
Tibetan guerrillas still in the mountains
of south and east Tibet; and, in any case,
China always has the better alternative
of a route across North Burma. The
return of the Dalai Lama would give her
a much needed boost in prestige in Asia
at the present time, and perhaps lessen
opposition to her entry into the United
Nations. In short, the acceptance of the
Confederation concept could relax the
fingers of the hand of China at present
dangerously curved on a rifle barrel.


Around Melbourne
USED CARS AND GORGEOUS CAPES
11/lelbourne always has been a good
used car town. Many of our most
fascinating characters are used car
men. At the moment our biggest indi-
vidual dealer is Mr Kevin Dennis.
He works on the old “face” principle.
That is, the more often your face
appears in public then the more the
public is likely to love and trust you.
So there are countless pictures of
the round - faced bespectacled Mr
Dennis in all the newspapers, singing
commercials about his munificence
are chanted over the radio, and he
personally sells his motor cars on
TV.
Then, of course, there’s the Reno-
Las Vegas-Astor used car group,
which is very big. Frankly, I always
like the crisp Reno slogan divorce
your car at Reno.
Then there’s Chadstone Charlie.
He’s quite a character. He specialises
in £5O bombs and legend has it that
he divides used car buyers into two
categories. The first group comes into
the yard and says “Quack.” The
second comes in and says: “Quack-
Quack.”
However, if you want to see car
dealers en masse then the best thing
to do is to visit the motor car auc-
tions up at the north end of the
city. Many of the dealers get 50 per
cent or more of their stock from the
auction. Some days when they are
bored they have a little game. They
bet on what the next car will fetch..
They put down their quids or tenners
depending on the pressure of the
credit squeeze. One says: “Not bad.
I reckon it’ll get £550.” “Nah, it’s
a bomb £400,” says another, and
so it goes.
Actually all this waffling is just to
take you gently by the hand to the
news that Emmanuel is back. Em-
manuel Margolin was the star of
these auctions. He used to wear a hat
sporting an ostrich feather and, sup-
erbly tailored with the right cuff links,
he would parade up and down bid-
ding like crazy. Back in his heyday
he had eight used car lots, an annual
turnover of nigh on £4 million with a
sale of 250 cars a week. Up at the
motor registration branch there was a
team which did nothing else but
handle the registrations of Emmanuel
cars. It was he who launched the
personality cult and we can remember
one day in 1960 when he had 360
pictures of himself on one full page
ad. in “The Age.”
In 1961 he had an urge to get
away from this cachet of the used
car dealer. So he bought control of
Apex Motors, the oldest Ford dealers
in Melbourne. This happened at the
worst possible time. He got caught up
by the credit squeeze, he had 300
used cars on his hands and he had
real trouble.
He had to sell all his property
to pay his debts. For example there
was the £20,000 auction of his per-
sonal effects at 60 Hopetoun Road,
Toorak.
As everything went out the door
Emmanuel was as Gallic and as
charming as ever. He said beaming
happily: “I will return to France and
I will have it all back in five years.”
VIfELL, bless my soul, less than 12
months have passed and Emman-
uel is making considerable progress al-
ready. He has opened two used car
lots one at Moonee Ponds and he
has bought Mainon’s yard at White-
horse Road, Balwyn. Here he has
gone straight into enemy territory.
He is just across the road, virtually
bumper to bumper, from Kevin Den-
nis.
The lovely house in Hopetoun
Road was sold, but now he is renting
a splendid place, almost as fine, at
63 St George’s Road, virtually within
borrowing distance of the Harold
Holts. There’s a gently ironic twist
to this. When Emmanuel moved in
to Apex Motors relations were rather
awkward with the Ford Company. At
a final shareholders’ meeting Em-
manuel said the whole trouble was
that he had tried to turn respectable.
This was a big mistake.
You could make more money by
selling one used car than you could
by selling four new Fords. Guess
who was the previous occupant of
63 St George’s Road? Mr John
Mclntyre, the former Managing Di-
rector of Ford Australia, who has
since returned to Canada But one
is told that 63 is now furnished dif-
ferently. Indeed the furniture is rather
better than that at Hopetoun Road.
Emmanuel has brought back a load
of antiques from Paris; the piece de
resistance is a Louis XIV gilt suite
which was once owned by Marie
Antoinette.
Emmanuel’s great passion is for
bull-fighting. At the Hopetoun Road
auction he put on sale his matador
gear which cost him £lOOO Well, he
has a complete new set of banderillas,
killing swords, ceremonial capes,
fighting capes, killing capes, and you
should see the ceremonial cape. This
is an exquisite thing.
It is white satin and gold and it
once belonged to a famous Madrid
matador. On the back is embroidered
a gorgeous weeping madonna and
Emmanuel says it took three women
six months to do this alone. Then he
has a matador’s suit, made-to-meas-
ure, also in white satin and gold.
Why has he come back? He says
that Australia is the easiest place in
the world to make money. In Europe
you haven't a chance unless you have
at least £300,000 to kick off. So now
he has come back to Melbourne with
the financial backing of friends in
Paris. His dream is to open a great
do-it-yourself car lot of, say, four
acres. He has seen this done in Paris
and in Auckland. For £2 10s., the
cost of the advertising, the owners
would bring their cars to the lot and
actually sell the cars themselves to
prospective buyers. Hire Purchase
firms would be there to handle the
finance, automobile club representa-
tives would be available to check the
cars and the dealer would do nothing
but accept a commission from each
sale.
As Emmanuel says, the beauty of
this is that you could do it on Sun-
days. “Surely there’s no law against a
man selling his own car on a Sun-
day.”
BATMAN


FORUM
The Killer’s Victim
Yet another lesson from New Zealand
By GORDON HAWKINS
(Criminologist, University of Sydney)
Some 'years ago when my interest in
criminals was less academic than it
is today I had in my charge, for a
period, a youth who enjoyed the dis-
tinction of having been described by the
Lord Chief Justice of England at the
Old Bailey as “one of the most dangerous
young criminals who has ever stood in
that dock”. The young criminal in
question, who was sixteen years old,
had, together with an accomplice, been
found guilty of the murder of an un-
armed police constable. He had shot the
victim between the eyes with a .45 Colt
revolver at a range of approximately ten
yards. One feature of the case to which
the Lord Chief Justice made reference
in passing sentence was that the young
man had “murdered a policeman with-
out thought of his wife, his family or
himself” and never once expressed any
concern for the victims of his crime.
This apparent remorselessness was
certainly not an endearing characteristic,
yet indifference to the fate of the victims
of the crime was by no means confined
to the criminal. The case aroused wide-
spread public interest. Although English
law does not allow a capital sentence
to be passed on a boy of sixteen, the
accomplice who was nineteen years old
was, as the principal in the second degree,
also convicted of murder and in his case
sentenced to death. Now in regard to
his fate a considerable public outcry
arose. Public meetings were held;
petitions were organised; a deputation
met the Home Secretary; an attempt was
made on the eve of execution to move
the Adjournment of the House of
Commons; and on the morning of the
execution a noisy demonstration of some
500 people gathered outside the gaol
and even attempted to force an entrance.
Yet in all the acres of newsprint
devoted to the case I saw no reference
to the fate of the dead man’s widow and
children; no expressions of concern at
the pitiful inadequacy of the provisions
made for those who were the principal
sufferers in the affair. There were no
demonstrations, no petitions.
I was reminded of all this the other
day by the New Zealand Government’s
Criminal Injuries Compensation Bill de-
signed to provide for the victims of
violent crime and their dependants,
which came into effect on January 1.
The American criminologist Negley
Teeters pointed out some years ago that
“Our barbarian ancestors were wiser and
more just than we are today for they
adopted the theory of restitution to the
injured whereas we have abandoned this
practice to the detriment of all con-
cerned.” The truth is that restitution to
victims of crime is one of the most
ancient of all penological principles.
Amongst primitive peoples and in the
early history of most races restitution or
reparation in some form was often the
only element of punishment. Some of
the earliest codified laws, like the Code
of Hammurabi (about 2000 BC), are
largely devoted to complicated systems
.regulating the amounts of damages due
to injured parties. During the Middle
Ages, however, the injured person’s right
to restitution or compensation appears to
have grown less and less and the victim
became the Cinderella of the criminal
law. Where compensation was paid the
king or feudal overlord took the entire
payment and the victim was practically
ignored. Moreover, as the offender
commonly not only forfeited his property
but also went to the stake, the gibbet
or the dungeon, the victim lost all hope
of effective remedy.
is a certain irony about the fact
A that the growth of compassionate
interest in the sufferings of offenders
under nineteenth-century penal regimes
was not accompanied by any concern
for those injured by criminals. In fact
as Dr Stephen Schafer, whose Restitu-
tion to Victims of Crime (1960) is the
only full treatment of the subject, says,
“History suggests that growing interest
in the reformation of the criminal is
matched by decreasing care for the
victim”. Adolph Prins, a Belgian prison
administrator, observed sardonically just
on seventy years ago: “The guilty man
lodged, fed, clothed, warmed, lighted,
and entertained at the expense of the
State in a model cell, issued from it with
a sum of money lawfully earned, has
paid his debt to society: he can set his
victims at defiance. But the victim has
his consolation: he can think that by the
taxes he pays to the Treasury, he has
contributed toward the paternal care
which has guarded the criminal during
his stay in prison”.
Today in fact the victim of crime is
almost everywhere in the world in a
hopeless position. In primitive society
he could at least seek his own satisfaction
against those who caused him harm and
attempt to obtain redress by direct
action; but today he is forbidden to do
so by law. With few exceptions the
criminal law is not concerned with any
damage the victim may have suffered
through the commission of crime and
the interests of the victim play no part
in the procedure at all.
Thus in Australia, under the Common-
wealth criminal law, although there is
provision for reparation to the Common-
wealth in respect of any loss suffered,
restitution to an individual victim bears
an entirely civil character. In Queens-
land the general principle applicable is
that the criminal jurisdiction is not to
be used for the purpose of securing re-
compense to an individual who has been
injured by a criminal. There are a few
minor exceptions to this principle but
in the main the victim, who can bring
a civil suit for damages, must rely on
his civil rights alone.
Yet even on occasions where awards
are made which take sufficient account
of the injury or damage caused to the
victim by an offence, their execution is
usually very difficult. Offenders are
rarely in a position to make more than
token payments. Nor do the imprisoned
offender’s earnings in prison offer any
solution; and moreover in many States
(e.g., Western Australia and Victoria)
neither the victim nor his dependants
can have recourse to the prisoner’s earn-
ings, for execution cannot be levied
against them. In practice the lack of
means of the average criminal (or some-
times his hiding or transfer of property
before attachment) means that the in-
jured party rarely succeeds in recovering
damages. Not many years ago in the
United Kingdom a man blinded by two
assailants sought satisfaction by civil pro-
cedure and was awarded £11,500 dam-
ages. The offenders who were serving
long prison sentences were ordered to
pay him five shillings each weekly. One
commentator observed drily at the time,
“The victim will need to live 442 years
to collect the last instalment.” It is not
surprising that most victims realising
that any award is likely to be worthless
to them are unwilling pointlessly to un-
dergo all the cost and hardship of the
civil process.
The New Zealand legislation there-
fore, although it certainly constitutes a
significant advance, can also be seen as
reversing an historical trend and repair-


%
k
x -:.
A real live ANGEL
m
In a wonderful world of tending and caring, our lovely
nurses are indeed real live angels. And every nurse you'il
ever see always looks fresh, crisp, and neat as a pin thanks
to Cesarine. Used almost exclusively by every leading Hospital
in Australia, Cesarine is proud of its wonderful record of
service. Hospital uniforms take really hard wear they're
laundered frequently severely. Thanks to Cesarine, they
always look smart, stylish, fresh and crisp. Make Cesarine your
first choice for uniforms.
CAESAR FABRICS LTD. — Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Launceston
. . . SERVING AUSTRALIA UNIFORMLY
- CPB3I
■k
mg centuries of neglect shown by the
law for the interests of the victim. The
Bill, passed last month in Wellington,
provides for a Crimes Compensation Tri-
bunal which will have discretion to
award compensation for pecuniary loss
suffered or expenses incurred, or pain
and suffering on the part of the victim
of criminal injury; and where the death
of the victim has resulted, compensation
will be paid to the dependants. The scale
of payments under the law are roughly
the same as for workers’ compensation.
By way of example, a victim incapaci-
tated for work can get £lO ss. a week
plus £1 a week for a wife and 10s. for
each dependent child, for up to six years,
A murder victim’s widow can get £9
per week plus 10s. a week for each
child, for a similar period. Also up to
£5OO can be awarded to a victim for
pain and suffering.
It should be noted that this legislation
does not cover property losses and at
first sight it might seem illogical and
unjustifiable for the State to assume
liability for the consequences of crime
against the person and yet disclaim re-
sponsibility in regard to crimes against
property. There is, however, some justi-
fication for the distinction and the
following considerations are relevant:
Firstly, people whose goods are stolen
frequently have them restored; and also
the much greater frequency of offences
against property means that owners can
be expected to seek some protection
through insurance. The risk of being the
victim of a crime of violence on the
other hand is relatively slight and the
State is not entitled to assume that
private insurance will be sought.
Secondly, whereas citizens are en-
couraged and even exhorted to take
measures to protect their property
against theft they are not normally al-
lowed to carry weapons to defend them-
selves against violent attacks.
Thirdly, a citizen is under a duty to
assist in law enforcement by going to the
aid of the police, reporting offences,
giving evidence at trials and so on. Yet
the performance of these duties may in-
volve the risk of immediate injury or
subsequent reprisals without any gua-
rantee of compensation. In the circum-
stances a certain reluctance to give very
active assistance is understandable.
Finally, a scheme of universal compen-
sation would involve vast and unpredict-
able commitments, and moreover give
far greater opportunities for fraud.
It was Rafaele Garofalo, one of the
founders of modern criminology, (and
the man who coined the word), who as
long ago as 1885 at a Penal Congress
in Rome initiated the campaign for re-
paration to the injured which is now
bearing fruit in New Zealand. Peno-
logists have long argued that the
development of an enlightened and
rational penal policy is hampered by the
fact that victims and potential victims,
realising that it is the only “satisfaction**
they are likely to get, have tended to
support harsh and unimaginative penal
policies.
Certainly one would not expect those
who have been blinded, crippled, raped
or mutilated to be suffused with solici-
tude for the welfare of those responsible
for their condition. The ordinary citizen
generally prohibited from carrying wea-
pons and thus deprived of the means of
self protection, deprived also by State
intervention (the imprisonment of the
offender) of any effective civil remedy,
might well feel that stern and rigorous
punishment was one of the last bulwarks
of their defence.
And yet it is a curious paradox that
whereas the fate of a Rupert Max Stuart
or a Robert Peter Tait can convulse the
nation and give rise to widespread and
bitter controversy, that of the anony-
mous army of those maimed and dis-
abled by criminal violence arouses little
interest or sympathy.


letters
to the
editor
INDONESIA
Sir,
Dr Frank Knopfelmacher (28/12/63),
in offering to correct my article on Indo-
nesia, has added some misjudgments of
his own. I would agree with him that
Indonesia’s failure to cope with economic
problems must form a permanent back-
drop against which that country’s ex-
ternal as well as domestic problems must
be examined. I am less happy about the
other factors he lists as constituting “all
the classical features of prebolshevism”.
(Incidentally, might they not, if they
existed, be regarded with equal justice
as the pre-conditions of a possible
Right-wing regime?) There is corruption
and incompetence in government, but
he is not correct in describing the “ruling
class” as “utterly corrupt and incom-
petent”. There is honesty and com-
petence, too.
Again, he is misleading in saying that
“the writ of the Government does not
run in many areas” and quite wrong in
saying that it “does not extend very
much into the countryside”. The terri-
torial administration of Indonesia is one
of the more efficient aspects of govern-
ment.
Nor am I sure what is meant exactly
by the “Soviet military presence”. Does
he mean that Indonesia has obtained
arms from the Soviet bloc? She has cer-
tainly done that, and has received tech-
nical military aid besides. But does that
mean the kind of Soviet commitment
which can be observed, for example, in
Cuba?
Finally, while it is true that Indonesia
has a large and well organised Com-
munist party with an “impressive system
of peasant organisations”, this needs to
be seen in the Indonesian context. There
are many grounds for believing that the
PKI has placed itself in a dilemma in
recent years. In supporting the present
regime it has become, in considerable
measure, its prisoner, and has gone far
towards losing its militancy and its sense
of direction. This is not, of course, to
say that it is not a tremendously import-
ant factor in the situation, and in
changed circumstances circumstances
of famine, perhaps, or of further internal
revolt—its prospects could alter radically.
But more informed observers than Dr
Knopfelmacher tend to agree that, within
the broad outlines of the present
domestic situation, the party remains a
good way from the threshold of power.
For all these differences my article
did not disagree with Dr Knopfelmacher’s
recommendation of vigilance and resist-
ance to further territorial demands as
the basis of Australian policy. It did
argue, however, that vigilance was not
inconsistent with a determination to
keep our channels of communication
open. Would Dr Knopfelmacher really
suggest otherwise?
J. D. LEGGE
Monash University,
Clayton (Vic.).
“ANY QUESTIONS”
Sir,
It is very nice that Mr Frank Roberts
(21/12/63) had just seen a television
version of “Any Questions”. He did so
just in time, for the programme has
dropped so heavily in popularity in the
last six months that it is going off on
what the ABC is pleased to call “an
indefinite rest”. It was pleasing to know,
also, that Mr Roberts approves of “non-
academic panels”, which he regards as
a novelty.
Perhaps I may be permitted to point
out that during my term as producer
of “Any Questions” the programme be-
came so popular on radio that we started
a television edition as well.
As long ago as last March we intro-
duced to the national television pro-
gramme such people as Mr Dennis
Pryor, senior lecturer in classics at the
University of Queensland; the dis-
tinguished newspaperman and author,
Mr Cyril Pearl; and Mirror Newspapers
columnist Miss Carolyn Berntsen; all of
whom Mr Roberts applauded. Mr Edgar
Holt, of course, has been a regular radio
panelist for years, and he was a “natural”
for the television series when we intro-
duced it last February.
I’m glad, also, that Mr Roberts en-
joyed the daringly controversial old
chestnut of recognising China. Perhaps
he would like to get together with me
one of these days and learn of some of
the questions that were forbidden on the
programme when I was arranger-pro-
ducer . . . Crimes Act permitting, of
course.
I hope Mr Roberts and the politicians
will enjoy Mr John Dease’s “Quiz
Kids” programme which replaces “Any
Questions” this year. All we really need
to cap off an unhappy year in the ABC’s
history is a statement from ABC officials
that there is still no political interference
in the workings of the Commission and
its programme officers.
CHARLES STOKES
Sydney (NSW).
MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY
Sir,
Your correspondent “Higinbotham”
(“Around Melbourne,” 28/12/63), gives
a completely distorted picture of Mel-
bourne University. To claim that Pro-
fessor Wright is the “one turbulent spirit
of Melbourne University” is to show
complete ignorance of the developments
that have taken place at the university
since the late ’fifties.
Under the leadership of the late Bill
Thomas, former president of the ALP
Club, one of the most radical student
movements had its origin at Melbourne
University, the Student Action move-
ment of 1961. It involved mainly
students, but it also had considerable
public support outside the university. Its
demonstrations against the White Aus-
tralia policy of both major political
parties attained wide and favourable
publicity in Asian countries and through-
out the world. One of the features of
the campaign was that it reflected a
high level of political and social maturity.
Other more recent efforts of the
student movement at Melbourne in-
cluded an anti - hanging campaign, an
education campaign, protests against the
persecution of Jews in the USSR, and
an anti - apartheid campaign which is
still in progress.
Over 800 students attended the first
Thomas Memorial Lecture given by
A. R. Crossland, a British Labor MP.
During the present university vacation
over 50 students are attending seminars
organised by the ALP Club on Marxism,
social theory and Asian politics.
The present student generation does
not believe that pointless brawls with the
police, alcoholism, obscene language and
fellow-travelling are likely to improve
our society or that they are marks of
student radicalism.
JOHN JOHNSTON
Chairman, Student Action.
Melbourne (Vic.).
MORANT AND HANDCOCK
Sir,
I was much interested in the article
(28/12/63) on the execution during the
South African War of Harry Morant
and Handcock, and how the matter had
been hushed up. It certainly was. When
they were court-martialled and shot at
Pretoria I was on a column in charge of
Col. Williams not far from there, and
we on the column knew nothing of the
case, although the slightest news of
interest usually spreads like wildfire
through a regiment.
The article does not mention that
Lieut. Hunt, whose body was mutilated
by the Boers, had a sister in England
who was engaged to Morant. I read
this in a paper in Sydney later, together
with a poem written by Morant whilst
in the condemned cell. I remember the
last two lines: “Here’s to the trim set
petticoat I leave behind in Devon.”
Talking about mutilations, when I
was in a so-called detail camp at Klerks-
dorp, herds of cattle every day used to
be sent out, mostly with guards, to
grass on the veldt several miles from the
town, and some of the guards had
pretty hectic experiences. Two members
of the 13th Hussars were shot one day
and then run through with their swords.
G. L. HOBSON
Narrabeen (NSW).


REVIEWS
MUSIC
Raising The Roof
Australian Jazz: No longer a dirty word
By TOM PICKERING
Australian Jazz Convention. Mel-
bourne.
/An Boxing Day, for five days and
nights, Melbourne (specifically the
Kew Civic Centre) was invaded by jazz-
men from all parts of the Common-
wealth, the occasion being the 18th Aus-
tralian Jazz Convention. Most delegates
agree that this was the biggest and best
yet.
The first of these Conventions was
held at the Eureka Hall, North Mel-
bourne, in 1946 and since then Sydney,
Adelaide, Hobart and Cootamundra have
played host to thousands of musicians
and enthusiasts for this unique function.
The original idea was to enable tradi-
tional jazz musicians from all States to
meet and play together in a casual and
friendly atmosphere. A side-issue was
to present authentic jazz to a then
apathetic public. In 1946, only a hand-
ful of amateur musicians were playing
jazz, the revivalist movement having be-
gun a few years before World War 11.
Activities at that first Convention centred
on a few bands whose members have
become the veterans of Australian jazz:
the Graeme Bell and Tony Newstead
bands from Melbourne, the Southern
Jazz Group from Adelaide, and the
Barrelhouse Four from Hobart.
Since then, particularly when the
venue was Sydney or Melbourne, the
Convention has become big business,
involving upwards of 60 bands and audi-
ences of thousands. Happily, the original
aims have not been forgotten and noth-
ing has been sacrificed for commercial
reasons, though some of the intimacy
has unavoidably been lost. Organisation
on a huge scale is still carried out with
notable efficiency by a committee of
dedicated amateurs (led this year by Bill
Haesler) and profits go towards financing
the following year’s Convention.
The exchange of musical ideas made
possible by this annual get-together has
been instrumental in developing tradi-
tional jazz in Australia to a point where
it is comparable to any in the world.
Much has also been done to explain
and present this type of music to the
general public which, largely due to
these efforts, no longer thinks of jazz
as a dirty word.
Besides the concerts, which are the
chief feature, the programme includes
a riverboat trip, a street parade using
veteran cars, an original tunes competi-
tion, private jam sessions, recording
dates, and some form of social evening
generally referred to as the “rorty old
do.” A rehearsal hall is provided which
is in constant use by the less-experienced
bands and pick-up groups. At more re-
cent conventions it has been the practice
to record all public performances, and
pressings made up of tracks of one’s
own choosing may be purchased.
TCVen though modern jazz now has its
performers and followers in Australia,
the Convention is still restricted to tradi-
tional jazz and, considering the unfor-
tunate animosity which exists between
the two camps, this is probably inevit-
able. However, the inclusion of all types
of non-commercial jazz might eventu-
ally break down these barriers to the
benefit of both sides. Actually the term
“traditional” is interpreted widely enough
to include a variety of jazz styles, from
a choir singing spirituals to a perform-
ance of Mainstream (small group Swing).
One year, to the disgust of the diehards,
a 12-piece band played written arrange-
ments!
Experiments in style and instrumenta-
tion are refreshing and welcome when so
much of the programme consists of
young bands, all using the “accepted line-
up,” churning out the same tunes in
the same way. Valuable as it is for these
embryo groups to perform in public and
gain experience, their great number and
similarity has been responsible for the
non-attendance of many veterans. The
opinion has been voiced that those over
40 should shake their ageing bones at a
separate Convention, presumably a more
intimate and leisurely affair. The pion-
eers may find it hard to stand the pace,
but it would be a pity to deprive the
younger musicians of their help.
TELEVISION
Monotony
Frank I field. Channel 9. Sydney.
lfield is one of those per-
formers who arouse neither enthu-
siasm nor dislike. He is competent, skil-
ful and charming enough, but he makes
no impact whatsoever. All the smooth-
ness and sophistication he has acquired
in England, all the clever things he does
with his voice, do not disguise the fact
that as a personality he is unexciting
and as a singer he is often monotonous.
As a showcase for Mr Ificld’s very
average talents, this programme was well
planned, but Ifield, despite the profes-
sional flair, didn’t give enough. His de-
livery was often stagey and his attempts
at intimacy with his viewers seemed
forced and embarrassing. As conceived,
the opening sequence on a beach could
have been most effective, and indeed the
opening song, “At Daybreak”, was well
sung and nicely photographed, but each
successive number became more and
more like a parody of the tritest musical
comedy.
Ifield himself was never much more
than adequate. His phrasing, particularly
in his own hit songs, was fine, if rather
obviously imitative, and his voice occa-
sionally sounded strong and warm. But
he repeated himself. His arrangements,
and his approach to each song, were
almost identical, and his penchant for
falsetto yodelling, often at the most un-
likely moments, became most obtrusive
and annoying. His movements, surpris-
ingly, were sometimes clumsy and awk-
ward, although his playing to the
cameras was assured.
Eartha Kitt could have extended her
recent television spectacular for another
hour. So too could have Sammy Davis
Junior. But Frank Ifield is still an im-
mature performer, and his half hour
dragged. He lacks versatility or sufficient
individual quality as a singer. Until
he ceases being “pleasant” and becomes
more noticeable, his appeal will stay with
the teenage market.
WILLIAM DANIELS
THEATRE
Spook Story
The Canterville Ghost. Oscar Wilde.
Ensemble Theatre, Sydney.
T'he Ensemble has begun a series of
Saturday late afternoon entertain-
ments with a beguiling bill that presents
a half-hour or so of a folksinger, Gary
Shearston, followed by a wholly capti-
vating, outrageously exhibitionistic stag-
ing of Wilde’s tale, “The Canterville
Ghost”, by Reginald Livermore whose
very considerable talents are surely be-


COGEDAR LINE
T.V. FLAVIA GRAND PACIFIC CRUISE TO
HONOLULU, HILO
& TAHITI
ALSO CALLING AT AUCKLAND,
SUVA, SAVU SAVU, BORA-BORA,
& RAROTONGA, WITH 5 DAYS IN
HONOLULU-4 DAYS IN TAHITI
JUNE-JULY, 1964
Enjoy every comfort aboard the luxury, one-
class liner T.V. FLAVIA; the finest European
or Australian Cuisine, air-conditioning
throughout, stabilizers for smooth sailing,
and cabins with their own private facilities.
FARES FROM £345
See any authorised Travel Agent or Cogedar Lint
General Agent: H. C. Sleigh Limited
Melbourne • Sydney • Brisbane • Adelaide • Hobart * A.P.T. Shipping Pty. Ltd., Perth
SUVA
SAVU SAVU
SYDNEY
AUCKLAND
MELJH3URNE
HONOLULU
k HILO
TAHITI
BORA-BORA
RAROTONGA
539-63
ing overlooked too much by our
theatrical establishment!) and John
Denison.
I fell for this simple telling of the
literal story, with Livermore as story-
teller-cum-ghost, with a few diverting
tableaux and marvellous sound effects,
far more strongly than for either the
film or television treatments of the piece.
Much more of the authentic Wilde flavor
comes through, the wonderful language
flows, and I doubt if you could find a
better occupation for late on a Saturday
afternoon. Mr Shearston’s singing,
loaded with sincerity, is a help to the
whole occasion, too.
KEVON KEMP
FILMS
Pastiche
Charade. Director, Stanley Donen.
State Theatre. Sydney.
has all the standard, sub-
Hitchcock ingredients: the complex,
confusing plot; the slim, elegant heroine;
the well-dressed, witty hero played, not
at all by chance, by Cary Grant. It all
adds up to something less than “North
By North-West” or “To Catch A Thief”,
but it does add up to a couple of hours’
amusement.
Audrey Hepburn is far from being
my favorite comedienne—a blank stare
from her enormous eyes is used to ex-
press comical bewilderment, with an
occasional batting of eyelashes to indicate
panic. Still she is certainly slim to the
point of being skinny, and wears
Givenchy’s clothes gracefully. She is less
successful with his baby-trainer hats, but
who can wear those?
A body is flung from a train. Miss
Hepburn is the widow of the deceased,
whom she was planning to divorce.
She’s hardly grief-stricken, but it turns
out that her unsatisfactory husband had
a large sum of stolen money which
various sinister characters assume she
now owns.
The widow is befriended by an
attractive, iron-grey man - about - town
(Cary Grant, who else?) —but is he quite
what he seems? When the sinister
characters start turning up dead in baths
and lift-wells, the poor girl’s eyelash-
batting is understandable.
Donen has faithfully followed the
Hitchcock gimmick of juxtaposing the
everyday with the outlandish, the
humorous with the macabre. He has
not the unerring gauge of audience re-
action that makes Hitchcock’s timing
almost contemptuously accurate, and
some of his scenes of violent death tend
to arouse nausea rather than Gothic
horror. The script competently employs
the cliches of smart dialogue without the
authentic crackle and sparkle.
BEVERLEY TIVEY


We Suit Our Memories
(From "Stroke")
Oaks, pines, the willows with their quiet
Terror; the quiet terror of my age;
The seven-year-old bookworm sitting out
At night, in the intense cold, the horse
Tethered, the stars almost moving,
The cows encroaching on the night grass.
The frost stung my lips; my knees burned;
Darkness alone was homely. The hawthorn-tree
Shimmered as though frost had turned to language
And language into sharp massy blossoms.
Once I even scraped my father’s hand
And noticed the white underside of birches
That, moving, almost touched the flashing stars.
Methodist Church, the farther police-station,
The nearer barn: a whole world
Was at the reach of eyes
Though not of words, and so could not be warmed.
That night, or nights, I had forgotten;
And if I think back, there’s nothing mythical:
A cross-legged kid with a brooding nose
His hands were too chilled to wipe,
A book whose pages he could hardly turn,
A silent father he had hardly learned
To touch; cold he could bear,
Though chill-blooded; the dark heat of words.
A life neither calm nor animal.
Now, in the deeper quiet of my age,
I feel thirty years
Turning my blood inwards; neither trees nor stars,
But a hush and start of traffic; spasms of sound
Loosening tramrails, bluestone foundations,
Manuscripts, memories; too many tasks;
A body shrinking round its own
Corruption, though a long way from dying.
We suit our memories to our sufferings.
VINCENT BUCKLEY
Revenants
Speaking to my son
I hear my father’s voice
Out of sight and mind
Something gazes, stirs.
In my daughter’s eyes
I see my mother’s look
Reading at bedtime
From any own childhood’s book.
J. R. ROWLAND
Figurehead
This last beach of my holiday,
this last imprinted sand and last
moon are all behind my back.
My ankles are cuffed by furry sea
where tomorrow they’ll be wrapped in dust
for I’ll be forced to walk on tarmac
that never yields to human tread,
see in my sky the city rise.
Shall I recall tonight (this green
of my feet in waves, this figurehead
of my romantic ship, the last
of its memories and keenest pride)
in tomorrow’s wreck and race between
corpse and flotsam to strike land first?
RODNEY HALL
POETRY
Sea Child
PART I
Ask any child
the day surrounds,
to drown in the sea
is to suffocate of roses.
Anemone and star
are not insular
in their element.
Bird sailing the wind,
the flower and circle
of rock-pool world
these break on that gale
which rages, and is not less than love.
PART II
IT is still there
the day-long song,
for a child or bird to stare.
The wind tossed air
has wrought §o little change
here, where anemone and star
declare their secret war
with all the scaled
and feathered things
that range
this weather’s shore.
So walk the coast, man-child,
the sea-long day is wild
with elemental change:
it’s here the whale careens, conceives,
and here the stranded trumpeter
becomes a stone
slowly another element.
Tides of ambergris . . .
This is that other world
and you are just beginning,
rest and observe ....
the day-long song still ringing.
PART 111
Child, you are deep in the air,
you rise with the wave in sunlight;
a dream of the sounding sea
must walk through your wakefulness.
Your eyes
are with birds on the gale edge,
and the sea-salt light-house pillars;
they follow the white foam horses
and can never completely return.
JOHN GOODAY
Bush Walk
Leaf-needle
Pierced my hand
And my complacency.
I saw myself in a singing flower.
We clung together in a grain of time
Watching the ice-diamond stream
Splashing faces of the quaker stones.
WENDY HOROWITZ


RED PAGE
The Angry American
A dose of Gore and brimstone
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Rocking the Boat. Gore Vidal. Heine-
mann. 375. 3d.
White hope of American letters in
the post World War II period, white
elephant of the late 19505, Gore Vidal
has emerged during the last few years as
television playwright, essayist, scourge
and occasional journalist the younger
Malcolm Muggeridge of Baghdad-on-the
Hudson. Probably the reason Mugger-
idge is America’s favorite British pundit,
and Vidal and Dwight Macdonald are
so highly regarded there for opinion-
making, is that all three have become
snaggle-toothed scolds, biting every hand
except the one feeding them at the mo-
ment and assailing only the biggest
targets. While Muggeridge gets into the
surtax bracket by denouncing the Queen
Mum, British morals and Winston
Churchill in New York, Vidal writes off
the whole American theatre except for
the works of Tennessee Williams, and
Dwight Macdonald raps Hollywood over
the knuckles for not losing what is left
of its shirt on non-commercial films.
Muggeridge professionally hates Britain,
Vidal and Macdonald hate the States.
No doubt if they all turned sanguine,
cosy and patriotic, they would be sel-
ling matches in Poughkeepsie or Peck-
ham Rye.
First admired as a novelist (“Willi-
waw,” “The City and the Pillar”), Gore
Vidal had that kind of American success
story which involves an obscure returned
GI rn quick fame, fills his pockets with
money, and then leaves him high and
dry, his books suddenly out of fashion
and out of print and only his name left,
to be juggled in editorial conferences
high above Manhattan. Let’s get Vidal
to do Goldwater and Kennedy, let’s have
him knock Broadway again, let’s . . .
American magazines, edited on the
principle of hiring a famous name to
talk uninhibitedly on a famous subject,
feed on the spent genius of American
literature like sleek carrion crows.
Norman Mailer, Truman Capote, Calder
Willingham . . . the class of 1947’s
members most - likely - to - succeed nv>y
have to fight hard in their maturity to
remain artists when the public prefers
them as pundits or scandal-makers.
Discover ’em, make ’em, break ’em
. . . Vidal is embittered by his plight,
and his book of essays and articles,
“Rocking the Boat”, has that note of dis-
appointment which often gives criticism
a scissor edge. Like Macdonald, he con-
demns democracy as a flop, crying out,
with so many thwarted American sages,
for a non-existent aristocracy of intellect.
Most pundits are of necessity snobs, and
Vidal is no exception. The sense of being
judged more on suit, smile and physique,
like a vacuum-cleaner salesman, than on
intellect, by the vast mass of the
American public, perturbs him and
makes him turn bitterly on that public
and its idols.
T>ut even if he is uneasily incarcerated
in “that graveyard of stillborn talents
which contains so much of the brief
ignoble- history of American letters” he
is quite agreeably vocal. He writes well:
cleanly, crisply, with a lightly mannered
style which raises him above the
machine-tooled dead level of the average
American magazine writer. And he tells
us a good deal that is useful to know
about the savagely dismissive and
nihilistic flavor of contemporary intel-
lectual life in the States. One of the
shocks the naive experience visiting New
York is how quickly the famous
American optimism and vitality have
gone sour out East. Faces at publishers’
and magazine editors’ parties, carefully
suntanned-out-of-a-bottle though they
may be, are stamped all over with that
sour-pug look which seems to say: “What
the hell has gone wrong with this
country?” Vidal, ferociously, replies
“everything”: Broadway can be summed
up in the words of a Chaplin song, “Love
love love love love love love love love.”
Even the great idols of the past do not
escape. O’Neill had a “mastery of ideas
second to none, unless it be his fellow
ftobelist Pearl Buck”. Heilman, Sher-
wood, Odets, Macleish (“the heady
splendors of ‘J.B.’ ”), Wilder, all are
ignored or dismissed and even Miller
is not spared (“scratched, he bleeds
Love”). Like Macdonald, Vidal sets the
Paris names against those he has dropped
into the abyss, and is in despair: Gide,
Sartre, Camus, de Montherlant, Genet,
Anouilh, Julian Green, Giraudoux . . .
To those of us who admire the sparkle,
ingenuity and vibrance of the American
theatre, there is room for a corrective
to all this highly-paid vituperation. Can
-—to take only two examples “The
Little Foxes” and “The Big Knife” be
regarded as examples of “Love Love
Love”? And Heilman’s brilliant play
“The Searching Wind,” an ironical and
precise analysis of pre-war American
appeasement policies? Certainly it does
not contain the endorsement of
America’s big, shallow, warming-pan
heart which Vidal abhors.
It can also be held against him
that he has ignored the incomparable
American musical theatre. Nowhere else
but Broadway could have found the re-
sources of flesh, brains and inspiration
that could bring off an “Oklahoma!”, a
“Pal Joey,” a “West Side Story.” The
inventiveness, polish and charm that
distinguished these and a score of other
productions have made the American
musical stage the envy of the world.
If Paris is superior in ideas and London
in the art of loquacious vituperation,
then New York is superior in production
design, direction of actors, and physical
vitality. A visit to a British musical, all
damp humor, shabby sets and pasty faces,
or a Paris night-club, seedy and hideously
furnished, immediately points the con-
trast. Pace Vidal, America is still the
fountainhead of theatrical ideas that half
the West will copy for decades to come.
Turning his liverish gaze on other
aspects of the domestic scene (“Demo-
cracy is a disaster, Christianity a bitter
hoax . . .”), Vidal again lays into literary
figures with a momentarily entertaining
but finally exasperating unfairness. His
method is to make a series of bold,
ill-tempered general remarks, bolstered
by some quotations that display the
subject’s ineptitude, and stuffed with
snide cracks that often boomerang
disastrously. At no stage, save in a very
funny and devastating parodied puff for
a Penn Warren novel (“I wanted it to
go on forever, and so will you!”), does
Vidal really examine the text. Perhaps
afraid of losing his grip on the American
mind he despises, he seldom gets down
to that tough, remorseless but essential
examination of chapter and verse which
alone can conclusively wreck a reputa-
tion. Since demolition is Vidal’s purpose,
he would have been wiser—if he could
have got away with it—to have analysed,
line by line, the works of his betes noirs.
Does he leave them crushed? He does
not: a few nasty slaps are scarcely going
to make Miller, Heilman, Warren, Dos
Passos, etc., lie down and leave the field
to unpatriotic Gore.
What concerns me most about Vidal,
who has run (unsuccessfully) for
political office and here publishes some
rather superficial pictorial views of
Kennedy and Goldwater, is his arrogance.
He says somewhere in these pages that
without a final arrogance of this kind, no
critic in America can survive. Certainly


no mousy admirer of all-and-sundry
could get along there. But does this
arrogance have to assume so high-
pitched a tone, declining at its worst into
petulant ill-temper and querulousness?
Vidal, like Macdonald, can be very
funny when he is being nasty, especially
about Aunt Sallies like best-sellers, vote-
grabbing, the meritocracy and Mom. But
too often this way of thinking can turn
an artist like Vidal or a political
commentator like Macdonald into a pro-
fessional sourpuss with vinegar in his
veins. Good criticism may not be a
series of sighs of approval, but it
shouldn’t be viciously clapper-clawing
either, and the crosspatches I have re-
ferred to would do well to remember
that it is the Democracy they despise
which has given them a voice and paid
for their cocktails. If being out of
fashion ever goes out of fashion, Dwight
Vidal, that combination prototype of the
Yankee scold, may well have to look
for another line of work.
Doldrums
Penguin Modern Poets 4. David
n Holbrook, Christopher Middleton,
David Wevill. 4s. 6d.
Pistils For Two. Pat Flower. The
Wattlegrove Press. 30s.
/"Currently, poetry is in the doldrums.
• Much of the verse being written is
indistinguishable from what was being
written in 1933, except that the 1933
vintage had a real kick, but the 1963
equivalent has at the best a moderate
fizz.
David Wevill has written what for me
is the most memorable poem of the
poems under review. “Spiders” is about
how when “muddling up the stairs one
night, in my socks” the poet encounters
his sister coming down the stairs in her
slip. She is half asleep and does not
notice him. This is how he describes
her:
Such full pails for eyes; she might
have been glass;
The roman nose, pink lips peeled
white over salt.
This poem maintains considerable
power and precision over its thirty or
so lines. However, in too many of his
other poems Mr Wevill breaks down
into gluey self pity. I cannot take lines
such as “ Barbed squiggles of the centi-
pedes’ horned fingers”. The pain, too
often, is not transfused into poetry.
Christopher Middleton is more jaunty
than David Wevill. He relies more on
imagery. His rhythms are crisper and
sparser and in poems such as “An
Englishman in Texas” he achieves effects
of considerable virtuosity (but little
more, it seems to me). At his best he
writes lines like these:
while smoke of cedar scents our
room,
and we lug by hand strong logs
home
for the few cold days.
This is pleasantly sensual without a
great deal behind it. At his worst he
writes polysyllabic guff like this:
Telescoping flukes and faults, their
tenuous terrain dislocates
no spheres I know of. Her index
rebounding
off high C beckons no hell boulder
up.
Mr Middleton occasionally tries his
hand at nonsense verse. Most of it is
annoyingly trivial and cute. He occasion-
ally veers into the metaphysical, but
much of this I am afraid leaves me
completely in the dark. In his selection
of verse he uses a variety of modes and
moods which indicates either that he has
written a lot and has had to select a
few representative pieces of each mode,
or else that he is not very sure of what
he is doing.
David Holbrook is the most likeable
of this group of poets. He makes, a
genuine effort to affirm. In “Reflections
on a Book of Reproductions” he
celebrates the heroic significance of
ordinary daily trivia. Unfortunately at
the end of the poem he is overcome by
wordy generalisations, and the rhythm
breaks down completely. Similarly in
“Fingers in the Door” where he
describes how he jammed his daughter’s
fingers in a door he comes out with some
excellent lines about how
7 wished myself dispersed in a
hundred thousand pieces
Among the dead bright stars. The
child’s cry broke . . .
But he is again seduced later in the
poem into making rather obvious state-
ments, and once again the rhythm of the
poem is excessively loose. Mr Holbrook
is not able to handle free verse as com-
petently as some poets are and in several
poems he resorts to strict rhythm and
stanza forms. The effects, rhythmically,
are always much more successful. Mr
Holbrook seems to be making a genuine
attempt to come to grips with life in his
poetry, and is able to speak with feeling
about ordinary joys and sorrows.
Pat Flower in “Pistils for Two” has
a good ear for idiom and rhythm:
There are more things in heaven
and earth
Than marriage, death, divorce and
birth.
There’s cold cream, hair oil, brass
and pewter,
There’s male and female and there’s
neuter.
GEOFFREY LEHMANN
In the Round
In Mine Own Heart. Alan Marshall.
Cheshire. 275. 6d.
Tn this, the third volume of his fiction-
alised autobiography, Alan Marshall
takes us into the Depression years and
tells of his struggles to become a writer
and, in defiance of crutches, a lover of
women. In the upshot he is more forth-
coming about his successes in the former
direction. The book is one of his best.
It has the gusto of “I Can Jump Puddles”
without the occasional sentimentality
which marred passages in “This is the
Grass”.
It’s a story about people, and a tonic.
When it starts, young Alan is a book-
keeping clerk in a joinery and “casket”
factory, by the time it ends he is an
established love advice columnist with
a developing penchant for travelling and
meeting ordinary folk, to prove that
there’s drama in what most authors
would pass by an commonplace. On the
way up his integrity is tested, his observa-
tion sharpened, his sympathies deepened
and given their social bias. Once some
initial stiffness—or too great a concern
with avoiding it—is shaken out of his
prose, the narrative has splendid
momentum and each point and charac-
ter is set down with often memorable
sharpness.
There is Marshall and Paul going to
dances, and Paul having proxy-hops for
his mate. There’s Marshall getting to
know Ted Harrington and learning about
proletarian bohemia. There is Marshall
in the Collingwood shoe factory that
provided the stuff for his novel, “How
Beautiful Are Thy Feet”, watching the
corruption which accompanies business
decline and, more importantly, listening
to the talk of the workroom girls. In
rendering it ironically, faithfully and
with affection he creates enviably good
dialogue. He becomes a boarding-house
keeper and confidante of a barmaid,
always with a shrewd ear for other
peoples’ emotional troubles; a uniquely
superior Dorothy Dix who is personally
sought out by many unhappy corres-
pondents a warm-hearted recorder of
bagmen’s tales on the hungry track
(albeit overdoing it a little when twice
he allows fatal accidents to resolve a
problem: that sort of thing is all right
only in “life”), until, last but not least,
he mixes intimately with sideshow
people.
And this is the best of the lot. Mar-
shall on and with fair-ground boxers is
a gem of humanist reportage, but Mar-
shall as a part-time palmist is just as
delightful. The whole shows that
journalism can be a form of literature.
Only the bitterness and perhaps a wide-


flinging drive is missing and we would
have something more than half-way to
Jack London, but that’s ungrateful: who
would have entrusted his heartaches to
Jack? Alan Marshall remains generously
and relaxedly Australian.
DAVID MARTIN
Family Portrait
At The Hemingways. Marcelline
Hemingway Sanford. Putnam.
395. 9d.
Ma and Pa. Rose Lindsay. Ure Smith.
255.
“At the Hemingways” takes us be-
hind, but not very far behind,
the scenes with the prim, Congregation-
alist, Illinois family which produced
Ernest. Although some may feel that
the Hemingway legend has already been
sufficiently explored, there will no doubt
be many readers who will enjoy a delving
round in the doings and sayings of the
great man’s mother and father and
uncles and aunts. There are several
pages of restful family snapshots which
provide welcome oases when the going
becomes tedious, as 1 find it sometimes
does.
The dust-jacket note tells us that Mrs
Sanford “takes us into a warm intimacy”
with the youthful Ernest. But this
promise is scarcely fulfilled in the book
itself. The author’s range of interests
seems too narrow for her to be able to
make such biographical capital out of
the fact that she and Ernest were brought
up almost as twins. The writing can
glow with Enid Blyton enthusiasm when
Mrs Sanford describes a recipe:
Bobbie and Mother split the biscuit
cake into two layers, slathered great
gobs of golden butter on the bottom
crust, spread the thick mixture of
strawberries and sugar on it, and
delicately piled the rest of the gleam-
ing, fragrant, rosy fruit -on top.
But of such subjects as the developing
mind of her more interesting brother we
learn very little. The experiences of this
period of his life were treated much
more searchingly by Hemingway himself
in his collection of short stories, “In
Our Time”.
If the real characters of the Heming-
ways’ “Mother and Daddy” tend to dis-
appear behind Victorian whiskers and
old lace and the generally rather starchy
prose of Mrs Sanford, the same could
certainly not be said of Rose Lindsay’s
“Ma and Pa”. But the liveliness of this
series of anecdotes, mostly about the
author’s parents, does not always com-
pensate for its lack of form.
Rose Lindsay has some gifts as a
comic writer, her forte being the short
episode of domestic comedy, rather in
the style of Lennie Lower. There are
many wild scenes, such as the one when
Ma, in a rage with Pa, swings from his
beard “like a kid on a maypole”; or
when Pa wakes from a drunken slumber
and hastily disembarks from a moving
ferry into the moonlit waters of Sydney
Harbor. There is also more delicate
comedy of character. There are times,
however, when one feels that the author
is playing too hard for laughs, when
both one’s smile and credulity fade.
It seems a pity that Ure Smith decided
to bring this book out in sentimental
mauve, with pink roses alongside the
author’s Christian name. This doesn’t
seem to me to suggest the character of
the book at all. The most impressive
thing about the writing is its toughness,
and the way in which potential sob-
stuff is kept under control with a wry,
objective wit.
A. M. GIBBS
Last Flight
Southern Cloud. I. R. Carter. Lans-
downe Press. 28s. 6d
T. R. Carter hangs a book on the
mystery of Smith and UlnTs Aus-
tralian National Airways’ Southern
Cloud in which the lives of six men
and two women were lost during the
great depression on March 21, 1931. The
story of the Southern Cloud had
ceased to be a mystery long before Mr
Carter’s book was written, for the
remains of the aircraft had been found
27 years after its disappearance in the
wild mountain country not far from the
busy Snowy Mountains town of Cabra-
murra, and a little to the east of its
normal route to Melbourne. If there
were still any mysteries after the wreck
was found, Mr Carter knows and reveals
them all in the minutest detail, even to
the exact moment of the pilot's rising
in the morning of the disaster, how he
looked at the scudding overcast from
his bedroom window, put on his brown
suit with tie and shoes to match, clipped
his gold watch to his wrist, put his pen
and pencil and wallet in an inner pocket
. . . picked up a taxi and waved to his
family and so on, ball-to-ball for every
participant in the tragedy till the fog
closed over it. The book is badly titled
for it covers much of the biographical
history of Smith, Ulm, Lancaster,
Mollison, Scotty Allan and other heroes
of the days when there were no radio
beacons and pilots were the equivalent
of mediaeval knights and not mere aerial
train-sdrivers tied to a control panel like
a dog to a leash. However, Mr Carter’s
little book is a useful addition to aviation
history.
M. H. ELLIS
Avant-garde
Avant - Garde. The Experimental
Theatre in France. Leonard Cabell
Pron k o. Cambridge University
Press. 555. 9d.
book is a kind of Baedeker which
would be useful to anyone who is
interested in, but a bit nervous of, the
French avant-garde theatre. Pronko
traces its development from the pro-
duction of Alfred Jarry’s “Übu Roi” in
Paris in 1896, which he describes as a
dual revolt against naturalism in the
theatre and against bourgeois society,
through the plays of the dadaists and
surrealists and up to the production of
“Waiting for Godot” in 1953. It was
not until this production that the avant-
garde drama achieved anything like
popular success. Mr Pronko devotes
almost half the book to Beckett and
lonesco and gives a brief survey of
the plays of Adamov, Genet, Tardieu,
Vauthier, Pichette, Ghelderode, Audi-
berti and Schehade.
Mr Pronko’s criticism, which he
dedicates to his students at the Uni-
versity of California, is painstaking and
sympathetic and to this extent sets a
good example. But it is piecemeal and
does not rise above the level of class-
room exercises.
As well as a descriptive catalogue of
individual plays there is some general
discussion. Mr Pronko sees the avant-
garde drama as both new and old: as
advancing from realism, using new
forms, but also as returning to “some
primitive kind of spectacle, adopting the
form or spirit of some non-literary
theatre, mediaeval farce, circus, music-
hall in the case of Beckett or Ghelderode,
the guignol with lonesco, ceremony in
the theatre of Genet, and ballet or panto-
mime in Adamov’s.” These dramatists
are engaged in the creation of modern
myths. In their plays the meaning is
suggested indirectly through image and
symbol, as in modern poetry, rather than
stated explicitly as a problem or thesis.
But Mr Pronko is not an original
thinker. He has gathered up ideas,
suggestions and explanations like so many
colored shells tossed up by the tides of
criticism. The ideas are not developed
or explained with any sort of critical
rigor and the result is flabbiness.
However, the book does give some
useful historical and biographical in-
formation and introduces the reader,
though somewhat scrappily, to the
climate of critical opinion about the
avant-garde theatre.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
A Burst for Lead and Zinc
Metals got off to a good start in the New Year and
holders of Australian lead-zinc shares are wondering
anxiously how long the share price rise can continue.
Statistically, an analysis of lead-zinc metal production
and consumption indicates that consumption, although show-
ing an encouraging burst, is still overshadowed by production.
A few special prods to the London metals market have
helped to arouse renewed interest in Australian lead-zinc
companies and focused attention on what appeared to be
depressed share values. An ex-
cessive concentration of atten-
tion has its disadvantage, how-
ever, because the market is
fickle and, like vanity, needs
constant fuel.
The share market and the
stock options market have be-
come obsessed with lead-zinc
shares in recent weeks, particu-
larly with North Broken Hill
and South Broken Hill. Both
shares were mentioned by The
Bulletin some time ago, with
emphasis on special circum-
stances, but the market now has
enjoyed a substantial price rise
and perhaps it is time to put
things in perspective.
It is correct to say that the
outlook for lead and zinc is en-
couraging, based on the high
level of demand which has de-
veloped in recent months.
Factors leading to higher prices on the London Metals
Exchange include—
• Strong demand by the motor industry both in the
USA and Britain.
• US buying on the London Metals Exchange following
a temporary shortage of lead stocks prior to a price
increase from Hi to 13 cents a lb in New York.
• Prices of lead and zinc in New York were higher than
in London, causing a switch of buying to the London
Metals Exchange.
• An upwards revision of Japan’s import quotas for
lead, plus some speculative buying because of war
fears, has helped to clear surplus stocks from the
market.
Rising prices have the disconcerting effect of creating buyer
resistance, as indicated by the history of lead and zinc prices
in recent years. When lead prices are low, there is reduced
competition from scrap lead derived from scrap metal. When
lead is cheap, wider uses are found for it and consumption is
encouraged. But when lead prices start rising, the marginal
producers are encouraged back into production and the
consumers tend to seek alternative products as a substitute.
Some observers claim that the Soviet bloc has been using
more of its own metal and limiting its sales on Western
markets. If prices rise substantially, however, there will be
increased incentive for the Soviet bloc to make further sales
on the open market.
The US is expected to add to its stockpile of metals in
1964, but it is known that the
US already owns a large stock-
pile of metal, including 100,000
tons of surplus Australian and
Canadian stocks absorbed in
1961-62 when many marginal
producers were struggling for
survival.
Consumption of refined lead
by the Western world is ex-
pected to reach a new peak of
around 2i million tons in 1963-
64, but production figures are
still running ahead of this total,
of which Australia is contribut-
ing more than 400,000 tons.
Demand for refined zinc has
been stronger than lead, but
Western world demand in 1963-
64 is not expected to reach
the anticipated production of
2.8 million tons The extra
demand for zinc presents a
problem for most producers,
because normally they cannot produce one without the other.
Frequently it means that lead must be stockpiled while zinc
is sold.
The statistical position is emphasised by price disparities.
Zinc has been nudging £stgloo on the London Metals
Exchange while lead has remained about £stg2o lower.
A major consideration with Australian producers like
Broken Hill South and North Broken Hill is their joint interest
in the Kanmantoo copper deposits near Adelaide and Broken
Hill South's developing interest in the Cobar (NSW) deposit.
These special circumstances have added further speculative
interest to the stocks, and investors have been encouraged to
bid up for the shares in anticipation of favorable developments.
There is no doubt that recent price rijses for lead and zinc
will assist both companies this year, but whether it will be
translated into dividend increases to justify the recent upward
surge in share prices is another matter. When the shares were
neglected, it was safe to say they should make some eventual
recovery. But when the market suddenly re-discovers such
stocks, it is difficult to say how far share prices will rise
before normal statistical reaction sets in.


Protection for
European Farmers
I>ritain has decided that its cheap food policy of subsidising
UK farmers no longer will be financed by general tax
revenue but by an import duty on cheap agricultural products.
In the past, British farmers have been paid the difference
between the cost of imported produce and what the Govern-
ment considers a fair price for their farm goods. But this is
becoming too expensive.
As a result, the free importation of agricultural products
will go by the board and taxes will be imposed to balance
the amounts produced in Britain against the amounts and
prices of food imported from abroad. This legislation has
been described in Britain as a fine on importers for locating
cheap grain for British bread. Although importers will be
taxed and the general taxpayer (meaning direct Government
revenue) will be relieved of this subsidy, there is no guarantee
that food will be any cheaper.
It paves the way for a further round of talks with the
Common Market on a uniform system of agricultural imports
and tariffs but it highlights some of the weaknesses of a
managed economy. To cut down on some of its subsidy pay-
ments on grain last year, Britain asked some of its overseas
agricultural suppliers to charge more for their grain.
Britain and its major suppliers of meat and grain are
holding discussions in London this month where top-level
Australian trade representatives are discussing Britain’s pro-
posals for controlled imports.
The situation must be analysed in the light of the recent
Brussels conference of Common Market ministers where a
strongly protectionist attitude for European agriculture
emerged. France agreed to help West Germany preserve the
German high-cost farming industry (including direct sub-
sidies to German dairy farmers until 1970 at least), but also
demonstrated that she will make every effort to restrict
agricultural imports to Europe, with particular opposition
towards US goods.
The combined European moves indicate that the forth-
coming Geneva talks on tariff reductions are going to be
rough for the exporting nations.
Blasts for
World’s Fair
HThe 1000 million dollar New York World’s Fair, sponsored
- by a private organisation and scheduled to run two years
from next April, is encountering a horde of criticisms. The
spate of publicity at least will make people aware of the Fair's
existence.
Formal participation by nations in this privately operated
Fair is not permitted by international agreement, but “foreign-
ers” are saying that the Fair Corporation is breaking plenty
of other rules in the international agreement on world fairs.
Many nations are hostile because the New York World's
Fair is scheduled to run for two years instead of the agreed
one year. Also, contrary to international agreement, it is the
second world's fair to be staged in the same country within
ten years. Washington’s excuse is that the Fair is not a Govern-
ment project, although perhaps they may wish it were under
its control in view of the growing financial difficulties of the
Fair Corporation which was obliged to borrow huge sums in
Federal and State loans to finance the construction.
US prestige suffered a setback when there was a flood of
complaints by prospective operators of food, entertainment
and other concessions who asserted that they could not obtain
a contract unless they undertook to pay graft money of about
30 per cent on all receipts.
Critics say the Fair has been badly mismanaged and that
many sections of the Fair will not be completed in time for
the opening date of April 22.
A current complaint is that visitors will be tramping through
mud and slush instead of the promised concrete pathways and
that children will be charged full fare unless they are local
school children in organised groups accompanied by their
school teacher.
Private representatives of each participating nation, or US
import representatives, are handling exhibits from about 45
countries in an International Pavilion (with Britain an
absentee), but critics say that visitors are more likely to gravi-
tate to the amusement section, which includes restaurants and
night clubs
Sponsors hope that the much-criticised two-year duration
of the Fair will enable it to cram sufficient visitors into the
area to recoup the huge outlay on the Fair. But the pessimists
are quoting the example of the New York World’s Fair of
1939 which had a deficit of many millions. Overlooked per-
haps is the tremendous gain to Uncle Sam from the spending-
money brought to America by visiting tourists, a trend which
Washington is anxious to foster as an offset to the several
billion dollars spent by US tourists in their annual jaunts
abroad.
Japanese Cars
in Australia
P'laims that Japanese vehicles are making an impact on the
Australian market are borne out by the registration
figures for November when nearly 1000 new vehicles were
registered.
Prominent in the list was Datsun (154 sedans, 98 station
wagons and 181 commercial vehicles), Toyota Toyopet (170
sedans and 145 commercial vehicles), and Nissan (69 sedans
and 68 commercial vehicles).
Arrangements recently completed for assembly of Japanese
vehicles in Australia should see a further increase in this
type of import and emphasises the severe competition likely
to develop this year in Australia with several new models due
to be released by major distributors.
Bank Call Up of
SRD’s Was Overdue
call up by the Reserve Bank of an extra £25 million by
raising the Statutory Reserve Deposit ratio of the trading
banks from 10.8 p.c. to 12 p.c. as from January 8 will help
to mop up some of the surplus liquidity in the Australian
economy without altering the general banking policy laid
down by the Reserve Bank last October.
With buoyant receipts from exports and a delay in such
call up of SRD’s until after the elections, the latest restraint
was overdue. There is little doubt that the volume of money
in circulation justifies the call up without interfering in any
way with a general policy of expansion. The trading banks
have plenty of money to lend and Dr Coombs has indicated
that in the next few months the Reserve Bank will find it
necessary to siphon off more money.
With the Reserve Bank also selling Government securities
to counter the excess of liquid funds in public hands, the
Commonwealth Government is in a very strong position to
raise further loan moneys from the public and continue the
happy position of over-abundance of bond subscriptions.
While the thought of inflation keeps repeating itself, questions
now are being asked if the Government would not prefer a
Budget surplus this financial year instead of the deficit Budget
it introduced last July to kick things along.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Functions of a National Development Authority
Tliis is the second of a series of articles on the Stanford Research Institute’s survey,
4 *The Development of Australia”.
Tn its advocacy of the establishment of
a National Development Authority
for Australia, the Stanford Research
Institute's survey says that such an
authority with the specific responsibility
of planning a development programme
to meet national rather than local needs,
could do for development what the Aus-
tralian Universities Commission does for
higher education—that is, represent the
need, present a considered policy and
allocate available resources among
regional claimants.
But in addition, the survey says the
authority could carry ideas and inven-
tions beyond the scientific stage through
the proving stages of industrial develop-
ment and at least promote their
financing.
Also, “a similar service could be per-
formed by the promotion after prior in-
vestigation of authorities, corporations,
organisations, commissions or financial
consortiums for regional development in
areas selected for their economic
potential and strategic importance”.
Indeed, the more the surveyors allow
themselves to run on, the wider becomes
the scope for loading the envisaged
authority with functions, and the more
urgent does their dissatisfaction with the
present set-up here become.
“The crucial question,” the survey
states, “is whether Australians regard the
necessity for development as sufficiently
urgent and compelling to warrant such a
delegation of power to a specialised
institution.” For all its admission that
“Australia is one of the most advanced
countries in the world” and has made
great strides in development, the sur-
veyors are clearly convinced that our
present approach to development is too
piecemeal and needs to be integrated
by a special body.
Tt acknowledges that a beginning at
integration has been made by the
appointment of the Government’s Com-
mittee of Inquiry, but “any programme
or guide lines of action laid down by
that committee will need constant review
and adaptation to changing economic
conditions”. And it points to the national
economic development councils estab-
lished in many countries such as Britain,
New Zealand and India as precedents.
The survey sets out five broad
functions for a National Development
Authority as follows:
“ The first broad function of such a
council would be to integrate into a
coherent national plan the many regional,
occupational and functional projects now
proposed for development. A broad,
flexible plan should be established and
kept constantly under review. Cabinet
and Parliament have too many pre-
occupations to expect either body to
keep development continuously in the
forefront of their attention. It is im-
possible to blueprint it in detail at a
particular moment in time. To be
effective, a development plan must be
flexible and kept continuously under
review by competent specialists. One
has only to read the vicissitudes of the
development of the national capital at
Canberra to realise this truism.”
second requirement, says the sur-
vey, is the establishment of priorities
within the broad general plan. “This is
essential for efficiency. It is necessary
to put first things first, functionally and
regionally. Prior research and the build-
ing of communications, transport, water
and power facilities are essential to the
success of any development venture.
Merely to state this implies the desirability
of focusing development effort and ex-
penditure upon specific regions, so that
integrated regional development schemes
may be pushed rapidly to completion.
Piecemeal, unco-ordinated development
is both wasteful and inefficient; but it is
very likely to emerge from the present
haphazard system whereby argicultural,
mining, industrial and transport develop-
ment projects issue from different depart-
ments”.
Thirdly, following the initial research
and development investigations, “it
would be a prime function of a National
Development Council to negotiate with
the State and Commonwealth Govern-
ments and with private industry to under-
take the necessary public works and
mineral and industrial development
enterprises, or at least to stimulate such
action. There may be cases calling for
joint ventures or financial consortia in
which the risks of a large venture are
shared.
“The construction of the great irriga-
tion and power dams in the western
United States was undertaken by such
joint ventures. It is obvious from similar
recent ventures involving the participa-
tion of Australian and foreign enter-
prises in mineral exploration and de-
velopment, that the principle is applicable
to Australian development projects. A
National Development Council would be
in a better position than either State or
Commonwealth Government agencies to
assist in the promotion of such ventures.”
Fourthly, “a National Development
Council is needed also to formulate the
policies and controls necessary to safe-
guard the national interest as new enter-
prises are established, particularly when
foreign capital is involved. Parliament
remains supreme, but in the present
division of authority between the Com-
monwealth and State Governments it
would seem necessary for a competent
body with specialised knowledge of de-
velopment problems and issues to in-
vestigate the conditions under which
natural resources are exploited and
recommend any changes in State and
Commonwealth legislation that seem
appropriate to safeguard the national
interest.
“There are questions regarding local
participation in branches of foreign
enterprise, restrictions imposed by the
franchises under which local enterprises
are licensed to use foreign patents and
processes, the appropriate rates of
royalty to be paid on the exploitation of
wasting natural assets, tax concessions
and subsidies to encourage specific
aspects of development and generally
over the whole range of relationships
between foreign capital and domestic
enterprises. Many of these are now
handled by departments of the State
and Commonwealth Governments ad
hoc. It would seem desirable to formu-
late a national policy in such matters
and to do so as an aspect of national
development.”
“in contrast to the import of
A foreign capital or the purchase of
foreign know-how, there is an urgent
need for applied research and develop-
ment to promote, patent and export Aus-
tralian know-how and inventions. Aus-
tralians are an ingenious and mechanic-
ally-minded people. There is an increas-
ing volume of adaptation and invention.
This has been supplemented in recent
years by practical applications arising
from fundamental scientific research.
Until recently there has been little effort
to patent, and profit from, such dis-
(Continued on page 43)


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION
LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of
New South Wales on the Bth March, 1950.
PAID UP CAPITAL, £1,493,231
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
3
*
0
4
P.A
FOR 5 YEARS
7i%
P.A.
4 YEARS
7 4 % P.A.
3 YEARS
7% P.A.
2 YEARS
62 % p.a.
12 MONTHS
SHJ.NOVII 9
V'd 0/
Also available REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
Rates from 7% p.a. for 12 months
to 7%% p.a. for 3 years.
= SHORT TERM RATES =
5%
3 MTHS.’
NOTICE
52%
6 MTHS.
NOTICE
6%
9 MTHS.
NOTICE
HOW TO INVEST
Applications can only be accepted on the form
attached to, and referred to in the prospectus which
is available from the principal office of the
• Bank of New South Wales
in each capital city and in Canberra and Newcastle
• Any member of the Stock Exchange
• or THE COMPANY’S OFFICES
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney
’Phone: 27-8621
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Canberra, Newcastle.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney
Please send me, without obligation, a copy
of your Prospectus. LlOB
NAME
ADDRESS
8562/101
coveries and inventions and it is still
difficult to find the money necessary to
develop an invention through the pilot
processes of testing and adaptation to
commercial use.
“For the execution of regional de-
velopment projects, it is likely that a
National Development Council would
find it necessary to recommend the
creation of specific regional authorities
or commissions as was done in the case
of the Snowy Mountains project. An
alternative would be to create by agree-
ment between the Commonwealth and
States concerned a Northern Develop-
ment Authority.”
However, the survey warns that one of
the substantial objections to the creation
of such official bodies is that they tend
to operate by Parkinson’s Law and ex-
pand an already large apparatus of
government administration. It is for
this reason that regional development
schemes should be concerned with
specific, defined areas and in those areas
will concentrate upon the public works
necessary to attract and facilitate the
operations of private enterprise.
Further, “if a Northern Development
Authority were to be created for the
whole northern area, or if, following the
recommendations of a National Develop-
ment Council, it was decided to create
one or more development authorities
with specific responsibilities, considera-
tion should be given to financing de-
velopment by its own proceeds. It would
seem logical to service the initial capital
investment by levying an appropriate
royalty charge upon the minerals (in-
cluding oil) developed in the region, as
the Snowy Mountains Authority sells the
power it generates, and expects in this
way to amortize the initial capital invest-
ment over 75 years.”
INVESTMENT SECTION
Chairman Warns the Chairmen
Labor Shortage Could Cause Problems
TUIr Alfred Mellor, chairman of the
Melbourne Stock Exchange, struck
a sound note when the Melbourne
’Change opened its 1964 year by urging
company directors to take early steps
in ensuring that their current plans and
budgets were realistic.
The main reason for his warning was
the labor shortage which is now emerg-
ing in some industries as growing pros-
perity reduces unemployment to negli-
gible levels. Under such circumstances,
Mr Mellor pointed out, production prob-
lems could result causing delays and
cost increases.
Since the “squeeze” of November,
1960 employers have had relatively
little trouble in staffing their operations
and it could well be that their 1964
plans have underestimated or even com-
pletely overlooked the possibility of a
labor shortage.
Exactly how serious a shortage could
arise will be determined as the weeks
go by and the magnitude of the widely
predicted boom is known.
Share prices have already risen
rapidly and some are rather heavily
overpriced in relation to their past his-
tory one newly listed quarrying com-
pany has seen a substantial market pre-
mium despite the fact that its prospectus
was one of the few in recent months
which did not predict a dividend rate.
In addition, the tangible assets backing
is below the par value of the scrip.
An over-optimistic attitude is usually
fatal to a company and its shareholders.
The soundly based firms with a broad
plan of development and experienced
boards will be the biggest ultimate bene-
ficiaries of the coming boom cycle.
Cargo’s Cake is Iced
HHhe bid from Britain’s Transport De-
A velopment Group Ltd to take over
all the issued capital of Cargo Distribu-
tors Ltd is the icing on a sponge of suc-
cess which shareholders in Rudders and
Green-McCandlish have partaken of
since they merged under the Cargo ban-
ner in mid-1962.
Performance in the 1961-62 year was
not particularly brilliant. In November
of 1962-63 an interest was acquired in
a well-based Adelaide company, Motor
Transport Co. Ltd. H. C. Sleigh already
owned a substantial part of the Adelaide
group’s capital.
The interim report for 1962-63 simply
glowed an interim payout of 6i p.c.,
trading in excess of budget estimates and
a one-for-three new share issue at a
50 p.c. premium.
The full term saw a 121 p.c. distri-
bution and a 167 p.c. jump in profit
to an earning rate of 25 p.c. Just before
the close of the year it was announced
that Motor Transport would be taken
over completely in a share deal and in
August three smaller acquisitions were
made in the freighting and transport
field.
Cargo issued 240,000 ss. shares to
complete the Adelaide deal and H. C.
Sleigh shareholders should be pleased


.kG^ 0
sT"
s*r
*1 »
r f ss
*
fmM
'jiklXS&. jgss s||
h&. &■?
p Jlp 4 ' v *
«
P
CO
II
O
.......
O
<>
• ’ tel V^
o
%w
m.
o
\V
?Ps§B£
<0
4
$
O
.- < • r jjy.
PMS
••••'.'
*
O
O v
vijiM
%
Airtemp
breathes the
air
of success
All over Australia Chrysler Airtemp Air Conditoning is busy
creating a comfortable controlled climate . . . millions of cubic
feet of it. In homes and businesses everywhere, people work
better, feel better, live better because Airtemp means
instant comfort . . . sure success.
If you haven’t done so already, why not take a long look ahead at
Chrysler Air Conditioning with your State Distributor?
He is listed at the extreme right.
CHRYSLER
AIRTEMP
AIR CONDITIONING AND HEATING FOR HOMES. BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY
Q’LD.: Dunn Air Conditioning Ltd., 620 Stanley
St., Woolloongabba. Phone 4 2941.
N.S.W.: Strataflo Pty. Ltd., Cnr. Parramatta Rd. and
Barr St., Camperdown. Phone 51 6645.
A.C.T.: A.C.T. Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd., 14 Yallourn
St., Fyshwick. Phone 9 0081.
VIC.: Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 291 Moray St.,
S. Melbourne. Phone 69 7114. "
S.A.: Chrysler Australia Limited, Airtemp Division,
Finsbury. Phone 45 3661.
W.A.: Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd., 657 Murray St., Perth.
Phone 23 2214.
CM63
AIRTEMP DIVISION
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIA LTD


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Registered 19th December, 1929 )
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
%
o
" 1
Ik!
PER ANNUM 7 & 10 YEARS
4|% PER ANNUM FOR 12 MONTHS
HOW TO APPLY
Applications will be accepted only on the printed
forms attached to the Prospectus. Your copy avail-
able from all Members of Stock Exchanges, over 750
Branches of the A.N.Z. Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches.
40 Collins Place. MELBOURNE Tel.: 63 6121
Branches at
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
HOBART - CANBERRA - DARWIN
Underwriters: lan Potter <t Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane.
848 IN
SYDNEY MOTEL
FOR SALE
One of Sydney’s best known, and successful, motels is for
sale. This motel is close to the heart of Sydney and is
luxuriously appointed. Occupancy rate is consistently high
and reflects the motel’s popularity.
Parties interested in purchasing a well established and
thriving business should write for further details to:
SYDNEY MOTEL
Box AlO4, P. 0., Sydney South
The Bulletin, 252 George Street, Sydney
with the fact that their company must
have received a big proportion of these
which are now worth over 20s. in terms
of the British offer.
Just before the Green - McCandlish-
Rudders merger took place the ss. shares
of the companies were worth 10s. and
11s. respectively. Now they are worth
around double these amounts. In addi-
tion, the original holdings have been in-
creased by one-third through the issue
made at 7s. 6d. So most Cargo share-
holders will have made more than 100
p.c. on their funds in 18 months.
IPEC on the Wing
Tnterstate Parcel Express Co.
(Aust.) Ltd has circularised cus-
tomers that it is considering the estab-
lishment of a door-to-door overnight ser-
vice between all capital cities.
At present it operates a door-to-door
service between adjacent capitals, but
with the use of aircraft it could offer
a similar service for all capitals.
Customers have been asked for their
views on whether they are currently
served adequately by the existing air
freight services, and whether they would
support the setting up of an all-cargo
airline by IPEC.
IPEC already operates a successful
air service to Tasmania, and although
air freight carried by Australian airlines
has steadily declined in the last seven
years, IPEC is of the opinion that this
is because air cargo ranks the lowest
priority, after passenger traffic and mail
and air express.
IPEC anticipates some difficulty in
obtaining the necessary permission to
operate and import suitable aircraft for
mainland air cargo service, due to
pressure on the Government by the
existing airlines.
Boral Takes the Helm
T>atriots will be pleased at the success
of Boral Ltd in obtaining its desired
50 p.c. holding in Mount Lyell Mining
and Railway Co. Ltd.
The Patino group, which launched the
first partial bid on Mount Lyell, with-
drew its offer early in December in
most gentlemanly fashion.
As one of the three companies of the
Patino group was Canadian, the other
two London registered, motives of pre-
serving national heritage were well
appreciated.
In an atmosphere of goodwill, the
managing director of Patino (Mr E. R.
Carter) expressed the view that non-
resident capital should be constructive
in developing Australian resources rather
than simply replacing the local equity.
Now it's up to Boral to develop the
company.


“If your organisation
has to play Host
to many . .
—says the “Chair-man”
; : r .
fl
then perhaps, you should be looking over
our new “HOST” chair.
Pricewise—as the advertising people say—it’s
extremely good value.* Comfortwise,
the contoured seat and deep backrest
leave little to be desired.
Spacewise, the “Host” is a compact chair in
use—very important—and neat stacking,
up to twenty high, is a great help to
busy hosts who have to use the same
space for other purposes.
Strengthwise ... we could go on and on.
We’ll just say it’s a SEBEL chair!
“CHAIR- MAN”
el
b
s
e
HERE ARE JUST A FEW ITEMS FROM THE WIDE RANGE OF SEBEL FURNITURE.
SEBELS (AUST.) LTD., 96 Canterbury Road, Bankstown, N.S.W.
SEBEL SALES LTD., 151 Dandenong Road, Windsor, S.l, Vic.
SEBEL SALES LTD., 208 Wharf Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
EVANS AGENCIES LTD., 9 Lindes Lane, Adelaide, South Australia.
CARLYLE & CO. (1959) PTY. LTD., 1-9 Milligan Street, Perth, W.A.
NU SALES DISTRIBUTORS, Merino Street, Launceston, Tasmania.
Phone 70-0771.
Phone 51-7063.
Phone 2-6963.
Phone W 1038.
Phone 21-9331.
Phone 4-9886.
5C8.84
GTV 9 Profit
¥>roprietor of the Melbourne tele-
vision station GTV 9, General Tele-
vision Corporation Pty Ltd, earned 8 p.c.
less net of minority interest and tax and
depreciation in the year to June 30,
1963.
The net earnings were £530,278 as
against £577,304 in 1961-62. The return
on capital was 32.8 p.c., and dividend
20 p.c.
Tax provision rose from £469,380
to £575,125, while depreciation charged
was £147,998, compared with £223,142
the year before.
The subsidiary, operating radio sta-
tion 3AK, earned £3258 compared with
£20,954 the previous year, but profit
of the film subsidiary, Fanfare Films
Pty Ltd, was approximately the same at
£11,901.
GTV’s capital of £1,012,000 is 62 p.c.
held by Television Corporation Ltd, an
associate of Sydney’s Consolidated Press.
Melbourne’s David Syme and Co. Ltd
is second largest shareholder.


ACI Should Increase Sales in the Current Year
A Higher Dividend is an Early Prospect
By ROGER RANDERSON
Otirrings in the market already sug-
gest that investors, overseas as well
as local, will this, year find more in ACI
to attract them than they did last year,
when the, price of the £1 share showed a
slight fall from 675. 6d. to 635. 9d. over
the 12 months.
Australian Consolidated Industries,
with shareholders’ funds exceeding £46
million, operates through about 50 sub-
sidiaries and associated companies, and
it is among the elite of Australia’s power-
ful and progressive industrial groups.
Factories extend to Christchurch and
Auckland (New Zealand), Singapore,
Kuala Lumpur and Bangkok.
A vast range of products caters for
the needs of consumers, producers and
builders. They include bottles and other
glass containers, incandescent lamps,
building glass and glassware of all kinds.
But, in addition, the group supplies cor-
rugated paper and cartons, plastic pip-
ing, food containers and wall-boards, tile
and sheet vinyl floor coverings. Tools,
fans and the heaviest steel fabrications
are also supplied. More recently fibre
glass products and refractories have be-
gun to flow from its works.
No doubt lack of enthusiasm for this
investment in 1963 arose largely from
the belief that further benefits mu!st be
long-delayed, because the company had
made a one-for-two bonus issue fol-
lowed by a one-for-five cash issue at
30s. during the 1961-62 year and
later disclosed a fall in profit for that
year.
Continuous expansion had led to the
following impressive list of issues in the
post-war period:
October, 1948: Cash 1:10 at 495.
March, 1950: Bonus 4:25.
May, 1950: Cash 1:5 at par.
August, 1951: Cash 2:15 at 40s.
July, 1952: Cash 1:10 at 275. 6d.
August, 1955: Cash 1:6 at 275. 6d.
October, 1959: Bonus 1:6.
October, 1961: Bonus 1:2.
November, 1961: Cash 1:5 at 30s.
There has been no pause in continu-
ing efforts to keep technology at the
level of the world's best and to diversify
the range of the group’s products; but,
after all, it is only natural to expect an
interval between issues.
What the market appears to have over-
looked, however, is that the one-for-
two bonus issue of 1961 partook of the
nature of an Irishman’s rise In this
respect it differed from the bonus issues
in earlier years.
Shareholders have yet to receive tan-
gible benefitjxom the last bonus issue.
It \Vas followed by a reduction in the
rate of dividend from I2i to 8i p.c.
exactly proportional to the increase in
holdings of shares so that a share-
holder’s dividend receipts were un-
affected.
Since ACI had regularly paid a 12i
p.c. dividend on ordinary shares in each
of the preceding seven years, early re-
covery towards this level would not be
surprising, especially in view of the sur-
plus of earnings over dividend payments,
or “dividend cover.”
It is true that the dividend yield of
less than 2.6 p.c. is low at present
market prices, although the earnings
yield of about 5.3 p.c. is sufficient to
satisfy patient and experienced investors.
The immediate investment attraction
lies in the fact that the yield is based
on a low (and untidy) dividend rate that
could soon be increased.
w'ho remember ACl’s successful
A career, with an unbroken dividend
record since 1922, will take the longer
view. At about 655. for the £1 share
they acquire assets at book value of
about 40s. 3d., valued extremely con-
servatively. In other w'ords, they pay
about 325. in the £ for their share of
the company's assets.
For the goodwill of the business pur-
chasers at the present price pay less than
eight times last year's earnings.
What light is thrown on the company’s
position by accounts for the year ended
June 30, 1963, which w'ere presented
last September, and w'hich are dissected
in the table below?
ACI staged a complete recovery in
earnings after the dip during 1961-62,
although the adjusted earning rate on
increased capital has yet to show im-
provement in the accounts.
Expansion continued to proceed at
a rapid pace. The chairman, Mr J. A.
Forrest, informed shareholders that the
amount of £7,525,000 had been spent
on fixed assets during 1962-63.
In addition, the group increased its
holding of shares in unlisted companies
by £1,210,134.
Stocks also increased by £1,458,514,
w'hich Mr Forrest explained as due partly
to “a growing tendency to rely more on
the manufacturer as a bulk stockist.”
Reduced tax provisions point to bene-
fits from the investment allowance, and
not declining earnings.
Considering the rapid replacement of
substantial fixed assets, the chairman’s
reference to the “profit squeeze,” which
results from more capital being needed
to return the same income as formerly,
would have put many intending investors
off.
TTowever, ACI always states its profits
very conservatively.
In 1962-63, for example, after pro-
viding £2,958,812 for depreciation (up
£400,373), the company also provided
£635,000 (up £47,000) for increased cost
of replacing fixed assets.
Moreover, it provided £400.000 (down
£38,000) to cover fluctuations in stock
values, although stocks already appear
in the books at “the lower of cost or
market value”.
Such amounts, including also £26,995
“special” contribution to the superannua-
tion fund, and £lOO,OOO transfer to in-
ternal insurance funds have been added
back to arrive at adjusted profit in the
table below.
ACI has a fine investment portfolio, in-
cluding large holdings in CSR, ICIANZ,
and Associated Pulp. Their book value
increased by £1,309,623 in 1962-63 to
£5,216,277, while £1,951,073 should be
added for market appreciation of listed
securities by June of last year, before
the recent marked increase in share
prices.
Income from investments in 1962-63,
however, was £207,626 lower at
£463,526. which is presumably explained
by disposal of part of the Malayan busi-
ness to local shareholders and New Zea-
land acquisitions requiring development.
Heavy capital expenditure is likely to
continue, especially because of plans
to convert by 1965 the Alexandria plant
to the more modern process for sheet
and decorative rolled glass, which is in
operation at the new Dandenong works.
Towards this expenditure, however,
ACI presumably will continue to rely
on a large retained cash flow, which in
1962-63 aggregated about £6 million.
The company’s virtual independence
from outside borrowings is one of the
features of its strength and stability.
A substantial rise in earnings is there-
fore necessary if better dividends are to
be paid.
There are many reasons why such
an improvement in earnings can be ex-
pected in the current year, which ends
on June 30.
Trading conditions are far better than


«»«
**«*
»*«#«
**♦*
n
PJBO paipuri^
K « SI 2 K K B K B 61 * 11 St & M El U U K 6 I
i 6 6 o £ 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 5 6 6 6 6 6 £ i
Hll U B S!l5 JS -,s >9 IS IS IS X IS K IS K St« K B IS K 61 »T 11 91 S> » Cl
5 6 4 i i 6 6 6 6 6 £ 6 6 6 ( 6 ( 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 4 6 6 6 6
6 6 6 |
6 it .o 6
5 6 616 6
6 5 6 6
laaljo-idißOßb l
! ! I
ojs s Q s 9 1 5 9 9 9 9 jj 9
9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 IS 9 9 9 9 9
919.9 9
9 9 919 9 9 9 9 9
I
9 9 9 9
919 9 ; 9 9 9 9 9
J . > v I
1 |
I II
E|6££|6|££|£l££££££
£ll it 1
£l££t££££
i I
£££££££££££££££
£ £ £ ££
£6 £ £ £
£ £ £ £ £
£ £ £ i £ £
30NV1VQ xicfis
i 1
as 6i Jtjti K s;
010 ttl3 9 0 If.
rcicocez
olio
nt it « o n a it a u *: a « st v. n ti oi s e i
lo no 0 lIP 0 lie lIP c |0 0 II
re re is os » k z* 9» s» r-j
0 0 0 ■ lilt
Hill
cile
iQOOOIOOOOO
3 0 0 0
0100
G:. *- J
*3O * * *>*-o "eooeo > *30330 fe tosdd
taao
m
ijssreiui
3
4
or perforated tape
produced automatically from Burroughs F Series Accounting Machines
This is the most versatile business machine. It changes accounting functions
at the turn of a knob. With attachments it will automatically punch cards or per-
forate tape at the same time as it prints the usual accounting records.
Easy to operate, the Punch Card or Punch Tape Control are optional extras.
Either will store all data, both words and numerals. Your operator does not need
re-training. Your accounting set-up remains precisely as it is.
Cards or tape may be processed by the Computer Service Bureau of your choice.
Thus you can enjoy the advantages of electronic data processing at minimum cost.
Burroughs F 1000 series Alphanumeric
Accounting Machines with a variety of features
and up to nineteen accumulating memory units.
Burroughs is the machine to grow with...
For complete information
on its application to your business,
simply call the Burroughs man
at the nearest Branch Office or write to
Burroughs Ltd., 40 Millers Street,
North Sydney, N.S.W. Phone 92-0851
fiurrouflhs business machines can be readily converted to Decimal Currency
8U174D


BALANCE SHEET AND PROFIT SUMMARIES (£’000)
June 30
1961
1962
1963
Current assets
22,007
23,204 (+ 1197)
24,736 (+ 1532)
Less current liabilities
9401
8913 (- 488)
8983 (+ 70)
Working capital
12,606
14,291 (+ 1685)
15,753 (+ 1462)
Investments
4453
3907 (- 546)
5216 (+ 1309)
Net fixed assets
22,363
31,487 (+ 9124)
36,045 (+ 4558)
Licences, patents, etc
185
184 (- 1)
193 (+ 9)
Goodwill
2491
2491 —
2486 (- 5)
42,098
52,360 (+10,262)
59,693 (+ 7333)
Represented by
Provisions
(a) Depreciation
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
(b) Stock values
2907
3384
3744
(c) Goodwill
2491
2491
2486
(d) Furnace repairs ....
883
645
682
(e) Income tax (excess)
2206
2393
1938
(f) Long service, superannuation
627
601
729
(g) Contingencies
760
606
625
9874
10,120 (+ 246)
10,204 (+ 84)
Mortgages abroad
254
315 (+ 61)
302 (- 13)
Minority interests
466
1165 (+ 699)
3003 (+ 1838)
Preference (9%) capital ....
175
175 —
175 —
Ordinary capital
12,648
20,936 (+ 8288)
22,839 (+ 1903)
Reserves
18,681
19,649 (+ 968)
23,171 (+ 3522)
42,098
52,360 (+10,262)
59,693 (+ 7333)
Depreciation
2079
2558
2959
Income tax
3094
2816
2672
Stated profit
2645
2292
2695
Other provisions
1090
1151
1162
Adjusted profit
3735
3443
3857
Dividends
1599
1681
1919
Retained earnings
2136
1762
1938
Ordinary dividend rate
12i%
8-1/3%
8-1/3 %
Earning rate on ordinary
capital
used
29.4%
17%
16.8%
High price
116/6
75/-
70/-
Low price
66/3
59/-
58/9
Last sale price (9/1/64)
64/-
Dividend yield
. 2.6%
Earnings yield
5.3%
Price/earnings ratio
19
FOR ALL FINANCE
ALSO
FACTORING-LEASING
k A a. M . , t L kA&
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE CORPORATION LIMITED
OFFICES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
A 3
they were in 1962-63, with increased
demands coming from consumers, home
builders, public works and producers
generally.
“Good things come in glass.” The
satisfactory results from this advertising
campaign, coupled with innovations such
as “glass cans”, no-return soft-drink
bottles, lightweight jam containers, metal
and plastic closures, are mentioned in
the annual report.
A reversion to glass packaging seems
to be occurring in Australia, as it is in
the United States.
Shareholders Clear
as MUD
Shareholders in Mutual Underwriting
and Development Ltd can breathe
easy now that directors have decided to
accept a takeover offer of 3s. lid. cash
for each ss. share the third bid made
for the Melbourne-based financier, mer-
chant banker and investor in 12 weeks.
This sorry affair started in early Oc-
tober when directors said they were
seeking a takeover approach, or else the
company would be wound up and pro-
ceeds distributed to shareholders.
The first offer came at the end of the
month. It was a one-for-two share ex-
change b ; d from Commercial Guarantee
of Sydney worth about 3s. 3d. on the
then current price for Commercial scrip
of around 6s. 6d.
MUD directors rejected the bid as
“inadequate” and, in the annual report
issued early in December, promised
shareholders an estimated return of 4s.
over an 18-month period through selling
the business as an entity and realising
the assets. This seemed rather unsatis-
factory when they could have collected
3s. 3d. from the first offer in a matter
of a few weeks.
Matters brightened somewhat on
Christmas Eve when Fairway Holdings, a
Canberra investment and holding com-
pany run by two gentlemen from the
Leighton Contractors board, offered
3s. Bd. cash for each unit. But directors
turned the bid down on January 3. Un-
daunted, Fairway offered 3s. lid. cash
which MUD's directors promptly ac-
cepted.
So the air has been cleared for MUD
holders. They now await their cheques
which will undoubtedly fill some of the
holes that Christmas made in their bank
accounts.
This will not be much consolation for
those who paid up to Bs. lid. for the
scrip just after it was listed in early
1960 nor for the original shareholders,
but many lucky investors bought in
during 1962 and 1963 when prices went
as low as Is. lid.
The board’s determination to get a
reasonable price for the shares has
finally paid off.
The new Dandenong works should be
over its teething troubles, and the in-
creased automation of this and other
plants should be yielding greater output
at lower cost.
The new “Gerflex” vinyl floor cover-
ings, high grade refractories, and fibre
glass insulating material should be win-
ning larger markets.
All told, ACI seems to be a stock
to lay in, because the company’s past
achievements are by no means ended,
and continued progress in the future
could be equally rewarding to investors.


HELP
LEGACY
sECURITY ANALYSIS
Dickson Primer Set for a Rise
Reorganisation Nearly Over; More Buoyant Conditions
/\n December 20, Dickson Primer’s
shares changed hands at 11s. 6d.
and this was the first occasion on which
they had been sold at more than 11s.
since the latter part of May last year.
The recovery in building which has been
so widely forecast may well be the reason
for this upward movement and if the
extent of the upward movement is as
marked as in other “building” stocks the
shares could easily rise to 14s. At this
level they would show a dividend yield
of 4i p.c., which seems highly satisfactory
when one considers that Concrete In-
dustries is yielding only 3i p.c. after
cutting its dividend by 50 p.c.
There can be little doubt that Dickson
Primer’s share price has been subjected
to a number of downward pressures.
Perhaps the most direct influence has
been the large parcel that has been sold
on the market over the last 12 months.
If this pressure is now removed, then
there is every possibility of a sustained
upward movement.
There have been several indirect
factors, including losses in television
servicing, changes in the cement franchise
and the failure of the application for a
television licence.
The last two are matters of fact.
Television Era did not get the third
licence in the Sydney area. The cement
franchise is rather different because, on
the whole, it seems likely that the change
will be in Dickson Primer’s favor.
HThe switch from Southern Portland to
Kandos may not make very much
difference in New South Wales as the
production is probably about the same,
but it is very interesting to note Dickson
Primer (Vic.) Pty Ltd is now associated
actively with the distribution of cement
in Victoria and has been appointed a
member of the Cement Distribution
Conference.
By the end of 1963/64 production
capacity in Victoria will be more than
double what it was in 1960/61 and the
total production of both States will have
increased by 75 p.c. It can therefore
be expected that a fairly substantial in-
crease in profit will be made by the sub-
sidiaries engaged in cement distribution.
Dickson Primer’s activities as a
merchant have always been centred
mainly upon the distribution of building
materials. For example, one subsidiary
is the New South Wales’ distributor of
CSR’s building materials division pro-
ducts. Within the group there are also
distributors of timber and builders’ hard-
ware as well as various items of
furnishing, kitchenware, etc. It can be
imagined that the demand for all these
products will pick up from now on.
The problem child of the group
certainly seems to have been the tele-
vision servicing subsidiary. The year
1962/63, with its abnormally wet
weather, would not have been a very
satisfactory one for any television
servicing group. It seems that moisture
adds to the number of faults which can
develop in a television set, thereby in-
creasing the number of calls. As most
servicing is done under contract, any
increase in calls will normally produce
a decrease in profit. The television
servicing division also suffered from the
Reid Murray failure and has found it
necessary to make a provision of £86,000
against doubtful debts.
JThtE manufacturing activities of Dick-
son Primer have been expanded by
the acquisition of Essantee Switchgear
Pty Ltd. Previously manufacturing had
been confined mainly to the Henry Lane
group which produced builders’ hard-
ware, locks for General Motors-Holden’s
and the Bassick castor. Colonial Equip-
ment Pty Ltd produced small pressed
metal and mica products and Ezi-built
Ltd produced a range of children’s toys,
but these two operations were relatively
small and together employed fewer than
100 people.
The Essantee operation will no doubt
fit in well with the agency arrangements
which Dickson Primer and Co. Pty Ltd
has had for some time with a number
of overseas companies.
Generally, therefore, the picture looks
quite bright for 1963/64, but in view
of the statement by the chairman that
“the current financial year will also be
bearing some expenses of reorganisation
. . it may well be that no spectacular
increase in net profit will occur. How-
ever, with the increase in ordinary capital
following the conversion of the notes on
June 30 last, the 13 p.c. dividend will
require £142,362 in 1963/64.
The interest charge which amounted
to £74,834 in 1962/63 will be reduced
by about £7,310 as a result of the con-
version. This means that if profits are at
exactly the same level as 1962/63,
earnings for 1963/64 will be approxi-
mately £160,000 and will be about 121
p.c. in excess of the 13 p.c. dividend
requirement.
While I would hesitate to forecast
any increase in the rate for 1963/64, it
seems unlikely that any further re-
duction will occur, and therefore there
seems to be no reason why the rate
should not now be regarded as the
minimum.
From 1952 to 1962, dividend income
had been increasing at an average annual
compound rate of about 6 p.c. per
annum, and in view of this record it does
not seem unreasonable to suggest that
the shares today should sell to show a
yield of 5 p.c. or even less.
Tn common with many other com-
panies which expanded by take-overs
during the 1960 boom, Dickson Primer
has had to undertake an extended period
of consolidation. During this con-
solidation disclosed earnings have shown
a tendency to decline, particularly as
business conditions generally have been
operating against increased profitability.
With the reorganisation nearly complete
and a return to more buoyant conditions,
one can look for a return to increasing
per share earnings and dividends.
Finally, it seems that the price of the
shares touched bottom over the three-
month period from August to October
inclusive, and there is now fairly strong
evidence that they will move upwards.
At prices of 12s. 6d. or less they seem
good buying both for relatively short-
term capital appreciation and for long-
term holding for dividend income.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
Year to
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 611 660 2114 2719 2<‘52
Current liabilities 444 543 1467 1769 1383
Net working
capital 167 117 647 95' |A '9
Fixed assets 303 486 1341 2026 2001
Investments 148 210 84 177 159
Intangibles 180 109 7 25
Total capital 798 922 2079 3178 3229
Represented by:
Loan capital 51 118 471 981 938
Minority interests 1 56
Convertible notes 72 72 91 91
Ordinary capital 286 286 689 785 1095
Reserves 389 446 827 1265 1196
Depreciation 38 63 132 159 156
Tax 28 41 92 78 71
Minority interests 8 —■
Earnings 54 78 143 149 157
Dividend 34 43 102 111 130
Surplus 20 35 41 38 27
Earnings per share
(shillings) (a) 0.74 1.05 0.91 0.86 0.78
Dividend per share
(shillings) (a) 0.56 0.70 0.70 0.70 0.65
Earnings yield
% (b) 6.2 8.0 5.7 5.6 7.5
Dividend yield
% (b) 4.7 5.3 4.6 6.0 6.2
(a) Adjusted for new issues.
(b) Based on last sale in month accounts presented.


MSM
/
imm’*
,
II
<- ? -,
■
mM
::
, <3
>/ if
-
•" s
is
vA
'
•v
m
m
4c-..
Well over 400,000 people travel with JAMIE McPHEETERS - . .
Every Monday night over a third of Sydney’s TV sets are tuned to follow a rather mixed
up doctor father and his son on their search for the pot-o-gold. If you’re looking for, a
real pot-o-gold audience-wise, then there’s a slot for you and your product on the nation’s
number one station.
PEOPLE ARE SOLD ON
f,.
I
KEY STATION NATIONAL TELEVISION NETWORK
Studio & Transmitter: Artarmon Rd., Willoughby. 43-0444.
Sales: Sydney— Ist Floor, Cricket House, George St. 27-2881. Melbourne— 247 Collins St 63-8336
TCN


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Whale Ind. for a Takeover?
Pastoral Companies Cast Eyes On It
/Cessation of whaling activities by
Whale Industries Ltd at the close
of the 1962 season brought to an end
an activity on the Australian east coast
which began soon after the first settle-
ment in 1788. And in the words of the
chairman (Mr R. Crichton-Brown) there
is little likelihood of a resumption before
the end of the century.
For a little more than 10 years, the
company conducted a highly successful
and profitable operation from Tanga-
looma, on Moreton Island in southern
Queensland. But towards the end of the
decade it became more and more diffi-
cult to catch the allotted quota of whales,
despite the use of three catchers and
eventually a spotter plane.
There were several scientific explana-
tions for this, but the principal cause
appeared to be heavy overfishing of
humpback whales in the Antarctic.
In the 1961 season, the company
failed to take its full quota and those
caught appeared to be smaller and
younger than usual.
The following year, operations were
suspended after 49 days when it became
obvious that the quota could not be
taken and arrangements were made to
sell the whaling assets.
This left the only activity the operation
of Gurley Station, near Moree in north-
ern New South Wales.
The movement in profit and dividends
during the company’s existence illustrates
the changes in whaling operations. From
an initial 6 p.c. paid in 1952, the dividend
rate was rapidly raised to a well-covered
20 p.c., paid for each of the six years
to 1960. But in the following year,
dividend was slashed to 7i p.c. when
earnings slumped and in the two latest
years no distribution has been made.
The 1962 year saw a deficit of
£220,541 due to the heavy operating costs
of the catcher fleet and the whaling
station, compared with profits of £31,799
in the previous year and £172,193 in
1959-60.
All whaling assets were sold during
the 1963 year and the loss incurred was
offset against a revaluation of the Gur-
ley station which was written up by
£296,664.
Operations for this year resulted in a
trading profit of £5027, equal to only
0.67 p.c. on capital. But these figures
did not include results of the 1963 wool
clip, which was sold in late October, or
of the wheat harvest.
With the proposed change of balance
date from September 30 to June 30,
both of these will be included in the
1963-64 results.
The wheat harvest, expected to exceed
300,000 bushels, should bring in a gross
£150,000 while the wool clip should
realise about £50,000.
On paid up capital of £749,000 this is
a gross earning rate of about 26 p.c. sub-
ject to operating costs and depreciation.
No tax would be required because of past
losses.
The plan is to extend the present
17,000 acres of farming land to about
25,000 acres or more of the 35,000 acres
on the station and reduce the number
of sheep carried.
This means that a greater dependence
will be placed on the grain harvest, but
whether this would provide sufficient
income to pay more than a nominal divi-
dend has yet to be demonstrated particu-
larly with the uncertainty of weather
and overseas prices.
However, the company must be con-
sidered a prime takeover prospect.
Several large pastoral groups have in
recent months demonstrated tfieir desire
to move more solidly into this particular
field, and with a market value of ss.
a ss. share compared with an assets
backing of ss. 7d. a share an offer would
not surprise.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
Sept. 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 482 596 583 329 56
Less current
liabilities 312 354 455 469 141
Working capital 170 242 128 dr. 140 dr.Bs
Fixed assets 772 722 772 849 930
Intangibles 32
974 964 900 709 845
Represented by:
Capital 535 (a>749 749 749 749
Reserves 439 215 151 dr.2o 96
Outside
shareholders dr.2o
_ 974 964 900 709 845
Depreciation 70 80 80 76 7
Taxation 105 100 37 7
Net profit 172 172 32 dr.221 5
From reserves —- 183 240
Dividend 107 150 56
Reconstruction
losses 210
Surplus 65 22 35
Dividend p.c. 20 20 7\
Earnings p.c. 32.1 23.0 4.3 0.7
Dividend yield (b) 6.1 9.5 6.0
High price (c) 23/6 18/1J 13/8 7/6 4/6
Low price (c) 9/4 9/9 6/- 2/3 2/1
(a) After 2-5 bonus.
(b) End of December, month accounts presented.
(c) Calendar year.
SPEEDO HOLDINGS LTD
Sales Up But Profit Down
HPhe elasticity of the textile and fashion
goods industries was demonstrated
this last year by Speedo Holdings Ltd.
Although one of the most constant of
garment makers, Speedo has not had
an easy time since the Government’s
removal of import restrictions in Febru-
ary, 1960, followed nine months later
by credit restrictions.
Retailers were beset by doubts, and
Speedo sales dropped to £1,340,000 in
1960-61 from their previous levels of
well over £1.4 million. In the two
following years sales picked up, but at
the expense of profit margins.
A much greater degree of competition
now prevails. The net result of trading
for the latest year to June was a drop in
profit from £58,337 to £49,272, equal
to only 12.0 p.c. on capital unchanged
since the one-for-five bonus of March,
1961. The 12i p.c. dividend paid since
the bonus was in the last term cut to
lli p.c.
Sales rose 2 p.c. in 1962-63, but the
16 p.c. profit fall was an indirect result
of competitors’ price-cutting. Speedo’s
answer was a strong advertising cam-
paign, supported by prompt delivery of
merchandise to retail stores. This re-
quired a build-up in stocks of about
£20,000 to £531,742, after directors
made certain write-downs on fashion
merchandise.
The Reid Murray group was largely
responsible for bad debts of over
£6,000.
Speedo’s knitting mill in the Sydney
suburb of Artarmon (opened in Febru-
ary, 1957) winds, twists and knits from


woollen and cotton yarns, and makes up
and finishes men’s wear. Speedo also
makes a large range of garments from
woven piecegoods purchased from out-
side sources.
The company has held the exclusive
Australian manufacturing rights of
Jockey brand underwear from Cooper
Inc. of USA since 1938. The agree-
ment was renewed in 1962-63 for a
further ten years.
Of more recent origin is the agreement
with White Stag of Portland, USA, who
act as sole US distributors of Speedo
swimming costumes, while Speedo makes
White Stag ski-wear in Australia.
Speedo has obtained considerable tax
benefits from its expenditure to obtain
export sales. It sells to numerous coun-
tries in the East and the Americas, and
in the year under review added Great
Britain to its markets.
White Stag is serviced by a weekly
stock replacement by air. Reports are
that White Stag sales are nearly double
those for the same period last year.
In New Zealand, Lane, Walker, Rud-
kin Ltd will make Speedo racing swim-
wear under licence.
Group sales in the first two months of
this financial year were slightly ahead
of last year, while advance summer range
bookings show a satisfactory increase,
directors said in their annual report.
Present price of Bs. 9d. to return 6.4
p.c. reflects a certain amount of disap-
pointment felt by investors at the profit
fall and dividend cut. It compares with
a top price last year of 12s. If income
is important, and a certain amount of
risk can be accepted, Speedo shares are
a reasonable buy. But no great growth
can be anticipated.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 629 673 774 765 796
Less current
liabilities 382 450 533 560 591
Working capital 247 223 241 205 205
Investments 36 15 5 20
Fixed assets 489 568 597 601 576
772 791 853 811 801
Loan capital 242 217 163 110 100
Preference capital 80 80 100 100 100
Ordinary capital 250 250 360 360 360
Reserves 200 244 230 241 241
772 791 853 811 801
Sales 1401 1471 1340 1415 1443
Depreciation 28 30 28 30 29
Taxation 41 54 37 16 5
Net profit 68 82 55 58 49
Net profit for ords. 63 77 49 52 43
Dividend 31 38 41 45 41
Surplus 32 39 8 7 2
Earning rate 25.4 30.8 15.1 14.5 12.0
Dividend rate 12J 15 12J 12J lli
Dividend yield (a) 5.5 4.9 6.1 4.4 6.4
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 8.9 10.0 13.5 15.6 13.0
High price (b) 11/1 12/3 19/6 19/- 15/6
Low price (b) 7/3 8/3 12/- 10/2 10/9
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
ERNEST HILLER HOLDINGS LTD
Market Unconvinced by Recovery
the 1962-63 year, Ernest Hiller
Holdings Ltd turned in its best re-
sult since listing, but because of the
rapid increase in capital, earning rate is
not spectacular.
The company floated in early 1957
with an issue of 200,000 ss. shares at
par, lifting paid-up capital to £150,000.
It acquired all the issued capital of
Ernest Hiller Apparel Pty, which began
making men’s sports coats in 1947 and
later moved into the field of men’s suits.
Capital growth since has been rapid
with share issues at par, on a cne-for-two
basis in 1958 and again in 1960.
Late in 1960, the company linked with
the US Palm Beach Co., the US com-
pany taking a share interest in Ernest
Hiller in exchange for manufacturing
rights, technical know-how and specially
designed machinery.
The share interest was granted in the
form of an option to take up at par a
25 p.c. interest in Ernest Hiller on or
before July 1, 1965. At June 30 last, the
option had been exercised over 1,573,000
shares, with 292,700 shares still out-
standing.
These issues had the effect of lifting
paid-up capital at June 30 last to
£.376,825.
Profit has risen strongly during the
past two years, more than recovering the
setback in 1960-61 when a forced clear-
ance of stocks adversely affected earnings.
Result for the latest year was £.38,410,
equal to 10.2 p.c. on capital, and com-
pared with £14,930 (4.3 p.c.) earned in
the 1960-61 period.
After two years of 12i p.c. divi-
dends in 1959 and 1960, the payout was
cut to 7i p.c. the following year and then
to 6 p.c. in 1962. In both the latter years,
earnings failed to cover the dividend pay-
out and reserves were drawn on to meet
the difference. But last year, following
the strong improvement, payout was re-
stored to a well covered 7i p.c.
The latest accounts show a strong
liquid position although stocks appear
rather high at £357,064. However,
this increase was matched by a lift in
trade debtors from £125,240 to
£155,890, indicating improved business.
In the same period, bank overdraft
was cut from £99,892 to £56,429, due
probably to the raising of £43,000 in
unsecured deposits and an increase in
sundry debtors. Mortgage loans are
also up by about £6BOO to £73,600.
The investment in plant and the
latest machinery continues to grow, and
at June 30 appeared in the books at
£127,572.
The reserve position is not particularly
strong due to the drain of meeting the
1961 and 1962 dividends, and at last
balance date stood at £39,382, including
a capital element of £18,331, to give a
backing of ss. 6d. for each ss. share.
The current financial year started on
a reasonably strong note, the order
level giving indications of more progress.
But the local market has still not excused
the company for its slip three years ago
and is still pricing the shares around par.
However, under the 1960 agreement, the
Palm Beach Co. of the US took up
66,400 shares at par in December,
bringing paid capital to £393,425. It is
entitled to take up one-third of all shares
issued, and intimated in December that
it intends to take up further Hiller issues
from time to time.
As men’s suitings are not subject to
the same violent fluctuations as women’s
fashions, the short-term outlook for the
company appears good. The Australian
market, however, has still to be convinced
of the long-term outlook.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 336 395 463 414 &H 3
Less current
liabilities 263 209 279 243 528
Working capital 73 186 184 171 190
Fixed assets 250 250 314 336 345
323 436 498 507 535
Represented by:
Capital 225 337 349 361 377
Capital reserves 1 1 18 18 18
Other reserves 19 22 11 11 21
Loan funds 58 56 70 67 73
Outside share-
holders 20 20 50 50 46
323 436 498 507 535
Depreciation 4 6 7 8
Taxation 18 23 6 14 26
Net profit 32 36 15 22 38
Dividends 28 30 26 22 28
Surplus 4 6 10
Dividend p.c. 12J 12J 7\ 6 7\
Earning p.c. 14.2 14.9 4.3 6.0 10.2
Dividend yield (a) 7.1 6.0 6.8 5.7 7.0
High price (b) 9/6 12/3 8/10 5/7 6/-
Low price (b) 7/- 8/3 4/6 4/3 4/3
(a) End of September, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.


LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
lANCE GRAHAM
Member oj the Sydney Stock Exchange
56 HUNTER STREET
SYDNEY
Telephones 28-5721
Telegrams: Lagram, Sydney
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH:
2 Denham Street Phone 6039
Speculator’s Diary
“Y°u must rest,” said the Medicine
A Man. These three little words
have not been hard to take. I’ve spent
a lot of time reading the papers, women’s
magazines, and even a book on share
charting. Who is this Mary Broker?
Judging by the social columns it’s obvious
that many brokers —or at least their
wives—have already started their pros-
perous New Year.
What really interested me was cigarette
shares. When word began to filter
through about the US Surgeon-General’s
report, I quickly weighed up the vulner-
ability of the three listed tobacco stocks
-—British Tobacco, Rothmans and Philip
Morris. All were near their high points
in the past year.
In the past Rothmans’ shares have
proved to be the most volatile and also
the most freely traded. So, stubbing my
cigarette on the dining-room table, I
promptly rang my broker on the Tuesday
and asked him to short 500. They were
sold at 375. 9d. Within 24 hours they’d
fallen to 345. and I was tempted to buy
back. But, being greedy, I decided to
wait until the full impact of the report
hit the market.
Elsewhere on the market this week I
bought W. R. Carpenter President
Soekarno’s not going to frighten me—
and also some Pioneer Concrete.
Actually my main reason for buying
W. R. Carpenter was simply that its
shares are now ex the one-for-four
bonus. Recent experience indicates that
the popular shares are good buying on
an ex-bonus basis. Publishers have risen
from 30s. to 40s. since their bonus,
Dunlop from 40s. to 485., Gibson &
Howes from 635. to 725. and Herald
& Weekly Times from 50s. to 565.
already. If this is any guide it should
not be long before Carpenters are
moving up into the high thirties again.
In addition Carpenters should be
earning increasing profits from its island
trading and plantation interests, par-
ticularly in Fiji where the sugar boom
must be rubbing off on its subsidiaries.
Then there are Carpenter’s enormous
Australian investments. Its holdings in
Woolworths and Ansett alone have
appreciated by more than £1.5 million
in the past year.
Pioneer Concrete is another company
headed for a prosperous New Year. Its
increased profit in 1962-63 was quite an
achievement. What’s more my man
Hobbs tells me that up in Hong Kong
the place is rapidly becoming a con-
crete colony with the familiar green
Pioneer rickshaws in every street. That
is, if they are lucky enough to get water
to mix the concrete with.
Before buying anything else, I thought
it wise to take advantage of last week’s
buoyant market to square my account.
So I sold ISAS, William Adams notes
and Mid Eastern.
Profit on ISAS was £29 while on
William Adams it was £4O, a fair profit
for a one-month deal. The Mid Eastern
story was not so happy—a loss of £44.
Maybe they can get a few tips from
Santos on this oil drilling business.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
500 Rothmans, 37/9 £931
400 ISAS, 20/3 £396
2000 Mid Eastern, 2/3 £216
200 W. Adams notes, 55/- £542
BOUGHT
300 W. R. Carpenter, 32/6 £496
400 Pioneer Concrete, 17/6 £357
This left me with a mammoth £877
credit in the account.
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
2000 Hanimex 23/5/62 9/6 13/9
1000 Aeron 14/8/63 7/9 7/3
500 Elders GM 12/9/63 22/- 26/9
200 Gibson & Howes 2/10/63 57/- 72/6
400 Larke 17/10/63 11/- 12/-
500 Hestia 23/10/63 9/6 8/11
2000 ODE 29/10/63 5/6 6/3
1000 Mobile Equip. 30/10/63 8/4 9/-
800 Tableland Tin 5/11/63 22/- 27/-
1000 Steamship, new 11/11/63 11/9 14/-
400 Mol leys 12/11/63 27/3 29/-
200 Tutt Bryant £1
notes 22/11/63 29/3 31/9
1000 Ansett 2/12/63 7/7 8/6
500 Country Television 3/12/63 12/- 13/6
1000 R. & N. Statham 11/12/63 10/9 11/6
200 AWA 20/12/63 26/3 27/-
400 O'Donnell Griffin 23/12/63 21/6 23/6
400 Stocks & Holdings 23/12/63 15/9 16/6
300 W. R. Carpenter 8/1/63 32/6 32/6
400 Pioneer Concrete 9/1/63 17/6 17/5
500 Rothmans (short) 7/1/63 37/9 35/-
Shell Moves House
Victorian State Parliament has
passed a Bill through both Houses
giving permission to the Shell Company
of Australia Ltd to transfer its official
headquarters from Britain to Victoria.
The company distributes and markets
Shell products throughout Australia and
the Territory of Papua and New Guinea.
Shell is now waiting for a similar Bill
to be passed in the UK Parliament—the
UK Treasury has already consented to
the transfer of central management and
control and the Bill is necessary to enable
actual incorporation in Victoria.
The firm was formed in 1905 and,
although being the key member of the
group, is the only one without local
incorporation. The other members are
Shell Chemical (Aust.) Pty Ltd, Shell
Refining (Aust.) Pty Ltd and Neptune
Oil Co. Pty Ltd, a retail outlet.
In 1905 it was known as the British
Imperial Oil Co. Ltd and the present
name was adopted in 1927. Before 1905
the world-wide group operated in Aus-
tralia through Shell Transport & Trading.
Although ultimate control lies in the
hands of the British board, a local board
was appointed in 1951 to manage opera-
tions.
Building a Bigger Profit?
p. B. Davies Industries, Sydney-based
manufacturer of builders’ hardware,
is well in position to build its 1963-64
result to a bigger figure than the £75,994
earned in 1959-60 before the “squeeze,”
and to restore dividend to the 9 p.c.
payout made that year.
Following the 1962-63 profit jump
from £42,485 to £60,927 and the divi-
dend lift from 6 to 7 p.c., shareholders
were told at October’s annual meeting
that sales and profits in the current year
were on the increase.
Investors should remember that al-
though most firms connected with the
building industry may not feel the full
effect of the expected boom until 1964-
65, a firm which supplies hardware for
the actual construction work would see
improved sales much earlier in the piece.
For this reason RBD could well record
an excellent result this year and maybe
an even better one in 1964-65.
On top of these factors three over-
seas agencies have just been won two
to cover all Australia and one for NSW.
The nationwide agencies are for two
American companies who manufacture
materials handling equipment and the
NSW contract is for a British concrete
mixing and handling plant manufacturer.
These affiliations should aid operations
no end and an interest in the company
should prove lucrative, especially as the
scrip is at present below the 20s. par
value and yielding around 8 p.c.


NEWINGTON COLLEGE, STANMORE
Advance Reservations:
• It is necessary to book years ahead for entrance into most
sections of the school. Advance bookings ore therefore essential.
When vacancies occur applicants on waiting list will be
advised.
Casual Vacancies for 1964:
• At Newington's developing Preparatory School
AT KILLARA.
(boys enrolled from ages 5 to 12—day boys only)
• AT "Wyvern House", the Stanmore Preparatory School (in
Third and Frith classes only).
• FOR Boarders —a few only.
APPLICATION should be made to the Headmaster,
OR at • Wyvern House (Newington College, Stanmore) and at
• Killara Preparatory School (Locksley Street, Killara)
to the Masfrer-in-Charge.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Wool Levy Breakthrough
Changes Must Come Now in Marketing
A fter all the turmoil that went before
it, and coming as a sequel to the
preoccupations of New Year, last week’s
decision by the Australian Wool In-
dustry Conference to ask growers for
£7,250,000 to pay for promotion and
research next financial year was some-
thing of an anti-climax.
The conference’s decision, by 40 votes
to 10, was as everyone had lately come
to expect, although six months ago the
anticipating of such a decision would
have required the vision of a seer.
Ever since the slump in wool prices
a few years ago made the industry
suspect that it might have to promote its
product like any other business, conflict
had raged over which should come first,
promotion or marketing reform.
The divisions were clear enough to
generalise that the smaller growers were
militants using the promotion issue as a
lever to strengthen their demands for
orderly marketing, while the graziers
argued that the need for stepping up
wool promotion was so urgent that it
could not wait for the tricky question of
marketing to be settled—if, indeed, re-
form were needed.
Militancy was at its height in Victoria
and Western Australia, and was reflected
in the policy of the Australian Wool and
Meat Producers’ Federation, with which
the Victorian Wheat and Wool Growers’
Association and its counterpart in the
West were affiliated.
PTlhe Federation itself earlier last year re-
laxed its stand to enable it to con-
sider the Wool Board's case for a higher
levy provided it had some assurance that
marketing reform would follow, but at
their own level the two State groups
stood firmly by the slogan: “Marketing
first.”
Their hostility drew justification from
the fact that growers were then being
asked to finance the whole of the
£12,500,000 needed from Australia for
the first year of the programme recom-
mended by the International Wool
Secretariat and its constituent, the Aus-
tralian Wool Board, for world - wide
promotion and research —except for 4s.
a bale provided by the Commonwealth.
Organisations like the VWWGA and
the AWMPF today claim much credit
for the ground that was gained between
then and the conference’s decision, and
would not like the forebearance they
showed in the couple of months that
preceded it to be mistaken for docility
or defeat.
Had it not been for their resistance to
the unconditional demand for increasing
promotion to about five times the exist-
ing figure, they claim, the Federal
Government would not have offered its
£-for-£ promotion subsidy before the
last election —an offer that will material-
ise next financial year in Government aid
of £5,250,000 —and Sir William Gunn,
chairman of the Board, would not have
had to pledge the Board’s support for
orderly marketing after its committee
of inquiry delivers findings about the
middle of this year.
Some opponents of the levy increase
kept shooting until the end, arguing that
growers would be pouring millions down
the drain if they acceded to it before
the hole in the auction system was
plugged, that recent improvements in
wool prices originated with countries of
the Communist bloc, where no pro-
motion operates, and that purchases by
countries where it does operate have
fallen in the last eight years.
The VWWGA and its Federal parent
have never gone this far. They acknow-
ledge the need for more promotion, but
maintain that the grower will not collect
the fruits of it under the present system
of selling.
While waiting for marketing reform,
the smaller growers are taking satisfac-
tion from a reform that is incorporated
in the conference’s announcement of the
higher levy decision that of making
growers’ contributions a percentage of
the gross value of the clip rather than a
fixed rate per bale.
HPhe present levy on the grower is 12s. a
bale —10 s. for promotion and 2s.
for research. This yields about £3 mil-
lion a year, of which £2.5 million is spent
on promotion and £500,000 on research.
The Federal Government contributes an
extra 4s. a bale for research only, and
this amounts to about £1 million a year.
If the target amount of £12.5 million
for the first year of the five-year pro-
gramme were raised under the old
system it would represent a levy on
growers of about 295. a bale, comprising
275. for promotion and 2s. for research.
The smaller growers, however, are
glad to wave the old system good-bye.
Many of them are mixed farmers who
grow crossbred or comeback wool that
brings less at sales than the fine merino
of the larger holdings, putting the small
man in the position of having to cough
up the same flat rate per bale as the
grazier whose wool is worth perhaps 50
to 100 per cent more.
In agreeing to sanction the levy for
wool promotion, organisations repre-
sented by half the 50-man Wool Industry
Conference hold a mortgage over the


Established 1891
A correspondence school of
world-wide repute, with
branches throughout the British
Commonwealth, U.S.A. and
other countries, teaching a
wide range of constantly
revised
Vocational,
Technical,
Commercial,
Professional,
Educational
subjects by the Home-Study
method. Full particulars sent
on request to:
The Principal,
International Correspondence Schools,
400 Pacific Highway, Crow’s Nest, N.S.W.
43-2121. Branch Offices in All States and New
Zealand.
future of wool marketing. It is now
agreed on all sides that changes must
come, although the industry remains
divided on whether they should come
as modifications to the auction system or
as something entirely new.
Something new is what is wanted by
growers who agreed to shelve their
resistance to the higher levy.
If they don’t get it, or the rudiments
of it, when the moral mortgage they have
taken matures in five months’ time, the
ensuing reaction might deafen even the
sheep.
Whither Wheat?
Critical Analysis of Australia’s New Legislation
By E. J. DONATH, Asst. Lecturer in Econ. Geography,
University of Melbourne
Australia’s new wheat legislation
passed in the dying days of the last
Federal Parliament—is not based on a
realistic appraisal of our markets but is
due to the political pressure of 50,000
wheatgrowers. The current seller’s
market for wheat is easily explained by
the phenomenal windfall purchases of
two Communist countries China and
the Soviet Union.
How long will these sales continue?
Is it justified to encourage an even
further expansion of wheat-growing by
a more than generous marketing legisla-
tion? Many students of Australian
agriculture believe that the legislation
will bring about a misallocation of our
land resources.
Since 1956-57 Australia’s wheat acre-
age has increased year by year. Obviously
wheat-growing must have given our
farmers profitable returns as the Aus-
tralian wheatbelt is climatically and
topographically suitable for a number of
land uses. Our wheat acreage has in-
creased from less than eight million to
over 16 million. This is the highest in
the post-war period and was exceeded
only once in the history of Australian
wheat-growing.
In view of the current wave of
optimism that world carryovers will be
substantially reduced by the amazing
demands of China, Russia, Europe and
Japan, fallowing in Australia has been
so widely spread that the 1964 acreage
might exceed our all-time record of 18.2
million of the 1930-31 “grow - more-
wheat” campaign year!
Ts it wise that favorable marketing legis-
-*■ lation encourages such speculative
expansion of wheatgrowing? Apart from
likely marketing difficulties, it should
not be overlooked that wheat-growing
has spread again into very dry sheep
country of New South Wales, South
Australia and Western Australia; in the
’thirties, these districts were declared
“marginal” wheatlands, and they are
very much susceptible to wind erosion.
The new Wheat Stabilisation Plan in-
creases the Commonwealth Government
guarantee from 100 m. bushels of export
to 150 m. bushels. Since 1957-58, our
export price has been below the guaran-
teed price (which is equivalent to the
cost of production calculated on a very
generous basis). In view of the current
high wheat prices the subsidy for the
1963-64 export will be comparatively
small, but to bridge the difference for
150 m. bushels between our artificially
high cost of production price and much
lower world market prices in the near
future will necessitate a considerably
higher subsidy. Why should taxpayers
regularly subsidise wheatgrowers?
One of the main reasons why wheat-
growing is so highly profitable is the
low yield basis per acre used in the
assessment of cost of production the
so-called yield divisor. During the five
years of the previous Wheat Stabilisation
Plan, the yield divisor was 15.5 bushels.
The average wheat yields per acre for
Australia were 20.7, 16.3, 20.4, 16.8
and 19.0, resulting in an average of
19.04 bushels per acre. If cost of pro-
duction is calculated on a return of 15.5
bushels per acre and the actual return
is over 19 bushels, the so-called cost of
production must include a handsome
profit margin. The actual return was
nearly 25 p.c. higher than the yield
divisor, quite,apart from other generous
allowances included in the formula!
In the new legislation the yield divisor
has been raised to 17 bushels. Accord-
ing to accepted methods of statistics the
average yield per acre for the next five
years will be over 19 bushels, taking into
consideration the possibility of a drought
such as in 1957-58. This low, official
yield divisor pushes up our so-called cost
of production price and is the main
reason why wheatgrowing has been ex-
panding at such a fast rate in the last
seven years. However, wheatgrowers’
organisations have been protesting
against the exclusion of a profit margin,
and the Minister for Primary Industry
was under strong political pressure to
include a profit margin in the legislation.
It should be stressed that the concept
of an Australia-wide yield divisor is
basically wrong. During the past five
years of the Wheat Stabilisation Plan the
average yield per acre in Victoria was
21.5 bushels and in New South Wales
20.2. In Western Australia it was only
15.8—just a little over the yield divisor
of 15.5 bushels. Seemingly the yield
divisor was intended to protect the least
efficient wheatgrowing State. How
profitable must wheatgrowing have been
in Victoria and New South Wales,
especially as real working costs in these
two States are much lower than in
Western Australia! However, even in
Western Australia wheat acreage in-
creased from less than 3.3 million to
4.8 million during the plan—an increase
of nearly 50 p.c. It has been suggested
that the yield divisor should be fixed
separately for each State and also not
for five years ahead. If cost of pro-
duction has to be assessed, it should be
calculated on the actual yield of every
year.
llTheat marketing legislation goes back
to the First World War and in its
present form to the end of the Second
World War. Conditions have changed so
greatly that it is high time to alter our
wheat marketing legislation radically. It
is the consensus of informed opinion
that the Australian Wheat Board should
continue “to be the sole constituted
authority for the marketing of wheat
within Australia and for the marketing
of wheat and flour for export from Aus-
tralia”. But there is no real need to
include in “orderly marketing” a
stabilisation plan involving a dubious
assessment of cost of production, Com-
monwealth Government guarantees,
home consumption price, etc. Our
future wheat marketing legislation should
be similar to the recent dairying legisla-
tion in handing the industry over com-
pletely to the growers: establish a Mar-
keting Board but let the industry fix


The Rural Bank does more for you!
What is the role of the Rural Bank in
the life of this young scientist?
As a busy young man busy getting ahead, this hard working young
scientist already appreciates the value of a ‘Rural’ cheque account.
It’s the time-saving, prestige way to pay accounts and also the start of
a valuable banking connection for the future. Bank ‘Rural’ yourself.
You’ll like the friendly, helpful service.
RURAL BANK
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Board of Commissioners:
}. C. Fletcher, C.B.E. (President)
E. T. Carroll, R. H. Cooper, N. B. Rydge, C.8.E., J. F. J. Auswild
i.
*bR
EVERY CLASS OF TRADING BANK BUSINESS
RBG92/8.3C
both home consumption and export
prices. Wheatgrowing, transporting,
storing, and marketing is very efficient
in Australia and it is high time for the
industry to stand on its own feet.
The world harvest for 1963 will be
comparatively low, mainly owing to poor
crops in Europe, the Soviet Union,
Japan, and most likely China as well.
International trade in wheat in 1963-64
will most likely exceed the record
trading of 1,600 m. bushels in 1961-62.
Latest quotations for Australian wheat
are over two shillings more than in
recent months! International commodity
prices are well known for their ups-and-
downs but the international wheat scene
has seldom changed as dramatically as
in the last two months.
Soviet Union seems to have been
hit hardest by unfavorable weather
conditions. Many people wonder whe-
ther the recent spectacular Russian wheat
purchases are due only to “climatic
accidents” or whether they also reveal
basic weaknesses in the communistic
organisation of agriculture. Are the
purchases of nearly 500 m. bushels
nearly one-third of total normal world
trade —a once-only affair or the begin-
ning of Russia having to be a regular
large net importer? Mr Khrushchev, in
a speech during a visit to the Volga-Don
wheat areas, blamed the shortage of
fertilisers for the poor harvest. He has
since taken dramatic steps to establish a
fertiliser industry. The perennial prob-
lem of the shortage of experienced
agricultural labor, especially machine
operators, during the planting and har-
vesting seasons was the subject of Gov-
ernment orders in 1962 and early in
1963. The Soviet Union has become
the largest wheat-importing country for
1963. The magnitude of its recent pur-
chases from Canada came like a bolt
from the blue. Russia has bought fairly
regularly from Canada a few million
bushels for its Far East province, since
it is cheaper to import Canadian wheat
to Vladivostok than transport its own
wheat several thousand miles by the
Trans-Siberian railway. But to take
Canadian wheat to Black Sea ports indi-
cates a serious shortage of the “staff of
life” in the populous parts of European
Russia and most likely also in the satel-
lite countries (which used to be large
wheat-exporting countries).
It would be wrong to assume that the
Soviet Union will cease to be a large
wheat-exporting country. Her 1963-64
harvest could easily be a bumper har-
vest of nearly 3000 m. bushels, such as
in 1958-59. In that year, the Soviet
Union exported well over 200 m. bushels.
These exports went mainly to Eastern
European countries, but a large part
was purchased by non-Communist coun-
tries.
Russian purchases from Canada are
the largest in the history of world wheat
trade, amounting to nearly 250 m. bush-
els. In addition, Russia has been buying
60m. bushels from Australia and large
quantities of flour from Germany and
. . ~ , . , . . , .
Italy. According to latest reports, about
. ’ ,
150 m. bushels will be imported from
the USA. As a comparison, China s total
purchases from Australia since Decern-
ber, 1960, amount to 236 m. bushels.
Will Russia change as quickly again
into a large exporting country ais she
has changed into the largest importing
country?
China and the Soviet Union (and some
the satellite countries) have become
wheat-deficient countries. As they con-
,ain ? bout one ; ,h ' rd of,otal w , orld
population, and some of these countries
A * u u * *•
used to be wheat-exporting countries,
the trading out]ook for the wheat . surplug
countries looks certainly very good. Yet,
should Australia’s wheat legislation be
based so largely on difficulties in the
Soviet bloc countries and “bitter years”
in China?


People are talking
about the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
*N.Z Subscription to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick y/ whichever is appropriatw*
Is this a new subscription? j~~j or
A renewal subscription? □
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
months subscription to THE BULLETIN.
*New Zealand readers may have their copies air
freighted (£4 4s. N.Z. for 52 issues, £2 12s. for
26 issues) or by surface mail (£3 7s. N.Z. for
52 ssues, £2 2s. for 26 issues).
Perhaps this is the first issue of the BULLETIN y®«
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? More
and more people are buying the "new look"
BULLETIN f° r features, its overseas and local news,
its columnists like Boadicea, Discus, Cellarmaster, its
reviews of films, books, music and theatre. If you
want to keep abreast of news and significant events
in Australia and abroad THE BULLETIN is a must.
The
Bulletin
A magazine of facts and ideas est. 1880
ON SALE WEDNESDAYS —2/-
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 779
ACROSS
I—Disturbed1 —Disturbed throwers said no characteristic of good
cars. (14)
7 Czech composer from the United Kingdom (South).
(3)
8— Interlocking keynote and some little animals’ doctor
going crook. (11)
10—Commercial premises? (8, 5)
13— Put on a Russian river. (3)
14— But 10-across doesn’t clue this, really. (2-10)
17 —Deeply indoctrinating the possession of the clever
laundry. (12)
20—South Pennsylvania resort
offering the article on turf
information. (3)
22 No freighter joint of a
traveller on this. (9, 4)
23 Diamond rein. (anagram)
(6, 5)
24 Moustache seen on a bird
that is no more. (3)
25 Friend’s letters from one of
the busiest metropolitan rail-
way stations in the world.
(8, 6)
DOWN
1— Hsur. (4, 4)
2 A home-country seabird. (3)
3 Did grab wins, (anagram)
(6, 5)
4 Drunk in flames certainly
something to back. (7)
5 Wasn’t modest Edward urged
to undertake winter progress.
(6)
6 A pleasant alternative to any
losing encore. (5)
9—Call upon another six and
have a session. (5)
11— Like this call to another Lon-
don district. (4)
12— Not noticing you and some
swell member of the domestic
staff. (11)
15— Itch affected a little fellow.
(4)
16— Urge equipment at a factory
to be a purplish vegetable.
(3, 5)
18— Yours Truly met up with one
direction to detail expenses
and such-like. (7)
19— War may be so for a joker
editor. (5)
20— She is holding the morning
sense of disgrace. (5)
21— A seedcase and Jolson are
footless. (6)
24—West article seen in me. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 778


; M f
-
i
t'U
7Jf*i
1,1.1?
Eg!
S'S
$
fffiPS
'■-■X
m
m
y;>
!M
6
sns
H
la
!£»
'v.
ffili
tjffl
X\k
m
wm
m
mm
m
ill
MX
)(■.■■
»v
SSSfSVv; it
mmmm
<y
, i ■ s#s &
s|4
#ll
E/K
vjf
i'«
n'«
i
';SV
m
r,
da:
is
■n
si
IS
H .t. »j
t'i.
ia
*v>
•i;m
w
sisi
vxi
m
lx <
It It
(i/fr
IUV , tM;. > si■»:■ to\iN
f?r >
I
sm
fisw.
1
■: i f.v
. X>- fa---S— l —
jtfe'fiK
i ;trgi
rc
Y7>
m:
m
GOING
UP!
It's just like going
up in a lift when you
use the SUNDAY
TELEGRAPH. Your
sales will go up with
our sales. And our
sales have been climb-
ing steadily for 20
years! The last six
months has seen an-
other 13,000 copies a
week added to the
sale of the SUNDAY
TELEGRAPH.
TO GIVE A SEPTEMBER, 1963, ABC FIGURE IN EXCESS OF
AND IT'S STILL GOING UP!
Sunday Telegraph
TO GIVE YOUR SALES A LIFT IN NEW SOUTH WALES


M
&
i t
&
■
HOLDEN SPECIAL SEDAN
Performance... to set your spirits soaring!
There's only one way you can truly appreciate the
pure pleasure of Holden's new performance. That's
to slip behind the wheel and try it yourself. For instance,
words and pictures just can't convey the thrill of Holden's
new power. Or the hushed smoothness of an engine
with hydraulic valve lifters and a 7-bearing crankshaft.
(No other car anywhere near Holden’s price gives
curves ... or the living-room comfort for you and your
family that makes the difference between getting there,
and arriving in style! In fact, with Holden, one drive
is worth a whole lot of pictures and a whole lot more
words. Prove it for yourself. Pay a visit to your Holden
Dealer. He’s ready and waiting to let you try out a
new Holden* just as soon as you ask him. Why not
you both these features.) They can’t
describe the even-keel way Holden
handles the most vicious bumps and
HOLDEN
make it today?
Lowest - priced six cylinder car,
from £BB5 plus tax.
AUSTRALIA’S OWN CAR POWERED TO PERFORM IN GREAT NEW STYLE
GENERAL MOTORS HOLDEN'S
*REGO.
