

The Bulletin
FEBRUARY 8, 1964
RE-WRITING AUSTRALIAN HISTORY
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
SEASON IN THE SUN
The Palm Beach Story
Australia 2/-, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


See your Travel Agent, call KLM or mail coupon for free travel information.
KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIRLINES
A.W.A. BUILDING, 47 YORK STREET, SYDNEY. 29-3966
80 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 63-6949
Please send me your illustrated travel portfolio.
Mr./Mrs./Miss
Address
My Travel Agent is
A
klm
<
J A 127
Fly to London with reliable KLM, and choose
from over 400 different routes, break your journey at any
or all of over 30 cities, for no extra air fare
University dons parade through the streets of Oxford, Britain’s ancient university city
Experienced Australian travellers
know that KLM has a world-
wide reputation for reliability.
This is just one of many reasons
for choosing KLM next time you
fly to Europe. Now read a few
of the others.
1. A KLM DC-8 intercontinental jet
leaves Sydney every Wednesday at
10.15 a.m. Melbourne passengers can
make a same-day connection comfort-
ably. You can breakfast in Rome,
lunch in Amsterdam, dine in London
punctually on Thursday.
2. KLM’s Multi-Stopover Plan
enables you to break your journey for
days or weeks at any or all of over
30 cities for the normal air fare to
London.
3. By KLM you could, for instance,
stopover at Bangkok, enchanting
capital of friendly Thailand, taking a
close look at South East Asia; stay a
while in modern, industrious, gay
Beirut in ancient Lebanon; see the
wonderful sights of Rome, Venice,
Athens, Nice, Geneva, Paris, Luxem-
burg, Brussels and Amsterdam—all on
your way to London and for no extra
air fare.
4. KLM has 77 offices in Europe
alone. In all of them, English is the
official language. Wherever you go in
Europe, a KLM office is close by with
assistance in language problems.
5. If you have time for a short tour
of Europe, you can arrange for an
Avis Rent-a-car to be ready for you
on arrival at Amsterdam Airport—
where the hiring rates are the lowest
in Europe. Drive where you wish and
leave the car at the point where you
rejoin your KLM flight.
KLM helps the traveller
6. KLM flies to every continent and
serves 44 cities in Europe alone. KLM
operates the second-largest inter-
national air network in the world—
-144,000 unduplicated miles.
7. KLM has had longer than any
other airline to perfect its service and
reliability—44 years. KLM has carried
over thirteen-and-a-half million pas-
sengers more than fifteen-and-a-half
billion passenger miles. Every day,
KLM uses about 60 aircraft to carry
some 4,000 passengers to their
destinations. Comfortably.
8. KLM’s technical know-how is
respected throughout the airline
industry. More than 30 per cent, of
KLM’s maintenance work is done for
other airlines. KLM invented its own
apparatus for checking the electrical
system of a DC-8 jet before it takes off.
Other airlines have adopted this
apparatus.
9. KLM was the first non-American
airline to order DC-8 jets—and the
first to operate them. KLM’s DC-8
jets have two pantries (for faster
service), five flush toilets and several
cloakrooms. The cabin, air con-
ditioned on the ground as well as aloft,
gets a fresh supply of air every three
minutes.
10. Ask your Travel Agent to plan
your tour. With his professional know-
how he can help you make the most
of your time and money. Two of
every three KLM passengers are
recommended to fly KLM by
experienced Travel Agents.


National Notebook
Change in the West
IIfESTERN Australian readers are
advised that sale day for The
Bulletin in that State has been ad-
vanced from Wednesday to Monday.
Playing the Joker
IYne of the oddest publications to have
” appeared on the bookstalls for
some time is a magazine called
“Pleasure”. Recently banned in Vic-
toria, it is at the time of going to press
still for sale in NSW. It features a
lavish display of nudes and semi-nudes
together with, of all things, highbrow
film reviews, which refer the readers
to various little-read specialised motion
picture magazines overseas.
The magazine’s publisher and editor,
diminutive John Howard Reid, has
been a colorful Sydney character for
longer than his tender 26 years would
suggest. Well - known in film group
circles, he has written articles for the
widely - read London film magazine
“Films and Filming” on movie directors
Anthony Mann, George Cukor, William
Wyler and others, with elaborate descrip-
tions of meetings with these notables in
various capitals. These meetings are
“wholly mythical,” he
says. (He has never been
abroad.) Now he has ex-
tended his activities as a
practical joker by issuing
a list of the members of
the editorial board of
his publications in
“Pleasure”. These include the names
Sir Charles Freeman, Lt-Col. Robert C.
Jaeger, Jean-Paul Missiaen. Morris
Rubin and Scott Stanley. We asked him
who these gentlemen were.
“Sir Charles Freeman is a name I
made up out of my head,” said Mr Reid,
mischievously. “Lt-Col. Jaeger is a man
who tried to get photos off my
American contacts for use by his men
in the US Air Force.
“Jean - Paul Missiaen prepared the
French edition of ‘Pleasure’ which is on
sale already in Paris. Morris Rubin is
editor of the ‘Progressive’, the American
Democratic Party Monthly, and Scott
Stanley, the editor of ‘American
Opinion’, the official organ of the John
Birch Society.” Mr Reid chuckled
sagely. “Just my little joke.”
The magazine claims to be published
by the Young Liberal Movement, the
Catholic Traders’ Association, the Inter-
national Cinematographic Association
and the Australian Authors’ Association.
A recent Sunday newspaper story in
Sydney quoted a representative of the
Australian Young Liberals as greatly
resenting Mr Reid’s claim to be under
the organisation’s auspices. “Actually
this was a hoax, too,” Mr Reid said. “I
had no idea anyone would take it
seriously.” He added lastly, “The Inter-
national Cinematographic Association
does exist, however. Among its honorary
members are King Vidor, Terence Ratti-
gan and William Wyler. I am its presi-
dent.
“The Australian Authors’ Association
is a school for writers I used to run to
help would-be authors who were over-
flows from the writing schools. The
Catholic Traders’ Association has one
member myself. It exists to prevent
trading on days of obligation—Ascension
Thursday, Assumption Day and All
Saints’ Day.”
Good Fortune
LFhe list of well-wishers could have
come straight from “Who’s Who in
the Theatre”. There were cables from
Sir Laurence Olivier, Sir Lewis Casson,
Dame Sybil Thorndike all congratu-
lating the organisers of Perth’s new For-
tune Theatre.
“We shall all be your debtors for this
venture,” wrote Professor Allardyce
Nicholl. Similar messages
came from Hugh Hunt,
first director of the Eliza-
bethan Theatre Trust, Sir
Tyrone Guthrie, who
pioneered modern open-
stage theatre. Stefan
Haag, who called
it a “major milestone in theatre”. Little
wonder Perth was bewildered.
Even the 450 who braved the un-
summery night to go along and see the
“Hamlet” opening knew little of what
to expect from the New Fortune, so
suddenly a world theatre topic. They
filed in through a long gallery in the
not-yet-opened sandstone Arts building
at the University, to the corner of a
55ft square courtyard bounded on all
sides by the three-storey Arts block.
Encroaching halfway across this pit was
a huge stage; the 150 who were to sit
in the courtyard viewed the stage from
eye level. The others clacked up the
stairways at the corner to one of the
three galleries built around the stage.
Each gallery accommodated about 100.
The result: Remarkable, almost over-
whelming theatrical intimacy. The
theatre was inspired by Professor of
English, Allan Edwards. With what has
been called “brilliant foresight” he
planned more than three years ago to
have this authentic Elizabethan theatre
incorporated into the new university
building. When preliminary drawings of
the Arts block were being pored over,
Pago
MOTOR RACING 21
Australia’s big month
•
AROUND MELBOURNE ... 29
BOADICEA 21
BUSINESS AND FINANCE . 44
CROSSWORD 62
EIGHTY YEARS AGO .... 8
FORUM 30
JOKES 24
LETTERS 35
MAN ON THE LAND 59
OUT AND ABOUT 23
OVERSEAS 26
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
POETRY 39
RED PAGE 40
REVIEWS 37
TANNER 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
•
The Palm Beach Story 13
The Defence Bureaucracy 16
Beverley Cross: A Bright Young
Man * 23
Thailand: The Year of the Serpent 26
The Mirage III: Like 80 Holdens at
80 mph 29
Two Views of Manning Clark’s
Australia 30
English Intellectuals in a Blinding
Fog 40
Reorganising the Money Market .. 44
Fitting in More for Defence 46
Economics of National Service 47
Horning In on US Beef Market .. 59
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone: 27 5971.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666 Ext. 380.
Vol. 86
No. 438 i


and a courtyard bounded by three tiers
were discussed, it rang a bell. As he says:
“I’ve lived with the dimensions of
Shakespearean theatre the same way as
cricketers live with the length of a
pitch. When we discussed this court
being 55ft square, the possibilities be-
came clear and exciting.”
The New Fortune was built to the
major specifications of a 364-year-old
set of carpenters’ contracts —one of the
few existing clues to what the theatre
was like in Shakespeare’s day. The
original Fortune was built in 1600 for
Christopher Marlowe’s leading man,
Edward Alleyn, to imitate and compete
with Shakespeare’s Globe. The Fortune
was square, the Globe round.
In the hub of organisation for the
New Fortune stands Dr Philip Parsons,
whose thesis on 17th-century drama
earned him a PhD from Cambridge last
year, plus a special place in this new
project. He says: “We know what
Shakespeare wrote. But while we know
he was also brilliant in stagecraft, we.
have little idea of how he moved his
plays. The New Fortune's main contri-
bution will be in research to find out
how the Elizabethan theatre actually
worked. It will be a place where the
academics meet the theatre. It will
attract both scholars and producers of
major standing. It certainly won’t be a
place to dust off every year or so for
a small local production. We have
tremendously big plans, with enough
interest shown already to make us con-
fident we can carry them through.”
Age Limit
lrl interviewers get younger and
prettier all the time, and Ayako
Imasaki, who arrived in Sydney last
week with a television team of three
from Osaka’s Mainichi Broadcasting
System, seemed an all time record. The
Department of Trade said she was only
19, but when tracked down at their
Rushcutter Bay headquarters, Ayako ad-
mitted to 21.
The age discrepancy, she explained,
was all part of the job, a one-month
assignment of interviews with Aus-
tralians in industry, professions, school
and sport for a documentary series
called “A Japanese Teenager Looks At
Australia'’. Ayako was chosen from hun-
dreds of applicants when the Mainichi
company offered the job last year.
The film unit is being sponsored by a
group of Australian organisations,
chiefly the Commonwealth Trade De-
partment and Qantas, helped by the
Australian National Travel Association,
the News and Information Bureau, the
Dairy Produce Board and the Wine
Producers. The series will be shown in
Japan about March, to coincide with
three events which could boost the
stream of tourists to Australia. These
are the lifting of credit restrictions for
overseas travellers, the arrival of the
trade ship Centaur in mid-April, and
the Osaka Trade Fair from April 9 to
29.
After only three days in Australia,
Ayako had not so much looked as been
looked at. She explored Macleay Street
for introductory shots, and attracted a
large crowd by paddling barefoot in the
Alamein Fountain. Next day the hard
work began with factory tours, to be
followed by Harbor trips, Hyde Park
pageants and surf carnivals (Australians
celebrating). She will also visit Mel-
bourne University. Queensland sugar re-
fineries, Toowoomba wheat farms, Tas-
manian hydro - electric schemes and
Camden's rotolactor.
Our Cover
C|ur cover, an aerial photographer’s
eye view of Palm Beach, is by Mr
Douglass Baglin, of Sydney.
ABAS DE
GAULLE
Ms
don't know, but it could be Roger Hilsman."


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Crash Programme
For Defence
A FTER this year’s Summer School
on defence held in Canberra by
the Australian Institute of Political
Science, it is particularly clear that
a greater contribution to the solu-
tion of possible military problems
in South-East Asia will be expected
from Australia in the future. At
the same time it was conclusively
proved in Canberra, mainly in an
extremely able paper read by Pro-
fessor T. B. Millar, that Australia
is simply not ready and able to
engage, immediately and effectively,
in any military activity, should it be
necessary in the country’s interest
to do so. The kind of warfare, for
example, in which Australia could
be involved in this area requires a
capacity for immediate action; it
does not allow time for the training
of newly recruited troops, and it
requires equipment already in the
hands of personnel trained and
ready to use it. We are obviously
not ready and adequately equipped
in this way.
It was also shown at the Summer
School that we have not spent
enough money on defence, that
what we have spent we have not
spent wisely, and that our de-
fence organisation is over-bureau-
cratised. Since all this is known in
the countries to our north, it has
minimised the value of our foreign
policy and of our ability to raise
our voices with any effect in the
councils of this area. As Professor
Beddie pointed out, “Despite ex-
tended commitments, our defence
expenditure fell away from the
£203 million spent in 1952-53 to
fluctuate between the £l7O and
£2OO million until 1961-62. While
officially we undertook a major de-
fence effort in order to secure and
carry influence in our alliances, in
reality we relied upon our alliances
to relax our defence effort. Instead
of treating defence as comple-
mentary to diplomacy, we treated
diplomacy as a substitute for de-
fence.” (See pages 16-20 of this
issue.)
All these facts must be equally
clear to the Federal Government
and to its military advisers. Why,
then, have they not done anything
about it? Part of the answer un-
doubtedly lies in the fact that the
Government has preferred to spend
more on development and immi-
gration than would have been
possible if a greater defence effort
had been undertaken. This, how-
ever, is not a sufficient answer
or excuse. While it is necessary to
strike the right balance between
direct defence preparations and the
development of population and in-
dustry which have defence implica-
tions, the correct balance cannot be
justifiably settled at a point which
makes it impossible for us to carry
out our commitments if suddenly
called upon, or to speak from
strength on matters of vital interest
to us.
fFHE real problem by which the
A Government has been confronted
is the ALP’s irresponsibility in de-
fence policy, and the public’s lack
of knowledge, understanding and
sophistication on these matters in
peacetime. Although the Parlia-
mentary Labor Party has never
voted against a Government de-
fence budget, it has always con-
ducted what Professor Beddie
called a kind of guerrilla campaign
against Government defence policies,
and in 1955 went to the electorate
on a platform of reducing defence
expenditure by £4om. to £som.
There would be no point in the
Government pressing a defence
policy at a cost in relation to de-
velopment which would result in
it losing power and handing both
foreign and defence policy over to
a party which is at its weakest and
most dangerous in those very fields.
The upshot is that it has ap-
parently been impossible to develop
a defence policy at all. While it
would be a big step forward if
some measure of agreement could
be reached between the main
parties about the amounts which
should be spent on defence, the
fact is that this is unlikely. The
ALP, in its present unreformed
state, would obviously try to make
political capital out of the con-
sequences in other fields of in-
creased defence expenditure.
The only path open to the Gov-
ernment is to make a convincing
effort to show the voters that more
money must be spent on defence as
a simple matter of national safety.
The result of the last election
showed quite clearly that the people
trust this Government much more
on foreign and defence policy than
they trust the ALP. The voters are
beginning to see clearly that what
is happening to our north requires
effort, action and the expenditure
of money.
The Government should there-
fore grasp the nettle. It should
overcome its fears of political con-
sequences and develop a crash pro-
gramme in the defence field, in-
cluding selective national service.
It should also accompany this with
an explanation of what it is doing
and why. This would not only
convince Australians, and politic-
ally outmanoeuvre the ALP, but it
would go a long way towards show-
ing our “great and our powerful
friends” that we are prepared to
pull our weight, and our neighbors
that we intend to be able to act,
when and if necessary.


THIS AUSTRALIA
DEFENCE- I
Labor Leaders’ Jitters
Boycotting Arms for Malaysia?
E. V. ELLIOTT
Boasting
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
Labor Party has developed a
further attack of the jitters, because
its leaders are fearful about what is
going to happen when the Menzies
Government actually starts shipping to
Malaysia the FN rifles, light automatic
weapons and other equipment already
promised by Australia for its defence.
These Labor leaders are certain that
one of the two Communist factions —
the pro-Moscow official group under
Dixon-Sharkey leadership or the break-
away pro-Peking hard line group headed
by Victorian Ted Hill—will organise
to have the shipments held up. These
Labor leaders do not want the ALP
identified disastrously with a fifth column
inside Australia.
Their apprehension appears justified.
On the Communist side, both Aus-
tralian Communist groups are partici-
pating in the world fight for the loyalty
of the Indonesian Communist Party, the
largest Communist Party in Asia, for
either Moscow or Peking. Peking appears
to be winning the day. But if action by
either group could either assist to keep
the Indonesian Communist Party in the
Peking camp or swing it towards
Moscow, there is nothing in the history
of either group to suggest that they
would not take such action however
adversely Australian interests were
affected.
Speaking of the Korean war, Mr
E. V. Elliott, Communist secretary of
the Australian Seamen’s Union, has had
recorded in his own journal—the Sea-
men’s Journal the boast that when
Australian servicemen were risking their
lives for their country in Korea not a
ton of supplies or support for these men
left Australia by sea.
The Australian Government, said
Elliott, speaking to a meeting of Com-
munist trade union leaders in East Ger-
many, was compelled to lift every
requirement of these men by air.
If the Communists went to such
lengths to prevent supplies from Aus-
tralia reaching Australian servicemen
fighting their country’s fight abroad, they
would not quibble to prevent supplies
reaching Malaysia, particularly if there
was the chance that such action could
affect the outcome of the Moscow-
Peking struggle for control of the Indo-
nesian Communist Party.
On the Labor side, the situation is
that the public image of Labor already
accepted by at least a majority of the
electorate—as the recent Federal election
showed —is one of a party in which a
very important section has, if not Com-
munist associations, at least a disinclina-
tion to oppose with any firmness Com-
munism and its tightly organised follow-
ing in the industrial movement.
The Jordan incident in Victoria can-
not be helping to remove any of the
tarnish which the Communist-tolerating
section of the ALP has given to the
public image of the Party.
Mr M. Jordan ran a ticket for the
executive of the Melbourne Trades Hall
in opposition to a section of the Mel-
bourne Trades Hall controllers who also
control the Victorian ALP. Jordan’s
ticket won.
In the past, when ALP men have
been associated in such moves with
Communists and the combined ALP-
Communist group has won, the con-
trollers of the Victorian ALP have
thrown up their hands in pious horror
when it has been suggested that they
should take some action that would
prevent the Communist Party assuming
de facto control of increasingly larger
segments of the Trade Union movement.
“The ALP does not interfere in in-
dustrial matters,” has been the smug
retort. But this time a non-Communist
ticket won. So the Victorian ALP just
simply changed its policy.
It decided to intervene and suspended
Jordan from ALP membership.
As I see it, those Labor leaders who
are trying to peer into the future and to
foresee what might happen when the
Menzies Government implements its
decision to supply Malaysia with
defensive arms have cause to feel jittery.
Either Communist faction in co-
operation with the Communist-aligned
section of the ALP could put them in
a hopelessly indefensible position politi-
cally and one that could produce even
worse long-term setbacks for Labor
than the recent Federal election.
DEFENCE - II
Stepping Up Defence Spending
£300 million by 1968?
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
Tf anybody present had any doubts
A about the paucity of Australian
defences, a masterly paper by Dr T. B.
Millar, of the Australian National Uni-
versity, at the Australian Institute of
Political Science Summer School, detail-
ing the gaps in the equipment and man-
power of all arms of the Services served
to lay them, though Dr Millar’s address
stopped short of measuring the cost of
a full defence effort.
That task was left to Professor R. I.
Downing, who seemed to take rather a
sweeping view of what constituted
defence. As well as direct budgetary
expenditure on defence, he included the
whole cost of development with all its
attendant facets such as investment and
immigration, and even education and
foreign aid.
While Downing appeared to favor
stepping up direct defence expenditure
even beyond last year’s revised targets,
which will bring it to £3OO million or
more a year by 1968, he seemed more
obsessed with increasing the indirect
efforts and made out a sound case for
considering them as formidable con-
tributions to the strength of the Western
alliance, whose demands, he assumed,
we wou|d have t 0 meet , 0 satisf our
partners These wou , d in fact _ be grealer
than our own defensive needs to with-
stand an invasion.
We didn’t get from his paper any
precise estimate of what we should be
spending directly on defence, but in very


round terms he considered that in future
years we would have to devote from
2 to 5 per cent more of Gross National
Product to defence in the larger sense
as he defined it.
As this would entail cutting the share
of GNP going to consumption from the
present 74.2 per cent to between 72.2
and 69.2 per cent, he posed a big problem
ahead for the economy, which both he
and Sir Ronald Walker in the discussion
said would be considerably mitigated
by an all-out effort to increase the size
of the GNP itself.
One was still left with the feeling,
however, that in the present circum-
stances of the economy with its high
liquidity and stored up reserves of
spending power, for instance in
record savings deposits, that there would
be strong resistance by consumers to keep
up their share of GNP despite the
efforts of the authorities through higher
taxation to effect the necessary reduction
in consumption. Without a defence
emergency, without a “peril point”, in
front of us, one feared that to attempt
to proceed so strongly on all Professor
Downing’s defined defence fronts at once
could stretch “resources” too far and
induce the very instability which could
weaken the economy and so impair our
contribution to the alliance.
Professor Downing was also rather
too sanguine on the long-term effects of
an increased defence effort of the mag-
nitude he envisaged on the balance of
payments. With overseas reserves at
their present record heights and con-
tinuing to be supplemented by favorable
trade balance and buoyant capital in-
flow, we could well afford to sustain a
greater flow of imports for some time
ahead. The favorable balance of pay-
ments climate could easily change, as it
has so often done in the past, and put us
in difficulties as in 1951 and 1960,
though admittedly this is no reason for
being inhibited in our purchasing of over-
seas supplies of armaments, nor of capital
goods, to bolster Downing's wider de-
fence proposals.
Attention was also drawn at the School
to some narrow but still very important
aspects of the cost of defence. One of
these concerned our oil resources which,
limited as they are to one certain proved
field in Queensland, are in the process of
being extracted and used for current
consumption here at a time when there
is a world glut of oil and our balance
of payments has never been stronger to
finance the importation of our full re-
quirements. It was pointed out that it
is high time we had a national fuel
policy and to ensure the retention of
our oil reserves, such as they are, in the
ground.
Serious consideration should be given
to the establishment of an overseas
shipping line on defence grounds even
though this would entail heavy subsidies.
While we have expanding shipbuilding
facilities here, for instance at Whyalla
and at those eastern capitals, there is no
reason why some of the necessary ships
couldn't be built here, while as a quid
pro quo for our increasing exports to
Japan, doubtless that country would
relish building some. It is now the
leading shipbuilding nation in the
world.
UNIONS
The Jordan Expulsion
Brebner’s revenge?
VIC STOUT
To retire?
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
Those who maintained that something
would “happen” to Mr M. C.
(“Mick”) Jordan, Assistant Secretary of
the Trades Hall Council, were right. Mr
Jordan has been suspended from the
ALP by the party’s State Executive and
at this stage neither Mr Jordan nor
the public have been officially told either
the reason or the immediate pretext.
The reason, however, is common
knowledge. Last December the Trades
Hall Council held an election to fill three
vacancies on its Executive. Mr J. P.
Brebner, a Senior Vice-President of the
State ALP and a members of the Party’s
Federal Executive, was surprisingly de-
feated by 110 votes to 99. From this
time on, stories circulated that Jordan
had organised Brebner’s defeat and that
retaliation was imminent,
The other strand in the story is:
who will succeed the present secretary
of the THC, Mr Vic Stout, now in his
79th year? Jordan has been Assistant
Secretary since 1947 and many, including
Jordan himself, think he should succeed
Stout if and when the latter retires. But
even before Brebner’s crash in the
December elections, he and the Left-wing
union delegates had made it clear that
Jordan would not get their support.
Jordan is now 50 and had a rapid
rise to his present job which he took on
at the age of 33. Prior to that he had
served for a year as the THC President,
and was probably the youngest man ever
to sit in the chair. His earlier union
career had been in the
Union for which he was an organiser
when elected Assistant Secretary of the
THC. Significantly, in this election his
opponent was a member of the Left-
wing Victorian Branch of the Australian
Railways Union.
Jordan was involved in an incident in
1950 which has some parallel to the
present situation. At the annual ALP
Conference Mr H. O. Davis, an official
of the Australian Workers’ Union, stood
for the Party’s Executive and to his
surprise and dismay he was defeated. He
blamed Jordan for his mishap and had
him brought before the AWU State Exe-
cutive on a charge of misconduct. At
this time Jordan had kept up union
membership by joining the AWU and
was subject to its rules. He was fined
£lO.
Until the recent fiare-up little had
been heard of Jordan outside of the
Trades Hall, but it is no secret that he
recently has done much to diminish the
influence on the Left-wing bloc on the
Trades Hall Council. Before the 1955
ALP split he was often in conflict with
the Communist-led unions. On one
occasion he publicly charged that the
Liquor Trades Union elections had been
rigged. In another episode, the Rail-
ways Union barred him from addressing
workers at the Newport workshops.
Since 1955 he has been much less in
the public eye as a critic of the Left-
wing unions, but like many ALP mem-
bers has apparently watched with dismay
their influence in the industrial and poli-
tical sections of the Victorian Labor
movement. Even in the present dispute,
he has held his peace merely lodging an
appeal.
Under ALP rules he has the right to
ask the Executive to lay specific charges
in support of its action. In addition he
can appeal to the Annual State Con-
ference against his suspension. If the
Executive states baldly that Jordan was
suspended for working against Brebner
at the THC election, it leaves itself
open to the charge of ‘'interference in
trade union .affairs”. This is the for-
mula used to justify the Victorian ALP’s
refusal to act against members who take
part in Unity Tickets with Communists.
However, it is such a flexible rule that
it is very likely that the Executive will
throw discretion and logic out the door
and charge Jordan with being a party


"to a virtual Unity Ticket with THC
delegates who are DLP members.
For good measure, stories are being
spread that Jordan has been active as a
negotiator in an attempt to reunite the
ALP and DLP. At twenty stone, Mr
Jordan is a big man, but even his great-
est admirers hardly think him capable
of that Herculean feat in a State like
Victoria.
EXPORTS
Red China: Our
4th Best Customer
Will the flag follow trade?
MAO TSE-TUNG
Trader
BY E. J. DONATH IN MELBOURNE
/Communist China has become of
significant importance in Australian
export trade; in fact, it has become our
fourth-best customer on the average of
the past two financial years (after Britain,
Japan and the United States). Diplomatic
recognition of Communist China might
soon become a really vexed problem
for Australia if many non-Communist
countries in France’s footsteps,
and especially in the likely event of
Communist China being admitted to the
United Nations. The Minister for
External Affairs (Sir Garfield Barwick)
said last week that “Australia would
examine with interest the conditions
under which recognition had been agreed
between France and the Chinese Com-
munist Government.” The Leader of the
Federal Opposition (Mr A. Calwell)
supported the decision of France to
recognise Red China and said that “it
was possible that China would attempt
to make recognition of Communist
China a condition of continuing trade
between the two countries.” In view of
these possibilities it is of importance to
know the facts of our trade with China
in recent years: More than six per cent
of our total export went to China last
year, and the loss of China as a market
would vitally affect the wheat industry:
more than forty per cent of our record
wheat exports of the past three years
has gone to China.
China has also become an important
customer of our wool; in 1962-63, China
was our eighth best wool customer, and
with purchases amounting to nearly £sm.
in the first five months of 1963-64 has
kept this position in our most important
export industry. Last year there was an
interesting change in the composition
of our wool export to China; about
85 per cent of our wool export was
greasy wool whilst in previous years
processed wool amounted to up to fifty
per cent of our wool export. Wool con-
sumption in China is very low in spite
of the harsh winter climate in the larger
part of China; the average consumption
per person is only 0.2 lb compared with
the (still low) Japanese consumption of
2.5 lb per person. With 750 million
people and an annual increase of over
two per cent, it has been estimated that
China by 1970 might need about 450 m.
lb of wool; small wonder that the Inter-
national Wool Secretariat has shown
great interest in China and has suggested
that Australian advisers should assist in
the establishment of modern woollen
textile plants.
With £s3m. worth of wheat purchases
and over £lom. for wool, these two
commodities accounted for nearly 98 per
cent of Communist China’s total
purchases from Australia. The remain-
ing £1,600,000 was spent on a great
variety of commodities, such as skim
milk, oats, hides, edible and inedible
beef tallow, coal, zinc, gypsum, and iron
and steel plate. No copper wire, rutile,
edible mutton tallow, gluten and barley
were purchased in 1962-63, as in some
previous years.
The main item of Communist China’s
small export to Australia is textiles,
worth £2.7m. in 1962-63—an increase of
about 60 per cent compared with the
previous year. Imports from Communist
China of cotton piecegoods amounted
to about £lm., tea towels to £275.000,
pillow cases to nearly £150.000, handker-
chiefs, serviettes and table cloths to
nearly £250,000 and silk piecegoods to
£130,000. Other items imported were:
bristles (more than £600,000), tea
(£160,000) fish, antimony, floor cover-
ings, hides and skins, nuts, spices, tung
oil, gloves, boots and shoes (£71.000 as
compared with £31,000 in 1961-62) and
corn and flour sacks. The 1962-63
imports of nearly £6m. were the highest
and exceeded those of the previous year
by nearly £2m.
Australia has a highly favorable
balance of trade with China; in 1962-63
more than £64m. of goods went there
while we imported less than £6m. of
merchandise. More than six per cent of
our exports go to China whilst we import
hardly half of one per cent of our imports
from there. In the past three financial
years our exports to China amounted
to more than £l7om. whilst we purchased
only £l3m. worth of goods; this surplus
of £ls7m. is a significant sum within
Australia’s overseas trade.
China is Australia’s largest supplier
of towel and towelling, and our number
one customer of wheat and edible beef
tallow, third largest buyer of our oats,
THE HANGMAN'S RELICS
bulletin
80 Years Ago: February 9, 1884
JT'here is still a feeling of reverence
for great men in the minds of the
people. Only the other day the effects
of the late Mr Marwood, hangman,
were sold by public auction. The
last rope the great artist used was
sold for £4 10s.; his Bible (he was a
man of considerable but unaffected
piety) brought thirty-five shillings.
His whisky-flask brought only eleven
shillings, which is a matter of sur-
prise to us. His Gladstone travelling-
bag, however, which he carried with
him on circuit, realised the com-
paratively handsome sum of three
pounds. Evidently it was purchased
in the belief that Marwood had at
some time or other carried a head
in it. It is a fine old spirit which
causes people to treasure so dearly
the relics of the great departed. It
encourages us to go and do likewise.
If we can't all be hangmen, at least
a good proportion of us have a
chance to be hanged,
§ et from TRUTH:— “A most
’* disgraceful exhibition of cruelty
took place at Arundel. One of the
Duke of Norfolk’s finest red deer
escaped and took refuge in the river,
where hundreds of men and boys
pelted it with stones till pieces were
literally cut out of its body. It is
hoped the Duke of Norfolk and the
local authorities will have the mis-
creants severely punished for killing
the stag.” Of course; the scoundrels
ought to be hanged. That’s not the
way to kill a deer. It ought to be
chased by gentlemen in red coats,
and then torn by dogs.


w m
is; S; $ ■' v Wf:
i * ''-O'-1!
V KO>fl
:3 i
>5 '«• , I § I
: i f> S, *f: «'fv
; i u * t,..i s "s
R"-
11"
P^:3te,
II-
• *•■*■,
‘HI
I
1:11 llli
mm
>
9M .
\m
n
r
■ >■■:■
, > ‘ ••
t . v
MENZIES
AUSTRALIA’S NEWEST FINEST HOTEL
Fully air-conditioned rooms and suites . . •
spacious restaurants, lounges, cocktail bars ...
arcades of over 200 shops . . . Australia’s
largest hotel underground car park, for 450
cars, plus Menzies 24-hour room service.
Truly, Menzies Sydney is a new world of
sophistication and comfort.
FOR INSTANT TELETYPE RESER-
VATIONS just ring the FEDERAL
HOTEL nearest you:
Brisbane: Lennons, 32 0131; Toowoomba:
Lennons, 2 2433. Melbourne: Menzies,
601581; Savoy Plaza, 62 4141; Hotel Federal,
62 3721. Sydney: Hampton Court, 31 7081;
New Menzies, 2 0232. Hobart: Wrest Point
Riviera, 5 1021. Or book through any travel
agent.
MENZIES SYDNEY
Comfort beckons you in rooms or
suites tastefully furnished, supremely
comfortable. Dial your own individ-
ually-controlled temperature... dial
piped music or news.
Newest addition to
lasreiaaaa
IiMIJH
Across the Nation
14 Carrington Street. Cable Address: Menzotel, Sydney. Telex No. 20-443


and eighth largest buyer of our wool.
Australia has become a major exporter
to China —third after the Soviet Union
and Canada; and China has become our
fourth-best customer.
It is interesting to note how public
opinion is influenced by trade activities.
According to a recent Gallup Poll, 78
per cent of Australians approve of selling
wheat to China as compared with 69 per
cent in December, 1962; the percentage
among Liberal-CP voters was consider-
ably higher than among Labor voters.
And in Canada, according to a similar
poll, a large majority was in favor of
the Canadian Government supporting
the next motion for admission of China
to the United Nations. It again proves
the English saying that the flag follows
trade.
China maintains trade relations with
80 non-Communist countries, and her
trading with the Western world has been
increasing in the last three years. In
December, 1962, Japan signed a trade
agreement with China, andVanada con-
eluded an agreement a few months ago.
Britain has made great efforts to in-
crease its trade with China, and so have
other European countries, especially
France and Germany. Last year, more
than one-third of Australia’s total exports
went to Asian countries, and China was,
after Japan, the most important destina-
tion. Here is a market of 750 million
people increasing annually by more than
15 million; Communist China could
become (apart from wheat also) the
main destination for our surplus of
wool, many of our food surpluses, and
even for some of our manufactured
goods.
CRIME
The Calabrians
The Italiano Brothers’ sentence
ARTHUR RYLAH
Jigsaw puzzle
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
4 rising from police investigations into
the shootings in the Italian com-
munity two brothers appeared in the
City Court last week. They were Gio-
vanni and Domenico Italiano, both of
North Melbourne, and nephews of
Domenico Italiano who died of natural
causes in December, 1962. Domenico
Italiano Senior was known as “II Papa”,
the chief of the Calabrian community
whose death allegedly touched off the
shootings.
Giovanni, 41, was charged with being
an idle and disorderly person in that he
possessed an offensive weapon, to wit a
flick-knife. His brother, 37, was charged
with having had an unregistered pistol
without authority.
Neither brother would make any state-
ment to the Court. Police gave evidence
that Giovanni had told them when
apprehended that he used the flick-
knife “to open letters”. Domenico’s pis-
tol was loaded, police said.
Chief Magistrate J. W. Marwick sen-
tenced each of the men to 14 days’ gaol.
The sentence was severe, since no evi-
dence of prior convictions was given.
But Mr Marwick commented that police
had come up against “a blank wall” of
silence when questioning the brothers
and this was undoubtedly a factor he
took into account when passing sentence.
(On Friday another Italian was fined £25
for having an unlicensed gun.)
This aside, police are moderately
hopeful that they can eventually solve
the shootings mystery. The case has had
no sensational developments since the
police raid on the Victoria Market. It
has reached the stage of so many crime
investigations patient plodding and
sifting through a vast amount of data,
some relevant and much irrelevant.
Appeals in Italian through the Melbourne
“Sun” and “Herald” and the aid given
by the Italian-language press have done
something to loosen up the tight-lipped
Calabrian community, despite cases like
the Brothers Italiano. As the Chief Sec-
retary, Mr Rylah, said last week: “As the
pieces of this jigsaw puzzle come to-
gether, the scope of the inquiry widens”.
Meanwhile police are trying to con-
tact an anonymous man who wrote to
them in Italian saying he knew the solu-
tion of the four shootings. However, he
added, the £5OOO reward offered by the
State Government was not good enough.
He wanted a lot more money for his
co-operation. On the face of it, this
looked like the letter of a crank, but
the police are not ignoring it. They
have appealed to the writer to get in
touch with them. The chief of the
Homicide Squad, Detective Inspector
J. Matthews, said the letter was one of
the most significant tips received.
ZIONISM
Zionists in
Conflict
Educational failures?
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
HThe 21st Biennial Conference of the
Australian Zionist movement in
Sydney, ending last week, became a cock-
pit of conflict. Apart from the welter
of personal antagonisms which are
likely to bedevil any such gathering the
conference became a struggle between
youth and age, intensified by bitter
criticism of Jewish education in Aus-
tralia from the younger side.
Where the critics wanted reforms in
teaching and a new emphasis on youth
education, the elderly president, H. B.
Newman, of Sydney, spoke of the need
for “political action” to help Zionism.
The usual Australian tension-point,
Sydney-Melbourne rivalry, was also
present. The unofficial leadei of the
Melbourne faction, youngish solicitor
Arnold Bloch, manoeuvred for the return
of the Zionist headquarters to Melbourne.
Conflict between Mr Newman and
Mr Bloch started before the first session
opened. They refused to be photographed
together for the Sydney Jewish press.
Antagonism continued throughout the
meeting. Mr Newman in the chair had
to face frequent challenges from Mr
Bloch on procedural and constitutional
matters.
Younger speakers from the floor
returned continually to the need for
better education and formation of young
Australian-born Jews to maintain the
ideals of Zionism and the Jewish cultural
traditions.
However, Mr Newman in his presi-
dential address laid the emphasis on
political-type action in support of Israel.
He wanted Zionism to be active in doing
a PR job against Nasser and the anti-
Semites. He referred to the coming crisis
over the Jordan waters and told the con-
ference that the Norwich Union affair
had only been a “nine-day-wonder” in
the public mind. Further he called for
a counter-boycott against the UAR. The
case for Israel, he said, must be stated
forcefully because the public had ceased
to be horrified at Nazi atrocities.
. The first speaker to follow him, Mr
Isaac (“Pixie”) Ernest, a kibbutz worker
of long standing, attacked the Australian
Zionist attitude toward youth and their
failure to set a positive example for
youth. He made the radical proposal
that senior Zionists should travel to
Israel every few years.
Jewish day schools, in his opinion,
had fallen down in their job of building
students’ characters. Mr Ernest, who is


AUCTION SALE—LARGE INDUSTRIAL HOLDING
FRENCH'S FOREST—SYDNEY
Land Area: 27 Acres, 3 Roods, 3| Perches, with
Factory Buildings over 60,000 sq. ft. and two Cottages
Frontage to Warringah Road, Rodborough Road, Allambie Road and Fitzpatrick Avenue.
Particularly suited to light industry, pharmaceutical chemicals, clothing, electrical, etc.
FOR AUCTION SALE: TUESDAY, 10th MARCH
To be offered firstly in one line, then in subdivision in areas of 7£, 104 and 10 acres.
For full details contact:
INDUSTRIAL DEPARTMENT
Ist Floor, Hooker House, Angel Place, Sydney. Phone: 28 8401, or
Conjunction Agent: R. V. DIMOND PTY. LTD. Phone: 28 8355
X-iinvEirrESio
returning to Israel shortly, also proposed
that Zionists step up their education
subsidy.
Another educationalist, Mr Moshe
Resnick, proposed a new curriculum for
Zionist youth conducted on seminar lines
and advocated improved standards.
The most scathing critic, Dr Hans
Ruskin, of Melbourne, said though
Zionists and parents taxed themselves
for education they were not interested
in the way funds were spent: “They
leave it to well-meaning but often senile
persons,” he said. “They employ teachers
on the cheap and are sufficiently hypo-
critical to praise their incompetent
endeavors.”
Dr Ruskin saw the tragedy of the
Jewish schools as their failure to teach
the Jewish culture. In Melbourne
£500,000 is spent annually on Jewish
education and in Dr Ruskin’s opinion
the returns do not nearly warrant the
outlay.
“Hebrew teachers,” he said, “cannot
speak Hebrew.”
POLICE
Commissioner Bischof
in the Box
" They know not what they do”
FROM A BRISBANE CORRESPONDENT
Queensland’s Police Commissioner,
Francis Erich Bischof, has long been
a by-word for his colorful speech and
vehement turn of phrase. In his appear-
ance in the witness box at the National
Hotel Royal Commission in Brisbane, he
did not disappoint those who expected
blunt speaking.
He was one of the last witnesses at the
Commission, which began late last year
after a series of allegations in the Queens-
land Parliament made by barrister mem-
ber Colin Bennet. But although Bischof
was one of the last into the box, he had
sat throughout the Commission s 36
days of hearings up till then.
Even in distant Perth the Royal Com-
mission has got a good enough cover for
the average citizen to be roughly aware
of the issues. The Royal Commissioner,
Mr Justice Gibbs, whose questions were
pertinent and often disconcerting, was
enquiring into just what had gone on at
the National Hotel, one of Brisbane’s
oldest (even though recently refurbished)
hostelries. There were allegations of
policemen drinking after hours, of ex-
tensive after-hours drinking by members
of the public, of a call-girl network,
and further claims that the illegal state
Of affairs was known and condoned by
high police officers.
About ninety-odd witnesses have gone
before the Commission to make claims
and counter-claims. Mr Bischof went into
? e an f /u 0 < - omm ' vS ‘ on that
the National Hotel had never sought or
received preferential treatment. He ad-
mitted that he had known the Roberts
family for years.
Mr Bischof shed new light on the
operation of police discretion when he
strongly defended existing practices: “For
many years and particularly since I be-
came Commissioner for Police I have
extended merciful consideration to all
people who unwittingly commit a breach
of the law, particularly first offenders,
and I don’t want to be in the police
force any longer if that authority is
taken from me . Questioned about an
interview with one of the witnesses, G.
Komlosy, about an after-hours liquor
sale oflence, Mr Bischof said that such
interviews were not unusual. “I have
always made myself available, whether
for princess, prostitute, poet or peasant .
Asked about actions taken by his Assist-
ant Commissioner and whether he had
been away sick, Mr Bischof answered:
1 am not often sick. I am sick at heart
at tne time.
Cross-examined by Mr B. W. Am-
brose, appearing for David Young, the
man whose allegations sparked off the
Commission, Mr Bischof said that he
did not want to be unkind to Young or
Komlosy. “If they and others in high
places desire to crucify me and members
of the police force, I have no hard feel-
ings. All I can say is ‘Forgive them for
they know not what they do’. That was
said 2000 years ago. I have no hard
feeling against them”.
Questioned about occasions he had
stayed at the home of Jack Roberts (a
brother of the publican) on the Gold
Coast, Mr Bischof said that he had used
the house on three occasions. But each
time he had paid something to Jack
Roberts.
He said that he had ordered an in-
vestigation into the allegations of mis-
conduct at the National and “I was satis-
fied then that there was no foundation
in the allegations and I am satisfied
today”.
Mr Bischof was followed by Basil Wil-
liam Grove, a warehouseman, who came
forward because “in the morning paper
I read Mr Bischofs account and I de-
cided perhaps his evidence was going to
outweigh people who had made state-
ments. Mr Grove swore that during
1961 he had frequently visited the
National Hotel and he had sometimes
drank on after 10 p.m. He had remained
in the lounge until 3 a.m. more than
once.
He was followed into the witness box
by TV announcer and intervewer Brian
Muir, who had been named by Grove as
an after-hours drinker. Muir confirmed
Grove’s story.
This week the Commissioner was
scheduled to hear the final addresses of
counsel, but it will be some weeks before
his report from the mass of evidence will
be ready.
Meanwhile Mr Bischof could go back
to running his department and in his off-
duty hours to his hobbies of bowling,
surfing, fishing and gardening.


another
SUCCESS
for Australian
scientists
Scientists at the Australian Wool
Board and the C.5.1.R.0. have de-
veloped a new process that super-
imposes on wool’s natural qualities
an in-built elasticity which allows
the fabric to stretch and recover its
original shape without sagging or
bagging. Other stretch wool fabrics
are now being developed.
Stretch Wools impart much greater
freedom of movement and comfort
never before possible.
Garments made from Stretch Wool
fabrics which have been tested and
approved as conforming with the
specifications laid down by the
Australian Wool Board will carry
the red seal reproduced here.
This seal is your protection
TESTED AND APPROVED FOR STRETCH
AUSTRALIAN WOOL BOARD 2882


The Palm Beach Story
" Very cliquey"
By DAVID McNICOLL
Palm Beach is a narrow strip of sand
and bushland lying between Pitt-
water and the Pacific Ocean. Its
front, or ocean side, faces a restless
surf; its rear, or Pittwater side, only a
hundred yards or so away, faces a wide,
smooth expanse of untroubled water.
The North-Easter blows a little too
strongly in the afternoon; the sand has
a clinging viscous quality; the surf is
seldom without seaweed and storm water
drains empty into it; the public
swimming pool is rather scrofulous; the
traffic is quite intolerable; the surf, as a
surfing proposition, is anything but
satisfactory.
Why then is Palm Beach considered
the most attractive beach-home area in
Australia? (I steadfastly refuse to use
the term “resort”.)
Why have so many of us forsaken it?
And why have so many who forsook it
decided to go back there?
I cannot claim to be a real old Palm
Beach hand. I didn’t know it in the
early days, and I haven’t spent much
time there in recent years. But as a
youth in the 1930 s I spent golden
holidays at the old Curlewis home and
later, in the ’4os, I lived at Palm Beach
for some years and actually built a
dream house which looks at me reproach-
fully whenever I drive past it.
The real “old hands”, the early
originals, will tell you that Palm Beach
has been spoilt. They don’t like the
inrush of the nouveau riche, the roar
of sports cars around the narrow hill
roads, the weekend crush on the beach.
The old hands are fighting a deter-
mined rearguard action to save Palm
Beach from the fate which generally
befalls holiday spots. They have, year
after year, successfully resisted any
attempt to build a hotel in the area (the
nearest is Newport). They have success-
fully forced the removal of the
“permanent” campers from the reserve
adjoining the golf course (some of these
establishments luxuriating in such names
as KUMANAVACHAT, comprised up
to three rooms, on floor boards, with
refrigerators, lounge suites and double
beds).
The old hands have met their reverses.
They failed to prevent traffic from going
any further along the beach front than
Howlett’s Store, for instance. But, all in
all, Palm Beach’s conservative coterie
have been able to keep the place
reasonably quiet, reasonably exclusive,
moderately well-behaved, and the general
standard of house very high.
You have to seek people of fairly
advanced years to hear about early Palm
Beach. Many of the originals have gone,
and the memories of others are fading.
But you can draw from their minds a
picture of what must have been an
idyllic spot in the early days of this
century.
Getting to Palm Beach before World
War I was a real operation. If you
lived on the North Shore you took a
train to Milson’s Point, a ferry to the
Quay, another ferry to Manly, tram to
Narrabeen, coach to Newport, then
Agar’s launch from Newport to Palm
Beach. Or you could go by train
to Brooklyn, and take Izzard’s launch
down the Hawkesbury to Palm Beach.
It all took fortitude, and when cars
started to be used, it often took strength
when they bogged, or tyres blew, and
chains had to be put on.
But the glory of Palm Beach in those
days quite compensated for the worries
and tribulations of the trip. It was a
paradise of trees, flowers, and wild life.
Koalas, which are rarely seen now, were
commonplace. And wildflowers were
everywhere between the superb red-
trunked gums which are the hall-mark
of Palm Beach.
It was a fairly primitive hurricane-
lamp life in those early days, but interest
in Palm Beach was growing, and the
first land sale was held in 1912. The
first house was built by James Robson
Scott, on the saddle between the front
and back beaches, and his daughter Mrs
K. D. Jones still lives there. Soon after-
wards, more houses appeared the
Mackays, the Wilshires, the Chorley’s
(now the Cabbage Tree Club).
Barrenjoey Light had been blinking
away for many years, and the lighthouse
keeper would alert the Customs agent
(whose small cottage was tucked on the
hillside near the Robson Scotts). The
lighthouse keeper was Mr Gow, and his
son, when he returned as a lieutenant
from World War I, went into business
with his batman, Reg Howlett, in the
first Palm Beach store, Gow & Howletts.
Provisions and bread would come by
launch down the Hawkesbury, milk


would be collected by billy at Hitch-
cock’s (where the Golf Club now stands),
and fresh fish and lobsters would be
bought direct from the fishermen who
sheltered in small shanties round the
foot of Barrenjoey.
Many of the Palm Beach pioneers
and their descendants still own houses
at the beach—the Maitlands, Ralstons,
Curlewises, among them. Although many
houses have been rebuilt, round the
quieter corners of Palm Beach you will
find many houses dating from the ’2os.
There is Halcyon (I remember Billy
Hughes shouting his way through one
Christmas as its tenant); the old Pratten
house, Tidapa; the beautiful old place
built by Mr Rayner (who owned a
restaurant over the Lane Cove wharf),
which now belongs to Canadian Rudolph
Mueller. Mr Mueller has become the
most fervid conscience of Palm Beach,
and over the years has fought grimly to
preserve the beauty and amenities of
the outpost.
The rise of Palm Beach to fashionable
acceptance really started when the four
doctors built their houses on the ridge
looking down to the rough in the
morning light and the still in the evening
light.
There were four of them—Drs Thring,
Bullmore, Craig and Godsall, and their
little ridge became known as “Pill Hill”.
Their houses are still there, and some
are still “in the family”. But where
these medicos would have looked out
on wooded slopes, today they would see
among the trees hundreds of roofs, red,
green, blue and white.
The spec, builders
Tt will probably come as a surprise to
most people to learn that there is no
real luxury in Palm Beach homes.
Compared with the houses at Sorrento
and Portsea’s Golden Mile, or with the
houses at Mount Eliza, they are almost
shanty-simple. Furnishing is generally
utilitarian and “beachy”, beds scatter in
profusion round verandahs, meals are
eaten in kitchen nooks and servants
(except for a few nannies or aged house-
keepers) are the exception rather than
the rule. There is no dressing up, and the
emphasis is rather blatantly on in-
formality in attire. Cars are left un-
ceremoniously to the ravages of the salt
air in driveways and roads, but seldom
under cover. Certain food deliveries are
made, but most inhabitants make regular
visits to the P.J. Stores, or the ice
merchant, or the apothecary’s establish-
ment of Mr Alf. Curtis.
Most fun is in the homes, as it always
has been. There are clubs of course.
The Cabbage Tree has its share of
jollity, and the Pacific Club maintains
an air of dignity mixed with informality,
rather like a Girl Guide who has been
goosed by a playful passer-by but who
wants to be a jolly good sport about it all.
Over on the “still” side is the RSL
Club, where the “local permanents”
gather. Here you will meet your plumber,
your builder, your milkman, your SP
operator, your garage mechanic, your
doctor and a scattering of the “hillites”
as well.
Palm Beach has two or three restaur-
ants really fish cafes. The fish,
naturally, is always fresh. The fishermen
operate out of Pittwater, and, besides the
commercial catching, will turn on out-
ings for the young gentry—long, delight-
fully boozy days starting at 5 a.m. in
the blaze of the new sun and ending
during the afternoon when the amateur
fishermen, lips cracked and eyes red-
rimmed, divide up the baskets of bream
and trevally and nannygai. Or do I
dream?
When I talk of the simplicity of the
life and the homes at Palm Beach, I
hope I do not give the impression that,
as beach houses, they are inadequate.
Far from it. Many of them are mag-
nificent. There are, alas, many suburban
cottages which spec, builders have
erected under the impression that what
goes at Bankstown goes at P.B.
But Sydney's architects have done some
great work at Palm Beach, and there are
dozens of homes where ingenuity and
beauty have been wedded in a startlingly
effective way.
There are, too, some ghastly edifices,
monuments to classic lack of taste. But
the profusion of semi-tropic growth goes
a long way towards healing the sores
of misplaced suburbia. Gardens flourish
at Palm Beach. Bananas, frangipanni,
jacaranda, oleander, hibiscus, paw paws,
occasional mango and avocado trees,
giant ferns and tangling tropical vines.
Arthur Browning, the “society book-
maker” whose house (known to some as
Hernia Hill) sits on the side of a steep
incline, has a winding walk of lush
tropic growth through which the sun-
light barely filters and the sound of cars
only a hundred yards away are almost
completely deadened.
Perhaps to the public the best known
of the Palm Beach houses is the
“Hordern” house; the second best known,
the “Coles” house. The Hordern house.
sits in a large area of lawn at the
southern end of the beach. It has for
years been keenly sought as a summer
letting proposition.
I recall the buzz of talk twenty odd
years ago when the late George Falkiner
paid £35 a week for the Hordern house
in high summer. It was a fantastic price
as though Aly Khan were paying
£IOOO a week for some villa at Cap
d’Antibes. But today poof! If you
want a house practically any decent
house atlpilm Beach—your mid-summer
rentals will start at £35.
One of the secrets of Palm Beach’s
comparative exclusiveness is that it cannot
be approached from the North. There
is only one way to get to the little sand-
spit, and that is from the South. If Palm
Beach had been set on a North-South
Road, I feel the battle to keep a hotel
out would have been lost long ago.
Hectic
nPHERE are lots of characters at Palm
Beach. Many of them have prosper-
ed with the beach. Johnny Hawkes, who
ran a small kiosk, and rented out surfo-
planes while he between times let the
golden sun pour down on him, is now
an established Palm Beach business-
man. Reg Howlett, who has left Palm
Beach, finished his years of cheerful toil
a comfortably fixed gentleman with real
estate holdings on the peninsula. The
local real estate agents, if one can
believe local gossip, are not experiencing
any financial stringency. The same
applies to most of the local tradespeople.
Their lives are good, and their business
fairly steady summer and winter, because
these days a majority of Palm Beach
houses are occupied the year round (it
is said that the temperature in winter
is 5-10 degrees higher than Sydney).
The summer season at Palm Beach
can be very hectic. You build up your
health by day and destroy it by night.
Quite apart from the youthful “rorts”
which carry on throughout the nights at
the beach-front clubs, the entertaining
in the private houses is continuous and
solid.
Palm Beach is very cliquey. Some
people who built lavish houses there
ten years ago, and who throw money
around as though it is shortly to become
unfashionable, have never met the so-
called society leaders of Palm Beach.
Nor have they been able to join the
Cabbage Tree or Pacific Clubs. It should
not worry these people if they came to
Palm Beach for its beauty and climate
—but it obviously does. You can go
out night after night to parties at Palm
Beach and you will see the same faces
every night. Many people merely
transfer to the beach the entertainment
of the identical people they entertain in
town. Beneath its informal air of gaiety,


I !..! I
COGEDAR LINE
11l
HONOLULU, HILO
& TAHITI
ALSO CALLING AT AUCKLAND,
SUVA, SAVU SAVU, BORA-BORA,
& RAROTONGA, WITH 5 DAYS IN
HONOLULU-4 DAYS IN TAHITI
JUNE-JULYJ964
Enjoy every comfort aboard the luxury, one-
class liner T.V. FLAVIA; the finest European
or Australian Cuisine, air-conditioning
throughout, stabilizers for smooth sailing,
and cabins with their own private facilities.
FARES FROM £345
See any authorised Travel Agent or Cogedar Line
General Agent: H. C. Sleigh Limited
Melbourne • Sydney • Brisbane • Adelaide • Hobart • A.P.T. Shipping Pty. Ltd., Perth
539-63
SUVA
SAVU SAW
HONOLULU
W HILO
SYDNEY
TAHITI
BORA-BORA
MELBOURNE
AUCKLAND
RAROTONGA
snobbery is rampant at Palm Beach and
only among the young, sporting in the
surf or on the beach does it seem to
disperse. Sex has no barriers.
The Elanora Country Club is an im-
portant part of the Palm Beach summer.
Set just above Narrabeen, this glorious
club is close enough to Palm Beach to
be used in conjunction with it. Nothing
is more pleasant than to swim and surf
in the morning, then drive to Elanora
for lunch and golf in the afternoon.
Elanora is for many Palm Beachers a
link with comfort during the summer,
somewhere to go and forget about pre-
paring meals.
What do land and houses cost at P-B.
these days? My wife bought a block for
£BO in 1941 which would bring £ISOO
today.
£2OO a foot
T>alm Beach’s biggest real estate shock
was when the block next to Mr Ern-
est Turnbull's sold for £BOOO. That sent
values soaring to crazy heights. Now a
friend of mine has been offered a 70ft
frontage alongside his house (which he
would need only to protect his view) for
£6OOO. The land in Pacific Road, on
the hillside, brings £l2O a foot. But the
real prices are being paid for the water-
front land in Uuka Road on the Pitt-
water side. Graham Pratten can recall
this land going at £3 a foot, thirty odd
years ago. Today it brings in excess of
£2OO a foot.
Houses vary in cost, according to the
usual qualifications, but principally be-
cause of position. A good house, with a
good view, costs between £12,000 and
£IB,OOO. One of the “show” houses
was bought a couple of years ago by
a quixotic character for £28,000. It went
on the market for £40,000, then when
nobody would even come at £30,000 was
made available at the price originally
paid. It is still not sold. But, out of the
blue, a purchaser could arrive who has
“discovered” Palm Beach, and the house
would go for cash in an hour. That’s
the way real estate is at Palm Beach—
quite unpredictable, quite fluid, weak
when it looks strong, strong when it
looks weak.
I like Palm Beach, but I wouldn’t go
there to live again. The traffic on the
roads has ruined it for commuters. And
if an expressway goes through, the
peninsula will merely become another
Manly. I am happy that I knew it in
the comparatively “olden” days of the
’thirties, when you would wind your
phone and ask for a number, and the
old postmistress wquld say: “No good
ringing them. They’re all out. I think
they’ve gone to the so-and-so’s for cock-
tails.”
There was something very appealing
about Palm Beach in those days.


MODBURY ESTATE
WHITE BURGUNDY
1
: i96.i
¥»Nt A<-t
2*5
WM
jo D BURY ESTATi
(pTE BURGUK^
This full, rich, white
wine has been pres-
sed from selected
Semilion grapes
grown on the gently
contoured vineyard
slopes of Modbury
Estate which nestles
in the Adelaide
foot-hills. The ap-
pealing fragrance
and flavour of
this wine, served
cool, enhances
the enjoyment
of cheese, sea-
food, veal and
poultry.
as
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. P/L.; MELBOURNE
•SSi
MU
The Defence Bureaucracy
What has gone wrong in Canberra
By BRIAN BEDDIE
1N contrast to the position in many
other countries, we in Australia have
paid remarkably little attention to
the changes in civilian-military relations
that have been occurring in our society.
In this paper, I hope to show that sub-
stantial changes have occurred since we
undertook a rearmament programme in
1950. The changes, however, have come
about in a piecemeal manner, conducive
neither to the full efficiency nor the
effective political control of defence
activities. We tend, in other words, to
leave defence too much in the hands
of certain experts, without enquiring
closely enough whether the right experts
are in the right places and whether,
more particularly, those possessing pro-
fessional military knowledge are given
sufficient opportunity to press their
views at the highest political level. At
the same time we neglect the close
relationships that exist between defence
policy and public opinion.
When the Liberal Government under-
took rearmament in 1950 it had at its
disposal, largely as a legacy from the
war, an extensive and apparently rational
defence organisation. By 1951 six de-
T)rofessor Beddie delivered a paper
at the recent Institute of Political
Science Summer School, held in Can-
berra, entitled “Australian Foreign
Policy and Defence The Internal
Political Problems.” Because of its
importance we are publishing this
condensation of some of the main
parts of his paper.
payments —Defence, Navy, Army, Air,
Supply and Defence Production were
all directly concerned with defence.
Other departments participated in the
defence effort. Through its Defence
Division, Treasury exercised special
financial control over Service estimates
and expenditures; by virtue of its
newly acquired Cabinet secretarial func-
tions, the Prime Minister's Department
had a general interest in defence co-
ordination; Labour and National Service
participated in the National Service
Training Scheme. Within or attached to
this machinery there was an abundance
of committees of which some of the
most important were concerned with
matters of economic, financial and
business co-ordination. Finally, to but-
tress the whole structure, the Govern-
ment, at the end of 1950, brought into
existence a National Security Resources
Board consisting of the Prime Minister
as chairman, senior civil servants from
the Commonwealth and States, men
prominent in industry and trade unions
and a full-time executive member.
Despite this elaborate machinery, co-
ordination in defence policy was notably
absent at least until the late 19505. At
the most general level there was a failure
to co-ordinate military and economic
planning. The defence authorities began
by putting forward elaborate and detailed
military programmes. To the “civilian”,
especially, the economic experts, these
programmes appeared often to be far too
ambitious in the sense that they made
exorbitant demands upon economic
resources. More seriously still, the
civilians claimed that military pro-
grammes were unintelligible, presented
in a form which made it impossible to
determine the various economic resources
that would be required to fulfil them.
The Defence authorities replied by
advocating a tightening of the civilian
belt to the point where their require-
ments for mobilisation could be met.
Within the defence establishment itself,
the Defence Department, traditionally so
powerful in Australia, was apparently
no longer able to co-ordinate the
activities of the Service departments or
to curb inter-Service rivalries. At the
level of the Service departments
coherent planning was hindered by the
absence of fruitful co-operation between
the permanent heads, responsible for
finance and political advice, and the
Service members of the Boards. The
Departments of Supply and Defence
Production failed to keep within their
estimates of costs and of dates of avail-
ability.
The Government sought to remedy
these difficulties by introducing a number
of reforms. Within the Service depart-
ments greater financial authority and a
greater power of general co-ordination
were conferred upon each of the civilian
permanent heads. Both the Service
departments and the Department of
Defence were encouraged to enter into
closer consultation with their business
advisers. Treasury control was tightened
and, most importantly of all, when the
Government, at the end of 1953, turned
from its objective of mobilisation to
the policy of the “long haul'’, annual
defence expenditure was fixed at £2oom.
as a maximum figure. On the face of
the matter, each of these decisions was
reasonable at the time.
When the Public Accounts Committee
held its inquiry into defence expenditure
in 1956 it was clear that the Govern-
ment’s reforms up to that date had not
achieved their objectives. The dramatic
revelation made before the committee
by the Secretary of Defence was that
Australia was ready for mobilisation
neither in 1953 nor in 1956.
The Government again moved to
remedy the situation, first, by increasing
the authority of the Minister for
Defence, and, secondly, by bringing the
Departments of Treasury. Prime Mini-
ster’s and External Affairs more directly
into defence planning.
Eventually, at the end of 1957, the
Government, now under fierce Press
attacks for the deficiencies in its defence
effort, set up the Morshead Committee
to inquire into the higher organisation
of defence.
Unfortunately the committee’s report
has been kept secret, but we know from
the Prime Minister’s statement that it
recommended far-reaching changes, in-


eluding the abolition of the three Service
Ministries and departments and the
integration of the latter’s functions within
the Department of Defence. There
should, it argued, be a single Minister
for Defence assisted by two associate
ministers.
The Government accepted without
amendment only one minor recommen-
dation of the committee —the merging
of the Department of Defence Produc-
tion into the Department of Supply. On
the major issue of administrative integra-
tion, it decided to retain the separate
Service departments and ministers but
greatly to strengthen, by administrative
direction, the co-ordinating and, indeed,
the controlling authority of the Minister
and Department of Defence. The Prime
Minister also announced that the Chiefs
of Staff Committee would be strength-
ened in order to ensure that its advice
on purely military matters could be
directly presented to the Government.
At the same time, to encourage co-
ordination between the three Services, it
was decided to add a fourth member, to
be known as the Chairman, to the Chiefs
of Staff Committee.
Although in the debate on the report
of the Morshead Committee the Mini-
ster for External Affairs stated that the
Government’s compromise measures
were only an intermediate step towards
further reform, there has been no
administrative reorganisation in the
higher organisation of defence since
1958.
There are various grounds for ques-
tioning whether the reform of 1958 has
genuinely solved the problems of co-
ordination so strikingly evident in the
preceding years.
In the first place, the Morshead
Committee apparently did not make
recommendations on the co-ordination
of defence policy at the level of Cabinet
and certainly no major changes have
been made in this connection. And yet
it can be argued that many of the major
deficiencies in our defence effort, both
before and after 1958, can be attributed
to the absence of effective Cabinet
control and of clear lines of ministerial
responsibility.
The British System
Tn Britain and elsewhere it has been
recognised for the last 60 years at least
that matters of defence policy cannot
be dealt with effectively in full Cabinet,
but require to go before a committee
on which Ministers and defence experts
have the right of membership. In
theory Australia has< for long accepted
the British view that effective Cabinet
co-ordination and control of defence
requires special arrangements. In
practice Australian Cabinets have failed
to develop established procedures either
for co-ordinating defence policies with
economic and diplomatic policies or for
bringing professional military advisers
into close and formal consultation with
Cabinet ministers.
The lack of formal contacts between
Cabinet and the Chiefs of Staff has been
in part a function of physical separation,
of the fact that the latter were until 1959
in Melbourne. Even now, however,
there is no Cabinet committee on which
the Chiefs of Staff have the right of
membership, though, of course, they
may, from time to time, appear as
witnesses before Cabinet or its com-
mittees. The highest level at which the
Chiefs of Staff regularly confer with
civilians is the Defence Committee and
here the civilian element consists of
senior public servants the permanent
heads of Defence, External Affairs,
Prime Minister’s and Treasury. The
Defence Committee is chaired not, as
we might expect, by the Minister for
Defence but by the Secretary of the
Department of Defence. Thus not even
the Minister for Defence directly par-
ticipates in the hard process of drawing
up military plans.
From the point of view of the
Services, absence of efficient co-ordina-
tion at the Cabinet level appears to have
meant, first, very considerable delay in
the reaching of decisions and, secondly,
the making of decisions, especially on
financial cuts, which have prevented
the completion of various programmes
—a serious situation in military affairs
where the need for completion is often
much greater than in civilian affairs.
Aircraft without proper servicing or
ships without adequate docking facilities
may be of very little use.
From a broader point of view,
absence of effective Cabinet co-ordina-
tion may be linked with the serious
divergencies that have occurred between
defence policies on the one hand and
economic and diplomatic policies on the
other hand.
The point might be illustrated by two
important aspects of recent Australian
diplomacy. First, even when allowance
is made for all the complexities and
unforeseen changes that entered into it,
the West New Guinea dispute still seems
to me to stand as a striking instance of
a failure to co-ordinate foreign and
defence policies. If the original state-
ments of 1950 declaring West New
Guinea to be of vital importance to the
defence of Australia were seriously
meant, the Government had but one
path to follow to build up defences
and to win allied support by all possible
means. If the original statements were
not meant seriously there would probably
have been considerable advantage in
explicitly rejecting them and seeking a
negotiated settlement while it was still
possible. As it was, we attempted to
combine vague military threats, based
more on the power of Dutch than Aus-
tralian arms, with the half conciliatory
diplomacy of cold storage. It is plaus-
ible to argue that an effective Cabinet
committee continuously weighing up the
diplomatic and military factors involved
in the situation, could have provided
an alternative to the sorry outcome of
1962.
Diplomacy replaces defence
Oecondly, a consideration of defence
expenditure over the last ten years
casts doubt on the seriousness with which
the Government has sought to co-ordin-
ate its diplomatic and its defence policies.
In this connection we find a marked
disparity between professed and actual
policy. Ministerial statements ever since
1950 have asserted in most positive
language that we cannot expect to
secure our alliances and to obtain help
from Britain and the US, unless we
contribute to our own defence. Yet,
despite extended commitments, our de-
fence expenditure fell away from the
£203 million spent in 1952-53 to
fluctuate between the £l7O and £2OO
million until 1961-62. While officially
we undertook a major defence effort in
order to secure and carry influence in
our alliances, in reality we relied upon
our alliances to relax our defence effort.
Instead of treating defence as comple-
mentary to diplomacy, we treated
diplomacy as a substitute for defence.
The various weaknesses that I have
touched on all point to the relative in-
effectiveness of the military voice in the
formulation of defence policy. It would,
however, be a mistake to explain the
civilian influence in our higher defence
organisation simply in terms of the
desire of civilians or of a rising bureau-
cratic elite to keep the military under
firm control. To a great extent, the
civilians have moved in to help with
problems of co-ordination that the
military themselves were unable to deal
with. If civilian control has extended
too far, part of the explanation may be
that neither the tradition or training of
our military officers nor the extensive
range of duties they are called upon to
perform in the course of their careers,
adequately fits them to take their share
in the making of defence policy. Cer-


WPG4S/63
Keep
fully
nL-.
informed!
Get your
f personalised
| Product and Data Manual—
'phone Mr. Service at any
W.-P. & G. office, or check.clipout
"and post with your letterhead.
□ Test Equipment —including
Dynamometers, Special Plant for
Testing, Testing and Measurement
Machines.
□ Drives and Brakes (Variable Speed)
—including
Controlled, Programmed, Synchronising,
etc.
□ Steam and Drying Equipment
—including
Generators, Cleaners and Space'
Heaters.
□ Chemical Compounds and Equipment
—including
Cleaning and Processing.
□ Materials, Industrial—including
Friction, Anti-friction, and Mechanical
Packings and Seals.
□ Pneumatic and Hydraulic Equipment
■ —including
Pneumatic Service Equipment,
Hydraulic Hoses and Couplings, Rings
and Seals.
□ Fastenings, Industrial and Construction
• —including
Production Blind Riveting Systems,
Cartridge Powered System and Stud
Welding.
□ Tools, Machine and Hand —including
Bandsaw and Grinding Machines,
Blading, Carboloy Cemented Carbides,.
Engineers’ Files and High Speed
Cutting Tools.
P Steel, Alloy and Specialty —including
Hollow Bar, Tubes and Pipes, Bars
and Rods, etc., and other Specials
and Custom Alloys.
Call your man today at
W-P&G
tainly there seems to be a high degree of
what is currently called "conformism”
among most senior and many junior
officers. There is an urgent need for a
review of conditions of service and train-
ing designed to encourage the develop-
ment of a proper spirit of professional-
ism within the Services.
There is, then, a case for a further
reform of the higher organisation
of defence in Australia. Now that
Britain has moved to administrative
integration, it is possible that the matter
will be given official consideration for,
in defence organisation as in defence
policy, we tend to act mainly in response
to changes in Britain and America. It
might be hoped, however, that we would
neither automatically follow the British
or, for that matter the American model
nor implement the change as a simple
administrative reform as was done in
1958. Reform should rather be preceded
by an extensive public report, or even
series of reports, which would uncover
the specifically local problems that have
developed within our defence structure.
To achieve this end, the investigation
would need to range a good deal more
widely than that conducted by the Mors-
head Committee —upwards to the region
of Cabinet control, downwards to the
Service boards, outwards to Treasury
control.
The West Irian Dispute
Tn criticising the failure of the Gov-
ernment to co-ordinate defence and
foreign policy in the West Irian dispute
and within our alliances, I suggested that,
had its machinery of control been more
effective, it might have acted differently.
But the criticism clearly neglected one
important factor. Governments may
know perfectly well what should be done
to co-ordinate policies but, for political
reasons (e.g., reasons of public opinion
or reasons of party tradition), may not be
able to act on the basis of their know-
ledge. During the 1950 s public opinion
(so far as we can speak of such a vague
entity) supported both the withholding
of West New Guinea from Indonesia
and the fixing of defence expenditure at
a limit of £2OO million per annum.
Again, though public opinion apparently
favored the policy of co-operating in the
defence of South-East Asia, a policy
that requires highly trained, mobile
forces, it nevertheless retained a strong
belief in the value of lightly-trained
civilian soldiers. As a result, National
Service Training continued into 1960
although, in the form in which it existed,
it had probably lost all relevance to
Australian strategy after 1953 and had
certainly become a serious burden to the
Regular Army.
Clearly the intelligent co-ordination of
defehce policy is possible only when
there exists an interested public opinion
relatively free of fixed dogmas about
defence. But, especially in foreign affairs
and defence, public opinion is not
something that is simply given. To a
considerable degree it can be formed
and articulated by the two organs
primarily responsible for policy the
Government and Parliament.
In 1950 and 1951 the Government
made a genuine effort to establish close
contacts with public opinion in the field
of foreign affairs and defence. There-
after, because of internal and external
factors, the effort was progressively
abandoned. Security controls, justified
only in part by events like the Petrov
case, served to create a barrier between
the interested public and developments
in external affairs and defence. One con-
sequence of this policy has been that the
public has remained largely ignorant of
the more serious predicaments with
which the Government has had to
grapple since that date.
Few, least of all most Parliamentarians,
would seriously claim that Parliament is
effective in the fields of foreign policy
or defence. The factors that make it
ineffective in these fields include of
course those that make it generally in-
effective—its smallness, the rigidity of
the party system, the number of its
sitting days and so on. There are, how-
ever, special factors that reduce its con-
tribution in foreign policy and defence:
first, absence of information; secondly,
absence of effective standing and ad hoc
committees, and, thirdly, the irresponsi-
bility of the Opposition.
Under present-day conditions one of
the most serious weaknesses of our
system of responsible government is that
we make the Executive the sole judge
of what is to be classified as secret and
that the classification is allowed to stand
for at least 50 years. The result is that,
in fields where there is admittedly a
relatively large amount of secret
material, the classification of information
is extended to cover all matters, in-
cluding even administrative matters,
which have political implications. The
result is that ministerial statements on
foreign affairs and defence are not only
infrequent but are so bureaucratically
processed as to exclude, wherever
possible, invitation to critical and in-
formative debate.
There are certain aspects of defence
and foreign affairs which obviously lend
themselves to control through parlia-
mentary committees. In the field of
defence there are a number of acts of
parliament and a great number of regu-
lations. There is, however, no standing
committee to deal with them and only
very occasionally have ad hoc com-
mittees undertaken this work. The result
is that a great amount of defence legis-
lation is either out of date or inappropri-
ate to existing conditions.


•ly.vXx.v/
a-
m
i
m
m
'■mm
m
iiiii
/
XSXWJWMWtoto:
ST
#
KS
18&
4
V;;:;
Ji
•:K V
f
PROFIT NEWS from W-P&G
Laboratory engine test on small interna! combustion engine.
Froude Hydraulic Dynamometer
size G 4 350 b.h.p., speeds 2,000/6,000 r.p.m.
Throughout the world - a Heenan & Froude Engine Test
mm
MS
s&a,
FREE PERSONALISED “PRODUCT
AND DATA MANUAL”
Here’s a wealth of information on
products that you use to im-
prove efficiency and increase
profits. Contact your man today
at Westeels-Paul & Gray for your
personalised copy.
is accepted proof of performance!
For over 80 years Heenan & Froude have been manufacturing
Dynamometers. This experience is your guarantee of reliability.
All Heenan & Froude test plants are capable of meeting the most stringent
requirements.
Special designs will be undertaken to meet specific requirements and complete
test-house equipment can be supplied. F6r full details of all aspects of the
Ffeenan & Froude dynamometers and test plant, call your man today at
Westeels - Paul &Gray
BRISBANE—Phone 5-2271. 822 Ann Street, Valley. NEWCASTLE —Phone 2-1595. Cnr. Scott & Bolton Streets.
SYDNEY —Phone 648-0199. 31-33 Parramatta Road, Lidcombe. MELBOURNE—Phone 211-6961. 1056 Dandenong Road, Carnegie.
ADELAIDE—Phone 65-9021. 165 Main North Road, Nailsworth.
WPGB9/6J


Whether these or other committees
should also have the power to investigate
and report on policy raises more contro-
versial issues. In moving for the establish-
ment of a Foreign Affairs Committee
in 1951, the Government still revealed
great concern lest it should affect the
security of External Affairs information
or the Minister’s responsibility for policy.
Hence the Committee was placed very
firmly under the control of the Minister.
It was to meet in camera, to consider
only such matters as were referred to
it by the Minister and to report only
to him.
It could send for persons, papers and
records only with the consent of the
Minister. In return, a certain amount
of restricted information would be made
available to it. Though the Opposition
refused to join a committee so subject
to ministerial control, it has functioned,
with only a slight extension in its powers
for twelve years.
On balance, I think it must be said
that the committee has not proved a
useful precedent for increasing parlia-
ment’s authority in the field of foreign
affairs and defence. It is so subordinate
to the Minister and the Department as
almost to reverse the proper relation-
ship between Parliament and the
Executive. Its published reports, few
in number and unimpressive in quality,
indicate that it has been steered away
from issues of central importance.
The irresponsibility of the Opposition
in foreign policy and defence is in part
a product of the factors already touched
upon. An Opposition which is deprived
of a flow of information and whose
leaders are not brought into regular
consultation with the Government is
almost bound to treat irresponsibly what
bits and pieces of information come
into its possession. Though irresponsi-
bility is not confined to Labor, it is
well exemplified by it.
Need for criticism
npHE irresponsibility of Labor in opposi-
tion is often connected with its
partisanship and this, indeed, was a
charge levelled against it by the Liberals
in debates on the establishment of a
Foreign Affairs Committee. They argued
that Australia needs bipartisanship in
foreign policy and defence. If there is
anything in the line of argument I have
been following, bipartisanship is pre-
cisely what we do not want. We need
insistent criticism pointing to weaknesses
that. might be corrected in present
policies and opening up the possibility of
alternative policies.
It is precisely here, however, that
Labor as a party fails, though, of course,
individual members may succeed. And
it fails not because it selects the wrong
issues for criticism but because it refuses
to define the limits within which it will
press its criticisms. It fluctuates between
claiming to be divided from the Govern-
ment by a gap as wide as the Grand
Canyon, as Mr Calwell put it, and
relatively close endorsement of Govern-
ment policies. This fluctuation is, in a
sense, strange because the common
ground between Labor and the Govern-
ment was laid down clearly when Labor
was in power between 1941 and 1949
and it has subsequently been constantly
re-stated and even written into the
radical platforms of the years between
1955 and 1961. The common ground is
co-operation with the British Common-
wealth and the necessity of security
relations with the USA. Assuming that
Labor’s intention was to take a firm
stand on this common ground, there are
strands within its history which would
equip it to undertake consistent and
thorough criticism of Government policy.
Generally speaking, however, Labor
has not developed any such consistent
line and the reason appears to have been
that it has never fully accepted the
fundamental principles it has so often
proclaimed, namely co-operation with
Britain and the USA. Consequently
ambiguity and instability have been the
characteristics of its policy over the last
14 years. On most fundamental issues—
ANZUS, SEATO, defence expenditure—
it has either formally supported or failed
formally to oppose the Government in
Parliament. On the other hand, both
within Parliament and before the elec-
torate, it has conducted a kind of
guerrilla campaign against these and
other Government policies. In some
cases there have been marked incon-
sistencies within very short periods.
SEATO was not formally opposed in
1954 but in 1955 it became Labor policy
to convert it into something quite dif-
ferent and this continued to be so until
it was apparently again accepted in
1963. Labor has never voted against a
defence budget, but in 1955 it did go to
the electorate on a platform of reducing
defence expenditure by £4O to £5O
millions.
At the beginning of this paper I
emphasised the controversial character
of all major decisions on defence policy.
Nevertheless, when a country through
its Government has committed itself to
certain broad but definite policies there
can be criticism of the failure to follow
the policies through. In the last decade
the Government has never ceased to
stress the constant menace of Com-
munism and the growing instability of
large parts of Asia. On these assump-
tions, the appropriate response on Aus-
tralia’s part would surely have been a
defence effort expanding more or less
pari passu with the rise in national in-
come. In fact, however, during these
ten years defence expenditure was sub-
jected to rigid financial limitations.
Bureaucratic control
A gain the Government has placed
strong emphasis on the importance
of the responsible ministerial control of
defence activities, and this indeed was
the chief ground on which it rejected
the recommendations of the Morshead
Committee. In reality, however, defence
has to a marked degree fallen under
the control of the bureaucracy—a de-
velopment favorable neither to initiative
in military affairs, nor to the effective
co-ordination of major aspects of policy,
nor to the parliamentary control of
matters of fundamental national im-
portance.
Finally, though the Government has
stressed the need to reinsure formal
diplomatic arrangements by specific
military commitments, in fact it has con-
tinued to rely on diplomacy as the
essential basis of Australian security.
The dangers inherent in this situation
have been officially admitted and great
emphasis has been placed on the need to
reinsure diplomatic understandings by
firm military commitments. But, does
the Government genuinely believe in
closing the gap between diplomacy and
firm military commitments so far as it
can be closed? Has it not acted rather
on the belief that, since the gap cannot
be completely closed, we may as well
make a virtue of necessity and continue
to rely essentially on diplomacy?
Diplomacy has advantages. It is in-
expensive, its demands on man-power
are small and, for a nation that until
quite recently did not practice it, it
supplies a special exhilaration connected
with the attainment of sovereign in-
dependence. But diplomacy, it cannot be
too strongly emphasised, is a largely in-
strumental activity which in itself effects
no significant changes in the real world.
And though, even today, it by no means
depends exclusively on a military back-
ing for its efficacy, there has never been
a time when the interdependence
between diplomacy and defence has
been as great as it now is. But it has so
far made a less than serious impact on
political thinking and governmental
organisation in Australia.


: 5;
For you . . .
only the best
ASAHI
Here's the camera that is the ultimate choice
of discriminating professional and enthusiastic
amateur photographers all over the world; the
camera that brings you picture perfection and
personal prestige!
Asahi PENTAX introduces you to a new world
of photographic delightl A wide choice of
incomparable Takumar lenses and a full range
of accessories puts you in command of every
photographic situation.
Asahi PENTAX SV with f/1.8 Takumar
Lens and E.R. case, £9O/0/0.
Asahi PENTAX S.I.A. with Auto.
Super Takumar f/2 Lens and E.R. case,
£75/0/0.
Ask to see Asahi PENTAX at YOUR photo
dealer.
C. 957
MOTORING
The Big Month of
Motor Racing
Overseas stars for Australian and NZ circuits
By BOADICEA
Every year at this time the eyes of
the motor sporting world are
focused on Australasia, and maga-
zines in Europe, England and America
carry stories relating the fortunes of
world-famous drivers and their cars in
the “Down Under” series of races. The
series is composed of four New Zealand
races, Auckland and Levin in the North
Island and Christchurch and Inver-
cargill in the South; and four Australian
races, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Launceston.
Depending on the popularity of an
imported driver and sometimes on his
relationship with local promoters, ap-
pearance money for the series can range
between £6OOO and £lO,OOO to be paid
in sterling currency. Some of the less
worldly promoters, appalled at the
thought of paying so much money to a
driver, soothe themselves by calling the
money “travelling expenses”. However,
much of the money goes straight into
the drivers’ local bank accounts for,
apart from air fares, and these are
usually paid by oil companies, and minor
shipping costs, the drivers’ expenses are
little more than they would be at home.
Two regular “down under” campaigners,
Jack Brabham and Bruce McLaren, are
“down unders” by birth and make visits
to their families and friends coincide
with the business on hand. Their
mechanics are either New Zealanders or
Australians for whom the trip home is
a bonus after the hectic world champion-
ship series.
Foreign drivers who make the journey
are generally “works” drivers, having
car and mechanic supplied, and take a
large slice of the “expense” money. How
much they put aside is determined by
the size of their retinue.
For some years now this Australasian
tour has been idyllic for the visitors.
The local opposition has merely provided
a backdrop against which the stars have
sparkled in their easy brilliance and
without undue exertion. Brightest star
was motor racing’s golden boy Stirling
Moss who would fly in to the main races
of the series, usually win and fly out
again leaving an aura of unreality about
the whole affair. Jim Clarke, who has
successfully donned Moss’s magic mantle,
made a brief appearance in Melbourne
a couple of years ago and was hardly
noticed in an under-powered car. His
visit this year would have swelled the
gates but as a “works” driver without
a suitable car for the local “Tasman”
formula Clarke is unavailable. Dedi-
cated, unbending, prickly John Surtees,
whose driving impressed Australians on
his two visits, is in a similar position to
Clarke. The choice of promoters falls
back invariably on Brabham and Mc-
Laren who, because of their unique con-
structing abilities, are able to equip
themselves with race-winning cars.
In the past this pair have belabored
the locals with their more modern and
powerful equipment and then sold their
cars to the highest local bidders, who
have had six months racing among them-
selves before the visitors came again
with still better and faster cars. It began
some years ago when Brabham came
here with Coopers always of a bigger
engine capacity than those of the locals.
These engines grew steadily from 1500
c.c. to 2750 c.c. and it wasn’t till last
year that the visitors faced comparable
horsepower. Suddenly they found two
local drivers, Stillwell and McKay,
among them with newly-imported cars
and although unused to their mounts the
home-side drivers acquitted themselves
well. Then the controlling body took a
tardy hand in matters and wisely laid
down a 2.5-litre formula on commercial
fuel for the Tasman races, as the Aus-
tralasian series is now called. This
means that for the first time engine size
is limited and visitors and locals alike


amilmniuniiiii
~ CEmiriEO MAH
U 8 1 0.11
?iiNimiiiiiiiiinn
ng
liveny
IFIED
Certified Mail is signed for by the addressee
(or a responsible member of his household
or his authorised agent).
It’s ideal for mailing contracts, deeds,
titles, share scrip and transfers.
The cost is 6d. plus postage and a copy of the
delivery receipt is an additional 9d.
During transit Certified Mail is handled
with your ordinary letters and packets.
Compensation is paid on Registered Mail only.
AUSTRALIAN
POST OFFICE
will line up with at least the same
numbers of cubic centimetres.
The Australian races are expected to
be fiercely fought with visitors Brabham
and McLaren and their two first-class
protegees, Denis Hulme (NZ) and Tim
Mayer (USA), facing Australian cham-
pion Bib Stillwell, Lex Davison, John
Youl and our newest star Frank Matich.
Matich drives the most modern car
among the locals and has already bedded
himself in with Australian and New
Zealand races. Matich and Stillwell con-
stitute the big danger with their first-
class equipment, for although Stillwell’s
car is a year old it has been modernised
with improved suspension. Davison is
always a threat on the faster circuits,
where his heavy throttle foot is backed
by an equally heavy purse. Skilful, hard-
driving John Youl is at home at Warwick
Farm and Lakeside, and so wherever the
visitors look they see very real hurdles
in their way.
And at Warwick Farm and Longford
the locals will be reinforced by the 1962
world champion Graham Hill of London
who has accepted the drive in David
McKay's car. McKay, who for many
years had spearheaded the NSW attack
against the Victorians, has retired from
racing to manage his Scuderia Veloce
which Hill will lead. Hill is rated very
highly as a driver, fast, neat and lion-
hearted, and his presence in the Aus-
tralian team will lend glamor to the
otherwise very familiar names on the
billboards.
Hill, Brabham, Hulme, Stillwell and
Matich will all drive Repco Brabham
cars of various colors and with some
differences in design. McLaren, Mayer,
Davison and Youl use Coopers, Mc-
Laren’s and Mayer’s being the latest type
specially built for these races. Repco
Brabhams and Coopers alike, however,
all owe allegiance to the famous
Coventry Climax four-cylinder 2.5-litre
engine and the majority of the cars use
the Italian Colotti gearbox. That the
stars are not invincible has already been
proven in American sports car racing
over a year ago, where the Americans
stole a march on the visitors and applied
some local rules and local modifications.
The visitors were still recovering from
the shock defeats when they raced here
a year ago and got some more gingering
up.
Brief glory?
year our locals have every chance
-*■ to win the Australian races, but un-
less Australia adheres to its 2.5-litre for-
mula it could well be their briefest glory.
The new 3-litre formula for the World
Championship commences in 1966 and
already there is agitation that Australia
should follow suit and so get on equal
terms. Frankly, Australia can no more
afford the 3-litre formula than our
Defence Department could go in for
large-scale nuclear armaments. Consider
the result if Australia goes to the new
formula. The engines will not be easily
procurable American V-8s but highly
developed V-12s giving over 400 b.h.p.
or roughly 150 b.h.p. more than a 2.7
Climax. These engines will only be avail-
able to big “works” teams as the 1.5
V-8 Climax has in the past. The cost
would be probably more than Aus-
tralians now pay for a complete racing
car and when available would only be
purchasable by the most wealthy. This
all means that while Australia might be
able to stage one World Championship
race a year purely for the overseas stars,
the remainder of the year would see the
local drivers further behind the visitors
than ever before.


Sri
v):‘
i-'v
famous in London since 1740
r 9mdmHs ; L
HIGH & DRY
GIN
Now distilled in Australia
and sold at Australian price!!
r
a
HIGH & DRY!
$0077-/
Pr y cm
772.: ViLCS&As&e^*’*
»
K
/j £
■'Y c '
■ -'A*
/
gsb
ft?*
~ • .\W>
5%
V
a
THAT’S SETTER-THAT’S BOOTHS!”
■■
OUT AND ABOUT
A Bright Young Man
“If I stop to think , it’s fatal "
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Mr Beverley Cross is so resolutely
anti - intellectual that when he
assures you that the English
theatre is currently undergoing a renais-
sance you are almost prepared to believe
that such a thing exists outside the mind
of Sir Laurence Olivier and the columns
of the London Sunday papers.
“I don’t believe in the renaissance,”
Mr Cross says. “I just know it is there.”
Mr Cross could be described as one of
the current crop of bright young men
of the London theatre, although it is
hard to think of a description which he
would loathe more. He is here to get
“Boeing - Boeing” off the ground for
Phillip Productions. It will open at
Hoyt’s Place, Sydney, on February 28.
Mr Cross adapted “Boeing-Boeing” (not
a notable manifestation of the renais-
sance) from the French. The London
production has been running since 1962.
Mr Cross said that proof of the renais-
sance was that 14 London stage pro-
ductions had been transferred intact to
Broadway within the past two years.
The most significant segment was prob-
ably musicals, because that is besting the
Americans at their own game. British
musicals, as English as muffins and tea
and generally as flat and stodgy, have
virtually been unexportable. “In the
tradition of the British music-hall,” is Mr
Cross’s generous description of the genre.
But the break - through came with
“Oliver” and “Stop the World, I Want to
Get Off”, and this year “Blitz”, Joan
Littlewood’s production of “Oh, What a
Lovely War”, and “Half a Sixpence”,
for which Mr Cross wrote the book and
which stars English popular singer
Tommy Steele, go to Broadway.
Mr Cross said he believed a wider
range of people in theatre were taking
an interest in producing musicals in
London, and their possibilities as a
good long-term investment were being
more readily realised by people who put
money into stage productions. But
whereas a musical might cost £60,000
before the curtain goes up, and so needs
substantial backers, a play like “Boeing-
Boeing” could be staged almost by
taking your hat around among your
friends.
“ ‘Boeing-Boeing’ cost £6OOO to stage
originally,” Mr Cross explained. “A
friend of mine put £lOO into it. He has
now got back something like £lOOO and
has paid for his honeymoon and possibly
a deposit on his house out of it. Backing
stage productions is a straight - out
gamble and the odds are estimated at
about eight to one, but to many people
it is more interesting than putting your
money on a horse. People looking for
backers for a play will take £25, perhaps
even £l2 10s.”
Mr Cross’s parents were theatricals
but he says he just drifted into the pro-
fession because he proved unable to
keep a job elsewhere. Elsewhere in-
included the army and the sea. “I
decided that I was unemployable, except
as a free-lance,” he said. (His current
ambition is to get a head full of Ajax
and become a surfie. This ambition is
fostered by th& long, hot days on Bondi,
where, along with the current crop of
English visitors, he is busy acquiring
what will probably prove to be a good
case of skin cancer.)
Mr Cross began his career by writing
and directing a play, “Absalom”, while
he was at Oxford. Then, after trying his
hand outside the theatre, he worked for
the Vieux Colombier, then at Stratford.
Since then he has mostly written or
directed. He believes these two functions
are almost interchangeable, that you
can’t write for the theatre unless you
can direct, and you can’t direct unless
you can write.
“I know Cyril Connolly said that the
only function of a writer is to produce
a masterpiece,” he said, “but the only
way to write for the stage is to know
how a thing will get across. In its early
days the Royal Court approached
novelists and got them to write plays.
Nigel Dennis did ‘Cards of Identity’.
Another novelist who turned to plays
was Angus Wilson with ‘The Mulberry


QUINTET
"Actually my true vocation is garbage-collecting, but
my painting pays the rent!"
"How do YOU deal with the problem of
being Australian?"
"He gave his first chuckle this morning!"


FREE OFFER
TO FRESHEN UP
YOUR
OLD PIPE
FROM BILL KEELING, MASTER BLENDER OF THE
TABAK COMPANY
Confirmed pipe smokers or off-and-on pipe smokers —now is the time to sweeten and
polish your pipes for clean, satisfying smoking. My Tabak men will do the job
expertly. Send your pipe, carefully packed, include a stamp for return (and your
name and address of course) and you'll
find new enjoyment in your old pipe.
There's a catch Tabak wants you to also include an
empty Tabak Limp-tin pouch. If you can't buy Tabak
send a 5/9 Postal Note with your pipe and you'll also
receive 2 oz. of the finest tobacco by return mail plus
the beautiful little booklet “Tobaccos and Pipes" written
from years of experience. (Any pipe-loving reader is
invited to take up this offer.)
PIPE REPAIRS Tabak can tdo them for nothing but if you send along your broken
pipe you will be advised to the cost by return mail for an expert, economical repair.
The pipe smoker has come into his own again. Get your pipes in satisfying smoking
order. Leave it to the Tabak experts.
POST FREE MAIL ORDER '!
Until your local retailer keeps stock, we will supply your needs POST FREE, at
the regular retail price of 5/9. Please give us the name and address of your nearest
tobacconist with your order.
THE TABAK
COMPANY
50 MILLER STREET
NORTH SYDNEY
Phone: 92 8489
ANY HANDYMAN
IVISNI NV3
‘FLOATING ACTION’ garage door fittings
From Hardware stores everywhere t.w/s
Bush’. They just were not good plays.
The thing that went wrong for Nigel
Dennis was that he decided he was a
playwright and not a novelist. He has
kept on trying to write plays and they
don’t get any better.”
On films, Mr Cross is still resolutely
anti-intellectual. “The only ones I am
interested in making are epics and the
only ones I see are epics,” he said. He
pointed out that at the moment no less
than 40 British films, all more or less
along the lines of “The Sporting Life”,
were stockpiled because the distributors
said they simply could not make money
out of that sort of film.
Mr Cross’s epics have included work
with David Lean on the desert action
sequences of “Lawrence of Arabia”, and
writing the screenplays for “Jason and
the Argonauts” and “The Long Ships”.
He said “The Long Ships” was filmed in
Yugoslavia, a popular place for filming,
now that Italy and Spain had virtually
priced themselves out of the market.
“I probably enjoy film-making most of
all,” he said, “simply because technically
it’s the highest craft. The actors may
be awful and so on but it’s wonderful
to work with a good crew. David Lean
says he wants a column of smoke to rise
at a certain time in a certain- distant part
of the desert, and the effects man rides
off in a truck with old tyres in the back
and just at the right moment in the right
place gives Lean that column of smoke.
You can’t get that perfection on the
stage, because you can’t get perfection
every night.”
When Mr Cross returns to England he
will sit in on the production of an opera
at Sadler’s Wells for which he has
written the libretto. It is a story of a
band of actors who went to the West
Country of England to escape the Great
Plague. He will also do the screenplay
for another epic, “The Golden Horde”,
the story of Genghis Khan. “I write
very quickly,” he said. “If I stop and
think, it’s fatal.”


FREE: 2 Booklets: Atomic Motor-
ing Age, Historical Facts, Motor
Repairs, Economy Hints.
NU-MOTO-LIFE NU-METAL (Pat.)
OVERHAULS WHILE-U-DRIVE
REPLATES worn engines, upper
cylds. main bearings, diffs, gears.
SAVES rebore. ENDS piston slap,
rattles, oil/petrol waste. Also
decarbonises. RESTORES new
compression power, top speed
zip. SAVES. Adds fisd to resale
value. GUARANTEED 25,000
miles. No results—no pay. Harm-
less finest engine. SIMPLE. Add
Re-Nu expanding liquid Nu-Moto-
Life Nu-Metal to oil, petrol or
plug holes. Testimonials, en-
gineers' reports, free advice
available. Open Sat. morn. Dis-
tributors required. Sold only by
RE-NU CO. (Estab. 1932). 58
Swan St., opp. Richmond Stn.,
Vic 42-1755. 4, 6. 8 cyls.«
60/-, 70/-, 80/-.
Call, Post, Phone Now.
(ORDER FORM)
I enclose £ for Nu-Metal.
Name
Address ~ "BUL"
or send for free particulars
describing action NU-MOTO-LIFE
i NU-METAL
OVERSEAS
The Year of the Serpent
A coup in Thailand?
From JOHN STIRLING in Bangkok
Officially, Thailand has entered
the year 2507 of the Buddhist era,
but in the countryside many vil-
lagers are not convinced that the New
Year has really begun until the lunar
festival of March 14, which ushers in
the year of the Divine Serpent. Astrolo-
gers predict that the Divine Serpent, or
Naga, which is the symbol of water,
will be good for crops and cattle. But in
Bangkok, the leaders of the country look
towards the Year of the Naga through
narrowed eyes.
Thailand is still in mourning for the
late Marshal Sarit Thanarat, the amiable
“strong man” w'ho directed the country
for the last five years. Power has been
transferred smoothly to General Thanom
Kittikachorn’s Cabinet, which is virtually
the same as Marshal Sarit’s, with the
addition of a few new personalities. While
the body of Marshal Sarit rests in its
golden urn, awaiting the cremation rites
in March, political squabbles in Bang-
kok are considered bad form. But after
that, rivalries which had been checked
by the firm hand of Marshal Sarit may
boil to the surface, breaking the political
truce.
Table talk in the capital invariably
turns to the prospect of a bid for power
by this or that faction of the armed
forces. Although the royal astrologers
have undoubtedly cast the New Year
horoscope of General Thanom’s Govern-
ment, they remain discreetly silent about
their findings.
Peering beyond the frontiers of this
Buddhist kingdom, the soothsayers must
tread even more delicately. East, west,
north and south, Thailand is surrounded
by countries menaced by war, insurrec-
tion, or Communism, or all three. One
of the most vexing external problems is
posed by Cambodia, whose Chief of
State, Prince Sihanouk, celebrated Mar-
shal Sarit’s death with a public holiday.
Fie has often declared that Thailand and
South Vietnam are planning to dismem-
ber his country.
While the Thai leaders tend to regard
Prince Sihanouk as a lightweight, and
attribute some of his actions to disord-
ered glands, they are seriously disturbed
by the prospect of a Chinese foothold in
Cambodia. If Chinese military advisers
join the Chinese technicians already
there, Thailand’s attitude towards Siha-
nouk is likely to become much tougher.
However, a more immediate threat
looms in the North, where Communist
infiltration, through Laos, has increased
sharply. The deteriorating position in
Laos is alarming to Bangkok, because
Laos is Thailand’s only buffer with
China and North Vietnam. The buffer
became steadily more ineffectual in 1963
as the pro-Communist Pathet Lao extend-
ed their control over the Plain of Jars,
and in Southern Laos. The only good
omen, from Bangkok’s point of view, is
that the neutralist General Kong Le,
having seen his forces subverted and
attacked by the Pathet Lao, has now
reached a modus vivendi with his former
adversary on the Right, General Phoumi
Nosavan.
Generals Kong Le and Nosavan both
recently visited Bangkok, evoking the
usual charge by the Pathet Lao that they
were seeking Thai military aid. Undeni-
ably, the Generals’ lines of communica-
tion with the outer world run through
Thailand; and there is no doubt that the
Thai Government’s interests lie with the
Right wing in Laos. At the same time, it
is remembered here that General Nosa-
van’s troops are famous mainly for their
“strategic withdrawals” hence that
Thailand must look to her own defences
in the North. This, in fact, is what the
Government is doing.
To the West, Burma continues to
stumble along the road of “revolutionary
socialism,” as defined by General Ne
Win Recent twists in the road have been
the nationalisation of almost all private
concerns, ranging from banks to the
Burma Automobile Association; the
locking out of students from three univer-
sities; and the breaking oft of negotia-
tions with Communist and tribal rebels.
The latter have taken advantage of an
amnesty declared last April to strengthen
their hold on the country.
General Ne Win announced the end of
the amnesty on January 31. It is believed
that this will be followed by an all-out
offensive against the Red Flag and White
Flag Communists.
From her ringside seat, Thailand will
watch the struggle anxiously, realising
that the outcome may be no clear vic-
tory for either side. In the Year of the
Divine Serpent, as in former years,
Burma is likely to be plagued by dis-
unity, corruption and faltering leader-
ship.
By comparison, Thailand’s neighbor
in the South, the Federation of Malaysia,
is a vision of peace and stability. Fhough
threatened by Indonesia’s “confronta-
tion,” Malaysia’s house is in order, its
people are not slaughtering one another,
and its security forces are co-operating
with Thailand to round up last remnants
of the Communist insurgents in the
frontier jungles. Malaysia is a good
neighbor, from Thailand’s point of view;
and this was made clear to Indonesia’s
General Nasution when he visited Bang-
kok last week.
Yet President Soekarno’s rage has cast
its shadow over the two countries, stif-
ling almost at birth the experiment in
regional economic co-operation launched
in April, 1962, by Thailand, Malaya and


BBSS
Smith-Corona
"CORONET
WORLD'S
EXCLUSIVE
ELECTRIC
PORTABLE
Electric Typing gives you an Expert's even touch. Letters are never
too dark or too light. There are no jumpy lines, uneven spacing or
jumbled letters.
Ring today for Demonstration.
MACDOUGALLS LTD.
SYDNEY 29 1151 MELBOURNE 324161
ADELAIDE 8 6361 BRISBANE 2 9498
NEWCASTLE 57 2136 WOLLONGONG - - - - 2 2495
SPECIALIZED
TRANSPORTATION
ANSETT FREIGHT
EXPRESS
GETS YOUR GOODS THERE
ON TIME —EVERY TIME
You can time your business operations, inter-
state or local, by the regularity of Ansett
Freight Express pick-up and deliveries.
Whatever the consignment, hosiery to heavy
machinery, bulk loads or single packages
THERE'S A SERVICE TO SUIT YOUR NEEDS
For further particulars phone:
Melbourne 68 0541 • Sydney 67 0533 • Adelaide 45 5337
Canberra 9 0193 • Brisbane 47 1481 • Perth 24 4926
9019NR Tasmania —Devonport 2 2659
the Philippines. Little is heard now of
the “Association of South - east Asia”
(ASA), for its members have too many
other pre-occupations to sit down to
economic planning. Will ASA be revived
in the New Year, or will it be buried
even deeper under South-east Asia’s
rivalries and commotions? That is one
of the many secrets locked in the
celestial egg, the egg of the Naga, which
will hatch out under the new moon of
March 14. (ofns.)
Reforming UN
The trouble with equality
From JOYCE EGGINGTON in
New York
\ new trend in US policy towards the
United Nations is likely to develop
in the next few months. It will be
based on the desire to see a more
parliamentary system of jurisdiction
one in which the larger Powers do not
run the risk of being dominated by
smaller countries which, in many cases,
they help to support.
This line, which in many ways runs
contrary to Secretary-General U Thant’s
often-stated principle of equal voting
power for all member nations, was
developed in a Dag Hammarskjold
Memorial Lecture at New York’s
Columbia University last Friday.
The lecture was prepared by the US
Secretary of State, Mr Dean Rusk, but
because of the Panamanian crisis he was
unable to deliver it himself. It was read
by the Assistant Secretary of State, Mr
Harlan Cleveland.
Mr Rusk frankly admitted that the
idea of equal votes in the UN General
Assembly for every one of the UN’s
113 members, regardless of size, wealth
or experience, was hard to abandon. He
agreed, too, to the reality of the smaller
nations’ demand for increased represen-
tation on the Security Council. But he
pointed out that, “theoretically, a two-
thirds majority of the General Assembly
could now by formed by nations with
only 10 per cent of the world’s popula-
tion, or who contribute, altogether, 5
per cent of the assessed budget.”
Such a majority, he said, could recom-
mend a course of action for which the
larger nations would have to bear the
main responsibility. He also felt that a
lot of the UN’s work should be done by
small committees of which only a few
nations were members, rather than by
the entire General Assembly.
The policy is in opposition to recent
moves by African and Asian delegations,
who want not only the Security Council
but several other UN decision-making
committees enlarged to include more of
their representatives, (ofns.)


m
s=^
SHI
u
2EO
aaosi
aOLJCS
Use either team for the same selling
job - but Cessna can save you £££’s
per annum!
We can and will prove this statementto
your complete satisfaction. Ask our
representative to call and explain to you
how one salesman, in one Cessna air-
craft, can do the work of many car-
driving salesmen . . . and still save
you money!
V* *>
Interested? Mail this advertisement to us
on your letterhead ... or telephone
REX AVIATION LIMITED, P.O. Box ft,
ifankstown, N.S.W.' Tel. 70 0661; also
BWSBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
NEW ZEALAND; Rural Aviation Limited,
-, New Plymouth .
essna
Noumea’s
Ambitions
The Pacific Ugly Duckling
From J. A. LANGDON in Paris
'VToumea wants to expand. Feeling the
pulse of the times, she sees future
independence for the Pacific islands and
herself as a capital. At present these
are administered by five Powers
France, Britain, the United States, Aus-
tralia and New Zealand.
Only one official body has any
authority in all of the Pacific territories
■ —the South Pacific Commission, created
by the colonial Powers as an experi-
mental and advisory body concerned
with the problems of the South Pacific.
It investigates the health and agriculture
of the area and reports its findings to
the ruling Powers. Its authority goes
no further. It has its headquarters in
Noumea.
Noumea is seeking to develop a
tourist trade to further its claims. Here
it is finding itself the victim of its
economy. The approach to the town
emphasises the fact that the town is
based on industry. Near the harbor,
instead of the pine trees that inspired
Captain Cook in 1774 to name the
island after Scotland, are low, rounded
hills, scarred with ugly red wounds.
There are no trees left; just a wind-
swept landscape of former nickel-grub-
bing sites. From the sea Noumea is
equally unprepossessing. It appears as
a wooden shanty town, dominated by a
peeling QANTAS sign.
Industry dominates the town. One
whole suburb is dwarfed by the giant
refinery. A constant red glow fills the
sky. Surrounding the factory are the
houses built by the company for their
native labor. Combating the influence
of the nickel company is difficult.
It can, however, boast of some tourist
attractions. It has one of the Pacific's
best markets—run in the early morning,
complete with tropical produce, in-
cluding colored fish. After the buying
there are the cafes around the market
for the petit dejeuner. There is the bus
service, too.
The tourist drive, though, is not
developing as had been hoped. Only
New Zealanders and Australians seeking
to escape the commercialism of Tahiti
are bothering to come.
If there is to be a capital for the South
Pacific it is likely to be farther to the
east —probably in Fiji or Tahiti, where
life is more colorful and environment less
spoiled. Noumea seems destined to
remain a French provincial town in a
tropical setting, (ofns.)


Around Melbourne
LIKE 80 HOLDENS DOING 80 MPH
T7or those of us who have never
quite been able to cure a slight
itch and a longing every time an
aeroplane goes overhead, last week
was a week to remember. The hand-
ing over of the first Australian-built
Mirage 111 took place at Avalon, that
mighty strip 33 miles from Mel-
bourne, where the Qantas trainee
Boeing 707 pilots do their expensive
circuits and bumps.
The distinguished assemblage was
pretty much a history of aviation in
Australia. There were men like Sir
Lawrence Wackett, Sir George Jones,
Reg Ansett and, of course, Sir
Richard Williams. Sir Richard, or
Dickie as they used to call him, took
out the first military pilot’s licence
at Point Cook back in 1914. And he
recalls that one of their first aircraft
was the old Deperdussin.
The trouble was the Deperdussin
had this Y-shaped engine, and they
had it the wrong way up. So every
time they started that engine the plugs
oiled up, with the result that the air-
craft never got off the ground, which
is the reason, maybe, that the Deper-
dussin is still beautifully preserved at
Point Cook. So he got his wings on
box kites, which had a flying speed
of about 50 mph and a stalling speed
of about 50 mph and a top speed of
about 50 mph.
Another interesting man there was
Mr L. F. Bott, D.Sc., who signed all
the contracts on behalf of the Depart-
ment of Supply. Three times he made
trips to France, and he said that the
French never quite believed that we
would buy their Mirage. They were
convinced that somehow we would
be pressured by the Americans into
buying one of their aircraft. And
even if we did buy the Mirage, surely
we would never buy the French
engine; surely the clever British sales-
men would talk us into taking some-
thing from Rolls Royce*. So they were
overjoyed when we took the lot in
cne deal, the first overseas country
to take this particular aircraft, with
the result that in 1961 they signed
the contract in style before television
cameras.
Oh, but it wasn’t easy. In the
original party there were men like
Air Vice-Marshal Scherger, but none
of them could speak French. So that
all the complex technical details had
to be slowly and painfully mastered,
often by writing a series of questions
and waiting for written replies, so
that there could be no error.
The French were very good, he
said, and worked long hours, but you
couldn’t do a thing between the lunch
break from 12 to three. . . . “Some-
times we would suggest, why not a
quick lunch right in the factory, a
sandwich or something? But it wasn’t
any use. They would bring in hams,
chicken, wine, the right cheeses; so in
the long run it would have been
quicker to go to a restaurant.”
There were three Mirages for us
to inspect. Please don’t sound that
plural; one noticed that all the
principal speakers talked correctly of
our “three Mirage”. One was all
imported from France, the other two
were made here —that is 15 per cent
of the airframes and 80 per cent of
the engines—and we will get them at
the rate of two a fortnight from now
on.
those of us with simple pre-
Mach II minds, everything was
spent out. It had the power of 80
Holdens doing 80 mph down the Gee-
long Road; it had 13 miles of elec-
trical wiring and 11 miles of electronic
wiring; it could reach 35,000 feet and
be 50 miles off in five minutes, and
it could go to Adelaide and back in
the time that it would take Peter
Pollock to bowl two overs. Seeing
that it uses 90 gallons of fuel a minute
at full throttle, this seemed to be
stretching matters a trifle. One would
suggest that in trying to keep pace
with Mr Pollock it would probably
run out of gas somewhere over Rundle
Street.
As for the armament, it had the
Sidewinder, a 30mm cannon and a
secret long-range air-to-air missile
which operated with amazing
accuracy. This, too, made some of
the old air aces present pause for
thought. This was the end of their
tribe. How could you glamorously
chalk up kills by shooting down other
aircraft which you never even saw?
Then there were other interesting re-
finements, such as the long radar
nose, prettily called Cyrano after
Cyrano de Bergerac, and the optional
rocket booster which could send your
Mirage up to 95,000 feet.
The RAAF band tried hard to give
us a French atmosphere by playing
airs from “Gigi”; Sir Robert bril-
liantly managed to introduce cricket
into his speech by pointing out that
the beautiful weather and the Mirage
almost compensated “for the fact,
the very melancholy fact, that South
Africa has just beaten us by 10
wickets”; then we went out to the
strip for the take-off.
Once again we saw something quite
different the extraordinary flying
attitudes. The Mirage with its tiny
wing area, at slow speeds, and par-
ticularly at take-off, has its nose way
up at 30 or 40 degrees, so that it
looks like a bat trying to claw its
w 7 ay into the air. And it’s the same
on landing. No flap, it comes in at
200 knots; Monsieur de Bergerac’s
rose held high, it slows to 170 knots
for the touch-down, then out goes the
drag ’chute.
The pilots returned to be inter-
viewed Squadron-Leader Bill Col-
lings, 31, of Queensland, and Flight-
Lieutenant Ron Green, 33, of Western
Australia. It was interesting, here,
too, to witness the new era. They
wore magnificent scarlet uniforms
that they had picked up in France,
but that was the only sign of flam-
boyance; they were quiet to the point
of being taciturn, although they did
admit that the Mirage was “mag-
nificent” . . . “the best I’ve ever
flown”. Collings speaks French, the
result of a high-pressure course in
the RAAF language laboratory.
They are both chunky, solid as
life-savers, and their hair is closely
cropped. What’s more, neither has a
large moustache, not even a nicely-
trimmed little affair . . . that sort of
thing doesn’t really go with the elec-
tronic era.
BATMAN


FORUM
Two Views of
Manning Clark’s Australia
1 - A Personal Triumph
By BEDE NAIRN
(Associate Professor of History, University of NSW)
Professor Clark’s new book*
makes the round half dozen of
short general histories of Aus-
tralia available, most of them published
since 1954. in addition, Clark published,
in 1962, the first volume of his detailed
and lengthy A History of Australia. It
seems that there is a boom in the writing,
and, one hopes, the reading of Aus-
tralian history.
Clark’s new book should especially
contribute to a correct appraisal of the
value of Australian history, for it is
written with style, urbanity, tolerance
and wit, on a basis of accumulated
knowledge, guided by a sure feeling for
the worth of his subject.
Yet it is but one historian’s vision,
however great his gifts, of a field which,
if not virginal, is certainly not over-
cultivated. Clark’s own consolidated
work, it seems, is as yet in the pre-1851
era; and what a burden of toil and an
outlay of self that entails! There is not
sufficient published w’ork to enable him,
or any other historian, to tread with
complete confidence in the maze that
the second half of the nineteenth
century still remains; if the economic
outline is becoming clearer, the w'hole
political and social outline appears
hardly any less mysterious in 1963 than
it did in 1943. Thus there remains,
despite the boom, scope for at least one
additional general history that will bring
the periods 1850-1900 and 1900-1950
into sharper focus than Professor Clark
has been able to do.
Clark convincingly uses the ambiguous
Land Acts of the 1860 s as a symbol of
the failure of the squatters to translate
their economic and political dominance
of the 1840 s into political control 20
years later; he shows how economic
differentiation, so dramatically quickened
by the discovery of gold, stimulated the
numerical growth and power of the
bourgeoisie. The importers, manu-
facturers, bankers, shopkeepers and
professional men of the cities triumphed
over the squatters, leaving their mark
on the whole colonial society, infusing
their notions of respectability no less
than their ideas on city and town build-
ings and suburban dwellings. And
Clark excels in the sensitive apprecia-
tion needed to communicate the
human nuances as well as the economic
basis of this complex process “the
bourgeoisie . . . (were) laying up for
(themselves) treasures on earth, putting
up monuments in brick and stone in
wanton displays of their wealth and
their vision of the meaning of life.”
This much, the historical importance
of the bourgeoisie, is one of the main
themes of Clark’s book, and it is
developed so well as to give a
nearly unique character to the whole
work making it valuable to the teacher,
as well as interesting to the reader of
Australian history. The links of the
bourgeoisie wfith country interests are
suggested sufficiently; their radical wing
is splendidly analysed with Alfred
Deakin the focal point of the turbulent
meeting of the radicalism and national-
ism. Deakin, himself, the bourgeois
hero, is dissected calmly and
cleanly: “Despite the lavish gifts of
nature, the commanding personal ap-
pearance, and the superb oratory,
(Deakin) seemed haunted by intimations
that this world of affairs, this W'orld of
politics, of who’s in and who’s out, was
not the real world at all, that a man
ought to be laying up treasures in
heaven, that if God and the life of the
w'orld to come did not exist, that a man
should achieve glory in the world of
letters.” The whole complex social
problem of Australian education, so
well examined by Clark, is mirrored
in Deakin, and the crumbling of the
Protestant-British ascendancy; and the
loneliness of each human.
A vital part of the bourgeoisie’s
triumph was its dominance in colonial
politics after responsible government.
Probably the main problem associated
with this is the nature of political
activity and of political parties of the
period 1856-1890. Some slight pub-
lished controversy has suggested the
intricate work involved, but to date no
major historical analysis has seen the
light. Clark generally follows the
traditional line, and 1 think it is the
right one: “The politics of the period
were disturbed not so much by the
fundamental differences of opinion on
the ownership of wealth and the exercise
of political power as by fights within the
bourgeoisie for the plums and social
prestige that went with a seat in the
ministry of the day . . . factions replaced
parties.”
This view needs deeper analysis and
more extensive development than Clark
gives it. Yet his insight into the whole
complex of politics enables him to
suggest the great stature as well as the
disturbing enigma of Sir Henry Parkes,
unelucidated fully, swathed in romantic,
partisan and niggardly fictions even
now, but appreciably more understand-
able as a result of Professor Clark’s
penetrating summary: “His passion for
women was insatiable. . . Everything
about the man was on a grand scale . . .
(he) remained to the end a bundle of
paradoxes . . . sustained by a belief in
Enlightenment, yet at times (he) grovelled
before parson and priest to cadge votes
in elections.”
But Clark is not so successful with the
Labor Party, which burst unexpectedly
into colonial politics in 1891. His
detached style of assessing, with an
understanding that at times verges on
pity, the relationship between the tragedy
of human life and history has an
occasional tendency to embrace cynicism
—1 think chiefly because of his sense of
the comic, so agreeable and illuminating
when appropriately used, as it usually is.
This style reflects Clark’s artistic gifts,
gifts that help his work to rank as fine
examples of literature as well as his-
torical writing. But they bring their risks,
too, for an historian. So his analysis of
the Labor Party in the 1890 s is fair
enough when he sees its members as
“political reformers rather than destroy-
ers of the bourgeois state”, even though
this judgment all but ignores the im-
plications that followed inexorably from
the fact that the new party had emerged
naturally from colonial society. But
gentle mockery intervenes, obscuring
the reality of the contribution to Labor
and Australia of the “cranks” and
idealists, when Clark observes that some
members of the party “spoke and w'rote
with the enthusiasm and confidence of
the righteous in the presence of great
wickedness”, and gives as an example
*A Short History of Australia. Mentor
Books. 9s. 9d.


\\>
%
<#>
epic keeps
exporters afloat
Trading overseas on credit? Should your customers
founder, an epic policy will keep you afloat.
epic charts the way to smooth sailing with risk
assessments, credit intelligence and advice on
payment term patterns, epic insurance pays you
when your overseas customers can’t. Ask for the
booklet which tells how epic makes exporting safe.
EXPORT PAYMENTS INSURANCE CORPORATION
Commonwealth Government Guaranteed
Head Office: 2 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. 28 2321.
And in all other Capitals.
an extract from the 1890 Brisbane
“Worker” “that it was the mission of
Labour ‘to free the worker from wage
slavery, to reduce the world from shame
and sorrow, to make men manly and
women womanly and the little ones full
of laughter and life full of love’.”
For more prosaic reasons Clark dis-
torts the strikes of 1890-94, especially
the 1890 Maritime Strike. It is very
disappointing that an historian of his
pre-eminence should write, in 1963, of
these strikes that they “raised the
question of the rights of unionism, and
in so doing led to a direct clash between
capital and labour”. But his artistic
cynicism returns to bedevil his dis-
cussion of Joseph Lyons and his place
in the Labor Party, 1909-31, “Labour
in 1929,” he says, “had little more to
offer than the ability of its members to
administer the bourgeois state”, and
at the same time argues that “Lyons was
horrified” in 1929, because he had come
“into contact with men who were con-
cerned not just with making things work,
or rectifying an ancient wrong while
they waited for the resurrection of the
dead, but with the reconstruction of the
capitalist society”.
Clark gives a stimulating and well-
ordered analysis of Australian national-
ism, showing its economic foundation, its
political manifestation, its bourgeois as
well as its radical and “bush” features,
its art and literature, its self-conscious
patriotism. The whole analysis is rooted
in the pre-1850 period, is expanded in
its flowering in the following half
century, especially in the last decade,
and is fitted with fine proportion into
the twentieth century as Australia con-
firmed its nationhood in two world wars.
Professor Clark at times suggests
almost an epic quality to the story as he
relates starkly the hardships and priva-
tions of pioneering in the relentless bush
with its never-ending cycle of drought,
fire and flood. His total treatment of
nationalism is summed up in his balanced
assessment of Henry Lawson who, he
says, could write “with compassion of
the lives of the men and women who
fought heroically and courageously
against the soil, the weather, the
market, and the evils of the capitalist
system”, but who “was concerned only
with the problems of provincials,” and
failed “to deal with the universal prob-
lems of man in a capitalist society
deprived of the consolations of religion.”
Confrontation
Clark keeps his “epic” well under
control. And generally one must
applaud his ever-wary appreciation of
the limitations and the derivative nature
of Australian society. But his reticence
prevents him from developing con-
sistently his theme of the hammering
out of a new and civilised nation from
the harsh wilderness. He writes with
knowledge and sympathy of “the slums
in the wilderness where father, mother
and children slaved amid squalor, filth,
ignorance and superstition to make a
living on the land”; of the struggles for
democratic constitutions in the 1850 s;
of the chronic sectarian bitterness deriv-
ing from the confrontation of three
world-views provided by Protestantism,
Catholicism and the Enlightenment; of
immigrant-native born estrangements; of
the pervasive and nagging problems of
bringing Federation to fruition. This
exemplifies the extreme and exquisite
difficulties of founding the Australian
nation. Much of what he sees as pro-
vincialism and chauvinism was merely a
powerful reflection of the frustration of
human beings in a position of great
anxiety and hardship.
As a result he displays a fashionable
self-conscious diffidence whenever he
writes of the White Australia Policy.
And this, too, is disappointing, for if
historians cannot be dispassionate about
this bogey no other group will be, and
intellectual analysis of a vital part of
Australia’s immigration history will be-
come virtually impossible. Australians
of the nineteenth century could no more
incorporate non-Europeans into their
nation than could the delegates at the
1897 Federation Convention fail to
attend, despite the hot, sticky weather,
“in serge suits, starched shirts and
collars”. This did not mean at all that
Australians had a deep and abiding belief
in the inferiority of non-Europeans,
though it is easy enough to assume that
this was so. It meant that they were
caught up in a particularly difficult
experiment, and came to be determined
that it should succeed. They were not
especially convinced that all Europeans
could help them, but they were sincerely
convinced that non-Europeans could not
help them.
For many of his readers the most
interesting part of the book will be the
last two chapters, covering the period


'
",' -.r
■'s::. ■ >,x:‘.X"x ■
eKss?.. V ~ s <&
' i
: V
, : , -
mm
11
I
it
x:"-
:
-
- :
■
■
m
- m
m-
H
'
.:■ ■■ ' :
z
c
I
-
■
■x :•••:'
m
.
■
m
Hertz rents late model Holdens and other fine cars, runs them on Caltex Butane Boosted
gasoline and RPM Motor Oil—a great combination.
HERTZ invites you to join this world-wide
'key club’ of knowledgeable travellers
This is the best way to travel—in a Hertz car. Wherever you go, Hertz, the
world’s number one car rental system, really looks after you.
World-class car rental comes to Australia. Seasoned travellers know Hertz—
the most experienced car rental service there is. Now, completing a world-wide
network, Hertz has come to Australia. Experienced, well-equipped licensees
are offering world-beating Hertz service in major cities throughout Australia.
When you rent a car from Hertz you can do so much more on your trip. You
save money—and, more important, save time. You’re not tied to a time-table
and four or five can travel as cheaply as one. All Hertz cars are thoroughly
insured and Hertz cleans the car inside and out; checks brakes, steering, all
vital parts. You’re ready to go—in a car you can be proud of.
Let HERTZ put you in the driver’s seat! Next time, go the Hertz way. Get
more done on business trips. Have a holiday car without wearing out your
own on long interstate drives. Be a two-car family for a weekend. Have a
Hertz car delivered when your own is in service. A local call reserves a car
anywhere in Australia. Call your Travel Agent or one of the Hertz offices listed
below. ADELAIDE: Kennedy’s-Hertz, 74 Grote Street. Tel.: 51 5278-80
BRISBANE: Cahill’s-Hertz, 93-103 George Street. Tel: 2 0505-6
MELBOURNE: Astoria-Hertz, 630 Swanston Street. Tel: FJ 9048
NEWCASTLE: Kennedy’s-Hertz, 14 Wood Street. Tel: 61 3486
ROCKHAMPTON: Godwin’s-Hertz, Victoria House, East Street. Tel: 2733-4251
SYDNEY: Lessey’s-Hertz, 55-61 Riley Street. Tel: 31 0556
SURFERS PARADISE/COOLANGATTA (GOLD COAST):
Duncan’s-Hertz, 15 Beach Road, Surfers Paradise. Tel: 9 3055
PERTH: Sydney Anderson’s-Hertz, 1 William Street. Tel: 21 9134
Executives—send this coupon, with your business letterhead, to your nearest Hertz office.
Please send me details of the Hertz International Credit Card system.
NAME
ADDRESS
Let HERTZ put you in the driver’s seat!
1919-1963. Here, of course, appear
many well-known individuals, and many
familiar events are described and
analysed. This is a period almost bereft
of sound published monographs. But
Professor Clark has invested his work
with lively narrative and pungent judg-
ments. Apart from their intrinsic
interest, and literary and historical
merits, the chapters will be particularly
useful to teachers of Australian history
who find coherent, readable and up-to-
date material for classes hard to come by
for this period. The general reader will
match his own opinions against Clark’s
judgments of W. M. Hughes, J. T. Lang,
J. Curtin, J. B. Chifley and R. G.
Menzies, among other notables. His
ability to combine the highest standards
of professional writing with an illumin-
ating sense of the dramatic is evident
again in its confrontation of Curtin with
Menzies from 1939. Indeed, much of
his vision of Australian history with the
apparently never-ending conflict of three
basic world-views, complicated by Irish-
English national estrangement, is
summed up here.
Macquarie
covers the pre-1851 era with
professional ease, going over well-
worn ground with a freshness that is a
sheer delight, putting forward new and
fuller views of almost hackneyed events
and individuals. Macquarie’s great contri-
bution to the founding and development
of the nation is fairly shown, but so
are the weaknesses that rounded out his
humanity even as they weakened his
stature as the ruler of a peculiar society.
Professor Clark has been criticised for
his revision of accepted opinions of
Macquarie; but in showing again that
history is concerned with real men and
women and that human responses to
situations are the very stuff of history
he actually is more just to Macquarie
than any other historian. The elements
of greatness in the Governor are easier
to see when we are made to understand
him; “he died in grief and anguish,”
Clark concludes, “not knowing that
posterity would confer on him a more
lasting gift than the confounding of his
enemies, the title of Father of Australia.”
The complicated politics of the 1820 s
and 1830 s are elucidated more clearly
than ever before. He shows that the
achievements of W. C. Wentworth were
limited alike by his aggressive and
intemperate personality as well as by his
financial interests. The inevitable John
Macarthur and William Bligh are easier
to understand because of Clark’s
appreciation of the influence of their
characters on their actions. The vital
British background to Australian history
is clarified consistently, and with sure
skill, at all relevant times, not least of


all in Professor Clark’s quite brilliant
accounts of the foundation of Western
Australia and of South Australia.
Inevitably' in a work of this kind,
there is evidence of hasty writing and
hasty printing. One can point out with
some reason and surprise the complete
absence of William Bland and the
virtual absence of any references to
sport, especially horse-racing. It is high
time some historian (apparently he will
have to have a different world-view than
the majority) stressed in a general his-
tory of Australia the economic, if not the
social, significance of Carbine and Phar
Lap, if not Tulloch. Apart from the few
errata listed in the book, it is possible
to list some more, including that in 1930
J. T. Lang was concerned with the
“Labor Daily” not “The Century”, and
that the end of the war in the Pacific
did not occur on a Saturday, that there
were an official 35 Labor MsLA elected
in 1891 in NSW, not 30 or 36. But
these are minor defects in a book that
is a personal triumph for Professor Clark
and a sure sign that the writing of Aus-
tralian history has come of age.
2 - Rewriting History
By M. H. ELLIS
The contents of this Mentor Book
paperback are roughly of the same
standard of inaccuracy and quality
as its author’s first volume of his
“History of Australia”.
In the early part of his new work Pro-
fessor Manning Clark repeats most of the
mistakes and half-truths which marred
his earlier and more detailed study,
adding a few for discount, such as that
H.M.S. Sirius was wrecked off Norfolk
Island in February, 1789 (when she was
safely at anchor in Table Bay thousands
of miles away), a kind of error which
illustrates the very sketchy nature of his
knowledge of the great drama of the
first three years of Australian survival.
However, it is only when we reach
modern times that we see Professor
Clark at the height of his form and of
his Leftist prejudices which color every
word he writes.
His views are plain in his amazing
treatment of the history of World War
11, in which the whole of the prowess
which produced victory seems to have
been seated in Moscow which “trapped
several hundred thousand men, the
flower of the German army at Stalin-
grad and forced it to surrender . . .
changed the war in Europe from a
desperate fight for survival into a struggle
for total victory” ... in which “the
Soviet armies pursued the retreating
German armies out of Russia and
Poland” while the “Allies” conducted a
war of attrition in the Pacific and
“landed in Normandy in June, 1944, to
open a second front”. This immense
preponderance of the Russian effort
apparently led to “anxious if not strident
voices of alarm and prophecy” being
raised in Australia about the threat of
Communism to Western civilisation.
As he has a completely blind eye for
the part which individual Western nations
played in World War 11, so Clark
apparently was also oblivious of the
actions of Russia at an earlier stage of
the war which had caused the warnings
and prophecies about the danger of
Communism to be made. He has not
one word to say about the partition of
Poland, the rape of the Baltic countries,
the attack on Finland, Moscow’s devil’s
bargain with Ribbentrop and Hitler,
Stalin’s condonation of the German in-
vasion of the Low Countries and Scan-
dinavia; nor of the Australian Com-
munist Party’s support of these pro-
ceedings and the world-wide Communist
campaign for a peace with Hitler which
would have been tantamount to world
surrender to an evil Russo-German-
Japanese coalition to divide the spoils.
He is as oblivious to these events as
he is to the Battle of Britain, the sea
war, the re-conquest of France and the
Low Countries and Scandinavia, the
surrender of Germany in the west, the
great operation of aid to Russia and the
part played by the Americans in the
Pacific War. When the British fail, they
are British; when they win they are al-
ways “allies”—even the Eighth Army at
Alamein.
Clark writes —and this is only one of
many distortions and misstatements that
are staggering in a book by the Pro-
fessor of History at the Australian
National University—that “at the end
of December, 1941, the Australian
forces succeeded in raising the 242 days
long siege of Tobruk. But in the first
six months of 1942 disaster overcame
the British forces in Africa as swiftly as
in the other theatres of war . . . (later)
The Eighth Allied army under Mont-
gomery, which included the Australian
Ninth Division, began a decisive en-
gagement at El Alamein . . .” (The
italics are mine.)
In fact, the siege was raised on its
242nd day on December 7 not the
end of December. The Royal Navy
having removed the AIF Brigades the
previous August-October, save for the
trapped remains of the 2/ 3 3 Battalion,
the force inside Tobruk at the relief was
90 per cent British and Poles. The re-
lieving army was made up of only Bri-
tish, New Zealanders, South Africans
and Indians. And the next six months
was not all “disaster” for the British.
Again, when the Americans are
“scattered like chaff” (allegedly) in the
Pacific, they are “Americans”; those who
win their battles for them are “allies”,
even when United States forces ex-
clusively are involved.
And the names of MacArthur,
Nimitz and Eisenhower seem dirty
words to be excluded from historical
literature altogether. Midway, Tarakan,
the Lingayen, Iwo Jima, the Ryukus—
he has never heard of them.
Clark’s version of what happened to
Russia between 1939 and 1941 is that
W'hile Stalin was generously warning the
world that the “crisis of capitalism” had
arrived, Hitler pounced on him, and
Churchill, “making a gesture of ex-
pediency”, decided to support the Soviet
Union, though for him “the Nazi regime
was indistinguishable from the worst
features of Communism”. Churchill is
mentioned only twice and Roosevelt once
in the index, each time in an unfavorable
context.
“Wicked fellow”
nPHE Clarkian chronicle takes the same
A line when it comes to Commonwealth
internal history. All the goodies are on
the Leftist side; all the baddies among
the Conservatives, and the good deeds of
the latter are acknowledged only rarely
indeed.
Take that wicked fellow S. M. Bruce,
for instance. He was born into a
“patrician family”—though actually his
father’s first job in Australia was as a
night-watchman. He went to Melbourne
Grammar School. He “advertised his
difference with the democratic tradition
by the Englishness of his clothing (he
wore spats)”. So, incidentally, did a
number of polished members of Mos-
cow’s Arcos who were contemporary
with Bruce in London, and very mirrors
of Savile Row fashion. He further
showed his distaste for democracy in
his “English manners of speech when
speaking to the working classes (he
always addressed a member of the Labor
Party in the lobbies of the House bv his
last name only)”. In the same way, in
fact, as he, as a member of the English
Bar, from the very moment of his ad-
mission would have been expected to
address all his social equals in the law
and even the Attorney-General himself
in private converse. This fact one would
expect a Professor of History at the
Australian National University who has
been' at Oxford and a master at an
English public school to know full well.
Mr Menzies, of course, was a worse


case even than Bruce. His “all consuming
passions” were “the spur to fame”, a
belief so “passionate” that “the British
had created the highest civilisation and
the greatest degree of liberty known to
man”, that it led him to vent his “venera-
tion and almost superstitious respect for
British institutions” in various ways,
such as “impairing his stature by use of
his great powers for the defence of an
order doomedTo decay”, or being struck
wordless in Parliament as he announced
the death of King George VI. When—-
allegedly he “slumped in his chair,
resting his elbows on the table and press-
ing the knuckles of his clenched fist into
his mouth”. An unpleasant fellow,
Menzies. The ruling passion of his life
was to “ridicule all who offered a way
forward, who wanted progress”; one to
whom “all who did not share his view
were the deluded victims of superstitious
barbarism”.
It is a relief to find this mesmerised
fellow replaced in control of Australia
by Mr Curtin. He, by “birth and con-
viction”, was commendably “suspicious
of all policies pursued by the British
Government”. He believed that “men
should love and comfort one another for
the loss of eternal life”. He had “re-
sponded enthusiastically to the hope of
better things for mankind promised by
the Russian Revolution of 1917”. Such
was the humanitarian destined to replace
the England-worshipper who “looked on
the comforters that had sustained Curtin
in childhood, youth and middle age with
disdain”. And a very good job he seems
to have made of the leadership as the
head of a “high-minded, industrious”
administration during the dark years of
the war, if Professor Clark may be
believed.
He had, fortunately, at his elbow
during his planning for peace a bright
being, one H. V. Evatt, “a child of en-
lightenment, rather than a believer in
the Kingdom of God”. Him the
“socialists had inspired with their dream
of a day when man was liberated from
his oppressors and gaolers”. He was
“not only a believer in the perfection of
mankind, but a man with a creed”, con-
vinced of the rightness of individual
liberty and believing “in the day when
human minds would be freed from
priestcraft and superstition, in inter-
national rather than national or pro-
vincial loyalties, and in culture as the
comforter of mankind”.
Communism
Tn the whole of Professor Clark’s story,
•*- Evatt nothing common did nor
mean, even when the conservatives and
liberals “sneered at his histrionics and
warned about the dangers of offending
America and Great Britain”. He just
continued his “never-ending quest to
detect a pattern in the chaos”.
With “the assistance of some gifted
Australians who were graduates of the
London School of Economics”, he
“gradually worked out” the great plan
for the future—Clark says nothing of its
strikingly close resemblance in nature
and verbiage to Stalin’s Soviet Con-
stitution.
And so when the war ended, with
“enthusiasm in the air”, “only a minority
writing in such periodicals as the ‘Syd-
ney Bulletin’ . . . raised the cry that civil-
isation was in danger from Com-
munism”. Otherwise:
“At the universities of Melbourne and
Sydney the students, leavened by return-
ing servicemen, caught onto the prevail-
ing faith that by political action it would
be possible to remove the causes of human
evil and suffering. High-minded, hard-
working, and dedicated secular humanists
and Fabians worked together for a com-
mon end. The heroic achievements of the
Red Army, the imminent victory of the
Communists in the Chinese Civil War,
the defeat of reaction and obscurantism
in eastern Europe, and the victory of
British Labour in the British general
elections of 1945 fed their elation and
hope for the future. So despite the warn-
ings of the priests that human beings
could not achieve happiness on earth,
despite the sneers of liberals and con-
servatives at those who talked of ‘the
light on the hill’ for humanity, large
sections of the intelligentsia and relig-
ious groups at the universities were
caught up in the optimistic and for-
ward-looking mood.”
The actions of the Labor Govern-
ment members growing confused after
the war created the “suspicion that these
men had become planners without any
coherent ideology”. At the same time,
the strikes on the coalfields “presented
the Government with a terrible choice,
as the conservatives pounded them to
maintain law and order, and the radicals
abused them as storm-troopers and
agents of monopoly capitalism when
they disciplined strikers.” The “loss of
men of the imaginative drive of Curtin
or the administrative skill of Beasley
depleted their ability” to judge the power
of the ground swells in electorates which
destroy governments.” So they moved on
to the political slaughter:
Clark writes: “It was the success of
Communism in eastern Europe and
China that exposed the divisions within,
if not the bankruptcy, of Labor. By 1948
there were Communist Governments, it
seemed, in all the eastern European
countries; Communist Parties were in-
creasing in strength in Italy and France.”
And then, “on October 1, 1949, the
People’s Republic was proclaimed in
Peking”.
Glorious day, of course! But this
signal victory proved, according to the
Clarkian version, the downfall of Federal
Labor in Australia.
The question arose, “Was the Labor
Government to recognise the Peking
Government as the legal government of
China?” The Communist world did so,
but “America refused”. And in Aus-
tralian Labor, while the Catholics and
the Rights said “No”, the radicals and
Left “clamored for recognition”. But
the “vote-conscious in an election year
urged recognition after the election” and
carried the day, so that in December
“Labor was soundly defeated by a
Liberal and Country Party coalition
which at least had no inhibitions or
agonies of mind on the Communist
issue”.
SEATO
Aur author apparently has satisfied
” himself that black markets, shabbily
administered controls, industrial chaos,
Communist subversion and infiltration of
the Services, which had compelled Mr
Chifley to establish the hated Security
Service and pass legislation to protect
the Rocket Range, had nothing more to
do with Labor’s defeat than the plan for
bank nationalisation!
Peking was the issue of disaster which
led to the long reign of Menzies during
which he servilely “accepted the
American view” and gave a sop to
Cerberus in the shape of a “mite” of
help to the Asian peoples tendered with
one hand for the unworthy purpose of
“frustrating the advance of Com-
munism”, while in the other hand he
held a “sword in the form of a partner-
ship in Seato”. Some people, says Pro-
fessor Clark meaningfully, felt that the
Australian-American alliance was one
“with corrupt, reactionary and inefficient
governments in Asia”; that it “exposed
Australia to the danger of being on the
losing side in a world war; it aligned
Australia with those who seemed to be
attempting to delay the liberation of the
peoples of Asia from centuries of
poverty and oppression”.
We see Menzies, the wicked Anglo-
phile, for the last time in 1962, as Pro-
fessor Clark glimpses him, using his
“great gifts, his eloquence and wit, his
urbanity to defend a world that was
crumbling before his very eyes”. It
seems a pity Clark did not wait till after
the 1963 Federal elections to write this
summary.
Professor Clark’s narrative may be
history according to the Marxian con-
ception which subordinates truth to pur-
pose in constructing chronicles. It seems
to belong to the same school as the
Russian histories which credit Musco-
vites with inventing the steam engine,
radio, flying and anaesthetics. Some-
times, indeed, the sceptical reader of it
may be pardoned for turning back to
the title page to make sure that the
author’s name is Clark and not Marx,
so marked is its flavor of extreme
Leftism, both in statement and method
of presentation.


letters
to the
editor
“THE RELUCIANT OFFICERS”
Sir,
As one of the officers contributing to
the High Court fund I read with interest
“The Curious Case* of the Reluctant
Officers” (18/1/64). The uninitiated
must wonder why a comparatively large
number of officers (now believed to
be 70) wish to resign their commissions
and re-enter civilian life. There are two
main groupings—a small group who
have become disillusioned with service
life and, not wishing to soldier on under
any circumstances, want their freedom;
the second and much larger group con-
sists of officers who, due to very poor
conditions of service and inadequate
rates of pay, can no longer afford to
remain in the service.
The man in uniform has to contend
with many things not asked of his
civilian counterpart —frequent postings,
interrupted schooling for one’s children
(with added expenditure for school uni-
forms, textbooks, etc.), being forced to
live in sub-standard accommodation
more often than not in slum-reclaimed
areas, and frequent absences from one’s
family. The final straw comes with re-
tirement when, virtually penniless and
with children still to educate, the officer
in his late forties or early fifties is faced
with the prospect of acquiring a home,
and his only asset an inadequate pension.
Under these circumstances can there
be anyone who would deny the service-
man a right that is regarded as inviolable
—that of choosing his own employer?
ARMY OƑICER
Melbourne (Vic.).
THE INDIAN ARMY
Sir,
Mr Sharan in his letter (28/12/63)
has taken exception to Mr Peter Cole-
man's statement that “no Muslim can get
ahead in the Indian Army” and to dis-
prove this he has quoted the case of
one Brigadier Usman, who apparently
died in combat some 15 years ago. If
to prove his point Mr Sharan has to
quote the case of a soldier who died so
many years ago, it is only natural to
assume that he finds it difficult to quote
facts and figures which are in currency
today. Can he say how many Muslim
lieutenant-colonels, etc., are there now
in the Indian Army? What is the per-
centage of Muslims in the ranks and in
the officer corps of the Indian Army,
which will be a million strong very
shortly?
The percentage of Muslims in India is
nearly 10 per cent. Is this percentage re-
spected in the recruiting of the armed
forces of India? The answer is no, pure
and simple. In that case why does Mr
Sharan think that Mr Coleman was
wrong in making the statement about
recruitment and promotion of Muslims
in the Indian armed forces?
M. RAHMAN
Dulwich (SA).
“ANY QUESTIONS”
Sir,
In answer to Mr Charles Stokes’
(18/1/64) criticism of the “Any Ques-
tions” review (21/12/63), l suggest he
read it again, with less anger and more
objectivity. His cutting tone would be
less appropriate if he had not distorted
the purpose of the review. To restate
that, it was “how can the show ever be
any better than the questions asked?”
I have worked for the ABC, too. I
know the pressures. But, unlike Mr
Stokes, I would not care to hear vital
national questions tossed to a panel of
any kind to deal with in a few minutes,
and I suggest that perhaps, in some in-
stances at least, his superiors were of the
same view and were more wise than, as
he intimates, afraid. A panel which has
to deal with catch-all questions within
30 minutes should treat them as lightly
as possible, with some wit and good
humor. And the panels’ repeated failures
to be witty or good-humored could have
been the cause of the declining ratings
on television, which is not the same as
radio. John Dease and the Quiz Kids
will have that to overcome, too.
FRANK ROBERTS
Sydney (NSW).
HEADMASTERS
Sir,
Recently the headmastership of Mel-
bourne High School became vacant, and
was filled. If we believe in the equality
of educational opportunity, is it right
that one headmaster should receive £5OO
to £lOOO more than headmasters in other
high schools in the metropolitan area?
R. MULLINS
Federal President,
Australian Republican Party.
Melbourne (Vic.).
MALAYSIA
Sir,
In “Plain English” (11/1/64) you
state in part: “Australia . . . must help
. . . Malaysia with full military aid ... in
the interests of self-defence.” What an
ignorant, arrogant, gormless statement
to make. How can the defence of
Malaysia be important to anybody but
the Republic of Indonesia?
Why does a seemingly intelligent
magazine like The Bulletin consist-
ently put forward such a deliberate and
criminal lie, knowing full well that the
commitment of Australian defence forces
to Malaysia, without the support of the
Republic of Indonesia, could well con-
stitute a “kiss of death” to the Australian
nation?
In 1941 the two brigades which fought
in Malaya did not fire one bullet in the
defence of Australia. Their sacrifice in
Malaya did not divert one soldier, one
aeroplane, or one ship from Australia.
You are confusing Australian self-
defence with the murder of young Aus-
tralians for British vested interests.
HENRY BARRETT
Flinders Island (Tas.).
[Reader Barrett simply hasn’t read
what we said in “Plain English”, which
was that, under certain circumstances,
an Indonesian attack on Malaysia would
constitute an attack on Australia. We
might have added that an Indonesian
attack on Australian New Guinea could
be construed the same way. Ed.]
TROTSKY
Sir,
Eugene Kamenka’s praise (25/1/64)
of Trotsky as “the last great personality
of classical Marxism as a movement
worthy of human admiration and
respect” will not move those of us who
recall Lenin’s dictum, presumably shared
by Trotsky: “We must be ready to
employ trickery, deceit, lawbreaking,
withholding and concealing truth. We
can and must write ... in a language
which sows among the masses hate, re-
vulsion, scorn and the like toward those
of different opinions.”
GREGORY WALSH
Melbourne (Vic.).
MIGRANTS
Sir,
Poor newly-arrived migrant, apathetic
after years of softening up by the
initiative-reducing uniformity of British
life. He is forced to rely on his own
resourcefulness, to adapt himself to the
enthusiasm, forcefulness and cheerful
optimism of Australia (“A Hostel is not
a Home”, 18/1/64). It cannot be easy
for him.
He soon realises, however, that force-
fulness is just another word for mere
aggressiveness, and that cutting a man
down to size (in itself admirable) is too
often understood as cutting him down
to the general size, which means a
terrible pressure to conform.
Before leaving England I was warned
that Australians dislike above all a
patronising Englishman. I never ex-
pected to be patronised myself.
D. J. J. BROWN
Sydney (NSW).


i
, y.;,, .
The scezie is set,.
$
Candles flicker, the last place card is arranged. It’s
during these few moments before your guests arrive that
you’ll appreciate Chevron Hilton’s meticulous care and
attention to detail ... an impression that will remain
with you and your guests long after. No other hotel is
quite as experienced as Chevron Hilton.
If you are arranging a banquet, intimate supper, sales
meeting, grand ball, wedding breakfast, convention or
cocktail party, Chevron Hilton’s specially trained
banquet department is always at your service. It costs
less to plan with Chevron Hilton, Sydney’s focal point
for all important occasions.
Before arranging your next business or social function
contact the banquet manager at
CHEVRON HILTON
MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY
Telephone 35-0433
CHEY/J6980
THE ORR CASE
Sir,
Mr W. H. Coffey (11/1/64) should
think again. I am sure he was not born
yesterday. It is just that he has for-
gotten the history he learned at school,
which shows, among other things, that
“our hard-won heritage” is ours precisely
because our forebears, singly or in
groups, attacked principalities and
powers when the injustices they per-
petrated were too heavy to be borne. As
the Orr case shows, such battles are by
no means over, if we are to retain our
“rights as individuals”.
Is it so inconceivable that an institu-
tion like the University of Tasmania
should endeavor to cast out and ruin a
man who was instrumental in having a
Royal Commission inquire into the way
the university was run a commission
which, moreover, piling insult upon
injury, found that the criticisms of Pro-
fessor Orr were entirely justified? Is it
so inconceivable that there should be a
miscarriage of justice even in the High
Court itself? Miscarriages of justice
have occurred in all courts and at all
times.
Seduction, it is to be remembered, is,
by its very nature, a charge difficult to
prove perhaps that is why it has not
been made a criminal offence before
now; and there are many people who
think that the charge against Professor
Orr was not proved. Psychologists know
that young women “passing through a
stage of turbulent eroticism” are very
much addicted to weaving, and even
believing in, fantasies about their love-
life and their conquests, and so evidence
given by those in such a state should be
subjected to the strictest and most im-
personal scrutiny.
“Obsession with civil rights” is con-
cern, whether excessive or not, with
moral issues. There are “moral responsi-
bilities” other than sexual ones, and it
is not the citizens who care enough to
be active in defending civil rights who
will plunge the country into anarchy. It
is when institutions such as universities,
courts, councils and parliaments lose
their integrity and fall into such dis-
repute that the people feel there is no
use in supporting them any longer, or
in fighting for their rehabilitation, that
society deteriorates and disintegrates.
JANET C. ANDERSON
Turramurra ( NSIV ).
DR MANNIX
Sir,
I am collecting material for a study of
the life of the late Archbishop of Mel-
bourne, Dr Mannix. I should be most
grateful to any of your readers who
possess letters from Dr Mannix if I
might be allowed to see these. If the
originals are sent to me I shall have
these copied and returned immediately.
If any letters contain passages which the
recipient does not wish reproduced, I
would naturally respect his wishes.
B. A. SANTAMARIA
5 Riversdale Road,
Hawthorn, E. 2. (Vic.).


REVIEWS
FILMS
Sicily’s Tragic Prince
The Italian cinema from rags to royalty
By BEVERLEY TIVEY
The Leopard. Director, Luchino Vis-
conti. Palace Theatre. Sydney.
HThe post-war years in Italian cinema
A were the years of neo-realism. This
ungainly term embraced films like Ros-
sellini’s “Open City” (whose slap-dash
technique was felt to lend an added
dimension of truth), Zampa’s charming
and underrated “Vivere In Pace”,
Vittorio de Sica’s sentimental but highly
effective “Shoeshine” and “Bicycle
Thieves”. They were followed by a
flood of “realistic” films, including
Fellini’s “I Vitelloni” and “La Strada”.
Peasants, slum-dwellers and dead-
beats provided a scene of poverty and
struggle, often in itself a form of
romanticism. Italian directors treated
low life as if they had invented it,
whereas earlier years had produced films
like “Quai des Brumes” and “Love On
The Dole” from France and England,
and, from Hollywood, films like “Dead
End” and “The Grapes Of Wrath”.
Today it is diverting, in view of the
critical chorus of “honesty, integrity,
sincerity” of the 19505, to observe what
might be called the social climbing of
the Italian cinema.
Antonioni, probably the most modish
of present-day Italian film-makers, deals
almost exclusively with society’s upper
stratum. His characters are rich,
educated, articulate; Antonioni’s investi-
gation of their perfectly valid problems
need never be interrupted by their merely
economic troubles. Even Fellini in “La
Dolce Vita” forsakes his earlier neo-
realism for the “high life” of con-
temporary Rome.
The rise in the social ladder reaches
its highest rung in Luchino Visconti’s
film of Lampedusa’s novel “The
Leopard”. Here we really get into the
upper bracket: Lampedusa was, Visconti
is of the hereditary aristocracy. In their
treatment of this exposition of the Italian
Risorgimento, told through the eyes of
a feudal, patriarchal Sicilian prince,
they know in their bones and their
very blue bloodstream exactly what
they’re talking about.
Visconti was probably the ideal
director for the film, a man of aristo-
cratic background and attitude, with a
deep 'interest in and knowledge of the
period of the Risorgimenio. He dealt
with this time in an earlier film, “Senso”
(shown here dubbed and villainously
cut). This was made at the height of the
neo-realistic phase and caused his ad-
mirers some dismay. They preferred to
remember his earlier “La Terra Trema”,
one of those films which the cognoscenti
discuss and practically nobody has
seen.
After “Rocco And His Brothers”
(again an aristocrat’s romanticised view
of low life) Visconti turned back to the
world he understands best in “The
Leopard”. Shown at last year’s Cannes
Film Festival, where it won the Best
Film award, it was hailed practically
unanimously as a masterpiece, a bril-
liant translation to the screen of a great
novel.
TViere are indeed hints of this in the
A version showing here, but it is always
painfully evident that we are not seeing
a complete work. It is still a long and
in many ways rich film—it runs for 162
minutes, as against its original version—
but it is basically unsatisfactory.
The cuts were made by the distributors
after the Cannes showing, in the interests
of box - office appeal. Who, they
reasoned, will bother with a movie all
about the Italian politics of a century
past? So most of the specifically
“political bits” have been removed and
the film now concentrates on the
domestic set-up and the love interest.
But the story is about Italian politics,
nothing else, and the family affairs and
the courtship are not only subservient
to but set in motion by the political
events. The cutting has not made the
film into a romantic costume drama; it
has merely made it practically incom-
prehensible.
The distributors apparently had an
uneasy suspicion of this, since after the
credits they have included an old-
fashioned roll-up title which gives a
vague and confused explanation of what
was going on in Italy at the time.
But much of value remains. Burt
Lancaster gives a remarkable per-
formance, intellectually profound and
physically impressive, as the prince who
clearly sees that his world is not only
changing, but gone, and is finally forced
to the bleak realisation that the brave
new one is just as corrupt, muddled and
dishonest as the old.
Visconti uses his camera with unfail-
ing artistry; unforgettable scenes show
the black-clad family kneeling at their
devotions in the light slanting through
the long windows, or sitting like effigies
in dark church pews after a journey,
grey with dust and fatigue. Every scene
is beautifully composed, but the color
photography again gives us second best.
The film, originally shot in Technicolor,
comes to us in a De Luxe print, which
gives rise to strange harshness and con-
trasts. Interiors in natural light come
off best—exteriors and candle-lit indoor
scenes are poor.
In the dubbed version seen here, Burt
Lancaster has the advantage of speaking
in his own voice; it is unfair but un-
avoidable to blame the other actors for
the twangy monotones attributed to
them.
Clash By Day
Knife In The Water. Director,
Roman Polanski.
Tn this film, recently shown in Perth,
A external objects reflect an internal
violence. A young hitch-hiker struggles
with a middle-aged journalist aboard
a sleek yacht, to prove his virility in the
eyes of the older man’s wife. The boy,
young and prepared to sink into experi-
ence even if it means drowning,
approaches life freshly; the journalist is
bored, frustrated, violent and attempts
to recall a virility that perhaps he never
possessed. The young wife is detached,
independent and courageous, mocking
the savagery of the men as if it were the
struggle of children.
The boy-man conflict is depicted with
great truth and relieved by sardonic
humor. Exercising captain’s prerogative,
the journalist forbids whistling except on
the halyard. The boy almost snaps the
mast climbing to the cross-piece. The
boy echoes his orders with an idiot’s
sing-song chant, and shames him with a
demonstration of tick-tack with a knife
between outstretched fingers In reply,
the master orders him to swab the deck.
From this game, a respect springs up


HELP
■> 1
all the year round
between the two as the boat skims
through the waves, the boy striding
ecstatically through the wake, the
woman suddenly young when her
severely bound hair unloosens and flies
in the wind. And then a storm comes.
In the claustrophobic stillness of the
cabin, while the rain pounds outside, the
struggle reasserts itself, when sexual
forfeit is symbolised by exchanged san-
dal and unloosened belt. A knife thuds
in the wood of the cabin door.
The film ends in a long silence in
which the journalist is faced with two
choices either must emasculate him.
Told from a shifting series of point-of-
view, the film has no centre; it is to be
interpreted by the spectator. Life may
be continuous, as the eventual triumph
of the young wife shows, but it is not
a moral adventure. It seems merely to
be a consecutive series of arbitrary
accidents.
P. W. JEFFERY
THEATRE
Dilemma
Critic’s Choice. Ira Levin. Union
Theatre Repertory Company. Union
Theatre. Melbourne.
Tf you are a drama critic and your wife
writes a bad play, what are you to
do? Say it is good, say nothing, or say
it is rotten? Parker Ballantine, leading
New York drama critic, is faced with
this problem when his second wife
Angela writes a play. Being a dedicated
critic, he naturally cannot wait to tear
his wife’s play to shreds, at the same
time making righteous speeches about
his sacred duty to his readers. But
Angela threatens to run away with the
producer if Parker prints his criticism.
Here, it would seem, are all the
ingredients for a critic - confounding
comedy: the exposure of Parker Ballan-
tine as a self-righteous prig. Critics have
to be like that, of course, otherwise they
would wilt under the unanimous hostility
of the rest of humanity. But Mr Levin
takes up the extraordinary attitude that
there is something heroic about Parker
Ballantine’s behavior, when it is per-
fectly obvious that it is simply due to
his nasty critic’s nature.
“Critic’s Choice” belongs to that
genre of American comedy which mixes
wit and sophistication with a doughy
earnestness. Only the minor characters
are allowed to be just funny, and they
make some good jokes. The acid ex-
changes between the first wife (Gerda
Nicolson) and the mother of the second
wife (Dorothy Bradley) are among the
best things in the play. Dennis Miller
does an amusing caricature of a caddish
young producer of smash-hit musicals
such as “Ring-a-Ding-Ding” (the musical
version of “For Whom the Bell Tolls”).
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
TELEVISION
Playtime
HThe year’s first month of TV came in
A with a wan “Gioconda Smile” and
went out muttering “I’ve Been Here
Before”, which had a certain element
of truth to it. ABC Television, running
a series of plays Sunday and Wednesday
nights in Sydney, Melbourne and for all
I know Alice Springs, made three stabs
at keeping local talent in business, but
many viewers must have wondered why.
On the evidence of the other six English
and American television plays, so must
our cousins overseas. Only two of the
nine had even a breath of the distinction
one should have the right to expect when
the programme says “play”, meaning, I
always assume with doomed optimism,
that it is not a mass-produced excitement
entertainment such as any of the
competent, slick television series.
The two mild exceptions, let me say
immediately, were the American pro-
ductions, “The Grass Harp” and “The
Night of the Auk”. One was an adapta-
tion of Truman Capote’s stage play,
which I thought fairly pixieish when I
read it some years ago, but which came
over fine as a photographed stage play,
thanks to the acting of Lillian Gish and
a young fellow named Dick Hyams. “The
Night of the Auk”, a verse play on
to end the world in one easy lesson,
written by Arch Oboler for television, was
treated as a television play, with a bonus
of fine language that tripped from the
actors’ tongues so naturally that its art
was concealed.
In fact it was a little too good, the
practised radio dramatist giving his TV
work more than the medium needs. But
it was never in the same back street as
John Steinbeck’s “Burning Bright”, a
part of which also turned up during the
month, only to prove that 15 years or
so can turn a cloth of gold into a thread-
bare absurdity. The flowery poesy of
Steinbeck’s circus performer in need of
a son was beyond Myron McCormick’s
considerable ability. There was a
lesson in it for dramatists. While the
characters are speaking, the camera is
examining them closely for credibility,
and here the errors of overdoing a
simple thing were farcically visible.
So, I’m afraid, were the results of an
ABC Television attempt at that old
chestnut “The Gioconda Smile”, which
began life as a short story, was adapted
for stage, radio and screen, and has
defied translation into anything re-
sembling a TV play. It was not a bad
short story, and should have been left
in that form until the Mona Lisa herself
turned up to play the name part.
Then we had “A Man For All
Seasons”, which could be excused as a
nice try at photographing a stage play
to present it on television to people who
might not see it otherwise. This is a
very charitable viewpoint, and raises the
immediate question, why not Pinter,
lonesco, Becket or Speedy Gonzales?
The alleged “adaptation” as a tele-
vision play, and the alleged “in world
class” acting, could be seen in pef-
spective by looking at another recent
ABC series which reviewed works of
Aeschylus and Shakespeare under the
general title of “The Angry Gods”. Both
called on their actors to be troubled at
some length, and to make us experience
their hopes, doubts, fears with them. And
in particular a British actor named Nigel
Green, as Leontes in “A Winter’s Tale”,
showed how easily an accomplished actor
can make a television audience come
right into the play. The series was
labelled “for schools”, and for some
people I could think of, attendance
should be mandatory.
I have said, and repeat, that it is not
a TV “play” as defined earlier, unless
by one stratagem or another it gets us
in. We have to be made to experience
it, not merely watch it. You don’t watch
a good stage play, you are drawn up
there and in to the story. The same thing
cannot happen if a stage play, “adapted”
a little, is photographed for the little
screen. There is no immediate rapport.
That has to be created by new methods
—of acting, of direction, of camera
work, lighting, sets. I can only suggest
that the people who want to make tele-
vision plays spend more time, critically,
in front of their sets.
From what we have seen of their
work, the criticism is also applicable to
British TV plays, although it is at least
apparent that they are in combat with
the medium. In the latest British effort
shown on Channel 2 in Sydney, however,
some bug-eyed monsters descended from
outer space on a little English village,
a professor explained that they must be
ferocious, able to multiply easily, and
be impervious to all known weapons.
Then the playwright had them knocked
off by the dozen with a shotgun.
FRANK ROBERTS


POETRY
Aubade
Dumb light
feels about
and finds the windows bare and early
and on the slope
the trees are sharp
as soon as shape describes them surely;
even grass with its grace
knifes the air to point clearly
today’s a world been told already.
In her room with rug and pillow
our small daughter stirs and cries;
last night’s comfort has turned hollow
and cold cuts at her where she lies
proving every naked place.
I lift her quick as light is easy
warm into our rumpled bed
to crouch and cuddle to us closely
till the cold is forced outside;
this much of comfort may be shared.
Awake, 1 stand
and draw the blind
that all the probing light be dulled.
Too early yet
to go out:
I wait and listen to the world.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT
For the death in springtime of an
unborn baby
The earth seems still at odds against the sky
the swept rain’s weeping through the new leaves
hands
the death of winter, while thunder brings
its big guns close to bear against the hills.
For this is wartime the green shoots cut
through sodden fallow, split and pierce the bark
that roofed them from winter, shake new designs
to the air that’s smoking still with sunshine and
cloud.
Life stretches painfully. Tender knobs appear
between the blossoms, between the white hope
stir and extend, or clipped by the sharp ground frost
are lost they reached too soon for the wide world
and found the welcome dreamt of through winters
waiting
didn’t go round. What can I say to you
who wait for comfort for the unborn child’s
death in your womb? My tongue’s fallow of
comfort.
What can I say while you still were dozing
your womb became its own child’s sepulchre?
In this sharp spring, when sniping chance knocks
once or twice all hopes beyond amendment
what is there to say? —an ill wind still patrols
all access to your grief where comfort might
approach and hold. Earth receives our sorrow,
hopes that we’d nourished lose their grip and die
and pass back to their mother where they fire
another burst of growth. Unnatural death
is nature’s .second order, and our share of fate
ploughs dust left dry and fallow into produce.
ANDREW TAYLOR
Monday
Krote sits on the beach at noon
drinking the blood-red wine.
“O how shall I pluck from air some tune
to match this life of mine?”
A Council notice close at hand
says liquor is forbidden.
In a damp hollow in the sand
he keeps his bottle hidden.
A few young mothers come his way.
They frown at Krote, jerking
their children past as if to say
decent men would be working.
Krote thinks: If I had a child . . .
and dreams himself a creature
with smoky hair, whose spirit’s wild
as wind, whose inmost nature
mirrors his love. The crowding gulls
rise, as a dumpy likeness
of Krote’s dream, in spectacles,
stones them. A wave of sickness
shakes him. The child comes close, and hangs
over him with a grin,
then with her metal spade she bangs
sharply on Krote’s shin.
Krote flinches with pain, and scowls.
“Madchen, why do you hit me?”
He grabs the lifted spade. She howls
“Don’t let that bad man get me.”
The women turn from their affairs.
The vicious child lets loose a
torrent of lies. Her mother glares
at Krote like Medusa.
“Monster! You filthy pervert!” scream
the child-envenomed jury;
round his condemned retreat they seam
the tissue of their fury.
In vain this night will Krote try
on the rinsed beach to find
his wine, or lose the thoughts that lie
like stains upon his mind.
FRANCIS GEYER
The Head Next to Mine on the Pillow
(For G.B.)
When I awoke in the morning
There on the pillow beside me lay the moth.
His fluffy head was still tucked down
Like a late sleeper’s, but the eyes, those fascinated
Lamps that had drunk so deep of light
During the night, the eyes were dull. And a soft
powder '
Had fallen from the tattered wings, folded
In the high final dive.
I might have been, perhaps,
The last thing he saw as the light flooded
His gentle body, why yes, it could be
I was a big thing in his life, at the last,
Enigmatic as an Easter Island statue,
Before the tide took him out
To where there is only flying
And all the filaments are friendly.
BRICE DAWE


RED PAGE
Flies in a Bottle
English intellectuals in a blinding fog
By PETER COLEMAN
The Fly and the Fly - Bottle. Ved
Mehta. Weidenfeld and Nicolson.
445. 6d.
The Pattern of Australian Culture.
Edited by A. L. McLeod. O.U.P.
60s.
Ved Mehta, a blind English-educated
Indian who works for “The New
Yorker”, has written a much misunder-
stood book which turns out to be one
of the best studies of the State of Eng-
land Question. Mehta has chosen a new
approach to this subject: avoiding politics-
and-morals, “The Establishment”, Pro-
fumery, etc., he confines himself to Eng-
lish intellectual controversies, and tries to
find out what has gone wrong, par-
ticularly among the crucial groups of
philosophers and historians. He starts
from the fact that although England has
been notable in recent years for the
violence of its intellectual controversies,
its cultural life has at the same time be-
come increasingly sterile —as if people
are trying to make up for having little to
say by saying it angrily and noisily. His
explanation is that the contemporary
philosophers, lacking a serious interest in
science, history and politics, have retreat-
ed to a concentration on linguistic trivia
and clever one-upmanship, while his-
torians lacking philosophy have gone
adrift in storms over Good and Evil and
the meaning of life. As for the future,
he thinks English intellectuals will re-
main, like Ancient Mariners, becalmed
on their painted ocean of controversy
until knowledge becomes systematic
again. But he is optimistic enough to see
signs of this beginning to happen.
“The Fly and the Fly-Bottle” (accord-
ing to Wittgenstein, the philosopher’s job
is to show the fly the way out of the
fly-bottle) begins with the Gellner con-
troversy. In 1959 the British sociologist
Ernest Gellner published a book called
“Words and Things” attacking recent
English philosophy. It had two good
themes. The first was that although the
philosophers pretend to shun old-
fashioned metaphysics, they in practice
insinuate one of their own, usually of a
very conventional type; the second was
that their discussions have become a
matter of scoring points and clever
play with words. The controversy the
book provoked was intensified when the
editor of the leading philosophical
magazine “Mind” pompously refused
to have it reviewed. Letters, pro and
con, poured into “The Times” and in-
volved most leading names in English
philosophy.
From an account of this controversy
Mehta goes on to give a report of
English philosophy today in a period
when most are still “ordinary language”
philosophers but the Wittgenstein wave
is petering out. Mehta uses the inter-
view technique and lets each philosopher
summarise his own position later
getting each one quoted to approve his
summary. Being blind, he had to rely
for his physical descriptions on other,
sometimes less reliable reporters; but
such defects are unimportant. Anyone
wanting a brief map of English
philosophy, with the main monuments
and sights clearly described Gilbert
Ryle, Stuart Hampshire, Richard Hare,
Bertrand Russell, G. J. Warnock, P. F.
Strawson, F. Ayer, Iris Murdoch and
Ernest Gellner—will find it here.
TTnder the pose of a modest reporter,
Mehta is content to seem only to
report and let the philosophers speak for
themselves, with the minimum of com-
mentary. But he selects carefully, and
in any case the philosophers are not
slow to criticise themselves. Here is
Bertrand Russell on Oxford philosophers
in general: “Don’t like them. They
have made trivial something very great.
Don’t think much of their apostle Ryle.
He’s just another clever man. To be a
philosopher now, one needs only to be
clever. They are all embarrassed when
pressed for information, and I am still
old - fashioned and like information.
Once, I was dining at Oxford Exeter
College High Table and asked the
assembled Fellows what the difference
between liberals and conservatives was
in their local politics. Well, each of the
dons produced brilliant epigrams and it
was all very amusing, but after half-an-
hour’s recitation I knew no more about
liberals and conservatives in the college
than I had at the beginning. Oxford
philosophy is like that . . . Most Oxford
philosophers know nothing about science.
Oxford and Cambridge are the last
medieval islands —all right for first-class
people. But their security is harmful to
second-class people it makes them
insular and gaga. That is why English
academic life is creative for some but
sterile for many.”
Russell does, however, respect Ayer
(“He likes information and he has a
first-class style”) who from another angle
supports Russell’s criticism. When
Mehta asked Ayer what, if anything, he
thought all philosophers had in common,
Ayer replied: “Vanity. Yes, vanity is
the sine qua non of philosophers, in
the sciences, you see, there are estab-
lished criteria of truth and falsehood. In
philosophy, except where question of
formal logic is involved, there are none,
and so the practitioners are extremely
reluctant to admit error.” (How they
could, if there are no criteria, is not
clear, but, still, the main point stands.)
Mehta’s conclusion here is that while
the philosophers, like Shakespeare’s
pedants in “Love’s Labour’s Lost”,
“have been at the great feast of languages
and stolen the scraps”, the unsystematic
decades are now being seen as an
aberration and philosophers, notably
men like Strawson and Hampshire, are
leading the way back to the traditional
problems.
The other half of the book is about
English historians —H. R. Trevor-Roper,
A. J. P. Taylor, Arnold Toynbee, Herbert
Butterfield, Christopher Hill, John Brook,
E. H. Carr, C. V. Wedgwood and the
ghost of Lewis Namier. Again he starts
from a controversy, the one aroused by
Trevor-Roper’s denunciation of Toyn-
bee, and then he lets them run through
their main themes Hitler, evil, deter-
minism, war, revolution and so on. In
passing, we get Trevor-Roper dismissing
all his contemporaries; Toynbee re-
marking “Temperamentally I am Hindu.
I don’t have any difficulty in believing
in many gods simultaneously”; A. J. P.
Taylor on Namier: “He took the mind
out of politics, so I don’t think he’ll
survive”; Peter Geyl: “If anyone wants
to know what I think he can jolly well
learn Dutch.” There is also a beautiful
account by Lady Namier of her
husband’s last hours alive (“What a
pity!” he said, when forbidding her to
inconvenience the doctor by ringing him
at 4 a.m. shortly before he, Namier, died.
“Yesterday was the first time I saw in
my mind’s eye the survey of Parliament
as a whole.”).
Each pursuing the bees in his own
bonnet, the historians form much less of
“a movement” than the philosophers,
but they seem both more serious-minded
and unbalanced. At this point he makes
clear his main theme. Controversy in its
good sense is at the heart of all cultural
life, but in England it risks burying the
participants in a “miasmic blinding fog.”
“Going for the largest game, creating
an intellectual sensation, striking a
posture, sometimes at the expense of
truth, arguments against a book or its
author in the most relentless, sometimes
violent way, engaging the interest of
practically the whole intelligentsia by


using every nook and cranny of
journalism” —such is English intellectual
life, a matter of noise and entertainment,
of flies stuck in a fly-bottle. So it will
remain until the art of real controversy
is revived by a return to the “Common
Pursuit.”
llThatever one says finally of Mehta’s
thesis —and he is better at illustra-
ting what is wrong than in recommend-
ing cures —he has chosen a revealing
way of approaching the State of England
Question. We need such a book badly
in Australia, a book reporting on the
controversies among, say, Australian
historians, physicists and philosophers, to
see what is wrong or right about Aus-
tralian intellectual life . . .
This seems particularly worth empha-
sising now since a book has just come
out “The Pattern of Australian
Culture,” edited by A. L. McLeod of
Lock Haven State College, Pennsylvania
—which approaches the subject largely
from an opposite point of view (and in
which the two best chapters are on
Mehta’s two groups, the philosophers
and the historians).
John Passmore, always a good
historian of ideas, gives a useful outline
of the history of Australian philosophy,
from the colonial period of religious
hostility to philosophy on to the period
of Idealist domination, the advent of
the Andersonians, followed by the Witt-
gensteinians, up to the present period.
He begins with a paradox that a
country as philistine as this has produced
such a lively philosophic life. One hopes
this is so, but unfortunately he doesn’t
demonstrate it. His best evidence is a
list of eight “substantial books” (in-
cluding, rightly, two of his own)
produced within Australian universities
in recent years. But after that his account
becomes a fairly undiscriminating list of
names —as if he is afraid of forgetting
to mention someone. Who on earth
wants to know that someone or other
is “attracting attention” or that someone
else “reads extensively”? Passmore
would have done better to have started
from the “often fierce” discussions in
Australian philosophy to which he refers
in passing and told us the main positions,
the main people and how they argue.
But, even so, in the course of his
account he makes several interesting
points, particularly about Andersonians
—Anderson’s revival of 19th century
Australian freethought, and the homing
instinct of Andersonians who seem to
find Sydney life the most congenial in
the world. Some of his other remarks
are less happy, such as the conventional
cant about Australian illiberalism forcing
philosophers into a constant turmoil over
censorship and academic freedom “which
are matters of life and death to philoso-
phers.” Philosophers certainly have done
their bit in Australia, especially in the
Orr case, but on general issues they have
done far less, and seem to care far less
than, for example, lawyers, journalists
or the clergy.
John Ward’s chapter on historians was
unfortunately written before volume one
of Manning Clark’s “A History of Aus-
tralia” appeared and the subsequent
controversy blew up. Since Clark's book
represented a major new way of writing
Australian history, the scene has changed
since its appearance. But Ward gives a
good account of the other attempts at
rewriting Australian history and breaking
up the old legends: “The time is rapidly
approaching” he concludes, “when
historians will see their country’s history
clearly and wholly as no one has ever
seen it before.”
Other chapters on literature, art, music
etc., are thorough and competent, but
the book’s basic weakness shows up in
contrast with Mehta’s book. Mehta
realised that to get the feel of a country
you must know what people argue about,
and how. In this book, on the other hand,
we have a chapter on science which
doesn’t mention the disputes over the
organisation of nuclear physics, a chapter
about education that doesn’t discuss the
controversies about the Wyndham Report,
the Murray Report, or the Universities
Commission’s Reports; and chapters in
other fields which emphasise “progress”
rather than disagreement, without re-
cognising that one man’s progress makes
another man sick.
All these chapters contain good
material, which will be useful to
American students, but they will not
give them the feel of Australian life, of
the things Australians take seriously
enough to argue about. Anyone who
wants to produce a book about in-
tellectual life should read Mehta first,
to learn how to do it.
Protests
The Ragman's Daughter. Alan Sillitoe.
W. H. Allen. 20s.
Down By The Dockside. Criena Ro-
han. Gollancz. 26s.
romanticised celebration of the
A working class which has passed for
realism in the British drama and novel
of the last ten years has had no more
devoted spokesman than Alan Sillitoe. In
“Saturday Night and Sunday Morning”
and “The Loneliness of The Long-
Distance Runner” he realised (or
created) the whole mystique of the
Nottingham slums, and a distinct
morality emerged. The inbred resent-
ment of authority, as exercised by the
police and the factory bosses, the
alternate complaining acceptance of and
spirited rebellion against working and
living conditions, the disregard for the
iaw, the enthusiastic drinking and
fornicating which provide the common
releases—all these are personified by
Arthur Seaton and by Smith. All these,
too, are counterpointed by a rough
appreciation of the poetic, some awk-
ward sensation of creativity and indivi-
duality that his heroes feel and cannot
channel, but demonstrate involuntarily
(as in Seaton’s escape to the tranquillity
of the river). The stories in “The Rag-
man’s Daughter” apparently break no
new ground. The characters are still the
same, in the same milieu, but Sillitoe is
not merely repeating himself. He is work-
ing out his saga of the slums and follow-
ing through its every implication.
The heroes of his stories here are
still types but they have personal
idiosyncrasies. He concentrates his
attention on the particular impulse
giving rise to particular behavior, and
the consequent variations on the assumed
morality. In the title story the two
teenagers share the thrill of stealing and
sex for the sake of the thrill alone.
Their activities are an implicit rejection
of the social system rather than merely
selfish gratification. Their amorality is a
protest.
Tn “To Be Collected”, the momentary
rebellion of one of three brothers
affirms his right to be heard, and the
parody of democracy is asserted, through
the respect arising out of fear and fear
arising out of respect. “The Bike”, too,
explores on another level the com-
plicated allegiances of the working class.
Here the hero is robbed by his friends,
but there is no suggestion of assisting
the police. Justice is a personal right and
the rules are ones of convention among
your fellows, not the enacted laws of
the land; “. . . it was lucky for him
I hated the coppers and wouldn’t nark
on anybody, not even a dog. Dad would
have killed me if ever I had, though
he didn’t need to tell me.”
Sillitoe likes his people, and his stories
are tributes to them. He writes with
complete understanding of their dilemmas
and their attitudes, and his ear is attuned
to their expression of them. He knows
their reactions to injustice (“The Good
Women”), and to personal tragedy
(“The Magic Box”), because he knows
them. Perhaps because he is so involved
he loses some objectivity, for Ins tributes
sometimes become idealisations.
Where Sillitoe’s sentiment is terse and
rough, the late Criena Rohan’s is
maudlin. The stories in “The Ragman’s
Daughter” generate their own emotional
response, but “Down By The Dockside”
is one long sentimental journey. It traces
the life of Lisha, the delightful Irish-
Australian girl from Port Melbourne,
beginning with her childhood in the
squalor of the depression years, through
her turbulent first marriage and de-
generation after widowhood, to her final


resurrection in the district ot her birth.
The vitality and spun, ot Lisha infects
the book and Miss Rohan enlists the
sympathy ot her readers for her as she
struggles against her poverty, and
generously gives herself to those she
loves and believes in, until finally,
inevitably, she finds the happiness she
deserves. "the plot is familiar, and the
characters, from the wise and in-
destructible grandmother to the
roistering, irrepressible Unc'e Shaun, are
too, but there is a sincerity in Miss
Rohan’s writing that gives her book a
certain freshness. She finds hope in
ugliness and faith in adversity. It is
Lisha’s contagious optimism revolving
always around the sea and those who
sail it, that relegates all that is depressing
to merely transient relevance, and allows
Miss Rohan to voice her faith in
humanity.
Port Melbourne is not too different
from Nottingham. Against the mean
streets, the people have much in
common. But Miss Rohan’s slum is
rather diluted and its inhabitants slightly
quaint compared with the spare and
incisive impressions of “The Ragman’s
Daughter”.
MICHAEL THOMAS
Man on a Camel
Cooper’s Creek. Alan Moorehead.
Hamish Hamilton. 30s.
"jV/JT R. Moorehead seeks to epitomise the
pathetic story of those strange
explorers, Burke and Wills. He declares
he was inspired to write the book by
Sidney Nolan and illustrates it with Mr
Nolan’s paintings in reproduction, which
may be great art —but are certainly not
history. Nolan has a picture of Burke
leaving Melbourne, not as he did it in
blue coat, red shirt, gleaming boots and
huge conical “cabbage-tree” above a
large spade beard, but as a pathetic little
man in what used to be called a “Labor”
hat shading a miserable pointed chin-
fungus. He is mounted—in most curious
fashion —on a belled camel instead of on
his famous caracoling horse Billy. The
Melbourne he is leaving is not the crow-
ded and hurrying Royal Park of reality,
but a Melbourne as Sydneians would
like it to be: a replica of a deserted
Roman ruin in the wastes of Libya in-
habited (apart from Mr Burke) only by
about a dozen mixed genders of depres-
sing aspect, one doubtful camel and a
lady and nag, both apparently fresh from
a pub crawl, judging by their attitudes.
As Mr Burke was scarcely the man
to lead his ill-fated expedition, so Mr
Moorehead, though he produces an
arresting and very readable narrative, is
scarcely qualified by experience to assess
him and his performance. As a
Melburnian, everything outside that
Europeanised city seems to have been
horrible throughout history. The land-
scape ot this dreadful continent was and
is to him, “so primitive, so lacking in
greenness, so silent, so old” marked
“not by a measurable antiquity,” but
by “an appearance of exhaustion and
weariness in the land itself” so that
“the very leaves of the trees hung down
dejectedly; trees from which the bark
dried up and cracked on the tree trunks
and then peeled off like the discarded
skin of a snake.” This seems to apply
to the whole continent.
In 1860, it seems, “settlers had as yet
failed to take possession of or even
explore the land they were so confidently
governing” and “perched on the extreme
southern and eastern edge” of the
continent in “little capsules . . en-
compassed by a huge unknown wilder-
ness . . . suspended in space If they
stepped outside the capsule they were
lost.” For men in that position it might
be suggested by a historian that the
capsulians had shown a remarkable
disposition to “step outside” their holes
of refuge and a more remarkable ability
not to get lost.
At the time of Burke and Wills they
had pushed their squatting frontiers on
the east, right out beyond the west of
the Riverina in NSW, and were on the
point of invading the Channel Country,
and had invaded the Central West of
Queensland and were exploring the
North as far as Townsville with a view
to imminent settlement.
However, Mr Moorehead is well in-
fected with travellers’ tales couched in
poetic exasperation. Centra! Australia—
that is from Menindie westward —was
certainly not a comfortable place in the
pre-refrigerator, motor-car, flying doctor
days; but thousands of Australians with-
out any resources save a billycan and a
“bluey” moved all over the land in
which Burke and Wills died and over
worse farther north-west—the Murrinji
track for example.
Hundreds who braved “the incredibly
high temperatures the dreadful thirst,
the mirages . . .” which “reduced human
beinss to tiny atoms in these desolate
wastes” with “no shade or shelter any-
where” survived where Burke with all
his resources perished.
The secret of his tragedy was
ineptitude, both of himself and of the
crassly isnorant academic Phdosophical
Society which chose him to lead the
expedition in preference to a plenitude
of tough and experienced bushmen
offerins and even Warburton. who was
available, and ignored all the advice of
men innured to interior conditions.
The secret of the success of such an
expedition would have been to make
it two seasonal—first the establishment
of solid depots to the edge of settlement
with proper lines of communication;
then retreat till the next winter and a
start at the onset of the “dry” with a
picked team acting in relays, edging
cautiously forward in reasonably short
daily stages with provisions and stock
being brought up by a second party
for the return journey so that the spear-
head could move lightly equipped.
Instead of some such plan, Burke, the
red-shirted inexperienced gentleman
policeman who had the reputation of
losing his way regularly off beaten
tracks, set out encumbered with enough
camels to stock the ark bulls and cows
together and all overloaded, and with
drays taken where drays could not go,
and with a team of men incongruous and
unsuitable which he had not the experi-
ence or the temperament to lead. He set
his one main forward depot on the
Cooper waterhole out. on a limb, and
made it dependent for communication
with civilisation on the promise of a
casual station employee whom he had
picked up en route and trusted on the
spot virtually with all their lives.
TTe himself set off for his dash to the
Gulf from this depot with mixed
camels and horses and three companions,
not one with experience of the interior.
They travelled at breakneck pace, 11 or
12 hours a day, in the height of a hot
summer, against all advice from Gregory
and other experienced men and without
thought apparently about the exhaustion
of their rations. Burke’s instructions to
his depot leader (Brahe) at the Cooper
had been utterly inadequate and left
him at liberty to depart southward after
three months from the charming scene
in which “the myriad insects crept and
crawled and flew about them ... the
horrendous six inch centipedes with their
great nippers, the scorpions, the soft
moths, the stick insects, the beetles with
huge transparent wings and the teeming
ants” and “the flies and the rats”. (Mr
Moorehead seems to have forgotten the
savage wichetty grubs snarling in the
bushes and rapacious wood adders
crushing the bones of slain dingoes in
the dark fringes of the camp.)
Lacking instinct, flair, and bushmanship
Burke blundered back from the Gulf
at a stage at which he had told his
deputy that he could be considered as
“perished” if he had not returned. The
evidence before the Royal Commission
into the tragedy which cost the lives
of all the spearhead party save King,
the youthful Englishman who had come
from India with the camels and the
experiences of the parties which searched
for the explorers under Gregory,
McKinlay, Landsborough, Hewitt and
the rest told only half the story of the
lassitude and ineptitude of the Mel-
bourne Committee and the futility of
nearly everybody else in authority
concerned not only in the main drive
to Carpentaria but in the comings and
goings of the base parties between


LEARN
STORY
WRITING
STOTT S CAN TRAIN YOU
SUCCESSFULLY
If you have a flair for writing, then STOTT'S
Literary Courses will develop your talent.
Practical Home-Study instruction, under the
guidance of expert instructors will teach you
to write successfully for Australian and
overseas markets. There is a constant
demand for well-written work in the lucra-
tive field of Authorship.
Write today for free details of Stott's Cor-
respondence Courses in Literary subjects.
Stulls Correspondence tolleqe
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 383 George
Street, Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
45 Gilics Street, Adelaide; 254 Murray Street,
Perth.
CUT AND MALL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT'S; Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full particulars
of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE
B 364
Menindie and the Cooper which Brahe
and Wright visited when Burke and Wills
were only 30 miles away after their
return journey from Carpentaria.
The most potent commentary on the
whole enterprise was the establishment
of stations right up to the fringes of
Burke’s route within the next decade
by Lindsay and Howe of Planet and
Arrabury, by Costello, and Durack,
(Kyabra), McGregor of Durham Downs
and Conrick of Nappamerry, Campbell
of Chastleton, Munro of Nockatunga.
Hysterics cloaked the blunders and
the ineptitude of Burke was buried under
the monument denied to the competent
explorers. Their deaths made Burke and
Wills immortal in Australian history. It
was a curious anti-climax. As Mr
Moorehead writes: “Without the tragedy
on the Cooper they would have remained
rather minor figures, but with it they
were lifted to ... a higher plane, one
might even say a state of grace.”
M. H. ELLIS
Cross-Section
Australian Idiom. Ed. H. P. Heseltine.
Cheshire. 30s.
The Burning Perch. Louis MacNeice.
Faber. 25s.
Tn his brief introduction, H. P. Hesel-
tine has a not unreasonable each-
way bet on the contents of his new antho-
logy. On the one hand, he is offering a
“cross - section”, “representative selec-
tions” or “readable” work; on the
other, he is looking for “the best”, for
writing of “lasting literary merit” and
in general for writers “who have made
a substantial contribution to Australian
letters”. The result is a book fairly
similar in flavor to a couple of earlier
Cheshire anthologies, “Australia Writes”
and “Australian Signpost” a book
aimed at Virginia Woolf’s “common
reader”.
“Australian Idiom” is divided into
three parts, fiction, poetry and general
prose. The last-named ranges through
history, Australiana, literary criticism
and Robin Boydian criticism to Elyne
Mitchell’s atmospheric sketch “Birds of
the Upper Murray”, and Roland Robin-
son’s excellent recounting of aboriginal
fables. There could well have been a
lot more in this short and disparate
section, and correspondingly less fiction.
For the fiction, short stories and pieces
excised from novels make up a heavy
two-thirds of the volume and have a pre-
vailing air of worthiness rather than of
excitement.
The novel extracts are partly at fault
here. Only Herbert’s “Dawn of a New
Era” stands up confidently as a self-
contained narrative unit. The best thing
in this section is Vance Palmer’s beautiful
story, “The Rainbow Bird”, which
evinces a delicacy of feeling rare in
Australian fiction. Frank Dalby Davison,
Peter Shrubb and Hal Porter stand out
among the other contributors for their
awareness that language is a precise
and flexible instrument of exploration
and not just the raw materia! of story-
telling; Manning Clark’s “Monologue of
a Man in Black” shows a rare interest
in the cutting-edges of politics and
religion; and C. B. Christesen’s high-
spirited story arouses a regret that he
does not write more often.
The poetry includes selections from
an expected Big Seven —Slessor, Fitz-
Gerald, Mackenzie, Stewart, Wright
Hope and McAuley—together with a
greyish extract from Ingamells’ “Great
South Land ”, the inclusion of which can
only be justified on historical grounds.
Wright and Hope suffer here because
Dr Heseltine seems to have gone out of
his way to avoid their best-known
poems; however, the selection from
Stewart admirably displays his freshness
and lightness of touch, two sharply
contrasted poems by Kenneth Mackenzie
give some sense of imaginative range,
and the placing of McAuley’s “Cele-
bration of Love” and “Celebration of
Divine Love” side by side gives a thumb-
nail critical sketch of that poet’s develop-
ment from an energetic but wayward
play of creative intelligence to a cool,
impersonal clarity.
Although the title suggests that “Aus-
tralian Idiom” has propositions to offer
about a characteristic national tone of
voice, Dr Heseltine is very properly
cautious about any such claims. His
book is best regarded as a piece of
general reading, of most interest to those
who have a general but as yet unformed
interest in modern Australian literature.
From many Antipodeans to one
Anglo-Irishman. Louis MacNeice died
last year and his reputation, begun in
the ’thirties under the shadow of Auden,
must now come up for a final reckoning.
“The Burning Perch"’, published within
a few weeks of his death and shot
through with rumors of mortality, will
not, I think, have much influence on that
reputation.
These poems remind us of the
attendant dangers for a man of such
catholic interests and free-wheeling
knowledgeability. Far too much of Mac-
Neice’s poetry has always been chatty
and clever. We remember early successes
like the immortal “Bagpipe Music”,
“Perseus” and “August”, with its
desperate conclusion:
But all this is a dilettante’s lie,
Time’s face is not stone nor still his
wings,
Our mind, being dead, wishes to have
time die
For we being ghosts cannot catch hold
of things.
From these he went nimbly on,
catching hold of this and that, inventing
new verse forms and recording myriad
perceptions in poems that were almost
always lively and readable, if all too
seldom really decisive.
A number of poems in “The Burning
Perch"’ (the title comes from a poem
about a budgerigar) show MacNeice at
his weakest, recording childhood
memories, putting together choruses
from children's games and cultivating a
sadly inconsequential epistolary manner
in the sequence entitled “Memoranda
to Horace”. But here and there he can
move us deeply enough, particularly in
recording feelings of loss and regret.
“The Habits” and “Greyness is All”
are good, clean lyrics, owing something
to Auden’s recent work but standing
well enough on their own feet. There
is his graceful farewell to London, the
chorus of which (“Nevertheless let the
petals fall fast from the flower of cities
all”) makes an eloquent variation on
Dunbar's famous poem. And “After the
Crash”, a condensed narrative of defeat,
emptiness, despair, succeeds in making
the flesh creep. These things at least we
can remember.
MacNeice was a poet from whom I
have had a great deal of pleasure: I pay
him the tribute of my gratitude.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Reorganising the Money Market
The expansion of the official short-term money market
since its inauguration in February, 1959, has been quite
remarkable, as the graph on this page shows. Reserve
Bank limitation of funds to be accepted, initially £2O million,
now stands at £155 million.
So liquid is the Australian economy that moneys entering the
market are continually pressing against the barrier. Recognised
dealers mostly unite in urging the removal of all restrictions
on size.
In Dr Coombs’ words, these were “designed to assist orderly
development . . . and to guard
against undue disturbance of the
bond and loan markets from a
sudden heavy demand for
securities by dealers”. Yet he
has also had to admit how some
unplaced money takes a path to
an unofficial market, “operating
without any Reserve Bank back-
ing as lender of last resort but,
in the circumstances, having a
fairly reliable volume of funds
available"’.
The deployment of abund-
ant liquidity does not stop here,
however. Money-flush compan-
ies have taken to lending to
others with particular seasonal
demands. This well-developed
inter-company loan market is
believed to equal the size of the
official market.
All told, with the unofficial
market holding an estimated
£ 100 million, about £4OO mil-
lion of short-dated money might
be running through the financial
system. Only £l5O million is
at present under direct official
control.
On general economic grounds
the Treasury and the Reserve Bank must be keeping watchful
eyes upon the situation. The Reserve is being nudged as well by
two very interested parties, the dealers and the trading banks.
For the dealers Sir lan Potter has put it simply: “It appears
that to a substantial extent funds were diverted to avenues
paying higher rates than the established short-term money
market. The result was that the cost of money to that market
did not reduce in line with the lower yields on Common-
wealth Government securities which comprise the earning
assets of the approved short-term dealers.”
The trading banks are even more intimately concerned. Back-
stopping the inter-company loans is unused bank overdraft!
Interest payable is usually one p.c. or so above the official mar-
ket rates and the ceiling is set by the borrower’s overdraft rate.
The graph above shows Joans deposited in the short-term
money market, from its inception to the end of 1963, by
banks and other clients. As at the week ended January 22,
the market held £153 million.
Admittedly the companies shuffling their spare funds around
appear to be the bluest of blue chips (one failure to repay
could snowball and shatter the scheme). They can obtain cash
cheaply, to the extent of the uncalled portion of an overdraft
arrangement. Rates hover betwen 3+ and 4 p.c. against an
average overdraft charge at 6 p.c.
Not unnaturally the trading banks have become worried
about the possible drift of income and also about the uncer-
tainties in guessing ahead on liquidity. They never know where
and when a granted overdraft
will be exercised.
Questions of general liquidity
and the overall pattern of in-
terest rates assuredly draw the
attention of the Reserve Bank.
Dr Coombs seems in no violent
hurry to intervene, but he is at
this moment being prodded by
the trading banks in their own
specific concerns.
Firstly, they ask for permis-
sion to place a “commitment”
fee on parts of unexercised
overdrafts. To bite into the
inter-company interest advant-
age, the fee would probably
have to slide between H and 2
p.c.
Then the banks are seeking
the right to take very short-
term money, say for a mini-
mum 14 days, at rates close to
the inter-company levels. In this
instance the smallest acceptable
deposit suggested is <£25,000,
w'hich happens to be. too, the
smallest separate amount al-
lowed to enter the official short-
term market.
It is felt that Dr Coombs can
in due course accede to these two requests after further con-
sideration of the whole liquidity position.
The diversion of some short-term funds would of necessity
change, though a vigorous official market tied to the mechan-
ism of authorised Government securities (including Treasury
Notes) need not diminish in size. Trading banks, the biggest
single depositors, would still patronise the market.
One prime end result must be to weld the movements of
short-term funds closer to Government policy, where they have
to be if the interest-rate weapon is to prove decisive.
Looking further ahead, both banks and dealers are urging
the creation of an official market in commercial bills and semi-
Government securities. Australia’s discount market would
thereby, in overseas terms, be complete.


A Chastened Bear or
A Sour Bear?
Considerable discussion has occurred on the Soviet’s current
economic performance following publication of the US
Central Intelligence Agency report which states that Russia’s
national income increased by only 2i p.c. in the past two
years. Russia claims that its own official figures for national
income, which exclude what Soviet statisticians term unpro-
ductive services, dropped from 8 p.c. in 1960 to 7 p.c. in
1961 and to 6 p.c. in 1962.
Allowing for the fact that the CIA would have a political
axe to grind (including the US line opposing long-term
credits to Russia at a time when most nations are busting
themselves to get rid of commodity surpluses, machinery,
equipment, and consumer goods), it is being argued that the
CIA would have access to more reliable information than
most independent outside observers.
If the CIA is correct in its calculations, Russia has suffered
a greater setback economically than previously estimated.
This would mean that economic planners in other countries
could predict a greater underpinning for commodity prices
(notably wheat) and a forced diversion of Soviet expenditure
from defence to fertiliser, chemicals and other items which
the Russian people have been promised but have not yet
received in quantity.
With Russia heavily occupied with internal problems, and
Red China likely to prove more exasperating now that France
has recognised her, Western observers may assume that
Russia would be less anxious to apply any political pressure
to the West. And, if the USA achieves its object in influencing
other nations not to make credit sales of vital equipment to
Russia (like chemical plants), the Russian Bear may have
to play it soft for a round or two.
commodity situation has particular interest for primary
producing nations like Australia, because Red China also
has experienced crop failures and is likely to require more
wheat.
Not everyone accepts the CIA report, even in America,
and experts are now trotting out their own series of figures
which suggest that the Russian economy, although achieving
a much slower growth in some sections, is continuing to
perform well in heavy industry, electric power, crude oil,
natural gas, iron and steel . . . all, of course, at the expense
of the light consumer industries.
There is no doubting that the agricultural policy in the
Soviet has been a failure and that the Soviet leaders are
trying desperately to plug a few holes, mostly at the expense
of Russia’s gold reserves, which could have been drained by
500 million dollars last year, equal to about three years’
production if CIA’s estimates are correct. Grain shipments
already ordered by Russia this year could cost a further
500 million dollars.
The obvious drain on Russia’s gold reserves, allied with
her inability to achieve suitable exports, underlines the serious
deficiencies caused by trying to sustain a military and space
programme on inadequate resources.
Critics of the CIA report say that big variations in the
estimates are possible, depending on whether roubles or
dollars are used as the basis of computation. Another apparent
contradiction is the CIA calculation that Soviet investment
in new plant and equipment is almost equal to that of the
US, yet it asserts that the Soviet national product was only
47 p.c. of the US national product in 1962 compared with
the Russian claim of 62 p.c. Revaluation of investment in
terms of US dollars could contribute to such distortion.
Nonetheless, the CIA report effectively torpedoes Khrush-
chev’s claim that Soviet production would overtake the US by
1970.
An important aspect which emerges from the heated
discussions on Russia’s economic problems, however, is the
rise in employees, outside collective farms, to 70.6 million
in 1963 compared with the planned expansion to only 66.5
million by 1965. This figure is expected to reach 76 million
by 1965, placing a strain on housing and food.
Lack of fodder for livestock has forced more meat on the
market but, because of the acute bread shortage, prices have
increased for meat, butter and certain other farm products.
The demand for extra wheat from outside sources therefore
could remain strong while Russia plants bumper crops for
the next few years.
These setbacks to agriculture, housing, consumer industries
and also the lack of resources to expand vitally needed
chemical industries have been interpreted as forcing Russia
to cut back on defence, particularly if Western credits are
withheld.
But it also could provoke thoughts of territorial ambition
as a means of placating those employees who have been
promised more consumer goods but are now short of bread.
A Case for the Export of
Australian Capital
Commonwealth Banking Corporation’s recent book-
let, “Australia and the World Today”, merits, first, praise
and then a goodly stint of concentrated study. Designed
particularly to examine the newer Middle Eastern, East
African, Asian and South American markets for Australia’s
exports, it adopts a much more realistic and hard-headed
approach than most of the usual optimistic surveys
There is little glib talk about the superficial aspects of
packaging and promotion, but a reasoned examination of
costs, finance and exporting restraints flowing from the
Australian production environment.
A special argument emerges for increased Australian private
investment overseas, now small enough in all conscience.
This kind of investment reached £86.6 million in the 10 years
to June 30, 1962, affecting international reserves by a mere
£5.1 million.
Net direct investment inflow during the same period totalled
£1050 million.
“These figures indicate that there is ample room for
expansion of overseas investments by Australians before
balance-of-payments considerations become significant. The
emphasis on joint ventures and technical advice and services
in underdeveloped markets opens up prospects for a break-
through in Australia's trade drive which cannot be ignored,”
the Corporation makes clear.
For such direct investment can protect markets endangered
by local manufacture or import restrictions.
Again, underdeveloped countries (where many of our export
opportunities lie) favor imports of capital equipment, raw
materials and foodstuffs, yet slant their internal policies
towards lifting food production and encouraging import
replacement of consumer goods and processed raw materials.
It is along those very lines that Australia tends to direct
its export programmes.
Far wiser, the Corporation suggests, to consider also the
lack of technical and managerial skills, plus shortages of
capital, in a number of Australia’s newer export outlets.
Malaysia gives a prime example of a country keenly
encouraging foreign capital and skills.
Continuous attention to these industrial opportunities might
valuably correct Australia’s present undue reliance on the
export of primary commodities.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Fitting in More for Defence
An optimistic product of Keynesian thinking
HThe economic problems and sequences
involved in stepping up Australia’s
defence expenditure, in the light of the
more difficult international climate to
our north, received a good airing at the
Australian Institute of Political Science
Summer School in Canberra last week.
The highlight of this side of the dis-
cussion was a paper written by Professor
R. I. Downing on “The Cost of De-
fence”, but it was argued in discussion
that this fine product of Keynesian think-
ing was perhaps a little optimistic on the
grounds that it displayed no fears about
the economy pressing ahead on all in-
vestment fronts, including social invest-
ment and foreign aid, at the same time
as spending substantially more on
defence in the next few years.
His logic, if not his conclusions, can-
not be faulted. “First we need to realise
that defence expenditures cannot be
assessed in terms of what we ‘need’. If
we spent our whole national product on
defence, it would be only one-quarter
of what America is already spending,
and it would presumably still not be
enough to guarantee our survival in all
circumstances.
“Nor can defence expenditure be
determined by what we can ‘afford’.
That depends entirely on the circum-
stances in which we find ourselves. At
the peak of our effort in World War II
we found we could afford some 40 p.c.
of our product for our defence. We
could then certainly afford a much
larger amount in 1964 than 3 p.c. if we
wished to.
“fpHE proper criterion,” he continued,
“is that we should spend on defence
whatever is needed more for defence
than for all the other current and
developmental purposes for which we
might alternatively use our resources.
As President Eisenhower put it as long
ago as 1953, the cost of one modern
bomber is 30 schools or two electric
power plants each serving a population
of 60,000; or two fully-equipped large
hospitals; or 50 miles of concrete high-
way.
“We need some of our resources for
our sustenance, some for our pleasure,
some for our development, some for
helping other countries and some for
defence. We can decide how much we
shall allocate to any one of these uses
only in the light of what priority we give
to incremental increases in each of our
allocations.
“Unfortunately, this criterion for
resource allocation is not easily quanti-
fiable—economic judgments rarely are.
But some of its aspects can be quanti-
fied and it does remind us how many
different and difficult issues we have to
keep in mind in. trying to arrive at a
rational policy for defence expenditure.
“In particular, since the answer de-
pends on social attitudes as well as on
facts, we need a great deal of enlightened
discussion and argument about the com-
munity’s priorities in respect of defence
and all its other objectives.”
Cutting a lot of corners, Professor
Downing formed his criterion for deter-
mining Australia’s defence needs on the
cost of paying our way in the Western
alliance, on which our security is funda-
mentally dependent. He postulated that
the cost of meeting our own likely needs
for defence against actual invasion would
be less than the contribution we should
be making towards sustaining the
alliance.
TTowever, the author took what was
certainly a very broad and sophisti-
cated view of the sort of activities which
should be reckoned as contributions to
the alliance. It was not simply a matter
of direct expenditure on defence in the
budgetary sense. Professor Downing
outlined a case for including expenditure
on economic development, investment,
immigration, education and foreign aid
as well.
Of course, if all these are to be con-
sidered as contributions to the alliance,
the Professor’s argument for increasing
expenditure on all of them in the name
of defence must be accepted, but it is
surely for our allies to decide what is an
acceptable contribution.
At one point Professor Downing can-
vassed the point whether it would pay
the other members of the alliance to
have Australia concentrate on its own
development, we paying them a cash
sum for looking after our defence in the
conventional sense. He suggested that
this might virtually have been partly
what we were doing before 1940 through
our preferential trade agreements with
the United Kingdom.
However anxious Professor Downing
was to have all these activities thrown •
into the pot of our overall contribution
to the alliance, he was quite frank in
saying that on the figures the present
proportion (22i p.c.) of investment to
GNP here was not high enough to justify
the very low proportion (2.7 p.c.) of
GNP we are currently devoting directly
to defence (in the conventional sense).
Indeed, perhaps as a good Keynesian,
he sees in this a fine reason for stepping
up investment and for substantiating his
general thesis of lumping them together
as defence activities.
While Professor Downing seemed no
less attracted to increasing expenditure
on direct defence activities than on
general economic and social ones, that
was certainly not the case with Dr A. R.
Millar who read a brilliant paper to the
school pin-pointing our precise de-
ficiencies in the various defence services.
Millar had a long and detailed
shopping list of necessary additional
requirements of the armed forces whose
cost would bring our direct defence
expenditure to substantially more than
the £3OO million we would be spending
in 1968 as at present officially envisaged.
If all the gaps in our defences seen
by Dr Millar were filled by 1968, direct
expenditure on defence would be more
likely to be taking 5 p.c. rather than
the 3.2 p.c. of GNP it would otherwise
be taking by then. On the other hand,
some of these gaps would seem to be
already covered by our mutual arrange-
ments with partners in the alliance.
Taking in our direct defence expendi-
ture and all our indirect contributions to
the alliance (some of which, like de-
velopment, investment and immigration,
obviously overlap), Professor Downing
asserted that for many years to come
we may have to devote “an extra 2,3, 4
or 5 p.c. of resources” to defence and
we would have to learn to live with this
as a continuing problem.
It followed from this that we would
have to cut expenditure on consumption
from its present level of 74.2 p.c. of
GNP to something between 72.2 and
69.2 p.c. This, of course, got to the
heart of the matter.
Incidentally, such cuts in the share of
GNP going to consumption here would
bring us below the ratio (72.4) for the
United States and much lower than
Britain (75.9), both of whom Professor
Downing expects to be spending a lower
proportion of GNP on defence in the
next few years.
Surprising as it may seem, Professor
Downing told the Summer School that
he would not expect any serious dif-
ficulties to ensue from the necessary re-
allocation of resources entailed by in-
creasing the share of GNP going to
direct and indirect defence activities by
from 2 to 5 p.c. in the next few years.
Apparently he would rely almost ex-
clusively on taxation to get the necessary
cut in consumption to free resources for
use in these other activities, and he
would also be relying heavily on a rapid


Too Much
W armth
This can certainly break up friendships.
Especially in Summer. The answer is more
coolth. The office building is a good
example. Everyone wants better air con-
ditions, especially if accompanied by low
costs. This is where controlled mechanical
ventilation comes into its own. It re-
moves all stale air, smoke, cooking
odours and the like, replacing con-
tinuously with clean filtered air. No need
to do the whole building at once
have a test area treated first.
O
■Sjfk
Ventilation Systems
By the VENT-AXIA Division
Manufacturers Special Products Pty. Ltd.
47 York Street, Sydney. 2 0233
(representatives in all States)
increase in GNP to soften the cut in
consumption’s share of it.
One would have thought that in the
absence of a defence emergency some-
thing more would be needed in present
circumstances to squeeze consumption
sufficiently to free the necessary re-
sources for the substantially higher share
of GNP he favors going to defence
activities in the broad sense he defines
them.
He could be relying too heavily on
getting the necessary rise in GNP to
alleviate the cut in consumption’s share
of it, the more so in that he stated he
would make the “cohabitation” as com-
fortable and equitable as possible as
giving the best hope of avoiding chronic
inflationary pressure.
Not only is investment rising fairly
rapidly now, but reserve spending
power, liquidity and borrowing potential
in the system are exceptionally high.
Without emergency circumstances, it
might be more difficult than Professor
Downing thinks to get the required cut
in consumption and reallocate resources
without the emergence of inflation.
“CROESUS”
Economics of National Service
The manpower problem facing Australia
npAKiNG a realistic view of the need to
increase Australia’s defence effort,
several speakers at last week’s Summer
School of the Australian Institute of
Political Science supported the idea of
introducing some form of national ser-
vice to meet the additional manpower
requirements.
The increased manpower requirements
would, of course, not be entirely for ser-
vice personnel, but would also be spread
widely over industry. Indeed, in his
paper on the cost of defence, Professor
R. I. Downing considered the whole
field of economic development coupled
with education and foreign aid to come
within the compass of the defence effort.
On the latter view the manpower
problem in defence is no less than the
overall manpower problem facing this
country with its two main facets: a
shortage of skilled labor and the emerging
bulge in the teenage population arising
from the abnormally high early post-war
birth rate.
National service would certainly pro-
vide no solution to the former bottle-
neck, but it would seem to piovide the
answer to the problem of teenage labor
absorption and do much else that would
be useful to the economy besides. More-
over, if implemented in the setting of a
more rational approach to education and
the allocation of finance to that activity,
it is conceivable that great social benefits
could follow.
Indeed, it was suggested at the School
that the whole question of teenage edu-
cation and employment needs rethinking
in terms of the country’s economic,
social and defence needs. One speaker
put up the idea that as a basis for the
introduction of national service the
school leaving'age should be raised to
a uniform level of 16 years in all States.
(Considering recent adoption of uniform
legislation in other matters, such as
company law, this should not be too
difficult to implement.)
He suggested that on reaching the age
of 16 all children should be given the
option of embarking on a two-year
period of national service forthwith.
This, he said, would provide an immedi-
ate bridge for all school-leavers into
purposeful activity, and would do away
with the present hiatus of idleness, par-
ticularly for girls, between children
leaving school and finding jobs. (Such a
hiatus is very pronounced this year and
may get much worse in the next few
years as the number of school-leavers
rises substantially.)
For those who wished to continue at
school or enter civil employment, national
service regulations would provide that
the two years’ service could be done be-
tween the ages of 16 and 21.
While admitting frankly that the main
object of introducing a period of national
service along these lines would be to
find the necessary additional numbers
of service personnel which other speak-
ers at the conference deemed to be es-
sential to lift our defence effort, the
author of this plan was looking to the
ultimate social and economic benefits
which could ensue from it.
To achieve such objects it would be
necessary during national service not
only to undergo an intense period of
military training in climates where our
future battles are most likely to be
fought but also to continue education
for civilian life, including, of course,
technical education for those seeking
their future in industry.
The provision of facilities for this
would not be difficult on the basis of
extending those at present used for tech-
nical, secondary and university education.
Equally, national service personnel
could spend part of their time supple-
menting the work force in seasonal oc-
cupations, developing the north, supple-
menting our present inadequate police
forces and generally acting as a mobile
reserve labor force.
One cannot think of anything more
likely to galvanise the spirit of the youth
of this country towards the realisation
of a great national destiny.
An economist can make it sound so
easy to finance additional costs of de-
fence, say by increasing taxation, by the
allocation of more of the GNP to defence
and even by making cash payments to
other countries in lieu of providing
directly for our own defence. However,
one must not neglect the essential fact
that in the last resort the successful de-
fence of Australia could well depend on
trained manpower, if not to fight an
enemy within our gates, then at any rate
to the near north in steamy tropical
climates.
One of the biggest costs of defence —-
and it is one we have not squarely
faced up to —is to train Australians
for this purpose. This, maybe, is as
much a human as an economic cost, but
just as we could squeeze social gains
from any human sacrifices involved in a
two-year period of national service, so
we could well reap economic offsets to
the high cost of this in budgetary terms.


HOOKER
FINANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Issue of
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
«
PER ANNUM
5 or 10 YRS.
LONG TERM
8%, 5 or 10 years
7% 4 years
6V 2 % .... 3 years
6% 2 years
Interest payable quarterly.
Trustees for the Debenture Holders:
BURNS PHILP TRUST COMPANY LIMITED
HOW TO INVEST
Applications for Debenture Stock will proceed only on one
of the forms of application referred to In and attached to
a printed copy of the Prospectus. The full Prospectus and
forms of application may be obtained from:
• Principal Office of Commonwealth Trading Bank of
Australia;
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange;
• The Underwriting Brokers: Ralph W. King & Yuill
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange), 20
O’Connell Street, Sydney, or at any of their branches.
• Any office of L. J. Hooker Limited;
• or direct from Hooker Finance Company Limited
Hooker House, Angel Place, Sydney, and interstate
offices. ,
OIL CORNER
Patience and Persistence
Union-Kern-AOG group main-
tains a fast rate of drilling but is
having no luck in uncovering another
field near Moonie. The drilling pro-
gramme at the moment is fairly close
to the Moonie field and perhaps the
operating company can get a bit closer
to that elusive “strike”.
Mundagai, drilled during January, was
10 miles south-east of the Moonie field
and reached its target depth last week-
end. Dockerill, drilling seven miles south
of Moonie, is part of the drilling pattern
which aims to discover another field
near Moonie. Because these wells are
near Moonie, some people believe they
are on the same structure. They are not.
It is an axiom in oil exploration to
look for another field close to the
original strike. The holes are being sunk
very quickly with the recently installed
mobile Hopper rig.
An interesting well is the Boggo
Creek No. 1 (about 100 miles SSE of
Richmond) which is drilling in the same
geological environment as Richmond
(where the Associated group discovered
oil and gas). This Boggo Creek well is
about 70 miles west of Moonie on a
large structure comprising a number of
smaller structures which are inter-related.
Boggo is about seven miles north of
Wunger which, last October, recovered
oil at the rate of 10 barrels a day.
The immediate drilling targets- of the
Union-Kern-AOG group at the moment
therefore are within a 50-mile radius
of Moonie, aimed at discovering another
new commercial field. An additional
programme is to explore the western
limits of the concession near Boggo
Creek.
Information from this exploration pro-
gramme must add a great deal of know-
ledge to that already accumulated and
painstakingly pieced together by the
Union Oil experts here and in America.
It appears to be a slow process to the
impatient oil speculator, but, after
talking to the experts at Union-Kern-
AOG, there is no doubt that the pro-
gramme is efficient. And an air of quiet
and patient confidence still exists.
Korman Rides
Again
TI/Ir Stanley Korman has climbed on
his soap-box again. In a letter to
the chairman of the Melbourne ’Change
a fortnight ago he “noted with concern”
that Factors’ (the company he chairs) de-
bentures and unsecured notes were sell-
ing below the figure which holders would
receive by April 30.
At this date the notes would be worth
£ll4 13s. 4d., and the four debenture
issues anything from £llO 10s. to
£ll4 3s. 4d. Investors and holders
continued to be unimpressed by his words
no trading was done in the debentures,
but the notes displayed more sympathy
by moving from the previous sale price
of £lOl ss. to £lO6. However, only
1400 were traded.
Investors have been rather sceptical of
Mr Korman after the rough time Factors
shareholders have had. The shares are
currently around Is. 6d. although the
directors are of the opinion that the
asset backing is 2s. 6d. As some of their
previous “opinions” were the cause of
the current difficulties and near winding-
up, it is a small wonder the scrip is below
this level.
This scepticism is also behind the lack
of trading and the low price for the
fixed-interest issues. Despite numerous
appeals against selling below “full value”
they have lagged along behind the worth
indicated by Mr Korman. Wounds may
heal, but they leave scars which are very
hard to forget.
Automobile Air Condition erg
/Overseas Marketing Services, of
” Glendale, California, is interested in
exporting a range of “Novi” automobile
air conditioners to Australia.
The firm states that it has available
suitable installation sets for most makes
and models of American cars, as well
as for Holdens, Jaguars, Renaults, Mer-
cedes and Hillmans. It further states
that the air conditioners are particularly
suitable for small, compact cars since
they draw only about 1 / 6th of the power
from the car’s engine.
Descriptive literature and price lists
are available at the US Consulate-
General.


ASSETS
(NOW EXCEEDING £200,000,000)
PROVIDE PROTECTION FOR LIVES
AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FOR
PROPERTY OWNERS AND INDUSTRY!
J 1 ■ »
-OPT
The 87th Annual Report of the T. & G. Mutual Life Society reveals
excellent results for the Society’s policyholders.
INCREASED BONUSES
The Report shows a surplus of £8,143,585 which will provide for increases in
the Bonus Scales in the Life Departments.
NEW BUSINESS
A year of record success.
The New Business Sums
Assured written in the Life
Departments amounted to
£77,368,087, the highest
total in the history of the
Society.
SERVICE
The Society places the great-
est importance on rendering
the utmost service to its
members. During the year
£14,554,878 was paid to
policyholders, making a total
of £103,625,151 for the last
10 years.
1963
ANOTHER
RECORD
(EAR
PUBLIC FAITH
The Assurances in Force are
now more than £628,000,000
indisputable proof of pub-
lic faith in the integrity of the
Society.
ASSISTANCE TO
INDUSTRY
During the year many indus-
trial and commercial organisa-
tions took advantage of the
attractive benefits and condi-
tions available under T. & G.
Staff Superannuation and
Group Assurance schemes to
place their schemes with the
Society.
zACutualJtfe Society
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria, 1876)


CONFIRM
through
PICKERINGS
(Established London, 1830)
We invite importers and Manu-
facturers to use the leading Con-
firming House facilities available
through overseas correspondents.
★ Extended import Credit Facilities
at reasonable charges.
'k Efficient and tenacious Order
Processing and follow-up.
Telephone 27 7321 or write:
ALEXANDER PICKERING
& Co. Pty. Ltd.
(wholly Australian owned)
Box 3456, G.P.0., Sydney
Add ress: 60 Clarence St., Sydney
INVESTMENT SECTION
Cement Merger Overdue
More efficiency at less cost
proposed merger between Aus-
tralian Cement and Kandos Cement
is the overdue evolution of a working
partnership which has operated between
the two since 1929. In that year they
created Australian Portland Cement Pty
Ltd, which took over Australian
Cement’s works at Fyansford. Geelong
(Vic.), and Kandos’ works at Kandos
(NSW).
The two companies have each since
then held approximately a 50 p.c.
interest in the subsidiary (since turned
public). Their percentage holdings have
varied marginally (usually in favor of
Australian) every now and then because
of new capital raisings, etc.
The purpose of the 1929 moves was
to combat competition. A full merger
was not made because directors wanted
to maintain the two as separate entities.
The reasons for not uniting have always
been rather clouded, but it is apparent
that difficulties in reaching an agree-
ment satisfactory to both parties have
been the main trouble.
These difficulties are now at a
minimum because their capital structures
are at present very similar.
Australian’s paid capital at £2,274,638
is only £28,430 higher than that of
Kandos. Moreover, assets backing is so
close that Kandos shareholders will
receive a mere fivepence a share to
compensate for the difference.
The overall result of the merger
(which involves an issue of five shares
in the merger company for every four
held in either of the old ones or, in
other words, a one-for-four bonus
issue) will give Australian shareholders
11,373,190 units and Kandos 11,231,040
plus £187,475 cash for the assets backing
difference.
By far the biggest and most immediate
advantage of consolidation will be the
increased efficiency in administration.
Eight directors will sit on the board,
four from each company. The two old
boards each had about six directors and
administration must have been badly
hindered by the fact that they sat in
two different States.
Increased efficiency should mean de-
creased costs and possibly increased
profits.
The merged company’s head office
will be neutrally situated at Canberra,
but annual meetings will be held alter-
nately at Melbourne and Sydney just to
keep both groups of shareholders happy.
In all probability there will be
numerous other benefits in the long run.
Directors are expected to make these
known as the merger activities move
into action.
Brambles Without Thorn 3
HThe markets gave a quick welcome to
A Brambles Industries’ cheerful interim
report, showing no hesitation in pushing
the ss. shares from 19s. sd. to 20s. 9d.
By the time tax and depreciation de-
tails arrive with the dividend cheques,
investors might be willing to bring prices
closer to 1962’s top at 225. 3d. Last
year saw a best of 205., a notable
advance from the 1962 low of 11s. 7d.
Through all the vicissitudes of re-
organisation and shedding too-confidently
acquired subsidiaries, the dividend rate
has been unhesitatingly held at 20 p.c.
Though the December half-year’s profit
leapt by 56 p.c. to £361,334, equal to
a 30.1 p.c. annual earning rate,, the divi-
dend did not change.
With a record 1963-64 profit appar-
ently in sight, directors must look upon
the recovery process as complete. Last
year’s group accounts disclosed a gener-
ally satisfactory financial state, so share-
holders may soon start anticipating.
Far from continuing to bemoan the
“squeeze”, the chairman, Mr R. A.
Dickson, told last October’s annual meet-
ing about lasting economies and realistic
adjustments to stock. The level of pro-
fitability in 1962-63 could have shown
more improvement had not “excessive
wet weather” hindered industrial con-
tracting and equipment hiring operations.
The coming fuller statement should
point to smooth progress, which is also
evident among other transport com-
panies.
Weston Goes South and West
Weston Foods Ltd gave fair
warning last June that it would ex-
pand and diversify when opportunities
arose. So the announcement that it was
moving into SA and WA by takeover of
W. Thomas Industries Pty Ltd, a SA
flour miller, was no great surprise.
The SA proprietary company gained
control (in the face of board opposition)
of W. Thomas and Co. (WA) Ltd, at the
tail end of last year. The WA company
had a paid capital of £450,000, a group
profit of £115,166 in 1962. and total
assets of £2.8 million, so the takeover
ARC Industries Ltd.
jQuE to a mis-reading of the pub-
lished accounts of ARC
Industries in our issue of January
25, an error occurred in the earn-
ings figure for 1963. Earnings for
1963 should have read 471 and
not 412. This means that “Surplus”
should have read 208 and not 149.
This affects the “Earnings per
share (shillings)’' line, which should
read:
1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
0.72 0.96 0.75 0.80 0.67
The earnings yield for 1963
should be 6.1 p.c. and not 5.3 p.c.
This means that the last sentence
in the article regrettably creates
an incorrect impression of the
company’s position.
The price/ earnings ratio at 17.4
based on the last sale of 11s. 9d.
is not unreasonable for a sound
building materials company, par-
ticularly as there is every prospect
of an increase in per share earn-
ings during the current year. A
recovery to the 1961/62 levels
would mean that the current prices
would be attractive since this
would indicate a price/ earnings
ratio, on the basis of projected
earnings, of less than 15.


:
* ■ ' 1. 1
i
■
*
WEiCS
B? ; -. i
WMMt
■
■:■■?:..
ft I$ ■
Live National Television is here!
News, sport, or variety—Melbourne and Sydney can now see the
same image simultaneously (well, almost the time lag is only
5 milli-seconds).
An unduplicated audience of almost two million will view a 7-day-
a-week national news service as well as variety. Melbourne and
Sydney will see simultaneous presentation of programmes such as
"Sound of Music”, "Noel Ferrier’s Show”, “Take The Hint”, "Say
When” and "Concentration”. Major sporting events and documentary
specials are also scheduled for the co-axial link.
GTV9 AND TCN9 PIONEER AUSTRALIA’S FIRST
INTERSTATE CO-AXIAL CABLE LINK


LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
LANCE GRAHAM
Member ot the Sydney Stock Exchange
56 HUNTER STREET
SYDNEY
Telephone: 28-5721
Telegrams: Lagram, Sydney
of its new parent is no mean swallow
for Weston.
George Weston, most famous for its
biscuits, has been moving strongly into
Australian bakeries and wheat by-
products in the last two years.
The WA subsidiary of its latest take-
over victim brings under Weston control
at least four of the biggest bakeries in
WA, milling and stock feed interests, and
a maker of furniture, mattresses and
steel products.
George Weston is UK controlled and
not listed on any Australian Exchange.
Improvements in tlie Red
T>urnie Board and Timber, the hard-
board producing subsidiary of Asso-
ciated Pulp and Paper Mills, should see
increased sales through an agreement
with Esanda to provide credit for im-
provements to houses. Esanda is a hire-
purchase and finance subsidiary of the
ES&A Bank.
The scheme will prove valuable if
APPM is to hold and increase its share
of the competitive Australian hardboard
industry, reviewed in The Bulletin a
fortnight ago. Unsecured term credit
will be available to home owners at lower
charges than usually borne if additions
or renovations must be financed by bor-
rowing. Loans will be available through
building materials merchants who parti-
cipate in the “Burnie Board Home Im-
provement Service”.
The degree of success the scheme will
achieve is hard to estimate, but, con-
sidering the current general prosperity,
there must be a number of home owners
who are thinking of renovating or ex-
tending their houses but do not have the
finance to do so. Investors must also
remember that the penny has two sides
■— Esanda will score bigger returns if
the idea is successful.
DHA and NHS
Drug Houses of Australia Ltd's fol-
lowers have not yet flinched at the
threat of further proposed price reduc-
tions in National Health Service drugs.
The shares held firm round the 565.
mark. Although they have recovered
somewhat from the 1963 low of 535. 6d.,
this is a long retreat from 785., the peak
for last year.
The cryptic interim statement of satis-
factory trading and sales in line with
budget for the December half-year is
not particularly heartening, but as the
NHS drugs are handled by Cyanamid
DHA Pty Ltd, in which DHA holds
only a 20 p.c. interest, and this repre-
sents a very minor part of group funds,
shareholders should not discard their
holdings too readily at current price
levels.
Olims Develops
Oales and profit trends in the six months
to December last have encouraged
directors of Olims Consolidated Ltd to
lift the dividend rate from 121 to 15 p.c.
At the last annual meeting they re-
ported that such an increase was being
considered.
This manufacturer of photographic
and office equipment emerged as a pub-
lic company in 1962, to consolidate the
activities of various proprietary com-
panies, including Olims Chemicals Pty
Ltd which had been a member of the
Amalgamated Chemicals group It has
shown an insatiable appetite for small
companies in similar lines of business.
Only last month Olims reported issu-
ing 200,000 ss. ordinary shares at sub-
stantial premiums as part consideration
for Seacast Products Pty Ltd and its sub-
sidiary and associated companies, Duty
Free Stores and Overseas Travellers’
Stores Pty Ltd.
Its most spectacular move to date was
the formation of a joint venture company
with Hayakawa Electric Co. Ltd of
Japan to make “Sharp” electronic pro-
ducts here.
The growth aspects of Olims stock
are well recognised, for the ss. shares
sell for over four times par. A one-for-
four bonus was handed out last March.
Total issued capital of £543,000 in-
cludes £143,875 in deferred shares
which do not rank for dividend until
January 1, 1966, but qualify for any
cash or bonus issues of ordinary shares.
LNC in Top Gear
T NC’s halving of capital by repayment
" of 2s. 6d. per ss. share has not
been accompanied by any loss of income.
Trading profits for the December,
1963, half-year were substantially in
excess of the corresponding period in
1962.
Another franchise this time for
Rambler vehicles in NSW means new
profit potential for the rest of the year.
The company, once known as Larke
Neave and Carter, moved into the big
time after taking on Volkswagen dis-
tributorship in NSW in 1954. The one-
eighth interest in the manufacture of
VWs in Australia, sold in 1961 for a
profit of £421,000, provided the funds
for the capital return.
The 2s. 6d. shares were immediately
consolidated to ss. shares, and called
ss. paid consolidated ex-return of capital
on November 28, 1963.
An interim of 71 p.c., compared with
last year’s 5 p.c. interim and 71 p.c. final,
indicates the full year’s payout Could be
in the region of 20 p.c., though income
yield for the present must be calculated
on a 151 p.c. annual basis. At this rate
a purchase at 13s. 3d. returns 5.9 p.c.,
with scope for improvement
There could be establishment costs
connected with the Rover franchise, but
altogether the future looks most pro-
mising.
Virtually at Standstill
HThe extreme liquidity in the economy
-*■ has so far had nc beneficial effect
on the profit of Associated Securities Ltd.
Although hire purchase receivables
rose some £5 million, or 22 p.c. in the
six months to December 31, 1963, com-
pared with its 1962 counterpart, profit
was virtually at a standstill.
Excluding £34,886 capital profit, the
trading surplus was £261,485 compared
with £259,871 in 1962.
Presumably the company has had to
let its money out at cheaper rates, but
the lower costs of its own recent borrow-
ings have not yet had full effect.
The premium issue, which collected
£1.4 million on September 30, has not
yet had an impact on earnings, directors
said in their interim report, although
those shares rank for half the interim
dividend.
The 16 p.c. rate paid since 1961 looks
set for another year, with the interim
declaration of 8 p.c.
Philip Morris Progress
T>erhaps the renewed cancer scare for
cigarette smokers may tend to
smother the growth exhibited by Philip
Morris (Aust.) Ltd in the first half of its
current year, but it would very much
surprise if the 1963-64 results were not
materially greater than last year’s.
Sales of the main brands, Philip Mor-
ris, Marlbro and Alpine, were all grow-
ing, as were exports, directors said in
their interim report.
The December six months saw a pro-
fit increase of 36 p.c., and an increase
in the earning rate for that six months
from 22.6 p.c. in 1962 to 30.8 p.c. in
1963.
On the new 10 p.c. dividend basis, the
20s. shares at up to 38s. 6d. look reason-
able buying on present information, but
caution should be exercised beyond this
point because of the anti-smoking pub-
licity from medical quarters.


What the MLC Offers Keen Investors
H. G. Palmer’s boost to earning rate
By ROGER RANDERSON
Discerning investors are buying in
shares of The Mutual Life And
Citizens’ Assurance Company
Limited while they are still freely avail-
able, because this holding company is in
command of one of the top five of Aus-
tralia’s Life Offices, and also owns
H. G. Palmer, this country’s largest and
most profitable organisation retailing
electrical appliances.
The rapid progress of The Mutual
Life And Citizens’ Assurance Company
Limited, and the benefits provided for
holders of its unlisted shares, were made
generally known by recent publicity
concerning the Power bequest to the
University of Sydney.
Large blocks of shares are held off
the market by the Palmer family, trustees
for the Power bequest to the University
and derived trustees for many estates
from the syndicate that founded the Life
Office 77 years ago.
Although Mr H. G. Palmer has the
unrestricted right to sell for five years
a quarter of the shares he received in
the 4-for-25 exchange—and more with
the permission of the MLC directors—it
seems unlikely that he would do so.
While the take-over brought immedi-
ate capital gain to H. G. Palmer’s share-
holders, it has temporarily reduced their
income from dividends. Many of them
cannot afford to wait for further in-
creases in the MLC dividend. This
probably accounts for much of the sell-
ing which causes MLC £1 shares still
to be available at about £6 16s. com-
pared with last year’s peak price of
£7 155., and the equivalent of £8 when
unlisted shares of the Life Office stood
at £24 prior to sale to the holding
company.
Mr Palmer, however, can easily afford
to wait for almost certain improvement
in the income from his investment,
which will inevitably bring further
capital appreciation as the years roll by.
T'he day will return, I feel sure,
when most MLC shares are again
“well held”, because they have been
locked away as an extremely safe growth
investment. Much of the present buying
of the shares comes from investors who
desire to put away something for their
children and grand-children, and are
determined not to “miss the bus”.
Dividends from the Life Office rose in
unbroken succession from 20.83 p.c. in
1952 to 38.75 p.c. in 1961 on a station-
ary capital of £1 million. Following this,
shareholders received, in effect, a two-
for-one bonus issue by accepting 3
million ordinary £1 shares in the MLC
in exchange for their former holdings.
The question now is whether the hold-
ing company can show a similar rapid
rate of progress. Already there are in-
dications that this may be possible.
The MLC, after paying 13] p.c. in its
first year, recently distributed an interim
amount increased from Is. 4d. to Is. 6d.
a £1 share. This points towards a rise in
the dividend to 15 p.c. for the 1963-64
year, which will end on April 30.
The company increased its issued
capital to £3,615,107 after the exchange
of MLC £1 shares for 3,976,328 ordinary
ss. shares in H. G. Palmer (Consolidated)
Limited, less the number previously held
and still retained by its Life Office,
fractions and directors’ qualifying shares.
A 15 p.c. dividend for the year ending
April 30 will therefore require £542,266,
which is £142,266 more than was paid
out last year to provide 13]- p.c.
This should be easily met, because
the H. G. Palmer subsidiary has already
paid the MLC a dividend amounting to
£124,260 in respect of its operations for
the year ended last June 30.
The H. G. Palmer dividend is at the
rate of 12£ p.c. for the fifth year in
succession, and it is met from a record
net profit of £441,040, which represents
an earning rate of 36 p.c. on ordinary
capital after deducting the £83,000
preference charge.
The Life Office subsidiary needs to
pay into the holding company only
£18,006 more than last year, at
£418,006, to enable the 15 p.c. dividend
to be paid to shareholders.
The company’s general manager, Mr
A. F. Deer, last month reported improved
results from the Life Office subsidiary,
so that this raises no problem. Mr Deer
stated that new assurances had increased
by 9 p.c. to £128,100,000 in the
calendar year 1963, while premiums
received on new policies had increased
by £233,000 to £4,208,000.
Moreover, the rapidly expanding
MLC Fire And General Insurance Com-
pany Pty Ltd, which is a subsidiary of
the Life Office (and thus a sub-subsidiary
of the MLC) has increased the dividend
to its parent by £5,000 to £30,000 in
respect of earnings in the year ended
last June 30.
The piecing together of these separ-
ately released items of information
points to favorable results to be shown
by the annual report for 1963-64, which
will be presented in May.
By the way, holders of the shares since
before the formation of the holding com-
pany in 1962 will have seen their divi-
dend payments rise in two steps from
38.75 to 45 p.c. This is a fair indication
that the previous rapid rate of progress
is still continuing.
Naturally, this year's earnings from
the Life Office as well as from the H. G.
Palmer subsidiary will be well in excess
of what the MLC receives from them as
dividends.
One would expect the MLC to earn
not less than £850,000 in 1963-64, and
earnings could possibly be as high as
£900.000, depending on apportionment
of Life Office surpluses between policy-
holders and shareholders.
Thus an earning rate of up to 25 p.c.
on ordinary capital might be shown. It
is interesting to note that this would flow
from a return of about 18 p.c. on funds
invested in the Life Office subsidiary,
considerably sweetened by a return of
no less than 56 p.c. on funds invested
in the H. G. Palmer subsidiary.
"Evidently, the directors’ policy of try-
ing to satisfy shareholders at the
same time as they increase the capacity
of the Life Office to pay larger bonuses
to policy-holders is already beginning to
show satisfactory results.
There is no foreseeable future limit
to the aggregate volume of life assur-
ance business in Australia, especially if
the more sensible official policy concern-
ing interest rates which has gradually
been reinstated since 1952 continues,
together with increased income-tax con-
cessions designed to encourage this form
of saving.
Scope for increased business is partly
indicated by the fact that on the average
the income-earning population pays at
present only about £SO a year in
premiums, although it could avail itself
of tax concessions on premiums up to
£4OO a head a year. It will be further
encouraged by the present rapid rate of
family formation, and perhaps even by
memory of losses on less secure invest-
ments in recent years.
But competition to hold a share of
the available business is fierce and in-
creasing. It is not as easy for the MLC
as the Mutual (or co-operative) Life
Offices to provide attractive bonuses.
General insurance underwriters, too,
have been rapidly extending their
activities into the life and endowment
assurance fields.
The necessity to maintain a com-


petitive bonus policy had compelled
MLC directors to reduce the share-
holders’ proportion of Life Office
surpluses rather drastically between 1946
and 1959, although the amount of profits
allotted to shareholders steadily rose
because business increased rapidly
during the period.
An important limit has been placed
on the extent to which the shareholders’
proportion of Life Office surpluses can
be reduced in the future, and this
enhances the investment prospects of the
shares, especially if business continues
to increase as it is doing.
The provision is contained in No. 147
of the Articles of Association of the
MLC Limited. It applies while the
MLC holds not less than three-quarters
of the shares in the Life Office and
the Articles also require the prior
approval of shareholders before this
interest in the Life Office can be
reduced.
The protection of policy-holders is the
first concern of the directors as well as
the trustees, but Article 147 provides
that so far as they can, consistently with
this duty to policy-holders, directors will
see that not less than 21 p.c. of the
declared profits of each of the ordinary
and industrial branches goes to share-
holders. A special resolution of the
shareholders is necessary if this
minimum 21 p.c. proportion is to be
reduced.
Over a period (which, with increasing
business, should involve no reduction in
profits for shareholders), the present 3
p.c. of surplus from the ordinary branch
and 4 p.c. of surplus from the industrial
branch may be reduced to the new 21
p.c. minimum. All the profits of the
general branch, which in 1962 amounted
to £232,380, belong to shareholders.
However, profits of the general branch
may increase at a slower rate in the
future, largely because of the transfer
of business to the fire and general in-
surance sub-subsidiary.
/Combined annual surpluses of the Life
Office in its ordinary and industrial
branches have grown since 1954 at a
compound annual rate of almost 16 p.c.
If such a rate can continue, and share-
holders receive the minumum proportion
of sixpence in the £1 of the ordinary
branch surplus from 1964 and sixpence
in the £1 from the industrial branch
from 1967, the contribution of the Life
Office to profits for shareholders could
rise from last year’s £541,184 to well
over £600,000 b.y 1968. Even more
important, the H. G. Palmer subsidiary
could save so much from a reduction in
interest rates on its immense borrowings
now that it is under the MLC shield
that it is not unreasonable to expert that
its net profit in the next few years may
rise to £636,000 or more.
This would give the MLC a return
of 100 p.c. a year from its investment in
the H. G. Palmer subsidiary, and it
would be equivalent to about 17£ p.c.
on the company’s present capital.
An obviously well-informed broker’s
circular last year gave projections of
what the future earnings of the MLC
may be in each year up to 1968. This
source, on quite conservative assump-
tions, showed that the earning rate could
rise each year to between 31.5 and 34.4
p.c. by 1968. A large proportion of
these earnings should be available for
dividend payments.
This allows nothing for additional
earnings the company might secure by
issuing further shares to acquire profit-
able undertakings, as it has done with
H. G. Palmer. On the initiative of a
group of shareholders a few years ago,
restrictions were placed on the extent to
which directors may use unissued capital
now amounting to £1,363,788 for this
purpose.
In terms of the Articles of Associa-
tion, only 363,788 new shares may be
allotted at the directors’ discretion, but,
in view of the substantial premium in
the market price of MLC shares, this
would permit the acquisition of a sub-
stantial business.
Regarding the remaining £1 million
of unissued capital, the first offer of
such shares must be made to share-
holders.
While rights from a cash issue would
offer spice for shareholders, it seems that
in the long run they would be likely to
gain far more if directors had more free-
dom to buy businesses by issuing shares.
It will be interesting, therefore, to see if
any move is made by the directors to
have these provisions relaxed. No doubt
the continued success of the H. G.
Palmer enterprise has a large bearing
on the reception shareholders would now
give to such a proposal to untie the
hands of their directors.
The Life Office subsidiary, faced with
the problem of switching from its
relatively large and uneconomical in-
dustrial into collector assurance, has
this year lagged behind the AMP Society
in the increase in new business, which
is the principal source from which in-
come-earning assets are acquired.
However, the Life Office has in recent
years steadily stepped up its effective
rate of interest on funds to £5 9s. p.c.
after taxation, whilg at the same time it
has steadily brought down expenses to
10.85 p.c. of total income. These aspects
of skilful management alone ensure what
has been called an “inbuilt growth rate”,
so that investors should pay particular
attention to them.
A review of the MLC would not be
complete without some mention of the
controversy that still surrounds the
acquisition of H. G. Palmer.
Many companies have got into dif-
ficulties by gearing borrowings to their
capital in much smaller ratio than H. G.
Palmer has done. Apart from having
the Life Office as a back-stop during
a period of phenomenal growth, however,
superb management and financial con-
trol, together with the retention of the
major part of earnings, helped to
preserve the company’s stability even
during the difficult period following
November, 1960.
H. G. Palmer’s profitability, stability
and growth should all be assisted by
the reduction in borrowing expenses
which is now well under way, although
steady reduction in its reliance on
borrowings still seems to be desirable.
Tt is a good thing for the company that
A Mr H. G. Palmer has been retained
as managing director for five years, and
that Dr A. H. Pollard, MLC Deputy
General Manager, has been given a seat
on the board of directors.
These men already have able lieuten-
ants, including Sir Norman Nock and
Mr N. H. Palmer. The necessity to
build a career service of able personnel,
and eventually to find another leader
with imagination and drive can scarcely
have escaped them.
It is only in this respect, I feel, that
lingering doubts about the wisdom of
MLC’s investment in a fluctuating
trading area might be justified.
I cannot feel that the Life Office was
following approved canons of secure
investment by holding 117,199 ordinary
shares, 176,900 preference shares, and
£190,000 of debenture stock in H. G.
Palmer, while standing ready to provide
£1 million in cash on the security of
two real property mortgages. For-
tunately, H. G. Palmer avoided the
necessity to avail itself of the last-
mentioned facility.
My earlier misgivings, however, have
been removed. The funds of the MLC
as a holding company are kept entirely
distinct from assets of the Assurance
Fund and may reasonably be invested
at larger risk for greater gain.
It is difficult to know what yield to
accept in pricing shares of the MLC.
At the present price of about £6 165.,
a dividend yield of about 2 p.c. is avail-
able from a 15 p.c. dividend, which
corresponds to the basis of valuation for
several other “blue chips” offering the
prospect of early benefits.
Earnings yield, however, may be more
than 3.6 p.c.
The shares are bound to reach much
higher prices in the future, as investors
desiring capital appreciation more than
early income are attracted by a high
degree of security, certain growth far
into the future, and reasonably early
prospects of further dividend increases
or bonus issues.


SECURITY ANALYSIS
Growth in an Expanding Industry
Electrical Equipment shares seem cheap
After fluctuating between 17s. and
** 18s. for a period of 12 months —•
that is for nearly the whole of 1963—the
ordinary shares of Electrical Equipment
of Australia have moved up to 19s. 3d.
during the 1964 trading. Even so, the
price has not reacted to the extent that
the price of, say, AWA’s shares, has
reacted over this period. AWA’s shares
have risen nearly 44 p.c. since January
1963 as against Electrical Equipment’s
p.c.
Certainly, AWA’s dividend rate has
been increased from 14 p.c. to 16 p.c.
but, in effect, this has only re-instated
the 1959-60 rate. Electrical Equipment
raised the dividend rate from 11 p.c. to
12 p.c. having paid 10 p.c. in the 1959-60
year. The result is that the immediate
dividend yield at present prices is 2.9 p.c.
for AWA and 3.1 p.c. for Electric Equip-
ment.
It is worth referring back to the chair-
man's address of October 28, 1959, on
the matters relating to dividends. In this
address the directors’ dividend policy
was stated as follows:-
“(a) Appropriation for Dividend:
During the past ten years we have
appropriated for dividends roughly
50 p.c. of the profits after company
taxation. Our policy has been to so
arrange it that any alteration in divid-
ends has increased the amount dis-
tributed.
(b) Retained Profits:
The balance of the profit has been
considered firstly as a buffer against
any reduction of the amount appro-
priated for dividends. Undistributed
profits have been ploughed back into
the business to assist in consolidation
and expansion.”
Tt is indeed interesting to look at the re-
suits of this policy over the ten-year
period from 1949-50 to 1958-59 inclusive
and the subsequent years up to 1962-63.
The dividend per share, adjusting only
for the share split from 20s. units to ss.
units and the 2-for-5 bonus issue, both
of which occurred in the 1959 calendar
year, has been as follows:-
Dividend Dividend Dividend
per share per share per share
Year (Shillings) Year (Shillings) Year (Shillings)
1949/50 0.400 1954/55 0.500 1959/60 0.700
1950/51 0.400 1955/56 0.500 1960/61 0.735
1951/52 0.500 1956/57 0.500 1961/62 0.770
1952/53 0.500 1957/58 0.625 1962/63 0.840
1953/54 0.500 1958/59 0.625
There can be no doubt that the divi-
dend distribution has never been varied
downwards and even over the difficult
period of 1961’and 1962 the distribution
has been increased. This increase has
been averaging 6.1 p.c. compound over
the last five years and would certainly
constitute very high performance in rela-
tion to other companies generally.
The policy of distributing “roughly
50 p.c. of the profits” has been continued,
although the percentage was nearer to
60 p.c. than 50 p.c. in the 1960-61 year.
While earnings did not increase as divi-
dends have done during the last five
years, it is quite an achievement to have
raised the adjusted earnings per share
in 1962-63 to 5 p.c. above the 1959-60
level. But over the five year period ear-
nings per share have increased by over
47 p.c. and the average annual compound
rate has been about 4i p.c.
Over the last ten years, the average
annual rate of increase in earnings per
share has been about 14 p.c. compound.
This would be a high rate of growth
under any circumstances, but it is quite
remarkable when it is considered that
it has been achieved without any gearing
of the shareholders’ funds.
This points up another aspect of the
directors’ policy, namely, “Our consistent
policy has been for major capital in-
creases to be raised by issuing ordinary
shares to our shareholders at par.”
Although bank overdraft appears at
nearly £150,000 in the balance sheet
dated June 30, 1963, it seems fairly
clear from a review of the last ten years
that no permanent reliance has been
placed on this type of finance because
bank overdraft was “nil” in five years
during the period.
Having regard to the size of the com-
pany in 1954, some considerable expan-
sion has been achieved. Net working
capital plus fixed assets and investment
have more than trebled over this period.
This increase has been financed as to
nearly 59 p.c. by retained income (i.e.,
depreciation provisions and retained
profits) and to 28 p.c. by new share
issues to existing shareholders.
In other words the shareholders have
financed 87 p.c. of the expansion and yet
the earnings of their investment has con-
tinued to increase.
There can be no doubt that a share-
holding in this company acquired ten
years ago has been a most satisfactory
investment. But what of the future when
it is considered that the price of the
shares ten years ago represented about
ten years’ earnings and today the price
represents about 17 years’ earnings?
Looking at the list of products given
in the last annual report, it would cer-
tainly seem that Electrical Equipment is
operating in an expanding industry even
though competition, both local and over-
seas, is very keen.
Australian Line Materials Pty Ltd
supplies a number of products associated
with electricity power lines, such as pole
line hardware and power connectors. The
expansion of the electricity transmission
system will surely continue for very
many years to come.
Transmission Products Pty Ltd is
mainly engaged in the supply of tele-
phone equipment and there will continue
to be a steady demand for this service.
Perhaps the three subsidiaries which
might be expected to show the most
marked increase in profitability during
1963-64 and thereafter, relative to the
last two years, would be Australian Time
Recording Co. Pty Ltd, G.M.F. Electric
Motors Pty Ltd, and Swiftsure Pty Ltd.
These subsidiaries’ products are closely
related to the home building and durable
consumer goods fields. The trends to-
wards automatic features in items such
as cooking ranges, washing machines
and dish-washers should provide an
expanding market for timing devices.
New home building will increase the
demand for hot water systems which
are now a part of every new home.
EQUIPMENT OF AUSTRALIA
Ltd (the parent company) includes
amongst the products which it supplies
various specialised instruments. Instru-
mentation in industry can also be regard-
ed as a growth situation and no doubt
this company is well situated to partici-
pate in the growth.
Although the shares may seem to be
historically high, there is every reason
to believe that growth rates in the future
will not be very different from the past
and in this event the shares still seem
cheap at 19s. 3d.
Until the interim statement is made
towards the end of next month, one can
only guess at the trends in earnings and
the possibility of a further increase in
dividends, but at this stage priqes of up
to 21s. do not seem unreasonable.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES (£'000)
Year to June 30 .... 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 960 1177 1313 1220 1375
Current liabilities.... 416 527 613 440 615
Net working capital 544 650 700 780 760
Fixed assets 519 523 760 761 880
Investments 1 14 13
Total capital 1063 1173 1461 1555 1653
Represented by:—
Ordinary capital .... 511 719 900 900 900
Reserves 551 454 561 655 753
Depreciation 26 28 32 36 39
Tax provided 82 119 115 132 145
Earnings 135 180 163 191 205
Dividends 58 72 95 99 108
Surplus 77 108 68 92 97
Earnings ber share
(shillings) .... (a) 0.90 1.08 0.90 1.06 1.14
Dividends per share
(shillings) .... (a) 0.39 0.43 0.52 0.55 0.60
Earnings yield %
(b) 6.9 7.6 6.8 6.5 6.5
Dividend yield %
(b) 3.3 3.8 3.9 3.4 3.4
(a) Adjusted for cash and bonus issues.
(b) Based on last sale in month accounts presented.


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-“>7Gl
(4 lines)
P.O. BOX
No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH:
2 Denliam Street Phone 6059
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
The Woes of a Wool Textiler
Tt is mystifying to the average Austra-
lian to hear local woollen manu-
facturers so repeatedly crying for pro-
tection.
Certainly there is considerable snob-
bery, particularly in the women’s fashion
trade, about imported materials, but it
would seem that the local textilers might
look at their own production methods,
the style and price of the goods, and
their own salesmanship.
Many woollen textilers are using the
same machines as they were more than
a decade ago. Yet, according to the
leading cotton textilers, development of
the synthetic textile industry has
produced revolutionary changes in textile
machinery, so much so that in the
interval between the ordering and com-
missioning of new plant it may become
superseded.
One of the Victorian provincial
woollen textile companies which has
found conditions particularly testing is
The Castlemaine Woollen Co. Ltd.
Since the 1957 profit ot £25,338,
profits have fallen away heavily. A loss
of £13,956 was recorded in 1960-61,
and a further loss of £15,131 in 1962-
63, after providing £lO,OOO for possible
losses from doubtful debts and
£18,579 for depreciation.
Preference shareholders received no
dividends this year.
The company claimed that conditions
in the wool textile industry continued
to be very difficult since imposition of
economic restrictions in 1960
Competition from imported cloths and
a fashion trend to knitted rather than
woven fabrics hindered the sale of the
company’s main product, woven woollen
cloths.
Demand for blankets, saddlery cloths
and worsted yarn, however, was at an
improved level.
Much of the £289,514 stocks of
finished goods and work in progress
was made against firm orders for
delivery before June 30, but many
wholesalers refused or were unable to
take delivery as retailers and manu-
facturers would not complete specifi-
cations of their requirements.
Directors spoke of an air of un-
certainty in the woollen piecegoods trade.
Australian retailers, who seem to
crack the whip on the manufacturer,
are anxious to hold their profit margins
and their established selling prices, so
that increases in wool prices tend to
slice into the manufacturer’s margins.
The buoyancy of wool prices—up
5 p.c. on the 1963 closing prices—
suggests there will be no improvement in
Castlemaine's trading results in this
current year.
Directors consider that if air freight
rates could be reduced, a market could
be found in USA for Castiemaine’s
cloths. They emphasise that the cloth
must be air freighted in order to compete
with European mills.
The granting of three weeks annual
leave to employees and cost increases
for other goods and services also put
pressure on the company’s profits.
In the latest year to June 30, bank
overdraft (secured) was extended from
£.272,709 to £302,932. Compare this
with fixed assets of £234,347, and
total shareholders’ funds of £291,994.
There is no evidence of a provision
for fluctuation in the value of stocks,
and any sudden fall in wool values
could reproduce the unfortunate ex-,
perience of 1951-52, when values
slumped after the previous year’s boom.
The 20s. shares on present indications;
do not deserve a higher rating than the
existing price of around 7s. 6d.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 513 625 507 499 556
Less current
liabilities 422 539 435 429 498
Working capital 91 86 72 70 58
Fixed assets 239 243 241 237 234
330 329 313 307 292
Preference capital 60 60 60 60 60
Ordinary capital 120 120 120 120 120
Reserves 150 149 133 127 112
330 329 313 307 292
Depreciation 17 18 18 18 19
Taxation 6 5 —•
Net profit 7 8 —l4 2 —l5
Net profit for ords. 4 5 —l7 —1 —l5
Dividend 6 6 —-
Surplus —2 —1 —l7 —1 —l5
Earning rate 3.4 4.6
Dividend rate 5 5
Div. yield (a) 13.8 8.3
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 21.5 13.0
High price (b) 17/- 16/- 11/6 12/- 107-
Low price (b) 13/6 11/6 9/6 7/9 6/
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
HILLS INDUSTRIES LTD
Vast Growth in 16 Years
ITills Industries Ltd has grown in
16 years from a small partnership
making rotary clothes hoists in South
Australia to a widely diversified Aus-
tialia-wide organisation with branches in
New Zealand and the United Kingdom.
Yet capital growth in that period has
been slow.
Issued capital at the time of the
public placement in 1957 of 600,000 5s
shares at ss. 3d. plus charges was
£750,000 in ordinary shares and
£250,000 in 8 p.c. unsecured notes con-
vertible into ordinary shares at par not
earlier than July 1, 1962, and not later
than June 30, 1968. During the year
to June 30 last, 87,000 of these ss. notes
were converted into shares.
An issue of 83,700 shares to acquire
Natel Service Holdings Ltd in the early
part of 1962 lifted paid up capital at
June 30 last to £792,675.
Profitability during the past five years
has been very consistent, earnings each
year covering the 10 p.c. dividend rate
more than twice.
In the 1962 year despite a bad debt
provision of £34,839, profit was lifted
from £200,830 to £204,648 equal to 26.9
p.c. on capital, while last year despite a
£44,668 write-off of bad debts, profit
showed another small rise to £205,205,
although earning rate on the higher
capital employed edged back to 26 p.c.
From its original clothes hoist business,
the company has expanded and now
makes TV' antennae, tubular furniture, *
toys and galvanised fencing material. It
also operates a television maintenance
service, and galvanising, electroplating,


plastics moulding, steel fabricating and
offset and letterpress printing plants.
Trading conditions continue to be very
competitive, but the company appears to
be holding its share of available business.
The latest accounts reveal it to be in a
sound position as regards liquidity,
although showing the effect of the more
difficult trading conditions. Both stock
and debtors were down on the previous
year’s figures and trade creditors, too.
The company faces the maturity of
£315,967 in unsecured deposits maturing
before June 30 next (£262,124 a year
earlier) but any sudden demand for cash
refunds is covered by £224,467 in short-
term deposits and cash.
The reserve position appears quite
strong, with total shareholders’ funds of
£1,142,362 subject to intangible items of
£70,000 giving an assets backing of
6s. 9d. to each ss. share.
The shares are currently selling around
14s. to show a dividend yield of 3.6
p.c. and an earnings yield of 8.9 p.c.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 1114 1339 1290 1413 1526
Less current
liabilities 767 943 833 1033 1101
Working capital 347 396 457 380 425
Investments 2 3 8 8
Fixed assets 489 574 631 793 896
Intangibles 254 249 256 140 70
1090 1221 1347 1321 1399
Represented by:
Outside
shareholders 4
Capital 750 750 750 771 793
Surplus profits 90 221 347 296 349
Loan funds 250 250 250 250 257
10°0 1221 1347 1321 1399
Depreciation 23 27 39 47 56
Taxation 111 148 119 83 111
Net profit 167 202 201 205 205
Dividend 75 75 75 76 79
Surplus 92 127 126 129 126
Dividend p.c. 10 10 10 10 10
Earnings p.c. 22.3 26.9 26.8 26.9 26.0
Dividend yield (a) 4.2 4.2 4.8 4.3 4 0
High price (b) 13 6 16/6 11/- 12/3 12/6
Low price (b) 7/10J 11/9 8/6 11/3 10/9
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
HERALD AND WEEKLY TIMES LTD
Future Div. Policy Awaited
A one-for-two bonus last November
will scale down future profits of
Melbourne’s Herald and Weekly Times
Ltd.
Four years of dividends at 271 p.c.
paid from earnings approaching 40 p.c.
on capital are apt to draw unfavorable
comment from some people, especially
when the company concerned is in a
fairly monopolistic position.
Aggregate net profit disclosed by the
group rose slightly from £1,444,983 to
£1,487,121 in the last year to September
30, improving earning rate from 37.2 to
37.8 p.c.
The tax provision was enlarged by
£99,000 to £1,112,500, and, related to
profit, indicates that profit disclosed by
the company is conservative by the Tax
Commissioner’s standards, particularly in
recognition of the fact that £617,385
(or 42 p.c.) of the group profit came
from investment income, which is not
taxable to The Herald.
One item to account for this con-
servative profit statement would be the
provision for development and invest-
ment fluctuation, £465,839 for 1962-63,
compared with £306,805 and £197,084
in the years back to 1960-61.
Whether this should be treated as a
provision and charged against profits or
as a reserve appropriated from profits
is a debatable point.
Last year's provision was used to write
down the new holdings purchased in
Queensland Press Ltd and West Aus-
tralian Newspapers Ltd to par value
This is a procedure probably unique to
the Herald
Anyway the latest group balance sheet
shows amongst' reserves a balance of
£lOO,OOO as provision for development
and investment fluctuation.
Total investments at September 30,
3 963, appeared in the books at
£5,731,446 whereas their market value
at that date was more than £22 million.
The only shareholding not reduced to
par is a minor interest in Davies Bros
Ltd, proprietor of the Hobart “Mercury”.
Substantial investments are held in
Australian Newsprint Mills Holdings
Ltd, in Advertiser Newspaper Ltd of
Adelaide, and in Queensland Press Ltd.
Herald Sun TV Pty Ltd, one of Mel-
bourne’s commercial telecasters, is
85 p.c. owned by the Herald.
Another item for argument is the
£1.6 million “provision for increased cost
of plant replacement”, which was treated
as a charge against profits up to and
including 1960-61, and is now shown in
group accounts as a deferred liability.
Perhaps at some future date the
company will find there is no need for
this provision, and switch it into reserves.
The parent’s direct interests are in the
publication of The Herald and The Sun
News-Pictorial newspapers. The group
also runs two Victorian broadcasting
stations, and publishes various weekly
and monthly journals, and has a gravure
printery at Hawthorn (Vic.) to do com-
mercial printing.
In 1957 the Argus and Australasian
Ltd was bought out, and it ceased to
publish the competitive morning paper,
the “Argus”. It still functions as a pub-
lisher of magazines and a commercial
printer, and in the year to September
made a profit of £234,317, none of
which was remitted to The Herald in
dividends.
A recent acquisition was the whole of
the issued capital of Bendigo Advertiser
and Independent Pty Ltd for the issue
of 1 18,224 ss. shares at a substantial
premium, plus cash.
Introduction of the decimal currency
system in 1966 is hailed as a source of
additional profits as the newspaper price
in pence will probably be converted
directly to the larger-denomination cents.
For instance, the 4d. “Sun” is likely to
sell for 4 cents, the 3d. “Herald” for 3
cents.


Positions Vacant
GOVERNMENT OF HONG KONG
There is a vacancy for a Crown Counsel in the
Legal Department of the Government of Hong Kong.
QUALIFICATIONS: Solicitor with at leasl two years'
experience since Admission OR Barrister with at
least three years' experience since Call. Age limit
approximately 25-40 years. Male and unmarried
female candidates acceptable.
SALARY SCALES: AE1938-AE3526 per annum for
men, and AE1560-AE3526 per annum for women.
Entry point according to experience. Overseas can-
didates will be granted two overseas increments.
Appointment may be on contract for three years
(renewable) OR probation. Contract appointment
carries gratuity of AE276-AE33B per annum for men
and AE2IS-AE33B per annum for women. Free
passages. Accommodation at low rental. Free medi-
cal attention Low income tax. Home leave on full
pay at end of tour at rate of either 56 or 78 days
per year of resident service according to age.
Applications should be made to Professor Zelman
Cowen, Commonwealth Liaison Officer for Overseas
Civil Service Appointments, University of Melbourne,
who will supply further details.
In May, 1963, The Herald bought a
Flinders Lane freehold property at the
rear of its Flinders Street property, for
£450,000 from Sargood Gardiner Ltd.
This was satisfied by a small share issue.
The company was committed for only
£139,040 capital expenditure at Septem-
ber 30, 1963, compared with £524,829
in 1962. It has now completed a 13-year
programme of re-equipment.
Apart from premium issues to em-
ployees, the company has been virtually
self-financing over the last decade. A
one-for-three issue of ss. shares at 335.
premium was made to shareholders in
January, 1954, but since then there have
been two bonus issues in the ratio of
one-for-two.
The Herald’s hold on press, radio and
television in more than one State, plus
its financial structure and earnings per-
formance, commands one of the highest
premiums of any stock listed on Aus-
tralian Stock Exchanges.
After the last bonus the dividend was
cut from 22i to 20 p.c. No official
indication has been given on future
dividend policy. The interim, usually
announced in March, should be the
usual 7i p.c., but whether directors will
announce then their intentions for a
final, or what that will be, is anyone’s
guess.
If the new rate is 20 p.c., present
price of 535. gives a yield of 1.8 p.c.;
if 25 p.c., the yield is 2.3 p.c.
Although the next bonus may not be
another five years away, this valuation
heavily discounts future benefits. The
visible portents for the company are
good, but it’s better not to tempt fate
by pushing the shares higher.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
September 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 7618 7805 7934 7172 7834
Less current
liabilities 2667 2982 3670 3310 3731
Working capital 4951 4823 4264 3862 4103
Investments 3721 4199 4253 5148 5731
Fixed assets 4125 4558 5224 5925
Intangibles 53 53
12,850 13,633 13,741 14,453 15,759
Deferred
liabilities 1688 2002 2184 2217 2247
Minority interests 113 131 139 159 172
Pref. capital 400 400 400 400 400
Ord. capital 3804 3804 3804 3829 3881
Reserves 6845 7296 7214 7848 9059
12,850 13,633 13,741 14,453 15,759
Provision for
development 197 307 466
Provision for inc.
cost of plant
replacement 250 250 175
Depreciation 518 561 511 627 668
Taxation 661 978 941 1014 1113
Net profit 1038 1515 1513 1445 1437
Net profit
for ords. 1022 1499 1497 1429 1471
Dividends 761 1046 1046 1051 1064
Surplus 261 453 451 378 407
Earning rate 26.6 39.2 39.1 37.2 37.8
Dividend rate 20 2 7\ 27\ 27\ 27k
Div. yield (a) 2.3 3.3 2.2 2.3 2.6
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 32.2 21.3 32.3 27.0 28.6
High price (b) 47/6 52/- 62/9 63/3 76/-
Low price (b) 23/6 40/- 41/6 52/- 49/-
(a) End of December, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
Speculator’s Diary
ltfY man Reg, stationed in the UK,
tells me that it may still be a little
time before Hanimex is listed in London.
Steadfastly I have held these shares,
watching them weak at 13s. 7d. one
moment and strong at 13s. lOd. the
next. With everyone buying Perutz Film
and Hanimex fans, a good interim re-
port should be in the offing. Remember
the last one?
Likewise, I am hopeful of Aeron
turning in an optimistic interim report.
It is the only share in the portfolio
where the present market price is below
the cost price. I hasten to add that only
a fool could be losing money on the
present market.
While I’ve still got out this claim that
I am not a fool, I decided to sell the
W. R. Carpenter and R. N. Statham.
The W. R. Carpenter had moved up
very neatly and the sale resulted in a
profit of £36. Including the final divi-
dend, R. N. Statham also showed a profit
of £36.
Despite the discovery of Statham’s by
one of the financial papers, the price has
only edged up slightly. Also if a new
issue is coming up, there will be plenty
of opportunity to come back into the
stock.
Loaded with cash, I waded into buy-
ing 1000 Eric White at 15s. 6d. A big
purchase but it should prove worth it.
In the prospectus, Eric White describes
itself as one of the largest public
relations consulting firms in the world,
Its relatively short history has been
marked by rapid expansion. A list of its
overseas offices reads as if it were one
of the Readymix Concrete companies—■
London, Hong Kong, Singapore and
Auckland.
It seems only fair in determining the
latest earning rate to match the adjusted
profit of £31,915 in 1963 to the share
capital of £79,500 at June 30, 1963.
After all, this is what the Stock Ex-
change would have done if it were a
listed company at the time. It works
out at 40 p.c. No wonder the company
could afford to pay what appears to be
a 30 p.c. dividend for that year.
In a different way, I am equally
enthusiastic about Philip Morris. Figures
speak louder than words, so let’s set
down the profit and dividend record in
the last four years.
Year Earning Rate Dividend Rate
1961 10.8% 6%
1962 15.6% 8%
1963 22.6% 9%
1964 30.6% 10%
(The 1964 figures are based on the results for
the first half year.)
The table shows that earnings in the
last four years have been growing at a
compound rate of 45 p.c., and that the
dividend has been raised in each success-
ive year.
Philip Morris was a little slower in
showing its growth capabilities than
was Rothmans in its heyday. But then
Philip Morris finances all its operations
internally, whereas Rothmans depends
heavily on borrowed funds. Con-
sequently, the financial structure of the
company is very strong. Book assets
backing (and this would be most con-
servatively stated) is now 335. for each
20s. share. Why, then, does the share
sell at 385.? The obvious answer is the
growing adverse effect on cigarette sales
by the lung cancer reports.
But everything is a matter of relativity.
Surely the share is more than fully dis-
counted when it sells on a 16 p.c. earn-
ings yield. If (as Rothmans does) it sold
on a 10 p.c. earnings yield, the share
price would be 60s. I purchased 200
shares at 38s. on the Wednesday.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
300 W. R. Carpenter, 36/- £532
1000 R. & N. Statham, 12/- £6OO
BOUGHT
1000 Eric White, 15/6 £795
200 Philip Mlorris, 38/- £386
A debit of £34 remains in the account.
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
2000 Hanimex 23/5/62 9/6 14/-
1000 Aaron 14/8/63 7/9 7/3
500 Elders GM 12/9/63 22/- 27/-
1000 ODE 29/10/63 5/6 6/6
1000 Mobile Equip. 30/10/63 8/4 9/6
400 tableland Tin 5/11/63 22/- 26/-
1000 Steamship, new 11/11/63 11/9 14/6
400 Mai leys 12/11/63 27/3 32/-
200 Tutt Bryant £1
notes 22/11/63 29/3 31/9
1000 Ansett 2/12/63 7/7 9/-
500 Country Television 3/12/63 12/- 13/
200 AWA 20/12/63 26/3 28/-
400 O'Donnell Griffin 23/12/63 21/6 21/6
400 Stocks & Holdings 23/12/63 15/9 16/9
400 Pioneer Concrete 9/1/64 17/6 17/9
200 Pioneer Sugar 15/1/64 58/- 62/6
1000 Palgrave 16/1/64 2/6 2/11
500 Infer. Footwear, new 16/1/64 11/- 11/2
100 O'Don. Griffin, rts 20/1/64 8/- 8/9
500 Auto & Gen. Fin.,
notes 21/1/64 26/- 26/6
500 Watson & Crane 21/1/64 14/9 15/3
1000 Eric White 29/1/64 15/6 15/6
200 PhMip Morris 29/1/64 38/- 38/6


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Horning In on US Beef Market
Australia faces struggle to hold trade
T)resident Lyndon B. Johnson must
•*- be a cartoonist's delight. Giving him
a pair of spurs and a big hat and he
may be depicted aboard a bucking
bronco labelled “Berlin”, “Viet Nam”,
“Disarmament” or whatever the situation
calls for.
One can only hope that a cartoon we
shall not see will have a bespurred
Johnson bulldogging into the dust a large
steer labelled “Meat Imports’ 1 ,
But from all reports it would appear
that the future for Australian (and New
Zealand) meat is not too bright at all
in the United States new that the Texas
rancher is in the saddle.
In the first place, he likes to depict
himself as a “son of the soil” and even
if, by real ranching standards, he is a
bit of a small-timer, nevertheless he is
much closer to the American farming
outlook than was the late John F.
Kennedy. His own ranch, it is said, is
not paying well.
Secondly and this is far more
important probably all evidence
suggests that Johnson is an advocate of
“sound American business principles”
rather than the Keynesian philosophy
of Kennedy and his erstwhile “brains
trust” group of advisers.
J.F.K. saw the wisdom of relaxing
tariffs and freeing trade, and it is to be
hoped that some of his New Frontier
thinking sticks. But the attitude of the
Old Frontier is quite unmistakable.
The North American Newspaper
Alliance says: “Pressure on Australia,
New Zealand and Ireland to fix
voluntary quotas on their meat exports
to the US is inspired directly by President
Johnson himself”.
Until this cable, one frankly was
unaware that Ireland was in the trade
at all and one should be big enough to
believe that it was not for that reason
that President Kennedy resisted the pro-
testing bellows of indignation from US
ranchers.
Certainly under the Kennedy Admini-
stration the US Secretary for Agriculture,
Orville Freeman, repeatedly issued very
enlightened and encouraging, from our
point of view, appraisals of the situation.
The imports, he said, were in a low-
price “hamburger” range which the US
could not supply anyway. Moreover,
the American housewife was getting
meat at prices which most could afford.
Certainly a really good steak still costs
around 265. a pound in the US but
Australian “mince” can be bought for
9s. a pound. Before the trade started
some six years ago, steaks were as high
as £2 a pound.
Now, according to NANA, Secretary
Freeman has “got the word and has
changed his tune”.
It is not by any means true to say
that Australia is sitting still and doing
nothing. The Minister for Trade (Mr
McEwen) has said that Australia will
“stand firm” against American attempts
to place restrictive quotas on Australian
beef.
The secretary of the Australian Trade
Department, Sir Alan Westerman, and
the Australian Ambassador (Sir Howard
Beale) have had talks with the US
Under-Secretary of State (Mr George
Ball). Only time will tell just how firm
we can stand.
TTow much does the American trade
mean to Australia? It means a lot.
It has given the beef industry in this
country a shot in the arm that it needed
badly. It might even be said that it has
placed beef on a real industry footing
for the first time. Because of it we are
all eating better, though possibly not
cheaper, beef.
Numbers are not up dramatically
(about 12 million) but more beef cattle
are being bred. What is happening is
that cattle are being readied for slaughter
at 18 months to two years instead of
four years. Bullocks have all but dis-
appeared except in Queensland and the
Northern Territory, and even in those
parts there is a noticeable drive to
produce younger beef.
New breeds, or semi-breeds, such as
Murray Greys, Santa Gertrudis and
Galloways, are making their contribution
and this has stimulated activity on the
part of breed societies devoted to the
Angus, Shorthorns, Herefords and
Devons. It is even possible, in one or
two of the more expensive restaurants
in Sydney and Melbourne, to “name”
the breed of beast your steak comes
from.
Following the American pattern the
chain store supermarkets are providing
deep-frozen, and good quality, packaged
cuts of beef at prices which are causing
the butchers some concern.
Our meat might be second-grade by
American standards, but the trade has
given breeders the incentive to produce
lean meat, the kind customers want, of
a vastly improved nature. A few years
ago lean meat was simply poor meat.
Undoubtedly the decision of the
Commonwealth Government to now
permit the importation of certified semen
from Britain (animals are still barred
because of the blue tongue threat) is
linked with the need to breed better beef
animals by artificial breeding methods.
VjyiLLiAM Angliss has built a new kill-
" ing works at Darwin specifically
geared to the American market. And,
despite allegations of price-rigging, the
prices for beef cattle at markets through-
out the length and breadth of Australia
have increased noticeably in the past
six years.
Last year we sent beef worth £67
million to the United States In 1960
it was £25 million. It is landed on the
West Coast at around 3s. a pound and
American chain-stores (butchers have
disappeared in that country) are
naturally very happy to sell it at 9s. a
pound to housewives who are still
happier to buy it at that price.
The US is importing 11 per cent of
the beef it consumes and of this 11 per
cent about 44 per cent comes from
Australia.
Had President Kennedy lived, it is
possible things might have come to a
head, if not as dangerously for us, in
1964—an election year. Politics, of the
American kind, are naturally involved.
Seven powerful State governors of the
American beef producing States of
Kansas, Oklahoma, Utah, Montana, New
Mexico, Wyoming and Nebraska have
within recent weeks told the tariff
inquiry committee in Washington that
they want either an import quota, greatly
increased tariffs, or both placed on Aus-
tralian, New Zealand and Irish imports.
Governor John Anderson, of Kansas,
said: “This threat cannot be over-stated.
And Australia has only scratched the
surface of its beef production potential”.
The governors won an immediate
victory. A separate inquiry to investigate
the whole US meat industry is to be set
up by the US House of Representatives.
It is only conjecture at this stage, but
the inference seems to be that a separate
committee will handle the job better
than the Kennedy - indoctrinated tariff


.
-
■M-. :>
V /*
m
.>*■ ..
GSR \fINYLFLEX
FLOOR AND WALL TILES
So beautiful... so easy to maintain
So beautiful . . . because the rich colours are
moulded through to last for years. Choose from
30 beautiful, modern colours. So easy to maintain
. . . because the satin-smooth, durable surface resists
wear and scuffing . . . stays clean longer.
Simple, easy-to-follow laying instructions are
packed with your tiles. Select your design by using
the free CSR Pattern Planning Service. Vinyl flex
Tiles are made in Australia.
tj&ti \)mU telfeA
cJr
V 1.102
BUILD!Nu'N s /mATERIALS
SOLD BY DEPARTMENTAL AND HARDWARE STORES EVERYWHERE
inquiry committee. Better, that is, for
the ranchers.
The writing has been on the wall, or
the brand on the hide if you like, for
some time of course. Last month the
chairman of the Australian Meat Board
(Mr J. L. Shute) said: “The Australian
meat industry, generally speaking, has
had a good year in 1963, but there is no
doubt it will have to face some critical
developments in the coming year.
“Perhaps the most disturbing feature
of the export picture is the very high
percentage of our surplus meat going
to North America. While this has proved
an extremely valuable market the present
dependence on it to take the bulk of our
export places us in a vulnerable position.
“It is always difficult to convince a
businessman that a market which is
buoyant and looking for increased sales
is not in a sound position. Australia has
been repeatedly warned by producer
interests there (USA) that imports are
having a detrimental effect on their own
home-produced product.
“On the other hand, importers have
continued to encourage imports from
Australia, and in fact have claimed that
existing demands have not been satisfied”.
In Melbourne the chairman of the
Australian Meat Exporters’ Federal
Council (Mr J. S. Balderstone) said that
not enough notice was being taken of
exporters’ views.
It was little use, he said, sending to
Washington representatives expressing
the viewpoint of producers. It was the
meat exporters who had the knowledge
of marketing meat.
This writer has recently visited a
number of American cattle-raising States
and believes that if we can stand firm,
somehow, we have some chance of keep-
ing our exports going.
The American beef industry is be-
devilled by high costs. It has gone over
to expensive feedlots, not so much
because it likes the idea, but because it
is necessary to produce the very high
quality beef Americans demand.
The fall in prices about which the
American cattlemen complain is in the
higher grades which do not affect us at
all.
One of the biggest reasons is a “cheap
feed’’ policy instituted in 1961 to dispose
of surplus grain. This brought on over-
production of the top lines ... up seven
per cent last year.
American canners and processors
could be our staunch allies, they
complain that American ranchers cannot
provide them with the cheap cuts, and
the American dairy industry, with nine
million fewer animals than in 1945,
can no longer provide culls for canning.
overall trade picture between the
US and Australia also is on our side.
In 1961-62 American exports to Aus-
tralia totalled 350 million dollars against
imports from Australia of only" 230
million dollars.
Another point, not over-important yet
perhaps, is the considerable number of
American cattlemen who have either
put money into Australian beef
properties or who show interest in doing
so. As mentioned in a previous article,
the exact number of these “imperialist
cowboys” would be highly interesting—
if rather elusive at the moment. But if
our export future is at all that bad,
what are they doing here?
All things considered we should not
perhaps discourage them, and the bigger
they are the better.
One influential Congressman, W. R.
Poage, has come up with a novel
suggestion in Washington which, if
nothing else, illustrates the kind of
thinking we are up against. He has said
that in return for cutting back our meat
imports the US should increase its
purchase of sugar from Australia.
This, presumably, would have the
dual effect of keeping a good friend
happy and digging the spurs further into
Cuba.
Australian cattlemen who have built
up their herds in recent years should
now, perhaps, convert them intc Colonial
Sugar shares or start plantations of their
own.
It is solemnly reported that American
cattlemen, “traditionally independent of
legislation”, are showing "interest in
Congressman Poage’s sugar suggestion”.


Who’s GOING to Own the Land?
Costs are beating the small farmer
By JOHN ANDREW
HThe way things stand now, if you are
one of Australia’s 30,000 to 50,000
big farmers (Bulletin 1/2/64), your
chances of becoming bigger still appear
bright.
If, on the other hand, you are one
of the 200,000 whose incomes range
from the comfortable to the not-so-
comfortable, your chances of even main-
taining a reasonable growth appear to be
receding year by year.
Why is this so?
What has happened to farming which,
in almost every category, enjoyed an
immediate post-war boom?
The answer, simply, is costs It costs
more now to hire labor, to buy fuels,
fencing posts, wire, traefors, implements,
veterinary aids, professional advice and
all the other items necessary to run a
farm and to develop it. And it is the
development of farmland which is the
important part'
As so many “Pitt St farmers” have
found out, to their cost, there is really
no such thing as letting a farm take care
of itself. To do this means that sooner
or later you allow the land to revert
to its original state which might have
been anything from near-deserf to rain-
forest.
Farming, too, is more complicated
now. This means new costs as well as
increased costs. Today more and more
things such as pesticides, fertilisers and
pasture improvement aids are needed
and all these things have to be paid for.
Insurance salesmen and city critics
talk readily of “tax lurks”. But, as any
farmer and accountant knows, the
trouble is you have first to have the
money to spend.
HThe costs problem in farming is high-
lighted in a paper prepared for the
Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers’
Council. It states that sixty-five per
cent of the costs of producing wool are
in fields where restrictive trade practices
operate.
These costs are those of locally
produced (i.e. Australian produced) and
processed materials and plant, including
depreciation, together with services. Over
these the farmer has no control what-
ever.
According to this paper the “average”
woolgrower is a man with £40,000
capital investment in his property and
stock. From this he earns a net income
of about £2500 which, after allowing
him the award wage for his own labor,
represents a return on his capital of
approximately 4.5 per cent.
Out of this £2500 he has to take his
personal reward, meet the living
expenses of his family, pay interest on
borrowed capital and pay taxes
What is left —not much —he can then
invest in developing his property and
increasing his production, and, as he has
been told time and time again, he must
lift his production in order that wool
may meet the challenge of synthetics.
It is not difficult to see why so many
“average” and below “average” wool-
growers are in something of a state of
mind akin to despair.
It is not difficult to see why the
prospect of selling out —to a neighbor
who might have £400,000 invested in
his property — and putting the money
into a newsagency or a garage in Sydney
or Melbourne has an appeal.
If it were not for the current oppor-
tunity for a measure of diversification
provided by the beef trade to the US
and wheat to mainland China, both
unfortunately not long-term something
of a fairly marked exodus from the
land might have been witnessed. This
is why continuation of both these
operations, or alternatives, is of such
vital import to Australia.
TlThat of those who want to start
farms—the people who are sick of
the city “rat race” or the school leavers?
In most people’s language £40.000
is a lot of money but in reality, w'hen
it comes to buying a property it is not
much at all. If you have the farm left
to you, or you marry the only daughter
of a farmer, or you don’t need the
money, you might lick the costs problem.
Otherwise, much wiser to put the
£40,000 into shares, or the bank, and
take a nine-to-five job.
You do not have to buy a sheep
property, of course. You could go in
for wheat, poultry or cows and so on.
But take a look at the advertisements
of properties for sale —and never before
have so many properties been listed for
sale. Even the agents are reluctant to
describe anything under £25,000 as
“sound”.
You could go to Esperance, or the
Ord River, perhaps. The land will be
cheap, as low as five shillings an acre,
but the costs of developing it will be
ten times higher. You may have to wait
five years before you can derive any
sort of an income from it at all.
Every land development scheme starts
off with the commendable idea of putting
more families on the land. Yet in
examining every one launched in recent
times one discovers that much of the
best land gets into the hands of men who
already have big acreages in other parts.
This is very noticeable at Esperance
and on the Ninety Mile Desert. The Ord
has not been going long enough yet.
There is clearly no easy answer to
this problem of comparatively low
returns from comparatively high invest-
ment in farming.
All farmers’ organisations support the
Commonwealth Governments moves
towards curbing restrictive trade
practices. But how far are they going to
get?
If, for argument’s sake, the Govern-
ment permitted really large-scale, low-
tariff importation of machines and
equipment from Japan (after all our
biggest wool customer) would the
resulting chaos to our own factories be
in the national interest?
What is needed to make farming
buoyant is higher prices or lower costs,
or a little of each.
'C'xports, provided they are to coun-
tries which can pay the price, will
clearly help but unfortunately the popu-
lar antidote of “Asian export” will not
always work. Japan, clearly, offers much;
provided we are prepared to take more
from her in return.
With higher prices, or lower costs,
or both, a situation might develop where
farming will pay well enough for private
enterprise to lend money, at reasonable
rates on low deposits, to young men
wanting to become farmers Curbs on
huge properties, owned by absentees,
might then be justified.
A* present private enterprise wants
too big a deposit, and too quick a return,
and large-scale government lending
would only defeat itself as this would
push up further the already high prices
of farms, which cannot sustain quick
returns.
Curbing the big properties at present
has a far more emotional motivation
than the dictates of sound financial
thinking.
To keep the big properties out of the
areas where large-scale development is
needed would be suicidal as they are
the only ones who can adequately do it.
It would be simple enough to get
population into our empty lands . . .
just throw them open for the taking.
That, virtually, is what the i 569 Land
Act did it and it could be done again.
But we have become used to a “standard
of living” and we have developed a pub-
lic conscience. We could no longer sit
by and endure the thought of all these
new settlers suffering awful privations.
So perhaps we ought to do something
about costs for there are many millions
of people in the world who would not
worry about privations and a standard
of living.


People are talking
about the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
*N.Z Subscription to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick \/ whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? □ "
A renewal subscription? □
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
months subscription to THE BULLETIN.
*New Zealand readers may have their copies air
freighted (£4 4s. N.Z. for 52 issues, £2 12s. for
26 issues) or by surface mail (£3 7s. N.Z. for
52 ssues, £2 2s. for 26 issues).
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? More
and more people are buying the "new look"
BULLETIN for its features, its overseas and local news,
its columnists like Boadicea, Discus, Cellarmaster, its
reviews of films, books, music and theatre. If you
want to keep abreast of news and significant events
in Australia and abroad THE BULLETIN is a must.
Til©
Bulletin
A magazine of facts and ideas est. 1880
ON SALE WEDNESDAYS —2/-
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 782
ACROSS
I—The attractive bat supplies this thrombosis drama.
(6, 4)
6—Japanese suffering some reversal in a revolution. (4)
10— The epoch of the undried prune feathers. (7)
11— A bloke allowed costume jewellery. (7)
12— A countryman of Taffy looks well back, about 45
inches, and the earless yearn. (9)
13— Smith’s asset suggesting a chorus property, so one
appears before 6.50. (5)
14— Waggish structure. (4)
16—What poisons as a matter of course? (3)
17—Name sometimes given to
cricketer David Sheppard is
there before five. (3, 3)
21— The boss cocky is no bird.
(3, 3)
22 Bald Shylocks are bashful.
(3)
23 Backing a Napoleonic victory,
this is an object of worship.
(4)
26 Redback seen by an irregular
town between Tobruk and
Benghazi. (5)
27 Bandy basin prepared for
crumbing. (3-6)
29 The most snug change is so,
etc. (7-)
30— Rosie looks bad in weavable
vegetation. (5)
31— A nut cracked by Sally, for
instance. (4)
32 Flourishes plates of flour-mill
offal. (10)
DOWN
1— A late snack flexible enough
to replace about one beseech-
er. (9)
2 Rogue providing a cosmetic.
(5)
3 Remark from a tennis
promoter. (6)
4 Ibsen’s incomparable fantasy
wouldn’t amount to much if
so incomparable. (8)
5 Rising encouragement to
bloodhounds. (6)
7 Buddy, to hail a communist,
was in conference. (9)
8— Gould - Jolson section of
South Africa referring to
birth. (5)
9 Gratification to mash a fair
Persian. (7)
15—See a capital place on a horse-
rug. (9)
18— Legalises live with whom Mr.
Baba makes assignations. (9)
19— Seeks food for a very long
while. (7)
20— Display feathers during a
crucial confrontation. (8)
24 Ring a nipper, by the way.
(6)
25 Jewel in one pair of heavenly
twins. (6)
26 I’d act for random remarks
sometimes qualified by 24-
down. (5)
28—A circumference could only
become right if wrong. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 781


Howto
wake up
a Giant
Lucas 6 and 12 volt "Powerstream” Batteries
Sluggish things, giants. Hard to stir. But a little Lucas battery, no
bigger than the one in your car, does the trick. It wakes this Manitowoc
(an earthmoving monster with a big bite) instantly ... in all kinds of
weather... at the Barwon Dam Project in Victoria. Unusual? Not at all.
The Lucas “Powerstream” battery gives more starting power than any
similar-sized battery. Lasts 20% longer. Has a three years Insured Life.
All Lucas batteries are built with strong well-made components.
Separators designed to withstand the most testing conditions. Grids
made from anti-corrosive alloy.
Top performance is guaranteed like all Lucas Electrical Equipment
distributed throughout Australia by Lucas Agents and Leading garages.
LUCAS
“If it’s automotive electrics it’s Lucas"
JOSEPH LUCAS (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
• New South Wales • Queensland • South Australia
Western Australia • Tasmania
LA32-63


\LX
mum
E‘* *s«•■•.■ v&smKHKKtKKtKti
OLDEN AUSTRALIA
While you’re going. ..and when you get there
Jm ii»-
*
mm
, i*'»
m 9
«r>
ar
«ae
r~*
\ -i
IHI
... you'll have far more fun in Holden!
Built-in sleeping space (six feet, ten-and-a-half inches of it!) isn’t the
only way this new Holden makes things far more fun for families on the
go. Because Holden also gives you surging performance . . . performance
that not only shrugs off hills and heavy loads, but is silky-smooth as well
thanks to the exclusive 7-bearing crankshafts in both new Holden
engines. And with all its space and power, look at the other great things
you get. For example, Holden's smoother-than-ever Red Carpet Ride . .
its hushed hydraulic valve-lifters (standard on all Holdens) , its new
petrol economy and 6,000 mile oil changes. The more you look into
Holden s features, the more you’ll find to like. Which isn't surprising,
when you consider tnat Holden : s stiii the only car specificaJly designed
for Australia. But the best way to discover how much more family fun
and sheer driving pleasure Holden* has to offer is to drive the car
yourself. Why not visit your Hoiden Dealer and do just that 7 *regd.
HOLDEN
STATION
SEDAN
From £960 plus tax
ERA I- MOTORS - :■< 3 L ? E >' S
L.238 !
