

The Bulletin
OLD TANNER'S ALMANACK
DECEMBER 26. 196^
Tanner
ajstered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Australia 2/-, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $


—m.
HP
mm
m
n
wri
m
I
mm.
M
g®#
■
mmmm
fwmm
Make sure of
receiving your
Bulletin regularly
SUBSCRIPTIONS: 26 weeks £2/12/- Australian, £2/2/- Sterling and N.Z.;
52 weeks £4/4/- Australian, £3/7/- Sterling and N.Z. Send dollar equivalents
to New York and Malaysian offices.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please tick -y/ whichever is appropriate: |
I Is this a new subscription? Q or
A renewal subscription? |~|
Post this coupon to THE BULLETIN, Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney; OR Box 965,
G.P.0., Wellington, New Zealand; OR Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London; OR Australian Consolidated Press Ltd., 229 West
43rd Street, New York, N.Y.; OR Marican & Son, P.O. Box 985, Kuala Lumpur,
Malaysia.
New Zealand readers may receive the Air Freighted edition at £2/12/- New
Zealand for 26 issues, £4/4/- New Zealand for 52 issues.


National Notebook
Memorials
TThe fourth Adelaide Festival of the
Arts, due to be held in March,
1966, cannot be the same as the first
three, for which the late Professor John
Bishop was artistic director. Even if the
festival can survive intact without his
organisational gifts and enthusiasm, it
will lack his handsome, white-haired
presence.
As well as the festival, Professor
Bishop, who died in London last week,
leaves another memorial, the youth musi-
cians’ annual camps. This season’s will
be held at Geelong Grammar next
month.
Christmas Notes
Tt' VERY Y ear d § ets bigger and bigger,”
William G. James told us, speaking
of the success of his Australian Christ-
mas carols. "So it seems to me they’ve
come to stay. Yes, it is gratifying.
They've been done three or four times
now at St Paul’s in London, and they are
also sung in Canada and America and
Europe. Chappell’s tell me that ‘The
Three Drovers’—which is one I like very
much—has been chosen for a book of
the world’s best carols, so now I suppose
I have been anthologised too. Here in
Australia the Education Departments
took them up years ago, which has made
them widely known. My little grandson
sings them at school. He doesn't know
they're mine, though.”
Mr James, whose steel-grey hair and
upright carriage give him the air of a
retired soldier, wrote his first set of five
carols in 1948, to words by John
Wheeler. Chappell’s, who published
them and the ten other carols that fol-
lowed, report that these are still their
best-selling Australian compositions. Mr
James showed us the World Record
Club’s release of the whole 15, per-
formed by the Sydney Symphony Or-
chestra and the NSW State Conservator-
ium Choir. He also got out an American
Capitol recording of them, entitled
“Christmas in Australia”. The sleeve
had a photograph of lobster-colored
surfers on a blazing beach, all wearing
party caps and seated round a cloth
spilling over with crackerjacks, bottles
of milk and pineapples. “Extraordinary,
isn't it?” murmured the composer. “It
looks like a jazz show.”
The idea of writing some Australian
carols was sown in Mr James’s mind
when he was a chorister at St Peter’s,
Melbourne, before the First World War.
“Even now I get a thrill out of the tra-
ditional carols,” he said. “1 used to
think: Why haven't we got something
here? The thought was in my mind for
many years, but I could never get suit-
able words. Then I put the idea to
John Wheeler, who was at the ABC
No Angry Penguins
Tn recent weeks there has been any
•*- amount of kiteflying about reorganisa-
tion, sackings and book cancellations at
Penguin Books, Australia. But at Penguin
head office, just over the road from Lon-
don airport, an “absolutely horrified”
Penguin managing director, Sir Allen
Lane, just back from an Australian visit,
couldn't wait to put the record straight.
There won’t be any sackings, no books
v/ill be cancelled; an addition to the
board will be made —in Australia, not
in England.
Said Sir Allen: “We only started pub-
lishing in Australia ourselves last year.
Naturally there will be a little reorganisa-
tion. Brian Stonier is going to concentrate
more on publishing. To do this we are
going to add one more man to the board
for sales.
“The addition is an old school pal of
mine whom I met by accident at a cock-
tail party while in Australia. He’s been in
publishing before and I saw quite a lot
of him during my stay.”
The newcomer is John Stevens, 48,
married with five children and now living
in Newport. He went to Bristol Gram-
mar School. He takes up his job on the
board on January 1 and will mainly be
concerned with sales.
Sir Allen was quick to scotch the
rumor that Robert Hughes’s book on
Australian art was to be scrapped. “I’ve
a certain admiration for Hughes’s work,”
he said.
And of editorial advisors Geoffrey
Dutton and Max Harrris? There is “abso-
lutely no truth” in the rumor they would
be . sacked. “I regard Geoff as one of my
closest friends in Australia.
“I can't imagine how these things start.
You can take it from me there won't be
any changes other than those I’ve men-
tioned. It’s not a question of saying one
thing today knowing there'll be changes
tomorrow. There won’t be any.”
Sir Allen tells a story of Sydney ru-
mors. “I was having lunch with a pub-
lisher out there during my visit. During
the lunch he told me he'd heard rumors
of a tie-up of Penguins with another firm.
A few days later I was having lunch with
an executive of that other firm. He asked
me what was the strength of the rumors
behind the story that I was going to join
up with the first firm.”
There wasn’t an element of truth in
either statement.
The Bulletin
VOLUME 86
NUMBER 4427
Established 1880
DECEMBER 26
1964
When the Isa Closed
Down
No Bread for the Kids 12
AROUND MELBOURNE 19
BUSINESS AND FINANCE .... 39
CROSSWORD 50
FORUM 22
LETTERS 25
MAN ON THE LAND . 49
OVERSEAS 20
REVIEWS 31
SHORT STORY 26
SPECULATORS DIARY 47
TANNER’S ALMANACK 6-7
THIS AUSTRALIA 8
GENERAL
A Ride on the Wild Mouse .... 14
Wrestling: No Feathers or Fancy
Stuff 15
Buying a Dog 17
When Dr Soekarno Dies? 20
The Conscience of Senator
Gold water 22
REVIEWS
A survey of the year’s literature
by Leonie Kramer 31
Art, Theatre, Films during 1964:
reviews by David Martin,
Denis O'Brien and Charles
Higham 31
BOOKS
Anthology of erotic poetry, re-
viewed by D. J. Enright 35
An Infinity of Mirrors, by Rich-
ard Condon 36
Take Me To Russia, by Colin
Simpson 36
FINANCE
Mid-stream in the ’Sixties 41
Sweeter than Sugar 42
Background of ACl's Eminence 46
Editorial Office: 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666, Ext. 2504


C 3
:
-T :
m
SSP*
Typical Airtemp self
Contained Packaged
Air Conditioner.
IN AIR CONDITIONING. AS IN FINE CARS
Ln_nJ
EE
EE
E~ I
EE
Ln_nJ
EE
_n_rd
(s=E>
EE
EeJ
(EE
C=i
J~U~L
EE
New exclusive Airtemp
Central Station
refrigeration Unit.
n
*****
IS YOUR
ASSURANCE OF
PERFECT
PERFORMANCE
'Engineering leadership is a Chrysler tradition. It is the "trademark” of quality in Chrysler
built cars. It is your guide to perfect performance in air conditioning. Airtemp, a division
of the Chrysler Corporation, whose only business is Air Conditioning was first in the
packaged air conditioning field way back in 1936. Engineering leadership has kept Airtemp
first in quality and first in value.
Chrysler made the break-through in the Central Station Air Conditioning of large and
complex buildings too. with this tiny heart of a mighty air conditioning system shown
above. It translates useless pounds of structural steel into a compact mechanical muscle
far longer life, giving trouble free service and more economical standing room.
You should find out more about this
revolutionary new climate
k
Leasing facilities are now
available. Please phone or write for
details.
Q’LD. Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd.,
620 Stanley St., Woolloongabba.
Phone 4 2941
N.S.W. Strataflo Pty. Ltd., Cnr.
Parramatta Rd. & Barr St., Camperdown .
Phone 51 6645
A.C.T. A.C.T. Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd.,
14 Yallourn St., Fyshwick. Phone 9 0081
VIC. Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd.,
291 Moray St., S, Melbourne
Phone 69 7114
S.A. Chrysler Australia Limited,
Airtemp Division, Finsbury. Phone 45 3661
W.A. Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd.,
657 Murray St., Perth. Phone 23 2214
f JRTEMP OPERATIONS
&
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIA LTD.
,s=B 7iirtemp
CLIMATE BY CHRYSLER ■
RESIDENTIAL • COMMERCIAL • INDUSTRIAL AIR CONDITIONING
CMH


with me, and that was how it started.
He’s done a wonderful job, I think.”
Since he retired as the ABC’s Federal
Director of Music in 1957, Mr James
has occupied himself writing songs and
piano pieces (he has published over 100
compositions) and in working as a music
examiner. He told us he had just spent
a month auditioning Australian singers
for the Metropolitan Opera, New York.
We asked him if he planned to write any
more Australian carols, and he hesita-
ted before replying. “No,” he said
slowly, “I don t think we’ll do any more.
Not at the moment. We need a new
angle. You know how it is, you get to
a point where your ideas go.”
Putting On Dog
T ike many suburban general practi-
tioners, Mrs Denise Clark dreamt of
the day when she could hang out a
specialist's plate and keep regular hours.
Now she has achieved her own rooms in
The Valley, Brisbane, but finds that life-
and-death matters keep her perpetually
on call.
Mrs Clark opened Poodle Pamper a
short time ago. Before that she gave
beauty care at her home where she
breeds, sells and trains poodles. “I
thought when I opened the salon that I
would be able to close the doors at 4 p.m.
but there’s always a late call saying a
poodle is sick or asking for help for a
difficult birth,” she said.
In office hours Mrs Clark washes and
cuts hair, gives manicures and arranges
introductions between suitable poodles.
She advises on diet. More blunt than
most beauticians, she quotes 17s. 6d. for
tinting and advises against it. “A good
poodle with good hair doesn’t need a
tint,” she said.
Magic
“T> ut where is the magic?” Miss Mina
Shelley asked, when her hour-long
production of “Toad of Toad Hall” had
finished its fourth show of the day in
Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries, Sydney.
For the children there seemed to be
enough magic in Toad and his friends
but Miss Shelley looks back to the great
days of pantomime. “When I was a girl
in England the greatest thrill of our lives
was to be taken to the theatre,” she said.
“I was born into the theatre Pease-
blossom at 10. We saw all the great
pantomimes. They were breathtakingly
beautiful. They still are. Pantomime is
still as strong as ever in England, particu-
larly in the provinces.
“Of course, this seems rather small,
when you think that I’ve produced
pageants at the Sydney Showground, that
I’ve always done things on a big scale,
controlling hundreds of people But I like
it.”
This is the seventh year that Miss
Shelley has produced a free, miniature
pantomime for Farmer’s, which is pro-
bably the only shop in Australia to pro-
vide one. “We’ve done Cinderella, Alad-
din, Jack and the Beanstalk but this year
I wanted to do a classic,” Miss Shelley
said. “The actors are mainly students
from my School of the Theatre and they
get full Equity rates for the season.
Very good for a holiday job, of course.
Farmer’s display people make the cos-
tumes and sets. They do a wonderful
job. And after the season is over the
stage which is quite big, you’ll see,
with a proper lighting board and every-
thing —is dismantled and stored away,
goodness knows where.”
Free Speech
r 1 'he best way to sum up 1964 is to let
A people speak for themselves:
Let the imperialists and reactionaries
tremble before our unities. Mao Tse-
tung to Khrushchev.
If you live among wolves you have to
act like a wolf. Khrushchev.
Poor Khrushchev has gone. Sic transit
gloria mundi. General de Gaulle.
I wish Mr Khrushchev hadn’t been
deposed at all. I wish I hadn’t been
deposed. Sir Alec Douglas-Home.
I always feel that the Labor Party
don’t misunderstand me when I say it
has got something in common with the
old stagecoach. I do not mean it is out of
date but if it is rattling along at a rare
old speed most of the passengers are so
exhilarated and some so seasick that they
don’t start arguing. Harold Wilson.
I am not afraid of the Socialists be-
cause they are too progressive. I fear
them because they are so reactionary.
Harold Macmillan.
Tories are not always wrong, but they
are always wrong at the right moment.
English Liberal Lady Violet Bonham
Carter.
When elected President of the United
States I will live as a President should
live, act as a President should act, put my
faith in the people, the Constitution and
Almighty God and nobody can beat that.
Senator Barry Goldwater.
Extremism in the pursuit of the Presi-
dency is an unpardonable vice. President
Johnson.
. . . The rather unfriendly attitude of
Indonesia. Malaysian Defence Minister.
I am a common man who makes mis-
takes too. Soekarno.
Our position is not perilous. Australian
Minister for Defence.
The reasons for rejecting conscription
have nothing whatever to do with the
political consequences of its introduction.
The Minister for the Army.
Barring accidents, we should all be
here after the Senate election. Menzies.
We no longer live from year to year
but from month to month and day to
day. I want to wish everyone a Merry
Christmas and a Happy New Year.
Calwell. J
Tanner
"It's no good, darling! We can't go on meeting like this."


Olde Tanner’s Almanack
INDUSTRIALISATION
New Industries such as satire need to be put on a more
rational basis. Tariff Board should grant protection against
“Private Eye” and Lyric Reviews. Curbs on involuntary
satire, Folk Song writers, Film and Art critics, Wheat
Board, “Nation” and ABC. Prosecutions of “Oz” should
be limited to ensure good consumer demand.
NEW IMAGE
Man standing on beach with child solemnly licking ice-
cream; New Ancient Greeks; City Dwellers crushed by
Awareness of huge Emptiness in Outback are all right up
to a point. I suggest new images such as Huge Empty City
Dweller crushed by Awareness of New Ancient Greek
who is solemnly serving him ice-cream.
EDUCATION
State Aid for State schools is still an explosive issue and
marked by nasty overtones of sectarianism. However,
this must not prevent us from resolutely confronting the
problems involved. The rights of this significant minority
have been too long overlooked.
DEFENCE
The success in repelling tourists with indigenous flies,
publicans etc., should be developed. A new active view
of National Repulsiveness is needed. The success of
White Australia in this field too well known to be worth
further comment. Conscription of youth to be geared
to first signs of repulsiveness. Parents’ reactions not be
regarded as evidence.
MASS COMMUNICATIONS
The emergence of national daily newspapers is still
awaited with interest. “News Weekly” has not formally
announced its plans due to circulation difficulties, although
its promotional advertising “I wouldn’t read that muck”
has been very successful in Labor circles.
DEVELOPMENT
The Government’s policy of Do Nothing and Leave it
to the Indonesians has been unassailable, given its defence
policy, but fresh thinking (see defence) is now called for.
The Opposition’s policy of Do Nothing and Leave it to the
Chinese is a more up-to-date attitude and should be en-
couraged.


★ A Guide for Reformers and a Blueprint of
Australia's Future
FOLK SINGING
The Pastures Protection Board must take over this hardy
perennial, known as Banjo Paterson’s Curse. It flourishes
in darkened spots and suckers readily. Commercial strains
can give a good yield and hybrids are common or ethnic.
THEATRE
The Elizabethan Theatre Trust has been successful in
overcoming initial resistance to its Policy-of-the-Absurd,
or Meta-policy. The Theatre without Actors is credited
as our first truly indigenous art form and plans are afoot
to interest commercial entrepreneurs.
SPORT
Menzies as a national sport is in decline despite great
coaches such as A. Calwell. The younger generation pre-
fer sport that allows greater participation than excited
cries of “Thistle put value back in the pound”, etc.
ALLIANCES
Great and Powerful Friends like The Rolling Stones,
Beatles, etc., must be encouraged but we must show a
willingness to help ourselves. Although the Good Guys
and Grantley Dee are watersheds, valiant contributions
such as J. O K., Johnny Devlin and Digger Revell are
just not good enough.
PAINTING
Painting should be taken over as a National Trust. The
preservation of National Monuments such as Dobell,
Drysdale, Nolan has been left too long to overseas com-
panies. Funds have been provided to preserve the You
Beaut Country. Tempe tip is being cast in bronze.
ABORIGINES
Fine to Mild with variable temperatures, winds moder-
ating S. to S.E. Slight seas. Forecast: No change.


THIS AUSTRALIA:
A Year’s “Corruption”
From “The Group " to “Oz”
VTineteen-sixty-four has been one of
A* the busiest years for Australian cen-
sorship since the nation-wide wave of
obscenity legislations in the middle
19505. New pro-censorship organisa-
tions have been launched, such as the
League of National Welfare and Decency
(Slogan: “Sex is Your Business”). New
techniques of censorship have been intro-
duced —such as banning a book, not by
prosecuting booksellers but warning
them that a prosecution would be con-
sidered —as happened in Victoria with
Mary McCarthy's “The Group”. A new
level of severity in penalties was set when
a magistrate sentenced the editors of
“Oz” to gaol for six months. (That deci-
sion is at the time of going to press still
under appeal.) New groups have been
attacked, notably students whose Uni-
versity of NSW newspaper “Tharunka”
MARY McCARTHY
JOHN KERR, QC
VLADIMIR NABOKOV
RICHARD NEVILLE
was the subject of an obscenity prosecu-
tion (a blasphemy prosecution was also
suggested) and university lecturers who in
Sydney, Perth and Canberra have been
unable to import or get free access to
literary or scientific books needed for
academic teaching.
Towards the end of the year there at
least seemed a slight slackening of the
censorship drive when Judge A. Levine,
in overruling the fines imposed by a
magistrate on the editors of “Tharunka”,
gave a new interpretation of the statuory
words “undue emphasis on sex”, confin-
ing the phrase’s meaning to the tradition-
al test of obscenity—“tendency to de-
prave and corrupt”. This has reduced
the worries not only of student pub-
lishers but the publishers of popular
magazines which may “unduly empha-
sise” sex but corrupt no one.
The biggest literary case of the year
was "The Group”. After being warned
by police that they were considering a
prosecution (they later prosecuted a seller
of “The Song of the Red Ruby”), Mel-
bourne booksellers withdrew all copies
of “The Group” and trucked them to
interstate cities, where they sold like
hot cakes.
In Melbourne a Freedom to Read
Committee of intellectuals was formed to
fight the ban, but after prolonged agita-
tion finally decided not to provoke a
prosecution by selling the book.
Mary McCarthy said: “Well I can’t
get too excited about it, to be truthful.”
The “Lolita” case for 1964 centred
around the decision of the English De-
partment at the Australian National Uni-
versity to set Vladimir Nabokov's novel
in its American literature course and to
apply to the Customs Department for
permission to import a limited number of
copies, or even one copy for restricted
use by students in the library. Permission
was refused, Dr R. F. Brissenden of the
university, however, said he now reads
passages from the book to his students.
The ANU was not the only university
where the Customs Department inter-
fered with academic work. At the Uni-
versity of NSW, Professor R. Martin has
refused to use certain psychology books
because of the severe conditions laid
down by the Customs Department—that
he not quote from them and that he read
them only under supervision. At the
University of WA the Librarian, Mr L.
JUDGE A. LEVINE
Jolley, said the Customs Department had
refused him permission to import
“Another Country” for the academic
staff.
The satirical magazine “Oz” was the
third great case of the year. Unlike
“Lolita” and “The Group” it involved
police prosecutions. In its second
prosecution, Mr G. A. Locke sentenced
the editors to six months’ hard labor.
Judge Levine had not at the time of
writing handed down his judgment in the
appeal and the case remains sub judice.
Witnesses ranging from Professor James
McAuley to John Olsen testified to the
magazine’s literary and artistic merit. In
his final speech for the editors, John
Kerr, QC, said satire is a breeze of re-
form and sex should not be immune.
A number of other magazines, from
the nudist “Solar” (which a Melbourne
magistrate said did not unduly emphasise
sex but had a tendency to corrupt) to
“Figure” and “Pleasure” were the subject
of prosecution. It was here that the in-
fluence of Judge Levine's judgment re-
versing the convictions of the editors of
“Tharunka” was felt. The magistrates
found that these magazines unduly em-
phasised sex but would not corrupt.
One of the few good signs this year
has been a cooling off of enthusiasm for
the idea of unified censorship.
THE ECONOMY
In Full Stride
The Mt Isa shut-down
on the copper front, the coun-
try is seeing 1964 out in full
economic stride. As late as November,
industry surveys revealed that, despite
the basic wage rise, costs were not as
pressing a problem for manufacturers
as insufficient labor and orders. An
increasing volume of new investment in
the latter months of the year betokens
great confidence in the long-term future.
But there were doubts about the immedi-
ate prospects for business,
These were not all prompted by the
likelihood that the shadow of the Mt
Isa shut-down would get longer. But the
shortage of copper will have pervasive
effects: Production will be affected in a
number of key manufacturing industries;
essential public works, particularly in
the PMG’s Department, which is the


biggest single consumer of the metal, will
be held up; Queensland will be disrupted
and income will be reduced over a wider
field. In overseas trade the balance of
payments could be £5O million worse off
m 1965.
Even so, the £B3O million now in
our overseas kitty, coupled with the
rough balance in the inflow and outflow
from it, means we start the New Year
in a very strong position.
This is not to say the coast is com-
pletely clear. Britain’s uncomfortable
balance of payments position and the
possibility of adverse turns in the
economies of the United States and
Japan could spell trouble for Australian
exports in due course.
J. C. HORSFALL
ABORIGINES
Legal Reforms But...
Failure of the Door Knockers
In a year of drastic legal reforms
for Aborigines new legislation gave
the Territory’s 18,000 Aborigines free-
dom to own property and firearms, to
buy liquor and methylated spirits, to have
sex with whites, to live where they
choose.
In Queensland legislation is being re-
drafted. Managers of the State’s Abo-
riginal settlements will no longer have
the “privilege” of being able to make
their own rules, arrest Aborigines who
break them and imprison offenders.
In Victoria and NSW almost all legis-
lation regarding Aborigines no longer
discriminates against them. Changes
JOYCE MERCY
PHILLIP ROBERTS
DAVIS DANIELS
KATH WALKER
made in South Australia and Western
Australia laws in recent years have com-
bined with those of the eastern States to
give most of Australia’s Aborigines the
right to drink, travel, vote and own pro-
perty.
In Sydney this year Council health in-
spectors were ordered to investigate and
“clean up” the living conditions of the
city’s 6000 Aborigines.
In Brisbane the AWU applied for
equal wages for Aborigines working in
Queensland under awards. If granted,
this will also affect Aborigines working
under AWU awards in other States.
The Australian Workers’ Union,
through its general secretary, Mr T.
Dougherty, took perhaps the most posi-
tive action in applying for a new Federal
pastoral award that would give all
Aborigines the same wages, rights and
privileges as white workers covered by
that award. Mr Dougherty told the
court “. . . we are deliberately setting
out to prove the rights of people, irre-
spective of who they are, to receive the
award rates and conditions ... It is the
right of Aborigines to be employed under
the same conditions and under the same
wages as their fellow Australians, what-
ever their color and nationality”.
Elsewhere, the Waterside Workers’
Federation in Victoria reserved a quota
for Aborigines.
During the year Aborigines Joyce
Mercy and Lester Bostock were invited
to the Christian Youth Council in Manila
and Aborigines Davis Daniels and Phillip
Roberts were asked to visit Kenya.
Aboriginal authoress Kath Walker
broke Queensland's Jacaranda Press re-
cords with sales of her book of poems.
The NT increase in Aboriginal pros-
titutes was described as “alarming”. Davis
Daniels, a Darwin medical orderly, told
a select committee that something
had to be done to stop “open and wide-
spread prostitution between black women
and white men”. He blamed wages in-
equality for the scandal.
Sydney’s reaction to the recent door-
knock appeal by the six-months-old
Foundation for Aboriginal Affairs often
was disappointing. Acting chairman
Mr Russell Hausfeld said last week that
some Sydney people so abused collectors
that they gave up the job and went home.
“Some were very generous and said it
was a good cause for good people,” he
said, “but a few others asked collectors
‘What do you want to collect money for
those black bastards for?’ ” The Founda-
tion hoped to raise £150,000. It raised
only £BO,OOO.
TRADE UNIONS
Left Turn
New men and new ideas
Probably the most significant feature
in Australian trade union affairs for
1964 was also least publicised—a grow-
ing social consciousness. The major
efforts in this direction centred around
the Australian Aborigines. (See story on
Aborigines on this page.) Another in-
stance was in Victoria where the Meat
Workers' Union, led by Communist Mr
G Seelaf, opened a twelve-bed clinic
wholly financed by and for trade union-
ists.
But there were other less reassuring
trends. The come-back of the Communist
Party of Australia and the extreme Left
in a number of unions, and the extra-
ordinary number of union elections in
which such officials were unopposed
were evidence of these. In NSW all 19
officials of the Communist-led Building
Workers’ Industrial Union were unop-
posed, as also in the Boilermakers’.
Elections in the Seamen’s Union found
10 of the 11 officials unopposed.
Elsewhere determined men showed that
the Communists and extreme Left could
be defeated. In a bitterly contested poll,
Mr M. C. (Mick) Jordan defeated the
Left-wing nominee for the important
position of Secretary of the Melbourne
Trades and Labor Council. More sur-
prisingly, Mr Jordan’s nominee for the
Assistant Secretary’s position, Mr K. C.
Stone, defeated the Left-wing candidate.
Mr J. Riordan, Federal Secretary of
the Clerks’ Union, consolidated his posi-
tion as a strong man on the Interstate
Executive of the ACTU and, in spite of
a vicious campaign to prevent him, was
admitted to the ALP. “Communist Re-
view” blames Riordan for restricting
ACTU support for the Communist-
“front” Sydney Peace Congress.
Mr L. Short and his moderate ALP
team brushed aside a CP-led challenge
in the Ironworkers’ triennial elections.
Communist shop committees forged
ahead in strikes in defence establish-
ments.
Mr Laurie Carmichael emerged as the
new Communist strong man of the trade
union movement, a post which has been
vacant since the death of Jim Healey.
Carmichael showed his strength during
the fantastic strike at General Motors-
Holdens when he manoeuvred thousands
of workers to disaster, then successfully
transferred the blame to Mr Albert
Monk.
The fall in trade union membership
continued.
FRED WELLS
(The Isa strike is reported on page 12.)


CRIME
Murder, Fraud, Tax Evasion
One year is much like another
As Quincey said: “Something more
goes into the composition of a fine
murder than two blockheads to
kill and be killed.”
What that something more is (as far
as the general public are concerned)
may be discovered by looking at the
cases which have excited the greatest
public interest over the past few
years. In 1962 there was the Tait case
in Victoria and the Lawson case in New
South Wales. In 1963 we had the
“mutilation” murders in New South
Wales and the varied activities of Eric
Edgar Cooke in Western Australia. This
year we had to make do with Cooke’s
further confessions, until his execution
in October put a stop to them; and the
case of Glen Sabre Valance in South
Australia who was executed last month.
And in every case (the only notable
exception being the Benn “mercy-killing”
in Western Australia last February) the
extra ingredient was present. Sex, of
course; for sex and violence make an
irresistible combination. Which helps ex-
plain the current furore over gang rape.
Yet when we go behind the posters,
the banner headlines and the “shock”
stories, what do we find? Almost in-
variably that one year is very much like
another. And all the startling increases
and “waves” of crime turn out to be
curiously evanescent and elusive.
Take the figures for juvenile delin-
quency by way of example. On television
and radio, in newspapers and magazines
it is constantly being suggested that an
unprecedented wave of juvenile crime
threatens to engulf us. In fact, the abso-
lute numbers are inevitably rising and
will continue to do so if they keep pace
with the rising population. What really
needs explaining is why the juvenile
delinquency rate is so low in Australia.
Why, for example, is it less than half
the United Kingdom rate?
And if we look at the most recent
available figures for Australia the most
striking feature is not the fact that
almost all States report the expected
increases roughly proportionate to popu-
lation growth. It is that in Queensland
the numbers of juvenile offences com-
mitted during 1963-64 was 10.6 per cent
less than the figure for 1962-63. What
is the explanation for this? It seems very
likely that it was due in part to the work
of the Police Juvenile Aid Bureau formed
in 1963 and recently increased in
strength. This is a system which has
been successfully employed overseas in
combating juvenile crime. Members of
the Bureau act as juvenile liaison officers
and deal with minor delinquency cases,
concentrating on those who appear to
be potential persistent offenders.
Yet, Queensland, like other States,
has had its share of scare headlines. Only
the other day “a new wave of crimes of
sex and violence” was announced. And,
as in other States, a number of cases of
multiple rape have been reported in the
past year. Of course final figures for the
number of gang rapes in any State in
1964 are not yet available. But such
information as is available indicates no
increase in the number of rapes, although
the number of arrests may have risen
slightly. The suggestion that this is a
novel type of crime is ludicrous.
Different States react to their juvenile
crime problem in different ways. Tas-
mania, for instance, appears to have
adopted a “get tough” policy recently.
A 15 per cent increase in prison
receptions of whom over half were under
25 and more than a quarter under 20
is one result. This, curiously enough, in
a year when there has been no significant
increase in juvenile crime.
As for adult crime, such reports as
are available do not suggest that there
have been any dramatic developments in
regard to either its nature or extent in
1964. The Victoria Market shootings in
Melbourne dominated the front pages of'
newspapers in January and February.
Yet all the purple prose about an inter-
national oath - bound, blood - cemented
brotherhood seems to have been evidence
of nothing more than the perennial
fascination of the Mafia myth Ultimately
what emerged was mainly a conflict
between groups trying to gain control
of the “stand-over” extortion rackets
amongst the growers and wholesalers in
the fruit and vegetable sections of the
Market. And as Chief Police Com-
missioner Arnold says in his latest
annual report, “these groups are not
connected with any overseas organisa-
tion”.
An interesting development in Vic-
toria this year relates to company frauds.
The Victorian Company Fraud Squad has
been doubled, and a member of the
Auditor-General's Department has been
seconded to them in his professional
capacity as an accountant and registered
company auditor. And recently a num-
ber of successful prosecutions have
been launched. Much work is involved
in investigating this type of crime; a
recent case occupied a team of in-
vestigators full time for seven months
and the brief of evidence listed 265
witnesses.
Another kind of “white-collar crime”,
which is commonly ignored by the man
in the street, is tax-evasion. It has been
estimated that this runs into something
like £2O million per annum; more than
double the total value of all property
stolen during the year. A curious
obliquity seems to afflict most of us in
regard to this type of offence, as it
does in relation to culpable homicide by
motorists. Yet are the motor man-
slaughterers and the tax evaders really
very much less selfish and immoral than
all other types of criminal? In terms of
both money and human misery they cost
the community far more. In reckoning
the social cost of crime during 1964,
these are unquestionably the biggest
items.
GORDON HAWKINS
UNIVERSITIES
Eggleston Year
The problem of getting
exceptional people
the close of the year, the indications
are that Australia's ten universities
will have soon grown to twelve. A coun-
cil and vice-chancellor have been ap-
pointed to the new Macquarie Univer-
sity at Ryde (Sydney) and Newcastle
University College may well gain its
long-sought autonomy from New South
Wales in 1965. A third university for
Victoria is still being talked about; South
Australia is extending the University of
Adelaide by building a new college at
Bedford Park; and a university for
Papua-NG is still no more than a dream.
Staff is still the biggest problem. The
Commonwealth's acceptance of the
Eggleston recommendations for salaries
of £5200 for professors with correspond-
ing increases down the line virtually re-
stored the Gorman award challenged by
the New South Wales Government. But
the problem of attracting and holding
exceptional people is still unsolved.
The Federation of Australian Univer-
sity Staff Associations produced some
useful documents on university govern-
ment, but no attention was given to the
development of special pedagogic tech-
niques; and no recognition was given to
the hard fact that a majority of our
students are part-timers.
In Tasmania, the University's Chair of
Philosophy still languishes under the ban
imposed by the Australian Association of
Philosophy. In WA Dr Maurice Benn,
head of the University's Department of
German, was sentenced to 10 years’ hard
labor for the murder of his four-year-old
mentally defective son. The University
showed humanity and courage by em-
ploying Mrs Benn and announcing that
it would re-employ Dr Benn when re-
leased. Some say this may be in 1965.


m
**,, J'
■■
K- .-
now!!!!!!
maximum
security
right at
your
fingertips
WITH
SPECIAL
KEYING
SYSTEMS
J
i '
MASTER-KEYED SYSTEMS
A Master-Keyed System is one in which each
.lock has its own individual key, which oper-
ates that lock only and no other, but where
each lock is also built to a Master-Key which
will open all locks in the group.
Within a Master-Keyed System, if required,
certain locks may be grouped in a section
Keyed-Alike to a given Service-Key, and still
subject to the Master-Key.
GMK
MK-A
1
MK-B
MK-C
At. A 2. A 3. Bt. 82. 83. Cl. C 2. C 3.
. A3.Q C«.®
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which
operates that lock only and no other, but the
locks are divided into two or more groups.
Each group is subject to its own Master-Keyj
which opens all locks in that group, but no
other group.
However, all locks are also subject to a
Grand Master-Key which opens all locks in
all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike
groups may also be included in G.M.K. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM YOU
NEED CARRY ONLY ONE KEY
INSTEAD OF HUNDREDS!
REPLACING INSECURITY
AND CONFUSION WITH
MAXIMUM SECURITY.
MAXIMUM CONVENIENCE!
In industry and commerce today a Lockwood MK System is an essential pre-
requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade and
Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part of the
building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are held
on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries —enabling quick
replacement of lost keys or damaged locks “true to code", and allowing absolute
control of additions or extensions to the systems.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss Master-
Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty. Limited
at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention. manufactured in Australia by
LOCK UP
WITH
N.Z. Agent: G. D. LITTLE LTD.,
Wellington and Auckland.
New Guinea Agent: CARL F. RADKE
AGENCIES, Port Moresby.
Ogden Industries
PTY. LIMITED
Melbourne: 569 0611 • Sydney:
56 3191, 56 3114, 56 3166, 56 3186
Brisbane: 7 3047 • Canberra:
4 4098 • Adelaide: 8 2153
Perth: 23 2214 • Hobart: 3 3141
Launceston: 2 1441
Agents also in Kenya, Uganda, Tanganyika, South Africa, The Rhodesias, Malaysia, The Philippines, Hong Kong,
Thailand, Indonesia.


When The Isa Closed Down
"Copper in the ground but no bread in the kids' stomachs."
The closed gates at Mt. Isa Mines.
By GORDON CHESTERMAN
IVfoRE than an hour late for his Press
ITJL conference in Brisbane’s State Par-
liament House last Monday evening, the
tall, bespectacled, conservatively dressed,
slightly paunchy Premier Prank Nicklin
handed round his Press statement —he
was in no mood to be questioned—and
hurriedly left for dinner. The statement
said he was amending the State of
Emergency Order to allow Mount Isa
Mines Limited to sack men who refused
to work on a contract basis. Fourteen
hours later, as I arrived in the tiny
northern Queensland wilderness township
of Mount Isa, the mines closed down.
In the town itself, after 16 weeks of
hostilities, sackings, go-slow strikes and
wild meetings, there was a strange un-
expected calm. It was as if the people
had resigned themselves to the inevitable.
At 5.30 p.m. on Tuesday in a blistering
105 degrees temperature, miners, busi-
nessmen, their women and children,
packed into the local picture theatre,
hundreds spilling out on to the roadway,
to hear the strikers’ leader, Big Pat
Mackie.
A jeep-driving, overwhelming, over-
bearing man, Mackie is a New Zealand-
born 50-year-old Canadian citizen who
came to Australia in 1949.
He openly admits having been con-
victed in Canada of peddling narcotics
and being in possession of a weapon
amongst other charges. He is known
under various names including Wesley
Bredmus and Eugene Markey.
But brilliant mob orator and psychol-
ogist that he is, he failed now to excite
the miners as he had done so often in the
past weeks. They stood at the bars of
the hotel across the road drinking cool
beer, and Pressmen, wary after being
threatened with violence by some of the
more militant miners the previous day,
watched from the verandah of the hotel
sipping at beer and furiously jotting
down the more relevant facts.
There was little emotion as Mackie,
for once his red baseball cap in his hand,
read telegram after telegram from trade
unions and individuals throughout Aus-
tralia who congratulated the miners on
their stand—“ Keep up the good fight,
Keep punching”—and some offering fin-
ancial support. The crowd grew restive
as Mackie's Canadian accents droned on;
some left the stuffy theatre and headed
for the nearest bars: the hard fact was
the mine was closed and they did not
want to know any more.
Ane telegram came from Mr Clyde
Cameron, M.H.R., a man dedicated
to overthrowing the present leadership of
the Australian Workers’ Union of which
he was once a member. Cameron, the
ALP member for Hindmarsh, South
Australia, formed the Council for Mem-
bership Control of the AWU based at
Broken Hill. This organisation has been
denounced by the union as being
“bogus”. Support also came from the
Broken Hill Barrier Industrial Council,
a body which split from the AWU and
the Workers’ Industrial Council, the
miners’ body at Broken Hill.
The miners in the crowd cheered
when the Communist Mr F. Thompson
(the Northern District secretary of the
Amalgamated Engineering Union) said
that a nation-wide appeal for funds was
about to be launched. The meeting re-
affirmed its earlier five-point plan for
the settlement in one motion and as the
show of hands was being taken, the Mt
Isa Trades and Labor Council president,
Mr J. McMahon, smiled as he said: “If
any man intends to raise his hand against
this motion I will not be responsible for
saving him.” There were no dissenters.
The five-point plan is the reinstate-
ment of Mackie (who was fired by the
Mines on October 23 for being absent
from work the previous day after being
refused leave); a 25 per cent increase in
contract rates and a complete re-exam-
ination of the contract system; a wage
increase of £4; the removal of the bonus
clause from the Industrial Conciliation
and Arbitration Act which allows the
State Industrial Commission to reduce
the bonus but not increase it and recog-
nition of the Mt Isa Trades and Labor
Council as the negotiating body in the
dispute (which at present is not recog-
nised by the Mines).
Mackie also at the meeting sought to
declare the mine black. (An interjector:
“Why make it black, the company has
already done so.”) But Mackie knew that
such a move would jeopardise social
service payments and he let the motion
drop.
From the time the dispute began on
August 24, Mackie has dominated the


BOTTLED BY THE WINEGROWERS, COONAWARRA ESTATE LTD.
Si
\
's
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CABERNET
VINTAGE 1957
AUSTRALIAN CLARET NET 1 PINT t EL. OUNCES
An Estate wine of S. WYNN & CO. P/L
men and has won their allegiance, though
this is waning now the mine has closed.
The dispute has resolved itself into a
fight between Mackie with his militant
supporters and the Australian Workers’
Union. Suddenly both the town and the
mine became very unimportant and the
AWU became Mackie’s target.
Mackie’s goal is to overpower the
AWU (which is anti-Communist and sup-
ports arbitration) and the arbitration
system. For a while it was obvious the
union was “going under” (the men re-
member the 1961 dispute when the mine
closed its gates for eight weeks and the
AWU could not afford to keep the men
on relief payment and subsequently re-
commended they return to work. As
one unionist said: “They sold us down
the river.”)
Slowly, but noticeably, support is re-
turning to the AWU now that the Indus-
trial Commission upheld the union’s
appeal against the rejection of the £4 a
week wage increase claimed under the
Mt Isa Mines Award. Yet only the Sun-
day before, when the miners defied the
Nicklin Government’s order for them to
return to work, three AWU officials were
howled down at a public meeting. The
officials —the State president, Gerry God-
ing, the Northern District Committee
secretary, K. Costello, and the Mt Isa
organiser, F. Sergeant—were not given a
chance. Their arrival at the meeting
brought immediate catcalls and as they
left the miners leapt from their seats
jeering.
When Goding rose to open the meet-
ing he was slow-handclapped into silence.
Just as they were leaving, Goding declar-
ed the close of the official AWU meet-
ing. Nonetheless it carried on under the
chairmanship of Mackie.
As slowly as the support is returning
to the union, Mackie is realising it and
has become understandably worried. His
attitude toward the Pressmen in the town
has changed completely and in several
cases, knowing the value of a good
Press, has apologised to journalists he
had been short with. (He used to refer to
one conscientious reporter named Swin-
burn as Swine-Born.)
Whether Mackie is the key-man be-
hind the dispute or an unwitting stooge
for the Communist Party, whose in-
fluence in the town is very evident, his
tactics have been such that he could not
have served the party better than if he
had accepted a blueprint from them.
Much Communist propaganda has
been distributed throughout the Isa. One
was printed on red paper and directed at
the women of the town. “Your menfolk
have embarked on a just, decent and in-
telligent action which could be likened
to the struggle of 2000 years ago when a
union man named Christ was hung on a
cross for daring to face up against the
usurers and exploiters of that time, the
Asarcoes, the Government Caesars and
their lackeys.”
Directing its attention to the miners,
the pamphlet said: “Ever get on those
shift bosses, foremen, and sundry other
staff stooges, scuttling like scared rabbits
when Catfish or the Boy-wonder sneaks
in the back way. Where is the proud heri-
tage of the fiercely independent Aussie
who won world fame through two world
wars for having the guts to tell their
superior officers to go jump into the
latrine?
“Are we going to be forced like poor
simple sheep to obey the barking of hypo-
crite judges, the lackeys of the fat-gutted
bosses? Are scabby-looking insignificant
shift bosses going to be allowed to emas-
culate us?”
It continues: “How about that little
gentleman on 8 level from one of the
Baltic countries who we gave a home
and the proud title of Australian citizen
to when his own homeland was overrun
alternatively by Fascist and Communist
dictators alike. Which one of these dic-
tatorships is he subscribing to now when
he stands over the Australian demanding
a ‘cut-shift’ or ‘the smelters’. What of
the fences, locks, patrols of security
police who now only need jackboots,
sidearms and swastika armbands to com-
plete the picture of MlM’s suspicion
and distrust of its workers.”
This is the sort of material the miners
have been readily digesting until now.
Mackie took advantage of the legally in-
volved situation which very few miners
can understand, let alone interpret. The
men themselves were lost and naturally
when they sought guidance Mackie was
there. Some prominent businessmen in
Mt Isa who are known to be Communists
or Communist sympathisers are giving
Mackie backing as well as financial sup-
port. This group has even guaranteed his
wages as from Monday.
TUST what eventual effect the closure
** will have on the 16,000, but slowly
dwindling population mining settlement,
is difficult to gauge. By last week it is
known that 1200 workers had left the
Isa to seek employment elsewhere in the
State. Unless the dispute is resolved with-
in the next few days and the mine re-
opened early in the New Year many
more, including family men, have indi-
cated they will follow. As one miner said:
“Copper and lead will always be in the
ground with the mine closed but there
won’t be bread in our kids stomachs.”
The Mines will have a mammoth task
on its hand in replacing the workers who
have already left. This is not made any
the easier with a 52 per cent work force
turnover yearly. The production and ex-
pansion programmes have been put back
but at this stage the actual delay has not
been assessed. The main effects of the
closure is undoubtedly the fact that 3000
men, both at the Isa and at the copper
refinery in Townsville, are out of work.
They will lose about £200,000 a week in
wages while the Mines will lose £500,000
a week in revenue from copper, lead and
zinc. The Queensland Railways’ losses of
revenue will more than double the
£60,000 a week lost at present on the
formerly prosperous Townsville -Mt
Isa section and Australia’s copper users
will be forced to pay at least 50 per cent
more because copper is being imported
at more than £6OO a ton compared with
the local price of £340. Australia will
lose overseas funds from these purchases
and will also lose export earnings at the
rate of more than £500,000 a week.
Sixteen weeks ago there was apparent
justice in the men’s claim for a wage in-
crease; it could have been easily solved,
but with the Mackie intervention the
crisis took a new direction. Unless the
Mine maintains a steady hand and the
AWU shows great strength and unity the
Communist attempt to upset industry in
Queensland, and indeed Australia, will
succeed.


A Ride on the Wild Mouse
Luna Park...just for fun
By CHARLES HIGH AM
The face is 35 feet high, a cross
between a child’s picture-book
version of the sun and a wide-eyed,
moronic glutton. It is starkly pale,
fashioned from plaster and chicken-wire,
its bald head sprouting a forest of
pointed blades. Above it incongruously
flutter the Union Jack and the Australian
flag, tattered and torn by age. Its teeth
—l3 incisors and one molar—are made
of glass and wire and appear to be in
need of a broom-sized toothbrush. It
has no jaw. Above it loom faintly
Oriental towers, and its eyes are a
piercing blue, surrounded by foot-long
stockades of rubber eyelash. It is beard-
less, and its sex presumably is masculine,
but its look is eunuchoid. It is sur-
prisingly clean.
The Luna Park face is one of the few
inspired touches of the Sydney skyline,
sadly unsung by our architectural
writers. And Luna Park itself, after this
uniquely splendid entrance, does not dis-
appoint. Only the pessimistic rain-proof
awnings down its central ramp give a
prosaic touch to the madness of the
scene. To the right is the shabby rem-
nant of a Disney-like group of figures:
at once the correct note of seediness is
struck. A little farther down there’s the
entrance, topped by a single, huge, white-
painted steel skeleton, to Hell’s Rail-
ways, which stops at Horrible Hollow,
Hangman’s Hill, Vampire Valley, Suicide
Siding, Jittery Junction, Creepy Creek,
Goofy Gorge and Ghastly Gulch.
Inside, the cramped railway swings
around curves, with piercing screams,
cackles, roars and groans echoing through
the plaster landscape, face-brushing cob-
webs, cloths, clawing hands making the
swaying lovers in the carriages cling
more determinedly together. The River
Caves are less well-done, not quite
evoking the sense of imitation, sub-
tropical glamor they aim for. But the
huge fun-house at the end of the ramp is
very successful: a massive monument to
the ingenuity of Luna Park’s creator,
David Atkins.
Atkins, a former “carny” operator
who had a show at Port Pirie, South
Australia, began by establishing an
amusement park at Manly with Aus-
tralia’s largest ferris wheel. Later, he
built another at Glenelg. Then, in the
early 19305, he began looking around
for a suitable site in Sydney, settling
finally on the spot where the Dorman
Long workshops still stood under the
shadow of the Harbor Bridge. By
March, 1935, men swarmed over the
site, transforming it in six months. . .
Luna Park, few people realise, has a
predecessor, the marvellous Wonderland
City at Tamarama. In the early 1900 s
showman William Anderson built Kat-
zenjammer Castle, the Helter Skelter, the
Hall of Laughter, the Box Ball Alley,
the Fun Factory and the Maze on the
Tamarama cliffs, and showed American
films in a hall built in imitation of a rail-
way carriage. By 1907 he was staging
a play about Ned Kelly (in which the
Glenrowan Hotel was burned down
every night), balloon journeys and para-
chute jumps. A parson married a couple
on an elephant’s back. But an airship
trip to the beach ended at one stage with
the balloon’s collapse and the mass rescue
of the occupants from the surf. And
despite Anderson's famous troupe of
dancing ducks, cats which jigged to rag-
time and a musical mule, Wonderland
City finally flopped.
Luna Park never equalled Wonderland
City’s glory. Its best period was the
early part of the war, and just before,
when there were mardi gras nights with
wild dancing under a blaze of Chinese
lanterns, beauty competitions, lady wood-
chopper demonstrations, circuses and
Gretna Green weddings. Atkins, a color-
ful showman of the old school, at one
stage distributed 250,000 free tickets to
children, and 10,000 keys, some of which
could open caskets which contained five-
pound notes. . .
To learn about Luna Park today, I
went to see its present director, Ted
Hopkins, David Atkins’ right-hand man
until Atkins’ death a few years ago. His
office was tucked at the back of a brown,
drab rabbit-warren of rooms, a weird
painting of tropical birds above the
central staircase. Smallish, tough and
brisk, Hopkins operates a staff of 170
people; he himself works from nine in
the morning until 12 at night.
“I did the electricity for this place in
six weeks,” he said matter-of-factly.
“There are 40,000 light-bulbs, and an
electricity bill of £lBO a week.” (It has
been estimated that Luna Park consumes
as much electricity as the town of
Gundagai). “I remember when I saw
the picture of our big face here at the
front in ‘Life’ magazine. I was in Lon-
don when somebody showed it to me.”
He pulled the picture out of a cupboard.
“Look here, see. Where some of the
spots on the towers above the face are
black. The boys here hadn’t replaced
some of the bulbs. I tell you without a
word of lie, I nearly had a heart attack. ..
“When I did the wiring I had a gang
of 75 electricians —the best men in the
country. It was the Depression and a
good many of them hadn’t had a job
since they did the Harbor Bridge. I
doubt if we could do it today. But then
everyone was glad to have any kind of
a job.
“The design of the settings was done


by a bloke named Brown. He did all
those ungodly things, the face at the
door, the tumblebug, the beetle’s face ...
the Tarzan set in the River Caves, the
gigantic pelican . . .
“Temperamental he was, too, like so
many artists. But I don’t suppose you’d
know about that. One of the first four
artists in the whole country, I’d say. The
basic ingredients of this place are the
Merry-Go-Round, the Ghost Train, the
River Caves, Funland, the Cha-Cha, the
Flying Saucer. Our big dipper is every
foot of 60 feet at its highest point. But”
his eyes gleamed sharply “the
greatest attraction of all is the Wild
Mouse! I went all over the world to get
the witch’s scream, the ghost’s cackle and
the lion’s roar for Hell’s Railways . . .
But the Wild Mouse is the best thing I
ever got. . .”
Safe as houses
T had visions of a gigantic animal which,
A perhaps, gave the time of day,
but Hopkins silenced me. “No, it isn’t
an animal. It’s the greatest single attrac-
tion we’ve ever had. It's a small switch-
back, but there’s no thrill like it. Why,
at one stage the damned thing goes
around on two wheels . . . two wheels!”
I asked what speed it went at. Hop-
kins looked gloomy for a moment.
“We’ell, only 20-30 miles an hour. But
it feels like more. Why don’t you come
with somebody else’s wife and find out?”
Hopkins paused for a moment. “Of
course it’s as safe as houses. We put
an aeroplane safety belt on people in the
Wild Mouse. You can’t do better than
that, can you . . . ?
“I tell you, people want to be put up-
side down, shaken inside out and thrown
around . . . that’s what they pay for and
that’s what we give them. In the early
fifties we brought Berosini, Donny Webb
and Dixie Lee. Berosini was the greatest
attraction in the world. He stood on his
head in an iron ring on a 145-foot pole.
The pole swayed 40 feet either way.”
(Berosini was the great-grandson of Blon-
din.) “Donny Webb dived from an 80-
foot pole into a small tank.” (On one
occasion, a tricky Sydney westerly
almost carried him outside the tank.)
“Dixie Lee was an acrobat.” (She posed
on a swinging ladder suspended 40 feet
in the air.) “But these great artists—
who cost us more than £12,000 to bring
into the country were a flop . . . when
people saw them perform they just looked
. . . and afterward I had to lead the
clapping . . .
“Audiences want to participate when
they come to Luna Park. Come, I'll show
you a popular attraction to participate
in . ..” We crossed the central promen-
ade to a small, painted, wooden house
with daubs on the walls and an imitation
fireplace. With a colleague of Hopkins’,
I sat on a bench in the house held in by
an iron bar. Outside now, Hopkins be-
gan fiddling with some controls. Back
inside, he began pulling at a lever. “Now
don't worry, all that's going to happen is
that you’re going to turn upside down,”
he said consolingly. “Now wait a minute,
this is a bit stiff . . .” Suddenly the door
was shut, all air on a hot afternoon cut
off. The floor began to swing away.
“Just let me get the mechanism right
... I don't want it to jam with you
upside down ... It isn't you that turns
upside down, it's the house. Do you
realise that it, not you, executes a com-
plete circle . . . you remain exactly where
you are . . . ?”
Later, as we walked over to the Wild
Mouse, he ran on. “I tell you, most
people like to be part of things at Luna
Park. Apart from Berosini, Donny Webb
and Dixie Lee we had a man in a
strait-jacket who was set on fire, a
bloke who got into a milkcan filled with
water, and was shut in, and freaks, but
nobody cared . . .
“I say to you, if we ran a sideshow . . .
put in the legless man, the one-armed
spider, it wouldn't be worth a frank-
furt . . .” And, rather sadly, Mr Hop-
kins climbed into his car and drove me
to my bus-stop.
Wrestling: No Feathers
or Fancy Stuff
By HUGH CURNOW
you know,” asked Mr James
I 8 Barnett, the manager of the pro-
fessional wrestlers who are now
notching up TV ratings, “that last Wed-
nesday we had 5000 people in Brisbane’s
Festival Hall? That's the record for a
wrestling crowd up there. And last week
in Sydney we had 12,000 at the Stadium
in one night. That’s a £9OOO house. And
just last year they told me that pro wrest-
ling played to only £250 houses in Aus-
tralia! You might say that we’ve given
wrestling a real jab in the arm in this
country.”
How? “By doing away with the gim-
micky wrestlers, the Gorgeous Georges,
and using only athletic wrestlers.” He
ordered a club sandwich and added:
“The days of peroxided, perfume-sprayed
wrestlers are gone. The public wants to
see real athletes perform these days.
None of my boys, you'll notice, is fat.”
The biggest of his boys present at the
luncheon table, Walter (“Killer”) Kowal-
ski, paused between mouthfuls of his
vegetarian food to blink both eyes at
once. The Kowalski blink is a notice-
able thing with him. It is not just a
fast flick of the eyelashes but a drawing
together of the eyebrows and a massive
creasing of the forehead followed by a
thumping together of the eyelids accom-
panied by a swift baring of teeth and
staccato flaring of the nostrils. It hap-
pened about once every five minutes, and
he stopped talking while he did it.
Between blinks he told us that he was
not named after the Marlon Brando role
in “A Streetcar Named Desire”. “Kowal-
ski is my real name and my people are
of Polish extraction,” he said. “I am 33
years old and a vegetarian by choice. I
was born in Windsor, Ontario, and went
to college to study electrical engineering.
I was twenty years of age and earning
the equivalent of £25 a week in your
money when a wrestling entrepreneur dis-
covered me at the YMCA. Ever since the
age of 13 I had been doing my own calis-
thenics - yes, that’s spelt with a ‘c’ not
a ‘k’, as is ‘cardiograph’. I don’t know
why the US Navy calls an electro-cardio-
graph an EKG.”
“Perhaps they get the ‘k’ from the
original Greek from which the word
‘cardio’ is taken,” suggested ex-wrestler
Sam Menacker. [The Greek word is
KARDIO.]
Kowalski nodded and went on: “Any-
way, I soon found that with my build
and my diet and my wrestling capabilities
I could earn a lot more money being a
professional wrestler than an electrical
engineer so Eve been doing this ever
since.” Standing six feet and seven inches
in his wrestling boots, Kowalski said he
weighs 19st. 21b. “And there’s not a sker-
rick of fat on him,” commented Mr Bar-
nett. “Also I don’t drink or smoke,” said
Kowalski, and then came the best blink
yet.
“Buddy” Austin, who looks more like
a giant-sized Raphael cherub than any-
thing else and talks with the now-
familiar “wrestlers’ whisper”, said his
real name is Austin W. Rogers, his
wife’s name is Carmelita and though
she does some Spanish dancing she hasn’t
been doing much lately, what with their
baby due in January.
“I am a happily married man who in-
vests wrestling money in real estate,” he
told us. Does he make his own decisions
about what to invest in? “Well, I have a
firm of accountants and an attorney who
advise me, but I keep my eyes peeled for
good investments. I was born in San
Francisco and served in Korea with the
Navy after I left high school at the age
of 17. I am 32 years old and I have


GREETINGS
From Swain , Middy ,
Collette and Cullen .
. . and a Happy New Year to
you, too."
"/ want a nuclear-free Pacific
"This one not only walks, talks, cries, drinks and
sleeps, but she also wants another little doll to
play with!"
"Why drag it out over twelve days? Signed: Your
true love."


'
HI
■
MAC BAREN’S FINEST
The tobacco that keeps the
promise of its “bouquet”
PLUM CAKE
Open a tin and the aroma of 6 different
tobaccos dominated by a golden ripe Virginia
promises you an extravagant smoking pleasure.
MAC BAREN’S
PLUMCAKE
Imported especially for the pipe-
smoking connoisseur. 2 oz. tin 8/8
SA9B
been wrestling since I was a kid. Amateur
stuff at first, then, after Joe Maclewicz
discovered me at the YMCA, I turned
pro.” Mr Barnett said Austin is one of
the USA's top drawcards in the wrestling
business. “No fat on him, either,” he
added. Austin, who is six feet four inches
tall, weighs 18st. 61b.
We mentioned that the one Australian
wrestler in Mr Barnett’s stable, Larry
O’Day, looked exceptionally trim and fit.
“He’ll get bulky like us before long,” said
Austin. "He's only 21, remember.”
The rest of the wrestling team—four
Americans, a Canadian, an Italian and a
Greek—make up a “good, composite
troupe”, Mr Barnett said. Just like a
touring theatrical company? “No —not
at all. These boys are genuine athletes.
The old days of rehearsed shows, the
Chief Little Wolf era of feathers and
fancy stuff, can be forgotten.”
Sam Menacker, who interviews the
wrestlers after their televised bouts, in-
sisted that not one word of the interviews
is rehearsed. “It’s all ad lib stuff. Yes,
even when they say ‘l'll kill him!’ and all
that. These boys have been pro wrestling
for nearly 15 years. They can ad lib
with the best of them. Besides, when they
get real mad they’ll say almost anything.”
Menacker said he could recall
wrestling with Big Chief Little Wolf in
Melbourne more than 12 years ago.
“Poor guy has had a stroke and now is
just a shadow of what he was. I wasn’t
one of the fancy mob of wrestlers even
then. I was always the athletic prototype.
1 guess you could say that I’m an ex-uni-
versity man but I’m not a graduate. I
studied abnormal psychology at a Man-
hattan branch of New York University
before I went into the Army as a buck
private and came out as a major. Then I
wrestled for 21 years. Nowadays the
average wrestler doesn’t last that long
but I know one, Ed (“Strangler”) Lewis,
who was 55 before he quit and he still
looks only 55 though he is in his seven-
ties. My wife is June Byers, the world’s
champion woman wrestler, and she is
really something to see in action.”
Mr Barnett said what interested him
about the Australian audiences, that are
now turning up in greater numbers at
wrestling matches than at boxing, is that
there are more men than women. “In
America it's mostly women who go for
wrestling. Here it’s the men. I think it
must be because our boys are real wrest-
lers, not phonies. Men don't come back
again to see phonies. Of course, the
essence of star-attraction is that an actor
must appeal equally to both sexes. Albert
Finney is a case in point. His perform-
ance in ‘Luther’ definitely John Os-
borne's worst play had everyone fas-
cinated. He lifted the whole thing to great
heights. I look for star-attraction in my
wrestlers, too.”
Buying a Dog
By PAT FLOWER
First you decide what kind, like
mongrel. Then you consider where
to get it. You ask owners of dogs.
They all advise you. They all know
best. Every dog-owner is browned-off
about other dog-owners and their dogs.
And pretty disparaging of you, like
whether you’re fit to have a dog. Nobody
inquires whether a dog's fit to have you.
“Be nice for the kiddies’’, they say. So
you leave these abstractions aside and
you and he settle down to a nice cosy
assessment of kennels, all of which you
have ruined your eyes for ever by looking
up in that tiny print they have in the
telephone directory.
Next day, after not speaking for 24
hours, you go on with this argument
about where to get it. And then in the
paper you see (or he does, being alerter)
where the Dogs’ Home is having a bar-
gain sale of dogs, the news embedded in
a heartrending suet of how they'll have
to be destroyed if you don’t go and buy
them all up.
So you go there during this bargain
week and get caught up in bestial excite-
ment. You see a dear little fellow (a
girl) in a cage with three big dogs taking
its biscuit from it, and your sense of
fair play rises up to choke any judgment
you had left and you say, “That’s the


PS I , # :
H ! 2 ' J
tl
■
You are welcomed as a friend
at Tokyo’s Marunouchi Hotel
Coming to Japan ? People who seem to
know you await your visit at the Marunouchi
Hotel. We've had years of experience in
making Australian guests comfortable.
Conveniently located one block from
Tokyo Central Station, we offer the quiet
hospitality you've told us you like. Fine
food and modern facilities are only part
of the story.
You'll be pleased to find large-size beds,
individual air conditioning controls and
many other extras in your room. Come
sample the essence of Japanese "shibui"
at the Marunouchi Hotel.
Management: T. KOBAYASHI & SON
Cable: MARUHOTE TOKYO Tel: 231 0271
Ofi/tflMHOUiclti
Jhtel
one”, pay your pound (isn’t it cheap?),
find out about needles and operations,
buy a collar and leash and, wet-lapped,
take it home with your headache which
isn’t going to get any better for some
days. The rest of that day you have
this new puppy of uncertain age and
parentage, puddles, an electric storm and
the ironing to do.
You thrash out with him the beast’s
sleeping arrangements. Next day you
go to town and spend a fortune on fancy
foods, a rubber mouse that tinkles, balls,
bells, baskets, biscuits, baths, books and
rubber bones, powder, soap, brushes,
combs, tablets, ticks, towels, rugs, ken-
nels, fleas, chains, extra collar and leash,
meat, meat, meat and a pottery dish
with DOG on it. Then you buy a new
car so the dog will be more comfortable
travelling. Finally you get some kiddies
so you have some for the dog to be nice
for.
You lose a doormat, some of his
socks, a rug, several precious plants.
You spend the next two or three
months (before the operation) warding
off male dogs who don’t seem to know,
as you do, that they’re not attracted by
a bitch till she’s roughly six months old
or more (note the word “roughly”).
These male dogs appear all of a sudden
out of crevices, through brick walls, jum-
ping out of taxis, buses, laundry vans
and tree-tops.
You have conversations you never
had before. Like you say, horrified:
“You mean it sleeps on the bed?” eyeing
with distaste a fat half-something-or-
other.
“Anywhere. We had to. It dug up
the flowers, lovely they were, we put
wire up but it got through that. I’m
always buying new bedspreads.”
“Does it actually swallow them?”
“Oh no, it has plenty to eat. Just
half a pound of meat a day, at night-
time.”
“Ours has gone from three to two
little somethings a day.”
“You don’t want to give it too much.”
“We’re going by the Penguin book.”
“Wouldn’t a Dog book be better?”
“No, no, the Penguin paperback on
dogs.”
“Just half a pound of meat a day.
Perhaps just a few scraps from my plate
at lunch time; he’s at work, see, and
I’m there all alone and she sits and
waits. You can’t resist them, can you?
Loves chocolates. You’ve only got to
rustle paper and she knows it’s choco-
lates. Loves ice-cream. Yours looks
alert.”
“She never has chocolates,” you say.
”We love our dog, she’s just like a
child. We went for a lovely cruise last
Christmas, very expensive, and boarded
her. When the man took her we cried
for an hour and worried about her all
through the islands. Just couldn’t enjoy
it. We’ll never leave her again. I don’t
like those dalsatians, do you?”
“I think they’re rather fun.”
“What’s yours?”
“Half foxy, half border collie, half
kelpie, half alsatian, half dalmatian,
half greyhound and half whippet.”
“Really?” she says.
The prepared packet foods are in-
teresting. We've got a lot of them. We
take them down and dust them now
and again. Patently popular, they’re
uniformly shunned by our little pet.
Dogs who eat these foods (evidence
proves) are superior in every way to
dogs who just eat meat and fish and
eggs and stuff. Dogs who eat these
foods entirely are well-balanced, evenly-
developed, brighter, more active (can
that be?), have better coats, stronger,
whiter teeth and weigh what they should.
You take your dog aside and talk to it,
man to man. You tell it about dog re-
search, about all the scientific labora-
tories working day after day, year in,
year out, with one aim in view: its
health and happiness. You show it pic-
tures of happy, laughing doggies posing
(probably without payment) to have
their likenesses reproduced in this
library of pamphlets and leaflets. You
show it their big, white, sharp-pointed
teeth. It looks sly and bites you.
Last experienced thoughts: Decide
first whether you really want a dog at
all. Have you a dog-having tempera-
ment? Can you bear to have a dog
jump in the bedroom window at 4 a.m.
just as you’re gluttonously enjoying the
second hour of sleep you and your cap-
sules have fought for? Can you bear
to see it just drop off any old time and
where while you fight for a quarter of
man’s minimum needs? (These are
personal questions; you'll have to think
up your own.)
Then there are other, deeper, darker
things:
“Ah, look,” he says, all compassion,
“she's sleeping, she must be tired.”
“What about me?” you say in a bitter
mutter. “Who woke who at 4 a.m.?
Or whom?”
And:
“Poor little thing,” he says, “aren’t
you going to take her for a walk?”
“I’ve only,” you say with open venom,
“been standing on my feet for the last
four hours making that apple thing you
love so much and” (an addition) “just
take for granted as though it’s your
right.” Another addition: “Let alone
the washing-up.”
Dogs!


AROUND MELBOURNE
You Need More Than a “D” in Toorak
nPHESE past 20 years there hasn’t been
a real estate man in town who hasn’t
had his dreams of glory over “Nareeb”.
Many an enthusiastic young fellow has
gone in there and pounded the big
knocker on the big front door to expound
on the unique opportunities for the
estate and what could be done by sub-
dividing the area into a series of OYOs.
The reception always was courteous but
distant.
Nareeb is the last of the big Toorak
estates, 5i acres in Kooyong Road, right
in the Rolls-Royced heart of SE2. The
place was a mystery. Few people knew
anything about it except that it was occu-
pied by Miss Gertrude Simmons, 80,
and Miss Nellie Simmons, 79, who had
been there since 1906. Gertrude Sim-
mons died last March and on Thursday,
November 19, Colin Anderson, of R. T.
Edgar and Son, pulled off the big coup,
then as usual went off to have dinner
at the Hotel Australia. The price was
never revealed, but it was more than
£210,000.
Last week the Nareeb estate was
thrown open to the public by the
National Trust for 3s. a head, prior to
the auction. Toorak’s frustration of 80
years, the decades of waiting for a peep
inside at last was released. It was im-
possible to park within a quarter of a
mile in Kooyong Road, and it was gener-
ally considered that the cars parked were
a credit to the district. At one stage
there were 12 Rolls-Royces, 10 Mark X
Jaguars and two Daimlers. In two days
15,000 people went through. Your cor-
respondent could hardly wait to get out
there.
It was at 9.30 a.m. that your corre-
spondent went through the massive iron
gates for the first time and there round
the bend behind 20ft rhododendrons and
30ft-high camellias was the massive,
hideous old house. It has the complete
array of 1888 cornices, the urns across
the roof and the best in Victorian stucco.
But to go inside was an extraordinary
experience, not like entering a museum,
more like being part of an ancient silent
movie. Here nothing had changed since
the days of Octavius Beale. The house
was lit entirely by gas. (Electricity had
never been put on.) The original furni-
ture and much of the original carpet was
still on the floor. A 1920 7-passenger
Rolls-Royce tourer was up on blocks
out in the stables.
On one wall there was a framed copy
of the photographs of Melbourne as pre-
sented to the Duke and Duchess of Corn-
wall and York by the Old Colonists’
Association in 1901. There were five
bedrooms and a living-room for the
servants and outside the kitchen there
was the call box which listed hall, bed-
rooms 1,2, 3,4, 5,6, drawing-room,
dining - room, breakfast - room, study,
dressing-room, school-room, cortile and
bathroom. The kitchen was dark and
forbidding, a perfect antique. There a
great black fire stove and an equally
black gas stove, which may well have
been the first ever produced. However,
there was a touch of nobility about the
plumbing. The Simmonses had this done
in 1906 at a cost of £5OO. There were
three bathrooms all with deep baths sur-
rounded by walnut. The great brass
taps looked as if they had been designed
for filling the Hume reservoir.
Everything was all out, ready for
auction including books for sale and
photograph albums. There was “Uncle
Tom’s Cabin”, “Mrs Beeton”, “Every-
body’s Medical Adviser”, “Pictures from
the German Fatherland” and “The
Biography of Florence Nightingale”. The
photograph albums had pictures of Miss
Nellie Stewart and Miss Maud Jeffries.
Shots of Melbourne included the Hotel
Windsor when it was a dignified temper-
ance house and called The Grand Hotel.
On auction day Nareeb was bulging
with people. There were faces peering
out behind every potted palm and aspi-
distra. In the main hall, dimly lit by
gaslight, Graham Joel announced that he
would do something unprecedented for
an auctioneer—he would ask people to
have a look to satisfy their curiosity and
GO AWAY.
The thing to do that day was to be
able to say that one had bought some-
thing from Nareeb and the prices were
an auctioneer’s dream. The Rolls
sold for £2300, one gas chandelier went
for 350 guineas, the grandfather clock
for £4OO, the hip bath for £lO, the iron-
ing machine £lO, and an old hand-
pumped vacuum cleaner called “Lazy
Daisy”, £3. Some potted palms and two
aspidistras also fetched £3 and even a
threadbare carpet on the floor of the
stables brought 10 shillings.
A woman said: “How do you like
that? If it were not part of Nareeb,
they’d pay to cart it away.” Then at
6.45 p.m. an old hand cart sold for £22.
Prices held beautifully and the total came
to over £lB,OOO.
The wreckers move in just after
Christmas when Nareeb will be divided
into 23 allotments, and so the last of the
great Toorak estates will have disap-
peared. The National Trust gave Nareeb
a “D” classification which means “inter-
esting, preservation desirable”, but to
survive in hungry Toorak a mere “D” is
not good enough.
BATMAN
Tanner
"It's no good, darling! We can't go on meeting like this."


OVERSEAS
1964: Year of New Rulers
Where every screw is loose
By SALVADOR de MADARIAGA
On the world stage nearly all the
characters have changed in the
autumn; and those that have not
seem to have adopted new ways. The
most dramatic disappearance is that of
Nikita Khrushchev.
It is almost certain that the crisis of
power in Moscow is not over yet. Practi-
cally nothing is seen or heard about the
new men; and, in the circumstances, no
significance can be attached to the fact
that little or no change is observable in
the policy of the Soviet Union. Two
facts, however, may be taken for granted.
The first is that any agreement which
might be achieved with the leaders of the
Soviet Union must of necessity be as pre-
carious as their own leadership. If
Khrushchev’s fall proves anything, it is
the practical impossibility of coming to
any deal worth the ink with a State that
does not rest on a free public opinion.
The second fact that may confidently
be laid down is that, though the foreign
policy of the Soviet Union may change,
it can do so only between fairly narrow
limits. It may grow more defiant of the
West, but not so much as to risk a
nuclear war, and therefore any war. It
may grow stiffer towards the satellites,
but not so as to push them towards seek-
ing the West even more so than they are
inclined to do of their own accord. It
may grow less or more inimical to the
Chinese Popular Republic, but that tug
of war between the two Communist
giants will not end in a total break.
Now, this fact that the lane of foreign
policy is nowadays narrow and leaves
but little choice is general. It does not
obtain only in the case of the Soviet
Union, but also in that of a very impor-
tant power; and therefore it determines
the whole situation. It is perhaps best
illustrated by the record of the new Brit-
ish Government. Leaving aside all inter-
party recriminations, this record shows,
in the imposition of the 15 per cent sur-
charge, the deep-down subconscious in-
sularity of the Labor Party and of its
leader; but also, in the way the episode
developed, that both party and leader
realise the inevitable fact that Britain
is in Europe, indeed in the world. The
two or three socialist war cries the Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer uttered, as soon
as he felt in the saddle, were promptly
silenced by a golden lasso of three thou-
sand million of foreign money.
If the several actions of Mr Wilson
and of his Government are analysed
whether it be his policy towards Rho-
desia or South Africa or towards NATO,
to the Concord project or to West Ger-
many and Berlin a pattern will be dis-
cerned bringing out the same zig-zag be-
tween the innate party political trends
and the bounds and bourns imposed on
the Government and on its leader by the
nature of things and their conjuncture.
The same law will sooner or later
determine the policy of the American
President. His overwhelming victory is
in itself proof that even the all-powerful
people of the United States cannot
capriciously follow any extremist that
fancies himself a statesman. President
Johnson’s election means that the people
of his country are fully aware of the rails
which limit their movements Right and
Left. Elated by his victory though he is,
President Johnson is too expert a
politician not to realise that even he, the
most powerful man in the world, can
only act by means of his limitations and
not ignoring or breaking them; and we
may expect that he will soon discover
that a durable agreement with Moscow
is just not on the lane of policy which
circumstances open for him. Vietnam
and the Congo will be two significant
arguments in this process of clarification.
VText to him, the most powerful man in
the world may well be today General
de Gaulle; not intrinsically, but because
he is abler than others to use whatever
power he wields. But even he cannot
force things out of their pattern. It is
no lack of respect for this great man,
it is indeed the very reverse to say that
his pressure for securing a certain price
for German wheat does not carry much
conviction. It is hard to see why the
man who wrote superbly “The sword is
the axle of the world” should be so
passionately interested in the plough.
What is more likely is that, in pressing
for lower wheat prices in Germany, he
is carrying on a tactical operation, the
strategy of which he keeps to himself as
a good commander-in-chief. But then,
what? Since his famous expulsion of
Britain in January, 1962, he has been
suspected of harboring designs against
the very idea of Europe. It is plain that
this is not so. President de Gaulle knows,
perhaps better than most, that Europe is
the primary necessity for every European
nation, since no European nation is any
longer in a position to ensure its own
defence. All he is doing is manoeuvring
within the margin which this narrow lane
allows him so as to ensure as wide a
berth and as dominant a position as he
can for his beloved France in the Europe
that he knows must come.
It is, of course, in the case of the
Federal Republic that the lane is the
narrowest. France, on the one edge, the
United States on the other, reunification
ahead; the Federal Republic is not a car
on a road but a train on a railway. It is
to the credit of her public men that they
have always realised the fact; and the
most they can do is to choose to put their
weight more on the French or on the
American rail, though the wisest of them,
who are not necessarily the oldest, will
insist on an even balance.
The conclusion for an observer whose
main interests are freedom and true
peace (true peace being but another way
of looking at freedom) might appear to
be paradoxical. Narrow though the lane
is, it is not narrow enough, at any rate
for the Western nations. It still enables
every one of them (with the possible
exception of Germany) to wander from
the line of wisdom, waylaid by the
vagaries and caprices, the prejudices and
shortcomings of old-fashioned national-
ism. That the policy of the free world
considered as a whole brings to mind
the working of a machine in which every
screw is loose. It does move, but it is
inefficient and slow, and it wastes a
deplorable amount of energy in internal
friction.
When Dr Soekarno Dies?
By EMERY BARCS
The first official admission in Dja-
karta that President Soekarno is
seriously ill had made the question
of his successor more topical than ever.
Among the various political groups,
which are likely to bid for power after
the autocrat's death, the Army and the
Communists seem to have the best chance
to succeed.
Most observers of the Indonesian
scene seem to hold that the rivalry be-
tween these two forces will inevitably
lead to a clash and that the country’s
future Government will depend upon the
outcome of their struggle. In a con-
vincing analysis just published called
“The Communist Prospects in Indonesia”,
Guy J. Pauker of the Rand Corporation


Y.y<*
V
Wfi
m
Mr. Hiller
and his craft
THE IMPORTANCE OF A NAME
Mr. Ernest Hiller is a craftsman.
He makes suits with more than
ordinary care.
He takes a craftsman’s pride in a
job well done. That’s why you’ll
find his own personal signature on
every suit he makes. It isn’t just
a brand name.
It’s Ernest Hiller’s personal guar-
antee to you.
It means your suit has been
tailored from the very finest fab-
rics. With the care and patience
Mr. Hiller demands.
It means you can buy the
latest international styles
for as little as £25.19.6.
woo
Internationally stytea suits, sportcoats and trousers
at better stores in the City, Suburbs and Country.
gives a different prognosis. He thinks
than the patient and skilful political
manoeuvre of the Indonesian Commun-
ist leaders has made the party so ac-
ceptable to such a variety of people that
the Communists have a good chance of
stepping into power without any blood-
shed.
Dr Pauker, a Rumanian-born Ameri-
can citizen, belongs to that generation
of Eastern European intellectuals who
lived their formative years under the
mounting pressure of Rightist totalitarian-
ism. He saw in his own country how
General Antonescu—imitating the ex-
amples of Mussolini and Hitler—man-
aged to climb to power quite legally by
persuading a decisive sector of the pub-
lic that his regime alone could solve the
country’s problems. This experience
may have increased the author’s sensi-
tivity to similar stratagems. He sounds
most convincing when he points out the
similarities between the tactics of the
Italian Communists (whose triple aim
is to make themselves respectable, accept-
able and indispensable) and the Indo-
nesian PKI leaders.
npHE Communist Party of Indonesia
(PKI) is today the largest outside
the Communist orbit. Its rise since 1952
when it was a discredited, politically
bankrupt movement of a few thousand
members has been spectacular. The party
itself now claims a membership of
3,000,000. With its front-organisations
it has a following of perhaps 16 million.
If elections were held perhaps one-third
of the voters would back Communist
candidates.
Here are a few comparative figures
about the growth of the party and its
auxiliaries:
PKI 1952 7,910 members
1964 3,000,000
SOBSI (Federation of Labor Unions led
by PKI) 1952 .... 1,561,757 members
1964 .... 3,500,000
GERWANI (Women’s Organisation)
1962 1,125,000 members
1964 1,750,000
BTI (Farmers’ Front)
1953 800,000 members
1964 8,500,000
These official figures have been dis-
puted and some of them are probably
exaggerated. Nevertheless even scaled
down estimates are impressive.
Dr Pauker says that the key to the
success of the Indonesian party must
be found in the intellectual vigor and
political shrewdness of its leaders who
“have motivated and inspired dedicated
cadres able, in turn, to recruit sub-
stantial followings and thus to build
up” an impressive mass party. The
political shrewdness of these leaders
is all the more remarkable because most
of them—including the Secretary Gen-
eral, D. N. Aidit —were not yet 30 when
they took charge of the organisation some
14 years ago.
What Aidit and his collaborators want
to achieve, and what they have achieved
to a large extent, has been the complex
operation of “changing the balance of
forces”. This “involved eliminating or at
least neutralising irreconcilable enemies,
creating an atmosphere in which poten-
tial enemies are at least passively re-
signed to accepting the transfer of power
to Communist hands, inducing lukewarm
friends to lend active support to the
PKI, and having a mass apparatus suffi-
ciently well organised and disciplined to
get an iron grip on state power once
control of the Government is secured”.
Dr Pauker points out that “the very
size of the PKI has become its best
defence”. Although the party still re-
lies on President Soekarno's protection it
has become so big that it cannot be
destroyed without extremely harsh mea-
sures which, in the author’s opinion,
anti-Communist or non-Communist In-
donesians “are not likely to stomach”.
The Communists have gained millions
of friends by doing what should have
been the basic task of every political
party but which no other party undertook
to do: the Communists went to the peas-
ants, taught them, helped them and
organised them.
In the author’s opinion President
Soekarno’s support of the Communists
stems from the party’s undertaking to
support the present regime in Bung
Karno’s lifetime. “By developing in all
their public statements the thesis that
Indonesia’s economic ills are the result
of ‘the remnants of imperialism and
feudalism’, the Communist leaders imply
the blamelessness of the Soekarno
regime.”
But when Soekarno dies? Will the offi-
cers, supported by other anti-Communist
forces —such as the Nationalists and the
religious Moslem Masjumi—step in and
block the Reds’ march to power?
The author is not optimistic. He says
that “the Indonesian officer corps has
been and still appears, at least superfi-
cially, anti-Communist”. But “confidence
in their capacity to govern alone has
never been great among the Indonesian
officers”, and the non-Communist parties
appear less and less attractive associates.
Besides, the Communists wholeheart-
edly support the policy of “confronta-
tion” against Malaysia which is also
ardently embraced by the officers. And
to court religious support Aidit himself
asked party members “to report immedi-
ately to party officials any Communist
conducting anti-religious campaigns” and
promised that the offender would be
promptly expelled from the party.
For these reasons Dr Pauker believes
that “the PKI expects to come to power
by the default of the other elites and
popular acclamation.”


FORUM
The Conscience
of Senator Goldwater
“Anything that outrages Walter Lippmann is liable to please me 99
By MALCOLM MUGGERIDGE
Senator Goldwater’s nomination as
Republican Presidential candidate
automatically transformed his book,
“The Conscience of a Conservative”
(which I see from my copy ran through
no less than twenty editions between
March, 1960, when it was first published,
and November, 1963), from an ideologi-
cal curiosity into a significant political
document. The same sort of thing, as I
well remember, happened with “Mein
Kampf”. One was vaguely aware of its
bizarre contents, and then suddenly they
became not the ravings of a demented
Austrian but the programme of a Ger-
man Government.
Not, let me hasten to add, that I am
one of those who incline toward equating
Senator Goldwater with the late Fuehrer.
The differences between the two (apart
from the fact that the Senator is partly
Jewish, and well content to be so) are
as striking as they are reassuring. A year
or so ago I happened to wake up one
bright autumn morning in Tucson, Ari-
zona, to find myself looking out of my
hotel window straight into the Goldwater
emporium there. The name was not as
famous then as now, but still struck a
chord. I recall reflecting that there was
something about the well-stocked window
display, the seemly postures of the wax
models, which brought comfort to a mind
given to brooding on the manias and in-
anities of politicians. If only Hitler had
inherited such a store in Munich! Then
surely the world would have been spared
some of the more atrocious Nazi ex-
cesses.
In any case, I have to admit that there
are certain aspects of Mr Goldwater’s
triumph at San Francisco last July which
I found highly congenial. Anything which
outrages Mr Walter Lippmann is liable to
please me. Whatever puts the teeth of the
television pundits on edge; which gives
rise to a wailing and a lamentation in our
Printing House, as in yoitr Times Square;
which induces a Reston to lift up mute
hands to high heaven, and an Alsop to
scamper for cover —is to that extent
welcome. The late lamented President
Kennedy (toward whom I managed to
maintain an attitude well this side of
idolatry) was so assiduous in his dealings
with these oracles that one could not but
rejoice when a new star rose in the politi-
cal firmament, however transiently, with-
out taking any account of them at all.
Already I am in the Senator’s debt for
some hearty laughs. The disorder his
nomination by the Republican Party
caused among pollsters and other expert
political soothsayers was wonderful to
behold. Not since General de Gaulle took
over in France has there been such dis-
quiet, if not panic, in their ranks. On that
occasion there was serious talk in Leftist
circles, with a nostalgic glance toward the
30s and the Spanish Civil War. of raising
an International Brigade to frustrate the
anticipated excesses of Algerian colons
and generals red in tooth and claw. No
one has yet suggested, not even in the
“Tribune” or the “New Statesman”, that
this time an International Brigade should
be raised to invade America, capture Mr
Goldwater, and insist on the Republican
Party selecting as its leader Governor
Rockefeller or some other figure more
worthy of being interviewed on BBC pro-
grammes like Panorama, made the sub-
ject of an “Observer” profile, and other-
wise incorporated in our canon of
righteousness and enlightenment.
Short of this, however, reactions were
intense. The London “Times’s” special
man at the San Francisco Convention
wrote about Mr Goldwater as though he
were a Seventh Day Adventist or Je-
hovah’s Witness who had unaccountably
been made an Anglican bishop. One came
away from Leftist cocktail parties fully
expecting to find the fallout had begun
and the streets already running with
Strontium B. Voices on the air and
coming out of the television screen were
grave indeed. If clergymen, when they
besought heaven to save us from war,
pestilence, and sudden death, did not add
the junior Senator from Arizona, their
tone of voice indicated that they might
well have done so.
Mr Goldwater’s political ideas, as set
forth in “The Conscience of a Conserva-
tive”, scarcely support these alarmist atti-
tudes. They are as flat and banal as a
dissertation by a St Louis business execu-
tive to a convention of carbon-paper
manufacturers in Atlantic City. Taxes are
too high; the federal government has
grabbed too much power from the states;
foreign aid should be sparingly disbursed,
and then only to authentically anti-Com-
munist governments (like Chiang Kai-
shek’s, one might reflect); no good pur-
pose is served by negotiating with the
Soviet bloc countries, from whom Ameri-
can diplomatic recognition should be
withdrawn; trade unions are permissible,
but only for negotiations with individual
managements, not on a national scale;
farm subsidies should be abolished, and
the laws of supply and demand allowed
to operate throughout the economy; the
granting of “civil rights” (whatever they
may be; the Senator is by no means cer-
tain) to Negroes by Congressional legis-
lation may conceivably be desirable, but
is clearly unconstitutional, as is federal
participation, financial or otherwise, in
state education; “welfarism” is both prac-
tically inexpedient and morally abhor-
rent. and should be eschewed; with a
ready and plentiful supply of tactical nu-
clear weapons (to procure which no ex-
pense should be spared) America would
be in a position not only to maintain the
international status quo but to carry the
cold war into enemy territory and win it.
There is a kind of glorious audacity
in thus flouting so many powerful elec-
toral interests, like the farmers and the
trade unionists, normally treated with
great ostensible consideration by both
parties. Only the Southern racists would
seem to be in a position to derive much
comfort from the Senator's proposals.
They may well acclaim his assertion that
he is not prepared to impose his own or
any other judgments on “the people of
Mississippi or South Carolina” in- the
knowledge that what the Senator means,
in this context, by “the people” is just
their own antediluvian selves, and the
corrupt, undemocratic Democratic Party
machine they control.
What Mr Goldwater is, in effect, pro-
posing is to return to the pre-New Deal
America; a journey which, even if he
seriously intended to undertake it (as I
take leave to doubt), would come to grief
in the minefields and quicksands lying
between now and then. Laissez-faire
economics at home and isolationism in
foreign policy are just not worth arguing
about, for or against, today. They exist,
if at all, as a cast in the eye of the be-
holder. The venerable Mr Hoover himself


*
m
\ 1111
Wk.
/:
m
%
\
m
Enquire NOW from your local Postmaster
or the Superintendent, Mail Exchange
Branch, in your State capital city.
The Post Office “HOUSEHOLDER”
Mail Service is now offered at 30%
iess than ordinary postage rates.
HOUSEHOLDER" MAIL REALLY
GELS YOUR MESSAGE INTO
EVERY HOME OR OFFICE
We guarantee delivery, with the mail,
to every address in the area you choose.
We'll deliver to any area—from
a few streets, to the whole of Australia.
We’ll tell you exactly how many
homes and businesses in the area you
tell us how many you want covered.
You won’t need address lists.
You won’t have to type addresses.
You just print “Householder” or a
similar title on each article and we
will do the rest.
Australian
P°st
Office


would, I am sure, have hesitated to re-
commend such courses.
If someone as normally astute as Mr
Goldwater saw fit, nonetheless, to
identify himself with attitudes which he
must know to be neither intellectually
valid nor practically expedient, it can
only be because he considered that in the
present American temper a Don Quixote
image was more appealing than the tradi-
tional one of a glad-handing, benevolent,
all-purpose politico such as Mr Nixon
adopted, so nearly with success. Here Mr
Goldwater's calculations may not be so
far astray. For some years now there
has been discernible among the young in
America a mood of romantic conserva-
tism, disconcerting, if not shocking, to the
old subversives from over the ocean like
myself making our weary way from one
lecture podium to another.
And not only in America. Elsewhere,
too, there is a like sense of deep, and
potentially turbulent, disenchantment
with the assumptions of a “liberal” out-
look; above all, with the concept of “pro-
gress” as something which is steadily,
year by year, unfolding like a soap
opera. It afflicts the British Labor Party,
as Mr Harold Wilson is well aware; also
Herr Willy Brandt and his Social Demo-
crats, losing monotonously to those un-
pleasing West German economic miracle-
makers. De Gaulle is a portent the other
way. Who would ever have believed that
the French, of all people, could be in-
duced to accept with little friction the
personal rule of this portentous man of
destiny compared with whom, in certain
respects, Mr Goldwater is a dangerous
radical? Yet they have, and the old
Gauche Raclicale, which governed France
so long and so badly, has disappeared.
For years conservatism has gone on
existing by stealing the clothes of its
progressive opponents. Now that stolen
wardrobe is threadbare, and the only
alternative garments which meet the eye
are some old crinolines and frock-coats
stored away for use as fancy dress. Why
not put them on? It makes a change any-
way. Probably everyone has to some de-
gree experienced the mood of irritation
which fosters such an attitude. The too
shrill voices of progressive women, the
100 thick tweeds and too heavy pipe-
smoke of progressive men; the too thin
beards of progressive youths and the too
tight jeans of progressive girls; excessive
confidence in contraceptives, psychiatry,
education, Adlai Stevenson, wholewheat
bread, and the United Nations. It has all
become a kind of orthodoxy, to which
Senator Goldwater's more antique brand
can be made to seem a possible alterna-
tive. How clever of him (or his speech-
writer) to proclaim his determination to
offer the American electorate a choice,
not an echo. I happened to mention this
astute slogan to Michael Foot, one of
the most agreeable and intelligent of our
Labor Party Leftists. “If only we’d
thought of it!” he murmured enviously.
Naturally, it is Mr Goldwater’s views
on defence and foreign policy elabora-
ted in his “Why Not Victory?” to
which we non-Americans turn with
particular concern. Americans might be
surprised at the number of my fellow-
countrymen, apparently in possession of
their right minds, who are convinced that
he would like to start a nuclear war.
“Why Not Victory?”, in any case,
proves on examination to be a less alarm-
ing document than might have been anti-
cipated. Though the Senator is strong for
victory rather than a detente, he studi-
ously, not to say dishonestly, avoids
specifying how it can be achieved with-
out precipitating a large-scale nuclear
war. Nor is there any question of general
mobilisation; manpower, one gathers, is
to be provided by the Chinese and other
oppressed peoples, who will be happy to
fight, and if necessary die, in an anti-
Communist crusade. Not even to help
the revolting Hungarians would the Sena-
tor have been prepared to commit a
single American soldier. It is liberation
by remote control that he recommends;
Richard Coeur-de-Lion stays at home,
sending his exhortations over the air by
Radio Free Holy Land.
Otherwise, the Senator contents him-
self with repeating all the old Republican
shibboleths about foreign aid, recognition
of Red China, disarmament, and so on,
so vociferously propounded at Conven-
tion time, so muted when there is a Re-
publican administration. My own guess
would be (for what it is worth) that if
Mr Goldwater had been elected Presi-
dent, he would have found himself
irresistibly drawn toward making a so-
called “realistic” deal with Moscow. The
attainment of power almost invariably in-
volves doing the exact opposite of what
was recommended in order to attain it.
Thus de Gaulle pulls France out of
Algeria, the English Conservatives dis-
band the British Empire, international
Marxism turns into pan-Slav national-
ism. Only lunatics like Hitler do what
they say they are going to do, with dis-
astrous consequences. The John Birchers,
I should suppose, would have got as little
joy out of a Goldwater Presidency as
American Communists and fellow-
travellers would have gotten out of a
Henry Wallace one. (From “Commen-
tary”, New York.)
"It's no good, darling! We can't go on meeting like this."


Letters to the Editor
The Death Penalty
SIR. In reply to Alwyn Karpin’s fur-
ther letter (B. —December 19):
(1) The category of persons Mr Karpin
finds difficulty in recognising includes, I
believe, the majority of his fellow citi-
zens who customarily accept without pro-
test the mass killing of external enemies,
mostly unconvicted of any crime.
He may be right in suggesting that they
“become more brutalised” when they
accept the execution of a small number
of internal enemies convicted of murder.
But I confess that I find this difficult to
believe.
(2) If the death penalty is supported
as being peculiarly appropriate for a
particular type of crime then its sup-
porters are by no means “logically in-
volved” in considering its use in relation
to other crimes of a totally different char-
acter.
(3) I assumed that Mr Karpin’s refer-
ence to the details of Mrs Thomson’s
execution was intended to be emotive. I
have in the past made a similar assump-
tion regarding J. Edgar Hoover’s refer-
ences to the details of particular crimes.
If I was mistaken about this I owe Mr
Karpin an apology. And perhaps we
both owe Mr Hoover one.
GORDON HAWKINS
Senior Lecturer in Criminology.
University of Sydney.
Reviews and Reviewers
SlR.—Your report of the Porter-Mer-
cury case (B. —December 12) reports
that the reviewer, Mr Broinowski, said
that he could not swear that he had read
every word in Mr Porter’s book before
writing his review, nor could he swear
that he had read every page thoroughly.
His review had apparently been written
on a residual recollection of newspaper
atricles (also written by people who had
not read the book thoroughly?) and the
book itself.
There must be many reviewers who
take their obligations of criticism and
appraisement seriously and conscienti-
ously, and undoubtedly Mr Broinowski
usually does so. It would be a great pity
if editors of newspapers and journals
imagine that the public is so anxious to
read what a professional critic has to
say about a publication that it cannot
wait until the reviewer has had time to
read the thing carefully and thoughtfully.
E. M. PERKINS
Brisbane (Qld).
Defence
SlR.—The increase in expenditure on de-
fence has shown that the Menzies Gov-
ernment is concerned about recent events
in South-East Asia. By returning the
Government Senate team the people of
Australia have shown that they share
this concern. But it is important to note,
while building up our defences is most
important, this alone does nothing to
solve the real problem. The crux of the
matter lies in the fact that India, Malay-
sia, South Vietnam, Taiwan have been,
or are right now, engaged in fighting
Communists. What these countries need,
what Australia needs, is an economic
policy that goes hand in hand with our
defence agreements. Therefore, if they
are to survive, if we are to survive, we
must help to build up their economies.
This would include preferential treatment
in trade agreements, technical assistance,
etc. Therefore, it could be well said that
the future of this country lies in the
hands of our wheat and wool marketing
delegations.
C. J. O'DWYER
Tabilk (SA).
Mavis Bramston
SIR. I must protest about your re-
viewer’s dismissal of The Mavis Bram-
ston Show (B. —Dec. 19) as a “smug,
smart show”. Certainly plenty of the
material in the show is precocious. A lot
of it is also pertinent. But precocity and
pertinence are necessary ingredients of
any show that aims to be at once topical,
satirical and a bit shocking.
Your reviewer’s implied ennui with the
whole show seems incredible when placed
alongside her “fascination” with Channel
7’s re-runs of ancient movies. They have
as much to do with television techniques,
scripting, direction and acting as Red
Skelton has with the Dalai Lama. The
fact that old movies are shown on tele-
vision doesn’t make them television.
PAUL RIORDAN
Darling Point (NSW).
Where Charity Begins
SIR. Before all your generous readers
rush to send donations to the “South
African Defence and Aid Fund’’ as ex-
tolled by Maria Beswick (B. —December
12) might I remind them of the many
“women and children left without sup-
port because of the arrest of the family
breadwinner” in the State of Victoria, not
in a foreign country, thousands of miles
away.
The old homily “Charity Begins At
Home” surely applies in these cases. I
know of one family of five children un-
der eight years of age who had no food
at all last Christmas Day, less than
twenty miles from the GPO, Melbourne,
not Johannesburg or Capetown. I will
personally make sure that this never oc-
curs again to this family, but those who
are moved by the spirit of Christian
charity at this time of the year might
care to contact the social service organi-
sation of their own religious denomina-
tion as listed in the Melbourne telephone
directory or through their local clergy.
These organisations are recommended
by the hungry mouths they feed and the
shivering children they clothe.
FRANCES J. MURRAY
Bur wood (Vic.).
Tanner
"It's no good, darling! We can't go on meeting like this."


Simple Faith
A SHORT STORY BY PATRICIA ROLFE
Two small, silly boys in cheap white
satin shirts and short pants led the
procession of First Communicants
into the church. Every few moments
the boys’ chubby hands reached into
white-painted wicker baskets, decked
with blue ribbon, and flung random
handfuls of dying petals on the brown
linoleum. Their mouths were intent but
their eyes wandered alarmingly.
The First Communicants, girls from
St Cecilia’s convent, were older than the
two boys: old enough to maintain in the
face of a large congregation and for a
lengthy period an expression of sickly
piety; with little girls this is the outward
sign that they have reached the age of
reason. The ancient organ in the
gallery above gasped, then began to
sound a shambling hymn which the
girls’ school choir, uncertain and tone-
less, took up. The procession moved
forward, the small girls threading out
into a ribbon of white.
As the procession came through the
double doors at the back of the church
a woman dashed forward. A hand
loaded with diamonds caught one of the
children by the shoulder and spun her
round. The small, sallow face was
Catherine Rosenzweig’s. Whatever was
said to the child took only a few seconds.
Then the child, released, tottered after
the procession.
Ellen Rosenzweig, seated in the
crowded church, saw the incident and
turned to her husband. His face, so
like Catherine's, mirrored the child's
dismay.
“What was it?” he asked. “What went
wrong?”
“Nothing. Nothing. I don't know.”
“Who was that woman?”
“I don’t know.”
Then the priest came on to the altar.
Ellen stood, then knelt. Sam stood, then
sat down. Ellen opened her missal and
went in unto the altar of God, Who for
reasons of His own had given so little
joy to her youth.
She followed Mass punctiliously, leaf-
ing through her missal, placing and dis-
placing bright ribbons. She was not
disturbed by Sam sitting beside her. He
knew about her religious life, the years
away from the Church and the painful,
slow path back. She had told him all
that, but just as a matter of interest. In
the city he used always to go to Mass
with her, but he hadn't since they had
come to Bindii six months before. In
Bindii he had generally been busy settling
into his practice or doing repairs to the
old house that went with it. So it was
the first time that he had been in a
country church, a parish church, with
her.
In Sydney he had gone with her be-
cause they were not happy apart, even
for that hour in the morning. Both of
them liked the city on Sunday when, as
most people fled to the beaches or the
bush, it became the still centre of a
whirlpool of mostly pointless activity.
They went to one of the city churches
and afterwards they would walk (later
with Catherine, first in a pram, then in
a stroller) through the parks or gardens.
Then they would find a restaurant open
for lunch. This was the closest Sam
could get to the Sunday he had known
as a child.
Ellen never felt self-conscious in
church with Sam. She trusted him not
to interfere, and not to use the joking
denigration which is the mark of the
supposedly tolerant. But she trusted
herself, too. She could tell herself with
truth that she had never for one moment
tried to convert him.
Of course, sometimes he asked a ques-
tion: Why does the priest wear different
colors on different Sundays? Something
like that. She would explain and they
would talk about it for a few minutes,
but that was all. It was just as perhaps
when she was reading a novel with a
Jewish theme, or saw something about a
Jew in the papers that puzzled her, she
would ask Sam to explain, although, of
course, his religion meant little to him
now.
But it was all part of the courtesy she
sought to maintain between them, the
daily, dignified expression of their love.
Ah, God, her own parents! Her own
home! Men and women who were cour-
teous would never cease to love each
ether. She believed this. Their love, which
found expression in so many small ways,
was deep, wide and passionate on both
sides. And grateful on both sides, too.
To stumble out of a broken, drunken
Irish-Australian home in a Sydney slum
into the arms of the sole survivor of a
fated Jewish family. After that, who
could not believe in miracles?
The love of two embraced the third
as Catherine went to the altar. Ellen
now could find Catherine easily in the
procession because she realised that
Catherine wore a blue headband while
the other children’s were white.
After Mass, Ellen and Sam stood and
waited for Catherine who came along
beside the balding privet hedge, hand-in-
hand with another child.
“This is Bridie,” Catherine said. “This
is my best friend.”
Bridie was a large, plump child, a
good deal taller and a good deal more
self-possessed than Catherine. But she
seemed quite happy to be designated
Catherine’s best friend.
“What happened in the procession?”
Ellen asked her daughter. “Why did
that woman stop you?”
“That was my mother,” Bridie said
complacently. “It was because Cathe-
rine has on a blue headband instead of
a white.”
“Oh, yes,” Ellen said. “I noticed
that myself. Well, darling,” she said,
turning to her daughter, “it doesn't mat-
ter, does it?”
“It does matter,” Sam said.
“No it doesn't. Sam,” Ellen said. “It
hasn’t got anything to do with anything.
They could all be in black crepe.”
“But it does matter,” he insisted. “Why
should Catherine be different from the
other children?”
“Oh, I know what you mean. Child-
ren like to conform. But Catherine's a
bit young to care.”
Catherine, who apparently did not
care, and Bridie went ahead through
the crowd to stop again in front of the
woman with the fistful of diamonds.
Catherine evidently bore the woman no
ill will because of the incident in church.
When Ellen and Sam moved towards
the gate, there was no avoiding intro-
ductions.
“Bridie has told us all about Cathe-
rine,” the woman said. “So it's nice to
meet her parents. What did you say
your name was?”
“Rosenzweig,” Ellen said.
“Rosenzweig,” the woman said.
“Goodness, it is hard to get used to these
foreign names!”
“Darling, you're being tactless again,”
a man said, coming up alongside her. His
complacent smile matched hers. He
was like her, too, in the way married


people grow alike. They were both
plump and handsome with an edge of
impatience to their casual, confident
manner.
The woman smiled. “Why, so I am,”
she said happily.
“And what did you say your name
was?” Ellen asked somewhat truculently.
“Goodness, didn't I say?” the woman
said, flicking at her silk dress with her
diamond - heavy hand. “We’re such
pillars of the church that we expect
everyone to recognise us on sight.”
“I’m Dermot Phelan and this is my
wife, Sheila,” the man said and leant
across to take Sam’s hand.
“We’re the Bindii Phelans, of course,”
Sheila Phelan said. “No relation to the
Mudgee Phelans, although I was at
school with Mini. I was a Comerford
from Henley before I married. No
relation to the Coonabarabran Comer-
fords.”
Ellen tittered slightly at this formula,
but recovered quickly. The Phelans did
not seem to notice her reaction. Sam
received this information with entire
seriousness.
“Well, I suppose the good nuns are
waiting to give the children their com-
munion breakfast,” Sheila Phelan said.
“Do you really want to stay and watch
all those little girls guzzling? Our house
is just across the road. Why not come
across for a cup of tea?” She looked
at the clear morning sky. “I suppose
it’s too early for a drink. Anyway, come
across. Catherine can come home with
Bridie when it's all over.”
She delivered instructions to her
daughter without waiting for the
Rosenzweigs to say what they wanted to
do. Then she led them out of the
church grounds to a large, modern house
across the road.
“Isn't it the most ghastly church?”
Ellen said conversationally when they
were sitting in the living-room of the
Phelans’ house.
“'VTow who’s being tactless?” Sheila
Phelan said, showing her teeth in a
pleased smile. “Dermot's parents built
the church as a memorial to their
parents. The Phelans have been in the
district since the pioneer days. Der-
mot's grandparents built the original
wattle-and-daub church. In those days
the priest used to come on horseback
from Wellesley once a month.”
“Oh, I’m sorry,” Ellen said to Dermot
Phelan. He had just taken a tea-tray
from an elderly woman, who appeared to
be some kind of servant. Phelan did
not seem to have the same power to irri-
tate Ellen as his wife had.
“Personally, I think it’s a marvellous
church for a town this size,” Sheila
Phelan said, pouring tea. “The marble
altar was brought out from Italy 40
years ago. It’s one of the most elabor-
ate in the State still.”
“Oh, yes, the altar,” Ellen said. “It
is very elaborate. I’m sure the church
was meant to be splendid but taste has
changed. Even a generation ago Catho-
lics still followed the Irish style with
thick walls and tiny, high windows to
keep out the cold. They couldn’t get
used to a hot climate. Everyone was
the same, so it’s no reflection on your
family.” She nodded jerkily at Phelan.
“And, of course, you can't stop the
priest acquiring all the pious junk that
people give him to buy their way to
Heaven. Those statues of Christ looking
like the bearded lady in the circus, and
those angels like advertisements for
White Wings flour. Absolutely in the
worst tradition of Catholic art.”
“Dermot gave the statues in memory
of his parents,” Sheila Phelan said,
crushing Ellen absolutely. Without
another glance at her victim, she turned
to Sam. “You haven’t been in Bindii
long?” she asked.
“About six months.”
“Have you really? In the old days,
oh. even five or six years ago, we knew
everyone in town. Of course, we aren't
actually townspeople. Our property,
Trahlee, is about 20 miles along the
Wellesley road, but we built this place
so that the children could go to day
school when they were small. Dermot
spends most of his time out at Trahlee,
don’t you, darling? But we’ve always
been terribly well known in Bindii. And
we knew everybody. Now it's so differ-
ent. For instance, there are all those
terrible little boxes put up by the
Housing Commission down by the rail-
way station.” She paused. “Ooh, I'm
not being tactless again, am I?”
Sam laughed and shook his head.
“We’re in the Mansfield place,” he
said.
“The Mansfield place? Are you?”
“We bought the house along with the
practice.”
Sheila Phelan sighed her relief. “Oh,
you're the new doctor, are you? How
nice! We had heard he was a foreigner.
We were wondering what we should do
about him. You know how it is in a
country town. Now we've met you. Of
course, we've gone to darling old Joe
White for years but he is getting past it.
I went down to Sydney and stayed with
Mummy when the last baby—that's
Terence; he's three and I hope he's
asleep—was coming. I felt Joe wasn't
up to confinements any more. But it
will be marvellous having another
Catholic doctor in the town. It's so
important, don’t you think? Particularly
these days when everyone seems to be
losing their heads. You know, the pill
and all that.”
“My husband isn’t—” Ellen began.
“Darling,” Sheila Phelan said as her
husband moved to the drink-tray. “This
is the new doctor.” She waited for him
to share her pleasure, then went on:
“When Bridie said that Catherine
Rosenzweig was her best friend at
school we thought that she was making
it up. Catherine Rosenzweig. We thought
it was a fantasy child. You know how
children make up people. It's quite
harmless, of course.”
“Ves, I know,” Ellen said quickly,
brightly. “Fantasy people are such a
comfort. When one thinks what real
people are like.”
“Rosenzweig?” Sheila Phelan said
speculatively, sluicing her drink around
in the glass.
“I was born in Vienna,” Sam said.
“Oh, is that so?” Sheila Phelan said.
“We got to Vienna last time we were in
Europe. It's very interesting and beau-
tiful. But it's a long way from any-
where. We went there for the Spanish
Riding School. Dermot and I are mad
about horses, so it was well worth it.
How long have you been in this coun-
try?”
“How long? Oh, 12 years.”
“You speak English very well, con-
sidering,” Sheila Phelan said, smiling
graciously.
“I learnt it as a child.”
“Of course, Europeans are marvellous
at languages. But you do have an
accent,” she accused.
“I suppose 1 do.”
Sheila Phelan smoothed her skirt down
over her plump thighs. “I suppose the
breakfast will go on as long as the
children can stuff themselves,” she said.
“You haven't any other kiddy-wids
waiting at home, have you?”
“Catherine is an only child.”
“An only child,” Sheila Phelan echoed.
“How tragic! We have six of the mon-
sters ourselves. We just adore big
families, but Bridie and Terence are the
only ones still at home. The others are
at boarding-school. There's even one at
university, but only doing physio. We
don’t exactly run to brains, but we do
run to big families. Except for Dermot's
sister, Phiiomena. She's only got one,
and she had an awful time managing
that.” She smiled across at Sam.
“The miscarriages and an operation be-
fore they got darling little Celia. Then
it was a miracle.”
She paused. Ellen said nothing.
“Oh, well.” Sheila Phelan said at last.
“I suppose you're lucky to have
Catherine.”
“Very,” Ellen said with an edge to
her voice.
Sheila Phelan turned back to Sam.
“Vienna's rather sad these days, isn't
it?” she said.


“I haven’t seen it since I was a child.
Nineteen-thirty-four, to be exact.”
“I thought you said you’d only been
here for 12 years.”
“We left Vienna before the war.
Then—”
“Sam was in Auschwitz,” Ellen said
abruptly. She knew he would not want
her to say this.
“Where?”
“Auschwitz, darling. The concentra-
tion camp,” Dermot Phelan said. “My
wife is a little hard of hearing, although
she won't admit it.”
“T am not hard of hearing,” Sheila
-*■ Phelan said pleasantly. “I can hear
anything I want to hear. I just tune out
sometimes when I’m bored. Auschwitz.
How terrible for you! Dermot was in
the RAAF during the war. He got a
couple of gongs, but he hates me to
mention it. I did some work for the Red
Cross but I wouldn't go into the services.
They make women so unfeminine I
think.” She pushed at a silk cushion.
“I thought you said you came here from
Vienna.”
“I lived in Israel for some years after
the war,” Sam said with something of
the same stolid persistence Ellen was
displaying in exposing his background.
“Israel. Oh, Israel. That must be
very interesting and beautiful.”
“It is,” Sam said without irony.
“We must go there some time, mustn’t
we, darling?” Sheila Phelan said. “We
hope to go abroad again next year.
Depending on the price of wool, of
course.” She paused, frowning. “Then
1 suppose you’re not one of us?”
“What do you mean, one of us?”
Ellen demanded.
Sheila Phelan giggled. “I meant a
Catholic, Mrs Rosenzweig,” she said.
“No, he’s not,” Ellen said.
“Then we’ll have to do something
about it, won’t we, Mrs Rosenzweig?”
Sheila Phelan said, her eyes on Sam.
“I m afraid I'm not the converting
sort of Catholic,” Ellen said.
“Oh, come, come, Mrs Rosenzweig,”
Sheila Phelan said. “That's not the
spirit. We must take you in hand,” she
said, turning her brilliant, loose smile on
Sam. “But for the time being,” she
added, turning back to Ellen, “you’ll
be a much needed recruit to the Catho-
lic Women's Association.”
’ Ellen gave a wintry smile. “I’m afraid
I’m not that sort of Catholic either,” she
said.
“Dear, dear,” Sheila Phelan said. “I’m
a very simple sort of Catholic myself.
I think that's the most wonderful thing
about the Church. Simple faith. After
all, didn’t Our Lord say, ‘Unless you
become as little children’. Why, here
are the children!”
Elien sprang up. “We really must be
going now that Catherine is here,” she
said.
“Catherine’s lost her prayer-book al-
ready,” Bridie said cheerfully, flinging
herself into her father’s lap.
Ellen hurried across to her daughter
as she saw the tearful face.
“Don't worry, darling,” she said,
throwing an arm around the child’s
shoulders. “We can easily get another.
When did you lose it?”
“Just a minute ago,” Catherine said.
“I had it when we left the church. Then
we stopped to play with Bridie's puppy,
Rudy.”
“You must say a prayer to St
Anthony,” Sheila Phelan said.
“That's superstitious nonsense, Mrs
Phelan,” Ellen said, turning sharply. “I
don’t want Catherine to think that a
saint should be concerned with matters
such as a lost prayer-book. We can
easily buy her another.”
“Superstition!” Sheila Phelan echoed,
her brown eyes rolling. “Why, Mrs
Rosenzweig, St Anthony finds everything
for me. I couldn’t operate without him.
I’ll say a prayer to St Anthony for you,
Catherine.”
The Rosenzweigs moved towards the
front door.
“We’ll go back to the church and look
for it,” Ellen said. “And if we don’t
find it, we'll buy another one tomorrow.”
“You must come to dinner one night
soon,” Sheila Phelan said when they were
on the front verandah. “Mustn’t they,
darling? To meet some people. And
Catherine must join the pony club. We
can find her a good little pony very
reasonably, I’m sure. The pony clubs
are marvellous for children. Takes them
right out of themselves. So good for
discipline, too. They have to do every-
thing for their own mount. That teaches
them to be unselfish.”
“Catherine’s a delicate child,” Ellen
said. “I don’t think—”
“Then the pony club is the very thing
for her,” Sheila Phelan said. “Isn’t it?”
she asked, appealing to Sam. She
stopped a moment, then darted forward.
“There it is,” she said. “Catherine, it’s
your prayer-book. You must have drop-
ped it when you opened the front gate.
You didn’t hear it fall on the grass.”
“So it wasn’t lost at all, darling,”
Ellen said.
“It was lost,” Sheila Phelan said. “And
St Anthony found it. It was lost, wasn’t
it, Catherine?”
“Yes, it was lost,” the child said.
“That shows what St Anthony can
do, doesn't it, Catherine? A new prayer-
book wouldn't have been the same at all,
would it?”
“No, not really,” Catherine said.
“Would it, Mummy?”
But Sheila Phelan, smiling happily,
had already turned to go back into her
Tanner
"It's no good, Lolita! We can't go on meeting like this."


house, not caring what Ellen thought.
“Aren’t they the most awful people?”
Ellen said to Sam once Catherine,
prayer-book in hand, had gone skipping
ahead.
“Why?” Sam asked in what sounded
to Ellen too-innocent surprise.
“Good Heavens, darling! In every
way. Stupid and limited. Shrewd over all
the unimportant things. Arrogant in a
quite pointless way. Narrow, bigoted and
superstitious. It’s hard to believe that that
kind of Catholic still exists. They’re the
sort who give us all a bad name.”
“Have you all got a bad name?”
“Oh, don’t make fun of me,” Ellen
said, as she went ahead of him into
their house. “It was people like that
who made me leave the Church and it’s
in spite of them that I stay in it.”
“Oh, I don’t know. Granted Mrs
Phelan is pretty stupid. You know,
she rather reminds me of my mother.
And my grandmother. They always
made everything so accessible, so simple.
In the Jewish way, of course.”
“My mother and my grandmother
made the Catholic religion so simple
and accessible to everyone. The pity
was they got nothing from it themselves.”
They were in the living-room of the
house where unit furniture from a city
flat married ill with the high ceilings and
moulded plasterwork of the old country
house. Ellen, perhaps for reassurance,
straightened the frames of her tw'o origi-
nal paintings and touched with her
fingertips the rows of books they had
both accumulated before and since mar-
riage. “Pioneers in the district,” she
went on, suddenly angry. “You’d think
they were landed gentry. They were
probably carpetbaggers who came here
with the gold rushes and set up as store-
keepers, then bought land. Country
people are the most frightful snobs and
those bog Irish are the worst. They
won’t ask us to dinner.”
“Is that what you're worrying about?”
“Of course not.”
“Frankly, I hope they do. After all,
Ellen, we’ve got to get to know people
here. We knew that when we came.
We can’t go on being a cosy little unit
of three for ever. We’ve put everything
we’ve got into this practice, and you
know how long it took us to get the
money together to buy it. We need to
know people like the Phelans. You don’t
have to become friends, but you do have
to mix. You know the way things go.”
“I know the way things go, and I hate
it.”
* * * *
“|3y the way, you must come to the pic-
nics,” Sheila Phelan said over the
soup.
“The picnics?” Sam echoed, and to
Ellen the way he said it made him
sound like the funny little Jew he was.
At the Phelans’ dinner-table, Ellen felt
uncomfortable in her black taffeta dress
which was not only old-fashioned but
most unflattering, the sort of dress that
looked like the only thing its wearer
owned. She felt she looked thin and
white and querulous, a woman who
could manage to have only one child,
and who was no help to her husband in
his profession. She could easily have
bought a new dress, but, obstinately, she
had thought, why bother? After all, it
was only one dinner. The Phelans
wouldn’t ask them again. Sam in his
dark suit fared hardly better. He looked
small, sallow and seedy alongside the
rich, tweedy, red-faced self-satisfaction
of Dermot Phelan and the other male
guest, Tim Farrell. The Farrells, who
lived 30 miles along the main road,
were almost exact replicas of the Phe-
lans. Ellen knew that she and Sam
looked as if they didn’t belong and never
would belong.
“The picnic race club,” Sheila Phelan
said. “The Bindii Cup meeting is next
month. Around these parts it’s the
only excuse we have for living, isn’t it,
Peggy?” she added, turning to the femi-
nine half of the Farrells. “And it is
rather beaut. Masses of house parties,
and, of course, the Woolshed Ball.”
“Neither of us is any fonder of horses
than Catherine is,” Ellen said.
“You don't have to like horses,” Sheila
Phelan said. “You just have to like
people.”
“Ellen probably doesn't like people
any more than she likes horses,” Sam
said.
“I rather felt that,” Sheila Phelan
said, faintly sighing. “Anyway, we’ll
put your names down. Oh, dear, pork,”
she said as the elderly woman brought
a dish and set it before Dermot Phelan.
The six people gazed at the dish of meat.
“Oh, dear, pork,” Sheila Phelan said
again. “I simply never thought—l was
just thinking of a change from the
eternal beef or lamb.”
“Why?” Peggy Farrell asked brightly.
“IV|R Rosenzweig isn't one of us,”
ITJ- Sheila Phelan explained. “I always
believe in letting people know these
things,” she told the table. “It saves you
putting your foot in it.”
“C of E?” Peggy Farrell asked, frown-
ing at the dish of roast pork.
“My husband is Jewish,” Ellen said.
“Mrs Rosenzweig is one of us,” Sheila
Phelan said quickly.
“Then you must join our Women's
Association,” Peggy Farrell said.
“Mrs Rosenzweig says she’s not that
sort of Catholic,” Sheila Phelan said.
“Oh, dear,” Peggy Farrell said.
“Which reminds me,” Sheila Phelan
went on. “Peggy and Tim have just
the pony for Catherine. Their elder
girl has gone to boarding-school, and
by the time she comes home she’ll be too
big for her pony.”
“Sam and I haven't really discussed
Catherine joining a pony club,” Ellen
said. “She’s always been afraid of dogs,
so it might be a long while before she
gets used to horses. Perhaps when she’s
older.”
“The older she gets the harder it'll be
for her to get used to horses,” Sheila
Phelan said.
“That’s the risk we’ll have to take,”
Ellen said.
“Honestly, I don't want to force
Catherine to ride. I just thought—”
“It’s probably a good idea,” Sam said
suddenly. “Ellen and I will talk it over
and let you know.”
“By the way, Rosenzweig,” Dermot
Phelan said, clearing his throat and
pointing with the carving-knife to the
roast pork.
“Oh, of course,” Sheila Phelan said.
“1 was forgetting. You do eat pork,
Mr Rosenzweig? Or would you like
me to get Possie to do you an omelette?”
“Of course I eat pork,” Sam said.
“I’m so glad,” Sheila Phelan said. “I
thought it was all right, really. If you
were not baptised, how could you have
got married in the Catholic Church?”
“T)erhaps we could ask them on Friday
and have meat pies,” Ellen answered,
rather dreamily, when Sam asked when
did she intend having the Phelans back.
But her mood towards the Phelans was
anything but dreamy and she arranged
the return dinner party as soon as pos-
sible. Now she was determined to do
everything she could to secure their
friendship. For Sam’s sake. But a grain
of obstinacy remained and she saw no
reason why this should be entirely on the
Phelans’ terms. As guests she rejected the
few town couples they had met, a solici-
tor and a veterinary surgeon and their
wives. She chose instead a young school-
teacher and a bank clerk. She had met
the schoolteacher one afternoon in the
municipal library. As they claimed their
reserved books they had exclaimed hap-
pily to each other about how easy it
was to get new books because nobody
else in Bindii wanted to read them.
The teacher was a priggish young
woman living out her sullen exile from
the world of little theatres. The clerk
from the Bank of New South Wales
built his life in Bindii around his col-
lection of folk-song records. Eilen had
discovered this as she carried out her
simple banking business.
Ellen, a venturesome but unskilled
cook, rejected the consomme, roast
pork and fruit salad and ice-cream of


the Phelans in favor of onion soup, beef
with burgundy (it was not Friday), a
cheese board (she drove into Wellesley
to buy more exotic cheeses than Bindii
offered) and red wine.
The dinner was a disaster from every
point of view. The lack of common
interest between the guests and the badly
cooked meal culminated in Sheila Phe-
lan unceremoniously leaving the table
at the first sight and smell of the cheese
board and going to the bathroom to be
sick.
T|ermot Phelan then said he must
take his wife home, although she,
white and shaking, insisted, as her eyes
roamed the room in some distaste, that
she hated to leave. But they left. Sam,
pleading a busy day in surgery the next
day, soon went to bed, leaving Ellen to
her schoolteacher and her bank clerk.
Ellen, herself somewhat white and
shaken, sat up until three discussing the
theatre with Heather, the schoolteacher,
while Basil, the bank clerk, plucked away
on his guitar.
Ellen felt that that evening should
convince Sam that they could try to fit
their lives into the narrow pattern of the
Phelans’ but would fail. It seemed it
did, because from that day the Phelans
were not mentioned. Sam and she,
apparently, were discarded as possibles
for the Bindii Race Club and when
Catherine got her pony the negotiations
were with Peggy Farrell.
But Sam’s practice prospered. He was
such a good doctor, Ellen felt, that he
would realise in time you could get
ahead without befriending such vulgar
and stupid people as the Phelans.
On the fairly uninspiring basis of Basil
and Heather, Ellen began to build up her
own little group of friends. Each dis-
covery was clutched at with great joy.
In time, Ellen managed to forget both
her failure and the Phelans. Until one
day, straightening the mass of books and
papers on Sam's bedside table, she found
a paperback called “First Steps Towards
the Church”. Mystified, she opened it,
and there, in a childish hand, was writ-
ten: “To Sam, hoping this will prove to
be the first step, Sheila Phelan”.
Ellen was so angry she threw the book
across the room. Then she picked it
up and flicked through it. It was just
the book that Sheila Phelan would buy:
trite, sentimental, old-fashioned nonsense.
But what was Sam doing with it? Surely
he wouldn't take that sort of rubbish
seriously? Perhaps he was reading it as
a humorous exercise. But that was in-
appropriate and possibly dangerous.
Ellen had firmly in the back of her mind
the sort of Catholic Sam would be, if
and when he did become one. And she
really did not doubt that one day he
would become one. But his conversion
would be a slow, mystic awakening: a
parallel, perhaps, with the discovery of
their love for each other; a parallel,
certainly, with her slow path back to the
Church. To take that shadowy expec-
tation away from her was to take part of
Sam’s love from her. It was insupport-
able.
She closed the book with its cheerful,
unctuous priest smiling at a dough-faced
couple on the cover and put it back on
the table. There was nothing she could
do. She couldn’t very well say to Sam,
have you been seeing Sheila Phelan?
What did that mean or imply? There
was no possibility that Sam was seeing
Sheila Phelan for any reason except that
he persisted in his belief that it was use-
ful to know people like that. Ellen
winced a trifle as she acknowledged
that Sam might harbor such a silly snob-
bery, then shrugged it off. Any thought
of a personal relationship, an affair,
was unthinkable. It wasn’t, Ellen told
herself, that a woman like Sheila Phelan
was too virtuous. She was just too
smug and unimaginative.
Tn due course, Ellen found “Second
A Steps Towards the Church”. Still she
remained silent and so did Sam. She
had no idea of how or where Sam and
Sheila Phelan met each other. Except
for the odd hours when Sam was on his
rounds he was always either in the sur-
gery or the house. There was hardly an
hour of his time she could not account
for. The practical problem of how they
met pushed the more serious one of
Sam’s possible conversion out of Ellen’s
mind.
The mystery remained until the day
on which Catherine, who was enchanted
with her pony and completely at home in
the pony club, came home early with a
bruised temple after a fall.
“It’s nothing, Mummy,” she protested,
but Ellen decided to go around to the
surgery at the side of the house and
ask the nurse, Jenny Smithers, to ask
Sam to take a look at Catherine as soon
as surgery was finished. Ellen hurried
along the side-path and at the door of
the surgery came hard up against a
heavily pregnant Sheila Phelan.
Sheila Phelan smiled over her swelling
body.
“Well, my guilty secret is out,” she
said. “My seventh!”
“How nice!” Ellen said. She smiled
what she felt was the thin, envious smile
of a woman who has managed to have
only one child and that with great
difficulty. Then she made as if to pass
Sheila Phelan. “I’m in a great hurry to
see my husband. Catherine came off
her pony, and I’m rather worried.”
“If Catherine has had a fall she must
go for another ride as soon as possible,”
Sheila Phelan said. “So that she won’t
lose her nerve.”
“She may have concussion, Mrs Phe-
lan,” Ellen said. “That’s why I want
to see my husband as soon as possible.
To get him to come.”
“Of course, if she has concussion that’s
a different matter,” Sheila Phelan con-
ceded.
Ellen shut her mouth tight and
brushed past Sheila Phelan. She went
into the surgery, which was empty. That
meant Sam was seeing his last patient for
the day. She gave Jenny Smithers the
message asking Sam to come as soon as
he could. When she came out again,
Sheila Phelan was still standing in the
pathway.
“As a matter of fact,” Sheila Phelan
said, “I was just on my way to see you.”
“Yes?”
“We have news for you. Wonderful
news. Sam's going to become a Catho-
lic. He'll be baptised on Saturday week.”
“Oh, no!” Ellen said.
“There, isn’t that terrific!” Sheila Phe-
lan said. “I knew you’d be thrilled.
Soon after I started going to Sam, when
the baby was coming—you guessed at
that dinner-party here, didn’t you?—we
somehow got talking about the Church.
One thing led to another, but we decided
after a lot of thought not to tell you.
Your wife’s a very sensitive woman,
I said. Hypersensitive. If you received
instruction and then didn’t turn, it
would upset her terribly. Keep it a
secret until you’re sure, I said. Then it
will be a wonderful surprise. It is a
wonderful surprise, isn’t it?”
“It is a surprise.”
“You sound as if you’d rather Sam
didn’t become a Catholic.”
“No, it’s not that.”
“You want it to be hard when it's so
easy. If it were left to people like you,
how do you think the missionaries would
ever convert the heathen? You have to
plunge right in. Teach them the penny
catechism and then wait for faith. You
probably wanted him to be a Catholic,”
Sheila Phelan conceded, “but you wanted
him to be your sort of Catholic. And
there’s really only one sort, Mrs Rosen-
zweig. That's the wonderful thing about
the Church. One, holy, catholic and
universal.”
Ellen felt the waves of anger and pride
wash into the corners of her soul. She
thought probably she would hit Mrs
Phelan, but she couldn’t. After all, she
was pregnant. No one hit pregnant
women, no matter what they did. The
pride and anger washed away, leaving
Ellen feeling thinner and whiter than
ever.
“Oh, well, God moves in mysterious
ways His wonders to perform,” Sheila
Phelan said, her brown eyes rolling.
“He certainly does,” Ellen said, as an
act of faith.


REVIEWS
BOOKS
Literature and Anti-Literature
A Survey of the Year in The Arts
by LEONIE KRAMER
surely, envies the literary his-
torian. Even if he is set the short-
term task of reviewing the literature of
one year, he can so easily be wrong. He
can be wrong in two directions—by mis-
representing the past and, by implica-
tion, wrongly predicting the future. So
he is a large and vulnerable target for
writers to whom he fails to do justice
and critics whom he fails to please.
So, conscious of the disadvantages of
my position, I venture my first general-
isation. 1964 was not, I think, a vintage
year for literature, though literature was
the centre of some debates which may
not, in the end, turn out to have had
much to do with literary values at all.
“Fanny Hill" continued to flaunt her
somewhat faded charms, and is now offi-
cially permitted to extend her influence
in Canada. There were whispers of dis-
satisfaction about the Nobel Prize; hints
that perhaps it was awarded to the
second best; even that Shakespeare might
not have been considered a suitable can-
didate for the honor, and might have re-
fused it anyway. New Zealanders stole
a march on Australians by receiving per-
mission to read James Baldwin’s
“Another Country”; while Australians
protested with little success against the
suggestion that they were not old enough
to read “The Group”. These minor
excitements have kept us going over the
past year, but one cannot help wondering
whether they have done much for litera-
ture.. For unfortunately, when a book
becomes the centre of a legal argument,
or even of public debate, the question of
its merits and defects as literature be-
comes quite secondary to its value as
a witness for the defence or prosecution.
Literary matters of more consequence
are hidden in the smoke and fire of
battle. John Bowen put the point in
another way earlier this year when he
said, “Journalists are not interested in
books as books; they are interested in
books as news.”
In 1964 it has perhaps been easier to
be interested in books as news than in
books as books, chiefly because books as
books have not been interesting enough.
In fiction, 1964 has produced modest
competence without excitement; but it
has also seen the sharpening of the pro-
blems presented to readers by current
trends in the novel. To take a case in
point: this year the Prix Formentor was
won by Nathalie Sarraute's novel-
without-characters, “The Golden Fruit”.
It is, in fact, an anti-novel, one which
rejects the plot-plus-character formula.
At the time of the award an Indian
writer and a German delegate criticised
the anti-novel, the one on the ground
that it could have little interest for non-
- European readers: the other on the
ground that reportage in fiction is im-
portant, especially for countries creating
a literature of their own. These argu-
ments are not without relevance to the
year s work in fiction. For it seems to
me that one of the reasons for dissatis-
faction is the novelist's increasing pre-
occupation with allusive and oblique
techniques for their own sakes. Three
novels published this year illustrate this
tendency very clearly—Elizabeth Bowen’s
“The Little Girls ', Iris Murdoch’s “The
Italian Girl” and Brigid Brophy's “The
Snow Ball”. The first two in particular
are exercises in thematic construction;
they use characters as bricks in the build-
ing. And while one might admire the
ingenuity of the structure, one can at
the same time spare a tear for the ghosts
imprisoned in if, and a further tear for
the builders who have to their credit in
the past buildings far superior to these
transparent boxes.
Even “The Group’’, which staggers
under the weight of its documentary evi-
dence, seems little more than an exercise
in social reminiscence. Its characters,
amusing enough at times, are figures in
a series of cartoons. A notable excep-
tion to this trend away from the explora-
tion of character per se seems to me
L. P. Hartley’s “The Brickfield - ’; and
one might accept as a facetious comment
upon fiction-as-allegory Anthony Bur-
gess's “The Eve of St Venus”.
It would be inaccurate to suggest that
the same malaise has afflicted Australian
fiction (though it has done in the past);
but it has been a lean year here too. In
my opinion there has been more enjoy-
ment and interest in short stories. Most of
the well-known Australian writers have
published in magazines and journals
throughout the year. Of short stories
from abroad I would pick out Bernard
Malamud’s “Idiots First” and Katherine
Anne Porter's “Collected Short Stories”.
In poetry, at least in Australia, condi-
tions are healthier; indeed this year has
produced a bumper crop, with individual
volumes by Bruce Beaver, Alexander
Craig, Peter Hopegood, David Row-
botham, Francis Webb, John Blight,
Gwen Harwood, Chris Wallace-Crabbe,
Elizabeth Riddell, John Thompson and
James McAuley. There are many indi-
vidual excellences —notably in Gwen
Harwood’s volume—but what matters
even more than these is the body of
work, varied, rarely less than competent,
and often exciting and impressive. The
English poetry I have seen this year
seems by contrast a little faded. Eliza-
beth Jennings in “Recoveries” is still very
uneven, and her faults are more notice-
able than her virtues. The poets whom
I have read in magazines and journals
have not attracted my full attention.
From this flat landscape. Robert Graves’s
“Man Does, Woman Is” stands out.
So, if this has not been a brilliant year,
for us in Australia at least it has had
some compensations. Yet for me it ends
on a critical question mark for the novel.
It may be of course that experiments like
that of Nathalie Sarraute will produce a
new literary genre, which would still
leave us with the novel as we used to
know it, and with novelists who, dare we
hope, would take us once again into the
world of real action and character. I
am not suggesting a take-over by the
social realists. Heaven forbid! But the
anti-novel is also anti-social and en-
courages its readers not to share its
delights with each other but to talk
obscurely to themselves. It needs healthy
competition, not merely bewildered
respect.
MELBOURNE ART
Boyd’s Triumph
1964 did see one Melbourne painter
indisputably established. The Adelaide
Festival’s retrospective exhibition of
Arthur Boyd surprised I think many
even among his most ardent admirers.
One did not expect such imaginative
coherence. In particular those recent
pale and erotic figures settled into per-
spective and gained strength from do-
ing so. At the Festival too we saw
Nolan's African paintings, a series cap-
able of broadening one’s sympathy and
respect for life, but which, surprisingly,
several writers panned.
A third seemingly permanent expatri-
ate, Charles Blackman, re-established
himself at home. He has not changed
fundamentally in a new environment, in
fact he took his private world with him;
but he has refined out the soupiness
and gloom of previous work by using
his color more confidently and by putting


more trust in his own native but coy
sentiment.
It is always a battle for a painter to
change style. His work must slip back
while he confronts new problems and his
public is quick to run away from what
they did not expect to see. Albert
Tucker, Donald Laycock and Clifton
Pugh come to mind. Pugh, to his own
surprise, produced some sea shore paint-
ings in a quite abstract manner. Lay-
cock when last seen had changed direc-
tion again to formal abstraction, but, as
the school report writers say, although
his work shows great ability he needs to
concentrate more. He does not seem
satisfied enough with his ideas to work
them out fully.
Tucker's recent work still includes
some of his antipodean heads, but the
moody landscapes with birds are becom-
ing more numerous. Although landscape
has been common in his symbolist paint-
ing, he is now attacking it (head on as
is his fashion) as though he were seeing
nature for the first time, and trying to
make it beautiful without falling for
cliches. It is time, by the way, that
Tucker was given a retrospective like
Boyd’s. There is a great deal of his
work which has not been seen, and his
whole oeuvre is very important.
No account however short of this
year’s steady exhibitors should overlook
Fred Williams. His last few landscapes
before going overseas stretched his ele-
gant style to limits which few would have
thought possible. In his color Roberts
and McCubbin reappeared, at a higher
pitch, and he boldly simplified his com-
positions to match this strange essence
of the Australian landscape.
During the last year or so there has
been a steady decline in abstraction
among all painters, even those who once
upheld it vehemently. Among the young
men —George Baldessin, lan Burn, Paul
Partos. Robert Rooney, Gareth Sansom,
Bob Haberfield —it is very rare indeed,
although I dare say some hard-edge is
inevitable. Sculptors on the other hand,
like Lenton Parr, Norma Redpath, Inge
King, Vincas Jomantas, being from an
older generation of largely British inspira-
tion, are adhering to more formal styles.
These are all currently doing first rate
work and are, happily, getting more re-
cognition both in exhibitions and com-
missions. Young sculptors are rare, but
at least one outstanding man appeared.
George Baldessin’s twisted figures were
about the best sculpture shown this year.
BILL HANNAN
SYDNEY ART
Cosmopolitan Year
One outstanding feature of the 1964
development in art was the high quality
of Sydney shows, either sent or gathered
from overseas. In this respect the N.S.W.
Art Gallery scores heavily. Not only
did it present the most eagerly visited and
popular show of the year in the excellent
William Dobell retrospective, but the
Michener collection gave us the first real
taste of contemporary US painting we
have seen so far. The Gothic exhibition,
small but good, English silver, Eskimo
art and Persian carpets may be added.
The Rubinstein scholarship, with Colin
Lanceley’s junk assemblage as a contro-
versial, if predictable, winner, and the
Stuyvesant collection underline the in-
teresting fact of business patronage.
Transfield, W. D. & H. O. Wills, David
Jones and others operate vigorously in
annual, Easter show, or festival prizes
with their considerable lure and drastic
selection.
All over the State competition fever is
as high as ever but the novelty has worn
off. No statistics exist to prove that com-
petition has added depths or heights to
the achievements in art. The Archibald,
Wynne and Sulman awards still com-
mand a dignified, well publicised position
in this field. The 1963 entries were
mixed, but a goodly proportion showed
vitality.
The CAS sponsors the young and
hands prizes to its more aged members,
the Society of Artists keeps the area well
open between the CAS and the hum-
mingly active Royal Art Society across
at North Sydney. Right, left and centre
show no symptoms of collapse.
A magnificent collection of Thai
sculpture was to be seen at David Jones
in August and a unique group of pre-
Columbian sculpture at Newman’s Gal-
lery could not be bettered by anything
this year.
Boyd, Nolan and Drysdale were given
monumental shows at Adelaide and little,
except for Nolan’s Kelly series (at
Qantas), was seen of them here. The
Fairweather annual at the Macquarie
never fails to interest, but there were a
number of good exhibitions at almost all
of the dealers’ galleries throughout the
year. The potters are raising standards
steadily. Kawai at the Hungry Horse
was masterly, as was Peter Rushforth at
David Jones. Together with the painters,
potters’ one-man shows seem to con-
vince or convert, avoiding the diffuseness
of group exhibitions.
Losses in elder statesmen of con-
temporary art, Ralph Balson, Rah Fizelle
and Godfrey Miller cannot be over-
estimated. With Thames & Hudson
books on Drysdale and Dobell, the Ure
Smith Aboriginal Art, and one or two
others, expensive art books are here to
stay.
JOHN HENSHAW
SYDNEY THEATRE
Low Spirits
It was a year for the celebration of
anniversaries—4oo years of Shakespeare,
10 years of the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust, 25 years of the Independent at
North Sydney—but the theatre in Syd-
ney did not radiate particularly high
spirits during 1964.
We had the usual diversity of attrac-
tions (e.g., Jack Benny and Micheal
MacLiammoir in the one year), but there
was a strange lack of virility about the
overall scene. Englishman Peter Jones
showed us a wealth of comic invention
in the farce “Boeing-Boeing”, (the year’s
biggest commercial success), but only
Brigid Lenihan among the supporting
cast did more than posture.
Choreographer Betty Pounder invested
the musical “How to Succeed in Business
Without Really Trying” with great ani-
mation; Will Mahoney joyously capered
his way to a stage comeback in “A
Funny Thing Happened on the Way to
the Forum”; both of these J. C. William-
son musicals were superior to the London
productions I saw in June. The style and
cerebral attack of “Who’s Afraid of Vir-
ginia Woolf” made a telling impact.
Edward Alhee's stunning play was given
a distinguished production by the Old
Tote Company and was by far the year’s
best effort. Jacqueline Kott's gaunt, ,
lacerating performance as the vindictive
Martha was the best by an actress in
1964. .She finished each performance
drawn, spent and tear-stained.
We must continue to be grateful for the
existence of the Old Tote, but I thought
its second year of operation was dis-
appointing. It doodled when it needed
to punch and its season was dishearten- ■
ingly short for the playgoers just begin-
ning to acquire the Old Tote habit.
Richard Campion’s production of Ber-
tholt Brecht’s “Caucasian Chalk Circle”
was an unsatisfying experience. Although
Wendy Dickson’s sets were ingenious I
thought the whole thing sat awkwardly .
on the Old Tote’s smallish open stage.
The contributions to Shakespeare’s
quater-centenary were limited to Tom
Brown’s “Henry V” and Williamson’s
anthology “The First 400 Years”. I was
unable to see “The 400 Years” which
teamed Googie Withers and Keith
Michell. “Henry” was an artistic suc-
cess, a costly commercial failure and the
Trust’s only major drama production for
its 10th anniversary year. John Bell’s
king was not without its faults (he threw
away his “unto the breach” speech; was
sometimes inaudible) but the general
manner of his playing vindicated our
faith in him. He had the support of an
unusually good company in which Anna
Volska’s Katharine and John Llewellyn’s
Fluellen were exemplary.
The Phillip Theatre emerged as a much


stronger management during the year, im-
porting stars and competing for plays on
the overseas market. Among memories
of the Phillip were the fine acting of John
Meillon and June Salter in the rather
empty “Rattle of a Simple Man”, and
the triumph of Miriam Karlin over poor
material in the revue “Is Australia Really
Necessary?” The Independent celebrated
25 years with a surprisingly good revival
of “Rusty Bugles”. The Ensemble’s most
promising plays—“ The Physicists” and
“The Rehearsal” —were spoilt by miscast-
ing and weak supporting performances.
The Trust pioneered Lunchtime Thea-
tre, but failed adequately to maintain it
as an attraction. The torch was taken up
by a co-operative group of actors and
actresses calling themselves the “Q”
Theatre Company who presented several
deservedly praised plays. -
DENIS O'BRIEN
First Readings
The Old Tote Theatre, Sydney, recently
gave four readings of Australian plays.
This was pretty well the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust’s contribution to the Aus-
tralian drama for 1964. The readings
bore out what seems to be the Trust’s
general thesis on local plays—that there
are no undiscovered masterpieces lying
around awaiting production. However,
there are other plays lying around,
which, for what can only be politely
described as various reasons, the Trust
will not touch.
The producers, Robin Lovejoy and
John Trevor, and the actors gave the
plays the most thorough and helpful
reading possible.
The plays were chosen by Mr Love-
joy because he felt the writers had got
so far then faced problems insoluble ex-
cept in the light of some sort of pre-
sentation.
The most hopeful play from a number
of points of view was Gregory Bunbury’s
“The Roses-smell of Friday Night”.
This was a direct descendant of “The
Summer of the 17th Doll” and “The
One Day of the Year”. This may be
both wise and inevitable at the author’s
stage of development.
The city worker who slides through
life from Monday to Friday just for a
weekend of beer and Bondi offers just
as strong possibilities as the seasonal
worker coming south to live it up in the
slack season. Mr Bunbury has been able
to grasp some of these possibilities al-
ready, and seemed to be working well
within the framework of his experience.
However, the play needs a good deal
of tidying up. Some of this should have
been done in the very early stages. The
plot hinges on a court case but Mr Bun-
bury doesn't know the difference between
criminal and civil actions and higher
and lower courts.
Michael Thomas in his “Uncle Ben”
and “The Pier” has written a lot of
nonsense, perhaps in the belief that plays
of the absurd consist of nonsense. (A
generation ago writers thought that the
stream of consciousness meant writing
down the first thing that came into your
head.) If Mr Thomas wants to walk in
the steps of Becket and Pinter he is
coming after playwrights who are models
of shape and precision. Deep inside
Mr Thomas is a playwright, but it may
be some time before he is let out.
PATRICIA ROLFE
MELBOURNE THEATRE
Look Back in Anguish
This has been a depressing year in the
Melbourne theatre. Australian plays
have never been so few, the classics
hardly made a showing, and the public
ignored what offerings there were to
celebrate Shakespeare’s fourth centenary.
Musicals and spectaculars still exercised
a pull, but “Camelot” cannot substitute
for all we are missing. The topical stage
is dead, intimate revues non-existent. We
have an actress like Googie Withers here
—but nothing for her to act in.
St Martin’s continues on its merry
way, and if not every play is a winner
the presentation is usually interesting. At
Emerald Hill, where the Town Hall clock
booms sombrely into the dialogue, a de-
voted but uneven company entertains an
empty auditorium. But for the support
from schools it could not carry on. The
pretty little Arts Theatre, in the heart of
the city, has had to close. More’s the
pity, for if any producer knows how to
get the best out of amateurs it is Joy
Mudge. The students also did not har-
vest a bumper crop. We had a view of
the absurd, and “Faust” was a brave
attempt, but “Hobson’s Choice” more
successful on its own level.
So we are left with what we can get
from abroad, which won't solve many
problems. “Barefoot in the Park” de-
served a better fate than it met. “The
Deadly Game”, from a Dlirrenmatt
novel, came near to being first class.
“Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?”
packed them in at the Union, but does
it really mark an artistic break-through?
The English did not fare so well and,
failing a last-minute surprise, the honors
will remain with the controversial Arthur
Miller. I don't want to buy into the
argument whether the Trust is pulling its
weight, but had it not been for Mr Sum-
ner’s importations the scene would be
even more dreary.
Matters are not improved by the
limited number of good mummers.
Messrs Whaley, Coleson, Norris, Hop-
good et al. are excellent professionals,
and we have at least an equal list of
women, but one can see too much of the
same talent, which is bad for theatrical
illusion. It might be an idea to exchange
a contingent with Sydney. In general
things seems to be a bit livelier over
there.
DAVID MARTIN
FILMS
Distribution Quirks
A backward look over 1964's Continen-
tal and English films inevitably brings to
mind the inconsistency of their distribu-
tion here. Some appear remarkably
quickly; others (some of which have
been screened at the Sydney Film Festi-
val of mid-1963) have only just been
released commercially or have apparently
sunk without trace.
And why are so many highly-publi-
cised English films so long in reaching
us —in particular “Lord of the Flies” and
“The Servant”? “Nothing But the Best”
is actually billed as a coming attraction;
but I don't suppose we’ll ever be allowed
to see “The Leather Boys”.
Two gripping, startlingly original Polish
films, Polanski’s “A Knife in the Water”
and Kawalerowicz’ “Mother Joan of the
Angels”, only survived brief runs—the
latter despite its titillating new title “The
Devil and the Nun”.
Ingmar Bergman was at his chilling
best in “Through a Glass Darkly”; his
early film “So Close to Life” was inter-
esting chiefly as a stage in his develop-
ment. Fellini’s intensely personal “8i”
for all its obscurantism had an hypnotic
fascination and antic humor; Antonioni’s
“Eclipse”, also personal in subject and
style, had more detachment and disci-
pline. Both directors used the camera
with genius, with amazing feeling for
gradations of light.
There were gauche, often downright
bad films from established directors—
Truffaut’s incomprehensibly overrated
“Shoot the Pianist”, Chabrol's elegantly
designed but garbled “Bluebeard”,
Vadim's “The Warrior's Rest” and his
positively barmy “Vice and Virtue”,
Clouzot's muddled but intermittently
entertaining “The Spies’’.
Rene Clement disappointed with “The
Day and the Hour” but redeemed himself
with that quirky bit of frivolity “The
Love Cage'’.
Two impressive films came from
England. The genuinely realistic director
John Schlesinger gave us the funny, com-
passionate “Billy Liar”. Ken Hughes,
too, treated “The Small World of Sammy
Lee” with realistic, unsentimental pity—-
words which can’t be applied to his
novelettish “Of Human Bondage”.
Films arrived with big but over-inflated
reputations—Joan Greenwood's film de-
but, “Sparrers Can't Sing”; Lindsay
Anderson’s affected “This Sporting Life”
(redeemed by Rachel Roberts’ splendid
performance), and Karel Reisz's and
Albert Finney's disastrous “Night Must
Fall”.
BEVERLEY TIVEY


Vintage 1964
Sad to say, the best films of the Ameri-
can year have been the oldies. On televi-
sion during 1964, feature films acquired
the biggest ratings, and after years of
doubting their popularity, the various
stations suddenly splurged, with marvel-
lous results. John Ford’s “The Grapes
of Wrath’’ was as much a masterpiece
as it had been more than 20 years before
(will Channel 9 now please show us “The
Young Mr Lincoln” and “Drums Along
the Mohawk”?), Otto Preminger’s
“Laura” preserved its smooth fascina-
tion, Cukor’s “Keeper of the Flame” dis-
played a formidable mastery of film
narrative (from a novel by the Australian
I. A. R. Wylie) and there were at least
two vintage examples of film noir. “Mad
Love” and “The Mask of Fu Manchu”.
None of the new films equalled the
enthusiasm or the skill of these survivors.
“Seven Days in May,” directed by John
Frankenheimer from a screenplay by
Rod Serling, was a first-class political
melodrama, ably acted by Fredric
March, Burt Lancaster and Edmond
O’Brien, but unfortunately a box-office
frost in Australia. “Charade,” “Come
Blow Your Horn” and “Sunday in New
York” were carefully packaged enter-
tainments with a cellophane wrapping,
the third, by the way, set in a New York
rendered so totally and unrecognisably
clean and sparkling that every shot be-
came a kind of visual euphemism. So,
too, the shots of Europe and America
in Preminger’s “The Cardinal,” a hagi-
ography played with rod-stiff impervious-
ness by a newcomer, Tom Tryon, and
photographed along old Saturday Even-
ing Post cover lines by Leon Shamroy
(John Huston’s crusty Archbishop was
admirable).
“Night of the Iguana” had some nice
camerawork by Figueroa, an amusing
impersonation of the world’s oldest (and,
to judge by the examples of his work
he insists on babbling to his grand-child,
least talented) poet, by Cyril Delevanti,
and some incorrigibly overblown dia-
logue by Tennessee Williams. “Marnie”
displayed Hitchcock at his most flabby
and complacent, its one potentially inter-
esting scene (the flashback to the frigid
heroine’s tormented childhood) ruined
by censor cuts. “America, America”
was handsomely made, showing that
Kazan’s talent for the medium is still
to be reckoned with, but over-long and
almost defiantly uncommercial. The
films of the year I got along with best
were “The Patsy”—a Jerry Lewis comedy
with a brilliantly funny first third, in-
cluding an hilarious music-lesson with
Hans Conried, and “The Seven Faces
of Dr Lao”: exquisitely designed, based
on one of my favorite books (by Charles
G. Finney), and directed and played
with great delicacy and charm.
CHARLES HIGHAM
SUNDRY SHOWS
THEATRE
MELBOURNE Comedy Theatre, Exhibi-
tion Street 32 321 1 Go Tell It On The Moun-
tain. Until January 16. (Reviewed 28/11/64.)
Her Majesty's Exhibition Street. 32 3211, A
Funny Thing Happened.
Princess, Spring Street. 32-1211. Finian's
Rainbow.
Tivoli Bourke Street 6? 2111 The Black and
White Minstrel Show. Then Alvin Ale y Dance
Theatre.
St Martin « theatre St Martin's Lane South
Yarra. 26 2188. Angels in Love. Until Janu-
ary 9.
SYDNEY Her Majesty's, Central Square.
211 0472 Camelot, Lerner and Loewe's extrava-
gant musical set for another, long run. (Re-
viewed 31/10/64.)
Ensemble, North Sydney 92 2181 Cages, by
Lewis John Carlino. Until end of January.
(Reviewed 21/11/64.)
Genesian, 420 Kent Street. 58 2500. The Ivory
Door by A. A. Milne.
Independent, North Sydney. 92 2718. The
Miser Alexander Archdal-'s production of the
Moliere classic. (Reviewed 7/11/64.) Until
January 2. Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays.
The Marriage of Mr Mississippi opens Janu-
ary 7
Phillip, Elizabeth Street. 61 9880. Is Australia
Really Necessary? With Miriam Karlin, Barbara
Wyndon and Darlene Johnson. Revised scripts,
funny performances. (Reviewed 17/10/64.)
Music Hall Restaurant, Neutral Bay 90 1237.
How The West Was Lost Noeline Brown, John
Unicomb and Sheilc Kennedy help make this
still one of the best nights in town.
New Theatre. 151 Willicm Street, East Sydney.
31 3237 Purlie Victorious, by Ossie Davis. A
satirical play of the Deep South, until end of
December
Pocket Playhouse, Sydenham. 55 6411. Black
Chiffon, by Lesley Storm, produced by John
Fleming Performances at 8 p.m. Thursdays,
Fridays and Saturdays.
Q Group Theatre, A.M.P., Circular Quay. 2 0530.
Dick Whittington and His Cat.
Royal, Castlereagh Streets 28 8255. Roaring
T wenties.
Tivoli, Castlereagh Street. 211 4288. Wizard
of Oz.
ADELAIDE Her Majesty's, 54 Grote
Street. 51 6171. How to Succeed. Until Janu-
ary 16.
BRISBANE Her Majesty's, Queen Street.
Carousel.
PERTH Playhouse, Pier Street. 21 5681.
Perth Gaieties.
ART
MELBOURNE Gallery A, 275 Toorak
Road. 24 4201. Christmas Exhibition to Decem-
ber 24. Then closed.
Australian Galleries, 35 Derby Street, Colling-
wood. 41 4303, 41 4382. Tony Woods, Joan
O'Loughlin. December 1-23. Then closed.
Leveson Street Gallery, Leveson Street, North
Melbourne. 30 4558. Nell Law: Antarctica Paint-
ings. December 13-24. Then closed.
National Gallery of Victoria Swanston Street.
32 4811. Domestic silver and the art of draw-
ing.
SYDNEY Art Gallery of NSW, Domain.
28 9860 Peter Stuyvesant Show. December 2-20.
Then closed.
Barry Stem Gallery 28 Slenmore Road, Pad-
dington. 31 7676. Five artists. December 9-22.
Then closed.
Clune Galleries, 59 Macleay Street. 35 1855.
Paintings by Boyd, Dobell, Drysdale and Nolan.
December 14-24. Then closed.
David Jones Gallery. Elizabeth Street. Bribsh
and European painters, from December 9.
Frances Jones Studio, 1 James Street, Wool-
lahra 32 3251 Various charity showings weekly
until Christmas. Then closed.
Rudy Komon Gallery, 124 Jersey Road, Wool-
lahra 32 2533. Christmas Anniversary Exhibi-
tion. December 2-31. Then closed.
Underwood Galleries. 48 Underwood Street,
Paddington 31 7058. Special Christmas Show.
Then closed.
NEWCASTLE Von Bertouch Galleries,
50 Laman Street. 2 3584. Fabrics and Jewel-
lery. Closed Wednesdays and Thursdays. Until
December 24. Then closed.
ADELAIDE Bonython Gallery, 88 Jerning-
ham Street, North Adelaide. 6 8672 Tom
Gleghorn. Until December 24. Then closed.
BRISBANE Queensland Art Gallery, Greg-
ory Terrace. Australian Sculpture. November 26
to January 2, 1965.
Johnstone Gallery, 6 Cintra Road, Bowen Hills.
5 2217. Alex Leckie. December 6-24. Then
closed.
PERTH Skinner Galleries, 31 Malcolm
Street. 21 9800. Norway Designs. December 15-
January 7.
HOBART Tasmanian State Art Gallery, 5
Argyle Street. 2 6038. Tasmanian Historical
Paintings.
(For dates of reopenings check with galleries
direct)


BOOKS
Sexameters
By D. J. ENRIGHT
Erotic Poetry: The Lyrics, Ballads, Idyls
and Epics of Love—Classical to Con-
temporary. Edited by William Cole.
Weidenfeld and Nicolson. 70s.
This, I imagine, is what is called a Bed-
side Book. No, not in that sense, not
what the Japanese describe as “pillow-
art”. A book for browsing in, I mean,
a book without much point or purpose.
Useful for inducing slumber rather than
waking you up. It certainly doesn't
qualify for the penalties—or rewards are
they?—dealt out at the Australian fron-
tiers to several recent publications.
The editor allows himself a very broad
interpretation of the word “erotic”: it
thus comprehends the anti-erotic. In-
deed the anthology seems to me rich in
the anti-erotic. Swift's verses about
Celia, despite the final disclaimer
(“Should I the Queen of Love refuse,
Because she rose from stinking ooze?”),
are an obvious example. Or,
Woman: that is to say
A body which the birds of prey
Disdain to take away.
This latter is a piece of wisdom from
the East, the Mecca of our Western ero-
tologists and sexual reformers, the cyno-
sure of our genuflections (one position
the Anglo-Saxon has mastered!). But
the West can be equally wise:
1 know but two good Houres that
women have,
' One in the Bed, another in the
Grave.
Or (they are said to order these matters
better in France) Laforgue's petulant epi-
tome: “all this dirt for just three minutes’
rapture!”
In time the contents of this anthology
range from a Babylonian fragment of
3000 BC to verses written in 1963. The
emotional range is rather less impressive.
Spitefulness, arising out of resentment, is
quite pronounced: many of these items
(though they may be held to celebrate
sex) hardly celebrate women. It might
even seem as if the poet is intent on get-
ting his own back: a case of the pen
proving mightier than the sword.
“Epigram” is widely pertinent:
You ask me how Contempt who
claims to sleep
With every woman that has ever
been
Can still maintain that women are
skin deep?
They never let him any deeper in.
The pox is what you get from women;
there is no hint as to how women come
by it. Women feature largely as objects,
to be acquired, used and excreted. Much
of the book resembles a posh butcher’s
shop, with a generous display of what
Whitman in a characteristically happy
phrase calls “the naked meat of the
body”. Thus,
Not too lean, and not too fat —
Choose midway between the two,
Neither globular nor flat;
Plump, just plump enough, will
do.
The odd thing is that the majority of
the female contributors (themselves a
minority) look at women in much the
same way as do the men. Women, we
can only suppose, consider making love
a man’s job. Or is it rather that they
consider making poetry a man’s job?
The book would suggest that female
emancipation is by no means as far ad-
vanced as we had assumed.
But there are exceptions, honorable or
dishonorable, among the frailer sex.
Muriel Stuart, Charlotte Mew and Sylvia
Townsend Warner contribute poems
which, whether erotic or not, are good,
and Edna St Vincent Millay turns the
tables very neatly. Occasionally a
woman’s blood makes certain demands
which necessitate the presence of a man,
but
let me make it plain:
1 find this frenzy insufficient reason
For conversation when we meet
again.
A thoroughly masculine attitude, to
judge from elsewhere.
What is there here, besides the grudges
and the whinings and the fairly plainly
anti-erotic (which —don’t tell me! —some
people find highly erotic, but then any
old thing is found erotic by somebody
or other)? There is a fair spread of
cheese-cake, some of it agreeable, some
of it disagreeably voyeuristic. George
Moore has a sonnet about a lady un-
dressing, bathing, and dressing again—
it’s the stockings that send him —and
there is an abundance of girdles and belts
and so on (and so off). Next comes the
“religious” department, with its systema-
tic confusion between bed and altar. In
his foreword, Stephen Spender associates
the erotic with the religious, because they
both “involve reverence for life, a sense
of mystery”. Well, there is religion and
religion. To me these latter-day imita-
tions of the Song of Songs are the least
appetising aspect of the anthology: wet-
blanket religiosity, neither fish nor flesh.
Pubic hair becomes “moist, golden coin”.
Ugh. And Whitman, the Universal
Lover, sounds plain ludicrous:
It is I, you women, I make my way,
l am stern, acrid, large, undissuad-
able, but 1 love you,
1 do not hurt you any more than is
necessary for you,
1 pour the stuff to start sons and
daughters fit for these States, 1
press with slow rude muscle,
I brace myself effectually, I listen to
no entreaties,
I dare not withdraw till 1 deposit
what has so long accumulated
within me.
No doubt it hurts him more than it
hurt's her. Before long the reader of
this book inclines to agree with Alex
Comfort (the poet, I mean, not the ero-
tologist) that
With better things in hand,
No one would dip a pen . . .
The moderns are mostly so conscious,
so knowing, voyeuristic, as if they were
writing for an anthology of erotic poetry
—reporting back with what they knew
already, for the book has little of the
element of genuine surprise or discovery
in it. Lawrence, though he appears here,
would surely have hated it. There is
little from the nineteenth century. The
eighteenth century is largely coy, the
seventeenth century (notably Carew)
coldly ornate, and the olde-worlde ye-
knowwe-whatte often tedious. My own
slim selection from this anthology would
include the three lady poets mentioned,
Lorca, Donne, Marvell’s “Coy Mistress”,
Robert Grave, Cavafy, the passage from
St John of the Cross, Ronald McCuaig’s
“Music in the Air”, Erich Kastner, Hedy-
los (the “Greek Anthology”), Roethke’s
“She was poor but she was honest” and
its counterpart, Hardy’s un-Hardyesque
poem “The Ruined Maid”, such frivoli-
ties (or honesties) as the anonymous
assurance,
Why blush, dear girl, pray tell me
why?
You need not, I can prove it;
For though your garter met my eye,
My thoughts were far above it,
or Matthew Prior's “A True Maid”,
No, no; for my virginity,
When 1 lose that, says Rose, I’ll
die:
Behind the elms, last night, cried
Dick,
Rose, were you not extremely
sick?
and Yeats’s “Leda and the Swan”.
Characteristically, this last poem is
placed in the section entitled “By-paths
and Oddities” (i.e., perversions). Most of
the good poems here are easily come by
in the normal course of reading: they
are good poems. As for their being
“erotic”, they only make that word seem
more ambiguous than ever. The epitaph


on this present undertaking is supplied
by Graves:
Nothing, agreed, is alien to love
When pure desire has overflown its
baulks,
But why must private sportiveness
be viewed
Through public spectacles?
“Perverts and Psychopaths”
An Infinity of Mirrors. Richard Condon.
Heinemann. 325. 6d.
The Author's Notes (two pages in length)
shows how industrious Richard Condon
has been in collecting the background
material for this novel. Indeed, the
reader of the preamble might be par-
doned for thinking that he is about to
begin an historical account of Nazi Ger-
many and the occupation of France in
World War 11. In a manner made fami-
liar by novelists, both past and present,
Condon sets his personal story (the early
married life of a French Jewess, Paule
Bernheim, and Wilhelm von Rhode, of
a wealthy Prussian family devoted to the
cause of the German army) against the
backdrop of public affairs and ends up
developing a situation in which the for-
tunes of the fictional characters are in-
volved in the big events of the day. So
this book, which concerns the persecution
of the Jews, shows how Willi's devotion
to the army alienates the woman who
loves him and prevents him (as it pre-
vents most of his fellow officers) from
seeing the truth about Hitler and his
gang until it is too late. Broken in body
and soul by his service to the state, Willi
takes his place in this sad parable of
our time. As Stauffenberg says, “He is
Germany . . . Broken by tyranny and
unable to understand what has happened
to him.”
One of Condon’s previous novels, “The
Manchurian Candidate”, was made into
a film, and the dust jacket to this volume
tells us that the author became a pro-
fessional novelist in 1957 after “a long
stint in the American film industry and
theatre”. “An Infinity of Mirrors” has
most of the ingredients for a successful
film: the moral issues are clear (to the
reader if not to all the participants), the
backgrounds have the sort of documen-
tary interest and authenticity which spells
reality for the public at large, the char-
acters are not deeply explored but are
varied and colorful, and the story builds
up considerable tension. In the final
scene we witness personal revenge being
taken at the time of the second great
assassination attempt on Hitler’s life and
the Allied invasion of Europe.
Given this conventional pattern, it is,
accordingly, rather strange that the early
chapters should exhibit here and there an
uncertainty of tone that is apt to be-
wilder the reader. Paule’s father, one
of the world’s greatest actors (and exhibi-
tionists), seems a cross between a hero
from the glossy pages and a comic opera
figure. The account of his funeral has
an attractive and exaggerated irony
which is most unexpected after what
seems to be the predominantly serious
tone of the preceding pages. Indeed, a
good deal of the prose in the early
stages is altogether too trite: Willi seemed
to be “trying to convey that they must
sqvor all the fragments of courtship
before they moved along, in good time
and in more reflective spirit, to the foot-
hills of the mountains of feeling and emo-
tion”. Or, again: “On his father’s side
he had come from a hum of lawyers, on
his mother’s side from a clink of bank-
ers.” Occasionally the author's indigna-
tion bursts through into vitality, as in
Chapter 10 where he begins his account
of the Gestapo and the scum who served
in it. Furthermore, there is a certain
amount of unnecessary or unassimilated
material, as, for instance, the humorous
story of Bernheim’s wager with M. Les-
rois, a famous gourmet, and the detailed
accounts of Nazi activities in both Ger-
many and in occupied Paris. Condon
sometimes falls a victim to his desire for
.accuracy and documentation.
Despite all this, the personal story,
which becomes increasingly Paule's story,
develops a momentum as the book pro-
gresses and, as it does, the quality of the
■writing improves. It is Paule who rea-
lises the horror of what she and Willi
have done to the repulsive Drayst, the SS
colonel who in his lust for her has
brought about the death of her son—and
she realises her sin as soon as she has
committed it. To Willi this is simply an
act of justice. The final touch here is
right; our sympathies, which she has
just forfeited, are with her again at the
end—for what are the limits of human
degradation and endurance, and what the
possibilities for virtue in a society domi-
nated by perverts, psychopaths and
criminals?
R. G. GEERING
Tub-thumping Tourist
Take Me to Russia. Colin Simpson. Angus
and Robertson. 455.
There are eight green pages of “practi-
cal travel information” and useful Rus-
sian words at the back of “Take Me to
Russia”. You could probably rip them
out if you thought they would be useful;
it’s unlikely that any traveller would want
to lug the whole book round with him.
Because for all its size—49o pages of
text, plus notes and so on—there’s not
very much there. This is understandable
since the first two hundred pages consist
not of travel notes but potted history,
with interspersed personal touches. There
are all sorts of information—that Stalin’s
second and third toes were joined, that
“Engels never married, contenting himself
with a lowly mistress”—and it is given
in a vigorous racy style that reduces
Russian history to a comic succession of.
bed and blood. The facts are probably
true enough; but the emphasis seems
appallingly wrong. And though Colin
Simpson continually cites his authorities
—the standard accessible text books—
he inspires no confidence.
Simpson’s tone is continually brash:
“Where the Soviet Union is backward it
just has to come forward, and there is
neither sense nor service in making ex-
cuses for it not doing so.” And the tub-
thumping apart, what does he mean by
coming forward? He repeatedly remarks
on the appearance of Russians as “un-
fashionable”, as if fashion were some
moral evaluative absolute. He was hor-
rified with the citizens of Leningrad:
“Men's suits did not look well-tailored
and it was common to see men wearing
the graceless combination of socks and
sandals instead of shoes.” This sort of-
observation, though, is the personal
touch to the book, the individual in-
gredient to the “Reader’s Digest” back-
ground information.
He’s snipy too. He describes a Red
Square parade, when he tried to see
Khrushchev: “I could see his whole face
only occasionally, when someone moved
forward; but mostly I could just see one
side of the back of his head and his neck,
which is not his best feature.” It is not
very sophisticated sniping—nothing like
those good jokes from Radio Armenia
(a non-existent station) and elsewhere,
which Simpson includes.
That sort of comment makes the book
not provocative (which is a word Colin
Simpson often uses to describe questions
he asked) but irritating. It is allied to a
frequent “plain man speaks” obtrusive-
ness, like “Lenin couldn’t stand Maya- -
kovsky's verse. A good deal of it I can’t
stand myself . . .” This sort of assertion":
is neither interesting nor helpful, and the
paragraphs on Mayakovsky that follow
are hardly adequate for dealing with that
poet. Yet strangely, one of the most
interesting chapters in the book is that .
dealing with the philistinism of official
Soviet policy on the arts. -
Of course there is much in the book
that is worth reading. The information
on the disparity of incomes in Russia is
striking evidence of the abandonment of
equality of reward; on the other hand*
Colin Simpson impartially points out
great achievements of the Soviet system
since the war in housing and farming.
And the travels in the Central Asian re-
publics really make them want to be seen
—despite the continual complaints about
hotels, airports and the one bad steak.
But the photographs—even the smudgy


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. D, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
Intourist ones so supersede the text
here. They tell their own story without
the querulous, opinionated, moralising
and distracting intercessions of the tour-
. ist. It is they that give the atmosphere of
snowbound Moscow and desert Bukhara.
And they make you want to read Marco
Polo’s travels, Yevtushenko’s poems, Pas-
ternak and Mayakovsky, Solzhenitsyn and
Sholokov, to read Marx and Lenin and
Trotsky and to try and understand for
yourself something about Russia and
Marxism.
R. M. WILDING
Crisis of Conscience
Nowhere to Go. Alan Cowan. Hutchinson.
235.
The Red Baize Door. Ellen Ryder. New
Authors Ltd. 265. 6d.
Although their main themes are entirely
different, these two books show quite an
astonishing similarity in that they both
take a well-worn, almost threadbare idea
and examine it from a narrow, claustro-
. phobic and very personal angle. In
neither case has the author any real
solution to offer to the problems involved.
In fact both writers, in their own way,
concede defeat: at the end just as in the
beginning of “Nowhere to Go” the scien-
tist is still trying to reconcile his con-
. science with his work, while in “The Red
Baize Door” the unfulfilled wife is still
trapped by her love for her child in a
burnt-out marriage. The reader is left
with the impression that the search for
an answer is being continued although
the books have closed.
Neither author makes an attempt to
view these problems from outside or from
■a universal aspect. In fact, what gives
these two novels a certain fascination is
that both Brian the scientist and Leda
the housewife are ordinary human beings
who find themselves trapped in an en-
vironment not entirely of their own
making which is growing too much for
them.
Alan Cowan’s hero is jolted into sud-
den awareness by a Security inquiry
about his innocent friendship with some
suspected Communists, reinforced by a
symbolic accident in which his small
child is almost killed by a farm-machine
■he had been trying to mend. Brian takes
refuge in flight, tramping the country-
side, joining up with some petty criminals
because they, too, are against society, but
he is too intelligent to fool himself for
long. In the end he returns and takes
a job as an unskilled worker, only to be
tormented by his over-active, unused
brain which churns on, giving him no
peace.
“The Red Baize Door” is the visible
division between the unsatisfactory
country-life Leda lives with her wood-
carver husband and their unbelievable,
prococious six-year-old daughter, Tottie,
and the flat beyond the door which she
has already furnished with a dream-
lover even before the writer Eustace and
his thistledown-like sister Dorothy
appear as tenants. Much 4 passionate
threshold-crossing ensues, not only be-
tween Leda and Eustace but also between
Leda and Dorothy who has Lesbian lean-
ings.
Leda’s husband, who has condoned
adultery as long as he is not aware of it
officially, refuses a divorce and Eustace,
not without relief, departs again for
London. There are indications that this
would-be marriage, too, could soon have
become a desert. So Leda the housewife
waits on in the dark for a black swan
that isn’t there.
In their own chosen small-scale worlds
both authors write competently, and in
Alan Cowan’s case sometimes with
inspiration.
MARIA WOLKOWSKY
Unsung Heroes
The Explorers. William Joy. Shakespeare
Head Press. 275. 6d.
Confronted by the challenge of a new
and untamed country, what extra quality
is it that makes certain men willing to
suffer hardships and risk their lives to
act as its pathfinders and open it up for
settlement? “The Explorers” (a follow-
up to “The Bushrangers”, written in
collaboration with Tom Prior and pub-
lished earlier this year) does much to
answer this question and, in bringing to-
gether material from various sources,
fills a gap that one is surprised to find
existed. Apart from a briefer Methuen
“Outline”, there seems to be no book
which presents the exploration of Aus-
tralia in a comparable manner. Our
early explorers are perhaps not quite so
well thought of (certainly not as much
written of) as our bushrangers, but their
adventures were equally exciting and
violent, and William Joy is inclined to
emphasise this aspect in his robust re-
porting of their expeditions.
Beginning with the landfalls made on
various parts of the coast by early Euro-
pean navigators whose only aim was
trade and loot, Mr Joy takes us up to
1879, by which time major exploration
parties had criss-crossed most of the con-
tinent, and then completes the record to
1936 when Colson proved The Simpson
could be conquered. Tribute is paid to
the settlers, the overlanders and the gold-
seekers for their contributions, and the
final chapters are devoted to summarising
the ultimate fates of the “Sea Men” and
the “Land Men”.
Maps, indexes and two extensive pic-
ture sections complete a popularised but
informative outline of practically the
whole of Australia’s exploratory story.
As a Tasmanian, my only beef is that
the island State is denied existence on the
endpaper maps and barely mentioned in
the text.
TOM PICKERING
Message out of Hell
Into Battle, 1914-18. Ernest Parker. Long-
mans. 235.
Ernest Parker is a member of the edi-
torial staff of Longmans, Green, a
veteran of two wars and a well-known
verse anthologist. One day his son dis-
covered some of his old diaries, and
this unpretentious volume was published
as a result.
It represents no striking addition to the
long list of personal records of the great
holocaust, but it is welcome nevertheless.
The author was a youth of seventeen
when he joined Kitchener’s Army, and he
mentions that in the queue at his recruit-
ing office stood a boy of fifteen who was
killed at the Somme a couple of years
later. In an intimate, straightforward but
somewhat old-fashioned narrative we are
shown what it was like to belong to that
host of citizen soldiers who, short of
many essential items of equipment, were
rushed through their basic training to
be thrown into the front line in Flanders
and Northern France. Mr Parker
served first with the Durhams and later
with the Royal Fusiliers before, twice
wounded, he ended up as an Intelligence
Officer.
The book is perhaps slightly unusual
in that it stresses the grim fortitude of
the common soldier more than his suffer-
ings, though these are not forgotten.
There is a particularly interesting des-
cription of a successful trench raid, and
passages which strongly evoke the feel
of close combat. But the whole has not
the powerful immediacy of “Her Privates
We”, and the frequent inclusion of
stanzas from poems of the period is a
little irritating. What does come out is
how all wars resemble each other for
the men who have to bear the brunt—the
true victims. But Ernest Parker was
not a Tommy to ask questions.
He tells a story which, to me at least,
throws new light on the famous “report”
that Russian troops with snow on their
boots had landed in Britain. A journa-
list, noting the unfamiliar uniforms of
Lovat Scouts, sent to Scarborough after
a German naval bombardment, asked
where they came from, and was told,
“from Ross-shire”. Ross-shire became
Russia. As simple as that!
DAVID MARTIN


CONCRETE INDUSTRIES LIMITED
PARENT COMPANY OF THE MONIER ORGANISATION
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS TO MEMBERS
AT THE 28th ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING HELD ON WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER 25, 1964, AT THE REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE COMPANY,
MONIER SQUARE, VILLAWOOD, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I now have pleasure in presenting for
adoption the Directors’ Report and Bal-
ance Sheet and Accounts for the year
1963-64, as contained in the Annual Report
which has been circulated to all Members.
With your permission I propose to take it
as read.
I think the Office Staff has to be con-
gratulated for the excellent manner in
which the information has been presented.
Incidentally the cost of the Report was
2s. 6’>d. per copy.
I am pleased to say that the improved
prospects which I foretold at the last
Annual Meeting have eventuated and the
increased profits have continued through-
out the year and into the new financial
year. Trading for the first quarter of the
current year is ahead of Budget, and
shows a satisfactory improvement on the
corresponding period of the previous year.
It has been a matter of great satisfaction
to your Board of Directors to return to
the Final 5 p.c. Dividend.
The most important event of the year
was the sale of the Subsidiary Company,
Standard Portland Cement, for the sum of
£3,710.000 cash. There were several reasons
for this step being taken.
A few years ago your Directors decided
to make a takeover offer to the Board of
Standard Portland Cement in order to
assure the continued supply of cement to
this Company. The offer was successful
and Standard Portland Cement was in-
corporated in our Organisation.
Standard Portland Cement was faced
with expenditure in excess of £2m. for the
installation of an additional kiln, with
ancillary equipment, or be at a disadvant-
age with competitors in the industry. Such
expenditure would have meant a reduced
return to Capital in this Company for
some years to come.
The Directors decided that the excellent
offer for Standard made funds available
for investment in a more rewarding man-
ner for the Shareholders.
At the same time we have successfully
negotiated a cement supply contract
guaranteeing our raw material not only
in N.S.W but extending to Victoria in the
most favorable terms; thus the main pur-
pose of entering the field of cement pro-
duction was negated.
I now come to a matter which has been
the subject of a great deal of speculation-
the use to which the £3,710,000 will be put.
I think your Board of Directors has de-
monstrated its recognition of the fact that
the Shareholders are the owners of the
Company. Proof of this is the issue of
new shares at par, regardless of the pre-
mium placed on them by the Stock Ex-
changes, and by the issue of Bonus Shares
from time to time.
However, the aftermath of 1960 brought
on a difficult trading period with intense
and irrational competition, and your
Board was compelled to make a realistic
review of policy.
Funds had to be conserved in the best
interests of the Company and its Share-
holders. Our aim is the progressive im-
provement of earning rate to Capital with
increasing dividend payments. At the
same time, sufficient funds need to be
retained for Working Capital and ex-
pansion in our more profitable lines.
Our Company has continued its growth
and development and expanding sales
require finance.
Funds from the sale of Standard Port-
land Cement would seem to indicate a
return of some Capital to Shareholders,
thus reducing the amount of Capital to
be serviced. Shareholders would then have
been faced with the problem of re-invest-
ing the money in avenues with at least
the same potential. In the Directors’
opinion the potential for future substantial
gains in your Company is very real.
The progress your Company has made
in certain of its fields of operation and
the equipment which it has developed,
places it in the forefront of these opera-
tions throughout the World. We are in
the process of extending these operations
both in Australia and Overseas.
It would not be in the best interests of
the Company to disclose the projects or
their locations, until they are established,
but your Report mentions some already in
production, but I am able to tell you that
more than £2m. is provided for extensions
tc roofing tile and pipe manufacturing
here and overseas. A substantial amount
of this has already been spent, and some
works are turning in profits. £|m. has
been paid for 833,333 shares in the new
Cement Company.
The erection by our Building Company
of the Hurstville Super Centre, in which
we have a 51 p.c. shareholding, requires
over £lm. finance until fully completed
and leased.
It will be seen that the funds will be
gainfully employed.
The Board is proceeding with the dis-
posal of such investments as do not con-
tribute their share to a fair return on
Capital.
I have told you that profits are higher
for the first quarter of this year as com-
pared with last year, and your Directors
are confident that this trend will continue
and that the minimum Dividend for the
coming year will be 10 p.c.
I would like to correct the misconception
that Standard Portland Cement was our
main source of revenue. While Standard
produced a steady profit, the increase in
turnover and profit during the year under
review came from the other Companies
in the Organisation.
Audited accounts on the North-West
Cape project submitted at the end of their
fiscal year by the major partners, Paul
Hardeman, Inc., of U.S.A., who are mana-
ging the contract, show profitable opera-
tions and interim figures submitted since
show increased profits, but as advised in
the Directors’ Report no proportion of our
share of the indicated profits has been
brought into account in this Company’s
books.
On the Snowy Mountains, the Jindabyne
Tunnel Joint Venture, where we are the
major and managing partner, progress is
ahead of schedule and costs are below esti-
mate. You will notice in your Report that
the amount invested in these two projects
as at 30th June was only £105,000.
Your copy of the Report deals fully with
our activities in all States and New
Guinea, the South Australian staff has
done a particularly fine job and sales and
profits have shown a gratifying increase.
Our Building Section contributed only a
modest profit to the overall result, but it
is a means of utilising our manufactured
products, and is not a large part of the
whole Organisation, which is manufac-
turing for a wide range of building and
contracting firms.
When the preliminary announcement of
the year’s results was given to the Stock 1
Exchanges, the figures published in the
financial columns of some of the papers
bore little resemblance to the report sub-
mitted by us, and it was considered that
the best way to ensure an accurate picture
being presented to the Shareholders was
by way of an advertisement which would
appear exactly as submitted.
Much has been said from time to time
relative to Hobart Bridge. I would like
to again put the record straight on this
matter:
1. Our work on the bridge was purely
a manufacturing project carried out in a
factory, set up for the purpose, adjacent
to the Bridge. There we manufactured
precast, prestressed concrete components
much the same as we have been doing at
Villawood and other factories for the past
14-15 years.
2. We were definitely not the principal
contractor who built the Bridge, but we
subcontracted for the supply of compon-
ents.
3. The losses, as previously publicised
are entirely written off, were not incurred
because of underestimating the job or by
any marked inefficiency, but were the
result of aspects largely beyond our con-
trol and on which we are covered by cer-
tain contractual rights.
4. Very substantial claims are now under
negotiation which include compensation
for delays and their ancillary effects. I
make no forecast of amounts which may
be recovered, but best legal advice indi-
cates our claims are properly and soundly
based.
In conclusion I repeat that prospects for
the coming year look bright, and results
should be gratifying.
Once again I must express on behalf of
the Board of Directors our thanks to the
Management, Executives and Staff for
their loyal co-operation and hard work
throughout the year. All sections of the
Company, including the men in the field
and workshops have given of their best.
This includes all those in Associated Com-
panies and part Subsidiaries. Their efforts
have produced what can be considered a
very satisfactory year’s result.
N. MULRONEY
Chairman of Directors.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Blocking Inside Knowledge
The move by the Victorian Government to block leak-
ages of information on takeover deals is a step in the
right direction.
No one imagines that official action can prevent the
misuse of inside knowledge. At least, though, the Stock
Exchange can block people from taking advantage of
knowledge to which they are not entitled.
The Chief Secretary, Mr Rylah, states that the Victorian
Government plans to force any company proposing a take-
over offer to give notice to the Stock Exchange before the
start of business on the day the formal offer is made. To
enforce this proposed legislation (likely to be introduced
next autumn), directors, secretaries and company officers
probably would become liable to prosecution.
Under existing Stock Exchange regulations, the company
which receives the takeover offer is obliged to notify the
Exchange immediately. But it is obvious that, in the time
which elapses while the directors meet to consider the offer
and issue statements, a leakage of information can occur.
Even after notifying the Stock Exchange during the day,
there is some time lapse before the public becomes aware
of the offer. Investors, therefore, will welcome any moves
to restrict the use of inside information.
Bundles for Britain
T>ritain’s move to cut consumer spending, restrict over-
drafts and to impose a capital gains tax on all goods
sold for personal profit was in line with general expectations.
The proposal will not affect productive efforts to expand
essential export lines. It will affect building developers
and hire-purchase sales.
It is even being suggested that some of the property
developers will look further afield to places like Australia.
The banks have tightened up on loans for property deve-
lopment and loans to hire-purchase companies, so there is
no doubt that consumer spending will be restricted. Of
course it will leave more money available for football pools,
where winnings remain untaxed. The art trade also re-
ceives a jolt, because the capital gains tax will include pro-
fits on works of art.
New York remains jittery about Britain’s ability to over-
come its balance of payments problem, following reports
that Britain is encountering difficulty in replacing the recent
short-term loan of 3 billion dollars used to stave off devalu-
ation.
It has been pointed out in the US that any loan to Bri-
tain would need to be heavily supported by the US and
would need to be for a period of between three to seven
years.
Without heavy US support for such a loan, the European
nations would not come to the party. However, the Ameri-
cans consider that a long-term replacement of Britain’s
current 3 billion dollars temporary credit would place a
serious strain on the US balance of payments. It is sug-
gested that a minimum of 2 billion dollars would be re-
quired, the bulk of which would need to be found by
Uncle Sam.
Further, it is pointed out that Britain is not in a position
to borrow additional money from the International Mone-
tary Fund without getting approval from other members.
Such approval is unlikely, because it is known that Britain
would be borrowing merely to bolster sterling.
Either way it is unlikely that Britain can receive a sym-
pathetic hearing on loans until the effect of the present in-
ternal measures begin to show up—probably not for 3
months or more.
European members of the IMF would insist on some
definite financial assurances, possibly underwritten by
America, before they would agree to Britain’s borrowing
from its third line of credits at IMF.
Already in debt, the Wilson Government is in no mood
to be held to ransom and it would appear there will be
plenty of urging for Britain to pull herself up by the boot
straps but not too many offers of financial assistance, unless
prompted by America. The fact that the merchant bank
of Knowles and Foster crashed shortly after the credit
squeeze only served to undermine confidence in financial
circles, where the “play safe” policy normally is that you
don’t lend money to people in trouble.
Space Saving
Sydney Chamber of Commerce has been agitating for
some time for legislation which will permit the accept-
ance in court of photographic copies of documents as
evidence.
Its representation to the NSW Attorney-General has
prompted a draft Bill which is being circulated for dis-
cussion and criticism.
If the legislation is approved, many business organisa-
tions will breathe a sigh of relief on being able to eliminate
thousands of acres of stored documents.
Experience of microfilm files in America has shown a
tremendous saving in costs by releasing vast areas of space.
Government offices in particular should be able to take
advantage of such a process if photographic documents can
be accepted at law.
CONTENTS INCLUDE...
PAGE
The economy in mid-sixties 41
A new era for minerals . . 42
Acr s eminence 46
"Speculator" faces the new year 47
Quarrel about land settlement 49


Coal on the Move
Awhile Australia’s embattled copper industry waits upon
** resolution of the Mount isa conflict, and in the mean-
time suffers a total ban upon exports, coal continues to
chalk up some modest export triumphs. Coal, too, has
its problems, notably domestic competition with petroleum
products. Here, though, the Joint Coal Board is doubt-
less expecting the forthcoming Tariff Board inquiry on oil
refining to lead to the glimmerings of a national fuel policy.
In evidence of all-round efficiency, the Coal Board has
just been able to announce that overseas shipments from
NSW “broke several records” during November. Of
458,000 tons shipped, certainly a record for any four
weeks since the Board’s establishment in 1947, Japan took
410,000 tons.
The eleven months to November 28 saw shipment of
3,308,000 tons, which tops the previous peak of 3,162,000
tons sent overseas during the full 1961-62 year.
Better still, the Board can still look forward to expan-
sive foreign markets. Japanese orders are increasing sub-
stantially; inquiries from other consumers give every chance
of widening the export range.
A dramatic measure of Japan’s growing demands comes
from Queensland, where Thiess-Peabody-Mitsui appears
on the verge of signing a contract to furnish the Japanese
steel mills with 29,600,000 tons of coal spread over the
next thirteen years.
Output from Thiess-Peabody-Mitsui’s Moura field will
be steadily lifted to a maximum 2,500,000 tons a year. The
necessary railway from Moura to the coast at Gladstone
should be built by 1968.
Australia’s remarkable year in mineral exploitation is
examined in detail by “Croesus” on page 42.
Sharing Manpower
A generally favorable year could hardly be expected
** to close without the endemic skilled labor shortage
getting shown up in one way or another. The latest em-
ployment figures and a chorus of company chairmen make
obvious the need to grasp this economic nettle, and soon.
Something of the picture, together with the perils, was
conveyed by the otherwise glowing annual report from
Massey-Ferguson Holdings,
Australia’s biggest tractor
maker. The year to October
31 saw the group reach a
record £1,506,966 profit after
a 20 p.c. advance in sales.
Cheerfully confronting the
still buoyant rural sector,
Massey-Ferguson is forced to
confess doubts on the possi-
bility of maintaining expanded
production schedules. Direc-
tors speak of a critical labor
situation, knowing the cur-
rent year will yield a con-
tinuation of strong demand.
Already the 1963-64 year
obliged them to sub-contract
on implements “less signifi-
cant in terms of sales volume”
than tractors. The shortage of
manpower and technical
skills also led to abnormal
overtime.
As The Bulletin has pre-
"And whose little status symbol might you be?"
viously indicated, the problem at present afflicts most
developed industrial countries. A pretty example of their
common plight is furnished by Canada.
Canada is about to arrange with Japan’s Ministry of
Foreign Affairs to allow skilled workers in various fields
to leave Japan. A Tokyo office of the Canadian Immigra-
tion Ministry will be established early in 1965.
Yet manpower scarcity, curiously enough, remains one
of Japan’s major industrial worries. Tales are told of
Japanese newspapers needing two whole pages to print
advertisements offering jobs on increasingly more attractive
terms than only a year or two ago.
That may not sound very much when compared with
a few Australian papers. It is a portent, though, from
such a heavily-populated country.
Golden Arguments
T’he South African and Australian Governments, together
A with a great bevy of individual producers, make a very
vocal group in favor of increasing the price of gold. They
have just been reinforced, in no uncertain terms, by the
chairman of Emperor Mines Ltd, Mr J. F. Wren.
Mr Wren reminded his annual meeting that the gold
price had stayed at 35 dollars an ounce since 1934. Con-
sistent rejection of any change by the US Government was
particularly firm “because it would be equivalent to depre-
ciation of the US dollar”.
In the last thirty years, the dollar’s purchasing power
had “declined considerably”, Mr Wren claimed, so “it
would appear that there is a refusal to admit that sub-
stantial depreciation has already occurred”.
Of course, American monetary authorities still possess
the luxury of retorting that the dollar has shrunk to a
lesser degree than most other currencies. Staunch as of
yore, the US Treasury only last week rebuked the National
Planning Association for daring to suggest lifting the gold
price in the interests of world liquidity.
With some acerbity, a Treasury spokesman is reported
to have said that any price increase “would destroy the
liquidity provided by existing currency and credit arrange-
ments which depend upon confidence that the price of gold
will remain unaltered”.
As for the actual producers,
Mr Wren gave solid domes-
tic reasons for his viewpoint:
“So long as this policy is fol-
lowed, there is no question
but that the gold-mining in-
dustry all over the world will
continue in a depressed state,
as the time is approaching
when improved mechanisa-
tion and research and increas-
ed production will not be able
to contend with possible fur-
ther rises in costs.”
He gloomily described the
necessity of confining opera-
tions to mining of high-grade
ore. “Prospecting of any but
the more promising areas will
decline and the position
might well be that there will
be an acute shortage of gold,
due to an insufficient supply,
to support currency require-
ments,” Mr Wren predicted.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Mid-stream in the ’Sixties
The penalty of inadequate immigration
will look back on the first
half of the ’sixties with mixed feel-
ings and, it is hoped, our politicians and
administrators with many lessons learnt.
It is not that our economic position is
anything but highly satisfactory as we
launch out on the second half of the
decade. Indeed, few countries can boast
a better one. It is only that with better
management our economic performance
these last five years could have been so
much improved.
It will be recalled that w'e started the
period on a high boom note. For nearly
a year the authorities allowed the
pressure on resources to have its head in
all directions, until balance of payments
clouds drove the authorities to take
exceptional measures to contain them. In
retrospect, these measures look to have
been taken far too late and, at least some
of them, to have been ill-devised. The
upshot was a heavy legacy of dis-
equilibrium, whose correction was
tortuous. The economic toll was painful,
but in the end we made up the lost
ground and in the last eighteen months
were heading vigorously into higher
country.
Opinions differ on whether the two or
more years of disequilibrium which
blighted the period were the inevitable
consequence of laissez faire philosophy.
Classical economists would read it as
the self-inflicted aftermath of an uncon-
trolled investment boom and, whatever
the authorities had done in November.
1960, we would not have escaped it.
Whether the economic history of those
years is an advertisement for the bridling
of investment is another matter. Some
people will argue that growth by leaps
and bounds and to hell with the lapses
gets equally good, if not better, results
and would still prefer the monetary
authorities to shut up shop and the
Treasury to let things ride, taking the
good times with the bad.
QJome comparisons with the previous
five years, taking for statistical con-
venience the period between the fiscal
years 1953-54 and 1958-59 for this pur-
pose, show how, over a period, things
even out. In the latest five years con-
sumer prices rose 11 p.c. and in the pre-
vious five. 14 p.c. Average weekly earn-
ings rose by about the same, a shade
over 24 p.c. in both periods. Wholesale
prices increased by 2.9 p.c. in the latest
and by 5 p.c. in the earlier period.
This is a pretty remarkable closeness
in price and wage movements. It looks
all the more remarkable when set against
the background of import and export
prices and the terms of trade. In the
latest period, import prices rose 4.7 p.c.
compared with an 8 p.c. rise in the
previous five years, export prices rose
33.3 p.c. compared with a fall of 31.5
p.c. over the earlier period, while,
whereas in the last five years the terms
of trade improved by 35 p.c., in the
previous five they deteriorated by 31 p.c.
In terms of market prices, the average
annual growth of gross national product
is not so markedly different in the two
J. H. D. MARKS
periods, 7.95 p.c. a year in the latest as
against 7.3 p.c. In terms of constant
prices, the average annual increase was
about 4} p.c. in the earlier period and
probably something around 6 p.c. for
the latest, but that is a theoretical
statistical conception and not, perhaps,
a very reliable guide to movements in
physical output of goods and services.
The greater increase in GNP over the
latest period reflects a much better labor
absorption performance in the period
(particularly in the last two years), when
employment increased by 348,400 com-
pared with only 256.000 in the previous
five years. (Of the total increase of
458.700 in the work force, including
89,000 Government employees, in the
last five years, about 32i p.c. were em-
ployed by manufacturing industry, 20}
p.c. in community and business services
such as education, health services, social
welfare and so on, 18i p.c. in commerce,
8 p.c. in finance and property, and 6
p.c. in building and construction, to
name the main avenues of additional
employment.)
As at the beginning of the period, now
at the end of it investment is at high
tide. The difference is that now the
authorities have accepted the challenge
with their new-frontier interest rate
policy and are being supported by savings
on a massive scale. While not doing any-
thing very radical to ease the volume of
investment spending, none the less they
have been applying both psychological
and interest rate pressures to good effect
for the last nine months or so. In the
absence of speculative fever and its out-
workings in real estate and stock markets,
and also of any real breakaway in
internal prices, this monetary policy has
so far succeeded in keeping investment
within tolerable limits. Certainly there
is little evidence in retail sales of the
usual multiplying effect of investment
spending unduly swelling the spending
stream. For that the authorities have to
thank a persistently high propensity to
save, which continues to be reflected in
massive increases both in savings banks
deposits and in fixed deposits of all
cheque-paying banks.
high significance of the latter two
influences in keeping the economy on
a relatively even keel in the current situa-
tion of record income generation from
practically all major sources and strongly
rising hire-purchase outstandings is un-
questionable. Compare their recent
movements with those in 1959-60, when
the economic yeast was rising very
rapidly and leading on to the boom. In
1959-60 savings banks deposits increased
by £132 million. Last year they rose by
£270 million, more than double the
earlier year, and in the four months to
October were running at an annual rate
of £312 million despite only a moderate
performance in the latter month.
The recent step-up in fixed deposits in
cheque - paying banks is even more
striking. In 1959-60 cheque-paying banks
increased their total interest - bearing
deposits by only £26 million, whereas in
1963-64 the increase was £83.6 million.
Thanks to higher interest rates and new
facilities introduced, these deposits have
since, in the space of four months, swept
up a further £147.8 million to reach
£859.2 million.
Also integral to the whole exercise of
cushioning the high rate of investment
at the end of 1964 are the vital factors,
examined here last week, of record
primary and secondary production, the


high level of overseas funds (around £B3O
million at present) and capital inflow (at
the annual rate of about £3OO million),
and the current strength of our balance
of international payments position as a
whole. We are in a much superior
position on all these fronts than we were
at the end of 1959. Even with the
probability of having to milk overseas
funds on a big scale for defence from
now on, the authorities are right in draw-
ing comfort from the high level of over-
seas funds and its supporting capital
inflow, overseas trading flows and the
continuance of favorable terms of trade.
(Despite the drop in wool prices and a
small increase in the index of import
prices, the terms of trade, thanks largely
to increases in metal prices, have
deteriorated only fractionally since June.)
picture as the year, and half the
-*• decade, are ending is one of buoyant
investment and personal incomes. It is
buttressed by a solid background of
savings, production and overseas re-
sources to draw on to help keep the
goods’ pipelines full. Money is exceed-
ingly flush (even if slightly shy of Gov-
ernment loans) but there is little specu-
lative fever. The stock market is dull
and under the shadows of a watchful Dr
Coombs, a delicate international situa-
tion and the pressures on sterling. It
doesn’t look a situation likely to lead to
a boom in the early months of 1965.
It is a challenging situation all round.
Probably a lull would do the economy
no harm, provided it was used to con-
solidate the great gains achieved in the
last two years, to absorb the new batch
of teenagers coming on to the labor mar-
ket in higher numbers than ever before,
and to prepare the way for the higher
number of migrants expected next year.
Indeed, the next forward move might
have to wait on the training of the new
additions to the labor force and the ex-
pected upsurge in immigration
The economy is now paying the
penalty for timidity over immigration in
the recession years, as a result of which
we only managed to get net immigration
of 366,848 in the first five years of the
’sixties compared with 420,444 in the
previous five years. It sunk to as low
as 48,412 in 1961-62!
If the economy is paying the penalty
of inadequate immigration, so is the
nation in population growth. In the
first five years of the ’sixties the popula-
tion grew by 1,079,030 to reach
11,135,030 by June, 1964. This gain was
only 9000 more than in the previous five
years. So when Mr J. H. D. Marks told
the shareholders of Development Finance
Corporation in Sydney last week that
immigration was our prime need, he was
speaking the stark truth.
CROESUS
Sweeter than Sugar
Into a new minerals era
"WfiTH a lot of last year’s sweetness gone
out of sugar, this year it has been
the turn of minerals to provide the high
drama in the commodity world. Appro-
priately enough the most intense scene,
the confrontation at Mt. Isa, is being
played right out to the end.
If nothing else unusual had occurred
on the Australian minerals stage than the
first piping of locally-produced crude
oil into commercial channels, this would
have been an historic year for the in-
dustry. It is the outstanding event and
everything else that’s happened is some-
what dwarfed in significance. Nonethe-
less, some of the other developments cap-
tured the imagination also.
The dramatic content of the Moonie
oil flow was not merely in that the first
D. T. GRAVES
barrels came through the pipe to Bris-
bane but also in the price conflict waged
between the interested parties in its
marketing. Even now, only an interim
settlement of the price has been evolved.
When the original agreements have to be
renegotiated next year, drama is likely
to flare up again.
The arguments are bound to become
increasingly intense now that the volume
of oil available is going to be so much
greater as a result of Union-Kern-AOG’s
further commercial find at Alton, from
which Kern’s resident manager, Mr
Graves, has assured us supplies will be
marketed in due course. The bigger the
available supply of Australian crude avail-
able for refining here, the greater the dis-
comfort of the internationally-owned
refineries. The pressures on them will in-
crease in 1965. It will be up to the Gov-
ernments, both State and Federal, to
hammer out a national fuel policy, at the
very least in respect to oil production
and usage.
On this it is worth noting that in the
first four months of 1964-65, net imports
of petroleum, exclusive of freights, were
running at an annual rate of £l5O mil-
lion a year, as against an annual rate of
£112.0 million in the same period last
year.
There were other notable fruits from
the biggest expenditure yet in Australian
oil search this year. Not only were there
gas finds in several States, from which
sprang new possibilities for com-
mercial development, but also two other
highly significant oil strikes far afield at
two widely dispersed sites in WA, Bar-
row Island and Yardarino. A visit to
these remote locations in mid-year gave
confidence that they could both be
developed into commercial fields, with
the odds probably higher on Yardarino
as the more immediate prospect. These
odds seemed to shorten when the third
well in that area turned up trumps to-
wards the end of the year.
To cap a year of several oil and natu-
ral gas discoveries, the year ended with
Esso Exploration and a BHP subsidiary
preparing for Australia's first offshore
drilling exercise at a site in Bass Strait
with a 5800 ton rig floated from the
Gulf of Mexico. This is a new type of
venture for BHP, which as well as
achieving record steel production and
fostering minerals usage and export:
(iron and steel exports increased from
£25.9 to £33.5 million in 1963-64) by
putting another £43 million into new
plant and equipment, has, inter alia,
given notice of its intention to develop
manganese deposits at Groote Island in
the Gulf of Carpentaria and of its desire
to export iron ore to Japan from Yampi.
The latter was seen as a red herring
across the trail of the' newcomers to the
exploitation of iron ore deposits in West-
ern Australia.
Justice can hardly be done here to
the glowing picture of iron ore develop-
ments emerging in Western Australia.
This year has not been particularly noted
for new discoveries of iron ore deposits
in the State, which in the previous four
years, following the lifting of the ban on
exports in 1960, increased Australia’s
known iron ore reserves about 40 times,
to something like 160 billion tons. It has
been rather a year of tying up agree-
ments to exploit deposits and market the


INVEST IN
UNSECURED NOTES
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
Registered 19th December, 1929
1
o
2
o
10 YEARS
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
71/4% - - - 7-9 YEARS
7% -- - 6 YEARS
6% --- 3 YEARS
51/2% - - - 2 YEARS
5 1/4 % - - 12 MONTHS
TO APPLY ASK AT ANY BRANCH
A NZ or I.A.C
Other short term rates available
FOR PROSPECTUS & APPLICATION FORM
Applications will be accepted only on the printed forms attached to the
Prospectus. Your copy available from all Members of Stock Exchanges,
over 750 Branches of the A.N.Z. Bank and I.A.C. Branches.
Branches at
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
HOBART CANBERRA DARWIN
Underwriters: Inn Potter A Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and Brisbane.
ore, planning and developing transport
facilities. The main feature has been
the attraction of massive Australian and
overseas capital to the task.
All this is a necessary prelude to the
actual process of moving and exporting
the ore and the more distant one of
establishing new steel works. It is as
well to bear in mind what Mr John
Marks said last week at the DFC meet-
ing. He warned that no nation can afford
to sleep on its resources; to receive the
benefits we must hurry up production. A
pitiful commentary on this is that, as the
year ends, Mt Isa, one of the world's best
copper mines, was virtually completely
inactive, and this at a time when copper
was selling at around its highest ever on
world markets (in the course of the year
the London Metal Exchange price rose
from £stg23s to £stg49s a ton).
At any rate, in tin we have seen an-
other mine, Ardlethan, in NSW, come
into production during the year as well
as the necessary steps taken by the same
100 Collins Street stable to get a second
new field, Greenbushes in WA, nearer
the operating stage scheduled for the
third quarter of 1965. Under the spur of
booming tin prices (below the best now,
tin is about 30 p.c. up on a year ago)
this industry has been expanding rapidly
towards the goal of making Australia
self-sufficient in the metal. Consum-
mating a long campaign to expand in the
industry, Consolidated Gold Fields
acquired a majority interest in Tas-
manian producer, Renison, in mid-
December. It could well prove to be as
active in developing this field as it has
been in mineral sands, following its sev-
eral acquisitions in the last few years.
With gold, coal, mineral sands, iron ore,
tin and big mining investment interests,
this group is emerging as a considerable
force in Australian minerals.
The high level of lead and zinc pro-
duction achieved by the Barrier com-
panies during the year cannot be left out.
It has enabled them to show bumper pro-
fits and the country to take full advan-
tage of immensely favorable export mar-
kets. Lead returned us £33.2 million in
export income in 1963-64 (£24.6 million
the -previous year) and was our best
metals’ income earner. At the four
months stage this year, lead exports had
earned £4.2 million more than in the
corresponding period of 1963-64. Zinc
exports have been buoyant too, £14.9
million last year, followed by a substan-
tial increase to an annual rate of £23.4
million in the first four months this year.
Again high London prices have been a
big spur. At the end of the year lead is
£stgl46 compared with £stg74 a ton
a year earlier, while zinc is £stg 131 as
a gainst £stg96.
In the interim, Broken Hill South and
CRA’s joint company, Cobar Mines, has
been making good progress in develop-
ment work at its copper mine at Cobar
in NSW, though the production stage is
still some way off. With the cessation of
copper exports, a valuable export earner,
which brought in £l7 million last year
and £13.6 million in 1962-63, has tem-
porarily (one hopes) been lost. Exports
of copper contracted to £4 million in
the first four months of the current year,
compared with £5.4 million over the
same period last year. They are now
banned.
Against this, coal has been helping
nobly to fill the gap by stepping up ex-
ports to an annual rate of £20.7 million
in the first four months of the year as
against actual exports of £16.3 million in
1963-64 and £11.2 million the year be-
fore. Some other metals have also been
making a solid contribution. For instance
minerals sands exports, which rose from
£6.1 million to £B.B million in 1963-64,
were at the annual rate of £14.4 million
in the first four months this year. In
addition alumina is being exported to
Japan from Kwinana by Alcoa, and
Comalco is shipping bauxite to Japan
and aluminium metal to Britain all
new developments in 1964.
Not perhaps with the same inspiration
as others on the Australian minerals
scene but more as an act of faith and a
means for its survival, the Golden Mile
was also making its own contribution to
the new era. True, the erosion in gold
looked endemic. For eight months this
year production was down by 10 p.c.
and looked like being less than one
million ozs for the year, the first time
this will have happened since 1952. The
onus of pushing the figures higher rested
largely with WA mines, currently pro-
ducing about three-quarters of the
national total.
It is early yet to say, but underground
extraction methods could well be revolu-
tionised by the new techniques being used
by Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie in tackling
the low grade (3 dwt a ton) Mount
Charlotte ore-body. Some of these, for
instance a continuous programme of
rock mechanics, an aid to stope design,
owes much to methods used on the
Snowy Mountains project and large
diesel - powered mechanical transport
equipment is being used underground for
the first time along the Mile.
As a result GMK expects that 20
miners will be able to extract 50 tons of
ore per machine shift compared with 5.2
tons per machine shift with the tradi-
tional methods used elsewhere in the
company's WA operations. In terms of
gold output the new techniques would
give 1380 fine ozs per miner, as against
364 ozs the old way. We may yet see
a bit more paint along Kalgoorlie streets
as a result of the face-lift in mining
methods under way.


C.S.R. Co’s HALF-YEARLY REPORT
POINTS FROM GENERAL MANAGERS REPORT TO
SHAREHOLDERS
In his recently released report to shareholders, Dr. J. Vernon, General
Manager of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited, mentioned:
• expected profit lower than the record figure for the year ended 31st March, 1964
• record production by the company’s raw sugar mills, but less than previously
expected
• improvement in sales of the company’s building materials
• expansion into ready mixed concrete.
Because last year's profit was
much greater than the previous
year’s, the directors’ report in June
made reference to the expected pro-
fit for the current year. It was re-
marked that: "Although prediction
is always difficult, it can at least be
said that on present indications the
profit for the current financial year
is likely to approximate that for the
financial year just ended.”
There have been a number of
developments since then, and since
the annual meeting in July. On
balance, their effect on profit has
been adverse. It is now apparent
that the profit for the year ending
31st March 1965 will be less than
last year’s record figure.
I RAW SUGAR MILLING
C.S.R.’s Australian Mills: The
current 1964 season should see the
establishment of new records for a
season's production by the com-
pany’s Australian mills, eclipsing
those of 1963 season. Present esti-
mates are that C.S.R.’s Australian
mills will produce 388,000 tons of
raw sugar, which will be 35,000 tons
more than in 1963.
Wind and rain in North Queens-
land have created serious harvesting
difficulties and have led to the de-
terioration of the cane and low
sugar content. Costs are higher and
production less than expected. All
the crop may not be harvested.
Fiji—South Pacific Sugar Mills
Ltd.: Our subsidiary, South Pacific
Sugar Mills Ltd., is now expected
to produce 305,000 tons of raw
sugar in the current season—15,000
tons less than estimated in July last,
but still slightly more than last
year’s 299,000 tons.
The reduction in output has been
due to prolonged dry weather.
Other Fiji matters: The company
announced in September that the
Fiji public would be invited to
share in the ownership of our
subsidiary S.P.S.M. The C.S.R. Co.
has had a very long association
with the Fiji community in the
course of its business. The parti-
cipation of residents of Fiji in the
ownership of S.P.S.M. will strength-
en this association and extend the
bond of common interest.
REFINED SUGAR
Australia: During the half-year
ended 30th September C.S.R. re-
fineries sold 260,000 tons of sugar
products, about A\% more than
for the same period of 1963.
New Zealand: Sales by our sub-
sidiary, New Zealand Sugar Co.
Ltd., during the half-year were
48,500 tons, 8% less than for the
same period for 1963.
AUSTRALIAN
SUGAR INDUSTRY
MATTERS
Australian raw sugar produc-
tion: It is expected that Queensland
and New South Wales will produce
just under 2,000,000 tons of raw
sugar in the 1964 season.
Expansion of the Australian
raw sugar industry: Expansion of
the industry continues in accordance
with the recommendations of the
1963 Committee of Inquiry. There
is a good prospect of reaching the
1965 objective of 2,200,000 tons of
raw sugar recommended by the
Committee.
In October the new bulk raw
sugar terminal at Cairns loaded
its first vessel. This marked the
completion of the original plans
to fully convert the raw sugar
industry to bulk handling.
THE INTERNATIONAL
SUGAR SITUATION
AND THE WORLD PRICE
After July the world free market
price of sugar for prompt delivery
fell steadily to £32/10/- sterling a
ton in mid-September. The fall
then halted and the price remained
unchanged until 11th November.
At the time this report goes to
print it is £28/10/- sterling.
World stocks of sugar continue
to be low and the main reason
for the fall in price seems to have
been the expectation of an un-
usually large beet crop in Europe.
The world price has fallen sooner
and more severely than we thought
likely in July.
BRITISH
COMMONWEALTH
SUGAR AGREEMENT
Representatives of Commonwealth
sugar exporting territories are now
meeting with the Ministry of Agri-
culture, Fisheries and Food in
London to review the working of
the price formula and other mat-
ters arising under this agreement.
The agreement is of great impor-
tance to the raw sugar industries
of Australia and Fiji.
THE UNITED STATES !
MARKET
To date, tentative quotas have
been announced for 1965 corres-
ponding to about 147,000 long tons
of sugar for Australia and 36,000
long tons for Fiji.
BUILDING MATERIALS
Our Building Materials Division
has shared in the increased demand
for materials arising from the great-
er activity in the building trade in
Australia this year. Sales and profits
of the division for the six months
ended September 1964 were better
than for the corresponding period
of 1963.
Fibreboard Group: Sales of hard-
board both in Australia and over-
seas have shown pleasing increases.
Vinyl Floor Tiles: The market for
vinyl floorcovering is growing but is
still small in relation to the number
of manufacturers and importers
competing in it.
Pyneboard Pty. Ltd. and Pyne-
board (Gippsland) Pty. Ltd: These
companies are now both owned
equally by C.S.R. and Australian
Paper Manufacturers Ltd. Pyne-
board continues to be marketed by
the Building Materials Division of
C.S.R.
Gypsum Products Group: The
rise in home building has resulted
in a strong demand for Gyprock.
Mineral Fibres Group: The
Bradford insulation companies in
N.S.W., Victoria and Queensland
(85% C.S.R.) continue to progress
well.
The world asbestos market, after
several years of over-supply, has
begun to strengthen and the demand
for asbestos from Australian Blue
Asbestos Pty. Ltd. (wholly owned
by C.S.R.) is a little better although
prices have not improved.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS |
C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
(60% C.S.R.): Production and sales
continue to be high and the addi-
tional capacity recently provided in
several plants is fully occupied.
Profit margins generally remain
very low.
C.S.R. Chemicals has announced
the forthcoming construction of a
plant to make higher alcohols by
Dr. J. Vernon
a synthetic process from petro-
chemical raw materials.
C.S.R.C.-Dow Pty. Ltd. (50%
C.S.R. Chemicals): Production in
all sections of this company’s opera-
tions is at high rates. A new plant
at Altona, Victoria, for the manu-
facture of polystyrene has been
successfully commissioned.
B. F. Goodrich-C.S.R. Chemi-
cals Pty. Ltd. (40% C.S.R. Chemi-
cals) : Production and sales of poly-
vinyl chloride continue to increase.
OTHER MATTERS
Ready Mixed Concrete Ltd.:
Our offer jointly with Blue Metal
Industries Ltd. to acquire the issued
capital of Ready Mixed Concrete
Ltd. has been successful.
Mount Newman Iron Ore Co.
Ltd.: The company has taken a
45% share interest in Mount New-
man Iron Ore Co. Ltd., the other
55% being owned by American
Metal Climax Inc. Mount Newman
Iron Ore Co. holds rights over
mining areas in the Pilbara region of
Western Australia, and under an
agreement with the Government
of Western Australia the Mount
Newman company has the right to
be granted a mineral lease in res-
pect of its mining areas. In com-
petition with other iron ore in-
terests, the Mount Newman com-
pany has made proposals to the
Japanese Steel Mills Committee for
the export of iron ore to Japan
under a long term contract.
Debenture Issue: The Board d**
cided to raise funds by making
issue of debentures. The requi
ments of the company to finance
the expansion of its activities are
heavy, sugar milling making by far
the largest call. The debentures
were offered, not to the public, but
to the shareholders and debenture
holders of the company. The issue
opened and closed on 25th Novem-
ber heavily over-subscribed.
CSR39B


JENNINGS ESTATES AND FINANCE
LIMITED
ISSUE AT PAR OF
£977,000
DEBENTURE STOCK
7
/o
2
P.A. FOR 6 YEARS
o
o
P.A
FOR
10 YEARS
Jennings Estates and Finance Limited, develops real
estate and provides finance for the Australia-wide A. V.
Jennings’ organisation.
Underwriters
lAN POTTER & CO.
(Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
AUSTRALIAN UNITED CORPORATION LTD.
Applications for Debenture Stock must proceed only on the form referred to in and
attached to a printed copy of the prospectus, obtainable from:
• Any Member of a Recognised Stock Exchange
• The Joint Underwriters
lAN POTTER & CO.
Alinga Street,
Canberra City
44 Hunter St.
Sydney
360 Collins St.
Melbourne
250 Edward St.
Brisbane
41 Currie St.
Adelaide
56 William St.
Perth
or direct from
JENNINGS ESTATES AND FINANCE LIMITED
Trent Street, Burwood, Victoria
INVESTMENT
An Unusual Decision
Moulded Products ' advance payments
Tt is somewhat difficult to see any
A rhyme or reason behind Moulded
Products’ extremely unusual decision to
take advance payments on a new issue
to be made in the middle of next year
and treat them as 5 p.c. deposits until
the day application moneys fall due. It
is made even more unusual by the fact
that shareholders are still in the dark as
regards the terms of the issue and
whether or not it will bring about any
reduction in the 14-year-old 14 p.c.
dividend.
As pointed out in the issue of Decem-
ber 12 (p. 72), the chances of the latter
are by no means remote. Is this scheme
to get hold of what is virtually loan
money for a mere 5 p.c. designed to
expand and boost profits to the extent
where, once the new shares rank, earn-
ings will be sufficient to maintain divi-
dends? There is merit in this idea, though,
if such is the case, directors should have
levelled with shareholders when the
announcement was made last week.
If, as they claim, the issue will be
made to finance expansion, why can’t it
be made now instead of bridging the
time gap with loan capital. Is this to
make sure that the new shares do not
rank for dividends in the 1965 year to
December 31? Are directors borrowing
money at 5 p.c. instead of 14 p.c., at the
expense to shareholders of one year’s
dividends?
Even if such is the case, it is not
necessarily a move to be frowned upon.
There is more than one way to look at
the situation. For instance, the move is
obviously in the interests of earning
capacity and any improvement in this
direction is, in the long run, in the
interests of shareholders, too. It is also
a means of getting expansionary money
over a period of time instead of sud-
denly having thousands of pounds
dumped in one’s lap, a lot of which may
not be needed at that time.
Growing Success
\I/'hile a majority of financiers do not
: ’ seem to be doing as well, General
Credits’ policy of diversifying its lending
channels appears to have met marked
success. Last week the company an-
nounced a profit of £lBO,OOO for the
half-year to October 31. This compares
with £258,000 for the full 1963-64 year
and is equal to an annual earning rate of
10.5 p.c. as against 7.5 p.c. previously.
The result is largely due to the success-
ful expansion of lending in country dis-
tricts, where agricultural finance has been
actively pursued. Infiltration was costly
in the early stages; its benefits are at
last showing through. Expansion into
leasing and secured property lending
was another diversification which con-
tributed to the buoyant six months.
It looks as though further expansion
is on the way. Directors have announced
plans to raise £500,000 through the
institutional placement of preference
shares. The dividend on these (6£ p.c.)
may take the cream off the benefits to
ordinary shareholders from the ex-
pansion. However, they have little to
complain about as the interim dividend
indicates a full year’s distribution of 8
p.c.


ENGINES
OVERHAULED
WHILE-U-DRIVE
• NO TIE-UPS DISMANTLING
• SAVES REBORE
• STOPS PISTON SLAP,
RATTLES
• STOPS OIL, PETROL WASTE
Add expanding liquid Nu-Metal (Pat.) through
plug holes for WORN upper cyls, or oil or
petrol for WORN main bearings, gears, diffs,
GUAR, harmless. Good up to 25.000 mis. In-
creases compression 151 b. per cyl. Increases
car value, No charge, 1. 2,4, 6, 8 cyls, 15/6,
30/-. 60/-, 70/- 80/-.
FULLY GUAR. AND MONEY SAVERS. DO-
IT-AT-HOME.
1. WELDER OR ELECTRO PLATER. Works
off car battery. £B/8/-. ALSO MANY OTHER
SCIENTIFIC KITS FROM £lO/10/- EACH.
2. STOPS loose fitting dentures and daily
powders, bulky substances. Apply one applica-
tion only of “FITRITE” miracle jelly plastic.
Sets moulds while-u-wear. Lasts up to years.
42/- outfit.
Sold only by
RE-NU CO. (Estab. 1932)
Div. of Scientific Colleges and Plastic Ind.
Co. Pty. Ltd. (Estab. 1946)
58 SWAN ST., onp. Richmond Stn., VIC.
42 1755. Open Sat.
I enclose £ for indicate
choice or send free particulars on
NAME
ADDRESS....,
BUL.
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761
(4 lines)
P.O. BOX
NO. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH:
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Background of ACEs Eminence
Adjustment due in respect of BHP price
At the time of writing, the shares of
** “the glass company”, Australian
Consolidated Industries Ltd, are quoted
635. buyer, 635. 6d. seller, and the last
sale took place at 635. 3d. Looking
at the high and low prices for the last
three years, it could be concluded that
the price will not fall below 595. At this
price, the dividend yield from the divi-
dend of Is. Bd. per share was 2.825 p.c.
If the dividend yield was the critical
factor in the valuation of ACl’s shares,
then the price should now be about
635. 9d.
Regrettably, there is no factor that
alone determines a share’s price. The
earnings yield might be important for
ACI since the shares have never sold at
a yield of more than 5.8 p.c. over the
last three years. Based on last year’s
earnings, the price to give this yield
would be 61s. This may well be the new
“floor” price until the 1964-65 profits
are announced.
It has long been recognised that ACI
is one of our leading stocks and it is
fairly clear that, when an investor pays
such a high price relative to earnings and
dividends, he is expecting a high rate of
growth. It will be interesting to examine
the background to these expectations.
Perhaps the most important factor is
still the apparently unassailable monopoly
which ACI holds in glass-making. So
far as it is possible to make out, this
position has never been challenged.
Although ACI has joint operations run-
ning’with some of the better-known over-
seas companies, such as Owens-Corning
and Pilkington Bros, there is never a
suggestion that another glass manu-
facturer may set up in competition. This
is quite contrary to the situation with
Australia’s other major monopolist as,
at the moment, it is being alleged that
at least one other steelmaker will start
up in Australia and similar rumors have
occurred at intervals over the last five
years.
ACl’s other activities seem to have
grown out of glass-making. The entry
into the field of plastics appears to have
been quite natural, because plastic
materials are often a substitute for glass.
HThe annual report lists seventy-five sub-
A sidiary companies and firms opera-
ted by the group. In addition to this, the
group held shares in non-listed com-
panies and other investments which had
cost £3,321,426 up to 1964 and which
yielded an income for that year of
£350,065. This suggests a return on cost
of 111 p.c. tax-free, which is very attrac-
tive. The return on listed shares is not
so good at 8.6 p.c. on cost and only
3.3 p.c. on market value at June 30,
1964.
While there are no doubt very good
reasons for continuing to hold a share
portfolio which would involve giving up
a return of, perhaps, only 3 p.c. if
it was sold, it seems strange that, in late
1961, the company raised £5.7 million
which cost in terms of dividends nearly
5.6 p.c. on the amount raised. If the
listed securities had been sold, the divi-
dend commitment could have been
reduced by £234,000, while the net
income given up would not have ex-
ceeded £152,000. It could be argued
that, as a result of not selling, the com-
pany has made a book profit of over
£600,000 and this is rather convincing.
Basically, the company’s capital struc-
ture is very strong. There is practically
no dependence on “outside” finance. This
usually makes for stability and safety
rather than rapid growth in earnings. In
fact, per share earnings do not appear to
have shown any growth over the last five
years. The following table shows the
earnings of both BHP and ACI ex-
pressed as a percentage of ordinary
capital and after making adjustments for
bonus issues and the bonus content of
rights issues:
Year ended in 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
BHP 10.2 12.9 13.6 14.0 14.5 15,4
ACI 17.1 15.8 17.5 16.9 16.7 L. 9
Index 1959 = 100
BHP 100 126 133 137 142 151
ACI 100 92 102 99 98 105
The dividend rates of the two com-
panies adjusted on the same basis as the*
earnings have been as follows:
Year ended in 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
BHP 4.5 5.3 5.6 6.3 7.1 7.7
ACI 6.5 7.1 7.6 8.3 8.3 9.0
Index 1959 = 100
BHP 100 118 125 140 158 171
ACI 100 109 117 128 128 139
From these figures it is tempting to
suggest that BHP has been a rather better
investment than ACI over the last five
years. Yet, today, BHP’s shares are sell-
ing at about 51s. At this price, the
immediate dividend yield is 3.0 p.c. and
the earnings yield is 6.0 p.c. These
figures compare with the last sale figure
of ACI of 635. 3d., giving a dividend
yield of 2.8 p.c. and an earnings yield
of 4.9 p.c. Despite the rumors of other
steel producers, I consider that there is
little reason to believe that ACl’s future
Qf(
prospects are any different from BITP s.
I also feel that it is reasonable to 'weight
the price in favor of BHP in view of fs
significantly better past performance^)
A point which is worth
far as earnings are concerned is that tpe
earning rate for ACI is after adding back
to earnings the provision for plant re-
placement. But, in the case of this
provision was merged (by the company)
with the depreciation provision from
1960-61 onwards. To make the earning
rates comparable, we should exclude the
provision for plant replacement from
ACl’s earnings. If this is done, the trend
over the last five years is not affected
and the present earning rate becomes 15.0
p.c. instead of 17.9 p.c. This means that,
on a comparable basis, ACl’s shares are
selling at 20.5 times earnings, while
BHP’s are selling at 16.5 times earnings.
There must be some adjustment due
here.


m
Mi ma si i
WmW OR
Q3XIJ ON
31CJ ;U3J4RO
o
o
Write for brochure without obligation.
ST. GEORGE & CRONULLA
PERMANENT CO-OPERATIVE
BUILDING SOCIETY LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE: Co-operation House, 36
Ormonde Parade, Hurstville. Phone 57 0201
CITY: Berger House, 82 Elizabeth Street.
Phone 28 2801,
MIRANDA: 551 The Kingsway. Ph. 52 6466
AGENCIES:
Chatswood: Ist Floor, 389 Victoria Ave
Phone 41 4295.
Parramatta: 21a Smith St. Phone 635 7401
SECURITY: Strong liquidity
reserves. The Society's total
assets exceed £5. million.
WITHDRAWALS: Your money
is available ANY TIME, if
required. No brokerage or
other deductions.
DIVIDENDS: Paid twice yearly
Mac
FOR ALL FINANCE
FACTORING AND LEASING
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE CORPORATION LIMITED
IN WHICH THE BANK OF N S W. MAS A 40 % SHAREHOLDING
F5
PECULATOR’S DIARY
Festive Season
Inaction
TFhe festive season is upon us and this
must serve as an excuse for my
irelative inactivity.
Early in the week I had thought of
shorting Mt Isa. The labor dispute has
dragged on for almost four months.
This must have played havoc with the
profits. The remarkable part about the
shares is how they held up at about 40s.
ifor so long. It’s this solid resistance to
heavy downward pressures that turned
me against the idea of shorting.
At least shorting Mt Isa would have
i given me a precious credit in the account!
1 instead, the first thing I did this week
was to add 25 shares to the New Broken
Hill holding. After my frenzied en-
thusiasm for this company last week, all
the shares did was to sink back to 118 s.
Paradoxically, the combined lead-zinc
price had put on £1 a day since last
week and was now up to £283 per ton.
By now the financial position was
getting desperate. So much so that I was
forced to sell my largest holding
Treloar Enterprises, at 19s.
Also, alas, the Anderson Meat rights
issue had moved to a close. It was dis-
appointing that the market had not gone
up during the issue. One consolation,
though, was the very few rights on sale
during the issue. So it was that I deter-
mined to retain an interest in the com-
pany. Selling 300 rights at 7s. Bd. gave
roe yt least part of the sum to take up
the balance of the rights.
r hese earlier transactions could really
be described as adjustments to the pOrt-
fO/i O.
I "Hie only new entry to the portfolio
was New Guinea Goldfields. This little-
: known company is listed in the mining
section, but actually earns more profit
from its trading operations. For several
years it paid a 3d. dividend on the 3s. 6d.
par value shares, but last year was able
io comfortably increase the dividend
amount to 4d. On this past record alone
the shares are worth par at least. How-
ever, what particularly drew my attention
to the company was the sudden 80 p.c.
increase in gold production last month.
The 500 shares were purchased at 3s. 9d.
The New Year starts off with a debit
of £67.


You may close your factory,
but can you afford to close your mind
to Advertising on
9
in January?
If your point of view about advertising over
the holiday period is . . . “Don’t advertise
in January . . . nobody is home . . . every-
body is on holidays”, you could be missing
out on the best-selling months of the year.
HERE ARE THE FACTS ON JANUARY
Every year many commercial and industrial
organisations close down for three weeks.
At this time of the year the whole family is
free to go out buying. Their pockets are
loaded with holiday pay. They have nothing
but time on their hands to shop.
Retailers have realised this fact. January
is the month of big Summer Sales, Below
Cost Bargains, Specials, Save, Save, Save.
Retailers spend up big in January to grab
a share of this holiday money spending
market.
WHERE DO NATIONAL ADVERTISERS
FIT IN THE JANUARY SPEND UP?
Many advertisers and their agents be-
lieve people stop drinking coffee, buying
cigarettes, using soap, washing clothes, buy-
ing petrol. It certainly seems this way
because they don’t bother to advertise during
this holiday season. The actual fact is more
coffee is consumed, more cigarettes smoked,
more washing powder used- because more
clothes get dirty, and more petrol used be-
cause people on holidays have more time to
go places. But are they using your products?
What would happen if you stopped adver-
tising and your competitors did not for a
month or more in the middle of the year?
The answer undoubtedly is that your share
of market would decrease. The same over
the Christmas and New Year holiday period.
Not all advertisers stop advertising only
the ones that think they can afford to lose
a share of their market. These progressive
advertisers kept on advertising right through
the holiday period last year. They are big
advertisers who know the worth of January
selling.
Amoco
Ansett
William Arnott
Austral Bakeries
Australian Bankers Association
Australian Consolidated Industries
Australian Consolidated Press
Australian Consolidated Press Bulletin
Australian Dairy Produce Board
Australian National Lines
Beckers Bex
Beechams
Best and Gee
Birko
BP Australia
Bonds Industries
B.M.L.
Brockhoffs
Bushells
Campbell Soups
Cedel
Chesebrough-Ponds
Coca Cola
Colgate
Commercial Bank
Commonwealth Government
Cottee’s
Decore Sales
Kevin Dennis
Drug Houses of Australia
Gordon Edgell
Electrix
E. S. & A. Bank
Esso Australia
General Motors-Holden’s
Gillette
Glo-Weave
Goldberg International
Golden Poultry
Greythorn Electrics
T. B. Guest
Robert Harper
Heidelberg Bakeries
H. J. Heinz
Hoover
IGY Veterinary
Ilford Australia
King Gee
R. Kirby
Kodak
Lifesavers
Bob Martin
C. E. Miller
Monier Besser
Moores of Prahran
Philip Morris
Myer Emporium
James McEwan
Nabisco
Nestles Ice Cream
Neta Industries
Newman’s Chocolates
Nicholas
Norway Sardines
Ogden Industries
O. & G. Insurance
Maxwell House
Peters Ice Cream
Tom Piper
Proctor & Gamble
Red Robin
Lyall Roberts
Schweppes
Frank Sedgman
B. Seppelt
Shell Company
Simalex
Sitmar
Stamina Clothing
Sterling Drug
Stewart Alexander
Sunbeam
John Sutherland
David Syme
Tarax Holdings
Tuckfields
Vicks
Vincent Chemical
Walpamur
Webbs Radio
Woolworths
Alberto Culver
Brandella Sox
British Paints
Carnation Milk
Clarks Australia
Columbia Pictures
Darrods
Dural Leeds
Ford Motor Company
Halls Book Store
Houghton & Byrne
Inter. Home Pr.
Johnson & Johnson
S. C. Johnson
Kelloggs
Kiwi Polish
Kraft Foods
Kraft Peanut Butter
Mobil
Montines Longines
Macßobertsons
National Civic Council
Neals Motors
Palace Hotel (Perth)
Pennell
Godfrey Phillips
Phoenix Biscuits
Prahran City Council
Purnell Shoes
Reckitt & Colman
R. J. Reynolds
Rothmans
Scripto Pens
Star Theatrette
State Electricity Commission
Toppa Ice Cream
T.
Tri-Safe Brakes
Unilever
Victorian Milk Board
Warner Lambert
Western District Co-operative
W. D. & H. O. Wills
Wrigleys
B
tc
a;
r
fc
a
1
1
3
B
i;
ir
T
i
)
n
x
??
>n
WHAT IS GTV9 DOING FOR THE
ADVERTISER IN JANUARY?
During January, GTV9 is offering spec
low-price packages to help you sustain yot
advertising right through the holiday sea
without a large advertising expenditur
Special package rates apply from open to
p.m., 6 p.m. to close and Channel 9 Sumr
Theatre (In Melbourne Tonight replac
ment), with, of course, full-rate, all-yea
round Advertisers enjoying priority of pla
ment.
Don’t let the holiday market slip throug
your fingers. Contact your GTV9 Accoui
Executive for full details on how G 1 .
can help you plan your advertising cQ :
January. Phone in Melbourne 42 0201, ;
Sydney 27 2881, right now.
CHANNEL
•TV9.


THE MAN ON THE LAND
endigo versus Land Settlement
The case of Lake Eppalock and Rochester
battle royal, now developing in the
old goldmining town of Bendigo in
toria, has an application in many,
ny parts of Australia. The battle is
r water.
To be exact it is over water from
ce Eppalock, which is close to Bendigo
1 which, through a series of earthworks
1 other constructions, has been turned
3 a beautiful stretch of water.
Bendigoans are proud of Eppalock.
is of little concern to them that the
iney which revitalised the lake came
•m the entire State. It is their lake,
is where they can take their children
weekends. It is something they can
)w to tourists.
Now the Victorian State Government
< poses to use water from Lake Eppa-
iK to irrigate some 70 new irrigation
:ms to be established at Rochester,
me 50 miles away. Hell hath no fury
je a country town spurned. The pro-
-32 il has been denounced in Bendigo
“smacking of deceit and chicanery”.
I "he mayor, one Councillor N. J. Oli-
has put Bendigo’s case clearly and
r cisely. The water from Eppalock, he
ys, should be used first for the Bendigo
ea. Bendigo, he says, is starved for
ater. Bendigo people will not stand for
ie proposal and will fight it tooth and
Cl ail.
01 Cr Oliver’s feelings, and those of other
ir endigo people, can be understood. But
3 ie wider implications of water usage
nuggest that the State Government is, in
cois case, quite logical.
31 The Rochester area is ideal for irri-
gation. It is flat, has good soil, and from
lochester to the Murray there is a gentle
filing away of the land which will make
yie problem of surplus water from the
: posed irrigation scheme a simple one
i solve.
Bendigo, on the other hand, is set
n fidst a series of humps and hillocks
hnich would make any irrigation project
xtremely expensive.
Since the gold petered out, Bendigo
,ia existed mainly as the railway hub
'rx the Mallee and Wimmera. (It is,
u '.ed, likely that, had the railway not
< e l built at the end of the gold era, it
ght well have bypassed Bendigo
together.) What farming there is, in
lie immediate locality of Bendigo, is
given over to poultry raising, pig raising
and some fruit growing. The soil is,
generally speaking, poor. Wheat, for
poultry rations, is plentiful and cheap in
Bendigo because of the railway tracks
coming down from the Wimmera and
Mallee.
Eppalock water for Bendigo industry,
however, is another matter. It is highly
likely that with more water a number of
new industries, plastics particularly,
could be enticed to Bendigo.
This is a problem not only for Ben-
digo, but for Victoria and for Australia.
Should water be earmarked primarily
for agriculture or for industry? In fifty
years’ time there will not be enough to
satisfy both industry and agriculture.
Nearly all the hydrological experts agree
on that.
Overall planning is needed urgently
so that this nation can make the best
use of what water it does possess. In
the world-sense Australia is a dry con-
tinent.
In the meantime, though, the Eppalock
water seems destined to flow to Roches-
ter.
There is a long waiting list for Govern-
ment-developed irrigation farms in Vic-
toria and the record is a very good one.
Victoria has probably set a model for
the sensible and fair acquisition of pro-
perties for closer settlement.
Following the usual practice, the
Rochester land has been proclaimed by
the Victorian Minister for Lands, Mr
Balfour, as “suitable for land settle-
ment”. This proclamation appears in the
Government Gazette, which makes it
official, and means that the present land-
owners in the area cannot sell their pro-
perties without the Minister’s consent.
Yet they are not to be resumed willy
nilly, as has happened in some other
States. The Rural Finance and Settlement
Commission will now contact the owners
to begin negotiations for purchase. Every
effort will be made to arrange the pur-
chase by “mutual consent”. This means
the principle of a fair and reasonable
price as the basis for negotiations.
Victoria has had more closer settle-
ment than any other State since the war
and has, except in one or two isolated
cases, avoided the unpleasantness that so
often accompanies closer settlement else-
where.
The Western District, before the war
the epitome of squattocracy, has been
transformed into a mixed-farming area
through Government purchase of lands
from the big estates. It has not always
been a perfectly smooth transition.
Nevertheless, much has been accom-
plished.
This Bendigo city attack on a land
settlement scheme is something new,
however, and may be the portent of
things to come. Industrial aspirations
are the reason.
Towns, in the past, have not entered
into land settlement forays. To use
water for farms, or to use it for industry,
is going to become an increasingly vital
question all over Australia. The Bendigo
versus Rochester-farms case may be only
the first of many.
Unfortunately, from the national point
of view, this particular issue will be in-
evitably clouded by the fact that Bendigo
is a swinging seat for Henry Bolte's
Liberal Country Party Government. Both
Labor and the “genuine” Country Party
will make as much of the situation as
they can.
Pesticides and Human Health
Is biological control the answer?
T>esticides in relation to human health
A appears to be a subject similar in
one respect to smoking and lung cancer.
We read about it, some people talk about
it, but in general we just tend to shrug
it off as one of those things we have no
control over, and, anyway, we haven't
died yet.
Most people who delve deeply into
the subject come away with the thought
that the only real answer is biological
control of insect pests rather than
chemical control.
Recently the CSIRO stated its attitude
to biological control and in so doing
gave some real hope that new methods
might well eliminate, or at least reduce,
possible contamination of the human
environment by chemical pesticides. At
the same time it appears that we will
have to rely on chemical controls for
many pests as far ahead as anyone can
see.
The introduction of the chemical
pesticides in large quantities soon after
the war has, without doubt, resulted in
a tremendous increase in food produc-
tion. Without these chemical pesticides


CANBERRA GRAMMAR SCHOOL
ASSISTANT MASTER wanted in Senior
School to teach Mathematics up to Matricu-
lation level. Accommodation for a single
man available in school and a house pro-
vided for a married man. Details of train-
ing and experience should be sent, with
the names and addresses of two referees,
to the HEADMASTER.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: PATRICIA MAY NEWBY, late of Newton.
TAKE NOTICE that KEVIN HERBERT
NEWBY has filed Petition No. 3636 of 1964
for Divorce on the grounds of desertion and
separation. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
or before the 2nd February, 1965, and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
J. C. PAYNTER, Solicitor, 107 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Legal Notices
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANI,
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. M.C. 36 Of 1964.
TO: VICTOR LAURENCE RAY formerly
Pt Sorell in Tasmania but whose prest
address is unknown. TAKE NOTICE t!
Ailsa Ray has filed a Divorce Petition agaii
you on the ground of desertion. Included
the Petition are claims for the custody of ■
children of the marriage, maintenance for i
petition and the said children, costs and
property settlement in favor of the Petitioi
AND TAKE NOTICE that if you intend
defend the Petition you must file an Ansv
within 28 days of the publication of t;
Notice at the Registry of the Supreme Coi
of Tasmania, Murray Street, Hobart, in Ti
mania, at which address further informati
can be obtained otherwise the Court may h<
and determine the proceedings in yo
absence. DATED this 2nd day of Septemb
1964. SIMMONS WOLFHAGEN SIMMONS
WALCH, of Day’s Building, Best Stree
Devonport, Tasmania, telephone 2158
Solicitors for the Petitioner. Sgd. C. BRE'
TINGHAM-MOORE, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: ROBERT GOURLIE, late of West Ryd
in the State of New South Wales. TAK
NOTICE that MARIE MARGARET GOURL]
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3994 <
1964 on the grounds of desertion and/c
separation. If you wish to defend you may fil
an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mir
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on (
before the Ist day of February, 1965. ar
obtain a copy of the Petition and Notice (
Petition without charge from GREG!
MILNE & CO., Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh Street
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
"IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE I
ENGLAND, a Divorce Petition has been file:
against FARRELLY, PETER, late of 19 Gr
nersbury Ave., Ealing, London, W. 5, Engla xt
who may apply to the Divorce Registry*
Somerset House, London, W.C.2, England, * u
a copy of the Petition. If within 80 days ; ri
has not communicated with the Registry, .>.l
Court may hear the case in his absence.
COMPTON MILLER, Registrar.
the world might be facing a real food
shortage right now.
There are plans going ahead for a
more integrated control of these chemi-
cal pesticides. Some noteworthy steps
have been taken to ensure that new
pesticides shall be safer. Yet fears of
build-up and problems to come in the
future are very real. For this reason
any success in the biological control of
pests is particularly welcome.
CSIRO entomologists in Canberra are
studying the trail scents of termites, the
defensive secretions of cockroaches, and
secretions in the green vegetable bug.
The idea is to identify the composition
of the secretions so they may be made
up in the laboratory in large quantities.
Using these manufactured secretions,
the insects might be lured to a selected
spot where a safe chemical could be
used to finish the job. Fruit fly, the
ordinary house fly and the codling moth
which infests orchards might be lured
to a death area by these means.
Better still is the atomic sterilisation
process. This has already worked in a
spectacular way in the United States,
where millions of sterilised male screw
worm flies were released. These mil-
lions, bred in captivity and exposed to
atomic radiation, so over-swamped the
males flying around free that the
majority of female screw worm flies
mated with the sterilised worms and
control was achieved.
In the US, chemical compounds have
been used successfully to sterilise captive
males of many insect species, including
the mosquito, house fly and tobacco
bind worm.
Sterilisation of a species seems likely,
eventually, to provide the answer to the
pesticide problem. Will it provide a
problem of its own? Who can be sure
of that? The experts seem to consider
that it is safer, on all counts, for humans
than ever - increasing chemical spray
methods.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 828
ACROSS
I—Charming policeman in a cushy job. (5, 3)
5 Life course to look after our current royalty
vehicle always. (6)
10— Course its a tax. (5)
11— Deviations from rules with a motherless sort of
dishonesty. (9)
12— Produce artwork with metal and acid. (4)
13— Pert animal changed the diet. (10)
15—Talked about an American city. (7)
17—Newspaper feature which makes it clear. (7)
18— Tom Thumb, for example,
takes the biscuit. (7)
19— Tearing into an African port.
(7)
21—Bolder gun I exploded when
being very daring at the
bridge. (10)
23—A Spanish hero is very sour.
(4)
25 Possible outcome of a job on
the boko. (9)
26 Land one on the jaw. (5)
27 They water wild horses. (6)
28— About some old josser from
whom setbacks might be ex-
pected. (8)
DOWN
1— Humanity is the business of
these waters at the mouth. (7)
2 Ned’s elastic copy affected
Diderot etc. (15)
3 Little children in glasses. (4)
4 Redskin city duck and mother
laugh. (5)
6 Prime fellow before holding
in diamond. (10)
7 The court hears (but cannot
see) this vital matter concern-
ing murder by cannibalism.
(8-2-5)
8— To steer badly into a decora-
tive device. (7)
9 Boxing with a swell tragedian
before tea. (5, 3)
14—The old issue one means of
identifying a footballer. (4, 6).
16—Signed up printer’s measure
proceeded drunkenly. (8)
18—Greek city which makes a con-
tribution to the decor in the
ballet. (7)
20—Harried enough for Ginger’s
characteristic. (3, 4)
22—Surreptitiously touch with the
elbow. (5)
24—Cure affected unbleached
linen. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 827


o
ip up . p mmm
*
Don’t miss
the special Christmas
and holiday editions of
The Australian
WOMEN’S WEEKLY
They’re packed with lift-outs on
delicious (and easy) holiday cookery
■ gifts and decorations to make
"’holiday knitting and handicrafts
"PLUS ... relaxing reading: novels,
short stories, true stories
*
•roirv
IFt/UMa*


im
1
A
m
SB :
I
m
mm
m
smugi^i
illpL’w.'
HlisifflH3BBsra%ssi3i %■■■
wK^mmSaK
n;f -
■
ip
n
■
■
*
m
u
V
OMALO
•WM
S#
PWK
pink for girls
If she says "very nice” when offered wine she may merely be
being polite. If she says "gorgeous”, "delightful”, "heavenly”
chances are it’s Romalo Pink Champagne. A gay, scintillating
wine for joyous times . . for parties, weddings and ever-so-spe'cial
dinners for two.
All over the World sophisticates celebrate with Pink Champagne
Australia’s finest is Romalo.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD. Distributors: Swift & Moore Pty. Ltd., Sydney & Brisbane
Australian Wines Ltd., Adelaide.
Ferrall, O’Byrne Pty. Ltd., Launceston.
Importers Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
E. Benson & Co., Perth.
