

The Bulletin
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
CAMBODIA’S
SIHANOUK
Australia 2/-, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


J
. .
• *
m
t %
v / \ 7:
:
’ X \*\
Sjnxi
SfSSfo
S-'Sl'-'SX--..... )s^-SS-^xx.isi
>aii
dr Ir'xx-
**- "1 s»4^“s> Ss»s»/s «• V'-te-^r^-'sXs
SSS
; i| i -. 7
....-■
if:
iilifes
r.H
5S
IS®;# 1
mmm
r*
HK
*?*
i <
s**S
to - ' # _
S lH^ olK
fci j
K
THE BULLETIN looks bock on a crowded post,
forward to an exciting future. Every week
the world is presented to Australia, Australia
to the world, in the pages of THE BULLETIN. Fill
in the coupon below and have THE BULLETIN
posted to you every week.
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (by Surface Mail):
12 months £4 . ,
6 months £2 (
Subscription Department, The Bulletin, Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
*N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press Limited
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U ' S ‘ o S -jf S S? ptio « \° „ Austraiian Consolidated Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Malaysian Subscriptions to Marican & Sons (Malaysia) Ltd.
To an Tuanku Abdul Rahman, KUALA LUMPUR and
18 Battery Road, SINGAPORE.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick V whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? Q~J or a renewal subscription? |“j
PIMS .o THE mUTin’ Cl ' e<,ue/m,,ne '’ ,or months sub^ipHon


National Notebook
International Set
A few days ago we were talking about
the International Set with visiting
Indian novelist Khushwant Singh. This
is not the old International Set which
revolved around the Windsors, Elsa
Maxwell and the Aly Khan. This is
the new International Set, admission to
which is based on your ability to move
from country to country at no expense
to yourself. The insignia of the set is
the drip-dry shirt and members are
adept at getting sponsorship from
various Governments and private associa-
tions.
Mr Singh likes to think of himself
as a veteran member of the set. He has
had two trips to the United Kingdom,
got to the* United States early in the
piece and Israel is next on his list. Mr
Singh has the strong incentive of India’s
restrictions on currency for travel to
keep him in the set. His
trip to Australia was spon-
sored by External Affairs.
He gave good value for
money in lectures to
writers’ groups and
students and he will take
back to India a highly
original view of Australia and Aus-
tralians.
Having gone to a good deal of trouble
to get to Australia, Mr Singh felt at
first that there wasn’t much for anyone
who had been in Britain to see here.
“Sydney and Melbourne are simply
British cities,” he said. “Even the names
of places, Richmond, Surrey and so on,
are the same.” However, he was greatly
impressed with Canberra which he thinks
will one day be a marvellous city.
He spent a fortnight in Adelaide where
he attended the writers’ conference. He
says he does not really “believe in
writers’ conferences” although he recalls
with proud glee his participation in the
writers’ conference at the Edinburgh
Festival. “The previous speaker had
been making a case for drugs and homo-
sexuality, so I got up and talked about
God and the angels and sc on,” he said.
“After all, that is what one expects of
an Indian, but I must say 1 caused a
sensation.”
Mr Singh said his most amusing en-
counter in Australia was on an Adelaide
beach. He was throwing a ball to a
dog when the dog’s owner came up and
introduced himself. He took Mr Singh
home and eventually showed him some
of his collection of paintings and draw-
ings by Norman Lindsay. Mr Singh
said there may have been as many as
500 in the collection. “I had heard of
Lindsay,” Mr Singh said, “but I had
never seen any of his original work. I
found it interesting, but, of course, we
have a good deal of erotica in India. In
fact, it is one of our main tourist
attractions.”
Art to Newcastle
final episode in the long-running
A controversy over Newcastle Art
Gallery featured a somersault by the
alderman who wanted to clamp down
on the spending powers of the Art
Gallery Director, Mr Gilbert Docking,
when it came to abstracts.
Aid. Selwyn Dalton did not make
another bid to obtain the City Council's
endorsement of his plan for aldermen
to “confirm” purchases of abstracts
priced at more than £lOO. Instead, he
submitted a proposal which provided,
among other things, for Mr Docking to
prepare a list of past and present artists
and the current prices of their works
“for the consideration and
approval of the City
Council” and empowered
the Art Gallery Director
to seek works by these
artists “knowing the coun-
cil will endorse payment”.
It appears that Aid.
Dalton reversed his stand as a result of
Press and public remonstrances the
most concerted for any issue raised in
Newcastle City Council for years. About
70 supporters of Mr Docking registered
their concern about aldermen becoming
judges of abstracts by turning up on
both occasions when the matter was pro-
grammed by the Council for discussion.
The Lord Mayor, Aid. Frank Purdue,
said he was not happy about Aid. Dal-
ton’s change of mind after precipitating
an issue that caused some harm to the
reputation of the Art Gallery. The Lord
Mayor pressed his original counter to
Aid. Dalton that the Council express
confidence in, and appreciation of, Mr
Docking’s administration of the Art
Gallery, and that the selection of paint-
ings to the limit of the gallery’s annual
budget of £2OOO be left to the Director’s
discretion. This was carried 11-10, re-
turning to Mr Docking the unfettered
authority he held before his appropri-
ation to abstracts (£702 out of £8350)
was questioned.
Viewpoints
A letter received recently from a
woman living in the western high-
lands of New Guinea seems to show that
although the New Guineans may have
grasped the elements of an electoral
j Page
TEWS IN THE SOVIET .... 28
The Nazi technique
AROUND MELBOURNE ... 37
BOADICEA 31
BUSINESS AND FINANCE . 46
CROSSWORD 70
EIGHTY YEARS AGO 8
FORUM 24
LETTERS . 32
MAN ON THE LAND 67
OUT AND ABOUT 20
OVERSEAS 13
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
RED PAGE 42
REVIEWS 38
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
«
Voyager: The Fateful Few Minutes 6
Sihanouk Cambodia’s Unpredict-
able Ruler 13
Jon Molvig: Enigma Without
Variations 20
Sex in Oxford It Still Goes On 22
You Can Trust the Trust 24
Motoring: Worn Tyres Can Kill .. 31
Melbourne: From an Unknown
Saint to Mother’s Milk 37
Review: The Art of Katherine
Anne Porter 42
A Bright US Election Year 46
Monetary Questions for Tokyo 49
A Silent French Revolution 51
Record Export of Fruit to Europe 67
NEW ADDRESS
Editorial Office: 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666, Ext. 380.
Vol.“ 86
No. 4390


ballot, they still don’t see everything
quite our way.
The letter reads:
“When the native woman brought me
her weekly offering of sweet potato she
looked worse than ever, thin and
wretched. Each time she came I tried
to persuade her to go to the House
Sick for treatment but native shyness
or fear of the unknown always made
her shake her head. Already she had
given birth to two stillborn babies and
was now again six months pregnant. It
did not take even my trained eye to see
there was little hope for this babe that
she so longed for.
“Once again I earnestly entreated her
to be guided by me. At last she con-
sented on the stipulation I went with
her, which I was only too glad to do.
Her haemoglobin test was dangerously
low at 48, her parasite test revealed she
was riddled with hookworm. Doctor
said he could not treat the hookworm
as the medicine would induce labor but
he could treat the blood condition by a
blood transfusion if I could find a donor.
As he said it would work wonders in
helping to build her up.
“Full of hope I approached the native
staff of the plantation. They listened
to me in mystified silence that turned
to horror as my meaning became clear
to them. Never had they heard of any-
thing so terrible and I must be out of
my mind to even suggest it.
“Nothing daunted I kept on appealing
and questioning their reluctance only to
be told—
• If any of them gave that woman
their blood and she died then they would
be had up on a murder charge for
muddling up her inside.
• If a man gave her his blood then
she would be his wife and her real
husband would come and murder him.
• That baby would be born a mixed-
up devil and would come and cast
wicked spells on them all.
• If a man gave her his blood then
she would be half-man, half-woman.
“Yet another quietly came to me to
say if the pay ran into hundreds he
would think about it.
“The elections paled into insignificance
beside this all-absorbing topic, and I
could see I was not in the race to get
a donor from them so told the woman
I would have to resort to a European!
‘Oh, no, no!’ she screamed, ‘then I’d
be a half-caste'.”
Cambodia takes up tennis
/\ne of Australia’s more unusual en-
deavors in Asia recently has been
teaching tennis to the Cambodians. Under
the inspiration of Prince Norodom Sihan-
ouk the Cambodian Government in 1960
approached the Australian Embassy in
Pnom Penh for a tennis coach. The
Australian Government gave its full sup-
port and in April, 1961, John Hopman,
elder brother of Harry and a man skilled
in teaching tennis, speaking French and
making friends, arrived in Pnom Penh
to build up Cambodian tennis.
Previously tennis had been played only
by foreigners and a few wealthy French-
educated Cambodians. For the ordinary
Cambodian there was the possibility of
being a ballboy and not much more.
However, two former Cambodian ball-
boys, Yos Samoeun and Om Sophonn,
who were coached by Hopman have
spent the past six months playing in
tennis competitions throughout New
South Wales.
• This week's cover shows Prince Sihan-
ouk waiting at Pnom Penh airport for
Filipino President Macapagal. Mr Alex
Josey writes about Sihanouk’s Cambodia
on page 1 3.
Tanner
"If all started when I was a kid of sixteen, new to the ways of Melbourne. A man enticed me to his room and
showed me a book—it contained raffle tickets."


PLAIN ENGLISH
Jews in the Soviet Union
'THE following brave, inspiring
A words; . . Soviet laws and
practice are contrary to any racial
or national dissension. The equality
of nationalities it does not matter
how big or small they are is
one of the greatest gains of the
great October Socialist Revolution
of 1917 . . . There is full freedom
for every man and every nation-
ality to exercise any religion
in the USSR”, formed part
of a letter written to THE
BULLETIN by the Press Attache
of the Soviet Embassy in Canberra,
not more than six months ago, an-
grily refuting a BULLETIN article
which sought to show, with great
detail and complete veracity, that
anti-Semitism was rife in the Soviet
Union, particularly, and tradition-
ally, in the Ukraine.
Since then there has been drama-
tic proof that, as the whole world
knew, anti-Semitism was an offi-
cially tolerated and, indeed, official-
ly approved Soviet policy. The
proof came in the form of a small
book published recently in Russia
under the august auspices of the
Soviet Academy of Sciences entitled
‘Judaism Without Embellishment”.
Purporting to be a “scientific” ex-
posure of Judaism as a religion it
comprises a series of drawings with
accompanying text which form a
frankly racist attack on Jewish re-
ligion and culture as well as on the
Jews themselves. Those who turn
to the drawings taken from the book
which appear on pages 28 and 29
will immediately and properly com-
pare them with the vicious and
degrading anti-Semitic drawings
disseminated by Hitler’s master Jew-
baiter, the notorious Streicher.
However, the most interesting
political aspect to emerge since the
book was smuggled out of the
Soviet has been the sharp evidence
°f growing USSR sensitivity to
world criticism of its treatment of
its Jewish population an issue
brought up in the United Nations
by Australia. This sensitivity has
become so acute that the Soviet
newsagency Tass sent out on its
news wires an officially-inspired
criticism of the book which appear-
ed in a small Kiev Ukrainian-lan-
guage newspaper, “Soviet Culture”.
While it is not clear which Soviet
newspapers published the Tass item
and while the criticism itself is
ambiguously mild in tone it is still
evidence that the Soviet Govern-
ment realises that it is now im-
possible to deny as it always
has done that anti - Semitism
exists in Russia. Jt is also evidence
of something else. While it may be
optimistic to assume that there will
be an early change in Soviet atti-
tudes to its Jewish minority it is
obvious that the Soviet Union is
vulnerable to continuing, detailed
criticism of its internal tyrannies.
“Shot-gun Legislation”
TAespite the number of company
” crashes and the lessons that
should have been learned from them,
there is still a tendency to try to solve
the basic company problems by what
Sir Alexander Fitzgerald has called
“shot-gun legislation”. This has been
reinforced recently by the recom-
mendation of the investigators into
Sydney Guarantee Corporation Ltd
that the Companies Act be amended
to enable trustees for debenture hold-
ers to appoint a director to the board
of a company .whenever public bor-
rowings exceed paid capital.
If adopted, this would in an
attempt to get at unsound companies
impose on soundly run companies
and their directors a number of irri-
tating, expensive and time-consuming
duties, with the result that com-
panies would probably turn their
backs on fixed interest investment
and force investors into ordinary
share-holding equities which carry no
safeguards at all.
It is of course easier to reject a
poor proposal than to find a better
one, but Sir Alexander Fitzgerald, in
his recent address to the Chartered In-
stitute of Secretaries in Melbourne,
was on the right lines when he said
the real culprits were not only un-
sound managements but (a) greedy
investors who cannot see or ignore
risks in the search for high returns;
(b) company taxation which by allow-
ing interest on debentures but not
dividends on shares as a tax deduc-
tion, encourages debenture invest-
ment; (c) the pursuit of business
vogues such as diversification; and
(d) misunderstanding the balance
sheet.
It is easy enough to see how to
remedy company taxation laws, but
cures for the others are harder to
find. Company education and infor-
mation cannot be made compulsory,
and there is no cure for greed and
stupidity. But Sir Alexander Fitz-
gerald’s address would pay more study
than would the SGC investigator’s
proposals which, to make things safer
for the investor, would probably make
them riskier still.
Gift Horse
HThough it was edged with conditions,
Mr R. J. Hawke’s acceptance of
the employers’ proposals for annual
productivity adjustments to the basic
wage opened a break in the wage-
fixing clouds when the basic wage
case resumed last week. The unions
would have been silly to have looked
this gift horse in the mouth. It is,
however, early yet to be sure that
the unions do not see the proposed
adjustments merely as a device for
achieving their dual aim of binding
wages not only with productivity and
capacity to pay but also with price
movements. This would be contrary
to the ideas of the employers, whose
case is that the adjustments should
have nothing to do with price move-
ments, but should be related to
productivity increases and the prevail-
ing capacity to pay. However, Mr
Hawke held up some hope of a more
rational approach by the unions when
he said that his idea of tolerable ad-
justments for price movements would
be of the order of i per cent a
quarter and that the overall fixation
should be part of a “general scheme
of economic control”.


THIS AUSTRALIA
THE VOYAGER
The Fateful
Few Minutes
Too much security?
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
CMDR KELLY, DSC
Never flustered
TI/Ir Justice Spicer has been asking
more questions at the Voyager
Royal Commission over the last few
weeks. For example, during one hour's
cross - examination of HMAS Mel-
bourne’s navigator, Acting-Commander
Kelly, last week the Royal Commissioner
interjected to ask 28 questions, probing
and clarifying with an occasional touch
of mild sarcasm —as in one question on
the Commander’s reactions with Voyager
some seven hundred yards away: “Isn’t
that an occasion when you might have
asked him what he was doing—l mean
in polite naval language of course?”
The third and fourth weeks of the
Commission have been taken up with
still more evidence on what happened
on the bridge of Melbourne in the fateful
few minutes on the night of February
10 last. The two most important
witnesses have been the navigator, Com-
mander Kelly, DSC, and the officer of
the watch, Sub-Lt James Alexander
Bate. It was after Bate's evidence that
Captain R. J. Robertson, Melbourne’s
captain, decided that he would be wise
to get counsel instead of attempting to
represent himself.
Even those who have been at every
sitting of the Commission have found it
difficult to piece together the movements
of the ships on the night. The fact that
radar evidence was taken in camera
and that some of the answers are
written (on security grounds) have con-
tributed to this. It is arguable that some
of the security precautions may be
going too far. It is difficult to under-
stand what refinements can exist in the
radar system of an old carrier that are
unknown to the Russians, or not in-
corporated, say, in the Indonesian Navy’s
Russian-built cruiser Irian. Something of
an anomaly was revealed when Mr L. W.
Street, QC, representing the late Captain
Stevens, of Voyager, questioned Com-
mander Kelly on how long it took
Melbourne to steady under turning.
Mr Jenkyn, QC, for the Navy, objected,
saying after a flurry of whispers with two
officers at his rear that the objection
came from “those better versed than I”.
Mr Street deferred but commented that
he had already cross-examined Sub-Lt
Bate on the matter at length. (He had
asked between six and 10 questions un-
challenged.)
Mr Jenkyn, a tenacious advocate, with
something of a reputation for looking
after hard cases for clients like the Rail-
ways and insurance companies, has been
the “objector” of the Commission, quick
to be on his feet at the hint of a drift
in questioning against his client.
Commander Kelly, who, as navigator
of Melbourne, holds the title of Fleet
Navigator, was the Navy's best witness
so far. Cool and cautious, he never be-
came flustered. He has a high reputation
in the service and it was ironical that
when his reports record was read out
the only qualification in the never-ending
praise came from Captain Robertson,
who some years ago on another ship had
suggested that he “should broaden his
interests”.
But the painstaking cross-examination
of Commander Kelly by Mr Street
served to raise what will be one of the
most difficult questions to confront the
Commissioner: How far the Naval
evidence is a matter of recollection or
reconstruction. After Mr Street had
finished, it was clear that the two were
inextricably merged in the Commander’s
mind. In a fine display of forensic
ability, Mr Street went through the maze
of statements to isolate nine matters on
which the Commander had expressed
conflicting views at different times. He
foreshadowed that he intended to view
the Commander’s evidence with “some
critical appraisal” in his final address. If
the Commander had a hard time under
Mr Street, Mr Smyth had also given him
a rough passage. A request by Mr
Smyth for rough copies of three or four
charts prepared by the navigator setting
out possibilities brought in a shoal of
documents. Commander Kelly had sent
for the documents from his office and
when the portfolio was delivered to Mr
Smyth it contained other notes relating
to the collision. Commander Kelly found
himself answering questions about a
note, scribbled on a scrap of paper,
which said “narrow scrapes. Don’t harp
on it.” In reply the Commander said
that he had known “one very narrow
scrape” and one “not quite so narrow”
in his experience.
Another find was a rough sketch on
how late Voyager might have avoided
collision. The Commander’s calculations
had shown that if she had gone hard to
starboard 45 seconds before the actual
collision it might have been avoided. This
calculation had been prepared for the
Captain's official report but was finally
not included in it.
Mr Smyth had earlier raised what
might be called the Mystery of the Miss-
ing Pages. It emerged that in both the
notebooks of the Officer of the Watch
and the Navigator there were two pages
missing, i.e., one sheet each. Sub-Lt
Bate said that he did not know where
his page was torn out or when, and
Commander Kelly suggested that he
might have torn out pages for scrap.
BUSINESS
The Straitjacket for Mr Korman
How safe can money get?
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
■fl/iTH the air in Sydney thick last week
with new suggestions for safe-
guarding debenture investments, down
in Melbourne it became plain that
Mr Stanley Korman has been put in a
straitjacket by the debenture terms
imposed on Factors when securing the
£l.B million loan from CAGA which
paved the way for its recent £5.4 mil-
lion payout to creditors and the rescue
from the receivership.
Some months ago (as noted in THE
Bulletin on January 11) CAGA in-
jected a couple of representatives into


the Factors’ board room to see that its
takings, property, goodwill and other
loans would not slip away but, it is now
revealed, at the same time plugged up all
avenues for its escape in the debenture
deed, yet getting the penalty interest
rate of 11 p.c. on its money.
The CAGA debenture not only has a
first charge over all Factors’ under-
assets in fact the whole business
but the deed also obliges the company
not to issue any shares except for the
purpose of repaying the loan (this could
hardly be successful in present circum-
stances anyway), not to borrow more
than £25,000 or to issue debentures
(more possible perhaps than shares) and
not to change its articles or memoran-
dum of association. Neither can it form
or acquire any subsidiaries during the
currency of the loan, nor can any of
Factors’ subsidiaries declare or pay a
dividend (also an unlikely possibility in
the foreseeable future) without CAGA’s
consent.
Moreover, if Factors is ordered to be
wound up, put in receivership or it
appears likely its future operations will
endanger CAGA’s security, the loan is
repayable on demand, and, although
Factors can repay the loan at its dis-
cretion in multiples of £lOO,OOO in ad-
vance, this would incur a payment of
one month’s penalty interest.
The hardest of these pills for Mr
Korman to swallow is obviously the
ban on borrowing, for at the meeting
in December he talked boldly of build-
ing up profit-earning capacity (on which
the repayment of the loan would seem
mainly to depend) by the injection of
more loan money into the company.
RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES
Blood in the Old Act
Pint-sized squabble or cause celebre?
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
B. M. SNEDDEN
Old curbs
question posed for the new Federal
Attorney-General last week was
whether the year-old pint-sized squabble
between the Jindera publican, John
Rowan, and the Carlton and United
Breweries could be turned into a cause
celebre to test the effectiveness of Section
7B of the Australian Industries Preserva-
tion Act 1906-55 and so further his
efforts to clamp new curbs on restrictive
trade practices on Australian business.
Section 7B says, in short, that any per-
son who, in relation to trade and com-
merce with other countries or among the
States, either as principal or agent,
refuses either absolutely or except upon
disadvantageous conditions to sell or
supply to any other person any goods or
services for the reason that the latter per-
son deals with a person or with persons
who are not members of a commercial
trust or is not a member of a commercial
trust, is guilty of an offence for which
the penalty is £5OO.
Mr Snedden had first to'study the facts
o the squabble, and these are not clear.
0 Mr Rowan’s claim that he had his
eer supplies cut off, the brewery answer-
f ' have not cut off supplies; we
ave cut off credit"; while to his claim
at two NSW breweries had refused him
supplies, they retorted simply that Jindera
as outside their agreed area.
Remembering the famous Coal Vend
case, brought in 1911 by the Common-
wealth Government under the Industries
Preservation Act against a combine of
coal and shipping companies for over-
charging, Mr Snedden would have to be
pretty certain a case against the brewery
wouldn’t fail on factual grounds. Because
in the Coal Vend case the Commonwealth
lost on those grounds after the combine
successfully appealed to the Full High
Court against a judgment by a single
judge in the Commonwealth’s favor.
(The case in the Full High Court lasted
73 days, then a Privy Council appeal.)
Against this, however, a 1912 amend-
ment of the Act purports to relieve the
Commonwealth from the onus of proof
in matters in intent. That has never been
tested, but a judgment brought down a
few weeks ago, in only the second court
case under the Act, six small tyre traders
got Sir Owen Dixon (in one of his last
deliveries as Chief Justice) and five other
High Court judges to agree they had a
right to proceed with an action (still to
be heard before a single judge in the High
Court) against major tyre manufacturers.
That action should effectively test the
Commonwealth’s powers under Section
7 of the Act, and Mr Snedden may be
quite happy to hold his fire against the
C and UB at least until it is heard,
though the final word on it might not be
said for a year or more.
CHIEF JUSTICE
After Sir Owen
A mystique for Menzies
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
HPhe Prime Minister, Sir Robert
Menzies, has two big jobs to fill.
He has to find a successor to the Chief
Justice, Sir Owen Dixon, who retires
next Monday, and to Sir Howard Beale
as Australian Ambassador to the United
States.
Normally political chieftains like Sir
Robert are rather glad to be in a position
to dispense a bit of patronage. It
enables them to get rid the easy way of
those they want to get rid of or to
reward those whom they feel are en-
titled to some reward for years of faith-
ful allegiance.
But Sir Robert has difficulties over both
jobs. The nature of the Chief Justiceship
provides one of the difficulties. Himself
a lawyer, Menzies has a reverence for
the post. It has a certain mystique for
him. It was a post that once had an
immense attraction for him and, but for
the fact that he became Prime Minister,
and during most of his period in the
Prime Ministership indispensable from
his Party’s viewpoint, he might today
have been Sir Robert Menzies, CJ.
As a lawyer who has never lost his
feeling for the majesty of the law he un-
doubtedly will be very choosey about
who he asks to take over the position;
and as a practising politician of long
standing he has a further difficulty.
The present Minister for External
Affairs, Sir Garfield Barwick, rated as
probably Australia’s top constitutional
lawyer before he quitted an extremely
lucrative law practice. But the question
then arises, is it wise for a man to move
directly from the arena of politics into
the aloofness of the High Court, although
Sir John Latham was one who did with
great distinction in both fields.
Menzies’ difficulties over a successor
for Beale in the Washington job indicates
a change of outlook in Australian
politicians. Once they were avid for
overseas jobs. Now they seem content to
work out their ambitions in Australia.
Menzies has not so far been able to find
his successor among the ranks of his
senior ministers.
There have been persistent rumors
that Menzies is now eyeing the ranks of
junior ministers to see if there is some-
body there he would like to have in
Washington. But the appointment may
yet have to be a career diplomat. Menzies
is now in the fortunate position that
Australia’s foreign service has matured.


“THE GROUP”—I
“See You in Court”
“DeZight” in London
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
A. RYLAH
Test
In London Weidenfeld and Nicolson,
publishers of “The Group,” are ex-
ploring ways of having Victoria’s ban
on the novel tested in the courts. In
Melbourne, the newly formed Freedom
to Read Association is examining the
same problem, as well as preparing a big
public meetins on “The Group” and the
literary censorship question in general.
Last week the Association’s President,
Professor Hector Monro, received a cable
from Weidenfeld and Nicolson express-
ing “delight” at the movement in Vic-
toria against the ban. “The publishers
will advise us of what support they can
give our moves at testing the restrictions
as soon as they have consulted their legal
advisers,” Monro said.
The Association has received over
£2OO in donations, mainly small ones. A
notable number of these have been from
New Australians, making mention of
book-banning episodes they had encount-
ered in totalitarian countries in Europe.
One letter, from a woman, referred to
herself as a person “who has known cen-
sorship in Europe under Hitler and
Stalin.” Much the same note was struck
by Rabbi Dr H. M. Sanger of the Liberal
Synagogue Temple Beth Israel, Mel-
bourne, who expressed “wholehearted
agreement with the aims of your com-
mittee” and then went on: I have seen
too much of book-banning in totalitar.an
countries. I know my own history as a
Jew too well not to regard book-ban-
ning as potentially dangerous.”
The Association’s executive has been
strengthened by the co-option of Dr Noel
McLachlan, a former leader writer from
the London “Times”, who is now a
Lecturer in History at Monash University,
Dr McLachlan believes that one factor
which tends to deter British and other
scholars from taking up academic ap-
pointments in Australia is the notoriety
we enjoy abroad through our frequent
censorship episodes. “One of the things
commonly associated with Australia in
the English mind was the existence of
ridiculous censorship law's,” he said.
The Association also took steps last
w'eek to form a committee of lawyers,
educationists and psychologists to
examine the whole gamut of Australian
censorship laws, Federal and State, with
a view to recommending improvements.
This committee will be asked to ascer-
tain the views of representative com-
munity organisations, including those
which support present forms of censor-
ship authorities themselves The nucleus
of this committee consists of Professor
Monro. Bishop Felix Arnott. Dr A.
Fabinyi and Dr McLachlan Experts in
various fields will be asked to join them.
Meanwhile inquiries reaching Mel-
bourne suggest that Canberra may be
the next city where a committee is set
up to examine problems of contemporary
Australian censorship. Canberra has not
experienced anything like the bans on
books imposed by the Victorian Govern-
ment but apparently a number of Aus-
tralian National University academics
feel that the position could, nevertheless,
be a lot better, particularly since the
Federal ban on “Lolita” and, as befits
the residents of a national capital, it is
felt strongly that a national approach to
literary censorship is needed.
SACKING PUBLIC SERVANTS
80 Years Ago: April 12, 1884
Take two cases that quite recently
have occurred in the Department
of Public Instruction —the case of the
young LOVELACE, who, having
been found guilty of seducing a pupil
teacher, was told not to do it again,
the Minister not being desirous to
blight the immoral young dog’s
career; and the case of Mr teacher
BRETTELL, who, being found guilty
of frequent drunkenness and disgrace-
ful behavior, was likewise told not
to do it again and retained in the
position of guide, philosopher and
friend to the youth of Cessnock.
So long as a Civil Servant offends
against the public only, let him be
reprimanded and retained at his post;
but if he fails in respect of any
formula dear to some routine-loving
TITE BARNACLE, let him go and
be cursed to him. Captain ARM-
STRONG, for instance, owed his
dismissal to the fact that he wouldn’t
kotow sufficiently to certain depart-
mental big wigs, and not that he had
in any way jeopardised the public
interests.
Another Waterloo veteran died in
the Bourke Hospital the other
day. Judging from the number of
survivors of Waterloo, even in this
colony, we come to the conclusion
that it must have been a very harm-
less battle. Which proves that the
best way to attain a green old age is
to go into the tented field. Most of
the combatants who were engaged in
the great victory may be expected to
die sometime about the end of next
century.
“THE GROUP”—II
“Ludicrous”
No prosecution
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
Nobody who knows him would want to
call Mr “Gus” Kelly, the bluff, ami-
able Chief Secretary of New South
Wales, a narrow puritan. Mr Kelly, who
is one of the old-style Labor politicians,
has a hearty sense of humor and wit.
But over the last few weeks he has found
himself elevated to the task of deciding
whether or not “The Group” is obscene.
With characteristic political shrewdness
“Gus” Kelly has not committed himself,
finally shuffling the book off to his under-
secretary and two other public servants.
However, he did go as far as to indi-
cate his real feelings by calling the pre-
sent conflict over censorship “ludicrous”.
What has been obvious in the affair
in NSW is that Mr Kelly has set out to
dampen the whole thing down. The
initiative for the move came from the
Vice Squad and it is no secret that Mr
Kelly has no great enthusiasm for their
action. (The Vice Squad in Sydney had
recently shown some energy in setting off
to chase the central figure in another
recent scandal, the ham-boning Univer-
sity student who, stripped, exposed his
rear to an audience of freshers. How-
ever, University authorities who imposed
their own £5O fine refused to co-operate.)
But even if Mr Kelly’s delaying tactics
make it clear that there will be no pro-
secution in NSW, the Vice Squad action
has still effectively removed “The Group”
from Sydney booksellers’ shelves.


WHEN YOU USE POWER, GOODYEAR MAKES WHAT YOU NEED
When you choose industrial rubber products durability
is of prime importance. Illustrated are seven striking
examples of the lasting qualities of Goodyear products.
But that is only part of the story. The
choice of a Goodyear product may
begin with many other aspects of its
use: extreme temperature conditions;
the need to withstand prolonged ex-
posure to weather; an unusual use
calling for a special design.
Goodyear meets such demands with
unrivalled world-wide experience in
industrial rubber. It comes to you
through the G.T.M. (Goodyear Tech'
nical Man). He is trained to give you
immediate, expert advice on any pro-
blem, and he is as near as your tele-
phone. When you need the answer to
a question about rubber, call him, or
write to the Goodyear branch in your
State.
m
Specified
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS
More industry relies on Goodyear Industrial
Products than on any other kind
GOODYEAR
This Goodyear V-belt delivers up to
100 horsepower, maintaining the
water supply of a W.A. town—
frequently under heatwave condi-
tions. It’s a job calling for the
utmost teliability—the sort of job
Goodyear is chosen for.
m
Hoisting a ton of rock every minute
is a tough job, but it’s a job handled
with ease by a Goodyear Bucket
Elevator belt at this Queensland
crushing plant.
Goodyear 'air hose solved the prob-
lem for one of, Australia’s largest
cement producers who wanted a hose
that could stand rugged handling
and still deliver 100% performance.
Impact after, impact but never a
sign of loading dock damage. Good-
year rubber fendering protects
vehicles, too, in this 200 feet loading
dock.
m
cWf:
Frequent replacement of rope mat
fenders was. a costly problem until
this harbour . tug was fitted with
tough, abrasion-resistant, resilient
Goodyear rubber fenders.
Australia’s greatest sugar lift at
Mackay, Queensland, is handled by
Goodyear conveyor belts. They stand
up to the assault of 650 tons an
hour.
C264D


CIVIL RIGHTS
The Trend Against
“Assimilation”
The Land Question
FROM N. PETERSON IN SYDNEY
DR H. W. NOBLE
“Queensland worst”
Tn his opening address to the seventh
annual conference of the Federal
Council for Aboriginal Advancement
held in Canberra at Easter, the Presi-
dent Mr J. McGuinness, spoke of 1963
as a year of a major break-through by
Aboriginal organisations against the Gov-
ernment's policy on Aboriginal welfare.
He was referring to such events as the
“Amendment Act”, the establishment of
a Parliamentary Commission (in answer
to the petition by the Yirrkala people of
Arnhem Land), and the granting of
voting rights in the Federal elections to
all Aborigines.
The conference covered conditions in
each State, legislative reform, wages and
employment, education and reserves.
There was also an open forum on
“Aspects of Assimilation”.
Although at the outset there was no
designated theme the speeches of the
Aboriginal delegates focused attention
on the Land Question. From Lockhart
River, Weipa and Yirrkala there were
stories of encroachment on tribal reserves
and, from Mapoon in Queensland, of
forcible removal by night to Bumaga at
the tip of Cape York.
In 1963 the people of Yirrkala peti-
tioned the Federal Government for pro-
tection against the alienation of their
tribal land to a mining company. This
resulted in a three-man Parliamentary
Commission to investigate land rights,
compensation and the failure to consult
adequately with the Aborigines them-
selves. Though the Commission did not
recognise the right of the people to the
land in perpetuity, the right to compen-
sation was conceded. This is extremely
significant, for it implies a type of occu-
pational land right which has not been
recognised before. The fact remains,
however, that the Aborigines do not own
their tribal reserves.
One course of action suggested to try
to secure recognition of land rights was
to ask the Government to ratify Conven-
tion 107 of the ILO. This convention
lays down the minimum standards for
protection and integration of tribal and
semi-tribal populations in independent
countries. The two relevant points are
as follows: (1) The rights of owner-
ship, collective or individual, of members
of the population concerned over the
lands which these populations tradition-
ally occupy shall be recognised . . .
(Where) removal of these populations is
necessary . . . they shall be provided
with lands of quality at least equal to
that of lands previously occupied, suit-
able for their present needs and future
development. (2) At all times the national
heritage and customs of the populations
concerned be recognised.
Australia has been a member of the
ILO since its inception but it has not
ratified this convention. If it had, the
land problem would have been avoided.
Closely linked with the above prob-
lem is the policy of “Assimilation”. Cur-
rent use of the term is lax, so that the
critical differences between it and “Inte-
gration” are obscured. Assimilation, as
it was originally formulated, meant the
eventual disappearance of the Aborigines
into the white community, both physic-
ally and culturally. Integration is a policy
of educating the Aborigine to take a
place in European society but also
encourage him to preserve as much of
his own culture as possible. Physical
absorption by intermarriage is not a
goal, though it may possibly occur.
Oome State Governments are unsure
that the majority of Aborigines are
hostile to the policy of assimilation, and
are beginning to modify their policy,
most noticeably in Western Australia.
One speaker warned the conference that
it was necessary to ensure that the pres-
sure for Assimilation did not become an
easy way for pastoral and mining inter-
ests to take over Aborigines’ land.
The reports of the Committees on
“Legislative Reform” and “Wages and
Employment” outlined the discrimina-
tions against Aborigines in these two
fields in each State. Queensland emerged
as extremely restrictive in its policy
towards Aborigines. There are 19,500
wards for whom the Director of Native
Affairs (Dr H. W. Noble) is responsible.
He controls the property of all wards,
handles their money whether they are
employed on or off stations; fixes rates
of pay for workers in the Pastoral Indus-
try at less than award rates; is guardian
of all children of wards under 21; must
give his sanction to all marriages, and
may move people from district to dis-
trict. Further the Aborigines may neither
vote in the State elections nor drink.
There is some indication that this may
change in the near future. At the pre-
sent time a three-man commission ii
investigating the laws.
The report of the Education Com-
mittee outlined practical steps for the
integration of Aborigines into the com-
munity. The key to the approach was
in its emphasis on asking the people
themselves what they wanted. The
resulting suggestions were that pre-
school kindergartens should be establish-
ed on all stations; that teacher train-
ing colleges should include short courses
on the special problems faced by Abori-
ginal children in Aboriginal and Public
Schools; that more scholarships be made
available and a survey into apprentice-
ship possibilities be conducted.
The FCAA is striving for the com-
plete legal, social and political equality
for Aborigines. As a major step in the
right direction it wants the Federal Gov-
ernment to take over the control of
Aboriginal affairs in all States and so
rationalise the present varied and tangled
legislation affecting them. Though it is
not possible to estimate quantitatively the
effect the activities of the FCAA had in
producing the advances of 1963, the
Council may fairly claim an important
part in stimulating them.
ELECTIONS
British Pupil?
Studying the Menzies speeches
FROM KEN SCHAPEL IN LONDON
British Prime Minister, Sir Alec
Douglas-Home, in his all-out effort to
win the general elections in Britain this
year, has become an eager pupil of Sir
Robert Menzies. The political and
economic climate in Britain today is
much the same as it was in Australia
last November, and current forecasts of
the result of the election run along the
same lines.
Britain’s economy is booming, as was
Australia’s last November. On every
standard Britain has rarely had it better
than now. Rate of growth is about five
per cent. This pattern of a booming
economy was in Australia, and now is
in Britain the economic back-drop to the
elections. Here is an extract from a
speech Sir Alec made the other day:
“I predict that the most exciting period
of economic growth is within our grasp.
Let us rid ourselves of these croaking
crows. Sometimes you hear the slogan—
Time for a Change. When things are
bad you change them. When things are
good you ask for more. What would
be the purpose of a change now?” You


could say that was a blatant pinch from
Sir Robert’s November election speeches.
Indeed, Sir Alec and his senior Ministers
have been studying all the major
speeches Sir Robert made in the Novem-
ber campaign, and those he made leading
up to that campaign.
Other identical approaches include:—■
Mr Wilson’s Labor Party is having the
same troubles on defence policy as Mr
Calwell’s Labor Party had before and
now after the elections. Sir Alec, like
Sir Robert, exploits these to get into
electors’ minds the idea of confusion
and distrust, which must result from the
lack of clarity in Labor’s policies. It
would not surprise me, as it did not
surprise me in the Australian elections,
to find that in the last analysis a huge
bloc of electors, reasonably satisfied with
the economic conditions, and chary
about whether Labor could really im-
prove them, will reject Mr Wilson
because they consider his defence policy
is clouded with too many imponderables,
too many question marks unanswered,
too far to the ambiguities of the Left,
and too much the plaything between the
Left and the Right.
Mr Calwell discovered that and there
is growing evidence that Mr Wilson is
to suffer the same rude awakening. Mr
Wilson is trying with increasing despera-
tion to get a clear-cut defence policy to
present at the elections. Mr. Calwell
tried that too. But Mr. Wilson appears to
be having no greater success than Mr.
Calwell. Whether Sir Alec can exploit
that to the extent that Sir Robert ex-
ploited it remains to be seen. He appears
to be succeeding.
Sir Alec, like Sir Robert, is putting
forth the idea that the first objective of
any Government must be to ensure nat-
ional security, and then behind such a
protective wall to build up internal pros-
perity. He argues, like Sir Robert, that
Labor, because of its vacillating defence
policy, would be pathetically weak in
ensuring national security, and so what-
ever it achieved internally would be of
little avail to the man in the street in the
long run.
Again, as in Australia, there appears a
fairly extensive opinion that Labor will
win. The journalist’s lobby in the Com-
mons, as the Press Gallery in Canberra
before last November, punts on a Labor
victory. All of this makes me suspicious
of the result . . .
EDUCATION
A Revolution in Teaching?
No more “little red hen and piglet trivialities ”
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
Tn London last month Sir Edward
Boyle, Minister of Education, told the
Commons of remarkable results achieved
with a new 44-letter alphabet being used
to teach reading to infants. Almost
10,000 British children are using the new
alphabet and next September thousands
of schools will introduce it.
After the announcement of this re-
volutionary innovation in British teach-
lnS> a Press conference in Melbourne
was called to give some details of the
new alphabet and how it was being
used in two Victorian schools. The
augmented alphabet is the invention of
Sir James Pitman, grandson of Sir
Isaac, inventor of the famous short-
Ij an< l- However, the main speaker at
the Melbourne conference was a visit-
ing American, Dr Ben D. Wood, Direc-
tor of the Bureau of Collegiate Educa-
tional Research at Columbia University,
New York, who has had considerable
experience in using the new system in
the USA.
Using the new alphabet, children
avoid ambiguities and the meaningless
Parrot-fashion learning which is involved
m so much spelling. Once the child is
reading with fluency and confidence in
e augmented alphabet, the transfer to
traditional orthography is very easily
accomplished.
Dr Wood assailed the “little red hen
and piglet trivialities of traditional early
reading books”. He predicted that Sir
James Pitman’s alphabet, when widely
used, “will create a genuine educational
revolution in the English-speaking
world”. Not the least of its virtues,
he said, was that it shifted emphasis
from teaching to learning: once launched
off, the child could, through his own
logical thought, largely teach himself
to read. Dr Wood also spoke of US
successful experience in using the new
alphabet to teach adult illiterates and
semi-literates to read and write.
Also present at the conference was
Mrs Aileen Hargreaves who reported
briefly on the introduction of the sys-
tem into two Victorian State schools.
At Warrnambool, after six weeks’ in-
struction, most members of a group of
children aged between five and five-and-
a-half were able to read simple sentences
and write simple compositions. They
will continue to be taught in the new
alphabet for about 18 months before
switching to orthodox spelling.
The other project is at Nunawading,
a Melbourne suburb. It is this one
which Mrs Hargreaves is watching par-
ticularly closely. Both have only been
going a few months, but so far the
results point to the same conclusions as
in Britain and the United States.
Pitman’s already have a score or more
elementary readers published in the new
alphabet, as well as a regular journal
devoted to discussing the experience of
teachers. The new spelling is not so
very different from the old: any educa-
ted adult can master it in a few minutes.
In fact, The "Bulletin took two of the
elementary readers and strolled at lunch-
hour into the grounds of the near-by
primary school attached to the teachers’
training college. Two eleven-year-olds,
after some initial puzzlement, and some
chuckles at the odd-looking letters, were
able to read the first primer quite
readily.
UNIONS
“Spitting in the
Party’s Face”
The “deserter ” hits back
FROM A BRISBANE CORRESPONDENT
HThe grip of Gerry Dawson, leading
Queensland Communist and one of
the members of the interstate executive
of the ACTU, on his union, the Queens-
land branch of the Building Workers’ In-
dustrial Union, was shaken last month
by Joe Harris a former vice-president
of the union and ex-Communist.
Harris, a tenacious man of about 40,
while still a member of the Communist
Party, had found himself in disagree-
ment with its policies. He attempted
to withdraw quietly only to find, as
others before him, that it was impossible.
A savage campaign of slander was waged
against him. Leading the attack was
the chairman of the Party’s Disputes
Committee in Queensland who wrote:
“He spat in the face of the Party.
He deserted his posts in the class
organisations and endangered our in-
fluence in the mass organisation in
which he worked.”
Last month Harris engineered a coup
designed to take advantage of a tech-
nical breach to sweep three Dawson
supporters off the Brisbane branch com-
mittee of the BWIU. However, at the
last minute one of his supporters with-
drew and the Dawson supporters closed
the gap to forestall the plan.
But the indications are that the leader-
ship of the BWIU faces a threat from
an opponent who knows the ropes and
could even in time threaten Dawson’s
own position.


\v
/
V
r^r
n
vc
"m
X 6
'/, v
<'i-
H
iWfii
i
®m
H
the gift
for that
certain
party!
Give the gift that shares its fun for
years and years: a Syphon by
Sparklets (makers of the original
soda-syphon). It’s the sensible way
to make soda-water. Just a finger-
touch and you liven any summer
drink with the sparkling boost that
only fresh soda gives. And Sparklets
have styled these syphons in the
shapes, sizes and decorator-colours
for today’s kind of living. They’re
the sparklingest gift idea ever.
Sparklets syphons
Sole Australian Agents: Wilmo Division, Monsanto Chemicals (Aust.) Limited
Choose from the wonderful
range of colours
GLOBEMASTER Syphon (double capa-
city); colours: Ruby, Silver Leaf,
Wedgwood. Old Gold, 169/-.
HOSTMASTER in Ruby, Pale Green,
Wedgwood, Poppy, Cornflower, Prim-
rose, Old Gold, 122/-.
De-Luxe Streamline Model in gleaming
chrome, 157/9.
Every syphon complete with Bulbs—
available almost everywhere. (Prices
slightly higher in some areas.)
i Sparklets syphons
Sole Australian Agents: Wilmo Division, Monsanto Chemicals (Aust.) Limited
Gift for the man
who has everything!
If ever he’s struggled to open a
bottle of wine, he’ll appreciate
this. Simply insert “Corkmaster’s”
needle—and the cork dramatically
removes itself! Quite surprising.
Quite effortless. Quite the perfect
different gift . . . Sparklets >
“CORKMASTER,” 54/-
complete with gift box.
Sole Australian Agents: Wilmo Division,
Monsanto Chemicals (Aust.) Limited
fm


OVERSEAS
Cambodia’s Sihanouk
Courteous, charming and unpredictable
From ALEX JOSEY in Singapore
George Bernard Shaw’s play “The
Applecart”, was written in 1929,
when Prince Norodom Sihanouk
was seven years old. An encyclopaedia
describes “The Applecart” as a play
“expounding the virtues of a monarchy
in political stabilisation”. On the stage,
Shaw's king threatens to set aside his
crown, create his own political party,
and fight general elections confident that
his great popularity could make him
Prime Minister. That, he said, is where
the real power lies.
Shaw’s play is not about Cambodia’s
ancient monarchy. But the story of
Prince Norodom Sihanouk is the true
account of a living king who did pre-
cisely that: who abdicated at the height
°f his personal popularity, formed a
socialist party, held elections, won every
seat, and became Prime Minister.
Shaw died in 1950. King Norodom
Sihanouk made Shaw’s famous play
come true five years later, a year after
the Kingdom of Cambodia became an
independent State, after almost a hun-
dred years of French colonialism, and,
earlier, of a long period of vassalage
to Thailand and Vietnam.
Cambodia’s monarchy is centuries
old. The name Cambodia is in fact the
Europeanisation of the name of the
a ncient kingdom of Kambuja, which
goes back a thousand years. From
earliest history, when the power of the
*ug was absolute, the monarchy has
I ee n the unifying symbol of all that is
Cambodian. In more recent times,
this symbol survived a hundred years
of colonialism, two world wars, the
domestic upheaval of independence,
and the Cold War. Today, as through
the centuries, the monarchy remains
the strong central pillar of Cambodia’s
TPo 5,000,000 easy-going Cambod-
ians their Prince President,
Sihanouk, embodies Cambodia's
past, present and future. Gay,
charming, intelligent and hard-work-
ing, he is obsessed by Cambodia’s
survival as a country among its
traditional enemieSi Thailand and
South Vietnam. Neither a Com-
munist nor a Communist sympath-
iser, he is taking Cambodia closer and
closer to alliance with Peking. Why?
Partly because of his anti-American-
ism, partly because he believes that
Red China, willynilly, will dominate
the whole South-East Asian peninsula
in years to come, partly because in
seeking Peking friendship he sees a
way of dealing with Thailand and
South Vietnam.
continued existence as a sovereign
nation.
Elected by the Council of the Royal
Family, Norodom Sihanouk was crown-
ed on October 28, 1941, three days
after his 19th birthday, following the
death of his grandfather, King Siro-
wath Monivong. He abdicated on
March 3, 1955, whereupon the Royal
Council elected his father, Norodom
Suramarit to be king. King Norodom
Suramarit reigned for almost exactly
five years. He died on April 5, 1960.
His widow, Queen Kossama Nearireath,
Sihanouk’s mother, is now the guardian,
if not the occupant, of the royal throne.
Prince Sihanouk is the Head of State,
and the effective political leader.
In 1947, when he was king, Noro-
dom Sihanouk gave the Khmer
nation a democratic constitution. For
the first time, the formal and temporal
powers of the monarchy were brought
within the confines of constitutionalism.
Yet the inherent symbolic and spiritual
powers of the monarchy persisted and,
not fully understanding constitutiona-
lism, most Cambodians continue tra-
ditionally to look upon the throne as
the source of real power and political
leadership. They place their trust in
the monarchy and, in return, expect
the throne to protect Cambodia’s in-
tegrity and religion and, in the words
of David J. Steinberg, “exert a power
that is personal, divinely inspired and
limited by tradition rather than
legalism.”
Malcolm MacDonald, for years Bri-
tish Commissioner-General in South-
east Asia, in his book, “Angkor”, re-
counts a dinner-table conversation with
Sihanouk which underlines the part the


monarchy continues to play in Cam-
bodia.
MacDonald said that Sihanouk’s con-
versation was ceaselessly interesting. He
was relaxed and cheerful. Sometimes
he monopolised the conversation. He
was then the king, and “laughingly he
talked about the tribulations of king-
ship.” His rustic subjects expected
him to perform miracles. Recently he
had toured a remote province where the
weather was foul, bandits were loose,
wild beasts ate the crops, and other
misfortunes affected the peasantry.
When His Majesty appeared among
them they asked him to put a check
on all these disasters.
“I cannot control these things,” he
said.
“But you’re the king,” they replied
with charming simplicity.
“Yes, but I have no power over un-
bridled elements, savage beasts and
wild men,” he retorted.
They stared at him dumbfounded,
disappointed.
“I’m the king, but I’m also a mere
man,” he explained.
Malcolm MacDonald continued: “To
them it was incomprehensible. They
did not regard him as wholly human.
As his ancestors had been ■ to their
ancestors, so he was to them, a semi-
divine being.”
That was in 1948. King Sihanouk
had been on the throne for seven years.
He was not then 26. In Saigon, w'here
he was educated at the Lycee Chasse-
loup-Laubot, he was, in his youth,
described as “possessed of a capacity
for short-lived enthusiasm and an art-
less candor.”
These two factors, the personality
and character of Sihanouk, and the awe
in which the monarchy is still held by
most Cambodians, must always care-
fully be taken into account when con-
sidering Cambodian problems. Just as
history cannot be ignored when exami-
ning Cambodia’s tense relationship with
her neighbors, Thailand and South
Vietnam.
It was in 1353 that a Thai army
first captured the capital of the Khmers,
at Angkor Wat. Wars w'ith the Thais
continued for centuries. Angkor w'as
looted many times, and thousands of
artists and scholars were carried away
as slaves to Thailand. Between the
fifteenth and nineteenth centuries, Cam-
bodia had also to resist the aggressions
of Vietnam.
Thailand laid claim to Cambodia.
Cambodia sought aid from Spain and
Portugal, but their intervention was in-
effective and, in 1603, Thailand forced
Cambodia to accept a king w'holly under
Thailand's domination.
For the next 260 years, Thailand and
Vietnam struggled for control of Cam-
bodia. Cambodian kings tried some-
times to play Thailand and Vietnam off
against each other. But in 1846, Thai-
land and Vietnam together put Ang
Duong, founder of Cambodia's present
dynasty, on the throne. Cambodia
then became subjected to a dual vas-
salage.
Sihanouk is well versed in Cambo-
dian history. Every move made by
Thailand and Vietnam today is viewed
against Cambodia’s historic background.
What, he says to himself, are Cambo-
dia’s traditional enemies up to now?
But, sensibly and realistically, Sihanouk
does not believe history should be
allowed to determine Cambodia’s pre-
sent relations with his neighbors.
Sihanouk insists he is ready to be
friends, “if only they will respect my
frontiers.”
In 1866, King Ang Duong sent “four
elephant tusks and four sampots” with
a request to Napoleon 111 in Paris.
“W'e understand,” he wrote, “that the
Emperor of France is good and does
not pursue the aims notorious in other
European sovereigns, who are inter-
ested only in exploiting other people.
For this reason we will be pleased to
conclude with the Emperor of France
a lasting alliance wTich will make our
country great and prosperous to the
benefit of its inhabitants.”
In his letter, King Ang Duong stated
that the alliance w'as conditional upon
the return to Cambodia of territories
stolen by Vietnam. Perhaps fortunately,
the trusting King Ang Duong died be-
fore he received an answer, for his
son Norodom w'as forced to hand over
tw'o provinces to Thailand as the price
of French protection. Representatives
of Thailand and France crow'ned him
king the year when France, in effect,
became master of Cambodia. Twenty
years later, w'hen King Norodom resisted
demands for more power, the French,
whom the Cambodians did not think
w'ere like other European colonialists,
trained a cannon on his palace.
History was to be repeated 89 years
later w'hen young King Sihanouk called
upon Cambodians “to defend the inde-
pendence. integrity and honour of our
Cambodia.” Again French guns were
set up, their barrels pointing towards
the royal palace.
Sihanouk remembers history. He
remembers that Thai invaders destroyed
the once mighty Cambodian kingdom
of the Khmers in the 14th century. He
know's that while Cambodian border
provinces ceded to Thailand were re-
turned to Cambodia in 1907, the Thais
took them away again with the help of
the Japanese invaders in 1941, and
were not given back until the bomb
dropped on Hiroshima.
In view of all this, Prince Sihanouks


preoccupation with foreign policy is
understandable. He fears for Cambo-
dia’s territorial integrity. Every troop
movement Thailand makes is viewed
with suspicion. Sihanouk rages that
South Vietnam frequently violates his
frontier. These incidents, usually re-
sulting in the loss of Cambodian life,
in addition to South Vietnam’s occupa-
tion of certain off-shore islands and rich
provinces formerly Cambodian territory
(where live some half million Cambo-
dians), makes, says Sihanouk, diploma-
tic relations with South Vietnam, as
with Thailand for other reasons, most
difficult to maintain.
Cambodians are proud of the fact that
Cambodia is the oldest political entity in
the Indo-China peninsula. Cambodia’s
documented history begins with remains
that place the man in Cambodia in the
Neolithic period. Hemmed in between
South Vietnam on the east, Thailand to
the west, and Laos to the north, Cam-
bodia’s southern frontier is formed by
the Gulf of Siam. In the context of
South-east Asia strategy, Cambodia
geographically occupies a most important
position.
Cambodia is a country of jungle,
rubber, rice and fish. The Great Lake,
which covers about a thousand square
miles in the dry season, acts as a huge
natural flood regulator by accepting all
the excess waters of the Mekong River
which enters Cambodia in a fury when
the snows melt in Tibet. In the wet
season, the Great Lake spreads to more
than 1500 square miles. Most of Cam-
bodia's rivers also empty into the Great
Lake, which is said to yield more weight
of fish per cubic metre of water than
any other natural fishing ground in the
world. Rice and fish form the staple
diet of the Cambodians, most of whom
are poor but literate. The majority of
Cambodians live along the banks of the
river. Fishing is the principal occupation.
The French remain
Qni.y about some ten per cent of Cam-
bodia’s 44 million acres of potentially
fertile land are under continuous cultiva-
tion. Experts say that Cambodia, which
now has a population of six million
(including 300,000 - Vietnamese and
300,000 Chinese), could easily support
another two million people. Of the four
million acres under cultivation, 2,500,000
are used for rice, yielding over a million
and a half tons of high quality rice
annually. About 200,000 acres are given
over to rubber plantations owned ex-
clusively by the French. With 47,000
tons a year, Cambodia is the world’s
sixth largest producer of rubber. Rubber
is Cambodia's largest export. Ninety per
cent of the foreign currency earned from
rubber stays in Cambodia. Cambodia’s
socialist prince issued an order to
nationalise all foreign banks, but he has
made no move to take over the French
rubber plantations.
Economically, Cambodia is under-
developed, although progress is being
made. Politically, Cambodia, as other
countries in South-east Asia, has found
parliamentary democracy, introduced by
Sihanouk in 1947, to be a delicate plant.
Political factionalism emerged almost
immediately, and threatened the Govern-
ment which was dominated by King
Sihanouk and his family.
In the first election, the Democratic
Party, under the leadership of Son Ngoc
Thanh, Prime Minister of Cambodia
during the Japanese occupation, won an
overwhelming majority in the National
Assembly. At once they began to block
all legislation sponsored by the king.
Quarrels broke out in the Assembly. The
king stepped in and dissolved the
Assembly, and for two years ruled
directly. New elections were held in
1951. Again the Democratic Party won,
and started to give jobs in the civil
service to party followers.
After a few months of this, Sihanouk
intervened, shut down the Assembly, set
up an Advisory Council, and ruled under
what he called a Royal Mandate, from
1952 to 1955. Sihanouk then held a
nation-wide referendum, the first in
Asia, to decide by a “yes” or “no”
whether he had carried out his three
years’ mandate to achieve independence
and security for Cambodia.
Cambodia obtained complete indepen-
dence in 1954, at the Geneva Confer-
ence, following the defeat of the French
by the Vietminh at Dien Bien Phu.
Soldiers and bonzes (monks) were
allowed to vote and, of the 927,000
votes cast, Sihanouk obtained more than
925,000. Acclaimed Cambodia’s national
hero, Sihanouk knew that the time had
come for him to give up the throne and
to enter politics.
Sihanouk renounced the throne, he
said, to serve his people, to make sure
that political powers will be exercised by
the people themselves and to give them
“the means of removing the injustice,
corruption and exploitation which they
have suffered for so long”. It was, he
added, his belief that such a task could
not be fulfilled by a reigning sovereign.
With his abdication, Sihanouk freed him-
self from restrictions placed upon him
by palace and tradition, yet he retained
the aura that in Cambodia attaches to
everything royal.
Without delay, ex-king Sihanouk
began to create Cambodia’s most power-
ful political organisation, the Sangkum
Reastr Niyum, or People’s Socialist
Community. ,In September, 1955, all
was ready. Elections were held, and the
Sangkum won all 91 seats. Prince
Sihanouk became Prime Minister. Son
Ngoc Thanh had already fled abroad.
Since then the Sangkum has dominated
the Cambodian political scene.
Siva and Vishnu
/"In practical grounds, not necessarily
for reasons of principle, Sihanouk is
a fervent believer in neutralism for Cam-
bodia. He does not want Cambodia to
become, like South Vietnam and Laos,
a battlefield for the Cold War. As a
realist, he argues that when “two
elephants are fighting, an ant should
stand aside”.
Wilfred Burchett, the Australian
Communist journalist, claims that it is
interesting to find the germs of the
present - day Cambodian policy of
political co-existence in the religious co-
existence of ancient times. Burchett
points out in his book, “Mekong Up-
stream”, that the favorite Hindu deity
worshipped in Cambodia for a long time
was Harihara, a composite of the two
chief rival Hindu deities Siva and
Vishnu. They still form the main rival
sects in India. Harihara was equally
divided, half Siva, half Vishnu. Even
today, when Theravada Buddhism is the
official State religion and Hinduism has
entirely disappeared, there are Brahman
priests at the Royal Palace in Pnom
Penh. They preside over certain
traditional ceremonies.
Believing the integrity of the Cam-
bodian to be threatened by his neighbors,
both, Sihanouk considers, wrongly, to
be “puppets of the Yanks”, Prince
Sihanouk insists that his policy of
neutrality is essential if Cambodia is to
exist as an independent State. His
present unfriendly attitude towards the
United States (he ordered American aid,
worth $3O million a year, to stop as
from January 1, 1964) is based upon
three beliefs: first, that the CIA still
plot to overthrow him; second, that the
Thais and the South Vietnamese would
respect his frontiers if the Americans
ordered them to do so; third, that Cam-
bodia’s strict neutrality policy, and
refusal to become aligned, like Thailand
and South Vietnam, with the anti-Com-
munists, is the reason why the United
States will not subscribe to his request


vt>
INSIDE
ONTHENEW
INTERNATIONAL
TRO VAN
FROM THE MOST COMPLETE RANGE OF TRUCKS IN THE WORLD
■
s
-
■-v-1
h
;; , .-.
■% -• 1
ifiip -
>
. :
■ ■
fer'w^p
; 1, 1
'■■: ': 1 '. ■
*V»THE INTERNATIONAL
METRO VAN STORY . . .
Here now, in Australia . . . the
greatest seller in the “multi-stop
distribution range" in the U.S.A.
today ... a design, tested and
proved on the world’s busiest
thoroughfares . . . Australian-
built to withstand the rigours of
multi-stop operation.
*]' THE BIG NEWS is increased
accessibility and driver efficiency
. . . doors slide, seat folds for-
ward. reaf doors swing in a 270
arc. The driver has complete
freedom of entry or exit from
the side or rear, can walk right
through from side to side, or
frpnt to back . . . handles the
load quickly, easily; saving time,
money, fatigue.
. In-
>[Cthe lid is off .
ternational proudly presents the
newest addition to the Australian-
made range . . . the new Inter-
national Metro Van available in
a full range from 30 cwt. to 6
tons . . . with a choice of body
styles to suit your particular
needs.
PERFECT PACKAGE
. . . Various designs in all types
of weight-saving van bodies . . .
made possible by employing cab-
forward principle . . . greatly in-
crease payloads, lower delivery
expenses. Van bodies can be re-
frigerated and include special
shelving arrangements.
WITH FEA-
TURES . . . Improved visibility'
from the big windshield and the
sloping engine hood . . . fibre-
glass panels, light, strong, and
easy to maintain . . . easily'-ac-
cessible engine many other
features make International
Metro Van your best buy with a
far lower initial cost than any
similar van and a far greater
profit potential. See it now!
SEE YOUR LOCAL IH DEALER OR RETAIL
SALES OFFICE FOR A TEST-DRIVE
□
INTERNATIONAL. TRUCKS
THE MOST COMPLETE
RANGE IN THE WORLD
.WORKS: DANDENONG,GEELONG AND PORT MELBOURNE.
.. rMTHJ.XIJi:


that another Geneva Conference be
summoned (with the Soviet Union and
Britain as chairman), to guarantee Cam-
bodia’s frontiers and neutrality.
On top of that is Sihanouk’s personal
dislike of Americans as people, an
emotional reaction first created by an
early blundering American ambassador
named McClintock, whom most Cam-
bodians thought arrogant and rude. He
was notorious for appearing at receptions
with a swagger stick under his arm and
a dog on a leash. In most countries in
the East this is not considered polite
behavior. In Pnom Penh, Cambodians
were affronted.
More recent diplomatic developments
hopefully indicate that the United States
might agree, with South Vietnam,
Thailand and Cambodia, to sit down to
discuss matters of common interest. But
I am inclined to share the opinion of
other students of Asian affairs that the
outcome of this conference is unlikely
to prove of much usefulness unless there
is willingness and intent to dispel deep-
seated differences.
This, briefly, is the background to the
man Norodom Sihanouk, Cambodia’s
Head of State, justly acclaimed as the
builder of modern Cambodia. Malcolm
MacDonald was captivated by his charm
and friendliness. He found Sihanouk a
keen horseman, an accomplished water-
skier, a polished musician, an able com-
poser, an expert on Cambodian folklore
and history, a writer of romantic poetry,
and an astute politician. MacDonald
thought him an “affable host, greeting
his guests with dignified informality.
This he achieved in spite of the fact
that his own subjects, however exalted
they might be, bent double and almost
crawled in homage to him when they
entered his presence, a gesture un-
believably servile to Western eyes. But
adulation did not affect his natural un-
spoilt manner”.
Neither, I recall, did China’s Premier
Chou En-lai, bat an eyelid or move a
facial muscle when Cambodian servants
crawled on their knees to serve Prince
Sihanouk and him with champagne
during Chou’s visit to Pnom Penh in
1956.
Sihanouk’s anti-Americanism
VI/hen I saw Prince Sihanouk at Siem-
reap in February this year during
the visit of Tunku Abdul Rahman and
President Macapagal of the Philippines,
Sihanouk gave an unexpected mobile
Press conference which began in the
entrance of one villa, continued outside,
and then, haltingly, proceeded for some
50 yards to the entrance of the Prince’s
own villa. This rambling affair went on
for more than an hour and much of it
was devoted to American-Cambodian
relations. Worried officials, terrified to
remind the Prince himself of his strict
schedule, frantically but silently ges-
tured behind the Royal back to news-
men urging them to stop asking
questions.
Sihanouk told the American news-
men to their faces what he thought,
with frankness and courage. He tapped
a tall American on the chest and ex-
claimed: “We know you do not like
us. We do not like you. Your planes
bomb our villages on the borders and
kill Cambodians. To you they may be
like monkeys on a tree, or animals in
the forest. It may not matter to you if
Cambodians are killed. But they are
my countrymen, monsieur, and I care.
That is why we do not like you. You
are here now because of this summit
meeting. We want you to go away
from Cambodia when it is over.”
Said an angry and startled American,
scribbling furiously in his notebook:
“Who says we don't like you?”
Sihanouk looked up, surprised. Cam-
bodian court officials were amazed to
hear this blunt question hurled, without
address (most correspondents addressed
Sihanouk as Your Highness), at Cam-
bodia’s ruler.
“I know you don’t,” replied Sihan-
ouk quietly. Then he proceeded rapidly
to reveal what he said was a plot of
the CIA “here in Siemreap. They came
with gold and smuggled guns. A Cam-
bodian general sold himself to them.
They planned to overthrow me and cap-
ture Siemreap and Battenberg and to
join these provinces to Thailand. We
have all the documents.”
Intrigued, the correspondents crowd-
ed around the now excited Head of
State. Most of them were taller than
the less than five-foot prince. Asked
one reporter: “When did all this hap-
pen?”
“In 1959,” shot back the Prince.
“You want to know the name of the
CIA agent responsible? I will tell you.
He is Victor Matsui. Later,” added
the Prince, “when I was visiting Cairo,
I saw him there. In spite of his in-
volvement in a plot against me I found
that this man was still working for the
American Government. They never
repudiated him.”
Sihanouk has travelled a great deal,
in China, the United States, in the
Soviet Union and Europe. He speaks
French fluently, English with ease, and
Russian a little.
A matter of wives
Cihanouk is popular in Cambodia
because lie goes out to meet the
peasants: he mixes with them. He has
established himself as their personal
leader. He is naturally courteous, un-
affectedly friendly, and has a deep sense
of humor. “The Americans call me the
Pink Prince,” he chuckled to President
Macapagal. Most observers consider
that Sihanouk has no serious rival in
Cambodia, politically. His enemies say
this may be true, but they add that
Sihanouk is vain, ambitious to become
a world figure, that he loves ceremony,
receptions and fireworks, and that he
spends more money entertaining State
guests than Cambodia can properly
afford; and, in all, tends to treat the
Kingdom of Cambodia as his personal
toy and plaything.
Sihanouk’s defenders hotly deny this,
and they point to his decision to cut
down the number of Cambodian em-
bassies abroad “because Cambodia is a
small State unable to afford luxuries”,
as evidence of Sihanouk’s thoughtful-
ness and thrift.
Nowhere in the official biographies
of Prince Norodom Sihanouk is there
any reference to his marital status. Nor
are Court officials willing to discuss
this matter. In Cambodia, they say,
even royalty has the right to a private
life which can be completely apart from
an official life. Father of 13 children,
now, at 42, a grandfather, Prince Noro-
dom Sihanouk is a prince without a
princess because he never married royal
blood. His 13 children have four
mothers. Two children are being edu-
cated in Paris, two in China, two in
Moscow, one in Prague. His consort
is Madame Monique Sihanouk.
Not five foot tall, inclined to plump-
ness, with thick black hair and large
eyes, a roundish face, and hands which
are never still, Sihanouk possesses a well-
developed, constantly employed, impish,
highly civilised talent for detecting
humor in most situations, and people.
He gave an example of this while
taking President Macapagal round the
ruins of Angkor Wat. He pointed to
the pool where, hundreds of years ago,
harem girls bathed, “hundreds of them,
monsieur”. Someone in the party made
an appropriate remark which I did not
hear in full. But I saw Prince Sihan-
ouk turn to the President. I heard him
say: “But do you know, Mr President,
that even in modern times, during the


All
the
best
names
live
together
Ferodo of England and Hardie*
Ferodo of Australia
for Friction Industrial Materials.
Clayton of U.S.A.
for Testing Machines, Steam and
Drying Equipment.
DoALL of U.S.A.
for Testing and Measurement Machines
and Bandsaw and Grinding Machines
and Blading.
Dennis of England
for Fire Appliances and Equipment,
Paxit Refuse Collectors, etc.
Sellers of U.S.A.
for Jet Cleaners, etc.
Xing of U.S.A.
for Testing Equipment.
Dowty of England
for Pneumatic and Hydraulic Rings
and Seals.
Super Oil Seals
of England
for Hydraulic Hoses and Couplings.
Ingersoll of England
for Testing Equipment.
Denison of England
for Testing Equipment.
Skokie International
for “Davis" Trenchers.
Reavell-Fahie of England
for Industrial and Engineering Control
Equipment.
U.S. Automatic Box of U.SA
for Box Making Machines.
Llewellyn Ryland Limited
for Paints, Colours and Varnishes,
Stokes of U.S.A.
for Chemical High Vacuum Pumps,
Vacuum Metallizing Equipment, Tablet*
tnj; and Tube Filling Machines.
Call your man today at
W-P&G
WPG47/63
Second World War, my grandfather, the
king, had 60 wives? Yes, your excel-
lency, 60 wives.”
The President chuckled, lost for a
comment. Prince Sihanouk beamed
and added: “Nowadays, of course, we
must be much more austere.”
At which President Macapagal roared
with laughter. “More austere,” he re-
peated weakly, and that was all he
could say.
Sihanouk can be informal, humane,
understanding, and friendly, yet he is
also sensitive, and jealous of his royal
dignity. He can be quick to take
offence, sometimes observes an insult
never intended. A man with a high,
nervous voice, quick physical move-
ments, and intense concentration, Sihan-
ouk’s charm is matched by his ability
and vitality. In a breath he can be
amused, sad, and aggressive. He is
not a very patient listener. He is de-
ceptively intelligent. He once admitted
to me, when discussing the Thais: “I
am quick-tempered. I am a proud
Cambodian. When anyone is rude to
me I am prompt to reply.” Sihanouk
chuckled when he said that. He knows
himself better than most.
Persons in a position to judge, remark
that it is not always wise for people, or
nations, to act immediately upon utter-
ances sometimes made by the Prince
angrily, on the spur of the moment. They
say he frequently has second thoughts.
These are often ' a modification of
remarks made impulsively and honestly,
if not always prudently.
The shadow of China
rp H is characteristic has prompted
certain observers to comment that
Sihanouk is a man of sudden ill-con-
sidered remarks and gestures. This is
not accurate. Friends will concede that,
on occasions, Sihanouk is apt to think
aloud his innermost thoughts, but they
warn against generalisations. For ex-
ample, Sihanouk’s decision, in 1953,
suddenly, at night, secretly, to leave
Pnom Penh, to motor unheralded across
the frontier to Thailand, at a time when
he was trying to force the French to
give Cambodia complete independence,
was thought by some to be “deplorably
childish and politically injudicious, not
to say perplexing”.
In Bangkok, Sihanouk lived in a hotel
for a week as a voluntary exile and
declared he would not return to Cam-
bodia until the French gave way. Un-
happy with his reception in Thailand,
W'here he was requested not to indulge
in politics, he came back to Cambodia,
and set up headquarters in Siemreap
with the Cambodian Army. He vowed
never to return to the capital until the
French gave him full satisfaction.
Eventually he had his own way.
Sihanouk has since explained that he
went to Bangkok to “alert world opinion
and give a final warning to the French”.
Experts now agree, looking back, that
Sihanouk's unusual move was coura-
geous, bold, unorthodox, and, more
important, successful.
Again, later, many people thought he
impulsively renounced the throne. In
fact, it was a step suddenly taken, but
long premeditated. Truth is. that
Sihanouk has always been aware of the
value of the dramatic gesture: he can
think in world headlines. He is an able
journalist himself, and his sense of news
values has managed to keep his small
kingdom a prominent place in world
affairs for nearly twenty years.
This is not because Sihanouk yearns
for personal publicity. His motives con-
cern the survival of Cambodia as a
sovereign State, which is the core of
Sihanouk’s domestic and foreign policies,
and the purpose to which all his remarks
are relevant and all his energies directed.
In December, 1962, Sihanouk told an
interviewer that “it is improbable that
we will succeed in dissociating our future
from that which awaits all Asia, and that
future is dark.” Sihanouk added: “I wish
to emphasise that I have never wished
the victory of Communism in Asia, but
I acknowledge that it seems to me in-
evitable because of the errors in this
region by the free world and its par-
tisans.” By partisans Prince Sihanouk
means Thailand (then ruled by Marshal
Sarit), and the South Vietnam of Presi-
dent Ng Ngo Diem. Diem’s death does
not seem to have changed Sihanouk’s
mind about South Vietnam.
Against this “gesture of realism”,
made as a criticism of Thailand and
South Vietnam as much as anything else,
must be placed Sihanouk’s frank remarks
at Pnom Penh airport upon his return
from China in 1956.
“In a Communist country,” he said,
“the people work without respite day
and night in the factories and on the
construction sites: teams of workers
succeed each other one after another.
Women and old people cannot remain
inactive. Over there, human life is of
little importance . . . Cambodia is faith-
ful to the worship of Buddhism: it is
thus impossible for it to accept such a
regime. You can be entirely assured on
this point. Let us content ourselves with
the present regime of our country.”
In spite of his remarks, six years later,
about the dark future for Cambodia and
Asia, I believe that Sihanouk still holds
the view that Communism is not suitable
for Cambodia. But, whatever ideology
may overtake Cambodia, Sihanouk will
undoubtedly continue to struggle for
Cambodia’s separate identity as a
sovereign State.
That is Sihanouk’s understandable
obsession, his very flame of life.


Keep fully informed on KEY PRODUCT information,
send TO-DAY for your FREE personalised
PRODUCT AND DATA MANUAL
from Westeels - Paul&Gray
WOSto
•WtUSi
w
Keeping in touch with the latest processes and developments in your industry is essential to the operation
of a profitable business. Now you can do it easily, quickly, thoroughly, through Westeels-Paul & Gray. -
TEST EQUIPMENT
□ Dynamometers—Engine Tast
□ Special Plant for Testing \
by HEENAN and FROUDE of
ENGLAND
□ Dynamometers—Chassis
by CLAYTON of U.S.A.
□ Testing Machines
by TINIUS OLSEN of U.S.A.
DENISON of ENGLAND
KING of U.S.A.
WILSON-ROCKWELL of U.S.A.
TABER of U.S.A.
INGERSOLL of ENGLAND
DoALL of U.S.A.
BATY of ENGLAND
□ Measurement
by BATY of ENGLAND
DoALL of U.S.A.
MOORE and WRIGHT of
ENGLAND
ETALON of SWITZERLAND
DRIVES and BRAKES
□ Eddy—Current—Variable Speed
(Controlled, Programmed,
Synchronising, etc.)
by HEENAN and FROUDE of
ENGLAND and EATON
MANUFACTURING CO. of U.S.A.
STEAM and DRYING EQUIPMENT
□ Packaged steam Generators
□ Steam Cleaners
□ Space Heaters
by CLAYTON of U.SA. and
AUSTRALIA
□ Tank Cleaning
□ Jet Cleaners
by SELLERS of U.S.A.
TOOLS—MACHINE and HAND
□ Bandsaw Machines and Welders
□ Grinding Machines
by DoALL of U.SA
□ Blading
by DoALL of U.S.A.
TURNER ATKINS of AUSTRALIA
DARWIN of ENGLAND
□ Carboloy Cemented Carbides
by HARD METALS of AUSTRALIA
D High Speed Cutting Tools
by PATIENCE and NICHOLSONS of
AUSTRALIA
SUTTON TOOL and GAUGE of’
AUSTRALIA
TOOL EQUIPMENT CO. of
AUSTRALIA
FROST of AUSTRALIA
E.S.C. of AUSTRALIA
DORMER of ENGLAND
DARWIN of ENGLAND
SCHOELLER BLECKMANN of
WEST GERMANY
□ Files (Engineers')
by WILTSHIRE of AUSTRALIA
STEEL—ALLOY and SPECIALTY
□ Hollow Bar
□ Strip
□ Rods
□ Angies
□ Piston Ring
□ Tubes and Pipes
□ Wire
□ Bars
□ Magnet Iron
□ Other Specials and Custom Alloys
by SANDVIK of SWEDEN
□ Die Blocks
□ Machine Knives
by HEPPENSTALL of U.S.A.
P Circular Saw Plates
by STRIDSBERG and BIORCK of
SWEDEN
CHEMICAL COMPOUNDS and
EQUIPMENT
□ Cleaning
□ Processing
by TURCO of U.S.A. and
AUSTRALIA
MATERIALS—INDUSTRIAL
□ Friction
by FERODO of ENGLAND and
HARDIE-FERODO of AUSTRALIA
□ Anti-friction .
by J. W. ROBERTS (FEROBESTOS)
of ENGLAND
O Mechanical Packings and Seals
by CHESTERTON of U.S.A.
PNEUMATIC and HYDRAULIC
EQUIPMENT
□ Pneumatic Service Equipment
by NORGREN of ENGLAND and
U.S.A.
□ Hydraulic Hoses and Couplings
by AEROQUIP of U.S.A. and SUPER
OIL SEALS of ENGLAND
□ Rings and Seals
by DOWTY of ENGLAND
FASTENINGS—INDUSTRIAL and
CONSTRUCTION
□ Production Blind Riveting Systems
by GEO. TUCKER EYELET of
ENGLAND and TUCKER of
AUSTRALIA
□ Cartridge Powered Systems
by S.A.S.S.E. of FRANCE
□ Stud Welding
by CROMPTON-PARKINSON of
ENGLAND and WESTEELS of
AUSTRALIA
□ ALSO... ask your man at W-P&G
for your check list of INDUSTRY SPECIALTIES.
For your personalised copy of the Product and
Data Manual, tick the items relevant to your
operation, mail the list, attached to your letter-
head,— or phone Mr. Service at any of these
phone numbers:—
822 Ann Street, Valley. Brisbane. Tel.: 52271
Room No. 1, Cnr. Scott and Bolton Sts., Newcastle. Tel.: 81595
31-33 Parramatta Road, Lidcombe, Sydney. Tel.: 648 0199
1056 Dandenong Road, Carnegie, Melbourne. Tel.: 211 6961
165 Main North Road, Nailsworth, Adelaide. Tel.: 65 9021
WPG42/63


OUT AND ABOUT
Enigma Without Variations
The silences of Jon Molvig
By JAN SMITH
( t -«TOU don't talk like a journalist,”
Y Jon Molvig said, and it wouldn't
have done much good anyway.
Even John Pringle, in “Australian Paint-
ing Today”, has given him a short half-
dozen lines, mainly dates and places,
whereas people like Dickerson, who will
talk you blind about anything from Vir-
ginia Woolf to politics, get lavish para-
graphs. It is possible, of course, that
Mr Pringle didn’t think Molvig was
worth any more, but to anyone who has
met Molvig, it looks more like despera-
tion than disapproval.
ATN interviewer Rodney Milgate,
who has the advantage of being a painter,
managed an interview last year, but when
Molvig comes to Sydney from Brisbane
for his yearly exhibitions at Rudy
Komon’s, time goes back 10 years. To
him, I am still the girl who modelled for
his art class at Kangaroo Point, in St
Mary’s basement, every alternate Thurs-
day, to supplement her handsome £6 a
week as a cadet journalist.
The art classes were a boon to both
of us. He extracted fees from an earnest
class of bank clerks and housewives,
doled me out the regulation 255. (12s. 6d.
an hour for alternately roasting and
freezing in front of a singlebar radiator)
and we’d both go out for our first square
meal of the day. Usually it was a ham-
burger shop in Petrie Terrace, near the
Police Barracks and the tram depot.
Mostly we walked, denying ourselves the
luxury of the trolleybus, because we
didn’t want to waste our night’s earnings
too soon. Molvig used to swear he walked
home afterwards to West End, one of
Brisbane’s less respectable suburbs, which
must have taken a good hour.
In those days he was in what he calls,
or allows you to refer to, as his horse
phase—leaping animals in tawny, red
and ochre swirls, moving violently in
a desert landscape. You saw them
occasionally in . the old Johnstone
Gallery, a damp basement in Brisbane’s
oldest arcade, already attracting atten-
tion from the tiny band of art-lovers in
pre-art-boom Brisbane. Major Rubin
bought one, but it is unlikely that he
paid anything near the £350-plus that a
Molvig brings today.
A few people had heard of him, but
nobody knew much about him for the
simple reason that he never gave any-
thing away. He was born in Newcastle,
but would never say how he came by
his Norwegian-sounding name. He left
school early, lost some ribs during the
war in New Guinea and the Philippines,
and took up art with his friend John
Rigby under a rehabilitation scheme at
East Sydney Technical College. In 1949
he went to Europe, studying art and
taking odd jobs in factories and German
breweries.
It was Rigby, at that time art director
of Brisbane’s Noble Bartlett agency, who
bequeathed the art class to Molvig in
1954. Beside Rigby, who was pint-sized,
dark and quaint, Molvig was the closest
thing we’d seen to Van Gogh before Kirk
Douglas. He wore a beard—a rarity in
Brisbane buttonless red shirts and
seemed to exist on instant coffee. Even
in those days he was difficult to talk to,
and had developed the wise smile and
the knowing look to a social art.
Today the old Kangaroo Point studio
has gone, and Molvig has a new place
in Spring Hill which, judging by the
galloping real estate development in the
area, probably lacks a lot of the charm
of the church basement, where the
sound of evensong services filtered down
among the paint and dirty coffee mugs.
Sometime last year he married a
Dutch girl called Ottie, but as yet they
have no children. “I don’t want to un-
load too many geniuses on the world,”
Molvig joked, but he has the makings of
an uncompromising parent. Somehow
we got around to the subject of Easter,
and the wisdom of telling children about
the crucifixion. “If you don’t like it,
make him skip the religious instruction
classes,” said Molvig firmly. “There's
people being crucified every day, one
way and another.”
With four major changes of style, he
is probably our most unpredictable
painter, but his worst enemy couldn't
say it was to accommodate public taste,
which follows obediently into each new
phase. His paintings are not for the
squeamish or the romantic, and if one
looks for a fashionable adjective, un-
compromising is probably the best word.
This month, confronted by a gallery
of faceless nudes at Rudy Komon’s, it
was plain to see the black grounds and
flower-wheel symbols of his Industrial
Eden phase had been abandoned. The
women were spindly, washed-out wraiths
with angular limbs and wildly un-
anatomical pelvic joints, leaving one
with a choice of being non-committally
flip or doltishly plainspoken.
In another part of the gallery were
some sketches, one of them for Joy
Rogeenkamp, this year's Archibald miss,
who at least went down to posterity with
eyes, nose and other necessary accoutre-
ments. “They can mean anything you
want them to mean,” Molvig said gen-
erously of the nudes.
Fellow-painter Andrew Sibley, sensing
a deadlock, suggested a drink at the local
pub, which did little more than to demon-
strate that enigmatic people are best left
that way. . Molvig’s careful obtuseness
slackened, but nothing came to fill its
place. !
When Sibley, pressed into the question-
ing business, asked why he didn’t take a


m
■
'V
m
LA
lil.
mq
s
's\
1/
s
MW
■■PHI
■
: / #■■':
■
m
mm
:
■LIJW^
*■
IfMA
. :
' &' * . <
[m
I m
: y.:''-V ■;; : ■./, ;v ■
Bhßßh
; ■ ;
m
o
i
/»
///
..
v»r
'
«iita
■ ■
X
■
..
■i
ALLTHROUGH
THE
One oil space heater can
warm your home at the
cost of warming a room!
No more chilly corners. No more roast-one-side-
freeze-the-other.. Oil space heating is here to
give you luxurious warmth the modern way.. .all
through your home, all through the winter. You’ll
be more comfortable you’ll pay less for it.
Oil space heating is ideal not only for homes
existing as well as new but offices, schools,
halls, swimming pools and all buildings requiring
ample heat at low maintenance and running cost.
HEATING
Easy Heat. No messy filling, or cleaning out.
Modern oil space heating looks after itself.
Clean Heat. No dust or ash to ruin paintwork and
fabrics. You save on cleaning and redecoration
too with oil space heating.
Safe Heat. No open flame, no glowing elements,
no dangerous hot spots. A child can safely touch
the heater fume free too.
And you’re never out of fuel. Your outside tank
is filled regularly by your Caltex Heating Oil
distributor. Your bills are monthly and small!
FREE 16 PAGE BOOKLET
Caltex Heating Oil Division,
Caltex Oil (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. (in Capital city of your State)
Please send me without obligation your free 16 page booklet
on Oil Space Heating. I am interested in heating: (tick as
appropriate) a New home Existing home Other buildings
NAME
ADDRESS
CA9I3


chance on Sydney (Sibley moved here last
Christmas from Brisbane) Molvig sucked
in his teeth, made an idiot face, and
said he liked the bananas.
Back at the gallery, a visitor was say-
ing the right thing to a beaming Rudy
Komon. “All this mythology and bush
legend at the Adelaide Festival has set
Australian art back ten years,” the visitor
insisted. “We must progress. In spite of
the critics.” But Molvig, helping out
Sibley’s opinion that he was a humble
man at heart, said nothing, and began
to extract a tie from his pocket to wear
to lunch at the Showground with Komon
and Sir Charles Moses.
He hoped they wouldn’t tell long,
boring stories, a remark that might have
been endearing and understandable from
someone who hadn't spent the best part
of the morning providing long, boring
silences. In the old days Molvig’s silences
were intriguing. Today they’re an
occupational hazard.
Sex in Oxford
Teaching patience and savoir-faire
By DOM MORAES
The towery city was misty between
towers. The young men in the
quadrangle imitated polar bears:
they were swathed in parkas, and a
Nigerian, no doubt feeling the cold more
than the rest, had furnished himself with
a radiant blonde as well. My host tapped
out his pipe and consulted his watch. His
eyes were on the young woman, but I
had misconstrued his motive: “It’s a bit
early,” he said querulously, “for a woman
to be in college.”
“But it's nearly lunch-time.”
“They’re not supposed to come in till
after. Ah, well. What was I saying?
Yes: the university doesn’t disapprove of
an undergraduate having a sex life.”
It was a curious remark, but apro-
pros, since I had just asked him about
the recent kerfuffle in Oxford, when
Worcester rusticated a young American
who was discovered by his scout, one
morning, to have a girl in his cupboard.
The tumult and the shouting had now
died: but a recurring murmur of unrest
is still audible amongst the undergradu-
ates. Strangely enough (and this reflects
the change in Oxford since the Waugh
years when Christ Church men in
Daimlers took leopards to lunch at the
George) the protest is largely about the
fact that the rusticated American had
already paid his fees for his rudely in-
terrupted term: “He hasn’t,” said an
undergraduate in the Rudolph bar, “had
his money’s worth.”
Having listened to the undergradu-
ates, I had come to my friend, the don,
to find out what the authorities felt
about the matter.
“We feel,” he said, in an inexorable
lecture-like way, “as Graham Midgley*
said in his sermon, that this is a Christ-
ian university, and undergraduates ought
to conform to the Christian ethic. We
cannot have them ah fornicating
all over the place. But it’s a matter for
their own consciences. We do not
interfere.”
“It seems to me a very dubious idea,”
I said. “That this is a Christian univer-
sity, I mean.”
“Humph,” said my friend.
It is true that the university doesn’t,
according to the proctors’ memorandum
to undergraduates, have any actual ruling
about sex. However, “conduct liable
to bring the name of the university or
any of its members into disrepute is a
serious offence,” says the memorandum,
and an uninhibited sex life could, I sup-
pose, constitute such conduct.
The statute under which the young
American was rusticated had nothing
to do with sex as such, or that is what
the dons say: he was rusticated for
breaking the college rule that women
should not be in a man’s room after
ten p.m. or before ten a.m.
But it isn’t true that the university
doesn’t interfere with the sex lives of
undergraduates. Quite obviously the
authorities cannot cheer the young
lovers on, but they are by no means
neutral.
For instance, undergraduates are not
allowed to have locks on their doors.
There can be only one reason for this,
apart from kindness to petty thieves. The
absence of a lock not only permits the
scout or the Junior Dean to pop into
the bedroom in the small hours, it also
paves the way, during the day, for the
multitude of uninvited visitors whose
constant arrivals teach the Oxford un-
dergraduate the virtues of patience and
that savoir-faire for which I believe he
is known outside the city. While
savoir-faire can be maintained in the
face of a stream of acquaintances, of
course, love cannot. But it tends to
find out a way. A case much talked
of in my day was that of a young man
(who was not only connected with the
university theatre but adored women,
a rare combination in Oxford) who,
having smuggled a girl into his rooms
in college, proceeded to live there with
her for several weeks. Inevitably, he
was found out: but though all lesser
evasions of the law pall before this, it
is, if not easy, not unduly difficult to
arrange for female company overnight
in most colleges.
Mine, for instance, had three gates.
The main one opened into the lodge,
where an unbribable porter memorised
all women who came into college after
dusk. But there were also two side
gates, which were closed at 8 p.m. and
opened at 8 a.m. At 7.30 p.m., therefore,
the young lover, having previously
purchased enough food and alcohol
to last the night, ushered his lady in
through a side gate and got her, un-
observed, to his rooms.
The next hurdle was, of course-, the
morning, unless the lady was willing to
climb out of college in the dark over a
barrier of rotating spikes, scarcely a
fitting end to a romantic passage. The
scout tended to invade the bedroom at
dawn, with atrocious jokes and a cup
of tea. The answer was that the young
lover drooped out to intercept him with
an account of an epic hangover, thus
ensuring that the scout didn’t come in.
Thereafter he invited two friends who
lived nearby to coffee, and then produced
the girl, by this time fully clad. The
side gates were now open, which meant
that hypothetically she could have
entered college unremarked by the
porter. An intruding official would only
have been able to find the undergraduate
guilty of a very minor infraction of
college rules.
If the girl was unwilling to put up
with all this, an understandable reaction,
or if she was herself an undergraduate
compelled to return to her own rooms
by a certain time, there was another
solution: which led, as somebody ex-
plained to me, to the curtains of several
bedroom windows in women’s colleges
being drawn for some hours in the early
afternoon.
One verifiable fact is that sex, like
the sea, obeys no orders, and when the
university assumes the posture of Canute
it becomes both ludicrous and wet. If
the authorities are as neutral as they say
they are about the sex lives of under-
graduates, they should have taken a
different course in the case of the young
American: they should have fined him
for a breach of college regulations and
left it at that. Otherwise they will take
on the air of rather bigoted ostriches,
or come to resemble the woman under-
graduate whom I asked about her
reaction to recent events. “Why have
you come to Oxford to write about sex?”
she asked, and turning her large, beauti-
ful, mirror-like eyes round the pub filled
with (admittedly rather horrible) young
men from Christ Church, she said sadly,
“Sex is dead.”
*Dr Midgley is Dean of St Edmund
Hall.


mm
m
Ibirl
■
>
k ;*
St i
>sSi
ifefllfllllM
Mm
%*m
-' •
v-
<k
%
V
%
: -f-x
mm
A
I : | ■
| - ; ■ wW
......
W$
.„■■■
WPP
’
'
, j>- . : :W.
P.W."!• J WKpUOIra!! t £»oj»
. »'t " *
*" « H0 tm> 1
- -A;a*37
. ..
Harvest the forests!
Sure-footed John Deere Equipment reaps rich rewards from woodlands
the world over. Each year, millions of board feet of lumber and
untold cords of pulpwood are sent to sawmills, and paper mills for processing
into building materials and paper products. By providing a variety
of quality farm and construction equipment, and always dealing
on a basis of mutual advantage, John Deere aims to serve in over 125
countries as a continuing partner in progress.
WO R L D-WI D E
JOHN DEERE AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN N.S.W.) BOX 4284. G.P.O. SYDNEY. AUSTRALIA
DISTRIBUTORS
AGRICULTURAL & INDUSTRIAL Q'ld.: Deering Machinery Pty. Ltd., Hastings Park, Kerry Road, Archerfield. S.A.: Tractors (S.A.) Ltd., 696 Port Roacf,
Beverley. W.A.: Wigmores Machinery Pty. ltd., Cnr. Great Eastern Highway & Koojan Ave., South Guildford. Tas.: Cameron & Sutherland (Sales) Pty. Ltd., 6 Collins
Street, Hobart. Branch at Cameron & Sutherland (Sales) Pty. Ltd., 330-336 Invermay Road, Launceston. N.T.: Hastings Deering (N.T.) Pty. Ltd., Stuart Highway, Darwin.
N.G.: Hastings Deering (New Guinea) Pty. Ltd., Port Moresby, Papua. N.G.: Hastings Deering (New Guinea) Pty. Ltd., Lae. N.Z.: Gough, Gough & Hamer Ltd., 145
Cashel Street, Christchurch. INDUSTRIAL ONLY Distributors N.S.W.: J.D. Industrial Equipment, Horsley Road, Milperra. Vic.: Intrac, Cnr. Dougharty & Kylta
Roads West Heidelberg, N. 23. AGRICULTURAL ONLY N.S.W.: W. & J. Farm Equipment Pty. Ltd., Mitchell Rd. & Coulson St., Alexandria. Vic.: John Deera-
Ausfralia Pty. Ltd., 300 Ballarat Road, Braybrook.


FORUM
You Can Trust the Trust
...to make “a complete hash of it ”
By C. R. BADGER
(Director of the Council of Adult Education, Victoria)
It is a dispiriting fact that there are
very few people concerned with the
Arts in Australia who have a good
word for the Australian Elizabethan
Theatre Trust. It is not only that the
Trust does not enjoy the support and
confidence of the major artistic organ-
isations in the Commonwealth those
which contributed substantially to the
development of the Arts in Australia
before the inception of the Trust might
be forgiven for looking askance at it,
for the Trust has done nothing to help
them and a good deal to injure them:
the fact is that among individuals,
among actors, writers, singers, pro-
ducers, and among people concerned
with, but not directly engaged in, the
practice of the Arts, the Trust does not
stand high. Opinions vary; some are
actively hostile; others, more moderate,
are resigned; very few believe in the
Trust or hope much from it. Is this
just the alleged Australian habit of
“knocking”? a relic of colonial in-
feriority, a symptom of immaturity? Or
is the trouble with the Trust?
My view is that the trouble does lie
with the Trust and that it is deep-seated
and will not be easy to remedy. It is a
two fold trouble and it arises from the
very nature and constitution of the
Trust itself. My contention is that very
little permanent good can come from
the Trust while it remains in its present
form and that there is a distinct danger
that if it continues to work along the
lines now followed, and if there is no
substantial change in its constitution and
policy, the artistic development of the
country may well be set back a decade
or two. The Trust, as now constituted,
doing what it now does, is not really a
helpful factor in the cultural life of the
Commonwealth. Nothing is likely to
come out of its efforts which will be
significant, and it has a depressing effect
on the w'ork of more intelligent and
artistically lively groups.
In advancing the view that the Trust
suffers from a two-fold trouble, I am,
of course, over-simplifying a very com-
plex situation, but it is convenient to
look at the two principal difficulties in
the effort to see what could be done.
Again, for purposes of convenience, I
propose to take the major problems
singly, though they are, in fact, closely
linked and cannot be remedied in
isolation.
From the outset, the Trust has been
dogged and damned by the lack of a
clearly conceived and practicable policy.
It has never set before itself, let alone
set before others, objectives or goals
selected in the light of the Australian
situation which were capable of being
realised. It has, in fact, defined its
objectives in woolly generalities only
occasionally coming down to earth. Inso-
far as one could judge from its actions
as against the statements which emanate
from time to time from the Chair-
man or from its officers, what the Trust
really wants to do is to establish full-
time permanent, high-level companies
for drama, opera and ballet in this
country, under direct Trust control and
management, guaranteed against loss by
the Commonwealth and State Govern-
ments and backed by schools of various
kinds, again, under the direct super-
vision and control of the Trust.
A few minutes’ serious thought about
this programme reveal its crass stupidity,
its impractical character and the dangers
inherent in it, to the extent to which it
is seriously pursued. In the first place,
and given the Australian situation, such
companies must be based upon either
Melbourne or Sydney and the resources
required for their support will make it
impossible for the Trust to do anything
significant for other places. Secondly,
without theatres in all States, without
permanent orchestras for the opera and
ballet, with the inevitable inbreeding
and artistic strangulation which comes
from monopoly control, these companies,
having plenty of money but no genuine
public support, will soon cease to be
anything but occasions for artistic rows
and coterie politics. This is to foist
official, government-sponsored art on the
public: virtually to deny opportunity to
any other form of enterprise, by deny-
ing it any possible form of subsidy or
support, and to place the whole theatri-
cal future of the country, apart from
the commercial theatre, in the hands of
a small group of private individuals.
Such an enterprise is bound to fail: the
astonishing thing is that people who are
apparently quite rational and knowledge-
able should ever have entered upon it
and regarded it as an acceptable policy.
What the Trust’s first endeavors in
the way of building a permanent, high-
level and national company, capable of
setting artistic standards for the whole
country, capable, eventually, of showing
the Australian style abroad, giving ex-
perience to the work of Australian play-
wrights, designers, etc., really amount
to can be seen by examining the fate of
the Elizabethan Theatre Company based
on the Trust’s Theatre at Newtown in
Sydney and associated with NIDA at
the University of NSW. That is, indeed,
a sorry history. The attempt, in the first
place, should never have been made; the
Trust, however, having made it, should
not have abandoned it, but carried on
until the experiment was either demon-
strably a failure or until it had achieved


I iHH
t -•. ,X* * " .
; • - t. . <
.._ ■ «.
11
y
.
y /j
x .Wws-
Wm&&m
X 1 • I
*
a >*
■.
* Mifli MM I
*
~u~*a Z. L - ' - -i“ " ' *
■A., , __, . -.. '
*§p m *
..?'.’»?...'..4{.\w1.'1A!i £*•'.: *..:
.
m
Open invitation from HERTZ
Hertz, the world’s Number One car rental company, offers you the finest
service there is. World-wide experience. Efficiency. Extra thoughtfulness.
Hertz, now in Australia, gives you the very same unparalleled service that
executives in over 70 countries enjoy. Hertz offers clean new Holdens
and other fine cars from experienced, well-equipped licensees in every
State. Call your travel agent, hotel, motel or nearest Hertz office:
Adelaide ■ Kennedy’ s-Hertz, 74 Grote Street. Telephone Number: 51 5278-80.
Brisbane ■ Cahill's-Hertz, 93-103 George Street. Telephone Number: 2 0505-6.
COFFS harbour ■ Coffs Harbour Rent-A-Car, Moonie Street. Telephone Number: 833.
Melbourne ■ Astoria-Hertz, 630 Swanston Street. Telephone Number: FJ 9048.
Newcastle ■ Kennedy’s-Hertz, 14 Wood Street. Telephone Number: 61 3486.
PERTH * Sydney Anderson’s-Hertz, 1 William Street. Telephone Number: 21 9134.
Rockhampton ■ Godwin’s-Hertz, Victoria House, East Street. Telephone: 2733-4251.
Sydney ■ Lessey’s-Hertz, 55-61 Riley Street, Sydney. Telephone Number: 31 0556.
gold COAST ■ Duncan's-Hertz, 15 Beach Road, Surfers Paradise. Telephone: 9 3055.
Contact any Hertz office for details of the Hertz International Credit Card System.
WORLD WIDE
HERTZ
RENT A CAR
Let HERTZ put you in the driver’s seat!
HI. 103
whatever success the original conception
permitted it to achieve. The Trust, how-
ever, moved rapidly from that experi-
ment a relatively simple one and,
having made a complete hash of it,
immediately began upon the far more
difficult and hazardous experiment of
permanent opera and ballet planned
on exactly the same lines. It is no
satisfaction at all to find that the Trust
now thinks that its policy in drama
ought to be support for local, decen-
tralised companies, and that its fussy,
interfering management seems deter-
mined to ruin these. It is quite impos-
sible to see how the Australian position
has been helped by the institution of a
ludicrously small venture like the “Old
Tote”—largely at the cost of the Uni-
versity of NSW. It did not need the
elaborate machinery of the Trust to set
up “Little Theatres” of this kind.
This kind of criticism can easily be
construed as a direct attack upon the
Trust. In point of fact, it is simply a
statement of the facts and of the facts
as they are bound to be, as they inevit-
ably will be, so long as the Trust con-
tinues to define its objectives in ways
which rational thought indicates to be
incapable of fulfilment. Nothing is a
good substitute for thought, for careful
appraisal of facts, for rational calcula-
tion of ends and means, and of this kind
of thinking there is no evidence at all
in Trust circles.
The mischief goes deeper, however,
than this. There is a fatal flaw in the
constitution of the Trust, from which
much of the mischief arises. All the
thinking of serious people in the Arts in
Australia, before the setting up of the
Trust, was directed to ways and means
of organising a structure, somewhat like
the Arts Council of Great Britain, which
should enable public money, with proper
safeguards, to be used for the support
of the Arts. Following the “Guthrie”
Report of May, 1949, it seemed that
nothing would be done, since there
seemed to be no general agreement on
what was desirable. In these circum-
stances, the initiative and energy of Dr
H. C. Coombs was invaluable, and in
a remarkably short space of time the
Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust
was constituted and received both public
and governmental support.
Nothing in the subsequent history
should be allowed to detract from the
debt ow'ed to Dr Coombs for his leader-
ship at this time. The fact, however, is
that the Trust thus constituted in-
evitably—was set up as a private non-
profit-making corporation. It was not a
semi-governmental agency, or statutory
body, such as the Arts Council of Great
Britain. It was, therefore, seemingly in-
evitably committed to the view that its
responsibility towards the Arts in Aus-
tralia was to provide, directly and of


SELECTIVE VIEWING AND LISTENING
High. C for Mario
When Puccini’s “Tosca” takes the air this year
on ABC, La Scala star Nicola Filacuridi will play the role of ill-fated Mario Cavaradossi.
But it will be hundreds of man-hours away from the ABC studio rehearsal photograph you
see here. Why does the ABC spend so much time and energy in producing opera to worlcj
standards? Is it justified in appeal? The ABC and thinking viewers and listeners say “yes!*
Grand Opera is part of the ABC’s national policy of Selective Programming. Here are
specific programs presented with specific audiences in mind. And, particularly in the case
of Grand Opera, dramatic audience ratings are proof that such a program policy meets a.
vital need in Australia. Selective Programming takes many other forms besides opera.
Penetrating documentaries. Provocative drama. Sophisticated humour. News. Forums
that allow minorities to give their points of view. Often, because of their timeliness, they
are last-minute additions. Watch your program guides carefully and help yourself to new
and stimulating TV viewing and radio,
listening.
mz
THE NATIONAL TELEVISION AND RADIO SERVICE
■
*
yi
a sr
$ ■» *l. 5 , ■> *
■ •
r ,r : '
***


:>:x :
...* 4
msm
:
; v J
f
’ y
r
m
you cant look wrinkled
m
Our customers expect us to be smart and fresh looking all the
time, even though we're on the job all day long and thanks
to Cesarine we have no worries about our appearance. Our
uniforms have been beautifully and thoughtfully designed;
they give us best protection and look wonderfully
attractive. And they're laundered often, but they always coma
back looking like new —fresh, crisp, colourful. Thanks again to
Cesarine. Our boss says Cesarine is good value too!
CAESAR FABRICS LTD.—Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Launceston
SERVING AUSTRALIA UNIFORMLY
CPB33
itself, for better theatrical fare than had
hitherto been offering; it did not con-
ceive its function as that of planning for
the development of the theatre, of edu-
cating an audience, influencing public
opinion, of creating new institutions, of
supporting, encouraging and helping to
raise the standards of theatre generally.
Its view of its purpose was shown very
clearly by the appointment of the first
executive officer, the distinguished Eng-
lish producer, Hugh Hunt. The Trust, it
seemed, was to be a producing body, not
a policy-making administrative force in
the community.
Had the decision gone the other way,
and had the Trust been constituted by
an Act of the Federal Parliament, with
its powers and functions defined with
some precision and its financial basis set
out, it is not certain that the results
would have been happier, but there is a
distinct presumption that more would
have been achieved. Under the present
constitution of the Trust, there is no
genuine responsibility, no definition of
duties, no possibility of constructive
criticism.
Even though the Trust is now virtu-
ally dependent for its very existence on
grants from the Commonwealth and
State Governments, it is not technically
responsible to them. It reports only to
its members, it need not heed critical
opinion, what it does is its own affair.
The members of its various boards and
committees are elected and were origin-
ally elected on grounds which may or
may not have been appropriate, but are
hardly the grounds on which a Govern-
rnen, would have appointed the members
of a statutory body to aid the Arts.
What we have in Australia is a very
clear and extremely disquieting indica-
tion that neither Government nor people
care enough or see clearly enough the
importance of the Arts to elaborate a
national policy on the matter, or to set
up a proper institution to implement
that policy. Whatever the virtues of
private enterprise in the Arts —and they
are many and real there is no sub-
stitute, in the modern world, for a care-
fully thought out plan by which the
Government can at once aid the Arts to
raise standards and make artistic en-
deavor more readily and more widely
available. If the Trust had succeeded
brilliantly in its effort, instead of fail-
ing miserably, if it promised to achieve
even more in the future than in the
past, there would still be a need for a
body directly responsible to Parliament
and to the people, to concern itself with
the national culture. As it is, we have
the sad spectacle of public money being
frittered away for no permanent ends,
we have a great deal of irritation and
frustration and, on the part of the
public, a very large amount of apathy
and distaste.
It is not too late, even at this stage,
to invite the National Government and
the National Parliament to look criti-
cally at this matter. It would be perfectly
simple to reconstitute the Trust as a
statutory authority for the Arts and to
define its powers and functions accur-
ately.
Can we expect that the Trust itself
will try to remove some of its own
impotence by reconstituting itself as a
statutory body? Can we expect that it
will look at the experience of Great
Britain, of Canada, of New Zealand,
and realise that what is required is 1
new start? Can we hope that the Govern-
ment itself will understand the futility
of the present arrangements, under
which it pays the piper but denies itself,
not only the right to call the tune —as
it should—but the right to audit the
accounts —which it should not. The
answer, almost certainly, is No. The
Trust will go on muddling; artists and
public will be irritated and annoyed,
and until there is a genuine apprecia-
tion of what ought to be done, nothing
at all will be done. It is deadlock.


JEWS IN THE SOVIET
During the years of the Hitlerite occupation, the
Zionist leaders served the Fascists.
(One of the most blatantly anti-Semitic cartoons ever
to have appeared in the USSR.)
The Ensnaring Nets of Judaism
Are Being Torn Up.
The Rabbis’ Vengeance on Opponents.
No, Not from the Rib is
Woman.
(Illustration for chapter dealing
with the alleged debasement of
women in Judaism.)
The Zionist Lies.
(Caricature of the Jewish
-capitalist-imperialist and
the religious Jew. Judaism
is thus presented as subversive a
charge never made against other
religions in the USSR.)
Bonn-Gurion.
(The document reads: “An Agreement to supply arms to
the Bundeswehr.” “Bonn-Gurion'’ is an accepted Ukrain-
ian way of referring snidely to the alleged military
alliance between Israel’s former Premier, Ben-Gurion,
and West Germany. The ghost of Auschwitz is trying
to stay Ben-Gurion’s hand.
The swindlers in religious articles brawl
among themselves over the spoils in the
synagogue.
(Speculation in matzoh, pigs, thievery, de-
ception and debauchery are portrayed as
the real characteristics of~ many synagogue
leaders.)


In the Nazi Tradition
Anti-Semitism in the Soviet Union
Ben-Gurion at Work.
( Ben-Gurion shown erasing the word "not” from the Com-
mandments. “Thou shalt not commit murder”, “Thou shalt
not steal.”)
Torah and Talmud The Webs of
Obscurantism.
All sorts of swindlers and cheats
find refuge in the synagogue.
(A Stuermer-type Jew wearing
phylactery a religious article used
by Jews at morning prayer—grabbing
synagogue funds.)
God destroyed all the first-born of Egypt.
(Illustration of reference in the text to the bloodthirst of the Jewish
God.)
By EDWARD CRANKSHAW
Anybody who still believes Mr
Khrushchev when he insists that
there is no such thing as anti-
Semitism in the Soviet Union would have
his faith shaken—if he could read Ukrai-
nian—by a small book recently published
in Kiev under the auspices of the
Academy of Sciences of the USSR.
This book, by T. K. Kychko, is called
“Judaism Without Embellishment” and is
a vicious and scurrilous attack on Juda-
ism illustrated by cartoons which might
have been taken straight from the pages
of anti-Semitic journals published in the
heyday of Nazism.
“The author of this book,” says the
introduction, “reveals to the reader the
real essence of the Jewish religion
(Judaism) —one of the ancient religions
of the world which has collected within
itself and distilled everything that is
most reactionary and anti-humane in the
writings of contemporary religions.
“The book contains many instances to
show how honorable Jews are finally
breaking away from the Torah and the
Talmud, because they have come to
understand that these are instruments
for the insidious corruption of the
faithful.
“The book is intended for a wide
circle of readers.”
The first thing the “wide circle” will
see is the cartoons, which do not show
honorable Jews, but only Jews, carica-
tured in familiar style, engaged in bend-
ing down to kiss the Nazi jackboot, or
corrupting youth, or squabbling over the
loot in synagogues, or doing deals with
Federal Germany.
These cartoons are deliberately calcu-
lated to exacerbate anti-Jevvish opinion,
which is strong enough in Kiev and the
Ukraine without further inflammation.
The text of the book is ostensibly direc-
ted against the Jewish religion, as distinct
from the Jewish race; but it is so con-
trived that the attack on religion, sancti-
moniously blessed by two distinguished
sponsors (“This profound and substan-
tial work . . . will be a valuable manual
for propagandists of atheism in their daily
work”), turns into an implicit attack on
Jewry as such.
Thus: “The entire Judaic cult is the
translation of trade and commerce into
religious language. The sale of matzoh
. . . burial rites, circumcision, marriage
and divorce —in all these money is of
prime importance, as is contempt for pro-
ductive work.”
And again: “One of the Command-
ments of Judaism is ‘Thou shalt not
steal.’ But, as the Koshen Mishpat inter-
prets these words, it is only from Khavers
(i.e., from your Jewish neighbors) that
you must not steal. But you can steal
everything from others, because, as is
written in the ‘Sacred Scriptures,’ Jeho-
vah handed over to the Hebrews all the
wealth of the Gentiles.
“If the Jews did not take everything
into their hands, it was because they did
not want to lose the labor-power of
Gentile workers.”
And so on for chapter after chapter.
This sort of thing has been written and
published in all countries. But only in
Nazi Germany, and now in Soviet Russia,
has it been given the seal of official ap-
proval and the imprimatur of a State
publishing house, (ofns.)


j&SSB
n
.
!
WmmM
mi
im
Ci :i'-' :
mm
->: i
S
Hi
PP :
■1
•- *
Pi
■: :•:
ip:
1
stmssi
'.t
' ••" ' '" t
~~—Bp
1
M
, ;??
1
II
■"■
. :,PP;
mssm
.. .......
only the welcome is warm!
When the temperature is high, the cool
haven of an air-conditioned building
says “welcome” better than a thousand
handshakes. That is probably why,
when we think of air-conditioning, we
remember this particular aspect only
—and forget the other important func-
tions that have made it so desirable.
Precision industries look to air-con-
ditioning for clean, purified air.
Food industries use it for cleanliness;
stores as a means of keeping food fresh
and appetising. Club and theatre
managements look to it to make paint
and decorations last longer. There are
medical aspects, scientific uses. In all
these applications the name Email
assumes compelling significance be-
cause it is the only Australian company
providing a comprehensive air-con-
ditioning, air-handling and air-cleaning
service.
Industrial and domestic air-condition-
ing is a major activity of the Email
group. Its products come under many
brand names but share the standards
of skill and production quality that
are common to all Email branches of
endeavour. When you next feel the
comfort of air-conditioning the odds
are that you will be close in touch with
yet another of the many facets that
are Email!
Email Limited
ELECTRICAL & INDUSTRIAL
MANUFACTURING GROUP


CHEVRON HILTON
Sydney’s focal point for all
IMPORTANT FUNCTIONS
Whether it’s a banquet, dinner
party, grand ball, wedding break-
fast, convention, sales meeting or
cocktail party, enjoy the luxury and
service of Sydney’s most experi-
enced hotel.
Before making arrangements for
your social or business function,
contact the banquet Manager,
Phone: 35-0433 or write direct to
$ CHEVRON HILTON
Macleay St., Pott's Point, Sydney.
tafccJc
PIPE OR
CIGARETTE
IN 3 BLENDS-
5'9
2 Oz.
MILD * NUT SWEET • RUM
These distinguished, much sought
after blends are now sold by tobac-
conists. If not available write to
the blenders:
THE TABAK COMPANY
50 Miller St., Nth. Sydney. 92 8489
MOTORING
Worn Tyres Can
Be Killers
The importance of good treads, correct inflation
By BOADICEA
The experienced racing driver is very
mindful of the hazards of his
sport, and he knows that extreme
caution in preparing his car gives him a
better chance of living to be an old
driver. There is a saying in motor racing
that “there are old drivers and bold
drivers, but very few are old bold
drivers.”
The everyday driver can learn a les-
son from the experienced racing driver’s
concern about tyres. It is very compara-
tive, for, while the racer averages speeds
of well over 100 mph, he has the safety
factor given him by the makers of the
special racing tyres he uses. In contrast,
the family motorist averages 50 mph on
ordinary tyres which are capable of
higher speeds. But, if the iacer worries
about his tyres, so should the family
motorist, for his neck and those of his
family ride upon those very tyres which
come trim and new with the new car.
How often have you seen a wobbly
wheel on a new car? It happens all too
frequently, and it is, almost always, not
a buckled wheel but an incorrectly
seated tyre. The careless motorist can
be spotted easily its odds on he has
a valve cap or two missing. These little
caps aren't superfluous; they keep out
dust and dirt which can prevent the
valve sealing properly, apart from being
a secondary air seal.
Maintenance of the correct tyre pres-
sures is a must for good motoring. A
weekly check should be made and any
marked change noted. The car’s hand-
book should be consulted for the recom-
mended tyre pressures, which are al-
ways measured cold. These pressures
are given for normal tyres and normal
highway speeds, and if the owner insists
on running low pressures he can expect
excessive flexing of the tyre walls, which
creates excessive temperature. This leads
to greater risk of failure and increased
wear.
Similarly a driver who cruises at high
speeds should increase his tyre pressures.
Normal pressures are recommended for
sustained speeds of 80 mph and another
four to six pounds should be added for
“90 plus” motoring.
I make a point of examining my tyres
on a hoist regularly. This enables me to
examine the inside walls for any stone
cuts or cord failures. My tyres are
changed over, criss-cross fashion, at least
every 2000 miles for better mileage,
and by examining the front tyres it is
possible to “read” the front suspension
and see whether there is any misalign-
ment. It is surprising how many cars are
tolerated by their drivers with the front
end “out,” and how delighted the same
drivers are when it is put right and they
discover the joy of handling a properly
“set up” car.
The modern tyre is probably the most
abused component on a car. It is gener-
ally overloaded at holiday time, under-
inflated, scrubbed against kerbs by poor
parkers. In this country it has to with-
stand great temperatures and shocking
roads. It is constantly under stress, and
often the only attention it receives is
an occasional kick the careless
owner’s way of checking it for proper
inflation.
The spare wheel is luckier; it is al-
lowed to deflate gradually until one day
it is hurriedly snatched from its cradle,
bolted on to the wheel and set to work
in its under-inflated, unready condition.
It never quite recovers from this treat-
ment.
T am always worried by the neglect of
their tyres by many owners. Perhaps
it is because I am wed aware of the
importance of tyre care, and what can
happen in the event of a high-speed
blowout. Too many people economise
on tyres, run them so short of tread
that they are liable for prosecution if
a vigilant policeman happens along. I
have seen fast; expensive cars with the
poorest type of retreads fitted, and yet
the driver boasts of cruising at over
80 mph with his beloved family on
board.
When we get on motorways this tyre
problem will become acute, and no
mercy should be shown the driver caught
with badly worn tyres. I would advocate
a tyre check at the toll gates of any
motorway. When a car skids across the
dividing strip and crashes headlong into
another the records seldom show the real
cause of the accident. Speed is blamed
as the killer, but more often than not
the real killer is the bald tyre which
loses adhesion on a long, wet curve.
Perhaps if people were told that bad
driving costs them real money they
would be more attentive. Rough use of
the steering wheel, the throttle and the
brake can actually halve tyre mileage,
and smooth tyres have less than half
the adhesion of good tyres on a wet
bitumen road. The racing driver has
three main features he usually checks
himself the steering, the braking and
the tyres; for failure in any of these
can take his life.


letters
to the
editor
“WARLORDS" IN INDONESIA
Sir,
Mr Geoffrey Fairbairn has taken up
my challenge to name a single military
commander in Indonesia who can reason-
ably be described as a “semi-independent
warlord”, but with very puzzling results
(21/3/64). By my book a warlord is
one who, by virtue of his control of an
army, exercises an authority indepen-
dent of, and in opposition to, that of a
central government. None of Mr Fair-
bairn’s three candidates fits this defini-
tion, even with the qualification “semi”.
In what way has Adjie defied his Chief
of Staff? Or Suharjo? Jusuf, perhaps,
comes closest- to the degree of independ-
ence required. He has been slow, and
at times apparently reluctant, to execute
the task for which he was appointed of
dealing with the Islamic rebel leader
Kahar Muzakar. But Mr Fairbairn
seems completely unaware that Jusuf is
in process of being cut down to size.
Within Makassar he is now outranked
by Java-born Brigadier-General U Ruk-
man, Deputy Chief of Staff for Eastern
Indonesia. Jusuf, in short, is no excep-
tion to the general rule which has
applied since 1958 that the central
government is able to remove regional
commanders whenever it feels it
necessary to do so.
Of course, I did not suggest that
military command in Indonesia is equiva-
lent to that obtaining in Australia, and
Mr Fairbairn knows me well enough to
be aware of that. What I did—and
still do suggest is that none of Mr
Fairbairn’s candidates remotely resem-
bles Chan Tso-lin, or Feng Yu-hsiang
or Wu P’ei-fu in China after the fall
of Yuan Shih-k'ai, or, for that matter,
Husein, Simbolon or Sumual in Indo-
nesia a few years ago. Mr Fairbairn
gives away the character of his verbal
gymnastics when he describes Soekarno
as a warlord! This is hardly “delight-
ful accuracy” in the use of terms.
Finally, I would reject Mr Fairbairn’s
appeasement label. I approve of our
commitments to Malaysia, and we may
in due course be called on to honor
these. In the meantime the onus rests
on him to indicate more clearly what
changes he would recommend in our
present policy. Australian troops in Sara-
wak immediately? Australian bombs on
Djakarta? A trade boycott? Or what?
J. D. LEGGE
Monash University,
Clayton (Vic.).
SPANIARDS IN WA
Sir,
Your Perth correspondent responsible
for the item “No Spaniards in the West”
(29/2/64) was so wide of fact that if
he had set out to misrepresent immigra-
tion into Western Australia he could not
have done better. The Spanish migrants
who landed here 18 months ago, and
whom his article describes as skilled,
were wholly unskilled. Nor were they
sought by WA in its campaign at that
time to import European tradesmen,
but were dumped unexpectedly by the
Commonwealth, to the State’s embarrass-
ment. The State Government had a
clear picture from industry of how many
men were needed and in what cate-
gories.
With the market for laborers better
supplied than it was for tradesmen,
although good laborers were wanted too,
the problems of immediately employing
a sudden intake who could not do
industrial work and spoke hardly a word
of English between them were naturally
difficult. We have no foremen who
can supervise in Spanish.
ANOTHER PERTH CORRESPONDENT
(Name and address supplied.)
Perth (WA).
THE BRIGALOW SCHEME
Sir,
J. Daly (21/3/64) attempts to “knock”
the Central Queensland brigalow
development scheme and makes an un-
justified sneer at “bureaucrats doing
always the wrong thing”. His facts are
all wrong. The scheme covers six mil-
lion acres not two million and
will accommodate 500 prosperous
farmer-graziers on more than adequate
freehold living areas. Present develop-
ment is confined to an aggregation of
4) million acres. As clearing, burning-
off and aerial seeding to pastures is
completed, blocks are opened for selec-
tion by approved applicants on ballot. In
the first 12 months of operation of the
joint Commonwealth-State scheme, 52
living areas have been allotted.
On a conservative estimate, one pros-
perous primary producer provides work
for five other persons a good reason
in itself for pressing on with closer set-
tlement. Present beef herd numbers are
124,900. Estimated carrying capacity
to initial partial development is 333,851.
With cultivation of fodder crops, the
capacity of the two areas would be
495,230 an increase of about 395
I>er cent! When subdivided, the two
areas mentioned will provide 115 re-
tention areas for existing landholders
and 163 new units, a total of 278. After
this programme has been completed,
operations will be projected into Area 3.
Bureaucrats? I doubt whether Mr
Daly’s sneer could apply to men like the
late Sir William Payne, an acknow-
ledged authority on land development,
or to Dr P. J. Skerman who has made
a close study of the brigalow lands for
many years. Sir William Payne estab-
lished that the brigalow country could
become the richest producing land the
State possesses; Dr Skerman has estab-
lished that, despite certain limitations,
the brigalow belt without doubt offers
the greatest potential for development
for both cropping and pastures of any
land yet to be opened up for settlement
in Queensland.
CLEM LACK
Brisbane ( Qld ).
“THE REPRESENTATIVE”
Sir,
The Bulletin of March 28 scores
again with the excellent review of Hoch-
huth's play by Mr Isi Leibler. I am, or
rather was. one of those Catholics who
felt “that the Pope should have spoken
out” against the unforgivable murders
of the Jewish people. We should also
note two other things:
(1) That Cardinal Pacelli (later Pope
Pius XII) had done quite a deal, uncon-
sciously, to cause World War II by (e.g.)
helping to put Hitler into power (the
von Papen Concordat); that eminent men
like the Polish Foreign Minister, Colonel
Beck, said: “All too late do I realise
that we pursued a foreign policy for the
Vatican’s own ends. We ought not to
have supported Hitler": that “good
Catholics” embarked upon a campaign
against the legally constituted govern-
ment of Spain in 1936; and last, but by
no means least, statements made by
numerous cardinals before the war
(two statements chosen at random are -
by Cardinal Innitzer. “Hitler’s struggles
correspond to the voice of God”, and
Cardinal Falhauber, “Hitler invites
people to be subordinate to the general
interest. We declare ourselves partisans
of this doctrine.”
(2) When the Germans reached
Croatia (largely Catholic), a “holy war”
“was started against heretics. Several
hundred thousand Jews, Moslems, Serbs
and Protestants were slaughtered.” There
were many other instances of murdering
non-Gatholics, particularly in Yugoslavia.
The significant feature is that the Pope
could easily have prevented this, but
did not even try.
M. R. JOHNS
Middle Park (Vic.).
“THE DOMINION"
Sir,
Being well known in New Zealand
for the past 30 years as your business
representative, also as an occasional
contributor, I wish to dissociate my-
self from the comments made by our
Auckland correspondent on the literary
content and general popularity of the
Wellington “Dominion’’ (21/3/64). I


“You’ll
never export
diamonds
to
Kimberley... but
there are literally thousands of
products which can be success-
fully marketed in prosperous
South Africa, as many Aus-
tralian companies have already
found to their profit.
See for yourself on your next
overseas trip it’s just over-
night between Australia and
South Africa, and SAA’s big
Boeing Jets connect Johannes-
burg with U.K./Europe.
The extra cost of going this
way is negligible,* and if you’ve
a few days to spare,
the sightseeing is ter-
rific. Ask your travel
agent. 99
k
m
m
%
H
•Flying from Australia to
Europe via South Africa
costs from £15.10.0 extra,
depending on your departure
point. Three services fort-
nightly, operated by SAA
in association with Qantas.
:A
Tba "Southern Hemisphere” route,Spgiateif by SAA in association with Qantas, BOAC and CAA
EUROPE SOUTH Jlllk AFRICA AUSTRALIA
@
disagree most emphatically with his
criticisms. As a journalist of over 50
years’ experience, I consider that “The
Dominion” is one of the finest papers
in NZ. As for the allegation of declining
advertising revenue, our Auckland cor-
respondent is evidently unaware of the
fact that the paper recently substantially
increased its dividend to shareholders.
Incidentally, I am not a shareholder.
PAT LAWLOR
Wellington (iVZ).
“ALICE IN WAGE LAND”
Sir,
With the prospect of increased wages
following the current basic wages claim,
there are fears of inflation and raised
prices. A significant paragraph appears
in “Alice in Wage Land” (21/3/64):
“. . . neither the importing industries nor
local industries facing import competi-
tion would be able to pass the increase
on whatever its size.”
This points to the use of tariff reduc-
tion as a useful tool in achieving price
stability, inflation control, and mainten-
ance of the employees’ share of in-
creased prosperity.
K. N. GRIBB
Canterbury (Vic.).
BEATLEMANIA
Sir,
May I congratulate Mr Paul Johnson
for his stringent comments on “Beatle-
mania” (21/3/64). One read the article
with a growing sense of surprise that
here at least was an intellectual who
had not capitulated to the cretinous
levels reached by pop entertainment. The
attack upon intellectual decency has
come from the intellectuals themselves,
and has often had the effect of under-
mining all standards of aesthetic as well
as political judgment.
May one hope that Mr Johnson’s
article may cause a few ripples in that
pool of senile infantilism which seems
to have settled over so many contem-
porary minds.
MAURICE MEARS
Herberton (Qld).
THE DFRB SCHEME
Sir,
May I add the views of not only
myself, but also those of many other
“long-term” members, on DFRB. I am
a warrant officer in the RAAF and have
had over 27 years’ service. I am pay-
ing 15/10 per week in DFRB contri-
butions and if I leave the service at the
age of 52 I (or my widow) will be
entitled to a pension which has a capital
value of about £20,000. Like every
other contributor to DFRB, my first
four years’ pension will return to me
more than i paid into the scheme, and
from then on my pension (almost £l9
per week) will be for “free”.
I wish to take issue with the husband
of “My Husband’s Advocate” (28/3/64).
I attended the talks on DFRB given by
a senior RAAF officer and I have never
heard such a clear exposition of such a
complex subject. This officer spoke for
half an hour and then held an open
forum for two and a half hours with


<O4
siew
w m w.J.
1 | 'vji ;i v§
; i
I h i
i % v
I fc-5.4 1 '■■■§
fpyy..
n * v,, *. I "f t ii
: 1 ► • <%. p*vl: i
1 1
K
I
. ‘ *sX>fr.w
. wfcfafec . ■'X
111
? •< v "-v.j
2 X .• viJ
\m
w.m
yy%
K. i
-
**
■- - •
**'yy.»oi
l€& CU
MENZIES
SYDNEY
AUSTRALIA’S NEWEST FINEST HOTEL
Fully air-conditioned rooms and suites . . .
spacious restaurants, lounges, cocktail bars . ..
arcades of over 200 shops . . . Australia’s
largest hotel underground car park, for 450
cars, plus Menzies 24-hour room service.
Truly, Menzies Sydney is a new world of
sophistication and comfort.
FOR INSTANT TELETYPE RESER-
VATIONS just ring the FEDERAL
HOTEL nearest you:
Brisbane: Lennons, 32 0131; Toowoomba:
Lennons, 2 2433. Melbourne: Menzies,
601581; Savoy Plaza, 62 4141; Hotel Federal,
62 3721. Sydney: Hampton Court, 31 7081;
New Menzies, 2 0232. Hobart: Wrest Point
Riviera, 5 1021. Or book through any travel
agent.
MENZIES SYDNEY
Comfort beckons you in rooms or
suites tastefully furnished, supremely
comfortable. Dial your own individ-
ually-controlled temperature... dial
piped music or news.
Newest addition to
i
Across the Nation
14 Carrington Street. Cable Address: Menzotel, Sydney. Telex No. 20-443
8393


Mr. Hiller and his craft
The Importance of a Name. It’s important to realise that there
is such a person as Mr. Ernest Hiller the label that goes on to
his suits is not a “brand name” but his own personal signature.
It’s a guarantee that the suit has been tailored to Mr. Hiller’s
demanding standards (hand detailed where only hand work
will do); that the materials are of a superb quality.
The international styling of an Ernest Hiller suit is
undisputed as is the value-for-money that goes
every suit that carries his name. From £25.19.6.
INTERNATIONALLY STYLED SUITS, SPORTCOATS AND TROUSERS
AT BETTER STORES IN THE CITY, SUBURBS AND COUNTRY
has better balance
and flavour
than almost any whisky
you have tasted .
Try it!
350 personnel. His answers were
frank, honest and convincing on all
matters raised and the whole basis of
the DFRB Acts was laid bare for those
who could or wanted to think. Any
existing anomalies, which I believe to
be minor, were discussed in full, and I
assume will be properly presented to
the appropriate authority.
SERVICEMAN
(Name and address supplied.)
Melbourne (Vic.).
THE RIDDLE OF DALLAS
Sir,
The Bulletin is to be commended
for publishing the article (21/3/64) on
“The Dreadful Riddle of Dallas”. This
revealing and provocative examination
of President Kennedy’s assassination,
with all the confused and conflicting
evidence pertaining to it, cannot fail but
to astonish and disturb the disinterested
observer. It impels one to ask a number
of pertinent questions:
If the evidence presented against
Oswald was so inconclusive, containing
so many discrepancies, why then were
the authorities so determined to get his
conviction? Was the murder of Oswald
simply the impassioned act of an un-
balanced individual, or are there grounds
to suspect complicity? Presuming such
.a possibility, and therefore Oswald’s
hypothetical innocence, who then, what
individual or forces, was responsible?
How current are the facts as represented
in the Brienberg article in public circula-
tion in the United States? And what is
the attitude of the present Acting Presi-
dent as well as the American public
in general?
Until at least some of the above
questions are satisfactorily answered the
American Administration must be held
suspect on this issue, and the accredited
position of the United States as the
exemplar of freedom and justice is to be
seriously questioned.
Once again The Bulletin has done
a valuable service to its readers by pre-
senting the aforementioned article. It
is hoped that there will be forthcoming
further discussion on this disturbing and
confounding subject.
R. MELVILLE
Fairfield (Vic.).
FIRST TV BROADCASTS
Sir,
The article on Brisbane’s Wickham
Terrace (15/2/64) mentioned that the
first actual television transmissions in
Australia were broadcast from the tower
of the old mill (now known as the Ob-
servatory) in 1935, when an experimental
TV service was operated by Dr Val
McDonald and Thomas M. B. Elliott.
May I point out that it was Dr Val
McDowall, not McDonald, who shared
in this distinction.
BARBARA K. McDOUGALL
Dirranbandi ( Qld ).


Which is the copy?
?v
m.
•J
<SC
■vy
h r&jy
\
/gif'/
\\V
or
4
'v
0m
xr
i
Vi!
tr
rx.
iXv:
*v
X 4 *!s 1
v4.;fc
>S§
sr
V
Jfh
2*
Only the Rank Xerox 914 knows (and Sam)
It is difficult to tell the Rank Xerox
914 copy from the original because
the Rank Xerox 914 Office Copier
is unique. It copies on ordinary
bond paper. In fact, the Rank
Xerox 914 knows how to do a lot
of things other copiers can’t do.
No costly, sensitized paper to buy.
No messy, wet chemicals. The
Rank Xerox 914 process is dry.
49 Market Street, SYDNEY 2 0663
83 King Street, NEWCASTLE . . . B 1994
164 Melbourne St., STH. BRISBANE 4 3836
Copies anything—pencil, ballpoint,
pen, everything. Even pages in
bound volumes. Every copy per-
fect and permanent. Low-cost
copies. Never any waste with the
revolutionary Rank Xerox 914.
Fast, too. Seven copies a minute—
automatically. And easy! Well,
you know how easy if you’ve seen
Sam demonstrate on TV. You just
dial the number of copies you want
—and push the button. No adjust-
ments ever.
No capital outlay. You borrow our
RANK
mm
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
316 Queen Street, MELBOURNE 67 6185
1095 Hay Street, PERTH 21 4097
163-7 Halifax Street, ADELAIDE 8 3125
Rank Xerox 914 and pay only for
the copies you make. So why not
accept this invitation to see the
Rank Xerox 914 in action? We
promise you one of the most profit-
able half hours you have spent for
a long time.
YOU ARE INVITED
TO A SPECIAL DEMONSTRATION OF THE
UNIQUE RANK XEROX 914 OFFICE COPIER.
PLEASE TELEPHONE YOUR NEAREST RANK
XEROX OFFICE FOR DETAILS


Around Melbourne
FROM AN UNKNOWN SAINT TO MOTHER'S MILK
11/1 ay the Heavens turn me into a
pillar of salt for such heresy
but I have always felt this: The only
possible excuse for Australian Rules
football is the fact that it helps to
keep cricket alive during the summer.
Now that I have confessed my true
feelings I shall try to tell the story.
Here in the heady month of April,
when the newspapers are offering
patterns for “knit-yourself” football
guernseys and devoting acres of space
to superb recruits who have been
found in the country, all seven feet
tall, a crisis has arisen.
The “Sun News-Pictorial” was the
first to reveal that the St Kilda Foot-
ball Club, for the season of 1965,
would move from its traditional head-
quarters at the St Kilda Cricket
Ground out to Moorabbin. How can
one explain the awful importance of
this? There has been nothing like
it since Brooklyn suffered its awful
traumatic shock when the beloved
Dodgers moved out to Los Angeles
in 1957. The idea is that St Kilda
will take over the Moorabbin foot-
ball ground, be known in future as
St Kilda-Moorabbin, and it might
even merge with the Moorabbin
Association team. What’s behind all
this? St Kilda wants to manage its
own ground, to be free of paying
high rents to the St Kilda Cricket
Club and to be out there in the midst
of the new high-population areas.
The contrast between the two
suburbs is most interesting. Moorab-
bin is young, with a marvellous re-
productive rate in babies, and it is
ambitious. It wants Melbourne’s
highest accolade, the honor of pos-
sessing a first-class league team. When
we were cadets we were told to
think of our typical reader as an
inhabitant of Moorabbin. He lived
in a triple-fronted cream brick veneer,
he had two kids and he was paying
off his TV set and his Holden. It
is flat, sandy, and the post-war sub-
division Eldorado of the real-estate
men.
Why, its very name throbs with
fertility. Moorabbin is an aboriginal
word which means “mother’s milk”.
It has a population of 102.000, com-
pared with 54,000 for St Kilda, and
13,000 acres compared with a mere
2000.
St Kilda, on the other hand, is the
jaded, once fashionable seaside resort
of the 1860 s. It has a polyglot Kings
Cross-Blackpool atmosphere. It has
some good restaurants, good pubs
and a strip joint which is now being
forced to cover up with the now
somewhat accurate title “Forbidden
City”. It has a more aged, sophisti-
cated appearance, quite unlike the
youthful wholesomeness of Moorab-
bin. What’s more, the name St Kilda
is not entirely honest. I have searched
through every tome in our local
library for St Kilda’s credentials as
a saint and there are none.
Then, St Kilda supporters in recent
years have developed a particular
passion of their own. For example,
there are more souvenirs available for
St Kilda supporters than any other
club. You can get St Kilda earrings
for the ladies and even St Kilda
coffee tables and lampshades for the
living-room.
\ nd not all St Kilda supporters are
enthusiastic over the move. .Mr
Wells Eicke, a life member and an old
player with 267 games behind him,
has resigned from the committee in
protest. He believes the whole thing
is “a grave mistake”.
There are fans who see this as the
end of the grand old name of St Kilda.
St Kilda-Moorabbin, they say, is an
awful mouthful and inevitably it will
become known as Moorabbin. One
letter writer to the “Sun” suggested
why not call the club St Moorabbin.
But here we run into the same prob-
lem. If there is no evidence of the
canonisation of Mr Kilda, Miss Kilda
or whatever, there is no excuse for
the canonisation of Mother’s Milk.
But there are many problems in
this. How about the Moorabbin
Football Club? You might say that
the Victorian Football Association is
the poor relative in Victorian foot-
ball, but Moorabbin has won three
VFA premierships and are premiers
now, whereas St Kilda has never won
a VFL flag. Then you have to con-
sider the dignity of the thing. The
VFA was born in 1877. and the VFL
didn’t exist until 1897, when eight
Association clubs, including St Kilda,
broke away to form it.
So, naturally, the VFA is mortally
offended by all this. Moorabbin, even
by the time this appears in print,
may be expelled from the VFA and
unable to play in competition this
year. Its future as a club is uncer-
tain. The Moorabbin City Council
plans to spend £lOO,OOO on its ground
to make a comfy home for St Kilda,
and there is a suggestion another
ground will be found for the VFA
team, if it still exists.
But I fear the St Kilda move is
only the start. With great inhumanity,
football everywhere is turning on
cricket. Only two football clubs,
Collingwood and Geelong, control
their own grounds, four are controlled
by cricket clubs, and the rest by local
councils. So the town is wretched
with rumors. There is talk that
Hawthorn will go out to Nunawading,
Richmond to the new VFL oval at
Waverley, North Melbourne to
Broadmeadows, Footscray to Brook-
lyn and Fitzroy to Preston.
Meanwhile soccer is waiting in the
wings. There is already the juicy
prospect of the St Kilda ground.
This is Melbourne’s second-best
ground and among the first half
dozen in Australia. Soccer at the
moment is bereft of good grounds,
even to the extent that it has to use
the Olympic ground on Sundays. And
there, under our very Victorian Vic-
torian law, patrons gain entry “by
donation”.
Now their chances of gaining this
marvellous St Kilda ground are really
first class. What if they also pick up
other inner suburban grounds like
Hawthorn, Richmond, North Mel-
bourne and Fitzroy? They will have
most of the classic VFL grounds.
Then soccer, which was always a
threat to the dear old game, will
actually be on the rampage.
BATMAN


REVIEWS
FILMS
The Ones We See Too Late
Time lag that saps interest
By BEVERLEY TIVEY
The Savage Innocents. Director,
Nicholas Ray. Victory. Sydney.
Sparrows Can’t Sing. Director, Joan
Littlewood. Embassy Theatre. Syd-
ney.
Love With The Proper Stranger.
Director, Robert Mulligan. Prince
Edward Theatre. Sydney.
fFHis film, finally shown here over three
years after its production, once
again shows up the peculiarity of the
distribution of films in Australia.
Certainly a great many films arrive on
our screens after only a reasonable time
lapse; a few (like the recent “Seven
Days In May”) are showing here almost
before release in their country of origin,
or are rushed here (like “The VIPs”) in
order to cash-in on the stars’ personal
publicity. But many are held up, for
various reasons, until any public interest
in them has been dissipated.
Criticism is usually met by the dis-
tributors’ explanation “we’re in this
business to make a living” with the
implication that they as practical
businessmen can’t afford the wool-
gathering idealism indulged in by mere
enthusiasts for the cinema. But surely
it’s sound business practice, if you’re
going to show a film at all, to do so as
soon as possible, w'hile its name may
still mean something?
“Baby Doll” suffered badly here for
this reason. Public interest was high
after reports of the controversy it had
aroused in the USA, but the film was
held up for months. When it finally
appeared it had missed the tide and ran
only for an ill-attended couple of weeks.
Financial arguments between overseas
and local distributors account for a good
deal of the hold-up of films. Renewal of
contract is apparently always accom-
panied by lengthy haggling and often a
long stand-off.
Local distributors, it seems, also often
hold up the release of a film about whose
box-office value they are doubtful. This
again seems (to the non-businessman)
rather unbusinesslike. If you fear you’ve
been stuck with a turkey, why not unload
it as soon as possible? Also, since box-
office reaction is notoriously difficult to
gauge, it might be worthwhile to take a
risk now and again, and even to give
the poor old public credit for an
occasional flash of taste.
“The Man With The Green Carna-
tion”, a print of which arrived here in
1960, was not shown here until late
1962. Though this was partly due to
a confused financial situation involving
its English producers, it was further
delayed because the Australian dis-
tributors (basing their decision on the
failure of the Robert Morley film “Oscar
Wilde”) concluded that the public would
not accept a story about homosexuality.
Finally “The Man With The Green Car-
nation” was put into the Embassy, which
had a short period of vacant time before
the opening of “The Longest Day”. The
film was immediately successful, and
was later transferred to the Savoy for
a season of 12 weeks.
Too often films, the subject matter or
treatment of which appears controversial
or arty, are held up or shunted off to an
obscure and unsuitable theatre for a
short run (often as a supporting feature)
and are then never seen again. Adver-
tising (what little is used) is frequently
misleading; sometimes, as with “The
Great Man”, the film is so badly cut as
to be incomprehensible. How many
filmgoers must have missed movies like
“Angel Baby”, “Summer And Smoke”,
“A Cold Wind In August” or “A
Thunder Of Drums” all films of dis-
tinction and originality—simply because
they came and went so quietly and with
such rapidity.
“The Savage Innocents” is a classic
example of this practice. A prestige pro-
duction at the time of its making, it is
shown here years later and at a theatre
which specialises mainly in films like
“Not Tonite, Henry” and “Peeping
Tom”.
In view of my plea for prompt and
effective film distribution which still
remains perfectly valid, incidentally
it’s rather annoying that “The Savage
Innocents” turns out to be a bit of a
flop! Based on Hans Ruesch’s fascinating
stories of Eskimo life, it makes a sad
contrast with Robert Flaherty’s silent
“Nanook Of The North”.
With little money and primitive
technical equipment, Flaherty made a
film which genuinely deserves to be
called epic. He brought respect and
understanding to his treatment of the
life of a tough, self-sufficient people.
Nicholas Ray treats them with amused
condescension, stressing their quaintness
rather than their tenacity and endurance.
The whole film is glossily unreal, with
its plump, husky dogs, spanking clean
igloos and the expertly-treated furs of
the Eskimos’ clothing. Though most of
the women wear baggy fur trousers,
Yoko Tani as the heroine affects a tight,
well-tailored pair of leather pants, like
an Arctic Honor Blackman.
Even Aldo Tonti’s color photography,
attractive though it is, romanticises the
subject, making the Arctic pretty rather
than awe-inspiring, A patronising com-
mentary and a syrup musical score rely-
ing heavily on an unseen choir take away
any lingering shreds of reality.
All the same, poor as the film is, we
should have seen it long ago, if at all.
It hasn’t improved with keeping, in spite
of all that ice.
Qtage director Joan Littlewood is high
priestess of the new cult of the
English stage, in which it is far less
chic to have a succes fou in the West
End than a succes d’estime in a remote
suburb. Now with “Sparrows Cant
Sing,” an adaptation of one of her stage
productions, Miss Littlewood makes a
rather tentative debut as a film director.
It’s a lively piece, but not a very stimula-
ting contribution to the art or craft of
the cinema.
The plot is tenuous: a hell-raising
merchant seaman returns to his London
home agog for a reunion with his wife.
His family and friends, with vivid
memories of his quick temper, try to
conceal from him the fact that she is
living with a bus-driver. But at last
there is a showdown and the girl returns
to her husband—at least for the duration
of his shore leave.
The basic situation is merely an
excuse for the director and playwright
to show the teeming, lusty life of Lon-
don’s back streets. Anyway that’s the
idea; but when you come right down to
it, aside from “frank” references to
backsides, privies and copulation in th £
park, these are just the comic, g° oli '
hearted, Dickens-and-water Cockney 5


we’ve been meeting for years in English
drama and literature.
However talented Joan Littlewood
may be as a stage director, she shows
little real feeling for the film medium.
Much of the film is stagey—groupings
are obviously designed for the stage, or
at best for a screen of no more than
23 inches —but occasionally Miss Little-
wood, carried away by the mobility of
the new medium, moves her camera and
cuts her film till the spectator is posi-
tively dizzy.
A warm and charming performance
by Natalie Wood distinguishes “Love
With the Proper Stranger,” a patchy
film that hovers uneasily between realism
and romanticism.
Natalie Wood plays a nice girl whose
one brief fall from virtue results in
pregnancy (girls in the movies are
always so unlucky). She seeks out the
young musician responsible and though
he hardly remembers her he is ready
to find an abortionist and assist her
financially (girls in the movies are always
so lucky).
Of course she doesn’t have the
abortion (girls in the movies never do,
except for an occasional minor character
who invariably dies of it).
At last the reluctant young man
breaks down and admits that he really
loves her, and all ends happily and
respectably with wedding bells.
THEATRE
Pretty Baby
A Very Special Baby. Robert Alan
Aurthur. Arts Theatre. Melbourne.
Love Rides The Rails. Union Theatre
Repertory Company. Russell Street
Theatre. Melbourne.
Very Special Baby” is a serious
and impressive example of Ameri-
can realism. Not quite triumphant over
its materials, not quite in the front rank
of modern works, it is, nevertheless, a
good deal subtler and more skilful than
any of the recent Australian attempts at
the same sort of thing. Joy Mudge, of
the Arts Theatre, is to be commended
for her discovery of the play, and for
the care and sensitivity of her production
of it.
The title character is Joey Casale,
once “a very special baby” because his
mother died at his birth, but now, at
34, a disturbing element in the other-
wise well-regulated life of his father,
Casale has accomplished much in
his 60-odd years: he has amassed a
fortune, seen two of his sons rise to
eminence in their professions, and built,
a shrine to his “sainted” wife, a
splendid New York house, which now
serves as a home for Joey and his sister,
Anna. But Joey, who has accomplished
little, is unwilling to accept the role of
family failure and golf partner, and
looks to his father for help in a busi-
ness enterprise. The resulting crisis is
the central action of the play.
In a curious way, the play convinces
us very powerfully of the reality of its
characters and of their histories, with-
out ever quite convincing us of the
reality of their current preoccupations.
Mr Aurthur writes splendid dialogue,
capable of moving easily from relaxed
intimacy to strong and desperate emotion,
but his situations, especially in the second
half of the play, are rather thin and
contrived.
Despite these weaknesses, this is a
play to see. It pays the theatregoer the
rare compliment of assuming that he is
capable of intelligent interest in matters
of humane concern. This production
is distinguished by an excellent per-
formance by Blaise Antony as Joey, by
a very good attempt at Mr Casale by
Kevin Colebrook, and by generally
adequate acting from the other players.
Miss Mudge’s lighting plot is very
effective, and largely overcomes the dis-
advantage of the small stage.
It is difficult to know what to write
about “Love Rides The Rails”, the latest
offering of the Union Theatre Repertory
Company. This is a kind of pantomime
for chronological adults, based upon an
“old-time American melodrama”. The
story provides an excuse for a number
of revue-style acts, but there is little of
the variety and none of the topicality
or wit of genuine revue. Indeed this
seems to be the idea—to poke fun only
at the patently absurd, so that there is
no danger of hurting anyone’s feelings.
Perhaps this is an inevitable develop-
ment in a democratic age. Perhaps this
is why it seemed so fitting for the actors
to be throwing popcorn at the audience
-—no one was ever hurt by popcorn —
or nourished by it, of course.
JAMES MURPHY
TELEVISION
Fallen Eagle
The Spread of the Eagle. Channel 2.
Sydney.
A Season in Hell. Channel 2. Sydney.
HThat producer Peter Dews and much
the same company should follow
their triumphant adaptation of Shake-
speare’s history plays, “An Age of
Kings”, with such a clumsy treatment
of the Roman plays, “The Spread of the
Eagle”, is hardly less than incredible.
In the first episode, “The Hero”, which
comprised the first third of “Coriolanus”,
Dews exhibited none of the flair and the
sense of grandeur that distinguished his
last production, and the actors seemed
completely out of touch with their roles,
the period, and the sentiments of the
play. Robert Hardy, who was a brilliant
Prince Hal and Henry V, and Frank
Pettingell, who gave a beery, robust
portrayal of Falstaff, were in “Corio-
lanus” worse than unconvincing; they
were embarrassing. Hardy, looking far
too corpulent,, minced through the open-
ing scene among the citizens and
apparently thought that to be heroic
was to shout during the battle scenes.
He gave a one-dimensional, mannered
performance, relieved only by remem-
bered tricks and professional recitation.
Pettingell was disastrous; his tribune,
most of the time in tight two-shot with
his colleague, seemed a conscious effort
to burlesque Charles Laughton at his
worst, and few of the others in the cast
displayed much more imagination
Roland Culver as Menenius was singu-
larly pedestrian.
The locally written and produced re-
construction of the Rimbaud-Verlaine
“affair”, “A Season in Hell”, fared
much better. Patricia Hooker’s script
was essentially a duologue with vignettes,
and, although too episodic and uneven
in its construction and development, in-
corporated the visions and images of
the poet into the context of the relation-
ship with considerable success only
occasionally did Rimbaud step out of
the play and declaim.
Henri Safran’s production had style
and atmosphere. He suggested the
deliberately underwritten homosexual
tensions by inference rather than by
presentation, and he evoked the claustro-
phobic relationship by isolating the two
poets in tight two-shots. Rimbaud him-
self was rarely linked with anyone except
Verlaine, and Safran assisted the inten-
sity of Allen Bickford’s performance by
concentrating his cameras on him and
pursuing him in tight close-up.
It was a play that depended on its
central performances and Safran got
those performances. Alistair Duncan
was superb as the weak, emotional
Verlaine, and in his final scenes in gaol
and at his last reunion with Rimbaud,
his desperate, helpless breakdown and
self-deluded groping for salvation, Dun-
can gave a very fine, intuitive perform-
ance. Bickford looked wrong, like a
cross between Oliver Twist and Tom
of the Waterbabies, and his calculated
underplaying, while often electric with
suppressed violence, tended to remain on
one level and also to lose some of the
lines. Although, objectively, his was a
good characterisation, he was too much
of a little horror and not enough of a
genius, and didn’t quite seem the person-
ality to capture and control Verlaine,
a fault as much his as Miss Hooker’s.
WILLIAM DANIELS


ORirriKß
Pilifl
Mmmm
mmi
TIVIAIS
4a
M. mmMMM
p
i WMWM
i
m
vC
: .;X
sif
LARGE
PASS
Ctrl FY
§Lo IL. , -Tm
DECAL
arnazin
i
s
HoW else could you colourfully, permanently trademark a
really small product . . . an irregularly-shaped product such
as the Lorimier ignition contact set shown above? With
Selex Decal transfers there’s nothing to it.
Just as there’s no longer a problem achieving truck-side
uniformity whilst avoiding heavy signwriting costs.'
Transfers (SELEX DECAL transfers) are so often the answer
to so. many problems. Let us go to work on yours.
SELEX DECAL* PTY. LTD..
*THE WORD DECAL IS REGISTERED.
Melbourne —Tel. 61 3211 • Sydney— -Tel. 43 0221 • (Agents all other States)
ART
Loose Ends
Charles Blackman, Arthur Boyd, Law-
rence Daws: Opening Show of Gal-
lery F. Brisbane.
"Perpetually busy Brian Johnstone
used a recent “art holiday” to fur-
ther expand his already thriving business.
Stumps were painted, floors laid, parti-
tions erected and in a short breath of
time the under portion of their home-
cum-gallery became “Gallery F” (up-
stairs already has rooms A-E).
One can only hope that this gallery’s
opening show does not indicate its future
trend. The title, “Recent work by
Charles Blackman, Arthur Boyd, and
Lawrence Daws”, suggested one of the
year’s outstanding shows. Sadly, this
is not the case.
Arthur Boyd’s main contributions are
black and white etchings that stem from
his stage sets for Mr Helpmann’s Covent
Garden production, “Electra”. Although
these wild, frenzied, most provocative
works definitely suggest the psychologi-
cally misconstrued woman, most taken at
purely face value seem rather at a loose
end due to lack of orientation and tonal
variety. “Electra V”, a stark two-
figured composition on a grey back-
ground, is, however, one of the show’s
highlights that need not lean on the Lon-
don ballet for its laurels.
The show’s downfall is Charles Black-
man, even though his hallmark, the re-
strained expression of sentiment and
self-orientated children at play, cause
him to be regarded by many both here
and abroad as one of Australia’s superior
figurative painters. While these ten re-
cent oils are indubitably within Black-
man’s usual vocabulary, they can never
even in the wildest moment be called
anything but small (7" x 9"), exceed-
ingly minor sketches.
Lawrence Daws’ submissions are a
mixed kettle of fish. A few gouaches
are in the same vein as the outstanding
semi-metamorphic abstract landscapes
in his recent Brisbane show. However,
these in no way measure up to the Man-
dalla Series as they lack both the com-
pelling directness and superior technical
handling. The bulk of Daws’ works
are colored drawings in the “pop-artish”
mode. The style, no crime in itself, seems
awkward for Daws as his drawing is
often weak and he attempts to suggest
deeper psychological associations than
his experience in the style ‘permits.
Nevertheless Daws’ sophisticated humor
is more than apparent.
NANCY UNDERHILL


liiisipii
■B
a
k
The Airline with people in mind
Take cocktails. How do you cater for the personal, exacting tastes of cocktail-drinking
passengers, when you have only limited space and storage? Serve a pre-mixed cocktail
out of a bottle which might be too sweet or dry for your taste? Not so with Qantas. They
take everything along and mix your drinks upstairs ... to your own taste and liking. And
so it is with every personal aspect of Qantas service. Friendly, courteous attention. Freshly
prepared food, well served. Anticipation of your needs. V-Jet comfort... and for First-clars
passengers, a la carte menu, meals served on fine bone china, Relaxachair seating, sockettf s
for inflight comfort. Whether you travel First or Economy, near
or far, Qantas have you in mind all the time. See your Travel
Agent or Qantas.
43 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in association with Air India, 8.0.A.C., 5.,4.,4. and TEAL.
Q 15.107.24


RED PAGE
American Tragedies
The subtle art of Katherine Anne Porter
By LEONIE KRAMER
Collected Short Stories. Katherine
Anne Porter. Cape. 435. 6d.
Tn this volume are brought together
three groups of stories, the earliest
now over thirty years old. These are
“Flowering Judas” (1930), the three short
novels under the title of the best of them
“Pale Horse, Pale Rider” (1939) and
“The Leaning Tower” (1944). Miss
Porter’s art is subtle, delicate, under-
stated. She is not interested in, and does
not exploit, the dramatic effects upon
which, so many short story writers depend
-—the surprise ending, the sudden twists
of plot, the sharp revelations of char-
acter. She denies her readers the super-
ficial excitements of fiction, but often —
though not always—rewards them with
more substantial pleasures. She traces
relationships, and examines situations,
but does not resolve them. She neither
allows the satisfaction of a happy ending,
nor the equal satisfaction of a violently
tragic one. Only occasionally does she
really encourage speculation about the
“meaning” of her stories. For the most
part she seems to ask no more than that
one should regard the situation she
presents as carefully as she has done in
organising it into words. And this in
itself can be an experience of great
interest and value.
As the range of these stories is wide,
so is their quality variable. Many in the
collection “Flowering Judas” are set in
Mexico, and in reading these I found
myself admiring Miss Porter's skill in
creating atmosphere and suggesting
shades of feeling with the detachment
she herself brings to her writing. I found
this to be even more the case with the
group of sketches in “The Leaning
Tower” under the title “The Old Order”.
These are set in the South. Through the
reminiscences of old people black and
white, Miss Porter recalls something of
the history of slavery, of the effects of
emancipation, and of the tangled fortunes
of masters and servants. There are some
exquisite moments. Miss Porter excels
at catching a character in an attitude or
gesture which persuades one that she has
really presented the whole person. Yet
often these are the slightest glimpses of
a surface whose depths cannot be
sounded, or even guessed at.
There is nothing in these plotless
sketches, precise and skilful though they
be, which takes a firm grip on the mind
or the imagination. There is nothing to
compel one at the end to thought or
meditation, and nothing to make one
look back over the scene that is past. In
the short novel “Old Mortality”, which
has more narrative interest than many of
the other stories, my dissatisfaction is not
so much with the slightness of the
material as with the inconclusiveness of
the plot. The events are only partly
stated; they do not conclude, but merely
end. And whereas one can accept this in
a story where plot has been cut right
back, one cannot help feeling uneasy
when, as in this case, incident seems to
be valued in itself, and yet not allowed to
make a firm statement. In their different
ways these stories and those in “Flower-
ing Judas” are less than satisfying. They
are admirable in craftsmanship, well and
sometimes beautifully written; yet they
seem merely to flirt with their subject,
and to lack the point which drives one
to reread, and in so doing to renew and
not merely to repeat one’s original
experience.
Miss Porter’s outstanding
achievements allow disappointments
to be forgotten. One of these is the short
sketch “Rope” a comic yet chilling
account of the argument between a hus-
band and wife, which starts when the
husband returns from shopping with a
twenty-four-yard coil of rope but with-
out the coffee he has been sent to get.
Its unnerving accuracy of detail in-
evitably reminds one of the Dorothy
Parker of “Here We Are”. The same
basic theme is exploited in “A Day’s
Work” a terrifying portrait of a
nagging, puritanical, holier - than - thou
American-Irish woman and her out-of-
work, day-dreaming, unrealistic husband.
In both these stories Miss Porter shows
her very considerable satirical gift, and
her accurate ear for the inflections as
well as the words of dialogue.
These achievements, though, are over-
shadowed by those of two of the short
novels, “Noon Wine” and “Pale Horse,
Pale Rider”. The first is a parable of
human cruelty and persecution, com-
pelling in its strangeness and its fantasy,
and finally thrilling in its macabre in-
tensity. To read this story is to realise
how far Miss Porter falls short of her
own capabilities in some of the other
sketches. But as this overshadows them,
so in its turn it is eclipsed by “Pale
Horse, Pale Rider”, a phantasmagoric
picture of sickness and death, of war and
disease and the destruction of youth and
hope. It is set in the First World War;
the central figures are a young journalist,
Miranda, and a soldier, Adam, who is
waiting to be sent to the front. Their
odd hours together they spend meeting
hurriedly in coffee shops, dancing in
cheap restaurants, arranging to meet
again. From them emanates a touching,
though doomed, happiness. Around them
is the hatred, the cowardice and the dis-
illusionment of a country at war.
Miranda suddenly falls victim to the
“plague” which is rumored to have been
brought from Germany. A large part of
the story tells of her fight for life; of
Adam’s nursing of her until she can be
moved to hospital. Through her sick and
deranged mind pass the nightmares and
dreams of a life-time.
I can think of few scenes more
poignant than the one in which, only just
alive herself, and desperately weak from
her struggle with death, Miranda learns
that Adam has died of influenza in the
camp hospital. Into her words goes all
the hopelessness of life regained when
the reason for wanting it is lost: “I wish
you were here; I wish you had come
back, what do you think I came back
for, Adam, to be deceived like this?”
Into this short novel Miss Porter has
poured all her gifts of insight and obser-
vation. It is neither bitter nor senti-
mental; and it makes the tight-lipped
protests of Hemingway’s heroes seem
curiously brash, stilted and unreal.
Cult of the Sun
Dolphin Days: A Literary Companion
to Mediterranean Pleasures. Patrick
„ Anderson. Gollancz. 345. 9d.
/Greece has proved an emotional cata-
" lyst to a great many writers, and
for centuries they have journeyed to
Corfu and the lonian Islands, to Athens
or to Olympia to try to capture the
essence of her lure. Perhaps, in the
second half of the twentieth century,
the simplicity and natural beauty of the
Greek islands have assumed an even
greater symbolic value than for the past
pilgrim; certainly a recent adherent,
Patrick Anderson, is no less extravagant
in his reaction.
“Dolphin Days: A Literary Com-
panion to Mediterranean Pleasures” is
a tone poem written, the author advises
us, “on a wave of excitement” after his
second summer in Greece in 1958 and
“rewritten hardly less excitedly during
the next tw 7 o years after further visits”.
The result, he admits, is “full of asso-
ciations and juxtapositions which seemed


WHISKY
MHE
OLD
SCOTCH
VA r I
>
e
" sbM.oCt*Arv* s£n\,<^
leitH
Distillers
se»»
Ft OB-
sup®* 9o "
imna
COMMONWEALTH
UNDO
Collector’s items:
The miniature bottle of Vat 69 Scotch Whisky is a cherished
piece amongst collectors all over the world. Enthusiasts even
refrain from consuming the contents. Equally cherished by
connoisseurs of Scotch Whisky is the world-famous, 26 ounce
bottle of Vat 69. Its contents are invariably consumed . . 4
sometimes with water, sometimes with soda ... always with a
great deal of pleasure. You are invited to become a connoisseur.
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HEK MAJESTY
OUEEN ELIZABETH II
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
WM. SANOERSON & SON LTD.
"VAT 69, FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
More than a Scotch, a Tradition for over ioo years.
SOLVES 96% OF
GARAGE DOOR PROBLEMS
ill
'FLOATING ACTION’ garage door fittings
From Hardware stores everywhere
magical, symbols, serendipities”; it is
“mad” and “sun-drunk”.
Anderson’s unspoken premise is that
travel in itself is nothing; it is only the
use of the mind that illuminates the ex-
perience, giving it meaning and pur-
pose and a reality that far surpasses
the natural images the eye sees. The
author lolls in a deck-chair aboard an
ancient, dirty vessel en route to Corfu,
swims among the lonian Islands, takes
a siesta under a figtree or walks the
streets of Messalonghion, while his
mind, unfettered by limitations either
of time or place, shares a profusion of
images and ideas with a succession of
writers, historians, artists and philoso-
phers.
Structurally, the w'ork is divided into
five books successively devoted to the
cult of the sun; sea symbolism and the
writers who have just used its images;
Byron and the historical parallels for
bisexuality and love of youth; pastoral
Greece wfith its statues, gods and myths;
cities of the w'orld with Athens as the
climax of the mind’s journey. Major
themes interwoven throughout this
framework are the near-mystical love
of sun and sea of writers such as
Stephen Spender, Virginia Woolf, E. M.
Forster, Hart Crane, Andre Gide and
the counterpoised figures of Byron and
Ruskin viewed through the contrasting
nature of their love of Venice and the
sun.
We share the thougnts and teelings of
Philhellenes (the word is obviously
preferred to the more colloquial Gre-
cophils) from many lands and from the
Greek writers themselves, Kavafis,
Seferis and Kazantzakis, but the book
also ranges widely over a succession of
other writers whose work shows them
to be sympatico Chaucer, Milton,
Shakespeare (whose “singular Grecism”
Ruskin noted); the Romans Pliny and
Virgil; Proust and Beaudelaire; Doug-
las, Yeats and Henry James; Rilke,
Goethe and even Nietzsche. A strange
omission from among the Philhellenes
is Lawrence Durrell, though Henry
Miller (the one-time mentor he has far
outstripped) is mentioned.
How successful has Anderson been in
communicating the poetic images that
pass through his “rag-bag of a mind”?
The first two books are the most satis-
factory, though there is a certain
effeteness about the sea-mysticism which
will seem out of tune beside the more
robust feelings of Australians. He
leaves no doubt, however, that there
are few places where man achieves such
communion with nature as in Greece
3nd this is implicit in quotations from
yron, Spender, Joyce, Hopkins and
ot ers. . There is perhaps some cause
0r criticism of his too-positive assess-
ment of some writers such as Ruskin,


What is the NATIONAL
CIVIC COUNCIL saying about
the A.L.P.?
INDONESIA?
the ECONOMY?
DEFENCE?
Well-informed articles on important
subjects like these are featured each
week in NEWSWEEKLY—officiaI journal
of the NATIONAL CIVIC COUNCIL
An annual subscription to Newsweekly
affords you a unique opportunity to gain
access to information not generally avail-
able elsewhere.
You can have Newsweekly posted to
you each week, simply by filling in the
coupon below.
To the Manager, Box 66A, Melbourne,
Victoria.
Please post NEWSWEEKLY to me each
week. I enclose annual subscription of
40/-.
Mr./Mrs./Miss
ADDRESS
STATE
who ha° been treated over-harshlv in the
comparison with Byron.
The breadth of his reading and re-
search makes Anderson’s Greece (and
Venice too) rich and fascinating, but it
is doubtful whether he will succeed in
drawing the same emotional response
from the reader as that which led him
to write the book. It is the love-child
of his infatuation with Greece. He is
the lover trying to find in the experience
of past lovers greater understanding and
enjoyment of the mistress who now
claims him; the result is not sufficiently
objective to bring him any closer than
other waiters have come to explaining
the precise nature of Greece’s lure.
NOEL BUCKLEY
Irony’s Edge
Out of Bounds. John Stallworthy.
OUP. 255.
Refusal to Conform. James Kirkup.
OUP. 41s. 6d.
“f|ur of Bounds” is John Stallworthy’s
second volume of verse. In it he
accomplishes a rare thing among con-
temporary English writers —a poetry that
really sings. It is, to be sure, writing in
a minor mode; but it is graceful, elegant,
and hopefully suggestive that Mr Stall-
worthy has by no means reached the
limits of his capacity.
At the moment, his coolly civilised
romanticism functions best in poems
of childhood like “First Blood”, “No
Ordinary Sunday”, or “Then”. Their
rhythms sing the poet back into the past;
their controlled formality and the slight
edge of irony to their language ensure
that the imagination is not betrayed into
sentimentality. The value of childhood
for Mr Stallworthy, however, is not
simply to stimulate a nostalgia for times
gone by. From his youthful experience
he has been able to extrapolate some
important elements in his adult equip-
ment for facing the world. Boyish hero-
worship, for instance (seen in “No
Ordinary Sunday, is transformed into
a willingness to do honor to grace and
virtue wherever he finds them —and he
sometimes finds them in unexpected,
even seemingly old-fashioned places. In
poems like “Last Post” and “Here Comes
Sir George”, for example, he sets about
restoring the reputation of the type
which until recently was derided as a
“Colonel Blimp” or “Pillar of the British
Raj”.
The desire to w'rite poems w'hich will
incarnate positive images of the good life
has led Mr Stallworthy to an admiration
for Yeats (“Open Letter to W. B. Yeats”)
so marked that some of his pieces are
close to outright imitation. Those which
attempt large metaphorical statements
about Life (“Death of a Clown”, “The
Last Mystery”) seem to me merely
inflated. “The Assault”, based as it is on
the myth of Troy, is much more success-
ful. Elsewhere, in work which is not
buttressed by the power of a remem-
bered childhood, Mr Stallworthy
achieves some neatly epigrammatic
effects or, as in some of the Indian
poems, some sharp pictorial reporting.
HThe title poem of “Out of Bounds”
records a youthful adventure when
the writer set out to reach a w'indmill in
a distant field but never quite reached his
destination. Since then he has cherished
the incomplete adventure as an image of
the romantic mystery of life. When Mr
Stallworthy crosses that last fence and
takes a close-up look at his windmill, I
expect he will reveal to us his fullest
abilities as a poet.
A book of verse entitled “Refusal to
Conform” is a rather forbidding pheno-
menon for a critic. Praise it, and you
deprive the poet of his non-conformity;
reject it, and you are numbered among
the Philistines. Such a crusty determina-
tion not to be accepted or even liked is
the most immediately striking quality of
James Kirkup’s latest (and, he tells us,
last) collection of poetry. The crustiness
is evident chiefly in the section of “Last
Poems”, but it is not simply the result of
accumulated ill-humor at critical re-
jection. There is a kind of desperate
honesty about these tough, bitterly
amused poems that extends beyond Mr
Kirkup’s relation to his readers to his
view of the whole world. There is, to
me, something curiously sad about these
last poems—registers of an imagination
which has found all human relationships
so worthless (and meaningless?) that it
has chosen in the end “to live/ In the
infinitive”.
The root cause of Mr Kirkup’s re-
jection of both his readers and the world
at large is perhaps to be found in the
poems grouped together as “First
Aesthetics”—here published for the first
time. Their closest literary affinity seems
to me to be with some of the work of
Wallace Stevens. There is, for instance,
an affinity in the use of language. Mr
Kirkup, like Stevens, uses language in
these early pieces not as a means of
capturing reality but of creating it. (It
is no accident that one of the longest
sequences in this section is called “Ten
Pure Sonnets”.) It may be that as he
ha£. increasingly discovered the world’s
refusal to conform to his shaping word
he has become increasingly suspicious of
what is left for him to deal with. At the
same time, there, in his swift leap from
image to image, in the swaggering con-
duct of his lines, an element of what I
can only call intellectual dandyism
again closely akin to some of Stevens’s
writing. It is probably this quality as
much as any other which accounts for
what Mr Kirkup takes to be the critical
neglect of his verse.
Between “First Aesthetics” and “Last
Poems” Mr Kirkup offers in this book,
as well as some translations from the
French, groups of poems set in Malaya
and Japan. The Malayan pieces provide
some of the most sharply etched
examples of reportage in “Refusal to
Conform”. The Japanese poems include
a*certain amount of flip satiric observa-
tion (“Nippon's Nonstop Nudes”); when
they make use of the elusive form of the
haiku, they also permit Mr Kirkup some
of his most satisfying encounters with
personal emotion. Generally, Japan
seems to have had a liberating effect on
his imagination. He responds happily to
the elegance of its landscape and man-
ners. And it is in Japan that he can
essay his most direct statement of pas-
sionate contact with the rest of the
human race. “No More Hiroshimas”
starts out as a fairly sardonic satire. But,
after bringing its attention round to some
of the most poignantly human relics of
the atomic holocaust (“the bits of burnt
clothing/The stopped watches, the torn
shirts”) it can end with the admonition
to “Remember only these./They are the
memorials we need”.
H. P. HESELTINE


DISSENT
Labor traumas
DLP deal terms
The Cold War
Leisure and growth
Creighton Burns
Frank McManus
Raymond Aron
Keith Frearson
also articles on the Chinese Economy, the Mafia,
New Guinea, Jim Cairn's Dreamworld, Defence,
Censorship, the Communist Rift, and book reviews
and notes and comment.
52 pages, the Autumn issue of DISSENT is on sale
now at 2/6 in newsagencies: and why not sub-
scribe—l 2- for 5 issues, 20/- for 10, to
DISSENT, Box 4044, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Small stocks available of the controversial pamphlet
on the Melbourne Peace Movement, and C. A. R.
Crosland's The New Socialism —2- each.
LETTER FROM FRANCE
Beer and Abos
Australie. Peter Michaels. Editions
du Seuil, Paris. 4.90 francs.
/Ather nations, Mr Michaels notes,
” have long since awarded themselves
a “national character” and have been
allotted one (rather less flattering) by
their neighbors. The Australian image,
in contrast, is slow in emerging, both in
foreigners' minds and in our own. Dis-
regarding some incoherent British pre-
judices about Australia (for these are
too obviously designed to bolster the
Britons’, own ego), foreigners are un-
familiar with our country and people,
while we, in turn, are not given to self-
analysis and certainly not to thinking in
terms of our national destiny.
Indeed. Mr Michaels invokes this very
fact to explain the difficulty a foreigner
has in talking to Australians: “Aus-
tralians are not very curious by nature.
You could announce that you had just
arrived from Mars and they would
simply ask you whether it was hot or
cold up there. The questions they put
to a foreigner are often only polite
formulas, intended to put him at his
ease.”
Despite ignorance on the one side and
reluctance on the other, an Australian
image is coming into focus, and Mr
Michaels' book contributes to it. It is
published within 18 months of a
sumptuous Swiss book in the French and
German languages (“L’Australie”, by
Tibor Meray) and, to a surprising extent,
it says just the same things. It will have
a much wider audience than the ex-
pensive Swiss album, for it is number 33
in the popular “Petite Planete” series
which seeks to give practical guidance
to prospective travellers.
Not that any European is likely to
undertake the journey to Australia after
reading this book. In fact, wherever it
gains currency the Australian Govern-
ment tourist services may as well give
up for a few years. The account it pro-
vides of the superficial, tourist Aus-
tralia (hotels, restaurants, entertainment,
curiosities and the like) is quite repellent.
The pieces in the mosaic are standard:
f'cer, convicts, sheep, abos, the accent,
ueer, Phar Lap, bushrangers, prosperity,
beer, Santamaria, Anzacs, “Voss”,
floral prints and The Bulletin. Put
mto French, some of these acquire a
briefly startling unfamiliarity, as when
milk-shake becomes loit parfume a la
glace, swaggie is transformed into clock-
ed de la brousse and new chum shows
U P as nouveau copain. Highly approxi-
mate renderings sometimes increase one’s
surprise: bodgies surely are not blousons
ao'us and ratbags not salauds. However,
under the linguistic disguise one soon
rec °gnises the familiar Australiana of
our visitors. They must be right, because
they all agree on the catalogue.
More significant for the formation of
the Australian image abroad is their
accord on the “national character”, on
the general impression the mosaic gives
when all the pieces are in place. It is
that Australia is the land of boredom
and the Australian the authentic “man
without qualities”, the faceless member
of the human race whose character it
is to be stripped of everything charac-
teristic.
Mr Michaels dips his pen in Mr
Meray’s inkwell to write, “The Aus-
tralians usually put on a mocking ex-
pression, they defend themselves against
solitude with a typical sense of humor
which covers a profound melancholy
that is born not from a tragic sense of
life but quite simply from boredom . . .
they are gnawed by despair and over-
come by the monotony of their exis-
tence.”
ITe attempts no sociological explanation
of this “atmosphere of profound in-
difference” that hangs leaden over the
nation. He is largely content with that
philosophy of Australian history that
is by now two generations old: this loss
of character is just what happens to the
European when transplanted to the fringe
of a wide brown land. He ends by telling
the European not to find the Australian
odd because he is just the European him-
self stripped culturally naked: “If you
are not wholly captivated by his example,
look for the reasons around you and in
the secret of your own heart. When
you prefer leisure to work, when the
constraints of class and hierarchy oppress
you, when you put security before
ambition and comfort before enterprise,
when you hesitate to share your privileges
with the poor of this earth, when you
adjust instead of creating, when you
rush toward the sun and the sea, then
you are showing typically Australian re-
flexes. So it is not reasonable to suppose
that if you had to start everything all
over again, far away on, an unknown
shore, with pieces that you had brought
with you or borrowed or deformed or
purchased or made up from memory,
you would end up with something
strangely resembling . . . Australia?”
There is probably nothing we can do
about this picture, which seems well set
on the way to becoming a standard image
of Australia. So best not try. The
English, resenting a similarly unpalatable
reputation, have been trying for centuries
to convince the world they are not
perfidious hypocrites and have got no-
where. All one can do is ensure that,
out of deference to foreigners, we do
not accept their estimate as our own
view.
No, Australian stereotypes about Aus-
tralia (there are always several such
current in a country) are and should
remain distinct from the national
character we are allotted in foreign
books. Mr Michaels is useful in looking
at the main ones, and in noting that they
are all crumbling right now because the
Australians are going through a crisis in
their self-esteem. One piece of folklore
*—“rnateship, equality, roughness, audac-
ity, trade-unions, beer and blasphemy”—
would no doubt have rotted from its own
inner hollowness even if it had not run
aground on the realities of our present
situation. The contrary self-portrait
“conventions, clubs, attachment to the
Empire, bourgeois bon ton, puritanism,
striped suits and false Tudor archi-
tecture"—was powerful far beyond its
numerical support because it was the
image of a would-be ruling class that
aspired to create a new England in the
South Seas, with themselves in the House
of Lords. Notoriously, it had crumbled
even before invading Americanism made
it look ludicrous.
These two myths found their extremest
expression in the two characteristic types
of Australian sociology, to which Mr
Michaels gives detailed attention
the larrikins and the wowsers. The
successor-myths, which he is sure are
already in gestation, will have to fight
their way against the larrikin and wowser
mentalities. (Our third peculiar social
type, a raucous, over-dressed, arty-crafty
variety of female, is culturally sterile,
for good or ill. Uncertainty about
their success in asserting themselves
against those played-out but noisy forces
may well be what makes Australia hard
both for the foreigner and for ourselves
to understand.
Mr Michaels admits as much when
he says, “This is why Australia is, for
the writer, so hard a subject to grasp.
Behind a calm facade, one senses intense
movement. Transformations are going
on before one's eyes, yet one often can
believe that it is a matter of installing
a new decor rather than a real change
of structure. Nothing imposes itself
with force, no perspective stands out
clearly.”
NEIL McINNES


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
A Bright US Election Year
Economic forecasters in the US are becoming more
enthusiastic about prospects for maintaining the current
boom. Even the conservative pulse-feelers, who said
that the US would need to create a peace-time record to sustain
the current boom, are now putting their fears behind them.
And why? Because the record has been established, Wall
Street has climbed to new peaks and the Johnson Administra-
tion has determinedly set its face against any downturn.
Production is up, sales are up and instalment credit has jumped
by at least 12 p.c. in the past year.
A nervous investor, eyeing his paper profits on Wall Street,
may feel that this is a good time to cash in, without pressing
his luck. But since Wall Street surged through the magic 800
barrier, brokers report that the
small investor is returning with
greater confidence.
They apparently are content
to ignore the big wipe-out of
1962 and are buttressing their
confidence with delectable
statistical tid-bits like these:
Prices since 1957 in the US
have risen by only 7 p.c. com-
pared with 45 p.c. in France,
20 p.c. in Italy and 15 p.c. in
Germany and the UK; Gross
National Product has jumped
by 16 pc. in three years and
output per man-hour in manu-
facturing industry has jumped
from 2.0 p.c. in 1960 to 3.7 p.c.
Increased productivity has helped to subdue prices and
although wages have risen by 28 p.c. since 1958, productivity
has not been far behind with a rise of 20 p.c. in the same
period.
Although the price index has increased by 7 p.c. since
1958, there has-been virtually no change in prices for domestic
appliances and furnishings, while most manufactured goods
have risen in price by only about 1 p.c. per annum. The big
price increases have been in medical care and public transport
(both 1 8 p.c.).
Amidst this prosperity, wages have been kept in check by
a persistently high unemployment rate and is still currently
around 51 p.c. with heavy emphasis on unskilled, colored labor.
Government researchers and others now say that Govern-
ment spending, plus renewed investment by industry before
and after the tax cut, will stimulate expansion until 1965 and,
despite the stubborn balance of payments gap, America is
becoming more competitive and better able to compete on
European markets where costs are bounding ahead.
Internally, this sounds fine. But overseas countries, faced
with rising costs and balance of payments headaches, have
limited ability to pay for American goods. Over-production
and lack of funds to finance imports is still a major world
problem.
So both the undeveloped and the developed nations must
US Industrial Production
wonder if the current American prosperity will rub off onto
them by permitting greater exports to the US. If not, they
may be unable or unwilling to purchase American goods.
And, as the cycle progresses and pressure grows on the US
dollar, the internal boom could have difficulty in maintaining
its steam.
UN Trade Conference
Digging In
/Commentators will doubtless be given many opportunities
to revert to the gigantic United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development, which began in Geneva on March
23. Some 1700 delegates from
123 countries are expected to
engage in a prolonged three
months of deliberations.
The Minister for Trade, Mr
John McEwen, who is attend-
ing the early sessions, should be
able to hear plenty of grouch-
ing from the genuinely under-
developed nations. For by tacit
consent and organisational
design, the conference can be
dominated by those countries
suffering most from the ruling
pressures of world trade
especially the long-term trends
against primary producers.
Another Australian, Sir
Ronald Walker, has been elected chairman of the “General
Expansion of Trade and Regional Groupings Committee.”
Apart from plenary meetings, other committees are to handle
primary commodities, manufactures, financing and institutional
problems.
Unfortunately the conference did not take very long to
become disturbed by a familiar East-West type of division.
The credentials of South Africa also raised the ire of a group
of African representatives.
The first quarrel may perhaps prove the more fundamental.
Many less developed countries see precious few advantages
in GATT as a stimulator of fresh trade patterns. They
support the idea of a complete, new world body. This notion
could probably receive encouragement from Russia, not a
GATT member.
Basic discussions at the conference will mostly take their
direction from a programme put forward by the outstanding
Argentinian economist Dr Raul Prebisch, the conference’s
secretary-general. Dr Prebisch has gone to considerable pains
to publicise his attitudes and to seek adherents for them.
Prominent among the Prebisch notions is a scheme to
stiffen orthodox commodity agreements with a system of short-
term compensatory payments. Industrialised countries bene-
fiting by a worsening of commodity producers’ terms of trade


would refund at least part of the income gain to the loser,
developing countries.
Such redistribution, to be vetted by a world monetary
authority, would leave development plans unaffected by any
adverse turn in commodity prices.
International commodity arrangements, however, cannot be
regarded as fundamental to the economic reorganisation of
the slowly progressing, underdeveloped nations. Schemes in-
volving wider and preferential markets for their manufactured
goods hold out much more hope.
Indonesia Struggles to Lift
Foreign Trade
HThe grandeurs and follies of Indonesia’s attempted confron-
tation of Malaysia, and even scornful outbursts on
foreign aid, are not necessarily obscuring its desire to develop
a more sensible front on external trade. Latest feelers
indicate an attempt to overcome the unwisdom of the last
few years.
Where Australia can fit into any increasing trade pattern
is not wholly clear. With peace
in the Pacific at stake, any
toe-hold must surely be worth
examination especially if it
does not only depend on higher
petroleum imports.
One sign of the Indonesian
wish to improve contacts with
industrial countries will be
furnished by Dr Subandrio’s
trip to Holland. Almost cer-
tainly he plans to meet Dutch
manufacturing interests.
The Indonesian Government
has recently given a little more
rein to the grandiloquently
named “Consultative Body for
National Private Enterprises”,
so that the private sector can play a bigger part in the
generally “guided economy”.
Joint ventures have brought in American, West German
and French firms. Much financial opinion believes the way
for the West is now more open. An Indonesian Export De-
velopment group has been formed to smooth the domestic
hindrances on foreign trade.
Even with these machinery aids, Indonesia’s trade pros-
pects don’t look too happy at the moment. Difficulties on
the commodities side abound and greater industrial produc-
tion represents a long, slow haul.
Science Spreading to
the Waterworks
Aur Man on the Land article, “The Storm Over Irrigation”
(The Bulletin, March 28), has provoked quite a flood
of comment. Efficient use of Australia’s limited water resources
seems to be a thorny topic stirring a wide variety of people,
country and city dwellers alike.
Here is a field, too, where expert economists and civil
engineers are working more closely together, though great
differences of opinion on particular schemes still arise.
But the experts do appear to agree that far from sufficient
preliminary investigation has been given to the bulk of Aus-
tralian irrigation and hydraulic-power plans.
Intangibles like national development and the final siting
of particular proposals they are very willing to leave to the
politicians. Not so such things as the meeting ground between
technical design, costs and economic advantages.
With costs in particular the old ideas of simple comparison
are growing outmoded. Your engineer-cum-economist will
now produce a benefit-cost curve to show how to maximise,
for any water proposal, the ratio of benefit value to con-
struction and running costs.
Perhaps the age of sentiment, State and otherwise, is fast
disappearing!
Sydney Stock Exchange and
the Smaller Investor
Oydney Stock Exchange’s 1963 report is to be welcomed
first for a wealth of information finely and succinctly
displayed. Then, and more importantly, it seems to breathe
an assurance that investors’ interests are mostly being well
served under the aegis of the present committee.
This assurance and the con-
tinuing high reputation of the
Exchange must be doubly pro-
tected. For in recent years
members have quite prominently
set their caps towards a
relatively unversed newcomer
—the small investor. And just
after his most active courting,
this investor was given some
particularly disillusioning
knocks.
Small wonder that he went
to earth for a period!
However, Exchange chairman
Mr A. H. Urquhart can now
honestly state: “Towards the
end of 1963 it became obvious
that the smaller investor had returned to the market in force
for the first time since the major company collapses which
began in 1960.”
The prevailing trends in the sharemarkets show that, after
a quickly revived enthusiasm, investors are learning to be able
to pick a careful path to the better industrials and perhaps
even seem willing not to let a sugar or base-metal boom go
too far.
In any case, it is good to know that the Exchange is striving
to give backbone to such pious words as the following: “We
would be ill advised to forget, for instance, that there is no
substitute for able, prudent and honest management ... or
that the need is any the less for higher standards of reporting
to shareholders.”
Not only investors, either, should be asked “to see that
the discovery and development of new natural resources is
backed by the fullest mobilisation of investment funds, and
so ensure that they remain truly Australian assets.” There
have been some pretty reluctant mobilisers of risk capital
among some of those capable of underwriting.
Meanwhile it might comfort the smaller investor especially
to examine the accompanying graph of profits and dividends
between 1955 and 1963. The dotted line from 1960 onwards,
which ignores losses, fully confirms an improved economy.
The dividend-paying companies distributed 61.3 p.c. of
their profits during 1963, compared with a 62.2 p.c. average
in the years since 1955 (again ignoring losses).


LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
LANCE GRAHAM
Member o) the Sydney Stock Exchange
56 HUNTER STREET
SYDNEY
Telephone: 28-5721
Telegrams: Lagram Sydney
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: ‘‘NEyITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.(f. BOX
(1 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH:
2 Denham Street Phone: 6089
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Dr Neutze Stops the Traffic
The high cost of parking
T eaving aside the question whether Dr
G. M. Neutze’s suggestions to
reduce congestion in Australian capital
cities would greatly assist decentralisa-
tion beyond metropolitan areas, they are
certainly soundly based in economic
theory, relying firmly on no less an
economic plank than the central law of
scarcity value itself.
His basic idea, as expressed in his
recent report on “The Economics of
Decentralisation in Australia” (prepared
with the financial backing of the NSW
Government, the Reserve Bank and the
Social Science Research Council of
Australia), is that definite and sub-
stantial advantages would accrue from
levying charges on road users proportion-
ate to the costs of the congestion they
cause. In central city areas the cost of
parking in streets should, it is suggested,
be a function of the average speed of
through traffic and the real estate value
of parking sites.
As a matter of fact, this is already
being done, but on a rule of thumb
principle, first by the prohibition on
parking in certain of the busiest streets
in Australian capitals and by charging
parking fees and limiting permissible
parking time in others, graduating down
to cheaper rates and longer stays in the
less congested city streets, and ultimately
to no-cost parking where congestion is
not a pressing problem.
Nor is this just a matter for muni-
cipalities. Under a by-law the Hastings
Shire Council in Victoria charges parking
fees for motorists stopping on the public
highway at Point Leo and employs a
permanent ranger to collect the fees,
though this is an isolated headland and
miles from anywhere.
Dr Neutze’s proposals are simply a
scientific extension of this well-estab-
lished system which has resulted from
the assumption by councils of the
authority to apply the economic law of
scarcity value to street parking. (Neutze
says there is no reason, following the
same principle, why motorists should not
pay other external costs of road traffic
such as when they create serious noises
and fumes and where they seriously add
to the danger of living and walking in
the streets. To some extent this is
already being done, by implication any-
way, in no-hooting regulations, though
fines for breaches must be very rare.)
It will be remembered that Mr George
Schwartz, a distinguished economics
journalist, put up a strong defence of the
application of the law of scarcity value
to road usage in the London “Sunday
Times” some years ago. His fellow
member of the Reform Club in London,
Mr Ernest Marples, the present UK
Minister for Transport, has taken a cue
from him by recently increasing parking
fees in the West End by 500 p.c.
(Incidentally Mr Marples is something
of an eccentric and, largely eschewing
motor transport, rides round London
mostly on a push bike, though not quite
in the old style of our own Minister of
Transport, Hubert Opperman.)
Obviously the author of the proposals
has looked deeply into their possible
repercussions, but it seems to go against
his idea that they would hasten decentral-
isation for him to'say (presumably to
reassure inner city businesses) that by
encouraging the use of public transport,
particularly trains, they might give
central city areas a new lease of life by
giving them back some of the advantages
of accessibility they had before their
streets were choked with motor vehicles.
The impression is inescapable that, as
an economist, Dr Neutze, like many
others, has been looking for a sensible
way of driving more passenger traffic
back to the railways. He sees in the
virtual prohibition of private cars in
central city areas an excellent way to do
this. As an economic proposition it is
plausible, but the bigger questions are
whether it is what people, particularly
city property owners who pay the rates,
actually want, and whether in fact
people will turn to public transport to
get them into the inner city area or do
their shopping in suburbia.
Dr Neutze’s proposals would put the
maximum parking fees in the central city
zone of Sydney up to between Bs. and
10s. an hour, though he admits a limit
of ss. might be the highest practicable.
At these rates business costs would be
the main sufferer, because there can be
little doubt that most private motorists
would avoid bringing their vehicles into
the area.
So quite apart from the possibility
that business houses would lose custom,
this has to be weighed against the
economies accruing to the community
in general as a result of easing con-
gestion. The calculation of net advant-
ages would be most complicated, though
despite Neutze’s argument that it does
not necessarily follow from his proposals
that the decline of the central area would
be hastened, it is difficult to envisage city
retail business coming well out of them.
Dr Neutze’s road is not the one
private motorists or city businessmen will
want to travel. Nor would it seem an
easy course for inner city councils to
take with so much new business area
development proceeding and so much
established retail business at stake. For
the one certain effect of the proposals
would seem to be to stimulate the already
significant drift of retail shopping to the
suburbs.
If this is the sort of decentralisation
Dr Neutze is after, he is in a small
minority. It may be difficult for a Can-
berra resident to understand but, to most
people in the big cities, shopping in
“town” is irresistible despite the agonies
of traffic congestion in getting there.
The danger is that State J Governments
may see in Dr Neutze’s proposals an
easy alternative to the acceptance of an
altogether unsatisfactory provision of
Federal Government finance for modern-
ising the traffic approaches and outlets
from the inner city areas of the State
capitals, of which Melbourne is by far
the most urgently in need of drastic
action.
But it would not be surprising if, as
a stop-gap measure, the proposals opened
the way to some increases in parking
fees and, indeed, this may be worth
trying, though not on the steep scale
proposed, to see how much marginally
essential traffic could be kept out.
All indications are that a large slice
of private motor vehicles entering the
city area daily is only marginally
essential.


How long is it since you last
looked over your Will.. ?
Time passes all too quickly and, when you look back, you’ll find your
personal circumstances are continually changing, too! Just consider
. . . you marry . . . you raise a family . . . you acquire property . . ,
and maybe you become a grandparent . . . these are just some of the
things that could make a new Will necessary.
Revising a Will is an important matter and, in the interests of depen-
dants, should be done regularly, with an expert to assist you.
Perpetual Trustee Company, with more than 76 years’ specialist experi-
ence in planning Wills for people in all walks of life, will be happy to
provide expert guidance in the planning of your Will and arranging
your estate so that today’s heavy death duties are kept to a minimum.
There is no charge for Perpetual’s advisory services and you are invited
to call and discuss these matters with one of our senior officers.
Ask Perpetual today for your cdpy of a free booklet outlining the
Company's many services.
PER
TRUSTEE
PE
COMPA
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. TELEPHONE 2 0377
Offices at Newcastle, Wollongong, Orange, and Tamworth.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA) LTD.
M.L.C. BUILDING, PETRIE STREET, CANBERRA, A.C.T.
'PUT.-iYOUR TRUST IN PERPETUAL
“CROESUS"
Monetary Questions for Tokyo
Finance ministers to face world liquidity problems
T ike the Olympic teams of the world,
the finance ministers of their
countries will be meeting in Tokyo later
this year. One wondered, when listen-
ing to Mr Holt chiding the United States
about its virtual ban (through the
interest equalisation tax) on foreign lend-
ing, whether he was thinking ahead to
the world liquidity problems facing the
Tokyo meeting of the IMF and the
World Bank rather than to possible
clouds on Australia’s balance of pay-
ments front which would make the loss
of a couple of big dollar loans a year
much more serious than it is this year
and possibly next year as well.
At this juncture our balance of pay-
ments position looks pretty well im-
pregnable on a 12 months’ view, at least.
For not only have we more than £BOO
million in our overseas reserves, but we
are drawing substantial sums of dollars
from the World Bank to finance the
Snowy Mountains Authority’s expendi-
ture and have further increased our
drawing rights at the IMF in the last
12 months.
Exports also are still buoyant, world
commodity prices continue to rise, and
capital inflow looks to be running at well
over £3OO million a year.
Even the most cautious of Treasurers
could sleep well o’ nights on that lot,
granted that in this uncertain world the
position cou'd conceivably deteriorate
without warning.
If indeed the Treasurer was looking
rather further afield than Australia on
the impact of the US lending ban, he
would, of course, be most likely to be
viewing the prospects for the sterling
area of which we are still a member. It
m ay come as rather a shock to find that,
despite the buoyancy of exports both
from Britain and the oversea sterling
area countries over the last year, ster-
area gold and dollar reserves were
down to the equivalent of £stg93B
rnillion, about £stg6o million below the
level of a year earlier and more than
million less than in May last
year, when they reached £stglo46
million.
There is a lot more to this than the
act that Britain itself has been running
a huge deficit in its balance of pay-
ments, which is, of course, directly
attributable to the stimulus applied to
get the country out of its deep recession
? 1962-63 (when unemployment was
m the region of 900,000 at one stage
during that winter). This has certainly
been at the root of the deterioration in
sterling area reserves and at the present
rate of deficit on current account Britain
would have a deficit of more than
£stg2oo million this year.
Moreover it has to be recognised that
although the overseas sterling area
countries increased their imports only
moderately last year when almost uni-
versally their exports rose substantially
(about a third of it being attributable to
Australia), they are more than likely to
step up their imports this year on the
strength of their strong reserves.
There could well be some shrinkage
in UK and some other sterling area


./ >v. -
;■ „v - 1
LOMBARD AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Chairman’s Statement to Shareholders at Twenty-Eighth Annual
General Meeting on April 3rd, 1964.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
It gives me great pleasure to report that the consolidated profit of the Lombard Australia
Group for the year ended 31st December, 1963, after taxation of £4,273, is £127,797. This
measures up to the Board’s anticipated results for the year under review.
The amount of new business undertaken during the year was considerably greater than
that for the previous year. In line with the Board’s conservative policy, the most selective
standards were applied and as a result of this policy, Accounts Receivable of the Group
increased from a total of £12,519,189 in 1962 to £13,704,913 at 31st December, 1963.
The provision for unearned income, always an important factor for future profitability,
increased during the year under review from £1,166,917 to £1,460,194 representing an increase
in percentage of outstandings from 9.32 to 10.65.
With regard to the current year, I am very pleased to be able to report that to date there
has been a considerable advance in both amounts of new business undertaken and, of even
greater importance, profitability. The Board is confident that, in the absence of unforeseen
circumstances, these favourable trends will continue.
The Company’s Deposit Accounts continue to provide an excellent medium and service
for both short and long term depositors. Cash at call and short notice was maintained at a
high level and the amount at 31st December, 1933, was £1,000,000.
During 1963, and of particular interest to depositors, the Parent Bank, Lombard Banking,
took up for cash at par 3,316,425 shares of 5/- each which increased the ordinary capital to
£3,000,000. You will see that the share capital and reserves of the Lombard Australia Group
now amount to £3,953,520 compared with £3,103,623 in 1962.
Mr. George Simpson who, until his retirement, was Manager of the Reserve Bank in
Western Australia, joined our Western Australian Board in July, 1963. His ability and
experience as a banker and as a resident of Western Australia for some years will make a
valuable contribution to the affairs of the Company in that State.
Brig. The Hon. Stanley L. M. Eskell, E.D., M.L.C., who has considerable experience in
business and finance circles in Australia and abroad, joined the main Board in September, 1963.
Mr. A. Maxwell Fisher, 8.C0m., who held an executive appointment with one of Australia’s
leading companies, has been appointed General Manager and a Director of the Company.
I should like to pay personal tribute to the Staff who, at all levels—at Head Office and
Branches—have made a very real contribution during the year under review. It would not
have been possible without their intense loyalty and hard work to have produced the results
we now see.
LAWFORD RICHARDSON,
Chairman.


exports to Europe, which is currently
going through an indifferent economic
period. Some countries, like Italy which
had a current account deficit of $l2OO
million last year, are battling on their
overseas payments fronts. Western
Germany is the only Common Market
member making very much progress in
halting inflation in Western Europe.
Looking at the broader field of world
liquidity which may be exercising Mr
Holt and which will certainly be a thorny
question at the IMF meetings later this
year, Europe’s situation looks to be the
most sensitive of all to the current re-
strictions on US lending and other
measures being taken by that country to
reduce its balance of payments deficit
and by that route to strengthen the dollar
and stop the outflow of gold. While this
is not to say that Europe cannot afford
the denial of dollars which the Interest
Equalisation Tax and other US measures
such as reducing the foreign exchange
element in its overseas military expendi-
ture entail, it has to be recognised that
persistence with these US policies would
stop the huge increases in Europe’s gold
and dollar reserves which have’ been the
most striking feature of the world
liquidity scene in recent years.
VS/hile these increases have resulted in
” the Common Market’s total gold
and dollar reserves mounting to the fan-
tastic present total of $lB3 billion (or
nearly twenty times the gold and dollar
reserves of the whole sterling area),
there is some doubt as to whether, with
all three major industrial groupings
the US, Britain and the Common Market
■—striving hard at the same time to
improve their balance of payments
positions, these reserves would prove to
be as liquid as appears on the surface.
This problem is recognised by the
IMF, just as is the slender reserve
position of the sterling area and sterling
which carries more than half of the
world’s trade on a reserve of less than
$lOOO million. It is, therefore, under-
standable that at Tokyo the finance
ministers will be looking deeper than
they have thus far at IMF meetings to
put world liquidity on a basis which
will ensure the continued and if
possible more rapid —expansion of trade.
It may be only a coincidence, yet all
the major advances in improving the
machinery of world liquidity have been
made when the IMF has met outside the
United States, which it does in one year
out of three.
So here’s hoping for another major
advance in Tokyo. Perhaps we may see
the institution of international banking
deposits and the creation of monetary
certificates at the IMF for the use of
under-developed countries, to ensure that
their development is not interrupted by
liquidity crises affecting the main lending
countries of the world.
A Silent French Revolution
Significant results of regional development plan
By LUCIEN BOZ
Tn 1946, first year after the liberation
of France, a Planning Commission
was set up which is generally known
as the “Plan Monnet” because of the
part played in its development by Mon-
sieur Monnet, then High Commissioner
for Planning. It is widely agreed that
the recovery of France in the years after
the war was mainly the result of this
Plan.
Recently, the report of the Planning
Commission for the years 1962-63 was
published. Almost simultaneously was
published the report of Monsieur Olivier
de Guichard on the regionalisation
budget for 1964.
The present article is concerned not
so much with the report of the Planning
Commission as with Monsieur Guichard’s
recommendations and the highly signifi-
cant results of the “Loi de l’amenage-
ment du territoire” (law for regional
development).
From the published reports and the
decisions made during the past two years
can be gathered some idea of the policy
of territorial development and action to
be followed in the coming years.
If we look at the map of France, we
can simplify the economic and demo-
graphic situation of France by saying
that the country is divided into two
sections. One, to the east of a line
drawn from Le Havre to Marseilles,
contains the most productive areas. To
the west are the areas of low pro-
ductivity. Living conditions in the
eastern area are better consequently
there is a movement of the population
towards that area, permanently upsetting
the balance of the nation’s population.
It may be asked why the Government
waited until the middle of the twentieth
century to correct this fault. There are
two main reasons: the sudden increase
in the population since 1945, at the rate
of 250,000 to 300,000 per year, causing
overcrowding in schools and universities;
and, second, this increased population
has brought with it higher consumption
of products and a larger national
income.
After a period of stagnation between
the two world wars, France since World
War II has regained a healthy economic
state and has been able to promote the
Common Market between six European
nations, for the free trade of products
and the free movement of capital and
of people. However, one of the risks
of the Common Market is that the back-
ward areas of France may suffer even
more; they are at the extreme western
edge of Europe, remote from contact
with the other Common Market
countries.
The Common Market will be fully
established by 1970. Therefore France’s
Fourth Plan, published in 1962, set out
immediately to correct the imbalance
within the nation. Public investment
will be guided by the need to create a
balance between the east and west of
France.
Another important development in
1962 was the decision made by import-
ant industries to establish factories in
Brittany where emigration has been the
highest and which has always been a
symbol of the poorest parts of France.
In 1961, Michael Debre called together
representatives of a number of large
companies to encourage them to set up
factories in Brittany. They agreed and
although concessions were made to the
companies to induce them to invest in
that area, the most important result in
the past two years has been the creation
of thousands of new jobs. Other
neglected areas of France—cities such
as Bayonne, Prigueux, Cahors or Meade
—could equally benefit by this decen-
tralisation of industry.
experiment tried in Brittany proved
A that the relative placement of an
industry, however complicated its pro-
ducts may be, is of little importance;
the vital consideration is that there
should be the manpower available to
operate the machines.
Acquiring the right to resume land
is a major barrier to decentralisation.
Land speculation can create problems in
rural areas. Therefore special rural
development companies were created
with the important task of ensuring that
areas reserved for agriculture would have
sufficient size to be economically worth-
while. Meanwhile regional planners
estimated the possibilities that would
be offered them by the development of
the backward regions.
In February, 1963, a series of decrees
were published in the “Journal Official”,
dealing with territorial development. To
the existing Planning Commission was
added a National Commission for Terri-
torial Development; alongside these is
another Commission directly responsible
to the Prime Minister. The object of
these official bodies is to prepare the
“1985 layout” (la “Maquette 1985”) of
France.
The aims of the Commissions thus


M 3 c
FOR ALL FINANCE
ALSO
FACTORING-LEASING
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE CORPORATION LIMITED
OFFICES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
set up look well into the future because
among other eventualities is the possible
entry of England into the Common
Market and the effect of this event on
the overall plan. Some far-reaching
modifications to the scheme for France’s
redevelopment have to be allowed for.
To give the undeveloped areas of
France the chance to improve economi-
cally the objects of the plan include
construction of new roads, housing areas,
schools, sporting arenas and recreation
buildings for plays, concerts, etc. These
measures will help to cure the “head-
ache” suffered by all Governments: the
drift of populations of poor areas into
the big cities.
It was calculated by the Planning
Commission that by the year 2000 the
population of France will reach 65
million; that is, 20 million more than
today. The towns in poorer regions
will have to absorb the greater part of
this figure. With the tremendous expan-
sion of Paris itself, it will not be a great
problem if metropolitan Paris contains
the expected population of 5 million by
the end of this century.
The equilibrium must be created
between different regions of France,
between Paris and the other big cities,
between the towns and the country.
With the exception of Paris, there is
not one city in France with one million
inhabitants. Of course, Marseilles and
Lyons will touch the million mark before
1970. But soon after that, Lille, Rou-
baix, Tourcoing, Metz and Nancy will
also have more than a million inhabi-
tants each. Later, other regional centres
such as Toulouse, Bordeaux, Strasbourg
and Saint-Nazaire will each contain a
million people.
The policy of territorial development
provides for “regional vocations”.
Already, to speak of some of the areas
not yet fully developed, the triangle
formed by Brest-Le Mans-Angers has an
“electronic vocation” with important
electronic industries established there;
round Toulouse and Bordeaux is a con-
centration of aero-space industries.
The plan also provides for construc-
tion of a complex of harbor facilities
for the steel industry.
To co-ordinate labor, Mr Olivier
Guichard, Chief of the Commission for
Territorial Development, has been given
wide powers. As Chief of the Com-
mission, he will be directly responsible
to the Prime Minister.
budget for 1964 is the first con-
crete evidence of the work being
done by the Commission because, for
the first time, France’s budget has been
drawn up on a regional basis.
For the Ministry of National Educa-
tion, 50.6 p.c. of the equipment budget
has been put on a regional basis; 68 p.c.
of the urban equipment budget (Ministry
of the Interior) has been similarly allo-
cated as well as 80.1 p.c. of the Agri-
culture budget; 81 p.c. of the public
health budget; 83 p.c. of the public
works and transport budget (main high-
ways are excluded from the regional
programme) and 83.1 p.c. of the cultural
affairs budget.
The work has been streamlined by
being divided into “operative sections”.
Determined by districts of regional
action, the “operative sections” are
dealt with according to a list of the
works to be undertaken over a period
of four years (the length of one stage in
the National Plan). This method applies
to the Ministries concerned as well as
to the districts for regional action.
The operative sections of the fourth
plan have only come into force for the
years 1964 and 1965 of the plan, the
latest of the four-year plans. From
January 1, 1966, a new five-year plan
will begin. In addition, on that same
day, the “operative sections” for each
district of regional action will be put
into effect. Each year the equipment
budget for the various ministries will
detail, for the regional sections, the
assignments of work, so that at the end
of the period covered by the national
plan, each operative section will have
been completed.
As well as co-ordinating the concep-
tion and allocation of programmes, co-
ordinated execution of the work has to
be provided for. Measures have been
taken for this purpose. Monsieur
Guichard has been provided with a
special fund, FIAT (contingency fund
for territorial development). The fund
has three main purposes:
• To set in motion an urgent pro-
gramme which would then be taken over
by the appropriate ministry.
• To permit some variation in priori-
ties and options held by the technical
ministry.
• To assist in the completion of
complex programmes.
In addition, M. Guichard can refer to
the ministries concerned for reimburse-
ment to his fund of the credit he would
thus advance.
The FIAT fund has begun on a
modest level: 120 million francs (about
£AII million) for 1963, and 150 million
(about £A13.5 million) for 1964. It
will probably be greatly increased in
coming years.
The work of the Prefects of the
various departments of France will be
co-ordinated for the new plan by “co-
ordinating prefects”. In preparing re-
ports, the prefects will draw upon the
advice not only of the prefectorial
services of the different regions of
France but also of the Expansion Com-
mittees and the Economic and Social
Council. In these two bodies, the
farmers, businessmen, industrialists,
tradesmen and unions are represented.
This short summary of the aims and
preparation for development of France’s
poorer areas, provided for by the legisla-
tion for regional development, aims to
show how the depressed districts of
France will share together in a huge
and far-reaching scheme to give balance
to the population and economic develop-
ment of the nation.
It is a silent revolution that goes on
steadily without receiving much publicity
overseas, but has far-reaching con-
sequences for France and Europe. The
first important stage in the Plan will be
completed in 1985, with the outlook
for the year 2000 already in the minds
of the planners. France thus prepares
for a better organised future, the advan-
tages of which will be felt by the coming
generations.


AN ISSUE AT PAR (£100)
OF £250,000 REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE
STOCK AND REGISTERED
UNSECURED NOTES
1
ESTABLISHED 38 YEARS
DIRECTORS:
J. W. Douglass (Chairman)
F. E. Jones W. J. Farram
TRUSTEES FOR THE
DEBENTURE STOCKHOLDERS
AND UNSECURED NOTEHOLDERS:
Perpetual Custodians Limited
33-39 Hunter St., Sydney
P.T. Limited
33-39 Hunter St., Sydney
DEBENTURE STOCK
11% —6-10 years
li% —5 years
7i% —4 years
7%—3 years
64 %—2 years
UNSECURED NOTES
7i% —3 years
7% —2 years
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
PROSPECTUS & APPLICATION FORM
Applications can be accepted only on the
form of application referred to in and
attached to a printed copy of the Pros-
pectus which may be obtained from:
ALL MEMBERS OF
THE STOCK EXCHANGE
or direct from
DIRECT
ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION
LIMITED
Interocean House, 261 George St., Sydney. 27-8611
NSW.I4B7OA
SGC INVESTIGATION
Injections Against Board
Dictators
government-appointed investiga-
A tion into the collapse of Sydney
finance group, Sydney Guarantee Cor-
poration Ltd (in liquidation) and six
associated companies, at least stimulated
recommendations for preventing a
similar occurrence.
An important aspect of these recom-
mendations by investigators Mr F. S.
McAlary and Mr C. A. Gray is that
company boards should not be
dominated by one man or an associated
group of directors. When public deben-
ture money is raised, the trustees should
have the right and duty to appoint a
director to the board. But this goes only
part of the way, as the investigators
quickly recognise.
Such trustee director should be an
outsider with full right to demand in-
formation from auditors, and if the
board does not recognise his objection
to any particular transaction, or rectify
a situation which the trustee director
considers dangerous, it is suggested the
matter can be taken by the trustees to
the Equity Court.
Getting even closer to the problem,
based on instances where domination by
one key director may induce a dangerous
situation, the investigators maintain that
the boards of public companies should
be drawn from different sources and not
merely from a single associated group.
This would tend to make public com-
panies more public, and indicates a
degree of professional management
rather than vested interests.
But who is to say that professional
directors will not get ideas of their own?
Most public companies spring from
family businesses, painstakingly built up
to the stage where they may be accept-
able as a public flotation. The incentive
to maintain and expand the prosperity
of that family business often lies in the
large shareholding still retained by the
family. If administrative control is
dominated by outsiders, the family group
may prefer to get out and start another
business, possibly to the detriment of
public shareholders.
In essence, the recommendations by
the government - appointed investigators
of Sydney Guarantee Corporation clearly
apply to any group where debenture
borrowings are not adequately geared to
paid-up capital, where inter-company
dealings permit investment of funds in
speculative projects and where the risks
of bad debts and failure are abnormally
high.
Such risks may be argued m any
business undertaking and there are some
companies which have ridden to success
on speculative dealings. But the general
principles of conservatism outlined by
the investigators already apply to most
public companies and the safeguards
which are urged for investors inevitably
will be taken to apply more specifically
to finance companies and those engaged
in land development or speculative
projects, if only because of the series
of crashes in this area.


m
r. \ l
%
wmsmm
KH
«s!rf< X &
*
;
, . -
.
At all leading stores
nrREAT LOOK”
Tegreft* in even,n ß wear
BOLD! museum® SOPHISTICATED!
Flashlights, beautiful ,
Wool's great o°K sophisticated.
Bold, “P natural
with a new eleg tapere d
shoulderhne and g the great
trousers. Wool ere the move, a
look for S! S? an important
S.VV^.odKinWooU
I
1


MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING STAFF
Price Waterhouse & Co. invite applications from qualified
Accountants with suitable experience to join their
management accounting division. The work of this
department is varied and interesting, and would appeal
to Accountants wishing to make their career in the
expanding field of consultancy work in the profession
Apphcants should be between the ages of 27 to 40 and
should have had at least 2 years’ experience in one or
more of the following fields:
Management accounting and systems of budgetary
control; Mechanisation including punch cards
and electronics; Organisation and methods- and
costing.
Attractive salaries, which will be progressive, will be paid
according to qualifications and experience, and there are
excellent prospects for advancement.
Detailed applications should be addressed to:
"Staff—s 73"
Price Waterhouse & Co.
Box 4177, G.P.0., Sy3ney
INVESTMENT SECTION
Keeping Watch on the Barriers
Investors learn how to examine world metal prices
VTothing very fresh remains to be said
about the aura of success encom-
passing all the Barrier stocks. Investors
have declared their attitudes in the most
obvious manner. Even now, too, there
may exist some doubts whether New
Broken Hill and North prices stand as
high as they deserve to go.
At the time of writing, though, the
markets seem to be calling for a slight
breather. Almost a fortnight's base-
metal excitement has kept the indexes
on the boil during a period of rather
hesitant industrial interest.
Part of the halt may be due to a
fairly clear measure of profit-taking.
Another stimulus could set things going
again with the arrival of South’s esti-
mated results for the year ending June 30.
These will certainly be just as positive
as the figures from New and Norths
lately to hand. Directors’ remarks, if
any, might yet bring investors to terms
with South’s Cobar copper prospects
and the Alcoa holding, both of which
have been largely ignored up to the
present.
Presumably the markets are growing
well disciplined by a methodical scrutiny
of world lead-zinc-silver prices. They
would be heeding, also, the North com-
ment that its profit estimate assumes
present conditions will continue.
in those lights it is fruitful to compare
last year’s best share levels with recent
ruling rates: BH South 1963 high
19s. 6d., now 225. 10d.: Conzinc Rio-
tinto 275. 9d., 355.; New BH 755., 875.;
North BH 395. Id., 395. 9d.
CRA has been surrounded with a
continuous shine from considerable
development prospects, able to mask
the loss of uranium income, and sells
at about 20 times earnings. So far as
lead-zinc is concerned, its subsidiary
Zinc Corporation must reflect the
stream of Barrier prosperity and it has
a 32 p.c. holding in New BH as well.
But the neatly capitalised New and
the investment-rich Norths are each
available close to 10 times earnings.
New’s record profit for the year to
December last, gave a 127 p.c. earning
rate and produced an 80 p.c. dividend.
North believes it will double profit in
the year to June, has already lifted the
interim dividend and is most likely
planning to pay a final greater than
1962-63’s Is. a share.
The most recent upsurge in lead-zinc
prices confers immediate favors on the
companies balancing in June, for the
world markets have kept on running
ahead since December.
North's report set out the averages
realised in the eight months to February
against the averages for the previous
corresponding period. They were: Lead
£B5 ss. 3d. a ton (£63 4s. 6d.); zinc
£lO3 19s. 2d. (£B4 7s. 7d.); silver 11s.
6d. an oz (10s. 4d.).
The metal markets’ effulgence is
widely expected to hold right through-
out 1964. Indeed lead and zinc are in
a thoroughly satisfactory statistical posi-
tion. Vigorous industrial activity in
America, Britain and Western Europe
finds supplies hard to keep up with
consumer demands.
With any new production easily
absorbable, investors could be pardoned
feeling everything rosy for some time
to come. Overhigh prices, however,
may let in cheaper competitive metals
and overhanging any really desperate
supply position is the possibility of size-
able releases from the US stockpiles.
As suggested above, investors are
learning to observe these eventualities
and may even have to take into account
such refinements as overcoming the silver
shortage by not using so much silver
for coinage!
Hardie’s Bombshell
Tames Hardie Asbestos Ltd surprised
** the market with notice of its in-
tention to make a cash issue to share-
holders.
This is thg only call on shareholders
for capital since the shares were listed
in 1951. There have been three bonuses,
and, of course, the present issue has a
strong bonus element.
The 20s. shares closed at £6 17s. Od.
on the day the issue and a dividend
increase from 10 to 13i p.c. out of
1963-64 profits was announced.
The interesting question is why does
James Hardie need £816,392? At last
balance date for which accounts are
available, March 31, 1963, the company
had improved its working capital ratio
from 1.36 to 1 to 1.7(3 to 1.
Directors gave the explanation that
the issue was to finance development in
the manufacturing subsidiaries.
Is an increase in productive capacity
planned for building materials, pressure
pipes, thermal insulation or friction
materials?
One thing is certain: Last year’s earn-
ing rate of 21.3 p.c. will be exceeded in
the term to March 31, 1964.
Yarra Falls’ Profit Falls
T he t lower profit of Yarra Falls in the
December half-year should not have
surprised very many shareholders seeing
the chairman of this Melbourne-based
wool comber, spinner and weaver, Sir
Norman Robinson, did not make a par-
ticularly encouraging address at the
annual meeting last November.
He said then that imports had made


©62/52/64N
-mn—m
O —o :
MN-STARLIGH
SEND GOODS SAFELY - ON TIME!
For goods which must get interstate the next day,
use the new MN STARLIGHT SERVICE! Fast overnight
transports take goods interstate for prompt delivery
the following day.
Door-to-door delivery and radio controlled pick-up
vans make this daily Mayne Nickless service reliable
and convenient. Ring your nearest MN office now!
MAYNE NICKLESS
LIMITED
for every transport need
new orders harder to obtain. The import
threat was intensifying and overseas
cloth samples were being offered at much
lower prices than Yarra Falls’ cloth. He
went on to reveal that turnover had
eased in the first quarter of the year but
added that prospects for the rest of the
year were promising, subject to the
severe threat of import competition.
It is surprising that this import threat
received no mention in the interim
report. Directors merely referred to the
fact that operations had been very com-
petitive, so profit margins had declined
accordingly.
The dropping of the interim dividend
is the facet of the half-year which would
have caught many people off-guard. It
is true that earnings last year equalled
only 7.7 p.c. on capital (after the profit
slumped by £70,000 toy £192,000) and
did not cover the 8 p.c. dividend. But
the fact that directors drew on reserves
to make up the difference indicated that
they had every expectation of continuing
dividends and probably felt that 1964
earnings would cover the gap which
1963 did not.
The directors have apparently realised
how misleading their dividend decision
last year was and have wisely decided to
postpone any such considerations in the
current year until the final accounts are
available.
A Miller’s Tale of Woe
T>. W. Miller's complaint of higher
wage costs and rates and taxes
echoes that from Tooheys Ltd in the
latter’s annual report last October. No
doubt the giant Tooths would have the
same complaint, if it were more com-
municative.
Miller, while reporting favorable sales
and profits for the December six months
compared with its 1962 counterpart,
expressed concern at the pressure of
costs, against a steady selling price.
The present wholesale price of beer
was established in 1960, and Tooheys
informed its shareholders that the NSW
price was substantially lower than in
other States.
Miller has established or acquired
new hotels, so it is not yet limiting its
investment in the trade.
Pettiford’s Troubles
and steel products maker, H.
Pettiford Holdings Ltd, has fallen
on hard times. At one stage in 1963
the 20s. shares sold for 375. 6d. Now
news of omission of the interim dividend
brought the shares down to 16s.
In the last year to June, profit shrank
from £60,969 to £7,546 under the
influence of substantial losses at the St
Peters and Waterloo factories, and a
non-recurring loss from the transfer of
activities to Padstow.
Continuation of the problems through
the six months to December 31 suggests
that even with new management of the
Padstow factory, the company’s recovery
may be tardy. It was profitable in the
first half of 1963-64, but only just.
Pettiford is embarrassed by its in-
ability to sell the Waterloo and St Peters
properties.
Is This the End?
Tt is hoped that the takeover bid for
La Mode, the Melbourne underwear
manufacturer, will be the final chapter
in the company’s history. Maryborough
Knitting Mills has offered one ss. share
for every ten La Mode ss. shares. On
present market prices this offer is only
worth about 11+d. for every ordinary
share, which compares with asset back-
ing of 4s. 9d.
La Mode’s death, if this is it, has been
slow and painful. For a couple of years,
shareholders have realised that the group
was in difficulty. Then last September,
contrary to the directors’ expectations
earlier in the year, a £94,000 loss was
announced for the year to June 30.
This compared with the £llO,OOO loss
of 1962 and the 1961 profit of £23,000
from which a 4 p.c. dividend was paid.
Directors made no reference to the
future.
The annual report of mid-October
announced that assistance had been re-
quested from the State Government. At
the annual meeting on October 25, the
chairman, Mr D. G. Bell, said the group
was facing liquidation and added that
the possibility of recovery was remote
even if aid was forthcoming. He pointed
out that takeover was an alternative to
winding up but moves in this direction
had proved negative.
Matters were further confused when
chartered accountant Mr A. H. Ethering-
ton, in a report to creditors, claimed that
winding up would be suicidal and detri-
mental to all parties as it would involve
heavy realisation losses and eliminate
the possibility of sale as a going concern.


over
•' • '-V,'
BH
I
mm
different Sydney people are
sold on TCN 9 NEWS...
at least 2 l k times a week!
The News is news—on TCN channel 9, first in Australia
and way out in front with the news. The News is people
—over a million different Sydney people each watching
the TCN 9 News at least 2i times a week. The News
comes from Melbourne and Canberra on the co-axial
cable. The News is a tested and proved advertising
medium—that’s when it’s the TCN 9 News in Sydney.
SYDNEY PEOPLE ARE SOLD ON THE TCN 9 NEWS
THE NATIONAL TELEVISION NETWORK
national
TELEVISION
NETWORK
SALES SYDNEY: Ist Floor, Cricket House, George St. 27-2881
MELBOURNE: 247 Collins St. 63-8336
STUDIO & TRANSMITTER: Artarmon Rd. f Willoughby. 43-0444
TCN 9 SYDNEY—A KEY STATION OF THE NATIONAL TELEVISION NETWORK
*
TCN


1:
11
If
; *
m
i
,?'/•
*:,Vr
f // &r~
QiBS
His cigarette, too,
has a proud pedigree
Benson & Hedges Special Filter was once available only on blue-ribbon jet
flights between London and New York. Today, the cigarette has travelled,
and you too can enjoy its excellence. Benson & Hedges Special Filter, in the
elegant gold packet, is the right cigarette when only the best will do. And
isn’t that all the time?
Benson aj, Hedges
8H39.3.64
His recommendation to appoint a com-
mittee of management was adopted in
January when six men took over the
management of affairs.
Under this committee, Mr Etherington
hoped to determine if there was any
chance of profitable operation. Suspense
reigned until March 14, when takeover
negotiations were announced and share-
holders were warned that trading would
be at their own risk. Last week the terms
of the offer from Maryborough were
released —no doubt much weight will be
given to Mr Etherington’s opinions on
the matter.
Two-Year Wait for Real Form
"JI/Farcus Clark shareholders are told
that the company will “begin to
show its true earning capacity in 1966”.
So for those existing shareholders pre-
pared to wait at least two years to see
that prediction come true, the stock may
be reasonable holding, although the
interim report would not lure many new
investors.
Since last October, when an unsatis-
factory bad debts position was revealed,
the yield of the shares has lengthened
from 4.0 p.c. to 4.7 p.c. (Present price
is around 10s. 6d. for the ss. units, on
a steady 10 p.c. dividend.)
The incidence of bad debts will
apparently be heavy again this year. (In
1962-63 £102,216 was written off and
£26,022 provided for doubtful debts.)
• Optimistic observers would like to
think that the chief factor holding down
profit this year below last year’s level
is the cost of reorganisation and develop-
ment.
This four-year programme involves
centralising the activities of the NSW
stores, reorganising the outside selling
force, rebuilding the Newcastle store,
establishing the Tamworth store (opened
last November) and major building alter-
ations in Adelaide.
At least the company is growing—it
established a sales record of £5.4 million
in the half-year to February 1, 1964—-
in contrast to a few other old Sydney
retailers.
Takeover Skirmishes
rpHE takeover skirmishes for two of Vic-
-*■ toria’s permanent building societies
give support to the view that these
organisations will be an emerging force
in the housing finance field over the next
few years. This view was put in The
Bulletin of March 14 (p. 19).
Victoria Insurance has now changed
its bid for the Langridge Society to £ll
cash or a share swap, following the with-
drawal of Milton Investment from the
battle. Langridge directors are believed
to be very partial to a cash offering, so
they may seriously consider the with-


epic keeps
\\>
exporters afloat
Trading overseas on credit? Should your customers
founder, an epic policy will keep you afloat.
epic charts the way to smooth sailing with risk
assessments, credit intelligence and advice on
payment term patterns, epic insurance pays you
when your overseas customers can’t. Ask for the
booklet which tells how epic makes exporting safe.
EXPORT PAYMENTS INSURANCE CORPORATION
Commonwealth Government Guaranteed
Head Office: 2 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. 28 2321.
And in all other Capitals.
drawal of their recommendation to the
£lO cash bid made earlier by Savoy
Corporation.
The bright future predicted for these
societies is not the only reason why
Victoria Insurance has made such a
high bid for the £5 shares. It would
gain considerable benefits from the in-
surance on all the houses built through
the society.
From Savoy’s point of view, long-
term finance could be provided to its
customers on more favorable terms by
using the public borrowings of the
society.
The latest development is another bid
by Victoria Insurance, this time for the
Standard Society. The acquisition of
these two would mean that no Mel-
bourne-based permanent societies will be
left on the public lists. The future
must be bright for a situation like this
to exist.
J. Vicars Drifts Lower
T'he 20s. shares of John Vicars and Co.
Ltd, woollen goods manufacturer,
weakened to 18s. 3d. on news of an
interim dividend cut, lower profit and
unsatisfactory margins.
Looks as if shareholders will receive
6 p.c. for 1963-64, instead of 71 p.c.
as last year and 61 p.c. for the two
preceding years.
' The company is not a big earner or
payer, so the shares rarely stray far
above par. Unless there is a reversal of
form in the second half of this year,
the shares could have quite a lengthy
sojourn below par.
New Manly Skippers
Port Jackson and Manly Steam-
A ship Co. Ltd has experienced a
complete change of directorate (over a
two-year period) at a critical stage in
its career.
The company has not yet sold its
foreshore property at Neutral Bay,
formerly used as a maintenance depot,
which has a VG valuation of £82,000.
Its sale could remedy Port Jackson’s
more or less permanent state of
illiquidity.
A couple of years ago, the company
approached the NSW Government to
take over its ferry fleet. The Govern-
ment declined, but did make available
the Sydney Harbor Transport Board’s
Balmain maintenance works to the
company.
The new managing director (Mr J. C.
Needham), who has been on the board
for two years, operates the McMahon’s
Point ferry service.
Whether the Manly ferry company,
which runs a very reliable transport
service, can become a worthwhile profit-
earner depends very largely on an
imaginative approach by the new board.
The 10s. shares at 6s. 9d. (yielding
7.4 p.c.) carry a big question mark for
investors.
Factors Out of the Dirt
'VTow that Factors has finally knocked
down the barriers of doubt which
many investors held in regard to the re-
payment of debts, the shareholders can
look forward to better things in the
future.
Mr Stanley Korman gave assurance
last January that debenture-holders, un-
secured noteholders, fixed depositors and
unsecured creditors would be paid off in
full by April 30. However, the market
held back below the prices he suggested
—Factors’ investors had already had a
tough time and it seemed too good to be
true that fixed interest holders would get
their money back seeing this had not
been the case where all other recent
company collapses were concerned.
Exactly how much faith shareholders
and investors have in the company’s
future will now be reflected by the
market price of the ordinary shares.
Their main guide is Mr Korman’s
estimate of a 2s. 6d. asset backing for
each ss. share and his prediction at last
year’s annual meeting of a dividend
within two to three years.
If the diligence and ingenuity which
has pulled Factors out of the dirt con-
tinues, then these predictions have every
chance of coming through.
Complete control now exists over
Holeproof NZ, which is currently earn-
ing at an annual rate of £BOO,OOO before
tax. A 51 p.c. interest is still held in
Queensland Mines Ltd and a number of
properties in Melbourne," Brisbane and
Surfers Paradise.
The biggest debt left now is the one-
year debenture loan of £l.B million
from CAGA, carrying an 11 p.c. in-
terest rate. In making this loan, CAGA
has clearly imposed on Factors a
guarantee of good behavior.


•: : W-
-*+*<
-
Ux
m&*+
n~\
j,, \
:’ ■■>■:
i.. . •
'■’■■■
the
staff of
life
Our daily bread is something we take for granted. Yet from waving wheatfield
to the homely table a host of complex mechanised tasks are part of the process.
In the wheat industry, as in all the food industries, Dunlop is ever-
present. Seed drills sow the grain in orderly rows. Grain is hurried
to ships and wharfside from bulk terminals along the extended conveyor gal-
leries. Crisp, warm loaves are carried to the familiar baker’s cart untouched on
hygienic belting. In these and a thousand other ways Dunlop Industrial Pro-
ducts supply sustenance the very Staff of Life —not merely for our own
people but for millions of other human beings. Dunlop products always do the
job —any job they’re fashioned for.
the more you use rubber, the more you need
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS DIVISION
4(26


Sargeants’ Premium Issue
Grading in the rights to Sargeant’s
Engineering’s one-for-one premium
issue will start on April 13. They may
provide a fairly cheap opportunity to
invest in the company, depending on
what price the market gives them.
As a Queensland engineer and iron-
founder, Sargeants is in the position at
present to make the most of the develop-
ment of the State’s industrial and ship-
building strength and the expansion of
the sugar industry. The directors have
already said that profit increased sub-
stantially in the half to December 31.
They have also indicated that the 15
p.c. dividend will be maintained on the
higher capital, the new ss. shares (issued
at 155.) ranking for payment from May
1. A purchase of shares at the present
cum-rights price of around 20s. 6d.
would yield 4.2 p.c. once the new issue
is taken up and the 15 p.c. payout dis-
tributed.
More Than the Eye Can See?
HPhere seems to be more behind
J. Gadsden’s reduced interim divi-
dend than directors would have us
believe. Announcing a cut from 4 to
3 p.c. in the payout, they said that this
was “in pursuance of a policy to
strengthen the company’s reserves”.
At the last balance date, reserves of
£1.5 million compared with paid capital
of £6.6 million, so there is some case for
building up reserves. But a reduction of
1 p.c. means only a difference of about
£65,000, a figure which will make very
little difference to the position.
Even if the final payout is also reduced
to 3 p.c. (this would make an annual
rate of 6 p.c. as against the 8 p.c. which
has been paid for the past nine years),
reserves would increase by a relatively
puny £130,000 for the whole year.
The whole business is rather con-
fusing. If this is not the real reason why
the dividend was cut, it would seem
logical that profit is falling. However,
directors assured shareholders that sales
and profit had been maintained in the
December half-year and, more import-
antly, that they expected the results for
the full year to compare favorably with
1962-63 before taking into account the
£135,000 of bad debts charged in that
year.
This infers that profit may recover to
the record 1962 rate of £752,000 which
equalled 11.4 p.c. on paid capital. If
this be the case, then surely directors
should be satisfied with ploughing the
surplus 3.4 p.c. back to reserves instead
of trying to lift this figure by reducing
an already unspectacular dividend.
What Price Compensation?
Dmall wonder that Silverton Trans-
port’s shares are rising. The interim
report last month indicated a higher half-
yearly profit. Last year’s full profit
touched a record £173,000. Earning rate
moved from 14.4 to 17.6 p.c. and divi-
dend was raised from 10 to 121 p.c.
Profit can't help but show a fairly
substantial improvement this year. The
group’s railway line linking Adelaide to
Port Pirie and Broken Hill has been
raking in more money because of the
increased production of the Barrier
miners. And it looks as though their
"Once again I have to report a serious loss in our sales of tranquillisers."
production is going to keep rising for
some time yet.
However, what really makes the stock
attractive is an old Parliamentary Act.
Under this, the Commonwealth Govern-
ment must compensate Silverton if a
standard gauge railway is built along the
company’s above-mentioned line. Sir
Thomas Playford, Premier of SA,
recently said that such a line would be
built and completed by 1968.
Silverton’s current run of prosperity
means that the compensation may be
highly favorable. Apart from this, actual
assets backing is far in excess of present
market prices. For example, one news-
paper has pointed out that the share
portfolio is estimated at more than £2
million, whereas it was valued at only
about £1 million at last balance date.
Exactly how favorable the compensa-
tion will be (presuming it is not unfavor-
able) will be the source of many specu-
lative moves in the future, especially as
speculative rumors have been circulating
for years that one or a combine of
the Barriers could take over the com-
pany to make a saving on freight
charges.
Stafford in Difficulties
A ny alert investor would not have been
surprised by Stafford - Ellinson’s
decision to omit the interim dividend.
The company has been on a downward
trend for some time.
In 1960-61, before listing, profit
equalled 15.3 p.c. on the proposed
£300,000 capital. In 1961-62 it slipped
to 12.3 p.c. Then the company floated
to public status with an issue of 470,000
ss. shares on which 8 p.c. dividends were
predicted. In 1963 the promised payout
was made, but after profit had slipped
again to 11.2 p.c.
Of course it could be argued by those
who were caught unawares by the
interim report that they were expecting
a recovery after this bad run. Such a
line would hardly be logical in this case
because of the difficulties currently being
experienced by the whole clothing
industry.
Unlike Fitwear, which is in a similarly
difficult position, Stafford directors did
not talk very specifically on the profit
for the current term. They did infer,
however, that current conditions were
not the best by stating that last year’s
full dividend was not likely to be
repeated.
This was more or less a foregone con-
clusion anyway, seeing that the interim
was passed. Whereas Fitwear specified
its troubles, Stafford merely talked of
below budget sales and difficult trading
conditjons.


BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (£
million)
Year to
June 30
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
Current assets
5.0
9.9
10.4
10.8
12.9
Current
liabilities (a)
6.1
10.1
8.9
9.0
11.0
Net working
capital
(1.1)
(0.2)
1.5
1.8
1.9
Fixed assets
12.8
21.1
26.1
27.2
31.5
Investments
0.6
0.8
0.7
1.4
2.7
Intangibles
0.3
1.1
1.4
1.6
2.1
Total capital
13.7
23.0
29.7
32.0
38.2
Represented by:—
Negative working
capital
1.1
0.2
—
—
—
Loan capital (b)
1.1
3.1
4.6
5.6
9.6
Minority interests
—
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
Pref. capital
1.1
1.3
1.3
1.3
1.3
Convertible notes
1.2
2.2
3.0
3.0
3.0
Ord. capital
5.1
7.4
10.2
10.8
11.3
Deferred capital
0.7
0.7
1.2
1.2
1.6
Reserves
3.4
8.0
9.3
10.0
11.2
(a) Includes long
term
liabilities such as
trade
creditors, other creditors and tax
provision but
excludes deposits—fixed term and
call, secured
creditors, mortgages
(secured) and redeemable
notes.
(b) The items mentioned
in
(a) have been
sub-
tracted from
or added to
long term liabilities
to arrive at
the figure shown here.
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Sleigh’s Long, Hard Pull
Future commitments cannot be overlooked
HThe announcement of a drop of 19 p.c.
A in pre-tax profit of H. C. Sleigh
Limited produced a fall in the market
price of the company’s ordinary shares
of about the same order, thus proving,
perhaps, that investors are directly con-
cerned with profits rather than dividends.
But the price recovered and at current
prices around 10s. Bd., the shares show
an immediate dividend yield of 5.8 p.c.
The investor cannot overlook the fact
that maintenance of the normal dividend
rate from 1965-66 onwards will involve
a fairly substantial lift in the total divi-
dend payout. On June 30, 1965, ordinary
capital will be increased by £1,225,644
when the 74 p.c. note issue converts to
ordinary shares and on June 30, 1968,
there will be a further increase of
£1,216,667 when the 64 p.c. issue con-
verts.
Therefore, even without any other
additions to equity capital in the mean-
time, dividend payout will increase to
just over £1,572,000 from the 1965/66
year onwards and to £1,724,000 approxi-
mately from the 1968/69 year onwards.
In the 1971/72 year, the dividend
payout will be raised at least another
£187,500 when the “B” deferred shares
have become “B” ordinary shares and
entitled to a 74 p.c. dividend. If these
“B” ordinaries are converted to ordinary
shares at July 1, 1971, the payout will
increase by yet a further £125,000,
bringing the total to £2,037,000 approxi-
mately.
As the 1963/64 earnings are likely to
more than cover the dividend payout,
it will be conservative to assume that
earnings in 1963/64 will be £1,420,000
—i.e., just sufficient to meet the commit-
ment of £1,419,000 approximately.
Otarting with this figure, it is interest-
ing to note the annual rates of in-
crease (compound) which will be neces-
sary to bring earnings to the required
levels to just meet the dividend commit-
ment.
Dividend Minimum
Year to requirement annual
June 30 £’ooo increase %
1964 1,419
1965 1,419 3.5
1966 1,572 3.5
1967 1,572 1.6
1968 1,572 1.6
1969 1,724 1.6
1270 1,724 5.6
1971 1,724 5.6
1972 2,037 5.6
Account has been taken in the table
for the increase which will occur
automatically when the interest charge
is eliminated.
Expressed as a level annual percentage
over the whole period, an annual rate of
increase of 3.7 p.c. would be sufficient.
If the conversion of “B” ordinaries to
ordinary shares takes place in July, 1971,
the company will receive a further sum
varying downwards from £2,125,000 to
nothing according to the then price of
the ordinary shares.
However, providing there are no
dramatic changes in current thinking on
ordinary share investment, it would seem
unlikely that the shares could fall much
below 10s. 6d. if the dividend rate is
maintained. This suggests, then, that the
company is unlikely to receive less than
the sum mentioned above.
From the interim report it would seem
that a sum of £1.5 million has been raised
by an unsecured note issue at 7 p.c. and
presumably £400,000 was called in
January on the “B” deferreds. However,
“Secured Creditors” and “Redeemable
Notes” due before June 30, 1964,
totalled £1,529,704 in the June, 1963,
balance sheet and, in addition, there were
“Deposits fixed term and at call” of
£1,727,100 due before the same date.
Total deposits were nearly £3.6 million
and presumably about £2.9 million was
raised during the 1962-63 year, but £1.2
million had durations of seven years or
more.
One feature worth noting is the growth
in the prior charges against profits avail-
able. Perhaps this is best expressed in
the familiar form of the number of times
these charges are covered.
Year to
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Times
covered 10.4 7.3 4.4 5.1 4.4
The present coverage is, of course,
adequate by any standards and will
improve automatically as the convertible
notes are converted into ordinary shares
and £211,000 of interest is eliminated.
While the figures can only be fairly
rough because the actual dates when loan
capital was raised are not known, it is
interesting to note that the average cost
of loan capital seems to have declined
steadily as follows:
Year 1959/60 ’6O/61 ’6l/62 ’62/63
6.9% 6.6% 6.2% 6.0%
According to Note 14 to the June,
1963, accounts, liabilities of £2.3 million
had been incurred under contracts of
capital expenditure. On the face of it,
the group will not need to raise further
funds to meet this expenditure, since
retained income (depreciation plus un-
distributed profits) totalled nearly £1.7
million in 1962/63 and slightly more
than this amount in 1961/62.
Nevertheless, despite all these optimis-
tic signs, one cannot deny that profit-
ability has been declining since 1957/58
and apart from a slight rally in 1961/62
this decline has been steady. Although
this condition has no doubt been aggra-
vated by the fact that some assets have
not been income producing, the total
amount of these assets (say £1.5 million
in the oil lubricating refinery, and less
than £0.5 million in oil exploration)
does not seem large enough to have any
real effect on the overall pattern.
major investments in the five year
period have been in Hardie Rubber
(about £6.6 million) and in ocean vessels
(about £2.8 million). Could it be that
these investments have not made the
contribution that was originally ex-
pected?
Among the 31,000 shareholders there
must be some who wish that they had
had the opportunity of accepting
Ampol’s offer of 20s. cash for each of
their shares in June, 1960. This offer
would be equivalent to 17s. 3d. for each
of today’s shares. At this price, the
dividend yield would be 3.6 p.c. and the
earnings yield only 3.2 p.c. (after allow-
ing for convertible notes and the in-
dicated fall in earnings from last year’s
figure).
On current trends it will take many
years for the shares to reach 17s. 3d. and
at 10s. Bd. they are perhaps only of
interest to those investors who seek a
steady return on their investment.


ACCOUNTS SUMMARY
(£'000)
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
Lamson Paragon
Lamson
Industries
Ltd
Industries
(October 31)
(Dece
mber
31)
Current assets
1351
1476
1669
2620
2648
Less current liabilities
462
641
818
1011
1062
Working capital
889
835
851
1609
1586
Fixed assets
1337
1454
1561
2036
2103
Intangibles
736
726
731
105
134
2962
3015
3143
3750
3823
Loan capital
599
563
557
119
138
Outside interests
203
209
219
317
320
Ordinary capital
1419
1419
1439
2686
2686
Reserves
741
824
928
628
679
2962
3015
3143
3750
3823
Depreciation
58
68
79
119
123
Taxation
108
134
128
226
198
Net profit
172
222
189
303
283
Dividend
114
128
130
205
242
Surplus
58
94
59
98
41
Earning rate
12.1
15.6
13.1
(a)
10.5
Dividend rate
8
9
9
9(b)
9
Dividend yield (c)
4.6
5.0
4.3
4.5
—
Price/earnings
ratio (c)
14.5
11.5
14.5
(a)
—
High price (d)
19/7
20/-
17/-
24/6
27/6
Low price (d)
13/5
15/6
15/9
19/6
20/9
(a) Not appropriate.
(b)
Includ
ing 3
p.c.
paid
by Lamson Paragon
Industries
Ltd. (c) End of
March, month accounts presented
(d) Calendar
year.
McKinley wilson & co.
AJAX HOUSE, 105 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE.
J. GORDON M. MOFFATT
CHRISTOPHER R. HOWLETT
LAWRENCE G. VINEY
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
OF MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE: 67-8701, 67-8044 (14 lines)
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Lamson’s Part in Decimal Coinage
“Full effect cannot yet be determined ”
ITtHE Commonwealth Government’s
decision to decimalise the currency
will result in “very great demands being
made on the management and technical
resources of this company, and the full
effect of this decision cannot as yet be
determined,” the chairman of Lamson
Industries Australia Ltd told sharehold-
ers at the recent annual meeting.
The business originated 67 years ago
when Lamson Paragon Supply Co. of
Australasia Ltd obtained from Lamson
Paragon Supply Co. of England the
rights to use certain patents for the
manufacture of business stationery.
In June, 1962, the Australian interests
of the English company, then known as
Lamson Industries Ltd, were merged
with the Australian company then known
as Lamson Paragon Industries Ltd.
The Australian interests of the English
company which were merged were
Lamson Engineering Co. Ltd (which
marketed air tube systems, internal
phone systems, automatic pallet loaders,
ventilation and dust extraction plant and
industrial vacuum cleaners) and Control
Systems (A’sia) Holdings Ltd (which
marketed adding and calculating
machines, tickets and ticket issuing
machines, totalisators and taximeters).
In the process of the merger, Lamson
Engineering and Control Systems re-
ceived 1,629,760 10s. shares in the new
holding company, and shareholders and
noteholders of the old Australian com-
pany received two 10s. shares in the
holding company plus 20s. cash for
every three 10s. shares formerly held.
The English company provided the
cash portion of this deal by subscribing
to 1,247,870 10s. shares in the holding
company at 10s. premium. It also
received 111,111 shares as settlement for
£lOO,OOO owing on current buying
account.
Accounts were drawn up to December
31, 1962, covering results of the sub-
sidiaries for varying periods, but in the
main 14 months. Results for the year to
December 31, 1963, therefore, are not
comparable.
The net profit from 1963 trading was
£282,866 excluding a capital profit of
£2404, and after charging £198,075
for tax and £123,212 for depreciation.
Earning rate is an unexceptional' 10.5
p.c., and dividend again 9 p.c.
The chairman thus confined himself
to commenting on progress of the various
subsidiaries in 1963. The business form
market was still keenly competitive,
requiring close attention to costs and
overheads.
Turnover and profit of Lamson Para-
gon Industries Ltd grew despite disrup-
tion with reconstitution of one of the
plants.
Lamson of London negotiated a
closer association with Moore Corpora-
tion, the largest business forms company
in North America, so that the Aus-
tralian company will have access to
vital information on the more sophis-
ticated products now being asked for
by Australian industry.
Lamson Engineering improved profit
although rising costs for imported raw
materials and a temporary decline in
commercial building, especially in Vic-
toria, made the year difficult. This sub-
sidiary is reducing its reliance on im-
ported materials, and it expects the
building lag to disappear in 1964.
Control Systems sold more office
machines and systems, but higher costs
and the non-availability of new pro-
ducts caused a fall in profit. The world's
first electronic desk computer, Anita,
has arrived, and in the second half of
the year an extra new product is ex-
pected from the Roneo Neopost Com-
pany.
Turnover of the Totalisator Division
was down, due to heavy rain cancelling
racing fixtures in NSW.
Caribonum Australia Pty earned
record profits from the manufacture and
sale of carbon papers in 1963.
The Roneo Company (Melbourne)
Pty held sales and profits from the
marketing of duplicating and office
equipment.
Directors consider group debtors of
£964,280 are higher than would be pre-
ferred. Although sales have expanded,
some buyers are taking longer than 30
days to pay. Stocks of £1,608,238 are
considered necessary for the amount of
sales.
Australian industry has two more
years in which to equip itself for deci-
malisation of the currency. Undoubtedly
Lamson for one will be extraordinarily
busy, but its operating costs also will
presumably be considerably increased,
too, so that it is debatable whether the
extra business will bring a commen-
surate lift in profit.
The large English ownership provides
stability for the stock the shares are
not likely to fall below the 20s. which
that company paid in 1962 limiting
the availability of shares to the Aus-
tralian investing public.
An income return of 3.4 p.c. and
earnings yield of 4 p.c. makes the
10s. shares at 265. 3d. relatively unin-
viting anyhow, although last year when
the market had little information of
an annual earning capacity to work on,
the shares did touch 275. 6d.


ACCOUNTS
SUMMARY
(£'000)
June 30
1961
1962
1963
Current assets
187
186
340
Less current liabilities
89
1Q0
168
Working capital
93
86
172
Fixed assets
102
154
295
Intangibles
43
42
—
243
282
467
Deferred liabilities
5
Ordinary capital
200
200
290
Reserves
43
82
172
243
282
467
Depreciation
7
9
16
Taxation
44
48
54
Net profit
66
71
87
Dividend
25
30
44
Surplus
41
41
43
Earning rate
33.1
35.4
30.0
Dividend rate
124
15
15
Dividend- yield (a)
6.0
4.0
4.1
Price/earnings ratio (a)
6.0
9.5
8.2
High price (b)
11/9
20/4
21/6
Low price (b)
6/10
11/8
16/6
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar vear.
DURAL LEEDS HOLDINGS LTD
Company That’s Going Places
A one-for-ten bonus is a nice little
perquisite for shareholders of a
three-year-old Melbourne public com-
pany, Dural Leeds Holdings Ltd.
Maintenance of a high earning rate
of over 30 p.c. in each of the last three
years on capital increased by issues to
acquire other companies, made the
bonus possible.
Dural Leeds Holdings originated with
the merger in 1960 of Dural Leeds Pty,
which began making Venetian and hol-
land roller blinds in 1947, and F. C.
Stewart Pty Ltd, its largest competitor,
which had been trading in Victoria, Tas-
mania and south-western NSW since
1945.
Manufacturing was consolidated at
Niddrie on the Calder Highway out of
Melbourne, and facilities ha-ve been pro-
gressively expanded.
Production and distribution now cover
these “home improvement” products:—■
Canvas awnings, Luxaflex Venetian
blinds, Woodweev drapes and blinds,
Koolshade screens, Luxaflex rigid and
roll-up awnings and insect screens and
doors, curtain and drapery hardware,
cornice boxes, industrial canvas, tents,
wading pools and water bags.
In 1958 the proprietary company
had bought the Venetian and roller blind
business of J. Gadsden Ltd, and in a
similar move in April, 1963, stocks and
manufacturing facilities of Myer’s blind
and awning factory were purchased for
cash and the assets transferred to
Niddrie.
The year to June, 1963, was a busy
one of expansion into neighbouring
States. The company acquired the assets
of M. T. Brodribb Pty of Hobart and
the business of Flavel and Sons of Adel-
aide in December, 1962, and March,
1963, respectively. Each was the biggest
blind, awning and screen maker in its
State.
Capital was increased over the year
to June 30 by £90,000 to £290,000,
and in December, 1963, a further
200.000 ss. shares were issued to pur-
chase Eise and Mitchell Pty which has
two engineering plants at Huntingda-le
(Vic.).
The new acquisition should supple-
ment Dural Leeds’ traditionally seasonal
business, operating as a tube-bending
engineer and manufacturer of copper
traps and bends for the plumbing indus-
try. Dural Leeds believes, from market
survey information, that Eise and Mit-
chell products are capable of growth.
Profit for the year to June 30, 1963,
rose from £70,879 to £87,012 after pro-
viding £54,364 (1962 £47,750) for tax
and £16,107 (£8,864) for depreciation.
On the higher capital, earning rate re-
treated from 35.4 p.c. to 30 p.c. but
still gave double cover for the steady
15 p.c. dividend.
Earnings for the first half of 1963-64
(usually the better half) were £90,000,
or more than for the whole of the pre-
vious year, and no doubt it was this
buoyancy which prompted directors to
the generosity of a bonus.
The bonus should involve 146,000 ss.
shares and together with an issue of
40,000 shares at par as a basis for
establishing a superannuation fund for
employees, should bring paid capital to
£384,000.
Directors are so confident that they not
only predict maintenance of last year’s
15 p.c. dividend rate but also expect to
equal last year’s earning rate on the en-
larged capital.
Books close on April 3 for the bonus,
so recent price of around 255. 3d. gives
an ex-bonus price of 235. to yield
3.3 p.c. in income and 6.5 p.c. on earn-
ings.
The company is obviously going
places, but there is a danger, particularly
when capital is small, for investors’ en-
thusiasm to get a little out of bounds.
Present price is probably quite high
enough.
MANGROVITE INDUSTRIES LTD
Best Hope is a Takeover
is little evidence of any recent
A development or growth in the business
of Mangrovite Industries Ltd, founded
by Mr Charles Ludowici in 1917 to
manufacture leather beltings.
In 1928 the profit was £9065 and the
trading result just announced for 1963
was £13,807. In between times the best
profit was £20,703 in 1954.
Dividend has fallen away from 15 p.c.
in that peak year to 5 p.c. for the last
two.
The company makes belting, leather
and rubber hydraulic packings and oil
seals, leather industrial gloves, gear-
boxes, geared motors, “Kopp” variable
speed units, coil winding machines, con-
veyors and materials handling equipment,,
all sorts of transmission requirements,
and rubber mouldings.
In March, 1963, the company admitted
demand in 1962 had fallen for many
lines on which it traditionally relied and
development of new ones had created
problems. Leather has proved to be a
dying trade.
The year 1963 was apparently equally
difficult. A disastrous fire in Croydon
Rubber Mills Pty Ltd meant that, despite
a profit in the second half of the year,
the net loss for the 18 months to Decem-
ber 31 was £1455. (Balance date of
this subsidiary was changed.)
The New Zealand manufacturing and
trading subsidiary, too, incurred a loss.
Directors expect this and Croydon
Rubber to be profitable in 1964.
The latest profit, quoted above, ex-


ACCOUNTS SUMMARY
(£'000)
December 31
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
Current assets
169
175
239
227
247
Less current liabilities 71
79
130
140
171
Working capital
98
96
109
87
76
Fixed assets
220
222
220
225
241
Intangibles
2
1
11
13
8
320
319
340
325
325
Minority interests
22
20
19
Ordinary capital
151
151
151
151
151
Reserves
169
168
167
154
155
320
319
340
325
325
Depreciation
4
4
5
7
9
Taxation
11
6
6
5
8
Net profit
20
14
12
6
14
Dividends
15
15
11
8
8
Surplus
5
-1
1
-2
6
Earning rate
13.1
9.5
7.7
4.2
6.7
Dividend rate
10
10
7\
5
5
Dividend yield (a)
Price/earnings
7.1
7.4
6.3
7.0
ratio (a)
10.7
14.3
15.6
16.9
—
High price (b)
29/6
38/6
29/-
26/-
19/-
Low price (b)
23/9
26/-
20/-
16/-
12/6
(a) End of March,
(b) Calendar year.
month
accounts presented.
>-
1.
o
o
CL
>rS
<
ml
u
ns
<9
-J
roun
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY
t+3
o
o
o
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
Current assets
Less current
467
585
471
546
57/
liabilities
220
333
278
254
352
Working capital
247
252
193
292
225
Fixed assets
351
739
831
960
1091
Investments
—
—
—
7
5
Intangibles
32
—
—
—
—
630
991
1024
1259
1321
Deferred liabilities
175
161
237
263
Paid capital
275
342
342
428
428
Reserves
297
382
412
484
519
Unappropriated piofits
O'side s'holders
41
73
87
86
87
17
19
22
24
24
630
991
1024
1259
1321
Depreciation
25
31
49
52
59
Tax
45
58
59
41
45
Net profit
74
84
87
75
87
Dividends
34
43
43
53
53
Surplus
40
41
44
22
34
Earning rate
27.0
24.5
2.5.5
17.6
20.4
Dividend rate
12*
124
12J
12*
12*
Dividend yield (a)
5.8
4.0
4.3
3.2
3.7
High price (b)
16/3
17/-
16/5
19 7
16/6
Low price (b)
10/3
13/6
13/9
15/-
14/-
(a) End of January
(b) Calendar year.
when
results
; announced.
eludes a £721 loss on sale of fixed assets
and £2996 loss on plant destroyed by
fire. Depreciation charged was £8912
and provision for income tax £BllO.
There are no immediate liquidity
problems and the company has no long-
term obligations to creditors.
Australian freehold properties were
written up in 1950 by £66,505, and assets
of the NZ company were written up by
£15,832. A one-for-two bonus in Sep-
tember, 1955, capitalised £50,481 of the
revaluation reserve. Balance of that
account was £95,878 at December 31,
1963.
The net tangible assets backing of
about 395. 6d. per 20s. share (compared
with the market’s evaluation of the stock
at 18s.) suggests the best hope for
shareholders is a takeover bid by some
company with a good premium and
aggressive management, preferably in a
similar or related field.
J. C. Ludowici and Sons Ltd, also
located at Lane Cove, might fill the bill,
and possibly achieve some economies in
production, too.
J. C. Ludowici has been relatively
successful and its ss. shares are now
quoted around 13s. 9d. It has managed
to develop new products of synthetic
rubber and plastic as the demand for
industrial goods has declined.
But the prospects of any great rewards
for Mangrovite shareholders whether
the company stays independent or not —
are indeed slim. The stock has little
appeal to investors.
McLAREN INDUSTRIES LTD
Directors Set Rare Example
directors of McLaren Industries
A Ltd said in their annual report that
returns from shareholders’ funds were
inadequate. Admissions of this nature
are very rare and the boards of many
other public companies would do well
to follow McLaren’s example. -
In these days of huge capital reserves,
built up over the years by asset revalua-
tions and the ploughing back of surplus
profits, earning rates which are calculated
on only the paid capital are very often
not truly indicative of a company’s profit-
making capacity.
This is not to say that all companies
have a poor return from shareholders’
funds, but it would show a responsible
outlook if percentages on these were
announced as well as those calculated
on capital. In many cases, the only
value of the latter figure is to ascertain
how well the percentage dividend is
covered.
Of course, the obvious answer to this
argument is to tell inquisitive share-
holders to work out the unknown figure
for themselves. But Australian investors
are a pretty apathetic mob and only a
few would be bothered working it out.
About the only time they can be aroused
is when they read that their company is
going broke. If a percentage figure
on their funds had been available, the
failing efficiency of their company may
well have been revealed before the rot
set in.
The opinion expressed by McLaren’s
directors is even more commendable
when we consider that it threw a shadow
over their otherwise bright year to
November 30. A record £87,258 was
made, equalling 20.4 p.c. on capital, and
dividend was held at 12i p.c. for the
ninth year in succession. The return
from shareholders’ funds improved from
8.2 to 8.6 p.c. It was 10.6 in 1961 and
12.2 in 1960 on much lower funds.
The directors are “endeavoring to
improve this rate”. Their best method
of doing so would be to fully employ
the company’s productive capacity. This
was not done in 1963, although total
sales rose. Their task is made difficult
by the policy of keeping plant and
machinery up to date (£145,000 was
spent on new units in 1963) although
this same policy reduces their tax bill
considerably (£7900 in 1963) through
the Government’s plant investment allow-
ance scheme.
Through five Victorian subsidiaries the
group operates as a packaging specialist,
a letterpress and lithographic printer, a
manufacturer of pasteboards, pasted
manilla boards and paper bags, and also
as a designer and distributor of greeting
cards and novelty packages. The Sydney
subsidiary, Lawley & Housego, manu-
factures cardboard boxes and cartons
and also operates as a letterpress and
lithographic printer.
The latest accounts show a continu-
ance of the growth in fixed assets which
has been a feature since 1960. The 1963
figure is more than three times that of
1959. This growth reflects the up-to-
date policy of directors and is one reason
why the company has fared well in recent
years.
Although the working capital position
has weakened since 1962, it is still healthy
enough not to warrant any concern. The
main reason for the big current liability
jump was the conversion of a £2912
bank balance to a £135,594 overdraft.
About £66,000 of deferred liabilities
(namely, loans on mortgage and liabilities
under hire-purchase contracts) is due
within 12 months. Last year’s figure of
£50,000 was met quite easily, so no
problems should arise this year.
In general, shareholders can expect
another steady year of growth. The
possibility of an outstanding success or
a resounding setback are equally remote.
For this reason the shares are fairly
steadily priced at around 3 ss. 6d. yield-
ing 4.2 p.c.
There is a far off-chance that a bonus
issue could be made some time in the
future if we regard as significant the
heavy margin which reserves have over
paid capital. The last capital move was
in 1961-62 when a one-for-four cash
issue was made at a 2s. 6d. premium. For
the move before that we must go right
back to 1954-55 when the shares were
split from 20s. to ss. and a one-for-four
bonus was issued.


ORD, MINNETT, T. J. THOMPSON
& PARTNERS
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
13-15 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONE 255711 TELEX 20243
CABLES & TELEGRAMS "ORDERLEY”
SYDNEY• MELBOURNE* CANBERRA. BRISBANE
OM3I
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
“The Wales” and
Mr Randerson
Sir,
When one argues from self-interest,
one is often far from objective, and this
is certainly the case with Roger Rander-
son’s recent article (Bulletin, 14/3/64).
The main theme of the article seems to
revolve around the 20 p.c. earning rate
of “the Wales” in 1927, and the fact
that only 1 8.1 p.c. was earned last year,
with lower rates in the interim. Mr
Randerson seizes the opportunity to
blast the Reserve Bank and the Com-
monwealth Banking Corporation, and,
by doing so, leaves himself wide open
for the “count” by expressing a series
of misapprehensions and an almost com-
plete lack of economic understanding.
The Reserve Bank comes in for the
most criticism and its Charter is well
enough known to avoid the necessity to
quote it at this juncture. Suffice it to
say that the main way the Reserve Bank
can make progress towards stability of
the currency is by the Statutory Reserve
Deposit procedure. Mr Randerson seems
to be saying that since the hire-purchase
companies and other financial institutions
cannot be controlled in the way the
banks are, controls should be lifted
from the banking system.
This, of course, is tantamount to
courting disaster and the obvious plan
should be to devise a breakthrough of
the Constitutional barrier to bring the
fringe institutions under the control of
monetary policy. It must be borne in
mind also that banks are the only in-
stitutions which are able to create credit
and so demand some measure of control
over their activities.
Mr Randerson feels that the recent
increases in the percentages of deposits
being called as Statutory Reserve
Deposits were not necessary to preserve
monetary stability. The question may
be asked: “When should the Reserve
Bank make these calls?” Presumably
they should not be started only when
inflation is already rife. The best time
is when liquidity is dangerously high, a
time when a sudden change in con-
fidence can result in large increases in
private investment, thereby exerting
pressure on our resources. That time
has been the recent past and the present,
and, no doubt, the near future.
Of course, our export earnings have
contributed greatly to the present
liquidity position and the fact that the
Reserve Bank takes control of our gold
and international reserves in no way
prevents the banks from lending funds
obtained from foreign business except
in so far as part of these funds are
called as Statutory Reserve Deposits.
A major point conveniently over-
looked by Mr Randerson is that the
Commonwealth Banking Corporation is
subject to just the same controls as are
all the other banks with respect to the
Statutory Reserve Deposit procedure.
As regards the Reserve Banks’ profits
I would suggest that Mr Randerson
obtain the latest report of the Central
Bank and he would find that the major
portion of its “monstrous” profits came
from the activities of the Note Issue
Department.
Mr Randerson objects to the state-
ment that the Commonwealth Banking
Corporation has developed “by the wish
and support of the Australian people”
and quotes the growth of the Wales
Savings Bank to support his contention.
One is really surprised that the Wales
Savings Bank has not grown faster than
it has, with its huge number of trading
bank customers on tap. A year-to-year
check reveals that the depositors’ balances
of the CSB have never fallen, but that
the growth in these balances has been
slowed somewhat. Even this trend is
rapidly being overcome and the CSB
last year recorded one of the largest
absolute increases yet in its depositors’
balances.
Alternatively, one might say that the
phenomenal growth of the CTB does
represent the “wish and support of the
people”, especially as this growth has
occurred only since 1945, and has con-
tinued since separation in 1959.
I cannot understand the contention
that the growth of the Commonwealth
Banking Corporation has caused inflation.
As mentioned earlier, this institution is
subject to exactly the same controls as
the other banks.
Finally, the growth of the “fringe”
institutions has been a logical develop-
ment of the Australian monetary in-
stitutional set-up as our economy gained
greater maturity. The private banks
have adjusted themselves famously,
realising that here is a lucrative field
unfettered by monetary restrictions.
After all, when credit becomes harder
to obtain from the banks presumably
the hire-purchase companies have a
bonanza and one*s heart can scarcely
bleed for shareholders in the banking
business under such circumstances.
A. V. BAUMGART
Coorparoo (Qld).
" The Wonder Bull
Was a Flop”
Sir,
Your article “The Wonder Bull was a
Flop” (Bulletin, March 28) is aptly
headed. But what is your correspon-
dent’s definition of Bull? He suggests
that the performance testers should be
performance tested because Banchory
Wonder failed in the astronomical bull-
price race.
Performance testing is simply-a method
of measuring value of an object by its
results. This is the case whether the
object be the scientist himself, reac-
tionary journalism or an animal.
In the case of a stud bull, the final
result is often price in the ring. To per-
formance test for this result you should
look at the efficiency of the public rela-
tions and advertising of that stud to
motivate desire for publicity in another
stud. Secondly, you could look at out-
put of the stud and perhaps measure
efficiency of conversion of so many
cows’ milk to one show-ring bull.
In the case of a bull for commercial
purposes, final results are different. These
are the ability of the bull to produce
more calves than another, in a particular
locality, and for those calves to be better
growers and calf producers themselves.
The only way to measure this calls for
the simple techniques of being able to
count and read weight scales.
After all it is numbers turned off and
weight on the hook that count at pre-
sent. Perhaps some day (the sooner the
better) quality in terms of taste and
texture will be measured as well.
Of course, there is no point in per-
formance testing show-ring bulls because
the present defunct system and ideas will
be, or have been, replaced.
FABIAN SWEENEY
Canberra, ACT.
Sir,
The recent article “The Wonder Bull
was a Flop" (28/3/64) shows that the
writer has no conception of the idea
behind progeny testing. From the in-
formation presented in the article I con-
clude that some lucky cattle breeder in-
vested the best spent 130 gns that he
ever owned.
The purchaser of that bull should
breed rapid growing and highly efficient
animals from the results of the sire’s
performance tests. In fact, one is
tempted to say that he was probably th
only buyer who got his money’s worth
at the sale.
M. E. BOURKE
7V angle (NSW).


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Record Exports of Fruit
to Europe
But there are catches in it
Tn the export season that has just begun,
a fleet of 84 ships will carry a record
9,250,000 cases of apples and pears from
Australia to Europe. Of them, 4.4 mil-
lion boxes of apples and nearly one
million of pears will go to Britain and
the remainder to the Continent.
Australia has sent more pears to these
destinations before, but never so many
apples. The total is H million cases more
than last year's record of 7f million and
represents all but a dribble of the coun-
try's apple and pear exports.
The increase follows a season in
which Australian apples received more
criticism from European customers than
ever before notably Sweden, which
complained about the disorder known as
bitter pit, and Germany, whose objections
centred on over-ripeness.
The year before, British importers
claimed they had lost so heavily on Aus-
tralian pears that orders would shrink.
And competition from Australia’s South-
ern Hemisphere rivals, who have not
been guilty of these shortcomings, has all
the while been stiffening.
How can Australia defy these factors?
One answer is the condition of the
Continental market, in which the failure
of the Argentine’s apple crop has left a
hole just when Australia needed it. This
lapse by Australia's chief rival on the
Continent made room for larger consign-
ments to Sweden and Germany.
Sweden, Australia's third biggest apple
customer and the country that suffered
most from bitter pit in Cleopatra and
Granny Smith varieties last year, has been
to a large extent placated by the Aus-
tralian Apple and Pear Board’s willing-
ness to compensate for losses and the
actions taken by the industry to safeguard
quality in future.
T AST year the board paid ad hoc com-
pensation on claims made against
Australian exporters by Swedish im-
porters who could prove their grievances,
and this year it has a proper compensa-
tion scheme ready to operate should the
need arise.
But no one wants it to arise. In the
orchards, bitter pit is being fought with
calcium sprays and later harvesting, and
Departments of Agriculture are tighten-
ing up on inspections of fruit.
On the face of it, the size of this year’s
export suggests a recovery from the harm
done to the reputation of Australia's fruit
last year, but marketing authorities know
this is not so. But for the collapse of
Argentinian supplies the figures would
tell a less happy story.
Sweden and Germany have been im-
pressed by Australia’s efforts to atone,
but still have doubts, and it is only the
South American failure that obscures
them.
For this reason, 1964 will be a year of
test. If the fruit that is flowing to Europe
in larger volume than ever before is clean
and sound, the confidence of importers
should be restored.
The fruit on which most will depend
is the Cleopatra apple, which comes
mainly from Tasmania, Western Austra-
lia and South Australia and the harves-
ting of which will continue until about
the end of April.
Germany is the clearing-house for fruit
on the Continent. Australia expects to
deliver to it about 1.8 million cases of
apples this year, compared with last
year’s 1.6 million. About half the fruit
that arrives in Europe is sold forward,
the other half being shipped on free con-
signment or guaranteed advance.
While pears, despite the forebodings
of buyers two years ago, have almost
doubled in quantity on the British mar-
ket, apples have remained fairly static,
but Australian officials believe the mar-
ket is far from saturated.
Britain is still less fruit-minded than
the rest of Europe, each Briton averaging
many fewer mouthfuls of apples and
pears a year than his brothers across the
Channel. Further exploitation of this
market, however, must be gradual, for
too large an increase in any one year
could defeat the object by depressing
prices.
With competition from the Argentine
crop failures apart strengthening
every year and the Continent offering less
scope for development than the UK, Aus-
tralia is putting much effort into promo-
tion on the British market. The British,
with a diet consisting largely of starch,
still rank fruit as a semi-luxury, so Aus-
tralian officials are trying to promote
apples as a habit.
They recently adopted a slogan that
will henceforth accompany every bit of
apple publicity in the U.K.: “End a meal
with an apple it’s Nature’s tooth-
brush”. This promotion is being con-
ducted jointly with New Zealand and
South Africa in a union known as
SANZA.
A vehicle that has just been designed
for it is a poster depicting 12 pop singers
around a border that encloses the words,
scrawled roughly on an apple, “Join the
apple club”. There is also a smaller poster
featuring the Beatles and delivering the
slogan message.
VLTithin the next month, Australian
"" trade officials hope to get the posters
into every one of Britain’s 400,000 retail
shops and every school and dental
surgery.
One of Australia’s greatest assets in
its bid to promote these fruits is the sup-
port of the British Dental Association
and the British Dental Council, both of
whom are distributing apple and pear
publicity with their names on it.
Their support is backed by recent
experiments in which British school
children who had eaten cakes and other
mushy foods were given two ways of
cleaning their teeth —brush and paste,
and apples. The brush and paste users
got a cleanliness quotient of 50 per cent
while the apple eaters scored 90 per cent.
The dentists’ only reservation is their
reluctance to publicise the comparison
between brush and apple on the grounds
that not all children can afford to buy
fruit, but in their surgeries they are ad-
vocating apples wherever discretion lets
them.
All over Britain, apples and pears are
included in trade displays staged in con-
junction with multiple retail stores and
the industry’s public relations people feed
a stream of editorial material and recipes
to the public.
It is hard to measure the effect of all
this on an unbranded product, but those
close to the scene claim they can feel
what is happening in terms of quantities
and prices, and they know that in the
past few years the volume of Australian
apples and pears on the British market
has risen steadily without any sacrifice
in price. Indeed, during this time prices
have crept up.
But not everything in the garden is


lovely. Europe’s own production of
apples and pears is rising steeply, and
the past four years have seen shipments
from the four Southern Hemisphere sup-
pliers, Australia, South Africa, the
Argentine and New Zealand, increased
by seven million cases—almost as much
as Australia's total exports today.
While the Argentine is Australia’s
keenest rival on the Continent, in Britain
it is South Africa—which, unlike the
Argentine, can operate on the same
terms as Australia because of the United
Kingdom's global quota arrangements.
In both zones, the answer to the threat
facing Australia's pome fruits is quality.
Its rivals have gone far in pursuit of it
and Australia is trying to keep up.
Probably what is doing most to lift
quality today is the adoption of fibre-
board cartons in place of the wooden
boxes that have always been used. Aus-
tralia last year shipped a million bushels
of apples in the new type of container
and will this season ship two million.
thing about fibre-board cartons is
■*" that they need pre-cooling because
they insulate rather than ventilate. Al-
though South Africa and New Zealand
pre-cool every case they send to Britain,
the economics of Australian production
have not so far enabled more than half
of its exports to be treated in this way.
But the board appreciates the value
of pre-cooling and the superior packing
that goes with it, and is trying to encou-
rage the industry eventually to achieve
it 100 per cent.
The Australian Apple and Pear Board
has also done much to secure improve-
ments in shipping facilities and handling
at docksides. The board is reported to be
satisfied that this season’s jump in ex-
ports will not mean a lowering of ship-
ping standards, because most of the ad-
ditional vessels are good refrigerated
ships from the Argentinian run.
Dockside handling of fruit is still
rougher in Britain than Australian offi-
cials would like, and certainly worse than
at Continental ports. To combat this,
Australia, New Zealand, Canada and
South Africa recently united to produce
a film designed to show stevedores how
to handle fruit gently.
The film handles the stevedores gently,
too, for it would have the wrong effect
if it set out to preach. It takes -the form
of a musical cartoon with the message
thickly coated in humor. The dockers’
union has promised to show it to every
member.
Whether all these measures exceed the
challenge is a question that has yet to be
answered. If they don’t, this year’s
record export figure may stand for all
time.
Mysterious Disease Killing
Millions of Trees
Red Gums , Box and Iron Bark suffer most
Tf you propose to chop down a shade
tree in suburbia irate citizens will
write to the papers, local members of
Parliament will be petitioned and the
fate of that tree will become a matter of
deep public concern.
Highways have been known to be re-
routed because a tree or trees were
threatened.
But when thousands, nay millions, of
trees start dying for no apparent reason
all the way from the southern part of
South Australia to Queensland there is
no public outcry or even an indication
of public awareness that such a thing
can happen.
Perhaps the enormity of the situation
is such that the average mind fails to
grasp it.
Whatever the reason, the fact is that
trees are dying and the only people
interested in doing much about it are
the small group of specialists in ento-
mology (insects) attached to the CSIRO
and the State forestry services.
As with the majority of scientists most
of these people are reticent about their
work and are not given to making alarm-
ing statements. But the chairman of the
Forests Commission of Victoria, Mr
A. O. Lawrence, says the situation is so
bad that “the majority of the native
trees retained for shelter will be lost un-
less remedial measures are taken soon”.
There is, he says, “a steady mortality
of trees on open pastures and, to a less
extent, along roadsides”.
death of the trees is not, let it be
A noted, in forest areas. It is in those
grazing and farming areas, cleared for
perhaps a hundred years, where stands
of timber were left for shelter.
Shelter, as any farmer knows, is more
than just an added attraction to the ap-
pearances of a property. Trees that pro-
vide shelter from the sun, wind and
frosts have a practical as well as a
humane purpose. Sheltered animals
thrive better and grow better wool, mut-
ton and beef.
The death of trees is confined to
native types. It is becoming widespread
throughout the south-eastern corner of
the continent and the types suffering
most are Box, Red Gum and Iron Bark.
The experts agree that it is an insect
problem. But just what insects, and in
what numbers, is not known. Probably
there is no single insect causing the
trouble, but a whole range of them which
comes under the general heading of leaf-
eaters.
Several different species may be affec-
ting the trees, either concurrently or suc-
cessively, throughout the whole of the
spring and summer until their vitality is
sapped and they die.
Isolation, or comparative isolation,
worsens the attacks. In a forest the
insects would be dispersed. Where only
a few trees remain, perhaps one or two
magnificent old Red Gums, the myriads
of insects descend on these trees because
they are all that are available.
Also many of these trees are now in
the latter part of their life. The older
the tree the less chance of recovery.
Some interesting theories have been
advanced by the experts . . .
• The unusual run of good seasons
has encouraged insects to breed in pro-
fusion.
• The absence of droughts for 20
years has removed a natural control of
insects.
• The increase of pasture improve-
ment has provided attractive breeding
grounds for insects.
• Use of chemical sprays to remove
insect troubles in pastures has also re-
moved natural insect and birdlife enemies
of the leaf-eaters.
These are, at this stage, little more
than theories. What is definitely estab-
lished is that the leaf-eaters can be con-
trolled by spraying, but that, generally
speaking, it is too expensive and difficult
for farmers to get serious about.
Mr Lawrence has pointed out that at
present the only way to spray a big tree
properly is to use the expensive method
of aerial spraying.
The farm machinery trade has yet to
come up with a jet spray of sufficient
power and cheapness to be used effec-
tively from the ground.
Many farmers, he says, should start
planning now to replace their native
shelter trees with the right types of
Cypress and other imported trees suit-
able for shelter belts.
Dr P. B. Carne, of the Division of
Entomology of the CSIRO in Canberra,
is currently undertaking an extensive
survey of the insect problems related to
the woodland (i.e., other than forest
trees) in NSW and Victoria.
He has much ground to cover and it
is interesting to note his statement that
one of his problems is, in many districts,
the almost complete indifference of the
landholders whose trees are soon to die.


Why see
only LondonP
Your ticket on SAS enables you
to visit many more exciting
cities on the Continent at no
extra fare. From wonderful Co-
penhagen, SAS flights extend
to more cities in Europe than
any other Inter-Continental
Airline.
m
In fact SAS serves 70 cities
... in 39 countries ... on 5
continents. Be modern
fly SAS world-wide.
7
.
SC4/VOJ/V/11/M0 AIMIMEf SYSr&H
General Sales Agents in Australia:
Wilh. Wilhelmsen Agency Pty. Ltd.,
N.S.W. and Victoria.
All other States: Trans-Australia Airlines
New Zealand: All TEAL Offices.
013-1
Revolution in Wheat Farming
No bags within five years
A revolution in farming methods, as
complete in its way as the change-
over from horses to tractors, is going on
at a steady pace throughout the wheat
country of Australia.
This is the conversion to bulk hand-
ling. It is particularly noticeable in Vic-
toria where 93 per cent of the last har-
vest was handled in bulk compared with
3 per cent five years ago. But the other
States are not far behind.
It seems safe to say that within five
years bags will have disappeared alto-
gether and those stalwart country lads
who learn to throw a cricket ball by
“heaving a bag of wheat across the
Murray” will have to find some other
form of practice.
What goes for wheat will follow for
oats and barley. Superphosphate also
seems likely to be handled increasingly
in bulk.
The secret of the conversion to bulk
handling is the portable auger which is
both reliable and cheap.
The large seaboard terminals for
wheat and the other grains, of course,
have been using bulk methods for years.
Bagged wheat has not been stowed in
ships since the days of sail. But on the
farm the wheat was always bagged until
the advent of the portable auger.
Operating on the same principle as the
water drill of Biblical times, the smallest
portable auger can shift wheat at a rate
of ten bags a minute, or 40 tons an
hour. It is powered by a lightweight
motor similar to those in a motor lawn-
mower. Cost is under £2OO.
There are other more powerful types,
some operating on the conveyor belt
principle. At railway sidings electric
motors are often utilised.
way the harvest works these days
is as follows: The header takes the
grain off and deposits it in a bin mounted
on a truck, which then takes it straight
to the rail siding where the portable
augers transfer it direct to the larger
holding bin, or even straight into the
railway trucks. With more than one
truck, or with spare bins placed strate-
gically around the property for pick up
by the truck, the header can work, if
necessary, right through the night with
a change of drivers.
The old, tedious job of filling bags,
sewing them up, and lumping them on
to wagons has gone.
In theory the operation should be a
smooth one from harvest to the sea-
board. But problems have arisen. The
railways are simply unable to move the
wheat as fast as it comes in.
Nevertheless, it is claimed —and there
is little reason to doubt it —that the Aus-
tralian wheat harvest is moved faster and
at less cost than any in the world.
The bottlenecks which exist will be
sorted out in time, provided the Red
China market holds up and there is a
need for all the wheat that is being
grown now.
Wheatgrowers at the first ever “Bulk
Handling Review” at Bendigo recently
told of as many as 150 motor trucks
lined up at 5 a.m. waiting to disgorge
their wheat into the holding storages at
Dunolly and Murtoa.
These two mammoth storages (approx.
21 million bushels) hold the bulk of the
Wimmera and Mallee wheat until the
railways can move it to the shipping
silos at Geelong.
The veteran chairman of Victoria’s
Grain Elevators Board, Mr H. Glowrey,
a man with a world-wide reputation in
his field, told the assembled growers that
“if Dunolly and Murtoa are blown away
by the wind, we would be unlikely to
rebuild them.” This was a reference to
the makeshift character of these inland
storages which were built during the war
as a temporary measure and have been
chock full ever since.
trend will be towards a series of
smaller “million bushel” bins located
along the rail routes throughout the
wheat country and this method, in
principle, is being adopted by other States
also. “Short haul” storages within reach
of the farm on which the wheat is grown
are considered the answer to the problem.
Unlike the United States and Canada,
where farmers provide their own storages
on the farm itself, wheatgrowers in Aus-
tralia generally regard this method with
disfavor. The biggest disadvantage is
that these days the countries which take
our wheat—and this includes Red China
particularly—impose quite definite quali-
fications on freedom from foreign matter
(thistles etc) and moisture content of the
wheat.
With hundreds, even thousands, of
farmer-operated storage bins the dangers
of wheat failing in these requirements
would be magnified.
It seems logical that the railway
systems should provide bigger trucks
specially designed for the bulk carrying
of wheat and, in time, this will probably
happen.
But the day is not just around the
corner, unfortunately. The NSW rail-
ways have shown a lead by designing a
number of bulk carriers, and pressure is
being applied to the Victorian Railways


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: WILLIAM BASIL MORRISON, late of 61
Abercrombie Street, Redfern. TAKE NOTICE
that DOREEN MORRISON has filed a Petition
for Divorce (No. 1816 of 1960) on the ground
of desertion for 3 years and upwards and is
asking for the exercise of the Court’s dis-
cretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-1957. If you
wish to defend you may enter an Appearance
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 22nd
day of May, 1964, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, New South Wales. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: ARTUR ERNST SCHLICHTING, late of
Villawood Hostel. TAKE NOTICE that ELZA
MAGDALENA SCHLICHTING has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 590 of 1964 on the
grounds of desertion and separation. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, before the 4th
May, 1964, and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from GOULD & SHAW,
Solicitors, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: ALOYSIUS AGIUS, of unknown address.
TAKE NOTICE that VIRGINIA HOPE AGIUS
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 21 of
1964 on the grounds of separation and deser-
tion. If you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the 4th day of May, 1964, and obtain a copy
of the Petition in these proceedings without
charge from CHARLES A. MORGAN & CO.,
Solicitors, 77 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: ALEXANDER (or Sandor) MOLNAR, late
of Sydney. TAKE NOTICE that GIZELLA
LILLIAN (or Lilly)- MOLNAR has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 257 of 1964 on the
grouird of separation notwithstanding the
facts and circumstances set out in the dis-
cretion statement filed. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer at the Divorce
Registry Mint Building. Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 10th May, 1964, and
obtain a copy of the Petition and Notice of
Petition without charge from E. G. SAYEGH,
Solicitor. 133 Pitt Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
to do the same thing. But all Australian
State railways systems view with horror
the prospect of sending trucks one way
full and the other way empty. It’s simply
a matter of costs.
If bulk trucks take wheat down to the
seaboard what will they bring back?
Superphosphate is the logical answer, but
the problem here is cleaning the trucks
out properly so that no super is left to
get mixed in with the wheat.
Time is probably more important than
labor, because the peak movement of
wheat is largely compressed into that
period over the Christmas holidays and
New Year when the demand on trucks
by industry generally has slackened.
There is a challenge here for somebody
to design a bulk carrier that can be
utilised for two-way traffic and which
can be cleaned out very rapidly.
If the prices and the markets hold up,
the current boom in wheat may be just
a foretaste of what the future holds.
This country has tremendous advantages
in that Australian farmers know and
can make use of mechanisation on an
ever increasing scale, and we also have
a wheat research programme which is
the envy of other countries.
Wheat is now being grown in areas
formerly considered marginal, such as
the dry, outer fringe of the Mallee and
the western Riverina. The new vari-
eties developed by the scientists appear
to thrive in these conditions.
Wheat also is being grown success-
fully on irrigation around Deniliquin.
Formerly it was thought that irrigation
wheat would always prove too costly.
Nobody hears much about drought
these days. At Bendigo Mr Glowrey,
who has a long memory, reminded the
growers that it was 20 years since Aus-
tralia had had anything like a real
drought and it might be a good idea if
they provided themselves with some
kind of economic “cushion” against a
change in the seasons.
Few took much notice.
As one veteran grower said: “How
could you expect them to. There is
a whole generation that has grown up
in this country that does not know what
a drought is.”
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 791
ACROSS
I—A useless old horse finds approval in me. (4)
3—They classify as dry red town clothes. (10)
9—So Elspeth eats in despair. (8, 5)
11— Roofing seen about the pianissimo on the bottle. (8)
12— An act to be a beak. (4)
15— It’s game enough for the S-shaped. (7)
16— The spirit of it? (6)
17— We would reverse in some precipitation. (3)
19—Tiny me is affected by antagonism. (6)
21—Put life into one I marry. (7)
24 Some of my optic flower girl.
(4)
25 What makes me stupid as
brain centres? (8)
28— Kick an author of “Tristram
Shandy” with no contradic-
tion as orientals see it.
(2, 7,4)
29 Top of the loaf swells. (5, 5)
30— Derisive comment backed by
a top entertainer. (4)
DOWN
1— He follows mother into an
old French settlement in
India. (4)
2 Poet who might find 11-across
and 14-down useful in com-
posing a limerick about him-
self.- (7)
4 Cup Denis smashed is with-
out seasoning. (8)
5 Trim member of the bovine
family. (4)
6 One Semite is so confused as
to set out expense details,
point by point. (7)
7 One who raises retail business?
Certainly not! (10)
8— Peel confused Hampshire
mammoths. (9)
10—Grain food to give the march-
ing orders? (4)
13— Is encountered with one
infradig successor of Kemal
Ataturk. (5, 5)
14— What makes a fine young
fellow undress fish? (9)
18—Prison officer in battle array.
(8)
20—Crows nest mother using the
most economical gear. (7)
22 Ants la;, within one who
determines the elements of
a composition. (7)
23 What diverts the employer of
the morning? (6)
26 Pricy sweet? (4)
27 Wrecker of 30-across whose
career is known as a rule.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 790


9AOUM Off* uo
1
\
-
,< / Jnlsi
m
AM
*
%
r
a
MW
V
IffiSSjfc!
9fe
;
. . -. ' .■:•■: ■
A
!
MS
sm
mm
It all began with one truck nine years ago. Today, lpec moves H million ton/miles of
express freight every month ... the needs of 18,000 consignees in all States. Such has
been the growth of lpec, Australia’s largest express company.
Growth through anticipation of Industry’s requirements. For
lpec moves all types of freight. Fast, Efficiently, Economically.
AUSTRALIAN ENTERPRISE AT ITS MOST ENTERPRISING
D


•r.i*' v. *.
m
JM
'914
1 7
SMOOTH & QUIET
(and quality built to stay that way!)
Take any road. You’ll be delighted by the difference
Holden makes. Here’s a kind of going that’s smooth,
quiet, luxurious.
Just take Holden’s new engines the economy-plus T49’
or the big powerful ‘l79’. They practically abolish noise
and vibration, because they’ve both got seven-bearing
crankshafts and hydraulic valve lifters. And that luxury
Red Carpet Ride. You just can’t get a car within hundreds
of pounds that rides and handles as well as Holden. More
goes into the design of Holden, so you can be sure of
getting more out mile after mile, year after year . . .
including the best resale value when the time comes for
you to trade.
If the luxury of smooth, quiet motoring is for you, then
so is Holden! Your Holden Dealer is the man to see. And
Holden* is the car to drive . . . today!
HOLDEN
Australia's Own Car
From £BB5 plus tax
'l79’ engine £2O plus tax extra; standard on Premiers. Automatic transmission £95 plus tax extra.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S
REGD.
Cl 85
