

The Bulletin
APRIL 18, 1964
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
Australia 2/~, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1
Registered in Australia' for transmission by post as a newspaper.


The world’s finest tobacco
is at your fingertips
I
■
l
s
*
3«
Xi
c>
I
* . \
tf a
e*
t^d te
f®
9
Erv.
HI
«
'WHlttlm
■■:■¥
RGINIA
PLAIN
To know good tobacco is to love it and our team of experts know good tobacco!


National Notebook
MacAilliur
fIEW men ever caught the imagination
-*■ of this country like General Douglas
MacArthur and few men ever worked
so hard at creating a very special and
rather un-American public image, at
once flamboyant and reserved, aloof and
heroic. Despite the legion of streets,
roads and parks named after him in
Australia he was little known because
part of the magic of his personality was
keeping to himself. Tall and bulky, with
his corncob, his dark glasses and peaked,
braided cap he was frankly theatrical.
He strode rather than walked and liked
dramatic arrivals and departures. Noon-
day crowds used to gather to watch him
stride out of his HQ at Brisbane’s AMP
building, hand at the salute, for the
brief five minutes ride to his flat at
Lennon’s Hotel, where he lunched and
played games with little Arthur before
returning to work. But for all his show
he was a man of immense talents and
tough will.
A friend of ours who worked closely
with him says he w'as unforgettable.
“You either liked him or
not, for he was a great
personality. He was a wise
man, as a soldier, and you
could always talk s-nse to
him. He made you at ease
although I never saw
him drink. He and
Blarney understood and respected each
other; blit they were very different
and both very strong-willed. MacArthur
was a great talker and even his conversa-
tion had a flavor of rhetoric. Whenever I
saw him he’d sit me down in that great
room of his and walk up and down,
Puffing at his pipe, and think aloud.
Host of his thoughts were pretty sound.
Hls great talents were for long-range
strategy and for the politics of the war.
or instance, he realised before any of
us how urgent it was in New Guinea
0 get airstrips across the range on the
n °rth side where we wouldn’t be
weathered in. And yet, because he took
s° ong to go up there and get a good
00 at the problems on the ground, he
f° U .d not understand why we had to
att e our way through the Japanese.
You Australians,’ he said to me
nee, why don’t you go round the
panes e instead of butting your head
P against them all the time?’ He didn’t
L 3 lse that fighting down these defiles
L 11 wouldn't go round them. You had
|L ake them head-on every inch of the
w e l' Y et fi* s long-range insights
in H e * trao fdi nar y. I messed with him
o landia, and over breakfast the
BrVJS ? e , lef t on the Nashville for
pf “fithppines campaign he was
obviously tense. He turned to me. ‘You
know,’ he said, ‘I have one worry. The
Japs will send a fleet to stop the invasion.
I will be in terrible trouble if Halsey
can’t resist the temptation to chase the
aircraft-carriers and leave my flank un-
protected.’ As you know, Halsey did
yield to that temptation and MacArthur
was in real trouble for a while.
“He was a bonny fighter at all times.
He scrapped for men, material and
equipment and he protested every time
a division or a tank was shipped from
the US to Europe if he thought they
should have been sent to the Pacific.
But he could be generous. I think he
liked the Australians in his reserved sort
of way and if his praise was sparing it
was at least sincere. He never forgot
that it was the AIF that carried the
brunt in New Guinea and was, indeed,
responsible for initial victory. A friend
of mine was with him in Manila when
news came through that the signatories
to the Japanese surrender would be the
Big Four. On Evatt’s orders, Blarney
protested. He needn't have worried.
MacArthur had already signalled Wash-
ington that he wanted
all Pacific powers repre-
sented including France
and The Netherlands. His
reason, he said, was to
ensure that Australia
would sign first after the
Big Four and that is what
happened. ‘Did you think,’ he said to
my friend, ‘that I would ever forget
that it was the AIF which carried us
through in the early days?’
‘‘But if he was generous to us he
wasn't to the British, at whom he con-
stantly cavilled, which upset quite a few
Australians at his headquarters. ‘The
British treat you worse than they did us
before the War of Independence,’ he
said once. ‘Why do you put up with it?’
When Brookie (Alan Brooke, CIGS) sent
out General Lumsden as liaison to Mac-
Arthur’s headquarters, MacArthur didn’t
even want him in his mess, according to
another friend of mine. However, he
was shrewd enough to realise that Lums-
den was a direct pipeline to Churchill
and he changed his tune a bit, especially
as Lumsden was a very pleasant bloke.
Well, there you are, a strange man but
with all his faults a genuinely great one.”
Weather or not
as Cyclone Henrietta moved
down the Queensland coast, this
message blew in from a Bowen corre-
spondent:
It’s very entertaining in Cyclone Alley,
during the season. Most of the enter-
tainment comes from the Weather
mary McCarthy 4
“Not terribly surprised ”
•
AHOUIVD MELBOURNE ... 38
BUSINESS AND FINANCE . SO
CROSSWORD 74
EIGHTY YEARS AGO .... 8
FORUM 15
LETTERS 40
MAN ON THE LAND 72
OUT AND ABOUT 22
OVERSEAS 33
PLAIN ENGLISH 4
POETRY 46
RED PAGE 47
REVIEWS 43
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
©
Australian Ballet as a Business .. 12
Dr Benn and Mercy Killings 15
“The Representative” a Roman
Catholic Commentary 17
Shakespeare in the Outback .... 22
After Nehru What? 33
Soviet’s Economic Revolution 35
When Melbourne has 4.6 Million
People 38
The Mid-Victorians: The Glory
that Departed 47
Closer Look at Overseas Funds .. 50
Sweet Prospects for Confectioners 55
Squabble over Tractor Testing .... 72
The APPU and Wool Control .... 73
NEW ADDRESS
Editorial Office: 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 2521 Phone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088 Phone: 2 0666, Ext. 380.
Vol. SS
No. 4391


Bureau. When Dora huffed down the
coast past us, they were telling us she
was coming hours after she’d gone. So
when Gertie, our latest cyclone indicated
her presence on the sensitive altimeter
us old flying types use for a barometer,
1 decided to jot down what the Bureau
was saying.
Nine a.m. Sunday, the National news
tells us Gertie is 300 miles east of
Mackay, and 80 miles west of Willis
Island. She hadn't been christened Gertie
then, she was just a tropical depression
with two centres. Came the 12.30 news
and Gertie, who had been reported as
almost stationary at 9 a.m., had magi-
cally leaped to 300 miles east of Bowen
and 180 miles east of Cairns, a truly
staggering achievement. Twelve-forty
p.m. Sunday, Gertie was adjusted
slightly, and reported to be 350 miles
east of Bowen, not 300. But at 1.35
p.m., they moved her back to 300 miles.
Seven p.m. National news indicated that
the weather men were still pettishly
tussling over that 50 miles. Gertie was
out to 350 miles east of Bowen once
more.
Actually, we were no longer worry-
ing. We knew in our bones that she
was no longer a menace to Bowen.
Curiosity compelled us to listen to the
7.45 a.m. Monday news, though. Gertie
was 180 miles north-east of Mackay,
said they, and gale-force winds were
blowing from Bowen to St Laurence.
We looked out of our window and
could have sworn that was a nice 10
m.p.h. breeze blowing.
But at 12.30 p.m., the news told us
Gertie was back off Bowen again, 200
miles east! But, wait, the 12.45 p.m.
regional news announced she was 200
miles east of Townsville. Not to worry.
At 1.45 p.m. they had her back off
Bowen again, but the Regional, a few
minutes later, blandly announced her
as 200 miles east nor’east of Townsville.
The 6.50 Regional finally called a
truce with the State news and there was
Gertie back 200 miles east of Bowen.
“Mark my words” we told each other,
“come tomorrow, they'll get her off
Mackay and shove her out to sea.”
True! 7 a.m. Tuesday, they reckoned
Gertie was 200 miles off Mackay,
moving in a south-easterly direction, and
no one allowed her back in again.
Influence
|Tne doesn’t expect to find an actor
” quoting a philosopher as one of his
inspirations. But Harold Lang, writer,
director and lead actor of “Macbeth in
Camera”, which came to Australia for
the Adelaide Festival and has been on
tour since, cites Ludwig Witgenstein, the
eccentric Austrian genius who revolu-
tionised philosophy in England and even
partly in Australia. Lang sees what he
is trying to do in “Macbeth in Camera”,
a kind of dramatised argument about
how Shakespeare should be prepared and
performed, as the same job that Witgen-
stein set himself, getting at the real
meaning behind words. The influence
is indirect because Harold Lang only
saw Witgenstein once at a distance in
Cambridge and then he looked “a bit
of a mess”.
“For God’s sake,” he added, “don't
publish this until we’re out of town. You
know what people will think if you talk
about a philosopher.”
The Cover
TV|argot Fonteyn and Rudolf Nureyev
begin a season with the Australian
Ballet Company in Sydney on April 18.
They were photographed in London at
practice for our cover. Ballet as a
business is discussed on page 12.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Mary McCarthy on Banning “The Group”
(The following is the transcript of the TCN-Channel 9 interview with Mary McCarthy, in London, following the
Victorian ban of her book, “The Group”.)
Interviewer: “The Group” is a book
which may not be bought or sold in
the State of Victoria, Australia. I
have with me the writer of the book,
Miss Mary McCarthy. Miss Mc-
Carthy, when this book was banned
by the Victorian Government, what
was your first reaction?
McCarthy: Well, to tell the truth,
I wasn't terribly surprised.
Interviewer: Why was that?
McCarthy: Well, I had heard the
Australians generally had rather back-
ward censorship laws and so I wasn't
terribly surprised.
Interviewer: On the other hand, I
understand that the country as a
whole has a censorship board.
McCarthy: It does. The Common-
wealth of Australia has a censorship
board W'hich had passed the book,
which allowed it to enter the country.
It could not have been present in
Australia at all if it had not been
passed by this censorship board.
Interviewer: Have you any idea
how long it was from the approval
of the book by the Commonwealth
Censorship Board and the banning of
it by the State Government of Vic-
toria.
McCarthy: I’m trying to think, but
1 should think at least four months.
Interviewer: Four months?
McCarthy: Yes.
Interviewer: How in fact did you
first hear of this?
McCarthy: From a newspaper man.
Interviewer: How?
McCarthy: I live in Paris. He rang
up and said your book has been
banned in Australia. Have you any
comment?
Interviewer: For the record, what
was your comment?
McCarthy: I said I didn’t think it
w'as the author’s place to comment.
It seems to me that the hardship is
really not mainly on the author but
mainly on the people of the State of
Victoria, that is the people who are
prevented from reading any given
work. And it seems to me rather
presumptuous on the part of the
author to say my book is wonderful,
you know, you should be able to
read it, that it's the newspapers’ public
who ought to, 1 think, have the first
comment if not the last.
Interviewer: Have you or your
publisher had any correspondence
with the State Government as to w'hy
it -has been banned?
McCarthy: I don’t know anything
about it and my publisher sent me
newspaper cuttings but whether he
has had any direct communications
or not I don’t know. I rather suspect
not.
Interviewer: I understand that there
is a group of writers and critics in
the State of Victoria which has in
fact made a statement supporting the
publication of your book in the State.
McCarthy: I’m delighted to hear it.
Interviewer: They have protested
with dismay and disgust at the ban-
ning of the book. Have you had any
word from these people?
McCarthy: No, I have not, but for
one thing there has been a mail strike
in Paris, first a strike and then a sort
of slow-down, so it is quite possible
that letters will come in and clippings
about this. All the clippings—cuttings


I believe you call them in England—
newspaper cuttings I have had really
were the first stage pronouncements
by the head of the Vice Squad and
so on about the question. Also news-
paper editorials which —it was very
nice—they were very favorable and I
believe my publisher is planning to
fight the case and naturally I was
pleased to hear that, too.
Interviewer: Might that mean that
you would be going to Australia?
McCarthy: I don't know. I don’t
think an author is normally called in
defence of his own book. I think
other authors are asked to appear for
it but not the author himself. I don’t
know.
Interviewer: The impression has
been gained that the book has been
banned because it is sexy in nature.
McCarthy: Chapter 2 I presume,
yes, and a little bit of, say, Chapter 3
which is about contraception. There
is very little sex in the rest of the
book. I think my idea, my hope,
about this book is that it’s a book
that contains passages about sex that
are not sexy and I think that is quite
a feat to write in great detail about
sex without being in any way
lascivious, conjuring up very volup-
tuous images. So this was my purpose,
anyway, in these two chapters to write
about sex in a detached way without
any erotic overtones. And Chapter 2,
the famous seduction chapter, I wrote
over and over again to eliminate any
hint of voluptuousness. Now, perhaps
I didn’t succeed. Maybe in the
Province of Victoria people can be-
come inflamed by things they are not
inflamed by elsewhere.
Interviewer: But you felt that this
particular scene was essential to the
nature of the book.
McCarthy: Yes, the book is about
women, about modern women and
about how the sort of world of pro-
gressive ideas appeared to them trans-
lated into feminine terms. It's a sort
of study of progress and technology
as seen by women and experienced
by women and those chapters have to
do with technology in the sphere of
sex.
Interviewer: You reckon this has
struck a familiar pulse in 1933
college girls?
McCarthy: Yes, but also modern
girls and I find that college girls and
their mothers are reading the book
and comparing notes. That a girl,
say at Radcliffe, is reading the book
and writing to her mother in Cali-
fornia and saying, Mummy, buy it
a nd tell me what you think.
Interviewer: And reaction generally
elsewhere, apart from the United
States, has been what?
McCarthy: Very favorable. Of
course, it has not yet been translated
in all those other languages, including
Finnish, that it is going to be trans-
lated into. Nowhere, except in Ireland
and Australia, has there been any
notion of this book as a sexy book, so
far as I know, anyway.
Interviewer: And nothing from New
Zealand which is supposedly straight-
laced in its outlook?
McCarthy: Is New Zealand Protes-
tant?
Interviewer: Generally, I don’t
know. They have got a fair mixture.
McCarthy: I know nothing about
New Zealand, about whether it is
selling in New Zealand, has been
allowed in or not. I assume it has but
I don’t know.
Interviewer: Incidentally, what are
the sales so far?
McCarthy: Well, in America some
crazy figure like 170,000 copies. My
other books, the best I have ever done
is 16,000. And by the way, they had
sex in them. Some, not all. And
England I believe it’s about 40 or
45 thousand and I don’t know how
many it sold in Australia before this
happened but probably it will sell
more now owing to this and I must
say that doesn’t please me. The idea
of people buying this book because
they think it’s dirty and buying it to
read the so-called dirty bits I find
terribly depressing and I think those
buyers are going to be awfully dis-
appointed, too. And in fact, I’m
against any kind of censorship really,
partly because I do feel that it
encourages a salacious attitude. I think
the censor and pornographer are the
same person, or rather are two sides
of the same person. I believe this pro-
foundly.
Interviewer: As a mother yourself,
you must have some feelings about
books with sexy passages in that
might be left lying around the house
and which might find their way into
the hands of children.
McCarthy: Well, as a mother at
my age, of course, I'm horrified at
the thought of children getting hold
of, you know, material about s£x,
medical books, whatever it is. But I
try to remember how I was at their
age, and take the attitude I took then.
That is I remember for example
one of our children is 11—at 11 I
was in a Sacred Heart Convent and
there was a big Webster’s dictionary,
enormous dictionary, that we were
allowed to consult during study
periods and all the little girls would
be going up, sitting in front of the
Webster’s looking up the word ‘breast’
and words like that, you know, and
getting all sorts of excited thoughts
about what we read. And the alter-
native of course I suppose would
have been to ban Webster’s dictionary.
You know, the Mother Superior
could have banned the Webster’s
dictionary had she known what we
were up to or cut that page out. But
this is not rational. We would have
found something else and every child
ransacks the parents’ library, medical
books, whatever comes to hand.
They also consult other children and
they may even investigate other
children in different ways and you
can t stop it and children are curious
about something they know nothing
about and they want to find out and
they have to find out and I am for it.
Interviewer: You would in fact put
such reading matter in their way?
McCarthy: I would not put it in
their way but I would not hide it.
I would leave it to fortune to decide
but 1 know from the experience of
biinging up a boy who is now 25,
that he and his friends did get at any
material, mostly medical, that was in
the house that had anything to do
with sex in it and whenever I would
come home I would find these medical
books, after a meeting of these teen-
agers, spread out so I would put them
away with resignation. And now they
are all grown up, most of them are
married, and it didn't do them anv
harm.
Interviewer: Turning away from
sex and children, are you planning a
sequel to “The Group’’?
McCarthy: No, no. I’m against
sequels. They’re never as good as the
original, as the first book. They’re
always the result of a sort of revived
inspiration, not a fresh inspiration.
Interviewer: Now, time is running
out, Miss McCarthy, one final ques-
tion. Do you have any final thoughts
about Australia, the book and the
ban?
McCarthy: Well, I can’t get too
excited about it to be truthful. It
seems to me that the battle against
censorship has been won on the
whole. It has been won the world
over perhaps five years ago. That
here and there there will be little
rearguard actions like this one in
Australia and I am involved in it,
but I cannot feel, you know, a great
crusading pulse of anger because I
think this behavior in the Province
of Victoria is, you know, in the world
scheme unimportant now the battle
has been won.


THIS AUSTRALIA
THE WATERFRONT
Who’s Got the
Numbers in the WWF?
In the background the Communist split
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
C. FITZGIBBON
Unopposed
'll7’hen nominations for Federal officials
closed in the Waterside Workers’
triennial elections students of trade union
politics felt no surprise to learn that
General Secretary C. H. Fitzgibbon
(ALP) was unopposed by a Communist
nominee.
The Communist Party advances three
reasons for not opposing Fitzgibbon,
the main one being that they do not
have a candidate of sufficient calibre to
succeed. Secondly they feel—correctly
or otherwise —that by following their
new “soft” policy with its accent on the
United Front at all costs they stand a
good chance of making a United Front
showcase with Fitzgibbon. Some people
claim that they already see a softening
in Fitzgibbon's attitude towards the
Communist Party, particularly in the
content of the Union’s journal “Maritime
Worker”. Thirdly the Communist Party
maintains that while it can get a majority
vote on the Federal Council (the govern-
ing body of the Union) any untoward
action on Fitzgibbon’s part can be
nullified.
The three Communists holding Federal
office, Industrial Officer N. Docker,
Assistant General Secretary E. Roach
and Federal Organiser M. Wallington
are all being opposed by candidates from
Melbourne, Messrs J. Williams, V. C.
(Gus) Alford and M. Goss. Mr Alford,
it will be recalled, withdrew from the
WWF elections in 1961 following the
death of Jim Healy to avoid splitting the
non-Communist vote. This withdrawal
plus the organisation by Alford and his
supporters in all States helped to ensure
Fitzgibbon’s subsequent victory. Gus
Alford is a member of the DLP and
Goss and Williams are supporters of
Alford.
But anyone looking to Fitzgibbon to
repay Alford by lending him support
will look in vain. Fitzgibbon has already
stated that he will have nothing to do
with either DLP or CP candidates, nor
will he sponsor an ALP ticket. This
Pontius Pilate attitude appears certain
to guarantee the return of the Com-
munists.
Mr Fitzgibbon’s oft-repeated attitude
of “no politics in the Union” is naive to
say the least. If he thinks the Com-
munists follow this iine a glance at an
article by prominent Australian Com-
munist J. Mitchell in the International
Marxist Journal “Peace, Freedom and
Socialism” should disillusion him. For
Mitchell says: “In all major ports (of
Australia) there are branches of the
Communist Party which play a big part
in the struggle of the dockers. The
branches meet once a fortnight. They
sell papers, organise finance, recruit
members to the Party and issue regular
bulletins called ‘The Wharfie’. These
bulletins take up the questions of trade
union struggles, Party policy, world
peace and questions of socialism. The
Party branch plans its contributions to
the mass movement (i.e., union elections)
and plans Communist participation in
strike struggle on the job. The Com-
munists discuss very carefully how they
should raise questions at trade union
meetings or strike struggles.” No politics
in the Union?
Perhaps there will be some determined
effort made to elect to the Federal
Council a majority of ALP members
who will vote with Fitzgibbon but in the
face of the above this seems doubtful.
There are 23 Federal councillors, but
Sydney and Melbourne form a solid
block of eight on the council having
four delegates each. Over the last three
years Fitzgibbon has been voted down
on important issues. He suffered a major
defeat on a pensions issue and a loss of
face rejection of his candidature for a
trip to Tokyo. Unless a determined bid
is made by Fitzgibbon and genuine ALP
supporters around Australia, control of
the 20,500-men union will still remain
effectively in the hands of the Communist
Party. . y.
If the elections for Federal and
Branch officials (the latter also to be
held this year) are allowed to pass by
the ALP without a determined bid to
oust Communist officials, it will be a
tragedy. For in both the major ports
of Melbourne and Sydney the Com-
munist Party split has had its effect. In
Melbourne the popular Communist
Vigilant Officer Ted Bull has taken his
bags to the camp of Ted Hill and the
pro-Peking Communists have launched
a savage attack in their journal on their
pro-Soviet counterparts in the Mel-
bourne branch of the WWF. They are
claiming lack of support in the case of
the deregistration of gang delegate L.
Hillier plus a heavy loss in job con-
ditions. In Sydney ex-CP member Sid
Clare, steadily gaining support for the
Hill group, is said to be planning to
run a team in the Sydney branch elec-
tions. This, along with mounting hostility
against the Uncle Joe-type autocracy of
Sydney Branch Secretary Tom Nelson
and some of his colleagues and the retire-
ment for health reasons of Treasurer
Stan Moran would seem to give an ALP
team its best chance of victory in years.
It should be remembered that though
given little chance of winning in 1961,
support by ALP leaders and unitv of the
anti-Communist vote gave Fitzgibbon a
clear victory.
PENAL CLAUSES
The PMG and the Mail Strike
Improvements in the postal services
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
XTobody ever wins in the type of
dispute that last week crippled the
Sydney GPO s Mail Sorting Room. The
real yardstick to measure the outcome
is, who has retrieved most from the
wreckage. Approached on this basis
the question of whether or not the Com-
monwealth Government and the Post-
master-General, Mr Alan Hulme, “caved
in” to the demands of the striking mail
sorters is academic.
As I see it, the function of the Post-
master-General in the circumstances he
faced last week were: (1) To restore


normal functioning of the mail service;
(2) To have that restoration on a basis
' that efficiency was improved rather than
lessened; (3) To assert and maintain
1 Commonwealth authority over its em-
ployees, and (4) To achieve these things
; without using unnecessarily, and from a
i sense of vengefulness rather than judg-
ment, the formidable penal provisions.
The Commonwealth, which was rep-
resented in the negotiations by Hulme
and the Minister for Labor, Mr Mc-
Mahon, seems to me to have extracted
the most that could be extracted from
the Sydney Mail Room chaos.
Hulme could undoubtedly have used
the “big stick” of the Commonwealth
Public Service Act’s penal clauses. He
could have fined or fired both permanent
and temporary officers participating.
But if he had used the penal clauses
injudiciously at that stage he would
almost certainly have extended and
possibly prolonged indefinitely the dura-
tion of both the strike and public dis-
comfort. And even if he had used the
penal clauses and ultimately brought the
strike to a successful conclusion -from
the Commonwealth’s viewpoint by beat-
ing the strikers to their knees, what
would he have really achieved?
He would have established the Com-
monwealth’s right to use the penal
clauses in the Commonwealth Public
Service Act to defeat a strike in a Com-
monwealth instrumentality. But Hulme
and the Commonwealth established this
without any prolongation of extension
of the strike under Clause Four of the
settlement terms on which the strikers
returned to work. Both the ACTU and
the Postal Workers’ Union, the organisa-
tions that had the capacity to extend
and prolong the stoppage, have signed
formally and unequivocally a declara-
tion that they will not support any stop-
page of work in the future on any
industrial issue. Furthermore, both organ-
isations have agreed in a signed docu-
ment that in future in any stoppage the
penalty provisions of the Public Service
Act “will be appropriately applied”.
I see it, Hulme and McMahon
* established precisely what they would
have had established, if they had fought
the strikers right through to the bitter
end—a fight in which the public not
only in NSW but probably in other
States would have suffered from the
heavy disability of being without a mail
service possibly for weeks.
Not only has the ACTU acknow-
ledged by abandoning its claim to the
right to strike for postal workers and its
acceptance of future penalties under the
penal clauses that a Government instru-
mentality is in a different position from
a private employer, but the Common-
wealth has also been presented with the
opportunity to improve Post Office mail
efficiency.
The introduction of women and part-
time workers into the mail sorting branch
has long been resisted. Women were
employed only for the Christmas rush.
Now both women and part-time workers
have been accepted. As this will make
the staffing of the mail sorting room
easier, the Government could afford to
make minor concessions on the issue of
the unpopular late shifts against which
the Sydney mail sorters rebelled. Once
part-time workers, expected to be mostly
female, become available and are
sufficiently trained the Post Office will
probably be in a position to let men
who elect to move from the unpopular
shifts to do so without any loss of
efficiency.
When the PWU Federal Secretary,
George Slater, at the Sydney mass meet-
ing on Thursday which ended the strike,
waved aloft the terms of settlement and
pronounced them a defeat for the Com-
monwealth Government while refraining
from reading them out to the meeting,
he was probably revealing that his
assessment was the same as mine.
Tanner
"We believe in uniform censorship.
In fact, we'll even supply
. . . the uniform."


POWER BEQUEST
The Man from Manchester
and the £1.8 Million
A note of scepticism...
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
Tn April, 1962, a letter to the University
of Sydney informed the authorities
that Dr John Wardell Power, late of
Jersey, in the Channel Islands, had left
MLC shares to the value of £760,000
to the university to be used to establish
a Faculty of Fine Arts “to make avail-
able to the people of Australia the latest
ideas and theories in the plastic arts”.
Since then the value of the shares has
appreciated to an estimated £1,800,000.
Last week and two years later the
Senate of the University approved a
proposal from its Vice-Chancellor, Pro-
fessor S. H. Roberts, that a Professor
White, who holds the Chair of the
History of Art at the University of Man-
chester, should come to Australia later
this year to report on the possible use
of the bequest.
The announcement of Professor White’s
commission received little prominence in
the Press, partly because he is not the
world figure that Sir Herbert Read or
Sir Kenneth Clarke might have been.
But the Vice-Chancellor is quick to
stress that Professor White was chosen
on ‘‘the best authorities”. It was that
unobtrusive, but active body, the British
Council which first put forward Pro-
fessor White's name.
In Manchester Professor White is also
Director of the Whitworth Art Gallery.
The Vice-Chancellor sees this as another
recommendation in his favor. The guide-
book description of the gallery says that
it has “an outstanding collection of water-
colors of the classical period”, i.e.,
English 18th and 19th century, and
some contemporary works. The Pro-
fessor was educated at Oxford, London
University, and at the Courtauld In-
stitute in London (that unusual institution
for the study of art history and
aesthetics which provided the figure for
Iris Murdoch's savage portrait of the
art-connoisseur bigot in “The Bell”).
Relatively young, only 39, he has
travelled, lecturing for the British Coun-
cil and as visiting professor at Chicago.
His first published book was called “Per-
spectives in Ancient Drawing and Paint-
ing”.
Painters, or indeed most people con-
nected with that amorphous reality
called the art world tend to hold strong,
indeed passionate views, so it was not
surprising that in Sydney last week
there were some tart reactions to the
announcement of the professor's appoint-
ment. Rightly or wrongly scepticism
was being expressed as to whether the
man from Manchester would be the best
man to advise on the wishes of the late
Dr Power, who had spoken of “the
latest ideas and theories in the plastic
arts by means of lectures and teaching
and by the purchase of the most recent
contemporary art . . . so as to bring the
people of Australia in more direct touch
with the latest art developments.
The scepticism was partly a product
of an old tension, that between the art
historians in such Fine Arts faculties
throughout the world and the prac-
titioners. The President of the Con-
temporary Art Society of NSW, painter
Elwyn Lynn, expressed this bluntly last
week when he said that he hoped that
the bequest would be saved from “the
dead hand of history”. Mr Lynn said
that it was obvious Dr Power saw his
projected faculty as fulfilling a living
vital role influencing painters in Aus-
tralia and forming public taste.
Part of the ill feeling current has been
caused by the failure of the university to
consult people like State gallery directors
or the Contemporary Art Society, which
has merely received an acknowledgment
of a letter sent. The Art Gallery of
NSW has not been approached in the
two years. In Melbourne last week the
director of the Gallery, Mr Eric West-
brook, said that the art gallery pro-
fession was concerned that it had heard :
nothing.
Running as a theme through the com-
ments is the suspicion that the University
of Sydney wishes to modify the inten- '
tions of Dr Power, finding them in-
convenient and too difficult to fit within
the conventional framework of a
university, and that this accounts for ,
the long delay ascribed to legal problems.
Last week Professor Roberts said that
the legal problems were “fantastically
complicated”, and it would still be “some .
considerable time” before the will .could,
come before the Equity Court.
Those who profess suspicion claim
that the will is perfectly clear and that
the intentions of Dr Power are straight- .■
forward, if inconvenient. An interesting j
aspect of the affair is whether any
changes in the interpretation of the will -
would have to be sought in the Equity ]
Court here or in the Royal Court of
Jersey, under the medieval French law,
which still governs the Channel Islands.
Although the latter has been canvassed
as a possibility it seems that the Equity
Court in NSW would now be able to I
determine the matter because the shares !
are here.
The two surviving relatives of Mrs
Power, both women living in Bathurst,
could have no interest in the will to
dispute any changes, whatever they
might feel personally. However, as the
bequest becomes a trust the Attorney'
General as “monitor” of such trusts has
a right of representation.
THE POLICE
ffiJ&uLletin
80 Years Ago: April 19, 1884
HPhe Inspector-General, Mr Fos-
-*■ berry, says: “I constantly re-
ceive communications from country
benches, magistrates, and others,
commending the conduct and effici-
ency of the police.” It is presumed
that after reading this information,
from a reliable source, those impe-
cunious scribblers for the daily Press,
known as reporters, will hide their
heads in shame. All along they have
been declaring that when a row
occurs, the paid minion of the Law
gets as far from the scene of action
as possible; that if an intoxicated
man has any cash about him and
falls into the hands of the police he
will never hear of that money again;
that if a murder or robbery occurs,
the best place to look for a police-
man is in the private parlor of. an
out-of-the-way hotel. We are glad
that Mr Fosberry has come to the
rescue of the police in this official
way, and we quite agree with the
Inspector-General that “the practice,
which has become inconveniently
common [to hotel proprietors], of pre-
senting valuable testimonials [£s
notes and the like] to members of the
force” is “difficult to withstand”,
j? ONTA^s statues of the Que en and
« Wales >» arr i ve d last week As
D . , wales amved ast week. As
Riverina complains she gets no at-
tention from the Central Govern-
nient, we suggest to the Cabinet the
propriety of forwarding these
Parkes-ordered marbles to either Hay
or Wilcannia. They would suit
admirably an up-country lock-up.


UNIVERSITIES
Melbourne’s
Third University
Mr Bolte’s £1,550,000
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
HENRY BOLTE
Lobbyists galore
Perhaps Melbourne’s third university,
wherever it is located, should be
Lied after David Syme, father-figure
l the Melbourne “Age”. Until the staid
orning broadsheet touched on it late
st month, the question of the State’s
ird academy, while it had not slipped
itirely out of public notice, was any-
ling but a topical issue. Thanks to “The
ge", the university and more par-
tularly its siting is a lively issue
id one which will not add to Mr Bolte's
imfort in the coming months.
.“The Age” pulled the university out of
e remote future into the immediate
I esent by disclosing that £1,550,000
located by the Federal Government
wards the establishment of the new
jiiversity had been lying idle since last
dober. The State Government had not
ted a finger towards doing anything
th the money and it was a fair con-
Jsion that it intended to do nothing
is side of the election. In view of the
ijms of several country towns for the
liversity, not to mention lobbying from
elbourne municipalities, Mr Bolte pre-
rred to forget about the money and the
lerous decision of where to spend it.
The best that could be said of his
leness was that there was a conflict
; tween the recommendations of the
Diversities Commission and the Ram-
y committee of inquiry set up by his
' n Government. The former had
commended siting the third university
Melbourne, while the latter had urged
rming a small university college at
Ballarat. However, the £1,550,000 from
the Federal Government was unmistak-
ably meant for a new university in Mel-
bourne.
After “The Age” disclosure, Mr Bolte
came quickly to heel. He said the new
university would be operating by 1967
and would be sited in the Melbourne
metropolitan area as the Universities
Commission had requested. He said that
by the end of April a small working
committee would be appointed to select
a site and a Vice-Chancellor. Mindful of
an old election promise that Ballarat
would one day get a university, Mr
Bolte also said that the city’s School of
Mines would be extended to teach the
humanities and provide degree courses.
Hard on his tracks were the sectional
lobbyists. Country Party Leader Sir
Herbert Hyland reported “widespread
disappointment in country areas.” Per-
haps indicative of the growing co-opera-
tion between the ALP and the Country
Party was the comment from the Labor
Party Leader, Mr Stoneham: “I am
alarmed that the Premier would submit
to pressure to have the university in
Melbourne.” At the moment the field
is definitely restricted to pressure groups
in the metropolitan area. Sunshine is a
leading contender, with no less than
four proposed sites, but Preston has also
staked a claim for the Bundoora area.
With any luck, however, the committee
which Mr Bolte is going to appoint will
not pick a site until after the elections.
RANSPORT
The War of the Taxis
An American Competitor?
FROM A BRISBANE CORRESPONDENT
) ISRANE P e ople are wondering what
will happen next in the war being
§ t by the taxi cab companies over
S ' latest shot in the battle was
when the three major companies
|scQ Ue and White, Black and White and
the fare per mile by Id. to
[' ' This brought the fare down
level with that charged by the Yellow
cabs. Yellows used to charge Is. for
years, but not long ago put it up to
Is. 3d. The undercutting by Yellow
cabs caused considerable animosity,
which still exists, between its drivers and
the others. As for the passengers, they
tended to split themselves up, depending
on their temperaments and their pockets.
For instance, to take a Yellow cab was
—and probably still is—considered infra
dig in top social circles, because the
fare was cheaper. Some passengers
deliberately passed them by on the rank;
but many others sought them out.
The maximum legal fare in Brisbane
has remained at Is. 6d. a mile for 14
years, but all companies have charged
under it because of competition pressure.
What was the reason for the three com-
panies’ cut in fares? The spokesman, Mr
George Morris, says it was an attempt to
prevent further undercutting, to help in
an approach to the State Government for
a standardisation of fares. There is a
fear, he says, that Amoco might enter
the taxi business and, like Ampol with
their Yellow cabs, undercut in fares. He
denies that his owner-drivers really want
all fares raised to Is. 6d.— something
the Government has repeatedly refused.
STUDENTS
Hanging Protest
Banned
Tampering with the “Prosh”
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
“Prosh Dropped” said the stop press
of “The West Australian.” “Uni-
versity students have cancelled the annual
University ‘Prosh’ due to be held to-
morrow. No reason has been given for
the cancellation. The police were
notified late last night that it had been
cancelled.”
In fact, Prosh—the annual university
procession was held on schedule on
April 8. The story behind the stop press
item is yet to be fully explained, but it
came out of nervousness at the state of
public opinion against university students.
Nobody in Perth would have been
really surprised this year if the celebra-
tion had been called off. The first hint
of what was to brew into a hostile
public came with a letter to the editor
from a woman complaining that a boy
had been in a sorry state when he arrived
at her place, 15 miles from home.
It turned out that 18-year-old David
Monahan had resisted the normal college
initiations, but had been taken to by a
bigger group, daubed on his face with
silver nitrate, stripped to his underpants,
and dumped in a distant creek. His face,
apart from the intended staining, was
also burnt.
The Guild of Undergraduates was
nervous enough about public opinion to
ban floats in the procession attacking
capital punishment, reportedly at the
request of“the police.


A new angle
—on industrial buildings. The angle we are referring to is the
LOWLINE roof of the Armco Rigid Frame Building, so reveal-
ingly portrayed above by our photographer who got a little out
of control when he saw the beautiful job we'd made of it.
It’s modern. It's low. You like it? It means that you can plan
a building around the versatile Armco Rigid Frame System and
have it look mighty attractive.
Drop us a line if you’ve got something in the wind. We'd like
to help you right from the start.
ARMCO
(Australia) Pty. Ltd.
N.S.W.: 127-141 Bath Road, Sutherland. 521-2711.
Victoria: 32 Levanswell Road, Moorabbin, S2O 95-0241
Queensland: 194-196 Grey Street, South Brisbane 4-3214
South Australia: P.O. Box 68, Port Adelaide.
ARI3S.e«
CENSORSHIP
The Citizens’
Purity League, as well
Quietly seeking the ear of sympathetic officials
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
ARTHUR RYLAH
Commended
What is the Council for the Promo-
tion of Cultural Standards? Vic-
torians who have followed the spacious
Press controversy over “The Group" have
been asking this since two letters ap-
peared in the dailies signed by the
Council's honorary secretary, Mr A.
Curtis. Both commended Mr Rylah and
the Vice Squad for their literary activi-
ties, but without making any mention of
“The Group". In one letter, Mr Curtis
gave his address as St Paul's Cathedral.
Recalling that the Anglican Coadjutor,
Bishop Felix Arnott, is a vice-president
of “The Freedom to Read” Association
and, presumably, somewhat critical of
Mr Rylah and the Vice Squad in the
present context, The Bulletin sensed a
story. Was there, behind the grey stones
of St Paul's, a conflict over censorship
principles? Did Bishop Arnott and Mr
Curtis, a layman and secretary of the
Home Missions Department, shoot dart-
ing glances at each other when they
passed on the worn flagstones?
But Mr Curtis deflated this melodrama
with a single sentence. He referred to
his Council as “in some ways an inter-
denominational organisation”. In fact, it is
far more than that: It has about 71)
affiliates, mainly, but not all, church
groups. They include the Victorian
Teachers" Union, the Victorian Author-
ised Newsagents’ Association, the Mel-
bourne Suburban Newspapers' Associa
tion, the Melbourne Junior Chamber o
Commerce, the Citizens' Purity Leagur
and the Women's Christian Temperanci
Union. Those sworn enemies, the Jew
ish Council and the Jewish Board o!
Deputies are both affiliates, .as is the
Jesuit Fathers’ Institute of Social Order
There is the Shop Assistants' Union
the Headmistresses’ Association of Vic
toria, the YMCA, the YWCA, the Assn
ciation of Catholic Teachers. Th
Presbyterian Church and the Salvatioi
Army are affiliated through the Vic
torian organisations and there is a large
number of Anglican, Catholic, Baptist
Methodist and Congregationalist bodie
linked up.
When we suggested that the gener;
public knew little about the Council, V
Curtis agreed. As far as he knew, the tw
recent letters to the Melbourne Pres
were the first of their kind publish
by the Council. “Most of our work
done behind the scenes,” he explain g
and concerned having offensive mas |
zines and books removed from drci I
lation. 1
Mr Curtis, who has been secretary f< J
over a year, could not recall any red*
complaints lodged against books as di
tinct from magazines and soft-backs
The Council had found both the Sta
and Federal authorities most sympathe:
to its aims. Indeed, Sgt Mick Milk
Victoria’s book-banning policeman, h-
addressed the Council's last annual mef
ing. Mr Curtis found Sgt Miller “n ,f j
sincere” and the sort of policeman who
standards could be relied upon.
He did not know of any promino
literary or artistic figures associated"
the Council. ]
Quite apart from the Council's abih f
to make judgments on cultural, and J
tinct from moral grounds, it seems |
have failed hugely in one of its ai f h
This is the clause in its constitute L
obliging it to use “lectures, newspap «•
articles, public addresses, TV and ra J r |
talks” to publicise its aims and to aroits
“public resentment” of breaches 1
proper standards.
Two letters to the Press in seven |
is hardly in the spirit of this d all i
However, as Mr Curtis said, the Com 1
found it could achieve more if it
sought the ear of sympathetic Mm |S J
and officials.


0336
A LUXURIOUS
FULLY AUTOMATIC
HIGH PERFORMANCE CAR
-YET STILL UNDER £2,000
:S^HU YII i E R^, —
tw,
£
m
o
Everything you could wish for in prestige motoring
Elegant styling throughout that won the coveted Rome “Concours d'Elegance” two years in succession.
Top performance from the whisper quiet 3-litre engine. Luxurious comfort for driver and passengers.
Dee Ply upholstered foam rubber seating.
Maximum safety from power operated disc brakes.
AUSTRALIA’S MOST EXCEPTIONAL VALUE IN HIGH PERFORMANCE
HUMBER
£l9BB TAX PAID
LUXURY MOTORING
the accepted name for quality
SERVICE BY
OVER 400' AUTHORISED ROOTES GROUP DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA ARRANGE A TEST DRIVE TODAY!


Stepping Off on the Right Foot
Australian ballet looks overseas
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Robert Helpmann, looking back
on his 30-odd years in British
ballet, recalled that Ninette de
Valois gave herself 20 years to get the
Sadler’s Wells company to the standard
and prestige it reached as the Royal
Ballet. “And it took every day of that,”
Helpmann said. “I remember when
Markova left the company I thought it
was the end. But de Valois said ‘These
things have to happen. It's part of the
pattern. But don’t despair. I have a
young dancer coming up called Peggy
Hookham’.”
That promising young dancer, now
Margot Fonteyn, will dance in Sydney
and Melbourne this month and next
with the Australian Ballet Company,
which is a scant two years old. Mem-
bers of the company are, no doubt,
elated that so soon in their company’s
life they have Margot Fonteyn and her
partner, Nureyev, dancing with them,
because the Australian Ballet, in both
artistic and economic terms, is as yet
hardly off the ground. “And please
Heaven it won't take 20 years!”
breathed an officer of the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust. The Trust sponsors the
Australian Ballet Company, with the
moral, but not the financial, support of
J. C. Williamson’s.
Although the Fonteyn-Nureyev season
is a bright jewel in the young company’s
crown, the Australian Ballet is already
looking even further afield. The com-
pany's administrator, Geoffrey Ingram,
said that when Mr lan Hunter was
here from Britain last month for
talks on the proposed Commonwealth
Festival of the Arts, an informal invi-
tation was made to the ballet company.
“But, of course, we would need more
than just ‘The Display’ in the way of
distinctly Australian ballets before we
could go to Britain as an Australian
company,” Mr Ingram said.
The company also has <m Asian tour
as more than just a vague idea at the
back of its mind. One new ballet
proposed for the company will use a
modern Japanese composer and designer
and Japan is the most likely starting-
point for an Asian tour. Mr Ingram
pointed out that ballet was the most
readily exportable form of the theatre
arts with no language involved.
Immediately after the Fonteyn-
Nureyev season the company will go
into rehearsals for the capital city tour
with the programmes shown at the Ade-
laide Festival. The capital city tour
will take the company through to end-
of-the-year holidays. The city tour
will be combined with opera. Opera-
ballet will play for about two months
in Sydney and Melbourne and about
four weeks in the smaller cities. In
each city the Trust will have available
the ABC Symphony Orchestra. In this
way both ballet and opera get the sup-
port of a first-class orchestra. The only
people who may suffer are the ABC
subscribers who notice a gap in their
concert schedule. The ABC makes
the orchestra available as a gesture,
although the Trust pays overtime and
some other charges. One advantage of
running ballet and opera concurrent!:
is that first-class dancers are available
for ballet sequences in opera.
This rationalised system for ppeT
and ballet should work for some year ’
in fact, until public demand enables tb :
Trust to maintain its own orchestras!
the major cities have second orchestral
The capital city tour this year meat,
that the ballet company will not be abli
to split in two, as was at first proposed
to do country tours, although invitation
have come from NSW, Queensland an..
South Australia. Additional dancer.
may be recruited within a year ort".
to keep faith with the country.
All this sounds very confident aiu
exhilarating for a company which te
than a year ago limped back from Ne |:
Zealand after curtailing its tour thei :
and after chalking up book losses f
£ 100,000 for its first season. On it
first tour the company did badly in Adf
laide, Perth and Brisbane but well i'
both Sydney and Melbourne. Aud' ■
ences' mid-summer lassitude in the mart
accounted for failures in Adelaide anl
Perth.
Adelaide memories, apparently, are!
short, because the season during an .
after the Festival last month was booke
out. An additional performance " a |
sold out within four hours of the h° x j
office opening.- The Adelaide seaso|
may have shown a profit, in spite of l
initial cost of “The Display" and
Spectrum”, which will be the niain
stays of the tour later this year.


V.
N
| S I 111
(I Iff*
THE
COONAWARRA ESTATE
The vineyard and the old stone
cellars are in the care of dedicated
men who have retained many of
the traditional hand-methods in
carefully producing Australia’s
finest table wines.
Each bottle is marked with its
vintage year and carries a back
label clearly showing where the
Estate is located.
COONAWARRA ESTATE* CLARET IS
made from the original Shiraz
(Hermitage) vineyard.
COONAWARRA ESTATE CABERNET
is vintaged from 70 acres of the
rare Cabernet Sauvignon.
COONAWARRA ESTATE RIESLING
comes from a new vineyard of
Rhine Riesling.
*“ Estate ” (as the word “ Chateau ” in France ) is used to
distinguish the jvine as being the genuine product of the
winegrowers’ own vineyard.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors: S. WYNN & CO.PTY.LTD.
Australian Ballet at Christmas put on
the “Nutcracker Suite” for matinees
only at the Princess Theatre, Mel-
bourne, and did capacity business until
February 7. This was a very profitable
venture and got the company across to
younger audiences.
Advance bookings for the Fonteyn-
Nureyev season were good in Sydney
and a season sellout is expected, even
at £6 a seat, for advance bookings.
Fonteyn was £5 ss. a seat on her last
tour and an extra £1 doesn’t seem to
.worry her admirers. Twelve pounds
for a night-out minimum is not high
by the standards of Sydney night-club
patrons, although the people who go to
night-clubs are not always the people
who go to ballet. No one will, or can,
make a guess at the fees commanded by
‘Fonteyn and Nureyev to appear here,
but seat-prices must obviously be re-
lated somehow to costs. A minimal
profit is the most that can be hoped
for from the season.
Ballet in 1964 is obviously a very
different thing from the Borovansky
days. It would be perilous to' see
Borovansky as the last of the great indi-
vidualists, because as sure as you do,
mother of his type will appear. But,
recording to Mr Ingram, people have
r:|rown more accustomed to group man-
agement.
Although Boro, left a great reputa-
ion behind him when he died in 1959,
! e almost no organisation,” Mr
ngram said. "There are dancers, of
-ourse, like Kathy Gorham and Leon
jell away, but Boro, was the whole
'how.”
Borovansky was almost certainly a
nan for his times. During and after
«e war he provided romantic, specta-
cular ballet for a public with limited
ccess to full-scale glamor. Many of
ls audience were living on memories
' r reports of the de Basil and Monte
q arl ° companies. Between 1940 and
It■ ° no Pallet company visited Austra-
ra except the Ballet Rambert. “Ballet
p ere be came completely inbred,” Mr
:||§ r am said. “Boro, made 13 tours
G, Ustra ha. There was sometimes
P ° an oversea s tour but it never
' ion 6 / 0 an^t b' n §- It was just a proces-
k • rom one capital city to the next,
kj: n " eac b time as long as the box-
S "lek it’ anc l at times dis-
mow "r u- a! together. You
lenrt’ ePeve Boro, died of a broken
l ear t really.”
’
a |H , WEVER ’. since 1958 there have been
L:Vi? ts by Fonteyn, once with a
t° dan ° Ballet dancers and once
jllhere C t Wlth th e Borovansky company.
( | V u a i ISO been visits by the
fjfe er , tU Mal y> a group of Bolshoi
’ the New York City Ballet,
some French dancers as well as Asian
companies.
This has given local dancers access
to a wide variety of ballet. However,
Mr Ingram does not believe that a dis-
tinctively Australian style has yet deve-
loped. “I think Australian dancers
have something of the robustness of the
Russian style,” he said. “That is some-
thing Australian audiences like. But
our aim really is for an international
company.”
Although the guiding light of the
Australian Ballet Company, Miss Peggy
van Praagh, sheds a much softer beam
than Boro, did, Mr Ingram believes that
ballet still has to be “big” in the Boro-
vansky sense. “It would be no use sub-
sidising small groups of dancers,” he
said. “Australia at present could sup-
port only one large company probably,
but it has to be large. I joined with
English dancers Sally Gilmour and Mar-
garet Scott in 1959 in sending the first
submission to the Elizabethan that it
should support ballet. JCW’s still had
the Borovansky company then, but we
still had in mind a full-scale company.”
Mr Ingram said there was no real
shortage of dancers in Australia
“although good ones are always hard to
find” and male dancers demand some-
times outruns supply. There are nearly
600 dancing schools in Australia and
out of these come an endless stream of
young dancers. Most of these are fated
to join a company as a member of the
corps de ballet and to remain there.
There is a sort of unofficial upper age
limit for members of the corps de ballet
of around 30, but most of them have
retired gracefully, often to teaching,
before that.
Within recent months the Australian
Ballet School has been founded in Mel-
bourne by the Trust and along some-
thing the same lines as the National
Institute of Dramatic Art. The school
offers a two-year course, some scholar-
ships and subjects such as music, art,
and literature, as well as gymnastics for
the men and subjects closer to dancing.
It is hoped that the school will over-
come some of the difficulties Miss van
Praagh faced in her first season with
perfectly good young dancers, who had
never been on a stage, and who didn’t
know how to face an audience or wear
a costume.
The chief shortage Australian ballet
is suffering, Mr Ingram said, is choreo-
graphers. “But that is universal,” he
said. “No country has enough good
choreographers. We will probably
have to keep bringing them here to en-
large our repertoire and help our own
young choreographers enlarge their
experience.” Mr Ingram said it had
been a wonderful experience for the
Australian Ballet "to have worked with
Robert Helpmann for “The Display”.
“It is marvellous for young dancers to
work with someone of his concentration
and artistic standards,” he said. “And
it is exciting for them to see a ballet
created from the very beginning.”
What has probably changed most in
Australian ballet in the past few years
is audiences. “Audiences today are
more catholic,” Mr Ingram said. “We
get more balanced audiences, which are
not made up so exclusively of women.
In fact, they are much the same as the
audiences for other theatre. The bal-
letomane, in the Arnold Haskell sense,
has disappeared.”


' ' . ' - .'S
Ik*.
■.■■■■ ■■ - ■■■'■■: • '" x '''
i n * ? ■
S
PFV
!
r:r
-V
\
I Ul
i
tpr
***»
V.'
m • V §sf
**r' •
I fK
M
*
u
Ss. ».. *'.>
i M
\ # 1
S*** v,v 'V
0: ; :::-
i: f:!i:«fr /
*1
®-£
N
wfl
m
*o®
v:
Copy Breaks cost money..
End expensive holdups
Systems Machines.
decentralise with “Thermo-Fax” Brand Copying and
“THERMO-FAX” Brand copying and systems ma-
chines can end “copy breaks” in your office by giv-
ing decentralised copying at a price you can afford.
Decentralisation gives you these advantages:—
★ Equipment WHERE it is needed.
★ Copies taken WHEN they are needed.
★ No full time operators.
★ Elimination of bottlenecks at peak times.
★ Economy even at a low-rate copying station.
General copying is only the first function of
“Thermo-Fax” brand Business Machines. Versa-
tility lies in the wide range of specialty papers and
films.
• You can make 10,000 gummed and addressed
labels an hour with special perforated copy paper.
• In just four seconds you can laminate important
papers with a tough, permanent plastic.
• You can make copies of internal paperwork on
systems papers for only 2d. a copy.
Located at strategic positions where they are near-
est the sources of work, 3M Business Communica-
tions Machines quickly prove to be a sound invest-
ment through reduced costs.
Phone the nearest Branch of the 3M Company
GOmPANY
BUSINESS CUmmUNICATIUNS DIVISION
Sydney: 2-0930. Melbourne: 61-3841. Adelaide: 51-5971. Brisbane: 5-4131. Perth: 28-4651.
Hobart: 3-3104. Canberra: 4-0791. Auckland: 28-6099.
fTIINNESOTA miNING AND ITIANUFACTURING [AUSTRALIA] FTY. LTD.


FORUM
Thoughts on
Mercy
[Killings
After the Benn verdict...
By GORDON HAWKINS
( Lecturer in Criminology, University
of Sydney)
The case of Dr Maurice Benn who
now sits under sentence of death
in the condemned section of the
old Fremantle Gaol has inspired a
more than usually conflicting crop of
oditorial reflections and other public
statements. On the one hand it has
reen said that “The law has been vindi-
cated”, and the jury have been congratul-
ated because “they had a painful duty
o do and did it without shrinking”.
3n the other hand it is suggested that
I‘the case must surely add strength to
moves for the complete abolition of
he death penalty in Australia”. And
Lord Stonham, who is chairman of the
United Kingdom National Society for
jVlentally Handicapped Children, has
Renounced the sentence as “savage and
lincivilized”.
! The parents of mentally retarded
Children have been told both that “they
jniust not imagine that there is no solu-
tion to their problem” (“for there
J-indoubtedly is as they will discover
j ! / they make inquiries which are
thorough and determined enoughf'W)',
Nd at the same time that “there is no
jivailable residential care awaiting
1 am *lies who have been brought to the
Point of desperation trying to live with
U me ntaliy retarded child who is beyond
control.”. Indeed the Secretary and
g u P erv isor of the Handicapped Child-
[ ens Centre at Sutherland has stated
at the inability to get proper care for
.'0 normal children was driving desper-
-i\ e P are nts to the choice: “Go mad or
, snoot them”.
Agreement has been wanting even in
FB‘ird to purely factual matters such as
tiTh ' nc^ence °f mental retardation.
1 us one Sunday paper gave the num-
xjL mentally retarded children in
i MV as “more than 13,000” on one
go, and as “about 44,000” on another,
i that n, officiall y estimated incidentally
for xj«*; fiBUre is approximately 40,000
SW and 100,000 for Australia.)
I course when cases of this nature
are under discussion unanimity is not to
be expected, but it may not be out of
place to attempt to clarify some of the
issues a little. There are at least four
matters which deserve serious considera-
tion. Firstly there is the question of
the care of mentally retarded children;
secondly there is the jury’s verdict in
this case; thirdly there is the question
of capital punishment; and lastly that
of mercy-killing or euthanasia.
In regard to the first it is to be hoped
that Dr Benn may draw some consolation
from the fact that he has focused public
attention on the gross and shameful de-
ficiencies in the provisions made in our
society for the care of its weakest and
most pitifully vulnerable members. It
has been suggested in some quarters that
the tragedy of the case lies in the fact
that Benn was not aware of the exist-
ence of all the facilities available for the
mentally retarded. In fact, he of all
people can scarcely have been unaware
of the hopeless inadequacy of the diag-
nostic, educational and vocational pro-
visions for those handicapped in this
way. And now as a result of his action
this has received wide public and
governmental recognition. “Special
attention” is now being given to the
extension of services to such children;
and more residential State schools and
diagnostic centres, adequate hospitals
and training facilities are being both
demanded and promised.
As to the jury’s verdict it is a little
surprising to find that such widespread
satisfaction with it has been expressed.
“Few Australians”, it has been said,
“can have felt disposed to take issue
with the verdict of the Perth jury”.
Yet the noted Catholic jurist Norman
St John-Stevas in his discussion of
euthanasia in “Life, Death and the Law”
(1961) points out That both in England
and America juries, in such cases, miti-
gate the harshness of the law by bring-
ing in verdicts of acquittal or convicting
of a lesser offence than that charged in
the indictment. By way of illustration
he cites two cases. One is an American
case in which a father killed his imbe-
cile blind child. The jury brought in a
verdict of manslaughter in the second
degree with a recommendation for “the
utmost clemency”. The judge imposed
a suspended sentence of 5-10 years’
imprisonment and placed him on pro-
bation. The other is the case of an
English officer, Major George Johnson,
who in 1960 killed his three-month-old
mongol son. He was acquitted of mur-
der but found guilty of manslaughter
and sentenced to twelve months’ im-
prisonment.
Jury discretion
HThe Royal Commission on Capital
"*■ Punishment after hearing conflicting
evidence on this subject concluded that
juries did “from time to time” mitigate
the rigor of the law in this way. Nor
is there any doubt that Australian
juries not uncommonly do the same.
Thus Stanley Johnston of Melbourne
University’s Criminology Department
has pointed out that Australian juries
bring in fewer verdicts of the capital
crime, murder, under a Liberal or Con-
servative than under a Labor govern-
ment; so that on the court figures the
murder conviction rates give the gro-
tesque appearance of rising under a
Labor government and falling under a
Liberal government. The Royal Com-
mission seem to have felt that this
humane practice ought to be put on a
formal basis and recommended that
juries should be given discretion to de-
cide in each particular case whether
the sentence of death were appropiate,
and if it appeared to them that it was
not, to impose or recommend a lesser
punishment. They argued that the
signal advantage of jury discretion was
that it would make the law of murder
more flexible and enable courts to take
account of the particular circumstances
in regard to cases such as mercy-killing,
the survivors of genuine “suicide pacts”,
those of mental abnormality insufficient
to justify a finding of insanity and many
others of the kind calling more for pity
than censure.
Another advantage of jury discretion
would be that it would provide a means


i a ■
fifty-fifty with
TEACHERS
HIGHLAND CREAM
SCOTCH WHISKY
The finest drink in the
world is water*. . .
fresh or frozen—fifty-
fifty with Teacher’s.
* There’s soda jor those
who prejer it.
SCMDOteii
■ESS
Agents —N.S.W.: Tucker & Co. Pty Ltd
Sydney. Victoria: C. & E. Baitz Pty. Ltd’’
Melbourne. Queensland: The Australian
Estates Company Ltd., Brisbane. South
Australia: Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort
Limited, Adelaide. West Australia: E. Benson
& Co.. Perth. Importers Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
TW23a.83.855cN
The FRANKLIN
MAGNIFIER
-o
&
NEEDS NO
FOCUSING
New to
Australia.
Over 250,000
sold. Precision made
by leading optical firm.
Lies flat on the paper,
sJin. long. In plastic pocket
case, 30/-, post paid. Your
money refunded if not satisfactory.
Hornsby Trading Co., Box 70, Hornsby,
N.S.W. Solves your gift problem!
of obviating the passing of the death
sentence in those categories of homicide
in which it is never carried out. It is
certainly indefensible in the Benn case,
(where it would clearly be monstrous
to inflict the death penalty), that the
offender and his wife should have been
submitted to the painful and distressing
ordeal of having the death sentence
pronounced. More than ten years ago
the then Archbishop of Canterbury
(Geoffrey Fisher) denounced this kind
of procedure as “intolerable” and “a
degradation of the majesty of the law”.
In this case one commentator wrote
“No consideration for a distraught
wife, for the hapless child, or for him-
self warrants the deliberate extinction of
a human life”. Yet it is surely bitterly
ironical that the principle that the
deliberate extinction of human life is
unwarranted should be thought some-
how to be upheld by the pronouncement
of a sentence of death. Of course con-
siderations of this nature inevitably lead
far beyond merely questioning the
appropriateness of the Western Austra-
lian system which makes it mandatory
to pronounce the death sentence. It is
just two hundred years since Cesare
Beccaria in his epoch making “Essay
on Crime and Punishment” (1764) re-
marked the incongruity of our seeking to
inculcate the lesson that private homi-
cide is wrong by practising public
homicide. At one time it was possible
to reply to this by arguing that capital
punishment had a uniquely deterrent
force; and that therefore we faced a
straightforward choice between taking
the murderer's life or, by refraining
from doing so, condeming innumerable
future homicide victims to death. To-
day, however, we know that there is no
evidence from the accumulated statistics
that capital punishment has any"
uniquely deterrent effect or is in this
respect superior to imprisonment. The
abolition of capital punishment does not
appear to have led to an increase in the
homicide rate anywhere; nor has its re-
introduction led to a fall. In the cir-
cumstances it is difficult to see how
those concerned about the sanctity of
human life can consistently support the
death penalty.
No mercy for mercy killers
course not everyone regards human
life as having an absolute value.
Those who advocate euthanasia do not,
for example. Curiously enough the
Benn case has provoked little discus-
sion on this subject but rather dogmatic
statements like “Society cannot tolerate
mercy killing . Yet it is interesting to
note in this connection that so eminent
an authority on the criminal law as
Dr Glanville Williams is extremely sym-
pathetic to the idea of the euthanasia
of hopelessly defective infants. In his
“The Sanctity of Life and the Criminal
Law” (1958) he maintains that the
legalization of euthanasia for handicap,
ped children can be. supported not only p
on eugenic grounds but also, and more
importantly, on humanitarian grounds
both on account of the parents, to
whom the child will be a burden all,
their lives, and on account of the handi]
capped child itself. Moreover, he add
that it would bring the law into close
relation to its practical administratior
“because juries do not regard parents,
mercy killing as murder” Of course anv |
one who advocates such a policy ma |
well be in a minority, but it is scarce!
sufficient to dismiss the whole questioi
with the words “Allow one mercy kill
ing and the door is at once opened I j
many others” as one leader writer di
the other day. If this was intended I
mean that lenient treatment of thos
guilty of mercy killing will inevitabl)
lead to an increase in this type o j
offence it is clearly mistaken. St Johi
Stevas points out that “quite oftef
mercy killers in the United States ai ;
not indicted at all”.
In England in such cases early releas
is ordinarily always granted. In hot
countries, too, it is quite common ft [
these offenders to be convicted of ma: j
slaughter and given light prison set |
tences. Yet in both countries sot
cases have remained rare.
On the other hand it may be that it,
writer intended a reference to tfc
familiar “wedge” argument or princip l "
according to which once a concessit
about the disposability of human life -
made in one sphere it will inevitab
spread. But if so it must be said tk
there is nothing axiomatic about tlr 1
The idea that officially sanctioned to i
ing inevitably tends to lead to gene'
tolerance of homicide is not borne o ; ,
by experience. After all we did o ■
in the immediate post-war years, desp
specious pleas of the “They gave hi
a gun . . type, tend to regard p eaC
time violence as any less objectionah (
None of this is intended to sug£ f
that Dr Benn was entitled to do whatf
did; or that we should lightly disrega'
or reject our traditional attitudes 1
wards the sanctity of human life.
it does seem curious that the t ai
assumption that life of whatever q ua '‘J
must be preserved and prolonged 1
whatever cost in human suffering shou
go quite unquestioned. These are
ters which should be subjected
rational discussion. Statements to '
effect that “the law has been vindicate
suggest that we are dealing with son l
pagan deity that must be p r °P*
rather than with an extremely f J 1
and imperfect human institution.


“The Representative”
A Roman Catholic commentary
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
Rolf Hochhuth's documentary
drama, its name rather inaccur-
ately translated as “The Repre-
sentative” (though not so disastrously
as in America where, despite generations
3f Wild Western folk culture, some
hardy soul translated it as “The
Deputy”), may be considered in two
ways: in terms of historical accuracy,
*nd, without reference to recent events,
; >mply in terms appropriate to a work
dramatic fiction. Considered either
way the play is finally unsatisfactory,
an d for much the same reasons: Pope
jPius XII is placed in a false predica-
pent, one that is both dramatically and
historically inadequate.
This is a pity in many ways, not the
east being that “The Representative”
ljj s ’ , in P a rt, a very moving and pene-
l-ratmg and, indeed, magnificent play.
M| he dialogue is in free verse and even
l|| owing for the difficulties of transla-
T n S from the German, the language is
J n . turn splendidly rhetorical, passionate,
' Vlt jy and dialectical, and always lively
md economical. There' are some
drawn characters; chief
yriongst these are Kurt Gerstein, the
./ardmal, and The Doctor.
11 77
I n the March 28 issue of The
jL ULLETIN w e published a Jewish com-
en taiy on “The Representative”.
Gerstein, an Obersturmfuhrer of the
SS, is in reality a pacifist anti-Nazi, who
has insinuated himself into the terror
apparatus because he believes that “dicta-
torships can be abolished only from
within”. One of his self-appointed tasks
is to report to the outside world on
Nazi crimes: “Seven hundred and fifty
persons/in each of four chambers—/
each room with a volume of sixty cubic
yards—/three thousand human beings
. . . The gassing operation takes twenty-
five minutes./ Now they want to speed
it up . . . Like marble columns the naked
corpses stand . . . With hooks they're
pulled apart. Jews have to do that
job. Ukrainians lash them on with
whips”.
The Papal Nuncio in Berlin and his
young Jesuit assistant, Riccardo Fon-
tana, are contacted by Gerstein and
urged to rouse the Pope to protest.
Gerstein grows in power and dignity
until, inevitably, he is caught giving
succour to the victims of the SS. Ger-
stein is a wholly credible character but
his major ally, Father Riccardo, who,
after Pius, is the central figure of the
play, is not so convincingly created,
Riccardo, aristocratic and brilliant, is
intended to be the hero of the drama,
the counterpoise to the unheroic Pope;
but Hochhuth too often confuses hero-
ism with hysteria. When the young
priest fails to convince the Pope and
his Curia to break with the Nazis and
publicly denounce the atrocities against
the Jews, he forms a plan to assassinate
the Pontiff and ascribe the crime to the
SS; he even tries to persuade the Father-
General of a religious order (presum-
ably the Jesuits), one of the Pope’s
senior ministers, to assist him. The
whole scene is incredible and indicates
a serious deficiency in Hochhuth’s
imaginative grasp of his subject, namely
Christian martyrdom. One cannot ima-
gine a sensative, intelligent, good young
Jesuit arguing: “He who said, I bring
not peace but a sword, must also have
reckoned with the fact that it would
one day be turned against the first of
his followers. And the Church must
know it, too, as She has always used
the sword herself . . . Could Judas have
declined? He knew he was damned
to all Eternity. His sacrifice was
greater than that of God?”
At the nether extreme of the play
Hochhuth has created with skill and
intensity a collection of Nazi officials:
Adolf Eichmann, of infamy an indus-
trious retailer in the cause of wholesale
death but also described by the author
as “amicable and pedantic ... as color-
less as any of his contemporaries who
enjoy studying railway timetables and
want to get on in their jobs at any
price”; Professor Hirt of the Waffer SS,
anatomist and skull-collector, gross,
idiotic, and cruel; Sabyer, head of the
German police in Rome; and the
Doctor, “cold and cheerful when not
invisible. He has the stamp of absolute
evil”.
The Doctor is a most interesting and
effective creation, the nadir of the
drama; he is not so much a man as the
devil. The doctor enjoys the spiritual
and physical sufferings of the tormented.
Based on the person in charge of the
“medical operations” at Auschwitz con-
centration camp, this mysterious over-
seer takes pure cerebral delight in the
cruelties and barbarism surrounding
him. The author was assisted in crea-
ting him by a letter from a survivor
of Auschwitz who thus described a
doctor at the camp: “There he stood be-
fore us, the man who made the deci-
sions of life and death, the beautiful
devil ... he stood there, like an affable,
elegant dancing master, conducting a
polonaise . . . The atmosphere about
him, light and graceful, contrasted com-
fortingly with the brutal ugliness of the
surroundings ... a master of his sub-
ject, a devil, with a joy in his work?”
The Doctor is a triumph of Hochhuth’s
craftsmanship.
The dramatic logic of the drama is
heavily built around the person of Pope
Pius yet he appears only once, in
Act Four. The chief characters, Ger-
stein, Riccardo, The Cardinal, Count


SELECTIVE VIEWING AND LISTENING
A new heart for Graham In homes across the nation, a
human heart lay bare to the surgeon’s scalpel. To a background of operating theatre sounds
and the words of the surgeon, ABC viewers shared the drama and inspiration of the life-
giving operation that mended the hole in a child’s heart. This was the 60-minute docu-
mentary—“A new heart for Graham”—produced in Australia by the ABC as a contribution
to mature, thoughtful TV viewing. To the hundreds of thousands who watched, it
meant a unique opportunity to observe and evaluate the miracle of modern surgery through
the intimate eye of the TV camera.
Such commentary on the world around us is typical of the selective programming offered on
ABC television and radio. It is not necessarily material with mass appeal. But it is
of absorbing and vital interest to those who must choose their programs with care. Your
taste could run to music or drama. Or controversial panel discussion. Whatever it is, the
ABC caters for the selective viewer and listener. Check the daily programs carefully . . .
you will find new values, new pleasures
when you tune ABC.
/BC
THE NATIONAL TELEVISION AND RADIO SERVICE
mtmm
■ ■
WmmMSmmm
• •'.«
' -v*
.
w 2&:
«§&
m
BST
-.
\w
,
.
mmmmrn
ABC1(85)R
Courtesy Royal Alexandra Hospital Jor Children, Camperdown, N.S.W.


r
i
m
has better balance
and flavour
than almost any
whisky
you have tasted.
Try it!
Fontana, all direct their energies and
our attention to the question confront-
ing the Pope: should he denounce to
all mankind the Nazi crimes against
the Jews? Even in the scenes portraying
the Nazis, the Pope and the possibility
of his intervention, loom large. So
through scene after powerful scene the
tension mounts, the paths to Rome are
trodden faster, Gerstein and Riccardo
grow in stature, the SS men set more
demoniacally about their foul business.
And then, suddenly, we are in the Papal
Palace, face to face with His Holiness.
What sort of a man is the Supreme
Pontiff? He is vain, petulant and
petty. For Three Acts Hochhuth has
laboured effectively to build an atmos-
phere of awe, expectation, and excite-
ment at the impending battle of wills
and wits, the confrontation between
passionate Christian idealism and pru-
dent Vatican diplomacy. But “The
Representative” we see here will not
carry the dramatic load necessary. The
Pope here portrayed is cold-hearted and
fatuous, preoccupied with such things
as the Jesuit investment in the mercury
|mines of Tuscany. He is far too “small”
a figure to be a worthy adversary for
Riccardo and Gerstein. Dramatically,
Hochhuth owes us and himself a much
larger character than this chilled, aloof,
aristocrat who displays not the marks of
Ithe Gospels of Jesus Christ but rather
the sign of “The Prince” of Macchiaveli.
Seeds of a failure
irr
Vet, on second thoughts, it is mislead-
ing to suggest that Hochhuth has
destroyed much of his fine work in one
quick, disastrous scene. The seeds of
this failure are sown very early in the
play, and deliberately. No one is going
to be allowed to think that Pius is
caught between any moral Scylla and
Charybdis. Those commentators are
wrong who say that Hochhuth’s “Repre-
sentative” is portrayed as torn between
the desire to intervene to help the Jews
i an d the desire to be silent and avoid the
I real possibility of causing worse evils,
jin this play Pius is cleverly trapped in
- quite a different situation.
I Take only a few of many examples:
ln the second scene Adolf Eichmann
u Sa - Vs to Salzer, the Police chief: “God
D amn it the Nuncio in Rumania has
just this minute started to stir things
J ll P, too/ The foreign bishops aren’t so
I angerous/ but a Nuncio as representa-
I ,ve of the Vatican . . ./ there’s nothing
l|!' e can do about it; we’ll just have to
, e^ Ve Slovakia in peace for the time
ein g. Shit!/ All we need now is the
| german bishops, too . . ./ If they start
outing blue murder about the Jews,
I s ey did about the mental defectives
|| j' ! a °d if the Nuncio in Berlin adds
rum P us ’ things will start looking
' ' •>
In Act Two, titled “The Bells of St
Peter's”, Riccardo protests to his father
Count Fontana: “Oh, Father, Galen’s
example proves my point!/ He pro-
tested in the middle of Germany/ in
the summer of ’4l, against the murder-
ers —/ Hitler’s star was at its zenith,
and look:/ he was allowed complete
freedom of speech./ Not for one
moment was he arrested;/ and the re-
sult of his protest was that the sick/
were no longer liquidated./ It needed
just one bishop to stand up—/ and,
Hitler drew back at once./ Why?
because he feared the Pope . . ./ the
Pope who did not even/ support
Galen’s protest./ Father, the Pope is
the only man left whom Hitler fears”;
Later in the same act the young
Jesuit says of Pius: “I mean, he does,
after all, hold himself very aloof/
from the fortunes of the world, of man-
kind. For forty years/he has been
purely a diplomat, a lawyer. He was
never/. . . a keeper of souls, a priest
among men./ He has never vouchsafed
one word to any of the/Swiss Guards
before his door. Neither in his garden
nor at his table can he/bear the face
of a fellow creature . . ./ Father, does
he love anything whatever/outside his
dictionaries and his cult of the
Madonna/ (suddenly full of hate, with
flashing Roman mockery) . . ./ I no
longer ask myself, whether he has ever/
in a single one of Hitler’s victims/been
able to see his brother in his own
image”.
In Act Three, Salzer, the German,
talking with Gerstein about the deporta-
tion and extermination of Italian Jews
alleges: “Berlin will certainly not risk
Gerstein cooking the Jews from Rome/
straight away: the first consignment
will/be going to Auschwitz/ via Mau-
thausen. If the Pope protests, we can
always send them/back home again.
They used only be put in the ovens
when we're really sure/he’s no longer
interested in them”.
I use only these few passages out of
dozens similar in order to show what
Hochhuth has done: he has placed his
audience in the position where we know,
in terms of the play, that it is virtually
certain that a strong Papal protest or
denunciation will save the Jews, or at
least a significant number of them. We
are made fully aware that the Pope
knows of the extent of the Nazi crimes
against the Jewish race and it is strongly
inferred that he must know that his in-
tervention will help them. Pius is tried
and convicted of criminal irresponsi-
bility long before he appears on the
stage. And the reasons for his behavior
are also given: the Pope is insensitive to
the sufferings of others, and, no matter
how many Jews Tire gassed, he will not
do anything to harm the Nazis if such
actions would speed the Russian victory
over Hitler in Eastern Europe or dam-
age the finances of the Catholic Church.
Reasons for restraint
Quch a Pope as Hochhuth constructs is
no moral match for Riccardo and
Gerstein and never could have been.
The playwright has, in fact, been at
odds with himself throughout the first
three acts. He has carefully labored
to increase the tension, the pace, the
moral urgency of the drama so that
these may be brought to a fitting cli-
max in Act Four, whilst at the same
time he has been busily constructing the
personality of his central figure, Pope
Pius, in such a mould that this anti-
hero can carry very little moral or
emotional weight.
No doubt Hochhuth would reply that
this dramatic collapse is necessary for
the sake of historical accuracy. His
play, which contains some of the clas-
sical elements of great tragedy, must
also be a “documentary drama”. If,
indeed, the Pope’s silence about the
persecution of the Jews made him co-
responsible for the extermination of


millions, then surely only the most
bigoted would complain of the way in
which “The Representative” makes its
case. But Ido not think that Hochhuth
is historically accurate about this.
“The Representative” is a man who
knows that his intervention will cer-
tainly assist the Jews in their plight,
and who is willing to sacrifice them for
entirely inadequate and disgraceful
reasons. But his man is not, in my
view, Pope Pius XII. Pius was in a
different predicament: he did not know
whether a loud and clear Vatican de-
nunciation of the Nazi persecution
would cause more harm than good. He
may have made the wrong decision,
but not at all for the reasons that
Hochhuth suggests. The Pope may be
allowed to speak for himself: (1943, in
a personal letter to the Bishop of Ber-
lin) “We have been consoled to hear
that Catholics . . . have shown much
charity to the so-called non-Aryans in
their plight . . . We leave it to the
local shepherds to judge whether, and
to what extent, it might be advisable
because of the danger of retaliation and
pressures in the case of episcopal public
demonstrations and because of other cir-
cumstances due to the length and psy-
chology of the war, to exercise restraint
ad maiora mala vitanda (to avoid
greater evils). This is one of the rea-
sons why We Ourselves felt obliged to
exercise restraint in Our public pro-
nouncements”. Speaking to the Diplo-
matic Corps in 1946 Pius further ex-
plained. “We also had to have regard
to Our duty to indicate evil and any
action needing condemnation, while at
the same time We had to avoid using
expressions that would have been more
harmful than beneficial, above all to the
nations which were under the oppres-
sor’s yoke”.
Ernst Von Weizacker, the German
ambassador to the Vatican in World
War 11, supports Pius’ statement of the
position in his memoirs: “Not even in-
stitutions of worldwide importance such
as The International Red Cross and the
Roman Catholic Church saw fit to
appeal to Hitler on behalf of the Jews
or to call openly on the sympathies of
the world. It was precisely because
they wanted to help the Jews that these
organisations refrained from making
any general and public appeals: for they
were afraid that they would injure
rather than help the Jews thereby”.
Two questions
¥>ius must have been made cautious by
the fact that after the Dutch bishops
condemned the Nazis for deporting the
Jews, the SS replied by immediately
going further and deporting Catholic
converts of “non-Aryan” descent.
There are really two questions here:
would the intervention of Pius have
mitigated the Jewish suffering? And,
should Pius have spoken out against the
evils even if there was great danger of
"Gee, 10½d. I didn't know you could make a living out of the violin."
causing greater evils to descend? Most
of the evidence suggests that Hochhuth
is wrong about the first. Pius was un-
able to save the 3000 priests murdered
by the Nazis; nor was he able to stop
the Nazis closing many Catholic schools
and seminaries. It is true that Hitler
preferred to be on reasonable diploma-
tic terms with the Vatican; but Hoch-
huth and nobody else have been able
to produce factual evidence that the
“Final Solution” would have been halt-
ed or hindered by Vatican encyclicals.
The available documents suggest that
Pius believed he had no hope of alter-
ing any major Nazi policy and that he
held back his denunciations in order to
remain able to bring influence to beat
in small ways (e.g. preserving the inde-
pendence of monasteries which harbor-
ed Jewish and other refugees, inter-
ceding on behalf of arrested clergy),
and to avoid greater evils, (e.g. the per-
secution of faithful German Catholics).
Because he avoids facing the real
choice which confronted Pius Xll
Hochhuth has been forced also to fal-
sify the personality of the Pope. It is
true that Pius had little of the warmth
and spontaneous generosity of the late
Pope John; it must also be conceded
that some of his letters and encyclicals
display a disagreeable, pretentious and
arid Latin verbosity; unfortunately he
was as much diplomat as Pastor. Bn!
he was never the small-minded, insen-
sitive, careerist that “The Representa-
tive” is.
The British Ambassador, Sir Alec
Randall, has described him in these
terms: “Pius XII had his limitations of
character, of temperament; in this Popes
are no exception to the general run of
mankind. There was in him .. • ;
certain reserve which critics might call
coldness, a certain aristocratic shyness
which some might think of as aloof-
ness . . . On a less superficial level b
could be fairly described as flexible
prudent, ‘diplomatic’ compared with to-
predecessor who, with his great <t ua "
ties, was inclined to be impetuous aw
unyielding . . . Deep respect rather that
deep affection was inspired by P |tl!
XII”.
And yet the question remains. Arc
there not certain crimes which deman
outcry from all honest men? Are then
not certain inhuman sufferings imp ose
upon one's brothers under God thaj
demand any comfort possible, even 1
only given from the tongue? Are no
some persecutions so monstrous that |D
the face of them silence is almost com
plicity? Does not the extermination-
the gassing, the shooting, the starving j
the degradation of millions of P e °?J
make a moral calculus which contain
terms like “the prevention of B rea .j
evils” sound hollow? Tragedy, s .
Hegel, is not the clash of right
wrong, but the clash of right and rig


/?
***
4
<r>
4
20
HONGKONG
BANGKOK ft
KUALA LUMPUR
SINGAPORE
KUCHING
■■■
(TSy
an
$
§
i
fssg
Fly Malaysian Airways Silver Kris Jet-it is the
last word in travel comfort in South East Asia
Hongkong, Bangkok, Kuala Lumpur, Singapore
and Kuching.the nerve centres of the' region;
are connected by frequent weekly flights..
Consult your travel agent
or QANTAS, our general
sales agents in Australia
If you want to visit Penang,
Borneo and other places within
Malaysia, then our extensive
internal services operating
new Fokker Friendships will
get you there quickly and
comfortably.
MALAYSIAN AIRWAYS
*
t!Z
SERVING SOUTH EAST ASIA


OUT AND ABOUT
1. The Bard in the Outback
Strange tales of Shakespeare
By HECTOR BOLITHO
It w'as because of Shakespeare that I
first emigrated to Australia from
New Zealand, in 1921. I had already
turned over the pages of a First Folio
in the Auckland Library; but this w'as
slight reason for the astonishing adven-
ture. Allan Wilkie, the actor manager
who had produced Shakespeare’s plays
in Australia and New Zealand, for many
years, happened to be sitting next to
me at breakfast in an hotel in Welling-
ton. I w'as only 23 years old, but he
trusted me. He confessed that he wished
to produce a quarterly magazine, devoted
to Shakespeare, and that he did not
mind if it lost money. He was looking
for an editor and he offered me the
task. I sailed for Sydney within a few
days, more frightened than any man
W'ho had landed there before.
During my two years in Sydney I
had three remarkable adventures re-
garding Shakespeare and, since this is
the 400th anniversary of his birth, the
stories should be told.
The first was soon after I arrived. A
supposedly First Folio of Shakespeare
had been found in the Mitchell Library.
It had been taken to Australia by the
English actress, Essie Jenyns. I went
to see it and I met the director. My
eyes remembered the First Folio I had
seen in Auckland, and I knew that
something was wrong. I dared to
suggest to the director that this was a
Second Folio, with some of the pages
missing. He had already discovered
this, but, with the generosity of a great
scholar, he gave me the credit. When
the story appeared in the newspapers,
it began, “Hector Bolitho, the young
editor of the ‘Shakespearean Quarterly’
has discovered . . .”
The gesture, from a scholar, to an
awkward beginner, made me love Aus-
tralia. Which I still do.
The second surprise came in a letter
from Mrs A. Barlow, of Toowoomba,
Queensland. She sent me a photograph
of a supposed, contemporary portrait
of Shakespeare that had been brought to
Australia by her ancestors. The paint-
ing was on copper and its possible
history, generation after generation, was
recorded on the back. Mrs Barlow wrote
that she believed it was painted by
“Cornelius Janssen Van Ceulen”.
I went to the Mitchell Library and
found that Cornelius Janssen Van
Ceulen was a contemporary of Shake-
peare’s and that he had been to Strat-
ford in his day, to paint portraits of the
Lucy family. But I was cautious. On
the back of the painting, of which Mrs
Barlow sent me a photograph, w'as
enough information to trace it back to
1628; then the family tree of Mrs
Barlow’s ancestors, as far as the stalwart
colonist who brought the portrait to
Australia.
Some suspicion made me hold back
from publishing the story, and the
portrait, in the Quarterly. And I was
right. I found out, years later, that
Mrs Barlow’s painting was based on an
engraving of Shakespeare made in 1719,
by George Vertue. The Director of
the National Portrait Gallery confirmed
this. It was nevertheless romantic
that someone had believed the legend
written on the back of the picture, so
that they brought it all the way by sail-
ing ship to Australia; and that it had
survived the wild life in early Queens-
land, into the 20th century.
One day Allan Wilkie returned to
Sydney from his tour with a remark-
able manuscript. In a far-away town,
I think, in West Australia, he had met
a woman who claimed that she was
descended from Shakespeare’s master at
Stratford Grammar School. Her family
had emigrated to Australia in the 1820 s.
The story of the Shakespeare association
had been handed down, and she wrote
it, for Allan Wilkie, as best she could
remember.
It seemed incredible that a woman
who said she had never read any of the
plays, or seen them performed, until
Allan Wilkie went to her town, could
invent such a tale. It was also odd that
such a narrative, with so many details,
could have been handed down, from
parent to child, in the backblocks of
Australia.
Once more I was cautious. I did not
publish the story in the ‘"Quarterly” and
therefore, what follows, appears in Aus-
tralia for the first time. The woman
wrote; —
“William Shakespear was born in
Henley Street, Stratford-on-Avon; he
was a healthy, lively child, and was
described by the old wives as being as
‘full of mischief as an egg was full of
meat’. He was very quick to learn any
children’s games, but when he was sent
to Grammar School he was one of the
dullest ones there. The Head Master,
the Rev. Thomas Jenkins, was sent down
from London with a royal commission
to take charge of the school ... As the
child (Shakespear) was too fond of
looking at everything and everybody but
his horn-book, the teacher took charge
of him, and himself taught him beside


VISITING
TUF
UNITED
STATES?
ENJOY SUPERB HILTON COMFORT AND VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY!
You've almost certainly heard about
Hilton comfort and hospitality. And
all those nice things you’ve heard
are quite true.
What you may not have heard is
how very reasonable it all is. What
excellent value you get for your
money when you enjoy Hilton hos-
pitality in any Hilton Hotel or Inn
in one of 27 cities throughout the
United States.
Skyline of downtown Houston, Tex.
And here’s what you get for your
money: a comfortable room that’s
fully air-conditioned. Courteous,
helpful service from Hilton person-
nel, many of whom speak your
language and a half-dozen others as
well. And helpful little touches
like changing your Pounds, Francs,
Guilders or Marks into Dollars.
Food? Ah, here’s where Hilton
hospitality excels itself. You can
enjoy anything from a modestly-
priced snack in a Coffee Shop to a
gourmet meal in a fine restaurant in
any Hilton Hotel or Inn.
Children? We love them. And to
prove it, there’s no extra charge for
your children who share your room.
So visit the U.S.A.—the Hilton way,
and bring the family along. No
matter what your itinerary, you’ll
almost certainly be able to enjoy
Hiiton hospitality. If you’re visiting
New York for the 1964 World’s Fair,
you can select from among five great
Hilton Hotels. Then, if you decide to
explore California’s glorious Pacific
coastline, you’ll find Hilton hospi-
tality at the San Francisco Hilton,
opening May 25, or the Hilton Inn
at San Francisco’s Airport. If Los
Angeles is on your route, there's the
Statler Hilton or the Beverly Hilton.
And if you decide to range over
Texas, you shouldn’t miss the lovely
Shamrock Hilton in bustling Houston
or the Statler Hilton in Dallas.
■
■•- ■ :
wmm §§§m Ha— m m
■ IliitllllllUUl
: $ * ii 4
J } .t u *
1 HJU
Civic Centre in Lcs Angeles, Calif.
Golden Gate Bridge, San Francisco, Calif.
For reservations in any of the
Hilton Hotels and Inns in Twenty-
seven cities throughout the United
States see your Travel Agent, Airline,
Steamship Company or any Hilton
Hotel Reservations Office. In Sydney
28-4673, Melbourne LA 1281, Tokyo
851-4567, Osaka 202-1212, Hong Kong
29011.
SEE THE U.S.A. THE HILTON WAY
CONRAD N. HILTON. PRESIDENT
HILTON HOTELS AND INNS IN THE U.S.A.
In New York City
The Waldorf-Astoria
The Savoy Hilton
The Statler Hilton
The New York Hilton
at Rockefeller Center
In Chicago
The Palmer House
The Conrad Hilton
and in these cities
throughout the
United States
Atlanta, Ga.
Boston, Mass.
Buffalo, N.Y.
Cincinnati, Ohio
Cleveland, Ohio
Columbus, Ohio
Dallas, Tex.
Dayton, Ohio
Denver, Colo.
Detroit, Mich.
El Paso, Tex.
Hartford, Conn.
Honolulu, Hawaii
Houston, Tex.
Kansas City, Mo.
Los Angeles, Calif.
Milwaukee, Wise.
New Orleans, La.
Pittsburgh, Pa.
San Francisco, Calif.
Portland, Ore.
Seattle, Wash.
St. Louis, Mo.
Tarrytown, N.Y.
Washington. D.C.
HHS/64/3Q


improving on perfection
PRAKTICA cameras and Mercedes-Benz have several things in common.
They are both among the oldest and most respected German manufacturers
in their fields. Long years ago, when many of today’s cameras were not
even thought of, PRAKTICA were making fine cameras. Today, like the
Mercedes-Benz radiator and star, the appearance of the PRAKTICA has
changed very little. But inside, every worthwhile feature of a good SLR
has been built in to make it the finest camera you’ll ever use. With
PRAKTICA you have the choice of 25 interchangeable lenses, 28 mm. to
1,000 mm. See your HANIMEX Dealer soon. Let him show you the full
PRAKTICA system of camera models, lenses and accessories. Ask him to
explain the versatility of PRAKTICA and you'll understand why more Aus-
tralians have bought PRAKTICA than any other brand. Models £39 to £65.
The 1964 PRAKTICA Book, containing 247 pages, is now available from your nearest
Hanimex Dealer, or send 39/6 to HANIMEX, Brookvale, N.S.W.
Manufactured
by VEB
Kamera-und-
K mower he,
Dresden.
Fitted with
world's
finest lenses
o'22°-v
mm
'fAN-'
HAIiIMiX
UAP12J 64
his desk, until he knew enough to join
his class . . .
“The child became a quiet, industrious
lad, but when about 12 years old, Queen
Elizabeth came to Kenilworth Castle,
passing through Stratford where she
was entertained. It was, I think, on
this occasion that John Shakespear
offended Sir Thomas Lucy by walking
before him as an older Knight’s
privilege.
“The name of Shakespear was first
borne by a tall man who was attached
to the royal bodyguard and who was
present during one of the battles, when
he saw an assassin stealing up to a royal
person—either King or next heir (I can-
not remember which). He snatched a
spear from an armor bearer and ran the
assassin through, just in time to save the
victim intended. For this he was sent
for and knighted on the field, and given
a spear and commanded to walk before
royalty on public occasions for three
generations and to receive a grant of
five yards of scarlet cloth annually . . .
Uf FHE strolling players staying in Kenil-
worth attracted the attention of
Willie, then a smart lad, and turned his
attention to the play; and being coaxed
to try some parts, he quickly picked it
up and was easily the best. Next he
was persuaded to leave home at night
disguised as a 'Mummer’ and taken on
to Kenilworth . . . During the festivities
he played the part of a ‘Merry Andrew’
before the Queen, who daily watched
him, and for which she tossed him a
gold token from the balcony at the end
of the festival, which he kept till after
he went to London.
“As he grew up he never forgot the
first sight of Court life and it unhinged
his teacher's plans—for which they had
his parents’ consent —to train him for
the Church; and never could they for-
give him for doing so as they had set
their hearts on it and taught him for
that purpose. A clergyman who
preached his funeral service said, if
Willie had entered the Church, so great
was his knowledge he would have
become one of the greatest bishops of
his time.
“However, his life was upset and he
could not settle his mind to any trade
. . . Through the losses by plague and
other trouble, his father (who owned a
small farm and also a glove trade m
town) had to put his son to work to
help to maintain the family. He used
to write accounts for tradesmen who
could not do it and he always made a
verse on everyone he worked for, but
after trying several things he was a
failure.
“Now, the cause of this was his
fancy for play: his mind was not ia
any work in the rural district and he
longed to go and see life. He got a


The stimulus of extra finance provided by ASL helps keep
goods on the move. Commercial and industrial development
in many forms is financed by the Australia-wide ASL
organisation.
There’s a trained consultant at any ASL branch to advise and
assist you on the best use of finance for vehicles and equip-
ment, hire purchase, leasing, real estate and many other
purposes. Fast, fair, friendly! That’s ASL finance.
Sydney, 25 5281; Brisbane, 21991; Melbourne, 67 6551;
Adelaide, 8 7183; Hobart, 2 2426.
ircrirD am
THE MOVE
U/ITU ACI
wl 1 H AS L
FINANCE
■‘ /
\
A
/
V &Y
A
FINANCING INDUSTRY AND TRANSPORTATION SINCE 1926.
ASLIS.IO-3
| name for laziness, classed as too dull
to learn a trade, as other boys less
gifted could do, and he was disheartened
and discontented with his life. He would
lie on the banks of the river and write
on any paper he could get hold of; his
first long poem being The Swan on the
Avon in which he paints the Queen
as a graceful swan surrounded by three
cygnets, or three ladies-in-waiting, sail-
ing gayly down the Avon.
‘This afterwards gave him great favor
; with the Queen who had a long neck
and was flattered by it, and ever after-
wards wore the frills round her neck
.to attract attention to it.
;“Qoon after, being so discouraged and
(.. not often in work, he was too much
in company of young men who led him
•into pranks, and he joined them in
(Stealing deer from Charlcott Park
(but not to take home, although he joined
in the suppers in the meadow, for his
mother's family and Sir Thomas Lucy’s
were old enemies and he would not
insult his mother by bringing anything
from Charlcott into the house.
‘'lt was the moonlight chase with the
(keepers that was the best fun, not the
' meat supper. However, he was recognised
(and locked up with the others, but
•escaped.
'The verses written and put on the
“Lodge Gates [of Charlcott] were really
written by Willie, for revenge for suing
his father, but purposely written in very
vulgar language, to avoid suspicion. But
as he was the only one who wrote verses
he was soon discovered. [He] could
never pass Charlcott without a smile at
the recollection of the Squire's anger
”' v en an apparently ignorant lad went
up to the Great House to inform him
at a Proclamation or something else
aS fastened to his front gates, bringing
' Ir Thomas .with his gold-topped cane
read it for them.
However, things went too far and
1 le > to avoid trouble to his wife and
nmiy, went to London, riding all the
U P. He had previously been kind
' * tr ° upe of gypsies at Smitherfield
re they camped, being afraid of Sir
i r SQui maS ’ WaS a hitter, hard old
; evnl? . one occas l°n a very old
ioffered 7 u V ‘ tCh ’ 3S they Were called >
future life * DOt and teU him his
. agreed* S of amusmg to him and he
much- tu 6 to^d him he dreamed too
■ idling k- at t 0 act Woldd he better than
in hie re tlme awa y; that a great change
lhewl h W ° Uld take p,ace ’ and that
?reat See ® reat s '§hts and become a
i na me Tw u He WOuld be the last of his
taken- kJ S ouse >. quickly given, quickly
he in th 3^ er b * S dea th, which would
star wmua Pnme b Le, his fame like a
°[ the , r , ISe and s hine in every part
°Hd and never dim . . . That


BIG
CANADIAN PACIFICS
so % FARESAVER REDUCTION!
Big savings for you! On your way to Europe travel by Scenic Dome across
Canada for just £lB . . . and Canadian Pacific is the only Scenic Dome
through Canada’s mighty Rockies. See world-famous mile-high resorts at
Banff and Lake Louise. The Scenic Dome route puts you in a different
world . . . and it’s the world’s most exciting, spectacular rail journey.
Information and Reservation:
Elder Smith, Goldsbrough Mort Ltd.
Offices in all capital cities.
(General Agents throughout Australia.)
All the way you’ll receive Canadian
Pacific’s renowned personalised
service. Write for illustrated
literature.
s**
i.
Travel
iNCORPOHATED
TRAINS / TRUCKS / SHIRS / PLANES / HOTELS / TELECOMMUNICATIONS
WORLD'S MOST COMPLETE TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM
iM
BY SCENIC DOME
.
was the reason that he went to London
to try his fortune.
“When he went there he had many
trials, but the first chance he had of
doing any real good was by being what
he called himself, a ‘Printer’s Devil,’ at
a printing house owned by a printer
named Ford: and from that time he had
a home amongst them until he was
better known. Then he joined literary
friends, and success crowned his efforts
through his writings and his stage plays.
He came once a year, harvest time, to
Stratford, to spend a holiday with his
friends; and was always welcomed in
the town as he brought news from the
great city.
“He had great trials at first, as I.am
told people were then not educated and
could not understand his not working
at a trade in his own town. He was
received at Court and it was the Queen
herself who gave him the name of
‘Sweet William’ and handed him the
token, a flower well known. I do not
know much of his life in London, but
some of his schoolmates also went up
and settled there; and there were some
who were partners with him in theatres,
I believe, and made money.
“Shakespear’s shortest speech—l had
this in an old print until about four
years ago when I lost it, but I remember
it well. At a meeting at Chapter House,
where some religious conference was
held, Queen Elizabeth and her Court
and bishops were present, and a learned
divine gave a long, tiresome speech
making everyone present weary. After
it was at last finished the Queen, who
had observed Shakespear crossing and
recrossing his knees during the long
debate, said to him, ‘What hast thou,
William, to say in this matter?’
“All his literary friends looked at him,
knowing he was not prepared to give
an address, but he rose at once and,
facing her, said, ‘This only, Madam:
Read more, Teach more, Pray more,’
and bowing low sat down.
“You know better than I”
“Oilence fell, and the Court soon
broke up. His friends who knew he
could quote Scripture from cover to
cover had discussion on his short speech,
but they recognised that in those few
words he had conveyed as much as the
learned Bishop in his long speech.
“The rest of his life you know better
than I, who never yet had a copy of
his works. But some that were not
published for many years were found
in his desk, and some sent to friends;
but the final one was the Kenilworth
one in which the masked knight and
Grey Lady walked the terrace at night,
and for the plans of which he went to
the ruined castle to see.
“He grew careless of his writings in
later years. It was about fifty or sixty
years after his death that the world
realised that he was a great man, and
then they wished for more of his plays
and sought out those whom they thought
had them. I do not know how it was
they found his friends so easily, but the
Jenkins family and the connections were
very faithful friends to the Shakespears
in their misfortunes and it was to some
members of that family they went,
Instead of using courtesy they sent a
party of ‘play actors’ to demand from
them certain writings they desired . . .
especially the Kenilworth tragedy. Had
they stated that it was for the honour
of Shakespear they wished to get them,
they would have got some, but they
boasted that they had made him in
London. They were quickly told that
he had written verses and acted before
he went to the city, and they refused
to give them up, as they were not
satisfied. Then they used threats and
w'ere sent away.
“Again another party went to inquire
the part played by Willie at Kenilworth
as they wished to produce the act as he
had himself played it; but, at a theatre
. . . owing to the leader, a Gentleman


This is a drive to work that really makes sense
Driving to work along the fast, wide highways of Mackellar County gives you time
to think...to plan your day...to make decisions. Travelling time is cut...you can
leave home later and still arrive in your office earlier than before. You are fresh,
relaxed, ready for the day’s responsibilities.
Mackellar County lies north of Sydney, covering the territory between Manly and
Palm Beach on the east, and from Seaforth, through Bantry Bay, French’s Forest
and Terrey Hills to Pittwater on the West. The industrial areas have been carefully
planned to keep them within a short distance of the city, yet to make them attrac-
tive, and close to existing residential, commercial and recreational districts.
Mackellar County encourages industrial investment.
The industrial areas are only ten miles from the heart of the
city, yet surrounded by unspoiled bushland. Careful inter-
relation of industrial and residential areas close to main
highways, public transport, schools and shopping centres
have put this county years ahead in area development
planning. Mackellar County provides an efficient system of
arterial highways...plenty of space for growth and expansion
...pleasant surroundings for greater plant efficiency...estab-
lished residential areas for both executives and staff.
For complete details, write in confidence to the Chairman,
Mackellar County Council, 48 Sydney Road, Manly, New
South Wales.
■v
MACKELLAR COUNTY
3
NEW SOUTH WALES
23
player, trying to bribe them to silence,
and let him produce and publish the
Kenilworth play as his own work, they
indignantly told him they valued the
Shakespear honour and Stratford rights,
more than a purse of gold . . . After this
some of the manuscripts were placed in
Safety; but I do not know where, but no
more was heard from the players.
“It is certain that Witty Will never
left England, for though tempting offers
to France and Italy came, he refused
to go, being warned by the gypsy pre-
viously that if he ever trod on foreign
soils he would be killed by a jealous
rival abroad.
“I used the name ‘Witty Will’ for-
getting that you did not perhaps know
it, but it is the most familiar to my
family, as it was bestowed on him as a
schoolboy, as he had such a ready excuse
for his mischief, and his wit often saved
him from punishment.
"After his w isit to Kenilworth he used
to round up town boys and teach them
Tom-fool games, and many are still
played there.
“I never heard much of his wife, but
certainly he sent money when any trust-
worthy friend came back from London;
and, strange to say, many of his earliest
school friends married connections of
Jenkins and Ford family—my father’s
side, some on both male and female
line and they were evidently faithful
to Witty Will’s memory.”
This ' strange narrative, which was
handed to Mr Allan Wilkie, CBE, in
Australia, 43 years ago, ended:—
I am sorry that more of his works
were not published, since seeing your
performance, and I now realise what the
world has lost. My object in writing
to you before, was to ask you to con-
tradict any statement that he was born
°r lived in any other part of the world,
as he was well known, taught, and a
belong friend of my ancestors, and his
memory still lives in our hearts. My
memory is not very good now: I ought
to have written this earlier in life. Should
jcircumstances bring to my mind any-
mg worth adding, I will let you know.”
either Allan Wilkie, who now lives
l ln Edinburgh, nor I dared publish the
narrative. Many years later I sent a
Co P) of it to Miss Marchette Chute,
author of “Shakespeare in London’’, who
"'rote to me:
My guess would be that it is com-
P genuine as far as the woman
erse is concerned. She is recording
ami y tradition just as she heard it and
reasurcd it through the years. As for
ere it originated, it was probably some
enkms ancestor of hers in the 18th
r, n . UI A w h° had done some reading in
akespeare biography and brooded over
in k matter so l° n g that it came to life
j is mind. The mistakes in fact, which
! numerous, are the kind that would


"Z {/
/
1
/
I
%yU
s
K&.'Jl
mm
r> - • •
H
It
i
§?
§
H
Choose from the wonderful
range of colours
GLOBEMASTER Syphon (double capa-
city); colours: Ruby, Silver Leaf,
Wedgwood. Old Gold, 169/-.
HOSTMASTER in Ruby, Pale Green,
Wedgwood, Poppy, Cornflower, Prim-
rose, Old Gold, 122/-.
De-Luxe Streamline Model in gleaming
chrome, 157/9.
Every syphon complete with Bulbs—
available almost everywhere. (Prices
slightly higher in some areas.)
i Sparklets syphons
Sole Australian Agents: Wilmo Division, Monsanto Chemicals (Aust.) Limited
the gift
for that
certain
party!
Give the gift that shares its fun for
years and years: a Syphon by
Sparklets (makers of the original
soda-syphon). It's the sensible way
to make soda-water. Just a finger-
touch and you liven any summer
drink with the sparkling boost that
only fresh soda gives. And Sparklets
have styled these syphons in the
shapes, sizes and decorator-colours
for today’s kind of living. They’re
the sparklingest gift idea ever.
Sparklets syphons
Sole Australian Agents: Wilmo Division, Monsanto Chemicals (Aust.) Limited
Gift for the man
who has everything!
If ever he’s struggled to open a
bottle of wine, he’ll appreciate
this. Simply insert "Corkmaster’s”
needle—and the cork dramatically
removes itself! Quite surprising.
Quite effortless. Quite the perfect
different gift . . . Sparklets <
“CORKMASTER,” 54/-
complete with gift box.
Sole Australian Agents: Wilmo Division,
Monsanto Chemicals (Aust.) Limited
m
{ /


952/52/64 N
MN
Q
O
SEND GOODS SAFELY - ON TIME!
For goods which must get interstate the next day,
use the new MN STARLIGHT SERVICE! Fast overnight
transports take goods interstate for prompt delivery
the following day.
Door-to-door delivery and radio controlled pick-up
vans make this daily Mayne Nickless service reliable
and convenient. Ring your nearest MN office now!
MAYNE NICKLESS
LIMITED
for every transport need
be current about that period, and the
longer they were handed down ra the
family the more incontestable they
would become
The celebrations of the 400th year
since Shakespeare s birth w.ll no doubt
bring forth many strange and unproved
series about him. Someone has sa.d
that history is something that never
happened, written by a man who wasn’t
there”. But it is strange that a portrait,
and a legend, were treasured in the
wilds of Australia, with utter faith in
their authenticity. What is true is that
Shakespeare’s “Henry the Fourth” was
staged in Sydney as long ago as April,
1800. A surprising and delightful
historical fact to make us believe that
the criminal colony was not as criminal
as is believed.
2. Still Top of the Bill
Four hundred years of Shakespeare
By J. C. KAYE
As you will have heard, things are
swinging on the Shakespeare scene.
The Russians have brought out a
stamp to mark the fourth centenary of the
birth of the Bard. In Hong Kong they’re
to do “Midsummer Night’s Dream” in
Chinese. In Sydney certain people are
planning to get stuck into mead and
stuffed peacock. In Melbourne, April 23,
the birth date, will see the opening at
the Comedy Theatre of “The First Four
Hundred Years”, a selection of costumed
and acted scenes from several of Shakes-
peare’s works put together by Alan Dent
and two of Britain’s theatre knights, Sir
Laurence and Sir John.
The scene was quiet, however, one re-
cent night as I visited the Cafe Latin in
Lonsdale Street at coffee time. Keith
Miehell, who plays the leads in “The
First Four Hundred Years” with Googie
Withers, was half to five-eighths weary
at a table for two. I suspect that so
Vuis lovely wife, Jeanette Sterke, who
sat opposite him, but women, with their
impressive resilience, are better at hiding
these things.
Keith Miehell, the Port Pirie (South
ustralia) lad who has become, at 35,
one of the world’s best-esteemed Shakes-
pearian actors, had not been hitting the
mead, although he cleariy felt like hit-
lns t e sack. Actually he had spent a
°ng day of rehearsals, from 10 am to 5
m, swiping at Miss Googie Withers in
scene from “The Taming of the
rew He answerec j m y q Ues tj ons w ith
e ' mannere d, and I believe totally
thm CCted ’ c^arrn ’ Hut I should confess
ti ln View °f his after-work exhaus-
with m to s P ea * c ’ Ihese were not pressed
the remorselessness which is the
mar k of my profession.
tNi e \. Schell, who is back in Aus-
tin t 3 - er y ears > was last here with
ouring Stratford Memorial Theatre.
Vo ' S n a ta h> well-built fellow, with a
face ° ° aian 'Emperor type of head, the
We for nose and i awline , is
r a Shakespearian actor. His
voice, trained to a “neutral” accent suit-
able for stages in England and America
as in Australia, is sonorous. He also
sings—as he did in the UK and US
long-runs of “Irma La Douce” and
paints and draws.
His career, I note, fills about five
inches already in the English “Who’*
Who in the Theatre”, which records, for
those interested, his many Shakespear-
ian roles, his other successful appear-
ances, and his parts in films (for Rank
and Korda) since he quit being an art
teacher in Adelaide, back in the mid
’forties, went on the stage, and then made
it to the Old Vic Theatre School in
England.
Ele has certain clear ambitions still.
One is to do an Australian play here be-
fore he returns to England towards the
end of this year. He has in mind a
work by an Australian in London, Alan
Pullman. It is set in the outback, is
said to have “epic” possibilities, and has
been highly praised by those in England
who have seen it in manuscript. His
other ambitions, natural in a Shakespear-
ian, are to play the great roles of Hamlet,
Lear, Othello and Macbeth.
He said he found Australia “exciting”,
which is a formality in visiting and re-
turning notables, but went on to give a
more interesting reason. He sees Aus-
tralians as among the last people in the
world who still have a clear spirit, whose


*y. *
IS*
mmm
r-I*. 4
.
k'- ' r
m tm " ■ ••-*►■“ • 1
As« ' ' ' * " ;
.
■ i<- ' ’•* %&&&&
ppPlli
■ .;*> .;. m*?:
y ; : V: -
.'■- %£
■
yy
%
;
-4%
Jm
• :
.
:
:
Film made from Geon vinyl resin is Used in the manufacture of Plastalon Marine Wear.
is a lifesaver
1963
J SERIAL No. f
Over the waves, safely, in protective wear made with
Geon vinyl resin. In the manufacture of life lackets, life belts and other marine wear,
Geon is a friend in deed. Tough on the job, film made from Geon withstands the
abuse of sunshine, salt water, soft water ... is wear and tear resistant. Soft and pliable,
it allows freedom of movement, is colour-fastly bright for easy "spotting”. More and
more manufacturers are discovering how Geon improves products or helps evolve new
ones. Have you a product we can help improve or develop?
B. F. Goodrich-C.S.R. Chemicals Pfy. Ltd.
Kororoit Creek Road, Altona, Melbourne, telephone 65-8221 or 2. Kalamazoo House, 182-186 Blues Point Road,
North Sydney, N.S.W., telephone 92-6319. GEON Agencies in W.A., S.A. and Q'ld. Harrisons & Crosfield (A.N.Z.) Limited
MS6I4A


WE MAKE DISAPPEARING CHAIRS
It’s no trick—anybody can make 30 Sebel chairs disappear into one
chair. How? Simple. Just stack them each-on-the-other. Floor area
saved: 29 chairs multiplied by their own area. That’s the advantage of
stacking chairs—one of the types of seating which we know more
than a little about. Please contact us if you have a seating
problem. I’ll be surprised if we don’t have the solution.
Chair-man.
The “Stak-a-Bye” from
the range of 23 Sebel
Chairs—every one well designed
and sturdily made for specific
seating purposes in clubs,
halls, hotels, etc.
N.S.W.: Sebels (Aust.) Ltd., 96 Canterbury Road, Bankstown. Phone 70-0771,
VIC.: Sebel Sales Ltd., 151 Dandenong Rd., Windsor, S.l. Phone 51-7063.
QLD.: Sebel Sales Ltd., 208 Wharf Street, Brisbane. Phone 2-6963. S.A.: Evans
Agencies Ltd., 9 Lindes Lane, Adelaide. Phone 8-1038. W.A.: Carlyle & Co. (1959)
Pty. Ltd., 1-9 Milligan St., Perth. Phone 21-9331. TAS.: NU Sales Distributors,
Merii.o St. Launceston. Phone 4-9886.
5E5.65. 85Sc
gtfMW
\
J
:<a
FREE: 2 booklets: Atomic Motoring
Age, Historical Facts, Motor
Repairs, Economy Hints.
NU-MOTO-LIFE NU METAL (Pat.)
OVERHAULS WHILE-U-DRIVE
REPLATES worn engines, upper
cylinders, main bearings, diffs,
gears. SAVES rebore. ENDS piston
slap, rattles, oil/petrol waste. Also
decarbonises. RESTORES new com-
pression power, top speed zip.
SAVES. Adds £sd to resale value.
GUARANTEED 25,000 miles. No
results—no pay. Harmless finest
engine. SIMPLE. Add Re-Nu ex-
panding liquid Nu-Moto-Life Nu-
Metal to oil, petrol or plug holes
Testimonials, engineers' reports,
free advice available. Open Satur-
day morning. Distributors required.
Sold only by RE-NU CO. (Estab.
1932) 58 Swan St., opp. Rich-
mond Stn., Vic. 42-1755. 4,6,
8 cylinders: 60/-, 70/-, 80/-,
Call, Post, Phone Now.
(ORDER FORM)
I enclose £ for Nu-Metal.
Name.....'.
Address "BUL."
or send for free particulars
describing action NU-MOTO-LIFE
NU-METAL.
YOUR GARAGE
DESERVES GENUINE
‘FLOATING ACTION’ garage door fittings
From Hardware stores ever/where T .is4/2
hope is not broken, who are, to put it
bluntly, nor yet “sick”. With this
feeling in him, he sees as much signifi-
cance in the simple physical facts of
Australian life —the open space, the
many wide city streets, the new styles of
building—as in the direct manner of the
Australians, and in their ways of speech.
He was playing in Beynon’s “The
Shifting Heart” on TV recently when
nostalgia hit him hardest. He doesn’t
feel able to talk much yet about what’s
happening in the Australian Theatre. He
is not one of those who knock JCW’s
with their imports of overseas long-runs.
This may be partly tact, but he makes
the point that JCW’s can only keep
going if the> fill their theatres, and that
if their shows fail commercially the
blow to Australia would be great. “It’s
in the hands of the people,” he says.
He emphasises the value of our smaller
theatres, and when he comes to do his
Australian play he’ll be choosing a small
theatre himself, possibly the Union at
Melbourne University.
Smaller problems
IJe likes TV, and is uneasy in films,
with their long delays, and restraints.
He finds the TV screen a sensitive in-
strument for recording nuances of voice
and facial movement. It is permitting a
delicately sculptured but powerful form
of Shakespearian acting which has never
before been possible to audiences.
He enjoys work in the theatres in the
round which are opening up all over the
world now. He has done a lot of acting
at the new one at Chichester, in England,
and is looking forward to seeing the New
Fortune Theatre in Perth. The impact
on an actor of having the audience all
around you, he says, is tremendous.
There are smaller problems. At
Chichester he had to slide down a
banister. This wore a hole in the seat of
his silk pants. This made new pants
necessary, whereas on a normal stage
be could have kept the damage out of
sight.
Keith Michell doesn’t mix much with
theatre people outside his work, he
explains, although the Oliviers and other
notables are his friends. He finds too
roany theatre folk “a little peculiar”.
llt he s amused to pass on tidbits of
theatre talk such as the way Jay Lerner,
ln USA, has created a musical about
extrasensory perception. He’s happy
Cat the Olivier-Joan Plowright marriage
ls such a success, and pleased that Sir
aurence won’t be kept off the stage by
new job as manager of Britain’s
National Theatre.
1 drove him and Mrs Michell—who
„ has major roles in “The First Four
undred Years” back to their hotel
1 ast Melbourne. Yes, he was a little
i| re ' would do an hour of learning
nes ’ sa *d and then to bed.


How long since you looked at your
Insurance Policies?
What about those insurance policies?
Are they arranged to the best possible
advantage? Do they cover every impor-
tant need? When, and under what cir-
cumstances, will they be paid? Above
all, are they suitable as to size and type
to do the job you want them to do?
It is not hard to find the answer to
these and other related questions. Ask
for an A.M.P. FAMILY SECURITY
CHECK-UP.
FOUR POINT '
FAMILY SECURITY
CHECK-UP
Your A.M.P. man knows, from training and
experience, how to help you—
O Check the facts related to your present family and
financial position.
0 Check the extent of your needs what would be
required if your family had to live without you
what you will require on retirement or to take
advantage of long service leave.
© Check to find if the provisions you have made are
adequate.
O If they are not, your A.M.P. man will show you a
family security plan tailor-made to your precise
needs and circumstances.
An A.M.P. Family Security Check-Up costs you nothing but a
little of your time—involves you in no obligation except to those
you love. All you have to do is to call in your A.M.P. man or
call the nearest A.M.P. Office.
AUSTRALIA'S
No. 1
LIFE OFFICE
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE
Offices in cities and towns throughout Australia and New Zealand
and in the United Kingdom.
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by assets approaching
benefit to members.
£ 700,000,000 which the
Society seeks to invest to the greatest
BHHSEKai


OVERSEAS
After Nehru—What?
India’s next P.M. won’t be a national hero.. .
By SIBNARAYAN RAY
MR Nehru is 74. He is old, ailing
and over - worked. His recent
illness was due as much to age as
to exhaustion. According to reports he
will possibly retire from public life in
J uly. The old question after Nehru
what? has now an urgency which even
his most ardent admirers may no longer
avoid.
The question has several implications.
Nrst is the issue of stability. Will
ohru s loss plunge India in chaos and
political disorder? Secondly, even if
stability is maintained, will there be a
significant change in ‘lndia’s policy
oonaestic and/or international? What
'Rjpact will his loss make on the present
re ation of political forces in India
especially on the Congress Party?
mlly, if everything goes smoothly,
, °. ls his likeliest political successor and
w at will be his position in the changed
set-up?
As to the first issue, there is little
°u t that India’s political stability since
"dependence owes a great deal to
e rus leadership. The many centri-
-1 f° rc es in the country were kept
r go y in check by his personal mag-
SU c not obscure the fact that India’s
m.w B in harmonising democracy with
tabll, ty is due to a combination of
factors, Nehru’s leadership being the
most conspicuous. India inherited from
the British a relatively small but highly
disciplined army that had been trained
to serve as an unquestioning instrument
of civilian political authority. There
have been no indications in the past
decade and half, nor are there any at the
moment, to warrant the fear that the
Indian Army would disown this tradition.
India also inherited a well-developed,
modern administrative system which was
mostly manned by competent Indian
civil servants even before independence,
and which has on the whole stood
successfully the test of the last sixteen
years. It was certainly not Nehru’s
creation nor is it likely to disintegrate
after his disappearance from the political
scene.
Most important of all, India at in-
dependence possessed a sizeable intelli-
gentsia which could provide the country
with a responsible and experienced
democratic leadership. It contained ex-
tremists as well, both of the Right and
of the Left, but the main section was
and still is moderate, inclined by educa-
tion and experience to peaceful methods
of social change and to settlement of
differences through compromise. The
legislators who gave India her demo-
cratic constitution came from this section.
Nehru’s leadership certainly strengthened
this section; but if it were not already
there, he might have met the fate of
Indonesia’s Sjahrir. Not only did this
section provide the leadership of the
Indian National Congress and of the
other democratic parties that later on
splintered off from the parent organisa-
tion. From it came India’s outstanding
journalists and shapers of public
opinion, educationists, social reformers
and members of the learned professions,
leaders of community projects and
architects of three successive Five-Year
Plans. Nehru’s personal efforts would
have been hardly fruitful without
effective support from this section.
The centrifugal forces which threatened
India's unity and stability at indepen-
dence are still there, but their pressures
have been substantially reduced. Caste-
divisions, multiplicity of regional
languages and cultures, ,distrust between
Hindus and Muslims and rivalry between
the North and the South these
potentially disruptive factors may yet
bring the Indian democratic experiment
to an inglorious end. However, the
record since independence would suggest
that they have on the whole been kept
successfully within bounds and that
India has developed a political system
and a national leadership very nearly
capable of bearing the strain of these
pressures. As to the threat from sub-
versive movements and extremist organ-
isations, the Communist Party of India,
which until recently was quite powerful
in some of the States, has had a major
setback in consequence of China’s in-
vasion of India in 1962 and is now
engaged in a deadly fight between its
pro-Moscow and pro-Peking factions.
Without underrating its power of re-
covery, it nonetheless seems that in the
immediate future the CPI is not a very
great danger to India’s stability. On the
extreme Right, the quasi-Fascist Hindu
Communal organisation called the Rash-
triya Swayam-Sevak Sangh, which had a
strong lower middle class following in
North and Central India during the early
’fifties, has not shown much sign of
activity in recent years. Its chances of
making a serious bid for power after
Nehru are slender, barring a war between
India and Pakistan.
The more fundamental dangers to
stability come from population-growth
outstripping economic development and
lack of competent leadership in rural
areas. India’s future largely depends on
her success in tackling these serious
problems, but there is little justification
for thinking that Nehru’s loss will make
them any worse than they have already
been during the period of his un-
questioned leadership.
As to changes in policy, certain trends
in recent years seem likely to become
more articulate after Nehru. In no field


r *•
7 j- 'h
f &
I
DISCERNING
travellers are com-
pletely sold on Swiss-
air .. . for all their
travel . . . everywhere.
Let Swissair do a sell-
ing job on you next
time you fly to Europe.
Excellent connections
to all key cities on the
Continent.
You can join a Swissair flight almost
anywhere in the world. Swisscare can
start for you in the Far East. Board a
‘Coronado’ Jet in Tokyo, Hong Kong,
Manila or Bangkok and fly, overnight,
to Europe. See your Travel Agent
about your Swissair business-with-
pleasure trip.
SWISSAIR
General Sales Agents:
Australia - ANSETT-A.N.A.
New Zealand and Pacific Islands TEAL
Meet Switzerland’s greatest
salesmen at home, see beautiful
Switzerland and its industry, fairs and
the products of its world-famed
craftsmanship . . .
LAUSANNE
EXPOSITION
April to October, 1964
has Nehru’s influence been more pro-
found than in that of foreign policy.
Since 1959, however, his neutralism has
been under fire both inside the Parlia-
ment and outside. After China’s attack in
1962 and India’s military debacle, there
was a virtual revolt even within the Con-
gress Parliamentary Party which led to
the removal of the then Defence Minister,
Krishna Menon, from the Cabinet. Sub-
sequently, the results of the parliament-
ary by-elections clearly showed that
public opinion had begun turning against
neutralism which in actual terms had
amounted to appeasement of Chinese
expansionism. The deepening of Sino-
Soviet conflict has of late somewhat
blunted the edge of anti-neutralism, but
there is nonetheless growing demand for
a more realistic foreign policy which
should be based on the recognition that
India’s survival and territorial integrity
depend vitally on military support and
economic assistance from the industrial-
democratic countries of the West. This
demand is likely to get stronger in the
coming years.
Defence planning
'Oelated to this realism is increased
stress on defence planning which has
so far been largely neglected on the as-
sumption that India’s neutralism would
guarantee her against aggression. India's
last budget underlined the change, but
it is obvious that India with her limited
resources would be hard put to reconcile
increased defence outlay with her already
inadequate programmes of general
economic development and social wel-
fare. The pressure of the problem is
likely to strengthen forces in the country
which advocate closer ties with the West,
improved relations with Pakistan through
some mutually acceptable settlement over
Kashmir, and steps to facilitate bigger
inflow of private foreign capital. There
are also indications that in planning
greater emphasis will be placed on agri-
cultural improvements, small scale rural
industries and family planning than has
been done so far, and larger scope pro-
vided for private enterprise.
Such developments are sure to have
repercussions on the relation of political
forces in India. Since independence,
Communists have been the main political
opposition to the Congress. During the
last two/three years their position has
come to be challenged by the Swatantra
Party which is outspokenly opposed to
neutralism in foreign policy and to
socialism in domestic policy and which
has grown rapidly despite bitter de-
nunciation by Nehru. At present it has
about 26 seats in the House of the People
and 166 seats in the State legislatures
(against 33 and 201 Communist seats
respectively). It is a conservative party
which is nonetheless unambiguously
committed to democratic principles and
practices. Although there seems no
likelihood of its gaining the majority in
the Federal Parliament in the foreseeable
future, there is sufficient reason to
anticipate that in the next elections it
will replace the Communists as the main
opposition. It is also possible that after
Nehru a section of the Right wing inside
the Congress Party may break away and
either form a party of its own or join
the Swatantra Party. Moderates and
democratic socialists Would still control
the Congress and thus the Federal Gov-
ernment; but their reduced majority
will presumably make them more re-
sponsive to the increasingly powerful
anti-socialist and anti-neutralist opposi-
tion.
Even if a section breaks away from it,
the Congress Party would certainly not
disintegrate after Nehru. In the next
elections its majority may be reduced
appreciably in the Parliament, and in
two or three States it may even be
forced out of office. The Congress, how-
ever, does not lack in leadership or
organisation, and even without Nehru it
is sure to continue for quite some time
as the biggest and most popular party
in India. However, it has no charis-
matic leader to succeed Nehru. In fact,
the age of charismatic leadership seems
to be over in India.
What then is likely to follow is a new
structure of leadership more suited to
India’s democratic evolution. The next
Prime Minister will not be a national
hero but an able statesman from the
Congress Party who will be jnore
genuinely guided by his Cabinet than
Nehru has ever been. The likeliest choice
Js Lai Bahadur -Shastri who has been
sharing Nehru's burdens during his ill-
ness. He is a moderate democratic
socialist of proved integrity and com-
petence but without any charismatic
pretensions. In any case, in the new set-
up the excessive importance which the
office of the Prime Minister acquired
under Nehru will be reduced in several
ways. The President of the Republic,
who had been put in the shade by the
personality of the Prime Minister x'i"
presumably have more influence than hi
has had so far. The Parliament may also
contribute more effectively to the shapo"
of national policy than has been possible
due to the general feeling of awe to-
wards Nehru’s charismatic personality
The State Chief Ministers are also MjC'
to have a bigger voice in the Union
State relations. In short, Indian denio
cracy may become increasingly
centric without becoming less stable,
end of the Nehru era in Indian P o '
may prove no more catastrophic than
end of the Gandhi era sixteen years n-


21
FREE BOOKLETS ON THE
CATHOLIC
CHURCH
Very few non-Catholics
have ever had an oppor-
tunity to read a simple,
direct explanation of
what Catholics believe.
•“«a*
Now the Catholic Enquiry Centre offers
21 clear and concise booklets, by mail,
on the Catholic faith. They are posted
weekly in plain, sealed envelopes.
There is nothing to pay and no obliga-
tion. Nobody calls. Your name and
address are, and remain, confidential.
The booklets are written for non-
Catholics to give them an insight into
the Catholic faith.
Post coupon for details
Mi FREE and IN CONFIDENCE mi mi
BUS/2 I
Please send me details of your free
booklets in a plain, sealed envelope.
Mr./Mrs./Miss
(Block Letters, please)
Address
State
CATHOLIC ENQUIRY CENTRE
P.O. Box 63, MAROUBRA, N.S.W.
Mak
PIPE OR
CIGARETTE _
IN 3 BLENDS-
MILD * NUT SWEET • RUM
These distinguished, much sought
after blends are now sold by tobac-
conists. If not available write to
the blenders:
“THE TABAK COMPANY
50 Miller St., Nth. Sydney. 92 8489
Ai
Soviet’s Economic
Revolution
“Only inveterate dogmatists discern retreat ..."
By EDWARD CRANKSHAW
The Soviet Union is now in the
throes of an economic revolution.
It is impossible for an outsider to
see just what is happening, but there
may be consolation in the evident fact
that few Russians can see much more
clearly. Government and Party are
caught up in one of those formidable
historical processes which were the de-
light of Karl Marx and Tolstoi in their
very different ways. The leaders no
longer lead, but are simply pushed
about.
This is of great importance to the rest
of the world, because the direction in
which Mr Khrushchev is being pushed
is ever farther away from Marxist-
Leninism. Already the hazards of the
nuclear age have put an end to the drive
towards world revolution. Now the
organisational problems of a large in-
dustrial society are calling for import-
ant modifications of the Leninist posi-
tion on the domestic front.
It is not easy to illustrate the general
trend because Soviet politicians, in-
cluding Mr Khrushchev, have lately
been contradicting themselves more fre-
quently than usual. Locked in day-to-
day conflict with the harsh emergencies
of economic and social reality, they
show every sign of failing to see the
wood for the trees. It is an enormous
wood.
In discussing the Soviet economy, it
has been convenient hitherto to think
of it in the way the Russians think of
it, as being divided into three: heavy
industry, light industry and agriculture or
food production. This habit of thought
could pass muster when there was not
enough to divide; when, as until quite
lately, heavy industrial expansion, with
no set ceiling, had absolute priority over
everything else; when the consumer was
left unsatisfied and the peasants, half the
total population, were left to worry
along as best they might, so long as they
could provide just enough food to keep
the factory workers fed.
But as soon as the partial satisfaction
of the consumer became a necessary
political aim and this also called for
a sharp rise in the volume of food pro-
duction the division became arbitrary
and absurd. The belief in the opposi-
tion between heavy and light industry
nevertheless persisted and still distorts,
*f it does not positively inhibit, most
Soviet thinking about economics.
The sacred cow of heavy industry still
has to be genuflected to, even by Mr
Khrushchev, who for some time has
been toiling to achieve a properly inte-
grated economy. Thus, defending his
great investment programme for the
chemical industry, designed primarily to
benefit food production and the deve-
lopment of plastics, Khrushchev got as
far as pointing out that the chemical
industry cut across all artificial divisions.
The chemical industry served heavy
industry, light industry and agriculture
impartially, but instead of drawing the
proper conclusions from this, and ex-
tending them to other industries, he
showed that his chief concern was to
demonstrate that his beloved chemical
industry was at present overwhelmingly
orientated towards the needs of heavy
industry, and that therefore further
heavy investment in it was in order.
“Only inveterate dogmatists can discern
a retreat from the general line here fi.e.,
priority for heavy industry]. No, this is
a further development!” he proclaimed.
I offer this only as one example,
among hundreds, of the way in which
dogma and doctrinaire reasoning come
between the Soviet leaders and reality at
every turn and prevent them from draw-
ing useful conclusions from their inter-
mittent glimpses of the truth. A simi-
lar state of affairs exists, of course, in
most other countries, and always will
exist. But it is in those countries which
subdue their economies to a rigid ideo-
logical test that the conflict between the
real and the ideal can assume a seriously
damaging character.
All the Current Soviet discussions
about profit, incentive payments, price
revision, cost accounting and the rest,
must be seen against this background.
And so must Khrushchev's most recent
expedients to stimulate production,
especially agricultural, and to overcome
the imbalance of the economy which,
for years past, has been sacrificing the
Soviet people to the Moloch of steel.
His task is to improve matters radically
without openly evoking the law of
supply and demand and the techniques
of the market economy.
At the moment he is under great
pressure. Last year’s catastrophic har-
vest, which forced him to purchase 11
million tons of grain from the capitalist
West, was not, he knows very well, a
simple natural disaster. The great
Virgin Lands experiment had long be-
fore proved a failure, while for decades
past the ' traditional food-producing
regions of the Soviet Union had been


+****■'
m
INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTIONS
From tiny points to “giant” 36" size, thousands of
Australian Abrasives grinding wheels are today contributing
to the vast revolution of Australian industry.
Wherever there’s hard, tough work or fine, high-precision
work —wherever quality and speed and economy count, there
you’ll find Australian Abrasives grinding wheels.
There, too, you’ll find AA engineers and AA Distributors’
representatives, ready to contribute their accumulated
knowledge and experience to any grinding problem.
If you have such a problem in your plant, let us share
it with you. Our advice is yours, free for the asking.
;4 xiW
>X':
m
m
m
m
AUSTRALIAN ABRASIVES
AUSTRALIAN ABRASIVES PTY. LTD., 302 PARRAMATTA RD., AUBURN, N.S.V/,
AAS(


©
Q
a
Q O
■■
-
No need to lift the handset
on this transistorised
LOUDSPEAKING TELEPHONE
fust push the button and talk!
Ideal for inter-city conferences—P.M.G. approved—
replaces existing telephones.
(If extra privacy is required, the handset can be
used in the normal way.)
• r
For immediate demonstration Phone 2 0233, Ext. 274, Telephone Systems Division
MANUFACTURERS SPECIAL PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.
47 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
r«n
mi
9926 N
m
AT *ANSETT
FREIGHT EXPRESS
OVERNIGHT
ROCKET m
LEAVES FOR
MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
SYDNEY . BRISBANE • PERTH
Telephone calls to our “pick-up” sections will be
promptly attended to by radio controlled vans which
pick up and deliver in all capital cities.
For full details and competitive rates phone:
Melbourne 68 0541 Sydney 67 0533
Adelaide 45 5337 Brisbane 47 1481 Perth 24 4926
falling abysmally short of their poten-
tial, farmed wastefully and ruinously
by sullen peasants still resenting the
collectivisation and, because of the lack
of investment funds, condemned in any
case to work and live on a primitive
level.
Khrushchev must know perfectly well
that nothing short of a radical recon-
struction of the whole agricultural
system will ever enable the country to
build up large enough reserves of food-
stuffs, animal as well as human, to with-
stand the sort of body-blows inflicted
by nature in 1963. But he is still only
tinkering with the problem incentive
payments and old-age pensions for col-
lective farmers; stepping up investment
above the planned level; the great
drive for fertilisers and their proper
utilisation; insisting on the return to the
farm of trained agronomists who have
departed to city jobs in despair.
A long way from certitude
Cuch expedients are not enough. To-
day, with the consumer firmly in
the middle of the picture, it will
not work at all. Hence the general
tacit acceptance of Professor Liber-
mann’s introduction of the profit motive
into Soviet economics. Hence, too,
insistence at the recent Plenum of the
Central Committee on the necessity to
introduce “a system under which fac-
tories and enterprises would be respon-
sible for the quality directly to the con-
sumer . . . Whenever possible the con-
sumer should put his demands to the
actual producers of the goods.”
In Kiev, perhaps elsewhere, shops
have already been opened by individual
factories and trusts to serve as retail
outlets. Hence, too, Khrushchev’s re-
marks, again at the Central Committee
Plenum, again defending his chemical
investment drive: “All investments for
the development of the industry over
the next seven years will not only be
recouped but will result in a net profit
of about 15,000 million roubles.”
This is a very long way from the
simple certitudes of earlier decades,
when the Government simply ordered
that such and such products should be
turned out, regardless of cost in man-
hours and cash. And this sort of think-
ing goes hand-in-hand with the new
insistence on a re-pricing of all goods
in realistic (i.e., economically profit-
able) terms —ao operation that is to be
concluded by 1965, leaving very little
time for entrenched interests to adapt
themselves to the new climate.
It is so far removed, indeed, that the
Chinese have every right to accuse the
Russians of abandoning Leninist prin-
ciples.
(OFNS.)


Around Melbourne
WHEN MELBOURNE HAS 4.6 MILLION PEOPLE...
A ctually it is in the worst possible
bad taste to go in for com-
parisons, but then, don't you see, it’s
things in the worst possible bad taste
that always make the best reading.
Here in this town we have always
enjoyed making comparisons with
Sydney. Maybe this is because of a
small sense of inferiority. Until the
collapse of the Land Boom and the
great depression of 1893 Melbourne
unquestionably was the greatest. We
had the cash and the biggest popula-
tion. But in the ’nineties we lost
population by the thousand, and ever
since there has been a dream that
we might recapture our lost position.
Stand by, then, I have news.
In all but one of the years since
the 1954 census Melbourne’s popula-
tion has increased more rapidly than
any other city in Australia. Now,
according to the latest figures, Mel-
bourne has 2,003,100 people and
Sydney has 2,256,110. But here’s
the point. Melbourne is increasing at
the rate of 2.33138 per cent while
Sydney is increasing at only 1.779176
per cent.
The National Cash Register office
here fed this information into their
computer and here is the result . . .
By 1985 we will be ahead, when
Melbourne will have 3,325,807 com-
pared to Sydney’s 3,325,498. Then,
presuming that the same fine rate
of growth is maintained, by the
year 2000 it will be 4,699,260 to
4,332,520. After that, I’m afraid,
Sydney will be left far behind. By
2100 it will be 47,880,249 to
25,271,600 and by 2200 we will
have 471,840,946 to Sydney’s mere
147,409,945.
That settles one point. You try to
get ahead with population; on the
other hand you try to compete with
bigger buildings. In the nineteen
fifties we notched a noble triumph by
putting up the ICI building, the first
skyscraper by our standards and the
tallest in Australia. Then in 1962 we
completed the Conzinc Riotinto build-
ing, which was even taller—a splendid
324 feet.
Alas, the reign of the Conzinc
building was little more than six
months. Sydney finished its 29-storey
AMP building which was designed,
quite deliberately, we felt, to be
57ft 6in higher.
However, all is not entirely lost.
We have abandoned this crude chase
after heights, for now we have the
biggest building in Australia the
National Mutual Centre. It has over
500,000 square feet of enclosed space
and it will be ready for occupation
some time after September.
The Public Relations department at
National Mutual has been making
some comparisons. PR departments
love that sort of thing. They say that
the floor area will be the equal of the
playing area of the Melbourne
Cricket Ground or of the entire area
of Collins Street, footpaths and all.
'VJ’ormally, big buildings are not
1 ' very lovable. The Conzinc object,
for example, looks like a long drawer
that someone pulled out of a cabinet,
and there is an irresistible desire to
push that darned drawer in again.
However, the National Mutual Centre
is attractive. There are white marble
balconies all around on all 21 floors.
As someone pointed out, more marble
has been shown to the world on this
£4 million building than any time
since Cleopatra was filmed. Above
the balconies there are brass hand
rails, so with tinted glass behind there
is a pleasing contrast of black, white
and gold.
Best of all, though, the building
occupies only half of the very
splendid Western Market site. Out in
front there will be several acres of
plaza, trees, benches to sit on, and
we have even been promised a
sculpture and a fountain. Of course,
it would have been more attractive
had National Mutual built nothing
at all.
The old Western Market site at the
corner of Collins and Market Streets
was the last area in Melbourne which,
conveniently and cheaply, could have
been turned into a city square. For
years the Melbourne “Herald” fought
relentlessly to bring this about. Ah,
but city squares do not pay a quid
and city councils are only human,
financially. You see, the National
Mutual will be the city's biggest
money-spinner, with rent and rates
of £79,000 a year. So to salve every-
body’s guilt half the site was saved
for the public.
The interesting point for all Mel-
burnians will be the roof-top restaur-
ant on the 20th floor. Of all the lofty
buildings that have been put up in
this city over the past 10 years, no-
body has ever been generous enough
to give us a roof-top restaurant, except
in the Royal Automobile Club, and
that’s not open to the general public.
The hope is that this restaurant
will open on Grand Final night.
There is a view from three sides
which takes in Port Phillip Bay almost
to the Heads, then right across to
Mount Dandenong and Mount
Macedon. You would be wise to
order a table somewhere near the
south-east corner. It is more satisfy-
ing to look down on the gentility of
the Botanic Gardens and Government
House rather than the corrugated iron
roofs of Collins Street.
The space underneath is vast;
room for 512 cars. There is the base-
ment, the Flinders Lane level, the
Concourse level and then please
don’t call it the ground floor the
Plaza level.
Of course, the National Mutual is
not the only large building we can
boast about. There are at least eight
abuilding or about to be built, and
the handsome 24-storey BP building
in St Kilda also will be finished in
September. It has a curved front
rather like the Qantas building in
Sydney.
However, you Sydney people, if
you wish to compete with us during
1964 and 1965 make the National
Mutual your target. See that your
Australia Square project, for example,
has a floor area equal to at least twice
the area of the Sydney Cricket
Ground or twice the length of Mac-
quarie Street.
BATMAN


Why the
Commercial World
looks to Grinned
for
fire protection
yS'^L-,
l~\ YEARS LA
ajla
m:
B
£
t*
If you are in any way concerned
with your company’s fire protection,
you know automatic sprinklers are
the best protection you can have.
Grinnell is your leading source for
automatic sprinklers. And Grinnell
brings you total responsibility in fire
protection. Grinnell designs your
sprinkler system. Grinnell prefabri-
cates it. And Grinnell installs it. You
can also arrange for regular Grinnell
inspections.
Wherever you want fire protection
look to Grinnell, today’s most
advanced automatic sprinkler
systems.
iMSiacM
G 57.94
WORMALD BROTHERS GRINNELL
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER AND FIRE ALARM SYSTEM
A WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRY ® FIRE PROTECTION ENGINEERS SINCE 1889 •
WB
WB
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALANB


This
Mothers’ Day
lib*
m
i
I
i
1
&
Colibri
MonoGAS, the
world-famous lighter with the
constant flame. Colibri gives a
reliable, regular-sized flame
every time without regulating.
No flaring, no failures, just
Colibri constancy. For the
important woman in your life,
Choose from the many delight*
fql designs in the Colibri
MonoGAS range. An exquisite
gift she’ll treasure for a long,,
long time. From 112/6.
CjMU
monoGAS
the most gifted
lighter of all!
Distributed by Brown & Bureau Limited
fjjelbourne, Sydney, Brisbane Adelaide, Perth.
letters
the
editor
THE GULF COUNTRY
Sir,
I refer to Mr J. Daley’s letter on the
Gulf Country (21/3/64). It’s an in-
credible fact that there are still many
people who think of Northern Australia
as a land of “milk and honey”, which
only requires the spending of large sums
of Government money to make possible
the settlement of untold thousands of
people on prosperous farms. This idea
is all the more strange in Mr Daley’s
case, as he is a man who was settled on
a small farm with 2000 others in the
Upper Burnett area of Queensland in
1924. No doubt he went through hard
times there and is well acquainted with
the vagaries of the Australian environ-
ment. However, the Upper Burnett area
is a paradise compared with the Western
Cape York and Gulf areas of Queens-
land.
Mr Daley refers to the fertile land and
high rainfail, neither of which occurs in
this area. It is in fact an area, except
for small isolated areas of river flats, of
leached and eroded soils with a rainfall
that falls in the summer months of the
year when the evaporation rate is
extremely high. Consequently irrigation
is the only means of promoting any
form of intensive land settlement in
Northern Australia. And the economics
of all such schemes are suspect when we
still have large areas of land in the
southern States, with a good, reliable
rainfall, in close proximity to the centres
of population.
However, it probably can be argued
that we have a moral obligation to make
some effort to develop this land in
Northern Australia, which is so close to
the high population areas of Asia. But
they must at least be schemes where
there is sufficient suitable land in proxi-
mity to an area where adequate water
can be stored; and these factors don’t
apply to the region referred to by Mr
Daley. In fact it seems that the only
regions which can be expected to be
developed in Northern Australia in the
foreseeable future are the Ord River,
Victoria River and Adelaide River areas;
and even these will present enormous
technical and economic problems.
P. R. S. JACKSON
Leongatha (Vic.).
“SHEER FILTH”
Sir,
Why this tremendous pressure to
break down censorship? Is it a high-
minded fight for the freedom of the
individual? I can think of many greater
causes to which we seem indifferent.
Let us be honest; stop using high-
falutin words and ideas and call a spade
a spade. Parts of “The Group” are
sheer filth. I wish to goodness men
with minds would apply them to greater
tasks than justifying dirt.
What is advocated seems a form of
outworn 19th century liberalism
leave man to himself and all will be
well. This idea should have taken a
death knock with Hitler’s and Stalin’s
death and concentration camps. We
need to face the fact of evil and the
constancy of its attack and have no
naive ideas about human nature.
W. H. COFFEY
Melbourne (Vic.).
“ANGLO-CATHOLICS”
Sir,
My attention has been directed to
an article in The Bulletin headed
“Anglo-Catholics” (14/3/64). That
article criticises what it describes as
one of the unhappy results of the late
Archbishop Mowll’s stubbornness, “the
compromise appointment of the Rev.
Clive Goodwin (as he then was) as
rector of the fashionable and previously
semi-High Church parish of St Mark’s,
Darling Point.”
I happen to have been at the time
one of the Presentation Board, com-
posed partly of representatives of the
Diocesan Synod and partly of parish-
ioners of St Mark’s and therefore fully
informed as to the circumstances of
Mr Goodwin’s appointment. There was
nothing of the nature of a compromise
in Mr Goodwin’s appointment. When
the Presentation Board met to recom-
mend an appointment to the late Arch-
bishop, Mr Goodwin had for some time
been the locum tenens of the cure of
souls in the parish. He had so endeared
himself to the parishioners that their
representatives unanimously recom-
mended his appointment, and the dioce-
san representatives concurred with this
recommendation. There was, therefore,
nothing of the nature of a compromise
in such appointment.
R. CLIVE TEECE
Sydney (NSW).
JAZZ AND POP
Sir,
I was appalled and dismayed by the
vitriolic, bigoted references to jazz
music in Paul Johnson’s article on the
Beatles (21/3/64). First, he has erred
in confusing jazz music with pop music.
Jazz has its followers, but their number


" ■■■■■■;
V
u
■
: ' ■
I*" —•—_
Discover a new world of electronic accounting!
Burroughs Series E 2000 Machines combine the speed and
memory of a computer with an easy-to-operate descriptive
accounting machine!
Burroughs Series E 2000 Direct Accounting Computers bring
electronic speed and efficiency to the full range of business
transactions processed in today's busy offices.
Fully transistorised, with up to 100 alphanumeric words of
magnetic core storage... Series E2OOO machines perform functions
of computing, decision making or memory updating ... all in
fractions of a second! Electronic coding and reading of up to 20
words of alpha and numeric data from magnetic-striped account-
ing records provide automatic input of a maximum of information
Alpha and numeric data is printed out at high speed in practically
any format. The magnetic core memory system permits the
sifting of data into-sub-totals or distributions. Thus, in a routine
accounting run, management reports such as sales or inventory
analyses can be prepared as an automatic by-product.
In addition auxiliary data is captured in punched paper tape or
punched cards for use as input to a larger computer system or for
detailed management reports.
The new Burroughs Series E2OOO Direct Accounting Computers
are compact . . . and easy to operate.
[Burroughs is the machine to grow with...
This machine does not need conversion tor decima. currency
For complete information
on its application to your business,
simply call the Burroughs man
at the nearest Branch Office or write to
Burroughs Ltd., 40 Miller Street,
North Sydney, N.S.W. Phone 92-0851
BUI6OB


Mr. TERRY KELLET wishes to make
it known he has commenced business
as a Chartered Shipbroker and
General Agent in LeMessurier Build-
ings, 110 Lipson Street, Port Adelaide.
is hardly legion. It is still, as many
a jazzman who can’t get a “gig” will
testify, a musical form that has to re-
ceive a truly general acceptance. This
is especially true of contemporary jazz;
just because a musical form is not
classical does not make it popular.
I suspect that Mr Johnson has never
actually listened to jazz if he can actu-
ally criticise people intellectuals and
others for distinguishing between
the approaches to it of Fats Waller and
Dizzy Gillespie or Louis Armstrong and
Miles Davis. Though I don’t spend
hours arguing jazz, I have spent hours
listening to it (in not-so-malodorous
caverns and in concert halls) and
I see as much difference between Eroll
Garner and Bill Evans as there is be-
tween Chopin and Schoenberg.
Also, I take exception to the view
that if you dig Brubeck you are some-
how incapable of appreciating Bach,
Beethoven, Bartok or Milhaud.
CARMELITA M. STEINKE
WoUongong (NSW).
Sir,
What a dreary world if we were all
intellectuals of the same ilk as Mr Paul
Johnson would have us believe he is.
If what Mr Johnson tells us about his
adolescence is true . . . calculus at 16?
. . . then certainly he is an intellectual.
It does not, however, necessarily follow
that he is also intelligent, though he
quite easily could be, even if he does
give the impression of being just another
cultural snob.
BRUCE JAMIESON
Port Moresby (NG).
CHARLES HARPUR
Sir,
It is pleasing for one who has worked
for so long in the Charles Harpur field
to welcome Donovan Clarke’s selections
of his poems one of Angus and
Robertson’s new series. But the pleasure
is for me vitiated by his tiny “bio-
graphy” on page 50. Being a gentle
soul, I hesitated before deciding to point
out publicly some 15 or 16 errors its
30 lines contain one for every two
lines! But as an historian rather than
a literary man, I am fanatical enough
to value accuracy and truth above
everything else. And I think Harpur
important enough to make a search for
facts about him.
Consider seriatim the 15 emendations
of truth. Harpur was educated at the
government school at Windsor not
Parramatta; and his father was school-
master at Windsor not Parramatta.
He was in Sydney early in the 1830 s
living there at least as early as 1833:
he did not “go” there about 1835, nor
did he enter the Post Office that year,
but in 1836. “His first recorded publi-
cation” appeared in the “Currency Lad”
in 1833 not in 1837 in “Tegg’s
Magazine”, which, in reality was named
“Tegg’s Monthly Magazine”. This
periodical was short-lived: March to
July, 1836, not 1837. The sonnet Dono-
van Clarke refers to as being published
on 2nd December, 1837, appeared in
the “Literary News” (August, 1837, to
February, 1838) published by Tegg,
whose name, however, does not appear
in the title. At least 20 of Harpur’s
poems appeared in Sydney papers before
the end of 1837 in addition to his
play, the “Tragedy of Donohoe”. I gave
a list of these in a letter published in
“Southerly” a dozen years ago. Dono-
van Clarke refers to that letter. Harpur,
by the way, was 24 in 1837.
Harpur did not leave Sydney for the
Hunter in 1843, nor move to Jerry’s
Plains in 1844. He was in Singleton
early in 1842 if not before and
he moved to Jerry’s Plains before the
middle of 1843. Nor were most of the
poems he wrote between 1837 and
1843 published in the “Weekly Regis-
ter”. That paper was not started till
29th July, 1843, and, if I remember
rightly, it printed in 1843 only five of
his poems of which four were con-
cerned with the future Mrs Harpur,
whom he did not meet till he moved
to Jerry’s Plains! In 1849, he did not
apply for the local schoolmaster'ship,
and therefore did not obtain it. He and
his brother and others agitated for a
National School there, but Jerry’s
Plains did not obtain one.
Harpur married Mary Doyle in 1850,
it is true, but did not then turn to
sheep-farming but to school-teaching,
as a free lance teacher at Farnborough,
a long way from Jerry’s Plains. The
National Board was willing to appoint
him teacher at Farnborough, when a
school was built and after he attended
a teacher-training course in Sydney.
Later he taught at the Presbyterian
school at Muswellbrook then, after
a pretence of going to the Model School,
he took up farming. He never taught at
Jerry’s Plains or at a National School.
There are one or two other statements
of alleged facts for which I have seen
no contemporary evidence. And why
make it appear amazing or mysterious
that five children were born “between”
1851 and 1861? Let’s be exact and
make it less amazing: they were born
between 1850 and 1862 —since the first
was born in 1851 and the last in 1861.
It may be of importance in explaining
the mystery that the Harpurs were not
married till 1850 and that Mrs Harpur
was 41 when her last baby was born.
Finally, even the date of Harpur’s
death is given wrongly. He died on
10th June —not 8th —1868.
If publishing this miniature “bio-
graphy” was considered of importance,
these corrections are therefore of more
importance. Students, for whom the
series is mainly prepared, may find it
easier to tear out the page than to
attempt to amend its 30 lines.
J. NORMINGTON-RAWLING
Gladesville (NSW).
DISCONTENT IN THE SERVICES
Sir,
Discontent among RAAF officers?
What of members of the WRAAF who
are making a career in the Service? My
daughter, who had many years’ service
as a Transport Driver, Group 3, suddenly
found herself down-graded to Group 2,
with subsequent lowering of rates of pay.
At the same time RAAF members in
this mustering were up-graded to Group
4, the reason been given, vaguely, as
“payment for skill in operating specialist
vehicles”. The WRAAF only receive
two-thirds of male rate of pay in any
group; surely a difference of two groups
is hardly necessary the WRAAF is
already cheap labor.
Repeated enquiries by my daughter
as to why WRAAF drivers were down-
graded simultaneously with RAAF
drivers being up-graded have met the
usual blank wall of silence. This ano-
maly also has a long-range effect, in
that, upon retirement after 20 years’
service, the member might, of course,
be paid only Group 2 pension rates, in-
stead of Group 3.
A DRIVER’S MOTHER
Brisbane (Qld).
Sir,
I would like to commend your cover-
age of the discontent within the defence
forces. It now seems probable that the
delay in the Marks test case will induce
a proportionate delay in the announce-
ment of any improvements in conditions
of service, as Dr Forbes has indicated
that future moves by the Government will
depend on the outcome of the hearing.
Significantly, despite rumors of re-
criminations against supporters of the
fund, not one officer known to be
connected with the fund has been
reprimanded let alone charged with
any specific offence. It seems that the
only attempts made to hamper fund
raising have been veiled hints that
“supporting such a clandestine fund
may be illegal”—made by ill-informed
senior officers too remote from the facts
to realise that, for all practical purposes,
the Military Board appears to welcome
the fund and its attendant test case as
a means of drawing Treasury attention
to inadequacies in present conditions.
KERNEL
Canberra (ACT).
THE FIRST FLAG RAISING
Sir,
Although no student of Australian
history, I do own a book entitled ‘‘Wells
Gazetteer of the Australian Colonies ,
which was published in Sydney in 1848,
after “upwards of eight years in P re '
paration”. In this book is an etching
by J. Carmichael entitled “Sydney Co\e
1788”, showing, among other things, a
small jetty with flagpole and flag fly* n =
very close to it. The flagpole is situated on
the Bennelong Point side of the stream
of water running into Sydney Cove
This would, I think, support Mr M- fy
Ellis’s opinion as to the location of
first flag raising.
ALISON L. ARMSTRONG
Burbank (Qld).


Tutorial Classes Department, Sydney University
Workers' Educational Association of N.S.W.
On Hannah Arendt's A Weekend Conference
EICHMANN - 25th and 26th April
JERUSALEM 201 Castle reagh Street
Sessions: Saturday, 2 and 4.30 p.m.; Sunday, 10.30 a.m.,
1.45 and 4.1 5 p.m.
Speakers: E. St. John, Q.C., I. J. Leibler, W. H. C. Eddy,
Dr. F. Knopfelmacher.
Director: Mr. Owen Harries, B.A.
Inquiries and enrolments (£1 for whole Conference,
5/- per session) at
W.E.A., 52 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY - 29-2222
REVIEWS
ART
East and West
By JOHN HENSHAW
Eastern Sculpture. Newman’s Gallery.
Sydney.
Helen & Guy Grey-Smith. Farmer’s
Blaxland Gallery.
Jon Molvig. Rudy Kornon Gallery.
Stanislaus Rapotec. Hungry Horse
Gallery.
/Comparisons between this and other
shows of the week would be unfair
since these Thai, Chinese and Tibetan
sculptures have greatness which would
distinguish them in any company. All
are religious sculptures, mostly small-
scaled, time-weathered bronze figures
radiant and tranquil. Ten centuries are
encompassed; there is no significant drop
in the level of achievement and all show
subtle differences as if the thousand
armed Aryavalokitesvara could be re-
flected in a thousand moods. Modelling
is sensitive to the point of making the
contour appear to quiver. Stylisation
pre-dates Brancusi's stereometric volumes
by centuries.
The Grey-Smiths contribute fabrics,
pottery and painting to this show. Helen's
handscreened fabrics indicate a keen
design sense, which has personality as
well as original motifs. Primarily Guy is
a painter, and his paintings comprise the
bulk of these exhibits. The pottery has
ingratiating charm of decoration, but it
is limited and takes second place.
Starting point of painterly style is in
de Stael’s manner of 1950-52, large
chunks of thick paint, high pitched color
or greys, worked inches deep with a
spatula. Subject matter drawn from de
Stael's famous soccer players appears,
but with the exception of some Far-
Eastern subjects the landscape is local
WA. In this territory the artist runs the
risk of creating posters, full of heavy
insensitive travelling and in some paint-
ings he does just that.
Molvig has shifted emphasis from
the human faced with elements of myth
to the nude confronted with elements
of still life. Time and location seem
indefinite; white light bleeds relentlessly
from the rola coated board. an
occasional wraith of pale color stains
equally insubstantial form. Some lively
drawings preface the paintings but little
of their observations or intent filter
oblique references to aboriginal barks
through. Echoes of Nolan—thin paint,
combine with tired decorative accessories.
A wasted reclining nude intersects the
frame with all four limbs and suggests
a breath of poetry. The light tonalities
no one would question, but one would
have to be a devoted follower not to
see the extreme poverty of these paint-
ings.
With characteristic zest Rapotec’s
musculatures impatiently strive to anni-
hilate the emotional distance between
painting and spectator. Neutrality can-
not be tolerted, and the experience is
like being caught dogpaddling through
a heat of Olympic swimmers flailing the
foam. Any unsureness on the part of
the painter, as in the NSW gallery
purchase, “Approaching Wilcannia” is
instantly picked up and it means full
stop, the spell is broken. The PVA
swats loom as large as ever and look
best when the painting has been pulled
off' in one go. However, a softening
mist of suave tone now gently tugs
away some of the hard edge, the blacks
melt and cease to gel.
Williams’s
Landscapes
Fred Williams. Georges Gallery. Mel-
bourne.
who rail, in the name of the
-*■ people, against contemporary paint-
ing rarely take account of the potent
influence which the Australian landscape
still exerts on our painters. The paint-
ing of Fred Williams is a fine case in
point. More than once I have seen
people baffled and somewhat put out
by his supposed obscurantism. Yet they
know the same countryside as he does,
and they are moreover faced with a
painter whose aims and methods are
made quite clear.
Perhaps all that is needed is a less
hasty glance and judgment. The pre-
sent exhibition at Georges is a splendid
opportunity for anyone not well
acquainted with Williams’s work over the
past three years to study his remarkably
steady and coherent development. His
standing recently has been very high,
and this exhibition, to my mind, merits
his being ranked among the best painters
in the country.
Landscape painting, of course, is
seldom truly objective. The landscape


Would
you
forget
the
roof?
Of course not!
The roof’s one item
you’d hardly overlook
in the design and con-
struction of a building.
But what of land
titles, Council
approvals, surveys
and Government and
semi-Government
approvals?
Would you remember
them?
Paynter &. Dixon
would!
Building today
demands planning,
Paynter &. Dixon —.
building consultants,
designers and con-
tractors, plan every
detail from site selec-
tion to completion on
a nominated date.
Their planning saves
the client money and
worry—he signs just
one contract and
Paynter & Dixon’s
staff of professional
and technical men
plan and co-ordinate
every intricate detail
of the project.
Paynter &. Dixon
serve commerce and
industry throughout
Australia and New
Zealand—and the
roof goes on every
building!
PAYNTER & DIXON
PT Y. LTD., 16 1
Clarence Street,
Sydney. 29-7951.
Victoria: 161 Fitzroy
Street, St. Kilda.
94-0781. Queensland:
53 Dover Street,
Albion. 63-033.
PAYNTER
& DIXON
DESIGN
CONSTRUCTION'
one chooses, the elements one abstracts
from it, the method of painting itself all
express emotional responses to nature
(and to painting). Nonetheless, if a
classical objectivity can be allowed as
one extreme, it is near this that Williams
must be placed.
Briefly, the 15 paintings and 20 draw-
ings in this exhibition divide into two
styles: from forest landscape come the
works organised on verticals; from open,
rocky country, observed from above,
come the dots. One of the absorbing
interests of the show is to follow through
these two styles the careful process of
abstraction. From a sapling a thin,
unadorned vertical is developed. Bunched
foliage becomes a collection of quickly
brushed dots whose color and texture
are used as free compositional elements.
Fascinating, too, is his apparent growth
of confidence as he moves further into
stylisation: the color range becomes
broader and more expressive, the brush-
work more violent, the design bolder.
The two paintings from this year
“Yellow Landscape” and “Hillside”
may illustrate the point.
Williams is noted as a first-rate tech-
nician, and this, along with the careful
coherence of his development, means
that there are remarkably few indifferent
works. The drawings always serve to
illuminate the more worked over paint-
ings even though a few are not of
especial interest on their own.
BILL HANNAN
FILMS
Dark Quartet
Through a Glass Darkly. Director, Ing-
mar Bergman. Gala Cinema. Syd-
ney.
I*|f the films of Ingmar Bergman that
have been shown here, none has
been more austerely direct in its tech-
nique and narration than this.
I think it is true to say that Bergman
has never gone beyond the resources of
black-and-white photography, the normal
screen and the traditional film-length.
In this film he eschews as well the
technical flourishes and the elaborate
symbolism of some of his earlier work;
he restricts his cast to four, and con-
fines the action to a bare and flinty
Baltic island; even the music is reduced
to a few brief strains of Bach.
The action of the story (the screen-
play, as always, is Bergman’s own)
covers 24 hours in the life of a family
on summer holidays. The opening long
shot shows the four of them splashing
happily, hand in hand, in the shallow
sea. The rest of the film, metaphorically
speaking, takes them from this deceptive
long shot into agonisingly revealing
closeup.


INDONESIA
Bruce Grant
Readable, authoritative.
A book for every
Australian conscious
of our 100 million
near neighbours.
Paperbound 20/-
Cloth 32/6.
MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY PRESS
Each member of the family has his
or her own private corner of a shared
hell. The daughter is a latent schizo-
phrenic; her husband, a doctor, knows
her sickness is incurable; her father, a
cold and self-centred writer, tortures
himself with remorse because he finds
that he is prepared to observe his
daughter’s case with professional detach-
ment; the teenage son is sensitive to the
misery around him and at the same time
beset by his own problems of adoles-
cence.
The action moves relentlessly from the
surface tranquillity of the opening scenes
to a violent climax in which the young
wife relapses into insanity. In the after-
math the father speaks a stiff, halting
homily on love and faith to the young
boy, who has been catastrophically in-
volved in his sister's crisis. Alone, the
boy says in wonderment, “Father talked
to me!”
Along with its greater directness this
film shows a deeper compassion, a less
clinical and detached attitude, than other
Bergman films. (It might not be too
fanciful to see a hint of self-criticism
in the portrait of the coldly observing
father.)
Yet on the whole “In a Glass Darkly”
seems to grip the attention less com-
pellingly than those other films.
This is probably not the fault of the
screenplay, certainly not the fault of
the acting, which is uniformly excellent,
but simply the fault of the language
barrier. Its psychological theme and
its relative lack of external action place
more importance on the dialogue and
stands to lose more when that dialogue
must be imperfectly comprehended
through sub-titles.
RECORDS
Myth and
Melodrama
Stravinsky: “Oedipus Rex”, opera-
oratorio in two acts. George Shirley
(Oedipus), Shirley Verrett (Jocasta),
Donald Gramm (Creon), chorus and
orchestra of the Opera Society of
Washington, conducted by Igor
Stravinsky. CBS BR/SBR 235042
(mono and stereo).
Puccini: “Tosca”, Leontyne Price
(Tosca), Giuseppe Di Stefano (Cava-
radossi), Giuseppe Taddei (Scarpia),
Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra and
State Opera Chorus, conducted by
Herbert von Karajan. RCA LD/
LLDS 7022-1/2 (mono and stereo).
Stravinsky’s low opinion of conductors
is well known. It seems to be the
main motivating force behind his current
series of recordings of his own works;
these are to be the tablets of the law for
all future interpreters.
Fortunately Stravinsky is an excellent
conductor of his own music (not all
composers are) and these recordings will
indeed be enormously valuable “docu-
ments”, whether or not we accept the
view that a composer’s ideas about his
work at any one time are permanently
and immutably definitive.
The composer’s sternly disciplined yet
rhythmically vital conducting goes
admirably with his 1927 opera-oratorio,
“Oedipus Rex”, which marks, perhaps,
the extreme point of his march to neo-
classicism after he had rejected the
“Dionysian” tendencies of his early
ballets.
In one of his recent “dialogues” with
Robert Craft (reproduced as the annota-
tion for this recording) Stravinsky denies
that there are any baroque or classical
influences in “Oedipus Rex”. He says
that the only composer who may have
influenced him during the writing of it
was Verdi. Though one can see what
he means —there is a Verdian directness
in many parts of the score, even some
incongruous touches of Verdian melody
and rhythm the statement seems
deliberately perverse.
For in fact Stravinsky set out quite
consciously to create a distilled, hieratic
form of music drama far removed from
the ebullient humanity of Verdi but
echoing recognisably the stately manner
of Lully, the sublimated drama of Bach
and the nobler moments of Gluck. To
this end he chose an ancient story and
had his text translated into a dead (or
“sacred” as he puts it) language, Latin;
he visualised a highly stylised, tableau-
like method of staging.
In the hands of a lesser master than
Stravinsky this could be sterile and
doctrinaire. That was how Stravinsky’s
first critics found it, and like many dis-
credited critics they had a point, though
they gave it the wrong emphasis. The
important thing about the total result of
“Oedipus Rex” is not the self-conscious
theorising that lies behind it, not even
the slightly odd mixture of styles that
intrudes into it, but the austere grandeur
and driving impetus that Stravinsky
achieves despite all that.
These qualities come through strongly
under Stravinsky’s direction. The com-
poser is well served by his orchestra and
chorus, and George Shirley has a strong,
clearly focused tenor well suited to the
role of Oedipus. Some of the singing of
the lesser soloists, however, is not as
firm and stylish as it might be, and the
speaking of the prose commentary seems
unnecessarily inflated and orotund.
Of '‘Oedipus” Stravinsky says, “I
wished to leave the play, as play,
behind, thinking by this to distil the
dramatic essence.” For Puccini the play,
with all its moment-to-moment action
and even its visual details, was decidedly
the thing; and in Sardou's “La Tosca”
he found the perfect material for his
purpose—not a great play, certainly not
an ancient and universal myth, but an
expertly structured melodrama that
cried out for a musical setting.
VTone of Puccini’s full-length operas
1 ' shows his superb sense of timing, of
theatrical effect, and of the psychology
of music to better advantage than these
three marvellously swift and cogent
acts. (If there is anything in common
between “Tosca” and “Oedipus Rex” it
is the impression of forward movement.
But with Stravinsky this is only in the
music, as music; with Puccini the music
and the action move together.)
This is a rich and vivid recording of
the opera that it would be hard to praise
too highly; I can find nothing in it
worth quarrelling with. Leontyne Price
combines emotional intensity and a
subtle sense of character with technical
capacity of the highest order; Di Stefano
and Taddei provide a lyrical Cavaradossi
and a powerful Scarpia; Karajan never
lets the music sag, and the whole pro-
duction combines dramatic urgency
with an exacting attention to detail.
MARTIN LONG


POETRY
At Dover
Matching the hill at Dover we advanced
Leaving the ferry nosed against the shore.
The narrow streets once decked with ancient causes
Were suffering the summer’s great outpour
Of tourists lured by the earth’s green store
That magnifies our hope and tells us all
There’s something yet will give us meaning.
And on the the crest, finding the castle with
Its gaze still faithful on the raiding sea,
Its ramparts strewn with bottles where had once
Stretched slain men: we in life stood silently
Where they had gleaned above the town some free
Quick laughter or a bell or hooves that slipped
On cobbles, timing a journeying.
Then turning climbed towards the castle’s church,
The cliffs that fall so suddenly away,
And there to skim the Channel to find France,
To take the souvenir you can't mislay
Or pile up in a drawer till judgment day.
The church was small for men who waited death
The cliffs reached deeper than their fall.
And when we looked for France we found tho sea
Had beckoned up a mist that slowly sailed
Its ghostly fingers down the ragged edges
Of the shore; for on that day we failed
To see across; and in the net it trailed,
The mist had caught the ships like fish, their funnels
Surfacing like captured fins.
LOLA JACKSON
On A Daughter
(jor James McAuley)
My father’s scowl, grandfather’s scowl,
Just as I have transmitted it,
On this face now
Evokes a likelier kind of grace
Than was to be expected from
Such a filial deviation.
Do lovelier lineaments disguise
In her the long-nursed guilt
The family scowl
Is signature of, the carried shame
We could not do without nor felt
At home if we were lacking it?
What sort of hope I cannot help
Then makes me want to see that scowl
On the otherwise innocent
Face of a boy whose accusing eyes
Will call me grandfather and deviate
Perhaps into a path I left too late?
T. H. JONES
Cicadas Sestina
1
Oh that exultant shrilling, that wild stridulation!
It sounds as if it were vibrating inside my head!
It has been unvaried in pitch for over a minute!
They are making the most of the last of the daylight
For the sky in the east is rapidly turning to slate.
No wonder their song continues without cessation.
II
They were the last to uncrinkle their wings: there is
no cessation
Because they have so little time. Their stridulation
Has a note of extreme urgency in it. It grates like slate
Against slate and the sound drills into my head
More deep and sharp than ever it pierces in daylight;
And the bit of their song bites deeper every minute.
111
The hours of sunlight are as days in their lives, each
minute
An hour; and being so late to come forth there can
be no cessation
If they are to find one another and mate by daylight.
In the white-hot hour of noon their stridulation
Is not as disquieting as it is now with the sky become
slate
And a cicada of my own shrilling away in my head.
IV
I have had a cicada clinging a twig in my head
For years and years, and never a single minute
Goes by that he ceases to scratch on a slate
Somewhere back of my ears! There is no cessation
Unless I forget to listen, when the stridulation
Will seem to stop, my attention diverted by sundry
concerns of daylight.
V
But the shrill in my head is as nothing compared
with the daylight
Shrilling of scores of cicadas deep in the head
Of a sun-struck gum, its leaves stunned to stillness
by the stridulation
That throbs and throbs in its branches minute by
minute.
Yet not as persistent as now while the sky glooms to
slate.
It is relieved now and then with abrupt,
unaccountable cessation.
VI
All the long hours of the day they struggled without
cessation
Up through the soil to emerge at last into daylight.
Maybe they met with obstruction from sandstone or
slate
And tardily clambered out wingless to split at the
head
And fight to break free from their casing minute by
minute,
Begging the sun to uncrumple their wings, and warm
their stridulation.
VII
Sun, sun let their singing persist, and vibrate in my
head!
Let this ear-piercing shrilling continue minute by
minute!
For 1 well understand the importunate note in their
stridulation.
W. HART-SMITH


RED PAGE
The Glory that Departed
Splendors and miseries of the Mid-Victorians
By GEOFFREY SCOTT
The Age of Equipoise. W. L. Burn.
Allen & Unwin. 68s.
Tn 1862 Benjamin Disraeli wrote: “It
A is a privilege to live in this age of
brilliant and rapid events. What an
error to consider it a utilitarian age!”
Disraeli, of course, can scarcely be con-
sidered a representative figure of his
times, and it is doubtful whether the
majority of Britons shared his romantic
fancies. But were the mid-Victorians
quite the smug philistincs of familiar
tradition? What did they think of them-
selves, their society and the ends towards
which they were moving? In “The Age
of Equipoise” W. L. Burn takes a fresh
look at the contemporary evidence and
he offers some surprising conclusions.
This book is knotty reading in parts.
The author has ploughed his way
omnivorously through parliamentary
papers, committee reports, biographies
of long-forgotten Victorian worthies,
private correspondence and other more
recondite sources. Assimilation and
organisation of such a mass of material
would daunt many historians and it must
be said that it is sometimes hard to see
Professor Burn's wood for his trees.
This is not a book for the casual reader
looking for a simplified conspectus of the
mid-Victorian age. It is, nevertheless, a
valuable and original contribution to
specialist sociological history.
Burn's approach is very selective. He
has concentrated on a handful of years,
1852 to 1867; he has excluded foreign
and domestic politics except in so far as
they illuminate social questions; he has
a good deal to say about art and
literature but, curiously, almost nothing
about architecture in an age when the
Victorians (like the Elizabethans) ex-
pressed themselves so flamboyantly in
their building habits. And it would be
easy to quarrel about his choice of a
title for the book. Equipoise suggests a
state of balance, of equilibrium of forces.
There are very few periods in history to
which the word can safely be applied.
Augustan Rome perhaps, or the torpid
slumbers of the Ming Dynasty, but not
mid-Victorian England. In the 1860 s
old and new still existed side by side but
the crust was cracking in all directions.
Victorians themselves did not think of
their age as one of stability but of
change, and, naturally, change for the
better with material and moral progress
marching hand in hand. An Age, per-
haps, of Paradox, of Optimism, or (to
.the cynical) of Illusion; but hardly an
Age of Equipoise.
One point that emerges clearly from
Burn's thesis is the patchwork, ad hoc
nature of the social reforms of the
period. This was inevitable in the light
of the fundamental laissez-faire economic
philosophy. In theory the task of the
State was simply to maintain law and
order and leave every individual to sink
or swim in the battle of life according to
.his capabilities. If he was a “good” man
(i.e., sober, industrious and God-fearing)
he swam along comfortably enough in
the station to which it had pleased
providence to call him, or elevated him-
self into a superior station by exceptional
intelligence and thrift. If he was drunken
and lazy he sank. He might, of course,
also sink because of sickness, unemploy-
ment or old age, but such had always
been the common lot of humanity,
especially those of the lower orders. In
any case there were numberless private
charities to cushion their fall. “The poor
exist that the charity of the richer may
in them find life,” said the Rev. Lord
Sidney Osborne.
Vet by the 1850 s the Victorians were
A not blind to the accumulated horrors
of laissez-faire industrialism. Reformers
were numerous and ardently vocal. They
pointed to the city slums with their livid,
filth-encrusted inhabitants living in con-
ditions in which no gentleman would
kennel his dogs; to the swarms of hag-
gard prostitutes in London’s Strand and
Haymarket; to the mouldering pest-
houses of the county prisons; to the vile,
dangerous faces in Manchester, a city
that “seemed like a vent that must surely
open into Hell”.
For all their supposed squeamishness
the mid-Victorians greatly relished the
public washing of dirty linen. As each
scandal was exposed—archaic relics in
the legal system, the rottenness of the
gaols, the bumbling inefficiency of the
local police forces, health and education
authorities the government was gal-
vanised into action. But there was never
any overall plan, no thought of a com-
prehensive sweeping-away into the dust-
bin of all the lumber of previous ages.
If a cause found no private champions
it was not the government's job to inter-
fere. It was fatally easy, as more than
one philanthropist pointed out, for
humane intentions to degenerate into
mere “morbid sympathy” for ungrateful
scoundrels and wastrels.
One of the most illuminating sections
of Burn's book is his analysis of the
House of Commons in the 1860 s. It is a
useful corrective to the commonly-held
idea that the Reform Bill of 1832 marked
the final political abdication of the
aristocratic landlords in favor of the new
lords of trade. In fact the 652 members
of the Commons in 1865 included no
less than 326 who belonged to the
families of peers or baronets. Of the
landed interest one contemporary re-
former wrote: “So vast is their traditional
power, so deep and ancient are its roots,
so multiplied and ramified everywhere
are its tendrils and creepers and feelers,
that the danger is never lest they should
have too little, but always lest they
should have too much power . . .”
The great estates were empires in
themselves. The Duke of Buccleuch
had an annual rentroll of £217,000, the
Duke of Sutherland owned 1,300,000
acres, the Duke of Northumberland
spent £320,000 on rebuilding Alnwick
Castle, the Marquis of Bute (through
his ownership of a large slice of the city
of Cardiff) enjoyed an income of
£231,000. Though the political power
of the great landlords was indeed begin-
ning to wane, the process was slow and
the mid-Victorians, for all their trumpet-
ings about the benefits of enlightened
commerce and occasional attacks on
“high-born insolence”, still deeply rever-
enced blue blood and broad acres as the
foundation of their social structure.
Burn also challenges the customary
view that by the mid-19th century
England, the workshop of the world,'
was obsessed by the prime importance
of her factories and dark Satanic mills.’
It was not until the decade between 1851.
and 1861 that the balance of populatioa
between town and country at last shifted'
in favor of the former. English agri-
culture was still vitally important and
the state of the harvest was as significant
as the state of the Manchester Cotton
Exchange. The countryside was still far
from being a haven for suburban
escapists, a “green belt” or a “lung”, as
much of it is today.
Professor Burn has gathered the
tangled threads of many themes to make
this book. If he is not the easiest of
guides, his conclusion about the mid-
Victorians is sensible enough: “Theirs
was not, indeed, a sparkling generation.
But in spite of, or perhaps because of,
its moralistic platitudes, its naive assump-
tions and its comfortable though illogical
compromises, it found life on the whole
enjoyable and beneficent. Under the
surface there were ugly depths of
fanaticism and savagery and on top


there was a debris of sensuality and
tawdriness. Yet the surface was reason-
ably firm and reasonably clear. A man
who had the good sense or good fortune
to pick his ground well could stand erect,
confident and self-respecting.”
Between
Two Wars
My Brother Jack. George Johnston.
Collins. 28s. 6d.
Confusions. Jack Ludwig. Seeker &
Warburg. 265.
Dust in My Throat. John Farrimond.
Harrap. 18s. 9d.
Be Ready with Bells and Drums.
Elizabeth Kata. Penguin Books. ss.
Martin Place. D. H. Crick. Aus-
tralasian Book Society. 225. 6d.
Johnston’s novel begins as
the First World War ends. Though
the story is set in Melbourne, it is in fact
a social document of life in any Aus-
tralian city during the years that yielded
the bitterness of the depression and the
Nazi war. It speaks articulately for the
generation of Australians who grew up
between the wars. It is also a sincere
and moving human story which unfolds
the development of two distinct types of
Australian males.
Jack, dominating a whole gallery of
skilfully created characters, is a regular
“Mr Dinkum Aussie”, a straight and
decisive bloke who from the first shows
a positive attitude to life. He’d fight it
out, fairly, with anyone who looked for
it, fearless, thoughtless of consequences:
and, growing to manhood, he is entirely
sure, with a blatant disregard for the
niceties, shrewd, wholehearted about life.
Stiil fighting, he takes on the depression,
going anywhere to look for work,
despising “the Susso” “if you think
I’m going to stand there holding my
hand out like a flamin’ beggar-—”. He
knows his mind about women, too.
David, his younger brother, and the
book’s narrator, admires Jack, and
acknowledges his stature, but cannot
change from the timid, sensitive, un-
certain young man he is, preferring
books to booze, terrified of his father
and his parents’ rows, shy with girls.
He drifts into writing, revealing an
unusual talent which leads to a career
in journalism: and later drifts into an
unsuitable marriage.
When World War II breaks out it is
not surprising that Jack is there on the
first day to enlist, and can’t understand
why David holds back. Ultimately, it
is Jack the fighter who never gets to
war, while David, the writer, as a war
correspondent sees the thickest of it.
Artistry, insight, and clarity combine
to make this an immensely readable and
thoroughly satisfying novel.
After such a lucid and smoothly
written story, “Confusions” strikes
jaggedly. One would need to be a
graduate of an American university,
preferably an older eastern one, and a
member of the Jewish race with Euro-
pean connections for this book’s esoteric
references to be entirely comprehensible.
Briefly, the narrator is attempting to
analyse his own confusions. On one
hand he is Joey Gaisky, Jew, loving his
parents, living by kosher and the Talmud
in a suburban town near Cambridge,
Mass. On the other, he is Joseph Gillis,
commuting to Harvard and under-
graduate studies.
But the short train ride spans a world
of difference. His Anglo-Saxon looks,
hacking jackets, and penchant for
Gentile dames tangle the issue. A couple
of alter egos —the Devil, in Ivy League
clothes, and his Concience, personified
as a bearded Rabbi —keep popping up in
the oddest places faculty meetings,
drugstores, and bars. Joe attempts to
resolve his schizophrenic existence by
escaping—with his gorgeous wife Nancy
(Radcliffe and Unitarian) —to a post at
a raw, new Californian university. New
problems, such as snobbery and corrup-
tion, rear here, leaving him and the book
as crazily mixed up as ever.
Give high marks for smart chat, wit,
and erudition—take away for lack of
clarity and, let's face it, confusion —and
you have a novel which gets only average
rating for entertainment.
"CVom such an intellectual exercise it is
A a relief to turn to the honest simplicity
of “Dust in My Throat” about coal-
miners. It tells how pitmen live, love,
talk, and feel. It is as straightforward
and unequivocal as the pit mates them-
selves. Bob Howarth is quite a lad with
the girls. Lie’s got an appeal that even
coal dust cannot dim. This talent with
women has him blamed for Bill Harri-
son's death in the mine, and victimised
by the town’s gossips; and allows him
to extend his conquests to the “upper
crust”. Descriptions of the mines and
men who work them, of disasters con-
stantly imminent, are moving and real.
Howarth the hero is a warm, believable
character.
John Farrimond is himself a miner
and this is his first novel.
Unlike the other three novels, Eliza-
beth Kata’s “Be Ready with Bells and
Drums” stands apart from her own per-
sonal environment. It is all the more
remarkable for this. Hers is a com-
pelling book with a bitter message of
racial intolerance which has no less
impact on second reading in Penguin
edition than it had when first published
three years ago.
A pitiful teenage girl from a sleazy,
ignorant background in an American
city has been blinded as a child by acid
thrown by her prostitute mother and
meant for the girl’s father. Though
uneducated, the girl has learnt one lesson
well —to hate “niggers”. She seems to
be, however, a sensitive and intelligent
girl—she is the story’s narrator. Her
one real pleasure is in being taken to
the park to sit in the fresh air, and
thread beads by which she earns some
money. When, one day, she spills them,
a man comes to her aid. He stays and
talks to her—and comes again. They
become friends. He is gentle and wise,
has plans to educate her. They fall in
love. For the first time she feels real
joy and hope, but cannot understand
his reticence to commit himself
perhaps she is not good enough. By
accident she learns too soon the truth —-
terrible and final to her.
Sickeningly moved, one reads on to
the bitter end. Mrs Kata’s simple
dialogue is very powerful.
“Martin Place” is a novel set in
Sydney in the late ’twenties and early
days of the depression. As a social
study it is rather dated. As a study in
human aspirations its quality is more
timeless.
Danny O’Rourke, bright, intelligent
lad from the “wrong side of the tracks”,
gets a junior clerk’s job in a solid
insurance company. His aim is to be
manager, but being an idealist with
poetic leanings, finds disillusionment
with more maturity and a growing
awareness of ruthlessness in high places,
especially as the depression closes in.
He should be an admirable hero: instead
he comes through as priggish and malad-
justed. His relationship with Paula, an
over-played girl from Vaucluse, doesn't
help him; nor do the examples of old
Rigby, the kindly too mild clerk, the
failure, who finds he cannot delude him-
self; or Rockwell, the general manager,
the success.
By far the most believable character
is Art Sloan, a breezy square peg in the
round hole of clerking if ever there was
one. He finds his niche later as a
bookmaker.
Though the writing tends to be over-
elaborate and self-consciously studied,
the story gives a real enough picture of
life in Sydney of 30 years ago.
JOYCE BURNARD
Snapshots
With Luck Lasting. Bernard Spencer.
Hodder and Stoughton. 18s. 9d.
Tn these poems there is no great torment
-*■ or ecstasy; there is just the flicker of
light on the baton of the polished con-
ductor.
Bernard Spencer in the ’thirties


LOOK DOWN
THIS LIST
For a spare-time interest or a spare-time in-
come, select a Stott Home-Study Course. Write
today for full information.
Story Writing
F’lance Journalism
Writing for Radio
Writing for TV
Verse Writing
Shorthand Pitman's
& Speedwriting
Typewriting
Handwriting
Commercial Art
Cartooning
Drawing & Sketching
Water Colour
Fashion Drawing
Showcard & Ticket
Writing
English Grammar &
Composition
mm
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 383 George
Street, Sydney. 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
45 Gilles Street, Adelaide. 22 Howard Street,
Perth.
POST THIS COUPON
TO STOTT'S: Please send me, free and with-
out obligation, full details of your Correspon-
dence Course/s irt:
NAME ....
ADDRESS
Age .. . (B. 964)
Stott’s, Colleges undertake that no represen-
tative will call following your inquiry.
studied at Oxford and was one of the
less conspicuous products of the Auden-
MacNeice school. He died last year and
“With Luck Lasting” is the second
significant volume of verse he published.
His output is therefore small.
The influence of Auden lurks in lines
like these about yachts:
Admirable again
how one of them, perhaps tomorrow,
will have gone with no hooting or
fuss,
simply absent from its place among
the others . . .
However, Mr Spencer misses out on
the magnetic, haunting note that runs
through a lot of Auden, and his observa-
tions on life and manners never startle.
These poems have overtones of
hedonism, which in a way remind one
of MacNeice. But while MacNeice is
moved to bitter regret by the briefness
of pleasure, in these poems I feel the
passing of time is an observed fact
rather than a poetic reality.
Did Bernard Spencer have any
qualities he could call bis own? Occasion-
ally he displays a deftness and, tightness
of language which is admirable, as in
these lines “From My Window”:
Alone on a building site a watchdog
stalks by the fire,
wooed and repulsed by the jump-
away flames, or raises its head
at a barking that chips a hole in
distance.
The phrase “jump - away flames”
irritates me, but the last line is especially
good. He describes in “The Leopards”
how some wretched circus leopards
“lolloped on to their chairs” and how
“a tail hung low and twitching, talking
its own thoughts”.
Sometimes the subject matter carries
the poem. For instance, in “By a Break-
water” he describes how at Dover on a
cold, rainy day by the sea he saw two
middle-aged lovers, and while the woman
was leaning against the man, the man
was injecting a hypodermic syringe into
her bare arm.
Too often Spencer is prompted to
poetry by the exoticism of the subject.
A glance at a few of his titles will give
you some idea: “Mediterranean Suburbs”,
“On A Carved Axle Piece From A
Sicilian Cart”, “In A Foreign Hospital”,
“Morning In Madrid”. Many of his
poems are just skilful snapshots.
He is very good at sorting out delicate
and fine sense impressions. In “Regent’s
Park Terrace” he describes the noises
around his house, the drays with “their
hollow sound like stones in rolling
barrels” and the sound of various trains:
. . . among them the violent,
screaming like frightened animals,
clashing metal;
different the pompous, the heavy
breathers, the aldermen,
or those again which speed with the
declining
sadness of crying along the distant
routes
knitting together weathers and dialects.
Between these noises the little teeth
of a London silence.
Finally the lions grumbling over the
park,
angry in the night hours . . .
The poem then goes on to a rather flat
conclusion. Despite their skill most of
his poems finish flatly because basically
they have little to say. He rarely achieves
a lyrical impulse. Most of the poets
produced by the ’thirties could only be
lyrical when they were being violent,
whereas someone like Graves, with roots
in Georgian poetry, can be lyrical with-
out being violent. Spencer lacks violence
and ultimately fails because of his cos-
mopolitan sophistication.
GEOFFREY LEHMANN
Lost Illusions
A Man and Two Women. Doris
Lessing. Mac Gibbon and Kee. 30s.
Winter’s Tales 9. A. D. Mac Lean
(ed.). Macmillan. 41s. 6d.
T ove, for Doris Lessing, makes the
world revolve hopelessly, by habit.
Miss Lessing has a singularly bleak view
of life. She finds people distasteful, and
their intercourse a rather grotesque (and
rather unenthusiastic) search for a
meaning to life they lost long since.
Nothing, she seems to feel, ever works
out satisfactorily, and it is just not worth
the trouble of trying. Human relation-
ships have become reduced to parodies
of themselves and love is no more than
the sum of its deviations (in this
book, incest, voyeurism, and nympho-
mania). All the characters in her glum
little tragedies end up, and sometimes
start off, humiliated or debased, dis-
affected or (mercifully) dead. “A Man
and Two Women” is a hymn, or more
correctly a dirge, to disillusionment.
The only people who are content are
the working class who have been un-
happy for so long it has become a satis-
factorily familiar state. It is only briefly,
however, that she concerns herself with
the working class. Apart from a couple
of very pedestrian autobiographical pieces
set in Africa, all the stories are set
among the London art world, its
parasites and its pretenders. Their lives
are a grimly repetitive journey from
drink to drink, bed to bed, from one
feeble play at happiness or fulfilment to
the next.
And they are aware of it. Like her
characters, Miss Lessing, as a stylist, is
self-honest; indeed, her unpretentiousness
is almost a fetish (it would be tempting
to say, almost a pretension). In what is
probably the best story in the book,
“How I Finally Lost My Heart”, she
provides a running commentary on her
expression, in parentheses. She chooses
her words carefully and strips her prose
of any extravagance, any unnecessary
embellishment. This does not mean, how-
ever, that she has sacrificed vividness to
economy.
Miss Lessing is represented in Mac-
millan's annual collection of English
short stories, “Winter’s Tales 9”, by a
brilliant portrait of an old prostitute,
“Mrs Fortesque”. Through the confused
eyes of the teenage boy who seduces and
then reviles her, the dignity of the
totally degenerated emerges with con-
summate subtlety. Her vision is just as
sombre, but this little funeral bell of a
story is slightly more human. The story
is in fact the best of an uneven collection.
The four new' writers are disappointing.
Diana Athill’s “This is My Daughter-in-
Law” is a simpering treatment of color
discrimination; Terence Kelly’s “Carnival
in Trinidad” is a watery tale of rational-
irrational murder; Robert Rubens has
w'ritten an unfunny and imitative piece
with some bathos thrown in, “Two
Weeks Beyond Shoreditch”, and Mar-
garet Laurence's “The Sound of the
Singing” is dreary sentimentality.
MICHAEL THOMAS


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Closer Look at Overseas Funds
Quccessive falls in Australia’s overseas reserves have
prompted a closer appraisal of Australia’s trading posi-
tion. The reserves have slipped from a record £727m. on
February 26 to £7oom. on April 1. Everyone cheers when
the reserves rise (irrespective of whether they are caused
by windfall sales of wheat to Red China or Government
borrowings overseas). But there are deep mutterings if the
reserves slip back.
One explanation for the recent fall in reserves was a “once-
and-for-all” Government payment for defence, This sort of
thing should be kept in perspective all the year round.
Australia’s overseas reserves are never what they seem to be.
Despite the tremendously favorable trade figures achieved so
far in 1963-64 (indicated by an on-the-surface trade surplus
of £148.6m. for the eight months to February, 1964), a
mental reservation must be made for the £2som. of invisibles
(or more) which offset our apparent trade balance.
Also, Australia’s reserves include such things as overseas
investment. And the unremitted profits of overseas companies
operating in Australia are taken into account when totting
up Australia’s balance sheet at the end of the year.
In effect, therefore, we kid ourselves when we turn hand-
springs over the paper profits reported on overseas trading.
Similarly, when one of the inevitable capital payments is
made (either on Government account or otherwise) we tend
to get dismayed when reserves suddenly take a dive.
Maintaining a long-term perspective, however, it is as well to
acknowledge that Australia indeed has enjoyed a fortunate
year, with' windfall wheat sales to China, record meat sales
to the US and an otherwise generally buoyant export market.
In conjunction with this, Australia has had a relatively
modest appetite for imports, influenced in no small degree
by the hangover from the credit squeeze and the fears by
traders of getting caught again with large stocks which are
difficult to sell. At the same time, that “modest”’ appetite
for imports would appear prodigious if our export figures
had failed to rise strongly above last year's level.
It will not always be thus. The emerging activity of in-
dustry generates a renewed demand for imports, either of
raw materials, capital goods or
plain (dirty word at the Treas-
ury) luxuries. The glittering pile
of gold and reserves over which
we gloat then may be reduced
substantially.
At the moment there is no
immediate threat. But it is as
well to keep these things in
perspective. Australia has not
built up a happy, unfettered
bank balance of £7OO million.
Those credits include Govern-
ment borrowings and a host
of items which can disappear
quickly, either by a remittance
of profits earned in Australia,
hot money, a lack of confi-
dence by otherwise enthusiastic overseas investors, or just
by the normal appetite of importers replenishing their stocks.
So, if we cheer when we see the reserves rise, don’t think
we did it all ourselves. It includes not only Government
borrowings, unremitted profits, etc., but also the capital invest-
ment (or loans) of overseas people.
For this reason, the normal day-to-day fluctuations in
overseas reserves are not calamities or an indication of a
long-term trend. But it would be doing the public, and our
potential exporters, a good turn if the statistician published
trade figures less an estimate for invisibles so we don't fall
into the complacent attitude of “I’m all right, Jack.”
Unilever’s Result Is
Hardly Abstract Art
TTnilever Australia Pty Ltd, subsidiary of the Anglo-
Dutch group, Unilever Ltd, obviously is alive to the
intense local competition in the soap, detergent, food, toilet
and household products business and is sacrificing dividends
to the parent for the purpose of ploughing money back.
It expects to pay a dividend of only £250,000 for the year
to December compared with £750,000 in the previous year.
Underscoring this point, the company spent £2.3m. on
capital assets in each of the past two years, apart from the
money borrowed from the parent in 1963 to acquire the
big Victorian canned and preserved foods producer, Rosella
Preserving. Last year Unilever spent £l.4m. on plant and
equipment, £656,000 on buildings and £193,000 on land.
And it wasn’t spent on promoting soap or detergents. Most
of the money went into building a new printery at North
Rocks, near Sydney, a warehouse extension at Port Mel-
bourne, and additions to manufacturing plants.
The company already controls Lintas (an ad. agency),
Beacon Research (to research its products) and evidently is
making determined efforts to expand in the packaging and
printing field to keep up with today’s intense promotion
campaigns. The most modern
gravure and lithographic plant
for printing packaging materials
is being installed and, because
of links with overseas packag-
ing groups, licences are held for
international packaging systems.
These facilities and systems will
be available to Australian busi-
ness houses, Unilever claims.
Chemicals, animal foods and
refrigeration units are all in the
Unilever range and since the
acquisition of Rosella, the num-
ber of employees has risen to
6000.
It has become a big force
in the food processing industry,


although the chairman, Mr Garth Barraclough, says the
group has not analysed what percentage it holds of this
overall market. It is more concerned with concentrating
on the individual impact of certain lines, such as soups,
baked beans, sweetcorn, etc.
Its competitors, however, must take a close look at Uni-
lever’s activities and no doubt there are many nervous
directorates w'ho wonder if their company is next on the
takeover list.
There is undoubted room for expansion, encouraged by the
rising population of Australia. Ice-cream consumption, for
example, is only half the per capita consumption of America,
indicating a remarkable potential.
The company is busily absorbed with preparing for the
expansion w'hich undoubtedly lies ahead and, although its
profit and dividend are down for 1963, with a fall in earning
rate from 9.8 to 9.3 p.c. on £lsm. capital, it is only a re-
flection of the beaver-like activity behind the scenes as Uni-
lever prepares for vigorous expansion.
Certainly it obtained funds from the UK parent to finance
expansion in 1963, but it retained a large slice of profits to
contribute towards future projects. For example, after
deducting the proposed dividend to its parent, Unilever
Australia retained £1,992,000 in surplus profits in 1963 com-
pared with £838,000 in 1962.
Costs were higher in 1963, including the rise in animal
fats (influenced in no small measure by the buoyant beef
sales to the US), and the company expects these costs to be
even higher in 1964. This does not necessarily predicate a
declining trend in profits for the group, because benefits
of the extra money poured into Rosella have yet to be felt.
Other new projects, including the printery, will provide
extra income, so evidently no one at Unilever is weeping
tears of blood because the latest profit fell from £1472m.
to £l4Ol m. The company was able to write off a lot of
expense items in 1963 and the tax provision of £1063m.
(£losBm. in 1962) indicates that the group is not going broke.
The result is very much like the effect of Hinder’s painting
of the Sydney Harbor Bridge in the reception foyer of
Unilever’s 11th floor at Circular Quay. Mr Hinder reputedly
insisted 'that the background wall (on which his painting
was hung) should be painted three times before he acquired
the right background effect. Unilever’s report of facts and
figures for 1963 (as a substitute for a balance sheet) needs
to be studied three times before the right interpretation seeps
through. The conclusion is one of thoroughgoing and
vigorous expansion rather than a reduction of profit-earning
ability.
Commonsense on Overseas
Trade Expounded Again
Qir John Crawford delivered another typically judicious
survey of Australia’s trade problems to the Australian-
American Association last week. He was not loth to indicate
the stimulatory advantages of capital inflow, emphasising that
these must be kept very much in mind w'hen taking any steps
to minimise the dangers of a continued large inflow.
The now quiescent debate received a prod: “We had better
make up our minds which is the best for national policy.”
1 Coincident with Mr Christian Herter’s paen of praise for
i the US-Australian Meat Agreement, Sir John carefully chose
I the word “sensible” finding it fortunate, “by accident, that
| this year’s supplies of Australian frozen beef and mutton are
j running well below the agreed quota, which itself is below
last year’s exports.”
UK, European and Japanese meat demands may indeed
move further along their immediate upward trend. Never-
theless, the Texans won’t stop gunning for the agreement, so
“constant discussions in Canberra, Washington and Geneva”
will still be necessary.
Geneva Conference Battles
Policy Issues
Tn between coping with rather irrelevant ideological gestures
aimed at Portugal and South Africa, the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development is enduring a long
series of “policy” speeches from the various participant
countries.
Mr McEwen’s concession on tea and cocoa beans, insig-
nificant except in principle, at least possessed the merit of
sounding concrete. A doubtless well-intended collection of
generalities, though, appear destined to divert the conference
for some time yet.
The British Minister for Industry and Trade, Mr Edward
Heath, did suggest that the sectional committees “turn their
attention quickly to the consideration of specific points.”
Getting down to brass tacks seems susceptible of sundry
meanings to a politician, however. Mr Heath certainly left
plenty of ground for disputatious delay in asserting “the
conference will most speedily achieve its purpose if it guides
and stimulates the work of existing bodies.”
By such a statement he hoped to forestall any runaway
from the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, to whose
adherence the UK was further pledged. Some conference
sentiment (including its inspirer and secretary-general, Dr
Paul Prebisch) leans towards a new international trade or-
ganisation, if only in an attempt to enlist the Communist
States.
Mr Heath made the right noises on primary commodities,
unrestricted access, price stabilisation and financial support.
Perhaps his proposal for a freeze on all new trade barriers
to the poorer nations was a kind of appeal to more inter-
national gatherings, in preparation and soon coming up.
Australia, on Mr McEwen’s earlier admission a “middle”
country, must be especially interested in ideas of granting
preferences on semi-processed and processed goods by
developed economies. Compensatory advantages in other
markets would then be claimed for Commonwealth countries
enjoying UK tariff preferences.
Chevron Sydney Sold
At Last—for £2lm.
Oale of the Chevron Sydney at long last to a Sydney syn-
dicate of businessmen for £2+m. (after long and pro-
tracted promotion and a trip by the Receiver overseas)
appears to be a reasonable deal for the purchasers.
Some hard-headed business people who looked at the ven-
ture said it wasn’t worth more than £2m. But the Australian
syndicate has managed to arrange payments over five years,
with annual instalments of £333,333, at 6 p.c. reducible
Considering that the hotel was reputed to be earning
around £lBO,OOO a few years ago, the repayments should
not be too onerous. And the addition of a new wing, shops
and arcades, plus a car park, should help things along.
There is talk of obtaining public money to help finance
the operation at a later stage. It would need to be a
convincing argument.
Meanwhile, the first mortgage debenture-holders are not
getting out of it too badly if, as reported, they are likely to
receive £B4 on each £lOO •debenture.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Mr Hawke’s Red Herring
Big threat to price stability
VI/'ith the unions’ acceptance of the
Metal Trades Employers’ funda-
mental concept of annual adjustments
to the basic wage, in line with pro-
ductivity and capacity to pay movements,
the main difference between the parties
in the current basic wage case is whether
price movements should be written into
the formula.
If the Arbitration Commission accepts
the unions’ view that regular cost-of-
living adjustments should be imposed on
the basic wage as a separate layer to
productivity and capacity to pay, it
would seem that the raison d’etre of the
employers’ suggestion will have dis-
appeared, leaving the wage at the mercy
of inflationary influences in the economy
and at the same time guaranteeing steady
floor increases.
Such a situation could hardly be
bettered from the unions’ viewpoint,
especially as it would still be open to
them to bargain for still higher over-
award wages in the market, a process
which is now part and parcel of the in-
dustrial scene and, in present conditions
of increasing shortages of labor, as big
a threat to price stability as any.
Apart from his acceptance of the
employers’ suggestion of automatic
annual wage increases (albeit with his key
reservations on prices), Mr Hawke’s final
address in the basic wage case did not
depart much from the general lines of
his opening submissions which high-
lighted the unions’ insistence on price
adjustments.
However, he has naturally spent a
good many hours following employers’
and Government counsel down numerous
alleys which sometimes seemed to
wander a long way from the central
question of whether the basic wage
should be increased and, if so, by how
much. The Commission is surprisingly
tolerant of such excursions, as if time
was no object in basic wage cases.
"C'or instance, when one of his own
basic propositions was that on top of
adjustments for productivity increases
there should be adjustments for price
increases, it was difficult to see what
useful purpose was served by Mr Hawke’s
protracted refutation of the employers’
“theory” that if wages were increased at
the same rate as productivity for the
same year, price stability would be
ensured.
The impression given by Mr Hawke’s
argument on price adjustments is that
the unions believe that the achievement
of price stability, as well as economic
growth and full employment, is not only
difficult but also pretty well impossible
(he did not mention exchange stability),
and that as all three objectives have beset
the economy at the same time, the one
most likely to fall by the wayside is
price stability.
His case for supporting price increases
would, perhaps, have been better served
by ignoring Mr Robinson’s theory on
productivity and prices, but he could
have been led into it by scenting the
attraction of annual increases based on
productivity and capacity to pay. In
opening the basic wage case he had
argued simply that the unions’ applica-
tion was based precisely on what he con-
sidered to be the Commission’s own
unequivocally stated and utilised criteria
of wage fixing that is, “a just and
reasonable wage” can only be fixed if it
moves in accordance with changes in
prices and productivity. The emphasis
there seemed to be on “just”, suggesting
more of an equity approach.
Tn fact, his early argument was clear
cut on prices, being based on his con-
tention that, since the abandonment of
quarterly cost-of-living adjustments in
1953, the basic wage had failed to reflect
rises in consumer prices, whereas both
in 1959 and 1963 the Commission had
seen fit to adjust margins to changes in
prices since the 1954 margins case. In
other words, he said that his argument
that the Commission should make up lost
ground in price adjustments in the basic
wage was reinforced by what the Com-
mission had done about margins.
Also in his first submissions, Mr
Hawke supported this contention on
prices by showing that the economy was
now in a stronger situation than at any
time since 1953 (his starting point for
the adjustments for prices the unions are
now seeking), and that it was also in a
stronger position than in 1959 when a
15s. increase in the basic wage was
awarded by the Commission.
He wound up his first submissions by
asking the Commission “to make sense
completely and finally of its own
principles of wage fixation by restoring
to the basic wage its 1953 value, give to
it the improvements for productivity
since then (he was surely meaning since
1961 when the basic wage was increased
by 10s.), and you can rest content that
in doing so you will be doing justice to
the workers of this country”.
It is a moot point whether the Com-
mission will be impressed with this
simple line of reasoning which has been
somewhat elaborated in Mr Hawke’s
final submissions. Yet it still begs the
main question whether in the basic wage
judgments of 1959 and 1961 the Com-
mission did in fact take price movements
as well as all other influences into account
in the amounts they added to the basic
wage in those years. The employers
maintain that the Commission did.
course, even though Mr Hawke in
his final submissions embraced (and
for good reasons) the principle of annual
automatic adjustments, he had to keep
hammering away at price adjustments by
making several conditions, mainly
relating to the backlog of price adjust-
ments and the future role of price move-
ments in the suggested annual adjust-
ments.
His first condition was, of course, that
there should be a substantial increase in
the basic wage, this time to cater for
price and productivity rises which, it is
claimed, have not been adequately re-
flected in the basic wage since price
adjustments were suspended in 1953.
The unions’ view of the leeway to
be made up on the combined prices and
productivity fronts is 525. a week,
whereas the employers maintain that on
the productivity-cum capacity-cum prices
principle (which they emphatically re-
ject) the maximum to be made up would
be only 10s. 6d. a week, of which
Is. lOd. is for price increases since
1961.
(Earlier the employers had argued that
the margins and annual leave decisions
in 1963 had already absorbed the pro-
ductivity amount of Bs. Bd. included in
their 10s. 6d. estimate. So that, in their
view, if the principles ennunciated in the
Commission’s 1961 judgment were to be
taken literally, the only issue before the
Commission in the present dispute would
be an increase of Is. lOd. in the basic
wage to cater for price increases.)
Equally logically, Mr Hawke’s second
condition was that the new formula
suggested by the employers should in-
clude consideration of price increases
and be part of “a general scheme of
economic control designed for price
stability.” However, the two conditions
would hold together. In other words,
the first thing to do was to make up the
price and productivity ground the unions
consider to have been lost by the basic
wage since 1953 when cost-of-living
adjustments were abandoned.
As for the future “cover” for prices
in the event of that being done, Mr
Hawke appeared to think that increases
of i p.c. a quarter would satisfy his
clients.
But would it be satisfactory for the
economy?


“CROESUS”
Challenge to Employers
“Courage to ignore examination results”
The call to the business world to re-
orient its attitude to the educational
qualifications of job-seekers, put out by
Mr T. R. Garnett, headmaster of Gee-
long Grammar School, in his challenging
address on “Bars to Progress in Educa-
tion” to the Rotary Club in Melbourne
last week, deserves to be taken very
seriously, as, indeed, do a number of
his other ideas to get education on the
right course in this country. The pity
is that his agenda for reform comes at a
time when the giant education snowball
looks to be pretty well out of control
on an ill-defined course. But at any
rate in one respect the right response of
big employers of labor could aid the
required rationalisation of education
here and now.
It should be said at once that Mr
Garnett is not advocating a cutback in
expenditure on education. On the con-
trary, he said that there was no expen-
diture which would pay a better divi-
dend, whether the dividend be calcula-
ted in terms of human happiness or
hard cash, or even in chances of sur-
vival.
He argued firmly as, indeed, we did
in The Bulletin last year, that how
much is spent is a matter of determining
priorities if you spend more on edu-
cation, you’ve got less to spend on
other things.
As was argued at the recent summer
school of the Australian Institute of
Political Science, to increase the share
that education takes of the gross
national product means that something
else, defence say, or consumption, has
necessarily to get less, though not, of
course, in absolute money terms.
In saying that if the extra money
needed for education does not come at
' expense of something else it can
° n Y come from increased taxation
an d that isn't popular” Mr Garnett
" as ’ n effect arguing that it should
e°me through cuts in personal consump-
jj°n an d the milking of company pro-
J'hrowing in the thought that taxa-
ti°n in Australia was lighter than in
th ° S , cou ntries and that we were near
e ottom of the list of western coun-
de\ S m s^are °f GNP which w ; e
0 e to education, he clearly favored
thoiioh'H*- taxat ’ on f° r the purpose,
he th ?. ar to P ro S ress In education
it •|. OU ®h l “is a very heavy one which
1 take a lot of people to shift.”
Mr Garnett’s more immediate inter-
est was, it seemed, to get a better rationa-
lisation of resources used in education.
This he saw as partly a technical prob-
lem for the teaching profession itself
and partly a matter of enlightening
public opinion, including that of busi-
ness, which was his main concern here.
Though he didn't say so precisely, a
central point in his programme would
be to increase the effort being put into
getting proper education at the second-
ary level, even if at the expense of some
of the expansion in tertiary education,
though not at the expense of “quality”
in tertiary education, which he thinks
should be greatly improved through
greater selectivity.
“It is perfectly reasonable,” he stated,
“that a university and the faculties in it
should set their standards at the level
which will allow them to operate most
efficiently. If there are too many
students for the available staff of high
quality to cope with, the university can-
not possibly perform its function
efficiently and there is waste of talent
among both teachers and those taught.”
Indeed, one of his bars to progress in
education is the prevailing doctrine that
anyone who has matriculated has a
right to go to the university. In expo-
sing the invalidity of that doctrine he
made a forthright onslaught on the exa-
mination-prone mentality of the com-
munity, including that of employers.
“As for examinations,” he said,
“something of the mentality of League
football seems to come into the picture
—lntermediate the semi-final, Leaving
the preliminary final; and Matriculation
the grand final glorious, hard-hitting
contests between the examiner and exa-
minee. What you need is to be trained
for the day, and for the length of the
match. A short, sharp burst of revision
just before the match, and, if you for-
get it all a week later, never mind, the
match is over by then.
“In their last years at school, children
are not educated but taught to pass
examinations. I suppose a few of them
may pick up some education on the
way. There simply is not time to teach
children how to think, how to appreci-
ate, how to learn for themselves. There
is no place for the inspired chaser of
red herrings who can set a child s
imagination on fire.
“In my more cynical moments,” Dr
Garnett said, “I think there are only
two groups of secondary school children
who have a chance of education in the
true sense. They are those who come
back to school for a year after matricu-
lating and who are prudent enough not
to enter for an examination at the end
of that year, and those who are con-
sidered so incapable of passing exami-
nations that they are given a ‘general’
course.
“Is it surprising that so many first-
year university students fail when they
have never had gn opportunity to learn
how to organise their own work? And
what an appalling waste of money and
resources these failures involve, in-
cluding that commodity which is in ter-
ribly short supply all over the world
the time of really competent univer-
sity teachers!
“How is this bar to be removed? I
believe that there is a real need for a
Commonwealth commission on exami-
nations. But I also believe that the
business community can do a good deal,
particularly those who are large or
comparatively large employers of labor.
Let them, stating their requirements, get
away from those almost meaningless
phrases ‘leaving standard’ or ‘matricu-
lation standard’, and say what their re-
quirements really are.
“T\° employers realise that there are
many boys who fail to pass Leaving
or Matriculation because they have taken
the more demanding subjects, who are
much better value than many of those
who pass in what are known in the
trade as the ‘soft’ subjects? And why
should examinations which are purpor-
tedly concerned with entry to and are
certainly controlled by a university be
relevant to the requirements of industry
or business?
“There is no doubt that, in reputable
hands, the technique of intelligence test-
ing is sufficiently far advanced to be
reliable in indicating general ability in
the vast majority of cases. If any firm
had the courage to say that it would
ignore examination results but use
honest school reports, together with
such tests, in conjunction with the sort
of interviewing which aims to discover
a candidate's power to concentrate, to
think straight, to express himself on
paper and by speech; to discover what
he had read and how much he was
aware of what was going on in the
world, what were his interests and at
what he was competent; to discover, in
fact, how well he had been educated
if any firm had such courage it would
do itself a lot of good.
“If its example w'ere followed, as it
almost certainly would be, the effect
on education would, I am convinced, be
colossal. I used to think we were
examination-ridden in England, but that
is nothing to the state of things in
Victoria.”


'
m
I
mm.
Customiife is increasing
this man’s life assurance policy
That’s what we mean by “Guaranteed Insurability”!
Four years ago, at age 36, this
man took out a Customlife policy,
with guaranteed insurability.
Today, although stricken with a
heart attack, he is exercising his
option to increase his cover by
£5,000 —the amount of his
original insurance.
It is granted without question.
Without penalty rate.
This option is possible through
our “Guaranteed Insurability”
plan. Briefly, it guarantees you
the right to increase your life
assurance cover periodically with-
out the need for further medical
examination—regardless of the
state of your health at any of the
option dates.
Customlife realises that one cannot
depend on constant good health, and,
realising this, provides for your protection
in the event of any illness at any time.
Let’s look at specifics:
From birth to age 40, it is possible for
you to increase the cover on your life
five times. Option dates exist at ages 24,
28, 32, 36 and 40 to increase cover by
an amount not exceeding the original sum
assured . . . which can be up to £5,000.
Thus, taking advantage of all options,
you have a maximum amount purchas-
able of £30,000, with only the one
medical examination when the initial
policy is taken out.
m
Even if you should delay to, say, age 35,
you still have two further option dates.
Perhaps you are thirty now; you have a
young family and a responsibility for
their future and your own. You can
take out an initial policy for any amount
up to £5,000, and increase it as you will
at the option dates, with no fear of
refusal on medical grounds.
The coverage, of course, applies to
women, too. The same complete protec-
tion applies to you as a career woman,
or a young wife sharing family responsi-
bilities.
This is worry-free security, enabling you
to plan for the future with a new
confidence.
You can have more specific details of
this Life Assurance plan by contacting
your nearest Customlife office (listed
below). If you have delayed buying life
assurance, this may be the wisest time for
you to move. Customlife will tailor a
policy to your requirements immediately.
CUSTOMLIFE ASSURANCE LIMITED
Executive Office: 100 New South Head
Road, Edged iff, N.S.W.
Branch Offices —New South Wales, A.C.T., Victoria,
South Australia, Queensland, Western Australia,
Tasmania, Northern Territory, United Kingdom.
m
SURANCE LIMIT
CL.II.FP


Sweet Prospects for Confectioners
Consumption , production and sales are rising
Australian confectionery manu-
facturers, despite increased costs,
are enjoying a strong demand and
report higher sales and produc-
tion. Competition in the industry
is extremely keen, thus helping
to control costs to the consumer.
Mechanisation does, too, but
packaging, a prime consideration
at the point-of-sale, could prove a
minor worry in the future.
Executives whom The
Bulletin interviewed last week
said there was no reason why the
industry should riot continue to be
prosperous.
IThe ever increasing Australian sweet
* tooth, coupled with the high level of
prosperity allowing the purchase of a
larger number of luxuries, is giving con-
fectionery manufacturers their best time
for years. With Easter and the year’s
high point in sales just passed, they are
looking forward to bigger and better
results in the future.
Latest figures available from the
Commonwealth Statistician show con-
fectionery production (with both choco-
late and other bases) has risen from 174
million pounds in 1960-61 to 175.2 mil-
lion pounds in 1961-62, to 182.6 mil-
lion pounds in the latest financial year.
Production in the December, 1963
quarter reached 45.29 million pounds
compared with 44.60 million pounds for
the previous corresponding period.
Recent rises in the price of raw
materials such as cocoa beans have been
passed on to the consumer, “but only
marginally” say most manufacturers.
Competition within Australia is tough,
but companies in the business seem
satisfied wth profit margins. Competi-
tion from imports is insignificant be-
cause of high protective tariffs, high
freight costs (due to the refrigeration
necessary for chocolate-based con-
fectionery) and the high cost of raw
materials overseas.
■ S eas onal movements in the industry
such as Christmas and Easter closely
follow the fluctuations which retailers
experience. Some manufacturers said
I > s years early Easter had reduced
, es because of the still-warm weather.
exe cutive of Allens Sweets Pty Ltd,
which makes only sugar-based con-
ectionery, said his sales were about
° P er cen t higher at present
’ aa * or same period last year.
■■ „ a^ s an( f production are progress-
• he said. “There is some price
: ln g in th e industry but not a great
hut ' u * S a highly competitive field,
' ' aS become like this over the
f pa l tw ° or three years.
f is most highly competitive from
P ° mt '°f'Sale angle where manufac-
Clicnf to b ee P one jump ahead in
Vantage.” their products to the best
'be co t°f course > is closely related to
f or || , 0E Packaging the confectionery.
li nP o ut tbe paper and foil wrapped
01 Packaging is high. Com-
that m ' * 6 P° lnt °f sale has meant
their dct . urei j s have had to pack
b ° o s in increasingly expensive
packages, due mainly to the colorful and
complicated printing involved.
For confectionery like individual
chocolates, the cardboard box, plus the
inserts (cups to hold the pieces) may
cost as much as 25 p.c. of the contents,
one manufacturer estimated. But still
the public buys, and buys in large
quantities.
The Allens executive said rising raw
material costs had increased the price
of confectionery.
“Cocoa bean prices have gone up
slightly over the past few years while
the price of glucose has remained
fairly stable,” he said.
“The cost of labor has risen and so
has the cost of machinery which, to a
specialised industry like ours, can be
very expensive. But, for the price we
pay, we get far better ana more reliable
machinery then we did a while ago.'’
He said Australian manufacturers
were able to meet current demands.
“Competition between manufacturers
is very strong; it is very good, healthy
competition and conducted in the best
spirit/’ he said. “It is so keen that if
any firm tried to market an inferior
product it would very smartly lose all
its business.
“The credit squeeze had an effect on
our business because confectionery is a
first luxury and one that people are
most likely to give up first when they
are short of money.
“I know that we can look forward to
a reasonable growth because the popula-
tion is expanding and the standard of
living is increasing. Because of this
people can indulge in these luxuries. It
also fills a diet requirement. The quality
of the product is improving all the time.
“Because of the world wide trend in
increased consumption I see no reason
why Australia shouldn’t follow suit. We
know there was an increase in sales of
confectionery when the US Surgeon-
General’s report on cancer came out.
People seem to change to cough lollies
when they give up smoking and this
directly affected us.”
An executive of Red Tulip NSW Pty
Ltd, a subsidiary of Henry Berry
Ltd, said his sales and production were
“definitely on the upswing.”
“January and February as far as sales
are concerned,” he said, “are ‘dead’
months because of the hot weather, but
in those months we are flat out pro-
ducing for the Easter rush, our biggest
time of the year. This year, with Easter
in March, although we were sold out it
was not as good as last year when we
could not meet demand. All the retail
outlets were sold out.”
Red Tulip, which makes only boxed
chocolates, has a high packaging bill
and the executive said the only way it
could be reduced would be by the intro-
duction of automation. All individual
chocolates are hand packed.
“We had a big rise in costs about a
month ago when cocoa bean prices
rose,” he said, “coupled with other rises,
the cost of confectionery also has risen.
But I don't think this will affect the
future of the industry. Consumption
per head is going up and will continue
to go up.”
An executive of James Stedman
Hendersons Sweets Limited said the
Australian market for confectionery was
strong and buoyant. James Stedman
Henderson, which makes both sugar and
chocolate-based confectionery and com-
pounds of the two, has an agreement
with Nest Jes, which does all their selling,


not to cut across each other’s fields of
manufacture.
“As with most industries our costs
are rising steadily,” he said. “We have
long service leave liberalisation, increased
annual holidays and increases in the
cost of cocoa beans to face.”
He attributed the increasing Australian
consumption of confectionery to brighter
presentation, better merchandising and
increasing population. The Australian
industry took ideas on styles of con-
fectionery from Great Britain, “the
home of confectionery,” and, to a lesser
degree, America. A part of James
Stedman Henderson’s production was
exported to the Near East.
An executive of Mastercraft Chocolate
Co. Pty Ltd said his company was try-
ing to expand exports to South East
Asia beyond the present market in
Malaysia.
“We have a manager overseas now,”
he said, “trying to develop our export
market. We hope to have an arrange-
ment with an overseas company and we
are making important contacts.”
He said his company's sales and pro-
duction for this time of year were ahead
of the same time last year. The trend
was certainly on the upgrade.
His company’s Australian orders had
been so big that he had not had time to
pay much attention to export, but he.
hoped they could capture a fair market
in the Near East shortly.
HPhe executive said he felt the consump-
tion of confectionery per head of
population in Australia was high, but
then Australians were really a con-
fectionery-eating people.
“And statements by dentists about the
cavity-forming properties of confec-
tionery don't worry us,” he said. “There
seems to be a greater awareness nowa-
days by children that oral hygiene is
most important, and they are mindful of
the fact that teeth should be looked after
—regularly.”
The executive held the opinion that
despite rising costs of raw materials,
labor and packaging, there would not be
any “terrific” increase in the price of
confectionery to the consumer. There
was greater balance now between cost of
production and cost to the consumer
than there was five years ago. Com-
petition was keeping prices down a lot,
although it was only in the last five
years that competition had had any sway
in the industry. Its influences though,
would continue and increase.
He attributed the rise in consumption
of confectionery in Australia to the
greater and freer spending power of the
public. The economic status of the
country today was so good that people
were spending a lot more on sweets.
People would always have sweets because
of their children.
The advent of television in Australia
has also helped the industry both because
of the advertising and because people
liked a sweet while watching.
There were very few tradesmen con-
fectioners left in the industry because
of the high degree of mechanisation.
“There will be big developments in
the confectionery industry very soon,”
he said. “In the next ten years or so
we could see overseas manufacturers
setting up factories here. Most Aus-
tralian manufacturers are expanding
their plant for what will undoubtedly be
vigorous expansion.”
An executive of Lifesavers (A/asia)
Ltd, which wholly owns Mastercraft, said
a high degree of mechanisation at the
Lane Cove plant had enabled the com-
pany to contain the cost of its products.
Sales and production at present were up
and there was no reason why this trend
should not continue.
He said Lifesavers (A/asia), which
bought the rights of manufacture from
the American company in 1925, pro-
duced about 20 lines compared to the
American company’s 16. It still kept
close liaison with the US firm but there
were no financial link-ups. The Aus-
tralian group had formed its own school
to teach apprentices cooking and
machinery operation.
So the confectionery manufacturers
hope for a boom period, and, short of
a recession, it seems they will get it.
Trans-West to Float
A nother Geelong-based transport
group is to float to public status. It
is Trans-West Haulage (Holdings) Ltd,
which was formed last January as a hold-
ing company for Trans-West Haulage
Pty Ltd, a specialist in bulk liquid trans-
port.
If the success of Blakistons is any
measure of the performance of Geelong
hauliers then Trans-West should get a
good market reception despite the 2s. 3d.
premium the subscribing shareholders
will have to pay on the ss. shares and
the prediction of only 9 p.c. dividends.
Blakistons joined the lists in November,
1962, after a 50,000 public share issue at
ss. par had been rushed, and directors
had indicated that dividends would be no
less than 10 p.c.
In its first public result for the year to
June 30 last, earning rate jumped from
17.25 p.c. to 22.5 p.c. and shareholders
collected an almost twice-covered 124
p.c. payout. If Trans-West pays 9 p.c.
this year, this will also be covered almost
twice if the 1963 earnings of 17.7 p.c.
are taken as a guide. They may be
higher than this.
This means that Trans-West’s 1964
performance should be very similar to
that of Blakistons in its first public year.
5 Firms to
Benefit
from £1200m.
Grants
A Melbourne broking firm has drawn
attention to five companies which
should gain the biggest benefits from the
Commonwealth Government’s recent
decision to increase the road building
grant to the States by half over the next
five years. They are Boral, Blue Metal
Industries, Pioneer Concrete, Quarry
Industries and Ready Mixed Concrete.
The Government plans to contribute
£375 million in addition to the sub-
stantial sums called for by its own plans
for big road works in the Northern
Territory and the ACT. According to
the broker, it has been estimated that
State and Commonwealth Governments
will spend from £ll5O to £l2OO million
on roads over the next five years.
The increased outlay will benefit those
companies directly or indirectly con-
cerned with road construction. The
broker says that indirect gains should
be seen in the demand for products
ranging from blue metal and concrete
to road-making machinery and earth-
moving equipment. The five companies
singled out are engaged in the supply
of the necessary materials and/or actual
construction.
Fast expanding Boral makes roads
through subsidiaries and associates in
Victoria, NSW and SA. The 196'
acquisition of the big road surfacing
-interests of BHP By-products Ltd made
it the largest company in the bitumen
surfacing field of NSW. Through several
joint concerns, indirect interests are held
in the marketing and manufacturing of
road-building materials.
Blue Metal Industries, the largest
quarrymaster in NSW, supplies ready-
mixed concrete and bituminous hot
mixes. On a nationwide basis, it is one
of the main suppliers of materials for
road and building construction as wel
as a major ready - mixed concrete p r0 ‘
ducer.
Pioneer is also a major ready-mixed
concrete producer but, as a quarry-
master, provides road metal, gravel an
sand to public authorities as well
contractors. It operates in all mainlan
States.
On the other hand, Quarry Industrie-’
operates only in SA. It supplies
for roads and building in the metr


COMPETITION
put a spoke
in this wheel
What made the penny-farthing of 1875 a collectors’ piece today?
One thing, competition.
Without competition you, the customer, could still be living in the
past. Just look around you everywhere you can see the results of
competition that have stimulated the development of Australia.
In this country there are many banks, each in competition for your
business, with the result that Australia has a banking service equal to
the best in the world.
Every Australian benefits
from Competition between Banks
FREE ENTERPRESE BAN KS
THE C.B.A. . THE C.E.C. • THE ADELAIDE • THE E.S. & A. . THE A.N.Z. . THE NATIONAL • THE WALES
WI9OD
politan area and contracts to local
Government authorities in the country
areas.
Finally, the broker touches on Ready
Mixed Concrete, Australia’s largest pro-
ducer of the product from which it takes
its name and our biggest quarrymaster.
Concrete is produced in all States while
the principal quarrying interests are in
NSW, WA and SA. The numerous
investments include holdings in com-
panies concerned with road-making,
cement production, road surfacing and
the manufacture of pre-cast and pre-
stressed concrete products.
It is fairly obvious from the broker’s
argument that RMC is best placed to
gain the most from roads in the next
five years. It has a wide geographical
spread and a well integrated range of
activities, so it is less limited to the
operations in any one area than the
others. Directors have strategically
located the raw material sources so
that full advantage can be taken of
expansion in almost any part of Aus-
tralia.
While RMC will be the most affected
by the future of roads, Boral will bt the
least because of extensive interest else-
where. Apart from oil refining, it is
also connected with petro-chemicals,
copper and coal mining, domestic gas
and, through a gigantic investment port-
folio, with fertiliser companies, oil
explorers and an interstate shipper. Thus,
the road-building industry will have a
relatively small effect on Boral’s earn-
ings.
Because Pioneer operates on an almost
nationwide basis, it is in a very similar
position to RMC. It is much smaller,
however, and will be facing stiff com-
petition unless demands become excessive.
Nevertheless, its relatively small size
gives it greater efficiency and a closer
contact with customers. Both these
factors carry weight, as is evidenced by
the 35 p.c. profit increase in 1963 despite
generally unfavorable conditions.
Blue Metal Industries looks attractive
because it stands to gain from expansion
in the building industry as well as in
road construction. As a producer of tex-
ture bricks and road materials, this com-
pany is probably in a position to score
the biggest profit gains of the five com-
panies because its future lies in two
industries, one of which is enjoying
extremely rapid expanison. Although
Blue Metal will undoubtedly gain from
road supplies, it is the building materials
which can lift its profits to even greater
heights.
Quarry Industries is severely limited
to SA roads operations only, so it is
more hampered than those companies
I operating in several States. But, like
Blue Metal, it supplies to the building
! mdustry so the future holds much
promise.


Our Trade with Asia
Exports nearly doubled in five years
By E. J. DONATH
(Asst Lecturer in Econ. Geog., University of Melbourne)
HThe remarkable expansion of our ex-
JL ports to Asian countries in recent
years is often not fully realised in this
country.
About 40 p.c. of Australia’s wool ex-
ports—our No. 1 export commodity—
goes to the continent of Asia; last year
three-quarters of our wheat surplus
our No. 2 export commodity was
purchased by Asian countries. Large
amounts of meats, dairy products,
minerals, and even manufactured goods
are shipped from Australia to Asian
countries; last year Asia was the main
destination of our export of coal, salt,
condensed milk, tallow, copper ores,
motor vehicles, opals, hides and skins,
and petrol products.
This is a recent change in the destina-
tion of our exports and the importance
and implications of this change are
frequently not stressed enough. In view
of the “inward-looking” policy of the
European Economic Community and
the likelihood of other European coun-
tries joining them, there is no doubt
that the continent of Asia is going to be
of increasing importance as a destina-
tion of Australia’s surplus production in
the years ahead.
It is significant that at the last meet-
ing of the United Nations Economic
Commission for Asia and the Far East
(ECAFE), Australia applied to be
accepted as a “regional member”.
Ethnically we are Europeans, but geo-
graphically we are Asians. Sir Garfield
Barwick, Minister for External Affairs,
said recently that “Australians are the
only Europeans who have permanently
settled in Asia.”
In 1962-63, the exports to our Near
North neighboring countries amounted
to £346m., or 32.1 p.c. of our total
exports. These are the countries which
the Commonwealth Statistician com-
bines under “Eastern Countries”. Pre-
war, these countries purchased only a
little more than 10 p.c. of our exports,
and more than two-thirds used to go
to Europe.
Japan has become our second-best
and Mainland China our fourth-best
customers. In fact, Japan has replaced
Britain as our No. 1 customer for the
first seven months of this financial year.
Australia trades with about 40 coun-
tries in Asia, and there is no doubt that
the continent of Asia has become a vital
market for Australia’s farm surplus.
Australian wool is exported to more
than a dozen countries in Asia, among
them China, Hong Kong, India, Iran,
Irak, Japan, Formosa, Turkey, Paki-
stan, Korea and Israel.
The second-largest Asian buyer of
our wool is China, which has become
our eighth-best wool customer. Exports
of wool to China averaged about film,
in the last two years.
There was an interesting change in
the composition of our wool exports to
China; last year about 85 p.c. was
greasy wool, but in 1961-62 about 50
p.c. was processed wool.
It has been estimated that China
might need about 450 m. lb of wool by
1970, as wool consumption there is still
very low 0.2 lb a head compared
with the (still low) 2.5 lb a head in
Japan. In the first eight months of this
financial year, China purchased from
Australia wool to the value of £ 12.1 m.
an increase of 73 p.c. on the same
period of 1962-63.
11/heat has been exported to Asian
” countries in larger quantities than to
Europe since 1952/53, long before the
controversial sales to China. Last cereal
year ending November 30, 1963, about
three-quarters of our wheat exports went
to Asian countries. Since December,
1960, Communist China has bought
280 m. bushels, contributing about £2som.
to our earnings of foreign exchange. The
International Wheat Council has fore-
cast that, for a number of reasons, China
will continue to import wheat.
Japan is our second-best Asian wheat
customer, purchasing last year over £sm.
worth. Japan has become one of the
largest wheat-importing countries, and
Australia usually contributes 15 p.c. to
its three million tons of imports.
India was our third largest wheat
buyer in Asia, purchasing over £sm.
worth of wheat and flour in 1962/63.
Under the agreement with the United
States (which supplies India with practic-
ally its total import requirements on non-
commercial terms), India is obliged to
buy on “normal marketing*’ terms
400,000 tons from Australia. Last year
this quantity was halved in order to
relieve the pressure on India's foreign
exchange reserves.
India pays for the American wheat
in rupees on long credit terms but has
to pay Australia cash in sterling. Would
it not be prudent, for a number of
reasons, to offer India wheat on credit
terms, especially as we “risked” much
larger quantities with Communist China?
For many decades the main destina-
tion of our flour export has been Asia.
Usually half of our total flour exports
(last year worth £l6m.) goes to Ceylon
and Malaysia.
Last year, the largest Asian buyer of
our frozen beef and veal was Singapore
(£800,000) followed by Japan, Hong
Kong and the Philippines. The largest
Asian buyers of our mutton and lamb
were Japan, Malaysia, Hong Kong and
Pakistan. Japan has become Australia’s
fourth largest and Malaysia our fifth
largest meat customer.
Asia has become the main market for
our condensed milk products and a very
important market for casein. About
90 p.c. of our exports of condensed and
concentrated milk goes to Asian
countries. Last year Malaysia purchased
nearly 50 p.c. of our total exports and
Burma about one-third.
Tndia has become our best customer of
skim milk powder, purchasing over
40 p.c. of our total exports.
Over 90 p.c. of our coal exports
went to Asia last year, practically the
whole of our copper ores and concen-
trates, and over one-third of bauxite
exports. Recently the export of alumina
has commenced to Asia.
Last year, Australia exported over
£loom. worth of manufactured goods,
a large part of which went to Asian
countries.
Over half of our total exports of
motor vehicles went to Asian countries
—Malaysia (nearly £lm.), Hong Kong
(over £100,000), Ceylon and Indonesia,
Tractors were purchased by India,
Malaysia, Philippines and Thailand.
Australia also exported petroleum
products to Asian countries, the largest
amount going to Malaysia (£4m.) and
Japan (over £3m.).
Whilst there has been only a small
increase in our imports from the Eastern
Countries (from £l29m. in 1958-59, to
£l67m. last year), our exports practically
doubled in the same period (from £lB4m.
to £346m.).
There is no doubt that Asian-Aus-
tralian trade relations will continue to
increase. In this connection it is
interesting to note that the airlines have
been keen to exploit this opportunity,
especially in the field of cargo move-
ments. At present five airlines connect
Australia with Asia with 21 flights a
week each way Qantas, BOAC, Air
India, Alitalia, and KLM.
Last year, Qantas launched an “export
by air” campaign among Australian
exporters, and it is conceivable that by
the end of the ’sixties air cargo may
well be the airlines’ major source of
revenue.
An area with more than half of the
world's total population has become
amazingly close to this continent. The
many recent changes in transportation
are sure to increase trading between the
most populous continent and the “empty
continent.


a «*
■P
■
*
; f ;;:|gS|iSi
Why fly 8000 miles to try a 727 ?
LAI26IIA
If there is adventure in your soul, a
frustrated Bleriot in your subconscious,
this announcement will interest you.
You could be the first Australian
passenger to fly in the long awaited 727
short haul jet. Early in 1964 Lufthansa
becomes the first airline to put this sleek
symphony in speed into regular service
in Europe.
The 727 will take the air in time-slashipg
runs on the extensive Lufthansa
European, Middle East and Near East
Network.
If you are planning a trip to Europe in
the immediate future it is not as imprac-
tical as you might think to consider some
advance 727 experience.
Probably somewhere along the route you
could transfer to a Lufthansa 727, enjoy
some cities you would not normally visit
and still get to your destination with
time to spare.
And, if you are keen to sample the
difference Lufthansa can make to your
flying, you can start as close as Bangkok
with a destination choice of 49 cities
across 5 continents at your command
Just say “Book some Lufthansa” to your
travel agent.
Why not?
YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR TAA HAS FULL DETAILS
Lufthansa
German Airlines


when you need an inventive approach to concrete or steel engineering.
h umes
thought of
an easier way...
Bending steel is hard work. Our friend in
the picture is making very little impression
on comparatively light-gauge steel. We doubt
if he’ll ever bend it into the shape of a pipe.
Yet, Humes machines make perfectly round
pipes from heavy steel up to li" thick, in
lengths up to 40 feet. The process illustrated
was introduced in 1927, as was the continuous
welding process which joins seams of the pipe.
Today, Humes Steel Division applies an
inventive approach to all types of steel projects:
pipes from 4" to 228" diameter and all
types of steel fabrication. Recently
Humes won a £A2.2 million contract for the
construction and installation of the Murray 1
penstocks in the Snowy Mountains
Hydro-Electric scheme. This is the largest steel
pipe contract ever let to an Australian Company.
MASTERS IN CONCRETE SC STEEL
Head Office: Hume House, 185 William St., Melbourne. 67 8101.
Offices and factories in all states.
Today Humes Limited is a group of companies with
vast resources of skill and knowledge in many fields
of engineering and fabrication: steel pipes, fabricated
steel products, concrete pipes and all types of pre-
stressed and precast concrete products.
HX.«9B
:>• I* \ m
f I
a
: :s?.


MARKET POINTERS
The Watchful Governor Coombs
TThe share market, if not already con-
vinced, should heed the warning im-
plicit in the Reserve Bank's latest use of
the flexible interest rate weapon. As from
April 8, fixed deposit rates rose by 3 p.c.
By permitting the trading banks to
charge higher rates on fixed deposits the
Reserve Bank again confirms its policy
of siphoning off any surplus liquidity
which might otherwise contribute to in-
flation.
Tnis action, although generally ex-
pected, came swiftly after the recent
sharp call-up of more than £loom. of
trading bank funds into frozen account.
And, with higher bank overdraft rates in
prospect, the machinery is all set to damp
down any accumulated spending which
might be considered excess.
For years financial writers have been
deploring that Australia w'as not using
the sophisticated weapons of interest rate
manipulation such as employed by over-
seas countries. Now, on Dr Coombs’
example, there can be no complaint
about the fact that the Reserve Bank
has established a definite pattern of main-
taining a close supervision over money
flowing through the economy.
It has restored greater influence to
the banks and has permitted more com-
petition with the official and unofficial
short-term money markets. The trading
banks now may pay interest up to 3f p.c.
on deposits of £50,000 or more lodged
for periods of between 30 days to three
months. This will assist the banks to
compete with the private inter-company
lending market which has sprung up
and which has been backed to the mor-
tification of the banks, by the unused
overdraft limits of various lenders.
These moves generally should tend to
increase interest rates in the commercial
arena and doubtless the banks will attract
more money on fixed deposit which
otherwise could have gone to public
company borrowers. This could suggest
that debenture raisings could be more
difficult for the finance companies and
that higher interest rates may be neces-
sary on public debenture borrowings.
Oale of the CHEVRON SYDNEY for
£2km. was accompanied by a
report from the Receiver that the £lOO
first mortgage debenture holders should
receive about £B4 in repayments.
The immediate response in the mar-
ket was a sale in Melbourne of £6l 10s.,
which was rather a cautious assessment
of the statement made on the debenture
repayments. Reason for this caution is
the fact that the repayments will be
made over five years. Assuming the
Receiver is correct in his assessment,
there is still some margin available in
the first mortgage debentures.
k k ★
/Chevron Sydney ordinary shares
slumped from 6d. to 1 id. after the
announcement of the hotel sale. But
speculators had been gambling on a price
considerably higher than £2im., plus the
sale of the company shell for purposes
of tax losses.
But, with so many people lining up for
debts, it is difficult to see how ordinary
shareholders could benefit. An agree-
ment would need to be made setting aside
all liabilities so that the purchaser of the
ordinary shares is indemnified.
Also, the losses can only be offset
against trading operations within five
years from the year of the loss. And, as
the Chevron sale has dragged on for
some years, the benefits of those tax losses
have diminished in value to a prospective
purchaser.
k k k
11/oolworths Ltd leaped into the
"' prestige position of record retail
sales when it published figures of a
£l2sm. annual turnover for the year to
January. Myer Emporium had been the
previous titleholder on published figures
of £ll4m. in the year to. July, 1963.
The important figure, however, is tlje
rate of net profit to sales, which is about
2.4 p.c. for Woolwortlis. The profit, in
turn, must be related to the amount of
ordinary capital issued.
It goes to prove that retailers are
forced into the rat race for continued
expansion in an effort to hold sales
against rising competition and higher
costs.
Woolwortlis has gone into the export
trade and has registered companies in
Malaysia, Thailand, Hong Kong and the
Philippines. It’s a far cry from the old
variety store business which used to
show such handsome profit margins.
Investors today are interested in try-
ing to pick the next takeover, but the
field is thinning out.
As a long term prospect, Grace Bro-
thers has always been regarded as a very
attractive, but expensive, plum and pro-
bably is appraised more keenly by the
department> store groups rather than the
chain store giants.
if k ★
Qtack & Co., a Sydney Holden distri-
butor, certainly must serve as a warn-
ing against over-enthusiasm during a car
boom.
The company reported last week that
it suffered a sharp decline in profit after
losses on used vehicles and a shortage
of Holden stocks.
Fortunately the Peter Lloyd division,
merged with Stack a year ago, showed
improved sales.
Doubtless there were plenty of used
car dealers who had problems when
sales tax on new cars dropped from
30 p.c. to 22i p.c. Combined with the
increased competition for trade-in sales
in the past few years, the market for
used cars has proved a tough business.
If other dealers have had the same
experience as Stack, some of the share
market prices could be too high. So it
would be a good idea for all public
companies in the vehicle distributing
business to inform their shareholders
fully of the current situation.
Stack & Co., at the time of writing,
had not expanded on its bald statement
and shareholders are entitled to a fuller
explanation.
★ * ★
interesting exercise over the next
few months is to watch the 6 p.c.
convertible 10s. notes of DA VID JONES
LTD. They rank in all respects with
the ordinary shares, except that they
bear interest at 6 p.c., and mature on
July 31. at ss. premium. In other words,
the holder receives one ss. David Jones
ordinary share for each note held.
If the notes get out of line and become
cheaper than the ordinary shares they
should be picked up as an economical
entry into David Jones.


INVESTMENT SECTION
A Bite at the Biscuits
Nabisco’s threat to Arnott-Brockhoff merger
T>y the time this issue of The Bulletin
-*-* reaches the streets, or soon after,
the Australian Biscuit Co. will very
likely have made a second bid for
Swallow and Ariell’s ordinary, prefer-
ence and convertible note scrip. The
first bid .of 455. a unit was made to
counter a 40s. offer made earlier by
Nabisco Pty Ltd, who quickly retaliated
with a 50s. bait last Thursday.
Nabisco, one of Australia’s largest
producers of breakfast foods, is a sub-
sidiary of the National Biscuit Co., of
New York, the biggest biscuit manu-
facturer in the US. The Bulletin of
March 21, pointed out the attraction
which Swallows held for Nabisco,
especially seeing that its present Aus-
tralian operations had been losing money.
The fear with which Arnotts and
Brockhoffs regard Nabisco’s entry into
the biscuit market was first revealed
last June, when the two merged into the
ABC as a protective measure. Neither
was very happy with the thought of the
other being taken over and their move
gave the new company about 70 per cent
of the market. This fear has been fully
revealed by tbe latest skirmish.
And it is not unfounded. National
Biscuit is a dynamic and successful
group. Its effect on Australian Biscuits
would not go unfelt, especially once it
started trying to boost Swallow’s 8 to 9
per cent market share by introducing
some of its best-selling American
varieties.
The thought of taking a decent sized
bite of the market is virtually Nabisco’s
sole reason for wanting Swallows. At
the price of 50s. a share, very little
would be gained in owning the assets
unless the market share could be boosted
substantially.
If Nabisco does step in, any increased
percentage could also come from the
markets of George Weston (Canadian
owned) and Peek Frean (UK owned),
who each hold about the same share
as Swallows. Any reduction in this
could mean curtains for them, as they
are already struggling against the pre-
sent giant. On the other hand, if the
ABC succeeds, then their share would
probably be fairly safe as its motive is
only to protect itself and not increase
Swallow’s percentage.
Of course, all this bidding raises the
question of finance and the possibility
of the ABC turning public. Because of
National Biscuit’s size, it probably has
enough resources to go on bidding in-
definitely. Similarly, the ABC is known
to be in a very healthy financial state.
In addition, its association with Mel-
bourne broker J. B. Were and Son would
undoubtedly enable it to bid quite sub-
stantially.
So this means that it will not be
turning public in order to finance the
acquisition, if it comes off. Neverthe-
less, it is widely believed in many well-
informed industrial and financial circles
that the Australian public will have a
chance of investing in this extremely
successful company in another two or
three years. If this be the case, the
ABC float will be one of the most sought
after in Stock Exchange history, depend-
ing of course on what premium, if any,
is charged on the shares.
If the ABC succeeds in its efforts,
it will be in what could virtually be called
a -monopoly position through an over
80 per cent share of the market. How-
ever, there will be a different story to
tell if Nabisco wins the battle and
eventually increases its piece of the
market—a very unsavory thought for
the Brockhoff and Arnott families.
Blue Hills?
IV/fosT BHP shareholders appeared to
remain faithfully unshaken by the
94 d. final dividend, though many must
have been expecting a great leap for-
ward to the lOd. level again. Certainly
the markets were buzzing with the possi-
bility of that achievement.
In the event, prices dropped back a
week after the announcement from
595. 6d. to 58s. 6d., where the yield on
the full 7.71 p.c. payment is 2.6 p.c. and
earnings yield on a 1962-63 basis stands
at 5 p.c. A lOd. consummation can
reasonably be expected with the Novem-
ber interim.
The markets harbor no doubts of a
striking 1963-64 result, though this alone
can scarcely be expected to quicken
investors’ excitement before the details
are released in July.
Interpreting the auguries of a new
share issue must be engaging consider-
able attention, however, since here resides
the consoling rewards for the harsh yoke
of dividend patience. Directors’ supple-
mentary report spoke about “a continu-
ing high rate of capital expenditure.”
So a possible issue, even away from
fixed interest, need not look very remote,
even if it inevitably comes bearing a
premium.
Meanwhile BHP scholasticism carries
a rather staid expression, fittingly
summed up by a Melbourne broker:
“There is no apparent justification for
the stock to be priced lower than the
other ‘blue chip’ companies . . . Longer
term holders will undoubtedly benefit
from the future growth of the company.”
Who’s the Greatest?
THhe annual contest is on between the
big retailers to determine which is
the greatest.
Woolworths has announced its profit
for the year to January 29, 1964, as
£2.9 million, and sales of £125 million.
It has six and seven months’ edge on
Myers and G. J. Coles, which balance
mid-year.
Here is the score at present:
Year Earning
ending Sales Capital Profit rate
WOOLWORTHS
Jan. 29, 1964 £l2sm. £lBm. £2.9m. 16.1%
G. J. COLES
June 29, 1963 £98.3m. £22.3m. £3.7m. 16.8%
MYERS
July 31, 1963 £114.3m. £13.8m. £4.lm. 31.4%
Woolworths prides itself on its con-
tribution to keeping down the cost of
living and in the 1963-64 annual report
just released says after-tax profit was a
mere 2.4 p.c. on sales. Australian goods
represented 95 p.c of company sales,
and Woolworths intends to export to
South-East Asian countries.
Investors have been warned that no
share issue may be expected in 1964.
At January 29, £3,386,750 had been
received from the £sm. 7 p.c. notes
placement (private), and the company
was planning to mortgage property and
sell others under purchase-lease con-
ditions to take care of 1964 capital
needs.
Coles’ stock is currently on a shorter
yield than Woolworths’ (2.9 p.c. against
3.3 p.c.), as Sir Edgar Coles said in
February that his company would pro-
bably want more capital in this, its 50th
sear.
Myers, with greater bonus potential
than the other two retailers —compare
the earning rates —is on a 2.2 p.c. yield
basis at 365. 3d.
Directors Pessimistic
Qydney furniture retailer, Morley
Johnson Holdings Ltd sank into
unprofitable trading in the first half of
1963-64, after earning nominal profits
only in the previous full year.
Sales were considerably lower, and
directors saw no prospect of immediate
improvement. No interim dividend was
recommended.
The finance subsidiary’s plan to widen
its range of activities, embracing finance
of motor vehicles, home improvements
and personal loans (announced by the
chairman last October) arouses some
doubts as to the company’s ability to
succeed in a field well trodden by the
finance giants.


i:
S
1
m-
\
F=
ST.
Lysaght Klip-Lok 'Sixteen
Galvanized Steel Decking.
When it comes to roofing—Lysaght covers everything
There is
nothing
stronger
than
STEEL
Streamlined appearance . .. great structural
strength . . . surprisingly low cost. Lysaght
Galvanized Steel Sheet covers everything
you look for in roofing materials and you
don't need to spend a penny on mainten-
ance for many years.
A Lysaght roof says the right things about
any building. There are no unsightly laps
or joins; fixing time is dramatically reduced;
and you can clad any roof from the steep-
est gable to the lowest pitch. Every sheet
carries a heavy zinc coating of at least 1.75
ozs. per sq. ft. to ensure long life.
Choose from five “new look” profiles: Klip-
Lok ‘Sixteen,’ Spandek, Trimdek, Colour-
plated and Corrugated/Red Orb. Long-
length decking now roll formed at Ultimo,
N.S.W. See the display at the Building
Information Centre, 525 Elizabeth St. Sth.,
Sydney. Quotations aranged for “supply
and fix” of all roofing and walling products
in conjunction with the plumbing trade.
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
P.O. Box 386, Broadway. Phones 68 3151, 69 6154
LYSAGKT STEEL SHEET


£
IQ
RA
Q
SEVEN TO TEN YEARS
UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES
TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
7%
p.a
FIVE TO SIX YEARS
6v 2 %
THREE TO FOUR YEARS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Reginald Myles Ansett (Chairman & Managing
Director), Raymont Moore, Air Marshal Sir George
Jones, Joseph Noel Lord, Sir Douglas Berry
Copland.
Applications can be accepted only on the printed form
attached to the Prospectus which can be obtained direct
from
* Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
*An sett Transport Industries, 129 Phillip St., Sydney.
' Any branch of the English, Scottish and Australian
§<»nk Ltd.
' Any branch of the Australia & New Zealand Bank Ltd.
Curran & Co. (Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange), 9-11 Hunter St., Sydney.
ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LTD.
129 Phillip St., Sydney. Ph. 20364 tbss/13,.4
Please send me a copy of your 7V2% Prospectus
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
T6/v!78l/l6
Thin Slice for Shareholders
Anderson Meat Industries Ltd has
sliced off something for the share-
holders after four years’ absence from
the dividend lists.
The company only made one loss
a thumping £186,262 in 1959-60 —and
in the last year to June reported a
respectable profit of £112,995 or 18.4
p.c. on capital.
But it was not until another profitable
six months had elapsed that directors
took sufficient heart to declare an interim
dividend of 3 p.c.
Such caution deserves recognition and
the shares should quickly move over the
par (205.) barrier.
Greater demand throughout the in-
dustry brought livestock values to an
extremely high level in the first half of
1963-64.
Floor Coverer Slips
A price of 1 Is. for the ss. shares of
linoleum and vinyl tile maker,
Michael Nairn and Co. (Australia) Ltd,
shows more deference to the reserves
than appreciation of the trading position.
The directors’ report for the year to
December, 1963, draws attention to the
major change in the smooth floor cover-
ing market by stating that in 1963
depreciation was doubled to provide for
the obsolescence of existing equipment—
“this practice will continue until adequate
provisions have been established”.
If the company indicated that it were
moving more solidly into the new types
of floor coverings and chasing
additional markets, shareholders could
be more patient.
Heavy write-down of stocks (ad-
mittedly from existing provisions), large
provisions for depreciation, applications
for higher tariff protection, and attention
to costs are not enough.
Chown Plies a Good Trade
IA/lore stability is brought to A. J.
Chown's financial structure in the
replacement of unsecured deposits by
long-term debenture borrowings. Various
large institutions have privately sub-
scribed to £BOO,OOO in debenture stock.
The company, a Sydney wholesaler,
importer, veneer and plywood maker, is
enjoying favorable trading conditions.
Two-thirds of the way through 1963-64,
sales were up 11 p.c. on the corres-
ponding eight months to February 28,
1963, and directors believe the profit
improvement was more than pro-
portionate.
A 123 p.c. dividend is the unbroken
rule with this company. Shareholders
mgy look for indirect benefits by way of
another cash issue in the not-too-distant
future, although apparently some holders
were disappointed that an issue was not
forthcoming now.
The shares weakened from 12s. 3d.
a week or so before to 11s. 3d. on the
day the interim report was released,
allowing cheap entry for the on-the-spot
investor.
Institution Helps Shelleys
Ohelleys Drinks Ltd has obtained
support from “a leading life office”.
The life office was induced to make
a debenture loan of £85,000 by the offer
of 80,000 ss. ordinary shares at 10s. 3d.,
or at about 4s. Id. discount on the
market price.
A separate placement was made else-
where of 15,000 ss. ordinary shares at
13s. 4d., to buy land and buildings.
It was only 14 months ago that shares


OPENING DATE OF ISSUE, MARCH 20, 1964
Incorporated under the Companies Act of N.S.W. on
March 8, 1950
c COB P ORATI ON LIMITED
DEBENTURE STOCK
wmmm
mmm
PER ANNUM—6, BOR 10 YEARS
LONG TERM RATES
8% P.A 6, 8 or 10 years
7%% P-A 5 years
7i/ 2 % P.A 4 years
714% P.A 3 years
7% P.A 2 years
Applications can only be accepted on the form attached
to, and referred to in the prospectus.
HOW TO INVEST:
Application forms and prospectus may be obtained from:
® Any Branch of the Bank of New South Wales.
« Any Member of the Stock Exchange.
• THE COMPANY’S OFFICES: Cambridge Hause,
249 George Street, Sydney. 'Phone: 27-8621.
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Canberra, Newcastle.
9105/1C
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
COB P OK ATICW.LJ MITEt)
were placed with the public, to obtain
Stock Exchange listing, at 6s. ssd. plus
charges. On first trading they sold at
10s. 3d., and the shares have never
looked back.
Conserve the Reserves
Qulphates, Melbourne chemical manu-
facturer and engineer, certainly does
things in a roundabout way.
In the 1961 financial year a 5 p.c.
ordinary dividend was paid despite a
loss of £5348. In 1962 and 1963 the
payout was lifted to 6 p.c. although
further losses of £18,804 and £12,835
respectively were incurred.
Last week’s interim report said that
overall operations had been profitable in
the half year but, surprisingly, the interim
payment is to be omitted.
The directors said they made this
move in order in conserve funds and
added that the question would be recon-
sidered when the full year’s results were
at hand.
It seems that they have left the
problem of conservation rather late, see-
ing that dividends have already eaten
heavily into the reserves over the last
three years. For all practical purposes,
preference and ordinary dividends have
been the main culprits in crumpling them
from the healthy £228,000 of 1960 to
£90,000 at June 30 last. However, this
latter figure is actually shown as
£317,000 in the balance sheet because
during 1961-62 a revaluation of freehold
property created an additional reserve
of £227,000.
Even though this move is rather over-
due it is still a wise one. Seeing that
operations are again profitable, the
directors will need all the cash they
can lay their hands on to make full use
of the recovery. However, it is doubtful
whether 1964 will turn in a result equal
to the unspectacular £46,239 of 1960,
which returned 11.6 p.c. on capital and
gave shareholders a 9 p.c. distribution.
One to Buy?
lowing record sales and profit
which “improved considerably” in
the December half-year, Siddons Indus-
tries looks a likely candidate for a divi-
dend increase, or maybe a share issue
in . 1964. At the current price of
9s. 9d., which sports a good dividend
yield of 5.1 p.c. the placing of a buy-
ing order is very tempting
Last year’s earnings equalled 14.4 p.c.
on paid capital and, as Siddons is app-
arently doing so much better this year,
the 10 p.c. dividend looks like being
twice covered. Shareholders may well
share in the prosperity which this
manufacturer of forged hand tools and
automotive parts is enjoying. A divi-
dend lift could be made quite safely.
The possibility of a bonus issue is also
there.
Of course, the prospects of a cash
issue are just as good if the current
buoyancy continues and the company
finds that it needs liquid funds for fur-
ther expansion. The scrip is not high
enough on the market to warrant a pre-
mium issue, so if one is made, share-
holders can be pretty sure that it will
be at par. But such a situation may
make borrowed finance more attractive
to directors.
Plane Creek’s Staggerer
first sugar company to report profit
for the 1 963 season was Plane Creek
Central Mill Co. Ltd, which staggered
investors by lifting profit 137 p.c. above
its previous best reported result.
Profit actually rose from £145,363 to
£345,981, earning rate from 26.9 to 48.9
p.c., although output was down by a
quarter. Shareholders receive a divi-
dend of 16 p.c. compared with 10 p.c.
two years ago.
The 20s. shares recently brought 755.
for the lucky holder, as against 40s. at
the end of March, 1961. Income return
is 4.0 p.c. on a current purchase, with
scope for benefits.
The Woolbroking Twins
New Zealand Loan Ltd moved to
new heights of 665. 6d. on receipt of
news that dividend would be enhanced
to 10 p.c. this current year to June.
This is the second 1 p.c. increment
since the merger and is concrete evidence
of the wisdom of that move.
Fears that the larger organisation
might be unwieldy and conceal in-
efficiencies have been dissipated, and
shareholders can confidently look for-
ward to an advance on last year’s earning
rate of 16.3 p.c.
The company has been assisted during
its period of reorganisation by buoyant
commodity prices.
Dalgety and NZ Loan's consolidation
has been closely parallelled by that of
Elder Smith and Goldsbrough Mort,
which is also expected to move up to a
10 p.c. dividend rate this year.
Both woolbrokers, stock and station
agents and pastoralists—Dalgety bought
Pastoral Development (Holdings) last
December the two stocks are level-
pegging on a 3.8 p.c. yield basis.
Howard Smith’s Sweetener
Tn the spate of stockbrokers’ bulletins
on the sugar industry and sugar
stocks, not one thought was spared for
Howard Smith Ltd.
Its wholly - owned subsidiary, Aus-
tralian Sugar Co. Pty Ltd, though small
by comparison with most other Aus-


UNITY LIFE
UNITY LIFE ASSURANCE LIMITED
(Incorp. in A.C.T.)
Associated with
THE LONDON ASSURANCE GROUP
AND
SUN AND ALLIANCE INSURANCE GROUPS
Applications are invited for the position of
MANAGER
for New South Wales
of UNITY LIFE ASSURANCE LIMITED
RESPONSIBILITIES: The successful applicant will be responsible for the
development of the Company's agency force in New South Wales.
QUALIFICATIONS: Thorough knowledge of sales organisation together
with ability to recruit and train a force of quality representatives and
Life Inspectors.
CONDITIONS: The position will carry a salary and other benefits com-
mensurate with its importance.
APPLICATIONS: Written enquiries or applications are required and will
be treated in strict confidence. They should be addressed to: —
A. Barnett,
General Manager,
UNITY LIFE ASSURANCE LIMITED,
Box 3882, G.P.0., Sydney.
tralian sugar producers, was generally
conceded (in the absence of explanation
from directors) to be the chief source of
Howard Smith’s profit improvement in
1963.
Trading profit catapulted from
£373,334 to £720,969, but the net result
after tax and including investment in-
come but not profit on the sale of invest-
ments on fixed assets, rose from
£388,381 to £675,151.
Were the other group activities
coastal shipping, engineering and coal-
mining more profitable than usual?
Or is the management being less con-
servative in its accounting? Shareholders
await the annual meeting (April 30)
with curiosity.
Market value of the investment port-
folio at December 31 was £2 million
above the book value of £4.7 million.
The 20s. shares which had been avail-
able around 555. 6d. before the 1963
accounts were released, were traded
overnight at 58s. and still looked very
good value.
Lowes’ Record Profit
Qydney men’s wear retailer Lowes Ltd
produced in the year to February
a record profit of £86,470 equal to 18.7
p.c. on capital.
Comparisons with the previous term
of 13 months are not very relevant, but
there’s no question about the progress
made from the trough of 1960.
Dividend made another advance, this
time from 91 to 10 p.c. for the year to
February 29.
In pricing the ss. shares at close to
10s. 6d. investors have not forgotten the
one-for-one scrip handout of 1955, and
the three-for-five bonus six years earlier.
But for the time being, they need not
expect more than a small dividend
increment.
Stack’s Used Car Losses
TAirectors of Stack and Co. Ltd con-
sidered a used car division a neces-
sary adjunct to new car trading, but
they have not found it so easy to make
money on used cars.
Losses in this division of Stacks con-
tinued in the six months to December,
and although it is reported that trading
is more satisfactory, it is not yet de-
clared profit-earning.
A shortage of new Holdens contri-
buted to Stack’s difficulties, but the
Peter Lloyd section of the business
made decided advances with its Holden
distribution in the first half of 1963-64.
Market price is Bs. 9d. for the ss.
shares, to show a yield of 8.6 p.c. on
the steady 15 p.c. dividend. Compare
this with 11s. 3d. in July, 1962 when it
was announced that Peter Lloyd had
bought a large holding of Stack shares
for an average price of 13s 2d., pre-
paratory to a full merger!
DAC’s Trend Right
1963-64 profit for Direct Accept-
ance Corporation Ltd (formerly
Direct Cash Orders) should be better
than last year’s £228,827 which was
16.7 p.c. on capital, according to indi-
cations at the half-way mark.
Yield of 8.3 p.c. while the ss. shares
bring 6s. on the market shows the gap
between this financier and the bank-
associated ones which return under 5 p.c.
However, DAC deserves recognition
for its emergence from recent difficult
times with ever-increasing profit, and
no extraordinary bad debts.
In November, 1961, directors realised
that the company must retain a greater
proportion of its earnings, and the divi-
dend rate which had been 15 p.c. was
pruned to 124 p.c. and subsequently
10 p.c.
On that pay-out basis the company
has avoided liquidity problems, and
consolidated its borrowing position. Last
March the company had no trouble in
filling a £250,000 debenture and note
issue.
A Profitable Wind-up
£578,125 payment made by
A Hoover (Australia) to purchase the
two operating subsidiaries of Consumer
Services has the same effect as a take-
over offer. The figure boils down to
18s. 6d. for every 10s. Consumer
share.
Some time ago Hoover decided to
terminate the distribution franchise
which Consumer had for its products
and undertake the task itself. Negotia-
tions later resulted in the decision to
also buy the distributing and finance
subsidiaries themselves, offer Consumer
staff a parallel position in the Hoover
group and continue the Consumer pen-
sion scheme.
So everything is finally settled. Con-
sumer has sold out and will be wound-
up, after which shareholders will collect
the proceeds.
Of course, all this will have to be
approved at Consumers’ extraordinary
meeting on May 4, but there should be
no difficulty. Directors have emphatic-
ally pointed out that entrance into some
other field could be less profitable than
the capital collection.
Their attitude is commendable it
gives shareholders a chance to reinvest
in whatever they like, instead of having
to watch their money being ploughed
into a field which may not be of their
own choice and of which directors
might know very little.


SECURITY ANALYSIS
Ampol’s Commitments Heavy
But Lytton Refinery could be very profitable
T ast week we discussed H. C. Sleigh
with particular reference to the
question of the future earnings growth
required merely to maintain the present
dividend rate. There is great similarity
between Ampol Petroleum Ltd and
Sleigh not only in their activities but also
in their capital structure. Consequently
a similar exercise can be performed to
advantage.
First of all, it is necessary to point
out that at 11s. H. C. Sleigh showed
a yield of 5.7 p.c., but because Ampol is
paying 0.7 shillings per share as against
Sleigh's 0.625 shillings per share, an
investor would receive the same return
from Ampol’s shares if he paid 12s. 3d.
for them.
In recent weeks the shares have been
selling at almost precisely the same
price, so investors are either expecting
an increase of 0.075 shillings in the per
share dividend of Sleigh while Ampol's
dividend remains the same; or they are
expecting Ampol’s dividend rate to fall
to 123 p.c. almost immediately or to
decline to a lower percentage over a
period.
Over the last seven years, the trend in
the growth of per share dividends has
been as follows, using the 1957 year as
a base:—
Year Ampol H. C. Sleigh
1957 100 100
1958 108 113
1959 113 136
1960 146 147
1961 149 170
1962 153 170
1963 165 170
This table indicates that H. C. Sleigh
has shown greater growth although there
has been no growth in H. C. Sleigh’s per
share dividends over the last three years.
problem is to try to assess future
A growth As pointed out in the H. C.
Sleigh analysis, earnings will need to
increase at the rate of 3.7 p.c. per
annum just to maintain the dividend rate.
In the case of Ampol, earnings will need
to increase at a much greater rate, be-
cause by 1967-68 all present issued
capital, including deferred shares and
convertible notes, will rank with ordinary
shares for dividend, lifting the dividend
commitment at the 14 p.c. rate to about
£4,112,000.
To meet this commitment, earnings
will peed to increase at the rate of over
10 p.c. per annum over the next five
years, which is a much greater annual
rate than H. C. Sleigh will need to
maintain.
In Ampol’s case the unknown factor
is the Lytton refinery, which, judging
by some of the results available from
refineries already established in Aus-
tralia. has every prospect of being very
profitable in due course. In the early
years, however —and it is not expected
10 commence operations until mid 1965
—it will be faced with meeting the
interest and providing for the repayment
of the loan funds raised from the banks
and insurance companies.
Repayment may not be completed
until 1978 and, of course, there is always
the possibility that all or part of the
money may be refunded; but, so far as
it is possible to tell at present, funds
ranging from just over £2.1 million in
1967-68 down to £1.9 million in 1971-
72 will need to be generated to meet the
-loan servicing. In other words, the
refinery will need to earn 10 p.c. net
after tax on the total investment of
£2l million (which includes capitalised
interest) just to cover the loan costs.
In attempting to project future profits,
the external analyst is presented with
some problems. Total revenue per gallon
seems to be declining, while net profit
from trading and shipping per gallon is
increasing.
The position with H. C. Sleigh seems
to be similar so far as net trading profit
is concerned (but this figure needs to be
extracted from Sleigh's accounts and
may not be directly comparable) and
revenue per gallon after adjustment for
Hardie Rubber's revenue seems to be
either steady or to have increased slightly.
If we assume that sales of petroleum
products will increase at the rate of 7 p.c.
per annum compound on average and
that the declining trend in revenue per
gallon will continue, it is still possible to
see Ampol's revenue at a level of £52
million in 1968-69. Even if the rising
trend of net trading profit to revenue
ceases and the level stabilises at the
average rate of the last two years, net
trading profit would be of the order of £8
million in 1968-69.
The table below is taken from the
annual reports and shows the percentage
of outgo to sales: —
Year to
Sept. 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
1. Suppliers of —
products 40.51 42.24 41.97 41.93 42.09
2. Government
duty 22.63 23.09 24.20 26.14 27,21
3. Services and
overhead 19.42 16.22 14.88 11.33 9.31
4. Salaries and
wages 6.48 7.18 7.00 7.50 8.00
5. Depreciation 2.22 2.72 3.18 3.79 4.03
6. Income tax 3.08 2.60 2.56 3.08 2.74
7. Dividends 4.11 4.44 4.65 5.56 5.90
8. Retained 1.55 1.51 1.56 0.67 0.72
Total —
5, 6, 7 & 8 10.96 11.27 11.95 13.10 13.39
From thesfe figures it is possible to
project net profit before tax and deprecia-
tion at £7 million in 1968-69, again as-
suming that the upward trend in this per-
centage to sales will cease. Interest on
fixed loans plus staff provident fund con-
tribution, etc., totalled over £1 million in
1962-63.
Providing there are no additional
funds raised by issues of fixed interest
securities, the interest bill will fall by
nearly £500,000 by 1968-69 so there is
every prospect that net profit before tax
and depreciation will be about £7.5 mil-
lion.
figure could be increased by divi-
dends from B. F. Goodrich Australia
Pty Ltd and from Australian Lubricating
Oil Refinery Ltd, particularly the former,
which appears to be doing well.
This figure indicates that Ampol will
probably have the cash to pay the 14 p.c.
dividend commitment of £4.1 million,
but whether earnings will cover the divi-
dend depends largely on the depreciation
provisions and income from investments.
It seems unlikely that the depreciation
provision could be less than £2 million,
leaving £5.5 million before tax, or ap-
proximately £3.3 million after tax. Divi-
dends from investments would need to be
about £1 million to ensure coverage on
this basis.
If all is then going well with the in-
vestments, including the Lytton Refinery,
there is every reason to believe that the
14 p.c. dividend will be maintained. At
this stage, however, it is very difficult to
see any further growth in per share divi-
dends within the next eight years. The
market is not apparently undervaluing
Ampol shares at a price of 11s. to yield
about 6f p.c.
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (E'mlllion)
Year to
Sept. 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 8.3 10.6 13.2 11.9 13.7
Current liabilities 8.6 9.0 10.4 10.5 10.2
Net working , , _ ,
capital (0.3) 1.6 2.8 1.4 3.5
Fixed assets 22.8 28.8 34.7 38.5 42.2
Investment 2.1 2.6 3.0 5.2 5:5
Intangibles 0.3 0.4 0.1 0.3 0.6
Total capital 25.2 33.4 40.6 45.4 51.8
Represented by:—-
Negative working
capital 0.3 — — — —-
Loan capital 6.3 8.9 8.4 9.2 11.9
Minority interests — — — 1-2 1-2
Pref. capital 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0
Convert, notes 1.5 5.6 5.6 5.6 4.1
Ord. capital 10.7 10.8 13.7 15.2 16.7
Def. capital (a) —- — 0.7 0.7 4.5
Reserves 5.4 7.1 11.2 12.5 12.4
(a) Includes is'ue to California Texas Oil Corp.
and calls paid in advance on public issue.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Takeover Fright was Useful
The hidden reserves of Squatting Investment Co. Ltd
fjpHERE is nothing like a takeover fright
to flush out previously hidden re-
serves.
Shareholders of The Squatting Invest-
ment Co. Ltd, Melbourne stock and
station agent and pastoralist, can thank
Marra Development Ltd for doing them
a good deed last September.
Marra offered Squatting shareholders
41s. 6d. cash per 10s. share, when the
market value was approximately 355. 6d.
Directors refused the bid, declaring that
the assets backing per share was more
than 60s. on current values.
As the 1962 annual accounts had
shown a net tangible assets backing of
355. Bd., directors then had to justify
their stand. And in this they have been
favored by the trend of wool prices and
good conditions on all company pro-
perties.
The average gross price per bale (ex-
cluding crutchings) in the year to Decem-
ber 31, 1962, rose from £72 ss. Bd. to
£9O 3s. Id., and the number of bales
produced increased from 1952 to 2180.
Livestock sales produced a surplus of
£59,329 in 1963, compared with £44,731
the year before.
The net profit accordingly rose strongly
from £33,300 to £66,438, after providing
£43,952 for tax and £14,983 for de-
preciation.
The Mortat station in the southern
Wimmera district of Victoria was sold
for £360,998, giving a surplus over cost
of £148,227, excluding plant and live-
stock.
Early this year Squatting bought out
Mount Manara Pastoral Co. Pty Ltd,
which runs a grazing property near Ivan-
hoe (NSW), has 129,938 acres under
lease in perpetuity and 37,319 under lease
expiring in 1971. No price was given for
the purchase.
The other properties owned by Squat-
ting are Terawynia (western NSW),
Quantambone (north-west NSW), Bur-
rongong (Riverina, NSW), and Cullan-
doon (southern Queensland), giving the
company fair geographical spread.
The company has revalued one of the
properties and the resultant surplus, to-
gether with the capital profit on sale of
the Mortat property, will be the basis
for a one-for-one bonus issue, involving
486,675 10s. shares.
(This is the first material capital
change since 1928, so at best the com-
pany has only been an investment for
income.)
The spectacular rise in earning rate
from 13.7 to 27.3 p.c. on the old capital
permitted a doubling of the dividend
from 124 to 25 p.c. in respect of 1963.
The post-bonus dividend rate was not
indicated in the 1963 directors’ report,
but assuming a 124 p.c. rate on the
doubled capital, a purchase ex-bonus
at the present price of 235. 6d. would
yield 5.3 p.c.
This is much more realistic than the
prices ruling for the greater part of the
last three years, but then the investor
cannot be blamed for refusing to pay
more than he can see in a stock.
The company has had an extremely
variable career. Since the war, earnings
have ranged from £279,628 in 1950 to
a deficit of £2184 in 1958, due to seas-
onal conditions, fire hazards, volatile wool
and stock prices, labor problems, rising
costs, resumption of properties for closer
settlement, and sheep mortality.
It is as well to remember that the stock
is largely cyclical, even if now it is free-
wheeling. As an investment it has short-
term appeal to a limited group only—-
those who can recognise wool price
trends and those who gamble on a
merger with one of the pastoral giants.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
December 31 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 170 218 255 274 694
Less current liabilities 63 42 65 75 127
Working capital 107 176 190 199 567
Investments — —-333
Fixed assets 686 683 675 669 569
793 859 868 871 1139
Ordinary capital 243 243 243 243 - 243
Reserves 550 616 625 628 896
793 859 868 871 1139
Bales of greasy
wool produced 2032 1885 2014 1953 2180
Avge. price per bale n/a n/a 74.16.0 /2.5.8 90.3.1
Depreciation 17 17 16 16 15
Taxation 22 13 25 21 44
Net profit 51 21 39 33 66
Dividends 37 18 30 30 61
Surplus 14 3 9 3 5
Earning rate 21.4 8.6 15.9 13.7 27.3
Dividend rate 15 7\ 122 25
Dividend yield (a) 6.3 4.2 7.4 5.8 —
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 11.2 20.8 10.6 16.0 —
High price (b) 41/6 27/3 19/- 23/- 50/-
Low price (b) 39/11 17/9 15/- 16/10 21/-
(a) End of following March, month accounts pre-
sented.
(b) Calendar year.
B. J. BALL LTD
Paper “Unnecessarily” Imported
Tn 1959 import restrictions on paper
were relaxed, thus allowing B. J.
Ball Ltd to reintroduce fine papers from
North America a sizeable proportion
of their business. But the company, as a
major distributor of Australian fine
papers, has been able to more than live
with the April, 1963, increased duties
on all types of Imported papers.
The point was made by the chairman
(Mr W. A. Ball) at the last annual
address that apart from a few types of
paper which are not made here, Austra-
lian mills have the capacity to supply the
Australian market of 98,000 tons of fine
paper a year,* and will be able to handle
normal increases in demand.
At present, substantial tonnages of
paper comparable to local grades are
being imported unnecessarily, said Mr
Ball.
The business of B. J. Ball was founded
by its namesake in 1906. Preference
shares were listed in 1947 and ordinary
shares two years later.
The company operates as a manufac-
turer and wholesale merchant of print-
ing, writing and wrapping paper, twine
and cordage, printing machinery and
printers’ equipment, stationery, account
books and “Collins” diaries.
Its best year was 1951-52, when a pro-
fit of £88,043 was recorded, in the last
year to June 30, profit recovered from
£49,537 to £63,244, about the same
level as in 1960-61.
Earnings gave a little more clearance
for the usual 10 p.c. dividend, but were
hampered the fact that the <£69,500
increase in capital (from the one-for-six
par issue in February, 1963) was not
fully income-producing.
Part of the issue was used to finance
a printing ink venture, Australian Colour
and Printing Ink Manufacturers Pty Ltd,
which makes inks under licence from a
Japanese firm. ACPI will not be in a
position to pay dividends for some time
yet, shareholders were told in the direc-
tors' report for 1962-63.


HELP
LEGACY
all the year
round
Turnover in 1962-63 was at a record
level, and despite keenly competitive
conditions, gross profit rates were main-
tained. Sales in the first quarter of the
current financial year were 10 p.c. ahead
of the previous corresponding period,
thanks to a very large installation of
Smyth automated bookbinding machi-
nery, a rare event in our comparatively
limited market.
The company has, amongst its loan
capital, £lO,OOO in 7+p.c. notes which
confer an option to the holder to con-
vert into ordinary shares at par on
December 31, 1970, and £50,000 in
7 p.c. notes which automatically convert
to ordinary shares at par on January 2,
1968.
Both these note issues participate equ-
ally with ordinary shareholders in any
cash issue during their currency, and in
the event of a bonus or takeover offer,
the notes convert to participate.
A takeover offer was received from
Dalton Bros Holdings Ltd in December,
1960, on a one-for-one basis. As the
Dalton shares are now 11s. lOd. against
B. J. Ball 12s., and Ball shareholders
had the benefit of the recent cash issue,
they should have no real regrets on their
directors’ refusal of the offer.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 1378 1483 1604 1585 1559
Less current
liabilities 847 991 864 867 785
Working capital 531 492 740 718 774
Investments 1 -— — — 15
Fixed assets 406 512 521 529 539
Intangibles — 10 17 17 17
938 1014 1278 1264 1345
Loan capital 137 171 312 295 293
Preference capital 200 200 200 200 200
Ordinary capital 250 250 357 357 427
Reserves 351 393 409 412 425
938 1014 1278 1264 1345
Depreciation 23 18 17 16 24
Taxation 34 31 38 32 48
Net profit 54 64 64 50 63
Net profit for ords 42 52 52 38 51
Dividends 25 25 36 36 39
Surplus 17 27 16 2 12
Earning rate 16.8 21.0 14.5 10.5 13.1
Dividend rate 10 10 10 10 10
Dividend
yield (a) 4.2 5.6 5.4 5.3 5.6
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 14.3 8.6 12.8 18.2 13.7
High price (b) 13/- 15/7J 11/3 10/9 9/9
Low price (b) 9/5 8/6 9/- 8/6 8/-
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
STOTT AND UNDERWOOD LTD
Waiting on a Conversion
YTow that finality has been reached on
the name for Australia’s new deci-
mal currency unit, those companies
associated with the office equipment in-
dustry will find their business booming.
Not many are listed on Australian
Stock Exchanges. One of the longest
listed and one which will stand to bene-
fit from the increased business arising
from the conversion of existing equip-
ment to the new circumstances is Stott
and Underwood Ltd.
Profitability has not been good during
the past three years, yet is currently
showing an improvement.
The company had its beginnings in
Melbourne in 1884. The New South
Wales business began in 1908 and
achieved Stock Exchange listing in 1951
With a placement of 120,000 ss. shares
at 7s. 6d. Issued capital was £90,000, all
] n ordinary shares.
I Only cash share issue since was a one-
'for-two at par in 1955. Shares issued
for a takeover in South Australia in 1960
lifted paid-up capital to the present
£172,000.
In 1959, £70,500 was raised with an
issue of 7i p.c. notes, convertible into
ordinary shares in 1964.
From a near record £25,002 in 1960,
earnings declined rapidly. In 1962 a
deficit of £22,514 occurred, the first
since flotation.
Results were affected by severe price
cutting in the industry because of the
slowing down of business arising from
the credit squeeze.
However, business picked up from the
start of 1962. For the latest period to
June 30, profit was £11,714, equal to
6.7 p.c. on capital. Dividend, which was
reduced from 12i p.c. in 1959 to 10 p.c.
on 1960, 7i p.c. the following year and
passed in 1961-62, was restored to 2i p.c.
Sales during the year were a record,
but competition was still very keen and
business patchy.
During the past year the company
acquired the agency for Kienzle account-
ing machines, made by the largest manu-
facturer of accounting machines in West
Germany. An agency for Simplex time
clocks was not proceeded with.
The latest accounts show the company
to be in a sound position. Current assets
exceed current liabilities by about two
to one. Stock was down from £359,914
to £328,651, while debtors were up by a
similar amount from £157,796 to
£176,444.
Liquidity improved with the reduction
of term deposits from £55,000 to
£31,000. Overdraft came down from
£98,161 to £91,070.
The reserve position is strong with
capital reserves of £120,263 and surplus
profit of £31,368 giving a good backing
to capital. Net backing of each 5s. share
is 9s. 6d.
The shares are currently selling around
5s. 3d. to show a dividend yield of 4.7
p.c. and an earnings yield of 6.3 p.c.
The notes are selling around 4s. 9d. to
show a yield of 7.9 p.c.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 352 454 468 523 509
Less current
liabilities 186 230 201 278 259
Working capital 166 224 267 245 250
Fixed assets 216 241 177 189 188
Intangible — 13 — — —
382 478 444 434 438
represented by
Capital 135 172 172 172 172
Capital reserves 85 87 105 120 120
Other reserves 84 80 48 25 31
Mortgage 78 69 48 46 44
Notes — 70 71 71 71
382 478 444 434 438
Depreciation 8 8 10 10 10
Taxation 11 2 5 — —
Net profit 24 12 4 dr23 12
Dividend 17 16 13 — 4
Surplus 7 — — — 8
Dividend p.c. 12J 10 7| — 1\
Earnings p.c. 17.7 7.8 2.3 — 6.7
Dividend yield (a) 7.0 7.7 7.8 — 2.8
High price (b) 9/3 8/9 7/6 5/- 4/11
Low price (b) 6/3 6/3 4/- 3/- 2/11J
(a) End of September month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.


LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
LANCE GRAHAM
Member ot the Sydney Stock Exchange
56 HUNTER STREET
SYDNEY
Telephone: 28-5721
Telegrams: Lagram Sydney
McKinley wilson & co.
AJAX HOUSE, 105 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE.
J. GORDON M. MOFFAT!
CHRISTOPHER R. HOWLET7
LAWRENCE G VINEY
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
OF MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE: 67-8701 67-8044 (14 lines)
ORD, MINNETT, T. J. THOMPSON
& PARTNERS
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
13-15 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONE 255711 TELEX 20243
CABLES & TELEGRAMS “ORDERLEY"'’'
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. CANBERRA. BRISBANE
OM3I
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. TV. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members o) Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(1 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH:
2 Denham Street Phone: 6089
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: CECIL PERCIVAL HARRISON late Of 40
Plateau Road, Springwood. TAKE NOTICE
that Petition Number 2050 of 1961 filed by
BARBARA JOCELYN HARRISON has been
amended by Order dated the Thirteenth day
of March, 1964. If you wish to defend the
amended Petition, you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
fifteenth day of May, 1964, and obtain a copy
of the amended Petition without charge from
EDMUND C. LECKY, Solicitor, of 15 Bligh
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS. Registrar.
ADMINISTRATOR.
The Outward Bound School on the Hawkesbury
River requires a resident Administrator.
Responsibilities include management of P ef ‘
sonnel, supervision of maintenance work, stores
and cost control and general administration.
Qualifications include elementary knowledge of
book-keeping, a sound knowledge of mechanics
water craft, their handling and maintenance.
Organisational ability essential.
Married quarters not available.
Salary—up to £1,500 annually plus keep
accommodation.
Apply to the EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, AUS-
TRALIAN OUTWARD BOUND MEMORIAL FOUN-
DATION, Box 4213, G.P.0., Sydney, with complete
details.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Some Good Second-Liners
Avoiding the temptation of quick bargains
T ast week’s break could have provided
me with an excellent opportunity of
telling you about bargain purchases. But
I am determined not to let temptation
get the better of me. So this week it
was a couple of the better second-line
stocks that made their debut into the
portfolio.
The first purchase was 1000 Conquip
at 9s. 6d. Although only a small com-
pany with a capital of £200,000, it seems
to have steered profits and dividends
into a very positive upward trend in the
last three years.
Only just above Conquip in the Stock
Exchange lists is Chemical Materials. A
quite extraordinary company in so far
as the shareholders have not only
received a bonus issue (as is normally
understood) in 1958, and a split (a most
suggestive word), but also generous issues
of H. C. Sleigh shares in 1955 and
1959!
Chemical Materials still had H. C.
Sleigh shares and notes to the value of
just under £90,000 in the 1963 balance
sheet. However, in its present form, the
main business of the company is the
production and distribution of a wide
range of chemicals.
This it does through the parent and
a number of subsidiaries. These latter
include Alex Minter and Co. Pty Ltd,
(chemicals used in water purification and
also plasticides), Decol Detergents Pty
Ltd (detergents) and, of course, the long-
remembered Maclac Products Pty Ltd
(paints, fats, and resins).
The last-mentioned was taken over
in 1961 and what appeared to be a
good buy on the surface then managed
to turn in a £25,000 loss. That didn't
go down too well with the sensitive
investor. The share market had just
recovered from this blow when it was
upset again by the sudden resignation
of Mr J. C. Sanford, the managing
director.
To prove the stock market wrong,
the company increased profits by 50 p.c.
in 1962 and by 50 p.c. again in 1963.
Even though directors talk about a
“significantly better” result for the current
year, it would be over-optimistic to
expect the 1963 earning rate of 26 p.c.
to rise by what is becoming the tradi-
tional 50 p.c.
Whatever it is, the results should be
good enough to get the shares over
20s. I bought 400.
Some of you may have suffered with
me when I had to take a loss on those
International Footwear shares. From
10s. 6d. they made their way down to
9s., only to bounce back on the Thursday
to 10s. 6d. With the disappointing interim
report still fairly clear in my memory,
the reaction seemed a good chance to
recover the loss. Shorting 1000 of these
shares at 10s. 6d. did not therefore seem
too dangerous.
Selling this week saw one of those
inevitable losses with Automobile and
General Finance. The company brought
out a good interim report but the
directors forgot to make the bonus issue,
So, alas, the shares fell a few pence
under the purchase price.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
500 Automobile & General
Finance, 25/6 £648
1000 International Footwear, 10/6 £512
BOUGHT
1000 Conquip, 9/6 £487
400 Chemical Materials, 18/9 £383
A couple of dividends, including Ansett
and Eric White, have come in but they
don't offset the week’s paper loss in the
portfolio.
The portfolio now' is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
2500 Hammex 23/5/62 10/4 15/-
1000- Aeron 14/8/63 7/9 5/6
1000 ODE 29/10/63 5/6 6/4
1000 Mobile Equip. 30/10/63 8/4 9,3
400 Malleys 12/11/63 27/3 33/-
1000 Ansett 2/12/63 7/7 91-
500 O'Donnell Griffin 23/12/63 19/6 20/3
400 Pioneer Concrete 9/1/64 17/6 17/3
1000 Palgrave 16/1/64 2/6 2/4
1000 Eric White 29/1/64 15/6 16/9
400 Waugh & Josephson 12/2/64 20/3 19/3
2000 Mid Eastern 12/2/64 1/7 l/<
800 Conkeys 13/2/64 15/3 16/9
*,400 Mt Isa 26/2/64 43/- 45/6
500 Kelvinator 5/3/64 22/6 23/-
400 Tableland 12/3/64 36/6 34/6
500 Aust. Chemical 19/3/64 19/6 19/9
500 Besser V. (Q'ld) 19/3/64 9/- 9/3
500 General Ind. 24/3/64 10/6 10/6
1000 Conquip 2/4/64 9/6 9’6
400 Chem. Materials 9/4/64 18/9 18/9
1000 Int. Footwear (short) 9/4/64 10/6 10/6


_>
V- ®
1 Ol
H : !
mm ■
MiJ
:
m
PLACE: SYDNEY
TIME: 6.30 MONDAY
PLACE: MELBOURNE
TIME: 6.30 MONDAY
New network link covers Vz of
Australian viewing audience
GTV-9 and TCN-9 combine to bring Sydney and
Melbourne viewers interstate programmes . . .
LIVE AS THEY HAPPEN!
It’s an exciting new era in Australian television
provided by the coaxial cable link between these
two cities.
Over 1 million television homes throughout N.S.W.
and Victoria will receive regular daily telecasts
from interstate.
It’s another first from Television City.
9


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Squabble Over Tractor Testing
8000 casualties a year point up dangers
HTractors, according to Mr F. Baillie,
who is Melbourne University’s
tractor testing officer, are “as dangerous
as the farm bull”.
This may be unfair to bulls in
general. It is, of course, as generalised
as the statement that the motor car is
“a lethal weapon” another favorite
of writers commenting on the road toll.
Mr Baillie claims that
& Tractor brakes are weak and un-
suitable for road use; the steering is too
direct, making tractors difficult to
handle.
• Suspension is inadequate to pre-
vent physical damage to drivers. Doc-
tors and engineers should combine on
this problem.
9 Vibration has the effect of making
drivers “feel sick”. Noise and exhaust
fumes cause nausea.
• Plough-shaped seats are danger-
ous as drivers are bounced into the air-
and sit down heavily on the rim. Bench
type seats are much safer.
Before analysing Mr Baillie’s points
it is worthwhile establishing the reason
why Melbourne University has a tractor
testing officer not many seats of
learning do.
Mr Baillie runs the tractor testing
station at Werribee (Vic.) which is
administered by Melbourne University
with the lecturer in agricultural engi-
neering, Mr Gilbert Vasey, in overall
charge.
TThe funds for the station, running to
some £BOOO a year, are provided by
the Australian Agricultural Council
which represents the agriculture de-
partments of the States plus the Federal
Department of Primary Industry.
The future of the station, which has
tested only 14 tractors of five different
makes in the last 10 years, is yet to be
decided by the Agricultural Council.
A deadlock exists between the sta-
tion, which wants to test on a random
sample basis, and the manufacturers
who want a “selected best” system.
One of the things the Agricultural
Council is considering is a suggestion by
the Graziers’ Assn of Victoria that an
extra £4OOO be provided a year so that
the station can buy any tractor it wants,
test it, and then sell it off. This would
leave the manufacturers out of the pic-
ture completely as then they would not
be asked to provide a “random” or a
“selected best” machine.
Naturally enough some of the other
States are not as keen on this idea as
Victoria, in which the station is located.
The deadlock has been in existence
for some time. One manufacturer a
few years ago broke away from the
majority and provided “random”
machines for testing, but got such ad-
verse reports from the testing station
that he smartly withdrew and is now one
of the most “anti” of all the manufac-
turers.
There is no doubt that tests are valu-
able in their particular sphere. But
many farmers who support the idea of
testing have complained that the reports
are so technical that they cannot under-
stand them.
There is also no doubt that tractors
can be dangerous. Figures show that
there were nearly 100 deaths and 8000
injuries in Australia last year.
What the figures and tests for
that matter do not show is the
reason for these accidents. How much
is attributable to design and how much
to misuse or foolishness? A survey to
establish these points would be infor-
mative.
Nearly everyone who drives a tractor
can think, if he tries, of things that he
has done that he should not have done.
Misuse is a big factor in tractor acci-
dents. Many farmers treat their
machines with little or no regard for
manufacturers’ recommendations.
‘‘Drive her till she drops” is a frequent
piece of advice on. how to get the most
economic return from a tractor. “Re-
pairs are costly. When the tractor packs
up, trade it in on a new one.”
licensing of tractor-drivers, an idea
supported by Mr Baillie, will not
overcome this factor. But another ot
the suggestions supported by him -
namely, that children be prevented by
law from driving or being carried on
tractors seems most worthwhile
although, once again, enforcing it would
have its problems.
It is no uncommon sight to see lads
of 11 and 12 driving huge combines
during harvest season. Most country
boys who cannot drive a tractor by the
time they are 12 are probably misfits.
The dangers are obvious. Parents
should think carefully.
It is very difficult to get any of the
tractor manufacturers to buy into the
argument. Mostly they refer to the
standard statement by their organisation,
the Tractor, Farm Machinery and Con-
struction Equipment Traders’ Assn of
Australia, that “manufacturers have
spent many thousands of pounds on per-
fecting designs and have studied prob-
lems in great detail before machines
leave the drawing board.”
Therefore, it is encouraging to find
a spokesman for Massey - Ferguson -
the biggest seller in Australia sup-
porting the idea of licences for tractor-
drivers. The spokesman, Mr S. W. D
Baxter, says that this would possibly
limit the number of accidents.
He says that accidents usually happen
either to very young or very old drivers.
The youngsters drive to fast and the
elderly may not be mechanically-minded j
and unfamiliar with the working of 2
tractor.
The Victorian Government is drafting
legislation to reduce tractor accidents.
It is expected to cover safety angles
or at least attempt to. It is believed
it would be unlikely to recommend
licences, however.
A point which gets little publicity 15
the fact that tractors can be bought, or
fitted, with more safety devices than
normal, but at a price. The same thing
applies to motor cars. As sales m
crease, so many of these devices becon
cheaper and are incorporated in
popular-priced models.
To assert that manufacturers ought
Safety Devices
The Queensland Cane Growers’
Council has adopted the following
resolution:—“That in view of the
increasing tractor fatalities on
cane farms, tractor manufacturers
be approached and strong efforts
made to have all farm tractors
properly equipped with needed
safety devices and to ensure that
efficient brakes be installed to
withstand tropical conditions be-
fore tractors are placed on market
for sale to primary producers.”


provide all these things at no extra cost
now is hardly realistic.
On the performance testing of tractors
at Werribee related to safety the
most persuasive argument against the
continuation of the station does not
come from manufacturers.
One might expect them to naturally
oppose a semi-government body which
in its reports—regardless of how care-
fully these reports avoid the subject of
worth in relation to price inevitably
must favor one make against another.
A number of farmers have made the
point that the tests do not go far
enough. They revolve largely around
rated horsepower, and horsepower is
often a not over important factor to the
farmer. What he wants to know is how
the machine will stand up to continued
. , L
use. An extra good rating in horse-
power might be accompanied by weak
earmgs, e c.. w ic wi imit t e
machines usefu life.
If the station is to be continued, it is
hoped that it will be permitted to in-
vestigate all these related matters inclu-
ding the one of safety.
The Australian Agricultural Council
has put off a decision on the future of
tractor testing at Werribee pending a
conference with manufacturers and the
National Farmers’ Union. A likely
development is that there will be moves
to have farmer representatives on the
committee running the Tractor Testing
Station.
right as far as it goes, but
unfortunately many farmers regard the
National Farmers Union as an embryo
wbicb ’ as yet, does not truly reflect
farming opinion.
Some time ago the NFU did suggest
that there should be a “realistic” ap-
proach to the manufacturers’ “selected
best” principle. Melbourne University
refused to go along with the suggestion,
Either the Testing Station tested trac-
tors picke d at random or it was not
interested in testing any.
f m ... , ,
Some farm organisations supported
the University
The University might also regard the
jjec 0 f farmers’ representatives having
• , .
a say in what goes on at Werribee as a
kind of vote of no confidence,
All things considered, the future of
the station is still an even-money bet.
Safety may have to be pursued without
the undoubted assistance the station
could give.
The APPU and Wool Control
Getting the thin end of the stick
Australian Primary Producers’
Union has taken exception to the
tact that it was not mentioned in a
resume of the Wool Marketing Report
in The Bulletin on April 4.
The charge is that to write in terms
of only two major wool bodies and
leaving out the APPU is like talking
ab °ut defence in terms of the Army
and Air Force only.
The whole point is that although it
1S v igoronsly seeking to be a member,
tie APPU is not a member of the
001 industry Conference which is
realiy the supreme wool body. It has
0 ged an application for membership
and the Wool Industry Conference has
set up a sub-committee to consider the
application. But until it gives a decision
le Y in June) the APPU must surely
e relegated to the position of a minor
wool body.
To be quite impartial, the APPU does
sfT t° the thin end of the
t i IC 'd ls also denied membership of
wh' r , econst ‘ tute d Australian Meat Board
thp lC \r be an outcome probably of
Cn . , eat In< d ust ry Bill currently being
considered in Canberra.
| Wer e meat exporters, who for long
e enied membership, get a voice
under the new plans. This is good.
Why the APPU is on the outer is not
easy to understand.
It claims and no one has denied
it that its members produce at least
one-fifth of all the beef and one-third
of the fat lambs in Australia.
What possibly is held against the
APPU is the matter of duplicate mem-
berships. A good many of its members
also may belong to the State equivalents
of the “big two”.
Also (in Victoria, anyway) its poli-
cies follow very closely those of the
Wheat and Woolgrowers’ Assn, and in
NSW the United Farmers.
What one can stress, and continue to
stress, is that overall farm unity is some-
thing of which the Australian farmer is
much in need. It seems pretty clear
that if he does not institute that unity
himself then the Government, whether
Liberal or Labor, will do it for him.
The much vaunted independence of
the Australian farmer appears to be
putting up little resistance to Govern-
ment takeover. The Federal Govern-
ment is well and truly in the wool busi-
ness now with taxpayers’ money being
provided for promotion, and it will
fairly soon be in the meat business with
the Meat Industries Bill giving the new
Australian Meat Board powers in mar-
keting which it did not have before.
It is remarkable, really, that this pro-
posed entry into marketing has not
brought a storm of protest. The bill
provides for levies on producers by
means of slaughter taxes. The amount
of the levies will be for the new Meat
Board to decide. There is no provision
for limitation.
It has been suggested that they will be
in the vicinity of ss. a head on cattle
and 6d. a head on sheep. This would
provide about £lf million for promo-
tion and market research.
The marketing powers to be given
under the legislation would permit the
Board to trade for purposes of market
development, and also to administer
within Australia any international meat
marketing scheme which may emerge
from the “Kennedy Round” talks in
Geneva.
The history of government entry into
meat marketing has not been very en-
couraging in other countries. In New
Zealand the government marketing
authority lost £BOO,OOO in trying to de-
velop a market for lamb in the US.
One or two excursions of this nature
would soon eat up the money collected
by the slaughter levies.
As the history of the wool promotion
levy should show, these things have a
habit of growing as they go along.
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
Not a Government
Appointee
Dear Sir,
In the article “ ‘Big Bill’ Gunn Again
Wins a Wool Battle” (4/4/64) I am
referred to as a Federal Government
appointee. This is no so; nor does the
Federal Government in any way control
the constitution or activities of the Wool
Industry Conference, although its im-
portant role in relation to the Wool
Board is recognised in the Wool Indus-
try Act.
I am the initial chairman of the Con-
ference by invitation of the two member
bodies the Australian Woolgrowers
and Graziers’ Council and the Austra-
lian Wool and Meat Producers’ Federa-
tion. Thereafter, the constitution pro-
vides for election by the Conference of
its chairman at the annual meetings of
that body. The chairman cannot be
chosen from the membership of the two
bodies but is in no way the nominee
or creature of the Federal Government.
J. G. CRAWFORD
Chairman, Australian Wool
Industry Conference.
Melbourne (Vic.).


Why people like
and buy the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
*N.Z. Subscription to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited.
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36 N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick y/ whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? j~~j or
A renewal subscription? j~~j
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
months subscription to THE BULLETIN.
*New Zealand readers may have their copies air
freighted (£4 4s. N.Z. for 52 issues, £2 12s. for
26 issues or by surface mail (£3 7s. N.Z. for
52 issues, £2 2s. for 26 issues).
BULLETIN
THE BULLETIN has been a famous name in Australia
since 1880 the year if was established. In its 82
years of continuous weekly publication it has seen
many changes. Two years ago it got a new cover
and a new look. As a result more and more people
are buying THE BULLETIN for its features, its overseas
and local news, its regular contributors and its reviews
of films, books, music and theatre. Why don't you
maVe sure of YOUR copy of THE BULLETIN by ordering
it each week? THE BULLETIN is a must.
The
Bulletin
A magazine of facts and ideas est. 1880
ON SALE WEDNESDAYS —2/-
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 792
ACROSS
I—Prince Gordon’s confused when writing a letter.
(13)
9—lt’s most prominent to abolish prestige. (11)
10— A vessel stick is back. (3)
11— A change for the low hooter. (3)
12— One managed an Irish isle. (4)
13— Affix to a parti-colored horse. (5)
17— Idyllic 18-across found in 12-across. (8)
18— I am brought to heel by a Turkish magistrate. (4)
20— Used to be Clara Bow’s sex
appeal, so go off! (4)
21— Drone ridicules little mounds.
(8)
23 Revolutions backing acts
with scissors. (5)
24 King George is first seen in
an expression of amusement.
'(4)
25 China drops in suitable con-
tents for a teacup. (3)
28—What poisons as a matter of
course. (3)
30— Activity at the rodeo des-
cription of 6-down? (5, 6)
31— Access for the employees
causes charm to stick. (5, 8)
DOWN
1— Confectionery for a school,
etc. (10)
2 Tore Italian (anagram). (II)
3 It’s a way in charm. (8)
4 Bigshot to criticise the new
Year tom-tom. (10) X
5 It’s North America if in-
genuous. (4)
6 Bergman is riding impro-
perly. (6)
7 Standing timber glue. (3)
8— Slump over a tale of epic
proportions. (4)
14— A carton isn’t included in
this deal. (11)
15— Auto-saleyard having some
layer area of Wales. (10)
16— 90 degrees in this to fit out
the profile of a bed muddle.
(5, 5)
19—Scrutinise a terrace level if
not so plentiful. (8)
22—Greek city which must be
given a role in South Austra-
lia. (6)
26—Pop nothing in the panelling.
(4)
29—Namby-pamby upset father’s
step. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 791


The proof of the pudding.
is in this kitchen
:
m
m
-■ >
m
KTHERE-EYERY
WOMENS
WEEKLY RECJPE
| i
JwWWwwMC'XvX-X'.w
m mm m
mi
AND
tried
IS
BEFORE
TESTED
PASSED
ITS
WMm-
r
YOU
ONTO
7 7 i-sf '•:>,
THIS IS THE LEILA HOWARD TEST
KITCHEN THE SECRET BEHIND
THE SUCCESS RECIPES IN THE
AUSTRALIAN WOMEN’S WEEKLY
W< r 'V tS' >
py. wee
'■m'-'&xzF'V&y.
4i3*SKBii
*
IS
es
fttprSr recipes
family recipes
lorie diet - recipes
readers' recipes
in Australia's greatest national magazine.
9.
with
r~
LY
W


nia
flil
.
Six-
••••• ■
:
MMH&I
~ a*
; r-
-.';
7
a
C'S
n
Mppsl:»c ; 3 fs*«Sss:??S c Y^: ;i«
1 \ak' : '
1 fl
i m
MfeJt %
S\
¥Mmm
Sfefaw •-•-: -fr .
f> \l
iif I -
' ‘i.-.ii
-;p.” ;
?■ tf-4-f wMh Ii
E
i,S»»
•:v
■■':.
: i
mam
!
W.V
aer
-
Wm.
>■ v\
!*> ' ■-- ■ ■■
\fi
-
RfTv'- ' V-
SSESshBIK
9Rfet*
?’,k : - i- •'>’
I s ';
, «,. -ft .3 -V.v
5?- ? :
-
i
/■'•: '*lh
It’s the car everyone hoped would happen
The miraculous BMC Morris 1100 price £96
(incl. sales tax) Prices slightly higher in some country are^
MANUFACTURERS IN AUSTRALIA OF BMC AUSTIN FREEWAY SIX, BMC WOLSELEY 24/80, BMC MORRIS 850, BMC AUSTIN HEALEY SPRITE AND BMC
BMC
