

The Bulletin
W JL Jf 9 1 V w
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
JAPAN AND AUSTRALIA
Twenty Years After
Japanese War Cemetery. Cowra. N.S.W.


l
.# m
& m
F §
Geon
7&tfouu/£ t /t(dfoua&
makes!
a call to
PERTH
Geon vinyl resins are used by Olympic Cables
in manufacture of coaxial and telephone cables
to specifications of the P.M.G.
Sheathing based on Geon vinyl resin is used in the coaxial communication cables already
laid from Bunbury to Perth, the same type cable that soon can make inter-city telecasts
possible. Here is resistance to weathering and heat, electrical and mechanical
protection in a single homogeneous covering. In manifold electrical installations, Geon
means no more humidity or ageing problems, no more corrosion, provides brightly-
coloured identification coding. In industry, Geon improves products or evoives new
ones. Have you a product we can help improve or develop?
B. F. Goodrich-C.S.R. Chemicals Fty. Ltd.
Kororoit Creek Road, Altona, Melbourne. Telephone 65-8221 or 2. Kalamazoo House, 182-186 Blues Point Road,
North Sydney, N.S.W. Telephone 92-6319. GEON Agencies in W.A., S.A. and Q'ld. Harrisons & Crosfield (A.N.Z.) LIMITED
M 5525


how do you move this and keep it working?
a ' gm n i «fiaiiii;a4
■
im
3- v ■ '/■' v v
. 3 : :
if:;'
Mr m *'
mm
i
:
m i
\>f<WsC'
-; / ■:, ■ ■ : ;< < '
- S
'': ■ ¥
, ' ■ '
• » •,.Tw
sif
m
M
m . i
use this.
A Grace Bros, expert is only a
phone call away to move any sized
office quickly, economically, effi-
ciently. □ Guarantee to have the
office back in operation on sched-
ule □ Offer you a foolproof cata-
loguing system which prevents
confusion and mix-ups □ Have
Australia’s biggest office removal
equipment pool □ Also specialise
in executive, government depart-
ment and consular moves □ Cus-
toms and forwarding services
□ World-wide removals. Grace
Bros, will safely store inactive files
and records, allowing immediate
access at anytime. Grace Bros,
are geared to give
you the most rea-
sonable quote.
GRACE BROS
REMOVALS
ACROSS THE STREET . ACROSS THE WORLD
Gi
Sydney 2-0946 □ Melbourne 48-7316 □ Brisbane 5-4631 □ Adelaide 51-1316
Perth 24-5137 □ Canberra 9-0234 □ Hobart 34-3988 □ Newcastle 2-4302
Townsville 6091 □ Lismore 2265 □ Murwillumbah 133 □ Queanbeyan 737
GR63
The Bulletin
Established 1880
AUG. 7, 1965.
VOL. 87, No. 4458
JAPAN: THE NEW RISING
SUN
Twenty years after 37
AFTER MENZIES, WHO?
Some smell trouble 23
HOW TO TEACH-IN
The American story 39
JACK LANG ON THE
NEW GUARD
“Would that mine enemy would
write a book” 54
HOLLYWOOD DIARY
World of mindless blockbusters .... 29
TANNER 12 LETTERS .... 45
BATMAN 25
ROSS CAMPBELL 28
THIS AUSTRALIA
ALP: Whitlam’s week 14
Waterfront: On the high tide 15
Dr K's shadow 17
The interrogators 21
OVERSEAS
VIETNA M: President Johnson's
options 34
MALAYSIA: Lee v. Kuala Lumpur 34
BRITAIN: Heath the musician .... 39
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
Geoffrey Parsons at the piano 46
The turn of the TV screws 47
I FILMS: My Fair Lady 48
OPERA: Sutherland as “Oedipussy” 48
MUSIC: Dean Dixon’s stewardship 50
THEATRE: Something Unspoken .. 52
BOOKS: A Green Tree in Gedde .... 56
Salvage 57
BUSINESS & FINANCE
Japans miracle economy 59
Perspectives on company losses .... 65
Speculator’s Diary 77
man on the land
Signs of former unity 79
Editorial Office: 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
® ox 4088. Telephone: 2 0666.
> Box S !innfl C ° st,erea 9 h Street, Sydney.
Bo * 4083. Telephone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


@ll I wonder what it’s like to be a salesman? 99
mm
m*
In a nutshell, Davey ... it is stimulating, frus-
trating, rewarding, depressing, inspiring, wearying.
It is achievement. It is failure. It is everything or
nothing ... a lot depends on the company the
salesman works for.
This company should be progressive, forever search-
ing for ways to improve its products. One that
shares its success with its staff; is proud of every-
thing that bears the company’s name; stands right
behind the salesman and gives him every encour-
agement. It supports him in the big things and the
small. For instance, take Advertising:
Advertising, Davey, informs the customer about
the Company and its products even before the
salesman makes his ca 11... establishes a feeling of
quality, value, reputation, and continues to do so
until his next call. Makes it easier for him to sell.
Good Advertising keeps the customer thinking well
of the Company and its salesman.
Imagine, Davey, trying to produce Advertising
without paper. It would be impossible. Paper is the
world's most significant form of communication.
It reflects a company’s character, its tone and
its personality.
As producers of fine papers of outstanding quality,
we have contributed to the building of company
reputations of the type you should look for . . .
so go ahead Davey. Be a salesman. A great one
. . . and help us make your company just as great.
Wiggins Teape Australia Pty Ltd
* Incorporating **
w
SHOALHAVEN PAPER MILL SALES PTY. LTD.
WIGGINS TEAPE AUSTRALIA GROUP
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
• BRISBANE • PERTH


• •
Just when you needed your car
Did the boss Commandeer it?
Did the wife borrow it?
Did the underworld steal it?
Did the starter refuse to start it?
Did you have a mishap and
mishape it?
W
%fS*f 1 •
>T4MMa
- sass
r.m
mr.
w s>
A.F366
yy%
Ring Avis
Rent-a-Car.
They will
provide you
with a new
Ford Falcon!
Sooner or later it will happen. You’re all set to go . . . and you’ve nothing to
go in. What to do? Call, write, or visit Avis Rent-a-Car. Before you
can say “quickasaflash”, you’re on your way in a sleek, solid Avis Falcon.
(Great!) An Avis Falcon always comes in peak condition .. . clean, shining,
and with a full gas tank. It’s yours for as long as you like ... a day?
Two days? A week? And no matter how long—or how short —both
you and the car are protected by proper insurance. Repeat—proper insurance.
Another point: Should you find yourself without a car, far, far from home—
Avis are in 107 places at once. Stations in all capitals and most
major cities and towns throughout Australia. So next time
you’re caught without a car . . . call on Avis.
For a day 9 a week, or all the time .
AVIS
RENTA CAR


rr^-r-
-r-y
y
\ v
Vi i
What makes Matson the
First Choice of Discriminating
Travellers to America?
2he answer: No other ships are exclusively First Class. It is reflected in our personalized services. The
anticipation of your every wish is a precept and our staff is trained to think in terms of your individual
tastes. Tfjfatson’s elegance has a special, American quality. The S.S. MARIPOSA and MONTEREY
accommodate just enough guests to favour easy companionship, yet retain space for privacy. Shipboard
appointments are unobtrusively luxurious. Public rooms embody the artistry of prominent designers. The
aura of South Seas openness is especially appealing. These liners completely air-conditioned and gyro-
stabilised are especially' designed for this tropic route. each with private facilities are
unusually spacious. Tastefully furnished and decorated, they provide charming, gracious living. Cuisine is
lavish, epicurean. Meals are interspersed with snacks and buffets. Room service is available at any hour.
The liners’ wine cellars are tended as carefully as any on shore. A s unique as Matson’s ships are the
enchanting ports of call: Noumea, Suva, Niuafo’ou (Tin Can Island), Pago Pago, Honolulu (almost two full
days here: a paiadise for fun-lover, sight-seer or ardent shopper) and San Francisco. Return departure can
be made from either San Francisco or Los Angeles, then via Bora Bora, Tahiti and Rarotonga to Auckland
and Sydney. A Matson voyage, featuring American service, cuisine and exquisite comforts, is designed and
pi iced to please demanding travellers accustomed to the finest. Isn’t it time for you to enjoy this
incomparable experience? Be sure to book early. See your travel agent soon, or contact us. 50 Young
Street, Sydney, Phone 27 4272; 454 Collins Street, Melbourne, Phone 67 7237.
In Australia Matson serves as general passenger agent for three major American steamship lines; Moore-McCormack, American Export-
bbrandtsen and United States Lines,
/M&l-
-*F368»


This 62-foot crayfishing boat
was launched five years ago
Salt-water corrosion hasn't touched it
It's another achievement in Australuco Aluminium
Western Australia’s crayfishing indus-
try depends for its profitability on the
full utilisation of its equipment during
the fishing season and freedom from
maintenance in any season. Its boats
need to be free from corrosion. That's
why Engineer and Marine Services
Pty. Ltd. used high-strength aluminium
marine alloys in building the “Lady of
Fatima" for De Sousa & Company.
Of all-welded aluminium construc-
tion, “Lady of Fatima” has been
champion boat on both fish and cray-
fish every year since 1959. The boat is
a self-contained unit and crayfish and
prawns are caught, processed, flash-
frozen and packaged on board. Alu-
minium ensures essential cleanliness,
because there’s no rust to stain goods
or equipment. Draught is reduced and
docking is easier. Maintenance costs
are slashed.
Of course, there’s more to achieve-
ment than aluminium alone. Achieve-
ment also means Australuco's years of
experience in research, testing, design
and improved alloys . . . years of prac-
tical application which can be summed
up in two words: know-how. So, when
you add technical skill and expertise
to aluminium's inherent qualities,
achievement is the natural result.
Australuco's engineers and techni-
cians, backed by the world - wide
experience and knowledge of the
Alcan Group, are able to supply the
latest information about the many
applications of aluminium in all phases
of Australian industry.
AA327A*
AUSTRALUCO
rvi i i\j i i_j rvi
Australian Aluminium Company Limited
Sydney 637-0133 Melbourne 94-0557 Brisbane 2-7483 Adelaide 51-1516 Perth 23-0211 Hobart 2-2711
J A member of the Alcan Group—A participant in the Queensland Alumina Project


Vv.--
m
.
m
M&mmm
NCR
mm
Ktionwiswa
k «Mftlli
.
wwwmm
3K&3
wmmm
-i
;<■
•4
>9m > -
', " x , v „ r
IT-
It figures!
NCR + CESSNA = BETTER BUSINESS!
Take a firm as efficient and progressive as the
National Cash Register Company. Add a Cessna
aircraft. Total very good business indeed!
NCR wanted to give their clients in South West
Queensland the same prompt, frequent and com-
prehensive service available to their metropolitan
clients. But the vast distances involved made this
impossible. Covering the huge area by cars would
be uneconomic and impracticable.
NCR figured that a Cessna was exactly the answer.
Today one technician, flying a Cessna 172, is giving
prompt on-the-spot service to clients scattered over
a territory of 140,000 square miles.
While NCR’s Cessna is primarily intended to pro-
vide servicing facilities, other benefits accrue.
Travelling expenses are drastically cut. NCR’s
reputation for service is even further enhanced. And
because they can offer such service, the entire
range of NCR machines can now be made available
to clients.
Cessna figures prominently in the success of many
Australian companies probably some of your
competitors! Find out exactly what your company
could save with a Cessna. First step is to have an
obligation-free talk with your Cessna dealer.
Cessna Dealers:
AIRLEANDA, Port Moresby, T.N.G. • BARRIER AIR TAXIS PTY. LTD., Broken Hill, N.S.W. • CAMP-
BELL AIRCRAFT SALES PTY. LTD., Maitland & Mudgee, N.S.W. • GOSS-AIR TAXIS PTY. LTD.,
Cunnamulla, Qld. • PENTECOST AVIATION, Noumea, New Caledonia • MASLING AVIATION PTY.
LTD., Cootamundra, Bourke, Coonamble & Wagga, N.S.W. • REX AVIATION (OLD) PTY. LTD.,
Brisbane & Charleville, Qld. • REX AVIATION SALES (NSW) PTY. LTD., Sydney • ROSS AVIATION
PTY. LTD., Adelaide, S.A. • SCHUTT AIRCRAFT PTY. LTD., Melbourne & Geelong, Vic. • SIMPSON
AVIATION PTY. LTD., Perth, W.A.
R6l


National Notebook
The Secrets of Sarawak
'T'he best candidates for early ulcers
in the Army just now would be the
Public Relations officers. Realising per-
haps better than most, that they are
dealing with a public that wants to
know more than ever just exactly what
the Army is doing, they tread the in-
stitutional tightrope senior officers and
the politicians at one end, the public and
the Press at the other. It is almost a
cliche nowadays among the Army PROs
that with soldiers in “operations of war”
any detail, however insignificant it might
seem at the time, has a way of becoming
vital. And so there are problems, par-
ticularly overseas.
Until the Army can improve its public
relations—and it employs ex-Pressmen
perfectly capable of handling these
situations if they were not hamstrung
from the top it can only expect a bad
Press. Denied official information, cor-
respondents will continue to obtain in-
formation where they can, some of which
is bound to be wrong. What is needed
is a system of confidential briefings for
regular correspondents, and a revised
attitude towards the obtaining of feature
material both on film and in print.
One of our men in Sarawak, yet to
be expelled, writes:
The men of the Third Royal Australian
Regiment stationed at Bau endeared
themselves to the local people during
their four-month tour in Sarawak. They
undertook community projects, such as
building a football field and improving
a water supply, in addition to patrolling
their difficult border sector on the look-
out for Indonesian invaders. They did
not, however, endear themselves to the
local or overseas Press, who look for-
ward to better relations with the in-
coming Ghurka regiment. Admittedly an
army’s job is to fight. But in the opinion
of correspondents here, the Australians
displayed an excess of caution with
regard to security. Whether Lieut-Col.
R A. McDonald, the CO, was carrying
out explicit orders, or whether he just
felt that “no news was good news” is a
moot point.
The British Army regularly gives con-
fidential briefings to journalists during
which the reasons for suppressing certain
information are made perfectly clear.
Thus armed, the journalist can avoid
security dangers, and be his own censor.
British regiments in Sarawak and else-
where frequently take journalists and
Photographers to some of their forward
positions, on a mutual commonsense
basis. So far this system has not been
abused. It was made quite clear to the
Press early on that no photographers or
reporters would ever be allowed past the
Australians’ base at Cambrai Camp, Bau
(about 20 miles from Kuching). The first
correspondents ever knew of any real
news was when it was released in Can-
berra. Little wonder the Press cottoned
on to statements by private soldiers and
NCOs and gleaned their information
where they could they certainly had
nothing to lose as far as the withdrawal
of facilities was concerned.
An EA Spokesman said
"VTot only the Army is facing an
information boom we learned last
week.
“I think we are moving towards an
aware and better informed if not well
informed public opinion in Australia. I
believe if foreign policy is going to be
effective and stable it has to rest on
the support and understanding of an
informed public opinion. I don’t think
foreign policy can ever get too far
removed from the general feeling of the
people in a democracy.” We were talking
to Richard Woolcott about the post he
has held for the last 15 months
Public Information Officer of the
External Affairs Department. Britain and
America have had counterparts for many
years but Mr Woolcott is the first Aus-
tralian appointment to such a job.
He is not a journalist or a public
relations man. At 37, he has had impres-
sive overseas experience. After graduat-
ing from Melbourne University he
joined External Affairs as a diplomatic
cadet, did a Russian interpreter course
in London, was stationed in Moscow
from 1952 until the Australian Embassy
closed over the Petrov affair in 1954,
then had postings in South Africa and
Canberra, returned to Moscow in June,
1959, was with the Australian High
Commission in Kuala Lumpur in 1961-
63 including five months as acting High
Commissioner and then was acting Com-
missioner in Singapore and Deputy
High Commissioner after the establish-
ment of Malaysia.
Mr Woolcott has a daily routine some-
thing like this: He listens to the BBC
news at 11 p.m., morning radio bulletins
at 6.45, 7.30 and 7.45, scans “all the
newspapers” and the department’s
inward telegrams by 10 a.m. and deals
with an average of 20 telephone calls
and two or three visits by correspon-
dents. On “crisis days” days lasting
up to 20 hours his telephone goes
with hardly a break. He also organises
background briefings about once a
month at which returning Heads of
Mission or other departmental officers
can give newsmen an up-to-the-minute
picture of particular regions or events.
He goes on periodic visits to the State
capitals for discussions with editors,
leader writers and specialist foreign
affairs writers. He proposes to extend
these tours to the major provincial news-
papers.
New Frontier at Yarralumla
Tt looks as if Collins Street lunch-hour
strollers in Melbourne won’t be seeing
as much of Lord Casey in future. When
he has been in town, living at his* narrow
little two-storey place in Gipps Street,
East Melbourne, he has taken lunch most
days at the Melbourne Club, and saunter-
ed down afterwards, hatless on fine days.
Always immaculate, always approach-
able, he has been part of the more civi-
lised scene at the “Paris” end of the city.
No one got around to organising a
Press conference when his appointment
as Governor-General was announced.
Newsmen crowded around and the talk
and interviews went on for quite a while
on the footpath by the light of TV lamps.
The next morning, for the evening
papers, there was still no formal con-
ference. The Caseys were at home, and
newsmen and photographers called ad
lib. Lady Casey served coffee in the
kitchen and the new G.G., in dark
lounge suit, striped shirt with white col-
lar, and a restrained grey tie posed at
the telephone and talked of his hopes of
doing something worthwhile with what
so many people have come to regard- as


CXEIJIMp
; ■. :
Teijin Tetoron is to take a flyer in...
to head for the sky in/to travel cool and serene in/to laugh at wrinkles in.
Teijin Tetoron/the original Miracle Fabric/now more versatile than ever.
Accept no substitutes.
Only Teijin Limited makes Teijin Tetoron. Ask your designer.
TEIJIN Tetoron
POLYESTER
TEIJIN LIMITED SYDNEY OFFICE : Swire House, .8 Spring Street, Sydney


a figurehead job. He showed little elation
in his interviews, but maintained an un-
ruffled courtesy. No one could get him
to say when he had been offered the job.
Lady Casey hopes to do at Yarralumla
something of what the Kennedys achiev-
ed at the White House, where they est-
ablished a new sort of meeting of minds
of distinguished citizens, the emphasis
being on personality and achievement
rather than status or convention. The
New Frontier at Yarralumla . . . now
that will be something.
But if anybody can do it, perhaps it
will be the Caseys. For there has been
only one career like that of Richard
Gardiner Casey the second.
M. H. Ellis writes: Born in Brisbane,
in the year of the “ninety flood” and the
Shearers’ Strike (in which his father was
very much involved) Dick Casey had all
the advantages of the son of a great pas-
toralist and mining entrepreneur with all
Australian interests and a President of
the Melbourne Club—Melbourne Gram-
mar School, and Trinity College, Cam-
bridge, where he took an engineering
degree. He served some time as an engin-
eer.
Came the war and his real career
began. What a career even though he
has taken it as all in the day’s work.
Everything about his life has been part
of the whole, of a natural environment.
History first heard of him when as the
young aide-de-camp to Major-General
Bridges, GOC of the First Australian
Division, AIF, on its way to Egypt, he
was the German-speaking interrogator
of Von Muller of the Emden, the re-
corder of that daring raider’s experiences.
He was at Gallipoli with Bridges in
every historic episode. He was just be-
hind Bridges when the latter was mortally
wounded near Steele’s Post on May 15,
1915. The name R. G. Casey crops up
in all the combat volumes of the World
War I History.
A DSO and an MC, father of the now
large External Affairs Department, its
pioneer officer in Canberra in 1927, and
its master for many years; Ambassador
to the United States where Churchill
chose him to be his Minister for State in
the Middle East and a Member of the
British War Cabinet, the first overseas
citizen to hold the glittering and onerous
office of Governor of Bengal, and what
the world seems to have forgotten the
man who built up the Ministry of Devel-
opment and the CSIRO as his most
mtimate enthusiasm. And on top of it
all, Australia’s greatest cosmopolite ever,
at home in every country, knowing the
caders on first name terms, at home in
every situation whether as a young aide-
(e-camp or as Australia’s first peer to
Sl t in the House of Lords, completely im-
perturbable and completely master of the
situation as to the manner born, as he
Will be at Yarralumla.
Easy Lies the Head
It was a memorable last shift. As the
short, stocky leader of Broken Hill’s
8000 workers stepped from the cage
that brought him up from the mine for
the last time, he found a red carpet laid
out for him. With a “What the bloody
hell s this”, he strode over it in his greasy
overalls, hard hat and muddy hobnail
boots, to the lusty cheers of miners.
Then came the customary hand shakes,
speeches and presentation. But this was
no ordinary miner. In a place which
prides itself on its characters, “Shorty”
O’Neil would undoubtedly be the most
colorful to tread the Broken Hill line of
lode in many a decade.
Now William Sydney O'Neil, having
reached the compulsory retiring age of
62, has left the mines to end a career of
48 years. The tough president of the
all-powerful Barrier Industrial Council,
Mr O'Neil is regarded as the “Un-
crowned King” of the Hill.
His compulsory retirement from his
contract mining job will not affect his
position as president of the BIC, much
to the chagrin of a few of his lieutenants
who are itching for the glory of Broken
Hill’s highest post. O’Neil plans to take
another job; mainly so that he can still
be classed as a working unionist and
partly through necessity. Being president
of the BIC since 1956 has been a costly
business, for he receives no honorarium
(in fact, utterly refuses to accept on e?
and is paid ovAy wages rates for time
taken off for union business. Thus every
time he took time off foe unior business
he lost part of his contract earnings.
In this way he lost about £3500 in
his nine years as Broken Hill's top union
boss because his workmates, who shared
contract earnings with him, always ended
up about £4OO in front each year.
To add spice to the occasion of his
retirement, he had some spirited words
to say about the BHP, his first boss:
No worker in Broken Hill has anything
to thank the BHP for.” About arbitra-
tion, outlawed in Broken Hill since 1920:
“Why should a man on £BOOO a year tell
me that I can live on £lOOO a year? It’s
just not right! We won’t have it here.”
And even about the BIC: “Except for
one agreement during the depression, we
have gained something from every one
we have made. And since the BIC came
on the scene in 1925, there has never
been one major stoppage on the mines.”
A man of definite views, is “Shorty”
O’Neil.
The Cover
eith Barlow's cover shows war-
brides Mrs S. Sadako Austen (nee
Higuchi) on the left and Mrs Miyako
Sharp (nee Kaneyama), now both of
Cowra, NSW.
SOLDIERS' WOMEN
80 Years Ago: August 8, 1885
T'he Soudan Contingent had de-
A parted, served, returned, and
been disbanded when it occurred to
some of those who had been instru-
mental in despatching it that some-
thing further was necessary before
the word ‘"finis” was written to a
unique chapter in our national history.
Banquets and babble had fittingly
inaugurated the wild expedition. To
be in keeping, let food and froth
close it. This is the genesis of the
dinner given a week ago by the
citizens of Sydney. The refection was
held in the Exhibition Building and
quite 900 persons must have occupied
places at the tables.
A few words may be spared
regarding the banquet. VVe consider
that to allow the soldiers to bring
their female relatives to the dinner,
and then shut them up in a gallery
in full view of the mounds of whole-
some food and drink which the hus-
bands, brothers, and sweethearts
were steadily reducing, was callous-
ness of a peculiarly reprehensible
kind. It was nothing new for them
to see their protectors eat. At the
table that night there was probably
no soldier whose appetite and capac-
ity were not well known to some-
body in the gallery. It is idle to say
that those poor ladies made up for
their enforced fast by at a later
hour timidly venturing among the
revellers, and making short work of
the debris. In future, we trust either
that places will be found for females
at public banquets, or, if that is
impossible, that they be securely
locked up at home, under proper
supervision.


Tanner
"I don't know what's wrong with you, but if you'd care to donate to my postgraduate study fund
I could find out."


PLAIN ENGLISH
Not Yet Korea
Tn one respect the most significant
1 aspect of President Johnson’s an-
nouncement on Vietnam last week is
what he'did not say. The United States
Government is not yet going to call up
the reserves, it is not yet going to as-
sume command of all allied forces in
South Vietnam, and it is not yet going
to bomb North Vietnam industries. It
is in other words still postponing any
decision to commit itself to a full-
scale war on the Korean pattern with
up to a million Americans involved.
Its commitment of another 50,000
troops is based on the recognition that
the military position is now worse than
was expected and on the determination
that the "Allies are not going to be
pushed out. The new commitment is
considered to be enough for that pur-
pose and no more. At the same time
President Johnson’s aim is still negoti-
ation provided it is real negotiation
and not a face-saving form of surren-
der and the maintenance of the mili-
tary position until the end of the mon-
»oon season, when it will be clear
whether or not Hanoi is prepared to
legotiate.
But as far as Australia is concerned,
■he President’s announcement under-
mes further weaknesses in our posi-
iop. We have welcomed the American
leeision but we have not announced
my new commitment of our own, and
)ur existing commitment, while of the
greatest interest to us is still a very
>mall element indeed in the total situa-
tion. The point of course is that we are
simply not yet able to send more troops
to Vietnam (although by the end of
the monsoon season this should be pos-
sible). But meanwhile there is still no
significant appeal from the Federal
Government for more volunteers for
overseas service, an appeal which
would show that the Government
meant business and would be even
more justified now than it was during
the Korean war.
This in turn is only another aspect of
the lack of proper publicity that is
being given to this war which is offi-
dally recognised as involving our sur-
vival. The main significance of the re-
cent “teach-ins”, for example, is that
although they were basically organ-
ised by critics of Government policy,
most of the people who attended them
or watched them on television were
not critics. They attended or watched
them because they seemed to be among
the best opportunities for getting in-
formation on the war. Although the
facts so obviously support the Govern-
ment case, it has not bothered to take
the facts to the people and has left it to
“teach-in” speakers to do this.
The Government has published a set
of select documents of some value to
experts but it has produced no pam-
phlet or White Paper for more popular
distribution. We look to the Americans
for military leadership, but we should
not have to look to them for spokesmen
in our own cause.
A Waterfront Mt Isa ?
the waterfront crisis approaches a
Mt Isa scale, it is increasingly clear
hat one of the groups that suffers most
rom the activities of the Communist
eaders of the Waterside Workers’
federation is the wharfies the;mselves,
"ho are forced—and often intimidated
- mto stoppages that they neither
nor understand.
Even leaving aside the paramount
onsiderations of economic develop-
nent and defence involved in any
waterfront crisis, the individual wharfie
nows he has much to gain by indus-
ial peace. With an average pay of
jU for 40 hours he is the best paid
-rrn-skilled worker in the country. Des-
the occasional difficulties of work-
on some less well-equipped over-
j- as ships, his work is not over-
demanding compared with that of, say,
meat lumpers or some factory laborers,
and his hardest job is carrying a bag
of wheat or rice a maximum of 12
yards. His conditions are comparatively
good and his welfare is protected by
vigilance officers and job delegates. He
would be glad to be left alone.
But he is not left alone and his right
to work suppressed by his Communist-
controlled executive. The Federal
Government and the Stevedoring
Industry Authority have already
used all of their available legal and
economic weapons to stop this poli-
tical oppression and economic disrup-
tion, but they have failed. They can
only succeed now if they introduce
new legislation and an appropriately
tough administration.
This may even involve giving the
Stevedoring Industry Authority the
power to de-register all wharfies and
call for a new labor force. Such an
extreme move would obviously preci-
pitate a massive industrial crisis, but
the Stevedoring Authority and the Gov-
ernment, backed by the public, would
win it. In any case there may be no
other solution.
It is now as clear as day that there
never will be either peace on the water-
front or a fair deal for wharfies until
the Communists are driven off the
waterfront.
GPs
Tt is ironical that when launching the
A public appeal for £200,000 by the
Australian College of General Practi-
tioners, the NSW Minister for Health,
Mr Jago, should have raised the ques-
tion of Government intervention to
ensure that the medical profession pro-
vide adequate medical services for
rural areas. By implication he was
pointing out, on an occasion when the
profession was appealing to the public
for support, how badly the profession
had in this respect failed to serve the
public from whom it was seeking sup-
port.
The College’s aim of raising money
to help general practitioners improve
their standards in an increasingly spe-
cialised profession is a laudable one
and the College has properly arranged
for public representation on the com-
mittee that will spend the money col-
lected. But the point is the public
should have a far greater say in the
general affairs of this all-too-arcane
profession.
The medical profession is adamantly
opposed to the idea of nationalisation
of medicine or of greater Government
interference in medical matters. But it
does not seem to realise that its best
defence against Government control is
public support, and that it can only get
this by arranging for a greater public
participation in professional policy-
making. The College of General Practi-
tioners has set a good precedent in
its appeal for funds by making clear
that public non-Government represen-
tatives will have a say in how the
money raised is to be spent. The next
step is to extend this public accounta-
bility into other departments of pro-
fessional life such as the setting of fees.
It is not enough to be accountab'e only
when making public appeals for money.


THIS AUSTRALIA
ALP
Whitlam’s Week
In the cockpit
W E. CHAMBERLAIN
GOUGH WHITLAM
By BRIAN JOHNS
At last the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, Mr Gough Whitlam, has projected
himself into the cockpit in the struggle for the leadership of the Labor Party over
the one issue on which he can win Unity Tickets. His firm stand and walk-
outs at last week’s meetings of the ALP Federal executive achieved what has
not been seen in the Labor Party for a decade: the Left wing scrambling in retreat
in the face of the Right.
As The Bulletin went to Press, mem-
bers of the Left and Right were planning
their strategy in the light of Mr Whit-
lam’s moves at Federal executive
stratagems which could be faits accomplis
as this is read. But in all the ploys
considered by delegates at the city
hotels and over the wires in interstate
phone calls on the weekend basic to
the thinking was that the recalcitrant
Victorians had lost the initiative and
that whatever happens at this week’s
conference, however much ground was
recovered, Whitlam could still complete
last week’s rout by taking the fight to
the place where it can be resolved once
and for all Caucus. This was the rea-
son that the Victorians spent the week-
end working out a compromise on Unity
Tickets to offer NSW before conference
opened. A pitfall in any compromise is
that it could leave Whitlam without an
issue to fight for the leadership at the
coming Caucus on August 15.
This was the factor that brought the
Victorians into line on the first day
of the executive meeting when they
wilted by withdrawing their move to
have Whitlam censured for his televi-
sion opposition to their proposal to
legalise Unity Tickets with Communists
in union elections. They wilted because
Mr Whitlam let it be known that if he
were censured he would bring about a
“spill” of all positions in the Federal
Caucus. In the wilting they left in the
lurch Whitlam’s most determined and
skilful opponent, West Australian State
secretary Mr F. E. Chamberlain, in the
final censure motion which was defeated
six to five with Victoria being in the
ignominious position of voting with the
majority a fact which drew the
bitter rebuke from the proposer of the
censure, Mr Martin Nicholls (South
Australia), that he had been dumped by
the Victorians.
But it was Whitlam’s two walk-outs
on the executive on Friday which
threw the Left most into confusion.
Desperate as they are to avoid a
straight-out contest between Mr Calwell
and his Deputy in the coming Caucus,
they realised that these walk-outs left
Whitlam himself precious little room
to manoeuvre even if his taste for a
head-on collision wanes.
The support Whitlam commands in
the Party in the main comes from grudg-
ing respect. This respect has always been
flawed by the feeling that in the last
analysis Whitlam, as it is put simply
and crudely, “will not fight”. It does
not matter that most of those who
charged him in this way have not them-
selves shown any real appetite for bat-
tling the Left, nor that they have the
tactical ability, which Whitlam undoub-
tedly lacks, to oust the Left; otherwise
Labor’s situation could hardly be as it is.
In a way there is rough justice in
this. It is a measure of the distance
Whitlam has travelled in recent months
that he is now regarded as the medic
to cure “the running sore” of Unity
Tickets. He has managed to coalesce
opposition to the Left around himself.
Given the lack of warmth and
enthusiasm there is in the Labor Party
for the prospect of Whitlam as Leader,
this is no mean achievement. What he
has done : n fact is to bring home to
the Right that in the conflict over Unity
Tickets they are involved not in a
personality struggle but in a fight for
the right to direct the ideology of the
Labor Party.
This was behind the former State
president of the Victorian Labor Party’s
address to the National Press Club in
Canberra on Friday and also the resigna-
tion of Victorian Labor intellectual, Mr
Ross Terrill, from his position as deputy
chairman of the State branch’s foreign
affairs committee. It will also be the
mainspring of expedted resignations by
other prominent Labor men.
However, there was chagrin in the
Whitlam camp at the decision of the
Australian Workers’ Union at its meeting
last week to warn the ALP that if there
was any weakening on its policy over
Unity Tickets it would completely sever
its association with the party. Those
close to Whitlam believe that the AWU’s
stand could harden moderate ALP
forces into resistance on Left lines.
Some strategists among Whitlam’s
supporters believe that Whitlam him-
self could have done much better on
Friday. According to this assessment,
when Nicholls moved his unsuccessful
amendment just before the lunch break
that the Victorian report on Unity
Tickets in the Australian Railways’
Union be returned to the State executive
for further action, Whitlam alienated
support by pressing too hard. These
same strategists regretted that Whitlam
staged his first walk-out after the execu-
tive had reached its decision and was
actually adjourned.
It was at this stage that Whitlam
turned his full virulence on the Vic-
torians, calling them “traitors”. It was
probably concern at the timing rather
than the action that Mr Colbourne
rang Whitlam over lunch and asked him
to return.
However much Whitlam might have
minimised the risk of alienating swinging


WATERFRONT
votes from State delegations at this
weeks conference, Calwell did nothing
to help his cause at last week’s meetings.
After being present at the Victorian
executive meeting which decided to
move for Whitlam’s censure he was
absent from the Federal executive when
it was brought up. As soon as the
Whitlam clash started at the adjourn-
ment on Friday, he left the room. His
leadership contribution appears to have
been limited at the executive meetings
to listing four weak points in the
Government policies and four weak
points in Labor’s. In the former
category he included Vietnam, con-
scription, overseas investment and
poverty, and in the latter category -
Labor’s problems - foreign affairs,
defence, Unity Tickets and State Aid.
He did not explain what he proposed
should be done about it all at the Fede-
ral executive, but no doubt the Victorian
executive, which he flew back to Mel-
bourne to attend on Friday night, was
satisfied.
However, a temporary but purely
temporary respite was given to
another vital report formulating a new
education policy. The report, referred
to conference and certain to be defeated
there, recommends the abandonment of
the distinction between “direct” and
“indirect” aid by these key proposals:
scholarships, transport and library bene-
fits should be given to all pupils with-
out distinction; provision should be
made for sharing by independent and
State school pupils of such facilities as
science blocks; and where facilities, as,
say, science blocks, are provided to inde-
pendent schools by the States, the Gov-
eminent must be able to exercise control
over their provision through its rele-
vant department,
_ , , „
° n ‘ he eiec,ora vital issue of the
Wyndham proposals for the reform of
he °f 'h* AI ; P *e execu-
*'Ve d ', n ° m ° re , 1
d f k ~0. ,0 L he Naticita! Organising and
P ' an " mB C ° mn,, “ ee which had already
shown its goodwill to the pro-
poSals f;™ 8 ™ 13 "" 8 them ’ on| y now "
a P pears that Wyndham s proposals for
rais ' ns finance had also had ,he ch °Pper.
The committee rejected Mr Chamber-
lain’s suggestion of several months ago
for a national referendum on State Aid
and recommended the deletion in the
present education platform that Labor
supports the right of independent schools
to be established by community groups
“at their own cost”. But the report is
academic because Western Australia,
South Australia, Victoria and Queensland
will vote against it with only New South
Wales and Tasmania supporting it.
On the High Tide
The WWF’s declaration of tear
Commissioner A. E. Woodward who will conduct the stevedoring industry inquirv
is about to feel the tide of history wash over him and leave him safe and irrelevant
in its wake.
By the time the inquiry has begun
there will be little or no point in it. The
Federal Government had hoped to delay
taking serious action on the waterfront
sibilation until Mr Woodward finished
his enquiry and report in about four
months, but the open declaration of war
by the Waterside Workers’ Federation
last week demands an immediate ad-
ministrative response,
The WWF is determined to increase
its disruption of the Australian economy
even at the risk of losing at least the
private support of its own members. The
situation on the Sydney waterfront last
week exemplifies the scale of disorder.
On one particular day 2300 of Syd-
ney’s waterfront workers were under
suspension; 400 had to serve another full
day’s suspension—some of this group had
been off work since July 12; another 400
had to serve two days’ suspension
many of these had been off since July
16; three days had to be served by the
remaining 1500, most of whom had been
off since July 18.
Under normal circumstances the
waterfront has an average of about 10
per cent of its labor force under sus-
pension. Union levies can therefore pay
them around £l4 a week until they go
back. The huge number under suspen-
sion or on strike last week meant that
the Sydney waterfront could afford only
30/- for its unemployed. This was the
reason that the union allowed its men
to return to work and gave them a few
strike-free days.
Whilst they were granting their men in
Sydney a respite, the leadership of the
WWF swung its attention to Melbourne
and a walk-off soon followed.
Later in the week the Federal Secre-
tary of the WWF, Mr C. Fitzgibbon,
announced that his union would hold
Australia-wide stoppages on alternate
Wednesdays until further notice. As well
as this regular strike there will be an
industrial see-saw of occasional stoppages
in Melbourne and Sydney.
The Federal Government is thus faced
with an organised campaign which is an
actual and potential threat to Austra-
lia s economy and defence; a campaign
which is political rather than economic
in its origins.
The Australian Stevedoring Authority
has denied that there is any truth in the
WWF claim that watersiders are grossly
underpaid by supplying figures showing
that the average pay for waterfront
workers throughout Australia is more
than £3O for a 40-hour week.
Faced with disruption that is political
The Bulletin, August 7, 1965


w
*
p*
■
S&
m
m
When the occasion calls for
your best tea service
A bridge party an important guest
or just old friends dropping in for a chat
there’s always the pleasant ritual of
serving tea from your'best tea service.
And if you’re an astute hostess, you
serve Lipton Royal Ceylon Blend.
Like you, your friends will appreciate
this little touch of luxury. The delicate,
pure Ceylon flavour unmistakable ...
wonderfully refreshing . r . . lingers on
your palate ... a sheer delight to the last
savoured sip.
Make your next special occasion a real
success, serve
Royal (eylon
/jfend
\ and \ lb. packets
TEA
M :
ROYAL CEYLON BLEND
UPTON’S: TEA MERCHANTS TO THE WORLD FOR MORE THAN A CENTURY
LIP. 321 B.
rather than economic, and with the fact
that all efforts to control the WWF
through the machinery of arbitration,
penal clauses and the rest of its appara-
tus of coercion, have failed, the Federal
Government must now take new and
firmer legislative and administrative
action. Senior Ministers are debating the
question of whether they can risk another
Mt Isa-type situation, which would be
the likely consequence of really tough
measures.
The firm action of the Chifley Govern-
ment in 1949 is also being raised as a
precedent for strong action, but the
Government is aware that Mr Chifley
had the support of the moderate unions
when he attacked the leadership of the
miners. One of the issues being can-
vassed by the Government is the likely
attitude of the ACTU and the State
Trades and Labor Councils' in the event
of a head-on collision between the
Government and the WWF.
Some members of the Government feel
that the time has come for them to tackle
the WWF in a boots-and-all encounter
and to crush the power of the Com-
munist leadership. The industrial hawks
of Cabinet have given serious considera-
tion to the suggestion that the entire
waterfront be closed down, all water-
siders deregistered, and an open call be
made for new labor. The Australian
Stevedoring Industry Authority would
then have to be given expanded powers
and staff so that it could carefully screen
all applicants for jobs and keep out the
Communists and their agents.
Supporters of this strong-arm approach
have backed their case by revealing that
14,000 men applied for 600 vacancies
which were advertised for the Sydney
waterfront last year.
The WWF doubts that the Govern-
ment has the courage to risk alienating
the ACTU, the graziers, and commercial
importers, who would suffer in the
waterfront paralysis which would cer-
tainly follow strong Government action.
Its dogmatic leadership believes that the
whole of the union movement would
rebel against the Government if it at-
tempted widespread deregistration; and
that Cabinet would be forced to
late.
But whilst the arteries of the water-
front slowly clog, as more and more
ships are forced to sail without taking
their cargo, and as the wharfside costs
rise, it must become apparent to more
and more members of the Government
that a collision with the WWF is inevit-
able.
As one member of the Government
put it a few days ago, “The waterfront
chaos is political in its origins, and the
only solution to it lies in political action.”
BRIAN BUCKLEY


VIETNAM
Dr K’s Shadow
The awesome name at the Monash teach-in
The shadow of Dr F. Knopfelmacher seems to haunt the dreams of the Mel-
bourne academic establishment. When plans for last week’s “teach-in” at Monasn
University first were being discussed, the Professor of History, Professor J. Legge,
and the Professor of Government, Professor R. Davis, both said that they would not
be party to any arrangements which included Dr Knopfelmacher as a speaker.
This attitude is not new early in
1962, when officials of the Melbourne
University ALP Club were organising
protests at the Government’s decision to
deport a number of Portuguese sailors,
Professor Legge refused to sign a tele-
gram of protest on the grounds that one
of the signatories was Dr Knopfel-
macher. In the early stages of prepara-
tion for the Vietnam “teach-in”, those
student bodies who were anxious to
secure able anti-Communist speakers
for the “teach-in” did not have Dr
Knopfelmacher in mind, and no objec-
tions were raised to the professorial pre-
requisites.
However, on Monday, July 26, Denis
Warner felt that the programme had
been set up with too great a bias towards
the Left, and told the organisers that
he would not speak. The organisers then
approached Mr Santamaria, who de-
clined because of prior commitments,
but suggested that Dr Knopfelmacher
should be approached, and so, at a
time when the much-organised and
much-publicised “teach-in” appeared to
be in danger of premature collapse, that
awesome name was once again thrown
into the ring.
The organisers, in desperation, pur-
sued three different paths. They
pleaded with Warner to reconsider his
decision, attempts were made to persuade
another unyielding professor, Professor
McMahon Ball, to alter his attitude to
appearing on a platform with Dr Knop-
felmacher (for at this stage, Mr Geoffrey
Fairbairn, of Canberra, and Owen
Harries of Sydney, were threatening to
withdraw in protest), and Mr Ray Evans,
ALP member and editor of “Partisan”,
was asked to act as a fill-in if required.
The final solution, a testament to the
persuasive abilities of the committee,
worked out as follows: Denis Warner
agreed to reserve his decision provided
the imbalance was corrected; a Monash
lecturer, Mr Graeme Duncan, there-
upon agreed to stand down from the
panel. Thus it was after a prolonged and
painful labor that the Monash “teach-
in” was born.
As it turned out, all the work was
well worth it.
First, it was a golden opportunity
to observe the Minister for External
Affairs, Mr Hasluck, who is one of the
possible contenders for the leader-
ship when Sir Robert retires, in action
under difficult conditions. It is inevitable
that his performance should be compared
with that of Labor Foreign Secretary
Michael Stewart at the Oxford “teach-
in”. On all counts, it was a poor per-
formance. Mr Hasluck cast aside a
speech prepared for him by his depart-
ment, and substituted a lecture of his
own. As a paper on Australia’s position
in the world taken over a 50-year,
period, and delivered with academic
detachment and judicious restraint, it
was very good but on this occasion
and in front of such an audience it was
fatal. Very few in the audience were
interested in historical views, and they
were less interested in such views
developed, no matter how ably, at
length. Mr Hasluck made the mistake,
which Mr Stewart did not, of taking the
“teach-in” at its face value.
There is no doubt that the Minister
would make an excellent Professor of
Politics or History (and we are in sore
need of such people) but after the
Monash “teach-in” it is hard to see
him as Prime Minister.
Dr Jim Cairns did not develop any
new themes during his speech. He
repeated the “analysis” of the State
Department White Paper, originally
published in the American publication,
“I. F. Stone’s Weekly”, which “proves”,
apparently, at, any rate to the satisfac-
DR KNOPFELMACHER
tion of Dr Cairns, that the war in South
Vietnam is a civil war, and that external
aid from the North is minimal and,
moreover, has only been given because
of increasing US involvement. It must
have been embarrassing, therefore, for
him to subsequently hear Professor
McMahon Ball state categorically that
the war was controlled and directed from
Hanoi, that Peking was "heavily involved,
and that these were statements that no
reasonable person could dispute. Profes-
sor Ball did not believe, however, that
these facts changed his basic premise
that “American policy was profoundly
wrong”. His argument was that any
Western use of military power against
Communist terrorists’ operations would
be self-defeating, that Western military
operations can only drive Asian opinion
further in the direction of those against
whom Western military power is used,
and that the countries of South-East
Asia do not want to be defended by
the West from Communist subversion,
terror, infiltration and eventual over-
"He just said his first tender little love word will you hit him
or will I?"


throw. “The price of such defence is too
high.”
Professor Ball was asked to give
details of this sort of Asian opinion.
, c , . . .
and reference was made to statements
, r .
by Lee Kuan Yew and Professor
Sibnarayan Ray, in favor of the Ameri-
can presence. The Professor’s reply was
that the consideration should not be
given to statements made by “clients of
the West”. He did not say whether he
referred to Lee Kuan Yew, or Professor
a y» or both.
Denis Warner concluded the evening s
proceedings. He defended the Govern-
i , ut .
ment s general position much more ably
and forcjb , y (han , he Minister _ indeed
one |ef , , he .. tea ch-in” feeling that the
Government’s policies would be better
formulated and argued if Denis Warner
were the Minister.
DLP
Second Coming
Vietnam as a rallying point
So far the major effect of the Victorian ALP campaign against Australian par-
ticipation in the Vietnam war has been to supply a useful rallying point for the DLP.
The three ALP meetings held to date
have been disasters for the organisers. At
Morwell, half of the 400 or so in the
audience were clearly there by DLP re-
quest. They initiated a loud and constant
barrage of interjection which finally un-
nerved the Leftist speakers and sank the
meeting.
For the Western District protest meet-
ing in Hamilton, DLP members and sup-
porters rolled in from town, farm and
hamlet for miles around. After subjecting
ALP State Secretary Mr Bill Hartley to
a fierce storm of abuse they marched
from the hall. When the Labor forces re-
grouped they found that there had been
only 30 of them in a hall of 300.
It was evident at the protest meeting in
the Melbourne suburb of Ringwood that
more than half of the audience were
hostile to Dr Cairns and the rest of the
official panel of speakers. The questions
and interjections indicated DLP origins.
These three meetings took a lot of the
heart out of ALP members who organised
and attended them. They realised only too
well that the whole scheme had boome-
ranged; that the chief result of their hard
work was to stimulate the membership
and energy of their DLP opponents.
They had forcibly demonstrated to
themselves once again that, despite all
predictions to the contrary, the DLP will
not lose its numbers or dynamism so long
as the ALP can be accused of adopting
pro-Communist positions.
Membership of the DLP is growing,
particularly in Victoria where there are
now about 15,000 on the books. In com-
parison, the ALP membership in Victoria
has reduced to about 7000 in the
branches some observers claim it is
significantly less.
Five years ago the Victorian ALP had
about 16,000 members; and before the
split some 30,000.
The DLP used to lose a lot in mem-
bership and active support in between
elections, when allegations of ALP-Com-
munist affiliations were less constant and
nothing much could be done about them
in any case.
The Vietnam war has provided the
DLP with the kind of continuous, burn-
ing issue it needs to maintain its between-
election vitality. This has been rein-
forced by the weekly television broad-
casts of Mr B. A. Santamaria, whose tele-
vision following, the DLP claims, has
B. A. SANTAMARIA
SENATOR KENNELLY
almost quadrupled since the Vietnam war
developed. The fact that Mr Santamaria
is not a member of the DLP is not
thought to be of much significance by
most of his viewers.
What the DLP leaders are wondering
about is how strong a bargaining position
their present vitality would give them if
some kind of deal were proposed by the
Right wing of the ALP. The greatest
danger they face as an organisation would
come from a victory by the kind of
forces in the ALP represented by Sena-
tor Kennelly and Mr Beazley.
This group could not be accused of
being a danger to the nation as its foreign
affairs policy is close to the DLP. It
would therefore not need to reunite with
the DLP because it would have a strong
case for obtaining DLP preferences. It
would also have a strong case for winning
the DLP primary vote.
DEVELOPMENT
New Ord
Moves?
McEwen’s hint
There were broad hints from Perth
last week that a change of policy was
imminent in Canberra over backing for
the Ord irrigation scheme, which restive
West Australians have projected into a
test case for northern development.
The first hint came from the Deputy
Prime Minister, Mr who as
Country Party leader was in Perth for
the Country and Democratic League’s
annual State conference. The Federal
Government had not turned its back on
the scheme, he said, and had great hopes
for northern development. It would not
be committed on the result of only one
harvest, but Mr McEwen said he was
delighted with the magnificent reports
that this season’s cotton yields on the
scheme were 50 to 60 per cent higher
than in the first season.
The second hint of a possible move
was reported the following day in Lon-
don’s “Financial Times” whose rep-
resentative, looking over the West,
quoted the Minister for Industrial De-
velopment, Mr Court, as saying that he
was confident the Federal Government
would soon change its stance on this
scheme.
Mr McEwen, after making these head-
lines as he stepped off his aircraft, con-
tinued to dominate the conference,
quickly prompting a rebuke from the
Treasurer, Mr Holt, and a compliment
(“We are delighted to have the support
of such an authority”) from the Leader
of the Opposition, Mr Calwell, for his
attack on foreign investment.


“I am really rocked,” Mr McEwen
said, “at the degree of control of Aus-
tralia’s food industry that has passed
into foreign hands. I don’t think it is
good enough that this country should
have to live by selling a bit of its
heritage every year.” Mr McEwen cited
flour-mills, bakeries, milk, butter, cheese,
soup and fruit-canning industries
“which require oniy simple skills”
among those he felt had slipped need-
lessly into overseas ownership.
He also said he was thoroughly un-
happy at the extent to which oil search
rights had been granted to overseas
concerns, though he acknowledged this
kind of risk capital is hard to find at
home. He called for “some reasonable
compromise. I do not believe that foreign
capitalists investing here would be in-
sensible to the point that investment in
such a stable country should carry oppor-
tunities for partnership by Australians.
This point is not being put by the
authorities responsible.”
There were strong overtones of
Liberal-Country Party tension when the
issue of the Liberal and Country League
name was again raised. The name
problem, brushed aside earlier in the
month at the Liberals’ conference, had
been revived in February with an under-
taking given after the Liberals’ handsome
State elections victory.
DON LIPSCOMBE
ABORIGINES
Western
Little Rock
“Hisses and murmurings ”
There was an angry reaction in the
little town of Gnowangerup, in the south-
western wheatbelt area of Western Aus-
tralia, on findings of an inquest into the
death in March of the eight-week-old
b % ghl of Aboriginal Mrs Ilis Roberts.
The Coroner found that the town’s
only doctor, Dr Alex Winrow. a 41-year-
old ex-serviceman, had failed to give the
bab y treatment for dehydration in the
way recommended by the State's child-
rens hospital; had been careless, and had
ailed to show the skill towards a patient
that was required of a doctor by the
Criminal Code. A Criminal Court will
ry Dr Winrow in Albany in September.
When the Coroner’s finding was given,
r Winrow collapsed, and there were
angry noises from the back of the court-
room, so packed that the dead child’s
mother was standing outside. Hisses and
murmurings were directed towards the
oroner, and later there was hostility
against journalists who had gone from
1 erth to cover the case.
Gnowangerup has one of the biggest
concentrations of Aborigines in the State
and has been called WA’s Little Rock.
About one-third of the population of
1000 are Aborigines, or more correctly
part-Aborigines there is only a hand-
ful of full-bloods.
However, the Minister for Native Wei-
fare, Mr Edgar Lewis, told the Country
Party conference in Perth last week that
his department was planning to buy 200
acres of Gnowangerup land for an Abo-
rigines’ farm training school. Such a
scheme was strewn with disappointment,
he said, pointing out with a great deal of
understatement that isolated pockets of
racial discrimination still existed. In the
drive for complete assimilation, he told
the conference it would be “many years
between seed-time and harvest”.
POLITICS
The Untitled Role
Cotton and the Senate vacancy
Since the candidates’ names first went up there has been no doubt in Liberal
Party quarters that Robert Carrington Cotton will fill the casual New South Wales
Senate vacancy created by the recent resignation of Sir William Spooner.
This was not merely because Cotton
was undoubtedly the strongest all-round
candidate of the eight contenders due to
face the Liberal Party pre-selection com-
mittee of the party’s State Executive
and 40 members representing Federal
electorate conferences within the State
this week. Cotton possesses the pre-
eminent qualification to succeed Sir
William Spooner an intimate know-
r. c. COTTON
ledge of the Liberal Party machine.
With Sir William’s resignation there
occurred not only a Senate place, but
a vacancy in the position of unofficial
spokesman for the NSW Liberal Party
within the Government.
It will not be because of Parkinson’s
law, however, that the Liberal Party
will fill Sir William’s position with not
one but two men. A beginning was made
on this solution some 12 months ago
when Sir William resigned from Cabinet
as Minister for National Development.
On his resignation the Minister for Labor
and National Service, Mr William
McMahon, as the next most senior
minister, became the de jure spokesman
for NSW within Cabinet. But there still
remained the problem of filling the
never-defined role of the Parliamentary
link between the Liberal Party and the
NSW machine.
But with the retirement of Sir Wil-
liam Spooner this role will never again
be as important. In some ways the
position itself has become an anachron-
ism. When Sir William entered Parlia-
ment and went directly into the Ministry
in 1949, he went there as the first NSW
president of what, compared with today,
was a fledgeling party organisationally.
As the Liberal Party machine has become
more sophisticated on both State and
Federal levels the cogs in the wheels
of policy have become smoother, if not
more publicised.
However, NSW Liberals are sharply
aware that their complement in the
Federal Parliament is not a cohesive
force. (Even the then Senator Spooner’s
iron hand was not able to prevent the
drift of two NSW votes which cost him
the Deputy Leadership in contest with
Holt, while at the moment it is estimated
that four, possibly five, NSW Liberal
votes would go to McEwen if there was
a contest between the Country Party
leader and Holt.) There is still the need
on occasion for liaison at the parliament-
ary level between the State branches
and with the Federal body.
Since joining the Liberal Party in 1947
Mr Cotton, now 49, has held official
positions at State and Federal levels.
He was NSW president of the Liberal
Party from 1957 until 1960 when he
became Federal vice-president and for a
time acting president. In these roles he
became well known and respected,
which, as one senior Government mem-
ber said last week, “makes him an
obvious choice to put the NSW view
when and where it is needed”.
Cotton himself is modest about his
future. “I have changed direction a few
times in my life and ff I get to the
Senate I will regard myself as no more
than a learner with some political
experience, but a learner’. Describing
himself as M a depression kid”, Cotton is
now the managing director of a group
of timber companies and the owner of
a 1300-acre property and sheep stud
at Qberon.
B.J.


mmm
■ •
&
m
Hi
.
1
i® 1
<r />"' j
iis
' .
> i
r
V- /
s£** <
\
J A
I I
■'
*,' \ . .
Men who guide the destinies
of the world wear
THE ROLEX "DAY-DATE"^
Most remarkable achievement in watch-making, the Rolex
Oyster Perpetual “Day-Date.” Available only in 18-ct. gold
or platinum, with matching “President” bracelet.
Like all Rolex Chronometers, every “Day-Date” is now
awarded the highest distinction of the Sw'iss Institutes
for Official Chronometer Tests, the mention ‘Especially
good results.’ Its superlative accuracy is protected by the
famous Rolex Oyster case, made in Geneva by Swiss
craftsmen and guaranteed 100% waterproof, and its move-
ment is self-wound by the Perpetual rotor. The date and
the day of the week, written in full, change instantaneously
every midnight.
THE ROLEX WATCH COMPANY LIMITED (Founder: H.Wilsdorf), geneva, Switzerland
SYDNEY: ANGUS & COOTE, 500 GEORGE STREET MELBOURNE : DUNKLINGS, 313 BOURKE STREET PERTH : LINDSAYS, 635 HAY STREET
BRISBANE: MACKAYS. 0 ADELAIDE STREET


Rolex watches
You know their names as you know
your own. You know their faces
from a thousand newspaper and
magazine articles. You have seen
them and heard their voices on
newsreels and on your television
screen. Their actions and decisions
influence the pattern of our lives.
We cannot mention their names,
or show pictures of them. It would
not be fitting to do so, for they
include royalty, the heads of states,
great service commanders. But we
invite you to look carefully at the
next pictures that you see of them,
at their wrists as well as their faces
and clothes. You will notice that
in almost every case they wear a
wrist-watch. That watch will
most likely have been made by
Rolex of Geneva.
We are proud of the service given
by Rolex watches to so many
eminent men throughout the
world. It is scarcely necessary to
point out that the performance of
these watches is, in the highest
degree, accurate and dependable.
w
ROL E X
1 landmark in the history of
Time measurement
LAW
The Interrogators
“Is this justice ”
By GORDON CHESTERMAN
While solicitors, if not barristers, generally welcome NSW’s Attorney-General
Mr K. M. McCaw’s brainchild, the Law Reform Commission, a group of leading
criminal lawyers, is pushing for greater attention to the reform of criminal justice.
The lawyers, who because of legal
ethics cannot be named, told The
Bulletin this week that “the administra-
tion of criminal law in NSW and Aus-
tralia has never been thought about in
any original way.”
They called for a searching look at the
administration of criminal justice, but
at the same time pointed out that only
a handful of NSW’s 3000 solicitors
handled criminal work. Consequently
they could exert little pressure and in-
fluence on the NSW Law Society for
reform in this field.
Mr McCaw’s Law Reform Commis-
sion, headed by Mr Justice Manning with
Mr H. McD. Scott as the solicitor mem-
ber, and Mr R. E. Walker as the execu-
tive member, will begin functioning hext
year. As a first step it will consider:
• The provision of reasonable rights
of appeal for persons harshly treated by
executive or administration decisions
against which no appeal lies in court.
• The desirability of lowering the age
limit of legal disability below 21.
• The desirability of appointing an
ombudsman a public commissioner
who investigates complaints against pub-
lic authorities.
• And will report on draft legislation
dealing with law reform and will seek
to consolidate and revise existing statute
law.
One particular aspect of criminal jus-
tice reform which the lawyers insist
should be given immediate attention was
the question of confessions. One case
quoted to strengthen their argument for
review of confessions was one where
three teenage boys were suspects in a
car conversion incident. Two of the
youths were found quickly by the police,
were questioned at a local station, both
making full confessions.
Subsequently the two boys were dealt
with by the courts. The third youth,
who had legal representation when ques-
tioned by the police, made no word of
admission and no charges were preferred.
“Is this justice?” asked the lawyers.
Police, they said, were naturally
anxious to obtain confessions and were
virtually umpires as to their methods.
The interrogation rules laid down amount
to a farce, they said. If some suspects
were fortunate enough to have represen-
tation during questioning, the lawyers felt
this should be extended to everyone. They
felt that no confession should be taken
by the police unless an umpire was pre-
sent in the form of a magistrate or
lawyer.
Another point for reform the solicitors
suggested was an adjustment of section
51A of the Justices Act. Under this Act
the accused person can plead guilty be-
fore a magistrate without the presenta-
tion of evidence in the usual way. The
accused is then remanded by the magis-
trate to appear before a judge at Quarter
Sessions for sentence.
But a safeguard within the Act allows
the accused to withdraw his plea and the
case is returned to the magistrate. There
are several cases on record in NSW in
which this happened, and on being re-
ferred back to the magistrate the case
was tossed out for lack of evidence.
Except for the time factor, they felt the
old system of a probing magisterial in-
quiry on sworn evidence was preferable.
According to the NSW Law Society
chairman Mr McDonald there “had been
little movement or agitation for reform
in this field. The society has initiated
movement for reform in procedural
measures, but so far no comprehensive
attack on criminal law.
“It may well be the average prac-
titioner is committed to interpreting the
existing law and is discharging his re-
sponsibilities under this to his clients and
to the community. The society would
find it difficult to provide either funds
or personnel to tackle the enormous ques-
tion of criminal reform,” Mr McDonald
said.
PUBLIC SERVICE
18-odd years
... and the secret ballot
For the first time in 18 years the
Federal secretaryship of the influential
23,00'0-strong Commonwealth Public
Service union, the Administrative and
Clerical Officers’ Association, will be
decided by secret ballot at the associa-
tion’s conference in Sydney next month.
The conference, regarded as vitally
important for it can decide the whole


Tex, aows>(!ete, St Mess!
PLAN YOUR SALES CONFERENCES,
CONVENTIONS & RECEPTIONS AT A
REX
HOTEL
IN CANBERRA. Canberra-Rex Hotel: Australia’s
finest convention centre. Spacious areas to accom-
modate up to 600 guests. Accommodation, service
and cuisine to international standards. All areas
and rooms fully air-conditioned.
Ainslie-Rex Hotel: Affording convention and reception
areas for up to 400 people. Centrally situated.
Rooms, service, cuisine to exacting standards.
IN SYDNEY. Carlton-Rex Hotel: Situated in the
heart of Sydney and offering international standards
of service. Four magnificent reception areas cater
for every type of function: weddings, cocktail parties,
banquets, private dinners. Fully air-conditioned.
Bondi-Rex Hotel: Air-conditioned reception areas for
conventions, sales conferences, trade showings and
weddings. Beautiful appointments and facilities.
Full particulars from Functions Manager
Carlton-Rex Hotel: 56 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. Phone
28-5541.
Canberra-Rex Hotel: North-
bourne Avenue, Canberra City.
Phone 4-5311.
Ainslie-Rex Hotel: Canberra:
Cnr. Limestone and Ainslie
Avenues, Canberra. Phone
4-3351.
Bondi-Rex Hotel: Cnr. Beach
Road and Glenayr Ave., Bondi,
Sydney. Phone 30-7247.
or any Rex Hotel
L 264
future of the association comes at a
time when the 23,000 members are con-
cerning themselves with industrial issues
such as claims for margins, basic wage,
work value and many, other improve-
ments of conditions in the service.
The association recently registered a
completely new set of rules which pro-
vides for election of conference delegates
by rank and file of each State, and in
turn the election by secret ballot of
Federal officers takes place at the con-
ference table.
So far there is no indication that the
acting Federal secretary, Mr Stan Inter,
will contest the position. But with a
minimum salary of almost £4OOO (with
room for negotiation) in the offing, it
seems likely that should Mr Inter make
himself available he will come up against
some formidable opposition. Mr Inter
last week said he could give no itidica-
tions of his intentions, and the reaction
was much the same from the branch
secretaries in each State. No one will
know just what interest lies in this key
position until the five-day conference
begins on September 20.
The former Federal secretary, Mr
G. W. F. Smith, was appointed in 1947
and was simply reappointed every five
years until he resigned in 1963. In 1951
the Conciliation and Arbitration Act was
altered to make it mandatory for unions
to conduct elections for their officers,
the association’s registered rules went
unchallenged until 1962 when a Victorian
member, W. W. McKenzie, took court
action. Subsequently the court ruled the
appointment of the Federal secretary as
invalid. When Mr Smith resigned his
position in August, 1963, Mr Imer, who
was the assistant secretary, took over in
an acting capacity.
G.C.
POLICE
A Taste of
Praise
The cyanide inquest
It is rare for counsel in New South
Wales courts to praise police efforts
in investigating crime or deaths, but it
happened during the final submissions at
the inquest into the death of “cyanide
baby” Suzanne Maree Marshall in
Central Court last week.
Suzanne, the 25-month-old daughter
of Mr and Mrs Robert Marshall, of
Gladesville, was found dead in her cot at
the Royal Alexandra Hospital for Child-
ren on June 25 last year. A post-mortem
failed to reveal the cause of death, and
specimens from Suzanne’s body were sent
to the Government Analyst, where, about
a month later, an analyst opened the
jar containing the specimens and smelt
cyanide. Within hours tests conclusively
proved the presence of the poison, and
City Coroner J. J. Loomes issued an
order for exhumation for confirmatory
examination.
At the conclusion of the 12-day im
quest, two members of counsel, Mr
Kevin Murray, for the parents, and Mr
A. B. Shand, for the hospital, praised
the police efforts in investigating Suz-
anne’s death. Mr Murray said the
police involved Detective-Sergeant
Mervin Beck and Detective-Constable G.
Mahoney, both of Regent Street, had
performed a “herculean” task involving
thousands of man-hours and hundreds
of interviews in their State-wide inquiry.
Detective-Sergeant Beck, head of the
team, was to be “commended” for his
“enormous” effort even though the per-
son responsible for Suzanne’s death was
not apprehended. The two police had
done all that could be expected, Mr
Murray added. Mr Shand agreed, say-
ing that with regard to the delay before
the cause of death was discovered one
could have “only respect” for the two
detectives’ handling of the case.
However, the Department of Public
Health was the target for criticism.
Both counsel blamed the Department for
the “amazing” delay in finding the cause
of death which had “hamstrung” detec-
tives and caused them to find “no trace
cf a trail which was stale when they
began searching”. But whether the death
will be “filed away” as another of the
State’s unsolved mysteries will not be
known until after Mr Loomes gives his
finding on September 9.
RUSSELL SCHNEIDER


After Menzies-Who?
Some smell trouble , others advantage ...
By ALAN REID
THERE are men of over thirty with growing families who were boys of fifteen
when Sir Robert Menzies (then plain Mr Menzies) became Prime Minister in
1949. It is this kind of measure that has to be used as the yardstick to indicate
the magnitude of the question “After Menzies who?”
It might be quite a while before that question is answered. Though in hospital
having a checkup, Menzies has all the outward indications of sturdy tough health.
He can travel thousands of miles, spend weeks campaigning, eat and drink heartily
and still show up in the morning as bright as a new button and tireless. But no
man is immortal, and Menzies is 71 at his next birthday on December 20. He cannot
last forever, and already a favorite guessing game is what exactly will happen when
he finally quits the Australian political scene that he overwhelmingly dominated for
so many years.
A lot of people can smell trouble,
and some can smell advantage. Those
who can smell trouble are in the main
on the non-Labor side of politics. A
major source of political strength to
Menzies is that nobody knows better
than he the potentiality for self-destruc-
tion that always exists in a non-Labor
coalition government if it is to continue
to outnumber Labor and maintain its
grip upon the Treasury benches. Before
World War 11, and in the early war
years when he was also Prime Minister,
Menzies watched a coalition break up
because of internal rivalries and in-
trigues. That exercise cost Menzies his
first Prime Ministership and won Labor
eight years in office the years be-
tween 1941 and 1949 when first John
Curtin and later Ben Chifley reigned as
Prime Ministers over seemingly impreg-
nably entrenched Labor administrations.
Aware that history could repeat itself,
Menzies since 1949 has been a con-
ciliating and coalescing force. There
have been numerous occasions when he
could have clashed head on with the
present Country Party Leader, John
McEwen, and when (if he had taken
part in feuds conducted by some of his
followers against McEwen) he could
have exacerbated feelings to the extent
that another period of non-Labor dis-
integration was not beyond the bounds
of possibility. But patiently and with
uncharacteristic tolerance of viewpoints
with which he cannot possibly have
agreed he has been remarkably success-
ful in keeping the strain between the
two parties to the coalition at viable
minimum.
But once Menzies’ calming hand is
removed from the reins there could be
a very different setup. It is hard to see
past Treasurer Harold Holt as Menzies’
successor, both as Parliamentary Leader
of the Liberal Party and Prime Minister
External Affairs Minister Paul Hasluck
and Supply Minister Allen Fairhall oc-
casionally get mentioned as Holt’s riv-
als, but this is more a measure of depth
of some of the feeling against Holt with-
in the Liberal Party than of the reality
of the Hasluck or Fairhall threats. Has-
luck had not paraded an ambition to
become Prime Minister; he is quite curt
and insensitively indifferent to the state
of his popularity within the Liberal Party;
he behaves as though he has no desire to
win friends and supporters. Fairhall
seems to attract the attention of those
who would vote for anyone rather than.
Holt. Even those who push FairhalPs
claims seem to view him as a stick with
which to belabor Holt rather than as a
serious aspirant to Liberal leadership in
his own right.
McEwen also does not seem to want
Holt as Menzies’ successor. The two men
are personally quite friendly. They have
sat alongside each other in government
and opposition for over thirty years.
They have respect for each other’s capa-
cities. But neither friendship nor respect
counts in politics when the chips are
down and factors which people con-
sider larger than friendship or respect
are at stake.
McEwen and Holt have been on op-
position sides of quite a number of policy
fences ever since Holt took over the
Treasury from former Country Party
leader, Sir Arthur Fadden, on Sir
Arthur’s retirement from Federal
politics some years ago. McEwen has
tended to symbolise an expansionist
“take risks” policy compared with Holt’s
more cautious Treasury-influenced out-
look. Recently McEwen has grown in-
creasingly critical of and has received
Liberal Ministerial backing from such
normally staunch Holt supporters as
Labor Minister William McMahon, the
senior NSW Minister the unfettered
inflow of overseas capital and its take-
over of existing Australian industries.
McEwen’s argument has been that for-
eign capital is welcome when it provides
new know-how and the industrial expan-
sion that Australia cannot provide from
its own resources, but that this capital
adds nothing when it merely takes over
existing Australian capacity.
It would seem that in blasting Holt
on what he believes to be a highly vul-
nerable spot as far as Holt is concerned,
McEwen could be sponsoring indirectly
moves to get himself made Prime Minis-
ter in succession to Menzies or advanc-
ing the claims of Liberals other than Holt
such as Hasluck. Hasluck with his pre-
occupation with External Affairs would
probably suit McEwen as Liberal Leader
and possibly even as Prime Minister. He
would look after the overseas side of
things; McEwen would look after the
home matters. It would be an ideal ar-
rangement which could be bettered only
if McEwen were himself Prime Minister.
Personally, I think McEwen has aban-
doned any ambition he may have once
had to be Prime Minister in succession
to Menzies. For a while after 1961 he
looked as though he might be a possi-
bility. But my impression is that he now
wants to be recorded in the history books
as the man under whom the Country
Party was rejuvenated many of the
recruits he has brought into the Country
Party Parliamentary group over recent


SipTO&aft
OVGNR SWOKtRS
Schtmmeipenninck
Con Mil Amores
(Actual size)
in tins of 10, 22/6.
Scliimmelpenninck
CIGARS
Hollands finest
cigars now available
in Australia
Try Schimmelpenninck soon.
One cigar will tell you.
Schimmelpenninck cigars are imported for your
pleasure by Rothmans of Pall Mall ( Aust .)
Limited sole Australian agent for
Schimmelpenninck—Sigarenfabrieken
V/H Geurts & Van Schuppen N.V. Wageningen
Holland.
RFMIIB
years have been relatively young men,
some in their thirties and as the man
who started the movement to preserve
Australia’s resources from absorption by
overseas finance.
McEwen may be exerting a subtle
psychological pressure for Menzies to
stay on as Prime Minister and in politics
after his seventeenth year the year
Menzies once nominated himself as his
year for retirement. McEwen could be
doing this by emphasising that if Men-
zies goes the strain between the Liberal
and Country Parties could grow and
even reach the intensity of 1941 when it
brought about the downfall of a non-
Labor government. McEwen may be
hoping that if Menzies stays on in poli-
tics, an alternative to Holt as Menzies’
successor could emerge even though a
study of the government’s front and back
benches suggests that Menzies’ stay in
politics would have to be a prolonged
one as there is nobody outstandingly
superior to Holt, either in the ministry
or the back benches. .
If Menzies went within an apprecianle
period Holt would almost certainly get
the Liberal leadership and with it the
Prime Ministership. He would also get
the headache of tens.’ Liberal-Country
Party relationships. H° might be able *o
grapple successfully with this problem;
it has to be remembered that his repu-
tation stood very high when as Minister
for Labor and Immigration he dealt with
people and not things. It is only since
he has been in the Treasury, when he
has had to deal with things in their most
complex form, that he has miscalled so
many shots and that his reputation has
suffered a series of setbacks from which
it has never really recovered. As Prime
Minister, again dealing with people rather
than things, he could possibly recapture
some of the touch he once had.
If Holt went in as Prime Minister and
leader, Labor Minister McMahon would
probably go in as Deputy Libera] Leader
and Treasurer. NSW has always been
peeved about Victorian dominance in
the Libera] Party a..d McMahon has
served a long and exacting apprentice-
ship before rising to his present position
as senior NSW Federal Minister. He
could prove to be a better Treasurer than
Holt though he is untested as yet in this
field. But he is less impressed than Holt
with departmental judgments and is pre-
pared to follow his own beliefs when he
thinks there are principles at stake. He
also has a very real appreciation—which
stems from his years as Labor Minister
—of how closely political survival in
Australia is now geared to the employ-
ment situation.
On the Country Party side McEwen
might also decide to pull out if Menzies
called it a day. McEwen was born in
1900. His health has not been the best.
He works himself mercilessly. While he
would undoubtedly miss the excitement
of politics he seems to love it for
its own sake —he has undoubted-
ly been grooming young men such as
Interior Minister Doug. Anthony and
Social Services Minister lan Sinclair,
both still in their thirties, as successors.
If he thought he could not work with
Holt he might prefer to pull out before
his youthful potential successors were
fully trained rather than contribute to a
1939-1941 position of Liberal-Country
Party friction that could bring a Left-
wing Labor administration to power as
the alternative government.
For Labor Menzies’ departure from
the political scene which he has dom-
inated for so long represents fresh op-
portunity. The present Federal Labor
leader, Arthur Calwell, appears to have
abandoned hope of defeating Menzies
for the Prime Ministership. But he seems
to be hanging on to the Labor leadership
in the belief that he could beat Holt
for that position. Calwell might be too
optimistic. In its present disorganised
state it would seem that Labor’s sole
chance for forming a government is for
the Liberal-Country Party coalition to
disintegrate, which it would have to do
pretty quickly if the effects of the dis-
integration were to be felt while Cal-
wel! was still Labor leader.
But while Calwell might not be able
to beat Holt he is probably too iden-
tified. in the eves of an electorate, forty
per cent of which will, by 1966, he
under 40 years of age, with a vanished
breed of pre-war politician it will
give others in the Labor Party what they
believe to be greater opportunity for
electoral success. For example, the ALP
Left-wing does not rate highly the pros-
pects of its favorite Dr Cairns defeating
Sir Robert Menzies, even if he can win
the Labor leadership. But they do rate
him a good chance of beating Harold
Holt.
The ALP Left wing is quite happy to
preserve Calwell as Labor leader while
Sir Robert continues as Prime Minister,
as the longer they can defer a show-
down with the ALP Right wing, the bet-
ter will be their prospects of ultimately
getting Dr Cairns into the leadership.
But once Sir Robert goes they will be
anxious to get Calwell out and Cairns
in. They do not wan* Cairns to face a
Holt possibly fortified with an election
under his belt and a successful term be-
hind him as Prime Minister.
Big things will happen when Menzies
goes. Such a dominating figure as ne
cannot disappear without the repercus-
sions being considerable. The interesting
thing is that the repercussions will be at
least as large and possibly larger in the
Country and Labor Parties as they are
in the Liberal Party.


AROUND MELBOURNE
Like When King Edward Abdicated
Norm Smith's grand old flag
Melbourne it has been a terrible
week. I won't forget a conversa-
tion I had with a distinguished MCC
member. It was on the Toorak tram
and he said: “I couldn’t sleep. It was
3 a.m. so I decided to tune into the
news. The announcer said that Norm
Smith had been sacked. I had an awful
feeling in my stomach. Remember
when King Edward abdicated? It was
just like that, I couldn't believe it. I
thought there must be a mistake, so I
lay awake until the 4 a.m. news. They
repeated it again and I felt I just had
to wake up my wife and tell her
what happened.”
You must appreciate that squabbles
in football clubs are entirely normal.
One rather expects regular battles in
clubs like Fitzroy, North Melbourne
et alia, but not in the Melbourne
Cricket Club Football Club. The MFC
is like the Royal and Ancient in golf
and perhaps even more important
than the All England Tennis Club in
tennis. It has been charged that the
MCC members are even too superior
to barrack at football matches. In
moments of extreme emotion they
merely allow their cigars to glow red-
der. This is untrue MCC members
can be uncommonly eloquent.
You see, the MCC invented the
game. In 1856. Mr T. W. Wills, the
20-year-old MCC secretary, wrote to
“Bell’s Life”, the sporting paper of the
day, suggesting that the club should
play football to keep the cricketers fit
in the winter. Wills, an old Rugby
man, educated at Rugby no less,
wanted a different game. He didn’t
want any of his precious cricketers
damaged on the hard grounds by the
dangerous Rugby tackle. In 1858 the
club began, then in 1889 when it was
in Korman-like financial trouble, the
Cricket Club committee took over
completely and it became what it still
is, the Melbourne Cricket Club Foot-
ball Club, to give it the full, barely
used title. So it has had something of
a silver-tail edge in distinction and it
has always attracted the boys from
Melbourne Grammar.
Hence the shock. We won’t go into
all the tedious details that led to the
dismissal of Norm Smith, the most
successful coach the code has seen.
More interesting is the effect this
had on Melbourne. Norm Smith has
been writing for “Truth”, so the vir-
tual Norm Smith issue of July 31 re-
ported that on Tuesday the telephone
at the Smith menage rang once every
three minutes.
But perhaps our saddest moment
came when Melbourne was beaten by
lowly North Melbourne on the Satur-
day afternoon. Norman Smith, for the
first time in 31 years, was at home
listening to the game on the radio.
The “Sun News Pictorial” reported:
“His dramatic sacking the night before
hung over the ground like a shroud.”
As North Melbourne ran up the goals,
the grief-stricken Melbourne suppor-
ters called out, “Play for Norm. Play
for Norm.” However, it was hard to
sec the logic in this. Had they played
as fiercely as of yoT& they would have
proved that Norm wasn't necessary,
anyway.
HThe newspaper coverage was com-
A plete with front page leads, back
page leads, inside obituaries on
Norm’s career. But Norm refused to
make any comment. He was under
contract to GTV-9, too, so he saved
himself until Tony Charlton's sports
show on the Sunday morning. This
was the sport story of the year and
Norm was offered up to £lOOO to
switch his allegiance to other channels.
However, he remained loyal. “The
Age” reported the entire long inter-
view almost verbatim, giving it the
same transcript treatment that they
gave to Sir Robert's Press conferences.
There were some quotes worth pre-
serving: “There is only one way l will
ever go back to Melbourne if those
men offer themselves for election . . .
but I don't think they will. They sit
back and they're smug. They don't
even approach me. I said to the presi-
dent the other night, ‘You went to a
public school and I went to a State
school, but they still spell principle the
same way. And it is the principle for
which I am fighting.’ Did you ever eat
humble pie? It's got an awful taste.”
By Monday it seemed that Norm
would go to Richmond. The situation
was ideal. Richmond’s former coach,
Norm’s brother Len, had resigned
after two recent heart attacks. Len
wanted Norm to take over. Yet at
their committee meeting on Monday
night Richmond didn't even discusss
the matter. There was a good reason.
Ibis season Richmond was brought in
to share the use of the Melbourne
C ricket Ground. They play there on
alternate Saturdays and they are even
known as the junior “demons”. At
this stage* Richmond would be the
last to want to offend their new land-
lord.
It was agreed everywhere that boats
had been irretrievably burned and
Norm Smith was right out. Then, glory
be, Smith had a two-and-a-half hour
interview with the club committee on
Tuesday night and, without giving
any reasons, he was suddenly reinsta-
ted.
Once again “The Age” gave the
transcript of a Charlton-Smith GTV-9
interview. Quotable quotes. Charlton:
“It’s a compliment to you both. As the
old song goes. ‘lt's a grand old flag
again’?”
Smith: “Yes, I think it is a grand
old flag. No person is more pleased
than myself for Melbourne is my life.
I only hope that I can continue and
that the club can have continued suc-
cess. It is not a coach’s effort it is
not a team effort it’s an all round
cfiort.”
Yet the same day that we solved
this little problem, Carl Ditterich, 19,
“the blond bombshell”, the St Kilda
ruckman and the idol of hundreds of
thousands, was suspended for four
matches by the Tribunal. A football
season in Melbourne is very hard on
the emotions.
BATMAN


The Professor’s Lucky Dip
Modern writers and ancient enmities
By CHARLES HIGHAM
anyone who has spent the best
years of his life exploring the
murky labyrinths of the romantic
imagination, Professor Mario Praz,
author of “The Romantic Agony”,
turned out to be astonishingly cheerful,
4 Crumpled lozenge of engaging malice
in an old-fashioned three-piece suit. He
\vas, of course, to be found in a small
back room at the Belvedere: can there,
one wonders, be an international literary
figure who hasn’t heard of Sydney’s
answer to the Algonquin? He was
brightly flattering about Australian uni-
versifies; his own in Rome was, by con-
trast, so small and overcrowded. “I was
quite overawed by Monash, the Univer-
slty of New South Wales, the ANU . . .
of course I had been to the University
in Mexico City so I had seen something
comparable before . . .”
, T . . , . ■, i . t • A
He reminisced happily about his most
, , . , , r. 7 , , , , .
celebrated work, which had made him
- .. c , .
world famous almost overnight in the
f rly thirties. The idea for The
Romannc Agony came to me in a flash
like a novel, he said. In Italian it
11 j <n i. n a , ~ x-k -i
was called Flesh, Death and the Devil
L r, . • t • l 55? n . /—i ■,
s *° man “' Literature. But Gerard
Hopkins at Oxford University Press had
given it the more decorous name. It
appeared” his eyes twinkled with
cynical mischief—“by great good fortune
when there was a revival of interest in
the works of the Marquis de Sade.” (The
book exhaustively analysed sadism and
masochism in 19th-century fiction and
poetry.)
On the whole this book, and his others,
notably “The House of Life”, a reminis-
cence and reflection centred on his
famous apartment in Rome, a triumph
of taste in antique furniture, had-, he said,
been on the whole well received, notably
by the American critic Edmund Wilson,
But Angus was not so kind. “In a rather
malevolent review of ‘The House of Life’
he called ‘The Romantic Agony’ a lucky
dip for undergraduates. And Cyril
Connolly in ‘The Sunday Times’ of Sep-
tember 20th last”—significantly, Praz had
remembered the exact date “called
‘The House of Life’ the dullest book he
had ever read . . . ‘What a lucky thing
collectors are never authors,’ Cyril Con-
nolly wrote. And he called the book
‘The House of Death’.
He quoted a part of the book in
,• , T *u .u + £ . ,
which I told the story of a writing-desk,
Uo •, T „f n tt i • v , ✓
He said I was full of fulminating cliches,
j had come across c n C onnolly”-
, he Pro£essor , s sharpened _ “on
• A . f
one occasion. At Venice, for a meet-
• x T r>i u
mg of the P.E.N. Club,
„ Mr Connol | had been served a dish
which he did not |ike He expressed
his discontem by weepim; ... he was so
much of a gourmet that he could not
bear it ... it was, as I recall, a course
of scampi . . .
“This man had dulled his brain, you
“You con come out now, Dibley, I've got him."
see, by too much eating ... he used io
go to gourmandising parties in France
. . . I recall they used to drink pernod
one bottle after the other ... I knew
a girl who went to one of those parties,
she saw a cupboard opening and the
hangers coming out and walking across
the room. . . . that was how it affected
her . . . and then Cyril Connolly reviews
my book . . .
“Edmund Wilson told me he must
have been jealous of my collection . . .
I wrote to Mr Connolly. I said. ‘What is
life to one person is death to another.’
He had claimed that I had been super-
ficial in my fixation with furniture . . .
He wanted me to be Freudian against
myself ... I told him I was shocked
that the of ‘The Unquiet Grave’
could descend to such phrases as ‘ful-
minating cliches’.”
Turning with some effort to other
modern authors, Professor Praz said he
had been aware of a vein of masochism
—carefully traced through 19th-century
literature in his “Romantic Agony”
continuing today. “I find it in Le Clezio’s
book, ‘The Interrogation’.” And sadism,
in Angus Wilson. “There are strains of
sadism in his work: oh. yes. narticularly
in ‘Anglo-Saxon Attitudes’. He is always
heaping on the charity. But he isn’t
charitable at all, quite the opposite,
though he pretends to be . . .
“And Ivy Compton-Burnett, there's
sadism in her work, too, a good deal
of it . . . and cruelty, too. in Tennessee
Williams ... all that gloating over faded
women ending tragically their lives . . .
a combination of a characteristic attrac-
tion-repulsion for old ladies, elderly
persons, and at the same time cutting
against such people . . .”
What were his views of modern art?
“Its tendency is to the destruction of art.
When you don’t transform matter, and
merely give brute matter as art it is the
end of art . . . assemblages, pop art . . .
when you laboriously reconstruct an
advertisement of toothpaste that is the
end ... it all happened in movements
like Dada . . . there has been no progress
whatsoever . . . and poets like Raymond
Queneau, taking lines of poetry and cut-
ting them into pieces, pasting them on
bits of paper . . .”
Had the Professor read any modern
poetry, for instance? “One poem, by an
American person of extreme beatnik
tendency. It was called U.” What?
“U-G-H,” the Professor spelled the word
out deliberately, letter by letter, as he
rose to say goodbye.


w
* ■
/ ; #\
' X'
/!\ ''X N <
m
oj?ss&'X
XX
v.m
■1
■
1
XX
« »•
w \
1
*t
i \X \
XX \ ';
**- m\ N
1
H
in
. •
mm^ssss^sssm
: vsiPlllSilil
M I
■tm
m&z amm
m
iiiiill
/
. 1
1
! W m~fi
m
iMi X
m *3
*1
.'X
r--x
V '•••■■<.
/
~..x
to
Xi
:?::: sx : ifS:i::ii
SSXXisSiK;
'i .i
: If,/
-V-v
/
„«/
THE INTERNAL PHONE WITH THE EXPANDING FUTURE
In thousands of building and rebuilding projects throughout Aus-
tralia, prime consideration is being given to provision for potential
growth. One important aspect is the inevitably required expansion
of telephone facilities within an organisation. The STC PAX
provides the most economical, most efficient, solution to this vital
problem.
STC PAX systems commence where required, with a basic 10 line
system, available in one compact unit. When further lines are
needed the system can be quickly and economically developed to
accommodate them.
Further, tie lines can be used to connecttogethertwo PAX systems
thus providing complete intercommunication between all exten-
sions of both. Special facilities such as central dictation, loud
speaking telephones, secretarial system, full range of modern
lightweight coloured handsets are also included in the economical
STC PAX.
An important feature is that STC PAX provides fully automatic
inter-communication between extensions with complete secrecy.
Executive priority is provided for selected extensions.
Forfurther information on STC PAX contact Standard Telephones
and Cables Pty. Limited, 252 Botany Road, Alexandria, Sydney,
Phone: 69 0444 • Melbourne 44 5161 • Canberra 9 1043.
Distributors: QLD: Fred Hoe & Sons, Brisbane. 4 1771. S.A.:
Unbehaun & Johnstone Pty. Ltd., Adelaide. 51 3731. W.A.: M. J.
Bateman Pty. Ltd., Perth. 21 6461. TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty.
Ltd., Launceston 2 2231, Hobart, Burnie, Devonport.
AN
ITT
ASSOCIATE
worldwide telecommunications and electronics
MIB2C


don’t be
vague
ask for
Over 300 years’ experience has
produced the mellow, golden
perfection of Haig Scotch
Whisky.
If you happen, not to be a
regular drinker of Haig, when
next you order Scotch, be sure
to mention our name.
There’s a rare treat in
store for you.
S@tB_LABEi
JoMet HAjfiACal^
f *****
HAIG SAUCE
for Shrimps, Prawns, Crab, Lob-
stei and Scampi. Mix 1/3 cream,
1/3 tomato v .etchup, 1/3 Haig
with a dash of Worcester sauce.
Good with hard-boiled eggs, too!
The Oldest Name
In
Scotch Whisky
FAMOUS SINCE 1627
8.1. 64
ON THE MARGIN
And a Happy July ’65 -June ’66
Several parties were given in Sydney
to celebrate the end of the last
financial year. As well as providing a
gay evening, they signified a new and
realistic shift in modern thinking. More
people are coming to recognise that the
changeover of the financial year is a
better excuse for revelry than the advent
of January 1.
New Year’s Eve has always been a
rather futile binge. It is kept going by
tl\e optimism of the human race the
pathetic hope that next year things will
be better. This spirit was expressed by
Tennyson in his lines:
Ring out the old. ring in the new;
Ring, happy bells, across the snow;
The year is going, let him go;
Ring out the false, ring in the true.
Unfortunately, one finds next morning
that except for a hangover everything
is much the same as before. In the re-
tail trade things are worse
than before the big
Christmas turnover is fol-
lowed by a slack period
when customers can only
be attracted by ridiculous
bargains. Tennyson was
out of touch with the re-
tail trade.
The Scots set the pace
in New Year's Eve fes-
tivities, for which they
provided the theme-song
Auld Lang Syne. But
this has not happened because the Scots
take any special interest in January 1 as
a date; it is because, in their bleak winter,
they welcome a pretext for getting tight.
In practical terms the appearance of a
New Year number on the calendar means
no more than another 000 on the mile-
age counter in the car. If anything it
has the same kind of dispiriting signifi-
cance. It marks a further stage in your
personal depreciation with the dif-
ference that you cannot trade yourself in
on a new model (or even buy spare
parts).
But seeing the old financial year out
and the new one in is something else.
Here we are not dealing with mere dates
but with money. This is the time for the
closing of books and _ the taking of
stocks, the forming and ending of part-
nerships, the switching of advertising ac-
counts from Agency A to Agency B,
the declaration of profits and of losses,
the hatching of plots and the despatching
of tax returns.
These activities are not uniformly
joyous but they are all important. More-
over, for that large majority who under
the Pay-As-You-Earn system are privi-
ledged not only to give money to the
Government but to lend it money in-
terest-free, the turn of the financial year
brings a special cause for rejoicing. It
signals the leisurely approach of their
one and only windfall, the income-tax
refund.
I venture to predict that because of its
real significance the night of June 30
will eventually replace December 31 as
an occasion for mass revels. Without
straining credulity w'e may. look ahead
a few years to the scene at Kings Cross
when excited crowds are seeing the New
Financial Year in.
As midnight approaches, crocodiles of
taxpayers in funny hats are dancing
along Darlinghurst Road, singing: “Give
Me Monev. That’s What
I Want”.
A group of merrymak-
ers clusters round a car
where a managing direc-
tor is handing out free
drinks: “Sbeena wonder-
ful year,” he says. “Rec-
ord losses —big takeover
bids for company . .
Shrieks of laughter are
heard as some taxation
consultants throw a preUy
comptometrist into a
fountain.
Police are handling the crowds good-
humoredly. The inspector-in-charge tells
reporters: ‘'They’re noisy but they're not
giving much trouble. A few of the ac-
countants got out of hand. But you can’t
blame them for letting off steam. They’ve
got some heavy auditing ahead.” A con-
stable climbs a lamp-post after a young
stockbroker who is throwing confetti.
On the stroke of twelve bedlam breaks
out inventory clerks twirl rattles
ships on the Harbor blow sirens
actuaries throw hungers. Company sec-
retaries seize female taxpayers and kiss
them warmly.
Shareholders are shouting: “Happy
New Financial Year!” and linking arms
for the singing of Auld Lang Syne. It
is a characteristic scene of wholesome
Australian fun, for which Tennyson
might have found words:
Ring out the near-insolvency,
Ring out the fading bonus hopes;
Ring in the refund envelopes,
'Ring in the dividends to be.
ROSS CAMPBELL"


World of Mindless Blockbusters
And defiance with a hand-held camera
By CHARLES HIGHAM
A glimpse, before reaching Holly-
wood, of the “other” American
cinema and its nucleus: the Berke-
ley home of Ernest Callenbach, editor
of the leading US motion picture maga-
zine, “Film Quarterly”, who is current-
ly cutting a film of the student “teach-
ins” at the nearby University of Cali-
fornia. Here, in the unkempt backwaters
of San Francisco, the experimental film
makers have managed to keep going in
defiance of the “official” cinema farther
down the coast. Working as petrol-sta-
tion attendants, wharf laborers or night
drivers, they have poured their savings
into 16 or 8 m.m. films in which their
private worlds are relentlessly exploded
with hand-held cameras.
At a causerie with Callenbach and
friends, the word about Hollywood is ex-
cessively gloomy: no new mavericks or
interest, the industry’s hopes of Pay-
TV temporarily defeated (although Holly-
wood, I discover later, is fighting back),
and the Hollywood Museum project,
dream-child of the unlikely matching of
Sol Lesser, producer of the “Tarzan”
pictures, and Arthur Knight, middlebrow
critic of “The Saturday Review”, found-
ered in a welter of accusations about un-
explained disposals of funds. From this
first day of a month-long Californian
visit, the Hollywood scene threatens to
be as drab and sad as San Francisco it-
self . . .
★ ★ ★
Hollywood. Immediately you pick up
the phone, you get the feeling of the
place: icily impersonal telephonists’
voices, indistinguishable from the
mechanical ones which constantly inter-
rupt the caller, telling him he has in-
correctly dialled, or that he must wait
until someone is ready to answer him.
And at the coffee-shop at breakfast, the
tall waitress behind the counter, slam-
ming down the opaque ice-water and the
sausage - and - scrambled, has the high,
piled hair, freezing jocularity and savage
line in wise-cracks of the young Susan
Hayward . . .
★ ★ ★
In mid-summer, as a brief discovering
walk discloses, Hollywood is cold and
grey, as forbidding as London: only the
tall palms over the parking lots, the pink
Bondi stucco of the Hotel Hastings, the
gigantic blue sign bidding you to take
the white steamship to Catalina, and the
rows of grubby coral-and-bronze stars
set into the pavements, containing the
names of Hollywood's old stars, have an
authentic note of strangeness. Last night,
as I came into the hotel, I walked over
Hedda Hopper, and Barbara Stanwyck’s
agent tells me on the telephone, “Go
right back, honey, and do it over . .
And now a phone conversation with
Hedda herself: “Yes, dear, but I’m not
sure if I can see you! I’m going to Lon-
don for three weeks next Thursday! For
the first time in my life I’m letting some-
one else do my writing for me! You’re
from Australia, you say! You know, I’ve
heard so much about your country from
Bob Hope! If he’ll go with me I’m going
to your Melbourne Cup race! They tell
me New Zealand is a different country!
What’s that? What? It is ? And they say
it’s a welfare state . . . how can that
be? How can New Zealand be a welfare
state ? You'll tell me if I meet you?
You’re putting the pressure on me, boy!
You’re putting the pressure on me!” But
she does, finally, ask me to her house
the following night.
★ ★ ★
At Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, still the
most opulent and confident of the old-
time studios, gloomy thoughts about
Hollywood are temporarily cast aside. A
list of 18 productions greets you from a
billboard as you enter the gate from the
highway, including at least two that
promise well: “A Patch of Blue”, direct-
ed by David Leon’s old cameraman Guy
Green from “Be Ready With Bells and
Drums” by the Scottish-Australian Eliza-
beth Kata, and Tony Richardson’s ver-
sion of “The Loved One”, with a script
by Christopher Isherwood and Terry
Southern. At last, among all the mind-
less blockbusters, a glint of quality.
And in the office of Arthur Freed,
producer of some of the screen’s most
delectable musicals (“Meet Me In St.
Louis”, “On The Town”, “Singin’ In
The Rain”), a further reassurance. Here,
the atmosphere is totally civilised. Picas-
sos glowing on the walls and the shine
of bright company as Vincente Minnelli,
doyen of directors of musicals, and Roger
Edens, arranger and composer of genius,
come in and take their seats. Minnelli,
with his restless, haunted, hyperthalmic
eyes and tense, frail body, still manages
to exude an air of considerable culture
and charm utterly removed from the con-
ventional image of Hollywood, and
Edens obviously shares his enthusiasm
for the new project they are discussing,
“Say It With Music”, a re-creation in
dance and song of the great era of Irv-
ing Berlin, who is also involved in the
production. It is the morning of the big
Cape Kennedy countdown and as the
announcer’s voice grates across the room,
the collaborating geniuses snap their
fingers. They will open the picture with
a musical count-down, running the num-
bers across the bottom of the screen . ..
★ ★ ★
In a long, golden twilight, a drive
through elegant, palm-lined streets to the
Tropical Avenue home of Hedda Hop-
per, doyenne of Hollywood columnists,
staunch Republican, and scourge of Hol-
lywood Communism. I arrive with Bob
Vogel of M-G-M three minutes before
the appointed time, knock and ring the
doorbell: no answer. Time to look at the
initials “H.H.” on the welcome mat, and
the house itself: modest and neat, white
clapboard front, pale blue roof, and
oleander bushes and pencil pines fram-
ing the door.
Then, at the exact moment we are in-
vited and not a second sooner, the door
opens and there she is; one can almost
imagine her standing just inside with a
stopwatch. The first thing one notices
are the hands: wonderfully delicate and
long, with a splendid ring consisting of
a cluster of diamonds and pearls. The
face is fair-skinned and still, in her sev-
enties, as pretty as a fox; she wears a
massive, wide, shallow, black-and-white
hat with a dangerous brim.
Inside, the house has the velvety, plush
cosiness of a jewel-box; I notice in the
toilet a pink paper rose the size of a
prize-winning cauliflower and, on the
floor of her exquisite powder-room, a
skyscraper of long-playing records; the
walls are decorated with framed French
calendar leaves.
Proudly she points out after serving


Dry, precise copies from all colours and originals
- :
IB
1
II
=**■
I
if 1
m
I
ill
mZ
'■‘•'•tv
I
t'ssgaaera
.
sii
::
SI::::; 5
'M
; •.•••;•
■
ii
mm
ills
&
%
Mpm * m
iliSilll
\
! ib. ■
EjsL 1
ilviaiplilii
{fi.l.V" •’ ;! r ‘ ,_ h r
fc :
Hi. .
‘ ■ -
■ :; '
- L :■ ,I':''". ■
toil '■ r ' - I 1 ."'" 1 ' '
.-rf I '■•
i!
1:11
M
■
This new 3M Brand Dry Photo-Copier
needs no inks, chemicals or powders . . .
yet every copy is a precise reproduction of
the original on white dry bond-weight paper.
This compact typewriter-sized copier pro-
duces perfect copies from originals of all
colours: business letters, blueprints, price
sheets, illustrations, “spirit” copies and
even full-colour pages in bound books and
magazines.
For full information on this machine and
the 3M range of Copying Systems, mail
this coupon, or contact:
BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS CENTRE
miNNESDTA miNING AND MANUFACTURING [AUSTRALIA] PTY. LTD.
• Sydney, 43-0455 • Melbourne, 61-3841 • Adelaide,
51-5971 • Brisbane, 5-4131 • Perth, 28-4651 • Hobart,
3-3104 • Canberra, 4-0791 • Auckland, 295-109.
3M Business Communications Centre, Alderson
Building, Pacific Highway, St. Leonards, N.S.W.
Please send me full details of the 3M Brand Dry
Photo-Copier and the 3M range of Copying
Systems.
NAME
ADDRESS
3M2/ 18 / <
3m


Have you
ever
smoked
a
Panatella ?
Those who have
know what a fine
cigar it can be
—if it’s a Henri
Wintermans.
Made from the
best tobaccos
obtainable, rolled
by experts in
Holland to give
you the fine, mild
but satisfying
smoking expected
of the world’s
finest cigars. Ask for
Henri Wintermans’ Panatellas
Australia’s
most popular
imported
cigars.
'PANATELLAS are
1/4 each. Pocket
packs of 5 for
6/8 or drum of
25 for 33/-.
r HENRI X
UINTEKM.WS/
■rm
SA79/1
Scotch in blue glasses from a mirrored
recess in the wall the presents of half
a lifetime: miniature paintings done for
her by Mary Martin, Dorothy Kingsley,
and the Australian dress-designer Orry-
Kelly, a friend of many years. “And
here” we are in the living-room “is
my memory corner.” Photographs from
Presidents signed in her honor, an auto-
graphed picture of Winston Churchill, a
framed “Time” cover which Boris Chalia-
pin did of her in the ’forties. She even
keeps an autograph book with the names
of the famous, a habit, I later discover,
shared by Mary Pickford . . .
Further on in the evening, after a visit
to the Screen Directors’ Guild to see a
preview of the new Taylor-Burton film
“The Sandpiper”, the name of Mary
Pickford comes up at her house. “Forest
Lawn called me and told me I could
rest in peace next to her for 42,000 dol-
lars. That was when I decided to send
my remains to my undertaking cousin,
Kenton R. Miller, of Martinsburg,
Pennsylvania.”
It was easy to see Hedda Hopper’s
bitter regret for the ’thirties, for the days
when Hollywood was indeed or at
least confidently thought it was the
centre of the entertainment world. Now
the Communists had moved back in,
and the homosexuals . . . nothing was
as it had been. “You know they paid
the Unfriendly Ten compensation
money! You know that! And I had to
pay Wilding money!” (In an out-of-court
settlement, recent Press reports had it,
for calling Michael Wilding a homosexual
in her latest book.) She regretted the
“fun” times of the ’thirties and earlier,
and was off on a memory flight. “Bob,
you remember that time when Laurence
Tibbett God, we had fun in those
days! got up to sing at a dawn cere-
mony at Forest Lawn and we all went!
Well, somebody released a flock of white
doves, and they crapped over the con-
gregation . . .”
Old-fashioned love
VText afternoon, a spectacular drive
down beetling sandstone cliffs front-
ing the ocean to the home of Joseph
Cotten, graduate of Orson Welles’ Mer-
cury Theatre, durable star of thrillers
and love stories; now, more often, a
character actor of great skill (“Hush,
Hush, Sweet Charlotte”). He greets us at
his front door, a tall, powerful man with
polished scarlet cheeks, wearing a yacht-
ing jacket. The house, tall and cool, is
decorated with antique mirrors and in-
numerable china figures of harlequins,
columbines and other Commedia dell’arte
figures in niches, glass cupboards, or
on tables; outside, an ornamental ter-
race drops tier on tier to the drab
Pacific. The swimming-pool is sunk into
a music-room, with chandeliers, each
piece of colored Venetian glass selected
and hung by Cotten himself, hanging
over the still green water.
Over cocktails, Cotten regrets the pas-
sing of the old-fashioned love-story, the
kind of film which (“September Affair”
and “Love Letters” are typical examples)
he appeared in at Paramount more than
15 years ago. “I remember I was read-
ing through Sam Taylor’s play ‘Sabrina
Fair’ when I was going to star in it on
the stage some years ago. I said to Sam,
but there’s no love scene . . . authors are
scared of putting love scenes in . . .
they’re afraid people will think them un-
sophisticated . . .”
Much the same note was struck next
day by Clarence Brown, most celebrated
of box-office directors of the ’thirties (he
guided Garbo through her best roles in-
cluding “Anna Karenina” and “Marie
Walewska”), creator of two great Ameri-
can regional films, “Of Human Hearts”
and “Ah, Wilderness”, and now a fab-
ulously wealthy owner of real estate (he
also owns a sizeable chunk of the Bev-
erly Wilshire Hotel, where he gave me
lunch). Brown, who retired 12 years ago,
hasn’t even seen a picture since then; the
cinema he knew has vanished, and he
can’t be bothered looking for something
nowadays that doesn’t exist.
He spoke with affection of the past,
of the traditions of craftsmanship and
of the feeling for the American regional
scene which had disappeared in the last
decade. And there was the constant prob-
lem of nowadays audience appeal.
“The worst kind of problem I’d have
in those days was hiding Clark Gable’s
jug ears, Garbo’s great height, Myrna
Loy’s huge legs (I saw a woman with
big legs not long ago in an hotel: I said
to myself, ‘I know those legs’, and I
wasn’t surprised when I saw the name
Myrna Loy outside the theatre next
door), Tyrone Power’s fat fanny and
peculiar walk, Norma Shearer’s cross-
eyes . .
Brown didn’t, of course, understand the
new wave of British and European pic-
tures, and indeed had never returned to
Britain since they once cruelly sent him
up. “It was when Garbo was touring
Europe with Stokowski and the Press
asked me whether they were going to
get married ... I mispronounced Sto-
kowski’s name and they made fun of
me. And his name was really Stokes!”
Genial and gracious, glowing with wealth
and good cheer, Clarence Brown is the
kind of Hollywood craftsman of whom
there are fewer and fewer in the indus-
try; we probably shan’t see his like
again.


Breaking the
Language Barrier
The Cowra outbreak, through Japanese and Australian eyes
By HUGH V. CLARKE
I first met Inspector Takeo Yamashita
of the Osaka Police Force at an
official reception in Japan last year.
He spoke no English and my Japanese
was a long-disused brand of pidgin
reluctantly acquired some 20 years
before, so that our conversation was car-
ried on through a patient interpreter.
Since we had both been prisoners-of-
war —he with the Australians and 1
with the Japanese and had both pub-
lished books based on our experiences,
we soon found ourselves on common
ground. Eventually Inspector Yamashita
got around to the subject of the outbreak
at Cowra in August, 1944, when 1104
well-cared-for Japanese prisoners burnt
their huts and made a suicidal attack on
their guards. The mass escape attempt,
which began in the early hours of a
moonlit morning, ended with 231
prisoners dead by daylight and the re-
mainder soon rounded up on the open
rolling farmlands surrounding Cowra.
I was astonished when he agreed
enthusiastically with my somewhat reck-
less suggestion that we write a joint
book on Cowra. By revealing the motives
for the Japanese attack and the Aus-
tralian attitude to it we thought we might
be able to make some small contribution
to Japanese-Australian understanding.
The idea sounded simple in the cock-
tail atmosphere where it was’ conceived
but translating it into a book became a
supreme test of patience and persistence.
Most of the Japanese prisoners at
Cowra had been recorded under false
names, but on being repatriated to Japan
in April, 1946, they had reintroduced
themselves to each other under their
real names. Then and there, however,
their former comradeship ceased and
they dispersed into silence. Many
believed there was still a likelihood that
they would be shot or at least publicly
disgraced, and in a few country districts
they were, in fact, badly treated. Some
of them changed their names and for
nearly 20 years concealed the fact that
they had ever been captured.
Yamashita had spent his entire cap-
tivity in the Celebes, but in 1963 he came
to Australia and visited the war cemetery
at Cowra. He afterwards wrote to the
Cowra policeman who helped him: “. . .
I knew those dead prisoners had been
using false names, so I copied the names
which were on the graves . . . M. Watan-
abe, W. Yano, M. Sato ... I could
decipher only 61 names. The others
were obliterated by the weather of 20
years, and almost half of them were
unknown Japanese soldiers. War leaves
us nothing, only vanity.
“Those men left this world, still veiling
their identity under false names. There
is no knowing whose husbands or whose
fathers they were. Whatever was in their
innermost minds, death was what they
had sought.
“I found a flower of Patterson’s Curse
there and it was beautiful . . . Back in
Japan I searched for Cowra survivors
and met several of them who told me
why they started the riot and what they
think of Australia now.
“The day before yesterday, August 5,
1964, commemorating the riot which
broke out in Cowra 20 years ago, I, with
some survivors, held a service for the
benefit of the souls of the departed
Cowra Japanese at a Buddhist temple.
“We all agreed that we should express
our heartfelt gratitude to the Australians
for the kind treatment given to them in
those days . . .”
Humane treatment
amashita found two men from Cowra
A willing to have their stories pub-
lished and thus former Sergeant Tama-
gawa and Superior Private Suzuki be-
came part of our joint book. This
willingness to talk about things pre-
viously considered too shameful to
mention could be the sign of coming
changes in national attitudes. Already an
association of former Cowra prisoners
has over 250 members who say they are
grateful for the humane treatment which
enabled them to survive and return to
normal happy lives.
Of 5637 Japanese prisoners held in
Australia during the war a total of 314
died, including the 231 deaths from the
Cowra outbreak and 43 suicides. In the
back of my mind, as I approached my
part of the joint project, was an aware-
ness that 7777 Australians had died as
prisoners in Japanese hands, one third of
the total number taken. These men died
without the aid of suicidal attacks.
I was also conscious of the contrast
between my recent comfortable nine-hour
trip from Sydney to Tokyo, and my
previous journey from Singapore to
Japan as a reluctant passenger in the
hold of a prison ship. The voyage had
taken nearly three months and when our
battered hulk tied up in the port of Moji
it was one of five remaining out of an
original convoy of about 20 ships. Allied
submarines had claimed the others.
My year’s work in dockyards, a coal
mine and a dynamite dump had left me
with few exciting memories, but it did
serve as a bewildering contrast to the
courtesy, kindness and generosity every-
where apparent in present-day Japan.
Back in Australia after a few further
brief meetings with Yamashita, I decided
that as good a point to start as any would
be at the scene of the riot itself. Accord-
ingly I went to Cowra, which is a friendly,
thriving town on a drowsy stretch of the
willow-fringed Lachlan River, 227 miles
west of Sydney.
Cowra has no great sense of history.
Memories of that August drama remain,
however, in the minds of the participants,
some of whom live and work in Cowra
today. The most popular theory expressed
was that the prisoners’ motive in attempt-
ing the outbreak was to rejoin Japanese
forces which they believed had landed in
Sydney.
This belief, however, is flatly contra-
dicted by all the evidence produced in
Japan by Yamashita. By living in cap-
tivity the prisoners considered that they
were bringing dishonor not only on them-
selves but on their families, too. Be-
cause they were able neither to die honor-
ably on the battlefield or return to Japan
they were left with only one alternative
death at Cowra.
By the time I left Cowra I was
conscious that feelings of common
humanity had long since swamped the
lingering animosities of war. The pre-
dominant feeling expressed by the towns-
people was compassion, and for many
years the Japanese graves have been
looked after by the Cowra Returned
Soldiers’ League.
Back in Canberra I sought permission
from the Minister for the Army to peruse
official documents relating to the out-
break, and these, including the Court of
Inquiry findings, were made available to
me. In the thousands of cold, precise
sentences which make up the official
report the most noticeable feature is
evidence of the close and searching
scrutiny directed at the actions of camp
guards before, during and after the riot.
Every possibility of provocation by Aus-
tralian guards was investigated and even
the prisoners themselves testified that
their treatment in the camp had been
humane and just.
Official expression of the growing
goodwill and understanding between
Australians and Japanese was the
approval given, in October, 1963, for
the Government of Japan to construct
a war cemetery at Cowra for the 522
Japanese nationals buried in Australia
and the exhumation and transfer of 275
bodies buried in other places. The ceme-
tery was dedicated last November.


COME TO KODAK
FOR YOUR OFFICE COPIER
See how Verifax Copiers save you money
Would you like to speed office communications . . .
simplify your paperwork ... eliminate tedious, costly
manual copying? Then take steps to the Kodak
Office Copy Centre. You’ll find the world’s most com-
plete line of office copiers there, and one of them is
perfectly suited to your particular needs.
For example, you'll see the all-new VERIFAX CAVAL-
CADE COPIER. It’s outstanding for all-around copying.
Gives you a choice of highest-quality single copies or
lowest-cost extra copies seven in a minute from
a single sheet of low-cost matrix.
See it demonstrated and see all the other copiers
at the Kodak Office Copy Centre. Call the Kodak
representative in your city for an invitation to the
centre or ask for more information and literature.
VERIFAX CAVALCADE Copier
g|i|ig
fmmmi
mmm
tri®^
ng
$
■ ■ - ' T
11
:::.'■ :
silili
wm
Kodak
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.
Branches in all States.
KM9544


THE WEEK
OVERSEAS
VIETNAM 1
Option 5
12.30 p.m. last Wednesday, 28 million
persons —or an estimated 96 per cent
of the available TV audience at that hour
had their sets turned on for President John-
son's report. What they heard most of
them with relief fell far short of the
advance speculation. The President acknow-
ledged what most Americans have felt right
along that in Vietnam "this is really war".
But he made clear that the US commitment
would continue, for the present at least, as
a controlled, "measured" operation while
efforts were pressed for a peaceful settle-
ment.
The President announced that 50,000 more
Americans had been ordered to Vietnam, to
raise the total there to 125,000. He made
clear, however, that more would follow. The
President and his aides had considered five
options. Option 1 called for nuclear war,
Option 2 called for abandonment of South
Vietnam, Option 3 for continuing at the same
level of commitment. These were rejected
early in the deliberations. Option 4 included
a Presidential address to Congress asking a
reserve call-up, probably a declaration of a
national emergency and "full funding" of the
increased effort by an appropriation of about
5000 million dollars. Option 5 called for the
limited build-up with no reserve call-up and
a request for only 1000 million to 2000 million
dollars, with probably another request next
January.
The President chose Option 5. To raise the
additional troops, he ordered a gradual
doubling of the present draft rate of 17,000
men per month. This will boost over-all
forces round the world by 330,000 men. The
total will approach 3 million for the first
time in a decade. In choosing Option 5 over
Option 4, the President was said to have
been influenced by Democratic Senate leaders
who were concerned about the military and
political dangers of escalating too rapidly,
and the possibility that a call-up of reserves
might stir a public outcry and bitter Con-
gressional debate. Other factors appeared to
be the risk of full-scale intervention by North
Vietnam and Communist China, logistic prob-
lems in South Vietnam, and the desire to
give the UN time for meditation efforts.
VIETNAM II
Talk Terms
T he new UN ploy advanced by President
Johnson raised the question of what terms
the US would accept for opening negotiations.
Basically, the Administration's position is that
the US will talk at any time to any govern-
ment on anything in a conference of equals
but there can be no pre-conditions to get-
ting the talks started. According to the "New
York Times" President Johnson went further
last week. He said he was guided by the
"purposes" of the 1954 Geneva agreements
on Indo-China not just the "essentials" of
the accords as stipulated in previous Admini-
stration statements.
This presumably meant that the Administra-
tion would accept a settlement that would
include internationally supervised elections
to achieve eventual reunification of North and
South Vietnam. Mr Johnson also said he was
willing to discuss the peace proposals of the
Hanoi regime. As proposed last April, North
Vietnam's terms included:
• Recognition of the independence and
unity of all Vietnam, a complete with-
drawal from South Vietnam and an end
of attacks on North Vietnam.
© Pending peaceful reunification, an
observance of the military provisions of
the 1954 accords forbidding military
alliances and the presence of foreign
troops.
• Arrangement of South Vietnam's internal
affairs as proposed by the National
Liberation Front, the political arm of the
Vietcong.
• Peaceful reunification "without any
foreign interference".
The US and North Vietnamese terms would
not appear to differ widely. One stumbling
block is that, as far as is known to the
Administration, Hanoi holds its proposals as
pre-conditions to getting talks going. Another
problem is that the Communists are felt to
believe they are winning the war and see no
reason to talk, at least for the present. As
for Vietcong participation in any talks an-
other Communist demand President John-
son said last week this was not "an insur-
mountable problem".
MALAYSIA
Big Fix?
•SINGAPORE'S Premier Lee Kuan Yew has
charged that Malaysian Federal leaders
sided with pro-Communist elements in an
attempt to defeat Lee’s Peoples Action Party
(PAP). Mr Lee said Malaysia's strongest
party, the United Malays National Organisa-
tion (UMNO), quietly backed the candidate
of the extreme Left-wing Barisan Socialist
Party against the PAP in a Singapore by-
election last month.
UMNO is the party of Federal Prime
Minister Tunku Abdul Rahman and the senior
member of the ruling Alliance Government.
According to Mr Lee the UMNO had expected
the Communists to crush the PAP. Then it
could crush the Communists, because there
would be no uproar against it crushing the
Communists. Mr Lee said UMNO support of
the Barisan candidate was the "beginning of
the big fix".
"We are a democratic socialist party with
world - wide connections to international
socialist and labor organisations. They know
if they crush us by undemocratic means there
will be uproar in Britain, Australia and New
Zealand who are sending troops to guard
our borders."
The Singapore leader said if the PAP
were destroyed, then the Communists would
begin a shooting war against the Alliance.
"They think they are clever. I think they are
not clever enough." The Alliance put up no
candidates in the Singapore by-election which
was won by the PAP candidate. Mr Lee said
the Malay language "Utusan Melayu" news-
paper urged the small number of Malay
voters in the Hong Lim constituency to vote
for the Barisan candidate. He added, "The
'Utusan' is pro-anyone who is anti-PAP".
Acting Prime Minister Tun Abdel Razak
denied Lee's allegations. Razak, who is vice-
president of UMNO, told newsmen, "We are
not working with any party or anybody
whether they are Communist or not. Our
party is working only for the good of the
country." Razak said, however, it was only
natural for his party to fight the PAP as it
was an opposition group.
EUROPE
Empty Chair
jtor the first time sincj the Common Market
came into being in 1958, there was a meet-
ing of the Council of Ministers in Brussels
with one of the chairs France's empty.
President Charles de Gaulle was carrying out
the boycott he had announced on July 1,
after a head-on clash with Italy, West Ger-
many and The Netherlands over the financing
of common farm programmes. All progress
toward the goal of a supranational Europe
was stopped short.
The question now was: "Would the Italian,
German and Dutch ministers yield? The
impression at the end of the day's meeting
was that they well might. The five ministers
present heard Walter Hallstein, head of the
Executive Commission, recommend a new
approach to the agricultural problem that
went far to meet President de Gaulle's
principal demands a reduction of French
financial contributions to the common agri-
cultural fund, and the staving off of supra-
national power for the Executive Commission
in the operation of the fund. There were no
objections; the ministers —agreeing they could
conduct no major business with France absent
simply adjourned.
Would President de Gaulle now end his
boycott of the Council, seeing that he
apparently could get most of what he
wanted? Next day, in a television appear-
ance, French Premier Georges Pompidou
indicated France still was not satisfied, say-
ing, "We will not agree to the whole French
economy's being directed from the outside".
The general reaction was that the French
leader seemed to be aiming at something
much broader than his stated objectives in
the farm dispute. One guess was that de
Gaulle wished the Treaty of Rome (the
Common Market's founding charter) revised
to exclude economic and political integration.
Another rumor was ' that the general was
considering a spectacular move: a proposal
that the Europe of the six be broadened to
include Britain and other Western and
maybe even Eastern European nations in a
vast free trade area.
THE US
Assembly Line
yy'HATEVER his foreign troubles. President
Johnson has been having all his own
way on the domestic front. It now looks as
if his entire legislative programme will be
completed by Labor Day (September 6) when
this session of Congress is due to end.
Measures, which only a short time ago
would have been blocked by senior con


.. szsgmik
S)
f iFJSgms?
mm&SBL
-
m
\>
\\S
s>
S>SS:
£S$
S?i
It
1
Is
1964
: v<> ’ : x : : : .' 5
ORLANDO
faro^jaHt#n|
,f ECIA LI
Y VINTACED AUSTRALIAN
181. ' : ' ”"'
..... >&&»'•;
ms
1 . ,„ .***
SSfSS
pfl«
SONS
\MP
CH
Sll
l Nil)
Nil
TOP PRIZE
WINNER FOR
TWELVE YEARS
Since its introduction in 1953, Orlando
Barossa Riesling has won more awards
than any other Australian Riesling.
One hundred and thirty-two major
awards, in fact, including Gold and
Silver Medals, Championships and Cups
*— throughout Australia and in Europe.
ILast year, its greatest honour was the
Gold Medal awarded at the International
Viticultural and Wine Fair at Mont-
pellier,, France,, world-famous centre
for wine Study and research.
Every bottle of Barossa Riesling awarded
a prize has been taken at random from
stock proof positive of the wine’s
unfailing consistency.
Two major reasons why you can rely
on Barossa Riesling are:
* It is bottled in the traditional European
amber Riesling bottle, in preference to
a green-bottle, because Riesling needs
bottle age, and amber glass keeps
out the light while the wine is aging.
* It is one of the very few Australian
Rieslings vintaged roo% from Rhine
Riesling grapes.
ORLANDO
BAROSSA
RIESLING
Prize-winning Orlando Barossa Riesling is made by
G. Gramp and Sons Pty. Ltd., in South Australia’s
famous Barossa Valley.
rwrSj
servatives in committee, or filibustered to
death, or rejected by an unbeatable coalition
of Right-wing Democrats and Republicans,
have been sailing through this Congress, the
most liberal in the history of the United States.
The House Judiciary Committee, one of the
traditional temples of conservative obstruction,
has agreed to wipe out the old quota system
for immigration.
A conference of representatives from both
Houses agreed on a compromise for a $7500
million housing Bill. Already known as
"Renticare", this includes provision for rent
subsidies for the poor.
The House has voted to double the spend-
ing limits of the war on poverty.
The Bills go whizzing past almost unnoticed
a measure to regulate the succession to the
Presidency if the President becomes ill or
incapable; the removal of silver from the coin-
age; the death penalty for the murder of a
President and the crime to be a Federal
crime. It is like an assembly line at work.
CANADA
Nuclear Dropout
■yyiTHOUT fanfare, but with much clever-
ness, Canada's Prime Minister Mr Lester
Pearson is quietly fulfilling his Government's
pledge to abandon its relatively limited
nuclear capability. The way Canada is
opting out of the nuclear weapons area is
simplicity itself. By allowing its nuclear
carriers to reach the point of virtual scrap-
heap obsolescence, and not replacing them
by other carriers capable of delivering a
nuclear weapon, the Canadian forces' nuclear
role becomes nil.
The first step was taken when the Govern-
ment, which was looking for a new multi-
purpose aircraft to provide tactical ground
support for the Army, chose the US-designed
F-5 Freedom Fighter. In Canada the plane
will be designated the CF-5. It can only
carry and deliver conventional warheads.
Meanwhile, the CF-104 Starfighter flown by
elements of the RCAF Air Division in Europe,
and having a nuclear role, will not be re-
placed. Instead the 200 Starfighters (eight
squadrons) are being modified to carry con-
ventional weapons, though this will cause a
loss of the aircraft's efficiency. How soon
the Starfighters in Europe will be phased out
of service has not been determined, but it is
likely it will not happen before 1970.
NEW YORK
Gin Breakfast
rpHE booze flowed like water this week at
Tiffany's. As a goodwill gesture toward
the city's water-saving campaign, the old
dowager of the jewellery business filled the
fountains in its Fifth Avenue windows with
gin instead of water. Walter Hovlng, the
store president, wrote the display caption:
"No, no no, this is not precious city water.
It's unprecious old gin". Seven cases of the
unprecious old stuff were carted over from
the local Seagram distributor last week and
the gin was outdrawing the gems in attracting
customers to the windows.
By Tiffany standards there was practically
"a mob scene outside" as people watched the
terra-cotta fountain heads genteely dribble
the gin over the diamonds scattered at the
fountain bases. Customer reaction has been
most favorable, the store reports. "Everyone
seems very happy," it said, "but the main
floor is beginning to smell."


' ■ .
Evil:*
k
-=>
% .
■W
'J
The Polaroid
photograph
of this
machine
was
developed
in 10 seconds
In 9 seconds less, the machine could
have computed a bill total, self-checked it
and printed it on your invoice.
NCR’s new electronic invoicing machine, the Compu-Tronic 35, has revolutionised processing stan-
dards in the interest of simplicity and speed. After only minutes of training, any clerk or typist can
start turning out invoices like a specialist. A computation is completed in thousandths of a second
after the quantity and price are entered. In fact, the Compu-Tronic 35 has a great memory for
figures. It has the ability to hold and re-use figures. Only price changes need be entered. And, all
computations are electronically “self-checked” before the results are printed.
The NCR Compu-Tronic 35 has a full-figure adding machine keyboard plus electric typewriter for
alphabetical descriptions. It handles billing fast: In its spare time you can put it to work on general
ledger or accounts receivable. Ask your local NCR representative to show you how valuable the
Compu-Tronjc 35 can be, for you. Or write to NCR, 14-16 York Street, Sydney.
SYDNEY
211-2188
MELBOURNE
63-0271
BRISBANE
2-0631
TOWNSVILLE
3276
NEWCASTLE
2-4837
ADELAIDE
51-5821
PERTH
21-9727
HOBART
3-3887
CANBERRA
4-0327
WAGGA
4345
THE NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO. PTT. LTD.


The New Rising Sun
20 years after V-P Day Asia’s Ombudsman
By TARIE VITTACHI
(Formerly editor of the “Ceylon Observer ”
and, until March, Asian Director of the
International Press Institute.)
FOR 20 years Japanese diplomacy walked on eggs in the capitals of Asia. Diplo-
mats, politicians, journalists and businessmen moved about with an apologetic,
eager-not-to-displease attitude, quite distinct from the traditional courteousness
of the Japanese people. The sense of guilt or responsibility—call it what we will—
for the horrors of the Pacific war, and the loss of face and self-pity from Hiroshima,
persisted long after the changing world, preoccupied with present turmoil and
future dangers rather than with the past, had accepted Japan as it had accepted
Germany and Italy.
Beside the national trait of remembering “shame”, there were clear external
reasons for this: the occupation and the enforced subservience to American policy,
the substantial commercial dependence on Western markets for her industries, and,
not least, the domestic preoccupation with casting ofE feudal economic and political
relationships and finding a system of government to suit a modern Japan.
The result of all this was Japan’s iso-
lation from her neighbors and from the
political trends in Asia during the forma-
tive ’fifties. The dominant note in Asian
diplomacy during that period was struck
by Jawaharlal Nehru with his policy of
dynamic neutralism designed to keep
Asia clear of the cold war. Asian coun-
tries, now politically free but economi-
cally deprived, saw their role and signi-
ficance as a moral make-weight in the
balance of nuclear terror which straddled
the world. The Bandung conference in
1955 brought this trend into focus and
provided the beginnings of an interna-
tional grouping of nations of Africa and
Asia which, in spite of innumerable in-
ternal differences of purpose, loyalties,
stages of growth, needs and intentions,
were able to make a substantial virtue of
necessity in the United Nations and
elsewhere by sheer numerical strength.
This was the basis of the fast-growing
concept of a third world comprising the
developing countries of Asia, Africa, the
Middle East and Latin America. Inter-
national diplomacy in the foreseeable
future will inevitably be concerned with
this trend, so clearly articulated at the
United Nations conference on trade and
development held in Geneva last year.
What is Japan’s role likely to be in this
third world? Deprived of the authority
of arms, however powerful she may be
economically, Japan can make her pre-
sence felt only if she has the moral
acceptance of her Asian neighbors. Until
the time of the Kishi regime Japan did
not feel she could speak for nor with
any significant segment of Asian
opinion. Her commitments to Ameri-
can policy regarding the Chinese main-
land, Taiwan and SEATO had isolated
her from the increasing neutralist atti-
tude in India, Burma, Ceylon, Indonesia
and Cambodia. Premier Kishi was re-
garded in these countries as another
effete golf-playing American puppet not
much different from Syngman Rhee or
Chiang Kai-shek.
Dissatisfaction with this role among
Japan's intellectuals and students first
broke through to the surface when the
Sengakuran demonstrations successfully
stopped President Eisenhower's visit to
Japan in 1960. During the regime of
Premier Ikeda which followed, the de-
mand for an independent Japanese
foreign policy was voiced with increasing
volume in the Diet and in the national
Press. Exploratory missions to Moscow,
Peking and Eastern Europe became
more frequent. Japanese businessmen
and journalists spoke oftener and with
a firmer voice at international confer-
ences in Asia, Europe and the US. But
the tentative approach was apparently
still necessary. Vestigial remains of an
anti-Japanese mentality still existed in
Singapore, for instance, where —even in
1962 and 1963—clamorous demands
were being made to exact a “blood-
debt” from Japan for her war-time
crimes. The Japanese recoiled at this,
but now felt surer of the ephemeral
nature of this retrospective animosity.
It was therefore not surprising that,
within a year of assuming office, Prime
Minister Sato was able to initiate a
policy of responsible Japanese involve-


ment in Asian and international affairs.
Time and circumstance aided him. The
tariff concessions granted by the US, be-
hind which Japanese industry had been
able to re-establish itself formidably,
were attacked by American industry and
it became plainly evident that new mar-
kets had to be found for Japanese ex-
ports. Mainland China and developing
Asian countries were the obvious areas
for such a move.
For this need to materialise, three re-
lated preconditions were indicated: an
economically strong Asia, a prolonged
period of peace, and elbow-room for
diplomatic manoeuvre. Enlightened self-
interest therefore has led the Sato
Government to participate much more
substantially and actively in economic
aid to developing Asian nations—through
the Colombo Plan and by direct bilateral
agreements, in the form of deferred-
payment facilities (e.g., for a fertiliser
plant for Indonesia), joint power produc-
tion (a power plant in Delhi), joint
ventures in industry (a Malaysian paper
factory), product-sharing enterprises in
agriculture and fisheries (as in Ceylon)
and the dissemination of Japanese tech-
nological expertise (Japan is now offer-
ing 20 places a year for printing fore-
men from. Asian countries who will work
in Japanese newspapers and printing
■firms). Sustained efforts are being made
to transform Japan’s pre-war image of a
predatory purveyor of shoddy goods into
one of a responsible modern nation will-
ing to share its technological advances
with her needy neighbors.
Tokyo has, in the past 18 months, be-
come the focus of peace conferences for
the Indonesian - Malaysian dispute.
H aving hosted these meetings, it was
easy for Mr Sato to go one step further
and offer himself as a mediator between
President Sukarno and Tunku Abdul
Rahman. No cynical voices were
heard pointing out the irony of Japan
playing the peacemaker between two
countries she had overrun not so long
ago.
Mr Sato acted as ombudsman in the
abortive scheme, devised last February,
to bring Indonesia and Malaysia for the
third time to a conference table in Tokyo
to negotiate an approach to settlement
by a conciliation commission drawn
from Algeria, the United Arab Republic,
Pakistan, Thailand, Cambodia and
Japan. Unfortunately for Mr Sato, In-
donesian agreement to attend this meet-
ing was clumsily made conditional on
being granted massive Japanese deferred
payment facilities amounting to 138 mil-
lion dollars for purchases and long-date
loans at 5.75 per cent. But for these
pressures the commission might have
become a reality with Mr Sato, almost
certainly, as chairman, giving Japan her
first major post-war diplomatic role.
In order to develop her commercial
relationships in Asia and make herself
accepted in her role of responsible medi-
ator and technological mentor, it was
also necessary to replace her interna-
tional image of being inextricably tied
to the US State Department with the
more acceptable aspect of interested
neutralism. The positive rejection of
the American blind-eye attitude towards
Peking was the earliest indication of this
change. Trade missions have already
opened up active commercial links be-
tween Tokyo and Peking.
The Sato Government recently en-
couraged the Japan Newspaper Publish-
ers and Editors’ Association (Nihon
Shinbun Kyokai) to organise an ex-
change of newspaper correspondents be-
tween Tokyo and Peking. In February
this year a team of Chinese reporters
were given the sumptuous grand-tour of
Japan—a look at the superbly efficient
facsimile system of newspaper transmis-
sion and the scenic splendor of Fuji,
Osako and Kyoto. A reciprocal invita-
tion to visit China followed. There are
enormous problems involved in getting
such an arrangement going Chinese
reporters are State information officers
while the Japanese are among the freest
newspapermen in the world and would
resent any restriction on their coverage
or any effort on the part of the Japanese
Government to make them toe their
Foreign Office line. But the Japanese
Press also feels a responsibility in im-
proving Japan's commercial and diplo-
matic role in Asia and will undoubtedly
find a way through these problems.
The Counter-balance
Japan has recently shown its willingness
to be used as an instrument of
mediation in Vietnam. This is an indi-
cation of her confidence that her inde-
pendence, from American policy would
be recognised in Peking and Hanoi.
Left-wing elements in Tokyo and
Seoul failed to destroy this impression
despite strenuous efforts to prevent the
Japan-Korea Treaty being signed last
June after 14 years of complex negotia-
tions. The Sato Government's anxiety
to act independently of foreign influence,
vociferously welcomed by Communist
Party secretary Miyamoto and his
cohorts when this attitude worked to the
disadvantage of the State Department,
was proved to be impervious also to
Communist influence. The clandestine
Communists in South Korea launched
a massive campaign against the signing
of the treaty by giving their case patrio-
tic overtones calculated to invoke un-
happy memories of the 70 years of
Japanese domination of Korea.
On this plea it was not difficult to
rouse the volatile student population to
large-scale demonstrations against the
treaty. Their real fears of course were
(1) that Japanese recognition of the Seoul
Government would serve to strengthen
the case for affirming Seoul as the seat
of the only lawful government of Korea
as set out in the 1948 resolution of the
United Nations Assembly, and (2) that
the treaty might eventually lead to an
anti-Communist North-East Asia Treaty
Alliance among Japan, Taiwan, South
Korea and the United States.
The treaty, as it turned out, gave
substance to the first possibility by pro-
viding for the establishment of a Japan-
ese diplomatic mission in Seoul. The
second possibility is not likely to be
pushed toward fulfilment by Japan who
realises that, although President Pak
Chung-hi would like to see a North-
East Asia Treaty Organisation protecting
him against the threat from the North,
such an involvement would automatic-
ally deprive Japan of the diplomatic and
economic advantage of being one of the
few major nations of the world who can
still “speak to Peking”. The treaty is
perhaps even more significant for its eco-
nomic proposals whereby Japan promises
to spend nearly one billion dollars on
economic development in South Korea
over 20 years. The Japan-Korea Treaty
offers very clear evidence of the way that
Japanese diplomacy may be expected to
move in the future.
With the decline of India's influence
in Asia following the Chinese border
invasion and the death of Mr Nehru,
there is a diplomatic vacuum in Asia
which is being rapidly filled by the Chi-
nese. Premier Chou En-lai’s frequent
visits through Asia and Africa and the
stepped-up activities of Chinese embas-
sies in these regions, have already given
Peking the place that Delhi once held.
Japan could well be the counter-balance
that non-Communist opinion hopes will
arise to prevent the formation of another
bitterly divided world—this time not
between East and West but between
North and South —the white haves ver-
sus the non-white have-nots.
But two factors stand in Japan's way
to establish herself as the diplomatic
leader of non-Communist Asia: her
bounding economic power is admired as
an Asian achievement but is widely sus-
pect because of its “Western” capitalist
structure. The moral backing of socia-
list Asia is an essential component of any
effort on Japan's part to play a dominant
international diplomatic role. The second
factor is Japan’s reluctance to adopt
vocally the current banner of Asian
nationalism: Asian solutions to Asian
problems. It sounds too closely evoca-
tive of war-time Japan's slogan “Asia for
the Asians”.


The Thrusting Musician
Something of an enigma
From RUDOLF KLEIN in London
EDWARD HEATH
A FTER one of the shortest, and least bitter, contests in the history of the Con-
servative Party, Edward Heath emerged as its new leader and as Britain’s
alternative Prime Minister. His success—at the age of 49 (young, as Tory leaders go)
and only 15 years after he first became a member of Parliament —is powerful
testimony to, the adaptability of the Conservative Party. For Heath, despite appear-
ances, is hardly one of Nature’s ready-made Conservative leaders. He comes not
from an aristocratic but from a middle-class family: his father was a master-builder.
He went not to one of the great public schools like Eton, which have been the
traditional breeding ground for Tory politicians, but to a local grammar school. He
is a bachelor, whose chief private interest is music.
None of this would, on the face of it,
be likely to endear him to the Con-
servative Party —if one accepts the
stereotype of a party which is dominated
by the old school tie and by its aristo-
cratic traditions. But, of course, the
stereotype is misleading. By far the
strongest Conservative tradition is the
party’s willingness to look for talent »n
unexpected men particularly when the
party is in trouble, as it is now ''after
losing the last general election. Disraeli,
after all, was a literary adventurer, Bonar
Law was a somewhat uncouth in-
dustrialist — to name only two of the
party’s leaders in the past century.
Moreover, Heath made it easy for the
Conservative Party to accept him.
Socially, he has proved extremely adaot-
able. His rather plummy voice, his dis-
tinguished white hair, make him accept-
able to a party which might find a less
socially flexible man hard to take even
now. He belongs to the right clubs. He
lives in the right part of London. It is
easy to forgive him even his interest in
opera and his talent for playing the
organ and the piano.
At the same time Heath appeals to all
those who see in Conservatives not so
much the party of tradition as the party
-of opportunity. In a sense, he is the
prototype of the man who has made his
own chances and exploited them to the
full winning a scholarship from his
grammar school to Oxford (where he was
president of the union) and, during the
war, rising from the ranks to become
a lieutenant-colonel.
Even so, Heath’s success story remains
something of an enigma. He is highly
intelligent and extremely hard working.
But he is an efficient rather than a
brilliant speaker, relying more on the
cogency of his argument than on the
brilliance of his oratory or the appeal of
his personality. And he is not an
original political thinker; his name is not
associated with any startling new ideas.
His career has been remarkable more
for the thrust with which he has pushed
through his policies than for any long-
term political vision. Indeed Heath first
made his reputation as an executant
rather than an originator of policy. He
came into prominence as the Conserva-
tive Party’s Chief Whip that is, re-
sponsible for party discipline in the
House of Commons during the Suez
crisis. During this period, when the
party was deeply split, he showed
enormous skill and great ruthlessness in
cajoling and, if need be, pushing MPs
into supporting the Eden Government.
Heath’s more recent opportunity to
shine came during Britain’s negotiations
with the Common Market, for whose
conduct he was responsible. Again he
was remarkable chiefly for his tactical
skill rather than for his strategic out-
look: showing a most impressive capacity
to master a very detailed and complex
technical brief during the Brussels talks.
after the Tory defeat at last
October’s elections, Heath was made its
chief spokesman on economic affairs and
in charge of a programme of political
introspection. But since the new policies
have not yet been published, it is dif-
ficult to judge his success as the breeder
of ideas. The paradox remains, there-
fore. Heath —whose experience in high
office is very limited and whose abilities
as a political leader, rather than
executant, remain to be tested has
suddenly shot to the top of the party.
It is difficult to avoid the conclusion
that the main reason for Heath’s success
lies in his personality. He is a thruster.
There is an element of ruthlessness and
single-minded dedication in his character
which seemed to be missing from that of
his chief rival, Mr Reginald Maudling.
And the Tories, still resentful about
losing office and uncertain about how
best to set out to regain it, are in a mood
to be pushed and prodded without
asking too many questions as to the
direction in which Mr Heath will push
and prod them.
How to Teach-in
The radical cause at the right time
From IRVING KRISTOL in New York
TT is hard to write fairly or clearly about the American “teach-in” movement
A it is no less confused than the Vietnam situation itself. The picture varies
significantly, from campus to campus, and from month to month.
What is surely true is that the “teach-ins” reflect a minority opinion among
students and faculty. What is also surely true is that this fact is less significant
than another: whereas the Administration may have the passive, silent (and often
unthinking) support of the majority, its critics have the active, eloquent, determined
support of an organised minority whose numbers, if they fall far short of 50 per
cent, are nevertheless considerable. In such a contest there can be little doubt that
it is the minority point of view which will be shaping public opinion on the campuses.
Why this revolt on the campus, on
this issue, at this time? Vietnam itself,
one may suspect, is as much the
occasion as the cause. No doubt there
is a goodly amount of simple, virtuous,
“anti-imperialism” involved. But what
makes Vietnam a particularly suitable
occasion is the fact that the United
States seems to have lost political and
military control over events there, and
that we appear to be losing the war.
There is nothing like military disaster for
giving heart to pre-existing internal
factionalism and dissent. It is significant
that American intervention in the
Dominican Republic —an act so flag-
rantly in violation of radical and liberal
sensibilities —has given rise to very few
demonstrations and, so far as I know, to
not a single “teach-in”. Americans are


still reluctant to argue with the US
Marines, so long as they have the situa-
tion under control.
I have referred to “pre-existing internal
factionalism and dissent” this is but
another way of saying that the American
campus has, in these past five years,
witnessed a general revival of Left-wing
opinion and Left-wing passion. The
“silent generation” of the 1950 s has given
way to the “militants” of the ’sixties.
Why American students, amidst general
prosperity, and under a liberal admini-
stration that is expanding the Welfare
State more aggressively and successfully
than anyone had thought possible, should
“go Left”, is a riddle to which no
sociologist has as yet come up with an
answer. One theory is, simply, that
these young people are bored: they see
their lives laid out neatly before them;
they see themselves moving ahead sedate-
ly and more or less inexorably in their
professional careers; thev know that with
a college degree even “failure” in their
careers will represent no harsh punish-
ment; they know “it’s all laid on” and
they rebel against this bourgeois utopia
their parents so ardently strove for.
One of the unforeseen consequences of
the Welfare State is that it leaves so
little room for militant idealism. Which
is to sav, it satisfies the middle-aged
while spiffing the young. American
youth, however, has had one grand,
idealistic experience: the civil rights
movement. This has been the formative
experience for the “activists” of the
19605; it is this movement that gave
them a sense of power and purpose; and
it is the civil rights movement which in-
structed them in the tactics of “civil dis-
obedience” that are now resorted to at
the drop of a hat. Unfortunately, the
civil rights movement has had one great
drawback: so far from being a “dissent-
ing” movement, it has behind it the
President, Congress, the courts, the laws
of the land, and a majority of public
opinion.
This is obviously a peculiar condition
for a radical to find himself in. It helps
explain why the younger militants have
constantly pushed the movement to-
wards “extremes” and by an “ex-
treme” I mean, not a demand for more
equal opportunity for the Negro, but a
demand for utter, complete, and im-
mediate equality of condition for the
Negro. This was satisfying temporarily,
since the demand could not be fulfilled
without repealing three centuries of his-
tory, and even Lyndon Johnson hasn’t
figured out a way to do that. But the
“extremist” position, too, has slowly
been becoming a bit of a bore, especially
among the Negroes themselves, many of
whom have begun to suspect (quite cor-
rectly) that once again they are being
used for the white man’s purposes.
It is a strange experience to see a
radical movement in search of a radical
cause it is usually very much the
other way around. It leads to all sorts
of paradoxes. For instance, these young
American radicals are in the historically
unique position of not being able to
demand a single piece of legislation from
their government their “platform” is
literally without one legislative plank. To
be sure, an observer could in the abstract
think up something for them like
nationalising the steel industry, say. But
they are fearful that, if they start asking
for this, Lyndon Johnson just might do
it and who wants to make him a
present of our steel industry? So radical-
ism on the campus has tended to be
more picturesque than political . . . until
Vietnam came into focus as a rally-point.
What brought Vietnam into focus was
the spreading upward of the radical tem-
per into the junior ranks of the faculty.
Just why this should have happened is
not so clear either no one has yet
made a study of the frustrations of the
American university teacher.
At any rate, once the junior faculty
took the leadership, even nominally,
there had to be an unambiguous political
objective. Our Vietnam policy, already
under some criticism, and patently not
working out as the Government desired,
was conveniently at hand. And since
most academics are instinctively “anti-
war” and “anti-imperialist” to begin
with, they could seize this issue in good
conscience.
Educational veneer
so-called “teach-in” was introduced
A —an ingenious device whereby the
faculty could absolve itself of the ac-
cusation of “indoctrinating” the stud-
ents. A “teach-in” is supposed to be a
debate and discussion between various
points of view. It rarely is that. A speak-
er who is at least partially sympathetic
to the Administration’s point of view is
invariably invited. But the preponderance
of speakers is just as invariably on the
other side and a good part of the
meeting (which can go on for thirty-six
hours) will be devoted to impromptu
harangues on “the power structure” from
leaders of different Left-wing groups, folk-
singing with a pacifist slant, the reading
of articles and reports from the foreign
Press on the American presence in Viet-
nam, etc.
It has been most interesting to -ob-
serve. the kinds of faculty men and wom-
en who have been active in “teach-ins”.
Not only are they usually junior in
rank; they are also usually in professions
that have precious little to do with Viet-
nam. The psychologists have been especi-
ally keen: the idea that an engagement
in International conflict is nothing more
than a species of infantile aggression
seems finally to have struck deep root
among members of that discipline. The
mathematicians, chemists, and philoso-
phers have also been highly visible, I
can’t imagine why. Notable by their
relative absence have been scholars who
could claim to know more about Viet-
nam, or Asia, or Communism, or inter-
national politics than might be gleaned
from a reading of “The New York
Times”.
There are many such in universities in
the United States, and not all of them
agree with what the Administration is
doing in Vietnam or with the way it is
doing it. But they have too great an ap-
preciation of the complexity of the mess
we are in to adopt a simplistic “anti”
position Besides, practically all of them
have contacts in Washington and they
know that, had they a new, good idea
about Vietnam, they would get a prompt
and respectful hearing.
The “teach-in” movement reached its
climax in a national “teach-in” in Wash-
ington, in mid-May, which was televised
and broadcast throughout the nation.
It was educational te'evision at its best;
but the “Inter-University Committee on
Vietnam”, which organised the affair,
had not thought particularly of improv-
ing the quality of educational television.
It had wanted a protest meeting wuh
an “educational” veneer; and in the lob-
bies of the Sheraton Hotel hundreds of
students and faculty members wandered
about in high political frustration.
It is not likely that the same mistake
will be repeated in the future. After the
summer vacation, assuming the situation
in Vietnam is not too different from
what it is now 7 , one may expect the
“teach-ins” to shed their educational
clothes entirely and become an outright
movement of political agitation. This
could create all sorts of serious prob-
lems. For one thing, it would put uni-
versity administrations in a most diffi-
cult position. In view of the fact that
the “teach-in” movement is centred m
a handful of state universities whose
budgets are controlled by the state legis-
latures, there has been a remarkable de-
gree of official permissiveness so far.
After all, it is generally agreed that it
is a breach of professional ethics for pro-
fessors to organise their students on the
campus for political purposes.
To the extent that a “teach-in” could
pass itself off as a debate, with the aim
of education rather than agitation, uni-
versity administrators and state legislat-
ors could turn a blind eye towards what
was actually happening. But should it
become too apparent that faculty mem-
bers are using their position to shape a
political constituency among their stud-
ents well, all kinds of hell could then
break loose.


Life Out There?
The theology of Mars
THE recent Mariner IV excursion has not added any weight to the opinion that life
exists on Mars. Only the naive, of course, ever believed it would. After all, the
excellent Ranger pictures of the moon only served to stoke and stimulate the
prejudices of the various theorists as they advanced their postulates of the nature of
its surface: after looking long and hard at these pictures, various bands of experts
now say the moon’s surface is smooth, rough, soft, hard, and so on to at least a
dozen conflicting interpretations.
Before the close-up pictures, one
American firm had designed landing gear
that would enable a spaceship to set
down safely on an uneven but firm
surface. Since studying the Ranger’s
views this firm now believes that its self-
levelling landing legs are unnecessarily
clumsy and liable to become bogged in
the deep dust which manifestly covers
the moon’s surface. Another firm which
had built legs for a soft landing has also
turned about and is now putting sturdier
supports under its craft, so that it will
stand up to a pretty hard bump as it
finally comes to rest on a manifestly
hard surface!
The British astronomer, Lowell, set
the life-on-Mars rumor going a century
ago when he thought he saw “canals”.
He suggested that they might be irriga-
tion ditches. Some ditches. They would
have been over 50 miles wide if they
were visible through his telescope. Few
later gazers have seen the lines or canals
although enough reputable people have
claimed sighting them down the years
to keep the idea alive. Mariner IV has
not seen any canals and this failure may
now junk an extensive science-fiction
literature.
The other basis for the view that life
exists on Mars stems from the well-
confirmed observations that blue-green
areas appear seasonally anil seasonally
fade into orange-red areas. It is very
tempting to interpret these changes as
plant life surging into a spring flush of
growth and then dying away into
autumnal brown. And it may well be
that precisely this is happening. How-
ever, the physicists have recently ad-
vanced some hard-headed alternative in-
terpretations. They suggest, for instance,
that the color changes may have a
minerological explanation just as some
common minerals such as table salt and
diamonds change color when energised
by X-ray radiation.
Be all this as it may, life on Mars re-
mains a distinct possibility that is
not to say probability. Dr S. M. Siegel,
working at the Union Carbide Research
Institute, Dayton, Ohio, has shown re-
cently that under certain conditions even
our higher types of plants and animals
can tolerate very bleak environments. He
built a Mars simulator based on pre-
Mariner IV ideas of conditions on Mars.
Thus, he arranged for the climate in the
simulator to be very much colder than
is average over the Earth’s temperate
zones, much drier, and for the atmos-
phere to contain about one-tenth as much
oxygen as ours but appreciably more
carbon dioxide.
Siegel found that many of our com-
mon plants, insects, and animals could
survive certain combinations of low tem-
perature, moisture, and oxygen level
though they will not tolerate any one
of these factors alone for long. Most
successful under the “Martian” conditions
were, not surprisingly, our desert plants
and high-altitude conifers. Such vegeta-
tion, by the way, looks blue-green at a
distance. Insects such as scarabs also sur-
vived, and even starfish and turtles coped,
though these creatures did not reproduce.
Apart from the higher forms of life,
we have on Earth an immense assort-
ment of bacteria, fungi, algae, and uni-
cellular or simple-celled animals which
can live in the most extraordinary situa-
tions. Indeed, often they can only live
in exceptional environments. Thus, some
can flourish only in the absence of
oxygen the dreadful tetanus bacillus
being one common example. Another
bacterium has been discovered thriving
inside a nuclear reactor, where one would
naturally expect the heat and the radia-
tion to produce absolute sterility.
Actually, life on Earth depends
ultimately on the. activity of its myriads
of invisible forms of life. The atmos-
phere’s carbon dioxide and the soil’s nit-
rogen, which are essential for the life of
the higher plants and hence the higher
animals, are produced by these micro-
scopic particles of life. They are, in
truth, the essence of life and closest to
the origins of evolutionary life. Mariner
IV’s cameras, ingenious though they may
have been, could not possibly detect these
vital microbes; and if there is any life at
all on Mars we can rest assured that the
commonest expression of it will be mic-
robial. To see such life we will have to
actually land on Mars, or, at least, land
life-detection equipment there.
The latter seems to be the more fea-
sible aim at this juncture. Nevertheless,
it will be some years yet before this can
be done and any clear evidence can be
obtained on the great question that has
bemused man down the ages—whether
in this infinite universe life is a statistic,
i.e., a chemical chance or a miracle,
unique to Earth. Resolution of this ques-
tion will have enormous repercussions
on human thought. It will influence
not only biological concepts but also
philosophical and theological ones.
Clearly, Mars is the obvious first place
to look for life beyond Earth. Of all
the planets in the solar system it is the
one most like our own scant though
that likeness is now known to be as a
result of the non-photographic informa-
tion sent back by Mariner IV. Unfor-
tunately, opportunities for flights to Mars
are not always at hand. The orbits of
Earth and Mars are such that visits can
only be made through brief windows that
recur only every 25 months and the win-
dow is only fully open every 17 years.
The Americans’ next Mars probe is ac-
cordingly scheduled for 1971 when the
window will be opened fairly widely and
after that the next most suitable time to
get through will be during 1984-5.
Life-detection apparatus has already
been designed and some components
have been built and tested. Naturally,
these gadgets are based on the assump-
tion that life “out there” will be funda-
mentally similar to our own that it
will eat, excrete, and produce heat.
Furthermore, since we can only detect
what we can define, it is assumed that
the ingesta and excreta consist of the
same basic chemicals as are produced
by terrestrial life and that the process
in between ingestion and excretion, cal-
led metabolism, proceeds by the same
chemical pathways as it does on Earth.
As has already been mentioned, even
on Earth there are organisms such as
the sulphur-eating bacteria which do not
conform to the usual pattern of meta-
bolism. There is really no reason to ex-
pect that oddities do not also occur on
Mars. They may, indeed, be the norm
there. In other words, even if life-detec-
tion apparatus is landed in working order
on Mars and reports negative results,.the
die-hards can still reasonably claim that
Mars might support life of a very dif-
ferent kind.


Cl
fmmmmi
yy~-mwm£ i§ 1
M ' M
:
fsiUPH; C&V&S&mv
HH
: 1
■■■
«§*
§|§|pp
H , i
S .V--*
:
Mmmmm
mm
t»
■
l ::
Above: Daydream Party Keg, Lemar Industries Pty. Ltd., N.S.W.
Below: Pedigree TV Set, Pye Industries Ltd., N.S.W.
mm
mm
‘A*
mm
m
>•/»>
■m ?
■ . p......
.Aboue: Black Box Stereogram, Pye Industries Ltd., N.S.W.
Below: Berry’s Coldstream Refrigerated Display Unit, W.A.
Hli
:;.
■:
II
mm 3§i
■ ■
■
X,
vK- ■
>•<
y MSgMMjI
d M| ** m
isii^r
.


M
I'
wgmzmw-s. m ■
:
„
|p5#&S2S?S»®$S
*
f
iWF***
/V'^.
Above; Wonder Heat Heater, Wonder Heat Interstate Pty. Ltd., N.S.W.
pCtt-'— *—' | mi*oay
~~r:I ....w** I »**«s:***#» i
!xw«i«wa»| a*** I **.*^l »PPg*g § t*********™********
s» p^~<*m***m,
■ *£!£**«*»* I ™*V*Mm*3*MM
iF^sa :
»■*»»)*
~
*****lXl
4 ’^*** S ****»«*s
;#%bsw
2^?
.I***
.«*»*
■,
**2**W
1 '
W
</
ia
I
Sswi
#
Above; Central Station Control Board, Metropolitan Signals Pty. Ltd., N.S.W.
Below: Plan Cabinet, Metalux Industries, W.A.
□
■.
□
. i
: ■■;■'- .
□
m
ORB
Seven more uses
of Marviplate
to add to the
thousand others
Lysaght Marviplate combines the massive
strength of steel with the warm beauty of a
vinyl fabric surface.
Marviplate consists of a decorative vinyl film
bonded permanently to a steel sheet. It
can be sheared, punched and formed just like
ordinary sheet steel. It requires no painting
for finishing, yet it adds new beauty to
luggage, television and radio cabinets, furniture,
in fact anything that needs the strength
of steel and the permanent beauty of vinyl.
Marviplate is permanent, washable, won’t
scratch, won’t scuff, keeps its glamorous good
looks year after year.
It’s available in a wide range of colours and
textures from delicate pastels and warm
feature colours to textile finishes and simulated
woodgrains.
Make it with strength . . . make it with looks
. . . make it with Marviplate!
Write or ’phone for literature, technical advice.
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited, Sydney,
Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Hobart.
LYSAGHT
MARVIPLATE
MP6OcJ


Women Behind Bars
Apathy , hysteria , nocturnal screams
By GORDON HAWKINS
THE violent riot by male prisoners in Auckland’s Mount Eden Gaol which put
New Zealand on front pages throughout the world, and the subsequent disturb-
ance at the Paparua Prison near Christchurch, inevitably diverted attention from
developments on the distaff side. Yet July saw the publication of a number of stories
which indicate that women take no more kindly to incarceration than men.
Halfway through the month headlines
like THE .HOUSE OF FEAR and
GIRLS USED LIKE ANIMALS above
stories about the Weerona Girls’ Train-
ing School at Latrobe, Tasmania, were
followed by the announcement that the
Tasmanian Government had launched a
full inquiry into activities in the home.
Within a week WOMEN PRISONERS
IN GAOL RIOT and HOSES STOP
GAOL RIOT headed accounts of an out-
break at Long Bay, Sydney, into which,
it was reported, a departmental inquiry
will be held. Finally NSW Child Welfare
Minister A. D. Bridges has ordered an
investigation of charges made on ABC
television that girls were brutally treat-
ed at two NSW child welfare institutions,
the Parramatta Training School and the
Ormond School.
Yet in most of the books on penal
methods women are rarely if ever men-
tioned, and in few of them is any rea-
lisation shown that there are problems
peculiar to women in prison different
from those faced by men.
The truth is that since the days of the
first women’s prisons, the Parramatta
Factory and the Houses of Correction
for Females at Hobart and Launceston,
women have shown much more diffi-
culty in adjusting to prison than men.
Today, the Annual Reports of the British
Prison authorities regularly show that
breaches of discipline are more frequent
in women’s prisons. And, although com-
parable Australian statistics are not
available, recent reports suggest that
women find imprisonment no more con-
genial here than in the UK.
Similarly girls’ reformatories or Ap-
proved Schools, as they are called in
Britain, show a higher rate of abscond-
ence than those for boys. Nigel Walker,
Oxford University’s Reader in Crimin-
ology, recently observed that “The senior
girls’ schools must be among the most
difficult establishments in the country to
manage.” No one with experience in the
field will question that judgment. Most
of the inmates have already thrown off
parental discipline and control; not un-
naturally they resent attempts to impose
an official substitute.
It is probable that a principal reason
for the problems encountered is that the
women and girls placed in institutions
are a much more difficult and anti-social
selection from the population than their
male counterparts. For female offenders
and offences are grossly under-reported.
Women and girls enjoy a remarkable de-
gree of immunity, not merely to detec-
tion but also to arrest and prosecution
when detected. Many policemen are re-
luctant to arrest women, and females are
more likely than males to be let off
with a caution. There is evidence, too,
that the younger they are the more
likely are they to be dealt with in this
way. Law enforcement agents, magis-
trates, judges and juries are more leni-
ent in dealing with women than with
men. A recent study of shoplifters (Gib-
bens and Prince: “Shoplifting”, 196?.)
indicates that, even when only those
with previous convictions are consider-
ed, women are much less likely to be
imprisoned for this offence than men.
But quite apart from the fact that fe-
male inmates are likely to be a less
amenable selection than males, there is
no doubt that women in general find it
much harder than men to adapt them-
selves to institutional regimes, particu-
larly those of a penal character. Im-
prisonment seems to be a greater blow
to their pride and self-respect and to im-
pose a deeper sense of isolation and
degradation. As a result they frequently
relapse into a resentful apathy. Alterna-
tively the dullness and monotony provoke
hysterical exhibitionism, or claustro-
phobia induces violent nocturnal out-
bursts in which prisoners smash up all
their cell furniture and scream and bat-
ter at their doors.
Moreover, although it was generally
regarded as a victory for enlightenment
when Elizabeth Fry’s principle that fe-
males should be looked after entirely by
females was legally enforced in the 19th
century, women appear to dislike insti-
tutions confined wholly to members of
their own sex. Jealousies, tensions and
animosities develop which are probably
the cause of the majority of offences m
women’s institutions. Information so far
available regarding the disturbance at
Long Bay indicates that it was precipi-
tated by an argument which developed
amongst the women prisoners them-
selves during a meal. Segregation, which
was introduced to prevent the sexual ex-
ploitation of women prisoners, regarded
as one of the worst features of past
regimes, has not proved an unmixed
blessing.
In such circumstances the strain on
the physical and nervous resources of the
staff can be considerable. Charged with
the control and management of those
who have proved themselves uncontrol-
lable and unmanageable, the role of
teacher or disciplinary officer in one of
these institutions is amongst the most
difficult and demanding in the whole
field of social work. The handling of
troublesome and unstable women and
girls calls for a quite remarkable degree
of insight, tact and patience. With
charges who have frequently defeated the
combined efforts of parents, schools,
various social agencies and even hus-
bands, it would be surprising if tempers
never became frayed or self-control were
always absolute.
The task is often made more difficult
because of the conditions under which
it must be performed. Because fewer
women and girls are convicted than
males, and fewer of those convicted are
imprisoned, the institutions provided for
them are fewer and less varied. Yet for
the great majority of female offenders,
maximum security conditions are not es-
sential, and the depressing effect of such
institutions on women seems to be much
worse than for men who appear to be
less sensitive about such things.
In 1950 the UK Government Com-
mittee appointed to review punishments
in prisons and borstals drew attention to
the fact that at the women’s open prison
at Askham Grange, Yorkshire, no pris-
oner had been placed on report for mis-
conduct since the opening of the prison
three years previously. Violence, smash-
ings-up and other hysterical manifesta-
tions are rare in open institutions.
It can, after all, scarcely be maintain-
ed that those who indulge in minor
forms of dishonesty or disapproved
sexual activities which are the typi-
cal female offences must be regard-
ed as constituting a serious menace to
society. Even those who are not suit-
able for completely open conditions are
very rarely dangerous. For them semi-
security institutions run on “cottage”
lines would possibly be more appropri-
ate. One of the /most striking features of
the sex-ratio in relation to crime inci-
dentally is that, although they are usual-
ly more difficult to control inside insti-
tutions, fewer women than men prison-
ers are subsequently reconvicted.


Letters to the Editor
Teach-ins And Academics
SIR. You were quite right in express-
ing editorial concern over the fact that
no academics except a handful have
publicly supported Australia's military
commitment in Vietnam. Yet you also
claim that most Australian academics
do, in fact, support the Government on
this issue. Is this true? The following
are the facts as far as 1 could ascertain
them: At least 280 academics have
attacked our commitment in Vietnam
publicly. Five have publicly supported
it. I happen to know from one of the
organisers of the anti - Government
petition the break-down of the relevant
figures for one Australian university
reputed to be the most “Right-wing” on
the mainland. In that particular uni-
versity all staff members were circulated
with the petition and asked specifically
to return the petition even if they decide
not to support it and state the reasons
for their refusal. Approximately 20 per
cent of the staff responded to the
petition an extremely good result, as
anybody who has ever been involved in
this kind of thing can tell. Eighty per
cent of the respondents supported the
petition, 15 per cent opposed it and five
per cent were undecided. A recent little
survey carried out by Mr Murray-Smith
among staff members at Melbourne
University points in the same direction.
I quote from Mr Murray-Smith’s letter:
“Of the 13 members polled, four were
unreservedly opposed to Government
policy on Vietnam. Two members said
their views wavered between opposition
and uneasiness, while five stated that they
felt uneasy and unhappy about the
position. Two members of staff said that
they “pessimistically” supported the send-
ing of troops to Vietnam, but I could
not find one staff member to state that
he was unreservedly in favor of Govern-
ment policy.” (“The Australian”, July
28.) Mr Murray-Smith also told me,
privately, that among his 13 respondents
there were three Catholics.
There are very good reasons to
suppose that many more academics are
opposed to our commitment in Vietnam
than those who signed the petition. I
myself know of quite a number of cases
where signatures were withheld to escape
(quite imaginary) adverse reactions from
Government departments, American
foundations, and other academic milch-
cows. To obtain an accurate estimate
much more careful surveys would have
to be carried out, but what there is
offers not a shred of evidence for the
view that the majority of academics
support the Government over Vietnam.
It is, however, consistent with the fol-
lowing general impression: Most Aus-
tralian academics are uncommitted or
uninterested in the Vietnam issue. They
are politically formless, neither support-
ing nor opposing the Government. Yet
those academics who organise, manipu-
late, defame and praise, who set the tone
and who, in the end always get their
way —in brief, the activist minority
are overwhelmingly against the Govern-
ment. On this as on all other issues the
Australian academic activist is, pre-
dominantly, pro-Communist or neutralist.
And it is the distinction between activists
and non-activists which matters, rather
than the irrelevant one which you seem
to have stressed of teaching or not teach-
ing politics as a discipline (though many
more than two social scientists of note
can be found among the 280 signatories).
The intellectual level of the neutralist,
pro-Communist Left is miserably low.
This has been shown again in the Viet-
nam debate. In an open contest of minds
and wits with competent academic
opponents they would be annihilated.
Yet as long as they are allowed to main-
tain their present monopolistic position
by illicit manipulations of academic re-
sources and get away with it, their
hegemony will prevail. I suppose there
is something to be said for a policy of
whistling in the dark, pretending or
hoping that the political situation
throughout our elite - shaping educa-
tional system is better than it is, 'par-
ticularly now, when the Government
needs as much prestige-linked support ns
it can get. Yet in the long run it is
better to face the unpleasant facts
squarely and to make them widely known
to the public at large a public which
is still predominantly patriotic and anti-
Comniunist. Only in this way can a
climate of opinion be created in which
the defeat of the neutralist and pro-Com-
munist hegemony in our universities will
become possible.
FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
East Melbourne (Vic.).
SIR. —The editors must have been seek-
ing correspondence when they accepted
the fatuous remarks in “Plain English”
(8., July 24) about “teach-ins” and the
curious silence of those academics
supporting our Government’s Vietnam
policy.
How The Bulletin can discern the
overall bias of the academic community
I do not know, especially since it admits
that those supporting the Government
are silent. Specifically from our own
case, we differ from your implication
that “teach-ins” in general are Leftist
organised protests. In organising the
Monash “teach-in” there has been a
pledge to have on the platform a
balanced allotment of the programme
between all available political view-
points. Monash has failed: we do not
have a Communist on our platform. The
committee is comprised of representa-
tives of the Monash Students’ Rep-
resentative Council, Political Studies
Association, Democratic Labor Club,
Labor Club and Liberal Club. The
original initiative came from students in
the Political Studies Association. It has
the support of 20 sponsoring professors,
including five faculty deans. The spon-
sors believe “that subject of ‘Vietnam’
and related issues requires serious, in-
formed public attention”. The Monash
forum is receiving wide co-operation
within and without the University. The
remarks on vice-chancellors are irrele-
vant; University administrators are in
no position to comment on the political
opinions of the members of staff.
W. A. STANDISH
(Arts II)
Monash University (Vic.).
SIR. Is The Bulletin willing to dis-
close any details of the opinion-testing
technique which permits it to castigate
a number of people for having failed
to make known their views, whilst at
the same time informing the rest of us
exactly what those views are? Indeed
one would be grateful to know how
the very existence of this group was
detected! Even vice-chancellors have
something to learn from this astounding
amalgam of divination, denunciation and
disclosure. Newly cast in the role of
their professors’ keepers, they are
exhorted to defend their respective in-
stitutions against charges of being hot-
beds of debate, enquiry and even dis-
quiet.
B. R. ABBEY
J. C. ABBEY
J. W. SIMMONDS
Glen Iris (Vic.).
Juries And Juniors
SIR.—In your editorial (8., July 24) you
attack the “two-counsel rule” which
prohibits a QC from appearing without
a junior and the “two-thirds” rule
whereby the junior receives a fee equal
to two-thirds his leader’s fee. The pur-
pose of these rules is, of course:
(a) to discourage second-raters from
taking silk, by limiting their pros-
pective field of employment to
cases of such importance and dif-
ficulty that the employment of two
counsel is justified;
(b) to protect the silk (and clients) by
ensuring that the juniors employed
are persons known to the instruct-
ing solicitor to be both competent
and industrious; and
(c) to protect junior counsel, par-
ticularly young counsel, against ex-
ploitation by their seniors and by
solicitors.
In other words, the rules were devised,
as was the jury system, by persons who
understood human nature.
JUNIOR
Sydney (NSW).


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
And at the Piano,
Geoffrey Parsons
By JACK KUNST
T>ianist Geoffrey Parsons, who accom-
A panied Victoria de Los Angeles on
her Australian tour recently, is a special-
ist of a rare kind. Before flying back to
London where he has lived since 1950,
Sydney-born Parsons, an articulate six-
footer with long, slender hands, talked
about his profession and career at his
parents’ home at Croydon Park.
In essence, what emerged from the
conversation was that the principles of
accompanimental playing were not dif-
ferent from ensemble playing. This is the
strength as well as the weakness of the
accompanist. He takes his place in the
ensemble and “limelight” is distributed
according to the kind of ensemble and
the role he plays in it. In song accom-
paniment the voice normally gets a
larger share of the “limelight” than a
violin can claim in a violin and piano
sonata.
A good accompanist contributes enor-
mously to the fame and reputation of
a singer or instrumentalist and although
the public may not always be aware of
it, the artists thus supported are, and
would chase him to the end of the
world. But the accompanist rarely gets
equal billing on the programme. At the
best he is called “associate artist” and
at the worst the programme says “at the
piano so and so”. This attitude also has
economic implications. The fee the ac-
companist gets is usually only a fraction
of what the accompanied gets.
Parsons was quick to point out that
this line of thought was merely some
sort of analysis and not a “beef”. He
presents the image of the completely
dedicated specialist who will not do any-
thing else, regardless of opinion or
money, and who as he claims -
cannot do anything else.
As an accompanist he has risen to
such prominence that it has become
generally accepted opinion that he will
automatically take Gerald Moore’s place
when the latter decides to retire. A great-
er accolade would be to imagine.
Geoffrey Parsons’ career began in a'
completely casual way. Born in 1929
and the youngest of three sons, he be-
gan piano lessons at the age of seven.
Both his parents sang in choirs and
generally generated a more-than-average
interest in music but they never pushed
him or tried to set him on a career. His
first teacher was Elva Biggs who lived
“just around the corner”.
Young Geoffrey’s interest and talent
were such that at the age of 12 the
Sydney Conservatorium of Music seem-
ed the next step. There his teacher was
Winifred Burston. A scholarship on the
strength of his Leaving pass enabled him
to go to Sydney University, but there
was no Faculty of Music then.
When he won the piano section in the
Concerto and Vocal Competition in
1947 he was then 18 he left
university and knew what he wanted
music. In 1948 the ABC asked him to go
on an Australian concert tour with
Essie Ackland—Essie Ackland’s last tour
and Parsons’ first.
In 1949 the ABC asked him again to
go on an Australia-wide tour, this time
GEOFFREY PARSONS
with Peter Dawson. This was Peter Daw-
son’s last Australian tour. Peter Dawson
was then 69 and Geoffrey Parsons only
19 half a century between the two
artists. After that came a tour of New
Zealand with Dawson.
Plans for a Dawson tour of Canada
and Britain collapsed and the only way
Parsons could stay with Dawson was by
making his own way to England. He did
just that in 1950 and although Dawson
stayed only long enough for 10 con-
certs, it gave Parsons a splendid entree.
However, when Peter Dawson returned
to his homeland, Geoffrey Parsons found
himself alone in the big, wide world.
He accepted any kind of engagement
—within limits—and as a “pianist for
hire” gained valuable experience. One
night at a seaside concert he was ac-
companying the wife of the well-known
bandleader Carroll Gibbons, who had a
piano-accordion act. Mr Gibbons heard
him and with unfailing musical instinct
offered him a job in the cocktail bar of
the Berkeley Hotel at £4O a week, a nice
wage in 1951.
This enabled Parsons to settle down
and save some money. Other engage-
ments in shows and revues brought more
money, and, eventually, in 1954 he
bought his parents a trip to England and
himself a piano. However, in 1953, Par-
sons met Lady Lamington, wife of the
son of the first Governor of Queensland.
Her wonderful efforts on Geoffrey Par-
sons’ behalf paid off in 1955 when Ger-
hard Huesch, the celebrated lieder sing-
er, came to Britain for his first recital
since the war.
Gerald Moore was not available and
Parsons, who had become more widely
known also through his work with the
Arts Council Opera Group, was chosen
to accompany the great singer. Huesch
invited him to Munich where the two
settled down to three months of solid
study. They spoke English one day and
German the next in order to become pro-
ficient in each other’s language.
While in Germany Parsons did some
study under pianist Friedrich Wuehrer.
Parsons says that among the many things
he learned from Wuehrer was that his
earlier piano tuition had been exactly
right he did not have to unlearn “bad
habits”.
In 1956 Parsons toured Switzerland
with Australian violinist Beryl Kimber.
In 1957 the ABC invited him for his
first tour back in Australia to accompany
Richard Lewis. In 1959 he again visited
Australia, this time with Mattiwilda
Dobbs. In 1963 he toured Australia with
violinist Tibor Varga.
His latest tour with Victoria de Los
Angeles is still fresh in the public
memory. Of Victoria de Los Angeles
Parsons says: “She is one of the greatest
artists I have ever played for.
“One of the things that make her so
great is her complete and utter natural-
ness in everything she does. Some artists
work everything out and you get more
or less the same performance each time,
but with Victoria tempos change, phras-
ings change, emotions, expressions and
everything else change and all the time
she remains whole, spontaneous and
natural. After she has worked everything
out, her heart takes over.”
Although quietly in the background,


like the master accompanist he is, Ger-
ald Moore has been very important in
Geoffrey Parsons’ life. Parsons says: “He
has probably done more for me than I
shall ever find out.”
Parsons’ activities have taken him all
over Europe and the British Isles. He
has played at all the important British
festivals. He went to South Africa with
American violinist Erick Friedman, to
Portuguese East and West Africa with
Ruggiero Ricci, to Russia with Canadian
baritone Donald Bell, and to the US
with Elizabeth Schwarzkopf. He has
played with singers Marilyn Horne and
Joan Hammond and with ’cellists Gas-
par Cassado and Paul Tortelier. He ap-
pears on 50 per cent of the BBC TV
recitals.
About his future engagements Parsons
did not say much, other than that he
knew exactly what he would be doing
until November next year, and that he
would be in Japan in October with
Elizabeth Schwarzkopf.
The Turn of the TV Screws
By PATRICK TENNISON
11/Ith television offering such attrac-
tions as “Gilligan’s Island”, “Tell
the Truth”, “Harry Truman’s Conflicts”
and films “The Girl in the Red Velvet
Swing” and “Strategic Command”, it was
hardly surprising only 250 people turned
up to the well publicised forum at St
Martin’s Theatre, Melbourne, to hear
a distinguished panel debate “The Future
of Australian Television”. Perhaps those
who stayed away decided that what each
distinguished speaker would say was
entirely predictable. The 250 most likely
cling resolutely to the old adage about
constant dripping. The debate was
organised by the Radio, TV and Screen
Writers’ Guild.
Most of the speakers verbally tossed
sums of money around with more
abandon than they are accustomed :o
doing in practice. The only measure of
agreement among any of the speakers
was that there should be a pooling of
talents, facilities, equipment, know-how,
etc., to see if from such a mountain
perhaps an Australian TV programme
mouse could be produced to roar at the
teeth of fat, rich American networks.
Sir Charles Moses even had a name
ready for it The National Television
Film Council. It would be managed by
two representatives from the ABC, two
from the Federation of Commercial TV
Stations, one from the Commonwealth
Film Unit, one from the Broadcasting
Control Board, one from the Treasury
(“they’d want someone to keep an eye
on their money, I imagine”) and a couple
of representatives from the independent
production companies. A Government
grant of £lOO,OOO would keep it financial
for a while and local productions could
be born, using the best talents available
directed by the best management people.
Retired advertising man turned radio
commentator Mr R. R. Walker believed
much the same could be done for only
half the money and by an outfit with
an equally patriotic but slightly different
name: The Commonwealth Television
Film Unit. He would let only the corn-
mercial and national TV stations have
a say.
Scriptwriter Jeff Underhill hadn’t given
the hoped-for offspring a name but he
made everyone do a lot of mental
arithmetic. He estimated (incorrectly as
it turned out) that each capital city com-
mercial station gets £250 for each one-
minute commercial it shows. If each
station would give the income from six
one-minute commercials each month
there would be £9OOO per month to
produce Australian shows which would
be sold back very cheaply to the stations.
Mr Len Mauger, general manager of
ATV-0, very smartly assured him that
all capital city stations did not get £250
for each one-minute ad. Mr Underhill
promptly suggested they could each con-
tribute the revenue from 12 one-minuters
monthly as well as the country stations.
All told, there was a lot of duck-
shoving like that. Sir Charles said the
ABC couldn’t possibly produce any more
Australian shows than it was doing in
its fully programmed studios. If it
wanted more studios, it was four years
from the time of decision-making to
the time of occupancy, such are the
workings of bureaucracy. But the
ABC had cracked the overseas sales
barrier; the American NBC network had
shown one of its dramas and three had
been sold to Canada and three to the
UK.
Mr Walker pointed out that the US
buyer had been CBS, not NBC, and that
it had been an exchange deal and not a
straightout sale. Sir Charles responded
with an “Even so —” shrug.
Mr Mauger whacked everyone. “Those
in power” should not have tried to
extract so many grand promises from
licence applicants. Now they were
putting licence fees up as much as 400
per cent. Even scenery bore 12i per cent
sales tax. And the industry received no
favored treatment regarding Australian
production. The cold facts were that
viewers were not so keen on Australian
productions. In less than a year, ATV-0
had lost a quarter of a million pounds
on its live productions.
Mr lan Jones, director of “Homicide”
which is now in the local top 10 ratings-
wise, gave some of the facts of local
TV life. In its first 26 weeks, his series
lost £15,000. But now no further losses
were expected and the fact that it was
successful in ratings and revenue against
opposition, in Melbourne, of “Dick Van
Dyke”, “Danny Kaye”, and a film, showed
that local shows could succeed. When
Mr Mauger interjected that “Homicide”
was hardly the type of show to be
terribly proud of, Mr Jones insisted that
he took pride in the fact that two Aus-
tralian detectives had now replaced an
American tin star as the symbol of law
enforcement for thousands of people.
"What time does this Renaissance finish?"


‘ARE YOU A TRUSTEE?'
If you are a Trustee of the Will or Settlement
of a relative or friend you may be finding
that the responsibilities and duties take up
most of your spare time.
You can hand over this responsibility by re-
tiring in favour of Winchcombe Carson
Trustee Company Limited or, if preferred,
appoint the Company to act as your Co-
Trustee, thus ensuring continuity of control
coupled with specialised attention.
Might we suggest, if you are in this position,
that you give earnest consideration to the
problem.
We would be pleased to discuss this aspect
and any other of the ancillary functions and
services of the Company with you, without
obligation.
WINCHCOMBE CARSON TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
48 Bridge Street, Sydney. Telephone 2-0552
Associate Companies:
Winchcombe Carson Trustee Company (Canberra) Ltd.
Winchcombe Carson Executors & Agency (Queensland)
Pty. Ltd.
Post this coupon for free brochure to:
Winchcombe Carson Trustee Co. Ltd.
48 Bridge Street, Sydney
Please forward me your free brochure.
Name .
Address
’ jd MJI 8(
FILMS
Among Friends
My Fair Lady. Director, George Cukor.
Century Theatre. Sydney.
Mirage. Director, Edward Dmytryk. State
Theatre, Sydney.
Familiarity hasn’t bred contempt of “My
Fair Lady”, which is still a very charm-
ing and entertaining show; but the film
version does lack the original excitement.
Time and long acquaintance have dulled
the edges; we greet the climaxes and the
jokes as old friends rather than as
delightful surprises this is especially
noticeable in the scene of Eliza’s gaffe
in the Ascot sequence.
George Cukor has made no attempt
to treat it in specifically cinematic style.
Instead he’s made it on a bigger, more
expensive stage, with deliberately
theatrical sets used even for the outdoor
sequences. Cecil Beaton’s film designs
have an almost overpowering marsh-
mallow prettiness, but one misses the
subtler wit of his stage costumes and
decor.
Still there’s a great deal to enjoy. The
production is as smooth as cream; the
dialogue and lyrics are as funny as ever
and the music as engaging—incidentally
the .score, like the rest of the show, has
been prettied-up with a rather overly
lush orchestration and the cast, of
course, is of the highest class. It would
be hard to overpraise Rex Harrison’s
performance as the egocentric Higgins;
his spontaneity and warmth never give
a hint of the countless times he has
played the role. Wilfrid Hyde-White
and Stanley Holloway give him close
competition, and the scene these three
play together is one of the film’s most
successful.
When the film version was .first dis-
cussed, Julie Andrews, the original Eliza,
was both available and willing, but was
not thought to have sufficient box-office
appeal! The producers instead cast
Audrey Hepburn, who looks enchanting
but can’t dance very much and doesn’t
sing at all her musical numbers have
been dubbed, rather poorly, by Marnie
Nixon. Apart from her appealing appear-
ance, Audrey Hepburn is not the ideal
Eliza, particularly in the early sequences;
her Cockney is raucous but inaccurate,
her “dirty face” is that of a porcelain
shepherdess and she never gives a hint
of Eliza’s slum-child toughness.
Hermes Pan’s choreography is unin-
ventive, to say the least; even the
“Embassy Waltz” is treated as a mere
ballroom scene, lavish though it m§,y
be, and “Get Me to the Church on
Time” despite busy camerawork, never
really gets off the ground. Enough of
carping: MFL is richly mounted, un-
demanding entertainment and deserves to
run for ages—which it undoubtedly will.
After a couple of bombs (“The Carpet-
baggers” ard “Where Love Has Gone”)
Edward Dmytryk shows that he’s still
got it as a director. Not that “Mirage”
is back to the standard of “Crossfire”
by a long way but it’s lively, enter-
taining and fast-moving. It’s one of
those amnesia thrillers irresistible to
me about a man who’s not sure
whether he’s a murderer and can’t
fathom why all these hired gunmen are
after him anyway. A good, complicated
script, neat performances and imaginative
black - and - white photography by Joe
MacDonald. A really jolly time-waster.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
OPERA
Sutherland as
“Oedipussy”
Seiniramide, Rossini. Her Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne.
Last week 1700 fortunate people heard
the best singing anyone is likely to hear
in this or any other lifetime. There is
no criticism which can outweigh the
thanks which is due to J. C. Williamson
Theatres for making available—at any
price—a performance of such quality.
The first night of Rossini’s “Semiramide”
was, if possible, an even greater success
than that memorable Lucia only three
short weeks ago. Joan Sutherland ex-
celled her own high standards (are there
any higher?) and produced an almost un-
interrupted three hours of effortless sing-
ing w'hich left no doubt that no other
singer of this century, alive or dead,
could touch her in this part. Not only
did she sing well, but her diction was
well nigh faultless and there was no hint
of any hooting at all.
One would have thought that such sing-
ing by Miss Sutherland would put the
rest of the cast in shadow. Far from
it. Monica Sinclair sang Arsaces, the


When you get off the beaten track there’s a lot of laughs to be had by bargaining for what you purchase.
Who discovered SINGAPORE?
We did! The travel agent started it by explaining it wouldn’t cost a penny
more to stop-over in Singapore, on our way to Europe. On those terms who
would miss the chance to go on a voyage of discovery!
So we came to Singapore. The friendly, cosmopolitan people welcomed us
to their fascinating country and we were set fair to uncover an array of
spectacle and excitement that gave real meaning to the sayirig—‘You see
more of the Orient in Singapore.’ Take a glimpse at this magical island
with us and you too will be taking the first steps towards discovering wonder-
ful Singapore.
SHOPPING like Aladdin’s Caves! You name it—
they’ve got it here, and at prices that make you feel like a king! Singapore
is a duty-free port and that means you can buy the whole world's luxuries
at prices that put the fun back into shopping. Cameras, transistor radios,
rare fabrics, jewellery, and works of art from all over the Orient. All this
and you buy in the friendliest surroundings imaginable. When you get off
the beaten track there’s a lot of laughs to be had by bargaining for what
you purchase.
What could we do when we were offered a 2 band, 8 transistor portable for
A£6! We bought it! And lots of similar bargains: now we can't stop con-
gratulating ourselves.
WEST AUSTRALIANS , do you know that it is
almost as cheap to travel to Singapore as it is to
visit Sydney. In about the same time that it
takes to fly from Perth to Sydney-you could be
setting foot in the heart of the Orient — Singapore.
For lots of exciting information, consult your travel agent about
your stop-over in Singapore or write to Singapore Government
Tourist Information Service, 15 Grosvenor Street, Sydney, 343
Little Collins Street, Melbourne or Industry House, Canberra.
Qiii^dpui*y
/> '
' —*xit
pertmV"->sydnev,. !
4 Huort 25 ./
_CL_
most fiendishly difficult contralto role in
the operatic repertoire, superbly. In the
light of such excellence it would be
carping to even mention minor imper-
fections. She thoroughly deserved the
tremendous ovation she was accorded
and which the management unsuccess-
fully tried to stop by blacking out the
lights. Joseph Rouleau was a fine, vil-
lainous Assur, Joseph Ward managed the
thankless coloratura-tenor part well, and
Clifford Grant once more successfully
defended local honor in a small but
telling part.
In reviewing “Semiramide” I have had
to mention the singers first, for the opera
is a curio which can only succeed when
sung as it was last week. Rossini once
said to Wagner, “I could really have
achieved something if I had been born
a German/’ “Semiramide” proves his
point. It is a shapeless mishmash of
unconnected styles with all its virtues
concentrated on the opportunities for
great singing. But there are ideas and
developments among the usual Rossinian
trivialities which are pre-echoes of styles
not dreamed about in 1823. With a Ger-
man Rossini these ideas might have pro-
duced a whole row of masterpieces dur-
ing the 39 years the Italian rested in
idleness on his laurels.
ELIZABETH HARWOOD...another Lucia.
The plot of “Semiramide”, though
based on a tragedy by Voltaire, does not
bear close inspection today. It concerns
Queen Semiramis, a kind of Babylonian
CEdipussy, who kills her husband, falls
in love with her own son and is acci-
dentally killed by him in the end. To
make matters worse, the part of the son
is written for a contralto, and I have as
yet to meet the woman who can look
like an Assyrian general. Nevertheless,
the score abounds with magnificent set
pieces which keep the audience happily
applauding. The costumes vary from
lovely to brilliant (except for Miss Sin-
clair’s armor) and Tonina Dorati has
designed a good, flexible all-purpose set
to cover all four acts and 14 scenes.


® -
M
m
/
a
E
- ?
I dreamed I was hosing the garden one hot day when suddenly
the water pressure reduced to a mere frustrating trickle. I went
indoors, turned on the kitchen tap. Water came out all right
but rusty. My wife screamed from the shower that the water
in there was scorching her. I called the plumber. He said the
pipes were corroded needed replacing urgently all of
them. He quoted me a price. The shock woke me up.
And then I smiled with relief. I had already paid the plumber
for a quick clean installation job in copper.
The bill was about the same as it would have been for any
other kind of pipes, but copper is for keeps can’t rust or
corrode ever. The water pressure’s wonderful now, and
always will be, thanks to copper. And because of our new
copper pipes our house is worth more. In short, copper pipes
mean I can now sleep easy at nights.
9
COPPER AND BRASS INFORMATION CENTRE
, Northgate House, 321 Kent Street, Sydney, Telephone 29 1831
CB-82
The production also is good, though
necessarily static, and Mr Bonynge can-
not be praised too highly for his hand-
ling of the orchestra, though the famous
overture was beyond the scope of his
small group.
It must be a terrifying thing to follow
Joan Sutherland in the part she has made
her own. Last week I saw Elizabeth
Harwood in “Lucia di Lammermoor”.
Her mad scene was sheer unadultered
joy, clean, smooth and perfectly blended
with its flute accompaniment. Unfor-
tunately, the voice gave out on the last
note, somewhat spoiling the effect.
Clearly Miss Harwood can be a fine
Lucia in the dal Monte-Pons-Pagliughi
tradition. Right now she is either in-
disposed (her next performance was can-
celled) or trying to beat Miss Sutherland
at her own game. I sincerely trust that
it’s the former.
JOHN CARGHER
MUSIC
Dean Dixon’s
Stewardship
Sydney Symphony Orchestra. Conductor,
Dixon. Soloist, Ferras. Sydney Town Hall.
Brahms Berg Meale . . . even on
paper it looked like a triumph of pro-
gramme planning, the kind that we’ve
almost come to believe the ABC in-
capable of. Thanks to Dean Dixon's
growing confidence in his Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra, such planning has not
only become possible but is clearly suc-
cessful. Dixon - this series of concerts
ends his current Australian stay has
cause to be proud and it was obvious, on
this occasion, that he was quite pleased,
too; he appeared more relaxed than on
other occasions and conducted most of
the Brahms with a smile on his face.
The majority of subscribers were be-
wildered by Richard Meale’s music, a
great many of them even by Alban
Berg’s. In view of what they usually get
to hear, their bewilderment is understand-
able —I can understand it only too well!
In October, 1936, a teenager being given
a birthday treat, I was taken to a concert
by the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra
conducted by Otto Klemperer at which
the American violinist, Louis Krasner
(since unheard of) gave the Viennese
premiere of a new violin concerto he’d
commissioned from Alban Berg. Know-
ing no music other than that written
between 1750 and 1900, I was stunned
by incomprehension. What I heard was
profoundly disturbing, but I could not
square it with what I could recognise as
“music”.
Since then I’ve heard this concerto re-


ns
m
Itilffl
3SE
S 3
N
mt
WHY STICK TO POSTAGE STAMPS?
POSTAGE IMPRINTS -
reduce your mail preparation time, control
your postage account. Choose from . . .
PERSONAL IMPRINTS
You print a “Postage Paid” design in advance on
a stock of your envelopes the design may be
your own but it must be approved.
When you make a posting, the total cost is
charged to your account or you simply pay in
cash a receipt is issued. Each posting must be
worth at least £l.
FRANKING MACHINE IMPRINTS
You run your envelopes through a franking
machine which imprints the selected postage value
on each envelope. Your own advertising slogan
can be included in the imprint.
Your postage costs are recorded on the machine’s
meter.
Full information from your local Postmaster or the
Superintendent, Mail Exchange Branch.
AUSTRALIAN POST GFFiCE
COMING TO SYDNEY?
People with an eye for value ...
quote Metropole value as Sydney’s best.
Superb modern rooms, private bathrooms,
air-conditioning, fine foods and all the service
and convenience that a centrally located big
hotel offers.
Double or twin room with private bathroom, 115/-
and 125/-; single with private bathroom, 77/6.
Other rates begin at 45/-.
Write for coloured brochure.
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Bent St., Sydney. 'Ph. 2-0522. Telegrams: “Metropole
Sydney
* / * /
... 5..,
*.•<* ■ *
mm
* ■ * feSft*
.*«■ > jrir v
<*; • ••. m **• Hi
I?;.
f
peatedly, on record as well as live; I’ve
heard much other advanced music and
now, though I still find this a disturbing
work, emotionally disturbing, it has be-
come extremely satisfying as music, a
work that I am genuinely very fond of.
Berg’s violin concerto is the supreme
example of romanticism expressed
through modern idioms, using the new
methods devised by Schonberg in a
traditional tonal fashion. It thus becomes
the best possible argument in favor of
the tone-row, besides being Berg’s finest
composition.
The performance by Christian Ferras
of this great work was quite masterful
and of exceeding beauty. The orchestra
responded splendidly to the Ferras-
Dixon mood, though their discipline
seemed almost excessive.
Richard Meale’s “Homage to Garcia
Lorca”, now heard for the second time,
hit me rather the same way as Berg’s
music had in far-away 1936. Here is a
work that is genuinely and startlingly
original and not easily fitted into existing
experience. It is written with consum-
mate skill and contains some wonderful
shifting colors of sound but, as yet,
cannot be readily assimilated by such
as me. In time, with greater familiarity
born from repeated attentive listening,
the beauty of the music will no douot
emerge much more clearly. At the
present, I can-only be certain that the
work was brilliantly performed and that
it left me avid to hear it again, as soon
as might be.
As neither Meale’s nor Berg’s music is
common fare for our audiences, most
of them settled back in their seats with
something of relief after the interval, to
listen to the familiar Brahms Symphony
No. 1. Dean Dixon, as in other concerts
this season, showed his great liking for
German symnhonic music and his con-
siderable flair for its interpretation.
Dixon’s basic approach to such works is
through strict discipline. His beat is not
alwavs easilv detected by a mere spec-
tator, but his tempi are rigidly set and
adhered to all the way. Not only is the
tempo pre-determined, but every single
phrase in the structure of his interpreta-
tion is firmly set in the conductor’s mind
before his balon is ever raised. It may
well be that such rigidity inhibits any
spontaneous development inherent in the
music, but it must be admitted that such
an approach is well justified in the case
of an orchestra undergoing a rigorous
course of training when deviations from
a set programme could easily prove
disastrous.
This was fine Brahms Dixon’s
Brahms, and it had its finest moments
in the truly graceful allegretto of the
third movement which contained some


.of the best playing I’ve ever heard from
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra. That
this symphony, in this performance, was
such as to please the conductor was
evidenced by his abandonment of the
right-arm sling and his free arm move-
ments, for the first time this season. It is
now clear that the orchestra, playing as
they did on this occasion, in so varied
and satisfying a programme, may reap
far greater acclaim abroad than seemed
possible only a few weeks ago. Dean
Dixon, in these short months, has indeed
wrought well and • deserves ~ the thanks
of every music-lover.
PAUL FROLICH
THEATRE
Bird in a Cage
Something Unspoken. Tennessee Williams.
Lunch Hour Theatre. Q Theatre Group.
AMP Theatrette, Sydney.
“Something Unspoken” is a powerfully
written study of the unacknowledged
lesbian relationship between a rich,
strong-willed Southern lady and the
younger widow who has been her
secretary-companion for 15 years.
The gentle Grace Lancaster is trapped
by her own passivity and need for
security in the benevolent but absolute
despotism of Miss Cornelia Scott. But,
terrified of losing the last shreds of her
freedom, Grace shrinks from the open
display of affection which the stronger
woman craves.
The tension of the situation is both
heightened and given some comic relief
by the attempts of Miss Scott to manipu-
late, by telephone, a meeting of the Con-
federate Daughters of the Revolution
and have herself elected, unopposed, to
the presidency.
Doreen Warburton gives an authorita-
tive performance in the strong character
part of Miss Scott, with her soft Southern
voice and her iron Southern will. She
is excellently supported by Lynne
Murphy as the fragile Grace, fluttering
like a terrified bird against the bars of
a cage.
This highly theatrical production by
Ken Hannan seemed to me a welcome
change from the run of light comedies
we have seen recently at the Q Theatre.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
Girls, Glitter
Windmill Revue. Tivoli, Sydney.
Sheila van Damm’s Windmill Revue at
the Tivoli Theatre, Sydney, opened its
Australian season still plugging its “we
never closed” slogan. But London’s
LYNNE MURPHY in tho Q's "Something
Unspoken".
famous “Windmill”, the only theatre to
remain open throughout World War
Two, did close last year.
The “Windmill” seemed no different
from other revues (and it certainly was
no better) but it had its moments, its
acrobats, its magician, its comedy pair,
its girls. Something lacked; it may well
have been the unresponsive first-night
audience which really warmed only to
the antics of Dailey and Wayne, the
comedy team.
Jan and Kelly overstayed their wel-
come with sick gags and mimicry.
Nonetheless, they were entertaining
enough and drew the audience in with
their car-ride sequence on a rear pro-
jected film, an overworked but success-
ful gimmick.
Girls, glamor, glitter, laughs galore,
said the publicity sheet; and girls, glamor,
glitter and laughs it was.
GORDON CHESTERMAN
TELEVISION
Tailor-made for
Technicians
There are many times when a reviewer’s
dnly possible reaction is to sit like a
stunned mullet wondering was it all a
ridiculous dream, and finally peering
around to discover whether he is alone
in all this. When the work which evoked
such feelings was on ABC television it is
even more difficult to decide the issue
by trying other viewers for pitch. They
were watching Perry Mason, Robert
Mitchum, or Mavis Brummagem. Last
week my troubles were increased by the
hooroo the ABC had made over a coming
triumph of wit and satire called “The
Sweet Sad Story of Elmo and Me”,
written by Ric Throssell and produced
by Henri Safran.
That is nearly all I intend to write
about this play. Instead, I will speculate
on the strange workings of the inner-
most or uppermost levels of conscious-
ness in ABC minds. Fairly recently
ABC Television Drama began to buy
some half-hour plays, with the intention
of encouraging the fledgelings to walk a
little before trying to run up the sides of
Everest, as most of our television play-
wrights have been doing.
One of these appeared on the small
screen about four weeks ago, with a
fraction of the praise before the fact
accorded to “Elmo and Me”. “The Quiet
Season” was written by John Cameron
whose earlier, longer dramas did not
elate me. Intelligently produced by John
Croyston, it had everything but a good
time-slot. It was buried after the late
news. The duty announcer urged viewers
to stay up for it, and I hope some did.
They would have found that “The
Quiet Season” was one of those small
plays requiring sensitive management,
and this Croyston achieved in a masterly
way. He also used outside film of trees,
rocks and waves to suggest the locale,
passages of time, even action which had
occurred. The story was about a man
who meets a spinster during a holiday
visit, likes her, but flees marriage, re-
turns the next year more determined and
finds her unhappily married to someone
else.
That is not wildly dramatic material,
nor a new plot, but it has poignant, bitter-
sweet possibilities, and, for once, these
were fully realised by the camera and
the actors. Often, darting close-ups were
used to catch a fleeting expression, a
small, quick gesture. Croyston, better
known for his radio productions, will
be worth watching as a television man.
“Elmo and Me” was not in the same
street. Its only good satirical point, raised
and let fall limply, was the comparison of
the ethics children are taught and those
they are shown on television. Little Elmo
caught on quickly and reduced the Gold-
en Rule to “you do me and I’ll undo
you”. But within minutes he had grown
up, lost his discernment, and become a
witless youth going nowhere.
As usual, the ABC’s publicity section
confused matters by telling us that Ron
Haddrick, as Dig, “is a happy and un-
complicated man until a wave of pros-
perity catches up with him”. None of
this was visible to me. Or, equally sen-
sibly, I am led to remark, “Oh, is that
what was happening in there?”
I am afraid that, once again, someone
has tried to satirise 20 recent years of life


'
'lb*.
i
llitll
I
Va
y \
Approach to Merdeka Bridge , Singapore
HONGKONG!BANGKOK
UMTS
MALAYSIA
Mwmnmnm iMPsn
WEEKLY
FREQUENCIES
SINGAPORE/HONGKONG -8
KUALA LUMPUR/HONGKONG "2
JESSELTON/HONGKONG-21
PENANG/BANGKOK »3|
KUALA LUMPUR/BANGKOK-3
SINGAPORE/BANGKOK -6
MALAYSIAN AIRWAYS
MALAYSIA’S NATIONAL AIRLINE-SERVING SOUTH EAST ASIA
m
mMm
$ EXCEPT WEDNESDAY
CONSULT YOUR
TRAVEL AGENT
OR QANTAS.
OUR GENERAL
SALES AGENTS
IN AUSTRALIA
in Australia in less than one hour, which
is patently impossible. It is easy to
understand the appeal of such a gimmicky
play as “Elmo and Me”. It was tailor-
made for technicians. But not for audi-
ences.
DALE MILLER
Mavis Without
Michael
The first two episodes of the Bramston
Show produced since the death of its
executive producer, Mihcael Plant, con-
firm that major surgery is required
urgently if Australia’s most popular tele-
vision programme is to preserve its pre-
sent pre-eminence in the audience-
measurement charts.
For some months now the show has
been slipping into the slothfulness that
sometimes accompanies undreamed-of
success. To a spasmodic observer of this
very mixed grill, it would appear that both
performers and producers are now suffi-
ciently complacent to believe that it is
only necessary to fill the screen with the
faces of Chater, Raye and Creyton and,
hey presto, you have a hit. (How Miriam
Karlin will work with this cosy trio
remains to be seen.)
When will performers realise there is
no place for house-jokes, “ad libs” or
any other irritating condescensions in a
pre-taped show which depends completely
for its effect on tightly-scripted move-
ment and timing?
For some weeks now it has been obvi-
ous that the Bramston cast, with the
notable exception of Mr Chater, are not
even bothering to learn their lines and
are increasingly dependent on “idiot
sheets”. All this unforgivable sloppiness
could be fixed by a producer determined
enough to drive his cast to the limit of
their considerable abilities.
More serious indeed and certainly
more difficult to overcome is the fast-
fading quality of the scripts that are
being used week after week. From the
credits it would appear that the show is
now written by a contracting clique of
writers whose material is growing as
predictable as the coming of spring. Last
week there was yet another story about
Vietnam, this time depending upon clum-
sily contrived and clearly visible strings
that jerked portions of an army uniform
off the overworked torso of Barry Crey-
ton, who, undismayed, reappeared a few
minutes later in yet another jacket, to
take part in yet another song, about yet
another callous young motorist.
Perhaps these songs do have a purpose
of some sort. But why, oh why, can’t
they at least be tuneful or even funny?
Absurd as it may appear at first glance,
the amusing thought occurs that a satiri-
cal revue, which is what the Bramston
Show once was, really has a lot in com-
mon with a television commercial. The
object is to get the message over in the
most effective way you can. Whether you
are selling soap, stirring a social cons-
cience or merely being funny, the same
techniques are equally available. The pro-
ducer must hit hard and fast and then
get on with something else.
Certainly the “Mavis Bramston Show*'
would be vastly improved if the same
degree of technical competence and effort
was put into its production as is usually
involved in the production of a 60-seeond
detergent commercial.
RICHARD WILLIAMS


ANCESTRY TRACED
Historical research can help you discover your
British Ancestors. When writing olease give
information already known.
BROOKS & SIMPSON
Genealogists
5 FENCHURCH STREET, LONDON, E.C.3.
BOOKS
Why I Fought
By J. T. LANG
The Rallying Point. My Story of the New
New Guard. Eric Campbell. Melbourne
University Press. 355.
IF you wait long enough in this life
and if you really believe in what
you have done it seems that the
evidence will turn up to provide com-
plete vindication of your actions and
your beliefs. Now after a third of a
century Colonel Eric Campbell, leader
of the New Guard, has seen fit to set
down on paper his personal recollections
of the organisation he created in the
middle of the Depression. After read-
ing what he has written and recalling my
own knowledge of the times, I must say
that the book justifies everything I
believed at the time and that nothing
he says in any way proves that I was
not right in every action I took to deal
with what I regarded as a highly
dangerous subversive organisation plot-
ting to overthrow the Constitution of
New South Wales by adopting many of
the tactics promulgated by Lenin for
the use of Communist underground
Organisations.
Colonel Campbell has not been able
to rely on written documents as he says
most of them were destroyed by a fire
at his homestead in 1946. So the book
is based principally on his personal recol-
lections. It is not unkind to suggest that
his memory is most defective in recalling
the chrono'ogical order of many of the
key events. It also fails in that it lacks
objectivity of judgment in evaluating his
antagonists—not his political opponents
bub rather other people whom he re-
garded as his rivals in the same field of
operation. That applies particularly to
what he terms the Old Guard, already
formed by Philip Goldfinch and Robert
Gillespie.
I knew all about the New Guard plans
to get rid of me but I refused to take
them seriously. I believed at the time
that the NSW police had the situation
completely under control and there is
nothing in the Campbell book that
suggests that my confidence in Superin-
tendent Mac Kay was in any way mis-
placed. Campbell’s personal attitude to-
wards Mac Kay is fully reflected in his
description of their first meeting where
he describes him as “a big, well-built
man, wearing a rather battered panama
hat, a sloppy ill-fitting washing coat,
baggy grey trousers and dusty shoes
with an ugly face that disclosed the
urgent need for expert dental attention”.
That is certainly not how I remember
Willie John. He was always well
groomed and a highly intelligent police
officer. I rather suspect the author
bitterly resented the fact that Mac Kay
was always one step ahead of the New
Guard. He planted one of his men in
its inner executive and was posted on
every move they were making. When
he found that the New Guard was trying
to recruit trade unionists to give it an
air of democratic respectability the
wives of many CIB men were kept
wondering why their husbands had so
many meetings to attend at night and
invariably wore their shabbiest clothing
on their nocturnal activities. Mac Kay
reported direct to me, and time after
time we were able to scotch a New
Guard coup although it must be admitted
that at times Willie John condoned his
blooded veterans. Each member had *o
sign a kind of military attestation paper.
Then they were divided into locality
areas with zone commanders and
divisional commanders and Campbell
himself was given the title of Chief
Commander, but was recognised soon as
simply leader of the New Guard retain-
ing his military title.
The Goldfinch-Gillespie Old Guard
had the edge on the new movement as
far as finances went. According to
Campbell, the Bank of New South Wales
provided them with an overdraft of
£25,000 whereas he said no one in his
organisation “had the foggiest idea about
finances”. Much of it came from volun-
tary contributions at the secret meetings.
Campbell’s account gives far too
much space to piffling details of organisa-
tional meetings, and indulges in too much
name dropping, although being a lawyer
he is quite obviously fully aware of the
provisions of the Defamation (of the
Dead) Act as well as about libel of the
living. I must agree that there is nothing
in the book to which I might take
personal objection, even though I might
object to one crude reference to my bull
at Ebenezer.
Of those whom he contacted while en-
listing support, I find the reference to
the late Sir Earle Page rather amusing.
He decided that the old Doc was far too
militant for his purposes. Another, who
“Would that mine enemy would write a book**
men employing braw Scotch methods
involving use of their muscular reserves.
Campbell’s account of how the New
Guard was formed is most interesting.
The idea came, it seems, from a Major
Scott, who in 1925, during the seamen’s
strike, conceived the idea of recruiting a
force of AIF veterans to deal out direct
action to Walsh and Johnson, then thorns
in the flesh of the Bruce-Page Govern-
ment.
Campbell tells of n secret meeting jf
eight former AIF officers at the Imperial
Services Club in O’Connell Street on
February 16, 1931, when it was agreed
to form an organisation to be called the
New Guard. Its twin objectives were
to be to fight the Lang Plan and Com-
munism. That is an interesting admission
seeing that the Lang Plan was in fact
enunciated first at the Premiers’ Con-
ference in Canberra later in the same
month.
The idea was that the New Guard was
to comprise an inner core of 10 mem-
bers plus the convenors and that each
member would recruit another ten, who
in turn would be responsible for finding
a further 10, so that the organisation
would start with 1000 experienced battle
seems to have scared the pants off him,
was a well-known opponent of mine at
that time, Eric Baume, who these days
can often be heard proclaiming Lang is
Still Right in his radio sessions.
The really big question left un-
answered by the book is the extent to
which the New Guard derived its ideas
and plan of action from Fascism in Italy
and Nazism in Germany. Campbell
rebuts both counts of any such indict-
ment, but if he didn’t realise to what
extent his movement drew its inspiration
from Mussolini and Hitler, I must say
that he was too politically naive to be
in charge of the organisation.
The New Guard, like the Fascist
Party in Italy and the National Socialist
Party in Germany, recruited its members
from the ranks of frustrated veterans
of World War I. Mussolini and Hitler
would never have been more than ex-
corporals if they had not found patrons
who recognised their talents as agitators
and propagandists. Mussolini was an
associate of Lenin in Switzerland and
learned from him the art of pamphleteer-
ing and street advocacy. Hitler was dis-
covered by wealthy interests anxious to
destroy the Social Democratic Govern-
ment of Germany at any cost. He was


ERIC CAMPBELL
J. T. LANG
the tool of men like Fritz von Thyssen
and Alfred Krupps. Both Mussolini and
Hitler employed the leader idea for
party discipline. Both employed street
fighting as the means of carrying the
message to the mass audience. The New
Guard once it emerged from the shadows
of Masonic Temples, church halls and
suburban drawing rooms armed itself
for combat at street meetings. So there
were wild nights at Kings Cross, Banks-
town and Liverpool with the New Guard
swinging axe handles and their opponents
using bicycle chains to defend them-
selves.
Like the Brownshirts in Berlin
and the Blackshirts in Rome, the New
Guard wore armlets showing their
category and rank. Campbell says he
personally objected to Hitler’s treatment
of the Jews but admits that his con-
stitution embraced the doctrine of
election and selection advocated by
Italian Fascism. He tries to argue that
the main purpose of the New 7 Guard w ; as
to defend and maintain essential services
in an industrial or political crisis.
YTe makes no mention of the Berrima
Gaol plot or the abortive attempt to
kidnap me one night on Parramatta
Road while returning to my home in
Auburn. Of course, as expected, he
gives a highly colored account of the
De Groot incident at the opening of the
Harbor Bridge which backfired when
once again Superintendent Mac Kay
thought and acted too fast for the plan
to be a complete success.
Tw'o incidents recalled by Campbell
in the book have served to provide me
with explanations of happenings over
which I have often been puzzled. First
there was the part played by the Gover-
nor-General, Sir Isaac Isaacs, in my dis-
missal by Governor Game. Isaacs has
always been held up as the very model
of judicial propriety. Yet De Groot
rode on to the Harbor Bridge in non-
descript uniform, mounted on a horse
that was shaggy and unkempt in appear-
ance, as a member of Sir Isaac Isaacs’
military escort party. A junior officer in
charge of the detail should have detected
him as a ring-in immediately, particularly
as he was wearing a sword on horseback
in his belt instead of in the saddle in
approved military style.,
Campbell tells how he attended an
investiture at Government House to
receive an Efficiency Award some time
after my dismissal. He records what
happened: “After the ceremony when
we were enjoying a glass of champagne,
Sir Isaac Isaacs beckoned me over to
where he was standing and grasping my
hand told me that he had it in command
from His Majesty the King to thank me
personally for my work in the New
Guard and to this the G-G offered his
own sincere congratulations”. I have
waited all these years for the confirma-
tions of suspicions conveyed to me by
the Attorney-General, Joe Lamaro, and
now I have them from this strangest
quarter of all.
The other incident relates to another
inveterate antagonist of those times, Sir
Robert Gibson, chairman of the Com-
monwealth Bank with whom I had locked
horns over the closing of the Govern-
ment Savings Bank of New South Wales.
Campbell tells the story in these words:
“One day he met Sir Robert Gibson
in Bligh Street and he said: ‘Don’t you
think it is high time the New Guard did
something?’ ‘What would you suggest?’
/ asked, not concealing my surprise.
‘That’s up to you,’ he said. ‘Lang has
got to be stopped and that is what
the New Guard was formed for, wasn’t
it?’ And off he strode looking very
cranky.”
That confirms everything I was told
by the Under-Secretary of the Treasury.
C. R. Chapman, about a conversation
he had with Sir Robert Gibson during
a Premiers’ Conference in Melbourne
prior to the 1930 elections when Gibson
went white with horror when Chapman
expressed the personal opinion that I
was likely to win. “Lang is a devil
incarnate. We can’t have it happen,”
said Gibson to the public servant, who
would be required by oath to serve the
Government whichever party won.
The part of the story I found to be
most unsatisfactory was the absence of
a clear explanation as to how the New
Guard was liquidated so quickly after
my dismissal. It seems that he took a
trip overseas and in London met Sir
Oswald Mosley, leader of the British
Fascist Party, who gave him letters of
introduction to Mussolini and Hitler. In
Berlin, Hitler was out of the city but
he was greeted by Ernst (Putzi) Hanf-
staengl (the notorious pander), Von
Ribbentrop and Alfred Rosenberg, the
Fuehrer’s deputies, and a Major Schmidt
with whom he exchanged reminiscences
of the First World War. In Rome
II Duce was also out of town but Mos-
ley’s letter got him an interview with
Starace, secretary of the Fascist organisa-
tion. “I was deeply impressed with the
regimes in both Germany and Italy” is
how he sums up his impressions.
Another small incident caused me wry
laughter. It seems his firm was ad-
ministering an estate belonging to mem-
bers of his wife’s family. Amongst the
assets was a block of flats, but with the
Depression the tenants could not pay
their rent. If he reduced the rents he
could not pay the interest owing. So
Campbell decided to reduce the in-
terest he was paying from 7 per cent
to 3 per cent. So the avowed opponent
of the Lang Plan was amongst the first
to invoke its provisions. The client then
took the lower rents being offered and
kept the flats until 1936 when he sold
them and came out square. Another
example of vindication.
Italian Reliquaries
The sharp splendor of silver leaves
that cut curved patterns in the glass,
the stained petals of the roses,
tarnished stems twisting over bones
stale with death; metal hearts, marble
saints, idiot-faced madonnas.
The museum of the church fills
with communicants, girls like dolls
in white, hooped dresses and the old
with fears of illness and disease,
credulous children that neither
understand nor reject. Flere death
is not the child’s game of burial
under warm sand at the beach where
the waves flash sunlight in dazzled
eyes and you sleep in a cocoon
of the sun. Here are decayed skulls,
shattered faces that despise
the ornaments of sickly gold,
the curious stares of peasants
who will buy a postcard, a cheap
crucifix and will admire
the cosmetic bliss of a plastic
Mary, a smiling Saint Francis.
W. J LILLYMAN


PARLIAMENTARY
LIBRARY OFFICERS
CANBERRA
The COMMONWEALTH PARLIAMENTARY
LIBRARY invites applications for permanent
appointment to the following positions:
Assistant Librarian Grade 3, £1360-£1604
(Male); £1159-£1403 (Female), VPI.
Duties: Organisation of and bibliographic
services in relation to government and United
Nations documents.
Assistant Librarian Grade 3, £1360-£1604
(Male); £1159-El 403 (Female), VP2.
Duties: Ready reference; assistance with
other enquiries; supervision of loan and other
general Reeding Room services.
Qualifications: L.Ai.A. Registration or its
equivalent. Appropriate experience, preferably
in a major research library.
Assistant Librarian Grade 1, £621—£1360
(Male, £1055 at age 21); £572-£1159 (Female,
£854 at age 21).
Duties: Processing of serials and official
documents.
Qualifications: Matriculation. Some library
experience desirable.
■ THE WORK is interesting and provides oppor-
tunity for men and women of good personality,
capacity and a sense of responsibility to enter
a service which will provide a worthwhile
career.
APPLICATIONS to the PARLIAMENTARY
LIBRARIAN, Parliament House, Canberra,
A.C.T., by August 16, 1965.
Religious Sexuality
By R. M. WILDING
A Green Tree in Geddc. Alan Sharp.
Michael Joseph. 31s. 6d.
Figures of Speech. D. J. Enright. Heine-
mann. 295. 6d.
When the man in the cafe appears at
Ruth’s door, having waited for her to
arrive at her flat, knowing her address
from the letter from her brother, with
whom she has been having an affair--
the letter that she had left in the cafe
when she rushed out from the man’s
advances that wet Sunday, when the
man, called Matthew Feely, greets her,
opens his macintosh, and begins to
masturbate, we get the point that sex
can be a terrible, terrifying thing.
The affair with her brother Cuffee,
after all, was evoked with a delicacy
and warmth and kindness with a
warmth that Cuffee, in his promiscuous
beddings on the Continent, fails to show,
unless perhaps to Harry, his friend of
National Service days, who goes to Paris
with him and, refusing the advances of
a nymphomaniac discarded by Cuffee,
wonders if he is a homosexual, but
decides, despite the opportunities offered
him by the American poet Kimber, not
to try that experience either, and returns
home, escorting a Cuffee beaten up by
a couple of lesbians, finally to sleep
D. J. ENRIGHT
(Harry, this time) with the waiting Ruth.
But single sentences cannot contain the
range of experience embraced in Alan
Sharp’s first part of his trilogy.
There is also Moseby, wife and child,
and the mistress he acquires, and his
tutor’s wife who offers herself at the
end for the beginning of volume two;
the Cuffee parents and their menage;
Harry's family and family history. The
amount that Alan Sharp covers is
prodigious, and his control of language
wonderful. Perhaps he delves too often
into the esoteric dialect phrase or the
showy technically right word, perhaps
he seems too self-consciously showing
off his amazingly rich and varied vocabu-
lary; but it is a vocabulary normally that
is integrated with his whole novel, his
prose can cope with his incredible themes
and render them convincingly, attrac-
tively, movingly. For all the varieties of
sexual experience that are his concern
there is rarely any suggestion that he
is dealing with people so peculiar as to
be unrepresentative. Sex never becomes
anything less than his concern, but it
does become also a monstrous image for
the view of life he presents. Harry’s
forebear, the preacher who roamed
England and Scotland with sermons of
God’s and life’s fecundity, getting his
prettier followers with child and prac-
tising his doctrine of the greatness of
the love of God (one of his sermons,
which falls into the hands of Moseby
is printed) suggests not simply an exten-
sion of the sexual varieties but a way
of seeing in all the sexual endeavor a
religion or rationale of life; and perhaps
Cuffee’s painting is there to suggest in
sex, art, as well as through art, sex.
“A Green Tree in Gedde” is a book
I would want to read again in, say, five
years’ time, to reconsider how much of
the Baldwin theme and the Amis world,
how much of the provincial life with
child and mother-in-law, and the expatri-
ate Parisian bohemia is simply a mid-
twentieth century modishness, a mag-
nificent melange of all the current
fictional images, and how far it is a truly
impressive, and indeed great, novel. But
it certainly has a sureness and boldness
and richness that make it distinctive
amongst current fiction.
D. J. Enright’s “Figures of Speech” is
a pleasant, wry work. George Lester is
an English professor under contract to
the British Council; but the British Coun-
cil doesn’t like its employees “writing
poems and that sort of thing”. And the
lecture he gives on amusing misuses of
English to a prestige audience in Bang-
kok, though amusing the audience, fails
to amuse the British Council. So that
when George gets involved in a fight with
fifteen Thai policemen outside a brothel,
and ends up in gaol—singing Japanese
folk songs with some fellow prisoners—
his future is pretty clear. It’s slight, and
though there are some interesting com-
parisons of Chinese and European litera-
ture. and some observations on East and
West, the story of Chung Lu and Mattie
never gets involving, and the writing
rarely has the interest that the title
“Figures of Speech” might encourage us
to look for.
Woomera
Letters from the hinterland
Bring news, slightly disturbing
To the city-dwellers.
They talk at some length
Of the white tower, which can be glimpsed,
Climbing through sands,
Or stalking the holy sky,
Omnipotent in the sunset.
Fires burn on unseen perimeters
And the dancers seem slightly hesitant.
They flicker into shadows.
The Minis have long departed,
But some say their voices were heard
Only the other night,
Filled with a new grimness,
Frightening in their intensity.
All this is mentioned in the letters.
Old rocks are scrutinized carefully
But the gods are of no help whatsoever.
“We fear they have departed forever,”
Say the messages.
Personally I am unsure what to believe,
But I tend to agree with the writers.
“We are so far away from it all.
We find it difficult to believe.
There is no precedent.
They are uneducated, too gullible,
Not really in touch with
The situation as a whole,”
Say the coast-dwellers.
Their dream hangs
One foot above the launching pad.
Their feet are burning.
ALEX ABERNETHY


m
For you . . .
only the best
Here's the camera that is the ultimate choice
of discriminating professional and enthusiastic
amateur photographers all over the world; the
camera that brings you picture perfection
and personal prestige.
Asahi PENTAX introduces you to a new world
of photographic delight! A wide choice of
incomparable Takumar lenses and a full range
of accessories puts you in command of every
photographic situation.
Asahi PENTAX SV with f/1.8 Takumar
Lens and E.R. case, £9O/0/0.
Asahi PENTAX S.I.A with Auto Super
Takumar f/2 Lens and E.R. case,
£75/0/0.
Ask to see Asahi PENTAX at YOUR photo
A New Guinea Journal
By OWEN HARRIES
New Guinea, Vol. 1, Nos 1 and 2. Editor
Peter Hastings. Published by the Council
on New Guinea Affairs. 555.
As an object of study, Australians have
until recently been content to leave New
Guinea almost entirely to the anthro-
pologists and the defence experts. In
the last two years things have changed
not dramatically, but significantly.
There is now a group of “second-wave”
students of the New' Guinea scene,
separated from earlier specialists by the
nature of their interests as well as by
the extent of their ignorance. These
late-comers are interested in the island
not as one of the last laboratories for
the study of primitivism, nor as a mere
appendage of Australia, but as a fascina-
ting local example of a backward country
moving rapidly towards independence,
and facing and creating major problems
in the process. Soon it w'ill have re-
placed Indonesia as “our nearest neigh-
bor”.
“New Guinea” is meant to cater for,
and to extend the ranks of, people with
such an interest. It was badly needed.
Until its appearance it was easy to excuse
one’s ignorahce. In future, thanks to
the Council on New' Guinea Affairs, it
will be more difficult.
In the first two numbers of “New
Guinea”, Peter Hastings has aimed at
a very comprehensive coverage: Rowley
and Kerr on the implications of White
Australia for New' Guinea. Coombs and
Curtin on the economy, Fink on race
relations, Spate on the University, Josey
and Warner on South-East Asia. There
are statements by John Guise, Tom
Mboya and Oala Rarua. And this list
is far from exhaustive.
Mr Hastings works with limited re-
sources and all this amounts to an im-
pressive performance. Yet the generality
of the treatment in these issues—w'hich
means that most often articles are rather
short—raises a question: is this to be the
regular pattern for the journal, or have
these first numbers deliberately cast their
nets widely in order to provide a good
general picture for readers w'hose interest
in New Guinea is new? If the latter,
then there can be no complaint. But if
this is to be the continuing pattern, I
think it will be a pity, for it means
some of the advantages of a specialised
journal may be sacrificed.
Some of these advantages are: that it
can from time to time go to town on a
particular aspect of its subject, devoting
up to half an issue or more to it; that
it can act as a journal of record (as,
for example, “The China Quarterly”
does with its section “Quarterly Chronicle
and Documentation”); and that it can
attempt to develop a theoretical frame-
work within which particular studies and
problems can be placed and related. On
this last point, there is in these numbers
a disappointing absence of reference to
theoretical wrnrk which has been done
on underdeveloped countries; a more
ambitious book section could help in this
respect.
Perhaps Mr Hastings has some of
these things in mind. Perhaps the lack
of resources (particularly writers) make
some of them impracticable. In any case,
one should not allow the wish for per-
fection to divert one from extending a
warm welcome to such an excellently
produced and timely new journal.
Baylebridge
By JAMES McAULEY
Salvage. (Collected Works of William Bayle-
bridge, Vol. IV.) Edited by P. R. Stephen-
sen. Angus and Robertson. 30s.
The fourth volume of Baylebridge’s
Collected Works contains revised texts of
early poems sonnets, narratives, lyrics
and the “Sextains”, gnomic verses
published in 1940 which the blurb says
“may be considered as a final statement
of Baylebridge's philosophical ideas”.
One w'ishes that the late P. R. Stephen-
sen had shown more restraint in his
intemperate remarks in the preface.
His huffing and puffing cannot get rid
of the sad truth that Baylebridge was
quite mistaken in thinking he had a
vocation for poetry. Language may not
be,- as some modern critics seem to
suggest, everything in poetry, but without
authentic vital language the poetry does
not happen. And this is w'hat Bayle-
bridge lacked: “He w'rit no language”—
what he used for his poems w'as that
dreadful no-man’s-diction which col-
lected at the end of the nineteenth cen-
tury as the detritus of romanticism. A
wizard like de la Mare could pick this
rubbish over, and sometimes succeed in
transmuting parts of it to a last gleam;
a powerful mind like Brennan's could
occasionally do something wdth it. though
it practically choked and ruined his
talent.
But Baylebridge has no chance. Here
w <q find the usual w'ords and phrases:
“boon”, “sooth”, “tranced dreams”, “a
magic song, of wonder wild”, “prate”,
“the popular maw”, “jest”, “drouth”.
And unfortunately there is no ear, no
sense of tone. Let this description of
a dancer serve as an awful example:
Ho, ho, is that not dainty?
It gives a man his eyes
Just look there! See how quaintly
She uses her white thighs.
There are two volumes to come. They
will stand as a pathetic monument,
deserted except for the occasional prying
of an Aust.Lit. thesis-writer.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Kick the Manufacturer
T>RITAIN’S latest move to foster exports automatically followed more pressure on
sterling. It only serves as a reminder that there is plenty of awareness of what
is required but insufficient people doing enough about it.
British manufacturers are accused of
sitting on their bottoms and clucking
about the terrible balance of payments
position, instead of tackling the situa-
tion by attempting to sell vigorously
abroad.
Various missions have gone overseas,
including another “hard-sell” trip to Aus-
tralia, but politicians in Britain claim
that UK manufacturers simply are not
making the required effort. Unless some-
thing is done, it is feared that devalua-
tion may yet be forced upon Britain.
Labor politicians, after so many years
on the Opposition benches, are irked
over the restrictions which must be
imposed on Government spending at
such a time when they would much
prefer to spend happily in promoting the
various socialistic measures they had
promised to introduce when they gained
power.
The situation in Australia is similar
in some respects, even with a conserva-
tive government in power. The desire
to spend on defence and public works
is being frustrated by a worsening
balance-of-payments situation and the
difficulties of raising overseas loans.
The decline in the balance-of-payments
position in the UK underscores the
weakness of Australia’s overseas reserves,
where, outside of the £AlO3m. held in
gold, the bulk of the funds is held in
sterling. There has been a recent
tendency to place more money in dollars,
though this is a drop in the ocean.
It has been said before, and bears
repeating, that if sterling devalues by
10 p.c. Australia would have that amount
lopped from her sterling holdings. This
assumes that Australia does not follow
Britain in the devaluation. At this stage,
the feeling seems to be that Australia
may follow Britain but not all the way.
Putting all the official protestations
aside, it bears thinking about. If sterling
devalues, then exports from Britain will
become cheaper. It may suit a deflation-
ary policy in Australia; it will not help
the balance of payments where import
pressures are building up.
Therefore, the same exhortation is
needed for Australian manufacturers to
get out and sell on overseas markets. Too
often there is lip service given to this
problem and a minimum of action. It
is always left to the other fellow.
Certainly, it may be inconvenient
and even a little bit expensive to attempt
to break into a new market. The earn-
ings which come back to Australia, how-
ever, give far greater benefits than appear
on the surface. The manufacturer
initially may export at a loss. The tax
concessions may not justify the effort
and the small volume of sales achieved
may appear trivial and unimportant. A
combined total of everybody’s sales, how-
ever, make a worthwhile national contri-
bution.
Unless Australia faces up to the fact
that exports are necessary for national
survival, a period of hardship lies ahead.
No nation can support the huge defence
and development programme stretching
ahead of Australia without relying on
exports. Some of the new iron ore
developments will help. But manu-
facturers, and those who import manu-
factured items from overseas, should
realise there is a moral obligation to
earn (or save) as much as we can over-
seas.
Those Invisibles Again
VI/hile on the subject of exports and
the associated headache of invisible
costs arising from shipping freights, in-
surance, etc., it is worth noting a Wash-
HAROLD WILSON
ington report that 15 US-subsidised ship-
ping lines have joined forces to assist
the American exporter and importer to
find markets and suppliers. They have
recently recommended that a joint in-
dustry - Government maritime research
and development foundation be estab-
lished.
Because of Australia’s isolation, the
shipping industry has developed in the
hands of overseas owners and the Gov-
ernment shipping line has concentrated
on servicing the often non-profitabie
and sometimes remote coastal trade.
Constant freight increases on over-
seas shipping lines are forcing the realisa-
tion that Australia cannot afford the
annual drain of invisible import pay-
ments which, with tourism, costs about
£250 million a year.
Invisible imports are not a problem
British and American Share Markets
Economic doubts exercised a quite
decided effect throughout both
London and New York stock markets
last week. As usual, it looks as if
they will be resolved in two different
ways. For all its recent waywardness,
Wall Street appears well able to
produce an air of relative confidence;
London must continue to appear un-
certain in the face of domestic
deflationary moves and an apparent
slowdown in exports.
Mr Edward Heath’s election as
leader of the Conservative Party gave
London markets a mild, but vefy
temporary, elation. Such moods and
moves can scarcely be sustained across
a continuous absence of real buying
volume. A good deal of the economic
worry has assuredly been discounted,
yet there’s not enough pressure to hold
equities reasonably stable.
So, apart from banking and in-
surance issues, some quite heavy losses
are seen. Leading industrials like ICI,
British Motor Corporation and
General Electric continue to bear
some of the brunt. Base metals stayed
mostly satisfactory, though golds en-
dured profit-taking in line with sterl-
ing’s improvement.
Wall Street analysts expressed
plenty of confidence so far as the US
economy’s capacity to absorb an ex-
panded Vietnam war was concerned.
After President Johnson’s speech, the
market felt able to close the week
with the month’s highest index gain
and volume.


confined to Australia alone. Even a
rich country like the US is asking its
tourists to stay at home and tour
America, instead of jaunting off over-
seas and giving dollars to someone else.
For Australia, however, the cost of
relying on someone else’s shipping line
or someone else’s insurance company
brings a heavy toll in funds lost abroad.
The just-released balance of payments
statistics covering 1964-65 show invisibles
totalling £296 million. Of course these
comprise, as well as freight and in-
surance, such items as foreign aid, travel
and expatriation of property income.
All these turned an adverse trading
balance of *£79 million into a total
balance of payments deficit of £375
million the second heaviest in Aus-
tralia’s history. The particularly high
June quarter deficit saw, among such
things as rising imports and declining
exports, a noticeable increase in freight
payable overseas.
Good for Copper
All those concerned with copper in
Australia, whether from the pro-
ductive or consumer side, had real
grounds for rejoicing last week. The
Broken Hill South - Conzinc Riotinto
combine brought its Cobar field into pro-
duction on schedule and the surcharge on
Australian copper for domestic use was
reduced by £l6l a ton.
The two events are naturally not un-
related. They must be tied as well to
the speedy recovery shown by Mount
Isa from the strike. All in all, there
should be every hope during 1966 of
domestic output coming very close to
satisfying domestic consumption.
Presumably, also, Mount Morgan will
now be allowed to fulfil the demands of
its Japanese contract, calling for export
of all the mine’s copper production.
Only half has been permitted export up
to now.
Cobar’s successful inauguration dead
on a projected start by July, 1965, is
particularly happy. This has been a big,
three-year scheme brought to a con-
clusion in a country area far from easy.
The annual output rate should reach
10,000 tons by the end of the current
year. Duplication of concentrator and
surface facilities then are expected to
bring the rate to 20,000 tons a year by
mid-1966. Directors have mentioned
that such an output seems well within
the field’s capacity to sustain once the
mines are equipped.
Removal of the surcharge, which was
greatly increased when Isa’s supply
stopped, can also aid the export of
copper-bearing products, manufacturers
feel. It has previously had the effect of
lifting the cost of copper products as .
much as 12 p.c.
Twenty Years After the
Pacific War
Japan still a “miracle” economy
By VICTOR WORSTEAD
years after the ending of the Pacific War the erstwhile enemy, Japan,
has become Australia’s second most important trading partner, next to the long-
traditional and now somewhat struggling leader, the United Kingdom. Both in Japan
and Australia, businessmen and Government spokesmen continually reassure each
other that the future can bring nothing but tremendous development in the two
countries’ mutual trade a situation all the more convenient for Australia in that
the balance must/remain decidedly in its favor for some considerable time to come.
During the same twenty years Japan
has quite obviously come to play a much
deeper part in the whole world economy,
far more profoundly important for
international trade than at any earlier
period in its history. Indeed it is, par
excellence, still the best example of the
postwar “miracle” economies, even sur-
passing Germany with capacity for
sustained growth.
Difficulties the Japanese economy is
now undergoing, and the Tokyo Stock
Exchange depressions are certainly
symbolic of these. Yet even after an
exciting growth rate of 10 p.c. a year
during the period 1955-60, against Ger-
many’s 6 p.c., Japan still looked forward
to a gross national product rising by 9.7
p.c. at current prices for the 1964-65
fiscal year, or a unique 7 p.c. in real
terms.
Japan’s troubles with its balance of
payments and in particular the flood of
imports sustaining an over-heated in-
dustrial expansion are well known. Even
after corrective measures, involving the
imposition of a particularly tight money
policy, the governor of the Bank of
EISAKU SATO
Prime Minister of Japan
Japan, Mr Masamichi Yamagiwa,
summed up the position as follows:
“The Japanese economy has now
entered a new era, and it is no longer
reasonable to expect a continuation of
the abnormally high level of growth seen
during the past years. However, viewed
over the long term the future appears
bright as the economy is viable and
characterised by youthfulness and flexi-
bility.”
Mr Yamagiwa also reasserted the pre-
dominant export demands which have
distinguished the postwar changes
throughout the Japanese economy: “Be-
cause Japan depends heavily on over-
seas countries for such essential raw
materials and fuel as iron ore, raw
cotton and petroleum, the role of exports
in strengthening economic growth is far
more important as a factor in insuring
the capacity to import than as an
effective demand factor. A review' of
trends during the past few years reveals
that exports have increased each year
by about 10 to 20 p.c.”
Mention of iron ore, of course, im-
mediately brings Australia into the latest
picture, since Japanese demands and the
now firm contracts for huge quantities
are the principal reasons for developing
the huge West Australian deposits.
Australian coal as well will be in greater
demand by the Japanese steel industry,
now the third largest in the world.
These are the newest commodities to
be added to Japan’s heavy and continu-
ing purchases of Australian wool (she is
now Australia’s biggest customer). But
the threat of Japan’s present internal
recession must be ever kept in mind
as the WA development is pressed for-
ward. Only last week Japanese steel
mills announced a cut in production.
This will necessitate a halt in ore con-
tracts, fortunately from suppliers other
than Australia. The earliest Australian
contract, anyhow, does not call for first
deliveries until 1966.
Japan now, as from last year, is a
country of the “open door” having
signed the famous Article 8 of the Inter-


Are you spending too much
on your packaging?
Hi
<■
s*¥?
■
This new packaging film
could reduce your costs
by a third.
The new packaging film is called
Zendel H.C.A. It costs a lot less
than most other packaging materials
because it is a polyethylene film—
and polyethylene is the lowest cost
transparent film available today.
The clarity of Zendel H.C.A. is
high, and its special anti-static
properties fight off dust, lint, fluff
and grime to keep your package
clean and appealing before it’s sold.
Zendel H.C.A. performs well on
high speed bagging machines and
can be handled faster than many
other packaging materials by
unskilled operators.
Ask us, or your bag supplier, for
bag or film samples and prices on
the new superior polyethylene
packaging film, Zendel H.C.A.
Don’t be fobbed off onto inferior
substitutes Zendel H.C.A. is
made in Australia for Union
Carbide, world’s leading polyethy-
lene producer. For the name of bag
makers using Zendel H.C.A. poly-
ethylene film, simply contact the
Union Carbide office in your State.
Union Carbide Australia Limited
Plastics Division
167 Kent Street, Sydney
Branch Offices
in State Capitals
Mendel
High Clarity, Antistatic
Polyethylene Film
H.C.A.
ZENDEL POLYETHYLENE FILM GRADES FOR EVERY PACKAGING APPLICATION:
ZENDEL H.C. high clarity polyethylene film
zehdel H.c. A. high clarity, antistatic polyethylene film
ZENDEL U.T. ultra thin polyethylene film
ZENDEL E.H.I. extra high impact polyethylene film
ZENOEL U.H.I. ultra high impact (for shipping bags)
ZENDEL T. high impact, very low slip (for tapes)
“Union Carbide" and “Zendel" are registered trade marks.
646 a
national Monetary Fund, thus freeing
imports and external payments. Last year
was notable, too, for Japan’s admission
to the Organisation for Economic Co-
operation and Development.
The trade liberalisation consequent
upon each of these moves has not, per-
haps, been quite as open as it appears
on paper. Some clever protection of the
virile Japanese motor vehicle industry is
still in train.
To draw attention to such things, how-
ever, is only to emphasise how well the
actual trade agreement between Japan
and Australia really works. After most-
favored nation treatment was accorded
to each other by the 1957 agreement,
and a promise by Japan not to flood
Australia with cheap textiles, the cur-
rent agreement, signed in 1963, was
able much further to extend trading
relations.
I>oth countries have become full trad-
** ing partners in the GATT sense.
Japan, among other commitments,
guaranteed not to impose any duty on
wool. It also promised to afford Australia
opportunities to export more sugar, can-
ned meat, leather, motor vehicles, butter
and cheese. For the eleven months to
May this year, Australia’s exports to
Japan totalled £203.8 million, compared
with £224.8 million for the corresponding
1964 period. The respective import
figures were £114.5 million, against
£73.2 million.
Such trading volumes are a far cry
from Australia’s exports to Japan
averaging £lO million for the period
1946-50 and even the £97 million for
1954-58. Japanese imports, as well
were still only averaging £47 million a
year between 1958-62.
Japan’s industrial progress since the
yen was stabilised in 1949, and since the
Korean War (1951) started the long-
enduring boom, has moved away from the
old cheap-labor products like textiles. It
is now built around the most sophisti-
cated manufactures electronic goods
motor vehicles, machine tools. Such
articles Japan wishes to export competi-
tively all over the world and not
least within the Pacific area, where she
is certainly a more than successful rival
to Australian industrial penetration.
Not for nothing does the London
“Economist” repeatedly describe the
Japanese as the best salesmen in the
world. That sales pressure is still every-
where apparent, despite, or even because
of, Japan’s present economic perplexi-
ties (so similar to those of most
developed industrial countries): balance
of payments concern, a shortage of
skilled labor, rising internal costs, and
a perpetually pressing need to tackle
the social structure of the economy. Of
the success and future of the private
sector there need be little doubt.


What goes on at Newcastle?
(A lot more than meets the eye!)
ms
m.
m
m
#
imp
■
' /■
m*
■
m
P
w#:
<7'/
<•.->■•. vX
•••::.-...
Building has already started on the reclaimed
land in the Hunter River, where Greenleaf
Fertilizers, a subsidiary of Sulphide Corporation
is erecting a new Acid and Fertilizer plant
that will start producing in 1966.
Its capacity will be the equivalent of
500,000 tons of superphosphate each year.
The existing plant at Cockle
Creek will continue production
and between the two an output
equating nearly a million tons
of superphosphates, essential
for Primary Industry, will be
available each year to New
South Wales farmers.
This is another part of the
important role that CRA and
its member companies are
playing in the Agricultural
and Industrial Development
of Australia.
SULPHIDE CORPORATION PTY. LIMITED
GREENLEAF FERTILIZERS PTY. LIMITED
Member Companies of
CONZINC RIOTINTO OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
MW7


Grim Outlook for Whaling
The industry's survival at stake
By PETER OWEN
Qome critics say that the whaling in-
dustry is no longer necessary.
Modern chemical industry can make
adequate substitutes for the oil and other
products, they claim, and in any case the
industry is grossly wasteful. Other
responsible people have qualms about
firing explosive harpoons into the guts
of a sensitive animal thirty times the
size Of an elephant.
The author of the nineteenth-century
classic, “Stray Leaves from a Whaleman’s
Log”, describes how horrified seamen,
waiting for a harpooned whale to rise,
saw “the immense glistening lower jaw
armed with two rows of polished teeth
flash from the water, and the gigantic
beast leap into the air carrying with it
the head of the boat, which had been
snapped asunder, and the unfortunate
harpooner whose head and arms were
dangling from the corner of the mon-
ster’s mouth within which the body and
legs were gripped as in a vice”. Primitive
whaling based upon “confrontation” be-
tween the animals and men armed with
hand harpoons is certainly a far cry
from the push-button scientific slaughter
that has brought some species of these
giant ocean-going mammals to the point
of Extinction.
Melbourne had a hint of the modern
scientific approach when the Russian
Antarctic whaling fleet of two factory
ships and 32 chasers put into Port
Phillip for a recreation break. Visitors
to the flagship Sovietskaya Ukraina were
very impressed with the highly mechan-
ised factory-like atmosphere and the
large number of scientists and tech-
nicians aboard. The fleet had taken
5140 whales in seven months in Antarctic
waters. Catching was facilitated by a
communication network in which all
catchers reported by radio to the flag-
ship every two hours the presence ar
absence of whales, the species, their
number and direction, weather data, sea
temperature, and so on. A strong team
of meteorologists not only provided a
local weather service for the whaling
operations but transmitted weather data
to the International Antarctic Analysis
Centre, thus helping forecasting in Aus-
tralia and other parts of the Southern
Hemisphere.
The Russians told of the work of
research scientists stationed on the
Sovietskaya Ukraina, who were experi-
menting with new methods of killing.
They reported very successful results
with the South American arrow poison
curare, as an alternative to the explosive
charges currently used on harpoons.
Whales killed by explosives often sink
before they can be inflated and taken
in tow. The injection of curare induces
rapid anaesthesia; the carcass floats until
picked up. The Russians planned to use
curare on a large scale during the 1965
season.
No less than 16 such expeditions
operated in the Antarctic in 1963-64 and
caught about 8400 whales. Japan,
Russia, Norway and The Netherlands
were the main sponsors. Scientists con-
tinue to warn that the blue whale has
been hunted in the Arctic to the point
of extinction. Other species are being
reduced at an alarming rate in both
hemispheres.
Some weeks ago the 17-nation Inter-
national Whaling Commission an-
nounced a series of measures to save
whales from extinction. The 1965-66
quota was reduced to 4500 blue whale
units, with stricter cuts foreshadowed
for subsequent seasons. The killing ef
blue whales in the Pacific north of the
Equator was forbidden for five years
from 1966, and of humpback whales in
that area during 1966. The Commission
also prohibited the use of whale catchers
attached to factory ships for killing
sperm whales between latitudes 40
degrees south and 40 degrees north.
At a meeting in Norway in 1964 the
Whaling Commission refused to bring
the annual catch limits into line with
scientific advice. Although the meeting
gave what amounts to total protection
to the blue whale, it refused to set a
limit on fin and sei w'hales. The rep-
resentatives of the four countries with
fleets in the Antarctic would not accept
further cuts. John Hillaby, biological
consultant to Britain’s “New Scientist”,
commented that this decision might
hazard the continued existence of the
largest animals in the world.
The present crisis in the whaling in-
dustry, with the threat of extinction of
species and breakdown of commercial
whaling, has arisen from years of catcn-
ing without knowledge of the capacity of
the populations to replace the losses. It
is only in the past few years that marine
biologists have acquired the facts upon
which to base forward projections of
total world whale numbers at present
rates of killing.
Assessments are made by methods
developed in fisheries research. Rates
of mortality and of recruitment from
younger generations into the catchable
sizes are computed and the figures set
against the extent of the catch per unit
of effort on the part of the whalers. The
biologists conclude that actuaL.catches
over a number of years have been sub-
stantially above the surplus of recruit-
ment over mortality required to main-
tain numbers at their present figure. The
final stage of this type of research
involves complex mathematical calcula-
tions and it is interesting that the Inter-
national Whaling Commission’s scientific
advisory committee is composed entirely
of mathematicians.
Britain took the initiative in studying
the long-term potential of Southern Hemi-
sphere whaling in 1952, when Captain
Scott's famous old ship Discovery sailed
to the Falkland Islands carrying a team
of -scientists to find out all they could
about the habits and life histories of
whales. The authorities hoped to avoid
the over-fishing that had wrecked the


Invest in
HOOKER FINANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
CASH &. CONVERSION ISSUE OF
Debenture Stock
UP TO
: '.r
PER
ANNUM
4
YEARS
HOW TO INVEST: Applicaticns will proceed only on the form of appli-
cation attached to and included in the prospectus and available from:
Any branch of the Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia
Any Member of a Recognised Stock Exchange
The Underwriting Brokers: Ralph W. King & Yuill
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange Limited)
Any office of Hooker Finance Company Limited
Trustees for the Debenture Holders:
Burns Philp Trust Company Limited
V
F 1465
Arctic industry. They foresaw that some
sort of international control would have
to be instituted if the mistake was not
to be repeated in the Southern Hemi-
sphere.
The essential life history of whales
was recorded for the first time by the
early Discovery expeditions. The 12
months’ growth of the foetus of the blue
whale from an ovum almost invisible
to the naked eye to an infant 25 feet
long and weighing several tons is indeed
remarkable. Though the birth rate is
not much greater than one calf in two
years per adult female, populations
could recover if unmolested for 20 to
60 years.
Australian whaling recommenced at
Carnavon and Albany in Western Aus-
tralia in 1949, and in eastern Australia
at Byron Bay, Tangalooma, and Nor-
folk Island in 1952. The industry was
based primarily on the humpback species.
Owing to increasing scarcity, all opera-
tions were shut down in 1962-63.
HThe humpback is found in both the
A Atlantic and Pacific. It s upper sur-
face is black and the limbs and belly are
white. The throat is wrinkled and looks
like corrugated iron. Five more or less
self-contained populations have been
recognised in the Southern Hemisphere.
The eastern and Western Australian
shore-based whaling operations were
based on groups IV and V. With the
recommencement of whaling operations,
CSIRO’s Division of Fisheries and
Oceanography, at Cronulla (NSW), began
long-term studies of these groups whh
the general objective of assessing the
yields that might be maintained nice
or less indefinitely.
Dr R. G. Chittleborough, who directed
the research, has recently reviewed what
we now know about these whales. They
spend the winter breeding months off the
Australian coast and return to Antarctic
waters for the summer. Whales from
group IV move to one area and group
V to another. The groups remain
separate and occupy roughly the same
territory every year.
Following summer spent far to the
south, the populations move northwards
towards Australia in the autumn. The
vanguard reaches here about April and
the main body in June. Some swim as
far north as 10 degrees south latitude,
while occasional latecomers don’t pass
30 degrees south before turning back.
Dr Chittleborough tracked some of the
migrations from the air and found that
they move at an average of about 4.3
knots. But they can sustain this speed
for weeks on end; one humpback was
marked when passing through Cook
Strait, New Zealand, and was shot near
Brisbane, some 1350 nautical miles away,
20 days later.
Dozens of individual research repors
by many scientists, covering the re-
production, nutrition, growth, recruit-
ment, mortality rates and commercial
catch statistics, have provided the basis
of Dr Chittleborough’s review. A mathe-
matical analysis led to the conclusion
that group IV probably once comprised
between 12,000 and 17,000 whales. By
1949 it had dropped to 10,000 and by
1962 to no more than 800. Group V
declined from about 10,000 to some 500
over the same period. The analysis
showed that it would take several decades
of unmolested breeding for these popula-
tions to be restored to normal. Assuming
this happy end to be achieved, the safe
stable “harvesting” rate would then be
only about 750 per year.
We may well be proud of this national
research effort and of the fact that Aus-
tralia has observed the international
whaling rules. Some other countries have
neither contributed knowledge nor shown
regard for agreed international law. Dr
Chittleborough’s report alleges, for in-
stance, that in 1954-55 the factory ship
Olympic Challenger slaughtered hump-
back whales in the Antarctic without
regard for the closed season or the
minimum legal length. He states that
the whaling inspectors on board sub-
mitted falsified statistics of the catches
to the Bureau of International Whaling
Statistics.
The International Commission’s scien-
tific committee estimates that a maximum
sustained yield of 5000 blue whales and
20,000 fin whales might ultimately, be
achieved in the Antarctic, provided these
species were heavily protected umil
stocks recover. The unco-operative at-
titude of countries like Norway, which
has a distinguished record of whale re-
search and regulation, is hard toninder-
stand.
It is difficult to foretell the outcome.
If the populations of the fin and sei
whales are reduced to the present level
of the blue, the fleets may find it un-
profitable to continue Antarctic opera-
tions. The stock might then recover very
slowly at the expense of many decades
of production.


COMPANY REPORT
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited
(Incorporated, in Victoria under the “Companies Act, 1890”)
and its Wholly Owned Subsidiaries
The Commercial Savings Bank of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria)
The Commercial Bank Savings Bank (N.Z.) Limited
(Incorporated in New Zealand)
C.B.A. Nominees Pty. Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Chairman: J. C. GUEST
V. Y. KIMPTON NORMAND HILL T. L. WEBB
J. C. STEWART H. F. CLARKE
General Manager: N. A. JACKSON
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30th JUNE, 1965
(Expressed to the nearest £ in Australian Currency)
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers
Money at Short Call Overseas
Australian Public Securities:—
(a) Commonwealth and States—
(i) Treasury Notes
(ii) Other Securities
(b) Local and Semi-Governmental Authorities
Other Public Securities
Other Securities
Loans to Authorised Dealers in the Short Term Money Market
Statutory Reserve Deposit Account with Reserve Bank of
Australia
Statutory Deposit and Special Fund Accounts with Reserve
Bank of New Zealand
Term Loan Fund Account with Reserve Bank of Australia
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks and Balances with and
due from Other Banks
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting pro-
visions for debts considered bad or doubtful)
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit
All Other Assets
Contingent Assets including Liabilities of Customers and
Others on Letters of Credit, Guarantees, etc., as per
contra
£
14,352,913
1,625,000
1,026,000
57.517,749
14,525,561
4,669,068
2,799,863
2,550,000
31,568,000
5,707,270
2,500,000
7,544,413
175,219,086
7,648,451
32,941,740
1,587,159
363,782,273
'14,405,907
£378,188,180
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1965
(Expressed to the nearest £ in Australian Currency)
By Discount, and Interest earned, net exchange, commissions
and other items, after deducting interest paid and
accrued on deposits, rebate on bills current at balance
date and transfers to the credit of Contingencies
Accounts (out of which accounts provisions for all
bad and doubtful debts have been made)
By Balance brought forward from previous year
„ Net Profit for the year as above
£
12,416,629
12,416,629
697,067
1,036,941
£1,734,008
Copies of the final accounts of the Bank and its subsidiaries, The Commercial Savings Bank of Australia Limited and the Commercial Bank Savings Bank
(N.Z.) Limited, together with Consolidated final accounts of the Group, with Statutory Declarations by the General Manager and Secretary, Directors'
Certificates and Auditors' Reports thereon have been posted to each Stockholder.


The Bank of Ceylon has grown to be the largest
bank in the island, controlling over 50% of the
total bank deposits in Ceylon. Enterprising
exporters and importers depend upon this
experience in their trade relations with Ceylon.
The Bank of Ceylon offers a comprehensive
service from up-to-the-minute Business Intelli-
gence Reports and Credit Information, to the
financing of exports and imports and conducting
every type of foreign exchange transaction.
LONDON OFFICE: 48-54 Moorgate, London, E.C.2.
Phone Monarch 5597-9.
FOREIGN DEPT.:
Bank of Ceylon Building,
York Street, Colombo 1.
Cables: FORBANK Colombo.
CENTRAL OFFICE:
Bank of Ceylon Building,
York Street, Colombo 1.
Cables: HEADBANK Colombo.
BANK OF CEYLON
The largest bank in Ceylon
with the finest network of local branches.
28 BRANCHES AND 4 PAY OFFICES IN CEYLON.
Perspectives on Company Losses
Training new generations of accountants
By A. A. FORSTER
TI7ITHIN the past decade some twenty companies, not merely the same tiresomely
repeated two or three, have reported substantial losses, losses aggregating over
£lOO million. These losses were revealed over a relatively brief span of time but, to
my knowledge, were, in some instances, at least ten years in the making. In other
instances, and in part, they were not “losses” at all in the ordinarily understood sense
of that term (e.g. as representing proper debts proving to be irrecoverable).
Some past and some present “losses”
have been “disclosed”, however, in a way
which represents a slur upon the com-
munity, for, in fact, what was really
involved, was a disclosure that put a
gloss on the errors and misjudgments of
management. These concerned especially
the evaluation of the unearned income
component of instalment account bal-
ances and included also an amount
representing debts not recoverable be-
cause of the inadequate provisions and
defects in the Moneylenders Acts.
It is complete nonsense to assume or
to assert that these losses were due to
weaknesses in accounting or in auditing.
What one can say, and I propose to estab-
lish these points, is that if management
had availed itself of the well-established
and at least 25-year-old methods of
appraising internal operational efficiency,
these losses would have been sharply
reduced as a consequence of the
much earlier discovery of internal weak-
nesses in managerial controls. Again, if
the law had been strengthened in the
manner here recommended, it is fairly
safe to say, once again, that those losses
would have been sharply reduced or, to
put it another way, results in all years
would have been stated and reported
on in a more satisfactory manner.
There are powerful and compelling
reasons, associated with the need closely
to observe the fluctuating volume of con-
sumer credit in the economy, for the
making of regulatory provisions govern-
ing companies in the finance industry
at least to the extent of governing their
accounting, valuation and reporting pro-
cedures —similar to those affecting the
banks and the life offices, where a similar
public interest is involved.
There will be neither sense nor con-
sistency in the accounting, valuation and
reporting procedures of finance com-
panies (for example) until there are
special statutory provisions to be
observed and until statutory protection
is extended to the reports of the auditors
(here, one may say, for all companies).
It is, of course, no answer to many of
the particular defects cited in the reports
to say that these came to light only as
a result of an unfortunate and unforesee-
able chain of events. This is true of
perhaps 20 major corporate groups
“caught” by the 1960 “Holt”. In the
aggregate, as well, the “general investor”
has, in the process, lost something up-
wards of £lOO million. Some remedial
measures must be devised, yet we should
be clear as we proceed as to the dis-
tinction between a reason and an excuse
for the reformist zeal that is in the air.
If one had to nominate a single com-
mon factor explanatory of these losses,
it would be the unfettered freedom of a
dominant personality at top management
(board) level. You correct this by
legislating for a shareholder supervisory
board for listed companies, with a func-
tion of internal auditing and surveillance.
There was a weakness, for example, in
the basis of management’s valuation of
developmental land and, more funda-
mentally, in its calculation of unearned
income. You correct this by devising and
enforcing new and better standards of
reporting for finance companies as an
industrial group, just as special provisions
are made for banking and for life assur-
ance companies. Finally, there was at
least one clear instance of some hesitancy
in the reporting process by the auditors,
a well-publicised instance associated with
the Reid Murray affair, which calls for
closer examination of the general issues.
This involved a general criticism of the
profession and calls for an equally
general reply.
Most, if not all, of the criticism of
auditors’ reports, or their alleged failure
to report, are expressed by people who
simply do not understand the relevant
law; people who have ever been
obliged to face and to accept in public
practice the responsibility of reporting
in the spirit of the motto of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants in Australia:
nec timens, nec favens . . . without
fear and without favor. What these
critics and the public do not realise is
that the burden of responsibility placed
upon the practitioner is great and
onerous. No one has any right to expect
that the individual accountant in public
practice should go further, and should
assume, personally, the responsibility of
maintaining business morality in areas
which are the clear prerogative, responsi-
bility and function of responsible govern-
ments; no right to expect that a com*
petent practitioner should go beyond the
protection of the law and place himself*
his livelihood, estates and reputation in
jeopardy, in an entirely quixotic protec-
tion of a public interest. This position
will change for the better when govern-
ments see fit to amend the Companies
Acts and the laws relating to defamation
—to extend protection and privilege to
auditors and their reports, in place of
the dubious qualified privilege those re-
ports have at the present time.
There are three major aspects to the
Reid Murray affair. These involve or
concern:
(1) The Securities industry, where one-
might consider the role of the bankers,
and the brokers, and the general invest-
ing public.
(2) The Commercial Administration of
Companies, the internal management of
the company with particular reference
to the boards of directors of the con-
trolling companies and their policies
throughout the period covered by the
reports. Here might be considered the
role of the professional management
group within the modern, complex, cor-
porate-grouping (this particular one in-
volving about 220 separate companies).
Here, too, might be considered the sig-
nificance of this cumulation of uncon-


Irl
IN MELBOURNE
smart people stay at the
RESS ORIENTAL HOTEL
at the Paris end of Collins Street.
Right in the heart of busi-
ness, entertainment, theatres
and shopping centre,
100 rooms—newly decor-
ated, 24 hour room service.
New air-conditioned res-
taurants, the Rib Room, for
delicious aged beef and steaks;
the Harlequin Room for the
young at heart.
Hotel shops include chem-
ist, florist, boutique—and a
step away is the high fashion
world of Collins Street.
Car parking at the hotel.
Ask about our Family
Booking Plan (children free).
For reservations, ring Mel-
bourne 636031; Sydney
29 8392, your Airline or
Travel Agent. RHI43/64
HESS ORIENTAL
MELBOURNE
trolled private power held and exercised
by a few people in the key and control-
ling units of such a corporate-grouping.
(3) The Accounting Profession, whose
members might ponder their extraordin-
ary neglect of the 25-year-old philosophy
and practice of internal auditing and ask
themselves, perhaps, what role it might
have played in moderating at least the
severity of these losses? They might ask
whether there is the slightest justification,
in the professional examinations, for
holding down the study of the basic
principles of finance to its most element-
ary elements, to the neglect of the opera-
tionally meaningful concepts of rational
business - investment decision - making
(which find no place at all in their
syllabus). Finally they might ask them-
selves questions about conduct which is
a negation of professional status, e.g.,
the continued acceptance of a quite
passive role, whereby many individual
accountants consider it both expedient
and proper to allow the other, non-
accounting arms of management both to
decide and to dictate what are the appro-
priate and applicable accounting prin-
ciples, how doubts are to be resolved, and
what form the disclosure (or non-dis-
closure) of these decisions of manage-
ment are to take.
There are at least two outstanding and
quite clear-cut accounting issues. First
comes the valuation of developmental
land, with some making out a case for
treating developmental costs related to
land on a basis different from that ap-
plied to merchandise, trading stock, or
even as applied to the installation of
plant and equipment. The most funda-
mental features of land and develop-
mental costs lie, of course, in the gen-
erally speculative character of the ac-
quisition costs and in both the uncer-
tainty and the lengthy time period as-
sociated with the recovery of these costs
and the realisation of profits.
TP HE second of the principal accounting
issues involves the calculation of un-
earned income. It is here that the prin-
cipal accounting deficiency rests, here
that the most indefensible bases and
methods have been allowed to persist in
the finance industry without much help,
or guidance, from the profession. What
are required, and now available, are
methods which may properly be described
as having an actuarial basis and as re-
quiring a limited approximation in com-
putation.
It will emerge, at a later time, that
one of the major contributions of the
universities in relation to the accounting
profession, a contribution which finds
its most powerful expression in the areas
of corporation accounting and finance,
lies in the exposition and treatment of
these and similar problems related to
rational business-investment decision-
making. In these areas of the measure-
ment of unearned income and the con-
cept of a full and sufficient disclosure by
the member companies of the finance
industry, a case can be made out for
devising, and enforcing, new and better
standards of reporting.
Accounting education is the source
and seat, one might dare hope, of the
most important of all of the construc-
tive responses to this Reid Murray af-
fair, if we may take it as symptomatic
of a deeper malaise. Here we are indeed
at the cross-roads challenged to show
that cultural depth, theoretical insights,
and professional competence and prac-
ticality are indeed mutually reinforcing
and compatible elements of a first de-
gree course in commerce with an ac-
counting major. That challenge is met
by changing the basis for entry to some
departments of commerce within the
universities and by revising and enrich-
ing the courses taken in those depart-
ments —giving to non-mathematical, but
talented, people the kind of cultural de-
velopment that only a university can
provide.
There is a growing realisation that, in
commerce, we need a wide variety of
talents, and these not exclusively mathe-
matical talents. As a consequence, other
and more sensitive selection processes
are needed. At the moment we “make
do” with generalised and compulsory
requirements in mathematics. Mathe-
matical ability is no doubt a rough
measure of a level, and of a kind and
quality, of reasoning ability. It is,
though, a pretty crude device for the
selection (or exclusion) of professional
accounting people or of business admin-
istrators. Its continued use in this way
is wasteful of other talents, is frustrat-
ing of development, and is the direct
cause of excessive per-graduate costs.
If the recurrent crises in the recent
history of the corporation have revealed
any glaring weaknesses in the training
and education of accountants, these lie
in two areas. There is a need for the
more widespread recognition of the im-
portance of a training in depth in finance;
there is further need for the recognition
of the fact that the practice of account-
ing is the practice of a branch of the
law, demanding a more rigorous treat-
ment, in greater depth, of the most im-
portant and relevant areas of the law,
especially those areas concerned with
financial transactions.
A first degree course in commerce
with an accounting major, which reflect-
ed all of these elements, would not only
serve the needs of the community and
amply satisfy the requirements of bus-
iness and the profession. It would tend
to produce more intellectual leaders in
commerce. It would provide outlets and
fulfilment to many talented people; it
would reduce wastage, and sharply lower
per-graduate costs. Most importantly, it
would serve to enrich the life of the
community, as indeed is to be expected
of a university.
Summing up, these are the suggestions
that have been made (The Bulletin,
June 26, July 17, and above):
(1) That there be a more broad, basic
cultural content built into university
courses in the accountancy specialisa-
tion.
(2) That the accountancy specialisa-
tion be related more closely to law, with
a department of commercial law giving
special attention to the law relating to
credit transactions, securities, and cor-
poration finance.
(3) That we have a self-contained first
degree in the accountancy specialisation
providing for a level of professional
competence equivalent to that provided
for medicine and the law.
(4) That university training be a pre-
requisite . of public practice, subject to
similar safeguards as apply to law.
(5) That there be provided a general
commerce degree course designed for
the development of leaders in com-
merce, managers, and administrators, as
distinct from the specialist in account-
ancy.


m
Finance
Corpomtion
of Australia
Limited
INCORPORATED IN. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DEBENTURE STOCK
3/o
PER ANNUM BYEARS
0
PER ANNUM 10 YEARS
0
PER ANNUM 4 YEARS
I
E
5k
PER ANNUM I YEAR
ill!
mm 3
PER ANNUM 6 MONTHS
M
m
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only
on the printed form referred to in and attached to the
prospectus. Prospectuses and forms of application
should be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier. jdn.2
INVESTMENT
A Keen Watch on Sterling
Markets digest world events
OHARE buyers on Australian Stock Ex-
changes last week were a little hesi-
tant as they attempted to digest world
events in relation to their own market.
Those who welcomed the appointment of
Mr Heath as leader of the British Con-
servative Party doubtless felt that more
vigorous efforts would be made for the
UK to enter the European Common
Market.
This could suggest a shrinkage of
Australia’s export potential. Similarly,
the renewed talk of sterling devaluation
and Britain’s latest need to restrain im-
ports were hardly encouraging signs for
Australian export trade
On the other hand, metals were
stronger because of the war escalation
in Vietnam. Barriers received good sup-
port and New Broken Hill gained ad-
ded attention from UK buyers.
BHP lost some of the earlier buying
enthusiasm which followed its one-for-
seven par issue announcement, though
most holders felt reasonably well satisfied
with the company’s gesture. Elimination
of a premium on this new issue improves
the dividend yield Those who buy the
shares at 53s average out their holding
tc 495. after the one-for-seven issue. But
those who were sitting on the shares
at around the year’s low of 485., even it
they may not have bought at this price,
see the price averaeed down to 44s 6d
after the issue
MLC was on the -kids again on heavy
selling pressure. The £1 shares had ral-
lied to 70s 3d after the initial bear
raid which sent them down to 625.- 9d.:
renewed selling, with 6 7 25 shares traded
on July 28. prompted renewed caution
with buvers.
Some of the professional investors say
that if MLC’s bad debt problems in the
electrical trade have caused this run on
the shares, there is always an obvious
solution. The MLC could cut its losses.
It doesn’t need to chase its money. Mor-
ally, however, the MLC would have to
consider other debenture holders who
subscribed on the strength of MLC back-
ing.
Island Haze
/Ance again Burns Philp’s variegated
” set of provisions makes it difficult
to assess an agreed profit. On any count,
however, the latest earnings, for the
year to March 31, moved forward at a
somewhat slower rate. Most remark-
ably, for such a seasoned investor, the
market value of the group’s huge port-
folio slipped back by more than the
percentage drop in the Sydney all
ordinaries index —and this despite a £2 3
million increase in the book value, :o
£13.1 million.
These listed investments, during 1963-
64, suffered a market decline of £3 7
million to £20.6 million. On a much
smaller book increase over the previous
year, market value had shown a
dramatic £4.1 million advance.
After all provisions up from £354,000
to £625,000, and higher tax and de-
preciation, group profit went ahead by
£55,357 to £1,716,533, against 1963-64’s
rise of £304,031. The usual 10 p.c.
dividend is held securely on bonus-,
augmented capital, taking £90,000 more
at £BlO,OOO.
Trading profit, at £3,162,083, rose by
£400,089 compared with the previous


2%
Automatic
Automatic pilot takes the work out of course-
keeping. You set the course: George keeps to it,
regardless. Gives peace of mind. Frees the skipper
for other duties. Like when a is to be
arranged. The team of experts at Chevron Hotel,
backed by the colossal resources of this great
hotel, pilot the planners through all the shoals.
Experience tells. If you are to convene a conven-
tion, write to or talk it over with the Chevron Hotel
management: No further worries.
Package deals tailored to your requirements cover
every little detail. And at a very fair price.
Get with it. i. with us.
Ask for booklets:
PLANNING MADE EASY AND
ENTERTAINING MADE EASY
AUSTRALIA'S GREAT CONVENTION CENTRE
CHEVRON HOTEL
35-0433
MACLEAY STREET, POTT'S POINT, SYDNEY
year’s £556,068; investment income
gained £42,845 to reach £972,671, fol-
lowing a £49,712 rise in 1963-64.
Directors report the now traditional
unprofitability of island shipping ac-
tivities. Merchandising gave “consider-
ably increased” sales, affected apparently
by the need to cut margins in the face
of “keen competition”. Of island pro-
duce, copra prices strengthened markedly
while cocoa continued weak.
By 1968 the parent and all sub-
sidiaries will balance at the same time!
Minster Reacts
JI/linster shares reacted unfavorably
to the 1964-65 result, and small
wonder. Profit showed an increase of
only 6 p.c. to £940,000. The increase
would have been even smaller had it not
been for the adjustments made to the
1963-64 figure, reduced by £44,000 be-
cause of the underprovision of tax.
After last year’s 30 p.c. profit increase,
the meagre 6 p.c. rise came as some-
thing of a surprise. The interim report
for the December six-months spoke of a
reasonable profit increase. Perhaps the
fact that the one-for-three bonus issue
was announced at the same time encour-
aged shareholders to read more into the
word “reasonable” than was warranted.
Despite the slackening in growth, the
group is still in an enviable position. Divi-
dend is to be held at a generous 20 p.c.
on the bonus-increased capital. Earning
rate on average capital is very high at
49.1 p.c. and provides a substantial cover
for the dividend. Even taking the bonus
shares as dividend-ranking for the full
year, earning rate is 43 p.c. more than
twice covering the dividend.
Perhaps the annual report, due at the
end of August, will shed a little more
light on what the majority of investors
expected to be a much more buoyant
result.
Cement Expansion
Mo doubt spurred by the entry of the
Blue Circle cement group into Aus-
tralia, plus a continuation of the build-
ing boom, the Australian Portland
Cement group lifted its earnings by 11
p.c. to a record of £1,102,521 for the
year to May 31.
The holding company, Australian and
Kandos Cement Holdings Ltd, which
was formed in 1964 to merge the two
public companies which owned equal
shares in Australian Portland Cement
Ltd, came up with a net profit of
£1,112,939 and lifted its earning rate
from 17.7 p.c. to 19.7 p.c., thus giving


We
make
half
our sales
the hard
way
iiiafe
/JmZy--
s
/
\
m
i
Mr. Bruning
and his "wonderful
copying machine
make an entrance . . •
by replacing our
competitor’s copier
Here’s what we’re up against:
Maybe the competitor’s copier has been there for six months or a year.
It’s practically a fixture. And dislodging a fixture is no cinch.
Until we prove that our copier makes copies twice as fast; often at
half the cost.
This is what we do when we demonstrate our Bruning 2000 to business-
men living with our competitor’s copier.
These men know their copying requirements. They know the quantities
and the sizes of copies they need. They have found out all the costs of
copying, including some hidden ones. They’ve learned the economy of speed.
So when they see how the Bruning 2000 delivers perfect copies for as little
as 3.5 pence per copy (including materials and depreciation for volume
purchasers), we’re almost in.
When they see that they can copy documents from cheque size to 11 inches
by any reasonable length, and that they can buy, rent, or lease the Bruning
2000, we are in.
See the Bruning 2000 in action.
Just call the Bruning man. He’s listed in the ’phone book. Or write
Addressograph Multigraph, Dept. A, P.O. Box 4340, Melbourne, C.l, Vic.
-JO NOISIAia
buiunjg
ADDRESSOGRAPH MULTIGRAPH OF AUST. PTY. LTD. FR-B/65/2
almost a twice times cover for the 10
p.c. dividend.
The Australian Portland Cement
group, whose key cement plants are at
Geelong (Victoria) and Kandos (NSW),
is currently on a wave of expansion and
is installing a 450,000 tons a year kiln
at Geelong at a cost of £3.5 million.
The company is able to achieve con-
siderable tax savings with its current and
prospective depreciation provisions on
new plant (up from £590,662 to £760,119
in the latest year), but shareholders
naturally are curious about how the
company will finance its £3.5m. expan-
sion programme.
Strong internal liquidity has permitted
a certain independence of shareholders;
the question arises as to whether deben-
ture money or a new share issue will be
used to complete the plant extensions.
Share capital already is £5.6 million.
There are some who probably would pre-
fer to see a comfortable earning rate
margin maintained over the dividend
rate in case demand takes a knock in the
next few years.
Wynyard Lettings
A lthough most people in Sydney were
aware that Menzies Hotel and the
Wynyard shopping centre area were
doing well, it took a sharp jump in profit
by Wynyard Holdings Ltd, hotel and
property owner, to confirm it.
Gradually improved lettings in Wyn-
yard House (constructed by the Project
Development group) helped to raise
profit of Wynyard Holdings from
£73,023 to £258,033 and to increase
earning rate from 3.3 p.c. to 11.8 p.c.
on the £2.2m. capital.
While Project Development's offshoot
is doing well (it is still a major share-
holder in Wynyard Holdings), Project
Development continues to have its prob-
lems. since it purchased an 80 p.c. in-
terest in Norwest Development Corpora-
tion Ltd, from Mr E. S. Clementson for
£474,000 in March 1964. Norwest owns
meatworks at Broome and Derby (WA)
and also runs cattle stations in the Kim-
berley district.
Explanations, Please
As shareholders are rarely psychic, one
would have expected the directors of
Ardlethan Tin to give some explanation
for the substantial downturn in the
group’s recovery rate during the four
weeks to July 3. Only 80 tons of con-
centrates were recovered compared with
148 in the previous four weeks. The


SUCCESSFUL
CONVENTIONS
TAKE PLACE AT...
The hotel conveniently situated close
to the commercial heart of the Aus-
tralian capital.
The hotel with the experience, the staff
and special facilities conventions re-
quire.
The hotel with truly comfortable ac-
commodation.
Your convention runs really smoothly at The
Hotel Canberra. Your particular requirements
are closely attended to by experienced staff
and you use special rooms giving you the
comfort and privacy you require. Projection
facilities are available and of course you
receive the same renowned Hotel Canberra
service as other guests. Accommodation is
tasteful and comfortable. Every room has
bath or shower and toilet facilities. Round-
the-clock room service, naturally. Single
rooms from £3/17/6 a dav.
THE
HOTEL CANBERRA
Commonwealth Avenue, A.C.T.
Telephone: 7-2251.
The hotel that caters specially tor conventions.
HC-24
m
THE
H
0
T
B
L
C
l A
N
B
E
R
R
A
Invest in
INTEREST
UP TO
FOR
4
YEARS
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
AND UNSECURED NOTES
Applications for Debentures and Notes only accepted on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from:
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGO branch
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
A.G.C. House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
ASK THE ’WALES' FOR DETAILS
NDI3.N.
figure had risen to this level progressively
over a number of months.
Some of the downturn is, of course, ex-
plained by the rate of ore treatment,
down from 20,000 to 18,000 tons in
round figures. Head grade was also down
from .461 to .428 per cent. It is known
that there have been a few difficulties
with various aspects of the operation;
these are not mentioned at all.
As something was obviously amiss,
the directors could at least have indicated
how long it was likely to continue, even
if they were disinclined to name the
specific culprit.
Assuming (correctly, we hope) that
the setback is not a permanent one, the
group is still in a good position overall.
Estimated realisable value of production
to date is £710,000. Prospectus estimates
were for an annual figure of £630,000
once production was running smoothly;
that is, with an ore treatment rate of 5000
tons a week. In the latest period the rate
was only 4498 a week. In the previous
four weeks it had climbed to 5082 tons
a week.
Cheery Chamberlain
rosy future predicted by The Bul-
letin for Chamberlain (July 24,
p. 67) has been backed up by the recent
announcement from the WA tractor
manufacturer. Directors expect profit
for the year to June 30 to be in the vici-
nity of £300,000. Moreover, they are
confidently making plans for further ex-
pansion in the current year.
The profit estimate represents a for-
midable 60 p.c. on dividend-ranking
capital. It is about 12 p.c. higher than
last year’s record £295,000 and follows a
17 p.c. rise in sales from £6.4 million to
£7.5 million. Needless to say. cover for
the expected 12? p.c. dividend will be
more than adequate.
In the current year the cover is ex-
pected to be a little narrower. Paid
capital ranking for dividend will be up
from £550,000 to £BBO,OOO as a result of
the recent three-for-five premium issue.
On the other hand, continued success-
ful expansion could very well enable an
earning rate which is only marginally
lower than that for the latest year.
More solid base
ITooker finance co. is plainly and cf
intention being built up into a com-
pact and properly founded organisation.
Directors are making no bones about
establishing a very healthy swag of pro-
visions against any future eventualities.
The latest year to June 30 saw con-
solidated net profit rise moderately by


SSI
■ :\r;
m
?■
■
m
■fi-
-14 S m
• A i’ * iwm
• . M
I I*l
I# |§f- -il
■ 1 vJ
‘ ' Jv' ' J
•. V*> r
I
&
■
wmm
Electronic Data Processing Branch of the Queensland Treasury Department
TAKE YOUR CUE FROM QUEENSLAND
QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT, FIRST IN AUSTRALIA TO INSTALL AN ICT SERIES 1900 COMPUTER
The ICT SERIES 1900 Computer installed by the Queensland Treasury Department will process:
• Queensland’s Public Service payroll (approxi-
mately 30,000 employees patd fortnightly).
• Governmental accounts data, produce 1,000,000
cheques a year, post expenditure and receipts to
vote heads and print budgetary control reports.
• Annual indices for over 70,000 Births, Deaths
and Marriage Registrations each year.
• Electoral roll data for 800,000 electors.
9 Technical College and Apprenticeship Examina-
tions and Junior Public Examinations (including
notification to candidates, processing of marks
and analyses of results for about 27,000 candi-
dates a year).
9 A variety of technical and scientific work.
The ICT SERIES 1900 range was announced in a simultaneous world-wide release on September 29, 1964.
Only eight months after this announcement, the equipment was installed and fully operational in the Data
Processing Branch of the Queensland Treasury Department.
This computer was manufactured and assembled by ICT in England. After undergoing extensive quality
control testing and trial operation it was despatched from England by air on Saturday, June 12, and
delivered to the Treasury Building in Brisbane on Monday, June 14. It was fully operational within 72
hours of delivery.
Enquire now—
our telephone numbers are:
Sydney, 92-7191
Canberra, 4-0291
Hobart, 2-4542
Perth, 21-9481
Melbourne, 51-0241
Brisbane, 2-3701
Adelaide, 51-5188
I‘C*T
SERIES
0
I.C.T. International Computers and Tabulators Australia Pty. Ltd.
Australia's largest supplier of data processing installations.
IG T
£10,992 to £139,754 on loans and ad-
vances up from £5.16 million to £6.26
million. By a transfer of £50,000, con-
tingencies reserve has been brought to
£240,000. During the year, a further
£56,756 was actually written off as bad
debts (1963-64, £41,561).
Perhaps the best indication of firmer
progress is the board’s conviction of be-
ing able to distribute additional borrow-
ings among well selected mortgage busi-
ness, principally homes, home units and
residential land. “Greater borrowings are
necessary to increase the earning rate,”
the executive director, Mr Keith Camp-
bell, observes.
Last year produced two oversub-
scribed debenture issues, with more than
two million dollars coming from US as-
sociates. More American money looks
quite definite for later this year.
Earning rate has moved from 12.14
to 13.0 p.c., while dividend stays at a
cautious 8 p.c. The market felt able to
fetch the ss. shares up to par after a
day or two’s meditation on the results.
Benefits a plenty
T>rambles industries’ shareholders
need never complain about being
left out of the know by directors. Once
more an excellently detailed preliminary
letter has brought them good news for
the latest financial year. And the group’s
lively prospects are signified by another
issue to shareholders, the third in
twelve months.
Immediate new raisings will actually
total £1.9 million: £280,000 of ss. shares
placed privately at 16s. and £700,000 of
private debentures, both of these to
cover purchase of Kauri Holding’s steel
subsidiaries at Melbourne, FremanP.e,
Kalgoorlie and Darwin; finally a one-
for-ten to shareholders at a 7s. 6d. pre-
mium to bring in £920,708 (capital
£380,264, premium £540,434).
The shares have just reached their
best for the year at around 195., where
they yield a respectable 4 p.c. Post-issue
dividend is still expected to preserve the
current 15 p.c., the rate announced after
last year’s one-for-three bonus.
The latest year’s profit went up from
£721,449 to £892,974. to give an earn-
ing rate of 26.6 p.c. against 1963-64’s
30.1 p.c.
Brambles can expect healthy progress
from its well-diversified activities
materials handling, bulk liquid hauling,
metal treatment, industrial services, and
iron and steel merchandising. The some-
what wild engineering diversifications of
a few years ago are now forgotten in a
tighter and well-controlled engineering
section.


Geologists
NEW CONSOLIDATED GOLD FIELDS (A'SIA) PTY. LTD.
Applications are invited for the position of Geologists on the
exploration staff of this company.
Applicants should hold a Degree with Geology as a major subject,
and should have extensive experience in mining geology and the
investigation of metalliferous deposits.
The successful applicant will be based in Sydney but will be required
to undertake field duties throughout Australasia.
Commencing salary will be negotiated according to qualifications
and experience. Four weeks annual leave. A generous non-con-
tributory pension scheme applies after a qualifying period.
Field expenses are met by the company.
Reasonable fares and expenses to Sydney will be paid to the success-
ful applicant on appointment.
Applications setting out full details of qualifications and experience
should be forwarded to:
The Secretary,
HEW CONSOLIDATED GOLD FIELDS (A'SIA) PTY. LIMITED,
A.M.P. Building, Circular Quay, Sydney, N.S.W.
Tin Carries On
I>lacer Development and its associate Bulolo Gold
Dredging are to form, a tin prospecting company with
Tableland Tin Dredging NL. The new Mt Garnet Alluvials
Pty Ltd will have Placer and Bulolo with a 51 p.c. interest,
the other 49 p.c. belonging to Tableland. When capital is
required the proprietor companies will subscribe in proportion
to their holding.
Mt Garnet Alluvials will acquire Tableland Tin’s mining
tenements on Return Creek, Upper Return Creek and Wild
River, all in the Mt Garnet area of Queensland. Tableland will
retain its Smiths Creek leases.
The venture, which requires approval from the Queensland
Mines Minister, calls for Placer and Bulolo to put up £153,000
initially. This capital will be used to allow a three-stage
prospecting and testing programme to determine the area’s
potential for economic tin production.
Also on the tin front is Loloma Mining Corporation NL,
which expects its alluvial tin properties in Queensland to be
operative before the end of this month. Chairman Mr N. B.
Theodore says in a report to shareholders that nearly all
plant is on the site and erected for running-in and testing.
Contracts for excavation and cartage of tin-bearing gravels
have been arranged.
The alluvial tin deposit in the Stannary Hills block is
estimated to contain 800,000 cubic yards of payable gravel.
This deposit should provide a profitable undertaking while the
company tests other and much larger areas, Mr Theodore
says. He adds that, while it is too soon to forecast the extent
of future activities beyond the present alluvial operations,
directors hope to ultimately develop profitable mining from
one or more of the company’s ore deposits.
Farewell to BuloWs Gold
117ith only a year or two of workable areas left, Bulolo Goid
” Dredging Ltd has closed its operations as a result of an
accident to its No. 5 deep-digging dredge. The company’s
only remaining gold production is the hydraulic mining opera-
tion at Bulolo.
Before the accident to the dredge, directors reported a severe
fall in profit from 297,703 Canadian dollars to 105,300
dollars in the year to May 31. Despite the drop in earning
rate from 5.9 to 2.1 p.c., directors decided to pay a steady
10 p.c. (50 Canadian cents) dividend. The dividend require-
ment has not been covered since 1960 when profit of 822,425
Canadian dollars represented an earning rate of 16 p.c.
Bulolo’s major remaining asset is its holding of 291,464
shares in Placer Development Ltd with whom it is jointly
prospecting in Tasmania. Placer is currently trying to buy
the shares in Bulolo it does not own. Bulolo’s interests apart
from gold include Associated Plywoods Pty Ltd (wholly
owned), Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers Pty Ltd (49.9
p.c. owned), and pastoral operations in New Guinea.
Bulolo’s history started 34 years ago when it was formed
by two Australians, the late William Addison Freeman and
the late Cecil John Levien. Bulolo Gold Dredging was formed
in 1930 by the Australian-Canadian complex Placer Develop-
ment Ltd another Freeman enterprise.
At the peak of its gold-mining operations, in 1949, Bulolo,
using eight dredges simultaneously, won 185,016 ounces of
gold. Gradually the area has become worked out and in its
latest financial year the company won only 8718 ounces of
gold. But in its history Bulolo has pleased many shareholders
its dividends to date total 37 dollars a five-dollar share.
Less Than Average
ly/fELBOURNE-BASED Sydney Cooke established another profit
■ * record in its latest year to April 30. The result equalled
an estimated 16.3 p.c. on average capital increased during
the year by a one-for-five premium issue. This represented
an improvement on the 1963-64 rate of 15.4 p.c. Dividend is
to be 10 p.c. for the fourth year in succession.
The company operates in Fiji as well as throughout Aus-
tralia. It makes printing inks, nails, screws and adhesives, in
addition to looking after many of the general printer’s needs.
Expansion has been rapid over the last six years. During
this period, paid capital has grown from less than £1 million
to almost £2 million. Reserves have risen from £670,000 in
1960 to more than £1 million in the latest year.
Unfortunately, shareholders are still waiting to see a better-
than-average earning rate result from all this growth. The
figure has yet to recover to the peak 20 p.c. earned in 1959-60.
Many thought that the latest year would be one of con-
solidation. However, there were few second thoughts when
an issue was announced. Perhaps 1965-66 is the year in which
directors will settle down to establish an earning rate more in
keeping with the company’s excellent status and past history.
Change of Direction
/YDonnell, Griffin Industries Ltd, electrical engineer
and contractor, has bought out its American partner m
a recently formed contracting company following the failure
of the company to develop along the lines envisaged at the
time of its formation.
With a placement of 200,000 ss. shares at 9s. 3d. premium,
O’Donnell, Griffin has acquired the half-interest of US-based
Fischbach and Moore Inc. in Griffin, Fischbach and Moore
Pty Ltd. The Australian company was formed three years
ago with a nominal capital of £200,000.
It was established initially to apply for several large electrical
engineering contracts, one of which was the North-West Cape
Communications Centre. The company’s tender for this job
failed. It now operates in Victoria and Western Australia,
mainly in switchgear and as an extension of the basic
O’Donnell, Griffin business.
The placement of shares to buy out the American partner
will raise £142,500 and lift paid-up ordinary capital to
£408,165. Some of the funds raised will be used to provide
finance for expansion of the O’Donnell, Griffin activities
throughout Australia.


BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (£'000)
Year to June 30
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
Net outstandings
19017 20743
26072
29243
31150
Leased equipment
—
—
740
2598
Investments,
cash, etc.
962
2856
3658
3608
Fixed assets
146
184
250
356
Total assets
20125
23783
29981
33947
—
Short term debt
6565
7752
8479
6751
Long term debt
8198
10598
15239
19404
!
Bonk overdraft
—
295
Other liabilities
1512
1083
1975
1851
Ordinary capital
1343
1679
1679
2407
2407
Reserves
2507
2376
2609
3534
PROFIT STATEMENT
SUMMARIES
(£'000)
i
Interest
1012
1373
1467
1826
Depreciation
11
12
24
73
Tax provision
309
314
340
345
456
Earnings
430
474
502
560
705
Ordinary dividends
215
269
269
363
385
Surplus
215
205
233
197
320
Earning rate % (a)
20.8
22.8
24.2
25.2
29.2
Dividend rate % (a) 10.5
13.0
13.0
15.7
16.0
Dividend yield % (b) 3.7
3.5
3.6
4.6
4.6
High price (c)
21/6
23/7
27/-
21/6
Low price (c)
12/-
12/3
20/1
15/-
(a) Adjusted for ca
sh and
bonus
issues.
(b) Based on last
sale in August when account*
presented.
(c) Calendar year.
/
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Banking on a Bonus Issue
Market expectations from Associated Securities
Tt is always rather hazardous to attempt
A an appraisal of a company just be-
fore the annual report is issued. This is
mainly because the inaccuracies of the
appraisal can be revealed before the ap-
praisal itself has been forgotten. In the
case of Associated Securities Ltd, quite
a substantial amount of information has
been given on the results of the first
half of the year to June 30, 1965, and
the preliminary report has given some
information on assets levels as well as
on the year’s profits and dividends.
For some four or more years now,
Associated has reported to shareholders
in a clear and consistent manner so far
as the published balance sheet and profit
and loss statements are concerned. There
is, therefore, no reason to expect any
inconsistencies this year. At this stage,
the main difficulty is to guess the amount
of new money that was raised between
January 1, 1965, and June 30, 1965. To
do this, some assumptions must be made
regarding the present level of assets other
than those which have been mentioned
in the preliminary report. However, be-
fore making these guesses, an examina-
tion of the results of the preceding
three years should be interesting.
In the case of the other two finance
companies which have been examined to
date, the ratios which have been cal-
culated were the average rate of return
on net outstandings (including cash and
investments where appropriate) and the
average rate of interest that had been
paid on average borrowings. Some ad-
justments have ’ been necessary in the
two previous cases to allow for the in-
surance subsidiaries; Associated does not
have an insurance subsidiary, so the cal-
culation is rather easier. The following
table shows net profit before tax and
interest as a percentage of the average
“outstandings”:
6 months
Year to to
June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 31/12/64
9.35 9.92 8.66 3.62 8.52
The other factor is the interest paid
expressed as a percentage of the average
borrowings:
6 months
Year to to
June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 31/12/64
7.52 8.30 6.96 7.32 6.88
The first series exhibits a fairly dis-
tinct downward trend, the second does
not show any trend. In fact, it seems
quite obvious that taking the opening and
closing balances for “borrowings” in any
one year does not give an accurate
figure, for the 1962 figure is clearly
out of line with the others. It would seem
that the average figure should be about
15 p.c. greater, suggesting that a large
proportion of the increase in borrowings
took place in the first half of the year.
If we assume that the return on aver-
age “outstandings” has continued to de-
cline to, say, 8.4 p.c., the interest charge
for the year 1964/65 would have to be
of the order of £1.7 million, which
seems likely to represent about 6.1 p.c.
on average borrowings. I think it would
be more realistic to expect that the
average rate of interest paid has re-
mained about steady at 6.9 p.c. and
that the return on average “outstandings”
has improved this year to about 8.85
p.c. The possible justification for this
approach is that net profit before tax in
the second half of 1964/65 was more
than 15 p.c. greater than the first half.
The interesting trends are in the com-
ponents of the figure for “outstandings”:
Year to
June 30 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Net "hire
purchase" 10317 13794 16036 20764 21582 20571
Net "real
estate" 3450 5223 4707 4500 4322 4849
Secured
contracts 809 3339 5730
Leasing 740 2698
Cash, etc. 578 525 2236 3076 2762 n.a.
Investments 436 437 620 582 847 n.a.
While the trends are fairly obvious,
an index (1960—100) may help to indi-
cate the extent:
Hire
purchase 100 134 155 201 209 199
Real estate 100 151 136 130 125 140
Cash, etc.- 100 91 386 532 478 n.a.
Investments 100 100 142 133 194 n.a
Total 100 135 160 201 227 n.a.
Perhaps the most notable feature is
the substantial increase in cash and de-
posits and it is noticeable that the re-
turn on “outstandings” decreased quite
markedly in the year following the one
in which the substantial cash and near
cash holdings appeared in the year-end
balance sheet. While it would be inap-
propriate to attribute the decline in
profitability to this change, there is some
.reason to believe that the high liquidity
had some bearing.
The increase in “secured contracts”
(which was stated to be mainly bridging
finance in the 1964 report) has con-
tinued. It is also clear that Associated
has entered the field of leasing in a fair-
ly substantial way, although the port-
folio is not as large as that of General
Credits. Whether these types of finance
Will be as attractive, profit-wise, as the
hire-purchase business is difficult to say.
It seems likely that, provided the port-
folio is kept well spread, there is rather
less risk of default. As the incidence of
bad debts is critical to the actual profit-
ability of any finance company and as
current experiences in some areas are so
alarming, it is only reasonable for a
company of Associated’s standing to err
on the side of security.
As was said at the outset, it is not
possible to guess the amount of money
that might have been raised in the sec-
ond half of the 1964/65 year; in broad
figures, it is unlikely to have exceeded
£2 million. This would raise total liabili-
ties to about £32 million. It is worth
noting that the overall borrowing limita-
tion in terms of the unsecured note deed
permits liabilities to be seven times
shareholders’ funds. This permits another
£l2 million to be raised, so there is no
indication that the company will have to
seek any further equity capital for a
few years to come.
The past record does not rule out the
possibility of further bonus issues; with
the continuing increases in the earning
rate, such issues seem very likely. From
1959, issues have occurred about every
two years (except that a l-for-5 bonus
issue was made in 1960 and there was
no issue in 1961). If this pattern was to
continue, another bonus should be an-
nounced any moment now. The market
clearly expects this, as it has continued
to price Associated on a 4.6 p.c. divi-
dend yield, although most other finance
companies are priced to show a dividend
yield of between 6i p.c. and 7 p.c.


SELLING GOODS
BY THE TRUCKLOAD
IS NO HEADACHE
WHEN YOU
SELL THROUGH
GTV-9
fil
tTfl-S
f
SSffl
m
*■
rj.
m0 Q *
MU
f m
::
r 3s*»f £*>*%
*C<*3is^
'*4 Jt* *tt ■* ... ?
ivsr*
4§BBfc*sryfc:J* /
/
The photograph above shows the biggest ever single order of
ALKA-SELTZER being delivered to the SSW grocery chain ware-
house. □ Miles Laboratories, makers of ALKA-SELTZER, are staunch
believers in the selling power of GTV-9, particularly its famous
"live” feature IMT, and have been using this channel for a long time
to build their product’s share of a very competitive market. The
results have been very pleasing indeed (refer again to "very pleas-
ing” photograph above). □ If you want to sell BIG, buy time with
Channel 9.
9
AS2!


Invest in
INDUSTRIE ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
DEBENTURE STOCK
o
1
2
O
FOR 5 YEARS
(SECOND SERIES)
A.N.Z. or I.A.C.
How to apply Applications will be
accepted only on the printed forms attached to the Prospectus.
Your copy available from all Members of Stock Exchanges, all
Branches of the A.N.Z. Bank and I.A.C.
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER & CO.
8880
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
The Champion Low Yielder
James Har die’s dominant position
Tames Hardie Asbestos*Ltd lifted
** group profit by more than 20 per
cent in the latest year, maintaining its
dominant position in the Australian
asbestos industry.
And shareholders and potential share-
holders have recognised this fact by
pricing the shares so high that they show
the lowest dividend yield of any stock
listed on the Sydney Stock Exchange.
The company traces back 75 years, but
its present structure did not come into
effect until 1920. It now has factories
in all mainland States as well as New
Zealand.
During the past 12 months the rate of
building in Australia, both home and
industrial, has been maintained at a high
level. In order to meet demand, the
company has had all factories operating
at or near capacity. Despite the pressure
of higher external costs, the company has
been able to maintain internal costs at a
fairly steadv level, with the result that
cost increases for major product lines
were negligible. This has enabled out-
side competition to be coped with quite
adequately.
As in past years, the company has
maintained plant at a high level of
efficiency, despite the highly abrasive
nature of the materials handled. As
part of this policy, plant has been depre-
ciated at a rapid rate —far in excess of
that normally allowed by the Taxation
Commissioner. This has resulted in the
disclosed taxation provision consistently
exceeding the disclosed net profit.
Last year’s' disclosed profit was
£1,242,530. equal to 29.6 p.c. on capital;
taxation provision was almost 20 p.c.
higher at £1,499,966. Depreciation pro-
vision was £1,793,375 on plant and
equipment, which at balance date ap-
peared in the books at cost of
£10,922,271. Total depreciation to
March 31 w'as £7,718,619. The depre-
ciation provision for the latest year was,
in fact, greater than the increase in book
value of plant over the 12 months for at
March 31, 1964, plant at cost appeared
in the books at £9,244,332.
Dividend for the past 10 years has
been held at a well-covered 10 p.c.
except for the 1964 year, when the pay-
ment was augmented by bonus and tax-
free distributions totalling 3i p.c. The
dividend has been paid on capital which
has been increased fairly substantially by
bonus issues. In fact, the company has
made three bonus issues since listing in
1951—a l-for-2 in 1959, l-for-2 in 1955
and a l-for-10 in 1954.
Shareholders were called on to make
their first cash contribution since listing
in 1964, when they were offered one new
20s. share for every four shares held.
With the shares selling in the vicinity of
£7, and the issue being made at par, it
was virtually another bonus. The issue
lifted capital to the present £4.2 million,
all in ordinary shares.
Proceeds of the issue were to finance
development in the manufacturing subsi-
diaries, although the 1964 accounts
showed little hint of liquidity problems.
In fact, at March 31 balance date last
year, the company had £1,848,600 on
short term deposits—more than twice the
amount raised by the issue. And, de-
spite the large cash payment made for
the Wunderlich Humes acquisition, al-
most £500,000 was put into equities in
listed companies. At last balance date
these stood at £1,003,120 (with a market
value of £1,326,461) compared with
£544,507 (£878,284) a year earlier.
However, the company's ability as an
investor is not in keeping with its stand-
ing as the asbestos giant, for income from
listed securities brought in only £47,728
in the latest year.
Nevertheless, Jqmes Hardie has con-
tinued to earn record profits at a time


ACCOUNTS SUMMARY
o
o
p
March 31
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
Current assets
5104
6181
7997
8897
9358
Less current liabilities 4889
4531
4539
4778
5209
Working capital
215
1650
3458
4119
4149
Fixed assets
7834
8022
7462
7180
7394
Investments
260
255
455
545
1395
Intangibles
98
98
98
98
—
8407
10025
11473
11942
12938
Represented by:
“
3331
Capital
3331
3331
3331
4200
Reserves
4355
4982
6027
6491
6527
Loan funds
696
1687
1302
1266
1347
Minority interests
25
25
813
854
864
8407
10025
11473
11942
12938
Depreciation
1066
1319
1579
1724
1793
Taxation
821
862
1081
1293
1500
Net profit
573
651
709
937
1243
Dividend
333
333
333
416
420
Surplus
240
318
376
52]
823
Earning rate p.c.
17.2
19.6
21.3
28.1
29.6
Dividend p.c.
10
10
10
13J
10
Dividend yield (a)
2.5
2.0
1.9
2.1
1.9
High price (b)
85/-
87/-
110/-
154/-
132/-
Low price (b)
58/9
64/-
84/9
123/6
93/6
(a) End of June,
jb) Calendar year.
month accounts
presented.
m mm
Wi
£7;
2*i r
r«f
Introducing' Benson & Hedges
Special Smoking Mixture
... a new classic among the
world’s great pipe tobaccos.
Modestly priced at 7/6 a tin,
it is the right tobacco
when only the best will do.
And isn’t that all the time?
'‘""r:
'M
5®
m
m
si"
8H768.2.65
when strongly backed competitors
failed dismally. Late in 1961 Wunder-
lich Ltd and Humes Ltd, both leaders in
their particular fields, joined forces to
make asbestos pipes. Despite massive
injections of funds, the company, Wun-
derlich Humes Asbestos Pipes Pty Ltd,
failed to show a profit.
In July last year James Hardie came to
the rescue, paying the joint owners
£450.000 in cash and repaying £940,000
advanced by the two partners to the
venture. The total purchase price of
almost £1.4 million was reduced by
£378,000 received when Hardie resold
some of the land and buildings of the
defunct company back to Wunderlich.
Apart from the remaining assets, James
Hardie acquired something like £BOO,OOO
in accumulated losses by the deal.
The book value of the acquired plant
and stock was written down by almost
£750,000 against a special reserve
created by goodwill on consolidation, to
expected realisable values, and the
manufacturing activities integrated with
those of the major subsidiary of the
James Hardie group.
During the latest year the company
also announced a joint venture with
Colonial Sugar Refining. The partner-
ship manufactures, under James Hardie
management, thermal insulation products
formerly made by the James Hardie,
group, while Bradford Insulation In-
dustries handles the marketing as part
of a full range of thermal insulation
products.
Despite the recent issue, Hardie shares
are still selling at well over £5 each,
placing a market value of more than
£2O million on the operation. With the
dividend yield well below 2 p.c. and
earnings yield around 5} p.c., the market
is obviously still expecting additional
benefits. Capital reserves are sufficient
for at least a one-for-four bonus, which,
on the latest figures, would not place the
10 p.c. dividend in jeopardy.


GENERAL CREDITS
• LIMITED
ask any branch
OF THE C.B.A.
0
0
up to I=l 5-10 years
DEBENTURE STOCK
(SECOND SERIES)
Applications can only proceed on the form
enclosed with the Prospectus which may be
obtained from any recognized stockbroker,
or any branch of the Commercial Bank of
Aust. Ltd., and all branches of
808
277 William St. Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
6840
Underwriters:
lan Potter & Co.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Wild Market Oscillations
Even the leaders sometimes do it
TT used to be the shares of the smaller companies that showed the wildest price
movements. Not so now. Such a respected leader as MLC has been pushed up
and down several shillings over the last few days as the buying and selling forces
clashed head-on. Probably the person most interested in the outcome of this battle
is the one who took out put options covering the best part of thirty thousand shares!
After years of dullness, BHP came to
life with an announcement of a record
profit and a l-for-7 par issue. An
amount of 4s. was added very quickly
to the then market price of 495. This
could well be the turning point for the
share price. In fact, I think the shares
will end up over 50s. after the issue. In
other words, by buying now you are
probably getting the rights to the new
issue for nothing.
As a whole, however, the industrial
market has not come up to the per-
formance of the mining market. My
mainstay, tin, has come back into the
limelight with world prices now up to
£stglsoo again. My particular interest
in this field, of course, is Tableland.
Helping its share price along is the com-
pany’s improved rate of tin recovery.
In the last two months production on
a four-week basis has risen from about
50 tons up to almost 100 tons. The
dredge’s move into better ground came
just too late for the 1964-65 financial
year. But it does mean that the present
year could be a beauty.
Gold, also, is back in the news, and
talk about devaluation in Great Britain
has been revived. What’s more, the metal
will probably stay in the forefront for
the next few months as Britain faces
its most testing period of international
trade.
To present gold-mining in the port-
folio I chose my old friend, New Guinea
Goldfields. This company is actually a
two-way bet as half its profits come from
thriving industrial activities. These in-
clude a trucking service, a shipping
service, a sawmilling operation and a
coffee plantation.
Even though the share price of 4s. 4d.
is close to the high point, it’s still not
much above the par value of 3s. 6d.
Yet, since 1958, dividends have been
paid in every year, initially at an amount
of 3d. per year and then rising to 4d. in
1963. As these dividends are tax-free,
the effective yield (when compared with
taxed dividends) is in the vicinity of
10 p.c.
This purchase was not to be the finish
of my attack on the mining market. The
further addition to the portfolio was King
Island Scheelite, another company that
has featured in these columns before. As
with most mining companies, it is the
ruling world price of the metal mined
that dictates the share price movements.
Over the last year tungsten has almost
doubled in price, mainly because of
China’s reluctance to sell any of its
production in Western markets. And with
the Vietnam position deteriorating, the
Chinese attitude is unlikely to change.
In this light, King Island Scheelite shares
do not seem overpriced, especially as
the present market price is a few shillings
below 1965’s peak of 16s. 6d. I bought
400 at 14s. sd.
On the credit side of the account this
week was the sale of 200 AOG at
255. 6d. and the shorting of 400 Pioneer
Concrete at 13s. 9d. This latter sale was
made after the sudden reaction from
12s. lid. Tracing the price movement
further back, the fall from 14s. to
12s. lid. was after the announcement
of placements totalling 500,000 shares.
While placements on this scale may seem
the best method of expansion to the
directors, they are generally of no benefit
to existing shareholders and this fact is
being recognised by the market. If ever
a share price of a successful company
seems doomed to drift slowly down, it
appears to be this one.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
200 AOG, 25/6 £250
400 Pioneer Concrete, 13/9 .... £270
BOUGHT
1000 New Guinea Goldfields, 4/4 £222
400 King Island Scheelite, 14/5 £295
A debit balance of £233 remains.
The week's dealings left me holding:
Cost Cur-
No. of Nome of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
200 Tableland Tin 18/3/65 33/7£ 43/-
2000 Steamships
Trading, new 25/5/65 9/6 9/6
500 NAUC 28/6/65 7/- 7/9
2 Ford Debentures 5/7/65 £2OO £2OO
400 Mr Whippy 7/7/65 5/9 5/10
400 Wreckair 19/7/65 7/9 8/3
50 CSR 22/7/65 62/9 62/9
500 Theiss 22/7/65 4/- 4/-
1000 NG Gold 27/7/65 4/4 4/4
400 King Island
Scheelite 29/7/65 14/5 14/5
400 Pioneer Concrete 29/7/65 13/9 13/9


mum
- y-.
✓ •• ,Xv
&
•*K4S"
••••:
..Jf
■*«
/ ■ j
- '
» ,
■
. ->. 5 ,:
WHEN MINING IS YOUR BUSINESS
WZ
\is
a***
eV*
ws
w#
I
J&i
X
U
1
\
*
a- :*•
BBSS
;*: *
m
: : •:>• , -
. . . WHEN YOU HANDLE LIQUIDS . . “
WHEN YOU BUILD FOR
THE FUTURE . . .
mmi
m
i
km
mm
i mmm
is.. :.
«> V
mikmm
...whatever the job
GOODYEAR
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS PROVIDE YOU
WITH “TOTAL CAPABILITY”
This “Total Capability” carries right through every phase of Goodyear
activity, from the processing of raw materials to design and on to actual
installation.
With conveyor belting, transmission belting, hose or any industrial rubber
application, Goodyear industrial products offer not only “total capability”
but the long-term experience and know-how of the G.T.M. (Goodyear
Technical Man) in determining exact needs and meeting them efficiently
and economically.
If you have an industrial rubber problem, phone or write Industrial
Products Division of the Goodyear branch in your State.
GOODYEAR
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS
F 267


How to make your
money—make money
Without any risk whatsoever
your money can earn 6% per
annum (current rate) dividend
for one month, for one year, or
for any period at all. Your
investment plus dividend is
readily available for withdrawal
with NO brokerage or other
deductions you gain a net 6 %
p.a. paid twice yearly.
Your security is backed by £7 mill,
assets with strong liquidity reserves.
ETY
%/oT#
ST. GEQRGE& CRONULLA
PERMANENT CO-OPERATIVE
BUILDING SOCIETY LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE.- Co-operation House. 36 Ormonde Parade.
Hurstville. Phone 57 0201.
SYDNEY: 82 Elizabeth Street. Phone 28 2801
MIRANDA: 551 The Kingsway Phone 52 6466
Agencies
CHATSWOOD: Ist Floor, 389 Victoria Ave. Ph. 41 3570
PARRAMATTA: 21a Smith Street. Phone 635 7401
WOLLONGONG: The National Insurance Co. of N.Z. Ltd.
Suite 101 A.M.P. Building, 166 Keira St. Ph. 2 6285.
Mail to our nearest office,
ensive literature to . . «
NAME
ADDRESS - 2596
Please send free compn
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Mor e Signs of Farmer Unity
The significance of cross-membership
XX/hen one encounters something which
” one does not think possible, then
there are two courses open. One can shut
one’s eyes and pretend that there is noth-
ing to see. Or'one can accept what one
sees as fact and adjust accordingly.
On the subject of cross-membership of
farmer organisations, this writer has ad-
justed with great rapidity within the last
week or so. I always knew that there was
a good deal of cross-membership be-
tween the APPU and the Wheat and
Woolgrowers’ Association in Victoria,
and between the APPU and the United
Farmers in NSW. All of these bodies
undoubtedly pad their membership
figures a little to account for the mem-
bers who belong to both at the same
time (either because they are “joiners”
and like meetings or because they
genuinely believe that each organisation
has something to offer).
But cross-membership between the
Graziers’ Association and the Victorian
Wheat and Woolgrowers? It just did not
seem possible not until the recent
“vote yes” convention organised by the
Wheat and Woolgrowers in Melbourne,
the biggest convention yet with close on
1000 delegates from all parts of Victoria
in attendance.
The number of Graziers’ Association
members amongst the gathering was the
real point of interest at this meeting for
an observer who tries to be objective.
The speakers said nothing new and Sir
William Gunn didn’t turn up (his plane
was fogbound at Albury). If he had ar-
rived, it is doubtful if he would have
had anything new to say on reserve price
either. So what were these Grazier types
doing?
Was it some form of organised infil-
tration? A few minutes spent questioning
some of them removed any possibility
of that. James Bond may yet be used
to promote wool, but he has not become
a woolgrower.
No. These men are the new cross-
membership. They were there not to ask
difficult questions, nor to raise doubts,
nor to heckle. They are as much mem-
bers of the Wheat and Woolgrowers’ as
they are of the Graziers’.
This is possible. A man could not be
a member of the Labor Party and the
Liberal Party at the one time, in good
conscience, anyway. There’s nothing at
all to prevent this kind of cross-mem-
bership in farm organisations. That is
why the observers of the intricate trails
criss-crossing wool politics often see
shadows where there are none.
Despite setbacks which are bound to
occur, this cross-membership is the sure
indication that farmer unity is gradually
coming. True, the Woolgrowers’ and
Graziers’ Council, the Federal body of
all the State Graziers’ Associations, has
withdrawn from the National Farmers’
Union, the embryo national farm or-
ganisation. But here we have this new
development of cross-membership be-
tween the Graziers’ Associations them-
selves and Wheat and Woolgrowers’.
This writer was assured that there is
also a similar cross-membership going
on between the Graziers’ in NSW and
the United Farmers’ and between the
Graziers’ and the APPU.
The Wheat and Woolgrowers, only a
week ago, adopted a policy in relation
to the constitution of the Australian Wool
Industry Conference which will have
far-reaching effects. It means that the
Wheat and Woolgrowers and the APPU


CHEVRON HOTEL’S
GOLDEN GRILL
Compliments your good taste
In an atmosphere of gracious
living, the food, cellar and service
are supreme. Whether in a hurry
or with time to tarry, the service
keeps pace with your wishes. A
snack, a sumptuous repast, a cof-
fee, an aperitif, all are available
from morn till midnight. The
. menu is varied, reasonable in cost,
and handsomely presented. The
wine list is recognised as one of
the most comprehensive in Aus-
tralia. In the evening Alexander
Grant’s ensemble provides plea-
sant background music and invites
your personal request. The inex-
pensive luxury of the GOLDEN
GRILL is yours all day, every
day.
For table reservations phone 35.0433
CHEVRON HOTEL
MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY.
CHEV/19983
ST. JOSEPH'S COLLEGE
Hunters Hill
A competitive examination for TWC T
SCHOLARSHIPS will be held on Saturday,
September 25th, 1965.
These Scholarships are open to Catholic
boys who complete their Primary schooling
in 1965.
Entries close on Friday, August 20th,
1965. Conditions and form of entry will
be supplied on application to the Head-
master.
now share a common view namely,
that the Australian Wool Industry Con-
ference should be elected on a demo-
cratic basis; either with representatives
from each State or by an electoral col-
lege system as in New Zealand and
South Africa.
At present the Australian Wool Indus-
try Conference is made up of 25 dele-
gates each from the Woolgrowers’ and
Graziers’ Council (the Graziers) and from
the Australian Wool and Meat Produc-
ers’ Federation (the federal body of the
Victorian Wheat and Woolgrowers, NSW
United Farmers and corresponding
groups in other States). The APPU is
denied membership, and a sore point
this certainly is.
All right then. We now come to the
really intricate part of the maze. The
opponents of the reserve price plan
agreed to by the Wool Industry Confer-
ence have made the point that the
Conference is not a truly representative
body. It isn’t, either. It gives no voice at
all to the unknown number of growers
who belong to no organisation at all.
(Usually this figure is given as 40,000,
but that's only an educated guess.)
The fact that the Victorian Wheat and
Woolgrowers and the APPU now are
both urging that the Wool Industry Con-
ference become an elected body rather
than an appointed body can mean only
one thing. They are confident that they,
with their corresponding organisations in
other States, can get better than 25 seats
on the Conference through straightout
representation.
The Victorian Wheat and Woolgrow-
ers have tossed this matter around for
years without making it an issue. The
United Farmers have done likewise. They
are not likely to make it a big issue
until the referendum over reserve price
is held. But it is easily the most im-
portant single event that has taken place
on the unity front in many long months
and offsets the withdrawal of the Wool-
growers and Graziers’ Council from the
NFU.
The message should be clear. With the
Victorian Wheat and Woolgrowers mak-
ing common cause with the APPU, with
the United Farmers considered almost
certain to follow suit and with cross-
membership increasing between the
Graziers’ Associations, and all these
bodies, the Graziers’ Associations them-
selves are facing difficult times indeed.
At this stage it appears very likely that
the clincher in the reserve price issue
may be none of the things that anyone
says at meetings. It may be the Budget.
The referendum has now been put off,
by the Government, until October, by
which time the Budget will be known.
There may be some shocks in it for
woolgrowers — probably in relation t o
tax benefits they have enjoyed for so
long and which are a hidden form of
farm subsidy in Australia amounting to
goodness knows how many millions.
Woolgrowers are getting about six mil-
lion a year from the Government now
as a direct subsidy for promotion and
research; the reserve price plan gives
them access to about £50 million which
may, or may not, be used.
A nasty Budget, for woolgrowers,
could be nicely compensated by the pro-
mise of all those millions of taxpayers’
money. Woolgrowers, like the rest of us,
can hardly expect to have their cake and
eat it too. Many of them are clearly
hopeful that the reserve price system will
be the cure-all for all things. In this they
could be disappointed.
Because they are so well organised,
and vocal, we hear a great deal from
the organisations on reserve price. Yet
this matter of cross-membership makes
one wonder whether the organisations
are as numerically strong as they assert.
The organisations and their opponents
(the Free Marketers) may well be fighting
each other on the high level of the hypo-
thetical and the technical. They may be
ignoring the section which is numerically
the strongest of all.
This section is made up of wool-
growers who belong to no organisations
at all, attend no meetings at all, and who
simply grow wool and go to bed early.
Whatever the numerical strength of this
section really is, one thing now seems
evident: it is much larger in numbers than
anyone, in any organisation, cares to
admit.
Not Being All Bull
Or the trials of scientific research
HThe trials of the world’s most famous
A bull, Lindertis Evulse, are known ;n
all parts of the world where cattle are
raised. Briefly the story is this: the bull,
an Aberdeen Angus (the Aberdeen is
retained everywhere except in Australia,
where we call the breed, officially, An-
gus) cost 180,000 dollars at Perth (Scot-
land) sales two years ago. Black Watch
Farms, of New York, bought him. He
was described as “near perfect”. Alas,
he failed to. sire a calf.
He was inspected by world famous
veterinarians. Some pronounced him
“nervous”. Others said he had a
“psychological” problem. Others said
that surgery could cure him. The latter
group won. But the first operation fail-
ed. Lloyd’s of London paid Black Watch
Farms 180,000 dollars compensation
(one can only imagine the premium for
an insurance like this).
Recently another veterinarian obtain-
ed permission to try again, with surgery
perfected (so the story goes) in a clinic
in France for impotent males (men, not
bulls). If this latest operation is success-
ful (it will not be known if it is for
about six months), then both Lloyd’s and
the veterinarian will get 100 dollars for
each calf Lindertis sires. As he is
theoretically capable of siring 10 mil-
lion dollars worth of calves in the next
10 years, both the insurance company
and the vet should come out of it very
well indeed. Time will tell.
In general, infertility is a problem in
Australian beef breeding too. It is esti-


Trinity Grammar School,
Summer Hill, Sydney,
requires for 1966 a MATHE-
MATICS MASTER to take
charge of the Department of
Mathematics in the School.
The School also requires an
ASSISTANT MATHEMATICS
MASTER for 1966.
Applications should be sent,
with copies only of references,
to the Headmaster.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: LESLIE MATHEW FUGE' TAKE NOTICE
that MAJORIE lONE FUGE has filed a
Petition No. 2431 of 1965 for Divorce on the
ground of desertion. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the Ist
day of September, 1965, to obtain a copy of
this Petition without charge from A. G.
KNOX, Solicitor, of 55 Market Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: BERYL BROWN. TAKE NOTICE that
VALERIE IRENE WALKER, of 182 Shortland
Avenue, Killarney Vale, in the State of New
South Wales, has filed a Petition for Dis-
solution of Marriage in Suit 1441 of 1960 on
the ground of your adultery with her hus-
band, ALBERT WILLIAM WALKER, and
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the Petitioner
has filed a Discretion Statement in this Suit
and will be seeking the exercise of the dis-
cretion of the Court. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 30th day of August,
1965. A copy of the Petition may be obtained
by you without charge from MESSRS. E. R.
ABIGAIL & CO., Solicitors, 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: JOHN ALLAN GRAHAM, late of 55a
Brown Street, Paddington, in the State of
New South Wales. TAKE NOTICE that LOIS
ANN GRAHAM has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 961 of 1964 on the grounds of
desertion and separation. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney on or before the 20th day of Sep-
tember, 1965, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
ALFRED J. MORGAN & SON, Of 129 Pitt
Street, Sydney. —C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: LESLIE HAROLD KNOX, late of Lane
Cove. TAKE NOTICE that MARGARET RUTH
KNOX has filed a petition for Divorce No.
2518 of 1965 on the ground of desertion. If
you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 9th
day of September, 1965, and obtain a copy
of the Petition and Notice of Petition with-
out charge from GREGG MILNE & CO.,
Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
mated that infertility costs the industry
about £lO million a year.
Now the road the young research
graduate has to follow can be rough.
A certain young graduate, prompted by
the Lindertis story, has revealed to this
writer that he has a theory which, un-
fortunately, no one will take seriously.
He wants to investigate thoroughly and
scientifically the relationship between the
fertility of a bull and the size of his
genital organs. Not just the size, the
shape and other factors would come into
it.
He says that one of his superiors was
visibly shocked when first approached
and the graduate now feels that he is
under observation “as some sort of
queer”. He has got, strangely enough,
support from more than one breeder.
These men have confessed, privately,
that they are always impressed by a bull
which is “well hung”. But they refuse
to support the graduate anxious to start
scientific experiments any more than
that. Why so?
In judging of dairy cows in the ring
the judges invariably make a great point
of inspecting, and feeling, the udders of
the cows. In judging bulls, if they do
have a look, they do it with a sort of
sideways glance and in a hurry.
The only advice this writer can offer
is that, if at first you don’t succeed, try
again. Either he will succeed eventually
or some bull will elevate him 100 feet
in the air. He is clearly a young man
bound to go a long way.
The Challenge to Butter
Collapse of margarine restrictions?
By SIMON RUSSELL
Opeaking to Queensland dairy factory
managers and secretaries at the
opening of their annual conference re-
cently, Primary Industries Minister Ader-
mann said, “I think the dairy industry
has good reason to be encouraged by the
slowing down in the rate of decline (of
butter consumption) in the last year or
two. If consumption per head can be
stabilised, even at this new level, our
population increase will ensure a steady
growth of several thousands of tons (of
butter) a year from the present figure of
around 115,000 tons”.
Two days before Mr Adermann spoke
in his home State of Queensland, Pro-
fessor Fred. Gruen, of Melbourne’s Mon-
ash University, suggested to a group of
Gippsland dairy farmers that govern-
ment restrictions on margarine produc-
tion could collapse within five or six
years, with a. consequent serious effect
on the local butter market. The likely
fly-in-the-ointment? According to Pro-
fessor Gruen, an agricultural economist,
it will be Queensland. He said Australia
was following the pattern of events in
the US.
There, margarine production was
limited to protect the dairy farmer, until
growers of vegetable-oil crops started
applying pressure on their Governments.
In the end the vegetable-oil farmers won.
Margarine production has boomed to a
point where it now sells in the US at
about half the price of butter and but-
ter consumption has dropped to 71b. a
head.
Professor Gruen said production of
vegetable oils in Queensland was grow-
ing at a rapid rate. According to him, it
is inevitable that pressure will be brought
to bear on the Queensland Government
to lift margarine restrictions. Then, be-
cause of Section 92, the other States
will be forced to follow suit.
What does this mean for the dairy
farmer? As Mr Adermann pointed out,
Australian butter consumption plummet-
ed from 30.6 lb. a head in 1953-54 to
23.4 lb. 10 years later. Latest local sales
figures suggest a further drop in recent
months.
Professor Gruen has made it clear that
battling with butter is futile. He is back-
ed up in this view by a Sydney Univer-
sity colleague, Professor K. O. Campbell.
They both say this is not the end of the
dairy industry. Australia is virtually
starved of diversified dairy products,
which are readily available in the US
from supermarkets and the daily milk
van.
Varying fat grade ■ milks, flavored
milks, milk desserts, fancy cheeses, ghee,
ice-creams are all obtainable in a wide
variety. But in Australia it is still large-
ly take what you get.
Already consumption of cheese here,
particularly fancy cheeses, is on the up
and up. Mr. Adermann spoke of an
Australian consumption of 35,000 tons
out of an Australian production of
57,700 tons. He did not say if this fig-
ure included fancy cheeses being im-
ported into Australia at a rate of about
3500 tons a year.
The Australian Dairy Produce Board’s
policy is to spend two-thirds of its pro-
motion budget, now bumped up to
£400,000 a year through increased far-
mer levies, on butter promotion for the
Australian market. The balance is spent
mainly on cheese. Yet the board still
has no real evidence to suggest that its
promotion to date has done anything to
slow down the drop in consumption, and
it certainly has not reversed it.


•• • •
Jk_
.
: .1
ORDER FORM
THE BULLETIN BINDER
Box 5252 1 G.P.0., Sydney
Please DISPATCH
BULLETIN BINDERS, price IS/- a copy (post free). I
enclose tft cheque/posta! note.
Name of sender
Address
State
It more than one binder is ordered, attach list giving full
name, address, State and, if overseas, country.
•BINDERS
for The Bulletin
For 15/- you can keep three months’ copies of The Bulletin
in a cloth-bound, gold-lettered binder, ready for easy refer-
ence. The binders are ideal for libraries, where The Bulletin
is in constant demand, and for business houses where frequent
reference is made to past financial features; ideal, too, as a
gift for a friend.
end 15/- (cheque or postal note, not cash, please) to “Bulletin
Binder,” Box 5252, G.P.0., Sydney, together with the coupon
and address label below.
ADDRESS LABEL
Name
Address
HiHunui., mu
_
‘"iinniiiiHim Side iiiimimnmin
Sender kihmihmh
If undelivered, please return to Bos 5352, G.P.0., Sydney.
THE BULLETIN BINDER
PRINTED MATTER ONLY
POSTAGE
PAID
SYD.NET
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 859
ACROSS
I—Being crazy, shoots through the ironmongery.
(4, 3,5)
9—Exponent of mental treatment who is unbalanced
by the capital offender. (15)
10 — Before some Scot article written by us is slow
burning. (11)
11— Again 20-down. (3)
12 — Satisfied with what’s in the container. (7)
14—What’s backward in games? They help to give a
sharper performance. (6)
17—Attraction is all you go on
about! (6)
19 —Sweet, affectionate creature.
(7)
23 Circuit-backed buddy. (3)
24 Description of the great
Sobers century of professional
cost helps to keep us awake.
(5, 6)
26 Even service can be Verdi’s
opera massacre. (8, 7)
27 Preparing to make mutton
pancakes? (9, 3)
DOWN
1— Planes crashed in town. (6)
2 Herb is your first person. (5)
3 A frustrate looks across. (7)
4 Ted is upset before Claude
leaves the express. (8)
5 None stupid enough for a
Scandinavian university town.
(6)
6 Tea service’s sex appeal in the
crossing. (7)
7 Utensil for despatching a girl
who has been slighted. (7)
8— Fit up fuss on a dance, but
it’s not a Latvian relative of
Lorna. (8)
13—Painting medium to defeat a
smear in a seascape. (8)
15—Musicians who need a lot of
pluck. (8)
16—Paramour holds nothing on
approval, so make a tour of
inspection. (4, 4)
18—Football girl who is a beauty
has friction with another
measly trouble-maker. (7)
20— Makes a brief call to observe
the commandments! (5, 2)
21 — Educated seafarer in low and
high rock. (6)
22 Sambo is thrown over. (6)
25—Refer to change being less
restricted. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 858


>■
T CO \
■■■-■
+r
> mmm 4
is
■./
-•3SS COrtfCHWESi.™ SuPEW®
OSUCE OF FRANCE
x:*£>-iTS 1 P -sT £ fl. T> oU**»
Hennessy is the Greatest Name in Cognac Because...
for two centuries the Hennessy family through seven
generations have built up the largest and finest reserves of
Cognac in the world. That’s why the standard of
excellence never changes. The high quality is guaranteed.
HENNESSY
BRAS ARME
COGNAC
In this Distinctive Bottle.
N.S.W. Agents: Gollin & Co. Ltd., Harbottle, Brown & Co. Pty. Ltd. All other States: Gollin & Co. Ltd.


J i.
% * ■'>
#• \
1
H
$ Wjf
■?
bt
I
JL*
New edition
ENCYCLOPAEDIA
BRITANNICA
now available direct from the publisher on
Book a Month
Payment Plan
you get all 24 volumes now—pay later!
WHAT WOULD YOU SEE IF YOU
LOOKED INSIDE HIS MIND?
Perhaps a hundred thousand things—because his interests
are so wide they cover the whole great world. And every one
of these interests is important. They are the seeds of talent.
Some may even form the basis for his career. But there is
no quick way to tell which ones reflect true ability. Only
time—and encouragement—can do that.
To provide such encouragement is one of the many reasons
for having Encyclopaedia Britannica in the home. Britannica
encourages a child to reach for knowledge. It takes him as
far as his young mind can go, then leads him still further
when he is able. For Encyclopaedia Britannica covers in depth
every conceivable interest a growing mind could have.
No other reference set can do so much to help a child take
full advantage of his talents and to help develop them into a
career interest, because no other reference library goes so
deeply into every field of human endeavour.
The latest edition of Britannica the greatest
treasure of knowledge ever published —is the
greatest in our almost 200-year publishing his-
tory. All 24 handsome volumes of this world-
renowned.reference library will be delivered to
your home NOW direct from the publisher. You
pay later at a cost so low it is as easy as buying
a book a month!
Equivalent to a library of 1,000 books
The Encyclopaedia Britannica is the most valu-
able gift you can give yourself and your family
the priceless gift of knowledge. Information
on every subject significant to mankind is con-
tained in its new edition. It is equivalent to a
library of 1,000 books, bringing you the know-
ledge and authority of world-recognised leaders
in every field.
Just think of a subject and you’ll find it in
the Encyclopaedia Britannica whether it is
information on the rules of a sport, the back-
ground of a religion, how to build a brick arch
in a fireplace, or the science of launching a
guided missile.
The new Britannica almost “televises" informa-
tion to you, with 25,042 magnificent photo-
graphs, maps, and drawings. In every respect,
Britannica is the largest and most complete
reference set containing 27,357 pages and over-
-38,000,000 words.
Symbol of a good home
Encyclopaedia Britannica cannot help but have
a lasting effect on you as well as on the growth
and development of your children in school and
in later life. Benjamin Franklin said: “An
investment in knowledge pays the best interest,”
and Britannica gives you the accumulated
knowledge of the world in clear, easy-to-read
language and superb illustrations. It is essential
in every home where education is valued and
respected.
FREE ►
Preview Booklet and Decimal
Currency Pocket Computer
Simply fill in and mail the coupon today . . .
without cost or obligation our beautiful new
booklet plus FREE a Decimal Currency
Pocket Computer with directions for use
including how to ADD, SUBTRACT.
DIVIDE or MULTIPLY. However to avoid
disappointment, please mail the coupon today,
before it slips your mind.
ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA INC., 300 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
Mail Coupon Now
for
FREE BOOKLET
*PLUS O
FREE DECIMAL
CURRENCY POCKET
COMPUTER
Encyclopaedia Britannica Department EB (gj
300 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me free and without obligation vour colourful Preview Booklet
which pictures and describes the latest edition of ENCYCLOPAEDIA
BRITANNICA—aIso a free decimal currency pocket computer; and complete
information on how I may obtain ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA direct
from the Publisher on the book a month payment plan.
Name
(please print)
Address
City- State
In New Zealand, write E. 8., Post dike Box 751, Auckland.
