

The Bulletin
BARRY HUMPHRIES’ RECORD - SPECIAL OFFER
DECEMBER 1 1, 1965
TH -
Gough Whitlam s
Long Way Rountl
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper,
Australia 2/-, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l, Malaysia $1


11111 :
__
■
Quite.
■
'. ' :
Biil#
i-V' J '
-
i Took 169
years to get here
\MmjL .a^HH
Made a lot
of friends on
the way.
■
K
\
New here,
aren’t you? j
}
9
m
as
■■■
ASPEN
fei
/ I
%
s
j?. ' ■ -u&m
s
r Mm
’'wximt*# » m 0»
iltliH
i PI fit
HHH
&m§S&
■"5
______ .'j
m
'Mwmm
London, Paris, New York, Singapore and Hong Kong ... in fact 120 countries
throughout the world know the 169 year old secret. IPs Harveys unique art of blend-
ing. Now, you too can discover it in Harveys Aspen Cream, blended especially
for Australia by Harveys of Bristol, England . . . makers of fine sherries since 1796.
Mr. John C. T. Harvey , now in Australia on
behalf of a magnificent wine
Harveys Cream is a Sweet. Also ask for Harveys Medium Dry and Harveys Extra Dry . . . whichever suits your taste.


Chevron Hotel
«
••..
Cocktail Bat
Theatre Restaurant
r*.
Oasis Smorgasbord
View from Suite
For the best
EXPERIENCE
in Australia ...
CHEVRON ... in the heart of fascinating King’s Cross —minutes Trom
sporting facilities and business houses. Where experience and new
concepts of luxury satisfy the world's most discriminating people.
ACCOMMODATION ... all rooms and suites fully air-conditioned —own
bath, toilet, TV, radio and phone—overlooking beautiful Sydney Harbour.
FOOD AND ENTERTAINMENT with an excellent cellar. Golden Grill-
breakfast or dining by candlelight with soft music.
Silver Spade—unequalled cuisine, international artists and dancing
nightly.
Oasis Lounge. Smorgasbord. Light entertainment and dancing nightly
for the young in heart.
CONVENTIONS, RECEPTIONS, EXHIBITIONS ... Ask for Chevron’s
booklets, “Planning Made Easy” and “Entertaining Made Easy.”
When entertaining or staying at Chevron it will be your best experience
ever.
@
ik
gUL
SYDNEY
RESERVATIONS: CHEVRON HOTEL
MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Phone: 35-0433. Cables: “Chevron Sydney”
MELBOURNE: 51-1281 or any Travel Agent
AGENTS FULLY PROTECTED
Send for illustrated brochure
Avis Rent A Car
AVIS
AVIS ADDS TO VOUR EXPERIENCE
See more, do more, have more fun when you drive a sparkling
new AVIS car. The car of your choice will be waiting for you al
the airport, railway station, shipside, or will be delivered to Chevron Hotel as part of the
Chevron/Avis service. And remember, you and the car are protected by proper insurance.
The Bulletin
Established 1880
DECEMBER 11, 1965.
VOL. 87, No. 4476
( GOUCe WHITLAM
| Man without a faction 17
STANLEY KORMAN
The saga 23
GATTELLARI
The silent 40,000 28
DM K’s FATAL MISTAKE
Too persuasive 41
TANNER .... 13 LETTERS 44
ROSS CAMPBELL 30
BATMAN 31
THIS AUSTRALIA
The backbenchers’ revolt 10
Crawford on the Vernon Report .... 11
The wheat price scandal 12
Saigon without dreams 12
Singapore’s trade plans 15
OVERSEAS
Indonesia: Why the PKI failed 36
Rhodesia: The Salisbury carpet-
baggers 39
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
Perth's Depommifted Festival 48
TELEVISION: Propitious Project
’65 49
THEATRE: “ Who’s Afraid” re-
visited 50
“Dear Me, the Sky is
Falling” 50
FILMS: Bunny Lake is Missing .... 50
BOOKS: Four Plays, Patrick White 52
MacDougal's Farm, Eric
Lambert 53
BUSINESS & FINANCE
Portents for the brokers 57
More Kalgoorlies and Isas 64
Speculator’s annual report 78
man on the land
Electoral college for the AWIC? .... 61
Editorial Office: Park House, 54-58 Park
Street, Sydney. Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


THE SWINGING WORLD
"Sammy
Daws Jnr.
A NATIONAL TELEVISION
NETWORK SPECTACULAR
WITH GUEST STARS
PETER LAWFORD
BILLY DANIELS
LOLA FALANA
THE LESTER WILSON DANCERS
'• t
7
< f /
g;
\ -
'. .•,•*,-*?*«' i-s*
•s#*■ v Vg
)i* I
sir
r .-'
& #
■>
Sammy Davis Jnr. : actor,
singer, dancer, mimic and
musician : voted Entertainer of
the Year by CUE Magazine
in America : currently thrilling
New York audiences with his
brilliant performance in
“Golden Boy” : Sammy’s
effortless drive and engaging
personality make “The
Swinging World of Sammy
Davis Jnr.” an hour of
outstanding television
entertainment.
Brought to you by Ronson
TCN9 SYDNEY Sunday Dec. 12 at 7.30 p.m.
NBN3 Newcastle „ „ „ „ „
WIN 4 Wollongong „ „ „ „
GTV9 MELBOURNE
QTQ9 BRISBANE
NWS9 ADELAIDE
STW9 PERTH
Monday Dec. 13 at 7.30 p.m.
u tt n ?t
if if if if if
if if if ii ii
NATIONAL TELEVISION NETWORK
FOR THE BEST AND BRIGHTEST SHOWS
Y 569


® ANOTHER REASON WHY INDUSTRY SHIPS VIA EMERY AIR FREIGHT
ee e e O O O O
In Europe (as in the U.S.A.)
your shipment via Emery
never stops for sleep
Every Emery Air Freight office
has men working all night.
Your shipment is sped along whether
it passes through or arrives day or night.
On your next air shipment from
the United Kingdom or the Continent
specify Emery Air Freight.
Melbourne call 379-5449
Sydney call 67-0381
V*
EMERY AIR FREIGHT
THE PRESIDENT'S AWARD FOR EXCELLENCE IN EXPORT


BSS
II
I l 55
5 3
l
1,,...?...
:-
4c. . .
i
{M? / **^i-~*"
I
g: Mi
yM" ; '■ '
X/
5 -i «W M. . '.■£s £ ,' {
X/
► X
X
r
/
:
Jv Vv
! U
5m
m
w/ze/2 young Bobby
has his own business
. . . chances are he’ll be using Phil-
gas from Phillips 66, world’s
largest producers and marketers of
L.P. Gas. Clean-burning Philgas is
Ideal for flame cutting, drying tun-
nels and ovens, aerosol propellants,
saltbath heating. In fact, wherever
and whenever heat is required in
Industry or the home Philgas is the
efficient, low-cost answer. Philgas
also offers tremendous savings as
fuel for fork lift trucks, other indus-
trial trucks and stationary engines.
Philgas brings to Australia a wealth
of experience and know-how in L.P.
Gas that will benefit homemakers,
commerce and every industry today
and all the young “Bobbys”,
businessmen of the future.
m PH ILGAS
From the world’s largest LP. Gas Company
TO PHILGAS,
235 Clarence Street, SYDNEY, N SW.
Please forward me detailed informa-
tion on Philgas.
Name:
Address:.
State
»G7IB


pSUALLY AT THIS TIME OF THE YEAR PEOPLE EVERY-
WHERE BEGIN KNOCKING THEMSELVES OUT TRYING
(TO THINK OF.:THE APT QUOTATION" FOR CHRISTMAS
KDVERTISEMENTS, CHRISTMAS CARDS, CHRISTMAS
PARTY INVITATIONS AND WHO KNOWS WHAT? SO
FAR AS WE’RE CONCERNED THE SPIRIT OF CHRIST-
MAS IS PRETTY WELL SUMMED UP FOR ONCE AND
ALL IN SIX SIMPLE WORDS WE ALL KNOW SO WELL
mi, o
-<?
N
-v>
V' N
s?-.
c
<£?
'ij
MBT
V
w
V
* ,
JO
C^/STMAS
Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited and Associate Companies throughout Australia.
CRI2B


-i*.
■
&
.
, ,>•■■■■■
&$ SI x I ll fe I
mm
m
.
HHHhHI
i
V-' ; : : -- ■'
: m
,
;' .. ■ .:•/..' : : . ■ . S--'- ; ’.
mmmmrn <v g ill i\> § - - ■ -
■■■
"£ti.
■ ■
J)
:■! ■■
z,
U
3
W
7\3
X
m
im
:. : ->\'
*
iii
; ■
~ *«* .i
.
1
mm
■n
>£' W ■
From now on, you can enjoy Philippine Air Lines service to all points East. To Manila.
To Hong Kong. To Taipei. Even to San Francisco. (East from the East!). Thanks to PAL.the
East starts just eight miles out of Sydney. Where PAL flies from Kingsford Smith Airport with
the finest jets aflight. The only way you get extra services like international cooking, not just
food. First-run, in-flight colour movies, not just magazines. Nine music channels (two stereo),
not only conversation. And to top it all Filipina-style personal attention a rare combina-
tion of Eastern manners, Spanish grace, and American savvy. All on the most modern fan jets
flying, giant DCB's, the smoothest yet. At no extra charge. So jet East best. All the way. With
PAL (that's the one airline that services eight others and serves everyone who flies it!)
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES
eg. «9
For details. PAL flight schedules, and complete Philippines tour
information see your Travel Agent or mail this coupon.
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES C/- G.S.A. Ansett-A.N.A.
4A Martin Place. Sydney. 489 Swanston Street. Melbourne. Cnr.
Ann St. and North Quay. Brisbane. 140 North Terrace. Adelaide.
98 Williams Street, Perth. 62 Northbourne Avenue, Canberra.
178 Liverpool Street, Hobart. 54 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
Name . .
Address....
....Phone


ONE
MORE
WEEK
flight and Day
I We couldn’t help feeling a twinge of
jregret that Harry Jensen was no longer
(Lord Mayor of Sydney when we heard
(about Brisbane’s proposed new fountain
which will play “Waltzing Matilda” night
and day.
| Just a rumor of this, and Jensen would
{have been off to Brisbane, via his favorite
Tivoli Gardens, Copenhagen, and in no
time at all Sydney would have had a pro-
posed fountain in Hyde Park which
played “Waltzing Matilda” night and day.
Now Svdney will have to fall back,
n a manner of speaking, on the John
Msen ceiling of the new Lord Mayor,
lohn Armstrong. Could it be that
line day we will have in the Town Hall
in Olsen ceiling which plays “Waltzing
llatilda” night and day?
Home Ground
When we saw Project ’6s’s “The Aus-
tralian Londoners” we thought to our-
elves: isn’t it about time someone tack-
ed that small, brave band. “The Aus-
alian Australians”. We know that to a
nan, when approached, they would say:
l l’ve been waiting for this phone call
for years. It's about time those people
over there knew why we really have
to live in Australia”.
But the moral is, never make jokes,
pore Project ’66 is very old it plans to
fo just this.
Westward Ho!
The man from the Perth Festival was
n the East, as they say in the West, this
jeek. His first call was to the Australian
Elizabethan Theatre Trust, where the
'romotions chief proudly showed him the
urrent issue of “Trust News” which dis-
missed at length THE Festival. This was
hat jumped-up Adelaide Festival. Next
! e ar’s Adelaide Festival is the fourth;
ferth’s is the fourteenth.
I One of the imaginative things Perth
Festival is doing is using the 102-year-
F Asylum, on the road to Fremantle,
or a son et lumiere presentation. After-
hrds, the Asylum becomes a maritime
|useum. It now seems unlikely that
tat arch-vandal, the Commonwealth
Government, will turn over Sydney’s Cus-
toms House for a national maritime
museum. There have even been crass
suggestions that the museum should be in
inland Canberra. As a compromise, why
shouldn’t the national museum be in the
West, which can at least make up its
mind and which has a maritime history
just as interesting as the east coast’s.
Serious
Artist Martin Sharp, who now appears
likely, along with several others, to go
through life explained away as “one of
the ‘Oz’ boys’’, is having an exhibition of
paintings, cartoons, collages and an oc-
casional assemblage at Sydney’s Clune
galleries.
“I’m not trying to make this show a
big giggle,” Sharp said. “I’m pretty
serious. I know people probably won’t
take it seriously because I’ve been a
cartoonist.”
How'ever, he has prevailed upon the
galleries to install a jukebox for the
duration of the exhibition. That should
solve his problem.
Luxury
If we had to find a phrase to sum up
the Australian ideal of gracious living
we would discard “brick veneer” and
“triple-fronted bung.” in favor of some-
thing we snatched from the real-estate
pages of an afternoon daily: “Sewered
luxury”.
Where else in the world could one
contemplate UNsewered luxury?
Our ideal of sewered luxury is the new
24-storey, £4-million Sydney Water Board
building. On a clear day, we are told,
from the roof you can see a panorama
of Sydney’s unsewered areas and even
the Warragamba dam, the plentiful waters
"That was no lady. That was my
son."
of which cannot reach Sydney because of
inadequate pipelines. One item the new
building doesn't seem to have which the
old one had is a bubbler in the foyer.
The Board has grown more self-con-
scious about giving away free samples of
its product.
Priority
It was fairly unfortunate that in the
same week in which the spokesman for
an Aboriginal deputation to Canberra
suggested that most of that race’s prob-
lems could be solved at the price of one
jet bomber £4.5 million the Com-
monwealth Government should have an-
nounced details of its new VIP air
fleet. This involves scrapping the two
specially fitted Viscounts one of
which belonged to the Shah of Persia
at present on the job and buying
seven new aircraft at a cost of £6 million.
The Aboriginals just will have to time
things better, and. we should think, to
wait some time longer.
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
You're a stinkin flea.
—"Rocky" Gattellari to a Pressman who
had tipped S. Burruni to win.
There was plenty of cheating in Changi.
The Bishop of Birmingham,
the Rt Rev. Leonard Wilson.
I fear the turnover in each election
would be much too great if Parliamentary
debates were televised.
Sir Robert Menzies.
What Hal Porter needs to do is to throw
off the mantle of Tennessee Williams
which seems to cling, like the shirt of
Nessus, round the shoulders of so many
Australian dramatists.
Jeremy Kingston in "Punch".
Sir Robert Menzies was not willing to
go to Rhodesia on his own.
Harold Wilson.
1 should like to ask all white couples
who can to have a white child for the
Republic of South Africa.
Michael Botha, Deputy Minister
of African Affairs.
Art is small beer. The really serious
things in life are earning one's living so
as not to be a parasite, and loving one's
neighbor.
—W. H. Auden.
In this country the Christian Democrat
Union has destroyed Christianity and the
Social Democrat Party has destroyed
Socialism.
West German novelist Heinrich Boell.
We have stopped losing the war in
Vietnam.
Robert McNamara,
US Defence Secretary.


THIS AUSTRALIA
POLITICS
The Backbench Rebels
The Government backbenchers who are opposing legislation, pushing for amend-
ments and voting with the Opposition are a nuisance probably, an embarrassment
certainly, but a serious threat to the Menzies Ministry - that they certainly are not.
As last week’s rumblings showed they are as much a comment on the present state
of the Opposition as they are an irritation to the Ministry.
As Alan Reid sees it the clue to the
real significance of the so-called “revolt”
lies in studying the 1961 to 1963 period
when a single defection could have
resulted in the toppling of the Menzies
Government and there were no defectors.
From Canberra, Reid writes:
The Menzies Ministry took a bit of a
belting last week both in the Parliament
and party room and the belting came
from its own backbenchers. It came on
three issues: the Restrictive Trade
Practices legislation, repatriation, and the
referendum proposed to break the nexus
between the Senate and the House of
Representatives.
The Ministry brought much of the
trouble upon its own head. As is inevit-
ably the case when a long-entrenched
government faces a weak opposition pre-
occupied with its own internal troubles,
the Ministry has grown arrogant, careless,
complacent and not so much indifferent
but insensitive about the feelings of its
own backbenchers.
The restive backbenchers are usually
described as “rebels”. But that descrip-
tion, in my view, overstates their role.
Rebels want to overthrow something. But
the Government “rebels” are not seeking
to overthrow the Menzies Establishment
nor are they prepared to risk the over-
throw of the Government, with the one
possible exception of Senator lan Wood,
a Queenslander who once he says he will
vote against the Government has hitherto
carried out his threat irrespective of the
possible consequences. They will vote
against the Government when they know
that their votes are gestures and not
meaningful. But if Labor is liable to
support them on anything of a substantial
nature they retreat into conformity.
Basically, they seem to want to assert
themselves as individuals with rights,
rather than as destroyers with a fixed
purpose.
The period between 1961 and 1963,
when Menzies had a floor majority of
one in the House of Representatives, was
the real testing period. Menzies governed
more serenely then than he does now
with his present House of Representatives
majority of 22. The so-called “rebels”
were implacable loyalists.
The restive backbenchers divide into
two sections. There is a section in the
Senate and there is a scetion in the
House of Representatives. They are dis-
tinct groups, though on some issues (such
as the repatriation issue of last week)
their restiveness overlaps and they secure
recruits from those who normally con-
form. The Senate group is, from the
Government’s viewpoint, probably the
most dangerous. It is built around Senator
Wood and Senator Wright, a Dickensian
Tasmanian lawyer addicted to sonorous
"There's been a ghostly mistake! The RSL sponsored me up
here to entertain you fellows!"
phrasemaking and dramatic postured
Both Wood and Wright, representin
smaller States, are suspicious of big-Stat|
domination. Wood is less suspicious o|
NSW which he publicly acknowledge]
takes a broader view on national matters
than he is of Victoria’s parochialism
which he believes threatens the well-beini
of the smaller States, particularly his
native Queensland. Wright is a States,
righter who additionally appears to have
dedicated himself to the rather unreal
task of making the Senate —the States
House as he grandiosely terms it—aj
important in the Australian Parliameij
as the US Senate is in the US legislature
With the Senate divided 30-all (3J
Government supporters, 27 ALP senator
two DLP senators, one independent—Dl
Turnbull of Tasmania), the Governmer
cannot afford a single defection. Wit
Wright the Government has the advam
age that usually he talks like a lion bi
votes like a lamb.
Wood is a different proposition. He
opposes Government measures far mon|
sparingly than Wright. But when he op-
poses one he goes through with hij
opposition to the letter. And if he sayj
he will vote against the Government, hd
votes against it. These two undoubtedly
will be among those responsible if the
Government’s referendum seeking t<j
break the nexus between the Senate and
the House or Representatives (so tha
the Representatives can be enlarged with
out the Senate being similarly enlarged
is defeated. Their criticism of the “nexus’
referendum as an assault upon the right
of the smaller States persuaded severa
other Government senators into opposi
tion to the legislation authorising the
referendum. The legislation went through
the Senate last week only because til
ALP senators supported it.
The restive backbenchers in the Houst
of Representatives fall into a different
category. With the exception of NSW
Liberal Henry Turner, who appears to bf
striving to restore Parliament and the
House of Representatives as the majoi
power point in the legislative structure
and not merely a showcase for police
evolved either in the Cabinet or pad]
rooms, there is usually an ideologica
basis for the backbenchers’ restiveness
Queenslander Jim Killen, who led th
attack on the Government’s Restricts
Trade Practices legislation (which wa
Labor-supported), based his attack up®
the fact that the legislation in the forn
the Government proposed was repugnan
to the Liberals’ basic political philosophy
NSW Liberal William Wentwod
similarly operates from an ideology
base though addicted to more individua
forays which encompass such things a
trying to get deleted from the constitute
all reference to different treatment 0
Aborigines. t 1


Wentworth, to my mind, is more
realistic than Turner. Turner is nostal-
gically yearning for something that has
passed —the days when formal speeches
in the Chamber could determine the out-
come of parliamentary events. Went-
worth seems to have faced up to the
modern development that the points of
[pressure have passed to the Committee
land party rooms, and that it is in them
(that events and legislation can be
(shaped.
; It is not untypical that Wentworth
(used the Committee system to force upon
a reluctant Cabinet acceptance of his
'proposal for a standard-gauge railway
(link between Sydney and Melbourne and
[achieved his purpose while Turner has
'proved invariably unsuccessful in getting
the reforms he wanted. Even in last
week’s flurry (on a highly complex taxa-
tion measure) Turner was unsuccessful in
getting a select parliamentary committee
to deal with the measure. Yet
i Nigel Bowen, a Sydney barrister re-
presenting the constituency of Parramatta
land who has been in parliament about as
many months as Turner has been years,
secured a number of important revisions
by working through the committee sys-
tem.
ilFhe restiveness of the backbenchers
coalesced last week on the
[repatriation legislation. The quarrel
frith the Ministry was on a relatively
minor point whether repatriation
benefits for national servicemen would
start when they reached a combat
;zone or on departure from the last
Iport of call in Australia. The Ministry
(wanted it from the time of arrival in the
combat zone: the backbenchers wanted it
from the time of departure from the last
Australian port. Boiled down, the attitude
of many of them is “why should young-
sters who are to risk their lives for Aus-
tralia get less than I got twenty-odd years
ago?” It is a measure of the Ministry’s
insensitivity to backbench opinion that it
believed it could take on the backbench-
ers and win on a repatriation fringe-bene-
fit of this kind.
The Menzies Government will un-
doubtedly continue to take beltings in the
Senate. Wright’s attitudes flatter the
Government senators. They would like to
feel that they as senators are as important
as the Lower House which provides the
Prime Minister and the bulk of the Minis-
ters. But Wright leaves them torn two
ways. On the one hand they want to
back him. On the other hand they want
to maintain the Menzies Government in
power.
In the Lower House the dissentients
with their ideological basis like Killen or
their ideological-cum-administrative rest-
lessness like Wentworth, are more indi-
vidualistic—as likely to find themselves
on opposed sides as in co-operation.
Sir John’s Apologia
By J. C. HORSFALL
It was symptomatic both of the strengths and weaknesses of the Vernon Report
that Sir John Crawford, the Committee’s vice-chairman, should have tendered his
apologia of it to the National Press Club in Canberra last week. This was in
pointed contrast to the earlier attacks on the Report by the Prime Mfinister and
some professional critics.
Sir John wisely made no attempt to
match words with the Prime Minister or
to gainsay the latter’s prerogative of
assessing its value in terms of political
expediency. This is not to say that he
let the Government’s criticisms of the
report on economic policy grounds off
scot-free, or that on such key matters
as the Committee’s proposed advisory
economic council and tariff rationalisa-
tion he retreated one inch from the con-
sidered views in the Report. Crawford
seemed more concerned to illuminate
a path for the better public considera-
tion of the report when it is published
next year and to answer its professional
and Press critics on particular aspects.
Although he did not tacitly
admit it, one of its main weak-
nesses (at least in Government
eyes) is that it falls short of be-
ing the blueprint of the eco-
nomic future of Australia which
Sir Robert Menzies said he
wanted the Committee to draw
when he appointed it in the re-
cession climate of 1962. What
Sir John was at pains to explain was that
one could project on various assump-
tions what the future may look like in
1975 and what could be done now to
help develop the desired negative, but
this was not the same thing as making
a forecast of how the print would come
out. Indeed, like the Federal Treasurer
in recent submissions, what Crawford
seemed to be saying was that in the
field of economic prediction it was easier
to roam in the realms of short-term
possibility than long-term probability.
As Keynes once said, “In the long run
we are all dead.”
At any rate, once and for all, the
idea that any particular growth rate
was sacrosanct to the Committee was
knocked firmly on the head. This was
coupled with an acknowledgement of
the arguments that the future diversion
of resources more towards the less
statistically accessible tertiary industries
might possibly prejudice future arith-
metical measurement of overall growth.
Strangely enough, there was no admis-
sion, such as Professors Arndt and
Downing might have looked for, that
as well as directing more resources in
future into tertiary industries, resources
going to these industries would be much
more efficiently used.
The Committee appears to have been
SIR JAMES VERNON
very puzzled at imputations that their
proposals envisaged a big diversion of
resources towards manufacturing
industry. Crawford said this was a com-
plete misunderstanding.
To challengers of the Committee’s
estimates for exports, Crawford admitted
that since they were made the outlook
for minerals exports had brightened in
Western Australia and would add up
to £lOO million a year in likely minerals
exports by 1975. This would have
ameliorating effects on the balance of
payments as projected but prospective
remittances on overseas capital still
seem to have him in two minds (as they
did various participants at the recent
Institute of Management con-
ference in Canberra). At any
rate Sir John was not drawing
back from the significant recom-
mendation in the report to re-
strict net immigration to 100,000
and capital inflow to £l5O mil-
lion a year in the next few years.
Emphasising that a serious
potential is inherent in the
mounting costs of servicing overseas in-
vestment, he said it was no more than a
sensible precaution to watch the move-
ments of servicing overseas investment
liabilities in relation to growth in gross
nation product and export earnings. It
should not have been necessary for Craw-
ford to restate the views of the Commit-
tee on the need for an advisory economic
council nor to rebutf suggestions that this
would open the way for the substitution
of technocratic as opposed to democratic
government. But it will do no harm.
Crawford said, “I frankly think the
prospect of coercion is exaggerated and
have in mind the experience of the
Tariff Board, the Commonwealth Grants
Commission and the Australian Uni-
versities Commission in Australia, the
Council of Economic and Advisers in
the United States and National Econo-
mic and Development Council in the
United Kingdom, and the relatively new
Canadian experiment from which our
proposals were drawn. A sensible rela-
tion between public advisory authorities
and Government can be developed which
avoids any coercion beyond that implicit
in sound analysis and accepted by public
opinion, as represented by the Executive
in Parliament. This is the essence of
democracy.”


VIETNAM
Saigon Without Dreams
In bold acts of terrorism the Vietcong again took the war to Saigon at the week-
end when they shot their way into an American military billet and set off an explosion
which killed 11 people and wounded 167. Two other attempts by the Vietcong to
terrorise the capital failed; one when a mine was defused, another when a bomb-
throwing attack on another American billet was thwarted by military guards who shot
and killed the attacker.
In the first of his reports from South
Vietnam for The Bulletin, Geoffrey
Fairbairn describes the city of Saigon
and how it has changed—and remained
the same —since he was there three years
ago. He writes:
There is a Vietnamese saying: thg
man sentenced to death dreams the
greatest dreams. In which case Saigon
is no doomed city: apart from an in-
flation of money, American uniforms,
and foreign correspondents (of whom
there are now 332) the city seems little
different from 1962: apart from the Viet-
namese street names it seems little dif-
ferent from 1954, for that matter. A
Catholic orphanage cares for very young
victims of war’s insouciance; a rehabili-
tation training-centre for the incapaci-
tated; a military hospital for young
soldiers from faraway towns who have
been mutilated up-country. Saigon has
no great dreams; it is too busy prosaic-
ally calculating profits and comforts.
In Saigon there is good meat at the
market and strawberries flown down from
the highlands. Even the refugees have
found employment created by US con-
struction work in the city. The heart
of the city is urgent with new hotels
abuilding, spivs crying their wares, lonely
groups of soldiers and covens of molls
ready to assuage their loneliness, poised
like bowlegged dolls around innumerable
bars, their faces anonymously ravaged
by endless experiences of an utterly un-
meaningful kind the puppettes made
to dance by colonial Civilisation in
other places besides Saigon.
It is fashionable in the West to des-
cribe any anti-Communist city in Asia
as corrupt. But this all began long
before Communism significantly entered
the world’s stage. Nations must build
their own cities: the West left only
counting-houses for cities in Asia, places
where every commodity was trafficked
in except constructive ideas and solid
national hopes. Saigon is one of these
places; it is as simple as that. On the
other hand, its role as the chief leave
centre for a large foreign army exacer-
bates every worst tendency the clip
joint, the prostitution, the spivvery, the
brittle, bright pointlessness which con-
tains within it subtle humiliations for
the locals, even when they participate,
and which impenetrates the surface
urbanity of the educated Vietnamese
demeanor with a sad and resentful
feeling, discernible only to the most ob-
servant Westerner.
This feeling comes out in little re-
marks like “Vietnam has suffered too
much” made to Westerners after a few
drinks. Of course, such remarks are
followed up by a declaration which
today is honestly made to the effect
that the suffering can only be ended by
making it clear to the North Vietnamese
and the Vietcong which they control
that they simply cannot win in the face
of American technological might and so
must seek an end to the fighting. It is
important that educated Vietnamese in
Saigon now believe that the war cannot
be lost, since a collapse of will at the
symbolic centre of the nation would ob-
viously be, and indeed once nearly was,
catastrophic.
Moreover, there is no doubt what-
soever that when the US Commander,
General Westmoreland, says that mas-
sive American involvement has had a
“tonic” effect on the fighting morale of
the Vietnamese Army, he is speaking the
truth. Rather than sinking back to rest
their mauled units under the shadow of
the new American power, the Vietnamese
Army seems to fight better in the presence
of friendly rivals in military prowess;
and this is an army which has lost over
30,000 dead and nearly 100,000 wound-
ed in a long, dirty, and hitherto dis-
couraging war. This is relevant to
Saigon where Air ■ Marshal Ky has
ruthlessly cut through upper-class evasion
methods in regard to military conscrip-
tion. Indeed, in mid-1965 he was so ruth-
less in his determination to uproot pri-
vileged spivs that government depart-
ments began to suffer the loss of vital
officials. Today exemptions can only be
obtained for very urgent reasons.
This is not the approach of a corrupt
government; and it is an approach con-
ducive to a steady raising of army morale.
Nowadays “the people under arms” is
not a slogan spoken only by one side.
And yet, in a sense, Vietnam has suffer-
ed too much, even looking at the prob-
lem strictly militarily: a limit is being ap-
proached to the number of available
able-bodied men; a limit which, of
course, equally affects the Vietcong
whose increasing reliance upon con-
scription is doubtless partly responsible
for the desertion rate, running at a thou-
sand a month.
But such matters are not immediately
revealed to the visitor in Saigon; the
local beatniks, known as “Saigon cow-
boys”, still, many of them, evade the
sudden dragnets put down in the city;
the same young spivs as in 1962 peddled
sunglasses, beach hats, postcards, chip-
munks, birds in cages, and puppies (their
fathers were walking the beat, looking
exactly the same, in 1954). Their sons
appear to have taken up their fathers’
bootblacking equipment and pounce on
unwary feet with the same implacable
deftness. But this riff-raff is important
only to the eyes of inexperienced,
journalists trying to make a good, clear |
“progressive” point.
It is peripheral, as are the sleazy ladies
and the occasional beggar, to a city,
which is selfish like all cities, a little'
contemptuous of the rural realities,
economic as well as politico-military,
upon which its survival depends.
TRADE
A Puzzlement
The considerable increase of about
25s. per ton of wheat is very untimely
and highly unjustified; in fact, the official
calculation of the cost of wheat produc-
tion is based on very spurious assump-
tions.
The immediate effect of the new
wheat price will be a rise of about two
pence in the ordinary loaf of bread, and,
of course, there will be increases in the
prices of biscuits, cakes, pastries and in
all types of commodities containing
wheat flour. Some meat and eggs might
become dearer as the price of bran and
pollard—two important stockfeed items
— has already increased by 5s. a ton in
Victoria.
These price increases are especially
untimely in view of the efforts of the
Commonwealth Government to keep j
down “our creeping inflation”. Bread is
an important item in the calculation of
the cost of living, and higher flour prices j
will soon show up in the retail price
index. Despite the recent decision of
the Commonwealth Arbitration Com-
mission, changes in the retail price index I
are still taken very seriously in all I
negotiations for wages and salaries. Thus*
the new wheat price can easily set off a
chain reaction—just at a time when it is
so important for the Australian economy
to keep prices stable.
The astonishing thing about the
officially calculated price of 15s. 2d. for
the cost of producing a bushel of wheat
is that it is an extremely hypothetical
figure. Wheat in Australia is supposed
to be sold at cost of production without
a profit margin. If that were true, the
price of bread would not be raised by


aboLit two pence but would have to be
reduced by more than two pence.
Our wheat legislation guarantees wheat-
growers a return ec[ual to cost of pro-
duction for all wheat sold in Australia
and for 150 million bushels exported.
Currently, the calculation of cost of pro-
duction is based on a yield of 17 bushels
per acre the so-called yield divisor; a
profit margin is not allowed to be in-
eluded in this guaranteed price The
really puzzling matter is that for more
than ten years our wheatgrowers have
rpn „;„, , , *<• , ,
Drice wh' , re . urn e OM , >s guaran ee
their 'f C SU f*A Se ° 6 eC^Ua 0
cos o pro uc ion.
1 Nevertheless, wheat growing has been
so profitable that our wheat acreage has
increased from about ten million to about
18 million acres. The truth is that the
yield divisor has always been several
bushels below the actual yield per acre,
and so the calculation of the cost of
production automatically includes a con-
siderable profit margin. Our high local
wheat price partly compensates for the
l° w ex P ort price. In other words, dearer
bread in Australia pays for cheaper bread
made from Australian flour in China and
Russia—currently our two main wheat
emtomers. In addition, the Australian
taxpayer has subs,dtsed wheat export m
recent years by over £32m.; the subsidy
for eX port G f 150 million bushels
from the current crop will amount to
another £lom.—other people have cal-
culated up to £l4m.—all dependent upon
the world market price for wheat in
1966.
The reason for the double support of
our wheat industry is really mysterious
because Australian wheatgrowers are so
efficient that our real cost of production
is perhaps the lowest among the main
wheat-producing countries. Even the
current world wheat price is far above
the real cost of production in Australia,
Why keep on subsidising an efficient in-
dustry? Our 50,000 wheatgrowers are
prosperous members of the affluent Aus-
tralian community,
I would suggest that “orderly overseas
marketing of our wheat should be con-
tinued through the efficient Wheat Board;
however, all other sections of our current
wheat legislation should be abolished,
the sooner the better for the Australian
economy as a whole.
E. J. DONATH
Tanner
"And I say the Vietcong is basically not a militaristic force-it's mostly civilians they blow up."


mm
list
i
m
■Zxsm*
jv?s;
&?■ r- :
Isl -
mmmwmmwmmMmmmm
BIG LOADERS HOUGH GOERS!
m ~ ®
?^p3a»»s
i ,*3SBS^
«w*g*!*BßSißjS
.
TOYOTA DYNA 2 TON (top)-TOYOTA 25 1 TON (above)
TWO tough ones. One-ton Toyota 25,
two-ton Toyota Dyna have more practical
reasons why you should buy than any
other light truck on the market today.
Load space for one: More usable carrying
space than trucks anywhere near their
size or price. Toughness, too: Toyota’s
own kind of rugged construction that’s
built to take the year 'round pounding of
hard truck work. Reliability: No fancy
ideas—just sound, proven truck design
to do the job you want and to be rarely
off the road. Plenty of power: Toyota 25
—55 b.h.p. and Toyota Dyna—Bs b.h.p.,
both have enough power to do the job
with ample reserve, but give the kind
of money-saving economy that means
the difference between profit and loss.
And no wasted power either. If you're
truck buying, give both these Toyotas the
once over at your local Toyota dealer, it’s
money in your pocket all the way.
TOYOTA DYNA is especially suitable for mount-
ing special bodies. Standard model has a long,
wide cargo deck with a loading area of 65
square feet. Vacuum booster brakes for safe,
powerful stopping power with light pedal
pressure, even under full load.
TOYOTA 25. This remarkable forward-control
1-ton truck, with its large body and low
loading, meets every transport need in its
field. Steel or wooden tray body. Economically
priced and cheap to operate. 54 square feet
of long, wide cargo deck.
uO TOYBIA and get your money's worth!
D25.8.FP


SINGAPORE
Trading with Rhio
If Singapore’s Prime Minister, Mr Lee Kuan Yew, goes ahead with his plans to
establish barter trade with Indonesian merchants operating from the Rhio Islands,
it will mean a careful piece of diplomatic balancing for Australia. Together with the
British, New Zealand and the Malaysian navies, Australian vessels have been on
anti-infiltration duty in the same waters where Mr Lee proposes to resume trading.
The problem facing Australia is of a
similar nature, but not on so large a
scale, as that facing Britain. Gavin
Young points out the difficulties in his
report from Singapore:
The Rhio Islands have been the jump-
ing-off place for a number of Indonesian
attempts to infiltrate saboteurs and ex-
plosives into Singapore and Malaysia
since “confrontation” began two years
ago, and despite the political upheavals in
Indonesia since October 1 there are
no signs that Djakarta has abandoned its
militancy towards Singapore and Malay-
sia. The prospect of Indonesian trading
ships shuttling back and forth across the
straits therefore poses a security problem
of some magnitude. It is not confined to
and Malaysia. The defence
of Malaysia and Singapore rests on a
tripartite arrangement between these two
independent states and the British Gov-
ernment. And it is the British who pro-
vide the majority of the armed men and
naval vessels in the defence network.
If Mr Lee’s intention to start the trade
is carried through and the Malaysian
government of Tunku Abdul Rahman
in Kuala Lumpur not only continues to
disapprove but even tries to prevent
it by blocking Indonesian vessels with
iships of the Royal Malaysian Navy, the
British, too, are likely to find themselves
in an awkward predicament between two
angry allies.
Anxious British officials here fear that
things are moving in that direction. The
crisis, if it comes, is not expected to be
long delayed. Lee Kuan Yew has said
he will start the barter ball rolling at the
beginning of December. To Singapore
leaders there is no option but to press
on with the barter idea. As it has turn-
ed out, Singapore’s expulsion from the
Malaysian Federation has not led to a
rapprochement between the thrusting
Singapore Chinese and the more staid
Malay leaders in Kuala Lumpur. In fact,
something approaching economic war has
developed with each side angrily slapping
tariffs on each other’s imports. The idea
of a common market is ruled out for the
foreseeable future.
In desperation, Singapore has had to
turn elsewhere for economic survival.
Thoughts of a significant trade with
China have been abandoned for security
or commercial reasons —■ Singapore has
no desire to see Chinese products off-
loaded on the island at the expense of
Singapore’s foreign exchange. Another
possible and traditional trading partner,
Indonesia is still wedded to aggressive
confrontation.
Singapore has therefore set her sights
on two alternatives. The first is the
establishment of special trade arrange-
ments with four countries: Australia,
New Zealand, Britain and the United
States, which Mr Lee hopes, perhaps
over-optimistically, will come to accept
Singapore goods tariff-free. The second
is the barter trade with Indonesia, on a
private, almost under-the-counter, basis
which Djakarta says it will not tolerate.
Singapore merchants will exchange rice,
medicines and other goods for Indone-
sian rubber, pepper and dried prawns to
the tune, Mr Lee hopes, of about £5O
million a year. It is not a massive trade,
but it will satisfy many smaller Singapore
merchants who have been fretting since
Malaysian naval craft interrupted the
commerce in August last year, by inter-
cepting and turning back the Indonesian
traders in Singapore waters.
Mr Lee is aware of the security risks,
but believes they can be overcome. For
weeks British, Singapore and Malaysian
military experts have been discussing
ways of making the trade proof against
Indonesian saboteurs. This involves set-
ting apart Pulau Senang Island as the
market-place to which Indonesian mer-
chants will come from the Rhios up a
narrow, controlled sea corridor. Ships
outside the corridor will be turned back,
presumably by Singapore marine police.
Whether or not Malaysian navy ships
will assist in the operation must depend
on Kuala Lumpur’s agreement to the
idea of the barter trade.
At the moment, the Tunku is against
it. He sees the operation as “trading
with the enemy”. His Cabinet has said
“it is preposterous of Mr Lee” to want
to do so “for profit motives”. I under-
stand that the British have reached the
cautious conclusion that, although the
real problems of controlling the barter
trade will emerge only during a “trial
period”, there is a good chance that
saboteurs can be held in check. It will
take time, they admit, to search every
bale of rubber for such small things as
detonators or fuses. But even if security
objections are demolished, there remains
the overriding hostility of Kuala Lumpur
to Singapore’s independent attitude. That
may be the real basis of the Tunku’s
opposition.
Nevertheless, Mr Lee has made it
plain that he intends to go ahead. “If the
SWAINSVILLE
dUT YOU MB UWNO m NATURAL
UFe. EVEH THE WAY YOU bREES:
QRASS-GREEN TPOUSERS, EARTHY-
&KOWN SH/KT. t>APfdt>/l*-COLOO/Z££>
T/e...
fiMuw, &ook. you're JUST
uxe rreuonet's re as amts.
/ t/OA/»£K /e THEY &£<
tkamqo/luzeks.


ASAHI
PENTAX
SPOTMATIC
SPOTA'N ATIC // PENT AX
m
-
Entirely New Concept
in Photographic Design
and Capability
The new Asahi Pentax Spotmatic has
a highly sensitive, completely integral
and invisible meter which reads your
exposure through the taking lens, from
your subject’s image in focus on the
viewing screen (in focus on the film
plane) . .. the most ideal method of
exposure determination! Use any one
of the 23 Takumar lenses (from 18mm
to 1000mm'), plus accessories ... the
meter reads exactly what your lens
sees ... the lens sees what your film
records ... without parallax! No more
exposure adjustments ... it automati-
cally compensates for exposure factors
for correct exposures every time.
Price, with case, £lO5/0/0.
Other Asahi Pentax models available:
Asahi Pentax SV with fully-automatic f/1.8
Super-Takumar lens; speeds to 1/1000-sec.;
self-timer. With case, £75/0/0.
Asahi Pentax Sla with fully-automatic f/2 Super
Takumar lens; speeds to 1 /500-sec. With
case, £62/10/0.
At your photo dealer now!
KD .2217
Malaysians don’t like it, that’s too bad.
We have to h.-e." British tears are that
this will reopen a new spell of angry
Malay-Singapore bickering that could
well lead to Mr Lee taking drastic action
out of exasperation with Kuala Lumpur.
If he is balked he will certainly produce
in the most dramatic way possible evi-
dence that Malaysia has been permitting
a barter trade with Indonesia through
Sabah, and probably by way of Port
Swettenham as well.
CHURCHES I
Christmas Tale
The resignation from the Anglican Church of Canon John Best is prodding the
consciences of West Australian churchgoers in this Christmas season. Canon Best,
for 12 years rector of the wealthy and fashionable St Margaret’s parish in Nedlalids,
gave pressure of work and its effect on his nervous health as his reasons for resigning,
But this move has followed the physical
breakdown of a remarkable number of
Perth clergymen, and the symptoms are
jolting congregations into looking at a
sickness that has been recorded in the US
and is also, no doubt, Australia-wide. The
problem is far more widespread than it
appears, according to Congregationalist
the Rev. Edwin White, laid up several
weeks ago following a heart attack. “It's
a bit like divorce; for every one divorce
there are five unhappy marriages. And
for every minister who breaks, there are
five who spend their lives aware of frus-
tration and resentment. I’ve taken one
course, and cracked up, while John Best
has simply taken another and is getting
out.”
Edwin White, nationally known as an
ABC speaker on many topics, says that
the problem goes beyond over-work and
poor pay. The minister is torn between
wanting to fulfil his congregation’s image
of him and doing what he knows his
body will take. This image “in the good
old days” was fairly clear-cut. The work
entailed midweek and Sunday services,
and visits “where the family expected
him, knew how he was going to behave,
and knew how they should behave to
him. Nowadays, nobody knows what the
minister is . . . including the minister
himself.”
Apart from being preacher and pastor,
as he has always been, he was being
forced to be an organisation man and
public figure, says Mr White, “many
times not doing what he wants to do. I’ve
known theological students who have
dreaded this afternoon-tea part of their
ministry”. He sees the minister of today
as an anachronism not because of him-
self but because of the way many within
his church consider he should behave as
he did in the 19th century.
The Anglican Dean of Perth, the Very
Rev. James Payne, sees the problem as
one of an unfairly balanced load not only
because of the congregation being unwil-
ling to take responsibility but often of the
minister refusing to delegate where he
should. “Our leaders don’t set a good
example,” he says. “Often they work far
too hard and take on far too much.” But
the Dean believes that the long-term
solution of laymen taking on more re-
sponsibility will make for a healthier
church.
This is too slow a process for the Rev.
John Hudson, of the WA Council of
Churches, who claims the minister must
accept all his responsibilities “even if he
is over-worked, under-paid, and has too
many heart attacks”. His answer is for
the denominations to get together as
they have in his district of Fremantle
where Anglicans, Congregationalists,
Methodists, and Presbyterians on Novenv
ber 28 came up with a congregation of
250.
Meanwhile Canon Best, father of six
children, four of whom are still to be
educated, will be looking for a new job
before his resignation takes effect in
February. He is 49 and has been in the
church since he was 19. He cited his 70
and more hours a week as the main
reason for getting out. “The whole pres-i
sure of life is hotting up, and the clergy-!
man is expected to keep up with all
aspects of it. He can’t.”
DON LIPSCOMBE
CHURCHES II
Orthodoxy
Archbishop Ezekiel, the Greek Ortho-
dox Archbishop of Australia and New
Zealand, has written to “The Bulletin"
about a report in the October 23 issue
on the “split” in the Greek Orthodox
Church. The letter says:
I refer to the article in your publication
of the 23rd October headed “Breaking!
from Constantinople” and particularly !o]
the portion of the fifth paragraph thereof!
which reads as follows:
“Archbishop Ezekiel’s reply to the)
community’s decision was scathing. He:
claimed it resulted from Cypriot Com-
munists and criminals infiltrating thej
community's 20 - member governing,
council.”
There appears to have been some mis-
understanding between myself and the
reporter who interviewed me.
It is true that I stated that the member-t
ship of the Greek Orthodox community!
of New South Wales had been infiltrated*
by Communists and a few criminals. B
is also true that I said that Communists
had infiltrated the community’s 20-mem-
ber governing council, and I also saw
that an inordinate number of the mem !
bers of the community were Cypr> ots l
It is not correct, however, that I used'
the phrase “Cypriot Communists andj
criminals infiltrating the Community B
20-member council”.


Whitlam-The Man
Without a Faction
“Nearly all the good ideas are mine "
By BRIAN JOHNS
r«TTHEN did it not seem that Gough
mV' Whitlam’s time was now ? At
each recurring crisis in the Fed-
jeral Parliamentary Labor Party, the
Iportents have gone out that at last the
jDeputy is to have his prize,—the leader-
ship of the Federal Opposition. What
[makes these portents sc unerringly
[wrong?
The Labor Party’s latest bout of soul-
isearching- invoked by the welcome New
With Wales frontbencher Mr Allan
raser gave to the Federal Govern-
ment's radical decision to pay £1,500,000
o capital aid to independent schools
-has again thrust Gough Whitlam into
public calculation as the leader ready to
ixorcise the dilemmas of the Labor Party.
But within the Party itself no new text
jas been read, no resolutions made, and
50 call to office sounded.
The crux of the Whitlam dilemma is
pat he is a politician who has supporters,
(but no followers. He does not have a
prd-core group behind him prepared to
f'hby, to barge, and to bulldoze the
passage clear for him to leadership.
Ifhitlam himself has made it this way.
in the end, the fundamental weak-
ps in his present position could be his
greatest strength. This proud man is
playing the game of leadership at the
peak level. He wants to reach his ambi-
tion owing no debts, committed to no
faction. He wants to be drafted to
office. He expects a majority of the
Labor Caucus, almost of its own voli-
tion, to opt for him not because they
like him but because he —and only he—
can give them leadership. The Aus-
tralian Labor Party should have its own
“le grand Charles”.
In a real way this is the only role open
to Whitlam. Since entering Parliament
in 1952 as the Member for Werriwa,
Whitlam has won admirers —almost with-
out exception grudging—but he is prob-
ably in the extraordinary position of not
having one warmly committed friend
among his Parliamentary colleagues. He
has closed people off from him by his
frank preference for only professional
friendships, yet at the same time he has
been unable to disguise an almost puritan
distaste for the sham in the morals of
the fiercely competitive political world.
His vanity makes the idea of co-operating
with a group of varying standards and
motives repugnant to him. (Mr Calwell
may spend a weekend —as he did before
the last Caucus skirmish on Aid—on the
telephone wheedling, drumming up sup-
port, but not Whitlam.) He has com-
mitted the cardinal political sin of leav-
ing his own ambition totally undisguised.
For his penance, circumstances have
cast Whitlam’s political fortunes with
the group with whom he has least
temperamental affinity, the wheeling-
and-dealing Right, from where the flash-
point for leadership is most likely to
come. The men on the Right are warm,
with a self-protective contempt for any-
one who would stay out in the cold,
aloof from the trading in personalities
and past and future favors, which are
the vital weapons in the lobby battles
for power. The men on the Right
usually reserve their regard—usually but
not always, because in the exceptional
case the Right can be won by a man of
disinterested integrity—for the man who
gets the numbers.
In recent weeks Whitlam might well
have been wishing for it all to have
been different. If there had been a
hard-core following for the Deputy,
Whitlam’s passage to leadership finally
would have been cleared for him. The
Labor Party had reached desperation
point. There had been the Gallup poll
which showed the Labor Party’s share
of the national vote had fallen to the
all-time low of 41 per cent. But most
of all there had been the Federal Gov-
ernment's decision on Aid, reopening the
Party’s deepest wound. Even Caucus
members who always ruled out a chance
of the Party breaking tradition by sum-
marily dismissing its Leader were report-
ing that so strong was the feeling against
Mr Calwell that the impossible could
happen.
Indeed, there had been talk among a
number, who included Left and Right,
that it was time to get 20 or 30 together
who would go to Calwell and tell him
that it was time to stand down. Most
surprisingly, two Caucus members let it
be known that they were prepared to
move for all leadership positions to be
declared vacant —and one of those mov-
ers was a member of the Left. But in
the whole situation there was one essen-
tial weakness: a conviction among the
unhappy, restive Caucus members that
Whitlam should be the Party Leader.
True, there was no one else in sight
now, but there might be. Was Whitlam
the man, anyway? At 49 he was still,
for the political world, comparatively
young. He would be with them a long
time. What had he done to earn the
leadership?
This , last question has always been
Whitlam’s most bitter cross. Of course,
over recent months in particular, the
Deputy has been brave and uncomprom-
ising in the leadership he has given,
not only on Aid but on Unity Tickets.
Before and during the ALP Conference
he made it clear that the Labor Party


should put its house in order on these
above-all issues.
These things and more Labor men will
admit, but they cannot bring themselves
to warm to the idea of Whitlam as lead-
er. When he is at his best, as he was
during the ALP Lederal Conference in
Sydney, they will say that he should be
doing more. The two most frequent
criticisms of Whitlam are that “you never
know where he stands” and “he won't
have a go”. By the time the pre-confer-
ence executive meetings came round in
August he had made it so clear in public
statements where he stood on the Unity
Ticket issue that the Victorians had to
back down on their audacious scheme to
legalise Unity Tickets. He carried the
fight so hard on the issue that, unchar-
acteristically, he dramatised the situation
by walking out of the executive. The
drama w'as uncharacteristic because it was
premeditated, unlike his raw displays in
Parliament when he has called one
Minister “a bumptious bastard”, another
“a quean” and poured a glass of water
on a third. Yet after the ALP Confer-
ence even his supporters were more than
willing to indulge in criticism of his
executive walkouts. This is more than
ungenerous. The willingness, even eager-
ness, among Whitlam supporters to
criticise the Deputy Leader has its roots
in their response to the style of the
man.
Top dog
\l7 - hitlam never quite manages to dis-
" guise the fact that he is most inter-
ested in people for what they can do to
help him. He can be charming and easy
in his cultivation, flattering with indiscre-
tions about “Arthur” and other Labor
members. But his warmth is measured, his
engagement calculated, his hyperboles of
vanity (“Nearly all the good ideas in our
policies are mine”) never really deprecat-
ing. An actor with his eyes cast not for
the absorption of an audience but on
the box office. Worryingly, in those
rare moments when the Whitlam guard
goes down, as in his outbursts in the
House, he is cruel with disregard. He
will acknowledge these public mistakes,
but in a way which suggests they just
happened. He is self-aware, not intro-
spective.
Whitlam sees himself as top-dog but
he is not jealous of campetition. He has
a tough respect for, to use one of his
favorite phrases, “a man of qualities”.
His dislike of factioning, his irreverence,
his lack of pomposity, and his zest for
testing ideas would seem to ensure that,
once in the top position, he would be
able to lead politicians. Already he has
shown that he can win the respect and
support of men as different in outlook
and ability as the old-style intuitive poli-
tician, New South Wales ALP president
Charlie Oliver, and the able forward-look-
ing Lederal ALP secretary Cyril Wynd-
ham. He has proved attractive to Labor’s
"Young lurks", like John Menadue, his
private secretary for last five years and
now the promising ALP candidate for
Hume, or the controversial advocate of
northern development, Dr Rex Patterson,
contesting the Queensland seat of Daw-
son.
A ltogether, Whitlam has been the
most significant Deputy Leader in the
history of the Australian Labor Party.
None has so overshadowed his leader in
ability or vision. He was indefatigable
in, and in some, indispensable to the 15
or so policy committees which cleared
the way for the re-writing of 60 per cent
of the ALP platform at the August Led-
eral Conference in Sydney. Self-centered,
yes, but a man with a strong sense of the
necessity for policies. As leader, he could
well generate in the Party, in the country,
the excitement of a Kennedy.
Lor all his self-confidence, urbanity
and air of inevitable success, there some-
times seems a shy man, self-consciously,
daringly climbing into the Emperor's
clothes. Ideas are his accessories. He
uses them. Whidam may not be original
but he has an uncommon regard for the
importance of seizing on the best ideas
that are available. He plays the entre-
preneur well —once taken he works hard
to assimilate the ideas unto himself. His
eclecticism irritates his less able Labor
colleagues It is often said of . Whitlam
that he plays the field too widely, yet
over the years he must have asked hun-
dreds of painstakingly researched and
prepared questions. Where others will
be satisfied with Parliamentary solilo-
quies on the Executive’s assumptions of
power at the expense of the backbencher,
Whitlam will pick away almost daily,
forcing the Ministry to yield informa-
tion on central policy issues.
He has never lost his barrister’s habit
of working. In fact, this may be the
best reason for Whitlam’s failure to
develop the charisma of leadership, or
hard-core support. The barrister’s role
is highly individualistic. He gains little
opportunity to work as a member of a
team. He moves from brief to brief,
one interest group to another, without
forming lasting commitments. He
examines an issue to the depth necessary
for an advocate and then casts it off.
Many of Whitlam’s causes and his man-
ner of handling them at times do look
like briefs.
It is some measure of the tone of
political life that this fact can be used
against him. Whitlam’s apparently quick
ability—those speeches are painstakingly
prepared in elaborate note-form —over a
range of subjects arouses more suspicion
than it does admiration among his col-
leagues. Yet some of those same col-
leagues are indebted to him for help and
background guidance, for encouragement
that they themselves should specialise in l
something that has seized his own inter-j
est. The debts would be acknowledged l
if only Whitlam could give of himself
as well as ideas. Suddenly, in the midsti
of explaining an issue vibrantly, smooth-1
ly, articulate, he will break into sarcastic
banter, maybe at someone not too far
away from his listener’s present line of
thinking. As one of his most influential
supporters put it: “Even when you are
alone with him relaxing he’ll try to show
he is better than you or anyone else—
and will take an opening to score off you
to prove it to yourself.”
Contemporary
is at his best in a weekend-
conference atmosphere—immediate-
ly impressive This is probably one reason
why he attends them with alacrity, travel-
ling from one end of the country to
another, and leaving himself precious
little home life to do so. He is a tire-
less, energetic worker, driving his staff
hard, and there is no doubt that he finds
it extremely galling that he is unable to
see his ideas into action. In this respect
the conferences must be safety valves.
They must also be a welcome relief from
the acrid, frustrated atmosphere of the
Labor lobby.
Almost invariably the Deputy’s
schemes will be the expression of the
ideas of experts, usually academic, in the
various fields, with whom he keeps in fre-
quent contact. The conferences have
another practical purpose. They keep his
name before the public eye. Whitlam is
working to the basic calculation, which
in a party other than the faction-ridden
ALP of today would surely be self-evi-
dently shrewd, that his greatest strength
lies in his acceptance by the electorate. He
brings to the Labor Party with his empiri- 1
cal approach a contemporary look. When (
he talks of public ownership of the water-1
front industry, a national shipping line,
a Commonwealth science policy, a
national health scheme, he talks in the
language of business—profit and loss,
efficiency, effectiveness.
Even as Deputy Leader, Whitlam has
gone a long way in winning acceptance
in the electorate. These days leaders
are more important than parties—pro-
vided they are united—when people are
heavily suspicious of a political clutch-
all of programmes. Given that the party
poses no intrinsic threat to affluence—
the reason that defence and foreign
affairs are the issues—the political leader
is being tested increasingly only to the
intuitive depth yielded by a TV screen.
Is the party leader capable, sincere,
honest? The TV studio props of a ■:
desk and a fake wall of books go a
frightening way to closing out the serried
ranks behind a political leader. Whitte®
is one of the two or three Labor mem- ,


'BjcuumadL
perfection
m
Give Your Slides "Paximat Per-
fection” Treatment. For extra col-
our brilliance, superior optical
systems ... coolness and ease of
operation . . . magazine load . , .
reliability and largest range of
lenses to suit you. See your slides
large as life, twice as colourful.
Regular or quartz iodine projec-
tion lamps. Discriminating people
choose Paximat world’s largest
selling projector.
Paximat Triumph 4 models
Give ample illumination for nor-
mal home use, cool running, pop
free, jam proof operation.
• 300 W model - £36.0.0 ($72)
• 12V/100W Cold light £42 ($B4)
• 24/150W (same light as from
the DeLuxe N 24) £47.0.0 ($94)
• or popularly priced Pico 12V/
50W cold light
Paximat DeLuxe N 24
World's most up to date model . . .
fully automatic . . . variable self timing
device . . . remote control focus . . .
forward and reverse slide change. “Cold
light” 24V, 150 W lamps yield light
output of I,OOOW . , . interchangeable
lens . . . synchronised for tape re-
corder commentary.
• Paximat DeLuxe N 24, £79.10.0 ($159)
• Paximat super N 24, same as DeLuxe,
but without self-timer £72.10.0
($145)
Paximat Electromatic 300 W
The classic automatic model 300 W light
output gives 500 W brilliance. Remote
control focusing and forward and re-
verse slide change . . . interchangeable
2.8 lens attachable to tape recorder.
Only £54.4.0 ($108.40c).
SEE THEM AT ALL LEADING
FREE brochures from: PHOTIMPORT PTY. LTD.
153 Barkly Street, EAST BRUNSWICK, Victoria. 38 6922
bers who have so far shown that they
can use TV (perhaps the reason why
Mr Calwell has sought and obtained a
curious agreement with the ABC that he
has to agree if a Labor member is to
appear in a programme).
Vanity
TlThitlam intensely dislikes being tag-
" ged a Right-winger. (This was behind
his widely misunderstood statement on a
TV programme last year that he had
more in common with Dr Cairns than
with Mr Calwell.) There are a number of
factors in his dislike for the tag of the
Right. One is vanity as, in the general
view, the Left is undoubtedly far more
intellectually respectable than the Right.
For another thing the description is just
plain wrong. On many issues, national-
isation, say, Whitlam is far more realisti-
cally radical than the Left. But in the
final analysis, Whitlam’s basic objection
to being tagged goes back to his plan of
becoming Labor Leader tied to no fac-
tion.
There are the factors of his person-
ality in this Whitlam scheme of things,
but although a great many do not care
to acknowledge it yet there are also
political realities justifying the bold and
dangerous path to power he has chosen
for himself. The Right is only less dis-
credited in the electorate generally than
is the Left. Sure, the Right, if only it
could bring itself to resolution, has a
more politically acceptable approach than
the Left, and if the 1955 split had never
happened, it might have been able to
blunder on, stumblingly filling the social
vacuum within which it was working.
But this is extremely doubtful. The
electorate has no sympathy with a trade-
union, narcissistic Party which the
Right has shown no marked enthusiasm
to make outw'ard-looking. The fact is
that Whitlam is a new-breed Labor man,
whose natural milieu is the middle-class,
and he is not ashamed of it because he
is convinced that these are the decades
of the middle-class. Part of the Whit-
lam leadership gamble is whether the
Caucus members can bring themselves
to step into these decades. Only then
will they be at the real point of choice.
The relief in the Party which follows
in the wake of each crisis not confronted
means that the time even for choice has
not yet been reached.
Whitlam is always quick to point out
that he has never had a patron in the
Party. He has had to make his own
Way. Certainly, his background breach-
ed the Labor Party’s ethos of inverted
snobbery at most every point. The son
of a Commonwealth Crown Solicitor, he
Was educated mainly at private schools
before going to St. Paul’s College at
Sydney University for his degrees in Arts
and Law. He was a commissioned
officer in the RAAF during the war. He
was a barrister married to a Judge’s
daughter when he attempted to enter
politics, first in local government, then
in the New South Wales State Parlia-
ment.
Whitlam is remembered by university
contemporaries as a bright, witty and
quick young man, but it was Margaret
Dovey, now his wife, and then a cham-
pion swimmer, who fitted more easily in-
to undergraduate social life. Whitlam had
slightly better than average academic
ability, with a flair for Greek and Latin,
taking honors in the latter. He was mod-
erately successful in his six years at the
Bar. He has carefully kept his links with
the law, maintaining his chambers in
Phillip Street. In 1962 he took Silk.
One question irritates him, and he has
the answer pat, “What other party was
there for me to join”. A centralist, Whit-
lam says that his first strong political im-
pulse was at the 1937 Commonwealth
referendum on marketing and civil avi-
ation. He was 20 and unable to vote. It is
again a referendum on Commonwealth
rights—this time in 1944—which he sets
another demarcation point in his political


m
;
m
■
perfect
export
vision
No extra cost by air!
Australian manufacturer cites value of airfreight
with big consignments of eyewear to Japan....
Martin Wells Pty. Limited, manufacturers of fashion
eyewear, have established profitable export markets in
Japan and several other major world markets in the
face of strong competition from leading European
manufacturers. Let’s look at some of the reasons that
enable the regular servicing of these markets at no
extra cost by air.
■ Unrivalled speed and frequency of delivery have
established supply lines that mean regular orders and
instant stock replenishment.
■ Lightweight packaging (even of these fragile items)
means substantial savings in material and labour.
■ Lower insurance rates —much lower because of
round-the-clock Qantas security and the benefits that
accrue from Qantas care of handling.
■ Qantas handling care guards against damage, pil-
ferage and loss. Breakage is virtually unheard of
because goods are handled less frequently and air
gives a smoother, gentler ride.
■ As a regular exporter of recurring consignments
Martin Wells qualifies for special low freight rates.
(Savings over a wide selection of product categories
range from 30% to 70% with Qantas Air Cargo.)
■ Urgent orders go without costly delays! Qantas
Air Cargo deliveries mean goods arrive there fast and
first, maintaining that vital edge on overseas com-
petitive suppliers.
So you see, one good saving leads to another —adding
up to fast, efficient distribution, quicker returns, lifted
profits. Eye opening? Definitely.
Daily flights to the export markets of the world
Qantas, with its associates, offers you over 125 flights a week from and to Australia.
45 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
Wo
QANTAS AIK (AH GO
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, with AIR INDIA. AIR NEW ZEALAND, 8.0.A.C. and S.A.A .
A 57.107.125


SUCCESSFUL
CONVENTIONS
TAKE PLACE AT...
The hotel conveniently situated close
to the commercial heart of the Aus-
tralian capital.
The hotel with the experience, the staff
and special facilities conventions re-
quire.
The hotel with truly comfortable ac-
commodation.
Your convention runs really smoothly at The
Hotel Canberra. Your particular requirements
are closely attended to by experienced staff
and you use special rooms giving you the
comfort and privacy you require. Projection
facilities are available and of course you
receive the same renowned Hotel Canberra
service as other guests. Accommodation is
tasteful and comfortable. Every room has
bath or shower and toilet facilities. Round-
the-clock room service, naturally. Single
rooms from £3/17/6 a dav.
THE
HOTEL CANBERRA
Commonwealth Avenue, A.C.T.
Telephone: 7-2251.
The hotel that caters specially for conventions.
HC-24
I
fFI
hi
m
growth. You will not get any passionate
political credo from Whitlam.
He won his selection for the Federal
seat of Werriwa from eight other candi-
dates in anything but an armchair ride.
He went on to the Parliamentary Execu-
tive —the Opposition’s “Ministry”—also,
he claims, without the aid of a political
godfather, in 1958. But he had by this
time become closely identified with the
anti-Grouper faction. In 1954 he had
led one sortie against the “Groupers”.
After the first —unsuccessful —moves
against Evatt in Caucus for his handling
of the Petrov Affair, Whitlam moved for
a spill of all positions other than the
Party Leader’s.
The Whitlam move for a spill was
defeated by a handful of votes. But
Labor men have long memories. They
relish their grudges and even today in-
fluential members of the Right have never
forgiven Whitlam for his thrust against
them. Whitlam’s boast that he has
never had a political patron has one
major flaw. His election as Deputy
Leader of the Opposition, over the head
of old-time Labor man Eddie Ward, was
largely the work of a former master of
the numbers game. Senator Pat Kennedy
who masterminded the operation, making
Whitlam Deputy by a margin of four
votes. Typically, though, Whitlam re-
mained aloof from the lobby battle,
doing no more than sending a brief note
to each Caucus member announcing that
he intended to offer himself as a candi-
date.
Whitlam’s parcel of 38 votes came
from the centre and Left, but the near-
bloc vote from Victoria was the decisive
element. For the Left Whitlam was mere-
ly a “stop-Ward candidate”, so the out-
come left Whitlam with no fixed group of
supporters. He had his position, but no
power base of his own: his blunders in
the first 12 months or so did nothing to
help him achieve one. He did achieve a
reputation for unpredictability, rashness,
and political naivete, particularly by his
letter to the Prime Minister complaining
of Dr Evatt's former secretary, Mr Alan
Dalziel's, use of the Commonwealth
Parliamentary offices in Sydney. Whit-
lam believed that Dalziel and Mr Les
Haylen, then the Member for Parkes,
were behind the merciless lampooning he
was receiving in the weekly, “Century”.
The stupidity of Whitlam’s action was
a measure of the raw state he was re-
duced to by the heavy sniping against
him. Those early months as Deputy
Leader can only have confirmed him on
his course as a loner. As he would see
it, he was a victim of shabby politicking,
whose way above it all was through sheer
ability.
After the knocks, the 1961 campaign
must have been a tremendous boost to
Whitlam. The electorate is his surest
ground. He concentrated his efforts on
Queensland, where the State ALP presi-
dent, now Senator Jim Keefe, had
established a first-class campaign
machine. There was a groundswell
against the Government in Queensland,
but those Labor men in the State acknow-
ledged that Whitlam had campaigned
extremely impressively—although the
acknowledgments were not made within
Calwell's range.
The Calwell-Whitlam breach opened
after the 1963 elections. Until then,
Whitlam contained himself to a surpris-
ing degree, even wilfully casting himself
in Calwell’s shadow by, for one thing,
leaving public comment on policy issues
to his Leader. But the restraints broke
after the disastrous 1963 result. At first,
Whitlam hopefully thought Calwell might
be persuaded to stand down voluntarily
after a respectable lapse of time. Whit-
lam’s critics now say this was a major
error of judgment. They claim that, had
he given leadership immediately after the
election, the time was right for a success-
ful spill.
Naturally, Whitlam disagrees and has
claimed consistently at each successive
crisis that the chances of a successful
spill have been grossly exaggerated. It
is not for nothing that there has never
been a successful spill in the history of
the Labor Party, he will say. Undoubt-
edly, Calwell has made powerful use of
the Party’s deep respect for the leader’s
office to protect himself. This apparently
unshakeable principle of solidarity to
leadership at all costs will serve Whitlam
well in the future, if, he would say
when, he succeeds.
It will allow him to do for Labor
what Menzies has done for the Liberals:
weld the Labor Party into a cohesive
force. He will return the centre of
gravity to the Parliamentary Caucus by
giving it unfettered leadership. It was
Evatt who created the monster of the
36 faceless men by turning to the machine
to bolster him in his Caucus leadership
battles, and Calwell who has kept it
running with his pusillanimous concept
of leadership from behind.
But when will Labor cry enough?
Those portents again. . . ,


m
:
IS
ilill
■I
■
3
■
. :
n
' ' ' ••
mm
■
: >■/-
.
\
JP%I
A
1
* r
' ~ : ■:
>*■
*4*
fe*
ss
5C
>:>
as*-
Men who guide the destinies of
the world wear
THE RO LEX " DAY - DATE"
Most remarkable achievement in watch-making, the
Rolex Oyster Perpetual “Day-Date.” Available only in
18-ct. gold or platinum, with matching “President”
bracelet.
Like all Rolex chronometers, every “Day-Date” is
now awarded the highest distinction of the Swiss Insti-
tutes for Official Chronometer Tests, the mention
“Especially good results.”
Its superlative accuracy is protected by the famous
Rolex Oyster case, made in Geneva by Swiss craftsmen
and guaranteed 100% waterproof, and its movement is
selfwound by the Perpetual rotor. The date and the day
of the week, written in full, change instantaneously
every midnight.
THE ROLEX WATCH COMPANY LIMITED (Founder: H.WiUdorf), geneva, Switzerland
SYDNEY: ANGUS & COOTE, SOO GEORGE STREET MELBOURNE :DUNKLINGS, 313 BOURKE STREET PERTH i LINDSAYS, 655 HAY STREET
BRISBANE: MACKAYS, 9 ADELAIDE STREET


Rolex watches
You know their names as you know
your own. You know their faces
from a thousand newspaper and
magazine articles. You have seen
them and heard their voices on
newsreels and on your television
screen. Their actions and decisions
influence the pattern of our lives.
We cannot mention their names,
or show pictures of them. It would
not be fitting to do so, for they
include royalty, the heads of states,
great service commanders. But we
invite you to look carefully at the
next pictures that you see of them,
at their wrists as well as their faces
and clothes. You will notice that
in almost every case they wear a
wrist-watch. That watch will
most likely have been made by
Rolex of Geneva.
We are proud of the service given
by Rolex w atches to so many
eminent men throughout the
world. It is scarcely necessary to
point out that the performance of
these watches is, in the highest
degree, accurate and dependable.
#
R OLEX
A landmark in the history of
Time measurement
The Korman Saga
Irresistible optimism?
By P. GIBBONS
tanley Korman’s star will rise
again; he is not finished by any
means.”
The man who said it was a stock-
broker. The time was when Mr Stanley
Korman’s star was well and truly down,
with all of the four major public com-
panies he controlled then being in the
hands of receivers or liquidators.
The strange thing was that this broker,
who had lost a lot of money for hjs
clients by putting them into Korman
stocks, was prepared to back Korman
once again.
For there is something about Stanley
Korman, the 61-year-old founder and
driving force behind the Korman group
of companies. It is a
“something” that car-
ries even hard-bitten
businessmen along a
road that only three
years ago led many to
disastrous losses and
some to financial ruin.
With his skin drawn
tightly, mask-like over
his face, with his neat
moustache and short,
thick-set build, Mr
Korman is still as
much a man on the
move as he was when
he came to Australia
from Poland 38 years
ago speaking very
little English. “Thirty-
five years ago I stood
in a queue for a ticket
for a free bowl of
soup.” he said in an
interview in 1961. “I
slept on concrete floors at Spotswood
Station on Saturday nights because there
were no all-night trains to get to the
morning shift on Sunday.”
He was then shovelling coal at Aus-
tralian Glass. His next job, as a presser
in a Brunswick hosiery mill, gave him an
insight to the trade on which he built
his success story.
When he saved up the deposit, he
bought four knitting machines on hire-
purchase to start out on a path that was
to make him one of Australia’s most
controversial financiers.
Had he stuck to textiles., his first
success, Mr Korman may have been one
of Australia’s major industrialists. But
it was characteristic of the man that he
branched out in a frenzy of activity to
land development, hotels, retailing, hire-
purchase, even boating supplies any-
thing in which he saw a chance to make
STANLEY KORMAN
money. But he is now back to the begin-
ning. The major asset of his surviving
company, Factors Ltd, is the hosiery
business of Holeproof New Zealand Ltd.
Last week Mr Korman’s chances of
re-building his shattered empire received
a great fillip when the Victorian Solicitor-
General, Mr B. L. Murray, said the
Crown would not proceed with its
criminal charge against Korman over the
1960 prospectus of Stanhill Development
Finance Ltd.
The direction not to proceed with the
case against Korman came from the
Attorney-General,. Mr Rylah, after four
months of further investigation by “an
experienced Crown prosecutor”, a senior
company squad de-
tective and a member
of the Crown Solici-
tor’s staff. But so far
there has been no
explanation to the
people who lost their
£2i million in SDF
why the damning
conclusions reached
in last year’s interim
report from the of-
ficial inspector into
the company, Mr
Peter Murphy, QC,
are now considered
not enough to support
charges against Mr
Korman.
Sir Leon Trout,
one of Brisbane’s
leading solicitors and
a former fellow direc-
tor of Mr Korman’s,
described him as a
good private company operator “but a
hopeless public company operator. He
always wants his own way all the time.
... He changes his mind so often and
so regularly. When planning any enter-
prise he starts with one line of figures
during the day, and the next moment
he has changed all over again. He was
hopeless when it came to any public
company administration. Nobody knew
where they stood. Some would get in-
structions one minute, but the next . . .
He was a compulsive buyer and a
reluctant seller.”
His presence is still enough to bring
a sense of excitement even to such a
significant group of businessmen as the
delegates to the Melbourne Investment
Symposium earlier this year. When Mr
Korman rose, “like the grey ghost of
Banquo” as one commentator reported,
to ask a question, there was an excited


Have you
ever
smoked
a
Panatella ?
Those who have
know what a fine
cigar it can be
—if it’s a Henri
Wintermans.
Made from the
best tobaccos
obtainable, rolled
by experts in
Holland to give
you the fine, mild
but satisfying
smoking expected
of the world’s
finest cigars. Ask for
Henri Wintermans’ Panatellas
Australia’s
most popular
imported
cigars.
PANATELLAS are
1/4 each. Pocket
packs of 5 for
6/8 or drum of
25 for 33/-.
*2
SA79/1
buzz in the audience. But the question
itself, reflecting the sort of self-delusion
of all visionaries, was a silly one, an
anti-climax. He asked what the stock
exchanges would do to protect investors
in “ailing companies such as mine” from
selling their debentures and fixed interest
securities at depressed prices when, if
they held on to them, they would receive
“114 cents to the dollar”.
Mr Korman was talking about Fac-
tors, the only company that has emerged
—even though sorely maimed —from the
collapse of the Korman empire. In trying
to tell the audience that investors should
have had faith in him on the strength
of the survival of one of his companies,
he managed to wipe from his mind the
millions of pounds of investors’ and
creditors’ money lost in his other com-
panies like Stanhill, SDF and Chevron
Sydney.
For the public, Mr Korman has been
a financial disaster. By 1956 he con-
trolled one public company. Five years
later he controlled seven with assets
totalling many millions of pounds. Today
he is back to one, with the others either
in receivership, liquidation or sold. And
this one he only managed to keep afloat
by borrowing £l.B million to get it out
of receivership.
To some extent, attitudes towards Mr
Korman are wrapped up in the Sydney-
Melbourne controversy. It was the
Sydney financial Press that first started
to howl for Mr Korman’s blood when
it was clear that things were going from
bad to worse in the group. Some of their
Melbourne opposite numbers who
seemed to have done quite well out of
buying Korman shares at the right time
and at the right price took the view
that it was all the fault of the credit
squeeze. Nothing could be further from
the truth. As the interim report by the
official inspector into SDF so clearly
shows, the methods of management in
the group meant that disaster was in-
evitable. The credit squeeze simply
hurried it up—and as a result saved many
people from losing more money in a
monster that had an insatiable thirst for
cash. The bottomless pit at Sydney’s
Chevron Hotel accounted for a large part
of the group’s money, but by no means
all of it. The withdrawal of the Hilton
group, when the credit squeeze hit, cer-
tainly made the financing problems at
the Chevron immediate, but it only
speeded up the inevitable day of
reckoning the group had to face. For
money had been splashed around by
Chevron Sydney Ltd (some of it on
speculative land development schemes
that had nothing to do with the hotel)
as if there were a never-ending source
of it. Chevron Sydney cost something
like £7 million to get up. It cannot
attract a buyer at a third of that price.
It is the Chevron that, in the end,
accounted for most of the SDF losses.
Talking of the “security” given to SDF
in a second mortgage over the Chevron
Hotel in Sydney, the company’s receiver,
Mr Robert Hughes, said: “Nobody in his
right mind would have supposed that this
was a security at all. It was not worth
writing down on paper.”
Mr Murphy reported that none of the
eight particular objects of the company
outlined in the prospectus was pursued
in the original use to which the funds
were put.
“No regard was paid by directors of
SDF to the fact that it was a separate
and distinct public company, with its
own moneys, its own expressed objects,
its own shareholders and noteholders.
From this stemmed their grossly careless
investment of funds and their reckless
disregard of the importance of securities.
The whole conduct of the business of
SDF by its directors is open to the gravest
censure.
“The falsification of the minutes of
the company, the back-dating of cheques
and receipts, the patent discrepancies in
the dates in the letters upon the loan
files ... all stem from the one root cause;
namely, that those in charge of the in-
vestment of the moneys of the company
had little or no regard for their duties as
officers of a public company.”
A black spot
11/fR Korman’s counsel had stated in the
March hearing that it did not matter
what was in the prospectus; that “there
were people willing to subscribe before
they knew what was in the prospectus.
The shares were reserved and people were
queuing up to get the shares through their
underwriters”.
Mr Korman, so vocal about his com-
panies in other circumstances, refused to
give evidence before the inspector.
Whether he has had much to say to
the officials who subsequently recom-
mended against proceeding with the
charges against Korman is not known.
But whatever the Crown has decided
about the legal state of the SDF prospec-
tus, it still remains a document that is
a black spot on Australian company
history.
But the matter may not have ended
yet. Mr Rylah told the Victorian Legis-
lative Assembly last week, under hefty
questioning by Opposition leader Mr
Stoneham, that dropping these charges
did not restrict the Crown in any way.
And the official governmental investi-
gation into the Korman group of com-
panies set in train two and a half years
ago is still not completed.
So it could be significant that M f
Rylah would not answer Mr Stoneham s
request to lay the complete file on Mr
Korman on the table of the House*


Part of Sydney’s Folklore
In the past more riots than South-East Asia
By PATRICIA ROLFE
The shabby curtains part and close
on each shaky item of the amateur
revue. The audience claps enthu-
siastically, and sometimes laughs in the
wrong places, as when one performer,
dressed as Mercury, crosses the stage
carrying a sign, “Time Passes”, held up-
side-down. The cast, taking prompts
without embarrassment, runs through
items on Menzies and Holt and the Beat-
les, and then a dramatised version of
“The Green Eye of the Little Yellow
God”, which takes some doing.
All in all, it is much like the entertain-
ment being ottered at most schools at
this time ot the year. But the hit of
the evening is the sketch in which the
superintendent of the Parramatta Girls’
School tries to get a dilatory Child Wel-
fare Department to approve the discharge
of one of the inmates, with the punch-
line that while waiting “she turned 21 and
we gave her the key of the door”.
This is a reminder that things are not
what they seem. That these girls, pretty,
bright and well-behaved better-
behaved, say the censorious, than half
the girls lolling on the beach “asking
for trouble” are set apart.
There are no school-leaving dances for
them, no reunions with school friends
at smart restaurants. Once the audience
of parents some parents only and
friends has gone, keys will be turned in
locks and the girls left, under sentence
of the court until the NSW Minister for
Child Welfare signs their discharge. And
once they leave Parramatta Girls’ School
they will want to forget that they W'ere
ever there.
But it is, of course, a bit late in the
day to grow sentimental over Parra-
matta Girls’ School. It has been around
for a long time. It is part of Sydney’s
folklore, along with Plunkett Street
School, Long Bay Gaol and Thommo’s
two-up school.
Parramatta Girls’ Training School’s
history began in the gold-rush days of the
1850 s. The main building, still in use,
was built by Roman Catholic nuns as
an orphanage for children, abandoned
by their parents as they hurried west.
Later, as the parents returned, rich or
poor, to the city, they picked up their
children again and the nuns closed the
orphanage.
Unwanted publicity comes in waves.
At times there have seemed to be more
riots in the grounds than in the whole
of South-East Asia. Two noted years
were 1954 and 1961. They can still
show you the roof from which rebellious
girls threw tiles at police. The tiles
have now been replaced by corrugated
iron; that takes longer.
However, for the past four years
things have been fairly quiet. There is a
new superintendent, Mr Percy Mayhew,
a former parole officer in Britain. The
staff turnover has been smaller. A staff
which is used to working together can
be a big factor in handling a large
number of young people.
Some work has been done to make
the old buildings more attractive,
although this has often been done ahead
of official approval. The interior paint-
ing was done by the girls themselves. At
one time, Mr Mayhew said, he had the
representatives of five trade unions at
the home at the one time, protesting
about the work being done by non-union
labor.
All the dormitories have light-colored
walls and bedspreads. The primitive
shower-rooms now' have curtains before
each cubicle to get away from the foot-
ball-team washing method. Each girl
has a wardrobe of nine dresses, varied
in color.
Conditions seem to have improved.
You might say things are not too bad.
They are not, within limits. The limits
are not imposed by the Child Welfare
Department or the officials at the home.
They are imposed by the amount of
money which the community is willing
to spend. At present, it may be, in com-
mon with treatment doled out to other
small minorities, such as Aborigines or
the physically handicapped, enough to
keep them out of sight, but not enough
to make them tax-paying, self-respecting
citizens.
It is. of course, somewhat naive to re-
mark that the girls seem pretty, bright
and well-behaved. They do look that
way. But one of the problems of Parra-
matta is that it is not only drastically
over-crowded—currently there are more
than J6O girls in an institution the Child
Welfare Department annual report des-
cribes as for 100 but that they re-
present many grades of delinquency.
The mixing of girls may not matter
so much when they are being mixed in
what Mr Mayhew feels is now a settled
and stable atmosphere. However, two
factors remain. Although the school has
“training” incorporated in its official
title, little training is done there. Little
can be done for the girls after they
leave. The Department finds someone
willing to take them after discharge, but
the willingness may only be token.
Last month two young hitchhikers,
killed in an accident at the foot of the
Blue Mountains, were not identified for
two days. They were former inmates
of Parramatta.
Many of the girls follow the delin-
quency pattern of being slightly below
average intelligence with few' job am-
bitions. And girls do tend, according to
a psychologist with the Department, to
continue to see each other “outside”
more than delinquent boys do. So while
the resolution to take a job and keep
out of trouble may be strong, the job
is generally poorly paid. Hence, a girl
is reasonably open to the suggestion from
other girls she has know-n at Parramatta,
or before Parramatta, that she should
work at something which earns more
money more quickly.
Parramatta must accept what the
Children’s Court sends them, so the
pressure is to get girls discharged as
quickly as possible. In the year July 1,
1964-June 30, 1965, 569 girls were com-
mitted to the home, as well as 222 girls
suspected of having venereal disease,
who were remanded there. Their stay
may be only weeks. Many of the girls
committed stay less than six months.
There is one school-room, w'hich ac-
commodates about 30 and teaches all
levels. Last year one girl tried for the
"I haven't lost a daughter, I've gained the Krisp-Tip account."


Howto
a succe
Santa Claus
(ON A $4.35 BUDGET)
Take our biased (but experienced) word for it. Give
King George IV and get the nicest ‘thank you’ you
ever received. King George IV the legendary
Whisky with majestic blending and mellow maturity.
Fit for a King—even without the big beautiful free
Christmas gift pack. $4,35.
P.S. Don’t forget to buy one for yourself.
King George IV '
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
fhe Distillers Agency Ltd. (Inc. in Great Britain)
OMM
’■ m-
/
A
m
*-.
If f ■
v,... ...Xi.
■4
11368
KG33.108


Special BULLETIN
Gift Offer
THE BULLETIN'S
BARRY HUMPHRIES
E.P. RECORD
Chunder Down Under''
is available for only 10s. post-free. It has two of the
hits from the show "Excuse I"—the surfie's "The Old
Pacific Sea" and the skier's "Snow Complications."
Send 10/- (a cheque or postal note, not cash, please) to
"Bulletin Records," Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney, together with
the coupon and address label below. (Records may also be
purchased over the counter from the Paper Sales Depart-
ment, sth floor, Telegraph House, 168 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, Monday to Friday, between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m.)
ADDRESS LABEL
BULLETIN RECORD RECORD ONLY
Name
Address
Sender
State
If undelivered, please return to Box *052, G.P.0., Sydney.
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
order FORM BULLETIN RECORD
Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney
Please DISPATCH
BULLETIN RECORD(S), price 10s. a copy (post free). I enclose 10s. cheque/postal note.
Name of sender
Address .
State i
If more than one record is ordered, attach list giving full name, address, State and,
if overseas, country.
Intermediate by correspondence but
there is not even the remotest possibility
of anything beyond that. The intelligence
quotients, gauged from the initial test
which each girl undergoes, run from 130
to 40 minus.
Most of the work is aimed simply at
keeping the girls busy. They do the
laundry, in a 19th-century laundry. They
learn elementary cooking and make their
own clothes and clothes for children in
other institutions. Many of them could
work afterwards as machinists. They do
masses of hand-embroidery of the sort
that these days you would expect to see
only in the hands of elderly nuns. So
restricted is space that some of them sit
all day at sewing.
Puppy-fat
T>he school’s space problem is most
A vividly illustrated by the number of
overweight girls. There are not enough
playing-fields or even gardens to exercise
the puppy-fat off. Many of them are fat
enough to depress a girl, already fairly
unhappy.
Some of them work outside and their
earnings are held for them. Some do
'domestic work, one works in a small
shop and some are at the Devondale ice-
cream factory.
Mr Mayhew sees little immediate pros-
pect of proper schooling, even for
those who might benefit, or for any com-
prehensive trade training. He concen-
trates on trying to make the girls bet-
ter adjusted to the outside world by
Peaching them how to handle practical
(matters, such as applying for a job.
In so far as it rests with him, he would
prefer to see a new home built rather
than expensive extensions to Parramatta.
This would better fit the modern idea
of smaller institutions and W'ould make
some measure of segregation possible.
Some steps are now being taken to
help girls after discharge by the estab-
lishment of what are know in jargon as
“halfway” houses, but which the com-
mittee raising money for them calls
Kurrawong homes. These will be subur-
ban cottages accommodating about six
girls and staffed by a married couple.
The woman will act as housekeeper for
a wage and the man can do his outside
job. Girls will be able to stay, paying
board, until they get on their feet. The
maximum stay might be around six
months and it is hoped each cottage will
become self-supporting.
A deposit has been paid on the first
cottage. It is near Parramatta but it is
planned to have cottages spread around
the city or in the country. The committee
knows that publicity is needed to raise
tnoney, but it hopes that, after a fair
sum is raised, public interest will die
away so that the girls in Kurrawong
homes will be able to merge with the
community.


SPORT
The Silent 40,000
For the first time in Gattellari's life
By DISCUS
1 hoped, after round 10 of the Burruni-
Gattellari fight, that Rocky would
see out the 15 rounds and have only
a points decision recorded against him.
A win on points is always a little open
to dispute and does less harm to the
reputation, sometimes even making a
profitable return match possible. Last
week in the ring at Sydney Showground
the Australian flyweight champion,
Rocky Gattellari, passed the point of no
return, or, as the airlines pilots call it
these days, the point of safe return. A
return would be most unsafe for Gattel-
lari. He has taken a pasting such as no
man should and continue boxing.
This is easy advice to give but hard
to take when a boxer is young and has
tasted the wine. However, it was the
right advice for Sid Prior three years
ago when he was beating visiting Ameri-
cans and getting hit too hard and too
often in the process. Fortunately, a dis-
pute with his manager, and a watertight
contract, has kept him out of the game.
How sad it could have been had he
stayed in and met Emile Griffith, the
world’s welter champion and a beautiful
fighter.
I mention Prior for several reasons,
which also relate to Gattellari. He had
come to the top in Australia in too few
fights. Our boxers can do this because
there is so little worthwhile opposition.
They feel invincible too soon. They
should go overseas and learn their trade.
Instead, they are induced to match them-
selves against men like Burruni, boxers
who know everything in the book, in-
cluding how to pace a fight, how to
change tactics to tie up an opponent, how
to wear a man down without wearing
themselves out.
For two weeks we had seen, heard,
and read a variety of opinions, rumors,
criticisms and witticisms about the fight,
almost outdoing the efforts of Cassius
Clay the week before. Every old pugilist
available was asked to comment on the
outcome. The story continued to the
afternoon of the fight, when Burruni told
his followers, in Italian, “The secret
punch, and then victory.”
The result was visible as I came to
the Showground entrance. Long lines
of people were queued for the £1 and
10-shilling seats. A loud-speaker an-
nounced that plenty of seats were avail-
able from ringside down. There would
be no 40,000 through the gate. The
preliminary bouts had already begun.
I hurried past the boys selling eight-page
“souvenir” programmes for four shillings,
and took the long walk around the
circular Showground arena to the stand
where I had a seat. Men with loud-
hailers directed the streams of people to
go right or left to their stands.
But the Sydney Showground is not an
ideal place for outdoor fights. The crowd
is too widely spread with about 200
yards between ringside and the separate
stands. The electric feeling which runs
through fight crowds, those wild Aus-
tralian comments and the crowd re-
sponse, the counting out of dull, crude
fighters, were all missing. Instead, the
night was very staid. There were enough
crude fighters in the preliminaries, in-
cluding the Australian welter champion,
Carmen Rotolo, but it would have needed
the voice of a Yabba to reach across that
ground. Even when the main event was
S. BURRUNI
about to begin, and color parties of boys
escorted the fighters to the ring behind
the contestants’ flags, there was hardly
a stir when first Burruni, then Gattellari,
climbed into the ring, and stood for the
National Anthems. Gattellari’s ring en-
trances have previously been gaudy, with
much dancing about, waving of arms to
friends. The occasion and the atmo-
sphere were too much, even for the
Gattellari camp.
It was an excellent fight, to the tenth
round when Gattellari’s sensible plan to
box at distance and try to slow Burruni
to a stumble rebounded. Burruni slowed
Gattellari to a walk, and began to hit
him about the head with both hands,
Rocky has always been hittable. Usually
it makes him fight back, to the hitter’s
detriment, especially if his opponent is]
only good for flurries at that time. Bur-
runi never stopped throwing dangerousj
punches from the first bell. The flurries
were Gattellari’s. It is traditional that
when Rocky really gets going, his sup.
porters chant, “Rocky, Rocky, Rocky”,
No such thing happened this time
although the stands were filled with Gat-
tellari supporters. There was never a
sign that Burruni could go down.
Rocky Gattellari had his chance in
the 12th round, when he cut Burruni’s
eye. But by that time Gattellari was too
worn, and Burruni was still too strong,,
In the 13th, Gattellari reached exhaustion!
point, without a dance left in him.l
Burruni clipped him and Gattellari went
down for the first time in his life, on
to his back, feet going up in the air.
There was no crowd roar. He took the
eight count and was soon down again.
Referee Harold Valan wiped his gloves
and let the fight continue. In walked
Burruni and hit Rocky somewhere. Any-
where would have done. Down went
Gattellari, flat, exhausted, finished., The
silent crowd stood up, trying to peer
into a ring suddenly swarming with giant
policemen.
Of all the theories about the fight, and
Gattellari’s training, the only one I can
see as valid is that seven pounds of trim
weight is a great deal too much for a
boxer to take off in a few days before
a match. If he fights again, it should be
at the 8 stone 7 lbs. limit.
This has its own problems. There are
not enough good bantams in Australia I
to provide a lean rooster with a reason-i
able living. For Gattellari the choice isj
between investing his £7OOO, less ex-|
penses, and giving the game away, or
taking the advice given by Burruni; to
go overseas and learn his trade properly.
That would be a bitter pill. He would
have to begin low on the list of world
bantamweights, of whom there are
hundreds. Harold Valan has said he
would like to manage him, and could
make him a world figure in a year. Any
Australian fighter going overseas, whether
to America, England or Italy, could be
thrown to the lions without a good
manager to care for his best interests.
The choice, again, is whether Gattel-
lari wants to continue in boxing, and
be a real professional, or remain in
Australia as a local champion, going
nowhere and soon forgotten, if not
reviled, by a fight crowd which has never
enjoyed the antics of his handlers, before
and after fights, and is as sentimental j
towards fallen boxers as a goat’s hind i
foot, and as hard.


"Sal -va - tor - ay! Sal -va - tor - ay!" chanted the Italian
woman two rows back. "What about Sal - va - latter - lay?"
riposted the wag beside her. "Box him. Rock, don't fight him,"
advised a serious student. "Remember your Mamma's cooking
and give him the old pat-a-cakes." "Take avray his walking
stick and hit him over the head with it. Rock"
The crowd was talking to itself, cheering itself up. In the ring,
serious as money, Burruni and Gattellari went about their private
business. Gattellari, unshaven, thin, in absurdly dainty high,
white boots with initials R.G., right hand high, like a banner.
Burruni, short, nuggety, impassive, violent. Two good tradesmen
building up points over the distance.
One almost forgets they are hitting each other. Then the blood
on Burruni's eye and the roar from the crowd reminds you. "Give
it to him. Rock you'll have to open it right up,"
The last round is awful. "Bu - rru - ni!" "Bu - rru - ni!" in
time to the punches. Gattellari, frozen-faced, eyes glazed, blood
framing his nostrils, mixing with the sweat. The dead smack of
his unconscious body.
"Bu - rru - ni!" "Bu - rru - ni!" changes to "Val - ter
Chi - ari!" "Val - ter Chi - ari!" The lights go out and the
Sydney Showground becomes again a place where the other
animals are shown.
LES TANNER
If the Captains Take Risks
Those whom the gods would destroy
they first encourage to make sport-
ing predictions: yet I feel that there
are sound reasons for running against the
tide of opinion mounting amongst Aus-
tralian sports writers and commentators
that the coming Test series between Aus-
tralia and England will be the dullest in
living memory.
Orthodox opinion at the moment is
that this must follow from the facts that
the English Test teams of the past four
or five years have been lamentably un-
adventurous and that the present touring
MCC side is one of the weakest yet.
Frndand stands convicted on the first
England stands co ic ,
count and there is no doubt that, the
impish and devious off-spinner Fred Tit-
mus aside, there is nothing terrific in
J f f. , . .
the English attack, none of he devastat-
ing speed of a Tyson or the fire and
fas?but lacks''‘thTstreng^ to keep it up
for more than a few overs; Jones is on
his first tour of Australia and. like most
English fast-mediums, will take sometime
to recover from the dampening fact that
seam and swing bowlers get much less
help from the atmosphere here than they
do from the English foggy dews: both
Larter and Jones have an un-English
quality of being often erratic in length
and direction.
Higgs, a right-hand medium pacer, has
both strength and accuracy but he can
scarcely be considered much of a threat
to Australian batsmen, being 28 and
never having played in a Test; the other
English speed bowler, David Brown, is
23 and more full of promise than per-
formances; as an Australian correspon-
dent in London remarked. If he does
welt, everyone in the English cricketing
world will be pleased-and surprised.”
Barry Kn.ght w.il bolster morale bu
not increase the fire-power of the front
line. Apart from Titmus, who must be
th best o ff_ SD i n ner and the
tne world s nest on-spinner, ana me
steady David Allen, the slow bowling is,
to use the local idiom, “very average”.
The batting is better. Boycott, Edrich,
Parfitt? and RusseU
are competent; Bar-
rin S ,on is one °* ,hc ,0 P half . do "“ ba,s-
men the world a " d ve / y hard t 0 d, , s :
mss - there are another three who could
change the whole nature of the Test ser-
*es: Cowdrey, Barber, and Smith. Cow-
drey at his best is capable of thrashing
the best bowlers of any country. Smith
has made over 3000 runs in a season in
England and, although troubled by weak
eyes, can be a punishing player once he
survives the early overs. He will be well
suited by the bright Australian light,
Barber has already shown in the early
matches of the tour that he is a most
aggressive batsman with a good array of
strokes.
The Australian bowling is not likely
to be very penetrating unless encouraged
fry W eak and defensive batting and, with
f b g sturdy Barrington as a potential part-
Cowdrev Smith and Barber should
“/d’ L chance to establish
reasonaWe scores in smart time . (Unlike
. ~ „ c . , ~
the unpredictable Davi Sincoc , om
Veivers and his defensive, uncomplicated
. .. , .
off-spin have no errors for the English.)
If England is able to compile scores of
the 300 to 400 mark in good time the
possibility of winning then becomes very
rea j Situations will be created in which
«« Australian captain will be forced to
take some tact,teal rtsks in order to wm.
Declarations w,II be necessary for victory
and forced by the logic of events,
These possibilities appear to have es-
caped the notice of the Jeremiahs who
have foreseen a dull and deadly Test ser-
ies ahead.
BRIAN BUCKLEY


Scotch
Haig
Whisky
22
H
*£<=»
<&r-
want a
mature
full-bodied
scotch?
Don’t be vague, ask for
Haig
H 4225
ON THE MARGIN
We of the Never-Never
One of my prized possessions is the
letter I received from H. G. Palmer’s
when I had paid the last instalment on my
television set. The company expressed
their gratitude in very warm terms.
Reading between the lines, I could see
they had been astonished by the regu-
larity of my payments. They enclosed a
handsome card which entitled me to
credit at their shops without further in-
quiries as to my financial position.
At the time I accepted this privilege
without any particular emotion. Only
later did I come to realise the import-
ance of the honor the company had paid
me. It qualified me for membership of
the exclusive coterie of Australia’s good
debtors.
This group of people receives very
little publicity. Because there are so few
of us, a common impression exists that
we do not count in the nation’s economy.
It was the need to protect our interests
that drove us to form the Good Debtors’
Society.
The Society has been a most successful
venture. We now hold regular din-
ners at which we talk over our hire-
purchasing and general borrowing
experiences. With a good roll-up of
members we fill half a dozen tables-
at a city restaurant.
We are fortunate in having an
energetic president in Mr Ted Pro-
bus, one of Australia’s most decorated
debtors. As well as a purple certificate
from Anthony Hordern’s, he holds the
three-star award from Commercial and
General Acceptance Ltd (which financed
the purchase of his car), the Custom
Credit Ltd Distinguished Paving Cross,
and the Eric Anderson Badge of Honor.
He won the last for paying off a fridge
in six months.
Ted’s buoyant personality does a lot
to keep up the morale of members. Some
good debtors are subject to fits of depres-
sion when they see the advantages en-
joyed by bad debtors; they also feel they
are unpopular with the general public,
which regards them as stuck-up.
Now and then one of them lets us
down a member had to resign last
month after his TV set was repossessed.
But mostly they are reluctant to lose the
prestige of belonging to the select Good
Debtors’ Society.
At our last meeting we heard an in-
spiring address from a new member, Mr
Les Pottle. He told us how he had repaid
a £5OO loan advanced on the security of
the goodwill of his fish shop. He is one of
the few who have ever completed this
type of repayment. Blue Horizon Cred-
its, the company concerned, which
specialised in loans on the goodwill of
fish shops, is now in receivership.
Mr Pottle admitted that when he took
the shop over it had more illwill than
goodwill. The previous owner had left
fish-heads in the street outside, and sold
fillets of shark as flathead. Mr Pottle in-
stalled a large new fish-and-chip frying
plant and a jukebox. By sheer diligence
he built up a valuable teenage fish-and-
chip trade.
When he paid off his loan, the manager
of Blue Horizon Credits was so moved
that he burst into tears. Mr Pottle invited
him and his wife to a fish-and-chips din-
ner.
Despite what people say, it is not true
that good debtors are a smug little clique.
We are ready to listen to the bad debtor’s
point of view. In fact, we invited one of
Australia’s leading bad debtors, Mr Fred
Flitworth, to come along as a guest
speaker.
He put his case very well. To begin
with, he stressed the hardships which
good debtors incur through obstin-
ately keeping up their payments.
“You spend three years paying off
a washing machine, and what hap-
pens then? It goes bung,” he said.
“Instead, you could have had it
repossessed and got a new one.”
Mr Flitworth went on to ex-
pound his philosophy of bad debts. “They
bring about a more equal distribution of
goods. You could call it socialism by
hire-purchase,” he said.
“Take the Ci se of a young man I
know I'll call him Gary McSharp.
Gary was about to go abroad. Before he
left, he rented a house under a false
name, and had a whole, load of goods
sent there on hire-purchase.
“He passed them on to his family
a washing machine for his mother, a
fridge for his auntie, and so on, even a
transistor for his young brother. Then he
shot through. By Gary’s unselfish action,
a great deal of happiness has been
brought to people who wouldn’t have had
it otherwise.”
Mr Flitworth spoke with emotion of
the way Australian living standards had
been raised through £75 million of bad
debts.
Yet this persuasive speaker failed to
win our members over to his way of
thinking. The good debtor has more
status, after all. We are looking forward
to our next meeting. Harry Tonks, who
has paid off his truck, is to be invested
by the Universal Acceptance Co. with
the Order of Promptitude, Second Class.
ROSS CAMPBELL


AROUND MELBOURNE
No Openings for Henry Bolte
The Prime Minister has cornered the insurance field
jpOR more than a year there was a
fearful trend of un-openings here
in Melbourne. Firms everywhere were
creeping into their glass houses with
no parties. Consolidated Zinc-Rio
Tinto set the pattern. There was no
official opening there. Maybe they felt
a little embarrassed before the share-
holders at having spent the money.
The Shell building was un-opened and
the BP building in St Kilda Road went
utterly un-opened. All this was hard
on the City’s formal openers. Mr
Bolte, who always has been our
champion opener, was left with
virtually a quiet time.
Now openings are back, but mean-
while the Prime Minister has gained a
complete corner on the insurance-
building openings, easily the most
fruitful field. Last March, the National
Mutual Life snared him to open the
National Mutual Centre in Collins
Street. He was most eloquent that day.
He referred to the Royal Insurance
building over the road, an 18-storey
coal black affair, often referred to as
the Black Stump. But here’s the rub.
The Black Stump was built on the site
of Scott’s Hotel, where Sir Robert and
his beloved Society of Melbourne
Scots always had their regular St
Andrew's Day with haggis and all the
works. Said Sir Robert: “I look across
the road and vainly expect to see
Scott’s Hotel where I will have you
Sassenachs know—they made the best
haggis in the world. Now it has been
replaced by a somewhat melancholy
structure not at all reminiscent of the
old roistering days.”
One could only describe it as a
triumph of public relations, but the
Royal Insurance people won Sir Rob-
ert for their grand opening at 3.30
p.m. October 29. And if that wasn’t
enough he opened yet another insur-
ance palace on November 29, the 15-
storey Scottish Amicable House. This
actually was easily the best of the
three and it will set the standard for
all future openings. The podium was
draped all over in the Menzies dress
tartan, not the Menzies hunting tartan
as they use to dress up the waiters at
Menzies Hotel. An insurance company
must not seem ostentatiously aggres-
sive. What’s more, they provided lunch
for all, unlimited quantities of Scotch,
Riesling, claret, gin, vodka, port, tur-
key, ham, prawns, lobster and haggis.
The haggis was piped in in the tradi-
tional manner—“warm reekin’ rich.”
That’s a good tip for all budding
PR men: provide a haggis. Sir Robert
is entirely human and happy when he
is pushing a dirk into the exposed
belly of a haggis. Actually it was a
pity that Scottish Amicable could not
have picked November 30, St
Andrew’s Day, instead of November
29. But, if you want a Prime Minis-
terial opening you must pick a day
when the Flouse is not sitting. National
Mutual and Scottish Amicable had
Mondays. Royal Insurance had a
Friday. Mondays and Fridays are good
opening days. Sir Robert admitted that
he is caught. What he has done for
one insurance company, he must do
for all. This is good news for us open-
ing lovers, for in Melbourne there are
many more possibilities to come.
T and G are building a £2.5 mil-
lion building in Elizabeth Street. The
Northern and Employers’ Group
Assurance companies are building a
£1 million building in Collins Street.
Legal and General Assurance are
putting up an 18-storey building on
the corner of Collins and Queen,
which should be most interesting. They
remodelled their old building back in
1930 and added a 120 ft. tower.
They felt that if they did this they
could out-tower the T and G. It will
be fascinating to see how they will go
about it with the new building.
But the opening of openings will be
the AMP building. Perhaps it won’t
be as beautiful as Sydney’s AMP
building, but they have been almost
as clever as they were in Sydney. The
site is magnificent, two acres of it,
right opposite Menzies hotel in William
Street. And, seeing that they also own
the Menzies building, come 1970 they
can pull it down, which will not only
keep society staff out of a pub that’s
altogether too close, but they will be
able to put up another building to
tone.
But first, after Christmas they will
start to demolish the two acres of the
old St James building, which they
bought from the Anglican church for
£li million. The St James building
was completed in 1889 when the land
boom was its splendid best, and all
the rich and the very rich indeed had
their offices there . . . gentlemen like
R. G. Casey, father of Lord Casey,
A. T. Creswick, scion of the Creswicks,
Sir William Clarke, grandfather of Sir
Rupert Clarke, John Sanderson and
his shipping line. Until recently there
were six wine and spirit firms in the
building, and up on the top floor were
all sorts of artists’ studios and strange
little flats. A private road runs through
the middle and across this runs a
superb archway which probably has
no equal in Australia. It’s a nice old
building which avoided the excesses
of Victoriana and until a few weeks
ago most of the offices had the original
fireplaces and many of the original gas
fixtures.
The plans of the new AMP building
are available, and although the AMP
gentlemen are a little shy about re-
porting estimated costs, they will, ac-
cording to one report, be £8 million. It
will be Victoria’s biggest office build-
ing, 353 ft high, 27 storeys plus a re-
markable six-storey L-shaped building
with tiered windows like a grandstand.
Down below they have done the right
thing with 40 per cent of the site left
as open plaza. The architects are
Skidmore Owings and Merrill of USA
in conjunction with Bates Smart and
McCutcheon of Melbourne. When Sir
Robert gets his haggis on opening day,
when wielding his dirk, let’s hope he
asks why Australian architects cannot
be entirely in charge of such projects.
BATMAN


tan Hautpaks with special side dump bodies used for iron ore haulage at Cockatoo Island, W.A.
s>m
' *
♦T-
" ' v , *v J “''K
y
- ~ I
ms
v 0
mm
' r
mm
LW
The mighty Haulpak Rear, Side and Bottom Dumps are made in
Australia to exacting job requirements and backed by the
specialised technical services of the world-wide LeTourneau-
Westinghouse organisation. Australian-built LW Haulpaks can and
do cope with the toughest jobs under the most difficult conditions
throughout Australia and overseas.
Here are a few of the major projects on which Australian-made
Haulpak Trucks are used: ■ HYDRO-ELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION,
SNOWY MOUNTAINS ■ IRON MINING, W.A. ■ CEMENT PLANT, N.Z.
■ COPPER MINING, MT. ISA, QLD. * BAUXITE MINING, QLD.
■ RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION, W.A. ■ DAM CONSTRUCTION, N.Z.
■ PYRITE MINING, S.A.
m
hr EXPORT
first MMhmeV.nl equipment manufacturer M receive the Awartf
for Ou'stanfl.nf expert Achievement*
LeTOURNEAU-WESTINIHOUSEPTY.LTD.
SOUTH STREET, RYDALMERE, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA.
Specialised Sales, Service and Parts facilities irr all States.
LW249.1Q6


THE INTELLIGENT WOMAN'S GUIDE
Speech Day 1965
This is my thirtieth Speech Day to
heaven. Or thereabouts. I began
in a Speech Day play, as Dr
Sunshine (a stunted six-year-old fairy in
yellow gauze and a stethoscope), and a
year scarcely seems to have passed when
I have not had a Speech Day.
I have been confused audience (how
can they give so many prizes to what
appear to be the same people?), sweating
prize-getter (if I drop my gloves at the
Archbishop's feet, how do I unlock my
knees from the curtsy, shake hands, pick
up the gloves, hold the book and
smile?), dignified school marm (Why
does my gown always trail along the floor
collecting lolly papers and chewing gum?
Why does my hood look like a sort of
rabbitskin-bottom muff? What is Fiona
doing with that cicada in her hat?), and
anxious mother (if she has to climb up
that wooden ladder on to the platform
she’ll have to do it on her hands and
knees and the darns in her bloomers will
be quite obvious to everybody).
Boredom, anxiety, discomfort, disap-
pointment these seem the predominant
notes. The infinite possibilities of things
going w'rong. The prize books you never
wanted to have and will never read and
can’t sell because they have the school
crest all over them. The numb listless-
ness of the speeches about how many
hurdles we bought last year, how many
people got Bs in the Intermediate, how
many people gathered limpets off the
rocks on excursions (and how many
people got kept in afterwards for con-
duct unbecoming to a lady?).
I have a tew treasured memories. Of
the naval captain who told funny stories
for halt an hour (some of them slightly
off, I rather think now) and then sat
down. Of the Speech Day in France (all
preparations done after school, from 4.30
to 6 p.m. and rehearsals on Sundays)
where a group of ill-assorted country
children, framed by tricolors and hide-
ously idealised painted scenery, sang
“Tannenbaum” in French and then let
off a whole lot of sparklers all over the
stage. Which seemed magnificently
symbolic, though I could never be sure
of what.
Most fondly of all, I remember the
distinguished gentleman who gave what
was clearly a modified version of his
Soys’ School Speech to a very sedate
female audience, telling it to buck up,
Play the game, take cold showers before
breakfast and do everything with all
ffs might, adding, not really as an after-
thought, that many a weak man had
been saved by a pure woman. He did
not, alas, go on to tell us how many
strong men had been destroyed in the
same way. But I did hear that his wife
gave the same speech to another girls’
school the following week.
I wonder what moral encouragement
I can look forward to this year. It’s a pity
I stored the croquet mallets on my
Speech Day hat.
CLARISSA BLACK
Pre-school World
You can pick up a bit of wisdom
from the kindergarten set. You
also get a lot of interest and sheer
entertainment out of it. Our daughter
finishes at kindergarten this year. We are
hoping the school party won’t be as big
a debacle as last year’s, when, arriving
on time instead of 10 minutes early, she
was hauled, her box of chocolates for
the teacher flung into one corner, shoes
and socks into another, into the back
row of the chorus of veil-tailed horses
before she had emotionally got through
the school gate.
She did her part the show must
go on but the atmosphere was damp,
and six months later the head teacher
for the 70-odd children at the kinder-
garten was still talking about my high-
strung daughter as if I had given birth
to a violin. There is a new set of teachers
now who talk about good social ad-
justment, and high adaptability potential,
so I presume the Christmas party inci-
dent was the sign of a thoroughly Aus-
tralian dislike of being hurried.
Social adjustment is not the most im-
portant result of kindergarten-going. I
would opt for the ordered activity which
draws a child back from the abysmal
juvenile boredom that sets bad patterns
for later life. But social adjustment
starts in the cradle. I realised this when
I was deciding whether a high or a low
chair was better for a child’s meals. The
low chair seemed safer but . . . “You
must have a high chair,” said a man
whose opinion 1 respected. “You can’t
start too early making a child realise
that he is a person, part of a community.
He has to be on your level at mealtimes.”
But to return to the kindergarten set.
You can see a developing social aware-
ness when your child comes home from
school and talks about “my friend”. A
child stops being a friend when she is no
longer a constant play companion but
you gather the parting of ways is not
painful. “You’re not my friend any
more” has few of the connotations it
is going to have even a few years from
now.
The kindergarten set is a selectively
imitative set. ft usually has good reasons
for being copycat. One child wears clip-
on buckle shoes (fastened with the flip
of a finger and, so the shoe-shop tells me,
designed by a kindergarten teacher who
must have been having bad dreams
about the miles of shoe laces she could
be asked to tie in any one year), and an-
other wants to copy “because the
teacher doesn’t have to do up my shoes
then.” One child wears plaits; another
demands to grow her hair “if I have
plaits then my hair won't be untidy”.
One child starts a fashion for aprons.
“I must have an apron so my dress keeps
nice and clean.” So it continues group
conformity with logic.
At home the logic can start to crack
and there are the situations when the
child mind cannot cope with a sophis-
ticated piece of reasoning. When the
Queen was leaving Australia on her last
visit a group of young children was al-
lowed to sit on the kerb at the end of the
royal route. Solemnly they sat, cross-leg-
ged, as she walked past. Then she turned
and stood for the playing of her song,
and the children sprang to their feet. You
mightn’t stand for the Queen but you
spring to attention at “God Save The
Queen”.
The advantages of a pre-school age
child going to kindergarten are so great
even catching measles, mumps and
chicken pox at an early age means at
least they’re finished with that it seems
a great pity that there is not the oppor-
tunity for every child to attend one.
It is probably hard to recapture the
feeling you had when your child begins
to walk and you realise that the soles of
his feet which have hitherto remained
pink and ungrimy are starting to get dirty
while the knees and the uppers of the feet
remain comparatively clean. But the
first piece of messy paper blobbed and
blotted with a mass colors “my paint-
ing” does, improbably, generate a
similar excitement to what you previously
thought was associated only with great
art.
MYFANWY GOLLAN


THE:
# #
r
r H
h°UghT£n
'*»■** ”V
Tffate su)uju xd'J
AND
STILL
THE
FINEST
MADE IN
WESTERN
AUSTRALIA
BY
tn
NEW ZEALAND NEWSLETTER
Uncanny Quiet
The first 20 months of the Indecency Tribunal
From MAURICE SHADBOLT in Auckland
Tt is jusi two years since the Indecent
Publications Act went through New
Zealand’s Parliament; the sound of battle
has barely died away. The bitterness
which rent even the literary community
here which might have been expected
to be united on the censorship issue
is still reflected in the membership of
the Wellington-based New Zealand PEN.
Prior to 1963 most names prominent in
this country's writing were to be found
in PEN. Today there is a mere sprinkle,
as a result of PEN executive support of
the Act when it went as a bill before
Parliament. A number of writers here
have chosen, as a direct result of the
Indecent Publications Act, to be organisa-
tionally voiceless rather than again risk
misrepresentation on censorship.
On the other hand, the Tribunal set up
under the Act has been functioning with
almost no direct criticism for the past
20 months. In a dozen decisions up to
the middle of this year it has judged
12 books and magazines not indecent,
seven indecent, and restricted three.
Cleared are four books of some literary
repute —“Lolita”, “Lady Chatterley's
Lover”, “Another Country” and “Fanny
Hill”; and to these might be added a
selection of work titled “Dead Fingers
Talk”, by William Burroughs. Of the
seven judged indecent, four are maga-
zines said to cater for homosexuals, and
three are cheap
American paper-
backs aimed at the
milk-bar audience.
Apollinaire’s “The
Debauched Hospc-
dar” and “Memoirs
of a Young Rake-
hell” are available
only to persons pro-
fessionally engaged
in the study of abnormal psychology;
and de Sade's “Justine” is available only
to psychologists, psychiatrists “or any
adult bona fide student of literature and
philosophy”.
Of equal importance is the change in
climate, as a direct result of Tribunal
decisions. The notorious Customs De-
partment “list” of titles booksellers were
warned against stocking—which actu-
ally was continued after the Tribunal
began work, and appeared to be sub-
verting its authority vanished after re-
newed public outcry late in 1964. (In
fact, however, the bulk of censorship
here is still done by Customs men and
this presumably will continue until some-
one comes up with an answer to the
problem of how to handle questionable
material, often aimed at a juvenile audi-
ence, in quantity.)
In Auckland, at least, it has been pos-
sible to buy such books as Burroughs’
“The Naked Lunch”, Genet's “Our Lady
of the Flowers” and Miller’s “Tropic of
Cancer” across the counter. And since
the phrase “adult bona fide student of
literature and philosophy” is apparently
left to the individual bookseller to inter-
pret, de Sade is available to anyone really
interested, too. “We can get a regular
customer virtually anything coming
from a reputable publisher in England
or the United States,” explains a book-
seller. “But that doesn’t mean we always
have the books in question out on dis-
play. Like ‘Candy’, say. But we’ve had
both the ‘Kama Sutra’ and ‘The Per-
fumed Garden’ on our shelves.”
It seems probable that many books once
banned in effect by Customs listing may
never go officially before the Tribunal.
Moreover, the expected counter-attack
from those interested in more and tough-
er censorship, not less, has still to come.
It would seem that censorship’s most
fervent supporters here seldom frequent
bookshops. This might be expected, per-
haps; on the other hand the present
rather uncanny quiet prevailing in New
Zealand on literary censorship might be
illusory; a quiet before a new storm.
There has been at least one portent: in
southern newspaper correspondence re-
cently a leading NZ publisher called for
some public book-burning.
This is why Stuart Perry's book, “The
Indecent Publications Tribunal” (Whit-
combe & Tombs), seems premature,
to say the least. If
past experience is
any guide, it would
need only one or
two instances of
parents or police
finding once - for -
bidden books in the
hands of delinquent
adolescents for the
Tribunal to be under
considerable fire. It has yet to meet the
test of public opinion. Then, too, Mr
Perry, a prominent librarian, has the
disadvantage of being one of the
Tribunal’s five members. Inhibited in the
first place from taking up a critical at-
titude towards the Tribunal's findings, he
reveals almost nothing about the work-
ings and attitudes of the Tribunal that
the informed outsider doesn't already
know.
As a short history of literary censor-
ship in New Zealand his book is useful,
but as an account of the first eighteen
months of the Tribunal’s work it is
grossly inadequate. Some things cry out
for clarification. Why was it, for example,
that the NZ Cabinet took the initial de-
cision on “Lady Chatterley” the hard-
back edition out of the Tribunal’s
hands? Mr Perry simply says the Tri-
bunal wasn't bypassed: that even after
being cleared by the Attorney-General,
the book could have been submitted
to the Tribunal by some interested citi-
zen, This still begs the question. The
initial application for the Tribunal to
consider “Lady Chatterley” was, in the
Tribunal's own words “refused by the
Minister”. We can only take it that such
a refusal could happen again, with less
happy results.
Subsequently, when the Minister gave


m
mmi
MEET ME AT MEMTES
Melbourne's most gracious hotel
A Member of The Federal Group—6o 1581
*®a,
Reservations through Menzies, Savoy Plaza,
Federal (Melbourne); Hampton Court, Menzies
(Sydney); Wrest Point (Hobart); Lennons (Bris-
bane), Lennons(Toowoomba), any airline or travel
agent.
9709
leave for the paperback version to be
considered, the Tribunal split 3 to 2 on
its decision to allow the book general
circulation, though all were agreed that
js was unsuitable reading for juveniles:
the majority held that any other decision
was prejudiced by the Attorney-General’s
earlier clearing the hardback for general
circulation. (In the first test of the appeal
provisions of the Act by the Secretary
of Justice, the majority decision was
later upheld by the Supreme Court.) The
first age restriction on a book didn’t
come, in fact, until the middle of this
year. The Tribunal judged “Fanny Hill”
to be indecent in the hands of persons
under 18 years of age, though it doubted
whether this classification would have
“the effect sought”.
The Tribunal ought, it seems to this
writer, to have the power to restrict sale
of certain books to reputable and recog-
nised outlets: to bookshops alone. It
doesn't appear to me that the freedom
to read would be sacrificed one scrap.
And it actually offends me, as a reason-
ably literate individual, that, of all D. H.
Lawrence's works, “Lady Chatterley”
should be offered for sale in my local
milk-bar along with chocolate and ice-
cream and comics. The place for the
book is in a bookshop, along with the
rest of Lawrence’s novels. A child or
adolescent may still find it there, but at
least in its context: that of literature, not
sensation.
Mr Perry says it is much too early to
assess the worth of “the experiment”
which the Indecent Publications Act of
1963 set in train. Experiment is a dub-
ious word. All we know is that censorship
can be liberal when administered by
liberal men; and we might have known
that before. There is no guarantee that
this will not change. Everything depends
on the membership of the Tribunal. The
Act stipulates that a barrister or solicitor
must be chairman, and that of the other
four members two shall have special
qualifications in the field of literature
or education. In the future, liberal aca-
demics and librarians could easily find
themselves a minority of two. There is
every reason to assume that the Tri-
bunal's present liberal composition is a
direct result of the criticism aimed at
the Government by Press, booksellers,
writers and others two years ago.
In another two years? Just what can
happen is indicated by the outright ban
on William Wyler’s film “The Collec-
tor” by the Film Censorship Appeal
Board, on which three elderly and ap-
parently unqualified public figures have
sat (till now, inconspicuously) for some
lime. A more rigorous censorship is be-
coming evident in other fields, too.
(Several folk and protest songs includ-
ing one by Bob Dylan —which have high
places on the charts elsewhere have been
banned by the paternalistic New Zealand
Broadcasting Corporation from the air
in this country: there is no question of
appeal. Miss Mandy Rice-Davies isn’t
allowed into New Zealand, despite the
recommendation of a parliamentary com-
mittee that no action be taken; and this,
it now seems, is the thin edge of the
wedge to exclude pop groups such as The
Rolling Stones and The Pretty Things.
The feeling of unease in a small, tight
and often stuffy country is likely to
become even stuffier as a result of the
recent News Media Bill.
There is nothing to stop censorship
having another field day here in litera-
ture; the Act of 1963 remains the most
potentially pernicious legislation passed
by New Zealand's Parliament. At least
the old Indecent Publications Act of
1910, as amended after the country’s
juvenile sex panic of 1954, was clear
about indecency. It was sex “unduly”
emphasised or “horror, crime, cruelty
or violence”. Disagreeable though this
may have been in effect as well as poten-
tial— “Lolita” and “Lady Chatterley’’
were clearly out of bounds —it at least
had the virtue of being straightforward.
In the 1963 Act we learn that the
word “indecent” (and it is the only at-
tempt to define the word) includes de-
scribing, expressing, or otherwise dealing
with matters of sex, horror, crime,
cruelty, or violence in a manner that is
injurious to the public good.
For “public good”, at any time in
history, read “public complacency” and
the picture is complete. And the Act, as
it stands, allows a book which might be
considered “injurious to the public good”
to be suppressed in secrecy.
In a brief introduction to Mr Perry’s
book, the admirable and liberal Sir Ken-
neth Gresson, present Tribunal chairman,
makes the startling suggestion that the
New Zealand legislation, as an innova-
tion in a difficult field, may be adopted
“in other parts of the Commonwealth . . .
with or without modification”. Australia
be warned.


OVERSEAS
Why the
PKI Failed
From DENNIS BLOOD WORTH
in Singapore
DR SUBANDRIO
GENERAL NASUTION
Provided misjudgments are glaring enough, observers may be too blinded to spot them, and it is for
this reason, perhaps, that the abortive coup and apparent subsequent collapse of the formidable Indonesian
Communist Party (PKI) seems so mystifying. At the end of September no Communist Party in the “free”
world was better placed to create the “revolutionary situation” which good Marxists regard as essential scene-
shifting before the curtain rises on Red Revolution itself.
The PKI was the oldest and biggest
Communist Party in Asia. Formed in
1920, its membership had risen from the
shoal waters of 5000 in 1948 to three
million in 1965, and it claimed at least
another 12 million active supporters
within its mass organisations.
In the 1956 local elections, the last of
any kind to be held in Indonesia, it had
swept the board in the main provincial
cities and ports of Java, and emerged as
the leading party in much of the
republic. Its young, dynamic and able
leaders had cannily allied themselves with
middle-of-road groups in order to isolate
diehard anti-Communists and conserva-
tives, and Indonesia's vociferous irreden-
tist claim for the return of Dutch West
New Guinea and her campaign to
“crush” neighboring Malaysia gave the
PKI excellent opportunities to take the
lead of a yelping pack of “anti-neo-colon-
ialist” nationalists who had the whole
nation plunging after them.
The Communists were also intelligent
enough to give unswerving loyalty to the
person of President Sukarno, who needed
them in turn to counterbalance the
Army and the Muslims. They had, more-
over, adroitly manoeuvred from a posi-
tion in which they merely murmured in
his ear to one in which they were be-
ginning to tweak it, to put sharp pressure
upon him to arm the peasants and work-
ers (ostensibly against Malaysia), to take
more Communists into the government
(he had accepted three already) and to
hold general elections in which they
would undoubtedly have made new,
gigantic gains.
They had meanwhile widely pene-
trated the administration, and had cut the
claws of the anti-Communist Army
leadership by engineering the repeal, in
1963, of the State of War Emergency
which had given the military sweeping
powers. It seemed only a matter of time
and tactics before they would dominate
the government that controlled the fate
of 105 million people from Djakarta, and
South-East Asia would find itself caught
between the hammer of China and the
sickle of Indonesia. If Sukarno died, the
PKI had its tame, “respectable” non-
Communist candidate for presidency to
hand in the unremarkable shape of Dr
Subandrio, the first Vice-Premier, for
party leadeis knew that they could not
themselves make any overt bid for direct
power without at once facing the guns of
the army.
Yet when Lieutenant-Colonel Untung
made his foolhardy grand-slam bid for
power by military coup d'etat on the
fatal October 1, it was at once obvious
that he was playing with party cards.
The official organ of the PKI immediately
hailed him as “patriotic and revolution-
ary”, the Russian and Chinese ambas-
sadors boycotted the impressive official
funeral of the six generals who had been
murdered by the so-called “Gestapu”
insurrectionists, and Aidit disappeared
into Central Java.
Colonel Untung, once captured, was
reported to have revealed that the Revo-
lutionary Council he had tried to set up
was to have been simply the puppet of
the PKI, that Sukarno would have been
retained as paper-president or, if he
refused, “kept in safety” somewhere. He
added that many thousands of Com-
munist women and youths had been given
weapon training before the coup, and it
was later disclosed that the PKI had
received massive deliveries of thousands
of arms from Communist China, some
shipped in boldly through the main
Indonesian ports disguised as building
materials.
But none of the ingredients in Aidit’s
recipe for “Revolution a l’lndonesia”
had really been secured, as far as can be
seen. The Army was not “fighting
against itself’’, with units deserting en
masse to the Communists. The para-
chute battalions which had been hood-
winked into supporting Colonel Untung
in the belief that Sukarno was threatened
by a reactionary plot quickly discovered
the hoax, and in nearly all cases hastily
switched sides —as the Communists
should have calculated they would.
Some soldiers have since defected to
the PKI in Central Java, one battalion
has given trouble in Djakarta, four
colonels have been identified as pro-
Communist renegades, and there has
been some purging of the ranks among
units in the capital. General Abdul
Haris Nasution, the Defence Minister,
has said that the PKI had managed to
suborn perhaps 10 per cent of junior
officers, and this figure might be higher
in Central and East Java and parts of
Celebes and Borneo. But it is evident that
his 350,000-strong Army (including re-
servists) is substantially intact, and the
degree of political disaffection within
it does not faintly resemble the inflated
claims of the PKI.
Njoto, deputy chairman of the party,
once told me confidently in Djakarta
that at least eight soldiers out of 10 were
sympathisers of the Communists, and
fervently “pro-Sukarno”. The secret of
Communist miscalculations may lie here
—in the attempt to pull the wool over the
eyes of outsiders by confusing loyalty to
Sukarno with loyalty to the PKI, and
fudging the figures accordingly. To what
extent did the Communist leaders in
Djakarta, fed with optimistic reports
from provincial cadres who only aimed
to please, end up by deceiving themselves
that they could split the Army like a
rotten fig? In the event the Army did
indeed swing to the side that wielded
authority in the name of Sukarno, but
this was the side of Army leaders who


COONAWARRA ESTATE
HERMITAGE
in?
ZxS
PRIDE
OF PLACE
COONAWARRA ESTATE
RIESLING
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CABERNET
The fine wines of the world have always been associated with specific places
and no wines are more specific about, or prouder of, their origin than
COONAWARRA ESTATE. Coonawarra is located (refer to the map on the back
label) in the south-east corner of South Australia, remote from other wine-
growing areas hence its exclusive character and strong touch of personality.
You will find Coonawarra ESTATE worthy the pride of place on your table.
cz> s^jV'
mm
m
"XX
< <H I\,**«*
lu
as sa
C4B
The select wines of Coonawarra
are labelled Coonawarra estate.
There are two Coonawarra
estate Clarets.
hermitage —1962 Vintage
CABERNET —1959 Vintage
COONAWARRA ESTATE RIESLING
1965 Vintage
A new Riesling wine-lovers will
welcome.
AN S. WYNN & CO. ESTATE
were in fact the sworn enemies of the
“Gestapu” plotters and their PKI back-
ers. The Communists had achieved
deep penetration of the Air Force, and
its Commander, Air Vice - Marshal
Omar Dani, was hopelessly implicated in
the recent coup. But this availed the
insurrectionists little.
Almost overlords yesterday, almost
outlaws today, the Indonesian Com-
munists seem to have miscalculated their
moment, their strength, their strategy,
and the savage determination of the
military and the Muslims to wipe them
out. But their mistakes did not end
there.
The key to successful revolution in
Indonesia was the support of President
Sukarno, whom the overwhelming major-
ity of ordinary Indonesians—in and out
of uniform regarded as father of the
nation. But the odious brutality that
accompanied the “30 September” coup at
once made it impossible for the “Bung”
to back it openly. Six leading Generals
were done to death, horribly mutilated
by doe-eyed girls of the Indonesian Com-
munist Party’s “Gerwani” women’s move-
ment, and their bodies pitched into a
well. Coup-crazed Communist youths
danced and sang around some of these
officers before they died, capering about
in glee at Halim air base in anticipation
of the bloody deed to come, when they
should have been moving without delay
on strategic targets in Djakarta.
TUToreover, the secret of the coup had
*** leaked, and although he was in fact
sceptical about the intelligence reports,
Genaral Abdul Haris Nasution was alert
enough to possible danger to skip over
his garden wall when the “Gestapu” con-
spirators came to gun him down. Their
failure to kill this arch-enemy was fatal,
and they compounded it by murdering
his five-year-old daughter. With this
demonstration of cold-blooded ineffi-
ciency they made the man who con-
trolled the half-million-strong armed
forces of Indonesia their most bitter and
implacable enemy, and they simul-
taneously stripped of all significance
Sukarno's kiss-and-make-up arguments
in favor of internal peace and unity.
These acts of terrorism, followed by
Communist mass murders in Central and
East Java, and the uncovering of PKI
plans for burning forests, creating fam-
ine, razing the houses of political
enemies, for kidnapping, killing and
robbing, have destroyed the old “patrio-
tic” image of the party. Today, it is not
the Communists who dominate the
streets of Djakarta. It is the outraged
Muslim mobs that now take their revenge
on them.
A disarmed Sukarno has- been reluc-
tantly obliged to appoint tough, anti-
Communist Major-General Suharto,


; v:;.,
aUOdV9NIi
BINCLUDE SINGAPORE • THE LION CITY IN YOUR
ORIENT TOUR PLAN.
Modern, bustling Singapore has been aptly named
the Lion City. Here If million Singaporean Chinese,
Malays and Indians live side by side - here you will
find the Orient’s most fascinating blending of
colourful customs, costumes and cultures - Stopover
- You’ll want to stay!
■ EXTRA PACKAGE OF HOLIDAY HAPPINESS
Further north - no more than an hour by air - lies
the beautiful States of Malaya. You've read about
it in books - now see it for yourself. See Kuala
Lumpur - Federal Capital of Malaysia - See beautiful
Penang - the Pearl of Orient • Island holiday resort
of Malaysia.
■ SERVED BY RENOWNED SILVER KRIS JET
Throughout Malaysia - throughout South East Asia
from Singapore - you’ll get there faster, get there
in real comfort when you fly by Malaysian Airways'
Silver Kris Jet. And in the air you’ll enjoy a superb
cabin service attended by charming hostesses.
WEEKLY
FREQUENCIES
SINGAPORE/HONGKONG -9
KUALA LUMPUR/HONGKONG-3
JESSELTON/ HONGKONG ■ 2
PENANG/BANGKOK -4
KUALA LUMPUR/BANGKOK-3
SINGAPORE/BANGKOK »7
Jet
MALAYSIA IV
CONSULT YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR QANTAS OUR GENERAL SALES AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA
AIRWAYS
SERVING SOUTH EAST ASIA
whom he heartily dislikes, Commander-
in-Chief of the Army, and is reduced to
making empty speeches about the need
to end violence and restore unity, while
the Army goes about its own grim busi-
ness of systematically mopping up the
Communist militants in Central and East
Java.
The crowd is roaring for the dismissal
of Dr Subandrio, the First Deputy
Premier, who has so obligingly co-
operated with the PKI in the past, and
only now decided to denounce it as
“treasonous”. As for the defunct Revolu-
tionary Council invented by the coup
leaders as a respectable front for the
Communist take-over of power, its so-
called “members” began denying that
they had ever agreed to belong to such
an organisation almost before the ink
was dr.y on the list of their names.
The PKI, torn from its pre-eminent
position of strength in Indonesian affairs,
is now at bay. Thousands of its members
have been arrested for suspected implica-
tion in the coup, and there are conflict-
ing reports that Aidit himself has been
killed. The party has been banned in
West Java, South Celebes and the
Moluccas, and there is heavy pressure on
Sukarno to outlaw it completely. Minis-
tries, Public Services, the Army, the
Universities and even private organisa-
tions have embarked upon a grand com-
pulsory witch - hunt. To eject from
office sympathisers of the conspirators,
the PKl’s headquarters has been burned,
and its country-wide communication
network has been destroyed.
Over-confidence
most charitable explanation for this
Communist debacle is that the PKI
was forced into hasty action by a con-
viction that if it were not quick it would
be dead. It has been said that the
Chinese doctors attending the President,
acting on orders from Peking, whispered
that Sukarno was about to die. This is
supposed to have galvanised into revolu-
tion Communist leaders who knew that
his demise must in any case lead to con-
frontation with Nasution and the Army,
and felt that they must therefore liter-
ally jump the gun. The Chinese regarded
Indonesia as the larger-than-life working
model that proved their theory of “per-
manent world revolution”, and looked
upon Djakarta as the other terminal of
an axis on which South-East Asia must
one day spin. For them, therefore, much
was at stake. Somewhat significantly,
they had invited up to 100 Indonesian
Generals to Peking for their National
Day celebrations on October 1, and had
then dropped a hint that big changes
were about to take place in Djakarta.
Purveyors of arms to the PKI, they may
also have been purveyors of bad advice,
for the abortive revolution smacked
above all of the besetting weakness of
Chinese Communists —over-confidence.
There is also the story that the anti-
communist Indonesian leaders were in
any case planning to liquidate the Com-
munists, or that the PKI chiefs at least
believed so, and were, therefore, reluc-
tantly compelled to draw knives first.
Finally, apologists for Aidit suggest that
Njoto and Fukman, his immediate lieu-
tenants, who controlled the party mach-
inery, were more interested in revolution
than in national unity and the peaceful
acquision of power, and pushed their
more cautious leader into ill-timed
action.
But this is by no means certain. Aidit
himself condemned suggestions that the
PKI should wait until the country was
ruined so completely by its corrupt and
inefficient government that the party
would only have to raise a finger to start
a revolution. At the last PKI Congress
he reportedly declared that when the


GRILL
COMPLIMENTS
YOUR
GOOD TASTE
In an atmosphere of gracious living, the foocf.
§
cellar and service are supreme . . ,
Whether in a hurry or with time to tarry, the
service keeps pace with your wishes.
A snack, a sumptuous repast, a coffee, an
aperitif, all are available from morn till midnight.
Each week, in addition to the fabulous daily 'a
la carte', an excitingly different international menu
is presented for your enjoyment . . .
In the evening, Alexander Grant’s ensemble
provides pleasant background music and invite 3
your personal request . . .
The inexpensive luxury of the GOLDEN GRILL
is yours all day, every day . . .
CHEVRON HOTEL. MACLEAY STREET, POTT'S POINT. PHONE: 35 0433
time came, the PKI could take over the
government of the country in four days.
He had said earlier “armed struggle is
the most important form of revolution”,
and just one week before the coup he
urged the workers of Indonesia to be
“daring, daring and still more daring to
take over, take over and take over
again . . .”. Aidit indicated that a
coalition Nasakom cabinet of National-
ists, religious representatives and Com-
munists which his party had earlier been
calling for would no longer be good
enough—there must be a cabinet con-
sisting exclusively of “those supported
and loved by the people”.
Tt is possible that Aidit acted in the
catastrophic traditions of his party.
In 1922 the Dutch colonial authorities
hobbled the young Indonesian Commu-
nist movement by exiling one of its lead-
ers after he had tried to act too early,
and they banished another a year later.
The Communists next tried to call a
premature general strike, and in conse-
quence a third leader was removed from
the country. In 1926 the Communists
rose in revolt, seized telegraph and tele-
phone buildings in the capital, and raised
barricades in provincial towns. The
Dutch crushed the insurrrection within
a week, hanging nine ringleaders and
gaoling thousands of their supporters. In
1948 the party mounted another armed
rebellion at Madiun in East Java. The
rebellion was smashed in three months,
the leadership liquidated, and Tan Mal-
aka, master-mind of the revolt, executed.
The Communists then followed this up
with another campaign of agitation,
murder and arson. By 1951, 15,000 more
of them had been arrested.
Will masochistic history repeat itself?
So far Sukarno has refused to sack Sub-
andrio or ban the PKI, but most quali-
fied observers believe that his influence
will continue to wane, and that Nasution
and Suharto who now see him as
little as possible will not be deflected
from their self-imposed task of destroy-
ing the PKI, bloodily if necessary. If
ever a new Marxist party arises in In-
donesia to make the formation of a
Nasakom cabinet possible later, it is like-
ly to be a Nationalist and Socialist
organisation bearing no more resem-
blance to its conspiratorial predecessor
than does man to monkey.
On the other hand, Nasution has
warned that armed, secret supporters of
the coup are still active, and are plan-
ning a counter-attack on Java.
Java may be churned up by prolonged
guerrilla resistance, and the revolution
may even enter another phase in which
the Communists will suddenly reveal a
new masterly strategy and formidable
reserve of power. But the odds seem to
be against it.
The Salisbury
Carpet-baggers
A joke called sanctions
From ROY PERROTT in Rhodesia
Some new faces and new accents have been noticed around Salisbury these past
few days. They belong to the salesmen, agents and other carpet-baggers who, like
certain African birds, can sense an appetising situation from miles away.
In the daytime they glide around their
contacts in the business quarter, assessing
the bargaining strength of the outlawed
animal and its need for succor. In the
evening they eye one another carefully
across the hotel lounges, holding their
drinks and conversations close to the
chest.
The significance of their presence is
to confirm, as many had predicted, that
the trade war continues behind the politi-
cal dialogue; that the individual business-
man’s instinct for a deal may help to
cushion the effect of sanctions whatever
his government may decree.
Some of the agents may be freelancing
and simply sizing up the opponents.
Others identified to me are agents for
French and Italian principals and the
terms they are ready to discuss suggest
that there must have been consultations
with European headquarters. The Japan-
ese who are present on the sidelines are
said to be uncertain whether their future
lies with black Africa or the white South.
Considering the tightness of import
controls and the complaints about short-
age of foreign exchange, it is hard to see
what Rhodesian agencies could buy.
Mercedes dealers, for instance, have
been told that they will be allowed to
bring in only 12 cars a month instead of
the usual 40 in the first four months of
next year. The Ford and BMC plants,
which build their cars here from assembly
kits, will be allowed to import enough to
stave off unemployment.
But all Rhodesian businessmen are in a
confused and uncertain state. Not one I
have met can explain clearly what he
can or cannot buy or sell. There are
long lists of goods for which import


e
TO
BY
1,000 MILES LESS OCEAN
ON THE SHELTERED, SCENIC
ST. LAWRENCE ROUTE.
. .
m
i i
■**» * *&&«£s - -k,
Ifrtin
Aboard a sleek "White Empress” you’ll find
enjoyment and comfort to highlight your
journey to Europe. Staterooms, crystal-clear
pools, club room, shops, starlit terrace, dancing
and the world-famous Canadian Pacific service
and superb cuisine. Ask your Travel Agent for
illustrated literature and details.
Canadian (Pactfic
(incorporated in Canada, liability of members limited) Ships/
Trains/Planes/Trucks/Hotels/Telecommunications. World’s
most complete transportation system.
licences are needed, but the anomalies of
cash and credit make the whole thing
a gamble. With the stopping of London
bank accounts, many find that they can-
not pay minor bills like club membership
fees or tailors’ accounts there. Yet pay-
ment in thousands for cargoes of Rhodes-
ian minerals and so on still goes through.
Everyone in the import-export business
is beginning to have a worrying time. The
smaller firms are contemplating closure.
Others have laid off staff. Office jobs of
all kinds have become rather hard to get.
Yet if sanctions are to become reasonably
effective, unemployment must spread far
beyond the present rate,
The Smith regime, I understand, is
working on the theory that only 5000
whites (out of a labor force of 88,000)
will be thrown out of work over the
whole .period in which sanctions are
likely to operate; and that about 25,000
Africans (out of 645,000 workers) may
lose their jobs.
These pockets of jobless and dis-
affected Africans round the country
could well stretch police resources. But it
is calculated that there would not be
anything like enough unemployment
among the white electorate to turn feeling
against the regime.
The whites have certainly shown them-
selves in the past to be ungrateful
towards their political leaders and ruth-
less about discarding those who don’t pro-
duce the goods. But though Mr Smith
may be a cardboard Caesar in the White-
hall view, his present dominance of the
country and his talent for glossing over
hard realities with a sentimental-heroic
note should not- be underestimated.
The news from London suggests to
most people of moderate opinion here
that there may still be illusions about the
ease with which the Smith regime can be
displaced by economic pressures. Mr
Wilson’s statement last week that Britain
cannot enforce sanctions on its own may
be realistic, but it is naturally taken here
as a sign of weakened nerve.
fl/fR Wilson has mentioned his ultimate
objective of handing over control of
Rhodesia to a Cabinet of moderates. It
is fairly easy to predict who they would
be. This week I canvassed the opinions
of the six available (the African members
are either in restriction or abroad). All
of them met Mr Wilson during his visit
and helped to form his opinion about
what should be done.
Only one, a retired lawyer, thought the
present rate of sanctions would work.
The consensus of opinion was that they
would simply damage the economy with-
out having the crunch of speed and
effectiveness.
Most of them were surprised about
the slow and partial nature of the em-
bargo. They supposed that sanctions had
not been imposed on Rhodesian minerals
like asbestos and chrome because of
American and British control of the
parent mining companies.
They doubt Mr Wilson’s apparent
belief that “gradual pressure” would be
enough. Slow attrition would mean that
the economy would be damaged, markets
lost, without knocking Mr Smith.
The regime would be given time to find
other forces and markets. Foreign gov-
ernments would be more inclined to
recognised a de facto regime. The initia-
tive would pass more quickly into the
hands of African extremists.
They do not see any prospect of effec-
tive pressure until the Government tries
to sell the tobacco crop next spring.
There are said to be chances of under-
the-counter markets at half the usual
price. At the moment the farmers are
not greatly worried.
With the soft anti-climax of no effec-
tive sanctions, moderate opinion here is
still looking to the courts for some defi-
nite decisions about the illegal nature of
the Smith regime, (ofns)


BRAMBLES NEWS
Australian Owned — Australia Wide
Vol. 2, No. 7
December, 1965
Christmas Message
A Look Back into 1965
from the Chief Executive
Brambles News, being our House “newspaper,” addressed to every
employee of the Company, is the most appropriate medium in which to
express to everyone, the greetings and best wishes of the Season.
All concerned should feel personal pride in the accomplishments of
your Company during the past year. Such accomplishments, as have
been amply demonstrated in the pages of Brambles News, bring with
them great responsibilities to preserve the standards of service. Physical
facilities, buildings, and equipment do not serve a useful purpose
without the skill and spirit of service of the people who operate them.
Management is confident that the skills and loyalty of all members of
the Brambles group of Companies, are high, and that the variety of
services provided are important to the community.
For the New Year, let us all resolve to maintain these high standards, as
citizens of our wonderful country, and as servants of our clients and
the stockholders of the Company.
The Directors join with me in expressing best wishes to all for a joyous
festive Season.
Warwick J. Holcroft.
For some years, instead of making token gifts to business
associates at Christmas, the Company has preferred to support
a worthy community work. So it is this year, with one such cause
being selected in each State and receiving substantial help.
In Townsville, the Queensland Bush Chil-
dren’s Health scheme has been sup-
ported. Branches in Brisbane Region
have adopted the Queensland Sub-
Normal Children’s Welfare Association.
In New South Wales, donations of equip-
ment have been made to the Royal New
South Wales Institution for Deaf and
Blind Children, to assist children who
can neither see nor hear.
Melbourne’s donation is equipment for
the Old Peoples’ Welfare Council of
Victoria forthe expansion of their “Meals
on Wheels” service.
The St. John’s Ambulance Brigade,
which is establishing an aerial ambu-
lance service to the outback areas of
South Australia, is being supported in
that State together with equipment for
a community swimming pool planned
for Whyalla.
In Perth, the splendid community spirit
displayed by the Surf Life-Saving Asso-
ciation has been recognised by the gift
of a much needed surf boat.




THE [?]VING
FOR [?] OF
BRAMBLES
TRA[?]ORT
Brambles Transpltes across Aus-
tralia, supplying It and Customs
and Shipping seijmeet the needs
of importers andeand all who must
rely on an efficieijort organisation.
It’s clean! The Liquid Cartage tanker fleet carries all types of
products: petroleum products, chemicals, edible and industrial
vegetable oils, liquid petroleum gas and anhydrous ammonia. Each
tanker is thoroughly cleaned after each cartage job to ensure that
no trace of the previous product carried remains. The tankers are
constructed of stainless steel, aluminium and special coated mild
steel, and the interiors are cleaned with high-pressure steam and
detergents so that any load may be carried with complete safety.
PSSSSSSSSST!
BOUND FOR THE
OUTBACK
The Hammersley Iron Ore development in Western Australia is a project of major national
importance, which will add hundreds of millions of pounds to Australia’s export earnings.
Brambles Transport recently hauled two 80-ton triple-compartment tanks for fresh water
and diesel fuel from the manufacturer in Sydney to the dockside, where they were
loaded aboard a charter ship for the journey to Port Hedland, the nearest harbour to the
development site.
Each tank was 61 feet long and weighed 38 tons, and a turntable was mounted on the
low-loader to allow the rig to accommodate the long load. The rear of the tank rested
on a special set of wheels.
Brambles is continuing its association with the Australia
Square Project, begun by the Industrial Services Division with
the excavations for the tower building, which will dominate
Sydney’s skyline. Low-loaders of the Transport Division are now
carrying the quartz-chip-faced wall sections to the site. These
need careful handling and will provide the tower building with
an unusual “ribbed” effect.
TWO
FOR
SYDNEY
Brambles was at Sydney’s 3rd International Trade Fair as the “moving force” for the
Royal Thai Barge, a feature of the Pageant of Asia Spectacular. The Australian Elizabethan
Theatre Trust called on the Transport Division to handle the barge at the R.A.S. Show-
ground during each performance of the Spectacular. The low-loader had to be specially
adapted to handle the 150-foot-long barge.
BRAMBLES
BAGGAGE
When more than eight hundred new citizens
arrive in one ship, on one day, the amount of
baggage they bring with them is enormous. In
Adelaide, the Customs and Shipping Division
recently handled the baggage for 847 migrants
who arrived on the S.S. Fairstar.
The baggage of those migrants who will live in
Whyalla was transported there by Brambles
direct from the wharf.


NO PARKING -
JUST YET
Brambles Adelaide subsidiary,
Nicholls Crane Services, is under-
taking steel erection for a new
parking station being built by
the A.M.P. Society in Adelaide.
Nicholls’ contract was to Marshall
& Brougham Pty. Ltd., and from
the number of “sidewalk super-
intendents” present on the site,
the project would seem to be
receiving enthusiastic support from
Adelaide’s motorists.
CEMENT WORK
Nicholls Crane units place a portion of a rotating kiln in position at
the Adelaide Cement Company, Birkenhead. The kiln weighed 45 tons
and two Coles cranes, working in tandem, made the lift.
CHEP VISITOR
Mr. Arthur Beach, the Manager of CHEP
Sales and Service, met Mr. Dan Wessman
(on the right) when he arrived in Sydney
from the United States. Mr. Wessman,
a leading authority on materials handling
in the United States, is Sales Manager
of the Gerlinger Company, a subsidiary
of the Towmotor Corporation of the
U.S.A.
CHEP is N.S.W. Distributor for Towmotor
Fork-lifts.


Introducing ... DAILY freight service DIRECT TO
★ Adelaide Depot: 885 South Rd., St. Marys.
Telephone: 76 6134
Brisbane Depot: .Ipswich and Elmes Rd., Rock lea.
Telephone: 47 2984 or 47 1510
Via Mildura • West Wyalong • Dubbo • Moree with
OVERLAND TRUCKING -GO.
Dr K’s Fatal Mistake
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
Already a mythology is being constructed about the rejection of Dr Knopfelmacher from Sydney
University. The facts that the Sydney Professorial Board acted in what the Commonwealth Minister-in-
Charge of Education has alleged is an “unprecedented” manner and apparently for “political reasons” are
being swept into an academic back cupboard and an almost official Leftist line is emerging in which all
aspects of his rejection are omitted except those raised by his article in the Jesuit magazine “Twentieth
Century”. The Communist “Tribune” was the first to do this, but now this view has even been endorsed
by “Nation”.
“Tribune” is one thing, “Nation” is
quite another. One expects “Nation” to
present an intelligent and sometimes
original liberal or Left-liberal account
of the issues it raises; but there are
two areas' in which, characteristically,
“Nation’s” stance, like that of its English
cousin “The New Statesman”, is in-
adequate: those of Communist infiltra-
tion and subversion, and the necessity
and tactics of anti-Communism. (The
topic that “Nation” ought to set itself
for homework from time to time: “Write
an essay demonstrating that liberals
should be practical anti-totali-
tarians. Why is it that so many
will not?”)
j “Nation” has now taken a
firm view of Dr Knopfelmacher’s re-
jection, announced in its November 27
issue. First, it explains how the two
I conflicting decisions of the Selection
Committees may be reconciled: “There
is one good piece of information which
.would make people change their minds
! about appointing Dr Knopfelmacher
;since the first Selection Committee sat.
ilt is the article he wrote in ‘Twentieth
Century’.”
| Secondly, it decides in favor of the
(Professorial Board: “Why should the
University of Sydney ignore this publica-
tion of Dr Knopfelmacher’s, after its
attention has been drawn to it so in-
sistently? Would not an appointment in
this context be a public invitation to all
and sundry to conduct themselves in the
same way?” “Nation” also declares that
few Australian universities would ignore
what Dr Knopfelmacher wrote about his
colleagues and about students in Mel-
bourne, unless he either substantiated or
withdrew the allegations.
The fact that Sydney University auth-
orities neither investigated Dr Knopfel-
macher’s allegations themselves, nor in-
vited him to substantiate them, is only
one of the many items of the complex
which “Nation” ignores in its anxiety to
erect the official Left-liberal mythology
and comfortably close the case. It is
clearly time to have a look at Dr Knop-
felmacher’s “Twentieth Century” article
anew.
It appeared in the autumn 1964 issue
of that magazine and I myself do not
accept parts of it. I certainly maintain,
however, that Dr Knopfelmacher has
taken a reasonable view for which a
good deal of evidence can be offered.
One of the central parts of the thesis
advanced by Dr Knopfelmacher in the
article is that the attempt by himself and
others to free students at Melbourne
University from Communist influence in
He made out a reasonable case
certain key areas (such as their attitudes
to America, South-East Asia, and to
defence) was seriously impeded by what
he calls “The Old Melbourne Left”.
“From positions of importance on the
Professorial Board, in the Staff Associa-
tion, and elsewhere . . . the Old Mel-
bourne Left continues to wield the whip-
hand, or at least to exercise significant
veto powers in matters of academic
preferments and sinecures. It maintains
close informal contacts with Left-wing
ALP parliamentarians, with trade union-
ists, and with Communists. Unlike con-
servative academics, the old ‘Lefties’
have no real respect for genteel academic
proprieties and they do not hesitate to
use their powers in a politically corrupt
and corrupting manner. Around them
there is an amorphous soft cushion of
ignorant ‘liberals’ avid at displaying
‘liberal’ reflexes in the old way, on good
terms with the Old Left, and ‘nice’ to
Communists. The conservative element
which makes up the bulk of the Uni-
versity Council, much of the University
Administration and a part of the Profes-
sorial Board adopts the outlook of
essentially unpolitical officials whose
paramount desire, characteristic of
bureaucracies through the ages, is not
to rock the boat.”
Does anyone seriously deny that this
is a reasonable proposition? Does any-
one seriously deny that Leftists have
manipulated appointments in Melbourne
University, and that many academic
conservatives are always anxious not to
rock the boat? If it is doubted, surely it
is at least a credible proposition, the
evidence for which could be examined.
It is not an inherently absurd view, even
if the evidence is often hard to pin down
As I write, there is in a folder alongside
a letter which any member of the Sydney
University Professorial Board may in-
spect. The letter is signed by a member
of the Old Melbourne Left, a
prominent figure at Melbourne
University. It is addressed to a
man who fell out with Com-
munists and the leaders of the Old
Left over specific policies. It says: “Be-
cause I regard this matter of some im-
portance and because I consider you
and a few others holding similar opinions
are doing a tremendous amount of harm
to progressive cultural movements in
Melbourne, I am passing your letter on
to an appropriate quarter.” The ap-
propriate quarter, the recipient assures
me, was a clear reference to a person of
influence in the Old Melbourne Left who
had a great deal of control over his
prospects of advancement. I can also say
that I have been told by two junior staff
members that senior members of their
departments warned them to drop cer-
tain policies and associations or lose
their chance of academic advancement.
One highly respected professor has also
alleged that he personally knew of in-
timidation of members of staff for what
appeared to be political reasons. If Dr
Knopfelmacher’s view is false, it can be
exposed. I believe it is true; but at the
very least his view is a reasonable one.
Another crucial passage in the article
discusses the tactics Dr Knopfelmacher
believes were chosen to weaken the
radical, anti-Communist forces in Mel-
bourne University: “The tactic chosen
was internal disruption and the devices


oo
the heaviest, most awkward loads are no
problem at all when you leave them to
tyayne Nickless, the most experienced
operators in the heavy cartage business
in Australia. The Mayne Nickless fleet of
semi-trailers, low loaders, bulk loaders
and mobile cranes makes light work of
the biggest jobs. Loads are carried safely
and efficiently, anywhere to anywhere.
Phone today . . . and get things moving
with Mayne Nickless!
MAYNE
NICKLESS
LIMITED
1886/83/65
were sectarianism and sex. They were
cleverly selected; the organisers of the
Hitler Youth had shown the way. To
paralyse a hold on the young which
had been based on rational arguments
and pride in intellectual and cultural
achievements, one fans and exploits
racial or sectarian prejudice and the kind
of sexual restlessness and curiosity which
characterise normal adolescence and
early maturity. By the end of 1962 and
at the beginning of 1963, a flood of sec-
tarian rubbish and pornography—ranging
from ‘scientific sex talks’ to ordinary
smut —were flooding the University and
the student Press, tearing up and destroy-
ing like a muddy torrent educational
achievements attained through years of
patient academic work in extra-curricular
lectures, tutorials and seminars. Free-
thinkers and Catholics who had worked,
fought and studied side by side for a
better Australia in the past, were now
tearing each other to pieces. Student
parties, formerly centres of earnest dis-
cussion and healthy fun, became sordid
arenas of debauchery. Communist Party
academics who, for years, did not dare
to show their hand, now appeared boldlv/
in print and on platforms again.” I
Whether the sex and sectarianism dis
cussed by Dr Knopfelmacher can b
causally linked with the campaign t
destroy the anti-Communist studen
radicalism (seen in the work of young
men such as the late Bill Thomas) is still
I believe, open to doubt. But Dr Knop.
felmacher makes out a persuasive case,
The very least that can be demonstrated
by reference to the relevant publications
and to leading people in the ALP Club
is that there was an upswing in promis-
cuity in ALP and Left-wing student
circles, that an outbreak of sectarianism
occurred which disturbed responsible
undergraduates, including Rodney Allen,
the President of the University Rational-
ist Society, who went around trying toi
stop it, that these coincided with a decline!
in anti-Communist radicalism, that thef
Left welcomed this. |
The sectarian campaign was noted by]
Professor James McAuley in “Prospect”,
No. 2, 1964. But I should like to quote
as testimony a letter in “Nation” (May 15,
1965) by Mr. Ray Evans, a prominent!
member of the ALP and a former presi-i
dent of the Melbourne University ALP
Club. This letter offers supporting evi-
dence that many of the things described!
in the “Twentieth Century” article did
take place. Mr Evans writes: “During
the winter and spring of that year (1962)
there was at Melbourne University an
outbreak of sectarianism which I remem-
ber as extraordinary in its intensity . . .
However, let us look at the sex angle:
‘Farrago,’ during the second term of
1963, was . . . nihilist and amoral. A
subsequent ‘Farrago’ (August 3, 1964)
defending these issues editorially, said:
These ‘Farragos’ contain several pieces (
on such socially significant topics as pre-,
marital intercourse, contraception, strip-'
tease shows and female impersonators.
There are two tasteful nudes, Chloe and
another woman. There is strong criticism
of a number of University staff mem-
bers.”
One issue of “Farrago” which “un-
mercifully guyed” Dr Knopfelmacher’s
talk on the Profumo affair also carried an
interesting layout on page 3.
A contemporary painting of The
Crucifixion was juxtaposed against a
photo of a lavatory. The latter photo
was coupled with a quote from “King
Lear”. This particular issue led to pro-
tests from the heads of the four affiliated
religious colleges and a request from the
SRC that the editor resign.
Mr. Evans continues: “I think there is
some room for argument about the inter-
pretations which have been advanced by
Dr Knopfelmacher. I reluctantly came to I
the conclusion in July, 1964, that Knop-
felmacher’s interpretation was at least |
partly true.”
If the Professorial Board and “Nation”


had wanted to further investigate whether
the views expressed by Dr Knopfelmacher
in “Twentieth Century” are so eccentric
and dishonorable, they could have re-
ferred to an article in “Prospect” No. 2,
1964, by the poet and critic and reader in
English at Melbourne University, Vincent
Buckley. There is no need, surely, to press
the view that in academic circles through-
out Australia Vincent Buckley is re-
spected as a man of integrity and intelli-
gence. Mr. Buckley, both as undergradu-
ate and lecturer, knows Melbourne Uni-
versity well. His comment on the Knop-
felmacher article: “Not one of the score
or so Catholics whom I have heard men-
tion it is prepared to endorse it without
severe criticism. Several of them feel, as
I do, that Dr Knopfelmacher is in a
position of a physician who has very per-
ceptively located the disease and pointed
out its extent but diagnosed it wrongly.
His mistake is that he assimilates all
activities to ‘Politics’ and sees all timidi-
ties, weaknesses of will, failures of nerve,
not only having a political consequence
but having a political motivation.”
So the article, which is considered in
Sydney to be so wild and nasty as to
|Stop appointment of its author to a posi-
tion for which he is academically quali-
fied, is considered by Vincent Buckley,
who witnessed the events the article
allegedly describes, to have “very per-
ceptively located the disease and pointed
out its extent.” (Mr Buckley, like Senator
iMcManus, also claims that Dr Knopfel-
macher has been the victim of vicious
attack.)
There are, of course, a number of
other and related issues taken up by Dr
Knopfelmacher in his celebrated article.
Perhaps some of them disturb the Pro-
fessorial Board and “Nation,” and per-
haps 1 may be permitted to say that I
have examined every charge made in the
article and that I have been able to dis-
cover evidence to support each one. Even
with regard to the accusation that expres-
sions of relief were heard around Uni-
versity House in Easter, 1962, when Bill
Thomas was tragically killed (a charge,
of course, most difficult to demonstrate),
I know two senior academics, one of
whom at least has been in frequent pub-
lic disagreement with Dr Knopfelmacher,
who claim that this accusation is basically
justified: both are willing to testify on
these observations.
I do not claim that this and the other
evidence “proves” beyond doubt all that
Dr Knopfelmacher w'rote in “Twentieth
Century” in that fatal autumn of 1964;
but surely it shows that he had a case;
that there is serious evidence to back
up at least major parts of that case; that
his views are not ridiculous nor dishonor-
able; that the “Twentieth Century”
article cannot be used to excuse the most
blatant act of academic injustice in our
recent history.
PLAIN ENGLISH
The Lynching Inquiry
“T'he Sydney Morning Herald”
sprang to the defence of academic
freedom last week in an editorial which
said in effect that the most gross vio-
lation of academic freedom in many
years should be forgotten.
The occasion for the editorial was
the proposal that a Select Committee
of the NSW Upper House inquire into
the Knopfelmacher scandal. “The
“Sydney Morning Herald” took the
opportunity to sum up the issues in-
volved in the case and to oppose any
Parliamentary Inquiry. The summing
up was a classic of evasion. The whole
affair was badly handled, it said (it
meant there was a political campaign
involving defamation, procedural
irregularities, and the violation of
academic values); everyone makes
mistakes, it said (it meant the Pro-
fessorial Board allowed itself to be
stampeded by the “Peace Professors”
into rejecting a brilliant lecturer whose
political views were offensive to them);
the University can be relied on to cor-
rect its faults, it said (even though its
decisions are made by Professors whom
“The Sydney Morning Herald” quite
reasonably described as “politically
prejudiced”, “pusillanimous” and “an-
xious for a quiet life”). It all sounded
like a sheriff explaining that the mob
which had just lynched an innocent
man would behave better next time
and nothing should be done about it.
(“He was only a nigger”?) The best
part of the joke was when Professor
D. McCallum and Mr O. Harries
wrote a letter of protest to “The Sydney
Morning Herald”, the editor replied
briskly: “Do they want a Select Corn-
mittee of Inquiry or not? We don’t”
as if they had not been pointing out
that, whether you want a Select Com-
mittee or not, “The Sydney Morning
Herald” had completely misunderstood
and confused all the issues involved,
As for a Select Committee, it would
certainly be better if the University
Senate, which at the time of writing
is preparing to meet, were to appoint
its own committee of inquiry. But if it
does not, are we to do nothing to ex-
pose a violation of academic freedom?
“The Sydney Morning Herald” thought
the idea of “professors being summon-
ed to be cross-examined on how they
voted” absurd and dangerous which
is true but irrelevant since the current
proposal is that the committee inquire
into a political campaign in Sydney
University, not a Professorial Board’s
vote. But the basic point is that if Par-
liamentary action is the only way in
which the public can establish how
academic values have been violated in
a publicly maintained institution, then
it should be taken. If it is not taken, at
least we should recognise that there
has been gross betrayal of academic
freedom and not use a slogan of aca-
demic freedom to avoid facing the facts
about Sydney University.
The Missing Reform
Mow that the NSW Government has
introduced its Bill to abolish jury
trials in motor accident cases, there is
little point in canvassing again the
arguments that the abolition of juries
will not ensure speedier or cheaper ad-
ministration of justice but that it will
ensure the reintroductoin of outmoded
legalistic principles of assessing liability
which are so dear to judges.
But the debate has been needlessly
confused by the Attorney-General’s
announcement that his proposals will
enable judges to make interim awards
to motor accident victims within three
months. This will relieve victims of
worry on how to pay medical bills and
on how to survive while waiting for
final judgments. This would be a
laudable and overdue reform. There
is one shortcoming, however. The
Bulletin has combed through the Bill
and can find no reference to this matter
whatsoever. It simply is not there. But
in any case, even if the Attorney-
General does correct this omission, it
would still be no justification for the
abolition of the jury system. There
is no apparent reason why those who
want or need it should not have the
right to seek an interim award from a
judge, while the rest retain the right to
wait for a jury trial,
This, however, seems unlikely to in-
fluence the Government, which appears
determined to abandon the tradition
of almost all the common law world
and follow the unedifying example of
England where the abolition of juries
in accident cases may well be one of
the main reasons why the standard of
the English Bar and of the administra-
tion of English justice has declined so
badly.


LETTERS
Dr K.
SIR. Might I point out what seems
to be a piece of patent dishonesty in
your “Plain English” article on the Knop-
felmacher matter? (8., Nov. 27.)
As Brian Buckley reports two pages
previously, Senator Gortan, with more
wisdom than almost anyone else taking
part in this controversy, carefully quali-
fied his final sentence: “If that is true . . .
that would appear to have been done for
other than academic reasons for
political reasons. If this refusal has
taken place as the result of . . .” By
removing these qualifications and baldly
quoting him as saying: “1 would imagine
that the academic community and the
public would seek to redress”, you
have distorted his meaning in a manner
rather typical of your treatment of this
whole matter. If, as reported, Sir John
Eccles described the Professorial Board’s
action as “a revolting injustice”, the best
explanation in the circumstances is
probably that, as has happened with
many eminent men before him, he made
an unguarded comment based on news-
paper accounts. As Senator Gorton
appears to know and Sir John should
know, appearances, however convincing,
often do not accurately convey the truth.
In your “Plain English” you imply
that universities should always follow the
recommendations of heads of depart-
ments in making appointments. For
excellent reasons, some of them related
to academic freedom, as you should
know if you feel competent to comment
on this matter, this is not the practice
in good universities. Brian Buckley sees
fit to describe the “majority of the Pro-
fessorial Board” as “both incompetent
and gutless”. To apply these epithets to
a group of men who, as you and Mr
Buckley both know very well, are simply
not able, for quite obvious reasons, to
say publicly why they acted as they did
and thus attempt to justify their decision
is surely a despicable action, on his part
and yours. May I suggest that you
should both apologise.
Dr D. W. CROWLEY
Director,
Department of Adult Education.
University of Sydney (NSW).
[l. There is no doubt about Senator
Gorton’s meaning. He has stated in the
Senate, without qualification: “The Pro-
fessorial Board of the University of Syd-
ney acted in an unprecedented way and
one must be left with a very uneasy feel-
ing that this Board acted in that way for
reasons other than academic reasons.”
2, By what totally groundless intui-
tion does Dr Crowley see fit to describe
Sir John Eccles’ comment as “un-
guarded”? Has Dr Crowley discussed the
matter with Sir John Eccles, as The
Bulletin has done? It seems unlikely.
Perhaps Dr Crowley owes Sir John an
apology.
3. Is Dr Crowley serious when he
states that the members of the Profes-
sorial Board cannot say publicly why they
acted as they did? Why can’t they? Pro-
fessor May and Professor Alexander did
not hesitate to attack Dr Knopfelmacher
even before the final decision was made.
The Bulletin has no intention of apolo-
gising to people who engaged in an
academic lynching.—Editor.]
Fulbright's Arithmetic
SIR.—In his article “Clueing up Ful-
bright” (8., Dec. 4), Alan Reid com-
ments on Senator Fulbright’s disparaging
observation that Australia’s contingent of
a thousand troops in Vietnam was very
small in relation to the United States’
160,000. He goes on: “Reminded gently
that on a population basis this represen-
ted a contribution roughly comparable
with that of the US, Fulbright maintain-
ed a dignified and unenthusiastic silence.”
Possibly the distinguished Senator’s sil-
ence was due to his performing some
mental arithmetic. Was the population
of the United States really 1900 million?
In that case, might concern about the)
enormous hordes of Chinese manpower'
be falsely based? Or was the population
of Australia a puny 1.2 million? How
could demographers and statisticians!
even in a small country, make errors or
such magnitude?
More probably the Senator’s failure to
reply was due to astonishment at his in-
formant’s appalling capacity for self-
delusion. Perhaps the magnitude of the
US commitment in Vietnam would be
placed in better perspective by pointing
out that a “comparable contribution” by
Australia would be 10,000 servicemen in
Vietnam now, rising to possibly double
that number over the next twelve months,
Who needs “clueing up”?
R. B. SCOTTOM
7 urramurra (NSW).
ABOLISHING THE U.S.
PRESIDENCY
80 Years Ago: December 12, 1885
W E have always held the view that
for the Government of the United King-
dom or of a British colony a Monarch or
a Governor is as superfluous as a fifth
wheel to a coach. There is no single
function performed by the Queen of
England or by the Governor of New South
Wales that could not be more satisfactorily
performed if no place existed for either
officer in either Constitution. The Ameri-
cans, too, have already discovered that
a President is an entirely redundant
official, in whose hands lies a power for
ill which should be confided to no single
man and whose election periodically
confuses the whole State machinery. The
result is that it is proposed to abolish
both the Presidency and the Senate as
"monarchical rags". But even granting
that a colonial Governor is an absolute
essential that, without him, anarchy
would quickly supersede law—where is
the necessity for obtaining one from
England? Suppose that on his arrival,
seven years ago. Lord Augustus Loftus
had gone to sleep a feat which some
colonists were rude enough to suggest
that he actually did—and left our shores,
how much worse off would we be?
Poor Mother England
SlR. —May I, an Englishwoman enjoy-
ing the hospitality of Australia, reassure,
through your columns, any Australians
who are nervous about the dastardly
plot to take over their minds and policy
revealed by Dr P. L. Boyle-Smith (8.,
Nov. 20)? Britain has enough on her
plate already without getting involved
with Scientology, the Mavis Bramston
Show, White Australia, the Opera House,
the wharfies and Strine. Whether Dr
Boyle-Smith and his colleagues (Fortes-
cue - Brown, Cholmondeley - Jones and
Upther-Creek?) like it or not, the heir
to the throne of the United Kingdom
and Australia is still news and people,
many of them, regrettably without
hyphenated names, like to read about
him, the snobs. One’s withers are wrung
for the lacerated feelings of those noble
Aussies roughing it in Britain who have
to stomach such nauseating sentimen-
tality. Lesser men would have packed
it in and returned home long ago, pos-
sibly to “give some stable thought to the
welfare of Australia”.
In spite of Dr Boyle-Smith and his
colleagues, most Britons persist in liking
Australians, admiring Australia, hoping
to visit it and envying the Prince ol
Wales his stay here. Far from regard-
ing his visit as some kind of favor to
Australia, most people think the trip
will do the lad a world of good. No
doubt poor old parasitic Mother England
will continue to gather to her ample if
unappreciated bosom many disgruntled
scions of her crumbling Commonwealth
fold and treat them just like Britons. Let
us hope that Dr Boyle-Smith will carry
on the battle against such cruel practice
and that the outsize chip on his shoulder
will not prevent him getting through the
door of Australia House to collect his
mail.
BARBARA PICK
South Yarra {Vic.),


NO FIXED TERM
TY S
FOt unmet un /7*
Sir
NO FIXED lERM means your investment plu*
dividend is readily available for withdrawal. Your
Dividend is 6% p.a. net, (current rate) paid
twice yearly, there are NO brokerage or other
deductions.
Assets exceed £7 million. Write for brochure.
ST. GEORGE & CRONULLA
PERMANENT CO-OPERATIVE BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
J. S Ward, General Manager
HEAD OFFICE: Co-operation House, 36 Ormonde Pde.,
Hurstville, N.S.W. Phone 57 0201.
CITY OFFICE: 82 Elizabeth St. Phone 28 2801.
Mail to our nearest office.
Please send free comprehensive literature to . . .
NAME
ADDRESS - Rba 78ec
A Gossip Column
SIR. —ln reference to your article
“Conned in the Afternoon” (8., Nov 27),
I have of late become increasingly sick
a t the relegation of important events to
the fifth and sixth pages of what is
virtually becoming an evening gossip
column. I refer of course to the once
sensible newspapers the “Mirror” and
the “Sun”. I couldn’t agree more with
this article, but think that, because the
intelligentsia has been thinking along
these lines since the days of Lord North-
cliffe, it is about time someone did some-
thing to retrieve the honor of the Press
from the gutters of the gossip world.
Surely a third evening newspaper putting
gossip in its column and being free
from the “attributes” of sensationalism
would be as a breath of fresh air on the
minds of a news-starved public.
M. HESS
Auburn (NSW).
The Lazy Press
SIR. In his letter (8., Nov. 20) about
,my piece on the News Media Bill, Mr
H. L. Verry of the NZ Press Association
corrects me on one point of fact and
two or three of terminology, which I
acknowledge gratefully, but otherwise
adds substance to my arguments, for
the NZPA’s indifferent outside coverage
becomes not just inexplicable but in-
excusable.
If, as Mr Verry claims, there are three
men really working full-time for the
NZPA abroad, where is their news, their
coverage from an NZ angle? Does Mr
Verry consider quotation from items
concerning this country in the British
and Australian Press adequate coverage?
In just what way are his two men in
London distinguishable from Reuters
men? In just what way could their job
not be done by non-New Zealanders? A
television critic pointed out last year
that NZ Press representation abroad
hadn't improved since 1864: would Mr
Verry care to dispute that statement?
Leaving aside the places where the NZ
Press should be represented, would he
even claim that his two men in London
are enough?
On the critical issue of Asian coverage
I notice Mr Verry does not respond at
all. We have the assurance of a leading
NZ editor that we don’t really need it,
because so many Reuters men are New
Zealanders anyway. And I’m not really
surprised that Mr Verry didn’t produce
what should have been his ace, that the
NZPA recently sent a man to Asia. (An
apparently junior youngster on a brief
and doubtless inexpensive trip.) I imagine
that Mr Verry is as embarrassed as any-
one about the result: the Boy’s Own ad-
venture stories which purported to be
coverage of Vietnam and Malaysia. (One
actually began: “I helped burn a Viet-
cong village today . . if memory
serves, though the NZPA made a hasty
emendation of the line in some papers.)
I might have mentioned this, but there
always comes a point beyond which the
NZ Press defies belief; and I felt I had
reached the limit of my readers’ toler-
ance.
To the angry Mr Daly, I can only
say that NZ journalists are as good as
they are allowed to be. I was aiming
at the NZ Press, not NZ journalists. Of
course I agree that NZ journalists led
the fight against the News Media Bill,
just as two years ago they were in the
vanguard of the opposition to the
illiberal Indecent Publications Act. This
proves that there are NZ journalists of
intelligence and integrity. But I don’t
see that it proves anything either way
about mental lethargy, which afflicts
even the intelligent (and which, of
course, is my subjective impression).
Would Mr Daly argue that a lazy and
complacent Press doesn’t make for lazy
and complacent journalists? I should
hate to think from Mr Daly’s letter that a
self-congratulatory Press also makes for
self-congratulatory journalists. If the
Press here isn’t destructive of journalism
as a profession, why should NZ jour-
nalists have been prepared to welcome
Lord Thomson like a fresh breeze?
Maurice SHADBOLT
Auckland (NZ).


MAC BARENTS FINEST
• '-il
\ - m
i
The tobacco that keeps the
promise of its “bouquet”
/ V
&
jbi/IHV
vte'nd
Open a tin and the aroma of 6 different
tobaccos dominated by a golden ripe Virginia
promises you an extravagant smoking pleasure.
MAC BAREN’S
PLUMCAKE
Imported especially for the pipe-
smoking connoisseur. 2 oz. tin 8/11
SAIBB
Adelaide's Lost Generation
SIR. —I was more than a little astonished
to read in your journal Terry Stapleton’s
naive meanderings about Adelaide’s
“Lost Generation of Actors” (8., Nov.
20). With such an insular and amateur-
ish vision as he lays before us, it is small
wonder that the arts in Australia find the
battle so exhausting. In his plea for the
Adelaide acting coterie, to which he
belongs, Mr Stapleton ignores the basic
fact of life, that in our Anglo-Saxon
society, the theatre thespians are em-
phatically not “owed” a living. If he
wishes such a Philistine attitude to
change, he could bend his efforts to-
wards a lobby for a Federal Ministry of
Culture. (In bygone days this sort of
ideal would have received the fiercest
support from The Bulletin.)
This new Ministry would take a great
deal of the administrative weight from
the shoulders of the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust, which, by comparison with similar
overseas organisations, carries out its im-
possible task remarkably well. The
Trust and the South Australian Theatre
Company need all the constructive
propagation that comes their way, if the
Adelaide venture is to flourish. To put
an end to such inanities as “lost genera-
tions” would be an encouraging sign.
If we are to treat Mr Stapleton as a
responsible critic, I suggest he look “out-
wards” for reasonable comparisons, and
refrain from launching “parish pump”
boosters for his favorite actors. In the
context of the SATC, your critic, U
suggest, should be concerned with press]
ing for new attitudes in our theatre and
less orthodoxy, especially related to the
untapped mass audience.
A. F. ROBERTS
North Adelaide (SA ).
The Real Andorra
SIR. Andorra is not an “imaginary i
country” as your theatre critic, Madeleine
Armstrong, mistakenly believes (8., Nov,
6). In fact, Andorra is a tiny republic
wedged in between France and Spain,
as any gazetteer will tell you. Interest-
ingly, all Sydney theatre critics fell into
the same trap. The action of the play
reviewed might be imaginary, but the
country itself is a geographical reality,l
L. FEHER
Mosman (NSW).
Film Censorship
S!R. I was intrigued by Charles
Higham’s article, “Faces on the Cutting
Room Floor” (8., Nov. 20), and feel
that his list of banned films performs
a public service in the matter of censor-
ship. However, in the interests of
accuracy, my files of release dates in
the ’thirties tell a slightly different story.
“Dawn”, first film on Mr Higham’s list,
was released at Melbourne Regent on
April 13, 1929; “All Quiet on the
Western Front” (Regent, June 28, 1930);
“Young Woodley” (Anthenaeum, Janu-
ary 17, 1931); “The Woman Between”
(State, May 16, 1931); “White Cargo”
(Auditorium, September 26, 1931);
“Cape Forlorn” (Melba, same date);
“The Haunted Barn” (De Luxe, Novem-
ber 28, 1931). I saw most of these films
personally at the time, some in suburban
theatres.
Perhaps Mr Higham might now check
with his sources and discover whether
these and other films were actually
banned. Was it merely for a few weeks
while the censor got through his back-
log? For the sake of completeness, some
gangster films not on Mr Higham’s list
include: “Scarface” (1933), “Con-
demned Women”, “Reformatory” (1938),
“Behind Prison Gates”, “G-Men”, “1
Am Not Afraid”, “Women in Prison”
(1939). Similarly, “Tobacco Road”
(1941), “Cross of Lorraine” (1944),
“Garden of Eden” (1958). This group by
no means exhausts Higham’s omissions.
To assist the cause of film research,
would this not be a good opportunity for
all who have knowledge of banned films
to put their heads together and help
Higham produce a complete list?
WILLIAM J. HIGGINBOTHAM
Balwyn (Vic.).
Charles Higham writes:
The films Mr Higginbotham lists were


OPUS BOOKSHELF
SYSTEM
Brilliant treble and dis-
tortion-free bass reproduction is
assured by the remarkable Opus
radio amplifier, the heart of this
system. Speaker cabinets
each containing three speakers are
for vertical or horizontal setting.
Complete with record changer
TW 504 (not shown).
In!
il i ll 111 !!! !! >
II
mi mi
:;: i ;
Sk
mm
TLLEFUNK
4’P :
£
m
PRINCESS CONCERT STEREOGRAM
Designed to complement a modern home setting.
A s/w radiogram with a rich, full tone from an
outstanding amplifier section and six carefully
balanced and housed loudspeakers. Has a Scandina-
vian oil finish over selected walnut veneers.
f“«S>means a world of progress
For six decades Telefunken has led the field with
new achievements in the world of sound—2,ooo scientists
working in Telefunken laboratories maintain that lead. This
policy of progress and research gave the world the first
tape recorder and assures you of up-to-the-minute design
and lasting quality in all Telefunken products.
For comprehensive catalogues on radios, radio-
grams, tape recorders or record players, write to
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
W. C. WEDDERSPOON PTY. LTD.
193 Clarence Street. Box 3597, G.P.0., SYDNEY
W.A.: Musgroves Ltd., Perth. QLD.: Hendrix Electrix, Brisbane.
r* '« r- i Adahirlo Finnpv Brishane.
S.A.: Ernsmiths Ltd., Adelaide.
A.C.T.: David Jones, Canberra.
Finney Isles, Brisbane.
VIC.: Rekla-Electro Sound, Prahran.
banned originally and released on appeal
or on reconsideration. I indicated that
in some cases films were later released
at the top of the list and that the list
was only a selected one. But I was glad
of the titles of films not supplied to me
by exhibitors, many of whose lists are
only retrospective to 1940.
Eric Butler s Assurance
SIR. —I read your nasty little smear
article, “Un-Anglican Activities” (8.,
Nov. 27), with some amusement. I am
interested to learn that I am “the offi-
cially accredited correspondent for the
John Birch Society”. Also that I may find
that my “anti-Communist credit rating
has slipped”. It would be instructive to
learn how this conclusion was reached.
According to my opponents, my rating
has been going down over the years. But
they don’t really believe it. Thus their
continued hysteria.
The Rev. D. Pope's allegation at the
Melbourne Anglican Synod was that
League of Rights members were secretly
entering the churches to spread “anti-
Semitism”. Mr Pope was challenged in a
statement circulated by the League’s
Church Committee, to produce evidence
to substantiate this extraordinary allega-
tion. He has not done so. He refused
to meet the Church Committee, two of
whom are life-long Anglicans and Sunday
School teachers. He reluctantly agreed
to meet the chairman, a Methodist lay
preacher, but was unable to produce any
evidence to support his Synod allegation.
The seconder of Mr Pope’s motion on
“anti-Semitism” at the Synod informed
Mr Pope that he could not associate him-
self with his proposed comments about
League of Rights members. Unlike Mr
Pope, this reverend gentleman has atten-
ded League functions, subscribed to the
League's journal, been a personal friend
of my assistant National Director over
some years, and has been a visitor to my
home. Not one person rose at the Synod
to support Mr Pope’s allegations against
the League, or to provide any supporting
evidence. Not one member of the Synod
has come forward since to provide any
confirmation of the allegations. But a
number did object strongly to Mr Pope’s
suggestion in his. letter to members of
Synod that League members should be
treated as a type of moral leper and com-
pletely shunned. It is a pity you did not
quote this extract from Mr Pope’s letter.
Your readers would have found it most
revealing, and revolting.
If Mr Pope is prepared to allow him-
self to be used by other people to dis-
tribute to fellow-Anglicans the Com-
munist-recommended little hate booklet
by K. D. Gott, he is merely providing
further evidence of the same irrespon-
sibility he displays when he associates
with Communist-inspired “peace” move-
ments. Mr Pope is a tragic example of a
man permitting himself to be used by the
promoters of what the Americans call
“anti-anti-Communism”. The tactic of
terming effective anti-Communists an
embarrassment to genuine anti-Commun-
ists, people like those responsible for
“Dissent”, which published the Gott
booklet, has been exposed by Edward
Hunter, the eminent American expert on
psychological warfare. Unlike “Dissent”,
I have never had any of my publications
or writings recommended by the Com-
munist Press. May I suggest in conclu-
sion, Sir, that you continue to follow the
results of Mr Pope’s efforts amongst his
fellow-Anglicans, and then report. I can
assure you, and Mr Pope and his back-
ers, that there are some interesting de-
velopments ahead.
ERIC D. BUTLER
National Director,
The Australian League of Rights.
Melbourne (Vic.).


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Perth’s Depommified Festival
By DON LIPSCOMBE
In past years the Festival of Perth has
stepped on to the calendar of events
demurely. While the fare has been
good, the problem has been to persuade
people to sample it. This season organ-
isers have made sure that the Festival will
arrive with impact.
Last year Perth’s most outspoken
critic-advocate was Mr Max Harris, who,
as chairman of ABC television's “The
Critics”, slated the Festival as being too
“pommified” but acknowledged that it
“could be a prodigious national attrac-
tion”. This year, through good luck and
good management, the Festival has been
depommified and is now quite strongly
Australian in some of its best segments.
The programme, to be circulated
among 176,000 people, lists a swag of
Australian, Australasian, and even world
premieres. Perhaps the most newsworthy
will be the premiere of “A Break in
the Music” by Alan Seymour, who grew
up in East Fremantle. Seymour says it
will be different from his “One Day of
the Year”, and will be a “simple play
about ordinary people in simple situa-
tions”. The main character is the only
son in a Fremantle family with three
daughters (Seymour is the only son in
a family with five daughters).
Two other firsts come from overseas
•—first performance outside the Eastern
world of the Kalakshetra Dancers, a
company of 19 from Madras with folk
music and dance drama; and the Austral-
ian premiere of the Athens Drama
Company’s “Iphigenia in Aulia” and
“Lysistrata”.
Swain at the Clubs
"Moved and seconded: that out of current profit we
complete the Opera House and pay off the Harbor Bridge
for the exclusive use of members."
The line-up of music is impressive,
ranging from opera to singalong bush
ballads, more than 25 major presenta-
tions. Two works of the young Austra-
lian expatriate composer Malcolm Wil-
liamson will be presented for the first
time in this part of the world: his Con-
certo for Wind Quartet and Two Pianos
(eight hands) will bring together four
of Perth’s leading pianists; this was first
performed in England earlier this year in
honor of composer Alan Rawsthorne’s
60th birthday. Also, Williamson’s one-act
opera “The Happy Prince” will have its
first Australian airing, as will, on the
same programme, Gordon Crosse’s can-
tata “Meet My Folks!”, described wryly
as “a theme with relations”.
There will be a season of intimate
opera produced by Arnold Matters, a
“Pommy” migrant now in Adelaide, with
musical direction by Verdon Williams;
compositions by West Australians James
Penberthy, Trevor Jones (now of
Monash) and David Tunley; and English
works all the way from viol-and-harpsi-
chord Musica Antiqua and madrigal
singers to the avant-garde compositions
of Alexander Goehr, Harrison Birtwistle
and Richard Rodney Bennett played by
British composer-pianist Peter Maxwell
Davies.
The WA Symphony Orchestra also
will concentrate on British music and
with the 200-voice University of WA
Choral Society choir conducted by Pro-
fessor Frank Callaway, will present two
major choral works. Tenor David Galli-
ver and pianist Stephen Dornan will give
a series of lecture-recitals; the WA Bach
Society’s contribution will include thd
first Australian performance of Benja- 1
min Britten’s latest choral work, “Voices
for Today”, written for the UN’s 20tl
anniversary and given its premiere oo
October 24, simultaneously in London]
and New York. Organ audiences will
have a feast with Dr J. V. Peters and
Adelaide organist Derek Jolly. And the
London Symphony Orchestra, in Perth
primarily for the ABC subscription con-
cert season, will offer the Festival finale.
The New Zealand Opera Company
will present “Porgy and Bess”, and there
will be a folk song programme by Bris-
bane balladeer John Manifold with his
quartet The Bandicoots.
Traditional theatre will be slightly less
bold. Perth producer Edgar Metcalfe,
who last year so ably used the outdoor
Elizabethan replica, the New Fortune
Theatre, will use it again with “Romeo
and Juliet”, with Sydney players Helmut
Bakaitus and Rosmary Gerette in the title
roles. From London comes the Harold
Lang Voyage Theatre with “Macbeth in
Camera”, the company of four again
exploring and dramatising a production
of Macbeth, and presenting Christopher
Fry’s “A Sleep of Prisoners” in St
George’s Cathedral as it was on a
previous visit by the company to Perth.
Probably the most fascinating innova-
tion will be a pageant of sound and light,
“Son et Lumiere”, which despite its title
is as Australian as billy tea. The tech-
nique will be familiar to the European
culture-tourist and has been described as
a performance that conveys much the
same atmosphere as a military tattoo;
perhaps the more honest definition is that
“Son et Lumiere” is rather like a radio
“Look at it this way. You've lost a fortnight's pay
but the club's gained a sauna-bath and a new
dartboard."


dO-HONOd
M)-9Cd9 '9NIN3A3
MO-'XOOOIAW-GIW
&Q-3XVg 1 9NIN* OW
OOINO/d
MNfiS moa
■UHH
play with light. It is being written by
radio script-writer Allan Aldous about
events in West Australian history, and
will be set in Fremantle’s old asylum,
the State’s first prison.
This one is seen as wonderful stuff for
the children, as are the Australian pup-
pets, The Tintookies.
In the art section the Australian em-
phasis remains strong. The Festival has
secured the exhibition of Australian
photographs shown last year in Mel-
bourne, “Urban Woman”. But the high-
light will be artist Charles Blackman’s re-
turn from England to present his first
one-man show in the State. The WA Art
Gallery will have exhibitions of con-
temporary watercolors by American
artists and mediaeval pottery from Lon-
don's Guildhall. There will be the Esso
collection of Australian paintings, and a
Red Cross exhibition of international
children's art.
London art critic and writer Robert
Melville will judge the T. E. Wardle
Invitation Art Prize ... at 1000 dollars
this year, because the Festival of Perth
will straddle decimal changeover.
The Festival of Perth was put back a
month to run from January 28 to March
12 and dovetail more neatly with
Adelaide, and the two cities, plus Auck-
land, are planning to get together in
March to see if this rationalisation can
be taken a step or two further. For years
Perth has managed to balance its Festival
budget without a Commonwealth subsidy
(a sore point), but last year like a
badge of merit —it managed to finish
£5OOO in the red compared with
Adelaide’s £44,000 debit and the Edin-
burgh Festival's £98,000. This year, if
the massive publicity pays off as is hoped,
it might even make money and win
prestige.
ON TELEVISION
Propitious Project ’65
Tt is a propitious time, I hope, to begin
A a column on television. There have been
some encouraging signs in recent weeks
that the field of public affairs television
is opening up new possibilities for both
programme-makers and viewers. They
are, of course, only signs, and to the
frustrated writer or producer in the in-
dustry, or to the disappointed viewer,
they may not be anything more than
welcome relief from the tedium and
boredom which passes for most “serious”
television in Australia.
The signs come mainly from Project
’65, where Bob Raymond, in addition to
his own consistently high-level output, is
gathering around him some promising
young and independent producers and
writers. On Saturday, Sydney viewers
saw a repeat of Stefan Sargent’s “The
Australian Londoners” which was a joy
to watch not so much for the oppor-
tunity to see some successful Australians
indulging themselves in the laughable
masochism of self-imposed guilt, but for
the opportunity to see a remarkably pro-
fessional and self-assured piece of tele-
vision journalism.
I say “remarkably professional” be-
cause 28-year-old Sargent filmed, pro-
duced, wrote, researched, edited, dubbed
and sweated the idea through almost on
his own his wife was the intelligent
interviewer who allowed the subjects to
speak for themselves—with what most
film-makers in any other television crew
would regard as impossible equipment.
One of the features of the programme was
the careful attention to detail in camera
technique—the framing of Robert Help-
mann against the statues in his garden,
the positioning of Brett Whitely in his
studio—and in sound editing. Sargent’s
professionalism was the art which dis-
guises art.
The Sargent programme was valuable
also because it has demonstrated what
really did need demonstrating; that with
judicious selection and encouragement of
independent Australian producers locally
originated programmes can be bought
for no more —in this case less—than the
average American import. “The Aus-
tralian Londoners” cost TCN about
£lOOO. They have shown it twice; with
networking arrangements they will make
a profit on it and it may even be shown
a third time during the summer break.
An average American import from ABC,
CBS or NBC costs anything from £lOOO-
-
Solving the station’s cost problem is
one thing, of course; ensuring a reason-
able return to producers is another
but at least the point has been made.
Sargent has been overseas for two years
after working as a film-maker for some
five years in Sydney. Now he is back,
uncertain of what he is going to do with
himself, but with at least the promise of
some more programmes to come on Pro-
ject ’65. Next week some of his work
makes up part of Project ’6SV “Protest”
an hour of message and protest songs
interpreted on film by Sargent and 24-
year-old cameraman Bruce Wilson.
Originally conceived for “Bandstand”,
the programme shows the effects of its
doubtful parentage. The “Protest” songs
are with one or two exceptions not the
protest songs of the civil-rights move-
ment, or the pacifists, or the Vietnam
protesters. Even in the case of the excep-
tions the versions used are nearly all by
“pop” stars whose appeal is only to the
early teens and sub-teen markets. “Where
Have All the Flowers Gone?” for instance
is destroyed in a “pop” upbeat version.
Furthermore, the TCN-9 station man-
agement did not include some of the
more blatantly pacifist songs like “The
Young Recruit”, which had already been
prepared for the programme, and decid-
ed to omit some of the more pointed
scenes of violence and political comment.
Despite these weaknesses, and the gener-
al one that an hour seems' to be far too
long to see the same sort of treatment of
the songs film clips, zoomed-into stills
of riots, Mao Tse-tung, Menzies, and the
Bomb still, again, once more and
always mushrooming the programme
has moving moments and some of the
individual work is evidence of exciting
talent.
Another independent writer-producer-
editor-interviewer (it pays to be versa-
tile), 33-year-old John Abbott, has re-
turned from a tour of Europe and Project
’65 will show four of his programmes
next year. Together with another pro-
gramme by Stefan Sargent on the dis-
cotheque craze it will be part of Project
’6s’s plan to have a higher ratio of Aus-
tralian-produced programmes. This year
there have been 17 out of 46. Next year
the. plan is for 23 one every fortnight.
Bob Raymond has his own ideas for
using some of the network affiliates in
cities which show the programme (all
State capitals as well as country outlets)
to provide more local material. Network-
ing arrangements have allowed a pro-
gramme like Project ’65 to cut costs by
something like 80 per cent. They may
now contribute to broadening its local
content.
The ABC and other commercial chan-
nels are also making plans for 1966 in
the fields of public affairs. I plan to dis-
cuss them in the next column.
SAM LIPSKI


THEATRE
Who’s Afraid of
Popularity?
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? Edward
Albee. Old Tote Theatre, Sydney.
nPuE Old Tote revival of “Who’s Afraid
-*•' of Virginia Woolf?”, fifteen months
after its outstandingly successful first
production, raises once again the puzzling
question: why is the play so popular?
Diana Trilling, the American critic, in
a long essay entitled “The Riddle of
Albee's ’Who’s Afraid of Virginia
Woolf?’ ” states the problem succinctly:
“It is a play, after all, that has few of
the obvious attributes of a pleasing
spectacle. At best its characters make
difficult company. And much of its
meaning is obscure, so that we might
expect an audience to be more bewildered
than satisfied.”
Part of Mrs Trilling’s ingenious
solution to the riddle is that “Who’s
Afraid?’’ offers reassurance to audiences
because it shows them people who are
supposed to be better than themselves —
university professors behaving much
worse, and so enables them to feel less
guilty about their own misdemeanors.
She thinks also that the play is com-
pletely nihilist: “Ugliness and emptiness
are the way things are and are bound to
be.” But even this she sees as reassuring
to audiences because, in her view, it is
the message of most modern art: it is
what people have come to expect and so
it does not shock them.
Albee himself answered the charge
of nihilism, which was made against him
after an earlier play, “The American
Dream”, as follows:
“The play is an examination of the
American Scene, an attack on the sub-
stitution of artificial for real values in
our society, a condemnation of com-
placency, cruelty, emasculation and
vacuity; it is a stand against the fiction
that everything in this slipping land of
ours is peachy-keen.”
I think Albee is doing something very,
similar in “Who's Afraid?” But it is a
more complex play and a more am-
biguous one. The ambiguity lies in the
attitude of the dramatist to the characters
of George and Martha, which he does
not make sufficiently clear. If, like Diana
Trilling, you find all four characters both
unpleasant and unreal, then of course
the play will appear as a grim picture of
unrelieved ugliness. But if, like me, you
think that the dramatist intends a sharp
contrast between the empty ambitious-
ness and dishonesty of Nick and Honey
and the struggling, passionate misery of
George and Martha, who may be lost
but at least are still trying to be honest
and human, then you will not think the
play is saying “life is nothing”.
Alexander Hay’s new production, while
substantially the same as the original
one by John Clark, has many different
emphases which seem to me to tip the
balance of the play towards nihilism.
Jacqueline Kott’s Martha, particularly
in the first act, is far more strident and
overstrained than she was in the original
production, so that she commands less
sympathy. Similarly, Alexander Hay’s
George is colder and more detached, less
tormented and therefore seemingly less
justified in his ruthless punishment of
Martha. Wendy Blacklock’s Honey, on
the other hand, is more appealing, and
this makes George's treatment of her
seem too cruel.
Tn the final scene, as I read it, after
the exorcism gentleness returns. But in
this production George is unrelenting,
cold, his voice staccato and his move-
ments stiff, and nothing but exhaustion
has followed the long night’s ordeal.
But, leaving aside questions of in-
terpretation. let me say that this pro-
duction has four carefully polished and
exactly timed performances which are
a pleasure to watch. Alister Smart, the
only new member of the cast, is very
good as the tough, shrewd but morally
obtuse Nick.
Unlike Diana Trilling, I do not think
a play is necessarily suspect just because
it is popular. Perhaps audiences see in
it, among other things, a witty and lively
discussion of problems of personal
relationships which they recognise from
their own experience.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
St Martin’s Fare
Dear Me, The Sky Is Falling. Spigelgass.
St. Martin’s Theatre, Melbourne.
Tn Melbourne, many theatre-lovers take
A unto themselves one theatre, for-
saking all others. Consider the romances
of St Martin’s and Emerald Hill with
their respective patrons. The twain
might occasionally meet on neutral
ground like the Union Theatre, but it is
unlikely that a St Martini would attend
Emerald Hill, and unthinkable that an
Emerald Hillian would visit St Martin’s.
The Emerald Hillians (who are hope-
lessly outnumbered) sit in their converted
church watching Spartan productions of
Brecht, lonesco and Becket with the
ardor of acolytes, while the bourgeois at
Sth Yarra relax in deliciously comfort-
able surroundings, deigning to be amused
by theatrical titbits.
By choosing theatres rather than plays,
both groups deny themselves pleasurable
experiences. For not all Emerald Hill’s
productions are solemn and portentous,
and St Martin’s frequently surprises with
a first-class production of a play by
O’Neill, Anouilh or Sartre. Pinter’s “The
Caretaker” was performed by the com-
pany (in thin disguise at a city theatre)
and remains the most satisfactory produc-
tion of a contemporary play Melbourne
has seen in recent years.
But the current offering would con-
firm the worst suspicions of any red-
bearded playgoer. Mr Spigelgass’s com-
edy is uninventive and unfunny; an opin-
ion I hold to in defiance of the loud
laughter and long applause it received on
opening night. Its flavor and philosophy
are from the “Reader’s Digest”, with the
most unforgettable Jewish momma
marrying her Stevensonian Democrat
daughter to an upright Eisenhower
Republican, helped by a condensed
course in psychoanalysis. She also routs
an arty, Emerald Hill-type youth to the
considerable relish of the audience.
Spigelgass who wrote “A Majority
of One” —seems determined to vindicate
the worst forms of momism. The play
has no swear words and only one piece of
innuendo, and its stance in favor of the
suburban virtues makes Spigelgass seem
a pseudonym for Norman Vincent Peale,
Jeff Warren’s production met St Mar-
tin’s usual professional standards, and
Max Bruch, Frances Einhorn, Sheila
Florance, Lyn Wright, Elliot Cairns and
Macky Smatana were all more than
adequate to the task. Paul Kathner’s
sets, however, were not.
PHILIP ADAMS
FILMS
Stale Red
Herrings
Bunny Lake Is Missing. Director, Otto
Preminger. State Theatre, Sydney.
I Saw What You Did. Director, William
Castle. Victory Theatre, Sydney.
As depressing as a comedy that doesn’t
make you laugh is a thriller that
fails to thrill. Two of these turn up this
week; and since in both cases the direc-
tor is also the producer, Messrs Premin-
ger and Castle must take the blame.
Preminger, who is rapidly qualifying
as the greatest bore in the film business,
has at least assembled an impressive-
sounding cast for his film, which has
the sort of puzzling, improbable plot that
would have delighted the Hitchcock of
“The Man Who Knew Too Much” days.
A woman leaves her small child at a
new kindergarten; when she goes to
collect her the child is missing and no-
body at the school will admit having ever
seen her. The evidence given by the dis-
tracted mother is confused and contra-
dictory, and the police begin to wonder
if the child ever did exist except in her
mother’s disordered imagination.
Preminger takes us through the in-
vestigation with Teutonic thoroughness,
dwelling on each point until its implausi-
bilities are glaringly apparent, dragging,
meaningless red herrings across the trail
and never once creating any real concern
in the predicament of those involved.
There is a cold lack of humanity in the


I
m
m
SONY SUPREME
SOUND SYSTEM
SETS HIGHER STANDARDS
IN SOUND RECORDING
The SONY TC-500A tape recorder is the ultimate
for the musically sophisticated. With high
fidelity it covers the full sound spectrum audible
to the most sensitive and trained ear. Further
features to set the TC-500A apart are: 4 track,
stereophonic and monophonic recording, sound
on sound. 2 infinite baffle speaker systems.
Separate controls for mix recordings. 2 VU
meters, 2 probe microphones, comprehensive
accessories. PRICE 204 gns. If you want easy
portability you might prefer the TC-200 at
142 gns. See and hear SONY at your retailer.
SONY
RESEARCH MAKES THE DIFFERENCE
Distf.f Jacoby, Mitchell & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne.
film, quite unlike the deliberate unreality
of “North By North-West” or “Mirage”;
its visual drabness lowers the interest
even further.
Why did Laurence Olivier accept the
stock part of a Gideon-style policeman?
No doubt the National Theatre pays off
more in prestige than in hard cash, and
outside work is necessary, but he must
have better offers. He coasts effortlessly
through the role, earning his money by
srelying on his complete professionalism,
[but style and vitality are evidently re-
served for Chichester.
William Castle’s film, which is shoddy
even by his cheapjack standards, deals
with a couple of teenagers whose idea
of a jolly evening is to ring up random
telephone numbers and say mysteriously:
“I know who you are and I saw what
you did.” By ill luck they do this to a
gentleman who has just finished stab-
bing his wife and who naturally sets off,
kitchen knife in hand, to remove the
supposed witnesses stopping only to
despatch an amorous neighbor on the
way.
Here again there’s a surprising piece of
casting, with Joan Crawford as the in-
convenient neighbor. Since she certainly
need the money, it’s hard to say
fwhy she accepted an unrewarding role in
‘this umpteenth-rate melodrama. She’s
evidently provided her own clothes, for
, she’s much more expensively dressed
than anyone else; her choice for a quiet
country evening at home is a black after-
five dress, a complicated hairdo involving
it least four hours under the dryer, and
a jewelled bib extending from collarbone
to navel.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
ART
Facelift
Australian Painting. Current Affairs Bul-
letin. Vol. 37, No. 1. 9d.
An excellent essay on Australian Paint-
ing celebrates the first issue of the
“Current Affairs Bulletin” in a new
format for a modestly increased price.
Its author is unnamed, but it is not hard
to detect Sydney critic Elwyn Lynn in
its prickly urbanity and abundance of
lucidly sifted information.
For the most part the essay outlines
overseas attitudes to Australian Painting.
Generally, Australian Painting has made
a better impression than anyone here
would have expected. Nolan, though out-
side the main international stream, has
achieved world acceptance, which the
CAB writer believes he has earned. Even
so, the impression has been made by
individuals, in or out of the main-
stream, not by an Australian style of
painting. Our painters are not, it is
argued, well enough “grounded in
tradition or the art of their time” to
develop a collective originality,
i We are, too, given a personal assess-
ment of the worth of Australian Painting.
It is vital and adventurous. Proportion-
ately, it has more “painters on the
threshold of excellence than elsewhere”.
There seems no cause to quarrel with
that.
BILL HANNAN
TELEVISION
"wide World
VTiewers with a reasonable appetite for
T seeing how the rest of the world lives
must be very dissatisfied with television,
which is clearly orientated towards fiction
with little or no relation to fact. Most
distant from the truth are those ancient
movies which show a Hollywood view of
foreign parts, in which any native east of
Suez is likely to wear a Chinese coolie’s
hat and dance the hula in leisure time.
Such modern series as “Adventures in
Paradise”, and adventures supposedly
set anywhere on earth, reveal only that
some Americans still have a very scant
knowledge of the world they live in, or
of the world they guess other people be-
lieve they live in. Parents and teachers
might well wonder what useful scrap of
knowledge children might learn from
Bomba the Jungle Boy who “has got hold
of the Lost Idol of the Watusi”, for
heaven’s sake, “a valuable treasure sought
after by two groups of people”.
However, this state of affairs is not all
television’s fault. The medium has tried
to bring educators before the cameras,
including travellers whose slides rival only
Mrs Everage’s for sheer idiocy, and
schoolish lecturers who make the viewers
suffer for the little children who are ex-
pected to learn from such dull, uninspir-
ing people. The higher academic’s idea
of a thoroughly prepared half-hour pro-
gramme is to “um” and “er” through
some disjointed notes, and to show one
or two still pictures, and perhaps draw a
diagram. Television cannot be blamed
for this. Only education can.
Another way of showing how others
live is the amateur’s movie travelogue,
as evidenced by film taken by a man the
ABC seems to dote on, one Johnny
Morris, who takes his viewers through
Italy or Spain with such wry comments
as, “Ho hum, time to press on again to
Malaga, but what’s this?” A donkey is
shown in the middle of the road. “Try-
ing to make a donkey out of me, hey?”
Facing these difficulties, and those of
getting enough suitable film from over-
seas, or from their own teams sent
abroad, three of Sydney’s channels are
providing reasonable material for those
who want to know about the world
beyond Petticoat Junction, Mayberry, or
Hazel’s kitchen. Channel 9’s weekly
“Project ’65” series is the most satisfac-
tory in my view, one hour of film in
which one is likely to see Rhodesia
through British eyes, and a very different
glimpse to that given so often by the
propagandists who have infested “Letters
to the Editor” columns recently, or our
own Gold Coast once over impolitely.
Channel 7 weighs in with a scrappier
programme called . “Seven Days”, with
many local interviews on burning sub-
jects, as it was originally proposed, but
which often wanders to distant parts of
the world. The ABC, which one would
suppose to be the most dedicated to the
interests of the minority, is just that
despite its announced policy of joining
the ratings chase. In a weekly “Impact” it
usually shows quality film of interest to
those who sometimes tire of “The Fugi-
tive”. The ABC’s “Four Corners”, though
far from lively these days, occasionally
gets to at least one corner of the world.
And on Sunday afternoons are screened
bits from three of English television’s in-
quiring shows.
In the circumstances, a total of five
hours is not bad. It could be extended, at
low cost, by individual speakers who
could “take you there”, with good stills
and lively talk. But the age of the racon-
teur is past, just when it is most needed
for the television medium.
DALE MILLER


BOOKS
Gulliver in Sarsaparilla
By LEONIE KRAMER
Four Plays. Patrick White. Eyre and
Spottiswoode. 58s.
»/\nce I almost wrote a play,” says the
Young Man in “The Ham Funeral”,
“in which the situations were too subtle
to express.” The same could hardly be
said of the Young Man’s creator, whose
plays can certainly not be convicted of
over-subtlety or inarticulateness. Super-
ficially, these four plays appear to have
little in common with each other. They
differ widely in action and setting, and
each play makes a quite individual
dramatic statement. Yet all have certain
important ingredients in common. All
are concerned with the quality of life,
and in particular with the quality of love,
and all except “A Cheery Soul” relate
this explicitly to artistic expression.
In “The Ham Funeral”, the would-be
poet seeks life on the upper level of his
existence with an ideal woman who is his
own creation, and he seeks it in the base-
ment with Mrs Lusty, the devouring rep-
resentative of passion and the flesh.
Neither provides the answer he is seek-
ing, and he leaves the play without
having proved the truth uttered by the
landlord, “This table is love ... if you
can get to know it”. In “The Season at
Sarsaparilla”, love has more varied mani-
festations. The play is raucous with the
barking of stray dogs in pursuit of a
bitch. One of the three suburban houses
we are shown contains a young woman
in an advanced stage of pregnancy; one
a couple worn down to boredom by
twenty years of married life; and one
Nola Boyle, a youthful Mrs Lusty, and
a slave to sensuality. In “A Cheery Soul”,
love, in the form of the overpowering
Christian charity of Miss Docker,
generates hatred. Miss Docker’s per-
sistent good works are a product of her
PATRICK WHITE
own frustrations, and they produce
frustrations in others. The Custances
with their frank sensuality are her
victims; so is old Mrs Lillie with her frail
memories of married life; so, too, are
Mr and Mrs Wakeman—he for his tepid
sanctity, she for her adoration of the
god in him. These different forms of
love are poisoned by Miss Docker’s deter-
mined grasping devotion. In “Night on
Bald Mountain” we are again shown love
poisoned, this time by the intellectual
desiccation of Professor Sword. His
alcoholic wife is frustrated in her affec-
tions. Stella, her warm-hearted sympa-
thetic nurse, is in love with her own
father. Sword is in love with himself.
And the supreme lover of Bald Mountain
is the filthy goatherd, Miss Quodling, who
is in love with her goats (except when
they are in love with each other), and
who through them comprehends the
universe.
One can go farther and say that a
central preoccupation of all four playsj
is the contrast between sterility and
fertility. To passionate Mrs Lusty,
Lusty seems dead even before he cheats’
her by actually dying. Sarsaparilla, tora
by the frenzied yelping of breeding dogs,
is yet sterile at heart. Its fertility i s
apparent, not real. Nola Boyle, though
vibrant with sensuality, is barren. Fertile
Marie Knott is intellectually impover-
ished (to say the least of it). The Pogsons
are mere automata, repeating the same
actions and words every day of their
lives. Julia Sheen, the brittle tart, the
mistress of a rich “sugar daddy”, kills 1
herself when she becomes pregnant. So
that while Sarsaparilla abounds in sights
and sounds of fertility they merely draw
attention to its fundamental sterility.!
They create not a sense of the fullnessi
of life but a sense of disgust at its|
brutal animality. Barrenness possesses!
the stage again in “A Cheery Soul”. Miss'
Docker is a spinster. The Custances are
childless. The inhabitants of the old
woman’s home are withered and brittle.
Mr Wakeman’s religion is an affair of
arid platitudes and stuttering ineptitudes.
Miss Docker’s attempt to woo the lovei
of a dog is frustrated when the dog lifts
his leg on her (one of White’s more
refined touches!). In “Night on Bald
Mountain” the dogs of Sarsaparilla are
replaced by a herd of lusty goats. The
sterility here is concentrated in the dry
brain and contracted heart of Professor
Sword.
Up to a point, White succeeds in
identifying quite precisely the quality of
life led by his characters, though he
seems to me to be surprisingly unsuccess-
ful with his would-be artists in “The
Ham Funeral” and “A Season at Sarsa-
parilla”. Particularly telling are his
satirical attacks upon suburban uniform-
ity, the routine of domestic life, and
the self-centred selflessness of Miss
Docker. But the ideas his plays express
lie always upon their surface. In spite
of the symbolism, the theatrical devices,
the stage-direction comments and the
occasional enigmatic aphorisms, the plays
remain philosophically somewhat naive.
They are too categorical. Body and soul,
mind and spirit, passion and intellect,
puritanism and animalism, fertility and
sterility are in themselves barren and
unpersuasive concepts unless they emerge
from the complexities of convincing
character studies. And there is not to my
mind one convincing full character study
in any of these four plays. Ideas come
first, people second. (So they do in
many of Eugene O'Neill’s plays, but his
handling of dialogue and situations is
so much more skilful than White’s that |
one can be persuaded, at least for a
time, to accept them.)
It is to me quite astonishing that the
Jungle
“Dead, all dead.”
I didn’t believe
That taut spinster in her bones and silk
Parasol slanting on an icy shoulder.
She said
Nothing could ever retrieve
The life that had been lost down there,
in the sucked
Emptiness of the drained marsh, the
boulder
Stiff with moss
And the crushed lianas coiling like muscled
snakes
Waiting to pounce and devour.
I thought nothing of her
Until the grass
Cried out a song I could not shut,
the rocks
Mounted with a drab power
Talking of their conqueror,
And I knew the jungle a thing
Like a stifling shroud or the pelt of a
dead animal
Swathing the sick soil
Devoid of love and meaning
Out of its mouth a tongue
Bitten by the teeth of night,
a tall
Flower-serpent spiralling coil on coil
Up, up, into the icy tomb of morning.
CHARLES HIGHAM


man who created Theodora Goodman,
Voss and most particularly Himmel-
farb, should in his plays present charac-
ters so flat and pallid. Even the best of
them Nola Boyle for example are
merely sketches for characters. And the
worst, whom we find in “Night on Bald
Mountain”, are embarrassingly crude.
White’s failure here and elsewhere is
partly to do with his miscalculation of
effects. In all four plays there is some
good comic writing. White shows again
and again his talent for capturing in-
tonation and inflexion and turns of
phrase. Yet too often he gives way to
the temptation to be funny at the expense
of the coherence of the action. Miss
Docker’s exchange with Mr Wakeman
about the suitability of his pumpkin
illustration is indeed very funny, but it
topples the delicate balance of the scene.
One has the feeling, too, that White
tries to make up for the deficiencies in
characterisations by verbal embroidery
and short pieces of significant dialogue.
Hence the landlord’s table which is love;
Miss Quodling's shout “I am the moun-
tain”; and Miss Docker's appalling dis-
covery that dog is God spelt backwards,
and that this is significant. But is it?
The puzzled swaggie who can’t see its
significance is merely told by Miss
Docker, “If you can't see ... I can’t tell”.
I have considerable sympathy for him.
To me the scene between Miss Docker
and the dog is hardly more than a gim-
mick. Too much of the supposedly sig-
nificant language in . the plays resounds
with hollow echoes. When he is not
writing comic dialogue, White falls back
on “ordinary” speech or the rhetoric of a
mannered and stylised “poetic” speech
which often recalls T. S. Eliot. Neither
style, even when supported by theatrical
effects, can sufficiently animate his
characters or accurately define their
attitude. For example, are we meant
to take seriously the Young Man’s
address in “The Ham Funeral” to the
“tender, humorous foetus” he has found
in the dust-bin? And this raises perhaps
the most disturbing problem of all. At
times White moves his satirical spotlight
so deftly that all his characters are
caught in its beam. When this happens
the positive values which seem to be
asserted are blighted, and one is left
to wonder whether perhaps Gulliver was
not right after all in finding the human
race in the last analysis merely disgust-
ing. A deep distaste for life, combined
with dark hints as to its meaning, does
not make a happy dramatic formula.
These plays, with their stark structure
and comparatively crude statements, can
shed light on some aspects of the novels.
They cannot, I think, compete with
them in intrinsic interest or value.
The Facts About Changi
By EK BUM
MacDougaPs Farm. Eric Lambert. Fred-
erick Muller. 235.
PFhe publishers are specific that the
author’s own experiences in Malaya
and Changi support the detail of the
story in this book which they describe
as “an off-beat war story with anecdotes
often hilarious as well as tragic, a story
of an indomitable character remembered
by many as a god among mortals
. . . the man who organised a currency
rate and a rationing system and traded
everything he could lay hands on to
keep prisoners alive . . . the man who
opened a duck farm”.
Mr Lambert writes in his author’s
note: “In this account of Malcolm
MacDougal’s life as a prisoner of war
in Changi I have stuck mainly to Mal-
colm’s notes and his many verbal com-
munications. I have drawn as well on
some of my own recollections, but as
little as possible, and then merely to add
color and substance to the background.”
The publisher declares that Mr Lam-
bert, “who was in Changi Gaol, can write
with first-hand experience of such suffer-
ing (i.e., of the prisoners of war in
Changi); he can also write of the heroism
which accompanied it, such as that dis-
played by Malcolm MacDougal”.
The reviewer reading the book in
detail is faced with many difficulties aris-
ing from wide divergences between Mr
Lambert's accounts of events and those
of the accepted war histories. These
differences are not by any means isolated.
They apply both to Mr Lambert’s remin-
iscences and to matter apparently derived
from MacDougal's notes and communi-
cations. To take a reminiscence first: On
p. 61 of Lambert’s book appears this
message:
My mind goes back to the morning of the
27th September, 1943, the morning my own
battalion took the Malahang Mission in New
Guinea. My own company advanced on the
Mission in a blaze of hatred and gunfire.
Only that morning we had found the muti-
lated corpses of comrades who had been
"BLACK JACK" GALLEGHAN
wounded and lost their way during an un-
successful night attack. The Japs had found
them before us. Our mates had been bayon-
eted scores of times; one was beheaded,
another was castrated, several had steaks
cut from their thighs. The steaks were later
found in a Jap cooking pot. Mine was the
first platoon into Malahang. Finally we in-
spected the large building which had once
been a church and the Japs used as a hos-
pital All its patients were dead ... of
everything imaginable, wounds turned sep-
tic, dysentery, malaria, typhus, plain star-
vation . . . the hundred or so dead lay t on
bamboo platforms either side of a narrow
aisle. Their comrades had left them there
to die . . . and dug defences a mile or so
outside the Mission, to face our attack.
Leaving aside the question of how Mr
Lambert got out of Changi Gaol and into
the 2/32nd Battalion in New Guinea, or
vice versa, a matter which he no doubt
can explain, comparison with war histor-
ies provides an illustration of the com-
mon difference between Mr Lambert’s
versions and accepted history culled from
the records. He says the attack took
place on the morning of September 27,
1943; but the war history says it took
place on the morning of September 16.
The Unsacrificed
“Where is the lamb for the sacrifice,
father?”
I asked, not knowing. How could I have
known?
And for some reason I thought of the
brother
I'd only heard of, wandering alone
Among the dunes, cast out. What had he
done?
We climbed, wood on my back, a knife
and fire
In his hands and eyes* ice that spoke:
“My son!”
He built an altar, and I looked down
inspired,
Never having been so high. The world lay
Open - thighed before me, sycamores
pressed
Deep in breasts of earth; pomegranates,
sky
Pulsed love and life: the tomorrows
promised
Me.
A rope looped round. Dazed, I was tied,
Then freed. Could his joy care that then
I died?
RICHARD FLANTZ


PLANNING A FAMILY?
If so, you'll be interested in obtaining a copy of the
CANBERRA
CONSUMER SPECIAL REPORT
on Contraceptives
• This publication is the first comparative test report on the effectiveness
and reliability of contraceptives available in Australia.
The illustrated 64-page report deals with the types and brands of
contraceptives, their advantages, disadvantages and costs. Of 54
products tested, 40 were found to be unsatisfactory. The tests were
carried out by highly qualified persons for Canberra Consumers
Incorporated, a non-profit consumer education and testing organisation.
• Copies are available, price 20s. posted, from Canberra Con-
sumers Inc., P.O. Box 591, Canberra City. Write today.
He says the battalion advanced on the
Mission in a blaze of hatred and gunfire,
having found the corpses of its mutilated
mates; the war history does not mention
the mutilated corpses but says that the
battalion found the corpses of 68
Japanese killed in an earlier fight and
advanced “elated by its success.”
Mr Lambert says the Japanese estab-
lished defences about a mile or so from
the Mission; the official volume says that
the battalion advanced unresisted on the
afternoon of 15th to within 450 yards
from the objective where they found
deserted diggings and two booby traps.
As they heard sounds of wood-chopping
they deferred attack on the Mission till
the morning (16th), when, in a down-
pour at dawn, they “met some resistance
and killed eight stragglers”.
The official report mentions the de-
plorable lack of hygiene and of security
in the enemy camp in the Mission. But
it also mentions that Colonel Scott
immediately after entry began to estab-
lish his HQ in the church which Mr
Lambert says contained over 100 corpses
of men who had died of typhus, dysen-
tery, infections and deadly diseases, and
of suppurated wounds.
There seem to be similar discrepancies
between official history and Mr Lam-
bert’s (or Private MacDougal’s) history
of the Malayan campaign. Mr Lambert
says that MacDougal arrived in Singa-
pore in February, 1942, and ambled down
the gangway “blandly ignoring the strid-
ent instructions of an officer to ‘hurry
up’.” No troopships arrived in February;
the last one came in on January 28, and
MacDougal appears to have been in it,
as a reinforcement for the 2/19th Bat-
talion.
Mr. Lambert pictures MacDougal as
taking part in a retreat down the main-
land in which the record of the officers
“from generals down”, as subsequently
in Changi, was a “sordid, sorry one”,
since “bewildered, astonished and de-
moralised by the Japanese advance they
headed their men in ignominious flight”;
after which they “sat back and allowed
the Japs to throw their men into foetid
jungles, as slaves to be starved, tortured
and beaten, to live in degradation and
die slow deaths”.
He does not explain how' officers, who
could not prevent themselves from being
sent to Japan to be worked and tortured
into debility and some of them to death,
could have prevented the Japanese from
doing anything. But he is very specific
about what they supposedly did and did
not do.
The war history represents the Bth
Division’s last few days on the mainland
of Malaya as a period of fierce fighting.
But Mr Lambert describes this retreat as
one in which MacDougal took part, one
during which no Japanese were seen
and even the sound of them heard chat-
tering like parrots in the trees made men
throw aw'ay their rifles and equipment
and make “blindly for Singapore”. He
pictures MacDougal as “declining to
follow” this bad example, remaining be-
hind until he had only one companion,
when he “retreated in good order to
Singapore to pick up reinforcements”.
He represents MacDougal with these
reinforcements as marching “back again
across the Causeway” to go up-country
and seek out the Japs; and as fighting for
several days on this foray until the
enemy brought up its “artillery and
several batteries of guns and pinned the
Australians down in the mud”. They
wounded MacDougal who once more
retired to Singapore to pursue an heroic
career of self-sacrifice, his only trophy a
water-bottle full of brandy which he had
acquired “up country”. All this after
MacDougal reached Singapore in Febru-
ary.
The War History describes the last
days of the retreat to the island, which
were ending as MacOougal was landing
many miles away, as days of bitter resist-
ance by the covering forces. A Japanese
official account described the AIF and
the Argylls in the last stand on January
27-28 as “continuing their suicidal re-
sistance like wounded boars . . . defying
death, strangely and impudently counter-
attacking with bayonets along the whole
line”. The CO of MacDougal’s own
battalion, Lt-Colonel Anderson, only a
few days before, through his organisa-
tion of resistance at Bakri, had won a
VC as a tribute not only to himself but
his men.
The last battles of the 2/30th, which
was the covering force when the main-
land was evacuated, under Lt-Colone!
“Black Jack” Galleghan (whose name
Mr Lambert spells “Callaghan”) form a
glorious part of Australian fighting his-
tory. All the Australian forces were on
Singapore Island by the night of January
30, two days after MacDougal reached
Singapore. The Causeway was blown up
at 8 a.m. on January 31. No force that
I can discover crossed to the mainland
after January 30. And if MacDougall
crossed the Causeway after that, which
he and his companions are alleged to
have done, they must have walked on
water, since the Causeway had ceased
to exist.
This kind of difference continues
throughout the book. Every other
authority says that Lieutenant-General
Gordon Bennett made a daring escape in
a small boat after all air communication
with the outside world had been severed.
Mr Lambert says he “got out of Malaya
on the last plane and left his men to it”.
The war histories of all combatants de-
clare that the Sandakan Death March
took place on January 29. 1945, but Mr
Lambert makes it clear that MacDougal
and his companions knew' about it in
November, 1942, more than two years
before the event. He alleges that, in
spite of this knowledge, and knowledge
of the massacre of nurses on Banka
Island —of which Eighth Division
officers assure me they heard for the
first time on their way home from
Changi in 1945 officers in Changi
allowed the Japanese to send prisoners
to their deaths on the Burma-Siam rail-
way.
Officers declare that they had no idea
where the men were being sent —the
enemy told them the men were being
taken “to a better place”. But Mr Lam-
bert thinks they should have resisted even
if only a few of them were shot for inter-
fering.
In the matter of the conduct of war,
Mr Lambert differs as much from other
authorities as he does about facts. For
instance, he writes:
There should have been no surrender in
the first place. The Malayan People’s Liber-
ation Army, and after them the Chinese
guerrillas during the post-vrar emergency*
showed what a dance a handful of men


How you go
oßßir
&£5
y
G
or
where you go
4
m
M HA
go through
TRAVEL
SERVICES
PTY. LTD.
it costs no more!
Free services include the
arranging of your trans-
portation and hotel reser-
vations, passports, visas
(also U.K. Entry Permits),
health documents, foreign
currency and personal
and baggage insurance.
Travel now—pay later
‘ facilities.
SYDNEY:
116 King St., 23 2681
MELBOURNE:
374 Bourke St., 67 7071
BRISBANE:
119 Queen Street, 2-2328
Official agents for all
air, sea, rail and coach
companies throughout the
world.
could lead a whole army. The High Com-
mand couldn’t throw in the hand quick
enough.
The last sentence is nonsense, since
General Percival and his High Command
wished to do exactly what Mr Lambert
wanted them to do, but were overruled
by civilian government opinion, wisely
bent on saving the Singapore population
from Japanese bombing and from death
by thirst in a siege. As for the Com-
niunist-backed “Liberation” armies and
guerrillas, they had the advantage of
being Malays and Chinese indistinguish-
able from the rest of the population,
unidentifiable among the general mass
and conducting their war in civilian
clothing and regardless of the Geneva
Convention. An Australian force trying
to imitate them would have stood out
like archbishops at the Harold Park dog
races. Outside Mr Lambert, only the
shrill propagandists of the Communist
Parties have even seriously suggested
that Australians could have pursued the
same tactics as the Malay and Chinese
guerrillas except as an act of suicide.
It is a pity that W. MacDougal, who
was a young Sydney solicitor before he
enlisted, is not here to tell his own story.
He died in London in 1962.
Shadows and Reflections
By R. M. WILDING
A Dedicated Man. Elizabeth Taylor. Chatto
and Windus. 265. 6d.
The Final Beast. Frederick Buechner.
Chatto and Windus. 265. 6d.
The Inner Room. Vera Randall. Rupert
Hart-Davis. 265. 6d.
|7lizabeth Taylor has written a dozen
books, yet she is a name rarely
mentioned in the periodic runs-through
of contemporary writing. Perhaps the
flashier talents attract the publicity and
get film rights; or perhaps Mrs Taylor’s
name would be an embarrassment in the
regular dossiers on the decline of the
post-war novel or the death of the short
story. Her latest collection of stories is
a triumphant demonstration of the life
of the form —though to say that unfairly
suggests that they are merely exhibits in
a tedious case. And they are certainly not
that. Each one of them is a superb piece
of writing, each is a memorable experi-
ence.
She avoids the traps of the sort of
story that is peopled only by the faceless
revolving in the plot, and of the sort
of story that caresses the minutiae of
characters shown in no event or develop-
ment or action. And she writes brilliantly,
too—a brilliance not of the showy phrase
or the sticky conceit but of the pregnant
implication, the full resonance of the
hinted. “The Prerogative of Love” has
its evening of a hot summer day, its
elegant house in the Thames Valley, its
two couples, middle-aged, married,
moneyed. The young niece, a model,
drives up unexpected in her light summer
dress, invites herself unencouraged to
dinner—and produces a fine drama of
brushed feelings, implied cruelties, sad
infidelities of attention. “Girl Reading”
involves the minutiae of the English
social structure, and Mrs Taylor has a
finer touch for the shades of discrimina-
tion than most writers. Two friends at a
girls’ private school spend much of their
holidays together—but Etta always stays
st Sarah’s and her worry is not that her
rfiother can scarcely afford to repay the
hospitality but that her mother might
want to have Sarah to stay in the brave
making-do of the terrace house; because
Sarah’s home has lawns reaching down
to the Thames, is full of people and new
recipes and sunlight.
What is so well done is the kindness
that Sarah’s family show, their fear of
seeming too prosperous, too assured.
And when Etta’s mother comes in the
firm’s car to drive her daughter back
home, the scene is one of terrible trial —
Etta's mother afraid of appearing unused
to the world of her daughter’s friend,
Sarah’s mother afraid of boasting a
wealth and liveliness; and Etta herself
aligning with her friends against her
mother’s separateness. “ ‘You see, I am at
home here,’ she implied, as she jumped
up to fetch things or hand things round.
She was a little daring in her familiarity.”
Even an unpromising idea, the rather pat
plot of the writer of exotic thrillers sub-
dued by his wife, frightened even to
look at another girl, is given a life and
fullness; the Moroccan hotel, the English
holiday-makers, the apathetic gossiping
and the flabby sunbathing fill a world
that for all its evocative color is peopled
by listless readers as trapped as the
writer himself.
The title of “The Final Beast” suggests
that some sort of evil is being dealt with,
zoological, zodiacal or revelationary. So
the burning alive of the vicar’s Jewish
housekeeper by avenging louts comes as
no surprise. She is the necessary scape-
goat figure for a novel of sin and re-
demption; and it is her attempt to save
the vicar’s smirched reputation that ex-
poses him to the ridicule of the evil
journalist. The vicar himself is the neces-
sary saint; he races off after his attrac-
tive parishioner who has gone to see
a witch to pray that she might have a
baby; and the parishioner comes back to
the ugly rumors. But to summarise
Frederick Beuchner’s plot is unfair and
makes the book sound like a vicarage
novelette, and the fine writing might
suggest we should take it more rever-
ently, as if Christopher Fry had updated
“The Scarlet Letter”.
“The Inner Room” is probably very
true to the experiences of the five women
in the mental hospital, each of whom has
a section about or by or thought through
herself. The therapy sounds truly fright-
ening. But the artiness of presentation—-
sometimes letters, sometimes the mind-
less registering of objects and movements
of the nouveau roman, sometimes first,
sometimes third person narration—never
makes the book much more for me than
five appendixes to case histories.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Trouble for Automotives
REPORTS of a further fall in registrations of new motor vehicles in Australia for
the month of November are indeed disturbing for the automotive trade.
Without waiting for official figures to
appear, the automotive parts industry has
taken heed of its own drop in sales and
made retrenchments. Figures of dis-
missals reported by the Federation of
Automotive Parts Manufacturers in-
dicated that 1100 people have been dis-
missed since the beginning of September.
These figures applied only to new equip-
ment manufacturers.
A round-up by The Bulletin of a
few people in ancillary trades confirms
that the slow-down in the automotive
trade is having some temporary effect.
Die casters, for example, who previously
had no surplus capacity, are now re-
porting that they can take on outside
work because of the fall in demand for
auto components.
The current situation certainly points
up the wisdom of the Federal Govern-
ment in not imposing extra sales tax on
motor cars in the last Federal Budget.
Although the motor trade has been
aware of the reduction of sales in Aus-
tralia, each distributor was hoping that
the other fellow would get hurt.
With sales so buoyant in recent years,
and the Japanese making steady inroads
into the market, some slackening in sales
volume was expected, even allowing for
the trend towards “two-car” families. But
at least it was hoped that last year’s total
of 408,000 new-car registrations would
be matched.
Unless there is a sudden burst of sales
in December, there is little likelihood
of this.
The important consideration at this
stage is whether 1966 will merely see
further steadying in the industry or
whether the sales trend will continue
downward.
Perhaps the Reserve Bank’s latest
move towards somewhat easier credit
conditions may not be sufficient to reach,
and correct, regression in the automotive
industry just yet. Any continuance of
even relatively tight money inevitably
weights the position in favor of subdued
car sales.
A heavier emphasis is also lent to this
argument by the difficulty of selling used
cars. It still seems likely that additional
price reductions may be necessary to
encourage buyers.
The new instructions to the savings
banks place their specific drive on to
home lending—with motor vehicles, an-
other particularly sensitive guideline in
the economy. The singling-out of housing
has obviously become necessary. Yet
monetary expansiveness must also seep
into other tender business segments as
well,
De Gaulle Again
T>ecause of the embarrassing demands
by France in forcing the US to
convert France’s dollar earnings into
gold, no doubt the US might hope for
a change of policy if Charles de Gaulle
were defeated at the election on Decem-
ber 5.
Yet, despite the emergence of two
rather better quality rival candidates in
M. Lecanuet and M. Mitterand, and a
feeling that the twentieth century may at
last be catching up on de Gaulle, almost
no observers considered his defeat pos-
sible. Criticism of the father-figure has,
however, become more vocal.
Critics of de Gaulle’s policies may
complain about inflation. It is nonethe-
less true that the devaluation in 1958
and the Government restraints of 1963
provided effective control of the econ-
omy, allowing France to prosper in the
Common Market and to build up
reserves of gold and foreign exchange.
It may be argued that, despite
France’s financial success during the
seven-year reign of de Gaulle, price
CHARLES de GAULLE
stability still leaves a lot to be desired,
Further, it is claimed that there have
not been any major reforms in the
economy which could be classed as con-
structive expansion.
De Gaulle has at least gained many
diplomatic advantages in his dealings
with the West. It can be shown, how-
ever, that France’s industrial production
since 1958 has not kept pace with the
Common Market as a whole.
From Australia’s viewpoint it might
be said that it is better to have a stable
government in France ruled by de
Gaulle than to suffer the chaos of gov-
ernments which fall every second day.
In the long run, though, a successful
France dominating the Common Market,
with Britain as a mendicant, must spell
export loss for Australia.
British and American Share Markets
is proving a more difficult
hurdle for the London share markets
to negotiate than seemed likely a week
or two ago. And there are other factors
as well tending to dampen the boom atmo-
sphere which brought the index to its 1965
peak so recently. Some of the larger
companies have begun to display the
effects of the credit squeeze rather
obviously; a lower demand for steel may
constitute a further overall economic
pointer.
Not that London has been devoid of
bright spots, too. November's gold and
dollar reserve statistics continued earlier
improvement; Great Universal Stores' profit
went well ahead, and a spate of takeover
proposals are springing their own form of
liveliness upon the market.
Nevertheless, the situation could at best
be described as uncertain, even though
Friday looked considerably better after
the heavy downturn of Monday - Wednes-
day dealings. The return to relative firm-
ness is hardly to be ranked as a thorough
rally, however. Part of the late exuber-
ance has still to receive a measure of
correction.
The reconsideration is perhaps being
shown among some of the leaders at
present. Last week, for instance, pro-
duced falls by ICI, Courtaulds and Vickers.
The popular oil issues traced their retreat
to Continental Oil's cessation of North Sea
drilling, "because its well had not proved
commercial".
Wall Street has also found quite a num-
ber of its leaders going lower. Most of
the week's interest was centred on second-
liners and "special situations". Friday's
Dow Jones managed to add a point or so,
but many of the analysts are feeling that
the current tone is to be expected at this
time of the year. Tax-selling is common.
Despite all this, volumes stay high and
last week's actual trading range was the
broadest ever—lss3 issues. One "special
situation" obviously occurred among auto
spares: sales in November beat the
previous November, 1963, record. As a
result. General Motors, Chrysler and Ford
all advanced well.


The Bank of Ceylon is the largest bank in the
island, controlling over 50% of the total bank
deposits in Ceylon. Enterprising exporters and
importers depend upon this strength in their
trading relations with Ceylon.
The Bank of Ceylon offers a comprehensive
service from up-to-the-minute Business Intelli-
gence Reports and Credit Information, to the
financing of exports and imports and conducting
every type of foreign exchange transaction.
LONDON OFFICE: 48-54 Moorgate, London, E.C.2.
Phone Monarch 5597-9.
FOREIGN DEPT.:
Bank of Ceylon Building,
York Street, Colombo 1.
Cables: FORBANK Colombo.
CENTRAL OFFICE:
Bank of Ceylon Building,
York Street, Colombo 1.
Cables: HEADBANK Colombo.
4-2LSI
BANK OF CEYLON
The largest bank in Ceylon
with the finest network of local branches.
28 BRANCHES AND 4 PAY OFFICES iN CEYLON.
Cooma’s most
modern Motel
r :
~fe
S MOTEL 0
MONARO HIGHWAY, COOMA
at the gateway to the Snowy
Offering the degree of comfort and luxury
you would expect to find in one of
Australia’s leading Motels. • 60 heated
bedroom units with convenient parking.
• Radio and Telephone in all units.
• Private Shower and toilet. • Guest
lounge. • Quick service Coffee Shop for
budget-priced meals.
For reservations and further details contact any
ANSETT-ANA TRAVEL SERVICE
or ANSETT-PIONEER, 74 Sharp St., Cooma.
A MEMBER COMPANY Of ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
ATI .708
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Melbourne’s Post-mortem
On a Paradox
What portends for the brokers now
T ET us face it, the last twelve months have been poor for stockbrokers. This is
not glossed over by the annual report of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne,
which points the paradox that “continued high levels of employment and major
industrial developments contrasted with falling equity prices and lower market
turnover”.
Unlike the Sydney Exchange’s recent
annual report, Melbourne’s forbears to
single out official monetary policy as
the major depressant, seeing this rather
in external factors linked with the un-
certain course of the two main world
reserve currencies. Yet the Sydney
imputation is imbedded, if not openly
drawn, in the report. “Interest rates rose
sharply, emanating from Commonwealth
Loan yields and spreading through the
whole loan market, ultimately raising the
market yield on equities,” it states.
“Official monetary strategy succeeded in
restraining the growth of expenditure
and inflationary trends in the economy,”
it continues. “With the strong continu-
ing preference for liquid assets and with
interest rates at historically high levels,
share prices were depressed in con-
sequence, often without due regard to
the prosperity of particular industries
or companies.”
That is a faithful record of what hap-
pened and the leading question for the
market is whether the authorities will
soon change their tune. On his showing
last week, Mr Ricketson is one who
seems to think they will. We could, in
that case, have a new paradox. With
many industries running down and their
profits easing, we could have a resurgent
market responding to official measures of
stimulus to restore internal economic
activity to the peak level which share
prices refused to follow in the last year.
There would possibly be a double para-
dox in that, though it is not all that
certain how strongly or how quickly in-
vestors (and the economy itself) would
react to the relaxing of official restraints
or, for that matter, to deliberate reflation-
ary measures to stimulate effective
demand.
There are several possible submerged
snags in the running stream. Taking a
clue from Keynes, one of these finds
expression in his “General Theory of
Employment Interest and Money”. “A
collapse in the price of equities,” he
stated there, “may have been due to the
weakening of either speculative con-
fidence or the state of credit. But whereas
the weakening of either is enough to
cause a collapse, recovery requires the
revival of both. For whilst the weaken-
ing of credit is sufficient to bring about
a collapse, its strengthening, though a
necessary condition of recovery, is not
a sufficient condition.”
You can lead a borrower to the credit
spring, one might say, but even with
the liquid flowing freely and embalmed
with lower interest rates, he will not
necessarily drink even if a few months
earlier he would have paid dearly to
quench his parched thirst. We can see
one reason why this thought may be
apposite now if we take the present over-
stocked condition of much of trade and
industry (underlined by the National Ex-
penditure Accounts for the September
quarter). From the look of it, this
predicates a considerable easing in the
demand for credit, as one would expect
the holders of surplus stocks to attempt
to draw them down over the next six
months. This would cut back the demand
for finance for stockholding; moreover,
it would predicate reduced orders for
industry whose needs of working capital
would be diminished.
Another possible pitfall lies in the
horrible thought that the rundown in
production may go a lot further than
might be officially condoned in the
interests of getting a better balance of
resources use (apparently the Treasury
economists regard the process to this
stage with equanimity, on the view that
labor mobility is working the way they
want and have predicted). Although in
the broad one must remain sanguine
about employment prospects, with so
much new fixed investment and defence
work to bolster work opportunities, what
we may call structural weaknesses both
in the established pattern of employment
and also in demand itself might take
some time to iron out before labor
absorption is restored to its former
strength.
Only a handful of unemployed in
Queensland or the drought areas might
want jobs in Western Australia, in
defence and outback development pro-


Why is this the time
to drink Australian Whisky?
Ask your favourite retailer for
the booklet which tells you about
Australian Whisky today
jerts. or even in Melbourne or Sydney
for that matter. As BHP employment
officers will tell you, it is tar from easy
to build up a work force in outlandish
places such as Whvalla, even with the
bait of high wages and superb amenities.
Admittedly they have been at a great
disadvantage in the last year or two when
so much rival employment has been
offering in the more congenial locales of
the capital cities.
By inference, with the latter oppor-
tunities being reduced, BHP has a much
better chance of holding labor in Whyalla
than when overful employment was at its
height. By the same token, one would
expect employment in remote areas such
as the Pilbara, where big mining develop-
ments are in train, to become relatively
more attractive and in fact east to west
migration to these projects has been
quite considerable.
Yet this sort of movement is not
everyone’s meat and most people will
contrive to stay in their established areas.
What of them? People displaced from
jobs in the automotive industries might
ideally be considered suitable for work
in defence industries; in practice it might
be difficult to place them, at any rate
on their accustomed beat, and though
the evidence is scanty, one is not at all
certain that a flood of jobs is opening
up in defence industries. If it is not,
then, as the cumulative effects of reduced
employment in the key motor and
housing industries work themselves out,
there will be a further narrowing of
alternative possibilities for the majority
of displaced workers to find employment.
So in face of these structural weaknesses
in the employment pattern, a solution
would rest all the more decisively on the
possibilities of lifting effective demand
to take up the slack.
Before looking at these it is necessary
to project into the situation first the flood
of migrants now coming into the country
and also the inflated numbers of school
leavers now on the threshold of entering
the work force. Those of us with a
reflationary urge just now see a salutary
coincidence in the current steadiness of
overseas reserves (they rose £ll4 million
in the week to November 24) and the
sharp net gain to 13,183 in permanent
immigrant intake in October (in the latest
four months 42,906 migrants came in
compared with 37,702 in the same
months last year). Setting long-distance
sights, this coincidence should encourage
the authorities to stretch a point if they
are in doubt that it is time for action to
ensure the economy doesn’t lose more
momentum.
On the demand side, the official view
is that any deficiency can be looked after.
(Remember Mr McMahon at the Human
Relations Congress early in the year,
when he said demand was the key and
the Government knew just how to unlock
the door of employment with it!) It
remains to be seen, however, whether
structural weakness in the demand pat-
tern can easily be overcome. One can
think, for instance, of the present high
degree of saturation in the demand for
motor vehicles and the plethora of un-
tenanted flats, mostly new ones, in the
various capital cities, Melbourne in par-1
ticular, where, judging on the forests ofi
“To Let” signs, South Yarra and Toorak
look extremely overbuilt with high-priced
flats just now and more are going up
in these areas.
If the Melbourne Stock Exchange had
a bad time last year to end September
(total turnover in Melbourne dropped
21 p.c.—of shares actually 25 p.c.—and
the all ordinaries share price index fell
from 116.3 to 98.3) and is still finding
the going tough, both turnover and
price-wise, its clients can still be excused
for sitting on the fence. For while it
could well be that overseas forces,
deemed by the Exchange as the main
devil in the piece last year, are now
working a little more in Australia’s favor,
the internal economic picture is more
blurred than it has been for two years
or mor
CROESUS
An Amicable Occasion
Taking a leaf from “The Highest Bidder"
a leaf from “The Highest Bidder”, recently published by Lansdowne (at
A 455.) for joint authors E. L. Wheelwright and (posthumously) Brian Fitzpatrick,
the Prime Minister, in the congenial atmosphere of opening the Scottish Amicable’s
new premises in Queen Street last week, was seeing to it that while he might be
trapped in Sydney lifts he was not going to be caught out in Melbourne.
As if answering the opening question
of the book, “Can a country have too
much foreign investment?”, Sir Robert
gave precisely the same answer as its
authors, who chose to spoil their other-
wise competent treatment of the issues
involved by teasing him needlessly and
attributing to h-im an equivocal attitude
on them. Like them, the PM said we
don’t want too much foreign investment.
Neither he nor they were able exactly
to draw the line.
The main difference in approach is
that, whereas Sir Robert is obviously
anxious to encourage as much of it as
he can for the foreseeable future pro-
vided it doesn’t mean “selling the farm”,
Wheelwright, an English migrant, brings
to his views a hate complex directed not
oniy against foreign investment but
apparently also against international
capital and big business in general. His
tirade against all these reaches new
heights in this book, though the argu-
ment in general is pretty familiar. It
beats me why he should set himself up
against Australian-born Sir Robert as
the arbiter of what is best for this
country and expect to command respect
for his vituperations.
Always deferring to a degree of
economic nationalism, it is well to recog-
nise an inevitable dichotomy between the
import of people and capital if this
country is to develop at a rate world
opinion demands of a relatively unpopu-
lated terrain. Aren’t we all migrants in
a sense and wasn't the first capital we


ISfcguGEg
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
Debenture Stock
and
Unsecured Deposit
Notes
up to
p.a
Interest paid quarterly
Debenture
Stock
L.
SVz%
for 7-10 years
1
Unsecured
Deposit
Note^j
SSJ
Applications can only be
accepted on the appropriate
form issued with the Prospectus
how available from:
• Any Branch of The National
Bank of Australasia Limited
• Any Stockbroker
• Any Waltons store or office
• Waltons Credit Corporation
Limited, Box 3875, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
W 39
TO WALTONS CREDIT CORPORATION LTD.
Please send me, without obligation, a copy of
your Prospectus.
NAM E
ADDRESS
E. L. WHEELWRIGHT
had imported? No offence is meant to
the truly indigenous among us (and their
weapons of the chase) who have been
battering on Canberra doors lately in
isearch of the restoration of their rights!
iWhat with the Pill and the pressures of
'consumption costs (bread will be the
next), big Australian families are a thing
of the past and local savings, the alter-
native to overseas capital, also have to
defer to the rival claims of consumption,
keeping up with the Joneses. In these
circumstances the dichotomy is truly
established.
Australia is developing along the same
,lines as the United States (and Britain,
too, for that matter, what with its
admixture of mixed races, European and
otherwise, its outward looking to Europe
and the Commonwealth both), and our
future lies along international com-
munity lines. The Digger and his at-
titudes are being buried, and not so slowly
either, by the growing pervasiveness of
migrants and overseas capital. Builders
are in vogue. Diggers may regret this,
but there is no putting the clock back,
at least not under the auspices of Pro-
fessor Wheelwright.
At the Scottish Amicable, Sir Robert
showed himself as aware as anybody that
at least a greater effort should be made
to save as a source of our national, as
well as his own personal, salvation (he
regretted, for instance, he had not saved
more through insurance in his time!).
This all fitted into a theme broached
across the way by the Stock Exchange in
its annual report (see “Economics Anony-
mous”) that more stimulus is required
for the accommodation of Australian in-
vestors in some of the new big minerals
projects whose capital needs are so
massive that, even though overseas
capital is required to fill most of them,
local participation is not as big as it
should be or perhaps as we could make
it with a special effort.
If “The Highest Bidder” shakes us
more out of our complacency about lean-
ing on overseas capital, stirs our savings
hormones and excites the authorities and
the capital markets into improving the
facilities for marshalling capital, it will
have served a very useful purpose and
possibly one not foreseen by the authors,
who seem to have been more concerned
to stir antipathy against wicked foreign
uncles.
It is a book that should be read but
not swallowed whole as gospel, even if
the excellence of the statistics and the
integrity of the authors alike cannot be
gainsaid. For my part it kept throwing
my thoughts back to a talk I heard in
Canberra recently by Mr B. B. Callaghan
on new ways and means to increase and
marshal local savings. The suggestions
he made have been given far less public
prominence than they warrant.
After the sombre Melbourne Stock
Exchange report we might take heart,
for instance, from Mr Callaghan’s idea
of introducing mass merchandising of
securities, modern advertising techniques,
the wider use of investment clubs and
investment by instalment. Callaghan is
also in favor of a national insurance
scheme (as Sir Robert once was). In
Sweden such a scheme, set up in 1960,
has already amassed reserves of £A6OO
million. Coupled with the operation of
a so-called anti-cyclical investment funds
scheme, this has greatly increased the
volume of local savings marshalled for
investment.
Callaghan thinks we might also look
at the Japanese practice of paying a pro-
portion (up to 40 p.c. in their case) of
wages in the form of bonuses distributed
once or twice a year, as an aid to
saving. Another of his suggestions is
to start a national development cor-
poration, founded, say, on the experience
and ability of the trading banks, in which
the public could be encouraged to invest
by allowing interest on its bonds to be
tax deductible in the fashion of current
rebates on interest on Commonwealth
bonds.
This is not the end of Mr Callaghan’s
list by any means, but sufficient to show
that up to a point the managing director
of the Commonwealth Banking Corpora-
tion is prepared to see Peter (the Treas-
urer) robbed in the interests of Paul’s
putting more into voluntary savings. At
least some of the ideas seem worth trying
to see how the net result for national
savings as a whole would work out.
Callaghan’s is certainly the most promis-
ing route likely to ensure that, as Wheel-
wright fears, we won’t be sold to the
highest bidder —that is if, as the book
asks, we haven’t been sold already.


HIGHLIGHTS FROM NATIONAL BANK
CHAIRMAN’S 1965 ADDRESS
A TIGHT MONETARY OUTLOOK. The heavy deficit in our overseas trading, causing an outflow
of cash, has substantially offset the effects of internal factors making for additions to
bank deposits. The Reserve Bank, quite appropriately in the circumstances, has been
assisting to maintain liquidity and bank deposits at higher levels than they otherwise
would have been. But the overall result has been a tighter monetary situation, and
present indications are that this will continue next year. The outlook might improve if,
as is to be hoped, imports fall somewhat, and exports and overseas capital inflow are
higher than anticipated.
RESTRAINT ON BANK LENDING CONTINUES. In the short-term, the vital factor which governs
the ability of the trading banks to meet the demand for accommodation is the degree
of restraint imposed by the Reserve Bank over the use of their resources for lending.
Strict control of these resources is being maintained, and there is also a direct limitation
of new and increased overdraft limits to a fixed figure per week for the major trading
banks taken as a group. However, in the interests of stability, the Reserve Bank may
be obliged to take action which has a direct, and maybe unpopular, impact upon those
seeking bank accommodation.
GROWTH OF BANK DEPOSITS LAGGING. Over longer periods the growth in trading bank
deposits becomes a second, vital factor in the trading banks’ ability to provide ade-
quate finance. For a decade the growth of trading bank deposits has fallen behind the
nation’s growth to an alarming extent. Superimposed upon this failure in the growth
of deposit resources has been a dramatic change in their composition. There has been
a build-up at heavier cost to the banks of interest bearing deposits whereas ordinary
cheque account deposits have shown little growth. Similar trends are evident in Britain
and America where banking authorities are also concerned as to the outcome.
COMPETITION FOR DEPOSITS. Recent monetary policy, both here and overseas, has
emphasised that banks ought to be more active in “competing for deposits”. Individual
banks can and do compete with one another for deposits. But it is totally different
reasoning to assume from this that banks as a whole only have to offer higher interest
rates or other incentives, and more bank deposits will be necessarily obtained. Bank
deposits, together with actual currency, comprise the real money of the community
which in total cannot be reduced or enlarged except through processes that are known
and generally accepted.
BANKS SADDLED WITH ADDITIONAL COST. In addition to bearing the brunt of the costs of
controlling the volume of credit in the national interests, banks now face higher
interest costs on deposits designed, in part, to try and limit the availability of funds
to the non-bank financial intermediaries. This confronts banks with a dilemma of real
consequence because, at the same time, the interest they can charge on loans, and the
amount of their lending, are both controlled. There is an unanswerable case in terms of
equity for improved income as a partial offset, at the very least, to this double cost
load. The community, as well as the banking system, has a vital stake here because it
is of the utmost importance to our developing country that the cost of bank accom-
modation and other services should not be excessively high.
ACCOUNTS. An increase of £4sm. brought consolidated balance sheet assets to over
£s7om. The trading bank was responsible for about two thirds of this increase and the
savings bank the remainder. Consolidated gross earnings rose by £648,000
to £15,868,000, but expenses increased by £1,047,000. Net profit at £1,336,000 was
£121,000 lower.
STAFF THANKED. The Bank’s staff was thanked for their work and efforts over the past
year.
Mr. J. A. Forrest, Chairman. Melbourne, 24th November, 1965.
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
and its wholly owned subsidiary
THE NATIONAL BANK SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Head Office: 271-285 Collins Street, Melbourne.


959 N
Invest in
Associated
Securities
Limited
For
Debenture Stock
(10 year term )
For
Unsecured Notes
(5 year term )
Applications can be accepted only on the printed form
attached to the Prospectus available from
Any Member of a recognised Stock Exchange in Australia,
Any Branch of the Bank of New South Wales,
All Branches of Associated Securities Limited.
Brokers:
Ord, Minnett. T. J. Thompson & Partners
(Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange Limited)
THE MAN
Merit in an Electoral College
To choose the Wool Industry Conference
\ DECISION by the general council of the NSW Graziers’ Association that an
** electoral college system of appointing the Australian Wool Industry Conference be
investigated suggests that the senior woolgrower organisation is examining itself pretty
thoroughly at the present time.
When the examination of the elec-
toral college system is completed,
and reported upon, the reserve price re-
ferendum will have been won or lost.
The way in which the Australian Wool
Industry Conference is appointed has
always been open to question. Some see
the system as a running sore in the wool
industry. Much of the heat generated by
the reserve price scheme is directly at-
tributable to the system.
With an electoral college system, un-
doubtedly the contentious reserve price
question would have been presented in
an entirely different way. It may not
have been presented at all.
The point is that many woolgrowers
claim they knew nothing of the Wool
Industry Conference discussions leading
to the presentation of the reserve price
plan. It cannot be said that they have
only themselves to blame. Getting on the
Wool Industry Conference is an involved
business, requiring much in-fighting in
the respective organisations represented
on the Conference, and for many growers
the time and expense involved are simply
out of the question. Besides, the system
is undemocratic and we are supposed to
be living in a democracy.
This is why the NSW Graziers’ deci-
sion is so interesting. The electoral col-
lege system is not a new idea. Both
South Africa and New Zealand have
similar systems. In the past, however,
it has always been accepted that the
greatest barriers to an electoral college
system in Australia are the Graziers’ As-
sociations in general and the NSW Gra-
ziers’ Association in particular. The
reasoning is that under an electoral col-
lege system the Graziers’ would end up
with fewer members on the Wool In-
dustry Conference than they have under
the present system.
Under the present system, the Aus-
tralian Wool and Meat Producers’ Fede-
ration gets 25 seats, the Woolgrowers
and Graziers’ Council (Federal body of
the Graziers’ Associations) gets 25, and
the Australian Primary Producers’ Associ-
ation (since September) has five seats.
The electoral college system has many
friends in the Australian Wool and Meat
Producers’ Federation. Possibly they
believe they would do better under this
system.
Whichever organisation would end up
doing best is one of those things which
could never be predicted with accuracy.
Under an electoral college system, as
suggested by Mr E. Middleton, of Yass,
at the NSW Graziers’ meeting, wool-
growers would be elected from electoral
districts, each district representing about
200,000 bales of wool. Presumably the
various organisations would each put up
candidates in each district; there might
well be independent candidates also.
Woolgrowers would be voting for men
in their own district and the best (regard-
less of organisation) would win.
Now the personal district standing of
a man, his knowledge of wool, and his
ability as a farmer and businessman,
would doubtless influence the electors,
regardless of organisation affiliation. The
Graziers’ may not do as badly as some
of them used to think. Mr Middleton,
evidently, is one who believes they would
have little to fear in an electoral college
vote. At least the fact that the NSW Gra-
ziers’ adopted his suggestion, of an ex-
amination and report on an electoral
college system, suggests that a “new
look” Graziers’ Association may be on
the way. This could only be for the
good of the industry.
Many woolgrowers are perturbed by
the divisions which reserve price has
engendered and resent the widespread
impression that woolgrowers can never
agree and never know what they want.
None of this need have happened had the
Wool Industry Conference been truly
representative of the industry, which it
is not and never has been.
Apropos the reserve price referendum.
So much has been said, and the vote is
so close, that this observer will confine
himself to one small item jwhich appears
in the “third document” prepared by the
Minister for Primary Industry. It is a
small item, but it is of the utmost im-
portance and it is a remarkable switch.
One had to read it three or four times
to believe it.
It says that the disposal ctf bought-
in wool other than by auction will not
be prevented by legislation. The policy
will be to carry out disposals through the
auction system except in special circum-
stances. Woolgrowers, if they have not
voted yet, should really think on this
one.
For two years it has been quite ob-
vious that some of the more ardent reser-
vists have been in favor of bulk selling of
bought-in wool by negotiation. But
direct questions on this subject have
usually brought the reply that “we would
work towards this as a long-term aim . . .
we could not start on this basis because
it would sound too much like acquisi-
tion”, and so on.
On a long-term basis one must con-
cede that perhaps there are some' ad-
vantages to bulk selling by negotiation.
This is not the point. Woolgrowers have


GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN U.S.A. LIMITED LIABILITY)
UNSECURED NOTES
yA
flo
o
m
So
SIX
YEARS
NINE
YEARS
TWELVE
YEARS
SHORT TERM
30-89 DAYS 5%
90-179 DAYS 5 1 / 2 %
180-269 DAYS 5¥ 4 %
270-360 DAYS 5%%
ONE YEAR 6%
TWO YEARS 6 1 / 4 %
MEDIUM TERM
THREE YEARS 6 1 / 2 %
SIX YEARS 7%
LONG TERM
NINE YEARS 7!4%
TWELVE YEARS 7 1 / 2 %
HOW TO APPLY
For your copy of the Prospectus and Application Form contact:
Members of the Stock Exchanges
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra
Applications will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to in and at-
tached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
been assured that what they are voting
on is a conservative reserve price scheme
which retains the auction system.
This one paragraph must raise grave
doubts. Lack of legislative control over
this aspect of the plan would give the
proposed marketing authority power to
bring in a form of acquisition any time
it likes. This, originally, was definitely
not the intention of the reserve plan
as presented to growers.
AGRISEARCH
Bulls for Better Beef
More lean , less fat than steers
\7'earling bulls grow more beef than
A steers where there is no shortage of
good feed. Moreover, more lean meat
and less fat can be cut from a young
bull’s carcass than from a steer’s. Oc-
casionally there may even be too little
fat to please the housewife’s eye. Usually
however, taste tests encompassing flavor,
toughness and appearance prove that
young bull beef is indistinguishable from
the meat obtained from steers of the same
age and feeding.
The Americans have been convinced
for some time that young bulls are a
better proposition for beef producers,
They have found that bulls grow faster
though eating no more than steers,
whether raised on the range, in a feed-lot,
or in carefully controlled feeding trials.
Parallel studies have now been carried
out in the Armidale district by the Uni-
versity of New England, with the mone-
tary support or the Cattle and Beef
Research Committee. This committee,
incidentally, has allotted more than £1
million to a wide range of research pro-
jects for the current financial year. Its
funds have swollen rapidly since the
first year of its operation, 1962-63, when
it had little more than a quarter of a
million to devote to research aimed at
helping the cattleman.
In the first Armidale trial, year-old
vealer calves reared as bulls weighed up
to 100 lb more than their steer herd
mates. These vealers were the progeny
of a beef bull and Red Poll cows. They
had been run on good pasture. The fol-
lowing year similar, though less spectac-
ular, results were obtained with Aberdeen
Angus cattle. In this season the winter
was a hard one and neither the bulls nor
the steers put on scarcely any weight
during the worst couple of months,
Hence the weight margin between them
was narrower. The third year's results,
recently announced, continue the trend,
The bulls and steers compared in this
latest trial belonged to a Hereford-Short-
horn herd that had the run of lighter
country. At slaughter, all the yearlings
weighed pretty much the same and the
bull carcasses tended to be rather too lean,
It would appear, therefore, that bull-beef
production needs a good feed supply if
its potential advantage is to be realised.
Also, it should suit producers of yearling
beef who are stocked with breeds that
tend to over-fatness. As in America, un-
fortunately, the snag at present seems to
be prejudice in the market-place.
Clover Disease
Subterranean clover is now considered
to be a probable cause of infertility
in cattle. Clover infertility disease, so-
called, was previously known to affect
only sheep in this country. The first ro


J. & J. NORTH
Established 1867
Members of The Sydney
Stock Exchange Limited
J. F. G. North, D. A. North
M. J. Hobbs, I. A. North
J. H. Valder
D. W, Guest
33 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
57 Hunter Street, Newcastle
GENERAL CREDITS
LIMITED
ASK MY BKMCM
OF THE G.B'A-
0
0
up to
5-10 years
DEBENTURE STOCK
(SECOND SERIES)
Applications can only proceed on the form
enclosed with the Prospectus which may be
obtained from any recognized stockbroker,
or any branch of the Commercial Bank of
Aust. Ltd., and all branches of
GENERAL
iWM
277 William St. Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
Underwriters:
lan Potter & Co.
6840
HEAD OFFICE
ACCOUNTANT
ROTHMANS OF PALL MALL (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Rothmans require a qualified and experienced accountant to
35 years of age for appointment as Head Office Accountant
experience with computers would be an advantage. The Head
Office is located at Granville, Sydney.
The successful applicant will be responsible to the Chief Accountant
for the accounting functions of the company's Head Office and Inter-
state Branches, including supervision of accounting staff and assisting in
the preparation of periodical financial budgets, accounts and reports.
The position offers excellent opportunities for advancement for a person
with drive and initiative.
A generous salary will be negotiated according to qualifications and
experience and will be subject to regular review. Participation in the
company's non-contributory superannuation scheme will be available after
a qualifying period of three months.
Applications will be treated with strictest confidence and should be
made in writing to:
"HEAD OFFICE ACCOUNTANT"
Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co.
82 Pitt Street, Sydney
port of cattle being subject to it has not
yet been proved with scientific certainty,
but the evidence collected so far is
strongly indicative. The one case inves-
tigated in some detail was in Tasmania,
where infertility has been a serious prob-
lem in cattle in the north-west of that
State. The herd suspected of being af-
fected by the female-like hormones pro-
duced by most legumes was grazing a
pasture which consisted of 80 p.c. of
subterranean clover of the Mount Barker
variety. Moreover, supplementary feed
offered the herd during autumn and win-
ter was mainly clover hay and clover
ensilage.
Infertility due to clover consumption
could be widespread, as many herd in-
fertility problems in Tasmania do not
appear to stem from venereal diseases
the usual sources. In the particular herd
studied by Mr R. I. Thain, a veterinary
officer of the Tasmanian Department of
Agriculture, no infective organisms had
appeared since 1960, yet infertility still
persists at a level that is pushing the
dairyfarmer toward bankruptcy. The
only other suggestions that plant hor-
mones might upset the reproductive per-
formance of cattle have come from
Germany, Italy and Israel. Lucerne was
blamed for the Jordan Valley case, but
this valuable legume has not been in-
criminated in any of the sheep infertility
problems encountered so far in Australia.
In the Tasmanian incident the whole
herd was affected mature cows, two-
year-old heifers and maiden yearlings.
There was some evidence, indeed, to sug-
gest that the infertility caused in the
heifers was of a rather permanent nature.
In sheep, so £ ar as is known, clover-in-
duced infertility is temporary, occurring
only while the sheep are actually grazing
the clover in its most active stages of
growth. They can be mated quite success-
fully soon after they have been switched
to a grass pasture or after the clover has
begun to dry off. Cattle may have a
higher threshold of susceptibility, but
once this is passed they may suffer more
serious damage than sheep. This could
account for the fact that clover infertility
in cattle has not appeared until now and
the suggestion that in them the trouble
lasts longer.


More Kalgoorlies and Isas
Some hints on mining prospects
By MICHAEL TERRY
A FTER three decades, on and off, chasing the elusive pennyweight, chiefly in the
Northern Territory, this prospector feels sure that Australia is far from exhausted
as an important world supplier of base metals. And to some extent this may also
apply to gold.
Search till lately has been superficial.
The old hand with his dolly-pot and pick
has pretty thoroughly checked exposures
on hillside and reef. The more easily dis-
coverable pay dirt has been pegged. Yet
there are surely great ore bodies which
do not poke their noses above the sur-
face.
Improved methods are today ushering
in another era. A new technique, em-
bodying geochemistry, aerial scintellom-
etry, and fieldwork directed by geolo-
gists who use the deep-probing drill more
than the pan, have made the original
fumblings completely out of date. All
this means far more costly prospecting,
demanding real substance in the explor-
ation companies. Yet it is inevitable to
reveal payable ore bodies.
Australia has a coastline of roughly
12,000 miles. Practically all the known
ore bodies are no more than 200 miles
from the shore. Notable exceptions are
Cobar (NSW), base metals; Tennant
Creek (NT), gold and copper; Jervois
Range (NT), copper; Arltunga (NT),
gold and mica: Tanami (NT), gold;
Peak Hill (WA), copper and manganese;
Hatches Creek (NT), tungsten, and the
northern part of the eastern goldfields
(WA) in the Menzies-Leonora-Laverton
sector.
Broadly speaking, within the 200-mile
limit, about one quarter of the continent
possesses the known and discoverable ore
bodies. Because phosphate in beach sands
or sedimentary basins must be admitted,
such places as the Nullarbor Plain, the
80 Mile Beach (Broome, WA) 'and the
90 Mile Beach (Sale, Vic.) are not ex-
cluded.
Rewarding orthodox mineral search
beyond my arbitrary limit is restricted
by the huge artesian basins, such as the
Great Artesian Basin of Queensland,
NSW and SA, the Canning Basin of WA,
the Ord-Victoria basin of NT-WA, the
Amadeus Basin of NT, the Eucla Basin
of SA-WA, the Murray Basin of Vic.-
NSW, and two or three minor ones.
Even in these, there is a chance of com-
ing across efflorescent deposits such as
potassium nitrate. Some years ago I
found encouraging evidence of it west of
Alice Springs, in Ordovician sandstone.
Useful rock salt has also been found
south of the same place.
Some years ago the South Australian
Mines Department reported nitrate in the
salt of Lake Eyre. Evidently it was not
commercial or we would have heard
more of it. Yet it is a pointer that testing
of inland dry salt lakes could be reward-
ing, especially those adjacent to sedimen-
tary rocks with some nitrate.
Promising places I know for base
metals and gold are down south, on the
west coast of Tasmania and centred
about Queenstown. Next is Whyalla in
Victoria. Doubtless the wild range
country encircling this tiny township
holds many hidden bodies yet to be
pegged. How the pioneers of the ’eighties
battled into that wilderness almost baffles
imagination; today the picture changes.
The Forestry Department improves
access by bulldozing roads for fire con-
trol and to get at huge timber reserves.
Here, at the beginning of the Great
Dividing Range, the prospector can now
go much of his way by Land Rover. If
he is prepared to fan out from camp on
foot, an exciting new mineral world
awaits his pick phosphate, gold, base
metals, quicksilver and asbestos.
The western flank of the Blue Moun-
tains is currently under detailed survey.
Centred upon Bathurst, search is being
made for gold, copper and black sands.
I know of one place, worked by Chinese
in the early days of Hill End, where
there is a reserve of creek wash with
very good gold values plus ilmenite
awaiting modern hydraulic treatment.
Sometimes I wonder how much gold has
been built into the Burrendong Dam,
across the Macquarie River at Dubbo.
The old channel of this river was deeply
scored out by bulldozers to provide spoil
for the earth bank which, post-drought,
will establish irrigation farming towards
Narroniine.
Further afield my fancy includes Cape
York, north of the Townsville-Hughen-
den road. Inland from Cairns, on the
Atherton Tableland, there is established
mineralisation, which the old hands, 70
years or more ago, worked primitively.
I like also the country around Gympie,
halfway between Brisbane and Bunda-
berg. The rich gold mines were flooded
out when workings descended below the
Mary River which passes through the
town. Modern pumps can cope with water
far beyond the capacity of those our
fathers used.
There is little doubt that the ranges
east and north from Mount Isa will, de-
spite their wild inaccessibility, some day
reveal significant new ore bodies. After
all, the locals were sitting on silver-lead
and copper for years, till suddenly
uranium was found at Mary Kathleen. A
large iron deposit is known thereabouts,
although too high in phosphorus for
easy smelting. But the suspicion is that,
as Mount Isa changed from surface-lead
to deep copper, this range may change to
silver-lead at depth.
My acquaintance with Mount Isa dates
back to 1923, just after Miles and Simp-
son found a hillside silver-lead outcrop
near the Duchess-Camooweal track.
Cattlemen, bringing beasts in from the
Barkly Tableland to the railway, told my
mate and me about the find, scarcely
bothering to conceal contempt. After all,


FC/v
of Australia Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DEBENTURE
STOCK
7k
PER ANNUM 6 YEARS
11l
PER ANNUM 4 YEARS
6k
PER ANNUM 2 YEARS
6„
PERANNUM 12 MONTHS
5k
PER ANNUM 6 MONTHS
3
0
PER ANNUM 9 AND 10 YEARS
bh
PER ANNUM 9 MONTHS
4k
PER ANNUM 3 MONTHS
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only on the printed form referred
to in and attached to the prospectus. Prospectuses and forms of application should
be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier.
NIN. 2
stockmen went on for ever but mad
prospectors shot through every day.
Nevertheless we called on the finders of
what has proved to be one of the great
mines of the world. They had pegged
only “The Racecourse Mine” at Lagoon
Creek and welcomed our interest; they
wanted others to peg alongside to draw
attention to their finds. To us, watching
them bag the first ore at the hillside, it
was another gougers’ show like the strug-
gling copper miners around Cloncurry.
Our eyes were on Broome, in what be-
came the first motor-crossing of the north
continent. So we cranked up and drove
away from a fortune.
I am attracted to the Batchelor-Pine
Creek belt south of Darwin. Uranium,
copper, phosphate, tin and gold are
already known in it. During the last war
Major Schwenkie, surveying east of Bat-
chelor, picked up 12 cwt of surface rock
which rendered 12 ounces of gold at the
Marranboy battery. On part of an off-
Sunday. during the wartime construction
of the Stua.. t Highway, McManus, a
Department of Main Roads (NSW)
employee, panned 5i dwts near Hayes
Creek for a new set of false teeth.
His mate, Tom Bissell, got a color in
every shovel and sold his parcel for £5O.
Charlie Timmins averaged 10s. of gold
for every 30 minutes worked fair
enough dough without proper tools.
A vaporous question mark, like the
mirage, hovers over the Tanami-
Graphites area of Centralia. There is no
doubt it is auriferous country, proved
since 1900. I sank north of No. 1 Granite
in 1928 till we bottomed in the Golden
Hole. Five years later Chapman, primar-
ily a Queensland well-sinker, went
through that false bottom and got on to
the real stuff. Since then £245,000 worth
of gold has been mined there, principally
by my successor before he died.
The same applied at Tennant Creek.
I was one of the earliest on that field
when it broke in 1953, but did not peg.
The occurrence seemed to be auriferous
only around the core of an ancient min-
eral spring. Yet optimists carried on, till
eventually a most unusual haematite
lode with lenticular gold veins was
proved. Latterly copper has come into the
picture. About £3O million-worth of both
minerals has now been mined.
A 300-mile track is being opened up
from the Tennant to Tanami. I would
not be the least surprised to hear of a
new strike, especially in the country on
the final stage to Tanami. Much of it is
open low rises of gravel and fine quartz,
of the sort which catches a gold-man's
eye at once. It is really “kindly” country.
Very similar is an area at the western
end of the great Macdonnell Ranges,
where Alice Springs is the midway oasis
town. Recently I got colors in beautiful-
looking creek float, near similar open
gravel ridges.
The Murranji Track, from Newcastle
Waters to the Victoria River where a
beef road is planned, near the Dry
River, possesses several copper showings.
In 1923 I got secondary specimens which
assayed 54.95 per cent. Although ?. min-
ing company has since run the rule over
the area and decided that it is “squibby”,
nevertheless they may not have found my
g j te J J y
Near Copley, in South Australia, I
have seen really freak alluvial gold. It is
well known that you can get the yellow
metal in anything from sandstone to
granite. I had never heard of it in gyp-
sum. Yet there it was sometimes as
large as pigeo is’ eggs and quite smooth.
Obviously the gold had travelled a long
way. Detailed geological work could
establish the parent formation from which
this curious alluvial has been shed,
xu
These are my conclusions following
years of operating for mining companies.
After leading 14 expeditions, one learns
to recognise likely country and where
further effort should be applied.


THE SOUTH BRITISH INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Address to Shareholders by the Chairman,
Mr. Kenneth B. Myers,
at the Annual General Meeting, held at the Head Office
of the Company,
Auckland, New Zealand, on 25th November, 1965
Ladies and Gentlemen,
It is with considerable pleasure that
your Directors present for your adoption
today statements of account which contain
a number of noteworthy features.
First, your Group earned a record profit
of £1,520,090 which exceeds last year’s
figure by £267,000 and surpasses the
previous peak established in 1962 by over
£lOO,OOO. Second, underwriting profit—
as represented by transfers from consoli-
dated revenue accounts to Profit and Loss
Account improved by no less than
£165,000 to £658,432, a figure which
under present-day conditions can rightly
be regarded as very satisfactory indeed.
Third, income from investments, net of
tax, advanced by £137,000 to £1,079,000
thereby exceeding the million pound mark
for the first time, and fourth, Group
premium income increased by over
£1,350,000 to a figure in excess of
£17,000,000.
DIVIDEND
Following payment of an interim divi-
dend of 6d. per share, your Board are of
the opinion that the improvement in over-
all profit warrants an increased distribu-
tion to shareholders and accordingly
recommend for your approval a final
dividend of lOd. per share, making a total
of Is. 4d. for the year which will
absorb altogether only £30,000 short of
£1,000,000.
TRADING REVIEW
The expansion of total premium in-
come combined with a modest decline in
the ratio which incurred losses bear to
earned premiums will indicate to you that
Group operations during the year con-
tinued on sound and progressive lines.
Development has been proportional to
each of the underwriting accounts so that
the balance of the portfolio as a whole
has not been impaired.
We still look upon the Fire department
as the mainstay of our business and are
hopeful that measures sponsored by British
companies to correct the adverse trend
which had developed in the United King-
dom will not only bear fruit but also
serve as an example and a reminder to
other markets of the world.
In relation to its size, the Marine
account produced an outturn that was
very satisiactory, mainly because of im-
proved results from cargo business. This
was most apparent in the United King-
dom, the improvement in other fields being
on a more modest scale.
The Accident account continues to be
dominated by Motor and Workmen's
Compensation business from which better
than marginal returns are rarely achieved,
but the diversity of other classes of busi-
ness w'hich we write in tnis department,
exposes the overall Accident account to
fluctuating results. All these factors stress
the necessity for economic and efficient
management and it is accordingly a
source ol some satisfaction that tne in-
crease in the loss ratio for this department
was offset by reductions in expense and
commission ratios.
There has been some improvement in
results from our operations in the United
Kingdom which of course include business
accepted in that market in the ordinary
course of international reinsurance ex-
changes. Reinsurance protection in one
form or another is necessary for our day-
to-day operations. By arranging this
internationally, we are placed in the
position of being able to accept in return
reinsurance from companies in various
parts of the world, thus not only widening
the spread of our portfolio, but also
affording indirect access to other markets
where for one reason or another it may
not be feasible or prudent to establish
branches or agencies of our own.
Elsewhere, our branches in India, Paki-
stan and the Far East showed a gratifying
improvement in their contribution to
Group profit and notwithstanding the
incidence of bush fires in Australia, the
pattern of steady consistency was main-
tained there as well as in Africa and New
Zealand.
Although there have been minor varia-
tions in departmental results returned by
individual companies within the Group, it
is indeed pleasing that all have contributed
to the increased underwriting profit.
Insurance is both a long-term and inter-
national business, two characteristics which
expose it to adverse trends not always
readily discernible, and to political un-
certainties which cannot be anticipated or
controlled. While we hope for another
year of profitable trading, it is as well to
remember that as we do not enjoy the
advantage of operating in protected mar-
kets, the elements of uncertainty to which
I have just referred should not be over-
looked. We realise, too, that in many parts
of the world we have to justify our con-
tinuing presence by the efficiency of our
service and by our willingness to co-oper-
ate with the governments of the countries
concerned.
In most markets in which we operate,
competition continues on an unabated
scale; indeed in some instances it has even
increased through the entry of institutions
which have never before transacted fire,
marine or accident insurance.
Established companies have built up
their portfolios by the efficiency of their
service, the prompt and fair settlement of
claims, the ability and courtesy of their
staff and the wealth of experience ac-
quired over the years. Individually and
Continued on next page


collectively, these factors represent an
incalculable asset and underline the im-
portance we attach to the personal and
cordial relations which exist between
Group companies and policyholders
throughout the many territories in which
we transact business.
INVESTMENTS
The increased return from investments
arises from the growth of our portfolio, the
generally higher pattern of interest rates
prevailing during the year, progressively
increasing rentals as recently completed
buildings become fully occupied and a full
year’s investment income from Eastern
United which became a wholly-owned sub-
sidiary during the previous year.
Higher interest rates reflect a strong
demand for contracting supplies of finance,
all too frequently caused by restraints
imposed to relieve international balance
of payments difficulties. It is to be hoped
a satisfactory solution will be found to
international liquidity problems and so
facilitate the flow' of international trade
and thereby assist in stabilising interest
rates.
The obverse of rising interest rates is
falling security values and under such con-
ditions liquid funds held by the Group in
excess of definite commitments have been
allowed to accumulate for deployment to
best advantage as time and opportunity
offer.
With the exception of the United States
and Canada, there has been a fall in
values, which has varied in different
countries, of the prices of ordinary shares
of public companies. While opportunity
was accepted whenever it arose to take
advantage of the fall in prices to w'hat
could be called more realistic and certainly
more attractive levels, yet it has been con-
sidered wise to maintain a more liquid
position which explains to some extent
the increase in the Consolidated Balance
Sheet of nearly £1,000,000 under the
heading of Cash in Banks and at Call,
Short-dated Investments, etc.
To a large degree, these funds have been
placed on short-term deposit at attractive
rates of interest.
A.M.P. FIRE AND GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANIES
As most of you are aware, South British
was appointed managing agent of the
A.M.P. Society’s w'holly-owned fire and
general subsidiary company in New
Zealand some years ago and a similar
appointment was accepted by United in
respect of the A.M.P. Society’s Australian
subsidiary. The merger of United with
South British meant, in effect, that your
Group became managers of the Society’s
non-life business written through the
Society’s two subsidiaries.
Growth of your Group’s business on
the one hand and of the Society’s non-
life business on the other hand, has been
such that, as publicly announced last
January, it has been mutually agreed that
the Society should assume responsibility
for the management of its non-life sub-
sidiaries. Arrangements are accordingly in
hand for a planned transfer of control
which it is expected will be completed in
course of the next 18 months.
This is a perfectly logical development
and from our point of view will facilitate
greater co-ordination of your Group’s
activities, particularly in Australia. With
this object in view, it was decided to
appoint a Group Inspector of Branches
in Australia and Mr. K. W. Wilson has
assumed that position.
UNION AND NATIONAL
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
In amplification of the statement in the
Report of the Directors regarding the
Union & National Insurance Co. Ltd., we
acquired a majority shareholding in this
South African company in 1924 when it
ran into difficulties only a few years after
its establishment.
Since then, it has been nurtured and
guided by the South British, has gained
in strength and stature and particularly in
more recent years has been a very useful
contributor to Group profits. However,
in the climate of opinion prevailing in
South Africa in recent years, including a
natural desire to foster and strengthen
development of a national insurance mar-
ket, it was considered the time had arrived
to enhance Union & National’s character
and standing by widening its element of
South African shareholding.
It was accordingly decided during the
year to revise the capital structure of
Union & National, to retain your Com-
pany’s controlling interest but to reduce
its holding by sale of shares to selected
South African institutions and individuals
and thereafter to apply for listing on the
Johannesburg Stock Exchange. As at
balance date this year, only a portion of
the shares had been placed, so that the
remainder of the transactions involved
will be reflected in next year’s accounts.
I am very happy to be able to inform
you that since balance date the arrange-
ments for capital reconstruction have been
completed and listing on the Stock Ex-
change of South Africa accorded a very
favourable reception. It will be of interest
to mention that Union & National is the
first fire and general insurance company
to be listed on the South African Stock
Exchange.
It is a pleasure, also, to add that
two prominent South African gentlemen,
Messrs Andre J. du Toit and H. E. van
Santen, accepted invitations to join, and
thereby strengthen, Union & National’s
Board; on the other hand, it is with regret
that we recently received news of the
death of a Director of long standing, Mr.
D. P. McDonald.
PROPERTIES
Two years ago I intimated the end was
in sight of our building programme to
provide the majority of our branches in
Australia and New Zealand with perman-
ent accommodation in modern premises
with up-to-date amenities and equipment.
Further progress was made during the
year by the complete re-modelling of our
Geelong premises which will house an
integrated South British/United branch.
During the year your Board took ad-
vantage of the opportunity which arose
simultaneously to acquire the two proper-
ties in Shortland Street which adjoin Head
Office building on the west side. Plans are
under consideration for re-development of
these properties to provide, in conjunction
with our existing building, much needed
additional accommodation for the Guard-
ian Trust as well as for the Company.
Consideration is also being given to the
provision of more suitable accommodation
for the Melbourne and Brisbane branches
of the United Insurance Company.
DIRECTORATE
Since I last addressed you, Mr. E. H.
Nolan attained the age limit specified in
the Articles of Association and accordingly
retired., from the Board on 31st August. I
welcome this opportunity to pay tribute
to the services rendered by Mr. Nolan and
it is a source of satisfaction that his long
association with the Company will be
actively continued in his capacity as
Chairman of the Guardian Trust.
Mr. J. B. Horrocks was appointed to
fill the vacancy created by Mr. Nolan’s
retirement and in accordance with the
Articles of Association, a resolution con-
firming his appointment will be put to you
at this Meeting.
STAFF
It is no exaggeration to say your Com-
pany’s most valuable asset is its staff and
the figures before you are an eloquent
testimonial of their worth. The insurance
industry is passing through a difficult and
exacting phase and it is largely due to
the efforts of the staff that your Company
has been able to achieve such satisfactory
results.
In these circumstances, your Board had
no hesitation in making provision in the
accounts for payment of a staff bonus and
are confident their action will be warmly
endorsed by this Meeting.


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION UMITED
Incorporated under the Companies
Act of N.S.W., on Bth March, 1950.
: >V
DEBENTURE
STOCK
■■
■ v v: =;■
0
4,6 or 10 YEARS
Applications can only be accepted on the form
attached to, and referred to in, the Prospectus.
HOW TO INVEST
Application form and Prospectus may be obtained
from:
• Any Branch of the BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
• Any member of the Stock Exchange
• THE COMPANY’S OFFICES:
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone 27-8621.
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Canberra, Newcastle.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION
LIMITED
Cambridge House, 243 George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, without obligation, a
copy of your prospectus.
8.676
NAME
ADDRESS
21828
INVESTMENT
Uneasy Thoughts for EZ
Dependent on the zinc cookie
Omall wonder that the shares of EZ
lndustries were so much weaker on
the market after the annual meeting last
week. Chairman Mr E. Cohen told
shareholders that profits were some
£170,000 lower in the first four months
of the current year. If this trend con-
tinues, there will be little hope of
another 18 p.c. dividend. It was lifted
to this rate from 13 p.c. in 1964-65.
However, the big £3,931,000 profit rep-
resented only 21.8 p.c. on capital not
a particularly wide cover for such a high
payout.
Mr Cohen blamed most of the setback
on the higher costs for zinc concentrates.
Fortunately, the exports of finished zinc
have been higher in the current year.
Yet the outlook still remains a little
uncertain. Prices realised for zinc play
a big part in profits and the demand in
markets outside the US has shown an
easing tendency. Grade premiums for
the concentrates which the company
buys are suffering from downward
pressure and the terms under which the
company will buy its raw material have
yet to be set for 1966. It would seem
that this cost will prove the more
determining factor for profits over the
rest of the year, as in the first four
months.
The export scene shows little sign of
offsetting any increased costs from this
source. Although the group hopes to be-
come a modest supplier to the US
market (where producers’ stocks are
currently very low), it has already lost
some other exports to Japan. The Jap-
anese only recently emerged as zinc ex-
porters; they have managed to do very
well in markets which are closer to
Japan than Australia. EZ’s exports to
India have increased, but the country's
money problems, aggravated by the Pak-
istan conflict, have now resulted in the
virtual suspension of import licences for
zinc.
All in all, EZ does not have extra
bright prospects when, compared with the
1964-65 year. There are, however, a lot
of “ifs” ahead which could rectify the
situation. And, even if the cookie
crumbles the wrong way, profits should
still be very buoyant.
Behind the Smoke Screen
preliminary report from British
A Tobacco Co. (Aust.) Ltd on the
parent profit for the year to October 31
highlights more than anything the tardi-
ness in presentation of group figures—
usually at the end of February.
In this computer age a speedier ac-
counting procedure might be expected,
even if the public is well aware of the
diversification moves into soft drinks,
snack foods and ice-cream which must
complicate the job.
Failing improvement in this, directors
could offer some generalised information
on subsidiaries’ activities, to fill the
three months’ vacuum until group resuits
are ready.
The parent profit just announced was
£2.2m. (up £139,000 or 6.6 p.c.) on the
1963-64 result. The group result last
year was £2,989,397. after outside inter-
ests of £128,707 but before setting aside
£316,532 for “other provisions”, and not
including a capital profit of £207,629.
Profit of the parent, which does not
trade, only represents dividends from
subsidiaries, always just enough to cover
the dividends —this year up from 10 to
11 p.c. and absorbing £2.172,227. This
includes £lll,lBB for preference capital.
The group’s many interesting and
imaginative moves outside tobacco and
cigarettes in the last two years or so
were dispelling the image of a stodgy old
firm caught flat-footed by Rothmans in
the ’sos. It is a pity to spoil the new
image by poor or tardy reporting.
Bountiful Year
As the dust from the Cresco auction
settled, investors learned of a 29 p.c.
profit increase by Australian Fertilizers
Ltd in the year to June 30. Earnings of
£454,039 compare with £352,811 in
1963-64 and £160,232 in 1960-61.
Now a partly-owned subsidiary of
ICIANZ, the company is changing its
balance back to September 30 to fall into
line with the parent. Profit for the Sep-
tember quarter was a mere £7575; al-
though this is traditionally a slack quarter,
sales were affected by the drought this
year.
Australian Fertilizers’ sales rose 54 p.c.
in the first quarter of 1964-65, so it will
be interesting to learn of the increases
in the remainder of the trading period.
The Government superphosphate
bounty of £3 per ton granted in the
1963 Budget is responsible for the
dynamism in the industry, which for
the three years prior to that date exhibited
only very moderate growth. But in
1963-64 the NSW market grew by 35 p.c.
to 660,000 tons, which was the limit of
capacity of its two producers.
Australian Fertilizers increased its pro-


NEW ADDITION TO
RANGE OF TABLE WINES
ST. CORA
WHITE
BURGUNDY
The new addition to Lindeman’s
popular range of Table Wines is
a pleasant dry white wine with a
soft round character and flavour.
It will accompany all sea foods,
salads and light meat dishes, and
is best served chilled.
fVvfMA VS .
/ WWXfe KIVI.k yiNESMfci
LIN DEMANS’
STCORA, WHITE
burgundy
wo£*anj wwts nt; ttx>
’ SXbHt'f
NfT:'Yw. ifL.mi
• - ■ ■’
1 :;4
New Issue
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
AND UNSECURED NOTES
01 dfl
IS3H3INI
PER
ANNUM
Applications for Debentures and Notes only accepted on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from!
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch.
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
AGC House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
ASK THE ‘WALES' FOR DETAILS
NDJS.N.
ductive capacity in 1963-64 from 250,000
to 400,000 tons a year. Even this was
insufficient to satisfy demand, so new
units will add to capacity next year.
In the latest September quarter, the
adverse seasonal conditions have caused
a build-up of stock. The company has
maintained production to avoid shortages
next autumn.
Political Cut
Another Holden dealer has reported
difficult trading. Melbourne - based
Southern Motors has reduced interim
dividend from 7i to 5 p.c. after lower
sales and profits in the six months to
the end of October. Directors anticipate
further reductions in profitability as
competition continues to be keen,
aggravated by the large stocks of both
the manufacturer and the retailers.
Moreover, the reduction in sales has
come at a time when the firm is trying
to cope with rising costs. Although ex-
penses have been cut where practicable,
they were still higher in the six months.
Fortunately, the company is one of
the few dealers which can withstand
substantial setbacks, mainly because the
temptations to issue too much capital for
expansion when times were good have
been kept sanely in check. The 1964-65
profit of £103,000 equalled 33.4 p.c. on
capital and total dividend was 17i p.c.
Considering these high earnings, the
latest dividend cut would seem to be
mainly a political move, in line with
and in support of the chairman’s plea
for a reduction in sales tax.
Still Excellent
/ Considering the amazing jump in
sales, the small profit lift achieved
by ICIANZ in the 12 months to Sep-
tember 30 leaves a little to be desired.
Sales rose from £B3 million to £ll2
million, but the profit gained only
slightly from £4,537,000 to £4,606,000.
This equals 11.1 p.c. on higher capital
and adequately covers the 1\ p.c.
dividend.
Before being too critical of the result,
three points should be noted. First, the
sales jump indicates that the group is
meeting competition successfully and
growing rapidly. Secondly, the year was
plagued with the costs and time-con-
suming problems of several new pro-
jects, some of which have yet to con-
tribute to profits. Finally and most im-
portantly, the small increase was
achieved in spite of the fact that profits
at the half-way mark were down by 30
p.c. on the previous year. In the light of
these factors, the result must be con-
sidered no less than excellent.


I
>
■
H
-V , -
K
■
I
/
4
I
w
I
m
k
r
Trains
take the tension
out of travel
Even before the journey starts the tensions have gone, dissolved in the
salve of familiars long since associated with rail travel the certainty of
relaxation and comfort, of safety, of a passing parade of scenic interest,
of reaching a destination at a known time. And always, of course, the
freedom from financial strain. Mile for mile, train travel remains the most
economical of them all.
In place of travel tensions there are the travel pleasures the cosiness
of comfy seats from which to view the scenery . . . the ability to catch up
with your reading, sleep . . . the simple pleasure of being able to stretch
your legs while travelling . . . the meals and refreshments served in buffet
diners, or at your seat. And, on nearly all Australia's mainline trains, the
superb air-conditioning.
So next time you travel, just don’t go to get there. Live a little as you
travel and enjoy yourself a lot. Next time go by train.
0
RAILWAYS of AUSTRALIA
Inserted by Authority of the Commissioners of the Commonwealth and State Railway Systems of Australia


SECURITY ANALYSIS
The Sole Victorian Brewer
Carlton and United’s famous “Z” shares
rpßE brewers which have been examined
A in the last three articles have been
operating in a competitive situation. Al-
though there is no competition so far as
the price of the product is concerned,
the brewers of New South Wales and
Queensland have to compete with each
other for the available customers. It
seems that the main way of doing this is
to provide the largest number of outlets
for beer that is, tc provide hotels
where their beer can be sold exclusively.
In the other States, competition is
either non-existent (as in Victoria) or is
very slight (as in South Australia).
The first thing that strikes us when
looking at Carlton and United Breweries
Ltd is that the shares in the hands of the
public, the “Z” shares, have only been
listed for just under eighteen months.
Prior to June, 1964, they were traded on
the Unofficial List; while there are no
statistics available on this trading, it was
probably reasonably active The company
was formed in 1907 to merge six Vic-
torian brewery companies. The result of
this move was a drastic rationalisation,
for, out of the six breweries, four were
closed and the remaining two brewed the
beer for all. This process was continued
over the years.
Apart from being the Victorian mono-
polist, CUB provides competition in
Queensland and the Northern Territory,
where its breweries compete with Castle-
maine Perkins and Swan Brew’ery respec-
tively. It also brews beer in Fiji, where it
is in partnership with W. R. Carpenter
and Co., and it is believed to have quite
a substantial export trade in “packaged”
beer. It has developed a new hop extract
process and the rights to the process in
the USA have been sold. Just over two
years ago it acquired from Fibre Con-
tainers a majority share interest in Her-
cules Fibre Containers, a company which
had been producing CUB's requirements
of corrugated cartons.
These last two interests suggest that
CUB has been actively seeking out
methods of saving on “raw material”
costs as well as expending considerable
amounts on modernising its various
breweries. At the present time, most of
the future expenditure seems likely to be
concentrated at Abbotsford, where a new
bottling hall and a new fermentation
block are under construction, A new
storage block and new brewing equipment
are expected to cost in the vicinity of
£1.75 million. During 1964/5 the com-
pany also spent more then £215,000 in
rebuilding and remodelling its hotels.
However, it seems that the company has
not been able to contain costs, for the
chairman also stated that a small increase
in the wholesale price of the company’s
products had become necessary; this in-
crease took effect from November 4,
1965. The New South Wales brewers
recently obtained (for the first time in
five years) an increase in the wholesale
price of roughly Id. per gallon on draught
beer and 2d. a gallon on bottled beer.
While there is no price control in Vic-
toria as there is in New South Wales, it
would be surprising if the increase just
made by CUB does not correspond quite
closely with the New South Wales in-
crease. In this event, the increase should
have the effect of increasing CUB’s
earnings per share by about 7 p.c. in a
full year— assuming that the increase
only applies to the beer sold in Victoria.
other event likely to affect the
A short-term future of CUB is the im-
pending increase in licensing hours in Vic-
toria. The consumption of beer in Vic-
toria has been almost equally divided
between bulk and “packaged” beer, while
in New South Wales packaged beer rep-
resents only about 25 p.c. of the total
beer sold. This may be due to different
tastes of the beer-drinking population,
but it is much more likely to be due to
10 o'clock closing since, in Queensland,
where the hotels are also open in the
evening, less than 30 p.c. of the total beer
consumed is in packaged form. As bottled
beer in Victoria costs about 6s. 7!d. more
per dozen bottles than the equivalent
quantity of draught beer, there is every
possibility that it is rather more profitable
than draught. Even with the expensive
bottling equipment which the brewers
are now installing, it is unlikely that each
bottle costs in excess of 6!d.
In trying to assess the future prospects
of CUB, we have the same problem as
with the other brewing companies in that
it is not possible even to guess at the
likely breakup of profit between brewing
profit and hotel-rental profit. It seems
likely that CUB does not own as many
hotels as Tooth or even Tooheys; now
that it has a monopoly in Victoria, one
wonders why it should own any hotels
at all. Hotels have not been regarded as
highly profitable ventures for some years
now. A similar problem arises in the
comparison of earnings, although CUB’s
tax provision does not seem to have been
greatly overstated in the past and in the
last year it seems to have been under-
stated. If the method used in the other
articles is applied to the published results
of CUB, the earning rates would be as
follows:
1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
18.7 18.1 17.4 20.8 22.1
An additional complication arises in
CUB’s figures, as the depreciation pro-
vision appears to have been overstated by
about £200,000 in 1963/4 relative to
the preceding and subsequent years. If
an adjustment was made for this factor
also, the earning rate for 1963/4 would
become 23.4 p.c. This does seem to be a
rather big increase on the rate for the
preceding year, yet the increase in the
wholesale price of beer made in July,
1963, would have accounted for quite
a large part of the increase.
Another interesting feature is the rising
dividend rate. From 1958/9 to 1962/3
inclusive, a steady 12 p.c. rate was paid;
in 1963/4 the rate was increased to 12 J
p.c. and to 13 p.c. last year. The payout
last year was covered If times by the
disclosed earnings, so there is plenty of
scope for further increases in the rate.
Currently the shares (the “Z” ones)
are selling at 775. to show an immediate
dividend yield of 3.4 p.c. and an earnings
yield, based on the adjusted figyre, of
5.7 p.c. Perhaps now that both CUB and
Tooheys will benefit from a wholesale
price increase this year, it is right that
they should be priced on an equal basis
so far as earnings are concerned. How-
ever, there has not been any suggestion
that CUB will make a bonus issue of
“Z” shares.
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (£'000)
Year to June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 4460 5308 5487 5944 6050
Current liabilities 3624 6251 6008 6193 6158
Net working capital 836 (943) (521) (249) (108)
Land and buildings 14263 20777 22345 22913 23700
Plant and machinery 7013 8323 7947 8250 9193
Investments ‘ 267 271 262 222 222
Deferred assets 250 1204 981 1059 945
Queensland brewery 4620 — — — —
Total capital 27249 30575 31535 32444 34060
Represented by:
Negative working
capital — 943 521 249 108
Loan capital 1506 1508 1772 1548 1719
Minority interests 34 35 34 26 28
Participating pref. 300 300 300 300 300
Ordinary " 2625 2625 2625 3938 3938
"Z" 10111 11377 11510 11529 11529
Reserves 12673 13787 14773 14854 16438
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES (£'000)
Depreciation -860 1085 1095 1338 1171
Tax provided 1480 1880 1818 2536 2594
Earnings 2085 2677 2625 3150 3583
Dividends 1460 1669 1732 1806 2050
Surplus 625 1008 893 1344 1533
Earning rate p.c. 19.8 19.2 18.2 21.8 22.7
Dividend rate p.c. 12.0 12.0 12.0 12.5 13.0
Dividend yield p.c. (a) not available 3.3 3.4
High price (b) not available 84/3 877-
L.ow price (b) not available 68/- 66/6
(a) Based on average of high and low prices.
(b) Calendar year. Prices are not available prior
to the listing of the "Z" shores in June, 1964.


Invest in
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
DEBENTURE STOCK
o
f
2
O
(SECOND SERIES)
7% 4 YEARS
61% 3 YEARS
61% 2 YEARS
•
51% 12 MONTHS
FOR S YEARS
A.N.Z. or
HOW to Op ply Applications will be
accepted only on the printed forms attached to the Prospectus.
Your copy available from all Members of Stock Exchanges, all
Branches of the A.N.Z. Bank and I.A.C.
UNDERWRITERS lAN ROTTER & CO.
M80
National Bank in the Vice
Controls put up charges , cut profits
By ROGER RANDERSON
At a time when banks are hamstrung
in efforts to finance private enter-
prise, when interest rates and other
charges are the highest they have been
for more than a generation, the National
Bank’s chairman has to plead for an
improvement in bank income.
No tears need be shed for those banks
which knuckle down too readily to the
policy of nationalisation by stealth,
although all banks certainly have an
unanswerable case for higher earnings
as a partial offset to increased costs, as
Mr Forrest claims.
But the cause of free enterprise, as
the mainspring of national progress, is
threatened by the present drastic con-
trols over public banking companies
and the ineffectual writhings of the banks
to find some relief.
The chairman of the National Bank of
Australasia Ltd a Melbourne-based
bank that has played its part in Aus-
tralia’s industrial development for the
past 107. year a brief but gloomy
tale to tell his shareholders on Novem-
ber 24.
Consolidated net profit fell by
£121,036 to £1,336,048 in the year
ended September 30. This was barely
sufficient to maintain the 10 p.c. dividend
and left the bank with only £74,918 to
add to its reserves.
It is true that a trading bank (more
concerned than non-banking institutions
to finance men on the land) must take
knocks during one of the worst droughts
in our history.
True it is, also, that the dividend from
the bank’s 40 p.c. interest in Custom
Credit Corporation fell by £80,000,
bringing the aggregate decline in revenue
from this source to £160.000 in the past
two years.
The past year’s decline in the
“National’s” consolidated net profit
occurred despite an increase of £55,786
to £235,782 in the stated profit of its
savings bank subsidiary.
Thus, it appears that the bank, in its
primary and most essential field of com-
mercial banking, suffered a decline in
profit of £96,822 to £780,266.
Let us consider some of the implica-
tions. The public, in 1964-65, entrusted
a further £21 million to bring the
National Bank's assets to £441 million
(excluding investments in subsidiaries
and Custom Credit Corporation). Net
return to the bank from these assets was
only eighteen hundredths of one p.c. per
annum.
Relative to shareholders’ funds of
£22,432.994, the year’s earnings from
commercial banking were less than 3)
p.c. per annum. (Even the stingy Mr
C'hifley, as a banking commissioner
during the difficult ’thirties, thought five
p.c. reasonable for a trading bank.)
The National Bank, but for the
Custom Credit dividend and profits from
its savings bank subsidiary, would have
been forced to cut its dividend to six p.c.
or less, because earnings from com-
mercial banking were scarcely more than
this on paid-up capital of £12,611,296.
(Eight p.c. for a trading bank dividend
would not have raised Chifiey’s ire in
the ’thirties.)
Mr Forrest touched, but all too lightly,
on the failure of public banking com-
panies to finance private businesses on
the scale appropriate for a small, young
nation needing (for reasons of external
security) the most rapid expansion of
production from relatively large natural
resources.
He came near to stating that the banks
are being forced by “drastic controls over
their intake, output and price” to levy
interest rates and charges that are “ex-


FEDERATED INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Mr. N. A. Pardoe.
Annual Meeting of Shareholders, 29th November, 7965
Address of the Chairman and Managing Director,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The year ended 30th June, 1965, for
which you have the Company’s Accounts
and Directors’ Report, was one of progress
and consolidation of the Group.
The subsidiaries engaged in electrical and
electronic manufacturing activities air-
conditioning and merchandising showed
satisfactory improvement in turnover and
earnings, and ended the year with increased
totals of forward business. However, these
gains were partly offset by the cost of
reorganising the mechanical engineering
division, the completion of which was
finalised during the year.
Shareholders were advised in last year’s
report of the decision to discontinue general
and jobbing engineering and confine
mechanical engineering to proprietary lines
of equipment and I am now able to advise
that the former programme was terminated
in February last. Difficulty was experienced
in maintaining an adequate labour force
during the final stages of the programme
and this necessitated the sub-contracting of
portion of the work and added to the costs
involved.
It is pleasing tq be able to report that
the new programme which operated from
March to June was profitable and that a
substantial amount of business is in hand.
The electrical equipment manufacturing
activities continued to expand and the pro-
gress of this division into the more sophisti-
cated electric and electronic controls and
systems, resulted in increased sales and
earnings.
Research and development carried out
during the year added significantly to the
range and application of the Company’s
products and in the adaptation of equipment
produced under licence.
A new factory was acquired for Electric
Control & Engineering Limited at Newcastle
to serve industry in that area and also
to assist the Company’s overall manufactur-
ing programme.
Premises have been leased at Elizabeth in
South Australia to house specialised
activities of the Company associated with
the automotive industry.
In recent weeks, arrangements have been
completed for premises at Lane Cove,
Sydney, on a long-term lease basis, to house
the complex electric and electronic equip-
ment sections. The transfer of these activities
from the Camperdown plant will be fol-
lowed by the integration of a number of
machining and assembly operations within
the Group at Camperdown.
The New Zealand subsidiary Electric
Control & Engineering (N.Z.) Ltd. owned
as to 70% by the Group completed its
first year in its Auckland factory.
After a slow start, due to shortage of
skilled labour, the Company achieved a
substantial increase in sales and production
and traded profitably.
In terms of our agreement with- the New
Zealand Government, the New Zealand
operation was designed to produce a wide
range of E.C.E. products and for the pur-
pose of expedition its establishment was
carried out by Australian executives. Its
development to a profitable operation and
its growth of business are very encouraging.
The Reeves Variable Speed Drive Divi-
sion expanded its business during the year
as a result of its increased range of products.
The division moved into new premises
at Richmond, Victoria, where' it now
operates in conjunction with the Electric
Control & Engineering Limited sales and
service division.
The Pauli, Roberts & Parsons Division
enlarged its range of dairy machinery
products and power transmission equip-
ment during the year and increased its
sales and production.
The division opened up an export market
for its dairy pump equipment and generally
broadened its marketing activities and these
operations have resulted in an increased
level of orders on hand.
The Industrial Electrical Service sub-
sidiary of Adelaide experienced a further
record total of sales and earnings and has
provided valuable support in the develop-
ment of Electric Control & Engineering
Limited activities in South Australia.
Industrial Controls Pty. Limited, our
merchandising subsidiary handling electric
and pneumatic controls manufactured out-
side the Group, again increased its sales
and earnings and opened up new offices
in Brisbane and Newcastle in a general
programme of expansion.
Ferrier & Dickinson Pty. Limited, special-
ising in sales and servicing of diesel engines
and mobile handling equipment, returned
an improved profit for the year. Its immedi-
ate programme, however, is being adversely
affected due to restricted deliveries from
the U.K. and this aspect is currently ham-
pering the development of this subsidiary.
Yorkaire contained its progress during
the year and achieved a record level of new
business and improved its earnings.
To consolidate the growth pattern of
Yorkaire. the Hawkins & Willcox operation
in Victoria was brought under its manage-
ment and now operates as Yorkaire in
Victoria.
A sheet metal company styled Australian
Sheet Metal Pty. Limited of Brisbane was
acquired during the year to provide York-
aire with facilities in that State.
The Melbourne and Brisbane moves have
proved of great assistance to the Company’s
programme and the year ahead should see
further development of Yorkaire’s business
levels.
As a result of the replanning of the opera-
tions of Federated Engineers Limited, a
separate section was developed for the
manufacture of Weir and Drysdale pumps
which had previously been carried out with-
in the mechanical engineering operations.
This section has been set up to support the
activities of the associated company Weir-
Drysdale (Australia) Pty. Limited, and to
cater for the special products of the Weir-
Drysdale Group.
In January of this year, agreements were
entered into with Reliance Electric and
Engineering Company for provision of
technical aid and for licence to manu-
facture Reliance products on a long-term
basis.
Our association with Reliance over the
past twelve years has made a valuable
contribution to the development of our
electrical activities and is playing a sig-
nificant part in our new business levels.
In terms of shareholders’ approval, a
special issue of shares was made to Reliance
involving 720,000 Initially Limited Divi-
dend Shares of 5s. each. An equivalent
amount, namely £180,000, was used in
redemption of Redeemable Preference
Capita], thus reducing the latter from
£250,000 to £70,000.
Briefly stated, the overall position of the
Group is that the manufacturing pro-
grammes of Federated Engineers Limited
and Yorkaire Pty. Limited have been satis-
factorily reorganised, the operation of
Electric Control & Engineering Ltd. con-
tinues to expand in product-coverage, sales
and earnings; and merchandising and service
activities continue to provide improved
market penetration and support for the
manufacturing programmes.
The extensive product development under-
taken by Electric Control & Engineering
Limited, to which previous reference has
been made, together with its licensing
arrangements, have provided that company
with a wide range of equipment covering
all aspects of electric motor control gear,
switchgear, remote supervisory controls and
telemetry, variable speed drives, resistance
welding controls, transformers and
machines, mechanical transmission equip-
ment and associated products.
The activities of Federated Engineers
Limited, which was formerly engaged to
a major extent in the manufacture of re-
quirements for the Australian Navy, have
now been directed towards the manufacture
of a grouping of proprietary products for
which there appears to be a satisfactory
and growing market in Australia. The final
stage of closing down the Navy annex and
establishing the new programme introduced
a significant non-recurring cost into the
year’s results.
The Yorkaire subsidiary, which has also
been progressively reorganised, has now
achieved a sound basis and is recognised as
a leader in the air-conditioning industry.
Having eliminated those activities which
have shown losses in recent years and
diverted management’s effort to profitable
trade areas, we face the future with good
order books and confidence that improved
profits will result.
CURRENT YEAR, 1965-66
I am pleased to be able to report that
the progress in the Group’s business levels
has continued into the current financial
year. New business recorded during the
three months July-September, 1965, totalled
£2,511,000 and Net Profit (before tax)
, amounted to £94,828.


cessively high” for other than flagging
rural industries, although naturally his
reference was much more oblique than
this.
Such statements embody the plain un-
varnished truth.
Deposits with the trading banks,
according to Mr Forrest, would have
been £5OO million greater in 1964-65 if
they had kept pace with the increase in
national income during the past 10 years.
This would have enabled the banks to
provide much more finance at minimum
cost for business purposes.
This being so, one would have liked
him to show more enthusiasm for the
recently changed official policy of allow-
ing interest rates to encourage the public
to restore fixed deposits to previous pro-
portions, providing that “statutory re-
serve deposits” are progressively aban-
doned. Nevertheless Mr Forrest is com-
pletely justified in complaining about
deprivations of revenue by the Reserve
Bank’s method of forcing loans from the
banks —a subject to which 1 shall return.
Even here one must insist on the whole
truth. Unwittingly, the public banking
companies have actually been assisting
the authorities to restrict their own com-
mand of resources for industrial finance.
Bankers too complacently accepted
the 1959 legislation, without seeing its
threat to the survival of their institutions
except as appendages of government.
They co-operated in the official policy
of forcing customers to get finance “out-
side the banking system” Private busi-
nesses, to survive, had to redouble their
efforts to become “self-financing”. To
fill the officially created vacuum, alterna-
tive sources of finance had to expand.
Until quite recentlv bankers oddly
looked for their salvation by lending their
name and facilities to “fringe” competi-
tors, although the trail of bad debts and
the MLC’s unhappy experience may have
brought mere realism.
They are still expanding subsidiaries
to undertake more and more' of the
primitive activity of savings banking,
without sufficiently appreciating that
this, like the previously mentioned as-
pects of their policies, is among the
causes of the relative decline in deposits
held by their trading banks.
The remarkable growth of private
savings banks is largely at the expense
of their parent trading banks. The Com-
monw'ealth and State Savings Banks do
not expand as much as they otherwise
would, but official controls ensure that
the governmental sector obtains no less
finance by leaving more and more of
the funds to be gathered by offshoots of
public banking companies.
We have the spectacle of wasted re-
sources, as governmental banks switch
as rapidly into fields of private industrial
financing (albeit only for officially
approved purposes) as public banking
companies switch into governmental
fields of savings banking.
A system is emerging here, like that
of Russia, where official approval is
necessary to obtain a bank overdraft, so
that banks are only part of the apparatus
of a “planned” economy This is seen
in the Reserve Bank’s administration of
the term-loans fund of the banks and
in its dictation of advances policy, where
“investment” is already a dirty word.
“Hard core” finance is taboo and the
overdraft of the smallest businessman is
kept on a “reduction basis”, however
rapidly he may be progressing and re-
gardless of his future prospects.
Banking in Australia is being made to
conform to theoretical models of over-
seas systems, where socia requirements
are different, instead of freely adapting
itself to assist spontaneous private efforts
to unlock the wealth of a continent. The
worst handicaps are imposed on the
young, the small and the innovating, so
that the nation’s dependence on overseas
capital increases £ar more than is inevit-
able.
latest frustrating mumbo-jumbo is
A that banks are forced to keep custo-
mers’ limits, besides their overdrawings,
to fixed, pre-determined figures each
week. Every practising bank manager
realises how' this blocks flexible service to
his customers.
Mr Forrest, however, finds it only a
“moot point” whether monetary policy
requires the resulting inflexibility and
difficulties of compliance which, of
course, it does not.
The essence of an overdraft system is
that a debt will be less than a limit for
periods of varying duration. Mr Forrest,
however, lends his support to the pro-
posed additional fee for the unused part
of certain limits of £50,000 and over.
Am I perverse in thinking that industry
should not have to pay for a service it
is not receiving, especially when banks
(as provided in this system for economis-
ing the use of scarce capital) are earning
interest on all unexpended parts of
limits?
This brings me to the nub of the system
of cumulative oppression.
Forced loans, non-interest bearing or
at a negligible interest rate (imposed in
addition to handsome support for the
governmental sector through liquidity
conventions), are the most unsavory
aspect of Australian banking controls.
Banks, to recoup themselves for revenue
thus lost, must charge their customers
more.
Earnings from the use of these forced
loans have provided capital directly and
indirectly for expansion of the Com-
monwealth banking mechanism, which
already overshadows the public bank-
ing companies, and can easily absorb
them.
Such a diversion of trading bank funds
is not essentia! for monetary stability
when the Reserve Bank has total power
to mobilise foreign exchange and to
maintain official exchange rates.
Whatever preference well - meaning
theorists may have for the Reserve Bank’s
purchase of overseas funds from the
banks and withholding of the proceeds
in blocked accounts, they must answer
to their consciences if they condone an
interest allowance far below the going
market call rate, especially when profits
therefrom are used for a blatantly
‘'nationalising” purpose.
Mr Forrest refers only to the more
recent manifestations of the latter part
of this unprincipled process, following
increases in rates which have caused
fixed deposits to rise to more than half
of total deposits.
As economic circumstances allow, he
states, the Reserve Bank should aim to
reduce “statutory reserve deposits” to
a far smaller percentage of bank deposits.
Pending this, the banks should receive
“a more realistic rate than 15s. p.c. per
annum on at least that portion of the
statutory reserve deposits on which
interest is paid to customers”, he added.
These are moderate requests in all
conscience, but the granting of them
will leave no scope for offering private
businesses any relief from present high
interest rates and other bank charges.
Formation of a property company as
a wholly owned subsidiary may give the
bank greater flexibility in the use of its
funds, as it hopes.
It is difficult to share Mr Forrest’s
optimism that heavy capital costs and
low returns from the opening of about
30 branches a year will yield sound and
profitable business expansion in the
future, if present banking arrangements
are not substantially altered.
SOURCE OF FUNDS (£'000)
Sept. 30 1962 1963 1964 1965
Capital 10,039 10,039 12,611 12,611
Share Premiums 1,009 1,009 1,639 1,639
Other Reserves 6,491 6,491 7,461 7,611
P. & L. credit 977 1,267 1,161 1,036
18,566 13,856 22,372 22,947
Div. provision 454 504 589 631
Deposits, etc. 353,145 400,894 464,842 499,533
372,165 420,254 488,303 523,161
Less
Funds withheld
by Reserve Bank 32,308 37,233 56,693 57,527
339,857 383,016 431,610 465,634
USE OF FUNDS (£'000)
Cash 10,581 11,403 11,076 9,752
Overseas at call 625 625 544
Net due from other
banks 18,775 22,409 19,604 15,156
Receivables &
remittances 42,257 51,772 62,943 63,719
Money market
loans 3,051 3,179 9,300 6,765
75,289 88,763 103,548 95,936
All public securities 90,752 117,015 119,294 126,845
Advances, etc. 160,449 163,455 194,130 227,042
Investments 3,263 3,184 3,334 3,734
Premises, etc. 10,104 10,599 11,304 12,077
339,857 383,016 431,610 465,634


La Trobe University
MASTER
OF
GLENN COLLEGE
The planning of La Trobe University provides
for the establishment of a college system of
which all students and staff will be members.
Initially it is proposed that up to 20 per cent
of students enrolled in each college will be
in residence. The facilities of the college
dining, recreational and educational will
be shared by staff, resident and non-resident
students.
As Head of the first college and to assist
with the establishment of this system, the
University wishes to appoint a suitably quali-
fied person as MASTER OF GLENN COLLEGE.
Although the Master of the College will
be ultimately responsible for its control and
management through the Vice-Chancellor to
the Council, it is intended that Glenn College,
and the succeeding Colleges will be as
autonomous as practicable, and the Master
will be encouraged tc develop the character
and the method of administration of the
College in the manner which is found to be
most suitable. The value of salary, allowances
and accommodation will be equivalent to pro-
fessorial salary.
Persons wishing to apply for this position
are invited to write to the Vice-Chancellor,
who will supply a statement which sets out
further details of the University and the Col-
lege and the form of application. Applications
will close on Monday, 7th February, 1966, and
the Master of the College will be expected to
commence duty in July or August, 1966.
474 St. Kilda Road,
MELBOURNE.
LAUNCESTON CHURCH
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
requires
SENIOR MATHEMATICS
AND FRENCH MASTERS
from the beginning of first or
second term, 1966.
Both men must be oble to teach
to at least fourth year secondary
standard.
Salary scales are above State
department levels and housing is
available. Full details may be
obtained from the Headmaster.
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Smooth Production Line
A look at the Hanimex factory
When the NSW Premier, Mr Askin,
officially opened the new extensions
to Hanimex’s factory at Brookvale on
November 26, it came as a surprise for
some to learn that this photographic
equipment manufacturer, importer and
exporter is now manufacturing goods for
the export trade which totalled just under
£1 million last year.
' The company even exports photo-
graphic equipment to Japan and Ger-
many!
Another twist is that Hanimex under-
takes manufacturing operations which
normally are expected to be performed
by outside specialists. For example, the
company makes its own tools and dies,
some of which are supplied to Hanimex’s
overseas factories like Hong Kong.
It makes its own sub-fractional electric
motors; runs its own electro-plating
works, and, most surprising of all,
operates its own 80-ton die casting shop
which produces aluminium bodies for
its film projectors.
Those who know the die casting busi-
ness usually claim that this is one thing
which should be left to specialists, be-
cause the manufacturer who attempts
to set up his own die casting shop can
be looking for trouble. Not so Hanimex.
It is making its own die castings
efficiently and economically, and also
intends to take &n some outside work.
In the plastic moulding section at
Hanimex, the company is operating up
to 24 ounce plastic moulding machines
with great efficiency and is working three
shifts, including Saturday.
It seems that lenses are the one major
item which the company imports for its
needs in the photographic industry.
The company had a setback in 1958
when it established its factory at Brook-
vale, NSW, but after the initial teething
troubles it never looked back. Talking
to the dynamic managing director, Jack
Hannes, you catch a sense of enthusiasm
even when you are trying to pick fault.
The company’s figures stand up to
close scrutiny and anyone who tried to
pick holes in the factory operations
during the public inspection on Novem-
ber 26 failed to uncover any weakness.
For example, it was suggested to the
secretary, Peter McConachie, that the
company was vulnerable in undertaking
so many of its manufacturing operations
and “Wouldn’t it be cheaper to sub-
contract some items to outside con-
tractors?”
The answer is “no”, because the com-
pany is not involved in any delays in
the supply of vital parts which may hold
up a production line and it is proving
that it can make better quality goods
at a cheaper price and within a shorter
period.
The company refuses to stand still.
It has entered the industrial photographic
field by importing laboratory equipment,
process enlargers for graphic art color
printing, and Siemens’ 16 mm. sound
projectors for schools, TV stations, news-
reel companies, etc.
It handles X-ray equipment for
scientific research laboratories, robot
cameras similar to those used by CSIRO,
weapons research, universities, etc. It
has its own drawing office and design
engineers who also go outside the photo-
graphic field to design items such as fans,
heaters, desk lamps, etc.
Trying to pinpoint Hanimex’s major
income earners is a bit difficult, because
portion of the £1 million worth of goods
it exports includes parts for the com-
pany’s subsidiaries in Hong Kong, Japan,
Britain and New Zealand. However, it
can be kept in perspective by pointing
to the total sales of the group, which
amounted to £4.3 million in 1964-65, in-
cluding the Canadian subsidiary which
commenced trading in September, 1964.
The latest expansion increases the
factory area to 110,000 square feet, com-
pared with 40,000 square feet 13 years
ago. Employees number about 500 and
are drawn mostly from the Warringah
Shire area.
Sales? There has been some tightening
in demand in the industry but Hanimex
sales have improved, undoubtedly helped
by the increasing range of products. As
an example of its enterprise, it recently
acquired the only manufacturer of mag-
netic tape in Australia.
The company continues to put up a
remarkable performance in the UK
despite the 15 p.c. surcharge on imports
(now reduced to 10 p.c.).
Any scepticism about the company’s
technical ability is quickly dispelled after
a talk With the engineering director, Mr
John Sheaffer, who obviously has over-
come many technical problems during
the company’s growth.
Turning to the figures, there is always
some suspicion about a company which
pays a 20 p.c. dividend, because history
indicates that the tendency is to reduce
the dividend rather than increase it.
Yet Hanimex has been showing con-
sistently high earning rates (45.3 p.c.
last year) and the directors expect to
maintain the dividend rate on the current
one-for-five new issue at ss. premium.
The present market puts the ss. par
value stock units at around 175., to give
a dividend yield of 5.8 p.c. and an earn-
ings yield of 14.1 p.c.
Dividend cover is 2.4 times and on
present indications there is still plenty
of vigorous growth left in the company.
Earnings, pence per share (on capital
issued at June 30):
1962 1963 1964 1965
16.51 19.86 22.25 27.01


MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
Ql
mo
INEW ISSUE
PER ANNUM
5 YEARS &
7-20 YEARS
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications for Debentures and Unsecured Notes,
accepted only on the form referred to in and attached to
the printed prospectus which is available from:
BANK OF N.S.VV. BRANCHES—STOCKBROKERS
Joint Underwriters: A. B. S. White & Co./Pring Dean & G®.
(Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange Limited)
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE COMPANY LTD.
316 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. 61-9701, 61-6421
MA222N3W
A Nice Leggy Growth
Kolotex engineers a renaissance
11/hen Messrs P. Kornmehl and J. A.
” Louwers, as directors of Kolotex
Pty Ltd, made an offer in December,
1961, for three-quarters of the shares
held in Rosslyn Hosiery (Holdings) Ltd
they began a resuscitation job which has
probably exceeded their expectations,
and certainly that of the market.
Rosslyn Hosiery went public in
August, 1953, although its predecessor,
National Hosiery Mills Ltd, began
women’s hosiery production in 1938.
After some post-war expansion the com-
pany experienced difficulty in adapting
to the changing demand for seamless
as against fully fashioned hosiery, and
after losses in 1959, 1960 and 1961,
the company was ripe for takeover.
An unnamed bidder had offered 3s.
per share in December, 1960, but this
was rejected. In June, 1961, Hestia
Brassiere Co. Pty made an offer of
Is. 7d. cash for each Rosslyn ss. unit.
This was subsequently withdrawn.
In December, 1961, the Kolotex offer
of 2s. 3d. cash for 75 p.c. of the hold-
ings of shareholders with 400 or more
shares was received and accepted.
Following this amalgamation, Rosslyn
cancelled 2s. 6d. of each of its ss. issued
shares, halving paid capital to £97,500.
The name was then changed to Kolotex
Holdings Ltd, 20.000 2s. 6d. shares were
issued to a life assurance company, and
100,000 shares largely to overseas invest-
ment companies, all at a substantial
premium.
Since the merger, the company has
been completely reorganised, rebuilt and
re-equipped at a capital cost of £738,3 t 9.
The dramatic result is a lift in turn-
over from £200,000 to £1.7 million,
which represents 20.2 p.c. of the Aus-
tralian hosiery trade —a statistic which
few companies care to publish.
From a losing position in 1961, the
company has established itself as a sig-
nificant profit-maker. Latest profit was
an improvement from £126,604 in 1964
to £170,848 in the year to June 30,
1965. This is almost 100 p.c. on capital
increased ir- the second half of the year
by a one-for-four par issue.
A one-for-four bonus issue on Movem-
ner 3. 1965 will dilute this earning rate
in 1965-66, provided the company makes
no further profit gain?, The bonus was
furnished by a revaluation of freeholds,
which were in the books at 1950 on prior
valuations.
Dividend has been I fted from 8 p.c.
in 1962-63 to 9 pc., then 11 j p.c. Con-
sidering the huge margin of earnings
over distributions, the bonus should not
affect the dividend policy.
A significant event in the year under
review was the successful takeover of
George G. Clarke Ltd, furniture and
floor covering wholesaler for £256,666
cash. Clarke brought considerable tax
loss benefits to Kolotex. It was this, p! Us J
a policy of high profit retention and an *
accelerated depreciation programme, (
which enabled Kolotex to build up it s
internal reserves. I
Thus, whereas in 1962 Kolotex had
intangibles of £45,455 to offset against
£16,436 in accumulated profits, the
latest balance sheet (before the bonus)
shows no intangibles and reserves of
£211,307 (the major part accumulated
profits), which exceed paid capital.
Unsecured sundry creditors are related
to machinery acquisition; secured
creditors represent mostly short-term
bridging finance for building operations.
Trade debtors increased in 1964-65
from £151,545 to £253,014, in part due
to a slower rate of collection, now 54
days rather than 45 days previously.
Directors are satisfied that all likely con-
tingencies have been fully written off.
The annual casn flow for the company
is around £350,000. The directors’ state-
ment that this makes it well within the
company’s means to. meet its obligations
as and when they fall due may be in-
terpreted to mean that no further capital
will be borrowed or obtained from share-
holders in the near future.
The difficulties which trapped Rosslyn
are a reminder that hosiery is within the
fashion field and therefore fickle enough
to be treated with some investment
reservations. But the very remarkable
renaissance engineered by Kolotex
direction merits regular attention to the
stock's activities.
The 2s. 6d. shares at 12s 5d. or there-
abouts return a nominal 2.3 p.c.. the key.
to this high regard being furnished by
the earnings yield of 14.9 p.c. Share-
holders may rightly expect a more
generous dividend cheque from the com-
pany now that its financial position is
so satisfactory, although they must
recognise that the earning rate will not
appear so phenomenal when the com-
pany has exhausted its inherited tax
losses.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000;
June 30 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 339 329 392 620
Less current liabilities 448 42 4 305 497
Working capital -109 -95 87 123
Investments 3 3 3
Fixed Assets 220 341 276 350
Intangibles 45 — — —
159 249 365 476
Loan capital 45 44 70 62
Ordinary capital 98 160 163 203
Reserves 16 45 133 211
159 249 365 476
Depreciation 32 78 137 165
Taxation 17 9 14 13
Net profit 17 86 127 171
Dividends — 13 15 22
Surplus 17 73 112 149
Earning rate 16.9 52.9 77.8 93.4
Dividend rate — 8 9 U|
Dividend yield (a) — 2.2 1.5
Price/earnings
ratio (a) — 7.0 7.7
High price (b) — 4/6 9/3 17/-
Lovv price (b) — 2/6 4/2 10/—
(c) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b; Previous calendar year.


SYDNEY CHURCH OF
ENGLAND GRAMMAR
SCHOOL
NORTH SYDNEY
Vacancies exist for two Science Masters
on the staff of this school, one of which
must include Biology. Apply in writing
to the Headmaster, B. H. Travers.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: JAMES MILLER MOFFATT late of 15
Wellngton Street Bondi. TAKE NOTICE that
DAWN MARIA MOFFATT has filed a supple-
mentary Petition for Divorce No. 83 of 1963
on the grounds of Desertion. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 13th day of January.
1966 and obtain a copy of the petition and
notice of petition without charge from GREGG
MILNE & CO., Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO. WILLIAM RICHARD HOLMES late of
Narrabeen. TAKE NOTICE that SHIRLEY
EDITH HOLMES has filed a Petition for Div-
orce in Suit 4192 of 1965 on the ground of
desertion. If you wish to defend you may file
an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney on or before the sth day of February,
1966 and obtain a copy of the Petition filed
herein without charge on application to J.
GRANT MARSH, Solicitor, 28 Martin Place,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: BRIAN JAMES WHITE late of Flat 13,
No. 1 Gower Street, Summer Hill. TAKE
NOTICE that CAROL ANN WHITE has filed a
petition for Divorce Number 3040 of 1965 on
the grounds of desertion. If you wish to defend
this Petition you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, on or before the Twenty-
ninth day of January, 1966. and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
KNOWLES, WEAVER & CO., Solicitors of 406
Chapel Road, Bankstown or from their
Agents, MORGAN RYAN & BROCK, Solicitors
of 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: PHYLLIS VERONICA HARRIS. TAKE
NOTICE that FRANCIS JOHN HARRIS has
filed a Petition No. 3901 of 1965 for Divorce on
the grounds of desertion. If you wish to de-
fend you may file an An:wer in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 29th day of Janu-
ary, 1966 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from DAVID C. BIVENS &
EMERY, Solicitors of Cessnock by their Syd-
ney Agent, W. F. HOLMES, 209 a Castlereagn
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: ELFREIDE PHILOMENA LEONHARDINE
FINK. TAKE NOTICE that SIEGFREID KARL
FINK has. filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3814 of 1965 on the ground of desertion not-
withstanding the facts and circumstances set
out in the Discretion Statement filed herein.
If you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court,
Macquarie Street, Sydney on or before the
29th day of January, 1966, and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from BESWICH,
HEYDON & LOCHRIN, Solicitors of 65 York
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS Registrar.
SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: VLADO NOVOSEL. TAKE NOTICE that
DILYS NOVOSEL has filed a Petition for Div-
orce Number 3579 of 1965 on the grounds of
desertion notwithstanding the facts and cir-
cumstances set out in the Discretion State-
ment filed. If you wish to defend this Petition
you may file an Answer in the Divorce Reg-
istry on or before the Twenty-ninth day of
January, 1966 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from KNOWLES, WEAVER
& CO.. Solicitors of 406 Chapel Road, Banks-
town or from their Agents, MORGAN RYAN
& BROCK, Solicitors of 11c Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. C. A H. HARMS, Registrar.
TO: KEVIN WILLIAM RAWLINGS late of 29
Stanley Street, East Sydney. TAKE NOTICE
that DELORES OLGA RAWLINGS has filed a
Petition for dissolution of marriage No. 3508
of 1965 on the ground of desertion. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Macquarie
Street, Sydney on or before 29th January,
1966 and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS ROY F. TURNER,
JONES & CO., Solicitors, 350 George Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar in
Divorce.
Sober Alliance
As one denying all relationship with
a wayward step-brother, Alliance
Holdings Ltd made a very sober and
responsible statement to the effect that
jt values its link with The MLC Ltd
(which just falls short of being parent
to Alliance) but it has no connections
whatever with H. G. Palmer (Consoli-
dated) Ltd.
Furthermore, Alliance explained, it
operates in a “vastly different field and
climate of business from retailers extend-
ing their own finance”. These cannot
exercise independent credit judgment
without a conflict of interests involving
their need to retail goods.
Alliance last year to June lifted profit
19 p.c. to £381,000. In the four months
to October profit has been at a rate ex-
ceeding this record result.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 877
ACROSS
I—Passing wind? It knocks one into Kingdom Come,
<5, 4)
6—Hardly what the baffled detective seeks in York-
shire’s big smoke. (5)
9—Purgative direction keeps mum. (5)
10 — 1 interrupt Chopin's waltzes in such cases. (7)
11— Lord David, a cartoonist type. (6)
12— Cover a trouble-maker. (4)
13— Level enough to keep her in the fifties. (3)
15 —About newcomers having tea what sparks us up?
(11)
16— This Latin wine is short. (3)
17 — Henry backs a musical note.
(3)
19—How’s the old-fashioned suitor
popping the question innings
located in the suit? (4-2-5)
21— Georgia’s fuel. (3)
22 — Mediterranean address hav-
ing ability though backward.
(4)
23 Inters in a manner of speak-
ing. (6)
25 He gives a cover. (7)
26 — Snore from a stickybeak. (5)
27 — Gertrude has a drinking
vessel. (5)
28— Tells among such register
cake? (5, 4)
DOWN
I—How’s1 —How’s the congregation in
Debussy's cathedral? (6, 9)
2 and 18—A principal of his
“enemy” comment on the
excessively modern fellow.
(5, 2,3, 4)
3 and 4—Chief of the smitten
scoundrels? (4, 4,5, 2,4)
5 it gives a footing for a caller
to feel optimistic. (7, 3)
6 Trench for cobbling equip-
ment doesn't take the chair
resistance of desperate valor.
(4, 5,6)
7 Girl’s name he spelt wrongly.
(7)
8— Just the place for the deeply
religious. (6, 9)
14—They quieten the small piano
layer without jags. (10)
18—See 2 down.
20—A foreign river is to name an
Italian poet. (7)
24—Ride with three in Germany.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 876


CORPORATION LIMITED
7?
interest up to
paid quarterly
DEBENTURE STOCK
2 YEARS 6i%
3 YEARS 7%
5 YEARS 7i%
6-10 YEARS I\%
UNSECURED NOTES
3 MONTHS 5i%
2 YEARS 7%
3 YEARS 7i%
OTHER RATES ON APPLICATION
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms referred
to in and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus which
is now available from:
Any branch of
THE NATIONAL BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
or
CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Any member of
A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
or the Underwriters
ORD MINNETT, T. J.
THOMPSON & PARTNERS
MEMBERS OF THE SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE LTD.
CC2.53.105
CLARENCE DEGENHARDT
AND COMPANY
INCORPORATING
DAVIS, ROTHWELL & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
John W, Duncan, Peter Davis,
K. Rothwell, A.8.1.A.
Members of The Sydney Stock
Exchange Limited
A. A. Lakos, A.A.S.A.
H. P. Vains, A.C.1.5., A.AJS.A.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
BUILDING
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
28-1751, 25-1853, 25-3327
SPECULATORS DIARY
The Sixth Annual Report
An active and frustrating year
T ADIES and Gentlemen: It is with considerable satisfaction that this sixth annual
report and accounts covering the twelve months ended November 30, 1965,
are laid before you. As has been our practice in the past, every effort has been
made to present these accounts as quickly as possible. In this regard, we are proud
of our record both for this year and for previous years. In past reports we have
described each aspect of the business separately and this practice is again adopted.
PROFIT: The measure of success of
any business is the profit (or loss). Direc-
tors are pleased to report a profit of
£747, this being the appreciation from
the base amount of £2OOO at the begin-
ning of the financial year. Earning rate
on this base amount of £2OOO is a pleas-
ing 37 p.c. At this stage it seems
appropriate to set down the table of
profit growth since the fund was started
with £2OOO six years ago.
End of year Growth
Value Rate
1960 £3115 64 p.c.
1961 £4867 55 p.c.
1962 £7400 54 p.c.
1963 £9953 74 p.c.
1964 £13,605 37 p.c.
1965 £2747 37 p.c.
It will be remembered that directors
kindly donated £11,605 to the Reserve
Bank in 1964, bringing the value of the
portfolio back to £2OOO.
TRADING REVIEW: It has been a
most active and sometimes frustrating
year. Of the 199 transactions during the
year, a great many were motivated by
the desire to keep the portfolio alive.
Looked at in another way, the bulk of
the profit came from a handful of in-
vestments.
Once again grateful thanks are due to
Tableland Tin. This stock alone con-
tributed more than 30 p.c. of the total
profit. A neat profit of £62 was recorded
on the United Telecasters six month put
option. Taken out when the share price
was 11s., it was exercised at Bs. A pity
that the term of the option had not been
one year!
By far the quickest profit was on
VAM. In one week these shares rose
from 4s. 4d. to 6s. 6d., to give a profit
of £49.
Because of the dismal state of the
market at some stages throughout the
year, a number of shorting transactions
appeared in the books. Some of these,
such as Millaquin, proved most profit-
able. The outcome of others, such as
R. and N. Statham, was not so favor-
able. This latter group fortunately was
in the minority.
In view of the 13 p.c, fall in the
market in the financial period under
review, directors fall back on that oft-
used word “satisfactory” to describe the
overall performance of the portfolio. |
STATE OF THE MARKET: Direc-
tors have already stressed the tight con-
dition of the industrial market at times
during the last year. In past years, dif-
ferent commodities have boomed and
these have carried the portfolio forward
without any special effort. In 1963 there
was sugar. Tin followed in 1964. How-
ever, 1965 proved a more sober year,
although metals generally were buoyant.
The cycle must surely be turning to
the point of another sustained rise in
the industrial market. The sad truth is
that the overall market is no higher than
it was five years ago. In retrospect, it
can be said that the market was too high
in 1960. But the increase in dividend
yields and earning yields since then must
now have brought the market to a
realistic and safe level.
The market has had to battle against
rising interest rates in the last two years.
Thank goodness these rates now seem to
have"topped.
It can be argued that economic con-
ditions are expected to become more dif-
ficult and there could be some squeeze
on profit margins. One must remember
that the stock market was in its recession
when industry “was never having it so
good”. It’s their turn now.
Barring world wars or a deepening of
the drought, the present stock market
offers opportunities that probably won’t
be seen for many a long day.


I
-
:
mMm
s
V
man
:
m
■
■H
-
wm
4
■ .
w
m
:
m
-i
1
■
m
' :
i ■-.!
B . ■*'
V-
£v..
»s&
ms£,
i
-„ - v-,
' : " ;
. ...........................
■ '..'.Vv.
>1
■■
A gay mood
with worldly cares aside
and soda laughing
through the golden glory of a fine Scotch
—(DGiUum’s
the whisky—Perfection
(TTCallam’s
Scots (JJhisky
- O'<o b'f"Jed nSCOtltHl'
mffltp UNUfcB COMMONWtAITHSIIW^^I^
a product of Scotland ... of her soil, her rivers, her very atmosphere.


it
1
1
Si
£2
v*»
tr.
fu
X^zj
if.
%>.
✓s
ST/ - ?
s»!r
t*,..
mss,
»*IS
**»*■
>
f
V
r
c m
• b
-!:. *3**2
Q
SCHIM
A
*
f
'"ftKfc-.rr *
k» je
NN >*eH
**»
SCHIMMHUPENNINCK
* *
*£ *
7p» v*
_/
401
HE'S!
SCWE
I
Ss^swiSS
*#SSE» *»*.<#
m #4t
SCHJMMELPENNINCK
: iff
9 ways to please the men
on your Christmas list
The choice of connoisseurs internationally for over 40 years,
ichimmelpenninck are made from an exclusive blend of the
vorld's finest cigar leaf. For this reason, Schimmelpenninck
igars make the ideal Christmas gift for your personal
fiends and business associates. Choose from 9
raditional shapes and sizes—all attractively
;ift-wrapped, ready for giving.
3 Media 20's 12/6
3 Separado 10's 26/3
D Duet 10's 12/-
3 Separado 25's 65/8
3 Calendula 10's 31/4
© Simpatia 10's 18/5
© Con Mil Amoves 10's 23/6
0 Simpatia 25's 46/-
© Calendula 25's 78/4
Schimmelpeiminck
lolland's finest cigars. Fast becoming Australia's favourite cigars.
:himmelp enninck Cigars are imported for your pleasure by Rothmans of Pall Mall (Aust.) Limited —
de Australian agents for schimmelpenninck — Sigarenfabrieken, V. H. Geurts and Van Schuppen N. V.,
rPMI* 5
