

The Bulletin
raHHHHHnßppnnn|Hßi
.-. ■ r. ■■•-> , V- >.■ (~ ;„t ■■ .i-:..V
maffiiia.M ainifiMi a f i Hfai"
: - ' . ' ■ : y;j


□
AUSTRALIA
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
26 weeks 52/- 52 weeks 84/
(New Guinea Air Mail—26 weeks, 82/6; 52 weeks, 145/-)
NEW ZEALAND
Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1595, Wellington, C. 1., N.Z
26 weeks 42/- N.Z. 52 weeks 67/- N.Z.
(air freight—26 weeks, 52/- N.Z.; 52 weeks, 84/- N.Z.)
■
MALAYSIA
Woolworths (Malaysia) Ltd.,
10 Collyer Quay, Singapore
air freight:
26 weeks
$26
52 weeks
$52
BRITISH ISLES
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London.
surface mail:
26 weeks 42/- Stg. 52 weeks 67/- Stg
(Air Mail rates on application.)
✓
Jm.
k
AMERICA
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
229 West 43rd Street, New York.
Surface mail—send dollar equivalent of Australian rates.
(Air Mail rates on application.)
Bringing the world to Australia,
presenting Australia to the world
The
Bulletin
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
Name
Address
| Renewal. New Subscription.
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque, postal note, for


' .X
COONAWARRA ESTATE
HERMITAGE
w
m
m
03
: : V
■,yA
" >?£t ;
ill»t»8lB8H
: . . . .
COONAWARRA ESTATE
RIESLING
PRIDE
OF PLACE
L X M
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CABERNET
The fine wines of the world have always been associated with specific places
and no wines are more specific about, or prouder of, their origin than
COONAWARRA ESTATE. Coonawarra is located (refer to the map on the back
label) in the south-east corner of South Australia, remote from other wine-
growing areas hence its exclusive character and strong touch of personality.
You will find Coonawarra ESTATE worthy the pride of place on your table.
fc; &
m
G
" "X, $
••••-•• ♦ *
tKIKSXITAy&ij:
aXJNA^ASSA
It.
-y-y'-y* -^r>
The select wines of Coonawarra
are labelled Coonawarra ESTATE.
There are two Coonawarra
ESTATE Clarets.
HERMITAGE 1962 Vintage
CABERNET — 1959 Vintage
COONAWARRA ESTATE RIESLING
1965 Vintage
A new Riesling wine-lovers will
welcome.
AN S. WYNN & CO. ESTATE
C4B
The Bulletin
Established 1880
DECEMBER 25, 1965.
VOL. 87, No. 4478
TANNER’S HONORS LIST ... 6
1965 THE YEAR OF DRIFT 8
The fiercest debate 8
Confrontations unlimited 9
Rabelaisian year 13
The coming clash 14
BATMAN AT THE TEST
It’s not rain, it’s pineapple juice .... 16
BOLTE’S FIRST TEN YEARS
One Premier who likes the Press .... 18
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
Round-up for 1965 30
SHORT STORY
My Uncle Tom. by M. G. Vincent .. 37
ROSS CAMPBELL 24
INTELLIGENT WOMAN’S
GLIDE 25
LETTERS 29
OVERSEAS
New York Newsletter 22
Somerset Maugham 23
BOOKS
Charles Higham on Literature '65 . 34
The Merry -go-Round in the Sea,
Randolph Stow 35
The Mandelbaum Gate, Muriel
Spark 36
BUSINESS & FINANCE
Sanity on H. G. Palmer 40
Business prospects for 1966 41
Speculator’s Diary 50
MAN ON THE LAND
Campaign against blue tongue .. 42
Editorial Office: Park House, 54-58 Park
Street, Sydney. Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666#
Advertising: 168 Castlereagb Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


Australian consumers will spend
more than $494,000,000* in
retail stores this coming January
♦This figure is based on the Commonwealth Statistician’s figure of £247,200,000 which was spent in January 1965.
t
but will they be buying your products?
GTV 9 offers 20% off all announcement rates from
December 23rd to January 29th to enable you to
reach this lucrative holiday money spending market.
GTV 9 will schedule special holiday programmes to
cater for this holiday market. Holiday audiences
have more time to shop . . . more time to buy your
products . . . more time to watch T.V.
All announcements other than packages will be
subject to a 20% discount. The maximum number
of package announcements which may be placed by
the station between 6.30 and 10.30 p.m. will be
increased from 50% to 75%. Sponsors will receive
bonus announcements equivalent to 25% of their
commercial content within this period. Don’t let
this market slip through your fingers, contact your
GTV 9 Account Executive for full details tele-
phone Melbourne 42-0201 and Sydney 61-9931.
The following are some of the advertisers who adver-
tised throughout the holiday period last year:—
ALPINE FLOUR
AMALGAMATED CHEMICALS
AM POL
AUST. BISCUIT CO.
AUST. GYPSUM INSULWOOL
AUST. MOTOR INDUSTRIES
AUTO INVERTA T. H. BENTLEY
B.G.E.
B.H.P.
BALM PAINTS
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
BEECH A M'S
BERRI CO-OP.
BEST & GEE
BETTY SYDNEY
BIG SISTER TUTTI FRUTTI
BIRO SWAN & GOLLIN
808 MARTIN EXPORT
BOND’S INDUSTRIES
B.P. AUST.
BRANDELLA
BRISTOL MYERS
BRITISH MEDICINALS
BROTCHIE PHARMACEUTICALS
BUSHELLS
CALDER RACEWAY
CALTEX OIL
CARNATION MILK
CEDEL
CHESEBROUGH-PONDS
COCA COLA
COLGATE PALMOLIVE
DARRODS
DENDY THEATRE
DOWELL INDUSTRIES
FORD SHERRINGTON
FOWLERS VACOLA
GALLAHER INTERNATIONAL
GILBEY’S
GILLETTE
GLO-WEAVE
GODFREY PHILLIPS
GOLDEN BOWL
GOLDEN CIRCLE CANNERY
G. GRAMP & SONS
HALLS BOOK STORE
HILLCASTLE
HILTON HOSIERY
H. J. HEINZ
HOLEPROOF
HOOVER
HOUGHTON & BYRNE
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
INTERNATIONAL HOME PRODUCTS
JOHNSON & JOHNSON
KEVIN DENNIS
KING GEE CLOTHING
R. H. KIRBY THEATRES
KODAK
KRAFT
LEWIS BERGER
LEVERS
LIPTON
M.G.M.
MARCHANTS
MARRICKVILLE
MAXWELL HOUSE
MIKASA
MILES LABORATORIES
MILK BOARD OF VICTORIA
MITRE TEN
MOBIL OIL
MONTRES LONGINES
MOORES
MOTHER S CHOICE
NEPTUNE
NESTLES
NICHOLAS
NICHOLAS “NAIR”
OGDEN INDUSTRIES
OMNIBUS & GENERAL
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL
PRESTON MOTORS
PROCTOR & GAMBLE
PURNELL SHOES
QANTAS
R. J. REYNOLDS
ROBERT TIMMS
ROTHMANS
ROWNTREES
S. BREWING CO.
SEC.
SAMUEL TAYLOR
SEPPELT
SHELL
SIM ALEX
SITMAR
SLAZENGERS
STAR THEATRETTE
STATE SAVINGS BANK
STIMOROL
ST. GEORGE RANGES
SUNART
TARAX
TOPPA
TORAY RAYON
TOTAL OIL
VAN COOTH
VICKS
VICTORIAN RENNET
VINCENT CHEMICAL CO.
WALPAMUR
WARNER BROS.
W. D. & H. O. WILLS
WESTERN DISTRICT CO-OP.
WHITE WINGS
9
GT36


ONE MORE
WEEK
Cautionary tale
A CAUTIONARY tale for the season:
A Sydney woman was recently trying on
what are relentlessly referred to by shop-
assistants as “garments”, but which used
to be called corsets, in a suburban store
when she noticed a hand come around
the door of the fitting-room and take her
handbag. She pulled herself together as
quickly as she could, rushed into the
show-room but no one had seen a trace
of the thief. She left her name, address
and phone number.
The next morning she was delighted
to get a call from the shop, saying her
handbag had been recovered and identi-
fied as hers from papers found in it, and
asking her what time she would-call to
pick it up. She specified a time, without
thinking that there was no real reason
why a shop, open from nine to five,
would want to know what time she
would call. When she reached the shop
at the hour appointed no one had made
a phone call and no trace had been seen
of her handbag. When she got home her
house had been ransacked.
Goodwill
ON CHRISTMAS DAY Sydney radio
station 2SM will every half hour broad-
cast news items, based on the pretence
that radio was working on the day on
which Christ was born. The newscasts
will simulate the development of the
story as it would be handled by reporters
trained in the American radio style.
The station, according to reports,
admits it is “taking a risk with its
audience goodwill.” However, it is not
clear which audience the station is wor-
ried about: the youngsters who get
almost uninterrupted popular music of
the more raucous type seven days a week
from the station, or the few ageing mon-'
signori in suburban presbyteries who still
get a modest ration of religion from the
Catholic station High Mass and Dr
Rumble on Sunday night (evening Mass
helped SM’s programming considerably).
Alumni
WESLEY COLLEGE, Melbourne, has
no building, hall or even drinking foun-
tain named for its most distinguished ex-
pupil, the Prime Minister. For his part,
Sir Robert has not put his name to any
scholarship, prize or endowment at the
school where he spent the years 1911-
1912, did brilliantly at English, less well
at maths and science and avoided sport
when possible. He later sent his sons to
Geelong.
Despite this detachment, Wesley,
which also has Harold Holt as an
alumnus, is identified closely in Mel-
bourne with the PM. Many people
thought there was a long chance he
might say something about his future
during his address at the school’s cen-
tenary speech night. However, apart
from a light reference to the im-
patience of people who seemed to think
he had been in office long enough, he
gave nothing away. He looked so fit and
in such good humor that it was perhaps
well for the spirits of Mr Holt that he
wasn’t there.
Being difficult
AT INTERVALS the Australian tourist
trade has asked American experts here
to advise on how to attract rich, but
elusive, Americans. The verdict was
that Australia is too difficult. So the
tourist people got hot-and-cold running
water at Ayers Rock and built some
fairly second-rate American-style hotels
in the cities. Then sat and waited.
Now, to what must be their consider-
able chagrin, they see advertisements
appearing in the American glossies luring
tourists to a “serious vacation in the
difficult countries”. The difficult coun-
tries are Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and
Venezuela, which are vying with each
other to offer the roughest terrain and
the most primitive accommodation. It's
all pretty disappointing when creating
difficulties is the one thing we’re really
good at.
"Shall I carve?"
Shorter working hours
AMERICA’S massive defence expendi-
ture may make us feel a little safer, but
it is, indirectly, responsible for the dry-
ing-up of the supply of topline American
entertainers. We heard from Hertha
Nolte of the Sydney Chevron that with
US taxation as high as it is and expenses
allowances, under President Johnson, as
tight as they are, many of the top enter-
tainers now work only six weeks of the
year. The rest of the year they attend
to their real estate and other investments.
Unless any of them feels like a paid
holiday abroad the six weeks’ hard labor
will not be put in in Australia, when
gambling towns like Las Vegas and Lake
Tahoe offer so much more money so
much quicker.
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
1 am a simple man.
President de Gaulle.
Many Australians are intellectual
cowards.
Senator McManus.
Australia is far away the best market
in the world for the Pill.
- F. Griffin, Managing Director of
n
British drug firm.
I, is not in order for any Member to
snipe af Pnncess Margaret
— Dr H. King, The Speaker,
House of Commons, tondon.
1 would regard being called an Ameri•
can Knoptelmacher as an honor.
Sidney Hook.
I question the mental health of a nation
which permits its school children to be
exposed to the current cult of Japanese
sadism,
Rex Morgan, Headmaster,
Pitfwafer House Preparatory School.
General Franco is a real Catholic. He
has told me in confidence that he always
on h j s mos J important battles on the
feast days of the Holy Virgin.
1
Cardinal Ottaviani.
Allhough some peopte carp al lhe .
Comn.on.eea/lh science grants as a nicely
judged political manoeuvre, I prefer to
see them as a just and statesmanlike
gesture by Sir Robert Menzies and his
Government,
—Father J. McGowage, Headmaster of
Daramalan College, Canberra.


Tamer's
HONORS LIST
Sor
1966
FOR GIVING AUSTRALIA
A SENSE OF HISTORY
JOERN UTZON
FOR SERVICES TO
THEOLOGY
ORDER OF THE GOLDEN FLEECE
N.S.W. REGISTERED CLUBS
FOR THE WHITEST OF WHITE WASHES
THE VICTORIAN POLICE


FOR
.SERVICES
TO STATE AID FOR
PRIVATE SCHOOLS
-THE ROYAL FAMILY
POLLYANNA OF THE YEAR
ROBERT McNAMARA
KNIGHTS OF THE LONG KNIFE
FOR SERVICES TO HIRE EDUCATION
SYDNEY UNIVERSITY
./Sr. Services tor
HfGUEfL PURCHASE
SANTA
CLAWS


1965 The Year of Drift
Australia 1965 may be seen in retrospect as the end
■*- of an era —an era of drift. For in this year the issues
which have been emerging over the preceding decade have
been drawn with inescapable sharpness and fundamental
decisions affecting all departments of Australian life can
hardly be postponed much longer.
Internationally it was the year which finally toppled one
of the bases of the Government’s foreign policy the
British Commonwealth. Malaysia unilaterally expelled
Singapore from its Federation; India and Pakistan fought
an insane war; Rhodesia revolted; and Tanzania and Ghana
broke with Britain and in all these the Commonwealth
“allies” were powerless. Australians now know that in
any future crisis involving us the British Commonwealth
will be at best irrelevant. The Government, however, has
regularly maintained the opposite view, and, while Britain
discusses its withdrawal from “East of Suez”, the Aus-
tralian Prime Minister has seen fit to become a Warden
of a few English ports.
1965 has also been a year of deeper Australian involve-
ment in Asia for it has been above all the year of
Vietnam, the year in which we finally committed ourselves
to the Vietnam war. But even here support for the Govern-
ment must be tempered by the facts that our commitment
is small and was late, and the Government has still done
little to dramatise and popularise the tremendous issue
involved - the issue of our survival as a free people. It
has failed, in other words, to provide the political leader-
ship that its military decisions require a fact continually
emphasised by the propaganda initiatives taken by the
opponents of our commitment. After so many years of
power, the Government seems unable to argue a great issue.
This indecisiveness has been seen in domestic policy
generally throughout the year with the exception of the
waterfront legislation. The Government did not provide
leadership throughout the momentous wool referendum, it
has neglected the Martin and Vernon Reports, it has
tolerated a breach of Cabinet secrecy, and it has excused
illiberal and incompetent administration most notably in
the wool vote and Ipec matters by Ministers who rightly
should have been dismissed. No country could afford
another year as indecisive as 1965.
In the following round-up, Peter Samuel, T. B. Millar,
J. C. Horsfall and Alan Reid sum up the year and look
ahead.
The Fiercest Debate
By PETER SAMUEL
npHE spotlights were intense, the atmos-
•*- phere thick with sweat and smoke
and the crowd of at least 2000 in the
long, low, glassy modern building was
gripped by the occasion. Television
cameras moved quietly in the aisles. An
orangey yellow abstract and a map of
South-East Asia on the wall behind the
speakers’ plaform marked the with-it
nature of the meeting. The subject of
course: Vietnam.
At the microphone was a moustached,
balding little man. He looked like a
benevolent, earnest, quiet, hardworking
but rather unworldly university professor.
He started quietly and dully. And he
continued that way. His tortuously long
sentences, full of abstractions and com-
monplaces, palled and the audience grew
restive. He spoke incessantly of “the
great fact of a worldwide rivalry of
power.” He managed to go on for about
ten minutes before he mentioned the
word Vietnam and the whole hall seethed
with a bitter feeling of disillusionment.
The man was Paul Hasluck, the country’s
Minister for External Affairs, the man
to expound and aggressively defend
national policy. He was failing abysmally.
Such a contrast to the masterly oratory
of Dr Jim Cairns which was still ringing
in our ears: the soothing, apparently
plausible recital of figures of Chinese
weapons captured and prisoners taken,
the scholarly, respect-inducing I-am-
concerned-with-facts arguments counter-
poised at regular intervals by the shouted,
passionate sarcasm of the rhetorical
questions: “Is this aggression from the
North? Is this the downward thrust of
China?”
For me the Monash teach-in epitom-
ises 1965.
For one thing, it was the essence of
the year’s great national debate, a debate
which divided the country and gave
political life a fiercer and more com-
pelling character than it has ever had, in
my memory anyway. For another it
demonstrated the inability of the
Government to recognise the nature of
the debate, and to provide the leader-
ship needed to rally popular support for
defence against a new kind of warfare.
Paul Hasluck made the mistake at
Monash of coming prepared to partici-
pate in a non-political occasion, a quiet
academic discussion in which values, in-
stincts, prejudices were tuned right
down. In fact, of course, it was like all
the other teach-ins; it was an all-in
political battle to win the hearts and
minds of two thousand young people,
who will soon be teachers and up-and-
coming organisation men. Not to speak
of the countless thousands watching on
television.
For many of us Vietnam as an
issue is of such vital importance that
stylistic sensitivities must be ridden over
roughshod. Vietnam is ultimately a
matter of national survival.
Recently a British magazine declared:
“Those pictures from the la Drang val-
ley ought to jog the British mind. The
American bodies dotted about jungle
clearings are a token of the reversal of
roles that has taken place between
Britain and America in the last 25 years.
The Americans are doing for Britain and
the rest of the Western world what the
British did for the United States in 1940.
They are holding the front line for us."
It concluded: “They are dying while we
still struggle to realise that this is a
necessary war in which our interests are
involved as much as theirs.”
From a conservative organ some might
dismiss this as melodrama but it is sig-
nificant that it comes from the liberal
weekly “The Economist” which earlier
in the year was voicing positively neutral-
ist sentiments about Vietnam. The logic
of this proposition is, of course, that here
and now we in Australia stand roughly
where the Netherlands stood while
Czechoslovakia was suffering Nazi sub-
jugation in the late 19305. While the
urgency of this message may rally people
who already support Government policy,
it will not wash with the doubters. And
perhaps as important as anything else
in 1965 is the nature of the opposition
to our involvement in Vietnam.
For while it is certain that a clear
majority of the electorate support
Government policy, in the opinion-form-
ing circles in universities, among
school-teachers, journalists, clergymen—*
and among the more politically interested


and active people, the “antis” appear to
be in the ascendency.
Many of those who attacked the
Government are decent people who
would be as revolted by the reality of
Communist totalitarianism as anyone.
Some are simply appallingly ignorant of
basic facts of recent history: how else
could a man as sensitive as Morris West
say that “more than half the world has
adopted Communism”? (Archbishop
George Stapleton of Perth went even
further using the verb embrace).
Some are grossly illogical: in the de-
mand for free elections in which one
of the choices presented to voters is
dedicated to preventing them or any
other freedoms; in the inconsistent
propositions that Vietnam is an isolated
affair and that China is bound “inevit-
ably” to dominate Asia. Others are em-
ploying weird moral standards: since the
Vietcong get some support through
decent and constructive programmes of
material betterment they should not be
resisted for their other characteristics.
There is wishful thinking: in the assertion
that an appeased Ho Chi-minh would
most likely be Titoist and not one little
bit of trouble to his neighbors. And there
are the baseless assertions that people
called “Asians” are in some way being
alienated because we are responding to
the request of other people called
“Asians” for help against attack.
These sorts of propositions were the
stuff of the “anti” case and yet they were
not shot down as often as they should
have been because of the superior tech-
nical talents on which the Feft could
draw: the enormous tenacity and energy
of Dr Cairns speaking up and down the
country day after day, the poetry and
theatre of Morris West, the painful sin-
cerity of Francis James, the dispassion-
ate C. P. Fitzgerald and the intensely
moral Reverend Alan Walker.
But most “antis” are simply unsure.
They do not perceive a threat and, like
the rest of us, dislike bloodiness. So they
are against it. We have failed to convince
them that the choice is between the
lesser of two evils and that the alter-
native to some bloodiness now is a lot
more bloodiness later.
At a lower level, the Monash teach-
in also turned up an example of aca-
demic behavior which was a microcosm
of 1965. Through miserable threats of
withdrawing support, Feft-wing profes-
sors manage to cajole the student
organisers into abandoning plans to in-
vite, as a speaker, Dr Frank Knopfel-
macher. After Sydney University’s trans-
gressions this was mere naughtiness, but
it was symptomatic of the gutless illiber-
ality of which Feft-wing academics are
capable.
Dr Cairns’ overwhelming success at
the teach-in was not quite matched in
the Fabor Party although he must be
pretty satisfied with results in 1965. The
Party went all out against the Govern-
ment on Vietnam and despite bold and
telling speeches by his opponents within
Gough Whitlam and Cyril Wyndham
his side increased its strength where
strength really matters: on the Federal
Executive. That was accomplished by the
axing of Bob Holt as president in Vic-
toria and his replacement by Mr Bill
Brown who, in his inaugural address,
proved his ideological rectitude with the
declaration that the Vietnam war was
the result of the United States’ “insatiable
lust for profit and dominance over the
natural resources and wealth of the
world”.
The real question posed by 1965 is
whether, with government as ineffectual
as the Menzies’ Government, it will be
possible to nail the lies and expose the
confusions of those who will not recog-
nise the protracted irregular war which
is being waged against We are up
against an ideology which is presently
glorifying war as never before, regur-
gitating what it proclaims as the famous
thesis that “political power grows out of
the barrel of a gun”, saying that war
“the highest form of struggle” and tha!t
it is determined to “build a beautiful
future on the debris of a dead imperial-
ism”. And yet it is flexible enough to
avoid the mistake of “adventurism” or
military conflict which it cannot win.
This flexibility is the crucial danger and
the crucial opportunity. It is the crucial
danger because it means that irregular,
intermittent and unfamiliar methods will
be used against us and it will be im-
possible to mobilise the defence of the
country by the old means of stirring
up hatreds for a quick, intense all-out
military effort. A much more complex,
subtle approach will be heeded to create
an awareness of the problem. But the
flexibility of the enemy creates oppor-
tunities, too, for if our resistance is
determined, then we can look forward
to ideological retreat. Just as European
Communism has gone revisionist and
diminished as a threat in the face of
Western military deterrence and social
progress, so Chinese Communist ideology
is likely to respond in a constructive way
to a similar show of determination and
imagination on this side of the globe.
Confrontations Unlimited
By T. B. MILLAR
T IKE many of its predecessors, 1965 has
been a year of coups and crises, of
major tension and minor conflict in many
places. It has seen the escalation of the
hot war in Vietnam and of the cold war
between the Soviet Union and Communist
China, and the final flaring embers of
British rule in Africa. It has manifested
a greater realisation by Afro-Asian
countries of their common dangers and
several differences. General de Gaulle
has ceased appearing to be France, much
less Europe. 1 he movement for European
integration has halted, no doubt tempor-
aril y-
The United Nations, in a year which
the General Assembly designated as
International Co-operation Year fol-
lowing a suggestion of the late Pandit
Nehru, has recovered some of its political
effectiveness. At the year’s beginning,
as at its end, the major short-term and
long-term threats to world peace lay in
THE BULLETIN wishes its
readers a good Christmas
and New Year , and re-
minds them that as usual
at this time of the year
there will be no issue next
week. The next issue will
be on sale on January 6.
the unstable power balance in South and
South-East Asia.
War in Vietnam: In January in South
Vietnam, the Vietcong, reinforced by
regular troops from the north, and with
moral and material support from Com-
munist China, were in the ascendant,
while internal divisions, not to mention
corruption and inefficiency, rent and
emasculated the government. In early
February, the Vietcong attacked the
American air bases, barracks and instal-
lations at Pleiku, and in conjunction with
the South Vietnamese Air Force, the
United States reacted by air strikes
against military installations and lines of
communications in North Vietnam. This
was the beginning of a bombing pro-
gramme which has continued, with only
one brief pause in May, until the
present.
The widening of the conflict was de-
signed to do two things, to prevent a
complete Vietcong takeover in South
Vietnam, and to force the Hanoi Govern-
ment to negotiate for a settlement on
terms acceptable to Saigon and Washing-
ton. The first of these has been achieved;
we have “stopped losing the war”, in Mr
McNamara’s words. The second appears
no closer.
During the year, a variety of attempts
were made to get negotiations begun, or
to explore whether there was a basis for
negotiations.
On the whole, however, the reaction of


Hanoi has been less abrupt, less absolute
in its rejections, than that of Peking. It
has yet to be shown, of course, that Hanoi
is able to conduct negotiations separately
from Peking, however much it might
wish to do so.
A significant aspect to the war in Viet-
nam has been that the fulminations from
Peking have not been matched by physi-
cal support of the Vietcong. Certainly,
Peking does not have sophisticated air-
craft or missiles to give, but it has made
infantry weapons and artillery available.
Its invective has been directed not only
at the “imperialists”, but also at the “mod-
ern revisionists” (i.e., the Soviet Union)
for failing to support the Vietcong
sufficiently. While from time to time the
movements of troops and civilians in the
South Chinese border areas have given
rise to speculation, China has not shown
any enthusiasrti for being physically in-
volved in the Vietnam conflict, and no
doubt North Vietnam supports this
reluctance, not wishing to be the battle-
field in an East-West ground war.
/Ane problem facing the United States is
” whether to widen the war still further
by taking all means to cut the Vietcong
supply routes in Laos. Another is whether
to risk an acceleration in the Vietcong
build-up by ceasing bombing for a time,
so as to facilitate a climate for negotia-
tion. Three things are apparent in this
complex and difficult situation: (1) that
the war is being fought on the Commun-
ist side by ideology, administration and
arms, and can only be adequately met
by a similarly three-pronged defence, but
one that is more effective in each prong
and gains the support of the population;
(2) that if the United States allows a
settlement on terms which ensure a Com-
munist government over the whole of
Vietnam, it will lose the confidence of its
friends and allies throughout the world,
including nearly all of the democracies;
and although South Vietnam is very far
from being a democracy, the cause of
democracy would greatly suffer; (3) that
American enthusiasm to continue this ex-
pensive war is likely to be related to the
degree of support and sympathy it re-
ceives from its friends and allies. At the
year’s end, American diplomacy was
being directed at pressing this point
home.
Kashmir Re-ignited: Since the cease-
fire between India and Pakistan on Janu-
ary 1, 1949, there have been rarely more
than a few months between military
incidents, Pakistan being determined not
to permit a freezing of the status quo,
India equally determined not to allow
a thaw.
In August, there was further fighting,
this time in Kashmir. India claimed that
armed men of the Kashmiri militia from
the Pakistan side of the cease-fire line
had infiltrated across the line disguised
as civilians and travelling in small parties,
and had been committing acts of sabot-
age. Pakistan claimed that these were
local freedom-fighters rising up against
the Indian authorities. Both sides com-
mitted regular forces to substantial
battles in several sectors, not only in
Kashmir but further south (especially
near Lahore), and only after strenuous
diplomacy by Commonwealth countries,
the United States, the Soviet Union, and
in the United Nations was a precarious
cease-fire brought about on September 22.
In these troubled waters the Chinese
People’s Republic did not hesitate to fish.
Whether or not at the instigation or with
the acquiescence of Pakistan, in a note
to India on September 17, she demanded
that India dismantle within three days
all military installations on the Chinese
side of the Sikkim border, or face
“grave consequences”. India offered a
joint investigation of the precise location
of the posts. China allowed a further
three days for dismantling, then claimed
(though India denied) that it had taken
place. Chinese incursions into Indian
territory in the North-East Frontier
Agency area were reported in mid-
December. Meanwhile, the Indian and
Pakistani leaders agreed (with a suitable
show of reluctance by Indian Prime Min-
ister Shastri) to a Soviet proposal that
they should meet for discussion in Tash-
kent in the first week of January.
There is little ground for optimism
about this meeting. The “hawks” on
each side appear stronger that the
“doves”. Perhaps the Soviet Union is
the only country which can exert pres-
sure on Mr Shastri to make some con-
cessions—pressure to which he might
not object but which, if coming from the
West, would be bitterly resented. An
India-Pakistan rapprochement would be
in the interests of everybody except
China, but so many Indians and Paki-
stanis are so emotionally involved in
Kashmir, that reason, national security,
peace and self-interest are usually
secondary. Friends of both countries
cannot but wonder how long two brothers
will fight over possession Of a single
room while a neighbor sets fire to the
house.
Confrontations Abounding: On May 20,
1964, President Sukarno announced that
Indonesia would have crushed Malaysia
before the sun rose on January 1, 1965.
When the sun did rise on the due date,
if Malaysia was crushed, it gave no indi-
cation of the fact. However, on this day,
the Indonesian Government advised the
Secretary-General of the United Nations
of its withdrawal from membership,
allegedly because of the seating of
Malaysia in the Security Council (by a
vote taken more than twelve months pre-
viously and later confirmed informally
by a large majority). Indonesia thus
became the first nation to pull out of the
world body, in a petulant gesture indica-
tive of a failed diplomacy, perhaps with
the added (though somewhat premature)
prospect of being bell-wether in a general
exodus caused by the financial deadlock,
The Indonesian withdrawal was suppor-
ted only by the Chinese People’s Re-
public.
During the year, but especially in the
first half, Indonesia continued in north-
ern Borneo and on the Malayan penin-
sula its military operations of murder
and sabotage euphemistically known as
“confrontation”. It thereby tied down—
at no great cost to itself, for the opera-
tions were small scale at any one point
some 50,000 British, Malaysian,
Australian and New Zealand servicemen
plus a large number of ships, whose pre-
sence in the area Indonesia contradic-
torily claimed as the reason for its policy,
On September 30 a military coup,
engineered with the active participation
of the Indonesian Communist Party, was
attempted in Djakarta. Six senior
generals were murdered, two others
(Nasution and Suharto) narrowly es-
caped assassination. Most of the Army
remained loyal, and in the capital the
coup was quickly reversed, although
some fighting continues in central Java.
The effect this will have on Indonesian
foreign policy has yet to be shown. Cer-
tainly the drift towards China has been
arrested. The Army is behaving ruth-
lessly but with considerable political
sophistication. It is unlikely to eliminate
confrontation (against Malaysia) over-
night, since it was identified with the
policy. Its main problems are economic,
bequeathed it by the chaotic Sukarno
Administration. It has already begun to
tackle them, with the issue of a new cur-
rency to replace the hopelessly inflated
rupiah, yet this is hardly the beginning
of the road to domestic and international
financial viability. A bootstrap operation
and extensive foreign assistance are re-
quired, and neither will be easy to
organise. But overall there is more hope
for Indonesia today than there has been
for several years.
TlfiTHiN Malaysia, relations between the
" predominantly Chinese Govern*
ment in Singapore and the Alliance Gov-
ernment in Kuala Lumpur steadily
deteriorated during the year. The Malays
and the more conservative Chinese in the
peninsula feared the thrusting, efficient
and outspoken Singapore Prime Minister,
Mr Lee Kuan Yew, and his People’s
Action Party. There were also economic
sources of contention. On August 9,
Singapore was ejected from the Federa-
tion, although military arrangements for
joint defence against Indonesia continue.
Both Malaysia and Singapore are
militarily dependent on the United King-
dom, and in Singapore’s case the


economy is heavily subsidised by British
defence expenditure on its naval and air
bases. While some heat has gone out of
Singapore-Malaysian relations, there is
a trade war in prospect, and Singapore’s
search for international recognition has
led to a different emphasis (an attempt
to appear non-aligned) in foreign policy.
Since the separation, Singapore has made
a sizable contribution (two infantry bat-
talions) to the defence of Borneo, but
has also sought to resume barter trade
with Indonesia. No doubt the motives
for this are partly economic, partly in
terrns of seeking a long-term relation-
ship with Indonesia, and partly to bring
some pressure on Kuala Lumpur.
China’s Mushroom Cloud. On May
14 Communist China exploded its second
nuclear device, as part of a development
which it officially declared to be “solely
for defensive purposes”. The shadow
which the mushroom cloud threw over
Asia was one of the more effective con-
tributions to Chinese foreign policy
during 1965. In other respects, it has
often overplayed its hand, as in Indo-
nesia. A proposal to form an organisa-
tion competitive to the United Nations
received no support. A bland assertion
by Chou En-lai that Africa was ripe for
revolution did not reassure African
leaders, especially after an attempted
revolution in Niger was found to have
had Chinese support.
The Sino-Soviet conflict was given a
new dimension when Foreign Minister
Chen Yi, at a Press conference on Sep-
tember 29, rhetorically invited the Soviet
Union to join the imperialists, militarists
and reactionaries in launching a war of
aggression against China. When the
United Nations came to consider, in
November, the question of seating Com-
munist China, the latter at first encour-
aged its sponsors to submit a moderate
resolution which may have brought
success, then changed at the last minute
and insisted on one which was deliber-
ately offensive and would have excluded
Taiwan. The voting was closer than it
has ever been, but China is not neces-
sarily any nearer to admission.
Little of this is cause for comfort,
any more than are China’s few diplo-
matic successes (such as in Tanzania and
Mali), its rumblings along the Hima-
layan borders, and its open encourage-
ment of subversion in north-eastern
Thailand. The more success China has
in projecting itself as the leader of revo-
lutionary movements, the greater in-
fluence it will have on Soviet foreign
policy to compete. The process of bring-
ing China into the diplomatic community
and to some recognition of the rules of
the game does not look any easier in
December than it was in January.
Africans and Asians: The second
Afro-Asian conference, scheduled for
March and postponed until June, failed
to take place then or when further post-
poned until November. In June, the
coup which replaced President Ben Bella
by his Minister for Defence gave a handy
excuse to those who did not wish to
attend anyway. The general uncertainty
of the security situation, the “great power
chauvinism” of China, and the mutual
distrust between Africans led to the
second postponement. By November
China had reversed its position, lndo-
nesia was recovering from the attended
coup, and the Africans were no nearer
unity.
Among the Arab States, the United
Arab Republic and Saudi Arabia have
been fighting on opposite sides in the
Yemen, although a cease-fire has been
agreed on; Tunisia has brought fft«
wrath of the others on its head by
advocating learning to live with Israel,
Ethiopia and Somalia, and Mauritania
and Morocco have festering border dis-
putes.
The Organisation of African Unity
(OAU), which has been functioning for
nearly three years, called a meeting of
heads of government in Accra in mid-
October. Twenty-eight of the thirty-six
attended, the others (all former French
dependencies) boycotted the conference
on the grounds that the host country,
Ghana, was harboring and encouraging
subversive elements to be used against
them.
The principal activity of the OAU has
been through its “Liberation Committee


'•V
/
TTTf-I
*s
'
9*
r* *
mm
••
; H
• .
This massive generator turbine is
tinder assembly at the Heavy Elec*
trie Machinery Dept, of Fuji. And
this department is only one of the
various sections that comprise
Fuji’s total electrical making capa-
bilities.,
Prime movers for motive power,
heavy transformers, industrial con-
trol systems, meters, to transistor
radios, television receivers and the
latest home appliances ... Fuji’s
full range of products serve the
needs of industry, home and sci-
entific research. And advanced Fuji
products, built for reliable long-life
service, are meeting the electrical
needs of peoples all over the world
(D
FUJI ELECTRIC
SYMBOL OF BETTER LIVING
FUJI ELECTRIC CCLLTD. (FUJI DENKI SEIZO K.K.) Head Office: Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku,Tokyo, Japan Cable: DENKIFUJI TOKfl


1 0 f Nine”, aiding (with some Chinese help)
(subversion in remaining colonial terri-
tories in Africa. Only at the end of the
year, and then by diplomatic rather than
military pressure, did the OAU attempt
to affect the situation in Rhodesia.
Resistance to Change: On November 5
the Smith Government declared a state
of emergency, to last for three months.
On November 11 the Prime Minister de-
clared its independence from Britain and
its loyalty to the Queen.
Britain treated the declaration as
illegal. Economic sanctions of various
kinds were invoked. On December 5 the
[OAU unanimously threatened to cut off
diplomatic relations with Britain unless
it crushed the Smith Government within
ten days. So far, of the Commonwealth
countries, only Ghana and Tanzania have
taken action; Nigeria has proposed a
Commonwealth meeting, Kenya a
Security Council meeting.
The African nations, both those within
and those outside the Commonwealth,
have expressed no great desire to go to
war against the white Rhodesian Army.
Their demand that Britain should do so
is hypocritical, yet Britain’s own position
[is a result of a pragmatism so perfect
as to delay until too late actions which
[might have prevented the present disas-
trous situation.
Europe Without France: At the
French Presidential elections in Decem-
ber, the public opinion polls made an
error of some 15 per cent in their
(estimates, and on the first round de
(Gaulle received less than 45 per cent of
the vote, the Left-wing candidate, M.
Mitterand, obtaining over 32 per cent.
This massive resistance to de Gaulle’s
policies (perhaps also to his age, 75)
indicate that his era is nearing its end.
Whatever the vote at the second ballot,
Ihe can no longer speak with the same
authority, either domestically or inter-
nationally. Dr Erhardt, leading a re-
elected party in a reharnessed coalition,
in a nation chafing at historic (anachro-
nistic?) restrictions on its sovereignty,
may find any change in France not un-
welcome. This survey has ignored for
reasons of space, some of the other flash-
points.
It has also omitted, because they make
less news but not because they are less
important, the vast multiplicity of good
international relations, the foreign aid,
the trust and confidence and peace among
men which is the normal plane of daily
events from which the more sensational
events stand out in relief but without
which there would be anarchy and
despair.
Rabelaisian Year
By J. C. HORSFALL
Tt was a Rabelaisian year, this one, for
the Australian economy. Employment,
the acid test, was never fuller. But the
year’s main progeny, the Vernon Report,
hardly got past its political previews.
Such expansive excursions as the Ver-
non Committee undertook into our eco-
nomic future have never made much im-
pression in a country where Heath Rob-
inson holds economic sway, where the
photographic memory of the Prime Mini-
ster counts more than business opinion
or the analyses of professional economists,
and where the Federal Treasurer, under
what may be the passing guidance of
Sir Roland Wilson, always has the upper
hand anyway.
One doubts it, but maybe in 1966, the
Vernon Report will come into its own as
the primer of economic policy as origin-
ally intended. As 1965 closes, its impact
is still shadowy. The Government pur-
sues relentlessly its own objectives with-
out more than a polite nod to the report’s
suggestions that we should limit capital
inflow-to £l5O million a year and restrict
migration to a net 100,000. As for setting
up an economic advisory council to keep
economic policy on the rails, “God For-
bid!” says the Government.
It was a year in which, apart from its
lip-service treatment of the Vernon re-
commendations, one became increasingly
disturbed about the Government’s intoler-
ance of impartial and objective advice
and the increasing primacy afforded
political expediency and intuition. Take
the Tariff Board reports on textiles and
crude oil. In both cases the Government
knew better than its professional advisers.
The case of crude oil stands out because
the Government trebled the Board’s
recommended margin in favor of/ local
producers when fixing the price of in-
digenous crude.
As for business opinion entering into
the Government’s calculations, 1965 will
be a landmark. It was the year when the
Trade Practices Bill was pushed through
on the tepid support of Government hacks
who had failed to do their homework and
Labor's vendetta and “anti-boss” atti-
tudes. And this, in face of overwhelming
overseas experience and local business
opinion that registration of trade prac-
tices was both unnecessary and against
the best interest of economic develop-
ment.
On the credit side in 1965, Sir William
Gunn failed in his attempt to lead the
wool industry into the orbit of Govern-
ment control when the Reserve Price
Scheme was roundly defeated in a refer-
endum after a no-holds barred campaign
by both sides. This, of course left all the
wool industry’s problems unsolved. But
it opened the way to a more conservative
approach not only to the rationalisation
of wool selling but also to the vital
matter of achieving less violent fluctua-
tions in the price of wool. This is needed
to help the stability of the industry as
well as for the campaign wool must win
in competition with synthetic fibres.
Probably as momentous as any of
these events, was a majority 3-2 judg-
ment of the Arbitration Commission
which stamped 1965 as the year when
wage fixing moved in one bold step
towards the acceptance of the total wage
SWAINSVILLE
W 'HAT ON EARTH ARE YOV LO/N<7 ?
YbU TWO KNOW THAT CHRISTMAS
IS A COMMERC/AE RACKET ANJ>
/ KNOW IT'S A COMMERCIAL
RACKET...
BUT MY S/S TER /S FAR TOO
VoONQ TO SB l>/S/lrLV$/OMEI> .


the
Dolphin
motel
Princes Highway,
Merimbula
’phone
Merimbula 326
For overnight
accommodation or a
relaxing holiday, it’s wonderful in winter, superb
in summer Merimbula, located on the coastal
Princes Highway (between Sydney and Mel-
bourne), is f-amous as a year-round holiday
resort. It’s a fishing paradise, located right on
the lake with nearby surf beaches, and in
winter Merimbula is famous for its oysters and
its climate warmed by tropical currents. A
motel of distinction, the Black Dolphin has the
usual licensed restaurant, guests’ lounge, air-
conditioning, swimming pool, private jetty and
superb cuisine.
For reservations and further details contact any
ANSETT-ANA TRAVEL SERVICE
Offices in all Capital Cities, or direct to
The Black Dolphin Motel, Merimbula. Phone 326
A MEMBER COMPANY Of ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
-AT1.711
concept and perhaps eventnafly to the
implementation of an incomes policy. It
was bold, because by merging the basic
wage and margins’ awards in a single
determination it defeated the trade
unions’ time honored strategy of double
counting the productivity gains. Also,
to the neglect of cost-of-living adjustments
to award wages, it made general econo-
mic considerations and the effects of
wages increases on consumer prices
major considerations in the Commission's,
judgments.
If there was no follow-up to the
strong initial opposition of the unions to
the 1965 wage judgments, this was
possibly because the Arbitration Com-
mission had again revealed itself power-
less to deal with “wages drift”. This left
the field of over-award wages wide open
for the unions to exploit (admittedly in a
somewhat easier labor market). Threats
of a nation-wide strike came to nothing.
The Government took advantage of the
moment and was emboldened to take its
most drastic action in the industrial field
for more that a decade. Without waiting
for its commissioned report on the
wharves, it hurriedly passed legislation to
take the recruitment of waterside labor
out of the hands of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation and introduce pro-
cedures for the possible deregistration for
recalcitrant unions.
As for its general economic policy,
1965 in retrospect could prove to be a
year when the Government took a calcu-
lated risk in letting overseas reserves run
down to serve an over-fully employed
economy. It got away with it without
being at all sure (pace Mr McEwen) that
the process could safely oe repeated in
1966.
Success depended on the authorities
keeping a tight rein on credit to a point
just short of a squeeze. This was coupled
with Treasury policies aimed at stopping
an inflated bill for defence and accumula-
ting Government commitments on a num-
ber of other fronts which would generate
excessive demand. The exercise was com-
plicated by a vigorous upsurge in fixed
investment through the economy. In the
event the threat of excessive economic
activity was kept at bay and, if they were
rather too strong for comfort, the rises in
costs and prices during the year did not
prejudice external viability.
There were patent signs near the year’s
end that the big bite of fiscal and mone-
tary policies was coming on the demand
side. Industrial activity tended to run
down, retail sales to slacken and stocks
to build up. While these trends pre-|
dicated an easing of strains on the balance,
of payments, they also posed the ques-l
tion whether, particularly in face of the
accelerated inflow of migrants and the
record additions of school-leavers to thej
work force, some relaxation of these
policies would soon be warranted.
The Coming Clash
By ALAN REID
TN his last speech of the parliamentary
session to a joint meeting of the
Government Parties, Sir Robert Menzies
deftly pasted attractively patterned wall-
paper over the obvious cracks in the
facade of Liberal - Country Party
solidarity.
Replying to the Government Whip,
Mr William Aston, who had congratu-
lated him on his handling of a difficult
parliamentary session, Menzies said that
the credit was not his. It could be
attributed to the loyalty of the rank-and-
filers and the strength of the Liberal-
Country Party coalition. Menzies added
that Country Party Leader, Mr John
McEwen. had selflessly devoted himself
to the maintenance of cordiality between
the parties.
But even in saying this, Menzies was
underlining the degree to which Liberal-
Country Party solidarity depends upon
the complex of personal relationships
established between Menzies and Mc-
Ewen during long years of association
in both Government and Opposition. If
Menzies retires and McEwen stays, the
wallpaper will almost certainly be torn
down and the cracks displayed in all
their bare ominousness.
For instance, there is the referendum
to break the nexus between the Senate
and the House of Representatives. Under
the Constitution as it now stands the size
of the House of Representatives must
be as nearly as practicable double the
Senate. Once this nexus is broken, the
House of Representatives can grow in
size independently of the Senate and
limited only by growth in Australian
population.
A number of Liberals want the nexus
broken because they believe that in the
long term this must favor them as against
the Country Party. Rural population is
declining, and the cities are absorbing
the additions to the Australian popula-
tion. If Labor takes another beating at
the next Federal elections (and there
are portents to suggest that this is not
an impossibility) the Liberals will move
closer to what is the ambition of many!
of them the capacity to form a
wholly Liberal Government indifferent
to Country Party support.
At present the Liberals have 52 voting
members of the House of Representa-i
tives, the Country Party 20, and Labor!
50. Nominally, the Country Party sup-
ports a “yes” vote in the referendum
which is to be held in May next year,
In return for this support the Country
Party is to get a voting loading in rural]
seats. In this way the Liberal Party's,
advantage of more numerous seats will!
be offset to some degree.
I get the impression, however, that
there is going to be a lot of sabotaging
done on this referendum. As well as
Liberal Senators from smaller States]
such as Queensland. Tasmania and.
Western Australia who are most un-l
happy about anything which will further]
lessen the influence of the smaller States,
the Country Party, while not opposing, is I
obviously not wildly enthusiastic about'
the proposal. |
To add to the distrust which is
poisoning relationships between the
Liberal and Country Parties there are
personality and policy differences which
are almost certain to intensify after
Menzies moves from the scene.
Of the nine Liberal Ministers in the
inner Cabinet of 12, McEwen has quar-
relled on policy or party grounds with
five. The five are Treasurer, Mr Harold
Holt; Labor Minister, Mr William Mc-
Mahon: Defence Minister, Senator Shane
Paltridge; Supply Minister, Mr Allen
Fairhall, and Postmaster-General, Mr |
Alan Hulme.
Almost as if anticipating Menzies’ re-
tirement and the day when he will stand


GIFT OFFER
Bulletin Record
(45 R.P.M. EXT. PLAY)
Chunder
Bo mm
Under
WITH
IX\S
ARRY HUMPHRIES
is available for only 10s. post-free. It has two of
the hits from the show "Excuse I"—the surfie's
"The Old Pacific Sea" and the skier's "Snow
Complications"—with a new ski song especially
composed for this record.
Send 10s. (a cheque or postal note, not cash, please) to
"Bulletin Records", Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney, together
with the coupon and address label below. (Records may
also be purchased over the counter from the Paper Sales
Department, sth floor, Telegraph House, 168 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, Monday to Friday, 9 a m. to 5 p.m.)
FOSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
BULLETIN RECORD(S), price 10s. a copy (post free). I enclose 10s. cheque/postal note.
If mere than o»e record is ordered, attach list giving fall name, address. State and,
if overseas, country.
vis-a-vis Holt as Menzies’ successor, Me-
Ewen is stepping up his campaign on
policy aspects in which he has taken
different lines from those followed by
Holt over recent years. In his speech
to the Federal Council of the Australian
Country Party recently it was almost as
though McEwen was serving notice upon
Holt that he wanted the understanding
under which the Liberals and Country
Party have operated for the past 16
years of the Menzies Government re-
negotiated if the coalition is to continue
under Holt's new management.
Holt has been most reluctant to do
anything about foreign investment on
which McEwen has previously stated
concern. Said McEwen: “This country
cannot continue to run down its reserves
and to depend to the extent that we do
upon the inflow of capital and at the
same time feel that the long-term
future is completely secured.” Holt has
always insisted that the Government is
making available sufficient credits for
primary producers. Said McEwen: “I
don’t think the mortgage branch of the
Commonwealth Bank and later the Deve-
lopment Bank have ever really had
enough money for their purposes. I am
conscious of the fact that there are
thousands of men on the land who don’t
want to be told that if you want some
money go to a Government agency . .
Holt (and other Liberal Ministers)
has been lukewarm about the possibility
of Australia engaging in overseas ship-
ping to share in the bonanza that trade
represents for others as they shift Aus-
tralian coal and iron ore from Australia
to foreign delivery points. Said Mc-
Ewen: “As a growing country, we have
got to put our own exporters in the
same competitive position as the other
fellow who says there is one instrumen-
tality that will facilitate the terms and
give concessional rates of interest.”
There is a whole list of other Liberal-
Country Party differences. But probably
the most fundamental one from the long-
term viewpoint is the referendum to
break the nexus between the House of
Representatives and the Senate. If the
Liberals pull that one off they have a
chance, perhaps only a remote chance,
but certainly some chance of one day
forming a completely Liberal Govern-
ment with a working majority.
Country Party members, including
almost certainly the shrewd McEwen,
know what the Liberals are after and
quite a few of them will be quite open
in their opposition to the referendum.
Liberal-Country Party relations are go-
ing to be thoroughly tested in the coming
year if Menzies decides to retire in cir-
cumstances where McEw'en, as leader of
his Party, has superior political stature
to Menzies’ successor as Prime Minister
and leader of the Liberal Party.


Cannery Row at The Test
It’s not rain , it’s pineapple juice
By BATMAN
IT was a tragedy that weather had
to ruin the First Test. It showed
such promise. Rarely have I been
so un-bored at a Test. I look back with
happiness at the frenetic bowling of the
young Brown, the duel between Veivers
and Parks, the groping struggle between
Boycott and Philpott, and, of course,
the triumph of young Walters.
Why, even the way the solid team of
eleven groundsmen kept rolling up and
putting back those green covers had a
certain elan. Always they did it with
economy of movement, never spilling a
drop of water on the pitch. They do
these things with much style in Bris-
bane.
After this spoiling of the First Test
by monsoonal rain it would be natural
if a demand went up from this power-
ful international cricket writing team for
an end to all Brisbane Tests, with two-
money-making Tests in Sydney and two
in Melbourne. According to the figures,
Brisbane normally expects 4.24 inches in
December. If it could be arranged the
best alternative would be to have the
Brisbane Test in the months beloved by
tourists. I mean, August 1.07 inches or
September 1.69 inches should be the
Test cricket time.
However, if there have been com-
plaints from any newspaperman, they
have been minor indeed. There is a his-
tory to all this and it is a triumph of
public relations. The old ’Gabba is
almost a mirror of Brisbane itself -
blousy, quite hideous, yet in a way pos-
sessing character. Until 1958 it had the
world’s worst conditions for the Press.
At the end of every tour each cricket
writer in his inevitable book would de-
vote a chapter to the horrors of the
’Gabba, suggesting no more Tests for
Brisbane.
Even though general conditions for the
public at the time were sad, the Queens-
land Cricket Association put up this
building for the Press and the players.
Now it is unquestionably the finest
cricket Press box in the world. The view
through the great plateglass windows,
correctly placed behind the wicket, can
only be described as wonderful. It is
roomy. There is a public address system
for providing statistics. Morning tea,
afternoon tea, lunch and unlimited sup-
plies of pineapple juice are provided.
Everybody loves Brisbane. There is
even a movement willing up to get two
Tests for the ‘Gabba. Personally, I
would like to state that all that rain
was very good for the ’Gabba. You must
understand that the ’Gabba is one of
the last of the grounds with trees. There
are a dozen great Moreton Bay figs and
some really splendid poincianas. Norm-
ally the space under the Moreton Bay
figs is a filthy mess of dust. But with
about eight inches of rain in two weeks,
the dusty outer became a sw'ard of soft
grass. One could stretch out in exquisite
comfort. This correspondent was entirely
in favor of the rain. Indeed, even
another inch might have been useful. It
would have given the ’Gabba all the
quality of Fenner's at Cambridge.
There was another interesting point
about the First Test: it had a controversy.
You can’t let a whole Test match go
through without a controversy, and to
get the full feeling for this one you must
appreciate that there wasn’t much play
on the Friday and none whatever on
the Saturday. Something had to be
found for the Sunday papers.
In the seventh ball of the first over,
according to the English Press, Lawry
gloved a ball off Brown into the hands
of Parks. “Blatantly out” he was, yet he
went on “unashamedly” that day to make
53 runs “without turning a hair”. Alf
Gover told all this in London's “Sunday
Mirror”. Crawford White told it in the
“Sunday Express”.
It is always most interesting what
cricket does for Commonwealth re-
lations. There was no need for the Party
whips to go into action. Solidarity was
magnificent right down Party lines. The
English writers were convinced that the
ball came off the glove, Australian writers
were utterly sure it came off the thigh.
There was a little wavering. Keith Miller
had “Lawry caught fair and square” and
Frank Tyson seemed to be of the un-
caught school, but those fellows seem
to be in opposite camps these times. I
would say that final battle honors were
about even. Several Englishmen saw the
incident through their “powerful binocu-
lars”, but then they were cancelled out
by equally powerful Australian
binoculars.
All this had a most interesting effect
both on the play and the barracking.
When Lawry was ultimately out, caught
Parks, bowled Higgs, 166, he was quite
magnificent. He did not look around. I
think he was' halfway to the pavilion
before anyone had time to appeal.
As for the barracking, you have to
visualise the picture in “Cannery Row”
under the Moreton Bay figs in the Out-
er. There empty tins of Castlenaine
XXXX are in great yellow piles. Every-
thing is rather informal. Actually you are
i\Wi'S INSECT world
"Blasted home units."
"Here we go boring reminiscences about when he
was attached to the 6th Div."


formally dressed if you have socks on.
Over the year the standard chant has
been “Ave a go, yer mug.” This phrase
has been developed and nourished, and
the good barracker feels the need to call
it out every 30 seconds. It now has been
replaced by “Walk, ya mug” or, in ex-
treme cases, “Walk, ya donkey.” On
Tuesday, December 14, at Wooloon-
gabba, it was called out 2347 times,
creating a new record for a phrase in its
first appearance at a Test Match. The
bare-footed gentlemen under the More-
ton Bay figs made splendid use of it.
They told Barber, Edrich, Boycott,
Smith, Barrington, Parks and Titmus all
to walk. On one or two occasions they
also told the umpires to walk.
You may think the phrase has a limit-
ed function, but this is not so. It is ver-
satile. It can be brought out on all sorts
of occasions after any mishit, or
streaky glance, after any bump ball, after
misses, near stumpings, near run-outs and
upon all occasions when ball hits pad or
thigh.
There were some very good “walking”
moments, but the one 1 savored came
early in the piece. Here the Australian
side entered splendidly into the spirit of
the thing. Allan was bowling and Boy-
cott hung out his bat, appearing to touch
it. Grout, who at times even has the
touch of Sir John Gielgud about him,
threw himself at the ball and rolled on
the ground, the catch triumphantly held.
Everyone in sight appealed. Boycott, un-
ashamedly, non-hair-turning, stood there.
Cannery Row passed comment: “Walk,
ya donkev, WALK, WALK, WALK,
WALK.”
Umpire Rowan did nothing. It was a
tense moment. Incidentally, I watched
the entire incident through my remark-
ably powerful, but small, coated field
glasses, and can only say that it was
one of the most dramatic misses of the
tour. Boycott missed it by five inches.
As I said before, I look back with
happiness upon this Test. Take the debut
of young Doug Walters. He had to come
in at a devilish moment, to face Fred Tit-
mus. Apart from someone like Wesley
Hall, I think I would rather make my
Test debut against almost anyone than
Titmus. He’s an old county pro and he
knows the tricks.
With his short, bandy legs he dances
up to the wicket on tiptoe with the ball
between both hands, yet the fingers inter-
twined as if he were mixing the most
extraordinary of spells. He carries one
elbow high so that it appears uncomfort-
ably out of joint, and he bowls.
For Walters he brought four men
right on to the bat and, after bowling
the first ball, he paused for the long,
slow glare with the look “Brother, were
you ever lucky to get out of that one”.
But Walters was terribly unmoved. The
next ball he straight drove Titmus for
four.
Walters had the sort of sangfroid
shown by Stanley Korman at a directors’
meeting. He didn't pull at his cap all
the time like Bill Lawry, he didn't keep
patting and pawing the wicket dike lan
Redpath, or keep hitching his trousers
like Titmus, or keep chewing gum like
everyone else in the team.
Young Master Walters unemotionally
set about making a lot of runs. Yet the
strange part was the man who had been
so calm before later turned on the most
awful bout of the “nervous nineties” we
had ever seen. No doubt he suddenly
realised he was achieving glory; that he
was going in the record books with Ban-
nerman, Collins, Harvey, Burke and the
other very select gentlemen who had
made a century in their first Test match.
Cannery Row was really very good
about it. Not a body went home. No-
body jeered, nobody told him to “Walk,
ya donkey” or even “Ave a go”. They
perspired over the accumulation of every
"Fancy falling for THAT old trick.”
" There's Ladybird, but that's not
LBJ with her."
"We hove all your natural enemies plus French chefs!”
"My husbands and!"


single. When he was nearly run out at
94 they pleaded “NO, NO, NO.” The
only plea for him to get on with it came
from a character who called: “FOR
GOD’S SAKE GET ON WITH IT,
DOUGIE. IT’LL BLOODY WELL
RAIN TOMORRER.” And there was
real logic in this.
When he did hit his triumphant cen-
tury-scoring shot, the cheering went on
and on. The Englishmen all clapped.
Veivers shook his hand, but Walters,
apart from touching his cap, didn’t quite
know what to do. I felt that it would
have been a great help if they could
have turned on curtain calls like for Joan
Sutherland with “Lucia”.
And I remember Philpott, yes, par-
ticularly Philpott. It is marvellous to see
the return of a leg spinner of the Doug
Ring type. Here's a man who is brave
enough to toss the ball right up to get
his spin. The Englishmen were frighten-
ed to use their feet to him. Wally Grout
was always there behind the stumps like
a gallows man, waiting, so they stretched
and contorted with one toe behind the
crease.
There were no brilliant Freddie True-
man-like personalities, but the crowd was
fascinated by the English captain, Mike
Smith. He looks so utterly unlike the
Captain of England. He has these thin,
gold-rimmed spectacles. He has luscious
pink cheeks like the school captain of St
Hilda’s and a constant strained quizzical
expression. Then he always wears this
floppy white hat as if he were about to
say “I say, you chaps, what about a
couple of sets of tennis.” Yet he moves
very quickly in the field, and he can
give the ball a lusty but awkward smack.
And that's it, one never completely over-
comes the idea that he is chiefly in the
team for his PR ability.
Cannery Row was inclined to greet
him with the type of English it had
learned in the “Magnet” and the “Gem”.
When he hit a four they called out “Bai
Jove, we are going well, aren’t we?” Or
when with a mighty sweep he complete-
ly missed a ball off Philpott: “Oh dear,
was it a four, old chap?”
There w'ere tedious moments. The
crowd never enthused over Boycott and
although Bill Lawry performed splendid-
ly at times for his 166, he was so un-
loved. There is something so entirely
dogged and inevitable about Lawry. It is
curious how years afterwards the people
that stick in one’s memory are cricketers
of this type: the Baileys, the Mackays
and the Lawrys. Life does not seem quite
long enough to cope with them.
But otherwise the First Test was a
yery pleasant way of putting in a Test.
Forgive them that rain. As they tell the
tourists when it rains in the Sunshine
State: it’s not rain, it’s pineapple juice.
Bolte’s First Ten Years
One Premier who actually likes the Press
By PATRICK TEN NISON
1 might as well be completely honest
and say right at the start that after
spending an hour in solo interview
with Henry Bolte, he more than ev?r
strikes me as a most unlikely man to be
Premier of the most conservative State,
Victoria.
The cliche “down to earth” is not
broad enough to cover this extraordinary
man; he seems completely grass roots
with an immense thrust, a genuine
gregariousness, well-grained rural hard-
headedness, a determined grasp of know-
ing what he is doing but, through it all,
a delightful streak of unabashed vulgarity
with none of the pseudo-intellectual
undertones that that sort of thing comes
with in, say, Canberra.
The indisputable fact remains that not
only is he Premier of Victoria, but a
couple of weeks ago he passed the 10-
year record term of office previously held
by Albert Dunstan from 1935 to 1945.
What is more, the way things are at the
moment, he looks quite capable of hold-
ing the job for another 10 years if he
wants it. He has achieved this in a State
notorious for its changes of political
office.
The secret in Henry Bolte’s amazing
case seems to be a mixture of several
things: he became Premier almost by
accident and even slightly to his own
surprise; he is a concentrative thinker
and planner; he has strangely persuasive
leadership qualities- learned early as the
short-built kid who invariably wound up
as captain of school sport teams; he
plays politics and politicians with a kind
of clear-eyed, Davy Crockett seemingly
simple innocence that masks his tough-
ness; and he does it all with a devastat-
ing, even sometimes embarrassing, lack
of formality that appeals widely for its
fair dinkumness.
Now 57, he, is a farmer’s son who
became a farmer himself with few
thoughts of politics until 1945 when Sir
Robert Menzies went through the country
organising his new Liberal Party. Bolte
had his first meeting with Menzies that
year when he joined the party and stood
as a Liberal candidate for the State elec-
tion. He lost then, but entered Parlia-
ment at the election two years later. He
had been at Ballarat Grammar School
with the Party’s then State leader, Tom
Hollway, and this plus the fact that
he was a country member were big
factors in his getting the Mines portfolio
a few years later. Hollway broke away
from the Party, being succeeded by Les
Norman and again that country back-
ground proved helpful when in 1951
only four years after entering Parlia-
ment —Henry Bolte became the Party’s
deputy leader. Norman lost his seat and
was replaced as leader by Trevor Old-
ham. Oldham was killed in a plane crash
in 1953 and Bolte became the Party’s


State leader. But he was then an almost
unknown leader of almost nothing; at
that time his Liberal band numbered only
11 in the 65-member Lower House. The
ALP split literally thrust him into the
Premier’s chair two years later, but it is
there the outside influences end. The
rest of his history he has made himself,
gleefully from time to time turning back
on those who coined them the 1955
cracks about Backwoodsman Bolte, Care-
taker Leader and Billy from the Bush.
Today Bolte leads the State with the
fastest growing and richest per capita
population, with probably the smallest
unemployment worries and with the
widely acclaimed greatest potential, par-
ticularly since the recent discovery of
underground natural gas. He is also
quick to point out that he is the only
non-Labor leader in power anywhere in
the country not dependent on Country
Party support. Once in power, he plugged
away at what now looks like scientific
earnestness at shoring up the Liberal
Party around and behind himself . . .
“If I’ve got a phobia about anything,
it’s keeping the Party together. You’re
rarely beaten from without. I've always
been more concerned with my own Party
than the Labor Party. I w'as there when
our Party in Victoria split asunder twice
and I learned a lot from how' all that
happened.”
Associates frequently describe him as
a loner in operation, a broad charge
that he denies. “It’s true 1 rarely seek
advice. If I can’t make up my own
mind on whatever I’m going to do, I feel
whatever I do will be wrong. I don’t
think the major decisions are grey. Most
of them are black and white. The times
I have sought advice have been the times
I’ve made mistakes. If you seek advice,
you want to be told you are right or you
want to do something you believe wrong,”
One of the few mistakes he will admit
to. and which was based on sought
advice, was his abortive bid to re-initiate
State income tax last year.
But he maintains he is not secretive
with his Party—once he has made the
decisions: “No leader has ever taken his
Party into his confidence the same as I
have. The only things I keep strictly to
myself are my own budgets, which some-
times Cabinet doesn’t see until after they
are in print, and my policy speeches or
major policy statements.”
So, with the Party well behind him, he
has assiduously carried on the wooing
and counter-wooing with an only oc-
casionally truculent local Press. (He
never reads interstate papers.) In his own
undisputed words, he gets on “extra well”
with the Press, at all levels. “I’ve never
had to have anything retracted or with-
drawn that I’ve been quoted on. On the
rare occasion I believe a reporter has
been wrong, I never let on.”
He enjoys equally trusted relations also
with the local newspaper proprietors. “I
see Sir John Williams and the others at
the ‘Herald’ quite regularly and we’re
good mates even at the times we dis-
agree. I saw them and also had good
relations with the chiefs at ‘The Age’
even right through the Tait hanging
business when they were all against me.
He does admit to some surprise at the
storm that blew up a few years ago over
his Government’s decision to hang mur-
derer Tait. “That was a funny one to
assess. There was a lot of stunting and
quite a bit of politics mixed up. No
matter what the issue is, you always get
plenty of supporters in favor of having
you kicked out. I still believe—in fact
I know the majority of people still
favor retaining capital punishment. I
still do, too. I was particularly surprised
because I thought if capital punishment
was to be retained, he was one out of
dozens the penalty should stay for.”
That other Victorian issue that re-
peatedly gets national notoriety book
banning —is one area he has never
dabbled in: “No, no. I leave all that to
Arthur (Rylah).” Never having more
than a slight interest in books, anyway,
he says that nowadays he hardly ever
reads one. His main spare time relaxants
are the newspapers and TV. He likes
the Sunday TV sports show, Meet the
Press and movies, particularly English
ones.
Looking back, over the Tail brouhaha
and other anti-Bolte swells that had
strong undergraduate backing, he today
has a benign, almost deific, forgive-and-
forgetness. “I’m proud of the fact that
it took this State 100 years to get 7000
university students, and then in the 10
years I've been here that number has
grown to 18,000. I’m happier with the
university position now. A lot of the past
troubles were because the university was
understaffed and staffs were underpaid.
That situation lent itself to a lot of dis-
satisfaction.”
Dazzling insight or stilted over-simpli-
fication? It gets harder to judge.
One of his claims is that he has no
political enemies in Parliament. Outside
"No wonder I never enjoy me Christmas dinner.”


m
©
©
(S
CttO
p
p
XI
o
■INCLUDE SINGAPORE • THE LION CITY IN YOUR
ORIENT TOUR PLAN.
Modern, bustling Singapore has been aptly named
the Lion City. Here 1£ million Singaporean Chinese,
Malays and Indians live side by side - here you will
find the Orient’s most fascinating blending of
colourful customs, costumes and cultures * Stopover
• You’ll want to stay!
■ EXTRA PACKAGE OF HOLIDAY HAPPINESS
further north • no more than an hour by air * lies
the beautiful States of Malaya. You’ve read about
it in books • now see it for yourself. See Kuala
Lumpur • Federal Capital of Malaysia - See beautiful
Penang - the Pearl of Orient - Island holiday resort
of Malaysia.
■ SERVED BY RENOWNED SILVER KRIS JET
Throughout Malaysia - throughout South East Asia
from Singapore - you’ll get there faster, get there
in real comfort when you fly by Malaysian Airways’
Silver Kris Jet. And in the air you’ll enjoy a superb
cabin service attended by charming hostesses.
WEEKLY
FREQUENCIES
SINGAPORE/HONGKONG »9|
KUALA LUMPUR/ HONGKONG ■ 31
JESSEUON/ HONGKONG ■ 2
PENANG/BANGKOK -4
KUALA LUMPUR/BANGKOK-3
SINGAPORE/BANGKOK »7
Jest
MALAYSIAN
AIRWAYS
SERVING SOUTH EAST ASIA
CONSULT YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR QANTAS OUR GENERAL SALES AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA
Parliament, too, he believes they are rare,
xcept in one strenuous area. “A lot of
fade union peope think I’m both ends
if a bastard,” he says with that disarming
iarthiness. “But one of my mottoes is
lever let anybody get under your skin.”
i This casual bonhomie towards friend
md foe alike is something he is able to
arry out with the blunt sort of grace
tnd charm that bedevil profile writers,
fhe untutored, slightly hoarse voice
opped with the strongly straight-and-true
ntense blue eyes reel off simple Elbert
Hubbardisms one minute, swing suddenly
the next to easy goingness of a slightly
different kind. For example:
“I’m so busy in this job I’ve tried to
cut away all the unnecessary frills. I
don’t even read my own Hansard proofs
any more now. I know it’s rare for
any politician, but it’s true. And they
know I don’t and so they’re a bloody
sight more careful of mine than any-
body else’s.”
It is in occasional odd twists like this
that the man and the real power and
compulsion in him come out. He gets a
kick out of his good naturedness and
has also found it can work for him. This
was revealed pertinently a few years ago
when he was at a small dinner party in
a Melbourne hotel and saw a group of
about 12 unknown people celebrating at
another dinner nearby. He called a
waiter and sent drinks to the other party
“with the compliments of the Premier”.
The recipients, surprised at first, came
to his table with profuse thanks. When
they had gone, the Premier winked and
confided to his party: “That’s how we get
votes. There are 12 voters for me now.”
It was all in jest to an indefinable
point. The fact that he jokingly confided
a background reason for his gesture so
freely indicated a considerable lack of
guile, anyway. The gesture just for the
gesture was more important.
Just as close contact can make an
observer wonder about the man and his
job, he himself gets genuinely disturbed
to a point of annoyance when people
stand in any sort of awe of him. “I can
never understand people getting nervous
meeting me. You should see some of
them, twitching and a real jumble of
nerves. I'm still the same bloke I always
was.”
In an extension of this his favorite
anecdote he tells against himself hap-
pened during an election campaign out
in the country when he wss travelling
around in an old utility meeting con-
stituents. Never a dapper dresser, he
was in casual sports clothes and a bit
grimy after tripping around when he
came to a farm where the only person
to meet him was a small boy.
“Is your father in?” asked the Premier.
“No.”
“Your mother, then?”
“She's out, too,” said the boy firmly.
“But it doesn’t matter, ’cos I know we
haven’t any bottles.”
Once in politics, he has always sought
to live right in them completely. A major
regret in his life—and one that is very
rarely mentioned —is that he and the
girl next door to his country home who
became his wife, Jill, are childless.
He is always in his office before nine
each morning, tries to get his administra-
tive work out of the way by midday and
leave afternoons free for receiving
visitors and deputations and meetings.
More evenings than not he attends social
functions. He smokes heavily—about 50
cigarettes daily—and drinks easily and
well whenever there are people, con-
versation and beer or whisky.
So strongly is he entrenched in every
way that he is by now used to the well-
wishers who suggest he could stay in his
present office another 10 years.
“No, I still want to fight the next
election here in 1967 and then—well—
I’ll have three years to think it over.”


SHEAD’S
TIP
"Here's another gem to add to our treasure, darling."
"I wish they'd keep them out. They lower the
tone of the place."
"John, keep the child away from the Victorian stuff, it's bad for his mind."
"Hoyy much for this old frame?"
"My mistake, I thought it was art noveau
but it was enly an old tap."


NEW YORK NEWSLETTER
The Medium is the Message
From GEORGE McGANN
To the mind manipulators on Madi-
son Avenue, the “think big” pro-
duction boys in Detroit, the intel-
lectual jet-setters everywhere, those five
words have taken on the cosmic sig-
nificance of Einstein’s E = me 2 .
“The medium is the message” is the
principal pronouncement of Marshall
McLuhan, a middle-aged, mild-mannered
university professor in Toronto (Toron-
to!) whose far-out ideas, theories, prog-
nostications and prejudices on Communi-
cations have suddenly made him the
most sought-after, listened-to, talked-
about, quoted (and misquoted) authority
on the current technological revolution.
Due to the pressure of more immedi-
ate matters, I was rather late in realising
the impact of the McLuhan Phenomenon.
I was vaguely aware that Professor
McLuhan existed, from glancing through
such disparate publications as the “New
Republic”, “Women’s Wear Daily” and
“Electronic World”. But when Tom Wolfe
did him over, in an explosion of pop-art
prose, in “New York Magazine”, the
Sunday supplement of the “New York
Herald-Tribune”, I hopped to it. To
bring myself up to date, I tried unsuc-
cessfully to buy McLuhan’s most recent
book, “Understanding Media”. I had no
luck in any New York bookshop—either
with the hard-cover edition (at £3 Aus-
tralian) or the paperback version. Eventu-
ally a young friend, an editor at the
publishing company, McGraw-Hill, lent
me an office copy.
“He’s our hottest writer,” my friend
informed me. “We can’t keep his books
in stock, either this one or ‘The Mechani-
cal Bride’ or ‘The Gutenberg Galaxy’.
It’s the damnedest thing. Particularly
since no one really understands them.”
Before tackling the book, I researched
Professor McLuhan in the morgue of the
“New York Times”, to which I have
access through the providential accident
of tenancy in the Times Building. This
proved to be an eye-opening experience.
Here are some of my scribbled notes
from an hour with the McLuhan cut-
tings, culled from all sorts of newspapers,
periodicals and book reviews:
“Marshall McLuhan. Suppose he is
what he sounds like—the most important
thinker since Newton, Darwin, Freud,
Einstein and Pavlov suppose he is
right?”
“He has been described as a happen-
ing, an intellectual mad-hatter, a com-
municator who can’t communicate —the
high priest of pop culture. He says he's
being read by people who want ‘to
learn what the hell is going on’.”
“ ‘Understanding Media’ is the most
important work on communications ever
done. Gulping it is akin to trying to
fill a teacup from a fire hose. I realise
McLuhan’s not everyone’s cup of fire-
water, but then maybe people with tea-
cups ought to stick to tea.”
“Five years ago, only McLuhan and
God knew what McLuhan was talkipg
about. Today I’m not sure God still
knows.”
“McLuhan has new ways of examin-
ing the world. He is a fresh eye, an
exuberant voice. He has relentless in-
tellectual courage and essential optimism.
When I first met McLuhan, I was
warned I would find a complete mad-
man, though a delightful and interesting
one. Now he is asked to lecture at such
places as the Advanced Management
School for General Electric, which either
means the world is growing madder or
that for the past 25 years McLuhan has
been right.”
“McLuhan does what he pleases, in-
cluding wearing a lumberjack shirt and
an ugly suit. He delights in shocking
whomever he meets. ‘This cigar,’ he once
told a friend who had accused him of
pandering to modern civilisation, ‘was
hand-rolled along the thigh of a
Tahitian maiden’.”
Beyond comprehension
“At the University of Toronto faculty
he is known as ‘Babble’ or ‘The
Last of the Great Eccentrics’ or ‘Our
Genius’. An ardent McLuhanist said:
‘Marshall is one of the great areas of
human knowledge, like the working of
the solar system or wireless communica-
tions—but, like computers, he must re-
main forever beyond my comprehen-
sion’.”
“I’ve known McLuhan for many
years. He is difficult, arrogant, and gives
the impression of being a charlatan, but
I have no reason to doubt that he is
utterly sincere.”
“McLuhan’s every minute is spent ex-
ploring, searching, questioning—reshap-
ing the view of the contemporary world.
He swings from the hip. He’s always on
the go-go. Cool lectures in hot Florida.
Celebrating on a yacht in the Aegean.
Writing books —and book reviews.
Monologuing at Fordham and Columbia
Universities. Captains of industry beat a
path to his door for 10,000-dollar con-
sultations. He is a stream of conscious-
ness —reality translated into images, flow-
ing without regard to writing or dia-
logue.”
There were a lot more tantalising
quotations but I felt that I was now
ready for the undiluted McLuhan him-
self. Unfortunately, I discovered the
Canadian whiz-kid was a lot more in-
teresting to read about than to read.
“Understanding Media” proved rough
going indeed, so rough that I got
through it only by skipping passages and
pages at a time, in endeavoring to distil
the essential heady McLuhan liquor out
of the yeasty, boiling vat.
“After three thousand years of ex-
plosion, by means of fragmentary and
mechanical technologies, the Western
world is imploding.” That was the open-
ing sentence in “Understanding Media”
and things did not get much better after
that.
Some 358 pages later I emerged with
the following shaky outline of the Mc-
Luhan thesis:
The electronic age, with its computers,
television, radio, space exploration and
the rest of the technology, comprises a
completely new environment. This en-
vironment radically changes the way
people use their five senses and their
reactions, and in effect changes their
lives and the whole of society. Tele-
vision, jet plane travel and the rest
have converted the entire world into a
global village (another famous Mc-
Luhanism).
Millions of people under 25 have
grown up in this new environment. They
have a different way of reacting to the
world than the generation before them.
They are so conditioned by television, for
example, that they find traditional teach-
ing methods in school alien and difficult
to grasp—they are aural people, tactile
people, rather than visual people.
Primitive people were tribal people
and their sense of hearing was domin-
ant. They got most of their information
by listening. Then came the great print-
ing press revolution and the written word
became dominant. People got most of
their information from reading. Out of
the written word came the creation of
the modern economy. Now the new
technologies have caused another up-
heaval. The electronic media with the
emphasis on the aural sense (although
the eye is also used, as in TV) have
profoundly altered man’s entire way of
living—his total environment. Man is
again a tribal animal. The implications
for the immediate future are enormous.
Suburbs will replace cities. Even cars
will eventually disappear (General
Motors, take note!) and give way to
faster instant transportation. People
will work at home connected to the cor-
poration by closed-circuit TV, computer
systems and similar electronic communi-
cation. Cities will cease to be places
of work and become playthings.
To sum up, “the medium is the mes-
sage”. All clear?


A Strong Dose of Reality
“ An awkward and slightly unpalatable figure ”
From PHILIP TOYNBEE in London
As a popular writer Somerset
Maugham, who died on December
16, was always something of a
freak. Observant, witty, never eschewing
cruelty when cruelty was appropriate, he
might well have been condemned for
“nastiness”. His success was reward for
his skill.
The organisation of his stories was
remarkable, and his narrative gift was
equalled, in our time, only by such
frankly frivolous writers as Sapper and
John Buchan. Among the highbrows
Maugham has always been an awkward
and slightly unpalatable figure. This was
due not only to his popularity
Maugham was, when all is said and done,
a superficial writer in the most literal
sense.
His delight was to observe and record,
and whenever he hinted at explanations
he faltered into facilities of judgment
which clearly showed that he would have
done better to content himself with his
brilliant treatment of appearances. His
“great” novel, “Of Human Bondage”, was
a failure simply because greatness of this
sort was altogether outside his scope. Nor
can it be claimed that Maugham wrote,
in detail, well. His pages are loaded
with cliche, descending at times to such
preposterous vulgarities as “she was ex-
quisitely gowned”.
This may seem a heavy indictment.
But Maugham’s real achievement is not
touched by such criticisms as this. He
was anything but a writer’s writer, and
what he did was to make a really im-
portant contribution to the emancipation
of English attitudes. When one reflects
that his immediate predecessors in public
esteem were Marie Corelli and Hall
Caine, one sees what a revolution he
helped to bring about in popular taste.
Instead of false and romantic dreams
Maugham provided bitter doses of real-
ity. T. S. Eliot pointed out that human
beings “cannot bear very much reaiity”.
It was Maugham’s notable achievement
to make them bear a good deal more
than they had been willing to do before
him.
Born in Paris, where his father was
solicitor to the British Embassy, he was
soon an orphan. He was schooled, un-
happily—his stammer was a torment —
in England. He proceeded to the study
of medicine in St Thomas’ Hospital and
to the enjoyment of liberty in lodgings.
After qualifying as a doctor he began
his professional life as an accoucheur to
the mothers of Lambeth Walk, where
this devotee of pleasure learnt a great
deal about pain. This lesson he was
never to forget. He always despised the
idealist philosophy that calls pain an illu-
sion and evil merely part of a higher
good.
He had soon set up as an author, writ-
ten “Lisa of Lambeth” from his im-
mediate observations, and had some mod-
erate poverty to endure. This was some-
thing else which Maugham did not for-
get. He was always most generous to
new talent, and gave a large sum of
money to provide leisure and travel fof
young writers recommended by young
judges.
In spite of his great popularity, he
kept out of public life and out of the
limelight, too. Continually threatened by
tuberculosis, he had very good reason
for avoiding the dusty forum, the heat of
politics and the clatter of the salons.
Much of his writing life was spent in
his beautiful villa on Cap Ferrat, where
he made a magnificent collection of mod-
ern painting. Though he was intermit-
tently brilliant as a dramatist he was
never stage-struck.
The tight-drawn lips, once covered by
a clipped moustache, used to suggest the
mixture of a military martinet with an
ascetic saint. Maugham was neither; he
was frankly a pleasure-seeker. He used
to work with concentration through a
four-hour morning. Then he lunched,
slept, talked, read, dined, played bridge
or gin rummy until his bedtime at 10.30.
He hated large and hearty companies.
He also hated scenery. This will seem
to the more sociable and self-indulgent
a bleak kind of epicureanism. But
pleasure lies in delicacy of taste as well
as in width and depth. Maugham, know-
ing just what he pursued, was a quite
deliberate and successful hunter of per-
sonal delights. No less deliberate in his
writings, his stories have had an impon-
derable but enormous effect on the con-
temporary mind.
Scorfield the Leonine
XpDWARD SCAFE (“Ted”) SCORFIELD,
Bulletin cartoonist from 1925
to 1961, died on December 11, aged
83. Ted, a tall, lean, rugged Geordie,
was born in North Shields, Newcastle-
on-Tyne, and as a youth his interests
were football he played Rugby
Union for England against France—
rowing and pen-drawing. In World
War I Ted Scorfield was in the Gal-
lipoli landing with the British forces
who suffered so heavily at Cape Helles
and Siivla Bay. After Gallipoli he
fought in the Salonika campaign, and
finished the war a sergeant with two
mentions-in-dispatches.
Ted had submitted drawings to
Percy Bradshaw’s art-school in Lon-
don. In 1925 Bradshaw noted that
The Bulletin was trying to find in
London an additional staff cartoonist,
and mentioned this to Scorfield, who
was about to accept an offer from the
Johannesburg “Star”. He decided to
join The Bulletin instead, and
arrived in Australia in April, 1925.
His lifetime began a little earlier
and ended a little later than that of
David Low. But although he greatly
admired Low, Scorfield’s work was
uniquely his own. He also admired
Bernard Partridge’s faithful attention
to anatomy and detail; but the Part-
ridge ecclesiastical formality and
composition were not Ted’s “hand-
writing” either. He preferred a sub-
ject and composition where he could
employ the lively, supple lines which
came so naturally with his drawings
of animals and men of action.
But Ted did some magnificent
serious cartoons. His British lion
breaking out of its bonds at the turn-
ing-point of World War 11, reprinted
as a special feature in “The New York
Times”, was one of these. Many
would say it typified the man him-
self. There was much that was leonine
about Scorfield.
Scorfield, in his period, was one of
the world’s foremost political cartoon-
ists and humorists. He did much of
his best work during World War II
and in the following decade. His
Bulletin caricature commentary on
Dr Evatt was unsurpassed in effect,
without ever being malicious. Alto-
gether, a rugged soldier and sports-
man, a cartoonist who employed
humor and caricature with great force.
DAVID ADAMS


/£S\
Whisky
0
want a
mature
full-bodied
scotch?
Don’t be vague, ask for
Haig
K 4225
ON THE MARGIN
The Stories of the Year
YI/'ith the year’s end approaching, I
have made a selection of my favor-
ite news items of 1965. Here they are,
as they appeared in the papers:
Melbourne.— Representative girl swim-
mers have a right to a little fun, said a
leading swimming official.
He is Mr Sid Paddle, secretary of the
Australian Amateur Swimming Associa-
tion. He was commenting on reports
that two members of the Australian
women's swimming team did the Dance
of the Seven Veils at a wild party during
the championships in Honolulu.
“The Association regards the girls’
dance as a harmless prank,” said Mr
Paddle. “I only wish I had been there to
see it.”
Sydney.—William Gumbril, 31, appeared
in court today with his face showing cuts
and bruises.
Gumbril was charged with offensive
behavior and resisting arrest.
His solicitor, Mr T. Streetley, said:
“My client suffered a severe fall down
the steps leading to the cells after his
arrest. I would like to take this
opportunity of thanking the police
officers who gave him first aid.”
London.— The future of Prince
Charles is the subject of a reported
disagreement in the Royal Family.
The Duke of Edinburgh is
said to favor a proposal that
the Prince become a Press photographer.
The Queen opposes the idea, on the
ground that this occupation would ex-
pose the Heir to the Throne to unneces-
sary risks.
Cape Kennedy. —Astronaut Lieut-Com-
mander James Bolder was given a hero’s
welcome on his return from his success-
ful flight in spacecraft Pluto 111.
A jarring note was struck by Lieut-
Commander Bolder’s pretty blonde wife
Jane, who refused to pose for pictures
with her husband.
In a frank interview, she said: “Jim
and I are splitting up. The louse has been
two-timing me with a WAAC on the
launching pad.”
Katmandu, Nepal. —Wilfred Grimper-
Smyth, English mountaineer, has aban-
doned his attempt to climb Mt. Dedly-
unga, last unconquered peak in the
Himalayas.
He said in explanation: “When I got
to thinking about it, I couldn’t see the
point in risking my neck to get to the top
of this mountain.
“People keep saying one must climb it
because it is there, but I don’t believe
that is a good enough reason. The whole
idea is silly.”
London.-— “ Australians are cultured
people with sophisticated tastes in theatre
and the arts.”
Albert Saymore, Australian playwright
living in London, said this in a BBC tele-
vision interview.
Asked why he preferred to work in
England, Saymore replied: “I came here
purely for the money. Culture is all very
well but, brother, I love that beautiful
lettuce.”
Melbourne. — Detectives investigating the
killing of “Chuck” McGoon, well-known
gambling identity, expect to make an
early arrest.
McGoon was shot dead by a gunman
in front of a crowd of people at a social
gathering in Fitzroy.
“The underworld has been very co-
operative,” said Detective-Sgt W. Higgs,
“In fact, we have been embarrassed by
the number of people who came forward
to give information about the shooting.”
Canberra. — Members of the House of
Representatives yesterday voted
by a large majority to reduce
their salaries by £5OO a year.
Opposition Members supported
the Government on the measure.
The Prime Minister, proposing
the salary cut, said: “It is our
duty to set an example in re-
ducing government expenditure.”
The Leader of the Opposition said:
“This is a non-Party issue. I have felt for
some time that the rewards of Parliamen-
tary life are disproportionately large in
relation to the services we render.”
New York. —A dream came true last
night for Australian soprano Gloria
Chanter.
As understudy to Maria Callas who
has tonsillitis she was called on at
short notice to step into the role of Vio-
letta in La Traviata.
Newspaper critics today said Miss
Chanter's performance was “amateurish”
and “shockingly bad'’.
Woy Woy, NSW. —Two years ago Mr
Ted Watford lost his wrist watch, which
fell into the water whilst he was fishing
from a dinghy.
On Saturday he caught a 10-lb jewfish
at the same spot.
When cleaning the fish he noticed a
hard object in its stomach. He found it
was a mussel shell.
ROSS CAMPBELL


THE INTELLIGENT WOMAN'S GUIDE
The Bijou
Lavatory
It had to come, of course. Trudging
through town, limply attached to my
Christmas present list, I arrived at a
shop entirely devoted to the concept of
the Bijou Lavatory.
Between the darling little flower-
bordered plaque that announced “Here
’tis” and the yards of pink tulle whose
rose shape disguised The Thing Itself
lay a variety of cunning deceptions.
A sort of gayer tea cosy to put over
the musical roll of lavatory paper (which,
in any case, you could buy printed all
over with tiny roses to make it less of
a shock) reminded me of the days when
telephones, those offensive and unlovely
objects, were similarly tea-cosied.
Rich and furry pastel floor mats (whose
truncated shape somehow suggested the
guillotine or the stocks) to protect your
feet from cold tiles, rich and furry seat-
covers, too. Shells and plastic flowers to
twine lovingly through the chain.
Everlasting bowls of scented plastic
violets to keep the room sweet, and gilt-
edged flower-shaped soap with which to
wash your hands afterwards in the water
coming from a tap disguised as a nose-
less beast (rather unfortunate, that).
I should have been prepared. I have
recently seen several glossy advertise-
ments showing a water closet bedizened
with enormous red satin bow, placed on
the front steps outside an obviously chic
house, the whole thing captioned, “Im-
portant arrival at ‘First House’.” But, of
course, I always assume you would re-
move the bow first.
I’m afraid the whole thing made me
long for those stark lavatories (modelled
on Eastern traditions) which uncompro-
misingly present you with a hole in the
ground and two corrugated metal or por-
celain feet, and from which you have to
leap with agility and precision if you are
to avoid being flushed to the knee when
you pull the chain. Or even for my
favorite Victorian water-closet with
which I lived for some time in London.
A large blue-and-white china bowl de-
corated with fish, mermaids, flowers and
sea creatures, with a beautiful mahogany
seat and named stalwartly, in ornamental
blue letters, Cedric, a Celtic word that
means War Chief.
But I suppose it, too, was thought to
be effete. Just as the Elizabethans thought
Sir John Harington’s original water-
closet a new-fangled gimmick. Sir John
wrote one of the most elaborate medi-
tations on the water-closet, punningly
called “Metamorphosis of Ajax” (a jakes,
i.e., a privy), which contained the sen-
tentious advice —
“To keepe your houses sweet, dense
privie vaultes;
To keepe your soules as sweet, mend
privie faults.”
I can’t see Sir John approving of all
that rose-colored tulle. And I can’t see
Cedric wearing it.
Christmas
Cheer
Have you ever got to the end of the
year and just not wanted to
assault your system with any more
alcohol?
It’s all very well for Jeanne Moreau
in that great Provencal chateau of hers,
where she hopes one day to board all her
ex-lovers in a sort of Salvation Army
Hostel for the sexually exhausted, to say
coldly, “I never drink”. Somehow I
don't seem to have the moral stature for
that sort of remark.
I have tried “I’m sorry, my mother
just died of cirrhosis and I'm trying to
keep off it for a bit”, and “I think I
have a teeny recurrence of my infectious
hepatitis”. But both of these have dis-
astrous social consequences. I hate
standing around with a long glass of
warm lemonade practising my Sex Life
in Ancient Rome Face on myself.
I have also tried, “Oh, tonic water is
marvellously refreshing without the gin.
And you can get quite lit up if you set
your mind to it! It’s the quinine!” Men
drift away, murmuring politely into their
whiskies, to blondes who have already
had the gin.
It’s the explaining I can’t bear. The
terrible necessity to prove that you are
not being censorious. That you don’t dis-
approve of other people drinking. You
love to see them rushing round the room
being jolly to one another. You love to
be driven home by one when you are
stone cold sober and have been waiting
for him to finish trying to be sick in the
gutter so that you can get back and can
get up at 6 o'clock which is now just
3 hours away.
I hate explaining that alcohol doesn’t
agree with me. That if they insist on
secretly putting brandy into my ginger
ale, not only will I throw up all over
their carpet, but I will become very mean
and tell them what I really think of them,
as well.
It must be possible to make a nice
brown non-alcoholic drink that doesn’t
dissolve the enamel off your teeth,
doesn’t taste like medicinal syrup,
doesn’t blow you up like a Zeppelin, and
doesn’t cause you to blush to the roots
of your hair when you ask somebody to
get you one at a party.
In the meantime marijuana any-
body?
CLARISSA BLACK
" Wouldn't you know it! Womandriver”


BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Largest trading bank in Australia and New Zealand
HIGHLIGHTS FROM 1964/65 ANNUAL REPORT
Consolidated Balance Sheet
• Consolidated deposits, bills payable, etc. rose £7O million
to £l,OBB million.
• Consolidated loans, advances, etc. rose £53 million to
£464 million.
• Profit from all sources £4.19 million.
Trading Bank
• Deposits, bills payable, etc. rose by £31.8 million to
£758.9 million, the rise being wholly in interest-bearing
deposits.
• Loans and advances rose by £37.7 million to £376.8
million.
• The Wales held 24.3 per cent of the deposits of major
Australian trading banks and had outstanding 25.1 per cent
of their advances.
• Salaried staff 13,561.
• Total branches and agencies —• 1,224, a net increase of 31.
Savings Bank
• The Wales Savings Bank opened in New Zealand on Ist
October 1964.
• Consolidated deposits rose £39 million to £329 million.
• Record net increase of 231,000 active accounts in twelve
months: total exceeds 1,750,000.
• Loans outstanding for housing and other purposes rose
£l5 million to £B7 million.
• Total points of representation exceed 4,100.
Mechanization
• Bank’s computer commenced processing ledger accounts
of first Sydney metropolitan branches on 25th June 1965.
Investment Services
• Despite decline in share prices, Unit Trust sales were
£3 million.
• Superannuation Funds contributions for year £1.57
million.
• Funds managed by Investment Management Department
rose to £77 million. Additional investment in the year
£l2 million.
• Bank appointed to handle The Winston Churchill Memorial
Trust.
Premises
• 263 new structures being built or major alterations under-
taken during the year.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
and
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 30th SEPTEMBER 1965
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Notes, and Cash at Bankers £47,947,735
Loans to Authorized Dealers in Short
Term Money Market Australia .. 9,455,000
Money at Short Call London . . .. 8,500,000
Treasury Bills London .. 2,472,448
Australian Public Securities
(a) Commonwealth of Australia
(i) Treasury Notes 12,023,915
(ii) Other Securities 211,598,921
(b) Local and Semi-Governmental
Authorities 91,744,070
Other Public Securities New Zealand,
Fiji and London .. .. 13,970,866
Other Securities 297,432
Term Loan Fund Account with Reserve /
Bank of Australia 6,329,000
Statutory Reserve Deposit Account with
Reserve Bank of Australia 78,113,000
Statutory Deposit and Special Fund
. Account with Reserve Bank of New
Zealand 7,767,503
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks and
Balances with and due from other Banks 23,977,798
Bills Receivable and Remittances in
Transit and Sundry Debtors 138,223,348
652,421,036
Loans, Advances and Local Bills Dis-
counted 463,923,644
Shares Listed Companies 4,778,118
Unlisted Companies 345,815
Bank Premises and Sites 17,579,043
Accrued Interest and Suhdry Balances .. 5,233,445
£1,144,281,101
LIABILITIES
Issued and Paid-up Capital • £21,950,000
Reserve Funds 19,502,223
Final Dividend Proposed 1,097,500
Balance of Profit and Loss Accounts .. 2,564,276
Balances due to Other Banks 11,194,573
Deposits, Bills Payable and all other
Liabilities, including Provisions for In-
come Taxes and for Contingencies .. 1,087,972,529
£1,144,281,101
\oW
the
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
AUSTRALIA’S FIRST BANK
(the liability of the members is limited)
MALES
85.6501—A


I Had Never Even Heard of Dr K.
By A. J. DUNSTON
(Professor of Latin, University of Sydney)
I had never even heard of Dr Knopfel-
macher when I was appointed to
the Selection Committee over a year
ago to consider applicants for a vacant
Senior Lectureship in Philosophy in the
University of Sydney. In seme 12 years
as a Professor at Sydney, I have sat on
not a few Selection Committees inclu-
ding all those dealing with vacancies in
the Faculty of Arts between the years
1956-61, as a member ex officio as the
then Dean. It soon became clear to me
that this application was arousing a
most unusual interest. There were a
number of applicants and the name of
one of these was being mentioned con-
stantly in the clubs and bars and other
places where men meet and talk. Even
before the Committee had met for the
first time, before I had had a chance to
get the file and read the applications and
supporting documents, allegations had
come to my ears that one of the candi-
dates was a Dr Knopfelmacher, that he
was “an informer who made re-
ports on his colleagues to the
Security people”, “a paranoiac”,
“a man always causing trouble
among his colleagues’’, “not
systematically trained in political philo-
sophy”.
Never before had I heard such com-
ments in such intensity, for good or for
evil, about any candidate either before
his application had been considered or
afterwards. I am not very interested in
politics, nor an ardent adherent of any
political party or cause, but 1 did observe
that all this sort of talk seemed to be
originating from those whose political
views were more to the Left than to the
Right.
It was with such a background that
the Committee met and decided, with
one abstention, to recommend Dr K. for
appointment. I supported him then, as I
still do, because it seemed to me from
an impartial and non-specialist considera-
tion of all the documents that the balance
of academic testimony was in his favor.
And so the recommendation came in
due course to the Board. At that meeting
an amendment to the adoption motion
was carried and the matter deferred for
one month. It must be remarked that
the mover and seconder of this amend-
ment had both been participants in the
1964 Peace Congress, Dr K’s conduct at
which was to be mentioned in a subse-
quent debate. It is interesting that the
official minute records only two com-
ments. One was that Professor X stated
that Dr K. was a brilliant lecturer and
treated his subject objectively and would
no doubt make Political Philosophy an
exciting subject in Sydney. The other
was that Professor Y thought that the
Board should be aware of the manner in
which Dr K. conducted controversy
against certain of his colleagues in the
University of Melbourne and that he had
been responsible in no small way for
some of the ill-feeling said to exist be-
tween the University of Melbourne and
the Victorian Government 1 . The use of
the term “McCarthyite” (withdrawn in
the next debate in favor of “Goldwater-
ite” was not recorded, though it did
occur). At the request of the opponents
of Dr K. it was further agreed that the
now famous “Twentieth Century” article
(not one of the applicant’s academic
papers) should be circulated to all mem-
bers of the Board together with details of
the other applicants.
The proper course of action always
becomes clear after the event. By accept-
ing this amendment the Board was
The View from the Committee Room
obviously taking the first step towards
deciding this issue by itself, and in these
circumstances someone should have
asked that all the papers on the file be
circulated.
At the next Board meeting a motion
to adopt the recommendation of the
Selection Committee was defeated by
24 votes to 19 with a number of absten-
tions. This rejection has recently been
severely criticised, in particular by Pro-
fessor Sir John Eccles, as “an unprece-
dented violation of normal academic
procedures” and as “a dangerous acade-
mic precedent”. This is putting things too
strongly. It clearly lies within the Board's
legal competence to take such a decision.
Indeed, the situation could hardly have
been avoided. It is all very well to argue
now that a reference back was the proper
course of action, but how could this have
been achieved then ? By no means did all
who voted speak in the debate and no
one could have foretold the result of the
vote with any degree of accuracy. Even
had such a course of action been moved
the supporters of Dr K’s appointment
might well have refused to support it in
the hope that the subsequent vote might
go their way. But though the competence
1 This allegation is as extraordinary as the
reported statement of Professor F. May
(“Farrago”, Sept. 20), “Victoria is a
potentially fascist State”.
of the Board as a whole may not pro-
perly be questioned, the action of some
individual members in voting at all either
way is open to criticism.
The Board had virtually decided by
its previous decision to deal with the
matter by itself. It is not too much to say
that a man’s whole academic career was
clearly at stake, for a rejection would
be letting the academic world know that
he had been examined by the whole
Board and found wanting. Each member
should have made it his duty to read
all the published works of the candidate,
all the referees’ reports, and other testi-
mony, supporting or otherwise. A very
few had, I suspect, done this: some may
have abstained because they had not, but
one suspects that the majority of the 43
who voted had not examined the evi-
dence for themselves but had relied upon
opinions expressed by others in the
course of debate.
One will never be able to know with
certitude what was in the minds
of each individual who voted:
one can only try to deduce it
from the words that fell from
their lips. The scales of judgment
may with some individuals have been
tipped consciously or unconsciously by
the influence or prejudices or partialities
one way or the other. Complete objecti-
vity of judgment is something that few
people can claim to have on every occa-
sion. One thing must, however, be
strongly asserted: there was not the slight-
est evidence of any “vicious outburst of
anti-Semitism” as Mr K. M. Cairns,
MHR, is reported to have alleged there
could have been, though his remark may
have been given an emphasis and pro-
minence that he did not originally intend.
By the Board's action, the matter was
technically “dead”. There was nothing
further for the Selection Committee to
do and the Board itself had no obligation
to do other than it did, namely to report
its action in its Proceedings for the Senate
to note rather than in its Report for the
Senate’s further action or approval. It
can be argued therefore, that at this
stage the matter was no longer sub judice
and remained so until notice was given
later that 4 or 5 members of the Board
had exercised their legal right and re-
quested a Special Meeting to discuss
the unprecedented outburst of publicity
in the Press. During this publicity the
candidate alleged that he had been “re-
fused advancement in his profession
because he was a socialist, but also a
determined anti-Communist". On the
other side Professor F. May broke the


silence that he had observed during the
Board meetings, appointed himself a
spokesman for the Board, and in a series
of letters to the “Sydney Morning
Herald”, "The Australian” and “The
Canberra Times” alleged that Dr K. was
not academically competent: there was
only one publication of appropriate
weight in the candidate’s new field, and
as for his non-scholarly publications these
could be interpreted as “unethical, para-
noid, hyperbolic and windily meaning-
less” ("The Australian”, April 22) “on
the strength of his other writings jt is
hard to imagine him giving an objective
analysis of the works of Marx and
Engels” (ibid. April 15). Professor B. Y.
Mills took the extraordinary step of re-
ferring to the controversy in a graduation
address. Professor A. E. Alexander in a
letter published in a number of papers
and also circulated to all members of the
Board claimed that Dr K. was not acade-
mically qualified for Senior-Lecturer
status and that a statement made by
Dr K. in The Bulletin of September 8,
1962, showed that he did not conform
to the academic and ethical standards
which would be demanded of scientists.
The Special Meeting
week or so before the Special Meet-
*■ ing a full statement of their views,
together with a number of supporting
documents was drawn up by Professors
D. M. Armstrong and R. N. Spann and
circulated in the first instance to all mem-
bers of the Board. Had this valuable
document been in the hands of members
of the Board earlier, many more might
have cast their votes in the candidate’s
favor.
At the Special Meeting a general dis-
cussion of the case was ruled to be in
order. The Board thus had an unexpected
chance to refer the matter back had it
wished. It did not, and rejected a motion
to this effect by a large majority, it
having been pointed out that a reference
back would include a reconsideration of
the application of Dr K. and that a
defeat of the motion would mean that
the position would be re-advertised. The
Board adopted a statement which it
transmitted to Senate, which subsequently
announced through the Vice-Chancellor
that it had fully considered the matter
and was of the opinion that the proceed-
ings of the Selection Committee and
Board were fairly conducted in full
accordance with academic tradition, and
that it saw no reason to interfere with
the decision of the Board.
In the weeks that elapsed between this
pronouncement of the Senate and the
closing date of the re-advertisement (July
30) public comment was negligible. Two
occurrences, however, deserve notice.
That ardent attacker of Dr K’s non-
scholarly publications, Professor F. May,
published in a magazine called “Squire”
a so-called “Theatre-of-the-absurd One-
Act Play”, which contained clear and
offensive allusions to the Knopfelmacher
issue. What the motive was for this,
what audience he hoped to reach, what
indeed he was trying to say, is a veri-
table puzzlement. The tenor of the whole
thing, as a reviewer (“Partisan”, July-
Aug.) noted, was “gloating, sly, obliquely
baiting”: references to Dr K. were set in
a context of what can only be called
occasional near-obscenity. It had, how-
ever, one positive value: it showed to
what lengths one of Dr K’s opponents
was prepared to go.
Clearer in its purpose was a letter to
the editor published in the “Sydney
Morning Herald” of August 11, by Pro-
fessor Alexander. By this time it was
known that Dr K. had re-applied for the
position. The previous Friday he had
been invited to address a meeting at the
University of Sydney on “Academic
Freedom". Wisely he decided to talk on
“Communism” instead. Professor Alex-
ander's letter drew public attention to,
and criticised, a political opinion which
Dr K. was reported to have expressed.
As Peter Kelly and Professor Douglas
McCallum pointed out in subsequent
letters, it was regrettable that a public
attack should have been delivered on
Dr K. at a time when it was generally
known that he was again a candidate
for a vacant position in the University.
The Selection Commitfee for the re-
application was wisely chosen: with one
exception (due to a change in the mem-
bership ex officio) it was exactly the same
as before. Details of its deliberations
must remain confidential, but it is not
perhaps a breach of confidence to men-
tion that not only were the opinions of
referees additional to those nominated
by the candidate sought, but copies of
the candidate's published work sent to
them. As had been reported, the Commit-
tee defeated a motion to recommend
Dr K. by 5 votes to 3 with one absten-
tion. Once again the matter was techni-
cally “dead”, but, in view of the publicity
attached to the case, a report was made
to the Board by the chairman. The
dissenters made a statement alleging that
the Committee had in their view been
satisfied in the main that Dr K. was a
brilliant, penetrating and stimulating
lecturer who would be well able to
conduct courses in Political Philosophy,
and that in his academic lecturing his
presentation of material was fully up
to the standards of academic objectivity
observed in controversial disciplines: that
his publications, though not extensive,
were quite compatible with his appoint-
ment to a Senior Lectureship in Philo-
sophy. The statement concluded by say-
ing that in the opinion of the minority the
disagreement between the majority of the
Committee and those who took the minor,
ity view was. in the main, about the suit-
ability or otherwise of Dr K. on grounds
other than those connected with his aca-
demic work. The minority regretted some
of Dr K’s pronouncements in the course
of current controversies, but saw nothing
in them to bar him from holding an
academic appointment in the University
of Sydney.
At the time of the Board’s previous
decision, and afterwards, the opponents
of Dr K. were arguing strongly that he
was not formally qualified academically.
The deliberations of the second Selection
Committee would seem to have settled
this matter .in his favor. What then
caused some members of the Committee
to change their minds and withdraw
their support? It was probably not the
“Twentieth Century” article. Rather it
was the fact that the candidate had
chosen to make public comment in the
Press and on television on his failure to
secure appointment, and in the course of
controversy had made one or two in-
temperate, colorful and unfortunate re-
marks. To this charge of “conduct unbe-
coming only a "plea in mitigation”
could be valid. One may criticise, but in
fairness must also sympathise with the
vehemence of Dr Ks polemic: his family
was killed by the Nazis; after his active
war-service in the British Army he re-
turned to Czechoslovakia only to be
forced to flee after a year or so, before
the Communist take-over. He has had
what few people concerned with politics,
be they academics or politicians, have
had: active, first-hand experience and
suffering at the hands of totalitarian
regimes. His applications were attended
by personal attacks and insinuations and
allegations of a completely unprecedented
nature. And in these circumstances, I,
for one, was prepared if not to overlook
at least to understand and to some extent
condone his more violent reactions.
A man's career
We may now turn to the University
Senate’s recent pronouncements. Its
first means exactly what it said: the Senate
endorsed the decision of the Selection
Committee not to proceed with an ap-
pointment. The matter was not in itself
an item on the agenda paper: any assump-
tion that the Board on this occasion dis-
cussed or heard argument upon a report
of the Committee is unwarranted. Were
academic procedures duly followed? I
think they were. One or two slightly
undesirable features of the current pro-
cedures may have been brought to light:
these the Board may decide to discuss
in due course. In taking upon itself to
decide the fate of the first application the
Board was within its legal rights. But,
with a man’s career at stake, individual


members might have been more diligent
in ensuring that they had a really sub-
stantial basis of information against
which to assess for themselves the values
of allegations and counter-allegations.
Again, the Senate is quite right in
saying that the issue “was not dictated
by political considerations”. That is
very strong and decisive language: by no
means were political considerations the
single dominant feature of the opposi-
tion. But no one could possibly deny
that political considerations were present.
How can one explain the terms “Mc-
Carthyite” and “Goldwaterite” except as
terms of political criticism? Was it mere
coincidence that the initial opponents of
the application were connected with the
1964 Peace Congress? Either as organ-
isers or active participants who had
crossed swords with the candidate during
those meetings? It is not putting it too
strongly to suggest that the minds of at
least some people may have been pre-
conditioned by considerations such as
these. It is one thing to talk of “plots
and conspiracies”, though the regular
way in which, from Dr K’s writings,
extracts, all of which could be used to
his discredit and none to his credit,
from more out-of-the-way journals kept
finding their way into the hands of at
least one member of the Selection Com-
mittee and others clearly indicates that
at least someone was engaged in a pretty
thorough and comprehensive search.
What can, however, be fairly said is that
there was a solid core of opposition, a
number of individuals who, because of
their professed political beliefs or
attitudes to the problems which beset the
world of today, found a common cause
against a man who was self-revealed as
an opponent of most of the things in
which they believed. Even despite the
assurances of the Senate, there are some
who still believe that less than justice was
done, and that much that happened out-
side the formal deliberations of the
Committee and the Board was completely
unprecedented, in fact quite disgraceful.
Amongst the latter one may instance the
rumors that were circulated, the pre-
judice that was built up, even before
the first committee had met.
But the supreme governing body of
the University has made its pronounce-
ment, and members of the University
must accept and respect this even if they
do not find it altogether satisfactory.
One can also hope that such a situation
will never be allowed to recur. What-
ever the rights or wrongs, much damage
has been done to the reputation of the
University both at home and overseas.
Above all a man’s career has been
jeopardised: it is to be hoped that there
are still some, were they supporters or
opponents, to whose consciences this will
stand out as the most regrettable effect
of the whole affair.
LETTERS
No Puzzlement
SIR. The article “A Puzzlement”,
written by E. J. Donath (8., Dec. 11),
may be sound enough within narrow
limits in its criticism of wheat stabilisa-
tion but these limits are not. Frankly I
doubt whether wheat is really subsidised
at all. In fact, I believe that under a
free exchange rate the Australian pound
would not be worth more than 85 per
cent or 90 per cent at most of its present
fixed rate. If this is so, the price received
for wheat sold overseas would be as
great as or greater than the assessed cost
of production. The increase in wheat
acreage has probably been due more to
declining and fluctuating prices for wool
(how many wheatgrowers are there who
are not also woolgrowers?) than to any
exceptional profitability in growing wheat.
I wonder what the cost of production
of wheat would be if the farmer’s labor
in excess of eight hours a day during
harvesting and sowing seasons was valued
on the same basis as the wages of a
worker in secondary industry time
and a half on week days and double time
on Sundays.
Ian H. LEYS
Burbank (NSW).
The Times Are A’Changing
SIR.—As an ;xchange Australian student
under the American Field Service pro-
gramme, I have been faced many times
with the terrifying task of defining the
Australian character. We are scolded so
often for becoming so “Americanised”,
my first approach was to explain that
Australians are in so many ways similar
to Americans.
Having now seen The Lucky Country
from a respectable distance, I can feel for
the first time that often-expressed need
for a wide-spread cultural and political
bomb. I can sense what Charmian Clift
was getting at when she hinted at the
potential which lies dormant within the
folds of Australian mediocrity. I find a
new interest in the pages of The Bul-
letin, and less charm in the “mawkish”
journalism of “Time”.
If an overseas trip is the necessary
tonic, then it is to be hoped that such
programmes as the AFS exchange can be
encouraged. I would like to express my
gratitude, and I’m sure that of the other
seventy-eight Australians over here this
year, to the editor for helping to keep us
in contact with events at home, and also
an Australian point of view of inter-
national affairs the regular appearance
of The Bulletin in the mailbox is a
welcome sight indeed. Your forthright
articles give some hope that perhaps,,
after all, the times they are a’changing.
CLINTON SMITH
Wisconsin (USA).
Spain's Civil War
SIR.— Pace reviewer David Martin
(8., Nov. 20), the term “Civil War” as
applied to the Spanish conflict (1936-
39) is as sound as it is universal. It is
not “almost a misnomer” at all.
It is disturbing, too, to find historian
Hugh Thomas disrated as concentrating
on the “cloak and dagger aspect” of the
Civil War, “the Machiavellian”, and be-
ing partly, at least, among the “tenden-
tious, lopsided and half - informed”
accounts of that war. Written somewhat
from the Left (Thomas is a Labor
MP), the book is a fine effort, is pretty
impartial and gives a notable account of
the Brigades, Thomas is an historian in
it, not an “alleged” historian. In his 720
pages he gives us the war all right, and
he makes clear that the “noble purpose”
the recruiters of the International
Brigades had in view was the setting up
of a Communist dictatorship in Spain.
And what right has he to dub Franco’s
victory as “Fascism”? What happened in
1939-1945 showed that Franco was a
Nationalist, as he always said. When he
revolted in 1936, the Spanish Republic,
as Churchill asserted in the House of
Commons, had forfeited its title-deeds
of legality. It had allowed anarchy.
MARTIN HALEY
Brisbane (Qld ).
CHINESE INVASION
feuLletin
80 Years Ago: December 26, 1885
strength of China consists in this
capacity for tiring out an enemy. But
should that tremendous vis inertiae be
changed into vis vitae —as there is every
chance it will when the rulers of China
come to properly realise the force that
drilled myriads will give them there
will be a power to reckon with in the East
which may soon settle the conflicting
claims of England and Russia.
This may seem an extravagant asser-
tion, but when it is recollected that China
has a population of over four hu„dred
millions to draw from, it will not appear
so far-fetched. All that is required are
efficient weapons, drilling and good gen-
eralship, with the word to go, for a horde
more terrible than the Huns because
better disciplined and carrying deadlier
arms to sweep over Asia, even to the
borders of the Bosphorus. The time may
come when the Chinamen will pour into
Australia without waiting to ask the Cus-
tom-house people how much poll-tax they
have to pay. The generation that sees this
come to pass will understand the boast of
Attila that no grass grew where his
horse once trod.


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
THEATRE, 1965
Not “Virginia Woolf” Again!
By DENIS O’BRIEN
It becomes more and more difficult to
accentuate the positive and ration-
alise about the negative qualities of
theatre in Sydney. Based on immediate
recall (which is a reasonably fair, sub-
jective assessment of achievement) my
reaction is that the year on the stage has
been even less inspiring than it was in
1964, which itself was without much
spirit.
Probing deeper, as it is necessary to do
for a summary of this sort, I find that
1965 did provide several theatrical plea-
sures and a heartening amount of enter-
prise, but the fact that so little lodged
as a forceful memory provokes an over-
whelming feeling of disappointment.
The Old Tote Company remains Syd-
ney’s sole provider of high quality drama,
yet its revival, at the end of the year, of
the 1964 success “Who’s Afraid of Vir-
ginia Woolf?” is a significant illustration
of the paucity of fresh achievements dur-
ing 1965. In terms of production (a
sensitive re-staging by actor Alexander
Hay), performance and popularity (the
revival season was booked out only a few
days after opening), “Virginia Woolf”
almost qualifies again as the theatrical
event of the year.
To hail it as such would be to over-
look the only two other memorable
dramas of the year Rolf Hochhuth’s
massive documentary piece, “The Repre-
sentative,” and John Osborne’s virtual
soliloquy, “Inadmissible Evidence.”
Both were Old Tote productions and
from “Evidence” came the year’s best
male acting on the Sydney stage and the
most accomplished direction. Peter
O’Shaughnessy’s performance as the
broken-down solicitor Bill Maitland was
mesmeric; Robin Lovejoy’s direction of ,
the play was acutely sensitive to its mood.
I am also grateful to Mr O’Shaughnessy
for his inventive production and brilliant
performance of Gogol’s “Diary of a
Madman”, staged at the Independent
fcarly in 1965, and for his rich delivery
of most of lonesco’s flood of words in
“The Lesson”, an amusing one-act play
Which the Q Theatre Group presented as
One of its several worthwhile lunch-hour
productions.
The down-town commercial manage-
ments had a grim year. By June the scene
was so overcast with failures that bank-
ruptcy . loomed ahead of Phillip Produc-
tions and darkness looked like becoming
a routine state for the Tivoli.
The Phillip people plunged into the
year as the country’s most newly enter-
prising management but after losing disas-
trously on “Diplomatic Baggage”, “The
Knack” and “Difference of Opinion,”
and barely covering costs on the Sydney
season of “A Severed Head,” it ends 1965
in a numbed state behind the safety of
its successful revue, “A Cup of Tea, a
Bex and a Good Lie Down,” which,
among its many virtues, revealed John
McKellar to us as an extraordinarily
prolific writer.
The Tivoli, after promising a raft of
British musicals from the Bernard Delfont
organisation, charmed its box office only
with the inartistic “Windmill Revue” and
counted the rest of the year as a loss.
J. C. Williamson offered a vigorous
production of “Hello Dolly!” with
American Carole Cook as an unenchant-
ing Dolly, and then took cover behind
the Sutherland Grand Opera Season.
Nearly all its other presentations were
“by arrangement” with other manage-
ments.
The notable exceptions were “Beekman
Place”, a silly puff piece in which Miss
Googie Withers made her annual stylish
appearance before us, and “Chase Me
Comrade”, a routine, though expertly
played, farce which did so badly at the
box office that it should provide William-
son’s with the final proof that the “big
public” for this sort of nonsense is only
fondly imagined.
On the fringe, the Ensemble and the
Independent pursued interesting but
ultimately unsatisfying policies. Both
theatres chose bravely non-conforming
attractions; both delivered them in pro-
ductions sadly deficient in cohesive per-
formances.
At the Ensemble, the standard of act-
ing, for long an important part of
theatre’s appeal, fell badly. Only in the
bizarre two-handed double-bill “Cages”
(Brian Young and Patricia Jones) did
the acting reach the level Hayes Gordon
has encouraged us to expect.
The Independent’s best production of
the year was Arthur Miller’s autobiogra-
phical “After The Fall” which Peter
Summerton staged with imagination.
From the production came, in my opin-
ion, the year’s best performance by an
actress —Carmen Duncan as the tragic
Maggie.
Again it was a bad year for actresses.
Apart from Miss Duncan, there were only
Googie Withers’ mannered excellence in
“Beekman Place” and Patricia Connolly’s
lovable charm in “The Country Wife” at
the Old Tote worthy of special praise.
There are few other bright memories.
Reg Livermore (“The Knack” and “A
Cup of Tea, etc.”) continued to be the
most consistently dazzling young actor
on the stage, the 1965 graduating class
at the National Institute of Dramatic Art
appeared in an entrancing production (by
Joe McColum) of “The Plough and the
Stars”, and Betty Pounder illuminated
“Hello, Dolly!” with her brilliant re-
staging of the New York choreography.
And no new Australian plays came
within my view during the year. The
Independent seems to have taken over
the responsibility of encouraging Aus-
tralian playwrights by holding monthly
rehearsed readings of new works.
Financial
Limitations
fJ'His has been rather a strong year in
the Melbourne theatre. Looking
back on it one does not recall any of
those high moments of revelation or
excitement which electrify an audience,
but three or four productions remain in
the memory, and that’s not bad.
On the whole, the older playwrights
again fared best, but there is still a
terrible dearth of classics. Probably not
much more than 10,000 people, an
extremely low percentage of our theatre-
goers, managed to see a performance
of Sophocles, Shakespeare or Ibsen.
The argument is that the classics can-
not fill the big theatres, and even Shaw
is supposed to be box-office poison. But
money is the limiting factor also in
another sense. A leading producer
recently asked me which of the classics
or near-classics could, in my view, suc-
ceed here. I suggested “Cyrano de
Bergerac”, which has not been seen for
years. He laughed; the large cast would
make it financially impossible. I still
believe that the solution lies in founding
a permanent company supported jointly
by governmental and municipal authori-
ties and contributions from parents who
do not want high school students to
grow up without some acquaintance with
world drama.
To name a few highlights from the
last twelve months, there was Malcolm
Robertson's well-rounded presentation
of “An Enemy of the People”, with
David Mitchell a memorable Stockman,
the St Martin production of “Heartbreak
House”, a workmanlike “Oedipus Rex”
at Emerald Hill and Sartre’s “Crime
Passionel” which gave us, through the
brilliantly versatile Raymond Westwell,
an example of powerful acting. The
Union courageously offered us a season
of five new plays from England and
America, of which unfortunately only
the minority proved as successful as


overseas. But, being representative of
some of the main trends in the modern
theatre, and staged with finesse and
artistic conviction, we should be grate-
ful for the quintet. Albee’s “Tiny Alice”
was the most original and impressive.
Among work worth taking seriously
on its own merit four other plays should
be mentioned, also for the quality of
the cast: Anouilh’s “Poor Bitos”, under
the direction of an able newcomer from
England, Maxwell Jackson; Antrobus
and Milligan’s “The Bedsitting Room”,
which is something really new in the
field of satire; Sydney Michael’s “Dylan”,
and one more of the Emerald Hill
experiments “Brecht on Brecht”. This
is actually not a play but a selection of
Brechtiana.
A new Australian play, “Bandicoot on
a Burnt Ridge”,' was dogged by early
mishaps, but even without them would
not have been strong enough, while a
local musical, “Shut up and Deal”, will
not become a potential rival to “Hello,
Dolly” which is now enjoying a good
run at Her Majesty’s, where “A Funny
Thing Happened on the Way to the
Forum” also proved, if proof were need-
ed, that lavishly mounted spectaculars
can still be profitable.
As regards commercial importations,
my preference goes to “High Spirits” for
the gusto of its leading lady and to “A
Difference of Opinion” for all-round ex-
pertise, with a warm spot reserved for
Max Bygraves and Joy Nichols who, at
the Tivoli, demonstrated that in show
business sophistication has more than one
meaning. It is noteworthy that straight
or semi-straight “attractions” from Lon-
don or Broadway once more failed to do
well for their managements.
DAVID MARTIN
The Virgin Mary,
. Kirrilly Nolan
THE BUSINESS OF GOOD GOVERNMENT,
a modern Nativity play by John Arden.
Presented by the Q Group at Scots
Church, Sydney.
Herod, 'bn Grqy
Angel,
Nigel Lovell
Peter O'Shaughnessy,
who is ■
producing the play
A Shepherd,
Don Philps
One of the Wise Men,
Max Osbiston i
Joseph, Ben Gabriel


LAUNCESTON CHURCH
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
requires
SENSOR MATHEMATICS
AND FRENCH MASTERS
from the beginning of first or
second term, 1966.
Both men must be able to teach
to at least fourth year secondary
standard.
Salary scales are above State
department levels and housing is
available Full details may be
obtained from the Headmaster.
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. D, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
FILMS, 1965
Good, Bad or
Indifferent
T admire and envy the critics who can
A look back over the year’s films and
instantly recognise and identify a “trend”,
and in the hope of joining the club have
studied my little list carefully. “Mary
Poppins” “Zorba” “Lord Jim”
“The Knack” “Hercules, Sarhson and
Ulysses” “Sexy Girls, Sexy Nights”.
Maybe this adds up to a trend, but I’m
hanged if I can discern it. To me it just
looks like an awful lot of movies.
Of course there is one trend that any
fan is pleased to note; despite the crepe-
hanging prophesies, people are still going
to the movies. It would be hard to per-
suade the distributors of “Those Mag-
nificent Men In Their Flying Machines”,
“The Sound of Music”, “Mary Poppins”
or “My Fair Lady” that the film business
is dead or even sick. Apart from the
blockbusters, there have been -encourag-
ingly healthy runs from less obviously
box-office films “Zorba”, “The Ser-
vant”, “The Ipcress File”, “The Knack”.
No, I don’t think we can sound the in-
dustry’s death knell quite yet.
From the viewpoint of a confirmed
filmgoer, the year has included some very
fine films, a heartening number of in-
teresting or just plain entertaining ones,
and a number of detestable ones (some
of which, like “It’s A Mad, Mad, Mad,
Mad World” are doing very nicely, thank
you). And, of course, there were rep-
resentatives of the types that are always
with us —the “Carry On” series has now
with “Carry On, Cleo” invaded the his-
torical field; the big muscle boys (Steve
Reeves, Ed Fury, et al) continue to
subdue Roman armies and lions with
their bare hands; depressed young women
partially disrobe in cheapjack films like
“Orient By Night” and “London In The
Raw”. Evidently they fill a need, and
fortunately they’re so completely cut to
pattern that unless you’re an addict
there’s no need to go to see them.
Of the dozen or so of the year’s best,
my own personal favorite was probably
“Zorba The Greek”, Cacoyannis’ loving,
unsentimental hymn to life. There is an
odd similarity and difference in this and
another of the best films of this year,
Dino’ Risi’s “The Easy Life”.
England provided several interesting
films; though the desire to be original at
all costs sometimes runs riot, as in “The
Knack”, it’s neartening to see English
film makers striking out boldly. What
style and wit there was in Clive Donner’s
cool, brilliant comedy “Nothing But The
Best”, and in Sidney Furie’s spy thriller
“The Ipcress File”, a scintillating piece
of film-making in the anti-Bond manner.
(Not that I’ll hear a word against 007;
“Goldfinger” was undoubtedly one of the
year’s most ramshackle movies, but so
thoroughly diverting that its shoddiness
became part of its charm.) I shall long
remember “Seance On A Wet After-
noon” for its wonderful evocation of
atmosphere and its remarkable per-
formances; this goes too for “The Ser-
vant”, although director Joseph Losey
did lose control at the end which became
mildly absurd. Here, too, the acting was
impeccable, with Dirk Bogarde at last
given a role matching his talent and
James Fox making a most impressive
debut.
The Russian “Hamlet” was to me the
finest Shakespeare film to date, and with
its purely cinematic treatment a splendid
example of translation from one medium
to another. Ingmar Bergman was at his
bleak, impressive best in “The Silence”,
but appeared to less advantage in a
venture into comedy and color, “All
These Women”, which was nevertheless
visually breathtaking. Excellence of
script, acting and direction made “The
Best Man” an eminently satisfactory film.
Sidney Lumet directed “The Hill” in a
rather high-pitched but gripping manner,
but his “Fail-Safe”, an earnest, muddled
warning about The Bomb, was one of
the year’s worst. So, too, George Roy
Hill made “The World Of Henry Orient”
charming, funny and often sharp-witted,
but flopped completely with the almost
amateurish “Toys In The Attic”.
An embarrassment of riches makes it
difficult to choose the year’s worst,
though the pompous Burton-Taylor film,
“The Sandpiper”, makes a strong bid'
but “The Visit”, “Major Dundee” and
“In Harm’s Way” are definite competi.
tion. Edward Dmytryk was responsible
for two of the year’s dullest, most in.
flated movies, “The Carpetbaggers” and
“Where Love Has Gone”; still, he some,
what redeemed himself with an entertain-
ing thriller, “Mirage”.
But rather than end on this sour note,
it’s nicer to look back on the pleasures
in 1965’s films: Kurosawa’s poetic, fas-
cinating “Tokyo Olympiad”; John Fran-
kenheimer’s “The Train”, a film of un-
obtrusive excellence; bits of pleasant, un*‘
assuming entertainment like “The Moon-
spinners”, “Send Me No Flowers”, “John
Goldfarb, Please" Come Here” and “Von
Ryan’s Express” And to end the year
on a thoroughly skittish note, there’s the
Beatles’ new film “Help!” (to be reviewed
in a later issue).
BEVERLEY TIVEY
TELEVISION
Fact is Stronger
Than Fiction
ITbiE main shift in Australian television
A production, 1965, has been the
decline in attempts at home-grown drama'
and the emergence of stronger public
affairs and documentary features. We
may be following the world-wide pref-
erence for fact rather than fiction, but;,
I think a more convincing reason is that
in a small country the number of ima-,
ginative minds able to create television
drama must be few. And when such
writers as Noonan, Yeldham, Bowers,
Nettheim, Lindsay Hardy and Seymour
are in England, how many capable
dramatists can remain? How much TV
drama can be indigenous?
Fact is easier to film, and it is visible,
that England has plenty of capable tech-
nicians in that line. Fact does not offer
the same high rewards to technicians as
to creative writers, who can live well in
England on three or four one-hour
dramas a year, a number which would
keep them close to the breadline in Aus-
tralia. These are economic principles
which will starve Australian TV drama
for many years, unless one of the richer
sponsors will take a gamble in the
medium.
This would require the commissioning
of plays, and paying for them, used or
unused, so that younger writers can de-
velop in the only possible way, by writing
constantly. It is not reasonable to expect
a good creative mind to spend several
months writing and rewriting a play,
which may or may not be sold, for a
sum which would only represent four
weeks’ work in commerce, and without
benefit of holiday or sick pay.
Left without national drama, a yard- 1


New Issue
Now on Sale!
NEW GUINEA
and Australia, the Pacific and South-East Asia
4th issue contents include:
Papua's Off-shore Islands .... Jeremy Beckett
A Quite Scandalous Document Robert Langdon
Kot Bilong Mipela David Fenbury
Coffee in New Guinea Ric Shand
West Irian's Refugees Paul van der Veur
Fears on the Sepik Wegra Kenu
"New Guinea" subscriptions make ideal Xmas gifts for friends
20/- per annum (5/- per copy)
At your Bookstall, or from the distributing Agents:
THE SYDNEY & MELBOURNE PUBLISHING CO. PTY. LTD.
29 ALBERTA STREET, SYDNEY (Box 1813, G.P.0.)
Itick of national perceptiveness, television
jas offered us an increasing amount of
Ilk during this year, only sometimes
fith enough pictures to make the com-
mentary bearable, or ignorable. Local
iumor has been on display in the special-
sed Bramston Show, in “Here’s Dawn”,
nd very occasionally in Ray Taylor’s
unbit. Both the “quiz” and the, for want
if a better word, “games” shows have
leen without development or experiment.
Sports commentators speaking behind
|lm have become a shade more sopfaisti-
;ated in that they no longer tell us only
vhat we have just seen. The things child-
en might prefer to see on television re-
gained a mystery to producers. Bobby
limb’s “Sound of Music” easily retained
!|he annual Corn Pops award. And an-
jther seven television experts from over-
seas were asked what they thought of
Australian television, read the correct
{nswers from idiot-boards, and were
llowed to escape the country alive.
| Australian television production dur-
jing 1965 was probably as good as, even
better than, TV in any other country of
111 millions. Its weaknesses were not too
(pitiful, and its areas of strength, the
tactual programmes, have ended the year
•on an upsurge. However, with so little
[drama in production, and so little com-
edy, the medium has a duty to provide
a little of each somewhere, and it could
be in occasional “factual” programmes
which are not so deadly serious.
This would also require better writers.
Not the gentleman who seems to write
present commentaries with as much
knowledge of the use of words as a flock
of galahs in a gum tree. The language
should complement the film, not be a
noisy distraction. I have not yet heard a
good commentary accompany good visual
images. We have some novelists who
could do much better. As television is at
the end of 1965, the factual shows, pub-
lic affairs, social commentary, documen-
tary promise to increase in number and
use during 1966. And if I am allowed a
wish for the coming year, it would be
that some really capable writers are
hired to either write the commentaries or
jat least vet and, if necessary, rewrite
I them.
DALE MILLER.
THEATRE
Holiday Fare
jVou've Never Had It So Good. New
! Theatre. Sydney.
QJatire, contrary to popular opinion, is
t a serious business, although it must
Jbe funny as well. More often than not
( revue is puerile and insipid because its
[perpetrators believe that they must be
lighthearted and not take anything too
seriously. Nothing could be further from
the truth. The New Theatre is greatly
helped in putting on satirical revue by
having a definite standpoint from which
it can criticise the world. It does not
matter too much if you disagree with
the point of view expressed, provided
that the sketch is funny.
It must be admitted that, in this revue,
the straight political sketches are, on the
whole, the weaker ones. American policy
in Vietnam, nuclear weapons and Liberal
Party politicians produce pious but dull
sketches. Is it that the pro-Communist
Left feel too strongly about these issues
to be funny about them or is it that they
are content*with pious line-toeing, and
don’t feel strongly enough to really
think and say something fresh?
I incline to the second explanation. A
pleasant sketch by Pat Flower called
“Never the Twain” makes the point. An
Australian woman is breaking off her
engagement to a New Australian be-
cause she has decided they are incom-
patible. Is it racial prejudice, political
differences or social snobbery that
divides them? No, the issue on which
they are irreconcilable is fluoridation.
Because, pace the New Theatre, we
really never have had it so good, people
are not steamed up about big political
issues, but are more interested in small
things like traffic problems, poker-
machines, Santa Claus, or transistors. At
any rate these provided the best material.
Of the 38 sketches by 17 writers the most
and the best are contributed by Pat
Flower and Mona Brand, both of whom
are more interested in social observations
and comment than in political issues.
The New Theatre's characteristic zest
and vitality always shows well in com-
edy and John Armstrong’s excellent pro-
duction flies along at a good, fast pace.
Of the men, Lionel Haft and Alan
Hardy are a serviceable pair of com-
edians. Lionel Haft's wharfie and
Prince Charles are rivalled by Alan
Hardy's poker-machine addict and Gem-
ini astronauts. David Calcott is good as
the original prowler trying to keep up
the dignity of his calling in the face of
a lot of cheap imitators.
Of the women, Jenniffer Cullen is a
natural comic. When the tunefully
raucous stentorian voice emerges from
the slight figure with the dead-pan ex-
pression, laughter is compulsive, whether
she is wharfie’s wife, transistorised teen-
ager or bonnetted Victorian soprano.
Marie Armstrong does well as the house-
wife giving a description of “A Nice
Drive In The Country” illustrated with
colored slides. In this Humphriesian
odyssey by Pat Flower the family makes
Ashfield for lunch, which they eat be-
tween a bus and a truck on the Parra-
matta Road. Tessa Mallos gloats sadis-
tically as the cuddly Koala which is
given carte blanche to tear strips off
all the visiting VIPs.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG


The Promised Land
Sun and manna and a pillar of fire
I remember —sweet, hot, hard desert days,
And Moses sadly standing, dying, higher
Now than our dream. We crossed in a
haze,
Forgetting him, and all, joyfully plodding
On without the pillar. A cloud of smoke
Obscured the sun, and I was carrying
Rahab’s corpse, her virgin blood a yoke
To free me.
I’d only obeyed orders.
Over. We built, and hid the blood and
guilt
In days of work and war: we tried to love,
But found strange crops had sprung from
borders
Sown by thought on sandy scarlet silt,
Stifling pillar and yoke, and their release
of love.
RICHARD FRANTZ
BOOKS
Literature, ’65
By CHARLES HIGHAM
T began 1965 with a feeling—shared by
critics for many years but never
sharper than now that the novel, in
the Western white world at any rate, is
temporarily played out, exhausted as a
form of art, on the one hand, by the in-
numerable hacks who have learned to
exploit it for ready cash, and on the
other hand by the latest experimenters
in Germany and France Gisela Eisner
and Marguerite Duras are the most not-
able offenders who have pretentiously
disrupted the form and provided nothing
but disconnected musings in its place.
Artists have been increasingly con-
cerned of late with the theme of aliena-
tion: more often than not, they have
only themselves to blame ,for their con-
dition, trapped as they are in prisons of
self-pity and contempt for the feelings of
ordinary human beings. I tend nowadays
to prefer above anything else in the
novel a simple, workmanlike example of
carpentry, which I can at least feel has
been fashioned with loving care and
addressed with sympathy to a wide audi-
ence. Above that level, only Nabokov,
White, Montherlant and Katherine Anne
Porter among contemporary writers make
me feel compelled to read everything
they produce. And none has brought out
a new novel in 1965.
I have picked up half-a-dozen fashion-
able works of fiction this year and put
them down with despair, noting the
conglomeration of cliches, the endless
dull padding of the dialogue, the med-
iocre flatness or high-flown affectations
of the style. The truth is that television,
as well as destroying the middle-of-the
road fiction film of quality, has also
taken the teeth out of most fiction as well.
The novel’s purpose has been taken over:
only the best sellers, the Monsarrats,
Du Mauriers and Wests, survive, and the
scattered handful of geniuses who keep
the art going like caravaners in a desert.
Elsewhere, nothing is more quickly
forgotten than a new novel: its life is at
best a matter of months, its author forced
relentlessly into a book a year to keep
his reputation going. Soon, the pressure
shows; in the writing; it has that look of
strain which shows up in a too-rushed
pace, a proliferation of adjectives which
time and patience should have pruned.
The novelist becomes, fatally, ambitious:
for a probable audience of 2000-3000,
he is working too hard, with-
out that valuable indifference
which comes to a poet, con-
fronted as he is with an audi-
ence of, say, 200-300. The
novelist, hoping desperately
for a bigger sale which will
allow him to write novels
full-time, yet at the same
time determined to improve
himself as an artist, is, like
the film director, torn hope-
lessly between tw 7 o opposing
forces, and his talent, not
surprisingly, is apt to founder.
But if the novel is in dire
straits, poetry is not. After a
long period of “apocalyptic”
inflation and deadly Larkinesque de-
flation, it has achieved overseas an
astonishing new birth largely ignored
here, and reflected most vividly in the
best of all literary monthlies, “The
London Magazine’’.
In the United States, the “New York
limes” has thrown out its fuddy-duddy
policies of the past and is encouraging
fresh, free and verbally unrestricted
poetry, Howard Moss’s selections for
“The New Yorker” are invariably
superb, the revived richness in “The
Hudson”, “Yale” and “Kenyon” re-
views, in the small magazines like the
“Southern”, “North-West” and “Literary”
reviews, the range of experiment, of
explorations of verbal possibilities, of
rhythmical excitement and audacity, is
almost overpowering. Masterly poets like
James Dickey, Robert Pack, W. S. Mer-
win, Donald Hall, Anne Sexton and
Robert Lowell display a control of form,
an intensity of feeling and a wholly orig-
inal sensibility unmatched in the English-
speaking world. And this year a handful
of brilliant books has restored my faith
in poetry, lost in the drab ’fifties: James
Dickey’s “Buckdancer’s Choice”, Robert
Lowell’s “For the Union, Dead”, and
ROBERT LOWELL
Marianne Moore’s “The Arctic Ox” are
easily the best books in any field I have
read this year.
In the field of biography, George
Painter’s brilliant second volume of his
life of Proust is far and away the most
distinguished publication. There has been
a huge flood of Australiana, of which
biographies of Mannix and Deakin have
attracted the most attention. From
America, the Kennedy books arrive with
tiresome frequency, writer after writer
cashing in shamelessly on a legend that
somehow manages to survive them intact:
the vulgarity and ineptitude of most of
these books is beyond belief. Two had
books have appeared on the cinema:
Robin Wood’s ludicrous “Alfred Hitch-
cock” and Peter Cowie’s labored and
pedestrian “Orson Welles”. Reginald
Pound’s “The Lost Generation” explored
the literature of the First World War, as
did Bernard Bergonzi’s “Heroes’ Twi-
light”, not yet received for
review. Some admired Gore
Vidal’s “Julian”: I found it
stupefyingly dull and consti-
pated. Hall and Whannel’s
“The Popular Arts” was a
nauseatingly smug, snobbish
and “improving” piece of
middle-brow' cant on the pop-
cult area. Two major books
of criticism appeared here:
A. D. Hope’s “The Cave and
the Spring” and Judith
Wright’s “Preoccupations in
Australian Poetry”; I have
had to postpone reading them
until 1966.
Narrowing the focus to the
local scene, I began, in May of this year,
selecting poetry for The Bulletin: with
reluctance, I admit, because I felt that
after a long, rich period Australian poetry
w'as sharply in decline. Most of the work
I received at first confirmed this feeling:
endless ballads written in a faux-naif
style, hymns of praise to Winston
Churchill, verses about the drought, crop-
pests and the depredations of the resis-
tant rabbit; tiny, tinkling Georgian
lyrics and epics of 30-40 pages on splen-
dors of the Bondi physique, and its use-
fulness in surf mass rescues. The worst
aspect of most of the contributions was
that they were written in an idiom 40
or 50 years out of date, by people who
clearly thought that G. K. Chesterton
was a daring modern, and T. S. Eliot an
inscrutable member of the avant-garde.
And even some of the better-known
figures seemed to be writing in that
solemnly exact metric, leaden-paced
rhythm and self-consciously “beautiful”
imagery that went out of date in Eng-
land in 1920 or so, and in America rather
before that.
Poets who have struck out on their
own, finding their own way in isolation,


land driving a path that owes nothing to
janyone else are those I have most ad-
Imired. W. Hart-Smith seems to me a poet
jpf brilliantly individual gifts, experimental
jin technique, constantly renewing him-
self in a way reminiscent of the great
(.atin-American poets. Randolph Stow I
would also single out as a poet (in “Out-
rider”) of great verbal originality and
brilliance. I greatly admire Vivian
Smith’s delicate sensibility and balance,
jonly wishing that he would break out of
•strict metrics and rhymes into freer syl-
labic forms. Of poets newer to me I
would single out Lola Jackson and
Richard Flantz for special praise, and
would like to mention some young poets
in or just out of their teens who augur
well for a more inventive Australian
[future: Rhyll McMaster, an 18-year-old
Brisbane trainee teacher; Jennifer Clark-
son, a 20-year-old Victorian girl who may
possibly be a Marianne Moore or H.D.
in the making; Alex Abernethy, a young
Victorian; and Ross Donlon who, I be-
lieve, also has an exciting future.
In these writers I detect originality,
freshness, a dislike of routine forms,
and a passion for words that seem to me
preferable to the worthy solidity of so
much Australian poetry. Alongside some
of the best overseas poets (Robert Pack,
James K. Baxter, James Dickey, Earle
Birney and Douglas Livingstone are some
we have published) I shall place in The
Bulletin Australian poetry of excite-
ment, of enterprise, of originality. 1 be-
lieve that this international flavor, this
juxtaposition of local and overseas figures,
will prove most valuable in the long run.
The Flight from Innocence
By MAURICE SHADBOLT
|The Merry-go-Round in the Sea. Ran-
' dolph Stow. Macdonald. 31s. 6d.
A T thirty, as good a point as any for a
|, writer whose early success was re-
jmarkable, Randolph Stow has found
new voice and new strength. The pace
of his early production would have been
hard to maintain anyway: it is as well
to remember that at the startlingly early
age of twenty-three he had published his
first three novels, culminating with “To
the Islands”. At that point in Stow’s
career, the pressure must really have
been on; and most outside criticism did
him no service by seeing him as an
understudy in the saga of Patrick White.
It was just his misfortune to publish
“To the Islands” the year after White’s
“Voss”.
If one thing distinguishes the young
writer from his established seniors, it
is probably the fact of trying too hard.
Thus the vivid and youthful freshness of
“To the Islands” gave way to the turgid
“Tourmaline”: a muscle-bound book if
ever there was one. In prose as static
and listless as the desert town that was
its subject, “Tourmaline” appeared to
indicate a certain loss of faith as well
as a marking time. Perhaps a loss of
faith in his own often thrillingly pristine
vision of Australia; and a loss of faith
in the dramatic possibilities of the novel
form itself. What it all really amounts
to is the creative menopause known to
most writers; Stow, beginning earlier than
most, simply came to it earlier than
.most. (It is here the lyric poet, without
I the intelligence to sustain his youthful
intuition, most often dies; or here the
natural short-story writer, not so very
different, begins to gamble all upon the
novel.) From that point on Stow might
j easily have made the cruel slide back
. into the limbo so often reserved for
early success, while perhaps retaining
some modest reputation as a poet.
(Though I must say that his poetry never
seems to catch alight from particularity
in the way that, for example, “To the
Islands” did: the introspective small
change of his verse seldom suggests a
novelist who grabs at larger currency.)
So where to begin again, how to lose
those muscle-bound tensions? Stow has
found the answer, as so many writers
have, in childhood. (Pity the author who
begins with childhood, and thereafter
has nowhere to retreat.) Out of such
retreats have come almost all that is
memorable in the literature of child-
hood, sometimes by writers who never
knew quite what they were doing, or
why; they just knew it helped. It was
no accident that Mark Twain kept going
back to “Huckleberry Finn” despite him-
self—and the work that then competed
for his attention is now hardly worth re-
membering, except as an adjunct to his
one masterpiece.
Childhood, like innocence, is only
superficially a general condition. In
fact there is nothing more specific in
human experience. And no childhood
could be more specific in time and place
than that of Stow’s Rob Coram in “The
Merry-go-Round in the Sea”. The place
is Western Australia, and the time the
war. Nor could any child be more
specific. Young Rob is an Australian,
perhaps one of the first of a new breed.
At one point the novel becomes quite
explicit: “His father was a gentleman.
He, the boy, was not a gentleman. He
did not think that there would be any
more gentlemen after his father’s time.”
His father, then, is not an adequate
model; and not just because he doesn’t
really go to war. On the one hand, Rob
has as inheritance the suburban gentility
of the now landless Corams; on A#
other, the rather broody and listless ex-
pansiveness of the landed Maplesteads,
his mother’s line. In fantasy, out of the
death of the pioneer dream, the boy must
invent his own Australia: “bare, melan-
choly, littered with tragic bones . . .
Deep inside him he yearned towards
Australia: but he did not expect ever to
go there.” And, as the fantasy grows,
Australia becomes something else again,
a hot, tragic landscape where the bones
of poets may bleach: “Australia was a
good country for poets, he thought. It
was sad, like poets . . . Byron could have
come out with his great-great-grand-
father to Australia and died in the desert
instead.”
A portrait of the artist as a young
Australian? But the novel, rooted so
tenaciously in a complex human relation-
ship, is in fact a great deal more. There
seems only one possible model and hero
for Rob: his cousin, Rick Maplestead, a
student who goes off to war and is taken
prisoner by the Japanese. The reason
for the choice is obvious: Rick is the
only adult in Rob’s experience still with-
out definite shape— not grown up, but
“something other”; when he goes to war
he is one of Australia’s not-yet-made.
And in Rick’s prolonged absence Rob
may invest his cousin with any or all
of the qualities he desires (“Rick would
make a good poet, he thought. He’s just
about as good a rider as Adam Lindsay
Gordon. I bet he can swim as well as
Byron”).
His childish belief in his cousin refuses
the possibility of Rick’s death in Japanese
hands; Rick must survive, and does. But
Rick, on his return to Australia at the
war’s end, obviously cannot sustain the
role. True, without the war, he might
have been Australian, too. But for Rick
war “is a different country. When you
have belonged to that country you do
not really go back to the known nations.
You never lose your citizenship.”
At first Rick’s post-war restlessness
suits Rob wonderfully: Rick defines the
boy as “the only person of my age I’ve
got to play with”: his other relatives and
friends—including the girl he loves—
are simply not adequate, and become
less so. Even the one friend with whom
he survived the war eventually dis-
appoints him, with retreat to suburbia.
His relationship with the boy offers a
tenuous foothold in home territory, but
more and more he sees Australia as an
“Anglo-Celtic vacuum in the South Seas
... a good country to be a child in . . .
a childish country”. And in the .end, for
his own survival as a feeling man, Rick
chooses to make the break and flee into
the greater world, leaving Rob to grow
up alone. To Rob this means, of course,
betrayal. Betrayal of himself: betrayal
of Australia. It is impossible to love


Rick any more. He must accept his own
myths for what they are and accept him-
self, after all, as an individual.
No summary can do the gentle lyricism
of the story justice. The relationship
between Rob and Rick, boy and man, is
beautifully and tenderly conveyed. As
a period piece the novel is uncannily
precise: time and again Stow catches the
exact quality of wartime childhood —the
barbed wire on the beaches, the uni-
formed relatives, the hot summer skies
out of which the Japanese bombers never
quite came. This was what it was really
like for Stow’s generation and mine in
the South Pacific in the years 1941-45.
And after the sluggish prose of “Tour-
maline” it is surprising to find Stow so
relaxed and sparkling a storyteller. Most
of the novel is told in short narrative
spurts; and the mosaic thus created be-
comes rather more than a simple sum
of its parts.
But childhood? It has never seemed to
me accidental that Australians and New
Zealanders (like the Americans before
them) write so well and vividly about
childhood and adolescence. In nations
not-yet-made, it is a region of experience
which offers clues not only to what we
are but also what we may yet be.
Stow has not really much new to tell
us about childhood and adolescence as
a condition. “The Merry-go-Round in
the Sea” will probably become a small
classic for other reasons entirely. For
the writer has gone to childhood and dis-
covered a country. And in the process
so we now have every reason to hope
rediscovered himself as a novelist.
Muriel Spark’s Jerusalem
By NANCY KEESING
The Mandelbaum Gate. Muriel Spark.
Macmillan. 31s. 6d.
TTor my money, Muriel Spark has long
seemed one of the funniest, wicked-
est and cleverest novelists of our time.
She also uses a marvellously clear, un-
cluttered prose-style, which is more than
can be claimed for some of her peers. I
am nearly sure “The Mandelbaum Gate”
is her best book so far (the qualification
stands because I have not had time to
re-read “Memento Mori”).
In “The Mandelbaum Gate” Miss
Spark has invented a perfect vehicle for
many of her preoccupations. Its setting
allows her eye for bizarre off-beat back-
grounds to range naturally. The setting
is Jerusalem in 1961, the year of the
Eichmann trial, with excursions a little
further afield in Israel and Jordan.
Jerusalem divided into Israeli and Jor-
danian territory is both fact and symbol
of division in these pages: a place where
spies and counter-spies (professional and
amateur) rub shoulders with smugglers,
pilgrims, archaeologists, cynics and
innocent and not-so-innocent abroad.
The plot is exciting, involved and
hilariously loaded with coincidence.
Many readers have found Muriel Spark’s
insertions of Roman Catholic discussion
tedious in her earlier books, but in this
case her religious preoccupations are so
integral a part of both plot and character-
isation that criticism on this score can
scarcely hold; various aspects of Roman
Catholic behavior are mercilessly de-
bunked.
The central characters are Freddy
Hamilton,' senior member of the British
consulate in Israel, and Barbara Vaughan,
an attractive, fortyish woman of part-
Jewish, part-Protestant “country” parent-
age, who is a Roman Catholic convert.
Barbara has several reasons for visiting
Jerusalem. Her non-Catholic fiance is an
archaeologist working in Jordanian ter-
ritory; she wishes to make a pilgrimage
to various shrines in Israel and Jordan;
she w'ants to “discover herself”. Freddy,
on the other hand, is an amiable, un-
attached man of middle years W'ho is
given to composing elegant bread-and-
butter letters in old-French verse forms
and obviously, if unconsciously, wishes to
“lose himself”. He succeeds dramatically
and exaggeratedly by suffering an
amnesic episode which is central to the
plot.
Because of her part-Jewdsh blood,
Barbara Vaughan takes a great risk in
venturing into Jordanian Jerusalem.
What dangers she faces, and how her
friends circumvent these perils on her
behalf and contrive her safe escape, make
an exciting story enlivened with such I
typical Spark touches as an onset o[i-
scarlet fever to compound the complied
tions. But the great vitality of the book|
comes less from Barbara than from,
Freddy and from the Arab brother
sister, Abdul and Suzi Ramdez, from the
merchant, Alexandros and from Bar.
bara’s closest friend (and bitterest enemy)
—the ordinary seeming and really very!
surprising Miss Rickward. tji
Miss Spark moves adroitly from the J
cloak-and-dagger world of Arab plotting'
and scheming to the irrational intoler. s
ance of Jerusalem’s ultra-orthodox 1
quarter; from the touchiness of border (
guards and national clashes to the
bohemian, jazz-filled cellars where young '
Israeli and Jordanian cynics and idealist) j 1
choose, clandestinely, to meet. Miss' J
Spark depicts a world where stone foun- '
dations from Crusader times enclose!
houses and hiding places, where ancient (
symbols, scratched by a shoe on im-|
memorial dust, convey their meaning!
still, and where very little, apparently, i$ |
exactly what it seems.
Muriel Spark most compellingly per-1
suades me that present-day Jerusalem is!
probably exactly like this. Certainly this
novel conveys far more feeling of reality/
than do certain glossy publications of!
official Israeli institutions which come
my W'ay. But 1 cannot help remember-
ing my disillusionment when a very
cultivated ex-citizen of Alexandria gently
explained that Laurence Durrell had in-
vented nearly all of those marvellous
festivals, processions and fetes in the|
“Alexandria Quartet”. None of them ever;
existed in reality. Useless then to specu-'
late too much on authenticity of this
book; better by far to be grateful for its
irony and objectivity and for the glimpse
it affords behind the stereotyped fagade.
The Grand Tour
Somewhere in Europe she would find it
out
Uncover the great snake that home had
hid
With shame, anxiety and table talk.
Here, love was all consent but there
Experience was the very breath of air,
She felt; so she could wait,
Evade the arms from dance halls, walking
home,
Agree with family on their point of view,
Be tolerant with the class of 40 kids
Who, bit by saved bit, helped to pave her
way
Towards the climate of reality.
But when, excited on the Eiffel Tower
With Gallic vistas naked at her feet,
Fingers explored too far beneath the
breeze, *
She lost her head and knocked the fellow
flat
With a provincial uppercut: and when,
Pressed on that Roman bus, a hand
Waited palm upwards on the seat she took,
She screamed so loudly that the towertops
shook;
The bus ground to a stop upon her blush.
Kensington seemed more cosy: more at
ease,
She melted in those arms that sought
control
Of all her openings, and nearly let
What happens happen, till the tablecloth
And quiet clock ticking with her breath
and pulse
Suddenly came alive like news from home:
She struggled free, and sat and cried
alone.
Then it was all sight-seeing.
The time fled.
She came back as she’d gone, and married
Fred.
LOUIS JOHNSON


MY UNCLE TOM
A SHORT STORY
By M. G. VINCENT
U 1 ncle Tom became a nominal
member of our very large family
when he married my mother’s
sister, Maud; but as we met him, one
by one, he took a special place amongst
our favorite relatives.
The proof that his power to enchant
was infinite was brought home by my
imother when she returned from the far-
away city to our northern plateau. Not
one of us expected her to approve of
Oncle Tom, because in her eyes he had
sinned beyond forgiveness: he had been
married before. According to mother,
not even death of a spouse entitled any
one to a second bite at the cherry: ex-
cluded from our social circle were all
sinners who married twice, and all men
who expected to be offered that horror
of horrors whisky.
Naturally the first question my father
asked her was: “What did you think of
Maudie’s Monster? And how are your
sisters? And their bottoms? Bigger than
ever, I suppose.” He said this with great
relish because he was a tease and my
mother was a prude.
We were staggered when she answer-
ed in a strangely apologetic voice, “Well,
if you must know, I like him very much.
Very much indeed! In fact I think
Maudie is a very lucky woman. Of
course,” she added quickly, “he’s a very
lucky man.”
“We all know that,” conceded father.
“Particularly if he enjoys pinching fat
bottoms. That’s the first thing I must
find out when I go down to the Press
Conference.”
Now, in those days, there was a very
marked social division between the pro-
fessions and the trades, and as there
was more than a bit of the snob in my
father I expected his acceptance of Uncle
Tom to be limited by reservations, so
when he arrived home from the confer-
ence and announced: “If the railway had
more men like your Uncle Tom they
wouldn’t be in the pitiful mess they are
i today,” it was plain to all that here
jwias very powerful magic indeed! This
[declaration was made by father so many
times, it became a family chant which
was raised whenever that unfortunate de-
partment was mentioned; and so, after
three years of it, we greeted the news
°f an impending visit with all the tre-
mendous excitement usually accorded a
celebrity.
About half an hour before the ar-
rival of the service car, which plied be-
tween our mountain top and the rail-
head, thirty miles away in the river val-
ley, my father called us together and
made a statement. “Not one word
not half a word about politics while your
Uncle Tom is here.”
We could not believe our ears! A whole
week without politics, and an election
just round the corner! We looked as
though we had been forbidden to
breathe.
“Why?” I asked. “That is none of
your business, Madam,” said my father.
“However, I’ll tell you to make sure you
keep quiet. Your Uncle Tom votes
Labor. He votes for Jack Lang.” If he
had said that Uncle Tom was a freak
with two heads we could not have been
more shocked. “And what are you go-
ing to do about it?” I demanded. “Sure-
ly you’re going to try and talk him
around?”
“Certainly not.” Then came the pro-
nouncement which really silenced us:
“Your Uncle Tom has a perfect right to
vote Labor if he wants to.”
Never, before or after, did such words
come to our ears. In all our years in our
home, Uncle Tom was the one and only
person who was given the freedom to do
what he liked at the polls and still be
treated as a gentleman and an equal. We
went out to greet our visitors with our
mouths open!
E did not look at
our beloved Auntie Maud, our brand
new cousin, or the fabulous Gus O’Neill,
who it was said could drive a car up the
perilous mountain road with two wheels
overhanging the cutting for the full ten
miles; we stood in a row and stared at
Uncle Tom. I don’t know what the
others had expected; but I know I had
envisaged a majestic and distinguished
giant. What I saw was a short, squarish,
all brown, beautifully polished man with
a lively, friendly face, who looked like
the finest quality Doulton Toby jug come
to life. What my sister, Phyl, saw was a
different person, because when Aunt
Maud said, embracing us, “Say hullo to
your Uncle Tom,” Phyl said, “I am going
to call him ‘The Duke’.” She did this all
his life, and none of us ever saw occa-
sion to doubt that her estimate of his
gentility was correct.
How can I describe that essence of
Uncle Tom which was charm! His
character can be delineated by a chron-
icle of deed and utterance; but the
charm cannot be imprisoned in a sen-
tence any more than dust motes gilded
by the sun can be caught and enclosed
in a box. What made strangers turn
and smile at him as he stood motionless
and silent beside them? How did he in-
fluence his companions to banish pre-
judice, and yet to retain a prejudice of
his own without being questioned? This
prejudice concerned dogs. All dogs, ac-
cording to Uncle Tom, were potential
hosts of hydatids, and therefore dogs
were not tolerated.
Fortunately at the time of this visit
we did not own a dog, so day and night
there was peace. Even Phyl and Jean
called a truce, and for a whole week
they did not draw the imaginary line
down the centre of their double bed be-
fore retiring.
Apart from the peace, there were other
presents brought by Uncle Tom. For my
brother, he had made from household
tins a scale model of a goods train. It
was painted a shining black with a green
trim, and in the tender was coal. When
a string was jerked, a whistle blew.
To the remainder of the family he
presented a weather vane, which he in-
stalled on top of a post. For many years
we could look from our kitchen window
and watch a stalwart little tin-man turn-
ing his wheel, happily in the southerlies,
leisurely in the northerlies, and franti-
cally in the westerlies. The westerlies
sometimes distressed us, and at night we
would cover our heads with the blank-
ets, because the wind’s howling about
the house would remind us of the lonely
little man going hell for leather in the
dark, bleak gale. First thing in the
morning we would hurry to the win-
dow to make sure he had not been torn
from his task.


The third gift was the recipe of a
casserole. When it was first mentioned,
and Uncle Tom offered to cook one for
dinner, we thought it was some sort of
a bird, and were rather horrified. My
mother obviously knew what it was; but
she demurred timidly, saying that Reg
insisted on baked meat or fowl, grilled
fillet steak or shortloin chops, steak and
onions, or steak and kidney pie. “Then
it is time he had a change, Gert. You
and Polly (that is what he called our
aunt) just sit down for the rest of the
morning and I’ll take over.” From two
tea-towels he made an apron and a
chef’s cap; then he set to work.
B eing very in-
terested in eating, I still remember the
savory delight of that casserole; but not
being at all interested in cooking I
haven’t a clue what the ingredients were.
I must tell you, however, that at one
stage our dinner was in jeopardy. The
chef was used to a gas oven, and thinking
that our fire box should be stoked he kept
its craw positively crammed with brush
box —a fiercely burning timber. When
he opened the oven to inspect he found
that the dish had to be rescued immedi-
ately, so he grabbed the oven cloth and
tugged. Out shot the dish, spilling its
contents on to the linoleum.
In most homes this would not have
caused the blink of an eye; but ours
was just about the fussiest home imagin-
able, and we children got all set to
cry. “Oh, Gert!” pleaded Aunt, her eyes
enormously beseeching. “Oh, Mummy!”
we all whispered.
The Toby Jug, still decked out in
his chefs regalia, said nothing. Certainly
he looked sorrowful; but he also looked
quite ready to scrape up his masterpiece
and throw it out if the command w'ere
given.
“What on earth is wrong with you
all?” chirruped my mother. “The floor
was washed only an. hour ago. We’ll
scrape it up. Just let the fire die down
first, Tom, then pop the casserole back
for another ten minutes and if there are
any germs they’ll be baked to death.
And not a word to your father.”
Dinner finished, my small brother
asked: “Was it the germs that made it so
nice?” We all held our breath until
Uncle Tom, quite unperturbed, said:
“Yes. The secret is to sprinkle them on
at exactly the right moment.”
When the holiday ended, the families
parted with promises that it would not
be long before we saw each other again:
but it was two years before we joined
forces again, and it was when I was left
in Sydney to attend high school. During
the summer I stayed with my grand-
parents and the aunts with the big bot-
toms and hearts to match; and during
the remainder of the year I became part
of Uncle Tom’s household.
As I look back, so many pictures
blossom that all the background im-
mediately becomes a Rembrandt in
abstract. The rich browns and ochres,
reds and tans suffuse the melting shapes
of people once more busy at unfinished
tasks. Here, in a corner, are Uncle
Tom’s strong, stubby brown fingers
adding lustre to his already gleaming
brown shoes; here is his black lunch tin
with the brass handle, unpiloted seem-
ingly, setting out for the goods yard
at Darling Harbor; here is a corner of
his backyard shed, bright with rows and
rows of neatly stacked paints and
varnishes, and the glistening brushes,
clean and soft, tucked into polished
loops of leather studded with silver tacks.
In many places there is a blurred expres-
sion, not a face: the tender caress of
Aunt Maud’s lingering gaze in farewell
or welcome, wavering somewhere be-
tween his questing brown arm and
roguish lips and eyes There are small
portions of the modest brick house in
the streeling vapor of modest brick
houses with their tiLJ front verandahs
and leadlight bay windows in the rather
smoky working man’s suburb. Looking
at it all, I sit in the house again, and
listen.
Then at last, very clearly and in detail,
there is superimposed on all of this and
other things too numerous to mention,
the immaculate dining table laden with
the always fragrant evening meal. This
is the focal point: not because we were
all together and it w 7 as a happy time of
comradeship and good food, but because
it was then that Uncle Tom told his
stories. We heard about the men and
the engines, the accidents and the ad-
ventures at Darling Harbor’s goods yard;
the people he met on his way to and
from work; his memories of the years
he had driven express trains. Then, just
as it was nearly time to clear the table,
he would say in an off-hand fashion:
“Oh. by the way, Polly, I ran into my
cobber at Orchard’s Corner this morn-
ing (or afternoon, or night, as the case
might be) and he told me . . .”
At this stage my
Aunt never failed to interrupt: “Excuse
me, Tommo! Merf! Time for study.
Son, go and clean your teeth.”
It soon became obvious to me that
not long after my small cousin and I
left the room the sounds of mirth in-
creased tremendously, so I began 10
scheme. I tried all sorts of tactics, but
Aunt Maud was too wily for me: so
finally one night when Uncle ran into
his cobber at Orchard’s Corner, I did
not wait for Aunt’s command, but said
straight out: “I am going to stay. I waut
to hear about Uncle Tom’s cobber. And
I want to meet him, too.”
Aunt Maud looked hurt and horrified.
“You’ve been eavesdropping! Oh,
Merf!” I was indignant. “If I was eaves-
dropping,” I pointed out, “there wouldn’t
be any need to ask to stay.”
My step-cousin, who was grown up,
and, incidentally, very lovely, supported
me by saying quickly: “That’s right,
Mater! And, Merf, he really hasn’t a
cobber at Orchard’s Corner. It’s just the
way his stories start.”
Uncle Tom said, “Well, Polly, I really
don’t think Gert would mind if she
heard this.” A very sweet and loving
smile almost disposed the reproachful
apprehension. “I hope not, Tommo. You
knovv what Gert is like.”
I n brief this was the
yarn. A new and young member of a
very exclusive London club was trying
to be sociable and break down the rather
stiff formality of the small group he was
in, when a most pompous gentleman
arrived. The young man immediately
offered the newcomer a cigar, which the
other declined, adding, “Only tried a
cigar once in my life. Didn't like it.
Haven’t tried one again.” A little later
tl}e young man asked if he would care
for a whisky and soda, and again he re-
fused, remarking, “Only tried it once.
Never again.” Presently the group start-
ed breaking up, and the young man in-
vited the elder to a game of billiards.
“Can’t bear the game,” was the reply.
“Only tried it once. Never again.” Just
then a young man joined them. The
elderly man introduced him. “My son,”
he added. The new member regarded
the son for a moment and then said
drily, “Your only child, I presume.”
Merry laughter broke out. I did not
join in, and eventually Uncle Tom
sensed my disappointment and bending
over the table said to me kindly, “You’ll
think it is funny when you get older.
Well, I certainly hope you think it is
funny.” It was as though he were mak-
ing a wish for my benefit.
Like the man in Uncle Tom’s story
I did not ask to try his jokes again; but
one night, just before the summer vaca-
tion, I was almost shanghaied into listen-
ing. We had reached the stage W'here
Uncle Tom ran into his imaginary cob-
ber at Orchard’s Corner, and without
being told I stood up and prepared to
depart. “No, sit down, Merf. You'll like
this. This is a real story,” said Uncle
Tom.
“It’s silly if I can’t understand it,” I
said, making it obvious that I was still
stewing over the other story. He in-
sisted, and, as it seemed that he was
seeking to make amends, I sat down
again.
This story concerned a poor wretch


who was given a message written in
French by a dying comrade during a
battle towards the end of the 1914-18
war. He had just solemnly promised that
he would carry out his comrade’s in-
structions when the dying man tried to
speak again, but found the effort too
much for him, and died.
The rest of the story dealt with the
endeavors of the unfortunate friend to
have the message translated. He was
certainly a beggar for punishment! Hav-
ing failed to translate it with the aid of
a French dictionary, he tried it on every-
one who could speak French, and the
result was always the same. In spite of
promises made beforehand, soldiers, of-
ficers, stretcher-bearers, padres, medical
orderlies, peasants, and, after the end
of the war, several friends had no sooner
finished reading than they regarded him
with horror, turned on their heels and
would never speak to him again. It was
a very long, very sad tale.
Finally, when the suspense was just
about killing me, the story came to an
end: “And there he stood,” intoned
Uncle Tom with great solemnity, “on
Orchard’s Corner. He said to this friend,
‘Now you’ve heard the whole story,
you’ve known me for years, and you
promise faithfully you‘ll tell what it
means, and you won’t despise me and
walk away.’ His friend made a solemn
oath. This time he was safe. This man’s
word would be inviolate. So he took
the note from his watch, and handed it
over. Just as the man began to unfold
the paper a gust of wind snatched it,
and before either of them could move,
it was swept out of sight.”
For days after the telling I brooded
morosely. In vain did my aunt ask me
to be sensible. All I would say was that
all stories should have an ending not
just a blank. Eventually, Uncle Tom,
bewildered and unhappy about my mis-
ery, apologised, saying that if he had had
the slightest idea of the effect it would
have on me he would never, never have
told me. I said: “One day I’ll find out
what the first story means, but I’ll never
know what was in the note. If I didn’t
love you so much, I’d hate you.”
ery dejected he
went into the kitchen, and I could hear
him saying, “You know, Polly, I’ve told
that yarn dozens of times, and no one
has ever been upset by it. I thought she’d
see the funny side of it.”
I heard Aunt Maud kiss him. “Don’t
worry, Tommo,” she said soothingly.
“You know how clever Merf is at
maths. She’s probably going to be an
accountant, and you know what they’re
like! Two and two always have to make
four. She’ll get over it.”
I certainly got over my childish an-
noyance; but every now and again that
story would pop up into my conscious-
ness, and immediately the uneasy specu-
lation followed. Even ten years later
when I looked down at a frail, dying
Uncle Tom, the ghost of a twinkle in
his fine eyes and the ghost of a smile on
those tolerant, upcurving lips, the story
wraith prickled my mind.
Phyl’s little dog, Dizzy, yapped out-
side the wire-netted door, and for an
instant the humor left his face. “She
can’t get in,” I assured him, thinking
how strange it was that this victim of
a rare and incurable disease should still
be a prey for his only prejudice dogs
who might harbor hydatids.
T o divert him I
asked: “Do you remember how mad I
was about that note written in French?
The one that had the indecency to blow
away?”
“I was very upset about upsetting you,
Merf,” he said. “I’m glad you’ve got
over it and can see the funny side.”
I did not tell him that what I thought
was funny was the act I put on, and that
I still did not think the story was funny
at all. He licked his dry, grey lips, and
added faintly, “Sometime you’re passing
Orchard’s Corner you might see that
cobber of mine,” he winked. “Keep an
eye out for him. He’s as tall as I’m
short, as thin as I’m stocky, and as
white as I’m brown.” (He should have
said “was”, I thought sadly.) “And he’s
not an ordinary fellow like me he’s a
gentleman. If . . .”
Aunt Maud came in then and said he
was tired and I must go; so I bent and
kissed him. For the last time, it was,
because I never saw him again.
After that I always meant to go to
Orchard’s Corner, more or less as a
mark of regard for Uncle Tom’s mem-
ory; but you know what it’s like: there
isn’t enough time to do the things we
should do, let alone the things we’d like
to do. So it was that eight or nine years
after his death a very strange thing hap-
pened.
I was seeking a maker of therapeutic
equipment for speech therapy. As usual
I was in a colossal hurry, and was look-
ing at only the numbers on the buildings
at the top end of George Street. All of
a sudden an unseen barrier halted me in
mid-stride. Bewildered, I looked on the
footpath and all around me. Not seeing
anything unusual I prepared to get on
my way; but found I was held there. I
looked at the corner shop on my left
and saw a name which meant nothing
to me; but as my eyes ranged in per-
plexity along the windows, there, on a
high shelf, something was looking
straight at me: a Toby jug! My foot-
steps to the window were unimpeded,
and for a long time I forgot everything
but Uncle Tom. There he was, as vital
as life, full of humor and tenderness, 1
friendliness and conviviality. I decided
to go in and buy him.
I told an attendant what I wanted,'
and I did not ask the price. I intended
to have Uncle Tom, whatever the costJ
“That jug is not for sale,” said the
young man. “But we have others.” 1
could not believe my ears. “Oh no!” 1
cried. “I want that one. Very much. II
he’s not for sale why is he in the win-
dow?” (Not “it” but “he”, you notice.)
“It was there when we took over
Orchards, and I believe the understand-;
ing was that it was to stay there. It is
a sort of mascot or something.”
“It is most terribly important,” I per-
sisted, now in deadly earnest. “May I
see the manager?”
The gentleman who
came across the floor towards me from
the office was tall and thin and very pale.
His hair, eyebrows, and neat, clipped
moustache were snow white. He bowed
slightly. He certainly had a distinguished
appearance and manner. With intense
excitement I wondered if Uncle Tom’s
cobber had been real, after all; or was
this man someone he had known only
by sight.
“You wanted to buy the Toby jug in
the window?” he said. “I am sorry, but
he” (my heart bounded!) “is not for
sale under any circumstances. He has
been there for many years now in mem-
ory of a most delightful and unusual
friend of mine. I’m sure all the regular
passers-by would also miss him very
much if he were to be taken away.” A
quizzical gleam came into his eyes. “I
have made arrangements to ensure that
he keeps his honored position after I
have gone, so you see you really cannot
have him. Although, of course, you are
free to look at him as often as you
wish!” he added.
“You must have admired this friend
of yours very much,” I probed, at the
same time wondering just how much 1
should say.
“We met nearly every day for more
years than I can tally, and we became
firm friends. Yet this was the only place
we saw each other, so I did not realise
what a rare person he was until one
wild winter’s morning I irretrievably lost
something of great value to him.” He
sighed. “Not one word or look of re-
proach did I ever hear or see. In fact
all he ever said was that it made a good
story.”
“What on earth was it?” I asked
breathlessly, and I could hear the answer
before he spoke the words.
“It was a note,” he said, “written in
French, which he wanted translated. 1
was unfolding it when the wind snatched
it from me, and before we could move
it had disappeared.”


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Sanity on H. G. Palmers
Trading Future
TI/|R C. H. R. JACKSON, Receiver for the debenture-holders in H. G. Palmer
(Consolidated), has made a plea on behalf of all those people who are likely
to lose money in the recent debacle. He wants the group, with its 140-odd stores
and depots in four States and in Canberra, to continue trading so as to preserve
the values of the assets of the group.
It is a reasonable request at this stage.
If everyone takes a kick at Palmers, it
will force further losses. It is no good for
the morale of the 3700 employees or the
33,000 people who have put money into
the business.
At the moment, it looks as if share-
holders’ funds (including preference
capital) are gone. The unsecured note-
holders also could lose a proportion of
their money. But Mr Jackson’s assessment
of the situation, after only about seven
weeks in receivership, holds out some
hope for debenture-holders.
Naturally it is too early to make any
confident statements one way or the
other, yet there is no denying Mr Jack-
son’s request that the business should be
maintained as a going concern. A shut-
down would mean (apart from obvious
stock losses) a collection programme to
get back the remaining £22.2 million
from debtors, spread over about 500,000
accounts.
Hence Mr Jackson’s stated intention
to oppose the application by certain
creditors to wind up the company.
He was in the hot seat at the Press
conference on December 13 when he
tried to answer all the curly questions,
because he is not representing unsecured
creditors, note-holders or shareholders —
only debenture-holders. He was deter-
mined to make the point that H. G.
Palmer’s is not going to close up over-
night or even close up at all if his ideas
can be put into operation, and prove
successful.
He believes that, as a major and inde-
pendent selling organisation, Palmer's
can contribute more than a little towards
getting some sense back into the ap-
pliance retailing industry.
Few will disagree that Palmer's rush
for sales on no deposit contributed to the
Tat-race in the appliance business. The
elimination of the company now, how-
ever. and the forced sale of stocks, would
do a lot of harm to appliance retailers at
the moment.
The company is continuing to make
losses, because its interest bill is £2l
million a year. Mr Jackson claims that
the losses are not as large as that. There-
fore, if interest is suspended and the
company is permitted to trade profitably,
it should be able to make a better con-
tribution to group creditors.
Mr Jackson says it is one thing to get
a winding-up order and another thing to
get the most out of assets. Even if a
winding-up order were made, it is the
Receiver's job to get the best price for
the assets of the group. The average
person is then inclined to say “I won’t
deal with Palmer's. It’s gone broke. They
won’t service the appliances”.
This would make things too difficult.
That’s why the Receiver will oppose the
winding-up, the application for which is
to be heard on February 23.
What does Mr Jackson hope to do in
rehabilitating the group? First, he has
reorganised the administrative side.
Where previously everything was chan-
nelled through Sydney, he has arranged
for independent administration in each
State. He has instituted more stringent
credit screening and has cut out no-
deposit sales. He is insisting on a mini-
mum deposit of £5, which suggests that
there will be no terms sales below £5O.
After that, you can get credit if you have
a satisfactory rating.
The Receiver plans to strengthen the
credit staff and to put the accounts on
computers.
Mr Jackson doesn’t blame Palmer’s
entirely for the apparent lack of sanity
in the appliance industry. The industry
as a whole was beset with gimmick sell-
ing, he says. While everyone talks about
getting back to sanity in the granting of
credit and in the advertising gimmicks,
nobody has done much about it. They
have all continued their merry way.
Mr Jackson's punch-line was: “I am
hoping the situation that has happened
in Palmer’s will provide further evidence
to the trade that it cannot go on indefin-
itely with tha't type of trading. This can
only lead to further troubles.”
No one gave him an argument against
that.
“Damn it all, woman! If a couple of hundred 6½ per cent convertible notes
in United Consolidated doesn't express the true spirit of Christmas, I
don't know what does."


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
From a Tepid Christmas
Into the New Year
Business prospects for 1966
TfIHE commercial significance of Christmas has grown with the years, at the expense,
A we fear, of its true one. The seasonal burst of buying in the shops lines the
pockets of retailers and drains those of breadwinners. Its tempo is also a pointer
to the economy’s current temperature.
The temperature has been dropping
in the last few months, So, understand-
ably, Christmas shopping this year has
been something less than feverish,
although still, of course, hectic.
The reduction of temperature in the
economy has been accurately registered
in the gauges of the Australian Indus-
tries Development Association. Its end-
of-year report says what most business-
men feel, but don’t like to admit, before
settling into their summer siestas
“that a distinct break is developing in
the buoyant economic trends of the last
two years.”
AIDA is worried that its pre-Budget
view on the economic prospects for
1965-66 is proving, in its opinion, to be
right that the key problem would
not necessarily be pressure on resources.
It sees resources are becoming spare
and the need for the slack to be taken
up.
We may say in passing that we don't
quite follow this claim of hindsight, be-
cause in its July report, AIDA, like most
of us at that time, saw a danger at least
of external resources becoming scarcer.
It argued then that the Budget must
make full allowance for “the certain de-
cline in export earnings due to prevail-
ing drought in major pastoral and wheat
areas and uncertainty of capital inflow.”
(Its main concern about internal re-
sources was that import competition was
stopping local manufacturers making the
most of them.)
As a matter of fact neither exports nor
capital inflow have conformed to AIDA’s
fears so far. Capital inflow can be in-
ferred (from the visible trade figures
taken in conjunction with the steadier
trend in overseas reserves) to have been
higher in the first five months of the fiscal
year than in the same period last year.
Exports have run even more strongly
against gloomy predictions. For the five
months to the end of November they
were £31.3 million higher than in the
same five months of the previous year
(that is, £556.9 million compared with
£535.6 million). In November itself, at
£121.3 million, exports were the highest
for any month since January last year.
As for the immediate outlook, like
most of us AIDA doesn't appear to be
all that alarmed at the prospects, be-
cause it seems pretty confident that the
authorities can heal the break. Running
true to form, it suggests that, apart from
measures such as diverting more defence
orders to home industry and liberalising
credit, and housing finance, “apolicy of
adequate protection for Australian indus-
try should be fostered and tariff-making
decisions speeded up, as many Austra-
lian industries are keenly feeling import
competition”. It never fails to strike a
blow for the “hot-house” approach,
though on this occasion it stops short of
advocating import restrictions (in July
it was talking about “excessive and un-
necessary imports rising to unprecedent-
ed levels”).
If Government action along the lines
it suggests doesn’t repair the break in the
economic chain, AIDA would look for
the implementation of “some of the
policies which the Government has
under consideration, but has deferred for
various reasons, to stimulate activity”. I
must say that, desirable though they may
be, the two examples it gives of these
wouldn't, in my book, do much to revolu-
tionise the state of economic activity.
One is to grant a 200 per cent tax allow-
ance for money spent on research and
development in industry. The other is
“to collect and mobilise financial r#
sources of Australian investors to finance
from local funds the massive develop-
ments of vast new natural resources
recently discovered”.
On the other hand the effectiveness ol
action to top up effective demand and
increase the flow of orders to industry
(AIDA is very disturbed at the un-
toward build-up of stocks in industry)
would certainly be assisted if the high
level of fixed investment in the economy
could be continued in 1966. AIDA sees
signs of a slackening in fixed investment,
particularly in manufacturing industry
where the easing was greater than in non-
manufacturing.
AIDA’s observation on fixed invest-
ment is probably gained from its close
contacts with manufacturing industry. It
is not borne out by the latest figures for
new capital expenditure by industry
which are for the September quarter.
These show that, compared with the
same quarter last year, new fixed invest-
ment in manufacturing rose from £85.7
million to £lO4 million and in non-
manufacturing from £73.4 million to
£109.7 million, making an overall in-
crease from £159.1 million to £213.7
million.
However, arguing from AIDA’s ob-
servation, it is clear that, despite the pre-
dictable buoyancy of fixed investment
in minerals and probably in some other
non-manufacturing industry, an easing in
the manufacturing sector could pose one
of the biggest problems for the authori-
ties in 1966. Of course, if, in fact, there
is to be a slow-down in that sector as
one might expect after two or more years
of very high fixed investment there, a
solution could be looked for, at least
partly, in the reflation of effective
demand itself, since this would revive
the flow of orders and thus improve in-
dustrial investment expectations. On the
other hand, fixed investment booms have
a habit of wearing themselves out.
Geelong Church of England Grammar School
Corio, Victoria
A Church of England boarding and day school for boys.
The School at Corio takes boys from Form I to Form VI, except
that boys in Form IV go for one year to Timbertop, near Mansfield,
in Victoria.
Preparatory Schools, Glamorgan in Toorak and Bostock House
at Highton, Geelong, take boarders and day boys from Kindergarten
to Grade VI.
There are limited vacancies in certain age groups in both
Primary and Secondary sections for 1966 and following years.
For further information apply to the Headmaster.
T. R. GARNETT,
M.A. (Cantab.) M.A.C.E.


Invest in
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
CO
IXI
ui
fia
UI
1
2
(SECOND SERIES)
7% ....... 4 YEARS
6£% 3 YEARS
6£% 2 YEARS
•
51% ..... 12 MONTHS
FOR 5 YEARS
Prospectus and application form available from:
• ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF THE A.N.Z. BANK
• ALL BRANCHES OF I.A.C.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER S CO.
Members of the Stock Exchange, Melbourne
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Campaign Against Blue Tongue
Veterinary services the best insurance
Tt would be comforting to think that
our armed forces might be as quick
off the mark, in the event of an invasion,
as the animal health authorities in
Queensland in meeting the blue tongue
threat. No half measures here.
More than 700 cattle slaughtered in
two days, a sealing-off of the Mount
Crosby district, and energetic chemical
spraying with help from the Army a
commendable effort.
The tissue and other parts from
slaughtered cattle have been sent to
South Africa for analysis. This is just a
little puzzling. One would have thought
that blue tongue could be detected here,
but apparently not.
The general public would be excused
for thinking that blue tongue had actually
broken out in Queensland. Presumably
the samples will be tested for other
possible diseases foot-and-mouth, for
instance. Canada, where the semen came
from, also has foot-and-mouth.
The zeal of the authorities was neces-
sary. Farmers must learn not to smuggle
in ampoules of semen from overseas
countries. Semen, properly certified, can
be obtained legally, although breeders
say the restrictions make it a long and
difficult process.
One suspects that this is not the first
time semen has been smuggled in. There
is one school of thought which believes
that the advantages of importing new
blood for beef and dairy cattle outweigh
the risks of bringing in exotic diseases.
The diseases will come, one way or
another, regardless of quarantine regu-
lations.
Another school believes the diseases
can be kept out if the restrictions are
imposed even more forcibly.
The best insurance, in the long run,
would be veterinary services capable of
dealing with any outbreak. But the un-
fortunate fact of life here is that the
farming community does not support
sufficient veterinary practitioners. If it
were not for the cats and dogs in the
suburbs, many graduates would find it
difficult to make a living.
The action of the fellow who brought
the semen in cannot be excused. Yet it
can be understood why he tried.
Australian dairy cows, as producers,
lag sadly behind Canadian, American and
European cows. This may be due to
methods, feeding, and climate.
It is not entirely clear whether the se-
men imported was of a beef breed or a
dairy breed. One suggestion is that it was
Charolais the French beef breed now
in Canada and the US and if so this
would be understandable.
There are no Charolais in Australia,
officially anyway. The breed has earned
a great reputation for crossing with
dairy breeds. The resulting calves are
excellent vealers.
Charolais were unknown in the UK
about ten years ago, when the breed
suddenly attracted world-wide attention.
Interestingly enough, semen was
smuggled from France to the UK.
Charolais-cross calves were being bred
months before official permits were issued
for the importation of bulls and semen
from France. UK breeders of the tra-
ditional British breeds waged a strong
campaign to keep them out, but the cam-
paign collapsed when it became obvious
that the ban was being circumvented.
Now if semen has been smuggled
once into Queensland, is it so unlikely
that it has been smuggled into other parts
of Australia where it remains undetected?
This particular case should discourage
anyone from trying it in the future,
although one wonders.
The quarantine question is not quite
as simple as it might appear. A strong
section of commercial breeders in Aus-
tralia assert that the difficulty in obtain-
ing certified disease-free semen from
overseas is largely the result of traditional
stud-breeder opposition to the new
breeds. Traditional stud breeders assert
that this is nonsense: that strict quaran-


tine regulations are imperative to the
national economy.
Nearly a year ago the South Austra-
lian Department of Agriculture announ-
ced that it intended importing certified
Charolais semen from the UK in an
effort to improve vealer production. Little
has been heard lately of the project and
it would be interesting to know how
things are progressing.
Until the results of the South African
tests are available it is impossible for
anyone to say whether the semen
smuggled into Queensland was really
dangerous or not. At the risk of being
proved wrong, it would be pertinent to
point out that Canada has very good
veterinary services and any idea that
blue tongue is rampant there is quite
false.
It is only just that owners of slaugh-
tered cattle should be fully compensated.
But establishing true value may not be
easy either. Amongst the cattle slaugh-
tered in the Mount Crosby area were
some herds of new-breed tropical beef
and general purpose cattle.
No matter what the compensation, the
owners of these herds may well be able
to claim that they can never get full com-
pensation because of the long building-up
programme associated with the develop-
ment of these new breeds.
AGRISEARCH
Wheat Out of
Debrett
Victorian Department of Agri-
culture’s senior geneticist, Mr P. H.
Debrett, has produced a new superior
variety of wheat. It will suit especially
the Wimmera and Western Districts.
Application has been made to the Regis-
trar of Cereal Varieties for approval to
name the new wheat, which is currently
identified as PW76R. As soon as the
expected approval is granted, seed will
be released to growers from the Longere-
nong Agricultural College. The formali-
ties will probably be fulfilled in time to
allow farmers to sow the new variety for
next year’s crop just 25 years since
Mr Debrett made the first cross.
The breeding programme involved
multiple crossing. Pindar, Insignia, Pin-
nacle, and the famous Canadian variety,
Thatcher, comprise the parents. The
crossbred finally selected resembles Pin-
nacle most closely, but matures a few
days earlier and outyields this erstwhile
popular variety by almost three bushels
an acre. The actual average superiority
determined from some fifty tests in the
Wimmera over the six seasons 1959-64
was an impressive 2.8 bushels.
Moreover, comprehensive baking tests
show that thb new selection is at least
equal to Pinnacle in quality although its
protein content is slightly lower. It is also
highly resistant to flag smut and to the
main strains of rust in Australia. Some
of the newer races of rust can attack it,
however. Nevertheless, it is probable that
within the next few years PW76R will
become the main wheat variety in Vic-
toria. Like its famous forebear, Pinnacle,
it will probably also be planted elsewhere
in the southern wheatbelt. In Victoria
alone, a cereal agronomist has estimated
that Mr Debrett’s new variety will even-
tually return nearly £1 million a year to
growers. This calculation is based on the
assumption that a farmer’s gross profit on
a bushel of wheat is twelve shillings.
Room for Improvement
best ryegrass pastures in Britain
A are reckoned to produce one pound
gain in the liveweight of cattle for every
ten pounds dryweight of the pasture they
consume. Somewhere between 30 and 40
pounds of our new tropical pastures are
needed to grow the same amount of beef.
In southern Australia, the pastures are
about half as good as Britain’s best, i.e.,
some 20 pounds are needed to make a
pound of liveweight. Clearly, there is
plenty of scope here still for improve-
ment. We need to breed more nutritive
grasses and legumes for both our temper-
ate and tropical pastures, and we must
learn more about pasture management
for greater production.
If these are to be made we will
need more and better agricultural re-
search. Yet the Australian Institute of
Agricultural Science estimates that the
gap is widening between the number of
agricultural science jobs needing to be
done and the number of young scientists
graduating into them from our universi-
ties. The gap is already quite large
the demand exceeding the supply by at
least two to one.
Meanwhile a survey of the earnings of
professional people has disclosed that
agricultural scientists are relatively poorly
paid. In monetary reward they apparent-
ly rank thirteenth, behind doctors, den-
tists, lawyers, physicists, veterinarians,
engineers, optometrists, architects,
pharmacists, chemists, psychologists, and
accountants, in that order. The only
university graduates worse off are sur-
veyors, teachers, and social workers. The
smaller salary probably dissuades today’s
hard-headed young materialists from en-
rolling in agricultural faculties. Besides,
in these days of quota restrictions in the
various university schools, it could be
that the relatively poor students go to
agriculture after being denied admittance
to the other schools whose doors open to
a more lucrative life.
COMPANY MEETING
Beach Petroleum No Liability
Extracts from the Chairman's address to Shareholders at the Fourth Annual Meeting of the
Company, held on Monday, 6th Pecember, 1965.
Proposed Legislation for Offshore Areas in Australia.
The Company has studied the system of Federal and State legislation proposed in regard to
offshore areas in Australia, and is concerned at the unduly onerous provisions in regard to granting
of production licences after discovery. The cost of offshore exploration and drilling is very high, and
the compulsion to hand back 5/9ths of a selected area to Government after discovery (in addition
to payment of Government Royalties) together with the proposed introduction of flexible royalties
will be further obstacles for Australian independent exploration companies to overcome.
The Australian investing public is already apathetic in supporting the search for oil in Australia,
and your Directors consider that incentives and further Government support for Australian-owned
companies is an urgent necessity.
Matters not mentioned in the Annual Report.
Since the publication of the Annual Report, the New Zealand Government has granted to
Tasman Petroleum Ltd. a large offshore area. We hold 50% of the capital of Tasman Petroleum Ltd.
and with the acquisition of the new area, tenements held in New Zealand by that company have
increased from 1184 square miles to 5820 square miles. This also means that we now hold interests
in tenements in Australia and New Zealand whose areas total 74,470 square miles, more than a
100% increase on 1964 figures. , .... , ,
Good progress has been made by Australian Aquitaine Petroleum Pty. Ltd. in the drilling ot the
Point Moody Well in Western Australia, and today the well is drilling ahead at a depth of 6306 feet.
Our consultants are of the opinion that the section revealed to date has been most promising.
A number of encouraging hydrocarbon showings have been encountered in the well, and a decision
to test these will be made at the completion of drilling.
Finance.
At 30th June, 1965 net funds available amounted to £272,815 and it is not anticipated that any
call will be made on the 4/- paid shares held by the public during 1966.
Farmouts.
Your Directors are pleased with the farmout arrangements for the Simpson Desert with Amerada
Petroleum Corporation of Australia Limited and the Fitzroy-Canning Basin areas in Western Australia
with Australian Aquitaine Petroleum Pty. Ltd. These companies are carrying out active exploration
programmes on a substantial scale and they have already spent about £| million in the areas.
Future Exploration Activity.
You would have noted in the Directors' Report that drilling targets have been located in most
of the Company's areas, and it is proposed to arrange for drilling programmes to be proceeded
with as soon as possible.
Shareholders can look forward with interest to the planned activities for next year.
E. W. PALMER
CHAIRMAN
Circulated to Stock Exchange of Adelaide, and associated Stock Exchanges.


GENERAL
MARKETING MANAGER
for a national distributor and manufacturer
of consumer products. Total shareholders’
funds about £lsm. Responsible for admini-
stration and co-ordination of marketing
throughout Australia, for long-term strategy
and continual review of the product mix
and for stimulating the sales effort to achieve
increases in sales and profits. Location:
Melbourne. Interstate and overseas travel.
Starting salary will be negotiated in a range
to £7,500 p.a. Car provided. Expense allow-
ance. Superannuation and personal accident
protection.
Candidates must have an outstanding record
of marketing management at top level which
clearly shows the ability to co-ordinate and
direct a large national marketing organisa-
tion in a competitive consumer products
industry. Age: late 30’s to 50.
Please send brief information, quoting reference
BUL/928, to Mr. 11. L. Hay in Melbourne or Mr. E.
L. Haddock in Sydney.
MANAGEMENT SELECTION AUSTRALIA
414 Collins Street, Melbourne
68 Pitt Street, Sydney
No information is disclosed to clients until candi-
dates have given permission after personal discussion
MSA.IIIO.aUI.
J. & J. NORTH
Established 1867
Members of The Sydney
Stock Exchange Limited
J. F. G. North, D. A. North
M. J. Hobbs, I. A. North
J. H. Valder
D. W. Guest
33 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
57 Hunter Street, Newcastle
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Down Far from the Peak
Yet South Australian Brewing fully priced
VTow that ten o’clock closing is about
- to be adopted in Victoria, it looks
as though South Australia will be the
only State of Australia that will prevent
the hotels opening in the evening. How-
ever, one can only assume that, if brewery
profits are in the main dependent on the
quantity of beer sold, the brewers should
oppose late opening.
The chairman of the South Australian
Brewing Co. Ltd referred as follows to
the findings of Mr Commissioner Phillips
when addressing the annual general
meeting on June 22 last: “He also reached
the conclusion that neither increases in
the hours of trading . . . nor increases
in the number of retail outlets for the
sale of alcoholic liquor would result in an
appreciable increase in public consump-
tion.” In a State where there is virtually
no competition, it is to be wondered
whether the building of another eleven
hotels at a cost of over £1 million will
pay except in the very long term.
It would seem almost certain that the
longer opening hours could only increase
the hotel managers’ costs and this would,
in broad terms, decrease the amount of
profit made from the running of the
hotels’ unless the volume of beer sold
increased to such an extent that the
amount of profit remained unchanged.
South Australian Brewing Company
has been fortunate in the continuity of
management since it became a public
company in March 1888. Mr Samuel J.
Jacobs was a director from the beginning
until 1936; then, in 1948, Sir Roland
Jacobs was offered the position of man-
aging director. He held this position until
1961 and was chairman until this year.
He has noW retired from the position of
chairman but remains on the board. It
seems that Sir Roland took on the very
necessary task of modernising the com-
pany’s operations from the time that he
became managing director. Over the
period of his tenure of that office, the
breweries were completely rebuilt, old
equipment was scrapped and new equip-
ment installed, new production methods
and brewing techniques were adopted,
and new hotels were built and old hotels
modernised.
It is fairly clear that a vast change has
taken place in the activities of the com-
pany since 1948. It is perhaps rather
unfortunate that I cannot give more his-
torical information on the developments
that have taken place over the years.
For what it is worth the net profit of the
company as shown in the Sydney Stock
Exchange Statistical Service has increased
from £88,824 in 1948 to £618,914 in
1964/5. Over this same period the paid
ordinary capital of the company has in-
creased from about £722,000 to over
£4,827,000. The dividend rate was the
same in 1947/8 as it was in 1964/5, but
the earning rate on the basis of published
figures has risen from 12.3 p.c. to 12.8
p.c. Evidently this sort of increase in
the earning rate is not sufficient to justify
the high prices which have been paid
for the shares over the last five years at
least and particularly in the last two
y^ars.
We must then look to the capital issues
that have been made to shareholders over
this expansion period to obtain some
idea of the benefits that have been re-
ceived by them. From 1948 to 1955
the company made three rights issues to
raise funds. All three were made at par
and would have produced over £1 million.
Regrettably, I do not have price details
going back to these issues, so I am un-
able to work out the “bonus content” of
them. However, as the first was on a
one-for-two basis, the second on a one-
for-three basis and the third a one-for-
four, it must be assumed that the bonus
content was quite substantial. (The
“bonus content” is the percentage increase
that would occur in a holding if at the
time of a new rights issue sufficient
rights were sold to take up the balance
available to the stockholder.)
Since 1954/5, three more issues to


Bourbon doesn’t
taste like ftye,
Scotch or Irish.
Neither does
Bond 7:
it has a great
Australian
character
all of its own
BOMB 7
■t/unw U-tywttiiJ
WHISKY
ONE OF THE WORLD’S 5 GREAT WHISKIES
R/5976.
shareholders have been made and as two
of these consisted of three-for-five bonus
issues, the shareholders who started with
five hundred shares at the end of the
1954/5 year (which ended on February
28, 1955) would have had one thousand
two hundred and eighty shares by Feb-
ruary 28, 1965. This means that the
bonus content of these issues was 156
p.c. What is more, the dividend income
from this constant investment has in-
creased by a like amount. This suggests
that dividends per share have been in-
creasing over a ten-year period at the
average annual compound rate of about
91 p.c.
Since the close of the 1964/5 year,
the company has made a one-for-five
issue at par and the “bonus content” of
this issue was about 14i p.c. This issue
will raise the total ordinary capital to
£5,692,996. Even if the new expenditure
on hotels did not produce any more
profit, the earnings in 1964/5 would still
be sufficient to cover the increased divi-
dend commitment at the 10 p.c. rate at
least 1.35 times.
Currently, the ordinary shares are sell-
ing at 15s. 6d. to show a dividend yield
of 3.2 p.c. from the 10 p.c. dividend, but
until some idea can be obtained of the
likely profitability of the new investment,
one can only suggest that the earnings
yield is 4.3 p.c. Earnings yields do not
appear to have been of major importance
to investors in the shares of brewery
companies in the past, although there
does seem to have been some relationship
between price and earnings in the case of
South Australian Brewing Company’s
shares as the following table indicates:
Year 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
[lndices 1961 100]
Market price 100 111 179 164
Earnings per share 100 100 128 182 183
Dividends per share 100 106 121 121 121
During 1964, the mid-point between
the high and low prices was 21s. 4d.; at
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (£'000)
Year to February 28 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 847 837 995 855 1054
Current liabilities 1298 1554 1669 1659 2366
Working capital (451 (717) (674) (804) (1312)
Land, buildings 5851 6286 6571 7447 7868
Plant etc. 1285 1346 1178 1097 1046
Investments, etc. 393 193 403 1014 1466
Total capital 7529 /825 8152 9558 10380
Represented by:
Negative working
capital 451 717 674 804 1312
Deposits 130 292 285
Long term provisions 25 _25 25 1046 1232
Ordinary capital 4704 4704 4827 4827 4827
Reserves 2349 2379 2496 2589 2724
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES (£'000)
Depreciation n.a. n.a. n.a. 349 346
Tax provided n.a. n.a. n.a. 609 645
Earnings 409 411 535 762 769
Ordinary dividends 388 412 483 483 483
Surplus 21 (1) 52 279 286
Earning rate p.c. 8.7 8.7 11.1 15.8 15.9
Dividend rate p.c. 8.25 8.75 10.0 10.0 iO.O
Dividend yield p.c. (a) 3.6 3.2 3.0 2.4 2.7
High price Ob) 13/3 14/9 19/- 23/9 21/9
Low price (b) 9/9 12/10 13/10 18/11 15/-
(a) Based on the average of the high and law
prices for the year.
(b) Calendar year.
this price the dividend yield would have
been only 2.4 p.c. Even if the company
had made another three-for-five bonus
issue and maintained the 10 p.c. dividend
rate, the dividend yield would only have
been 3.8 p.c. Those who were banking on
another such issue must surely have noted
the dividend rate was reduced after the
previous ones.
If those buying the shares at these
high prices had been thinking of the
future return from their investment in the
form of increasing dividends, they could
perhaps have made a calculation based on
the rate of growth in dividend income
in the past ten years being continued for
the next ten. So far as I can see, this
would only have given an effective divi-
dend yield of just under 7 p.c.
One is then tempted to think that,
although the shares in South Australian
Brewing Company seem to be down
about 22 p.c. from this year’s peak, they
are still fully priced.


INVITES YOU
TO JOIN HER ON
PM
ANDREWS
CHRISTMAS DAY
WALT TDlSlsiey
CHRISTMAS
SHOW
o
CO
CD
Join the thousands of families who’ll be tuning
in for the Walt Disney Spectacular, on
Christmas Day. Lovely Julie Andrews will
be there, introducing everybody’s favourite
Disney characters in scenes from some of the
master’s best-loved films . . . Mary Poppins
. . . Lady and the Tramp . . . Peter Pan . . .
The Monkey’s Uncle . . . and many more.
Make a date to laugh along with Julie.
to you by the Bank of N.S.W.


GENERAL CREDITS
USVIIIED “
I Debenture Stock"*
(,Second Series)
OP TO
7-i
2
L 5-10 YEARS J
Applications can only proceed on the form enclosed with
the Prospectus which may be obtained from any recog-
nized stockbroker, or any branch of the Commercial Bank
Of Australia Limited, and all branches of
GENERAL CREDITS
277 William St. Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co. mm
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C.B.A.
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Tough for Textilers
Bradford Cotton rides the humps
/\ne of the largest cotton manufacturers
in Australia, Bradford Cotton Mills
Ltd has ridden through a tough time for
textilers with a couple of bumps, but
not crashes, in 1962 and 1963, when
[reserves had to be used to keep faith
with shareholders.
The latest profit of £616,262, up
£69,065 or 13 p.c. on 1963-64, was after
tax of £493,763 (up £184,768) and
depreciation of £730,192 (up £81,581).
The significantly greater provisions be-
fore a higher residual profit reinforce
the feeling that Bradford is over the
hurdles and now on to the straight. The
chairman (Sir Robert Webster), not given
to hasty predictions, did say to share-
holders at the recent annual meeting
that, in his opinion, the company is
soundly based and ready to benefit from
existing business opportunities.
Dividends of 10 p.c. were maintained
throughout, but directors will hesitate to
revert to the \2i p.c. rate prevailing up
to 1960. The company attained public
status in 1935 and has paid dividends
each year of at least 10 p.c.
Today the group comprises a mill at
Camperdown (NSW) spinning cotton and
viscose; at Rutherford (NSW) a rayon
mill and rayon converting division,
cotton preparation mill, yarn dyehouse,
colored spinning mill, cotton weaving
mill, tapestry mill and ribbon mill; a
new spinning and weaving mill, and a
combed yarn mill at Kotara (NSW); a
dyeing and finishing mill, knitting and
finishing mill at Newtown (NSW); spin-
ning, weaving dyeing and finishing mills
at Footscray (Vic.); a weaving and finish-
ing mill at Abbotsford (Vic.); a spinning
and tyre cord mill at Bendigo (Vic.); and
a label mill at Toowoomba (Qld).
The industry, of course, functions
under tariff protection. (Bradford com-
plained mildly of the inevitable dis-
location occasioned by 45 Tariff Board
enquiries in the post-war period.) Brad-
ford contends that the Australian cotton
textile industry can compete with over-
seas producers in equipment, work loads
and technical skills.
Australian weavers at present only
supply 14-16 p.c. of the local cotton
piecegoods market. They have had
periodic blasts of competition from
imports.
Wool, cotton and man-made fibres are
used, but predominantly cotton. Brad-
ford is an important customer of the
local cotton-growing industry.
In recent years large sums have been
spent on modernising mills and building
the £2tn. fine spinning mill at Kotara.
During 1964-65 the dyeing and finish-
ing processes were improved, Bradford
set up the production of flame retardant
fabrics, and is ready to produce blended
fabrics with a permanent press finish.
As in most industries, Bradford had
to contend with rising costs throughout
the year.
Stocks increased over the year to June
by £650,000 to £sm., substantially due
to an increase in turnover. (Debtors
moved up from £2,750,000 to
£3,159,000.) But the chairman reported
that stocks were reduced £200,000 by
the end of October.
The purchase of raw cotton increased
creditors and bills payable by £628,000;
bank overdraft, at £2.5m., was £238,000
lower than at the beginning of 1964-65.
Post-war developments have been
financed by premium share issues in
1949 and 1951, and a one-for-four at
25 p.c. premium in September, 1960.
The company has just closed an over-
subscribed issue of £lm. in 8 p.c. un-
secured notes. It has £lm. 8 p.c. notes
maturing in February next, another
film, in 7i p.c. notes maturing in 1971,
and at last balance date bad £l.4m. in
secured loans.
At 6s. 9d. the ss. shares (which have
traded between Bs. 6d. and ss. lid. so
far this year) are rated at little better
than a fixed interest investment. The
shares yield a point of one p.c. better
than the notes now on offer. At this very
modest price level, there is the possibility
of being able to sell the shares higher
within the year.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assels 6470 6369 6795 7131 8191
Less current liabilities 3122 3970 5199 5352 6921
Working capital 3348 2399 1596 1779 1270
Investments 12 12 12 12
Deterred assets 525 194 13
Fixed assets 7498 9279 10209 9851 9370
Intangibles 40 28 19 9
11423 11912 11849 11651 10640
Deferred liabilities 3693 4411 4121 3884 2719
Preference capital 153 153 153 153 153
Ordinary capital 4321 4321 4321 4321 4321
Reserves 3256 3027 3254 3293 3447
11423 11912 11849 11651 10640
Depreciation 481 475 529 649 730
Taxation 355 145 165 300 494
Net profit 450 257 399 547 616
Net profit for ords 441 248 390 538 607
Dividends 396 432 432 437 437
■Surplus 45 -184 -42 101 170
Earning rate 11.1 5.7 9.0 12.5 14.0
Dividend rate TO 10 10 10 10
Dividend yield (a) 8.1 6.9 8.0 7.3
■Price/earnings
ratio (a) 11.2 25.6 13.9 9.2
High price (b) 12/9 10/- 8/7 7/3 7/10
Low price (b) 8/3 5/9 6/1 6/- 5/-
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.


NO FIXED TERM
,1
P? 1
iM
SAFETY
Hr A*Wm
w
MO rIXED TERM means your investment plus
dividend is readily available for withdrawal. Your
Dividend is 6% p.a, net, (current rate) paid
twice yearly, there are NO brokerage or other
deductions.
Assets exceed £7 million. Write for brochure.
ST. GEORGE & CRONULLA
PERMANENT CO OPERATIVE BUILDING SOCIETY LTD,
J. S. Ward, General Manager
HEAD OFFICE: Co-operation House, 36 Ormonde Pde.,
Hurstville, N.S.W. Phone 57 0201.
CITY OFFICE: 82 Elizabeth St. Phone 28 2801.
Mail to our nearest office.
Please send free comprehensive literature to . .
NAME
ADDRESS.
RBA 785 C
Seeking Wider Markets
International Resistance fights competition
1n announcement can be expected
soon from international Resistance
Holdings Ltd as to arrangement for ex-
tensions of agreements to cover new
product groups in three significant areas.
By greater penetration of the market
for its established products and success
with new product lines, the company
sold in 1964-65 more than £43 million
worth of goods, which was 19 p.c. in
excess of the previous year to June.
Since the near saturation of the tele-
vision market, IRH has sought to find
markets in other industries. With fac-
tories at Kingsgrove, Dee Why and Mar-
rickville in NSW, and in Preston, Vic-
toria, IRH produces a wide range of
resistors, electronic and allied products
for Government departments and general
industrial use, power and automotive
cables, plastic conduits, magnetic com-
ponents for telecommunications, trans-
formers, Elco connectors under licence
from the Elco Corporation in Phila-
delphia, capacitors for the building,
lighting and home appliance industries,
instrumentation and control equipment,
and power supply equipment.
Profits for the year under review were
a 15 p.c. improvement on the previous
year, up by £31,769 to £244,291. They
would have been better were it not for
deficiencies in new plant installed as
part of a major expansion programme.
The current year will first receive benefits
from this activity, for production began
in October, 1965, six months behind
schedule.
Increases in labor rates, with higher
copper and other non-ferrous metal costs,
put pressure on profits. This is con-
tinuing into the current period. Sales for
the first quarter were comparable with
the previous corresponding period.
Although IRH called on shareholders
three times in five years (up to Septem-
ber, 1962), once with a par issue and
twice with 50 p.c. premium issues, the
company now leans towards loan capital.
During 1964-65 it raised £250,000 by
a private issue of registered unsecured
notes and £525,000 in term loan finance
from the Commonwealth Trading Bank.
Approximately £560.000 was invested
in additional fixed assets over the year.
Stocks rose from £1,252,447 to
£1,473,437. while debtors remained con-
stant. Shareholders were told that these
latter were, in the board's view, not
excessive, as they represented only about
three months' sales.
Earning rates have fallen off in the
last two years and undoubtedly the group
has found competition keener, especially
since the UK Plessey group moved into
Ducon.
On recent performance, with prospects
of finer margins and reduced levels of
activity in the industries that IRH serves,
the ss. shares appear fairly valued at
13s. 3d. The income and earnings yield
there is 4.7 p.c. and 6.1 p.c. respectively.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 1352 1519 1837 2029 2267
Less current liabilities 582 991 552 937 950
Working capital 770 528 1285 1092 1317
Investments 9 9 9 21
Fixed assets 1940 2232 2373 2596 3001
Intangibles 164 169 169 206 212
2874 2938 3836 3903 4551
Loan capital 505 469 431 352 951
Preference capital 100 100 100 100 100
Ordinary capital 1000 1030 1442 1460 1460
Reserves 1269 1339 1863 1991 2040
2374 2938 3836 3903 4551
Depreciation 67 89 111 113 155
Taxation 132 87 154 107 133
Net profit 209 195 300 213 244
Net profit for ords 201 187 192 205 236
Dividend 125 128 180 193 193
Surplus 76 59 12 12 43‘
Earning rate 20.1 18.2 20.3 14.0 16.2
Dividend rate 12£ 12| 12i 12| 12L
Dividend yield (a) 3.9 4.1 3.9 5.5
Price/earning
ratio (a) 15.8 16.7 13.9 17.0
High price (b) 25/- 19/9 19/3 19/- 207-
Low price (b) 15/- 14/6 14 3 14/2 12/3
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.


IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: JAMES FREDERICK BROWN. TAKE
NOTICE that ETHEL WINIFRED BROWN has
obtained a Decree Nisi in Suit No. 2332 of
1964. Under such decree you are required
to transfer on or before the 12th day of
January, 1966, all your interest in the property
176 Fisher Road North, Dee Why. AND
FURTHER take notice that the Court has
appointed me to execute such transfer on
your behalf if you fail or neglect to transfer
such interest. Further information may be
•obtained without charge from A. G. KNOX,
Solicitor, 55 Market Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: HENRY THOMAS CAMPBELL. TAKE
NOTICE that MARY HENRIETTE CAMPBELL
has filed a Petition No. 1741 of 1965 for
Divorce on the ground of desertion. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in
the Divorce Registry. Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macouarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 10th February, 1966, and obtain
■a copy of the Petition without charge from
H. D. McLACHLAN CHILTON & CO., Solicitors,
of 16-20 Bridge Street, Sydney. H. J.
MALONEY, Deputy Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: ERIC BERNARD BERGER, formerly of
Lismore. TAKE NOTICE that ELIZABETH
JOYCE BERGER has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2129 of 1965 on the ground of
habitual drunkenness. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court. Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 14th
•day of February. 1966, and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charges from MESSRS
13. T. HODGE & CO.. Solicitors,' of 4 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
No. 3835 Of 1965
Between
NANCE LILLIAN MOXHAM, Petitioner
and
ALAN MOXHAM, Respondent.
TO: ALAN MOXHAM, address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that NANCE LILLIAN MOX-
HAM has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3835
of 1965 on the ground of desertion. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the Twenty-
seventh day of February, 1966, and obtain a
copy of the Petition and Notice of Petition
without 'charge from MESSRS FRANCIS,
TAYLOR & FERGUSON, Solicitors, of 120
Clarence Street, Sydney, or MESSRS R. W.
THOMPSON, NORRIE & CO., Solicitors, of
9 Church Street, Maitland. —C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: LESLIE CHARLES KIRBY, formerly of
Collaroy. TAKE NOTICE that JOAN LUCY
KIRBY has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1929 of 1965 on the grounds of Desertion and
Separation notwithstanding the facts and
circumstances set out in the Discretion State-
ment filed. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 31st day of
January, 1966, and obtain a copy of, the
Petition without charge from MESSRS S. T.
HODGE & CO., Solicitors, of 4 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: JOHN WILLIAM PENINTON. TAKE
NOTICE that WINIFRED ANNE PENINTON
has filed a Petition No. 3172 of 1965 for
Divorce on the grounds of desertion and
separation. If you wish to defend you may
sale an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 21st day of
February, 1966, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from E. B. PENMAN,
Public Solicitor, 55 Market Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: SIDNEY JOHN KILDEA formerly of Ray-
mond Terrace TAKE NOTICE that FAY
JOAN KILDEA has filed a Petition No. 4336
of 1965 for divorce on the ground of cruelty.
If you wish to defend you may file an
answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney on or before the 2nd day of February,
1966. You may obtain a copy of the Petition,
without charge from MESSRS JOHN D.
NORTON RICKARD & SYMONDS. Solicitors,
67 Castlereagh Street or from Bruce O’Sulli-
van, Solicitor, 433 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Public Notice
RUMSEY. FRANK KENNETH RUMSEY and
his sister PHOEBE EMMA NELSON if living
on 30th April, 1965, are entitled to share in the
estate of a deceased person. LEACH &
THOMSON, Solicitors, 472 Bourke Street, Mel-
bourne.
Will DARYL BULLETIN ANDREW, last re-
ported to have been in Victoria about 25
years ago, previously a member of the Civil
Construction Corps, stationed in the North-
ern Territory, or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, communicate with the undersigned.
CLEAVE ANDREW, Box 779, G.P.0., Sydney.
BW 3441.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 879
ACROSS
I —Menzies man visiting Idriess for drinks. (9)
6—South isn’t able to make itself scarce enough to
put the tin in the way. (5)
9—Egg preserver is no beer pot. (10)
10 —Minute after tea is affectedly cute and whimsical.
(4)
13— Inclined to love shelter. (4-2)
14 — Poetry is the core of this material for which the
newspaper cannot find room. (7)
16 — Violated, improperly fed and let down. (10)
17— Country is back before morning. (4)
19— Face the wrong way when
set down. (4)
20- Voodoo. (5, 5)
24 Like one who says fee’s an
adviser of miners. (7)
25 — Hemingway enters in dis-
order. (6)
27—Where travellers may put up
with English legal institutions.
(4)
29 Beachcombers who apply the
eye-for-an-eye principle on
South Carolina’s behalf. (10)
30— Electric light seen about your
fuel. (5)
31— S as distinct from s'? (8)
DOWN
I—Buffalo may make it cloth. (4)
2 and B—Cannibals who appre-
ciate Puccinian heroines may
have such stage-fright. (11,
2,3, 7)
3 Dorothy was under trade
union direction according to
another operatic heroine. (8)
4 He talks on an on, ad nau-
seam, about Moonie. (3-4)
5 Sally pinched everything out
of it with a heartbeat. (7)
7 Wherewith one might punish
Grimalkin. (3)
8— See 2 down.
11— Used to be metal and fuel
hardens properties of dimin-
ishing value. (7, 6)
12— East stands between one
number and its double to
■cause irritation. (3)
15—-Cave-dweller is a slow-witted
one very small creature
also. (10)
IS—Cardinal Hill? (8)
21— All I cry is this: it’s eminently
singable. (7)
22 Very brainy with a meat-axe.
(7)
23 Do you change color. (3)
26—Cleopatra’s pet is far too
much for it. (3)
28—Give voice to. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 878


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies
Act of N.S.W., on Bth March, 1950.
DEBENTURE
STOCK
7
/a
2
4,6 or 10 YEARS
Applications can only be accepted on the form
attached to, and referred to in, the Prospectus.
HOW TO INVEST
Application form and Prospectus may be obtained
from:
• Any Branch of the BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
• Any member of the Stock Exchange
• THE COMPANY'S OFFICES:
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone 27-8621.
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Canberra, Newcastle.
■ mmmm h.iiwii - - mmmm mmmm m
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION
LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, without obligation, a
copy of your prospectus.
B 077
NAME
ADDRESS
21828
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
On a Contentious Meeting
And high hopes for the New Year
TT used to be the annual meetings of the Chevron group that provided the finals
of the year. However, Project Development should steal the limelight for the]
twilight of 1965. On one side we’ve got Mr Gray heading the existing board of
directors. On the other we have Mr Clementson vigorously proclaiming the need
for new blood in Project Development.
Rather than express my preference,
I put to you the following questions.
These questions are followed by facts
which can be used to arrive at your con-
clusion.
Question 1: If Project Development is
a building contractor, why is it that a
substantial portion of funds are em-
ployed in a meatworks?
Fact: Mr Clementson sold the meat-
works to Project Development some
years ago.
Question 2: If (as is plainly shown in
the balance sheet) Project Development
is in a tight financial position, should the
company attempt to become more liquid?
Fact: The financial arrangement with
the Dillingham Corporation should place
the company in a satisfactory liquid
state.
Question 3: Is the statement by Tan-
gible Securities true that the shares have
declined “from 9s. to 35.” during the
past year?
Fact: The high share price in 1965 was
6s. Bd.
Question 4: Will the four directors
proposed by Tangible Securities Limited
bring any specialist building knowledge
to the board?
Fact: Mr Davis, retired; Mr Mclntyre,
solicitor; Mr Smith, accountant; Mr
Fegan, the only gentleman with building
experience but no specific details given.
Getting worked up about something
that will be over by the time this article
is published seems a bit pointless. Instead,
my mood should be more in keying with
the time of the year. Goodwill to my
fellow men and all that.
Last week I followed the advice of
one of the brokers from the north. This
week the recommendation comes from
the south, in the form of Australian
Bacon Ltd.
Most companies show some fluctua-
tion in their trading histories. They
would be hard pressed to match Aus-
tralian Bacon’s performance in 1963,
when the previous year’s record profit of
£BB,OOO turned into a loss of £25,000.
In the main, the sudden change in
trading was caused by restrictive
measures introduced to combat swine
fever. Most of these restrictions were
lifted at the end of 1963 and a small
profit was recorded for the 1963-64 year.
Since then profits have surged upwards.
It could well be that the earning rate
of 22 p.c. in 1965 could be eclipsed by
the current year’s profit. Taking into
consideration that the company has not
paid a dividend for the last three years,
but should pay a dividend this, year, what
should the market price of the 10s.,
shares be? At least 12s. 3d. I hope so,
as that is the price 1 paid for 200 shares.’
The final purchase for the 1965 year
was 400 Kathleen Investment rights at
Bs. Kathleen Investments has already
been in the portfolio this year when
there was a little market interest in the
company. That is no longer so.
- First of all, beach sands have come to
the fore with the announcement of the
big dividend increase by Coffs Harbor
Rutile, a company in which Kathleen
Investments has a 94 p.c. share interest.
Secondly, uranium in general and Mary
Kathleen Uranium in particular have
sprung into the headlines. CRA could
well make another bid for MKU or even
Katheen Investments, which has a 35 p.c.
share interest in MKU.
To pay for these purchases I sold the
Brambles rights at 4s. lOd. and the New
Guinea Goldfields at 3s. lid. Both small
losses, but neither look like improving.
Transactions for the week were:
BOUGHT
200 Australian Bacon, 12/3 £125
400 Kathleen Inv. rts, 8/- £164
SOLD
1000 NG Gold, ev-div., 3/11 £207
500 Brambles rts, 4/10 £ll9
The 1966 year begins with a £43 credit
and also with high hopes. At any rate
that’s what two of the big three think
down in Melbourne.
The portfolio now comprises:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
500 NAUC 28/6/65 7/- 7/-
400 Pongrass 15/9/65 11/ 10/6
200 VAM 28/9/65 5/- 5/-
200 Hotel Metropole 21/10/65 17/6 19/-
220 Tyree 27/10/65 19/- 19/-
1000 Jayworth ctg. 10/11/65 1/- 1/-
300 R. W. Miller 11/11/65 19/- 20/-
300 Stocks & Holdings 17/11/65 12/6 12/6
200 Mai leys 18/11/65 28/- 28/-
400 Kolotex 24/11/65 12/6 12/9
1000 L. J. Hooker 24/11/65 3/1 3/2
400 Peko Wallsend 6/12/65 17/6 18/3
200 Australian Bacon 14/12/65 12/3 12/3
400 Kathleen Inv. rts 14/12/65 8/ 8/-


;
$
3
%
%
i
4
Don’t miss
the special Christmas
and holiday editions of
The Australian
WOMEN’S WEEKLY
They’re packed with features on
delicious (and easy) holiday cookery
"Christmas parties and entertaining
*gift ideas for all the family
PLUS ... relaxing reading: serials,
short stories, true stories
Iroiri!
t


fiUjj £*
f4mh ff ffilfnsH l4Mm h
mkbid
mi, J
i f ■ r
‘f; #:
■Jnkf’f*
ift-i ? ***
!£ £ f «Jtf M 5lJ!® 11ffejf M
srSrJf 5 r*,rfT|#!i!i|r »* r-t»;
if t
Vf' hiX\ f ’JJ i ;..i? H?|
■uVSH’StH *£•#■ * i-v-; -I*
flPi Imf it U vM* '* ■
»I
Hi
*
&
stf
SHAM IA
mo
“NY LEX” Vinyl Wall Covering. Manufactured by Moulded Products (Australasia) Limited
Geon brings textured beauty to walls
This new vinyl wall covering will look just as
new in ten years time. Coating made with
Geon P.V.C. covers a fabric base allowing
the vinyl wall covering to take heavy
punishment without damage or scuffing
Manufactured in a large range of contempor-
ary patterns and colours, this covering is
an architect’s dream washable, fade-
resistant, easily applied to any surface, and
best of all, seams are not easily seen. In
industry throughout the world, Geon leads
the way improving products and developing
new ones. Have you a product we can help
improve or develop?
B.E Goodrich
B.F. GOODRICH C.S.R. CHEMICALS PTY. LTD. Enquiries to G.P.O. Box No. 2538, Dept. A, Melb.
MSB39
