

The Bulletin
T ING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
PREMIER
ASKIN
The New Liberals of NSW


☆
☆
< • •
☆
VJN!
1062
Wmi uifsuKc %
196 3 SI
ViNTAOI t*
I 4 *
f»&0
A
VRET
2T
AVi * :
YA
i;/
mßw P
ilwmbG
*u
«* :;;*ttdL£i
VAiuMBA
m/, 0*
H i t B >.. i
:•: ■ v': ■■ *.• .1
: - .ggjßaßpa*.
Vis**""*
Get to know fine table wines Ask for Yalumba!
The reds and whites of Yalumba are highly prized in every
worthwhile cellar.
Selected Barossa. Valley grapes are handled with painstaking
care to produce these superb examples of the vignerons' art.
But then, the Smiths of Yalumba have devote'd five genera-
tions to making quality wines.
You expect the best from Yalumba—And you get it!
GALWAY VINTAGE CLARET. Delightfully light Claret. Matured in
French oak casks and then laid down in the bottle to further mature.
MOSELLE. Light and bright, with the delicate sweet finish of a true
Moselle.
FOUR CROWN BURGUNDY. A soft and fuller flavoured red, beloved
of gourmets.
CARTE D'OR RIESLING. Pale and crisp, and made from Rhine
Riesling grapes grown in the Eden Valley district.
(tin mb ci
TABLE WINES
S. Smith and Son Pty. Ltd. Yalumba Vineyards, Angaston, South Australia


is this a single lens reflex?
nmriTiiiiißn
56
no bulge!
no bulk!
yes!
it’s the revolutionary
Olympus Pen
The most significant step forward in the world of serious
photography since the first 35mm camera itself! A full-blooded
professional camera of highest mechanical and optical quality, com-
presses all the features of the conventional SLR into a spectacularly
compact and lightweight precision camera. Single frame image size
cuts down the bulk . . . totally new porro prism eliminates the bulge.
Brilliant viewfinder with high corner-to-corner contrast, instant return
mirror that swings sideways at twice the speed, complete choice of fully
automatic interchangeable lenses . . . including zoom.
More Pen-F exclusives include the solid titanium high-speed rotary
shutter that ends distortion, of moving objects, synchronizes with bulbs,
or electronic flash at all speeds to 1/500. Non-spinning
shutter dial sets in either direction, couples to
accessory CdS meter.
Pen-F size is ideal for easy carrying, fast and steady
handling, unobtrusive shooting. Lenses are half the
size, a third the weight of conventional 35mm SLR
lenses. Focusing is faster, more precise . . . and as
close as 14". Pen bayonet mount makes lens inter-
change fast, secure. Ask for FREE copy of indepen-
dent test report and price list.
Price with fl.B 38mm lens and case £64.10.0
Interchangeable lenses for Pen-F include 25mm f 4
wide angle, 100 mm f 3.5 telephoto and 50-90 mm f 3.5
zoom. Full range of macro and micro accessories.
' (4SO/93/6S
VINSON FOR VALUE PRODUCTS
The Bulletin
VOLUME 87
NUMBER 4449
Established 1880
JUNE 5
1965
The Making of a
Premier
Askin’s Route to Macquarie
Street 19
The Sydney Opera
House
Lord, how the money rolls in .... 42
AROUND MELBOURNE 26
ARTS AND ENTERTAIN-
MENT 42
BUSINESS AND FINANCE 58
CELLARMASTER 40
CROSSWORD 82
FORUM 51
LETTERS 50
MAN ON THE LAND 79
OVERSEAS 28
PLAIN ENGLISH 13
TANNER 12
THIS AUSTRALIA 14
GENERAL
Changing from White to Grey 14
New Guinea a Seventh State .. 15
Schooling the Home 16
Healing the Mad 23
Spies Positions Vacant 28
The Monsoon Offensive 29
China in Africa 31
The Priest’s Story 36
REVIEWS
THEATRE: Constant Motion .. 45
FILMS: Flipping Her Wig 46
TELEVISION: Ready for
Anything , 46
BOOKS
Khrushchev and the Arts, by
Priscilla Johnson 53
The Bad Samaritan, by Anne
Rider 54
The Interrogation, by J. M. G.
Le Clezio 57
FINANCE '
Shocks in Electricals 58
Reply from the A.-G 59
Speculator’s Diary 78
Editorial Office: 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


1f...- ;: -. *. ?:
S2Bk
j*- 1
la:-;.
' --JsSi
..X.
~;r..
now!!!!!!
maximum
right at
your
fingertips
WITH
SPECIAL
KEYING
SYSTEMS
MK-A
(fP
Al.
Li.cl
A 2?
A 3.
1(4)1
A 4.
A 3.
MASTER-KEYED SYSTEMS
A Master-Keyed System is one in which each
.lock has its own individual key, which oper-
ates that lock only and no other, but where
each lock is also built to a Master-Key which
will open all locks in the group.
Within a Master-Keyed System, if required,
certain ■ locks may be grouped in a section
Keyed-Alike to a given Service-Key, and still
subject to. the Master-Key.
GMK
MK-A
T 1
MK-B
Al. A 3. Bl 82. *B3. Cl. C 2. C 3. '
A3.(|| CI.O
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which
operates that lock only and no other, but the
locks are divided into two or more groups,
Each group is subject to its own Master-Keyj
which opens all locks in that group, but no
other group.
However, all locks are also subject to a
Grand Master-Key which opens all locks in
all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike
groups may also be included in G.M.K. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM YOU
NEED CARRY ONLY ONE KEY
INSTEAD OF HUNDREDS!
REPLACING INSECURITY
AND CONFUSION WITH
MAXIMUM SECURITY.
MAXIMUM CONVENIENCE!
In industry and commerce today a Lockwood MK System is an essential pre-
requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade and
Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part of the
building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are held
on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries enabling quick
replacement of lost keys or damaged locks “true to code”, and allowing absolute
control of additions or extensions to the systems.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss Master-
Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty. Limited
at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention. manufactured in Australia by
LOCK UP
WITH
N.Z. Agent: G. D. LITTLE LTD.,
Wellington and Auckland.
New Guinea Agent: CARL F. RADKE
AGENCIES, Port Moresby.
Ogden Industries
PTY. LIMITED
Melbourne: 569 0611 • Sydney:
56 3191, 56 3114, 56 3166, 56 3186
Brisbane: 7 3047 • Canberra:
4 4098 • Adelaide: 8 2153
Perth: 23 2214 • Hobart: 3 3141
Launceston: 2 1441
Agents
also
in Kenya, Uganda, Tanganyika, South Africa, The Rhodesias, Malaysia, The Philippines, Hong Kong,
Thailand, Indonesia,


FROM SYDNEY TO THE U.S.A.
with colourful stopovers at TAHITI
and LOS ANGELES ... and on to
Paris and London, too! And what a
delightful experience it is, flying fast,
French and fabulous. Remarkable not
only for its imaginative gourmet meals,
restful comfort and French hospitality,
but for the very special way you’re
treated. Travelling with the world’s
largest airline makes you feel like the
privileged member of a fascinating club.
STEP INTO
FRANCE
as you board
*
w
w
*
AIR FRANCE
THE WORLD’S LARGEST NETWORK
33 Bligh St, Sydney. 28 0471 • 327 Collins St., Melbourne. 62 1635
49 Creek St., Brisbane. 2 8358
A,
.•* i
A
vP’
Imagine visiting a Hollywood
Studio, watching a movie in the
making! Our Welcome Service
helps you enjoy your stay at
every stopover.
NB32'e ; :


; f-'n-T-n""" i n n i —i ■ll iwinimwiii 11
.
... ■
~ -; ■ ; ■■
<. -■ «■ - ■ , v /- ' V y -> ''
.; ■>* ' y ft . \ '" >4-
■ < - ft
- ' s
f *7'?' •*?"*’ ' -V, ; :
;ft, ’
,-ft
. :>'ftW:'ft. •
■ft ■'-■'■ ■■
v
■: .
ft' ‘ ” ' ' w
ft/*: v■' **' ->* i
lift: 'iiftftlli; ?
P j ,* m
~ A,.
llHsiS
- •- -
»
,*v-
I
ft-
■ :
-
ii
iV .1
.
■
M
, J--;"
if
/-A
S ' **
Hi
- •.?
ftift
ft
mm
■:.'>V
AMOCO HAVE THE LUBRICANTS AND
CUTTING OILS TO MEET YOUR NEEDS
Amoco can provide you with all your fuel, lubrication and cutting oil require-
ments. If you are a user of petroleum products in any quantity Amoco offers
you the best products and technical assistance available in Australia.
Many Australian companies, large and small, are making the switch to Amoco.
Call the Amoco Industrial Sales Manager in your State —let him tell you how
Amoco can serve you.
1
o
c
A
M
OILS, FUELS & TECHNICAL SERVICE
AMOCO AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
BRISBANE
119 Leichardt St.
Tel. 2-2781
SYDNEY
102/106 Arthur St.
N. Sydney. Tel. 92-0842
MELBOURNE
34 Queens Rd
Tel. 26-4043
ADELAIDE
38/40 Currie St.
Tel. 51-2692


m
% .a
i S?
■
liliWEl
INADEQUATE FILING WASTES TIME, CUTS PROFITS
Brownbuilt Vertical Files
increase filing efficiency
Business can’t wait while your secretary and staff
search through an inadequate, inefficient filing system.
Install today, efficient Brownbuilt all-steel vertical filing
cabinets, designed for all modern filifig systems.
Brownbuilt vertical files are guaranteed for 5 years!
Proof of solid construction, quality materials and first
class workmanship.
Brownbuilt vertical files boast exclusive, silent “cradle
unit” suspension arms which glide progressively forward
with the drawer to evenly distribute the weight.
Better buy Brownbuilt . . .
with the 5 Year Guarantee!
5
Brownbuilt
STEEL EQUIPMENT DIVISION
VT O^
M
USE OUR
FREE ADVISORY
SERVICE
MELBOURNE, 48 0311; SYDNEY, 27 7821; BRISBANE, 47 1747, ADELAIDE, 76 5111; CANBERRA, 9 4824;
PERTH, 21 5967; HOBART, 2 6571; LAUNCESTON, 2 5584. DISTRIBUTORS IN METROPOLITAN & COUNTRY CENTRES.
6029/C


plays
for
7
GRINNELL
wm/
At the first sign of fire, Grinnell springs into action —swiftly, automatically, with a
certainty that is evidenced by the unmatched record of Grinnell since 1889.
Grinnell extinguishes hundreds of fires yearly with negligible loss from fire, water and
smoke. In many cases the damage is so slight that no insurance claims have been made.
For 24-hour-a-day fire protection, look to the safety, the certainty, the experience of
the Grinnell Automatic Sprinkler and Fire Alarm System.
GRINNELL
A WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRY
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER AND FIRE ALARM SYSTEM
WORMALD BROTHERS
Complete Fire Protection Service
G49.V5


National Notebook
Paranoia
Q peaking to us at Mascot before leav-
ing for Europe, Nobel Prize-win-
ning physiologist Sir John Eccles was
quite definite as to why he had entered
the Knopfelmacher Affair. “I came into
this as a Vice-President of the Associ-
ation for Cultural Freedom. If enough
protest is made, perhaps pressure groups
who want to use the Professorial Board
in future will think twice. The extra-
ordinary procedure adopted was quite
frightening—l do not knew of any Selec-
tion Committee being treated like this
in all my experience.”
Academic circles were buzzing last
week with reports that, because Sir John
felt so strongly about Sydney University’s
“alarming and revolting” rejection of
Dr Knopfelmacher, he would personally
boycott the university by refusing to act
as a consultant in any scientific or ad-
ministrative capacity in the future.
All that Sir John was prepared to say
was that everything had to be done to
prevent a repetition of the affair. “I
have never met Dr Knopfelmacher. I
might add that I would do the same for
a Communist. But what is really ter-
rible about this case is the whispering
campaign. A professor at Sydney who
really knows nothing about Dr Knopfel-
macher told me: ‘Why, the man is a
paranoic.’ Another senior academic,
not on the board, told me the same.
Neither has even met Dr Knopfel-
macher, yet without any special know-
ledge, each is prepared to make psy-
chiatri diagnoses. This is a shocking
thing in a university.”
Sir John was at Mascot before flying
to Rome where he will discuss publica-
tion details of a symposium—“ Brain and
Conscious Experience”—which he is
editing for the Pontifical Academy of
Sciences. In Stockholm he will lecture
at the First Nobel Symposium, which is
being held on a physiological subject.
Soviet Cocktail
A bout a dozen newspapermen turned
up at the home of “Pravda” cor-
respondent Yuri Yasnev in Canberra last
week for what they hoped might be one
of the year’s good stories. They re-
sponded to the following invitation
posted on the notice board of the Parlia-
mentary Press Gallery:
“Only for brave journalists!
“On Monday, May 24, at 5.30 p.m.
in the headquarters of the secret agent
of MVD, i.e., ‘Pravda’ correspondent,
4 Elliott Street, Campbell, Canberra,
ACT, there will be a half-Press con-
ference or half-cocktail party.
“Only stomachs will be washed out.”
Some Pressmen assumed that a half-
Press conference was one at which they
would hear half-truths. But they went
along expecting a denial of any connec-
tion with the MVD from Mr Yasnev,
who has gained a reputation in Can-
berra as a good talker.
A columnist’s item in “The Canberra
Times” mentioned: “Probably because
he looks so much like one, there are
always rumors around Canberra that Mr
Khmara (the new Tass correspondent in
Canberra) is the present MVD agent.
“There are many, however, who believe
this job belongs to Mr Yasnev—probably
because he looks nothing like one.”
When the Pressmen assembled at Mr
Yasnev’s home and were drinking beer
(Victorian bitter) or vodka (genuine
Russian) he blandly informed them there
was no Press conference after all and
showed a short Russian tourist film
about a Moscow taxi-driver.
Yasnev, a former major in the Red
Army, told questioners: “No, no, we just
have a party.” Mr Khmara, who speaks
little English, was also present. But
some of the Pressmen left with the feel-
ing that the Press conference had been
called off by order.
Ecumenism
'T'he most warmly ecumenical church-
JL man must have reservations about
a hand of another denomination dipping
into his pocket. That is the inference to
be drawn from a sternly-worded article
in the May issue of the Tasmanian An-
glican newspaper “Church News”.
The paper reports that missionary col-
lectors have been calling at Tasmanian
homes “purporting to represent the
ABM”. However, they were not repre-
sentatives of the Australian Board of
Missions, the official missionary agency
of the Church of England.
“When pressed to the limit they ad-
mit that ‘ABM’ to them stands for ‘Ad-
ventist Board of Missions’,” the report
said. “They are collecting for the Sev-
enth Day Adventists, who are doing un-
told harm in New Guinea and other areas
of the Pacific by enticing many newly-
won native converts away from their own
Church.
“It is rarely that these people do the
spadework in the mission fields of win-
ning these heathen people to Christ. In-
stead, they win many natives who are
new to the Christian faith away from
their own Chufch and encourage them
to attend their schools, which often are
only a few miles away,” the report
stated.
Ah, Dreams!
Come ideas are so tenacious, and
survive such years of battering or
neglect, that there must be value in
them. One is the notion that Melbourne
should make an airport—while it still
can—on an area of Fishermen’s Bend,
a desolate Yarra-side industrial and port
zone only five minutes by car from the
city’s heart.
Melbourne’s two present airports are
Essendon and Moorabbin for light
planes and flying instruction. The De-
partment of Civil Aviation would like
to see a “light aircraft terminal” at or
near Fishermen’s Bend, and the State
Government is examining the idea.
Melbourne’s freeway development plans,
however, envisage a Lower Yarra road
running right across the Bend flats.
An airstrip already exists, as part of
the aviation industry that became sig-
nificant at Fishermen’s Bend in the last
war. In 1939, only three months before
the war, a firm of Melbourne architects,
H. Garnet, Alsop and Best Overend,
put up a scheme for Fishermen’s Bend.
It included an airport for land planes, a
flying-boat base, additional wharves for
overseas liners, and “a two-mile channel
from the Bay at Port Melbourne to a
pleasure-boat harbor west of Spencer
Street Bridge”. Topping the lot, it
suggested “an underground railway
circuit linking the city and the Port
Melbourne wharves”. Ah, dreams!
"You'll hear a protest song about this."


gii«S
w
m
■w.
COMPLETE INTERNAL TELEPHONE SERVICE FROM ONE COMPACT UNIT
When modern business methods
call for fast, flexible internal tele-
phone communications, STC PAX
operates with outstanding effici-
ency, providing fully automatic
inter-communication between ex-
tensions. As well, complete privacy
and secrecy is maintained for each
extension. Executive priority is pro-
vided for selected extensions. Loud
speaking telephones, modern
coloured handsets, central dicta-
tion, are just a few of STC PAX
optional systems.
STC PAX is available in installa-
tions ranging from 10 lines to 100
lines. In the case of the smaller
installations these may be added
to as telephone requirements are
extended through an organisation.
No special room is required to
house the small compact unit. In
every way STC PAX represents the
ultimate in internal telephone effici-
ency. For further information con-
tact Standard Telephones and
Cables Pty. Limited, 252 Botany Rd.,
Alexandria, Sydney. Phone: 69 0444.
Melbourne: 44 5161. Canberra: 91043.
Distributors: OLD.: Fred Hoe & Sons,
Brisbane 4 1771. S.A.: Unbehaun &
Johnstone Pty. Ltd., Adelaide. 51 3731.
W.A.: M. J. Bateman Pty. Ltd., Perth.
21 6461. TAS.4W. & G. Genders Pty.
Ltd., Launceston 2 2231, Hobart,
Burnie, Devonport.
ITT
worldwide telecommunications and electronics
MIB3B


Music Man
HPhe English composer Peter Maxwell
Davies, visiting Australia for a
UNESCO seminar on school music,
talked to us a few days ago about
musical inheritance. “I don’t think I’m
conscious of inheriting an English
tradition,” he said in a quiet, decisive
voice. “If I wanted to find one I’d
have to go a long way back, right back
to Purcell and before. It’s not a living
tradition handed down, because of the
gap between Handel and the 20th cen-
tury.”
We asked if he thought much of
Vaughan Williams, a big name among
his predecessors. But it was not a
day for reassurance. “I disagree with
Vaughan Williams’s idea of trying to
make English folk music expand into
a whole symphonic movement,” he said.
“The nature of the material doesn’t
justify that sort of treatment. It’s not
capable of such elaboration. Vaughan
Williams wasn’t working in a tradition
of symphonic thought. Mahler or
Schoenberg could take over a tradition
where it was normal to invent musical
material which would work, without
strain, on a large-scale symphonic form.
But while this had been going on in
Europe during the 18th and 19th cen-
turies, England was asleep. The way of
musical thought was just not there. It’s
not without significance that even Elgar
wrote two symphonies in which the
developments just don’t work.”
Davies (he does not know why he is
usually called Maxwell Davies, and pre-
fers the surname alone) is 30, a slightly
built, intent-looking man. He told us
that the outlook for the performance of
new music is improving. Three of his
own works, including the instrumental
and choral cycle “O Magnum Mys-
terium”, have now been recorded. He
has almost finished an opera about the
early English composer John Taverner
which he hopes will be performed by
1968 probably first in Germany.
We asked if the problems of com-
posers were the same today as always.
“No,” he said. “Some problems are
exaggerated now, particularly in relation
to style. Until 50 years ago a composer
could write in the style current at the
time, and you measured his originality
by the amount by which he changed the
common style. But now there’s no
common ground from which a composer
can start. The whole thing’s gone into
the melting pot. Each composer has to
find a style for himself. It has meant
that the lesser composer is almost
eliminated; there isn’t a style for him
to write in.”
Did it matter, we wondered, that even
the musically educated were often floored
by new music, including perhaps some
of his own? “I think people are dis-
turbed by new ideas,” he said easily.
“I’ve got enough confidence in what I’m
doing not to be worried by people’s be-
wilderment. I think that will sort itself
out in time.”
Confidential Information
r | 'he Independent Secondary Schools’
Association is alarmed by the grow-
ing practice of WA employers asking
for school reports from young job-seek-
ers. It has sent circulars to employers
detailing its concern and is now even
more worried by the Petch Education
Report’s recommendation that school
certificates include a general assessment
of students in addition to their class
records.
Association secretary Brother J. A.
Kelly said last week that he expected
members to oppose the recommendation.
The association maintains that these re-
ports are confidential and intended only
for parents.
P. R. Stephensen
T>. R. (“Inky”) Stephensen— who col-
A lapsed and died last Friday after a
speech at the Savage Club, Sydney—has
earned a lasting place in Australian let-
ters. Few will ever be found to agree
with his political ideas, even among those
who considered his internment during
World War II was unjust, but his liter-
ary achievements and his passion for
Australian literature will be remembered
when the Australia First affair is for-
gotten.
His was a career of remarkable variety
and vitality: a Rhodes scholar from Bris-
bane, he went to Oxford a Communist,
and made the first English translation of
Lenin’s “Imperialism” (from the French)
and of Mayakovsky’s “Death of Lenin”
(from the Russian). After Oxford, he
abandoned Communism for Bakunin’s
anarchism and expounded it in “The
London Aphrodite” which he edited.
Before returning to Australia he man-
aged the Fanfrolico Press, which pub-
lished his translation of Nietzsche’s
“Anti-Christ”, and the Mandrake Press
which published D. H. Lawrence’s paint-
ings and Stephensen’s short stories, “The
Bushwhackers”.
Back in Australia he continued book
publishing, ghosted some of Frank
Clune’s most popular books, and wrote
his classic statement of literary national-
ism, “The Foundations of Culture in
Australia”. Soon after that he launched
“The Publicist”—often fairly attacked as
a fascist but perhaps more accurately
described as National Bolshevik publica-
tion. Since the war he had confined him-
self to writing, his most successful book
being “Sail Ho! My Early Years at
Sea” which he wrote with Sir James
Bissett. Perhaps now, with all contro-
versies over, people will remember his
dedication to Australia as shown, for
example, in his fine homage to Sir Isaac
Isaacs with which he closed his “The
Foundations of Culture in Australia”.
The speech he delivered just before his
death at the Savage Club was a defence
of the Australian publishers of “The
Trial of Lady Chatterley”.
A BOYCOTT OF GOVERNMENT HOUSE
‘ffiffeulletiti
80 Years Ago: June 6, 1885
Tt is a matter of superlative indif-
-*• ference to us whether “His Grace”
the Roman Catholic Archbishop, or
“His Right Reverence” the Anglican
Bishop, be granted first pop at kissing
the saponaceous hand of Lord Augus-
tus Loftus. The two prelates might
jostle each other for the highest seat
at the feast, until all the cocks in the
vice-regal fowl-yard had crowed them-
selves hoarse in the vain effort to
remind the competitors that they were
denying their Master, and we should
contemplate the struggle with com-
posure. The presumption of priests
presents nothing that is novel. But
the alleged existence of a code of
precedence which recognises these
parsons at all, as such, is a matter
which concerns the community. The
people of New South Wales have
deliberately framed their system of
government on certain lines. And
prominent among their decisions is
one that no sects shall be recognised
by the State in this colony. Yet it
appears that in absolute antagonism to
this Constitutional rule the flunkeys
of the Imperial offices have laid
down for the Governor, whom we
hire, a code of precedences in which
the “dignitaries” of at least two sects
are formally recognised. Thus Gov-
ernment House is made guilty of a
contempt of our Constitution. This
is nothing less than the establishment
of a foreign rule in our midst, and
the simplest relief from the spectacle
of one priest of a foreign Church in
contemptuous repose, supported by
the Governor in pretending to higher
position in Australia than another
priest of another foreign Church,
would be by our lay citizens, of every
station and condition of life, refusing
to present themselves within the
precincts of Government House on
official occasions until this slight upon
our unsectarian form of government
were knocked in the head.


Tanner
"Do you think Barnes is a member of a subversive
plot to undermine respect for Parliament?"
"Sober on Anzac Day! What are you
trying to do discredit the image of
Australian servicemen of two wars?"
"I see what he means about the need to view things on a wider basis than tribal loyalties."


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Attorney-General and
“The Bulletin”
{"Vn page 60 of this issue, the At-
torney-General, Mr B. M. Sned-
den, replies to The Bulletin’s
criticism of the Trade Practices Bill.
Some of his comments are welcome
and acceptable—if belated—explana-
tions; others are not. The former
include his points that, as well as
hearing the tribunal’s findings, the
public will also hear the reasons for
its opinion; that “gentlemen’s agree-
ments” will be subject to the legisla-
tion whether they are enforceable at
law or not; and that the function of
the proposed tribunal will be to deter-
mine matters coming before it and not
merely to settle them.
However, the Attorney - General’s
comments on The Bulletin’s two
main points of criticism are far from
satisfactory. One of these criticisms
was that too much secrecy is to be
involved in the overall determination
of w'hether trade practices breach pub-
lic interest. The other was that no
provision has been made for the pub-
lic to instigate complaints against
trade practices.
Although the Attorney-General re-
acted strongly in his reply he did not
meet the criticisms. Granted, as he
says, the public may be admitted as
spectators and even as intervenors
upon such conditions as the tribunal
thinks fit to the proceedings of the
tribunal, the fact remains that, at its
discretion, the tribunal will be allowed
to hold its session in camera. Mr
Snedden believes that secret sessions
will be the exception, not the rule, but
there are no safeguards in the Bill to
ensure they will not become the rule
and no guide lines for the tribunal to
follow in its decisions to admit the
public.
In his second reading speech he
emphasised that the register of trade
practices would not be available for
public inspection in any circumstances.
This in itself suggests an intention iO
keep at least the examination of such
practices by the Commissioner com-
pletely in the dark. In these circum-
stances, surely the provision for secret
hearings of the tribunal looks suspect.
Mr Snedden’s explanation is even
less reassuring in the matter of public
complaint. He tacitly admits the
absence in the Bill of any formalised
complaint procedure. Is it therefore
good enough for him to assure us that
“the Commissioner will take such
action in relation to the complaints as
appears to him to be appropriate”?
It would be far better if the Bill were
absolutely specific on this point.
There was never any doubt that, as
the Attorney-Genera! states, public
complaints would have to be related
to matters outlined in the Bill as being
subject to the Commissioner’s scrutiny,
even if the Attorney-General now
seems merely to be thinking aloud on
this aspect. The truth appears to be
that the Government has only been
awakened to the importance of pro-
viding for public complaints through
The Bulletin’s exposure of this
deficiency in the Bill.
Insane or Criminal?
'T'he report on insanity on page 23
of this issue raises a human but
neglected aspect of Commonwealth-
State relations. Most patients who
enter State psychiatric hospitals, with
the exception of some special degazet-
ted units, are still regarded in the
same way as criminals entering gaol.
The patient is deprived of his invalid
pension, of any unemployment benefit,
of any old age or widow’s pension;
he does not get the sickness benefits
he would get if he was suffering from
any non-mental illness or if he were
being treated in a private psychiatric
clinic. All this because the Common-
wealth’s view is that, by contributing
partly to the construction of mental
hospitals, it need do little more since
the treatment of the mentally ill is a
State responsibility.
This, however, overlooks some in-
creasingly important medical con-
siderations —especially as psychiatric
treatment becomes more closely
centred on community participation
schemes. The situation is particularly
poignant at a special unit like Bay view
House at Callan Park Hospital,
Sydney, which, although a degazetted
area, is still being treated by the Com-
monwealth as a gazetted hospital. The
unit is investigating the factors neces-
sary for rehabilitating mental patients,
and its psychiatrists insist despite
the Commonwealth’s policy that
there is a special therapeutic value in
financial assistance to patients. This
enables social retraining in the handling
of money; it means patients can buy
their own clothes, can visit relatives
and above all regain their lost self-
respect. The Commonwealth’s present
policy, in other words, impedes re-
covery. Surely it can afford to take
a more enlightened view and not
penalise mental patients in the same
way as criminals by hiding behind the
formalities of federalism.
Reason Why
At one of last weekend’s meetings on
Vietnam, Professor Frederick
May (who was Sydney University’s
main spokesman recently in defence
of its Professorial Board’s political
discrimination in academic appoint-
ments) came out openly in criticism
of the commitment of Australian
troops to aid our allies in Vietnam.
This is not surprising, but he re-
peated the familiar argument ac-
cepted even by some who supported
the commitment that we made this
decision under pressure from the
United States. This shows an alarming
misunderstanding both of our position
and of American Dublic opinion.
America can safely withdraw from
South-East Asia, but, if it does, Aus-
tralia would then be lost. The truth,
therefore, is surely plain that we com-
mitted troops to South Vietnam not
because America needs another 1000
men but because we want them there
in order to make it harder for the US
to withdraw. We have a higher stake
there than the Americans, and as the
North Vietnam monsoon offensive
begins (see story, page 29), this ought
to be clear even to the Anglican
bishops and Professor May.


POLITICS
Changing from
White to Grey
ALP Federal Executive decision
THIS AUSTRALIA
By BRIAN JOHNS
CANBERRA The most interesting
development at the meeting of the ALP
Federal Executive in Canberra last week,
which was not made public, was the
decision to change the Party’s platform
on “White Australia”. Not that the
change to be put to the Federal con-
ference for approval in August is all that
radical what is in the ALP these days?
The Federal Executive decided that
the words “White Australia” should be
removed and replaced with a manifesto
that the Labor Party stands for a
basically European population for Aus-
tralia. Conditions of migration should
be without racial or religious prejudice,
and regard should be given to the par-
ticular economic value of intending
migrants. In effect, what this does is to
bring ALP policy in line with the Federal
Government’s stated policy that the
limitation on non-European migrants to
Australia is on economic grounds.
Yet the new wording would ensure that
a Labor Government would never again
have a Minister for Immigration pursuing
a policy as unfeelingly inflexible as did
Mr Calwell in the post-war years: Non-
Europeans already in the country would
have some hope of becoming Australian
citizens and there would be room for
others with special skills to come to Aus-
tralia on a permanent basis.
For this much, the Federal Labor
Party’s immigration policy committee,
which was instructed to look at the
White Australia policy again after the
last Federal Conference when the Party's
platform was under fire, is to be con-
gratulated on recommending the charge
to last week’s Federal Executive meeting.
The policy committee reached its deci-
sion at a meeting in Canberra last Satur-
day week. It was passed unanimously
by the eight-man committee of Senator
J. Fitzgerald, Messrs F. Daly, F. Stewart,
F. Collard, R. W. Holt, C. T. Oliver,
F. E. Chamberlain and D. Dunstan.
Oliver's vote was particularly interesting
because of his dual function as NSW
ALP president and State secretary of the
AWU, one of the most recalcitrant pro-
ponents of the White Australia policy.
But the decision was not unanimous
on the Federal Executive. Curiously, the
West Australian delegates, Mr C. H.
Webb and Mr Chamberlain, were re-
C. T. OLIVER
ported to have been among the four
voting against recommending the change
to Federal conference.
However, discussion by the Federal
Executive on the central issue of last
week’s meeting Mr Wyndham’s
recommendations for complete reform of
the ALP's structure left only a little
room for optimism. This is not surprising
because Mr Wyndham, whose own rapid
rise to power within the ALP is probably
without precedent, is asking for the high-
est political sacrifice a ruling group to
curtail its own power. And he is doing
this when the Party is more bedevilled by
faction-fighting than at any stage in
its turbulent history. This ferment, as
last week showed, has yielded only a
waste of enthusiasm and impetus within
and without the ALP.
One gain Mr Wyndham did make. He
withstood and defeated a determined
effort by Mr Chamberlain to have his
report stymied by the executive. Despite
reports to the contrary, the decision to
J. E. FITZGERALD
T. DOUGHERTY
refer Mr Wyndham’s submissions for
reform to the State branches was not a
victory for the Left. Reference to the
States was provided for in the original
terms set out for Mr Wyndham when
his report was authorised by Federal
Executive last year. But the meeting did
confirm that the present ruling group
has deep reservations about increasing
the executive from 12 to 20 members,
and to broaden the Federal conference of
36 to at least 74, including automatic
representation by the four Federal Labor
leaders and the Parliamentary leader in
each State.
BRANCHES: There is more enthu-
siasm for change at the State branch
level, so Mr Wyndham might still see sig-
nificant portions of his report accepted.
The notable exception will be Western
Australia, which under Mr Chamberlain's
leadership is likely to reject it in toto.
For other States it will be a matter of
each endorsing parts, rather than the
whole.
Among Mr Wyndham’s less dramatic
suggestions which could well be imple-
mented are his proposals for additional
Party finance. He is aiming at a target
of £lOO,OOO to be raised by securing
2000 party members to collect Is. a week
from 20 ALP sympathisers. This money
would be used to extend the work of
the Federal secretariat in Canberra and
to strengthen the Party bureaucracy by
such benefits as an adequate pension
scheme which would help Parlia-
ment by removing the pressure to find
jobs for the boys.
To the disappointment of many, the
Federal Executive made no inroad on
the vital leadership question. Neverthe-
less, the motion of confidence in Mr
Calwell had no real significance as a
power-indicator merely a rubric in


the ALP’s tired ritual of respect for the
myth of unity. Of more meaning was
the executive’s consideration of Mr Cal-
well’s complaints about public statements
of his Deputy, Mr Gough Whitlam.
After Mr Calwell had outlined his
objections plaintively and Mr Whitlam
replied for something more than an hour,
the executive took no action. As with his
stand on State aid in the Caucus, Mr
Whitlam’s performance, which was
uncomprosing, on the executive,
impressed those there who, though in
sympathy with him, doubted his strength
of purpose.
The executive might easily have been
harder on Senator Kennelly for his call
early this year for a rapprochement with
the DLP. With the recent disclosure of
his attempts to make a deal with the
DLP in the NSW elections, Senator
Kennedy was worried that the executive
might have been provoked to more
extreme action than a censure. Casting
around for a line of defence, he intended
embarrassing his opponent, Mr Cham-
berlain, by equating the DLP move in
NSW with the West Australian’s famous
pre-Federal election pact with the Leader
of the Country Party, Mr J. McEwen.
The general secretary of the Aus-
tralian Workers’ Union, Mr T.
Dougherty, was extremely angry at the
Federal Executive’s rebuff to his massive
union for its boycott of the Federal
Parliamentary Party. However, the
scheduled talks between the AWU and
the Parliamentary leaders in an attempt
to heal the breach are still expected to
be held.
TERRITORIES
New Guinea a Seventh State?
White Australia - the barrier
By GORDON CHESTERMAN
CANBERRA Professor J. D. B.
Mliller, head of the Department of the
Internation Relations of the Austra-
lian National University, told a Cultural
Freedom Seminar on New Guinea last
weekend that he saw no readiness
amongst Australians to accept New
Guineans having a right to develop a
cultural and economic stake in the wide
Australian community.
“White Australia stands as a barrier.
Whereas most of the arguments about
letting Asians into Australia as perman-
ent settlers are about Asian intellectuals
and others accustomed to a fairly high
standard of living, any argument about
Ne' Guineans coming in would have to
be conducted at the level of the nurse,
the carpenter, the clerk, the street-sweep-
er, and so on,” he said.
Pr fessor Miller felt the seventh State
wouF’ be the most satisfying of all the
so’ itions; and might prove satisfying to
New Guineans, although this was highly
disputable. What was clear was that
White Australia and the seventh State
would not mix, and that White Australia
still had a very great force. The seventh
State and the importance of continued
rule short of self-Government were the
only two alternatives to sovereign status.
The choice would be, he thought, be-
tween the British, New Zealand and
French models, unless a dominant group
of New Guineans suddenly developed a
self-denying antipathy toward Australia
and insisted on going it alone.
Whatever model was adopted for the
future connection the problem of actual
contact with New Guinea, of the extent
to which New Guineans were admitted
to Australia, would remain to be solved.
“I do not see how we can avoid it. We
are building a society in New Guinea
in which the modernised element is being
trained to look to Australia for standards
and attitudes. Again, there is the fact
that whatever New Guineans do to the
institution we hand to them will remain
a ma" :r of concern to us.
“We shall be in no position to shrug
our shoulders and leave them to their
own devices, as the British left the
Ceylonese and the Burmans. New Guinea
is too close, and we are too much wrap-
ped up in it. If, as the acidulous Dr
Murray Groves has suggested, it is the
case that Australians are very bad at
race relations and if we insist on hav-
ing a lot to do with an independent New
Guinea while denying its people op-
portunities in our midst, then we shall
be asking for trouble.”
POLICY: Following Professor Miller’s
paper, Mr Dirona Abe, a member of the
Papua-New Guinea House of Assembly,
and Under-Secretary for Health, criti-
cised the White Australia policy and
described it “like a sore that was hard to
clear up”. Mr Abe told the Seminar he
was an Australian citizen —yet there
were limitations on his entry into Aus-
tralia. Supporting him, a young New
Guinean working for the Reserve Bank
in Sydney, Mr Henry Roberts, said the
Australian Government should clarify its
attitude to Australian citizenship for
Papuans and New Guineans.
Professor Henry Mayer of the Uni-
versity of Sydney, presented his paper—
“ New Guinea—An Innocent Abroad”,
earlier in the piece and it was later
criticised.
C. E. BARNES
By that time Professor Mayer had left
the seminar. He was given the task of
swotting up on the papers presented at
the previous two New Guinea seminars
(at Port Moresby and Sydney) and asked
by the organisers to “comment”. Though
he admitted to being a novice in this
field he felt that a broad contrast was
usually drawn between “Australian-type
democracy and political conditions in
New Guinea”. It was assumed that New
Guinea politics would and ought to
evolve toward the Australian model
taken as a “to be aimed at”. He said
he did not want to discuss the issue of
whether this was a desirable form, nor
how good the chances were that it would
be achieved by New Guinean decision-
makers.
The picture New Guineans had of
Australian democracy was a peculiar
one. It combined: Realistic attention to
one—but only one—major decision-mak-
ing institution in our society—the Public
Service—with almost complete neglect of
other equally, if not more important key
institutions or fields of power. “There
is very little reference to the role of New
Guineans in having a say in major eco-
nomic institutions and there is even less
talk about mixed marriages and all mat-
ters relating to sexual behavior. I argue
not on any ground of ‘principle’ but
purely pragmatic grounds, that these two
hot potatoes will not cool down by being
ignored,” he said.
Even as far as formal Governmental
institutions were concerned, he said, New
Guineans were getting a picture in which
the legislative and individual legislators
were key decision-makers. So long as
the importance of Cabinet and the
Executive was minimised “progress” to-
wards “democracy” could be highlighted
and the changes which had taken place
seemed rapid and basic. Professor May-
er claimed that a good deal of discussion
about New Guinea had, in fact, steered
away from points of major potential
friction.


EDUCATION
Schooling the Home
Preaching “ correct” social and ethical values
MELBOURNE Dr Laurie Shears,
chairman of the Victorian Education
Department’s standing committee on
Health Education, has provoked a hotly-
contested controversy over the introduc-
tion of a new syllabus on Health Educa-
tion into secondary and technical schools
next year.
Already both the Victorian Secondary
Teachers’ Association and the Victorian
Teachers’ Union have denounced the
social and psychological portions of the
new syllabus and have described it as
“unsuitable for 12-year-olds”. Their mem-
bers have also been asked not to partici-
pate in the training courses which will
precede the syllabus’ introduction. How-
ever, since these two bodies are not par-
ticularly powerful, about 20 teachers will
shortly begin a training course in order
to experiment with the course in 20
secondary schools next year.
According to Dr Shears, who is also
principal of the Burwood Teachers’ Col-
lege, one of the reasons for introducing
the new course is the Victorian Educa-
tion Act of 1958, in which temperance
and health are laid down as two neces-
sary subjects in the school’s curricula. Be-
sides meeting the requirements of the
Act halfway, Dr Shears’ course can claim
several other distinctions. His is the first
committee the Education Department
has ever formed on a particular part of
the curriculum; it is the first course
parent organisations have had any say
in; and it is the first course which
teachers’ bodies have unanimously boy-
cotted.
HEALTH: The controversy over the
course is possibly in the meaning of
“health”. Had the course dealt solely
with hygiene, home safety, etc., there
would have been no complaints. Dr
Shears and his advisers (especially Dr B.
McCloskey) were quick to point out that
this sort of health problem had been over-
come by community and Government
action.
Dr Shears, in defending the course,
has quoted “strong support” from the
Health Department, the Mental Health
Authority, the College of General Practi-
tioners, the Anti-Cancer Council, the
Home Safety Committee, the National
Heart Association and the Health Inspec-
tors’ Association. Against this, the
teachers claim that this support is for the
physical health side of the course, but not
the social adjustment section. The VTU
said the useful parts of the course were
already included in existing studies
biology, domestic science, social studies,
English—but its request for an experi-
ment in integration had been sidestepped
by the Department.
Dr Shears, Dr McCloskey and an
American health educationist, Mrs V.
Erwin who has spent some time in Aus-
tralia, all claim success for similar courses
in Western Australia, America, England,
Scotland and Denmark. Their evidence in
Western Australia, however, is hard to
verify as the psychological portions of
the courses were not introduced.
Basically, the argument lies in the role
of schools. The teachers themselves do
not consider the classroom a place to
air personal and family difficulties. They
believe that individual counselling should
be expanded to deal with the problem
children, and that the general level of
the emotional health in the community is
the responsibility of families and freely
chosen institutions.
Defenders of the course have naturally
become wary. The prospect of teachers
preaching “correct” social and ethical
values is explosive publicity and needs
playing down. After considerable publi-
city, together with Mrs Erwin’s proposed
syllabus, published in the VSTA’s maga-
zine “The Secondary Teacher”, Dr Shears
accused the teachers’ organisations of
indulging in “irresponsible publicity”. In
fact, Dr Shears had tried to stop the
editor publishing the syllabus.
The teachers are now endeavoring to
discredit this syllabus and seem willing
to risk appearing reactionary. Dr Shears,
in an attempt to counter this opposition
with his committee, decided last year to
alter the course to an experimental one.
The original committee of 1961 intended
to introduce the course the following year
without any preliminaries. This met much
opposition and the committee was ex-
panded with representatives of teachers’
and parents’ organisations. A new sylla-
bus was commissioned and the project
was declared an experiment. A spokes-
man for VST A complained that the ex-
periment is being used to blanket discus-
sion of the course.
ARGUMENTS : Now the argument
has reached the point of no return; the
committee is not prepared to discuss the
course’s desirability and will wait to see
whether it is practical with 12-year-olds.
There are teachers and experts who be-
lieve they they can define “a satisfactory
emotional and social environment”. It
seems that they will not need any inten-
sive, specialist training, because their
course will be more philosophical than
scientific. If they survive the current
attacks, they will drastically change the
traditional neutrality of State schools.
SHIPPING
A Doubling Dream
The rising freight rates
By J. C. HORSFALL
MELBOURNE Australia will need
to double its export income by 1974-75,
Sir John Allison, chairman of the Export
Development Council, warned this week.
This, lie thinks, is a precondition of being
able to achieve a consistent annual
growth rate of five per cent as envisaged
by the Government.
In saying this, Sir John postulated
that capital inflow, now more unpredict-
able than for some years, would increase
by £lO million a year and that consumer
and import prices would rise on an
average by only one per cent a year
over the period. Such assumptions
could well prove to be unduly favorable
and the export task become assuredly
increased.
In his list of suggestions for gearing
the economy for this massive increase in
exports, Sir John mentioned that port
facilities would have to be transformed
in size and efficiency to take the strain
of the expected increase in external
trade but he neglected the vital question
of the cost of shipping it. This could be
all important, not only because of the
fresh evidence of the inexorable rise in
shipping freight rates which came to
hand during the week, but also because
the nine months’ figures for Australia’s
outlay on transporting exports and im-
ports already shows quite an alarming
increase on the year.
It looks as though the gross cost of
freight will top £2O0 x million for the
year to June, compared with £l7O million
last year. To get a net figure for trans-
portation payments, overseas funds earned
by Australia have to be deducted on this
account. In the roll-up it is unlikely
that net outgoings on transportation
account will be much less than £9O mil-
lion for 1964-65 as against £7l million
last year, though the increase is to be
attributed more to a continuing rise in
imports than to export freight.
The increase from five to ten per cent


in shipping freight rates to Asian ports
now announced by the Australian-New
Zealand Eastern Shipping Conference
will in itself add only about £350,000 to
the national bill of about £l5 million a
year for shipping freight to these destina-
tions. But added to recent jump in ship-
ping rates to a number of other countries
including North America (up 10 per
cent), Ceylon (up 7i per cent), South
and East Africa, Persian Gulf, Pakistan
and India, the latest rise makes the extra
slug for exporters from increases this
year £lO million in a full year. This is
a severe blow, particularly for exporters
of manufactured goods now boldly
assaulting new markets.
Costs: According to the shipping lines,
the rises have been forced on them by in-
creases in operating costs caused various-
ly by trouble on the Australian water-
front, where even thicker clouds look to
be gathering, and by the slower and
therefore more costly turn-round in
shipping coupled with higher repair,
maintenance and labor costs forces
which they say are beyond their
control. Far from accepting this expla-
nation, exporters say they are in the dark
and without any say in the matter. A
spokesman of the Australian Manufac-
turers Export Council, when announcing
a committee of his body would be investi-
gating reasons for the latest increases,
deplored the “jacking up”. But there is
not much they can do about it.
All this lends weigh; to the proposal,
which one noted from the WWF lorry
in the recent May day procession here,
is supported as strongly by the wharfies
as it is by the writer, that Australia
should have a national overseas shipping
line to do more of our own carrying
and, inter alia, make ourselves consider-
ably less dependent on monopoly
decision of overseas shipping tie-ups.
Unless Australia does, I fear Sir John
Allison’s target to double our export
income in the next decade will remain
a dream.
FISHING
Chaos
Safety hazards
PERTH For the second time in
seven months, Western Australia’s Fish-
eries Department has been the butt of
Royal Commission criticism.
The first time was when the depart-
ment was said to be mainly responsible
for the chaos in the State’s crayfishing in-
dustry.
And last week Royal Commissioner
W. J. Wallwork endorsed accusations by
Deputy Police Commissioner Napier that
“the department does not appear to
worry much whether a vessel is sea-
worthy or not, and in my opinion has
a very poor attitude towards life at
sea.”
In his 89-page report, Mr Wallwork
stressed the need for long-range search
and rescue aircraft to seek out victims of
boating mishaps that come up every few
weeks in West Australian headlines. He
also roundly criticised Government
apathy towards the policing of safety
precautions among ocean-going pleasure
craft. The Harbor department, which is
in charge of these precautions, had been
“most inadequately staffed anc equip-
ped,” he said. Not only the small pleas-
ure craft, the boom in which causes
traffic hazards on the Swan River are
considered dangerous, but Mr Wallwork
paints a frightening picture of what could
happen if a ferry crossing boisterous
Gage Roads to the popular holiday re-
sort Rottnest Island overturned and sank:
“I fear that the loss of life would be
great . . . What would happen . . . can
only be left to the imagination.”
Cabinet last week approved two of his
recommendations to help remedy the
situation, one for a certificate of sea-
worthiness before registration, the other
for snap inspections.
KNOPFELMACHER
Making
Hansard
Outrage and revolt
SYDNEY—The Knopfelmacher case
formally entered the Hansards of both
Victoria and New South Wales last
week.
In New South Wales, an Independent
Labor member of the Legislative Coun-
cil, Mr J. H. Gardiner, asked the Gov-
ernment to find out from its six repre-
sentatives on Sydney University’s Senate
why there had been such “disgraceful
procedure” in the rejection of Dr Frank
Knopfelmacher. Mr Gardiner said that
public and academic opinion had been
“outraged and revolted” and pointed out
that Nobel Prize Winner Sir John Eccles
had protested about the rejection.
The Leader of the Government in the
Council, Mr A. D. Bridges, saic! that he
would refer the matter to the Minister
for Education and Science, Mr C. B.
Cutler.
In Victoria, the Premier, Mr H. E.
Bolte, said he would try to keep Dr
Knopfelmacher in the State. In reply
to a question from Liberal Mr A. H.
Scanlon, Mr Bolte said that the contro-
versy surrounding Dr Knopfelmacher
was a “little ludicrous” because he was
a man of obvious ability. Although the
matter had nothing to do with the Gov-
ernment, he would personally contact the
Vice-Chancellor of Melbourne Univer-
sity about the matter.
TASMANIA
Bit by Bit
Losing the islanders
HOBART In Tasmania, where aw
elector under 52 has voted at an election
which returned a non-Labor Govern-
ment (Labor has been in power 31 years),
trouble may be catching up on Mr Eric
Reece’s seemingly indestructible admini-
stration.
Tasmania’s net loss of population by
migration is increasing so rapidly that
it could become a critical issue when
the House of Assembly next goes to the
electors, four years hence.
In the year ended December 31, 1959,
Tasmania’s population rose by more than
8000. The following year, with a net
migration loss of 1000. the total gain
was only 5200. In 1962 the net gain was
about 5200, but a leap in the adverse
balance of migration cut the net gain for
1963 to 4200. Last year a 3450 excess
of emigrants over immigrants slashed the
net increase of population to 1600, the
smallest yearly figure since 1945. Worse,
everything points to this year’s migration
loss being greater than the natural in-
crease. Once again, Tasmania will be
exporting Tasmanians, as it did in the
dark days until the 19305.
This is explosive material for the Gov-
ernment to handle. It can justly point
to soaring factory output, but some jf
the statistics are illusory. • Aluminium,
zinc and copper from the refineries
E. REECE
which have come for Tasmanian’s cheap
power boost the value of production, but
employment has not risen apace. Jobs
are offering for skilled men, but not for
the unskilled or semi-skilled. Men are
following work to other States.
Politicians privately agree that Tas-
mania has a strong case for Common-
wealth development aid (‘'Fill the empty
South!”) but dislike the thought of


stripping to show the wounds. Parlia-
ment is being loaded with the sort of
“progressive” legislation which passes
for progress, notably the umpteenth
attempt compulsorily to close Launces-
ton’s shops on Saturday mornings.
The Saturday-morning paralysis began
in Hobart in the mid-1930s and has since
spread over most of the State except
Launceston. In the past, in the House of
Assembly the Liberals have fought hard,
if fruitlessly, hoping that the Legislative
Council would finally throw out the Bill
(as indeed it did on each occasion). This
time, more than half the Liberals
abdicated and limply, if unconvincingly,
supported the Government’s shopping
restrictions.
ROAD SAFETY
World’s Worst
Seat belts compulsory
BRISBANE The Queensland
Cabinet in a surprise move last week
decided to ask the Australian Transport
Advisory Council to consider the com-
pulsory installation of seat belts in motor
vehicles. The decision was brought about
by Queensland’s rapidly-mounting road
toll —equal to the worst in the world.
The Queensland Cabinet also decided
to recommend that protective helmets be
compulsory for the riders and pillion
passengers of motor cycles and motor
scooters. The Queensland Transport
Minister, Mr Gordon Chalk, will make
the recommendations to the Advisory
Council’s meeting in Perth on July 7.
As The Bulletin went to press 183
people had died on Queensland roads in
147 days—a worse rate than last year.
Cabinet, no doubt, was helped in its
decision by data provided by a special
traffic accident investigation team which,
in a special car, has been rushing to
accident scenes from its base at Brisbane
Hospital for months. The team includes
a doctor and a psychologist. Among
many interesting findings, the team has
reaffirmed that safety belts are the only
real protection for motorists. The team
is expected to continue its study for
several more months.
WATERFRONT
Whose Line?
The power groups
Melbourne Two stoppages in a
day and the promise of a 24-hour one
later was the Melbourne waterside work-
ers’ prompt reply to official moves last
week to end strife on the Australian
waterfront.
The Federal Government announced
that it would hold an inquiry into means
and methods of reorganising the steve-
doring industry after Mr Justice Gal-
lagher of the Commonwealth Concilia-
tion and Arbitration Commission said
he was willing to preside over an inquiry
to “consider all aspects . . . and claims
. . . by the Federation”.
The inquiry will quickly establish what
is already well known on the waterfront:
conflicting power groups within the
WWF causes more disputes and lost
man-hours than purely industrial issues.
There are four power groups: one loosely
adhering to the ALP; the remnants
of the Industrial Groups; and the
highly organised Communist Peking and
Moscow factions.
It is the interplay for power by the
two Communist groups that poses the
biggest problem. The orthodox, or old
CPA group, strongest in Sydney and at
a Federal level, is faced with a dilemma.
It must at one and the same time at-
tempt to change its tactics to conform
with the new soft Italian line, with its
stress on reform rather than direct action;
one somehow retains the image of a
dynamic revolutionary party pressing for
ultimate results by industrial action.
Waiting in the wings is- the militant
CPA (Marxist-Leninist), with its simple
credo of direct action.
STOPPAGES: This group has its
strength in Melbourne, and via two
officials, assistant secretary Mr “Ted”
Bull and vigilance officer, Mr Lew
Hillier, practically controls that port.
Now, should the CPA group, under-
estimating the position and striving to
implement the “new” line lose some con-
dition,! or, not gain a new one, the CPA
(M-L) are ready to jump and with the
accusation “bosses, stooges, etc.” Thus
the CPA must at times albeit un-
willingly take the stony road of direct
action to retain its image and position.
It is in this context that there will as-
suredly be more stoppages on the Viet-
nam issue. The situation for the CPA
M-L is clear, direct action is a way of
life, while the Industrial Groups wait,
building strength, ready to jump into a
power vacuum, and the Labor forces,
bewildered at lack of leadership, follow
on the heels of whichever CPA group
puts forward the more positive policy.
This state of affairs will continue until
Mr Fitzgibbon asserts himself, repudiates
what in many cases is clearly Communist
tactics, and begins by judicious choosing
and backing of ALP candidates to sup-
plant Communist officials of both faiths.
Or alternatively he makes some sort of
a pact with the Industrial Group and at-
tacks the Communists frontally. Both
these courses have been recently exploit-
ed and both proved successful. Long
before Senator Kennelly made his ap-
peal for unity, the ALP and DLP on
the waterfront had come together and
waged a campaign, with Fitzgibbon as
official ALP candidate, that put Fitz-
gibbon in the general secretary’s chair.
Until he, or someone with similar pres-
tige, moves in such a fashion as to break
Communist power in the wharfies, at-
tempts to reorganise the waterfront will
be frustrated.
AWU
The Big Heat
Arson attempt
ADELAIDE South Australia has
become a battleground in the AWU
leadership struggle.
The importance the AWU Federal
Executive places on the upholding of the
dismissals and expulsions of 12 SA
branch officials became apparent during
the first round of the legal battle for rein-
statement by expelled secretary-elect Don
Cameron and his Left-wing supporters.
It engaged top Sydney industrial
lawyer J. T. Ludeke to appear for the
AWU when expelled SA vice-president
J. D. Wright asked the Full Bench of
the Commonwealth Industrial Court in
Adelaide to set aside the three rules
under which the men were charged. Mr
Ludeke is understood to be representing
the AWU when the Industrial Court
hears rules nisi granted to 10 of the.dis-
missed officials calling on the AWU
Federal Executive to refrain from carry-
ing out its dismissal and expulsion orders.
Judgment in Mr Wright’s case will not
be given until after the hearing of the
rules nisi later this month.
Behind the Executive’s action against
the SA branch officials is the Left and
Right-wing power struggle in the AWU.
It is apparent that Federal AWU sec-
retary Mr Tom Dougherty fears that
if Mr Don Cameron and his supporters
gain control in SA, they will attempt to
gain control of the Federal Executive.
A telegram above Pat Mackie's name
pledging support for Don Cameron was
intercepted by the Federal Executive at
the AWU’s Adelaide headquarters.
Already the affair has stirred up
sufficient feeling to precipitate an arson
attempt on the AWU headquarters in
Adelaide. (It failed when cleaners dis-
turbed the would-be arsonists, who
escaped.)
The SA Attorney-General Mr Don
Dunstan is believed to be backing Don
Cameron. Dunstan could use the support
and influence of the 17,000-man branch
in his bid to become Premier of SA. So
far, Clyde Cameron has kept well behind
the scenes, but trade union circles are
tipping that Roma Mitchell, QC, for the
dismissed and expelled men, will call
him as a witness in the rules nisi hearing.


The Making of a Premier
Asking's route to Macquarie Street
When Robin William Askin assumed
leadership of the NSW Liberal
Party in 1959 after one of the
sporadic power-struggles that have con-
vulsed it in the last 20 years it would
appear that he personally had gone about
as far as he could go. Triumphant State
Labor, after 18 years of government,
appeared to be in almost permanent pos-
session of the Treasury benches in Aus-
tralia's biggest State. Askin's own party
was still publicly nursing the many
bruises inflicted upon it by the series of
brutal decapitations of its party leaders
coupled by an uninterrupted series of
electoral defeats.
Between the Parliamentary Party and
the Ash Street machine there was a feel-
ing of mutual mistrust that occasionally
erupted into the headlines but always
existed below the shallow facade of
party unity. Party branches were run
down and many would have collapsed
completely had it not been for the
Federal Party's success and the indefati-
gable activity of the party's general secre-
tary, Jack Carrick.
Overcoming all these disabilities and
bringing the Liberals to power for the
first time in Australia’s most populous
State is the unlikely and completely un-
expected achievement of Bob Askin, the
ex-AIF sergeant who entered politics
after 27 years of insulated conformity
as a minor official of the Rural Bank.
A week ago, sitting behind his ponderous
desk in the Premier’s Department, Askin
himself was still going through the
motions of being modest about his
triumph. Cosily he confided to the after-
noon Press: “You use ‘immediately’ less
often when you are in Government.”
Certainly, there was nothing “immedi-
ate” or abrupt about Askin’s long and
tough journey to the seat of power,
which he occupied for the first time on
May 13.
How did he do it? Of all sciences,
politics is the most inexact. We will
never know precisely why the electorate
decided to evict the Labor Party after
24 years. There are as many theories as
there are politicians and as many pundits
as there are political scientists. What
can be related is how Askin went about
winning an election that has shaken up
party allegiances more than any Austra-
lian State poll since the depression. This
included a ruthless purge of the old guard
of the Parliamentary party in the 1962
poll—a fresh Leftward look in the 1965
policy—and, perhaps most difficult of all,
acceptance by the lay organisation of the
new policies and alignments of the Askin
Party.
His most serious mistakes were made
in the 1962 election campaign in which
his party lost five seats. If this election
taught him anything, it taught him the
merits of keeping his own counsel—
listening but deciding for himself. Before
the 1962 election he was prevailed upon
by various members in his party to in-
clude the graduated easing of rent con-
trol on rented houses in his policy speech.
Even today Askin will not admit that
this was an error of judgment, although
electoral results in key city seats indi-
cate that it was disastrous.
Significantly, however, Askin has been
careful since the 1962 poll to put some
considerable distance between himself,
the Parliamentary party and the Ash
Street machine. Far more significant, he
reversed his rent policy three years later
in his 1965 policy speech.
The most contentious element of his
1962 policy was his refusal to come out
and support direct State Aid. The
Liberals had long been “to-ing and fro-
ing” about this for some time. Askin's
first major sounding of party opinion was
taken at a State Council meeting in 1961.
State Aid proposals were then almost
unanimously endorsed. This alarmed a
significant and highly influential minority
group inside the Party which effectively
and energetically began to agitate on the
issue, confirming opposition to State Aid
among a section of the Liberal Party
executive and a large group in the Parlia-
mentary party. Despite this, during the
week before the State election, Catholics,
including the then party president, Ralph
Honnor, still believed direct State Aid
would be the plank in the Liberal Party
platform. What this meant was that one
week before the policy speech Askin still
had not made up his mind.
At the last minute, Askin balked and
left himself open to charges of political
cowardice and sectarian manipulation.
Just why he balked will never be known.
He was aware of the opposition to direct
State Aid by important sections of the
Sydney Press and in his first election as
Opposition Leader may well have placed
too much importance on the division
such a proposal would cause in the
Liberal Party ranks. It is also said that
some individual Liberals including Askin,
did not believe the party had a real
chance of winning the 1962 election, fol-
lowing the almost disastrous 1961
Federal Poll. These Liberals argued that
the State party should not run the risk of
dividing a party in an election that was
already a lost cause.
Some Liberals today are as uncertain
about the role State Aid played in this
year's victory as most Federal Liberals
are about the electoral importance to
them of the Communist issue. But just
as there is no doubt that the Petrov affair
and the Federal Government's subsequent
use of Communism as an election issue
opened a now hopelessly wide cleavage
in the Labor Party, ensuring Liberal
office, so too did direct State Aid on a
State level divide the hitherto united
Right-wing ALP Government of NSW.


m
wm
I
I
RLANDO
TAWNY
PORT
AUSTRALIAN WINE
G.CRAMP £ SONS PTY.ITD
•OOSt* VALLEY. SOUTH AUSTRAU*
Hill PIN! 611 02
mmm
m i
mmm
a
Wsi
P O R
GOOD DUCK, SON
The special companionship of father and
son when the boy is a man and the old
man is still young. The special warmth
of 18 years old award winning Orlando
Vintage Tawny Port.
Or, the slightly younger mellowness of
Orlando Gold Medal Port, the wine
that was awarded the Port Cup and
Highest Award in its class at the 1964
International Viticultural and Wine
Fair at Montpellier in France.
These are wines made to make com-
panionship, made to add more warmth
when you say “Good luck”.
Orlando 1947 Vintage Tawny Port and Orlando
Gold Medal Port are Vintaged by G. Gramp & Sons
Pty. Ltd. in South Australia’s famous Barossa Valley.
iiiJlafl
Senior members of the NSW Liberal
Party, including present State President i
Jock Pagan, his predecessor Ralph Hon-
nor, General Secretary Jack Carrick,
and senior Federal NSW Minister Wil-
liam McMahon, have long supported
direct aid to all schools.
The Catholic vote
A skin himself has probably never been
opposed to State Aid. Following the
Menzies Government’s State Aid pro-
posals in 1963 he, no doubt, felt that in
1965 he could take the risk he dared not
take in 1962, and still lead a united party
to the polls. Quite clearly, he decided
to ignore the Communist-dominated
NSW Teachers’ Federation one of
the most powerful opponents of State
Aid. He felt their opposition did not
represent the vast body of State teachers,
whose votes he hoped to attract in
another way by removing State teachers
from the control of the Public Service
Board and setting up an Education Com-
mission.
More importantly, he realised that the
real value of the State Aid issue for the
Liberals was that it was the only possible ;
issue he could use to prove his bona fides
to the traditional Catholic Labor voter
who was already voting Liberal in
Federal elections. The old pre-war aural
that the Liberal Party was essentially a
Protestant party and that Catholics “need
not apply”, was a handicap that had to
be overcome in order to defeat State
Labor. Direct aid to their schools
already stretched beyond capacity by the
Wyndham report was the only way the
Protestant Mr Askin could prove to the
Catholics that sectarianism was a dead
letter in the Liberal Party.
Having decided privately to advocate
State Aid in the 1965 election, Askin
side-tracked the party’s executive and
policy body where the opposition was
entrenched. He minimised risks inside
the Liberal Parliamentary Party by ob-
taining their approval of direct State Aid
the day after the Labor Party Premier
Jack Renshaw, had presented his policy
speech, thus making unanimity almost
mandatory. In the event it was unani-
mous; one MLA conveniently absenting
himself from the party room to make
telephone call while the vote was taken.
Another important ingredient in As-
kin's State Aid policy was the element of
surprise. Askin's great fear, having decid-
ed at least two years before the 1965 elec-
tion to support State Aid, was that this
would be matched or even capped by the
State Labor Government. In this respect
he started with the considerable advant-
age that the ALP Federal Executive had
ruled against direct State Aid and, in
order to prevent this policy being re-
versed, he went through all the public
motions of being an anti-State Aider.


Introducing Benson &o Hedges
Special Smoking Mixture
... a new classic among the
world’s great pipe tobaccos.
Modestly priced at 7/6 a tin,
it is the right tobacco
when only the best will do.
And isn’t that all the time?
BUfßtoh.
:fllr
m
mm
iljsgjyk
M
m
r
8H768.2.65
Camouflage was set up. Advocates of
direct State Aid who discussed the ques-
tion with him —even two months before
the election—came away convinced that
Askin's intentions as far as non-State
schools were concerned would be con-
fined to indirect aid by way of subsidies
for text books and free to-and-from-
school travel for country children. Dis-
creetly, too, Pressmen were told that the
anti-State Aid forces had dominated the
1964 elections to the Liberal Party State
Executive and that this would make it
almost impossible for the Parliamentary
party to offer direct aid. All of this ela-
borate camouflage undoubtedly helped to
lull Labor fears that the Liberals would
change their policy. When the news
finally reached them in the Liberal policy
speech, which was delivered after the
ALP one, they had to take it on the chin
and shut up.
The new image
Tn order to get the strength he needed in
A the Parliamentary party Askin. from
the outset of his leadership, gave discreet
support in the 1962 pre-selection ballots
for particular candidates he considered
would give the Party the fresh image it
so obviously required to win office. The
1962 elections following on re-distribu-
tions of electoral boundaries saw an
almost complete change in personnel
from the phalanx of north city seats.
Fresh faces included the new Minister
for Justice, Mr John Maddison, the
Minister for Health, Mr A. H. Jago, both
from the upper reaches of the North
Shore. Two other new faces from the
North side included television personality
R. O. Healy and wartime fighter ace,
John Waddy.
After the 1962 defeat, the Parliament-
ary party had a completely different
look about it. This gave Askin an
unusual degree of power which he
used to change the direction of Liberal
policy from the Right to almost the Left
of centre. For the first time Liberal
MLAs were to be seen in places, in con-
siderable numbers, that hitherto were
regarded as the preserves of the ALP.
Randwick, football, and sporting clubs,
road safety councils, Good Neighbor
councils and P and Cs. Askin
solicited and obtained invitations to at-
tend annual meetings of the State Public
Service Association, the Police Associa-
tion, and of similar bodies. Notable
evidence that he had realised that he
could never win office without breaking
through the traditional class barriers was
the Liberal Party advocacy in State Par-
liament of reform of the Railway super-
annuation fund and other Public Service
superannuation funds which affected re-
tired people living on fixed incomes.
However, all this was not enough. It
became quite obvious some two years


The great
Indonesian hotel
in Djakarta
is an
INTERCONTINENTAL
Where else will your
client be charmed by
reflecting pools, batiks,
Balinese gardens and
dancers and still
pay as little as $lO
for a room with a
balcony?
V-X-
-“'jionoV ‘
! 'Tsfr
i.'rrrtr:*
La
TL
S3*
2
m
%
Indonesia’s tallest building and
largest hotel has all the comforts
of an Intercontinental hotel (pri-
vate balconies, continental
cuisine, swimming pool, air-con-
ditioning) and all the charm of
Indonesia (grand festive hall,
Spice Islands cuisine, and South
Sea rates).
HOTEL INDONESIA.
R. Kane Rufe, General Manager.
One of the 29 incomparable Intercontinental
Hotels. Call your Travel Agent or Inter-
continental.
"Rtuta
15849 Pan jntercc
item-
INTERCONTINENTAL HOTEL
before the election that, after 22 years
of Labor rule, traditional Liberal sup-
porters were sceptical about their party’s
chances, and that they had to be given
a shot in the arm.
Surprisingly enough, this shot in the
arm came when Mr Rex Connor, MLA
leader of the Left Wing in the State
Labor Caucus was endorsed as
an ALP candidate in the 1963 Federal
elections. This caused a by-election in
the blue ribbon Labor seat of Wollon-
gong-Kembla in February, 1964. Askin
decided that this must be the first test
of strength of his new party. He felt
encouraged in making this decision by
the landslide-proportions of the swing
to the Liberals in the Federal poll. He
also realised that this electorate was
particularly vulnerable to a strong Liberal
challenge. For years the ratepayers of
Wollongong had complained about the
lack of representation on the Sydney
Water Board which controls water and
sewerage in Wollongong-Kembla, and
about sky-rocketing rates on property in
the inner city which had forced many
workers to move out of the electorate
to cheaper land on the outskirts of the
town. There was an unusually high pro-
portion of migrant electors and the Lib-
erals were confident of attracting a big
proportion of these.
Against the advice of Ash Street, Askin
threw himself into a full-scale by-election
campaign in Wollongong-Kembla. He
visited the area three or four times a
week in the month preceding the by-
election, addressing meetings and making
local TV appearances. In the midst of the
campaign, before spruiking to steelwork-
ers as they came away from a shift, he
said to his Press Secretary, Alan Green;
“You wouldn’t think there was a Liberal
voter among them, would you?” But there
was, and when the numbers went up
the ALP majority had been reduced from
4000 votes to about 200 and there had
been a dramatic 8 per cent swing against
Labor throughout the electorate a
swing more than big enough to defeat
the Government if repeated at a State
election.
“Better than real”
Askin used this result and the subse-
quent by-elections in Lakemba and
Waratah, which confirmed the swing
against Labor, to enthuse workers and to
convince political backers of the Party
that in supporting the Libs they had a
“better than real” chance of winning.
Arm-in-arm with this uplift in party
morale he set to work to cultivate every
dissident group in the community. His
policy speech was the result. There was
something it did for almost everyone,
including a host of promises that would
cost nothing to implement and others
which added up to a substantial financial
commitment. One example of this at-
tention to minority groups was his pro-
mise to amend the Dog and Goat Act,
which was treated with derision by the
ALP. Askin worked out there were some-
thing like more than two million animal-
owners in the State and he knew pressure-
groups were bitter about current penal-
ties for cruelty to animals. So he an-
nounced he would amend the Act and
privately asserted this as a bonus of ten
votes in each electorate. His Press Secre-
tary sent out press notices and drew
an estimated 80 per cent result from
country and suburban newspapers
throughout the State. Assistant Secre-
tary of the State Labor Party, Mr Tony
Mulvihill, could give some measure of
the effectiveness of the thrust; he was
posted a clipping of the report from an
elector who had complained to him on
the issue, with a terse note asking what-
Labor was going to do about it.
Final confirmation of the swing against
Labor came with the December Senate
result which for the first time returned
three Government Senators and two
Labor Senators to Canberra. Then came
the Maher case, and in an attempt to
take the heat out of possible repercus-
sions, Premier Renshaw picked May 1
as polling day, to ensure that the cam-
paign would be as short as possible—both
Easter weekend and Anzac Day falling
in the time between policy speeches and
polling day.
The cost of the campaign? No party
will admit the cost of their advertising
campaigns, nor will they say what was
spent on their campaigns as a whole.
Both Liberal and Labor Party professed
to look enviously at the other’s machine
and ability to raise campaign funds. The
Liberals, who increased their full-time
organisers from 18 to 25 for the cam-
paign, point to Labor’s pool of trade
unions officials from which to draw for
its campaign effort.
Labor also hits at the Liberals for its
‘‘big business” resources, but, in franker
moments officials from both sides admit
that in the last election campaign two
out of three business concerns contributed
to the Labor Party. Some who contri-
buted to both gave more heavily to
Labor one big company is said to
have given £lO,OOO to Labor and £2OOO
as token insurance to Liberals.
Among the unions on the other hand
there were some notable omissions, in-
cluding the Miners and Waterside work-
ers; the Painters and Dockers’ Union is
believed to have weighed in with the
munificent sum of £5. (Similarly, one of
the largest industrialists in Sydney re-
sponded to a Liberal appeal for funds
with a cheque for two guineas.) There
is no record of an industrial trade union
contributing to Liberal funds. Bob
Askin’s Liberal Party has still that dis-
tance to go.


The great
Oriental hotel
in Hong Kong
is a member of
INTERCONTINENTAL
Where else will you
be served as an
Oriental potentate
and still pay as
little as $ll for a
room with a balcony?
n
Our Sikh welcomes you to the
most fabulous hotel in Hong
Kong’s . . . Oriental
garden and swimming pool, air-
conditioning, cruises of the har-
bour on a private junk, and the
perfect location on Hong Kong
Island, overlooking the harbour.
THE MANDARIN
T. A. P. Ross, General Manager.
One of the 28 incomparable Intercontinental
Hotels. Call your Travel Agent or Inter-
continental.
(IJatjciariQ
MEMBER OF INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS
III
HEALING
THE MAD
of the mind
but of the life”
By SAM LIPSKI
Tuesday at Bayview House, Sydney. To get there you walk through the grounds
of Callan Park Psychiatric Hospital, where the dank and the old is hutted up against
the fresh and the new. An old church hall is being crushed .under the wrecker’s
hammer. The high, vaulted timber ceiling adds to the medieval air which still seems
to linger in this part of the hospital. Through the dust you can read the sign which
patients saw for more than half a century, Domine Salvam, Fac reginam. How many
did it comfort?
Most of the patients are in open
wards, some are in locked ones.
They work some of them —in the
hospital laundries, in the workshops, in
simple industrial therapy. Some just
wander around. The dormitories are
clean, the beds are made, the floors are
scrubbed. It is very quiet. Inside Bay-
view House the atmosphere is different.
For one thing there is far more talk.
Patients talk to one another. They talk
to the nurses. They talk about their
illness. They make a noise. In the large
room where the daily large group
therapy session is conducted, a patient
is screaming at a nurse.
“You torment me. You do nothing
but torment me. Leave me alone.”
Another patient shouts: “Mind your
own business.”
A woman speaks in fits of incoherency.
Obscenities and insults from two women
as they abuse each other. “I’d like to
stab you in the back.”
A man protests. The woman is
violent: “You are a queer a dirty
queer. I have been in for five years and
you’ve been here for ten days and
already you’re trying to take the place
over.”
Another woman, blonde and twenty.
Carefully spoken like a primary-school
teacher. Suddenly she advances on the
screaming woman and tells her to shut
up. “We are all angry sometimes. Why
don’t you control your bad language?”
Viler obscenities now. The other
woman rushes screaming from her chair.
She will kill herself. She will throw her-
self out of the window. From a third
woman, curled up foetus-like in her
chair, comes the advice: “Don’t bother to
kill yourself. It’s not worth it.”
Finally a male nurse restrains the
woman. The blonde appeals for calm.
She has a bandage on her leg. It covers
a wound where doctors gave her the last
intravenous injection to keep her alive.
She has attempted suicide six times.
The session ends. Few of the nurses
or doctors have spoken during the hour.
Not all the patients have spoken.
Dr L. Medew explains that Bayview
House is part of an experiment to see
how far the idea's 7 first practised in Fraser
House, at North Ryde Psychiatric Hos-
pital, work with this group of 72 patients,
most of them chronic schizophrenics,
who have been in hospitals for an
average time of eight and a half years.
By the end of nine months he hopes that
something like 60 will have gone home.
Cured?
“The term ‘cure’ in psychiatry is an
unsatisfactory term, and in fact I feel
we should only talk about readjustment.
And if we think in these terms we would
feel justified in treating the patient and
returning him to his environment not
cured, but at least readjusted. This would
mean that the patient would need con-
tinued treatment, and we offer patients
and relatives out-patient group care.
Further, we would take them back in a
crisis to allow them and the family to
readjust to this particular problem.”
Why can schizophrenics and psycho-
paths help one another by shouting
abuse when psychiatrists alone seem to
be unable to help them? Is it not the
blind leading the blind?
Dr Medew points out that while any
one of the patients may be partly or
even totally cut off from reality, a group
of them do have a fund of reality to
draw on larger than they can have on
their own.
FRIDAY morning at Fraser House.
North Ryde is certainly more
modern than Callan Park. The lawns are
more expansive, but it is still set back
away from the main streets. Madness is
not for suburbia —at least we do not
want to see it too closely.
A nurse whispers to me: “This is not
a very deep inter-acting session.”
A 16-year-old girl, pink and plump,
has complained about her mother to the
patient who reads out complaints. When
she can, the mother comes to the large
group therapy sessions. Her daughter
sits and knits. “I don’t care what you do
any more and I don't care what I do
to you. You’re always working in the


This is Nikon
This is Nikon
the way skilled amateur
photographers like Donald Campbell,
holder of the world land and
.-water speed records, go into action
with a 135 mm telephoto lens.
Campbell describes the quality and
Versatility of his Nikon equipment
as '•‘superlative”. A Nikon
35 mm single lens reflex camera and
lenses provide the creative
Confidence necessary for great pictures
—.every time.
This is Nikon
the way Research Photographers
at Australia’s largest teaching
hospital employ it for clinical
and micro-photography.
With this Nikon equipment
the photo-researcher can
transform the air we breathe
into an awe-inspiring spectacle.
Nikon’s 29 lenses and endless array
of attachments are designed to
solve the most difficult
photographic jobs.
EJ
■
*,
This is Nikon
the way Sydney Daily Mirror
sports photographers use it to record
those one-in-a-million shots. ‘
With a Nikon zoom lens (200 to
600 mm) and a Nikon motor drive
attachment which allows 4
pictures to be taken every second.
Nikon handles any assignment from
sports to Royal Tours with ease.
No wonder more photo-journalists
use Nikon than any other
35 mm camera.
Nikon
ihe world’s greatest
photographic recording system
Distributed by
Maxwell Photo-Optics Pty, Ltd. s
Head Office
Market Street, Sydney, N.S.TYi,
Please send me full details about Nikon photographic equipment.
NAME :
ADDRESS ' "" ' "
" " STATE
Mail to Nikon, Box No. 4452 , G.P.0., Sydney; Box No. 1969 R, G.P.0. , Melbourne; Box No.
539 H) G.P.0., Brisbane; Box No. 1488 L, G.P.O. s Adelaide; Box No. 1507, G.P.0., Perth,


AUTHORISED
NIKON FRANCHISE
RETAILERS
NEW SOUTH WALES
• Bei'nie Silver Pty. Ltd., 99 King St.,
Sydney. • Camera Supply Co. Pty. Ltd.,
227 George St., Sydeny. • Dixons Photo-
graphic Pty. Ltd., 57 Market St., Sydney.
• Douglass Baglin Pty. Ltd., 100 Pacific
Highway, St. Leonards. • Elton Ward
Studios, 87 Argyle St., Parramatta.
• George’s Camera Store, 207 Elizabeth
St., Sydney. • Glen-Dor Camera Centre,
43 The Corso, Manly. • Goodman Bros.
Optical & Photo Supplies Pty. Ltd., 20
Hunter St., Sydney. • Grace Bros. Pty.
Ltd., 229 Oxford St., Bondi Junction.
• International Camera Store Pty. Ltd.,
31 Castlereagh St., Sydney. 0 Jock Leate
Photographies, 199 Beamish St., Camp-
sie; and 189 Forest Road, Hurstville.
• John Border Photographies Pty. Ltd.,
175 Liverpool St., Sydney. • John Early
Camera Pty. Ltd., 1 Bruce St., Crows
Nest. • John Stone Photo & Record
Centre, St. Ives Shopping Centre, St.
Ives. • Newcastle Photographic Co. Pty.
Ltd., 172 Hunter St., Newcastle. • Novae
Camera Company, 277 Hunter St., New-
castle. • Canberra Photographic Spe-
cialists, Garema Arcade, Garema Place,
Canberra, A.C.T. » D. L. Dwyer Photo-
graphic Equipment, The Lawns, Manuka,
Canberra, A.C.T. • Camera & Tape
Recorder Industries, Piccadilly Centre,
Crown St., Wollongong. • Foto Sup-
plies, Dean St., Albury. • Taree Photo-
graphies, Valley Fair, Taree. 0 Gissings
Pharmacy, 6 Fitzmaurice St., Wagga.
VICTORIA
• A.V.S. Australia, 58 Russell St., Mel-
bourne. • Andrews Camera Stores, 69
Elizabeth St., Melbourne. • Bentleigh
Camera Centre, 473 Centre Road, Bent-
leigh. • Buckley & Nunn Ltd., 306
Bourke St., Melbourne. • Foy & Gib-
son Ltd., 246 Bourke St., Melbourne.
• Goble’s Camera Centre, 159 Barkly St.,
Footscray. • Herbert Small (Vic.) Pty.
Ltd., 259 Collins St., Melbourne.
• McKeon’s Camera Centre, 275 Lonsdale
St., Dandenong. • Mordialloc Photo-
graphic & Optical Service, Nepean High-
way, Mordialloc. • Myer Emporium
Ltd., 314 Bourke and 275 Lonsdale Sts.,
Melbourne. • N.A.V.A. Pty. Ltd., 286 Vic-
toria St., Nth. Melbourne. • Peter Fox
Camera Store Pty. Ltd., 243 Collins St.,
Melbourne. • R. H. Wagner & Sons Pty.
Ltd., 43 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
• Rosier Camera Store, 31 Camberwell
Rd.. Camberwell. • Camera House, 117
Little Malot St., Geelong. 0 Porter
Photographies, 89 Ryrie St., Geelong.
• Varloine Camera Store, 297 Wyndham
St., Shepparton. • Ern Cameron Camera
Store, 230 Gray St„ Hamilton. • Southern
Cross Cameras, 8 Lower Plaza, 119 Bourke
St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
« Camera Supply Co. Pty. Ltd., 110
Flinders St., Adelaide. • Cox-Foys, Cen-
tral Rundle St.. Adelaide. • John
Mack Pty. Ltd., 13, 14 and 8 Bowman
Arcade, Adelaide. • Laubman & Pank
Pty. Ltd., 62 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
9 H. Nancarrow Naphco, High St.,
Strathalbyn. • Whyalla Camera Centre,
Whyalla.
QUEENSLAND
• Dixons Photographic Pty. Ltd., 90-92
Queen St., Brisbane. • Don Mclnnes
Photographies Pty. Ltd., 203 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane. • Angus Smith Photographic
Supplies, 270 Flinders St., Townsville.
TASMANIA
« Ash Bester & Co. Ltd., 102 Elizabeth
St., Hobart. 0 John Vallance Photo-
graphies, 115 a Liverpool St., Hobart.
0 Shepherd’s Photographic Store, 28 Cat
and Fiddle Arcade, Hobart. 0 Graphic
Arts, 13 Centreway Arcade, Launceston,
e Lloyd Campbell’s Camera Store, 33-
35 Wilson St., Burnie.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
0 Pex-th Photographies Pty. Ltd., 66 Bar-
rack St., Perth.
Nikon
the world’s greatest
photographic recording system
shop. Always the shop. I'm 16 and old
enough to look after myself.” The
mother does not sit next to the daughter.
Between them sits another patient. They
do not talk to one another but to the
group. Later, while I wait in the office
to see the director of Fraser House, Dr
Neville Yeomans, the 16-year-old girl
comes in and kisses her mother goodbye.
Fraser House, in the words of its
director, “is a transitional community
for temporary inhabitants”. Here there
is no hierarchy of medical superin-
tendent, senior psychiatrists, junior psy-
chiatrists, ward sisters, nurses, and
patients at the bottom of the hierarchy.
It is an attempt at a miniature democracy
where at the therapy sessions the direc-
tor may come in for as much criticism
and obscene abuse as any of the patients
and nurses. From the nurses’ point of
view it is a new experience to be so
directly and often so intensely involved
in therapy. Their personalities undergo
change, too. From being the “warders”
and the “screws” in other sections of a
psychiatric hospital the patients begin to
regard them as “nurses”. The rules
of the community are worked out in
common, and, therefore, are constantly
subject to change as the group changes its
membership. Of course there is no segre-
gation, there is no electric-shock therapy,
there are no locked doors.
Above all there is talk. Although
patients find it hard at first after years of
being told, “Try and get your mind off
it,” and, “Don’t think about yourself so
much”, they do begin to talk, however
slowly. A seriously withdrawn patient
may sometimes take months—more
often it is a matter of days or weeks.
What is distinctive about Fraser House
(and in the future Bayview House) is
not so much these aspects of the thera-
peutic community the last decade
having seen the gradual spread and appli-
cation of the non-authoritarian approach
in many hospitals—but the emphasis on
treating the whole family.
For, according to Dr Yeomans, the
new horizon in psychiatry lies over in the
direction of family therapy accepting
that the psychic breakdown of any in-
dividual is so bound up with his psychic
environment that treating the patient
only makes sense if at the same time
one treats his environment, i.e., his
family and his friends. So when the
brilliant but psychopathic lawyer who
embezzles funds, gambles compulsively
and is on the road to alcoholism finally,
after failures in other hospitals and
admission centres, ends up at Fraser
House, his wife and three children go
with him and become part of the larger
therapeutic community.
The range of patients can include
suicidal depressives, homosexuals, schizo-
phrenics, psychopaths, and what are re-
ferrec to as the “criminally insane”. A
woman who murdered her two children
is being treated with her husband’s par-
ticipatijn in the therapy.
Fraser House was the first such unit in
Australia when it started in 1959, and
among the first in the world. Six years
later it is becoming gradually possible to
give some indications of how effective
the then startling, and today only radical,
ideas of Dr Yeomans have worked out
and their degree of acceptance within
psychiatry. Is it really the new horizon
in Australia? The innovatory enthusiasm
which has accompanied the crusade of
intensive family and group therapy
developments in psychiatry always seem
to take on the tone of “crusades” rather
than just “developments” has made
Fraser House unique anywhere in the
world. Units modelling themselves on
Fraser House are already established at
some other Sydney psychiatric centres,
notably at Bayview House in Callan Park
Hospital, and in Victoria Western
Australia. But with the exception of Bay-
view House which is run by Dr Medew
and is only slowly introducing the idea of
families living-in, none go as far as Fraser
House. Again, although there is a grow-
ing number of psychiatrists who are util-
ising ideas learned from the approach of
the therapeutic community, the majority
of them are doing it within a framework
which everywhere in Australia, NSW in-
cluded, is still orientated towards the
mental hospital. Certainly, there has been
a revolution in the humaneness of treat-
ment inside the mental hospitals.
Gone are the walls which surrounded
and isolated the mentally ill from the
world outside. Open door policies are
now widely accepted for most patients.
The use of drugs, say many psychia-
trists, has changed the atmosphere of
hospitals from one of despondency,
gloom and unspeakable decay and misery
to one of cheerfulness, efficiency, activity
and, above all, hope.
But if the “asylum” has given way to
the “mental hospital” or as some prefer
it the “psychiatric hospital”. And the
“lunatic” is now the “patient” the human
being who suffers is still put into an in-
stitution.
One of the most fundamental ideas of
the Fraser House school has been ex-
plaine ' by the American sociologist Erv-
ing Goffman. In a book, significantly
called “Asylums”, Dr Goffman has
argued the thesis that the most important
factor in forming a mental hospital
patient is his institution, not his illness.
The ideas developed by Dr Yeomans
are in most ways his own and have
grown out of his work in Australia. But
they find their place within the third
great stream to gain wide currency in
the psychiatric world—social psychiatry.
The other two streams are the organic


and the Freudian. The organic approach,
rooted deep in general medicine, although
nowadays more eclectic and prepared to
accept anything which works from drugs
to electro-convulsive therapy, is still the
mainstream for psychiatrists in Australia.
A very few, especially in Melbourne,
practise within the Freudian tradition
although heresies are not uncommon.
Dr Yeomans cheerfully admits that
social psychiatry has become a move-
ment in Australia and that he is its
leader although he would probably
qualify this by pointing out in the best
traditions of the therapeutic community
that he is not the movement’s “authori-
tarian” leader but its “socio-emotional”
one.
What then do its advocates claim for
this approach? Dr Yeomans claims a
success rate of 70 per cent with patients
and explains that the majority of the
rest are patients who have been made
too institutional in other places. Zealous
and fervently evangelistic though he is,
Dr Yeomans insists that he wants to be
sure —that more research must be done.
What has been done seems to be support-
ing his views and the work of the Applied
Psychology Unit from the University of
New South Wales who have been in-
vestigating Fraser House is encouraging.
“I am sick and tired of psychiatry
coming up with a wonder cure every
few years. I believe this is the answer,
but I want research to prove it. Every-
thing that has been done seems to support
the view that we are not dealing with a
disease of the mind but a disease of the
life. I don’t think the answer will be
found in the brain but in the life of the
human being, his pathological contacts
and his group environment.” Dr Medew
sums up: “You can see ‘patients’ grow
into ‘human beings’ again.”
At the extremes there are the critics
among staff in mental hospitals who
think, even today, that the work that is
going on at Fraser House and Bayview
House is a kind of Black Mass. Even in
other wards at Callan Park there are
rumors: “Bayview House is a brothel;
all the women patients are on contracep-
tive pills.”
More scientifically the doubters within
the psychiatric profession are waiting for
more convincing evidence. And at the
other extreme there are those who reject
family and group therapy because they
reject anything which seems to be THE
answer in as complex a problem as
mental illness. They agree that it offers
some valuable insights. But for them
psychiatry is still at the stage where
everything that works must be tried, but
not everything that works can be taken
as the kind of ultimate solution which
shuts off other avenues. Dr Yeomans
and his supporters wait, hopefully, to
prove that they have opened up new ones.
AROUND MELBOURNE
The View from the High Rise
Something tall , grey and antiseptic
Once upon a time there were many
fine parts in Melbourne for store
retailing. Flinders Street was good.
Collins Street was good. Elizabeth
Street was splendid and Bourke Street
was marvellous. Alas, now only Bourke
Street is good and the golden strip is
very short from Russell Street to
Elizabeth Street.
The inner city is dying just a little,
bit by bit. Several months back when
the discussion on the proposed Ring
Road was at its height, one architect
remarked: “Why have a Ring Road at
all? The city doesn’t need one. Soon it
will be just a commerce centre, a home
for the broker and
the insurance clerk.”
If anything can be
done by public re-
lations, some people
are trying. Eric
White & Associates
in a cloud of hand-
outs last week an-
nounced the forma-
tion of the Up Town
Association. This is
an organisation de-
signed to get people
excited by the idea
that the area east
of Swanston Street
right up to Spring
Street is a fine, fine
area for money-
making.
Yet the best way
to save Melbourne is
to get people to live there. The retailers
and the planners’ dream would be to
have 500,000 within three miles of the
GPO. Now there are less than 200,000.
Between 1950 and 1961 the number of
people residing between the City Coun-
cil’s boundaries dropped from 101,200
to 76,810.
To get a sensitive understanding of
Melbourne, one must always turn to
football. The inner areas no longer are
any use for recruiting the best young
blood. North Melbourne has fled to
Coburg and St Kilda has gone to Moor-
abbin, events as dramatic to us as the
day the Dodgers forsook Brooklyn.
But the situation is changing, and
changing so rapidly even the Victorian
Football League doesn’t seem to be
aware of what is happening to ancient
suburbs like South Melbourne, Carlton,
Fitzroy, North Melbourne and Prahran.
Take a high view from a building like
the CRA in Collins Street and you will
notice that the city is being ringed by
towers, 15 to 20 storeys high, in grey
concrete. Some of them are not over
lovely, small window after small window,
precisely one above the other, row after
row of balconies, like so many drawers
one would like to push back in, but
these are the biggest apartment houses in
the country.
Many a family that was living in a
slum last year has scored rather well.
For example, the lucky ones have 20-
storey penthouses for £5 ss. with a view
out across the bay. For that sort of treat-
ment the nice people are paying £35,000
up for their Robin
Boyd-designed apart-
ments in Domain
Road, South Yarra.
Where are they?
There’s the 15-storey
Emerald Hill Estate
in South Melbourne,
the Horace Petty
Estate in Prahran
where three 12-
storey blocks are a-
building. Then there
are the three estates
in the West Hope-
toun Ward of the
Melbourne City
Council the 20-
storey Hotham Es-
tate at North Mel-
bourne, the 8-storey
John Holland Estate
at Kensington and
the 20-storey block Debney’s Meadow at
Flemington.
There’s the Carlton Estate destined to
be the biggest of them all, which already
has two 20-storey blocks approaching
completion, just by the Melbourne
General Cemetery. Another £3 million
project is starting in Fitzroy, and in Park
Street, South Melbourne, work is start-
ing on a 31-storey block. This will be
one of the tallest public housing projects
in the world.
There are many objects: slum clear-
ance, quick housing, and the replanning
of inner areas. The Victorian Housing
Commission started originally as a slum
clearance authority back in 1918. The
war interrupted many altruistic ideas and
in the first 17 years it reclaimed only
nine acres. Now the score, mostly
achieved in the past 10 years, is 206
acres cleared and 110 acres already fully
developed. The Housing Minister, Lind-


say Thompson, has just produced a
booklet on all this. Without being too
unkind, it points out subtly in one para-
graph that Melbourne is the only city
where anything is really happening. Here
are his figures for slum clearance in
Sydney: “The total area that has been
tackled is 74 acres; 35 of these acres
have been redeveloped and construction
is proceeding on another 10 acres. There-
fore it will be seen that spectacular pro-
gress has been made in Victoria . .
Lindsay Thompson, 41, BA, BEd., a
former dux and captain of Caulfield
Grammar, is young, ambitious and in-
credibly enthusiastic. It hasn’t been easy
talking Melbourne into its crop of con-
crete towers. The private home and
garden is the beloved all-Australian
dream. He has produced figures that
Victoria has the highest home-owner rate
in the world. It runs like this: Victoria
75 per cent, Queensland 73, SA 71,
NSW 71, WA 70, Tas. 70, NT 32, and
ACT 29. Greece has 71, Canada 67,
USA 61.9 and so it goes in a descending
scale down to UK 38.1.
So the dream appears to be stronger
here than anywhere. When asked and
there are 13,000 on the waiting list
only five per cent of applicants want to
live in a flat; but 86 per cent ask for a
house; the rest, of course, don’t know.
“But what are you to do?” says Lind-
say Thompson. “It costs on an average
£60,000 to buy and clear an acre in
Carlton, South Melbourne or some-
where. It has cost us up .to £85,000.
Don’t you see, this means we are paying-
around £16,000 just for each building
block? Our only choice is to go up.
Around here the only thing that’s cheap
is air. So we’re experimenting all the
time with 12, 15, 20, 31 storey blocks.”
There’s some Housing Commission
jargon for all this. They call it the
“High Rise”. High rise does this to a
district. At Carlton there were 40 people
to the acre, 60-70 per cent of the site
covered. When finished there will be
160 to 200 to the acre and less than 20
per cent of the site covered.
The story is the same in most places.
The‘Hotham Estate area in North Mel-
bourne was a slum with 439 people
living in 159 houses. Now they have
1470 people living in 374 units.
The Hotham Estate is known to the
locals as “Snobs’ Hill”. The Housing
Commission left just two of the old
buildings on the site. They are at
opposite corners. You might call them
the arcing points of society. In the left
corner, the Hotel Kensington. In the
right corner, St Alban’s Church of
England.
There are nine acres, and buildings
cover only 14 acres, leaving an oasis of
well-kept green grass in the centre. The
low buildings are raised on pillars and
four-storey walk-up. The people who
live in the top flats actually have to
walk up five flights, and they know
they’ve been walking when they get
there.
“We don’t intend to repeat these,” says
Lindsay Thompson. The tower is coldly
concrete with 160 two-bedroom flats. It
looks straight down on the North Mel-
bourne football ground, a superb view,
as if the whole place were built as a
grandstand. It’s one of life’s tragic little
ironies that North Melbourne football
team moved out because of lack of
population. Now the population is
coming back, is poised to look, but the
team’s gone.
Actually for the money, up to £5 ss.
a week, life in these flats is pretty darned
good. The conditions of entry are that
the breadwinner must not earn more
than £25 a week, and a certain amount
of stamina for remaining on a waiting
list. Once in you’re made. It doesn’t
matter how much you earn, you’ve
passed the qualification.
Originally the rules were strict, no pets
and no children in high rise blocks. The
no-pets rule is still enforced, although
the occasional budgie gets through and
there are strong rumors of the odd
undercover cat existing here and there.
Peddling the Pill
no-children rule was much tougher.
“How could they maintain it?” I
was told by a young father. “The Hous-
ing Commission would need to have a
little booth there by the lift to peddle the
pill. There were a couple of babies born
within the first couple of months.”
The fear, of course, was that some
child would tumble off a balcony up
around the 15th floor. But now they
realise the effect would be precisely the
same if the child fell from the third or
the fourth.
Then there are car spaces down below.
Rent for a car space costs 3/6 a week.
Of course, there are problems of
adjustment. The Rev. Michael Challen of
St Alban’s lives in a walk-up apartment.
He says: “When a child grows up in a
suburban backyard there are certain re-
strictions. Here a child meets life at once.
Immediately he walks out the back door
he is confronted with an incredible range
of types ... It might be a good thing.
“For the mother who lives in the tower
it's hard. I call it the pigeon loft. She
feels isolated from her children. She
doesn’t know what they're doing down
there. So rather than let them go un-
supervised, often she’ll keep them locked
up in the flat and that’s not good. There’s
a whole problem here of boredom and
what to do with leisure. There's no-
where to tinker, nowhere to dig, and a lot
of the people are not capable of think-
ing through the problem for themselves.”
The manager at Hotham is Douglas
Hutcheson. He insists that they’re a
happy family. “Look here, you couldn’t
get 98 per cent of ’em out of here with
a barrel of dynamite. They know when
they’re on a good thing. In 18 months
only eight families have gone and most
of those went just because they could
afford something better. We have 30 per
cent Australian, the rest came from
England or the Continent. The English
are the best tenants. That’s because
they're used to flat life. They understand
it. Australians are the worst. Yes, they
stick to this Australian dream of your
own home.”
Lindsay Thompson feels that the
Housing Commission is doing the best
job possible with the available money.
This comes from various sources. The
Melbourne City Council contributes with
a gift of £lOO,OOO a year. This is good
business. The more the Commission does
in slum clearance, the more the Council
gets back in rates. The other councils,
like Fitzroy, Prahran and South Mel-
bourne, are contributing on a similar
basis. Then £9 million a year comes
from the Federal Government in loan
money payable back in 53 years; 45
per cent goes to the country.
The hope always has been that as the
Housing Commission cleaned up area
after area, the old suburbs like South
Melbourne, North Melbourne and such
would pick up in tone. Indeed, for
heaven's sake, the Commission is even
changing the name of Debney’s Paddock
to Debney’s Meadow. And with the
gathering of tone it was felt that private
enterprise would be happy to assist with
slum clearance. It hasn't happened. The
only big project, by Master Builders
Associated Redevelopments Ltd, is in
North Melbourne. Here the Housing
Commission provided the land at almost
half price and Master Builders put up
300 flats.
Yet unquestionably the character and
style of Melbourne is changing, from the
old terrace house to something tall, grey
and antiseptic.
Would I live in one? I don’t know,
those concrete balconies seem a little
over chilly. But wait, there is one apart-
ment that I covet. Flat 201 at Debneys.
It is 3-bedroom, five guineas a week, plus
12/6 service charge. In 201 you get views
on three sides. One bedroom looks back
towards the city, giving that incredible
new skyline. While you're shaving in the
bathroom you can look out across the
docks of Port Melbourne and across to
the You Yangs. From another bedroom
and the living-room you can watch the
horses coming down the straight at Flerp4
ington. Marvellous. And at night time/you
get high rise views that are out of this
world. It would do me.
BATMAN


OVERSEAS
SPIES
Positions
Vacant
J. W. VASSALL
By a
Special Correspondent
R. G. THOMPSON
IT has been a bumper season for cap-
tured spies. Britons Frank Bossard
and Sgt Percy Allen and American
Robert G. Thompson were sentenced
for espionage which netted them respec-
tively over £5OOO, £65 and $1700; small
rewards for either long years in prison or
betrayal of any State secrets worth steal-
ing. Espionage, contrary to romance, is
not a lucrative calling.
The Russians favor three main classes
of agent: (1) Professional, generally
Russian-born aces, like Gordon Lons-
dale (arrested in the Portland naval base
conspiracy in 1961, sentenced to 25 years
and later exchanged for Greville
Wynne-— much smaller British fry). (2)
Politically sympathetic recruits (atom spy
Klaus Fuchs or probably George
Blake, sentenced in 1961 to a record 42
years). (3) Suborned or blackmailed
amateurs (William Vassall, put away
for 18 years in 1962; homosexuality is the
usual weapon of blackmail).
Bossard plainly belongs to the third
category. His hobby, collecting old coins,
was convenient. The Russians could both
supply Bossard with rare coins as part
payment and use numismatics as cover
for Bossard's contacts with one of their
agents. Something evidently went wrong
here. Coins were dropped in favor of
“dead-letter boxes” in trees and drain-
pipes. (Amateurish-sounding Orient Ex-
press techniques of this sort are widely
used. Master agent Lonsdale passed
messages via drawing pins stuck under-
neath lavatory doors in a Lyons Corner
House.)
Did the Russians get quality? One
thing seems certain: Bossard at no time
had access to information about nuclear
warheads or rocket projects involving
other countries —including the AJI6B
Anglo-French missile. Files on both these
matters are believed to be kept under
special security arrangements, behind
bars, in a place where Bossard could not
have been admitted. Nor is there any
evidence that Bossard was being
“groomed'’ as a master spy. He wasn't
good enough; although he was worth well
over £5OOO and was doubtless paid much
more.
Nabbing a spy like Bossard is a success
for the Security Service (popularly called
SGT P. ALLEN
G. A. LONSDALE
MIS and “the sister service'’ of Ml 6,
the Intelligence Service whose job is to
steal the enemy's secrets). Mls's officers
never make arrests themselves. They con-
duct an inquiry—usually, as in Bossard’s
case, by painstakingly amassing details
until the facts have been established.
Then Scotland Yard's Special Branch
moves in to make the arrest.
The main difference between the
British set-up and the huge American
combination of Central Intelligence
Agency and FBI is lack of publicity and
scrupulous separation from politics. The
names of DG (the Director-General of
Ml 5) and C (the controller of MI6) are
kept secret to save them from embarrass^
merit, rather than enemy attentions. By
tradition their files are at all times avail-
able to the Prime Minister, but not
generally to other Ministers.
But there is no feeling in the two
Services that Harold Wilson has acted
improperly in delegating some of his
responsibility for security to assiduous
watch-dog George Wigg. For one thing,
the Security Services are conscious of the
disadvantages in a democracy of their
present total incognito: false publicity,
myth-making, no formal relations with
public _and Parliament. They are more
aware of the advantages in these respects
which the Americans gain from having
a shop window.
Since late 1962 six Americans have
been arrested for selling secrets to Russia.
Canada, apparently regarded by Russia as
America's security soft underbelly, has
got harder. The spy plot uncovered re-
cently had two purposes —to estab-
lish an espionage ring in Canada and the
United States and to get industrial in-
formation, which Russian spies in
Canada oddly appear to prefer to the
military variety. The plot was headed by
a commercial attache at the over-staffed
Soviet Embassy in Ottawa, assisted by a
supposed chancery clerk.
The year-old conspiracy was penetra-
ted from the start by Royal Canadian
Mounted Police counter-espionage. The
Russians approached a naturalised Cana-
dian in private industry. The approach in-
volved threats to relatives still behind the
Iron Curtain. But the man tipped off the
RC-MP and acted under its instructions —
the police even audited his expenditure
of several thousand dollars of Russian
money. '—
The Russians demanded technical in-
formation on the electronics industry,


which may have been related to defence.
They also wanted their recruit to compro-
mise other Canadians, including female
Government employees. Several other
Canadians co-operated with the police in
pretending to set up a spy ring and pro-
vide information. This enabled the Cana-
dians to make a lengthy study of Soviet
espionage methods before the Mounties
moved in to get their men.
Intelligence or “evaluated information”
in the jargon is in fact obtained from the
enemy or “the opposition” not so much
by the agent as by the reader. On one
estimate, 20 per cent of all intelligence
information comes from an endless, pain-
ful scrutiny of published matter. The
Russians presumably do better still, since
even an American aircraft corporation’s
advertisement may give away information
that would cost a Russian citizen his
head.
Western agents also rank the Russians
as by far the most effective spies in the
field, with the advantage that Russians
can live as emigres in New York or Cali-
fornia, while the reverse can hardly be
managed in Omsk. (The Israelis have the
next highest espionage reputation; every
touchy political situation in the world
produces its own intelligence and counter-
intelligence exchanges. Free-lance spies,
selling in the open market, are still in
business. But their information gets a
lower reliability rating. The top rating
goes to photographed documents, known
in the trade as “leaks”.)
The spy world, however, is changing, in
manners and methods. The US is be-
lieved to put up about one spy satellite
a week, expendable space agents which
eject a film pack over Hawaii, to be
scooped up by an aircraft. The packs
are self-destructive, containing a capsule
which destroys them if they land in the
sea, where a Russian vessel might find
them. The Russians have also been
making several unannounced satellite
launchings. The Central Intelligence
Agency believes that Soviet space mis-
sions are strictly competitive.
Both sides in the Cold War have long
tacitly recognised their mutual interest
in a measured dose of successful spying
the “controlled” sort carried out by
diplomats and service attaches under close
surveillance. It provides a stabilising
factor in the military situation, a guard,
for example, against surprise ground
attack. The civilised touch to espionage
is becoming more widespread as a result
of the new fashion of exchanges Lons-
dale for Wynne and Russian Colonel
Abel for U-2 pilot Gary Pqwers. Both
the Russians, who never used to admit to
spying at all, and the Americans recently
signally marked this change. Abel, pub-
licly, and Powers, discreetly, were decora-
ted by the Governments for which they
had spied, (ofns)
The Monsoon Offensive
By ANTHONY CAVE BROWN
Vietcong campaign season
the imminent monsoons which
ground bombers and translate the
Mekong padi into a morass has
opened ahead of schedule. The South
Vietnamese government has thrown all
its reserves into action 50 miles south
of the giant US air base at Da Nang.
The heaviest casualties of the second
Indo-China war are reported. Two
regular divisions of North Vietnamese
troops have struck in concert with the
60,000 hardcore Vietcong.
And the attack is being mounted as
Australia’s First Battalion of the Royal
Australian Regiment nears the Indo-
China coastline aboard HMAS Sydney;
as a New Zealand artillery battery is
readied for combat; as the US gears
itself for large-scale conflict; and as the
prospects of Sino-Soviet military invol-
vement with rocketry and troops ap-
pears more certain.
The Vietcong offensive was expected
under cover of the fierce summer mon-
soon storms which strike Indo-China in
June storms which will dilute and
possibly negate the one war-winning
card the Americans have in their al-
ready massive armory: absolute control
of the air. In fact, cloud and rain-
storms which bring operating heights
down to 500 feet are already hamper-
ing air strikes as North Vietnamese in
battalion strength are reported stream-
ing down the Ho Chi-minh trail, down
the Laotian border, and massing in the
provinces of Kontum, in the Central
Highlands, and Binh Dinh, on the
coast. The main Communist force is
estimated now to be between 80,000
and 100,000 men including the
entire 325th Division of the North
Vietnamese army.
With the belief that Hanoi will re-
main deaf to any peace overtures until
after the monsoon offensive, the US is
preparing to send in at least 15,000
more fighting troops. The force, the
equivalent of a full US army division,
is expected to land by July, bringing
the total of US forces committed to the
war to 61,000 men. A further 9000
combat troops are expected to arrive
within 40 days, bringing the planned
total in the immediate future to around
70,000 men.
Washington’s intentions, following
President Johnson’s policy speech de-
claration of May 13, appear to include
a willingness to accept a major ground
war, and the call-up of the Marine re-
serve for deployment, if necessary, to
Asia. The First Marine Division, based
in California, is to move shortly to
Okinawa, the United States’ main
centre for strategic operations in Asia,
to fill the vacuum created by the com-
mitment of the Third Marine Division
to the battlefield around the immense
air base of Da Nang on the coast of
Central Vietnam. In this area North
Vietnamese and Vietcong have massed
in divisional or more strength and out-
number South Vietnamese forces by
three battalions to two.
Informed reports reaching Canberra
indicate that President Johnson may
soon create a new Fourth Marine
Division from the US reserve, under
powers available for such a contingency
as an Asian land war. While the Third
Division girds itself against the harsh
surprise attacks which seem imminent,
aerial reconnaissance has detected the
movement to the 17th Parallel of the
North Vietnam 304th Infantry Division,
and its movement across the frontier
seems a logical concomitant of Hanoi’s
present determination.
The Vietcong are better trained and
equipped, more experienced than the
Vietminh who fought the French. They
are almost wholly armed with Sino-
Soviet weaponry, including rockets and
artillery. London reports, semi-official
but usually reliable, state that Red'
China has begun a vast movement of
troops, rockets, guns and ammunition
towards the Vietnamese frontier. These
reports are partially confirmed by US
aerial intelligence flights and leakages
to Hong Kong-based correspondents.
The resumption of air attacks against
North Vietnamese targets after the
peace lull is taken to indicate that Presi-
dent Johnson is prepared to intensify
the war, and perhaps to accept a
widening of the war, to enforce an
independent State in South Vietnam
even if it means committing many army
divisions to the conflict. The US is be-
lieved to have the rear echelon capa-
bility to handle at least eight such divi-
sions, already in South Vietnam.
Furthermore, the US is about to beef
up its air force (estimated at 800 planes
of all types) with a complete Marine
air wing.
Yet, with all this quickening LIS in-
volvement, it is clear that US commit-
ment in its present and anticipated
strength is but a finger in the dyke.
Some informed military sources state
that at least 200,000 US combat troops
will be necessary to enforce the mili-
tary solution which seems the only way
out of this hideously murderous war.
The clouds gathering over the Mekong
Delta seem ominous indeed.


■m
»,• rmM
; - '■ / n
Ik s s
:
*:■: •
P
Ms
V-
•**
a r y ¥
l#*ae
**- , Jr \
*;
§:« «
V. Jf.
mm
ternm
A
fMrniMd
is ne
:i2lfg
IglSilii
k
..." i
\ *
Men who guide the destinies
of the world wear
THE ROLEX "DAY-DATE"^
Most remarkable achievement in watch-making, the Rolex
Oyster Perpetual “Day-Date.” Available only in 18-ct. gold
or platinum, with matching “President” bracelet.
Like all Rolex Chronometers, every “Day-Date” is now
awarded the highest distinction of the Swiss Institutes
for Official Chronometer Tests, the mention ‘Especially
good results.’ Its superlative accuracy is protected by the
famous Rolex Oyster case, made in Geneva by Swiss
craftsmen and guaranteed 100% waterproof, and its move-
ment is self-wound by the Perpetual rotor. The date and
the day of the week, written in full, change instantaneously
every midnight.
THE ROLEX WATCH COMPANY LIMITED (Founder: H. WikdorJ), geneva, Switzerland
SYDNEY: ANGUS & COOTE, 500 GEORGE STREET MELBOURNE: DUNKLINGS, 313 BOURKE STREET PERTH I LINDSAYS, 655 HAY STREET
BRISBANE: MACKAYS, 9 ADELAIDE STREET


Rolex watches
You know their names as you know
your own. You know their faces
from a thousand newspaper and
magazine articles. You have seen
them and heard their voices on
newsreels and on your television
screen. Their actions and decisions
influence the pattern of our lives.
We cannot mention their names,
or show pictures of them. It would
not be fitting to do so, for they
include royalty, the heads of states,
great service commanders. But we
invite you to look carefully at the
next pictures that you see of them,
at their wrists as well as their faces
and clothes. You will notice that
in almost every case they wear a
wrist-watch. That watch will most
likely have been made by Rolex
of Geneva.
We are proud of the service given
by Rolex watches to so many
eminent men throughout the world.
It is scarcely necessary to point
out that the performance of these
watches is, in the highest degree,
accurate and dependable.
w
R O L EX
A landmark in the history of
Time measurement
China in Africa
Lots of guns, a little butter
By T. B. MILLAR
The second Afro-Asian conference,
due to begin in Algiers on June
29, will be very different from
the first held in Bandung in 1955, and
not least in the status and activities of
the representatives of the Chinese
People's Republic. At Bandung, Chou
En-lai exuded affability, moderation,
even a certain respectability under Mr
Nehru’s patronage. But Mr Nehru is
dead and his patronage long since dis-
carded. [“Who did he think he was,”
Chou unkindly said of Nehru in Pakis-
tan last year, “leading me around (at
Bandung) like a performing bear!”]
And the Chinese now seek to present an
image not of moderation, but of revolu-
tionary dynamism. This is intended to
appeal especially to Africans, for Peking
is bent on either capturing the leader-
ship or determining
the direction of the
forces of revolution,
“anti - colonialism”,
nationalism and
Communism in
Africa.
Until Bandung,
China left the Soviet
Union to promote
Communism i n
Africa. Her own
first diplomatic ex-
cursion into the
continent was by a
cultural agreement
with Egypt in May,
1955. The ideologi-
cal dispute with the
Soviets, which pub-
licly began when Khrushchev denounced
Stalin at the twentieth Party Congress in
1956, provided a reason for separate
diplomacy everywhere, including Africa.
Later that year Suez provided an oppor-
tunity for initiative, which was utilised by
making a timely loan to Egypt. Thus be-
gan an intensive and extensive campaign
of diplomacy, propaganda, and economic
and military aid to established govern-
ments and rebel and opposition organisa-
tions.
A radio barrage which started in 1956
steadily increased in power and cover-
age until it now can be picked up clearly
throughout Africa, and totals 110 broad-
casting hours per week, in English,
French, Portuguese, Swahili, Arabic
and Hausa, as well as Cantonese and
Mandarin for the benefit of the pockets
of Chinese wh6 live in the towns of
eastern, southern and central Africa.
The tone is stridently anti-West, less
stridently but openly anti-Soviet. There
is continuing emphasis on race, with the
Chinese identifying themselves with
Africans as colored people—“your blood
brothers in the struggle”. Any racial
incident in Notting Hill, New York, or
Alabama receives full coverage, although
positive actions, such as attempts to
improve the situation and enforce the
rights of Negroes, are somehow over-
looked.
As far as can be seen, most of this
propaganda is beamed from Radio
Peking stations in western China, al-
though use may be made of Albania and
is made of Zanzibar and Congo (Braz-
zaville). Radio is only one part of the
propaganda campaign. Books, news-
papers, magazines and leaflets, often in
the local language, are distributed widely,
either free or at
greatly reduced
costs. A “New York
Times” report from
Burundi last year,
prior to the Chinese
ouster from that
country, stated that
a well-printed, vio-
lently anti-Western
weekly in French
called “Peking In-
formation” was be-
ing airmailed to
Bujumbura and the
hinterland fro nj
China. The cost of
postage alone was
$1.25 per copy, but
annual subscription,
postage prepaid, could be bought for 71
US cents (Bd.). A subscriber who in-
duced someone else to take out a sub-
scription was presented with a hand-
some colored calendar. A second sub-
scription brought a Chinese scroll; a
third a lavish desk diary.
This is not the pattern everywhere,
as it would be too expensive; and
Burundi was a special case, providing
for a time the easiest method of access
to the Congo. Nevertheless, it is an
example of the kind of concentrated
effort put in on special target countries.
Other non-diplomatic forms of influence,
often crude and blatant, are used ex-
tensively. Personal bribery is the most
common, and its nature and extent will
depend on the positions of the recipient.
Beads may be given to the wife of a
junior official, while an important func-
tionary may receive sets of books, furni-
ture, transistor radios, or direct cash.


JET THE DAYTIME WAY TO EUROPE
TAKE A
SINGAPORE
m
m
m
X
m
i -i-s
W
W : f.:?
i "'
? - ' as
WBSSSSS
AND THE WONDERFUL BOAC
vcu®
1
Experienced travellers are welcoming this new
daytime way to Europe. Jet BOAC 707 by day
to Singapore; fly on refreshed next morning by
day to Europe and the UK by the superb BOAC
VC 10. (Ask for a VC 10 flight between London
and New York or San Francisco, too.)
For full details of BOAC’s daily Rolls-Royce jet
services from Australia, and the facilities of the
BOAC world network, talk to your Travel Agent,
BOAC, or Qantas (BOAC’s General Sales Agents).
ROUS-ROYCE JETS
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH
AIR-INDIA, QANTAS AND AIR NEW ZEALAND
98.101 hi
9X42
CHOOSE
FROM
9 FLIGHTS
A WEEK
TO
D D
m.
w
..
/ sw.'. s
'
-v
||§||&. i
\
imkukkl
m
V<-
For full details of BOAC's daily Rolls-Royce jet
services from Australia, and the facilities of the
BOAC world network, talk to your Travel Agent,
BOAC, or Qantas (BOAC's General Sales Agents).
ALL OVER THE WORLD BOAC TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH
AIR-INDIA, QANTAS AND AIR NEW ZEALAND
9130
9A/101
One senior member of the Kenyan
cabinet is widely believed to have ac-
cepted large sums of money, perhaps as
much as £lOO,OOO. Trips to China, with
red-carpet treatment, are generously
provided. Scholarships to Chinese uni-
versities are not unduly, dependent on
academic qualifications. At present there
are something like 300 African students
in China—not a large figure compared
with the 6000 in Eastern European
countries and about 40,000 in Western
countries, but significant in terms of the
ideological training provided.
Such training is not always welcome.
One Ghanaian medical student, Emman-
uel Elevi, returned home after eighteen
months at Peking University, and wrote
a book about his experiences, entitled
“An African Student in China”. He
complained that the feal purpose of
the medical scholarship was indoctrina-
tion. The standard of medical instruc-
tion was low. Africans such as himself
were given a privileged status, which
made them unpopular with other
students. Chinese “friends” spied on
them. There were attempts to segregate
them, and contact with Chinese girls was
rigidly prohibited. They were called
“black men”, scorned for being “primi-
tive”, and drew the wrath of officials
when they were unwilling to conform to
party requirements. One cannot place
too much emphasis on a single book of
this kind, but it is a straw in the wind.
The Chinese People’s Republic is now
represented in 16 African States, and has
obtained agreement to establish relations
with several others. (They still face stiff
competition from Nationalist China.)
Where there is a diplomatic mission, it
is customary to find only a fraction of
the Chinese officials on the diplomatic
list, and a mission strength of 50 is not
uncommon. Agricultural, economic,
military or other special advisers or
“technicians” account for the rest. Mali
and Tanzania (Tanganyika and Zanzi-
bar) are reported to have the largest
numbers of Chinese—3oo in the former
and 150-200 in the latter. It does not
take much imagination to picture the
kinds of extra-mural activities they may
be indulging in.
The “Times” last November quoted a
“secret Chinese Army document” dated
April, 1961, apparently intended to ex-
pound Chinese foreign policy for senior
officers. It said: “The centre of the anti-
colonial struggle is Africa. What matters
now is anti-imperialism and anti-colonial-
ism; anti-feudalism is not yet important.
It is time, not for social revolution, but
for national revolution, time for a broad
united front.” Chinese support for revo-
lutionary movements began with Algeria.
The revolutionary regime was recognised
in 1958, and arms, training and finance
were provided.
Training has been provided in guerrilla


warfare for Africans from Cameroon,
Rwanda, Congo (Leopoldville), Tan-
zania and elsewhere. At present there
are believed to be some 20 Kenyans
attending the Wuhan Military Academy.
Chinese are helping to train the army
in Tanzania, and Chinese-trained Congo-
lese are believed to be instructing other
Congolese rebels in a training camp
thoughtfully established at Gambona in
Congo (Brazzaville) by the People’s Re-
public. Chinese have been reported at
the headquarters of the rebels in Kivu
province, and Chinese weapons, ammuni-
tion and military textbooks have been
recovered.
There have been some notable failures
in the stimulation of revolution. Thus,
Dr Moumie's unsuccessful rebellion at
the time of Cameroon’s independence
was supported by China. This and other
activities led to a denunciation of the
People’s Republic by President Ahidjo
at the 18th session of the General
Assembly. In January of this year,
attacks by a small revolutionary force in
Niger were defeated by the Niger army.
Interrogation of prisoners indicated that
the force of some 159 African com-
mandos had been recruited mainly from
Niger emigres in Ghana, had received
military instruction in China and Algeria,
and were financed from China. Warn-
ings of such Chinese activities were
sounded by Presidents Diori of Niger
and Yameogo of Upper Volta at a news
conference at Abidjan, Ivory Coast, on
February 3. Later, they and President
Houphouet-Boigny of Ivory Coast ac-
cused Chinese Communists of teaching
Africans to kill those whose eyes are
open to Chinese danger in Africa.
Although no evidence has been given,
the assassination of the Prime Minister
of Burundi, Mr Pierre Ngendandumwc,
in January, 1965, appears to have been
blamed on China. The large Chinese
mission, which, according to Tung Chi-
ping, an attache who defected to the
West, was the headquarters for Peking's
subversive activities in the Eastern
Congo, was closed, and diplomatic rela-
tions were suspended.
Yet the Chinese have also had their
successes, most notably in Tanganyika
and Zanzibar. The Foreign Minister of
the new Republic of Zanzibar formed
in January, 1964, Sheikh Mohammed
Abdul Rahman (nicknamed “Babu”) had
been, until two days before the coup,
the local correspondent of the New
China News Agency. He is now a Minis-
ter in the combined Government of
Tanzania. China, and East Germany
(apparently representing the interests of
the Soviet Union), have continued to
exercise the dominant foreign influence
in Zanzibar. Both China and the Soviet
Union have shipped arms in, Western
influence has been reduced, and the
American space - tracking station dis-
mantled. In Tanganyika, China is but
one of several countries supplying arms
and advisers.
Dar-es-Salaam is the headquarters of
the most important revolutionary or-
ganisation in the continent the Libera-
tion Committee of Nine (sometimes
called the African Liberation Bureau), set
up by the Organisation for African
Unity. The bureau plans the under-
ground operations and assistance to local
rebels in Mozambique, Angola, Southern
Rhodesia and South Africa. Algeria,
Ghana, the UAR and other countries
supply personnel and equipment, but
the Chinese People’s Republic is now the
chief source of arms.
Trade aid and cultural diplomacy are
exploited by the Chinese, as of course
they are by other major powers. China’s
own shortage of foreign exchange and
technical equipment makes it difficult
for her to compete in economic aid.
Even a selective channelling of aid to
countries likely to be influenced thereby
is not very satisfactory, since both the
Soviet Union and the United States can
almost always outbid her. Just before
Chou En-lai’s visit to Algeria in Decem-
ber, 1963, Moscow gave red-carpet treat-
ment to an Algerian economic delega-
tion, and Mr Khrushchev presented
President Ben Bella w'ith a personal air-
craft. Chinese diplomats in Cairo are
understandably quiet, standing as they
do in the shadow of the Aswan Dam.
Yet, since early 1963 the total amount
of economic aid promised by China to
Africa has risen from £23 million sterling
to £9O million (£lB million going to
Algeria, 16 million to Tanzania, and
£ls million each to Ghana and Kenya).
We do not know how much of this has
actually been received; in some cases
the proportion is very low. Chinese
advisers on irrigation and rice cultiva-
tion have impressed several govern-
ments, providing needed instruction in
relatively simple labor-intensive tech-
niques.
Trade with African countries is cur-
rently about five per cent of all Chinese
international trade (being about two per
cent of Africa's). Africa can do little to
meet China’s economic needs. South
Africa is an increasing source of food-
stuffs, and some reports claim that China
sends arms and explosives to South Africa
in return. One wonders how the African
Liberation Bureau feels about that, and
how Afro-Asian States generally react
to China’s trebling of trade with South
Africa (concurrently with statements that
it was to cease) over the last two or three
years, even though the total is still fairly
small. The great reduction from 1960 in
the supply of Russian oil forced China
to look elsewhere for that vital material.
This largely explains her careful cultiva-
tion of Rumania, and helps to account
for China's intensive efforts in Algeria
and her more conciliatory diplomacy
with France, leading to French recog-
nition of the People's Republic in
January, 1964.
In February, following Chou En-lai’s
visit to Algeria, a delegation of Chinese
oil experts arrived there, coinciding
w'ith an announcement by two French
oil companies of their intention to with-
draw from their Saharan concessions.
The 1963 Chinese loan to Algeria (£lB
million sterling) was to be used in part,
according to the “Peking Review'’, for
road construction in the Sahara. Algerian
oil and/or oil exploration rights, plus
the opportunities provided by road con-
struction operations, thus appear to be
the “mutual benefit” China seeks from
its economic aid to Algeria. Chou made
a second visit to Algeria (and to Egypt)
last month.
What does all this add up to? China
clearly and understandably seeks to in-
crease trade, to purchase raw materials,
to use foreign aid as a diplomatic
weapon, and generally to expand her
influence in Africa. One particular
objective would seem to have been to
muster support for being seated in the
United Nations. Another is to discredit
the West, and upset Western-oriented
governments in Africa—whenever pos-
sible to trouble the waters (as in the
Congo), and then fish in them. Africa has
also become a major battlefield in the
Communists’ own cold war. Although in
a few places Chinese and Soviet interests
may appear to be similar and their
activities mutually supporting, for the
most part the two countries are corn-


petitors, with few holds barred. China’s
propaganda characterises the Russians
as white men, relatively rich, even im-
perialistic, not understanding the prob-
lems of poor, colored, peace-loving
people such as Africans and Chinese are;
and as spent revolutionaries, flabby,
cautious, and heretical from the true
path. The Chinese themselves are the
real revolutionaries, and it is revolution
that Africa still needs. As Chou said
at Mogadishu just before the end of his
African tour in February, 1964: “Revo-
lutionary prospects are excellent through-
out Africa.”
Despite his personal charm and
apparent modesty and moderation,
Chou’s much-quoted statement and the
general Chinese emphasis on continuing
armed struggle must be disquieting to
the majority of African leaders, who
have no desire to see further revolution
in their own countries. A number of
them have disputes with their neighbors,
for whom they are aware China is pre-
pared to supply arms, training and
finance. Many Africans want to be
involved in the Sino-Soviet controversy
even less than in the cold war, and some
are frankly bored with, or resentful at,
the dispute. Some would not mind a
little of the stability, peace and comfort
which seem to accompany embour-
geoisement. The Chinese are gambling
on the belief that such people constitute
a minority, and can be overthrown by
secondary revolutionary movements
properly led, organised and supplied.
China is in fact seeking the leadership
of the whole of the “third world”, a
world she wants to remake in the image
of her own brand of Marxism. A large
conference provides opportunities for the
exercise of leadership. Chinese are
masters at conference diplomacy, at
manipulation, intrigue, horse - trading
and arm-twisting. All these will be
present at Algiers.
But she will by no means have it all
her own way. Already Chinese policies
have been modified in the light of Afro-
Asian objections. Her public attitude to
nuclear disarmament has changed; the
attacks on the United Nations seem to
have been toned down, the seed of a
separate organisation apparently having
fallen on stony ground. In any case
China’s lobbying for membership in the
United Nations was hardly compatible
with attempts to destroy it.
Some Africans may be unsophisticated,
some corruptible because poor; but
others are intelligent, aware, alert poli-
ticians, without any desire to replace a
depreciated European colonialism by a
new Communist or Chinese variety. The
Chinese believe Africa needs a lot of
guns and a little butter. It would be
surprising if many Africans agree with
this priority.
Embracing
Mr Aidit
Onward PKI Soldiers
By EMERY BARCS
For some years now, the Indonesian
Communist Party (PKI) has been
singing the wisdom and glory of
President Sukarno louder and more un-
equivocally than any other Indonesian
political group. “The President,” said PKI
Chairman D. N. Aidit in an interview
last March, “is my teacher, my leader. He
is a great patriot. He is fighting against
imperialism more than the leaders of
socialist countries. The other parties meet
him often. But we are mentally closer to
the President.”
On May 23, at the 45th birthday cele-
brations of the PKI President Sukarno
repaid this unswerving support. “I em-
brace the PKI,” he said, “because it is
a revolutionary force . . . PKI go ahead.
PKI never retreat. PKI grow, be strong.
Onward.”
Mr Aidit and his associates hardly
need such encouragement. During the
past 13 years they have developed the
PKI from a stagnating force of some
8000 members into the largest Commu-
nist organisation outside the Soviet-and
Chinese blocs, with a claimed member-
ship of about 3,000,000. In addition, the
PKI leadership says it controls 8.5 mil-
lion peasants, 3.5 million trade unionists,
2 million women, 2 million Young Com-
munists and 500,000 artists and intellec-
tuals. Anti-Communist Indonesians dis-
pute these figures. But too high as they
may be, the influence of the PKI over
large organised masses cannot be disputed.
It is seldom realised that the PKI is
Asia’s oldest Communist party. Founded
on May 23, 1920 by H. J. F. M. Sneev-
liet, a Dutch radical socialist, it tried to
organise three take-overs. The Dutch
crushed the first in 1926, the Indonesian
Republic suppressed the second in 1948
(the Maidwn uprising), and forestalled
a planned revolt in 1951. The two latter
attempts were made in obedience to the
Zhdanov line of non-compromise with
other parties and of promotion of vio-
lence. In 1952 Stalin established the new
line of co-operation with non-Communist
nationalists. Mr Aidit took charge of the
PKI at that time and he applied the
new prescription with the greatest skill
and success. He learned from past mis-
takes and has been in no hurry to invite
a showdown, which probably would have
ended in another defeat. But his white-
anting of Indonesian politics has been so
effective that few now doubt that his
chances are good in a bid for power in
a post-Sukarno era.
President Sukarno's speech on May 23
has further improved these chances. It is
unlikely that his warm embrace of the
PKI has greatly impressed the anti-Com-
munists who are still strong in the upper
strata of the army, the administration, the
well-to-do and the religious Moslems. But
he has given the green light to the hesi-
tants and to that middle stratum of
society which believes in Nasakom (a
regime comprising nationalists, religious
groups and Communists).
It is doubtful whether President Su-
karno has any serious reservations about
the ultimate aims of the PKI. If he has
he has kept them to himself. But con-
vinced as the President is about his mis-
sion the “Sukarno is always right” atti-
tude of Aidit & Co. had to impress him.
The Communists greeted with shrieks of
delight Indonesia’s withdrawal from the
UN, while there was only a murmur of
approval from other quarters. Behind the
scenes the PKI worked hard to squeeze
an outright condemnation of Malaysia
from the Afro-Asian Islamic Conference
held in Indonesia in March. But at least
some Indonesian Moslems seemed to be
lukewarm, and the Conference merely
declared that South-East Asian problems
should be settled in an Islamic way by the
nations directly concerned. There is no-
thing but warm support for Sukarno’s
pro-Peking orientation in the PKI. And
even if decisions go against the PKI
such as giving only four posts to the
Communists in a Cabinet of 75 (84 since
last week) or refusing to arm 10 million
peasants Aidit takes them in great
good humor, never openly doubting or
criticising Sukarno’s verdict.
It must be also highly reassuring for
Sukarno to hear from Aidit (in his inter-
view last March) that “many think I can
influence the President. He is not in-
fluenced by anybody.”
These are exactly the words President
Sukarno likes to hear and which he is
likely to hear in the future from the PKI
leadership. For as the speech on May
23 proved again —the policy of under-
writing President Sukarno has brought
phenomenal returns to the Indonesian
Communist Party.


\
m
Imiy
If
// /#/,
'"X
W?
\ ry > /,
\,1iX
\ s
> J
£
:■:/•: : :
t\ fU\X
f i i “/ X/
■ \ ! W ..."
■y-y
S'
*-*4
///'"/
// ‘
y
/' ! 1
S'
t —•
/• ,x —■? /
*
| "It’s the C.8.A.! They say that
there is £250 for us and free if we
qualify for the Government Housing
Subsidy!
It's exciting!!!
You speak to them now and we'll call
on the Manager tomorrow.”
***:!»**
Yes, you, too —if you are under 36
years and hoping to set up a home
should apply for this bonus. So call
in on your nearest Commercial Bank
Manager for his advice and guidance.
He will be only too pleased to assist
you and will explain just what you
have to do.
Look for the C.B.A. sign.
C.B.A
BANK
YOU '
HAVE A
FRIEND AT
CHEQUE & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS
THE COMMERCIAL BARK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
• ESTABLISHED 1866 • ASSETS EXCEED £300.000.000 • OVER 860 OFFICES AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, LONDON
66H/50


The Priest’s Story
“In many respects a mystery to himself”
By PETER GOUGH
“PT1 HINGS are not the same,” said the
old woman, fumbling her rosary
beads. “I just can't believe that
a priest would be in favor of birth con-
trol.”
“Are you a man?” queried the puzzled
three-year-old boy as he looked across
at the priest. “Yes, darling, he’s a man,
a very nice man,” blurted out the child's
embarrassed mother.
“Father, your dress is caught,” called
out the helpful girl, as the priest got
into his car and slammed the door across
the bottom of his soutane.
Apparently the nice-man-next-door
image of Mr Bing Crosby and his latter-
dav disciple. Mr Gene Kelly, is still more
real to a Hollywood-set than the worka-
day life of an Australian priest. But this
should come as no surprise, since the
Catholic priest is in many respects a
mystery, above all, to himself.
But the challenge of the priesthood
has long been considered among Catho-
lics, especially in the case of Irish
mothers, and Australian Catholicism still
has an Irish face-and-mind, the pinnacle
of a Catholic boy’s ambitions; this, no
doubt, accounts for the high proportion
of the most talented scholastic products
of the Catholic schools finding their way
into the priesthood.
This does not mean, of course, that
the seminaries for the training of priests
close their doors to the scholastically
average or even less than average; in
point of fact, the general IQ rating in
most seminaries “Would register only a
little better than average.
By w'ay of closer examination this
comes as no surprise since, funda-
mentally, a seminary is not a university,
even if present-day seminaries are, in
fact, much closer to the residential
colleges of a Victorian Oxford than the
live-at-home universities projecting their
technological image in Australian cities.
Since, in the minds of the responsible
authorities (the' Catholic bishops), the
skilled professional does not rank as
the top-priority in the training of can-
didates for the priesthood, a seminary
rector (the bishops’ agent) will, under-
standably, be more eager to see evidence
in a seminarian of moral integrity, a
capacity for prayer and an amenability
to strict obedience before scholastic
merit is taken into consideration.
In simple terms, the majority of
priests will w'ork out their lives in
parishes far removed from the rumblings
of academics. The mental challenge of
Australian parochial life is, as any priest
will readily explain, nothing alongside the
physical and time-consuming demands
that burden a priest in a busy parish.
Nevertheless, the seminaries have not
escaped their Catholic critics; harsh
voices have been raised querying the
intellectual worth of the seven-year
seminary course of studies. The major
complaint with the critics is that the
mediaeval mechanics of the philosophy
and theology taught in seminaries has
a higher rating than an intellectual excel-
lence pervading the seminary that will,
finally, be communicated back to the
laity at the parish level.
Some priests and laymen probe deeper
into the implications of the seminaries,
keeping their intellectual efforts
guarded behind the high seminary walls.
Such observers further maintain that the
failure to speak a common language,
other than the social level of a round
of golf, among the priests from the
seminaries and the better-educated laity
is fast sowing the seeds of rift for a lay-
cleric confrontation.
At this point the priest in his parish
may well complain that such discussion
has little personal concern for him and
the vast majority of Australia’s 3500
Catholic priests. And, in point of fact,
with minor reservations, such comment
is true. The Sacred Heart priest minister-
ing to Aborigines in Central Australia,
the young curate running an unruly
youth group, the old Cistercian living in
silence and prayer, the parish priest
swamped in a mammoth school-debt and
the priest attending to the sick are at
long distance from the ideologies of
seminaries and lay intellectuals.
All too often, little allowance is made
for the flesh-and-blood mixture in a
priest’s make-up. It is easy for the glib
spiritual writers to speak of the priest
as only a little less than the angels. But
a priest is ever-aware that he neither
looks nor feels like an angel. And, in
fact, a priest would be more conscious
of self than the rest of men—the singular
circumstances of his life see to that; his
celibacy, by way of example, has cut him
off from the normal ties of wife and
family. Hence, he is left more to him-
self than the vast majority of men, and
being left to himself his interests turn
inward, and his own being becomes his
chief interest.
There is nothing sinister in this state
of affairs. Simply, the lonely circum-
stances of a priest’s life prevent him
from becoming lost in the crowd and
losing his identity; in fact, a priest is an
anomaly in a crowd, since he could be
fleeing from himself and his priesthood.
It is only in the company of a crowd of
fellow-priests' that finds him at ease, since
this is. in fact, yet another reflection of
himself. There are, of course, a number
of priests that remain outside this
picture, but such priests are an off-beat
minority, outside, as it were, the semin-
ary pattern.
At every turn the priest is aware that
his life is different from the rest of the
neighborhood. First, the presbytery in
which he lives is most likely to project
a sombre grey atmosphere—there will be
no children’s toys strewn across the
front lawn.
Inside, the presbytery will be big and
rambling; noted for its cold, impersonal
character. It is not a family home. The
three occupants will most likely have
little in common—the housekeeper cut
off from her family; the parish priest
realising that time is catching up with
him now that he is in his 60s; and the
curate some 30 years or more his junior,
and often made to feel a child in the
presence of both the parish priest and
housekeeper.
Despite the high aspirations and the
other-world emphasis that a vocation to
the priesthood should always imply,
the priest, especially the curate working
in a parish (he is most envious of the
religious priest safeguarded with a vow
of poverty), will nevertheless find that
his salary makes small allowance for
the high cost of modern living. A
curate in the. Archdiocese of Sydney
receives £l4 per month as his stipend;
while in Melbourne a curate would get
about £4O per month. If a Sydney
curate is looking glum, it is more likely
that he has a financial problem than
that he is hooking his woods.
The religious priest is almost a dif-


PRODUCT
AUDIT
What is it?
Product Audit is a new, entirely free
service offered to Australian manu-
facturers by Zinc Alloy Die Casters
Association of Australia. The Asso-
ciation’s investigations have proved
that many existing metal products
and components could be manufac-
tured more economically and effici-
ently by zinc alloy die casting. They
could cost less to produce at faster
production rates to give a uniform,
higher quality product.
HOW PRODUCT AUDIT WORKS.
You send your product, prototype,
design plans or enquiry to the Asso-
ciation. A panel of expert die casters
set up by the Association examines
the merits of using zinc alloy die
casting in the manufacture of your
product. If a zinc die casting can
offer worthwhile advantages the
panel submits detailed recommenda-
tions. If not they tell you.
PRODUCT AUDIT IS CONFIDEN-
TIAL. Product Audit is completely
confidential —only relevant informa-
tion is submitted to the panel, and
your name is not known to the
members.
USE PRODUCT AUDIT. Send your
product or enquiry to The Secretary,
Zinc Alloy Die Casters Association
of Australia, 346 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne. Phone 60 1974.
PRODUCT AUDIT IN ACTION.
This magneto flywheel is now pro-
duced more economically by zinc
alloy die casting. Manufacturing
operations have been slashed and
close dimensional tolerances mini-
mise machining.
This is the symbol of the Zinc Alloy Die Casters
Association of Australia and your guarantee that
you receive the highest quality zinc alloy die
casting.
Australian Zinc Development Association, 95 Collins Street. Melbourne,
is co-operating with the Zinc Alloy Die Casters Association of Australia
in providing the Product Audit.
©
6823


good hews for
CIGAR SMOKERS
!?
1l
Schimmelpenmnck Simpatia
(Actual size)
in packets of 4, 7/-;
in packets of 10, 17/6;
and boxes of 25, 43/9.
Schimmelpenmnck
CIGARS
Holland’s finest
cigars now available
in Australia
Try Schimmelpenmnck soon.
One cigar will tell you.
Schimmelpenmnck cigars are imported for your
pleasure by Rothmans of Pall Mall (Aust.)
Limited sole Australian agent for
Schimmelpenmnck—Sigarenfabrieken
VlHGeurts & Van Schuppen N. V. Wageningen
Holland.
RPM 116
ferent breed from the diocesan or secular
clergy. It is more usual for a religious
priest to live outside the parish environ-
ment, since his order or congregation
would have been founded for a specific
work. Hence, Jesuits usually teach in
Catholic colleges, staff seminaries, give
conferences to religious and act as
Catholic chaplains at the universities.
There are, according to the 1964-65
Catholic Directory, 90 Jesuit priests in
the Australian Province.
A lack of Catholic tertiary education,
other than in the seminaries, has stifled
the scholastic scope of the Jesuits in Aus-
tralia. and the general public is only
aware of their existence through Jesuit
colleges like Riverview in Sydney and
Xavier in Melbourne. It is a different
story, however, in Europe and the United
States, with Jesuit universities being held
in high academic repute.
These days, however, there is ready
evidence to hand that the Catholic
Church cannot remain static. An ag-
giornamento, a “todaying” of the Church,
is taking place in the debates at Vatican
11, and the new manner of life for priests
will most likely be less out of step with
the rest of society.
Already, in Belgium, Cardinal Suenens
has cut away from the middle-ages-look
in the training of priests; opportunities
for personal initiative and decision-
making are part of this new seminary-
training. No longer are some 200
seminarians massed under the one roof;
six to eight students now live in small
apartments and run their own house. All
this is way removed from the old style of
things, since personal responsibility and
decision-making were not considered part
of a priest's lot t il he was put in charge
of a parish and was most likely already
in his 40s.
Signs are already at hand that the
young priests in the parishes and the
religious orders are a new breed; they
feel alive to the events taking place in
the Vatican Council, and have shown a
sympathy for the younger theologians in
the wings like Hans Kung. In a fashion,
the younger clergy feel the Council is on
their side: for too long in the Church,
they would hold, the powers that be have
had an old and weary look about them.
Already a cry has been sounded, and
an echo of response has been forth-
coming, for the emergence of the layman
from his back and shabby pew; but the
priest, seemingly, has received no such
invitation. This means, according to some
priests, that in the matter of Church
policy and channels of expression, the
“ordinary” priest, and this is the term for
the majority of Australian priests, is only
considered by Church authorities as a
hewer of wood and a drawer of water;
such a situation, as was noted this year
in England, is unacceptable to the
idealism of a freedom-loving younger
clergy.
These feelings of many young priests
register no lack of respect for authority
or their elders. But it is unfair to expect
young priests to act as nursemaids to old
parish priests, now years beyond the age
of carrying out the full requirements of
their ministry. In blunt terms, the effec-
tive mission of the Church is at stake.
Government, industry and commerce
make provision for statutory retirements
at 65 or even less; hence, it is exaspera-
ting for priests in the prime of life and
enthusiasm to witness the old, and now
surely thin, tradition of parish priests re-
maining in office and full authority up to
and beyond the age of 80.
Today there are Catholic commenta-
tors, and they would seem to adopt a
realistic stance, who maintain that the
present-time problems of Catholics can
only be solved if theology is the touch-
stone of discussion. Hence, these com-
mentators insist that Vatican II is basi-
cally a theological engagement; the parish
must never lose sight of its theological
entity; and the priest must have as his
equipment a theology that can be preach-
ed, understood and lived both by him-
self and the people.
Clearer horizons
Mow, it is at this point that the man
in the back pew and father-of-eight
might come forward and say: “But what
about the Pill?" The priest knows, within
the terms of his present mandate,' that
here he has no ready and satisfactory
answer, but he should certainly be sym-
pathetic and hope that the future will
bring clearer horizons.
But, of course, sympathy for others is
central to a true interpretation of the
priesthood. This is the major challenge
that a thousand Australian seminarians
are grappling with at the present time. It
is likely that some 70 per cent will finally
become priests; the rest will leave the 40-
odd seminaries in this country for sundry
reasons. And of those who become priests
about 5 per cent will defect from the
priesthood that is the dry tale of the
elusive statistics.
And finally, the question of a celibate
priesthood. But here we felt inadequate
for the task, and sought out a priest-
friend; fortunately, he was able to be of
help, since, he told us, a group of
young priests had recently queried a
craggy-faced Monsignor about the
Church dropping celibacy for priests. To
the question: “Will the Vatican Council
do away with celibacy for the clergy?”
the Monsignor gave a tongue-in-cheek
reply: “No, not in our time, but it should
come through in the time of our
children.”


AUSTRALIA’S FIRST
PERMANENT TR
£
c?
■ra*ng oEKiTfftj
Zi6
m
3
on
■
r.A
OPENS AUGUST 2nd.
A merchandise promotion centre for Manufacturer, Importer, Exporter or Agent. M.I.A.
Trade Centre will operate on similar lines to the World-famous centres in Chicago, New
York, Vancouver, Rotterdam, etc. The centre will be constantly staffed by expert advisers.
Constant Promotion!
Advertising both in Australia and Overseas
will be continuous and substantial. Special
direct mail to overseas visitors, etc.
Special attractions for general public!
Seasonal fairs, organised school tours,
fashion parades, etc. will be additional fea-
tures to keep a constant flow of visitors to
the centre.
Modern Display Bays
> . , i-
provided to achieve the utmost benefit for
products displayed. Literature racks and
sample data cards also provided.
Free phone facilities and conference rooms.
SPACES FILLING RAPIDLY. BOOK NOW!
Ai'if
■III!
«si?*S**g
lliil
Write or phone for
prospectus.
M.I.A. TRADE CENTRE
Fourth Floor, Anthony Horderns, Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Managing Director, Mr. Chapman. Phone: 211-2322.
Mail inquiries ter P.O. Box 30, Brickfield Hill, Sydney.


WINES TO BUY
A Letter to Cellarmaster
Learning how to be shrewd
Dear Reader Stinson,
The mind bogles. I feel like the Sultan
in his harem or the man sent to
shovel snow in the Antarctic. I know
what to do, but don’t know quite where
to begin.
Maturation time required and
it is difficult for even the expert to
predict accurately the peak time of a
wine. You simply have to buy wine for
the future and every so often try a
bottle. I buy what I think 'will be top
wines in two dozens. (This could be
termed extravagant. I have no money,
no bonds, stocks or shares. But I invest
in wine. At least the assets are liquid.)
I record my initial impression, then the
spasmodic taste every few months, until
I think it is quite ready to be at its best.
In some cases it is obvious a wine needs
a couple of years before this testing even
starts, so I put it down and forget it.
Australian wines are likely to hold for
considerable time, so you can enjoy your
bin for quite a while, especially if you
have a few going. I personally get
tremendous pleasure from my cellar, in
contemplation, anticipation, consumma-
tion and appreciation. I get even more
pleasure from other people’s!
As for the wines you ask about:
The McWilliam wines: The OP and
OH Hermitage of ’6O is very good with
lovely flavor and firmness. It can be
drunk now, but is likely to improve for
quite some time. The ’6l Robert is not
unlike the ’6l Pinot Hermitage, having
a round, nutty oak character that is in-
clined to dominate the grape flavor.
But in both cases the latter is coming
through, in the Robert a little slower,
and both will finish up top wines. The
’59 Anne and the ’59 Maria Rieslings
have been reviewed (8., 6/10/’62 and
21/11/’64) and both have now a beauti-
ful, full flavored, soft White Burgundy
style, the Maria being the bigger of the
two. The ’6l Sauternes, a luscious fruity
wine from the Hunter, will need a lot
of bottle age to reach its peak, although
I wonder if some of these sweet wines
are quite worth the trouble.
Seppelt. Chalambar Burgundy is one
of the best “standard” wines available
Sir,
Your Bulletin remarks (such as the reviews of ten different wines
November 21, 1964) just don’t come often enough. So I’ve enclosed a little list
of wines which 1 have bought, and would be delighted if you could tell me as
much about them as you know, so that 1 might be able to taste what you’re
talking about. 1 have tried some of these wines and can recall my general im-
pressions, but the majority I shall be consuming over the next few months
unless you spot something outstanding and unattainable that might well bear a
few more years in bottle. Could you indicate when you think each one might be
nearing its height?
I have a thirty-hole cellar and want eventually to start laying bottles down
which I’m confident will be really top class in three or four (or ten, or fifteen?!)
years’ time. I hope that with a little guidance from yourself I might soon be-
come a little shrewder at my cellarmastery.
DAVID A. STINSON
Marrickville (NSW).
P.S. I’m shortly to be ship-wrecked on an island and deserted for the
remaining years of my life. What handful of bottles will I take, and where can
I buy them?
THE LIST
McWilliam. Robert Hermitage 1961; OP & OH Hermitage 1960; Pinot
Hermitage 1961: Sauternes 1961; Anne Riesling 1959; Maria Riesling 1959.
Seppelt. Chalambar Burgundy 1960; Chalambar Burgundy 1958; Chalambar
Burgundy 1961; Moyston Claret 1961; Rhymney Chablis 1956.
Buring. Barossa Burgundy DRN 3 1958; Claret DRQ 8 1960; Coonawarra
Claret DR 61 1959; Chateau Leonay Rhine Riesling 1963.
Lindeman. Claret Bin 45 1959; Claret Bin 2500 1959; Burgundy Bin 1950;
Chablis 2272 1963; Riesling 2222 1963; 2020 Chablis 1962; White Burgundy
2240 1963.
Penfold. Shiraz Mataro 1960; Grange Hermitage Bin 49 1959. Minchinbury
White Seal Champagne.
Rhinecastle. Cabernet Sauvignon Burgundy Bin 85 1959; Cabernet Shiraz 186
1959; Moselle 92 1963.
Yaluinba. Galway Vintage Claret 1958; Galway Vintage Claret 1959.
Orlando. Barossa Cabernet Sauvignon and Hermitage 1959; White Burgundy
1958 (Trebbiano).
Tyrell. Dry Red Vat 17 1964; Chablis Bin 3 1964; Riesling Bin 4 1964.
Tulloch. Pokolbin Dry Red 1961; Pokolbin Riesling 1961.
Others: Milawa King Valley Claret 1961; Stonyfell Metala 1960; Houghton
Cabernet 1961; Rouge-Homme Coonawarra Claret 1961; Hardy’s McClaren
Vale Hermitage; Kaiser Stuhl Gold Medal Claret 1963; Woodleys Coonawarra
1959; Cotes du Rhone Vini-Costieres 1960; Hamilton’s Springton Riesling 1963;


For the Connoisseur!
jfindeman RESERVE BIN VINTAGE WINES
Lindemans Wines announce that they have available limited quantities of
Reserve Private Bin Wines selected for Connoisseurs from the very
best Vintages of Australia’s finest vineyards. These wines may be ordered
through your usual Supplier.
VINTAGE 1963 LINDEMANS RESERVE WHITE BURGUNDY BIN 2240
This wine was made from Semilion grapes grown at Lindeman’s “Ben Ean”
and “Sunshine” Vineyards, Hunter River Valley, NSW. Bin 2240 is a soft,
round, generous White Burgundy suitable for serving with practically any
food or dish. It was awarded '
GOLD MEDAL 1963 BRISBANE SHOW
SILVER MEDAL —1963 ADELAIDE SHOW, AS A ONE-YEAR-OLD DRY WHITE.
VINTAGE 1964 LINDEMAN’S RESERVE RIESLING BIN 2464
A crisp delicate fruity flavoured wine with a strong Hunter character, this wine
was made from Riesling and Traminer grapes grown at Lindeman’s “Ben
Ean” and “Sunshine” Vineyards, Hunter River Valley, NSW. It was bottled
at a very early age to retain the flavour and character of the original grapes.
Awarded a
SILVER MEDAL 1964 BRISBANE SHOW, IN THE OPEN HOCK CLASS. ANY VINTAGE.
today, being full-bodied and fruity with
low tannin. The current one is the ’6l,
but both this and the other vintages will
still improve. Recently I opened a ’56
that was very good and still not at its
peak. The Moyston Claret has a Caber-
net addition and is perhaps a little
lighter, with a firm, soft tannin finish. It
also improves with bottle age. I don’t
know the ’56 Rhymney Chablis, but I
would imagine that there is no further
point in keeping it. These wines are
very sound, having a typical Pinot nose,
a full flavor and “steely” finish.
Buring. This company buys a lot
of regional wines, and so has a truly
representative list. The DRN3 from the
Barossa is very soft and smooth and
probably at its best today. The DRQB
Claret is a Hunter wine more like a
light burgundy, being very soft and not
likely to improve much. The Coonawarra
wine is full of tannin and fresh acid with
potentially a great flavor. Will crust
and improve, and needs a lot of age.
The ’63 Rhine Riesling was reviewed
last November and I can see no point in
holding on to something that depends a
lot on freshness for its appeal.
Lindenian. The Burgundy Bin 1950
and 2020 Chablis have been discussed
(B„ 2/5/’65 and 2/11/’64). The
former was ready then; I tasted it again
only last week and it is still very good.
I don't think it wants more age. The
repetitive Bin 45 is now of the ’62
vintage. These wines are light with
pleasant flavor and tannin and I would
not keep the ’59. The 2500 is a big,
pungent wine from Clare in South Aus-
tralia that will want a lot more age yet,
although I wonder if the flavor will ever
be remarkable. The 2272 and 2222 are
terrific wines, good for drinking now,
although I think the 2240, the White
Burgundy, needs more time to develop
its full flavor.
Penfold. The Shiraz Mataro is a
pleasant, smooth wine that does not
need excessive bottle age, the Mataro
being the softening agent. The Bin 49
Grange is lighter than the usual wine
of this famous range but still needs
plenty of time to be at its top. These
wines are well worth the wait, being
distinctive and distinguished. The Min-
chinbury Champagne query and the
added question were answered in a
previous article (8., 8/8/’64).
Rhinecastle. The Bin 85 Cabernet has
a full, generous flavor and is soft for this
grape type. Possibly at peak. I don’t
know anything about the 186; I can only
hope that virtue has its own reward.
The Moselle Bin 92 varies a lot. A
couple of years ago the wine was thin
and acid and was not seen at its best.
This has now been rectified and the wine
has reverted to type. (I assume you
know this bin is repeated every year.)
Yalumba. The Galway Vintage wines
are typically sturdy South Australian
wines that have lots of flavor and style.
The ’5B is a good big wine, inclined to
hardness, with a long life ahead. The
’59 is more delicate, softer, “supple” as
the French say. The French would.
Orlando. The Trebbiano was re-
viewed last November. I wouldn’t keep
this big wine indefinitely; the later ones
are a little lighter. The ’59 Cabernet
Shiraz is a pleasant wine with only a
slight nose, nice flavor and soft .finish.
Very drinkable now.
Tyrell. The Vat 17 Dry Red was one
of the lighter reds of this big Hunter
year of ’64. It still needs considerable
time and could be a very good wine.
The Bin 3 Chablis is a rather austere
type of wine, very clean and dry. The
Bin 4 is fuller, rounder and softer. Both
good drinking now.
The others. The ’6l Tulloch Red was
a light wine that should be drunk now,
and this applies to the Tulloch Riesling.
The Milawa North Victorian wine is
much fuller, a big wine with a firm
finish. Needs time, interesting to see
what happens. The three Cabernets,
Stonyfell, Houghtons and Rouge-Homme
make stimulating comparisons. The
Houghtons is a big soft wine, more
delicate than usual from WA but still a
big wine. Very easy on the gums and
full of grape flavor. The Coonawarra
wine is quite delicate in bouquet and
flavor; the little acidity apparent will
soften in a few months. The Stonyfell
is a cross between the two, firm, with
good grape character. It could still
develop with time. The Kaiser-Stuhl ’63
Claret is more a burgundy-type wine,
pleasant, soft, with an appealing fruift
character. These commercial wines have
done very well in open competition
against their bigger (and rarer) brothers.
Although the Hardy’s McClaren Vale
Hermitage was made for ready con-
sumption it will improve with matura-
tion as the pleasant oak flavor becomes
more integrated into the wine. The
Woodleys Coonawarra seemed to me to
have a very fruity, almost sweet charac-
ter with a trace of volatility. These
wines live for years. A while ago I had
the great pleasure of tasting a range
going back to 1932! They were alt
marvellous, and the ’32 was magnificent,
with great fragrance, flavor and balance.
A most complete wine. I can’t see the
’59 going quite that far. The French
wine I don’t know.
The Hamilton Springton Riesling is
the last of this rather long line. As in
all cliche-ridden reviews, it is by no
means the least! This wine spends little
time in wood but benefits from bottle
age. Recently I opened a ’6l that was
quite remarkable, several people picking
it blind as a good class German Hock
four times the price! Of a number of
Rhine Rieslings about today, this wine
seenis to need a little more age than
most and is better for it.
Finally, in answer to your postscript,
I would suggest you take memorable
wines to your desert island. That is, the
bottle of champagne that went with your
first love affair; the top red of the tasting
when you picked blind all the wines;
the bottle of port that gave such pleasant
solace the night your Government was
swept from power. They would stimulate
poignant memory in your solitude. But
they must all be empty when you land.
Otherwise you would go quite mad
wondering when to open them.


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
SYDNEY: It’s Slowly
Taking Shape
Lord, how the money rolls in!
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Slowly the Sydney Opera House takes
shape, a shape which is now visible
from many parts of the harbor and
city. Slowly, too, the Minister for Works,
in the new NSW I.iberal Government,
Mr Davis Hughes, to use the political
journalists’ phrase, “goes through the
files” to find out what secrets lie buried
there.
The new Premier, Mr R. Askin, in
his policy speech promised that an in-
quiry would be held into Opera House
costs. However, it seems unlikely that
this will be anything as dramatic as a
suspension of work and a full-scale Royal
Commission. This would probably in-
furiate the people of New South Wales
more than the current slow progress.
“There is,” Mr Askin said, perhaps more
in sorrow, “no alternative now to com-
pleting the Opera House, as far as pos-
sible overcoming delays and waste but
ensuring that high standards are main-
tained. To do otherwise would make us
a laughing stock.”
The new Government now has full
opportunity to apportion blame, and to
show if it can do better. It does seem
clear that the previous Government put
off making any announcement about the
final contract, for Stage 3, until after the
election, so as to draw as little attention
as possible to the funds being sunk in
Bennelong Point.
Stage 3 will be by far the largest of
the contracts. It will be a group of sub-
contracts under one supervising contrac-
tor. It covers all the finishing-off of the
building and includes cladding of walls
and paving with reconstituted granite,
installation of stage machinery and light-
ing and, finally, furnishing down to the
last Utzon-designed ashtray. In spite of
the fact that Contract 2 is nowhere near
completion, there is no reason why Con-
tract 3 cannot be let.
Once Contract 3 is let the Opera House
Executive Committee may advertise for
a general manager and steps may be
taken to obtain and train key technical
staff. At present the committee has only
two full-time employees, the secretary,
Mr Kevin Turnbull, and Mr Willi
Ulmer, who is responsible for installing
the machinery and may eventually be-
come the Opera House’s technical direc-
. AU , , ~ f
tor. Although the president of the com-
w o t, i j
m.ttee Mr S. Hav, and may now retire
from his job as head of the Water Board,
it is thought unlikely that he will sur-
ren er is pera ouse post.
There is now no firm finishing date for
Stage 2, the construction of the roof by
M. R. Hornibrook. At one time the
date was the end of 1966, but this
appears optimistic now. However, there
are assurances that all technical difficul-
ties have been overcome, at least on
paper. Complicated schedules, worked
out by computer, are all on the wall
and have merely to be translated into
steel and concrete. However, the pro-
ject still seems to be dedevilled by labor
troubles, although the idea still seems to
be that if you don't talk about them they
might go away.
Hornibrook's, under their contract, pay
only award wages. Civil and Civic, who
carried out Stage 1, paid above-award
wages so Stage 2 has been punctuated
with stoppages, aimed at forcing the
Government, through the contractors, to
agree to higher wages.
The change to a Liberal Government
will hardly cure this. However, the new
Government could take a longer view
and agree to higher wages, simply to get
the job done more quickly. The view of
the previous Government seemed to be
that if day-to-day costs did not vary
greatly, criticism would die down. How-
ever, higher wages and an advanced
finishing-date might prove economical in
the end. The new Minister’s perusal of
the files may give him an answer to this
one.
One problem regarding the Opera
House which the new Government is pre-
pared to tackle is its embarrassment of
riches. Although the building grows
slowly, its bank balance, mainly from
lotteries, grows at a very healthy rate.
On June 30, 1964, net receipts in the
Opera House account were £10.6 million,
but by June 30 next year they are ex-
pected to reach £l6 million. Each Opera
House lottery nets about £lOO,OOO and
about 13 are drawn each year. The new
Government proposes to divert the pro-
fits from one lottery each year to “assist
various other cultural, literary, musical,
dramatic and artistic bodies functioning
in the city and country”, as Mr Askin
put it in his policy speech.
Many eager hands will be oustretched
for a share of the £lOO,OOO. No matter
how carefully it is spread it would be
optimistic indeed to think it is enough
to ensure that Sydney is not finally a
laughing stock, as Mr Askin fears, but
because it has a finished opera house
and very little to put in it.
MELBOURNE: Look,
No Problems!
By PATRICK TENNISON
Melbourne has been missing out on
all the fun, fireworks and contro-
versy Sydney has been having with
its big cultural building project. The
plain, awfully simple fact is that Mel-
bourne’s million Cultural Centre is
being built in a very orderly way on
schedule and within budget. No rows;
no financial worries; no sudden plan
changes from the newspapers’ point of
view it’s like the movie producer who
was frustrated over the film biography he
wanted to do because the title character
just never had a struggle in his life.
The big centre on St Kilda Road,
within Top C throw of Flinders Street
suburban railway terminal, has by now
reached its adolescent growth stage and
is still completely innocent of the hard
facts of cultural building life that Syd-
ney’s opera house has been battling for
years. The Melbourne job is being done
in orderly stages. Stages one and two —
excavating, laying foundations, covering
them, laying the floor of the art gallery-
have just been completed. A sort of
side stage job—erection of the 1200-car
carpark —is going ahead according to
plan. With full confidence backed by
a h previous experiences, the building
committee has announced that this will
be opened in July when it will be leased
*° ar } company to operate and start
providing the whole project s first mcom-
commercial revenue. Documents are
now being drawn up for stage three—the
B aller y proper-and work is sche-
duled to start on this m September and
be finished by late 9 .
So far, including the carpark, the work
done has cost £2,170,000. Stage three is
being planned to cost no more than


THE SYDNEY
OPERA HOUSE
Marilyn Jones and Garth Welch per-
form a pas de deux on the stage
of the Little Theatre, the smallest
theatrical stage in the Opera House.




Above: General view of the Sydney Opera House from
Unilever House. Since this picture was taken in April,
three more ribs have been added to each shell, proof
that some progress is being made. the larger shell
will cover the satage of the major hall, the smaller one
the foryer of the major hall, with a still larger shell
to house the main auditorium, still to be built.
Left: The stage pit of the major hall photographed
from the back-stage area. The stage level will be
where the top line of concrete bisects the picture.
P!CTURES BY KEITH BARLOW
Above: The major hall [?] bock of the auditorium towards the stage.
Above: Inside the first, or foyer, shell of the major hall and looking
towards the city. This is the view that patrons of events in the largest
of the Opera House's four halls will have as they enter the building.
Below: Night view of Circular Quay from the concrete platform which
will eventually be the restaurant, open to the public, at the Opera House.


KALCOLOR
changing the
architectural scene
Kalcolor is more than just another
anodising process. It is a new method
of imparting to aluminium, colours that
will never fade. No other architectural
anodic finish measures up to Kalcolor.
It provides complete uniformity and
reproducibility of colour, greater
corrosion and abrasion resistance than
ever before, as well as absolute
lightfastness. Kalcolor is available
in a range of classic architectural
colours exclusively from Comalco
and the sole licensed processor,
ALUMINIUM ANODISERS PTY. LTD.
The richness and beauty of
Kalcolor is evident on Sydney's
new Lasalle Building.
J. Connolly Limited used both sheet
and extrusions with a bronze Kalcolor
finish to obtain a perfect colour match.
c
COMALCO
Licensed trademark of Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corp.


£3.5 million. To come after it is com-
pleted will be succeeding stages to take
in the proposed art school, theatre and
the 415 ft-high copper spire which will be
the spectacularly dominating feature of
the whole thing visually. By 1970 the
entire work is expected to be finished.
All this has been achieved without any
call on such special financial aids as
mammoth lotteries. The Victorian Gov-
ernment promised to give £BOO,OOO a
year—and this amount has been forth-
coming each year since 1960 when the
scheme was finally drawn up. In ad-
dition, the public were asked to subscribe
money. So far, £600,000 has been given
by private citizens and firms. This also
is a continuing process as there are
special committees which operate to raise
money by the usual charity-type devices
of holding parties, theatre nights, dances,
etc.
Still under discussion are schemes to
broaden the original concept by the addi-
tion of a 2500-seat concert hall some-
where in the complex. The Australian
Broadcasting Commission and the Mel-
bourne Symphony Orchestra are keen to
do this as such an auditorium would
provide a new hall for concerts away
from the already heavily booked Mel-
bourne Town Hall.
The idea of a cultural centre in Mel-
bourne was mooted way back as far as
1943. In those days £2 million was the
figure bandied around for such a scheme.
Talk and enthusiasm waxed and waned
in the post-war years when the concept
was really feasible, accelerating strongly
through the ’sos until in 1959 architect
Roy Grounds was finally commissioned
to draw up plans. At that time £3 mil-
lion was the sum designated that he
should think about. Two years later his
copper-spire-dominated design was made
public and a £4 million price tag was put
on it all. The very next day the Premier,
Mr Bolte, upped this figure to £5.5 mil-
lion. The addition since of extras such
as the carpark plus “natural” increases in
construction and materials costs explain
the later, higher tag price of £7.5 million
on the entire work.
Mr J. D. Rogers, chief executive officer
of the Building Committee responsible
for the job, very hastily pointed out when
I rang to check details with him that
there had been a very minor breach in
the schedule which should be pointed
out. The stage three work, which should
have started next month, will now not
start until September. “A few things like
lighting and display caused this delay,”
he explained almost apologetically. “But
though it is unavoidable that we shall be
late in starting, we believe that we shall
still not be late in finishing this stage.”
He would not be drawn on the matter
of Sydney’s opera house headaches. “We
always avoid making comparisons with
Sydney,” he said contentedly.
In a city notorious by now for con-
struction mishaps, even this is something
the cultural centre work has so far
escaped. The only incident to date
occurred in April last year when some
newly poured reinforced concrete col-
lapsed. But the only casualties were two
slightly injured Italian workmen,
So thus far, it's all a spectacular
enough and efficient show going on along
St Kilda Road. But newswise, it’s
utterly dull.
CANBERRA: On the
National Circuit
By GLENN RUSSELL
The last nail knocked into the Can-
berra Theatre Centre will join the
national capital for the first time
to the Australian theatrical circuit. The
Canberra Theatre Centre is a long, low
building capable of catering simultan-
eously for a full-scale symphony con-
cert or ballet, drama presentation, an art
exhibition, a club meeting and a formal
dinner.
The building, which cost about
£500,000, is due to be opened on June
24. Its supporters claim it will be the
best of its size in the world. A colonnade
links the two theatres in the complex,
which is centrally situated at the west-
ern end of Civic Square between the
main shopping area and tree-topped
City Hill, with the statue of Ethos (re-
presenting community spirit) standing
sentinel nearby.
The main theatre will seat 1200 people
and the little theatre 300. Also in the
complex are a gallery, a balcony and
clubrooms.
Completion of the Centre should end
Canberra’s days as a theatrical back-
water.
Until now, cultural entertainment in
Canberra has centred on the barnlike
and inadequate Albert Hall. For in-
stance, when the Grand Ballet Clas-
sique de France visits Canberra early
this month the facilities of the Albert
Hall will permit only a token perfor-
mance by a section of the company.
The Theatre Centre on the other hand
will be able to accommodate almost any
kind of theatrical or orchestral produc-
tion, including grand opera and ballet.
Despite its accommodation capabilities,
the centre-line distance from the back
of the main theatre to the proscenium
opening is less than 110 feet, with seats
fanning out in wide rows upwards from
the stage and without the traditional
circle or galleries, to give the effect of
intimate theatre from any seat.
Mr Terry Vaughan, formerly of J. C.
Williamson’s, has been appointed director
of the Centre. He is proud of his new
charge and enthusiastic about its poten-
tial.
The idea of a Canberra Festival of
Arts was among the many that had in-
terested him since he took up the ap-
pointment three months ago, he said. His
job is to manage the Centre buildings,
negotiate to bring both Australian and
overseas stage shows to Canberra and
develop the patronage of the Centre.
Mr Vaughan explained that the Centre
and all its facilities, right down to the
usherettes’ torches, would be available for
rent. He expects admission charges to be
no more than in Sydney or Melbourne but
said that these were a matter for the
people putting on the performances.
The Australian Ballet Company and
the Queensland Symphony Orchestra will
perform at the opening of the Centre.
Performances booked to follow them in-
clude ABC celebrity concerts, pianist
Winifred Atwell, a Hungarian-flavored
concert called “Echoes of Operetta”, a
showing of French films by invitation of
the French Embassy, the Ray Price Jazz
Quartet and the Sydney Symphony Or-
chestra. Mr Vaughan also expects the
Centre to encourage the development of
local talent which includes an excellent
repertory company.
The theatre is constructed of load-
bearing brick with copper roofs sup-
ported on steel trusses, with an acous-
tically treated roof to dampen down ex-
ternal noise. The ceiling is a pattern of
suspended decorative panels known as
“acoustic clouds”. The baffles cover ab-
sorption material and can be moved like
louvre blades to reflect or absorb more
sound.
Another important use for the new
Centre will be as a conference centre.
Canberra last year played host to 75
major conferences and is becoming in-
creasingly popular as a conference capi-
tal.
Of the existing venues in Canberra,
the Academy of Science offers some of
the best facilities but seats only 300. The
National Capital Development Commis-
sion has estimated that by next year
convention attendances in Canberra will
have risen to 15,960 —an accommoda-
tion burden which the Theatre Centre
would lighten considerably.
All of this means that those people
who devote their energies to seeking out
white elephants in Canberra may be dis-
appointed to learn that the Canberra
Theatre Centre is a profitable pachyderm.


'
3
m 1
mm.
, m
>-
m.
-• v
ttfe.
M
life
PR657101
BETTER METHODS
CUT COSTS
Paper for Progress No. 4 of a series
As part of a policy to cut costs and improve versatility, Griffith Producers Cooperative Ltd., of Griffith, N.S.W.,
have installed A.P.M. Fibre-King citrus handling equipment of the latest design.
This plant was designed for them by Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd., to give maximum packing versatility
with minimum costs and to take full advantage of the benefits accruing from the use of fibre containers.
Fibre containers give improved produce protection, can be glinted decoratively, allow faster packaging and can
be sealed automatically.
A.P.M., with its customers, is assisting producers in their battle to reduce packaging costs.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS LTDI
OWNED BY AUSTRALIANS. Head Office: South Gate,
South Melbourne. Sales Offices in all State Capitals.


IRH*
m
''® Js'&S,
♦ «'**. ;
* -
i **>**&
:J ».;.
I* f;/,•*■««' IKK
M, i
'
*
»
'
\
~
%
Just hold
an
Asahi Pentax
. . . and you begin to understand
why this camera is the ultimate
choice of discerning photographers
all over the world.
Asahi Pentax is a beautifully balanced
instrument. It’s smooth. Precise. Fast. And
incredibly accurate. The lenses give superb
performance. It's easy to handle, too.
Meticulously built for constant use. Another
great Asahi Pentax advantage is its do-
anything versatility. The wide range of
accessories enables you to build up a com-
plete system which prepares you for -any
demand, from microphotography to extra
long range telephotography, high speed
action subjects to portraiture. Just hold an
Asahi Pentax at your deededs soon!
KDI 1 23
Constant Motion
A Severed Head. Iris Murdoch and J. B.
Priestley. Phillip, Sydney.
Difference of Opinion. George Ross and
Campbell Singer. Theatre Royal, Sydney.
“A Severed Head” is a play about the
English attitude towards adultery, which
might be summed up as dogged. The
play, as staged at the Phillip, could be
sub-titled life as it is lived in Beard
Watson’s windows.
The complicated, and expensive set
shows simultaneously a handsome repro.
drawing room and another room fur-
nished in teak and leather. Intermittently,
by means of a revolve, we have an over-
powering boudoir and a simple bed-sit.
The total effect in the first act is that
"DIFFERENCE OF OPINION," the Phillip pro-
duction now at Sydney's Royal. JOHN GRAY,
ROBERT FLEMYNG and KEVIN MILES talk over
business problems.
the set is in motion while the action
stands still.
Miss Murdoch and Mr Priestley have
to a more than reasonable degree turned
the dramatist’s job over to the workshop.
The set has also allowed Miss Murdoch
to indulge herself in this adaptation of
her novel of the same name by including
several episodes which are unnecessary to
dramatic action. The stage cannot achieve
the fluidity of film and it is foolish and
disastrous for it to try.
This distraction aside (and here we
are only the victims of London's mania
for fads and fashions) the play, although
showing few signs of Miss Murdoch’s
cerebral reputation or Mr Priestley’s long
term at constructing plays, is very good
commercial theatre. It is witty, although
at times only mechanically so. But it is
not good-humored and the lack of this
has stopped the authors from making up
their minds about some of the characters,
or making it clear that they, too, regard
it as preposterous that six grown people
would fall in and out of love two or
three times within the space of as many
weeks.
The symbolism of severed heads and
strange gods which fit well enough into
the texture of Miss Murdoch's novel
becomes more than slightly silly on stage.
Dr Honor Klein, a manufactured char-
acter in the original, is an impossibility
in the flesh. Perhaps, if Leila Blake had
had a more commanding presence and
a richer voice, she might have carried
it through.
The jumpiness caused by getting on
and off a matrimonial merry-go-round
may have been responsible for some
inconsistencies in acting. Robin Bailey
worked too hard at Martin Lynch-Gib-
bon, but this often happens to actors
doubling as producers. Diana Perryman
tried to mask some of the unpleasant-
ness and dishonesty of Antonia by pro-
jecting a fevered and neurotic woman,
but this, too, meant that she was work-
ing too hard at it. Michael Blakemore,
as the American psychoanalyst, suffered
somewhat because the British authors,
having established the character's awful-
ness, kept on and on and on at it.
Jan Leeming and Mark Edwards, who
on previous appearances this year were
prime candidates for the title of worst
actor and actress of the year, did very
well, and it would be churlish to give
Mr Bailey’s direction all the credit.
“Difference of Opinion” is a nice night
out. Not so long ago that wouldn’t be
saying much, but after the heavy weather
and muddy waters Sydney theatre has
been through recently, it is saying a good
deal. This Phillip production seems to
have got off the ground a lot quicker
in Sydney than it did in Melbourne.
“Difference of Opinion” is a business
thriller, classed as a thriller on the
assumption that boardroom manoeuvres
can be exciting. Here there is no good
and evil, only tough and tougher. The
play aims at giving an inside story, which
the current bestseller list would show is
a good formula for popular success. The
situation of one group of directors con-
niving to remove another director from
the board may be full of financial flaws,
but these would hardly be apparent to
the average theatregoer.
Although this play is English, the
whole could have been devised by a sad-
dened shareholder of one of our recent
delinquent companies. The businessmen
are modern, expenseaccount style, who
could be transferred from London to
a glasshouse at North Sydney without
dropping a word of their jargon or even
changing the label on their whisky.
The counterpart of Kevin Miles’s first-
class presentation of a cold-eyed young
opportunist can be found in any jet bar
along Castlereagh Street, and we have all
had the dim pleasure of meeting one of
Raymond Westwell's senior executives,
whose pomposity masks low intelligence
and low cunning. Robert Flemyng held
his role of the plotted-against director
together very nicely and Carmen Duncan
extracted what warmth and charm there
was in the role of the loyal secretary.
Lou Vernon, Lrank Taylor, Max


s>
1>
WHO SAID THE SWISS HAVE NO KINGS OR QUEENS?
The King is you, sir. The Queen is you, madame, when you
fly Swissair, that fast-travelling, world-encompassing outpost
of Swiss charm.
Once you’re in the hands of the Swissair people you receive
the royal treatment. The world calls it Swisscare. Their
jet-fleet receives very special Swisscare, too!
Swissair flies to 67 cities in 41 countries. How many coun-
tries will you visit on your next trip? You can be sure the
most convenient and rewarding way to go is by Swissair.
See yopr Travel Agent—he knows all about Swisscare.
A warm welcome awaits you aboard.
SWISSAIR
SWISSCARE • WORLDWIDE
General Agents: Australia—Ansett-A.N.A.
New Zealand and Pacific Islands—Air New Zealand
Meldrum and John Gray worked well,
but Alison Beattie and Muriel Hopkins
had an uphill task in providing comic
relief with the tired material the authors
gave them.
PATRICIA ROLFE
Nostalgic Need
Beekman Place. Samuel Taylor. Comedy
Theatre, Melbourne.
The good drawing-room comedy has be-
come as rare as hens' teeth. London,
once the chief supplier, has more or less
gone out of the industry. The product
Broadway has to offer is not up to pre-
war quality. Of course, all the manage-
ments are looking for it because, if they
do find an acceptable one, it is the only
type of show', smash-hit musicals apart,
which, they think, can fill the big
theatres.
“Beekman Place” is about as solid an
article as they are likely to find now,
which is not saying very much. The
setting is a fashionable corner of New
York, but Beekman Place is a Grosvenor
Square transported to the East River.
It is an unabashed throw-back to British
originals, which gives it a certain polish
as well as a slightly dated atmosphere.
To add a contemporary cachet, there is
some by-play about banning the bomb
w'hich serves as an excuse for the well-
behaved rebelliousness of the juvenile
leads. This is never allowed to inter-
fere with the main story-line which,
naturally, has to do with the peccadillos
of their seniors. The whole is plushy
and cosily wrapped up in traditional
style. The self-conscious introduction of
the modern element rather tends to un-
derline the lack of fresh ideas.
Within these limitations “Beekman
Place” is not at all a badly contrived play.
It may even justify the hopes of J. C.
Williamson. The first act is as slow as
first acts almost invariably are these
days, but from then on it travels at a
fair pace and, while rarely achieving
anything as dangerous as wit, the situa-
tions are brisk and laughs are regularly
provided for. They are obtained from
the eruption into the luxuriously sedate
home of Christian Bach-Neilson, a
famous violinist retired before his time,
of Lady Pamela Piper and her daughter,
the Honorable Augusta. Pamela has a
fascinating past. Augusta, her darling,
is devoted to the CND and to the son of
a London retail tycoon whose child she
is prematurely expecting and who fol-
lows her across the Atlantic. This young
man, Simon, is in turn followed by his
father who—how did you guess?—is an
old lover of Augusta's mother. Not to
keep you in suspense, so is Bach-Neilson,
but to reveal more would be unethical.
CGoogie Withers is Lady Pamela. The
part is made for her. Rather, it is the
sort of part she can play on her ear and
make a success of. But it does not
extend her, and so we miss the pleasure
of seeing a versatile actress, of very con-
siderable power calling on her whole
register of talents. Bach-Neilson’s charm-
ing wife is played most skilfully by Benita
Harvey.
The play will probably answer a nostal-
gic need and have a good run. It is
meant for women and they should make
it pay. They get reasonably bright fun
and there are the dresses to look at.
And Googie.
DAVID MARTIN
FILMS
Flipping Her Wig
Monde Pazzo. Director, Gualtiero Jacopetti.
Savoy Theatre, Sydney.
The Sound of Laughter. Director. John
O’Shaughnessy. Savoy Theatre, Sydney.
Producers Jacopetti and Prosperi have
discovered that man’s inhumanity to man
(or to anything else) makes countless
thousands flock to the box-office to buy
tickets.
I dislike films like this and disliked the
original “Mondo Cane” intensely. The
worst thing about them must be the high
moral tone adopted. A movie whose
clear intent is to cash in on our less
admirable instincts is at least honest.
But “Mondo Pazzo”, while pandering to
these instincts—and, I’m afraid, making
a fortune from them—also sneers in a
lofty manner at the depraved people who
behave in this reprehensible way.
The producers assure us that “all the
scenes . . . are true and taken only from
life”. One sequence (one of the less
offensive, certainly) deals with the wig
cult in America. No “career woman”,
it seems, has time to go to a hairdresser
(couldn’t she wash and pin up her own
hair), so all American women wear wigs.
We then see an enormous typists’ pool
at 5 o’clock, with all the girls removing
their working wigs and putting on their
evening-out ones. Signori, have you any
idea what wigs cost?
This “tender” film (to quote its makers)
apparently ends with a detailed film of
the suicide by fire of a Buddhist monk
in Saigon. I’m sure it was well photo-
graphed—technically the film is capable
—but by that time I was not in the
audience. I was rather revolted and
completely bored.
On the same bill is a shoddy film made
up of clips from movies of the early
’3os. Linked by a commentary of heavy-
handed humor (spoken with obvious
embarrassment by Ed Wynn), it purports
to be an anthology of early sound
comedy, though it includes torch songs
and dance numbers, too. We’re shown
some of the early appearances of stars
like Danny Kaye, Bing Crosby and
Imogene Coca, but instead of the ex-
pected nostalgia, the only emotion
aroused is wonder that they ever made
a go of it in their chosen profession.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
TELEVISION
Ready for Anything
The other night I watched the Ray Taylor
Show for the second time. On the first
occasion RT had struck me as just
that, all very arch, eyebrows dancing,
smirking at his studio audience, the
camera and me as though we were
mirrors to preen in.
It was a very different show the second


came
the quiet
revolution—
and friction
lost its
power!
Plastics
An industrial revolution began
quietly when plastics took over
from metals in certain fields of
engineering practice.
In those areas where friction is
a problem, ICI offer a range of
materials which have consider-
ably lower coefficients of fric-
tion than metal. With the
engineering principle in mind
"The lower the friction co-
efficient the better the opera-
tion”— lCl research scientists
developed a group of these
plastics which offer industry
the economies of less wear and
less maintenance. If friction is
your problem, the technical
facilities and services of ICI
are at your disposal.
The following chart shows the low coefficients
of friction of 1.C.1. plastic materials:
ICI
Plastics Group of
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
P.L.296.2895


time around. I tuned in to find three
men standing behind lecterns, Ray Tay-
lor in centre; on the left a voluble Roman
Catholic spokesman, Dr Charlesworth;
on the right, a Mr Mortimer, an equally
voluble Communist, or Marxist, as Dr
Charlesworth called him. Mortimer
said there was a great ferment of ideas
working in Marxism, Charlesworth said
he was surprised and glad to hear it. and
Taylor said it was good to find a Catholic
and a Communist able to discuss things
without heat.
As a variety act it was no worse than
most. The remainder of the bill included
a short short folk song, a brief interview
with Johnny O'Keefe, a short skit in
which a young man bought some
women's clothes because, he said, he w'as
to appear on the Mavis Bramston Show
and felt he should be ready for any-
thing. a short song by a girl accompanied
by drum and flute, a sketch ridiculing
hairspray ads, an excerpt from “You'll
Come to Love Your Sperm Test”, which
made hairspray ads seem the height of
sanity, and a scrap from a Caulfield
Tech, extravaganza.
There were also such standards as RT
interviewing the public on some burning
question which he tries to milk for
humor, and a series of newspaper gra-
phics with sometimes goonish-spoken
captions.
To this point the Melbourne show was
no better, no worse than Sydney's popu-
lar “Tonight” shows with Don Lane, if
you happened to prefer Ray Taylor to
Don Lane as an entrepreneur. However,
Taylor's show finished out front, in my
book, with a sudden burst of quick
sketches w'hich I can only describe as
“scenes from war novels’" and which were
first rate in their execution. Tres drole,
or real funny, like.
The reference, two paragraphs back,
to the fellow who was going to appear in
the Mavis Bramston Show reminds me
of some notes I made when 1 saw it for
the third time, going down. On first
viewing I feared it would appeal to
limited audiences. So Ampol bought it,
national. On second viewing it nauseated
me, and evidently a few other people.
And the third time around, it was limp,
had evidently ditched all attempts to be
timely, and was still nauseous.
I managed to stay afloat about one
quarter hour in which the cast sang a
skittish song about Tasmania, apprecia-
ting none of its zanier aspects but hand-
ing out plenty of direct insult. Then
there was a sketch about the problems
and institutional care of unmarried
fathers; a feeble song by the oldest d.j. in
radio, denigrating a medium in which
the singer, Gordon Chater, also happens
to work; an interview supposedly ruined
by, of all things, static interference in the
microphone; and a merciless take-off of
Judy Garland, singing and hitting fhe
bottle. I’m sorry, but to my nose there
is an odor of something more than
mouldy figs about the Mavis Bramston
Show.
DALE MILLER
BOXING
Knockabout Clowns
Qo those outraged people who are cry-
ing for an investigation, or a purge,
or even the abolition of professional fist-
fighting in the wake of the ludicrous
Liston - Clay heavyweight championship
bout, are not being very realistic.
They are talking about boxing as if
it were a sport. It is a branch of show
business. This is true, in varying degrees,
of baseball, football and other sports
which now gain much of their revenue
from the television networks, but it is
particularly and peculiarly true of box-
ing—the first sport to sell out to TV.
Back in the halcyon days of pro-
fessional boxing, in the era of Joe Louis
when there was still a true and wonderful
sporting atmosphere about the game, a
shrewd and money-minded man named
Mike Jacobs, who promoted many a
million-dollar gate, made a prediction.
The day would come, said Mike Jacobs,
when a heavyweight title bout would be
held in a TV studio before a handful
of officials and Press for the benefit of
millions of people across the country
looking at a giant screen in theatres and
boxing arenas.
The setting for the Clay-Liston debacle
was a makeshift studio in an ice-hockey
rink in the obscure town of Lewiston,
Maine. It was of no moment how many
of the local peasantry were able to part
with 100 dollars for a so-called ringside
seat (the real ringside seats were assigned
to TV technicians and the enormous
numbers of the world Press), or 50
dollars for those in the rear, so long as
the lights over the ring were bright
enough to transmit a strong electronic
image to the hundreds of theatres in
the closed-circuit TV set-up throughout
the US and Canada.
There was one touch that Jacobs never
dreamed of the Early Bird satellite
22,300 miles above the equator bouncing
the dreadful bout on to TV screens in
thousands of homes in England, Europe
and even behind the Iron Curtain. (One
jokester at the ringside insisted Early
Bird disgustedly sent the fight back to
Lewiston.)
The faces at the ringside were needed
only to “dress the house” and lend some
authenticity to the implausible goings-on.
Show-business considerations led to the
hiring of photogenic Robert Goulet to
sing the Star Spangled Banner, although
the handsome Canadian had to read the
words from a card in his hand, and still
managed to mangle them. Bumbling
Jersey Joe Walcott, a former champion,
was picked as referee instead of some
competent boxing official, for the same
reason. As could have been predicted,
Jersey Joe panicked and made a mess
of his job when Liston struck the floor,
failing to put Clay in a neutral corner or
to conduct the traditional count over the
stricken fighter.
You can have Cassius Clay for comic
relief, but for sheer villainy it is hard to
beat the menacing figure of Sonny
Liston, sullen ex-convict, cop-beater and
bully-turned-craven. And. lurking in the
wings, ready for his turn in the lime-
light once again, is neurotic but noble
Floyd Patterson, the tortured former
champion, still the upright hero of the
masses, trying to make a comeback after
two knockouts by evil Sonny Liston.
In their first encounter in Miami
Beach bullyboy champion Liston, the
overwhelming favorite, quits like a dog
on his stool at the end of the sixth
round, clutching a sore shoulder, and
Muhammad Ali becomes the first Mus-
lim to hold the world championship.
A few days before the scheduled return
bout in Boston, the champion is seized
with a stomach ache which turns out to
be a ruptured hernia needing immediate
surgery. The bout is postponed until
May 25, but a month before that date
the city of Boston is suddenly seized
with revulsion over Liston’s gangster
backing and kicks the whole crew out of
town.
This script kept the whole country
agog, to such an extent that the promo-
ters had no trouble filling more than 400
theatres with patrons who shelled out a
grand total of nearly five million dollars
for the privilege of viewing act two of
the Liston-Clay fistic follies. The fight
itself turned out to be a real stinkeroo,
as they say on Broadway, but that’s
showbiz.
GEORGE McGANN


How did he do it?
He arrived in Melbourne at 9.00 a.m,
He made six calls in different suburbs.
mm* ... :
mm- -
, r,;.
- 'SvTO
He drove across town to head office.
YW !
umm
V •
m
He went out to the new plant.
He detoured to visit friends—still made it to the hotel by 7.00 p.m. for dinner 1
Avis was waiting for him!
Going interstate? Arrange for Avis to meet you
on arrival with a new Ford Falcon.
When business takes you interstate, it’s good business
to have an Avis Falcon waiting for you at the airport or
railway station. That way you get more done —with less
strain. Within a few moments of arrival, you’re on
your way in a sleek, solid Avis. Falcon. An Avis
Falcon always comes to you in peak condition —
clean, shining and with the petrol tank full to the brim.
It’s yours to use as your own, for as long as you like. And
all the while, you and the car are protected by proper
insurance. Repeat —proper insurance. When next you
travel interstate, arrange for an Avis Rent a Car to meet you
on arrival. Book your Avis car with your travel ticket, or ask
your air hostess in flight, your train conductor, or enquire
at the reception desk on arrival.
mmm
A
AVIS
RENTA CAR
For a day> a week, or all the time.
AF3S7


Ptck;^p(Hick»oJ
AMPHORA
*> 5
sBi '■-
LIKE AN
EXTRA MILD TOBACCO?
Then ask for Amphora
in the Brown Pouch
- ■
m
PREFER A
MILD AROMATIC?
Then try Amphora Aromatic
in the Blue Pouch
FOR A
FULL AROMATIC!
Choose Amphora Full Aromatic
in the Red Pouch
AMPHORA
There’s a choice of
three fine Amphora pipe
tobaccos all cool
smoking —so there i$
one to suit you. Amphora
is an imported tobacco!
64
I PRODUCT OF DOU W E EGBERTS ROYAL FACTORIES, UTRECHT, HOLLAND
SAI47,
Letters to the Editor
"The Trial"
SlR.—Those interested in literary censor-
ship will have noticed that the Common-
wealth Government has now decided to
permit the entry into Australia of C. H.
Rolph’s “The Trial of Lady Chatterley”,
and that the Governments of New South
Wales, Tasmania and South Australia
have announced that they do not intend
to take any action against the Australian
publishers and distributors of the book.
However, the Victorian Government is
apparently continuing its action against
a Melbourne bookseller, Mr Paul Flesch,
for selling “The Trial”. The Freedom to
Read Association is assisting with Mr
Flesch’s defence. The case will be heard
during June. Funds are needed to en-
sure that the defence is adequate to the
importance of the case. We commend this
appeal. Donations may be sent to the
Treasurer, Freedom to Read Association,
P.O. Box 25, Chadstone Centre, Victoria.
(Prof.) R. R. Andrew
Chairman, Freedom to Read
Association.
(Bishop) Felix Arnott
(Dr) Andrew Fabinyi
President, Library Association of
Australia, Vic. Branch.
DONALD HORNE
(Prof.) James McAuley
(Rev. Prof.) J. D. McCaughey
Stephen Murray-Smith
Editor, “Overland”.
(Prof.) S. D. Rubbo
Academic Tail-wagging
SIR. Mr R. Burns feels puzzled why
anyone should feel morally obliged to
go along with Dr Knopfelmacher's sup-
porters rather than with his opponents
(8., May 22). May I explain to him why?
Dr Knopfelmacher was selected for a
senior lectureship in political philosophy
on academic grounds, by a selection com-
mittee which was agreed on one thing
only: that he was the man academically
suited to fill the vacancy. His application
was backed by five eminent philosophers
and by an impressive list of publications.
Subsequently another group of about
40 philosophers and social scientists
attested in public as to his academic
competence.
His opponents, led by a group of well-
known pro-Communists, succeeded, after
a personal campaign, unequalled in
nastiness, technical ingenuity and un-
scrupulosity in overriding the recom-
mendation of the selection committee.
Yet the most serious aspect of the affair
is quite unconnected with Dr Knopfel-
macher’s person, and it is this aspect
which the Australian public will have to
consider through appropriate organs of
public criticism and enquiry. How is it
possible that in this year of grace, 1965,
at our biggest university, a situation
could have arisen in which pro-Com-
munists can blow the whistle and 50
professors will wag their tails? Are we
to believe that the whistle has never
been blown before the Knopfelmacher
case and that it will never be blown
again? Only a searching enquiry can
give a satisfactory answer to these truly
alarming questions.
RAY EVANS
Carlton (Vic.).
The Ubiquitous Ho
SIR. After reading “Ho Chi-minh,
Portrait of a Terrorist” (8., May 22), I
wish to point out a very important
incident missed in the article. Nguyen
Ai-Quoc (Ho Chi-minh) was the leading
member of the founders of the Malayan
Communist Party. It was he who chaired
the inauguration of the formation of the
MCP in 1935 in Singapore. Later, when
he went back to Annam, he left his
entrusted follower Liteh, a north
Annamese, to be the caretaker of the
MCP. Liteh disappeared later after he
betrayed the national executive com-
mittee members to the Japanese on 13th
September, 1943, in Batu cave, two miles
west of Kuala Lumpur. It was Liteh
who helped Chin Peng, the present
general secretary of the MCP to escape
from that massacre.
YUNAN
Melbourne (Vic.).
Main St, Malaysia
SIR. In reference to “The Australian
on Main Street, Asia” (8., May 8), con-
gratulations on an excellent article! I
am a resident of Malaysia, a soldier
in fact, and a consistent reader of The
Bulletin. I know of the regard held by
Malaysians, Chinese and Indians (at
least in Malaysia) for the Australians —-
and it is high. A large percentage of
Asians it might be noted, not only find it
difficult to form a picture of Australia
in their mind's eye, but are not sure
what it is they have on their doorstep
but they like it! In truth, as one Malay
university friend puts it, the average
citizen wonders how a former convict
“dump” might become so prosperous as
to have a higher standard of living than]
England and be generally so well off
my answer, initiative and the fact that
we are Australians. British prestige, it
is noted, is at an all-time low. My friend
said Britain would like Malaysia to be a
colony, meanwhile bleeding it dry as
she did with India, Africa, Bahamas, etc.
I miss Australia when such good articles,
go to print keep up the good work.
R. E. HAWKES
Butterworth (Malaysia).


FORUM
“The Carpetbaggers”
- A Case Study
The New Censorship in practice
By GORDON HAWKINS
'\Tot long ago Donald Horne made an interesting suggestion regarding the censor-
ship of books. He said that it was time we got away from woolly talk about
“depravity and corruption” and got the authorities to say what they actually meant
in this context. “Thus,” he said, “if the State wishes to ban the description or portrayal
of some or all sexual acts it should say so. If the State decides that certain parts of
the human body are obscene it should name them. If it doesn’t want people to use
certain words it should write them down ... It would be fascinating to find out
what words, what sexual acts and what parts of the body the State found obscene.”
This suggestion is appealing because
one of the principal problems confront-
ing the student of our censorship is that
of identifying precisely what it is that
we are being protected from. At present
no one knows on what principles the
Commonwealth Literary Censorship
Board or the anonymous and incorrupt-
ible officials who advise the Minister
for Customs proceed. Yet this is of
more than merely academic interest.
Any member of the public is liable to
have a book seized by the Customs
inspectors. In such cases the Depart-
ment is sometimes prepared to consider
written representations. But quite apart
from the fact that they refuse to allow
temporary possession of the book to
enable preparation of a case, if one does
not know what they object to it would
be impossible to prepare such repre-
sentations satisfactorily anyway.
In these circumstances the thought
occurred that one way in which to deter-
mine the nature of the criteria of
obscenity currently employed would be
to compare the original version of a
banned novel with the expurgated edition
available in Australia. Fortunately, under
the relatively enlightened administration
of the present Federal Minister for Cus-
toms and Excise, Senator Ken Ander-
son, such an exercise is possible. He has
recently publicly stated that he recog-
nises that copies of prohibited books are
available and moreover that he is not
interested in trying to dig them out. He
acknowledges that “there would be strong
objection, and rightly so”, if his depart-
ment were to search in homes and
private premises even if it knew that
single copies of such works had been
imported.
My choice of a book for this opera-
tion fell upon Harold Robbins’s “The
Carpetbaggers”. It is freely available
here in an expurgated “Commonwealth
edition” published by Anthony Blond
in 1964. I selected it as peculiarly suit-
able for our purpose because the pagina-
tion is the same as that in the original
Simon and Schuster edition published in
America in 1961 and prohibited here.
Thus the details of the expurgation are
readily apparent on comparison of the
two texts. Initially I approached the
publisher and asked him to specify the
cuts made. But Mr Blond, although
courteous and even friendly, was not
disposed to be helpful in this connection.
So that the somewhat tedious process of
collation had to be carried through page
by page.
In passing it should perhaps be said
that no suggestion that a literary master-
piece has been bowdlerised or emascu-
lated is intended. The critics were almost
unanimously caustic about the book.
One referred to it as a “mixture of
sadistic sex, business dynamism and do-
it-yourself psychiatry” written in prose
which “has all the natural vivacity of
mud”. Another wrote of “a typical
Harold Robbins pastiche of newspaper
clippings liberally shellacked with senti-
ment and glued with sex”. Yet what-
ever commodity Mr Robbins purveys is
undoubtedly popular, however lacking in
“literary merit” it may be; and one
doubts that he weeps too copiously on
his way to the bank. He has recently
signed a contract promising one million
dollars for the hard cover, paperback
and film rights to a novel not one word
of which is yet written. Probably he
regards the critical animus he meets as
due to jealousy; and in this, although no
one would claim that “The Carpet-
baggers” represents a pinnacle of artistic
achievement, he may not be altogether
mistaken.
It would be interesting, however, to
know his reaction to what censorship has
done to his novel. At a conservative
estimate, approximately 125 cuts or
alterations have been made in the text.
The excisions vary in length from single
words to several passages of more than
CARROLL BAKER and GEORGE PEPPARD in a
scene from Paramount's "The Carpetbaggers".
50 and two of more than 100 words. An
examination of the words and passages
removed or amended therefore provides
a convenient conspectus of censorship
in action.
In the first place, what parts of the
body are regarded as obscene? It is no
surprise to find that male and female
genitals figure prominently on the list.
Mr Robbins employs a number of
elegant variants for the male sex organ
including “phallus”, “muscle”, “his man-
hood” and “my core”, all of which are
blue-pencilled.
One gets the impression also that both
the author and the censor are obsessed
with the fact that women are mammi-
ferous. This produces some curious
effects. Thus a character who, in the
original, says: “I don’t care what they
look like—as long as they are big”—is
reduced to absolute indiscrimination in
respect of appearance, in the Common-
wealth edition, by the omission of the
qualification. Some improbable descrip-
tions of nipples as “like bursting purple
plums”, “like little pink poppies” are all
removed.
There are many inconsistencies. For
instance, references to “her nude body”
on page 309 and to “her naked body”
on page 537 are cut; yet on page 466 a
detailed description of a naked woman
is not cut or amended in any way. When
we come to words the inconsistencies
increase. Thus the word “pubis” is twice
removed. Then there is an extraordinary
progression in which what is sometimes
called the Chatterley verb is first removed
altogether from pages 89, 91 and 255,
and then on page 309 changed to
“screw”. On page 409, however, the


The best feature
of this chair
is not on it, or under it.
It’s behind it! Behind every Sebel chair stands a unique 10
year structural guarantee. That’s the sort of long view that’s
necessary when you're buying chairs for your club. Over the
years we’ve “sat in” with thousands of committees and man-
agements with seating problems. Almost certainly we have
more than a few answers to the questions which may be
worrying you. Our range consists of no fewer than 27 chairs
each one of them designed for a specific purpose. They are
all attractive, easy-to-handle and (need we add) comfortable. If
you have people-seating problems now or in prospect drop
a note to Harry Sebel Chair-man at any of the addresses below.
SEBELS KNOW-HOW TO SEAT PEOPLE
N.S.W.: Sebels (Aust.) Ltd., 96 Canterbury Rd., Bankstown. Phone
70-0771. VIC.: Sebel Sales Ltd., 151 Dandenong Rd., Windsor, S.l. Phone
51-7063. S.A.: R. G. Evans Pty. Ltd., 9 Lindes Lane, Adelaide. Phone
23-3757. QLD.: Sebel Sales Ltd., 208 Wharf St., Brisbane. Phone 2-6963.
TAS.: NU Sales Distributors, Merino Street, Kings Meadows, Launceston.
Phone 4-9886.
«40
5E24.102N
censor removes “screw” (his own choice
earlier) and' substitutes “have”. Finally,
on page 510, “screw” is removed
altogether and no substitute is provided.
In general the practice is to curtail
descriptive passages so as to render them
less explicit. Quite often this makes it
very difficult to understand what is
supposed to be happening. A description
of an Indian marriage ritual has 120
words omitted which reduces the passage
to near unintelligibility. In another scene
the effect of cutting about 100 quite
harmless words gives an air of indecent
haste to the proceedings. As in an old
silent film, the hero no sooner enters
the room than he is in bed with the girl.
Sometimes attempts are made to
induce the women characters to be more
reticent. Thus one who says “Don’t
be so gentle, David, I’m a woman”, has
that line of dialogue peremptorily
taken from her; as does one who says
“Make me pregnant, Jonas”; and an-
other who says “Make love to me”.
Shivers of ecstasy are sometimes per-
mitted (pp. 254 and 583) and sometimes
not allowed (pp. 459 and 563). Some-
times the deference to women is touch-
ing. Both “She had a belly way out here”
and “That wasn’t my cake she was
baking in her oven” are removed.
But it would be pointless to continue
this catalogue although a multitude of
other odd exclusions and incongruities
could be cited. It is surely patently
obvious, however, that this kind of
censorship is not only irrational in con-
ception but also quite farcical in practice.
It is true that the novel, in common
with many “classical” works, deals with
adultery, rape, perversion, murder, cas-
tration and so on (everything, as they
say, that makes life worth living), but
what purpose is served by having some
buffoon with a pair of scissors chop it
about in this maladroit and sportive
fashion? Is anyone improved by having
to piece out its imperfections with their
own lewd imaginings? On what grounds
can this extraordinary product of
prurience, ineptitude and caprice be
seriously defended?
There remains moreover one further
question. Who was responsible for this
particular piece of tomfoolery? The
publisher? The Department of Customs
and Excise? Presumably whatever was
done was demanded and approved by
the Customs Department, but how was
the thing engineered? Enquiries as to
how the cuts and amendments were
decided upon, who did the editing, to
what extent the advice or co-operation
of the Customs Department was sought
or obtained were met with a wall of
silence.


BOOKS
The Russian Intellectuals
By DAVID MARTIN
Khrushchev and the Arts. Priscilla Johnson
The MIT Press. 755.
Most western interpreters of the see-
sawing struggles in the cultural life of
the Soviet Union divide the protagonists
into two rigidly opposed factions. On one
side are supposed to be the “conserva-
tives” who fight bitter rearguard actions
to defend socialist realism at its narrowest
and would stifle experiment; on the other
the “liberals” who seek freer forms of
expression, are interested in abstract art
and literature and eager for fertile con-
tacts with the outside world. The conflict
is paradoxically presented as between
either bureaucrats and radicals, or- be-
tween old die-hards and a young genera-
tion grown tired of politics.
This is difficult to do. The die-hards
obviously exist, together with their de-
based jargon. When Khrushchev said that
certain artists “judge the world only by
the smells coming from the latrines” he
was hitting at V. Nekrasov, Solzhenitsyn
and Yevtushenko, and at architects,
sculptors and painters, for distorting
reality as he and his friends wanted the
Soviet people to see it. Resting their own
analysis on a neatly simple formula, the
literary Kremlinologists then pretend
some more honestly than others that
the whole problem is explicable in tradi-
tional western terms. Priscilla Johnson’s
book, a collection of documents with
editorial comment, covering the period
from 1962 to 1964, is an example of this
approach. The introduction is full of
loaded asides; the rest combines solid
detail with cheery spitefulness and is as
unhistorical in its perspective as works of
this type can be. One does not have to
claim a specialist’s knowledge of all the
twists of the debate to treat it with some
reserve.
In 1919 Lenin said: “A culture cannot
be built; one can only reconstruct a
culture resulting from the evolution of
all humanity ... We must collect all the
culture bequeathed by capitalism; with it
we will build socialism. We have to
accept all of science, all of technology, all
of knowledge, all of art, without which it
will be impossible for us to build a Com-
munist society.” Trotsky’s views, in “Art
and Revolution”, are similar, though he
was a much sharper critic. Why is it
worth harking back so far? Because of
the modern argument which suggests that
the post-1956 discussions are something
entirely new. But they are new only in a
limited sense. The co-called liberals of
today certainly Yevtushenko and those
who think like him are not runaways
from Communism, as many in the West
imply, if they do not directly state it. In
a very real sense they are more orthodox
than their enemies, who imagine that a
culture can be built to a plan. Both
groups, however, share a belief in the
possibility of building a society, which
sets them apart from people outside who
regard this as inhumanly presumptuous.
To accept the idea that the division lies
crudely between Stalinists and anti-
Stalinists is to perpetuate the purposely
naive Khrushchevian definition of the
Personality Cult.
Dialectics is a complex methodology,
beyond the grasp of Miss Johnson and
her collaborators. It would be hopeless to
sketch coherently, in a few sentences, the
actual background to the matters with
which they deal. This would have to in-
clude such items as the nature of the new
intelligentsia and its real needs, the econo-
mic and cultural disequilibrium between
city and country, the outlook of millions
of producers who in two generations have
overcome illiteracy to become the world’s
largest readership of the classics, as well
as something about the composition and
aims of the bureaucracy. Khrushchevism
was and is not an attack on the bureau-
cracy, nor just its attempted preservation
against rebels. It is chiefly an endeavor to
broaden the foundations to assure its
survival and better dominance, and this
continues to govern relations with the
creative elements. They have to be won
over but on whose terms?
Another misunderstanding is all too
easy. Who are the “idealists” in the
battle? The answer is: the Khrushchevs,
the Sobolevs and the Surkovs. This is
strange to us only because we use impre-
cise categories. The idealisation of the
New Man and of the Positive Flero,
given another strong fillip by the war,
reflects a philosophical neo-idealism alien
to Marxism. (A denial of the scepticism
of natural and social science, a leap from
political optimism to quasi-mysticism.)
The best writers and artists, irrespective
of age, have long resisted this trend, sym-
bolised in the figure of Stalin. Looking
beneath the surface and ignoring secon-
dary contradictions, we find two move-
ments. The first, once typified by Dudin-
tsev, strives for a richer but essentially
revolutionary materialism, confronting
reality both as it is and as it is develo-
ping. The other, perhaps best represented
by Abram Tertz, is already anti-Soviet
in direction. There are many in-between
positions, but the main distinction has to
be made. For good reasons of their own
Khrushchev and his successors have oc-
casionally tried to obscure it. They must
not admit what all can see; that the art
they favor is that of an impossible status
quo.
The struggle has its epic characteris-
tics. Fadeyev’s suicide is the stuff of high
tragedy, and even Ehrenburg’s advances
and retreats are not devoid of pathos.
The manoeuvres between April 1962,
when the leadership of the Moscow
writers’ organisation was overthrown,
and Khrushchev’s silly speech of March
8, 1963, mark but a small corner of a
huge panorama. In this context the docu-
ments in this book still have some value.
Indeed, some are interesting and even
moving. But the stalemate which followed
is not half as mysterious as Miss John-
son claims. Khrushchev began by saying,
“Gentlemen, we declare war on you,” and
ended with inviting Tvardovsky to recite
his lovely parable on Stalinism, “Tyorkin
in the Other World”. Between these
events lay a series of conferences with
some painfully insincere verbiage but
also much plain speaking; the Novy mir
campaign and the mixed adventures of
Yevtushenko; the latter a victim of mis-
representation first in the French Press
and then at home. The truce, still partly
intact, had to be made because of shifts
and uncertainties on both sides the
ideological chips have never been laid on
the table. Since historians and leading
partymen cannot evaluate what Stalinism
and its after-period stands for, artists and
writers are doing it in their own fashion,
sometimes brilliantly, often hesitantly
and always hampered by the half-truths
unavoidable in such a situation.
The process continues. We have every
right to follow it with close attention, but
we might keep one or two things in mind.
While it must be devilishly unpleasant to
be caught in the crossfire, they have
always taken art and literature seriously
over there. Alienation comes in two basic
colors, nnd I sometimes wonder if we are
so very much better off.


Nehru’s Paradox
Nehru: The First Sixty Years. Selected and
edited with a commentary by Dorothy
Norman. Two volumes. Bodley Head.
£6 3s.
Modern India is a paradox, and nowhere
is this better illustrated than in the life
and character of Jawaharial Nehru.
Indians are possibly the most tradition-
bound people in the world today; but few
countries have produced a leadership
more sympathetically responsive to the
spirit of our times. The society is based
on caste-hierarchy, but the political sys-
tem is unambiguously democratic. The
people are deeply religious, but the Re-
public is a secular state. And yet despite
these obvious contradictions, India’s
political development since independence
has been remarkably free of instability
and organised coercion.
Nehru himself was a Kashmiri Brah-
min who was educated at Harrow and
Cambridge. An intellectual aristocrat by
temperament and upbringing, he eventu-
ally became the most articulate and in-
fluential spokesman of democratic social-
ism. In his outlook he was basically a
cosmopolitan rationalist committed to
India’s radical transformation: yet India’s
illiterate peasants loved and adored him
beyond measure.
It is not easy to explain this paradox
or Nehru’s extraordinary popularity des-
pite his highly unorthodox ideas and
ideals. The first generation of India's
national leaders were mostly liberal re-
formists. but their influence was limited
to a section of the urban middle class.
After the first World War they gave way
to Gandhi who attracted the rural popu-
lation with his saintliness and his tech-
nique of non-violent mass-movement.
He, however, made little appeal to the
intellectuals since he was opposed to
modernisation and offered hardly any
solution to the complex problems of
emergent India. Curiously, Nehru be-
came his favorite disciple, even though
he would not accept his religious-anar-
chist ideology. The attachment was more
psychological than intellectual, and is at
the heart of the paradox of Nehru. But it
certainly helped him in building a bridge
between the radical urban intelligentsia
and the conservative peasantry, between
tradition and progress. Without this
bridge, the story of contemporary India
would have been very different.
The phenomenon may be studied from
many angles, not the least important
being from Nehru’s own writings and
speeches. Besides being a charismatic
political leader, Nehru was also a gifted
literary artist, and his works provide an
excellent key to the conflicts and con-
fusions, the aspirations and efforts of
modern India. The material, however, is
voluminous, and not all of it readily
accessible, even in India. Dorothy Nor-
man is, therefore, to be congratulated on
her comprehensive two-volume selection
of “significant passages from Nehru’s
writings, speeches, statements before the
Court, Press conferences, conversations,
interviews and documents, up to the
founding of the Republic of India, 1950”.
Her objective is to present in Nehru’s
own words the development of his politi-
cal thought and the background against
which it evolved.
It is a labor of love and painstaking
scholarship. The material has been drawn
from many sources and arranged in
chronological order to cover the first sixty
years of Nehru's life. Besides his writings
and speeches, Mrs Norman has made use
of other books, reports, documents and
articles in periodicals which throw light
on her hero’s life and times. Brief histori-
cal summaries and explanations have
been interpolated throughout the text,
and notes provided on individuals men-
tioned by Nehru who, are relatively less
well known. There is a useful biblio-
graphy and even a glossary of Indian
words. The volumes would thus be a
valuable source-book to students of
modern India.
Mrs Norman's industry, however, is
not always matched by critical detach-
ment. Her attitude is a trifle too enthu-
siastic, sometimes almost worshipful. This
comes out in her introduction and brief
epilogue, but, what is more serious, it
occasionally affects her commentary and
sometimes her selection of material. She
relies for her background information too
heavily on Nehru’s writings or on sources
sympathetic to him; rarely does she draw
upon the accounts and assessments of his
critics. Thus, for example, the picture of
Jinnah and the Muslim League is very
one-sided; she gives no indication that the
forces and circumstances which made
Jinnah the supreme leader of the Muslims
were far more complex and fundamental
than Nehru or the leaders of the Congress
party were prepared to acknowledge.
India’s Untouchables are mentioned
several times, but there is no reference
to their most outstanding leader, Dr Am-
bedkar, who was a formidable critic of
both Gandhi and Nehru. In the ’thirties,
Subhas Chandra Bose was undoubtedly
Nehru's most serious rival for leadership
in Indian politics. Mrs Norman’s brief
account shows no awareness of Bose's
political stature or immense popularity.
She quotes Bose's high opinion of Nehru
without grasping its ironical intent (11,
561-62), but she gives no passage from
his famous accusatory letter of 1939. In-
stead, she gives Nehru's reply to this
letter (I, 617-21) with the rather fatuous
comment that it “lends insight into the
generous manner in which Nehru periodi-
cally has replied to even his most severe
critics”.
She also misses certain vita! links in
Nehru’s development because the latter
did not always acknowledge them. Thus,
in 1927, during his visit to the Soviet
Union Nehru met M. N. Roy who was
then the chief organiser and theoretician
of the Communist movement in India.
This is mentioned in the original version
of Nehru’s “Autobiography”, but left out
from its later American version, “To-
wards Freedom”. Nehru’s political ideas
owed a great deal to Roy (who later
broke with Communism and became
India’s most original exponent of demo-
cratic socialism). Contemporary accounts
in the Press suggest that Roy possibly had
a hand in drafting the historic resolution
on Fundamental Rights and Economic
Policy which was passed at the Karachi
session of the Congress in 1931. Mrs
Norman makes not a single reference to
Roy, nor does she include Roy’s highly
polemical book on Nehru in her biblio-
graphy.
In consequence of this attitude, her
commentaries are not always penetrating
or entirely reliable. She tends to play
down the self-contradictions in Nehru’s
character which, however, are übiquit-
ously evident in his speeches and writings.
Yet these contradictions were both the
strength and weakness of Nehru and
constituted his paradox. It is also rather
unfortunate that the selection should stop
at 1950. Nehru attained his full stature
only after Gandhi’s death, and at no
period did he exercise such decisive in-
fluence on Indian developments as during
the ’fifties.
SIBNARAYAN RAY
Remorseless Logic
The Bad Samaritan. Anne Rider. Bodley
Head. 20s.
Capitan China. Susan Yorke. Macdonald.
20s.
While not particularly eventful or ambi-
tious, “The Bad Samaritan” is a novel
of quiet distinction which despite its
brevity and uninviting appearance, has
attracted a great deal of notice. Anne
Rider’s primary concern is to examine the
behavior of her characters (centring on a
rich Anglo-Italian family in Rome) when
their orderly lives are disturbed by the
arrival of an old friend who has murder-
ed her husband. The story is unfolded
with remorseless logic and made im-
mensely readable by the elegance and bal-
ance of Miss Rider’s style.
“Capitan China”, set in Malaya during
the civil war of the 1870 s, follows the
improbable career of Kip Cha, a runaway
Chinese peasant girl who eventually be-
comes Princess Bright Pigeon, friend of
a Sultan, lover of an English soldier, and
secretary to the Capitan China himself.
As this suggests, it is a romantic story,
smoothly told and absorbing.
TOM PICKERING


*
:X'
' T -V, 'fl
m l i
~ ■
M
Ssfei|®s .4j{»u
, . Sm
il
i
m ."" M . „
pi- . r ‘J .'TMi
-, :™,r
£
-
■■■ :
■
iiiiiiffliaiii in
, SI
iPI
te'-V ;i
isilll aiSili^illp
- -
Liik ,m. i
|L 3s gi * ’«
r >.-n-
MT
Ceremonial Dreit, Papua-New Guinea
Plenti Balus i kum i go
IN New Guinea, at the northern end
of the vast TAA network, “Plenti
Balus i kum i go” (Many aeroplanes
come and go) is the tribute to the fre-
quency and regularity of TAA services.
This also applies to TAA’s one thousand
Services a week over 33,000 route miles
throughout Australia.
TAA is the world’s biggest domestic airline
outside North America, in terms of passenger
miles.
A TAA ticket can take you to almost
anywhere in Australia or Papua/New Guinea.
And the frequency of TAA services will
give you a flight time to suit you best;
Fly the friendly way
TAA
TH£ NATION'S J£WN£X |
Only TAA has Whispering T-Jeis
Contact your Travel Agent or phone TAA.
TAA ©250


The
Isle of Skye
Liqueur
Drambuie
Regd.
1
i
IBS**
e C|<Tfc*
gJ.%:
■ssUs^
liqueur
you prefer
to be offered
7423
06.102
Films Out of Focus
Introduction to the Art of the Movies. Lewis
Jacobs. Noonday Press. 19s. 6d.
Those who write about films tend to
develop a characteristic form of critical
presbyopia. Each generation of film critics
is purhlinded by nostalgia. They see only
the period of their initial enthusiasm for
the cinema which becomes for them the
Golden Age. Thus for Lewis Jacobs and
most of the writers in his compilation of
film criticism the movies attained dazzling
perfection in the late silent period. From
1930 on all is darkness, with only an
occasional glimmer such as that put forth
by “Citizen Kane”.
The contents of this book are culled
by Jacobs, author of a valuable history of
the early American cinema, from fugitive
periodicals, 1910-1959. To these the
editor has appended an introduction
which so thoroughly summarises the con-
tent of the essays which follow as to
make it unnecessary for the reader to
turn further pages.
Since this is a book on the Art of the
movies more than half of the articles
are devoted to that forbidding subject,
Film Theory. In 1910 this consisted in
pointing out all the advantages movies
had over live theatre. Some of these
early writers predicted that movies would
eventually supplant drama altogether.
Certainly they saw the relation of film to
play as being the same as that of gramo-
phone record to live performance. From
this primitive beginning Film Theory ad-
vanced to those formidable explorations
after the True Nature of Film still under-
taken by intellectuals who condescend to
notice the cinema today.
There is, however, the other third of
the book concerned with individual films
and individual directors. Among these
essays several are of interest: a long
analysis of Murnau’s “Sunrise”, and a
shorter one of “Citizen Kane”, notes on
Griffith, von Stroheim and Vigo.
It is of course fascinating to read
some of these early comments on the
movies. What is quite staggering is the
warmth, the apparently genuine excite-
ment with which such paretic efforts as
“The Battleship Potemkin” are written
about. A pity the editor did not take to
heart the lesson taught by one of his con-
tributors (evidently included by some
oversight) who says: “Pictures such as
‘The Cabinet of Dr Caligari’ are inter-
esting laboratory results in experimental
psychology, but they have as little to do
with the direct succession of the motion
picture as Madame Tussaud's has to do
with Rodin. ‘The Last Laugh’ and ‘The
Battleship Potemkin’ are technical ex-
plosions, important only in their power
to destroy old procedures and light the
path ahead.”
The movies began to approach being
an art only in the 'thirties, precisely the
period when this book starts to lose in-
terest. It is hardly the introduction one
would recommend. Almost all its
judgments are outdated twenty years
ago they would have been dead orthodox,
today they are dead. Von Sternberg, for
instance, is dismissed as greatly inferior
to von Stroheim, an unenlightened re-
versal of their true values. Even of
those directors working in the period so
lovingly dwelt on here, the ones who have
survived to the present time and proved
themselves to be cinema artists are notice-
ably missing Renoir and Hitchcock are
not even mentioned, Ford and Bunuel
passingly referred to.
Retitled, say, “A Survey of American
Film Critcism” this book could have
been welcomed as an interesting and use-
ful historical compilation; its uselessly
pretentious title precludes it from even
that modest distinction.
R. G. HOWARD
Jane
The startling pleasures all broke down.
It was her first arthritic spring.
Inside her furs, her bones, secure,
Suddenly became a source of pain
And froze on a Saturday afternoon
While she was listening to “La Boheme”.
Strength had been her weakness, and
Because it was. she got to like
The exhilaration of catastrophes
That prove our lives as stupid as we
think,
But pain, more stupid than stupidity,
Is an accident of animals in which, once
caught,
The distances are never again the same.
Yet there was another Jane in Jane:
She smelled the inside of a logarithm,
And felt a Gothic arch rise in her chest,
Her clavicle widening to bear the weight
Of the two smooth plumb lines of her
breasts,
The blueprints forming an enormous skirt
Around her body. Arch and star and
cross
Swung like little lights inside her head,
A church and temple rising from the
floor,
Nave and transept and an altar where,
Unbidden, she saw a kind of sacrifice,
The knife was in her hand, the stick, the
whip;
She cried at her cruelty and cried to be
Outside of her defences. An just then,
The windows buckled in, the paintings
cracked,
The furniture went walking by itself,
All out of her control. And it was pain
That let her know she was herself again:
She wore a cloak of fire on her skin,
And power, power floated up to her.
HOWARD MOSS


CHEVRON HOTEL’S
GOLDEN GRILL
Compliments your good taste
In an atmosphere of gracious
living, the food, cellar and service
are supreme. Whether in a hurry
or with time to tarry, the service
keeps pace with your wishes. A
snack, a sumptuous repast, a cof-
fee, an aperitif, all are available
from morn till midnight. The
menu is varied, reasonable in cost,
and handsomely presented. The
wine list is recognised as one of
the most comprehensive in Aus-
tralia. In the evening Alexander
Grant’s ensemble provides plea-
sant background music and invites
your personal request. The inex-
pensive luxury of the GOLDEN
GRILL is yours all day, every
day.
For table reservations phone 35.0433
CHEVRON HOTEL
MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY.
CHEV/19988
SCIENCE
OVRHAULS
WHILE-U-DRIVE
ADD IN PETROL OR OIL OR
PLUG HOLES
Up to 95% Sayings
By its expanding action INCREASES petrol
power, compression up to 15 lb. per cyl.
GOOD for thousands of miles. GUAR,
harmless to finest engine. Ovrhauls worn
main bearings, big ends, gudgeons, etc.,
noisy diffs, and gears.
• SAVES -U - EXPENSIVE rebore recon-
ditioning job.
• SAVES, ELIMINATES piston slap, rattles,
oil and petrol waste.
• SAVES carbon and desludging.
• SAVES ring wear and maintenance.
• SPREADS anti-friction expanding ad-
ditive between METAL to METAL sur-
OVRHAUL NU-Metal No. 4 contains a
secret formulated catalyst chemical.
CHARGES of action within the petrol
make it impossible to plug any fuel lines.
NOTHING can compete with Ovrhaul Nu-
Metal No. 4 success. No charge—No results
PROVEN. 1,2, 4,6, 8 cylds., 15/6, 30/-,
60/-, 70/-, 80/-. YOU DO NOT NEED AN
OIL CHANGE.
Paint your own car any color; 99/6.
indicate colour We also
sell WELDERS AND ELECTROPLATERS:
£lO each. Also FIT-RITE clear acrylic jelly
plastic. One application makes all dentures
fit-rite for life. Not a bulky substance or
powder; price 40/-. Open Saturday morn.
Sold only by Re-Nu Co. (estab. 1932), 58
Swan St., opp. Richmond Stn.. Victoria.
42-1755.
I enclose £ for
or send free
particulars on
including 2 for 1 selling campaign.
NAME
ADDRESS
.’•Bui.
Highbrow Beatnik
The Interrogation. J. M. G. Le Clezio.
Hamish Hamilton. 265. 6d.
“The Interrogation”, translated from
the French by Daphne Woodward, is
one of those self-consciously “different”
books that are sure of the most raptur-
ous acclaim in advanced French literary
circles. Though hailed as an original
talent, Le Clezio seems to me eclectic in
the extreme. In this his first book he
has written a fashionable anti-novel,
which owes a lot to the fictional theories
and practices of writers like Sartre and
Beckett and the new guard headed by
Robbe-Grillet.
In many ways Le Clezio is the oppo-
site of Remarque. His hero is a young
man named Adam Polio: Adam—
archetypal, I suppose; Polio—by way
of reference to Robinson Crusoe's parrot
in a quotation made in the novelist’s
preface, signifying, presumably, Adam's
loneliness and his inability to communi-
cate with the outside world. A cross
between a beat and a specimen from
the psychiatrist's casebook, Adam has
camped in a deserted house in a town
on the French Mediterranean coast
where he spends his time writing to his
girl Michele and trying to discover
whether he has deserted from the army
or escaped from a mental asylum. In
between times he wanders round the
town and lies on the beach; one of his
favorite pastimes is to follow a certain
dog. One whole chapter is devoted to
the hours spent trotting behind this dog
as he rambles round the town and,
finally, goes home for his evening meal.
Indeed, Adam has a partiality for ani-
mals; another chapter describes a day at
the zoo, where he discovers that “the
best way to mix with a species is to
make oneself desire a female member
of it'*, and yet another describes his
killing of an old white rat in the bil-
liard room of the house he occupies.
And so it goes on; personality is con-
tinually fragmenting or dissolving; Adam
is continually imagining himself to be
something else, through his “mythological
senses”—animal, vegetable, mineral, as
the mood takes him. Much of the book
is presented through the protagonist’s
consciousness, but the novelist himself
bobs up here and there and it is not
always easy to determine where one ends
and the other takes over. It seems as
if Le Clezio, like his hero, has an obses-
sion with insignificant detail, and a de-
sire to re-arrange nature, which results
in Salvador Dali landscapes.
Apart from its youthful pretentious-
ness “The Interrogation” is open to criti-
cism on the count already implied.
Adam is a manic-depressive personality
and the reader doesn't need to be a
psychiatrist to spot some of the symp-
toms, but he does need more controls
or further viewpoints within the novel
itself to enable him to see the signifi-
cance of it all. Adam is a muddle—
obviously—but it is the job of the nove-
list to make this muddle clear, to give
it some meaning. This illumination
might be expected in the final long
scene, the interrogation of Adam by the
medical students in the mental hospital,
but it doesn't emerge even there.
R. G. GEERING
Guest and Host
Strange, that for a generation now,
Since boy 1 climbed the green and bearing
tree,
Alone with my compulsion and my vow,
My pencil plucking words and, on my
knee.
Noble the notebook opened for such use,
I have word after word drawn closer in
To all men who, desiring, learn to lose
Yet fiercely live with that as their one
way to win.
Strange, because this leaning pulled aside
My bough from other bending boughs,
pursuit
From game apart (in that green play-
ground), hide
And seek in half, the climber from the
fruit,
And friends stood taunting till I word-
less threw
Down to their understanding at no cost
The sweet berries my tree so better grew,
And gaily was made guest then giving
less than most.
And thus it seemed the whole world rose
around,
Shutting my difference needfully out
When the greater citizenry of sound
Gave me community in its redoubt,
Shutting the difference as simply in
When, the voice of my own gift in my
throat,
I versed themes lodged with that same
host of men
Who never or but vaguely heard my
largest note.
But they today and I, by unleaved trees
1 hat tower too hard and high, have
reached the size
And savage age of our equalities,
Words fallen short, sweet fruits no
further prize,
Our meeting real (as wanted in the past)
Because, whoever speaks, each having
lost,
All listen being all together cast,
One giving and receiving ready guest and
host.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Shocks in Electricals
Dad debts, discount houses, excessive
trade-in allowances and cut-throat
trading are causing real headaches in the
electrical appliance trade. Known some-
times as the “gimmick” trade, the elec-
trical appliance business is no stranger
to fierce trading and knock-down-drag-
out competition for sales. Nonetheless
it has been jolted by the remarkable dis-
closures of bad debts recently, plus a
renewed round of price-cutting.
The public appears to be avoiding its
liabilities on a scale that is staggering,
no doubt encouraged by examples of
how others got away with it.
Agitation is now taking place for a
tightening of legislation to protect the
consumer from unwise purchases. Mr
S. W. Begg, a Melbourne solicitor,
pointed out at the recent convention of
the Victorian Institute of Sales'Manage-
ment that high-pressure selling was the
real evil by getting around the minimum
deposits required by law. The un-
scrupulous salesmen and the gullible
but often also unscrupulous consumer
conspire together to fake a transaction
so it appears to comply with the require-
ments on minimum deposits. The laws
do not prevent over-selling but simply
penalise the retailer or financier.
It is becoming increasingly clear that
the pressuring of a gullible purchaser
into buying an article “for a few shillings
a week” has created a chain reaction.
As a result, there is a growing aware-
ness among the finance and retail houses
that the natural desire to promote sales
is encouraging a situation where the
customer cannot, or will not, pay.
Mr Begg claims that financiers and
retailers are at fault in tolerating too
high a level of dishonesty. All minimum-
deposit provisions make it an offence for
a salesman knowingly to procure a hirer
to enter into a hire-purchase agreement
where the required deposit had not been
obtained. Yet, “whoever heard of a sales-
man being prosecuted for procuring the
transaction?” Mr Begg asks.
This must cause some soul-searching
among responsible retailers when they
consider the advertising of exceptional
trade-in benefits.
The harassed retailer, with high over-
head costs, is getting the backwash both
ways. If a salesman oversells and the
customer refuses to pay, the retailer has
the problem on his hands of repossessing
goods which may have a relatively poor
resale value. Or, if he sues the customer
as a debtor for goods sold on term
deposit, he has to face legal costs, delays,
or skip-outs.
Also, the retailer has to contend with
discount houses, direct sales or com-
petition from large bulk buyers, who dis-
regard the list prices which many of the
reputable manufacturers have tried to
maintain.
At the back of all this is the un-
pleasant truth that Australia has a sur-
plus manufacturing capacity in electrical
appliances and the public has been
educated to seek a “cut” from the list
price by way of trade-in (a clothes peg)
or a special concession for cash.
Trying to maintair list prices has
proved disastrous on occasion for the
“good guys” who attempt to stick to
the code. As a result, the less gimmicky
dealers say they would prefer to have
realistic selling prices rather than
ridiculous trade-ins.
Those who want to see more realistic
retailing at reduced prices are anxious
to see the abandonment (or at least less
emphasis) on trade-ins, whereas the hard-
driving salesmen say that the public
wants to be wooed with advertising and
encouraged to get rid of the old ap-
pliance at a trade-in value which is hard
to resist. The hard sell, of course, is to
convince people not tG get by with what
they have but to buy the latest model.
Otherwise sales would stagnate.
On facts and figures and performance,
it is hard to argue against the aggressive
retailers because they are spending time
E. A. EDWARDS
Federal Chairman, Aust. Hire Purchase
Conference.
and money and effort to prod the public
into a sale.
Ideally, the public would get better
value on low-priced quality products
which do not have to bear heavy selling
costs and which can be paid for. But
the struggle to sell appliances on a
heavily-supplied market at a time when
money is tightening suggests that more
bad debts and more retail casualties must
be expected.
Orderly marketing, as proved in the
television trade when manufacturers
saturated the market, is where the other
fellow does the right thing while you
undercut him.
There is certainly considerable need
for the recall to senses sounded by the
NSW Minister for Justice, Mr J. C.
Maddison. Speaking to the Australian
Hire Purchase and Finance Conference
in Sydney, Mr Maddison somewhat
bitingly observed that “various interests
in commerce should take it upon them-
selves to look to profitability as a god
rather than turnover”.
He also found it necessary to remark
how “the quality of management can-
not be overlooked as a contributory
factor, at least in some cases”.
To compensate for his very direct
criticism, Mr Maddison promised a
revision of the outmoded garnishee
system in NSW in order to facilitate the
collection of small debts, especially in
hire purchase.
“Cankers in Consumer Credit” are
further discussed by “Croesus” on page
61.
Tasmanian Iron
VI/'estern Australia has, justifiably,
claimed the major share of public
attention for Australia's extraordinary
prospects in iron ore export and even for
the eventual chance of launching a second
steel industry. Closely similar possibili-
ties in Tasmania tend to be forgotten.
Yet the Savage River Iron Ore Project
now issues regular progress reports. Just
like WA, local interests are here allied
with impressive overseas giants in this
case Pickands Mather of USA and the
Japanese Mitsubishi Shoji Kaisha.
In the light of forecast restrictions on
overseas capital, the latest report con-
tains one particularly heartening para-
graph: “While the effects of President
Johnson’s programme for reducing US
dollar outflows are not yet fully known,
recent discussions carried out in the US
by Pickands Mather officials indicate that
most of the £29 million capital that would
be required by the project will be avail-
able from USA sources, as tentatively
arranged before the President's pro-
gramme was put into effect.”
Mitsubishi is sharing in the develop-
ment programme costs, currently run-
ning at about £lOO,OOO a month. Evi-


Reply from the A.-G.
“The Bulletin” on restrictive practices
By B. M. SNEDDEN
B. M. SNEDDEN
dence for the ultimate decision on the
mining and palletising operation is
expected to be ready by October.
, Plans for pellet exports are still being
examined in Japan, while Pickands
Mather continues to test procedures to
overcome the “minute but troublesome
quantities of titanium and of nickel’’
contained in the Savage River ore.
UK and US Markets
Tnvestment caution and stock ex-
change reluctance were far from con-
fined to Britain and America last week.
Most Continental exchanges conveyed a
very dull appearance.
With this pervasive atmosphere it
rates fairly cheerfully when a leading
Australian sharebroker can discern a
firmer undertone locally, chiefly on the
strength of “long-term investors who
are committing part of their funds to
the market”.
Wall Street appears to be dragging out
what the experts have called its correc-
tive process and quite a few analysts
are becoming bearish. Predictions of a
slow-down in the US economy by the
end of 1965 are more frequent. They
may be heightened by an Administration
suggestion that price increases through-
out the economy could retard planned
economic stimulation.
Friday did happen to see some ground
recovered, especially among the leaders,
though autos and steels are still under
suspicion.
Overhanging all London dealings is
the shadow of the credit squeeze. That
also gains considerable exacerbation
from repeated doubts on sterling and
the balance of payments.
One broker has gone counter to the
general agreement on the harmful effects
of the new corporation tax. Yet the
common impression sends equities lower,
with even ICI drifting in spite of good
quarterly figures.
I have read with interest the comments
on the Trade Practices Bill contained in
several articles in The Bulletin of
May 29, 1965. I feel obliged to point
out that there are certain comments in
these articles which are misleading in that
they:
(1) contain erroneous statements as to
to what is provided in the Bill, or
(2) draw conclusions not supported by
the provisions of the Bill.
Erroneus statements as to what is
provided in the Bill
1. There are several statements to the
effect that the Tribunal, when examining
an agreement or practice, will sit in
camera. Clause 73 makes it quite clear
that the hearings of the Tribunal must
be conducted in public. The Bill does
provide that, where special circumstances
exist, the Tribunal may sit in camera.
2. On page 14, there is a statement
that “all the public will hear will, pre-
sumably, be the Tribunal's findings”.
Clause 49(2.) requires the Tribunal, when
making a determination, to state the
reasons for its opinion that the restriction
or practice is, or is not, contrary to the
public interest.
3. There is a statement on page 13 to
the effect that the practice of retail price
maintenance is “simply examinable”. In
its context, the word “simply” conveys
the meaning that this practice is not
registrable. The true position under the
Bill is that a multilateral agreement for
resale price maintenance is both examin-
able and registrable. If there is no multi-
lateral agreement standing behind the
practice, it is neither examinable nor
registrable—except that it could, in some
circumstances, be examinable as one
aspect of a practice of monopolisation.
4. On page 60, there is a statement
that “the Commissioner, and then the
Tribunal in turn, must settle all conten-
tious matters rather than the letter of
the law”. It is the function of the Tri-
bunal to. “determine”, not to “settle”
matters brought before it. See clause
49(1.).
Conclusions not supported by the
provisions of the Bill
5. On page 13 it is stated that “the
public cannot complain at all and has no
access to the Commissioner”. This con-
clusion is not warranted by the mere
absence of provisions for a formalised
complaint procedure. It is to be pre-
sumed that members of the public will
make complaints to the Commissioner
and that the Commissioner will take such
action in relation to the complaints as
appears to him to be appropriate. How-
ever, it must be borne in mind that many
complaints will relate to acts which are
mere manifestations of examinable
agreements. It would be futile for the
Commissioner to deal with such com-
plaints in isolation from the agreement
upon which they depend. His main con-
cern will be with that agreement. A
determination that it is contrary to the
public interest will lead to an automatic
crumbling of its manifestations.
6. On page 13, there is a statement
that the Bill “makes no provision what-
ever for the public to be heard in its own
case”. While the Bill contains no pro-
vision enabling a member of the public to
institute proceedings before the Tribunal,
it does not follow that such a member of
the public will have no opportunity of
expressing his views to the Tribunal.
He may, in some circumstances, do so
as a witness called by the Commissioner,
or, where he has some special interest of
his own, he may seek the leave of the
Tribunal to present his views as an in-
tervener. The provision enabling a per-
son to obtain permission to intervene is
contained in clause 77(3.). In any event,
a member of the public will be able to
place his views before the Commissioner
who, in turn, will be able to place them
before the Tribunal.
7. After referring on page 14 to the
need for the President of the Tribunal to
have legal qualifications and to the fact
that, when'sitting he will have by his side
two persons qualified by reason of their
know-how in business, industry or public
administration, there is the comment
“How many other members there would
be Mr Snedden did not say”. The impli-
cation in this comment that a Division
of the Tribunal may consist of more than
one Presidential Member and two other
Members is not supported by any pro-
vision in the Bill. The basic provision
in this regard is contained in clause
18(1.).
8. There is a statement on page 60
which implies that “a gentleman’s agree-
ment” will not be subject to the legisa-
tion. This implication is not justified. I
draw attention to clause 91(5.) which
states that “A reference to an agreement
shall be read as including a reference to
an agreement that is not enforceable by
legal proceedings, whether or not it was
intended to be so enforceable”.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
The Proper Highroads
For Exports
Sir John Allison lets out the clutch
nTALKiNG to the Australian Manufac-
turers’ Export Council in Melbourne
last week, Sir John Allison left nobody in
doubt as to the magnitude of the task
ahead of Australia in the export field.
Projecting the needs in ten years’ time,
that is by 1974-75, he postulated certain
assumptions.
Sir John thought the first of these
should be that we want to achieve an
average annual growth rate of at least
5 p.c. in real terms over the ten-year
period. Then, if we spend 13 p.c. of
GNP on imports to sustain that growth,
if our internal prices and import prices
rise by as little as one p.c. a year and
if we allow for a modest increase of £lO
million a year in capital inflow and seek
to hold reserves of about £7OO million,
the present swag, Sir John reckons that
in 1974-75 we will need exports of
roughly £2500 million, a figure compar-
ing with exports of possibly £l3OO
million this year.
No doubt you can make other assump-
tions and come out with different figures,
he said, but “no matter how we look at
the situation, if we want to achieve a
reasonably rapid economic growth, then
we shall have to reach something like
this level of exports by 1974-75, roughly
double our present rate of export earn-
ings.” Basic to success in this task, he
said, will be to increase GNP by more
than 50 p.c. in the ten years.
Foremost within this growth of GNP
he is looking to a tremendous increase in
primary production (at present this con-
tributes about 85 p.c. of exports; of last
year’s £l3Bl million exports, wool ac-
counted for 35.5 p.c., wheat and flour
15, meat 9, sugar 5.8, dairy produce 3.3,
manufactures 11.5 and other items 19.9
p.c.). When he thinks of primary pro-
duction increases, Sir John says he has
mostly in mind the possibilities arising
from “beef roads, of spear grass country,
of brigalow reclamation, of channel
country, of tremendous iron ore and
bauxite developments —in short, the
north”.
He admits to having become “blind” in
respect of the possibilities for production
from the north. So at least here is one
responsible citizen (he is, of course, chair-
man of the Export Development Council
among a lot of other things) who has
apparently turned the pages of B. R.
Davidson's “The Northern Myth” and
found them wanting. Unfortunately, Sir
John had little to say on the possibilities
for export markets for primary produc-
tion. It cannot be taken for granted that
even the export levels for primary pro-
duction achieved last year can easily be
repeated, though the speaker seemed to
imply that they could be greatly exceed-
ed. His explanation of the uplift in
exports in recent years suggested the
foundations for this were already laid.
Thus, “the remarkable expansion of
exports from £BlO million in 1957-58 to
SIR JOHN ALLISON
£l3BO million in 1963-64 was not just an
accident of prices and seasons”, he stated.
“True, they had some part, but it was
largely the result of a balancing of re-
sources between local and overseas needs,
improved access to overseas markets
which themselves had rising consumption
requirements, growing export conscious-
ness within Australia, and a strong de-
sire to venture into overseas markets as
a result of the export incentives and
other encouragement given to the Aus-
tralian businessmen.” All this would seem
to understate the fortuitous elements in
the exports boom of the last two years.
Sir John was perhaps being a little
more realistic when saying he thought
manufacturing exports could be raised
from last year’s £154 million to at least
£3OO million a year by 1974-75. The
latter would be the required figure,
assuming that manufacturers keep
roughly to last year's 11.5 p.c. they rep-
resented of Australia’s total exports. How-
ever, to achieve this will mean that Aus-
tralian industries will have to plan now
for export growth and not sit back on the
soft cushion of the limited home market.
Admittedly there are some good pros-
pects, as we saw last week in the case of
steel. Overall, as Sir John stated, “many
manufacturers, preoccupied as they are
with the Australian market, do not have
the productive capacity for continuing ex-
porting in quantity if local demand even
slightly exceeds forecasts.”
As BHP has found, you can't develop
long-term export markets when the
availability of supplies for export are
determined by the fortuitous course of
home demand. Sir John has got the logis-
tics right in advocating the building of
special capacity to cater for exports and
to couple this with vigorous efforts to
penetrate overseas markets as a national
policy. But one would like to see a lot
more discussion on shouldering the bur-
den this would place on individual com-
panies, especially those who might find it
is easier to build the capacity than to get
the export markets.
From the individual manufacturer’s
viewpoint this is largely a chicken and egg
affair. Which comes first, the building
up of export capacity or the assault on
markets without capacity enough to serve
them? This has been BHP’s dilemma and
there is no short cut through it in an
economy subject to periodic bursts in
home demand followed by long periods
when capacity is not fully employed.
Sir John shirk the problem,
even if on this occasion he simply posed
it. “We must now commence, as a matter
of great urgency,” he says, “to look at
ways of encouraging manufacturers to
instal capacity aimed primarily at ex-
port markets.” He left the matter there
and then switched his attention to the
other side of the problem, implying per-
haps that market chickens have to come
a little ahead of production eggs.
Perhaps the Export Development
Council will eventually come up with the
answer and make some firm recommenda-
tion to the Government on the matter. At
the moment, with capital goods industries
going flat out to meet the rising demands
of fixed investment, it is hard to see
where the resources would come from to
superimpose an extra layer for “export
production only” on present industrial
capacity. When home demand subsides


from present peaks, no doubt some capa-
city will be uncovered and be available
for export production, but that is not
quite the same thing.
At any rate, on the export promotion
side Sir John expounded a range of inade-
quacies in our facilities and approach.
For instance, though we have improved
export finance facilities, he said, we lack
long-term facilities. Again, we have as
yet to find a solution to meeting competi-
tion based on the system of tied loans
used by many countries to secure export
trade, particularly in Asian and African
markets. Equally, he doubts strongly
whether our port facilities will be up to
the job of catering for a massive increase
in exports. The provision of additional
incentives to exporters is another crucial
matter and he also advocates that special
funds should be set aside on a regular
basis for public works designed to assist
exporters. Finally, he spoke of the old
problem of export franchises. He thinks
this is still one of the most significant
trading obstacles.
Allison is a great believer in co-opera-
tive efforts between firms and trade as-
sociations in the export field; in a word,
of the joint venture, and saw great pos-
sibilities in this approach. He also asked
the pertinent question: “Why should we
not launch a thorough, critical study of
our production methods and management
processes?”
On this we couldn't do better than to
enlist the services of a certain Swedish
production and management expert, Curt
Nicolin, who, with Dr Marcus Wallen-
burg and a small group of Swedish in-
dustrialists, has recently been looking us
over. These gentlemen have been here to
pave the way for a big expansion in the
Australian operations of the giant Swed-
ish ASEA group which has so far sup-
plied all 22 of the generators for the
Snowy Mountains project, and whose
subsidiary in Melbourne, already a size-
able producer of electric motors and
other equipment, is being geared for
rapid expansion. Nicolin found time to
tell The Bulletin where he thought Aus-
tralia was slipping in its approach to be-
coming a force in world markets for
manufactured goods.
He believes success in exporting manu-
factures is best achieved by specialisation
on a small group of products, building up
large-scale production to. provide a steady
surplus available for export and going all
out to develop markets on that basis. In
his view, Australian industry was diversi-
fying too widely and in the process was
being raped by the law of comparative
costs. In serving the cause of import re-
placement we were courting the develop-
ment of too many relatively high-cost
industries and missing out on economics
of scale.
This is happening not only on a
national scale but, also, far too many
companies were trying to spread their
wings in too many directions, and having
their time and attention diverted from
their main activities. His own prescrip-
tion, which he has applied ruthlessly to
the Wallenburg enterprises in Sweden in
recent years, is to cut down the activities
of particular companies to the bare essen-
tials of producing a small range of
specialist products on a large scale. Mr
Charles E. Taylor, who recently arrived
here from New Zealand to be managing
director of ASEA (Aust.), told me Nico-
lin’s name has become a by-word for in-
dustrial efficiency in Western Europe. Sir
John Allison and his Export Development
Council should get him to lunch next
time he visits us. He is a director of
ASEA (Aust.).
CROESUS
Cankers in Consumer Credit
The vice of high-pressure selling
T7alues in economic terms being ex-
" pressed in money, the science makes
no distinction in its judgments between
those producing actual goods and those
simply rendering services. Scientifically
this is just as well, because the shades
between the two are infinitely various.
Without this money measure economists
would have to shut up shop.
Readers of this column may have
gleaned before this that it is on the side
of producers of goods rather than on the
other. Production on the factory floor
and on the farm seems so much more
fundamental than clipping tram tickets,
dealing in stocks and shares, writing
articles and so forth, however necessary
all these pursuits may be to the general
economic weal. In a word, Croesus feels
the white-collar workers get a rather
better deal in the dispensation of econo-
mic rewards than they relatively deserve.
Most people would like to kick against
the pattern of rewards as determined by
the intermixture of historical, conven-
tional and day-to-day forces at work in
the community. One is always peeping
behind the pattern of money rewards and
prices for a better understanding of the
play of these forces, inquiring why this
or that occupation or person should be
in the position of having a bigger claim
on the current stream of goods and ser-
vices than others. Of course the search
for a rationale leads nowhere, except
into the slough of despond and irritation.
You can finish up a reluctant acceptor
of the world as it is, not what it should
possibly be—reserving your outbursts of
revolt, say, for people simply making
money out of money.
Those who’ve been following Croesus
in his economic exercises over the years
will know that he sees red every time he
looks at the hire-purchase business. It
is not that he fails to appreciate the value
of HP in oiling the economic works; that
it, possibly more than any other single
business facility, is responsible for lever-
ing Australian industry from infancy to
maturity in the last decade. It is simply
that, stripped of their fine clothes, HP
financiers are money-lenders, making
their profit by borrowing from the public
and lending back to a different section of
the public at exorbitant rates and spend-
ing far too much of their time com-
plaining that they are not making enough.
The more the HP men are screwed down
by legislation and are denied the luxury
of ostentation, the better the chances are
of instalment credit eventually being
rationalised in the community interest.
So while the usefulness of consumer
credit to the economy and the community
is acknowledged, far too high a premium
is put on it in relation to the rewards
going to the general run of services and
production achieved elsewhere in the
system. Maybe the making of fortunes
in the industry during the last ten years
is over and, as legislative pressures in-
tensify, the community cost of render-
ing this service could fall to a level in
keeping with its social worth. But the
process should be speeded.
It should be said at once that no
reflection on employees in the hire-
purchase industry here is intended. From
managers to office boys they probably
work as hard as anybody. lam getting
rather at the high community cost of
providing instalment credit and the con-
sequent drain on resources involved in
it, having long felt that this service could
well be provided by the banking system
proper. That course, incidentally, would
end all the arguments about the fringe
financiers not coming under Reserve
Bank surveillance and also ensure a much
sounder distribution of consumer credit.
More about that in a moment.
What riles the writer most is the open
go we give to overseas companies opera-
ting in the local hire-purchase field.
Considering the recent flap about foreign-
owned firms borrowing local capital for
their Australian operations and also fears
about future strains of dividend remit-
tances on the balance of payments, this
seems all the more incredible —whether
we take the direct operations of, say,
Lombard Banking, General Motors Cor-
poration or the ES and A through local


FOR SALE
VHF Radio Communication System complete incl.
50W. Base Station Transmitter-Receiver, 5 mobile
TOW. Transmitter-Receiver Units and 100 Mast and
Aerial. All in perfect condition. Suitable country
area outside 30 mile radius of Melbourne.
Reply Box 34 Sth. Oakleigh P.O. Phone 544 4022
A/H 92 1565.
SYDNEY GRAMMAR SCHOOL
College Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The following appointments will be made from
January, 1966, or, in special circumstances, from
September, 1965.
1. man with a good degree to teach Econo-
mics and Accountancy throughout the Middle
and Upper School including Sixth Form spe-
cialist work. Teaching experience not essential.-
Accommodation may be available for a single
man.
2. EITHER (i) a man with a good degree to teach
Geography throughout the Middle
and Upper School, including Sixth
Form specialist work.
OR (ii) a graduate to teach Geography and
History in the Middle and Upper
School.
In either case accommodation may be available
for a single man.
The point of entry to the salary scale depends
upon qualifications and experience. Permanent
members of the staff participate in the N.S.W.
State Superannuation Scheme.
Applications should be made in writing to the
Headmaster, giving full details of career, quali-
fications, sporting and other extra-curricular
interests, and the names of two referees.
HP subsidiaries, or, say, the ANZ Bank
through its big and increasing stake in
lAC Holdings.
Heavens knows, the case of General
Motors Acceptance is painful enough,
because this concern, directly owned by
General Motors Corporation in US, gets
the lion’s share of HP financing of sales
of Holdens, by far the biggest seller on
the Australian market. This company
draws heavily on short-term local finance,
which it obtains on most favorable terms
because of its great strength and the
backing of the powerful US parent, which
receives all the profits.
But the case of Lombard, which to the
tune of strong outcry became a wholly
owned subsidiary of Lombard Banking,
UK, when the Australian participation in
its equity was bought out in 1962, is
equally as bad, even if the scale of its
operations is smaller than GMAC. Here
we have a company, whose whole busi-
ness is making money out of money for
the benefit of overseas shareholders,
being allowed to raise £500,000 in the
local market despite the Federal Trea-
surer’s recent intimation that the “mark
time” in such capital-raising would be
replaced by surveillance of it by the Re-
serve Bank. Surely, if any issues of local
capital to overseas-owned concerns are
to be ruled out, this type of issue should
be at the top of the list. If this sort of
issue is allowed to get through, the Re-
serve Bank can't be taking Mr Holt’s
orders very seriously.
Official monetary policy is aimed
obliquely to influence the level of such
business but, as Mr R. B. Cameron, of
the Australian Bankers’ Association re-
search directorate, reminded the National
Convention of Credit Management in
Melbourne last week, higher interest rates
have not lately proved a deterrent to the
finance companies to chase business.
“Many intermediaries are becoming in-
creasingly active in their approach to the
public for funds at the higher rates need-
ed,” he stated.
Indeed, the impression is given that,
despite the general liquidity squeeze,
finance remains readily available through-
out the range of finance companies, but,
especially at the nether end, financiers
catering for poor credit risks and con-
doning all sorts of nefarious practices in
accepting new business are having to pay
increasingly high risk-loaded interest
rates. The real question is whether the
community can afford to let the un-
bridled provision of finance for worthless
credit risks go unchecked be it in HP
business financed by non-retail finance
companies or by retail companies them-
selves. Some of the latter, of course,
R. B. CAMERON
have obviously been sinning madly in
financing weak customers on various
varieties of credit terms to foster sales
in recent years, though that field is a
subject in itself.
Seeking the root of the trouble in
credit selling, in his paper “The Law and
the Sale of Goods” to the Credit Con-
vention, Mr S. W. Beggs, a Melbourne
solicitor, pointed the main bone at sales-
men. In his view, “It has become almost
traditional to blame the finance company
and the retailer, but I think the real
bogeyman is the salesman. Without
wishing to cast reflections on the majority
of salesmen of responsibility and in-
tegrity, there are at least a substantial
minority of salesmen who border on con-
fidence tricksters. The unscrupulous
salesman, and the gullible but often also
unscrupulous consumer, conspire together
to take the transaction, so that it appears
to the finance company (particularly) or
retailer to comply with the requirements
as to minimum deposits.
“It is all very well that retailers and
financiers should be responsible for the
actions of the salesmen who create their
business, but I think that the primary
sanction should rest on the salesman, and
this sanction should be policed and en-
forced. And the finance companies and
the retailers themselves should do more
to see that this is done,” Mr Beggs said.
It is quite possible to admit the con-
tention that stamp duties and other things
have pushed up costs of the HP com-
panies to heights where the business is on
the verge of unprofitability. For this
reason the movement begun five years or
more ago by many of the companies to
get into a wide variety of other fields of
financing, such as mortgages, leasing,
factoring and so on has accelerated. More
and more of the big companies have
joined in. For instance, one of the more
recent, General Credits, which used al-
most exclusively to write motor business,
has diversified to an extent (particularly
on the agricultural side) that under the
enlightened hand of Mr D. G. McOmish
its image has been transformed in the
space of only a couple of years or so.
This movement away from HP has
been prompted not only by strict busi-
ness calculations but also by a genuine
desire of the better companies to put a
firmer stamp on their respectability.
Whatever the motive, it has had the
effect of widening the area of HP busi-
ness open to the less respectable firms to
whom business of whatever kind is the
primary consideration, where a blind eye
is turned to the practice of “stacking-up”
and the credit standing of hirer counts
for nothing. In the result, while the Hire
Purchase Conference companies can pro-
bably claim with justification that they
are sound, substantial and respectable,
the truth is that they represent a
diminishing area of the hire-purchase
field. If is in the outer areas of the field
where a clean-up is now most necessary.
In default of it, the plague of bad debts
which has hit the NSW retail trade could
be made appear but a mild epidemic.
What is the answer? At least one
avenue open, as Dr N. Runcie of the
University of NSW suggested to the
Credit Convention, is for members of
the public to combine in credit unions to
do their own HP financing. In the words
of Alphonse Desjardins, “A credit union
is not an ordinary financial concern seek-
ing to enrich its members at the expense
of the general public. Neither is it a
loan company seeking to make a profit
at the expense of unfortunates—it is the
expression in the field of economics of
a high social ideal.” The same can
hardly be said for the high-pressure cre-
dit selling which dominates the credit
commercial scene in Australia.


In 1955
Cessna delivered
the first
Model 172
00
This year, on
April 20th
they delivered
the 10,000 th!
. „ - A'V V.
Today, more Cessna 172’s are flown than any
other aircraft in the world.
Cruising at a handy 130 m.p.h. the 172 will carry
four adults up to 720 miles in armchair comfort.
Quickly, smoothly and very economically.
Depending on how much you use it, your Cessna
172 can cost you as little as 10d. per mile to
operate. And that includes everything petrol,
oil, maintenance, insurance, depreciation, the lot!
For instance, did you know you can get better
than 20 miles to the gallon with a Cessna? (Re-
member, too, that 20 air miles can take you a lot
further than 20 road miles.)
Isn’t it time you looked into the sound economics
of investing in a Cessna? It could save you a
lot of money.
And, anyway, it’s fun to fly!
Any of these Cessna dealers will be delighted to
prove it to you.
essna
AIRLEANDA, Port Moresby, T.N.G. • BARRIER AIR TAXIS PTY. LTD.,
Broken Hill, N.S.W. • CAMPBELL AIRCRAFT SALES PTY. LTD., Maitland
and Mudgee, N.S.W. • GOSS-AIR TAXIS PTY. LTD., Cunnamulla, Qid. •
PENTECOST AVIATION, Noumea, New Caledonia • MASLING AVIATION
PTY. LTD., Cootamundra, Bourke, Coonamble and Wagga, N.S.W. • REX
AVIATION (QLD.) PTY. LTD., Brisbane and Charleville, Qld. • REX AVIATION
SALES (N.S.W.) PTY. LTD., Sydney . ROSS AVIATION PTY. LTD., Adelaide,
S.A. • SCHUTT AIRCRAFT PTY. LTD., Melbourne and Geelong, Vic. •
SIMPSON AVIATION PTY. LTD., Perth, W.A.
R5B


After the Dough Is Rising
Bakers discuss higher bread price
"Producing millions of loaves of bread
a year in NSW is a good exercise
in management, economics and logistics.
It would therefore seem that, to be a
profitable business, these factors are un-
der control. How untrue those state-
ments are.
In the first place the production o
bread according to the industry, carr.es
title, . any, profit. Some bakers have
been estimated to earn profits of between
nine and 29 p.c. Taken all over, how-
ever, the true margin seems to lie in the
4 p.c. region. Some run their baking
operations on a break-even basis or at
a loss. Since the introduction of longer
baking hours recently it seems fair to
say that those bakers who previously
broke even now operate in the red.
Another reason the bread industry is in
a tenuous profit position is, as the chair-
man of George Weston Foods Ltd, Mr
A. G. Parker, said recently, “the com-
pletely unrealistic control of bread prices
in the light of changed marketing con-
ditions". George Weston, probably
NSW’s biggest baker, runs the Tip Top
chain of bakeries.
Suppliers of 75 p.c. of Sydney’s bread
are the big five—George Weston, George
Fielder (Procera bread), Hackshalls (Sun-
shine), Gillespie Brothers (Cobbity Farm),
and Allied Mills (Buttercup). Most of
these bakers are also flour millers. Their
entry into baking operations started in
the 1950 s when takeovers led to many
small bakeries disappearing into their
control,
For most 0 f the big five it was a neees-
sary step In the face of failing flour
exports they had to find other outlets
, heir products and so turned to
baking. It is apparent today that they are
stuck with baking to absorb their Hour
duction If th were to relinquish
£ would be
. 05 v
in a worse position, with highly expensive
machinery having to be amortised or
’Co-
This delicate balance between produc-
tion, surplus, and profit and loss is lead-
ing to the likelihood of yet another bread
price rise in NSW. In December last
year, the price rose Id. This was of
some consolation to the metropolitan
area bakers, but not to others. Country
bakers, for instance, were not granted a
price increase. Now both city and
country bakers are preparing claims to be
presented to the Prices Commissioner in
ver y near f uture -
What they will ask for is not known,
but industry observers expect it to be
about Hd. a loaf in the country and Id.
a loaf in the city. What will happen if
bakers are not granted the increases is
anybody’s guess. Where can economies
be made? At the present price of
Is. 64d. a tw f o pound loaf the money goes
this way: wages in production 1.9 d.; plant
running costs 1.78 d.; administrative costs
1.12 d.; delivery costs 4.98 d.; ingredients
7.391 d. This leaves 1.329 d. a loaf for
the manufacturers, who claim that
practically all this is dispersed in shop-
keeper rebates and discounts and con-
cessions to carters.
As the NSW Bread Manufacture and
Delivery Act compels bakers to deliver
to homes within three miles of their
operations, on demand, it is unlikely de-
livery costs could be trimmed, unless, of
course, the number of bakeries was re-
duced. Production costs seem to be at
a minimum with automation and mecha-
nisation at its economic maximum. About
the only money-saving avenue left to
bakers seems to be to cut ddwn on the
cost of ingredients. This is most unlikely
because, firstly the quality of bread would
suffer, and, secondly, ingredients show no
sign of a downturn in price.
It is therefore inevitable that the price
of bread will rise.
Streamlining of bakery operations has
brought with it changing tastes in bread.
Today fancy breads, while not necessarily
profitable, are becoming increasingly
popular with consumers. Pre-sliced and
wrapped bread is becoming more popular
daily. It is estimated that 65 p.c. of
bread sold is sliced and wrapped. Five
years ago the figure was about 20 p.c.
The question of wrapped bread related
to short baking hours raises the question
of quality. The director of the Bread
Research Institute, Mr Eric Bond, says
limited baking hours mean bread must be
force cooled from 450 F to 90F before
wrapping. Forced cooling, says -Mr
Bond, reduces the quality of the bread.
This position has been somewhat allevia-
ted by the recent introduction of ex-
tended baking hours, which give pro-
ducers an extra 6\ hours a week to bake
bread.
The starting hours in NSW now are:
Monday 2 a.m. (eight-hour span); Tues-
day 3.30 (71 hours); Wednesday 3.30 (7
hours); Thursday 3.30 (7i hours); Friday
midnight (10 hours).
Mr Sydney J. Packham, president of
the Bread Manufacturers of NSW, said
the recently increased hours “are quite
satisfactory as far as bakers and unions
are concerned. But it does not mean
that the baking industry in NSW is any
better off than it was previously. In
NSW the baking industry is worse off
than in any other State in Australia.
“There is no money in the game in
NSW due to the unrealistic price adjust-
ment last December. The whole trade in
both city and country is not happy with
the present price position.”
Undoubtedly the advent of pre-sliced
and wrapped .bread has been partly the
cause of lower indicated per capita con-
sumption in Australia. In 1954-55 Aus-
tralians were eating 156.9 lb a head; in
1962-63 the figure had fallen to 142.6 lb


The system that fits only your business...
■BHe r atS!
Sk
Y
m
m jf?
'M
-
4
4,
This is your system—a one-business
system because it fits only your
business. Your business is individual.
This system was designed for you,
tailored for you individually at NCR,
This is no other firm's system.
When you buy an NCR Accounting
Machine you get more than just
the hardware. You also get sound,
practical advice based on the
accumulated, experience and ideas of
NCR Systems Research teams. They
tailor business systems to meet your
changing needs.
Many accounting problems are too
complex to be met on a single-
handed basis. That's why NCR backs
up its Accounting Machine represen-
tatives with Systems Research facili-
ties which can draw on world-wide
NCR experience gained through
operations in over 120 countries. For
an individual “system measurement",
just call your local NCR office, or
write to NCR, 14-16 York St., Sydney.
□1
ccctr cc
l!V
□
SYDNEY MELBOURNE . BRISBANE TOWNSVILLE NEWCASTLE ADELAIDE PERTH HOBART CANBERRA WAGGA
211-2188 63-0271 2-0631 3276 2-4837 51-5821 21-9727 3-3887 4-0327 4345
THE NATIONAL CASH REGISTER SO. PTY. LTD.


1 ~ ppp
• : 'v.
i-vf, .
--
Capture all the action in colour.
Colour captures the action and lets you re-live the
moment now and in the years to come. Wherever you go
for your winter sport, remember to take your camera,
loaded with Kodak colour film then you can capture
the action with confidence. You’ll find Kodachrome-X
gives true-to-life colour slides you’ll be proud of; Kodak
Ektachrome-X has vivid colours which seem brighter
than life; and Kodak High Speed Ektachrome is perfect
for fast action and “available light” shots. In short,
there’s a quality Kodak colour film available to get just
the pictures you want.
Kodackrome -X
Kodak fcklacferome-X
COuOij M -
| High Speed |
EKTACHROME
COLOUR REVERSAL PIL.M
Xodacolor-X
Maybe you prefer colour prints? Then Kodacolor-X Film
is the answer. Kodacolor-X produces colour prints ideal
for framing or for sending to friends. Kodacolor-X is as
easy to use as black-and-white and is available in a range
of sizes to fit almost any camera.
Colour slides or colour prints . . . capture the action
confidence. Use Kodak Colour Film in the familiar yellow
box. Your Kodak dealer will gladly advise you.
Branches in all States
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.
KM9510
■ *y t\
■
a head. This, says Eric Bond, does not
mean we are eating less bread. “It means
there is less wastage, because with the
old unwrapped whole loaf quite a bit of
it was thrown away when it got stale.
Today, wrapped bread stays fresher
longer and usually is eaten down to the
last slice.”
Wastage in production is also partly
the cause of fine profit margins in the
industry. Mr Packham estimates waste
could run as high as 5 to 10 p.c. “And
once bread is baked and remains unsold
it is useless.”
The Bread Research Institute at West
Ryde, Sydney, is regarded as one of the
finest Of its kind in the world. Director
Bond feels that more work is done on
bread, per capita, in Australia than in
any other country in the world. The
institute is the central point of- bread
research in Australia and many overseas
organisations have asked for its assist-
ance.
'C'inance comes from the bread manu-
facturers who pay a levy of 2s. on
every ton of flour they use, and some
flour millers whose contributions are
voluntary. There is co-operation with the
CSIRO. Last year the institute received
a grant of £25,000 from the US Depart-
ment of Agriculture for a four-year study
on the behavior of dough.
Changes in Australian retail buying
habits have made the bread industry
highly competitive—almost to the cut-
throat point. With the closure of many
small bakeries due to takeovers, many
householders were left outside the three-
mile limit, thus losing any legal claim to
bread deliveries. This means that,
whereas 15 years ago shops sold only
5 p.c. of bread produced, they now sell
more than 50 p.c.
To get their products into as many
shops and supermarkets as possible,
bakers offer handsome discounts to re-
tailers. The standard discount is 121
p.c., but it has gone as high as 22 p.c.
It is apparent that bakers would like to
do away with home deliveries completely.
Is there room in the industry for the
small baker? As far as demand is con-
cerned, yes. The small baker, who, be-
cause of his turnover, cannot afford the
mechanisation and automation the bigger
boys have, is turning more to production
of fancy breads, for which there is an
ever-growing demand.
How long the independent baker will
survive is a tricky question. It is certain
that there is a large amount of over-
production, which means that the in-
dependent cannot look forward to being
taken over in the near future. Whether
he can exist in competition with the
big five by producing fancy breads lies
not in his hands alone but his customers’.


PiipilS
mm
«*!
M
n e \ieuW e
7
0
ea rs
6
510
7
irv°
12
ea* s
y\WOX^
7
8
years
6
years
7
rths
rn°
nWS
rr»°
12
0
ntVAS
rrv°
' A
ii
.
p.a.
n
i
How •
to
Invest ,
OBTAIN A PROSPECTUS from
• Any Stockbroker.
• Any branch of the National Bank of
Australasia Limited.
• Any store or office of Waltons Limited.
• Waltons Credit Corporation Limited, Box
3875, G.P.0., Sydney.
Applications must be lodged on the
appropriate form issued with the Prospectus.
WALTONS
CREDIT
CORPORATION
LIMITED
m
the
(Inc
INVESTMENT
Wealth in the Sands
Bright future for West. Titanium
As expected, Western Titanium has
decided to pay a higher dividend for
its 1964-65 year. Although the group
ruled its books off at the end of last
January, shareholders had to wait until
last week's annual meeting before being
advised of the decision. As unusual as
this practice may be, it has definite
merit. The fortunes of this WA mineral
sands producer are capable of fluctua-
tion almost from day to day. By
leaving the dividend decision for almost
four months after balance date, directors
can make a payout with regard to per-
formance in the current year as well as
in the light of the profits for the relevant
year itself.
Shareholders should not have minded
the wait anyway. It turns out that their
dividend is to be doubled from 4id. to
9d.—a lift from 74 p.c. to 15 p.c. More-
over, directors informed them that they
were proposing to make a new share
issue “in the foreseeable future”. The
higher dividend was undoubtedly brought
about to a large extent by the fact that
profits are expected to create new records
again this year. For 1964-65 the produc-
tion of all minerals except rutile rose
substantially, with the result that profits
literally jumped from £102,000 to
£198,000.
Ilmenite production is currently being
boosted by about 30 p.c. to 200,000 tons
a year. All of this is fully committed
already, while the market for the rest
of the group’s minerals (rutile, monazite,
leucozene and zircon) continues to be
buoyant. The group’s new bulk storage
and loading installation at Bunbury is
expected to reduce handling costs, thus
increasing the f.o.b. value of products.
Apparently there is also a possibility of
an amalgamation of interests with one or
more overseas titanium pigment manu-
facturers, so shareholders are ensured of
a good year from yet another angle.
The future of ilmenite (the group's
prime money spinner) could not look
better at the moment. Long-term con-
tracts are currently in the process of ne-
gotiation and it is on the successful com-
pletion of these that the share issue largely
depends. Cash will be needed to extend
productive capacity. When the capacity
of the current operation is boosted to
200,000 tons, it will be operating at its
economic limit. Beyond this figure a
second mining operation will be needed.
Greater profits would result from such
a move. Experience in the business so
far and today’s improved equipment
would both enable attractive production
costs on feed of a lower grade.
Yet another card up the company's
sleeve is its ilmenite beneficiation project.
Basically, this improves the quality of the
product by boosting the content of cer-
tain minerals and reducing the iron con-
tent. The process enhances the value of
production per ton and broadens its
marketability. A 1000-ton parcel was
sent to the du Pont group last year.
Negotiations currently going on will also
determine the immediate commercial
future of the, project.
CRA’s Copper
/"|nly 15 days after the announcement
” that Conzinc Riotinto of Australia
Ltd would search for minerals in the
New Britain and New Ireland areas, the
company has reportedly discovered a


What goes on at Broken Hill?
(You’ve got to dig deep!)
Iff f
/ ,S'«
V* .ji
4S&
-:-:-U'
JKs;
- v '
/St
•;<• .4>-
m.
r>£<-'
m
v-W- ;
■
$• • : :v:^.:; *
\ V •:<< .y : : S ■**< '•'te»x-.
;> x; ■; *
X. —*&
s&i
m
./'V x 4
L
■/4mw§i
mm
'A
Uf,
m
mmam;
m/m-
- ■
:f
mm
m gzq
f?U Hi
r? 9
I * -
wl ;
1
: -: <v *
HI
x
r
~
S4>j
’ i : 4'\
m
m
m
ill
Iff
Filii
n
In fact you have to go down nearly 3,000 feet
underground. On the 20th level of the Zinc
Corporation’s mine at Broken Hill engineers are
installing underground crushing machinery which will
improve efficiency and increase the output of the
mine. Six thousand tons of rock were removed
from this excavation to make room for the 76-ton
crusher that will work here 2,920 feet below the
surface. Zinc Corporation and New Broken Hill
are the largest producers in Australia of lead
concentrate and zinc concentrate. Vital raw
materials that feed the growing industries of this
country and earn foreign currency by exports.
v This is just a part of the important role
played by C.R. A. and its member companies in
developing Australia.
THE ZINC CORPORATION LIMITED AND
NEW BROKEN HILL CONSOLIDATED LIMITED
member companies of C.R.A.
CONZINC RIOTINTO OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
CRB6


DIRTY IT! WET
IT! MUDDY IT!
STAIN IT! SCUFF
IT! STEAM IT!
§
a DURALABEL!
Avery have come up with Duralabels the first self-adhesive labels
with c protective coating. What's more, the protective coating is
where it does the most good over the printing.
No matter how careful you are, labels get rubbed, dirty, greasy,
wet or roughed up. With Duralabels you get a built-in bodyguard.
Duralabels are self-protected. They are tough, and a wipe with a
cloth will make them instantly clean.
Of course Avery are proud of this revolutionary development.
Another first for them in an industry where they've always
been first.
A 'phone call to Avery will land a load of Duralabels on your desk
quick smart without obligation. Then you can see how good
they look how good they feel.
Duralabels really are that good, and only Avery have them.
m
W. J. CRYER & CO. LTD.
75 UNION ST., DULWICH HILL, N.S.W. 560-7177
W. J. CRYER (VIC.) PTY. LTD.
30 COTHAM RD., KEW, VIC. 86-7911
Please send me free samples and information on Avery Duralabels
COMPANY
NAME
ADDRESS "
substantial lode of low-grade copper in
Bougainville.
Under an authority granted by the
Papuan - New Guinea Administration
early in May, one of CRA’s offshoots,
Conzinc Riotinto Australia Exploration
Pty Ltd, will explore 14,500 square
miles. The authority to prospect is valid
for six months.
The company says its Bougainville dis-
covery is in the Crown Prince Range,
near old workings opened up by gold
prospectors. Diamond drilling has con-
firmed mineralisation to a depth of at
least 600 feet. However, say directors,
it will be some time before the economic
importance of the discovery can be
assessed.
The exploration is being conducted in
conjunction with New Broken Hill Con-
solidated Ltd, which holds a one-third
interest in the venture.
Better Brick
As directors predicted a few weeks ago,
the profit of Brick and Pipe Indus-
tries in the year to March 31 would be
on a par with 1963-64. Figures now
released by the Melbourne-based group
show that the result scored a slight in-
crease from £356,000 to £376,000. But,
as The Bulletin pointed out when the
directors made their prediction, the result
is an extremely satisfactory one, espe-
cially in view of the substantially higher
tax bill which has been incurred.
The figures from the company show
that profits before tax actually jumped
24 p.c. from £521,000 to £646.000. Tax
provision, however, is up from £105,000
to £270,000 —enough to knock any com-
pany for a loop.
An investment allowance rebate of
some £40,000 in 1963-64 was mainly
responsible for the lower tax. Without
this, profit would have been only
£316,000. Depreciation was also up in
the latest year, from £211,000 to
£235,000. The company is the largest
brick manufacturer in Victoria and pro-
fits have trebled over the last four years
in line with an extensive programme of
plant development.
On slightly higher capital, earning rate
has eased from 18 p.c. to 17.5 p.c. Divi-
dend will be a steady 12} p.c., leaving
£116,000 of profits over for reserves and
further development in the current year.
Plaudits for PGH
T>gh Industries Ltd’s third-quarter
progress report is pleasing from two
aspects. First, because it contains news
of improved profit and, secondly, because
it lets shareholders know what’s going
on. PGH is one of the few public com-


Finance
Corporation
of Australia
Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DEBENTURE
STOCK
-JLO
2
0
PER ANNUM 10 YEARS
73
io
PER ANNUM 6 YEARS
6k
PER ANNUM 3 YEARS
Applications for
debenture stock can be
accepted only on
the printed form referred
to in and attached to
the prospectus.
Prospectuses and forms
of application should
be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier f.n. s
panies to release quarterly reports but
its example should be followed by every
other public company—and the reports
should be as comprehensive as PGH’s
latest, which could double for an annual
report from some of the more tight-
lipped companies which appear on these
pages.
The group lifted profit for the nine
months to March 31 to £293,026 com-
pared with the previous corresponding
period's £249,927. While this is a
satisfying result in itself, earnings per
share during the period slipped slightly
due to bonus and cash issues. At the
end of March last year each share had
earned 10.7 d., but at the end of March
this year earnings dropped to 10.43 d. a
share.
PGH’s practice of giving earnings per
share as well as earning rate on ordinary
capital is also pleasing to note, and an-
other example other companies should
follow. On the latest result PGH allowed
£187,650 for tax (compared with
£144,552 in the nine months ended
March, 1964). Depreciation rose £33,600
to £186,100, and minority interests in-
creased £15,669 to £19,310.
Directors say the daily sales rate was
well maintained during the third quarter.
They say the South Australian brick and
pipe project had not yet made any sig-
nificant contribution to group figures. In
addition, the group incurred losses in a
contracting subsidiary during the March
quarter.
The group’s ss. shares are presently
selling for 18s. 4d. after being marked
down 2d. on the news of reduced earn-
ings per share. How much more satisfy-
ing it is for the investor to be able to
evaluate the shares four times a year
instead of being allowed to do it only
twice by most companies and then
grudgingly.
Note Issue
W. Williams Holdings Ltd, Syd-
A ney-based paper and packaging
group, has raised additional funds
through a private placement of unsecured
notes. Chairman Mr O. McL. Falkiner
at the annual meeting said the notes
(which carry 8 p.c. interest for 10 or 20
years) provided funds which were re-
quired to replace short-term money and
would finance general expansion of the
business.
Mr Falkiner told shareholders that
results of the associated companies are
showing improvement. St-Regis Williams
Pty, which is 50 p.c. owned, is showing
a satisfactory improvement in the 1964-
65 financial year. Both companies en-
gaged in the materials handling field hold
substantial forward orders. The plastic
operation has had a good first quarter.
Whilst the result of the rural company
for the first quarter is better than that of
the corresponding period last year, it is
“influenced considerably by the end-
of-year harvest, which, of course, is
threatened by drought at the present
time”, Mr Falkiner added.
The group's 10s. shares, currently sell-
ing at 355., return 2.9 p.c. from dividend
and are only a little below the year’s high
point of 365.
No Sitting Around
released by the directors of
Squatting Investments last week on
the takeover of Western Queensland Pas-
toral provide evidence that the acquisition
will boost Squatting’s earning rate. Last
year it was 19.3 p.c. on capital of
£487,000, in round figures. WQP, how-
ever, earned around 30 p.c. from a pro-


oggEf^
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated in England)
Assets exceed £200,000,000
The Royal Exchange Assurance Group of Offices provides a
world-wide insurance service backed by experience over almost two
and a half centuries.
The following are the associated companies operating in
Australia:
• ATLAS ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated In England)
• AUSTRALIAN & EASTERN INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
• THE STATE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• BRITISH EQUITABLE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• THE PACIFIC INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
Branches in all Stqtes
Head Office for Australia —*
Kindersley House,
Bligh/O'Connell Streets,
Sydney.
Frank H. Egerton
Manager for Australia
FREIGHT
DOOR TO
DOOR
m
ANSETI
AN A
*
3
4SftK3atsf
•- — •jsl
Radio-controlled pick-up at major ports. Delivery at
destination throughout Australia.
ROUND THE CLOCK ANYWHERE TO ANYWHERE
£
A MEMBER COMPANY OF ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
1335
fit of £87,000 on capital of some
£290,000.
To acquire all the shares, Squatting's
capital would rise by £363,000 to about
£850,000. On this figure, the combined
profits would give an earning rate of
about 21.5 p.c., presuming there is no
improvement in the current year. Squat-
ting balances on December 31 and WQP
balances at June.
There are not very many takeovers
which enhance earning rates so very early
in the piece, especially when the move
involves shares entirely. This one seems
to be the exception. But, as directors
point out, the prime aim is to achieve
greater strength and security—rather
than to merely make more money. This
attitude is shown up by the fact that
two members of the WQP board are to
join the Squatting team.
Of course combined earning rate will
show quite a lift if not all of the shares
are acquired. The original offer was for
just over 50 p.c. of WQP's capital. As
a greater percentage of shareholders ap-
pear willing to sell out, Squatting is
accepting their shares until June 30.
Undoubtedly there will be a few who
choose to remain as minority share-
holders.
Unilever s Diet
/Ald Rosella shareholders must have re-
ceived quite a shock when they read
last week that Rosella Foods Pty Ltd
incurred a loss of £203,000 in the year
to December 31 last. The group was
taken over some.time ago by the overseas-
controlled Unilever group. In 1963, its
first year with Unilever, profit rose from
£185,000 to £196,000. One could for-
give the old shareholders for thanking
their lucky stars that they got out.
Fortunately for Unilever the result is
not quite as serious as one would imagine
and in fact should be only a temporary
position. Substantial reorganisation took
place during the year. Depreciation re-
flected some of this by rising from
£85,000 to £145,000. World Brands
Pty Ltd was merged with Rosella in the
first half and results were affected by
the costs of establishing and reorganising
the combined business. A much costlier
advertising programme was also under-
taken and extra cash was allotted for
research and development. Both these
items should yield benefits in the current
year and thereafter.
Nevertheless, one hopes that the Uni-
lever group has not bitten off more than
it can chew. More bad news came last
week when another subsidiary, Streets
Ice Cream, announced a 6 p.c. lower
profit of £375,000 in its latest year. This
effort was also after substantial lifts in
depreciation and tax provision too. De-


Hi'
MERCANTILE
CREDITS LTD.
V
PAID UP CAPITAL, £3,650,000
Debenture Issue
4!
A
INTEREST IS PAYABLE EVERY 3 MONTHS
LONG-TERM INCOME
Wo
p.fl.
6, 8 &
10 YEARS
71%
* 4 /U
™
4 YEARS
6i%
P.A.
2 YEARS
SHORT-TERM INCOME
6fo
P.A.
12 MONTHS
s«b
P.A.
6 MONTHS
4f%
P.A.
3 MONTHS
Applications accepted only on application form attached to and
referred to in a printed copy of the Prospectus. Obtain Prospectus
from any member of a recognised Stock Exchange in Australia, any
Branch of Australia and New Zealand Bank Ltd., or any office of
Mercantile Credits Ltd.
MERCANTILE CREDITS LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 10-14 Underwood Street, Sydney, and at
Melbourne, Canberra, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
preciation actually rose £lOO,OOO, to the
same level as the profit figure. Streets
has been a subsidiary for five years now.
Corio Comeback
\ fter what has seemed an endless pro-
cession of dividendless years, losses
and court proceedings, Corio (Holdings)
Ltd has proudly announced that a \2i
p.c. dividend is expected for shareholders
in the current year to June 30. In a
report on trading for the nine months up
to the end of March, directors said the
payout should be about twice covered.
This payout has only been made pos-
sible by several drastic reorganisation
moves, which are all past history now.
Probably the most significant was the
Supreme Court’s decision on April 23
to reconstruct capital. It has been chop-
ped back considerably to about £25,000
in Is. shares.
Last year’s profit of £7307 equalled
5.9 p.c. on capital. The same result this
year would equal about 29.3 p.c.—hence
the double cover for the predicted divi-
dend. It will be the group's second pay-
out since 1959-60. Last year a meagre
21 p.c. was distributed.
All this is of little comfort to old share-
holders, who are hardly getting any
material benefit because of the capital
reconstruction. But to those who like a
bit of spice with their investments, the
shares must look rather attractive, as
they are currently selling only at par.
Money For Tyres
Qa Rubber Holdings Ltd is to finance
a new tyre plant at Salisbury, South
Australia, with a one-for-four issue of
new shares at 100 p.c. premium. This
follows the statement by the group’s
chairman, Mr M. R. Lodge, at the
annual meeting in October last year that
he was unable to indicate when share-
holders would be able to subscribe
further capital.
Directors say they have decided on
the premium (1,766,270 ss. shares will
be issued at 10s.) because the additional
funds are required to assist financing
the Salisbury factory which cannot be
expected to operate at maximum
efficiency for some time.
Back to Normal
Omith Sons and Rees Ltd, motor spare
parts retailer, has resumed interim
dividend payments with a payout of 3
p.c. which suggests a return to the pre-
-1961 annual level of 6 p.c. This follows
last year’s final, and only, payment of
4f p.c. and gives weight to the directors’
statement that group sales and profit for
the six months to January 31 were higher
than for the previous corresponding
period.
This trend has continued during the
current half year, say directors. It could
mean that the result for the full year will
better last year's profit of £30,644.
ISAS Progress
Oales of ISAS (NSW) Ltd, construc-
tion equipment distributor, have
continued on a satisfactory basis since
April 1, directors say in their annual
report.
They mention that bad debts written
off for the year ended March 31 were
higher than the previous year but do not
disclose figures. Earlier last month the
company announced a 50 p.c. profit lift
from £49,605 to £73,647. The com-
pany's 20s. shares are selling at par.


BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (f.'OOO) (a)
Year to June 30 1960 1961 1962 1963
1964
Ordinary capital
1820
2368
2368
2368
2710
Reserves
2767
3534
4162
4493
4781
Shareholders' funds
4587
5902
6530
6861
7491
Unexpired risk
reserve
2260
2575
2675
3144
3144
Claims, creditors
3212
3760
3443
3835
4062
Other liabilities
414
420
486
524
633
Total liabilities
10473
12657
13134
14364
15330
Property
1282
1364
1609
1641
1685
Public securities
2550
2580
2992
3368
3658
Mortgage loans
412
567
489
563
618
Company securities
3397
4216
4157
4786
5718
Investment in
subsidiaries
1225
2025
2025
2025
2025
Cash, deposits and
other assets
590
513
586
65 9
432
Agents balances
1017
1392
1276
1322
1194
10473
12657
13134
14364
15330
REVENUE ACCOUNT
Increase in unexpired
SUMMARIES
{£'000)
risk reserve
510
315
100
469
nil
Underwriting profit
189
186
187
164
159
Investment income
249
327
388
447
494
Ordincry dividend
Investment income as
207
296
296
296
317
% of ord. cap.
13.7
13.9
16.4
18.9
18.2
Ord. dividend %
12.5
12.5
12.5
12.5
12.5
Dividend Yield % (b)
2.8
2.4
2.5
2.2
3.0
High price (c)
100/-
110/-
140/-
125/-
105/-
Low price (c) 70/- 68/-
(a) Accounts of parent company
94/-
only
103/-
76/6
(b) based on last sal
sented
(c) calendar year
e in August
when
accounts
pre-
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Underwriting and Investment Incomes
The position of the Mercantile Mutual Insurance
T ast week the investment prospects of
the shares of APA Holdings were
discussed. That company appeared to be
receiving the bulk of its profits from
an investment portfolio and its interests
in short term money market companies.
It was pointed out that in the last two
years profits from the main subsidiary
company, the Australian Provincial As-
surance Association, had flowed to the
parent company and that there were good
prospects of increasing profits from this
source.
This week I propose to take a look at
the Mercantile Mutual Insurance Com-
pany Ltd because I believe that there is
some similarity between the two. Both
receive their main income from an invest-
ment portfolio (although in the case of
the Mercantile this is the investment port-
folio of the general insurance activities)
and both seem to have the prospects of
increasing income from their life in-
surance subsidiaries.
For the last ten years, the dividend
payment of the Mercantile has always
been less than its investment income.
There is every reason to believe that this
position will continue, as it seems to
have become an international practice. In
the proceedings of the second congress
of the European Federation of Financial
Analysts, a report by a commission of
17 European analysts contains the follow-
ing words: “. . . it is unusual to see
distribution of dividends by general in-
surance companies which exceeded the
investment income received”. For this
reason, I consider that “investment
income” should take the place of “earn-
ings” so far as general insurance com-
panies are concerned and underwriting
profits (when they occur!) should only
be considered to the extent that they con-
tribute to the funds which build up the
investment portfolio.
If we consider that the item “freehold
properties at cost” is part of the invest-
ment portfolio because these properties
contribute income as well as housing the
group’s activities, the investment port-
folio has increased by nearly £7i million
over the last five years. It would be futile
to talk of annual growth rates because
this figure includes the investment in the
Intercolonial Investment Land and Build-
ing Company (acquired in January 1960)
and in the Australian Metropolitan Life
Assurance Company (acquired in October
1960). This increase seems to have arisen
from the following sources:
£'ooo
Ordinary share issues
(including premiums) ' 2810
Underwriting surplus
(including unexpired risk reserve) 2279
Investment income surplus 493
The remainder of this increase arises
apparently in the main from the increase
of just over £l.B million in the liabilities
item “claims and reinsurances outstand-
ing and treaty balances”. As this last item
is also associated with the business of
underwriting general insurance, it could
perhaps be said that, over the five-year
period, this main activity has contributed
55 p.c. of the increase in the investment
portfolio. However, it must also be noted
that this contribution has been reducing
quite rapidly and last year accounted for
less than 28 p.c. of the total increase.
/Yver the last ten years, the rate of re-
turn on the average funds invested
has increased by just over 30 p.c. This in-
crease has been fairly steady, apart from
the period from July 1, 1959, to June 30,
1961, when the rate declined. To some ex-
tent this may have been due to the condi-
tions of the time, but it is equally likely
that the acquisitions of 1960 tended to
“water” the return in the short run.
Currently, the dividends from subsidiary
companies are showing a return of 3.65
p.c. on cost as compared with the overall
return on investments of 3.8 p.c.
While the dividend received from
other subsidiaries seems to have increased
only slightly in the last three years, the
dividend paid by the Australian Metro-
politan Life Assurance Company has in-
creased as follows:
In respect of year
ended December 31 1960 1961 1962 1963
Dividend £ 10,000 14,000 21,500 21,500
Addition to
life fund N/A 477,742 484,462 520,032
It must be emphasised that the addi-
tion to the life fund does not constitute
the surplus earned for the year. It is
also apparent that over the last two years
the life fund of the AML has not been
increasing at the same rate as that of
the APA. Strangely enough, this does not
necessarily mean that the surplus has
also been increasing at a slower rate, yet
in the absense of any contrary evidence,
it might possibly be concluded that the
rate of increase in the dividend from the
AML will not be as great as the rate of
increase in the dividend paid by the Aus-
tralian Provincial.
I am left with a number of questions,
namely:
(i) Can the rate of growth in invest-
ment income be continued into the
future?
(ii) Will the trend of falling under-
writing profits be reversed?
(iii) What are the prospects of further
increasing the average return on the in-
vestment portfolio?
(iv) What are the prospects of the
AML’s life fund growing at a faster rate
in the future?
(v) Will the dividends received from
this source by Mercantile continue to
increase and at what rate?
The analyst is always in a position
where he needs to give quantitative
answers to questions which can only be
answered in general terms, such as the
following answers to the above: (i) Un-
likely. (ii) Only if there is a general re-
adjustment upwards of premium rates,
(iii) Modest growth is possible but is
limited by the convention of holding a
high percentage of the portfolio in Gov-
ernment securities, (iv) Cannot answer,
(v) Probably, but the rate is unknown.
While the shares look cheap at current
prices of about 755., it must be pointed
opt that in 1961 they were selling as low
as 68s. to show a dividend yield of
3.7 p.c. If we discount the possibility that
there will be any further general fall in
the prices of insurance shares, we must
come to the conclusion that some other
insurance shares with at least equal pros-
pects are selling somewhat cheaper.


KONSON
AGREES . . .
SYDNEY PEOPLE
ARE SOLD ON
TCN-9
ST
CAN-DO CASE HISTORY
The product—a multi-purpose
electric kitchen appliance
incorporating a can opener,
knife sharpener, mixer and
masher whipper—was intro-
duced to retail at £l6/16/-.
Within days of the first com-
mercial going on the air on
TCN-9, retailer after retailer
was re-ordering stock, result-
ing in a complete sell-out.
The Can-do promotion was a
complete success.
V- *
tl *
n.O
14 E
ti u^' ,t '
. 0 ‘®* ’* ’ tMib
I^,
l 96 5.
*ai* c
net
■Xot^»
■JP* V_o* 1
pea*
Xa^i
, itvtei
w 0S .* oi oU !
s ted *
r ec<= !
« dd e
*** ,tOse*
,ie» 5 '
period «*
yjtC
;tve»
the*
ti»s
a pp lv
s ua-y
6 <iC e
had a
VlaV
;0®P 1 - C
__ tue
9.
ohS otl
s tod
t otd-V
h eTe
,U a -
, *»»«■“", l0 ut * xo s ed iU ~C V > S * ’
U tW ° US .«**» *?
* l “ ,
a ld aS , ’ a „ a ei 1
Votvt +s ot + vve
.I^ e „S.th e
“"“‘t -
0*6 att . -i
i.od
lh
the
tede^ 5
the
m a3°
. *hV
oh T
oh*
ati c
success
, „ add'-'-"" o taV e ' _ eE ar
** -%aee , „.*•»«* T
,d^- e
taf^ 6 '
U.OhS'
,oh
Ca"--'
a£ eT
G.I
fs* le
tio^
People ail over Sydney
are sold on
Studio and Transmitter at Artarmon Rd., Willoughby 43 0444
Sales: Sydney, Ist Floor, Cricket House, George St. 27 2881
TCN
Melbourne, 247 Collins St.
63 8336
SYDNEY


invest is ALLIANCE
Debentures &
Unsecured Notes
Interest up to
t
o
2
o
HOW TO INVEST Applications are to be made on
the form attached to the Prospectus available from:
• Any Branch or District Office of The Mutual Life & Citizens'
Assurance Company Ltd.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
• Any branch of Alliance Holdings or of its Subsidiary Companies.
ALLIANCE HOLDINGS
LIMITED
SYDNEY: Shell House, 2 Carrington Street. 29-7641.
MELBOURNE: 636 St. Kilda Road. 51-1241.
BRISBANE: 509 Queen Street. 31-1951.
ADELAIDE: 50 Grenfell Street. 8-6131.
PERTH: 177 St. George's Terrace. 21-5907.
WOLLONGONG: Cnr. Crown Street & Railway Parade. 2-5657.
NEWCASTLE: 484-486 Hunter Street. 2-4112.
CANBERRA: Cnr. London Circuit & Petrie Street. 4-1291.
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Waiting on Higher Dividends
Noske Industries' wise diversification
VToske Industries Ltd spreads its
operations over four fields. Through
its five subsidiary companies, the parent
has interests in flour and stock feed mil-
ling, the distribution of industrial mach-
inery, Holden dealing with its associated
spare parts and used car trade, and finally
investing, which embraces personal loan
and hire-purchase facilities to finance the
customers of the group. The group was
registered in Victoria in 1922 as a pro-
prietary company. It floated to the public
lists in July, 1949.
Noske Flour Mills Pty Ltd and Noske
Bros (SA) Pty Ltd form the flour and’
stock feed milling division. Noske Flour
operates mills at Horsham, Nhill and
Charlton, the centres for some of the
largest wheat growing areas in Victoria.
Noske Bros, the only subsidiary not regis-
tered in Victoria, has a flour mill at Mur-
ray Bridge. Adjacent to this is the stock
feed mill, which produces over 30 vari-
eties of feed for poultry, cattle, sheep and
pigs. Between them the companies have
a capacity to produce 79,500 tons of
flour a year, 22,000 tons of pollard and
bran, 30,000 tons of other stock feed,
and their 51 silos can hold 1,410,000
bushels of wheat.
Queen's Bridge Motor and Engineering
Co. Pty Ltd is one of Australia’s largest
distributors of industrial machinery. It
has offices at Port Melbourne, Hobart,
Devonport (Tas.) and Blair Athol (SA).
The equipment is all distributed through
franchises held from overseas.
Queen’s Bridge Motors Pty Ltd is one
of the four Melbourne metropolitan dis-
tributors of Holden cars and commercial
vehicles. It runs a well-known sales and
service division and operates very pro-
fitably in the spare parts game too. Used
car yards are operated in Queen’s Bridge
Street (South Melbourne), Oakleigh and
Essendon.
Queen’s Bridge Investments Pty Ltd is
not very appropriately named. Actually
very little investment is done in the true
sense of the word. Probably the parent
company does just as much as its sub-
sidiary. The subsidiary’s prime task is to
finance the sales made by its associates
in their various fields. Last year the
group acquired an interest in a chicken-
raising concern (unnamed) which had
been an important customer to the flour
and stock feed milling division.
On the average, the flour and stock
feed milling division contributes about
half the year’s profits. Last year it con-
tributed 48 p.c. The other activities
contributed around 50 p.c. and the re-
maining two p.c. came from what the
directors described as the sundry
activities of the parent. Consolidated
profit eased slightly from £173,000 to
£168,000, after sales had increased by
about 12 p.c. to £9.5 million. Trading
profit actually rose but higher deprecia-
tion and, more important, tax took a
heavier toll.
Barring unforeseen circumstances, the
3964-65 profit will be larger. Profit in
the half-year to December 31 was
£93,000, equal to an annual earning rate
of 21.8 p.c. Moreover, it came after a
drop in sales from £4.88 million to
£4.77 million. This was mainly a reflec-
tion, of the GM-H strike. The flour and
stock feed companies both bettered them-
selves. The industrial machinery section
turned in a higher profit and the invest-
ment company wrote additional business
and lifted earnings also. Interim dividend
was held at 5 p.c., indicating another
11 p.c. payout for the full year. '
The current half holds even better
promise and could boost the full year's
earning rate closer to 25 p.c. than 20 p.c.
The GM-H strike is, of course, over and
done with. However, the boost to sales
which this will provide will undoubtedly
be over-shadowed by the impetus which
the new model provides. It hit the market
in February. The second production line
at the Murray Bridge mills will have
operated for a full six months. In fact,
business from this quarter is so good that
a third line is being constructed at present.
In addition, the group added another
activity at the end of April. An old-estab-
lished independent Adelaide bakery sold
itself to Noske and another company,
each owning 50 p.c. So profits will be
coming from yet another source when
the books are ruled oft'. Perhaps this
move and last year's venture into chicken-
raising indicates the broadening out'ook
of the Noske Board. If such is the case,
directors are obviously taking diversifica-
tion very slowly and wisely. Both fields
are growing, neither of the moves was
particularly large and in neither case did
Noske decided to take the new interest
completely under its wing as a subsidiary.
There has only been one issue in the
group’s entire listed history. Unfortun-
ately its timing was so poor that many
fingers were burnt. The shares as well
as the dividend rate have yet to recover.
The issue was a one-for-three at par and
it was made in 1960-61. At the same
time the par value of the shares was split
from 20s. to ss. The credit squeeze in
1961-62 brought profits down heavily
from £109,000 to £28,000, after they had
already fallen from £143,000 in 1960-61.
Earning rate on the higher capital was a
paltry 1.9 p.c. The group did not pay an


-gm «•
m
-
JB*
fe
Hi
*«
? ;•■
-
WSSi
K
i
SSi
.
-. g
' - :
as*
BucketrWheel-coai dredger, Yallourn, Victoria.
Partners in the Big Dig
Conveyor belt, Yallourn.
At Yallourn Power Station, Victoria at present the largest in Australia Dunlop belting
is installed on three lines of conveyors. Each is capable of transporting 1,500 tons of brown
coal per hour from the ditch bunkers at the side of the great Yallourn open cut to slot bunkers
serving the power station.
Deep below the surface at Coalcliff, N.S.W., an all-Dunlop, three-mile-long conveyor belt
system has helped lift production to 4,000 tons a day.
From conveyor belts to the water, air and fire hoses; from transmission belting to Chutex
abrasion-resistant linings Dunlop is in the mining industry in a big way.
At Broken Hill, Mt. Isa, Kalgoorlie and Iron Knob too, Dunlop Industrial Products are
increasing output through greater efficiency and speedier handling.
Dunlop also provides men of their Technical Service to be on-the-spot working partners
right from the planning stage.
Wherever the mining industry is in action so is Dunlop.
now what can we do for you?
DUNLOP INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS DIVISION


ACCOUNTS SUMMARY
June 30 1960 1961
(£'000)
1962
1963
1964
Current assets
2360
2237
2132
2236
2419
Less current liabilities
1096
869
655
743
942
Working capital
1264
1368
1477
1493
1477
Fixed assets
1374
1569
1485
1512
1593
—
—
—
—
—
2638
2937
2962
3005
3070
Ordinary capital
600
800
800
800
800
Reserves
1161
1072
1093
1141
1209
Preference capital
200
200
200
200
200
Loan capital
677
865
869
864
861
2638
2937
2962
3005
3070
Depreciation
39
48
48
48
55
Tax
95
53
44
73
98
Net profit
143
109
28
173
168
Dividend (incl.
£12,000 for prefs)
87
90
62
92
100
Surplus
56
19
(-34)
81
68
Ord. average
earning rate
21.8
14.0
1.9
20.2
19.5
Dividend rate p.c.
12J
m
6\
10
11
Dividend yield (a)
4.7
8.6
(b)
6.3
5.6
High price (c)
14/-
8/6
8/11
10/4
10/9
Low price (c)
7/-
6/8
V-
5/6
7/3
(a) End August, month results announced.
(b) No interim paid for 1961-62 year.
(c) Calendar year.
PROBLEM
How to brand
an engine
ANSWER
A SELEX DECAL
Transfer
m
m
&
•#
m
m
.*'
%
Australian transfers
for Australia s own car ...
Your new HD Holden comes with a choice of 3 high per-
formance engines —149, 179 and X 2.
Even if you’re not a mechanic, you can tell the difference as
soon as you lift the bonnet. The transfers on the rocker covers
(as shown above) are made by Selex Decal to rigid General
Motors specifications.
They are designed to be colourful, heat and solvent resistant,
and to be easily applied on the production line.
SELEX DECAL
for Transfers
SYDNEY: 43-0221 • MELBOURNE: 61-3211-AGENTS IN ALL OTHER STATES
*The word DECAL is registered
m4*
interim dividend (the first time it had
omitted a payout since listing) and the
shares fell to par. In an effort to maintain
its history as a generous and regular divi-
dend payer a final uncovered 6f p.c. was
distributed.
Since then the shares have never re-
covered to their former peaks. The 1964
high was 10s. 9d. and the peak so far
this year is Bs. Earning rates have re-
covered to their former levels. It seems
that the main factor holding the shares
back is the lower dividends. Prior to the
issue they had been 124 p.c. for 11 suc-
cessive years. Having regard to the pros-
pects for a higher dividend, there are
excellent chances for capital gains at the
present market price as well as the pro-
mise of handsome dividend yields.
The accompanying table shows a re-
markable degree of stability as far as the
balance sheet is concerned. Working capi-
tal (which is plentiful), fixed assets,
reserves (which are high), ordinary, pre-
ference and loan capital are all virtually
unchanged since 1960-61. Profits, etc.,
reflect in figures what has already been
touched upon. The share prices reflect the
recovery which took place up to Decem-
ber 31 last.
Summing up, the shares look to be
good buying for the investor who seeks
a high income combined with the pos-
sibility of capital gains on the market
price. The latter will, of course, be coup-
led with boosts to income received, since
the market price is unlikely to rise to
any great extent unless the dividend rate
is lifted. This could happen when the
final results are announced next August.
But, as the interim was not lifted, the
chances of an increase this year are de-
cidedly slimmer. Considering this, and
speculation aside, one should only buy
with the intention of hanging on for at
least 18 months, as 1965-66 will very
likely see the expected increase if 1964-65
does not.


MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
7-20
YEARS
DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications for Debentures and Unsecured Notes,
accepted only on the form referred to in and attached to
the printed prospectus which is available from:
BANK OF N.S.W. AT ANY OF ITS BRANCHES
ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE COMPANY LTD.
316 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. 61-9701
El
MA2OON.S.W.
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
In High Praise of Tin
With a professor's encouragement
T>ully for tin.
Over the last few weeks I’ve been
passing brief remarks about the tin
situation. Because this metal forms such
a vital part of the portfolio, now would
seem as good a time as any to look at
a book just published and entitled “Re-
port on the World Tin Position with
Projections for 1965 and 1970”.
The author, Professor Robertson of
the University of Liverpool, feels that
in the next five years the maximum out-
put could fall short of consumption by
a substantial margin. He goes on to say
that only if all production estimates
could be realised and if consumption
grew no more rapidly than in the last
decade, an approximate balance is just
conceivable by 1970.
As a note of caution, he points out
that a high tin price could ultimately
lead to the use of substitutes. This
danger particularly applies to substitutes
for tinplate, which accounts for 43 p.c.
of total world consumption. Tinplate
should continue to be the dominant
consumer of tin. Yet the professor feels
that future growth in this market will
come more from the developing coun-
tries of Africa, Asia and Latin America,
rather than such countries as USA
which appear close to their saturation
points.
Fortunately, the book confirms my
belief that tin shares are still good buy-
ing. At the moment, the world tin price
has taken an upward spurt, produced
by the riots in the Bolivian tin mines.
Jumping to another part of the port-
folio, I reconsidered my position with
Steamships Trading. Since the shares
went ex the l-for-5 premium issue, they
have weakened a few more pence. In
fact, at under 10s., they looked very
close to their bottom.
As an exercise I decided to look at
the price movement during the last issue
to shareholders, made on identical terms
in October, 1963. Before the issue
opened, the shares fell from 13s. lid.
at the beginning of October to 12s. 6d.
In the one week in October that the
rights were being traded, they fell from
4s. 6d. to 3s. 1 Id. (please remember that
this is about the position reached in the
current issue).
Then came the reaction. In Novem-
ber, the rights rose to ss. 7d., and by
the end of December were equivalent to
6s. 6d. Including all charges, this is a
rise of over 50 p.c.
Since 1963, the outlook for the
company, if anything, has improved.
Granted the Indonesians are a threat;
they were also lurking in the back-
ground in 1963. Why, then, should not
the current rights issue follow a similar
path? I not only covered the 100 rights
but also purchased an additional 2000
at 2s 3d. The shares were covered at
9s. lid.
Having seen a number of good little
shares—Treloar and J. B. Young—rise
unobtrusively but steadily back up in
price, I thought the time might be ripe
to buy some Cresco. They fell to 525.
a month or two ago, but have since been
slowly climbing again.
Let me hasten to say that it is very
difficult for anyone to know very much
about Cresco. The board is a model of
conservatism—except when it comes to
premium issues, and then Cresco is in
the CRA class. But on the conservative
side, Cresco is so circumspect that it
doesn’t issue any form of interim report
at all.
So the last we heard from this com-
pany was at the annual meeting in
November. Then the chairman warned
that last year’s profit (equal to 25 p.c.
or so on present capital) would not
necessarily be maintained this year. Even
so, earning rate should still be a good 20
p.c., which makes the shares look quite
reasonable at under 60s. The real
attraction in Cresco could be in a take-
over, as at present it is about the only
fertiliser company outside the ICI and
CRA groups. Just a thought.
Talking of takeovers, Clifford Love’s
‘'don’t sell” statement reminded me of
a crack I heard at a recent meeting of
the Shareholders’ Association. Someone
asked why it was that companies in dif-
ficulties never issued “don’t buy” state-
ments. More than a few could take
heed of that.
As to selling, I disposed of the 100
MLC bought the previous week. The
sale price of 88s. seemed as high as the
shares were likely to recover to for the
time being.
Details of the week’s transactions
were:
BOUGHT
2100 Steamships rights at 2/3 £246
500 Steamships shares at 9/11 .. £254
100 Cresco at 56/6 £2BB
SOLD
100 MLC at 88/- £435
With tin the shining light, the port-
folio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
400 Tableland Tin 18/3/65 33/7£ 42/-
1000 Macquarie Worsted 25/3/65 4/11 5/6
500 Loloma, ctg 6/4/65 12/6 12/-
500 Ferris 7/4/65 6/- 5/8
400 Stott & Underwood 21/4/65 5/6 5/9
500 Flanimex 3/5/65 15/6 15/9
2000 Steamship
Trading (rights) 25/5/65 2/3 2/1
400 Kathleen Invest. 13/5/65 16/3 16/
200 Fairymead (short) 19/5/65 23/5 22/9
200 Mauri Bros. 20/5/65 16/6 16/6
100 Cresco 21/5/65 56/6 56/6


TIME FOR
NEW PLANT
EXPANSION ?
Considering expanding, modifying or adding process or plant
capacity?
If so, you will profit from the unbiased services of Wardrope
and Carroll Pty. Ltd., an organisation whose aim is to help
you achieve your goal in plant expansion with maximum
efficiency, maximum economy.
Regarded as authorities in the field of technical plant fab-
rication, Wardrope and Carroll Pty. Ltd., will save you time,
money and sometimes disillusionment in the engineering
and construction of your project.
For Pipe and Plant Engineering, Distillation Plants, Pressure
Vessels, Chemical Plants, Condensers, Heat Exchangers,
Evaporators, Road and Rail Tankers, or any other fabrication,
see Wardrope and Carroll first-!
WARDROPE & CARROLL Pty. Ltd.
30 O’Riordan Street, ALEXANDRIA. N.S.W. 69-1727, 69-3620
*
S(S
i %\
«
'
i -r
*£
Mwm
..X
■4
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Rice Acquires Glamor
Promotion on the British market
Tn the revolution that has overtaken
■*- the grocery'world in the past decade,
the last commodity to acquire super-
market status is rice. The grain that
nourishes the masses of the Orient in
its European setting remained obscure
and dowdy, relegated to the bulk bin
long after other commodities strutted
on to the self-service shelves resplendent
in wraps and labels. But rice is now
having a flourish of its own, and, as
though making up for the lag, it
promises to be the most spectacular of
all.
Fittingly, since it is acknowledged as
the best in the world, the rice that is
spearheading this reform is Australian.
The market in which it is ascending a
new plane of prestige is the world’s
most competitive, the British.
Throughout the United Kingdom
hundreds of stores are now offering Aus-
tralian rice for the first time in glossy
packages, instead of keeping it hidden
under the counter or presenting it in
apologetic cellophane wrappings with
the name of the country of origin
nervously stamped on as an after-
thought. The company that is distributing
the packaged rice believes that, although
the price for it will be a little higher
than now, the present 5000 tons or so
a year that Australia sells to Britain will
by 1968 have trebled and that prospects
after that will be no less impressive.
As an adjunct to the fact that Aus-
tralian rice is unequalled in both yield
and quality, the marketing developments
in Britain mean that no form of agri-
cultural production in Australia today
has such potential for expansion as rice.
The rapid extension of rice-growing on
the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area of
New South Wales, which produced last
year’s record crop of 140,000 tons (three
times as much as 10 years ago) is
matched by the confidence of those who
have to sell it on this side of the world.
The advent of packaged Australian
rice in Britain is a sequel to another
milestone in the industry’s history the
changeover to a new marketing system
that dispenses with speculation, enabling
the grower to receive more for his grain
and at the same time spend more on pro-
motional investment that will widen the
market still further.
The story of rice’s emancipation began
in 1948 when the growers formed a
co - operative organisation that would
free them from reliance upon private
millers. Today the British marketing
division of Gilbert McCaul and Co. Ltd,
food distributors, is sole agent for Rice
Growers’ Co-operative Mills Ltd, which
grows and mills 90 p.c. of the rice in
Australia.
Until the maturing of circumstances
enabled this firm to introduce its new
selling system last year, it was obliged
to steer Australian rice into the old
traditional channels that are symbolised
by the howler hats and quaint mystique
of the City of London, that is through
brokers who, knowing the right telephone
numbers, .bought the rice from shippers
by private treaty in parcels large or small
and juggled it through a closed network
of contacts formed over the years until
finally, with most of the profit sucked
out of it, the grain arrived at selected
consumer outlets to be sold furtively
from under the counter.
The agents had long known that rice
would remain a Cinderella unless it could


573?
FAIRSKY SUNSHINE CRUISE!
Leave Winter behind for sixteen sun-soaked days, when you sail with
Fairsky on a wonderful follow-the-sun cruise through the blue waters
of the Pacific to Noumea and back. You embark at Sydney, July 17th,
call at Cairns and Hayman Island on the way, enjoy fabulous fun,
tropical sun, food, wine and music all the way. All this from as little
as £llO. □ Book with your travel Agent now and be sure. □ You can
disembark at Brisbane on the way back, if you like, or step ashore
at Sydney on August Ist.
follow
the sun
in fuly
br\sbM>*£
°0
SYDNEY
rp
i
\
&
CRUISE THE PACIFIC WITH
be rescued from the cosy little club of
speculators. Deliverance posed two con-
ditions: the establishment of an alter-
native structure for distribution and the
assent of Australian growers. The first
was fulfilled last year with the com-
pletion of 12 regional depots throughout
the United Kingdom, each operating
independently under its own experienced
marketing executive dealing direct with
retail outlets, yet all co-ordinated at the
top under a 12-months plan worked out
in consultation with the Australian
principals.
The second condition was satisfied
when officials of the Australian Rice
Marketing Board came to Britain to
learn of the new proposals at first hand,
and approved them after only one day.
There was naturally some resistance
from the mysterious London middle-
men at having the rice bypass them.
Threats were whispered, but the agents
were part of a big world-wide organisa-
tion and knew their way around. During
the era of speculation there had been
no firm price to the grocery trade. Rice
was gradually drifting into the hands of
fewer people, with the ultimate prospect
of being cornered by a single merchant.
The fixing of prices for a year ahead
has been acclaimed by the grocery trade
throughout the country.
With the swing from bulk to packag-
ing, and thus from anonymity to identity,
Australian rice will become powered by
the promotional forces of the Australian
Trade Publicity Directorate, easily the
strongest such activity operated by any
country selling on the British market,
and one which itself is currently being
reorganised to work with even greater
effect. While rice will come under the
general Australian promotional umbrella,
it is intended later to carry its identifica-
tion a step further by linking canned
fruit with packeted rice, although
creamed rice will have to serve in this
role for the time being.
The story of creamed rice alone is
something of a sensation. It is from this
quarter that the success of Australian
rice on the British market originally
stemmed, for its introduction to Gilbert
McCaul and Co. began with an inquiry
for Australian rice from the giant British
catering firm J. Lyons and Co. Ltd.
Creamed rice prepared by this company
from Australian grain is now selling in
Britain at the rate of 100 million cans
annually. In the last year alone orders
rose by more than 30 p.c.
The net return for Australian rice on
this market averages about £stg7o a
ton after shipping and other charges
have been deducted. The price to con-
sumers will rise a bit when it comes
packaged. No apology is made for this
because it has been underpriced for


MENSA
Are you interested in belonging to
a society for people with a higher
intelligence than 98 p.c. of the
population?
Do you qualify to join this unique
society?
Write for details, enclosing a sd.
stamp, to:
AUSTRALIAN MENSA
P.O. BOX 134, NORTH SYDNEY
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: JAMES KEVIN KELLY late of Cardiff in
the State of New South Wales. TAKE NOTICE
that KATHLEEN CLEO KELLY has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1045 of 1965 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for two years and upwards and of
separation for five years and upwards. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in
the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street. Sydney by 21st July, 1965 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from Messrs GILL, OXLADE & BROAD,
Solicitors of 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, Town
Agents for Messrs McNEIL & PIRONA, Solici-
tors of 16a Bolton Street, Newcastle, the
Solicitors for the Petitioner. —C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: DONALD LONGHURST. TAKE NOTICE
that SOPHIA LONGHURST has filed a Petition
No. 4107 of 1964 for divorce on the ground of
desertion, notwithstanding the facts and cir-
cumstances set out in a Discretion Statement
filed by her. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Sup-
reme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 22nd day of July,
1965, and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from L. H. BIZANNES & CO., Solicitors
of 271 Pitt Street. Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: JOHN WILLIAM CORRIGAN. TAKE
NOTICE that LOUISE ANN CORRIGAN has
filed a Petition No. 3564 of 1964 for divorce on
the grounds of desertion. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint "Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 21st
day of July 1965, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from A. G. KNOX,
Solicitor of 55 Market Street, . Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: HARLEY TOWERS late of FAIRFIELD.
TAKE NOTICE that GWENDOLINE MAY
TOWERS has filed a Petition for divorce No.
605 on the ground of Desertion. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney on or before 23rd July,
1965, and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from BULL, SON, SCHMIDT & BERG,
Solicitors, of 17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—
C, A, H, HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: JOHN KEVON RICHARDS. TAKE
NOTICE that NANCYE DOROTHY RICHARDS
has filed a Petition No. 656 of 1965 for Divorce
on the grounds of desertion. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 22nd
day of July, 1965, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from BRUCE R.
MILES, Solicitor, 250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: JIMMY GALEA, late of Newtown. TAKE
NOTICE that JOSEPHINE GALEA has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1527 of 1965 on the
ground of desertion. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer at the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 22nd day of July,
1965 and obtain a copy of the Petition and
Notice of Petition without charge from E. G.
SAYEGH, Solicitor, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
years, and its quality, compared with
the rice of America and Egypt which
supply this market with much greater
tonnages, amply justifies a premium.
The rise in price, the removal of
speculation and the opening up of new
outlets will produce an increase in paper
profit, though most of it will not im-
mediately get back to the grower. Rice
producers have acted shrewdly as an
industry and kept most of their earnings
in their own hands. So there is no urgent
need for relief and the extra money will,
for the time being, serve them best by
going into promotion on a scale in keep-
ing with the stature of the trade that is
now emerging.
In essence, what is happening to Aus-
tralian rice is that it is being lifted up
and away from its rivals and into a
special class of its own, where it will
command a special price. A stepping-up
of promotion in the next few years, both
with taxpayers’ money and the industry’s,
will secure it at this new level. The target
of 15,000 tons three years hence would
give Australia 10 to 15 p.c. of the
British rice market.
In the consumer’s mind, rice in the
past has suggested dirt and weevils
a shameful grain that no one cared to
own by embracing with a wrapper. This
image needed changing, so the new
packaging and-the advertising that goes
with it stress hygiene, modern mills and
a degree of glamor that Indian curries
and rice puddings have hitherto not quite
managed to evoke.
Churning Out Troubles
Dairy Produce Board faces critics
yp'HE Australian Dairy Produce Board
A rarely makes the news. It is built
upon solid foundations and it minds its
own business. Unlike the Wheat Board
it does not make mammoth sales to Red
China and Russia. Unlike the Wool
Board it has a fairly unified section of
primary industry behind it.
But the feeling is growing that the
Dairy Board has got itself milked
properly in Asia. One estimate, un-
official, is that nearly £2i million has
gone down the drain in the reconstituted
milk plants in Manila, Thailand and
Singapore. The Manila venture is said
to be the worst. Everything imaginable
has gone wrong.
The immediate reaction is to say: well,
what do you expect? Of course we are
going to be taken for a ride in these
countries. There is, however, a handful
of Australian livestock and primary
produce exporters who have been doing
business for years in Asia and they all
speak highly of the honesty of the
merchants they deal through.
Perhaps that is where the Dairy Board
made the big mistake. Instead of going
in, on the spot, with grandiose plans, it
might have been wiser to deal through
established agents in the normal business
manner. This is what New Zealand is
doing. The New Zealand dairy people
have scrapped plans to go into Hong
Kong and, instead, will send produce to
local agents.
If it had not been for a report in New
Zealand that “the Aussies have got their
fingers burned”, the troubles might not
have come to light.
The Dairy Board, here, appears to
have been keeping it all in the family
all right. They cannot be blamed for
that. Yet, as the Australian public sub-
sidises the dairy industry to the tune of
about £25 million annually, the public
is entitled to know the facts.
The Dairy Board may yet pull the
thing off. Though before they send good
money after bad in an attempt to do this,
it might be wise to take stock of new
developments in dairy science.
Reconstituted milk, as such, may soon
be out of date. The process developed
in Britain about six months ago could
be the biggest breakthrough since the
refrigerator. It will soon be possible to
keep milk fresh for six months. This has
already been done, experimentally.
There are plans to supply all British
armed forces, all around the world,
with this milk. Significantly there is no
special name for it. It is milk. It keeps
for six months in bottles or cans.
More interesting still is the plan of
Dutch and Danish dairy exporters to
send this milk wherever a market offers.
It could come to pass that it would be
cheaper to import “Six-months” milk
from Holland and Denmark than to milk
cows in Australia. We would not allow
that to happen of course. Yet we may
have to do something concrete pretty
soon about a working arrangement with
New Zealand,


the pattern of life today
news
personalities
]x>dks
politics
arts
finance
world events
SUBSCRIPTIONS
26 weeks £2/12/- Aust.
£2/2/- Stg and N.Z.
52 weeks £4/4/- Aust.
£3/7/- Stg. and N.Z.
Send dollar equivalents
to New York and Malay-
sian offices.
Air Mail New Guinea
£7/5/- 12 months. £4/2/6
6 months.
The Bulletin
Australia's
leading journal
of fact
and
opinion
Please tick \/ whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? j~j or
A renewal subscription? j~~j
Post this coupon to THE BULLETIN, Box 4088, G.P.0., Syd-
ney; OR Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.), Ltd. P.O. Box 1595 Wel-
linton C. 1., N.Z., OR Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London; OR Australian Consolidated Press
Ltd., 229 West 43rd Street, New York N.Y., OR Wool-
worths (Malaysia) Ltd., 10 Collyer Quay, Singapore.
New Zealand readers may receive the Air Freighted edition
at £2/12/- New Zealand for 26 issues, £4/4/- New Zealand
for 52 issues.
well informed people
read The Bulletin
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 850
ACROSS
I—Nut which helps Topsy chop Athenians. (10)
s—We giving heart to two in Germany. (4)
9—Nonentity making a seedy protest. (9)
11— Making a little go a long way, he is careless with
his majesty. (5)
12— Change for single nooks. (6)
14 —They pilfer footwear. (8)
16 —Wins dominant control over broom-riders; all power
to them! (6, 8)
17—Shy drips’ voices to be noted
in vessels of exploration. (9, 5)
19— Musical instrument before a
novel of George Preedy. (8)
20 — That is holding the vended
Wagnerian. (6)
22 Discourages advances from a
diseased character who is
backward. (5)
23 Dope providing an obstruc-
tion sank the teeth into one.
(9)
25 An essential for hearing 50 in
the count. (4)
26 Censorable subject robs the
youth from one mother a fort-
night before Lent. (10)
DOWN
1— Fabric supplied by Father
Lindsey. (6)
2 Talk up and pay up! (3)
3 He. is in the middle of a com-
ment on the heat. (4)
4 Characteristic of the klepto-
maniac attractions. (6, 4)
6 A Caucasian getting electric
light into a London district.
(ID
7 Takes into the body. (7)
8— Art in depth if in the isle, so
die! (6, 4,4)
10 —No equal bites, (anagram) (12)
13 —King George as a customer of
the retailer pest. (11)
15—Change in the rear horse’s
shelter can be copped. (10)
17— Variegated Irish under 504.
(7)
18 — A green is damaged by these
broad groups in national
history. (6)
21—A Rhode Island article appear-
ing in the operatic number.
(4)
24—Robin takes heart from this
sash. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 849


The magazine that reflects Australia
Wm
m
m
ft*
♦
*
•
.***
*a*-o> ■
4* : ■:.
■
-c
Mft
4
H
•*» >. s' <? %■? >
r..
■*■■■?
M
KwSSS&Bw*
■-“ -
m
iim
VS
ftj !•; Ki,\
W«
dr*
1
Us
MVel
W?t
MESS
aw
V
r*
si
-"5-
>
Safe
hb
as
w<
m#
m*:
S§l
m
&£
i
/* >
S 1
i
: f.
■
m
m
am
m
*
HI
■i
n
Mwfe
;
'!&§!
■■ ■.■
....
iM h
SMI
*
*K3I
m
■I
::. *:■
Hi
■■l
~! ;
,1-
■
■■■■■.
Ml
:sii :if
M - *.4. ... .
T" y ' :.^ :/ s; '
. r
,•. ■ ’
••••-. - - ',• .-.«•/■- ... ~..,■-■y y.-y/SK-.-.-.-s.. -■■■
WOMEN S WEEKLY
with a free LIFT-OUT BOOK every week


rap
M
rzt
Wms*-.
1} ■■
.> >
*§?s»
mm*.
n
/f£>
*V- :,'
ss*®*
New Galaxie 500
Prestige and value matched perfectly together
The new Ford Galaxie is the finest expression of prestige, plus value for money,
in a motor car, ever to come your way
Step into a new world of luxury
Ford Galaxie 500.
It’s all new from road to roof.
Almost 18 feet from stem to stern.
Nearly two tons of luxury, par
excellence.
Behind the wheel you will experience
breathtaking power from a Super-
Torque“Challenger”2oo-horsepower
V 8 engine, harnessed to the world’s
finest automatic transmission —3-
speed Dual-Range “Cruise-O-Matic”
Drive.
The ride is one of the smoothest,
steadiest and quietest in the entire
motor car industry. The solidity and
strength of the new “Torque-box”
chassis construction is immense.
In so many ways the new Ford
Galaxie 500 offers more car than any
other, irrespective of price. To
appreciate it you must discover it for
yourself. Why not do so now, at your
Ford Dealer’s?
The nezv Ford Galaxie 500 offers
unique investment value. Standard
equipment includes: Power steering
• Power brakes • Deep-pile, fully-
fitted carpets •Luxurious“Deerhide”
expanding-type vinyl upholsteries
• Heater-demister • Electric clock
• Fully-padded instrument panel
• Windshield washers • Reversing
lights • Alternator • “Challenger”
200-hp V 8 engine with “Cruise-O-
Matic” Dual-Range automatic trans-
mission.
£2610 including Sales Tax.
Best year yet to go FORD!
FORD OF AUSTRALIA
F G 332
