

The Bulletin
SOE K A RN O -- 3 f</} l . R E MUS SO LIN I. ?
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
The Nun’s Story


I
Ni
*
. -
M
m
X
i m
m
*■* * *
mmmm
1 -5 ■• -
( HP
_ I 5 1
m
m
HI
m
m
a call to
Geon vinyl resins are used by Olympic Cables
in manufacture of coaxial and telephone cables
to specifications of the P.M.G.
Sheathing based on Geon vinyl resin is used in the coaxial communication cables already
laid from Bunbury to Perth, the same type cable that soon can make inter-city telecasts
possible. Here is resistance to weathering and heat, electrical and mechanical
protection in a single homogeneous covering. In manifold electrical installations, Geon
means no more humidity or ageing problems, no more corrosion, provides brightly-
coloured identification coding. In industry, Geon improves products or evolves new
ones. Have you a product we can help improve or develop?
B. F. Goodrich-C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
Kororoit Creek Road, Altona, Melbourne. Telephone 65-8221 or 2. Kalamazoo House, 182-186 Blues Point Road,
North Sydney, N.S.W. Telephone 92-6319. GEON Agencies in W.A., S.A. and Q'ld. Harrisons & Crosfield (A.N.Z.) LIMITED
M 5525 -


an Vrsivx trows rw-ooii)
International Traders/General Importers and Exporters/Business Consultants
C. ITOH & CO. (Aust.) PTY. LTD.:
188 George St., Sydney. Telex: 20205. Tel.: 27-7611. Cable: “CITOH SYDNEY”
140 King St., Melbourne. Telex: 30313. Tel.: 62-3288. Cable: “CITOH MELBOURNE”
HEAD OFFICE: C.P.O. Box 117, Osaka, Japan. Cable: “CITOH OSAKA”
TOKYO OFFICE: C.P.O. Box 136, Tokyo, Japan. Cable: “CITOH TOKYO”
OTHER OFFICES: Fremantle, Noumea, Djakarta, Singapore, Bangkok, Hong Kong,
New Delhi, Teheran, Karachi, New York, Los Angeles, Montreal, Mexico City Sao
Paulo, Buenos Aires, London, Paris, Hamburg, Milano, Beyrouth, Johannesburg
and other major cities of the world.
Looking for a key
to international trade?
%
Your man from C. /toil
has a key
to every door
C. Itoh, one of Japan’s oldest and most experienced trading com-
panies, is a master locksmith when it comes to opening the doors
of international trade.
With a staff of almost 7,000 experts and over 70 branches
and affiliates throughout the world, C. Itoh offers you fast, efficient
service in export, import, triangular trade and joint investment
ventures.
Why not let your nearby C. Itoh man give you his expert
help? You’ll find one in every major city of the world.
The Bulletin
VOLUME 87
NUMBER 4430
Established 1880
JANUARY 23
1965
The Nuns Story
Changing habits 22
AROUND MELBOURNE 20
BUSINESS AND FINANCE .... 43
CROSSWORD 58
LETTERS 33
MAN ON THE LAND 56
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 9
ON THE MARGIN 36
OVERSEAS 34
PLAIN ENGLISH 13
SCIENCE 32
SPECULATORS DIARY 53
TANNER 12
THIS AUSTRALIA 14
GENERAL
Dr Cairns for Prime Minister? .. 14
Crime Inc. (A ust.) 15
Mao's Man in Melbourne 17
Marjorie Proops interview 26
The Trials of Lenny Bruce 27
Less Gold in English Teeth 29
Wives Who Can’t Conceive 32
REVIEWS
FILMS: Letter from London .... 37
THEATRE: The Glazed Look .. 37
BOOKS
An Area of Darkness by V. S.
Naipaul 39
The Wapshot Scandal by John
Cheever 39
A Little Learning by Evelyn
Waugh 41
FINANCE
Brass Tacks for Bankers 45
Builders’ Suppliers Talk Credit .. 48
On BHP’s Loss of Glamor 54
Editorial Office: 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666, Ext. 2504.


Let us show you the Orient. . .
. . IN OUR FLYING ORIENTAL PALACE . . .
TIfE MANDARIN r»ET
CONVAIR 880-M
Once you step through the Moongate on board CAT's
famous Mandarin Jet, you step into a flying Oriental
Palace. You will marvel at the rich palatial decor and
the many objects of historical or cultural significance. And
while you luxuriate in your plush seat, you will be
pampered by our charming Chinese stewardesses.
So, the gracious way to travel in the Orient is The
Mandarin Way and you will receive traditional Chinese
hospitality all the way.
VISIT TAIWAN —ITS ON YOUR WAY
BETWEEN HONGKONG AND TOKYO
NO EXTRA FARE —NO VISA REQUIRED
(72 HOURS FREE TRANSIT)
Seoul Tokyo Osaka Okinawa Taipei Hongkong Manila Bangkok


ft \ *
Mma&Xmmmrnrnmmmmm-msmmmKmmmfimmwmmmsSwiSmm
> ■ . v:
teSaliif^ill
V*
ssan n
•*#o e c e
SI
S - : ?S
fpsa
issfe
r r>;
.
mmm
.
■ :
actilflaw
. HR HR 5? - I
■" I
: tk
i@aa#aai
ir : .v,S‘. @® ; a§ a&i.iii
•.' • . •
This is a miracle. Here is a
quart contained in a pint pot.
These photographs show the
tiny heart of a mighty central
station refrigerated air con-
ditioning system together
with last year’s model.
It does the same job but it’s
smaller. And better. It is
easierto install and maintain,
it is half the weight and takes
up only one third of the
space. It is quieter, more
reliable, looks better and
behaves magnificently.
This sort of leadership in
design and performance is
the result of more than thirty
years experience in the air
conditioning industry. It
matches the tradition of an
organisation that builds fine
cars.
You should find out more
about this revolutionary new
climate.
MIRACLE
an w
FOR BIG
BUILDINGS
u
CLIMATE BY CHRYSLER
RESIDENTIAL • COMMERCIAL • INDUSTRIAL AIR CONDITIONING
♦Special Leasing facilities are now
available. Please phone or writ©
for details.
Q'LD. Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd.,
620 Stanley St., Woolloongabba.
Phone 4 2941
N.S.W. & A.C.T. Strataflo Pty. Ltd., Cnr.
Parramatta Rd. & Barr St., Camper down..
Phone 51 6645
VIC. Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd.,
291 Moray St., S. Melbourne
Phone 69 7114
S.A. Chrysler Australia Limited,
Air temp Division, Finsbury. Phone 45 3661
W.A. Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd.,
657 Murray St., Perth. Phone 23 2214
AIRTEMP OPERATIONS
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIA LTDW
CM6B


cMe/i:
FREE! TWO BILLION
TIMKEN BEARINGS’
WORTH OF EXPERIENCE
We made our two billionth bearing in 1964. Step
right up with your bearing problem.
Since 1899 when we made our first Timken
tapered roller bearing, we’ve found thousands of
ways to make wheels and shafts turn better. We’ll
help you select the right bearing to give longest
life with the least amount of maintenance.
You are invited to share with us the know-
ledge gained in manufacturing and applying
2,000,000,000 Timken bearings.
Select from over 11,000 sizes and 35 types of
precision-made Timken bearings. They average
300% longer life expectancy than we could offer
16 years ago. And, over the next five years, in our
factories around the world, we’ll be investing
8 million pounds annually in new plant and
research facilities. Call in a Timken bearing
sales engineer. He may not be 65 years old, but
he has this much experience behind him. Aus-
tralian Timken Pty. Ltd., Ballarat, Victoria. Sub-
sidiary of The Timken Roller Bearing Company.
Timken bearings sold in 170 countries, manu-
factured in Australia, Brazil, Canada, England,
France, South Africa and U.S.A.
QUALITY TURNS ON
TIMKEN
REGISTERED TRADE-MARK
TAPERED
ROLLER BEARINGS
*B7


THE GREAT THIRST . . . water the spur to wealth
: m
■ ■■
WM i
m . f
11 mi
S; m
« i
■v-r:
■
■
At £lOO million, vegetables are big business!
Before city dwellers stir to a new day, the vegetable trains and
road transports are unloading supplies which will be on sale to
suburban housewives a few hours later. Tons of fresh vegetables
. . . some fast-freighted from lush farms hundreds of miles
distant . . . some even from interstate.
Twenty-four hours of every day, vegetables are on the move
by rail and road to feed the enormous daily appetite of the
big cities. Australians eat just over a million tons of fresh
vegetables annually, plus 50,000 tons of processed vegetables.
Their vegetable bill, including fresh, canned and frozen varieties
is around £lOO million a year.
It’s a big and busy industry starting with the man on the land
and spreading out through a vast network of transport, distri-
bution, marketing and factory processing.
The humble vegetable however is destined to play an ever
larger role on the national food front. It has been stated by
Mr. E. R. Hoare, of the C.5.1.R.0. Irrigation Research Labora-
tory at Griffith, N.S.W., that of all food crops produced in
Australia, vegetables will require the largest proportional
increase merely to meet the needs of our future population
expansion. He estimates that vegetable production will double
itself within 30 years ... an increase in production value of
between £1 million and £2 million each year.
Thus, vegetables are a vital part of the future picture which
food production will assume in the Australian economy. There
can be no doubt that the coming food production expansion
will go hand in hand with irrigation development. This is not
mere assertion. Currently vegetables worth £5O million, at on-
farm value, are produced from il million acres, most of which
are irrigated. This high level of productivity comes from less
than 1% of all cultivated land in Australia.
Skill in water management and the gaining of maximum
efficiency in the use of water, and the land, will be vital to
our future as a nation and to the prosperity of our people . . .
water, our one limiting resource, will set the pace of our progress.
Throughout Australia, Hardie’s Distributors are key men in
the Irrigation Industry. They were selected for their knowledge,
experience and capacity to cope with the big tasks ahead. They
represent Australia’s biggest and most experienced manu-
facturer of Irrigation Piping and they are ready to give
personal service to those who are preparing to meet the
challenge of the thirsty land.
Hardies FIBROLITE PIPES
■
1
JAMES HARDiE & COY. PTY. LTD. ■ FIRST IN AUSTRALIA
IRSOS


'
now!!!!!!
maximum
security
right at
your
fingertips
WITH
t&c/zw&ocl
SPECIAL
KEYING
SYSTEMS
r
reft I
A 2.
MK-A
A 3,
A 4.
A 3.
MASTER-KEYED SYSTEMS
1
vl
A 5.
A Master-Keyed System is one in which each
.lock has its own individual key,.which oper-
ates that lock only and no other, but where
each lock is also built to a Master-Key which
will open all locks in the group.
Within a Master-Keyed System, if required,
certain • locks may be grouped in a section
Keyed-Alike to a given Service-Key, and still
subject to.the Master-Key.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM YOU
NEED CARRY ONLY ONE KEY
INSTEAD OF HUNDREDS!
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which
operates that lock only and no other, but the
locks are divided into two or more groups,
Each group is subject to its own Master-Key,
which opens all locks in that group, but no
other group.
However, all locks are also subject to a
Grand Master-Key which opens all locks iri
all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike
groups may also be included in G.M.K. Systems.
REPLACING INSECURITY
AND CONFUSION WITH
MAXIMUM SECURITY.
MAXIMUM CONVENIENCE
in industry and commerce today a Lockwood MK System is an essential pre-
requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth' functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade and
Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part of the
building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are held
on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries —enabling quick
replacement of lost keys or damaged locks “true to code”, and allowing absolute
control of additions or extensions to the systems.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss Master-
Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty. Limited
at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention. manufactured in Australia by
LOCK UP
WITH
(&cAlOO42fiC
N.Z. Agent: G. D. LITTLE LTD.,
Wellington and Auckland.
New Guinea Agent: CARL F. RADKE
AGENCIES, Port Moresby.
Ogden Industries
PTY. LIMITED
Melbourne: 569 0611 • Sydney:
56 3191, 56 3114, 56 3166, 56 3186
Brisbane: 7 3047 • Canberra:
4 4098 • Adelaide: 8 2153
Perth: 23 2214 • Hobart: 3 3141
Launceston: 2 1441
Agents also in Kenya, Uganda, Tanganyika, South Africa, The Rhodesias, Malaysia, The Philippines, Hong Kong,
Thailand, Indonesia.


National Notebook
Cultural Commuter *
A ustralia’s most indefatigable cul-
tural commuter, Robert Helpmann,
is back for his third visit within 10
months. He was here for the Adelaide
Festival, then the opening of his ballet
“The Display” in Sydney. We caught
him at Mascot on his way from Japan
through to Melbourne where he has
now begun work with the Australian
Ballet Company on his new ballet,
“Yugen”.
“Yugen”, Mr Helpmann explained,
was a Zen word meaning, roughly, the
essence. The ballet would be based on
a very well-known Noh play with music
by the Japanese composer Toyama.
“Yugen” is the story of the moon god-
dess who comes down to swim at her
favorite pool but loses her wings when
a fisherman mistakes them for shells.
She goes to the village festival in search
of her wings but no one recognises her
as the moon goddess without them.
That, Mr Helpmann says, is where lies
the moral of the tale. If you don’t
wear your crown no one knows you're
king.
Mr Helpmann said the dancing would
be a combination of classical Japanese
dancing and classical ballet, the first,
he thought, that had ever been attempt-
ed. When the moon goddess dances
on points it will mean that she is flying,
which, Mr Helpmann said, was the ori-
ginal significance of dancing on points.
Mr Helpmann said that he had made
some study of Japanese dancing, which
he found “enormously difficult”, to pre-
pare himself for devising the choreo-
graphy for the ballet. However, he
does not want it to be Cho-cho-san
Japanese. The dancers will wear kimo-
nos and Japanese-style wigs but these
will be made of horsehair to achieve
lightness and a semi-transparent look.
He brought with him from Japan 80
fans, 56 umbrellas and several dozen
pairs of tabi, the sock-shoes the Japan-
ese wear.
“Yugen” will be one of the ballets
danced by the Australian Ballet Com-
pany during its tour overseas this year.
It will open in Adelaide on February 18
and tour most States before the com-
pany leaves Australia. Mr Helpmann's
“The Display” is also in the repertory,
but he has no plans for another ballet
for the company at the moment. An
earlier project, commissioned by the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust, for doing the
“Eureka Stockade” as a dance-drama
with story by Kenneth Cook and music
by Peter Sculthorpe, has fallen through.
Mr Helpmann is full of plans for' the
Australian Ballet Company's tour,
which, he believes, with the right out-
look and organisation could last for 12
months. He thinks the company may
go first to South Africa, then to Beirut,
Athens, London and British provincial
cities, then Los Angeles, Honolulu and
Japan. All this is tentative, but if it
doesn’t come off it won’t be Mr Help-
mann’s fault. (Incidentally, he was
wearing the ribbon of the Order of the
Cedar, presented to him two years ago
by the President of the Lebanon. He
can now wear this as he was awarded
the CBE last year.)
Mr Helpmann has already used his
influence with the administrator of the
Royal Opera House, Covent Garden,
Mr David Webster, to have the Austra-
lian Ballet Company’s season there ex-
tended from the one night, which has
been arranged by the Commonwealth
Festival of the Arts people, to four
nights.
“Imagine—one night!” Mr Helpmann
said. “You would get all the Austra-
lians in London there that night. Then
it would be finished.” Mr Helpmann
said that the only other ballet group
visiting England during the festival
would be the Royal Winnipeg Ballet,
which, he felt, would not provide much
competition for the Australians.
Another “deal” which Mr Helpmann
has so far swung is to get the Royal
Ballet Company to give the Australian
company scenery and orchestrations of
his own ballet “Electra” which has sets
and costumes by Arthur Boyd. The
company may add the ballet to its
repertoire while it is in England. Mr
Helpmann is also still working very
hard to arrange for Sir Frederick Ashton,
the Royal Ballet Company's principal
choreographer, to come to Australia to
prepare a ballet for the Australian com-
pany. In the meantime, he feels that
Sir Frederick will present his ballet
“La Fille Malgardee” to the company
while it is in England.
After so much devoted work for the
Australian Ballet, it certainly seems time
that the relationship between Mr Help-
mann and the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust should be regularised. At the
moment Mr Helpmann sprints ahead,
working, planning, achieving, with
members of the Trust panting behind,
exclaiming “Golly, how marvellous!” at
intervals. But the thing may soon be
put on a better footing with Mr Help-
mann as artistic adviser to the ballet
company and here for perhaps three
months of the year, or, probably, as
long as the English winter is at its most
severe.
“And I don’t suppose,” came a wist-
ful little voice, “you could do anything
for the drama, Mr Helpmann?”
Involvement
/"\ne of the Ministers for Education
and Science in the new British Labor
Government, Lord Bowden, will attend
the Institute of Political Science’s seminar
ROLL CAMERA ... ACTION! OK ... CUT!


m
M
m
Wr
£
n
x
Vi
* The Post Office “HOUSEHOLDER”
Mail Service is now offered at 30%
less than ordinary postage rates.
“HOUSEHOLDER” MAIL REALLY
GETS YOUR MESSAGE INTO
EVERY HOME OR OFFICE
We guarantee delivery, with the mail,
to every address in the area you choose.
We’ll deliver to any area—from
a few streets, to the whole of Australia.
We’ll tell you exactly how many
homes and businesses in the area —you
tell us how many you want covered.
You won’t need address lists.
You won't have to type addresses.
You just print "Householder” or a
similar title on each article and we
will do the rest.
Enquire NOW from your local Postmaster
or the Superintendent, Mail Exchange
Branch, in your State capital city.
Australian
Post
Office


on tertiary education at Canberra on
Anniversary Day weekend. Lord Bow-
den accepted the invitation before his
party won the election, so he comes in
his capacity as principal of the Man-
chester College of Science and Tech-
nology.
The institute had hoped that the
seminar would discuss the long-awaited
Martin report on tertiary education.
However, the report is still awaited and
discussion will be mainly on what the
report should recommend.
Lord Bowden may, among other
things, be able to explain to people
attending the seminar just how things are
working out in Britain with a Minister
for Education and Science, Mr Michael
Stewart, and a Minister for Technology,
Mr Frank Cousins, in the Cabinet, two
Ministers for Education and Science with
Cabinet rank but not members of Cabi-
net, Lord Bowden himself and Mr
Reginald Prentice and two under-
secretaries in the same Ministry, Mr
James Boyden and Mr Denis Howell.
With the carving up of what was Mr
Quentin Hogg’s empire in the old Gov-
ernment such things as memos and forms
in simple triplicate must be things of
the past.
As well, bustling along the corridors
of power is Lord Snow, Parliamentary
secretary to the Ministry of Technology.
The first idea of the two Ministries, ap-
parently, was to split pure science off
from applied. However, having done that
Harold Wilson then appointed Lord
Snow, a pure scientist, to the technologi-
cal ministry, under Frank Cousins, a
largely self-educated trade union leader,
and Lord Bowden, whose work has
mostly been in scientific education (al-
though he worked under Lord Ruther-
ford for three years in the thirties) to
the ministry mostly concerned with pure
science.
End of an Era
the meat in the sandwich be-
tween Penfolds Wine bar and
Grubb's the Bytcher with the Pink Pussy
Cat as top dressing the Hasty Tasty of
King's Cross, Sydney, is no more. A
sign in the window, once crammed with
mince-meat and chopped onions reads
“Closed for Extensive Alterations”.
The toasters, grillers, broilers, and
ovens which heated, warmed and some-
times half-warmed millions of eggs,
burgers with “the lot’’, steaks and chips,
have all been sold at auction or mashed
at the junk yard.
The Hasty Tasty would never have
rated even a point of a star in Miche-
lins’ Guide but throughout Australia it
was the Cross's best-known contribution
to gastronomic standards. The place
began earning its national and interna-
tional reputation (letters, especially from
American sailors, used to be addressed
to friends c/- Hasty Tasty, Australia)
in 1939.
Sydney’s Alderman Con. Wallace, one
of the shareholders who parted with it,
spoke of the pioneering role played by
the Hasty Tasty in the 24-hour-a-day
eating field. “I took over as manager
in 1947 but it was in 1952 that we first
brought 24-hour service to Sydney.
Despite legal and other problems we
pioneered it. How it came about was
that a large number of people were
attending Anzac dawn services without
being able to get anything to eat or
drink. I felt it was my duty as an ex-
serviceman to do something about it.
So we opened one Anzac morning and
the authorities seemed to be quite
sympathetic.”
Alderman Wallace felt that the pass-
ing of any colorful place like the Hasty
Tasty was a cause for regret. “But the
hamburger joint has just about had its
day. The Hasty Tasty idea of moving
the hamburger away from the stand or
the snack bar and into the dining room
was a novelty at the time. Now, people
can afford to pay more for what they
want in the way of food.”
The “extensive alterations” referred
to in the sign are being made by Mr
George Vlasic who for the last 18
months has been managing the Elizabeth
Bay pancake cellar “Mother’s” while his
wife Doreen has been managing the sister
cellar two doors down, “Aunty’s”. After
spending about £lO,OOO on renovations
George hopes to open in the first week
of March with a medium-priced restaur-
ant and pancake place.
No Aura of Piety
A merican-based freelance journalist
Harold Waters is in Australia to
write about the Roman Catholic Church
here for the American “Catholic Digest”.
Waters left Australia some 25 years
ago when he was a 16-year-old North
Queenslander employed “as a navvy,
brewing tea for the workers on the
Atherton Tableland”.
He said he had reached Sydney by way
of Palm Island, where he had spent ten
days living among Aborigines. “They’ve
always got stories that are easy to sell
in the States,” he told us. Waters flew to
Australia as a guest of the USAF, a
privilege continually accorded him in his
world travels because of his 23 years’
service with the US Coastguards. “I can
even take my wife along free whenever
there's room on the plane for her,” he
said.
How would he be approaching his
story on Australian Catholicism? “Well,
there will be something about Cardinal
Gilroy, Archbishop Duhig and Mr Santa-
maria. They’re the top three figures here,
I gather. But one thing there won’t be
will be an aura of piety. The ‘Catholic
Digest’ always instructs you to cut out
piety from your articles. They’d hate to
develop into just another religious fan
magazine.”
IMAGINARY CONVERSATION
ffifcuCLetCn
80 Years Ago: January 24, 1885
Mr James Service (Premier of Vic-
toria and ardent advocate of the an-
nexation of New Guinea): “Permit
me, in the name of the Australian
people, to welcome you to our
shores. It is indeed an honor to
meet, in this Queen City of the
South, one whose name is a house-
hold word.”
Mr J. A. Fronde (who is collect-
ing material for his book on Austra-
lia): “Thank you very sincerely. But
allow me, at the very beginning, to
say that it is not alone your pheno-
menal material progress that I and
other visitors so admire. It is your
modesty that I consider your chief
attraction. You should be a little
more self-assertive.”
Mr S. (uneasily): “There is some-
thing in what you say. Apropos, how
did the English people receive the
news that some of our more exci-
table citizens had gone so far as to
hint at cutting the painter?”
Mr F.: “My dear sir, we can afford
to be frank. You deceive yourselves,
England’s place at the European
Council table is determined by her
trade, her money, her position, and
her population. For none of these
is she dependent on her colonies. It
is very good and affectionate of you
to desire to keep in the British Em-
pire. Where you make the mistake
is in supposing that you in any way
strengthen the United Kingdom. On
the contrary, you weaken her. You
Australians have too long been dry-
nursed on the glories of the Nile,
Trafalgar, and Waterloo, just as the
poor French were on Marengo and
Austerlitz, till Sedan opened their
eyes. Today, a half-hour’s successful
trip of a torpedo-boat may mean the
collapse of an Empire,
Mr S.: “You surprise me. But
what bearing has all this on the occu-
pation of New Guinea?”
Mr F.: “Time presses. There is a
picnic at Geelong which I promised
to attend.”


Tanner
"Hmm! That's an interesting bunch of peace proposals you have there."


PLAIN ENGLISH
Sir Winston Churchill
Tt is probably better to say of Sir
Winston Churchill, as Sir Isaiah
Berlin did recently, that he was “the
largest human being of our time” and
leave it at that. Otherwise —and this
is a measure of the world’s reaction to
the news of his grave illness—the mind
ranges inevitably if uneasily from Lin-
coln to Pericles to find the suitable
historical counterparts. Certainly no
name from the twentieth century com-
pares with this mixture of legendary
hero, prodigious orator, savior of his
country, exuberant aristocrat and great
libertarian.
Yet if one does attempt to generalise
about his greatness, it is naturally to
his transformation of Britain in 1940
that one must turn. After Dunkirk he
wrote: “It fell on me in these coming
days and months to express the
people’s sentiments on suitable
occasions. This I was able to do
because they were mine also. There
was a white glow, overpowering, sub-
lime, which ran through our island
from end to end.” In fact, he did
vastly more than reflect the people’s
sentiments; he created, or at least
awakened, them. He threw a spell
which dramatised people’s lives,
making the cowardly brave, the con-
fused clear-headed, and convincing all
that this was “a time when it was
equally good to live or die”. He
persuaded not only Britain but the
world that the Battle of Britain was
a new Thermopylae, and it will be
decades before anyone can describe
those years in terms different from
the vision he imposed. As far as one
can say such things of one man, he
won the war; certainly without him
it may well have been lost.
This magical power to dramatise
lives and transform people is a
dangerous power which this century
has perhaps seen too much of It is
a power that all the great dictators
have, and after the war there was an
understandable reaction against epic
occasions and heroic ideas which
had brought so much glory and also
so much suffering. This was a re-
action with which, characteristically,
Churchill would have agreed, for,
although he loved war, no man could
have been less like the dictators.
Firstly his oratory, his power to
transform people, w.based not on
any vision of building a new order or
reviving a dead one but on a romantic
faith in a fixed and colorful pageant
of world history. No sociologist or
scholar, his has been both a simple and
aristocratic view of life which few of
his contemporaries shared and which
today only President de Gaulle seems
to accept in a similar spirit. For him
there is a natural world order and
hierarchy composed of great civilisa-
tions like Britain, Germany, France,
Italy. He did not see how this world
could or should change in any revolu-
tionary way, and he saw the issue it
faces as unchanging and simple the
issue of good and evil. This is not a
sophisticated view, rather one of epical
simplicity. “The ideas set forth,” he
wrote characteristically in criticism of
a 1940 Foreign Office draft, “appeared
to me to err in trying to be too clever,
to enter into refinements of policy un-
suited to the tragic simplicity and
grandeur of the times and the issues
at stake.” He had an inspirational not
an analytical view of the world.
With this poetic vision or noble
myth, he did not want to destroy but
to preserve his country’s and Europe’s
traditions. Unlike the dictators, he
saw the British epic as a moment in
history, not as a way of life to be
imposed forever. He is, in con-
ventional terms, a traditionalist (but
not of a conventional kind: “The
traditions of the Royal Navy,” he
once said scornfully. “What are they?
Rum, sodomy, and the lash”).
Although his political defeat after the
war was a personal blow, he knew
how to accept it.
Further, he has been a great liber-
tarian. His political ideas were those of
American democracy and his greatest
loathing was reserved for usurpers and
dictators: for Hitler, “This evil man,
this monstrous abortion of hatred and
defeat”; for Stalin, “at once a callous,
a crafty and an ill-informed giant”; for
Franco, “a narrow-minded tyrant . . .
of evil qualities” oppressing a “blood-
drained people”.
To all this one must add the col-
ossal exuberance of the man, his love
of life, his shameless ambition. (“Am-
bition,” he said plainly, “not so much
for vulgar ends but for fame glints in
every mind.”) Few men listened so
obviously to the hoofbeat of the horse
of history waiting for the moment to
jump on and, having jumped, enjoyed
the ride so much. “It is impossible,”
he wrote in 1940, “to quell the in-
ward excitement which comes from a
prolonged balancing of terrible
things.”
Inevitably he did not relish the
company of the conventional members
of the Tory Party which never fully
trusted his independent and stubborn
brilliance. Typically he has spent much
of his last years not in the company of
the British Establishment but with
such men as the Canadian-born Lord
Beaverbrook, the Greek magnate Ari-
stotle Onassis, the American Jewish
banker Bernard Baruch.
More than any other man in the
twentieth century he combined and
realised the ideas of grandeur, exuber-
ance and freedom. The world without
him may well wonder who is there now
to revive them.


THIS AUSTRALIA
Dr Cairns for Prime Minister?
Behind the “I Like Arthur ” Club
MELBOURNE Victorian Labor
politics at the moment, are, as Voltaire
said of the English, “sad but not seri-
ous”. The Leftist junta which runs
the Victorian ALP, and which formerly
had little regard for Mr Arthur Calwell
in public and none in private, has been
busily engaged in establishing an “I
Like Arthur” Club.
Foundation members of the club
were Albert McNolty, former president
of the Victorian ALP and present
Treasurer, Roy Cameron, a member of
the ALP Central Executive, and Geoff
McDonald, who until a couple of years
ago was one of the key Communist
party activists in trade unions.
It is generally believed at the Mel-
bourne Trades Hall that these three,
with the assistance of ex-NSW MHR,
Leslie Haylen, drafted the recent re-
markable “Calwell Testimonial” and
then hawked it around until they ob-
tained the signatures of 65 union secre-
taries underneath. The testimonial
states, among other things, that “the
work of statesmen, unlike the operations
of people engaged in other fields of
human activity, usually sees its greater
achievements when those so engaged
approach and pass the age of 70.”
Moving from general laws of human
behavior to particular instances, it adds
“in our opinion, and in the view of our
party, which i-s the largest political
party in Australia, Arthur Calwell at 68
is on the threshold of even greater
achievements in leading Labor forward
in the future”.
It was strange to read on and dis-
cover that those who had coined or used
the epithet “Awful Arthur” only a few
years ago were now persuaded that “he
has won the confidence of our party
because of loyal endeavor and a con-
tinuous display of ability such as is
known to Labor's political enemies as
well as to ourselves”, and that “his
recent authorship of ‘Labor’s Role in a
Modern Society’ is testimony to his
political standing and his capacity to
present a case for Labor, not only by
his public utterances as a politician but
as a theoretician" .
This statement does not exactly ask
for support for Calwell; its signatories
are asked only to admire him. It was
thus signed by a couple of DLP union
secretaries as well as by ALP members
and pro-Communists. (One of the DLP
secretaries explained that he signed his
name because he was told that the
document said Calwell should not be
sacked just because he was nearly 70.)
The major purpose behind the state-
ment is not, of course, to praise or per-
manently consolidate the position of
Calwell as Federal Parliamentary
Leader: it is to prevent Gough Whitlam
from rising to leadership. The chief
strategic objective is to make Calwell
depend more and more heavily on Left-
wing support and to force him to pay
the price of backing Dr Jim Cairns for
deputy leader, and, eventually, for
leader, of the Parliamentary party.
A clumsy attempt was made to get
the signature of Mick Jordan, Secre-
tary of the Trades Hall Council and
leader of the anti-Communist forces in
the Victorian ALP. When his signa-
ture did not appear (and those of his
closest allies, Ken Stone and Gil Hayes
did not appear either) the story was
peddied around the Trades Hall that
they had refused to sign and were now
publicly anti-Calwell.
The fact was that Jordan, observing
the basic ambiguity of the document,
realised that his signature might be used
as a weapon against Whitlam and told
the hawkers of the document that he
could not sign it until he showed it to
the Trades Hall Council Executive. At
no time did he say that he would refuse
to sign. Both Stone and Hayes were
on holidays when the signatures were
collected and no attempt was made to
reach them.
The newly founded “I Like Arthur”
Club no doubt realised that if they
failed to trap the Jordan group into
DR J. F. CAIRNS
signing they might make some political
capital out of the absence of their
signatures. However, the fact that the
document has now been signed by both
notorious pro-Communists and “group-
ers’’ has brought a comic strain into
the campaign which has prevented it
generating much permanent signifi-
cance.
Some of the Jordan supporters at the
Trades Hall are contemplating drawing
up a document which commends
equally, the work of both Calwell and
Whitlam and wishes them a long and
fruitful political partnership until such
time as “circumstances and the passage
of time cause our respected Federal
leader, Mr Arthur Calwell. to hand over
the reins of office to his equally worthy
deputy, Mr Gough Whitlam’’.
They guarantee that many more than
65 secretaries would, reluctantly or
otherwise, feel obliged to sign such a
document.
LAW
Miss Shepherd’s Prosecution
“Ulterior motives ” and “ blackmail ”
SYDNEY When the second Maher
case began in Sydney last Thursday and
the Speaker of the NSW Parliament
appeared to answer a second charge of
indecent exposure, this time on a sum-
mons taken out by Miss Elizabeth
Shepherd, tensions exploded at the Bar
table as soon as J. W. Smythe, QC (for
Mr R. S. Maher), said that “a bitter
antipathy existed between Mr Maher
and Mr Evatt” when the latter was “in
politics”.
Mr Evatt, appearing for Miss Shep-
herd, leapt to his feet to interject that
this remark verged on blackmail and
was quite false. Mr Smythe turned to
Mr Evatt and said, “You've no right to
interrupt me!” Mr Evatt told him his
instructions were obviously false and
obviously from Mr Maher. He asked
Mr C. K. Ward, SM, if he was going
to allow this sort of personal attack
to continue. Mr Ward said he intended
to stop it.
Mr Evatt asked for Miss Shepherd's
case to be heard immediately, repeating
that no priority should be given one
prosecution merely because it was the


first made, and suggesting that in such
circumstances the possibility of a “sham
prosecution” was obvious.
Mr Smythe said that it was not diffi-
cult to see what Mr Evatt’s “ulterior
motive” might be in attempting to pro-
secute Mr Maher on Miss Shepherd’s
behalf. Mr Evatt's immediate reply
was that his only motive was to reveal
the truth.
Mr Kerr contended that once the
Crown takes over a prosecution (as in
the earlier charge against Mr Maher)
it became a public prosecution and must
take precedence over a private prose-
cution.
Mr C. K. Ward, SM, adjourned the
hearing until January 25—the same date
to which the police case against Mr
Maher had been adjourned. Mr Kerr
asked him to make it clear that the
police case would be given precedence
on that day. Mr Evatt asked that no
such thing be asserted at this stage. Mr
Ward said he would adjourn the hear-
ing until January 25 and say no more.
NORTHERN TERRITORY
Aboriginal “Nationalism”
“As soon as I saw Kenyatta l liked him ”
DARWIN Kenya’s Minister for
Justice, Mr Tom Mboya, cast a longer
shadow than he knew during his whirl-
wind tour of Australia last year. In-
directly it looks as if he could be re-
sponsible for the election of Australia’s
first full-blood Aborigine to Parliament.
The Parliament in question is the
Northern Territory Legislative Council
and the newcomer who could be taking
his seat on the elected benches is Mr
Phillip Roberts of Darwin, the Terri-
tory’s best known Aborigine now that
Albert Namatjira is dead.
The seat on which Roberts has his
eye is Arnhem, a vast sprawling elec-
torate taking in a huge slice of the Top
End and one in which the Aborigines
are possibly in the majority. It is now
held by Darwin real estate agent Ken
Waters.
Three years ago Phillip Roberts, a
medical assistant with the Common-
wealth Health Department in Darwin,
would no more have thought of standing
for Parliament than of flying to the
moon. He was a quiet, retiring man
who shunned politics like the plague.
Then he was rocketed into the national
limelight when Douglas Lockwood’s
prizewinning book on his life, “I, the
Aboriginal”, was followed up by an ABC
television film based on the book.
Roberts, reluctantly at first, began to
find himself a spokesman for the Abori-
gines together with the more raucous
and Left-leaning Davis Daniel, an
orderly at the Darwin hospital. Influ-
enced by sympathetic Europeans, the
two joined forces and the Aborigines
Advancement League of the Northern
Territory was formed.
Roberts’ political awakening has been
a gradual and perhaps inevitable busi-
ness, but the spark which fired him
with the wish to speak in higher coun-
cils was undoubtedly his visit to Kenya
under the aegis of Tom Mboya who be-
lieves in encouraging aboriginal “nation-
alism”.
He invited Phillip Roberts and Davis
Daniel to Kenya for the independence
celebrations. In Kenya they stayed at
the New Stanley hotel, Nairobi's best,
and had a chauffeur-driven car (a Hol-
den) at all times. They met Cabinet
ministers, toured factories, and even met
Jorno Kenyatta — “From the moment I
saw him I liked him,” said Roberts.
A year ago, Roberts was reserved,
hard to draw out, even reticent. Now
he speaks with poise and confidence,
showing glimpses of a mind toughened
by what he saw in Kenya. There is
little doubt that his 14 days there im-
pressed Roberts and hardened his re-
solve to fight even more actively for
Aboriginal rights.
PETER BLAKE
TOM MBOYA
PHILLIP ROBERTS
J. KENYATTA
RACKETS
Crime Inc.
(Aust.)
Cusack of Narcotics rides again
SYDNEY “Strong-arm tactics will
make monopolies in labor racketeering
and the drink traffic, and even in the
importation of olive oil, tomato paste and
cheese, the baking and selling of Italian
pastries, the poker machine business and
the control of night clubs, taverns, record
companies, theatre booking agencies and
building and road construction compa-
nies”. This is the kind of development
that John T. Cusack, District Supervisor
of the US Bureau of Narcotics, envisages
within 25 years in Australia if we do
not take drastic steps to deal with “the
menace of Australian Mafia-type secret
societies”.
It all has a familiar ring. And any-
one acquainted with the abundant litera-
ture on American crime will recognise
both the style and the content. For
few books that deal with organised crime
appear without copious quotation from
Cusack’s public statements of his testi-
mony before one or other of the in-
numerable American Crime Investigating
Committees or Commissions. For many
years now in the face of profound
scepticism on the part of the FBI, the
Justice Department and other law en-
forcement officials “Cusack of the Nar-
cotics Bureau” has been warning
America about the existence of a secret
international criminal syndicate vari-
ously designated as the Mafia, the
Honorable Society or Cosa Nostra.
Now that he has turned his attention
to the Australian scene it is, therefore,
not altogether surprising to find that we
too, all unaware, are threatened with
“the infiltration of sinister secret socie-
ties”. Whoever financed his trip can
scarcely complain that they didn’t get
value for their money. One feels
that the “secret mission” to Sydney and
Canberra for secret talks with police
chiefs must have raised some ironical
eyebrows here and there—as must his
refusal to trust official telephones to
confirm appointments. (Apparently Mr
Cusack preferred “government-sealed
envelopes that were delivered by safe
hand”.)
Such attempts to inject a little
poetry into the prosaic reality of routine
police work are harmless enough, but
some aspects of Mr Cusack’s report
deserve more critical scrutiny.
Thus it is said that a powerful inter-
state criminal organisation “even older
than the Mafia itself, and certainly no
less dangerous” has for some time been
operating in Australia, apparently with


The Real Cutting Edge
Of Your
Foreign Competition
With a little hit of tariff protection you
can stand up to foreign competitors even if
they have longer experience, more capital,
lower labour costs.
But if they have more advanced tech-
nology in their manufacturing plants, watch
out. Tariffs won t protect you for long.
If you have a wary eye on competition—
and if welding is part of your manufactur-
ing cost —you should he in regular touch
with Lincoln for two reasons.
First, as Australia’s largest maker of arc
welding equipment, with direct connections
in most parts of the world, we know what
is happening technically throughout the
world of welding. We have to.
Secondly (and more important), we think
costs. Welding is more than a matter of
electrodes and equipment; it is a process
that can produce your products better, at
less cost. The man from Lincoln is trained
to recognise potential welding improve-
ments. When he is in your shop he is not
working for us but for you.
Are you getting this sort of help —or only
welding supplies, as ordered? For the sake
of your balance sheet you ought to have
both.
THE LINCOLN ELECTRIC COMPANY
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • NEW ZEALAND
impunity. Mr Cusack, we are told,
“names the organisers, the leaders and
the executioners from the Queensland
canefields, through the Sydney by-streets
to Victoria's fruit-crop areas". It is,
to say the least, remarkable that neither
the Commonwealth Police Force nor any
one of the three State Forces involved
have detected the operations of this
organisation prior to this—especially as
both the Victorian and New South Wales
forces have in the past shown them-
selves able to deal very effectively with
criminal gangs. But this is not all. For
this same clandestine organisation,
having successfully eluded four police
forces, was powerless to prevent a visi-
tor, unfamiliar with the country, from
uncovering, in three short months, what
must be amongst their most closely
guarded secrets. It is little wonder that
the Victorian Attorney-General, Mr A.
Rylah, is taking the whole thing very
seriously. One hopes that Mr Cusack
kept a copy of that list of names. For
by now some bungling idiot in the Vic-
torian Police Force is pretty certain to
have mislaid it.
Not that any of this would matter
very much were it not for the danger
ARTHUR RYLAH
that scarce police resources may be di-
verted from straightforward law enforce-
ment and committed to the pursuit of
a mythical “syndicate” or “crime cartel”.
Already there is talk of the formation
of special squads to deal solely with
“mobster-migrants”. These squads should
be warned that experience in America
has shown criminals to be amongst the
most enthusiastic pedlars of master-mind
and secret conspiracy theories.
There are two reasons. One is that
extortionists more effectively terror-
ise their victims if they can induce them
to believe that they are backed by some
all-powerful organisation. The second is
that the more police there are engaged
in chasing phantoms the less will be
available to investigate rackets.
There is one other danger to which
attention should be drawn. Every out-
break of Mafia stories encourages the
xenophobic delusion that the crime pro-
blem in Australia is largely the work of


THE PUBLIC
SERVICE OF
PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
Department of Labour
Senior
Industrial
Training
Officer
£2741-£2SBS p.a.
Salary quoted is actual for single male;
married male receives an additional £lBO p.a.
QUALIFICATIONS: Experience as a Training Officer in indus-
try or commerce. Completion of four basic Training Within
Industry Institutes desirable. Appropriate University degree
desirable. Victorian Leaving Certificate or equivalent essential.
APPOINTMENT: Term engagement available.
LEAVE: Th ree months after each 21 months; additional three
months after six years’ service; assisted leave fares paid to
Australia.
TAXATION: Income Tax in the Territory is at present about
half that payable in Australia for the same net taxable income.
FURTHER INFORMATION: Full particulars and applica-
tion form available from The Secretary, Department of
Territories, Canberra, A.C.T., with whom applications
close on 6th February, 1965.
Quote Advertisement No. 190.
immigrants—in particular Italian immi-
grants.
In fact, however, such evidence as is
available indicates that the reverse is
true. It is the native-born Australians
and British immigrants who have the
highest crime rate.
GORDON HAWKINS
UNIONS
Escalation
The truck-driver, the Commis-
sioner and the BHP
PERTH —As an example of indus-
trial escalation, consider the case of
Kwinana truck-driver Percy Anthony.
He drove his truck at the BHP steel-rol-
ling mill. For many years he had been a
Transport Workers’ Union shop stew-
ard. He was sacked —as others have
been—for going outside the company’s
gates without permission. (It was
claimed that he had seen someone tam-
pering with his car in the car-park and
went out to check.) 300 workers at
the plant then w'ent on strike, demand-
ing his reinstatement. The case went
before the Chief Conciliation Commis-
sioner, Mr Fred Schnaars. The former
union secretary followed the course he
had taken on eight other occasions
since the new Industrial Arbitration Act
came into force and recommended that
the driver be given his job back. He
added that there was not the slightest
suggestion that Anthony had been vic-
timised because he was a shop steward.
However, BHP has exercised its right
to reject Mr Schnaars’ recommenda-
tion and there appears no likelihood
that it will reverse its decision.
Unexpected backing for the union
has come from “The West Australian”,
the conservative Perth daily, which
urged in an editorial (headed “BHP
Snubs Schnaars”) that the Minister for
Labor, Mr Gerry Wild, “should certainly
ask BHP to carry out Mr Schnaars’
recommendation (to reinstate Mr
Anthony). Considering that it has re-
ceived such favorable treatment from
this Government, BHP could scarcely
refuse.” The paper also urged amend-
ment of the Arbitration Act to give the
Commissioner power to order reinstate-
ments.
Further evidence that a showdown is
brewing came when the secretary of
the Trades and Labor Council, Mr
J. W. Coleman, told BHP workers last
week: “If you decide that a more direct
approach is to be made in this matter,
you won’t be isolated in this struggle.”
At the time of going to press, Mr
Wild has announced that he will urge
BHP to reinstate Anthony.
COMMUNISTS
Mao’s Man in Melbourne
From strength to strength
SYDNEY —Mr E. F. (Ted) Hill’s
pro-Peking Communist Party of Aus-
tralia (Marxist/Leninist) has been with
us now for a year. When it was offici-
ally started, most observers (including
this writer) gave it little chance of sur-
vival and the old officially pro-Moscow
CPA was contemptuous of “this tiny,
noisy group”. In the past twelve
months, however, Hill has achieved
everything he set out to do, and a note
of near hysteria has begun to creep into
the sneers of the old CPA.
Hill’s party really began, for all in-
tents and purposes, in April, 1963, when,
at the CPA’s Victorian State Conference,
Hill’s main enemy, Laurie Aarons, or-
ganised a stacked meeting which by 153
votes to 16 defeated Hill's supporters.
Hill seemed isolated and doomed. But
soon after there was a spate of resig-
nations from the CPA, as influential
Communists aligned themselves with
Hill amid fanfares of publicity. These
resignations have continued.
The point for the pro-Moscow CPA,
then as now, is that while Hill’s party
was and is united, there are three diver-
gent groups inside the CPA (the Aarons
faction, the Sharkey faction, and the
Italian-liners), each pulling in different
directions. Hill has the advantage.
He went first to Peking where he
had discussions with Communist leaders
from China, Indonesia, Japan, Korea
and New Zealand. Almost certainly
some form of Chinese-led International
was conceived at this time, as was the
decision for Hill to form his own
pro - Peking Communist Party. Most
important for Hill was that support of
a material kind began to come his way.
Large quantities of propaganda printed
in China were made available to his


YOU’LL DO MORE... SEE MORE!
WHEN YOU
FLY
Ansett
AVI
DRIVE RENT-A-CAR
Falcon
There’s more time for business or pleasure when you travel
this modern . . . more convenient . . . more economical way!
With ANSETT-ANA's system of Golden jets, you jet to your
destination at 7 miles a minute in luxuri-
ous comfort. After arriving fresh and
relaxed, your sparkling new AVIS Falcon
will be waiting at any airport through-
out Australia. It’s yours to drive
wherever you want . . . whenever you
want as your very own!
Enjoy this modern, time and
money saving way of travel the
next time you make a business
or pleasure trip! Reserve your
AVIS Falcon when you book your
Ansett-ANA flight. It’s as simple
as that!
t f
*1
mm
m
m
lililil
'•::||: i:•«!: ;7 J^i iWj: ; ; : iiS.£ii
V-VyS&§®gj§HM
m
ilitii
rnmmrn
mmm
iliii
illlis
m
:m':
V
si
ANSETT-ANA A VIS rent-a-car
676/83/64
apparatus. The Chinese theoretical
weekly “Peking Review” began appear-
ing in letter-boxes all across Australia,
as did Anna Louise Strong’s “News-
letter” and a continuous stream of some
30 pamphlets. In addition the Hsinhua
Newsagency opened a branch in Mel-
bourne, staffed by Hill follower Mr
Duncan Clarke. This, in effect, provided
a Chinese-paid full-time organiser for
Hill. Evidence of further aid is seen in
the recent opening of the Arcade Book-
shop in Melbourne’s Bourke Street. Sell-,
ing a large range of books and goods
from Red China and the Far East, the
shop would provide a constant source
of revenue.
In September, 1963, the first number
of Hill’s paper “Vanguard” appeared,
followed in November by the monthly
theoretical journal “The Australian
Communist”. Hill now talks of print-
ing the works of Lenin here. As far
as propaganda amongst Communists
and the far Left goes, Hill's party has
left the old CPA for dead.
By the beginning of 1964 enough
members had left the old CPA to make
the Aarons group wish it had never
heard of Hill. For obvious reasons the
majority of these people came from
Victoria and included well-known offi-
cials from the Tramways, Builders’
Laborers’, Painters’, Liquor Trades’ and
Waterside Workers’ Unions. This strong
base in the trade unions has eliminated
any doubt as to Hill's capacity to chal-
lenge the CPA.
Most of the CPA’s leading women
cadres in Victoria also went over to
Hills group. Having been active in
women's and peace organisations, they
gave Hill access, to “front” and other
organisations.
It is difficult to establish accurately
the numerical strength of Hill’s CPA
(M/L) because of its ultra-secretiveness,
but the bulk of the party's membership
(approximately 300) is centred in Mel-
bourne and there is a fairly substantial
branch in Sydney (approximately 40) led
by wharfie Syd Clare. In Queensland
there are active branches in Brisbane,
Cairns and Townsville, probably under
the leadership of Mr John Nolan. A
branch is being built in South Australia
around Mr C. McCaffrey and Miss
Marjorie Johnson (sister of CPA State
Committee member Elliott Johnson).
There is a small branch in Tasmania and
other groups across the country.
Although the two Communist parties
are based on similar lines, there is one
fundamental difference. While the or-
ganisation of the pro-Moscow CPA is
based on a fusion of “legal” and “illegal”
methods with, as Hill sees it, a great deal
of laxity or “liberalism”, the CPA (M/L)
bases its organisation as near to “illegal”
principles as possible. There are no
formal party headquarters. Records are
kept to an absolute minimum and,
according to Hill, are well hidden.
Emphasising the conspiratorial nature of
his party, Hill says: “Liberalism goes very
deep, our members are exposed to the
scrutiny of the secret police all the time,
they are readily tabulated and overnight
could be collected. There is loose talk,
loose use of telephones, the mail. This
must be ended. We must learn, as Lenin
said, to elude the secret police—it is an
LAURIE AARONS
D. N. AIDIT


HOW
SAFE ARE
YOUR
RECORDS
?
What importance do you place on your business records? It’s
easy to say “Nothing will happen to them,” but it is not always
the other fellow that is devastated by fire ... it could be you!
Only specially built fire-resistant equipment, such as the range
built in Australia by Chubb, can make your records —your
business memory—completely safe from fire. The fact that a
building is fireproof does not alter the fact that the contents of
the building remain inflammable. Today, with the introduction
of the many synthetic materials into office furniture, a fire in a
modern building can create an even more intense heat than
previously experienced. And how do you assess, for an insurance
claim, the list of your outstanding accounts or a secret file that
may have taken years to compile. Make a point to contact Chubb
and to examine the comprehensive range of fire-resistant record-
protection cabinets. It pays to be careful when your business
is at stake.
CHUBB’S AUSTRALIAN CO. LTD.
art —a skill long neglected by the re-
visionists Aarons, Sharkey and Dixon.”
Hill sneers at the new expensive head-
quarters and printery of the old CPA
and its army of “well-paid, bureaucratic
functionaries who know nothing of real
people and their problems”. He has run
a detailed campaign of ridicule of his
main CPA enemies. Of Laurie Aarons
he declared: “In 1956 he (Aarons) said
he could not face the struggle and had
to be dragged back to his work after
weeks of brooding.” E. Thornton “went
all round Australia reviling Khrushchev
then jumped about at command”; W. J.
Brown is a hypocrite posing as a great
humanist; J. Sendy “was a policeman in
the RAAF and has never broken his
ideology nor police contacts”; Ralph
Gibson “as a matter of cold fact has lived
all his adult life on unearned income.
He understands nothing of the working
class”.
Although Hill sees little or no use in
standing parliamentary candidates, he
wants to identify his CPA (M/L) policies
with those of the trade unions and Labor
movement. He hopes to build and use
a united front between his party, the old
CPA and the ALP, while at the same
time he works to isolate and expose as
worthless those of the CPA and ALP
who wilj not co-operate with him.
So far Hill’s use of these policies
has paid dividends. Two Hillites ran
for office in the Victorian Waterside
branch elections. Both won. In the
Builders’ Laborers’ and Painters’ Unions
Hill's men retained all the positions they
contested. Hill’s man, C. O’Shea, ran one
of the most open unity tickets ever in
the recent Tramways Union elections,
and all candidates on the ticket swept in.
Feeling secure in Victoria, Hill’s party
is now preparing to strengthen its base
in NSW before moving on to Queensland.
Already NSW leader Svd Clare is pre-
paring a full-scale effort for the next
wharfies elections.
A recent issue of “Vanguard” casti-
gates Seamen’s Union Federal secretary
E. V. Elliott for surrendering control of
the Seamen's Union pick-up to the
Federal Government. This is interpreted
as part of a campaign to build and
strengthen the group of Sydney-based
Hill adherents In the Seamen’s Union.
TED HILL
MAO TSE-TUNG
At a recent meeting of the Australia-
China Friendship Society in Sydney,
members of the new party gave the up
till then victorious group from the CPA
a severe drubbing.
In the international field, Hill has been
most successful. He is undoubtedly a
leading figure in the Chinese-led bloc and
his CPA (M/L) is recognised as the real
Australian Communist party by China,
Albania, North Korea and North Viet-
nam and by the Communist parties of
Japan, Thailand, Burma, Indonesia,
Malaya. Aidit of Indonesia treats CPA
officials such as Laurie Aarons, R. Dixon,
Rex Mortimer and L. L. Sharkey with
ill-concealed contempt; he accepts Hill
as an equal. In December last year Hill
and Aidit signed a joint statement which
was worked out with the Chinese am-
bassador, Yao Chung Ming.
Instead of “withering away”, Hill is
growing stronger, patiently waiting for
the diverse elements, including the
strongly emerging “Italian-liners” within
the CPA, to clash head-on, shaking more
disillusioned members into his party.
FRED WELLS


Incorporated under the Companies Act of
N.S.W. on March 8, 1950
DEBENTURE STOCK
IOI
©
PER ANNUM 6, s4*o YEARS
CURRENCIES AND
INTEREST RATES
Applications can only be accepted on the
form attached to, and referred to in the
prospectus.
HOW TO INVEST
Application forms and prospectus
may be obtained from:
• Any Branch of the BANK OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
• Any Member of the Stock
Exchange.
• THE COMPANY’S OFFICES: Cam-
bridge House, 249 George Street,
Sydney. 'Phone 27-8621.
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Canberra, Newcastle.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, a copy
of your Prospectus.
NAME
ADDRESS
__.43o/SC
AROUND MELBOURNE
There’s Money in Ned Kelly
It's up to ANTA
Tt all started with a letter to “The Age”.
A. Brown (Heathmont) wrote:
“Sir Of all the exhibits in the Institute
of Applied Science, Melbourne, probably
the most popular over the years, and the
one possessing the most historical interest
for the ordinary visitor, was Ned Kelly’s
home-made suit of armor. I was sur-
prised when visiting the Institute recently
to find this and other relics associated
with the Kelly gang were no longer on
public display. The assistant on duty ex-
plained that the exhibit tended to give
an undue, and no doubt socially undesir-
able, emphasis to an outlaw who was,
according to the typewritten screed pro-
duced for the occasion, no more than a
convicted horse thief and murderer.
This came as a grave surprise. The
Institute always has been our very best
repository for the hideous and
macabre. Up there they have on
display a superb collection of
Colts, derringers, duelling pis-
tols, machine-guns, cannon,
bayonets, daggers, halberds,
pikes, man-traps, flails and a
truly magnificently horrible spiked mace.
However, the assistant director of the
Institute, Mr F. J. Kendall, said: “Why
should we revere a convicted murderer?
. . . You can talk until you’re blue in
the face but you’ll never convince me
Ned Kelly wasn’t a drunken thug, a man
we’d be better off forgetting.”
So the Kelly relics are to be relegated
to the basement and replaced by a sen-
sible display of calculating devices.
Though ill-equipped to make a deci-
sion on this fine historical point, I am
terribly concerned that Kelly might be
lost to the tourist trade and it is up to
the Australian National Travel Associa-
tion to move in here immediately. Kelly,
is the keystone of our culture. Cast your
mind back to that sculpture by Arthur
Boyd which depicted a Ned Kelly helmet
sitting on the back,of a judge. The Sidney
Nolan Ned Kelly series, valued at
£75,000, has been touring the world and
is now on display in New York. In Lon-
don the critics were beautifully lyric. Eric
Newton in “The Guardian” said: “He
(Ned Kelly) is as central as Odysseus
who hoves, half god-like, half rebel,
through his encounters with Polyphemus
and Circe and Nausicca and his domes-
tic troubles.”
In the past year we have had an
ABV-2 Kelly play, a Kelly musical, a
Kelly film and another was said to be
on the way with Albert Finney. One
of our nicest restaurants even has a
Ned Kelly room, where one can eat
steak and look at the mock-up armor
and WANTED posters.
Now this page wants to make a
momentous suggestion. The biggest
dollar-earner in the world today is
tourism. Apart from Chloe there is
nothing to look at in Melbourne. The
British Government recognised some
hundreds of years ago that there’s
nothing tourists adore more than
sadism and the macabre. The high-
light of a trip to the Tower is to see
the exact spot where Anne Boleyn lost
her head, and where Richard 111 car-
ried out his dastardly deeds.
Regrettably our officials still have a
guilt complex about Kelly and they are
trying to hide our best horrors. Look
here, we still have the old Melbourne
Gaol where Ned Kelly was hung.
Incredibly the Government last
year announced plans for pulling
this down.
Now if the tourist were taken
on a guided tour to its West
End, he could be taken up a
narrow steel stairway to two
cells set a trifle apart. He could be led
into the cell on the right where Ned
Kelly himself spent his last moments.
He could be taken out of cell D, and
walked 13 paces to the wooden platform
and gallows where Ned stood and the
guide could tell him to chant Kelly’s
last words “Such is life” or “Ah well,
I suppose it has come to this”, accord-
ing to whichever Kelly historical school
he graduated from.
The Melbourne Gaol could become a
grand Kelly Folk Museum with every-
thing pertaining to Kelly on display.
We could have shops selling souvenirs,
brass Kelly masks, Kelly pistols, to say
nothing of a complete series of the
Sidney Nolan prints. The City Court
Hotel over the way would change its
name to the Edward Kelly Hotel and
be done out entirely in the 1880 style.
This would be a marvellous dollar
spinner.
I tell you as a tourist attraction Ned
Kelly is a proved money-maker. There
are said to be three sets of armor in
existence. Sir Rupert Clarke, Bart., has
a set at Bolinda Vale, the aristocratic
family estate at Clarkefield. Every so
often he opens the old homestead for
charity and the star attraction is the
Kelly armor. You can bet your leg
irons he doesn’t hide it in the basement.
BATMAN


mm
IK®
m
■'
. ' - fe s ?&' '< ' _
>r•i • • r
B&®
:• -• *
• ■. : UK K < Kip? U * X K%K®X
: ;
K
• . •
.'•;• •.•■ - ’ vv->V;< ‘ . ■-- •■■«.•.. : •■•.■.. ■:• ■ , 1 7 -/-" . ' : .'- -V, *. . '
>
Ji-K --K- v 1 *< .
HMH
tt : '
• ’" ,K: •' ••.'• • ’ •
• '
•* '•
. •■
, - ‘ * r i ' ■
' i %?
. -- - . ■ ® "
. • ’ '
v •>/:•• v : &■'■ & K- K®'. ®
;
;: -®
...
/ K '£V - :
ir
■ "'® ;■ -‘® V .;«■ v®ix-
/IK®
i-li
k.K t f
i® -
"KK P,.-.
?fevi
Your
trump
export
card
For profit - winning deliveries to your overseas markets -
this is the card to play!
Qantas gives you more overseas flights than any other airline offering with its
associates over 125 scheduled air cargo services every week into and out of Australia.
This is the kind of frequency that puts profits into production—gives you the vital
export edge in getting your goods quickly, efficiently and competitively to any of the
world’s major markets. More capacity, too! Qantas V-Jets (fastest aircraft in round-
the-world service) carry over 7 tons of cargo. Expert, efficient ground services at the
Qantas Sydney air cargo terminal handle up to 100 tons of air freight daily in every
category—animal, vegetable or mineral. Are you holding today’s trump export card?
Call your air cargo agent or Qantas for full information—today!
QaMas, with its associates, offers you over
125 flights weekly into and out of Australia.
QAHTAS AIK CAKHO
44 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in association with Air India, 8.0.A.C., S.A.A. and TEAL.
QANTAS AIR C4RSO: Qantas House, 70 Hunter Street, Sydney, 'phone 2-0369. Melbourne, ‘phone 62-5501;
Brisbane, 'phone 31-2141; Adelaide, 'phone LA 0331; Perth, ‘phone 23-1564/5/6.
A 23.107. 114


The Nun’s Story
Changing habits in a changing world
By PATRICIA ROLFE
course, the young priest said
without undue condescension,
“they do all the hard yakka.”
He then flung his golf clubs into the
back of his car and set off for his
twice-weekly game. Because of the ease
with which he gets regular practice he
shoots in the low eighties.
“They are the most reactionary ele-
ment in the Church,” a young member
of the newly fashionable laity said.
“They are completely ignorant of theo-
logy. They are opposed to any change.
They have no effect on the life of the
Church.”
“They are the hands and feet,” said
another priest, making it clear that the
head and heart were elsewhere.
It seems obvious, then, that whatever
the Roman Catholic Church offers
women in religion in 1965 there are still
ample opportunities for the exercise of
Christian humility, patience, forbear-
ance and charity.
The Church may soon offer its
1,200,000-odd nuns a different way of
life. The last session of the Ecumenical
Council discussed the possibilities of re-
form for nuns, as well as for brothers
and order-priests. The draft text was
criticised by Cardinal Leo Suenens, of
Belgium, whose “The Nun in the World”
is a sort of handbook for reform, most of
which sounds quite mild to the outsider.
Cardinal Suenens spoke of “infanti-
lism” among nuns who appeared to him
to be like “little children who could not
go out without being held by the hand”.
This description so little tallies with the
most casual impression, of, say, the
Mother Rectress of any large Australian
Catholic hospital, that it may be that
Australian nuns are more “progressive”
than Europe’s, even though Europe has
come to be regarded as the Church’s
advance guard.
Some Australian nuns at least seem to
think this may be so. One said, “We’re
already doing most of what Cardinal
Suenens advocates. We’re far ahead of
Europe.”
Any reforms which come about in the
20th century will probably be only minor
compared with the changes, spread over
centuries and urged along by people
like St Vincent de Paul, St Francis de
Sales and St Angela Merici, which
brought women out of their cloisters to
begin charitable work in the world.
These changes were carried a step fur-
ther in Australia in the last century
when nuns, mainly the Sisters of St
Joseph, began teaching in outback
settlements, often living in cottages
alongside other small homes. For nuns
to live in small groups in this way would
even today seem strange to nuns used
to the formality of life in large Euro-
pean houses with perhaps 200 or 300
women under one roof and where a
simple thing like good-night may mean
each of these standing in line to kiss the
cheek of the Mother Superior, en-
throned.
There are, according to the latest
Catholic Directory, 13,470 nuns in Aus-
tralia, compared with 2258 diocesan
priests, 1262 priests in religious orders
and 2087 religious brothers. There may
not be any complicated psychological
reason for there being two women to
every man in religion, although Cardinal
Suenens speaks of the “docility” of
women (which may be the Church’s
ideal rather than the reality). Certainly,
women seem to settle more easily to
community life. Convents are more
graceful and pleasant places than
monasteries and presbyteries. A priest’s
parlor is about the strongest argument
there is against celibacy of the clergy.
Nuns certainly put up with more
minor restrictions, such as on smoking
and drinking. There may be less
“wastage” among nuns than among male
religious, but this is only supposition,
One priest's guess is that in the early
years something like 30 per cent of
candidates leave the teaching orders of
brothers but among nuns it may be only
about 10 per cent.
There are not only more nuns, there
are many more orders of nuns than of
priests or brothers in religion. Women’s
orders proliferate and bifurcate in a
bewildering way. In Australia there are
now more than 70 orders, some of
which have more than one branch. Most
orders are founded because someone
sees a particular work to be done at a
particular time. However, it does seem
that some are founded because someone
wants to do things in her own particular
way.
On a world-wide basis there is less
shrinkage of vocations for the enclosed
and missionary orders than for teaching
or nursing nuns. Many convents in
Australia don t have as many nuns as
they feel they could use, but with the


education programme the (Catholic
Church has given itself it hardly seems
likely that they would. Much greater
use is now made of lay people, as
teachers and for domestic work. Still,
most convents are going concerns with
ambitious programmes for expansion
and in a labor-hungry country they seem
to be suffering no more than other sec-
tions of the community. The candidates
they do get are generally better educa-
ted, better prepared and surer of their
vocation.
Although nuns in Australia engage in
a great variety of work the two main
occupations are, of course, teaching and
nursing. Some orders specialise to some
extent. Dominicans do a great deal of
work among blind and deaf children.
The Missionary Sisters of Mary look
after lepers both in Australia and the
Pacific. In purely practical terms, and
leaving aside vexed questions of State
Aid for Church Schools and view on
inadequacies in Catholic education,
nuns in Australia certainly earn more
than their keep.
However, a nun’s life is explicable
only in terms of her vocation, which she
believes is to serve God through human-
ity. It is simply a specific extension of
the devoted work many men and women
do for their fellow-men, an extension
which makes life simple for nuns in
some respects and very complex in
others.
Although nuns are under more small
restrictions than brothers or order-
priests, many of these prohibitions are
customs only and have nothing to do
with the order’s Rule, or essential way of
life. When a new order is established,
with the approval of the Congregation
of Religious Communities, a branch of
the Curia, a Rule is submitted for
approval too.
Nuns, of course, drive cars, are gener-
ally happy to have their photographs
taken and have some idea of the value
of publicity. Most convents have tele-
vision sets, but programmes may be re-
stricted to anything vaguely educational
or to when the Mother Superior takes it
into her head to switch it on. Some
nuns read enough papers and magazines
and take enough interest in the outside
world to render to Caesar an intelligent
vote, but, undoubtedly, many do not.
Not exactly bikinis
Touring recreation periods, which are
considered essential even for the
most .strictly enclosed orders, nuns play
tennis, basketball or swim. Some con-
vents have private swimming-pools. When
staying at holiday-cottages nuns use pub-
lic beaches although they generally
choose a time or place with not many
people around. They wear ordinary
costume, “but not exactly bikinis”, one
said. One young nun recently writing
home to her parents for a costume said,
“For Heaven’s sake don't send me a
black one. All the old nuns wear black
costumes.”
As they wear ordinary costumes on
the beach, it is doubtful if these days any
of them wear chemises in the bath, a
minor matter to which Bertrand Russell
gave a great deal of attention.
On the other hand, most nuns will not
eat in public or even in the presence of
other people in a private home, although
this is breaking down. These days some
will admit they have mouths like
everyone else. Nuns have to travel
more on the business of their convent or
school and, when there is no convent to
offer hospitality, they will stay at a
motel or hotel. But the Rule of some
orders, and not enclosed ones, does not
permit nuns to visit private houses, even
in the extremity of the death of a parent.
Cardinal Suenens points out that the
condition under which trips out of the
convent are undertaken is often that the
business of the convent requires it. His
idea is that the business of the convent
should include a lot more work among
adults.
Most nuns still do not go out unac-
companied although those on social
work, such as the Daughters of Charity,
cannot spare . two people to each job.
Young nuns at universities obviously
cannot have another nun sitting through
lectures with them. These days nuns
will go out after dark to attend meet-
ings or lectures.
Any great changes in the enclosed
orders are not likely. The' enclosed orders
seem literally “out of this world”. The
contemplative life attracts only a small
minority (and in Australia a smaller min-
ority may have the necessary tempera-
ment than in some other countries) but
the Carmelite House in Sydney is now,
with 21 nuns, full and another is being
opened in Lismore.
Australia has principally Carmelites,
Benedictines and Poor Clares. The
Rules of these houses seem rather point-
less and complex to outsiders, but they
become second nature to the nuns. The
Poor Clares go barefoot winter and
summer, rise at midnight to chant the
Divine Office and have the “privilege of
seraphic poverty”, which means they
own absolutely nothing. The Carmelites
never eat meat, have only one full meal
a day and sleep on boards covered with
a straw mattress. They are hermits
living in community and rarely leave
their cells except to go to chapel. All
the nuns will go to their cells if doctors,
dentists or tradesmen come to the con-
vent.
They will go to hospital if ordered but
most never leave their convents from
the day they enter. But no order is so
strict that there are no hours of recrea-
tion, during which, one nun said, “We
talk and laugh as if we hadn’t met for
months”.
Although the established orders in
Australia may have brought themselves
up-to-date more rapidly than European
nuns, the secular institutes, which are
a sort of bridge between religious and
laity, have gone along much more
slowly here. The secular institutes re-
ceived their constitution from Pope
Pius XII in 1947 but many had been
established long before that. In Aus-
tralia there is the Ver Sacrum Mariae
in Melbourne, whose members wear
ordinary dress and whose head is a lay-
woman, and in Sydney the Schoenstatt
Sisters of Mary, whose members wear a
habit when living in community but
ordinary dress when living away from
home.
Looking ridiculous
HThe Schoenstatt Sisters take no vows
■*" but consider themselves bound in
the same way as other nuns. The secular
institutes may be a bridge between nuns
and the laity, but they do not repre-
sent a weakening of convent life. Mem-
bers who live in the world and take
ordinary jobs have to carry out the
order’s Rules without any prompting
from a superior.
But the reform which excites most in-
terest is in nuns’ dress, so that you begin
to feel that if nuns’ hemlines were lifted
a foot all that is obsolete and meaning-
less in convent life would be swept away.
Doubtless some nuns see something in-
congruous in more than 2000 men in
vivid silks and lace flounces and wear-
ing funny hats sitting solemnly in Rome
and talking about reforming nuns’
habits, one of them declaring that nuns’
out-of-date dress makes the Church look
ridiculous.
The question of reformed dress is
not exactly new. In 1953 Pope Pius XII
(all reform did not begin with Pope
John) called an international conference
of nuns to discuss this and other ques-
tions. At first little appeared to come
of it but there have been some changes.
The Daughters of Charity last year
lost their distinctive cornets. The Sisters
of Mercy simplified their habit a few
months ago. Most orders have modified
their dress in small ways. There is not
a great deal of starch these days. Nuns
like 30-denier black nylon stockings.
Apparently underclothes have under-
gone major transformation. Most orders
are coming to accept a fairly authorita-
tive finding that simpler dress results
in better health.
Many orders have more drastically
changed their postulants’ habits. Some
of these, with light-colored stockings
and a simple cap, look like the average


■
; . XX
,
,#s>
■ . 5
m
You've got the edge... with EDGEWORTH's
Do men who have the edge, born winners, just naturally
choose Edgeworth's prestige tobacco Blend Eleven? Or does
the cool, relaxed enjoyment of Blend Eleven help give them
winning poise and authority? It's a good question. Best
answer, try Edgeworth's Blend Eleven from your usual
tobacconist! 2 ozs. 6/10 throughout Australia.
m
&
BLEND ELEVEN —the new
prestige American tobacco
with an unusual/delightful
taste and aroma! Boon
companion to Edgeworth
Sliced or Ready Rubbed
Pipe Tobacco.
m
m
nil:
Larus & Brother Co. Inc., Richmond, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.
convent schoolgirl. “We favor this be-
cause the transformation of daughter
into nun seems less drastic to parents
this way,” one nun said, “but the postu-
lants themselves can’t wait to get into a
sister’s habit.”
Sometimes it seems that the more
modern-minded nuns are just as opposed
to change in dress as others. They love
their habit. Through the testing years
in the novitiate the symbol of full
acceptance as a nun is the habit.
There is no typical nun. Convents
looking for suitable candidates stress
such things as good health and average
intelligence. Mother Superiors are not
very impressed with ready-made mystics.
A vocation is taken to mean an aptitude
for life in a religious community. It
is not necessary for a visible shaft of
light from Heaven to shine about your
head before you will be accepted.
Mother’s vocation
AT ery few girls can be told to get thee
’ hence to a nunnery these days and
the nunnery certainly doesn’t want girls
recovering from unhappy love affairs or
who have been ordered there by arro-
gant parents. But there may still be
some who feel they are living out
“mother's vocation”, whose parents so
badly wanted a son or daughter in re-
ligion that pressures became unbearable.
Many orders will not take girls before
they have had a full year in the world
after leaving school. If there were no
other reasons for convents not wanting
unhappy candidates, there are economic
ones. Convents are, in a sense, businesses,
and businesses run on a pretty slender
margin. They cannot afford to feed and
clothe people who are never likely to
contribute much and they cannot afford
to give professional training, including
probably university courses, to girls who
have little intention of staying. The
dowry, once a universal, has now almost
disappeared, although some of the en-
closed orders, such as the Carmelites, ask
for one but do grant dispensations.
A nun is not a nun forever in the sense
that a priest is. There is no need finally
for her to leap over the wall if she wants
to leave. Members of congregations take
simple vows and members of orders
solemn ones. This is after a period as
postulant and novice. Most vows are
renewable at intervals. If a nun still
under simple vows marries, the marriage
is unlawful, or sinful, but valid, but the
marriage of a nun under solemn vows is
in the eyes of the Catholic Church in-
valid.
To the vows, universal for religious,
of poverty, chastity and obedience, some
orders add others, such as the vow of
stability which binds you to the house
of your profession for life. When this is


overnight we can
make your sales
territory ten times
bigger.. and Australia
ten times smaller!
/
presto!
Piper! Surefire way to get a sales programme off the ground.
More and more Australian companies are realising that a fleet
of vehicles is often an impractical way to cover a sales territory.
If you are considering the possibility of a company plane, why
not drop us a line and let us send you complete statistics on car
versus Piper. We can prove that Piper is the best way you can
give wings to your operations. More and more Australians are
proving it. More people fly Piper than any other plane in the world»
mm
Distributed by Commerce International Pty. Ltd.
Qld.: Archerfield. N.S.W.: Bankstown.
Victoria: Pipeair Pty. Ltd., Moorabbin.
Western Australia: Millard O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd., Perth.
P— Y64A
combined (although this is rare nowa-
days) with the election of a Mother
Superior for life a great deal of strain
can be placed on human relationships.
The vow of obedience is getting some
reconsideration by the Church authori-
ties, some of whom see it as leading to
this “infantilism” on the one hand and to
“paternalistic” mother superiors on the
other hand. The Ursulines, a long-estab-
lished world order, makes “freedom” in
the sense of self-reliance part of their
nuns’ attitude to work.
“We’re not a democracy,” one nun
said, but most nuns have some say in the
election of their Mother Superior or
Mother General, that is, their immediate
superior and the world, national or dio-
cesan head of the order. Systems of
voting are quite as complicated as in
democratic countries such as Australia
and the United States. Sometimes it
sounds as if the Mother General is elec-
ted by a chapter and then appoints mem-
bers of the chapter, but it’s not quite as
closed a shop as that. Most heads of
orders these days are elected only for
a set term, and most heads of houses are
moved to another convent after a certain
number of years.
Size and strength
Tn Australia nuns retain a voting privi-
-*■ lege which priests have lost. Austra-
lian bishops are now appointed. The last
Australian bishop elected by the diocesan
priests was Archbishop Justin Simonds in
1937. Some priests, too, look with awe
at the degree of independence of local
bishops maintained by the orders. The
degree of independence is apt to depend
on the size and strength of the order but
the whole question may be discussed at
the next session of the Ecumenical
Council.
There is no typical nun but there seems
considerable difference between older and
younger nuns. The differences may not
be much greater than those between the
generations in families, but the stresses
are different. Of course, many older nuns
can be models of modernity, while a
younger one may have been attracted to
a convent because it seemed an unchang-
ing, safe life. There are unimaginative
but not necessarily unsuccessful nuns
who see convents as safe jobs from which
you cannot be sacked once you’re on the
permanent staff and with no financial
responsibilities (no one who has taken a
vow of poverty owes a penny) in this life
and good superannuation in the next.
The gulf between older and younger
nuns was not narrowed by what was the
common practice of delegating the office
of Mistress of Novices to a nun, getting
on in years, who may have come to the
end of her usefulness as teacher or
administrator. In the Archdiocese of


Sydney now there are special training
courses for Mistresses of Novices.
The gap between the generations may
have been one of the problems which the
Church aggravated by establishing so
many small convents in Australia. In a
large house there is company to suit
everyone, but when there are four or
five women in one cottage the position
can be agonisingly different. In one small
Sydney convent, a young nun was criti-
cised by the others because during recrea-
tion she produced a photograph of her-
self wearing jodhpurs. Of the five other
nuns three had been professed for more
than 50 years, two of these having
entered in Ireland. The other two nuns
were approaching 60. As far as any of
them were concerned, side-saddle was
still in fashion. The young nun left the
convent and has since married. Her place
was taken by a nun of 20.
The multiplicity of small convents in
Australia may be partly responsible for
the charges that nuns have a poor know-
ledge of theology. If they have it may
be economic. Small convents cannot
easily afford an adequate library on any
subject at all. The idea of building
mother-houses, where adequate facilities
for study and recreation can exist, and
having the nuns drive each day to small
schools may have something to commend
it.
Pious Thoughts
T>ut although there may be some elderly
nuns whose reading is mostly
confined to Pious Thoughts, many of
the orders have comprehensive courses of
study these days. Some, such as the Ursu-
lines and Dominicans, regularly send
nuns to Rome for advanced study. And,
as some Catholics say, until a few years
ago what books were there on modern
theological thought?
For most nuns out of enclosure a basic
problem remains: how to be both a good
nun and a good teacher or nurse. It can
be only in exceptional circumstances that
a woman is equally gifted as both. And
many parents must feel an incongruity
in women who have left the world pre-
paring their daughters for the world.
Many of the orders bravely and with
some degree of success try to face up to
this. The Loreto nuns have held a
national seminar of ex-students at which
many aspects of life were discussed. They
have organised meetings between their
students and boys from brothers’ schools
at which dating, petting and such subjects
were discussed at length. “And I used to
think nuns were old-fashioned,” one boy
wrote back to a student afterwards.
But the fact remains that, apart from
tea with parents, many nuns still have
little contact with the adult world, cer-
tainly little which works to the benefit of
both. It has been suggested that mature
nuns could be more suitable for mar-
riage counselling than young priests, al-
though it doesn’t seem much of a choice.
One or two of the more modern orders
which have parish work as one of their
aims seem to make heavy weather in
Australia. Although every parish priest
knows that the priest who knows and is
known to most of his parishioners disap-
peared about the same time as the family
doctor, he still does not seem to welcome
encroachments. New orders have to have
the permission of the bishop to set up a
house in a diocese, and it appears that it
is often suggested they would be wel-
come, provided they opened a school.
No matter what role nuns are begin-
ning to play in the modern world, they
still, as their standing at the Ecumenical
Council shows, play little effective part
in the modern Church, although per-
haps at this moment a companion vol-
ume to “The Nun in the World”, “The
Nun in the Church”, is being written.
There seems little doubt reform will
come. Probably it will come slowly and
probably most nuns want it that way.
After all, Rome wasn't built in a day.
Mirror,
Mirror
On the Wall
By HUGH CURNOW
u~W am,” Marje Proops of the London
“Daily Mirror'’ said as she
packed her bags to sail from
Sydney to San Francisco, “the plainest
woman I know. And,’’ she added, “I
hate it.” She paused to light an English
Senior Service, place it in the cigarette-
holder that the “Mirror’s” estimated 16
million readers would instantly recognise,
and went on: “I look like either an un-
gainly, or gaunt, or amusing horse. I
know this and I have always known it. I
am the one that people say grows on you
after you’ve got to know her a bit.
But I am the one that has always
wanted to be—may I say it—absolutely
gorgeous. I don't want to grow on
people. I want to knock them out-
men, I mean. I don't remember who
once asked me that damn question
‘Would you rather be beautiful or in-
telligent?’ but I know I said ‘Beautiful!’
immediately. And I would still say so,
provided I could also work for the
‘Mirror’. I’d like to keep that much
intelligence.”
Exercising the intelligence she has at
the “Mirror” for the past 11 years has
made Rebecca Marjorie Proops that
paper's topnotch woman writer with
a daily readership in Britain recently
calculated by a “Mirror” survey as
10 million of its 16 million. “But more
than 10 million read our Andy Capp
comic-strip. And no wonder. He is
rude, arrogant, cagey, shrewd, rough,
tough, domestically domineering and
constantly idle. What more could any
true-blooded Briton hope for?”
How would she describe herself?
“How can I describe myself apart from
my awful face?” She stubbed out her
cigarette and thought for a while. “Pro-
fessionally I suppose I am the oldest
teenager in captivity. One day that
will have to end, I know. Then I
think 1 shall return to Sydney—no,
Melbourne, because it has fewer dis-
tractions —and write things to be in-
serted between hard covers, kept and
re-read, not wrapped around the fish
and chips and forgotten. Perhaps,”
she added, “you'd better describe me.”
Now one of Britain's highest-paid
woman journalists—if not the highest
paid—Mrs Proops is also one of the most
elegantly dressed and best mannered.
And she is devotedly possessive about
her work. “Do you know that if
someone were to cut four lines from
what I write without consulting me it is
as if they have removed the fingernails
from my child. What right have they
to interfere with a creative writer’s
opinionated copy? News reportage is
different, of course. It should be trim-
med. (Australian papers I’ve read do
go on so. And their ‘Women’s Sections’,
complete with so-called appropriate ads,
give me the horrors.) Fortunately I work
for a paper that believes in not changing
one word of its columnists’ copy. Readers
sense that just as they can sense when a
paper has that corny old thing called


fU
tmmm
The vines we tend at
Coonawarra Estate have
amongst their number a
proportion of the precious
Cabernet Sauvignon some
of which is vintaged
separately and bottled as;
“COONAWARRA
ESTATE ,
CABERNET”
The discriminating diner
would be well advised to
seek it out it is a rare
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CLARET
Sole and Exclusive Purveyorsi
S. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd. ci2N
Heart. If there is one reason why the
London ‘Daily Mirror’ outsells all other
papers in the English-speaking world it is
because it has Heart with a capital
aitch.”
Much of this corny old top-selling qua-
lity, Proops says, is the result of “the
magical combination of Cecil King and
Hugh Cudlipp.” King, the “Mirror's”
chairman, she describes as a “superb,
eccentric genius”; Cudlipp, the “Mir-
ror’s” editorial director, as an “unpre-
dictable, dependable genius”. Another
man in her professional life whom she
says she adores is her editor, Lee
Howard. “He is a good editor because
he is an approachable editor. His door
is always open to walk through and
brag, bitch or pick a barney. The
‘Mirror’ treats all its writers like that —
as people rather than producers. I
think I would walk through hot coals
for Cecil, Hugh or Lee. In fact, I
know I would. They’ve got Heart by
the ton.”
Born of a Jewish family in London,
educated for some time by Roman
Catholic nuns, married at 20 to an
engineer, mother of a 23-year-old son
just engaged to be married, foster-
mother to an illegitimate boy now ser-
ving a two-year gaol term, she says she
“longs to be wanted”. Enraptured by out-
back Australia, “in love with” Sydney
and Melbourne, she says she is con-
cerned about British migrants getting a
“too golden” picture of this country from
Australia House in London. “I intend to
get something done about that for those
poor blighters.”
Meanwhile Proops still prefers her
witty and frankly flattering self-portraits
that appear above her columns in the
“Mirror” to more revealing photographs
or caricatures. “I’m sure readers would
prefer that gay, attractive creature to
the real me,” she smiled, dashing one
off for me. The Mirror on the Fleet
Street wall, one felt, probably likes both.
The Trials of Lenny Bruce
From GEORGE McGANN in New York
That master of the spoken word of
four letters, Lenny Bruce, has
emerged from his latest legal en-
counter, which he lost, as something of
a hero. A trio of Manhattan judges has
just decided he had been guilty of
obscene performances in a Greenwich
Village coffee house, the Cafe Au Go
Go, and sentenced him to four months’
gaol. This decision, which may be
reversed on appeal to the State Supreme
Court, has outraged many people, in-
cluding Norman Mailer, Dorothy Kil-
gallen, Richard and Elizabeth Burton
and upwards of one hundred others who
signed a petition of protest which
likened the sallow-faced little comic to
Swift, Mark Twain and Rabelais, as
satirist and social commentator.
In the short space of three years (he
is still in his mid-thirties) Lenny Bruce
has compiled a gaudy record on three
continents. He has been arrested and
gone to trial in the US three times for
giving obscene performances and twice
for possessing narcotics; he was tossed
out of England tw'ice before he was able
to utter a word, obscene or not, in pub-
lic, and in Australia he was barred
from further performances after two
shows in Aaron's Hotel in Sydney and
was not permitted to appear on the ABC
programme, “People”.
It must be quickly stressed, however,
that Bruce has been acquitted on every
charge, except for his most recent con-
viction in New York. And there is
every reason to expect this conviction to
be reversed, in view of recent US
Supreme Court decisions in the field of
obscene literature and in the light of the
reversal of Bruce's obscenity conviction
last year in a Chicago court.
The lower court in Chicago had
found Bruce guilty of giving a
“thoroughly disgusting, revolting and
obscene performance” in a local night-
club. Then the Supreme Court of the
United States handed down a critically
important decision in the case of a
French film, “The Lovers”, and Henry
Miller's scatological novel, “Tropic of
Cancer”. The Supreme Court held that
“material, no matter how objectionable
the method of its presentation, was con-
stitutionally privileged unless it was
utterly without redeeming social import-
ance”. In other words, the court
seemed to say that obscenities had to be
weighed against affirmative values in a
book or film or play or whatever before
a judgment could be made on its overall
purport and result. Therefore the
Illinois Supreme Court, in its considera-
tion of Bruce's appeal from his Chicago
conviction, reversed the lower court on
the ground that his utterances touched
on “topics of social importance”.
This is precisely the point which
Bruce and his lawyer, Ephraim London,
attempted to make in their defence in
the New York trial. London, one of the
country’s outstanding authorities on legal
aspects of obscenity and other facets of
the First Amendment, called upon an
array of witnesses who testified to the
social significance of Bruce’s mono-
logues.
Jules Feiffer, cartoonist and social cri-
tic, told the court after listening to Bruce
perform, “I leave thinking I don’t hit
hard enough.” Music critic Nat Hentoff
contended: “Bruce makes people think
—he provokes his audience with absurd-
ity and gets them to react.” Episcopal
minister Sidney Lanier thought Bruce’s
comments on the contemporary scene
were “in some ways helpful, and even
healing”. Broadway columnist and


epic keeps
exporters afloat
»
Trading overseas on credit? Should your customers
founder, an epic policy will keep you afloat.
epic charts the way to smooth sailing with risk
assessments, credit intelligence and advice on
payment term patterns, epic insurance pays you
when your overseas customers can't. Ask for the
booklet which tells how epic makes exporting safe.
EXPORT PAYMENTS INSURANCE CORPORATION
Commonwealth Government Guaranteed
SYDNEY: 2 Castlereagh Street, 28 232 i
MELBOURNE: 224 Queen Street, 67 3914
ADELAIDE: 118 King William Street, 8 7327
PERTH: 212 Adelaide Terrace, 23 3488 Dept.of Trade, at Brisbane or Hobart.
television personality Dorothy Kilgallen
called Bruce “a brilliant, moral man with
valid, important comments whether or
not I agree with them”.
On the other hand, the prosecutor,
Richard Kuh, a typically eager-beaver
Assistant District Attorney, lined up a
group of witnesses who found nothing
significant, socially or otherwise, in
Bruce’s night-club act and who believed
that Bruce resorted to foul-mouthed
language purely for shock value. These
hostile witnesses included Marya Mannes
of “The Reporter” magazine, editor
John Fischer of “Harper’s” magazine,
Reverend Dan M. Potter of the Pro-
testant Council of New York and Broad-
way columnist Bob Sylvester.
The three trial judges—Bruce had
sought vainly for a jury trial—in City
Criminal Court depended on scratchy,
sometimes unintelligible, tapes made
during Bruce’s performance in the Cafe
Au Go Go for a sample of his work.
They refused to permit him to give a
performance, in toto or in part, in the
courtroom. Two of the judges, John
M. Murtagh and Kenneth M. Phipps,
found Bruce guilty as charged of an
“obscene, indecent, immoral and im-
pure” performance, which lacked “re-
deeming social importance”.
But the third judge, J. Randall Creel,
dissented on the ground that the statute
of the penal law under which Bruce was
charged was “probably unconstitutional”
in that it violated the free speech
amendment.
Following his conviction, Bruce said
bitterly: “I was busted not for my
obscenity but for my attitudes.” He
might have had something there. He
has spoken of “a trend of people
leaving the church and going back to
God”. In his act he portrays a bigoted
citizen of ancient Rome who contends
“there’s something dirty about the
Christians —would you want your sister
to marry one?” Again, he dismisses the
Loeb and Leopold murder case with the
remark, “Bobby Franks was a snotty
kid anyway.” “Time” magazine and
other Bruce critics appear to have been
more shocked by these irreverences than
by his use of the 4, 10 and 12 letter
words.
In the course of his frequent arrests
and trials, Bruce has become a self-made
lawyer and something of an authority
on obscenity statutes. He certainly
knew more about them than the detec-
tive who made the arrest in the Cafe
Au Go Go. As Bruce recalled the
occasion, he asked the detective,
“What’s the charge?” The detective re-
plied “Section 1040.” “But that’s pro-
stitution,” protested the little comic.
“Aw, Lenny,” said the detective, “don't
be technical—it’s one of them numbers.”
Today Bruce is a tragic figure. His
300,000 dollar a year performing
career has come to a full stop. He lives
alone in a blowsy Greenwich Village
hotel room, in dungarees and old sweat-
er and bare-footed, in a shambles com-
piled of legal briefs, coils of recording
tapes of his performances and unfinished
manuscripts. While awaiting the result
of his appeal to the New York Supreme
Court, Bruce is working on several pro-
jects at once, including legal documents
pertaining to his case. He fired his
attorney following his New York con-
viction, which his admirers admit was
not one of his more intelligent moves,
and will act as his own lawyer hence-
forth—he apparently foresees no end of
litigation ahead.
“I couldn't communicate with him,”
Bruce says in explanation of his dis-
missal of Ephraim London. Bruce has
many admirers but few friends. “He
inhabits that ancient twilight zone be-
tween genius and madness from which
only mediocrity is barred,” wrote
columnist James Wechsler following
Bruce's sentencing to a four-months’
gaol term. “Perhaps he has helped to
invite self-destruction; no one would
accuse him of being an adjusted person-
ality. But will New York be a better
place if this wild, mild, tortured brilli-
ance, who performed before sophistica-
ted adults not small children, is
smothered in the workhouse?”


Less Gold in English Teeth
" A cross between Harry Lime and Doctor Kildare ”
From R. L. SCHOLFIELD in London
Fortune is running out for the
heroes of the most notable Aus-
tralian success stories since the
Gold Rush —the Australian dentists
whose comings and goings over the past
16 years have given Britain a colony
that has become a legend against the
prosaic background of national health.
The 500-odd Australians who make
up this group in Britain’s 10,000 den-
tists are dynamic professionally and
socially. They drive sports cars when
they are young, become at home with
pheasant when they settle down. The
“Syd.” and “Melb.” on their nameplates
draw patients like flypaper. But the
earnings that are the essence of their
fame are waning. The welfare-state
pudding to which they have given spice
for a decade and a half is slowly
smothering them out. The airholes that
riddled the concoction when it began in
1948, inadvertently allowing a flavoring
of zeal and dash, are gradually giving
way to pure dough.
When the pudding first came into be-
ing it was only half-baked. Then in
scarcely more than experimental form,
it contained loopholes to be exploited
by the diligent and devious alike, and
many were the gin and tonics paid for
by the proceeds of claims on work that
was either not done or need not have
been done. For some dentists, it was
a matter of not drilling one hole where
two or more would do.
But the scheme’s greatest weakness,
so far as the administrators were con-
cerned, was its success. Millions of
Britons who had never been near a
dentist came pouring in with mouthfuls
of retrospective toil. The dental force
was overwhelmed, and the British gained
another excuse for queuing.
It was into this situation that Austra-
lian dentists began to be drawn. A den-
tist graduating from university in Aus-
tralia had to scrape for years before
building up a profitable practice or lay
out thousands to buy a ready-made one.
Not so in Britain, where he could step
off the boat into a three-figure-a-week
income with no need for capital outlay
and with memories of yesterday's stu-
dent struggles still fresh in mind.
Most of the Australian dentists in Bri-
tain come from New South Wales,
where students have been warned on
enrolment that there will not be room
for them all in metropolitan practices on
graduation and that some will have to
consider Britain or the bush. For some
years the majority of dentists gradua-
ting in Sydney were coming to Britain.
Of the 537 Australian dentists registered
in Britain during the year ended Janu-
ary 1, 1964—the latest for which figures
have been issued —328 were from Syd-
ney, compared with 105 from Queens-
land, 71 from Melbourne, 16 from Ade-
laide, 17 from Western Australia —and,
not to draw the family bonds too tightly,
97 from New Zealand.
Australian dentists in Britain fall
loosely into two groups. The first com-
prises the single young men who, exhi-
larated by the easy post-graduate stride
from rags to riches, tend to move in
packs, shifting their attentions restlessly
from one Australian haunt to another
and sometimes sharing big houses which
they enliven with noisy parties. They
are not furtive about spending their
fees. “They're loaded,” said a wide-
eyed Melbourne girl who had had only
eight weeks to adjust to the phenome-
non, and it was obvious from her further
observations that she thought of them as
being a sort of cross between Dr Kildare
and Harry Lime.
In the other category are the older
ones who have defied the two-years
average to stay on, have families, settle
into suburbia, tending, because the gap
between their noses and the grindstone
narrows as they try to fight the decline
of their powers and preserve their inti-
macy with champagne and opera, to
exclude other dentists from their social
life. They are immersed in their own
practices and have ceased to be con-
scious of the colony to whose character
they nevertheless still contribute.
There are some Australian dentists in
Britain who are content to settle in
among the country’s majority on a
salary, before tax, of £l5OO to £lBOO
a year, but they are hard to find. The
average net taxable salary of all dentists
working under the National Health
Scheme in Britain is £2450 a year, the
Australian average probably nearer
£3500, with the top earners pulling in
some £5OOO to £BOOO. This, even
though the figures are in sterling, may
not seem fabulous to Australian eyes,
but it is enough, in a country where the
average weekly wage is so meagre, to
put British dentists as a whole, let alone
the Australian segment, among the top
three per cent of income earners.
At the same time, the Australian
dentist’s affinity for lucre has sometimes
been exaggerated. Scandal waxed some
time ago on a newspaper disclosure that
two Australian dentist brothers in a
small Midlands town had made £58,000
out of the National Health Scheme in
one year. When perspective was satis-
fied, it turned out that the brothers had
worked like beavers to pioneer a con-
tinuous 24-hour dental service which,
after meeting impressive overheads and
paying three assistants at almost the same
rate as themselves, gave the principals
quite an unnewsworthy reward.
The color, however, persists, and
Englishmen who kiss their wives good-
bye on the front step at the same time
each morning perhaps take more notice
than they should of stories about the
Australian dentist who also operates as
a doctor, the one who gave up his prac-
tice to become a prosperous building
contractor in the North of England, and
the one who, advertising for an assistant
for his practice in the Shetlands. put all
the emphasis on the delights of fishing
and golf that awaited the successful
applicant.
Behind the prosperity of the Austra-


Jt
f
LOMBARD
o
I
2
P.A. FOR
6 YEARS
CURRENCY
6 YEARS
5 YEARS
4 YEARS
3 YEARS
2 years
1 YEAR
DEBENTURE
STOCK
71% P.A.
7% P.A.
61% P.A.
61% P.A.
6% P.A.
51% P.A.
UNSECURED
NOTES
71% P.A.
7*% P.A.
7% P.A.
6!% pa
61% P.A.
6% P.A.
SHORTER TERM RATES
Unsecured Deposit Notes at 1,3, 6, 9 and 12
months' notice also are available.
Applications can only be accepted on the
form attached to, and referred to in, the
Prospectus which is available from:
• ANY MEMBER OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
• ANY LOMBARD OFFICE
LOMBARD AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN N.S.W.)
CAPITAL, £3,400,000
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • LIVERPOOL • WOLLONGONG
MELBOURNE » BRISBANE • TOWNSVILLE * ADELAIDE
PERTH • HOBART
ASK YOUR STOCKBROKER FOR DETAILS OR
PHONE, CALL OR MAIL COUPON FOR PROSPECTUS
lian dentists is their youthfulness, and
dentistry is perhaps unique as a profes-
sion in that its members start off at their
peak and thereafter, unless resourceful
enough to forgo the immediate rewards
of everyday surgery to cultivate some
specialised academic competence, decline
in earning power. A man who can
skip through 40 patients a day when he
is 25 years old may be laboring to
handle 30 when he is 50, and the
middle-aged dentist will not have the
advantage, unless he has been sedulous
with his homework, of modern training.
Another factor in their success is that
the Australians come from a community
where the professions occupy different
positions on the social ladder than in
Britain, where the Church and the Army
still carry more prestige than dentistry
and medicine. It is thus probable that
Australian dentistry attracts a relatively
higher standard of student to start with.
Too fast to be good?
HTheir transience in Britain gives Aus-
-*• tralians not only a social dispensa-
tion but the willingness to work espe-
cially hard for a period they know to be
temporary. Readiness to put in long
hours at the surgery contributes much
to their supremacy. It used to be mur-
mured among British dentists and
patients that Australians worked too
fast for their standards to be good.
But no more. Quality has come to be
recognised along with speed as a pro-
duct of the youthfulness that enables
Australians to be the athletes of the
profession.
They are helped, too, by their mobil-
ity. Being, as it were, rootless, the
Australian is governed by none of the
considerations of family, upbringing and
background that may help decide where
the dentist born and bred here puts
his practice, and is thus free to settle
where the pickings are richest. “Most of
them,” said a spokesman of the British
Dental Association wryly, “are in the
affluent areas of London and the
south-east. I don't think you would
have much luck trying to find Austra-
lian dentists in Yorkshire.”
The only criticism British dentists as
a group hold against the interlopers is
that they make no bones about being in
the country purely to amass British
capital to take back and buy an Austra-
lian practice. A common pattern is for
young men straight out of dental school
to arrive in England, join one of the
group practices run by three or four of
his countrymen, save £2OOO in two
years, plus his equity in the practice,
and retire with the loot, leaving another
gap in a health scheme that has only
half as many dentists as it needs. The
British dentists have no quarrel with the
standard of work supplied in exchange


These boards
spell storage economy
HIRE CHEP pallets and fork lifts to
store, stack and move raw materials,
containers and finished products
quickly, safely, easily and economi-
cally.
CHEP PALLET hire will solve your
problem, the problem of storage and
movement of goods, and won’t cost
you a penny of capital. If your busi-
ness involves delivery or receipt of
goods then CHEP'S pallet transfer
system will save you time and money.
SAVE SPACE by storing UP —watch
your storage costs drop.
CHECK WITH CHEP. Call the
nation’s most experienced advisers in
materials handling to review your
problems—without cost or obligation.
CHEP PTY. LTD.
Crescent Street, Glebe, N.S.W. 68 4211
CHEP PTY. LTD.
Sandgate Road, Albion, Brisbane, Qld. 6 2181
L. D. NICHOLLS LIMITED
205 Hanson Road, Woodville North, Adelaide. 45 444
for these takings, but they see as un-
professional a quick milking of a market
into which well-trained but inexperienced
fledglings have bounced.
Each year the British Government
allots a sum to pay the dentists with,
and the work they do is divided into it
to produce a fixed fee for each type of
treatment. The arithmetic is done by
a body called the Dental Rate Study
Group. With each adjustment, the fees
have shrunk, and the dentists have had
to work harder to make as much as
before. In many cases the limit of
capacity has been reached, especially
with Australians already working harder
than usual and with less margin in which
to extend themselves. The average den-
tist in Britain last year worked the
equivalent of 421 hours a week for 52
weeks of the year.
In 1961, after the Pilkington Commit-
tee had issued a report on the dentists’
situation, the British Government cut
dental payments by 10 per cent. In
1948, when it was introduced, the fee
for single fillings was £1 each, with a
maximum of 30s. a tooth; in 1954, 155.,
with a maximum of 225. 6d.; in 1962,
12s. 6d., with a maximum of 18s. for
two or more fillings a tooth.
Bread and Batter
'VTor is working in Britain so valuable as
it used to be in terms of experience.
With the shrinking of fees, the dentist
has had to concentrate more on the
bread-and-butter jobs that he depends
on for the bulk of his earnings, avoid-
ing the more sophisticated treatments
under National Health by either not
performing them or doing so on a pri-
vate basis as a direct transaction between
the patient and himself.
Natural fulfilment of the health
scheme’s aims has also depressed the
earning potential of the profession.
Millions of mouths that contained a
backlog of work when the scheme began
have been put into good order and there
is just not so much profit in them today.
As said one Australian who has been
here nine years: ‘There are vast middle-
class areas where the bottom has fallen
out of the game. The only dentists
still doing well are those in poor areas
like dockland, where people's mouths
are in bad shape through neglect, or
rich districts where the patients are will-
ing to be treated privately.”
The Australian reaction to it all is
well . under way. Between 1948 and
1961, new registrations of Common-
wealth dentists, comprising mostly Aus-
tralians, rose steadily each year. Since
then they have declined, and 1963 be-
came the first year since the inception
of National Health to show a net loss
instead of a gain on the 12 months’
traffic in Australian dentists.
The party is over and the guests are
going home.


CLAUDE
NEON
(Established 1930)
Association of Great Names Series
wmm
m
A
....
NEON SPECTACULARS IN COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Tor the look of lender ship’
SIGNS AND LIGHTING
ON THE
LEASE-MAINTENANCE PLAN
Details without cost or obligation
CLAUDE NEON LTD.
Sydney: 67-0488
Melbourne: 37-2257
Brisbane: 68-2481
Adelaide: 53-2291
Perth: 86-2461
Hobart: 3-3994
ALSO AT LAUNCESTON, NEWCASTLE, TOWNSVILLE AND WAGGA
SALES & SERVICE THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
SCIENCE
The Stuff That Sleep Is Made Of
Dream starvation
By JOHN DAVY
Tn a number of laboratories round the
world, volunteers are now spend-
ing their nights in quiet cubicles, with
wires attached to their heads. The wires
lead to gently humming amplifiers and
delicate recording machines.
One of the first, and most unexpected,
results of this work is that we can suffer
not only from sleep starvation but,
apparently, from dream starvation.
The experiments have disclosed that
during a normal eight-hour sleep there
are four to five periods when electrical
brainwaves picked up by the wires show
a change. At the same time, the eye-
balls start to move.
If people are awakened during these
periods, they recount vivid dreams—but
if they are awakened during deep sleep
periods they have nothing to report.
Thus it has been concluded that the
brainwave changes and eyeball move-
ments reveal a dream in progress.
Psychiatrists at the University of
California reported some of their latest
experiments in “Nature”. For six suc-
cessive nights two volunteers were
awakened every time their eyeballs
started to move (i.e., as a dream was
starting).
This whole procedure was later re-
peated over 10 nights, with the same two
subjects, but using an additional tech-
nique: it has been found that eye move-
ments which indicate dreaming are pre-
ceded by small electrical changes in
muscles under the chin. The research-
ers used these as the cue for rousing the
subjects, thus reducing the time during
which they could snatch a quick bit of
dream.
Earlier workers have suggested that
such dream starvation might have dire
psychic effects. During the day, how-
ever, these two subjects were given
various psychological tests to see if
dream deprivation was affecting their
waking lives. But the test scores were
much the same.
However, when awakened using the
muscle-change cue, both subjects report-
ed vivid dreams, even though there was
barely time to have any. One subject’s
dreams were bizarre and vivid, and he
claimed they had lasted about a minute.
The other subject reported briefer but
still vivid dreams.
The California experimenters con-
clude that the subjects may have been
able to “speed up” their dreams to com-
pensate for dream deprivation, thus
snatching a considerable ration of dream
during the brief periods before they
could be awakened. These snatched
dreams, the experimenters speculate,
may be sufficient “to prevent significant
psychic changes”, (ofns)
Wives Who
Can’t Conceive
By ABRAHAM MARCUS
jl/IANY women who cannot have babies
possess antibodies in the blood
which act against their husband's sperm.
Studies by doctors in Houston, Texas,
reported in the “Journal of the Ameri-
can Medical Association”, concerned 43
women who had failed to conceive
despite attempts for over two years.
They were organically normal in every
way and the husband’s sperm samples
were also normal.
But examination of the blood showed
that 31 of the women had antibodies
which, in the test tube, caused the hus-
band's sperm cells to clump together.
The blood of one woman produced this
effect in dimples of sperm from 104
men.
In an attempt to overcome the infer-
tility, 13 couples were asked to avoid
intercourse for from two to six months.
At the end of this period, during which
sperm was no longer in contact with the
vagina, the concentration of antibody in
the blood fell in all 13 women and
could not be detected in 10 of them.
These 10 women were encouraged to
resume intercourse with their husbands
at the time of expected ovulation when
conception would be most likely. Nine
became pregnant.
It seems probable that the concentra-
tion of antibody is built up by repeated
deposition of sperm in the vagina, that
abstention from intercourse allows anti-
body concentration to fall and that preg-
nancy is then likely to occur if inter-
course is resumed, (ofns)


GENERAL CREDITS
LIMITED
DEBENTURE STOCK
(SECOND SERIES)
0
I
1111111111 l
(PER ANNUM 5-10 YEARS)
7% 6i% 6 °lo
4 YEARS 3 YEARS 2 YEARS
(Shorter terms also available)
Applications can only proceed on the form
enclosed with the Prospectus which may be
obtained from:
• Any branch of The Commercial Bank of
Australia Limited
• Any recognized stockbroker
• General Credits Ltd.,
277 William St., Melbourne. 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. 61 8581
Branches throughout Australia.
6820
The Underwriters
lAN POTTER & CO.
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C.B.A.
Letters
Defamation of Hal Porter
SlR.—Public and prolonged acclamation
is due to Mr Hal Porter. For too long
have the Australian writers with some-
thing to say had to tolerate the ill-
informed attacks of part-time reviewers.
Few editors will make space available
to the victim of such an attack to reply.
The laws which protect the handiwork
of any other sort of craftsman have
never been held to apply to those whose
trade was words. Mr Porter has
proved that this is not so.
TOM RONAN
Katherine (NT).
SIR. —If Hal Porter had, as you suggest
he should have done (8., Jan. 9), “given
his critics the sharp edge of his own pen
instead of going to law”, would, say, the
“Mercury”-reading public have believed
him? Or would it have said, “It’s funny
that he doesn't ao to law about it, isn’t
it?”
JANE EAST
East Brighton (Vic.).
Road Deaths
SlR.—Your article on “Traffic” (8., Jan.
9) perpetuates the myth that alcohol is
directly responsible for but a small pro-
portion of road, fatalities. Yet in 1963,
in a report on the third International
Conference of Alcohol and Road Traffic,
it was stated: “For the first time it is pos-
sible to state categorically that low con-
centrations of alcohol in the tissues are
an important factor in the causation of
accidents”.
Considerable scientific evidence indi-
cates that a concentration of 50 mgm
alcohol per 100 ml blood of the driver of
a motor vehicle is the highest that can
be accepted as consistent with the safety
of other road users.
In many parts of Australia it is an
offence to drive in excess of 40 mph.
It could equally be an offence to control
a motor vehicle with a blood alcohol
in excess of 50 mgm per cent.
A. W. HARTEIG, MB, BS
Brisbane (Qld).
Pound Foolish
SlR.—Since the recommendation to
change our currency was made in August,
1960, the business world has witnessed
the rapid development of the electronic
computer, an ingenious labor-saver which
can record either £.s.d. or pure decimal
currency with virtually equal ease.
But rather than question the need for
the change at this stage, our holidaying
school-teachers may prefer to solve one
vital problem which has stumped our
currency experts.
During the proposed two-year dual
currency period, how can a 4d. article be
sold in a competing “cent store”? If
the “cent store” sells it for 3c. (3.6 d.) he
will lose 10 per cent of his turnover (or
more than his net profit), whilst if he
tries to sell it for 4c. (4.8 d.) he will lose
his customers to the “penny” store. Our
experts appear to be “dollar wise and
pound foolish”,
R. W. PARRY
Melbourne (Vic.).
Pain in the Ear?
SIR. —I was rather surprised to find that
anyone could consider my comments on
Bob Dylan “dire condemnations”. On re-
reading the review and listening again to
the recording in question (“The Free-
wheelin' Bob Dylan”), I feel I was kind
rather than condemning. I gave Dylan
credit for his original melodies and lyrics
(many of which I would agree have a
rare poetic quality admirably reflecting
the discontent of his generation), my
only criticism being his poor perform-
ance of the songs. Has Mr Rawlins
listened to this particular record? What
he calls “absolute embodiment” I still call
a pain in the ear.
TOM PICKERING
Montrose (Tas.).


o
ydney more
CHEVRON
HILTON
drive AVIS
It costs no more for the best!
C hevron Hilton offers you every modern convenience and luxury
at a sensible price. Air-conditioned throughout, every room and suite
overlooks beautiful Sydney harbour. Elegant restaurants, exciting
Cocktail bars and 24 hour per-
sonalised service. Chevron Hilton
is conveniently situated for busi-
ness, shopping, all sporting
facilities and only a few paces
from fascinating Kings Cross
night life. Make the most of your
stay, arrange for a sparkling new
Avis car to be waiting when you
reserve your accommodation.
{ • • - rt J'Ui
Miplprl
wfflmmm
mm w
mimiti
89
1
Book through any travel agent or direct with
*
CHEVRON HILTON
MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 35.0433. Cables 'CHEVRON SYDNEY'
OVERSEAS
Mao’s
Mussolini?
Providing a Second Front
By EMERY BARCS
Those of us old enough to remember
may discover disquieting parallels
between the braggings and dealings
of some of the present Asian and African
dictators and their spiritual forerunners
in Europe during the 19305. The tech-
niques of brazen bravado in international
relations, of boundless demagoguery and
of decisions authorised after the event by
mass meetings preferably in sports
stadiums—all give one the inescapable
impression of deja vu, lu et entendu.
In this gallery of contemporary prac-
titioners in the rape of the masses, Pre-
sident Soekarno probably resembles
Mussolini most. He has similar charis-
matic attractions, the ability to churn
out excellent but empty phrases, a gift
for using people and for becoming un-
aware of being used, a staggering lack
of understanding of economics and the
dilettante's delight in military parades.
These characteristics, combined with
a fair dose of personal vanity and, at
least until recently, exuberant joie de
vivre, make President Soekarno emi-
nently suitable for playing second fiddle
to someone stronger and more cunningly
ruthless who can convince the Indone-
sian leader that he is being chosen as a
joint concert-master. Such a relation-
ship existed between Hitler and Musso-
lini after about 1936. Evidence is now
mounting that Soekarno is fast graduating
to the role of Mao's Mussolini.
One cannot be quite certain yet
whether the Chinese are still only trying
to applaud Soekarno into forming a
Peking-Djakarta Axis or whether such a
secret alliance was firmly concluded last
December when Marshal Chen Yi. Red
China's Foreign Minister, visited the
Indonesian capital. This question may
puzzle the world for a while, for Pre-
sident Soekarno may wish to maintain
the fiction that he is still a non-aligned
leader. This would certainly be ap-
proved in Peking. As an insider,
Soekarno the neutralist would have a
much better chance to foster the cause of
Red China among nations which repre-
sent a largely illusionary Third Force
than if he became an outsider openly
committed to the People’s Republic of
China.
Such a double role would also help to
save face for the Soviet leaders who
have now every reason to feel foolish.


S I
r i
~:>v
\
m
■
IfS .
m;
a
H ■
4
A real live ANGEL
in
Oda)ik^
In a wonderful world of tending and caring, our lovely
nurses are indeed real live angels. And every nurse you'll
ever see always looks fresh, crisp, and neat as a pin thanks
to Cesarine. Used almost exclusively by every leading Hospital
in Australia, Cesarine is proud of its wonderful record of
service. Hospital uniforms take really hard wear they're
laundered frequently severely. Thanks to Cesarine, they
always look smart, stylish, fresh and crisp. Make Cesarine your
first choice for uniforms.
CAESAR FABRICS LTD.—Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Launceston
-k
. . . SERVING AUSTRALIA UNIFORMLY
CPB3I
After investing some £5OO million worth
of military hardware, goods and ser-
vices in Indonesia since 1955 (when the
Soviet bloc aid programme to the
country began), the Kremlin now sees
one of the key States of South-East
Asia sliding into the Chinese camp or
already in it.
As far as one can assess it the last
thing the Soviet leaders want is to be
drawn into a costly war in South-East
Asia. But it is difficult to see how they
could stay out if the present Indonesian
nibbling at Malaysia erupted into a full-
scale conflagration. As the Soviet bloc
had built the major part of the Indo-
nesian war machinery, it would be
called on to supply the necessary spares
and ammunition for which prompt pay-
ment is most unlikely.
On the other hand, Peking has every
reason to support konfrontasi to its
logical end, which is war. For Red
China the Indonesian pressure on
Malaysia is only part of a much bigger
scheme to subvert and eventually con-
quer Asia. Malaysia is that valuable
second front to tie down considerable
Western forces and resources which
could be used against the Chinese Com-
munists in the defence of other fronts.
is ample evidence that the pre-
paration for such additional fronts
is well under way. One of them is
likely to be opened against Thailand.
Last November a Thailand Independ-
ence Movement was founded in the
Communist-occupied part of Laos. The
Movement operates a radio station
which calls itself “the voice of the Thai
people” and which broadcasts subver-
sive talks and news. (In addition, Red
China has stepped up its radio propa-
ganda to Thailand's 3,000,000 Chinese
minority.) The Movement has also phy-
sically established itself in north-eastern
Thailand.
India expects increasing trouble in
the border-States of Nepal, Sikkim and
Bhutan and in its own territories of
Ladakh and the North-East Frontier
Agency. At the end of last December
the first road ever connecting Tibet with
Nepal was opened amidst great festivi-
ties.
In Bhutan, where a Chinese-indoctri-
nated soldier murdered Prime Minister
Jigme Dorji in May, 1964, Peking con-
tinues its subversion. The Indians
suspect that the next Chinese thrust
will be attempted against Bhutan for the
conquest of this small Himalayan State
would give Peking strategic control over
NEFA and Assam.
Recently fresh Chinese military pre-
parations have been reported from the
frontiers of Sikkim, the smallest of the
three border-States (area 18,000 square
miies, population 165,000) from where,
however, Bengal, Bihar and Calcutta
(only 40 miles away) are easy to reach.
Peking has also stepped up its nerve-
war on South Korea in connection with
the Park Government’s decision to send
2000 non-combatant soldiers to South
Vietnam.
And while konfrontasi is being step-
ped up and Red China is extending the
war of nerves and is making ominous
preparations for new aggressions, the
Indonesian Foreign Office spokesman,
Mr Ganis Harsono, coolly announces
that Britain plans to “launch an attack
on Indonesia” and that “the British
military build-up around Indonesia is
unprecedented in peace-time”.
This is the sort of language which II
Duce used on the eve of the Italian
attack on Ethiopia and which is now
so often used by Mao’s Mussolini in
attacking Tunku Abdul Rahman, Bri-
tain, America and all who do not want
the tragic events of history which started
some 30 years ago to repeat themselves.


WANTED
I s -
mmm
turn
IN THE U.S.A.
(Urgently!)
When you have to make a hurried business
trip—aren’t you glad your bookings can
be made in advance? Let Elders-GM
arrange it—and all your accommodations
everywhere—before you leave home.
With Elders-GM you enjoy pre-arranged
travel and become an important and wel-
come guest en route. No problems with
itineraries, accommodations and schedules
—just trouble-free travel, with all your
valuable time available for business
activity. So consult Elders-GM. For
trouble-free business travel, why not open
your travel account with us?
125 Years of Travel Experience
ELDER SMITH
GOLDSBROUGH MORT
LIMITED
ET/Cl
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • GOULBURN • ADELAIDE
PERTH • ALBANY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE
ON THE MARGIN
Making a Book
Tn past days, the jobs of the bookseller
A and the literary critic were kept
distinct. One man said which books
were good or bad; another man sold
them. It was an inefficient system, and
forward-thinking Australians have right-
ly changed it. The trend now is for
the bookseller to review the books he
sells, discuss them on radio and TV, and
if possible take a hand in publishing
them, too.
The advantages of this streamlining
are obvious. Formerly the interests of
booksellers and critics were often in
conflict. The bookseller would lay in
stocks of, say, My Life and Times, by
Eva Gabor. Then a perverse critic
would say the book
stank, and urge
people to read in-
stead some obscure
work like Over the
Bridge, by Richard
Church, of which
the shops had only
a few copies. As
a result stocks did
not move, while readers could not get
the books they wanted.
Come to think of it, one is surprised
that critics in the past did not hit on
the idea. If Matthew Arnold had run,
say, the Heritage Book Depot on the
side, he could have stocked up with
“The Iliad” in good time before giving
Homer the big plugeroo.
To show what the new criticism is
like at its best, I have invited one of
its leading exponents, Matt Bumpus, to
contribute a guest column. Matt not
only runs his successful shop, The
Booksy Nook, but writes the popular
newspaper feature Books You Should
Buy , gives regular talks on the TV pro-
gramme Culture Unlimited and is a
regional representative of the paperback
firm, Galah Books. So here he goes.
Take it away, Matt:
'LTello, you lucky literary people! I
have good news for you. Humber
and Missouri, the picture-book kings,
are bringing out a stunning volume of
reproductions of the fertility paintings
of the Navajo Indians. At 7 gns this is
a real snack.
Humber and Missouri are able to sell
their books at these ridiculous prices
because they have all their printing
done at cut rates by political prisoners
in Albania. Your Uncle Matt is taking
a punt on this one and has ordered 100
copies for The Booksy Nook. Don't
let him down!
And now something for the Australi-
ana fans. My old mate Godfrey Button
has another smash hit on the assembly
line. This time it is the first definitive
History of Australian Anthology Editing.
Button fearlessly throws light on the
dark places in the lives of the devoted
men and women who slave to keep us
supplied with bits and pieces of this and
that.
His epochal work will be published
next month by Galah Books, and if you
do not place an order now you're a
mug. Even if you prefer not to read
Button's book, it is a sure-fire invest-
ment. With the present booming market
for Australiana, it should treble its
value in ten years.
Speaking of Ga-
lah Books, the Cus-
toms Department
showed its usual in-
eptitude by holding
up for six weeks
shipments of Budd
Garfinkle’s Big Wo-
men and Bad
Wives. This sensitive study of the
folkways of smart New York exurba-
nites has been awaited eagerly by
thoughtful Australians.
The delay caused by the Federal smut-
hounds nearly made the book miss the
Christmas market. However, it was
released in time and the 40,000 copies
imported by Galah Books are moving
at record speed.
I must touch now on the big literary
scandal of the moment. It is being
talked about by booklovers everywhere.
I refer to the burden English publishers
have laid on Australian booksellers by
their 5.6 per cent increase in service
charges for making out bills of lading.
This is a blatant tax on knowledge.
English publishers are mostly mercenary
clots, with no feeling for things of the
spirit. Why not write to the Prime
Minister about it?
Looking back over 1964, I would say
without hesitation that it was a vintage
year for literature, especially Australian
literature. It saw the publication of
such masterpieces as jockey Hec Horse-
pill's autobiography, Fair Crack of the
Whip.
Incidentally, the public has been slow
to appreciate this magnificent piece of
vernacular writing. To clear out stocks
at The Booksy Nook we are offering a
limited number of copies, autographed
by Hec Horsepill, at 19s. lid. —less
than half price. Be in it!
ROSS CAMPBELL


REVIEWS
LETTER FROM LONDON
British Film Fiascos
By CHARLES OSBORNE
Last year was a somewhat hectic one
for the British film industry. After a
tense beginning with the sale of British
Lion, the situation for a time looked
healthier than it had for many months.
The studios were, if not exactly busy, at
least functioning. One or two films that
had been sitting on the shelf for years
were actually released. One of them, a
heavy adaptation of Douglas Hayes’
amusing novel “The Comedy Man”, fell
flat on its face, but Peter Brook’s “Lord
of the Flies” was surprisingly successful
at the box-office. Distribution, however,
remained the problem of the year. The
entire system requires drastic overhauling.
The fact that the Government has refer-
red to the Monopolies Commission the
question of the supply of films to ex-
hibitors means, I suppose, that at some
date in the distant future we can expect
a report. Meanwhile, the position is
gradually righting itself after a fashion,
as film after nondescript film slips quietly
into the West End of London and as
quietly disappears. If the industry as a
whole is inclined not to be too unhappy
about all this, this is mainly because of
“Tom Jones”, the James Bond films
vastly overrated critically on whatever
level you choose to take them and the
boring old Beatles (“A Hard Day’s
Night”). Apparently you can put abso-
lutely anything over on today’s teenagers.
Cinemas occasionally put on stage-shows
featuring a really fabulous array of un-
talent, and the kids roll up in thousands
to hand over their money and scream on
cue. Since the Beatles film, three or four
bad imitations of it have appeared. They
get results rather than reviews.
Films, surely, not only in Britain but
everywhere, are going through a rather
curious transitional phase. In the good
old pre-television days, the cinema knew
its audience. Today it appears not to. No
longer sure just whom it is aiming at, the
industry flings out a widely varying as-
sortment of material and hopes for the
best. The unholy and unhappy alliance of
commerce and art that makes up the
cinema industry cripples it almost dis-
astrously from the beginning. Apart from
anything else, the number of people en-
gaged in any one enterprise, with their
different aims and attitudes, is enough to
sink the tiny creative urge which may
have been the starting point. No com-
mittee ever produced a masterpiece, and
no committee that is not in complete
agreement about its motives is likely even
to produce a commercially viable film
product. There are, it is true, signs that
the industry is coming to, or being forced
to, crust its real talents more than it
used to. But this alone is not enough.
While the majority of films continue to
exist on the level of popular journalism
rather than popular art, the situation will
not improve. Complaints in Britain about
the rigidity of the distribution set-up, its
unfairness and, for that matter, its in-
competence, are all very well. The sys-
tem is absurdly incompetent: but it is
necessary for the standard of the product
to improve before any revolutionary
change is likely in its distribution. Ad-
mittedly, at present, the very few really
good films being made are completely at
the mercy of the two major circuits.
Something along the lines of what the
Americans call the “art-house circuit” is
needed here, as Penelope Gilliatt sug-
gested some months ago in the
“Observer”. But even if we had it now,
we wouldn't have enough films to feed
into it.
Two projects, potentially of interest,
appear to have been defeated by present
conditions. Many people have been
wondering what has happened to Karel
Reisz’s projected “Ned Kelly”, which was
to have been filmed in Australia. It has
been on and off for some time now, but
it now seems fairly definite that it is
finally off. “Indefinitely postponed” is all
anyone will admit to, but apparently
enough money to back the venture was
not forthcoming, and the team tentatively
assembled has had to disperse. The star
of the film was to have been Albert Fin-
ney. He has now joined Olivier’s Nation-
al Theatre, and will be kept busy on the
London stage for the next twelve months.
Less regrettable, perhaps, is the loss of
Lindsay Anderson's projected “Wuther-
ing Heights”. British films are still over-
addicted to adapting novels, and there
seems precious little point in a remoke
of an adaptation. It had been reported
that Anderson had made a deal with
United Artists over the film, but it, too,
has been shelved. The most interesting of
the newer directors, John Schlesinger, is
at work at the moment, but not in the
cinema. He's to produce a Shakespeare
play at Stratford. Desmond Davis, how-
ever, who made a fascinating debut with
“The Girl With Green Eyes”, has “The
Uncle” due for release very shortly.
Davis, a Tony Richardson protege who
began as a camera operator, may well
develop into a director of some interest.
Of the films in production here, very
few are sufficiently out of the ordinary
to be mentioned. Clive Donner is at work
on a Peter Sellers vehicle; James B.
Harris, who has produced several Ku-
brick films, is directing a sea adventure
story; Dick Lester is working on some-
thing of minimally greater interest, an
adaptation of Ann Jellicoe’s stage play,
“The Knack”, with Rita Tushingham.
Apart from all that, Vincent Price is
with us, and we’re in the throes of an-
other horror cycle. Well, it's better than
nothing.
THEATRE
Jewel Thieves
The Glazed Look. Terence Journet. St
Martin’s Theatre, Melbourne.
One of the toughest things to write is
a good farce. Zaniness needs a certain
genius, a gift for the irrational that is
hard to come by because, wherever it
resides, it is not at the top of the head.
It should be a highly methodical form
of madness which, at its best, must give
the appearance of free flow.
By these standards “The Glazed
Look” is not a good farce. The im-
possible situations are there, properly
knock-about and profuse, but they are
detached from the people who are in-
volved in them. Their nonsense is not
inverted sense, and the confusion they
create is too purposeless. The charac-
ters, thoroughly way-out in behavior
and motives, seem to have been invent-
ed to fit the situations rather than the
other way round; they are stock types
into whom nobody can project. A
policeman with a tummy that gives off
melodious noises (unfortunately, and


How would you describe a label which could
be manufactured in paper, foil, acetate or
cloth, and which could be applied to any clean
smooth surface without using heat, moisture,
gum or glue? And supposing the label could
be of two types: Permanent or Removable.
Then toss in a two-year guarantee, plus the
fact that these labels could be produced in any
shape and size. What would you have? What
would you call it?
No doubt, you’d say that this was quite a
label . . something that could help trim
production costs . . . something that could be
used in all fields of manufacturing and
retailing.
These labels are in existence today. As a matter
of fact, they’ve been used in industry since
1935. And each day over five million Avery*
self-adhesive labels are used throughout the
world.
Avery Self-Adhesive Labels can help you.
There's one tailor-made for you, and a phone
call (Cryer’s will be pleased to pay the charges)
will prove it. There’s an Avery man ready to
talk to you right now. * Avery Self-Adhesive
Labels are manufactured in Australia under
franchise by W. J. Cryer & Co. Ltd.
HOW
WOULD
YOU
DESCRIBE
A LABEL
LIKE
THIS?
; V?
/
m
sf-ys, A x**sf§
m
.
SSSS’Sgi S S*sS : <gy ,•>• BS5$Si
.
; .
.
••• . •:
W. J. CRYER & CO. LTD
75 UNION ST., DULWICH HILL N.S.W. 560-7177
W. J. CRYER (VIC.) PTY. LTD,
30 COTHAM RD., KEW VIC. 86-7911
ALIO
Please send me free samples and full information on Avery Perma-Grip and/or Kura Kleen labels.
characteristically, we are not allowed to
hear them) is just another stage-goof
copper, and two foreign men-servants
with a yen for human bones to make
pottery glaze faintly, but unfavorably,
resemble the poisoning sisters in
“Arsenic and Old Lace”.
Mr Journet is a New Zealander who
writes with an eye on London. The
background he tries to mock up is
English. Well, this is still holiday
month, St Martin’s cannot be blamed
for looking for light fare, and if it
were light enough no one would
grumble. No doubt Irene Mitchell had
a vision of repeating the success of
“Breakfast with Julia” which she helped
to launch upon an applauding world,
but she has made an unlucky choice.
There is a great deal of farce material
in New Zealand which might have made
an appetising dish for the Australian as
well as the British gourmet—the semi-
colonial madhouse is never short of it.
Perhaps the author feared that it would
bring him too close to satire, but it
could have been a mistake in the right
direction. Something of this sort would
have sustained St Martin’s reputation
for departing occasionally from the
common rut. Risking more it would
probably have risked less, which is now
generally true for the Melbourne
theatre.
The story concerns (if it concerns
anything) a jewel robbery. The two
miscreants, played with symptoms of
relish by Ray Angell and Ernie Bourne,
make their way into the ornate home of
Dr Margot Lawson where a number of
male and female relatives inanely
scheme and flirt, abetted by the domes-
tic staff, which includes a doddering
woman nursing a non-existing patient.
(The old girl talks like Minnie Bannis-
ter.) People pop in and out of Chinese
vases, mislay the silver trumpet con-
taining the loot and are shooed into the
cupboard under the stairs. In the third
act it almost reaches take-off point,
but only almost.
Moira Carleton, the doctor, presides
over this menage with the required mas-
culine horsiness. Her colleagues all
toil away like Volga boatmen, but they
cannot salvage the evening. A faster
production would have made little
difference. Paul Kathner's design is
excellent, as usual.
Terence Journet is an admirer of
lonesco. But lonesco, a pure-water
intellectual, takes farce very seriously:
as a rule he has something to say. The
other, Anglo-Saxon kind of farce is a
rare bird, these days. It flaps and flut-
ters on television, which has become its
new habitat. This, surely, is one of the
few things the idiot-box does better than
the old-fashioned stage.
DAVID MARTIN


BOOKS
The Indian Nightmare
By KHUSHWANT SINGH
An Area of Darkness. V. S. Naipaul. Andre
Deutsch. 31s. 6d.
For the last many months the Indian
Customs Department has been awaiting
instructions from the Ministry of Home
Affairs in New Delhi regarding “An
Area of Darkness”. Bureaucratic think-
ing on the subject is to seize the entire
stock and have it reduced to pulp or de-
lay its release till such time as it ceases
to be in as great a demand as it is today.
Its reception in England and the alacrity
with which the few copies which slipped
through the Customs cordon were
bought up has whetted Indian appetite.
It is bruited about that although it is the
worst lambast on modern India it is also
better written than any of its genre. In
short, Naipaul’s name has begun to stink
in the nostrils of literary Indians even
before they have had a look at his latest
work.
It is important to know something of
Naipaul’s background before judging his
work. He is born of Indian parents set-
tled in Trinidad. His Indian blood is of
the priestly order, the Brahmin blue. He
has married an Englishwoman and for
the last twelve years or more he has been
living in London. While the West Indies
provides him material for his writing,
England has been the scene of his many
literary triumphs. His novel “A House
for Mr Biswas” was rightly acclaimed by
critics as a masterpiece; it was the choice
of the English delegation for the Prix
Formentor both in 1963 and 1964.
Naipaul’s background must have been
in the minds of his publishers when they
suggested his writing a book on India
the land of his forefathers. Naipaul’s
visions of his homeland, like those of
most expatriates, were covered by a
golden mist of illusions. The disenchant-
ment was understandable particularly
as he had to act as a guide to his English
wife and explain away all he had learnt
second-hand about India. (There is
hardly any reference to the wife in the
narrative.)
The Naipauls spent the best part of
1962 travelling all over India and meet-
ing people. The autumn was spent in a
houseboat in Kashmir where Mr Nai-
paul wrote the first draft of this book.
He had not been long enough in the
country to get an insight into Indian
character and write a novel; he chose
therefore to write a travelogue and inter-
larded it with personal reactions.
Mr Naipaul owed it to himself and his
innumerable admirers to speak his mind
truthfully. He has. He did not like what
he saw of India the title of his book
leaves no doubt on that score. He found
the Indian masses dirty, disease-ridden
and servile; the police and the civil ser-
vants corrupt and sycophantic; the upper-
middle class males ludicrous imitations of
the pukka sahib, their womenfolk flighty
butterflies wasting their time in gym-
khana clubs looking through old copies
of London’s “Daily Mirror”. He found
Indian society thoroughly rift with caste
complexes. Nothing about India made a
favorable impression on the author:
neither its art nor its architecture nor its
music not even its landscape. The one
feature of Indian life which is repeated
ad nauseam is people’s habit of defeca-
ting in public. In Madras it is not Hindu
temples with their exquisite sculpture
which draw his attention but the open
gutter beside the bus-stand where passers
by down their dhotis to defecate. In Cen-
tral India it is not the jungle ablaze with
the flame of the forest in flower but
naked urchins with eyes dark-rimmed
with flies defecating on footpaths with pi-
dogs impatiently waiting for them to
finish. Even in Kashmir, one of the most
scenic places in the world, it is not the
autumn crocus or the beautiful women
that catch the author’s eye, but the
beautiful women baring their bottoms on
the beds of crocii. He makes India ap-
pear like one big dunghill. If Mahatma
Gandhi were alive today he would un-
doubtedly have castigated the book in
the same words he used for Katherine
Mayo’s “Mother India”, “a drain inspec-
tor’s report”.
Since “An Area of Darkness” is des-
cribed as a personal experience and not
a book on India, little blame can attach
to the author for having had to undergo
unpleasant experiences. But the narrative
transcends the limits of experience to
generalisations on the state of affairs in
India and far too often the author manu-
factures incidents and dialogue to but-
tress his argument. This starts with his
arrival in Bombay when a Goan travel
agent tries to get cheese from the ship’s
larder because “India produces no
cheese”. As a matter of fact India pro-
duces over a dozen varieties of cheeses
which are commonly available in most
big cities. To explain how deep the caste
system has permeated into the Indian
way of life, the author devotes several
pages to an anecdote about a steno-
grapher who though willing to take down
shorthand considers typing the same be-
neath his caste. It is rare for a typist to
be able to decipher another’s shorthand
scribble; Indian typists are no exception.
The thorny problem of Kashmir which
has bedevilled relations between Pakistan
and India for 18 years and defeated
astute politicians of the two countries is
seen through the eyes of lake boatmen
and bearers.
“An Area of Darkness”, like any one
of Naipaul's other works, is eminently
readable. He writes with great power, his
turns of phrase are a delight, his des-
cription of people and situations are ren-
dered with consummate skill. Neverthe-
less as a book on India or Indians it is
wide of the mark.
Japanese Cruelty
The Japanese Umbrella. Francis King.
Longmans Green. 265. 6d.
The Wapshot Scandal. John Cheever. Gol-
lancz. 265. 6d.
Francis King’s stories all deal with
Japan, and all deal not with an exotic
East but with the cruelty beneath the
politeness. Some give a tourist’s eye view,
but there is always the baleful eye of
Mr King there to illuminate what the
tourist missed or learned too late. At
the end of the first story the middle-aged
Englishwoman is made love to by the
Japanese student despite her resistance:
“still laughing, he forced her down first
on to her knees and then full length on
to the pile of discarded rags and refuse.”
One of the most powerful stories con-
cerns an ambitious film director who is
making a film of a goat some children
adopt; the last sequence requires the
goat’s bloated carcase to be washed
ashore.
Not all the cruelties are as obvious as
these. The subtle nuance of manner and
phrase is carefully used; each contact
of Japanese and European is likely to
bring some hurt through misunderstand-
ing, through expecting the thing that
won’t be given, through trampling on
unnoticed delicacies like the poor
Professor who accidentally and only
momentarily receives the restaurant bill
for entertaining a dinner party. And
there are the European couples who
are just slightly wrong for each other,
whose discontents and unhappinesses,
whose growing incompatibilities, Mr
King delineates with a fine delicacy.


Francis King was for five years a
British Council official in Kyoto, and
some of the most satisfactory stories are
those that involve him personally in
easily told, amusing and relaxed stories
in an Isherwood manner. He is less
happy with the people he finds distaste-
ful many of those coup'es, the con-
ciously working-class English lecturer
where he falls into some stock attitudes
of fastidious withdrawal. And the tape-re-
corder repetition of banal conversation is
at times too easy, too slack; that, to-
gether with the slight incident that so
delicately evoked almost vanishes,
weakens some of the stories into near
pointlessness. But the other common fail-
ing of the short story, the fine writing and
prose poet's vocabulary, is rare in Mr
King: he allows himself one “susurrate”
and the “crepitation” of some cicadas,
but these are exceptional indulgences.
Thirteen stories on a similar theme
create a cumulative monotony. The
cruelty beneath the politeness becomes as
much a cliche as the exotic East. The
same observations recur in different epi-
sodes, too many people collect Japanese
curios, there are too many different
academics, there are too many, too
similar misunderstandings between Japa-
nese students and Europeans; and in their
repetition the observations wear a bit
thin. A common theme is no substitute
for the structure of a novel: and the
weaker stories and duller repetitions blur
the final impression of this collection,
detracting from the very real stature
of some of the individual parts.
“The Wapshot Scandal” is a strangely
written book. The prose is slow moving,
full of weighty clauses and ponderous
rhythms. There's lots of lushness and
plushness and Keats is occasionally men-
tioned, as if Mr Cheever felt some
affinity with him. At other times he
might seem to imagine an affinity with
Sir Thomas Browne: “We are born
between two states of consciousness; we
spend our lives between the darkness
and the light . . .” But it is all so
hideously over-written, so stickily purple,
that comparisons are insulting. Of
course, it may be a send-up of over-
written writing but it doesn’t suc-
ceed as that. Mr Cheever isn’t funny
something that wouldn’t matter if he
didn’t apparently intend to be. The
novel is constructed like “Catch 22”
a seeming arbitrariness of structure that
suggests some basic purpose. But the
purpose behind the random events in
“The Wapshot Scandal” is never clear.
Melissa, a middle-aged housewife, has an
affair with her grocery boy; an elder
scientist rushes between his job in
America and his whore in Rome;
Coverly Wapshot gets his housemaid
into bed with double entendre instruc-
tions on how to work the vacuum
cleaner a less funny version of E. E.
Cummings’ poem on the brand new
car. But allied with the sexual confus-
ions and tragedies is the constant aware-
ness of death and decay, and the two
seem inextricably associated in Cheever’s
writing. It might all be taken as a dis-
turbing obsessive nightmare, but the
mechanical pretentiousness of the writ-
ing suggests it is a carefully concocted
nastiness for the jaded American palate.
The old ingredients of sex. religion and
mystery are stirred again. Sex in all
its tortured and debased and cheapened
possibilities, death in its religiose
rhythms-of-nature comfortable creepi-
ness. and the mystery of what is it all
about. It’s never clear what the scan-
dal was. R M Wl lding
Victim of Incest
O Love. O Loneliness. G. M. Glaskin.
Barrie and Rockliff. 20s. 3d.
Man on a Horse. Howard Clewes. Jonathan
Cape. 20s. 3d.
G. M. Glaskin’s “O Love” is the strong-
est fiction that I have read in months.
The synopsis speaks of a middle-aged
man's relentless search for sexual grati-
fication and of a young girl with the
morals of an alley-cat. Bunkum! There
is nothing in it for the censor. Connie
is no alley-cat, no more than Lolita
whom she superficially resembles. She
is a kid of thirteen whom life has
treated barbarously and who finds a
temporary protector in Ralph, a Perth
lawyer, who is lonely and likes girls
who can be had easily, but in whom
she awakens responsibility and latent
compassion. What happens to Connie
is certainly terrible, since she is a vic-
tim of incest and surrounded by neglect,
but that’s not the important thing.
Glaskin. in fact, is a writer in the
Creina Rohan rather than in the Nabo-
kov mould, though without her emo-
tional flamboyance, and I find Connie
more memorable than the late Miss
Rohan's bobby-battlers. Outlined with
remarkable economy, she is symbolic
for a world where even love is speeded
up and foreshortened as it hurtles to
destruction.
“O, love,” is her key phrase; when
she first meets Ralph in a bar that’s
how she introduces her request for a
match. He picks her up like many
before her, but she disappears and he
discovers that there is something in her
which he needs.' She, however, only
needs Derek, a boy of whom it would
be unfair to reveal too much. Ralph
is made suspicious by Connie's per-
petual reading of comics and by a rubber
doll she carries in her pocket. Then it is
already too late he has succumbed to
her crude, unaffected simplicity. In short,
though she behaves like a child, she is
a woman which, while making her no
less pathetic, distinguishes her from
Lolita and prevents her from becoming
a psychological cliche. Through her a
man ceases to be a Humbert Humbert.
Only towards the climax did I regret
that the story is too short to compel
Ralph into slightly more varied con-
flict situations. But there is a beautiful
unity and a powerful after-swing. It is
a tale which takes sides without labor-
ing its background, written with poise
and inner conviction ... a small tragedy
not soon forgotten.
“O Loneliness” is more ambitious but
less successful. A little longer than “O
Love”, it is, in a sense, its extension
into a classical environment. The setting,
a remote seaboard mansion, has drawn
the author into atmospheric innuendo,
recalling Henry James and Randolph
Stow. In this haunting place, to a quasi-
mystical accompaniment, a drama of
heredity is acted out in a family of
mainly artists and musicians. (Is there
something in the West that promotes
this mood?) Incest is again a motif, at
once richer and more artificial than in
the first piece: can such a tendency, as
a form of loneliness, pass down the
generations like a suicidal taint?
The technique of. narration, through a
secondary participant by way of an
outsider, has led to a rather doughy
piling up of data which obscures the
characters. We feel that we are reading
a potted saga or play and not a true
novella; an unusual experiment instead
of an exploration. If “O Love” gleams
like a hard gem, “O Loneliness” diffuses
light like a chandelier out of its proper
hall.
“Man on a Horse” can hardly be dis-
cussed in the same terms. Mr Clewes
has broken his silence with a story,
also of loneliness, placed in Brazil. Its
non-deviant eroticism, involving a visit-
ing English director of a cattle enter-
prise (weak but with hidden reserves),
his man on the spot (strong but out of
touch), the visitor's wife (unfulfilled,
hungry) and an Indian woman (elemen-
tal), is more contrived than anything
in Glaskin. We have droving (grim, with
most hands lost) and cruelty (up to
rape) against starving peasants — lots
of action which still barely supports the
superstructure. Howard Clewes toils to
vitalise his pampas, but he is up against
“Don Segundo Sombra”.
DAVID MARTIN
Maskers
Carolling home at three o’clock,
Elegant maskers to the end,
I turn the key within the lock,
You switch the light on.
We stand bare,
You with the diamonds in your eyes,
Me with the vine leaves in my hair.
EVAN JONES


Fake Religion
“Incognito”. Petru Dumitriu. Collins.
31s. 6d.
The “Incognito” of this novel is the un-
known, unrecognised God or life-force
that permeates every form of living mat-
ter in the universe; and Sebastian
lonesco, the central character, is obvious-
ly meant to be an attempt at a modern
saint-figure. At first the target for all the
arrows of the world’s suffering (as his
name implies), he later becomes a vision-
ary transfigured by his discovery of a
new-old, half-religious, half-philosophical
idea—a sort of pantheism with an added
doctrine of love.
During the earlier part of this long
book, I was ready to be gripped by the
excitement contingent upon the reading
of a suspected masterpiece, only to find
the promise gradually slipping away into
disappointment in the second part where
quasi-religious feelings are too often ex-
pressed in embarrassingly commonplace,
cliche-strewn phrases. One squirms at
moments which are intended as a
supreme revelation, e.g., “The centre was
everywhere, in my heart and in his, and
in the heart of every other mother’s son.”
It is rather like hearing Beethoven’s
Ninth Symphony with Johnny O’Keefe
belting out among the soloists in the
last movement.
There is no way of deciding whether
this is the fault of the Rumanian author
or of Norman Denny’s translation from
the French. And nothing flattens subtle-
ties of style and poetic thought quite like
a double-translation which can work like
a steamroller on an original. There is also,
as I know from experience, a tendency
among some Continental publishers to
render the most intricate prose into
another language in straight, humdrum
sentences.
The novel is told in alternating sec-
tions by two men, the Communist official
who has been called upon to collect “evi-
dence” against Sebastian in order to dis-
lodge his more powerful brothers from
the Party in post-war Rumania, and by
Sebastian himself who delivers his own
autobiography into the ofificial’s hands.
At the end, the official escapes to the
West and publishes Sebastian’s story, just
as in real life Petru Dumitriu escaped
via East Berlin in 1960 to live in Frank-
furt and write “Incognito”.
If you take this book as a chronicle
of events and disregard the way in which
it is told, there are many shattering epi-
sodes, notably those which recount Seb-
astian’s life, from its luxurious beginnings
on the vast Danubian estates of his land-
owning parents with his sister and
brothers (who have symbolic names like
Erasmus and Christian) to his breaking
free from its stagnant voluptuousness to
enlist; then the account of his nightmare
war experiences, his capture and im-
prisonment in Russia and his conversion
to Communism; his revolutionary period
in Rumania, followed by work in the
dreaded Securisti; his disillusionment
with the difference between “equality”
on paper and “equality” on the Party-
line, his renunciation of his political ideas
and finally his arrest, torture and con-
tinual persecution by his former com-
rades.
All this, with perhaps a hint of mystic-
ism running through it, could have been
made compelling. As it is, I cannot en-
dorse the publisher’s comparison with
Tolstoy’s “War and Peace” and still less
with Dostoyevsky’s “Brothers Karama-
zov” despite Alyosha. As a denunciation
of Communism by a former Communist,
the novel has interest, but here again
Arthur Koestler has done this better and
on a higher intellectual level in “Dark-
ness at Noon”.
As Sebastian questions the meaning of
life, the author tries to draw together and
link up a galaxy of religious and philoso-
phical ideas from ancient Greek to
modern Christian. But there is a lack of
finesse — the “many faces of God”
should only be hinted at with a delicate
and reticent hand. Instead Dumitriu has
sought to pin them down for everyone
and use them for a sermon from a bull-
dozer that doesn’t know when to stop.
Sebastian’s fate is deliberately left in
doubt. There are reports that he is dead
and reports that he has escaped to spread
his doctrine of love, especially love for
his enemies — the latter, if we may
judge by the experiences in this novel,
can be assumed to be keeping him fully
occupied. maria wolkowsky
Decline and Fall
A Little Learning. The first volume of an
autobiography. Evelyn Waugh. Chapman
and Hall. 51s.
Waugh’s early novels, at any rate the
first two, “Decline and Fall” and “Vile
Bodies”, are still wildly funny. This, I
think, needs to be said, because the de-
cline and eventual fall of his talent as
a satirical novelist began soon after.
Too easy to blame his conversion to
Catholicism: many another man has sur-
vived it, and in any case the seeds of the
collapse were contained, surely, in his
absurdly romantic temperament and its
alliance to an extreme and passively
uninquiring conservatism. When this
condition, after years of school and
university, was finally brought into con-
tact with the real world, it changed into
an almost permanent mood of embit-
tered disappointment. Since then,
Waugh has continually harked back to
a world that never was, except perhaps
in the fervid imagination of some long-
forgotten Nanny. His pseudo-aristo-
cratic authoritarianism has become mag-
nified with the years to such an extent
that the ill-tempered eccentric has almost
completely taken over from the for-
merly well-equipped novelist. It would
have come as no surprise if he had
entitled his autobiography “Readers
Will Be Prosecuted”.
Waugh did, admittedly, find a crea-
tive use for this state of disillusion not
only in “A Handful of Dust” published
thirty years ago, but also in the more
recent “The Ordeal of Gilbert Pinfold”.
The crypto-autobiographical element in
“Pinfold”, however, makes a very mis-
leading trailer for the autobiography
proper which, for the most part, is as
discreet and unforthcoming in matter as
it is in manner.
This first volume covers family his-
tory, childhood, Waugh’s education at
a minor public school and at Oxford,
and ends with his absent-minded suicide
attempt after a depressing experience
teaching in Wales. The prose through-
out is as plain and unembellished as the
thought, but though the central section
of the book, primarily concerned with
the author’s school days, is embarras-
singly soggy, much of the first and last
portions are of more general interest
and are distinctly readable.
Very few autobiographers are able
to write equally well about both their
parents. Waugh, not surprisingly,
scores with his father, a charming belle-
lettrist and congenital poseur. When men-
tioning his father's politics, he manages
to get in the phrase “. . . apart from the
detestation of Northcliffe and Lloyd
George which was then common to all
civilised men”. And the public school
chapters which follow are tedious in the
extreme, no different from almost any-
one else’s obsessive recollections of what
Hyde Park
Oh what was she among roses?
Slowly, on ten corned toes
She went in pale blue paisley through
the Park,
Her grey hair gathered tightly under
compressed
Chiffon, crowned with a pale pink
velvet rose.
Oh she was seventy,
And in her day, among carriages
And parasols,
Her bright and liquid eyes
Would have looked less closely
At the chrysanthemums.
JOHN CROYSTON


FOR EXPERT TRAINING
IN
FREELANCE
WRITING-
study WITH STOTT’S
If you have a flair for writing, then study
now to take advantage of the constant demand
for well-written work.
Stott's Courses in Story Writing, Freelance
Journalism, Television and Radio Script Writing
and Verse Writing will provide you with
interesting, practical Home-Study tuition under
the guidance of expert Instructors. Stott
students are taught to write work for both
the Australian and overseas market.
Write today for full details of Stott's Cor-
respondence Courses in Literary subjects.
Stotts Correspondencetolleqe
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 383 George
Street, Sydney; 292 Adelaide Street, Bris-
bane; 45 Gilles Street, Adelaide; 1130 Hay
Street, Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
NAME.'.
ADDRESS.,
Age (8.265)
STOTT'S COLLEGES undertake that no rep-
resentative will call following your Inquiry*
is most often a very painful period, and
spun out to even greater length than
usual. It's a considerable relief when
Our Hero reaches Oxford.
His contemporaries at Oxford in-
cluded glamorous and debonair creatures
such as John Sutro and Harold Acton
w. o have retained their charm and style
to this day. There is a good deal of
p'easant gossip about them and some of
their friends. It was a period (the early
’twenties) when it was fashionable to
appear to be politically involved. Waugh
proclaimed himself a Tory without
knowing anything about that Party’s
policies. Most of the finest brains be-
longed to the Labor Party, so that when
a middle-brow socialist acquaintance
came up to Oxford, Waugh flippantly
advised him to make his appearance as
a Conservative, as he’d have less com-
petition in their ranks. “He took the
advice and prospered".
And then to the incredibly grim
school in North Wales, where Waugh
taught small boys and began to gather
character material for the novels to
come. Expecting a job as secretary to
Scott-Moncrieff, he gave notice; but
the job fell through, and Harold Acton
was offputting about the opening chapters
of a novel Waugh had sent him for ad-
vice and criticism. “It is the end of the
tether’’, the would-be author confided
to his diary. He went down to the
beach, took his clothes off, leaving with
them a note quoting Euripides (the sea
which washes away all human ills), and
began swimming out to sea. But he was
stung by jelly-fish, and swam back again.
Ever since, his attitude to the human con-
dition has been one of outrage rather
than despair. Perhaps he will be more
forthcoming about this in later volumes.
CHARLES OSBORNE
Larousse Leviathans
Larousse Encyclopaedia of Renaissance and
Baroque Art. General Editor, Rene
Huyghe. Paul Hamlyn. 95s.
With over 1000 illustrations, 45 in
color, and two maps and a resoundingly
erudite list of contributors, this is some
of the best value in art books in years.
Printed in Italy in offset for the text and
black-and-white illustrations and very
fine screen letterpress for the color this
is a page-turner’s delight. The book
under four main headings details Euro-
pean Art from the end of the Middle
Ages through the Italian Renaissance,
the later Renaissance to Baroque. Within
these four divisions are subsections link-
ing important movements in religion,
politics and philosophy which coupled
with advances in techniques and some
most extraordinary personalities gave us
an artistic heritage of such magnitude
that many are reduced to padding
around it giving bits of it a prod to see
if it's really all there.
The color plates are pumped up and
sometimes badly photographed, but this
is a small consideration given the range
and scope of the written and visual in-
formation. Don't lend it to your friends.
LES TANNER
Apart from the volume reviewed by
Les Tanner above, Paul Hamlyn has
issued The Larousse Encyclopaedia of
World Geography (£8 8s.), and The
Encyclopaedia of Modern History
(£4 15s.). These formidable volumes cover
the entire range of their subjects in a
scrupulously precise and telescoped
form; the writing throughout is terse
without being ungraceful, and the illu-
strations lavish and on the whole well-
chosen. Occasional descriptive passages
in the work on geography are surpri-
singly moving and evocative: a hymn to
America, a striking evocation of the
romantic beauty of Canada and its
fabulous size and resources. The index
to this work is rather odd, however:
New York, Paris, Los Angeles and San
Francisco —to name four examples only
—do not appear in it. Perhaps this
could be corrected in future editions.
C. H.
A Thief’s Reminiscences
The Memoirs of Janies Hardy Vanx. Edited
by Noel McLachlan. Heinemann. 475. 6d.
It is rare to come across a book written
by an early Australian that can be read
from cover to cover with a feeling of
pleasure in its balance and literary quali-
ties. It is even rarer to find an Austra-
lian author of the autocratic period of
history who succeeds in finding an ade-
quate modern editor to explain him.
Mr Vaux deserves this for his is the
first Australian-written work that can
properly be regarded as literature. The
last edition came out in 1827.
Vaux was one of the most extraordi-
nary people ever to come as a convict
to Australia. He arrived in Governor
King’s day on a seven-year sentence
earned as the accomplice of a pick-
pocket. He came of a respectable
family in rather reduced circumstances.
He had his chance in the law and in
the Navy and in commerce, all before
he was eighteen. But he was a com-
pulsive thief and not a clever one. He
was fortunate that he did not get himself
hanged—he came near -to it at least
once. He was persuasive with juries,
even more so with young ladies whom
he regarded sentimentally while he had
them and threw away or parted from in-
voluntarily while in the clutches of the
law. He forgot them as he forgot his
punishments.
Most reminiscences of criminals and
exiles to Botany Bay are loaded with
malice and self-pity, but Vaux is an
exception. He forgives his enemies, if
a bit sour about the coarse old fellow
Governor King, of whom he gives a
priceless picture confirming everything
one thought about him. Over suffer-
ings he does not repine beyond decency;
he can even describe faithfully a harrow-
ing experience in a prison hulk, yet view
it with commendable objectivity. When
anything is over, with him it is over.
He makes a remarkable study of a man
born for better things but irrevocably
destined to go down into the dirt as his
natural element, and to take the rough
with the smooth. It is curious that
excellent as his narrative is, Vaux owes
a certain amount of fame which he has
always possessed not to his Memoirs
but to his little dictionary of the flash
language (appended to this edition)
which has made him an authority quoted
in every dictionary of slang. This he
compiled in Newcastle, thus investing
that city with an etymological halo as the
first place in Australia to produce a
lexicon.
It is fortunate that this edition has
been in the hands of an astonishingly
good editor. The long biography and
estimation with which Noel McLach-
lan prefaces the book tends to blanket
the main text but, unlike the vaporings
of the gentlemen of the historical socie-
ties and other eminent institutions on
such occasions, it justifies itself in pro-
viding a very well researched conspec-
tus of Vaux’s life and of the rather
unsatisfactory modern critiques and
documentation of his writing.
M. H. ELLIS


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Goldfinger Charles
You’ve got to hand it to General de Gaulle. His punch-
es are always perfectly timed. Uncle Sam and his team
of seconds reeled with embarrassment at France’s
decision to convert into gold more than 300 million dollars
by March. There was a major panic among European
speculators when it was rumored that France would convert
the whole of its official dollar holdings of 1300 million
dollars. She may still do this to press home her point that
the present international monetary system is inadequate.
But stern warnings from the US Treasury, plus heavy offi-
cial selling, smothered the gold-buying splurge from Paris.
France is dealing from strength when she challenges
America to convert dollars into gold, and France is likely to
achieve a balance-of-payments surplus of around 600
million dollars in 1965. If France insists on receiving gold
for all further additions to her reserves, it could put real
pressure on US gold resources in a year when America
may have to finance a balance-of-payments deficit of two
billion dollars.
Washington has suggested that Congress can overcome
any temporary embarrassment by abolishing the 25 p.c.
gold reserve which is required by law as a backing for the
dollar. The US gold reserve, although falling only slightly
in 1964 to around 15,338 million dollars, can meet de-
mands of only 3338 million dollars because 12,000
million dollars is frozen to meet the 25 p.c. gold backing
requirement of the Federal Reserve system.
Authorities in Washington are adamant that America can
stop any gold rush. They warn that gold speculators will
lose if they bank on any increase in the price of gold.
America has an understanding with central banks not to
press for conversion of their surplus dollars into gold and
this has been accepted throughout the European central
banking system as a necessary requirement for stable cur-
rencies.
The lack of liquidity to finance world trade, however,
has been creating pressure for further credit and France’s
move comes at a time when the recently agreed increase in
International Monetary Fund quotas requires each member
to supply 25 p.c. of the increase in gold. Those with in-
adequate gold reserves of course cannot meet this require-
ment. France, by insisting on this point, also is illustrating
that many currencies are not readily convertible and that
the US could not possibly convert all official dollar balances
into gold on request. France has agitated for some time to
eliminate “inconvertible” dollars for all nations’ reserves
and could gain some further advantage if she forces the US
and Britain to hand over 25 p.c. in gold under the new IMF
quotas. That could mean, for Britain and the US, a reduc-
tion rather than an increase in international liquidity.
France has not been happy about IMF gold deposits in
London, Paris and New York being used as an investment
by selling 800 million dollars of gold against US Treasury
bills. Gold paid into the Fund by America and Britain
under this scheme can be re-deposited with them, which is
interpreted as creating new money.
Critics of French policy say she wants to take advantage
of the gold shortage as a result of her strong position, yet
resists the creation of gold substitutes because it will help
others not so fortunate.
In fact, there are 49 countries who cannot meet the 25
p.c. gold ratio under the new IMF quotas (the other 75 p.c.
is paid into the Fund in the currency of the member
nation).
Alternatives have been advanced to surmount the prob-
lem, a notable suggestion being that the IMF should create
its own currency which could be converted either into gold
or commodities. Despite objections from European central
bankers, various experts believe that the gold exchange
system is outmoded and some form of international cur-
rency must be created which can be used for the conversion
of other currencies.
By forcing a gold crisis on America and Britain, France
has something to gain in terms of liquidity and trade. At the
same time she also creates problems for some of her Euro-
pean partners, particularly Germany. If France presses too
hard, she may force the US to suspend gold sales, thus
creating an unofficial increase in the price of gold anyway.
Against this, France is outnumbered by nations who want to
preserve stability of existing currencies and thus keep costs
stable.
Overseas Influences
Tt has been said here before, but it is worth repeating.
Overseas influences, including capital inflow and com-
modity price fluctuations, are having a growing effect on
the Australian stock market.
The locals were ready for an uplift in share prices in
the New Year, following the pattern of earlier years when
post-holiday buying, particularly from the institutions,
usually mopped up shares quickly. But, with the Indone-
sian situation, falling commodity prices and the pressure on
sterling, share buyers became very reluctant.
The panic buying of gold caused overseas investors to
think about the possible devaluation of sterling and a
consequent (if partial) reduction in the Australian pound.
As a result, some key shares were unloaded. The report
that the US was considering a stockpile release of base
metals put the damper on base metal shares. London sell-
ing was a bit heavy for the locals to absorb, particularly
on top of a recent “get out” circular from a Melbourne
broker.
Again, there is talk that further restraints may be
CONTENTS INCLUDE...
PAGE
Bankers and monetary policy . . .. . . . 45
Credit and builders 7 suppliers .. . 48
"Speculator 77 remains fairly liquid . . . 53
BHP 7 s loss of glamor 54
Wheat and the Common Market 56


necessary in February if costs continue to mount in the
face of an acute labor shortage. Also, as warned here some
time ago, imports are rising sharply.
In this climate, investors could be excused for wanting
to analyse interim reports from company chairmen in the
light of the recent company tax increase and the rising
costs of industry. The well-padded companies doubtless
will continue to show good results, especially if they don’t
have problems of high labor turnover, so it would not be
surprising to see some reassuring results.
Long-term holders invariably shrug off these dead
patches, yet the incoming investor, needs to be careful
when overseas countries are predicting less prosperous
conditions, slower growth rates (down from 5 p.c. to 4
p.c. in Europe) and off-the-boil commodity prices.
Wheat for India
'There’s no need for the slightest twinge of uneasy
conscience over the latest disposal of wheat to India
under commercial terms. By completing a purchase from
Australia totalling 200,000 metric tons (the first 75,000
tons were negotiated last August), India immediately
qualifies for supplies of liberally concessional American
wheat. Australia and the great world wheat exporters can
still keep a solicitous eye on the parlous Indian grain
situation, ready to step in with actual gift wheat.
Of course the benefits to Australia from these and
similar extra sales cannot be disguised, either, especially
in a position of lavish world supply and many bumper
crops in the offing. Accommodation may also eventually
have to be made with the grain agreement at last realised
by the European Common Market. That possibility is
discussed in a ‘’Man on the Land” article on page 56.
Massive purchases on the part of Russia and China
certainly helped the main exporting countries through 1964
and are likely to continue for some time yet. Had they
not occurred, 1964 would have seen considerable additions
to overall world stocks. In the event, stocks fell for the
third successive season.
The current general selling climate has plainly been
reflected in the prices and terms of the Indian sale" India
secured exactly the same credit conditions as apply to
Australia’s huge sales to Communist China, for con-
siderably smaller quantities.
Indeed the price reductions
were definitely stated to re-
flect “weakening in the world
market”.
India now obtains 125,000
tons, valued at nearly £3.5
million, with 10 p.c. cash on
shipment, 20 p.c. after six
months, a further 20 p.c. in
nine months, and the remain-
ing 50 p.c. in 12 months. In-
terest is payable on the de-
layed payments.
It must surely be un-
necessary to belabor the
dangers of the continuing
Indian food crisis. On the
verge of filling in details of
the Fourth Five Year Plan
with much higher demands
on industrial expansion,
India’s National Congress
Working Committee has had
again to emphasise the prim-
acy of agriculture.
" Breakthrough! A contract to supply RSL
badges."
Overdraft Growth
rise of £6.4m. to £ 1942.4 m. in Australian overdraft
limits in the four weeks to December 9 does not need
to be interpreted as going against the Reserve Bank’s
restraining policy. Normal growth of the economy would
require some increase. For example, the increase for the
corresponding period in 1963 was £7.5m. at a time when
population, costs, service charges and bank funds were
lower.
However, the rate of lending in the four weeks to De-
cember 9 jumped from £9.4m. to £ 10.6 m. a week compared
with the previous four weeks, explained as being caused
by projects of significant value to the economy.
Actual increase in overdraft limits up to December,
1964, was only £61.2m., which was relatively modest com-
pared with £110.3m. in 1963 and £124.1m. in 1962.
Payment for rising imports must have some effect on
overdrafts and the full measure of cancelled limits and
repaid loans is not so evident. December, with its heavy
retail trading, is not necessarily a good month for com-
parison. It is expected that a better guide to credit restraint
will be shown in the early months of 1965.
Lead-zinc Quandaries
Tnvestors in Barrier stocks might well have been excused
A a real sense of shock last week. First came reports
of generally reduced lead-zinc outputs for 1964 from the
Broken Hill companies. Then followed news of impending
releases of 150,000 tons of each metal from the US stock-
piles.
Yet, after all, the sharemarkets succeeded in behaving
fairly equably. The lower production virtually stemmed
from industrial troubles early in the year and current output
rates are high again. Actual metal disposed of on the
world market during 1964 will assuredly reflect the
markedly buoyant prices prevailing until the London Metal
Exchange drooped suddenly in mid-December.
So far as the American releases are concerned, they have
clearly been largely discounted on the LME. In fact, here
is most of the explanation of the recent pricing adjustments.
Not that all cause for wariness has completely dis-
appeared. Lead-zinc performance during 1965 hangs con-
siderably on world industrial
levels, particularly upon the
motor industry. In America
the outlook still appears dis-
tinctly favorable; Britain and
Europe look less promising.
Producers of both lead and
zinc, though, will hardly pro-
test if the frequent speculative
fervor which characterised
1964 can be dissipated. Zinc
suppliers are trying to get
prices down to £stg9o-95 a
ton, with their eyes fixed on
the competition from alumin-
ium and plastics. Lead also
must watch replacement
materials.
Given no undue fall-off in
consumer demand through
1965, each metal expected
some supply shortfall. Rea-
sonably spaced American re-
leases should obviate that, as
well as encouraging adequate
and more stable prices.


INVEST IN
UNSECURED NOTES
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
Registered 19th December, 1929
I°/
O /c
2
o
10 YEARS
TO APPLY ASK AT ANY BRANCH
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
7*/ 4 % - - - 7-9 YEARS
7% ... 6 YEARS
6% 3 YEARS
S x /z% - - - 2 YEARS
5%% - - 12 MONTHS
Other short term rates available
FOR PROSPECTUS & APPLICATION FORM
Applications will be accepted only on the printed forms attached to the
Prospectus. Your copy available from all Members of Stock Exchanges,
over 750 Branches of the A.N.Z. Bank and I.A.C. Branches.
Branches at
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
HOBART CANBERRA DARWIN
Underwriters: Jan Potter & Co.. Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and Brisbane.
8765 N
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Brass Tacks for Bankers
Discriminatory influence of monetary policy
HTaking as their theme “The role of
A banks in a rapidly developing eco-
nomy”, 160 bankers from 37 countries
are gathering in Melbourne for the 18th
International Banking Summer School
from the Bth-20th of next month. With-
out doubt this will be the biggest galaxy
of bankers ever to assemble here. This
is the first time the school, which is held
in Oxford every third year and overseas
the other two, has been booked for the
Southern Hemisphere. So it is some-
thing of an occasion.
Most of the time the bankers will be
engaged in discussion groups, each led by
an Australian banker, when presumably
they will be picking the bones of the
nine lectures to be delivered in open
session by an array of experts from the
banking fraternity and wider afield.
Needless to say, with a fortnight to play
with, the organisers have covered the
ground opened up by the general sub-
ject very thoroughly. That they will get
down to the brass tacks of the contro-
versial issues surrounding the control of
banking in Australia’s rapidly developing
economy can be taken for granted.
Even so, the only reference in the
prospectus to the central issue is in a
lecture to be given by Mr H. F. Clarke,
chairman of the Australian Bankers’
Association, who has been given the
tough assignment of examining the
touchiest of all problems facing the
trading banks here. This problem was put
succinctly by the president of the Bank
of New South Wales, Mr John Cadwal-
lader, who, at the company’s annual
meeting last month, noted the fact that
recent fiscal action to curb the incipient
boom had been more a reversal of either
relief measures than an active restraint
and that the Government had turned to
monetary policy for its main attack.
The difficulty of this approach, he said,
is that the monetary instruments used
are largely ineffective over a growing
and important sector of the structure.
Mr Cadwallader then put in his
punch. “It is evident that monetary
policies of restraint fall disproportion-
ately on the banking system,” he said.
“Non-bank financial institutions and the
big companies which can operate in the
capital markets are left largely un-
affected. It is mainly because of the
discriminatory effect of monetary policy
on the banking system that we have
argued vigorously and consistently for
a willing acceptance of flexible interest
rates to spread the load of policy more
evenly over the whole system. The
growth of the non-banking institutions
has narrowed the area over which the
Central Bank has control, and every
fresh measure of restriction over the
banks offers a further stimulus to an
expansion outside the banking system.”
The general manager of the ES and A,
Mr H. McE. Scambler, took very much
the same line when talking to the Aus-
tralian Institute of Management a month
or so earlier. He said he believed that
“because of certain weaknesses in
our monetary policy and because
there has been insufficient emphasis
on fiscal policies to operate at the
same time, there has been undue restric-
tion through the banks on the volume of
bank credit”. On many occasions since
the war, he stated, by increasing the
money supply through bond purchases,
the Reserve Bank has tended to cancel
out the effects of its control of bank
lending and this has only accentuated
the need for bank restriction. On top of
this, he went on, “was the offsetting of
J. CADWALLADER
bank credit restrictions by greater acti-
visation of the money supply through
the rapid expansion of the non-bank
finance intermediaries'’.
This nest of problems has, of course,
been with us for a long time and in face
of constitutional difficulties we seem to
be as far from solutions as we were
four years ago, when the tax-on-interest
was being tried. Since then, admittedly,
there has been a big improvement in
the application of monetary policy, but


INVEST IN
UNITED DOMINIONS
Corporation (Australia) Limited
Paid up Capital £1,500,000
P.A. FOR 5 YEARS
Applications may only be accepted on the
printed forms included in the Prospectus and
obtainable from:
m Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
■ The Commonwealth Trading Bank.
■ The A.N.Z. Bank Limited.
■ The Brokers to the issue:
A. C. Goode & Co.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide.
■ UNITED DOMINIONS CORPORATION
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED,
Sydney Melbourne Adelaide
28-0541
62-6984 23-1202
Rockhampton
8341
Brisbane
51-1771
VZ9' L'DOfl
this has not been put to the test in con-
ditions of excessive use of funds by
fringe financiers.
The reason for this is partly because
the trading banks have been shoulder-
ing the full burden of credit contain-
ment and partly because the system is,
surprisingly, still free of speculative
fever. Nobody should run away with
the idea that, because the trading banks
have a handsome fist in the outside
finance business, this is necessarily the
ideal solution for them. It is certainly
not for the economy as a whole, at any
event. It still leaves too big a loophole
for credit to run riot in speculative cir-
cumstances. Even if we have avoided
it so far in this cycle, we could very
easily have a repetition of 1960.
Dr R. F. Henderson is down to speak
on “Finance for Industry”, under which
he will tackle short as well as long term
finance. In his excellent paper to the
Institute of Management (see Bulletin,
December 5, 1964), he stopped short of
giving his views on how a commercial
bill market would operate and how it
would help to oil the works of industry.
Now, presumably, he will give this sub-
ject the full treatment and outline the
role the banks are anxious to, and could,
play. One of the trading banks, the
ANZ, has already registered a bill mar-
ket company. Dr Henderson is also to
talk about factoring and trade credit,
two aspects of short-term financing
needful of closer examination here, as
well as other facets.
Several of the speakers, including the
Federal Treasurer, Mr H. E. Holt, Dr
H. C. Coombs, VVA’s Minister for In-
dustrial Development, Mr C. W. N.
Court, and New Zealand’s Professor F.
W. Holmes are to talk on the problem
of allocating resources between the pri-
vate and public sectors of the economy.
This is one close to the heart of the
banks, which still play the major role
in the provision of finance for the pri-
vate sector if not for long-term capital
(as they used to) then certainly for short-
term, but find themselves the main butt
for restriction when it comes to restrain-
ing the general pace of the economy.
In his talk to the Institute of Manage-
ment, Mr Scambler showed himself sen-
sitive to one of the main issues on this
front by developing the theme that
monetary and fiscal restraints should
run together.
If, as the Prime Minister considers,
the private and public sectors should for
practical purposes be taken together,
“we should see to it”, he stated, “that
fiscal policy is strongly directed towards
reduction of expenditure by Govern-
ments at the same time as reduction of
expenditure is being required of the
people. It may sound easier politically
to intensify monetary policy restrictions
but it must surely be more effective, and
in the end less painful, if necessary re-
ductions are made where possible in
Government expenditures as well as
those of the public”.
However, we should all know by now
that it is virtually impossible to reduce
Government expenditure these days and
it has almost become old-fashioned to
suggest it. Cutting back public works to
ease pressure on resources is seldom
heard of in this country as a boom
containment measure, though it is ac-
cepted practice in Britain, for instance.
Provided Governments in Australia can
get the necessary funds, they usually
press on with their works programmes
regardless of the pressures on resources.
This is one of the present facts of
economic life to be taken into account
by bankers who think that boom con-
tainment measures should be shared by
the public and private sectors alike. It
is just a thought, but it seems logical
that the pace at which the private sector
should be expanding ought to be geared
to that at which basic services can be
expanded to sustain it. Talking with
Sir Douglas Copland recently, he re-
minded me that in January, 1960, at the
Australian Institute of Political Science
summer school, he said the economy
could well become unstuck if we didn’t
increase the proportion of GNP going
to public investment from the then
8 p.c. to 10 p.c. Checking out the
figures, I find that last year we managed
just under 9 p.c.
Looking around the economy today
it is clear that Sir Douglas was quite
right. There are many examples of the
failure of public works to keep pace
with the rapidly expanding private sec-
tor. To take but one example. In
Victoria, where there was close to 100
derailments on the railways system in
1964, an expert has estimated it would
take £7O million capital expenditure to
bring the network up to scratch. Maybe
Sir Douglas wasn't so far from the
mark with some of his suggestions on
that occasion for finding more money
for Government works, albeit at the
expense of the private sector.


' v\
It’s 15 degrees cooler at number 27
It’s hot again. Hot outside and not much cooler inside.
Except at No 27. Last summer they called the Insulwool
people and had their entire ceiling insulated with
Insulwool. So now they’re 15 0 cooler than the house
next door.
Insulwool stops the heat at the ceiling. A thick
laver of rock fibre traps millions of tiny air pockets.
So the heat is effectively retarded. It means you live in a
better climate all the year round.
Insulwool is spun out of molten rock so it never
deteriorates. Lasts a lifetime. Fire-retarding and damp-
proof. It takes less than a day to condition your home
with Insulwool. No mess, no fuss. For an average
home it can cost as little as £45 to install. (It increases
the value of the home by far more than that.)
Cooler in summer, warmer in winter and in winter
you save up to 40% on fuel bills. No other single thing
can add so much comfort to your home.
So, if you don’t live at No 27, ring Insulwool today
for a free quotation. Or at least fill in the coupon below
and get all the facts.
Insulwool
INSULWOOL PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.
A Division of Australian Gypsum Industries Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
Gentlemen'. Please tell me, without obligation, how my
house can become another No 27.
NAME
ADDRESS -
4194


Builders’ Suppliers Talk Credit
Fine margins eroded by bad debts
npHE men behind builders —the build-
ers’ suppliers—are concerned about
the conditions of credit entering the
industry. Like the retail traders men-
tioned in an earlier issue of The
Bulletin they have a bad debt pro-
blem. Unlike the retail traders, their
solution is not as simple.
The Bulletin spoke to suppliers of
builders’ requisites in both Sydney and
Melbourne. Almost to a man they
agreed the position was serious. Several
suggestions were put forward. In NSW
a bonding scheme for builders (such as
they had in Victoria) could help to
eliminate a major portion of the risk
a supplier runs when he sells to a
builder whose credit is doubtful.
A central credit reference bureau,
similar to the one many retail traders
want, was also suggested. Already there
are credit bureaux for various building
materials such as timber, but the major-
ity of suppliers would like to see such
facilities extended to cover all aspects
of building a tremendously difficult
task. Possibly more than anyone else
the building supplier is at the mercy of
those builders who are “financially in-
competent”, the type discussed in last
week’s Bulletin.
The risk the builders’ supplier runs
varies with the stage of completion a
house has reached. There is little
worry about payment for bricks, con-
crete, or other materials used in the
early stages of construction. Get inside
the house, though, when hardware is
being installed, and the risk is much
greater, particularly if the builder has
no buyer in sight.
Fortunately for the supply industry,
the very late or non-payer is an ex-
tremely small proportion of the total.
Nevertheless he makes his presence felt.
One supplier estimated that of total
sales of £6OO million a year, more than
£BO million was not paid on time. “On
time” varies from 30 to 90 days. “Over-
all, the bad debt rate is between one and
two p.c.,” he said. A high figure? “It's
impossible to be completely accurate on
this, but just from my observations of
the industry it would seem to be a
pretty fair guess,” he added.
With bad debts comes an attendant
worry from very fine profit margins.
General feeling in the industry is that
margins are so fine now that even a
minute increase in bad debts could
have serious financial repercussions.
lan F. Weatherley, secretary of the
Builders’ Exchange of NSW and a
director of Vistawalls Pty Ltd, a Syd-
ney suburban builders’ supplier, said the
biggest problem facing the industry is
credit. “Many of these smaller build-
ers are undercapitalised and conse-
quently cannot pay on time or at all.
There is no relation between the value
of works and paid-up capital. Quite
often it is almost impossible to get any
indication of how good a builder’s
credit is. He relies on his progress
payments and if something goes wrong
there then it is felt all along the line.
The small builder today cannot live
without credit. If he is to have cre-
dit, then stringent controls must be ap-
plied to keep the situation from getting
further out of hand.
“I’ve had builders come to me for
supplies who cannot quote me a con-
tract number. Some don’t even have a
bank account! It has got to the stage
now where we refuse the business, and
will continue to refuse business, where
we have no idea of a man’s credit
rating. And such a rating must be com-
piled from all sources—other suppliers,
architects, contractors, and so on. Until
we can cover all aspects of a builder’s
credit there are too many gaps that
can be too easily filled in. It’s much
the same as the retailers. A man want-
ing credit will quote store A and store
B where he keeps his accounts paid.
He won’t quote store C which has been
hounding him for months.”
A director of a large timber and brick
supply company feels that some of the
problem of credit could be overcome by
putting an absolute limit of 30 days on
outstanding accounts. “If all suppliers
compel the builder to pay within 30
days, then he is less likely to bite off
more than he can chew and will take
a more responsible approach to what he
has in hand.
“Some builders with perfectly good
credit and a bank balance able to handle
their bills still do not pay in the allotted
time. This is the fault, I think, of the
business set-up and lack of order in
‘office’ procedure. Some accounts are
put to one side and forgotten until a
reminder arrives. As far as I’m con-
cerned about 40 p.c. of our customers
pay on time. The other 60 p.c. can be
weeks and months behind.
“I agree that we need credit control
in the industry, but it's a massive task
to set up a bureau. If we could start
at the foundations as it were —with the
brick, timber and steel suppliers setting
up a reference bureau—then we could
lick the problem inside 12 months. If
we can stop the risky builder before
he can even set foot on the land, then
we've gone a long way to reducing our
bad debts.”
Mr J. H. Rodd, a director of G. A.
Duncan Pty Ltd, Sydney timber agents,
exporters and importers, said the build-
ing industry “has more than its fair
share of bad debts. We may be able
to cut them down in NSW if a system
of bonding such as operated in Victoria
were introduced. Make the builder
put up his money too, before any con-
tracts are signed. It's not the complete
answer, yet it would weed out of the
industry those builders who cannot
possibly hope to achieve what they
promise.”
Mr E. Hart, newly appointed secre-
tary of John Mcllwraith Industries,
Australia’s biggest supplier of builders’


ANSETT TRANSPORT
INDUSTRIES LIMITED
£4,000,000
DEBENTURE STOCK ISSUE
(of which £3,000,000 has been underwritten)
0
10, 15, 20 or 25 YEARS
Applications may proceed only on the
form attached to this prospectus ob-
tainable from:
@ Any member of a Recognised Stock
Exchange.
@ Any Branch of the English, Scottish
and Australian Bank Ltd. or Australia
and New Zealand Bank Ltd.
© Any office of the joint Underwriter,
lan Potter & Co.
$ Any office of Ansett Transport In-
dustries Ltd. or its subsidiaries.
Underwriters:
lAN POTTER & CO.
(Member of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
360 Collins Street, Melbourne
AUSTRALIAN UNITED CORPORATION LIMITED
411 Collins Street, Melbourne
V2039/16
and plumbers’ requisites, felt that the
supply-demand situation was fairly well
in balance at present. “Possibly de-
mand is slightly ahead but we are
managing to hold our own. We feel
that the current rate of permits for new
building should go on for another
twelve months at least, barring any
Government action. As the demand for
builders’ supplies usually comes about
three or four months behind the per-
mit figures, the present level should
continue for another fifteen or sixteen
months.”
Like most other firms, Mcllwraith
has found that the builder will go to
his local supplier for his needs, al-
though this may not be as much the
case with bigger items such as piping
which he usually has delivered rather
than bother with picking it up himself.
Although there is no price advantage
in dealing with his nearest supplier, time
saved and convenience invariably lead
him to deal locally.
One of the keys to Mcllwraith's suc-
cess has no doubt been the opening of
branches in developing areas. “We have
opened four new branches in recent
years,” Mr Hart said, “and we found
that initially one of the existing outlets
lost a little business. This was soon
regained, however, and before long the
new branch was operating profitably
too, merely because it was closer to the
centre of building activities.”
In Melbourne the general rule is
payment to the supplier within the
normal 30 days. “We have our credit
problems like everyone else,” Mr Hart
continued, “but generally the 30 days
rule is adhered to. I believe that a
lot of the suppliers carry the builders
in Tasmania, mainly through the use
of 90 days' credit.”
Mr Harry Beecham, a director of
H. Beecham, held a view which was
representative of most of the other
suppliers spoken to by The Bulletin
in Melbourne. Like the Mcllwraith
people he felt that the supply was
meeting demand on a more balanced
basis than had existed for some time.
However, this seems to be as far as
agreement between Mcllwraith and
most of the suppliers went, possibly the
main reason being that the latter is by
far the biggest in the field and also
that it operates on an Australia-wide
basis.
Mr Beecham was emphatic that
price, not locality, was the main factor
in determining who the builder bought
from. “If prices are similar then he
will usually look to the company’s
reputation as a deliverer of goods on
time and in good condition before
making his decision. The only instances
where locality counts are either where
the builder just needs some small item
in a hurry, or where he is only a small
operator in a certain area anyway and
so gives all his orders to the local man.”
The rest of the suppliers spoken to,
as well as Beechams, all expressed
varying degrees of concern over the
problem of bad debts. While most of
them are not supporting any of the
builders, it seems that bills are rarely
paid within 30 days. So the time fac-
tor is taking a lot of the cream off the
profits which would otherwise be earned
in these buoyant times. Many firms
have got to the stage where they do not
even bother chasing a prospective order.
A big firm like Mcllwraith can
withstand a few bad debts. With many
c f the smaller operators, a hold-up in
payments by only a couple of custo-
mers can a g ect p ro fit s to quite an ex-
ten, The b|em js a , , one
, , , , r A ,
of del f ed
P a >™ ent - but there are Sowing fears
,n man >' quarters that the latter pro-
blem will be the dominant one once
th e rate °f building starts to taper off
and it becomes evident that the present
bubble is about to burst.


Invest in
XS<S3
%
INTEREST
UP TO
FOR
5
YEARS
PAID UP CAPITAL £8,950,000
Applications only accepted on prinTed forms included in the
prospectus obtainable from: all branches of the Bank of
New South Wales. Your stockbroker. Anv AGC branch.
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
A.G.C. House
Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney ® 0324
ASK THE 'WALES' FOR DETAILS
ND7.N.
INVESTMENT
A Ruined Reconstruction
Facts on Stanhill Development Finance
the nure of hogwash and waffle
A through which the shareholders and
creditors of Stanhill Development
Finance have been ploughing ever since
the directors submitted a rather vague
scheme of reconstruction to them some
weeks ago have emerged a few indis-
putable facts which could ensure that
the company will at last be wound up.
They have been put forward in a circu-
lar (urging unsecured noteholders to
reject the directors’ scheme) from Mr
K. D. J. Coventry of T. and G. Nomi-
nees, trustee for the noteholders.
In a biting but sensible slating, which
gave no undeserved mercy to the direc-
tors, he first pointed out that there was
still no firm indication that the £400,000
needed to re-launch the company had
been raised. Moreover, it was from this
amount that the noteholders were to
receive the extra £5 promised if recon-
struction was adopted. If directors wish
to gain the approval of noteholders,
shareholders and other unsecured cre-
ditors at the series of meetings to be
held on January 28 at the Chevron in
Melbourne, they will have to furnish a
feasible reply to this and Mr Coventry’s
other arguments. Possibly Mr Stanley
Korman’s current trip to New York and
London is an attempt to meet this
challenge.
The second criticism was that, if all
facets of the reconstruction came
through, the company would have
£280,000 in tangible assets against loan
liabilities of £325,000 and a paid capital
of £300,000. Thus the trustee claims
that the shares to be issued to note-
holders would have no immediate tan-
gible asset backing. Of course the direc-
tors’ answer to this will probably rest
mainly on the fact the situation will
only be initial. An asset backing could
be achieved once the new venture start-
ed earning profits and a percentage of
liabilities were eliminated. However, if
they choose to retaliate in this manner,
they could be embarrassed by the trus-
tee’s third argument.
In this he dwells on the fact that no
mention has yet. been made of what
activity a reconstructed SDF would
pursue and who its management would
be. The answers to these questions are
basic for any consideration of the com-
mercial possibilities of the scheme. Also,
whether any more than a small pro-
portion of the £3 million in losses so
far could be used to reduce tax on
future profits has not been tested and
remains uncertain.
Mr Coventry’s next consideration will
be even more difficult to combat. The
scheme requires the SDF’s debts to note-
holders be “fully and finally compro-
mised and compounded”. This means
that if the company were wound up
after the composition (“as it could be”)
the noteholders may have deprived them-
selves of their right to share as credit-
ors in any money recovered by a
liquidator in the event of misfeasance
proceedings being successful. Directors
will be at a loss to counter this argu-
ment.
They could point out that approval
all round will be necessary to get
Supreme Court sanction for the scheme
and, if this is gained, their chances of
defeating the Attorney-General's petition
to wind the company up (to come before
the Court in February, on the grounds
that it is in the interest of the public,
shareholders and creditors) would be
enhanced.
The final note of disapproval brings
forth the further financial loss to note-
holders which would result if the Attor-
ney-General’s petition was successful
after the scheme had been sanctioned
by shareholders, etc., and the Court.
For this reason Mr Coventry feels the
reconstruction should not be considered
until the outcome of the petition is
known.
Significant Selling
rpo those who consider turnover figures
-*■ an integral part of their perusals
over the share tables in Melbourne’s
daily papers, the number of special sales
revealed in the week January 4-8 inclu-
sive must indeed prove alarming. These
sales were formerly made under the pink-


TRADE?
THE BANK OF
NEW ZEALAND
has all the answers
Whether you are interested in
Import or Export. .. The Bank of
New Zealand not only has the
answers but all the facilities to
assist you. With nearly 400
branches and agencies the B.N.Z.
offers the most experienced and
widespread advisory service in
the Dominion. Your enquiries
will be more than welcome.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
339 George Street
MELBOURNE BRANCHI
347 Collins Street
HEAD OFFICE:
Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
Savings Bank facilities in New Zealand,
Fiji, and Western Samoa.
Branches in London and the Fijian Islands.
Agents throughout the world.
130 A
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A C DRAPER
N. W. C DRAPER, R F CORIvIIE
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH:
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089
slip system to which finance journalists
had no access, thus preventing publica-
tion. The Stock Exchange decided to re-
veal all such sales as from the beginning
of 1965 and, though there are still loop-
holes to be covered, the move has indeed
been a welcome one (see The Bulletin,
January 9, p. 40).
Its significance has undoubtedly
proved to be larger than most investors
expected. They were completely astoun-
ded on Wednesday, January 6, when
it was discovered that 225,000 BHPs
had changed hands at 565. 9d., 3d. below
the market price, under the special sale
system. This was believed to be one of
the biggest share swaps ever until one
Stock Exchange official told a reporter
from the Melbourne “Sun”: “You
haven’t seen anything yet. Much bigger
sales are quite common”. Perhaps he
may have been just a little facetious.
The following day another 20,800
changed hands at 565. 9d., the then
market price. More important, however,
was the sale of 104,000 Wilke units at
14s. 3d., 2s. 6d. below the market. As
this represents almost 5 p.c. of the com-
pany’s capital, pink-slipping of the
transaction under the old system could
have been regarded with considerable
sternness. Even though the sale was
revealed, the fact that the identity of
the seller and his reasons for disposing
remain unknown makes the knowledge
of the sale more a rouser of curiosity
than a valuable piece of information.
Investors are looking forward with
interest now to the busier periods of the
year, when the number of special sales
should be even greater than the first
week of January with the market gener-
ally going through one of its quieter
spells.
Good Boring
the latest result from
Queensland’s Intercolonial Boring
Co. is not directly comparable with the
previous year’s it is, nevertheless, an
extremely good one. In the year to
October 31 last the group earned a
record £206,814, which is £62,552 or
43.3 p.c. higher than the 1962-63 result.
Profit is not strictly comparable be-
cause it includes operations of Engineer-
ing Supply Co. of Australia Ltd and
Agricultural and Industrial Finance Co.
Pty for 16 months and of Wyeths for
14 months. These companies previously
balanced on June 30 and August 31
respectively, but now fall into line with
the parent. The result remained after
£68,877 higher tax at £148,895. Depre-
ciation is more than double at £68,744.
Dividend is held at 15 p.c. for the
tenth successive year. Earning rate
works out to about 22 p.c. but this
naturally does not present an exact pic-
ture as it includes more than a year’s
trading for the previously mentioned
subsidiaries.
IBC has expanded over recent years
and its activities now include irrigation,
pumping and water softening equipment,
hardware, automotive parts, swimming
pool filters and pool equipment supplies.
Its 20s. shares are currently priced at
around 535. 6d.
First Interim
T>uilders’ hardware manufacturer R.
B. Davies Ltd has confirmed last
year’s higher dividend of 10 p.c. with an
interim payment of 5 p.c., tax free.
This is the first time the group has paid
an interim. The new procedure comes
after a 32 p.c. increase in turnover
during the half-year to December, com-
pared with the previous corresponding
period.
The tax-free nature of the payment is
a result of the takeover of Australian
Block and Chain Co. Pty in October
last year. Directors said in the interim
report that building extensions to Aus-
tralian Block’s plant were well in hand
and will consolidate R. B. Davies’ acti-
vities on one site. Sale of the other
Melbourne factories should be completed
shortly.
News of the increased dividend
affected the 20s. shares, which went up
to 28s. 6d. However, with the evidence
of stronger trading conditions the price
could go higher. (An article on build-
ers’ requisites suppliers appears on
page 48.)
Trans pec Prospect
HTranspec Ltd could well be paying
A more than its predicted 10 p.c. divi-
dend in the current year if the figures
released in last week's interim report are
any guide. The company is a Victorian-
based supplier of equipment to the trans-
port industry, listed only last month.
In the six months to December 31,
turnover was running at an annual rate
of £1.2 million, directors said. They did
not mention profits, though conclusions
can nevertheless be drawn. In the
1963-64 year profit after tax at public
rates was £52,000, equalling 20.8 p.c. on
the projected paid capital. Sales were al-
most £BlO,OOO. Now, assuming the pro-
fit to sales ratio is maintained in the cur-
rent year, profit after tax should come
out at around £77,000, equalling more
than 30 p.c. on capital.
Such an assumption may be on
thin ice, not the least reason being that
cost ratios rise with such expansion and
taxes rise with rising profits. However, as


Invest in
alliance
issue no. 5
£1,000,000
DEBENTURE STOCK AND
UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES
UP TO
INTEREST PAYABLE EVERY 3 MONTHS
DEBENTURE STOCK UNSECURED NOTES
TRUSTEES: THE M.L.C. NOMINEES LIMITED
HOW TO INVEST
Applications are to be made on the form attached to the
Prospectus available from:
Any Branch or District Office of The Mutual Life
Assurance Company Ltd.
Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
Any branch of Alliance Holdings or of its Subsidiary
Companies.
ALLIANCE HOLDINGS
LIMITED
SYDNEY: Shell House, 2 Carrington Street. 29-7641
MELBOURNE: 636 St. Kilda Road. 51-1241
BRISBANE: 509 Queen Street. 31-1951.
ADELAIDE: 50 Grenfell Street. 8-6131
PERTH: 177 St. Georges Terrace. 21-5907
WOLLONGONG: Cnr. Crown Street and Railway Parade. 2-5657
NEWCASTLE: Portadown Discounts Ltd.,
484-486 Hunter Street West. 2-4112
CANBERRA: Cnr. London Circuit & Petrie Street. 4-1291
AAI6O
turnover is likely, in fact expected, to
rise even further in the current six
months, the net effect should in the end
be a profit which touches the £70,000
mark.
Even this conservative estimate would
produce an earning rate in the vicinity
of 28 p.c. Such being the case, a bigger
dividend is most likely.
Bid Accepted
Philips Electrical Industries Pty
A Ltd’s bid for Sydney wire and steel
products maker H. Pettiford Holdings
Ltd has been successful with, at the time
of going to press, a 60.49 p.c. accept-
ance. Terms of the offer were 18s. cash
for each H. Pettiford 20s. share and a
stipulation that it retain its Stock Ex-
change listing.
Retention of listing is seen in invest-
ment circles as an attempt by Philips to
gain some kind of “back door” listing,
but no official comment has been made
on this theory. Philips’ offer was for
not less nor substantially more than 60
p.c. of H. Pettiford’s paid capital of
£404,016.
Draff in’s Dividend
T\espite the lower profit in the half-
year to September 30, Draffin
Everhot shareholders should not be too
perturbed by the possibilities of a divi-
dend cut in the current year. Last year
the normal 10 p.c. payout was boosted
to 12 i p.c. to celebrate the fortieth
birthday of this Melbourne-based manu-
facturer of hot water services and slow
combustion heaters. There is no reason
why this should not be continued (except
that the current year will not be one
warranting celebration) in 1964-65, as
earnings were well over 25 p.c. last year
and any setback is unlikely to be very
drastic at all.
In fact, directors point out that the
drop in the half-year was only slight.
In announcing the result after detailed
figures for tax and depreciation recently,
the company also joined the small but
growing list of organisations which have
decided to publish half-yearly accounts.
On the other hand, Draffin is still one
of the few which do not declare interim
dividends. Such a move in this case
would eliminate a lot of doubt from the
thoughts of shareholders and also
remove the slight speculative nature
the stock will hold as long as the divi-
dend future is in doubt. Perhaps some
explanation for this approach can be
found in the fact that the company’s
business is seasonal, most of it being
done in the cooler months.


/
0
0
tjQ
F
P.A
‘current
rate
ik;|!
STG/12
SECURITY: Strong liquidity
reserves. The Society's total
assets exceed £5 million.
WITHDRAWALS: Your money
is available ANY TIME, if
required. No brokerage or
other deductions.
DIVIDENDS: Paid Twice
Yearly.
Write for brochure without obligation!
ST. GEORGE & CRONULLA
PERMANENT CO-OPERATIVE
BUILDING SOCIETY LIMITED
Co-operation House, 36 Ormonde Pde., Hurstville.
Phone 57 0201.
CITY: Berger House, 82 Elizabeth Street. 28 2801
MIRANDA: 551 The Kingsway. Phone 52 6466
AGENCIES:
Chatswood: Ist Floor, 389 Victoria Ave. 41 4295
Parramatta: 21a Smith St. Phone 635 7401
SPECULATORS DIARY
A Liquid Complacency
Sudden market falls no worry
a good half of my capital in
cash, I’m not too concerned with
any sudden fall in the market. Not that
I do think the market will collapse. More
likely it will be a slow wilt!
Metal shares did fall away in the
week. The fall was forecast a day or so
before by one broker and the financial
Press thanked him warmly for warning
them.
It was simply the state of the price
of wolfram that decided my buying into
King Island Scheelite again. After rising
swiftly to over 17s. at the end of last
year, the price had drifted back to
15s. 9d. Yet wolfram has remained firm
at 2075. 6d. to 2225. 6d. per unit. After
a purchase of 200 shares at 15s. 9d. I
moved to the surer footing of the in-
dustrial market.
With an unfamiliar company it’s often
a good exercise to look at the financial
record and the most recent reports, and
then try to work out a fair share price.
The case I took was Pyrox.
Most small companies have one main
activity. This makes the final analysis
comparatively simple. Not so with
Pyrox. Very briefly, they are mixed up
with precision engineering, heaters, con-
crete products, floorings, tape recorders,
projectors, television equipment and
optical products.
Perhaps it is this variety of activities
that occasionally catches up with the
company and causes losses such as the
one in 1963. Yet provided operations
are properly managed, this wide diversi-
fication should stabilise group trading.
Directors attributed this 1963 loss to
a number of reasons a sharp fall in
income on contracts secured on behalf
of overseas principals, losses on stock,
and preliminary losses on the concrete
products. Apparently the concrete pro-
ducts division continued to make losses
in 1964, but a small profit is expected
to be shown from this division in the
current year.
In the annual address in November,
the chairman talked about “the most
gratifying increase in demand” and “the
steady flow of orders now being
received”. The prestressed concrete slabs
have been found ideal for the roofing
of grain silos. Some of the special con-
crete products include the pipe line
supports used in the BP refinery at
Westernport Bay.
Turning to the other activities, he
mentioned that sales in the heater division
had risen 35 p.c. in the first four months.
This not only included domestic heaters
but also heaters used in industry.
Television equipment sales to both new
national and commercial television
stations were expected to be 40 p.c.
higher in the current year. Also the
prospects for television in industry were
promising. A more moderate but never-
theless impressive increase of 20 p.c. has
been shown by Leitz microscopes in the
first four months. Tape recorders and
projectors should also pull their weight
in the current year.
If, after a run down like this, the
company doesn’t show a reasonable profit
for this year, the shareholders could
justly be very critical at the next meeting.
Barring such an event, the shares must
prove a recovery situation at 3s. the
price at which I bought 600.
No sales this week. I was hoping New
Guinea Goldfields would move up with
the current uncertainty about gold.
President Johnson upset my calculations
by strongly denying any possibility of an
increase in the price of gold. This does
not remove the fact that gold stocks in
America have fallen heavily. If this
state of affairs continues, the Americans
might be forced into a revaluation. So
gold shares are still worth watching.
Transactions for the week were:
BOUGHT
200 King Island Scheelite, 15/9 . £l6l
600 Pyrox, 3/- £96
The balance in the account comes
down to £959.
The portfolio is as follows:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
200 Eric White 1/12/64 21/9 21/
500 Conquip 1/12/64 9/2 10/-
500 Kolotex 1/12/64 15/- 16/
2000 Westralian 1/12/64 2/9 3/1
200 Anderson Meat 8/12/64 28/- 29/-
500 NG Goldfields 15/12/64 3/9 4/-
200 CSR (short) 6/1/65 70/6 68/6
1000 United Telecasters
(put option) 6/1/65 11/- 10/
200 King Is. Scheelite 12/1/65 15/9 15/9
600 Pyrox 12/1/65 3/- 3/-


8% per annum short
term on an issue at par (£100) of
£250,000 of Debenture Stock and
Unsecured Notes. Three-year term
on Unsecured Notes, five-year
term on Debenture Stock. Interest
paid quarterly. Trustees for the
debenture stockholders and
unsecured noteholders: Perpetual
Custodians Limited, 33-39 Hunter
Street, Sydney, and P.T. Limited,
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Applications can be accepted only
on the form of application
referred to in, and attached to,
a printed copy of the prospectus
which may be obtained from all
members of the Stock Exchange, or
from Direct Acceptance
Corporation Limited (Established
1926). Directors: J. W. Douglass
(Chairmaxi), F. E. Jones,
W, J. Farram.
DIRECT ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION
LIMITED
Interocean House, 261 George St.,
Sydney. 27-8611
MSN669M
SECURITY ANALYSIS
On BHP’s Loss of Glamor
Some surprise judgments in market rating
IY/Tile the Broken Hill Proprietary Co.
Ltd may not be the investment
“glamor” stock that it was at the begin-
ning of the ’sixties, it is still well enough
known to warrant frequent references in
the Press These references can be many
and varied, ranging from comments on
investment performance to prognostica-
tions on the next type of activity that the
company will undertake. In such circum-
stances it would seem supeifiuous to
add to the already dense mass of “litera-
ture , but this article has been originally
prompted by the recent drop in price to
near 50s.
Once more this drop in price has been
attributed to “American selling”. On
this and presumably other occasions the
sellers would appear to have lost some-
where between 25 p.c. and 30 p.c. of
their 1961 investment. This does not
suggest a “growth” stock. What has
happened in the last three years that has
caused such a change in the market
rating of the shares?
There can be no question that BHP
has deen down-graded, for when the
share lists are examined it is found that
many stocks are selling at a lower divi-
dend yie i d tha n BHP? While dividend
yield may not be any criterion, it is at
j east a starting point to examine the
situation. In a portfolio I examined
recently there were four stocks which
had a lower dividend yield than BHP.
At the time of the examination, prices
and dividend yields, and the dividend
growth records, were as follows:
Las! Dividend Dividend Growth
Sale Yield 1960 = 100
Stock Price % 1961 1962 1963 1964
BHP 51/6 3.2 109 117 139 152
AWA 30/3 2.6 87 87 100 100
Repco 26/3 2.9 102 123 158 158
Myer Emp. 35/4 2.3 116 137 137 137
J. Fairfax 33/- 2.6 115 122 126 126
(The dividend growth record has been
prepared in the normal fashion and takes
into account the growth in dividend in-
come that can accrue from a rights issue
as well as the growth that occurs from
a bonus issue and from an increase in
the dividend rate itself.)
It has been suggested elsewhere that
the management of BHP became con-
cerned in 1962 to change the corporate
image of the company in the eyes,
mainly, of USA investors. One of the
methods employed was to slow the rate
of dividend increases. The declared
rates of dividend do not. of course, give
any indication of the “rate of dividend
advance”, since the rate has been reduced
in some years following cash and bonus
issues. If the adjustments I have
mentioned before are made over the last
eight years, the nominal and adjusted
rates in terms' of pence per share (BHP’s
usual way of declaring its dividend)
would be as follows:
1957 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
Nominal 24.0 22.0 20.0 21.0 13.5 15.0 17.0 18.5
Adjusted 9.1 10.3 10.8 12.7 13.4 15.0 17.0 18.5
The percentage increase over each two-
year period since the beginning of this
series has been as follows:
1957/9 1958/60 1959/61 1960/2 1961/3 1962/4
19 23 24 18 27 23
These figures hardly suggest any
change in dividend policy. It is fairly
clear, though, that there has been a
change in the policy of financing capital
expenditure.
Prior to 1962, funds had been raised
by rights issues at par, such that the
funds became available in January, 1957;
February, 1958; September, 1958; June,
1959; December, 1959; August, 1961
and December, 1961. However, it is
often overlooked that BHP had also
raised during this period nearly £l7
million in fixed interest loans. The
change that took place in 1962 was in
the source and the size of the fixed
interest borrowings for, whereas these
raisings had been made privately before-
hand and averaged just over £5 million
per annum, nearly £3l million was raised
in 1962 by public subscription. It is
also true that the funds provided by
retained profits and depreciation pro-
visions increased sharply by over 60 p.c.


■
With Cessna . . . Connor Shea can
be everywhere almost at once!
(Just one of the reasons they bought a Cessna aircraft)
They were bringing in the harvest in a dozen different, widely spread farms
almost at the same time. Connor, Shea & Co. Pty. Ltd., Agricultural Machinery
Manufacturers, wanted to see their machinery at work.- Thanks to their Cessna,
they .were right there at harvest time on various farms scattered throughout
Western Australia, South Australia and Victoria.
Connor, Shea & Co. Pty. Ltd. say they wouldn’t be without their Cessna. Not
only does it enable the company to be in the right place at exactly the right time,
it also speeds up sales and allows them to give on-the-spot service to their
equipment. In the words of one of their directors, “In two days we accomplished
what would have normally taken a full week by motor vehicle. Furthermore, we
saved considerable time because we were able to-land right on every farm we
wished to visit.”
This kind of service brings added invaluable prestige to the company and
makes yet another success story for the magnificent Cessna.
Perhaps a Cessna is just what your company needs for economy reasons and
to speed up sales and service? It costs nothing for a Cessna consultant to call
and discuss your needs.
REX AVIATION LIMITED
R 47
™m>r x*-
•s
■ <** , .
sfWjfc&sar «£r'-'snp. iraft-gjiiinialAVfrto -~~ :
mWMmB
»v.. V* .
P.O. Box 51,
Bankstown, N.S.W.
Telephone 70 0661..
This increase occurred from the 1959-60
year to 1960-61 year, so the decision
must have been made in mid-1961 at
the very latest, but probably rather
earlier.
There can be no doubt that BHP has
chosen to provide the bulk of the funds
necessary for its capital expansion pro-
gramme from retained profits. The
average annual retention from 1960-61
to 1963-64 inclusive was about £35.5
million and in the preceding four years
this average was about £21.7 million.
During this whole eight-year period,
approximately 58 p.c. of net profit before
tax, depreciation and interest on fixed
loans has been retained. This is cer-
tainly a higher rate than most other com-
panies and so far as the companies
mentioned at the beginning of this article
are concerned the rate has been:
AWA: not ascertainable over whole period; over
last three years has exceeded 40%
RTepco: 36%
Myer Emporium: 27%
John Fairfax: 30%
It is interesting to note that, if BHP’s
retention rate was reduced by half, to
29 p.c., the earning rate would be just
about doubled.
All this could lead to a lengthy dis-
cussion on what constitutes “earnings”.
It is now clear that the company cer-
tainly does not agree that the Tax Com-
missioner’s concept is the right one.
Personally, I do not think that this aspect
is very important when the dividend
policy has been so clearly defined and it
is apparent that profits on even the most
conservative basis are sufficient even now
to allow a continuation of this policy
for at least another six years. There
would be few Australian companies
which have increased their dividends to
shareholders at the average compound
rate of nearly 11 p.c. per annum.
Despite this generous rate of increase,
it seems likely that the dividend pay-out
could be increased in the future, if only
because the company feels obliged to
concede something to the pressure that
is being brought to bear. Of course, it
is possible that the concessions may take
the form of a reduction in steel prices,
thereby reducing the total disclosed
profit. The future trends in world steel
prices can only be guessed at and it is
fair to say that Australian prices have
increased at a faster rate than else-
where in recent years. The margin, how-
ever, is still in BHP’s favor and the
benefits of more efficient steel-making
techniques have not yet been felt.
With all the doubts that are currently
being cast on BHP's future growth, I find
it very difficult to believe that the other
four companies I have mentioned have
brighter prospects. They certainly do
not have a better past history. This
makes it rather surprising that they
should be priced so much higher.


THE MAN ON THE LAND
Wheat and the EEC
Making the Brussels agreement work
VTo sooner had the European Common
Market grain agreement been an-
nounced than prophets of doom were
predicting that France would shut out
Australia from the Red China wheat
market.
To say that these predictions are pre-
mature is putting it mildly. The EEC
has its grain agreement. It has yet to
make it work.
Salvador de Madariaga it was who
made the apt comment that, while
de Gaulle makes much of the “speed
the plough” philosophy, he does so only
because it is a means of achieving his
wider political ambitions in Europe. The
Brussels agreement on grain prices justi-
fies this view of de Gaulle's motives.
Out of it, by 1970, should come a
Europe self-sufficient in wheat. But a
Europe (that is The Six—France, West
Germany, Italy, Holland, Belgium and
Luxembourg) bursting at the seams with
huge surpluses of wheat is another thing
altogether. What many of the observers
here missed altogether was the section
of the Brussels agreement relating to
West German wheat production. It was
West German resistance which was hold-
ing up the political viability of the EEC.
Now Germany is in.
The common EEC price for wheat
(about £A44 a ton for soft wheat, with
premiums up to £65 for hard) does not
come into effect until 1967. The price
is still too low, by about 15 p.c., for
West Germany’s industrious though
land-hungry and under-mechanised far-
mers to make wheat-growing a paying
proposition.
So between now and 1970 the Bonn
Government will pay out to farmers
compensation totalling some £A2SO mil-
lion to phase out uneconomical wheat
production. After 1970, the West Ger-
man wheat subsidies are to cease, so
presumably the German farmers will
turn to other avenues. West German
wheat needs will be supplied by France.
Most of the increased French produc-
tion of wheat seems more than likely to
be absorbed within Europe, in fact.
French farmers need a price of about
£3B a ton for soft wheat to stay com-
fortably in business. The premiums for
hard are relative, as they imply different
costs of production under European
conditions.
Much can happen between now and
1967—when the new prices come into
operation—and more can happen be-
tween now and 1970 —w'hen the results
should be showing in production figures.
For one thing the West German farmers
could use their influence to try to tip
the present Bonn Government out of
office and obtain promises from a new
Government for subsidies beyond 1970.
There is an election in West Germany
in 1965. For another thing, de Gaulle
may die.
Neither eventuality would necessarily
mean that the Brussels agreement would
go up in the air. Yet each illustrates
the point that the EEC has yet to make
its farm programme work. The whole
tenor of the Brussels agreement sug-
gests strongly that all the participants
are more interested in the political and
industrial potentialities of the EEC than
the farming potential. The oft-quoted
de Gaullism, “France will be restored
to her position as the granary of
Europe”, may be accepted strictly as a
de Gaullism. Certainly she may well
become the main European supplier,
but the Roman legions marched away
a long, long time ago. Bread is but
part of the staff of life in the 20th cen-
tury.
quantities of wheat which France
A does export at present (300,000 tons
to China last year) impose a pretty severe
strain on her transport and shipping
facilities, which must give priority to
industrial movements. Even moving
sufficient wheat from France to supply
all of Germarty’s requirements will pose
some problems.
France could probably increase ex-
ports a little, though huge, massive
exports would so disrupt rail, road and
shipping systems within Europe that a
point would be reached where it would
be cheaper to let the wheat rot in the
fields than give it to the Chinese, or the
Indians or anyone else.
Australia, by comparison, is in an
entirely different position. It is not a
unique position. Canada, the Argen-
tine, and possibly Rumania and Hun-
gary, have similar advantages. These
advantages are large acreages, compara-
tively cheap production costs, and com-
paratively unfettered transport and
shipping systems able to move the wheat.
By a wonderful coincidence the Aus-
tralian wheat harvest comes down to the
seaboard over the Christmas-New Year
holiday period, when demands on rail
trucks, and rail space, are not so great
from industry. In any case our indus-
trial complex is small. The Australian
farmer can make wheat pay very well
at about £26 a ton and the Australian
rail, storage and elevator costs are the
lowest in the world. Therefore we, along
with Canada, the Argentine and some
other countries, can sell wheat overseas
at a profit.
France has no hope of selling over-
seas at a real profit, only at cut prices
which are better than complete loss.
There is a very important difference
here. It extends beyond mere economics
into the attitudes of the planners and
the organisers. If there is a profit in-
volved, enthusiasm, alacrity and human
endeavor are stimulated. If there’s no
profit, then it is quite amazing how
lethargy and diffidence creep in. The
difficulty (and the expense) the United
States experiences in organising free
wheat shipments to India and other
places is a good illustration.
By 1970 it is likely that we will lose
the small West German market we have
had for our wheat. The United States will
almost certainly lose her European out-
let for wheat (about £AIBO million last
year).
As French farmers plant more acre-
age to wheat, in anticipation of the 1967
guaranteed prices, France may have
something more than 300,000 tons a
year to sell to China. But beyond that
we should not be too despondent.
Nothing that has happened within the
EEC removes the biggest threat to our
Red China market (13 million tons for
1964-65). That is the very uncertainty
of the Red China market itself. No
country has a firm order from China
beyond 1965 and is unlikely to get one.
To suggest, therefore, that France will
shut us out from the Red China market
by 1970 is purely speculative because,
for all we know, there may not be any
Red China market in 1970. This is a
risk which is pretty well understood by
the Australian wheatgrower and the
Australian Wheat Board which acquires
his crop and disposes of it. It has
always existed and we have learned to
live with it.
Everyone knows there will be prob-
lems associated with the disposal of the
current bumper crop. Canada, the
Argentine and France also have had
good crops during 1964. Over and
above these problems is the stark fact
that half the world has plenty and half
the world starves.
The EEC Brussels agreement has
caused a certain amount of jubilation in
that the way is now seen clear for the
EEC to become a working partner in


Pick a> poticJtf
LIKE AN
EXTRA MILD TOBACCO?
Then ask for Amphora
in the Brown Pouch
■ ■■
: ■
II
PREFER A
MILD AROMATIC?
Then try Amphora Aromatic
in the Blue Pouch
FOR A: _
FULL AROMATIC!
Choose Amphora Full Aromatic
in the Red Pouch
There’s a choice of
three fine Amphora pipe
tobaccos all cool
smoking —so there is
one to suit you. Amphora
is an imported tobacco!
A PRODUCT OF DOUWE EGBERTS ROYAL FACTORIES, UTRECHT, HOLLAND
SA'l4 :
the Kennedy Round of tariff talks.
Instead of backsliding and bogging-
down, we may now hope to see real
results from the Kennedy Round.
If so, we have little to fear. If by
some miracle France did produce enor-
mous surpluses, and tried to dump them
at cut-rate prices, Australia would have
a case to put up against unfair French
competition at the Kennedy Round con-
ferences.
Is there a nagging thought here that
all is not as it should be? There is.
The jubilation expressed in Brussels,
Paris and Cologne, and in London alsp
over the infusion of vigor now likely at
the Kennedy Round talks, does not
seem to have been echoed quite so
readily in Washington.
It can only be hoped that the United
States, architect of the Kennedy Round,
will take the same broad view over the
loss of wheat sales to Europe that West
Germany has taken over the costly
phasing out of home-grown wheat. And
that de Gaulle does not regard the
Kennedy Round as some kind of Anglo-
Saxon plot.
But logically the EEC aim must be
self-sufficiency of wheat rather than the
status of a vast wheat exporter. Costs
dictate this contention.
If inflation, by 1967, should cause
the Australian guaranteed price (to the
grower) to go too much beyond about
£26 a ton, that will be the time to
worry about French competition. At
that price we can be quite confident of
underselling French wheat, fairly and
squarely, to China, which is currently
paying about £3O a ton (an educated
guess, as the Wheat Board does not
make the exact Chinese prices public).
Even should France be able to give
the Chinese longer time to pay (by no
means a certainty considering the overall
funds that must be required to make
the EEC programme function smoothly),
she will still —at £44 a ton home
guaranteed price—be exporting to re-
trieve a loss rather than make a profit.
There’s a risk (for us), perhaps, in
the EEC agreement —though no more
than that. There’s always a risk, of
one kind or another, in the growing of
wheat.
Primary Produce and Cut Prices
Section 92 comes under fire again
HRhere is a movement under way to
have Section 92 of the Federal
Constitution amended to prevent pri-
mary produce being sold interstate at
cut prices. At the moment the move-
ment is not well organised but is cer-
tain to become much better organised
once it gets going properly. It seems to
have been initiated simultaneously in
both Victoria and NSW. There is pro-
bably a common source.
Strangely, the main voices raised so
far have come from producers’ boards,
not from producers’ organisations where
normally this kind of thing might be
expected. The boards concerned with
the marketing of dairy products, canned
fruits, dried fruits, eggs and wheat
appear to favor amendment of Section
92. Those concerned with the market-
ing of apples and pears, meat, wine, and
honey are non-committal.
Wool is not marketed through any
board (not yet, anyway). Meat is not
a controlled commodity within Australia
but the Australian Meat Board does
have some marketing powers related to
the selling of meat for export. It can
act as a purchasing agent to supply meat
to an overseas market which may be
considered worthy of development but
which does not present immediate
prospects for private exporters.
One woolgrowers’ organisation, the
Graziers’ Association of Victoria, has
come out strongly against the plan to
amend Section 92. Yet another wool-
growers’ organisation, the Australian
Primary Producers’ Association, has
expressed a view that Section 92 should
be amended.
What has happened so far is that the
Australian Dairy Board has sent a letter
to the eight marketing boards and to
the Australian Wool Board, which does
not control wool marketing yet, which
obviously has some weight. Should the
reserve price plan come into operation,
then the Wool Board, through the re-
serve price plan’s marketing authority,
could become a marketing board. It
would not be exactly like the others
though there would be important simi-
larities.
The Dairy Board has asked the other
boards to consider the proposals with a
view, ultimately, of putting a case before
the Prime Minister, possibly in Febru-
ary. The Dairy Board’s letter suggests
that Parliament should have power to
make laws, for submission to a poll of
primary producers, of proposed plans
for the organised marketing of primary
products. Parliament should have the
power to decide who gets the vote, how
the polls should be run, and so on.
The letter further suggests that, if
three-fifths of producers of any primary
product want a marketing plan, then
Parliament should pass the necessary
laws to bring it into operation.
It is fairly obvious why dairy, canned
fruits, dried fruits, eggs and wheat in-
terests would like to see interstate
trading, and price-cutting abolished.


ST. VINCENT'S HOSPITAL
Victoria Parade, Fitzroy, N. 6.
General Training School for Nurses.
Applications are invited from Registered
General Nurses for appointment as
SISTER TUTOR
Sister Tutor Diploma preferred.
Apply in writing to MOTHER RECTRESS.
ANCESTRY TRACED
Historical research can help you to discover your
British ancestors. Total outlay of £A3S brings
professional reoort with documents.
BROOKS & SIMPSON
GENEALOGISTS
5 Fenchurch Street, London, E.C.3.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: CHRISTOPHER JOSEPH SIMPSON. TAKE
NOTICE that ROSINA SIMPSON has filed a
Petition No 2911 A of 1964 for divorce on the
ground of desertion. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce Regis-
try. Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney on or before the 2nd day
of March, 1965, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from A. G. KNOX,
Solicitor, of 55 Market Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: LAURENCE ALBURY BYRNE. TAKE
NOTICE that MAVIS IRENE BYRNE has filed
a Petition No. 2513 of 1964 for divorce on the
grounds of desertion and separation. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the 3rd day of March. 1965, and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
A. G. KNOX, Solicitor, of 55 Market Street,
Sydney. C A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE ESTATE of ANNIE CHRISTINA
HINKLEY who died at Leeton on the Twenty-
fifth day of September One thousand nine
hundred and sixty. Would anyone knowing
the whereabouts of ALBERT FREDERICK
HINKLEY (also known as Robert John
Tallent) last known address 3 Lavidge Street,
Hawthorne, Victoria, 1959 please contact the
estate Solicitors. MESSRS. RYALL, CLARK
& GRESSIER of 34 Kurrajong Avenue,
leeton.
The “loss-leader” lines in the super-
markets are the answer.
You can buy Victorian eggs in Sydney
cheaper than the NSW Egg Board
prices. You can buy South Australian
eggs in Melbourne cheaper than the
Victorian Egg Board prices. The same
goes for dried fruits and canned fruits.
The dairy aspect is something new
and may be the most significant deve-
lopment in dairying in years. The astute
shopper will not have failed to notice
the new brands of butter which have
been appearing in recent months and
which can usually be bought for 4s. 9d.
or 4s. lOd. against the regular brands
at ss. You can buy them pretty well
anywhere at the stores, even in the
suburbs of all the major cities. Most
of these brands are interstate butter.
The boards which are non-committal
about the move to have Section 92
amended appear to take this attitude
simply because there is nothing much in
it for them. Only the grazier section of
the woolgrowers appears really opposed
(specifically the Victorian and NSW
Graziers’ Associations).
A Victorian rural paper, closely linked
with the Graziers, says it is a movement
largely initiated by “bureaucrats”. It sees
Section 92 as a barrier against socialism.
It makes a very good point, also, that
“the fear complex which w'as born in
the years of the acute depression in the
’thirties still persists among sections of
primary industry”. In other words, too
many people in primary industry think
they are always going broke and want
more and more bureaucratic boards to
guarantee high prices.
This view, like so many emanating
from the Graziers, may be intrinsically
correct. Yet, right or wrongly, the facts
must be faced. And the facts are pretty
plain.
The numbers are on the side of wel-
farism, the service State, and producers’
protective boards. The move to have
Section 92 amended will gain ground
and much more is likely to be heard
about it.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 831
ACROSS
I—Where there’s many a Tasmanian lover’s tune to be
composed. (10)
s—Menagerie (and its capital) to proceed in jet-age
style. (4)
9—How to deal with a bumper alternative, criminally
authored? (2, 4,2, 2,5)
11— Is postal matter seen by one located by a region
in the Near East. (8)
12— Decoration neatness in command. (5)
15— Phoebus, for example, is backing a class in natural
history. (5)
16— Aspirate dropped by the Irish girl. (4)
17—Father giving salt to an Arts
graduate. (4)
20 — Coward because there isn’t
any electric light (4)
21— Keen to change a joint. (4)
22 — French city which is heart-
sick? (5)
24—Resembling Jolson and Isaac.
(5)
26—A fabric clue affected by the
box-office. (6)
29 An orchestra with guns beside
its important source of club
revenue. (3-5. 7)
30— German city having like
alterations. (4)
31— Wasn’t mum to be busy with
the razor item in a carpen-
ter’s kit? (10)
DOWN
1 — In the air fetching the man-
ner of one’s early develop-
ment. (10)
2 He-men give heart to urgent
outspokenness. (9)
3 Most capacious marsupial
times are disorderly. (8)
4 Swells distinguishing the loom
from the blooms. (4)
6 One ounce is at first enough
for the best oxygen love
region. (5)
7 Shark parent having some
striking success. (4)
8— Invitation to a batsman not
to get the middle letter of it.
(5)
10—Views vegetables seen about
a factor in calculating circles
or one circle with wings. (8)
13— It’s set to blast one’s future.
(4-4)
14— Cafe suites including one
aspect on children suggesting
a make-up remover. (4-6)
18— Delivery to Ireland with a
dancer. (9)
19 — Incorrect clasping qualifica-
tions for collecting turf prize-
money. (8)
23 —Perform a flanking move,
lady! (5)
25 —European city overlord. (5)
27 — Navigator giving firm ap-
proval. (4)
28— No lady parliamentarian of
fibre. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 830


HP
w
w i.
W,
m
m
m
'
m
.
m
9 m
m
/
.
dLg
im
r
l
«*
a&<
■
Hi
I
4
it
/1
, v
*
Make sure of
receiving your
Bulletin regularly
SUBSCRIPTIONS: 26 weeks £2/12/- Australian, £2/2/- Sterling and N.Z.;
52 weeks £4/4/- Australian, £3/7/- Sterling and N.Z. Send dollar equivalents
to New York and Malaysian offices.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please tick \J whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? □ or
A renewal subscription?
Post this coupon to THE BULLETIN, Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney; OR Box 965,
G.P.0., Wellington, New Zealand; OR Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London; OR Australian Consolidated Press Ltd., 229 West
43rd Street, New York, N.Y.; OR Marican & Son, P.O. Box 985, Kuala Lumpur,
Malaysia.
New Zealand readers may receive the Air Freighted edition at £2/12/- New
Zealand for 26 issues, £4/4/- New Zealand for 52 issues.


•• •
3
■
m :
Vm
W - 1 —
;
:
i
Ejar*. 3§|§gSj§raflgi|^
t ■
IfiPijTSsi^; JUjf £§@ll
;;.
L : -v"-. :■' '"'
Hi
HHiii t
fUmumßm
:
m-
mm^
I
asaai*!
•* \ *
o
#
k
it
Rg
P!?w
<
/>
<*
Lil
liil
w
to
o
cn>
«£ \
w*
/. A
O
Enjoying: life with craven filter
People who get most enjoyment from life get most enjoy-
ment in a cigarette from Craven Filter. Buy a pack today
and discover for yourself that Craven Filter are better
than ever.
CRAVEN
FILTER
Better than ever!
