

The Bulletin
[ASIAN FESTIVAL—COLOR PORTFOLIO
OCTOBER 23, 1965
I all ■
- • 4|
1 ' >
H 9
II i : 4 . oil ' ]
■ M
m ’ i SHI ■
1 1 * %* r |a ■ 1
it Ml
Jj | I - v
e gistered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Australia 2/-, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l, Malaysia $1


"\*ii
lIS
:
m
H
»
1
i
I
'
S
I
'it*
1%
“NY LEX" Vinyl Wall Covering Manufactured by Moulded Products (Australasia) Limited
Geon brings textured beauty to walls
This new vinyl wall covering will look just as
new in ten years time. Coating made with
Geon P.V.C. covers a fabric base allowing
the vinyl wall covering to take heavy
punishment without damage or scuffing
Manufactured in a large range of contempor-
ary patterns and colours, this covering is
an architect’s dream washable, fade-
resistant, easily applied to any surface, and
best of all, seams are not easily seen. In
industry throughout the world, Geon leads
the way improving products and developing
new ones. Have you a product we can help
improve or develop?
Goodrich^
B.F.GOODRICH C.S.R. CHEMICALS FTY. LTD. Enquiries to G.P.O. Box No.23s,DeptA,Melb.
MSB39


■
)
>
Who pulled the Reserve Bank job?
The “haul” included 1,000 desks . . .
2,500 chairs . . . 300 filing cabinets
. . . 40 safes . . . 200 storage units
. . . 700 individual “personnel car-
tons” . . . etc. . . . etc. . . .
ANSWER: Using as many as 70
skilled men ... 18 pantechnicons
a number of armed guards . . . and
all sorts of technical equipment . . .
IN 48 HOURS GRACE BROS. RE-
MOVALS PERFORMED ONE OF THE
BIGGEST OFFICE MOVES IN AUST-
RALIA. GRACE BROS. MOVED THE
RESERVE BANK OF AUSTRALIA!
$400,000 (the bank thinks decimal)
worth of furniture and equipment
moved about three hundred yards.
That’s right. Just across the street.
It wasn’t easy; Grace Bros. Re-
movals will tell you that. But no
moving job is “easy.” Each job
requires careful thought, planning
and special equipment. If it’s a
really BIG job—across the street, or
across the world —call Grace Bros.
The Bank job included moving two
plastic coated “ears of wheat” that
had been used as models for bank
notes! Get the idea? Grace Bros,
don't specialise in “big” jobs or
“small” jobs. They specialise in
moving! Why did we tell you about
the big job first? Everybody likes
to brag a little.
GRACE BROS REMOVALS
Sydney 2-0946 • Melbourne 48-7316 • Brisbane 5-4631 • Adelaide
63-1181 • Perth 24-5477 • Canberra 9-0234 • Hobart 34-3988 •
Newcastle 2-4302 * Townsville 94411 • Lismore 2265 • Murwillumbah 133
The Bulletin
Established 1880
OCTOBER 23, 1965.
VOL. 81, No. 4469
the legend of
MARLENE DIETRICH
A midnight supper with the last of
Ihe great diseases 41
the drifters
Predicting who will become
criminals 22
PATTERSON OF THE
NORTH
The man who was transferred .... 30
RHODESIA’S IAN SMITH
Playing close to the chest 34
TANNER 12 LETTERS 39
BATMAN 33
THIS AUSTRALIA
Waterfront: The new recruits 14
fcanomy: From sunshine to rain .... 15
Solicitors: The old guard 17
New Guinea: The Moresby strikes 18
OVERSEAS
Where the Africans know their
place 34
Congo: WithouC Tshorn be 36
New York Newsletter 37
f
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
The Pageant of Asia Spectacular .... 40
ART: Photography without
preaching 46
'THEATRE: Krapp’s Last Tape .... 48
! FILMS: The Easy Life 49
RECORDINGS: Black Velvet 50
(BOOKS: In Excited Reverie 52
Aunts Up the Cross 53
BUSINESS & FINANCE
-
Company problems for “C” Day .... 57
The crayfishing industry 60
Cellarmaster 64
man on the land
The changing reserve price debate 62
Editorial Office: 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


THE TWO "TONIGHT SHOWS" A TOTAL UNDUMJCATI
AUDIENCE OF
389,000 ADULTS
TUESDAY
NIGHT®
ONE AUDIENCE
THURSDAY
IWg ■ fIUR
Hr m m IUI mm m m
A DIFFERENT AUDIENCE
ii|p^
m
w
a
CHANNEL 9 enjoys competition even to the point of
competition between audiences for the two “Tonight
Shows.” Both shows have the same format, the same
inimitable Don Lane, and they go on air at the same time
yet out of the gross total audience for the week of
502,000 adults, there’s a net unduplicated audience of
389,000 adults. Put it another way: advertising on only
one of the two nights, you reach a large slice of the
population —and you miss another large slice that you
would have reached had you advertised pn both nights.
That's the kind of big, unduplicated, adult audience you
expect from a television station that believes free
competition means better television for viewers and
advertisers.
The above figures were specially prepared for Channel 9 by The
Anderson Analysis Pty. Ltd. by a re-analysis of their Sydney Television
Audience Survey No. 6, 1965.
FOR A BREAKDOWN OF THE DAILY VIEWING PATTER
AND OTHER PERTINENT FACTS, CONTACT YOI
LOCAL TCN 9 REPRESENTATIVE.
Channel
9
#
%
Studio and transmitter at Artarmon Road, Willoughby. 43-0444.
Sales—Sydney: Ist Floor, Cricket House, George Street. 27-2881.
Melbourne: 247 Collins Street. 63-8336.
viM'i


SAVING
AS WELL AS SELLING
OVERSEAS is vital to Australia
Associated Pulp and Paper Mills does both, and this
Australian-owned company is a large contributor to the economy and
prosperity of Australia.
In 1938, for the first time in the world, printing and writing
papers were produced at Burnie from short-fibred Eucalypt pulp.
Today, more than 3,000 people are producing some
100,000 tons annually to supply most of Australia's requirements
in fine papers. There are ‘‘Burnie” and “Ballarat” papers
for personal stationery, Government usage, school exercise and
text books, printing, publishing and special wrapping.
This local production effects a very substantial saving in imports
and so conserves Australian overseas funds. To further assist
the nation's trade balance, large tonnages of “Burnie” and
“Ballarat”’ papers are exported to South East Asia and other
foreign markets.
Constant quality control, intensive product research and the skill
of Australian workers ensure that the “Burnie” and “Ballarat” brands
rank as world-quality papers.
ASSOCIATED PULP AND PAPER MILLS LIMITED
Mills at Burnie, Tasmania, and Ballarat, Victoria.
Offices at Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
<s>
O
s • '
m


"
now!!!!!!
maximum
security
right at
your
fingertips
WITH
i
SPECIAL
KEYING
SYSTEMS
~
I
MK-A
|j|||
Al.
!•■?*> I
A 2.
’Jj/
A 3.
A 4.
AS.
’A3.
MASTER-KEYED SYSTEMS
A Master-Keyed System is one in which each
.lock has its own individual key, which oper-
ates that lock only and no other, but where
each lock is also built to a Master-Key which
will open all locks in the group.
Within a Master-Keyed System, if required,
certain locks may be grouped in a section
Keyed-Alike to a given Service-Key, and still
subject to. the Master-Key.
ifcMK
—, 1
.|mk-a
I MK-B
f— r-f-
MK-C
m® & ©
f A». A 2. A3l 81. 82. 83. Cl. C2.‘ C 3. |
A3.i|| CI.O |
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which
operates that lock only and no other, but the
locks are divided into two or more groups.
Each group is subject to its own Master-Key,
which opens all locks in that group, but no
other group.
However, all locks are also subject to a
Grand Master-Key which opens all locks in
all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike
groups may also be included in G.M.K. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM YOU
NEED CARRY ONLY ONE KEY
INSTEAD OF HUNDREDS!
REPLACING INSECURITY
AND CONFUSION WITH
MAXIMUM SECURITY.
MAXIMUM CONVENIENCE!
In industry and commerce today a Lockwood MK System is an essential pre-
requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade and
Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part of the
building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are held
on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries —enabling quick
replacement of lost keys or damaged locks “true to code”, and allowing absolute
control of additions or extensions to the systems.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss Master-
Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty. Limited
at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention. manufactured in Australia by
LOCK UP
WITH
N.Z. Agent: G. D- LITTLE LTD.
Wellington and Auckland.
New Guinea Agent: CARL F. RADKE
AGENCIES, Port Moresby.
Ogden Industries
PTY. LIMITED
Melbourne: 569 0611 • Sydney:
56 3191, 56 3114, 56 3166, 56 3186
Brisbane: 7 3047 • Canberra:
4 4098 • Adelaide: 8 2153
Perth: 23 2214 • Hobart: 3 3141
Launceston: 2 1441
Agents also in Kenya, Uganda, Tanganyika, South Africa, The Rhodesias, Malaysia, The Philippines, Hong Kong,
Thailand, Indonesia.


AMOCO CUTS COSTS FOR
AUSTRALIAN FORWARDING AGENCY
m
r
.
■
II
M
■'ys
m
mm
m
.•- : •/
-<:• .... v
Big transport company learns IT'S NICE GOING WITH AMOCO
AMOCO
OILS, FUELS & TECHNICAL SERVICE
AMOCO AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
MELBOURNE
34 Queen's Road
Tel. 26*4043
SYDNEY
102/106 Arthur St.
N. Sydney. Tel. 92-0842
BRISBANE
Bulwer island
Tel. 60-4151
ADELAIDE
38/40 Currie St.
Tel. 51-2692
A properly managed Maintenance programme can mean the
difference between the red and black side of the ledger. Australian
Forwarding Agency have switched to Amoco Fuels, Oils and Greases
and are now following the Amoco Maintenance Plan which is really
paying off. John Taylor, AFA's Fleet Controller, says, "We're getting
a much better mileage from all our vehicles and, thanks to Amoco's
recommendation, we have been able to extend our oil change
periods radically. Our drivers report better performance, too, and
they are hard guys to convince."
If you are a user of Fuels, Oils and Greases in any quantity, Amoco
can ofFer you the best products, service and technical assistance
available in Australia. Many Australian companies, large and
small, are making the switch to Amoco. Why not give the Amoco
Industrial Sales Manager a call—let him tell you how Amoco can
serve you.
AFA 1045


From now on:
Mpr t
V 4
■ • : ■>:..v ; '.v'.: ..;■■>
, - ■■■ • ■■ ■ •• ■-•-■■■ •■■-'-“*■■ -- ’
m
m
. i
XvX-:'.
»
; ;&
.
mmwmmmmmm
.
■ ■
aMMHBHwi
. ..,-r^;: ■
? 5i
»:««:■:.< ■ >
simXt'*' 3§!t3my§&? $ll l
—^MS
1
;
■■■
BUS
"'P *", «", „ >w f- * ,
PPgfex
Vvi- -V ' •
: ■' ■ ■ ' : ' '
■BgWMMitegSSaMB
■
.
; v v
m i
V/
£>4
From now on, you can enjoy Philippine Air Lines service to all points East. To Manila.
To Hong Kong. To Taipei. Even to San Francisco. (East from the East!). Thanks to PAL. the
East starts just eight miles out of Sydney. Where PAL flies from Kingsford Smith Airport with
the finest jets aflight. The only way you get extra services like international cooking, not just
food. First-run, in-flight colour movies, not just magazines. Nine music channels (two stereo),
not only conversation. And to top it all Filipina-style personal attention a rare combina-
tion of Eastern manners, Spanish grace, and American savvy. All on the most modern fan jets
flying, giant DCB’s, the smoothest yet. At no extra charge. So jet East best. All the way. With
PAL (that's the one airline that services eight others and serves everyone who flies it!)
imm
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES
For details. PAL flight schedules, and complete Philippines tour
information see your Travel Agent or mail this coupon.
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES Cl- G.S.A. Ansett-A.N.A.
4A Martin Place. Sydney. 489 Swanston Street. Melbourne. Cnr.
Ann St. and North Quay. Brisbane. 140 North Terrace. Adelaide.
98 Williams Street, Perth. 62 Northbourne Avenue, Canberra.
178 Liverpool Street, Hobart. 54 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
Name
Address...,.
Phone
es 43


National Notebook
“The Curse of The Pill ”
Tn the Brennan Hall of St John’s
*■ College in the University of Sydney
hangs a lurid nineteenth-century Aus-
tralian painting of two prospectors,
dying of thirst, entitled “The Curse of
the Gold”. Last week a rather folksy
visiting American psychiatrist delivered
a lecture in that same hall to a captive
audience of priests which might well
have been called “The Curse of the Pill”.
The meeting is an indicator of the
escalation of emotions on the subject in
Church circles.
Out of presumed deference to the
wishes of the Pope against public con-
troversy the - meeting was a closed one
limited to priests invited by Bishop Free-
man, an auxiliary to the absent Cardinal.
The lecturer, Dr F. Ayd, an American
psychiatrist, who lectures in “pastoral
psychology” at the Gregorian University
in Rome, stressed to his audience con-
tinually that he spoke as “a scientist”,
but proceeded to opinions which might
be disputed. For example he assured his
audience that any woman who took the
pill for five years would almost certainly
become sterile.
To the priests, many of whom would
have been shaken by the tart testimony
of their parishioners on the ineffective-
ness of rhythm for a substantial portion
of the population, Dr Ayd offered his
own testimony, based on his twelve
children. Providing people were
“properly motivated” rhythm could work.
The lecture was a quick trot through
the pre-Council cliches on the subject,
but was given the added authority by
the status of the lecturer.
The secret, closed character of the
meeting meant that Dr Ayd could
escape public challenge on his theories
from a number of Catholic doctors and
scientists who would have been only too
glad to go into battle.
His influence on the pastoral work of
the 200 priests is finally a matter for
speculation but the reverberations from
his talk could have opposite effects to
those intended.
So far discussion and debate have been
cautious and restrained in Australia,
unlike overseas. But if speakers are to
be used to give secret anti-pill briefings,
there was talk in the wake of Dr Ayd’s
lecture that there might be more open
debate.
Voices from the Past
Along with “Martin’s Comer,” “Jack
Davey,” “When a Girl Marries,”
one of radio’s most popular attractions of
the ’4os was the quarter-hour nightly,
national ventriloquial act of Mai Verco
and his doll, Ginger. As well as his
there’s a strong temptation to say “their”
radio show, Verco did Tivoli Circuit
tours and a stack of other personal ap-
pearances. Suddenly, in 1950, it all
stopped dead. There was no publicity,
no announcement. Verco and Ginger
just disappeared from sight and action.
Now in Melbourne, Verco is back and so
is a new Ginger. He or they have
so far made one rado and two TV ap-
pearances and loyal old fans have been
badgering the radio station and TV
station which aired them for more.
Frankly, but for the first time, Verco
tells the story of what happened.
In 1950 he started having “blackouts.”
They started in Adelaide, where he was
performing for the Tivoli. They contin-
ued when he returned to Melbourne,
getting worse all the time. In one mem-
ory-lapse period, Verco lost Ginger. To
today, he has no recollection of what
happened to the doll. With this blow he
finally sought psychiatric treatment and,
in all the years since, he has been at
Melbourne's Royal Park mental health
centre first as a patient, more recently
simply as a resident. He also graduated
from patient to editor of the centre’s
magazine for past and present patients
and friends of the centre. Now feeling
fitter and with a new Ginger on his knee,
he plans to return to show business.
“They tell me these stainless steel
blades outlast 15 ordinary blades,
and make them seem old-fashioned
by comparison."
“I’ve been out of it a long time, but
we’re ready now to go back if anyone
wants us,” he says.
Largely for fun, but also because it’s
a natural part of his work, a two-way
conversation with Mai Verco turns into
a three-way one once he gets Ginger out
of his case and sits him on his knee. Ask
Verco something about Ginger and it’s
Ginger who gives the reply himself —•
sorry, itself.
Despite a vigorous letter-writing cam-
paign by fans, the comeback trail might
not be very easy for Verco. However, he
appeared last week on “In Melbourne
Tonight”.
Agony Down Under
An article on the lucky country in the
Rome daily “II Tempo” could only
be entitled “Australia Felix” although
according to the writer, Professor Mario
Praz, who recently visited us, the happi-
ness consists of “the Kantian dream of
perpetual peace become a reality and a
conception of life at kindergarten level”.
The lack of any twinges of the roman-
tic agony in Australia evidently disap-
pointed the famed Roman literary critic.
He uses two incidents to illustrate his
point. On the flight in from Fiji he was
handed a Customs declaration to com-
plete which makes curious reading in a
Rome daily. He links its obsessive
preoccupation with excluding infection
(“in the last three months have you or
one of your family accompanying you
lived on or visited a farm, have you been
in contact with farm animals, have you
visited a slaughter-house or a canned
meat factory? If so, in what countries?”)
with the agitation as he was leaving Aus-
tralia over the Fijian girl who was “ex-
pelled because colored persons are not
allowed to be naturalised”.
Praz found the Australian cities an
image of standardised civilisation where
“there are neither sirs nor servants, but
an even, well-oiled daily routine. In few
other countries is the tenor of life so
high, one day so similar to another, one
person so indistinguishable from another,
the food, conserved in tins or refrigera-
tors, so insipid; and you feel that, libera-
ted as you are here from the weight of
history and of time, and isolated as you
are in space, you find yourself truly at
the still point of the turning world”.
He mentions the suggestion that some
immigration from Asia should be allowed.
Praz remarks that the Romans in their
period of decline mixed with other races
but this did not save them.


s
m
*
mm
.
■Pi
.
ms 2
TW
...■*
£SS3£
REFINING BITUMEN
- Humes Pressure Vessels for Shell.
The Blowing Column, Relief Cyclone and Flashing
Cyclone illustrated on the left are essential
components of the new Shell Bitumen Refinery at
North Fremantle, W.A. They were designed and
manufactured by Humes —Perth. Similar units
are also being supplied by our company for another
Shell Bitumen Plant in Darwin.
Whatever you need in steel —pressure vessels,
pipes 4" to 20 ft. dia., tunnel liners, penstocks,
bulk tankage, ductwork, hoppers, bins, piles
caissons ... our organisation, is geared to meet
your requirements, from planning to final install-
ation.
For steel products alone we have 12 factories
spread from Townsville in the North to Hobart and
and Perth in the South and West. Local manufacture
reduces transport cost. If the contract is large we
combine the resources of several factories to
satisfy your delivery requirements.
These are the reasons why you’ll find Humes hard
to beat —in design, workmanship, price and short-
term delivery. May we have your enquiry?
HfIME
HUMES LIMITED
Head Office: 185 William St., Melbourne, C.l, Victoria, Australia
Phone 600 221
STATE OFFICES
N.S.W.: Park Road, Regents Park. Phone 6442351
VIC.: 12th Floor, 205 William St., Melb. Phone 600221
QLD. : -189 Montague Road, South Brisbane. Phone 45881
S.A.: 78-82 West Beach Road, Keswick. Phone 971011
W.A.: Salvado Road, Subiaco. Phone 872311
TAS.: 76 Liverpool Street, Hobart. Phone 32741


Early Sign Of Christmas
About this time of the year, even
before the shops have dusted off
their aluminium Christmas trees or
shaken the mothballs out of their Santa
suits, many householders get their first
warning of yet another Christmas.
These are the Rehandar Christmas
cards, hopefully sent out by the Associa-
tion of Mouth and Foot Painting Artists,
on an honor system. If you want them
you send payment; if not you post them
back to the association. It is claimed that
every telephone subscriber in the country
receives the cards. Each year about
1,000,000 are sold.
Who, even a generation ago, would
take seriously a suggestion that some-
one without arms could become a
painter? Or someone completely para-
lysed? Today the Association of Mouth
and Foot Painting Artists has a member-
ship of 87 painters, none of whom is able
to paint by the usual method of holding
brush in hand. Six of these are Aus-
; tralians.
It began 13 years ago on the inspira-
tion of a Gerhian artist, Arnulf Erich
Stegmann, who was born at Darmstadt
in 1912 and, as a boy, lost the use of
his hands and arms due to polio. At
school he wrote by holding the pencil
in his mouth. But he was also keen on
painting, holding the brush in his mouth.
Soon his teachers noticed that his paint-
ing was better than his writing. Encour-
aged, he went to art school where he be-
iCame the top pupil and, on leaving
'school, embarked on a career as an ar-
t tist. By the time he was 20 he was hav-
j ing international exhibitions.
! His success inspired other potential
artists similarly handicapped. But they
could not all be as successful as he. The
struggles of some of the others, in turn,
inspired him to do something to help
; them all; he founded the association,
which is today still growing. Basically,
1 the work of the association is to arrange
exhibitions and through sales of greeting
cards help these artists to earn a living. It
also looks after the sale of these ar-
tists’ works and reproduction rights to
print publishers.
From the start, largely because high
' standards were insisted on, the associa-
-1 tion met success. Today exhibitions have
1 been held in countries around the world.
; Some of the European artists have re-
! ceived fees as high as 500 guineas for
j their works. The top Australian fee so
| far is 80 guineas. But most of the money
[ received by the association and its mem-
i bers comes from sales of greeting cards,
! particularly Christmas cards, bearing
■ prints of the artists’ works.
In Australia, the organisation’s leader
is a Dutchman, Mr Alf Kuilboer, who
is neither crippled nor an artist. He is
a printer who came to Australia 12
years ago. He was a compositor and
worked with a newspaper in the Vic-
torian Western District town of Hamil-
ton. In 1956, a relative back in Holland
who was interested in helping disabled
artists wrote to Mr Kuilboer asking
would he start a publishing house to
print cards of the works of these artists.
From that request began in Australia
the production of the greeting cards
carrying paintings by mouth-and-foot
artists that we all see every Christmas.
Mr Kuilboer at first used his own
house as the publishing headquarters. He
called the organisation Rehandar RE-
productions HANDicapped ARtists. As
business grew, he had to move his equip-
ment to the back of a bakehouse; then
another, bigger house; finally he is now
installed in what was once the Hamilton
factory of the Ballarat Brewing Com-
pany. From here go out yearly promo-
tional material and the cards themselves.
As well, the headquarters arrange regu-
lar exhibitions of the works of members
throughout the country. The first of these
was held in 1962 and attracted an esti-
mated 250,000 people when it was held
in the Royal Arcade, Melbourne. The
association contains both members and
student (or scholarship) members. Schol-
arships are awarded by the association
to any handicapped foot or mouth artist
and, after a period as a student —when
their work shows signs of improvement
—they are accepted as full members.
Today Australian members include
men such as Rudy Sarton who arrived
in Australia from Holland in 1958 as
a commercial art student. Within months
he contracted polio, which has left him
paralysed from the chest down. There
is also Roily Marks who broke several
bones in his neck and severed his spinal
cord in a diving mishap while on a picnic
in January, 1962. He, too, was paralysed
from the chest down. Until then he had
no interest or knowledge in art but while
under treatment at Melbourne’s Austin
Hospital he saw another patient painting
with a brush held in his mouth. Roily
decided to “give it a go” himself, soon
developed a definite style and today his
works show his strong, bold, adventurous
spirit.
The artist Roily Marks saw in that
hospital was Bill Mooney who, five years
earlier, had been similarly injured in a
diving mishap. Today his works are sold
throughout the world through the Re-
handar organisation. Another Australian
member is Athol Thompson who had
both arms amputated when he was eight
after touching an electric cable. His
paintings and posters have also won an
international market.
Arthur st
]%/Toving into new offices at 54-58
Park Street last week, The
Bulletin unpacked and rehung its
paintings which had been stacked away
for years. There were paintings of John
Webb, of “Hop”, of W. A. Archibald,
but the one of Archibald stood out. So
it should have: scrutiny showed it to be
by Longstaff, painted in 1901, during his
best period. For The Bulletin it is
priceless, but for artists and others with
a keen interest in such matters the
National Gallery puts its market value
at £5OO.
TRUE COLONIAL PATRIOTS
ffij^uUetu i
80 Years Ago: October 31, 1885
TT may be safely said that the ballot-box
influence possessed by the Orange
lodges of New South Wales is a standing
proof of the unfitness of a section of the
electors to hold and exercise the franchise.
It is more than this. It is incontestable evi-
dence that a portion of the community is
still sunk in that state of civilized bar-
barism which has left upon three centuries
of English history a disgraceful and indel-
jEle stain.
Orange puppets in Parliament agree
upon no one point save their aggressive
and often assumed hatred of the Roman-
ists, and their devotion to Sir Henry
Parkes, to whom the idiotic jealousy of
various sects has been the secret of power
in years past. He has been most powerful
when best able to work any point for
the oppression of the Irish or Romanists.
Look at the infamous 9th clause of the
Treason Felony Act, a measure passed by
Sir Henry and his yellow-sashed follow-
ers, and which is a disgrace to our Con-
stitution, not less than to our legislators,
£y raising a religious cry Sir Henry was
able tQ pass the Education Act by a large
rnctiority and to retain power throughout
‘ *
'
If I s pleaded that unless Orangeism
interposed a barrier, the tyranny of the
Pope would divest Australians of their
rights. This is a slander on our age. Free
men have too much enlightenment and too
great a love of freedom to allow pope,
archbishop, priest, or parson to fetter
them. They know that politics must be
kept free from the dogmas and the pre-
tensions of any sect. Australia for the
Australians is now the thought of every
true colonial patriot.


Tames
"You're entitled to all flotsam and jetsam and any other British rubbish that washes in."


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Natives Are Restless
The Liberals' “running sores”
Pearlier this month the Prime Minis-
ter called a Press conference —
the second since he returned from the
Commonwealth Prime Ministers’ Con-
ference in London. Since that first
meeting with the Press in June, there
have been a number of major inter-
national crises—the secession of Singa-
pore from Malaysia, a war between
India and Pakistan, a coup and
counter-coup in Indonesia, a rebellion
in Rhodesia involving threat of race
war in Africa. There have also been
major national crises—but most not-
ably over the drought and the fall-off
in northern development. The Federal
Government s off-hand approach to
the drought has exhausted the patience
of the Liberal Premier of NSW, R. W.
Askin; its vacillation over the Ord
River scheme has angered the Liberal
Premier of Western Australia,
D. Brand; and the failure to fulfil
commitments in Queensland develop-
ment is expected daily to provoke
Queensland’s Country Party-Lib-
eral Government to join Askin and
Brand in their attacks, especially since
Dr Patterson announced his plans to
leave the Commonwealth Public Ser-
vice and enter Labor politics in
Queensland on a development plat-
form. In Federal administration the
Liberal back-bench complaints about
sloppy and illiberal administration,
about bureaucratic inflexibility and
ministerial arrogance, have continued
not only over the “running sores”
of the IPEC case and reserve price
wool referendum, but over administra-
tion of the Army (unexplained short-
ages of accommodation, of transport,
of replacement parts, and the languish-
ing of the CMF), over the neglect of
the Martin Report and the Vernon
Report, over the continued ministerial
contempt for backbenchers, over a
general sense of drift. There has even
been a breach of Cabinet responsibility
over the reserve price scheme.
Tn the light of all this, one would have
expected the Prime Minister’s first
Press conference since June to examine
and discuss these grave international
and national crises and these serious
criticisms of his Government’s admini-
stration. In fact the Prime Minister
called it for one reason only—because
an overseas Government had made
him a Warden of five English ports.
Last month The Bulletin referred
to the need for a brutal reappraisal of
Federal politics. It said that “at every
turn one has the spectacle of Ministers
who need pulling into line by the
Prime Minister while the Prime Mini-
ster is apparently concerned with less
public concerns”. Since then the
position with the exception of the
able if overdue waterfront legislation
—has deteriorated, but we now know
what has been at least one of the Prime
Minister’s “less public concerns”. How-
ever much the Prime Minister may
feel honored by his English appoint-
ment —and there is a case for regard-
ing it charitably as sort of a private
English-Australian family joke it
has nothing to do with urgent Aus-
tralian problems.
The drought case is especially re-
vealing. The Liberal Premier of
NSW, dealing with one of the worst
droughts in his State’s history, has
written several times to the Federal
Government and finally got a statement
from the Prime Minister which the
Premier said was “of not much use”.
The Prime Minister had referred to
considering “fully and sympatheti-
cally” NSW’s requests later in the
financial year, and in any case NSW
would have access to Treasury bill
finance to which Mr Askin rightly
replied that Treasury bill finance had
to be repaid within a few months and
that NSW needs straight-out grants or
long-term, cheap-interest loans, or
both. Meanwhile, Mr Askin points out
the situation is “worsening rapidly”
and the Minister for Lands had to tell
some settlers that he can hold little
hope of their getting drought relief.
The Federal Government, however,
will consider the matter later in the
financial year!
Liberal backbenchers, such as Mr
H. B. Turner, have made leading and
unanswerable criticisms of the Govern-
ment’s administration. He has accused
the Government of passing tax laws
without serious debate, of “drowning”
the conscription debate, of reducing
the debate on the Martin Repprt to
“a farce” by not giving the Parlia-
ment time to read it. He could have
made similar criticisms of the discus-
sion on the Vernon Report. Yet Mr
Turner’s criticisms were treated with
the same contempt given to other back-
benchers’ criticisms of the handling of
the IPEC matter, where a legalistic
trick was used to undermine I PEC’s
appeal to the Privy Council—an appeal
supported by all believers in free enter-
prise —or of the wool referendum
which will be decided by a rigged elec-
tion. Mr Turner rightly summed up the
experience of backbenchers in this
way: “The fact is that the Ministers
have come to regard Parliament as a
rubber stamp for decisions reached in
the secret recesses of the Establish-
ment, in the departments, and in the
Cabinet room. A Minister is esteemed
for his skill in hoodwinking his back-
bench colleagues in the party room
and for his astuteness in side-tracking
his opponents in the House.”
Tf there were a Federal Opposition
* which the public could take seriously,
there is no doubt public opinion would
swing its way. In fact the ALP is so
tarnished by the neutralist and pro-
Communist leanings of its dominant
Left wing that, if an election were held
tomorrow, the Government, despite all
its weakness, would win it with an qven
larger majority. This simply makes
the sense of drift worse. There is no
alternative government, and the really
effective opposition is provided by an
alliance of State Liberal Premiers such
as Askin, Bolte and Brand and Federal
Liberal backbenchers. This, however,
is no justification for the Federal Gov-
ernment or the Warden of the five
English ports. The need for the Prime
Minister to knock his party and
Cabinet into line, as he has done in
the past, to arrest the drift into ad-
ministrative sloppiness and illiberal ism,
is more urgent now than when he re-
turned from London. For a start he
could do worse than fire one or two of
his incompetent Ministers and call a
real Press conference. The natives are
restless.


THIS AUSTRALIA
WATERFRONT
The New Recruits
Testing- 13
Left to right: W. McMAHON, N. DOCKER, C. H. FITZGIBBON
By JOHN BROCKETT
The Commonwealth hand that so recently struck at the Waterside Workers’
Federation could shortly help provide some of the benefits for waterside workers
that unprecedented industrial action has failed to gain.
Having apparently hobbled the Federa-
tion with its Stevedoring Industry Bill,
the Federal Government intends to also
tackle some of the problems which for
a generation have directly contributed to
the strong Communist influence on the
waterfront. Under scrutiny now (before
the completion of the Woodward In-
quiry) are the questions of permanent
employment and the slovenly and
arrogant methods of some stevedoring
companies and the outmoded port
facilities they work under.
It could be that when the sound and
fury directed towards the Govern-
ment’s recruitment proposals subside,
they will be seen only as a forerunner
to more important and lasting changes.
Within most trade unions there is very
little criticism of the recruitment change
and even within the Federation itself
there are private admissions that the
change had to come. If trouble is to
follow it will be over the provisions to
deregister recalcitrant unions and to
recognise new waterfront unions. This
is seen within the trade union movement
generally as lifting the question of
deregistration from the judicial to the
political level. While the provision is
aimed primarily at the WWF, the
threat it presents is clear to all unions.
Even the extreme Right in the trade
union movement is fearful of the im-
plications of the Government’s newly
extended power to initiate and obtain
the deregistration of the WWF and to
promote "he registration of a new
union. The trade union movement
believes that the Government’s new
authority over the WWF could be a
precedent for moves against any union,
These fears are backed by the reality
of the DLP or NCC’s undoubted
strength in trade unions, particularly
in the fields where the Government is
most likely to be tempted to introduce
its new powers. The DLP or NCC
is seen almost as much a threat to
moderate and Right-wing power blocs
as it is to the Left. The ruling trade
union officials reason that any power
vacuum created by deregistration
would most likely be filled by DLP
or NCC forces.
While the WWF continues to work
within the ACTU at present there
seems no other alternative use of
the deregistration weapon by the
Government is most unlikely. But if it
were invoked the whole trade union
movement would be committed to a
collision with the Commonwealth. If
on the other hand the WWF cuts
itself off from the ACTU and acts
independently it would be left to face
the wrath of the Government alone. In
this delicate situation the actions of
the Federal secretary of the WWF, Mr
C. H. Fitzgibbon, could be decisive. If
he is prepared to give firm leadership
to the Federation in alliance with the
ACTU against those who want to
fight, the collision will not occur and
considerable long-term benefits could
flow to his members.
Fitzgibbon has said that the Federa-
tion will be “absolutely guided” by
the ACTU, but this will have to be
demonstrated in the weeks ahead be-
fore it will carry any weight with the
Commonwealth.
The first test of the WWF’s inten-
tions will come late this week or early
next week when the Stevedoring In-
dustry Authority in Sydney moves to
recruit 13 members for the mechanical
branch the 450 key personnel who
drive or operate cranes, forklifts and
all other mechanical devices on the
waterfront. It will be the first occasion
for the exercise of the SlA’s new
recruitment powers.
If the WWF does not create an
atmosphere in which applicants for the
13 positions are unwilling to come for-
ward. and does not brand those
selected as renegades, the Federal
Government will take it that the WWF
is prepared to go to the “all-in” con-
ference which the Prime Minister, Sir
Robert Menzies, agreed to last week,
for genuine negotiations. (It is signifi-
cant that the first test of WWF good-
will will affect Sydney’s mechanical
branch the only Right-wing con-
trolled section of the WWF on the
eastern seaboard For the past 15 years
throughout all this period under
ALP leadership the mechanical
branch has been noted for its indepen-
dence. This independence has brought
intermittent moves by Left-militants in
the WWF to take away the mechanical
section’s independence.)
Government hopes that the WWF
will not prejudice the conference from
the outset were raised last week by the
ATCU executive decision not to pre-
cipitate any industrial retaliation
over the provisions of the new Steve-
doring Industry Bill. Forces within
the WWF and the ACTU were dismayed
at Press misinterpretation of last
week’s statement suggesting that the
ACTU was already set on a collision
course with the Government.
Almost 12 months ago, with a chal-
lenging and industrially crippling burst,
the WWF began a campaign for a non-
contributory pension scheme, a mechanis-
ation fund and higher wages, ably
argued by Communist WWF official,
Mr N. Docker. The Federation deliber-
ately cut itself off from arbitration
and negotiations, resorting instead to
direct action and thereby providing the
genesis of the current crisis. The
Federation’s recklessness provided the
Government with an excellent reason
for legislative retaliation.
Ironically, the campaign failed to make
any headway and about a month ago it
flopped finally with the Federation
isolated from the remainder of the trade


union movement and under siege by the
Commonwealth. The remains were
delivered to the ACTU.
While the Federation urgently needed
the protection of the ACTU, at the same
time it had to contend with a potentially
serious rift within its own ranks. In
Fremantle and South Australia there
has been open talk of disaffiliating with
the “Sydney and Melbourne influences”
and in some of the South Australian
ports the anti-leadership feeling was par-
ticularly strong.
What began as an ACTU salvage
operation has now turned into a major
reformation drive not only of the WWF
itself but all phases of the waterfront.
The “all-in” conference sought by the
ACTU and conditionally accepted by
the Commonwealth is seen as the start-
ing point. The Commonwealth is pre-
pared, if concrete evidence is given by
the WWF of a new industrial integrity,
to consider a number of important
changes.
It is almost certain that the Woodward
Inquiry will recommend a form of
permanent employment on the water-
front. This would be desirable in the
Government's eyes. The real issue
would be the conditions of permanency,
which, to be acceptable to the ACTU,
could not involve any breaking down of
present hours and conditions.
Bound up with the permanency ques-
tion is the future of stevedoring com-
panies and a pension scheme. The steve-
doring companies which initially rejoiced
at the new Government firmness have
now become more reflective, particularly
some owned by overseas shipping com-
panies which have an embarrassing record
of inefficiency, poor supervision and pro-
vocative methods. Permanent employ-
ment on the waterfront almost certainly
would mean consolidation of the more
efficient companies and the possible
elimination of others. Signs of concern
in one Sydney company showed last week
when for the first time in a decade a
check was made at the end of a shift to
find out if all men rostered had remained
on the job until knock-off.
There is no chance of Government
acceptance of Federation demands for
a non-contributory pension scheme, but
the plan recently negotiated between
BHP and the Federated Ironworkers’
Association is being spoken of as an
alternative. Under this scheme a com-
pany subsidy is provided at a rate of
11 to 1, and contributions range from
3s. a week to 11s. for a retirement or
death cover of up to £6500. If the
Federation is prepared to come back to
the responsible trade union field, these
benefits would almost certainly flow to
its members.
ECONOMY
From Sunshine to Rain
Mr Holt’s weather
A variety of pointers gave increasing cause for concern about the longer term
outlook for the balance of payments last week.
These included evidence that the
drought will cut more deeply into rural
exports than recently envisaged; new
increases ot 8 per cent in freight rates
on manufactured goods’ exports; the
intention after the previous week’s high-
er hopes to implement the threatened 10
per cent rise in freight rates to North
America on December 1; and, worst of
all, US administration moves to tighten
curbs on capital outflow.
The hot news from Washington ap-
pears to have taken the Federal Trea-
surer, Mr Holt, lately in that capital, by
surprise. On his return earlier in the
week from his overseas tour pleading
the cause of expanding world liquidity
(and getting an infected lip in the pro-
cess), Mr Holt’s optimism was undim-
med. His sunshine talk on landing was
of unimpaired capital inflow from the
US and of a prospective betterment of
our present highly unfavorable balance
of payments trend in the second half of
the year “when our budget measures
take effect”.
Obviously while Mr. Holt may be right
in thinking Australia is America’s
favored overseas investment son, our
needs take second place to the US bal-
ance of payments in Washington eyes.
It is satisfactory to learn from the
Treasurer that supplies of US capital
for minerals development here are as-
sured. However, more immediately we
have to look to the inflow of other US
capital to shore up the drift in our
overseas reserves brought about by the
yawning gap in our balance of trade.
We can see the vital significance of that
from the balance of payments details
just published for 1964-65.
Of our current account deficit of
£385.4 million for 1964-65 by far the
major part was accounted for by the
deficit of £303.5 million attributed to the
United States. The latter figure is ob-
tained by subtracting our exports to
the US of £l3O million from our imports
of £335.1 from the US and adding our
net deficit of £99.2 million for invisibles
(most of which would be undistributed
earnings of US enterprises in this
country).
J. C. HORSFALL
TARIFF
Rationalising
the Structure
“These bad old days are over”
The stiffening in line towards un-
economic protection taken by this year’s
report of the Tariff Board is a welcome
indication that Australia is moving more
sensibly in the direction of a rationalised
tariff structure.
The new direction is in the spirit not
only of Mr Boyer, whose recent re-
freshing exposure of the failings of tariff
policy are still hanging in the air, but
also in the findings of the Vernon Com-
mittee which came up with a host of
enlightened suggestions for tariff reform.
The Tariff Board report’s remarks on
fragmentation and excess capacity in in-
dustry, for instance, bear the marks of
members determined to scotch the idea
which Mr Boyer instanced as being
typical of the approach to tariff-making
over the year: “If you make it,
we’ll protect it.” The Board now says
categorically that these bad old days
are over, thus underlining with added
force an earlier intimation that the costs
of over -fragmentation, and surplus
capacity, should not be borne by the
community as a whole if they
are to be incurred at all. It is preferable
for some to go to the wall under the
impact of competition in the interest of


'■m
wmm
fell#
H
SIT BESIDE THE DRIVER OF EVERY VEHICLE!
Communication is so much more powerful... more reliable with
STC’s new Mobile Radiophone system.
Today you can control your vehicle fleet on as efficient cost-time basis as your office
... thanks to the advanced techniques used in STC Radiophones. The STC Radio-
phone is so small it fits snugly under the dash of any vehicle. At the same time it has
that extra performance and reliability to suit your particular needs. There is only one
way to test and compare STC Radiophone superiority on your own premises. Let
us show you!
An experienced Communications Engineer will survey your operational area to
provide a complete system tailored to* your needs. A convenient Purchase Plan
permits the system to pay for itself as you use it, and return extra profits through
greater fleet efficiency.
For further information on STC Mobile Radiophones contact Standard Telephones
and Cables Pty. Limited, Moorebank Avenue, Liverpool, N.S.W. Phone: 602 0333.
Melbourne 44 5161. Canberra 9 1043.
Distributors: QLD.: Fred Hoe & Sons, Brisbane, 4 1771. S.A.: Unbehaun & Johnstone
Pty. Ltd., Adelaide, 51 3731. W.A.: M.J. Bateman Pty. Ltd., Perth, 21 6461. TAS.:
W. & G. Genders Pty. Ltd., Launceston, 2 2231, Hobart, Burnie, Devonport.
ITT
AN
ASSOCIATE
worldwide telecommunications and electronics
©
Q 2968
streamlining the industrial structure and
reducing costs.
The Board has also shown a welcome
flexibility of approach to complaint, i
For one thing it has recommended*
the removal of the present profit
limitations on companies receiving
bound bounties from the Govern-
ment. It has done this in recognition
that such profit limitations remove the
incentive of companies to increase
output, increase their efficiency and even
export development.
Again, moving in step with the Vernon!
Committee, it is considering recommend-
ing the increased use of the bounty form
of protection as local production extends
more to basic materials and components.
On dumping it proposes to hive off the
bulk of its present work, thrust on it by
the Act, and limit its activities to special
cases, leaving the majority to be investi-
gated by the Department of Customs
and Excise.
The Board has put out some excellent
industry reports this year and intends,
as a determined policy, to proceed with
the systematic revision of all the major
industries in the economy, most of which
the report says, nobody has had a really
good look at for twenty-five years or
more. On its hands at the moment,
following its completion of its crude oil
and related fuels inquiry, it is examin-
ing, inter alia, the aluminium industry
to decide what form protection should
take.
FOLICE
An Image
“The most disgusting piece
of legislation.”
It’s a fact of life of Australian journal-
ism that not many Federal conferences
rate the presence of interstate journalists.
The first surprising thing about the con-
ference of the Australian Federation of
Police Unions in Sydney last week was
that it rated two journalists from Mel-
bourne and one from Brisbane.
The second surprising thing about the
conference was that most of the delegates
didn’t look obviously policemen. Some
of the delegates even showed a concern
with “the image of the police”, a concepi
not likely to have been discussed at
such conferences a few years ago. It
was this concern with “the image” that
was behind the strongest debate of the
conference over the Queensland Govern-
ment’s Mount Isa Emergency legisla-
tion. To a Victorian delegate, Mr D.
McHugh, it was “the most disgusting
piece of legislation that has ever come


into my hands. It was a denial of the
British-type police force.”
The Queensland delegates (two men
who did look like policemen) were baf-
fled by the attack and the talk of the
“image” of the force. In reply they stuck
obstinately to their “oath of service” and
the idea of “a lawful command”. In reply
to an interjection by Inspector W. Crow-
ley, secretary of the Victorian Police
Union, “You’re not trying to tell me this
wasn’t strike-breaking legislation?” the
only answer of the Queensland secretary,
D. Callaghan was, “I am.” The Vic-
torians went down by 14 votes to 10,
but their defeat was respectable enough
for them to have made their point.
It was the Victorians who put the
other most potentially interesting motion
on the agenda for a discussion of police
interrogation methods. But when Inspec-
tor Crowley rose the morning after the
Murray report to discuss his motion he
was somewhat less radical than over
Mount Isa. Noting a world-wide trend to
attack police methods of interrogation,
he went out of his way to stress that
any abuses only came from a small
minority and talked of defence strata-
gems. Inspector Crowley wanted the
abolition of the Judges’ Rules, still apply-
ing in Victoria, describing them as out-
moded. But he ran into opposition from
the South Australian secretary, Mr
Tremethick, who had supported him over
Mt Isa. Mr Tremethick, ten years a
detective in Adelaide, said that he had
never had any difficulty with the Judges’
Rules, indeed one of the best detectives
in the State was a stickler for them “in
the extreme”. Near the end of his speech
someone made a sotto voce crack about
“the virgin city” but, after him, discus-
sion petered out and there was no motion
on the question.
The now-growing Government device
of increasing civilian staff in police de-
partments came in for unanimous cen-
sure. The rest of the conference was
straightforward enough except for one
decision with subtle overtones rejecting
a Queensland move to obtain an invita-
tion for the Papua-New Guinea Police
to the next conference. Queensland was
allowed to speak on the subject, but the
president, with the obvious approbation
of the rest of the conference, ruled it
out of order.
SOLICITORS
The Old Guard
A gentlemanly election
In the little closed world of the New South Wales solicitors’ governing
oligarchy the generation of post-1954 is knocking at the door. While the solicitors
of NSW have recently been in the headlines for other reasons, a quiet but
keenly fought election campaign has been going on, probably in the long run more
important than the current flurry of investigations.
The election, the results of which will
be announced next week, is for five posi-
tions on the council of the Law Society
of NSW. The significance of the post-
1954 generation is that of the 3000 or
so solicitors in the State it is estimated
that some 1400 are post-1954. There
are no manifestos or tickets in this
gentlemanly election. The technique is
the quiet phone call by a friend can-
vassing support. What has emerged in
the course of the campaign, however, is
a rumbling dissatisfaction among the
younger men with the old guard. Honest
young solicitors know that, to use the
words of one, “the image of the profes-
sion has never been worse.” It is not
only a question of the investigations,
The looming spectre in the elections
is what will happen to the Fidelity Fund.
In March this year the Law Society in
a circular admitted £101,505 in hand
and claims of £167,508 against it. Since
then there have been further trust fund
failures. The amount involved in one
failure is even said to exceed the total
amount claimed in March.
The bank-up of claims and the fact
that every legal avenue has to be
exhausted by the client before he can
successfully claim from the fund has
meant shocking delays. One grudge of
the anti-establishment of solicitors is that
the fund has been so conservatively
administered as to cause grave hardship.
However the fund is financed, it is
being said that it should pay the client
in a reasonable time and leave it to
the profession to take the legal steps to
regain the money from the defaulter.
The question of how to finance the
fund is one of the issues. The existing
council earlier this year put up a pro-
posal to obtain interest on trust funds
(at present held interest free by the
banks) and to use it for the Fidelity
Fund. This would give substantially
more than the present £6 a year levy
on principals and partners. In a ballot
this was rejected, partly because of a
vigorous campaign from firms associated
with the naturally reluctant banks, partly
from principle and partly from the cold
reality that the trust fund is a very good
bargaining counter for personal over-
drafts. Now with time running out the
society has come back with a modified
form of the proposal, still based on
trust fund interest, to go to the Fidelity
Fund and to law libraries and research.
Meetings on the original proposal pro-
vided some of the impetus for the cur-
rent discontent. Even younger men who
supported the proposal, seeing for the
first time their councillors in action,
were unimpressed.
However, like all oligarchies the old
guard will be hard to move. The Coun-
cil consists of some 18 members, 15
elected by ballot and the other three
SWAINSVILLE
lA/EU, tT’S F/NtsH£t>.
Whatt>o You th/hk?
marvellous,
darl/a/<?.
A BEAUT/FOL SOAJO OF FREEDOM
A//0 HOFE, BUT£O YOU REALLY FEEL
that 'M&ALOPOU7ANAUemT/ON '
Y$ A CATCHY xeFKA/H ?


K % ' ' •V'm . ’ *
5%
ci§l§s
%
m% * 1
\1964
bC* t\ T\CS
*•* -' 5: X jj
ORLANDO
faro^aKt^Uu?
'^ LLY VINTACED AUSTRALIAN
m
PTV®
ccrampcson^
°"“" d
■
■M £5
J
TOP PRIZE
WINNER FOR
TWELVE YEARS
Since its introduction in 1953, Orlando
Barossa Riesling has won more awards
than any other Australian Riesling.
One hundred and thirty-two major
awards, in fact, including Gold and
Silver Medals, Championships and Cups
throughout Australia and in Europe.
Last year, its greatest honour was the
Gold Medal awarded at the International
Viticultural and Wine Fair at Mont-
pellier, France, world-famous centre
for wine study and research.
Every bottle of Barossa Riesling awarded
a prize has been taken at random from
stock proof positive of the wine’s
unfailing consistency.
Two major reasons why you can rely
on Barossa Riesling are:
* It is bottled in the traditional European
amber Riesling bottle, in preference to
a green-bottle, because Riesling needs
bottle age, and amber glass, keeps
out the light while the wine is aging.
* It is one of the very few Australian
Rieslings vintaged 100% from Rhine
Riesling grapes.
ORLANDO
BAROSSA
RIESLING
Prize-winning Orlando Barossa Riesling is made by
G. Gramp and Sons Pty. Ltd., in South Australia’s
famous Barossa Valley.
10983
appointed as regional representatives.
But the election is worked so that one-
third of the elected council members
retire each year. Of those, three are
eligible for re-election. This year eighteen
are contesting the five places. Even a
clean sweep of five new faces would
not mean a revolution.
But what the current election is doing
is to wake up interest among the mass
of solicitors in what was previously
regarded as the province of a few. It
has brought ideas into circulation.
Some solicitors are now talking about
putting “speculation” on a proper basis
as in the United States, where clients’
cases can be taken on a percentage basis
of verdict. The present acceptance of
de facto speculation tends to concen-
trate certain types of business in the
hands of a few firms.
The suspicion of the trend towards
bigger firms also underlies some of the
campaigning in the current election. It
is being said that the old guard of the
council tends to favor bigger firms and
to be suspicious of the smaller practices.
NEW GUINEA
Moresby
Strikes
New wave
Administration officials are concerned
about the recent series of strikes by
native workmen in Port Moresby.
The strikes by wharfiaborers, shop
assistants, laborers, brewery workers
and trainee schoolteachers followed
a strike by Administration transport
drivers and mechanics on Septem-
ber 27. None of the strikes was due to
any “outside influence”.
The transport drivers had a real griev-
ance. The conditions under which they
were housed were appalling and their
actual working conditions were never
properly explained to them; 48 single
drivers were housed in three main huts,
slept on steel mattresses, were without
cupboards and cooking facilities and had
only two pan-toilets, two small washtubs,
one copper and four showers between
them. At weekends the toilet pans were
not cleared, which meant, as one driver
told me, “We must go to the bush and
not follow the Government fashion”.
All the cooking was done over open
fires outside the huts and, when it
rained, the drivers were forced inside
to do their cooking on two primus stoves,
neither of which was supplied by the
Administration. Limited married quar-
ters were available so limited that one
of the drivers most respected by his Aus-
tralian bosses was forced to house his


tf*
MAC BAREN’S FINEST
a, mm
.
>$ -•
The tobacco that keeps the
promise of its “bouquet”
4'
wm
EH
vZo4K/
Open a tin and the aroma of 6 different
tobaccos dominated by a golden ripe Virginia
promises you an extravagant smoking pleasure.
MAC BAREN’S
PLUMCAKE
Imported especially for the pipe-
smoking connoisseur. 2 oz. tin 8/11
SAISS
wife and family in single quarters ■—
but even in the married quarters few had
stoves and most families slept on the
concrete floors.
! Because of the limited bus service in
Port Moresby, the taxi fleet is a very
large one. Yet all taxi drivers needing
accommodation are housed by the com-
pany and earn approximately £lO per
week per shift with the right to work
double shifts as w 7 ell. Many Admini-
stration drivers, on the other hand, earn
[as little as £3 10s. per week.
Administration officials have given
definite undertakings that the most se-
rious of the complaints would be met,
and work commenced within hours of
the undertaking being given.
When asked why they hadn't ap-
proached their bosses about conditions,
I the drivers replied that they had had
the Assistant Administrator, Dr J. T.
Gunther, the Treasurer, Mr A. P. J.
t Newman, and Mr Zure Zurecnouc, a
member of the House of Assembly, to
inspect their conditions in the past 15
| months but nothing had been done for
them. The drivers believed that their
cause was just, that their conduct had
been reasonable, and the only answer was
a strike. The problem is that the strike
and its immediate success illustrated the
fruits of direct action; hence the later
strikes, and these will not be the last.
EMPLOYMENT
Down Mexico
Way
Dislocating production
The lure of big wages on the crash
programme of iron ore projects in the
State’s north-west has created an employ-
ment bottleneck in Western Australia.
As men leave steady jobs in Perth to
go north, to earn two and three times
their normal wages on the projects’ 60-
hour weeks, employers and the State
Government are advocating importing
?what they call “short-term contract
labor' from overseas: a scheme the
unions describe in the emotional phrase
that gave birth to the White Australia
policy, “indentured labor”. Charles
Court, Minister for Industrial Develop-
ment and the North-West, revived the
issue when he told the annual con-
ference of the Australian Road Tran-
sport Federation in Perth that one over-
seas contractor had considered bringing
in between 200 and 500 Mexicans for
work on a Pilbara railway job.
This prospect of importing workers
has been brought up several times in re-
cent months, and went closest to the bone
when a visiting industrialist suggested
his fellow countrymen might be brought
from Japan. And last week the State’s
Trades and Labor Council called a meet-
mg of State and Federal unions to thrash
out organised labors stance on whether
these workers (Maltese, Turks, Lebanese
had also been mentioned) should be al-
lowed in, and if so under what cir-
cumstances
c. f . , ,
So far the iron ore people have man-
t . .u
aged to tread carefully pas the corns
of the many parties involved. Only one
firm has advertised widely for labor in
Perth, but despite this about half the
northern workforce, which will build up
to a peak of 5700, is made up of men who
have left Perth to get at the £4O and
£5O weekly pay-packets, plus first-class
accommodation and food, that are on of-
fer. An estimated 500 newcomers a
month are drifting into the State to of-
fer their skills and muscles.
The Wes f s unemployment level of ,
per cent is the lowest in and south _
ern em lo in manufacturing jndus .
.• „ f , ~ . f
,n “ are d ° uble P'" ch ~
exodus °f workers dislocating produc-
tlon on one “ an< 3 the labor
shortage bidding up wages on the other.
A/r „ u * •, t r ,
Mr Denis Cullity, president of the
chamber of Manufactures, points out
that there have been
cases of contracts
for the iron ore projects bei dda d
because the projects have lured off the
contractors’ workers. Mr Court claims
that Perth firms are often unable to
tender for jobs confidently because of
the labor disruption, so the West is losing
to interstate or overseas competitors.


PILKINGTONS
lead the world in glassmaking
5/
fe-
ll
* «■
•a"***
m
* \ j
3HS
m
- -.
There’s no more searching test of a
glass than to make it into a mirror, and
reflect an object in it again and again.
There’s no doubt which glass makes to-
day’s finest, truest mirrors Float glass,
invented and developed by Pilkingtons.
;T)
Pilkington glasses made or processed
in up-to-date plants in nine countries,
and behind every product are the vast
resources of some of the glass industrys’
largest laboratories, working on quality
control, and on research and development.
Pilkington research and development
produced Float glass which, with its new
clarity and brilliance, outdates Plate
glass in modern building, for mirror
making and for toughening into
safety glass.
For the finest glass specify Pilkingtons.
Pifkingtons’ Agent in Australia . . .
Pilkingtons’ service in Australia is
provided by Mr. C. Rogers who can help
you in any problem concerning the use
of glass. Just write to Mr. C. Rogers,
4 Bridge Street (G.P.O. Box 561), Sydney,
N.S.W. Pilkingtons’ glass is available
from glass merchants throughout
Australia. Head Office: Pilkington
Brothers Limited, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England.
FOR MODERH BUILDING SPECIFY GLASS BY PILKIHGTONS-INVERTORS OF FLOAT
PKI 502/65


' %
" v
For you . . .
only the best
ASAHI
Here's the camera that is the ultimate choice
of discriminating professional and enthusiastic
amateur photographers all over the world; the
camera that brings you picture perfection
and personal prestige.
Asahi PENTAX introduces you to a new world
of photographic delight! A wide choice of
incomparable Takumar lenses and a full range
of accessories puts you in command of every
photographic situation.
Asahi PENTAX SV with f/1.8 Takumar
Lens and E.R. case, £9O/0/0.
Asahi PENTAX S.I.A with Auto Super
Takumar f/2 Lens and E.R. case,
£75/0/0.
Ask to see Asahi PENTAX at YOUR phot#
dealer.
C. 957
CHURCH
The Moderator
Peace parson’s seniority
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
The anti-American Left in Melbourne was jubilant last week that the Reverend
A. M. Dickie was appointed Moderator of the Presbyterian Church in Victoria.
I Their finest hopes were realised when
;Mr Dickie, addressing the opening of
the Presbyterian General Assembly after
'his induction, declared that his judgment
1 was “against war and American and
Australian involvement in Vietnam, and
for implementing the Geneva Agree-
| ment of 1954”.
Mr Dickie is the foremost of Mel-
(bourne’s outspoken band of peace
parsons. He is a foundation member
of the Australian Peace Council and
the present chairman of the Australian
and New Zealand Congress for Inters
national Co-operation and Disarmament.
Mr Dickie told the assembly that there
I were two alternatives facing mankind:
| war to a nuclear death, or an end to
the cold war through a revolution in
man’s outlook and relations to his fellow
man and to the world. Referring again
to Vietnam, Mr Dickie said: “To mark
the revolution in man’s outlook to his
fellow man and to the world ... I
would say, in the interest of the justice
of mankind ... in the name of Christ,
stop it.”
[ Mr Dickie is aware that a number of
informed people, including a number of
1 ex-Communists and, also, the Prime
Minister, have declared these organisa-
tions to be Communist fronts, but ex-
plains: “There are not many Communists
in these organisations. As long as the
| movement is directed to peace it does
j not matter who is in it.”
I Mr Dickie visited Peking around the
* time of the Hungarian Revolution and
as a result of his experience says that
he does not think Red China is interested
in expanding her borders. He adds that
“China has not had much of a deal from
the nations of the world . . . and with
[the Seventh Fleet on her doorstep and
f bombs falling up to its border you can
I understand some of China’s actions”.
All who know the new Moderator,
I including those in his own church who
! are not in agreement with his political
I beliefs, are assured of his absolute
sincerity. Even those members of the
assembly, who last week were opposed
to the successful motion which decided
to ask ministers and congregations to give
practical support to church members who
were conscientious objectors on the
grounds of “Christian conscience”, are
persuaded that Mr Dickie’s actions and
words are motivated solely by a burning
desire for peace. They also claim that
Mr Dickie’s appointment to the position
of Moderator is more a matter of
seniority than a sign that his political
views are gaining support in the Presby-
terian Assembly.
RELIGION
Breaking from
Constantinople
Communist infiltrators?
Since the Patriarchate of Constanti-
nople appointed Archbishop Ezekiel as
Australian leader of the Greek Orthodox
Church in 1959 many of the Church’s
200,000 adherents here have been in
open revolt against him. Last week the
NSW Greek Orthodox Community voted
itself out of Archbishop Ezekiel’s con-
trol and set itself up as an autonomous
version of the Church.
In doing this the community claims
to have solved a problem set by the
Equity Court last year when it ruled in
favor of Archbishop Ezekiel, and re-
strained the community from setting up
Archbishop Photios, a defrocked priest,
as its spiritual leader.
The 89 Greek communities in Austra-
lia are set up and registered separately
under the Companies Act, with inde-
pendent auditors of their administrative
finances. Laymen make up their govern-
ing bodies and have the right of decision
on temporal matters. The priests attached
to the churches confine themselves to
spiritual matters.
The NSW community, which controls
three of Sydney’s 13 Greek churches,
was following the lead of other com-
munities in Melbourne, Adelaide and
Newcastle in breaking away from Con-
stantinople. The community’s president,
Mr D. Tzingris, explained: “We want to
establish a national Greek Orthodox
Church in Australia.”
Archbishop Ezekiel’s reply to the com-
munity’s decision was scathing. He
claimed it resulted from Cypriot Com-
munists and criminals infiltrating the
community’s 20-member governing
council. He challenged the council to
lift the restriction which kept member-
ship of the community to 1000, and to
enrol “all Greek Orthodox Christians
resident in Sydney other than those of
bad character”. At the moment, he
said, the council was being directed by
the “Communist-dominated” Atlas Club,
and the community was in no way re-
presentative of the congregations of its
three churches.
Mr Tzingris declined to comment on
the Archbishop’s allegations of Commun-
ist influence. He said the community’s
next steps would be to elect its priests
and increase its membership to 5000.
ROBERT KLIMA


The Drifters
Predicting who will become criminals
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
Eric is in his late forties, about sft 7in and thin. He is quiet and unaggressive. “I’m a loafer by profession
and only burgle for the money.” He has a long string of convictions, mainly for breaking and entering and
larceny. He says that he is always nervous when “on the job” and thinks that he would be incapable of using
violence if caught by a householder. He specialises in burgling the homes of professional men: “I’m what’s
known as a Pink-Pages operator.”
“My usual method is to look up the
phone book under the headings of Physi-
cians and Surgeons, and Solicitors.
Mostly I look for names in the eastern
suburbs, like Kew, Malvern, Camber-
well, and that, and give some of them a
ring. I write down the addresses of those
that don’t answer the phone and hop in
the bomb and go for a cruise around. If
there are no lights on in one of the
places I’ve rung I go to the nearest
phone box and give it another ring be-
fore making up my mind to do it over.
Naturally I go for places in reasonably
dark streets.
“It’s generally pretty easy to break in
and pinch stuff, but plenty of times I’ve
got scared and gone home without doing
anything. A couple of times I’ve even
broken into a place and thought I’ve
heard noises and climbed out again
without taking anything.”
Eric had never been in any trouble
with the law until about seven years ago
when his wife “ran off to Mildura with
another bloke”. He had lived with his
wife in an inner suburb for more than
ten years. “We used to get along all right
most of the time.”
Mrs Eric appears to have been little
more than a lazy slut but Eric was wil-
ling to tolerate anything so long as she
stayed with him. There were no children.
He says that he became depressed when
his wife left. He went up to Mildura but
couldn’t get her to come back and “cop-
ped a hiding from the boyfriend just to
top it off.
“I dropped my bundle for a while and
started to take days off from work and
finally just didn’t go at all. I started to
drink around the town during the after-
noons while my money held out and
palled up with a few petty thieves and
house-breakers.
“I learnt how they operated, and how
they got rid of the stuff, and when I woke
up broke one morning I decided to go
and rob a house that night. In fact it took
me a couple of weeks to get over my
nerves but f finally did a job in a doc-
tor’s house and made quite a few quid.
The funny thing is that I can never re-
member stealing anything in my life
before that.”
Eric was picked up by a patrol car
whilst walking down a street in Kew
one night after completing “something
like my twentieth successful job”. He
says that he was so frightened that he
admitted doing every job which the police
accused him of, including some that he
knew nothing about.
Eric has tried settling down to a
steady job many times since but says
that he only lasts a few months before he
gets tired of them: “I just wake up one
morning and feel that I can’t be bothered
going any more.”
He has long since lost the house that
he and his wife were paying off and now
lives mostly in single rooms in the Carl-
ton or East Melbourne districts. He
goes back to house-breaking when hii
money runs out and he can’t bring himi
self to look for a new job. He has beeil
in gaol three times so far, and “it’s noj
as bad as you think. I usually get oj
all right with the warders. You meet som
very interesting blokes in gaol”.
There are no relatives in Melbournl
with whom he is on visiting terms, an
“what with the wife leaving and m
being in gaol and that” it is some year
since he has seen anyone from the are
in which he formerly lived. A mai
without malice and without hope, Eri<
is known in the language of social wel-
fare as a “drifter”. He drifts in and ou
of jobs and rooms, and sometimes it
and out of gaol.
is 21, strongly built, has coi
victions for assault, and says he hi
“a wild temper at times”. But he clain
that he was not in the wrong when la:
convicted: “A couple of lairs picked n
in a pub. All I did wrong was win.”
A country boy, Geoff came to Me
bourne four years ago and got to kno
a group of older men at a local hote


■
Are you spending too much
on your packaging?
m
<. •
m
.
llBfe
This new packaging film
could reduce your costs
by a third.
The new packaging film is called
Zendel H.C.A. It costs a lot less
than most other packaging materials
because it is a polyethylene film—
and polyethylene is the lowest cost
transparent film available today.
The clarity of Zendel H.C.A. is
high, and its special anti-static
properties fight off dust, lint, fluff
and grime to keep your package
clean and appealing before it’s sold.
Zendel H.C.A. performs well on
high speed bagging machines and
can be handled faster than many
other packaging materials by
unskilled operators.
Ask us, or your bag supplier, for
bag or film samples and prices on
the new superior polyethylene
packaging film, Zendel H.C.A.
Don’t be fobbed off onto inferior
substitutes Zendel H.C.A. is
made in Australia for Union
Carbide, world’s leading polyethy-
lene producer. For the name of bag
makers using Zendel H.C.A. poly-
ethylene film, simply contact the
Union Carbide office in your State.
Union Carbide Australia Limited
Plastics Division
167 Kent Street, Sydney
Branch Offices
in State Capitals
H.C.A.
High Clarity, Antistatic
Polyethylene Film
ZENDEL POLYETHYLENE FILM GRADES FOR EVERY PACKAGING APPLICATION:
ZENDEL H.C. high clarity polyethylene film
ZENDEL H.C.A. high clarity, antistatic polyethylene film
ZENDEL U.T. ultra thin polyethylene film
ZENDEL E.H.t. extra high impact polyethylene film
ZENDEL U.H.I. ultra high impact (for shipping bags)
ZENDEL T. high impact, very low slip (for tapes)
“Union Carbide” and "Zendel” are registered trade marks.
646 a
He says he liked their company—“they
could be really funny at times” —their
parties and their girls.
A couple of them broke into factories
when they knew where to “meet an
order”. Geoff joined them dn some of
their expeditions and one Sunday night
he fell through a roof, fractured his arm,
and was captured by the police. He also
has convictions for illegally using cars,
one of which he “smashed up a bit one
night down at Frankston”.
The longest he has remained in the
one job is six months. That was when he
was driving for grocery firm. He says
the job was not too bad—“not as boring
as factory work” but he had to give
it up when the firm learnt he had lost
his licence.
He has never thought of becoming a
professional criminal: “I know some but
they have spent half their lives in gaol.”
He intends to keep out of trouble if he
can but supposes that he is bound to do
something silly again before long. Just
at the moment he is not working. He
sleeps in a bungalow at the back of a
mate’s place and pays £2 a week to
his mate’s wife when he can. “They
don’t seem to mind if I miss a payment
now and again. Anyway, I’ll get a job
soon. There’s work about if you want
it.”
Geoff has no steady girl-friend. In
fact he says that he has never actually
taken a girl out in his life, though he has
met plenty at parties “and got on all right
with them”. He says that he would like
a decent car of his own, but apart from
thinking about that, does not worry about
the future. He displays no interest in
getting a permanent job of reasonable
status and has never really thought about
whether he might want to get married.
He has been on probation, on parole,
and in gaol. He feels that he has not
caused anyone much harm “when it’s all
added up”, and he does not feel much
shame about what he has done. He says
he most enjoys having a few beers in
the pub. He usually drinks either at the
hotel in St Kilda, or at another hotel “in
town, where some blokes drink that I
used to work with when 1 was driving”.
He spends a lot of time by himself when
he is not working. A great deal of this
time he lies on his bed listening to the
hit records on a transistor radio.
In the jargon of popular criminology,
Geoff is also “on the drift”.
lyiosT men in unstable circumstances
■ do not become criminals like Eric
and Geoff, but those who do frequently
repeat their offences. They usually cause
no trouble in gaol and get good reports
from their penal supervisors; they get on
well with their parole officers, but the
penalties they suffer and the treatment
they receive seem to make little dif-
ference to their law-breaking habits. If


and when they cease offending the cure
will most likely lie in their establishing
new and more stable social relationships,
perhaps through marriage or moving
into a new circle of friends.
In criminology the law-breaking drifter
is simply part of the wider group term-
ed “recidivists”, a term which refers to
persons convicted of crimes who are
subsequently reconvicted. The most
likely recidivists are those who are
convicted of drunkenness and vagrancy;
the next most likely to be rearrested are
those convicted of breaking and entering
and larceny, common enough crimes but
not of alarming social significance. Of
major crimes against the person only
robbery reveals a high recidivist rate.
Whilst the problem of recidivism is
serious and perplexing, the popular
notion that most crimes are committed
by a small outlaw criminal class is not
supported by the facts. Most crimes are
committed by persons who appear to
offend only once; in the trade these are
known as “one-time losers”.
Recidivism is highest amongst young
offenders from about 14 years to 25.
After the mid-twenties there is a strong
tendency to give up law-breaking; the
reasons may be guessed at, although they
have never been adequately examined
in research. In the case of delinquents
it is clear that the age of first delin-
quency and arrest is an important factor
in predicting subsequent criminal history.
An American study of the history of 500
reformatory inmates for a period of
ten years revealed that failure rates were
as high as 74 per cent for those whose
first delinquency occurred at the age of
11. The failure rates scaled down to
44 per cent for those who were 17 or
more at the time of their first offence.
The view taken by criminologists of
the high recidivism rate amongst young
offenders and the fact that they usually
abandon crime permanently after a few
years is that larceny, illegally using cars,
and burglary are by-far the most com-
mon major felonies and that they are
usually youthful and repetitive crimes.
Studies undertaken in England of
those who remain in lawbreaking acti-
vities suggest persistent criminal
is either basically psychopathic or, be-
cause of his character or circumstances,
unable to establish stable social relation-
ships with any group outside law-
breakers, or both of these things.
Various tables of social background
or personality traits have been used by
criminologists in attempts to predict the
most likely delinquents. The most highly
regarded is one worked out in the United
States which rates subjects in terms of
the following five factors: discipline of
boy by father; supervision of boy by
mother; affection of father for boy; af-
fection of mother for boy; and cohe-
siveness of family. Significantly, the fac-
tor which is given the highest negative
score-rating is serious lack of cohesive-
ness in the family.
In the case of proven delinquents the
following prediction table has been con-
structed after studying the later careers
of hundreds of reformatory graduates.
This table lists five factors against the
percentage of recidivism amongst those
studied over a 15-year span:
Factors Failure rate
1. No. of children in family:
A. 7or more 27%
B. 2to 6 33%
C. 1 child 48%
2. Economic status of parents:
A. Dependent or marginal 27%
B. Comfortable 39%
3. Skill of father:
A. Unskilled 23%
B. Semi-skilled or skilled 36%
4. Intelligence of offender:
A. Not feeble-minded 30%
B. Feeble-minded 41%
5. Age at first delinquency:
A. 14 and older 24%
B. Under 14 36%
According to this table an offender
who scores under 150 has two chances
in ten of continuing to be a serious of-
fender and three chances in ten of be-
coming a minor offender; four chances
in ten of reforming entirely and less than
one chance in ten of relapsing into cri-
minality after a long period of good
behavior. But if an offender scores 180
or more he has almost seven chances in
ten of remaining a serious offender.
When first published, this table was
featured by a popular American maga-
zine as a means of predicting delin-
quency amongst normal children. The
story published claimed that the most
likely criminal type was an only child,
son of an economically better-off father
in a skilled occupation or profession.
In fact, of course, the table refers only
to those who have been committed to a
reformatory and gives no insight at all
into other children or youths. The cor-
relation of these factors with delinquency
possibilities in normal youngsters may,
if anything, be inverse. The factors
which prognosticate recidivism are
almost certain to be different in many
Shead at his Health Studio
"I wont to look like Myron's
discobolus."
"If you can't lift that you need our course"
"Been coming here long, mote?"


WM
m
m
m
E
m
lue
A Touch of Blue - That’s the fashion tone
this Spring and Summer
Not brilliant blues. Not extravagant blues. Just a touch of blue.
A touch of blue to browns. A touch to olives. To greys. But only a
touch. Skilfully tailored. Carefully hand detailed. Keith Courtenay
suits feature, not only these latest fashion tonings, but the
“Forward Line” too!
The “Forward Line” up-grades your chest and shoulders, down-
grades your waist. A Keith Courtenay suit is not
mass produced. It is individually tailored. That’s
why it is the only suit that’s guaranteed.
FROM £25.19.6 AT ALL STORES WHO KNOW GOOD CLOTHES
For your nearest retailer write: Keith Courtenay Clothes,
125 Flinders Lsn®, Melbourne.
r A
TOUCH OF
ways from those which predict first
offences.
The major despair amongst parole of-
ficers, social welfare workers, and others
working to reform law-breakers is the
recidivist who shows no obvious mental
illness or disturbance, who has no
hankering to be a calculating, profes-
sional criminal, and who appears to lack
aggressive anti-social feelings. He may
have numerous convictions but he has
never really chosen a life of crime, and
his case appears to all who meet him
to be one which could be solved by
establishing him in a relatively stable
social environment.
The young drifter may ultimately gain
the necessary motivation to change his
habits through marriage, but his delin-
quency record, his inability to stay in a
job, and his air of instability make
marriage less likely for him than for
most. The older drifter has often suffer-
ed a marriage break-up or knows that
his chances of marriage are slight. In
any case the obligations of marriage do
not provide him with the incentive to
stop himself from drifting into crime
and criminal company, but, unlike the
professional criminal, he has little skill
and no pride in his work. As he gets
older and loses more strength and
courage, the chances of his becoming
an alcoholic vagrant are high. Without
adequate social goals and stability, with-
out much grief or malice, and without
sufficient motives to reform, he is likely
to be found, sooner or later, in the
middle of the drunks’ procession at the
city, Fitzroy, or St Kilda Courts: “Fined
£5 or 3 days. Next case”.
"And you can all guess the other
advantages of having muscles ."


N
nr.
as*
>.v.
IT'S SIMPLICITY ITSELF
TO MAKE SURE . . .
By installing the Smith-Corona “Typetronic 2215”, you
will introduce automatic operation into your office
and automatic benefits as well.
Time saved, money saved, and the certainty of correct
information at all times are sound reasons why you
should install typetronic, either by purchase or on lease.
Ask for a demonstration.
A PRODUCT OP SMITH-CORONA MARCHANT INC.
I Distributed by:
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LTD
47 York Street, Sydney. 2 2033 • 167 Queen Street, Melbourne. 67 9161
Cocktails with Uplift
Vegetarians lack sex appeal
By JAN SMITH
As it was with the man who learnt
piano secretly, so it is with those
who go over to vegetarianism.
When they sit down, be it to nutmeat
salad, fresh sprouted alfalfa or vegetarian
brawn, people are apt to laugh.
Why? Is it the Philistine grin? Do
people suspect that religion is at the back
of it, and rather dreary religion at that?
Or is it just that vegetarian ragout is
pretty nasty anyway?
With these questions in mind, this
month’s Natural Health Society display,
in the Society’s Castlereagh Street of-
fices, Sydney, turned out to be a fascin-
ating adventure, a kind of cocktail party
with uplift. Everyone in the natural
health business had pitched in. By the
door there were intricate devices to lure
and kill insects —“Fight insects electroni-
cally” the posters said and beyond
stacks of fruit and vegetables were juice
extractors, rowing machines, bees at
work in honeycombs, herbal cosmetics
made from avocado oil and a vast array
of nibble trays offering everything from
soya loaf to peppermint tea.
Down at the back a man with a beard
was ushering people into a room to watch
a film about bread, and the virtues of
the home quern for grinding wheat. Hor-
rible pictures of mouldy, devitalized com-
mercial bread flashed on the screen as
one parked the children already re-
signed to television as a propaganda
medium anyway and headed for the
literature department.
The selection was rather better than
one finds in the normal course of brows-
ing through the arcade shops over a car-
rot-and-beetroot in the lunch-hour. The
old standbys like Eating for Health and
The Uses of Juices were well to the
fore, but there was fresh stimulation in
From the Deathbed to Boisterous Health,
and The Prenatal Origin of Genius. Mr
lan Rose’s Bread, Love and Seaweed was
also available, along with Living Con-
structively and Life Begins at Seventy.
Television comedienne Hazel Phillips,
a vegetarian who corresponds with lamas
in Tibet who use electric typewriters, had
opened the display the night before and
there was at least one picture, nearly
life-size, of a virile Murray Rose, pushing
father’s book. But at this stage, with one’s
stomach a dietetic mess of prune spread,
fruit cake and rosetip tea, the true cause
of vegetarianism’s problems became
obvious.
Vegetarians need a good public rela-
tions man, a kind of Billy Graham or
Lafayette Hubbard, to change the old
image of dutiful self-denial. Miss Donna
Douglas, the star of The Beverly Hill-
billies, may be a nice girl, forgoing her
steak and cuddling furry animals, but
she is hardly in the Elizabeth Taylor
class.
Cary Grant rocks the boat
A nd while it is very engrossing to read
hand-printed notices about dental
caries and the threat to the bee industry
from white sugar, a misspelt word or
comma may well lose a thousand pros-
pective converts. Few vegetarians have
ever made a million on the stock ex-
change, and Cary Grant, while well-pre-
served, is upsetting the health boat by
using drugs. In short, vegetarianism lacks
dynamism. And sex appeal.
As it is, vegetarianism for most Sydney
people begins and ends at the entrance
to places like the Sanitarium Health Food
shop in Hunter Street, where hundreds
of young office workers come in for
carrot and celery or yoghurt whips. The
moderately interested may get as far as
the cafeteria section fairly orthodox
salads and wholemeal apple pies, but it
is in the sit-down section, with the lentil
rolls and nutmeat rissoles, that hardcore
vegetarianism flourishes.
If vegetarianism has flourished at all,
it is thanks to the late philanthropist Les-
lie Bailey, who founded the Natural
Health Society in 1960 on the proceeds
of the Chic Salons, which he later sold
for £1 i million to Woolworths.
For the young Leslie Bailey, wracked
with dizzy spells and a delicate stomach,
vegetarianism was a long way from the
workaday world of ladies’ underwear.
“I started as a junior, at 13, sweeping
the floor,” said Mrs M. Cockburn, now
president of the Hopewood Health Cen-
tre at Wallacia. “He used to send me
up three steps to the mezzanine floor in
one of the salons because he was too
tottery to walk. He fainted when he
came out of the surf, and when he pro-
posed toasts at weddings. The slightest
exertion was too much for him.
“It wasn’t until he was browsing
through a bookstore that it all started
to happen. He found a book by Hay
—you know, about the Hay Diet—and
showed it to his doctor. His doctor wasn’t
impressed but Leslie went ahead, and
that’s when it really started.”
The Natural Health Society came in
1960, when Bailey’s work with war-
deprived children was completed at the
two Hopewood Homes at Bowral the
old Hordern property and Darling
Point.
Hopewood Health Centre at Wallacia
was the apotheosis of Bailey’s dreams
for a sounder community through nat-
ural living. A former private hotel,
added to in various stages, it was opened
in 1960 and is run on a non-profit basis.
Bailey intended it to be a place where
frayed executives, younger brothers to
himself, could come for rest and pre-
babilitation before the onset of coron-
aries.
Mrs Cockburn was anxious that we
shouldn’t imagine the Natural Health
Society was anti-doctoi. “We have a lot
of doctor friends and supporters,” she
said, “but we do basically believe that
the body knows best how to cure itself
if it’s given a chance.”
Giving the body a chance, however, is
a hard grind for the mind. There is no
salt or pepper on the tables, no tea,
no coffee, no meat and of course no
smoking or drinking. There is a pub
some way down the road, near the golf
club, but the jugs of fruit juice in the
foyer probably work harder on the
guilty conscience than a brace of guard
dogs.


What a wine label tells you about
the wine it labels
On the neck of a bottle, you will find
the Vintage seal, which tells you
the year the wine was made, allowing
you to judge the 'age' that the wine
has achieved. In Australia, nearly every
year is a 'good' year for wine so
you don't have to memorise a long list
of 'special' years.
Dalwood is the name of the historic
Penfolds vineyard and winery in the
heart of the Hunter Valley birthplace of
many of Australia’s finest table wines.
Here is your assurance that there are
at least five or six'wineglassfulls'
the exact number depends on the
size of your wineglass.
:>■ •;
■ ;
BP
HI
m
V
ii
•a
WuC
‘itmrvr, BottlWf.
NSI ?Ft. t 02&
This is the name of the Vintner (the
man, family or firm that made the wine).
When the label of your wine reads
Penfolds, you know that the wine you
are about to enjoy is the product
of 121 years experience in winemaking.
Here you discover the character of
the wine. Hermitage is a variety
of grape, and Claret denotes a red wine
dry and light in body. It's especially
suitable for meals, particularly barbecues
and good traditional English Roast Beef.
However, don't feel that red wines •
must be served only with red meats
a claret can be equally delicious
with chicken or fish.
That's how easy and informative
reading a wine label can be.
Tonight, spend a couple of minutes
reading the label on the wine
you serve. In fact, why not start a
collection of wine labels.
BE WINE WISE CHOOSE
WINEMAKERS SINCE 1844
pwtooa


Residents are in two categories, guests,
who have come simply for a holiday,
and patients, who take various sorts of
naturopathic treatment, with an emphasis
on liquid diets, fasts and sunbathing.
So far executive guests have not reach-
ed expectations, although the better
front rooms, at £4/10/- a day with bath-
room, are as comfortable as the best
motel. The main clientele are middle-aged
people, about to be or already suffering
from arthritis, ulcers and blood pressure.
These, said the head naturopath, Mr
F. C. Hall, were patients on special diets
and non-medical forms of treatment, but
the four middle-aged men, pounding
their chests around the grape juice jug
before lunch, were obviously guests, in
search only of country peace and quiet.
Behind the Centre is a lush terrace of
organically grown vegetables—enormous
silverbeet, lettuces and something that
looked like tobacco but turned out to
be Russian comfrey and further down
the hill guests swim in a tributary of
the Nepean. It is very bushy, very Rous-
seau, and at least one pair of inmates
had passed up the icy water in favor
of other natural pursuits. But two others
had taken the plunge, and came gallop-
ing smartly through the cultivation patch
as the lunch hour approached.
Smorgasbord vegetarian lunches are
served to the public on Sundays at 10/-
a head, and consist of salads from the
organically grown vegetable plot, eggs,
cheese, nutmeats and baked potatoes in
jackets, plus fruit. After lunch we went
through the former ballroom, now a
gymnasium, to the consulting rooms to
talk to Mr Hall.
The office looked vaguely like a doc-
tor’s rooms, with retinal diagnosis charts
and shelves of books with titles like
Naturopathy versus Medicine which one
hopes the guests are allowed to borrow
for bedtime reading. Mr Hall, a balding
forty-year-old from the Victorian, British
and Australian Schools of Natural
Health, said he’d been in practice at
Surfers before coming to Hopewood.
He implied that there’d been plenty
of good raw material, but circumstances
were against actually converting anyone,
Theyd come around in the morn-
mgs for a steam bath and massage and
go out feeling fine but you knew it was
going to be a pretty short-lived thing,”
he said of his former businessman clients,
“Surfers is for living it up, I’m afraid.”
He spoke highly of Percy Cerutty, also
from the Melbourne school, and Murray
Rose. Their most famous patient to date,
television’s Maggie Tabberer, who went
to Hopewood for a reducing course, had
not been an unqualified success,
“It’s very hard for television people,”
Mrs Cockburn explained. “It would be
nice if we could get Dita Cobb, yes, or
Eric Baurr.e, but they’re both so pre-
judiced I doubt if we’d ever bring it off.”
Swain's Creative Writers
"This one says: 'I would like a grant to write
a book about Great Australians—starting
with the members of your advisory board'."
"Okay, you're a novelist's novelist. So try a
publisher's publisher."
"Tom writes books for children. Tom's
books are very nice. Tom's books have pretty
pictures. Children love Tom's nice books."
"If you could make the problems suggestive,
we might get it banned . .


EYE
LIKE A
HAWK
The Rokkor lens is the hawk-eye in all Minolta cameras-and especially
in the SR-1 and SR-7. Rokkor picks out the tiniest details, the smallest
movement. Rokkor gives accurate definition. Top Amateurs and Profes-
sionals out for photographic prey, use Minolta SR-1 or SR-7 cameras for
the sharpest results, and unequalled colour fidelity. More than 100 inter-
changeable lenses and accessory combinations make Minolta SR tha
finest and most versatile camera to own.
\m
m
"7
m
MINOLTA
SINGLE
LENS
REFLEX
21 -
1.4,
i ripnth
Single lens reflex interchangeable from 21
to 1000 mm. • Apochromatic Rokkor lens 1/,
1.8 and 2.0 with fully automatic diaphragm, depth . ...
of field preview. • Patented mirror action prevents vignetting even with largest tele-
lens. • Brightest viewfinder with disappearing microprism focusing. • Fully syn-
chronised focal plane shutter 2 sec. to 1/500-1/1000 sec. sejfttmw. .. Most senstoa
coupled CdS exposure meter . . . MINOLTA SR-1 from £68.0.0 ($136), SR 7 from
£84.19.0 ($169.99).
Minolta
. , . the name quality made famous.
A little Geisha comes
free with every Minolta.
Ask for Minolta at camera
dealers and chemists.
FREE Brochures from: PHOTIMPORT PTY. LTD.,
153 Barkly Street, EAST BRUNSWICK, Victoria. 38.6922
A Day’s
Outing
And 70,000 came to look
By MYFANWY GOLLAN
Would she rather go to the opening
of the Opera House or the open-
ing of something like the new
Roselands shopping centre?
“Oh, Roselands. It’s so beautiful and
they had a nice lot of bargains.”
“I liked the way they had the escala-
tors arranged,” said her friend. “They
should put the man who thought that
one up on to the Opera House and the
Eastern Suburbs Railway we might
get them finished then.
‘‘Mind you. It wasn’t all good. I would
have liked a proper lottery office.
They've only got an agency. You’ve got
to wait for your tickets, with an agency.”
The two women were middle-aged and
cheerful, one a honey-blonde grand-
mother, the other a copper-brown widow.
Their conversation on the thirty-minute
train ride into the city was mainly about
Roselands with a few asides on:
Happiness. “You’d need a lot of
money for some of those things at Rose-
lands, but money doesn’t buy happiness.”
War. “There’s certainly going to be a
war. Those American planes aren’t flying
over Sydney, practising for nothing.”
God. “I think everything will be all
right if you believe in God. That gives
you peace of mind.”
The Opera House. “Why don’t they
use that money building a hospital for
the blind?”
But what they talked about most was
one of Sydney’s newest diversions one
of the world’s if it comes to that. This
phenomenon of modern life is going off
for a day’s outing to another suburb to
look at a new shopping centre.
The newest of these centres is Rose-
lands, a 30-acre, £6 million, air-condi-
tioned, all-under-one-roof, three-storied
“shopping-community centre”, 10 miles
south-west of the city, built on a former
golf course virtually in the middle of
nowhere.
And summoned by the call of news-
paper, television and radio campaigns,
and by word-of-mouth, 70,000 people
(including a surprising number of men
for a weekday) went there last week for
its opening day.
They didn’t come just from the dozens
of suburbs that Roselands will serve.
Some of them came 20 miles or more
by train and three different buses. They
came, talking like experts in their subject,
comparing Roselands with the Warringah
Mall, the Village at Kings Cross, the
Irondale at French’s Forest, present and
planned developments at Hillsdale, Parra-
matta, Chatswood, St Ives, Double Bay,
Gordon, Pymble, and at suburbs that for
me exist only in a road directory. The
glories that were Greece and the wonders
that are Rome couldn’t have keener
students.
They came to look. They came for an
event; the queues outside the cafes and
food bars and the lavatories stood as
silent tribute to their dedication.
As a nation of shoppers we are,
apparently, sent running by the combina-
tion of the words “new” and “shopping
centre”. We were tike a Royal Easter
Show sideshow crowd clutching sample
bags wrapped in tasteful rose-patterned
paper. Anyone who had whispered ‘‘l
can get it for you wholesale” would have
been tooted out of the carpark.
Perhaps what the project manager is
reported to have said is significant.
“Roselands is at the heart of one of the
best trading areas in Sydney. Here we
have 714,000 potential customers within
20 minutes’ drive of the centre. Family
incomes in the area are very high, and


per head spending is within a negligible
fraction of that of the lower North
Shore. Better than that, Roselands’ cus-
tomers spend their money on the sort of
things our stores sell; North Shore
people spend much of theirs on other
things travel, education . . .”
What does a shopping centre like
Roselands offer? It has a number of
novelties that are supposed to make the
shopper’s task easier and more enjoyable.
But it is doubtful if it would offer any-
thing to suburbs with established shop-
ping centres. Its great virtue is that
with a department store (the project’s
originator) and 95 other firms it provides
centralised services where there were
none before. And in our stretching cities
that is providing for a very real need.
“I expect it will put a lot of small
shops out of business,” said a woman
who runs a local embroidery business.
“But it’s good for me. The beads they sell
are expensive but if I’ve needed a
few beads to finish embroidering a wed-
ding dress I’ve had to have a taxi bring
them from town and that adds more
than £1 to the cost of cheaper beads.”
Roselands must be the most twentieth-
century thing to have happened to this
piece of Sydney sprawl (apart from the
sprawl itself). “Of course, all those new
clubs, the RSL and the Leagues’ Clubs,
put the golf course out of business. Once
there were only golf clubs to go to, and
Roselands was one of the prettiest and
gayest,” said a woman who has known
the district for longer than car parks
have been necessary.
Roselands is Contemporary Interna-
tional in style. Its design and decoration
(the raindrop and copper rose fountains,
the fibreglass animals for children to
climb on) add a lot to the area it serves.
But they don’t stun the eye of critical
beholders used to any number of pretty
arcades and modern department stores.
“I thought all those little food bars
would be outside, not down in that base-
ment-like thing. I thought we’d be able to
sit outside like you can at the Kings Cross
Village. And I thought there would be
a big rooftop restaurant right on top with
glass all the way round so that you could
look at all of Sydney.” (But things are
arranged so that you look into Rose-
lands, not out of it.)
The speaker went on. “And I lost my
way, too. But I suppose you’d learn
where everything is.”
These carping notes didn’t come from
an Australian maybe we take our
pleasures uncritically, with gratitude. Her
voice owed more to the south-west of
England than the south-west of Sydney.
“Why did I come?” She pointed at her
10-year-old Australian-born son. “He
made me. He likes to , see all the new
shops.”
Perhaps the Opera House needs a bar-
gain basement.
Patterson of the North
The man who was transferred
By BRIAN JOHNS
“Patterson would win easily if the elections were held tomorrow.” The chagrin
in the Federal Government member’s voice was understandable. As the endorsed
ALP candidate for the Queensland seat of Dawson, Dr Rex Patterson represents
much more than a threat to one Government-held seat. His prestige as the former
head of the Federal Government’s much-vaunted spearhead in the development of
northern Australia, the Northern Division, will make him an embarrassment to
the Liberal and Country Party coalition throughout Queensland and in Western
Australia at the next Federal elections.
The position of the 39-year-old Dr
Rex Patterson is made no less remark-
able by his previous scant personal in-
volvement in party politics. When Dr
Patterson told the Secretary of the De-
partment of National Development, Mr
R. Boswell, 10 minutes after the close
of work that Wednesday, August 18,
that he intended seeking ALP endorse-
ment, he stunned others as well as his
departmental superior. For one thing, the
situation was without precedent in the
Commonwealth Public Service. Other
members had resigned to contest elec-
tions, but none had held either the rank
or the politically sensitive position of Dr
Patterson.
This helps to explain, although cer-
tainly not to justify, the harsh jabs at
Dr Patterson by Government members in
Parliament. But the jabs were a mistake
because they undoubtedly swung sym-
pathy behind Dr Patterson within the
public service and, more importantly,
in his home State of Queensland. The
Minister for National Development, Mr
David Fairbairn, announced Dr Patter-
son’s plans by way of a reply to a
“Dorothy Dix” question from young
Queensland Liberal backbencher, Dr
Wylie Gibbs, who queried whether it was
true that Dr Patterson had “offered his
services as a socialist ALP candidate”.
In his reply Mr Fairbairn made the un-
fortunate aside that he “did not realise
that he had any socialist sympathies of
any sort”.
There was no chance that public ser-
vice resentment to this remark would be
cushioned by Mr Fairbairn’s affirmation
of the traditional position that a public
servant’s politics are his own business,
even though he added that any member
of the service had the right to contest an
election but must resign to do so. The
Prime Minister, Sir Robert Menzies, did
not ease the situation any with the tone
of his intervention at Question Time a
week later to defend the Government’s
decision to transfer Dr Patterson from
his post as Director of the Northern
Division. Sir Robert told the House that
as an ALP candidate Dr Patterson could
“no longer decently expect” to have ac-
cess to intimate Cabinet information and
that such a position would be “mon-
strous”.
Most public servants, as Dr Patterson
said in his own defence in a later public
statement, appreciated the Government’s
dilemma. Friends of Dr Patterson believe
that he would have stood down volun-
tarily from his position but for Mr Fair-
bairn’s unfortunate remarks in Par-
liament. There were reports also
that Mr Boswell asked Dr Patterson,
after Mr Fairbairn’s reply in the House,
to put in a written request for a transfer
on the grounds that he could no longer
carry out his duties. This, too, was re-
sented because public servants do not
want it held that involvement in party
politics necessarily precludes them from
doing their job.
However, apart from the reasons for
the Government’s decision to remove
Dr Patterson from his job and place him
in the splendid isolation of a senior as-
sistant-secretary in National Develop-
ment, “to advise the Government on
high-level research and investigation on
problems concerning northern Australia”,
public servants are concerned about the
way the transfer was carried out. It is
still not clear just who will constitute
the panel to hear Dr Patterson’s appeal
to the Public Service Board, or when the
appeal will be held.
Meanwhile, Dr Patterson—still draw-
ing his salary of £4BOO a year—apparent-
ly has no more to do than cogitate on
his possible future in Parliament House,
which can be glimpsed from his spacious
office in the nearby Administrative Build-
ing. The publicity he has received in the
Queensland Press in particular will be
some consolation. Perhaps his greatest
satisfaction came from reading his home-
town paper, the “Bundaberg News-Mail”,
editorial the day after Mr Fairbairn’s
reply in the House of Representatives.
Under the headline “It’s a Dirty Game”
the “News-Mail” protested: “What
specious nonsense and rotten political
tactics”.
But Dr Patterson will not be able to
take his enforced idleness easily. A short,
thickening man, who is lazily dressed,
Patterson has the reputation of a prodi-
gious worker, who, since joining the
public service in 1949, has made 60-hour


weeks his rule and annual holidays the
exception. Until he was appointed
from 80 applicants the first Director
of the Northern Division after the
Federal Government’s promises of a
new burst in northern development
in the 1963 elections, Dr Patterson had
spent his public service career in the
Bureau of Agricultural Economics. It
had been a highly impressive career.
When he joined the BAE after taking
an economics decree at the Univershv
of Queensland Patterson was im-
mediately thrust back into the problems
of Queensland development which he
oi development, wmcn
haH Iparnprl at first-hanrl on hit; uncle’s
naa learned at nrsi-nana on ms unties
(another uncle is the Minister for
Primary Industry, Country Party man.
Mr Adermann) cane farm at Goobur-
rum, outside Bundaberg, where he had
lived until he was 18. In his years at the
BAE he was to spend up to nine months
a year doing field investigations into the
beef, dairy, sugar and cotton industries.
He spent much of the time in the Fitzroy
Basin area in his future arena of political
contest, Dawson Patterson was one of
file top authorities on beef roads and
the clearing of brigalow country for
development by 1957, when he went to
the United States on a Fullbright scholar-
ship and a grant awarded by the Austra-
lian cattle industry.
In his three years in the United States,
Patterson completed his doctoral thesis
on transport development in northern
Australia, concentrating on beef roads.
When he returned to Australia things
really began to happen. Australia’s
balance-of-payments prospects were grim,
so Patterson was given the go-ahead to
draw U P a case for the development of
beef roads for the cattle industr y- Then
> here ™ ‘he 1961
hen the Menz,es Government was
shaken to a razor-thin majority, and
anxious for the climb back to security
~, . .
by the res toration of its prestige in
Queensland.
Patterson’s plan for beef roads was
endorsed by the Federal Government to
the tune of £lB million—£B.3 million
for Queensland, £6 million for the Nor-
them Territory, £3| million for Western
Australia. The brigalow clearing was put
under way in Central Queensland with
two parts of his three-phase programme
being completed a great deal in the
Dawson electorate at the cost of
£73 million.
All this seemed to be only a small
beginning when Patterson was appoint-
ed to the Northern Division. His
high optimism of the time can be seen
in a paper Dr Patterson delivered at the
Rockhampton branch of the Australian
Institute of Management in June last
year: “I believe that Australia has started
on the gigantic task of developing the
north and, providing development is
soundly based, the nation can confidently
expect the wholehearted support of both
the Commonwealth and State Govern-
ments.
“I believe, therefore, that the first
major break-through has been achieved
_ the development of northern Australia
j s now a s t a ted policy of the Federal
. T ~ , f D . o
Government. In the words ot our Prime
w . .
Minister, The development of northern
Australia is of great importance to all of
us - are entering a phase of develop-
ment more exciting than ever before,
There were some 880 applicants for
the Division’s first 16 positions. Patter-
son was talking jubilantly to friends of
the prospects of obtaining key engineers,
agricultural scientists, economists, vet-
erinary scientists, geologists, agricultural
and mineral economists, for his pro-
jected three division branches
project evaluation, policy examination,
resources data. Yet it was not long be-
fore public service circles began hum-
Tanner
at the Fellowship of Australian Writers
“ . . . Listen to this! The World Bank hasn’t got a
brass farthing to jingle on a gravestone . . .” J. T. Lang
was addressing the Fellowship of Australian Writers,
Sydney. The topic “Writers I have known.”
The names flowed on Otto Niemeyer, Philip
Game. It was the literature he knew best. The Saga of
the Big Fellah . . . “Fearless people who have been
non-conformists”. Henry Lawson looked from his
book-shaped cut-out at Henry Handel Richardson while
the biggest non-conformist in the room played his
audience by ear.
His main theme was THEY. THEY tell us brain-
washing is a Communist technique. Look at your
television. Read your newspapers. Sometimes THEY
were the trade unions trying to run the “Labor Daily”.
Then THEY was the “Bulletin”. (Never know to meet
them THEY had any education; no side at all.) THEY
were the banks. (The banks were never friends of the
people.)
As THEY followed THEY with bewildering change
of identity one realised that he was very old. It was
the only sign. The gestures can be seen in any picture
of him from the ’thirties. The high, sexless voice was the
one heard in Parliamentary broadcasts. “If I have
entertained you I am happy. If I have annoyed anyone
I won’t apologise. If I have made any of you think
a little more, then I am thankful.” We all sighed happily
and thought a little more about the depression.


You are welcomed as a friend
at Tokyo’s Marunouchi Hotel
Coming to Japan ? People who seem to
know you await your visit at the Marunouchi
Hotel. We've had years of experience in
making Australian guests comfortable.
Conveniently located one block from
Tokyo Central Station, we offer the quiet
hospitality you've told us you like. Fine
food and modern facilities are only part
of the story.
You'll be pleased to find large-size beds,
individual air conditioning controls and
many other extras in your room. Come
sample the essence of Japanese "shibui"
at the Marunouchi Hotel.
DAILY ROOM RATES
All rooms with bath
Management: T. KOBAYASHI & SON
Cable: MARUHOTE TOKYO Tel: 231-0271
qllf?
eJ\h
e )HjiMnmckiJfc>tet
ming with accounts of Treasury and Nor-
them Division power struggles.
Patterson was understood to have
lodged claims for more staff for his pro-
ject evaluation branch. After a bitter
contest, Treasury approved 12 new posi-
tions, but that was apparently to be the
end of Patterson’s gains. He is known to
have submitted fresh applications “as a
matter of urgency” for staff for his
policy and resources branches eight
months ago, with still no sign of Treasury
action. This is not surprising. These two
branches provide the greatest area of
conflict between Treasury and the Nor-
thern Division.
Patterson’s ideas could not be fleshed
out into successful Cabinet submissions
without staff, so for Treasury habitu-
ally sceptical about northern develop-
ment the obvious technique to deploy
against the risk of a Northern Division
clutch at the purse-strings was by just
not providing it with staff.
The Northern Division is known
to have submitted to Cabinet a com-
prehensive analysis for a network of
development roads for the whole of
northern Australia. The Division has
estimated that the network would cost
between £7O and £lOO million which it
submits should be spent over the next
10 to 15 years.
Patterson has made it clear in his
many papers in learned journals and to
professional groups safety valves
for articulate public servants that he
regards the beef industry as northern
Australia’s outstanding development pros-
pect. “There can be little argument that
of the major primary industries in Am-
tralia, the beef cattle industry, over time,
is the one which faces the brightest
future,” Dr Patterson told the annual
meeting of the Australian Veterinary As-
sociation in Brisbane in May.
He sees the key to the problem of the
cattle industry and for that matter
the cotton, sugar and other tropical in-
dustries —in the north as the supply
of finance, particularly during the
development period. He has advocated
the establishment of a Northern Develop-
ment Fund providing long-term finance
with special provisions to tide borrowers
over what he has described as “the
honeymoon period” of about five years,
which it takes for improvements to yield
dividends,
Although it could be expected other-
wise with a man of such marked in-
dividuality (not to say his recent ex-
perience), Dr Patterson has a high sense
that programmes for the north must be
anchored in the traditional policy frame-
work of Cabinet. It should not be a
matter for statutory authorities or other
quasi-independent bodies.
He suggested his view of what should
be the machinery for the development of
the north in a paper he delivered in Perth
in February on “The New Role of
Government in Northern Australia”. It
was a paper which the Prime Minister,
Sir Robert Menzies, was reported to have
been much upset by as being remarkably
close to ALP policy. He suggested:
• The establishment of a separate
Ministry for northern Australia pos-
sessing an annual budget for the im-
plementation of development activities.
Development projects, particularly those
involving wide policy ramifications,
would require Federal Cabinet approval.
• The establishment of a Statutory
Constructing Authority to construct and
supervise, in co-operation with the
States, development programmes hand-
ed down by the Ministry.”
Doubtless, this structure was Dr Pat-
terson’s ideal framework within which
to work for the development of north-
ern Australia. But it is certain that he
was eager to serve with the lesser equip-
ment the Northern Division with its
inevitable limitations as a mere append-
age of the unwieldy Department of
National Development. What was needed
to hold the services of this dedicated
and valuable public servant was no more,
but no less, than a willingness by the
Federal Government to come to grips
with the problems of northern develop-
ment. However, it has shown not the
slightest sign of doing this.
Right until the Budget was handed
down Dr Patterson is believed to have
been postponing his final decision to
enter politics in the hope that the Fede-
ral Government would give some tan-
gible evidence of realistic support for a
programme of northern development. It
was not forthcoming. In Queensland,
the State Dr Patterson believes to be
most immediately favored for develop-
ment, the only additional expenditure
approved was £700,000 a loan with
interest for facilities at the overseas-
owned mineral leases of Weipa.
Across the north the picture looks
.unpromising for development. Treasury
has staved off a firm Commonwealth
commitment to the Ord River scheme
in the west. Dr Patterson has been
critical of this scheme but he now
believes it deserves support.
Still, the political pressure he has
created for the Federal Government may
yet see the Government implementing a
good measure of the ideas that Dr Pat-
terson and his small band in the
Northern Division have brought for-
ward. But there will still be a good
chance that Dr Patterson will be
gingering the Government to greater
efforts after the next elections from the
Opposition backbench as the Member
for Dawson.


AROUND MELBOURNE
You Can’t Get Much Lusher
“My girls are all hand-picked”
IV/fooNEE Ponders were terribly nice
■*■*■*■ about what Barry Humphries said
about Moonee Ponds. His poetic words
about Highett we took jolly well, and
we even endured his recent reference
to Balwyn. But now he has gone too
far. He says that he finds Melbourne
“rather more dull” than it was three
years ago.
Look what has happened since then!
At long last we have washed the statue
of General Gordon in Spring Street,
we have put “bunnies” into the Play-
boy Club, “kittens” into the Riverside,
we have banned, and unbanned, all
sorts of books and some of our in-
quiries have been real rippers. There
were sections of that Scientology
inquiry which were too obscene to
print, even in 1965. We have gone
crazy for discotheques.
There’s one called the Thumping
Turn and you know the dear old
Oriental? In the old days it had,
shall we say, Melbourne’s most taste-
ful dining-room, lofty ceiling, stained-
glass windows, stiff white tablecloths:
I mean in the words of Mr H. it was
“nicer than your own home”. Now
the Oriental has no “main” dining-
room. Two weeks ago it opened as the
Persian Room Discotheque. Now it’s
all dark in there with lashings of gold,
glass beads, harem screens, tent-like
alcoves, and great Persian cat god-
desses everywhere. They have a high-
powered ensemble which operates with
high-powered hi-fi and 500 records.
Dull? Gee.
But that’s not all. On October 21
The Fabulous Lido opens. The
Lido is a theatre-restaurant, only
that’s just between us, you understand.
In this curious part of the world it is
against the law -Jo serve drinks at
theatres, so we'll just call it the Lido.
David Hamilton Mcllwraith, on his
own, has put up all the money. At 41,
Mr Mcllwraith is an ex-Scotch College
boy and a millionaire, and showing all
the signs that he will give the theatre
business a helluva shake in this
country. Indeed, things are shaking
quite a bit already. He brought out
Les Ballets Africains. He now has the
rights for the Southern Hemisphere.
He has them, opening in Israel on
April 18, and soon he hopes to get
world rights.
He’s a former dancer and choreo-
grapher. What’s more, he looks like
a dancer and choreographer. He wears
very tight suits and short jackets. He’s
a descendant of the Mcllwraiths who
founded the Mcllwraith - McEacharn
shipping line, but his side of the fam-
ily was more interested in Mcllwraith
Industries, lead-smelting, hardware,
etc. Then six or seven years ago,
when he was dancing overseas, his
grandfather left him a fortune.
But let’s first talk about the Lido.
Your correspondent has just had a
sneak preview. It is in a £ 1-million
building on the site of the old
Savoy which, you will be startled to
learn, was once a temperance hall.
This building has the Lido in the base-
ment, then seven floors of car parking,
then an office tower above that. Mc-
llwraith doesn’t own it - he just rents
his space. Inside the Lido there’s a
series of descending tiers down to a
whopping stage, almost the size of the
stage of Her Majesty's. What’s more it
is the latest thing in revolving stages.
There is a water curtain so that they
can get fancy rain effects, and there
is a space there for ice skating. Mr
Mcllwraith is putting on “Champagne
on Ice” in February.
T)lease forgive the word “lush”, but
you couldn’t get things much
lusher —that’s where the half-million
has gone. Right through there’s a vivid
green carpet, and vivid green walls.
There’s gold all over the place, a gold
balustrade with crystal balusters. There
are six great chandeliers including a
whopper in the foyer. These are
antiques imported from Egypt. There
are divans here and there covered in
leopard skin. Against that green carpet
the tables, with their white linen, look
pretty dandy and on each there is a
candle with crystal storm shade.
But you should see the ladies’ and
gentlemen’s lavatories. These are done
out in gold leaf mosaic tile. I asked a
workman how much it cost and he said
“Fifty-three quid a yard.” I laughed
as one does on such occasions. “Look,
mate,” he said. “If you don’t believe
me, here’s the invoice.” He was right.
It read £53 6s. 6d. a yard. The gold
mosaic looked very fetching, all around
the individual urinals. Then up above
was gold-striped wall paper in broad
stripes. Price for a Lido evening, I
was told, was £3 17s. 6d. and this in-
cluded the 90-minute show, dancing,
dinner and car parking above. For
dinner you get four courses which in-
clude such items as huitre naturel,
coeurs d’artichaut mousselaine, vichs-
soise, coquilles St Jacques indienne,
foies de volailles chasseur, escapol de
veau a la creme, etc. Drinks are ex-
tra, so if you plan to entertain your
lady you had better have a tenner
in your pocket.
Already there are 41 permanent
employees on the theatre side of the
show, and that is costing between
£2OOO and £3OOO a week. Your corres-
pondent told Mr Mcllwraith he was
convinced that he would lose a bundle.
But Mr Mcllwraith is quite undeter-
red. He wants his floor show to be
terrific. He is opening with the comedy
mime act of George and Bert Bernard.
“Everybody has been after them for
years,” he said. “My girls are all hand-
picked. They’re long-legged. The
shortest of them in 5' 8", and some of
them in their heels go to six feet.”
At the moment all drinks will have to
go off at 10 p.m. unless he can get
special licences and he will be depend-
ing utterly on receiving great kindness
from Mr Bolte’s new liquor legislation.
But he went on. “You can see what
I’m after. I wanted something in Mel-
bourne just like the Lido in Paris.”
Your correspondent, who has vivid
picture memories of the Lido in
Paris, said with some excitement: “Six-
foot girls with birdcages on their
heads and nothing below.” “No,” said
Mr Mcllwraith wearily, “I’ve already
had my baretops expedition with the
African dancers. And besides it’s now
not as easy as you think. To do that
the girls have to be absolutely perfect.
And I tell you to get those Lido blue
belles they combed the entire world.”
Yes, Mr Mcllwraith, who could
have retired happily with his millions,
has dreams perhaps of a Lido in
Sydney, perhaps his own theatres in
Melbourne and Sydney. Who knows?
BATMAN


OVERSEAS
Where the
Africans Know
Their Place
From ROY PERROTT in Salisbury
The unpolitical tourist in Rhodesia
might well wonder, looking around
Salisbury, what all the drama of the Lon-
don independence talks was about. Where
Is this deprived and repressed African
majority, this crypto-Fascist white dom-
ination that critics describe?
The African waiters in the hotels are
anxious to please. The Africans in the
shabbier back streets indeed look des-
perately poor and bored: but if they
feel frustrated they seldom express it
in violence. Over the generations they
have learned to know their place.
This picture only shows a very Eng-
lish ability to put a sunny surface on a
situation which is full of conflict and self-
deceptions and growing areas of tension
between blacks and whites.
These have not by any means been
the sole creation of Mr lan Smith’s party,
the Rhodesian Front. But in the few
months it has been in power, the stifling
of the aspirations of the African majority
(four million against 220,000 white resi-
dents) has rapidly become more system-
atic, aggressive and unashamed.
In these repressive measures the Front
probably has the support of 90 per cent
of the white population; and it has
created an atmosphere (certainly less
hypocritical than in Federation days) in
which, at white parties, it is fashionable
to talk with open contempt of the Afri-
cans and their handful of liberal sup-
porters.
One of the odder things is the instant
readiness of newly arrived white immi-
grants, whatever their previous politics,
to adopt these attitudes quite vehemently.
A barman in a Salisbury hotel said to
me, in a thick Glasgow accent: “I hate
the sight of the blacks . . . they’re all
so bloody stupid. The wife says they give
her the creeps. Apart from them it’s the
greatest country in the world.” The Afri-
can helpmate at his elbow stared back
impassively, then just went on washing
glasses.
The barman has been here 10 years,
but regards himself as Rhodesian and is
behind “good old Smithy” against Wilson
all the way. From various enterprises
he said he earned just over £2OOO a year,
pays only £2OO a year in tax, has a car
and swimming pool, and generally agreed
that he was all right, Jack, (ofns.)
The Lone Pilot
Playing close to the chest
IAN SMITH
lan Smith is a hard man to assess. His image is that of a frank, uncompromising
leader typified by Verwoerd, Salazar and de Gaulle, the three leaders he most
admires. But he can be as subtle as Harold Wilson and he has been accused of
deviousness not only by political opponents but even by critics inside his own party,
the Rhodesian Front.
He plays his cards close to his chest.
Tall, a typical Rugby footballer in ap-
pearance, his poker manner of solid con-
fidence and imperturbability is assisted
by his unsmiling and almost unchanging
facial expressions—the result of a skin-
grafting operation necessitated by in-
juries after he was shot down as a fighter
pilot. His whole style, indeed, is that
of the lone pilot, but this role carried
over into politics has not made him an
ideal Cabinet leader.
His Rhodesian Front is a hotchpotch
of the country’s most conservative
elements, ranging from outspoken sup-
porters of apartheid and anti-Communist
zealots to more sophisticated Right-
wingers, who once formed the core of
British jingoism in the colonial society.
The two dominant groups within it are
the well-to-do Rhodesian tobacco farmers
and the white artisan class who cling
desperately to an industrial and social
color bar.
In 1962 the Front was able to sweep
the more flexible Sir Edgar Whitehead
out of office in Southern Rhodesia,
largely as a reaction to the impending
break-up of the Central African Federa-
tion and to events in the Congo.
Its battle cry was white survival in
the face of “black dictatorship”; its
mood was white self-determination and
its aim was to stem African nationalism
at the Zambezi River (the frontier with
Northern Rhodesia, now Zambia). The
immediate enemies were African nation-
alists (“the vanguard of the Communists”)
and British politicians (w'ho had “be-
trayed” their “kith and kin” over Federa-
tion and who were too weak-kneed to
stand up to the “UN and the Afro-
Asians”).
For the Front’s first leader, Smith
supported Winston Field, a British-born
farmer. But not long after becoming
Prime Minister, Field began to develop
doubts about the wisdom of pushing
Rhodesia into independence by uncon-
stitutional action, and in April, 1963, he
was hustled out of office by a Cabinet
cabal led by Smith and Harper.
Smith was the colony’s first Rhodesian-
born Premier since it achieved internal
self-government in 1923. He was born
three years earlier, the son of a rural
butcher and farmer who had come to
settle as a pioneer in 1898; he speaks of
his father as “one of the greatest cattle-
men this country has ever seen”. He


Dinner for two
a 4
i k :
■i i
!
H f
rn
l i J 3
r
/
or a sumptuous banquet
Whatever your taste in food from the
simple to the sumptuous Menzies can
cater for it. Right in the centre of
Sydney, Menzies offers beautifully
appointed bedrooms, with individually
controlled air-conditioning, genuine 24-
hour room service, and free in-hotel
parking for your car. Menzies wide
range of restaurants brings you food
from the four corners of the world!
Emperor Room Nightclub features gourmet
menu with floor show nightly at 9.30.
Single rooms from 5 gns. Doubles from
£6.15.0. (Special rates for children.)
■Mfjimti b
"HfLRHJSiL nn'Bfi pn!
nr nr nn rr jr
rp. rr r r rr. rn pp p p
TiJLßE_nn-P.p_n.p. r r _ r r
fin pp pp p.p .nn rr rr.
ELtLEE PE BE. E-B PP . B.E
JiFI_PP. PP PP RR P P f R
n n nn..rr nr rn fir r r
r n nr nr rr rn rr nn
r rcnnirunm r tuic, " ~
Menzies
Sydney
Hotel
MZI/34
14 CARRINGTON ST. TELEPHONE 2-0232 CABLES “MENZOTEL” SYDNEY.
For immediate reservations eontact: VICTORIA— Menzies, MELBOURNE; Savoy Plaza, MELBOURNE;
Hotel Federal, MELBOURNE. QUEENSLAND-Lennons, BRISBANE; Lennons. TOOWOOMBA; Lennons. GOLD COAST.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— HoteI Australia. NORTH ADELAIDE. TASMANIA—Wrest Point Riviera. HOBART.
went to school at Chaplin in Gwelo
(where he now has two sons) and then
to Rhodes University College in South
Africa (where his daughter is a student).
After taking an economics degree he
enlisted in the RAF in 1941. He was
shot down twice. The first time was in
the Western Desert (it was then that he
had the skin-grafting operation). Within
six months he was back in the air. Soon
afterwards he was shot down again over
the Po Valley in Italy. He spent five
months with the Italian partisans—“ They
were very pleased to have someone of
my calibre,” he says. “I often took a
leading part in their operations.” He
succeeded in crossing the Alps alone,
and ended the war as a flight-lieutenant
flying Spitfires in north-east Europe.
rpHE war gave him enormous self-con-
fidence, and it awakened his interest
in politics. After being demobbed in
1946 he became a farmer. (He owns a
4500-acre farm and a 6000-acre cattle
ranch, but nowadays he has little time
for farming; he and his wife live in the
Rhodesian Prime Minister’s residence in
Salisbury.) In 1948 he was elected to the
Southern Rhodesian Parliament.
As an MP he was a poor debater,
well liked but not highly rated until in
M 961 he surprisingly walked out as
Chief Whip of Sir Roy Welensky’s
Federal Party in protest against Southern
Rhodesia’s new Constitution, which for
him enshrined racialism “in a most
diabolical way”.
However, his career took a strange
turn after he became Premier. He likes
the 1961 Constitution no better than he
did, but he has since made it the corner-
stone of his negotiations, insisting that
it represents the limit white Rhodesians
are prepared to “sacrifice” as the price
for independence.
The British Government, however, has
never looked on the 1961 Constitution
as more than a transitional stage towards
independence. As it stands it ensures
y white minority rule for an indefinite
period. That precisely accords with
Smith’s own ideas and this conflict is
the nub of the present crisis.
It is difficult to understand how the
British ever thought they could get Smith
to agree to a Constitution which would
safely entrust the future of four million
Africans to his Government. He has ex-
plicity repeated over and over again
that “if we ever have an African majority
in this country we shall have failed in
our policy of trying to make a place for
the white man”. And he has refused to
rule out the possibility of one day having
to resort to a policy of apartheid.
(OFNS.)


How much
over the award
are you paying?
Studies made at the University of Sydney
indicate that in 1953-54, average over-award
payments in industry amounted to 10% of
the award wage. Today the figure has risen
to as much as 30%. In another ten years,
the extra percentage may well climb to
50%.
Over-award payments are made for only
one reason: to get good men who can pro-
duce well. Productivity is the key to indus-
trial success.
Yet the best man, however much you pay
him, is limited by the efficiency of the
equipment and procedures he works with.
This is particularly true in industrial weld-
ing.
We are proud of our welding machines
and electrodes. Yet we believe the most
important thing Lincoln Electric does for
our customers is to help them get maximum
welding productivity. This comes only from
using welding equipment and procedures in
the most efficient way.
In helping our customers determine how
to raise welding productivity, the man from
Lincoln draws on our organisation’s world-
wide knowledge, on our continuous research
and development work, and on the experi-
ence we have gained in becoming Aus-
tralia’s largest manufacturer of arc welding
equipment.
If welding is important in your operations,
you have the right to expect this sort of
help. It is included in the cost of machines
and electrodes. The man from Lincoln is
ready to offer it.
THE LINCOLN ELECTRIC COMPANY
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • NEW ZEALAND
CONGO
Without Tshomhe
Moise Tshombe’s name was inscribed
last week after those of his
ancient rivals, Patrice Lumumba and
Cyrille Adoula on the roster of
Congolese Premiers who did themselves
in by thinking they could cross Presi-
dent Joseph Kasavubu. Like his prede-
cessors, the Katangan offended the Presi-
dent by seeking to govern the country
with a national party loyal to himself
alone, a scheme of things that omitted
Mr Kasavubu.
The cause of their quarrel was a con-
stitutional schedule that had the Presi-
dent naming a new Premier six months
before he himself was to come up for re-
election. To keep his job Mr Tshombe
had to convince Mr Kasavubu that he
would not challenge him for the Presi-
dency. The only way he could do this
was to head what the President called
“a Government of National Union"
that is, one which included political
leaders loyal to Mr Kasavuba, instead of
Mr Tshombe.
Tshome's greatest successes proved to
be his ultimate undoing. The very pro-
gress of the efforts he directed to crush
the rebellion made him dispensable; the
victory of his party, the Congolese
National Convention, in last spring’s
general election made him a threat to
the President.
VIETNAM
Victory ?
Optimism has always been more pre-
valent and far more popular
than pessimism among the American
community in Vietnam. Yet there have
been many signs that the long-range
trend of the war against the Communists
has been inexorably unfavorable and
that short-term, present trends should be
viewed within that context. For example,
in 1962 the regular “hard core” Viet-
cong guerrilla force was estimated at
about 18,000 men. Today it is estimated
at 75,000 men. In April, 1963, Ameri-
can generals were saying the war would
be won within a year, and by late sum-
mer Defence Secretary Robert Mc-
Namara said that all American troops
could be withdrawn by the end of 1965.
In early 1964 the Americans decided
to make populous Longan Province, just
south of Saigon, a model or test case of
anti - Communist pacification methods.
The programme has since been shelved
and the Vietcong are still strong in
Longan.
The present military trends, however,
are unquestionably favorable. Between


December of last year and June ot tms
the Vietcong had staged at least a dozen
regimental-sized attacks. But with the
arrival of more and more American
troops and improved morale and per-
formance of the South Vietnamese
forces, the Vietcong have become much
more cautious and have seldom massed
in regiments. United States strength in
Vietnam now is nearly 145,000 men
an increase of 115,000 since President
Johnson first made his “unconditional
discussions” offer last April and is
expected to jump to 200,000 by the end
of this year.
As part of its general armed forces
buildup, as a consequence of the Viet-
nam commitment, the United States
Defence Department last week ordered
a military draft of 45,224 men for
December the biggest quota since the
Korean War.
CUBA
Refugees
A procession of small boats chugged
across the rainswept Florida Straits
last week under the solicitous eye of the
United States Coast Guard and the
rather frustrated eye of the State Depart-
ment. Amid all the perennial difficulties
of the Cuban revolution, Premier Fidel
Castro was once more demonstrating his
ability to make political capital out of
what, by all rules of logic, should be
drastic political liabilities.
The script was all wrong. Hundreds
of Cubans were hastening to the ram-
shackle out-of-the-way port of Camarioca
in response to telegrams from relatives
advising the Ministry of the Interior
that they were coming across the Straits
to pick them up. Assuming that a pro-
cedure for setting up air or ship trans-
portation is worked out between Havana
and Washington, the prospect was that
tens of thousands of Cubans would
queue up to vote with their feet on
how they felt about Castro’s regime.
This, by all rights, should be a moral
' defeat for Castro and a clear opportunity
for the US to demonstrate once more its
thesis that the Cuban revolution has
become a cruel burden to its people.
Yet it was in Camarioca where all the
fanfare was being organised: photo-
graphers, interviews with the departing
refugees, extensive coverage by the con-
trolled Cuban Press of the facilities being
extended by the Government.
In Washington, on the other hand,
there was considerably less enthusiasm.
There was simple concern about the
problems of personal safety, of loading
and feeding and of security that would
be involved in any extensive small boat
movement.
NEW YORK NEWSLETTER
24 Days Without the Times
Newspapers' automation strike
From GEORGE McGANN
Resumption of publication this week by New York newspapers, which had been
on strike or locked out for 24 days, has brought only an armed truce not a long-
range settlement or any real prospect of eventual peace to the unions and manage-
ments embroiled in this fierce and continuing struggle.
This was the third major battle in
three years between the bitterly opposed
forces in the newspaper industry in this
city, and although not as long as the
144-day work stoppage of 1962, its re-
sults could be equally tragic. As a re-
sult of the 1962 strike the “New York
Mirror” died, throwing thousands of
men and women out of work. Any day
now we expect to hear of the merger
of the two major afternoon newspapers,
the “New York World-Telegram and
Sun”, and the “New York Journal-
American”, with the consequent firing
of hundreds of people, as the result of
the latest concessions by management to
the unions involved in the controversy.
(A third newspaper, the “New York
Herald - Tribune”, long in
serious financial difficulty, may
desert the morning field, where
it has been waging a losing
struggle for circulation and ad-
vertising against the prestigious
“New York Times” and the
popular tabloid - sized “New
York Daily News”, and be-
come an afternoon paper,
competing with the newly
merged “NY World Telegram-
Sun - Journal - American”, or
whatever it will be called.)
The dispute which halted the presses
of the “New York Times” and six other
local newspapers on September 16 did
not involve wages, but primarily the
bedevilling issue of automation as well
as pensions, severance pay and the so-
called “closed” or fully-unionised shop.
The City Hall-imposed settlement
granted the unions additional fringe
benefits in the matter of pensions and
severance, but left ticking away like a
time-bomb the basic disagreement over
automation, pending expiration of the
new contract in 18 months. At that time
another disruptive power struggle be-
tween the two sides will surely occur
unless a miracle of enlightenment comes
to both management and labor.
The publishers, faced with increasing
costs and growing competition from
television for the advertising dollar, ap-
pear determined to automate or die. The
unions, faced with the prospect of
wholesale loss of jobs, appear determin-
ed to see newspapers die rather than
submit to automation. Perhaps the
A. J. GOLDBERG
needed miracle will take the form of
the “Goldberg solution”, which entails
promulgation of a “protocol of peace”
between newspaper unions and manage-
ments. Arthur J. Goldberg, that master
Labor mediator, who is now US Ambas-
sador to the United Nations, outlined
his formula for an end to strife in the
newspaper industry in an interview with
A. H. Raskin, the country’s foremost
Labor reporter, which appeared in the
“Reporter” magazine at the end of the
strike.
Goldberg sees the constitutional guar-
antee of freedom of the Press as im-
posing upon newspapers the responsibility
of uninterrupted publication, in the in-
terest of continuing public enlighten-
ment. In his view, the Press
is as much a public utility as
the railways or electric gener-
ating companies. He would
therefore ask publishers and
unions to ratify a “protocol of
peace” in recognition of this
special responsibility.
As Secretary of Labor in
the Kennedy Administration,
Goldberg succeeded in halting
a series of “quickie” strikes at
missile sites, including Cape
Canaveral, by inducing building con-
tractors and construction workers to sign
such a protocol, in the public interest.
Both sides agreed on a programme of
referring disputes to a special machinery
of conciliation, with final power of
decision in the hands of a national panel
of impartial experts. This machinery
eliminated major work stoppages at the
missile sites. Obviously the Goldberg
solution implies that publishers recognise
they are not just the usual kind of em-
ployers, but ones holding a special trust.
Further, it implies that they must sur-
render some of their sovereignty —*
primarily the right to suspend or cease
publication altogether —to an outside
agency. For their part, unions would
then have to forgo their right to strike.
Disappearance of the “New York
Times” from the news-stands of the city
and from the desks of Government
leaders in Washington and men of affairs
in every other city—emphasised anew
the unique role this incomparable publi-
cation plays in the national life. (Actually
the newspaper blackout was not total


which man
ploughs
most
fields
%
mm
i V i
i 1
mm .
||
■
FARMER
BANKER
The farmer . . . but then he will probably be the first to
admit that a banker helped make it possible. Australia’s
competing banks, and the man-on-the-land, have been part-
ners in Australia’s agricultural growth right from the tough,
primitive, pioneering days until today when our farming
methods are equal to the world’s best. Where you see pro-
gress—chances are it’s backed by a bank.
Every Australian benefits from competition between banks.
FREE ENTERPRISE BANKS
THE NATIONAL • THE C.B.C. • THE ES. & A.
THE ADELAIDE • THE A.N.Z. • THE WALES • THE C.B.A.
RIIOB
this time in New York. The “New York
Post”, a Leftish afternoon tabloid with
limited circulation capacity, published
throughout the strike and the “New York
Herald-Tribune” broke away from the
Publishers’ Association to resume publi-
cation after ten days of locking out its
employees.)
Retail business as a whole declined
about ten per cent in the city during
the stoppage. It is hard to estimate how
much of this loss can be attributed to
the absence of the “Times”, which
carries more classified linage than all
other papers combined and the bulk of
the upper-class display advertising. No
doubt it was a considerable amount.
However, the “Times’ ” blackout was felt
more in intangible matters, in the absence
of its foreign reports, its Washington
despatches, its coverage of the theatre
and the arts and in the comments in its
leader pages.
In its first issue upon resuming publi-
cation the “Times” carried a special slip-
out section of four pages summarising
the news that had occurred while it had
been silent. Its constant readers, although
they had followed the daily news develop-
ments through expanded television and
radio broadcasts and in the “Post” or
“Herald - Tribune”, nevertheless eagerly
devoured this “Times” summary, as if
in the belief that news wasn’t really news
unless it appeared in the long, grey
columns of the “Times”.
The “Times” prides itself upon being
“the newspaper of record”. It dis-
tributed copies of its international edition,
published throughout the strike in Paris,
to libraries, universities and Government
agencies in the United States each day
of its blackout. About 600 of its 5000
employees continued to work, many
going through the picket lines on the
footpath of its main building on 43rd
Street to continue the “Times” syndicate
service which goes to 153 newspapers
in this country and abroad.
The historic visit to the United States
by Pope Paul on October 4 caused mass
frustration in the breasts of its dedicated
staff. Fifty-one editors, reporters and
photographers —some of them on strike,
some not —banded together in a remark-
able enterprise to preserve in print a
record of the Papal visit. Working as
temporary employees of Bantam Book
Company, an outside publisher, they put
together in record time a book containing
the news stories, features, columns, news
analyses, texts and photographs that
would have appeared in the “Times”
had it been publishing. On October 9
the Rome correspondent, Robert Doty,
proudly presented to His Holiness in
the Vatican palace a beautifully bound
special copy of the book. The Pope
received it with delight, and, no doubt,
incredulity.


ini
IN MELBOURNE
smart people stay at the
RESS ORIENTAL HOTEL
at the Paris end of Collins Street.
Right in the heart of busi-
ness, entertainment, theatres
and shopping centre.
100 rooms—newly decor-
ated, 24 hour room service.
New air-conditioned res-
taurants, the Rib Room, for
delicious aged beef and steaks;
the Harlequin Room for the
young at heart.
Hotel shops include chem-
ist, florist, boutique—and a
step away is the high fashion
world of Collins Street.
Car parking at the hotel.
Ask about our Family
Booking Plan (children free).
For reservations, ring Mel-
bourne 636031; Sydney
298392, your Airline or
Travel Agent. RHI43/64
HESS ORIENTAL
MELBOURNE
Letters to the Editor
The Black and
White Footballers
SIR. Black and white are Mr Shadbolt's
only shades in "It Feels Good to be a New
Zealander" (8., Oct. 2). The real picture is
far more interesting, even if less satisfying
from his partisan standpoint. The New
Zealand Rugby Union was successful in
1959-60 in ignoring Mr Shadbolt and his well
publicised fellows and their opposition. Why?
Because it had the backing of the country,
Maori and white. The South African Rugby
Board will not be successful in its gallant
attempt to circumvent the monomania of its
country's political leaders, precisely because
it is trying to do what Mr Shadbolt wanted
both political parties, one of which was the
Government, to do in New Zealand at that
time, namely inject politics into sport.
Mr Shadbolt's emotions will not allow him
.to admit this, nor to applaud the South
African Rugby authorities. Very well. His
emotions are his own, and laudable. But if
he is to record the facts he must be impartial.
He might also record that Maori authorities,
and their Rugby administrators, are not
pleased, to say the least, at what they regard
as enthusiastic, well meaning, but funda-
mentally offensive, intrusion into their affairs.
' Maoris, to blur Mr Shadbolt's fond image
even further, were embarrassingly eager to
make friends with the 1965 Springboks,
showered them with favors, and even cheered
, for them at various games.
I Maori Rugby authorities are concerned lest
i the end of All Black tours of South Africa
means that the New Zealand Union will, in
logic, have to refuse the Fijian (and other
Rugby Unions) that ask regularly for tours by
all-Maori teams, which specifically exclude
white players.
i Mr Shadbolt could well have mused wryly
on the readiness of churches which have
helped exploit the Maori for a century to
berate New Zealand's biggest sporting body,
and the only sporting body that has ever
done anything for Maoris. Where, in fact,
Maoris are privileged people with oppor-
tunities that white players never have.
Or he might, before repeating it, have
examined the nonsense about the Rugby
Union's wealth. No poker machines assist
here and the money the Union receives,
which is substantial whenever a touring team
comes to New Zealand, has gone back. Back
in the shape of new grandstands for the
[ people who paid the money in the first place.
[Because of this trustee attitude the Union is
perpetually short of money. Nor did the Union
ever want, cs Mr Shadbolt insinuates, to
i continue the Springbok-All Black series, if
lit meant that Maoris could not tour South
I Africa as members of All Black teams.
P. B. DALY
Lower Hutt (NZ).
"Four Brigadiers and
the CMF"
SIR. I feel compelled to comment on your
article "Four Brigadiers and the CMF" (B„
Oct. 2). As an officer in the Australian
Regular Army I am not, by moral or military
standards, in a position to openly criticise
my senior officers whether they be ARA or
CMF, Active or Retired. However, I believe
that I have a right and a responsibility as
a citizen to point out several anomalies which
appear in the article.
The Brigadiers infer that the expansion of
the ARA has reduced the CMF to impotency.
This is not correct. The current reorganisa-
tion of the Army has created a larger number
of CMF units with the consequent oppor-
tunities for advancement and acceptance of
responsibility within the CMF. With the intro-
duction of National Service both the ARA
and the CMF will expand and the challenge
to meet this expansion lies fairly with both
organisations. It is a recognised fact that
National Service was instituted for the benefit
of Australia, nof the ARA.
The statement that "operations in Malaya,
Borneo and Vietnam have been little more
than strenuous training exercises" is a pro-
fession of ignorance. Perhaps the authors
have based their comment on published
casualty figures from these areas or, per-
haps they are not fully aware of the scope
of the operations being undertaken by our
troops in South-East Asia. I suggest that
casualty figures reflect only one thing,
namely, the higher standard of training
achieved in our Army over the past twenty
years.
The allegations that the ARA has provided
only "minimum assistance" to CMF camps
and has "further weakened the CMF by
raids on its officers and NCOs" are surely
based on a lack of knowledge of the true
situation. The high standard of training
achieved in the CMF over recent years has
been made possible only by the unselfish
and untiring efforts of a large number of
ARA officers and NCOs. The "raids" can
only reflect on a handful of CMF officers
and soldiers who have seen their way clear
to dedicate their lives to full time soldiering.
(Name withheld from publication.)
Sydney (NSW).
Factual "Overstatements "
SIR. I had always imagined Leonie
Kramer's department to be English Literature.
I had no idea she was a musical expert. It
appears that I was mistaken. How else is one
to account for the fact that in her brief
31-line review (B„ Oct. 9) of the "London
Magazine"—an issue that fairly bulges with
literary riches she devotes 16 lines to a
cursory lumping together of new works by
Hal Porter, Charles Higham, Judith Wright
and other important writers, ignores Charles
Osborne on Patrick White and uses the re-
maining 15 lines to tell me just what attitude
I should ... or should not . . . have taken
in depicting the Australian musical scene and
Richard Meale?
Both here and abroad I shall continue to
state that in my opinion Richard Meale is a
composer of international significance. In a
lifetime of musical criticism my "overstate-
ments" and predictions have had a habit of
becoming fact, beginning with the first per-
formance of "Wozzeck" by Alban Berg in
1925.
CURT PRERAUER
(tit. Director of Studies, State Opera
Berlin, and Music Critic for Australian
and Overseas publications.)
Castle Cove (NSW).
Who is Ray Taylor?
SIR. If your correspondent J. C. Kaye, who
I gather "writes most of his own material",
had had "the aid of a young researcher"
in his labors on the article "Who is Ray
Taylor?", he would have discovered that
I am not a "young researcher", nor have
been since December '64. Of the 59 Taylor
shows so far telecast, I have been associated
with 58: 15 with the credit "research", four
with the credit "research and additional
material", and for the last 39 with the credit
"written by". The research I have done in
that period has been confined to that neces-
sary to ensure those "new element",
cultural bit" pieces I wrote on "Schweitzer,
Le Corbusier, Kafka or Dante", were
adequate.
PAUL LAWSON
Melbourne (Vic.).
Registering the Schools
SIR. I am attempting to compile a
"register" of the independent secondary
schools which have existed in Victoria over
the past hundred years, and have made such
a notable contribution to educational develop-
ment in this State. The majority of these
schools, which once numbered between two
and three hundred, are now closed and their
buildings demolished. School records in most
cases have been destroyed. However, there
could be former pupils of schools such as
South Melbourne College, Toorak Grammar
School, Shirley College, Brighton, Oberwyl,
St Kilda, Colac Grammar School, Sandhurst
Grammar School, and many others, who
possess school magazines, photographs or
records. I would greatly appreciate hearing
from any such persons, and I will acknow-
ledge any replies and return any material
forwarded to me.
CHARLES SLIGO
32 Martin Street, Elwood, S 3
Elwood (Vic.).


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Coming Up Like Thunder?
Gunga Din at the Showground
the worlds of Marco Polo,
iH Rudyard Kipling, the Samurai
and Gunga Din,” says the pub-
licity for the Pageant of Asia Spectacular,
to be staged at the Sydney Showground
during the Trade Fair from October 22
to 30. However, the worlds of this un-
likely foursome have changed of late and
dawns have been coming up like thunder
rather more often than they used to.
Since the organising of the Festival began
a few months ago, and leaving aside long-
term conflicts, Singapore has been ejected
from Malaysia, India and Pakistan have
clashed over Kashmir and Indonesia has
been in upheaval.
In spite of this, the organisers of the
Festival have carried on bravely and
hopefully, measuring one of Bullen’s
Circus elephants for a ceremonial robe
of gold-filigreed brocade, being made for
her in India, and hammering together
the replica of the Thai Royal Barge,
which will be wheeled around the Show-
ground.
In fact, there has been only one cancel-
lation. That was New Guinea, on the
order of the Administration, because of
the cost of assembling and outfitting the
50 dancers and also because of some
doubts about how they would be looked
after in Sydney. (The cancellation came,
however, after an ill-advised advertise-
ment about “head-hunters”.) Vietnam,
tactfully, was never approached. The
organisers “didn’t get very far” with
Indonesia. Burma didn’t answer the pre-
liminary letter. Malaysia now is rep-
resented but not Singapore.
But India and Pakistan will still be
represented, although probably well
separated on the programme. India’s
presentation will be the Bullen’s elephant,
flanked by Indians living locally and
dressed in costumes from the 15 provin-
ces and military uniforms dating back to
the Asoka period, before the birth of
Christ. The costumes are being sent from
India. The Pakistanis will be represented
by Australian tent-peggers, mounted on
Australian polo ponies, to get over the
quarantine regulations. (The Pakistani
tent-peggers were, at the last minute, un-
able to come.)
One of the immediate problems the
organisers have met is that it is near exam
time at universities and technical col-
leges. This has dried up the ready supply
"Try F.ll at ' / 125 of a second."
of Indians and of the 60 Thais to man
the Royal Golden Barge.
In one of the most remarkable switches
in show business history the New Zea-
landers will perform their poi dance and
haka at the Festival and then begin their
tour in Gershwin's opera, “Porgy and
Bess.”
The Festival, which will cost £lOO,OOO
to stage, is being produced by the
executive director of the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust, Mr Stefan Haag, which
again is a fairly remarkable demonstra-
tion of versatility, or, at least, which
shows one way to use your top people
when you run out of opera money.
For the pageant the Showground will
have a map of Asia and the Pacific
covering the arena. Countries will per-
form on the area they represent, which
is all right for the Australian Aborigines
but a little hard on the 130-feet-long
dragon from Hong Kong. At the back
of the arena are five giant plastic screens
which will display scenes from the ap-
propriate country as a backdrop to each
performance. Alternately, the screens
will be used to silhouette individual mem-
bers of the cast, providing, for example,
30-feet high Tahitian dancers.
One of Mr Haag’s most difficult prob-
lems is timing. The show will last 13
hours and individual performances may
have to be as brief as six minutes or so,
hardly enough to warm up the Kandyan
dancers, whose ceremonial performances
can last three days.
At last count the 13 countries still
taking part in the Festival were:
• Ceylon. The Kandyan dancers
with their dance of the Flaming Torches.
• Republic of China. An act from
the classical Chinese opera.
• Hawaii. Hula dancers.
• Hong Kong. The Lion Dragon,
historic emblem of the Emperors of
China.
• India. Parade of exotic costumes
flanking the well-dressed elephant.
• Japan. Slack-wire artiste.
• Malaysia. Shadow-puppetry, kite-
flying, disc-throwing and self-defence.
• New Zealand. Poi dance and Haka.
• The Philippines. The Tinikling,
the bamboo dances of the Visayan
Islands.
• Tahiti. Island dancers.
• Thailand. A replica of the Royal
Golden Barge.
• Australia. Members of the Rem-
barrnga, Ngalkbun and Gunwinggu tribes
from Beswick, near Katherine, and their
Ring of Fire corroboree.
aw
Color pictures on page 3 of portfolio.


%■ »
\
a\f
/oBm
'
K
«*«*(**
N
/
I
1
.-*
■
A
IS
■
-
■* ’■»
<
Wa
rm
K
§ |S
IK
r^*Mf
gig
Si':
i«S
titio mm sw*
... ?•«o cv ce or rp ane*
ims? corners i mi t turn <*»**
.. .
’ —r*
Hennessy is the Greatest Name in Cognac Because...!
for two centuries the Hennessy family through seven
generations have built up the largest and finest reserves of
Cognac in the world. That's why the standard of
excellence never changes. The high quality is guaranteed.
HENNESSY
BRAS ARME
COGNAC
In this Distinctive Bottle.
N.S.W. Agents: Gollin & Co. Ltd., Harbottle, Brown & Co. Pty. Ltd. All other States: Gollin & Co. Ltd.


n
wmmttm
11
R\i
13
1 *
* -■
What to wear where the sun shines
and ties are unknown!!!
Let yourself go this summer. We
did. Never before have we entered
the sportshirt field so boldly. This
is no place for the timid. It’s a brave
new world of colour and styling in
sportshirts for boating to loafing.
For instance? A range of Shirt Jacs
sporting a smashing new look.
Some with mohair panelled fronts
and backs; others in terry towelling
with a dash of stripes with jet
pockets and continental collars.
What else is new? A dauntless
trimmed style, in both long and
short sleeves and a provocative
motif to brighten the chest pocket.
Still another new look: Round peak
button-downs with long and short
sleeves in crisp new checks, plains
HOLEPROOF
Sports Shirts
and stripes. Shot silks, Marie
stripes, Slub linens and Block
stripes are all in the swim of things
this summer.
The price? From 39/11 to a top of
89/11! Sun lovers of the world unite.
FOR THE MAN
WITH THE CLEAN CUT LOOK


Festival of Asia
Members of the 16-strong troupe of Kandyan dancers from Ceylon who
will take part in the Festival of Asia at the Sydney Showground from
October 22-30. The dancers recently took part in the Commonwealth
Festival in London.
Left: An Aborigine from Beswick
in the Northern Territory who
will take part in the ring of
fire corroboree at the Festival.
A member of the Kelantan Royal
Court dancers and musicians,
Malaysia, plays the kertok kel-
apa, or coconut xylophone.


V.
s m >
-m.
--
4s
S. '
V
s««
:
Lt
4
*<,:v
t
s.
kV
One look will carry you away.
One look at the FAIRMONT and you start
searching for superlatives to do it justice.
For instance, the front seats simply
demand to be described as magnificent,
luxurious, sumptuous!
Then take the FAIRMONT’S upholstery.
Just the world’s softest and most supple
vinyl, that’s all. And the carpeting? The
most expensive that Ford could find.
And the silence of the ride? Almost
uncanny that’s the only phrase to use.
Suddenly you realise this car has every
luxury, as standard equipment: power
disc brakes, heater/demister, individual
floor lights, wide beam reversing lights,
fully padded dashboard and sun visors,
windshield washers, and low profile tyres.
And to top it all, you get the Super
Pursuit 200 engine, teamed with Fordo-
matic 3-speed automatic transmission,
for truly brilliant performance.
Call your Ford Dealer now, and ask
for a test-drive. He’ll have a FAIRMONI
ready at a time to suit you.
FAIRMONT Sedan, £1525;
Station Wagon, £1625.
Prices include tax.
#
BY FORD
FORD OF AUSTRALIA


The Legend of
Marlene Dietrich
A midnight supper with the last of the great diseuses
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Twelve-fifteen p.m., October 5:
the white stone, coldly impersonal
entrance of Melbourne’s Southern
Cross Hotel. A massive, low-slung
Pontiac drives up to the glass doors; a
pale hand at the window, a look of
slightly bewildered surprise, and a
woman gets out. Clearly, it's been a dif-
ficult journey from New York, she’s
tired out, the face itself is dead-white,
not powdered. An opalescent, check
wool costume, the kind of thing a
European aristocrat would wear to
Longchamps, has a surprisingly sensible
air. Low-heeled, size 2\ shoes, pale grey
stockings, a band in her Garboesque,
page-boy hair, and in her hands a spray
of white orchids, held almost defensively
against the body. She walks into the
lobby, ' nervously tentative, frowning
against the white light which almost
makes her delicately beautiful face dis-
solve against the white pillars, white
stone floors. Her almost splay-footed,
uneasy walk is that of a girl on her first
date . . .
She vanishes into a lift; not long after
she re-emerges to go straight into a re-
hearsal with the band. And from the
theatre, now changed into a dark blue
blouse and a white satin Chanel costume,
to a dining-room at her hotel oddly rig-
ged up as a theatre, with a dais, a seat for
her, and a microphone waiting. Again,
she sidles into the room,,smiling coolly.
She sees the stage and the chairs arranged
in threatening half-moons, the reporters
packed tight by the cocktail-bar. “But
it’s so formal ,” she whispers. “I might
be giving a concert.” The photographers
must finish first; she won’t be interviewed
with lights flashing in her face. As the
shots go on and on, she grows impatient.
A finger beckons the impresario, Kenn
Brodziak. “Am I going to get tough
with them, or are you?” Understandably,
he hesitates, but now the shots finish;
she can settle down to talk. .
A few words, half in German, half in
English, with an excitable Jewish re-
porter who once saw her perform in
Vienna. And, during the discussion,
some memorably bizarre exchanges:
“Miss Dietrich, Tasmania is an island
off the coast of Australia.” “Yes, I
know. But I always used to think Ernst
Lubitsch invented it.” (The reference
was to a film one thought everyone had
forgotten, “The Princess of Tasmania”.)
And: “Were you disturbed when they
asked you to get into a monkey suit?”
(The reference was to hdr ape dance in
“Blonde Venus”.) “I was asked to do
all kinds of crazy things in those days.”
And she is very quick to slap down the
impertinent: “Do you wear a hairpiece?”
some man asks. “Do you?” she replies,
dissolving a nervously half-hostile room
in laughter.
The impression, watching Marlene
Dietrich in action, is one of—incredibly,
in view of her screen image—absolute
North German rectitude, cool intellect,
precision and tact, an iron discipline
that brooks no distractions, balanced
against an extremely sensitive, self-
enquiring and restlessly dissatisfied per-
sonality.
She has no patience with fools, and
the slightest fault in herself or others is
immediately seized on. Not a gesture is
wasted, the back pencil-straight, the eyes
fixing each questioner until the precise
moment he or she is finished, the brain
refusing to be interrupted or distracted
by others. If she weren’t so much the
Northern woman, one would call her
control Oriental. One sees immediately
the effect of the early, spartan training
in an upper-class military German
family, the refusal to flinch before ex-
perience, much of which, in the crude
’sixties, she must find unbearably pain-
ful. But she does let herself, surprisingly,
go on the horrors of world air travel: she
is coldly, fiercely denunciatory, with some
memorable images of discomfort thrown
in: “You stop in the Fiji Islands. And
they come and brush, and brush, and
great elephant feet go by. Then they
spray that terrible insect-killer in your
face . .
In the middle of this extraordinary
image of a giant Fijian officer spraying
Marlene Dietrich with insecticide, there
is a curious little scene, staged expertly
for the columnists. A foreign waiter
steps up to Marlene’s chair, carrying a
tray with a flourish. On it sits a huge,
glistening ice-cream in the shape of an
apple. The schmaltzy little speech has
been flawlessly rehearsed. “The apple
was the first fruit that the first lady
tempted the first gentleman with. We
have it here tonight. And we have given
it the name, ‘Madame Marlene’.”
The star puts Madame Marlene firmly
on the floor and changes the subject. No,
she had no interest in seeing countries;
she would leave Australia the moment
the tour was over. (“I’m not a tourist”.)
For her, clearly, the dedication to the
job, to herself, is absolute, the will
screwed up again and again to the task
despite the pressures of world flights,
rushed schedules, the increasingly re-
duced periods of preparation, of re-
hearsal, as union charges rose. Meeting
her, one has a uniquely sharp sense of
the agony, the rigor of the star’s life,
the need to maintain a standard of living


almost everyone else has been forced
to abandon since the ’thirties: a world
of Balenciaga and Chanel and Yves St
Laurent, boulevard apartments and New
York hideaways. And above all, in
Dietrich’s case, there is the problem, for
an intellectual, of enduring the fatuous
routines of stardom . . .
Somewhere along the line, amid all
the questions about babies and grand-
motherhood and her age, she talks with
enthusiasm about her films. “Witness
for the Prosecution” (a film I had never
cared for) is one of her favorites;
Charles Laughton taught her to speak
Cockney for it, and she has the same
sense of humor as the director, Billy
Wilder. She says she has learned her
famous knowledge of lighting, of pre-
sentation, from von Sternberg, her dis-
coverer; unlike the other directors she
has worked with most notably Hitch-
cock, Wilder, Lubitsch he had not
planned his films in advance but had
improvised as they went along.
She seldom goes to the cinema nowa-
days. “I feel that the quality—the tech-
nical quality—has declined, don’t you?”
One wasn’t surprised to hear that she
liked Antonioni, though: the severity,
the pure line of his films evidently
appealed to her very disciplined (and
half - melancholy, half - humorous) sensi-
bility. And she had very much enjoyed
working with Hitchcock: “I always enjoy
working with people who know what
they want. He knew what he wanted.”
The firm way she said that had the
authentic note of the disciplined star,
the performer who will brook no con-
fusion on the set.
In recent years, she has, she says,
greatly enjoyed playing in the British
provinces and her eyes light up at, of all
things, mention of Manchester and
Liverpool, where Bessie Braddock had
driven her through the rain to see the
Mersey. She doesn’t like television: “It
takes so long. An American spectacular,
for instance. It takes four weeks to
rehearse. And then it may be lousy.
And you don’t keep the money. So why
do it?” But she very much likes radio
as a medium, and had recently appeared
in Britain in two radio plays by Shirley
Jenkins, whom she thought one of the
best new playwrights in England.
"Recordings of records in the studio, she
feels, don’t have enough preparation,
because of the big payments unions
demand for musicians. And she doesn’t
like star biographies, most notably Leslie
Frewin’s one of her, published ten years
ago. “It was not authorised. I would
have sued him, but he had no money.”
She is smiling, but her voice has a hint
of steel: how superb she would be in a
version of John Buchan’s “Greenmantle”
as Hilda von Einem, the German aristo-
crat whose voice was like a leather sheath
containing a razor-sharp blade!
It’s getting towards the end of the
conference, she’s really tired now, and
her eyes grow restless. Then someone
asks her a question, and the answer
crystallises her whole personality, the
whole tone of one’s encounter with her.
She has been saying that she carries on
only in order to do her duty. “What is
your duty?” She pauses for a moment,
thinking, then smiles with an expression
of sharp intelligence, drawing herself
up proudly. “To answer that I must go
back to Goethe, with whom I was
educated.” She remembers a phrase from
the 1816 “Maxims and Reflections”:
AS CATHERINE IN "SCARLET EMPRESS".
Was aber ist deine Pflicht? Die Forder-
ung des Tages. “What is your duty?
Whatever the day demands.”
★ ★ ★
It is opening night now, the Princess
Theatre, the evening of October 7. A
dazzle of diamonds and furs in the stalls,
and white shirt-fronts as the orchestra,
sounding oddly “dead” as though it is
a rehearsal and the sound system is
turned off, strikes up a medley. Un-
fortunately, Burt Bacharach, Marlene’s
usual conductor, is absent and the band
misses his panache (the lighting, though,
copied from Joe Davis’ in London, works
well). At first, the star emerges from
behind the curtain hesitantly, still, after
two days, uncertain of the country and
the audience, perhaps trying to gauge
its temper. At the moment it is looking
very rich, stolid and bored. She has a
remote, lunar quality on stage: drifting
bubbles of white fur, a silver gown, her
hair apparently in the light a darker
color than I had remembered it earlier.
She belts straight into “I Can’t Give You
Anything But Love, Baby”, and appears
genuinely shocked into relieved laughter
at the applause. She appears to deliver
most of her numbers with far more skill
and point than on her recent recordings:
or is it just that one needs her real
presence to give impact to a song? The
arms are held tightly against the body
or behind the back, the fingers used
sexually or accusingly or mockingly as
she points at the audience or caresses
the microphone. The body itself is
always stock-still except when she bows,
furs tumbling forward, hair in a shock
over her face, to acknowledge the cheers.
/"|nce again, one is struck with the iron
control of every movement. Tears,
laughter, mocking smiles are turned on
and off at will, and the real agony of
emotion seldom breaks through: when it
does, as in the superb hunger-song from
Israel, “Shir Hatan”, the effect is all the
more powerful because of the cool self-
discipline of the rest. Time has put an
extra edge of refinement on her voice,
and her range, switching from the brazen,
harsh insolence of Frederick Hollander’s
“Lola” to the delicate romanticism of
Tauber’s favorite “Warum Lachelst Du
Mona Lisa” without a hint of strain, is
as astonishing as ever. One’s eyes dazzle
with tears in the harsh lights; the
audience is on its feet, cheering and
cheering; it is no less than she, the last
of the great diseuses, natural heir to
Hortense Schneider and Fritzi Massary,
deserves, and she knows it, darting in and
out of the curtain like a silver fish,
dodging a rain of flowers.
★ ★ ★
Backstage, after the show, she has
asked a handful of people—John Casson,
Sybil Thorndike's son and his wife, the
“Variety” reporter, and myself— to drop
round for a chat. She clings to my arm
eagerly, like a young girl. “They, the
audience, were so quickl ” She is
delighted with them. “In England I have
to say each joke slowly, so they get the
point. But here, when I referred to the
way I sang an American song for my
test in ‘The Blue Angel’ and that it wasn’t
the song that got me the part, they
laughed at once! And usually only
Americans are as quick as that . . .
“You know the studio test in which
I sang that song is still in existence, in
East Germany. The Russians took all
the UFA studio material and they have
it there . . . Wouldn’t it be fun to see
it again . . .” She sings, with wit and
charming self-mockery, a few phrases
of the number in the squeaky voice of
1929: “You’re the cream in my coffee
Then she looks more serious. “What
did you” this with a more earnest
clinging to my arm “think of that
Press conference? You know something
happened there which has never hap-
pened to me in my life. A girl said to
me, ‘When are you going to retire?’ And
I asked that back to her. And she said,
‘But I’m only 22 and I have such a long


time ahead of me . . .’ You know, it’s
on occasions like this that I wish I were
a bitch. I would have said to her, ‘Get
down on your knees, my dear, and pray
that you don’t die before you get any
older’.” She laughs, forgivingly: the
disciplined conference victim and the
brilliantly stylish professional of the stage
have turned into a charming, intimate
woman, and one feels that, at this late
hour of the night, all the masks are off
★ ★ ★
Next afternoon I am in my hotel
room when the telephone rings. The
voice on the other end is unmistakeable.
“Hello, this is Marlene. I would have
called you earlier only people have never
stopped calling me. They all seem to
have deadlines at 11 o’clock tomorrow
morning. I don’t understand it at all.
But let us meet privately. Why don’t
you come and have supper with me,
after the show.”
★ ★ ★
I arrive at the theatre at 10.30; half
an hour later the performance is over
and I am backstage. Cavernous darkness;
looming, threatening props and struts;
tiny knots of agonised people arguing
about the best way to get the star out of
the theatre through the crowd, how many
are going to be in the car, and who will
be invited to supper. A dresser rushes
to and fro, her face taut and strained.
Theatre staff argue perfunctorily. Every
few minutes someone comes from the
stage door: “The crowd is getting rest-
less. Is she ready?”
Now she emerges, in a soft, woollen,
blue-grey costume. The tension in-
creases. We are in the corridor leading
to the stage door. Suddenly the door
flies open: the crowd is wild with excite-
ment, clusters of hands rush out at us.
She shrinks back, anxiously, as pens are
thrust into her hand for autographs.
“This one doesn’t work,” she says, hand-
ing a pen back. “Where are my pictures?
My pictures?” she says; the dresser has
forgotten to give her the autographed
portraits she will hand to the crowd.
Someone races off and returns with fist-
-1 fuls of them.
Now, somehow, we have to make it to
the car. Ahead of us a tiny human corri-
dor is formed in the screaming, strug-
gling people by the police. A theatre man
calls out to a policeman: “You aren’t
keeping them back enough!” And then,
to the crowd: “Be careful, please! You’ll
injure her!” I find myself stepping on
hands, forced to push elbows into
matronly midriffs; the crowd is now
completely upon us, and it seems we are
going to be crushed. But somehow we.
fight our way through, scattering pic-
tures. Dietrich slips into the car as,
behind us, Kenn Brodziak keeps calling:
“Stay close to her! Stay very close to her!”
The theatre man ahead of me catches
his leg in the car door, but still the crowd
will not relent. I am in, but the door
won’t shut. I pull it to. Hands clutch
through the window: “Close it half way
up, not completely,” someone says, and
I obey. But the hands are still clawing,
only retreating when I thrust bundles of
pictures into them. The cries are fierce:
“Make her sign this! I came all the way
from Queenscliff and I won’t go until she
signs it!” “Leave your name and address
at the theatre!” someone snaps at the
angry, male, foreign voice. Women
scream: “Ask her to look this way!” “Oh!
She looked at me!” “Let me get a look
at her!” It is horrifying, appalling; hands
drum relentlessly on the car roof; are
we going to be tilted over?
A s we move, Dietrich keeps calling out:
“Watch out for the children! That
little boy there! He may go under the
wheels! Oh, please be careful!” At last
we are away, and around a sharp corner.
We drive first to the Southern Cross
Hotel to deliver the suitcases. It’s in-
credible, but several of the crowd at the
theatre by no means all of them young
have managed to sprint hundreds of
yards from Spring Street to the hotel
ahead of the car. Dietrich isn’t sur-
prised. “It’s the. same in England. And
in Liverpool they have the most won-
derful trick. They knock the policeman’s
helmets forward. The policemen are
blinded, naturally, and let go. So the
crowd can get through. Aren't they
clever?”
Now we are really off, down dark,
deserted, rain-swept streets: it’s like the
car journey in Cocteau’s “Orpheus”, the
driver in his cap motionless and silent,
the two men with us from the theatre also
stock still, and the star beside me, staring
out into the black night. We drive up to
a restaurant with a glass front deep in
the suave backwaters of Toorak. Inside,
a pianist is tinkling away, a few couples
at the fag end of the evening are polish-
ing off liqueurs, and we slip into a
corner table. Marlene orders escalope,
a plain pancake with lemon. She has
brought wine with her; the waiter puts
champagne in a bucket on the table.
“No, we won’t have that. Take it
away.” Now he offers her her own red
wine to taste. She gently ignores the
faux pas, asks him to pour.
Over dinner, after some strained dis-
cussion of problems in the theatre, the
star turns to a reminiscence of the war
years. She talks about the vast influx
of Europeans, refugees from Hitler and
frequently men of great talent Mann,
Brecht, Frank, Werfel (whom she knew
well) who fled via Paris to Holly-
wood before and during World War 11.
“Ernst Lubitsch, Billy Wilder and I
were the ones who organised help for the
refugees.
“But the German Jews loved Germany
so terribly, in spite of everything that
was happening there. Even in Paris,
they would say, This bread is so bad.
It isn’t like German bread’.” And these,
she indicated, were people who had just
escaped from the gas chambers . . .
“Even in Hollywood they would com-
plain about everything. But I think it is
a terribly difficult thing, living in an-
other country. Billy, Lubitsch and I got
these people little jobs around the studios,
just so they would be working . . . But
they still longed to go back to Germany,
they loved it so, and some did go back
. . . to what?”
She herself had gone to Hollywood
before Hitler. “Erich Pommer, who was
head of UFA studios, could have kept
me on after I made The Blue Angel’
for almost nothing. But he had never
wanted me for the part and when he
AS AMY JOLLY, CAFE SINGER, IN "MOROCCO"


previewed the picture he still didn’t
think I had a future. So he let me go.”
I mention some of the directors she
has worked with: Fritz Lang, Rene Clair,
Welles. She hangs her head with a wry
smile at mention of Lang’s name and
says she hadn’t liked the picture she
made with him, “Rancho Notorious”.
She agrees that Rene Clair’s “Flame of
New Orleans” was a charming comedy,
but says that he had been unpopular with
the technicians in Hollywood. He would
not unbend, and the picture had been a
complete flop at the box-office . . .
Welles she adored. “I do hope his next
picture is a success, oh, I hope so . . .
His is such a tragic career.” Her voice
is full of concern, of tenderness . . .
Now she looks up at the waiters; they
are tired, waiting for us to go. It is half
past one in the morning, but she still
has energy left. She looks at the waiters
with pity . . . “We must let them leave,
go home.” We drive off, couples in
evening dress still wandering about every-
where, thrown up from the darkness by
the headlamps. “So late at night!” she
says. “This is some jumping town!” We
are at the hotel now. She squeezes my
hand, trots briefly through the rain, and
is gone.
★ ★ ★
11.15 a.m., October 9: Dietrich on
the telephone again: she has been reading
the novel, “Be Ready with Bells
and Drums”, by the Scottish-
Australian Elizabeth Kata, which the
author had sent to her suite, and wants
to convey to me her passion for it. And
she has been reading Paustovsky’s “Story
of My Life”: she said he had come to
see her on the stage during a performance
in Russia and she hadn’t known what to
say to him, as neither spoke the other’s
language. “So I just went down on my
knees.” She raved about Paustovsky,
and regretted the passing of other writers
she had known, most notably her close
friend, Ernest Hemingway, and the
stroke which had laid Erich Maria
Remarque low. “I am starved of intel-
lectual companionship . . .” She wants
to see Australian poetry, and I send her
books of McAuley, Judith Wright, and
Randolph Stow’s recent annual collection
for Angus and Robertson. She receives
them with pleasure and we say a tempor-
ary good-bye: she will catch up with
me in Sydney ... A sign of naivete
and incurable film-fanism no doubt, but
it still seems extraordinary to talk to a
legend on the telephone . . .
A t first that legend was made up of lazy
Hollander songs, sung through clouds
of cigarette smoke in overcrowded dives,
of earthy, self-mocking humor, straddled
legs and frilly garters and feathers and
the ability to enslave professors, legion-
naires or medical officers; later, it
changed into the image of the gilded
demi-mondaine, the elegant jewel-thief or
diplomat’s erring grass widow involved in
European high-life; then came the splen-
did saloon molls of “Destry Rides Again”
and “Seven Sinners” and “The Spoilers”;
the game and courageous wartime enter-
tainer, singing in fox-holes, embracing
grubby Gls; and finally the new, still
immensely potent post-war reincarnation
as a lazy, bored, amused cabaret enter-
tainer in sequins or rhinestones, leaning
against a pillar or lolling in a plane seat,
half-ready to laugh at herself in this
gaudy autumn of her youth.
The astonishing thing is that Marlene
has survived all these impersonations as
a warm and attractive human being to
whom audiences instinctively respond.
She has outlasted all her female con-
temporaries except Bette Davis and Joan
Crawford, and where their longevity
AS THE SPY IN "DISHONORED"
seems the result, chiefly, of doggedness,
hers is more due to an unquenchable
generosity of spirit that at once illumi-
nates and transcends her (on paper)
faintly absurd stage presence. Due, too,
at least partly, to the wonderful quality
of hex early films, which have been
honored with a season at the Museum
of Modern Art in New York and still
look as good today as when they were
first made.
Josef von Sternberg directed most of
them between 1930 and 1935 and in a
sense created her as a femme fatale,
remoulding her face into that disdainful,
cool yet vulnerable mask which still
remains largely unaltered. He slimmed
her down, taught her to highlight her
cheekbones and lower her eyelids,
painted the mouth into the thin voracious
line which still carried a flavor of con-
tempt, and blonded the hair or topped
it with a frizzy Harpo Marx wig that
offset the pale cheeks and the lazily cruel
eyes. Photographs of Dietrich before she
met von Sternberg suggest a faintly
school-marmish air; she was raised
in a military family, had a thwarted
scheme to be a violinist, and somehow
survived the Max Reinhardt School of
Dramatic Art to work in minor parts in
films (with Garbo in “The Joyless Street”)
and on stage (Bernard Shaw’s “Misal-
liance”).
T7on Sternberg, an Austrian-born
™ genius who had already made a bril-
liant career in silent films (“Underworld”,
“The Salvation Hunters”), saw her in
the ’twenties in “Two Cravats” and
decided, rather in the manner of Hitch-
cock with Grace Kelly and ‘Tippi’
Hedren, to remould her to his specifica-
tions. Despite the protests of the star,
Emil Jannings (who had wanted Lucie
Mannheim for the role), von Sternberg
and the producer, Erich Pommer, decided
to cast her opposite Jannings in “The
Blue Angel”, from Heinrich Mann’s
novel about an ageing professor ruined
by a cheap suburban tart.
Almost at once, von Sternberg-Dietrich
became a show business legend. To-
gether, they created an unforgettable
image of ruthlessly animal sexuality:
Lola-Lola, the Berlin girl singing Fred-
erick Hollander’s heartless “Falling in
Love Again” from the stage of a seedy
theatre while the Weintraub Syncopators
saw and pound away, pimply students
sweat and the shapeless, bespectacled
professor is hopelessly enslaved (he is
doomed to madness and the final horror
of humiliation at the wedding-feast when
he is made to crow like a cock). The
film was instantly acclaimed the greatest
German production in a decade; Dietrich
went to Hollywood with her director and
mentor; and the professor all bursting
collar, baggy trousers and popping eyes
-—was adjudged the crowning achieve-
ment of Jannings’ acting career.
Dietrich was not again to be matched
in her pictures by a star of equal talent:
her American films were designed to
frame her talent exclusively. Of these,
the first, “Morocco”, was unquestionably
hers and von Sternberg’s masterpiece,
and secured their international fame.
The opening is superb: legionnaires
marching back from battle through the
winding streets of a Moroccan port while
women beckon lasciviously from roof-
tops and windows, one holding a skull
above her head; a muezzin echoing from
a tower, shadows rippling on snow-white
burnouses, and a ship looming out of
the fog, Dietrich emerging from the
mists on deck in an “entrance” as
dramatic as Garbo’s in “Anna Christie”.
Out to a nightclub full of waving silver
fans and sweating soldiers, Dietrich in-
solently making up her face in the dress-
ing-room while the manager hysterically
cajoles her; then striding on to the stage
to sing a splendidly pre-Legion of


FLY
Ansett-ANA
DRIVE
AVIS
RENTA CAR
M
Avis rents Falcons
and other fine cars
FLY AND DRIVE IN ’65. 110 Avis Stations throughout Australia are
ready to give you instant service. Drive one of the great new Falcons
or other fine cars . . . proper insurance protects you and frees you
from care. Avis honours Ansett-ANA and all nationally-recognised
credit cards. Book your Avis car when you book your flight.
ANSETT-ANA
A VIS RENTA CAR
t3»?/83/63
Decency song, “What am I bid for my
apples?” and slipping a key to Legion-
naire Gary Cooper as an open invitation
to her room.
Like a kind of “Blue Angel” in re-
verse, the film shows the coolly im-
placable temptress ruined by her passion
for the soldier: it is like an Ethel M.
Dell novelette reworded by Wedekind.
She first shows her true feelings after
the legionnaire returns from a skirmish:
it is her engagement dinner to a mil-
lionaire, bored guests trying desperately
to make conversation while the drums
that signal Cooper's arrival grow louder
and louder outside. A close-up of Die-
trich's tormented face; her pearls an
engagement present from her fiance
plucked in frustration from her neck;
an immense lateral tracking shot as she
races through dappled arcades looking
for her lover: this is certainly one of
the most hypnotic sequences of the
cinema’s history. And scarcely less
powerful are the scenes at Amalfa, where
she again goes to search for Cooper,
thinking him wounded, the camera racing
along palm leaves and glowing lanterns
in the hospital ward, echoing her pain;
and her last journey out into the desert
to follow his caravan-train, joining the
camp-women and the animals, disappear-
ing over the top of a dune as Lee Garmes’
camera lingers on her in an immense
take, the sound of the wind continuing
in a daring stroke of von Sternberg’s
imagination over the end-titles .. .
“Morocco” made Dietrich's name in
America, and from then on she could
write her own ticket. In the middle of
the Depression, with millions standing in
bread-lines, Helen Morgan singing “My
Bill” and Joan Blondell “Remember My
Forgotten Man”, Dietrich, like Garbo,
impersonated women surrounded by im-
possible luxury, handsome leading-men
and love situations that, however ill-
fated, seemed almost unimaginably ex-
citing to the poverty-stricken public of
the time. In “Dishonored”, she played
a glamorous spy, tapping out the code
to the master-plans on a piano, imperson-
ating, hilariously, a chambermaid, and
winding up before the firing-squad a la
Garbo’s Mata Hari.
Tn “Shanghai Express” she was Shang-
-*• hai Lily, who “wrecked a dozen
men up and down the China Coast”,
risking her life for her army lover on
the Peiping-Shanghai train in a film full
of smoke, crowds, flapping draperies,
bars of shadow, birds fluttering from
under train wheels, feathers and muslin
curtains. In “The Scarlet Empress” she
was Catherine II of Russia, racing from
her impotent husband Peter to the arms
of her imperial guard in an atmosphere
of choirs, candles and papier-mache
nudes as much like a Russian court as
the Folies Bergeres; in “The Devil is a
Woman” she was Concha Perez, the
Spanish sadist of Pierre Louys’ “La
Femme et le Pantin”, surrounded with
streamers, framed delectably over
sequined fans or through mantillas; and
in “Blonde Venus”, the most extrava-
gantly absurd film of the series, she per-
formed on stage in a gorilla suit to pay
her husband’s fare to Germany for a
radium poisoning cure, stripping off paws
to disclose long white hands, removing
the monkey head to plonk a huge blond
puff-ball wig on her own, and moaning
“Hot Voodoo” to a chorus of Hottentots
The Sternberg period was one of in-
creasingly baroque stylisation of Diet-
rich’s gifts. In the end the public tired
of it, and the partnership broke up with
the termination of von Sternberg's Para-
mount contract. His career never re-
covered: his style was less and less ap-
preciated, and he finally ceased working
altogether: an encounter with him earlier


this year confirmed an earlier impression
of an embittered and exhausted man.
But Dietrich proved she could survive
the world this remarkable artist had
created for her: first in two Lubitsch
comedies, “Desire” and “Angel”, and,
later, in Joe Pasternak’s wonderful
Western comedy “Destry Rides Again”.
As the saloon queen Frenchy, belting
out “Let’s See What the Boys in the
Back-Room Will Have” or plunging into
“The Greatest Feminine Fist Fight Ever
Filmed” half-a-reel of hair-pulling and
water-drenching and ankle-biting with
her rival, Una Merkel Dietrich proved
that she had retained all the earthiness
of her Lola-Lola, with an added touch
of American sophistication.
A quick cash-in on the “Destry”
formula in “Seven Sinners” and Rene
Clair's elegant comedy of manners, “The
Flame of New Orleans”, followed in
quick succession: Dietrich's box-office
stock had never been higher. Then the
war created the next chapter of the
legend: at her own expense, clad in GI
overcoat and gloves or shapeless overalls,
she made several enormous tours of the
war-fronts, from Anzio to the Aleutians,
playing a musical saw (“The memory of
her scraping away at this ungainly instru-
ment,” wrote one commentator, “held
between her legs is still green in GI
minds”).
goddess had come down to earth:
-*• she received the Medal of Freedom,
the highest US Army honor for a civilian,
and the Legion d’Honneur; if, before,
she had been admired, now she was
adored. Oddly enough, though, she was
never able to find, in that immediate
post-war period, precisely the right film
vehicle for her talents.
But in night - clubs Dietrich was
to continue the legend that a
series of scriptwriters and directors
were seemingly doing their best to
murder. The celebrated appearance at
the Cafe de Paris in 1954 was, probably,
the high-spot of her post-war career: for
a salary of £2OOO a week (she has since
tripled her fee), she sang‘in a pink spot-
light, was introduced by Noel Coward,
and displayed a splendid figure un-
touched by time. For 40 minutes she
dazzled a distinguished audience: “Lazy
Afternoon”, “The Boys in the Back
Room”, “Falling in Love Again”: the
husky, level voice, half-speaking, half-
singing, the self-amused but still frank
sexuality, the aura of tremendous know-
ledge, of witty but uncynical and tender
comprehension of men’s weaknesses: it
was obvious this was a star that had not
faded, and the London critics exhausted
their resources of superlatives. Richard
Todd, Michael Redgrave, Donald Wolfit,
David Niven, Herbert Lorn, Van John-
son, Laurence Harvey and Robert Mor-
ley introduced her on successive nights
with hymns of praise: has any other star
in the history of show business received
such an accolade?
“Life” magazine featured her on its
cover, and devoted many pages to her
story; she wrote her views on love and
marriage in a series in “McCalls”,
syndicated all over the world; in Las
Vegas she again was a triumph. Paris,
Johannesburg, Moscow: she has been
brilliantly successful in them all. She
even risked a return to Berlin, despite
threats of murder by extremist factions
which had not forgotten her rejection
of Hitler’s and Ribbentrop’s offers to
return there before the war, nor her
assumption of American citizenship. But
once again —as her record “Farewell
in Berlin” testifies she overpowered
the audience which had come so sharp-
eyed to see her.
Today, while so many of her co-stars
have vanished into oblivion, Dietrich still
holds the stage: her collection of paint-
ings—Cezanne, Delacroix, Utrillo, Corot
her highbrow reading habits (Dos-
toevsky, Faulkner), her support of her
retired husband on a California chicken-
farm, her love of pot geraniums,
her reputed financial troubles that
are said to keep her treading the
boards, the face, still bonily beautiful,
and the legs, the other week splendidly
spread in fold-out BOAC advertisements
in “Time” and “Newsweek”; the legend
of Marlene Dietrich is as alive as ever,
and, because of the presence of what one
senses to be a warm and generous per-
sonality inside it, as likeable as ever, too.
ART
Photography Without Preaching
By BILL HANNAN
most under-rated exhibition to pass
A through Melbourne in the last month
was one by four photographers, entitled,
rather badly, “A Time to Love”. The
photographers are Albert Brown, George
Bell, John Crook and Roy McDonald.
Their subjects were Lake Tyers’ Abo-
rigines, bushfires, old people .and insane
children. Some may remember i previous
excellent exhibition by the same group,
somewhat larger in number, on the theme
of “Urban Woman”.
The most obvious and interesting thing
about this group is that it does stick to
subject themes: hence its work has some
depth. Anyone lucky enough to be
acquainted with the farm depression
photography of the American Walker
Evans will know already how much
depth such photography can achieve.
In “A Time to Love” the best illus-
tration of this self-confessed documen-
tary approach is the work of Albert
Brown on Aborigines at Lake Tyers and
in Melbourne. A tricky subject this, and
prone to preaching. It must be remem-
bered, too, that we are conditioned by
most of the photography we see to easy
appeals to sentiment. In Brown’s photo-
graphs, however, we can appreciate the
stance of the genuine documenter. He is
sympathetic towards his* people, he infuses
certainly into his record perceptions
which they may not be aware of, but he
does not distort the quality of their lives
either by internal exaggeration or by
imposed comparisons. There is no
attempt to ennoble the normal dignity of
the people nor any to blacken their poor
surroundings. One senses rather that
however grotesque they may seem, these
are familiar surroundings to people who
lead decent lives in spite of their for-
bidding cultural difficulties. In short, both
human and artistic standards here are
rigorous, among all four photographers.
We need much more photography of
this kind and calibre. It should be more
widely commissioned, both for the
archives and for the education of the
community.
We might, too, at the same time think
of more suitable ways to present photog-
raphy. I am not convinced that it is
adequate to show it like an exhibition of
paintings. Photographs come in greater
numbers and demand less attention. They
also do not need generally to be very
large. To walk through an exhibition is
like going through a book without the
peace or comfort of an armchair.
Another somewhat under-rated exhi-
bition in Melbourne was George John-
son’s. In the 12 years since Johnson
arrived in Melbourne from New Zealand,
we have seen him ring various changes
on fundamentally the same abstract geo-
metric theme. His zig-zag line has by now
become a complicated and expressive
motif. It is still outstandingly the domin-
ant element ir. his design, but it is being
increasingly used to outline figures and
landscape forms, sometimes with a lush
and gay profusion that contrasts strik-
ingly with his customary austere shapes
on white or grey grounds. A large mural,
“Symbols of Life” (commissioned by
Ballarat Teachers’ College) and another
big painting, “Harmony of the World”,
are excellent examples of the wealth that
can be mined from extremely simple ele-
ments.
Among Johnson’s new departures were
a number of low-relief, painted wood
carvings which restate his basic interest
in a dominant line. Obviously they are


Every
office
should have
one...
w
mum
. . . an NCR Class 12 adding machine that is. NCR
has something new in portable, electric adding
machines. A real lightweight, weighing only 10
pounds with a compact Bxl2 inch frame. Most
people wonder how such a small machine can do a
BIG job. The answer is simple. It has many features
of larger, heavier, more expensive adding machines.
A stair-step keyboard, correction lever, digit indi-
cator, transparent tear-off blade, non-add and sub-
total bars, and $99,999,999.99 adding capacity.
You’ll like the price of the Class 12, too. ONLY £7B.
For more information, contact your local NCR repre-
sentative —he’ll bring a Class 12 right to your desk.
SYDNEY
211-2188
MELBOURNE
63-0271
BRISBANE
2-0631
TOWNSVILLE
3276
NEWCASTLE
2-4837
ADELAIDE
51-5821
PERTH
21-9727
HOBART
3-3887
CANBERRA
4-0327
WAGGA
4345
m
HOPING AUSTRALIA CHANGE TO DECIMAL CURRENCY
THE NATIONAL CASH MOISTS* CO. PTT. tTD.


'•In" Drink Of 60’s
%
o°
CF
LIGHT
f
bac;ar
Dry, light, smooth and mature—that's Bacardi!
Completely different to any other rum. Taste
its mellow sophisticated flavour on the rocks.
See how it gives a luxurious new lift to orange
juice and ginger ale. Ask for Bacardi at better
bars and bottle departments. Imported by
McLaughlin and Co., Sydney, from Nassau,
Bahamas.
Naturally it costs more! Trade enquiries,
’phone 29 5535.
BACARDI
tie' mmm mm MUM
an extension of his interest in texturing
his work, which formerly he did with
hessian. Though they catch the eye by
their assured formal arrangement, their
possibilities have not yet been explored
in depth, and they do suffer from John-
son’s abiding uncertainty about color.
At much the same time as these two
exhibitions, Elwyn Lynn was showing at
the South Yarra Galleries and, at Gallery
A, Paul Partos was exhibiting for the
first time.
Elwyn Lynn was in an extremely quiet
mood probably the most withdrawn
textural paintings he has ever done. They
are, of course, none the less absorbing for
their restraint. On the contrary, they
draw closer attention to the simple beaut-
ies of the materials and the carefully
worked balances of the forms.
Paul Partos, in contrast, provided a
feast of glowing color and energetic
figures. At 23 he is undoubtedly the most
promising painter in Melbourne. Stylis-
tically he jffers nothing particularly new:
he shares with many young painters the
resurgence of interest in the human
figure, and the sources of his distortions
and geometric elements are readily trace-
able. What he does offer are qualities
much more valuable than stylistic inno-
vations: rich, confident painting and a
deep appreciation of the potential of the
human figure both as a formal element
and as a subject in itself. His paintwork
is the sort you want to fondle; his colors
are intoxicating; his formal control,
though on a quite large scale, is subtle
and coherent I may have fallen for
brilliant display, but I am still sure that
Partos will be a painter of real stature.
Since the Fairweather retrospective is
moving round the States fairly slowly, I
shall reserve comment on it in favor of
the more recent exhibition of Nolan’s
Antarctica series at Australian Galleries.
The series will, I believe, shortly go to
Adelaide, but maybe not elsewhere. It is
a very fine series, made from what seems
an unpromising subject.
The Antarctic Nolan presents is the
savage and awesome land of the first
explorers of Scott and Amundsen.
About a third of the series is devoted to
anonymous figures labelled “explorers”.
Most of them Stare out at you from inky
backgrounds with an expression of numb
bewilderment. Everything about them
serves to reduce their human identity:
the black sunglasses turn their eyes into
skeleton sockets; their frosted whiskers
make them look bemused; their fur wrap-
pings insulate them from the world. In
fact, despite the change of location, the
men of Nolan's Antarctica resemble the
men of several of his other series: they
are displaced heroes, figures who survive
in their environment, #ho even become
part of it, but v/ho have failed to domi-
nate it.
This globe-trotting documentation of
Nolan’s has something very much of the
Romantic about it. Perhaps it is a very
just extension of the Australian tradition.
Certainly it expresses a vigorous faith in
the grandeur of nature and in man’s
ability to hang on; and it does, to judge
by local interest, have a very wide appeal
without debasing itself.
THEATRE
Voice from a
Machine
Krapp’s Last Tape. Samuel Beckett. Com-
munity Theatre Company. St Alban’s
War Memorial Hall, Lindfield, Sydney.
JTlhis programme is the first presentation
A of the Community Theatre Company
which plans to establish a permanent
professional repertory theatre in Kuring-
gai under the direction of Alexander
Archdale. If the company is able to keep
up the standard of this first offering, then
it will be a most exciting addition to the
theatrical life of Sydney.
The curtain rises on Krapp on his
69th birthday, shambling, near-sighted
and partly deaf, preparing, as he has
always done on his birthday, to review
his past year on tape. But before doing
so he plays over the tape he made 30
years ago on his 39th birthday.
A strong, rather pompous, voice comes
out of the machine, talking about his
mother’s death, a love affair, his plans
for the future and life in general. Old
Krapp sits listening, brooding, snorting,
or puzzling over an unusual word. But
as soon as the large generalisations about
life begin, he impatiently switches off and
winds the tape on until he comes to a
passage describing an idyllic afternoon
of lovemaking in a punt.
Alone, unsuccessful, his great work
never written, Krapp is left with only
sensual pleasures: greedily eating the
bananas that are bad for him, gulping
down his booze, re-playing the love scene
and even, like a small child, gaining a
sensual pleasure from the word “spool”.
I suppose Krapp is intended by Beckett
to be a portrait of futility, emotionally as
well as physically constipated. But be-
cause of the vitality of the language
Krapp does not appear as an image of
hopelessness. Beckett is a lord of
language and especially of dramatic
speech. By his mastery of vivid phrase
and exact timing he disti’s both poetry
and comedy from the failures and dis-
appointments of Krapp’s anti-climactic
life.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
Brecht Revisited
Brecht on Brecht. Emerald Hill Theatre,
Melbourne.
Chase Me, Comrade. Ray Cooney. Comedy
Theatre, Melbourne.
“T>recht On Brecht” was a great
success off Broadway, in Europe,
and in Israel, but it has not been seen
in East Berlin. Brecht died before
George Tabori hit on the idea of making
a sort of living newspaper out of excerpts
from his plays and his writings on the
theatre. Whether he would have given
his consent is an open question, for the
result is not representative of the whole
Brecht. It leaves out his earlier, romantic
period which, however, the playwright
himself may have liked to forget.
This kind of presentation is very
difficult to do well, because it asks of
the actor-readers that they should under-
stand Brecht thoroughly. We know how
he wanted the audience to respond to his
work: as individuals, not as a collective,
and not emotionally. Brecht tries to
make us forget the absence of visible


action. In a sense we are a test of
Brecht’s theories. Is the content of ideas
strong enough without the usual props?
I am not sure what the answer should
be. Some of the material is magnificent,
and its impact almost automatic. It is
fine that we should have a chance to
hear it, and this is certainly an evening
not to be missed. But it isn’t a magic
evening. The cast has not worked long
and intensively enough to get behind the
words: it has not been taught that what
is feed for Brecht is a touch of ice
the paradox of cold fire. There is too
much “feeling”, too much conventional
warmth which runs counter to the inten-
tions of the playwright. The production
is at fault partly because it does not
grasp as I think the New York one
did the opportunities of active theatre.
“The Jewish Wife”, for instance, gives
more scope for acting than Mr Cherry
permits. Here it is rather statically
delivered.
“Chase Me, Comrade” is, I’m afraid,
already hazy in my mind. I vaguely
recall a wild farce in which Mai Car-
mont impersonated Petrovian (alias
Nureyev) bursting into the home of an
English Admiral, with Malcolm Phillips
as a loony from the British Security
Establishment and Lorraine Bayly as the
admiral's daughter. I have a vague
recollection of a policeman whistling,
men in chimneys and a tiger rug that
goes walkabout, and of people near me
laughing heartily.
DAVID MARTIN
FILMS
Girls, Gaiety,
Leisure
The Easy Life. Director, Dino Risi. Lido
Theatre, Sydney.
Those Magnificent Men in Their Flying
Machines. Director, Ken Annakin. Paris
Theatre, Sydney.
Tn the past decade the expression “black
comedy” has been done to death.
Surely all the best comedies are based
■on a serious premise, once you get past
the slipping on a banana-skin routine?
The pill hides in its coating of sugar
and spice, but it’s there; and it’s probably
never been so cunningly concealed, so
jolting in its effect, as in “The Easy Life”.
This extraordinary film is essentially
a modern morality play whose lesson
that self-indulgence brings only emptiness
and despair—is that of “La Dolce Vita”;
yet with how much more grace, style
and economy it is expressed! Fellini’s
film, though interesting and eminently
sincere, was often muddled and pre-
tentious in its delving into “inner mean-
ings”. Dino Risi whisks over the glitter-
ing surface as effortlessly as a champion
water-skier, and carries his audience
MIDDY
Middy at Jose Greco's first night,
Her Majesty's Theatre, Sydney.


m
m
§n
:
»■?
m
m
m
m
kT:*£
<***
m
fit
■'■;
m
to*
Every pipe is a classic to its owner:
now there is one classic tobacco for every pipe
Benson & Hedges Special Smoking
Mixture is truly a classic among pipe
tobaccos. It is cut rather coarsely to
ensure cooler, slower smoking. It is
aromatic, mild, smooth. And it is
carefully blended from Latakia,
Perique and other distinctive leaf.
Modestly priced at 7/9 a tin, Benson
& Hedges Special Smoking Mixture
is the right tobacco when only the best
will do. And isn’t that all the time?
mm
Bmsow andHebges
SPECIAL SMOKING MIXTURE
ca soss—s-c*
along, and at the end the spectator is left
shocked and gasping as though he’d been
flung into the depths of an icy sea.
Until the shattering climax, Risi uses
the form of effervescent comedy to state
his thesis that the pursuit of selfish
pleasure is meaningless despite its surface
glitter, and that charm without a founda-
tion of moral values is one of the most
destructive things on earth. In Rome on
a summer holiday weekend, the dashing
playboy Bruno, bored and at a loose end,
practically abducts a shy, inassertive
student. Bruno and his reluctantly
fascinated passenger dash off at too-high
speed in a sports car with an insolent,
four-note klaxon; the boy is introduced
to a life of girls, gaiety, leisure; he sees
his new friend effortlessly and cynically
winning the approval of anyone he wants
to attract. And it is the student who cries
for greater speed as they hurtle towards
the inevitable, shocking climax.
“Those Magnificent Men” is an
amiable, unsophisticated romp about a
1910 air race from London to Paris.
Though it never achieves the high comedy
obviously aimed at, this is an extremely
likeable film and often very pleasant toi
look at.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
RECORDINGS
Black Velvet
Ole. Johnny Mathis. His Master’s Voice]
OCLP 1818.
Songs from Cat Ballou and other Motiorf
Pictures. Nat “King” Cole. Capitol
T 2340.
My Name is Barbra. Barbra Streisand
CBS SBP 233231.
Harlow. Music by Nelson Riddle. Warner
1599.
You Gotta Go! Go! Go! Frances Faye
Stateside. OSL 10010.
Tnexcusable, one can’t help thinking
that no one has seen fit to brinj
Johnny Mathis to Australia: he would
be superbly suited to the atmosphere of,
say, the Silver Spade in Sydney. Now
that Nat “King” Cole is no longer with
us, Mr Mathis is the most accomplishec
of all the black-velvet brand of torch
singers, and his sleekly tailored, and-
rogynous voice, subtly modulated anc
encompassing a fine range, is at its very
best on “Ole”. His “Babalu” is a triumph
of virtuosity, the voice soaring up to a
pitch of ferocious intensity in an im-
maculate Spanish accent, accompanied
with great skill by a small ensemble (in-
cluding guitar) from Jack Feierman’s
orchestra.
What can one say of Nat “King”
Cole’s selection from his film tracks
“Cat Ballou”, “Night of the Quarterf
Moon” and others • except that it dis-
plays this incomparable artist at the
various peaks of his powers? Not a hint,
of his final illness mars the more recent
recordings, and at his most striking—in|
the sinuous “Blue Gardenia”, from Fritzy
Lang’s movie of the same name, the
beautiful “Quarter Moon”, and the
exquisite “Never Let Me Go” —h(
ravishes the senses with the most fluii
and gently persuasive of tones.
Unfortunately, I can’t say the same
of Miss Streisand’s “My Name is Barbra”.
A looker, no doubt of it; a highly skilled]
personality-seller on stage, I’m prepared
to believe; but I can only say that for
all her octave-jumping she still strikes
me as having the ugliest and most
defiantly graceless voice in Christendom
Ears recovering from this ordeal will|
scarcely be soothed by “Harlow’s” tedious
score, done by Nelson Riddle, but they
may be more gently injured by Frances
Faye, who on “Go! Go! Go!” shouts he)
way with almost masculine zeal through
a most peculiar selection of numbers;
whoever thought of getting her to do
“Indian Love Call” deserves a prize of
sorts, I suppose.
CHARLES HIGHAD


■ - '
m
warn
i
PROGRESS
HOW
DO YOU
MEASURE
IT?
In 20th century Australia, oil is a good
indicator of progress.
In 1901 when Shell opened its first small
bulk installations at Gore Bay, New South
Wales, Birkenhead, South Australia, and
Williamstown, Victoria, there were barely
100 motor vehicles in Australia. Annual
usage of petroleum products (mainly light-
ing kerosene) was a few thousand tons.
Today there are more than 3,500,000 motor
vehicles in Australia and yearly fuel con-
sumption has rocketed to 15,000,000 tons.
Shell now represents a £150,000,000
capital investment employing 6,000 people
throughout Australia engaged in explora-
tion, manufacturing, distribution and
marketing and supplying the energy needs
of transport, industry, aviation, agriculture.
Shell in Australia
an organization on the move in a nation taking great strides towards a bigger, better destiny«
PR6S/S?


BOOKS
Yeats in the Lit. Machine
By LEONIE KRAMER
In Excited Reverie. A Centenary Tribute.
W. B. Yeats. Ed. A. Norman Jeffares
and G. K. W. Cross. Macmillan. 70s.
‘TPhe day the news of Yeats’s death
■*- reached Dublin I was lunching with
my mother’s sister, Hanna Sheehy Skef-
fington.” By a happy accident that was
the sentence which first caught my atten-
tion in “In Excited Reverie”. It struck
the note of enthusiastic recollection
promised by the title. But then I turned
back a few pages and met this: “In all
cases I showed, as I had for ‘The
Countess Cathleen’, similarities between
the verso-page version and the basic text
by bracketed line-numbers in the verso
margins, and identities by unbracketed
line-numbers.” Not all was to be excite-
ment, evidently, in this centenary tribute
to the memory of W. B. Yeats.
These two sentences conveniently re-
present what is for me one of the puzzles
of the book. At whom is it directed? The
title, the Nolan dust-cover (it would be
interesting to meet a new cover artist
one of these days), and the poems by
Hugh Mac Diarmid, A. D. Hope, Bren-
dan Kennelly and Randolph Stow, sug-
gest that Cross and Jeffares are aiming
at the Yeats-lover the humble reader
who has not tried to explicate “A
Vision”, and who is not very concerned
about Yeats’s debt to Spenser, Oriental
philosophy, Vico or Madam Blavatsky.
Certain essays, too, seem to be directed
at a wide audience. There is a brief
sketch by Lennox Robinson, which sup-
plies a few personal, homely recollec-
tions; a “Dublin portrait” by W. R.
Rodgers, and a brief biographical account
of Yeats’s father by Professor Jeffares.
From these the “common reader” will
glean some interesting information on
the poet’s life and personality couched
in language which does not demand of
him the special vocabulary of the scholar
or academic critic. If he were fortunate
enough to pick at random Conor Cruise
O’Brien’s long essay on Yeats’s politics
(of which more later) he would find
even more substantial rewards. Un-
fortunately though, long before he
reached it he would be lost in the swamps
of specialist criticism, and might never
reach the clear path ahead. For most of
the essays are academic in subject and
approach, and several are highly special-
ised in the sense of having a great deal
to say about relatively little. It is easy
to be smart at the expense of the scholarly
article, and difficult to defend it before
a general audience. This is my worry.
If “In Excited Reverie” is intended for
a wide audience, then much of its
material is simply unsuitable for the
purpose. If on the other hand it is
intended for the student, the teacher and
the Yeats scholar, then it is not nearly
good enough.
Why this should be so is the second
puzzle of the book. The contributors
are for the most part men well known
for their work on Yeats, but here they
signally fail to distinguish themselves. Of
them all David Daiches on the early
poetry is the most readable, though even
he writes below his usual standard. Pro-
fessor Stock on Yeats on Spenser says
little more than that some ideas which
are to be found in Yeats’s Spenser essay
W. B. YEATS
reappear in his later work, and some do
not. (But it takes longer than that.)
T. R. Henn is quite remarkably uncon-
vincing on “The Rhetoric of Yeats”, and
seems committed to some strange critical
assumptions. Hazard Adams writes on
“Some Yeatsian Versions of Comedy”
with such solemnity that one can hardly
take his views seriously. Donald Tor-
chiana takes many pages and much detail
about Yeats’s views on education to say
less about “Among School Children”
than I would have believed possible.
What he says about education and the
“Irish spirit” is interesting in itself, but
it simply does not lead to any important
conclusions about the poem. And how-
ever the editors conceive their audience,
Russell Alspach’s essay on “The Vari-
orum Edition of Yeats’s Plays” (from
which my second sentence was quoted)
belongs only in the book of which it is
to form a part—namely, “The Variorum
Edition of the Plays of W. B. Yeats”.
Fortunately, all is not waste and dis-
appointment. Jon Stallworthy writes a
straightforward, unpretentious and ex-
tremely interesting essay on “Yeats as
Anthologist”. He tells the strange story
of Yeats’s compilation of the now
notorious “Oxford Book of Modern
Verse”, with its 14i pages of T. S. Eliot,
17 of Turner, 17i of Dorothy Wellesley,
19 of Edith Sitwell, and none of Wilfred
Owen (among others). From the cor-
respondence quoted by Stallworthy and
his own well-judged comments emerges
a clear view of Yeats’s poetic prejudices
at the time.
Then there is Conor Cruise O’Brien on
the politics of Yeats. This is far and
away the best essay in the book, and
somewhere concealed in it is a moral for
the academic critic and scholar. Mr
O’Brien has been a diplomat for most of
his life, and he writes as a man whose
first interest is politics rather than
criticism. He writes, too, as a man
unsympathetic to the political attitudes
Yeats developed in his later years. Yet
ironically enough he xheds more light on
the poetry than most of his fellow con-
tributors who imagine themselves to be
putting critical appreciation first. With-
out employing the jargon of the schools,
he manages to convey with precision and
feeling the meaning and value of certain
poems. After Mr Torchiana’s laborious
tussle with “Among School Children” it
is quite extraordinary to read O’Brien on
“Leda and the Swan”. Without pretend-
ing to discuss it in detail, but simply by
placing it in. its political setting and by
supplying Yeats’s own comment on the
difference between his original intentions
and his achievement, he focuses it sharply
for the reader.
This is not intended as an argument
against the detailed examination of
poetry. But the contrast between Mr
O’Brien’s essay and the concentrated
attention given to a small subject by some
of his fellow-contributors is both startling
and disturbing, since it provokes some
serious reflections upon literary scholar-
ship. When I first met Yeats’s poetry
there was little one could read about it.
Now one has to hack way through
a jungle of criticism. Sometimes it seems
to me that the more he is “explicated”
the harder it is to get in touch with him.
After reading “In Excited Reverie” I
went back to the first book of tributes
to Yeats, “Scattering Branches”. It was
like entering a lost paradise. Sir John
Rothenstein looks at him with a painter’s
eye, Maud Gonne recalls her walks with
Willie in the Dublin hills, and Edmund
Dulac ends his tribute with a plea that
we should “keep in all its simplicity the
clear outline of a figure that has soared
far enough above the atmosphere of his
period to be free from its humbug and
morbidity”. This is no argument against
the efforts of scholars and critics, and
after all, the “mighty lit. machine”, as
A. D. Hope has called it, must be fed.


John Hetherington
UNCOMMON MEN
Twenty-four famous Austra-
lians, whose careers and
personalities are discussed
incisively and entertainingly.
Illustrated by Louis Kahan 36/-
F. W. CHESHIRE
Melbourne Canberra Sydney
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: SHIRLEY DAPHNE JOAN CATTELL.
TAKE NOTICE that COLIN CATTELL of 179
Marsh Street, Armidale in the State of New
South Wales has filed a petition No. 2531 of
1965 for divorce, on the ground of desertion
and separation. If you wish to defend you
may file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney on or before the 22nd Novem-
ber 1965 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from Messrs R. A. Biddulph
Smith and Mair Solicitors of 137 Beardy
Street, Armidale or from their city agents
BIDDULPH AND SALENGER, 149 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney—C. A. R. HARMS, Registrar.
gut does the subject (or victim) always
’retain the centre of the stage? Or is he
in danger of being hidden by the scaffold-
| jng erected to dust his dark corners? The
(essays in “In Excited Reverie” and Pro-
Ifessor Cross’s survey of Yeats criticism
land research measure the increase in our
information about the poet in the 25
years since “Scattering Branches”. We
can be grateful for this while at the same
time recognising the danger of adding
not to our understanding but merely to
that store of “blear-eyed wisdom” Yeats
deplored.
Sydneysiders
By NANCY KEESING
Aunts Up the Cross. Robin Eakin. Blond.
235.
i TVuring the ’3os and ’4os when I was
I” at school and"first grown up, the
I name of Eakin “pervaded” Sydney. There
; was Dr Eakin, subject of many anecdotes
land praise for his generosity to non-
I paying patients in the depression years;
ijiis household at the Cross; and, most of
(all to girls of my generation, his daughter
[Robin. Without her no social page in
any newspaper seemed complete. She was
symbolic of all that the shy, gauche or
strictly disciplined disapproved sancti-
moniously in conversation, but of which
we were desperately envious in the hon-
esty of our hearts.
I never knew Robin Eakin. She left
one of my schools before my time there
and was older, I suppose, than several
of her cousins with whom I sometimes
played. But I knew, or my family knew
and I have heard of, many of the people
in her book and I read it with a guilty
fascination. It is terribly funny and ter-
ribly unkind; tremendously enjoyable,
yet I deplore a good deal of it. Perhaps
because of a special awareness of some
of its background subtleties, I find cer-
tain anecdotes unequivocally spiteful.
One can disapprove (as 1 very em-
phatically do) of families who ostracise
members who marry into other religions,
but one can still dislike pure malice as a
retaliatory measure against injustice,
whether in the classics or one’s own time.
I do not wish to give an impression
of objecting to the actual use of the
marvellous material in this book. On the
contrary one can only welcome most
of this sprightly account as an asset
to our minor letters. But a few instances
of name-dropping are pretty inexcusable,
especially when exaggeration has been
very cleverly employed. Again, one ap-
plauds the exaggeration, for it is a car-
dinal sin to spoil a good story for want
of good telling, and these are good stor-
ies. But sometimes they would be equally
funny to general readers, and far less
Quetzalcoatl
“I will return,” said Quetzalcoatl the god
among bright birds, attendants singing
and wondering.
“You, who shall remember me as silver
and shells,
ivind into the morning, the plumes of the
serpent,
you must rehearse and await me.” Crying
| birds wheeling,
around him, and all the limitless
ocean.
“In the erosive sun, restless and wonder-
ing
long after all has been decided, dead shells
on the sand, dead skin husked from
' the serpent,
'flesh into pelt with the offal tossed to the
wheeling
carolling sea birds, you shall crouch by
Ithe ocean,
quarrelling, awaiting my promise. Keep
vigil.” “You are god!”
[All the waves to forever broke on the
! shells
i at their feet, and his craft was a diminish-
ing serpent,
a speck, a shadow, and all the morning
was wheeling
[among them already. They gazed East
at the ocean,
crested with brightness, sun, like a
usurping god,
and they counted their loss, questioning,
wondering.
Remembering was hardest. Bearing the
husk of the serpent
before them, they danced in the evenings
to their own blood wheeling
high among drum-beats and drowned in
the impatient ocean
within them, distending and altering the
texture of the god.
But something remained. In the uneasy
ritual, the wondering
chafed and persisted, a voice in the dead
shells.
Keep vigil.” And they rehearsed for his
return among his wheeling
and feathered bright attendants, dead
birds on an ocean
of lights and minutes, intoning: “It is the
might of god
to reverse his pattern pelt into flesh
(wondering
and animate), molluscs restored to their
shells,
the skin regrafted on to the shrunken
serpent;
yes, it can all be achieved!” Out of the
ocean
they picked up tokens of Quetzalcoatl; the
g°d
was corn swelling, life quickening and
wondering:
Oh, the seasons did not falter! Each tide
threw up shells.
The winds were birds prophesying, plumes
of the serpent . . .
Or shadows of bone? Dead cages pivoting
and wheeling?
At last, at last, a messenger: “Hail Monte-
zuma! the god
returns —amazing craft from the East!”
Crowding, wondering,
they saw from the beach dark Spanish
ships rut the ocean.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT


ALFRED
DEAKIN
A Biography
J. A. LA NAUZE
A superb 2-vol. biography on
the major figure of Australian
Federation, written with
insight and authority.
732 pp. £6.1 Os., 2s. 11d.
MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY PRESS
wounding to surviving protagonists, had
their hilarity been allied with tact.
Probably for these reasons I found
the book most pleasing when its author
tells tales of or against herself or her
parents this is fair game and her
mother and father would obviously have
enjoyed the fun wholeheartedly. One
supposes that Miss Eakin inherited her
marvellous sense of timing from her
father who, even when he accidentally
shot off his kneecap, managed to pull
the trigger of a small pistol just as his
prize female hypochondriac had asked
“Don't you think I should have some-
thing to calm my nerves?”
The other facet of “Aunts Up the
Cross” which is of especial interest, and
remains somewhat submerged beneath
the waves and gusts of surface laughter,
is the documentation of an exuberant
urban family. Miss Eakin’s great-aunts
were daughters of a Polish Jew, descend-
ant of a long line of “distinguished and
learned Rabbis”, who had swum the
Vistula when he was fifteen to avoid mili-
tarv conscription and who eventually
migrated to Australia, In Sydney he
pioneered billboard advertising, built a
mansion in Macleay Street called “Mara-
manah” and fathered a large family who
used to be especially noted for their
love of music and for the musical even-
ings they arranged at a time when cul-
tural activity of this kind was very rare
in Sydney. Some of these children, in
their turn, married into other notable
nineteenth-century Jewish families and
the book does give some idea of their
culture, wide reading and influence. It
does not trace (and within its compass
it could not or within its style should
not) the present-day ramifications of
these people in public life, culture, and
philanthropy (one of the surviving
great-aunts recently donated an import-
ant literary prize). Families such as this
have, as yet, had no chroniclers to match
Mary Durack, Judith Wright and others
wh o have described the founders of pas-
toral empires.
The illustrations by Dinah Dryhurst
are integral and as nostalgic, witty and
occasionally cruel as the text.
Machine’s-eye View
By SYBILLE SMITH
The Giant Dwarfs: Gisela Eisner. Weiden-
feld and Nicolson. 31s. 6d.
A title-page note to Gisela Eisner’s
Formentor Prize-winning novel “The
Giant Dwarfs” tells us we are to see a
“more profound reality”, a world so ugly
that it can only be apprehended by the
innocent eyes of a child, one which
“makes a mockery of Wordsworth’s ‘ln-
timations’ . . . but that Blake would have
understood.”
The narrator is a small child, and his
world contains neither innocence nor ex-
perience. His name is Lother Leinlein:
lein is a German diminutive ending,
and Lother Leinlein is in fact a diminu-
tive of a diminutive rather than a human
being at any recognisable stage of de-
velopment. A child’s view can be reveal-
ing, even shocking, because the contin-
gencies and hypocrisies which blur the
adult view are eliminated, allowing direct
response. What has been eliminated in
Lother’s case is the response itself. He
has no human substance to which to
relate what he sees, and he recognises
no human substance in what he sees. His
lack of suppression and selection, the
blank recording stare, are not those of a
child but those of a machine. Devoid of
reaction or sensation, his description of
objects and processes have all the arres-
ting clarity of an inventory of useless
furniture in an abandoned building.
Compulsive cataloguing alternates,
without change of tone, with passages of
grotesque surrealism designed to reveal
the true nature of apparently innocent
human activities. Eating turns to can-
nibalism, human relationships to sadism
or masochism. Any action requiring mind,
will, spirit even one as simple as
sewing on a button is revealed to in-
volve insurmountable difficulties. Only
physical needs can issue into action, and
the physical is seen as repulsive.
This presumably constitutes the
“deeper reality”. But if a revelation of
“deeper reality” is to take place, the
author must establish a very sensitively
and individually apprehended point where
normality and distortion, surface and
depth, enter into some sort of necessary
relationship. Miss Eisner never finds such
a point. The distortions remain arbitrary,
the view one of private obsession.
In its elimination of character defini-
tion and development “Giant Dwarfs”
has certain affinities with the anti-novel.l
It goes even further in eliminating sensi-
bility and response of any kind, even the
most fragmentary. We are given only
specifications for reality, not a world
made real by being lived. The reader
no longer apprehends, through his re-
sponses to and with a character, the
states that are being presented, but ex-
periences them in actuality. He is not,
for instance, made to perceive that
Lother’s world is boring he must him-
self be bored. The whole intricate system
connecting art and reality is short-cir-
cuited.
The translation raises additional prob-
lems. The fact that the prose is slack
and lumpy should not be blamed on the
translator, as this is a quality of the
original. There are, however, flaws in the
English, the most consistent being the use
of “rump” for “torso” or “body”—hence
bizarre anatomical effects such as “her
upper arms standing out from her rump”,
and “rumpless heads”, not to mention
“headless rumps”. A difficulty of which
the translator does not seem aware arises
in Chapter 7, where Lother, who can’t
read, takes five pages to describe the
shapes of letters in a framed text, e.g.,
“The third letter, not yet described, after
the gap the size of a letter consists of a
vertical stroke that is just as long as the
stroke of this letter that consists only of
this stroke. At its upper end there is
a horizontal stroke, a little shorter, that
is cut in two by the vertical stroke so
that both halves of the horizontal stroke
stick out the same length at both sides of
the vertical.”
If one traces these shapes out and
pieces them together, there emerges the
German for “God speaks the truth”. In
English, of course, the letters make ho
sense; but as, for all their relevance in
the context, they might as well spell out
“It’s moments like these you need Min-
ties”; nothing vital is lost.


Stotts
TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
Stott’s renowned home-study courses
can raise your pay. Each course has
been prepared by highly-qualified
professionals. Stott's step-by-step in-
struction plus the personal tuition of
expert instructors will ensure fast and
thorough progress.
( )Accountancy
( ) Cost Accountancy
( ) industrial Organisation
and Control
( ) Business Statistics
( ) Advertising
( ) Economics
) Secretaryship
) Business Admin.
) Salesmanship
i ) Sales Management
) Personnel
Management
( ) Commercial Law
Stott’s curriculum contains over 100
courses.
POST THIS COUPON NOW -----s.
* STOTT’S TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE !
COLLEGE
1 157 Flinders Lane, Melb. 383 George St., ®
1 Sydney. 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane. 45 !
* Gilles St., Adelaide. 1130 Hay St., Perth. !
* Please send me your prospectus on .
| ADDRESS -
J ...AGE
I I understand that no sales representative
l will call on me. £2565
BLUE MOUNTAINS
ART COMPETITION
Closing date:
29th OCTOBER, 1965
PRIZES TOTALLING
£215
Also Junior Sections
For details write to:
TOWN CLERK
Blue Mountains City Council
KATOOMBA, N.S.W.
ANCESTRY TRACED
Historical research can help you discover your
British Ancestors. When writing please give
information already known.
BROOKS & SIMPSON
Genealogists
5 Fenchurch Street, London, E.C.3.
The Adolescence Kick
By R. M. WILDING
A Molher's Kisses. Bruce Jay Friedman.
Jonathan Cape. 265.. 6d.
Voices of a Summer Day. Irwin Shaw.
Weidenfeld & Nicolson. 20s.
There have been lots of books about
adolescents, lots of books that have
been adolescent or written by adolescents.
Bruce Jay Friedman has found an un-
filled niche amongst them all, and pro-
duced a book of the way an adolescent
thinks. Not that Joseph thinks for all of
the time. Often he watches; he watches
his mother’s fat Irish friend every time
she crosses her legs; he has scruples about
this; he “was not sure whether he was
supposed to look inside them and decided
to take peeks at the alternate ones, staring
out of the window for the others.” He
lies awake at night to watch his sister
undressing; the night he goes out with
some delinquent gang he watches while
the girl they take with them undresses
and they scrub her in the bath.
1,1 Sometimes he acts; like locking the
bathroom door and wearing his sister’s
pyjamas; or like exploring the girl he
meets at the camp at which he is a
waiter. But when she gets excited she
makes a noise like “a sudden plumbing
defect in a far off house at midnight” and
after a few times this discourages him.
Meg, Joseph’s mother, tries to get him
i into a college—succeeds, and installs her-
self with him in a single hotel room. It
embarrasses Joseph and the last part of.
the novel is concerned with his breaking
away from her and sending her back
home.
Often the novel is very funny
though a lot of the humor is of a
pretty stock sort. Joseph’s father, for
instance, makes couches and couches
provide him with the material for his
views on life the good workmanship
in a couch is an analogy for the strangest
things. And the antics of the mother,
charming shopkeepers and colonels to
advance her son, don’t strike me as wild-
ly original or interesting.
Everyone talks in clipped, staccato
phrases, and I suppose what it’s most
reminiscent of is some radio comedy
series “Ma and Joseph” with the
jokes, the non-sequiturs, the smart re-
plies, the grotesque incidents but a
radio show that has got involved in the
current vogue for the sick. “She remind-
ed Joseph of a girl in his neighborhood
who was always going off summers to
have things done to her head, later to
appear on the street tightly wedged be-
tween her parents, smiling sweetly.” And
all the time there are Joseph’s secret
sexual speculations and fantasies.
Irwin Shaw covers much of the same
territory in “Voices of a Summer Day”
America, American childhood and
adolescence holiday camps, college
people, sex fantasies, and the fact of
being Jewish in America. He treats it
all perhaps in a less off-beat way. Per-
haps, too, he’s much more simple-mind-
ed about it.
Benjamin Federov spends a summer
afternoon watching a baseball game,
chatting to an ex-mistress, meditating on
his life and loves. He doesn’t accept
America uncritically there’s some ex-
plicit social criticism in the memories of
the Spcco-Vanzetti case, in the more re-
cent memory of the Dallas high school
children chanting “Kennedy gawn, John-
son next”, and in the varying anti-Semitic
attitudes he’s brushed against. There was
that affair with the daughter of a Metho-
dist minister, a girl who told him “I
can only have an orgasm with a bestial
Jew”.
All the same, after all the qualifica-
tions, Federov does accept America. It’s
nice in the sun watching baseball and
the novel is basically an unsophisticated
series of sketches of life in the States.
There’s nothing demanding about Shaw’s
attitudes or writing—it’s leisurely, easy to
absorb, the sort of thing you could read
in “Ladies’ Home Journal”. The lack of
pretension saves the novel: and, indeed,
we are momentarily stirred by the Sacco-
Vanzetti case, and we can remember
similar hurts in our childhood to those
Benjamin felt in his. And the low pres-
sure of it all suits exactly the low pres-
sure of the unconnected memories of
Benjamin sitting in the sun, and suits,
too, his middle-aged easy acceptance of
everything. It’s a soothing anthem of
armchair liberal humanism the sort
you hum sitting down.
The Angler
On the creasing current
Where the thong-thin creek widens
To bulge in sinews and fist-knots of water,
He plies his skill.
Fish flashes from the overhang
Of thatch-matted bank, slides
Like a second shadow
From his shadow on the stream,
And silhouettes
To the tensing strike
That tingles
In fingers taut on the reel.
Till on the tussock-and-blackberried bank
The trout, real now that was shape and
ripple,
Snaps like a jerking finger
Lopped from the hand of the stream.
B. A. BREEN


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Dollar Curb Ineffective
TJOLUNTARY curbs by US companies on their capital spending abroad evidently
* did not show up in official figures and tighter restrictions are now suggested. US
Secretary of Commerce Mr John Connor has told US businessmen they must tighten
up still further, but insists that no official restraints will be placed on the outflow of
money.
Although most US companies heeded
the request for voluntary restraints, there
have been extenuating circumstances
which prompted some of them to beat
the gun before the official request or to
go ahead with overseas investments which
already were in the pipeline.
The US Treasury is now asking for
more precise information on how US
corporations are adhering to their in-
dividual programmes of capital restraint.
The US Government has been wield-
ing a threatening stick by saying that
further action will be taken if the dollar
drain continues. The drain indeed has
continued, because American investment
abroad in the six months to June almost
doubled to 2100 million dollars com-
pared with the corresponding first half
of 1964.
Even with the recognition that many
big capital commitments were made in
December and January, before the vol-
untary curbs came into effect, the sharp
jump in overseas capital spending has
proved a source of embarrassment to
the Administration. It seems at this stage
that US investments abroad in 1965 will
still show a rise of about 1000 million
dollars to 3500 million dollars.
From the long-term viewpoint, the in-
vestment of US dollars eventually will
bring earnings back to the ’States, so
helping to bolster the balance of pay-
ments in future years. But it takes some
years for capital to earn its keep.
Meanwhile the US Government is not
achieving the target it set itself for ad-
justing its balance of payments. If the
US cannot get its overseas balances in
line it is difficult to moralise about other
nations. Many small nations are, in fact,
hoping that the US will give up its policy
of maintaining a tight rein on overseas
spending, because these nations will have
better prospects of balancing their own
payments deficit if the US spends more
abroad.
What they really fear, however, is that
the US might introduce official restric-
tions if the voluntary restraints prove
ineffective. This could cause a further
loss of confidence in overseas markets
and create an additional tightening in
economic conditions.
The US, having adopted the mantle
of Uncle Zorro in the Western democ-
racies, must engage in fancy footwork
to avoid tripping. In attempting to put
US finances in order, financial and eco-
nomic problems are created in other
parts of the world.
Australia, at least, should be grateful
that the capital inflow from the US has
been maintained; official figures reveal
that overseas capital continues to cover
up losses on trade and invisible items
on current account.
More than Blarney
A 17-member tourist mission has
lately been crying the virtues and
attractions of Ireland throughout Aus-
tralia, spurred onward, no doubt, by a
market of 90,000 Australians travelling
to Europe each year and the largely
untapped reservoir of 21 million Aus-
tralians of Irish extraction. Only 2000
visitors from Australia can now be
induced to go to Ireland a year.
Tourism gives Ireland an important
20 per cent, or some £ABS million, of
its foreign earnings. Yet the Republic
is now far removed from only a well-
publicised repository of ghosties, little
people and leprechauns. The last six or
seven years in particular have seen
striking overall economic progress.
PRESIDENT JOHNSON
Up to about 1958, gross national
product moved very little, the balance
of payments was weak, and the standard
of living stayed obstinately lower than in
most Western European countries. The
declining population, exacerbated by a
high volume of emigration, appeared to
be a troublesome and permanent
hindrance to industrial advance.
Net emigration has at last fallen below
the natural increase in population and
by 1970 should be only about 10,000
a year. Industrial employment is rising
sharply, while agricultural employment
falls. Unemployment has been cut to
about 5i per cent of the total insured
population, from a level of around 8-9
per cent between 1953 and 1958.
Some general slackening seems to
have occurred so far in 1965. Most
significantly, exports are not so buoyant.
British and American Share Markets
JTRESIDENT JOHNSONS operation may
have produced a mild and temporary
retreat on Wall Street which, of course,
it has speedily reversed. Far more
significant in holding the market close
to its present high levels is likely to be
the President's (and his Administration's)
views on interest rates. Somewhat tighter
money seems the order of the day, yet
the Federal authorities still give every
evidence of remaining committed to a
basically cheap-money policy. With earlier
anxieties over inflation gradually vanish-
ing, and supported by slightly lower cost-
of-living statistics, Wall Street's prevailing
optimism can apparently continue for a
while yet.
Not surprisingly a new Dow Jones peak
was reached on Monday, October 11, and
the market last week promptly followed
this by three days of consolidation. To-
wards the end, however, share prices
tended to move higher again on moder-
ately active dealings. The usual bout of
profit-taking before the weekend did not
manifest itself.
Satisfactory prices have been sustained.
Among individual sections, steels showed
a series of fractional gains, motors were
variable, and electronics gave a few
signs of softness. Political events and
any increasing firmness in the Administra-
tion's attitude on overseas spending (as
referred to in the article above) could
impose a measure of dampening.
London has, in the meantime, overcome
many of its political hesitancies, especially
on Rhodesia. The rather brighter economic
outlook, and a safer pound, also brought
in some obvious Continental and Ameri-
can buying. Part of this is due, as well,
. to the better yields available on eguities.
With the domestic institutions in evidence
too, eguities made widely-spread gains to
move the index up 11 points on the week.
Rises are well divided among both blue
chips and second - liners. Engineering
shares, autos, electricals and aircrafts
have each improved. Retail stores took a
considerable kick, inspired initially by the
British Shoe Corporation's takeover bid for
the Lewis Investment Trust.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Some Company Problems
For “C” Day
Which is closer than you think
WITH less than four months to go to “C” Day, “it is later than you think”; the
indefatigable chairman of the Decimal Currency Board, Mr Walter Scott, warned
a Victorian Chamber of Manufactures symposium on the currency changeover last
week. Even so, he was a little surprised to find such a large number of organisations
other than banks, for which it is obligatory, to be changing over on February 14 and
almost equally surprised that so many are doing it before that appointed date. But
most will leave it until later and “changeover dates could, I suppose, take in most
days of the calendar”, he said.
Although Mr Scott assured us that all
the monetary programmes “are proceed-
ing nicely”, taxation matters are “well
under way” and the conversion of bank
machines is “proceeding”, the nearness
of “C” Day makes it hard to understand
why so many other vital matters con-
nected with the conversion have not
yet been finalised. Compensation arrange-
ments, for instance, have not been settled.
Mr Scott said there would be legislation
dealing with them “this coming session”.
Again, “statements on wages and payroll
matters will be forthcoming shortly”.
But the item most holding up planning
by firms is the Board’s failure so far to
bring out a zoning plan, “on which an-
nouncements will be made as soon as
possible, though not necessarily in the
immediate future,” the DCB chairman
said.
While not excusing the delay in this
important matter, Mr Scott said that firms
would be well advised to ignore the fact
that details of the zoning plan are not yet
finalised. He advised everybody to pro-
ceed without delay in planning for the
changeover, even if this means keeping
their arrangements on ice. Anyone who
is leaving planning because of the zoning
uncertainties is overlooking the fact that
all banking transactions have to be
covered for all sections of business
organisations by February 14.
He commended the idea for forming
decimal currency committees within
firms and said that a forthcoming publi-
cation of the Decimal Currency Board
would give a summary of the tasks which
might be undertaken by such committees.
Personally I would have thought such
a summary should have been made avail-
able by the Board before this, but better
late than never and in any case the idea
is already being implemented by most
big concerns.
One of the latter is Moulded Products,
whose finance director, Mr J. A. Mac-
Donald, said had formed its committee
in April this year. The committee had
already covered machine conversion and
new machine requirements and had
alerted top management to general re-
quirements and timing, including fore-
casting, factory budgeting and physical
inventory all with the idea of “taking
the load off the December, 1965 to
March, 1966, period.” This company
balances on December 31 and its sales
forecasts are usually scheduled for Sep-
tember. This year its sales forecasts were
advanced to the beginning of August and
computed in dollar currency. At the same
time, 1965 actual and budget sales have
also been converted into the new currency
to make statistical comparison easier.
Mr MacDonald posed a number of the
problems confronting his firm from the
changeover and doubtless most of thesa
will have to be faced by others, especially
those with high volume sales. One of
these has involved the company in a
result which seems to defeat the advan-
tage of handling a smaller number of
figures under decimal currency.
As he put it, “We are currently listing
our products by product groups with
existing £ s.d. prices included. We then
convert to the actual dollar/cent equiva-
lent and finally show the variation up or
down on the converted figure, using exact
equivalent conversions. This has caused
us a real problem, as in high volume
sales, e.g., 500,000 units, you cannot
readily convert to a whole cent basis and
we have in these instances recommended
that we sell at prices in these cases
to 4 points of a dollar.” The com-
pany regards this as the only realistic
solution. When it has reason to alter a
selling price it will work towards whole
cent prices. It will also give consideration
to altering the unit of measurement so
as to achieve a rounder price.
Picking another general point from
Mr MacDonald’s excellent rundown of
intricate problems involved in the change-
over for a big firm, there is the question
of quoting forward prices and, tied to
this, costing products to be released or
supplied after “C” Day. He said it was
vital to be doing this now in dual cur-
rency to save a great deal of duplication
of clerical effort later on, especially
around “C” Day when “you will also be
expecting to get little actual work out
of your more senior and productive
people as most of their capacities will be
expended on supervision”.
On the cost ledger accounting side, Mr
MacDonald recommended that because
very few —if any manufacturing
organisations will have completed De-
cember, 1965, figures much before “C”
Day, the sensible thing to do will be to
go straight into decimals in most aspects
at January 1, 1966. He stressed that, with
plants reopening in the middle of Janu-
ary and all the cleaning-up and closing-off
for auditing, it will possibly be past “C”
Day before any significant entries are
EXPORT ACTON
"The message reads: 'Platypus Products Sydney (stop) - See opening 2-way radio sales (stop) - Forward
demonstration models - Signed Acton'.”


NOW
IS THE TIME
TO DRINK AUSTRALIAN WHISKY
made for 1966. Because of this his com-
pany will make all cost ledger journal
entries from January 1 in dollars and
produce the trial balance in this currency.
This is one company which is turning
its back on the idea of converting its ss.
shares to dollar units. Its argument is
that it is possible for 10s. shares to be
quoted well above 205., which means that
to buy a parcel of 100 can involve a
fairly large sum of money, so limiting the
spread of the company’s scrip. It seems
that nobody here is enamored of the
idea of no par value shares such as they
have in other decimal currency countries
like the US and Canada. Think how
much more convenient (especially for
financial journalists) it would be to ex-
press all dividends and earnings in so
many cents per share. In Moulded Pro-
ducts’ case the intention is to declare
dividends as a percentage (as at present)
and round off the calculation to the
nearest whole cent.
Talking about financial statistics, it was
intriguing to learn from Mr MacDonald
that Moulded Products “keeps profit and
balance sheet ratio figures for the middle
top 50 companies in Australia, so that
we have a measuring stick on our per-
formance which can be compared; e.g.,
if average return on funds invested im-
proves 1 p.c. in a year, we should expect
to improve by at least that figure or
know good reasons why we have not.”
At least Moulded Products looks to be
well up with, if not ahead of, the field
in its preparations for decimal currency.
CROESUS
The Waiting Game in Shares
Melbourne more patient than Sydney
A T the apex of a fully employed economy the securities industry is down in the
dumps, pointing the bone at Government policies for their inhibiting effects on
share investment. On past experience of prolonged runs of high capital investment in
indvstry, stockbrokers could reasonably expect to be working overtime, not as they
are doing now, laying off staff and wondering who’s going to pay for the Christmas
turkey.
For this galling state of affairs the
Sydney Stock Exchange is perfectly cor-
rect in laying at least some of the blame
at the door of the fiscal and monetary
authorities. Up to a point the present lack
of investors’ confidence in shares is the
other side of the coin to the success the
authorities have had in maintaining rea-
sonable price stability and dampening
speculative tendencies in the economy.
In asking for a more sensitive approach
by the Government, the argument is
that the stock exchanges could do an
even more useful job than they have
been doing in raising capital if given a
freer monetary and fiscal climate in
which investors could move into shares
with more confidence than they have
been doing this year. More confidence
about what? The question has to be
asked. If the answer is simply confidence
about enhanced prospects of capital ap-
preciation, it could well be that such
assurances could only be gained at the
expense of sacrificing some of the fruits
of Government attempts to maintain price
stability.
The devil of these attempts in stock
exchange eyes is undoubtedly the bias
in Government policies which puts a
premium on raising capital by fixed
interest securities both for governments
and private enterprise. There is the bias
towards this in the tax concession writ-
ten into the 20/30 rule. The emphasis
of monetary policy on high interest rates
works the same way. At a time when
capital appreciation is the missing link
in equity capital raising, such policies
undoubtedly detract from share invest-
ment, where dividend yields have to
stand on their own thinnish legs as an
attraction to investors.
The rub for the securities industry is
that the long malaise in share markets
would not seem to have been much to
the prejudice of industry getting the capi-
tal to fertilise its activity in the last
few years. This suggests it is possibly
time for some rethinking about the use-
fulness of the stock exchange as a capi-
tal-marshalling institution, not that this
will necessarily be regarded as its main
function in the eyes of investors, even
if, nationally speaking, it is its main
justification.
There is, of course, no question that
its various functions go together or that
the interests of the exchange, the econ-
omy and investors are inter-related. This
is emphasised by R. B. Bond in his con-
cisely written little book “The Investor,
a Popular Guide to Stocks and Shares”,
recently published by Whitcombe and
Tombs, when he says, “It is now realised
that both the exchange and the national
economy need the confidence of invest-
ors, large and small, and those investors
need the various avenues of investment
available through the stock exchange to
protect the purchasing power of their
savings.” He sums up the reasons why
investors buy securities as being “to
secure their capital, gain income from
interest or dividends, gain capital ap-
preciation through new issues or improv-
ing share prices and to have their money
liquid”.
But what has happened here, especially
in the last fifteen years, is that invest-
ors have come to regard the stock ex-
changes mostly as markets where their
capital gains are registered and can, if
required, be realised in hard cash. Brok-
ers have told them persistently that in
the long run at least, if not in the short,
the risk has in effect been taken out of
share investment by the assured upward
trend in share prices underwritten by
the assured growth of the economy. All
an investor needs to do is put his money
down and wait. There may be storms
but they will pass, and investors must
ride them out.
If Sydneysiders seem to be getting a
bit impatient, Melbourne brokers were
tuning in last week with reassurances
that it was still just a question of play-
ing the waiting game. Taking the Sydney
index, one broker went to some lengths
to illustrate its impressive rise over every
ten-year period since the war. In two
ten-year periods ending in 1963 and
1964 it rose as much as 119 p.c.; its
smallest gain was 44 p.c. between 1948
and 1958.
From these figures he has projected


TEACHER REQUIRED FOR 1966
for
Newington College, Stanmore
(The Methodist G.P.S. in Sydney)
ENGLISH
Qualified to teach throughout the school
including Matriculation standard.
(Qualifications in History and/or Social Studies
an advantage.)
Sound salary scale and superannuation scheme.
For details write to the undersigned.
D. A. TRATHEN, Headmaster.
GENERAL CREDITS
* LIMITED
branch
ANY
A
B
C
THE
0
o
up to I=l 5-10 years
DEBENTURE STOCK
(SECOND SERIES)
Applications can only proceed on the form
enclosed with the Prospectus which may be
obtained from any recognized stockbroker,
or any branch of the Commercial Bank of
Aust. Ltd., and all branches of
GENERAL CREDITS
277 William St. Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
Underwriters:
6840 lan Potter & Co.
A. H. URQUHART
President, Australian Associated Stock Exchanges.
a series of minimum capital appreciation
performances for the five years 1970 to
1974. For example, by 1970 the index
would rise by 46 p.c. from its present
level. He reckons that, statistically, this
46 p.c. rise would be in line with the
long-term compound growth rate from
equities, and adds that to his capital
increase must be added the dividend yield
of better than 5 p.c. per annum cur-
rently available from both leader and
secondary stocks.
In days when price stability was more
important than full employment in
national policies, capital appreciation in
shares was pretty strictly governed by
genuine growth and special situations of
companies and not so much by the de-
preciation in the value of money and the
discounting of future growth prospects
as it has been in recent years. In those
days share prices tended to be fairly
closely related to dividend yields and only
rarely were dividend yields on good in-
dustrial shares lower than the yield on
long-term bonds. After the inflationary
bout of the 19505, dividend yields were
left well below long-term yields on bonds.
They still are, but, despite increases in
interest rates coupled with various tax
concessions which increase effective bond
yields, the gap has been narrowing.
Melbourne brokers, even those with
the strongest faith in the waiting game,
have recently been at pains to point out
that dividend yields are creeping up to
a level where they offer an attractive
challenge to fixed interest returns with-
out throwing anything in for capital ap-
preciation from equities.
Compared with their lowest dividend
yields in the last five years, current divi-
dend yields certainly show a remarkable
rise. In Rothmans’ case it is as much
as 180 p.c.; BHP’s increase is 120 p.c.
and so is H. C. Sleigh’s. The average
dividend yield on the 50 leading shares
index (Melbourne Stock Exchange)
moved up from 3.92 to 5.19 p.c. from
January, 1964, to October, 1965, a rise
of 32 p.c. In the same period the price
index of these shares fell 16 p.c.
One broker argues that, it being clear
that the yield on certain stocks is in the
range of that offered by fixed interest
securities, it should be borne in mind
in the present mildly inflationary econ-
omy that fixed interest stocks have no
defence against inflation, whereas equity
shares are usually regarded as an in-
flationary hedge.
Another Melbourne broker is also
looking to the technical strength of
equities for a further reason. Whereas, he
says, “in the boom years of the late
1950 s we had the vulnerable situation
of share prices rapidly outpacing the rise
in company profits, now the reverse has
taken place. Since the market peaked 15
months ago we have had two years of
buoyant company results.” Indeed, taking
the 533 companies reporting for 1964-
65 up to the end of last month, their
average earnings rate increased from
17.6 to 19.2 p.c. Four out of every five
earned higher profits, which in aggregate
rose by 17i p.c. About a quarter (23.7
p.c.) of them increased their dividends,
8.6 p.c. reduced them and in 67.7 p.c.
of cases dividends were unchanged.
In fact, company profits for 1963-64
and 1964-65 have shown strong gains
overall. The market, though, has taken
an opposite course. While the immediate
future, as always, is less predictable, there
is certainly justification for equity buy-
ing. The present abnormally heavy call
for new share capital with its temporary
depressing influence in the market creates
an ideal investment situation. In the
weeks ahead investors are going to have
opportunities which have not been avail-
able in many years. Significantly, too,
there is evidence that the returns and
potential offered by some of our leading
stocks are again being recognised over-
seas, as there are signs of renewed buy-
ing interest in the market despite Mr
A. B. Mellor’s gloomy predictions about
future overseas portfolio investment when
he returned from an overseas trip last
week.


An Industry in Jeopardy
Crayfishing fights lower production
QIORIES of great cray catches are heard no more, A £7 million a year industry
is now in jeopardy. Its boom years have passed. Back in the 1940 s crayfishermen
used to haul up as many as ten crays in each pot quite commonly. Now they barely
average one.
High catches and high prices created
a large and lucrative industry very
quickly after the last world war. Most
of the expansion took place in the west.
The off-shore waters, particularly be-
tween Perth and Geraldton, were found
to harbor possibly the world’s greatest
concentration of crays. Certainly it was
the most productive fishery of all around
the Australian continent. There the in-
dustry swelled to provide a good living
for more than 2000 fishermen, processors
and packers.
But nowadays, despite rising prices,
they are having to work much harder
to maintain their incomes. And prospects
for the future are rather bleak. If
present fishing practices prevail, the adult
cray population on this famous ground
must decline steadily. A scientific sur-
vey has revealed that 60 p.c. of the adults
in the fishery is now being caught each
season.
Australian production of crayfish
soared from half a million pounds in
1944 to 211 million pounds in 1963.
Last year it dropped to 18 million lbs;
this year it will be down at least 11
million lbs. Fortunately, for the time
being, the falling level of production
has not meant falling financial returns.
On the contrary, last year, for instance,
the value of Australian cray exports rose
to a record £7,057,000. This cash in-
come was nearly 25 p.c. up on the
previous year’s. Scarcity had stimulated
the market for this luxury seafood.
During August, the New York price for
Australian cray tails in the 6-16 oz.
range reached a breath-sucking $2.60
(£AI 3s. 4d.) a lb.
The Western Australian fishery con-
tributes more than three-quarters of the
total export income derived from cray
tails and more than half that obtained
from the sale of whole crays. The USA
is our main market and we are the second
largest supplier to the Americans, who
failed by more than 2 million lbs. to
satisfy their crayfish appetite last year.
Under these circumstances it is small
wonder that crays are prohibitively priced
in our local fish shops. And there is no
likelihood that local prices will ever fall.
For the first time, incidentally, the
export value of all Australia’s marine
products topped the £lO million mark
last year. As noted above, the crayfish
must be thanked for nearly three-quarters
of this sum. Most of the remainder came
from pearls, prawns and scallops, for
each of which there are good prospects
of increased, production and buoyant
markets. The Department of Trade and
Industry has recently stepped up overseas
promotion of our seafoods.
Steps have been taken, of course, to
remedy or at least halt further decline
in the productivity of the WA cray-
fishery. For some years it has been
necessary to have a boat licence. This
regulation restricts the number of would-
be fishermen, of whom, there are*too
many already. Moreover, each boat has
a licence to fish a certain number of pots.
The length of the fishing season is also
prescribed and there is a size limit on
individual crayfish. The penalties for
breaching any of these regulations have
been raised recently and the WA Mini-
ster for Fisheries, Mr MacKinnon, has
warned that policing will be much
stricter in future.
But a regulation which will probably
have the greatest influence on stabilising
the cray catch has just been proclaimed.
As from next New Year it will be man-
datory to have every pot fitted with an
“escape gap”. This provision will not
only protect the immature crays but also
increase efficiency by saving the fisher-
man time and effort in sorting out and
throwing back the small ones. Besides,
crays often shed their legs in fright on
being hauled out of the water. On being
returned to the sea they grow new legs
at their next moult, though energy spent
on this is that much less spent on
general growth. Many, too, are mortally
damaged while being handled and sorted;
others are taken by natural enemies such
as the octopus and groper while making
their way back to shelter on the sea floor.
The escape gaps will be neither difficult
nor costly to fit to existing pots.
CSIRO scientists are even hopeful
that eventually it may prove possible to
enlarge the catch. They think the crays
could actually be farmed and fattened.
Reefs, perhaps artificially constructed
from old car bodies dumped into the sea,
could be seeded with young crays. A
higher proportion of the juveniles might
then be reared ir the partially protected
ponds formed by the car bodies than
reach maturity under natural conditions.
It seems that, although each female pro-
duces 100,000 young, only about 30
survive. Flowever, before farming be-
comes feasible, it will be necessary to
learn something about the crayfish’s life-
cycle and natural behavior. At present,
virtually nothing is known about cray-
fish biology. Scientific studies have now
been started. The fishermen themselves
are co-operating with the scientists in
the collection of information.
The scientists urge, and fishermen are
beginning to understand, that the first
essential step is to stabilise the present
catch. This will at least allow steady,
incomes for fishermen, together with a
regular flow of fish to the processors.
The immediate programme depends on
an accurate determination of the cray-
fish population, leading to an estimate of
how many may be taken each year with-
out permanently lowering stocks.


INVEST IN ELECTRICITY
QUEENSLAND’S POWER
TO PROGRESS!
SUPPORT THE
STATE ELECTRICITY
COMMISSION OF QUEENSLAND
LOAN
£5.10.0%
For 10, IS or 20 years
£5.7.6%
For 7 years
AUSTRALIA’S HIGHEST
GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
INTEREST RATE
Queensland’s power to progress is important to Australia! Just as
the Northern State’s immense natural resources are vital to the
National economy, so, too, is the expanding electric power supply
that’s needed to process these assets. Your support for the Queensland
State Electricity Loan helps to assure the continued development
of an already far-reaching network of power. Subscribe today! . . .
through your Bank or Stockbroker, or direct to the State Electricity
Commission, 447 Gregory Terrace, Brisbane.
Interest is paid half-yearly. You may deposit
]O% now and pay the balance by 31\1\66.
Underwritten by A. C. Goode & Co.
S.E.C. 38/10


THE
autm
hOUghTON
IfAite &i/Jigu }idy
AND
STILL
THE
FINEST
MADE IN
WESTERN
AUSTRALIA
BY
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Turn and Turn About
The changing reserve price debate
QUITE suddenly seemingly unrelated events have brought a distinct change to the
reserve price issue. Opponents of the plan have good reason to be pleased, and
the supporters equal reason for apprehension. The referendum, agreed to by the
Government after bitter debate, will take place between November 5 and December 9,
the mailing of necessary documents starting on November 5.
The debate, interestingly enough, hardly
brought to light anything new. The cam-
paign by the Free Market committee for
weeks appeared to drag on and on over
the letter from the International Wool
Textile Organisation to the Australian
Wool Industry Conference and, as a tac-
tic, was wasted effort. The letter, as many
suspected from the beginning, was an
“all things to all men” device on the part
of the IWTO (clever fellows).
But Sir William Gunn’s debacle in
Maranoa has many of the uncommitted
growers wondering. This is of the utmost
importance, for the very good reason
that the referendum will be largely de-
cided by the vote of the uncommitted
growers the men who never take an
active part in organisational activities,
who concern themselves primarily with
growing wool, and who ;*re strong
numerically.
No one knows how strong they are,
but one can be quite certain that they
are far stronger in numbers than any
of the woolgrower organisations care to
admit.
There is any amount of evidence to
suggest that all woolgrower organisations
(whether for or against the reserve price)
paid their membership figures. We know
what the organisations say about the re-
serve price. We can readily forecast how
the organisation members will vote. Yet
no one knows how the non-member
grower will vote and it could be that he
does not know either.
This is not intended as a slight. The
non-member woolgrower is usually a
non-member because he works too hard
at his occupation. Invariably the non-
member grower looks for a lead.
Gunn’s crash in Maranoa is just the
sort of thing that is likely to lead the
non-member grower, the uncommitted
grower, into the “no” camp. Was not Sir
William Gunn the man who was supposed
to be getting the wool industry organ-
ised? Was not he going into Parliament to
be the big man after McEwen and to be
the spokesman for the wool industry?
Then how can you explain the stark fact
that this man gets flattened in a pre-
selection ballot to decide the next
Country Party candidate for Maranoa.
Probably no one can explain it, any
more than anyone can explain the
Country Party itself. McEwen and the
Canberra CP strength wanted Gunn,
apparently. He did say he was invited
to accept Maranoa.
But the local CP men did not want
Gunn. They put up a Mr James Cor-
bett and Gunn went down like one of
the opponents of the Jim Corbett of
prize-ring fame.
For the Country Party it is a time
of dogs baying at the moon. Everything,
everywhere, seems to be going wrong.
In Victoria, through an unnecessary
statement (politically) by the young
leader, Mr Moss, the Country Party
has lost the control it had over the
Bolte Government in the Legislative
Council. Mr Feltham, a veteran CP mem-
ber, resigned from the party and will
continue as an independent because *Mr
Moss made it appear that he (Feltham)
was prepared to give the party away to
accept the presidency of the Council prof-
fered by Premier Bolte. As in Maranoa,
the only real loser is the CP itself.
Gunn, despite what some of his critics
say, probably will not lose much sleep
over the rebuff. If he was that set on a
political career he would have tried to
go into politics a long time ago. There’s
no reason to doubt that he was asked to
stand for the Country Party. It would
be interesting to know whether it was
his, decision, or McEwen’s, that he go
on with it when an opponent appeared,
necessitating a pre-selection ballot. The
wise thing would have been for Gunn
to pull out and await a safer seat. Fie
went on and he lost. Whatever he does
now, he will be tagged as the man who
was going to do wonders and who
couldn’t even win pre-selection.
If Gunn does finally make Canberra
he will not come in with any bang.
Those Liberal members who feared
(probably with good reason) a Country
Party strengthened by Gunn will be
happy now. They may wonder what it
was all about. The big man turned out
to be just a bogey-man.
Rightly or wrongly the reserve price
plan has been called the Gunn plan. To
the uncommitted woolgrower this is
true. A slap in the face for Gunn is a
slap in the face for the reserve plan.
Gunn’s debacle will not influence the
man who has studied the plan, who has
kept himself informed, and who knows
how he will vote. But to repeat oneself,
it is absolutely certain that this man, be
he for or against the plan, is in the
minority. One does not pretend to know
everything about the wool industry. If
one begins with this premise it is a good
start.
Yet another happening in recent weeks
likely to carry weight with the uncom-
mitted grower was the attack, by Sir
Robert Menzies, on Wool Board member
Mr S. S. Nevile. The Prime Minister, in
an angry mood, perhaps over the Ver-
non Report, made a bitter attack on Mr
Nevile, who happened to repeat Sir Rob-
ert’s well-known, and well-worn, state-
ment in support of the reserve price
plan rejected by growers in the 1951
referendum.
This statement has been used dozens
of times by supporters of the present
plan. Everyone (close to the issue, that
is) knows about it. Everyone knows that
the Prime Minister has not committed
himself either way over the present plan.
That his wrath should fall on Mr Nevile
is a bit hard. Of all the people in the
debating that has been going on, Mr
Nevile has conducted himself with dig-


TOUR TO
IRELAND
1966
SAILING
On the P. & 0.-Orient line ship
S.S. “Oronsay” from Sydney on
20 February.
PORTS OF CALL
Manila, Hong Kong, Singapore,
Bombay, Aden and Port Said.
VISITING
Rome, Monaco, France,
Lourdes, London and the 32
Counties of Ireland.
FOR DETAILS CONTACT:
Tour Organiser and Director,
Maxwell Collins, Albert House,
Albert St., Brisbane, Q’ld.,
or
General Secretary,
Michael Phelan, 7 Heathwood St.,
Heathmont, Vic. 870-1914.
BOOK NOW
TEACHER
(1) MASTER-IN-CHARGE
WYVERN HOUSE
PREPARATORY SCHOOL
(approx. 200 boys)
NEWiNGTON COLLEGE,
STANMORE, N.S.W.
(The Methodist G.P.S. in Sydney)
required, to commence duties in January OR
May, 1966.
Status: Approximately headmaster (of a
preparatory school) directly responsible
to the Newington headmaster.
Applicants may apply for the position:
(a) Without Housemaster (resident) function
included.
(b) Including Housemaster function (flat
provided).
Details re desirable qualifications, salary,
superannuation scheme, etc., may be obtained
from the undersigned.
(2) HOUSEMASTER
at
WYVERN HOUSE PREPARATORY SCHOOL,
NEWINGTON COLLEGE, STANMORE, N.S.W.
required, to commence duties January OR
May, 1966.
An appointment will depend on whether
the appointee to the Master-in-Charge
position is or is not also appointed to the
Housemaster position.
(Number of boarders: approx. 50.)
r- Details re desirable qualifications, salary,
superannuation scheme, etc., may be obtained
from the undersigned.
D. A. TRATHEN,
Headmaster.
nity and restraint. The PM could have
picked a better mark.
Who knows? Perhaps the PM feels
he has been sold a pup, too. He might
have been looking forward to Sir Wil-
liam as a safe successor to Mr McEwen
and an insurance that the old guard
will continue even when he, Sir Robert,
finally calls it a day.
It is possible that we have all made
a mistake in believing that, after Mc-
Ewen, there is no one strong enough
to lead in the Country Party. It is a
mistake often made in business as well
as in politics. No one is indispensable
and things have a habit of going on.
In the House of Representatives de-
bate on the reserve price referendum
(and remember this was before the
Maranoa count was completed), there
was a rather interesting speech by the
CP member for Riverina, Mr Bill Arm-
strong. Mr Armstrong is also the VRC
official starter and one can only hope
that his instructions to jockeys are more
explicit than his speeches in the House.
The speech was difficult to follow, but
the gist appeared to be that the reserve
plan was not the Gunn plan at all and
that what Gunn thought, or did, did not
matter much because he was an “old
man”. At the time this was very strange
coming from a Country Party man; but,
as subsequent events have shown, not
so strange at all. Mr Armstrong was one
CP member who clearly did not regard
Sir William as any white hope for the
party. There must be others.
The purist will argue that these poli-
tical happenings have no bearing on the
reserve price issue at all. He would be
wrong although he would be right
if he argued that they should have no
bearing. Politics have been intertwined in
the reserve price plan ever since it was
mooted and that is fact.
The Australian Wool Industry Con-
ference itself is strongly influenced by
politics, and Country Party politics in
particular. Many of the delegates to the
Australian Wool Industry Conference —
regardless of whichever woolgrowing or-
ganisation they represent —are steeped in
politics and in their own districts are
powerful men politically. To the Country
Party they are what the trade union
and chamber of commerce forces are
to the Labor Party and the Liberal Party.
Of the 50 AWiC delegates there are at
least a dozen who are acknowledged
“king-makers”.
The uncommitted grower is not alto-
gether the deadhead that some of the
organisation boys think he is. A lot of
this political bias on the reserve price
plan will have got through to him. Gunn’s
crash, the PM’s rebuke, even the un-
happy Feltham episode in Victoria, will
have let him know that he is not the
only person who does not know what he
wants. He will be reminded of “better
the devil you know than the one you
dc not”.
The Prime Minister, by making it so
clear that his 1951 opinion has no bear-
ing on the 1965 reserve price plan, and
that he holds now that this is a matter
for woolgrowers alone to decide, has
inevitably strengthened the anti-reserve
price cause. It is a strange way to do it
and how on earth can a Government
not be directly concerned when at least
£5 million of taxpayers’ money is involv-
ed for wool promotion and research and
a bank of £5O million, provided by the
taxpayer, will be necessary every year to
underwrite the reserve price plan if it is
implemented.
It is all very well for the Government
to insist that it is convinced that wool-
growers have the right to hold a refer-
endum. What is the Government view
on the plan itself?
The Fairhall letter incident was
handled very well by Sir Robert Men-
zies. Mr Whitlam remarked that the
PM’s reply got Mr Fairhall off the hook.
Has the reply got the Prime Minister
himself on the hook? Before the refer-
endum actually takes place, it seems only
fair that the Prime Minister should state,
in clear terms, whether he, and his Gov-
ernment, is for the plan or against it.
He must have an opinion. Otherwise the
woolgrower, and the taxpayer, will be
forgiven for assuming that, as he sup-
ported the 1951 plan, and as he now
most definitely does not want his 1951
views to apply to the present plan, he
is against the present plan. That, for a
woolgrower who is undecided, will be
a pretty strong lead too.
The financing has been built around
an expectation of clips averaging 5.3
million bales and a return of £4OO mil-
lion. Unless this average is maintained,
the overall levy (for promotion and re-
search and the reserve price revolving
fund) cannot be kept below three per
cent. In 1967 the Government contribu-
tion to promotion and research at
present £2 for every £1 contributed by
growers is supposed to come back
to £1 for £l. If the clip, therefore, does
not average £4OO million after 1967, one
of two things must happen. The growers
must contribute more than three per cent
overall or the Government must con-
tinue the £2 or £1 contribution. Either
possibility is not encouraging from the
viewpoint of the plan’s supporters.
Although this matter will not come to
a head until 1967, in which year the pro-
motion levy will be reviewed whether
there is a reserve price plan or not, it is
reasonable to assume that a much lower
clip this year, due to drought, would
cause more misgivings amongst growers.
If we get nowhere near the 5.3 million
bales and a return of £4OO million this
season, many growers will ask how we
can be sure of getting it in 1967.


For the Connoisseur!
/indt
eman's
RESERVE BIN VINTAGE WINES
Lindeman’s Wines announce that they have available limited quantities
of Reserve Private Bin Wines selected for Connoisseurs from the very best
Vintages of Australia s finest vineyards. These wines may be ordered through
your usual supplier.
VINTAGE 1964 LINDEMAN’S RESERVE RIESLING BIN 2464
A crisp, delicate, fruity flavoured wine with a strong Hunter character, this
wine was made from Riesling grapes grown at Lindeman’s
Ben Ean” and “Sunshine” Vineyards, Hunter River Valley, N.S.W. It was
bottled at a very early age to retain the flavour and character of the
original grapes.
Awarded a SILVER MEDAL —1964 BRISBANE SHOW, IN THE OPEN HOCK CLASS
AJN x VIP'I I AGE.
VINTAGE 1962 LINDEMAN’S RESERVE CLARET BIN 2300
This wine was made from Red Hermitage grapes grown in the Hunter
River and Clare Valleys and at Coonawarra. It was matured in small
oak casks and bottled in August, 1963. It is a clean, light Claret with
a smooth round character and pleasant astringency on the palate, and may
be served with any meat dish or cheese.
No Wine in the Sky
Drought on domestic airlines
By CELLARMASTER
T WAS part of the system, the system of the Golden Jets, hurtling back to Sydney
from Adelaide after a particularly enervating day. I asked for a half bottle of
Golden Champagne. “I’m sorry, sir,” said the girl, “but this is just a Domestic Airline!”
She spoke in exclamation marks. I pointed out that a domestic champagne would be
fine. Sorry! Just a bottle of red then. Sorry! White? Sorry! Sorry! Sorry!
The truth slowly, like it so often does,
dawned. I was expected to have my
homogenised, wholesome, pre - packed,
quick-heated, plastic-plated food with-
out wine. Now the jets, with their
heavenly uplifts and thudding let-downs,
are splendid. But once I even had wine
served on a bus!
Wines are served free on some of the
longer runs by both TAA and Ansett-
ANA. Going over to Perth recently I
had a couple of glasses of a splendid red
until the hostess noticed my capacity
and I saw the bottle no more. I under-
stand that if you go to New Guinea you
get the same service, though this seems
a complicated way to get a drink. The
reasons for the absence on the shorter
runs is both the speed of the flight and
the general lack of storage space. Ansett-
ANA did provide wines some time ago,
but discontinued this when the faster
planes came on, saying there wasn’t a
great demand, anyway. Yet I am travel-
ling interstate almost every month now,
and alone could almost justify the service
single-throated.
Further investigation revealed what
some of the other international air-
lines are doing over Australia. To a
certain extent, the pattern is the same
for each of them, these airlines being
governed by lATA. (This association
once met in Sydney and I helped feed
them. It was quite a job.) They serve
wines complimentary to first-class passen-
gers, though the tourist-class pay, and
invariably these wines are of sound
standard. KLM features a French red
and white, a German Mosel, and a
French champagne which are selected by
a prominent wine-tasting committee. No
Australian wine is served, which is a pity
since they get through 7000 dozen a year.
Air India offers just French wine, and
appears to make more effort with the
food than the wine, menus being ex-
tensive.
Alitalia are a little more interested and
have the only wine list I saw. This
features, naturally enough, Italian wines
with heraldic emblems and explanation
of the types Soave Bertani, Frascati
Valle Vermiglia, Verdicchio Fazi Batt-
aglia, Rivera Rose, Valpolicella Bertani,
Chianti Brolio, Chianti Antinori, Barolo
Fontanafredda. In fact one is tempted
to fly with them to try some of these
wines; unhappily, they are not yet
allowed to fly the Sydney-Dubbo route!
Both BOAC and Pan-Am serve Aus-
tralian wine. BOAC has French wines as
well and finds them slightly more
popular, though there are many requests
for our product. One interesting point
is that the people leaving Australia tend
to request French wines, while those
coming back take Australian. I’m sure
there’s a moral there somewhere. Pan-
Am states that international airlines are
probably the biggest users of wines in
the world today, and that Pan-Am alone
is the biggest single individual buyer of
vintage wine far more so than any
hotel chain. Their wines basically come
from France and Germany where they
are selected by experts, but, with typical
American public relations, Pan-Am tries
to include the local wine-growing country
products if possible. They have a local
red and white at the moment which are
both Lindemans. These are popular,
especially, with overseas visitors.
Undoubtedly wines in general, and
Australian wines in particular, are ex-
tremely well promoted by Qantas.
Qantas policy is to select one typical
wine that represents consistent top qual-
ity and will suit the majority of the
passengers. The wines are chosen by
prominent wine judges on these counts.
At present the choices are: Chablis
Lindemans; Moselle Thomas Hardy;
Champagne Seppelts Great Western;
Burgundy Penfolds; Sweet Sherry
Penfolds and McWilliams; Dry Sherry—
Mildara; Brandy Mildara. The wines
are bottled under a Qantas label in con-
junction with the proprietary company,
with the story of the wine on the label.
The flight stewards are briefed by the
companies concerned and Qantas about
the wines, visit wineries, and among them
are several members of the prestigious
Wine Guild. Qantas are so keen to fea-
ture the local wines that they actually
transport them to various locations
along the route for replenishing their
aircraft. All this added up last year to
well over 100,000 bottles being served
in the air.
But this still doesn’t get me a half
bottle of champagne on interstate flights.
What about a gourmets’ special, a way
of using the slow planes that the air race
makes obsolescent? Even to hold beef-
steak and burgundy clubs’ meetings
aloft? Or even a wine-lovers’ series, the
Champagne Special to Melbourne, the
Riesling Private Bin to Adelaide, the
Muscat Royal Reserve to Canberra?
Mr Ansett, your dinners are a triumph
of the packagers’ and printers’ art. The
sugar is by Industrial Sugar Mills, the
biscuits by Arnott, the butter by York,
the cigarettes by Kent, the Decimal Cur-
rency Guide by Desmal, the Old English
Processed Cheese by Kraft.
And the wine is by Nobody.


this is no!
an original
BRAMBLES
(you see them everywhere)
The 8.1.5. sign on your construction site reflects
good judgment and the best approach to economical
site development.
This Brambles’ sign means that you have at your
call Australia’s widest range of equipment for hire
for crane work, steel erection, concrete pouring,
excavation, earth moving, site development, well
point de-watering and haulage.
Brambles Industrial Services will contract to do
the whole job for you or you can hire equipment
(with or without operators in some cases). Cranes
from 2-60 tons, shovels, backhoes, draglines, com-
pressors, drill rigs, dozers and tippers. Modern
up-to-the-minute equipment is available for your
job today. You can estimate your costs to the shilling,
for all 8.1.5. hire rates include servicing and repairs.
Call Brambles Industrial Services
and have expert advice free of
charge for all your requirements
without delay.
i**
BRAMBLES!
INDUSTRIAL SERVICES
CORNER OF DOWLING STREET & TODMAN AVENUE,
WATERLOO, N.S.W. TELEPHONE 663 0465
BIS.A
AGRISEARCH
Snoring Cattle
that snore are found only in
Australia and New Zealand. The
phenomenon is quite common in parts of
Gippsland, in Victoria, where 90 p.c.
of some herds are snorers. Possibly 5
p.c. of all cattle in Gippsland snore. They
are actually suffering from a disease
known to veterinarians as bovine nasal
granuloma and to farmers as snoring
disease. Apart from the fact that the
trouble has oeen named and described,
little more is known about it, although
it has been recognised for more than 40
years. Mr P. Carbonell, an assistant
lecturer at the recently re-established
veterinary science school at Melbourne
University, has, however, renewed in-
terest in the disease.
Writing in "Agros", the annual maga-
zine of the Melbourne University Agri-
cultural Students' Society, he says that,
although every possible drug has been
tried, none has been found to cure it.
He considers that, of the possible causes,
some form of hypersensitive reaction
analogous to hay fever in humans ap-
pears the most likely. But this view is
hard to reconcile with the fact that the
disease spreads slowly. On the other
hand, Mr Carbonell points out that there
is some indication of a hereditary pre-
disposition to the complaint. Dairy
cattle are far more prone to it than beef
cattle; among the dairy breeds Jerseys
are most susceptible.
The effect on milk production is not
easily assessed. Generally the disease
does not seem to cause affected animals
serious distress. Nevertheless, during
summer, when -it is usually at its worst
and the nose becomes completely
blocked, breathing is laborious for the
cattle. Consequently they may not graze
freely or spend as much time cud chew-
ing, so milk yield would be depressed.
Even a relatively small reduction of
yield at this time of the year could
amount to a considerable economic loss.
Occasionally, secondary infestations be-
come established and on spreading to
the brain bring about death. Besides,
farmers, not liking to have snoring
cattle, cull them early and this drain
makes it difficult to build up and main-
tain a herd of otherwise good animals.
“Agros”, 1965, incidentally, supplies
72 pages of enlightenment and entertain-
ment for just 3s. 6d. The effort of obtain-
ing a copy would be well repaid. Try
the editors, Ralph Moran and John
Angus, c/- School of Agriculture, Uni-
versity of Melbourne, Parkville, N 3.


CSBP & Farmers Ltd
(Registered in Western Australia, Ist February 1929)
WJM
The main business of the company which is jointly owned by
Cuming Smith and Company Limited
The British Petroleum Company of Australia Limited
Westraiian Farmers Superphosphates Limited
is the manufacture of superphosphate and compound fertilisers,
acids, and agricultural chemicals at works at Bassendean, North
Fremantle, Geraldton and Bunbury, with new works being built at
Kwinana, Western Australia.
ISSUE OF
£3,000,000, DEBENTURES
PAR (£100)
Seven years
1
4
Ten years
1
2
Twelve
and fifteen years
TRUSTEE: The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Limited
HOW TO APPLY
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to in and attached to a printed copy of the prospectus.
Prospectuses and application forms may be obtained from, and
completed applications lodged either direct with any branch of the:-
BANKER for the Issue: The English Scottish and Australian Bank
Limited,
or through
Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange in Australia.
UNDERWRITERS
J. B. Were & Son
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
8311
INVESTMENT
An Objective Reorganisation
Bowling companies must face reality
A t least the optimistic outlook adopted
by indoor bowling companies has
finally been dropped by one realistic
group, Indoor Bowling Australia. Facing
things objectively, the chairman, Mr
D. M. Ferguson, told shareholders at the
annual meeting that 1965-66 would not
be a good year. Being frank but cautious,
he declined to make any forecasts ex-
cept that the company would survive,
This approach is to be applauded. For
five years now, bowling groups have
told shareholders of the optimism direc-
tors hold for the future, but the share
market is still waiting for their optimism
to be justified.
Indoor Bowling’s attempts to face its
problems more squarely have gone far
deeper than Mr Ferguson’s words indi-
cate. Two overseas consultants have been
examining the group and their report is
currently being put into effect. After
lengthy negotiations, the group’s fixed
interest commitments have been re-finan-
ced on what appears to be a satisfactory
basis. A £250,000 loan has enabled mort-
gage loans to be repaid and freehold land
and buildings at Box Hill to be purchased
at their original cost of £165,000. The
loan is repayable over five years.
Although it may be a little bold to
say the group has been re-financed on a
satisfactory basis, it is definitely true that
the arrangements now operating are more
satisfactory than the old. Next June the
interest bill will be reduced by £30,000
following the conversion of unsecured
notes into shares. This will have a very
beneficial effect on performance, al-
though its value will be largely eclipsed
by the addition made to capital. Only
time will tell.
Meanwhile there has apparently been
a small growth in business so far in the
current year. While this may not be par-
ticularly encouraging, at least it indicates
that the sport is not going downhill, just
the companies who operate it. Ration-
alisation seems inevitable in the future
if the industry is ever going to earn de-
cent returns on the capital invested. If
such proves to be the case (and the early
signs are already in evidence), it is the
groups like Indoor Bowling which have
the best chance of coming out on top.
Objective reorganisation of finances, es-
pecially loan moneys is becoming a
necessity which most companies will be
unable to put off for very much longer
without running into dire consequences.
Snow Blindness
T>equest for a receiver by Kosciusko
Chalet Ltd, the operator of The
Chalet at Charlotte’s Pass, Kosciusko,
and the chairlift from the Alpine Way,
will dampen the investment ardor of
those blinded by the dazzle of snow to
the economic potential of the area.
The major economic burden on
profitability and capital resources was
the chairlift which was sited in an area
greatly influenced by winds.
The company lost £10,812 to Decem-
ber, 1963, £171,725 in the fourteen
months to February, 1965, £73,563 in
four months to June, a total over £Jm.
with additional unspecified losses to
September.
Other companies involved in Kosciusko
Chalet’s difficulties are Finance Corpora-
tion of Australia Ltd, Broken Hill Hold-


Four Square
original MIXTURE
An aromatic blend of fine Virginia
The Four
Square
colour
scheme
of things
We call it blue, this Oriental and Virginia
mixture of utter contentment —you’ll
pronounce it excellent. You can’t measure the
coolness, the aroma, the deep, deep flavour—
-you just enjoy it. Try a vacuum-sealed tin
and see for yourself. Four Square Blue.
One of seven great tobaccos.
8/4 for the 2 ounce tin.
V. 1881
Invest in
OGB
%
INTEREST
UP TO
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
AND UNSECURED NOTES
Applications for Debentures and Notes only accepted on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from:
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch.
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
AGC House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
ASK THE 'WALES' FOR DETAILS
MDI4.N.
ings Ltd, Sabemo Pty and Electric Power
Transmission Pty.
FCA converted £200,000 of losses to
Kosciusko Chalet into 7i p.c. preferred
ordinary shares, and reduced the interest
rate from 12 to 7 p.c. on the remaining
£275,000 of its advances. It also assum-
ed managerial control in 1964-65.
Broken Hill Holdings has £75,000 in
Kosciusko’s ordinary and £50,000 in pre-
ferred ordinary capital. Sabemo and
EPT, once Kosciusko's largest creditors,
accepted settlement' of their accounts
half in cash and half in preferred ordin-
ary shares.
Both FCA and Broken Hill have made
provisions in their accounts against pos-
sible losses in The Chalet investment.
Symonds’ Losses Halt
I>alph Symonds Ltd is almost back to
** break-even point, directors reported
when they announced a trading loss of
£115,000 for the last-year to June 30.
When receivers were appointed in
February. 1964. the rate of trading loss
was £400,000 a year.
Steps taken to correct the position
were arrangements for relief from cer-
tain onerous contracts, increased selling
prices for certain basic products, increas-
ed yield from each log, and economies
in overall production.
This plywood manufacturer lost
£195,957 in 1962-63 and by December,
1963, was unable to meet interest pay-
ments on £750,000 worth of debentures
(redeemable £250,000 in 1965, £lO,OOO
in 1967, £125,000 in 1968 and £365,000
in 1972) which had been issued only in
the previous trading period.
The year 1963-64 brought a trading
loss of £719.593 and asset write-downs
of £847,000.
So, counting the latest deficit, share-
holders’ funds have been denuded from
£2,449,114 in June, 1962 to £568,000 in
three years.
Cresco’s Anti-climax
takeover offer for Adelaide-based
"*• Crescc Fertilizers was certainly
something of an anti-climax for share-
holders. After two weeks of suspension
and speculation on the implications of
the “don’t sell” warning issued by direc-
tors on Septembei 29, it turns out that
the offer is only for 30 p.c. of their hold-
ings. Nevertheless, it is a generous one,
comprising 70s. for the ords and 60s.
for the prefs.
Before the directors’ warning the
shares were fetching 525. The market
took them tc a peak 70s. two days be-
fore the takeover announcement and


GMAC
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN U.S.A. LIMITED LIABILITY)
UNSECURED NOTES
to
J/
/o
0
&
TWO
YEARS
0/
/o
GO
><
GO
lo
7
/O
TWELVE
YEARS
SHORT TERM
30-89 DAYS 5%
90-179 DAYS 5 1 /a%
180-269 DAYS 5 3 A%
270-360 DAYS 53/4%
ONE YEAR 6%
TWO YEARS 6 1 / 4 %
MEDIUM TERM
THREE YEARS 6 1 /a%
SIX YEARS 7%
LONG TERM
NINE YEARS 7V4%
TWELVE YEARS 7 1 / 2 %
HOW TO APPLY
For your copy of the Prospectus and Application Form contact:
Members of the Stock Exchanges
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra
Applications will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to in and at-
tached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
they eased back 2s. on the day before.
The accuracy of the speculators' bids
would suggest they were well-informed
rather than wild-catters.
W. R. Grace Australia Pty Ltd, local
offshoot of the large US chemical manu-
facturing and industrial group, intends
to acquire 50.1 p.c. of the capital in all.
The difference between this and what it
acquires from shareholders will be made
up by an allotment of shares, probably
about 400,000. The offer is conditional
upon this allotment. Grace will take up
to 60 p.c. of any individual holding but
no more than 30 p.c. of the present
capital. This provision appears to have
been designed to offset the effect of any
shareholder who decides to sell less than
30 p.c. of his holding,
The inclusion of a share allotment in
the deal, though robbing shareholders
of capital gains, will provide cash for
expansion. Cresco will be offered a 20
p.c. interest in a fertiliser venture in
Queensland already arranged between
Grace and Mt Morgan. The new com-
pany will produce ammonia, phosphoric
acid and mixed fertilisers at Gladstone,
Strong already in the southern States,
this will give Cresco a stake in Queens-
land and the production of nitrogenous
fertilisers.
The takeover will provide other bene-
fits for Cresco and hence shareholders.
Technical and distribution skills should
be enhanced. The continual battle to pro-
duce improved and more concentrated
fertilisers will be made a little easier. So,
although the deal is perhaps a little dis-j
appointing to shareholders at present, it
will actually provide a strong shot in the
arm for their company. In addition, the
possibility of complete takeover will
always be in existence and the bull point
on the share market.
Gloom over Goodwins
§
After returning Is. 6d. a ss. share,
Goodwins Ltd, Sydney electrical
appliance retailer, will not hesitate to go
into voluntary liquidation, if no alter-
native business can be found. In this
case they expect to preserve the equity
of about 3s. 6d. a share, directors said
in their preliminary report.
They announced a reversal of the trad-
ing position from the £212,961 loss in
1964 to a profit of £52,535 in the year
to June, 1965.
Retailing produced a loss, but main-
tenance contracts and the financing of
hire-purchase sales mainly accounted for
the climb out of the red.
Directors expressed their opinion that
the market estimation of the value of
the stock (at Is. 2d.) was unduly pes-
simistic. ,
The market cannot easily forget the]
bad debts of £393,748 (of which
£258,748 was charged against 1963-64
trading, the rest against the provision)
which resulted in 1964’s huge trading
loss. This loss was, after all, about as
much as it had earned in the three pre-
ceding years put together.
A Bird in the Hand . . .
'C'lectrical transformer maker Tyree
Industries Ltd has established a new
dividend policy. No cash dividend is to
be paid in respect of the year to June 30,
but it is to make a one-for-five bonus
issue, which is tax-free in shareholders’
hands.
The withholding of funds will allow
Tyree to finance additional plant and
stock from within. Directors stated: “If
... it appears that this is the best way
for shareholders to participate in the
expansion and capital growth of the


FROM
OCTOBER 31:
CANADIAN PACIFIC FLIES
A 3rd ROUTE TO EUROPE!
NOW! TWICE-WEEKLY DC-8
JET SERVICES-MONTREAL
TO AMSTERDAM!
Canadian Pacific opens a third route to Europe! Now, there are Super DC-8 services
from Vancouver, Canada’s gateway to North America, via the Polar Route to Europe!
You can fly DC-8 to Lisbon and Madrid from Montreal. And now, Canadian Pacific
introduces a third route, from Montreal to Amsterdam. There are two new Super DC-8
services weekly! Want more details? Then call your travel agent.
Offices: Sydney, Melbourne, and around the world. Contact Ansett-ANA (General Sales
Agents) or your travel agent. Air cargo carried on all flights.
AIRLINES
Incorporated in Canada, liability of members limited. Planes/Trains/Ships/Trucks/
Hotels/Telecommunications. World’s most complete transportation system.
mi
L-.
company, this policy will be continued
in future years.”
If the company satisfied its dividend
obligations in this way for very long,
the policy would be reductio ad
absurdum.
Profit for the year to June rose £15,405
to £106,923, and sales were a record.
Payment of dividends in two instalments,
as most Australian firms do, would not
put such a strain on liquidity at any one
time.
Only seven months ago directors
advised that they expected to propose
continuartce of the 12£ p.c. dividend
which was paid for the previous three
years in a single annual payment.
In October, 1964, the company made
a one-for-five bonus which ranked for
the full 1964 dividend involving £41,250.
This and the current issue are made from
premiums on placements during 1962
and 1963.
As far as shareholders are concerned,
the principle of bonus issues is to in-
crease their income immediately, and the
market value of their shareholding
eventually. If they are deprived of their
income, however temporarily, the bonus-
enlarged shareholding is unlikely to hold
its value.
Mount Isa Mines Ltd employed the
technique of bonus shares in lieu of cash
dividends over the long period of mine
development, but for an industrial com-
pany there is little justification for this
technique. It may be acceptable for one
year of heavy capital expenditure, but it
would be dangerous to make a habit of
this system.
If Tyree is to retain market confidence,
directors must make a firm statement
(and adhere to it) of their intentions for
future cash dividends. Otherwise the
bonus is illusory.
Need Activates Actil
British Government’s moves to re-
-*■ strict capital exports are activating
Australian Cotton Textile Industries Ltd
to seek Australian financial participation.
Makers of the Actil range of man-
chester, the company supplies one-third
of the Australian market. The main
plant is near Adelaide.
Rising Sands
TTot on the heels of its two-for-five
premium share issue announcement
comes Western Titanium’s news of an
almost doubled working profit in the
first half of the current year to January
31 next. Working profit rose from
£99,000 to £182,000. Before net profit
can be calculated, deductions must be
made for tax, depreciation and other
appropriations.
These deductions have not been made
for the present as they could prove mis-
leading once the year end result is avail-
able. Directors point out that the year’s
depreciation will probably be substan-
tially higher than in the past. However,
tax deductions which this and other
items may enable cannot be calculated
yet. It is possible that they may eliminate
the need for a taxation provision alto-
gether.
The main causes of the better result
were higher mineral prices (particularly
for ilmenite) and cost savings following
the operation of the bulk terminal at
Bunbury (WA). These two items were
actually much more important than one
tends to realise at first. But, comparing
the small rise in sales from £354,000 to
£400,000 with the substantially greater
profit rise, it can be seen that they played
a vital role.
Current trading looks just as bright.
The forward order position for ilmenite
remains satisfactory. New contracts re-
cently signed cover the sale of all zircon
production to the end of 1969 and mona-
zite to the end of 1967. With rising pro-
fits continually on the books, the group
may see fit to maintain last year’s
doubled 15 p.c. dividend on capital after
the new issue.


LIMITED
Annual Meeting of Shareholders, 18th Oct., 1965
Address of the Chairman and Managing Director, Mr. John R. Walton
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The net profit for the year of £1,400,197 is the
second highest in the Company’s history and rep-
resents an earning rate of 20 per cent on Ordinary
Capital.
Profits would have been higher if the Board had
chosen not to absorb the entire Victorian pre-open-
ing and establishment expenses in this one year.
These expenses were considerable and our overall
profit was reduced as a result.
Nevertheless, £1,400,197 is a satisfactory profit
figure and maintains the Company’s profit history.
In more than 30 years this Company has never had
a bad year.
The whole history of the Company is one of con-
stant progress. The profit of New South Wales this
year was more than four times that of six years
previously. Queensland in the same period has
increased just short of three times. It can be
expected that the same kind of progress and success
will attend the efforts of the Company in Victoria.
Sales of the 12 stores launched as Waltons in
Melbourne in this past year, including the new
Bourke Street city department store, are comparable
with those of similar size in Sydney.
While new stores add to sales immediately, it can
be a year or so before they contribute significantly
to profits. In New South Wales and Queensland
the Company operates profitably in every single
location, whether city, suburban or country town.
There is no reason why the same methods and
application will not provide the same profitable
results in Victoria.
A break-even result alone in that State would
provide an appreciable increase in profits of the
Group for the current year. Trading to date in
Victoria indicates that this will be achieved.
Borrowing Programme
The Group’s borrowing programme continues to
meet with success, indicating public confidence in
the fixed interest issues of Waltons Credit Corpora-
tion Limited. An amount of £5,301,657 was raised
in debentures and notes in the past financial year.
The current issues of the Credit Corporation,
which opened for subscriptions on 30th August,
1965, together with other applications, have pro-
vided the Company with more than £1,300,000 of
new money.
These issues, combined with renewals of maturing
borrowings, place the Company in a satisfactory
position to finance anticipated increases in volume
of business this year. Borrowings are used solely
to finance customers’ accounts.
Maturity dates of public borrowings of the Group
are well spread year by year over the next ten years.
On the other hand, current customers’ accounts are
on a basis that the total amount of the public
borrowings will be collected in less than two years.
Maturities of borrowings during the current year
total £5.7 million. This amount is covered more
than five times by budgeted cash collections on instal-
ment accounts during the year.
Customers’ Accounts
This year we announced details of amounts
charged against profit for bad debts. We did this
not because of any abnormality but because of a
succession of disclosures by other companies which
have failed in past years to recognise and write off
bad debts as incurred.
This Company has always regarded bad debts as
a normal expense of trading. They have been written
off regularly on a rigid, conservative basis. Further-
more, ample provisions exist to take care of any
possible losses on existing business or losses due to
unexpected circumstances.
I can assure you that this Company’s 39 years
of experience in financing customers’ accounts has
taught us not to underestimate the task involved in
credit approval and collection of accounts.
More than 2,000 people are employed in the
control of credit. They are completely independent
of the retail stores. The average period of service
of the top 51 credit executives including all managers
of the 41 credit units exceeds 18 years with this
Company.
A vital factor in both credit approval and collec-
tion is the field force of more than 600 traveller-
collectors. A great proportion of these are of long
experience in the Company, and they are closely
supervised both in their territories and in the credit
units.
No other company in this field in Australia has
such wealth of skill and experience.
Profit Sharing
The staff “Profit Sharing” Fund continues to be
a potent factor in the success of the Company. It is
of interest that in the past year staff members
contributed £110,499 from their earnings to the
Fund. This amount, together with the Company
contribution, has been invested in the shares and
convertible notes of the Company. Today Profit
Sharing employees own more than 2\ million shares
or convertible notes and so are joined with share-
holders in a common interest in the future welfare
of the Company.
We have a splendid organisation which has proved
its ability to make good profits through all kinds
of economic conditions. The overall situation of the
Company has never been sounder.
W/48


SECURITY ANALYSIS
A Recent Move into Appliances
Malleys' earning rate under pressure
Although the original business of Mal-
leys Ltd was founded some one
hundred and thirty years ago, it is prob-
ably one of the most recent entrants into
the field of “white goods” manufacture.
The original agreement with Whirlpool
Corporation of the USA dates back to
1954, but it was not until July, 1960,
that the range of products was extended
to include appliances in addition to wash-
ing machines. About this time Malleys
had acquired United Metal Industries
and, twelve to eighteen months earlier,
the capital of Colda Home Appliances
had been acquired. It now seems likely
that these two acquisitions set the stage
for the entry of Whirlpool into the
Australian market in a big way.
What has this done to Malleys? First,
ordinary capital has been expanded quite
considerably. During 1953-54, the aver-
age ordinary capital was under £750,000.
Today the ordinary capital is £2,148,198
nearly three times the 1954 capital
and Whirlpool holds 25 p.c. of it, 537,049
ordinary 20s. shares. The issues to Whirl-
pool have been made at varying pre-
miums; today the share premium reserve
stands at £331,770. There has not been
any great increase in fixed interest bor-
rowings over the last four years. Even
taking short-term notes and loans into
account, the increase to June 30, 1965,
from June 30, 1961, has only been
£764,000 approximately. Admittedly, a
further £500,000 of debentures has been
raised since; it is perhaps reasonable to
assume that a substantial part of this
amount will be used to reduce the short-
term borrowings, as will the issue of
shares to Whirlpool which will raise
nearly £251,000.
The price paid for this new debenture
issue seems rather high, for not only has
the company had to offer the quite high
rate of 8 p.c. for twelve years but it has
also had to issue £770,000 of debentures
to its bankers as security for overdraft.
Bearing in mind that even after these
issues the secured borrowings will be
covered more than four times by tan-
gible assets and net profit before tax
and interest would seem to be sufficient
to cover the total interest charge about
five times, one would have thought that
rather more attractive terms could have
been arranged. However, there is no
denying that fixed interest raisings have
become rather more difficult as the year
(1965) progresses.
The initial result of the extension of
the agreement, so far as the profits of
Malleys were concerned, was a very
marked fall in the 1960-61 year. This
drop cannot, however, be attributed to
the agreement but rather to the "condi-
tions of the time, which affected a num-
ber of durable consumer products manu-
facturers even the earning rate of the
remarkable Kelvinator dipped slightly
during this period. In the last two years
the Malleys earning rate has returned
nearly to the level of the years 1955-56
to 1959-60 inclusive. So far as earnings
are concerned, 1959-60 seems to have
been the best year, when the rate was
20 p.c. almost exactly. If the ratio of
net profit before tax and depreciation
to total capital is examined, it seems
likely that 1963-64 was the best year:
Year to June 30 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Net profit before
tax and
depreciation
as percentage of
total capital 19.1 8.2 12.3 8.6 19.6 19.3
Tt is worth pointing out that the depreci-
ation provision seems rather high
in relation to the balance sheet figure
for plant at cost or valuation. Unfor-
tunately, the calculation can only be
made for the last two years; in 1963-64
the percentage was 12! p.c. approxi-
mately, and in 1964-65 12i p.c. The
corresponding figures for Kelvinator ap-
peared to be 11.9 p.c. in both years. The
suspicion that the depreciation provision
may be rather higher than that allowed
as a deduction by the Tax Commissioner
is borne out to some extent by the fact
that the tax provision in the last two
years seems to be rather higher than
would be obtained by applying company
tax rates to the disclosed figure for net
profit before tax. If a rough adjustment
is made for this factor the earning rate
would be slightly higher than shown in
the summaries at the end of this article.
The 1965 balance sheet produces
changes in two items which seem to be
of some substance. The substantial in-
crease in stock has been explained in the
chairman’s address and the increase was
of the order of £l.l million. The other
item which rose very substantially was
current liabilities excluding all pro-
visions. In this instance, I refer to the
total of the following items: registered
unsecured notes, unsecured loans, bank
overdraft, trade and other creditors,
which amounted to just under £1 mil-
lion in 1964 but which exceeded £2.7
million in 1965. Even allowing for the
reduction that will take place with the
subscription of £750,000 to debentures
and shares since the balance date, there
has been a substantial increase as a re-
suit of the increase in stock. The posi-
tion is further highlighted in Note 2 to
the published accounts, which shows that
the liabilities payable by Malleys and
subsidiaries exceeded debts payable to
Malleys and subsidiaries by nearly £2.3
million. Clearly a manufacturing com-
pany would not be expected to have
debts due to it which would more than
cover all its liabilities and no doubt the
secured creditors would look to the com-
pany's freehold for their security. But it
seems likely that the unsecured creditors
must depend to some extent on the
realisation of the £3 million of stock.
At this stage it is quite impossible to
make any predictions regarding the
trends in demand for household appli-
ances during 1965-66. There is no rea-
son to believe that there will be any
significant change from 1964-65. In fact,
the chairman of Malleys has stated that
turnover was at record levels during the
two months ended August 31, 1965.
Nevertheless, in order to maintain the
earning rate at the level of the last two
years, it seems to me that it will be
necessary for net profit before tax and
interest to increase by about 16 p.c. dur-
ing 1965-66 as compared with the in-
crease of just under 4 p.c. which took
place from 1963-64 to 1964-65.
During 1965, the price of the ordinary
shares in Malleys has ranged from 38s.
6d. down to 30s. At the lower price, the
dividend yield from a quite well covered
10 p.c. dividend would be 6.7 p.c. This
is almost double the return which would
be received from Kelvinator’s shares, but
then Kelvinator’s record is rather
superior.
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (£'000)
Year to June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 2730 2874 3049 3260 4480
Current liabilities 995 853 1043 1435 3165
Net working capital 1735 2021 2006 1825 1315
Land and buildings 1097 1160 1285 1378 2564
Plant 1125 1094 1150 1243 1586
Investments — — — 127 186
Total capital _ „
employed 3957 4275 4441 4573 5651
Represented by: —. _ ■
Loan capital 1118 1291 1152 1018 1080
Long-term provisions 96 102 84 106 119
Preference capital 30 30 30 30 30
Ordinary capital 1611 1611 1820 1887 1975
Reserves 1102 1241 1355 1532 2447
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES (£'000)
Interest on fixed loans n.a. 84 92 82 97
Depreciation 180 199 163 244 246
Tax 7 65 76 276 272
Preference dividend 3 3 3 3 3
Earnings 12 220 126* 347 360
Ordinary dividend 72 97 130 185 191
Surplus 160) 123 (4) 162 175
Earning rate p.c. 0.8 13.6 7.8 18.8 18.8
Dividend rate p.c. 5.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 10.0
Dividend yield p.c. (a) 4.5 5.2 6.0 5.4 6.0
High price (b) 38/3 25/- 30/6 39/9 38/6
Low price (b) 20/6 19/6 22/6 28/3 30/—
(a) Based on last sale October when accounts pre-
sented.
(b) Calendar year.


i
f
u'm
(D
FUJI ELECTRIC
SYMBOL OF BETTER LIVING
THERE'S NO SUBSTITUTE
For what??
For EXPERIENCE—in the design and
construction of dependable modern
electric power systems.
And that’s why FUJI ELECTRIC shines
—we’ve polished our engineering know-
ledge, manufacturing techniques and
construction methods in the crucible of
experience—for more than half-a-centu-
ry. That’s why Fuji can give you the
electric power system that you need
the electric power system that assures
steady and sustained social and in-
dustrial development.
For the power that spells PROGRESS,
consult FUJI Electric, Japan's leader
in atomic energy and integrated manu-
facturer of electrical systems, equip-
ment and components. From drawing
board to dynamo, from turbine to trans-
mission line, let Fuji's experience work
for you.
FUJI ELECTRIC CO.LTD. {FUJI DENKI SEIZO K.K.) Head Office: Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan Cable: DENKIFUJI TOKYO


Invest in
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
DEBENTURE STOCK
(SECOND SERIES)
2
FOR 5 YEARS
A.N.Z. or I.A.C.
How to apply Applications will be
accepted only on the printed forms attached to the Prospectus.
Your copy available from all Members of Stock Exchanges, all
Branches of the A.N.Z. Bank and I.A.C.
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER & CO.
8880
BEHING THE BALANCE SHEETS
Solid, Staid and Respectable
London Stores' sound planning
Melbourne-based London Stores Ltd
is set for one of its best years ever
in the current 12 months to February
28, 1966. For the first six months to
August 31, directors have already re-
ported an increase in both sales and profit
over the previous corresponding period.
Trading in the current second half will
benefit from the first real expansion
which the group has undertaken for some
time.
On September 24 last a new store was
opened at Geelong. And in November
another will open in busy Burke Road,
Camberwell, a Melbourne suburb. These
two should provide a substantial boost
to year-end profits as they will be open
for the busiest season of the year,
Christmas. In 1966-67 they should bring
another boost to the group’s result
through their operation for a full 12
months.
For many retail groups the opening of
two new stores would not seem a particu-
larly momentous occasion. But for
London Stores it means a 66 p.c. lift in
its number of outlets. For years it
operated with only two stores, one in
the city and another at Prahran, an inner
suburb. A third store was added about
(four years ago at Dandenong. The two
new stores will give it five outlets in all,
three in established but expanding areas.
Through these outlets the group
operates as a retailer of men’s clothing,
mercery and general outfitting. The
company was registered in 1911. Like
the type of stores it runs, the shares have
provided a staid and solid investment
ever since.
This very sound basis on which
activities are run has probably been one
of the main reasons why the. company
has not expanded at a faster rate. In
fact, it is doubtful if expansion would
have been undertaken at all, had it not
been born of necessity caused by the
drift of trading from the city and inner
suburbs to outer areas. The expansion
which has come is of the best type, well
planned and taken slowly. The move to
Geelong was probably one of the best
examples of this. It was preceded by
two lots of lengthy takeover discussions
and the considerations of alternative sites
at Sunshine, Shepparton, Niddrie, Bal-
larat and Colac. All were deemed un-
worthy and, after a long wait, the chosen
site in Geelong was snapped up.
With all this planning, it is a fairly
safe bet that the new stores will be as
successful as the Dandenong one. Last
year, after three years of operation,
extensions were made there. They were
small, yet indicated that the business
was growing. The city store, of course,
struggles along from year to year. Profits
have been maintained generally from
year to .year and the store’s excellent site,
the tight control under which it is run,
and the continual prospect of a bid for
the property by another retailer or some
big insurance company, all ensure that
it will never become a liability to the
rest of the group. The profitable dol-
drums in which the Prahran store has
dwelt for the past few years may be
given a shot in the arm soon, on com-
pletion of a nearby Housing Commission
project.
All these developments augur well for
the ss. shares. They are currently selling
at 6s. 6d. and yielding an attractive 6i
p.c. from the dividend after brokerage.
As the accompanying table shows, the
price is by far the lowest in the group’s
recent history. More than anything, it
reflects the lack of any issue potential
at present. A one-for-one bonus was
made in 1963-64 and, on fully ranking
capital in the latest 1964-65 year, the
record profit was equal to only 12.4 p.c.
Dividend was 81 p.c., the rate predicted
by directors when the bonus issue was
made.
Another issue cannot be expected for
some time. To find the one before 1963-


Pick; a pouch, Gj
AMPHORA
m,
genti
LIKE AN
EXTRA MILD TOBACCO?
Then ask for Amphora
in the Brown Pouch
V -
PREFER A
MILD AROMATIC?
Then try Amphora Aromatic
in the Blue Pouch
■
r i
m wmlmMMSm le.
m
si i
FOR A
FULL AROMATIC! SAI7S
Choose Amphora Full Aromatic
in the Red Pouch
AMPHORA
There’s a choice of
three fine Amphora pipe
tobaccos ail cool
smoking —so there is
one to suit you. Amphora
is an imported tobacco!
pt
v 2 o?y
A PRQ33CT OF DOUWI EGBERTS ROYAL FACTORIES, UTRECHT, HOLLAND
64, it is necessary to go back as far as
1950-51 when a one-for-two bonus issue
was made. So capital benefits are ex-
tremely generous, although few and far
between. The shares are essentially an
income-only prospect and the generous
dividend policy adopted by the directors
makes them one of the best prospects in
this field. The table shows, for example,
that, between 1961 and 1964, almost all
profits were distributed as dividends. The
current rate is the lowest since the 10
p.c. of 1952 and 1953 (following the
bonus issue), so an increase is inevitable.
Depreciation seems a little low in
relation to assets, but the group has been
established for so long that the assets
are probably over-depreciated already.
The last revaluation was in '1956. Low
surpluses reflect the generous dividend
policy; the jump in 1965 seems a prudent
one in view of the loan capital borrow-
ing and the higher bank overdraft. Earn-
ing rates reflect the bonus issue, while
dividend yields reflect its anticipation up
to 1963. The shares were split from 20s.
to ss. in 1963-64.
To sum up: the shares are excellent
buying for the investor seeking a reliable
income from a solid company. The
return will increase as profits rise and
the dividend is lifted. Profits seem likely
to rise in the current year and in 1966-
67. The dividend will undoubtedly be
lifted in one or both of these years. In
the long term, further issues will be
possible if earning rates get back to the
1963 level. The asset backing for each
5s. share is about 12s. 4d., almost double
the current market price.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
End Feb. 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 287 278 286 278 275
Less current liabilities 198 190 201 173 204
Working capital 89 88 85 105 71
Fixed assets 1432 1440 1455 1449 1594
Intangible assets 17 17 17 17 17
1538 1545 1557 1571 1682
Ordinary capital 300 300 300 600 600
Preference capital 100 100 100 100 100
Loan capital — — — — 90
Reserves 1138 1145 1157 871 892
1538 1545 1557 1571 1682
Depreciation 5 7 7 10 9
Tax ‘ 48 41 46 52 62
Net profit 77 64 71 72 83
Ord. Div. 68 49 49 53 53
Pref. div. 9 9 9 9 9
Surplus — 6 13 10 21
Earning rate 22.7 18.3 20.7 14.3 12.4
Dividend rate 17| 11| 33
Dividend yield (a) 4.7 4.8 5.5 6.7 8.7
High price (b) 77/- 71/- 75/- 9/3 17/9
Low price (b) 66/- 59/- 53/6 7/3 6/6
(a) End March, month results announced.
(b) Calendar year.
DRUG HOUSES OF AUSTRALIA LTD
Looking for Fresh Fields
Tt is seven years since the shares of
Drug Houses of Australia Ltd were
so low on the market as they are today.
At 325. 6d. or thereabouts the income
yield is 6.2 p.c. As there have been no
share issues to existing shareholders
since a one-for-six at par in December,
1956, and shareholders’ income has
recently been cut, there can be no ex-
pectations of early growth in the future.
Shareholders who paid near the top
prices of 775. and 78s. in 1962 and 1963
must be concerned by the sharp contrac-
tion of the value of their investment.
Hopes were held three years ago that
rationalisation of activities and a greater
alliance with American Cyanamid Co.
of New York would revitalise DHA’s
earnings capacity.
Instead, the profit trend has been
down, with some redress in the latest
year to June 30. Nonetheless the six-
year-old dividend at 1H p.c. was clipped
to 10 p.c. in 1964-65.
Aggregate net profit after tax of
£430,000 (1964, £366,956) was £852,620
(£763,912). The tax burden was light-
ened by a special concession on new
plant installed in the Brooklyn factory,
deductions for export promotion ex-
penditure, and receipt of tax-free divi-
dends.
Total group sales were a record.
Directors were particularly pleased with
the merchandising divisions (where DHA
acts as wholesale chemists and druggists
in all States of Australia). The Anax
division, making and supplying scientific
and industrial apparatus, surgical and
veterinary instruments, laboratory equip-
ment and chemicals, made considerable
progress.
Drought conditions affected chemical
sales in the rural divisions but enhanced
the output of stock feeds.
The merchandising division in earlier
years (1964 and 1963) suffered from
substantial reductions in the official
prices for ethical items listed under the
National Health regulations. The dis-
tributing! discount on broad spectrum
antibiotics, for instance, was cut by 25
p.c. DHA claimed then that, when the
pharmaceutical benefits scheme was
introduced, their distributing discount
was considered fair and equitable. It
also insisted that it was unreasonable
to compare wholesalers in other countries
with DHA, because of the difference in
the area and population of Australia.
DHA was then distributing through 85
outlets to 5000 pharmacies all over the
country.
In the year under review no further
reductions in discounts on National
Health Drugs were made, yet this is a
fairly constant threat now. The 1964-
65 pharmaceutical benefits scheme cost
£43.7m. against £41.3m. in the previous
year. Any evidence that the drug com-


MERCANTILE
CREDITS LTD.
UP TO
Debenture Issue
Applications accepted only on application form attached to and
referred to in a printed copy of the Prospectus obtainable from
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange in Australia.
• Any branch of Australia and New Zealand Bank Ltd.
• The Hongkong Bank Group Representative Office, 109 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Or any branch of
MERCANTILE CREDITS LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 10-14 Underwood Street, Sydney
1478/63
panies are making excessive profits on
the National Health drugs will lead to
renewed pressure from the Federal Gov-
ernment to pare down the cost. How-
ever, the chief targets are the manu-
facturing drug companies. DHA is pre-
dominantly a wholesaler.
The restrictive trade practices legisla-
tion also gave DHA some concern in
1963.
DHA exports to South-East Asia and
the UK grew in 1964-65. The company
expects some restrictions on exports to
Malaysia and Singapore (the biggest over-
seas market) after 1966, due to import
duties and quotas newly imposed.
One hopeful feature of the 1966
trading period is that it should be the
first year for a return on DHA’s invest-
ment in association with Baxter Labora-
tories Inc. of Chicago, in Baxter-DHA
Laboratories Pty. This venture was
begun in 1963 to make and sell ethical
pharmaceutical products, especially intra-
venous solutions and equipment. Profits
were to be retained for three years.
, DHA’s other overseas connection is
with American Cyanamid Co., in Cyana-
mid DHA Pty, which produces Lederle
pharmaceuticals under licence. DHA
has a 20 p.c. interest in the joint com-
pany’s manufacturing facilities.
Prior to formation of the joint com-
pany, DHA was the sole formulator
and distributor for Lederle drugs. (Lederle
is Cyanamid’s pharmaceutical division.)
Now DHA is only one of about 32 Aus-
tralian distributors of those products.
This, therefore, meant a substantial loss
of income to DHA.
First dividend from the investment in
the joint company was received in 1963-
64. It was merely £21,000.
The company has a relatively strong
liquidity with no long-term liabilities.
The huge international drug manu-
facturers established in Australia are
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
Year to June 30 196T 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 10705 11215 10089 10643 11167
Less current liabilities 4341 4818 4424 5216 5547
Working capital 6364 6397 5665 5427 5620
investments 130 316 419 550 591
Fixed assets 5492 5625 6711 6897 6916
11986 12338 12795 12874 13127
Minority interests 8 8 — — —
Pref. capital 100 100 100 100 100
Ord. capital 5860 5860 5919 5919 5919
Reserves 6018 6370 6776 6855 7108
11986 12338 12795 12874 13127
Depreciation ' 224 213 176 206 217
Tax 720 753 667 367 430
Net profit 1043 1070 971 764 853
Net profit for ords. 1037 1064 965 758 847
Dividend 659 659 663 666 592
Surplus 378 405 302 92 255
Earning rate 17.7 17.9 16.3 12.8 14.3
Dividend rate 11| 11} I1J ]]i 10
Dividend yield (a) 3.7 3.3 3.6 5.6
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 18.2 18.9 19.6 15.7
High price (b) 70/6 69/- 77/- 78/- 58/-
Low price (b) 50/- 50/- 63/9 53/6 36/3
(a) End of September, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
tending towards direct distribution them-
selves, by-passing the wholesaler.
DHA must, therefore, break into fresh
fields, or go into a permanent, if gentle,
decline. The chairman (Mr J. B. Storrar)
said at the 1965 annual meeting that the
board’s policies had enabled further pene-
tration into broader merchandising fields.
PITT, SON AND BADGERY LTD
Feeling the Rural Pinch
T>itt, Son and Badgery Ltd’s experi-
A ence in the year to June 30, 1965
selling a greater volume of wool for a
lower wool cheque—was the same as for
the industry as a whole.
Pitt, Son usually handles about 3.4
p.c. of the wool received into store by
individual selling brokers for sale by
auction. (The major broker is Elder
Smith Goldsbrough Mort selling 26.5
p.c., followed by Dalgety and New Zea-
land Loan with 21.2 p.c., then a long
way behind, Winchcombe Carson, Aus-
tralian Mercantile Land and Finance,
Farmers and Graziers Co-op Co, Aus-
tralian Estates and Queensland Primary
Producers’ Co-op.)
Pitt, Son subsidiary and associate com-
panies’ offices are at Boorowa, Bombala,
Cooma, ’Crookwell, Dubbo, Goulburn,
Merriwa, Nyngan, Scone, Trangie and
Wellington, all in NSW. There are wool
and produce stores at Pyrmont (Sydney)
and Newcastle.
Revenue from livestock sales actually
increased for 1964-65, despite the
drought conditions. Other income is de-
rived from property sales, supplying mer-
chandise to the man on the land, arrang-
ing tours and accommodation, effecting
insurance, and merchandising wines and
spirits.
Net result of trading in the last finan-
cial year was a profit of £123,795, which
was a 12.2 p.c. decline from the level of
the previous year.
Earning rate eased back from 21.0 to
18.5 p.c. on unchanged capital, but the
13.0 p.c. dividend was maintained with-
out embarrassment.
The Federal basic wage adjustment in
June, 1964, added £20,000 to the com-
pany’s annual salaries and wages bill,
and the decision of the 1965 national
wages cases will add another 11 p.c. to
wage costs.
The chairman (Mr J. D. MacLeod)
told shareholders that, despite the increas-


:
Sr - * 1 7771
4 ■
1: i
m
A new angle
—on industrial buildings. The angle we are referring to is the
LOWLINE roof of the Armco Rigid Frame Building, so reveal-
ingly portrayed above by our photographer who got a little out
of control when he saw the beautiful job we’d made of it.
It’s modern. It’s low. You like it? It means that you can plan
’a building around the versatile Armco Rigid Frame System and
have it look mighty attractive.
Drop us a line if you’ve got something in the wind. We’d like
to help you right from the start.
A
03IAIHV
(Australia) Pty. Ltd.
N.S.W.: 127-141 Bath Road, Sutherland. 521-2711.
Victoria: 32 Levanswell Road, Moorabbin, 5.20. 95-0241.
Queensland: 194-196 Grey Street, South Brisbane. 4-3214.
South Australia: M.L.C. Building, Victoria Square.
Adelaide. 51-4282.
AR139A.63
MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
o
NEW ISSUE
PER ANNUM
5 YEARS &
7-20 YEARS
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications for Debentures and Unsecured Notes,
accepted only on the form referred to in and attached to
the printed prospectus which is available from:
BANK OF N.S.W. BRANCHES—STOCKBROKERS
Joint Underwriters: A. B. S. White & Co./Pring Dean & Co.
(Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange Limited)
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE COMPANY LTD.
316 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. 61-9701, 61-6421
MA222NSW
ing demands for financial assistance from
clients, the overdraft was well within
normal operating limits and the com-
pany’s resources were adequate for this
purpose.
Prospects for the current year are
dulled by the drought in NSW, which
is particularly severe in the far west,
north and north-west areas. The wool
now coming into store is less than
usual and there is some deterioration in
quality.
Supplies of livestock for market fell
off in the latter part of last season; with-
out rain, this shortage of fat and store
stock will affect earnings this year. The
demand for rural properties, good
throughout 1964-65, will also be affected
by continuance of dry conditions.
Wool prices at the opening sales of
this season are generally about Is. less
per lb. than the average for the whole
of last season, so it seems clear that
Pitt, Son and Badgery may feel the pinch
in the current year.
The company has a long and honorable
record of profits and dividends for each
of the last 35 years (at least), with
numerous bonuses prior to 1930. Since
the war there has been a one-for-two
bonus in 1952, supplemented by a one-
for-twenty bonus issue in lieu of a bonus
dividend. The only call for cash was a
one-for-three issue of notes in 1957
which converted to shares in January,
1963. Present capital is £669,293 in
ordinary shares.
By offering 22s. for the 10s. shares,
buyers are paying for almost twelve years’
profits. This may be gambling too far
into the future.
On a steady 13 p.c. dividend the shares
return 5.9 p.c. in income. As they are
primarily an income stock, the present
market assessment may prove too high
if current indications ar j correct.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 1991 1974- 1842 1915 2054
Less current liabilities 1135 1254 965 1063 1192
Working capital 856 720 877 852 862
Investments 50 50 50 64 85
Fixed assets 1062 1066 1080 1139 1147
Intangibles 30 7 14 10 10
1998 1843 2021 2065 2104
Loan capital 166 — — — —
Minority interests 8 9 15 19 23
Ordinary capital 499 499 669 669 669
Reserves 1325 1335 1337 1377 1412
1998 1343 2021 2065 2104
Depredation 17 16 15 15 14
Tax 56 61 69 107 91
Net profit 86 93 105 141 124
Dividend 65 65 80 87 87
Surplus 21 28 25 54 37
Earning rate 17.2 18.4 17.0 21.0 18.5
Dividend rate 13 13 13 13 13
Dividend yield (a) 5.2 5.0 4.7 3.9
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 145 14.1 15.7 16.1
High price (b) 40/- 26/9 31/- 33/- 36/1
Low price (b) 23/6 23/3 25/- 25/9 29/6
Bales of wool
sold ('000) 164 164 157 172 175
Average price
per lb. (pence) 53 57 61 72 60
(a) End of September, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.


Fix It Yourself
AUTO-MOTO
MAGIC OVRHAUL
WHILE-U-DRIVE
Engine Self-Reconditioner While U Drive,
REPLATES WORN upper cyls., main bearings,
diflfs., gears, SAVES rebore, ENDS piston slap,
rattles, oil, petrol waste. RESTORES new
compression, power, top speed, zipp. SAVES.
Adds £ s.d. to resale value. GUAR, up to
25,000 miles. HARMLESS finest engine.
SIMPLY add amazing expanding mineral Nu-
Metal (pat.) In oil, petrol or plug holes.
1,2, 4,6, 8 cyls., 15/6, 30/- 60/- 70/-,
80/-. Testimonials, engineers' reports, free
advice available. Open Sat. morn. Dis. req.
Sold only by RE-NU CO. (estab. 1932), 58
Swan St. (opp. Richmond Stn.), Vic. 42 1755.
I enclose £ for
or send free particulars describing action of
Nu-Metai.
NAME
ADDRESS "BUL."
FRIENDS IN BRITAIN?
Hampers, turkeys, fruits, cakes, gourmet foods
from £1 delivered U.K 12 days.
Send stamp tor latest free
FINE FOODS CATALOGUE Wine list.
POSTAL GIFT SERVICE
DEPT 8.. P.O BOX 32, ELIZABETH, S.A.
Public Notice
RE: WILGA SCOTLAND CAMPBELL, formerly
of Potts Point, and ELLEN MARLOW, form-
erly of Mayfield. Would anyone knowing the
present whereabouts of either of these persons
please contact MESSRS. BRAYE CRAGG
COHEN & CO., Solicitors, 26 Bolton Street,
Newcastle.
Legal Notices
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF TASMANIA
(Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction)
Launceston District Registry
No. M.C, 67 of 1965
BETWEEN SHEILA WINIFRED FOGG,
Petitioner and LLEWELLYN GEORGE FOGG,
Respondent.
TO: LLEWELLYN GEORGE FOGG, whose last
known address was 115 Tarleton Street, East
Devonport in the State of Tasmania, but
whose present address is unknown. TAKE
NOTICE a Petition has been presented to
the abovenamed Supreme Court by Sheila
Winifred Fogg of 115 Tarleton Street, East
Devonport in the State of Tasmania, institu-
ting proceedings for a decree of dissolution of
marriage with you on the grounds of deser-
tion. and also a notice that you may file an
Answer to the dharges in the said Petition.
In default of your so filing an Answer, you
will not be allowed to address the Court, and
the Court will proceed to hear the said
charges proved and pronounce judgment, your
absence notwithstanding, AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose afore-
said within 28 days after the date of this
publication, an Answer must be filed at the
Principal Registry of the Supreme Court of
Tasmania, Public Buildings, Franklin Square,
Hobart in Tasmania, or at the Launceston
District Registry, Cameron Street, Launceston
in Tasmania, or a Notice of Address for service
must be given in accordance with the Matri-
monial Causes Act, 1959. DATED this 25th
day of August, 1965. J. EATON, District
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: KIRIL GENOV late of Melbourne, Vic-
toria. TAKE NOTICE that LUBA GENOV has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3726 of 1965
on the grounds of desertion and/or separa-
tion. If you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
6th day of December, 1965, and obtain a copy
of the Petition and Notice of Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS GREGG MILNE &
CO., Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
C. A H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: VIOLET ADELE PHILLIPS, late of
Sydney. TAKE NOTICE that Henry Louis
Phillips has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3228 of 1965 on the grounds of desertion and
separation notwithstanding the facts and
circumstances set out in a Discretion State-
ment filed by him. If you wish to defend you
must file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney on
or before the 29th day of November, 1965, and
obtain a copy of the petition and notice of
petition without charge from T. G. D. MAR-
SHALL LANDERS & Co., Solicitors, of 251-253
George Street, Sydney or Harris Wheeler
Williams & McKenzie, Solicitors of 43 Bolton
Street, Newcastle. C. A. H. Harms, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: LAWRENCE O’NEILL COLLINS late of
Leeton. TAKE NOTICE that LOUISE HELEN
ELLINGTON COLLINS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3248 of 1965 on the ground of de-
sertion notwithstanding the facts and cir-
cumstances set out in the Discretion State-
ment filed herein. If you wish to defend you
may file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building. Macquarie Street, Sydney on
or before the 29th day of November, 1965 and
obtain a copy of the Petition and Notice of
Petition without charge from BELBRIDGE,
HAGUE & CO , Solicitors, Hume Chambers,
Kiewa Street. Albury, New South Wales or
from their city agent, G. S. Lewis, Solicitor,
661 George Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: LESLIE ALLAN MORRIS, late of Woo-
nona, N.S.W., TAKE NOTICE that DAWN
ROSE MORRIS has filed a petition for divorce,
No. 3688 of 1965 on the ground of desertion
notwithstanding the facts and cricumstances
set out in the discretion statement filed here-
in. If you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the 6th day of December, 1965. and obtain a
copy of the Petition from MESSRS GREGG
MILNE & CO., Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 870
ACROSS
I—Dawn mentioning Doris’s successful visit to the
billiard table. (5, 2,3)
6—Outcome of the clucking urge. (3)
9—Famous NSW coastal fishing resort is more than
a boring one. (9)
10— Rosie is hiding an indicator of the, non-comic. (5)
11— About some tense meal. (6)
12— She interrupts an egg-producer of a gray. (5)
14—Monsieur who works in water? (7)
16—Ernie is changed—a sex-change presumably. (5)
17— Wines ordered to develop
muscle. (5)
18— Who baits the centre I recon-
structed? (7)
19— Fish for 6d. (5)
20— Poster indicating the very fast
remainder in the post office.
(6)
23 Low point in the drain. (5)
24 Pertaining to Black Sea sup-
port on credit. (9)
25 Who declared that the lady’s
not for grilling fish. (3)
26 Others scars concealed by
music-makers. (10)
DOWN
1— How’s Joan Sutherland as-
tonishingly cheap? (6, 3,1, 4)
2 Girl who supplies the article
to measure. (4)
3 Carpet city exponent of ban-
tering Ginger Meggs’s girl,
the rest being disorderly. (13)
4 Drop upon a composer. (5)
5 A tin having yours in refer-
ence to the Corinthian decora-
tion. (9)
7 Australia’s leading danseur in
a Cambrian garden. (5, 5)
8 — Apparently we’re diligent
members of the kindergarten
though blowing our tops.
(5, 3,6)
10—Captain tosses incorrectly in
high places. (5, 8)
13—Hide errors from this jockey.
(5-5)
15—Novel resort first mentioned
by a journal. (9)
21— Take no cheek—it’s too much
for this biblical personage. (5)
22 Perform with outstanding
brilliance in Arts. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 869


BINDERS
for The Bulletin
For 15/- you can keep three ninths’ copies of The Bulletin
m a cloth-bound, gold-lettered binder, ready for easy refer-
ence. The binders are ideal for libraries, where The Bulletin
is m constant demand, and for business houses where frequent
r ?!Ff nce % ? Tia< ? e to P asfc financial features; ideal, too, as a
Sift for a friend.
end 15/- (cheque or postal note, not cash, please) to “Bulletin
Binder. Box 5252, G.P.0., Sydney, together with the coupon
and address label below.
ORDER FORM
THE BULLETIN BINDER
Box 5252/ G.P.0./ Sydney
Please DISPATCH
BULLETIN BINDERS , price IS/* a copy (post freeJ. I
enclose til cheque/postal note.
Name of sender ..... ...
Address
State ...........
If more than one binder is ordered, attach list giving full
name, address, State and, if overseas, country.
ADDRESS LABEL
THE BULLETIN BINDER
PRINTED MATTER ONLY
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNET
Name
Address mmmmmmmmimmmmmmmimmm*mm*«
• State miiiuMIIMHIM* 1
Sender
If undelivered, please return to Box 5253, G.P.0., Sydney.
SPECULATORS DIARY
The Importance of Stocks
Watch the danger signals
..,,,. . . c , ..
THE flow of annual reports that I mentioned last week shows no sign of abating.
A After a brief glance at most of them, I’ve decided that the most distinguishing
feature of this year’s lot is the increase in stocks. To mention but two, Repco s stoc
figure was up from £7,900,000 to £10,900,000, while Courtaulds stock had almost
doubled from £1,340,000 to £2,300,000.
In my book, stock increases that are
well out of proportion to the increase
in sales or profits represent a danger
si°nal. One learns from the lessons of
1960
'
. L £tS J O , at an aC ) Ua exar "P^ e ’
William Aaams. The stock figure of the
company rose from £2,412,000 in 1960
to £4 304 000 in 1961. This proved a
more ’ significant indication of future
trading than did profits, which showed
o dirrht tr, -m7nnf) in
only a slight reduction to £317 000 in
the 1961 year. Next year profits had
„i, imn .j r 190 non The sharp nrice
slumped to £l-0,000. the s a e p
followed a similar pattern to the profit
movement. Even though annual sales
are now 40 p.c. higher than they were
in 1961, the stock figure of £3,928,000
at June 30, 1965, is well below the 1961
j evel
Although not by design, another com-
pany in the portfolio also ably demon-
F : j .u , r . , ■ -
strated the effect of overstocking on
profitability. In 1960 the Stock figure of
Fire Fighting rose from £301,000 to
£511,000. While this could partly be
explained by some takeovers, it seems
that the bulk of the increase was un-
necessary stocking. With this weight
added to the normal problems of a
recession, profits fell right away. So
also did the market price, which had
reached a peak of 20s. in 1960.
In the last two years the company has
staged an impressive profit recovery.
Less conspicuous but equally impressive
has been the strict stock control in this
period of rising sales and profits. The
stock figure was actually reduced by
£lOO,OOO during the last year.
Pp r u nn(; t am i av khina ton much
. on tbe changed habfts of two of
praise on the changed habits of two ot
the _ several stocks in the portfolio, yet
think they deserve it. But it s the actual
size of the portfolio and the debit balance
aoco-int that’s occunvine most of
m the account mat s occupying most of
my attention. The action I finally took
“fixed interest” invest
was to sell my two fixed interest invest-
ments and half the Steamships Trading
holdings. Ive called Rootes shares a
fixed . interest investment because they
can in effect be regarded as Chrysler
preference shares. Rootes worked as
" ell ‘> s .!’ d , h “P ed - since lhe P™ fit “j th
/' d ' vlde "c 7°,",? “ was £l2 ' Al „°
the sale of Ford debentures gave a profit
° r
0t v
Now that the account is back into
credit, I feel more free to buy without
necessarily having to sell.
So it was that I purchased 500 Project
Development at 2s. 3d. early in the week.
The shares had come down so steeply
that there had to _be a reaction. It
turned out that I’d just caught them on
the turn. When the price got to 3s. 3d.
I sold out these 500 shares and then
shorted a further 500 shares.
Project Development has had one of
the most hectic records in recent years./
Starting off as a building contractor in
Sydney, it now has most of its funds in-
vested in a meatworks up in the western
Kimberleys in Western Australia. Also,
in its time, it has been as far afield as
Malaysia and France, but operations are
now concentrated in Australia and New
Guinea.
A glance at the last year’s balance
sheet shows current liabilities exceeding
current assets by a cool £1 million. While
the liquidity position has apparently im-
proved, it can hardly be put in the same
class as L. J. Hooker (also in meat and
building). Yet the recovery of Project
Development shares has taken the price
above L. J. Hooker’s shares. Perhaps,
instead, I should be buying Hooker?
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
2 Ford debentures, £lOl/15/- £203
200 Rootes, 19/3 £196
500 Steamships, new, 9/- £220
1000 Project Development, 3/3 .. £159
BOUGHT
500 Project Development, 2/3 . £57
There’s now just on £l5O credit in the
account.
The week’s dealings left me holding:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
500 Steamships
Trading, new 25/5/65 9/6 9/0
500 NAUC 28/6 65 7/- 7/3
1000 NG Gold 27/7/65 4/4 4/3
400 Wibroc 19/8/65 13/6 13/-
400 Tennyson 19/8/65 7/9 8/6
200 Mt Isa 7/9/65 36/6 36/-
500 Concrete Ind. 8/9/65 4/7 4/3
500 Fire Fightina 13/9/65 ' 6/3 6/3
400 Pongrass 15/9/65 11/- 11/-
200 VAM 28/9/65 5/- 5/6
500 W. Adams rts 29/9/65 5/7 6/-
200 BHP rts 5/9/65 24/9 25/3
500 Project (short) 14/9/65 3/3 3/3


■
asil
m
■ m :
Slsii
I MMWBHfe i i i spi MM
M
c.®
ag/..
t^mem
wmmmmm
lg|§jfg|l
Jj
iKiiia
L,
Omega self-winding Seamaster: the world’s favourite sports watch. Winds itself automatically. Hermatically sealed against water.
As illustrated: Gold filled £4B. Also Stainless Steel £39.
This self-winding Omega Seamaster
is as tough as the sportsmen who will wear it.
Its accuracy and long life are assured by waterproof tests in a special simulator, unique to Omega.
Designed for a long, tough life.
The Seamaster is a sports watch. It has
been built to take the rough-and-
tumble of water skiing, motor racing,
power golf—and still give you pre-
cision timekeeping.
What makes the Omega Seamaster
a great watch?
Certain components of the Omega
Seamaster are machined to an accuracy
of 2/000th millimeter (1 /9th the dia-
meter of a hair). In watchmaking this
is the difference between greatness and
mediocrity, between accuracy and
poor timekeeping.
More accurate because you never
wind it.
The mainspring of a stemwound
watch releases much of its power
immediately after winding. It then
weakens progressively. As the main-
spring uncoils, the accuracy of the
watch is compromised. The mainspring
of the Omega Seamaster reaches peak
tension shortly after you slip on the
watch. Thereafter, every flick of your
wrist winds the movement. The result:
a steady flow of power, i.e. enhanced
accuracy.
Waterproof to a depth of 200 feet.
When Omega say a watch is water-
proof they really mean it. Every Sea-
master has been put through the
unique Omega “diveproofing” test. In
45 minutes the watch is shot through
17 different pressure changes. It’s like
plunging a watch 200 feet below the
sea, then catapulting it to the top of
Mount Everest. Your Omega Sea-
master is therefore ready to accompany
you skindiving, solo-flying or moun-
tain climbing.
The world-famous Omega name.
Like all Omegas, the Seamaster has
been precision-engineered, lavished
with infinite care. It is styled on the
lines of classic elegance that Omega
is famous for. It is unconditionally
guaranteed for a year against any
possible mishap except loss, fire or
theft. All through its long life it will
receive the backing of the Omega
World Service Organization spread
over 156 countries. No wonder Omega
Seamaster is the most sought after
precision sports watch in the world.
You will find the Seamaster at the best
Jewellers only. They were appointed by
Omega because they merit your
confidence.
Q
OMEGA


Why Waitangi?
(pronounced Why-tangi)
The other day a Sydney
businessman who had spent 4
weeks seeing all New Zealand
was asked to name the highlight.
"Waitangi!" he said. "I want
to go back to Waitangi - for 6
weeks."
, : I * »J
I
At Waitangi, sheltered
in the Bay of Islands (149 of
them) north of Auckland, is
the newest of New Zealand's
new-look international resorts.
There are do-nothing things to
do like loafing around the heated
pool over a beer or two, ambling
rhsH- '
'
by foot, car or boat through a
charming, historic district. Or
get out on the blue waters to haul
in a swordfish, just as Zane Grey
did. Take a look at a superb
collection of Maori carvings;
golf on a course famous for its
hill-striding fairways. And when
you feel like a day out, you can
visit the calm green heart of
a Kauri Forest, or drive along
the Ninety Mile Beach. (In
the season, try digging for
toheroas.)
At the waterside Waitangi
Hotel your suite is luxurious,
the smooth and the
1/2 ( <r» ACT IQC*\ ) -Ml
cuisine memorable (it even
includes deep-sea marlin steaks).
The cellar contains 40 international
vintages.
r
Escape to Waitangi!
Daily air and railcar services
from Auckland, or drive
yourself on an uncrowded
scenic highway. See your
travel agent or the New Zealand
Government Tourist Bureau,
14 Martin Place Sydney,
Phone 25 6631. 93/95 Elizabeth
Street, Melbourne, Phone 67 6621
or M.L.C. Building, Adelaide
Street, Brisbane, Phone 26 152
for further details.
WAITANGJ
NEW ZEALAND
