

The Bulletin
& MALAYSIA’S OTHER CONFRONTATION
' ' „ „ .
JUNE 19,1965
JPORATING THE* 'AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
ill AIICTIMI Mil
AN AUSTRALIAN
BOMB?
INSANITY OR
INDEPENDENCE


For the Best EXPERIENCE in Australia
——
r
*
sbord
It r %
• O z
illlJlllllll-UllJtt,
. off .
# v /
'III,/
i&n
m.
< —\ "5
If
o'".
:c P-e
°/e/
Av |S .
jgij^
a
>•
EVRON
i
SYDNEY
Where experience and new concepts of luxury satisfy the world’s most dis-
criminating pleasure seekers or business men European elegance and
Australian informality blend together at Chevron.
All rooms and suites fully air-conditioned own bath, toilet, TV, radio and
phone overlooking beautiful Sydney Harbour.
Chevron is in the heart of fascinating Kings Cross minutes from sporting
facilities and business houses.
The world’s finest entertainers perform for you in the Silver Spade room
exquisite dining in your choice of restaurants or just relax in one of Chevron’s
intimate bars.
When you stay Chevron it will be your best experience ever!
BOOK THROUGH HOTEL EXPEDITERS, INC.
NEW YORK: 501 Madison Ave., N.Y. 10022. TehPLaza 25660:Teletype: 710-581-5015: Cab:
HEDEGRAFF. SAN FRANCISCO: 291 Geary St. Tel. YU 6-2858. Teletype: 910-372-6035 Cab:
EDSULLIVAN. HONG KONG: Union House, 9 Connaught Rd. Tel. 32862. TOKYO:
C.P.O. Box 703, Tokyo, Japan. Tel: 211-5920: Cables: SWIRE. LONDON: 16 Berkeley St.
London, W.l, England. Tel. Hyde Park 5755. AGENTS FULLY PROTECTED: LOCAL RESERVA-
TIONS: MELBOURNE 51.1281 or any TRAVEL AGENT or direct with CHEVRON HOTEL.
AVIS
RENTA CAR
AVIS ADDS TO YOUR EXPERIENCE
See more, do more, have more fun
when you drive a sparkling new AVIS
car. Arrange for an AVIS car to be
waiting for you at the Hotel or Airport
when you book your travel.
CHEVRON HOTEL, MACLEAY ST., POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY, N.S.W. TELEPHONE: 35-0433. CABLES ‘CHEVRON SYDNEY’


K
-T
irv.-j
SSSSSf
:p§j#S§;
i-v.«
ssa
■'. - ' •.i: -;
mm
:
iSif&K*
■
Stone-age
Stacking
in the
Jet Age?
MODERN packaged and crated
goods call for modern methods of
handling—methods which save time,
space, money and manpower, yet do
not involve the ownership of expen-
sive equipment.
ONE of the most revolutionary tools
of industry and commerce is the fork
lift truck. Hire modern fork lift
trucks from CHEP —by the hour, by
the week, or on a permanent basis.
CHECK WITH CHEP. Call the
nation’s most experienced advisers in
materials handling to review your
problems, without cost or obligation.
CHEP
Crescent Street, Glebe, N.S.W. 68 4211
CHEP
Sandgate Road, Albion, Brisbane, Qld. 6 2181
CHEP
205 Hanson Road, Athol Park, Adelaide, S.A. 45 7922
ctu.
The Bulletin
VOLUME 87
NUMBER 4451
Established 1880
June 19
1965
An Australian Bomb?
A “Bulletin” Symposium 20
AROUND MELBOURNE 18
ARTS AND ENTERTAIN-
MENT 46
BUSINESS AND FINANCE . 58
CROSSWORD 82
FORUM 40
LETTERS 42
MAN ON THE LAND 79
PLAIN ENGLISH 13
SHORT STORY 43
SHEAD 12
THIS AUSTRALIA 14
GENERAL
The Showdown '. 14
Abolishing Juries 15
Jehovah's Law? 15
Housewife’s Champion 32
Forgotten Minority 34
Some Musty Skeletons 37
Sent Up 40
REVIEWS
THEATRE: Any Wednesday .... 51
TELEVISION: A m ong the
Giants 49
MUSIC: Youth Concert 49
BOOKS
The Politics of Hysteria, by E.
Stillman and W. Pfaff 52
Communist China’s Crusade, by
Guy Wint 52
Collected Stories, by Frank Sar-
geson 53
FINANCE
Imports Stockpiled 58
Going, Going Up! 62
Speculator’s Diary 78
Editorial Office: 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


•‘T'’ '
■
S
fc
■
.
- &&&'
i
1
NR
'* *
AAi y ; 4 'V.
■5 -
m
■■•:
1 i
ss?
■
SiPS >; "
•?-.a
’ ® : ■ ■'
HHHH
This new money-saving Automatic Bag Sealer developed by 3M Tape Customer Engineering Service proves . . .
You get more than tape from 3M
scotch brand model S-605 Automatic Bag
Sealer is the first ever to seal polythene
bags with an easy-to-open re-sealable tab.
The tab is a short piece of pressure-
sensitive tape, laminated to printed paper.
Model S-605 processes up to 80 bags per
minute, taking bags up to 10 lb. capacity,
or adjusts easily for smaller bags.
It’s the latest product of 3M research and
designing skill, to make bag-sealing of pre-
weighed foodstuffs (or almost any dry bulk
material) an economic, split-second process.
A manual model, P3L/S, has also been
developed for smaller runs.
Let 3M explain its possibilities for you—
and help answer any of your bag-sealing
or taping problems. For details ask your
3M Salesman or Distributor representative
for . . .
Scotch TAPE
INDUSTRIAL TAPES DIVISION
miNNESOTA miNING AND MANUFACTURING [AUSTRALIA] PTY. LTD.
Sydney 43-0455, Melbourne 61-3841, Adelaide 51-5971,
Canberra 4-0791, Brisbane 5-4131, Perth 28-4651,
Hobart 3-3104, Auckland 295-109. sm3/6/6sa
3m
H CDmPANY


...
ML , I
■M
:
«
mm
a
.... a an
This may be the longest advertisement you’ve ever
read, but it’s worth it. Enthusiasts throughout
Australia have awaited this moment with a rare
eagerness. The Rover 2000, after 5 years in the
building and "rave" notices by eminent motoring
critics the world over, met with such instant suc-
cess that Australians have had to wait over 12
months for production to catch up with overseas
demand. To make the wait more agonizing, this
extraordinary new automobile added smashing
proof of its glowing reputation by a triumphant
touring car victory in the recent historic Monte
Carlo rally in which only 22 cars finished out of 237
starters. Now it’s here and if ever there was a
car you must see and drive to appreciate, this is it.
This is a sleek, lithe, whlppet-like Rover, unlike any
Rover you've ever seen before, yet a Rover through
and through in its impeccable finish and blissful
comfort. It’s an extremely quiet motor car with quite
exhilarating acceleration and a top speed over the
"ton". It’s designed to lope along all day at 90, so
you can imagine how safe it is at lower speeds.
It has phenomenal handling and cornering charac-
teristics. An entirely new, Rover-developed,
de Dion-type suspension gives it a grip on the road
which is quite unshakeable. English "Autocar" calls
it "a true driver's car that one would itch to take
out of the garage at the least excuse". There's
probably never been a safer car. built. You get disc
brakes, all round. Padding, padding and more
padding. And special 'fail-safe' construction right
through. (Too complicated to explain here but
tremendously important ask your Rover dealer
to elucidate.) It’s immensely strong. Rover sent
three 2000’s around 7000 miles of Australia's worst
roads in a deliberate endeavour to break them
HERE
AT LAST
FOR YOU TO
TEST DRIVE...
THE WORLD’S
MOST WANTED
CAR
on
ano
down. All three revelled in the conditions and ar*
still in showroom condition. The dust-proofing ia
fantastic. You can wallow in dust for a hundred
miles and not one speck will filter into the interior.
Even in a dust-storm, streams of cool, clean air
refresh you, controlled by ■ individually-adjustabla
air vents in the fascia. The heating is the type used
by Rolls and it's just wonderful. Comfort is lavish.
You've seen bucket-type contoured seats in the
front before, but how about in back? The Rover
2000 concept is to compromise slightly with the
comfort of an occasional fifth passenger in order
to provide superlative comfort for four. Your
driving position is precisely your own because not
only is the rake of your seat adjustable but also
that of your steering wheel. Upholstery is hide,
naturally. Trim is African Walnut. If you drive with
the choke out or the hand-brake on or with a
dangerously low brake-fluid or fuel level, helpful
warning lights let you know it. This is an enthusiast's
car, yes. But it's also a gentleman’s car. And a
lady's, too —indeed. Who can afford it? At £2285
(inc. tax), not everybody. But then many more than
think they can. Because the Rover 2000 is a car*
you'll want to keep for ten years and more. And
it's extremely inexpensive to maintain. Petrol
economy is a remarkable 30 m.p.g. The panels ard
applied to the body in such a way that it’s a verit-
able 'do-it-yourself' kit. Rover quality throughout
means you pay far less for maintenance than usual.
And can you think of an investment you could make
that will return you more daily pleasure than this?
Your Rover dealer has the key to the most enthrall-
ing test drive of your life.
ROVER AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
R 4 74


mmmm
J
........
■
m
m
■
-
.
lit
■; ,
pi
.. ...
■
m
WM &
J
-v
'
:<4
aw*
m
mm
.
We can introduce you to
37 new business prospects!
Queensland is the most decentralised of all the
Australian States and many districts offer oppor-
tunities for manufacturing investment.
Decentralisation which developed naturally in
Queensland has meant that expenditure on develop-
ment has been to one wide pattern, so that cities and
large towns throughout the State are able to provide
all the services manufacturers look for —power,
water supply, sewerage, industrial sites, skilled
labour, road, rail, sea and air transport and
modern communication. Local authority rates
and services, land values and building costs in
Queensland compare more than favourably with
those in other States.
Many of these districts with real promise for
manufacturers have established friendly advisory
bodies to assist potential investors. In fact there are
no less than 37 of these Industrial Committees in
Queensland.
You may find it well worth while to check with the
knowledgeable officers of the Department of Indus-
trial Development on the possible application of
these regions to your business interests.
m.®
THE DIRECTOR
BEPAJHMENT OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT
BRISBANE, AUSTRALIA
In Queensland you are always welcome
874(D).


Only Qantas offers
these 4 jetways around the world
X .&sr>
¥
JR:
The Honolulu
U.S.A.way
.
. .
.
■ ■■
The Tahiti - Mexico way
The Hong Kong- Orient way
The Singapore-Bangkok way
You just eat up air travel with Qantas
In world travel, the wider the range of choice, the
happier a traveller is likely to be. With Qantas you
can choose whether you’d like to fly west or fly east.
If you’re flying west, you can choose between the
Singapore-Bangkok way or the Hong Kong-Orient way.
If you’re flying east, you can choose between the
Honolulu-U.S.A. way or the Tahiti-Mexico way. Only
Qantas offers you these four jetways to London, Europe
and around the world. For that matter only Qantas
offers a jet a day to the U.S.A., 14 flights a week to
London and a choice of 24 world flights a week
from Australia. And wherever in the world you
fly with Qantas you’ll feel at home with Qantas’
unique Australian blend of friendliness and effi-
ciency. Start discussing
new travel ideas today
with your local Qantas
Travel Agent or Qantas.
Australia's Round- World Airline
OANTAS
44 years of dependable service
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in association with Air India, Air New Zealand, 8.0.A.C. and S-A.A,
Q 7.105.65


o
o
CD
E
o
V/}
"U
c
ta
JO
"O
c
fa
LU
CD
<
D
Q.
IXI
a
LU
CD
<
a
LU
o
*******
i
.
ggpH -„;;;-:> x
:■
YOUR CHOICE OF 10-KEY OR FULL KEYBOARD
NCR Adding Machines are ruggedly built
to give you many years of service, with
minimum maintenance. All models have
precision-made, heavy-duty parts. Quality
control, numerous inspections and tests go
into every step of production ... from raw
materials to finished machines.
Quality-built NCR Adding Machines are
your best buy because they're dependable,
efficient and beautifully styled. They last
longer because they’re built stronger. In
the long run they cost you less to own
and use. For a demonstration, without
obligation, call your NCR office.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE TOWNSVILLE NEWCASTLE ADELAIDE PERTH HOBART CANBERRA WACGA
211-2188 63-027] 2-0631 3276 2-4837 51-5821 21-9727 3-3887 4-0327 4345
THE NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO. PTY. LTD*


National Notebook
The Italian Look
TI/Ir Laurie Aarons had every reason.
to laugh last week at the Press con-
ference called by the Communist Party
of Australia. We had just asked him if
his appointment as general secretary bf
the party meant the beginning of a new
“Aarons’ line” in the party’s programme."
So Mr Aarons laughed. Party president
Mr R. Dixon laughed. Leading party
functionary Mr Steen smiled. And so did
Mr Lance Sharkey, the retiring general
secretary. But somehow he did not look
as though his heart was in it. Mr Aarons
declared, “Well, there’s no Aarons’ line,
no Italian line, or any other line.”
Having brushed off suggestions about
a softer line on the Italian party’s model,
Mr Aarons sat back while Mr R. Dixon
happily expounded precisely that line.
“We realise that different political situa-
tions call for different political decisions
and our approach must broaden out to
meet new requirements. We want co-
operation with non-Communist groups
because we don’t see Socialism as coming
in any other way except by co-operation
with a growing number of sections in the
Labor Party, with intellectuals, trade
unions and farmer organisations. The
Communist Party doesn’t march at the
head of a revolution.”
The new look in Communism clearly
regards revolution as a dirty word in
Australia.
An Italian line also means that the
party is anxious to talk to the capitalist
Press, this being the second Press con-
ference called by the CPA this year. For
the half-dozen reporters present there
were plates of savories (sardines and
egg), beer and coffee. There were jokes
about the cryptic poster on the wall,
“To mate or not to mate, that is the
question, Whether ’tis nobler on the chess-
board to take up arms” (Mr Aarons said
it sounded “revisionist”), polite offers to
put newsmen on the Vietcong’s mailing
list, and admissions about the difficulties
of being a Communist in an age of ideo-
logical split between Peking and Moscow.
We could only wonder what Mr Lance
Sharkey thought about it all. In “The
Tribune” last week he was quoted as
saying, “Laurie Aarons is now at the
height of his abilities, has fully matured
politically and in this sense his best
work for the party and the working class
lies before him.”
At the Press conference in the Orana
coffee lounge on the ground floor of the
party’s headquarters in Day Street, Syd-
ney, Lance Sharkey looked a tired man,
after holding the party’s top position for
17 years and figuring in most of its more
sensational publicity during that time.
Mr Sharkey, who is aged 67, resigned
reportedly for reasons of ill-health. After
a heart-attack in 1963, he received fur-
ther medical treatment at a Yalta sana-
torium while on a visit to the Soviet
Union earlier this year.
In fact Mr Aarons, 47, has for some
time been the real power in the Com-
munist Party Executive, as the ageing
Mr Sharkey has shown less and less
capacity to adjust to the changing ideo-
logical conflicts. One almost pathetic at-
tempt at keeping up with the party’s
new image and new approach to the
capitalist Press fell flat when Mr Sharkey
said, “No one can say we’re anti-Semitic
with Laurie as the new secretary.”
Another Carboni
IC\>r many months Perth spare parts
dealer Vincent Carboni has refused
in an expensive way to budge from his
reasonable contention that breakdowns
do not always occur in business hours
and that many motorists have only the
weekends to work on their cars. Eight
fines and legal expenses have cost him
more than £lOOO.
The West Australian Government has
admitted that his rebellion prompted its
amending legislation. Last week Labor
Minister O’Neil announced that 36
dealers had been granted permits to sup-
ply parts after hours. Mr Carboni was
not among them. Mr O’Neil said in a
short sermon that Mr Carboni would not
be considered until he had shown himself
capable of obeying the law one ad-
mitted to be faulty.
The permits allow the 36 firms to
supply after hours any part needed ur-
gently for a vehicle to make a journey or
complete a return trip to any place out-
side the metropolitan area. This stipula-
tion is, of course, of no use to most
vehicle-owners. As well, the 36 firms
were recommended by a sub-committee
from motor business groups but few
seem anxious to provide even this con-
dition-bound service. Many did not apply
for the permits. One principal said that
any motorist wanting parts after closing
time could “jump in the lake”.
Another unfortunate point is that all
36 firms are wholesalers, not retailers,
like Mr Carboni. The Minister has come
under sharp attack in the Press for his
“pettiness” in excluding Mr Carboni
ironically, the only dealer who has shown
that he is willing to trade after hours.
The Liberal Government has been ac-
cused of helping to perpetuate irritating
restrictions on enterprise and competi-
tion, and of inhibiting business initiative.
Now Mr O’Neil has expressed concern
at the attitude of some dealers among
the 36 and warned that their permits
would be revoked if they were unwilling
to' provide service. It seems odd that he
did not check this point before allocating
them. He said that Mr Carboni had not
applied for inclusion in the scheme but
again it appeared that the Minister had
not checked. The rebel dealer promptly
"But 'subtle nuances of color' doesn't GO with 'tour de force'!"


«* '** r® W%i ii Ms tik *■ *
i'",. st-& f »■& •.. ■>* ■ - ’ -...'
mm
7m
£* Vt^CTvte.
wSf/W*
m
W*% <***
W.
V -<A#v :
■JXI
, ißilSPPr**
$-. r
t ]
N
- -.•-
sfr~n
§sr- s ' - ?t,
mm
MM
% ...
&< *1
jC
v\ f
nMriy
- ;
> •;
•:> ■'
3 $ *>•
llfM ; <!§
, jrffi ; \ J
■ ■•*'■' ‘
mm
4 /Z
n
Is this
any way
to treat
a fine car?
Why not? Today's fine cars are as tough as yesterday’s trucks.
There are many reasons for this increased durability. Improved
engineering. Better materials. More efficient engines.
And better bearings. Today, millions of cars roll on tapered roller
bearings. Hundreds of makes and models and millions of cars are giving
better service because they are equipped with Timken tapered roller
bearings. The Timken Company pioneered the tapered design over 66
years ago, and we’ve concentrated on it ever since. We’re the world’s
largest producer of tapered roller bearings.
The steel in every Timken bearing is high in nickel content and case-
hardened to give it longer life under shock loads. The result is better
performance, more compact design in wheels, pinion and differential.
This is an important reason why you can get more enjoyment —and
more work out of your car. Australian Timken Pty. Ltd., Ballarat,
Victoria. Subsidiary of The Timken Roller Bearing Company. Timken
bearings manufactured in Australia, Brazil, Canada, England, France,
South Africa and U.SA Available in 116 countries.
TIMKEN
TAPERED ROLLER
BEARINGS


produced a letter he had received the
previous day from the shops and fac-
tories department, advising him that his
application made last December
had been rejected by the sub-committee.
At the end of a very unhappy and
embarrassing week, Mr O’Neil reversed
his ruling and said Mr Carboni could
have a permit after all.
Tokyo Exhibition
"IV/Tore than 23,000 people have seen
an exhibition of Aboriginal art in
the sixth-floor gallery of Tokyo’s big
Shinjuku department store. The exhibi-
tion was organised by Mrs Dorothy
Bennett, founder of the Australian
Aboriginal Art Trust.
The display has also been shown on
nation-wide television. There have also
been crowded audiences for the evening
lectures given by Mrs Bennett.
An artist, Toshiichi Kumano, said
Japanese were attracted to the art
because of their hunger for simplicity.
“Its harmony with natural materials,
especially bark, appeals to Japanese,” he
said.
Mrs Bennett is displaying 100 bark
paintings, 150 sculptures, various items
of ceremonial dress, primitive artistic
tools and materials, weapons and musical
instruments. None of it is for sale. How-
ever, various items which Mrs Bennett
brings back from her trips to Arnhem
Land are sold and the net profits go to
the artists. Last year these profits
amounted to £7OOO.
Theatre — The Friendly Way
r | Vie new TAA Theatre in Brisbane,
Australia’s first theatre sponsored
by an airline, is in the Petrie Bight sec-
tion of the city, a couple of blocks away
from TAA’s city terminal but in the
same street. It is a small theatre, intimate
and, of course, friendly.
TAA came to enter the theatrical field
largely due to the enterprise of Brisbane-
born, one - time American theatre
manager, Alex Francis - Smith. Mr
Francis-Smith returned to Brisbane five
years ago on a year’s leave of absence
from his job as theatre manager with
the Beacon Hill Theatre, Boston, and
decided to stay. Back in Brisbane Mr
Francis-Smith learnt from his sister,
Gloria Birdwood-Smith (brother and
sister decided to differ on names), one
of the best-known producers in Brisbane
little theatre, of the various problems of
theatrical groups in Brisbane. Problem
Number One was the need for an
intimate theatre with adequate back-
stage facilities and a stage large enough
to cope with all types of theatre and
ballet.
Twelve months ago, Alex Francis-
Smith formed the Club Theatre and
Cultural Group, a group of ten people
interested and knowledgeable in some
aspect of theatre. He looked over the
old Ritz ballroom and saw how it could
be turned into a theatre.
Armed with some telling arguments
a brewery in Amsterdam and other
overseas firms had backed similar pro-
jects Mr Francis-Smith approached
TAA who agreed to back his ideas with
a TAA theatre.
The old ballroom is now a theatre
with seating capacity for more than 450.
There is a stage with a 28-feet depth
and a 32-feet proscenium. Backstage
facilities include, among other amenities,
four dressing-rooms (with hot and cold
water). There is a VIP suite and a club
room incorporating a coffee bar.
The theatre was still being finished
when Brisbane Repertory staged the
theatre’s first show, “Calamity Jane”.
The theatre is a renting theatre which
can be booked by any theatrical group
and is being run on non-profit lines by
Mr Francis-Smith and his Club Theatre
and Cultural Group. Mr Francis-Smith,
secretary Edgar Hawthorn, treasurer
John Winch, Gloria Birdwood-Smith and
the rest all give their time freely to
provide, as Mr Francis-Smith puts it,
“a much needed service which the City
Council couldn’t provide”.
For TAA, backing a theatre is a pilot
venture which, if successful, may lead
to other theatres elsewhere.
Way Off Centre
"Dob Alban, centres manager of Myer’s
latest £9-million shopping El Dorado,
Northland, now a’building at Preston
in Melbourne, has just returned from a
tour of shopping centres in the United
States.
He says some of them are quite extra-
ordinary. For example, Macys are build-
ing a shopping centre at Queen’s, NY,
now approaching completion. It looks
like two great gasometers side by side.
One is the department store, the other
is for car parking. They are intercon-
nected. So if a woman is interested in
buying her undies on the fifth floor, why,
she parks her car on the “gasometer”
fifth floor and just walks through to the
other building.
CAPTAIN MOONLIGHTS DISCIPLE
80 Years Ago: June 20, 1885
Johns is in Darlinghurst
Gaol under sentence of death.
He is a young man of two or three-
and-twenty. When a lad of sixteen,
his head perhaps full of the literature
of the dock he was enticed from
home by a specious ruffian, an old
gaol-bird known as “Captain Moon-
light”. Moonlight’s career was short,
and not particularly brilliant. A con-
stable was shot, and the lad of sixteen
being among the would-be bush-
rangers, found himself and his com-
panions facing Judge Windeyer from
the dock one morning and listening
to the death-sentence. The boy’s
youth, coupled with the fact that it
was not shown that he fired the fatal
shot, pleaded for him. He was re-
prieved. For seven years he conducted
himself creditably in gaol. But now
again he is under sentence of death.
During his confinement an elderly
lady of pious proclivities was a con-
stant visitor at the gaol. She took an
interest in the young convict, and
he he knew little of the world,
having left it when a mere child
fell in love with her. Prison walls do
not shut out gossip. One of his mates
“chaffed” him, whereupon he jumped
up and buried a knife a knife he
had concealed and sharpened in
the man. The latter recovered. And so
Johns is again a tenant of the con-
demned cell, awaiting the fiat of the
Executive Council.
For some time previously his man-
ner was so peculiar that the Governor
of the prison thought of putting him
under medical surveillance. Oddly
enough, he was tried before the very
Judge Windeyer who, seven years ago,
sentenced him to death. Judge Win-
deyer has the reputation of being stern
and unbending. His reputation is in
no danger. Many might think it a
heartless thing to sit, gaudily-attired,
on a raised seat, and, in a roundabout
way, if not in so many words, tell the
man before you, whose life was for-
feit, that you regretted he was not
hanged years ago. Not so, Judge Win-
deyer. He is above such puerile weak-
ness.
Through rain and sludge we say
we saw his mother —an utter stranger
in this colony—walk, last week, seek-
ing signatures for the reprieve of her
son. The poor woman is a widow, with
two other children. She suffers from
heart-disease. She called on Judge
Windeyer, but he could promise
nothing. Nor would ecclesiastical dig-
nitaries respond to the widow’s ap-
peal.
Had she lived in Galilee two thous-
and years ago, Christ might have
pitied her. But His followers of to-day
have improved upon their Master.


Shead -Guest Cartoonist
"I banned one." "So did I." "So did I." "Another hard day's work, lads."


PLAIN ENGLISH
An Independent Deterrent
/Communist China’s second nuclear
explosion has inevitably renewed
the debate in Australia as it has in
India and Japan over whether or
not we should take at least the preli-
minary steps toward building an inde-
pendent nuclear deterrent. It is around
this issue that The Bulletin this
week has published a set of articles by
Professor E. W. Titterton, Mr B. A.
Santamaria and Professor H. S.
Albinski.
There is, fortunately, no longer any
tendency in the free world to under-
estimate the power of Communist
China as many critics of China
have done for years past. It already
has the means of making up to 50
plutonium-derived bombs a year at
plants near Peking, Tientsin, Chung-
king, Shenyang and Sian (without
taking into account the vast nuclear
centre at Lanchow in Central Asia
where China’s first H-bomb will be
built in the next four or five years).
Before Australian children born this
week have left school, China will be
able to challenge the free world on a
basis of nuclear parity.
China is not Australia’s only source
of anxiety. Indonesia has also an-
nounced its determination to have a
nuclear bomb, and it even claims, how-
ever implausibly, that it will have one
within a year. Although this is un-
likely, we cannot ignore the possibility
that a Communist Indonesia could
provide bases and hiding-places for
nuclear submarines that would domi-
nate the South-Western Pacific.
When faced with these possibilities,
some Australians have sheltered be-
hind the ideal of a nuclear-free zone
in South-East Asia. Yet this is already
a hopelessly lost cause, since all the
major powers involved have either op-
posed it or made it impossible: Rus-
sia’s nuclear submarines already patrol
in South-East Asian waters; China’s
nuclear weapons will be deployed in
South-East Asia; the British Govern-
ment has V-bombers designed to carry
nuclear weapons in Malaya; the
USA maintains a variety of nuclear
weapons in the region; and Indonesia
is working towards its own bomb.
None of these powers is going to aban-
don its policies in favor of a nuclear-
free zone, and, in any case, Australia
has welcomed a US radio communica-
tions base on its territory.
Rather than rely on utopias, Aus-
tralians have realistically tried to base
their security on a system of American,
British and Asian alliances. With each
passing month, however, doubts about
its reliability intensify. How long can
our Asian allies resist Communist
China? How long will Britain stay in
South-East Asia? Will America risk
its cities for Australia? These doubts
and others lead to the final question:
Has Australia any real alternative to
developing its own independent nuclear
deterrent? Supporters of this proposal
readily admit that an Australian
weapon could not conceivably smash
an adversary such as China, but they
claim that even if it were only strong
enough to “tear off an arm”, it could
possibly deter an enemy.
A rguments against this proposal are
many and strong. The weakest is
the argument that we do not have the
capacity to build an independent de-
terrent: according to Professor Titter-
ton, it would entail a capital works in-
vestment of £400m., annual expendi-
ture of £3om., and the efforts of about
1000 scientists and technicians a
massive programme, but within Aus-
tralia’s power. Stronger arguments,
including those put forward by US
Secretary of Defence Robert S.
McNamara, are that such a deterrent
would not onlv encourage other Asian
powers to build similar weapons but
could invite an enemy to make a pre-
emptive first strike against us.
In Mr McNamara’s words, in a
speech at Ann Arbor, Michigan, m
June, 1962: “Relatively weak national
nuclear forces with enemy cities as
their targets are not likely to be suf-
ficient to perform even the function
of deterrence. If they are small, and
perhaps vulnerable on the ground or
in the air, or inaccurate, a major
antagonist can take a variety of
measures to counter them. Indeed,
if a major antagonist came to believe
that there v/as a substantial likelihood
of it being used independently, this
force would be inviting a pre-emptive
first strike against it. In the event
of war, the use of such a force
against the cities of a major nuclear
power would be tantamount to suicide,
whereas its employment against signi-
ficant military targets would have a
negligible effect on the outcome of the
conflict. Meanwhile, the creation of a
single additional national nuclear force
encourages a proliferation of nuclear
powers with all of its attendant dan-
gers. In short, then, limited nuclear
capabilities, operating independently,
are dangerous, expensive, prone to ob-
solescence, and lacking in credibility
as a deterrent.”
In the end the arguments boil down
to one over the final reliability of the
US alliance, of US protection. However
strong this may be, there are at least
two conceivable situations where the
American alliance could fail us. One
is a Northern Hemisphere conflagra-
tion involving Russia, the United States
and Europe, leaving Australia unpro-
tected except by whatever weapons
we ourselves could supply. The second
is China’s becoming powerful enough
to blackmail the US into inaction while
it moves south. Many would argue
that these possibilities are so remote
that, when taken along with the dangers
of proliferation and provocation that
building an independent deterrent
would involve, there is no real justi-
fication for pursuing such a policy.
It is on these possibilities that the
coming debate will centre. There could,
however, be agreement on one thing:
Australia should at least put itself in
the position of being able, in an
extreme emergency, to manufacture
nuclear deterrents by proceeding now
to establish nuclear power plants in
Australia. These would be justified in
any circumstances, if we are not to be
totally left behind when the new
technologies prevail in the world. The
United Kingdom is the only country
which has already applied nuclear
energy on a large scale, but the United
States will probably overtake it in the
19605, and other countries will fol-
low suit. Australia must not be left on
a limb, and since nuclear plants take
about five years to construct, the first
step should be taken immediately.
This is one field where the initiative
will lie solely with the Federal Gov-
ernment.


THIS AUSTRALIA
WATERFRONT
The Showdown
Inevitable?
A confrontation between the Federal
Government and the Waterside Workers’
Federation over control of the Australian
waterfront now seems inevitable.
The overwhelming decision last week
by nearly 17,000 waterside workers in
ports throughout the country to by-pass
the Arbitration Commission in the
WWF’s demands for better pay and con-
ditions means that the present alarming
rate of stoppages must increase. Already
this financial year there have been more
By BRIAN JOHNS
than one million man-hours lost on the
waterfront more than 200,000 of
these over “political issues”.
In its present mood the WWF is un-
likely to be mollified by the Federal
Government's decision to appoint a
special investigator, whom The Bulle-
tin believes will be an eminent coun-
sel or judge, to inquire into means and
methods of reorganising the stevedoring
industry. The inquiry is expected to begin
in three or four weeks. The Govern-
ment hopes that it will be swift and has
decided to make it a one-man effort in
an attempt to avoid a repetition of the
last comprehensive review of the water-
front carried out by the Melbourne QC,
Mr J. B. Tait, which lasted some two
years, and on which there were rep-
resentatives of the unions and employers.
But the Government may well be
forced to go beyond establishing its in-
quiry. In the long history of waterfront
strife the Federal Government has always
backed off from a showdown with the
WWF, and, despite intermittent inquiries,
such as the Tait, has not faced up to
the fundamental difficulties of the
stevedoring industry: the casual nature
of employment on the waterfront and its
concomitant the extraordinary division
of “responsibility” for the employment
of men between the employers, the Aus-
tralian Stevedoring Authority, and the
WWF.
Last week’s resolution at the major
ports of Melbourne and Sydney—echoed
in other ports with the notable exception
of Adelaide, and the small Wallaroo,
Esperance and Sydney mechanical
branches were a foretaste of things to
come. The Sydney and Melbourne reso-
lutions attacking the Arbitration Com-
mission and employers over the WWF’s
industrial claims were buttressed by fur-
ther denunciations of the Government’s
sending of Australian troops to Vietnam.
It will be understandable if the WWF’s
industrial claims are obscured by 'alarm
at waterfront disruption over the Viet-
nam issue. Of the more than 200,000
man-hours lost so far this financial year
on political issues alone, 45,994 in-
cluded Vietnam as a point of protest.
The Stevedoring Industry Authority is
considering firmer action than its
order last week for the loss of
attendance money payments to wharfies
totalling some £125,000. Denial of attend-
ance money has proved particularly in-
effective in the current buoyant econo-
mic situation. The Authority is looking at
the Stevedoring and Arbitration Acts to
see if it has the power to deal with WWF
leaders an obviously explosive course.
However, Section 44 of the Stevedoring
Act and Section 138, which prohibit in-
dividuals from inciting or encouraging
workers to breach an award, suggests
that the Authority does have the power
available for extreme action.
IMPASSE : The WWF has left a limited
range of choices open to those wishing
to avert a final impasse. Faced with
the Federation’s determination, affirmed
by the Melbourne port, “to police the
policy of non co-operation,” the em-
ployers will not enter into direct negotia-
tions with the watersiders over their in-
dustrial claims; and the WWF has made
it clear that it will not accept Justice
Gallagher of the Arbitration Commis-
sion’s continued adjudication.
For the record, Judge Gallagher, as re-
cently as May 25, invited the WWF to
file an application for a complete review
of their current award now five years
old. This would have allowed full con-
sideration of the Federation’s industrial
claims. Judge Gallagher said also that
although it was doubtful that he had
jurisdiction over the claim for a non-
contributory pension fund, he would look
at it again and might be prepared to
make a recommendation.
These offers came as a result of reports
to the Arbitration Commission on the
breakdown of negotiations between the
"CHARLIE" FITZGIBBON...
WWF Federal Secretary


WWF and the Association of Employers
of Waterside Labor. The negotiations
were set in train after nationwide port
stoppages in mid-February, but a stale-
mate was reached after the WWF had
told the employers in the first week of
May that it wanted an immediate answer
on a non-contributory pensions scheme.
The employers had said they would
consider the scheme if, among other
things, the WWF would agree that there
should be weekly employment of water-
side workers under the direct employ of
individual stevedoring companies a de-
velopment which would legitimately cur-
tail the WWF's present massive power.
LAW
Abolishing Juries
The motor car and the reasonable man
In a rash of pseudonymous and
anonymous letters to the Press from
“Lex”, “Lex Sana”, “Bar”, “Plaintiff”,
etc., etc. the lines of debate have
now been firmly drawn over the proposal
of the new New South Wales Govern-
ment to bring NSW into line with all
other States, except Victoria, by abolish-
ing trial by jury in personal injury
claims arising out of motor vehicle
accidents.
The NSW Attorney-General, Mr K.
M. McCaw, supported by the solicitors’
Law Society and by the NRMA, has
claimed and his critics (including the
Bar Association, the Clerks’ Union and
the Ironworkers’ Association) deny that
the trial of motor accident cases by a
judge sitting alone will shorten the length
of trials and reduce costs. He also claims
and his critics also deny that it
will standardise the amount of damages
awarded, because a judge will be able to
refer to awards made in similar cases (it
is improper to put such information be-
fore a jury), and more cases will, there-
fore. be settled out of court by reference
to this unofficial scale of awards.
Under the existing system the jury de-
cides two questions. One is whether the
defendant is to be held liable for (he
plaintiff's injuries. If the answer is yes,
the other question is how much money is
to be awarded to the defendant to com-
pensate him for his loss.
In answering the first question
whether the defendant acted so carelessly
or unreasonably that he ought to be held
responsible for the accident the test
is that of the “reasonable man”. Did the
conduct of the defendant live up to that
expected of a “reasonable man” in the
same situation? Jury abolitionists claim
that a judge can apply this test as well
as a jury. Defenders of the jury system,
such as Mr J. D. Holmes, QC, claim
that a jury composed of a random collec-
tion of members of the general public is
far better equipped to apply the test, be-
cause judges tend to fit cases into pat-
terns, and to -relate them to earlier
decisions..
Abolitionists, including insurance com-
panies. also claim that juries are notor-
iously pro-plaintiff in motor-car accident
cases, since they know that an insurance
company, in fact, stands behind the de-
fendant. Judges, they say, would not be
influenced by this knowledge and would
apply the law strictly. Defenders of juries
concede this, but argue that it simply
means that ordinary members of the
public have judged the present law and
found it wanting. They have decided that
there should be recovery in these cases
even when there is no negligence and you
do not meet that criticism by abolishing
the jury. It would be more appropriate
to alter the basis upon which we com-
pensate road accident victims, by re-
moving these cases from the courts al-
together and instituting a compensation
-scheme which did not depend on a find-
ing of negligence.
As for the second function performed
by juries in negligence cases the as-
sessment of damages abolitionists
claim that a judge can make the relevant
calculations of actual financial loss as
well as a jury. The defenders claim that
this may be so, but that a jury is in a
far better position to place a value on
the other heads of damage: pain, suffer-
ing and loss of enjoyment of life. Juries
are in a far better position to express
those views than judges who, because
of their age, training and environment,
are not in a position to gauge general
community values.
Abolitionists also argue that jury
awards vary a good deal and that this
is undesirable. Defenders retort that they
vary because every case is different and
our present law requires us to treat each
individually; if we want standardised
sums to represent an eye, an arm, two
feet or three fingers, then let the Govern-
ment enact an official table of com-
pensation, rather than hand the problem
over to the judges who do not have any
special skill or aptitude for the task.
As for the abolitionist argument, put
strongly by Mr Justice Kinsella, that,
without juries, costs will be lower and
litigation faster, defenders of juries
claim that even if the hearings were
shorter, there will be more appeals from
the decisions of judges than from juries,
because judges give reasons for their
findings of fact and awards of damages
which can be freely attacked on appeal,
whereas juries never give reasons. A
judge’s award of damages can also be
attacked on the ground that it is out of
line with awards by other judges in
similar cases, which is not enough in
itself to overturn an award made by a
jury. In either case, cost and time will
not be reduced.
In this debate only one thing is clear
beyond a shadow of doubt: the abolition
of juries will mean a reduction in the
general level of damages awarded in
motor accident cases. This is easily
established by reference to the damage*
awarded by judges in States like WA
and SA as opposed to those awarded bv
juries in Victoria and NSW.
RELIGION
Jehovah’s Law?
“Abstain ye from blood”
Acts 15: 28-29: For it seemed good
to the Holy Ghost, and to us, to lay upon
you no greater burden than these neces-
sary things; That ye abstain from meats
offered to idols, and from blood, and
from things strangled, and from forni-
cation: from which if ye keep yourselves,
ye shall do well. Fare ye well.
With this scripture in mind a 24-year-
- old Adelaide mother and Jehovah's Wit-
By GORDON CHESTERMAN
ness, Mrs Avril Florence Stevens, died
last week after refusing a blood trans-
fusion during childbirth. For the Wit-
nesses, who are followers of the Pitts-
burghian Charles Taze Russell (a Con-
gregationalist until he started his “new-
old non-religion” around 1879), believe
that transfusions are “violations of God's
law”.
Legal authorities, however, have found
ways around this medical predicament.
In NSW, for example, the State Govern-
ment amended its Public Health Act on
April 19, 1960, empowering two doctors
to decide in an emergency whether
minors should have a transfusion. A year
later Tasmania followed with its Medi-
cal Act of 1961 which provided that
transfusions could be given to minors
when two or more doctors agreed over
the patient's condition, and that without
it the minor may die. This is also the
position in Victoria. But Western Aus-
tralia still has to invoke its cumbersome


machinery of Section 4 of the Child Wel-
fare Act. In this case a magistrate gener-
ally has to be rushed to the hospital to
declare the minor concerned a State
ward, whose mental, physical or moral
welfare was in jeopardy.
ASSAULT: Queensland has no law com-
pelling Witnesses to have transfusions.
According to a barrister in Queensland it
may be an assault if a Witness, or any
other person, is given a trans-
fusion against his will. (Technically,
transfusions could be given in the case
of an unconscious patient who previously
had said nothing about refusing a trans-
fusion. A spokesman for the Witnesses,
Mr John Wilson, the Australian branch
supervisor, told The Bulletin members
of the sect were not forbidden to have
blood transfusions. “This is purely a
personal decision,” he said. Mr Wilson
said his sect defended its stand against
transfusions in a statement issued five
years ago and circulated widely in Aus-
tralia. The statement criticised legisla-
tion which granted doctors powers to
give transfusions to minors without con-
sent. It said: “Forcing Jehovah’s Wit-
nesses to accept blood transfusions is like
forcing birth control on Catholics, Christ
on Jews, Sunday worship on Seventh Day
Adventists and popery on Anglicans.
No section of the community places a
higher value on life and the saving of
life than Jehovah’s Witnesses.”
There have in recent years been
several cases involving Witnesses:
• In 1960 Alvin Jehu was convicted
in Melbourne of manslaughter for re-
fusing to give his baby a transfusion.
Jehu was found guilty and released on
a good behavior bond for five years.
• In July, 1960, a baby girl who
when born had Rh negative blood and
needed an immediate change, was given
a transfusion despite the opposition of
her parents, Mr and Mrs M. Moulder of
Bulli. Doctors at the hospital lost three
precious hours unsuccessfully pleading
with the father before deciding to go
ahead with the transfusion.
• The same month in New Zealand a
jury awarded £6OOO sterling damages
and £2OOO special damages to a Jeho-
vah’s Witness, William Cook, who as the
result of an accident had part of his left
leg amputated. Counsel for Cook's em-
ployers, against whom the damages were
awarded, argued that Cook had refused
a blood transfusion after being told by
doctors it would be necessary.
• In August, 1961, a 17-year-old
Perth youth was rushed to hospital with
blood and air spurting from a bullet
wound in the chest. After telling doctors
he was a Witness and his parents refusing
permission for a transfusion, a magistrate
was rushed to the hospital and he de-
clared the boy a ward of the State. (This
is believed to be the first time the Child
Welfare Act had even been invoked in
West Australia.) Later, the youth said
he would rather be dead. His father
told a reporter at the time he loved his
son but refused the transfusion because
his son would not be resurrected when
paradise was regained on earth. If he
had agreed to the transfusion he “would
have been cut off in God's eyes”.
TEACHERS
The Dunce
“Peace” in the classrooom
The Communist-infiltrated Teachers’
Federation of New South Wales has been
quick to exploit Premier R. W. Askin’s
election promise to create an Education
Commission which will take State
teachers outside the control of the Public
Service Board.
Mr Askin specified that teachers would
have equal representation with Govern-
ment appointees under “an independent
chairman of proven capacity”. The
NSW Teachers’ Federation, with 28,000
members, is now demanding that it be
authorised to supply the two teacher ap-
pointees to the Commission. It is also
insisting that the chairman be acceptable
to the Federation as well as to the
Government.
Communist Party members occupy in-
fluential posts in the Federation hier-
archy the Federation president, Mr
S. P. Lewis, Mrs G. Phelan, the research
officer, and a number of Federation coun-
cillors. If the Government meets the
Federation demands for Commission rep-
resentation, it would find itself the dunce
of greatly strengthened CPA influence on
the whole teaching profession a Gil-
bertian position for a Liberal Govern-
ment and one which even its Labor
predecessors refused to tolerate.
This is a position at which the CPA
has long aimed. At the end of World
War II the Communist Party adopted
the slogan “New Deal for Education”.
In March, 1947, the “Communist Re-
view” asserted that Communists had to
organise “a broad movement around the
needs of the schools”. The direct task
was to link this with the Peace Move-
ment.
The CPA has since worked steadily
and successfully to direct the legitimate
aims and activities of teachers’ profes-
sional organisations, particularly the
NSW Teachers’ Federation, into its
united - front apparatus of p'eace and
cultural and friendship groups. The re-
sult has been that Mr W. E. Gollan, a
member of the CPA’s Central and Poli-
tical Committees and the party’s expert
on peace and education, wrote in
“Communist Review” of April, 1963:
“The work already done by the Teachers’
Federation, the parents’ organisations and
associated bodies, has already laid the
foundation of a very powerful mass
movement which will become increas-
ingly influential in national politics.”
The boldest move was the recommen-
dation last week by the Federations
Council for affiliation with the Associa-
tion for International Co-operation and
Disarmament organisers of last year’s
Communist-front Sydney Peace Congress.
Earlier this year in April the Fede-
ration’s senior vice-president, Miss E. M.
Mattick, attended a conference of
teachers in Algiers as a Federation rep-
resentative. This conference was called
by the World Federation of Teachers’
Unions, a department of the Communist-
controlled World Federation of Trade
Unions.
TRADE UNIONS
Labor’s Liberal
Breaking tradition
A leading Queensland Liberal Party
official has been selected as a delegate
to the ACTIJ Congress in Sydney in Sep-
tember.
The man, Mr Noel Wilson, a store
supervisor for an engineering firm, and
branch councillor for the central and
southern division of the Federated
Clerks’ Union in Queensland, is also a
member of the Liberal Party Federal
Council the policy-forming body —■
as well as a member of the State Liberal
Executive.
His appointment as a union delegate
to the ACTU Congress is believed to be
unique in Queensland’s industrial and
political history. Mr Wilson, 50, is least
surprised by his appointment. He said last
week: “I have no hesitation in meeting
the Communists on their home ground.
They should be shown up for what they
are.” Mr Wilson explained the steps
leading to his joining the Liberal Party
to The Bulletin.
STABILITY : “When I came out of the
Army I was looking for some sort of
stability in public life. Without any flag-
waving, I had seen enough overseas to
realise that we did not want that sort of
life in Australia, but we could not expect
the life we wanted to be handed to us on
a platter. I was not pledged to any par-
ticular political interests. However, I
could not buy the regimentation of the
ALP.”
Mr Wilson joined the Young Liberals


in 1949; in 1951 he became chairman of
the metropolitan zone, and in 1954 was
the Young Liberals' representative on the
party’s State Executive. From the floor
of the Convention he stood for the State
Liberal Executive and was elected in
1956. It was not until 1954 that he
started to take an active interest in trade
union affairs. In 1958 he was elected
vice-president of the general and com-
mercial section of the Clerks’ Union,
which has 12,000 members.
Of the ALP he said last week: “The
Liberal Party today has become the
Labor Party of yesterday. Trade unions
are not just the prerogative of the ALP.
The Liberal Party now represents the
working man’s point of view more than
the Labor Party, which is still living in
the 1850 s.” Sentiments like this seem
certain to make Mr Wilson a target for
Left-wing attack at the ACTU Congress.
The Left-wing Queensland TLC, alone,
will send 45 delegates to the Congress.
The Clerks’ Union, which is not affiliated
with the TLC, will send 15.
NAURU
Chiefly Happy
Canberra communique
“I am not a Frenchman,” Chief Ham-
mer Deßoburt told Canberra journalists
before answering the question why the
discussions on the future of Nauru had
dragged on for so long.
The Chief was referring to the mis-
spelling of his name —as de Roburt—in
a joint communique released by Ter-
ritories Minister C. E. Barnes (who took
no part in the talks), and the correction
was as near as he came to conflicting
with Australian officialdom in a 40-
minute talk about Nauru, the 2700
Nauruans, their money problems and
political advancement.
The “frank and cordial discussions”
revealed in last week’s official com-
munique had produced agreement on
establishment of a Legislative Coun-
cil, with an elected Nauruan majority
by the end of next year; an Executive
Council with “few, if any, limits on its
scope”, by the same time, and sub-
By JOHN WEBB
stantially higher phosphate royalty pay-
ments. The safeguards were obvious,
the Legislative Council’s ordinances
would be subject to disallowance by the
Governor-General, the Executive Coun-
cil’s voting arrangements would ensure
that the Administrator retained final
authority and the Australian authorities
had refused to accept a target date for
Nauruan independence.
Although the Nauruans insisted that
January 31, 1968, was a practicable
date for independence, the Australian
officials (who also represented co-ad-
ministrators Britain and New Zealand)
would only agree to talks on “further
political progress” in 1968.
More importantly from Chief De-
Roburt’s point of view, it was agreed
that next year’s discussions on the phos-
phate industry and royalties should in-
elude “some form of joint enterprise,
for example, a partnership or a
managerial arrangement”. Australia,
Britain and New Zealand are as unlikely
to meet the Nauruans’ demand that they
hand over the industry as they are to
agree to the proposal that they ship soil
to the island to rehabilitate worked-out
mining land. But the Chief was obviously
pleased with the progress he had made
and he was optimistic about increased
royalty payments next time round.
BUSINESS
The “Con-men”
Just a representative
A well-dressed and brief-cased gentle-
man introduces himself at the front door
as: “Not a salesman, but a representative
of a new company which would like us
to help it if we can.”
Once inside the door, this non-sales-
man explains to the family the manifold
virtues of his product and how it will
take the country by storm when released.
“But just for the moment we are not
selling it. We want to introduce it
quietly to a few lucky people and then
use their recommendations in our nation-
wide advertising campaign.”
The householder learns how fortunate
he is to be chosen as one of these “lucky
people”. All the company wants from
him is a letter (and sometimes, depend-
ing on the product, a photograph) in
which he says exactly what he thinks
of the product. If the householder will
promise to send this letter the company
will give him one of the products for
less than company cost.
“Yes, the company is prepared to lose
heavily in introducing itself to the Aus-
tralian market because it knows that the
letters of recommendation will be so
good that they will make the subsequent
advertising campaign sensational. We
don’t care how much we lose at first, so
long as we get your letter.”
The techniques for the “not a salesman
but a company representative” have been
studied by members of the Chatham
branch of the Victorian Liberal Party.
They intend to ask the next State
Council meeting to recommend that the
State Government investigate “shady”
sales techniques and legislate against
them. The president of the Chatham Lib-
eral Party branch, Mr Philip Lynch, told
The Bulletin this week that he knew
of a number of cases where people had
been tricked into paying exorbitant prices
for goods and services by a salesman
posing as a company representative and
pretending that he was offering some-
thing way below company cost. “Some
of these door-knockers are expert con-
fidence-men and frauds. Many people,
especially women, lack the business ex-
perience to see through their cunning
methods.”
HEALTH
Fee Highjump
“The intermediate ward system ”
A jump in fees last week was the first
clue that the Tasmanian Government
was contemplating a reorganisation of
the State’s public hospitals.
The Minister for Health, Mr M. G.
Everett, hinted at changes when he
announced in Hobart that public hospital
fees would be lifted —children went up
30s. a day—to £2B a week throughout
the State.
The leader of the Opposition, Mr
Angus Bethune, and Senator R. J. D.
Turnbull jumped on this. Both said that
Tasmania should immediately adopt the
intermediate ward system of other States.
Mr Bethune said that the intermediate
system would fill empty public hospital
beds, help the finances, and bring doctors
to country areas where there were no
private hospitals. Senator Turnbull, a
former Labor Minister for Health, claim-
ed that the income from intermediate
beds would be “more than enough to
meet rising costs without a rise in public
bed fees”.
OPPORTUNISM: Mr Everett said
this was “political opportunism”. The
Government, he said, had always opposed
private and intermediate wards with any
differentiation in treatment. It seems that
the Government is planning intermediate
beds which will differ from public beds
only in that their occupants will pay
more for them and pay the doctor
as well.
The AMA is lukewarm and patients
are unlikely to be more enthusiastic.
About 80 per cent of Tasmanians are
covered by hospital benefits insurance.
Presumably those with a strong prefer-
ence for their own practitioners will con-
tinue to go to the scarcely more expensive
private hospitals where available.


AROUND MELBOURNE
The Punter and the Crematorium
"Sandow n-the only new racecourse this century ”
Victorian Amateur Turf Club
A has been devilishly cunning, the
long-awaited first meeting at the San-
down Racetrack takes place this Satur-
day. This is the one Saturday of the
season when there is no regular round
of football. Victoria will be playing
South Australia at the MCG, and even
seasoned race-goers know that Mel-
burnians detest interstate football. So,
you see, here’s a chance of inviting
150,000 lonely, frustrated people to
go out to Sandown. All the week we
have been getting these scatter plugs
on the radio: “Come to Sandown
Park, the only new racecourse this
century.”
On Sunday, June 6, there was an
invitation to all newspaper folk and
all VATC members to go to view, to
inspect and even watch a couple of
mock races on the track. So it was
with some excitement that we motored
out to Sandown. Ah, this was like
Longchamps, France . . . Melbourne’s
first race meeting on a Sunday. Oddly
enough, a great number of people had
the same idea. The parking area for
12,000 cars was jammed. One fine,
old Flemington habitue was coming
out the gate; “Typical VATC crowd,”
he said. “All over-dressed. AH the
nouveau riche enjoying their Sunday
outing.”
But the first view of the T. S. Car-
lyOn grandstand is superb. It is black
and white with the butterfly roof and
a great cantilever stretching right out
like the hat of Mavis Bramston. The
stand is named after Tom Carlyon,
vice-chairman of the VATC, and
former president of the Melbourne
Racing Club. One time you had to die
to get your name on a grandstand but
now they’ve smartened things up con-
siderably.
The comforts are extraordinary, the
sort of thing one Sees only at courses
like Hollywood Park in the US. There
are 65 TV sets scattered around the
ground in bars, restaurants above tote
windows, and not only do they follow
the race, but they give scratchings,
winning margins, times and tote divi-
dends. The closed-circuit is being run
by Crawford Productions. So one
could say that Hector Crawford, who
disappointingly missed out on the
Channel 0 licence, at least has one TV
outlet. And there’s another interesting
angle. It is remarkable to observe how
few people take binoculars to the
races. Now, with TV in the bars,
many a race-goer, for the first time,
will see a horse.
Along the front of the grandstand
there is a series of bars, restaurants and
such, all with plate-glass windows. At
Sandown at no stage does one ever
have to go out in the horrid cold to
look at the races. The Casino Room,
for example, has a champagne bar
plus the tote windows. You can bet on
one side of the room, drink on the
other, and, if you care, look out the
window to see how the horses are
faring. Public and members can hire
the 131 reserve boxes in front of the
Harlequin Room. This is the paddock
dining-room where race-goers also can
eat and watch the races at the same
time.
Of maybe you would like the Ascot
Room. The carpet is golden sand, the
walls are covered in hand-printed
imitation silk, the tables are teak, and
the chairs even have the solid Mer-
cedes-Benzian look in black leather.
Just so that we could get the right
picture, financially, on Sunday the
silver was all out for the production of
crepes suzettes and the silver ice-buck-
ets carried unopened bottles of cham-
pagne, Moet plus Chandon, Dry Im-
perial 1955. The connoisseurs say that
the course will be extremely testing.
The straight is two furlongs long and
slightly uphill.
But you should drop a tear of sym-
pathy for the bookies: all that eating,
viewing and betting inside. If you
want to bet with the bookies you’ll
have to go outside and right now the
bookies haven’t even the protection of
some trees.
Everything is beautiful and lush,
except .for one thing. For the past
three years Sandown has been used
for car racing and you get this dread-
ful outlook of advertising hoardings
. . . things like Lukey Corner, Dunlop
Bridge.
The tote indicator board in front
of the stand tells- us to buy BP and
there are all sorts of other boards
eulogising Peters Ice Cream, Repco,
Bill Patterson Holdens and so on.
But, as pointed out earlier, there’s no
need to look at the track, you can
always look the other way.
The interesting point is that Mel-
bourne has no need whatever for a
new racetrack. Already we have three:
Flemington, Moonee Valley and Caul-
field. Apart from the major spring
carnival meetings they average only
25,000. Sandown came into being be-
cause the Melbourne Racing Club had
no track of its own and agitation for
Sandown started back in 1948. The
cost and the credit squeeze became
such an agony that the project was
deeply suffering until merger with the
Victorian Amateur Turf Club, which
controls Caulfield.
Of course, the VRC was terribly
upset. Don’t you see, the VRC has
16 meetings, Moonee Valley 15, but
the VATC with its two tracks now
gets 29 and the major carve-up from
the TAB. The situation is indeed most
interesting. For the past year there
has been much talk that as a retalia-
tory measure there could be a merger
between the VRC and the Moonee
Valley Race Club. Particularly as
Moonee Valley has been in danger of
being taken for the Housing Commis-
sion or even a freeway.
But people forget that Moonee Val-
ley is a family club, a club full of
pride—and there’s not much love lost
between the two. There has been a
W. S. Cox at Moonee Valley ever
since 1881 and it has taken care to
reserve land for any future track at
Broadmeadows. It is hard to see an-
other merger at this stage. The VRC
will need to do some hard thinking.
Apart from the big meetings the great
and beautiful Flemington is not draw-
ing crowds as large as those at Caul-
field or Moonee Valley.
But Sandown, you see, is in a large
and rapidly growing new area. Like St
Kilda at Moorabbin it could attract a
new crowd. Furthermore, for the
punter it has the togetherness of being
right opposite the Springvale Crema-
torium.
BATMAN


How did he do it?
He arrived in Melbourne at 9.00 a.m.
Jrt*.
v *. :■ *
■
He made six calls in different suburbs.
I
He drove across town to hend office*
r
m
He went out to the new plant.
m
' ?..'v
w\
A
He detoured to visit friends —still made it to the hotel by 7.00 p.m. for dinner!
Avis was waiting for him!
Going interstate? Arrange for Avis to meet you
on arrival with a new Ford Falcon.
When business takes you interstate, it’s good business
to have an Avis Falcon waiting for you at the airport or
railway station. That way you get more done —with less
strain. Within a few moments of arrival, you’re on
your way in a sleek, solid Avis Falcon. An Avis
Falcon always comes to you in peak condition — tA
clean, shining and with the petrol tank full to the brim.
It’s yours to use as your own, for as long as you like. And
all the while, you and the car are protected by proper
insurance. Repeat—proper insurance. When next you
travel interstate, arrange for an Avis Rent a Car to meet you
on arrival. Book your Avis car with your travel ticket, or ask
your air hostess in flight, your train conductor, or enquire
at the reception desk on arrival.
■
y *‘**T'
was
WWW
r«
-
AVIS
RENTA CAR
For a day , a week t or all the time .
AF3B7




A BULLETIN SYMPOSIUM
AN AUSTRALIAN BOMB?
Participants: Professor E. W. Titterton, B. A. Santamaria and Professor Henry S. Albinski
CHINA
Page
THE CRISIS: China's Bomb 20
Indonesia's Capacify 21
A LOST CAUSE: A Nuclear-Free Zone .... 23
THE COMING DEBATE: Independent Deterrent ... 25
A case for, page 25; A case against, page 26.
In 20 years China will he able to challenge
America and Russia on a basis of nuclear parity
FJtHE achievement by the Red Chinese of a nuclear capability, the statement by
Indonesia that she intends to acquire nuclear weapons and the belligerent attitude
of both countries, coupled with their increasing alignment, have changed the whole
military situation in South-East Asia. These developments are of the greatest
importance to Australia, for they presage, for the first time since the last war, a real
threat against this country. It is therefore necessary to assess the developing situation
and see what it means for us.
Let us examine the Chinese position.
There is growing evidence that, in the
West, we have underestimated the
abilities of the Peking Government.
When the Communists took over some
16 years ago the economy was a
shambles, inflation was rampant, famine
endemic and industrial and primary pro-
duction at a low ebb. The first five-year
plan, based on the Russian model and
greatly helped from Moscow, was in-
tended to correct the situation and was
in fact, very successful. The output of
steel trebled; coal, electricity and
cement production were doubled and
a heavy industrial complex was begun
which today is turning out machine tools,
heavy motor vehicles, aircraft, ships and
even some submarines. Conditions for
the’ people were considerably improved
and a sense of national purpose estab-
lished, which had a big effect on morale.
The second five-year plan, begun in
1958, was marked by a relaxation of
central control from Peking the 22
provinces were given responsibility for
light industry—especially the so-called
cottage industries. At this stage Peking,
impressed by its own successes, estab-
lished rather unrealistic targets and
brought into operation the controversial
commune system. In technology the
emphasis was on bright young men going
to Moscow, the importation of technical
experts from Russia to work with am-
bitious young Chinese and big injections
of funds and equipment into science and
engineering inside China. It was prob-
ably at this stage that the plan to pro-
duce nuclear weapons was adopted.
Targets in the second five-year plan—
the great Leap Forward—were too high
and were not achieved. A succession of
bad seasons produced food problems,
Soviet aid was stopped and Soviet tech-
nicians went home.
We were told that China was on the
verge of starvation and the economy
about to collapse. But this appears to
have been wishful thinking. In fact,
China bought wheat from Australia and
Canada and paid for it without default.
Moreover, it is far from clear whether
Moscow withdrew its technological help
voluntarily or whether Peking decided
to dispense with it. It does not appear to
have retarded the Chinese economy as
severely as we were led to believe. Late
in 1964 the Chinese Academy of Science
invited the Australian Academy to send
four of its Fellows to visit Chinese
scientific laboratories and industrial
establishments. The Australian group,
headed by Sir Thomas Cherry, a mathe-
matician, included a physicist, a geologist
and an agricultural scientist. They
travelled extensively in China and were
greatly impressed by what they saw.
They visited large industrial plants,
factories making the most sophisticated
electronic devices, such as transistors,
and noted the enthusiasm with which
science and technology were being taught
E. W. TITTERTON, Professor of Nuclear
Physics at the Australian National Univer-
sity, is the author of these assessments of
the nuclear capacity of China and Indo-
nesia and of the criticism of the nuclear-
free zone policy.
on a huge scale. Moreover, they visited
communes and received the impression
that this system was working well.
Indeed the Chinese people appeared to
be well fed and clothed, working hard
with a great sense of - purpose, and
solidly behind the Peking Government.
During April and May this year four
Chinese academicians were brought to
Australia at the invitation of the Aus-
tralian Academy of Science on a return
visit. It was significant that the delega-
tion did not include a physicist—these
people are too important to the nuclear
weapons project to be allowed time for
tripping overseas. They stated that
their Government provided unlimited
funds for science and engineering and
that the bottleneck was not money but
skilled technologists to use it. They
indicated that a huge educational pro-
gramme has been developed to provide
the physicists, engineers, chemists and
mathematicians.
The evidence, then, is clear. The
Peking Government is firmly in control
of the nation, the economy is viable and
industrialisation advancing at a very high
rate. If we are going to cope with a
militarily powerful China we must not
listen to those who suggest that famine,
economic failure or internal revolution
will do the job for us. The firing of the
first Chinese nuclear bomb in October,
1964, followed quickly by a second test
in May, 1965, must surely have shattered
any complacency which may have re-
mained.
Let us now try to assess China’s
potential to become a major nuclear
power. Samples of radioactive material,
taken from the cloud from the first test
as this drifted round the world, showed
the weapon to be a U-235 bomb with
an explosive power between 10 and 15
kilotons of TNT equivalent. This was
a surprise to most Western scientists.
It had been expected that China’s first
bomb would be made from an alternative
explosive material plutonium suf-
ficient of which, over a long period of
time, can be grown in a comparatively
small power reactor. It was known that
China had acquired such a reactor from
the Soviet Union and the simplest and
cheapest way of attaining a first bomb
would have been to use it to make
plutonium. The discovery that the bomb
was U-235 and not plutonium was not
only a surprise, but also a shock for it
meant three things:
First, to effect large-scale separation
of U-235 from natural uranium (in which
it occurs to the extent of only one part
in 140), is a major technological achieve-
ment. It is now believed to have been
done using a diffusion method well
known in the West, but which demands
a large and sophisticated plant extending
over many acres and consuming vast
quantities of electrical power. If any
demonstration of technical know-how
and industrial achievement was neces-
sary this is it. Secondly, possession of
such a plant means that there will be a
continuing and increasing supply of core
material for fission bombs ranging in
size up to some 200 kilotons. In short,
this plant alone will ensure that, in the
fullness of time, the Chinese can estab-
lish a stockpile of fission bombs. And
thirdly, and perhaps most important,
possession of U-235 makes it possible
to build advanced types of nuclear
reactors which can be used in two ways.
One is to produce the alternative fission
bomb material, plutonium, on a large
scale and the other is to produce the
radioactive form of hydrogen, called
tritium, which is known to be an im-
portant material, at least in the early
stages of hydrogen-bomb development.
Sampling of the cloud from the second
Chinese bomb, therefore, became of
great interest. Would it be a plutonium
or a U-235 bomb? Already the satellite-
spies-in-the-sky had photographed a tall
steel tower erected at the Chinese test
site, so it was expected that the bomb
would be fired on that. In the event, it
turned out that the explosion was again
a U-225 weapon, fired in the air, but
with a somewhat greater explosive power
than the first—equivalent to 20 kilotons
of TNT. Now, what can we deduce from
that? Unfortunately not much. Coming
so soon after the first bomb it confirms
that the Chinese have access to consider-
able supplies of U-235. It may mean
that the technology of plutonium pro-
duction has not yet been mastered, or
it may mean that reactor capacity is
still too small for significant plutonium
production. In fact, although there have
been rumors of other reactors, only the
original Russian one is definitely known
to be in operation. But it could also
mean that whatever reactor capacity is
available has already been devoted to
the production of tritium with a view to
testing a hydrogen weapon as soon as
possible. This would certainly bring
enormous prestige to China and might,
for that reason alone, be considered as
a high priority project.
What we can expect now is that the
Chinese will embark on a methodical
nuclear weapons test-programme similar
to those conducted by the other nuclear
nations. This programme will be aimed
at improving the first rudimentary
devices in efficiency, engineering them
for military use, wedding them to
delivery vehicles —bombs for aircraft or
warheads for missiles, and so on. The
rate at which this programme develops
will tell us much about Chinese capacity
for establishing a stockpile. And the
radioactive clouds which come from their
test sites will allow us to keep tabs on
the development of their bomb tech-
nology, tell us when plutonium is first
used and when the first megaton bomb
is fired.
China has become a nuclear power,
and there can be no doubt that within
the decade she will have at her disposal
some effective nuclear armaments. This
is a matter of the greatest importance,
not only for her immediate neighbors,
but also for the Western Alliance and
for the USSR. The threat is there, but
it should not be exaggerated. We can
expect that China has set herself the
target of producing the whole spectrum of
nuclear weapons. This requires a
formidable investment of money, man-
power and industrial resources. The
weapons themselves are useless without
appropriate delivery vehicles and that
programme, too, will have to be
developed side by side, and in competi-
tion for technical resources, with
nuclear bomb production.
It will be two decades or so before
China could expect to seriously chal-
lenge the Western Alliance, or Russia,
in the field on a nuclear parity basis.
By then we may hope that close
acquaintance with nuclear weapons and
their effects will convince Peking, as it
did Moscow before them, that nuclear
warfare is not a possible solution to
international disagreements.
INDONESIA
An Indonesian bomb is many years
away but nuclear submarines there
would dominate the S-W Pacific
AN Indonesian Army spokesman, Brigadier Hartono, has on two occasions claimed
that within a year his country will have a nuclear bomb. Bearing in mind that
Indonesia is our nearest neighbor, that we share a common border with her in New
Guinea and that she is currently indulging in acts of aggression in the confrontation
programme against a fellow member of the Commonwealth Malaysia —it is of
importance to determine the credibility of Brigadier Hartono’s claim.
We first, then, ask the question
whether Indonesia could make nuclear
bombs for herself. The short answer to
this has to be yes. Any military dictator,
bent on self-aggrandisement, can, if he
chooses, ignore the poverty of his people
and pour out' vast sums of money for
the necessary nuclear installations to
produce weapons material and, eventu-
ally, bombs. But the answer to the
question whether Indonesia could do
this, on her own, within one year is
quite definitely no.
To cope with the problems arising,


i
Freight goes fastest by
»mm»ssk
Anything anywhere 24 hours a day,
7 days a week, every week.
ROUND THE CLOCK ANYWHERE TO ANYWHERE
ANSETT-ANA A MEMBER COMPANY OF ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
112)
any nation embarking on such a project
would require an extensive industrial
base, a large, highly qualified group of
physicists, metallurgists, chemists, en-
gineers working closely together and a
very substantial financial investment. As
we saw, in discussing the Chinese case,
they have organised all these things.
The Chinese economy is viable, its people
are hardworking and devoted to the
cause; education, especially in science
and technology, is receiving high priority
and industrialisation has proceeded to
the point where, not only is China in-
dependent of outside help, but is able
to produce all her own armaments and
begin to supply other Communist groups
within her sphere of influence, too.
The Indonesian position, by compari-
son, is almost the opposite of this. Since
the departure of the Dutch, the Indo-
nesian economy has been slowly going
down hill and is now in a desperate con-
dition. Food is scarce and the population
divided amongst themselves. Java is
regarded with suspicion, especially by
Sumatra, and there has already been one
attempted civil war. The climate is
enervating, disease rampant and the
population ill-organised as a work force.
Industrial development has been slow
and technological advancement almost
negligible. The universities are poorly
staffed and lack modern scientific equip-
ment. Indonesia, until recently, sought
all the outside aid it could get. It
played off East against West and took
substantial aid from Russia and the
USA as well as from other countries,
including Australia. In the last few
years Indonesian policies have hardened
against the West and she has taken
more and more aid from Russia in the
form of arms jet bombers, warships
and so on. At first this equipment was
intended for use against Dutch New
Guinea but now it is turned against
Malaysia. Many observers believe that
these -hostilities are kept up in order to
divert the population’s attention from
internal difficulties, but others believe
that Indonesia intends to annex the
Borneo Territories and Portuguese Timor
if she can. This large military expendi-
ture, maintained over a number of years
by the Sukarno Government, has
seriously delayed the development of
the country. The industrial and tech-
nological base of the economy is in-
sufficiently robust to allow a crash pro-
gramme of nuclear weapon production
to be undertaken successfully.
Some investment in nuclear projects
has, however, been made. Thus, in 1964,
Indonesia’s first nuclear reactor was
brought into operation. It was obtained
from the USA under the aid programme
and is a commercially available US re-
actor known as a TRIGA Mark 11.
It is too small to make sufficient
plutonium for even one bomb within a
period of a year and moreover it is usual
for the US Government to impose the
condition that the fuel elements, in
which the plutonium is produced, and
remains, be returned to the USA for
processing, otherwise replacement fuel
is not made available. There is no reason
to believe that this condition has been
waived in the present case. Even if the
agreement were broken, to remove and
refine plutonium from the highly radio-
active fuel elements is a difficult business
beyond present Indonesian capabilities
without external aid. There are sugges-
tions that Indonesia will acquire a bigger
reactor from the Soviet Union, but even
with this the production of weapons
grade plutonium would be slow. Thus,
if Indonesia has to attempt to make
nuclear bombs unaided it will take many,
many years. That being so, the question
arises could Indonesia persuade Moscow
or Peking to make nuclear bombs or
core materials available to her? The
Russians certainly have large stockpiles
of bombs and considerable quantities of
fissile material available. But they were
not prepared to give either of these to
the Red Chinese. Indeed the Kremlin
shares the views of London and Wash-
ington on the dangers of the spread of
nuclear weapons to many countries
especially aggressive and irresponsible
ones. In fact, the Big Three, within their
respective spheres of influence, have done
all they can to discourage smaller nations
from embarking on nuclear weapon pro-
jects of their own.
Moscow may well feel it to be worth-
while to supply Indonesia with conven-
tional arms for the nuisance value that
this can be to the Western alliance —the
fomentation of trouble behind the lines
of the Vietnam war. But Russia will cer-
tainly not aid Indonesia’s nuclear aspira-
tions. What about Red China? Here
the situation is different. The Chinese
do not, as yet, have militarily useful
nuclear weapons; nor is there a substan-
tial stockpile of weapons grade fissile
material available. It is difficult to believe
therefore that Peking would help
Djakarta substantially at this early stage
of its nuclear weapon programme. More-
over China is the only Asian country
with nuclear weapons and this is a
position of prestige which Peking is un-
likely to wish to change by giving away
hard-won know-how.
The reasonable assessment, therefore,
would seem to be that Indonesia cannot
quickly produce nuclear weapons for
herself, and that it is most unlikely
that her Communist friends will give
them to her. In short an Indonesian
bomb is many years away.
Does this mean we can cease to worry
about Indonesia? Far from it. In the
major change of the power balance in
the Pacific which is now under way Indo-


nesia will play an increasingly important
role. The militaristic policies of Sukarno
are draining the economy dry and famine
and chronic inflation are providing the
conditions for a Communist takeover.
Until very recently the Indonesian Com-
munist Party (the PKI), the biggest out-
side Russia and China, has proceeded
with patience and caution. But it has
slowly forced the Government into anti-
Western attitudes and is daily achieving
more influence. For some years Dr
Subandrio’s journeyings abroad centred
mainly on Moscow but now he is turning
his attention more and more to Peking.
And Dr Sukarno is known to be a sick
man. When he goes, what then? The
most likely possibility is that the Com-
munists will attempt to take control of
the Government. They can certainly
expect to get every help and encourage-
ment from Russia and China if they do.
For Indonesia, with its chain of islands
stretching some 3500 miles from the Bay
of Bengal across the very mouth of
Singapore’s harbor right to Australian
New Guinea, would be the ideal Com-
munist base to dominate the South-
Western Pacific. If the much smaller
Cuba, lying so close to the USA, was
considered worthwhile by Moscow as
a Communist bastion in the Western
Atlantic, how much more important Indo-
nesia would be? For here would be a
base overlooking supply lines from both
the UK and the USA, and cutting off
Australia from South-East Asia. The
islands would make ideal hiding places
for nuclear submarines patrolling in the
area. Moreover a Communist takeover
of Indonesia would greatly enhance the
chances of success of a Communist
thrust into South-East Asia Burma,
Thailand, Cambodia and perhaps even
Malaysia—which is now believed to be
a major objective of Peking.
This is not a pleasant prospect from
the Australian point of view. If the USA
with her overwhelming military capability
regarded Cuba as a sufficient threat to
warrant a major showdown with Russia,
should not we, in Australia, be viewing
the developing Indonesian situation with
increasing concern?
LOST CAUSE
It is already too late to talk
about making South-East Asia
into a nuclear-free zone
TkJI UCH as we may dislike the idea of nuclear weapons, we have to learn to live with
them. There is no possibility of wishing them away and, indeed, if our policies
are right, these weapons can benefit all mankind by ensuring that there will never
be another world war. Nuclear weapons have made world wars obsolete for sane men.
Looked at from that point of view, the thesis of this article is that a nuclear-free
zone in South-East Asia is neither possible nor desirable.
First let me explain why I believe a
nuclear-free zone in the area is not
possible. Clearly it could not be imposed
by Australia alone even if we wished it.
Many nations would be concerned; there
would be great conflicts of interest and
the chances of agreement would be slight.
There are a number of very important
factors quite outside Australia’s control
which operate against a nuclear-free
zone. These are:
(1) The achievement by the Red
Chinese of a nuclear weapon capability.
Although it will still be some years before
Peking has a substantial nuclear striking
force, China shows all the signs of
developing one as fast as she can. And,
without doubt, this strike force, when
developed, will be deployed in the area.
Few countries, as yet, recognise the
Peking Government, nor has Red China
been admitted to the UN. It is therefore
difficult to bring diplomatic pressures to
bear on Peking and, at this stage, agree-
ment with her is most unlikely.
(2) An Indonesian military spokesman,
Brigadier Hartono, has stated on two
occasions that his country intends to
acquire nuclear bombs in the near
future. Although this has been played
down both by President Sukarno and
Dr Subandrio, neither has denied it.
Prudence dictates that we should accept
the statement at its face value. Although
most Western nations have diplomatic
missions in the country, Indonesia has
publicly withdrawn from the UN and
openly flouts UN policies—for example,
the aggression against Malaysia and the
abrogation of the agreement for a
plebiscite in Dutch New Guinea (West
Irian).
(3) The new British Government has
reaffirmed the UK intention of main-
taining her far eastern bases in Malaya.
Britain has made it clear that she will
defend Malaysia against attack and has
stationed large land, sea and air forces
there to implement this. V-bombers
assigned to the area are, of course,
designed to carry nuclear weapons.
(4) The USA is now actively engaged
in the war to prevent a Communist Viet-
cong takeover of South Vietnam. US
nuclear-powered surface vessels and
Polaris submarines, equipped with mis-
siles fitted with nuclear warheads, patrol
in the general area both in the Pacific
and Indian Oceans. The USA also main-
tains strategic air command bases to
cover the area—for example, Clark Field
in the Philippines and the aircraft
concerned, like the British V-bombers,
are intended to carry nuclear bombs.
(5) Britain and the USA have recently
completed an agreement to establish
bases on certain islands in the Indian
Ocean which will provide further cover-
age in the area.
(6) Russia now has a very large sub-
marine fleet some of which is nuclear
powered. It is known that at least part
of this force is equipped to fire missiles
carrying nuclear -warheads. The most
recent additions to this fleet are believed
to be fully equivalent to the US Polaris
submarines. These vessels enter and
leave the oceans of South-East Asia at
will. Furthermore, if Moscow ever
wished to intervene with a nuclear
attack against targets in the area she
could do so —using intercontinental bal-
listic missiles fired from her own terri-
tory.
This catalogue of other-nation com-
mitments and capabilities within the area
already shows that it is too late to talk
about making it a nuclear-free zone.
But, in addition to this, Australia, too,
has interests, commitments and policies


The great
Oriental hotel
in Hong Kong
is a member of
INTERCOHTINEHTHL
Where else will you
be served as an
Oriental potentate
and still pay as
little as $ll for a
room with a balcony?
Our Sikh welcomes you to the
most fabulous hotel in Hong
Kong’s history . . . Oriental
garden and swimming pool, air-
conditioning, cruises of the har-
bour on a private junk, and the
perfect location on Hong Kong
island, overlooking the harbour.
THE MANDARIN
T. A. P. Ross, General Manager.
One of the 28 incomparable Intercontinental
Hotels. Call your Travel Agent or Inter-
continental.
(fjatjclarit)
MEMBER OF INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS
relating to the regions. The Australian
Government has made it quite clear that
it is opposed to the idea of a nuclear-
free zone in the area. Sir Garfield Bar-
wick, during his term of office as
Minister for External Affairs, indicated
that Australia would reserve the right
of complete freedom of action in
relation to nuclear armaments.
Should it be deemed necessary, we
could provide bases for our British and
American allies, store nuclear weapons
on our soil or even manufacture them
for ourselves. Sir Garfield’s statement,
in fact, enunciated a policy which had
been in effect for some time.
Thus, in Australia, we had provided
test sites for the development of British
nuclear bombs—first at the Monte Bello
Islands, then at Emu Plains (Woomera
Range) and finally at the specially
designed range at Maralinga.
The Australian contribution to the
development of British tactical nuclear
weapons was quite considerable. Since
then we have played host for a number
of visits of US nuclear-powered sub-
marines as well as for surface ships,
notably the USS Enterprise —the biggest
nuclear - powered aircraft - carrier in the
world. Press reports at the time suggested
that these ships carried nuclear weapons
as part of their armament. And finally
there is building at present the long-wave,
long-range radio communications centre
in Australia at Northwest Cape, WA.
The Federal Government made the site
for this station available to the USA in
the full knowledge that it would be one
of the channels through which signals
and commands could go out to Polaris
submarines operating in the surrounding
oceans.
The Australian position in the issue
is therefore clear and unambiguous. It
says that, from the Australian point of
view, a nuclear-free zone in South-East
Asia is undesirable. I accept this for the
second part of my thesis and I believe it
to be correct. Australia has no aggres-
sive intentions towards anyone and de-
fence policy can therefore be based on
(1) an assessment of who might be likely
to attack us and when, and (2) the claims
on us against our obligations as a mem-
ber of SEATO, ANZUS and ANZAM.
Until comparatively recently there was
no credible threat against Australia
directly and our defence arrangements
could be simple and relatively inexpen-
sive. We had few overseas’ commitments
though we took our share in the Korean
operation and our forces acquitted them-
selves well. But over the last few years
the situation has changed quite markedly.
China has become more belligerent, there
was the attack on Tibet and the adven-
ture against India. The war in Vietnam
has intensified and Communism is on
the march in South-East Asia. Indonesia
has moved further away from the West
and increasingly into the Communist
camp. She has bought large quantities
of arms, among them jet bombers,
modern warships and submarines from
the Soviet Union, and is now openly talk-
ing about nuclear armaments. On top
of this there is the fact of the two Red
Chinese nuclear bomb tests and the clear
evidence that China intends to become
the major power in the area.
With such war clouds clearly discern-
ible on the horizon Australian defence
policy had to change to meet the new
situation. And, as everyone knows, we
are now involved in a build-up of men
and armaments. But although we must
play our part in full in relation to our
resources of manpower and wealth it
is obvious that we alone, a nation of 11
million people, are not going to balance
the weight of 700 million or so Chinese
and some 100 million Indonesians. Nor
is it necessary for us to do so since our
two powerful allies the UK and the
USA—are every bit as interested as we
are in the power-balance of the South-
East Asian complex and the struggle
against Communism. We therefore still
shelter under the umbrellas of British
and American military capability. In
the immediate South-East Asian area the
UK carries the main burden of defending
Malaysia against Indonesian aggression;
the US carries the burden of protecting
South Vietnam from Communist take-
over. Some time ago we sent troops to
join British forces in Malaysia and,
recently, Australian troops went to
South Vietnam to help there. In making
these moves we have shown that we
are willing to stand with our two major
allies in operations in our immediate
vicinity and have demonstrated that we
believe these operations to be vitally
important for us. We can scarcely expect
Britain and the USA to underwrite our
defence unless we are prepared to play
our part. And .in accepting that as an
honorable and proper Australian defence
role we have always to remember that
both are nuclear powers. This implies
that should the day ever come when
either, or both, needed to deploy nuclear
weapons in our defence or in defence of
another Commonwealth nation or ally
we should have to help in whatever way
we could including the use of Aus-
tralian soil as a base for operations.
This, I believe, is the major reason
why it is not in Australia’s interest to
subscribe to the idea of a nuclear-free
South-East Asian zone.


The great
Indonesian hotel
in Djakarta
is an
IHTERCOHTINEHT/tL
Where else will your
client be charmed by
reflecting pools, batiks,
Balinese gardens and
dancers and still
pay as little as $lO
for a room with a
balcony?
'tr s A
sj?*. JSk
i *3T£
«
SS!
a
-V.
W 4
m
Indonesia’s tallest building and
largest hotel has all the comforts
of an Intercontinental hotel (pri-
vate balconies, continental
cuisine, swimming pool, air-con-
ditioning) and all the charm of
Indonesia (grand festive hall,
Spice Islands cuisine, and South
Sea rates).
HOTEL INDONESIA.
R. Kane Rufe, General Manager.
One of the 29 incomparable Intercontinental
Hotels. Call your Travel Agent or Inter-
continental.
HOTEL
6VBSW
tvesia^
AN INTERCONTINENTAL HOTEL
A CASE FOR:
When China can devastate
America, the US would not
automatically risk its cities
to ensure our security.
/COMMUNIST CHINA has now manufactured her own nuclear weapons. This fact
faces Australia with awful dilemmas which will not vanish simply because
they are not confronted. One does not buy popularity by urging Australians to
consider the argument for the acquisition of nuclear weapons. But popularity is
not everything!
As Morton H. Halperin’s recently
published “China and the Bomb” (Pall
Mall) indicates, the US Government is
already measuring the relationship be-
tween China’s capacity for nuclear black-
mail and her immediate objectives in
South and South-East Asia. The basic
political conflict is there, nuclear
weapons or no. Nuclear weapons, as
they develop, will greatly increase Com-
munist China’s opportunities of having
her way in South and South-East Asia.
She will use the threat of nuclear attack
on the United States or her allies to
cover the processes of political sub-
version, guerrilla war or even large-scale
conventional conflict.
But while India is obviously examin-
ing the implications of China’s bomb on
By B. A. SANTAMARIA
her own nuclear policies, there is no
sign that Australia is making any such
examination. The strategic facts, how-
ever, make this attitude not so much
an act of virtue as one of unrealism.
What we would all wish would be that
the nations whose shores are washed by
the Pacific and Indian Oceans could
agree to such effective plans of dis-
armament both conventional and
nuclear since they cannot be considered
separately—that nations without nuclear
weapons would never have to face the
question as to whether they should
acquire them. All men of good will
should be working towards such a solu-
tion.
At the same time, as the solution
seems many years off, Australia must be
concerned with the impact of China’s
nuclear weapon on her own security.
The strategic situation which Aus-
tralia must face is dominated by three
necessary assumptions:
(1) It must be assumed in the light
of all of the available material concern-
ing her intentions that Communist China
will seek to dominate the whole of South-
East Asia —and much more besides. The
area in which it will seek predominance
includes Australia and New Zealand.
The predominance it seeks will not De
merely or even necessarily cultural. It
will be military. And that predominance,
if achieved, will involve radical political
changes within each country over which
it operates.
(2) While we must act on the assump-
tion that Communist China will seek
predominance in this region; and while
we may hope that the United States will
challenge this objective by maintaining
her own military presence at critical
points in South-East Asia, we cannot be
certain that that hope will inevitably be
realised. Therefore Hve cannot found
Australian policy on the assumption of
the certainty of the American presence.
(3) There is, however, another cer-
tainty which is unfortunately unchange-
able. Whether or not there is an
American presence in South-East Asia,
Australia will be there. We are firmly
established at the foot of the South-
East Asian archipelago by the facts of
geography.
Should these assumptions be chal-
lenged, strong reasons can be adduced
to verify them as a reasonable foundation
of Australian policy.
Dr T. B. Millar in “Australia’s De-
fence” (p. 59) sees the possible attractive-
ness of Australia to China in our
industrial, pastoral and agricultural
resources. I feel that there is a strategic
reason which is far more fundamental.
It is strategically essential to any power
a Communist China or a militarist
Japan or even a nationalist Indonesia —
which desires to establish its predomi-
nance over South-East Asia to deny
Australia to the United States, as a
potential base against the southern tier
of this empire. It was the Japanese mis-
calculation in failing to knock Australia
out after the battle of the Sunda Strait
which permitted MacArthur to land in
this country and to transform the course
of the war in the South-West Pacific. It
is utterly unlikely that Red China would
willingly permit this mistake to be re-
peated. The consolidation of its influence


MOVE UP TO THE GAR
THAT PAYS
TOP DIVIDENDS
wmmlmm
sglll
■ •
.
:
\-;-V . -' Vp&.i'
m
:
v :
1111
m. !<x
■sm&}\
■
■ .:
. ■'
UtlSlii
lA
it
im
■ill ;
•» ?HMg
wgißm
: fei.
.
■Hi ■:
' I
§g I
■■■■:-■
j ?
■ ■
1 11
■
-;i-'
■raraHHg^Ml
>
■
I :
iiaiiii
IS
•■:'•••
■Ml H
*0 -' ~
it'*' •
l§§lin« wmMm
lIIUBi
£ v * ' ,
■
If you are especially particular about the dividends a car
can pay you —consider the rewards of owing a Ford
Zephyr.
Here is truly individual styling, plus superb perfor-
mance, plus luxurious comfort far in advance of normal
standards.
Behind the wheel you will experience the unique
Zephyr performance —sports car acceleration (o to 60 in
15.6 seconds), big car ride, over 90 miles per hour
without strain from the 6-cylinder “oversquare” 98 hp
engine.
Inside the Zephyr is spacious, uncramped comfort for
six—beautifully appointed in every way, with remarkable
all-round vision. Luggage room is spacious, too —21.75
cubic feet under the sleek lines of the rear deck. Zephyr
standard equipment includes disc brakes on front wheels,
walnut-finish on the fascia panel, armrests on all doors,
folding armrest in front seat, fully synchromesh 4-speed
gearbox.
On the economy front, Zephyr pays high dividends, too.
26 mpg when cruising, lubrication and servicing only
every 5000 miles.
If you are especially particular, then it’s likely that the
Ford Zephyr is the car designed with you in mind. Find
out now, at your Ford Dealer’s. £1,394
3-speed automatic drive optional
FORD ZEPHYR
DESIGNED FOR PARTICULAR PEOPLE


good hews for
CIGAR SMOKERS
Schimmelpenninck Simpatm
(Actual size)
in packets of 4, 7/-;
in packets of 10, 17/6;
and boxes of 25, 43/9.
Schimmelpenninck
CIGARS
Hollands finest
cigars now available
in Australia
Try Schimmelpenninck soon.
One cigar will tell you.
Schimmelpenninck cigars are imported for your
pleasure by Rothmans of Pall Mall (Aust.)
Limited sole Australian agent for
Schimmelpenninck—Sigarenfabrieken
V/HGeurts & Van Schuppen N. V. Wageningen
Holland.
RPM 119
over South-East Asia, which is admittedly
the central aim of its policy, would be
kept in constant jeopardy by even the
possibility of an American military
presence in Australia.
Paradoxically, it is not as necessary for
the United States to hold Australia as
a strategic bastion, as it is for China to
deny the possibility of its use as a
strategic bastion to the US. Australia
became overwhelmingly important to the
US in the Japanese war only after all
of the US bases in the Pacific were
knocked out by the Japanese.
Obviously, the development of nuclear
weapons by the Chinese Communists will
give them a totally new and enormously
enhanced capacity to operate in South-
East Asia. It does not matter whether
the Chinese will have the capacity to
use nuclear weapons against Indian cities
within two years as some fear; or to
make small-scale nuclear attacks on
American West Coast cities in seven
years, as some estimate; or to operate
intercontinental ballistic missiles in ten
years, as others again suggest. The
ultimate consequence for the balance of
power in South-East Asia is the same.
President de Gaulle decided to develop
his own nuclear power because of his
fear that Russia, under different leaders
and in different circumstances, might one
day launch a conventional attack on
Western Europe and that the United
States, tp avoid a nuclear attack on its
cities by intercontinental missiles, might
agree to stand aside.
Such reasoning would be far more
valid in relation to South-East Asia than
it is in relation to Western Europe. For
the USA, there is no comparison between
the military and economic importance of
Western Europe on the one hand, and of
South-East Asia on the other. Whenever
the day dawns on which the Chinese
Communists have the power to launch
nuclear attacks on American cities, and
s-nch a threat is made to back up a
Chinese demand for control of whatever
parts of South-East Asia are not already
under their control, how can we believe
that the Americans would automatically
risk their cities to ensure our security?
Under some circumstances, - they might
agree to risk them: but under no circum-
stances can this be regarded as an auto-
matic choice.
There is another situation in which
Australia could be confronted with
nuclear peril by an enemy. If all-out
nuclear warfare occurred in the Northern
Hemisphere, say between the Soviet
Union on the one hand and Europe on
the other, our allies would be fully
occupied. If Indonesia or China or both
chose to attack us at that moment, our
allies could not possibly come to our
aid quickly enough and in sufficient
strength. Our hope of holding off even
the conventional forces of these nations
would depend on our technical
superiority in fire-power. Only nuclear
weapons could supply this.
In either situation, there are very
strong arguments for the acquisition of
an adequate nuclear capacity by Aus-
tralia. In either situation we are con-
fronted with the highly unpalatable
prospect that an enemy armed with
nuclear weapons could fight and win a
war against us in a few days,. The possi-
bility of transporting nuclear weapons
to this country in such an emergency,
to serve either as defence or deterrent,
is remote. Only weapons already in the
country would be of any value.
As Professor E. W. Titterton pointed
out ten years ago in his important work
“Facing the Atomic Future”, the acquisi-
tion of nuclear weapons is well within
the economic capacity even of small
nations. An expenditure equal to that
of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Elec-
tricity Authority would be sufficient to
provide Australia with adequate nuclear
defence. The inclusion of nuclear
weapons in Australia's defence armory
would make impossible the large-scale
concentration of troops and transport
which would be an essential preliminary
for an attack on Australia. It would
also be fatal even to a “fleet at sea spread
over 100 square miles” (Titterton).
China’s development of nuclear
weapons, in the face of world opinion,
.compels Australia to face these eventuali-
ties. It is a terrifying but a real
thought that the world has been pro-
tected from large-scale war by the
balance of atomic armament between
the USA and the Soviet Union. A small
nation like Australia seems to have no
other way of tipping the balance in favor
of its own defence, and no one in his
right senses can believe that a nation as
small and weak as Australia could be
interested in anything more than self-
defence.
“War, therefore, and not the weapons
of war,” wrote Professor Titterton, “re-
mains the primary problem for humanity.
Until disarmament proposals for weapons
of all types, nuclear included, with
adequate safeguards of inspection and
policing, have been implemented, free-
dom and survival will depend upon pre-
paredness and strong defence forces.”


On page 52 James Jupp reviews C. Driver's
study of the C.N.D., "The Disarmers", and
Professor C. P. Fitzgerald reviews Guy
Wint's "Communist China's Crusade".
CASE AGAINST
In any foreseeable circum-
stances China could not
bluff America into not
defending an ally.
TS Australia herself inclining toward the acquisition of. a nuclear arsenal? Is the
A proposition that she can acquire such an arsenal feasible? What form might such
weapons in Australia assume? Would it be in her national interest to equip herself
with any sort of nuclear arms? These are not easy questions, but they ought to be
subjected to at least a preliminary hearing.
Let me begin by indicating that the
general notion of nuclear arms in Aus-
tralia is not in itself politically inadmis-
sible. Neither the Government nor the
ALP has categorically opposed the intro-
duction of such arms. Early in 1962, for
instance, Sir Garfield Barwick advised
UN Secretary-General U Thant that, be-
cause of China’s presence and intentions
in Asia, Australia reserved the right
of flexibility in deciding whether to
acquire or manufacture nuclear weapons.
The ALP leadership’s embellishments on
the party’s March 1963 defence declara-
tion make it plain that Australia should
not be the first nation in the region to
acquire nuclear weapons. Beyond that
there is no promise to refrain from
acquiring nuclear weapons. The ALP’s
nuclear-free z-one proposal has been so
thoroughly emasculated by party spokes-
men and the realities of international
events alike that it cannot be viewed as
a practical obstacle to the introduction
of nuclear arms. The DLP has formally
gone on record favoring nuclear weapons
in Australia. The RSL similarly declared
itself at its 1962 Congress. Recent
Gallup surveys available to me suggest
that the public at large is not averse.
But what of feasibility? How readily
could it be done? Assuming for sake of
argument that Australia would wish to
introduce nuclear weapons in the near
future, is it reasonable to expect that she
could? The question cannot be answered
unless it is considered in its member
parts. One option for Australia is to
manufacture her own nuclear arsenal.
This would not be impossible, but would
require a major investment of resources,
and could not in any event be accom-
plished quickly. Australia’s present
nuclear programme is exclusively direc-
ted toward peaceful uses. Professor E. W.
Titterton of the ANU has estimated that
the development of an Australian nuclear
bomb would entail a capital works in-
vestment of £4OO million, an annual ex-
penditure of £3O million, and the efforts
of perhaps 1000 scientists and techni-
cians. These costs are not overwhelming,
but certainly imposing. Professor Titter-
ton calculates that from seven to ten
years would be needed to produce such
weapons from scratch. This seems to be
a sensible estimate. India, whose nuclear
development is markedly higher than
Australia’s, would need about 18 months
just to prepare for a test; the development
of the finished, operational product
would take much longer. The new
American TFX attack bombers ordered
by Australia have nuclear capability, but
will not be in service for at least two
years. In other words, whatever her ulti-
mate choice about building nuclear
bombs, Australia could not produce them
in time to cope with immediate or proxi-
mate external developments.
A second possibility is that Australia
could be given nuclear weapons by her
friends —the US or Britain. As far back
as 1960 Washington was reported to
have mentioned the prospect that Austra-
By HENRY S. ALBINSKI
Associate Professor of Political Science,
Pennsylvania State University
lia would receive American tactical nu-
clear weapons in case of war in the
Pacific, and that it was reasonable to
suppose that Britain would also supply
them. But the idea of nuclear bombs be-
ing supplied in time of peace is some-
thing quite different. Both from the
standpoint of American legislation and
practical considerations it is most un-
likely that Australia would be given or
sold a finished nuclear bomb storehouse.
The Americans, like the British, under-
standably wish to keep their own finger
on the nuclear safety-catch, even where
close and loyal friends are concerned.
Furthermore, the award of foreign
nuclear devices to any presently non-
nuclear nation would undercut the
genuine and well-grounded opposition in
Washington and London to nuclear pro-
liferation.
Finally, can Australia reasonably ex-
pect to receive American or British
nuclear delivery systems on her own soil,
even if she was not their owner and con-
troller? This is a complex question, but
is probably answerable in foreseeable
terms. The US is phasing out its strategic
bombers, and their replacement by
ICBMs and long-range Polaris sub-
marines has reduced the value of bases
which encircle the Communist bloc. In
this sense, the signal station at the North
West Cape, which will facilitate the
operations of submarines and aircraft-
carriers holding nuclear-bearing aircraft,
is a deterrent rather than an induce-
ment to house strategic bombers in Aus-
tralia. The nuclear-powered Polaris sub-
marines, by definition, do not require
proximate bases. From an international
politics standpoint as well, neither
America nor Britain would probably
care to pay the price of critical reaction
to placing their nuclear weapons in a
fresh place. The British, for example,
already suffer enough attack for their
alleged “neocolonialist” designs in having
created and now defending Malaysia.
They can, for the moment, fly their V-
bombers from Singapore.
Quite apart from whether Australia
could reasonably count on acquiring
nuclear arms in the near future, would it
serve her national interest to do so?
Probably not. Let me considerjfie mat-
ter of proliferation first. Even a crash
programme of nuclear development
would eventually require testing. This
would constitute a violation of the nu-
clear test ban treaty with which Austra-
lia has associated herself, as would any
assistance Australia might receive from
Britain or America. Australia has sound
reason to give public support to the
treaty. She is genuinely concerned about
proliferation, especially since she lives in
a volatile part of the world, and opposite
such volatile neighbors as Indonesia. A
nuclear arsenal in Australia, either
home-made or imported, could trigger
exactly the kind of reactions in Asia that
Australia wishes to avoid. One would be
Asian exaggeration of present Chinese
nuclear strength, and a corresponding
sense of panic. The other would be the
urge of Asian States to climb on the
nuclear bandwagon by one means or
another.
There certainly is no guarantee that
Australia’s abstention from nuclear status
will affect the nuclear plans of others,
but the chance that it might should not
be discounted. Paul Hasluck's statement
on the occasion of the Chinese nuclear
explosion hinted at the frame of mind in
Canberra. He said that while the Chinese
nuclear event was depressing, it was not
unexpected. Much time would elapse
before China would become a nuclear
power in any significant sense, and the
successful test had not materially en-
hanced her relative power position. Has-


JET THE DAYTIME WAY TO EUROPE
TAKE A
SINGAPORE
IUJUU!
m
m
yp
JT - , J"" g »
S3SS3SSBK
v
is^isg:
mSS&WSSSS
AND THE WONDERFUL BOAC
weo®
✓
Experienced travellers are welcoming this new
daytime way to Europe. Jet BOAC 707 by day
to Singapore; fly on refreshed next morning by
day to Europe and the UK by the superb BOAC
VC 10. (Ask for a VC 10 flight between London
and New York or San Francisco, too.)
For full details of BOAC’s daily Rolls-Royce jet
services from Australia, and the facilities of the
BOAC world network, talk to your Travel Agent,
BOAC, or Qantas (BOAC’s General Sales Agents).
BOAC
ROUSMYCE JETS
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH
AIR- I NDI A, QANTAS AND AIR NEW ZEALAND
yj.4z
98.101 N
CHOOSE
FROM
9 FLIGHT!
A WEEK
TO
rftlP
m
m
*
For full details of BOAC's daily Rolls-Royce jet
services from Australia, and the facilities of the
BOAC world network, talk to your Travel Agent,
BOAC, or Qantas (BOAC’s General Sales Agents).
ALL OVER THE WORLD BOAC TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH
AIR-INDIA, QANTAS AND AIR NEW ZEALAND
9130
luck then went on to discourage nuclear
proliferation in Asia and promised con-
tinued Australian efforts toward the uni-
versal acceptance of the nuclear test ban
treaty, including China. Indonesia’s
boasts about nuclear capacity have
generally gone unbelieved in Canberra
and other Western capitals. But Sir
Robert Menzies commented:
Indonesia, like Australia, is a signa-
tory to the partial nuclear test ban
treaty and is, therefore, with us, in-
volved in a state of affairs in which
we will not have atomic testing our-
selves and we do not want to see the
spread of atomic weapons beyond
those countries in which they now
exist. I would hope that Indonesia
would observe the terms of that ban
just as we do.
Nuclear weapons in Australia would
surely not contribute toward this.
Objections against proliferation aside,
nuclear weapons in Australia would seem
unnecessary. Even in the rather unlikely
context of outright war between Austra-
lia and Indonesia, existing US deter-
rent power would tend to preclude Soviet
or Chinese intervention. Alone or in
combination with friends, an Australia
engaged in such a war would consider
resort to even tactical nuclear weapons
as an unwelcome invitation to escalation.
The prospect of a Soviet or Chinese
nuclear threat to Australia, carried out
from these powers or, hypothetically,
from bases in Indonesia, would appear
almost unthinkable without amounting to
an invitation to general war with Ameri-
ca. Some circles in Australia maintain a
position comparable to President de
Gaulle’s that even the closest of allies
could not be expected with full certainty
to lay their homeland open to nuclear
calamity by assisting an attacked friend.
Hence, if France needs her own nuclear
force, one which could not smash an
adversary completely but could “tear off
an arm”, Australia has a similar require-
ment. Lest she be written off as expend-
able, she must be able to provide for a
nuclear contingency, either by her own
means or by inducing the Americans to
plant and therefore expose their own
forces in Australia.
But I, for one, am unconvinced. For
several reasons, of which the American
presence at the North West Cape is one,
it is implausible to conceive of situations
in which Australia were automatically
devastated or forced into submission
while America’s retaliatory bluff was
successfully called. At all events, quite
frankly, if a major Communist power
were to run the calculated risk that it
could strike an American ally without
engaging America’s nuclear strength, it
would probably play for higher stakes
than Australia.


Gary Shead
at the Paddington
Arts Festival
"It's just like the Renaissance."
"That's not rust, that's art."
" What's this Kropp? We came to see Beckett."


n
••• ' >.• $
WMi)
111
iiKMM
■el
• : x - : •• ■
CONTAINERS BY COURTESY OF—A.C.I
AMPAC PTY. LTD., SIMPSON S MANUFACTURING PTY. LTD
We make some of our plastics for container makers,
rm
yf
¥
*
m
m
mm
mm.
some for appliance makers,
’
.v
some for paint makers,
and some we even make for other plastic companies.
You never know when you’ll find
our plastics. Our polyethylene is
used in all kinds of unbreakable
bottles, drums and containers. Our
epoxy resins are used in television
sets. Our latexes improve paint.
And that’s just a beginning. Our list
of specialised plastics goes on and
on. Zetafin* resins for table cloths,
toys and place mats. Tyril* resins
for use in tumblers, bandies, filter
bowls, medical equipment and
batteries. And there are a lot more
products using our plastics, too. Not
by accident. But because of our
reputation for reliability and
uniformly high quality plastics,
chemicals and agricultural chemi-
cals, regardless of quantity. We’d
like to have the privilege of putting
our products in whatever you make.
May we? Dow Chemical (Aus-
tralia) Pty. Ltd., M.L.C. Building,
105 Miller St., Nth. Sydney, N.S.W.
*Trademark of The Dow Chemical Company


Housewife’s Champion
Tom the Cheap
By TERRY PADLEY
It was inevitable that in time the old
joke would be applied to Tom the
Cheap Grocer. Someone said Tom
had bought “The West Australian”,
Perth’s morning newspaper. “How much
did it cost him?” asked the sucker. “Six-
pence,” replied the wit. The joke did the
rounds until many thought for a time
that WA Newspapers had actually fallen
to Tom. He has made such amazingly
rapid progress that they are prepared to
believe almost anything about him.
From a little grocery shop in North
Perth, Thomas Edward Wardle has in
only ten years created a chain of 130
bearing his bold, scarlet lettering. Two
are in Sydney, 14 in Victoria, 24 in South
Australia and the others are in WA.
Darwin is next one is being prepared
for opening there within a few weeks
and a package deal for 14 Queensland
shops is being negotiated.
Like Jack’s beanstalk, the business just
grows and grows. There are now 850
on the payroll and he has launched an
ambitious twin venture: “Tom’s Other
Stores”. These are for general merchan-
dise and, chiefly to further the venture,
Mr Wardle has spent an estimated
£1,000,000 in the past seven months on
three giant Perth properties, one in the
heart of the city block.
His chain is listed by the National
Association of Retail Grocers as Aus-
tralia’s fourth biggest (“Actually I’m
third”), behind Woolworths, Coles and
Moran and Cato. Tom’s turnover is given
as £9,000,000 by the Association’s jour-
nal but he says it is £18,000,000.
What’s his secret of success? “There’s
no secret,” he says. “I’m known, some-
times with bitterness, as the ten per cent
man because I’ve proved that if you
cut every item to its minimum profit
margin you’ll win steady customers.”
He worked for a bank before the war
and decided to go into business when he
came out of the army. He wanted to
avoid the frequent country trips that
would keep him apart from the girl he
married at the beginning of the war. “I
took the grocery in North Perth, knocked
up my own shelves and borrowed a cash
register. I had worked it out that the
most I could lose was £3OO and that
wouldn’t make me bankrupt.
“In 1955 I made a decision I’ve never
gone back on: to reject fixed prices.
Everyone, including my wife, said I was
mad to try to buck the system but I re-
garded it as wrong and I’m stubborn.”
That decision changed his life and, in
fact, the entire Australian groceries field.
He refuses to adopt the supermarket’s
classic strategy of luring customers in-
side with specials, sometimes below cost,
and then ambushing them with high-
profit lines. Instead, he cuts all items to
low profit levels.
His shops could never be described as
glamorous. They are essentially func-
tional and, in comparison with, say, a
Woolworths Foodfair, are downright
dowdy. But they made £213,000 profit
last year for T. E. Wardle Pty Ltd,
owned by Mr Wardle, his wife and his
son and daughter (a Bachelor of Econo-
mics now in London).
Every now and then a rumor ripples
through Perth that Tom’s is the front for
powerful interests. Reid Murray was
one and the most colorful has been Art
Linkletter. Mr Wardle is quite convinced
that some at least of these rumors are
deliberately circulated by enemies in the
trade. He is delighted that in the wake
of his success housewives have benefited
not only from his prices but also from
those other grocery groups were forced
to adopt. “There’s no doubt that their
mark-ups were exorbitant and bloody
greedy,” he says. “They averaged 28 to
30 per cent and in some cases were as
much as 100 per cent. The shopper was
held to ransom—and I’m sure that if I
was out of the game next week they
would be again.”
Mr Wardle is quick to add that he is
not in groceries solely to be the house-
wife’s champion. There is no room for
sentiment in business, he says. But how
many other grocers of his position occa-
sionally get simple letters, obviously un-
solicited, obviously treasured and men-
tioned merely in passing, from unknown
Two advertising slogans
COMPETITORS
SAY "HE'LL
RUIN US"
CUSTOMERS SAY
"WE LOVE HIM"
grateful women. Some send him Christ-
mas cards.
There is still a big question mark hang-
ing over Mr Wardle’s activities: what
happens when he is no more? This no
doubt tantalises the big guns in the
groceries world and Mr Wardle doesn’t
seem to know the answer himself yet,
though he doubts that it would mean the
disintegration of his empire. Certainly the
emperor’s flair for remorseless outflank-
ing of trade barriers would be sorely
missed. “Other grocery groups keep up
the pressure on manufacturers to stop
my supplies and it’s taken a lot of time
and effort to get over or around these
fences,” he says. Some fences are truly
fantastic. Not long after his chain began,
Mr Wardle used to do the rounds him-
self, using a car and trailer. Realising he
was being shadowed, he told the CIB in
case he had a criminal on his trail. The
“tail” turned out to be a private detec-
tive hired to find out where Mr Wardle
was getting his supplies so they could be
cut off.
When he pruned the price of head-
ache powders the makers began number-
ing the packet flaps to keep a record of
wholesale distributions. The flaps were
torn off so they began numbering the
paper wrappers round the powders. Thus
offending distributors could be traced and
disciplined. The powders are just one of
many items not seen now on Tom’s
shelves.
He has been forced to get his choco-
lates from overseas and now spends
£500,000 a year on foreign goods. “Four-
fifths of this could be spent in Australia
if there was a different and more com-
monsense attitude,” he says.
He predicts even tougher battles with
stock for his “other” stores. Recently
Australian-made slippers he was selling
at 15/- cheaper than elsewhere (and still
making 12i per cent profit) were cut off
after pressure on the supplier by other
retailers. Remarkably, he is not at all
bitter about the fierce and unrelenting
opposition to his operations. In fact, he
sees it as the spur to his continued ex-
pansion. “I get a kick out of beating the
price-fixers or making them retreat,” he
says with a grin. “It took me 12 months
to break their grip on soap powders. I
was the first in Australia to break down
price maintenance in this field.”
Chemists are another lot who would
love to see Tom Wardle dangling from
a gibbet and are a lot he describes as
being particularly greedy. They continue
to fight strongly but he scores heavily on
some patent medicines and especially on
toilet articles. His prices are shillings be-
low their tabs on such items as sham-
poos, hairsprays and baby food.
Mr Wardle is a fit-looking 50-year-old.
He lives quietly, has a placid social life
and is invariably in bed by ten. His main
interest, apart from cutting price-fixers
down to size, is fishing.
Lying on his desk not the neatest
in town was an alarmingly bulky pile
of letters and cheques for causes ranging
from Miss Australia quest entrants to
obscure kids’ football clubs. This year
the £5OO Wardle Art Prize got under way
at the Festival of Perth.


"a
I
Why
rush across
the Pacific?
Take a tropical break! Fly Air-
India’s Daylight Service to Fiji
enjoy about nine glorious
hours in this South Pacific para-
dise and still arrive in the U.S.A .
on schedule. Savour the leisurely
life: enjoy the pleasures of
superb hotels, with lavish swim-
ming pools, elegant cocktail bars,
sophisticated atmosphere. Dance
to softly haunting island music.
See an. exciting Fijian meke . . .
palm-fringed white-sand beaches.
Bargain hunt, successfully, at
duty-free shops. Take a car tour
of Nandi and Lautoka at econ-
omical rates. Then go on re-
freshed to the U.S.A. with no
destination time lost. Fly Air-
India’s Daylight Flights to Fiji.
AIR-INDIA
the airline that treats you
like a Maharajah
Over. 32 years’
flying experience
In association with BOAC and Qantas
9395 A 146.102
The Novelist’s Chances
Getting away from provincial aestheticism
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Mr Christopher Koch is a pro-
mising young Australian novelist.
As such, he can expect to find
himself eventually set up on a modest,
mulga-wood plinth, to see his name
threaded through the turgid prose of the
literary quarterlies and, above all, to
make very little money and very little
reputation beyond Australia.
However, Mr Koch, who has his two
feet firmly planted under a producer’s
desk in the ABC education department,
shows signs of believing that this isn’t
quite enough. He is striving towards an
international reputation.
“We cannot go on being provincial
forever,” he said. “I am concerned only
with what name I can make internation-
ally. That doesn’t
mean I don’t hope
to be better under-
stood or appreciated
in my own country,
but if I hope to
make a living by
writing—and I do—
I must be known
outside this coun-
try.”
Mr Koch equally
accepts the challenge
that if you are any
good at writing, you
earn your living
from it. “Of course,
there are excep-
tions,” he said. “I
know that things are
difficult for the
novelist at present,
with sales of hard-
back editions declin-
ing, and so on. And of course, a solid
reputation and the income that might
go with it don’t happen quickly.”
Again, Mr Koch grows a little restive
because he, in common with other Aus-
tralian writers, can rarely even get his
work judged by local critics on an inter-
national basis. “The habit of comparing
Australian writers only with other Aus-
tralian writers persists,” he said. “I
always seem to be compared, or linked,
with Randolph Stow. We have abso-
lutely nothing in common.” They have,
of course, age and sex, which are quite
enough for critics, but not, apparently,
for Mr Koch.
Mr Koch at the moment spends his
working days producing programmes of
English for Thais for the ABC and his
weekends making some small progress
on his third novel. At the same time he
is studying the reviews of his second
novel, “Across the Sea Wall”, published
recently by Heinemann, and, one sup-
poses, thinking ahead to the inevitably
modest royalties cheque.
Mr Koch, who has lived in London
and studied in the United States, feels
that he is at a practical disadvantage in
Australia. “I should be in London, I
suppose,” he said. “I would have a
much better chance of attention. I got
some quite good reviews this time. The
best was probably by Laurence Meynell,
but that was in a provincial paper, so it
doesn’t count for much. If you get
good reviews in the four major London
newspapers you are made. There are 80
books published every week in England;
five of them might be reviewed. If people
know you, even know your name, your
chances are much
better.”
Mr Koch hopes
that a literary grant
will be forthcoming
to enable him to
finish his third novel.
He regards it as
essential to have un-
interrupted time to
do the major part of
any book, but has
few feelings that his
talent is so rare and
precious that it will
wither at exposure
to ordinary work.
“I have been told
that working for the
ABC will ‘make me
slick’,” he said. “I
have already been
through the sort of
romantic phase of
ditch-digging, and so on, which were
supposed to keep your mind free for
your writing. When I did laboring jobs
I was so dog tired at the end of the day
I couldn’t even think.”
Mr Koch said he felt that the idea of
a writer constantly saving himself for
writing was part of a “provincial aes-
theticism” in Australia.
“There is a feeling that the writer
should be uncorrupted,” he said. “The
stock theme is the prophet going out into
the desert to find his soul. We have com-
municated this attitude outside Austra-
lia, and it works to Australian writers’
disadvantage in London. Critics and
readers expect Australia to be rural and
they want Australians to go on writing
books with rural backgrounds.
“Anything that is happening in Aus-
tralia is happening in the cities. And
Sydney and Melbourne haven’t even
been ‘created' yet.”


Forgotten Minority
Remembrances of Shans past
By GEOFFREY FAIRBAIRN
Every nation State in South-East Asia
has been afflicted by minority
problems since World War II; and
the aspirations and frustrations of these
minority peoples have played a major
part in the other chief affliction of the
region guerrilla insurgency. I was
strikingly reminded of this a little while
ago when I received a letter from a
young Shan living far from his home-
land in North-East Burma. His father
having been “taken into imprisonment
where he died of heart failure, it is
officially said”, his younger brother
having been hit in the head by careless
government bullets, and his mother
having had to go into exile, he felt it
was unlikely that he could return home
to apply his agricultural knowledge to
Shan farming. This is not at all simply
a case of a wicked dictator belonging
to the Burman majority race wantonly
persecuting members of a minority. It
is an example of the tragedies inherent
in a racial mixed country when a man
of high ideals and ruthless attitudes like
General Ne Win, Burma’s Head of State,
sets out to modernise such a society
from a distant centre like Rangoon,
according to extreme Left-wing centralis-
ing blueprints—nowadays partly drawn
by Communist advisers.
Impatient of necessity, since he is
racing against time Communist time
coercive of necessity, too, since
Burma’s parliamentary democracy proved
itself quite incapable of purposeful
democratic modernisation, he is savagely
contemptuous of the minority peoples
because their insurgency interfered with
his modernising programme. Ne Win
has ridden roughshod over the sensi-
bilities of these people with the grim-
ness of another great, quick moderniser,
Kemal Ataturk, the leader, I believe,
he most closely resembles. He is a man
of great qualities, but in the nature of
events they can scarcely be appreciated
by the minority peoples. To argue the
rights and wrongs is not my purpose
here; it is simply to sketch some of my
“relatives” as they became over the
years, who belong to one of the minority
races: the Shans.
The memories of the family, uncle
and aunt and cousins of my Shan foster-
son, come flooding back. They lived in
a great barn of a place in Kokine Road,
Rangoon; a tall, vast ballroom with bed-
rooms leading off it like cool, spacious
cells with their bare floors and shuttered
windows. The ballroom (where we ate
hot spiced Shan foods flown down from
Lashio airport) was nearly empty and
yet always seemingly rather chaotic:
Buddhist texts spilling out of packing
cases, mostly. A little bit chaotic, and
always resonant with the voices of
children and servants who, being Shans,
also were virtually members of the
family, judging by the familiarity of
their talk and the easy-goingness of their
movements.
Uncle, the first President of indepen-
dent Burma (minority dignitaries were
rung in as President to keep up the
facade of a Union of peoples), and by
the time I stayed there Speaker of the
Upper House, was a devout Buddhist
populariser and would-be proselytiser, as
I soon found out. His wife, the
Mahadevi, would weigh in about her
convent days which, it seems, had taught
her English and the knowledge that
“Christianity was for children . . . like
Father Christmas”; and then Uncle, one
of the truly gentle men I have known who
nevertheless had a voice like a foghorn,
would urge some Buddhist-language text
upon me which he had forgotten, once
again, I could not read.
But we talked about the impermanence
of all conditioned things and about just
what “it” was that was reborn and
allowed Buddhists, to believe in re-
incarnation. The shadows would begiu
gently to fall across the long refectory
table—actually I think it was only an
ex-army slab on rough supports but it
seemed like a refectory table by this
time—and we would go out to watch
the Mahadevi (who had long since left
us) weeding the lawn, sitting on an up-
turned biscuit tin.
One day, Uncle (I can think of him
by no other name) took me to see a
monk who had spent many years up a
tree, living only on nuts. It was quite an
occasion: the reverend attendance upon
such a man was regarded as being of
definite merit. We drove to the bamboo-
thatch building, that had specially been
built for this purpose, in a long black
car. When we got there we took off our
shoes and moved inside. Here, I fondly
imagined, the impedimenta of Western
materialism would be wholly cast aside.
But it w’as not to be: we sat down and
lit up cheroots and then quenched our
thirst (it was a blazing hot Rangoon
afternoon and stifling even in the open-
sided low building) from bottles of
Coca-Cola and fanned ourselves with
fans bearing commercial advertisements,
doubtless provided specially for the
occasion by some devout tycoon.
The monk sat on a dais for our spiritual
delectation; and he really did look as
though he had subsisted on nuts for
many years. He was very ernaciated
indeed but there was —perhaps it was
the illusion created by the shaft of light
that struck his saffron robe —a curious,
hectic radiance emanating from his


%
m
s
*
4
r
SN.
r ;
m
'
1
,
tfei
£**■
» - .•?>:
.
fe:
■
C.I.G. is thread
to sew the toughest seams
This thread is the Arc Welding electrode the
sewing is Arc Welding of the butt or fillet type,
now the universally accepted method used for
most types of metal fabrication. This is the process
used in the construction of steel framed buildings,
oil storage tanks, pipe lines, boilers, ships hulls
and, as shown in our illustration, in the manu-
facture of the famous Australian designed and
built mobile concrete mixers which are now
operating not only throughout this country, but
also in many places overseas. C.I.G. are specialists
in Arc Welding and C.I.G.s Arc Welding Elec-
trodes—the famous E.M.F. range—were pioneers
in the field and were responsible for the develop-
ment of electric welding in Australia. There's an
E.M.F. Electrode for every purpose, every type
of steel sheet, mild or stainless also for
cast-iron aluminium and other non-ferrous
metals. .So. when there is metal to be joined.
C.I.G. are ready to assist we have the experts,
the know-how. the equipment and the electrodes
to help Australian industry sew better seams.
C1G.506 B
E.M.F. Ferrocraft 42 Electrodes being used for manual welding
of heat exchanger shells. One of the newest E.M.F. Electrodes, Ferrocrafl
42 has excellent weld-metal properties plus deep-root penetration.
Particularly suitable for such specialised applications as welding of
X-Ray Quality.
This is C.I.Q.
Welding is our business'.
May we show you how one or
Other of our many welding systems
can help your business.
CIG
THE COMMONWEALTH INDUSTRIAL GASES LIMITED


shrunken face; and, certainly, a strange
and wonderful peacefulness about his
whole demeanor that was in no way
upset when Uncle made me rise to my
feet, much against my will, and take
some movie film of him. I learnt then
that Buddhist monks could be spiritually
very formidable. This one was like the
Hindu saddhus in Raja Rao’s “The Ser-
pent and the Rope”: “lost in such beauti-
ful magnanimity, as though love were
not something one gave to another, but
gave to oneself”. Elsewhere, when
political, they have proved themselves
implacable.
Now Uncle is dead and the hermit
monk perhaps back in his tree medita-
ting, permitting simple villagers in some
remote place to make merit by offering
him food beneath his eyrie, finding re-
lease from the bondage of the desires
that lead to endless rebirth. The
Mahadevi is in exile, she who had too
much laughter in her to see herself as
the Shan Joan of Arc, yet successfully
stood for parliament and spoke out man-
fully for Shans’ rights; too sensible to
engage in rebellion, too forthright not to
be wildly indiscreet in her public utter-
ances. She once told me how she had
stepped out of the aircraft in Moscow
and said: “Don’t expect me to be over-
impressed; I am a descendant of Chingiz
Khan.”
There was always the bubbling of
laughter in her voice, and doubtless there
was then; and yet this kind of historical
imagination, certainly much reduced in
scope, has been responsible for much of
what has become a Shan agony. (And
British participants in the First Burmese
War reported the presence of Shan
princesses leading troops.) Between 1287
and 1531 there was a very real period
of Shan domination in Upper Burma
with Shan kings in the royal capital of
Ava.
With the granting of independence to
the Union of Burma under one of
those semi-demi-quasi-federal constitu-
tions that were the result in Asia of the
British genius for compromise and of
suspicion (well - founded enough in
Burma’s case) of native constitutional
ability the minority groups, and not
only the Shans, looked forward to a
resurgence of the old customary be-
havior. But this was not to be: the
country was plunged into insurrections,
Communist, “Trotskyite”, and racial
(though not then involving the Shans).
But the trouble was much wider than
sporadic guerrillaism, which at this time
(early 1954) was little more than
banditry anyway. What was at issue was
who was to wield power in the States—
-32 States covering 56,000 square miles
make up the Shan State—the army or
the traditional Shan rulers? The issue
was never really in doubt: the Shans had
lio arms in their area because minority
units always served outside their own
States and the traditional rulers were
stripped of their so-called “feudal”
powers to become civil servants effec-
tively controlled by “the Centre”, Ran-
goon.
Though under the Constitution the
Shans were permitted to secede from the
Union in 1958, the act was impossible
for this landlocked State and anyway
would never have been permitted by
the Burmese Army, whatever the
politicians might have agreed to. Added
to this was what the Shans saw as a
very raw deal economically: they wanted
to raise their own crops and cattle
according to their own plans, but instead
they were greeted with development
plans adumbrated by “the Centre” in
conjunction with the Israeli Government.
After 1958 disaffection began to grow in
the Shan State. It has never been very
effective; and it never can be—perhaps
two and a half millions stand against
some 18 millions, without hope of arms,
except from China which at present has
the Burmese Government nicely neutral-
ised, or Thailand which has its own ugly
North-East minority problems and would
on no account embroil itself in Burma
in support of its “cousins”. And so, I
suppose, the Shans are inexorably doomed
never to regain their proper racial pride;
nor perhaps even survive as a people in
the long run since the Shan country is
underpopulated and underproductive.
Pride and Doom
TI/Iy mind goes back to Kutkai: the
intense green of the Sikh dairy farms;
the roar of the Indian trucks along the
dusty road; the burr of the Japanese
machines owned by Chinese in the “town
centre”; the tinkling of golden pagoda
leaves on the top of a steep hill, the
breeze as cool as the Buddha’s gentle
understanding; the dusty old opium shop
where I smoked a pipe amongst softly
inane faces; and Sao Seng Zandr, beauti-
ful and endlessly self-fussed, ever afraid
the rays of the sun might impair her
gorgeous complexion, squatting by the
fire in the Resident’s bungalow, wearing
a mink coat and coaxing the embers
into flame with a hollow'ed bamboo she
contrived to transform into a magic
flute. The bungalow was without charm
but the pines and gums around it were
redolent of peace. There was one lovely
white carnation out: “Its birth had to be
helped”, Seng Zandr said proudly. We
walked across the scraggly surviving
shoots of what had once been a kikuyu
grass lawn, down the hill past the pig
farm with its little thatched pens, to visit
the “twenty-bedded” hospital run by an
“imported” Indian doctor, Burmese
doctors being unwilling to leave Ran-
goon. This is typical of the new Asian
bourgeoisie and a major key to the
success of Communist insurgency
throughout South-East Asia: Communist
“intellectuals” are not afraid to live in
the villages like peasants. Only a few
days before, the Foreign Minister, a
Shan, had said to me: “We need mis-
sionary doctors, missionary doctors!”
The sad-faced Indian doctor was no
missionary, simply a lonely exile waiting
for his contract to run out and bemoan-
ing the fact that the hill people never
came to visit him until they felt “The
Shadow”, when it was usually too late
to heal them.
Nearby were Devon-neat “haystacks”
of dry paddy. It was a rich crop. Fer-
tiliser had been broadcast by hand; it
raised a yield from 15-20 baskets of
paddy to 90 baskets per acre from a
sowing down of one basket. But there
was land for the burning, literally,
amongst the more primitive hill peoples.
An old man and two bullocks were
threshing it in the gloaming simply by
walking around and around a post. The
old man received only four baskets of
paddy, a very low return, but he was
obviously a happy man with a face riven
by smiles and gentle tut-tuttings at mis-
fortunes he knew were but part of life.
The Chief Commissioner’s house in
Lashio also comes back to mind. Sao
Horn Hpa was the senor Shan in the
North, much bigger than the rest of his
male relatives, his close-cropped hair and
military bearing and rather Chinese face
conferred upon him the air of an Asian
Prussian. He did personally execute
bandits with his own sword, the story
went, but I found him, another Uncle,
exceedingly amiable. He was a man of
great presence and considerable ability
as an administrator and yet he could not
bear to speak on the telephone. He
seemed to spend most of the day playing
mah-jong with some old cronies under
the great steel girders that served as
rafters. One wore a beret, another a
nineteenth-century tweed cap; they never
removed their head wear, though Sao
Horn Hpa made a concession to progress
by removing his topee. Mah-jong must be
a relaxing game; there was never the
least irritation and the smiles on the
faces of the cronies, village elders of
lower status by far, were never obsequi-
ous. A curious thing, feudalism.
But of course it did provide certain
privileges to the upper strata: in par-
ticular two: the right to hold a gambling
festival, which was very lucrative in-
deed, and the right to select wives from
the villages, however many wives might
already be in residence. Sao Horn Hpa
had only three actually living in: an
ugly, obsequious No. 1 wife, No. 1 only
because she had given her husband a
son; a charming older woman who fav-
ored topees and tennis; and a lovely


young girl who had recently caught the
eye of Sao Horn Hpa as he drove through
the village.
To my horror, on my first evening
there, she left early and passed through
the curtains which led to my bedroom.
This was a moment of truth. Had she
made a mistake and been too frightened
to re-emerge? In which case if I entered
I would certainly feel the sword through
my neck the following morning. Had she
been lent to me, Eskimo-fashion? In
that case if I did not enter soon I would
get the same treatment for insulting Sao
Horn Hpa’s latest choice. I smoked a
final cheroot, pretending to a fascination
for mah-jong that became almost hys-
terical towards the end. Ash flew over
shoulders, on to baggy Shan trousers,
smoke into eyes, as I waggled about
over the table like a man whose last
bob was on a roiflette wheel endlessly
spinning. At last I stumbled through the
curtains, a condemned prisoner on his
way to the guillotine, only to find that
behind them was not only my room but
narrow stairs leading into the darkness
of the harem. From then on I enjoyed
my stay immensely, even breakfasting at
6 am. seated opposite the row of wives.
But best of all I remember standing
on the cliff above the Shwe-li at Muse,
mist moving slowly down the valley, rice
birds still white against the green river-
side pea-fields that were slowly being
invaded by the swirling mist, out of
which flew two superb geese. They swung
towards Burma. I said to myself: “If
they swing back to China I shall never
return here where I have been so happy.”
They swung back through the mist to
China. Seng Zandr said: “It is too cold
Out here.” So we returned to the bun-
galow which had once accommodated
travelling British officials. In my bed-
room there was an old notice on the wall:
“The wife of a govt, officer is exempted
from fees which would otherwise be
liable provided she occupies the same
room as her husband.” Fun. empire.
Seng Zandr began to behave like a
naughty puppy for the benefit of her
husband and me. One minute she was
tearing into nuts like a monkey showing
off at the zoo, then some sulpha pills,
more nuts, groaning about her sore
throat, nuts again, fierce indigestive
noises, an anacin tablet, nuts . . . another
sulpha tablet: “No, I think I’ll keep that
one for my hen,” she said judici-
ously. Her husband, the gentle archetypal
Good Sheriff, smiled his gentle smile and
took some medicine. I thought about the
geese. I still do, often. Their freedom of
movement mocked the landlocked, iso-
lated, trapped, one might almost say,
hopes of a small people destined to
dream of what had passed and of what
now could never come to pass:
nationality.
Some Musty Skeletons
Malaysia’s racial war of words
From ALEX JOSEY in Singapore
What is the verbal war now going
on in Malaysia between Singa-
pore and Kuala Lumpur all
about? How serious is it? Frank and
objective reporting from Malaysia is not
being made any easier by recent out-
bursts from the Government back-
benchers. In Parliament recently they
demanded that the Constitution be re-
viewed regarding fundamental liberties.
They want a national newsagency to be
set up “because foreign correspondents
twist Malaysia’s image abroad”. They
want the Government to declare Dennis
Bloodworth of “The Observer” and my-
self persona non grata.
All this should probably not be taken
seriously but for the fact that “Utusan
Melayu”, the Jawi-language newspaper,
decribed by the Tunku as the Voice of
the Malays, constantly harps on the same
theme. Mr Lee Kuan Yew has publicly
stated that most of the shares of this
newspaper, read only by Malays, are
owned by leaders of UMNO, mainstay
of the Alliance Government. What is
certain is that so long as Tunku Abdul
Rahman remains Prime Minister of
Malaysia (which most people of all
races here hope will be for a long time),
serious interference with the freedom of
the Press is most unlikely. But correspon-
dents cannot easily forget that Dennis
Bloodworth was curtly summoned to
Kuala Lumpur last year by Deputy
Prime Minister Tun Razak, and sternly
warned about his future reporting.
The main reason for this is, of course,
the verbal war itself. This has been
going on, in some form or another,
almost since the formation of Malaysia
on September 16, 1963.
Mutual suspicion of intent is the basic
cause. Both sides, the Alliance Govern-
ment in Kuala Lumpur, and Mr Lee
Kuan Yew and his State Government in
Singapore, now openly accuse each other
of communalism. Mr Lee’s complaint is
that UMNO (the United Malays National
Organisation), which provides most of
the Central Government’s Ministers, is
out to create a Malay-dominated
Malaysia. UMNO’s Secretary-General,
Dato Syed Jaafar Albar, makes fiery
speeches in which he sometimes calls Mr
Lee a Communist, a traitor to Malaysia,
or an enemy of the Malays, and never
fails to call upon the Malays to unite.
Mr Lee says a Malaysian Malaysia can-
not be created this way.
Dato (Dr) Ismail, Malaysia's pipe-
smoking Minister for Home Affair*,
a typically kind and considerate Malay
intellectual, offered what was, presumably,
the Alliance Government’s explanation
of the wordy battle, the deep suspicion.
Dr Ismail told Parliament there were
two ways of establishing Malaysia. One,
the platform of the PAP “which wants
to impose non-communalism right away”.
The other, the Alliance method, which
requires two steps: first, inter-racial
harmony between racially organised
groups such as the United Malays
National Organisation, the Malayan
Chinese Association, and the Malayan
Indian Congress: second, the ultimate
stage of non-communalism.
“Thus,” declared Dato Ismail, “as can
be seen, both the Alliance and the PAP
subscribe to the concept of a Malaysian
Malaysia, but they differ in their
approach to make it a living entity. It
is this difference in approach which
generates a great deal of heat, and which
disturbs the hitherto comparatively
tranquil political scene in Malaysia.”
The PAP had no experience of politics
in multi-racial society, he argued, be-
cause Singapore was a “homogeneous
society with some racial minorities”.
Probably, he went on, “like mediaeval
men, it is easier for them to destroy
than to understand a phenomenon which
is strange to them”.
Mr Lee Kuan Yew welcomed Dato
Ismail’s two-step plan for non-com-
munalism. “If Dato Ismail is sincerely
supported by the Alliance, then we
have the solution,” he said. “But, for
a year and a half, the Malay ra'ayat
in the kampongs have been pumped with
communal propaganda.” This had to be
stopped if they were to go ahead with
Malaysia. The open squabble in Parlia-
ment lasted five days, and was interrupted
by the King’s official birthday when the
Sovereign took the opportunity (being
a constitutional monarch, this upon the
advice of the Prime Minister) to call
for calm.
Unfortunately, it was a vague remark
in the King’s speech in Parliament which
had set some of the hard words in
motion. Not even the Cabinet, at one
time, seemed to be agreed upon their
true meaning. These were the words,
in the Royal address: “We are now
facing threats to our security from out-
side—from Indonesia. In addition, we
are also facing threats from within the
country. Both these threats are designed


Ill : : ii|i ■'a " a■ l SB
: :
*#-
*
VOt . 4
i=
fcr
u.
k
?!
N
fe'lliiiir
!
Why do they stand out from the crowd ?
THE clues—the TAA flight bag
she’s carrying, the TAA suntan
they’re both wearing, and those warm
happy smiles.
The solution—they’re Just back
from a TAA Fly-away Holiday in
the sunny North.
There’s no need to spend Winter in a
deep freeze. An inexpensive TAA Fly-
away Holiday can take you to Alice Springs
and the Red Centre, the glamorous Gold
Coast, the Great Barrier Reef or fascinating
Papua/New Guinea.
There are hundreds of TAA Fly-away
Holidays to all over Australia and Papua/
New Guinea. Your Travel Agent or TAA
Travel Adviser will be happy to advise you
which holiday suits your plans and budget
best.
The TAA Holiday Travel Service can
arrange a holiday by air, road, rail or sea,
book any accommodation, tours—even a taxi
from the airport or a ticket to the theatre.
Being exclusively concerned with travel,
TAA knows the travel business best.
Through the TAA Travel Service you can
choose from Australia’s greatest variety of
holidays in any area at any time.
Fly the friendly way
TAA%
THE NATION'S JEJUNE LwT^
Only TAA has Whispering T-Jets
Contact your Travel Agent or phone your TAA Travel Adviser
TAAB366/6S


A new angle
*—on industrial buildings. The angle we are referring to is the
LOWLINE roof of the Armco Rigid Frame Building, so reveal-
ingly portrayed above by our photographer who got a little out
of control when he saw the beautiful job we’d made of it
It’s modern. It's low. You like it? It means that you can plan
a building around the versatile Armco Rigid Frame System and
have it look mighty attractive.
Drop us a line if you’ve got something in the wind. We’d like
to help you right from the start.
A
oowav
(Australia) Pty. Ltd.
N.S.W.: 127-141 Bath Road, Sutherland. 521-2711.
Victoria: 32 Road, Moorabbin, 5.20. 95-0241.
Queensland: 194-196 Grey Street, South Brisbane. 4-3214.
South Australia: P.O. Box 68. Port Adelaide.
AR139.64
to create trouble. If those concerned
achieve their objective it will mean
chaos for us, and an end to democracy
“Do you mean us?” demanded Mr Lee.
An Alliance backbencher yelled, “Yes”.
Nobody on the Ministerial benches cor-
rected him. Other Government speakers
made it clear they considered Mr Lee
and the PAP the enemies within. Dato
Sambanthan spelled it out when he said:
“Malaysia is being externally threatened
by Indonesia, and internally by Mr Lee
Kuan Yew and his brand of politics.”
On the final day of the debate, which
was wound up by the Deputy Prime
Minister, Tun Razak (“the Prime
Minister feels there is nothing of any
importance left for him to speak about”),
corrected Dato Sambanthan, and chided
Mr Lee. Malaysia’s “threat from within”
were the Communists. They were the
traitors. It was “sheer deceit” for Mr
Lee to imagine he and his colleagues were
the threat. Lee knew full well what the
Government meant. “The Prime Minister
has never thought of Mr Lee Kuan Yew,
or his party, as the enemy from within,”
declared Tun Razak.
Several times during the debate, Mr
Lee was invited to give proof of his be-
lief that UMNO were working for a
Malay-dominated Malaysia. He said he
would be glad to do this. Mr Lee notified
the Speaker of his desire to make clari-
fications and the Speaker agreed to allo-
cate Mr Lee 45 minutes at 8.15 on
Thursday evening. On Thursday evening,
the Speaker told Mr Lee that two Minis-
ters wished to speak before him. They
held the floor until the House adjourned.
When the House assembled on Friday
morning, Mr Lee rose, expecting to be
then allowed to make his reply. He was
at once informed by the Speaker that he
had lost his chance. When Mr Lee pro-
tested, the Speaker ruled that this was not
the “proper time” for him to address the
House.
Denied the opportunity to speak in the
House, Mr Lee hurriedly summoned a
Press conference in another part of Par-
liament. It went on for two hours while
Mr Lee, after explaining the background
to the Speaker’s original arrangement for
him to speak, produced the evidence he
presumably would have given. He pro-
little that the Singapore Govern-
ment had not already published over the
past year. It consisted mostly of transla-
tions from “Utusan Melayu’s” editorials,
and reports of Dato Syed Jaafar Albar’s
speeches. “This is the sort of communal
propaganda being pumped into the Malay
villages. Malays are called upon to unite.”
He said seriously that “here, in Utusan
Melayu, is where the real message is
given by UMNO leaders.” In Parliament
they just paid lip-service to multi-racial-
ism. Mr Lee claimed that the extracts he
produced proved the existence of a clear
intention and systematic policy to build
up an atmosphere of communalism and
racialism. “Are we inflaming passions by
pointing out what they are saying? Are
we the communalists? We have never
said ‘Chinese unite’, or ‘lndians unite’.
We have always said ‘Malaysians unite’.”
As expected, Mr Lee's amendment to
the King’s speech, regretting that the
Government “did not reassure the nation
that Malaysia will continue to progress
in accord with its democratic constitution,
to a Malaysian Malaysia . . .” was heavily
defeated by the powerful Alliance ma-
jority. A “Straits Times” editorial strongly
urged a “period of reflection while the
lessons of this debate are digested and a
resolve is born to strengthen Malaysia,
not weaken it, an effort to heal, not
destroy.”
Mr Lee looked jaunty and confident
as usual when he returned to Singapore.
He told reporters that the Parliamentary
session had been breezy, and all to the
good because “it has blown open cup-
board doors to disclose some musty
skeletons”. He felt it was a good begin-
ning to a new phase to consolidate Ma-
laysia. He reckoned that the important
point had been made that “all Malaysians
were co-owners of Malaysia and not
guests”. Mr Lee said he was confident
foolish things would not happen if good
sense prevails all round.
That, then, is the present situation of
the verbal war. Throughout the Parlia-
mentary battle the Tunku remained silent.
Many unofficial explanations were of-
fered. Lee’s friends claim that, in this
way, the Tunku indicated his disapproval
of UMNO extremism. One explanation is
probably as good as the other. Most ob-
servers felt the Tunku lost nothing politi-
cally by keeping out of what was a
rather bitter debate. What is of rather
more immediate concern is whether the
ultras, the zealots, the extremists, the
racists, the wild men, can keep silent, at
least during the Tunku’s absence in Lon-
don for the Prime Ministers’ Conference,
and later, perhaps, at Algiers. Malaysia’s
international image at this time is of
special importance.


FORUM
Sent Up
Australia’s 7000 Prisoners
By GORDON HAWKINS
HHo the general public prisons are places to keep people locked up. At any rate
it is only in regard to this function that they make headlines. Recently, for
example, in Melbourne there was the case of the prisoner with a wooden leg who
tried to burrow his way out of Pentridge Gaol. The preceding week cables from
England told of gaol-break plots involving Gordon Goody and James Hussey, two
of the principal “great train robbers Just before that, Sydney had a front-page
RAPE-KILLER BREAKS GAOL story.
Such stories as these conjure up a
fitful interest. But they do little to dis-
turb a long-standing fundamental apathy.
There are over 7000 people in Australian
prisons today. This is more than double
the number in 1939. Yet most Aus-
tralians are profoundly indifferent to the
working of their prisons.
As it happens even those who are
interested are unlikely to obtain much
worthwhile information. For the truth
is that the data required for measuring
the degree to which the declared aims
of the prison system are being achieved
are not made available in Australia to-
day. Although this demand for statistics
is no mere academic caprice. Institutions
which are maintained bv taxpayers’
money have a duty not only to inform
the public but also to study and evaluate
their efficiency.
But it would probably be wrong to
suggest that Australian penal institutions
lag behind the rest of the civilised world.
Living conditions may not be as good as
in some parts of the USA or Scandinavia
but they are often better than in the UK.
It is notable, too, that Australia has
experienced nothing like the ferocious
wave of prison uprisings which swept
the USA in the 1950 s or the more recent
riots In Canadian prisons.
To the outside observer the average
Australian prisoner appears to enjoy a
higher standard of living than his
opposite number in England. The food
is better cooked, more varied and plenti-
ful, the sanitary arrangements are more
hygienic and working conditions are
more tolerable. Yet this has very little to
do with penal policy. If Pentridge is
pleasanter than Pentonville this is
primarily a reflection on a lower level
of the fact that in general the Melburnian
is better off than the Londoner.
And imprisonment consists of more
than material conditions. It is the psy-
chological impoverishment and narrow-
ness of the life which is the most afflic-
tive aspect of the experiences for most
prisoners. This makes it very difficult
for an outside observer to assess the
character of a prison regime. Some, like
Arthur Koestler, can award Baedeker
stars, but he does so on the basis of
extensive experience as a prisoner. Of
course, even a superficial observer can
see that the routine in the intractables
section at NSW’s Grafton Gaol is ex-
tremely rigorous. But only twelve out of
the State’s daily average prison popula-
tion of three thousand are confined there.
The new penology
'C’or the rest one relies on imaginative
insight or the published writings of ex-
prisoners, and the post-war flood of books
by ex-convict authors in the UK (Frank
Norman, Brendan Behan, Peter Wilde-
blood, to mention only the best-sellers)
has not been paralleled here.
The fact is that here as elsewhere the
vast majority of prisoners serve their
sentences in large, overcrowded maximum
security prisons either inherited from or
modelled on those of the nineteenth cen-
tury. Thus over a thousand of NSW’s
three thousand prisoners are confined in
one institution: the State Penitentiary at
Long Bay. And throughout Australia
many thousands of relatively harmless
minor offenders are subjected to a dis-
cipline and incarcerated in conditions
which are necessary for only a small
minority of dangerously aggressive anti-
social individuals. It is probable that if
less men today leave prison deeply em-
bittered than in the past, relatively few
will have been much changed for the
better.
Yet again this is not the result of de-
liberate policy decisions. When Austra-
lian prison administrators meet for their
annual conferences (as they have been
doing since 1960) they express sentiments
as enlightened and adumbrate plans as
progressive as their opposite numbers
overseas. Like their colleagues in other
countries, they are considerably ahead of
popular opinion. None question the
view on which the policy of penal ad-
ministrators in most civilised countries
Is based: that the proper aim of the pri-
son system is to reform and rehabilitate
the criminal so that he may become
adjusted to society.
Of course, prison reform consists of
more than administrative decisions. And
not all prison officers share the views of
top administrators. Some of them re-
gard official policy as woolly and wrong-
headed. Nor is this surprising. Years
spent behind prison walls handling those
who are often difficult, resentful and
unstable, and sometimes dangerous, are
not calculated to nourish philanthropic
attitudes. But the gap between declared
policy and its implementation is not
peculiar to prisons. And although it is
true that some are attracted to this type
of work by the authoritarian structure
of their personalities, it is remarkable
how many prison officers, despite num-
berless rebuffs and provocations, remain
decent, tolerant and humane. The cyni-
cal, sadistic turnkeys common in gaol
stories and movies are comparatively rare
in real life. Few if any would want to
return to the conditions of even thirty
years ago.
And thirty years have seen vast
changes. In all States “the new penology”
is reflected, at different stages, in such
developments as the classification of pri-
soners and the provision of differential
systems of treatment; the specialisation of
prisons (e.g., the prison for homosexuals
at Cooma, NSW) and the development of
open prisons; the provision of trade and
vocational training courses and more
educational and recreational facilities. It
can be seen, too, in the elimination of
needless humiliations and indignities and
the introduction (in NSW and South
Australia) of such techniques as group
counselling whereby an attempt is made
to deal with inmates’ problems and enable
them to gain insight into their own
motivation. Moreover, some develop-
ments like the NSW Afforestation Camps
(“more like holiday lodges”, wrote a re-
porter recently), South Australia’s Cadell
Training Centre, Tasmania’s recently re-
constructed Hayes Farm Gaol, the Psy-
chiatric Section at Pentridge Prison, Mel-
bourne, compare favorably with anything
to be found overseas.
That more has not been done is due
principally to two factors. First, the
political fact that the voting of large
funds for the treatment of offenders
would occasion considerable resentment
on the part of the law-abiding citizens
who cannot get enough money for health,
housing, education and so on for them-
selves. It may also be, as some penal
reformers have argued, that the chronic
shortage of money for buildings and
other facilities derives in part from an
unacknowledged desire for revenge and
retribution. Secondly, the present organ-
isation for penal institutions on a State


basis results in a considerable multiplica-
tion of some facilities (e.g., for maximum
security detention) and at the same time
restricts the development of specialised
institutions which could only be afforded,
and indeed are only required, at the
Federal level.
The second factor is peculiar to the
Australian situation where there is to
central prison administration.
This is unfortunate for two reasons.
In the first place, it is clear to anyone
without a vested interest that both the
scope and efficiency of correctional
organisation could be vastly increased if
it were administered under Common-
wealth control. Secondly, attempts to
study the operation of imprisonment as
a penal method are frustrated here by
the multiplicity of agencies and in par-
ticular by the lack of uniform statistics.
Some general figures relating to im-
prisonment in Australia are obtainable,
however. The most portentously signifi-
cant are those indicating the proportion
of prisoners in gaol to the total popula-
tion. For it is clear that whilst the
absolute numbers in gaol have steadily
risen over the course of the century the
rate of imprisonment has declined
sharply. This marked long-term trend
is probably largely due to the increased
use of alternative methods of dealing
with offenders probation and parole,
committal to youth institutions and
mental hospitals, etc. And it may be
welcomed as evidence of growing
enlightenment.
But it can be of little comfort to those
who administer and man the prisons.
For whilst the courts increasingly impose
fines, put offenders on probation and
use imprisonment only as a last resort,
prisons will continue to get those who are
left. And herein lie the seeds of our
prison problems of the future. For the
number of prisoners continue to swell
and amongst them, to a much greater
degree than ever before, will be the un-
stable ones, the dangerous one, the
recidivists, the hard core of intractables.
The Other Chemical War
Killing pests ... and wildlife
By H. LOFTUS HILLS
biologists doubt that mankind would soon be facing starvation on a catastrophic
scale but for the availability of modern synthetic insecticides. As it is, their wide-
spread use does not stop pests devouring about one third of man's food between the
sowing of crops and pastures and the time the final product reaches the dining-table
or rice bowl.
The dependence of our food supplies
upon pest control is strikingly illustrated
by a World Health Organisation estimate
that without these compounds produc-
tion in the United States of potatoes,
apples, citrus fruits, and cotton would
fall by at least 50 per cent, and of meal,
wool, and meat by at least 30 per cent.
Japan has been able to feed her rapidly
expanding post-war population because
of an increase of 30 per cent in the rice
crop due almost entirely to the use of
a synthetic insecticide related to the
deadly nerve gases.
It all began in Switzerland more than
20 years ago with the discovery by Dr
Paul Muller that an organic chemical
now universally known as “DDT” had
astonishing insecticidal properties. Not
only did it kill a very great range of
insects at extremely low concentrations,
but it remained active for long periods
after application.
DDT appeared in the nick of time
so far as the Allied war effort in the
Pacific was concerned. For the first time,
mosquito control became possible on a
vast scale and armies operating in the
tropics no longer faced decimation by
malaria and other insect-borne diseases.
In the post-war period tens of millions
of lives have been saved by the use of
DDT and related insecticides in tropical
areas, where mosquito-borne diseases
formerly accounted for 50 per cent of
all deaths.
In those early days it seemed that
man at long last had a means of ridding
himself once and for all of his insect
enemies.
But gradually difficulties began to
arise. Insect populations evolved which
could tolerate more than the economic
doses of some of the new chemicals.
Another unforeseen result of the use
of the miraculous new insecticide was the
coincident killing of the natural enemies
of many pests. In some instances, the
balance of pest populations and their
parasites was so altered that in the
longer term the total insect toll was
accentuated.
As greater and greater quantities of
these highly toxic chemicals were released
into the environment it became in-
creasingly evident that the persistence and
indestructibility that was so advantageous
so far as control was concerned was
having widespread biological effects far
beyond the immediate pest situation.
An increasing awareness of the poten-
tial threat to health and to man’s en-
vironment from this creeping chemical
pestilence followed the publication of
the late Rachel Carson’s “Silent Spring”.
Such statements as “It is our alarming
misfortune that so primitive a science
(entomology) has armed itself with the
most modern and terrible weapons, and
that in turning them against the insects
it has also turned them against the
earth” alienated many of her fellow
biologists, infuriated the agricultural
chemical industry, and frightened the
public.
The impact of Miss Carson’s picture
of a world devastated by man-made
poisons was positive and far-reaching. It
led to revised thinking on pest control
in technical circles and research pro-
grammes were oriented to a search for
non-chemical means of control. For
instance, in a brief period of five years
the entomological research programmes
of the United States Department of
Agriculture moved from an almost total
preoccupation with chemical methods to
a stage where more than half their
effort was directed to alternatives.
Australia has not escaped. Stricter
tolerances for pesticide residues in meat
and other products enforced by many
importing countries have led to local
regulatory action to preserve markets.
For instance, DDT is no longer used
for dipping in our cattle tick areas.
New Zealand even regulates the grazing
of pastures following spraying to control
grass grubs.
Generally speaking, however, we have
been rather slow to react to world think-
ing on the dilemma between food pro-
duction and human health and welfare.
The National Health and Medical Re-
search Council has a sub-committee on
toxic residues in vegetables and food and
a Victorian committee is currently in-
vestigating the threat in that State. But
the pace seems leisurely and alarm, if
it exists at all, is confined mainly to
official circles.
Last month the Australian Academy
of Science held a symposium at Can-
berra to consider the technical and re-
search aspects of the dilemma. Although
most of the facts and views presented
were old hat so far as the general situa-
tion is concerned, the meeting served a
useful purpose in informing science
policy - makers, many of whom are
academicians, of the current situation.
CSIRO played a major part. Dr D.
F. Waterhouse, Chief of the Organisa-
tion’s Division of Entomology, first set


the stage by explaining why chemicals
must continue to be used if mankind is
to be fed, even at the present meagre
average level. He left the audience in
no doubt as to the power and potential
for destruction of man’s insect enemies.
Their reproductive power is astronomical.
Given adequate food and space a pair
of blowflies could multiply within a year
to the stage where their descendants
weighed as much as the earth! Single
vast swarms of locusts can eat as much
as 5 million men can in a day! The cattle
tick costs Australia £l5 million per year!
The sheep blowfly, £lO million.
Dr Waterhouse offered a long-term
solution. In fact, he claimed that
CSIRO’s approach to pest control has
always minimised the role of chemicals
and involved the concept of “total”
attack. Chemicals may be of relatively
minor importance in the control effort.
Professor S. E. Wright, of Sydney
University, spoke of the effect of pesti-
cide chemicals on man. Surprisingly, he
left the impression that facts were few
and far between and much of the scare
accusations have been based on conjec-
ture rather than proven fact. For in-
stance, although most humans now carry
DDT stored in their fatty tissues, there
is no evidence that it does any harm.
In fact, said Professor Wright, man
appears to be in no immediate danger
from pesticides.
The main damage so far seems to be
to fish, birds and other wildlife. Dr
Harry Frith, Chief of CSIRO’s Wildlife
Division, quoted quite a few facts from
overseas sources that shattered com-
placency. A classical early example
occurred in the United States where a
popular fishing lake was sprayed from
the air with DDT to control the gnats
that were making conditions unpleasant
for sporting fishermen. The end result
was that the fish died and there was no
longer any need to. control the gnats!
The best informed opinion is that we
shall have to use chemicals for a very
long time, if not indefinitely, to control
many pests. But we must find ways of
using them so that they don’t contami-
nate the environment. Many new tacti-
cal weapons are emerging from current
research. These include the control of
insect reproduction by release of radia-
tion-treated sterile males, the use of
sterilising chemicals of low toxicity, and
a rising tide of synthetic insect scents
for use as lures to narrow insecticide tar-
gets or to confuse and disorganise the
olfactory-based reproductive, feeding,
and social systems upon which the sur-
vival of many insect species depend.
But can there really be any doubt of
the verdict if mankind at some future
time should be forced to choose between
starvation and the preservation of the
earth’s wildlife?
Letters
Adventists
SIR. We regret to note (8., June 5)
a partial reprint from the “Anglican
Church News” (Tasmania) dated May,
1965, of a grave misrepresentation of
Seventh-day Adventist mission collectors
in particular and the church in general.
The original article is not only untrue
but its general tone reflects unfavorably
upon the integrity of this denomination.
Serious objection is taken to those por-
tions of the article which allege deception
and dishonesty on the part of our repre-
sentatives. I wish to inform you, Sir,
that there is no organization within the
Seventh-day Adventist church known as
the “ABM” (Adventist Board of Mis-
sions). Our Mission Board is designated
the “Seventh - day Adventist Mission
Board”. All of those taking part in our
Missions Appeal are identified by official
collectors’ cards, lapel ribbons, receipt
books and magazines, upon, or in
which, is clearly stated that they are
acting on behalf of the Seventh-day Ad-
ventist Mission Board. These accusations
against the Seventh-day Adventist church
are not new for they have occurred in
the past. In association with Anglican
authorities we have investigated such
charges without discovering one iota of
truth in them. We regret that some
within a Christian body would publish
such untrue and unkind charges without
any foundation of fact. We leave it to
our friends and neighbors in Australia,
and to the many supporters of our Mis-
sion Appeal to determine for themselves,
on the basis of their personal knowledge
of us, and material placed in their hands,
whether or not we have suffered an un-
charitable and unwarranted attack.
Our mission programme is one of the
most expansive among protestant de-
nominations. This can be evinced by
reference to information supplied by the
Australian Board of Missions in 1959
which revealed that there were 74 mis-
sionaries employed by the ABM in the
New Guinea area compared with 125
working in the same territory on behalf
of the Seventh-day Adventist Mission
Board.
PASTOR R. R. FRAM, Secretary
Seventh-day Adventist Mission Board.
Wahroonga (NSW).
An Exaggeration
SIR.—I wish to disassociate myself from
the exaggeration of my role in the de-
velopment of social psychiatry in Aus-
tralia, which appeared in the article en-
titled “Healing the Mad”. (8., June 5.)
DR N. T. YEOMANS
Director, Fraser House
North Ryde (NSW).
Extra Jesuits
SIR.—I noticed a few errors of fact in
Peter Gough’s otherwise interesting and
balanced article (“The Priest’s Story”,
8., June 5). As I have a brother in
the Society of Jesus I checked up on
Mr Gough’s comments on the Jesuits.
There are 222 Jesuit Priests in the Aus-
tralian Province (not 90) and, apart from
Secondary Colleges, the Jesuits are in
charge of five University Colleges.
DAVID STOREY
Hawthorn (Vic.).
Not Up Town
SIR-—We read with interest Batman s
article (8., June 5) on Melbourne City
Development, but especially the sentence
saying: “Eric White & Associates in a
cloud of handouts last week announced
the formation of the Up Town Associa-
tion”. Modesty prevents us from accept-
ing the accolade. We have never heard
of the Up Town Association.
HAL MYERS
Director, Eric White Associates Ltd
Sydney (NSW).
Converting Decimals
SIR- The widely publicised conversion
table showing ld.=lc., 2d.=2c., 3d.==
2c., 4d.=3c., etc. was described by the
seven-member 1960 Decimal Currency
Committee (which recommended the
change to decimal coinage) as unrealis-
tic in terms of actual prices, but the
Decimal Currency Board has now pro-
claimed it as “a conversion guide to
approximate relative values”. Everyone
must wholeheartedly agree with the
1960 committee’s unanimous decision
that it is unrealistic (it is also mislead-
ing) to suggest that articles now selling
for 2d. and others selling for 3d. are both
approximately the same value as 2 cents
(which is worth exactly 2.4 d.). Two cents
can hardly be worth either 2d. or 3d.
even though the accounting profession
has passively accepted this rule for dual
currency recording purposes. Consider-
ing the continued widespread use of
halfpennies in the retail prices of beer,
bread, milk, petrol and groceries, it is
surely pointless for the Decimal Cur-
rency Board to continue to ignore them
in its public education programme.
It is imperative for the Australian con-
sumer to be provided with an accurate
scale showing the relative values of all
units of both currencies. To date the
Australian public has displayed an
apathetic attitude toward the subject of
decimal currency, but I am sure its
interest will be well and truly aroused
if Mr Walter Scott (the chairman of
both the 1960 committee and the present
board) has sufficient courage to reveal
how his board reached the decision that
his committee’s unrealistic table is now
suitable as a guide.
R. W. PARRY, FCA
Melbourne.


BRAMBLES
NEW
FAMOUS BRANDS USE BRAMBIES
S & L
Australian Owned—Australia Wide
[p| 2. No. 3.
June, 1965.
Today’s world is a world of brand names
and trademarks; some little known,
others known and recognised across the
nation.
Stewarts & Lloyds (Distributors) Pty.
Ltd., are one of the oldest and largest
steel distributors in Australia. Their “S
& L” branded tubes, pipes and fittings
are renowned for quality and reliability.
In Sydney, a fleet of Brambles vehicles is
on permanent hire to Stewarts & Lloyd’s
at their St. Leonards premises. Their
capacities range from 2 to 20 tons. At
peak periods additional units are supplied
by Brambles’ Sydney fleet, to ensure
customer satisfaction in the continuous
flow of supplies. This is a varied opera-
tion on a constant day-to-day basis; there
is the need to handle a multitude of small
deliveries of steel fittings, many varieties
of pipes and tubes and the long, heavy
and awkward loads.
This type of day-to-day movement of all
types of manufactured and processed
goods, from salt to soup to steel, is the
very basis of the Transport Division of
Brambles. The enormous low-loaders
carrying steel fabrications and giant-
sized industrial equipment are, individu-
ally, impressive to see, but the steady,
stream of dry freight from town to town,
city to city and State to State, is not only
the core of Brambles’ business but of
the Australian economy.


PICKRELL’S MAKE TANKS ALL WAYS...
Tall tanks, thin tanks, tanks on their sides,
tanks on wheels; W. G. PICKRELL, Brambles’
Steel Fabrication Unit make them all . . . to
suit the site or the client’s need.
FOR THE WINE INDUSTRY
Pickrell’s have manufactured and installed stainless steel
tanks for wine storage, with a total capacity of 200,000
gallons, during the past twelve months. The tanks range
in size from 1,800 gallons to 10,800 gallons.
Illustrated are a set of tanks each of 10,800 gallon
capacity in light gauge stainless steel, which were designed
by Pickrell’s to stand on skin strength, without any
stiffening or supporting structure. The design reduces
weight and is replacing glass lined tanks of mild steel
and concrete, and gives greater durability at a
comparable cost.
The interior of the tanks features a sloping floor for
complete drainage and a leakproof door to give access
for cleaning. An observation window allows inspection
of the contents.
FOR THE SUGAR INDUSTRY
A tank on its side, weighing fifteen tons and fourteen
feet in diameter was constructed by W. G. Pickrell for
Federated Engineers Ltd., for installation at Farleigh Sugar
Mills in North Queensland. The tank is a mud filter
and despite its massive appearance, is of intricate design.
The mud filter is an important part of the sugar mill
and separates from the sugar juices, the mud, sand and
other impurities from the cane field.
The filter fabricated by Pickrells contains 616 square
feet of filtering area.
FOR THE ROAD
W. G. Pickrell is constructing two stainless steel road
tankers, each of 5,500 gallon capacity. The tankers will
be used by Liquid Cartage Company, and were designed
by Brambles Manufacturing Division.
The photograph shows the fibre glass insulation which
is fitted around the stainless steel vessel before the tanker
is finally sheathed with aluminium.
The tankers are suitable for the cartage of a wide variety
of products, especially those which may be corrosive or
which require a high degree of cleanliness. Each tanker
has six compartments, separated by double bulkhead coffer
dams between compartments two and three, and single
bulkheads between the remaining compartments.
The double bulkhead will prevent contamination even
though two distinctly different products are carried
in the one load.


MIGHTY
OAKS
FROM
LITTLE
ACORNS
GROW
An artist's impres-
sion of the completed
Australia Square
Tower building.
Brambles Industrial Services in
Sydney recently helped in the
birth of one of Sydney’s most
striking buildings, the circular
tower of the Australia Square
project.
From the small circle of found-
ations, shown in the photo-
graph, will rise the tall building
which will dominate Sydney’s
skyline. Brambles teamed with
Civil & Civic Contractors Pty.
Ltd., for the job.
Civil & Civic have used
Brambles on the majority of
their prestige sky scraper pro-
jects in Sydney, including:
Stage 1 of Australia Square
La Salle Centre
Consolidated Press headquarters
Commercial Union building
Caltex House
GOING UP! . . . 80 FEET
Another job by Brambles Industrial Services in
Sydney was on the site of the largest ready mix
concrete plant in the Southern Hemisphere, at
Alexandria. The plant is being constructed for
Ready Mixed Concrete Industries and will be able
to produce more than 300 cubic yards of concrete
per hour. The plant will replace several smaller
units at present in use in the city area.
Brambles Industrial Services carried out earth-
works during site preparation for the foundations
and a rail siding which will handle between 1,000
and 2,000 tons of concrete material each day.
The heavy 15-ton lower bin section was trans-
ported to the site by Brambles Transport and the
Crane Division of Brambles Industrial Services
lifted the bin 80 feet into position.
The combination of services by Brambles enabled
Ready Mixed Concrete to keep well up to schedule
with the project.
Two fifteen ton cranes with 90 feet jibs
place the 15 ton lower mixing bin section
of the concrete plant into position.


90 TONS ON 58 WHEELS
Brambles are speeding construction work at
the Lake Munmorah Power Station south of
Newcastle.
The picture shows a 90-ton suction cutter
dredge which Thiess Bros, are using to cut water
canals for the power station. Thiess Bros, plan-
ned on dismantling the dredge to move it around
the power station site, but with advice and help
by Brambles, the unit was moved complete,
saving thousands of pounds and many hours
of work.
The dredge is 68 feet long and 22 feet wide
and had to be moved on a 58-wheel transporter
assembly. The dredge was first used for cutting
a channel from the end of the outfall water canai
which flows into Tuggerah Lake, then for a
channel from the Power Station to Budgewoi to
allow water to flow through Tuggerah Lake to the
adjoining Lake Munmorah. Brambles then moved
it six miles to the shores of Lake Munmorah.
where the dredge is being used to cut channels
to the intake water canal of the power station.
FAMOUS PLANE GOES BY BRAMBLES
The first single-engined plane to fly from England
to Australia travelled by road to Bathurst on two
Brambles semi-trailers for the Bathurst Sesqui-
centenary celebrations.
The flight from England was made in 1920 and
the plane was flown by Ray Parer and the late
Lieutenant J. C. McIntosh. They established
several records in the course of their remarkable
journey. The plane was selected from Air Min-
istry disposal stock and was not intended for
such a severe test as a flight to Australia.
It was the first single-engined plane to cross the
Mediterranean or to fly to Egypt, the first aero-
plane to cross the Syrian desert and it made the
longest non-stop flight of its time — nine hours
from Timor to Darwin.
The Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd. sponsored the carrying of the plane from the
Australian War Memorial in Canberra to Bathurst.
The plane formed part of the R.A.A.F. display at
the Bathurst celebrations.
Ray Parer's famous plane arrives in Bathurst.
The fuselage was carried on one Brambles
vehicle and the wing sections on the second.


Mrs. Bell’s Else
A SHORT STORY BY KAY BROWN
Mum always reckoned some high-up
in the Railway had a set on Dad
—the places he got transfers to.
The time we got to Copper Top she just
looked round and said:
“Well this must be the end of it,
anyhow.”
“The end of what?” Dad asked her,
grinning. He enjoys Mum.
“Whatever it was got the goat of who-
ever it was that’s had you set,” Mum
said. “Anyway, it’ll be finished now,
that’s one comfort.”
“How d’you make that out?”
“Easy. Look round. Sending anyone
to live here would square off for murder
—and you never killed anyone did you?”
Dad just laughed about that.
Just about everything was wrong for
Mum there. Milk was a big trouble.
Everyone at the Top milked goats but
Mum couldn’t stand that or the tinned
stuff so we went across to ask Fletchers
at the store did they know anyone around
would sell us cows.
“W-e-e-11, I dunno.” Mr Fletcher sort
of sing-songed the way he had. We kids
liked Mr Fletcher. He was all sandy-
colored. His hair and his washed-faded
clothes, and the big greasy hat he had on
all the time, pushed far back off his high,
thin forehead, where a layer of blotched
freckles like thick peanut paste was
spread all over his face and down his
neck and the backs of his skinny hands.
Mr Fletcher only had one other color
but sandy about him —his eyes. They
were tiny and blue and twinkly, peeping
out of little nests of wrinkles. He chiacked
kids that went in the store. Mrs Fletcher
didn’t. She just watched them. All the
time, hard.
“Might be you could get cows off
Bell’s now,” Mr Fletcher told Mum.
“I would be glad. Could you get a
message to them to see?” Mum asked
him.
“W-e-e-11, I dunno. Try,” he said, and
behind him Mrs Fletcher snorted. She
was solid and stood very straight. She
wore awful pattern material aprons
hanging right down over her back and
front.
“I make them up outer the stuff
doesn’t sell,” Mrs Fletcher told Mum
gloonnly. Well you could see the pat-
terns she wore never would sell. Not
even to the Blacks. They were awful.
“Ye-eah. I reckon Ir-ee-en might serve
y* cows,” Mr Fletcher said again to
Mum. “Th’ Old Girl fetches it t’ the
Pub’ and th’ Pleece.”
“Sn-pfhrmm” Mrs Fletcher snorted
behind him, banging away at things on
the shelves. Mr Fletcher just never list-
ened to her at all though.
“He just lays there,” Mrs Fletcher
told everyone. “Snorting”,
“Well, I’d be very grateful if you
could get a message for me,” Mum told
them. Mr Fletcher said he would.
Bell’s trap stopped next morning and
Mum went out. Mrs Bell thanked her
kindly, but she couldn’t come in for a
cuppa. Her horse was fresh and she
couldn’t leave it. They talked about us
getting the milk and what price. Mrs
Bell was small and neat and very clean-
looking with a tidy print dress and a
leather belt round it and another round
the man’s felt riding hat she had on.
Her hair looked nice in a bun and her
eyes were brown and fine and her voice
nice. There was a girl in the trap, too.
Dot Fletcher was playing in our place
and she said “Come down and see Bell’s
Else she’s a real scream. C’mon.”
Their Else was sitting in the trap look-
ing like a doll, I thought. She had such
a pretty dimity dress with little puff
sleeves and tiny bows the same blue as
the rosebuds in the pattern—and her
eyes. She was the whitest girl you ever
saw. Her face was dimpled and pink and
white and her hands were small, plump
and square looking and so were her fat
little feet in very white socks and sand-
shoes. She had an enormous straw hat
shading her like a big parasol. She
giggled when I said “Hello” and Mrs Bell
looked round sharply from where she
was holding the horse’s bridle short. Then
Else leaned over out of the trap and put
her finger on my new cinch belt.
“Pretty,” Else said like a baby would,
and I saw her eyes had a sort of film
over them like new puppies so she didn’t
seem to be in there when you looked at
her.
Mrs Bell bustled round beside us and
tucked something or other up and fussed
round patting Else with her hard brown
hands as if she was fixing a doll. Then
she climbed in the trap beside her and
waved to us after telling Mum she would
serve us cows every day except Sundays.
“I like to Observe,” Mrs Bell said to
Mum.
“The children could come over for it.
The walk would be good for them.”
As soon as the trap went Mrs Fletcher
popped over.
“You seen that girl? Awful thing
that, eh? Mindjoo, I feel sorry for that
old thing in spite of the way she’s so
damn bossy. All them Bells are. Think
a lot of themselves, that mob. She mar-
ried her own cousin just to keep the
name Bell, they reckon —must have been
what fixed that girl, eh?” ,
Mum said she couldn’t say.
Mrs Fletcher always breathed in big
loud gasps after she popped over to call
and she “had to take spells between
things”, she said to Mum.
“Mindjoo, they had a few bad trots.
Have to feel sorry that way. But cocky!
You can’t touch her. Come within a
mile and she’ll make you sit up. Every-
one says the same. Her old man spoiled
her to hell when she was a kid. They
had plenty then of course—sent her way
down to them big schools and all . .
Mum said “Oh fancy.”
“Went broke in the middle of all that
but. Old Grandfather had a stroke and
died sudden and the son wasn’t nearly
the man his Dad was with the place—
easy seen eh? Irene had to come back
and get stuck into the whole managing.
Stockwork too. Good’s a man anywhere
on the place they all reckon. Then this
girl grew like that and when they had
her at school it all come out once.
Hopeless, that’s what the kid is . .
Mrs Fletcher breathed some more.
Mum just said “M-mmm?”
“Yeah. Got in with a mob of ringers
down the creek one day cornin’ home
and went right off with them too . .
Mum said “Vera, you go over the store
and get me four pounds of sugar.”
But Dot told me what else Mrs Fletcher
would say about Bell’s Else going off with
those drovers and the Sergeant going and
fetching her back in his ute and Else not
coming back to school after.
“Anyway Mum says you never can do
anything with them sort,” Dot said.
“She’s real batty only the old girl just
won’t let on she knows it.”
The boys went to Bell’s for the milk
one week and Mrs Fletcher let Dot come
with me on my turn.
Bell’s place was along the high part
of a creek. The house was long and
high and had no paint anywhere—just a
sort of dry wooden color except where
green bushes and creepers covered parts.
There were big trees and lawns round
it but we never saw inside. “It’s all to


m
*fSk\ •3^.
l' ? * 1 ■ :4
? <*; < ;;
t *>«*«* *****
y ., 3yy*-*« ||j
!,*• 't
„<>*<sfe. fs#g
. TsB&>
f*:..
Just hold
an
Asahi Pentax
« . . and you begin to understand
why this camera is the ultimate
choice of discerning photographers
all over the world.
Asahi Pentax is a beautifully balanced
instrument. It’s smooth. Precise. Fast. And
incredibly accurate. The lenses give superb
performance. It’s easy to handle, too.
Meticulously built for constant use. Another
great Asahi Pentax advantage is its do-
anything versatility. The wide range of
accessories enables you to build up a com-
plete system which prepares you for *any
demand, from microphotography to extra
long range telephotography, high speed
action subjects to portraiture. Just hold an
Asahi Pentax at your dealer’s soon!
hell with ants inside, Mum says,” Dot
told me. Mrs Bell told Mum for us to
take the pad to their dairy and we did.
The dairy was a corrugated iron shed
whitewashed outside and in. It had a
concrete floor that was always just
hosed when we’d get there and our milk
would be on one of the newspaper
covered shelves in a clean billy waiting
for us.
Mrs Bell would give us pieces of
lovely, hot fresh bread with jam to eat
going back. Sometimes their Else would
be close to the dairy, and giggle at us a
bit, but mostly she would be down their
yard on a swing. I think Mrs Bell took
her and put her there when the dogs
barked at us coming.
Else always had a clean pretty dress
on and very white socks the same as the
days she came in the trap and she always
had those wide straw hats. Mum asked
Mrs Bell where she got them one day
and she said she made them herself out
of the river palms.
“I have to do that. You just can’t buy
a good big mushroom any more and our
Else is so lily-fair she burns right up if
I let the sun strike on her,” Mrs Bell
said smiling round at Else real lovingly.
“I’ll fetch you some palm leaves in one
day and show you the plaits—then you
just stitch them round and round.”
Mrs Bell did as she promised and
brought the big bundle of palm branches
in to Mum and she stayed a while that
day and had a cuppa and showed Mum
the plaiting and how to sew the hat
shape.
“You know, Col, I like the old thing.
She's a real lady when you get to know
her. Refined as anything. I was quite
surprised at her. You know—with that
dairy and her stockwork and that . . .”
“Glad to hear it,” Dad said grinning.
“Old Fletcher tells a tale or two about
them thinking pretty highly of ‘lr-een’
down at Melbourne Uni once upon a
time.”
“Goodness,” Mum said.
“Yes. Seemed she had ambitions to
be a teacher—then the bad trots started
and she came back.”
“Oh, the pour soul! No wonder . . .
it makes you want to cry.”
“I wouldn’t. The old girl doesn’t,
you’ll notice. As Fletcher says ‘She gets
some bad trots —Ir-een. But she rides
them out —she rides them out’.”
Mum never said anything back then.
But she always went out to talk with
Mrs Bell.
One Sunday our boys came home
later with the milk and laughing a lot
and they told Mum they’d had to wait
while Mrs Bell went after a fellow with
a stockwhip and hunted him along the
creek back to town.
“He’d taken their Else down the creek
while Mrs Bell was out after a killerr
By jirigs did she go the bloke,” they told
us.
Mum asked Dad if he thought it was
all right for the children to go over to
Bell’s.
“Why not? The sight of a grand old
girl like that one whaling into a galoot
wouldn’t do them any harm that I can
see,” Dad said, so we still went to Bell’s
of a Sunday but their Else was never out-
side much after.
npHEN the end of the year came and the
A wet set in. It rained and rained for
days and the rivers and creeks roared
along full to the tops of their banks. So
we went back on to tinned milk again.
When the river went down a bit Mr
Bell drove over one day with the milk.
Then he came every day and when Mum
asked after Mrs Bell he just said The
Missus was a bit under the weather these
days.
Mum asked him could she do anything
if she went over but he said a bit ner-
vously “No thank you kindly, he’d get
going. The Missus wouldn’t care to be
any trouble.”
Mrs Fletcher popped right over after
that and she was puffing real loud and
excited and asked Mum had Mr Bell
said anything.
“No, why?”
“We-ell, I been thinking. You never
know do you it could be she’s you
know like that. Never knew HER to get
sick a day in her life. Only time she
ever kept home like this was when their
Else was coming. She’ll be about —let
me see, yes, forty-four this year—well
my Mum was over that when she had
my Brother Lonnie ...” _
“Vera, go to the store and get me two
dozen packets of matches,” Mum said.
Dot said her Mother couldn’t get hold
of anyone that had been past Bell’s place
or over there lately but when her Uncle
Lonnie got in he’d be sure and go for
her, she reckoned.
So Mrs Fletcher never popped in our
place for awhile. Then Lonnie did get
in and he went over to Bell’s to get a
killer. Mrs Fletcher was breathing so
hard when she got in our kitchen after
he came back that all the things near
her moved from it.
“You know WHAT!” she told Mum.
“It’s THAT ELSE of theirs. True’s life.
Lonnie said he rode up the back way and
he seen her as plain as day—she’d be
about . . .”
“Vera, you go across and play with
Dot for a bit,” Mum said and as I went
past the window Mrs Fletcher was saying
“Be about eight months too. And you
wouldn’t know if they even knew . . .
Well, you can’t do a thing with that
sort —not after they get the taste for
it like that . . .”
In the store everyone talked like Mrs
Fletcher did about Bells and their Else—
you could hear them all every time you
were there. Only Mr Fletcher would
never them all. He would
lean over the counter and look out across
the red dirt track and just say sing-
song—
“ We-ell I dunno. Never see her
meself —did yous?”
But only Mrs Fletcher’s brother Lonnie
—“A nohoper if ever there was one”


Only Canadian Pacific Super DC-8 jets fly the
exclusive Polar Route —non-stop from Vancouver to
Amsterdam! It’s 1,000 miles shorter than via
Eastern Canada! Fly direct to Amsterdam —connect-
ing point en route to London. Round-world economy
fare, including connecting carrier, £598/10/-. See
your travel agent for details.
Offices: Sydney, Melbourne and around the world. Contact Ansett-ANA
(General Sales Agents) or your travel agent. Air cargo carried on all flights.
AIRLINES
(Incorporated in Canada, liability of members limited), Planes/Trains/Trucks/
Ships/Hotels/Telecommunications. World’s most complete transportation
system.
IHI
H
mm
m.
r..'
...
Dad said about HlM—had done any
seeing.
Mrs Fletcher would swell and her
breath get higher and higher when Mr
Fletcher talked out like that too. She
would snort and puff behind him and I
even saw his hat move on his head by
her breath once. But he never cared
or listened to her.
One morning Mr Bell stopped with the
milk' and he took off his hat and stood
grinning at Mum and then he said:
“Thought I’d tell y’. We got a new
little sister up to our place. Come last
night. Lovely little thing she is too —
course not as pretty as our Else —but
then Mum always did say never a baby
anywhere could ever hold a candle to
our Else for looks y’ know.”
Mum spilt the milk. “Why—er. Oh
fancy. I am so glad and is are they
quite all right. I mean help and that —do
you need anyone?” She got all flounder-
ing with the surprise and I knew she
was feeling she wanted Dad to say what
to do.
Mr Bell smiled widely. “Oh, no, thank
you kindly. Mum gets all those things
fixed early. I can manage to do for them
real good meself.” He smiled again and
climbed in the trap and went off.
You could tell Mum wouldn’t have
cared for Mr Bell’s “doing”. Mrs
Fletcher was there almost behind the
trap as it left.
“WELL!” She breathed into our
kitchen so it almost shook the wall.
“WELL, can you beat THAT. DO YOU
RECKON THAT OLD THING CAN
GET AWAY WITH THAT?”
Mum never answered. She turned and
did things about the stove. She even
forgot to send me for a message so I
knew she was real upset.
Mrs Fletcher caught some more wind
in and went on, in short gasps. “Who
does she think she is? All them Bells
are like that. Bossy as hell and reckon
they can do as they damn please. Cheek.
Reckon the Law ought to fix her for it,
don’t you?”
The next week Bell’s trap stopped and
Mrs Bell was in it and their Else and
the little baby. We went out and Mrs
Bell got down and showed us the little
thing. It had a lovely shawl and silk
set and looked fresh and bonny, and I
noticed its eyes were clear and fine like
Mrs Bell’s were. Their Else had a new
dress too, the prettiest pink and beauti-
fully made with a cinch belt like mine.
Else pointed at her belt and smiled at
me and I said “Oh yes, Else, it’s very
pretty,” and she giggled and seemed
pleased.
Mrs Bell was showing Mum the baby
real proudly and then she brought it
round and tucked it into their Else’s arms.
“Else just loves Little Sister” Mrs Bell
beamed. “I think it’s what she’s always
been wanting—something special to love,
you know.”
Mum said, “Yes, I daresay,” very low
and when Bell’s trap went off Mum went
quickly over to Dad’s Office (so’s Mrs
Fletcher couldn’t pop over, I bet). She
and Dad talked for a bit and I heard
her say to him:
“Oh Col, what on earth could I do?
That poor thing seemed so proud—truly
I think she thinks it herself . . . Oh, it’s
awful . . .”
Dad said “Shush, you goose. Don’t
worry so. There’s no need. You can’t
beat the old girl. As Fletcher says ‘She
gets some bad trots Ir-een. But you
can’t throw her —she keeps a holt’,” he
chuckled.
Bells brought the baby in their trap
every day and it grew fat and lovely.
Everyone spoke about how beautifully
Mrs Bell kept it. When a Minister came
through they got the little thing christen-
ed “Sylvia” but somehow we all just
called her “Little Sister” the way Bells
did.
Except Mrs Fetcher, of course. She
always snorted “That Sister of Bell’s.”


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Back in his
Bailiwick
By PATRICIA ROLFE
The only real proof we have that
“My Fair Lady” isn't still playing
one of J. C. Williamson’s well-
loved revival seasons is that Mr Robin
Bailey is producing and playing the
leading role in Phillip’s production of “A
Severed Head”.
Mr Bailey feels that “A Severed Head”,
which had a mixed initial reception, is
going “beautifully” now.
“It is a play in which things happen
at such a pace that it takes a long time
to get it going technically,” he said. “I
feel that each performance is rather like
making a full-length film in one day.”
Mr Bailey said he felt the play showed
one of the effects of films and television
on audiences that action is speeded
up considerably.
“Twenty years ago audiences W'ould
have sat quite happily for five minutes
or more while the scenery was changed,”
he said. “But no more. You say to your-
self, nothing has happened for five
seconds, and you get terrified. Every
second counts. It makes for a much more
athletic style of acting.”
Mr Bailey said that “A Severed Head”
began very slowly in London and the
impresario, Donald Albery, still says
it is the only play that has ever succeeded
for him without one favorable criticism
in the popular Press.
Mr Bailey said he believed that the
division of labor between the authors
had been that Miss Iris Murdoch, who,
he said, “knows nothing about the
theatre,” had done a stage version of her
novel on the prompting of friends. This
had been unplayable and then Mr J. B.
Priestley had been called on for a full-
scale job of carpentering. Miss Murdoch,
Mr Bailey said, still bemoaned the loss
of some of her finer thoughts.
Mr Bailey, now 12,000 safe miles from
Miss Murdoch, has done a bit of post-
first-night whittling himself.
Mr Bailey feels that Phillip Produc-
tions took a considerable risk in bringing
“A Severed Head” to Australia. “It is
such an English play,” he said.
It is one of life's little ironies that Mr
Bailey came here first with the Shakes-
pearian Company, headed by Robert
Helpmann and Katherine Hepburn, then
for “My Fair Lady”, which contained
Williamson's usual percentage of imports,
give or take one or two. Now he is play-
ing with a substantially Australian cast,
while his friend Robert Flemyng is play-
ing up the road in “Difference of
Opinion” with a dozen-odd Australians,
and all around them the surly chorus
rises: Why does Australia have to import
actors for these roles? And why aren’t
we seeing an Australian “Severed Head"?
Mr Bailey (whose answer to the in-
evitable, “Would you care to live in
Australia?” is a round, uncompromising
“No”) sees this as something like the
“artistic chauvinism” which he feels
assails the United States at the moment.
“There is an enormous resentment on
Broadway to British actors, playwrights
and directors because British plays have
been having successes and American
plays have not,” he said.
“But here, of course, the attitude
seems alarmingly ambivalent. On the one
hand, people are convinced that nothing
here is as good as, say, the West End.
Even if you brought out a complete cast
they would say: ‘They don’t really do
their best work in Australia; they play
down to us’. But the same people are
busily demanding that Australia should
stop importing actors.”
On the subject of why we are seeing
Iris Murdoch and J. B. Priestley’s “A
Severed Head” and not our very own
Aussie brand, Mr Bailey grows pensive
but has no real answers.
“Isn’t it about time that Australians
began to write plays about people and
not about Australians?” he asked. “Look
at the latest Australian play to be pro-
duced ‘Bandicoot on a Burnt Ridge’.
Honestly, you can't keep on like that
forever. Ray Lawler. It was a pity about
him. With ‘The Doll’ it looked as if
something had happened at last. Look
what has happened with Australian pain-
ters! People look at their works, buy
them as painters, not as Australians. It’s
hard to see why they won’t accept play-
wrights in the same way.”
Magnificent Obsessions
Sydney Film Festival.
It’s not possible as yet to sum up the
Sydney Film Festival, since it’s only
halfway over at the time of writing.
But so far it gives promise of being one
of the most interesting and most repre-
sentative to now.
Leaving aside the short films (which
I hope to talk about next week) the
feature-length films so far seen are varied
in style and subject. “Seance On A Wet
Afternoon” and “The Collector”, which
are probably the Festival's real plums,
have a general similarity, since each is
an examination of obsession, of a nor-
mal sentiment of love allowed to fester
into mental disease.
Yet how different is. their treatment!
Bryan Forbes in “Seance” treats his two
main characters with loving compassion,
whereas William Wyler in “The Collec-
tor” views his with clinical, even chilling
detachment. Both methods come off
brilliantly; each beautifully photographed
film convincingly establishes its indivi-
dual atmosphere, and each boasts an
irreproachable pair of central perform-
ances Kim Stanley and Richard At-
tenborough in “Seance”, Terence Stamp
and Samantha Eggar in “The Collector”.
A sleek, capable Russian film, “Nine
Days Of One Year” never quite faces
the problems it sets itself (are scien-
tists too detached from real life?, should
surgeons experiment on radiation vic-
tims? etc.) but it is smoothly pro-
duced and well acted.
I heard somebody describe Jacques
Demy’s “Lola” as “slight”, which is
probably the nearest you can come to
a kind word for it. This confused, man-
nered piece of rubbish is the story of a
faithful girl who, with her illegitimate
child, waits for her deserting lover to
return. Sure enough, he comes home
rich. “I almost lost faith in you,” con-
fesses the bemused girl.
One of the Festival’s most rewarding
films so far has been the Canadian drama
“Nobody Waved Goodbye”, a sensitive
and moving story of a youth's gradual
drift into delinquency. The director,
Richard Owen, originally intended this
for a short semi-documentary on the
work of probation officers, but became
so interested in the subject that “the
film just grew”.


The film is acted with extraordinary
realism, though some of the actual di-
rection in particular, Owen’s obses-
sion with the zoom lens is awkward
and amateurish. Yet this may be the
film that remains in the mind when more
technically accomplished productions are
forgotten.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
Persuasion
Melbourne Film Festival
The Melbourne Film Festival opened
with Olmi’s “II Posto . It is a
deceptively simple film which shows
a young boy seeking his first job
with a big company in Milan. Olmi uses
non-professional actors, simple situations,
and a straightforward camera and editing
technique. There is nothing exceptional
about these qualities, yet “11 Posto” is a
most persuasive film. This is due to
Olmi’s gentle humor in his attention to
minor details of his characters’ lives,
and the beautiful timing of action within
individual scenes.
The company’s New Year's Eve party
is worth special attention in studying
these qualities: the boy, Domenico,
arrives early. He is alone, but expects
to meet Antonietta, a girl for whom he
has an adolescent love. The hall is stark
and cold, promising a night of misery
for the boy. Other people arrive: elderly
clerks, young people, a senior official
and his wife. A few people begin to
dance. A suave, feline woman glances
at a rakish boy: her bored husband
stares at the table. Fellini would con-
centrate upon such a woman, Antonioni
upon her husband. Olmi shows us the
dancing, now rather sleazy, and returns
to Domenico. Though embarrassed he
dances with an older woman. Domenico,
affected by wine, dancing and noise,
becomes one of the mob. Antonietta is
almost forgotten.
Throughout this scene there is no
complex camera movement or editing.
But there is very careful lighting, beauti-
fully selected actions of the characters,
and, above all, perfect tempo. In
atmosphere it changes smoothly from
stark individual isolation to gregarious
anonymity.
Godard's “Bande A Pant” has been
the highlight at this festival so far. The
story is simple two men and a girl
plan to rob the girl's employers (she is
a housemaid, it appears). Both men
want the girl, Odile. She likes Arthur,
but Arthur is shot by his uncle during'
the robbery. The robbery fails. The
other man, Franz, takes Odile to South
America.
The story, however, is a minor element
of this complex film. The characters are
revealed through a variety of situations
and concentration upon the trivia in
their lives: scenes in cars, on river banks,
in cafes. There are several references
to the American Western: a game in
which Arthur mimes the death of Billy
the Kid; Arthur’s magnificently operatic
death throes when shot by his uncle.
Traditional art is referred to but is
almost affectionately thrown away:
Odile admiring the whitewash on the
Louvre; a race through the Louvre (“they
beat Jimmy Johnson by two seconds”).
A more subtle reference to traditional
art is the commentary of the film which
describes the characters’ feelings in 19th-
century prose.
Visually the film is strident. Charac-
ters stand out starkly against intense
white sets and washed-out backgrounds
in interior scenes, and sombre, grey
suburbia in the exteriors. The sound-
track is broken up into regular units
of dialogue, music, natural sound, com-
mentary and silences. This style is
married to the shifting levels of irony
throughout the film, many scenes being
comic and tragic at the same time.
Irony is finally played against the film
itself, for Godard always reminds us
that we are at the cinema: Odile once
looks straight at the camera and asks a
question; occasional passers-by look
straight at the camera in surprise. These
gestures are used with subtlety. It is a
measure of the film’s complexity that
it has no definable mood, yet its infinite
strands of feeling have complete
cohesion.
ROBERT GARLICK
Unlucky Jim
Lord Jim. Director Richard Brooks. Barclay
Theatre, Sydney.
John Goldfarb, Please Come Home. Direc-
tor, J. Lee Thompson. Regent Theatre,
Sydney.
The Train. Director, John Frankenheimer.
Embassy Theatre, Sydney.
The big, “important” film of the week is
“Lord Jim”—“head and shoulders above
the rest!” insists the publicity. But for
entertainment and excitement, not to
mention sheer cinematic skill, the other
two effortlessly leave it behind.
Richard Brooks has stated that he
read Conrad's novel some 20 times be-
fore making the film. Once would have
been enough provided he’d listened to
what it said. The resulting movie is not
only a travesty of the original it’s not
even very interesting or coherent in its
own right.
Though Conrad’s novels are, on the
surface, tales of derring-do on the high
seas, his chief concern was always with
what goes on in men’s hearts and minds.
Brooks has seen fit to concentrate on
the adventure-story part (indeed, he and
his scriptwriters have made it even more
penny-dreadful); for the rest, he and his
star, Peter O’Toole, give us a Jim who at
first behaves like a mental defective and
then (after his moment of cowardly
self-preservation) becomes a neurotic and
highly articulate victim of guilt. But the
real Jim was surely a simple man, victim
only of his own romantic vision of him-
self, which he had to justify at the ex-
pense of his life.
“John Goldfarb” has met with dis-
SAMANTHA EGGAR in William Wyler's "The Collector".


“With perishable exports going to 36 countries,
I need fast direct flights —and no delays.
Pan Am’s Cargo Service gives me just that!”
-—says Mr. Eddie Langbecker, Horticulturist, of Bundaberg, Queensland
1 “Freshness is a vital factor
in my business. That’s why direct
flights, and good connections through-
out the world, are so important. By
using Pan Am’s Cargo Service, I know
I can always deliver my orders on
time, in top condition, wherever I’m
sending them . . . Bermuda, Jamaica,
Rangoon, the U.S., Hong Kong.
“I send out over three hundred ship-
ments a year. They've proved Pan
Arn's worth as far as I’m concerned.
Even out-of-the-way places are no
trouble. Connections are always good.
Cargo handling’s first rate and nothing
gets misplaced or damaged. It’s the
kind of overall service that gives you
real confidence in an airline.”
Many Australian exporters, like Mr.
Langbecker, have placed their con-
fidence in Pan Am Clipper Cargo.
With good reason. They know that
with Pan Am, goods get there faster.
They know, too, that Pan Am's cargo
rates are at an all-time low. For more
details on Pan Am’s Cargo Service,
call your Pan Am cargo specialist at
Sydney Airport (67-1384), at 133 Ex-
hibition Street, Melbourne (63-9077),
or any office of Ansett-ANA, or your
regular air cargo agent.
First on the Pacific ...
First on the Atlantic . . .
First in Latin America . . .
First ’Round the World .. .
World’s largest Air Cargo carrier
World’s most experienced airline
PA4<wn


. •># X X. <• *
You are welcomed as a friend
at Tokyo’s Marunouchi Hotel
Coming to Japan? People who seem to
know you await your visit at-the Marunouchi
Hotel. We've had years of experience in
making Australian guests comfortable.
Conveniently located one block from
Tokyo Central Station, we offer the quiet
hospitality you've told us you like. Fine
food and modern facilities are only part
of the story.
You'll be pleased to find large-size beds,
individual air conditioning controls and
many other extras in your room. Come
sample the essence of Japanese "shibui"
at the Marunouchi Hotel.
DAILY ROOM RATES
All rooms with bath
Main Bldg. Singles A£2.4. 6~A£3. 9.4
Doubles A£4.1.10
Twins A£4.6. 9~A£4.14.3
Suites A£5.6. 8
New Bldg. Regular Rates Off-season Rates
Singles A£ 5. 6.8 A£4.14.3
Twins A£ 5.19.2 A£s. 6.8
Twins A£ 6.16.0 A£6. 3.7
Suites A£l2. 7.2
Management: T. KOBAYASHI & SON
Cable: MARUHOTE TOKYO Tel: 231-0271
<nl| n
C/||VD
OftxuXunmcldJJctet
approval and indeed a lawsuit in
America, apparently because it didn’t
treat the football team of Notre Dame
University with sufficient respect. The
Americans evidently take their univer-
sities seriously more so than they do
their State Department, which gets a
much louder Bronx cheer in the film.
The point to us here is that it’s an
extremely droll film, which, despite slap-
dash construction, is constantly surprising
and entertaining, with its combination of
knockabout farce and flashes of satirical
wit. Richard Crenna and Shirley Mac-
Laine bring charm and humor to the
leading romantic roles, and richly funny
performances come from Peter Ustinov
as a nutty Sultan and Wilfrid Hyde-
White as his cool, resigned Vizier.
Obviously, like all boys, John Franken-
heimer loves to play with trains, and he
has a fine time doing so in his newest
film, “The Train”, a thriller based on the
actual attempt by the Germans, just
before the liberation of Paris, to smuggle
out a load of art treasures.
An admirably economical and terse
director, Frankenheimer uses his camera
and natural sound to tell his story dia-
logue is at a minimum, and, as usual,
Frankenheimer keeps his actors (headed
by Burt Lancaster and Jeanne Moreau)
under strict control.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
MUSIC
Misadventure
Youth Concert. Sydney Symphony Orches-
tra. Conductor: Joseph Post. Soloist:
Jorge Bolet.
“Enthusiasm born of misadventure” is
perhaps the phrase best describing the
character of this concert. There was
obviously something amiss when, upon
opening the programme, we were greeted
by the beaming face of Joseph Post and
not, as expected, that of Dean Dixon.
This, however, was not to be the only
alteration to the programme. Orchestral
parts for Mohaupt’s “Townpiper Music”
did not arrive in time for rehearsal and
“Irkanda IV”, a shorter work by the
Australian composer Peter Seulthorpe,
was hastily substituted. Three instru-
mental dances from de Falla’s “Three
Cornered Hat” were added to draw the
concert out to an acceptable length.
After an appropriately swaggering
“Rienzi” Overture the orchestra settled
down to the task of accompanying Jorge
Bolet in the Schumann Piano Concerto.
Although the action of the piano gave him
a little trouble in the opening movement,
Bolet soon achieved a pleasing rapport
with the orchestra, especially in the
tender Intermezzo. Unfortunately, he
completely destroyed this impression by
grinding through the last movement in
a most heavy-handed manner.
Lack of sensitivity (but here under-
standable) through obvious unfamiliarity
was the only flaw in an otherwise
pleasing performance of Sculthorpe’s
“Irkanda IV”. The orchestra, drawing on
the experiences of only one rehearsal,
missed the dramatic bursts of sound
which punctuate the work, giving it the
necessary nodal points from which to
progress. This inattention to dynamic
markings tended to give the music a
narrower range of expression although
the work itself is a record of vast and
rapid changes in the feelings of the
composer.
The remarkably stark honesty, which is
reflected in the sureness and variety of
texture is a characteristic of Sculthorpe’s
best music and is notable also in the
recent Sixth String Quartet. Pureness
of sound, so refreshing in this age of
neurotically cluttered experimentation,
sets “Irkanda IV” apart as a work of
convincing personal expression.
DAVID SALTER
TELEVISION
Among the Giants
Recent weeks have been good ones for
documentary features on all channels.
I remember vividly a CBS interview with
Lord Avon, formerly Anthony Eden,
who appeared to vanish into obscurity
after Suez, but who was resurrected as
a shrewd commentator on the giants of
contemporary history. The fact that the
interview was taken in 1961 only in-
creased the value of his estimates, par-
ticularly one of de Gaulle which is only
now becoming accepted more generally,
although not necessarily by President
Johnson.
Australia’s main contribution to the
documentary feast was not, I think, the
filmed birth of a baby to an ideal mother,
but a memorable look at the reserve
Aborigines of NSW which must have
made ex-Premier Renshaw thankful that
he did not have to consider its implica-
tions. ATN’s “Seven Days” team found
conditions in sharp contrast to Mr
Renshaw’s belief that all was well on
the Government reserves.
Last week was the vintage week for
documentary features, on the grand scale,
in Sydney. Best of these, in covering 700


Look what's happened to Australia’s
skyline in eight short years
It’s another achievement in Australuco Aluminium
-
Mi
Ms
>w
m
iliiliili i |
, liiSlSiii i J - fffi
liiiiHKinr >r -1
wm'mmm - r
rnmmimmmmm
.
: , '
SB
mm 1
ffiELi- .r;pv4?
-J- r
C * * •<“
3 rfcr^ - :i
sT***rBKrr3r<
1 , i
. pr
fefcr" «*i
prtr-i :<«in
hSKMiBVIf:
||Hla«r ™ ~ gSBfHgPRII
■ “M ;■
■ i. i: , !g|
ii:siipira?pre#rn|
||iii3igaga3|!os"^;aiß|
■' * — 1
iiiiwri i.
:
llir i i
wwk s:r - «
'•' :. r-r^ami
* - j «§m
w - ''—•■'t-
-11
W: , i '-.ji
Frow left: National Mutual, Melbourne; Teachers’ College, Adelaide; Shell, Melbourne; 1.C.1., Melbourne; M.L.C., Sydney; 8.P., Melbourne;
1.8. M., Sydney; P <& O, Sydney; A.G.C., Sydney. Artist’s impression not to scale .
In every one of Australia’s rapidly
expanding cities, striking buildings
testify to the use of aluminium as a
structural and decorative metal. With
its outstanding combinations of
strength and light weight, aluminium
has proved itself invaluable as a
material for curtain walling, window
frames, door suites, suspended ceil-
ings, balustrades, sun hoods and
roofing. The ease with which it can
be extruded in a multitude of shapes
and cross-sections, its variety of
alloys, and its remarkable corrosion
resistance, have resulted in its ready
acceptance by Australia’s architects
and engineers.
Some of these buildings will be
familiar to you. Others you may have
heard of. All of them have been
built within the past eight years. In
all of them, Australuco aluminium
has been extensively used. All of
them demonstrate aluminium’s ver-
satility and lasting attractiveness.
Of course, there's more to achieve-
ment than aluminium alone. Achieve-
ment also means Australuco’s years
of experience in research, testing,
design and improved alloys . . . years
of practical application which can be
summed up in two words: know-how.
So, when you add technical skill and
expertise to aluminium's inherent
qualities, achievement is the result.
Australuco's engineers and tech-
nicians, backed by the world-wide
experience and knowledge of the
Alcan Group, are able to supply the
latest information about the many
applications of aluminium in all
phases of Australian industry.
AUSTRALUCO
y*- I\/l I l\l I L_J l\/!
Australian Aluminium Company Limited
Sydney 637-0133 Melbourne 94-0557 Brisbane 2-7483 Adelaide 51-1516 Perth 23-0211 Hobart 2-2711
A member of the Alcan Group—A participant in the Queensland Alumina Project
AA346AR


Pick, & pouchy
AMPHORA
■
« ? vL=^=^^gE
RSIfIUI
V- E
LIKE AN
EXTRA MILD TOBACCO?
Then ask for Amphora
in the Brown Pouch
trrtoU
PREFER A
MILD AROMATIC?
Then try Amphora Aromatic
in the Blue Pouch
FOR A
FULL AROMATIC!
Choose Amphora Full Aromatic
in the Red Pouch
AMPHORA
There’s a choice of
three fine Amphora pipe
tobaccos all cool
smoking —so there is
one to suit you. Amphora
is an imported tobacco!
54
A PRODUCT OF DOUWE EGBERTS ROYAL FACTORIES, UTRECHT, HBLLANI
SAI47
years of history in one hour without
being either too dull or too expensive,
was “The Louvre”, an Anglo-French
effort with a sparse, often wry, commen-
tary spoken on camera by Charles Boyer.
Equally good, and even more ambi-
tious, was “I, Leonardo da Vinci”. The
visual effects employed the talents of
several European art schools and insti-
tutes to provide a Last Supper to be
visibly eroded, a battle scene in oils
which literally fell off the wall, and a
monstrous horse of plaster never cast
in bronze but demolished first by sportive
French bowmen. “I, Leonardo” was a
magnificent, poignant documentary of a
man born out of his time, with a closing
shot of his notebooks, filled with the
fruits of an outstanding intellect and
destined to be stored and ignored for
another 400 years.
Finally, CBS weighed in with a docu-
mentary of the late Ed. Murrow, who
is credited with the beginnings of many
of the innovations of radio and televi-
sion journalism, including the art of
allowing the speaking picture to tell
most of the story. It was a well-edited
succession of Murrow features and inter-
views
Among the shorter documentary feat-
ures worth noting was the “Lifeline”
series on ABC Television. Currently two
British doctors are exploring the un-
conscious mind, visually, by using hyp-
notised subjects. What they show is
absorbing.
We can hope that such features as
these will be studied, their techniques
adapted to scale, and then used in Aus-
tralia. “Serious” television can be in-
structive and entertaining, but only if it
uses all the visual devices available, not
if it is treated as radio with pictures, not
if we are lectured to sleep on the cheap.
DALE MILLER
THEATRE
Cream, Puffs
Any Wednesday. Muriel Resnik. Princess
Theatre, Melbourne.
Marcel Marceau. Her Majesty’s Theatre,
Melbourne.
AH My Sons. Arthur Miller. National
Theatrette, South Yarra.
Melbourne's theatrical larder is at the
moment stocked mainly with cream puffs.
It’s not a nutritious diet. Four Am-
erican comedies, no less, are running
simultaneously, three of them within
walking distance of each other. The
fourth, south of the river, I have not
seen, but I won't let the loss depress me
unduly.
At the Tivoli we have “Fade Out,
Fade In," at the Comedy “Beekman
Place,” at St. Martin's “But For Whom
Charlie.” In Spring Street the Carrolls
are regaling us with “Any Wednesday,”
a show which, for one reason and an-
other, simply has to succeed.
It almost certainly will. There is
nothing revolutionary or upsettingly ori-
ginal about it, but it is as deft as they
make them. The plot is the usual basic
one of husband (wealthy), wife (charm-
ing), mistress (wayward and sweet) and
second man (unspoilt and sincere)
bursting into the sacred circle. Muriel
Resnik has gingered this cocktail with a
sufficiency of funny lines, though why,
at times, they have to be so blue escapes
me. I don't mind this sort of thing when
it comes to sperm tests in South Mel-
bourne, where it is in place, but here
it seems dragged in.
Never mind: the drink as a whole
has plenty of kick, action is smooth and
well dressed, and the two leading ladies
are a delight.
Tani Seitz is the Wednesday-only
woman whose messed-up birthday ar-
rangements precipitate the crisis which
threatens to force her to change places
with the wife, acted by Bettina Welch,
the sole Australian in the quartet. Miss
Seitz and Miss Welch attack their juicy
parts with all the drive in the world,
and both are a pleasure to watch. Bet-
tina is ripe for Broadway, if that’s still
a compliment. Tani has the, once com-
mon but now rare, gift of being able to
turn herself from a ravishing little demi-
mondaine into a bedraggled-looking
ageing school girl. Without them “Any
Wednesday” would be a fairly ordinary
mid-week dish: they transform it into
a souffle.
Jeff Warren is good as the honest out-
of-towner up against a tycoon and his
suffering, loving popsy. John Cleves, the
fellow who thinks he owns both girls and
who can never afford to lose a game, is
played by Charles Baxter.
Marceau, less tragic and a shade less
austere than last time, is back in this
city. Soyez le bien venu! Here is an
artist in the purest sense who can do
with his face and body what Ruth
Draper alone could do with her voice.
He has brought a largely new pro-
gramme, first shown in New York.
Music is used more freely and there
are even one or two props. It is a gain,
for an entire evening of miming can be-
come too demanding for even the most
devoted.
The Tin Alley Players have given us a
conventional yet robust version of “All
My Sons”, Miller’s greatest present to the
producer. Judy Reed's principals have
been encouraged to tackle the moments
of high emotion boldly. Keith Macart-
ney, the manufacturer of faulty aircraft
components, and Yvonne Bart as his
wife, did well, and George Cunningham,
the son shattered by the truth about his
father, gained confidence as the evening
advanced.
DAVID MARTIN


AUTHORS
Invited submit MSS, all types (including
Poems) for book publication. Reasonable
terms.
STOCKWELL LTD.
ILFRACOMBE, ENGLAND. (Est. 1898)
BOOKS
The Bomb and the “Mods”
By JAMES JUPP
The Politics of Hysteria. E. Stillman and
W. Pfaff. Gollancz. 41s.
The Disarmers. C. Driver. Hodder and
Stoughton. 38s. 6d.
There are only two index references to
Great Britain in “The Politics of
Hysteria” and one of them is sub-headed
“decline of”. But Stillman and Pfaff’s
book links in with Driver’s study of the
CND, “The Disarmers”, because the
CND could hardly have arisen and
flourished except against the background
sketched in the “Politics of Hysteria”.
For without the atom bomb hanging over
their heads, without the crumbling of a
once great empire, without the ideo-
logical insults being swapped between
Russia and America over the heads of
the British, CND would surely have been
impossible. As in the relatively quiet
Australian backwater, its religious and
intellectual leaders would probably have
remained tied to the tattered “Peace”
bandwagon, its young rebels in the Com-
mittee of 100 would have been editing
the “Libertarian Broadsheet” or getting
upset about “Oz”.
The basic hypothesis of “The Politics
of Hysteria” is that the world is in a
mess because it is essentially Westernised
and, therefore, dominated by an ideo-
logical approach. Quite correctly its two
authors see Russia, and more question-
ably, China, as just as much part of this
dilemma as Europe and America. Nor do
they, like Talmon, see the growth of
ideological politics as the outcome of the
“enlightenment” and the French Revolu-
tion. They go back to West European
Christendom which, by its heresy hunting
and proselytising, had turned warfare into
a crusade.
Here, as elsewhere in their attempt
to span the globe and the last millen-
nium, the authors seem to suppress or
ignore much evidence from non-Euro-
pean experience. After all, it was in the
same century that the Crusaders des-
troyed heretical Montpellier that the
Mongols occupied Baghdad. It is not
enough to see the destruction of cities
as promoted by religious or ideological
zeal, without admitting that, further east,
they were equally destroyed because of
the nomads’ hatred of urban life.
It is well to remember that it was the
First World War that upset the balance
of European and eventually world
civilisation. Whatever its causes, Still-
man and Pfaff are in an unexceptionable
position in seeing it as marking the divi-
sion between war for limited purposes
and war for no purpose other than the
total destruction of the enemy. The psy-
chology of total destruction, linked with
the technology for its attainment and the
ideology for its justification, leads in-
evitably into the Cold War. But the
dangers of the Third World War are so
great that ideology must be tempered by
realism. This leads to disorientation—
“what might be called crises of identity,
loss of a sure grasp of what they (i.e., the
great powers) might truly be, and what
they might truly accomplish”.
Perhaps no greater “crisis” of identity
has struck a nation in recent times than
that which engulfed Britain at the time
of Suez. Britain was going nowhere,
had lived under the threat of atomic
bombardment for ten years, and was
shown to be militarily and diplomatically
incapable of dealing with despised Egypt,
let alone with the great ones of the
world. At this point the tiny buds, from
which the CND blossomed, first saw the
sunlight.
Much of Driver’s account is a “more
in sorrow than in anger” tale of the
growth and decline of a movement with
whose general aims he seems in sym-
pathy. Such sympathy is easily under-
stood. For CND grew into something
quite unique; a movement of youth
against politics, established order, against
snobbery and the ridiculous trappings of.
an old nation stuck in the mud of its own
traditions. By July, 1963, when the
Queen and the Greek Royal Family were
booed in the streets of London, “rent-a-
crowd” had been born. It was possible to
rake up a mob of youngsters at a
moment’s notice for any apparently good
cause. This, Driver seems to say, was the
beginning of the end. Canon Collins and
the respectable and middle-aged group
around him, were increasingly by-passed
by the young anarchists, Trotskyists,
libertarians and such, who made up the
Committee of 100. It is a strange com-
mentary on British life that, at the 1963
Easter March, which I attended, it was
the Communists who were a cranky
fringe on the outskirts and the anarchists
and Trotskyists who made up the political
core of the marchers. Even more amu-
sing was the predominance of “mods”
and “hairies” who were looked upon with
some disdain by the “serious anarchists”.
The growth of a youth protest move-
ment out of what had been a well-
organised political movement within the
old context of the Labor Left, naturally
rent the CND to pieces. Collins and
Bertrand Russell were scarcely on speak-
ing terms, and even Russell had to call
the police to remove some of his Com-
mittee of 100 supporters who were “sit-
ting down” in his own drawing-room
over a tactical point. In fact, the aims of
CND were already achieved. They had
wanted Britain to abandon the indepen-
dent deterrent. Despite years of Tory
and Labor rationalisation, Britain no
longer has a really independent bomb.
It is totally dependent on American
technical assistance.
The loss of direction, fear, discontent,
which spawned the CND and then
brought up the Committee of 100 to
destroy it from within, was partly
alleviated by the defeat of Sir Alec
Douglas Home last year. He, above all,
represented the target for the CND-ers.
But, of course, and water Wilson
may not satisfy the rebellious for long.
Both books suggest strongly that
something of a retreat from ideological
politics would be no bad thing.
Mao as Nationalist?
By C. P. FITZGERALD
Communist China’s Crusade. Guy Wint.
F. W. Cheshire, Melbourne. 255.
This book, a new and revised version
of the author’s “Dragon and Sickle”
published some six years ago, is a brief
but pithy summary of the rise of the
Chinese Communist Party to power and
a survey of the policies, particularly the
foreign policies, followed by the govern-
ment of the People’s Republic since
1949. Mr Wint makes no doubt of his
position as an opponent of Communist
regimes, but he writes in an objective
style, avoiding polemical exaggerations,
and assessing the phenomenon of China’s
present government and its policies on
a long-term basis as primarily an example
of national, rather than ideological;
power politics. The theme is thus that
Communism has provided the means by
which Mao Tse-tung has reconstructed
the power and influence of the Chinese
State, temporarily eclipsed by the weak-
ness and obscurantism of the former
Ch’ing Dynasty (the Manchu), and the
disorders of the Republic which replaced
it.
Much of the book is devoted to the


DISSENT
The Winter, 1965, issue contains a photographic supplement on Folk Politics, articles on Vietnam,
advertising, university education, sanctions on South Africa, Santamaria's book, Guerrilla
Warfare and
• Sol Encel: Labor and Equality • Chris Wallace Crabbe: Auden Revisited • H. P. Heseltine:
From An Ivory Tower • Rees Williams and John Paterson: White Collar Unionism
Special Report . . . Reactions to the SAFA Bus Tour
56-page issue. 3/- from bookshops or news-stands, or £1 for 8 issues from
BOX 4044, G.P.0., MELBOURNE
use Mao has made of this renewed
strength, and the development of the
quarrel with the Soviet Union, which
Mr Wint sees as, essentially, an almost
inevitable clash between the interest of
the Soviet in consolidating its position
as a world power and the urge of China
to attain a like standing. One point,
for which, unfortunately, he does not
provide the source, and which is, I think,
new to most students of modern China,
is the claim that in 1958 the Russians
proposed to- the Chinese that the two
countries should operate a joint fleet in
the Pacific Ocean, and a jointly-con-
trolled long-range radar station on
Chinese soil; and that this suggestion was
not accepted by the Chinese. Mr Wint
attributes great significance to this sugges-
tion and its rejection—“one of the great
turning points in post-war history”. The
Chinese do not seem to have mentioned
it in their numerous criticisms of Rus-
sian policy.
On Chinese attitudes to nuclear war,
Mr Wint temperately points out that
this has been much exaggerated in the
Western world. “In fact, the statements
of China’s leaders will be searched in
vain for any indications of such out-
right belligerency” (the suggestion that
China is willing to challenge the West to
a nuclear conflict). This needs saying, if
only to correct a very persistent mis-
interpretation.
In some other instances, Mr Wint is
perhaps either less unprejudiced or omits
factors of importance in making his
judgments. Discussing the failure, or
partial failure, of the “Great Leap For-
ward” of 1958-59, and the serious food
shortage of the years 1959-61, he
attributes this calamity wholly to mis-
takes in agricultural policy, and ignores
the fact that these years were those of
the worst drought in China for at least
100 years. A number of Western visitors
in China during that period have left
first-hand testimony of this fact—it is
not necessary to rely on the statements
of Chinese authorities alone.
Discussing the Indian Border War of
1962, Mr Wint attributes this without
qualification to “Chinese aggression”.
Yet, on the day before the world Press
carried the first news of the massive
Chinese attack which broke the Indian
forces in the border region, the London
“Times” had published a long report
from its Indian correspondent describing
the up to that time successful
probing advance of an Indian force,
which was described as having captured
the greater part of an important mountain
position. Retaliation is not identical with
aggression. Mr Wint also makes no
mention of the unilateral cease fire and
withdrawal of the Chinese victorious
forces at a moment when they had
broken through the Indian positions and
had virtually no opposition before them.
An unusual sequel to “aggression”.
In this connection, some discussion of
the curious fact that China publishes
hardly any but the most sketchy and
restrained account of this conflict in
the controlled Chinese Press, has never
even identified the victorious commander
of the Chinese forces, and treated the
affair as “a border incident between
frontier guards” in their own brief re-
ports, would have been worthwhile.
One of Mr Wint’s brilliant insights
into the nature of the power struggle in
the world today is his observation that
a new political movement of real im-
portance must be established in what
he calls a “metropolitan” part of the
world, as opposed to a “provincial”
region. Russia, an old great power, was
such a metropolitan area, China was an-
other; and he suggests that in Asia only
Japan can really qualify as a third. “A
metropolis remains a metropolis in
power and influence whatever the ideas
which predominate in it; a province
remains a province.” From this he con-
cludes that no country in South-East
Asia, including Indonesia, has the neces-
sary standing to become an independent
centre of political power and far-reach-
ing influence. President Sukarno would
certainly not agree, but the idea is
stimulating.
NZ’s Grand Old Man
By MAURICE SHADBOLT
Collected Stories. Frank Sargeson. Mac-
Gibbon & Kee. 325. 6d.
The nineteen-thirties were more than a
time of political ferment in New Zea-
land; in literature, as in life, there were
the first glimmerings of national iden-
tity. The pacemakers were poets such
as Allen Curnow, Denis Glover and
A. R. D. Fairburn, and later essayists
like Monte Holcroft and Eric McCor-
mick. In fiction there was a perhaps
natural lag. John Mulgan’s short and
epic “Man Alone”, published in 1939,
was probably the decade’s most substan-
tial fictional achievement; it not only
defined the era of riot and depression,
but gave its name to what is sometimes
said to be the central, obsessive theme in
New Zealand writing man alone as
opposed, say, to Australian mateship.
Alongside it stand the sketches and
stories of Roderick Finlaysori (now a
rather neglected figure) and Frank Sar-
geson.
Sargeson, more than any living writer,
is inseparable from New Zealand’s nine-
teen-thirties. His first sketches were pub-
lished in the Left-wing journal “Tomor-
row” (which was to perish with the
decade, banned by the Labor Govern-
ment in 1940); and some of his later
work found a London home in John
Lehmann’s “New Writing”. In both style
and choice of theme his work reflects
the major influences of the ’thirties
like Hemingway, Saroyan and Sherwood
Anderson. His best work is set in the
depression, and even his later work con-
stantly harks back to it. His dedication
to literature to actually living as a
writer in New Zealand, and in no other
way soon made him a local legend;
the result is that in New Zealand Sarge-
son occupies a place usually reserved for
major writers elsewhere. At the relatively
youthful age of 62, he is now the grand
old man of New Zealand letters. His
output has been modest to an extreme.
Apart from the stories collected here,
there is only a long novel and a novella
(“I Saw In My Dream” and “I, For
One”) and some still uncollected auto-
biographical narrative; these, plus three
plays and a picaresque novel announced
for publication later this year, represent
some thirty-seven years’ work.
The English edition of these stories
comes to us with a singularly unen-
lightening and patronising 17 lines of
preface by E. M. Forster (“Sargeson . . .
knows heaps about New Zealand includ-
ing its Maoris”); for some reason Dr Bill
Pearson’s sober and scholarly introduc-
tion to the New Zealand edition has been
excluded. Wisely, Dr Pearson makes no
large claims for the work, and is content
to say that Sargeson’s example facilitated
the development and publication of later
New Zealand writers. The fact is that
Sargeson in his fiction, at least
does not know heaps about New Zealand
(in fact the essential, rather open quality


Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday
ur
m
9.
9 dramatic days that proved two things:
Falcon’s dependability—and the
top performance of Mobil products
Saturday
Friday
: k
mmm
Five Falcons in an all-out 70,000 mile dash against
the clock! In the Falcon-Mobil Durability Run,
pit stops could take just seconds. No time
for oil changes! Yet Mobiloil Special
easily withstood the rigours of all-out driving
day and night for 8 % days —at average running
speeds of 71.3 m.p.h.
The petrol, Mobil Super, also proved its
top performance in sustained power, and bursts of
speed up to 95 m.p.h. Clear evidence: Mobil
Super and Mobiloil Special are best for
Ford and best for your car, too!
Mobil Super
& Mobiloil Special
for top performance
Mobil
-*t
MP6406.8


of New Zealand life has eluded him al-
together), and writes almost not at all
about Maoris. But what he does know
about urban and suburban New Zealand
its embittered, dour puritan underside
he knows very well, and no one has
yet written of it more vividly.
All the same, there is a striking paucity
of development in these stories, which
in publication span the twenty years
1934-1954. Never technically adventur-
ous, Sargeson almost without exception
confined himself to the first person nar-
rative or monologue. (Interestingly, two
of his finest stories “A Great Day”
and “Gods Live in Woods” appear to
be a direct result of escape from this
self-imposed straitjacket.) Occasionally
a startling success jumps from the pages
of his book, despite the deadly monotony
of style and approach: more often his
craftmanship is simply not adequate to
the complexity of his subject and theme.
. Many of his sketches —especially those
salvaged from the pages of “Tomorrow”
are likeable but ultimately trite. Is it
possible to demand too much of the
sketch? Elizabeth Bowen says the sketch
at its best can never be more than a
highly accomplished form of journalism.
But even if we take Sargeson as a jour-
nalist, a reporter on bygone New Zea-
land life, the result is still not entirely
in his favor. There is too often the whiff
of the fervent propagandist, busy stack-
ing the odds against the conformist; the
puritan conformist may deny life only
at his own expense, and, given half a
chance by the author, might prove a
figure more worthy of sympathy than the
characteristic footloose Sargeson rebel
(“the unsmart, the unregulated and the
affectionate”, in Forster’s description).
Patrick White’s tales of Sarsaparilla,
where a genuine tension is achieved and
sympathies are never easy, rather prove
the point.
In the later Sargeson there is a cer-
tain loosening of style and widening of
comparison, as well as a quite breath-
taking artistry in the use of New Zealand
vernacular; it is here that his real sig-
nificance emerges. As poet-critic Louis
Johnson has observed, “New Zealand
prose literature begins with Frank Sar-
geson rather than Katherine Mansfield,
because he sought the spirit and essence
of our own language as the real means of
discovering ourselves.”
And in the novella “That Summer”,
the high point of this collection, is the
justification of the mature Sargeson
manner, and all that went before. Here
the world of depression-struck urban
New Zealand is evoked in its entirety:
the dead streets, the listless unemployed
of Auckland, the grim bars and boarding-
houses, the sad Dalmatian restaurants;
this finely worked background lends an
almost epic significance to the story of
Bill, drifter and petty criminal, search-
ing for a mate who will “go solid” with
him. For all its clumsiness in the handling
of the implicitly homosexual theme, for
all its half-sentimental lapses, its power
and precision and profound particularity
lifts it far above anything comparable in
New Zealand fiction. He has never writ-
ten anything more satisfying.
So if this collection tends to confuse
rather than emphasize Sargeson’s
achievement, it is for want of a tough-
minded editor: “That Summer” and a
dozen of his better stories (such as the
much-anthologised “The Making of a
New Zealander”) would have enabled us
to see him afresh. One has to cut through
too much dead wood to get at the living
trees. This is all the more regrettable be-
cause Sargeson may never mean much
to readers outside New Zealand, anyway;
that his talent is in essence minor is
evident on comparison with, say, the
novelists lan Cross or Janet Frame. Per-
haps the greatest tribute one can pay is
to say it is impossible to imagine litera-
ture in New Zealand without him. In-
deed, one literally cannot imagine New
Zealand without him.
In Haunted Chicago
By NOEL BUCKLEY
The Neon Wilderness. Nelson Algren.
Deutsch. 265. 6d.
The Pillow Fight. Nicholas Monsarrat.
Cassell. 335. 6d.
“The Neon Wilderness” finds Nelson
Algren back on Chicago’s West Side
where he belongs. As the fey, far-out
humorist of “Who Lost an American?”,
recently reviewed in these pages, Algren
seemed a pale imitation of others not
worth imitating; as the champion of the
losers thrown up by a unique society he
knows intimately, he can hold his own
against any challenger.
The short stories in this volume exa-
mine the anti-heroes of the most affluent
society the world has known, the failures
inevitably thrown up by every system, but
seeming more truly tragic in considera-
tion of the breadth of the gulf which
separates the extremes.
Definitive of their condition is the
story titled “The Captain Has Bad
Dreams” about the police-captain who
daily goes through the brutal questioning
of those who have been brought in—
pickpockets, perverts, petty thieves and
murderers; both policeman and captive
fall automatically into their parts as if
following a pre-ordained script. But, at
The Statues In The
Botanic Gardens
They were made of copper when
Their heroism blew like pennons
Tattering in the north wind—-
Now green, green,
No summer green, nor spring’s
But the rust green of sorrow
Drips from the empty hands.
Explorers who rode out
Torn down to their hides
In the white death of sun
In the parched mouth of sand
To find nothing.
All they see now
Is a frieze of glittering stone
Tongues of liverish sails
Flickering through the blue
Lips of the inlet,
Stub buildings, rotting trees.
A city spread like a thin veil
Across a drab and consumed face
And the eyes eaten out with longing.
No battle they fought
With spear, rifle, button,
Only the tall conflict
Of limbs and torso
Walking vertically
Against a horizontal indifference.
Pass by in the night, giving
A well-fed salute.
Parched faces, hair,
Green, O green,
Green of a perennial winter.
CHARLES HIGHAM
Hat Poem
Bare headed from India I came home
to the hats those middle-aged women own
who stroll, so low to the ground, in slow
sad solvency through airport foyers. I
suppose a returning sense of space
left me helpless before the weight
of such fat crowns squat
massed meringues, tall feathers, leaden
salads. I was absorbed (much as,
in convalescence, a bowl
of oranges will pulse and glow
against porcelain or pale skin). Oh
how I’d wished those hats could float!
Lift
up on gauze wings the pink souls
of thick, sleep-walking women. Years
later I notice that I've grown
flat-footed, my body thickens downwards.
Hatless I like to lie around
dreaming of India and jewelled turbans.
PETER BLAND


The Four
Square
colour
scheme
of things
The man who asks for Yellow chooses his
colours —and his pleasure—wisely. Slow-
burning, packed in broken flake ready for your
pipe, joy for the pipeman who knows what he
wants. Vacuum-sealed Four Square Yellow. One
of seven great tobaccos. 8/2 for the 2 ounce tin.
' . '
■
mmm
«
i i-\
- ■ !
A choice btend 0? Virginia
V tobaccos in broken fiake form A
' ■ ■ Jm
JSBBb
:, >:
V. 183
n
night, “such men haunted the captain.-
In sleep he saw their pale, lascivious
faces ... In this tragic and fluorescent
dream they passed and repassed him
restlessly, their faces half averted, for-
ever smiling uneasily as though sharing
some secret and comforting knowledge
of evil which he could never know.” It is
the captain’s misfortune that he shares
with Algren the knowledge that their
degradation has been forced upon them
by the actions of other human beings.
No Algren book would be complete
without a denunciation of some contem-
porary sociological phenomenon and
Algren obliges in his introduction with an
attack on a genus of contemporary
writers, satirised with names such as
Justin Poodlespitz and Lionel Thrillingly,
who consider the underprivileged not
worth writing about. “I play not marches
for accepted visitors only, I play marches
for conquered and slain persons,” Algren
says, echoing what he describes as the
prevailing passion of American letters
from Whitman through Crane to Stein-
beck and Richard Wright; and when he
is writing about the area which he has
made peculiarly his own, Algren plays
marches as well as any of them.
Whereas “The Neon Wilderness” pre-
sents Algren at his best, Nicholas Mon-
sarrat’s new novel, “The Pillow Fight”,
unfolds at a level which has become his
norm, established in such recent books as
“The Nylon Pirates” and “The White
Rajah”. It is, I think, one of the trage-
dies of modern literature that “The Cruel
Sea” should have been followed by a
series of works of decidedly inferior type.
Perhaps fittingly, “The Pillow Fight”
deals with a young, impoverished English
writer, Jonathan Steele, who finds in
Africa something to write about. His
African writings bring him fame and win
him also the love of Kate Marais, a
wealthy young Afrikaner successful in
her own advertising agency. Her materi-
alism contrasted to Steele’s idealism adds
up to a classical conflict situation and
forms the subject of the first book, told
through Kate’s eyes. On all counts it is
the most successful, though the efforts of
a man to write as a woman seem to re-
sult in a kind of hormonic imbalance of
word and thought.
The second half of the novel shifts to
New York where Steele and Kate, under
the influence of success and attendant
wealth, have undergone a remarkable
metamorphosis. Their roles have become
reversed, with Steele finding that the
pragmatic approach to life comes easily
and Kate turning idealist. If all this
seems a little unexpected, the conclusion
is downright incredible, with Steele seeing
the light and pursuing Kate across the
world as she tours their honeymoon spots,
with their final rendezvous, naturally,
back in South Africa.
Eyewitness
By G. W. FORD
We Shall Overcome. Michael Dorman.
Delacorte Press, NY, 1964.
“We Shall Overcome” is the battle-hymn
of the Negro civil rights movement in
the United States; and this book is a
reporter’s eyewitness account of the up-
heaval resulting from this movement in
1962.
Michael Dorman was one of a large
number of American and foreign cor-
respondents who are being continually
assigned to cover the recurring integra-
tion crises. These are dangerous assign-
ments for “it is a fact of history that
cameras and tape-recorders are often
more than guns in the midst
of race-baiting mobs”. Many newsmen
have been verbally and physically
assaulted on this beat and one, a
gregarious French reporter, Paul
Guihard, was taken on a death march.
The “out of town” correspondents are
frequently considered as outside trouble-
makers by the local citizens, and in some
cases by the local reporters. Integration
assignments therefore resulted in the
development of “an unusual esprit de
corps” among these “outside” Pressmen.
(In a lighter moment while covering
one of the crises a group of reporters
formed a whimsical association called
the Southern Correspondents on Racial
Equality Wars [SCREW].)
With a trained reporter’s eye for sig-
nificant details and an ability to spot the
irony in a situation, Dorman describes
each crisis as it unfolds. His hour-by-
hour and sometimes minute-by-minute
commentary allows his reader to feel the
drama unfolding and shiver as the mob
hysteria grips the hate-filled crowds.
Dorman’s deep involvement in the
many Southern racial crises, together with
his excellent historical, legal and
political perspective, give his reporting
unusual depth.


mm
'
. : s: , >
.
M
.
■
mmmm
mm
m. ,
wm
-, jr
.' : X:
:\\V#?»sS
%
, ■
::V ?
3«*
m
-
m
MM
■
..
I
Miss Helen Hsu CAT flight stewardess serving on The Mandarin J*t
Happy Occasion
What occasion? The occasion of having
you on board our Mandarin Jet. In the
Orient fly with us . . . we’ll pop a cork*
for you ... and yours.
We fly from Bangkok and Hong Kong to
all the major cities in the Orient. And
you can get a free stop over in Taiwan (72
hours no visa required).
For bookings on
See your travel agent
m mmmn m
* First Class Serving: Seoul • Tokyo • Osaka • Okinawa • Taipei • Hong Kong • Manila'* Bangkok c*t B


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Imports Stockpiled
TlThe sharply rising trend in imports to
-*• Australia has convinced most ob-
servers that manufacturers are stocking
up in anticipation of a tight Federal
Budget designed to make imports more
expensive. The rush to beat the gun
may make sense in one direction, though
it certainly will help also to harden
Treasury thinking on the need to counter
the sharp drain on overseas reserves.
Federal policy has been generous on
imports, not only in attempting to meet
the principles of GATT but in following
a line of free trade and accepting the
idea that a good flow of imports always
helps to damp down inflation.
Budget planners this year, however,
have to consider the huge defence ex-
penditure looming before the Federal
Government over the next three years,
apart from the problems of raising loan
moneys on a market which, to say the
least, is difficult. Included in this assess-
ment is the problem of Government loans
of £sl2m. coming up for redemption
between August, 1965, and July, 1966.
Treasurer Holt left Canberra last
week for his hideaway at Bingil Bay,
North Queensland, where he will pre-
pare his Budget. He went off with the
news that May’s imports were a record
£133.5m., thus raising the trading deficit
for 11 months to £113.2m., against a
surplus of £l92m. for the previous
period.
If the June figures continue to reflect
the rising trend, the trade deficit could
be around £133m., disregarding in-
visibles, which could be around £2som.
Even so, the balance of payments
figures appear to be holding up remark-
ably well, if assessed on the basis of
overseas reserves of the Reserve Bank.
True, there have been a few overseas
loans to add to reserves, such as the
£llm. Euro-dollar loan, but not as
much as the Treasurer normally would
borrow overseas.
It therefore appears that there has been
more overseas capital coming through
the pipeline than first imagined. The
flow has slowed down drastically in
recent months. This no doubt prompted
Sir Robert Menzies to reinforce Harold
Holt’s pleas in the US while LBJ walked
him around the White House garden.
Despite all this, it could be said that,
at this stage in the proceedings, Aus-
tralia’s figures are not too bad, and cer-
tainly much healthier than in previous
years when imports caused a headache.
However, the circumstances today must
admit into consideration what will
happen in the future, particularly the
possibility of a serious drought which
will curb spending power drastically in
the next few months and which will have
repercussions for a long time. Wheat
growers, for example, report that lack
of rain has prevented their sowing next
year’s crop.
Industry has tried to read the signs
and has come up with the conclusion
that the Federal Treasurer will increase
sales tax and broaden his direct taxation,
including a possible increase in company
tax. Hence the rush to stockpile, in-
cluding car parts and accessories.
New Brokerage
THhe new two p.c. flat rate of brokerage
on the contract price for share trans-
actions up to £5OOO is undoubtedly a
step in the right direction. It removes
many irritating anomalies and un-
doubtedly provides encouragement for
the smaller investor.
The two p.c. flat rate generally means
a reduction in brokerage on shares sell-
ing below 20s. lOd. Higher priced shares
bear a slightly higher charge in com-
parison with old brokerage rates. This
is a reversal of the old system, because
the high-priced shares relatively were
cheaper to buy (e.g., li p.c. on prices of
80s. and over).
Big purchases of shares gain a special
concession under the proposed new rate,
because the percentage charge drops to
li p.c. on share transactions between
SIR ROBERT MENZIES
£5OOl and £25,000. Above £25,000 the
rate drops to 1 p.c., but the concessions
on transactions above £5OOO apply only
if a single order is given on behalf of
the one beneficial interest.
Brokers have to vote on the new pro-
posals on June 23. If all Exchanges
agree on the proposal, the new rates
could come into effect on Monday, June
28.
Any move which is likely to entice
share buyers through the portals of a
broker’s office should be welcomed by
the profession. Profits have been dif-
ficult to achieve in the past six months.
Many brokers have been forced to cut
staff, after holding on for some months
in the hope of a return to more active
share trading.
Much work has gone on behind the
scenes to establish a new brokerage rate.
Although it might be assumed that poor
business prodded the Exchanges into
revising their rates, it must be stated
that Mr A. H. Urquhart, president of
the Australian Associated Stock Ex-
changes, reported 18 months ago it
would be necessary for brokerage rates
to be revised to coincide with decimal
currency. A flat rate was the only
practical choice.
A lot of water has flowed under the
bridge since then, and the Stock Ex-
changes have come in for criticisms on
brokerage rates as the sharemarket
shimmied down to its present level. A
reduction in rates was the popular cry.
Rates of commission were criticised,
percentagewise, without making a true
comparison with overseas rates, which
in many instances are higher than Aus-
tralian rates.
Complaints about the proportionately
higher percentage rate of brokerage on
shares in the lower-priced bracket ignored
the fact that it costs a broker an average
of 255. to process a transaction, regard-
less of whether the transfer consists of
£5 shares or Is. shares.
Now the market is given encourage-
ment by the proposed introduction of
a two p.c. flat rate, except where the
minimum rates apply. These are 20s.
minimum on a contract note of £5 or
more and a minimum of 10s. on a con-
tract note of less than £5.
A buyer of 200 shares at Is. (costing
£10) would pay 16s. Bd. under the old
rates of brokerage, whereas a two p.c.
flat rate would be only 4s. So, a minimum
brokerage rate of 20s. would apply here
on a contract note of more than £5.
However, this minimum-rate system
could encourage the buyer to seek a
larger parcel of shares worth £5O, be-
cause at that level the two p.c. flat rate
equals the minimum brokerage rate of
20s. The same principle applies on the


SIR ROLAND WILSON
Secretary to the Treasury.
very low - priced shares where the
minimum brokerage is 10s. for a con-
tract note less than £5.
Sterling Struggles
Successive British Governments’ ef-
forts to protect the pound sterling
on world exchanges have worn a grim-
mer and more feverish air since Mr
Harold Wilson assumed office last No-
vember. The result of a crowd of almost
rearguard actions is summarised by
“Croesus” in an article beginning on
page 60.
With devaluation the reward for de-
feat, and a consequent shudder through
many international non-reserve curren-
cies, the importance of an English failure
to Australia should not require emphasis.
Not only orthodox defences may be
called into operation if the expected
pressure on sterling eventuates around
September-October. Indeed the end-of-
June talks between the Chancellor of the
Exchequer, Mr James Callaghan, and the
US Secretary of the Treasury, Mr Henry
Fowler, are believed to include one or
two quite radical proposals.
Latest reports from London suggest
that a much closer UK-US financial
union will come up for discussion. The
first leg of the suggested deal, of ob-
vious advantage to America, involves
part of the British gold reserve, valued
at about 2000 million dollars, being
actually changed into dollars. Such a
process is clearly aimed at correcting
European, and specifically French, sales
of dollars for gold.
Further, the proposals may ask both
Britain and America mutually to hold
much larger amounts of each other’s
currencies thus broadening the present
$750 million swap arrangements between
the Bank of England and the Federal
Reserve Bank.
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
A Treasury Conspectus
Of Capital Inflow
The position of direct investment
Tf the Prime Minister had a look at
the report of the Vernon Committee
of Economic Enquiry before he left for
overseas he has been mighty quiet about
it. It now seems we won’t hear anything
officially about it until Sir Robert returns
in a few weeks’ time.
On the face of it, the timing of the
appearance of the report for the begin-
ning of May has gone very much astray.
Presumably the public will have to be
content for some time yet with occasional
morsels of evidence submitted from
various sources, such as the Treasury,
whose White Paper on private overseas
investment is stated to follow its evi-
dence closely. Of course these are no
substitute for the guidelines on this or
any other aspect of the Australian
economy expected from the committee
itself, yet they are at least something
to be going on with.
Early in its White Paper, the Treasury
raised a mild hope that it was going to
assess the balance of advantage of capital
inflow on the economy. This was quickly
dashed, because the paper confines its
observations mostly to the statistical in-
formation on capital inflow. It neither
attempts to analyse the effects of private
overseas investment on the economy nor
makes any comment on policy issues
such as have been aired pretty liberally
in the last month or two in political
quarters, what with the trade deficit in-
creasing, overseas funds running down,
and the US and Britain taking stern
looks at their capital outflows.
The most the Treasury involves itself
in controversial directions is to say that,
without the capital inflow amounting to
something just under £2OOO million since
the war, “we can be sure that Australia
would be a smaller and less wealthy
economy than it is”. Again the paper
states that the sheer size of the inflow
has substantially altered the total and the
pattern of investment in the economy,
enabling us, for instance, to maintain
a ratio of gross investment to GNP only
bettered by a handful of other countries.
Further, as well as adding to resources,
“overseas capital has, in many cases,
brought with it new processes and tech-
niques of production and management
(‘know how’) which have strengthened
Australian industry”. None of these
observations is new or very startling,
even if apposite in a conspectus of capital
inflow.
On this occasion the Treasury refrains
from mentioning the virtues of capital
inflow as a make-weight in overseas re-
serves, thinking perhaps that it doesn’t
require much imagination to see that our
overseas reserves would be a shadow of
their present level had capital inflow not
been there to bolster them especially
this year, when they have held up re-
markably well considering the various
pressures. This year, with visible trade for
11 months to May, 1965, showing a
deterioration of £305.2 million on the
same period last year and net invisible
trade also moving further against us,
capital inflow has been on a sufficient
scale to prevent a drain of little more
than £l5O million in reserves in the 11
months.
Without official confirmation of the
figures but going on the movement in
the Reserve Bank’s holdings of gold and
foreign exchange, reserves dropped by
roughly £3O million in May. Estimating
actual capital inflow at from £lO to £l2
million during the month, it may seem
obvious that, without it, the plunge in
reserves would have been considerably
steeper. However, it is necessary to be
guarded in interpreting the figures be-
cause, in effect, the high level of imports
in May (an all-time monthly record of
£133.5 million) itself to some extent
represents the import of capital. Over-
seas investment in Australia has, at some
stage or other, to show up in the import
bill. If we were not getting overseas
capital on such a grand scale the imports
bill would be considerably lower.
The current interesting interplay of
influences on reserves and the balance
of payments does not, however, rate any
discussion in the Treasury’s recent White
Paper, nor for that matter in the 1963-64
“Bulletin of Overseas Investment” also
issued last week. These documents are
concerned to look retrospectively at the
performances of the various elements in
capital inflow and the balance of pay-
ments in general. They enable us to see
things in the perspective of postwar
trends and to help extrapolation in the
stern exercises now confronting the
authorities to maintain viability on the
economy’s overseas front.
As the current account balance of


payments details for 1963-64 have been
available for a long time, the main
interest in these papers is in their new
figures on capital inflow. The only dis-
appointing performer of the three
categories in private overseas capital
last year was portfolio investment. Direct
overseas investment in companies was
at an accelerated rate. (Here we are not
dealing with capital inflow on Govern-
ment account, which was, however,
minimal last year.)
Possibly the Stock Exchanges here
don’t need a reminder that overseas buy-
ing of Australian shares fell away last
year, nor that this year’s performance
has been considerably worse. The revised
figure for portfolio investment from
overseas in 1963-64 is given as £l3
million, £4 million less than the early
estimate. It comprised only six p.c. of
the total of £214 million for overseas
investment in Australian companies last
year (the total the previous year was
£220 million, the second highest on
record after 1960-61’s £235 million).
This figure of six p.c. was the lowest
percentage for portfolio investment for
eight years (it was four p.c. in 1955-56).
Last year’s dismal showing is put into
starker relief by the fact in the five
previous years (to 1962-63) investment
averaged £37 million a year or 20 p.c.
of the total private overseas investment.
Of the two components of direct over-
seas investment in Australian companies,
readers will know that one of them, un-
distributed income of overseas companies
operating in Australia, does not actually
enter the country. It is income retained
here by such companies. It only figures
in the balance of payments to the extent
that it is treated as a debit in the current
account and as a credit in the capital
account, the one entry cancelling out
the other. It is counted as capital inflow
simply because it is owned by overseas
interests and could theoretically, at any
rate, at the discretion of the owners, be
remitted, in which case it would count
as a debit without a corresponding credit
being given in the capital account.
The contribution of undistributed com-
pany income as a source of overseas
capital is, of course, determined partly
by the actual earnings of the companies
and partly by the amount of those earn-'
ings remitted overseas. It is a residual
item which, in the post-war period up
to 1958-59, was the most stable and
steadily growing source of capital inflow.
In the two post-war years, 1952-53 and
1958-59, undistributed income was also
the biggest item, accounting for 70 and
50 p.c. of total overseas investment in
those years—but only because of declines
in “other” direct investment in those
years.
Following 1958-59, its percentage of
the total has been considerably reduced.
In the five years to 1963-64 it averaged
only 27 p.c. of the total. Its smaller
share arises partly because company
earnings fell off in 1961-62. With the
subsequent recovery in company earn-
ings, undistributed income has in-
creased, last year rising to £65 million
or 31 p.c. of the total. It has to be
remembered, however, that its lower per-
centage compared with the 1950 s also
partly stems from the fact that “other”
direct overseas investment in companies
(that is capital actually coming from
overseas) has grown substantially in the
last five years (even in 1961-62, when it
temporarily subsided to £77 million, its
contribution was still higher than in any
year during the 19505).
Happily for us, as is now revealed by
the Treasury, “other” direct investment
was at a record level of £136 million last
year compared with £l2B million for
1962-63, an average of £49,000,000 a
year in the five years to 1962-63 and
an average of only £52 million a
year in the 10 years to 1959-60. It
comprised 63 per cent of total private
overseas investment last year, its highest
percentage of total capital inflow since
1954-55, when it was 65 per cent of a
much lower total of £lO5 million.
With portfolio investment from over-
seas at a low ebb and in all probability
likely to remain so (it will continue to be
affected by the US tax equalisation legis-
lation and now by the operation of the
UK corporation tax), the most vital
question for the balance of payments, so
far as capital inflow is a key factor in it,
will be whether this direct flow of over-
seas capital into companies can be main-
tained at something like the level of
recent years.
True, it will also be very important
in the overall balance of payments
equation whether, in response to pres-
sures from overseas Governments such
as the US and UK, overseas companies
will henceforth remit more of Australian
earnings home. This is the other side
of the medal of undistributed income.
At least, as we noted in The Bulletin
last week, the Treasury tells us in its
White Paper it has had some reassurances
about this, at least from US firms, who
have said they are not envisaging any
great change in their remittances in
response to President Johnson’s general
overtures to US firms operating over-
seas.
CROESUS
Britain’s Economic Imbroglio
Fighting the bears of sterling
A t the moment we seem to be without
-*"*• a British peer in Canberra not
that this seems to have made much dif-
ference to anybody here. But whether
we like it or not we are still tied in trade
and currency lines to a Britain whose
present struggle for economic viability
is of vital concern to us. We cannot
shrug off the current turbulence in
Britain’s economic affairs as if it were of
little consequence for our own economy.
I can better understand the train of
events in this early phase of Labor
government in Britain, having been
acquainted with some of the Ministers
who labored in the service of the Attlee
Government in the 19405. In those days
the likes of Harold Wilson, Douglas Jay,
Aneurin Bevan and Roy Jenkins were
frequent callers at “The Economist”,
where I happened to be working in those
years. I even did a little homew’ork for
some of them.
Herbert Morrison (later Lord, now
regrettably in the silence) once told me
(at a boys’ club in Hackney Wick of all
places it was in his electorate) that he
believed Britain was the ideal place for
a fully socialist economy. Though he
later admitted that he would have to
settle for 20 p.c. socialism and 80 p.c.
private enterprise, he and most of the
other members of the Government went
into office in 1945 determined to go the
whole hog. Everybody knows what hap-
pened. They put far too much on their
plate, and eventually most of the meal
went undigested.
There are similarities in the situation
faced today by the Wilson Government,
not only in the prescriptions they have
prepared, say, for the nationalisation of
steel (this, like the nationalisation of the
railways, electricity, gas and the Bank of
England, was among Labor’s worthwhile
achievements in the 19405), but also in
the economic climate in which they have
to operate.
Mind you, Britain today is an alto-
gether different place from what it was
in 1945, when the economy was
exhausted from the war, its overseas in-
vestment income greatly reduced, its
trade awry and the country full of re-
turned soldiers like myself expecting the
Beveridge-Keynes millennium. Although
internal spending money had never been
more flush, Britain itself was broke.
It was a bit too much to expect any
regime to make a success of socialism in


SCIENCE
OVRHAULS
WHILE-U-DRIVE
ADD IN PETROL OR OIL OR
PLUG HOLES
Up to 95% Savings
By its expanding action INCREASES petrol
power, compression up to 15 lb. per cyl.
GOOD for thousands of miles. GUAR,
harmless to finest engine. Ovrhauls worn
main bearings, big ends, gudgeons, etc.,
noisy diffs. and gears.
• SAVES -U - EXPENSIVE rebore recon-
ditioning job.
• SAVES, ELIMINATES piston slap, rattles,
oil and petrol waste.
• SAVES carbon and desludglng.
» SAVES ring wear and maintenance.
• SPREADS anti-friction expanding ad-
ditive between METAL to METAL sur-
OVRHAUL NU-Metal No 4 contains a
secret formulated catalyst chemical.
CHARGES of action within the petrol
make it impossible to plug any fuel lines.
NOTHING can compete with Ovrhaul Nu-
Metal No. 4 success. No charge—No results
PROVEN. 1,2, 4, 6. 8 cylds.. 15/6. 30/-,
60/-. 70/-. 80/-. YOU DO NOT NEED AN
OIL CHANGE.
Paint your own car any color: 99/6.
indicate colour We also
sell WELDERS AND ELECTROPLATERS:
£lO each. Also FIT-RITE clear acrylic jelly
plastic. One application makes all dentures
fit-rite for life. Not a bulky substance or
powder; price 40/-. Open Saturday morn.
Sold only by Re-Nu Co. festab. 1932), 58
Swan St., opp. Richmond Stn.. Victoria.
42-1755
I enclose £ for
or send free
particulars on
including 2 for 1 selling campaign.
NAME
ADDRESS
"Bui.”
SIR STAFFORD CRIPPS
that setting. The problem was more that
of survival, just as it had been during
the war. This time, though, it was econ-
omic survival, and this became the over-
riding preoccupation of the Labor Gov-
ernment. In the event, the Government
in those years never ceased to live on the
knife edge of a sterling crisis and when,
early in 1952, I attended R. A. (now
Lord) Butler’s and Oliver (now Lord)
Lytt.leton’s Press conference at Church
House after the Attlee Government had
departed, the pound was still the main
problem, as these two gentlemen, in the
roles of Chancellor of the Exchequer and
Colonial Secretary respectively, made
perfectly clear to us.
There are several questions for Aus-
tralia arising out of Britain’s current
economic imbroglio. By far the most im-
portant is whether the pound will be
saved. Since the sterling crisis last Octo-
ber, my view has been that for most of
this year Britain would be battling to
save the pound and that the big test
would come around next September and
October, when seasonal payments for
Britain’s imports reach their peak. It will
be touch and go when these months come
along and, as we saw at the beginning
of this month, the bears of sterling, few
of whom have closed their accounts since
opening them last year, made one of
their heaviest raids on the pound.
Flying in the face of this latest raid,
the Bank of England has reduced its dis-
count rate from the penal 7 p.c. to the
rather less than crisis level of 6 p.c.,
after one of Britain’s longest periods ever
with the penal rate. The day before the
reduction the authorities announced a
welcome addition of £stgl 81 million to
Britain’s international reserves. Yet any-
body who reads into these two moves that
sterling is out of the wood had better
think again. This is certainly not the view
taken by responsible economic commen-
tators in Britain, who lay more stress on
the fact that the Government has moved
strongly to restrict hire purchase and is
continuing its credit squeeze on an even
tighter basis.
May’s ins and outs of the sterling area
reserves-kitty show Britain still very
much in the position of Peter borrowing
to pay Paul playing the viability game
by ear, as it were. What mainly happened
with the reserves last month was that
Britain drew £stgsooo million from the
IMF and £stgl4 million from Swiss
sources, out of which it paid off £392
million owed to overseas central banks,
thus in effect funding a short-term (three
months) liability for a three to five year
one and putting the balance of £122 mil-
lion into reserves. The real gain to re-
serves was not £lBl million, but only
£59 million. This, of course, is not pea-
nuts. To get a realistic figure for sterling
area reserves at the end of May one has
to go behind the published total of
£stg 1021 million (which seems to have
been taken on its face value by most of
the Australian Press) and deduct the
debts owing to the IMF and Swiss
sources.
The latter debts at May 31 amounted
to £stgS99 million, so subtracting these
from the published figure for reserves
leaves real reserves at only £stgl22 mil-
lion. These are the calculations of the
London “Economist” not mine. They
had better be rounded off by saying that,
in the nine months to the end of May,
the journal estimates the net drain on
sterling reserves to have been £stgBol
million, even after taking into account a
real gain of £59 million in May. In effect,
of the published reserves figure of
£stgl 021 million at the end of May, all
but £stgl22 million are pledged as
credits. “The Economist” takes some
comfort, though not all that much, in the
thought that, including the official re-
serves of 2860 million dollars, at the end
of May Britain could line up something
like five billion additional dollars in
support of the pound.
In addition to published reserves, this
five billion dollars, it states, includes a
“swap line” of 750 million with the
Federal Reserve system (US), 250 million
drawable from the Export-Import Bank
(US) and the portfolio of 1250 million
(plus) US securities that the British Gov-
ernment has been liquefying (at Wall
Street peaks) in preparation for possible
use in the defence of sterling.
The bears of sterling are merely rest-
ing at the moment, no doubt preparing
for another assault. The big question is
how much of this additional ammunition
the Bank of England will have to fire at
them before they close their accounts.
They will be watching ever closely from
now on the progress made in righting
Britain’s balance of payments on current
account, and in stopping what at the
moment looks to be a drift towards in-
flation (retail prices rose by 1.9 p.c. in
April, the biggest monthly increase for
six years).
If this drift got out of hand, the task
of maintaining the sterling exchange at
its present level could become impos-
sible. It is on this factor, rather than on
the success achieved in closing the trade
gap (in which considerable progress has
been made, thanks to a good rise in
exports and a contraction in imports
helped on by the surcharge, now 10 p.c.
on these), that the final test for sterling
this year would seem to depend.
As 1 see it, the situation is boiling up
more or less in the same way as it did
in 1949, when from his Swiss sanatorium
Sir Stafford Cripps had to concede de-
valuation in September after resolutely
denying the possibility of it through a
long summer of bear pressures. I am not
suggesting that either Mr Wilson or Mr
James Callaghan will be in Switzerland
later this year, but the bears of sterling
might conceivably run for cover sooner
if they left Whitehall. An Australian
recently returned from Britain tells me
the feeling in some quarters there is that
Mr Callaghan should have devalued the
pound when the Labor Government took
office, and blamed the Tories for it.


Going, Going —Up!
Auctioneers wield an active hammer
Auction: n, public sale in which
articles are sold to the highest of
successive bidders (f. L audio increase,
auction).
So the Oxford Concise Dictionary has
it and so the Romans had a word for one
of the most vital and speedy forms of
sale yet devised. Although credit for the
auction system is given to the Roman
legions, even older Egyptian hieroglyphics
indicate that auctions, in some form or
other, existed in the time of the
Pharaohs. In ancient Egypt auctions
were conducted for the sale of grain.
However, refinements of the auction
came from the Romans. Returning from
their battles the legionnaires often dis-
puted the equitable distribution of the
booty they had collected. A sale sub
hasta (by the spear) was devised. The
Roman generals indicated, by throwing
a spear into the ground, where all booty
was to be placed. An auction then
followed with the highest bidder taking
off the item he had selected.
When all booty was sold, the money
raised by the sale was divided among
the soldiers. The system spread to the
towns and cities of Italy where the local
magistrate conducted the auctions.
Nero’s goods and personal effects are
believed to have been sold by auction.
With the decline and fall of the
Roman Empire came the decline and
deterioration of the auction system. It
was not developed further until many
centuries later, in 17th-century England,
when merchants placed their goods in
warehouses to be disposed of by auction.
History has it that the first auction sale
conducted under virtually present-day
conditions took place at Covent Garden
in the 1680 s.
Then in 1744, Sotheby’s, probably the
best-known auctioneer in the world to-
day, started. Twenty-two years later
Christies started. Both still exist and
both draw the wealthiest bidders to sales
of the most magnificent fine art and
jewellery the world can offer.
The first auction in Australia was held
in Sydney between 1830 and 1840. Sales
of merchandise were conducted on the
wharf where the ship bearing them had
berthed. Gradually techniques of auction,
the merchandise offered, and the place
of sale developed until auctioning be-
came what we know today.
But why auction? Says Sydney
auctioneer Geoff K. Gray, managing
director of Geoff K. Gray (Holdings)
Ltd:
“The private treaty is the surest way
to waste unprofitable hours in super-
vising inspection, protracted bargaining
and was the obvious defect of being in
a weak bargaining position by being the
obvious seller. The tender or sealed bid
eliminates the spirit of open competition
and gives the bidder the opportunity to
go in low.
“At auction, by open competitive
bidding, buyers are forced to fight for
what they want, and must make a
decision immediately, not a month from
now. It is not unusual at a well-organised
auction to see buyers from rival com-
panies bidding beyond their pre-deter-
mined limits, purely through trade
rivalry and to the obvious advantage of
the seller. This element is lacking in
other types of sales.”
Mr Gray forecasts an increasing num-
ber and growing size of fine art sales.
“In the fine art field there is going to
be growth because of continuing pros-
perity in the community. People are all
the time looking for something better to
improve their living standards. Fine art
purchases are investments, too.
“In the next ten to fifteen years you’ll
see paintings by Australian artists selling
for around the £12,000 mark. There will
also be an increasing demand for
antique furniture and jewellery,” Mr
Gray said.
Auctioneering in Australia today is
as advanced and as much promoted as
anywhere else in the world. Broadly
speaking, it falls into four categories:
chattels, machinery and industrial equip-
ment, real estate and livestock. For the
purposes of this article only the first two
will be discussed. Real estate and live-
stock auctioneering will be discussed in
a later article.
The auction, according to experts, has
come of age in Australia only in the
last 10 to 15 years. Increasing affluence,
automation, labor problems and cultural
awareness are some of the reasons
advanced for the increasing attention
being paid auctions. Two of the most
rapidly growing fields of auction are
fine art and industrial equipment. Some
auctioneers The Bulletin spoke to were
doubtful about the growth in industrial
equipment because of the increasing
incidence of automation.
A leader in the industrial auction
field, Mr A. W. Binskin, of A. W. Bin-
skin and Co. Pty Ltd, said because of
automation less and less machinery was
becoming available for sale. “Takeovers
have also affected the supply of equip-
ment for auction,” he said. “With larger
companies acquiring small engineers and
rationalising equipment there is less
machinery coming on to the market.
“When the smaller companies are
taken over it is hard to dispose of their
less modern machinery because buyers
want up-to-date equipment. Electronics
and automation have meant that where
once ten machines were required to do a
job, one can do it now.”
Although Binskin’s primary source of
income is industrial equipment, Mr Bin-
skin does not feel there are clouds on
his company’s horizon. “We will be
able to spread into more general forms
of auctioning,” he said.
Geoff Gray voices a different opinion
on the future of industrial equipment
auctions. “As the fine art field is likely
to grow so is industrial equipment. Wish
industry growing larger every day it is


What about C.S.R.?
What about B.H.P.P
What about Mount Isa, now?
If you can keep your head, when all
others are shaking unknowingly (and
waiting for the Budget) you’ll he in
front. You will recognise that at least
some stocks are gaining in market
strength, and will be well above present
levels by the time the great majority (of
investors, traders, brokers, and market
commentators) concede that “the mar-
ket” is rising again. The early runners
indeed have got away to a good start.
Stocks which we have been pointing out
in Trendex in recent weeks, such as
Kothmans, John Lysaght, A.E.C., and
and others, are performing well, and are
trading now at attractively higher levels.
The big catch, of course as it always
has been and always will be—is to pick
out those stocks which actually are going
to move (as distinct from those which
we are told “should” move for this, that,
or some other reason). By their actions
We shall know them. Most people work
on this principle all the time, whether at
work or at play. All the time, that is,
except for those crucial occasions on
Which they risk their hard earned money
on stocks in the market.
Look at the three companies at the top of
this page. Where is the broker or other
informed person who would deny that all
three are leaders, magnificently run en-
terprises, basic to the country’s economy,
and companies which Australia can' be
proud of? Grow? Of course they will con-
tinue to grow! Nevertheless, our port-
folio clients and our Trendex subscrib-
ers have not been holding them during
their declines they sold out at much
higher prices. Today, they are ready
with the cash to repurchase these or
Other stocks when there is direct evi-
dence that their individual downward
trends have terminated, and that rises in
price are in prospect again.
The answer to the question, then, is
whether a stock is likely to experience
favourable market action or not. Look
at John Lysaght, for example. Joining
the public list in May, 1961, it was one
of the most eagerly sought after new
floats, and amidst great excitement open-
ing sales in the stock took place up to
81/6. Nevertheless, over the ensuing
four years, the price of the stock gradu-
ally declined, and although occasional
rallies took place, Lysaght was selling at
49/- earlier this year. Not once over the
four years did we recommend purchase
of the stock, and new portfolio clients
holding it were advised to sell.
Now, however, the picture has changed.
The company is the same, of course, but
the market action of its stock has chang-
ed character completely. Last month
Trendex recommended the purchase of
John Lysaght. Last week it was selling
up around 58/-.
How does all this come about? It’s a case
of forgetting what the other fellow says
about this Company, or that Company.
If you are an investor, first satisfy your-
self that the Company is intrinsically
sound. If it is in a worthwhile and basic
industry, so much the better. You don’t
have to investigate this every week,
though. If B.H.P. was sound last week,
or even last month or last year, no doubt
it still is. Moreover, B.H.P. was just as
sound at 49/- last month as it was at 70/-
in 1962. The important thing, then, is to
decide on the probable market behaviour
which can he expected. That doesn't
mean that because George is buying, the
stock will rise, though. George is only
one of thousands.
In fact, when you look at it, it is obvious
that for every buyer in the market there
is also a seller. So what does it prove,
whether George is buying or selling? The
important point is whether the buyers
are likely to outbid the sellers, and force
prices upwards, or likely to be over-
whelmed by the sellers, in which case
prices will decline. How is this determin-
ed? Simply by looking at the market ac-
tion, and drawing the conclusion. Tech-
niques are necessary, of course. The un-
trained amateur would not be much
good at deciding the probable outcome
of a battle, simply by looking at a few
planes or listening to a few rumours.
The untrained observer looking at his
first game of football, baseball, jai alai,
or fan tan shouldn’t wager heavy money
on the probable outcome. But there are
rules, and these can be studied. Trendex
fully describes the techniques and rules
for observing market behaviour, and il-
lustrates them with copious examples.
The background book “Forecasting Aus-
tralian Stock Prices With Trendex” is a
do-it-yourself manual. If you are prepar-
ed to take the trouble, you indeed can do
it for yourself. To keep you on the rails,
with copious examples and follow-up
comment, Trendex comes Airmail every
week.
About C.S.R., 8.H.P., and Mount Isa?
Oh, yes. Most interesting cases. We dis-
cuss whether they will fall again, or
make real progress from here, in the cur-
rent issue of Trendex.
PUBLISHED BY M. D. GARRETTY & ASSOCIATES
INVESTMENT COUNSELLORS
PEARL ASSURANCE HOUSE, 151 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE. 67 1309
M. D. GARRETTY & ASSOCIATES, G.P.O. BOX 763, MELBOURNE.
Enclosed is remittance of £l2/12/- to cover one year’s subscription to
TRENDEX. I understand you will send also, without charge, your
background book “Forecasting Australian Stock Prices with Trendex”.
All sent airmail in Australia and New Zealand, without additional
charge. Other overseas rates on application.
NAME
ADDRESS.
MDG.37


NEW ISSUE FROM . . .
CUSTOM CREDIT
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Applications will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to in and attached
to a printed copy of the Prospectus which is
now available from any Member of a recognised
Stock Exchange and all Branches of . . .
THE NATIONAL BANK
and
CUSTOM CREDIT CORPORATION LTD.
OR THE UNDERWRITERS: .
Ord Minnett, T. J. Thompson & Partners
INTEREST
UP TO
0
r°
2
FOR
6YEARS
CC3.53.45
s>
2
WHO SAID THE SWISS HAVE NO KINGS OR QUEENS?
The King is you, sir. The Queen is you, madame, when you
fly Swissair, that fast-travelling, world-encompassing outpost
of Swiss charm.
Once you re in the hands of the Swissair people you receive
the royal treatment. The world calls it Swisscare. Their
jet-fleet receives very special Swisscare, too!
Swissair flies to 67 cities in 41 countries. How many coun-
tries will you visit on your next trip? You can be sure the
most convenient and rewarding way to go is by Swissair.
See your Travel Agent—he knows all about Swisscare.
A warm welcome awaits you aboard.
■f* SWISSAIR
SWISSCARE • WORLDWIDE
General Agents: Australia—Ansett-A.N.A.
New Zealand and Pacific islands—Air New Zealand
finding that it is not economical to have
someone sit at a desk all day trying :o
dispose of surplus equipment by private
treaty or tenders so it is turning to the
auctioneers.
“With take-overs there is often quite
a deal of duplicated equipment as the
end result. It must be disposed of quickly
and at a sensible price.”
President of the Auctioneers’ Associ-
ation of NSW (Inc.) and managing
director of F. R. Strange Pty Ltd, Mr
Karl Huenerbein said the auction busi-
ness at present was “very buoyant”. F.
R. Strange deals almost solely in indus-
trial auctions and handles sales for sev-
eral Government instrumentalities. Mr
Huenerbein said one of the problems
facing auctioneers was the lack of in-
surance “after the hammer has fallen”.
“I have conducted a sale where near-
ly all of the goods for auction were des-
troyed,- after the hammer had fallen,
by a bushfire. Few of the buyers were
insured but they still had to pay out.
The association is trying to arrange in-
surance after the hammer has fallen so
all buyers are covered in the event of
damage to their purchases.
“The association was formed in 1946
when the field became crowded with
people disposing of war-surplus goods.
A great number of auctioneers wanted
to get on the bandwagon and make a
quick killing. It was not formed to fix
rates of commission,” Mr Huenerbein
added.
A changing feature of the auction busi-
ness is the decreasing importance it is
placing in newspaper advertisements to
attract buyers. Mr Huenerbein said his
company was using more direct mail
advertising to tell potential buyers what
was offering. “If we advertise in news-
papers the chances are that people we
know will be interested won’t see what’s
for sale. By dealing with them directly
and sending them a catalogue they’re
more likely to come along.”
Geoff K. Gray, too, operates on simi-
lar lines but also hunts for goods to auc-
tion. He sends out catchy cards to vari-
ous trades, such as footwear, inviting
them to dispose of surplus or unwanted
goods and equipment by auction.
Although auctioneers are not ham-
strung by an old law which decrees auc-
tions shall be held only between sunrise
and sunset, one, at least, would like to
see night auctions. He is Mr Maxwell
J. Lawson, governing director of James
R. Lawson Pty Ltd, probably the oldest
and largest fine art auctioneer in Syd-
ney. Mr Lawson said the law was made
in the days before electricity, when
buyers often could not accurately deter-
mine the value and condition of goods
by candlelight. “Night auctions will de-
finitely come,” he said, “and it will pro-
bably not be too long before we see them.
There is no shortage of purchasers at
daytime auctions. I think we’d get more
if we could hold them after normal busi-
ness hours.”
Mr Lawson said he receives “a tre-
mendous number of enquiries for impor-
tant paintings and valuable antiques.
There is also a good demand for furni-
ture made around the 1920 s and 19305.
It is coming back into fashion now and
fetching good prices.”


Towards a National Railway Pattern
Giving meaning to overall development
By NEIL GUNTHER
/Yne glance at the railway map of Aus-
tralia reveals that, over 60 years
after Federation, there is yet only a rudi-
mentary national railway pattern. Con-
struction of a number of railways essen-
tial for defence and economic develop-
ment has not even reached the planning
stage. It is often said that a new railway
era has dawned with completion of the
Albury-Melbourne standard-gauge line,
the bogie transfer scheme for goods
vehicles of different gauges, and current
construction of the Broken Hill-Port
Pirie and Perth-Kalgoorlie standard-
gauge links. Important though these
moves are, they must be seen in a nation-
wide perspective.
Two major hindrances to the use of
Australia’s railways on a national scale
have yet to be tackled. These are lack
of rail connection between the central
north and areas of major population,
and absence of key cross-country lines
in two States. If the central north were
to be threatened again by enemy action
(and it would be imprudent to ignore the
possibility of this), our railways, except
at a distance, would still be of no use
in defence of that vital region. Apathy
at the highest level has caused wartime
lessons to go unheeded; the major
capitals have not so much as a projected
rail link with Darwin.
TTow farcical, then, it is to talk of pro-
moting the pastoral and agricultural
development of Northern Australia with-
out planning railways to make that de-
velopment possible! Beef roads in the
Northern Territory and WA only scratch
the surface of the problem and are based
on railheads at Alice Springs and Mount
Isa, which are not directly linked with
Sydney and Melbourne and are hope-
lessly far removed from much of the
region requiring to be developed. Lack
of cross-country lines vital to the over-
all development of individual States is
bound up with the out-of-date notion that
the chief function of a State’s rail system
is to provide access to and from its
capital city. Decentralisation of industry,
of immense importance if our cities are
not to strangle themselves while our
rural areas cry out for development,
obviously does not enter into railway
thinking.
Short-sightedness in this respect has
reached a peak in Victoria, where,
though fine words are often spoken about
decentralisation, many country lines
essential to it have been closed with
great determination and without good
reason.
A study of Australia’s railway map in
relation to defence and development
needs suggests over a dozen lines re-
quiring to be built in order to create a
satisfactory network. For obvious
reasons all should be standard-gauge
except two wholly Victorian ones.
T>ridging the incredible north-south gap
** must be given highest priority. This
involves conversion of the Marree-Alice
Springs section to standard-gauge, con-
struction of a line from the Alice to
Larrimah (terminus of the North Aus-
tralia railway), and conversion thence
to Darwin. The result will be an in-
estimably valuable first-class rail link
between Darwin and Stirling North (SA),
with 4ft Biin connection there, when
present projects are completed, direct to
all mainland capitals except Melbourne,
though it is proposed that the latter be
reached in an extra 250 miles on stan-
dard-gauge via Broken Hill, Roto, and
Tocumwal.
Extension of the NSW western line
from Bourke to Larrimah should receive
similar priority. As well as being of
great strategic value, this would provide
a necessary outlet for northern beef in
major south-east markets. With its north-
south partner, this line would benefit the
national economy by making possible
large-scale northern development and
the transfer of stock as required from
drought-stricken areas. Minor variation
from the direct route would allow this
railway to pass through Cunnamulla,
Quilpie, and Mount Isa for connection
with the Queensland system. A spur line
to Longreach would link the new route
to Rockhampton.
A branch should be built from the
combined transcontinental railway at
Katherine to tap the Kimberley district
at Wyndham, passing through the Ord
irrigation area en route.
Direct connection with Brisbane from
the Bourke-Larrimah line will require
the construction of a standard-gauge
track, the obvious junction being the
present SW Queensland railhead at Quil-
pie. Operation of two gauges in that
portion of Queensland between Quilpie
and the coast would be uneconomic.
Then the Darling Downs is the natural
extension of the New England plateau
and no rail separation of the two regions
at the border can be justified. The
logical solution to both problems is the
conversion to standard-gauge of all rail-
ways within the region bounded by Bris-
bane, Quilpie, and the NSW-Qld border.
Building of a Canberra-Yass railway
is a necessity once the ridiculousness of
adding 80 miles and three hours to the
Canberra - Melbourne rail journey by
travelling through Goulburn is admitted.
Not to build it is to treat the nation’s
capital as an obscure township to be
fobbed off with the sort of dismal train
service that our obscure townships get
nowadays.
Perhaps the most revolutionary pro-
posal is for a railway from Cooma
through the Snowy Mountains to
Cudgewa, end of the north-east Vic-
torian branch from Wodonga. This may
not commend itself to our railway heads,
who show virtually no appreciation of
the great possibilities of railways for
tourism (Melbourne’s privately controlled
Puffing Billy is Australia’s only regular
tourist train), but it makes sense to any-
one interested in building a notable
future for “Australia’s Switzerland”.
rpHE suggested route from Cooma
-*■ passes through Berridale, Jindabyne
(with a southward loop in each case to
secure an easy grade), the Thredbo
Valley, under the Main Range, down a
long descent around both sides of the
Geehi Gorge to Khancoban, then via
Towong Gap to Corryong (cattle capital
of the Upper Murray) and Cudgewa.
From there the existing scenic line to
Wodonga winds up the mountains to
Shelley and down again through Tallan-
gatta, with some 20 miles along the
edge of Lake Hume.
Two projects remain, calling for new
broad-gauge construction in Victoria if
it is assumed that the expense of con-
verting the entire Victorian system (and
with it the SA sft 3in system) to stan-
dard-gauge is not warranted. However,
this assumption may be open to question
if extensive re-building of Victorian lines
(in view of continuing astronomical


mi
m 2?
“I’m SELF-EMPLOYED and
providing for
retirement is a
straight business
proposition
for me”
If you’re self-employed, you get a
BUSINES
from the Self-Employed Persons Retirement Fund
recommended by the Bank of New South Wales.
Most self-employed people have to make
special provision for retirement. The prob-
lem is "How best to do it?”
The Self-Employed Persons Retirement
Fund offers you a good business proposi-
tion.
Here’s why—
Taxation concessions.
• Contributions may be deducted from
your personal income (up to the limit
of £4OO p.a. for superannuation and life
assurance payments).
• Income earned by your contributions is
tax-free and fully re-invested.
• Benefit which is paid as a lump sum is
not taxable. (Maximum benefit per-
mitted, now £40,000.)
fou can vary your contributions. You
don’t have to commit yourself to fixed con-
tributions. You may pay in any amount
at any time ... up to £4OO a year to the
age of 40; £BOO a year between the ages of
40 and 55; and £1,200 a year from age 55
to retirement.
Full benefit on retirement. After deduc-
tion of low management fees, your contri-
butions are invested and you receive the
full benefits.
Security. Your contributions to the Fund
are expertly invested, under Bank of New
South Wales supervision, in a wide range
of sound securities authorized by the Trust
Deed.
No age limit for membership. The Fund
is open to everyone whose principal source
of income is any profession or business
carried on by him alone or as a partner.
For full information and prospectus, call at
your nearest branch of the Bank of New
South Wales.
Application for membership can be accepted
only on the form of application attached to
the prospectus.
THE WALES SUPERANNUATION FUNDS LIMITED
a wholly owned subsidiary of the BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
52498
derailment figures) becomes inevitable.
A cross-country line from Tocumwal
through Echuca to Murtoa will permit
traffic movement from NSW and north-
ern Victoria to the main Melbourne-
Adelaide line without the present detour
via Melbourne. A direct line from Port
Fairy to Portland will give a much
better route through Victoria’s rich
western district to Mount Gambier (SA)
than is possible by present roundabout
lines which create maximum incon-
venience and thereby turn away a great
deal of traffic.
Now for the all-important question.
Where is the money for all this to come
from? Construction of every line
possessing a national character (Alice
Springs-Larrimah, Bourke-Larrimah, as-
sociated spurs, and re-gauging projects
everywhere) should be financed by the
Commonwealth, perhaps with some con-
tribution from States on the ground that
they will 'gain financially from these
new ventures. New interstate lines link-
ing NSW and Victoria should be the
financial responsibility of these two
States on a proportional mileage basis,
with some Commonwealth contribution
by reason of the importance of these lines
to national development. Projects solely
within either NSW or Victoria should be
financed by the respective States, with
Commonwealth help if necessary.
"lyo notice ought to be taken of any
NSW-Victorian objections that all
available money is already needed to
operate existing systems. Both States are
making no discernible effort to reduce
tremendous losses on passenger business,
to explore freight possibilities' other than
haphazardly, or to improve their tar-
nished public image. Both are stubbornly
pursuing a motive-power policy of cal-
culated extravagance. These projects
may well provide the impetus needed to
put the NSWGR and VR houses in
order.
It may be argued in some quarters
that the great sums of money required
to finance all these rail projects would
be better spent on such items as educa-
tion, housing, expressways and defence.
The obvious reply is that, if Australia is
to become a first-class nation, sufficient
finance must be found for national rail-
ways as well as for social and defence
spending. All these railways are neces-
sary for national development and most
of them for national defence. The point
is not whether we can afford to have a
national railway pattern. In view of the
urgency of developing and defending
Australia, it is simply whether we can
afford any longer not to have one.


m
i*?!
!■*»
e>
7>
7 Vl'
3
e¥fc
3 V e
7°f°
Yl mon^.
nths
4>
>
7
i v ears
6°fo
6 rrton]£t
Em
I
p.a.
3
years
How
to
{lnvest
OBTAIN A PROSPECTUS from
• Any Stockbroker.
• Any branch of the National Bank of
Australasia Limited.
• Any store or office of Waltons Limited,
• Waltons Credit Corporation Limited. Box
3875, G.P.0., Sydney.
Applications must be lodged on the
appropriate form issued with the Prospectus.
LV/il ■. M: M
INVESTMENT
Surprise from a Giant
ICIANZ hands out shock treatment
rpHERE is little doubt that the heavy
•*" profit fall announced by ICIANZ
last week took nearly all investors and
market observers by complete surprise.
In the first six months to March 31, the
profit tumbled from £2,329,000 to
£1,629,000. Not that the possibility of
a setback had been entirely discounted.
Many observers were quite prepared for
a slightly lower result in the light of
certain productive problems which were
known to be in existence. However,
few expected the problems to have such
a drastic effect on profits.
Even allowing for these, though, the
result is still an extremely poor one. It
included for the first time figures
from Australian Fertilizers, ACF and
Shirleys, Colonial Ammunition, and
Fibremakers. None of these was in-
cluded in the consolidated result to
March 31, 1964. To this stage, at
least, their inclusion appears to have
done more harm than good as the re-
sult is after tax up from £1,299,000 to
£1,627,000 and depreciation up by
more than £1 million to £2,861,000.
Both these substantial increases, in par-
ticular depreciation, were due to the in-
corporation of the new subsidiaries. In
fact, profit before deducting these two
items actually rose slightly.
This would seem to indicate that the
result is not quite so bad as it looks.
There is another factor worth keeping
in mind —sales for the period actually
rose quite considerably from
£42,476,000 to £56,988,000. Moreover,
the position should be only short term.
Most of the production difficulties were
with new plant, on which the group is
spending twice as much this year as in
1963-64. Teething troubles are very
rarely avoided. Nevertheless, the mar-
ket was justified in marking the shares
back by the few shillings that it did.
One shudders to think what would have
happened if the interim dividend had
not been held steady at 3 p.c.
The fact that it was maintained pro-
vides encouragement for the future also.
The group had every reason to cut it
back. The profit equalled only 8.3 p.c.
on capital on an annual basis, said by
one newspaper to be the lowest rate in
the group's entire history. Earning rate
was 13.3 p.c. in the first half of 1963-
64 and about 12.6 p.c. for the full year.
If profits continued at their present low
ebb for the rest of the year, it would
hardly be wise to pay another li p.c.
dividend on the 20s. shares. On the
strength of the steady interim, therefore,
it would seem that directors are expect-
ing a recovery in this last half. Most of
the problems are said to be overcome
now, so some improvement will not be
difficult to achieve.
There is likely to be quite a bit of
speculation in the shares for a few -more
days now until the price settles on one
level. More speculation can be expected
as the date for the annual profit and
dividend announcement draws near.
Not Cocksure
Bros’ scheme designed to solve
the problems of its overborrowing
was announced last week. The facts
seem fairly clear. The company plans to
convert £11! million odd of unsecured
deposits into 8 p.c. debentures of equal
value, repayable between 1968 and 1972.


•„> ■
; T*..
Automatic
Automatic pilot takes the work out of course-
keeping. You set the course: George keeps to it,
regardless. Gives peace of mind. Frees the skipper
for other duties. Like when a convention is to be
arranged. The team of experts at Chevron Hotel,
backed by the colossal resources of this great
hotel, pilot the planners through all the shoals.
Experience tells. If you are to convene a conven-
tion, write to or talk it over with the Chevron Hotel
management: No further worries.
Package deals tailored to your requirements cover
every little detail. And at a very fair price.
Get with it . . . with us.
AUSTRALIA'S GREAT CONVENTION CENTRE
CHEVRON HOTEL
35-0433
MACLEAY STREET, POTT'S POINT, SYDNEY
CHEV. 2071
Its main purpose is to delay the maturity
date of the moneys as more time is need-
ed to complete the programme of con-
traction and profit restoration.
Depositors will be asked to approve
the scheme at a meeting on June 30.
Their trustee recommends acceptance,
since the chances of repayment are be-
lieved to be greater under the scheme.
In fact, unless depositors pass the scheme
on June 30, the group will be unable to
meet its debts and will automatically go
into receivership.
In addition, the scheme must be ap-
proved before more than £4 million
can be borrowed from financial insti-
tutions this must be obtained to pay
debts (apart from the deposits) which
fall due soon.
At least Sir Frank Richardson and his
friends appear to be doing their best,
late as their remedial actions may be.
But with an annual interest bill to pay
every year on from £l6 million to £2O
million borrowed, the feeling is ever pre-
sent that the group, even when earning
profits, may find itself in a vicious circle
from which only a miracle will save it.
Sweet Issue
A one-for-eight premium issue from
Cottees Ltd the first time in ten
years shareholders have been asked to
contribute funds follows the group’s
share issues for takeovers and capitalisa-
tion of reserves and assets revaluation
through a series of bonus issues over the
last few years.
The shares will be offered at 12s. 6d.
a 7s. 6d., or 150 p.c., premium on the
ss. par value. They will be payable in
full by the middle of next month. The
shares involved will rank for dividend
from April 1 this year.
The issue will lift ordinary paid capital
to £710,000. The premium will raise
£118,312 while capital gains £78,875.
The issue is the first since 1955 when,
for the first time, Cottees offered new
shares for par on a 23-for-100 basis.
This followed an issue at one-for-three at
par in 1954. The company’s previous
issue was a one-for-four bonus in 1962.
Ringing Bells
A lthough the prospectus will not be
available until early next month, it
is already quite on the cards that the
investor who is allotted shares in Bell
Bros Holdings will be lucky indeed. The
group operates in Western Australia and
has played a major part in the State’s
industrial development. The public is
to be offered H million ss. shares or
one third of the holding company’s post-


Your Norwich Union
Consultant shows
you how to get the
best in "LIFE” ...
You should choose your
Life Insurance Consultant with
$s much care as your
family Solicitor or Doctor, because
fte is responsible for ensuring
the security and welfare of your
wife, your children and yourself.
(NORWICH UNION Consultants
are carefully selected men of
Integrity who are trained to give
personal service of the highest
6rder, by tailoring Life Insurance
to individual needs.
•04/M/M
Norwich Union
LIFE INSURANCE SOCIETY
A Mutual Society founded In 1808
REPRESENTED THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
A MEMBER OF THE NORWICH UNION/SCOTTISH ifNION GROUP
MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
PER
ANNUM
7-20
YEARS
DEBENTURE
Applications for Debentures and Unsecured Notes,
accepted only on the form referred to in and’‘attached to
the printed prospectus which is available from:
ANY BRANCH OF
THE BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE
COMPANY LTD.
316 Pitt St., Sydney
Tel. 61-9701
■
ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
IMA.gQg.NBW
float capital. These will be issued at what
the underwriters, A. C. Goode and Co.,
term a “modest” premium. This Mel-
bourne stockbroking firm has already
taken the issue firm for its clients, which
is good evidence of the float’s worth.
Predicted dividend, past profits, assets
backing, etc., are simply not available as
yet. However, the prospectus should show
that all these items are of a favorable
nature. In conjunction with the float a
£500,000 debenture issue will be made.
It thus seems that expansion plans are
on hand.
Heavy haulage contracts are held with
many leading WA industrial organisations
and with Government and local govern-
ment authorities. Sand, gravel, limestone
and road metal quarries operate in Perth
and the country areas. The hiring of
heavy equipment for industrial develop-
ment is an important part of the busi-
ness; in this connection, the group is
participating with the major Australian
and overseas groups which are developing
iron ore leases in the north-west of WA.
One can picture A. C. Goode’s clients
rubbing hands with glee and at such
a “modest” premium”!
Chemical Takeovers
\ MALGAMATED CHEMICALS LTD has aC-
quired four proprietary companies
after a cash and share transaction in-
volving about £106,000. The four com-
panies, all Sydney-based, produce agri-
cultural chemicals with emphasis on the
veterinary field.
They are Alan Muston Pty, Alan
Muston Sales Pty, John Morrison and
Co. Pty, and Standard Paint and Oil
Co. Pty. The deal was financed with a
payment of £35,381 in cash and an issue
of 105,900 Amalgamated Chemical ss.
shares at a premium of Bs. 7.2 d. a share.
The share transaction is thus worth about
£70,600.
Shares issued in the takeover rank
equally with existing shares, with the
proviso that they are not to be sold
before July 1 next year. On the day of
announcement the already-listed shares
fell 3d. to close at Bs. 9d.
Rosy Gordon
HThe future looks good for Gordon and
A Gotch. Plans on hand indicate that
shareholders could well see a par issue in
the not too distant future. Profit for
1964-65 has been announced at a record
£569,000, equal to a healthy 32.7 p.c.
on ordinary capital. The result was des-
pite lower sales of magazines and perio-
dicals in New Zealand. These should
pick up to unprecedented heights eventu-


When you gel off the beaten track there’s a lot of laughs to be had by bargaining for what you purchase.
Who discovered SINGAPORE?
We did! The travel agent started it by explaining it wouldn’t cost a penny
more to stop-over in Singapore, on our way to Europe. On those terms who
would miss the chance to go on a voyage of discovery!
So we came to Singapore. The friendly, cosmopolitan people welcomed us
to their fascinating country and we were set fair to uncover an array of
spectacle and excitement that gave real meaning to the saying—‘You see
more of the Orient in Singapore.’ Take a glimpse at this magical island
with us and you too will be taking the first steps towards discovering wonder-
ful Singapore.
SHOPPING —like Aladdin’s Caves! You name it —
they’ve got it here, and at prices that make you feel like a king! Singapore
is a duty-free port and that means you can buy the whole world's luxuries
at prices that put the fun back into shopping. Cameras, transistor radios,
rare fabrics, jewellery, and works of art from all over the Orient. All this
and you buy in the friendliest surroundings imaginable. When you get off
the beaten track there’s a lot of laughs to be had by bargaining for what
you purchase.
What could we do when we were offered a 2 band, 8 transistor portable for
A£6! We bought it! And lots of similar bargains: now we can't stop con-
gratulating ourselves.
HONG HONG
GKOKX> c
tNGARORf
V OARW»N>
4Ho »<■>',
SO *<«*»&
YDNEY
PERTH
4H<Mxt 25
WEST AUSTRALIANS, do you know that it is
almost as cheap to travel to Singapore as it is to
visit Sydney. In about the same time that it
takes to fly from Perth to Sydney-you could be
setting foot in the heart of the Orient — Singapore.
For lots of exciting information, consult your travel agent about
your stop-over in Singapore or write to Singapore Government
Tourist Information Service, 15 Grosvenor Street, Sydney, 343
Little Collins Street, Melbourne or Industry House, Canberra.
QilKjdP<->|*k!
ally, when the populace grows weary of
their new novelty television.
In the meantime there are plans for
new premises in Melbourne, Adelaide and
Wellington. A property at Hawthorn
(Melb.) has been purchased and all local
activities will eventually be centred
there.
This expansion will require cash which
could well be raised by an issue, although
it is undeniable that a conservative firm
like this may choose to finance such
activities from a different source. Never-
theless, shareholders may hope. The
earning rate would permit a small issue
as well as the maintenance of the cur-
rent 20 p.c. dividend rate on the higher
capital.
Machinery Mess
O ydney - based machinery merchant
Moffat-Virtue Ltd has incurred an-
other and larger loss in the year to
December 31. The latest deficit of
£39,985 is the fourth in succession and
brings total losses to £107,745. The
latest loss has meant that payment of
the preference dividend (which requires
£2000) is now four years in arrears.
In their annual report directors say
the loss was accentuated by disorganisa-
tion caused by the take-over offer of
R. A. Brierly Investments of New
Zealand. Moffat-Virtue rejected the offer
of 6s. a 12s. 6d. share and directors say
“it is noted there is still an infiltration of
the company through day-to-day pur-
chases on the Stock Exchange”.
Prior to the offer, turnover was higher
than in the corresponding period of the
previous year. But in the closing months
of the year turnover was 21 p.c. below
normal, directors add.
Moffat-Virtue 12s. 6d. shares, on
which a dividend has not been paid for
10 years, are presently priced at 4s. 3d.
their lowest point this year.
Not Very Great
Tt seems the 1964-65 dividend hopes of
Traralgon (Vic.)-based Great Eastern
Brick must be deferred until at least
1965-66. Difficulties encountered in the
first half of the current year limited the
production of clay bricks, so profits will
be small for the six months.
Although the problem has been largely
overcome in the current half, it is doubt-
ful whether the improvement in perform-
ance will make up for the poor efforts
prior to December 31. Clay-brick pro-
duction is much higher now. But demand
is still exceeding supply, so directors are
considering further increases in output.


-vs^s
***%*#®m* : r%, — v /*?s& ' : :-4'< ••••
J
m
UNVARIED '
4/
1964
'*'\tac.<\;
ORLANDO
"'fIULY
VINTACED AUSTRAI.IAN
, Vine
JP#a*
S:
tSS&iSgS^
vimotD i
C.lil\ni*«* ',-nl _
0H«-n 0
NKT'
TOP PRIZE
WINNER FOR
TWELVE YEARS
Since its introduction in 1953, Orlando
Barossa Riesling has won more awards
than any other Australian Riesling.
One hundred and thirty-two major
awards, in fact, including Gold and
Silver Medals, Championships and Gups
• throughout Australia and in Europe.
Last year, its greatest honour was the
Gold Medal awarded at the International
Viticultural and Wine Fair at Mont-
pellier, France, world-famous centre
for wine Study and research.
Every bottle of Barossa Riesling awarded
a prize has been taken at random from
stock proof positive of the wine’s
unfailing consistency.
Two major reasons why you can rely
on Barossa Riesling are:
* It is bottled in the traditional European
amber Riesling bottle, in preference to
a green bottle, because Riesling needs
bottle age, and amber glass keeps
out the light while the wine is aging.
* It is one of the very few Australian
Rieslings vintaged 100% from Rhine
Riesling grapes.
ORLANDO
BAROSSA
RIESLING
Orlando Barossa Riesling is made by
3 G. Gramp and Sons Pty. Ltd., in South Australia’*
famous Barossa Valley.
1 0983
On the other hand, sales of silica lime
bricks have not shown much improve-
ment although production is still profit-
able.
The last dividend from the group was
12i p.c. in 1961-62. The payout had
been cut from 15 p.c. in the previous
year after earnings had slipped from 19.9
p.c. to 16 p.c. Last year’s profit was a
meagre £99, equalling next to nothing on
capital it was down from the £16,000
profit of 1962-63, which equalled 13.7
p.c. on capital. The group’s future does
appear brighter now. Profits are at last
being made from clay-brick production,
the better selling of the two types of
brick. In February, 1964, an American
extruder was installed at the plant, enab-
ling profits to be made. Had it not been
for the limited production in the first
half of the current year, shareholders
may well have seen a 1964-65 dividend.
Pant, Pant!
npwEEDSiDE Manufacturing continues
A its up-one-year-down-the-next trend.
Shareholders have received a pleasant
surprise with the news that an interim 3i
p.c. will be distributed after improved
results in the half-year to April 30. No
dividend was paid last year after pro-
fits had slipped from £6632 to £1632.
This did not even cover the £2lOO pre-
ference requirement.
But in 1962-63 a total 31 p.c. was
paid from the £6632 profit, which equal-
led 4.3 p.c. on ordinary capital. In the
previous year. 1961-62, the payout had
been 81 p.c. from a £9717 profit and
earnings of 9.2 p.c. Prior to that, in
1960-61, there was no payout as profit
was a mere £lO4O.
Such violent fluctuations are not un-
expected, however. The company is
caught between unpredictable raw mate-
rial costs (mainly wool) and the neurotic
fashion garments market. Possibly the
latest improvement will be more per-
manent than anything scored in the past.
Shareholders were told last year that any
scheme which gave more stability to the
wool market would benefit the group. In
addition, there has been an increasing
concentration on the manufacture of
yarns and other products which are not
so subject to the demands of fashion
trends.
Both these factors will be even more
important in the future. The improve-
ment in the latest half seems more attri-
butable to the company’s normal manu-
facturing business. At balance date last
year, this section had enough orders to
operate satisfactorily for “some months”.
Shareholders will hope that operations
between now and October 31 will allow
a final 3i p.c. payout.


SECURITY ANALYSIS
A New Zealand Based Insurer
South British compared with Australian companies
FFhere seems little doubt that the
A South British Insurance Co. Ltd is
the largest of the fire and general in-
surance companies which are of Aus-
tralasian origin. As at the last balance
date (and prior to the last bonus issue),
its shareholders’ funds were more than
fifty p.c. greater than those of the
Queensland Insurance Company and the
unexpired risk reserve was nearly 90 p.c.
greater. Nevertheless, the shares of the
South British have not been as popular
with Australian investors over the last
five years as those of the Queensland
and the Mercantile Mutual. This has
been the position despite the fact that
the South British shares should have
been more available and perhaps better
known since the acquisition of the
United Insurance Company by a share
exchange. This can perhaps be demon-
strated with reference to the s dividend
yields, as was done when comparing the
Queensland and the Mercantile Mutual.
Year 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
Mercantile 2.8 2.4 2.5 2.2 3.0
Queensland 2.9 2.3 2.5 2.2 3.0
South British 2.9 3.0 3.1 3.3 3.4
Whereas the yields from the two Aus-
tralian companies tended to decline from
1960, the yield from the New Zealand
company has tended to increase. It is
possible that the change in the tax
position which was the subject of an
announcement by the company in
November, 1963, could have been
responsible to some extent for the drop
in the last two dividend yields in the
above series so far as the South British
is concerned. This would not account
for the evident trend in the two pre-
ceding years.
Generally the dividend income record
of the South British over the last ten
years has been as satisfactory as that of
the Australian companies. In fact, it
seems to be rather better than that of the
Mercantile Mutual and approximately
equal to that of the Queensland in terms
of the absolute increase over this period.
However, it must be admitted that there
is very little to choose between these
three companies so far as dividend in-
creases are concerned, although some
quite significant variations might occur
according to the base year selected.
Year 1955 '59 '6O '6l '62 '63 '64
Mercantile 100 143 153 163 163 163 172
Queensland 100 154 154 210 154 185 185
South British 100 125 150 150 175 175 181
If the South British pays a dividend
of I2i p.c. this year, as seems popularly
supposed, and no issues are made by the
other two companies, then the index
figures for 1965 will be as follows:
Mercantile Mutual 182
Queensland 185
South British ]B5
The most notable difference between
the New Zealand company and the two
Australian companies is that, while the
former has tended to increase the divi-
dend rate between bonus issues, the
latter have both maintained a steady
dividend rate. This would mean that
the South British shares would show a
somewhat higher effective return over
this ten-year period.
When we examine the percentage
which investment income bears to the
unadjusted ordinary capital, we find that
the Queensland shows the highest return
but the South British shows the greatest
rate of increase in this figure:
Year 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
Mercantile 13.7 13.9 16.4 18.9 18.2
Queensland 16.9 17.5 19.3 20.0 21.7
South British 13.9 16.5 17.5 18.7 19.4
At this stage, it is appropriate to point
out that the two Australian companies
have a much higher cover for their divi-
dend rates than has the South British.
Perhaps from this point alone it is
appropriate that the share price should
be rather higher. But if we were to base
the price on the “investment income”
ratio, we could suggest the following
relationship between the prices of the
shares:
Mercantile 74/- 62/-
Queensland 84/- 747-
South British 33/- 27/-
The last sale in Sydney took place at
385., and at the close of business on
June 9 the buyer was offering 375. 6d. and
the seller was asking 38s. 3d. These
prices would seem to over-value the
shares in relation to investment income.
On the other hand, the immediate divi-
dend yield is rather more attractive pro-
vided the problems of New Zealand
taxation are ignored.
Currently, the rate of return on the
investment portfolio seems to be about
the same as the rate of return on the
investment portfolio of the Mercantile
Mutual and is therefore rather lower
than that of the Queensland.
In the articles on the Queensland and
the Mercantile Mutual, I have drawn
attention to the sources of funds that
have gone to build up the investment
portfolio. In the case of the South
British, it is apparent that the company
seems to have made a practice of dis-
tributing most of the met income arising
from the investments. In fact the per-
centage which ordinary dividend payouts
have borne to investment income over
the last five years has been as follows:
Year 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
Percentages 100.0 90.8 99.7 93.4 94.2
Investment income which has been
retained only seems to amount to about
£NZIBB,OOO out of a total increase of
about £NZB million. In other words,
the whole of the increase in the portfolio
has arisen from underwriting activities,
since the company has not raised any
funds from its shareholders for nearly
40 years. It may therefore be useful to
compare the trends of the three com-
panies so far as underwriting results are
concerned. The following indices relate
to the totals of underwriting surplus plus
transfers to unexpired risks reserve:
Index 1960 = 100
1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
Mercantile 100 72 41 91 23
Queensland .... 100 87 99 97 122
South British .. 100 96 80 98 127
To sum up, the South British has the
best record of dividend increases, the
current gross dividend yield is higher,
dividend cover is much lower and the
rate of return on the investment port-
folio is unexceptional. Underwriting
results seem about the same as those of
the Queensland. I would suggest that the
shares are probably over-priced at
present in relation to the prices of the
two Australian companies.
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (£'000)
Year to
August 31 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
Ordinary capital 4840 4850 4850 4850 4850
Reserves 6744 8197 8758 9250 9803
Shareholders'
funds' 11584 13047 13608 14100 14653
Minority interests 94 97 105 115 123
Unexpired risk
reserve 5322 6696 6824 7283 8105
Claims, creditors,
etc. 5497 6788 6760 7085 7921
Other liabilities 363 364 486 484 526
Total liabilities 22860 26992 27783 29067 31328
Property 1430 3219 3427 3799 4517
Public securities 9828 10873 10166 10089 10957
Mortgage loans N.A.S. N.A.S. N.A.S. N.A.S.
Company
securities 3120 2753 3381 3742 4096
Other invest-
ments 3000 4122 5587 5459 5724
Cash, deposits
and other
assets 3362 3485 2793 3610 3207
Agents' balances 2120 2540 2429 2368 2827
22860 26992 27783 29067 31328
REVENUE ACCOUNT SUMMARIES (£'000)
Increase in
unexpired
risk reserve 327 234 128 459 773
Underwriting
profit 536 590 559 390 324
Investment income 673 800 851 908 943
Minority interest 10 8 12 15 13
Ord. dividend 673 727 849 849 889
Investment income
as percentage of
ord. capital 13.9 16.5 ‘ 17.5 18.7 19.4
Ord. div. p.c. 15.0 15.0 17.5 17.5 18.33
Div. yield p.c. (a) 2.9 3.0 3.1 3.3 3.4
High price (b) 70/ 65 '6 74/- 74/ 70/
Low price (b) 59/6 57 6 59/- 65 - (c)4O/-
(a) Based on last sale in November when accounts
presented.
(b) Calendar year.
(c) After one-for-two bonus issue.


Think of
all the things
you can do
with our money.
j
That new boat you have promised
yourself for so long.
Or that trip to New Zealand, or fo
Norfolk, or you name it.
Or that machine system which will
streamline your accounts procedure.
Or more mundane things: a set of
partitions; an electric typewriter; new
office Venetians.
Using our money you can buy prac-
tically anything your heart desires, or
your circumstances demand. Our terms
are competitive. Our finance services
let you lease, hire and purchase; of
take out a low cost loan.
Call the ASL office in your State,
Where money is no object.
Associated
Securities
Limited
ncaM-
SYDNEY: 27 O'Connell Street. 25 5281
MELBOURNE: 147 Queen Street. 676551
BRISBANE: 6 Queen Street. 21991
HOBART: 1488 Collins Street. 22426
ADELAIDE: 72 Hlndmarsh Square. 87183
PERTH: 155 Adelaide Terrace, 233913
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
To a Golden Future
Chickens on the everyday table
HThe growth of Melbourne-based Golden
Poultry Farming Industries Ltd since
it turned public nearly four years ago
has been nothing short of fantastic. The
accompanying table shows the lift in
profits from £26,000 to £lOO,OOO be-
tween 1961-62 and 1963-64. Over the
same period sales have jumped from
£616,000 to £1,575,000, and earning
rate has climbed from 12.7 to 35.3 p.c.
Dividends have been 10 p.c. and share-
holders have enjoyed the benefits of a
one-for-four par issue.
The current 1964-65 year has seen a
continuance of these heady trends. Sales
are expected to have been lifted by
between 40 p.c. and 50 p.c., to about
£2.2 million, or possibly more. Profits
should be well up, although the indica-
tions are that increasing competition has
kept the percentage increase much
below that scored by sales. Shareholders
have already collected a steady interim
dividend of five p.c. (indicating another
10 p.c. for the full year) and partici-
pated in a second par issue (this time
a one-for-five).
Earning rate will probably show a
more sober trend. Year-end ordinary
capital will be up from £270,000 to
about £394,000. The increase has been
brought about by the par issue (£64,000),
a placement (£50,000 it also raised
£90,000 in premiums) and an allotment
to executive directors under an option
agreement between themselves and the
company (£10,000). On this higher
capital, last year’s profit would have
equalled 24.4 p.c. after deducting
preference requirements. Even disregard-
ing the fact that the current year’s
profit will be substantially better than
£lOO,OOO, this rate is still very high and
adequately covers the 10 p.c. dividend.
Of course, the problem is to determine
how long these booming trends will
continue, allowing for the fact that the
growth rate must gradually level out.
Consumer demand for the group’s type
of poultry meat has already proved to
be more than a novelty. Some scepticism
met the shares when they were first
listed, as the prices in the table show.
The market now recognises that this
was unjustified and, even after the recent
one-for-five issue, the ss. shares are still
fetching 14s. and yielding about 3i p.c.
from the dividend after brokerage.
Being a relatively new industry, it is
hard to gauge what lies ahead. These
figures may give some indication: it is
estimated that Australia’s annual con-
sumption of chicken meat is between
51b and 61b a head. However, experi-
ence in the UK and the USA indicates
that benefits passed on to the public from
larger scale production and improved
processing techniques should cause this
average figure to rise to at least 351 b a
head eventually. Having regard to this,
the company’s future should indeed be
golden, providing it can maintain its
market percentage (estimated at between
55 p.c. and 60 p.c. of the Victorian
market) and avoid the perils of over-
capitalisation while it is expanding.
The company was incorporated in
September, 1961 (listed three months
later), to acquire Golden Poultry Hold-
ings Pty Ltd. This had been formed in
1959 as a holding company for the
whole group. Today’s three other sub-
sidiaries are Golden Poultry Farm Pty
Ltd (the principal operating company,
formed in 1955), Golden Poultry Farm-
ing Research Pty Ltd, and General
Provedors Pty Ltd. A breeding farm and
hatchery is operated near Mornington.
From here, day-old chicks are supplied
to a nucleus of contract growers or
farmers, who fatten and raise them for
delivery to the processing plant at
Somerville. After processing they are
packaged and chilled for delivery in
insulated vehicles to rotisseries, super-
markets, clubs, hotels, etc.
At last year’s annual meeting, share-
holders were told that the hatchery at
Mornington was producing 125,000
chicks a week, while the Somerville plant
was turning out 3600 processed birds
an hour—either for sale in the “fresh
chilled” or “frozen” pack. In the current
year, further expansion has taken place.
The group can barely keep up with
demand. Sales were up by 48 p.c. in
the nine months to March 31.
Obviously, the main long-term aim is
to move poultry meat out of the special
occasion category into everyday usage.
This will, of course, necessitate lower
prices, or steady prices, over the next few
years as salaries increase throughout the
economy. The production boost to the
3600 birds an hour last year enabled a
move in this direction by reducing the
unit costs per bird.
Another key to the future, which the
company recognises only too well, is
to keep abreast of new technical know-
how and mechanisation so as to main-
tain the present rigid control over pro-
duction costs. Executives regularly go
overseas for these purposes and to keep
an eye on the latest marketing ideas.
From inception, efforts have been centred


ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1961(a)
1962
1963
1964
Current assets
97
280
410
626
Less current liabilities 72
196
382
330
Working capital
25
84
28
"96
Fixed assets
98
242
329
386
Intangibles
1
17
8
8
124
333
365
490
Ordinary capital
48
206
206
270
Reserves
18
5
26
94
Preference capital
—
50
50
50
Loan capital
58
82
83
76
124
333
365
490
Depreciation
8
11
28
37
Tax
5
7
15
40
Net profit
15
26
59
100
Dividend (b)
—
10
25
32
Surplus
—
16
34
68
Ord. earning rate p.c.
7.2
12.7
26.6
35.3
Dividend Rate p.c.
—
2£
10
10
Dividend yield (c)
—
5.4
3.3
High price (d)
—
7/6
11/6
17/4
Low price (d)
—
5/5
6/3
10/3
(a) Adjusted figures
from
prospectus.
(b) Including £4250
preference dividend.
(c) End October, month results announced.
(d) Calendar year.
How you go
M,
m*
m
m*
ORBIT
¥/
where you go
...go through
TRAVEL
SERVICES
PTY. LTD.
it costs no more!
Free services include the
arranging of your trans-
portation and hotel reser-
vations, passports, visas
(also U.K. Entry Permits),
health documents, foreign
currency and personal
and baggage insurance.
Travel now—pay later
facilities.
SYDNEY:
116 King St., 28 2681
MELBOURNE:
374 Bourke St., 67 7071
BRISBANE:
119 Queen Street, 2-2328
Official agents for all
air, sea, rail and coach
companies throughout the
world.
HALE SCHOOL
Wembley Downs, Western Australia
requires
A University Graduate to teach Chemistry
up to Matriculation, with some Physics.
Possibility of charge of Chemistry Depart-
ment for right man.
Basic Salary Scale in line with Western
Australian Education Department up to
£2,300 per annum.
Applications in writing, stating age,
marital status, qualifications, experience and
religious denomination, and enclosing testi-
monials and the names of two Referees,
should be addressed to The Headmaster,
Hale School, Wembley Downs, Western
Australia.
on the establishment of a sound and
integrated structure which can lower
production costs, provide sound control
and give a firm base for future expansion.
The addition last year of the latest
incubators and hatchers, plus the employ-
ment of extra technical staff, enabled
fertility and hatchability percentages to
be improved. The growing farms turned
in better results. Over the last four
years, average weight gain per year per
bird has been £lb over a ten-week grow-
ing period, with a corresponding gain in
food conversion ratios. All these items
are merely small examples of the tech-
nical work of the group. It is a leader
in this field and must continue to be
so if it is to share in what appears to
be a very bright future for the industry.
The excellence of the management is
also reflected in the interests which are
gradually sprouting up outside the main
activities. Exports are growing every
year. The General Provedors subsidiary
was established to handle associated lines
which would still fit in with the distribu-
tion set-up. Depots were opened at Shep-
parton, Colac and Adelaide last year.
Last Christmas the group started market-
ing turkeys. One Melbourne store
offered to take all production over the
period. Total demand was more than
twice production. It is obviously
seasonal, but directors will be giving
greater attention to this phase in future.
The table shows in figures the aston-
ishing growth already discussed. Both
current assets and current liabilities have
more than doubled since listing. Work-
ing capital at June 30, 1964, was satis-
factory, though there is little doubt that
the group could have used more with
such rapidly expanding demand. The
issue, placements and allotment men-
tioned above will have solved this
problem. Fixed assets show a steady
growth trend, but there will be further
increases in future as capacity is, as
always, very strained. Intangibles are
gradually being written back, the £BOOO
showed representing mainly goodwill on
consolidation.
Ordinary capital has also been low in
the light of expansion. Increases in the
1964-65 year have already brought it
more into line. Reserves are, of course,
low at this stage, though showing a
healthy growth trend, nevertheless.
Preference capital was placed with Devon
Credits in 1961-62, at the rate of 8i p.c.
Loan capital is also low in view of the
growth so far.
To sum up: most definitely a growth
stock. Current prices appear to be an
accurate market assessment of worth.
Profits are on the up and up and will
not stabilise for some time. Further ex-
pansion and shareholders’ issues seem
inevitable. There could well be another
within 12 months. However, a slowing
rate of growth and increasing competi-
tion will make premium issues more
practical in the future. Whether a
premium will actually be charged is, of
course, another matter. The shares
should only be bought for the medium
term. Long-term buyers must keep an
eye on the success of expansion. If the
group is still highly profitable when this
settles, bigger dividends and/or bonus
issues from built-up reserves should pro-
vide further benefits.
PLASTYNE PRODUCTS (HOLDINGS) LTD
Squeezing a Specialist
dangers inherent in investing in
A a specialist manufacturer are clearly
demonstrated by the profit history of
Plastyne Products (Holdings) Ltd, which
floated as a public company in late 1960,
just prior to the credit squeeze.
A small placement of ss. shares was
made with the public at 6s. 3d., lifting
paid-up capital to £lOO,OOO. Prospectus
figures showed an attractive earning rate
during the previous five years and
directors forecast dividends of 10 p.c.
The company began operations in
1950 with a small staff in rented
premises. By 1956 the business had
grown to such an extent that a new
factory was built on land acquired at
St Leonards.
The company made specialised plastic-
coated industrial fabrics and had filled


ACCOUNTS
SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
Current assets
114
129
132
138
159
Less current
liabilities
84
62
68
75
99
Working capital
30
67
64
63
60
Fixed assets
64
90
93
92
95
Intangibles
9
9
9
9
9
103
166
166
164
164
Represented by:
Capital
75
133
133
133
133
Reserves
15
16
17
17
18
Loans
13
17
16
14
13
103
166
166
164
164
Depreciation
3
6
4
6
7
Taxation
11
4
1
3
7
Net profit
15
5
1
4
8
Dividend
8
9
—
3
7
Surplus
7
—
1
1
1
Dividend p.c.
10
—
2J
5
Earnings p.c.
19.6
4.7
1.1
3.0
6.1
Dividend yield (a)
4.2
6.4
—
3.7
5.3
High price (b)
14/-
8/-
5/6
4/-
5/3
Low price (b)
7/-
4/5
2/4
2/3
4/-
(a) End of September.
month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year
Invest in
f3cJ3
INTEREST
UP TO
%
FOR
4
YEARS
Applications for Debentures and Notes only accepted on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from:
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
A.G.C. House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
ASK THE 'WALES' FOR PETAU.S
NDII.N.
orders for Government railways and the
major Australian airlines.
It also made special industrial clothing
fabrics resistant to oils, solvents and fire.
Within three months of listing, the
company made another approach to
funds, issuing shares at
par on a two-for-three basis, payable
2s. 6d. on application and the remainder
as required.
As a result of the credit squeeze and
the drying-up of special orders, profit
failed to meet prospectus estimates.
Despite an interim distribution of 5 p.c.,
the final was cut to 21 p.c. on the higher
capital. Profit for the year was £5372,
equal to only 4.7 p.c. on average capital
employed.
The following year saw a further fall
in profit and no dividend was paid. The
21 p.c. distribution the next year was
barely covered by earnings of £4025,
equal to 3 p.c. on capital.
Last year saw an improvement in
sales, which were up by more than 15
p.c., and profit rose further to £8146,
equal to 6.1 p.c., although still nothing
like the forecasts made in the original
prospectus. Dividend was raised to 5
p.c., paid in an interim 2 p.c. and a
final 3 p.c.
With the general improvement of
business in the current 1964-65 financial
year, turnover in the first three months
was a record for the group. Profit for
the six months to December was £7949,
almost equal to the previous year’s full
figure. Sales for the six months were 63
p.c. ahead of those of the corresponding
period of the previous year. As a mark
of confidence, interim dividend was
raised to 31 p.c., indicating an annual
rate of at least 7 p.c.
In order to keep shareholders more in
touch with company developments,
directors have resorted to quarterly re-
ports. The latest shows continued im-
provement, with forward orders ensur-
ing profitable trading at least for the
first half of the next financial year.
The 1964 accounts showed that the
company relied largely on bank accom-
modation and creditors to finance the
growth in stock, up from £74,972 to
£lOl,OBl, although debtors fell slightly
from £59,572 to £53,774.
Freehold has shown little movement
since flotation, but plant last year was
up from £49,481 to £53,403, represent-
ing the cost of additional machinery.
Although at the time of the cash issue,
in 1960, directors forecast they would
not require the second 2s. 6d. on the
new shares before March, 1961, it was
not until November of last year that
the call was finally made. Even after
this, paid-up capital is only a small
£166,666.
With intangible items in the books at
£9171, net assets backing of each ss.
share is ss. 6d. Probably the real value
of the company is in the specialised
nature of the orders it holds. For this
reason, and for the small size of its
capital, it must be considered as a
possible takeover prospect should profit-
ability show a marked improvement.
The fully-paid shares are currently sell-
ing around 4s. 6d., having risen from
around 4s. early in May. Earlier this
year they were at ss. 3d. At present
levels they have speculative possibilities.
ANDERSON MEAT INDUSTRIES LTD.
Recovery After a Shock
Anderson Meat Industries Ltd,
after seven successful years, shook
investors’ confidence with a thumping
loss in 1959-60, but appears now to have
fully recovered from this shock and is
once again making rapid progress.
Stock Exchange listing was acquired
in 1953 following a placement of 85,000
20s. shares at par. The two main
operating subsidiaries were A. W. An-
derson Pty Ltd and Anderson’s Sausages
Pty Ltd, both of which began operations
in 1918. Paid-up capital on listing was
£510,600.
Principal activities were conducted at
Wallangarra on the Queensland-NSW
border, with smallgoods divisions loca-
ted in Sydney and Newcastle. The
sausage company operated a substantial
meat-works at Byron Bay, leased from
Norco Co-op. 1
In 1959, the company acquired a
meatworks at Roma in Queensland,
which has proved highly successful.
About the same time, the company
acquired a majority interest in Fresh
Foods and Ice (Q.) Pty Ltd which is
distributing its products in Queensland.
However, from 1962 this company
traded unprofitably and a receiver was
appointed in late 1963.
Since flotation, shareholders have par-
ticipated in two cash issues—a one-for-
five at par in 1956, and a one-for-ten,
also one at par earlier this year. The
company also recently issued £150,000
in 6f p.c. redeemable preference shares
to financial institutions, and placed


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION lIMITED
will shortly file and
issue a Prospectus for
DEBENTURE STOCK
(SECOND SERIES)
I
2
FOR 5 YEARS
A.N.Z. or I.A.C.
HOW tO Op ply Applications will be accepted
only on the printed forms attached to the Prospectus. Requests
for a Prospectus, when available, may be made to all Members
of Stock Exchanges, all Branches of the A.N.Z. Bank and I.A.C.
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER & CO.
8869 R
15,000 20s. ordinary shares with the
same g:oups at a premium of ss. a
share.
In each year to 1957, the company
was highly profitable, with the 10 p.c.
dividends covered almost twice by earn-
ings. There was a small setback in
1958, when the 10 p.c. was not covered
but the situation was almost remedied
the following year.
The 1960 year saw the reversal which
shook investors’ confidence. The trouble
stemmed from a variation in the meat
agreement with the UK which permitted
the export of certain lower grade meat
to the US.
From the inception of this clause in
late 1958, Anderson Meat took advant-
age of this new arrangement and ex-
ported considerable amounts to the US.
However, late in 1959, seasonal condi-
tions in southern Queensland were ad-
verse, record slaughtering of stock in
the previous year sent prices up sharply,
and at the same time the US market fell
to below costs and remained so for most
of the year.
As a result, the company showed a
deficit of £186,262 for the 1960 year
almost eliminating reserves built up in
the previous years, and no dividend was
paid. The following year also was not
an easy one, with high cattle prices,
fluctuating prices in the US and unstable
prices in the UK. However, the com-
pany was able to show a very small
profit, although no dividend was paid.
Results each year since have showed
a continued improvement, but the going
has not been easy. Results in 1962
were affected by continuation of the con-
ditions of the previous year, whilst in the
following year the incidence of swine
fever created a shortage of bacon pigs
and affected results of the smallgoods
subsidiary.
Nevertheless, following a record profit
of £141,771 last year (equal to 23.1 p.c.
on capital), up from £95,741 (18.4 p.c.)
directors resumed dividends, after a four-
year break, with a 71 p.c. payout, paid
in an interim 3 p.c. and final 41 p.c.
Despite its earlier setbacks in the
export field, the company last year de-
cided to, enter the market in a larger
way, and directors prepared plans to
bring the company's meatworks up to
the rigid standards required for the
export market.
These extensions were financed by the
cash issue and the preference share issue
to institutions. All work should be
completed in the current year. On
completion, directors propose to revalue
the company’s meatworks, which they
say are considerably understated in the
accounts. At last balance date, fixed
assets stood at £1,223,939.
In order to meet the demand for
export meats, the company earlier this
year made a takeover offer for Ama-
graze Ltd, the Queensland pastoralist
group, which a year earlier had held
merger talks with Huttons Ltd. The
Anderson merger was on a share ex-
change basis, but, after a month’s nego-
tiations, the talks were broken off as
“there are no advantages to be gained
with the proposals under present cir-
cumstances”.
The ss. shares of Anderson Meat have
been weak over the past few months,
influenced partly by the general market
down turn, but also by the drought
conditions which have affected northern
NSW areas, and caused a sharp rise in
the price of meat.
Nevertheless, directors are still very
confident, and reported record earnings
in the first half of the year and lifted
the dividend rate to the 10 p.c. last
paid six years ago. Provided the export
market holds up, and cattle prices go no
higher, the shares could be good buying
around current levels.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
Current assets 1347 1661 1537 1682 2293
Less current liabilities 1601 1943 1861 , 1905 2480
Working capital dr254 dr2B2 dr324 dr223 dr!B7
Fixed assets 1079 1091 1162 1177 1224
Intangibles 4 4 33
825 809 842 957 1070
Represented by:
Capital 613 613 613 613 613
Reserves 61 62 110 205 293
Mortgage 74 69 64 59 164
Outside shareholders 77 65 55 80
825 809 842 957 1070
Depreciation 64 59 58 63 64
Taxation 16 104
Net profit drl 86 1 47 113 142
Dividends 46
Surplus 1 47 113 96
Dividend p.c. 7\
Earnings p.c. 7.7 18.4 23.1
Dividend yield (a) 5.4
High price (b) 32/9 20/- 16/3 23/3 30/-
Low price (b) 15/3 11/6 12/- 13/3 16/9
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.


Australia's own
DAWN LAKE
returns
in a fabulously funny
new series of
"HERE'S
DAWN". ..
She's irrepressible!
She's vivacious! And
she's screamingly
funny. That's why
she's one of the best
saleswomen in Aus-
tralia.
People all over
Australia
are sold on
1
NATIONAL
TELEVISION
NETWORK
THE NATIONAL TELEVISION NETWORK
SALES SYDNEY: Ist Floor, Cricket House, George St. 27-2881
MELBOURNE: 247 Collins St. 63-8336 H
STUDIO 8c TRANSMITTER: Artarmon Rd., Willoughby. 43-0444
TCN 9 SYDNEY—A KEY STATION OF THE NATIONAL TELEVISION NETWORK
TCN


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies' Act of N.S.W.
on Bth March, 1950)
FOR 3 YEARS
CURRENCY
UNSECURED
NOTES
DEBENTURE
STOCK
4, 6 or
10 years
3 years
2 years
BVi% p-a.
8% P.A.
8% P. A.
7 3 /4% P A.
7Vz% p.a.
SHORT TERM RATES
12 months
6 months
3 months
1 month
71/2% P.A.
6/2% P.A.
5/2% P.A.
5% P.A.
7% P.A.
6% PJL
Applications can only be accepted on the
form attached to and referred to in the
prospectus.
HOW TO INVEST
Application forms and prospectus may
be obtained from:
• Any Branch of the BANK OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
• Any Member of the Stock Exchange.
• THE COMPANY’S OFFICES: Cam-
bridge House, 249 George Street,
Sydney. 'Phone 27-8621.
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Canberra, Newcastle.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, a copy
of your Prospectus.
NAME
ADDRESS
909/FC
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Keep an Eye on the Drought
Before dreaming of bull markets
Tsn’t it about time the schoolmasters
at the Stock Exchanges required com-
panies making new issues, particularly
premium issues, to report simultaneously
on current trading?
Last week we had the spectacle of
ICIANZ announcing lower profits on
higher capital only days after its
premium issue had closed. Wouldn’t it
have been fairer if the board had given
some indication of this trend in profits
when mailing entitlements to share-
holders. Instead, we have the board now
saying, in effect, “Sorry, chaps, about
the profits—but thanks for the money
you all' sent along.”
Not, of course, that ICIANZ is a com-
pany whose conduct is likely to be
questioned. But there have been cases
where premium issues have been made
in circumstances which have subsequently
proved to be quite disgraceful. One’s
memory doesn’t have to be long to
remember two such cases. The ss. shares
of these companies are currently selling
at 2s. or 35., less than a year after
premium issues were made.
As to the market itself, things have
been looking brighter and one analyst
has already declared that another bull
market is under way. Come now, doctor,
that sounds really bold to me. I’m afraid
I won’t be sharing your confidence until
our trade balance begins to improve
again. As it is, the rot is only just
beginning to set in and is likely to get
progressively worse, so long as the
drought lasts. It’s all too easy for us
city types to enthuse about the lovely
weather we’ve been having. Too many
more lovely days and we'll all be broke.
Consequently, I’m in no mood yet for
wholesale buying in anticipation of an-
other bull market. Instead I’ve taken a
second look at those prospectuses I was
talking about last week.
The one that seemed to deserve closer
attention was Eglo Engineering (Ser-
vices) Limited. This issue Sir lan was
generous enough to put out at par, even
though earning rate is running at a rate
of 16.5 p.c. and dividends of 10 p.c. are
forecast. That makes the issue price of
ss. look a “steal” alongside some of
Eglo’s recent stablemates. Compare
these figures:
Issue Forecast Current
Price Div. Rate Earn. Rate
Company s. d. p.c. p.c.
Eglo 5 0 10 16.5
Mr Whippy 7 6 10 14.4
George Weston 8 6 7 i 3.1
Vickers (10s) 17 6 8 13.0
How come Eglo was so cheap?
Now I know it is hardly a name like
Weston or Vickers. Its capital is only
£250,000 and its asset backing, as we
saw last week, is only 2s. 6d.—not that
Whippy’s (2s. Bd.) or Weston’s (3s. Bd.)
is much better. But somehow I liked
the sound of Eglo’s specialised business
as a contractor to the petrochemical, oil,
plastics and rubber industries, handling
the design, fabrication, installation and
maintenance of plant. So when I saw
the ss. shares come on the market at
only ss. 6d. I stepped in next day and
bought 1000.
My other purchase this week was also
a newly listed stock —Nuttall. This one
comes from the same stable as Nutt and
Muddle, the popular poker-machine colt.
Nuttall shares, you might remember,
were issued by tender and brought a
placement price of 10s. 6d. They subse-
quently rose on the market to 145., but
for the past week or two have been back
at 10s. 9d. again. Reports from the track
are that Nuttall is coming along nicely
and may earn close to 30 p.c. on capital
this year. Like Eglo, Nuttall is in
engineering—machine tools and packag-
ing machinery. So that neither com-
pany’s products are hardly likely to be
found in the home.
These purchases called for a bit of
selling, so we parted with Cresco and
Loloma. My Establishment friends in
Adelaide warned me that I might have
done the wrong thing buying Cresco, so
I hurriedly backed out of them, blushing.
No loss, luckily. Loloma contribs. I
sold at 15s. for a profit of £5O, thanks
again to tin.
Details of the week’s transactions
were:
BOUGHT
1000 Eglo, 5/7 £292
500 Nuttall, 10/9 £275
SOLD
100 Cresco, 59/- £291
500 Loloma, 15/- £367
This left me holding:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
200 Tableland Tin IS/3/65 33/7t 44/6
1000 Macquarie Worsted 25/3/65 4/11 5/2
500 Ferris 7/4/65 6/- 5/8
400 Stott & Underwood 21/4/65 5/6 5/2
500 Hanimex 3/5/65 15/6 15/9
2000 Steamship
Trading (rights) 25/5/65 2/3 2/2
400 Kathleen Invest. 13/5/65 16/3 17/-
200 Mauri Bros. 20/5/65 16/6 17/3
500 Nutt & Muddle 3/6/65 5/3
1000 Eglo 4/6/65 5/7 6/3
500 Nuttall 8/6/65 10/9 10/9


THE MAN ON THE LAND
Boom for Dried Fruits Sales
Off-season promotion in Britain
With the balance of a record sultana
crop to sell, the Australian dried
fruits industry this year ran a campaign
to shift stocks in its biggest market, the
United Kingdom, out of season. Since
February, Australian dried fruits have
been featured in a drive involving almost
40,000 British stores and some of the
largest retailing organisations in the
country. When it ends this month it will
have succeeded in clearing about 12,000
tons of dried fruits, over a period that
would otherwise have accounted for pro-
bably 8000 tons.
A London official said this week that
the exercise cost, at the most, an ad-
ditional £20,000 on top of the £50,000
now being spent annually on Australian
dried-fruits promotion in Britain. The
value of the 50 p.c. increase in sales
was more than £500,000.
The Australian Dried Fruits Board be-
longs to the London Publicity Committee.
Through it, the Board contributes to a
central promotion fund to which the
Federal Government subscribes an equal
amount. So the taxpayer can take some
glory for financing the industry’s place in
the United Kingdom dried fruits market,
about half of whose needs it satisfies. The
additional effort made this year was inte-
grated with the new overall plan in which
Australia’s Trade Publicity Directorate in
London is linking promotion between all
the commodities Australia sells here.
Peak selling of dried fruits in the UK is
from July to December, business waning
after the Christmas boom and remaining
slack for the first half of the calendar
year except for a reaction to the purchase
of simmel cakes and hot cross buns at
Easter. It is the Australian industry’s
hope to build up the off season so that
activity is more uniform through the
year, and the market more stable. It
reasons that, if consumption is to be
raised, it is in the off season that it must
be done.
In a world where demand for dried
fruits was, until recently, running counter
to the growth of population, even the
kind of success achieved this year is no
excuse for expansion. It would not be
surprising to hear the chairman of the
Dried Fruits Board, Mr Gorman, repeat
the warning he issued last August that
disaster could come to the industry if the
price agreement binding Australia,
Greece and Turkey led to the planting of
new acreages without proof that the extra
tonnage could be sold. Heartening as
they have been, the past months do not
supply that proof.
Certainly, the price of £l4O a ton for
sultanas one of the highest ever and
a rise of £2O a ton on the year before
has not estranged buyers as some people
feared it might. The Australian record
production of 84,000 tons of sultanas and
near-record of 103,000 tons of all dried
fruits did not create a surplus, for it was
offset by the failure of the Iranian crop
and considerable declines in those of
Turkey and Greece. So the market has
yet to meet a situation in which prices
like the present ones are combined with
high production in not one but all or even
most of the main producing countries.
Price Agreement
\ lthough Australia is united with two
in a price-fixing agreement
under the World Dried Vine Producers’
Secretariat, formed three years ago, it is
not entirely happy with their conduct.
Australia has reached a degree of ad-
vancement in marketing where it pro-
motes specific brands nationally and
knows that doing so creates a generic
benefit spilling over to rival brands of the
same commodity, even though these other
brands are not advertised.
The Australian industry is prepared to
accept the lifting of total dried fruits
sales as its objective, yet is disappointed
at the failure of its partners in the price
pact to co-operate by sharing the promo-
tional cost. While they are cashing in on
Australian spending, the Turks and
Greeks are naturally reluctant to acknow-
ledge that brand-advertising steps up total
sales. The modicum of advertising they
do refers simply to sultanas or currants,
and not to specific brands. Both countries
are reported to have been considering
promotion programmes, but their indus-
tries are less organised than Australia’s.
Disturbing, too, to Australian interests
is the failure of Greece to develop an in-
ternal market for its dried fruits. Austra-
lia consumes about 20 p.c. of its produc-
tion at home, the United States some 60
p.c. and Turkey about 12 p.c., but
Greece less than 1000 tons out of an
annual production of 65,000 tons of sul-
tanas and 90,000 tons of currants.
As against their demands on the British
market, however, Turkey and Greece
have lately developed sales to Communist
countries, notably Russia. Britain is still
by far the world’s largest importer of
sultanas, taking some 120,000 tons a year
But Russia is now believed to have
climbed past Germany into second place,
with purchases totalling about 50,000
tons. Australian officials watching this
development at first thought it was an
attempt by the Russians to get on-side
with the Governments of the Mediter-
ranean countries. They now accept it as
a genuine domestic demand reflecting
efforts to improve the Russian diet.
In the traditional dried fruits markets
little sign now remains of the decline that
was worrying the industry a few years
ago. Valuable new outlets are opening up.
In addition to Russia’s emergence, the
Japanese market, largely under American
sales pressure, has grown from 4000 to
30,000 tons in the last eight years. Aus-
tralia has so far done little to add dried
fruits to its trade with Japan, though
there are people as far away as Britain
who are itching to see it begin.
Price has been a sore point in recent
years. Three years ago Turkey engaged
in undercutting that, turned the market
into a shambles. Some people thought
the £stgl4o a ton set by the three
competitors at Munich last year (about
£4O a ton above the level to which the
Turkish lapse had plunged values) was
too high. Results of the past few months
have done much to reassure the Austra-
lian industry that, if quality, promotion
and stability are present, the market will
reward producers adequately.
Australia, Greece and Turkey and
possibly also Iran will meet in Brigh-
ton this month to set the price for the
coming season. It is not expected that
this meeting will do more than confirm
the present £stgl4o a ton.
The Australian industry is pleased with
America’s policy on dried fruits prices.
Although outside the price-fixing mach-
inery that involves the three pact part-
ners the US has kept her rates not only
up to, but somewhat above those of the
signatories. The US is, moreover, only a
token competitor in the British market,
concentrating rather on regions where
more expansion is possible.
The UK market is the world’s most
competitive. Australia’s half-share of it
cannot be taken for granted. As the ex-
perts know, a dominant holder of a
vital market must combine quality and
promotion to keep its stake, for the
thin wedges of the challengers make it
harder to defend a major share of a
market than a minor one.


The Quality of Rural Research
Wool and manufacturers' needs
Vet further evidence that there are
A nagging doubts about the quality of
research in Australia has come to light.
The Australian Merino Wool Campaign
Committee is sending its chairman, Mr
R. B. Rowland Smith, to Britain and
Europe to try to organise a world con-
ference between the textile industry,
scientists and woolgrowers.
In a lengthy bulletin the committee
raises many pertinent questions. Sum-
marised, they are that too much research
is “clouded by uncertainty” and is so
much wasted effort. Tqo much is pure
research with little practical application.
Too little is known, by woolgrowers as
well as the scientists, about the needs of
manufacturers.
It stands to reason that if wool is pro-
duced to sell —whether by free auction
or any other method—the views of the
people who buy it are of paramount
importance. Has this committee a case?
It appears that it has.
It is very difficult not to agree with
the committee’s statement: “Whatever
the manufacturer has indicated in a
general way of his requirements in wool
it is fairly evident that the average
breeder and grower or wool scientist in
Australia is very uncertain of these
requirements. This is apparent from the
difficulty in finding any two breeders,
growers or wool scientists who agree
exactly what kind of wool should be
grown or what kind of wool the manu-
facturer wants.”
Assuming that this is a fair observa-
tion, it may be asked: What are the
Wool Board, the CSIRO, the universities
and the State departments of agriculture
doing? Are they merely going around
in circles providing jobs for each other?
Of course not. It is not that bad.
But clearly there is need for a shake-up.
We come back to the basic problem of
research (in wool or anything else). This
is the lack of communication between
the academic side and the practical side.
Communication, anyway, is a bad
word. So is extension. Or any other
long-winded name for what, essentially,
is plain talking.
There are faults on both sides.
Academics tend to develop an ivory-
tower attitude. Practical farmers tend to
heap scorn on anyone who has not got
dung on his boots. Yet this is by no
means general and there are any number
of progressive farmers and down-to-
earth academic types who get on ex-
tremely well together.
There is one general attitude, though,
on the part of practical farmers, which
is in as much need of a shake-up as.any-
thing to be found in the academic sphere.
This is the attitude that research is
something which the Government pays
for as a matter of course. The Govern-
ment never pays for anything. It is tax-
payers’ money. And 90 p.c. of Aus-
tralians these days have not too much
concern for problems in farming.
One matter which might well be dis-
cussed at top level is this: Can Australia
afford pure research? Might it not be
better to concentrate on applied research
and send selected scientists overseas
where facilities are more readily avail-
able and at cheaper cost? Perhaps.
Perhaps not. It is worth discussion,
though.
The sooner the woolgrowers, and the
scientists, discover what the manu-
facturers want the better, because there
is plenty of evidence around to suggest
that the present investigation into fleece
weights and fibres may be altogether mis-
directed. There is a revolution going on
overseas in manufacturing processes due
to automation and computers. The time
may not be far off, possibly, when fleece
quality will just not matter. The one
machine, or series of machines, will be
able to take in wool of any quality at
one end and turn out woollen textiles
of any given description at the other.
In time it is even possible that wool-
classing itself will be a waste of time
and effort.
The increasing purchases of wool by
the United States, pleasing but not yet
enough to cause anything like jubilation,
are the direct result of the big, new and
automated mills which started coming
into operation last year. The idea that
it is the result of wool promotion in the
US hardly stands up.
The American textile manufacturers
are jubilant all right—about the new pro-
cesses. These, they say, will enable them
to compete with imported Japanese and
European textiles. They have barely
scratched the surface in automation and
computerisation.
The woolgrower must know what is
expected of him and as things stand
now he just does not know.
An interesting experiment being con-
ducted at Melbourne University might
well be applied in the wool industry.
This experiment has nothing to do with
wool. It is a survey on the teaching
ability of university lecturers and tutors.
The body doing it is the Students’ Rep-
resentative Council. They have these
surveys in America and they are designed
to find out how effectively the lecturers
get their ideas across.
In the primary industry sphere the
academics are always conducting sur-
veys on what farmers are doing. Per-
haps it would be a good idea to find
out, in survey form, what the farmers
think of the performance of the
academics.
A Sense of Lethargy?
Woolgrowers’ approach to referendum
VI/Ith the vital reserve price referen-
dum less than three months away
it is probably sobering to take a trip
through a woolgrowing area and talk
to men just as you find them. They
may be sitting on a tractor, or running
sheep through the yards, or doing any
one of a dozen jobs on the property.
Frankly, it is incredible to discover how
many apparently have no clear idea of
what the reserve price issue is all about.
This is not meant in a derogatory way.
These men have plenty to keep them
busy. They are flat out, one way or
another. You come away with the feel-
ing that the reserve price proposal has
been presented to them too thoroughly.
The Wool Board has sent out thousands
of Press releases, the rural papers have
run hundreds of articles and letters, and
the organisations have called dozens of
meetings.
All this will intensify as the time
draws nearer to the referendum. It will
be compulsory and therefore the wool-
growers will have to vote. But it is
axiomatic that if a man is not certain
on what he is voting, then he prefers
the devil he knows to the one he does
not.
There is a quite remarkable and un-
expected angle to this reserve price
referendum. In the past, in 1950, the
brokers’ representatives in the wool
country were actively warning growers
against changing the auction system.
This time there does not appear to be
anything like the same activity on the
part ff the brokers. It is possible (just)
that they would welcome reserve price
selling.
Like the Wool Board, the IWS and
the world textile organisations, they may
really have come to believe that wide
fluctuations in wool prices are a dis-
service to the industry. Then, perhaps,
they may be really against the idea,
interpreting it as a first stage to a com-
pulsory acquisition scheme. If this is
the case, why then are they not showing
their hand?
It does not help to ask them. From


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: RONALD JOSEPH NEWMAN late of En-
field. TAKE NOTICE that BARBARA EVELYN
NEWMAN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 892 of 1965 on the ground of DESERTION.
If you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney on or before the 30th
July, 1965 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from GEOFREY SEE GILLIS
& CO., Solicitors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
the representative in the bush to the man
on the board, the invariable reply is:
“We will leave it to the woolgrower. It
is his business. Our job is to serve the
woolgrower, etc., etc.”
That is all very well, but the brokers’
representative is a kind of father con-
fessor to the woolgrower. The close
bond between broker and grower is real
and it is unique. It does not exist in any
other industry. The broker not only sells
the growers’ wool, he lends him money,
purchases his tractors and his chain saws,
and even buys his tickets for holiday
trips.
If the broker will not advise him on
how to vote, who is the grower to turn
to?
The Wool Board? The grower knows
that the board already supports the
reserve price proposal. He also knows
that it has taken a lot of money from
him for promotion and that his prices
seem to go down as his levies go up.
The “big grower” organisation: the
Graziers’ Association? The grower who
cannot make up his mind knows that
the Graziers’ Association tune is called
by “squatters” who often have interests
in things besides farming. He wonders
how they can really be on his side.
.The “small grower” organisations:
the United Farmers, Victorian Wheat
and Woolgrowers, APPU, and so on?
Many of their most vocal members on
the reserve price issue are “professional
meeting attenders”. They are fellows
with an eye to. politics.
Economists and sundry observers who
write for magazines and that sort of
thing? What would they know, anyway?
The Government? You can’t trust it.
Besides, it does not even seem to know
that there is a drought on.
These views are not those of this
writer. They are a summarised version
of many remarks made by men actually
working on their properties. They are
not “tap room” opinions, because these
blokes don’t go to the pub that often.
How typical they are is anyone’s guess.
There is a feeling, however, despite
all the speeches of Sir William Gunn,
all the TV interviews and radio broad-
casts, and the articles and the letters to
editors, that there are a great many
growers who are uncertain and who are
waiting on the word of the man who is
their contact with the outside world
the broker’s agent. And he isn’t telling
them how to vote this time. When you
get beyond the metropolises, Australia
is a wide, lonely country.
One or two comments were highly
amusing in this recent, and by no means
comprehensive, one-man survey. A few
choice examples:
“They should have bunged it through
like promotion. It's no good asking
growers. If you do they will vote just
the opposite.”
“I. thought the ‘Philip’ committee
decided against this reserve price idea.”
(A reference to the Philp committee.)
“I’ll stick with the strength.”
“I don’t care how they sell it as long
as I get my cheque.”
“What’s it matter how it’s sold. The
poor old cocky comes off second-best
every time.”
“If you ask me, the Income Tax De-
partment is behind the whole thing.”
“I’ll have to ask the old man” (from
a grower at least 40).
Naturally there were also growers who
showed a keen interest in the issue and
indicated that they had a good grasp
indeed of the implications.
The survey could not be termed com-
prehensive because the area was limited
and most men interviewed were, in fact,
fairly small to medium woolgrowers. It
is not an attempt to suggest that the
majority of growers, or anything ap-
proaching a majority, is lethargic on
this reserve price thing. Yet more
growers are lethargic perhaps than
should be.
Consider the almost incredible result
of a questionnaire sent to 4500 members
of the APPU in NSW. According to one
Sydney report, only 170-odd growers
bothered to reply to it. It has to be
wrong. A misprint, perhaps. But even if
1700 bothered to reply, it is still in-
credible.
Those that did reply indicated that
they would prefer to see a change in the
present system. But 170 out of 4500
sounds awfully like the number that
goes to meetings and takes an active
interest in organisation affairs—in other
words, the enthusiasts.
If woolgrowers do not jolt themselves
out of this lethargy, then they have only
themselves to blame if they are accused
of having too close an affinity with the
four-legged animals they depasture.
Not So Bad in Malaysia
Dairy Board replies to criticism
IThiE Australian Dairy Produce Board
A has been quick to reply to charges
that it has run into troubles in its Asian
milk ventures. The answers are forth-
right and the board is to be commended
for the way it has handled the whoie
thing. One or two other primary com-
modity boards could take a leaf from
the Dairy Board's book.
Troubles there are. But all things con-
sidered, the board looks to have a good
chance of coming through. The board
chairman, Mr Eric Roberts, has said that
the two ventures in Singapore are pro-
gressing satisfactorily.
Malaysia Dairy Industries Ltd operates
with Dairy Board capital backing and
has local participation. It is now pro-
ducing 9500 cases of condensed milk
a week and has a potential of a million
cases a year. Singapore Cold Storage
Pty Ltd is producing 1200 gallons of
milk daily.
Thai Dairy Industry Co. Ltd, in Bang-
kok, is producing 7500 cases of con-
densed milk a week and has a target of
a million a year.
The main difficulties with these plants
relate to the technicalities of seaming
and sterilising cans. It is pointed out
that similar factories in Australia have
pretty much the same problems. They
are not insurmountable.
When the engineers solve them, there
appears no great obstacle to these three
plants doubling their existing output. In
each case the money for these plants
comes from local sources and from the
Dairy Industry Stabilisation Fund. The
fund amounted to £4 million a couple of
years ago. About £2 million was paid
out to growers in Australia and the
remaining £2 million was set aside for
the Asian projects. So far, a total of
£l 2 million has been spent.
The fourth project, the one in Manila,
is different from the two in Singapore
and the one in Bangkok. Apparently
the Manila project, as it now stands, is
controlled by a Philippines company.
The board has been putting money into
the project but now feels that, to make
it work properly, it should put in more,
and gain a 75 p.c. control. It has to be
accepted that, should the present com-
pany be liquidated, that other local con-
cerns and possibly American firms will
compete with the Australian board in a
takeover bid.
As the total amount of money involved
in the Asian projects, according to the
Dairy Board, is no more than £2 million,
it can hardly be said that the board is
squandering money. Woolgrowers • are
spending three times that every year on
promotion, which has yet to prove worth-
. while.


the pattern if life today
news
personalities
looks
politics
finance
arts
world events
SUBSCRIPTIONS
26 weeks £2/12/- Aust.
£2/2/- Stg and N.Z.
52 weeks £4/4/- Aust.
£3/7/- Stg. and N.Z.
Send dollar equivalent
to New York office.
Air Mail New Guinea
£7/5/- 12 months. £4/2/6
6 months.
Malaysian air - freighted
edition: 26 dollars 26
issues, 52 dollars, 52
issues.
NAME.
ADDRESS.
Please tick y/ whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription?
A renewal subscription?
□
□
The Bulletin
Australia's
leading journal
of fact
and
opinion
Post this coupon to THE BULLETIN, Box 4088, G.P.0., Syd-
ney; OR Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.), Ltd; P.O. Box 1595 Wel-
linton C. 1., N.Z., OR Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London; OR Australian Consolidated Press
T-td., 229 West 43rd Street, New York N.Y., OR Wool-
worths (Malaysia) Ltd., 10 Collyer Quay, Singapore.
New Zealand readers may receive the Air Freighted edition
at £2/12/- New Zealand for 26 issues, £4/4/- New Zealand
for 52 issues.
well informed people
read
The Bulletin
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 852
ACROSS
I—They involve dipping into those which here contain
tea. (9)
s—lmpose on us, this being good for the soil. (5)
B—Negative backing given to the ship’s stem and
America excluding Dixie. (10)
10—Sketch some backward protegee. (4)
12—Came to view the deep understanding of Sussex?
(4, 2,5)
14—Headache which makes the first person forbidding.
15—They’re not to be called
chicken eggs from which male
fish emerge. (6)
17—Peruvian gives heart to this
container. (3-3)
19—Money is most of the trouble.
(6)
22—East German dawn hotly
denounces bone cells. (11)
24 Top kiss given to an imitator.
(4)
25 Fancy not pleasing this ob-
jection as the Polynesian.
(5, 5)
26 The box-office overhead is
shady and bushy. (5)
27 Murmuring South America
city of the Chaldees to orate
noisily. (9)
DOWN
1— Crazy pavement? (10)
2 Hedge in paying attention. (7)
3 Ethiop giving direction to Sir
Harry Lauder’s girl. (8)
4 Gene being upset in South
Australia, a purge is pre-
scribed. (6)
6 Do I trample sibilants under-
foot, ladies? (13)
7 Stitched in the news. (4)
9—But they’re not expected to be
true blue in Labor Govern-
ments. (4, 9)
11—You are canonised; what an
eyesore! (4)
13—Animals and men in the
street having news from the
tax office. (10)
16—Sport upset in America sug-
gested by Ophelia’s father. (8)
18—Berserk report by me on my
well-being. (4)
20— Equipment of a bricklayer
providing lobster. (7)
21— Shipborne story loses its
freshness. (6)
23—Arab horse which takes it
one for dope. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 851


/
1
J*
lilll
1111
Ml
!
‘ : -V,
H? •’* 'l ■ i
A mood of affection
for the private world of home
with the music of ice playing harmony
to the poetry of a fine Scotch
(DGxllum's
the whisky—Perfection
(T^CaUjurn's
Scots (JLlhisky
- J».£/ blended « 5 0/TllM
iOTTU D »NUfc* OOMMOMWHUTH•J**’' IO *
a product of Scotland ... of her soil, her rivers, her very atmosphere.
MC65.108C


■% • s
■
3*
¥
m
%\
4
Sf*lLi
'
■
>**
T>
9
f A
Xj
<
. J'V
<
*
4
m
'sgm.
*»
%
»
v v
it
J^*.
%*
s*
#
V
3
sf '«►
c
y
#t
i
-•--
Op
3
1965
<
s*-
X
£\
■as* 3
HH
!■«
2. V. IP.
Wliif
PRICE —£1280 MANUAL —£1395 AUTOMATIC.
t?he magnificent ‘BCDC tOolseleg (Dark II
■he most distinctive six cylinder in motoring gets a streamlined rear end, power
rakes and the most luxurious furnishings within hundreds of pounds of its price.
