

The Bulletin
INCOSWSRAtING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
THE CHIEFS
OF STAFF
RUNNING THE WAR MACHINE
.Mr- u
LT-GEN. SIR JOHN WILTON
VICE-ADMIRAL A. W. R. McNICOLL
AIR CHIEF MARSHAL SIR FREDERICK SCHERGER
AIR MARSHAL A. M. MURDOCH


*SK
j * 4.
1
V
V
i
mm
Wm?-
‘ '' /•'■^t- > " v ~ r
0 0-*‘
''mmmm
BHflgpppppHßg
Blil


m/jmm
COONAWARRA ESTATE
HERMITAGE
PRIDE
M *
N<'
COONAWARRA ESTATE
RIESLING
OF PLACE
coonawarra estate
CABERNET
The fine wines of the world have always been associated with specific places
and no wines are more specific about, or prouder of, their origin than
COONAWARRA ESTATE. Coonawarra is located (refer to the map on the back
label) in the south-east corner of South Australia, remote from other wine-
growing areas hence its exclusive character and strong touch of personality.
You will find Coonawarra estate worthy the pride of place on your table.
Htimi/ia
h
% | <£
IS .$8
The select wines of Coonawarra
are labelled Coonawarra estate.
There are two Coonawarra
estate Clarets. -
HERMITAGE 1962 Vintage
cabernet 1959 Vintage
COONAWARRA ESTATE RIESLING
1965 Vintage
A new Riesling wine-lovers will
welcome.
AN S. WYNN & CO. ESTATE
C 4 8
The Bulletin
Established 1880
DECEMBER 18, 1965.
VOL. 87, No. 4477
'THE CHIEFS OF STAFF
Running the war machine 17
the conchies
No action more lonely 21
DOUBLE STANDARDS
The threat of Archbishop Gough? .. 22
BRETT WHITELEY
Art’s Shirley Temple? 40
REFORMATION
ROMAN STYLE
After the Council 42
TANNER .... 13 LETTERS .... 44
BATMAN 26
THIS AUSTRALIA
Canberra’s phoney crisis 10
Wool's timely reprieve 11
Motor murder 12
Scientology steamroller 12
OVERSEAS
France: De Gaulle 35
Vietnam: The war 38
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
Country theatres and conspicuous
spending 48
FILMS: Charles Higham on the
“Mob" 49
ART: Sculpture in Melbourne 50
MUSIC: The Messiah 50
BOOKS: The Slaking of a Quag-
mire, Richard Haberstam 52
Fire Under the Ashes,
James McNeish 55
p*
BUSINESS & FINANCE
A true reflection of woolgrowers .... 56
Bonanza for lawyers 57
Two Barrier companies 72
MAN ON THE LAND
Agriculture and official policy 61
Editorial Office: Park House, 54-58 Park
street, Sydney. Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4083, Phone; 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


_ .
'• ■
: V
v W*
mm
2^
How long since you looked at your
Insurance Policies?
What about those insurance policies?
Are they arranged to the best possible
advantage? Do they cover every impor-
tant need? When, and under what cir-
cumstances, will they be paid? Above
all, are they suitable as to size and type
to do the job you want them to do?
It is not hard to find the answer to
these and other related questions. Ask
lor an A.M.P. FAMILY SECURITY
CHECK-UP.
0
FOUR POINT ISSrS
FAMILY SECURITY
'iour A.M.P. man knows, from training and
experience, how to help you—
Check the facts related to your present family and
financial position.
Check the extent of your needs what would be
required if your family had to live without you
what you will require on retirement or to take
advantage of long service leave.
Check to find if the provisions you have made are
adequate.
If they are not, your A.M.P. man will show you a
family security plan tailor-made to your precise
needs and circumstances.
o
0
0
O
An A.M.P. Family Security Check-Up costs you nothing but a
little of your time—-involves you in no obligation except to those
you love. All you have to do is to call in your A.M.P. man or
call the nearest A.M.P. Office.
Trained and reputable
field men working
Everywhere with Aus-
tralia’s largest Life
Office make top-flight,
all-lines insurance ser-
vice a practical reality
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE
Offices in cities and towns throughout Australia and New Zealand
and in the United Kingdom.
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by assets exceeding £700,000,000 which the
Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.
K2OIB


CAREER PIPE
(HUME-S-LON)
Watch this pipe . . . it's going places.
The rocket-like career of Hume-S-Lon PVC pipe has
toppled old-established domains of other pipe materials
right, left and centre.
Because Hume-S-Lon doesn’t rust or corrode (it’s made
of unplasticised PVC) ... is light (one man can carry
200 ft. of 2" pipes) ... is easy to lay (20 ft. lengths of
Hume-S-Lon are taper-socket jointed with solvent cement
above ground, lowered into a ditch or laid by mole-plough).
Hume-S-Lon retains its mirror finish ... is non-toxic . . .
not attacked by termites . . . self-extinguishing . . . comes
in diameters from *•" to 16", standard 20 ft. fengths, pro-
duced to close tolerances, connects to other pipe systems.
MOST IMPORTANT Hume-S-Lon FITTINGS are of the
same indestructable material unplasticised PVC (elimi-
nating the weakness of other plastic pipe systems).
HUME-S-LON is the ideal pipe for water supply pressure
lines • Natural Gas Lines • Irrigation Piping • Chemical
Plant Piping • Ventilation or Drain Piping • Sewer
linings • Salt Water Piping and many other uses.
Bring yourself up-to-date on this modern multi-purpose
pipe. Ring or write for literature.
u-
-200 ft. of 2" HUME-S-LON
pipes carried by one man.
Taper-socket jointing with
solvent cement.
Nothing can rust or corrode
—pipes and fittings are PVC.
im
:
iHH
m
MARKETED BY
HUMES LIMITED
Head Office: 185 William St.. Melbourne, C.l, Victoria, Australia. Phone 600221
STATE OFFICES:
N.S.W.: Park Road, Regents Park. Phone 6442351
VIC.: 12th Floor, 205 Wittiam St., Melb. Phone 690221
QLQ.; 189 Montague Rbad, South Brisbane. Phone 4 5881
S.A.: 78 Wes! Beach Road, Keswick. Phone 971011
W.A.: Salvado Road, Subiaco. Phone 872311
TAB.: 76 Liverpool Street, Hobart. Phone 32741
THERE IS A HUMES OFFICE IN YOUR CAPITAL CITY.
HSLB4OX


Ww-
- *
mm
Tt
Was
wsmm
1111
A
Pi
**
S»
P?<s, .y JW ,y.->-' '■'
f ■■■: ■:; •
'» V * ' - :: '' i'' ' - WE
am&WW
nfb.
Pi
m£?*s sypii
H
n
V
4!1 ¥ .. f ill v w££mWsv%M mm 1
Spiir i*iwilif^4ri
" ' V ' : :■ ■ v ■ ■■ f ■■■■ :. ' ••• f ",
ONE-MAN
HARVEST
This. all-purpose harvester helps one man do the
work of a dozen. At critical points Timken tapered
roller bearings carry the load. They nearly eliminate
friction. They keep this complex machine and millions
of other farm machines around the world running
smoothly.
The ability to take big loads in a small space makes
tapered roller bearings a wise choice. Timken tapered
bearings have carried loads in automotive, agricul-
tural and industrial applications for 66 years. Aus-
tralian Timken Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 240, Ballarat,
Victoria. Subsidiary of The Timken Roller Bearing
Company. Timken bearings available in 116countries.
Manufactured in Australia, Brazil, Canada, England,
France, South Africa and U.S.A.
TIMKEN
TAPERED ROLLER
BEARINGS


•••••. <■:
mm
WM,
m
p-
.
:
HI />' ' , 45*.
"'1 *** *
■>>
: i •*
r.
: ■••
T '7Vm*Afi' * v ■
r ■"■
;
ga
iwß
-n
> •
H
m
9
f<V ; ‘..
r
:•:•;•■•
: >;:; • •
m
■a-
:
MJ- V
M
*%&£& ■ s*
- v» *y ■#
And a car for ail reasons, too. Not ours
alone, but those of automotive authori-
ties the world over. The following report
is an extract from ‘Road Test’, a maga-
zine that accepts no automobile adver-
tising, the better to remain unbiased.
The editors are biased, of course, in that
they can't abide a shoddy automobile.
We quote: “There are very few cars
which are directly competitive with the
Rover 2000 or even try to be. It could
best be described as a GT car, designed
to carry four passengers in supreme
comfort at high speeds over all kinds of
roads, with considerable economy. It
is, of course, useful for general family
puttering, but this would seem to be a
waste of a good thing. It could also be
described as a sports car, inasmuch as
it will handle corners and curves with
an agility completely unexpected in a
sedan. Most of all, it is a quality car,
built to exacting tolerances by crafts-
men with a proud heritage. We regret
that we can’t say as much about some
of its British cousins which cost more
money . . “What makes the 2000 dif-
ALL
SEASONS
ferent to start with is its unique unit con-
struction which combines light weight
wih immense strength. Equally up-to-
date is the braking system. Dunlop disc
brakes are used on all four wheels. A
warning light is connected to the master
cylinder of the hydraulic system to warn
of low brake fluid. This is a safety feature
which could well be required by law on
all cars. Of particular interest is the fact
that the complete car was designed
around radial cord tyres which offer vast-
ly improved road holding and up to three
times the tread life of conventional
American tyres. Medical advice was
sought and used in the bucket seat de-
sign, and never before have there been
automobile seats which give such pro-
per support in the small of the back.
Even the ventilation system is different;
for a purpose. Two outlets direct cold air
to the face to help prevent drowsiness,
even when the heater is used.” The edi-
tors of ‘Road Test’ rate the Rover 2000
as a ‘‘best buy”. So, we respectfully sub-
mit, will you.
ROVER AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. A mow


' S
For easy
manoeuvrability
of any 10ad...
choose from the
TOYOTA
range of
Fork Lift Trucks.
Thiess (Sales) Pty. Ltd. have
now brought the complete range of
Toyota Fork Lift Trucks to Australia.
Like the famous Toyota trucks the
Fork Lift range is based on sound
engineering principles that guarantee
you efficient and reliable service
at all times. The range includes Fork
Lifts from 2,200 lbs. capacity
through to the massive 8,000 lbs.
capacity unit. All models available
with friction quick-change clutch
ortorque convertor. Sturdy heavy-duty
steel construction frame and engines
matched carefully to each vehicle’s
capacity ensure big economy with
maximum effective use of the high
torques. No matterwhatyourmaterial
handling need, TOYOTA Fork Lift
Trucks will do it more efficiently
at the lowest possible cost.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN IMPORTERS AND DISTRIBUTORS
THIESS (SALES) PTY. LTD. Hayes Road, Rosebery, N.S.W. 67.3621
TOYOTA FORK
LIFT TRUCKS
THE TOUGHEST FORK LIFT TRUCKS IN THE BUSINESS
DISTRIBUTORS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA
N.S.W.
QLD.
VIC.
BOTANY FORK & CRANE HIRE PTY. LTD.
38 Raymond Ave., Matraville. 666.8529
THIESS (SALES) PTY. LTD.
Kerry Road, Archerfield, Brisbane. 47.3977
Ingham Road, Garbutt, Townsville. 93.270
EMPTOR PTY. LTD.
212 Springvale Road, Springvale. 546.8661
W. AUST.
N.T.
S.A. &
TAS.
PRESTIGE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
65A Adelaide Terrace, Perth. 21.6051
THIESS (SALES) PTY. LTD.
18 Smith Street, West Darwin. 2023
All enquiries to:
THIESS (SALES) PTY. LTD.
Hayes Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
TFL.2.IO4NAT


ONE MORE
WEEK
haTifications
7 ROM the smooth hand of the public
elations officer came the following, re-
iroduced in its entirety:
“The board of Rothmans of Pall Mall
has announced the appointment of a
new director, Mr R. M. H. Denton, to
replace Dr J. H. Moolman who retired
from the board recently. He is 37 years
of age and has three children. He plays
squash, tennis and golf. His appointment
is effective as from the Company’s
November board meeting.”
| We are sure that Mr Denton is a
charming chap, and that his qualifications
to become a director of a large public
company are impeccable. However, with
things the way they are in some seg-
ments of the business world at the mo-
ment, we feel the handout might have
(lieen a bit more forthcoming about
these qualifications. Even his golf handi-
cap would have been something.
Commemoration
EVER heard of Sir Laurence Bragg?
Fifty years ago before Harry Mes-
sel was thought of and when Bragg was
|25 he was awarded the Nobel Prize
vor Physics with his father. Sir William
ilragg. Sir Laurence was born in Ade-
aide when his father was Professor of
Mathematics and Physics at the Univer-
sity there and was educated at St Peter’s
tnd Adelaide University. He has lived
most of his life in Britain.
Sweden, which honored Sir Laurence
50 years ago, recently had a ceremony to
mark his unique distinction. The BBC
telecast the ceremony. The ABC re-plays
the British telecast this week. But, other-
wise, how has Australia commemorated
this distinction? Oh, let’s wait another
50 years and do something then.
Christmas Spirit
ON the seventh floor of David Jones, far
above the slick merchandising of the
Store of the Christmas Spirit, is the most
peaceful, pleasant and appropriate
Christmas shopping you could think of.
These are religious wood carvings from
the Philippines, gathered up lovingly
and astutely they are a quarter the
price of similar European pieces by
■art-gallery director Robert Haines.
J Buying is brisk but by infatuated mem-
bers of the general public rather than
by collectors. There is no interest from
churches or religious orders. “I am
afraid that Pelligrini’s and E. J. Dwyer’s
got in a long way ahead of us,” said a
gallery attendant sadly.
Meal Tickets
A FEW years ago it was squash and
tennis vouchers. You bought a booklet,
each voucher of which could be exchang-
ed at listed squash and tennis courts for
free games. It seemed a good promo-
tion idea for firms taking part. The
promoter of the scheme had to pay only
for advertising, office expenses and to
have the booklets printed. But that was
the catch. Firms taking part could never
be sure how many booklets were printed
and, hence, how many vouchers they
would be called on to honor. The enter-
prises were short-lived and their pro-
moters seemed to vanish into thin air.
A variant has cropped up in Sydney
with restaurants as the target. One of
these, Dine-Out-Sydney, has advertised a
four-guinea booklet which represents 16
meals during a” set period. You take one
person to the restaurant and you get one
meal (the cheaper one, naturally) in ex-
change for a voucher.
However, efforts are now being made
to persuade voucher-holders not to use
their meal-tickets during the holiday
period. When we phoned Dine-Out-Syd-
ney the switchboard said that if mem-
bers tried to use their tickets over
Christmas they would be “embarrassed”
by the fuss restaurateurs caused, as
tickets were “invalid” during this month.
To compensate for the month’s “suspen-
sion” the organisation offered to extend
the currency of the vouchers from Octo-
ber 31 to November 30, 1966, a time
when restaurants may need the business
a little more than they do now.
"I have this strange power, Your
Honor. I know not whence it come
and it humbles me that I possess it .
But in my presence the dumb speak
and the illiterate write."
Changing Times
FOUR-LETTER words on the BBC are
all very well in their way, but for a
real shock to the back teeth we would
take a slashing nude photograph in the
London “Times Literary Supplement”
any day. The “Times” has just slipped one
in to illustrate a review of several of those
books of high-class pornography which
only Englishmen and Australian Customs
officials manage to take seriously. “Is
our view of the erotic distorted?” the
“Times” asks a little anxiously in the cap-
tion. We think not. We think not. j
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
For myself I grow daily more convinced
with a kind of inward delight amounting
at times to ecstasy, that the voyage of
life is an episode of derisive insignificance.
Malcolm Muggeridge.
I do not suffer sinners gladly.
—N. T. W. Allan,
NSW Commissioner of Police.
One thing we are sure of: while
politicians are not in very high o dor,
there is one institution that ranks very
much below us the Press.
—R. Askin, Premier of NSW.
A second wife is not only a distinct
luxury, it is great pleasure and you might
as well pay for it.
Malaysian Finance Minister
Tan Siew Sin.
There is more than one precedent in
outflanking English class and professional
prejudices by bringing in an Australian.
"The Economist", London.
Now let's catch these rats.
President Sukarno.
There are those who still cling to the
belief that there is some magic in Marxism.
C. Wyndham, ALP Federal Secretary.
A plague on any government so
obdurate not to listen to doubt.
—G. Nicol in Victorian
Legislative Council.
The Senate is satisfied that the Knopf el-
macher decision was not dictated by
political considerations.
Professor W. M. O'Neil,
University of Sydney.


THIS AUSTRALIA
POLITICS
The Phoney Crisis
There certainly was a fine ring to it such as has often been heard in recent times
in Canberra. Said Liberal Senator R. C. Wright in his unmistakable drawl: “My whole
public fife is staked on the viewpoint that legislation like this will not get a vote from
me under any circumstances.” Then off he went across the Senate Chamber to the
other side and added his crucial vote to the Opposition.
By 25 to 24 votes the Senate rejected
a Bill authorising a 2i per cent rise in
income tax. Panic stations. The Govern-
ment faced a crisis and met in emergency
Cabinet sessions to discuss the matter.
Alan Reid saw the crisis as something
less than an attempt to overthrow the
Menzies Government. From Canberra
he writes:
The Commonwealth Parliament is
Australia’s real national theatre. No
theatre can be expected to play Hamlet
indefinitely. There has to be a bit of
vaudeville. But the Senate last week
staged comical capers under the billing
of high drama.
Star of the show was Senator Reginald
Wright, Liberal, a Tasmanian lawyer with
a sonorous voice, heavy eyebrows, and a
Hair for old-style dramatics. Wright
joined with the ALP and the two DLP
senators Gair (Qld) and McManus
(Vic.) —in the Senate to reject the Income
Tax Bill because the legislation “em-
bedded principles which are totally un-
acceptable to me and destructive of any
principle that I can support in public
life or elsewhere”.
The Government took Wright
seriously. I suppose it had to. This was
a direct challenge to the authority of the
House of Representatives and to the
Government which is formed from the
majority party or parties in the House
of Representatives to control the financial
affairs and national Budget. Prime
Minister Menzies called an emergency
meeting of all Ministers at which the
prospect of the Government being forced
to an election to uphold the authority of
the House of Representatives in financial
matters was discussed. The legal position
of the Government to continue to collect
taxation without validating legislation
was hastily examined.
The situation had all the external ear-
marks of a major constitutional crisis.
But as has become almost normal in any
crisis in which Wright is involved it was
a phoney crisis. From a great con-
stitutional issue it degenerated into a
wrangle on procedure.
Although Senator Wright was not pre-
pared to vote for legislation which em-
bedded principles totally unacceptable to
him, he was just as equally unprepared to
oppose the financial provisions associated
with a budget which embedded precisely
the same principles. Even after Senator
Wright had made his fiery declaration of
principle, Labor again gave him his
chance. The Government reintroduced
the legislation in two sections. One
section dealt with the 2i per cent tax
increase to which Labor objected. The
other section dealt with the superannua-
tion issues to which Senator Wright
objected.
On exactly the same ground that he
had combined with Opposition senators
to throw out the whole of the Income
Tax Bill—that is that it was only by con-
tributing to the defeat of the whole that
he could secure the defeat of the part
which contained principles totally un-
acceptable to him—he could have justi-
fied voting for rejection of the legislation
validating the 2h per cent. If he had
voted with the Opposition for rejection,
the Government’s Budget proposals
would have been wrecked. The proposal
embedded in the Budget on which his
views were so intense would have gone
into the melting-pot along with all other
budgetary proposals and the issue would
have had to go to the people for testing.
Instead, Senator Wright voted with tie
Government and the 2i per cent increase
went through. Then when the legislation)
to which he objected to so violently was!
introduced, he was left solitary on thq
Opposition side of the chamber, supJ
ported by only the two DLP senators. |
I learned a lesson from the incident,!
I had vowed mentally before that I would)
not accept as serious any constitutional!
crisis that revolved around the per-
sonality of Senator Wright until there]
was contrary evidence. I renewed mji
vows. j
But on the Party level the Governmenl
is viewing the matter with some serious-'
ness. Works Minister Senator Gorton i;
making no secret of his attitude. He n<
longer views Wright as a Governmen;
supporter but as an independent whc
will follow his own line at the cost oi
Party solidarity and internal harmony
Other important Ministers are taking the
attitude: “Wright cannot expect to enjoy
the benefit of Party endorsement simul-
taneously with the privilege of behaving
as an independent.”
The Government Parties undoubtedly
finished this session with their association
much less closely knit than it was even
twelve months ago. There have been a
number of factors contributing to this,l
not the least being the uncertainty about
the future intentions of Sir Robert Men-
zies regarding his resignation. Uncertain
over this, both Ministers and private
members are jockeying for personal ad-
vantage in the hope that they will share
in the political spoils involved in a major
reshuffle within the Liberal parliamen-
tary setup.
Additionally, feelings between the
Liberals and the Country Party have
been exacerbated. Although Mr D. An-j
thony as acting-Primary Industry Minis-
"Hold it a minute, Rembrandt!"


ter, with a wisdom far in excess of his
years, carefully adhered to the line laid
,'jown by Country Party Leader, Mr J.
jjlcEwen, and pursued a neutral line on
jthe wool referendum, other Country
Tarty members committed themselves
(passionately to the “Yes” case. And a
Umber of backbench Liberals commit-
lied themselves publicly to the successful
/No” case. These disagreements spilled
Ever until “Yes” Liberals were also end-
ing semi-publicly with the “No” Liberals.
| On top of this there was bad feeling
wer the Restrictive Trade Practices Bill
idiich backbenchers knew was regarded
vith lack of enthusiasm by probably the
nulk of senior Ministers. One group of
backbenchers led by Mr J. Killen and
yir W. Wentworth fought the legislation
>o doggedly that it produced a reaction.
Overall discipline has slackened among
the Liberals. But in the House of Rep-
resentatives it has not presented a prob-
lem as yet. It can be contained within
the Liberal Party philosophy that in-
dividual forays on matters of conscience
;an be tolerated provided general loyalty
is given to the Party and that this loyalty
s forthcoming in moments of crisis.
Dut in the Senate it is a different situa-
y tion. Due to the proportional rep-
resentation system of Senate voting, the
Senate majority for any government will
Ways be slender. At present the Gov-
lemment cannot muster a majority. This
[situation makes a single defection within
I the Senate a major matter and gives
(Senator Wright his singular power. This
‘power is due to his location in the Senate
rather than his influence within the
} arty.
Yet while it has emerged with only
1 ninor bruises from the parliamentary
iession just ended it was not a good
session for the Government. The Gov-
ernment’s main consolation is that Labor,
if anything, has had a worse session.
Labor has resolved none of its basic
problems such as those pointed up by
Mr Stewart when he wanted the ALP
Executive to implement fully Labor’s
[formal policy banning unity tickets with
'Communists in trade union ballots and
'collaboration with Communists.
Additionally, the State Aid issue ton-
gues to plague the Party with probably
t majority of the Federal Parliamentary
Labor Party Caucus wanting something
lone about it so that Labor will not con-
inue to erode electorally. On the other
•and a majority on the ALP Federal
Executive is still opposed to State Aid.
Both Government leaders and the
Opposition Leader, Mr Calwell, were
probably glad to reach the temporary
haven of Parliamentary recess. But the
leaders of both sides have plenty to pon-
ler about, and to recognise as weak-
•esses, before the Parliament next
issembles in March.
Wool’s Timely Reprieve
By J. C. HORSFALL
If fighters against the tightening grip of bureaucracy on industrial freedom were
dealt a reeling blow by the passage of the Trade Practices Bill with its obnoxious regis-
tration procedure, there was some compensation in the decision of the wool industry
to reject the reserve price scheme.
One of the most disturbing aspects of
Sir William Gunn’s still-born scheme has,
in my view, been its prediction of future
bureaucratic control of an industry which
(wool promotion apart) has met all
challenges to its performance over the
years without feather-bedding or Govern-
ment interference. Once we let bureau-
crats determine its destiny and its essential
character and shape, its inspirations and,
probably, its earning power as our main
export industry would be impaired.
Taxpayers will be relieved by the
knowledge that, excepting the Govern-
ment’s contribution to wool promotion,
they will not have to help finance any
of the new excursions for the wool in-
dustry. With the present awful example
of wheat stabilisation in their sights they
will probably be all the more appreciative
of the reprieve. By the same token, as
the trading banks had committed them-
selves to find up to £5O million to help
finance the v operations of the authority,
their borrowing clients can
also take some comfort. The
demands of the scheme on
the lendable funds of the
banks could well have reach-
ed proportions where some
curtailment of other lending
would have been necessary.
It was always likely that
woolgrowers would accept
the argument that the ad-
ditional levies entailed by the
scheme on their wool cheques
would not be adequately
compensated by hypothetical
SIR WILLIAM GUNN
higher prices postulated by the inter-
vention of a reserve price authority at
the auctions. It was a question of the
levies being very much on the slate
(along with those for promotion) where-
as the prospective increases in gross re-
turns were very much in the bush.
Sir William Gunn was just a little too
glib in his assurances that the authority
would work wonders on prices at the
auctions, while other exponents of the
same idea, like Mr L. A. Simpson, re-
lied far too heavily on picking isolated
examples from the price-lifting efforts
of reserve price authorities in South
Africa and New Zealand out of the
hat.
The decision of the woolgrowers
means that, for the time being, the matter
of getting more stable prices for wool
is back in limbo. The Wool Industry con-
ference will have to give some new and
serious thought tct this problem. The in-
dustry’s overseas customers have been
speaking with several voices on this sub -
ject, although most of them, including
the international Wool Textile Organ-
isation and the Japanese wool, textile in-
dustry, came out against the scheme. But
the International Wool Secretariat strong-
ly supported it as a sine qua non in its
battle against synthetics. Whatever the
interplay of personalities involved, this,
battle must be won.
This vital issue aside, it remains for
the industry to put its own house in
order and maximise its net
returns in its own and the
country’s interests. It will
now be able to do this with-
out the Government breath-
ing down its neck and with-
out being led in the direction
of “appraisal’’ or “acquis-
ition” projections which have
always been in the back (and
not so far back as that) of
the minds of the authors of
the reserve price proposals,
as well as a lot of their sup-
porters, especially in Victoria.
There is plenty for the industry to do
to improve its efficiency. A number of
urgent reforms are already mooted such
as the rationalisation of small lots, better
rostering of auction dates, improvement
of store arrangements and the provision
of smoother finance for growers. The re-
jection of the reserve price proposals
should expedite these much-needed re-
forms. n


CRIME
Motor Murder
It is part of the Australian Way of Death to sit in front of the television
news on a Sunday night, to hear the news of “this weekend’s death toll on the roads”
and to see the film of collisions and tragedies. The next few weeks will again see
the regular appeals by police, road-safety organisations, and politicians to drive
soberly and carefully.
For it is also part of the Australian
Way of Death to celebrate Christmas
and the New Year with a marked in-
crease in what the NSW Police Com-
missioner, Mr N. Allan, has called
“motor murder”. Criminologist Gordon
Hawkins writes:
When Mr Allan accused “irresponsible
drivers” of committing “murder by
motor car” recently he received a mixed
reception. He followed up with an
attack on the licensing system which
allows “a kid of 17” to get into a high-
powered car and “drive like hell”. For
his pains he was told editorially that
he had “much to learn”, and accused, by
the Chamber of Automotive Industries of
NSW, of “muddled thinking” and a lack
of understanding of the real causes of
the road toll.
Yet there is no doubt whatever that, if
the object of his attention had been other
than motorists, he could have spoken
much more strongly without incurring
any displeasure or provoking a word of
criticism. If he had been concerned
with vandalism, say, or sexual offences
almost any other type of crime, in fact
he would have been assured of a
chorus of approval.
The truth is that public attitudes in re-
gard to law, law enforcement, crime and
punishment are in the main quite capri-
cious and irrational. Sir Robert Peel
defined public opinion as “that great
compound of folly, weakness, prejudice,
wrong feeling, right feeling, obstinacy
and newspaper paragraphs”. If there has
been any improvement since Peel’s day it
is difficult to discern. And nowhere is
that great compound more marvellously
exemplified than in relation to motoring
offences.
The public would demand the severest
penalties for a man who fired a revolver
in a public thoroughfare without regard
for the lives and safety of his fellow citi-
zens. Yet they are remarkably tolerant
of those who drive automobiles equally
lethal weapons with similar criminal
ruthlessness. Juries are reluctant to con-
vict motor manslaughters and the courts
commonly deal with them very lenient-
ly. Yet, both in terms of money and
human misery, they cost the community
far more than most of those we stigma-
tise as “real criminals”.
In a country where one person is killed
on our roads every four hours (and
in that period 27 are injured), it is by no
means unusual to meet people who speak
of having been fined for dangerous driv-
ing with something very like pride. And,
as the late Margery Fry remarked some
years ago: “Many people, who would cut
an acquaintance found guilty of stealing
£5, will still shake the hoof of a road-
hog.” Moreover, there is considerable re-
sistance to talking about traffic offences
of any kind as criminal.
An English criminologist who recently
completed and published the results of
some research into motoring offences
found that a majority of those he inter-
viewed could not see how motoring of-
fenders could possibly be of any interest
to a criminologist. As the London
“Times” has pointed out, “many drivers
unfortunately create the impression that
they do not regard anything they do on
the highway as in the accepted sense
criminal and that they are prepared
to do anything they have a sporting
chance of getting away with”. Nor do
these words apply only to a small irres-
ponsible minority.
It is not difficult to suggest explana-
tions for this. Undoubtedly, as more and
more of the public become users of motor
vehicles an increasing number of people
identify themselves with motoring of-
fenders. In such cases “There but for the
grace of God go I” springs more readily
to more lips than where other kinds of
criminal activity are concerned.
Another factor is that most of our
moral attitudes are acquired in infancy
or early youth. But there are a number
of offences like income tax evasion and
motoring offences which only become,
possible in later life. As a result, these
activities never really acquire the aura of
wickedness which surrounds straight
forward theft or assault, for example!
Many people cannot regard them as even!
morally wrong, much less criminal.
Again, it is probably true that many
“accidents” are caused not by the in-
dulgence of grossly selfish or sadistic im-
pulses but by mildly anti-social or irre-
sponsible tendencies which, if indulged
anywhere but behind the wheel of a car,
would cause little if any harm at all. The
idea that some personality change takes
place in all of us when we take the
wheel (Dr Jekyll obtains the licence and
Mr Hyde drives the car) is surely an;
exaggeration. The trouble is that what
in another situation might merely be a
gesture of irritation can become in the
form of slight pressure of one foot a
lethal act. If we survive, however, we
are not conscious of having indulged a
homicidal urge.
Yet, if law enforcement is to be ef-
fective in this field, it is essential that
some change in the public attitude come
about.
SCIENTOLOGY
A Clumsy Steamroller
In its Bill suppressing Scientology, the Victorian Government has used a legislative
steamroller to crack a social nut. The Psychological Practices Bill, instead of simply
dealing with Scientology, tries to cover, among other things, the use of hypnotism,
and, more importantly, the registration of psychologists.
It has aroused strong opposition from
psychologists and those in related pro-
fessions. For one thing, there is the
weakness in the drafting of the legisla-
tion. Sub-clause I of Clause 16 reads:
“Subject to this Act a person
(a) who has attained the age of
twenty-one years;
(b) who is of good fame and charac-
ter;
(c) who
(i) is a member of the Australian
Psychological Society;
(ii) is an associate or member of
the British Psycho-Analytic
Society;
(iii) is the holder of a degree from
a recognised university in the
Commonwealth of Australia
. . . after ... a progressive
three-year course of study in
psychology . . .;
(iv) has passed such examinations
as are prescribed by the Coun-
cil . .
As the Deputy Leader of the Opposi-
tion, Mr Lovegrove, indicated, the
absence of the word “or” in repetitive
form deprives these paragraphs of their
propefi relationship and suggests that
only those few learned men who qualify
under at least the first three conditions
may continue as psychologists. The
fourth clause has also been attacked.
The Council referred to is the Victorian
Psychological Council which will be set
up when the Act is proclaimed.
Under the terms of the Bill this super-


risory Council will consist of a medical
bractitioner, twg__ psychiatrists, a uni-
versity psychologist, and four_ persons
dominated by the Minister of Health of
phom at least three will be psycholo-
gists. The psychologists are protesting
that they may not, and probably will not,
have a majority on this registration
Council, and as the head of the Mel-
bourne University Psychology Depart-
ment, Professor Oscar Oeser, has pointed
but: “It will be the only registration
hoard for any registered profession on
which the profession does not have a
clear majority.”
Professor Oeser has also complained
that because of this circumstance “people
y ho are not trained as professional psy-
hologists can tell the universities what
o teach or what not to teach”. The
Government, presumably, has thought
that the appointment of psychiatrists to
the board would have satisfied the psy-
chologists, but this assumption, accord-
ing to Professor Oeser, is made on the
mistaken belief that clinical psychology
is all of psychology, “whereas 90 per
cent of all psychologists work with
normal people in schools or at work' 5 .
Professor Oeser has also suggested that
the Government has passed the Bill in
its present form because of “the desire
of some pressure groups to tell universi-
ties how and what to teach”. One can
only wonder who these groups may be
which are trying to persecute teaching
psychologists, but they probably are not
represented amongst the social workers,
industrial training officers, manage-
ment consultants, sociologists, marriage
guidance counsellors, personnel officers
and probation officers, much of whose
work will be made technically illegal
until they are exempted by special
machinery from the provisions of the
new Act.
The Government has argued that it
had to make blanket provisions and then
leave room for exemptions because of
the difficulty of preventing Scientologists
setting up under another name and with
a slightly different set of pseudo-scientific
tricks. But the result has been to offer
what is very near to a professional insult
to all of the above and to bring them
under the shadow of bureaucratic
machinery which, although necessary,
will inevitably be somewhat clumsy and
conservative in its workings,
BRIAN BUCKLEY
Tanner
"I must do something about this sometime."


Many ships, many trips for on-time cargo delivery
Farrell Lines’ 21 trans-oceanic cargo vessels make 84
voyages a year to and from United States East Coast ports.
Over five sailings monthly from Africa to U. S. Atlan-
tic and Great Lakes ports. 15 trans-Atlantic cargo vessels and
12 feeder fleet vessels serve all three ocean coasts of Africa.
And, on Farrell Lines, it’s only 14 days from Cape Town to New
York! Faster than any other line—more ships, more trips, too.
18 trips a year from Australia/New Zealand to U. S.
Gulf and East Coast ports. Six trans-Pacific cargo vessels serve
“Down Under”...ports-of-call from Fremantle to Wellington.
So for on-time cargo delivery, you can count on
Farrell Lines’ fleet-and 40 years of experience.
ship via Farrell Lines
An American Flag Line
Serving Growing World Markets
FARRELL LINES INTERNATIONAL—LOVEDAY HOUSE, MARSHALL ST., JOHANNESBURG


UNIVERSITIES I
The Tame-cat Senate
The timing was perfect. Just when the staff of the University of Queensland
was laying in coffee and benzedrine for the annual ordeal of marking examination
papers, The Honorable Jack Pizzey, Minister for Education, introduced a University
of Queensland Bill.
By the time the academics came back
to life the Bill had slipped through State
Parliament with little comment other
than ritualistic abuse of University staff
for not working hard enough. The new
Act increases the size of the Senate from
27 to a possible 34. A neat confidence
trick has been played in the apparent re-
duction of the number of Government
nominees from 14 to 11. In fact, the
effective Government representation has
been increased by one, since their former
nominees included a student representa-
tive and three leading clerics.
Under the new Act the students will be
allowed to appoint their own represen-
tatives, and a clerical trinity (the Angli-
can and Catholic Archbishops and a re-
presentative of the Queensland Council
of Churches) is to have seats on the
Senate by divine right. So far the Church-
es have made no official comment on
this concordat but some of the brighter
lights of the ecumenical movement have
already expressed alarm at the Queens-
land Council of Churches playing
Vatican to Pizzey’s Mussolini.
Staff representation has been increased
by one. Under the old Act the staff had
a maximum representation of four
the President of the Professorial Board, a
representative of the Staff Association and
a possible two of the nine senators ■'elect-
ed by Convocation. Under the new Act
the possible maximum is increased to
five by the addition of one more mem-
ber from the Professorial Board. Con-
vocation can now elect 10 senators, but
their democratic privileges are still
limited: only two of the successful can-
didates can be staff members and only
three more may have any professional
connection with education. For the aca-
demics this is probably the most chun-
derous feature of the Act. Some would
be prepared to make no further claims
for staff representation if they were
allowed to take their electoral chances
without restriction among the ten mem-
bers elected by Convocation.
A couple of other mysteries worry
those who know the melancholy history
of the Queensland Government in matters
of civil rights. Provisions were made
under the old Act that no religious test
was to be administered to students or
staff, and women were guaranteed equal
rights with men. Both these provisions
have disappeared from the new Act.
Before the new Bill came to Parlia-
ment, the Staff Association asked for
three senators from the Professorial
Board and three from the Staff Associa-
Jion. These recommendations were based
on practical as well as theoretical con-
siderations. As the volume of Senate busi-
ness increases, the few staff senators
spend most of their lives on Senate
committees. The days of amateur Uni-
versity government by men of goodwill
are over.
The Staff Association made three at-
tempts to meet the Minister but they
were refused an interview. Circulars were
sent to all State members and were greet-
ed with vivacious apathy on both sides
of the House. The executive of the Staff
Association is split on tactical issues. Its
overloaded professorial membership is
for dignity, maturity, subtlety and states-
manship at all costs, even the cost of
a Senate of unsympathetic amateurs. So
far the executive has not even called a
general meeting of the Association,
though a meeting has been requisitioned
by members and there is talk of a
move to express no confidence in the
newly constituted Senate. The Federal
Council of Staff Associations and the
Sydney Staff Association have asked the
Premier to reconsider, and there has been
a hunger strike by an obscure body
known as the Australian Council for
Religious Rights. But no one has seen
them and Premier Nicklin has not been
compelled to have them forcibly fed
with his home-grown pineapples.
Even a tame-cat Senate is entitled to
an occasional bowl of cream, so the new
Senate is to be allowed to co-opt two
members provided that they are not
academics. Otherwise, Mr Pizzey has
shown his Senate the sort of contempt
that Roman emperors showed for their
clapped-out patrician senators. The out-
going University Senate had modestly
asked if their successors might be allow-
ed to appoint their own Vice-Chancellor.
This is specifically denied in the new Act.
So the State Government's constant claim
that it has never interfered with the
University Senate is given the lie direct
in the Statute Book.
DENNIS PRYOR
SWAINSVILLF
/'M NOT HAFFY,
I'M NOT HEALTHY, AND
I'M Not rich.
DON'T&£ So NSC/AT/VE.
THINK OF INHAT YOOAR£.,
OKAY
/ AM MtSEKABtf.
/ AM S/CK, AND
/ AM KO/i.
UNIVERSITIES II
Dr K’s Struggle
Despite the seeming finality with which
it dismissed the Knopfelmacher affair,
Sydney University’s Senate knows only
too well that it has not heard the last
of it. To the chagrin of his opponents,
Dr Knopfelmacher has not given up nor
have his supporters.
Still waiting to be debated in the
NSW Upper House is the motion calling
for a committee of inquiry into Dr


Dinner for two.
£ k j 4
Li
wr^
i 1
r \sr
r*
/
M
or a sumptuous banquet
Whatever your taste in food from the
simple to the sumptuous Menzies can
cater for it. Right in the centre of
Sydney, Menzies offers beautifully
appointed bedrooms, with individually
controlled air-conditioning, genuine 24-
hour room service, and free in-hotel
parking for your car. Menzies wide
range of restaurants brings you food
from the four corners of the world!
Emperor Room Nightclub features gourmet
menu with floor show nightly at 9.30.
Single rooms from 5 gns. Doubles from
£6.15.0. (Special rates for children.)
.E_mun_.nn nn nn nr
EJB'“J!BE_En n.r rn nr
n n rr rr nr nn nr
r.r rr rrrr rr rr
c_b rr rr rr rr rr
fl fi BH PB F P HP BB
r_fi rn .en nn bb hb
Irir. rr._nn rr nn nr
nn rr nrnn nnrn
rn..nnzmi:nriznn nn
Menzies
Sydney
Hotel
mm
14 CARRINGTON ST. TELEPHONE 2-0232 CABLES “MENZOTEL” SYDNEY.
For immediate reservations contact: VICTORIA—Menzies, MELBOURNE; Savoy Plaza, MELBOURNE;
Hotel Federal, MELBOURNE. QUEENSLAND-Lennons, BRISBANE, -ennons, TOOWOOMBA; Lennons. GOLD COAST.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— HoteI Australia. NORTH ADELAIDE. TASMANIA— Wrest Point Riviera. HOBART.
Knopfelmacher’s rejection by Sydney j
University. It will not be heard until
February, 1966.
Also last week, for the third time in
Federal Parliament, Senator Gortoiu
spoke of his disquiet, this time makinl
the point that anti-Communists could
be deterred from expressing their viewii
as a result of the treatment meted out to(
Dr Knopfelmacher. '
The blandest statement of the wee!'
came from the Acting Vice-Chancelloi
of Sydney University, Professor W. M
O’Neil, who emphasised that the Univer-
sity Senate was satisfied that the decisior
was “not dictated by political considers
tions” and that there had been “no irre
gularity at any level in the procedure by
which this decision was reached”.
At least three professors at the Univer-
sity disagree with the Senate and said so
in a statement on November 15 recorded
in the minutes of the Professorial Board
at their request. Professor D. M. Arm-
strong made the statement and Professor;
Spann and Dunston asked to be associat-
ed with it. In part it reads: j
“During earlier discussions on the Pro-
fessorial Board and elsewhere it was
freely alleged that Dr Knopfelmacheq
was not academically qualified for thej
position. If these allegations were corl
rect, my academic judgment was!
seriously at tault. However, as a result ofj
extensive inquiry by the Committee and!
as a result of evidence put before the
Committee by myself and others, the
Committee was, I believe, in the main
convinced of three things: (1) Dr Knop-
felmacher is a brilliant, penetrating and
stimulating lecturer, who would be wel
able to conduct courses in political philo-
sophy; (2) in his academic lecturing Dr
Knopfelmacher’s presentation of material
is fully up to the standards of academic
objectivity observed in controversial dis-
ciplines; (3) Dr Knopfelmacher’s pub-
lications, although not extensive, are
quite compatible with his appointment'
to a Senior Lectureship in Philosophy.
“The disagreement between the major-
ity of the Committee and those of us who
took the minority view was, I believe,
about the suitability of Dr Knopfel-
macher on grounds other than those con-
cerned with his academic work. Here,
of course, I can claim no special ex-
pertise. I do, however, wish to dissent
strongly from the majority opinion-
While regretting some of Dr Knopfeb
macher’s pronouncements in the course
of current controversies, I see nothin!!
in them that should bar him from holdingl
academic appointment in the University
of Sydney.” 1


The View from Russell Hill
Running the War Machine
By SAM LIPSKI
[ipHE symbolism may not have been
;j intended but it is apt. Grouped
r around the American eagle atop the
[ 270 ft - high, needle-shaped American
monument on Canberra’s Russell Hill are
the headquarters of the Defence Depart-
ment. the Navy, the Air Force and the
[almost-completed buildings for the Army.
Australia’s current reliance on the
United States is a reminder that in none
of the wars in which Australians have
fought have they had to do so com-
fpletely under their own High Command.
It is the same today in Malaysia and
Vietnam. But it may not always be so
and the thinking and planning now
going on inside the donut-shaped
building, closest to the American monu-
ment. which houses the Defence E>epart-
ment is increasingly, if belatedly, becom-
ing geared to the possibility that there
may be situations where our “great and
powerful” friends may not be willing,
or may not be able, to defend Australia's
interests and that all the decisions on
where and how our forces should fight
will have to be made from Russell Hill
and not from Whitehall or the Pentagon.
. Whether Australian forces fight on
their own or, as at present, as part of a
larger allied force, their commanders in
the theatre of operations will report back
to a committee which this year has gain-
ed a new status within the defence net-
work the Defence Department's four-
man Chiefs-of-Staff Committee.
‘ The commitment of troops to Vietnam
hi a joint operation, involving particular-
ly the Army and Navy, the increased
responsibilities in Malaysia, and the u]p-
surge in defence spending have all been
factors pushing, however slowly, towards
a more centralised and unified control of
the armed forces. Thus necessity has
forced some streamlining of the still
questionably cumbersome multiplicity of
committees throughout the Defence De-
partment and the three Services.
But the Chiefs-of-Staff Committee has
not only been one of the main bene-
ficiaries of these developments. It has
been one of the prime movers on its own
behalf, and in this the personality and
talents of its Chairman, Air-Chief Mar-
shal Sir Frederick Scherger, have been
of considerable importance.
In March the Government recognised
this when it promoted him to the rank
of Air-Chief Marshal, making him the
country's highest-ranking officer. It had
earlier made it clear how necessary he
was by twice extending his appointment.
He will now complete a five-year term
in May. 1966.
By virtue of his position, Sir Fred-
erick is the principal military adviser to
the Minister and Department of Defence
and runs the meetings of the committee
which prepares joint military appre-
ciations and plans. He is also the Aus-
tralian Military representative on ANZUS
and SEATO. But there is no doubt that
his real role in defence policy-making is
wider and more influential than this.
A pipe-smoking, 61-year-old man with
the face of a leathery cherub, Sir Fred-
erick has won the confidence of Cabinet
and in particular Sir Robert Menzies for
his ability to see defence planning in the
broadest possible context and for his
grasp of both political and economic
considerations. For example, Sir Freder-
ick together with the Secretary of De-
fence, Sir Edwin Hicks, are regular
attenders at meetings of Cabinet’s De-
fence and Foreign Affairs Committee
(the Prime Minister, Mr McEwen, Mr
Holt, Mr Hasluck, Senator Paltridge and
Mr McMahon). Sir Frederick’s influence
is seen in major defence decisions like
that to buy the Mirage for the RAAF,
which against at least some dissenting
voices was bought on his strong advice.
There is little doubt, too, that, under a
generally unsophisticated Minister such
as Senator Paltridge has been in Defence,
the voices of the Departmental advisers
are listened to more carefully. Sir Fred-
erick’s influence has extended widely be-
cause the committee which he chairs in
turn forms part of a wider committee
in the department the Defence Com-
mittee. This is the key civil service com-
mittee in the way that the Chiefs-of-
Staff form the chief military committee.
Sir Edwin Hicks is Chairman and, in
addition to Sir Frederick and the three
Chiefs, it includes Sir Roland Wilson,
Secretary to the Treasury; Sir James
Plimsoll, Secretary of External Affairs;
and Sir John Bunting, Secretary of the
Prime Minister's Department. Represen-
tatives of other departments are co-opted
as required. This committee’s functions
are to advise the Minister on defence
policy as a whole and to co-ordinate the
military, strategic, economic, financial,
and external affairs aspects of defence
policy.
Although it is Sir Edwin Hicks who


has the theoretical right to decide when
the submissions from the Joint Chiefs
should come before Cabinet and there-
fore if he wanted could exercise a veto,
in fact, the Cabinet gets to hear joint
submissions from both the broader and
specifically military points of view.
In discussion about the role of de-
fence planners Sir Frederick emphasises
the need for evolutionary as opposed to
revolutionary a f titudes in situations short
of large-scale hostilities or an all-out
war. Planning ought to be flexible enough
to allow for change but ind'seriminate
changes are dangerous. He is therefore
sceptical of moves like the Canadian one
where the full-scale integration of the
forces under a unified command is under
way with initial reports of economies and
general success. But Sir Frederick
wonders whether it was not a desperate
attempt to solve a problem which had
been allowed to grow. He does not see
it becoming a serious consideration in
Australia in the immediate future.
The briefing game
QJir Frederick's ability to subordinate
his own background as an Air Force
man and on the whole see problems
from the point of view of overall defence
needs is attested to by at least one senior
Army officer in Canberra who puts it
down to the fact that Sir Frederick
graduated from Duntroon before trans-
ferring to the RAAF in 1925. The early
part of Sir Frederick's career in the
RAAF was spent as a test pilot and as
the RAAF’s chief test pilot he flew the
Australian-built Wirraways. His work
as a test pilot earned him the Air Force
Cross.
In the 1939-45 War he commanded
the First Tactical Air Force in the South-
West Pacific Campaign, and then the
Allied Air Forces which fought at Aitape
and Neomfoor, earning the DSO.
The RAAF air operations against
Balikpapan, Tarakan and Labuan came
under his direction in 1945.
After the war there were tours of duty
in Japan, Washington, and Malaya be-
fore his return to Australia where he
has been one of the few military chiefs
to assume any sort of identity in the pub-
lic mind during peacetime. “Scherg” is
known outside Canberra and was
enough of a public figure to have been
very high on the betting list for Lord
De L’lsle's successor as Governor-Gen-
eral. Yet, he is still far from being a
really familiar face and his fellow com-
mittee members are even less well known.
This is partly because the Defence De-
partment, until very recently, has not
felt any particular responsibility to in-
form the public of anything more than
the barest details of what it was doing.
It has always made it clear, and still
does, that it opposes the Service chiefs
discussing defence with journalists. Until
this year, for example, there was no De-
partment of Defence Press Relations
Officer who could answer routine in-
quiries from newsmen; a clerk spent half
the week designated as an administrative
officer and the rest telling journalists that
they would have to direct their inquiries
to the Minister or one of the Services.
There is also the general reluctance
of senior officers to discuss matters of
defence with civilians which militates
against a wider public knowledge of
their needs and ironically helps to make
their problems more confused in political
discussion. For senior officers this reluc-
tance is often part of a dilemma. On the
one hand thev see that there are certain
advantages to being a “public” rather
than a shadowy figure; on the other
hand thev wonder how this will be re-
garded when it comes to making the
appointments that really count. The re-
sult of the dilemma is usuallv silence
or occasionally a thinly veiled attempt
at pushing something through an “off-
the-record” chat with a journalist. This
haphazard approach to informing the
public seems slowly to be changing. The
briefing of journalists by Sir Frederick
Scherger and other Defence Department
officers is a start in the direction of the
example set by External Affairs which,
while still far from the kind of open-
ness which marks both British and
American foreign policy-makers in their
discussions with the Press, is at least a
start.
To journalists and other students of
Defence in Canberra the present Chiefs-
of-Staff Committee is potentially the most
effective and vigorous since the group
was set up in its present form in 1958
when an independent Chairman took
over. Previously the senior Service Chief
was Chairman. Chiefs-of-Staff are Gov-
ernment appointees and normally they
are initially appointed for three years.
Retiring age in the Services depends on
rank but the retiring age for the rank
of any Chief-of-Staff is 60. The present
members of the committee are;
Lieutenant-General Sir John Gordon
Noel Wilton, 55, is Chief of the General
Staff. Educated at Grafton High School
in New South Wales, he graduated from
Duntroon in 1930. He served in the
Western Desert and the Syrian Cam-
paign as a Battery Commander and was
mentioned in despatches. For his ser-
vice in the New Guinea campaign he
was appointed a Companion of the Dis-
tinguished Service Order. In 1953 he was
appointed Commander of the 28th Com-
monwealth Infantry Brigade in Korea
and later decorated with the US Legion
of Merit, and the Most Excellent Order
of the British Empire. He has served as
an administrator, as Commandant of
Duntroon and most significantly as
Chief of the SEATO Military Planning
Office in Bangkok in 1960.
He is the obvious replacement for Sir
Frederick Scherger, although normally it
would be the turn of the Chief of the]
Naval Staff. But with Sir John’s normal
three-year term as Army chief coming
to an end at about the same time as
Sir Frederick retires and with the in.
sufficient seniority of Vice-Admiral Me-
Nicoll, Sir John is the more likely
appointee. His big strengths are in logis-
tics and planning and his understanding
of South-East Asia. He played a majo]
role in SEATO's military planning while)
in Bangkok and this experience seems ta
clinch his succession. His likely succesj
sor as Chief of the General Staff is the
present GOC Eastern Command, Major]
General T. J. Daly, who has travelled
recently with Sir John to London and
Vietnam.
Vice-Admiral Alan Wedel Ramsay Mci
Nicoll, 57, is Chief of the Naval Staff]
The son of a soldier, the late Brigadier-
General Sir Walter McNicoil. the Navy
Chief was educated at Scotch College
in Melbourne and joined the Navy at
the age of 13 when he entered Naval
College at Jervis Bay. He specialised in
torpedoes and while serving in the
Mediterranean in 1941, as a Lieutenant-
Commander with the British Navy, he
was awarded the George Medal for his
coolness and courage in removing the
inertia pistols from eight torpedoes
aboard the captured Italian submarine
Galilelo Galilei. The torpedoes had been
in the tubes for about six months and
were badly corroded at the head.
Wearing two hats
After concluding his wartime service
as executive officer of HMAS Hobar
he served as Naval Director of Plans anc
Operations for a year. In 1949 he took,
command of the destroyer HMAS War\
ramunga, and in 1953 became captain
of the cruiser Australia, followed by a
succession of staff posts in Australia and
London. Taking over this year from Sir
Hastings Harrington, McNicoil came to
his new post at a difficult time. The,
widespread doubts about the efficiency,
and morale of the service after the
ager inquiry were perhaps the most ob-
vious problems. But the more basic one
of what sort of Navy Australia ought
to have was still far from being settled.!
It is still far from being settled despite,
the planned additions to the Navy ini
ships and planes over the next few years
and the Vietnam involvement has high-]
lighted more deficiencies in convoy pro-i
tection.
In Canberra, McNicoil has a reputation]
for being a well-informed, hard-working!
and skilled administrator. Under thel
present system the ability to negotiate
and work through committees is an even.


V :; f
■
m
i
■
mm
1
m
■ m
. mm§L: I
J ™ WmmmmA
A - .
You are welcomed as a friend
at Tokyo’s Marunouchi Hotel
Coming to Japan ? People who seem to
know you await your visit at the Marunouchi
Hotel. We've had years of experience in
making Australian guests comfortable.
Conveniently located one block from
Tokyo Central Station, we offer the quiet
hospitality you've told us you like. Fine
food and modern facilities are only part
of the story.
You'll be pleased to find large-size beds,
individual air conditioning controls and
many other extras in your room. Come
sample the essence of Japanese "shibui"
at the Marunouchi Hotel.
Management: T. KOBAYASHI & SON
Cable: MARUHOTE TOKYO Tel: 231 0271
(pore necessary talent for a Chief-of-Staff
as is an ability to wear two hats that
of his own service and that of the com-
mittee’s. McNicoll’s supporters in Can-
berra, inside and outside the Navy, are
jonfident that he will manage to in-
tegrate the two personalities and make
iganging-up” on the Navy by the Air
’orce and the Army an unproven but
ot unreasonable inference less likely
the future.
Air-Marshal Alister Murray Murdoch,
1)3, is Chief of the Air Staff. Educated
i|t Caulfield Grammar School, Victoria,
lie went first to Duntroon as a Staff
'adet and then transferred as an air
adet to the RAAF. In 1941 he com-
nanded an RAF squadron in Iceland, fol-
owed by service in the Middle East and
_ondon. Back in Australia in 1944 he
vas Senior Air Staff Officer at Darwin
directing 824 s and Catalinas in strikes
Against the Japanese in Java and the
E'jiouth China coastal zones. Towards the
■:nd of the war he worked with the
RAAF force which took part in the
Halikpapan landing, earning the CBE
11 nth a citation which commended him as
an outstandingly efficient Air Staff
Officer who has served the RAAF bril-
e kntly during nineteen months of con-
inious and highly responsible work”.
e I From 1962 he was the Air Officer
s pmmanding Operational Command be-
e tre taking over in June this year from
:s Sr Valston Hancock. The newest mem-
e kr of the Chiefs-of-Staff Committee, he
n lings with him a good deal of inter-
service committee experience. For two
ind a half years from 1959 he was
pconded to the Department of Defence
ji Head of the Australian Joint Services
jiaff in London.
The Chiefs-of-Staff get a salary which
I determined by their designation as
Timbers of the committee, not by their
particular service rank. Effectively, all
'.ae chiefs, except Sir Frederick, have
jSuivalent rank. The chairman’s salary
J[fßooo a year, while the three Service
jStiefs each get £7750.
Normally the Chiefs-of-Staff Commit-
Apfe meet once weekly or more often as
tubed. Usually the meetings take up
morning but sometimes they will go
jp for the whole day. And when major
J|fence programmes are being studied
, jll is not unusual for the committee to
i for days at a time. Sir Frederick is
{ Gown as an efficient chairman who gets
.8 rough business quickly. One aide ex-
“When Sir Frederick wants
p we information he wants it in a hurry
Jid we get it for him in a hurry. Yes-
rday he wanted something which went
J to him at three o’clock. The Chiefs
o g J| d discussed it by 3.15.”
the committee’s functions
the preparation of military appro-
bations and plans, handling the executive
wer and authority for the control of
65 .. „ _
operations in war if a Commander-in-
Chief is not appointed, recommending
allocations of resources to commanders
of joint forces, the co-ordination of joint
service exercises, and the development
of joint warfare doctrine.
Planning joint warfare
this means in practice is that the
" agenda for any meeting will cover
a wide area of questions, some of them
comparatively routine. An average meet-
ing will deal with four to seven new
items. Frequently these will have been
considered by one or more of about half
a dozen subordinate committees in the
Defence Department who would have
submitted reports. (These subordinate
committees include the Defence Research
and Development Policy Committee, a
Joint Planning Committee, a Joint In-
telligence Committee, a Defence Business
Board, and a Joint Administrative Plan-
ning Committee. Subordinate committees
play a secondary role to the Defence De-
partment's principal committees of
which there are four the Defence
Committee, the Defence Administration
Committee, the Joint War Production
Committee and the Chiefs-of-Staff Com-
mittee.)
Typical items on an agenda would
be strategic studies of, say, Indonesia’s
military strength based on intelligence
estimates, or an examination of the re-
sults of a recent joint exercise. The next
items might cover the development of
joint training programmes proposals for
new service equipment or weapons
system, reports on tests of new aircraft
or ships, the deployment of Australian
forces and joint Service policy matters in
the personnel field.
The planning of joint warfare doc-
trine is one of the major functions of
the committee and it is directed towards
ensuring that the three Services work to-
gether effectively. For example, one item
of particular importance in most of the
probable theatres of war in South-East
Asia where Australian forces could be
deployed in the future is the question
of amphibious operations which would
normally mean the participation of all
three Services. Any landing of forces is
likely to involve the use of air support
even if only in the form of air transport
as well as close co-operation between the
Navy and the Army.
Joint-warfare doctrine is an area of
military study which more than most is
constantly changing because it is here
that the development of new weapons,
equipment and transport techniques has.
radically altered ideas of what is feasible.
The wide use of the helicopter and
fixed-wing aircraft with a short take-off


and landing capability, for instance, has
made possible operations which previous-
ly could not have been attempted. One
of the reasons given by military analysts
why the Americans, unlike the French,
could not lose the war in Vietnam if they
chose to keep fighting is their superior
mobility and air-transport systems which
a decade ago were not available to the
French. The continuing development of
cross-country vehicles with an amphi-
bious capability is another example of
how technical developments are bring-
ing new ideas in joint warfare doctrine.
But an even more important function
of the Chiefs-of-Staff Committee is that
which has grown in the last two years
and has accelerated in the last six
months the control of Australian
forces overseas in actual or potential
combat situations. Australian forces go-
ing overseas to Malaysia or Vietnam
come under the command of the Allied
Theatre Commander.
Who decides how Australian troops
should be used? The general conditions
for their employment are agreed before-
hand at the Government level following
consideration by the Chiefs-of-Staff Com-
mittee and the Defence Committee of
the Defence Department at which rep-
resentatives from the Prime Minister's
Department and from External Affairs
are able to give extra consideration to
the wider implications of any military
situation. There was considerable discus-
sion, for instance, throughout last year
and this year of the implications if Aus-
tralian troops fought Indonesian troops in
Borneo. The risk was taken.
Each Australian Commander in the
field has a directive which incorporates
the limiting conditions and gives him the
right to communicate as necessary with
Australian authorities. When Joint Ser-
vice Australian commanders are appoint-
ed the Chiefs-of-Staff are responsible for
the control of their operations. Where
one service onlv is involved then that
particular Chief keeps the committee
aware of the operations of that
element.
The Chiefs-of-Staff have direct con-
tact with Joint Service commanders in
the field and if essential could speak
directly to the Vietnam or Malaysian
commanders. For the most part com-
munication is in the form of telegraph
and teleprinter messages. There are daily
messages from Vietnam during combat
duty and the Committee is informed in
advance of all operations in which Aus-
tralian troops take part.
Defence in a vacuum
TI/hile all this presents a picture of
"" reasonably efficient operation within
a given framework, the question remains:
How good is the framework? For, of
course, what has been outlined above is
in one sense to describe the workings of
the defence machine in a vacuum. In
the above outline little mention has been
made of the three Services and their
role. Now, while it is true that theirs is
"No doubt about you, Elmer, you're the life and soul of the party."
largely to dispose rather than to propose
it is difficult to make distinctions between
the Defence Department’s workings and
the reaction of the particular Services,
For it is only through the Services that]
the most elaborate joint plans can be
executed. As well as the role of three
Services the other fundamental consider-
ations in discussing all defence planning
are the economic ones.
On both counts, the question of econ-
omic planning and the question of how
efficient the most careful joint planning
can be when it has to filter through the
innumerable committees endlessly served
up by the three Services there are serious
doubts as to whether Australia has kept
up with the changing concepts of defence
spending and defence organisation.
The basic notion that nowadays econo-
mics and defence potential are so closelyj
connected that progress in both areas carl
be mutually reinforcing has not been 1
accepted in Government thinking, or if it
has, its fruits do not show. In a recent
series of articles in the “Australian Finan-
cial Review”, Peter Robinson showed
how far behind Australia lagged in the
use of economic analysis in military prob-'
lems. He concluded that the techniques
implemented by US Defence Secretary
McNamara in transforming the working
of the Pentagon over the last five years
were essential for Australia which he des-
cribed as having a “quarrelling, frag-
mented, and leaderless defence establish-
ment”. |
In fact the amount of “quarrelling"
that goes on within the Defence Departj
ment, or even between Departments likei
Treasury, Supply and Defence, is not]
conspicuously worse than that which
goes on in similar situations even in the!
post-McNamara United States where thej
competition for resources is as great andl
fierce as it ever was.
This is not meant to serve, as a case
against the use of intelligent economic
planning in defence, for Robinson seenisj
to be unanswerably right on the question!
of a “fragmented and leaderless” defence:
establishment.
A defence machine which has parts
to it in Treasury, Supply, Defence, Army,
Navy and Air Force, and when those
parts have not been looked at since the
ill-fated Morshead committee of 1957,
must remain suspect. And it is quite
clear that there is no McNamara ora
Paul Hellyer (Canada’s energetic Minister 1
for Defence) or a Dennis Healey looming
on the horizon to shake things up enough I
from the politician’s end.
In this context the spotlight is throw
even more on a body like the Chiefs-of
Staff Committee where the example
joint Services co-ordination might proY|
at least a beginning towards a mot { |
rational and more unified defend
machine.


The Conchies
No action more lonely
By BRIAN JOHNS
rpHEY are lonely ones. Somehow, they
j-*- never seem more lonely than when
they are gathered together. There would
have been about 80 people at the meet-
ing in the small hall at the Workers’
Educational Association headquarters in
Sydney, organised by one of the many
pacifist groups. This time it was the
Australian Peace Pledge Union.
There was a heavy sprinkling of youths
and their girlfriends —to hear Miss
Vivienne Abraham, tireless enthusiast for
the pacifist cause, give a concise history
of conscientious objection in Australia,
to hear Sydney University’s Professor F.
May give a far from concise history of
his own experiences as a conscientious
objector in England during the last war,
and to hear the testimonies of three
young conscientous objectors.
Testimonies was the word. As halting,
as confused, as simplistic, as brash —each
vas all of these things in one way or
another they provided the guts of the
meeting. The tea-and-biscuits atmosphere
»as cut by the sharp immediacy of the
accounts of young men standing out from
'the crowd.
The three, Paul Brennan, a political-
science student at the University of New
South Wales, Neil Burnet, a second-year
nedical student at Sydney University,
tnd Robin Kitching, a builder’s laborer,
vere not typical of the some 330 objec-
tors who have registered their dissent
jfrom the current selective national service
scheme. Most of these base their con-
scientious opposition on religious
grounds. Most are members of the funda-
mentalist sects Jehovah’s Witnesses,
i Seventh Day Adventists, Christadelphians,
~f t nd other smaller sects like the True Fol-
jbwers of Jesus Christ and the Christian
Israelite Church, but Anglicans, Roman
Catholics, and other denominations are
represented.
I [ The three young men at the meeting
,in the WEA hall explained their con-
scientious objections on humanist
pounds. The National Service Act,
t vvhich sets the courts hearings are
jSrst heard before a magistrate and ap-
peals before a judge of the District Court
- —the task of testing an objector’s con-
science, provides that “a conscientious
Relief is a conscientious belief whether
ihe ground of the belief is or is not of
f religious character and whether the be-
lief is or is not part of the doctrines of
e ‘ religion”. It is not the court’s job to
kamine the truth or validity of the ob-
jections, but “merely” whether they are
held sincerely.
Pacifist groups frequently quote a
judgment by the Chief Justice of West-
ern Australia, Sir John Dwyer, in the
Supreme Court in 1953 allowing an ap-
peal by a conscientious objector:
“I should say that a conscientious be-
lief is an inward conviction of what is
morally right or wrong. It is a conviction
that is genuinely reached and held by
some process of thinking about the
subject. It represents a conclusion that
is uninfluenced by a consideration of ad-
vantage or disadvantage, either to one-
self or others, and perhaps is combined
with a willingness to act according to
the particular conviction reached, al-
though it may involve personal discom-
fort or suffering or material loss.
“If those characteristics are present, I
think it is quite irrelevant to consider
whether the conviction is reasonable or
correct.”
By the time of the Peace Pledge-meet-
ing Neil Burnet, for example, was in
fact able to give the crux of his con-
scientious objection. But, as he said
himself, he had worked out this position
only after his experience in court.
How many people can explain their
basic ethics? So, it is not surprising that
a conscientious objector should develop
his along his difficult road of dissent. As
would be expected from his beliefs, Bur-
net was applying for total exemption
(although he did say, “I would be quite
prepared to spend two years working for
such an organisation as the Peace Corps
which is an alternative in America. In
fact, it is one of my ambitions to serve
with the Peace Corps, anyway.”). He was
granted only non-combatant duties, a
decision against which he is attempting to
appeal. Attempting, because the Act pro-
vides that an appeal must be lodged with-
in 14 days; Burnet appealed all right, but
unwittingly he breached the Act by post-
ing his appeal to the District Court in-
stead of serving it personally.
Burnet’s case is impressive because,
had he wished to, he could have had his
service deferred as a student, but he did
not want to “shelter behind Government
policy”. In fact, of the some 330 Aus-
tralian conscientious objectors, 118 ap-
plications for complete exemption have
not continued because the applicants
were among those who have been bal**
loted out from service.
The most publicised of the conscien-
tious objectors is Robin Kitching. His
publicity came from his membership of
the Eureka Youth League and the Com-
munist Party. During the lower-court
hearing at which Kitching claimed total
exemption from military service, great
play was made of his political associa-
tions. The Department of Labor and Nat-
ional Service briefs counsel to “test”
the beliefs of conscientious objectors, but
there are times when counsel appears not
only to test but to prosecute. Under cross-
examination Kitching said that he had
been conscientiously opposed to warfare
and killing for three or four years.
“I came to these conclusions from dis-
cussions with friends, with a good friend
of mine, whom I will later call as a
witness. Briefly, my beliefs are that I
am opposed to all forms of military acti-
vity, whether they be of a combatant or
non-combatant nature. I hold my con-
scientious belief that war serves no other
purpose than destroying mankind. I do
not believe in capital punishment. I do
not believe in mercy killing.”
During the evidence the inconsisten-
cies in Kitching’s beliefs with his
membership in the EYL and Communist
Party he had been a member of these
groups for only 18 months were
clearly shown. However, it was not un-
til his appeal against the Sydney magis-
trate’s decision that he should serve as
"Just stick o thorn in your toot and along comes some 'do-gooder' and
. . . dinner is served."


a non-combatant, that the way in which
he had reached his beliefs really became
clear. By this time he had resigned from
the Communist Party because as he said
in evidence: “1 became aware of the dif-
ference between my views and those of
the Communist Party right from the be-
ginning.”
From the District Court evidence it
became clear that Kitching, as his coun-
sel submitted, had “not only held his
views, but flaunted them long before he
was personally liable for military service".
Kitching had “concerned himself with
action door-knocking, and soliciting
for signatures to a peace petition, and
there is no action more lonely”. Mr Jus-
tice Monahan upheld Kitching’s appeal
for total exemption.
Kitching had been represented by
counsel in his appeal. Groups helping
pacifists generally agree that conscien-
tious objectors should be represented, if
not by a qualified solicitor or barrister,
at least by a friend. They also recommend
that the conscientious objector have
someone who will give witness to his
beliefs —as Kitching did. It is one sign
of the ambiguous nature of establishing
the conscience of a conscientious objec-
tor that there are still misgivings about
the propriety of an objector being re-
presented, or helped before his hearing.
Significantly, many conscientious objec-
tors themselves believe, almost as if it
were an African Sasswood trial, that
they should come through without help.
Leaving aside the 118 ballotted out of
service, there were 66 conscientious ob-
jectors seeking total exemption in New
South Wales, 51 in Victoria, 32 in
Queensland, 17 in Western Australia, 13
in South Australia and one in Tasmania.
Ninety-two of these cases are still await-
ing hearing, but 13 have already been
refused, 52 granted total exemption, and
26 non-combatant duties. Apart from the
Kitching case, which was won on appeal,
only one conscientious objector in New
South Wales has been granted total
exemption a Jehovah's Witness. This
compares with 21 in Queensland, for ex-
ample, 17 in Victoria and four in South
Australia.
Pacifists are not happy with the situ-
ation in Sydney where all cases come be-
fore the one magistrate. They would
prefer the hearings to be spread.
However, there is not a great deal of
support for the English practice of
hearing applications for conscientious
objection before a lay tribunal.
The Federal Pacifist Peace Council of
Australia, the co-ordinating body for
all pacifist groups, has prepared a sample
of 40 questions likely to be asked of the
conscientious objectors. A random sam-
ple: “You pay taxes. What is the differ-
ence between helping to pay for a war
and taking part yourself?” “Do you think
you should do without a police force?”
“Is there not a greater evil than war?”
“If we had not stopped Hitler, what
would the world be like today?” “If you
were in a situation where you were to be
killed, would you kill the invader to
save your own life?”
There are two strains in the pacifist
movement. There are those who are satis-
fied to hold their beliefs as personal
matters, and those who believe that paci-
fism is a cause to be worked for posi-
tively. There are Conscientious Advisory
Committees in every State, concerned
to help pacifists establish their rights.
Then there are the wide range of organ-
isations, from the long-established
Women’s International League for
Peace and Freedom to the Quakers
Peace Committee.
Pacifism has a long, proud history in
Australia. Some members can date their
family association with the cause back
to 1890 in Australia. Conferences of
pacifist organisations were held in Aus-
tralia in the times of the great debates
or conscription in 1916, 1917 and
1918. At the conference in 1918 there
were 100 delegates representing 54
organisations.
Naturally, the time of greatest pacifist
activity is the time of war and conscrip.
tion. Some but not all of the pacifist
organisations support and co-operate with
movements like the Australian Inter-,
national Congress for Disarmament. The
treasurer for the AICD in Sydney, fop
example, is Mr David Allen, a Quaker
and a World War II conscientious objec-[
tor who served a six-month gaol sentence
for his beliefs. An accountant, Mr Allen
is a third-generation pacifist who never-
theless prefers to concentrate his peace
activities in the AICD. “If we are to get
anywhere we must combine, irrespectivr
of our political beliefs”. Others, like the
Victorian branch of the Federal Pacifist
Council, go their own way.
The Double Standard
Archbishop Gough as a threat to freedom?
By ALAN REID
When Dr James Cairns draws atten-
tion (as he has done) to what he
describes as associations between
Liberal Ministers and the Utashi, a
Fascist-type Croatian organisation, he
would be the first to claim that he is
doing his public duty and defending
liberty.
When Liberal Ministers, like Senator
John Gorton (Vic.) and Senator Colin
McKellar (NSW), draw attention (as they
have done) to Dr Cairns’ association in
political-type activities with people be-
longing to a party which Dr Cairns’ own
party has described as “subversive” and
“totalitarian”, they are guilty of “smear-
ing” and “McCarthyism”.
Those potted illustrations, both en-
shrined in Hansard (Cairns on Utashi,
page 1886, May 14, 1964, and Gorton
and McKellar on pages 1677 and 1679
respectively, November 18, 1965), reveal
the dual standards that have evolved in
Australian politics over recent years.
You are a liberal hero if you attack
an authoritarian group of the Right
and draw attention, as is your duty, to
any association between a politician and
these authoritarian groups. But if you
draw attention to what you believe to be
an association between a politician and
the authoritarians of the Left —the Com-
munists—you become a “smearer”, a
“McCarthyist”.
If you are a “peace front” clergyman
and anyone questions your wisdom in
visiting Peking, Hanoi, or Moscow on
a sponsored trip, all the so-called liberal
forces in Australia (including the Com-
munist Party) will rush to your defence.
But if you are the Anglican Archbishop
of Sydney, visiting Australian soldiers
sent by the Australian Government to
Vietnam and, on your return, you venture
the opinion that the defeat of the Viet-
cong is now a matter of time (which
point of view disagrees with that of Dr
Cairns), you are “a threat to the freedom
of Australia”. (Dr. Cairns in an address
to a Vietnam protest-rally organised by
the Victorian ALP Executive at Cobun
Town Hall, November 21, 1965.)
How remote from reality can you get?
Dr Cairns is an academic who took bis
doctorate in Economics and hence must
be accepted as using words with preci-
sion and an understanding of their mean-
ing; he is an able TV exponent and ex-
perienced parliamentarian; he is also, as
a possible leader of the Labor Party, a
man who may one day stand only one
step away from the Prime Ministership.
It is against this background that his
Coburg speech merits examination.
Dr Cairns is reported as saying: “Free-
dom in Australia is not endangered by
Communists or their friends — they are
not strong enough to endanger anything.
Those who really threaten freedom in
Australia are the leaders of the RSb
more than half the Liberal Party, anil
men like Archbishop Gough of Sydney.
As I was not present at the meeting, I
cannot personally guarantee that D r ]
Cairns said what he is reported as say-
ing. But a fortnight now has passed.
Dr Cairns has been challenged on the


GIFT OFFER
Bulletin Record
(45 R.P.M. EXT. PLAY)
Chunder
Down
Under
WITH
BARRY HUMPHRIES
is available for only 10s. post-free. It has two of
the hits from the show "Excuse I"—-the surfie # s
"The Old Pacific Sea" and the skier's "Snow
Complications".
Send 1 Os. (a cheque or postal note, not cash, please) to
"Bulletin Records", Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney, together
with the coupon and address label below. (Records may
also be purchased over the counter from the Paper Sales
Department, sth floor, Telegraph House, 168 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, Monday to Friday, between 9 a.m, and
5 p.m.
ADDRESS LABEL
BULLETIN RECORD RECORD ONLY
Name
Address
State
Sender .\.
Iff undelivered, please return to Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydt^y.
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
ORDER FORM
BULLETIN RECORD
Box 7052, G.P.O., Sydney
Please DISPATCH I
BULLETIN RECORD(S), price 10s. a copy (post free). I enclose 10s. cheque/postal note, j
Name of sender (
Address j
State A l
If more than one record is ordered, attach list giving full name, address, State and,
if overseas, country.
report of what he said, both in the Home
of Representatives by Mr Jess (Liberal,
Vic.) and in the Senate by Senator Gor-
ton, the Works Minister, and Senator
McKellar, the Repatriation Minister, and
he has so far not impugned the accuracy
of the report.
Moreover, except that in Melbourne
he named the people at whom he was
tilting. Dr Cairns has said practically
the same thing before in an authorised
text which he has handed out himself.
In his 1960 Perth Curtin Memorial Lec-
ture, he said: “The old concept of liberty
is still accepted in Australia by the estab-
lished class, by the patriotic, the con-
servative people ... It is they who are
responsible for the greatest threat to lib-
erty in Australia today.”
In another lecture, circulated under
his signature, he wrote: “For the socialist
(in Australia), absolute Left-wing move-
ments are not a power problem. The
Xommunist Party and its ‘front’ organ-
isations, although moderate in most
respects, have so little power that they
are not in any way part of the power
structure . . . The power of the absolute
Left wing is completely insignificant.”
On what Dr Cairns said at the Coburg
meeting, the Communists cannot en-
danger freedom in Australia because they
have so little power, but Dr Gough can.
The logical extension of this is that Dr
[Gough has more power and influence
than the Communist Party.
The Communist Party succeeded in
'bringing Australian industry almost to
a close-down in the great coal strike of
1949. Could you see Dr Gough achieving
this even if he wanted to? The Com-
munist Party almost succeeded in wreck-
ing the Woomera rocket project on the
grounds that “everything done in the
supposed interests of Soviet Russia is
justifiable even though the defences of
Australia may be imperilled” (see the
pamphlet “Hands Off the Nation’s De-
fences”, written by Dr Evatt, then Attor-
ney-General, explaining the need for the
approved defence-project legislation).
Can you see Dr Gough achieving this
even if he wanted to?
The Communist Party ensured there
was no shipping during the Korean war
for Australian troops or their supplies,
though Australian participation was
under United Nations’ auspices and was
Labor-backed. (See the boast in the “Sea-
men’s Journal”, March, 1952, by Com-
munist Seamen’s Union secretary Mr
E. V. Elliott to an East Berlin meeting
of the WFTU, banned by the Aus-
tralian Council of Trade Unions as
“bogus and Communist-controlled”: “No
Australian ship has taken troops or
supplies from Australia to Korea and
the Government was compelled to use
Air Force planes for this purpose.”) Can
you see Dr Gough achieving this even if
he wanted to?


rick,£bp(Hlcli/Ol
AMPHORA
LIKE AN
EXTRA MILD TOBACCO?
Then ask for Amphora
In the Brown Pouch
it J
59
r -
f :*J
■
■M
tes-
■ in
*■::
wm
gentle
_ PREFER A
MILD AROMATIC?
Then try Amphora Aromatic
in the Blue Pouch
gentle
FOR A
FULL AROMATIC!
Choose Amphora Full Aromatic
in the Red Pouch
SAI7S/1
AMPHORA
f
There’s a choice of
three fine Amphora pipe
tobaccos all cool
smoking —so there is
one to suit you. Amphora
is an imported tobacco!
6'9
2 oz.
I MOOBCI OF DOUVIE EGBERTS SOYU FACTORIES, lITRCCHT, IOURIII
Between January, 1964, and October,
1965, the Communist Party, operating
through its shop-stewards organisation,
produced all but a small proportion of
the more than 100 stoppages which have
taken place in Commonwealth Defence
establishments stoppages that meet-
ings of Communist shop stewards, who
operate in defiance of ACTU policy (see
ACTU resolution about area and shop
committee, December, 1963), have been
instructed to step up as part of the Viet-
nam protest campaign. Can you see Dr
Gough achieving this even if he wanted
to? Or the RSL? Or even half the Liberal
Party?
The list can be extended almost in-
definitely. I doubt if Dr Gough could
influence an individual on the ALP’s
Federal Conference, Labor’s supreme
policy-making body. The Communist
Party can influence quite a few through
its control of key unions. Dr Gough is
unlikely to have had a single vocal fol-
lower at this year’s ACTU Con-
gress. the Communist Party had
some 200 in a Congress number-
ing 570. Dr Gough probably
does not control a single union.
The Communist Party controls
some 200 in a Congress number
ones ir. Australia. Dr Gough
could not tie up a single ship.
The Communist Party can tie up
whole ports. (See the letter dated
November 15, 1965, by Water-
side Workers’ Federation gen-
eral secretary Mr C. Fitzgibbon
DR GOUGH
to the strongly Communist-influenced
Melbourne branch of the WWF protest-
ing about the unauthorised stoppage on
Vietnam held in that port.)
But, according to Dr Cairns, Dr Gough
is someone with the power to threaten
freedom in Australia today while the
power of the Communist Party is “com-
pletely insignificant”.
And Dr Gough is also eligible for
classification as a “reactionary” while
according to Dr Cairns (page 9 of his
1960 Curtin Lecture) support for “Com-
munist or any radical or dissident point
of view ... in many ways leads towards
economic and social progress”.
In his Noosa Heads lecture, the ALP
Federal Secretary, Mr C. S. Wyndham,
made it clear that he was aware that dual
standards of political criticism had been
evolved and that he disapproved of
them. “Nowadays it is fashionable in
certain quarters to knock the United
States, to belittle everything that great
country tries to do and all its leaders
struggle to achieve,” he said. “Anyone
who puts a contrary view [Dr Gough?]
or endeavors to be a little more objective
[anti - Communist radicals, including
Wyndham himself?] is immediately
dubbed a reactionary or within the
ranks of the party a Grouper.”
Almost as though he were deliberately
replying to the statement attributed to
Cairns that if freedom in Australia were
lost it would be because of the activities
of the anti-Communists, Wyndham
pointed out that an individual who was
anti-Communist was also, if a democrat, I
anti-authoritarian. “Nearly thirty years
ago, men from many nations . . . fought'
on the side of the Spanish Republican
Government against the Franco revolt,"
said Wyndham. “Not all these men were
socialists. They included Esmond Romil-
ly, a nephew of Sir Winston Churchill,
But all were genuine volunteers and not
the unofficial, semi-official or non-official
regulars who have been euphemistic-
ally given that title in local wars of the!
past decade ... Neither the individual nor
the parties were simply fighting for a
partisan principle ... all were fighting!
to defend democracy against totalitarian-
ism.” When Wyndham used the word
“totalitarianism” he probably had ia
mind the late Dr Evatt’s definition ol
Communism (Hansard, page
1000, April 17, 1958): “The
objection of Labor to Commun-
ism begins w ith the fact that the
Communist Party believes in a|
totalitarian form of government
. . . Communist governments]
resemble Fascist governments
. . . These governments have no
resemblance to democratic gov-
ernment and Labor objects to
all of them because they have no
basis in democracy.” On that
definition it is hard to see how
Dr Cairns equates anti-Communism i
with anti-democracy.
But Mr Wyndham is not the only one
who has perceived the dual standard of
criticism that is increasingly seeking to
exempt those who are critical of autho-
ritarianism in all but its Communist form
from political criticism. In the Novem-
ber, 1965, Communist “Review” at
article signed by “Endel Ni It” reads:
“The reluctance of Right-wing intellec-
tuals and lecturers to speak and debate
for the Government (in support of its
foreign policy) is not unique to Australia:
the same problem arose in the USA. In-
deed there are very capable spokesmen
among he Right-wing intellectuals and in
universities. Yet they are hardly ever will-
ing to debate issues at public forums.
Sometimes they do it before safe ad
selected audiences. The cause is in the
ideology of the Right-wing intellectuals
who are motivated by personal interest
for their careers which might be damaged
[as Dr Knopfelmacher’s was?] by them
defending anaemic policies about which
they have some reservations.”
Substitute the word “anti-Communist"
for “anaemic” and you have quite a real-
istic assessment of the position in Aus-
tralia today.


■HHHnHHnri
• • •
Mi v -\> '"S-ISxT )"" "? >-5-'' ■- -•■■ '% • .. - v , x >>"
llilpllii?
■1
• •••. : v ' ; . •
;>>■■*■:' ;as
piipiMgpsp
' ■;
m
r
wmmmmmm
'Sf :■ -"-\ , \V'
.
.
,
mm
:■
■
■
MMM'
• :/',
... ■ •
~
: - :
tlii»
■
;
W'f?
:
■■■■
mm
*1
■
m
k,.>C
IX
K
1 ■
m
wokad's
*g&|d§gs| V-Vy i I
j IF¥ &aaa^
\
Minchinbury
makes it memorable
Minchinbury White Seal Champagne
Brut Champagne • Sparkling Burgundy • Sparkling Moselle
BE WINE WISE, CHOOSE PENFtDLDS WINEMAKERS SINCE 1844
. i
Pw 'V*Tt; xk~ cUVtt
WwtcA&nittNt
*. 9
PWUO3


AROUND MELBOURNE
The Last Swill
Victoria puts its clock hack ... to October, 191 6
Tt is difficult to -get rid of the ugly
suspicion that it is all -a plot and
that it cannot happen. After all, there
are few of us around who can remem-
ber what it was like before six o’clock
closing; 11.30 p.m. closing came in
1906,'9.30 p.m. closing came in 1915,
and then the ultimate blow, 6 o'clock
closing, hit us on October 25, 1916.
The Premier at that time, Sir Alex-
ander Peacock, was reported as say-
ing that this measure would protect
the soldiers from the demoralising
effects of drunkenness. In Russia, he
said, vodka was prohibited, and in
France the use of absinth had been
forbidden.
Curiously enough, I have never
seen other references to this. The
French certainly got back their
absinth in quick time without having
to wait 49 years, and what about the
Russians? Very likely the banning of
jVodka was the real cause of the Bol-
shevik Revolution. Be that as it may,
we are 49 years on and it all comes
to an end on February 1.
Personally I feel sad. We are
losing, perhaps, our greatest tourist
attraction. I mean, it made us unique.
Over the years great writers from the
“Saturday Evening Post”, “The
Guardian”, “Esquire”, “Holiday”,
“New Yorker”, “Time”, “Paris
Match”, all have come to Melbourne
and first up they have asked to ex-
perience the 6 o’clock swill and this
has scored us vast international pub-
licity. What do we do now? Ad-
mittedly we have Captain Cook's
Cottage and Sir Robert’s House in
Haverbrack Avenue, but frankly I
don’t feel they are as good.
And what will it do to our friend-
ship with the Riverina and NSW
ports on the Murray? Perhaps you do
not realise that every evening, come
6.15 p.m., there is a great exodus out
of Victoria. At Wodonga they go to
Albury, at Wahgunyah they go to
Corowa, at Cobram to Tocumwal, at
Echuca to Moama, at Koondrook to
Barham, at Mildura to Gol Gol and
at Swan Hill, where there’s no sister
town, the folk slip across the river
to the Federal Hotel, known as the
Old Fed. All this trade will die. The
great communion which used to exist
between the two States will cease to
be. In the interest of preserving the
Federal understanding that exists
between us, Mr Askin should con-
sider introducing, say, midnight
closing.
In Tasmania they are not unaware
of what they will lose in this regard.
The Australian Hotels’ Association,
Tasmanian branch, already has put
in a plea for 11.30 closing on Friday
and Saturday nights and for two two-
hour periods on Sundays. No doubt,
eventually, the Tasmanian Tourist
Bureau in Melbourne will put up its
signs: “ENJOY YOUR WEEKEND
DRINKING IN TASMANIA.”
Oddly enough all this has gone
through with barely a whimper. The
Country Party made a whimper for
a referendum, but then the Victorian
Country Party always whimpers.
There were several strong advertise-
ments in the newspapers. Arthur
Baker, State organiser of the Loyal
Orange Institution, put an ad. in
“The Age”, which contained in part:
“No wonder citizens fear later drink-
ing. Older folk remember late closing
before 1916. Drunks made late train
and tram travelling a nightmare.
What will prevail if 10 p.m. closing
and cafe drinking, as recommended
by Mr Phillips as sane drinking, be-
come law?” In another ad. L. J.
Hutchinson, of 16 Nimmo Street,
Essendon, said: “Consumption of beer
in NSW has increased since intro-
ducing similar legislation . . . For 25
years Victoria bad a slightly higher
consumption than NSW per head.
NSW now exceeds by 51 gallons per
bead each year.”
The legislation went through both
Houses with the utmost calm,
judging by the timidity with which
it was first broached it was felt That
every housewife in Victoria would
desert her hearth and march on
Parliament House, but this did not
happen.
There are some nice points in the
legislation. Restaurants now virtually
have a free go until midnight. Further-
more, they can sell beer. (The old-
fashioned wine licence was a strange
feature of Melburnian life. What
inspired it, I don't know. Perhaps
there was the feeling that if beer
were served in our nice restaurants,
it would attract all sorts of uncouth
people. Which was a curious idea,
considering the prices these res-
taurants charge, anyhow.) Yes, the
Continental life is coming with a rush,
liquor bars in theatres until 11 p.m.
J. C. Williamson’s at Her Majesty’s
want to have something like the
famous Crush Bar at the Covent
Carden. Maybe you have seen the
•superb old Italianate place of thick
carpets and dazzling chandeliers and
•gold-framed paintings on the walls.
The JCW Crush Bar would be up-
stairs in the foyer and the plan is to
serve food before and during the
show . . . sandwiches and other light
stuff apart from the liquor. The big
pubs out in the suburbs are prepar-
ing for the new night life, lining up
crooners, long-haired guitar players,
supper menus. Then, meanwhile, to
give a sobering effect, the Govern-
ment has passed a Bill designed also
to begin on February 1 a limit of
.05 per cent blood alcohol content for
motorists. First conviction £5O,
second conviction £lOO and one
month's gaol.
I don’t know whether I can stand
it. Melbourne is losing its beautiful
funereal calm. I think I will move to
Adelaide. That’s the only place left.
Think of no TAB, no Sunday movies,
no one-armed bandits, and six o’clock
closing. There’s only one catch. It is
rumored over there that in a referen-
dum they overwhelmingly voted in
favor of a lottery. Adelaide is going
to the pack like the rest of us.
BATMAN


Every
office
should have
one...
Mi
mm
‘
V:. •
ft."
. . . an NCR Class 12 adding machine that is. NCR
has something new in portable, electric adding
machines. A real lightweight, weighing only 10
pounds with a compact Bxl2 inch frame. Most
people wonder how such a small machine can do a
BIG job. The answer is simple. It has many features
of larger, heavier, more expensive adding machines.
A stair-step keyboard, correction lever, digit indi-
cator, transparent tear-off blade, non-add and sub-
total bars, and $99,999,999.99 adding capacity.
You’ll like the price of the Class 12, too. ONLY £7B.
For more information, contact your local NCR repre-
sentative —he’ll bring a Class 12 right to your desk.
• * Jy ~-
- < « i'jfe
\.V
SiaiPlNG AUSTRALIA CHANGE TO DECIMAL CURRENCY
THE NATIONAL CASH MOISTE* CO. PTT. LT9.


AROUND BRISBANE
Building for
God and Mammon
By bread and Presbyterianism alone
By JAN SMITH
Outwardly, the old town looked
much the same, enormous stone
Victorian offices to house the
Government files, a couple of solid
bridges with miles of ornate railings, and,
of course, the City Hall in all its Roman
Empire splendor. But scarcely had a day
passed when one realised, across the
breakfast pineapple juice, that good old
Brisbane had not been slacking.
There it was in black and white in
the “Courier-Mail” —a gimmick of such
staggering proportions as to make even
a smug Sydneysider feel a little ashamed.
Why hadn’t we thought of it a giant
Colored-water fountain right in Civic
Square, playing “Waltzing Matilda”, not
just in the lunch hour, but a whole
patriotic 24 hours a day?
It couldn’t be true, but then Mr Peter
de Witt, Deputy Chairman of the Bris-
bane Fountains Committee, must surely
know what he was doing. By next morn-
ing the suggestion had sparked off a
lovely row Two Will Not Have Bar
of Matilda” said the headline, with
town planner Karl Langer and orchestra
conductor Rudolf Pekarek in full cul-
tural protest. There was a letter to the
Editor, and a leader declaring that, bad
as Brisbane’s City Fathers might be, the
punishment of perpetual “Matilda” was
clearly in excess of their crimes.
Even in his old home town of Prague,
Mr Pekarek told us, the Communists had
not stooped to such tortures. There were
little clockwork figures, and he’d once
seen a cat playing a fiddle in a Hobart
arcade, but it certainly wasn’t for 24
hours a day. In fact, it had been quite
charming. But if ever an idea was
guaranteed to drive tourists out of the
city, instead of into it, “Matilda” was it.
At the Johnstone Gallery, Brian John-
stone viewed the business lightheartedly.
Admitting that while there was a lot of
"Of course, my wife doesn't understand me -she wouldn't let me leave
Brisbane if she did!"
" We're the friendliest damned State
in Australia—and don't you forget
it, sport!"
abysmal taste among the Queensland
Establishment he waved vaguely in ;a
westerly direction —he was confident
that the idea would fizzle out.
But to Brisbane people who walk
through City Square, the “Waltzing Mat-
ilda” fountain is a minor threat com-
pared with the growing disaster area
where the buildings facing City Hall are
falling to make way for extensions to the
Square. As staunch Republicans once
spoke of Roosevelt as That Man, so in-
dignant ratepayers grumble about the
sweeping, and expensive, plans of Lord
Mayor Jones. “He's nothing but a dic-
tator,” said a staunch Indooroopilfy
matron.
She pointed indignantly to two large
supporting beams propping up the rear
of the Ann St r eet Presbyterian Church
Hall, which stood on the brink of a vast
excavation. The hall isn’t a major piece
of religious architecture (it is part of
what Brisbane’s younger generation calls
Wowser Street, which contains the Can-
berra Hotel, the People’s Palace and a
Presbyterian Church) but let a brick fall
and Mr Jones will catch it for sacrilege
as well.
Whether the hall survives or not, its
present predicament is only another in-
dication that religious building has a
sorry record in Brisbane, and worship-
pers’ dreams of a cathedral city are a
Jong way from fruition. The fate of the
Roman Catholic Holy Name Cathedral
at The Valley is legend, its glorious be-
ginnings overgrown with weeds for many
years and gleefully pointed out by the
passing Protestants. But God is nothing
if not fair, and, until recently, the
Anglicans had done only slightly better
with St John’s, a massive 14th-century
French Gothic edifice whose unfinished
nave has long been a thorn in the
diocesan flesh.
Money has been held in trust for its
completion, augmented every now a«d


"Sir, within, this bottle lies the secret of the rich tranquillity which was
Fairweather's unique contribution to Australian painting -'Mosgo'
mosquito repellent!"
then by donations,-and this year work
has begun on 30 squares of extension.
It’s a comparatively modest extension, to
cost £650,000, and be faithfully executed
in the original style by imported English
masons, but according to Brisbane archi-
tect John Dalton it’s a sinful waste. Mr
Dalton, a progressive young man who
claims at least an Anglican upbringing,
wrote to the papers pointing out that, in
cost per square foot, the Cathedral ad-
dition would cost nearly three times as
much per square as the Sydney Opera
House £21,000 per square as against
£6OOO.
“When you think of the way Anglican
hospitals like St Martin’s, right beside St
John's, are starved for money, it seems
ridiculous,” Dalton said. But his terse
letter brought only the expected replies,
to the effect that comparing a French
Gothic cathedral with the Opera House
was like comparing fine china with
earthenware mugs. “All this talk about
the glories of the past and its uplifting
spiritual qualities is bunk,” said Dalton.
“At the Toronto Conference of Anglican
Church leaders, three years ago, they
were definitely against fine houses of God
at the expense of missions. Apparently
it hasn’t sunk through to Australia’s
Anglicans.”
Dalton subsequently debated with the
Diocesan Registrar on the ABC television
show “Week”, only to find that late-
minute slotting had put him immediately
after Barry Humphries, who took the
opposite view.
“Nothing could have been more for-
tunate for our cause,” related Dean Bad-
deley over an eleven o’clock sherry at
the next-door deanery. “Barry had been
here for dinner that evening, you see,
and knew all about it. ‘I hear there’s a
plan afoot to finish the Cathedral in
laminex and have pink plastic gladdies
on the altar,’ he said, and naturally we
were thrilled.
“It’s quite ridiculous to say the money
would be better spent on hospitals,” the
Dean said. “The Cathedral is a magni-
ficent building and it simply has to be
finished the way it was started, regard-
less of cost. Man doesn’t live by bread
alone, after all.”
Not by bread alone, buE in Brisbane
almost. Halva, goat yoghurt and do-
bosch cake all the delights of the
delicatessen are virtually unknown.
Even in a big shopping centre like Myers,
at Coorparoo, one sees only honest
British fruit cake and sponges iced in
traditional passionfruit
Visiting gastronomes are urged to try
a seafood restaurant in South Brisbane
called Burly Ma’s, which sets the gastric
juices racing with visions of a buxom
motherly soul (a first cousin, perhaps,
to Momma Luigi) dispensing the famous
mud crabs until the obliging native
writes the name as Burleigh Marr’s.
Women, however, do not seem to go
there (there was one other, in a room
of some 50 businessmen) and at the hotel
next door, where one goes to buy hock,
the publican hurried out to attend to us
on the pavement, possibly fearing an in-
vasion of his public bar by two militant
feminists.
Gracious eating and drinking has not
reached the cult proportions of Sydney
and Melbourne. Although there are few
restaurants, there are a number of wine
and food societies, notably the Beefsteak
and Burgundy Club, and an all-women
retaliatory group called The Dinner At
Eight Club, which meets monthly at
selected hotels and restaurants, and
joins its male counterparts only at Christ-
mas.
There are still cries that Brisbane is a
frontier town, that women are kept in
the suburbs to moulder among the bau-
hinia trees. Kindergartens are scarce,
"The ladies' auxiliary is raising funds for a carillon which will peal ' Beautiful,
beautiful Queensland'."


An investment in
prestige motoring witH
gilt-edged security
TMmmmm
S:
:7.. ■
.
Dodge Phoenix
V 8 automatic ..power steering ..power braises
Dodge Phoenix is the car that provides you with prestige motoring,
and does so very handsomely. At the same time it lets you enjoy
long lasting value which is rare in this type of vehicle. It is a car
advanced in design. Its panelwork and furnishings are superbly
crafted. It is trimmed and equipped luxuriously, completely.
Performance, safety and handling ease are out-
standing in its field. If you are looking for a prestige'
car with a built in future—consider Dodge now.
Your Dealer will be glad to place one at your
disposal for your thorough consideration.
£2775
TAX INCIUDEO
mtr5
& -
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIA LTD.


T
m
m
fm
m
M
\* * /
frcetwU’for /Jfe*
Friends’ Provident the name to remember when you’re thinking of
assurance the Office with the personal approach, who have advised
on Life Assurance for more than 130 years.
Group Funds Exceed £200,000,000
QgP
FRIENDS’ PROVIDENT
AND CENTURY LIFE OFFICE
Head Office For Australia: “Century House” 70 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
N.S.W. Country Branches at Newcastle, Orange and Wagga Wagga.
Chairman: Lieut-General Sir John Northcott, K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., C.B.
Deputy Chairman: Major-General Sir Denzil Macarthur-Onslow, C.B.E. D. 5.0., E.D.
F.P.IC
and a skilled woman worker can expect
to get a salary even farther below the
male salary than she would get in
Sydney. Miss Barbara Reid, Queens-
land’s top medical student for 1965, had
spoken out about sex prejudice in the
medical profession, and teachers (mar-
ried) are laid off at Christmas and re-
hired in March to avoid holiday pay.
Surfers Paradise, oddly enough, gets
some blame for the lack of change.
“It’s a sort of moral safety-valve,” said
an exiled Sydney cartoonist. In analogous
terms, Brisbane is the upright Victorian
wife —Surfers the very necessary chorus
-girl.
And what has happened to the Bris-
bane women who chained themselves to
a hotel bar back in March? The leader
of the drinkers, Mrs Merle Thornton,
said they hadn’t been idle, although there
had been no recent drink-ins. “We still
object to being lumped in with Abo-
rigines, minors and insane people,” she
said, these being the categories a publi-
can is not allowed to serve in a public
bar under Queensland’s Liquor Act.
“They've struck out - Aborigines, but
we’re still in there with the insane per-
sons, and Mr Delamothe won’t do any-
thing about it.”
Mrs Thornton, a philosophy tutor, is
now ; president of the newly formed Equal
Opportunities for Women Association,
pressing for a better deal for women in
the State Public Service, especially
married teachers, many of whom, she
claims, are living in sin to protect their
careers.
A few days later, meeting American
sociologist Christine Breden at a party,
one wished Mrs Thornton had been on
hand. “I'm just dying to get a job here
in one of your quaint bars,” said Miss
Breden, who is lecturing at Queensland
University and preparing a report on
Australian social customs. Miss Breden
was eager to crash the sex barrier she
knew back home in New York, where
bartenders are strictly male. “I feel I’d
learn such a lot,” she said. “In New
York, you see, the only bars without
women drinkers are for homosexuals.”
Queensland’s passion for social apar-
theid was also bewailed by Shirley
Baddeley, the pretty wife of Brisbane’s
famous Dean. On this particular day
the Dean was bound for a stag luncheon
at the Cricket Club —“the food’s even
better than it is at the races'’, he purred
and Mrs Baddeley could be excused
for feeling deprived. “I’m sick and tired
of arriving at luncheons and being
shooed off with a lot of women,” she
said.
“I know it must be difficult with a
Dean’s wife,” she said, “but I wish men
here would flirt a little more and not
look at the carpet when they’re talking
to you.”
Medieval, primitive, lethargic and
apathetic are the most-heard adjectives
in Queensland. Mrs Magda Wollner, a
charming, petite Czech woman who
came here 15 years ago with her hus-
band Igor to run The Old Vienna
Restaurant, maintained that Brisbane
was not really much more than a suburb
of Newcastle. “Brisbane could be the
San Francisco of Australia,” she be-
lieved, “but it won’t happen in my life-
time.”
Lack of big money, she says, is a
major hindrance. “Brisbane’s the place
you send a branch manager to for a
couple of years while you send him
instructions from Vaucluse,” she said.
“If the branch manager has any am-
bition he winds up in Vaucluse, too. It’s
just a stepping-stone as far as big busi-
ness goes.
“I've given up trying to convert
people over 30,” Mrs Wollner went on,
“but I tell the young ones to get out if
they ever hope to amount to anything.”
The young ones who take the advice
are usually poets, writers, actors,
musicians, and the bright young ABC
man who chafes in exile. The Old
Vienna is true to its name—orchestra
conductor Rudolf Pekarek goes there,
and Brisbane’s tiny handful of Central
European intellectuals find their way
there sooner or later. For the young
creative person, it is Europe, culture
and dreamland, a tiny, flourishing piece
of cake in a land where people live by
bread and Presbyterianism.


THE INTELLIGENT WOMAN’S GUIDE
A Cooker-writer Worth His Salt
Mr Robert Carrier, as he says,
“the highest paid cooker-writer in
England and perhaps the world”,
was finalising his dinner engagements.
Harry’s Cafe de Wheels, Woolloomooloo,
at 7.30 p.m Pies and peas, of course.
Arranged by a Sunday newspaper.
What you lose from the fork you pick
up with the spoon. The next night it was
to be dinner at the Chevron, Kings
Cross, with the Wine and Food Society.
Lobster with cream sauce. Saddle of
lamb stuffed with mushrooms, veal and
liver. Apricot sorbet. French and Aus-
tralian wines. Reported in the daily
Press.
Mr Carrier, a 42-year-old American
working in England, is in Australia pro-
moting his newest publication, “The
Robert Carrier Cookbook”, Australian
price £lO 10s. a copy. Australia is used
to any number of overseas visitors pro-
moting something or other. But the fact
that Mr Carrier was here to promote a
cookbook proves something about its
author —and about the sale of cookbooks.
He is obviously a shrewd promoter. He
understands the power of the person-
ality cult and he projects an attractive
personality full of boundless enthusiasm
for eating food, cooking food, talking
about food, reading about food. Even
so, many a publisher might think that a
cooker-writer’s place is in the kitchen,
not out selling his wares, but Mr Carrier
is an exceptional cooker-writer. Any
publisher would be glad to have him
even if he wanted to eat his way to the
moon and back.
His first book, “Great Dishes of the
World”, sold 30,000 at 85s. stg. a
copy before Christmas, when it was
published two years ago, and has since
been translated into five languages. This
present one sold 21,000 at £6 6s. stg. a
copy before publication.
You can understand why he is such a
rich cooker-writer when you add the
royalties from these to the money he
would _ make out of his articles for
“Vogue”, “Harpers Bazaar”, and “The
Sunday Times”, plus his PR business and
several consultancies.
However, when he started writing for
the glossies his articles often cost him
more in materials than they paid. “No-
body’s ever left me any money,” he
said. “I make a lot and I spend a lot. I've
been drastically broke twice in my
career.” But, thanks to a dinner he cook-
er for the editor of the British “Harpers
Bazaar” a few years ago, he started off
his role as cooker-writer. A sort of gravy-
beef-to-fil let-steak success story.
Mr Carrier’s kitchen in his house in
Islington is his workshop. There he has
a gas range, a charcoal grill and an elec-
tric oven. And on the principle of a good
workman having good tools, he has his
oven temperature tested every six weeks.
Like getting the piano tuner in.
Grilling is a problem he thinks all
cooks have to face up to. Most domestic
grillers, he says, just don't get the heat
hot enough—if they did the griller would
be ashes before you even got the meat
under it.
“In French restaurants they have
flames this high,” he spread his hands a
good two feet apart, “in big stoves with
concentric rings.” They’re probably
similar to the fuel stoves you still find in
country kitchens.
But, of course, people will continue to
grill meat at home and Mr Carrier’s hint
for a special flavor is to toss a couple of
curls of dried orange peel on to the grill-
er. “Just cut the peel from the orange
and leave it to dry for a couple of days.”
Mr Carrier sampled Australian beef
while he was here and he didn’t think
much of it. Most butchers would agree
with him, what with the drought and all.
(The crayfish, on the other hand, he said,
was magnificent—but the drought is
scarcely a problem there.)
He agrees that if you’re looking for a
national Australian dish you should start
your thinking with lamb. “Although the
Australian lamb we get in England is not
as good as the New Zealand lamb which
is younger, fresher, moister. Somebody
should do something about the lamb that
is exported, although I hear you do have
very good lamb here.”
He suggests Moroccan shoulder-of-
• lamb for a change. You season the meat
with powdered cumin, salt and paprika,
wrap it in a tea-towel and cook it in a
double boiler —or in a big colander in a
steamer —for a good three hours. In the
water —which doesn’t touch the meat
because it is a steamed not a boiled dish
—you put three bay leaves and nine and
a half teaspoonfuls of cumin. When it’s
done you serve with coarse sea salt.
Although Mr Carrier has a theatre
background—as an actor and the director
of the American theatre in Paris—and he
has been offered three restaurants to run
in the last three months, the idea of
combining theatre and restaurants hor*
rifles him. “If you’re going to eat, you
should give all your attention to the
food. If you’re going to look at a play or
something—beer and a sandwich.”
When you’re talking food with an ex-
pert, inevitably the conversation gets
around to tinned and frozen food. I con-
fessed to Mr Carrier that, in spite of the
beautiful pale green leafy artichoke
decorating the glossy jacket of his new
book, I found artichokes taste better out
of a tin. He registered polite disbelief but,
as I reeled off two or three names of ex-
perts whose recipes I had followed, he
had to agree that maybe I just liked
tinned artichokes better than the fresh
ones.
Mr Carrier doesn’t consider that he
writes well, which maybe is why he is
what he is. He is too critical to let him-
self get stale.
He still has a lot of cooking-writing
waiting on the hob. “A labor of love”
first, the Curnonsky-Carrier cookbook,
for which Mr Carrier is compiling the re-
cipes of the late Prince Curnonsky, the
prince of French gastronomes and “the
greatest cooker-writer of the last 100
years”. It is not a bad tribute coming
from another cooker-writer, for although
Taillevent, the first of the great cooker-
writers, was writing at the end of the
eighteenth century he didn’t have very
much competition for the first hundred
years or so. But, with all those post-war
cookbooks out of their publishers’ ovens,
Taillevent could scarcely be described as
the first of the few.
Then there’s a book of recipes from
the world’s great restaurants, and Mich-
elin’s “Best French Food” —the first time
recipes with the stamp of the famous
French food-guide will have been pub-
lished.
Writing cookbooks is a sort of escap-
ism. Mr Carrier claims to be a romantic,
an escapist. Travel writing is another
form of escapism that he keeps in mind
—as an escape, perhaps, from writing
cookbooks. After all, there must be a
limit to the number of high-priced Rob-
ert Carrier cookbooks, each weighing
more than the average family weekend
roast, that any one bookcase can carry.
And after he has finished a stint of
travel writing he is toying with the idea
of getting into the fiction field. Escap-
ism, of course. But so far feelers have
just produced a loud belly-laugh from his
publishers. Not surprising when his
tentative title for a venture into the world
of suspenseful terror is “Tales That Turn
My Stomach”.
MYFANWY GOLLAN


SHOW WINES
YOU
CAN BUY FROM YOUR
HOTEL, CLUB,
RESTAURANT OR
LICENSED RETAILER.
Lindeman’s Show Record for the
second year in succession Lindeman’s
were awarded the trophy for The
Most Successful Exhibitor at the Aus-
tralian Championship Wine Show
1965 Royal Melbourne Show—l 964
Adelaide Wine Show.
is'
PRIVATE BIN WINES
PRIVATE BIN MOSELLE BIN 11,
VINTAGE 1964
A light, fragrant wine with a soft, fruity,
appealing palate, made from Riesling
grapes grown in the Hunter River and
Clare Valleys. Awarded SILVER MEDAL
1964 Adelaide Championship Wine Show,
BRONZE MEDAL 1965 Sydney Show, in
the Table Dry White Export classes.
PRIVATE BIN CLARET BIN 45,
VINTAGE 1963
This wine was made from Red Hermitage
grapes grown in the Hunter River, Clare
and Goulburn Valleys, and is a product
of Lindeman's "Ben Ean" Cellars where it
was matured in small oak casks. Bin 45 is
a lightish Claret with a strong, attractive
flavour and an easy-to-drink character. It
is an ideal .accompaniment to all meat
dishes, and may be safely binned away
for many years.
Christmas
Reflections
Show wines
By CELLARMASTER
Ihave just been reading Oscar
Mendelsohn’s new book “The
Dictionary of Drink and Drink-
ing” (Macmillan, Melbourne, 645.). It
must have been a tremendous task to
put this together and he has done wonder-
fully well. He has attempted to define
all alcoholic beverages from absinth to
zinfanbel together with a Fort Knox of
facts about drinkers and drinking.
There are inaccuracies “New
Zealand makes only a little wine in the
Auckland region of the North Island”.
(What about McWilliams and the others
at Hawkes Bay?) And there are in-
sufficiencies—one of the great vineyards
of the world, La Tache, is dismissed in
six words, while nearly a hundred are
wasted on talk about darts.
But one can forgive much when
Mr Mendelsohn, in his introduction,
states: “I can claim confidently that
this book contains errors and omissions
sufficiently large in number and flagrant
in nature ta_satisfy the most enthusiastic
of my enemies. The plain fact is that the
subject is too vast for any person to be
its full master. Gaffes are inevitable.”
I do recommend the wine enthusiast to
buy it.
\Tany people still complain they can-
not buy Show wines. To some
extent this is true. Some of the still table
wines that are shown in the Open
Classes are products of a certain set of
jconditions occurring at a certain time.
|For example, the McWilliams 1954
Richard Hermitage. There is only enough
of this magnificent wine to show and
consequently there has lately been none
available for sale.
But the commercial wines are win-
ning more and more prizes and many
of these prizes are in the quantity classes
which stipulate that several thousand
gallons of the wine be available.
Let me give you some idea. Burings
are making some distinguished white
wines nowadays in the heart of the
Barossa Valley. The ’63 Rhine Riesling
was a double medal winner and at the
last Adelaide Show they won three golds
With their Hock, Moselle and Riesling,
all vintaged this year and all available
for sale under the Chateau Leonay Vin-
tage label. Their big brother, Linde-
mans, always seems to have great wines
ready for sale, especially in the whites.
These wines win prizes year after year,
and as soon as one is sold out another
vintage comes along as good as ever. On
retail shelves at the moment are the
1930 Riesling (bin, not vintage), Bin
2222 Riesling, Bin 2240 White Bur-
gundy and Bin 36 Sauternes, all Hunter
wines, all Golds.
McWilliams have dominated recent
Shows. In 1964 such basic lines as
Lovedale Riesling, Rosedale Claret and
Dry Friar Sherry took top awards to-
gether with the more complex Anne
Rieslings of ’62 and ’63. This year the
Mount Pleasant Riesling won a gold in
Adelaide and three private bins, the 76
Riesling, 635 Hunter Riesling, and 35
Claret all got gilded in Brisbane and
will soon be released for sale.
There are some excellent vermouths
for sale at prices well below the much
advertised overseas products. Both Yal-
umba and Tintara do well in the French
(or Dry) classes and Hamiltons in the
Italian vermouth class. They have all
won gold medals this year in these
categories. Marco Dry Vermouth,
made by Angoves at Renmark, has an
even bigger success story.
Hamiltons Special Reserve Sauternes
also takes its share of the top awards
and is freely retailed. Penfolds win
many top medals and cups for table
wines today, though some are in small
quantities only.
Among other companies’ wines for
sale today that have scored at Shows
are: the Kaiser Stuhl Clarets of 1962
(Adelaide '62 and Sydney ’64) and 1963
(Adelaide 1964); Yalumba Galway Pipe
(Melbourne ’65); Stonyfell Vintage Port
(Sydney ’65 among others); and Seppelts
White Burgundy (Adelaide ’65) and Long
Neck Brandy. In fact, almost all the
brandies I mentioned in my last column,
Thomas Hardy, St Agnes, Seppelts and
Mildara Pot Still, win prizes again and
again. Mildara also carry this success
through, particularly into the claret
classes, and almost every Cabernet Shiraz
blend of each year seems to finish up
covered with glory. Hardys do particu-
larly well with some of their tawny ports;
one that comes to mind which I enjoyed
last week in a restaurant is the 1943
Show Tawny Bin 255. Orlando also do
well with tawnies (two golds this year)
and, of course, we can't forget our dear
old mate Barossa Riesling, made entirely
from Rhine Riesling. This was the
original cold fermentation white, and
the style is repeated year after year
under that simple name, no bin num-
bers, no fuss.
All these are available. Merry Christ-
mas! Good King Wenceslaus said:
“Bring me food and bring me wine.
You can keep the pine-logs.”


Qui, of the five 50'ton Haulpaks with specs' r,<de dump bodies used tor iron are haulage at Cockatoo island, W.A.
vs* ' „ '
■
m
m
m
mm
.. V'i
mm
]
%**?
W"m
mi
M ||||p ~&&<
- ~>, aA 'M ■ * ±\
mmmmmmsm
* *■ ;
••• . - : :
WITH 1 MIGHT IF
LW
The mighty Haulpak Rear, Side and Bottom Dumps are made in
Australia to exacting job requirements and backed by the
specialised technical services of the world-wide LeTourneau-
Westinghouse organisation. Australian-built LW Haulpaks can and
do cope with the toughest jobs under the most difficult conditions
throughout Australia and overseas.
Here are a few of the major projects on which Australian-made
Haulpak Trucks are used: ■ HYDRO-ELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION,
SNOWY MOUNTAINS ■ IRON MINING, W.A. ■ CEMENT PLANT, N.Z.
■ COPPER MINING, MT. ISA, OLD. ■ BAUXITE MINING, OLD.
■ RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION, W.A. ■ DAM CONSTRUCTION, N.Z.
■ PYRITE MINING, S.A.
m
£ for EXPORT
First earthmoving equipment manufacturer !• receive the Award
♦or Outstanding txport Achievement.
LeTOURNEAU-WESTINIHOUSEPTY.LTD.
SOUTH STREET, RYDALMERE, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA*
Specialised Sa/es, Service and Parts facilities inr all States.
LW249.106


OVERSEAS
DE GAULLE
The Man Behind the Mystery
By WILLIAM MILLINSHIP
“He is like a man taking his statue for a walk,” a fellow officer said of Charles
de Gaulle before the war. The statue still stalks beside the President of France. The
man himself has aged, his hair thinned and whitened. Now silver, the wispy moustache
is well-nigh invisible. The elephant eyes have sunk into wrinkled pouches behind the
huge nose. A big appetite and little exercise have developed a prominent paunch that
the tent-like, double-breasted suits cannot hide. He moves with a ponderous roll, his
head swinging from side to side, as if his body had the consistency of marble.
The statue, unpromoted and undecor-
ated since 1940, is still that of the acting-
brigadier who sprang up ready-made at
the age of 49 to claim the legitimate
leadership of France. Then, with granite
stubbornness (“I was too weak to com-
promise”) and through sheer force of
character, he saved his country from
total humiliation, and won it a place
among the world powers after the war.
This alone was enough to put him among
the great names of French history. The
comparison with Joan of Arc is more
than a joke.
De Gaulle consciously fashioned the
legendary figure on the lines of the ideal
Jeader he described in “Le Fil de l’Epee”
in 1932. He talks about it in the third
person as if it has an independent exis-
tence. How else can one rationalise the
superb cheek of a man who not only
speaks for France but for 25 years has
calmly assumed he is France? Not even
the most slavish of his many panegyrists
can match the extravagant reverence of
de Gaulle on de Gaulle. Of his retire-
ment in 1946, he says in his memoirs,
“With de Gaulle went that wind from
the heights, that hope of achievement
and that ambition for France which up-
held the national soul.”
The most remarkable thing about the
recent election in France is that de
Gaulle has brought the General to the
level of politicians, in a contest for the
votes of ordinary men and women. It
was a hard decision. The risk of dam-
aging his already established historical
image, more than anything else, made
him hesitate. He has always feared the
effects of old age, but weighed the
lessons of ZTarshal Petain’s disastrous
senility against Konrad Adenauer’s frus-
tration after stepping down.
Till now he has been the man of
exceptional and stirring times. He groom-
ed himself for the role. He talked long
ago of “the melancholy of ordinary days”.
He is at his best in moments of crisis
and disaster. He is no Napoleon. He has
neither the thirst for military conquest
(he dismantled the French Empire) nor
Napoleon's genius for administration
(how much of the Fifth Republic will
survive him?). And he twice resisted
openings for dictatorship.
The name and its History, with a
capital “H”, should be enough. “You
know me,” the most secretive of states-
men assured his electors. Everyone by
now has seen him on television. A high
proportion of French citizens has
shaken his hand at least once
during his frequent “crowd
baths” over the past seven years.
Some may remember, from the
days of the OAS assassination
plots, that his blood group is
O-rhesus positive. Few people
know the man well.
He has no intimate friends.
He stands on ceremony. His
cool, austere manner keeps even
those he trusts at a distance.
His attitude “of a king in exile”
irritated the military academy
examiners in 1913. It is now his
natural pose. He probably does
have a special affection for his
Premier, Georges Pompidou,
and for Andre Malraux, the
stage-manager of Gaullist pomp and
spectacle, but he is said to put the greatest
trust in his Foreign Minister, Couve de
Murville, who is even more glacial than
himself.
He keeps sentiment and personal feel-
ings under iron control. Gratitude for
loyal service would never stop him dis-
missing a Minister who had outlived his
usefulness.
Yet he has mellowed with age. To his
habitual old-world courtesy he has added
a warmer interest in the personal lives
of those around him. He has taken to
sending flowers to Ministers’ wives when
they have babies. He slips out of the
Elysee Palace to have dinner with a top
aide who is leaving his service. He no
longer practises the gratuitous snub. In
Cairo, in 1944, a hundred Algerian Mus-
lims begged for at least a glimpse of their
hero. When an aide urged him to appear
at a window, de Gaulle dismissed him
with “Voits m’emmerdez”, and went on
writing. These days he shows more re-
gard for other people’s feelings.
Relaxing with a small, trusted group,
he can be charming, witty, even gay,
using earthy Army language and the
French equivalent of four-letter words.
In larger gatherings, his language is more
restrained since last summer a long-eared
journalist overheard him refer coarsely
to “Europeans” as “ jean-foures” .
He can be quietly humorous at his
own expense. Touring the provinces this
year, he confided to his entourage “Fna
looking forward to Mass tomorrow—it’s
the only public place where I’m not ex-
pected to make a speech.” Otherwise his
humor is on the heavy side. His idea
of a leg-pull is to say of a Minister,
“Splendid fellow, you can ask anything
of him —except run a Government de-
partment.” Flashes of the old sarcasm
warn against responding over-enthusias-
tically to the General’s genial moods.
De Gaulle is utterly calm in times of
crisis, but his anger can be roused over
a botched detail or a serious political
blunder. But his anger now is calculated
and controlled. He rarely bawls people
out as he did during the war. He
may not even have offenders
brought before him. But the icily
polite, cutting notes he sends
them are equally feared. He is
the unquestioned boss. He listens
to advice, and can take criticism,
but his whole manner discour-
ages it. By nature and discipline,
he is intimidating.
After a tete-a-tete with a visit-
ing head of Government, the
French Ministers waiting to play
their silent part in the final dis-
cussion visibly stiffen as the
master appears. On one of the
General's provincial tours this
year several Ministers joined
him for lunch on a train. M.
Pompidou presided at one table, M.
Malraux at another; de Gaulle sat alone,
placed so that he could join in the con-
versation if he chose to.
The General despises lackeys, but,
while respecting men who stand up to
him, he prefers not to have them around.
He is ready to employ politicians when
they suit his immediate purpose, but he
normally picks “technicians” and former
civil servants he can trust to run things
his - way without fuss or argument.
He rules France from a gilt desk top-
ped with red leather in a first-floor office
overlooking the gardens of the Elysee
Palace. Facing him beyond a crystal
chandelier is a tapestry showing “Don
Quixote cured of his madness by Wis-
dom”. There are three telephones on a
low table beside his desk, but he hardly
ever uses them. When he wants to speak


Business travel
gets a new lift
this way
Send your export figures UP by
a little on-the-spot investigating in
South Africa on your next round-
world trip! South Africa is prosperous
—expanding—a rich potential market
for many Australian products. And
further along the route, more new,
undeveloped export markets abound.
Flying to U.K./Europe via South
Africa is rich in travel enjoyment, too.
Spend a few days seeing the big game
in Kruger National Park, marvel at
the scenery, the peoples, fabled cities
such as Johannesburg, Capetown,
Pretoria.
Stopover if you wish at Lisbon,
Madrid and other great European
capitals at little or no extra air fare.
The cost? Flying this way, from
a mere £15.10.0 extra in air fares,
depending on your departure point.
Rewarding in many ways, this
way. See your travel agent.
LONDON
ATHENS^
\
'V\ FRANKFURT/
W\\ »k N
\\\\
\ W\ ROME*
\ \i|ZURIc(l
\ v /
\/HiPARISr
/■^MADRID
‘lMoh/
H
// /
H i
II /
// /
i/ /
i " /
"i
"/
Hr
Ilf
Uf
ill
i w
Ull
VII
II
II
II
I
I
if LUANDA
SALISBURY
l
!
I
/\
*
JOHANNESBURG
.MAURITIUS
V PERTH
X
SAASO/R/19
mm
-V,
Wi v j 5
H 1
>A
'\a
V
Tivo services weekly to South
Africa, with daily connections
at Johannesburg for V.K. and
Europe. Operated by S.A.A.,
in association with Qantas,
8.0.A.C., and C.A.A.
SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
TO U.K,/EUROPE VIA THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
urgently with a Minister, he presses a
button and asks an aide to get the man
concerned to phone in. Normally, he
sends out a summons in writing. He
generally sees the Prime Minister
privately three or four times a week,
the Foreign Minister once. Others may
not be called in for months on end.
The General gives far fewer audiences
now than he did five or six years ago,
does less reading and works shorter
hours. After his prostate operation last
year he tested his own physical and men-
tal energy during his incredible tour of
the whole of South America. He did
spot-checks on his memory, asking for
the names of a string of local dignitaries
at the last moment, and tripping them
effortlessly off his tongue in the course
of a speech. He satisfied himself that
everything was working in order. A high
official, who watched the performance,
said, “His mind is a perfect piece of elec-
tronic equipment.” Since then, the Gen-
eral has conserved his strength and fail-
ing eyesight.
He rarely stays in his office after 7.30
p.m. nowadays, then settles down to
watch television. He starts the day at
about 8 a.m. with a glance at the news-
papers.
TJe is at his desk by 9.45 a.m. and
spends most of the day working on
written memos. He has daily meetings
with his four immediate advisers, headed
by Etienne Burin des Roziers, Secretary-
General of the Elysee. These head ser-
vants of the inner sanctum, together with
the technical advisers beneath them, are
a cross between a brains trust and a pro-
tective screen. They are almost a shadow
cabinet of technocrats. Theoretically
they are intermediaries between the
President and different Government de-
partments. But they are better informed
than many Ministers. All diplomatic
telegrams pass through their hands, and
they know what's in the General's cor-
respondence with foreign leaders.
They arrange the General’s appoint-
ments with strict attention to ceremony.
In the afternoon, two or three visitors
are ushered into the presence for an
audience of about half an hour each.
More often than not, de Gaulle listens
in utter silence, his long arms resting
heavily on his desk as if made of lead,
the fingers twitching the glasses he hates
to be seen wearing. His head jerks. His
face is a mask of boredom. But he is a
good listener. A banker who recited a
laboriously memorised proposal of some
technical complexity was staggered
when the General gave an informed
answer to all 11 points in correct order.
This fabulous memory is essential to
the magic and mystery of de Gaulle.
So is the intense, detailed preparation.


BELLS
I
Hi
[ Y<--
V* 9°
BELLS
S> ot I h It*,
11/
ywAjwjeJx
Distillers Scotland
i'' .*«*
IgHEMaSESP
111 nil 1111111111111 HllljaiWllllillliltMHWl^ l
9 9
v-:»:ivx
«©
GIFT-PACKED
FOR
CHRISTMAS
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd.
Distillers, Perth, Scotland
An Independent Company
8W9.65N
De Gaulle is never impetuous. He leaves
little to chance. Weeks before Rhodesia’s
UDI, he had decided how France should
react at the United Nations. One of his
advisers believes he would be brilliant
at the American-type cut-and-thrust
Press conference. He prefers the recited
set-piece for its weight, precision and
rarity value. He uses the Press, just as
he uses anything and anyone who suits
his purpose.
A man who should know says that
de Gaulle has grown even more
Machiavellian in old age. Compared with
his present mastery of political man-
oeuvre and sleight of hand, his wartime
performance was “pretty straight-
forward”.
For years, he confused everyone in
sight over Algeria. As a diplomatic jug-
gler he is breathtaking, drawing approval
from both Moscow and Peking, Cairo
and Tel Aviv, playing cat and mouse
with the Common Market, and keeping
everyone guessing. He impresses through
unpredictability and the illusion that he
carries more weight than his country.
"Polling his cynical, pessimistic eyes
over “the world as it is”, de Gaulle
scorns ideology as bunk. He puts his
faith in the permanence of sovereign
nation - States and the durability of
national interests. The guiding principles
»re simple—to further French prestige
tbroad and strengthen the State at
home. They leave him ample scope to
play the tactical moves by ear. His em-
piricism and secrecy put surprise on his
side. The shock tactics make France
appear more powerful than she is. They
liave won her world attention.
The General always keeps several
strings to his bow, and turns his own
weaknesses to advantage. Typically, he
made capital of his own indecision about
a second term as President. He went to
extraordinary lengths to keep up the sus-
pense to the last minute, imprisoning TV
crews and Ministers at the Elysee till
the pronouncement was on the air.
The one person who probably knew
Sn advance was Madame de Gaulle,
of cohabitation with a tall slice
of history have taught her discretion.
Even as wife of the President, she con-
trives to stay in the background and
keep the family out of the limelight.
She still does her own shopping un-
noticed, in a town where staring is in-
stinctive and unabashed.
! President Kennedy once publicly in-
itroduced himself in Paris as “The guy
who came to Europe with Jackie Ken-
nedy”. Such a remark from de Gaulle
Would be unthinkable. In the whole of
Ws memoirs he mentioned his wife only
°nce in passing. He once dismissed her
from an after-dinner political conver-
sation by simply saying “Bon soir,
Yvonne
Madame de Gaulle, daughter of a
biscuit manufacturer in Calais, has re-
mained provincial, petit-bourgeois and
narrow-minded. There have long been
rumors that she has dissuaded the Gen-
eral from promoting loyal followers
whose sexual life was not comme il faut,
There is little evidence to support this.
De Gaulle himself has a Gallic broad-
mindedness, though this necessarily ex-
cludes open scandal. He once mildly
chided an aide discovered in an illicit
bed with “If you can’t cuckold someone
in a reasonable manner, then behave
yourself”. When gossip about a Minister's
adulterous prowess reached his ears he
shrugged and said, “II fait son metier
d’homme”.
What the General must admire in his
wife is her courage. She shares all his
travels. She was with him when he nar-
rowly escaped death in the OAS ambush
in a Paris suburb. With her he shared
the pain of their daughter Anne’s long
illness and death at the age of 20. Her
brother, Jacques Vendroux, discreetly
helped out the impoverished de Gaulles
before the General’s books began to
make money.
General de Gaulle is an attentive
father and grandfather. He is naturally
interested in the naval career of his son,
Philippe. But he is not founding a
dynasty, and will leave little property
or money behind him. What he does
want to bequeath to the world is an un-
tarnished historical image, and perhaps
the fourth volume of memoirs. His
greatest achievement to date is his own
personality. Future historians may be
less impressed than his contemporaries
by his statesmanship. They will hardly
deny his greatness as a man.


'Lr
A
t
a
in
got teen age
PROBLEMS?
. <X «•'/' !
*•
©
*~> i ■ L
•% V
> ■ t
M
e
-A'
put 'em behind you
with an Evmhude[
Best way yet to tame a "teen" and
enjoy yourself at the same time is with
an "Evinrude"! If they crave speed,
your "Evinrude" will give them plenty
. . . safe, quiet, relaxing speed. If
they're straying from the family fold,
try this "togetherness" tonic. Your
wife will love it, You'll relax and enjoy
it, too. Best way to start is to see
your "Evinrude" Dealer now.
SEND FOR FREE
ILLUSTRATED
BROCHURE AND
LIST OF
AUTHORISED
“EVINRUDE”
DEALERS IN YOUR
STATE.
FIRST IN OUTBOARD MOTORS
EVINRUDE MOTORS Division of Outboard Marine
Australia Ply. Limited, 84 Canterbury Road, Banks-
town, N.S.W. Please send me free brochure.
NAME
ADDRESS...
EMSBA.IOI
The Protracted War
No permanent foothold in Asia
From GEOFFREY FAIRBAIRN in Saigon
The war in Vietnam is such a many-faceted affair that one has to keep reminding
oneself what it is all about. This is being typed in a place that should be conducive
to an understanding of the central issues: the balcony of a millionaire’s penthouse
commanding a view across the xMekong River on to the flat, green rice-plain, broken
again and again by slabs of dark green foliage, cover for guerrillas, which extends over
80 per cent of the surface of the country—a seemingly endless plain merging into the
afternoon haze on the horizon.
But one’s eye is immediately caught
by a large cargo ship slowly moving
way up-river. A facet of this complex
war is caught: Saigon cannot handle the
supply problems thrown up by the US
involvement; farther north, Camranh
Bay, where the great Russian fleet
sheltered before going to its defeat at
the hands of the. Japanese, Asia’s first
resurgent military power, over half a
century ago, is being miraculously trans-
formed into a major port and a major
base. Yet the former Ambassador to
Saigon, General Maxwell Taylor, has
just written that “we in the United
States are not seeking a permanent foot-
hold on the continent of Asia”.
Camranh Bay is clearly not being used
as a temporary staging post; it is a
massive port of permanent significance
of some kind for Vietnam. The French
never exploited what is one of Asia’s
greatest natural harbors because of the
poor hinterland. America uses it as the
pivot of a great feeder-system which in-
volves the sending out of masses of local
craft, whose seaborne economy is thereby
stimulated, to supply points along the
coast. Does this mean a permanent foot-
hold in Asia? (The specialists in specu-
lation in the Continental Hotel are
already talking of it
replacing Okinawa.)
This is not necessarily
the case. General Tay-
What about Haiphong?
lor also writes: “From the beginning
we have intended to withdraw our forces
from Vietnam as soon as they are no
longer needed.” And few people in
Saigon today would like to put a date
to that.
The US Defence Secretary, Robert S.
McNamara, delivered a fairly chill state-
ment on his arrival here when he under-
lined what everyone knew: the Vietcong
and the North Vietnamese Communists
(PAVNS) have made a serious comeback
since their mainforce units were bloodily
defeated in their purpose of trying to
divide South Vietnam and administer
the coup de grace to the sorely-tried
Vietnamese Nationalist Army (ARVINS)
during the monsoon season. A few days
before, the US Commander in South
Vietnam, General Westmoreland, had
warned that this war was going to be a
long struggle.
So much is clear; and so are the over-
all aims of the American High Com-
mand: to bring to an end the aggression
from the North, quite clearly directed
by Hanoi whether the units in question
be Vietcong or PAVNS (of that there
are no doubts entertained whatsoever
amongst experts in South Vietnam), and
to establish peace and security in South
Vietnam. But the very nature of the
war itself largely determines the kind
of ends likely to be achieved; and it is
here where a certain amount of con-
fusion is apt to enter the minds of
observers on the spot.
The war is not only many-faceted but
is being waged, by both sides, on a
number of levels. At first glance, a
student of revolutionary guerrilla war-
fare is likely to be half-persuaded that
this is no longer really a guerrilla war.
Not only are large elements of two,
perhaps three, North Vietnamese
divisions operating in South Vietnam,
but the Communists have not acted as
might have been predicted: run away to
live to fight another day. by much less
frontal methods, after the initial and
severely punishing US monsoon counter-
attacks. The assaults by mainforce units
continue, for example, in the attack on
the huge Michelin
rubber plantation,
which hitherto had
been assumed to be
regarded by the Communists as a future
asset to be preserved. Is this an act of
desperation? No one knows; or, at any
rate, journalists do not know.
What seems to be clear is this: the
fighter-bomber raids against communica-
tions and barracks and troop concentra-
tion points in North Vietnam have not
significantly stopped the steady infiltra-
tion of more units into South Vietnam.
And the air offensive being confined to
this kind of activity, heavy bombers
being only used in South Vietnam, it
could not have been expected to have
seriously weakened morale in the North.
By the same token it is pretty clear that
seaborne supplies to the Communists in
the South have not been effectively
attacked. In view of the enormous
numbers of small coastal craft, and the
prodigious task involved in searching
them all, it would be exceedingly difficult


HtVIS f®K
GOOD
c^\OKtRS
CIGM*
u V]
1
Schimmelpenninck
Con Mil Amores
(Actual size)
in tins of 10, 23/6.
ScMmmelpeimiiick
CIGARS
Holland’s finest
cigars now available
in Australia
Try Schimmelpenninck soon.
One cigar will tell you.
Schimmelpenninck cigars are imported for your
pleasure by Rothmans of Pall Mall ( Aust .)
Limited sole Australian agent for
Schimmelpenninck—Sigarenfabrieken
V/H Geurts & Van Schuppen N.V. Wagemngen
Holland.
RPMIS4
to destroy this Communist traffic with-
out destroying the seaboard economy of
South Vietnam.
So, the question is asked, what about
mining or blockading Haiphong Harbor
itself? Which in turn raises the whole
question of waging real war against the
North. But whereas the Vietnamese in-
volvement has almost certainly made the
USA less susceptible to “pressures of
world opinion”, the very statement of
US purposes, which includes a denial
of any intention to destroy the Northern
regime, militates against such moves.
This is where the nature of the w'ar
imposes its own pressures. On the sur-
face it seems to have moved from a
guerrilla war to an orthodox war of
movement and of readily intelligible
battles for areas of strategic significance.
But this is not really the case, since
within South Vietnam nothing truly
decisive can now be achieved in this
way. American policy has had to be
posited on the as-
sumption, given their
self-imposed politico-
military restrictions
What f j ipn liberation ?
" tneifl HOP O .
so far as North Vietnam is concerned,
that by blunting Communist offensive
tactics in the South they will persuade
the North that it is not worthwhile con-
tinuing their aggression.
But what is deemed worthwhile in
Hanoi quite clearly depends upon a
number of factors which are either not
easily understood in the democratic West
or which have not yet, and may not for
a long time, come into operation.
First, against most expectations,
American involvement in strength has
not drawn the USSR and China closer
together; rather the reverse, indeed. And
yet the Vietnamese Army is now the
prisoner of Chinese military technology
and logistics. Is it therefore “worth-
while” to Hanoi, as a regime of, until
recently, exceedingly expansionary ex-
pectations, to accept what Red China
construes as Moscow pressures to accept
negotiations, if those negotiations by
their very acceptance weaken Hanoi’s
links with its source of military strength?
Secondly, since the Hanoi regime is
controlled by the founders of the Com-
munist Party of Indo-China in 1930,
what kind of negotiations, short of a
totally impossible US withdrawal, could
seem to it to be “worthwhile”? After all,
this is an area where men have for many
centuries believed in a “Mandate of
Heaven” that from time to time ineluct-
ably passes into the hands of a new
dispensation—a belief with which some
aspects of Communism very neatly dove-
tail—and so, acceptance of negotiations
involving a clear US position of strength,
quite soon after Hanoi had reason to
believe that victory lay in its grasp, would
almost certainly look like an onerous
burden of a psychological kind that could
be erosive of the regime itself.
So far as the other type of factor is
concerned, one aspect is equally clearly
paramount. It is this: the response of
the PAVN cadres not only to their maul-
ing by US-Vietnamese troops but—even
more importantly in the long run —their
response to the Southern environment in
which they find themselves. There is
some reason to believe that they come
into South Vietnam believing that they
are delivering the country from an
American colonial regime. The Ameri-
cans have taken very great and com-
mendable pains to try to give the lie
to any such misapprehension. Outside
American mainforce operations, Ameri-
cans do remain advisers, sometimes with
a positively heroic dedication to this
difficult role.
The presence of highly respected Aus-
tralian and New Zealand troops helps,
out of all proportion to their numbers,
to make it clear that
not only Americans
are involved on the
Vietnamese Govern-
ment side. Some North Vietnamese
soldiers have undoubtedly been shaken
by the realities they have found in South
Vietnam. It may not only be the soldier
poet from the North whose verse to
his mother is now distributed in millions
of leaflets in the North who finds: “What
then is liberation? I searched my mind
for reasons . . . But round me, what do
I hear and see? Markets crowded and
merry, rice fields vast and green like the
sea, The sounds of bells from the pagoda
carrying their holy message, Singing
children filling the schools with their
voices loud and happy . . . From one
end of the village to the other life flow-
ing rich and full. Then why burn and
destroy? Why was I ordered to pull the
trigger that would make of a happy child
an orphan and his mother a widow?”
It would be nice to believe that the
side won whose children sang loudest
and happiest. In the very long run. this
will be so. But in the meantime, only
one thing is wholly clear: though the
Vietnamese - American alliance cannot
be defeated, the masters of “protracted
war” will in turn only be defeated by a
firmness of will, a purposeful dourness,
that will be sorely tested by the strategic
aspects of a war that even now is neces-
sarily being fought “with one hand tied
behind one’s back”. Total technological
power cannot be used in a politically
viable fashion in such a situation; only
a total human response, ranging from
helicopters and infra-red devices to text-
books and surgical teams, can ultimately
win. And such efforts are of their nature
as protracted in their effects as Mao’s
and General Giap’s prescriptions for the
will-eroding techniques of revolutionary
guerrilla warfare.


The Shirley Temple of English Art ?
Brett Whiteley's splash in the Mainstream
From ROBERT HUGHES in London
Melbury Road, W. 14, London, is a
solid street, lined with Jaguars
and moulting beeches. The Vic-
torian mansions are set a fraction back
from the pavement. A blue plaque high
in one housefront records that fact that
the famous and dotty pre-Raphaelite
painter, Sir William Holman Hunt, lived
and died there.
His house is now split up into rented
rooms, full of young Australian writers.
Holman Hunt’s studio, however, is still
in use. It is a long white room with a
steep Gothic roof. It has a small garden
with one gnarled tree, to which is nailed
a tin notice saying William Thackeray
played with his children around this tree.
The place, you might say, is drenched
in cultural history. But Holman Hunt’s
ghost is not to be seen.
One imagines it, some nights, perched
in the studio rafters: a bearded and out-
raged phantom looking at the scene
below, the big bed, the canvas chairs,
the litter of photographs, drawings, prints
of Piero della Francesca, Colin Wilson's
Encyclopaedia of Murder and John
Rothenstein’s book on Francis Bacon,
hearing the raucous voice of Bob Dylan
at full volume, smelling, on party nights,
the odor of whisky and cigarette smoke,
hashish and sweat. The studio now
belongs to Brett Whiteley.
I first met Whiteley in August, 1964,
in London. We had arranged to meet at
an august club in St James’ Street. It
was a disastrously wrong rendezvous.
The place is a caricature of English club-
land. On all sides, one may see the inert
bodies of members settling, like old
houseboats on mudflats, into the leather
armchairs. I arrived ten minutes late.
The hall porter met me. He looked
flustered. “The secretary wants to see
you, Mr Hughes,” he intoned. As if on
cue, the secretary came hurrying down
the stairs. “There is a person,” he said,
enunciating the noun as if with tongs,
“waiting for you in the bar.”
Yes, I said, that would be Mr Whiteley,
a celebrated painter from Australia.
“I don’t care who he is,” the secretary
snapped. “I want him out of here
straight away.”
“What?”
“Just go and ’ave a look at him,” the
secretary went on relentlessly, his voice
slipping under the emotional stress and
exposing a streak of Liverpool. “We can-
not permit this sort of thing in this club.
Rule 27: Members and their guests must
at all times be properly attired and con-
duct themselves with—”
I plunged through the swing doors
into the bar, a high, hushed room with
pinstripe suits, glossy collars and pink,
stiff faces, all swollen in disapproval.
By himself, in the middle of the room, in
a leather chair —I was reminded of the
instant in a Western where William S.
Hart starts fingering his gun and every-
one in the saloon backs along the wall
—sat Brett Whiteley. He was dressed in
an old blue cotton work-coat, a pair of
patched trousers with wide yellow and
black stripes, a shirt with no collar and
a pair of battered suede winklepickers.
He had a fuzz of red hair and he hadn’t
shaved for two days: and this, combined
with the brightness of his eye, gave him
the look of a small, pugnacious hedge-
hog.
“Hi, man,” he said affably. “Hey, I
had a couple of Scotches and told the
barman to put them on your bill, while
I was waiting. This,” his gesture in-
cluded the room and its occupants, “is
quite a scene, dad. Thought you meant
a jazz club. Can we talk here?”
A decisive thud
T mumbled something about a pub
A nearby. He got up. The pinstripes
glared at us. “Like this coat?” Brett
asked me. “I got a French railway porter
to flog it to me on the way through
Paris last year.”
The aged hall porter opened the door
into St James’ Street and we passed
through. It closed behind us, with a
decisive thud.
The sight of Brett Whiteley in the
club bar struck me as an allegory of the
man himself. He enjoys England but
he has never quite fitted the English. He
likes to be the wild boy in the drawing-
room. There is something about this
nuggety, bristling 26-year-old, with his
tangled conversation, eclectic mind and
terrier-like curiosity, which is unlike
most young English painters.
When I think of him at dinner with
Princess Margaret and Lord Snowdon
(“Going to the Palace tonight, dad,” he
announces, as if on his way to the
cinema) 1 think of Bennelong, the noble
savage from Port Jackson, playing the
didgeridoo for George 111. He hasn’t
even picked up English speech-patterns.
Instead, he talks in a quaint beat patois
which is five years out of date. In Lon-
don, he feels somewhat exiled: “It’s not
me. It’s just not us. I can’t see how
Australians can completely expatriate
themselves.”
Whiteley is now by far the best-known
of the young Australian painters, in Lon-
don or anywhere else. As Bryan Robert-
son reputedly said, he is the Shirley
Temple of English art. As a success story,
Whiteley’s rise is inspiriting. He was
born in Sydney in 1939. He studied
painting at Julian Ashton’s for two years,
and worked in an advertising agency.
Then, in 1960, he won the Italian travel-
ling scholarship and left for Europe. At
this point, nobody in Australia seemed
to have heard of him, though he had
shown three or four paintings at Terry
Clune's and got amiable reviews.
Whiteley landed in Italy, spent some
months in Florence, Arezzo and Siena,
and finally arrived in England early in
1961. At this time the show of Aus-
tralian painting which Bryan Robertson
mounted at the Whitechapel Gallery was
being finalised. Whiteley had not been
included. Hal Missingham, the director
of the Art Gallery of New South Wales,
was in London at the time and he visited
Whiteley’s studio.
Impressed by the big, suave, bulbous
abstracts, hovering between landscape
and figure, which Whiteley was then
painting, he took Robertson to see them.
Robertson at once selected three for the
Whitechapel show. When it opened,
Whiteley almost monopolised the English
critics’ attention. The Tate Gallery
bought one of his paintings. Whiteley
had broken in. A few months later he
was chosen to represent Australia (with
Charles Blackman and Lawrence Daws)
at the biennale des jeunes in Paris, and
he won the International Prize.
Soon afterwards he and his new wife,
Wendy (or “Queenie”), took a farmhouse
at Sigean, in the south of France. There
he painted an exhibition and held it at the
Matthiesen Gallery in 1962. (His favor-
ite souvenir of Sigean is a rusty 9mm.


Brett
Whiteley's
London
Paintings
A BULLETIN
PORTFOLIO
Portrait of John Christie. This is the first painting in the series of the London mass-
murderer by Australian artist Brett Whiteley. It was painted from a photograph of
Christie in Ludovic Kennedy's book "Ten Rillington Place". Oil on hardboard, 1964.
Necrophiliac rape: as unpleasant a subject as
any in Western art. Yet Whiteley handles it
with peculiar, detached skill and comes through
with a Gorky-like image of tragedy. Oil on
canvas, 1964.


Christie murdered Hectorina MacLennan, a London prostitute, in 1953.
Her sprawled body in the rope chair becomes a peg for what Robert
Melville, the "New Statesman's" critic, called "amusing eroticism".
Oil on canvas, 1964-65.
LEFT: Mrs Christie. A strange, dissolving image of a head. Whiteley's
debt to British artist Francis Bacon is obvious. Oil on hardboard, 1965.
BELOW: Kathleen Maloney taking gas. A brilliantly compressed image,
in which Whiteley's amiably sensual view of the human body comes
through clearly. Oil on canvas, 1965.


White sacred baboon. Painted
wood, plaster and marble,
1965.
Two giraffes, No. 1. One of a series of paintings based on animals at
the London Zoo. A sculptured neck and head of a giraffe, modelled in
plaster, is stuck to the picture. Oil on canvas, 1965.
Art student doing a drawing of
a lion. Oil on masonite with
wire netting, 1965.


as
:: C ; : ?
______
a@ai*» si
_■**«??>
& J
.....
HC
f
; -
\
i :
!
For Christmas entertaining play it cool with
rmwiLLMms
cocktails it
McWilliam’s Cocktails are the easy way to successful en-
tertaining. With the range of palate-pleasing McWilliam’s
Cocktails available, you mix long drinks as easily as this:
li oz. Cocktail, fill tall glass with cold lemonade or ginger
ale. If desired, you can embellish with ice and a slice of
lemon or cucumber rind. Serve ice cold.
s
)
SIX PALATE-PLEASING FLAVOURS TO CHOOSE FROM
Cherry, Tropical Fruit, Banana, Apricot, Manhattan,
Martini
IIVIMO3
AUH3HD
sjuumimaiD
if


pistol which he found in Nicholas de
Stael’s derelict studio.)
The Matthiesen show, which again
consisted of landscape-nude images, was
very successful and it served to put
Whiteley in the vanguard of the young
British painters. “I remember that show,”
said one of them, Tony Fry. “Whiteley
looked so interesting because he was one
of the few younger ones who really paint-
’ ed a picture through. He was facing the
formal problems that pop —English pop,
anyway—tends to sidestep.”
Whiteley’s paintings went into two
more survey exhibitions at Whitechapel,
to Kassel in Germany (which is by now
the most important of the European art
festivals, the Venice Biennale having
dissolved into a hysterical trade fair), and
to the Ist International Graphics Exhi-
bition at Darmstadt. There, competing
against most of the major European
artists, Whiteley’s Bathroom Drawing II
won the International Prize. It was one
of a series of paintings he had exhibited
earlier in 1964 in London, images of
his wife, Wendy, in the bath.
So, by the end of 1964, Whiteley was
well entrenched in London. He had
attached himself to the “mainstream” in a
way that no previous Australian painter,
except possibly Nolan, had managed to
do. Every painting of Whiteley's is a roll
in the hay with the muse of art history:
as soon as an issue about the nature of art
or perception was raised by another
painter—Gorky, De Kooning, Bacon,
Giacometti, Rauschenberg, Johnch, War-
hol, Piero della Francesca, Uccello,
Masaccio—Whiteley was into it, either
painting his way through it or arguing it
out. His intellectual appetite is matched
by no other Australian painter I’ve met.
Like Arshile Gorky, with whose early
years Whiteley’s have much in common,
his outstanding act as a painter is the
decision not to be original—not to nar-
row his style into the crippling unique-
ness of a trademark, but to keep it
open, and to preserve the flow of ideas
between his art environment and his
own experience.
“You use me the way I use Velasquez,”
Francis Bacon said to Whiteley after
seeing the Christie paintings. “I don't
know whether Brett’s going to be as good
a painter as' Arshile Gorky was,” said
Lee Krasner, the widow of Jackson
Pollock, “but he’s got the same sort
of tenacity. When he sees a painter he
admires, he meets his work head-on, and
paints straight through the middle of it.
He doesn’t try to find a way to avoid
the influence and look original.
“Think of Arshile, painting all those
Picassos in the ’thirties! It took him
twenty years to produce his own pic-
ture. But what a picture. And how
long has Brett been at it—seven?
There’s plenty of time yet for a talent
like his.”
When Whiteley first arrived in Lon-
don, he took a studio in Ladbroke
Grove, a mere 500 yards from Rilling-
ton Place—the street where Reginald
Christie lived and where, between 1943
and 1953—he murdered seven women
and a child. “I got interested in Christie
then, about 1961, I suppose. It was a
general contemplation of that aspect of
London—the mixup of races, the asphalt
pimping sort of Ladbroke Grove beer-
bottle stuff, the violence in London. I
feel very sad for a man like Christie.
He crystallises the life around him.
And life on that level is totally banal. I
know, I drank with the people who knew
Christie—the brother of one of the
girls he killed, Kathleen Maloney, for
instance. I think Christie become impor-
tant to me because he could no more
control his madness than the world can
control its energies. I feel afraid on all
levels, from Christie to the White House
BRETT WHITELEY
—on what wavelength are they work-
ing? You get the same destructive ele-
ment coming through civilisation on all
levels. Christie represents the absolute
worst, the private abyss. We have to get
over that, if we’re going to get any-
where, for a start.”
Whiteley began painting Christie in
1964. It seemed, on the face of it, an
odd choice for a young man with no
vision of evil. His previous paintings,
the nudes in the bath, had been suffused
with a radiant, and optimistic, sen-
suality. It was an art of sensations. You
could feel the weight of the body, the
turn of a muscle in the water, the
creamy texture of skin, the rounded lip
of the tub: Whiteley had summed up
his debts to Piero della Francesca and
Matisse, and turned them into sup-
remely handsome objects.
But “I lost interest in handsome
paintings”, he says. “I wanted a contra-
dictory image—one that would carry
changes of style and focus, even within
the same painting.” Whiteley calls this
stylistic shift within a picture the “click”.
“You get a dilemma set up between tw»
choices, like in a Barnet Newman, for
instance, just between two stripes on a
black ground: and it gets to the stage
where you can’t resolve that dilemma.
That seems to me the sensation of art,
like in music. You get it in people, in
human relationships; suddenly you'll see
a split millimetre of distance, a fraction
of a moment, between two people, and
it’s just as important as the tiny differ-
ence of size between the two eyes on a
Velasquez portrait.”
Whiteley’s paintings are full of such
tiny alienations: the real wire-netting
across a painted lion’s cage, the row of
boxes containing grisly emblems of
Christie (teacup, photo, cord, phallus)
above the sprawling painted body of one
of his victims, and so on.
At the same time, one gets the im-
pression that the paintings have less
to do with Christie than with the
experience of art as art. “Imagine that
incredible anti-art thing happening
there,” Whiteley once said to me,
apropos of Rillington Place: and again,
“I only thought of Christie as art, and it
became necessary to make some charts.”
The aesthetics of murder: five whores
die that Whiteley might work his way
through Jasper Johns and Francis
Bacon. If you think art is documenta-
tion, you may agree with the “Observer’s”
critic, Nigel Gosling, that Whiteley’s use
of Christie as a subject “hardly rose
above the level of evening journalism”.
But as a comment on the paintings, and
their desolution of aesthetic problems,
that line is grotesquely unfair. The fact
that Whiteley could take a subject so
loaded with journalistic associations,
and turn it into art, is the measure of his
power for transformation. His show was
patchy, a bit capricious sometimes, but
alive with promise and achievement.
I spoke to Whiteley a few days before
he left for Australia. “I’m only going for
about six months. Why go back at all? I
think, I mean I hope, that one could get
a certain professionalism going there in
relation to art. A lot of young people in
London feel like this. They’re Aus-
tralians but they’ve been trained here
and they don’t want to take Australia on
the old level, the instant outback heroic
bit, the art scene as it stands there. Any-
way; as soon as I get off that plane, I'll
have me feelers out in all directions. I
want to be influenced by anything and
everything. And finally, when I’ve eaten
my way through the lot, well, you never
know, someone will say, ‘I like that,’ or
‘I don’t like it.’
“They can use it for whatever they
want to use it for: and that’s what
paintings should be made for. If you
don’t have a simple image you can’t
expect a single meaning from a picture
or an artist.”


Reformation-Roman Style
“The most epochal event in modern Church history "
From DESMOND O’GRADY in Rome
Once upon a time, and a very long
time ago it seems, too, Pope John
summoned a Council. Nobody
took it seriously. For one thing, John
lacked the dignity, the encyclopedic
learning, the tragic dimension of his pre-
decessor. For another, what could be ex-
pected of a Council? There was a vague
idea that the doctrine of Papal Infalli-
bility, proclaimed by the 1870 Vatican
Council, had eliminated the need for
others. Moreover, The Roman synod,
which was the forerunner to the Council,
merely rubber-stamped bureaucratic pro-
posals. But there was one group which
prepared solemnly for it. This was the
Roman Curia, the Church’s central ad-
ministration.
It seems much longer than four years
ago since the Council began because
developments in these four years have
been so swift and far-reaching. In many
cases it is difficult to recall the initial
positions which have dropped out of
sight and commentators stumble for a
vocabulary adequate to the new realities.
Whereas the Church has long been con-
sidered an absolute monarchy, the
bishops are now to rule it collegially with
the Pope. This new concept has its ex-
pression in the synod of bishops and is
to be reflected in collegial co-operation at
every level of the Church down to parish
councils involving priests and laity. The
Church has become a “guided demo-
cracy” and it remains to be seen who
does the guiding, how much weight pub-
lic opinion will have. More generally,
there is the difficulty of finding terms to
express, and justify, change in a church
which has boasted that it is unchanging
and is always preoccupied to prove its
cosy continuity. “The development of
doctrine” is one of the key concepts of
Vatican 11, but the changes it implies in
many fields are so extensive that only
a term such as “mutation” is appropriate.
An American Methodist Council ob-
server, Dr Albert C. Outler, identified the
characteristic element of the Council in
a talk entitled “Reformation —Roman
Style”. He said that previous reforming
councils had “separated the sheep from
the goats, then scaped the goats and
fitted out the sheep with haloes. Vatican
II is a very rare instance of historic
change within a continuum of identity
and consensus . . . Vatican II has been
a council that has dismayed the diehards
but has not alienated them, that has
damped down the arsonists without
quenching their fire, that has chafed the
progressives and bored the unimagina-
tive”.
Dr Outler went on to say that Vatican
II had been a subtle affair because of
these changes within a tradition. He
pointed out the dangers involved in such
an operation but before examining these
it is worthwhile listing the achievements
of what Outler and others have called
“the most epochal event in modern
Church history”.
A major achievement has been this
maintenance of unity, the initiation of
reform without schism, the opening out
of vast horizons without loss of touch
with the past.
POPE PAUL
The Council has been a resounding
vindication of theologians who were under
a cloud of suspicion in the years pre-
ceding it. It is only a few short years, for
instance, since the Jesuit John Courtney
Murray was asked to submit his writings
on religious liberty to an ecclesiastical
censor but the conciliar document on re-
ligious liberty was substantially his. The
Council has taught even organisation-
minded bishops the importance of theo-
logians. It has also driven home the lesson
that the Church is dangerously impover-
ished if a repressive atmosphere stifles
intellectual freedom within it.
During the Council the bishops, for the
first time, got to know one another. Pre-
viously the relationship had been of each
bishop to the Pope. Now the bishops
know each other closely and this closer
knowledge will not only invigorate
national and regional episcopal confer-
ences but will find expression in new
groupings such as the contacts which
will be maintained among all the English-
speaking hierarchies and between all the
European hierarchies.
These contacts raised the bishops’
eyes from the diocesan accounts to the
tasks of the Church as a whole. They
made the needs of all quarters of the
globe felt in Rome and the Council had
to shape responses to them. Without aa
awareness of these new pastoral situa-
tions, the curia and the conservatives
were unassailable in their high-handed
practices and their siege mentality. But
they could not continue to give answers
without knowing what the questions were
when the bishops were in St Peter’s
itself.
A pointer to the vastness of the
changes wrought by the Council was the
almost casual approval of working priests
in what was generally considered one of
the less interesting documents, that on
the priesthood. The French worker priest
movement is the most tormented chapter
of recent Church history, but the Council
approved the principle for the whole
Church with the greatest equanimity.
The key to the Council was the docu-
ment on the Church. Some maintain that
the Council involved no theological
changes, no doctrinal aggiornamento, but
only improvements in the method of
delivering the Christian message. But the
document on the Church marks a com-
plete shift in perspective from that of the
Church as a perfect society which must
necessarily claim its rights. Instead it pre-
sents the Church as a mystery, as a poor
pilgrim constantly in need of God’s help.
The changed attitude was evident right
through the Council to the last document
on the Church in the modern world which
is the complement of that on the Church.
A perfect society is complete in itself but
in the document on the Church in the
modern world there was evidence that
the Church had learnt to listen. As well
as the teaching Church there was the
hearing Church, listening to the world,
and the seeing Church, trying to discern
the signs of the times not merely to
condemn developments but to praise
what is good in them and to understand
what they signify in the plan of salva-
tion.
The Council laid down guidelines for
new relations with atheists, with non-
Christian religions, particularly the Jews,
with other Christians.
It told religious orders to bring them-
selves in line with the renewal in the
Church, it opened the way for seminaries
to act independently of Rome and turn
out mature men rather than big boys per-
manently disqualified from real contact
with their society, it recognised that mis-
sions are the business of the whole Church
rather than a marginal activity.
It paved the way for new liturgical life
within the Church and for new relations


••• •••••
••••• •
GOT IT
&&■
-
m
IT'S SIMPLICITY ITSELF
TO MAKE SURE . . .
By installing the Smith-Corona “Typetronic 2215”, you
will introduce automatic operation into your office
and automatic benefits as well.
Time saved, money saved, and the certainty of correct
information at all times are sound reasons why you
should install typetronic, either by purchase or on lease.
Ask for a demonstration.
A PRODUCT OF SMITH-CORONA MARCHANT INC.
’Distributed by:
AMALGAMATED WIRELE
47 York Street, Sydney. 2 2033 •
SS (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
167 Queen Street, Melbourne. 67 9161
with other Christians in the documents
on the liturgy, on ecumenism, on religious
liberty, and on divine revelation. Pre-
viously the Holy Office had the franchise
on ecumenism but the Council gave it
a completely new foundation by its recog-
nition of the Church's need to constantly
reform itself, of the Church’s share of
responsibility for the divisions of the
past, of Protestant ecclesiastical com-
munities, of common action on the mis-
sions and common prayer, of the im-
portance of the Bible and modern
biblical studies, of the vernacular and
community worship, of religious liberty
and the role of the laity.
Many of the propositions approved
by the Council were opposed in the
centres of power at its beginning: the
vernacular liturgy is one example. Its
approval meant, among other things, that
Rome would inevitably lose control over
many decisions regarding the Church’s
worship. The Council then achieved much
more than was expected of it. But it had
its limitations and, in any case,
was only the beginning of the re-
juvenation of the Church Which
still must overcome serious ob-
stacles.
The most obvious limitation of the
Council was that it had to produce
texts which would satisfy arch-con-
servative archbishops such as Cardinal
Ruffini and progressives such as Car-
dinal Suenens. The texts consequently
were compromises and were weakened, as
in the case of the Jewish document, be-
cause the simple majority which would
be satisfactory in a parliament was in-
sufficient in a Council. Furthermore,
some of-the most pressing problems such
as birth control and mixed marriage
legislation were appropriated by the
Pope.
Both the compromises and appropria-
tions reflected the sharp differences with-
in the Council: although the bishops
were of the same Church they could
have been of different centuries. The in-
transigence of the irreducible 11 per
cent who opposed both the Jewish de-
claration and the religious liberty docu-
ment was as remarkable as the remain-
der’s willingness to take a fresh look at
the Church and the world. The diehards
fought so tenaciously that at times it
seemed the only result of Pope John
throwing open the windows of the
Church was that people could see the
squabbling going on inside.
They hindered the Council without
halting it but they may have more suc-
cess in preventing its application. There
will probably be a backlash by bishops
who find it easier to be progressive in
Rome than at home. Moreover, in a com-
plex unity such as the Church the suc-
cess of one current is inevitably followed
by concessions to the opposite current.
But the general trend in the Church by
now is irreversible. At the very minimum
there is a whole series of charters carry-
ing the authority of all the Church to
which appeal can be made.
The pace at which the Church pursues
its new vision will largely be set by Pope
Paul. Until now he has driven with his
foot on the brake but it is doubtful
Damping down the arsonists
whether Pope John could have steered the
Council more skilfully to its conclusion.
John brought off the impossible whereas
Paul has made the papacy the art of the
possible, he has made concessions to the
reactionaries but, so far at least, only in
inessentials.
However, the bishops have dispersed
and the Curia, which was anything but
enthusiastic about the Council, remains.
There are nettles yet to be seized: the re-
vision of canon law and the commissions
concerned with the application of the
Council could cripple or continue the
work of the . last four Years; birth control,
priestly celibacy and mtugences are
some of the other questions which are
likely to be flashpoints in the post-con-
ciliar period.
They are part of the more general
question of whether the central admim-
stration in Rome will merely be dragged
along by the movement of the Church
or will promote it. The answer would
seem to be in the Synod Pope Paul estab-
lished at the beginning of the last Council
session. He announced his intention of
establishing the Synod but those in the
know said it would be years before he
gave any details about it and, in any
case, members would be selected from
Rome rather than elected by the national
episcopal conferences. The next day, how-
ever, the Pope came into the Council to
announce the constitution of the Synod
in which 85 per cent of the members are
to be elected by national episcopal con-
ferences.
There are still many question-marks
about the Synod, but it could develop
into an effective means of making the
Church’s real needs known in Rome as
the Council did. The bishops now have
an unparalleled opportunity for effective
regional co-operation and co-operation
with the Pope in the government of the
Church. This co-operation cannot be fully
fruitful without the long-promised re-
form of the Roman Curia.
The advantage of reformation
Roman-style is that the Church
moves as a piece but the danger
is that it will miss the bus alto-
gether: that it will maintain its
unity but not attain relevance. The mys-
tery of the minority’s manoeuvres can
distract attention from the mystery of the
Church; the care to accommodate the
diehards can prevent the Church from
firing the imagination of men.
The Council did show its concern for
problems such as world poverty and racial
discrimination, but its main preoccupation
was the cleansing of the Church to fit it
f o r its mission in the world. The effects of
this w fii on ]y become visible gradually as
the i esson 0 f the Council is absorbed.
There is not much to hope from those
wb o approach ecumenism, for instance,
. h an ttitude of “ now j have to be nice
Council will eraduallv transform the
k ° unc ' l , Wl,l B ra “ ual] y transform the
Church. As that takes place there will be
a tardy recognition of the seminal im-
portance of the events of the last four
years in Rome.


LETTERS
Yes , We Have Bananas
SIR. All true Australians must wel-
come the recent challenges in your pages
(8., Nov. 13) and elsewhere to the arid
and alien pomposities of the monarchy.
It is a good sign, too, that at least one
contributor to this discussion has exten-
ded his scalpel tc our shoddy second-hand
system of Parliamentary-Cabinet govern-
ment. Anyone contemplating Canberra's
do-nothing Menzies regime and flaccid
MPs cannot but long for the dynamism
of an Eisenhower Administration and
one or two flaming tribunes of the people
like the late Senator Joseph McCarthy.
Think, too, of the inspiration to our
children to apply themselves to their
arithmetic if the reward is to become,
not some crummy Prime Minister, but
President! In our constitutional re-
visions, however, Lord forbid that we
should confine ourselves to American
patterns, based as they are on thoroughly
objectionable English foundations. Mr
Santamaria would be glad to advise us
on, say, Iberian models In any case, it
is encouraging to hear Australians talk at
last of scrapping institutions, instead of
the alien hypocrisy of making them work
better.
But how fair dinkum are the Hornes
and Duttons? (Those Pommy names!)
Why do they concentrate their fire on
the constitutional trimmings while every
fibre of our national life is rotten with
Pommy influence? Isn't this the time-
worn imperialist trick of giving way on
inessentials in order to keep hold of what
matters? Can Aussies tolerate any longer,
for instance, the moth-eaten idiocies of
the Common Law? And look at the hold
they've got on our religious life! British
churches like the Anglican, Methodist,
Presbyterian, Congregationalist and Bap-
tist should be banned (that will leave us
ample democratic choice, as perusal of
the church notices will confirm). The
Roman church, too, must be thoroughly
purged of the pernicious influence of
Ireland, utterly corrupted as it is by
centuries of unfortunate association with
the English; freed of this influence, things
will be sorted out ift no time by the
impeccable Continental logic of the Curia
and Dr Kiing.
Can we stand idly by and allow the
subtle Pommy brain-washing of our
children with nursery-rhymes, A. A.
Milne, Robin Hood and Treasure Island?
Or see their characters warped by in-
dulgence in Pommy games like cricket
and football? If we have an ounce of
national self-respect, we will throw off
these alien shackles and ruthlessly root
out all British influences. Nor will we
be inhibited by Pommy twaddle about
so-called “free-speech”. The Aussie way
is to put in the boot. Onward to the Re-
public! We already have the bananas.
T. H. RIGBY
Dept, of Political Science
Anst. National University (ACT).
Feminism
SIR. What an excellent contribution
to modern sociology was Patricia Rolfe’s
article on Feminism (8., Dec. 4). It fully
deserved the distinction of a leading
article and cover illustration. Many of
us will see almost photographic likenesses
to friends and relatives. However, beyond
all cynical comment from either men or
women describing their separate attitude
to the female feminist, I would pose a
question.
Why is it that, apart from dedicated
members of distinctive feminist associa-
tions, the majority of women detest
having to work under feminine super-
vision? Is it because they realise that
they cannot act rationally and without
emotional discrimination when called
upon to judge between one woman and
another, or for that matter, between any
two persons? How then can they be
fitted to serve the community in positions
of prime responsibility in government?
M. R. MORTON
Kings ford (NSW).
JURIES v. JUDGES
let in
80 Years Ago: December 19, 1885
verdict in the Floyer-Dixon libel
case, heard last week in Sydney,
shows that juries have discovered that,
if they would see justice done, they must
disregard judges' decisions and intro-
duce a little equity into their decisions.
The plaintiff, Dr Floyer, had been held
up to ridicule by a playful paragraph in
the "Bourke Watchman", which implied
that patients were not to him "a little
dearer than his horse". There was no
doubt whatever that it was not necessary
to prove that the plaintiff had been
damaged the mere fact of his having
been. made the object of ridicule was
sufficient to gain him a verdict. But the
sagacious four, having in view the Clon-
tarf libel case, wherein the jury fined the
defendants one farthing and the law took
from them 1,920,000 farthings more,
indulged in a little "tomahawk-law" by
finding for the defendant. This is a way
juries have. But lately we have seen
that Sydney jurors, observing how little
attention was paid to the rider of mercy
on a conviction for capital crime, have
sensibly brought in verdicts of man-
slaughter. We hope it will always be
so as long as a code of law, ages behind
the sentiment of the people, is admini-
stered with the present cold-blooded
technicality.
NZ Makes You Laugh
SlR.—What a delight—for anyone with
a sense of humor —is the article by Ross
Campbell on “The Dark Side of the
Tasman” (8., Nov. 27). And all this
from an inhabitant of one of the most
vulgar, filthy, brassy, ill-mannered towns
I have seen around the world. A town
of raucous, uncouth voices and unadorned
coarseness, with crime, vice and dis-
honesty at a premium. In the words of
Stanley Holloway, “It makes you laugh!”
C. F. BRUCE
Mos man (MS'IT).
The Seventh State?
SIR.—I am very glad to see the amount
of space you have latterly given to the
problems of Papua and New Guinea
which surely illustrates the growing
awareness in Australia of the importance
of the Territory to us. Among the pro-
posals for the future of the Territory
which its inhabitants may in the course
of time determine according to their
accepted right of self-determination is
that it should become the seventh State
of the Commonwealth. The difficulties
in the way of this being achieved have
been emphasised by the opponents, and
to some degree admitted by the pro-
ponents of the suggestion. But have
arguments on both sides not been on
the basis that it is assumed that any ad-
ditional State would rank pari passu with
existing States? Is it not possible to have
a compromise either a seventh State
admitted to the Commonwealth on spe-
cial conditions, or a self-governing Terri-
tory of the Commonwealth without the
status of a State?
The answer lies in the Commonwealth
Constitution. Section 121 provides: “The
Parliament may admit to the Common-
wealth or establish new States, and may
upon such admission or establishment
make or impose such terms and condi-
tions, including the extent of the repre-
sentation in either House of the Parlia-
ment, as it thinks fit.”
It appears to me therefore that, should
the people of the Territory wish to be-
come a seventh State, the terms and con-
ditions on which it would be admitted
could be the subject of agreement be-
tween the Commonwealth and the Terri-
tory and such terms and conditions could
be quite different to those on which the
States by mutual agreement formed the
Commonwealth. For example, fewer
powers could be reserved to the Com-
monwealth even to the extent of the
Commonwealth retaining power as to
only Defence and External Affairs. The
Territory may or may not be represent-
ed in the Commonwealth Parliament.
Alternatively, it appears to me that
under Section 122 of the Commonwealth


ALL OVER THE WORLD WE TAKE GOOD CARE OF YOU
11172 5.101 N
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
WITH AIR-INDIA, QANTAS & AIR NEW ZEALAND
8 FLIGHTS WEEKLY TO LONDON (NOW TO AUCKLAND AND FIJI* TOO)
. : V •' V '-T: 3r >'
11176
23.101 N
ROLLS
R
ROYCE
For ful! details of BOAC’s Rolls-Royce
707 jet services from Australia, and
the facilities of the world-wide BOAC
network, talk to your Travel Agent,
BOAC or Qantas (BOAC’s General
Sales Agents).
("from November 26)
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
WITH AIR-INDIA, QANTAS & AIR NEW ZEALAND
Constitution the Territory could still re-
main a Territory of the Commonwealth
but enjoying a much higher status than
at present. Under that Section the Com-
monwealth can make laws for a territory
acquired by it. It can give the Territory
a constitution as it has indeed done on
several occasions and the Territory at
present operates under a constitution
given it by the Commonwealth. The con-
stitutions given to the Territory to date
have been imposed from above. It would
be a simple matter for the Territory to
propose its own constitution under which
it enjoyed internal self-government and
certain powers in relation to it, e.g.,
Security and Foreign Affairs, were retain-
ed by the Commonwealth. The Territory
would then be a self-governing Territory
of the Commonwealth. The drawback,
in so far as the Territory is concerned,
would be that the constitution could be
amended by the Commonwealth as an
act of its Parliament. No doubt the
Commonwealth would give the Territory
an assurance that no amendments would
be passed without its consent, and such
an assurance would morally, if not legal-
ly, bind future Governments.
Any determination made by the Ter-
ritory, it goes without saying, should be
made by a democratic process, either by
a plebiscite of its people before whom
the issue is properly put, or by resolution
of a democratically elected parliament
after an election in which the issue has
been put before the people. It appears
to be then that the Territory could be,
according to its own determination, any
of the following:
1. An independent nation.
2. An additional State of Australia with
the same status as existing States.
3. An additional State of Australia
under terms and conditions with the
Commonwealth differing from those
now existing between the Common-
wealth and its States.
4. A self-governing Territory of the
Commonwealth.
DUDLEY JONES
Townsville (Qld).
Nehru;s Memorial
SIR. This is to bring to the knowledge
of your innumerable readers that the
Nehru Memorial Museum and Library is
collecting letters, photographs and other
documentary material relating to the life
and work of Jawaharlal Nehru. In the
course of his long, rich and crowded
public career, first as a leader of the
national movement, then as the Prime
Minister of India, he travelled extensively
and met and corresponded with large
numbers of individuals. It is important
that a full record of his activities is col-
lected, carefully preserved and in due
time made available for research to


'fX„ *
ipliiiiiii
\%
n
* '■ , - <S V ■ ;
P •* •*■ * -sr*
f ?■■■# *.■»**
mu
mm
|R?^S
®SM
ms*.
m
fm
m
1
KM
*• <
* VtC*-
m
■4 V*
ixfc
iu
>s§Qmk|
Every pipe is a classic to its owner:
now there is one classic tobacco for every pipe
Benson & Hedges Special Smoking
Mixture is truly a classic among pipe
tobaccos. It is cut rather coarsely to
ensure cooler, slower smoking. It is
aromatic, mild, smooth. And it is
carefully blended from Latakia,
Perique and other distinctive leaf.
Modestly priced at 7/9 a tin, Benson
& Hedges Special Smoking Mixture
is the right tobacco when only the best
will do. And isn’t that all the time?
mm
Bensonmet Be3ge§
SPECIAL SMOKING MIXTURE
scholars. This is, therefore, an appeal
to all associates, friends and admirers
of our late Prime Minister abroad to
donate his letters, photographs and other
documentary materials, such as Press
clippings, films, etc., to the Nehru
Memorial Museum and Library, Teen
Murti House, New Delhi-11. Copies of
the docun.ents wall be supplied for
personal record to those donors who
wish to have them. Arrangements will
be made to return the originals to those
who wish to keep them, after copies have
been preserved at the Nehru Memorial
Museum and Library.
J. MOULIK
First Secretary,
Information Service of India
Sydney {NSW).
Town and Country
SIR. I notice in your financial pages
a constant undercurrent of complaint
that the city taxpayer is required to
contribute to “inefficient primary j n .
dustry”. It ill becomes the city taxpayer
to raise this point. Nothing could be
more inefficient than the cost-plus system
under which most Australian industry
operates today and the rural purchaser
certainly contributes to that. It
adding insult to injury to claim, as at
least one manufacturer has done, that
because his products are used in agri-
culture he is in fact exporting. So long
as he sells to the farmer at inflated local
prices he is in fact hindering exports
rather than helping them.
Despite the publicity given to one or
two price support schemes, most primary
producers ar.e selling overseas without
direct help against competitors who are
almost universally assisted by their gov-
ernments. Until the Australian manu-
facturers generally can improve their
own export performance they would do
better to be silent.
J. O. K. DENNY
Lily dale ( Tas .).
Wheat Prices
SIR. Your article on wheat and the
China sales (8., -Nov. 2 7 ) seems to me
to deal with the matter of price in a
rather flippant way. “Price?” you say,
“always important, but not so important
as it could be to the wheatgrower. be-
cause the taxpayer weighs in when re-
quired, and the individual Australian
should be able to afford a few extra
shillings.” Of course, our wheatgrowers
are paid by cheque drawn on the Reserve
Bank, but what is hard to understand is
that there are very few Chinese goods
available to sell on the local market. So
it would appear that the wheatgrower is
subsidised to enable him to send his
product out of the country at an un-
disclosed price by the Australians who
buy wheat either to make flour, feed
stock or grow eggs. In view of the
fact that the total indebtedness of Aus-
tralia is over £BOOO million costing in
interest more than £1 million per work-
ing day, and that about 10 per cent of
the population cannot afford to buy eggs
or butter, all this is hard to understand.
ARCH BROWNE
Plenty (NSW).
Anglicans and Racism
SIR. —Mr Butler's letter (8., Dec. 11)
is typical of the sophist techniques to
which he resorts whenever his pernicious
racist activities come under attack. The
seconder to my motion, the Rev. J. Han-
non, who Mr Butler describes' as “a
personal friend of my Assistant National
Director”, informed me prior to the
Synod that after examining books and


u
-V
«tir 3
r>'-
II
T^w-v
••>* *« Ht * -
* A-' ,' :
ff P- 3 ** #- «* k
*r S S&J ; - . 5 j)] 5 \
* ' '■■fi-f-U
> Ml
*S ?.,/' "' l "*s%SgS||
■JM **» • ***<#*••*• ■ft6stegar.-\ t
'•■• .v& v * wm >\
6 m
h *•
'-.. y/*w/ **««'«« V'vwvn «.•*«« WsW' s
All States are United
in acclaiming Vat 69
fine old Scotch Whisky
\j AU over the world . . . one Scotch stands out
VAT 69
g
lUI7J
'pamphlets in Mr Butler’s bookshop “I
jcame into contact with literature which
blames all the world’s evils on the Jews”.
|fdr Hannon confirmed to me today that
be has no intention of repudiating his
association with my Synod resolutions,
jdr Butler's efforts to drive a wedge be-
tween Mr Hannon and myself are con-
sequently absurd and unfactual.
I did meet the Chairman of the so-
iled Church Committee of the Aus-
Jralian League of Rights. Mr Horton
Javies merely confirmed my evaluation
of Mr Butler and his followers. Amongst
other matters he told me that indigenous
Africans were a lower breed of human
being and he made the astonishing state-
ment that the Rev. Martin Luther King
iwas a Communist agent. He also
described the anti-Communist Jewish
leader Mr Isi Leibler as an agent of the
world Communist conspiracy. When Mr
Davies accused me of campaigning
against anyone who was anti-Communist,
1 informed him that I had no quarrel
over racism with Mr B. A. Santamaria
who was himself an anti-Communist and
an anti-racist. Mr Davies then made the
extraordinary statement that the League
of Rights “had great doubts as to the
genuineness of the anti-Communism of
Hr Santamaria and the DLP”.
j Mr Butler is using similar techniques
.to Mr Davies when he attempts to smear
the Gott booklet. I have carefully
checked Mr Gott’s references to Butler’s
anti-Semitism and found them utterly
reliable. It is odd to see Mr Butler
describing “Dissent”, an organisation
which has published the most authori-
tative booklet exposing Communist domi-
nation of the “Australia and New
Zealand Congress for International Co-
operation and Disarmament”, as a Com-
munist body. However, in case .any of
your readers still doubt the anti-Semitic
and racist agitation disseminated by the
League of Rights, I am enclosing a copy
of a monstrous leaflet produced, endorsed
'and distributed in Melbourne in 1961 by
jthe Australian League of Rights. It is
titled “Our White Australia” and deals
with sexual diseases of the colored people
as well as rehashing the hoariest of
forgeries about alleged efforts by World
lews to capture and enslave Christian
Civilisation.
Mr Butler conveniently evades the
fact that he is “the officially accredited
correspondent for the John Birch
Society”. My source for this is none
other than “American Opinion”, the
official organ of the John Birch Society.
This information has also been discreetly
confirmed by local Butlerites to the inner-
circle. The tactics of the Butlerites and
the Communists are very similar. They
both suffer from paranoid delusions, have
small cadres of fanatical followers con-
vinced that the enemy is about to engulf
them, and seek scapegoats to justify a
distorted, conspiratorial world outlook.
Mr Butler knows that the teachings of
the Christian Church are utterly anti-
thetical to racism and anti-Semitism.
AparU from a small coterie of mal-
adjusted individuals, the Anglican Church
and indeed other Christian churches
have repeatedly repudiated philosophies
and tactics which seek to create racial,
religious or ethnic hatred within the
community, such as those indulged in
by the League of Rights.
(The Rev.) David J. Pope
St Matthias’ Vicarage
North Richmond (Vic.).
SIR.—Your article on “Un-Anglican
Activities” (B., Nov. 27) could be mis-
leading if it suggests that, prior to the
Rev. David Pope’s admirable expose in
our Anglican Synod of the League of
Rights’ antics, Anglican clergy were un-
concerned with racism. This is not so.
Except for one vicar with a long record
of association with Mr Butler, an over-
whelming majority of Anglican priests
here have consistently opposed racism—-
witness the telegrams sent by the Arch-
bishop of Melbourne and his clergy to
the South African Government on
Bishop Reeves’ expulsion in 1960.
This was confirmed by the approval
that Synod gave to Mr Pope’s resolution,
and the applause that greeted his con-
demnation of un-Anglican activities by
Mr Butler and his organisation. Notably,
Archbishop Woods has himself supported
and identified himself with Mr Pope’s
sentiments. Since Synod I have, incident-
ally, had the honor of addressing the
North-East Jewish Centre here on “The
Meaning of the Word Liberal”. Earlier
in the year Professor Zelman Cowen, a
prominent Jew, spoke from my pulpit on
the 750th anniversary of Magna Carta.
(The Rev.) Patrick Stevenson
St Silas’ Vicarage.
North Balwyn (Vic.).


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Conspicuous Spending
By PATRICIA ROLFE
IS almost every town and village in
Australia there Is a Memorial Hall,
dating back to World War I. These
simple places, all much the same, belong
to the time when our hearts were pure,
our sentiments strong and our purses
slim.
Rearing above these are the memor-
ials to the soldiers of World War 11.
These have, a sameness about them, too.
Monuments to Australia’s essential non-
conformity, they are mostly called War
Memorial Civic Theatres. The War Mem-
orial is to generate local interest by an
appeal to sentiment and tax deductions.
The Civic Theatre is invariably planned
as part of a Civic Centre, which, it is
hoped, will give a heart to sprawling
towns.
The new theatres serve as memorials
to dead men and also as conspicuous
evidence of postwar prosperity. They
also, but often much less successfully,
serve as theatres.
Many country centres, particularly in
New South Wales, seem to be entirely
willing to pay out sums which on the
basis of population come near the splen-
did extravagance of the Sydney Opera
House. For example, Albury, with a pop-
ulation of 25,520, has a Civic Theatre
worth £230,000. Bathurst with 17,750
people spent £290,000 on its.
The new theatres are built without any
of Sydney's expectation of population in-
crease. For good or ill, Sydney will grow,
but the average wool or wheat town, no
matter how many decentralisation bills
are passed, has little to draw population
quickly.
These theatres were, of course, built
without benefit of lotteries, mostly from
loans and from local fund-raising (from
people who are already contributing to
the Opera House, via lotteries).
Occasionally, there are other sources.
In Cessnock. the Joint Coal Board con-
tributed £31,050 of the £152,000 the
theatre cost. In Orange the theatre is
called the Amoco Centre, which makes a
nice change and makes clear how one
petrol company -got the position it
wanted for a service station.
But how do these marble halls fare as
theatres? When Sir Tyrone Guthrie was
in Perth earlier this year to advise on the
building of a new theatre within the Uni-
versity of Western Australia he gave as
his dictum: An all-purpose theatre is a
no-purpose theatre.
This is a harsh saying so far as any
small centre is concerned. The theatres
"Mummy, does Daddy belong to the National Trust , too?"
are intended for many purposes. It j s
misleading to call some of them
“theatres” and fit that function on them
just as it is misleading to call the Sydney
Opera House an opera house. But, if you
aren’t Melburnian enough to come at
cultural centre, what can you call them?
Many of the country theatres are
designed by local architects and local
pressures and prides see that they are.
Few of these architects have had previous
experience in theatre design. In fact,
there appears to be no architect in Aus-
tralia specialising in theatre design, or,
at least, in designing modest theatres.
Many of the councils ask for and get ad-
vice from the Elizabethan or the Arts
Council, but often enthusiasm runs ahead
of this, or in the long run it is impossible
to reconcile conflicting aims.
However, in some of the new theatres
things seem to go wrong sadly, unneces-
sarily and beyond any reasonable point.
Members of the Sydney Q Group have
just finished a five-month. 17,000-mile
tour during which actor Walter Sullivan
took notes for a book which he proposes
to write.
From a large town in the southern
tablelands of NSW Mr Sullivan wrote:
“The stage is large and splendidly ap-
pointed, the auditorium is absolutely
right in every way. The manager is
charming and helpful, the foyer com-
modious and elegant. It is a sort of
theatrical Nirvana, until the curtain goes
up and you walk on to the stage to say
your jokes.
“You then find that, by some un-
imaginable caprice, they have included
in the design an Olympic swimming-pool,
.situated slap bang in front of the foot-
lights and extending across the audi-
torium. They have not yet filled it with
water. In fact, they are at present using
it to store an upright piano and a Ham-
mond organ, together with a stray chair
and an anglepoise lamp.
“If your sangfroid is proof against the
shock of this discovery, you3open your
mouth and start. Your first impression
is that someone has had the effrontery
to switch on microphones and speakers
to help your delivery, for your voice
echoes back at you, arriving at the ears
about a quarter of a second after leaving
the mouth, a most disconcerting sensa-
tion. Gradually you realise that the
swimming pool is acting as a sounding
board, bouncing your voice back on to
the stage, where it is not welcome, and
up to the ceiling, where it is not needed.
“You then discover, with some relief,
that the audience, which you had thought
to be absent, is merely in the distance.
They have learned that if they get up
near the back they hear your voice
bouncing back to them from the ceiling,
as though from a Telstar satellite. What


w ith the swimming pool and the empty
few front rows, the audience is about the
same distance from the stage as the
width of Martin Place, hardly conducive
jto intimate theatre.
j “To add to the confusion, the entire
jpiece must be played against a back-
ground noise like the sound of rushing
Later. This is air-conditioning which
is so arranged that air enters the audi-
torium through ducts at the bottom of the
|wimming-pool and rushes up in front
Fif the stage like a little airy Niagara in
everse.
“The audience is, presumably, com-
fortable. Comfort, as everybody knows,
is for people, not for actors and singers
and that mob. When you get back to
your dressing-room you discover there is
no air-conditioning here and no heat.
“More seriously, there is no hot water
in the hot-water taps. When you have
to do a quick make-up change on a cold
night, that is quite serious. I hear that
[when the ballet people were here, they
saw the lovely showers and rushed in and
had to be chipped out of the resulting
glacier.”
Mr Sullivan, moving on to another
large town in the southern tablelands, had
another interesting experience with air-
'conditioning:
! “With a nice sense of the fitness of
things the architects have seen to it that
the auditorium is heated, so that all the
human beings are warm, no matter how
miserable the animals might be. But
here there is a slight hitch. The person
responsible for the air-conditioning did
not know what every schoolboy knows
jthat cold a-ir flows downwards, displacing
Iwarm air which rises. As a matter of
fact, even sheep know that, which is
why, in hilly country, they always make
their “camp” on the top of a hill.
“Now this theatre, with its splendid
backstage equipment, has great high flies
into which you can hoist the scenery, so
the theatre is shaped, in cross-section, like
a thick ‘L’. While the curtain is down
the unheated backstage area banks up
a dam of cold air.
: “Backstage are the actors, shuddering
with cold; out front is the audience,
(warm and cosy and agog with expecta-
tion. The curtain rises and performers
and spectators are united in a fellowship
of discomfort, wallowing in a deep pool
of cold air, while the ceiling of the
auditorium and the upper regions of the
flies are little cosy pockets of warmth.
This air-conditioning cost £40,000.”
From Hay Mr Sullivan was happy to
report: “We played in the Memorial
Hall, where the acoustics are such that
a whisper can be heard and people are
kept warm by half a dozen strip-type
radiators. You could build the whole
place for about £6000”.
ON FILM
Whose “Mob” —Ours or Theirs?
Tn the last year or so, the demands for
an indigenous Australian film in-
dustry films made by and for Aus-
tralians—have grown more vociferous.
Sylvia Lawson in “Quadrant” and, more
recently, Michael Thornhill in “The Aus-
tralian” have spoken up especially firmly
on this issue. Frequently, people ask me
why we can’t make pictures like other
small countries, chiefly for our own
market. The reason, of course, is that
we haven’t a sufficient market here to
recoup—as we could do in the ’twenties
and ’thirties —the costs of making even
a low-budget film, and that the chances
of purely indigenous films obtaining
international release are at present far
too uncertain for any bank to advance
money for such productions. And even
with our Government’s help in the form
of subsidies per picture, the overseas
circuits won’t invest in our pictures unless
they are initially assured of a big-name
overseas director and star, and to
judge by recent events —assured of 100
per cent British union membership of
crew as well.
It’s no use quoting the examples of
countries like Mexico in this context:
they have large populations of TV-
deprived poor people for whom in-
digenous language films are the only
entertainment. TV and clubs have so
damaged the local market here that
British medium budgeters, as well as
American, die the death here as else-
where in the world.
If the Government is going to subsidise
indigenous films for this market, as Miss
Lawson wants, then it would have not
only to finance the making of the picture
but underwrite the distributors, Greater
Union or Hoyts, to the tune of many
thousands of pounds. And then, one
might ask, what is the point of subsi-
dising a medium or low budgeter if the
public and the evidence points to this
stays away from it?
The fact is that the only kind of
picture the Australian public wants to
see en masse is the big, multi-million-
dollar film like “Mary Poppins” or “The
Sound of Music”, preferably suitable for
all the family; an occasional “Tom
Jones” or “Goldfinger” is the excep-
tion that proves that “family” rule.
But let’s assume that the Government,
or a company, or banks, support, say,
three pictures in the £35,000 range
advocated by Mr Thornhill. A startlingly
good film might get into the art theatres
overseas, released sporadically, but the
art - house audiences everywhere have
traditionally given preference to Euro-
pean films (because of language snob-
bery and director snobbery), and British
or American films have had short shrift
in this area. British art films like Lind-
say Anderson’s “This Sporting Life”,
even with circuit release, have died the
death (and so did “Billy Liar”); Lindsay
Anderson can’t even get a new picture
financed. Try to set up a picture of the
kind Lawson and Thornhill advocate
even in England today and see what
happens: union rates send the budget sky
high, and as an independent you have to
wait your turn, and sometimes you don’t
get released at all.
The only solution, on the face of it, is
to secure priority release through the
British circuits, Rank or ABC, by en-
couraging investment from either one
of these circuits. This is what J. C. Wil-
liamson’s and Michael Powell have done
with “They’re a Weird Mob”: by securing
Rank release, and 50 per cent financing
from Rank and the British National Film
Finance Corporation, they tried to give
the picture a chance on the British
market.
But can Australians work on these
pictures at all? In order to get processed
and released in Britain, you have to
satisfy the British unions on the labor
arrangements. On “The Mob” the unions
claim that Michael Powell agreed to use
100 per cent British union members,
made up of 50 per cent UK members and
50 per cent members living abroad. They
say that instead he is using 50 per cent
non-members and 50 per cent members
made up half-and-half of domestic and
foreign members. They will, as a result
they say, prevent the film’s release and
processing in Britain.
I asked John Pellatt, “The Mob’s”
associate producer with Michael Powell,
to answer these charges.
“We have got a full union member-
ship of the minimum crew,” he told me.
“This minimum all-union crew is all
that is demanded of us by the union.
But now we have added more and they
are asking that all the additional mem-
bers should be British union members
as well. We have used all the members
on the list supplied to us by the ACTT
of members living in Australia, where
they could be found. We hope to settle
the matter amicably on discussion in
London.”
One hopes they can settle it: If the
British union do ban the film it will
mean that all pictures made here by Bri-
tain will have to have 100 per cent Bri-
tish union membership, and this means
that “Australian” pictures will be British
pictures, in effect.
CHARLES HIGHAM


ART
Sculpture in Quantity
rpwo imported sculpture shows in Mel-
bourne within a month bear witness
to the greatly increased mobility of art.
One, by Pino Conte, has already finished
its stay at the Leveson Street Gallery; the
other, by Jacques Fipchitz, will run into
January at the National Gallery (and will
not, unhappily, be seen anywhere else in
Australia).
The Fipchitz exhibition is unusually
interesting. We do not often see such a
large sample from sculptors of his stand-
ing, and it is rare indeed to see some-
thing like a retrospective exhibition. It
has been possible in this case because
Fipchitz models all his work in clay
sketches, and has managed during his
considerably disrupted 50 years as a
sculptor to preserve about three-quarters
of them. These clay maquettes have been
cast in bronze, and the present exhibition,
on loan from the New York Museum of
Modern Art, comprises 158 bronzes
dated from 1912 to 1962.
Jacques Fipchitz was born in Lithu-
ania in 1891, but his 30 years in France,
from 1909 to 1940, place him as a sculp-
tor among the French. His formation is
as a cubist, in the company of Gris,
Picasso, Rivera and others, but his work
as a whole shows a strong continuation
of the humanist tradition of Gericault
and Rodin. His subjects are predomin-
antly figure studies, quite a few of which
are formal but many of which have
heroic, mythical or religious significance.
These maquettes are heavy, solid works,
simplified in detail but dense and quite
fluid in their movement.
Certainly, one of the fascinations of
such a long view of a sculptor's work is
to sort out the changes of mood as he
progresses into the ’thirties, the war and
the major statements for recent monu-
ments. Viewed at this level, Lipchitz re-
veals a strong faith in the power of men
to win their continual struggles.
The Italian, Pino Conte, is quite a
different proposition. In his bronzes,
poise and elegance are essential. Mel-
burnians were probably especially inter-
ested in him because one of his slim
girls Miraggio helps keep the peace
at the Myer Music Bowl. His exhibition
consisted of many more such lissom
nubiles, very beautiful and admirably
sculpted. The exhibition provided, too,
an excellent lesson in the transition of
style. Out of the sensitive, withdrawn
and tranquil figures of young girls, dan-
cers and mothers, Conte develops a series
of rough abstractions, with the bverall
proportions of the upright figure but with
lumpish protruberances and rugged sur-
faces. Different though they appear at
first sight, these may still be taken as
aspects of the figure, with clinging head
shapes multiplying over the stumpy lines
of elementary limbs. They are, however,
less certain and polished than the female
figures.
Despite the welcome increase in
sculptural exhibiting, painters are still the
backbone of the galleries. I find it hard
to see all that I'd like to, and harder still
to select any for more than a mention.
One who might have merited closer atten-
tion than he got was Donald Faycock, at
the South Yarra Gallery. For some years
now, Faycock has been living on a well-
earned reputation as a young painter who
rode in on the first waves of abstraction,
but he is now giving people a lot of
trouble in deciding whether he is living
up to his reputation. With Laycock, one
is always struck by his great gifts as a
colorist and by the manifest care with
which he composes.
If £lOOO prizes are worth mentioning
for their own sake (there are still not
many in Melbourne), the Winemakers’
Prize should be noticed. It is a competi-
tion with a subject: some aspect of vine-
yard, winery or cellar activity in Aus-
tralia. In principle, most opined jokingly,
the subject is close to the inspiration of
any painter. In fact, it is extremely dull.
For the exhibitors it was an occasion to
paint ruddy cellarmasters, gigantic vats,
picturesque workers and voguish cook-
book decorations. Elizabeth Olah opened
up some possibilities with her near-nude
workers, and Peggy Fauser, Robert Jones
and Gareth Jones-Roberts realised some
of the color potential of the subject. The
prize was shared by a dreary Michael
Shannon of worker with vines and an
Andrew Sibley of double head possibly
with vines.
BILL HANNAN
TELEVISION
British Institution
choice was Perry Mason or “Write
Me a Murder”. ABC Television had
spent several nights brainwashing me into
the belief that its play, by the author of
“Dial M For Murder”, was dramatic and
exciting. This proved to be as untenable
as the idea that the DA will one day
convict a Perry Mason client, or The
Fugitive run out of breath.
In “Write Me a Murder”, producer
and director Henri Safran tried to force
life into the mummified corpse of another
of those traditional British murder mys-
teries, set in a decaying mansion and
suffering from mouldy plot. Here, two
writers concocted a “perfect murder”
scheme for a story, then decided to use
it on the distaff member’s husband, a cad
who deprived them of their fun by dying*
in a car accident. j
After they had married, and the male
writer had got hold of the cad’s fortune I
his elder brother arrived to share it, and',
was knocked off by means of the perfect
murder plot, which the female writer
happened to have entered in a short
story competition. The Scotland Yard
men, who could read, had only to dis-
mantle a sundial in which the murder
evidence was to be hidden.
This was an unfair notion o r the usual
duties of the average policemen.. As por-j
traved by John Creasey’s composite
senior Yard- man, Commander Gideon,
the job requires much more than a pen-
chant for newspaper reading. Gideon andi
his men make full use of rapid communi--
cation systems, police laboratories, and
their personal knowledge of criminals
and criminal psychology.
“From the files” stories always credit
the police with great powers of precog-
nition, although, in truth, it is mentioned
at some point that “months passed”
while the gendarmes waited patiently
for some informer’s tip. Australia’s own
“Homicide” is one of the few to openly
show detectives obtaining such informa?
tion, which usually costs only a pound
or two.
DALE MILLER
MUSIC
Hallelujah!
The Messiah. Handel. Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, Hurlstone Choir. Sydney
Town Hall.
T'he great majority of music-lovers were
introduced to Handel’s music, and
particularly his oratoria, through arrange-
ments in the 19th-century tradition,
These arrangements, by Stanford, Robin-
son, Hamilton Harty, Prout, Beecham
and Sargent among others, aimed at
making the music more suitable for
showing-off by the large English and
Welsh choral societies, of which Hudders-
field is perhaps the best-known.
More recently, devoted researchers
have reconstructed a great deal of 18th-
century music and its conventions. One
fine example of this approach was the
Dene Barnett - Norman Johnston
‘'Messiah” heard in the Cell Block
Theatre a few years back, using authen-
tic scoring, ornamentation and styles,
Thanks to such efforts, we’ve learned that
Handel was far from dull and ponderous;
in fact, most of his music is lively and
sparklingly inventive and entertaining.
It is as well to be aware of these things
when one attends Sydney’s Town Hall
“Messiah”, a December perennial. The
edition used by Sir Bernard Heinze this
year was, once again, Prout’s; the
orchestra was, by Handel’s standards,


Scotch
Haig
Whisky
7%
mmm
0
'M
m
want a
mature
full-bodied
scotch?
Don’t be vague, ask for
Haig
H 4225
iigantic; the choir likewise; the Town
Wall organ well, the less said about
Its noisy malapropisms the better. Yet,
(despite the version used, despite the
'great number of singers and instru-
mentalists, despite even that organ, the
•performance had definite style—not, of
fourse, an authentic style of Handel’s
jtra, but style nonetheless.
I Musically, this “Messiah” had many
Ijrtues. The Sydney Symphony Orches-
tra played excellently and its strings
here heard to very great advantage. The
isew Hurlstone Choir proved its mettle;
>one are the days when all we could
lear was an excess of second-rate
sopranos. Now this choir is well-
balanced; tenors, basses and contraltos
sang excellently and displayed very good
diction.
Of the soloists, tenor Peter Baillie and
contralto Lauris Elms were quite out-
standing. Soprano Rosalind Keene ap-
peared a little tired and was not at her
best perhaps, but she, too, sang with gusto
and much artistry. The only real disap-
pointment was Melbourne baritone
■Robert Payne; as, according to the pro-
gramme note, he has sung the “Messiah”
150 times, his singing from memory was
rot surprising, but this was probably
ilso the reason for his lack of musical
involvement which made one all the
inore conscious of certain shortcomings
jin his lower range.
Musically, this year’s was a pretty
successful “Messiah”, yet I confess to
some unease and bewilderment. Anyone
reading the texts used by Handel must
conclude that this is a deeply religious
work (it was originally billed as a
“Sacred Oratorio”!), perhaps better suited
to the church than the concert hall; yet
I doubt that anyone listening to the per-
formance could have been brought to a
sense of devoutness. This incongruity
was made the more apparent by some
curious details. The insertion of an in-
terval is reasonable and welcome; but
.how much more suitable such interval
1 would have been between “The Death of
the Messiah” and “The Resurrection”
than separating “Resurrection” from
“Triumph”. In the former, words and
music change from utter despair to
fresh hope, yet Sir Bernard drove on
relentlessly, without even a moment’s
pause for thought at that fateful
moment. Another incongruity was the
traditional reception of the “Hallelujah”;
in a performance so wholly bereft of
devoutness, the rising of an audience to
its feet is truly pointless.
By the standards of traditional Town
Hall “Messiah” performances, this year’s
was an excellent one and we may hope
that, gradually, more of the shoddy
traditions surrounding this great work
will be cast off, with Handel and his
music emerging triumphant!
PAUL PROLICH
FILMS
Heavy Hart
Act One. Director, Dore Schary. Embassy
Theatre, Sydney.
Have I the Right to Kill? Director, Alain
Cavalier. St James Theatre, Sydney.
"Oased on Moss Hart’s autobiographical
account of his early years, “Act
One” adopts a spurious air of down-to-
earth realism, with its uncompromising
black-and-white photography and reso-
lutely authentic period trappings. But
that old cornball Dore Schary, master of
the glossy romance, is not the man to
handle it.
Though no doubt true enough to the
facts as recounted by Hart, the film
manages to attribute to him the cliche-
ridden career of the hero of any back-
stage movie: struggling playwright with
the standard family background —warm-
hearted Momma, gentle, bespectacled
father, loyal kid brother finally has
play accepted; it fails in out-of-town try-
outs and hero despairs; inspired hero
corrects its mistakes; play is Broadway
hit; All Hart lacks is the faithful girl
whose heart he can break during a tem-
porary infatuation with a glamorous
actress.
Schary has come up against the basic
difficulty of portraying a man of talent
on the screen, and the callow Moss Hart
played by George Hamilton never looks
capable of composing a laundry-list.
Nonetheless he writes his play without
ever a rough note, starting by writing its
title in block capitals and quotes at the
top of a virgin page. Jason Robards Jnr,
Eli Wallach and Jack Klugman all
deserve better.
The title is not the only clumsy thing
about “Have I the Right to Kill?”. Its
script, written by the director, is awkward
and muddled both in its actual events
and in its examination of the characters’
motives. Cavalier should get other people
to write his movies, for he shows great
promise as a director.
Alain Delon can act very well when he
manages to forget his own charm and
beauty, and gives a good performance
as the outlawed deserter in Algiers who
finally earns the money to smuggle him-
self back to France, but only at the price
'of a serious bullet-wound. Aided by a
woman lawyer (beautifully played by
Lea Massari) he spends most of the film
trying to reach his Luxembourg farm and
wondering vaguely if he s behaved
wrongly (though, despite the title, he’s
generally ready enough to kill, without
worrying about his rights).
Despite my deep-rooted dislike of
dubbing, I must admit that this is most
expert, with the words cleverly matched
to lip-movements and spoken by actors
who really sound as if they know what
they’re talking about.
BEVERLEY TIVEY


BOOKS
The Press in Vietnam
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
The Making of a Quagmire. David Hal-
berstam. Bodley Head. 425.
TAavid Halberstam was one of a small
group of foreign reporters in South
Vietnam in 1962-63 who felt that the
Diem Government had become a national
disaster, the policies of the US State
Department and US Embassy had been
based on wrong premises and informa-
tion, and that the war against the Viet-
cong was being demonstrably lost because
of the inadequate understanding by the
top brass of the US military mission of
the fortunes of the war.
For fifteen months Halberstam rep-
resented the “New York Times”, and in
that time became established as the
brashest and most uncompromising mem-
ber of a Saigon Press corps which was
notoriously unpopular with both local
and American Government officials.
The fierce and beautiful Madame Nhu
is recorded as having told an English
correspondent that “Halberstam should
be barbecued, and 1 would be glad to
supply the fluid and the match”; when
the new publisher of the “New York
Times” paid a courtesy call on the White
Ho use-in October, 1963, one of President
Kennedy’s first questions was: “What
do you think of your young man in
Saigon?”, adding that he thought Halber-
stam was too close to the story and too
involved, and inquiring whether the
publisher had been thinking of trans-
ferring him to another area. (The
“Times” responded with typical silly
gallantry by immediately cancelling its
correspondent’s two-week holiday, which
was then due, lest it be thought that it
had capitulated to official pressure.)
A month before, the New York “Jour-
nal-American” had accused Halberstam
of being soft on Communism and help-
ing to pave the way for a bearded Viet-
namese Fidel Castro. A few days later
Joseph Alsop, after a short visit to
Vietnam, trained his guns on the “young
crusaders” of the Press corps. Pierre
Salinger joined in the attack and told
White House correspondents that the
inside word was that the stories from
Vietnam were the inaccurate products
of young, emotional reporters. Otto
Fuerbringer. managing editor of “Time”,
against the advice of all of his South-East
Asian team, produced a piece out of his
head which declared that the .war in
Vietnam w'as going very much better
than a group of soft, liberal, journalistic
malcontents (including, presumably, the
“Time” men) in Saigon were writing; the
suggestion was made that they could
easily find this out if they got their asses
off the bar-stools of the Caravelle Hotel
and had a look at the fighting.
There is an occasional exhibition of a
soft-centred, morally simplistic liberalism
in Halberstam’s writing but this scarcely
deserves notice in Australia. For all of
his criticisms of United States policies
he makes ho pretences about the origins
of the war:
“The new Indo-China war was not
a spontaneous uprising from the South.
It was part of a systematic and calculated
conspiracy on the part of the Com-
munist government in Hanoi to take over
the South. But it was the most subtle
kind of conspiracy, for though Hanoi
directed the war, set its pace, controlled
its overall strategy and on the inter-
national front articulated the propaganda
aims of the Vietcong . . .
“The pace was stepped up early in
1960; the Vietcong started a systematic
attack on Diem’s village officials . . .
Forty village chiefs w'ere killed in the
first week and many arms were captured.
Two types, of village chiefs were targets:
the bad and the corrupt, because in kill-
ing them the Vietcong looked like
benefactors to the population; and the
able, who represented threats to the
enemy because they were effective rep-
resentatives of the government.
“To the Vietcong, terror was an act
of discrimination. They also made
schoolteachers a prime target; hundreds
were murdered. Between 1959 and the
end of 1961 the government was forced
to close 636 schools . . . Again and again
the story was the same: brutal murders,
decapitation of village officials and
teachers in front of an entire village ..
For a couple of years after the begin-
nings of phase one of the Vietcong cam-
paign in September, 1959, the Southern
Government refused to recognise the
nature of the insurgency. It dismissed
the soaring casualty rate amongst its
MADAME NHU
officials and troops as unconnected acts
of banditry. It is at this point that
Halberstam opens his attack on the
American mission: “In late 1960 some
American officials were still pretending
that the situation in South Vietnam was
healthy, that the revolt was primarily the
work of disorganised bandits.”
Finally, the seriousness of the Com-
munist advances in the Mekong Delta
area was recognised, Kennedy sent out
General Maxwell Taylor to investigate,
and the 16,000 military “advisers” were
sent out to win the war. The Taylor
mission convinced the Administration that
the war could be won under the existing
regime provided that a huge training
programme was undertaken to equip the
Vietnamese military forces for counter-
guerrilla warfare. Taylor also suggested
the Government be led to adopt a series
of reforms to make itself more rep-
resentative, less repressive, and more
efficient in its distribution of US
economic aid.
Mistake number one, Halberstam
alleges, was the US decision ,to back and
to keep on backing the Ngo Dinh Diem
Government. Ambassador Frederick
Nolting, he claims, carried this policy
to its farthest and most disastrous depths.
Nolting believed that, because of the
psychological make-up of Diem, his
brother Ngo Dinh Nhu. and Madame
Nhu, US support for them had to be
strong and consistent. Only thus could
their confidence be won.
“The problem, was very
simple: the Ngo family wanted American
aid, American equipment, and some
American troops, but it did not want
American advice.” The aid came but
not the reforms in civil administration
and military leadership. Gentle Ameri-
can pressure in these directions provoked
a violent response from the Nhu-con-
trolled Press.. Nolting suggested that the
US ease the pressure and demonstrate
its loyalty and confidence in the wisdom
of the Saigon mandarins.
At this crucial point of time, Halber-
Rose
“A rose is a beautiful thing,”
it’s been trumpeted many times
with scarlet shrieks from tasselled
heralds.
But—really—your pinkness is incredible.
Your petals are hot-tipped, they
fade merely to gold at the base,
old petals are rouged; and, wrinkled,
they fall at a touch.
But your deep heart remains fluffy;
golden,
and could hide Thumhelina in a glowing
cave.
JENNIFER CLARKSON


jstam suggests, Ambassador Nolting, the
Ichief US military adviser, General tiar-
jkins, and the local CIA chief, John
Richardson, began to collude in a policy
| 0 f official optimism, “the idea being that
>jf the Americans expressed enough
joptimism, Diem would come to trust
Ihem and be more receptive to their
suggestions. In addition, a sensitive ad-
ministration back home wanted to hear
that it was winning the war”,
j From here on the reports of the Saigon
Correspondents to their papers began to
differ sharply from the Embassy-Military-
State Department reports to the nation.
‘Cautious optimism” seemed best
designed to suit the needs of the govern-
ments in both Saigon and Washington
iand so the Embassy-Military-CIA axis
(became only too anxious to listen to the
official propaganda of the Nhu machine.
If Nhu said that the strategic hamlet
programme was proving successful and
that the Vietcong were being swept out
,of the Delta, then that was the version
of events which went through to Wash-
ington. f
I The colonels in the field knew better,
and, despite their reputation for reluct-
iance to leave the comforts of the Saigon
Icafe life, the reporters got out in the
■fields to meet them. The descriptions
.by Halberstam of battles into which he
liccompanied American and Vietnamese
troops are extremely well done, and the
conclusions drawn from these experiences
persuasive.
i Promotion and power in the Viet-
namese Army depended largely on family
and political connections and very little
on military skill. A whole series of im-
portant Government attacks in the Delta
Jcame to nothing because the Vietnamese
commander deliberately left the Vietcong
an escape route each time: he had been
reporting to Diem and Nhu that he had
practically cleared his area of the enemy
and did not want heavy military engage-
ments because that meant the possibility
Jof numerous casualties, and the existence
of casualties would disprove his former
stories. Another problem of the Ameri-
can military advisers was to get the
Vietnamese officers to come into the
fight. One of the best American advisers,
Lt-Col John Vann, tried to set a per-
Jsonal example by walking in the field
during major engagements, but “what
Vann failed to realise was the power of
the mandarin legacy: the whole point of
being a major or a colonel was that you
didn’t have to go into the field”.
The mandarin heritage gave South
Vietnam a partly noble, partly corrupt,
but too often inept government at its hour
of maximum danger, but the question
that Halberstam does not adequately
grasp remains: so far as Western
policy is concerned has there been in
the last ten years much chance of a
better government than Diem’s? Another
and related question that Halberstam
does not take up at all is the serious
one of Communist infiltration of the
militant Buddhists.
These are serious gaps in a book
which covers the 1962-64 period, and
lead one to the conclusion that the author
has been largely concerned to trounce
his former critics. If so, he should be
happy; for trounced they are.
Indirectly, the book raises the question
of the whole orientation and style of
United States foreign policy. If the US
had gone into Vietnam with a large com-
batant force in 1960 or 1961 the Viet-
cong might well have been swept into the
China Sea in a matter of months. But
because of the nature of world opinion,
American public opinion, and the fact
that the President scarcely has time to
look at a problem unless it is somewhere
near crisis point, America has to wait
for a relatively large-scale and open
challenge to an actual or potential ally
before it can bring its fire-power to bear
on the fact of aggression. In these cir-
cumstances, a well-planned guerrilla
campaign is extremely difficult to com-
bat, and victory can be won only at the
cost of thousands of military deaths and
massive civilian suffering. The pos-
sibility of small, almost pre-emptive,
military engagements is one that now
needs serious investigation.
Instant Australiana
By M. H. ELLIS
Thomas Peel of Swan River. Alexandra
Hasluck. Oxford University Press. 60s.
Merchant Campbell, 1769-1846. Margaret
Steven. Oxford (ANU). 755.
Australian Citizen: Herbert Brookes, 1867-
1963. Rohan Rivett. Melbourne Uni-
versity Press, 655.
Uncommon Men. John Hetherington.
Cheshire. 365.
Australian Lives. Clive Turnbull. Cheshire.
30s.
Petticoat Parade. Denton Prout and Fred
Feely. Rigby. 425. 6d.
The Wearing of the Green. Edited by Bill
Hannan. Lansdowne. 50s.
TRime was when it was as hard to get a
book of Australian biography or
history published as it was to climb a
greasy telegraph pole. Not
any more. As in the topo-
graphical and scenic fields,
the “instant” and “espresso”
age has arrived. On my table
at the moment is a list of 39
of this new season’s books
that refer to Australia and
could be called biographical
or autobiographical. Some
are about important people
but are supremely unimport-
ant assembly-line jobs. Some
are the scrabhlings of parrot
historians. None is great.
Publishers don’t seem to
care any more for the quality
ROBERT CAMPBELL
of this type of book. They only seem
to consider whether they can sell a
few hundred copies at an inflated price
with the aid of a wild blurb and a
flamboyant jacket and then clear away
the used leaves before decanting the
next pot-boiling. The age when repu-
tation mattered to the Australian author
seems largely to have disappeared and
been replaced by the era in which
the main objectives are “the fast buck”
and that curious new Australian label
“Ph.D.” which is rapidly becoming in
the historical field a mark of derision.
Publishers appear to have learnt that a
known section of the public will buy
almost anything, so long as they stick
an alluring cover on it.
They print as many, or as few, copies
as they think they can force on to often
reluctant booksellers, and the fact that
small editions of ephemeral works call
for abnormally high prices doesn't seem
to give most of them even a qualm. It
has to be a pretty good popular book
to justify any customer, paying two
guineas for 250 pages of so-called
‘‘history” without an index or notes; or
even 655. demanded sometimes for
products of university presses that brave
the “popular” market.
On the table are one or two
serious bits of writing about
figures not very well known,
but worthy from the point of
view of regional interest,
especially since written by
somebody who writes well,
if soberly, like Alexandra
Hasluck, and whose research
is always carefully done. Very
few Australians outside West-
ern Australia have heard of
“Thomas Peel of Swan
River”. But he was one of
the great pioneering adven-
turers of the West, one of
the more arresting fathers of
Australian immigration and land settle-
ment; a man who was man-size : n
his own country, even with John
Forrest and his like looming more
clearly in the memories of the modern
age. Mrs Hasluck brings to the job a
genuine, natural research-worker’s zest,
patience with documents and the natural
affinity of a fifth-generation Australian
with children in the sixth for the great
pioneering families so characteristic of
early West Australian history. Her book
is as readable as her earlier one on the
exotic Lady Broome. It is adequately


provided with appendix, documents,
bibliography and index; a workmanlike
record of an historic character who
justified attention.
Plunging again into the heap we come
on Specimen No. 1 of the current
academic emanations: Margaret Steven’s
“Merchant Campbell, A Study in
Colonial Trade”. This is a solid tome of
something over 300 pages with notes
and bibliography on which Miss Steven,
a research fellow at the Australian
National University, has been working
earnestly for a number of years. Its
material is dug from a huge mass of
documentation like witchetty grubs out
of a bloodwood tree and sometimes
detached from, or irrelevant to, the
situation under review, with conclusions
arrived at on the basis of impressive-
looking figures that have no real relation-
ship to facts.
Miss Steven has acquired an immense
collection of trade figures, if not a full
understanding of them, which makes the
book useful provided one remembers to
keep the word “cave!” always in mind.
It is often needed.
When the reader discovers that, after
several years of midnight-oil and pencil-
wielding up among the post-graduate
clouds of the major Australian universi-
ties, Miss Steven is of opinion that, in
Campbell’s day, Parramatta was “a
vigorous centre 18 miles up the Parra-
matta River”, he is apt to begin to
speculate when they moved the place to
its present location.
And the readiness with which she
accepts evidence in many instances in
which it supports Campbell’s good repu-
tation, and rejects it when it might apply
to Mr Campbell’s detriment, makes one
wonder. For instance, she obviously does
not believe that a convict could be con-
cealed in a 100-ton ship “wathout con-
nivance”. But seeing that the ship, John
Macarthur’s Parramatta, involved in an
incident that sparked off the rebellion
against Bligh. before she sailed was most
carefully searched for convicts, might the
connivance have been that of the myrmi-
dons of Governor Bligh and Mr Camp-
bell, who curiously was both a large trader
and importer and the Customs Officer
most rough on rivals? I make no
charges, but the possibility was very
strongly there in the light of circumstan-
tial evidence, despite Miss Steven’s feel-
ing that Macarthur was indiscreet enough
to risk his wheat and his ship and bond.
All this is presented in paragraphs like
granite tombstones, sometimes a page and
a half long. But it is a serious work.
Now we have another famiiv
biography. Rohan Rivett depicts his
uncle-in-law who married the sister of
his own mother both daughters of
Alfred Deakin—with stealth and guile,
but with the best and most impartial
intent. '
“Australian Citizen”, he writes, on a
cover-jacket in large yellow letters, and
under it puts in smaller letters, as
if they were completely subordinate,
“Herbert Brookes, 1867-1963”. Any-
body who survived 96 years of the kind
of life that Herbert, the brother of Nor-
man, Brookes led, doesn’t need to be
labelled like a tin of jam. He was as
much like the average “Australian
citizen” as a blood horse is like a giraffe.
As I knew him in an earlier day, he
was, at first glance, a pale, seemingly
colorless survivor of several exciting
ages in history who had an inner
dynamism never excelled. His energy
was unbounded, his knowledge catholic,
his enthusiasms unlimited but controlled
and his social sense w'ell developed. A
surprising man, you began contact with
him on the basis that he was a capitalist
controller of political funds whom you
had come to ravage. Before you
succeeded you had observed several
Brookesian stages which exhibited him
successively as a competent and know-
ledgeable mining engineer, a social
visionary, a foreseeing developer of
manufacturing, a major Queensland
station owner, a natural mental diarist,
a shrewd businessman and, above all, a
courteous and charming host. I well
remember a Sunday evening, round about
the time of the 1919 Federal elections
(I think a few weeks after Alfred Deakin
had died), when I was asked to Brooke’s
home in Walsh Street, South Yarra, with
Massey Greene, for Sunday supper, and
er.joyed a perfect exhibition of his many
facets, along with a tryst w'ith Australian
Federal history Deakin’s widow and
two of his daughters were there that
evening.
Tn his day Brookes was a great, sub-
merged influence in politics behind the
scenes; but without either the talent or
yearning for public politics, or indeed for
publicity of any sort. Though his family
pulled itself up from a common emigrant
foothold to wealth and eminence, he had
the old-world air of careless authority
about him that reminded one of the well-
seated magnates of the old English
aristocracy. He was a phenomenon that
did not need a classifying label. His
annals deserved to be preserved im-
mediately before they disappeared, since
he seems to have made no conscious
stab at immortality, or at the registering
of his genuine claim to be remembered.
Far different from these three works
are the rest of the output of the pub-
lishers’ “espresso” bar submitted for
tasting. They have variety in nature and
quality. Mr John Hetherington’s “Un-
common Men” is frankly presented as
a series of thumbnail sketches of con-
temporaries (with good likenesses)
graphically done. It is attractively writtea
with care for accuracy. The book con-
trasts sharply with Clive Turnbull’s
“Australian Lives”. Some of his lives
have been pawed over ad lib till they
have the appearance of having been
carted round the agricultural shows for
a few generations and regenerated again
and again with red and yellow paint for
side-show exhibition. What of value can
be written of Paddy Hannan that could
not be w'ritten of a thousand forgotten
dry-blowers of the same vague type?—
save that he stumbled on a major gold-
field that others missed. And one is
getting rather tired of the immortal
Peter Lalor and Eureka, which is gradu-
ally being pushed into its right compart-
ment.
We have now reached down into the
levels at which Messrs Denton Prout and
Fred Feely (“Petticoat Parade”) have
their literary being between purple covers
inside which mysteriously dwell a pot-
pourri of convicts and pioneer women,
whom the authors seem to have come to
know by diving into the midst of half a
ton of newspaper cuttings and coming
out with the delusions that Dr D’Arcy
Wentworth w ; as transported as a convict,
and that Mrs Elizabeth Macarthur ought
to be nicknamed “Elizabeth of Camden”
—presumably because she never lived at
Camden, but always at Elizabeth Farm
at Parramatta and in Sydney. Her visits
of inspection to Camden, or to see her
sons, were only fleeting.
There are, of course, the usual pictures
of Port Arthur and Norfolk Island penal
settlements to enliven the work and
establish it as normal to the atmosphere
of the new “instant” and “espresso” type
of Australiana, which unfortunately is
not limited merely to biography. It also
includes “instant” tourist descriptive
literature, familiar scenes of Sydney
Harbor Bridge and Ayers Rock, and
essays in amateurism dealing with
Aboriginals.
There are “espresso” poets and we
even have the “espresso” Irish in Mr Bill
Hannan’s “The Wearing of the Green"
which is presumptuously labelled “The
lore, literature, legend and balladry of
the Irish in Australia”. It includes
numerous versions of “The Wild
Colonial Boy”, and an Australian
patriotic ballad which is pronounced as
referring to a rising in Wexford “pro-
voked by the North Cork Militia, which
destroyed the Catholic chapel at Boula-
vogue and burned many houses, includ-
ing the residence of Father John
Murphy”, provoking “the people led by
Father John Murphy, Michael Murphy,
Philip Murphy, Father Roche and Father
Kearns” to capture “Wexford, Gorey
and Inniscorthy” before being beaten at
Vinegar Hill. This deathless episode is
one of the treasures of Australian
patriotic legend.


THE
awas
AND
STILL
THE
FINEST
a
t
houchT£M
'V :
Mute 53u)t/ju >t(fy
MADE IN
WESTERN
AUSTRALIA
BY
The Gandhi of Sicily
By DESMOND O’GRADY
pjre Under the Ashes. The Life of Danilo
Dolci. James McNeish. Hodder and
Stoughton. 38s. 6d.
Before Danilo Dolci arrived in
western Sicily, the most obscene
four-letter word there was work. He
brought out the absurdity of the situation
with a strike-in-reverse in 1955 when he
had the unemployed repair a road. That
earned Dolci a prison sentence and
allowed “Time” to sum up the situation
as “Dolci Far Niente”. The prison sen-
tence and the “Time” comment were
exactly what Dolci wanted. “If they
arrest us,” he told his wife Vincenza
when leaving home on the morning of
the strike-in-reverse, “we are home and
hosed.” He knew that an arrest would
lead to Press comment throughout the
world and public opinion is one of his
best allies in the fight against Sicilian
stagnation.
Recently, Dolci gave a Press confer-
ence in Rome, accusing a Cabinet Min-
ister of Mafia links. It could have been
a dramatic performance but instead
Dolci and his colleague Frank Alasia
alternately read interviews they had con-
ducted throughout the Minister's elector-
ate. It was like a monotonous liturgy with
the manner understating the message.
Dolci, built like a wardrobe, blue-eyed,
with rimless glasses, seemed an overly-
healthy scientific investigator rather than
a man making charges which could send
either the Minister or himself to prison.
The strike-in-reverse and the Rome
Press conference showed Dolci, charac-
teristically, being a thorough nuisance to
the stalwarts of the status quo. James
McNeish traces Dolci's anti-authoritarian
attitude back to his earliest years and
outlines his developing understanding of
•the need to bring public opinion to bear
to get action on problems. But the book
leaves the impression that Dolci is far
better at highlighting problems than at
achieving their solution. This is due in
part to the fact that he can be authori-
tarian and pedantic.
i When 28-year-old Dolci arrived in
Trappeto, Scily, in 1952, he was vague
about what he wanted. To the dismay
of his Slovenian mother and his north-
ern Italian railway-employee father, he
had walked out on the final examinations
for architecture after a brilliant course
at Milan University. He had stayed for
over a year on a Catholic “kibbutz” which
still functions at Nomadelphia, north of
Rome, but finally disagreed with its foun-
der Don Zeno Saltini who sought frater-
nity among a select group rather than
social change.
Even though Dolci disagreed with Sal-
tini, he in turn established a separate
settlement outside Trappeto but aban-
doned it when he saw that the real prob-
lem was to provide work for men in the
towns. This brought him eventually to
Palermo’s slums and a realisation that
nothing could be achieved unless the
stranglehold of the Mafia on west Sicil-
ian society was broken. In other words,
Dolci’s aims have developed along with
his understanding of his task. If he had
concentrated his efforts on one project
such as the Trappeto settlement it would
have been a success but the scope of his
work would have been limited.
Dolci is a catalyst of social change,
but he needs the kind of support the
governmental anti-Mafia commission
now provides if he is to achieve anything
tangible. When the results he achieves are
so disputed there is a natural curiosity
about Dolci himself but although
McNeish provides a thorough account of
his activities from his days at Nomadel-
phia to 1964, he leaves his subject as des-
cribed by the last chapter heading
“Enigma”.
One of the difficulties is that the man
cannot be labelled. Of course, he started
as a Catholic, but he has long abandoned
the Church which in Sicily at least seems
committed to “charity”, which indirectly
supports the status quo by succoring its
victims rather than “justice”, which aims
at social change. Palermo happens to be
the see of the Church’s most voluble
reactionary, Cardinal Ruffini. But when
Bertrand Russell criticised the Vatican in
Dolci's presence, the Sicilian Gandhi
dressed down the Welsh guru, leaving
him with his teacup trembling in his
hand. Some have labelled him a Com-
munist and he dismayed supporters such
as Ignazio Silone when he accepted the
Lenin Prize after the Hungarian uprising,
but he has kept clear of the party line.
A Communist journalist reflected his
party’s enthusiasm for Dolci when he
told me that Dolci’s ten-day fasts were
undertaken not to force authorities to
agree to build needed dams but for his
own health.
A label would be handy not to classify
Dolci once and for all but to know what
values he stands for. Not only is he an
original mixture of poet, sociologist and
man of action but he at times seems in-
consistent. Although he liberally quotes
encomiums about Dolci and tries to in-
flate his subject with phrases such as
“epic personality”, McNeish is uncertain
in his ultimate estimate. But his evidence
shows the value of Dolci’s work despite
character quirks or inconsistencies. Dolci
is an educator whose unusual methods
have shown that what used to be consid-
ered fatalities are merely problems. Any
non-violent campaign for social change
can profit from his experience.
The Wrestlers
Have you ever seen the Chinese wrestlers
fighting?
They clash up against each other
dash gross, bland stomachs
literally throw their weight
around the roped-off ring;
and ridiculously stamp and utter vicious
things with their chopping hands
and boom up against one another
like ballooning, obese sea-horses,
with reared-back necks,
and ludicrous shaven-headed rolling eyes;
they lunge and heel and yellow bottoms?
%— *
hut too grotesque to laugh, only grimace
and wish for more twisted black cloth t&
conceal their blubbered nakedness,
yet underneath hysterical sweat
and fat
I smell a violent Oriental-graceful
magic that
makes me watch.
RHYLL McMASTER


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
A True Reflection
of Woolgrowers
npHERE can be no denying that the result of the woo! referendum is a true reflection
of the woolgrowers’ opinion. On any form of plural voting, giving the man with
the biggest production the biggest vote, the result would have been a landslide.
The post-mortems could obviously go
on for months. It will be asserted that
only the overwhelming “no” voice in
New South Wales carried the day and
that the victory has been achieved merely
by domination of the most powerful wool
State.
Yet even if the NSW Graziers’ Asso-
ciation led the fight against reserve price,
securing the adherence of a majority of
its members, it seems quite apparent that
many United Farmers’ members voted
against the scheme also.
Even more significant, it is patent
from the figures that the non-member
woolgrower had a prominent part in this
referendum. He had been largely ignored
throughout. Most predictions on the out-
come were confined to what this organi-
sation or that organisation said.
Some of the organisational proponents
of the scheme have counted their chick-
ens on size alone. Far too much talk got
around about who would get the “plum”
jobs. Funnily enough, mighty few small-
grower names were mentioned.
Perhaps the small grower imagined,
and with some justification, that if and
when reserve-price selling did come in,
he might be running more of the indus-
try. As the details became clearer, he
realised this was not the way it would
work out at all.
The greatest failing of the Wool
Board's “yes” case, however, was its con-
tinuously vague presentation of the
scheme’s alleged economic benefits. Men
well versed in accounting found it diffi-
cult to follow the figures. Expert and
responsible academic critics were roughly
brushed aside.
In the light of so many “ifs” and
"blits', what hope had the average wool-
grower of grasping the argument? Many
have liked better the devil they knew
than the one they did not.
It will not be surprising if some
outside observers, probably city-based,
start predicting a war of attrition between
the “yes” side and the “no” side. For-
tunately most “no” men are accepting
victory graciously and most “yes” men
are accepting defeat with a commendable
calm.
This does not mean that the “yes”
men will hide their heads (except in one
or two notable cases). They should cer-
tainly continue to work towards, and help
to establish, an industry idea of orderly
marketing.
Both sides can properly feel a little
ashamed of the bitter crossfire which
characterised the closing stages of the
reserve-price issue. Once more the NSW
Graziers’ Association should give a lead
—to heal the rifts that have taken place.
If the wool industry is to survive, the
NSW men must now pay as much atten-
tion to improvements in the free auction
system as they have to its retention.
For the reserve price plan was not
only concerned with reserve prices. There
were many other aspects of great im-
portance and, in some eyes, of greater
importance than the pricing mechanism.
The urgency of these matters remains.
1 hey relate to rosters of wool sales,
classing of one and two bale lots, im-
proved shearing and classing techniques,
elimination of buyers’ pies, and so on.
W. L VINES
R. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW
National President, Committee for the Retention
and Improvement of the Free Wool Market.
Improved research into sheep breeding
and wool quality calls urgently for strong
leadership.
Above everything, the old hornets'
nest of wool promotion cannot be
allowed to plague and divide the indus-
try much longer. The millions levied
from woolgrowers are not showing the
results anticipated by the Wool Board
and the International Wool Secretariat. ;
Put at the mildest, one corollary of the
referendum is that the Wool Industry
Conference and the Wool Board are right
out of touch with the wishes of the
majority of growers. These are soon
likely to call in question the existing
method of appointing the Conference
(which in turn appoints the Board).
The Wool Industry Conference was
entirely convinced that a majority of
growers wanted reserve price. Obviously
the majority did not. The Country Party
allied itself strongly with the plans, par-
ticularly the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr
McEwen, and the Minister for Primary
Industry, Mr Adermann.
It is not difficult to discern the strong
links between the Federal Country Party
and the Wool Industry Conference. Now
it becomes clear how the Conference
misrepresented the feeling of woolgrow-
ers, through the Country Party, to the
Government.
One plain conclusion emerges from
the whole reserve price campaign. The
woolgrowers must earnestly set to and
put their own house in order. Australia,
at this stage of its economic develop-
ment and with its external trade at this
moment under considerable pressure,
cannot afford to be diverted by the
alleged troubles of woolgrowers.


BUSINESS? Never Better!
thanks to our NORWICH UNION
STAFF RETIREMENT PLAN
By providing a fitting reward for loyal service, this Plan, which
was tailored to our own and our Staff’s needs, has brought
security and contentment to employees, and a corresponding
increase in their efficiency. Do as I did and solve your Staff
Retirement problem once and for all Contact Norwich Union.
m
7130/63/6'4
(INCORPORATED
IN ENGLAND)
Norwich Union
LIFE INSURANCE SOCIETY
A Mutual Society founded in 1808
REPRESENTED THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
A MEMBER OF THE NORWICH UNION/SCOTTISH UNION GROUP
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Trade Bill’s Bonanza
For Lawyers
Business headaches from practices' registration
THE Trade Practices Bill is passed and with it is established the biggest threat yet
posed to the hegemony of the States in the industrial field. Whether in a material
sense the intrusion of the Commonwealth materialises will depend on the testing of
the legislation in the High Court.
This will have to await, say, an action
brought by the Attorney-General against
somebody somewhere in the Common-
wealth for failing to register one of the
trade practices defined in the Bill.
Whether that trade practice is working
against the public interest as interpreted
by the Trade Practices Tribunal will be
immaterial.
The Bulletin has been in the fore
of the opposition to including the regis-
tration of trade practices in a Bill which
in other, but not all, respects was an
inevitable and in some ways desirable
adjunct to our industrial legislation.
But with registration left in we
shouldn’t fool ourselves, as the majority
of Federal Members seems to have done,
that its socially desirable motives justify
either the implicit Federal grab of State
rights or the abrupt thrust of per se
Government interference into the day-
to-day affairs of business and industry
to a degree unparalleled in any of the
States, or indeed elsewhere in the
Western world. (Registration of trade
practices in Britain, for example, is only
obligatory when ordered by the Registrar,
not, as in our Bill, compulsory for every-
body after the Act is promulgated.)
One of the most pathetic aspects of the
Parliamentary debate on the Bill has
been the refusal of the moralisers (one
can include the Attorney-General as well
as the ALP among these) to give an inch
to the few who appeared to understand
exactly what the registration provisions
entail, that is, Part V (Sections 40-45) in
conjunction with Section 91. The true
import of these sections was spelt out by
several Liberal Members (one at least
of whom wanted Part V to be dropped
altogether). The Attorney-General had
no effective answer.
Once the case for compulsory registra-
tion is conceded, admittedly Mr Snedden
is quite right in closing any loopholes
for evasion of the obligation, even on
grounds of reasonable doubt, which one
of the debated amendments sought to
have included. He is on firm ground
there (however many unfortunate cases
one can conjure up as victims of com-
pulsion) because, business being business,
such a gateway would get jammed with
the traffic. On the other hand, Sir Wil-
frid Kent Hughes put his finger plumb
on the most painful spot for business,
which lies in the Section 91 definition of
agreements that must be registered.
Paraphrasing this section, it means
that all vertical trade practices (as
distinct from the merely examinable
horizontal agreements between parties
on the same level of the distributive
process) must be registered “whether
formal or informal and whether express
•or implied”, under a penalty of $2OOO
for failing to do so. All alibis are ruled
out by the wide coverage of practices in
the Bill which includes, inter alia, refer-
ences to agreements made outside Aus-
tralia. At one time last year Mr Sned-
den said he envisaged there would be less
than -a thousand separate registrable
practices. He is not claiming this today;
the general feeling is that under the
definition in the Bill the number will
run into many thousands as businessmen
all over the country search their records
and their consciences.
Nor should they be under any illusion
that this machinery of compulsory regis-
tration is an innocent lamb intended
merely to throw up possible cases of
trade practices operating against the
public interest. The Attorney-General
has been quite specific about his inten-
tions — as The Bulletin has warned
before this that he sees registration
as the one preferable process by which
the Commissioner can find out what goes


CHEVRON HOTEL’S
GOLDEN GRILL
Compliments your good taste
In an atmosphere of gracious
living, the food, cellar and service
are supreme. Whether in a hurry
or with time to tarry, the service
keeps pace with your wishes. A
snack, a sumptuous repast, a cof-
fee, an aperitif, all are available
from morn till midnight. The
menu is varied, reasonable in cost,
and handsomely presented. The
wine list is recognised as one of
the most comprehensive in Aus-
tralia. In the evening Alexander
Grant’s ensemble provides plea-
sant background music and invites
your personal request. The inex-
pensive luxury of the GOLDEN
GRILL is yours all day, every
day.
For table reservation s phone 35.0433
CHEVRON HOTEL
MACLEAY STREET. POTT S POINT, SYDNEY.
CHEV/t9983
on in business. In posing the only alter-
native process to be that of investigation
he has consistently neglected the sugges-
tion that there is another one: that is,
public complaint coupled with investiga-
tion (if considered warranted) as used
in both Canada and New Zealand.
Maybe, as the Bill ensures, all this in-
formation gleaned from business through
the registration of practices is tn be con-
fidential to the Commissioner. But why
must it be put on record at all?
Whether the new Act is proved con-
stitutionally valid in the States or not
it is clear that businesses will have to
proceed with arrangements to conform
with its registration provisions, though
possibly one could expect a considerable
period of grace to be granted by the
Attorney-General. It is going to take
his department some time to make the
necessary appointments, recruit staff, set
up the necessary machinery and get it
in moffon. I imagine that one of the first
tasks will be to get the register going.
In the twilight period while the
machinery for registration is being set
up, the business community has the
invidious task of ascertaining whether
the myriad of practices and agreements
governing its complicated affairs needs
to be registered. The debate threw up
two diametrically opposed views about
this. Some speakers aga ; nst registration
maintained there would be utter con-
fusion in the business world as to what
was registrable or not. For his part, the
Attorney-General was adamant that the
distinction between registrable practices
(the vertical ones) and agreements
which would be merely examinable but
not require registration (the horizontal
ones) was clear-cut and there could be
no confusion about the difference.
However, one would imagine that
businessmen, looking at that penalty of
2000 dollars for failing to register a
registrable trade practice and knowing
that absolutely no excuse will be ac-
cepted for the failure (the amendment
seeking a gateway on this being defeated)
and that failure will (under Mr Whit-
lam’s successful amendment) be a con-
tinning offence, will obviously be co«.
cerned to take the greatest pains to
satisfy the new requirement, the more
so since implied agreements are in-
cluded. The only way most businessmen
will see to satisfy themselves wiil be to
take legal advice. If such advice turns
out to be bad this will, of course, be no
defence against a failure to register, but
if they are wise they wiil get legal advice
all the same.
This is going to mean a bonanza for
lawyers. Already many firms have put
their business arrangements under the
legal microscope in expectation of the
Bill being passed. A host of others ate
going to run into an awful bottleneck in
solicitors' offices in the next few months.
This behoves Mr Sncdden to make that
period of grace as long as possible.
CROESUS
The Price of Bread
A victim of flexible interest rates
Melbourne “Herald's” economist was entitled to have his field day last week
when spotting that 4d. out of the 9d. increase in the home consumption price of
wheat could be nailed to higher interest charges in wheat farmers’ costs as calculated
by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics.
Nobody has been more consistent in
disavowing the virtues of high interest
rates as a means of containing economic
effervescence nor those of punitive in-
creases in taxation for the same purpose.
This is not necessarily to say he is right.
Before reaping his harvest of satisfac-
tion he could possibly have gone a little
deeper into the containment effects on
other costs arising 'from high interest
rates, because these could be consider-
able. Of course if they were not sub-
stantial, his case is made. The same sort
of considerations enter into the appli-
cation of his argument to housing, which
we also hear from him from time to
time. Undoubtedly one can isolate the
effects of high interest rates on housing
costs; it is not so easy to isolate the
dampening effects of high interest rates
on other cost items entering into housing.
There will always be arguments about
whether the same object of economic
containment can be effected as well by
quantitative controls over credit as by
interest rate flexibility. Nobody needs
reminding, however, that we have a very
dangerous propensity here for the fringe
financiers to negative the usefulness of
quantitative credit controls, as they did,
say, in 1960, when these were used
almost exclusively by the authorities in
their unsuccessful monetary policy con-
tainment exercises to the virtual neglect
of interest rate changes. If the ultimate
resort to anything immediately in hand
in the monetary and fiscal armories to
stop the rot in 1960-61 proved anything,
it was that here a judicious mixture of
interest rate policy and quantitative credit
controls is a far better way of proceed-
ing than by quantitative credit controls
alone.
Certainly the outworkings of higher
interest rates as now the
possibility that they are going to mean an
increase in the price of bread or rents
are to be regretted. But a balance has to
be struck. It may be that the notional
price increases in other cost elements
mitigated as a result of the increase in
interest rates are too hypothetical for
Saturday evening consumption. But they
have to be considered seriously on Mon-
day mornings when paying the baker
with a stiff upper lip.
Of course once a high rate of interest
has done its general job of dampening
excessive investment ardor, there is abso-
luteiy no point in keeping it so high,
always providing that the balance of pay-
ments prospects permit an internal re-
laxation. (One swallow doesn't make
summer in the balance of payments,
though!) Indeed it is positively against
the best interests of the economy not to
start engineering interest rates to lower
levels in these circumstances and even a
little ahead of the general expectations of
business, especially when there is unde-
niable evidence of excess inventory
accumulation (as now) or of emerging
indigestion in fixed investment (a much
more difficult possibility to assess at this
juncture, because, while the evidence of
slowing in some industries is strong, it is
offset by considerable buoyancy in
others).


NEW ADDITION TO
9
RANGE OF TABLE WINES
ST. CORA
WHITE
BURGUNDY
The new addition to Lindeman’s
popular range of Table Wines is
a pleasant dry white wine with a
soft round character and flavour.
It will accompany all sea foods,
salads and light meat dishes, and
is best served chilled.
ten ki\ t.. .aim*
»
L INDEMANS
S'CORA, WHITE
BURGUNDY
> ,xtf#
DR H. C. COOMBS
A little diverted perhaps by the
Threadneedle Street plum-duff dangled
in the pages of the “Economist” for him,
Dr Coombs will be spending Christmas
canvassing the possibility that early in
the New Year he will have to recognise
the time is ripening for a reversal of the
high interest rate policy. This would be
the logical follow-up to the first of an
expected series of releases of special de-
posits made last week and would conform
to the general spirit of the Reserve Bank’s
new feeling that housing needs a lift. If
precedent as established in the last few
years is a guide I would expect this to be
delayed for some months yet (probably
to early April, when it would technically
be more expedient), especially if the
Federal Treasurer (as one might expect)
comes on to the flagging demand front
with a bolstering “little Budget”, say late
January, to help for one the motor in-
dustry.
It is an open question whether there
will be any early action on official interest
rates. For the time being it seems to be
the intention to concentrate on the grad-
ual relaxation of quantitative controls on
credit. The big question is how far this
by itself will be successful in stimulating
borrowing in circumstances when the
stocks situation is unfavorable, order
books have lightened, and when we are
running into the holiday months when
business is seasonally slack. The authori-
ties would possibly hope that the more
liberal availability of credit soon begins
to exert a lowering influence on com-
mercial interest rates, which up to now
have maintained a very firm front. Their
hopes could well be fulfilled as the fuller
supply may counter a lower demand.
Any downward movement in com-
mercial rates in the new year would
obviously be encouraged by the Reserve
Bank to run on until the climate was
right for open market operations to edge
down bond yields, in possible preparation
for some small reduction in the rates on
the February loan. A few months ago
this might have seemed a bold target, but
a noticeable change has occurred in the
outlook for the bond market. The stamp
was put on this by the successful Novem-
ber loan; even given the massive conver-
sion operations coming up, it might well
be possible for the authorities to chip a
fraction from the interest rates accorded
in the last loan. A better trend in savings
banks deposits encourages this idea,
though against this the savings banks are
also being enjoined to put more into
housing loans with the implication
that this could well be at the expense of
subscriptions to imminent bond issues.
All this is conjecture and it may well
be that for the rest of the year caution
will remain the keynote of the approach
to loan raisings. In any event, I would
imagine that, if the business world fails
to take up any additional credit being
made available, the Reserve Bank would
take it that this was a sign that bank
interest rates needed adjustment. Such a
notion would almost certainly receive the
support of the Government, anxious lest
economic activity fail to respond to any
measures it might take in the fiscal sphere
to get things moving more rapidly in the
private sector.
This would doubtless receive the bless-
ing of the “Herald's” economist and a
good few others besides. Whether it
would in its turn bring a reduction in the
price of bread, from the level we have
been warned it will reach as a result of
the Bureau of Agricultural Economics’
latest statistical survey of wheat farmers’
costs, is another matter. On the most
favorable interpretation, the higher price
envisaged for bread will stick whatever
happens to interest rates in the next year
before the Bureau goes into action again.
From bitter experience, if interest rates
should fall, by this time next year the
bakers will be able to claim that other
costs apart from the price of flour have
gone up and closed the avenue for lower
bread prices. The “Herald” certainly has
a popular point.


Extracts from Directors’ Report and Accounts 1965
A*N*Z
I** * I
w
A*N*Z BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
“The surge in imports resulting from the strong
internal demand came at a time when the terms of
trade, mainly because of lower wool prices, were
moving against Australia,” states Sir Geoffrey C.
Gibbs, K.C.M.G., in his statement to the share-
holders of A.N.Z. Bank. “On capital account, net
receipts fell only slightly despite moves by the main
suppliers, the United Kingdom and the United
States, to reduce their global capital outflows.”
Mineral Developments- After commenting at some
length on the important developments taking place
in Australia, particularly in the mineral fields, Sir
Geoffrey concludes “The mineral exports will aid
Australia’s balance of payments for many years to
come; the growth in steel and alumina production
reflects the general maturity of the Australian in-
dustrial scene; while the benefits of cheap indigenous
energy supplies, if they eventuate, will of course be
great. Australia indeed seems about to enter a new
and exciting phase of its economic development.”
Banking- Referring to the Bank’s business The
Chairman said “the delicate balance of a fully em-
ployed economy has called for careful control by
the authorities, who, as in past years, have chosen
the trading banks as the principal medium for limit-
ing the growth in expenditure. This monetary control
has affected the trend of our advances, and the
composition of our deposits.”
“Demand from all sectors for overdraft accommo-
dation was heavy during the year, stimulated by a
contraction of inter-company financing, higher stock
levels, a noticeable lengthening of trade credit, and
drought conditions. Because of these factors, and
despite restraint on our new lending (as required by
Reserve Bank policy and pressure on our liquidity),
the upward trend in our Australian advances con-
tinued during the year.”
Decade of Savings Banking- “In January next, the
Savings Bank will have completed the first 10 years
of its operations. Splendid progress has been made
and we look forward with confidence to further
steady expansion.”
CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEET
as at 30th September, 1965
(ABRIDGED, EXCLUDING INTER-BANK BALANCES)
ASSETS
£A
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash
at Bankers 29,920,834
Balances with Other Banks and
Cheques in course of Collection 34,018,155
Money at Call and Short Notice,
Treasury Notes and Treasury Bills 19,822,748
Statutory Deposits with Central
Banks 55,838,847
Investments 180,256,198
.
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in Transit 111,266,544
Loans and Advances to Customers
and other Accounts 326,465,581
Liabilities of Customers for Accept-
ances and other Engagements .... 65,746,872
Bank Premises ..„ 13,407,196
£A836,742,975
LIABILITIES
£A
Paid up Capital of Australia and
New Zealand Bank Limited .... 19,327,000
Reserve Fund and Profit and Los 3
'
Account Balances 17,272,193
Current, Deposit and other Accounts 734,396,910
Acceptances and other
Engagements for Customers .... 65,746,872
GENERAL MANAGER’S OFFICE FOR AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, FIJI, PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA:
394-396 Collins Street, Melbourne —C. R. Darvall, General Manager
PRINCIPAL OFFICE IN NEW ZEALAND: 196 Featherston Street, Wellington
HEAD OFFICE: 71 CornhiU, London, E.C.3
Operating through 1102 Branches, Sub-Branches and Agencies
!.38


King George IV
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
simply superb
There is nothing simple in being
“simply superb.” King George IV Old
Scotch Whisky is hailed by discrim-
inating palates the world over. Born
in the majestic blend of finest High-
land Malt and other Scotch Whiskies.
Matured to mellow perfection in
seasoned wood. King George IV—the
legendary Old Scotch Whisky that’s
“simply superb.” And, my friend . . .
that caps it!
in sc<
Geof!
The Distillers Agency Ltd., (Inc. in Great Britain)
9520
KG28102
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Agriculture and Official Policy
A call for correct priorities
By BRUCE DAVIDSON
(Senior Lecturer in Agricultural Economics, University of Sydney)
rrHE changes which have taken place in Australian agriculture since the Second
A World War are probably as important as any which have occurred in the past.
During this period the virus myxomatosis has brought the nation’s major enemy, the
rabbit, under control for the first time in history.
This, coupled with the widespread use
of improved pastures and superphos-
phate, has enabled Australia’s sheep
flocks to increase from 100 to 150 mil-
lions. In most areas where improved pas-
ture can be established, twice the exis-
ting number of sheep can be carried.
Thus the present increase in flock num-
bers can be looked on as the beginning of
an even greater increase.
The use of rotations containing the
nitrogen-fixing legume, subterranean
clover, has increased the average yield of
Australia’s wheat crops. Yields are now
one third higher than those obtained in
the pre-war period.
In the ten years between 1950-53 and
1960-63, Australia’s wool and wheat
production increased by 50 p.c. and beef
and mutton production increased by 48
p.c. Increases in the output of wool,
wheat and meat, the products which ac-
count for 60 p.c. of Australia's gross
agricultural output and 74 p.c. of all
rural exports, were achieved with little
or no support from the Government. In
addition, profitable markets have been
found for these products.
Yet these advances have passed almost
unnoticed while public attention has been
focused on minor crops which can only
be produced with large subsidies, often
on spectacular irrigation projects sus-
tainable only if the capital works are writ-
ten off at the commencement of the
scheme. The actual level of subsidy paid
to primary producers in the form of a
home support price or as direct grants or
bounties is seldom disclosed. Dairy far-
mers receive £25.1 millions a year, a
sum equal to 40 p.c. of the value of
butter produced. Sugar growers are paid
£13.8 millions a year, which is 26 p.c.
of the value of sugar produced in Aus-
tralia. Tobacco producers are subsidised
to the extent of £4.5 millions, or 50 p.c.
of the value of their product. In recent
years the Commonwealth Government
has agreed to pay a subsidy of up to
£2 million per annum to cotton growers.
In the years 1960-63, cotton farmers re-
ceived a subsidy equal to 77 p.c. of the
value of the cotton crop.
The sugar industry, which has required
a subsidy in the form of a home support
price for over sixty years, was allowed
to expand in 1964-65. No attempt has
been made to come to grips with a large,
uneconomic dairy industry, although
economists in Australian universities
have suggested practical solutions. The
cry of “develop the north” or “provide
water for our dry continent” appeals to
the public. On the other hand, the pro-
gress which has been achieved and the
future potential of our traditional wool,
meat and wheat industries arouse little
interest. Few people seem to realise
than the wheat belt, with an average an-
nual rainfall ranging from 30 inches in
Queensland to 10 inches in Western Aus-
tralia, produces more than one third of
Australia’s agricultural output.
Australia became a great agricultural
nation because techniques were developed
which enabled large areas of land where
rainfall was uncertain to be farmed with
a small labor force. Water and land are
only two of the resources needed in
agricultural production. Labor and
capital are also scarce and expensive in
Australia, and it is important that they
should be employed where the greatest
returns will be obtained. The most ob-
vious way not to employ labor and
capital is in producing cotton, sugar,
and rice crops which require annual
subsidies to support them. Financial sup-
port for these products is normally jus-
tified by the claim of import saving. But
a 12 p.c. expansion in the export of
wool, beef, mutton and wheat would be
greater than the total value of cotton,
rice, sugar and tobacco consumed in Aus-
tralia. In the decade between 1950-53
and 1960-63 wool exports increased by
56 p.c., wheat exports by 96 p.c., and
beef and mutton exports by 117 p.c.
If Australian agriculture is to play its
proper role in the economy it is essential
that the correct priority is given to dif-
ferent projects. Projects which give the
greatest return from the labor and capital
employed should be undertaken first,
while those which have lower returns
should be undertaken later. Some of the
projects which have been suggested
would produce an output worth less than
the annual cost of the capital and labor
used by them. These should not be com-


OPUS BOOKSHELF
SYSTEM
Brilliant treble and dis-
tortion-free bass reproduction is
assured by the remarkable Opus
radio amplifier, the heart of this
system. Speaker cabinets
each containing three speakers are
for vertical or horizontal setting.
Complete with record changer
TWSO4 (not shown).
lljllllll
iliiii'-iiii
111
! i <1; in i !li ■ii i; liiiii''.■!*
r
m
jufijta <jnnu <uj
KLBS
A monaural two-track recorder with facilities and
performance to satisfy the most discriminating.
Features solenoid operation mixing facilities,
superimpose, remote control, 30-18,000 c.p.s.,
6 watt push-pull output, 31 and 7± i.p.s., two
speakers.
TELE
TV
FUN
to
KEN
>means a world of progress
v For six decades Telefunken has led the field with
new achievements in the world of sound—2,ooo scientists
working in Telefunken laboratories maintain that lead. This
policy of progress and research gave the world the first
tape recorder and assures you of up-to-the-minute design
and lasting quality in all Telefunken products.
For comprehensive catalogues on radios, radio-
grams, tape recorders or record players, write to
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
W. C. WEDDERSPOON PTY. LTD.
193 Clarence Street. Box 3597, G.P.0., SYDNEY
W.A.: Musgroves Ltd., Perth.
S.A.: Ernsmiths Ltd., Adelaide.
A.C.T.: David Jones, Canberra.
QLD.: Hendrix Eiectrix, Brisbane.
Finney isles, Brisbane.
ViC.: Rekla-Efectro Sound, Prahran.
menced unless changes in techniques or
prices alter this situation
Recent research work indicates that
returns ranging from 30 to over 100 p.c.
per annum can be obtained from capital
invested in improvements in fencing and
water, and in establishing improved
pastures in different sheep-raising areas
in Australia. These returns are far
higher than the substantial returns of
8 to 15 p.c. which are expected from
clearing the brigalow scrub in Queens-
land, establishing beef roads in northern
Australia, or in developing new wheat
land in Western Australia.
in spite of credit being made avail-
able by the Development Bank, pasture
and capital improvements on existing
farms which yield higher returns than
the new development schemes mentioned
are not proceeding as rapidly as might
be expected. A possible reason is that
farmers have difficulty in obtaining
capital to purchase livestock after they
have carried out improvements. Un-
limited finance for purchasing livestock
could lead to inflated livestock prices,
yet a controlled scheme of cheap credit
could encourage breeding and lead to a
rapid increase in livestock numbers.
While the State might not be giving
the correct priority to agricultural
ventures which give a satisfactory return
on the capital invested in them, it is even
more disturbing when a nation uses its
labor and capital resources for schemes
where low or negative returns are ex-
pected or for projects where the possible
returns have never been estimated. The
returns which could be expected from
irrigation in the Coleambally area, and
on the Ord River area, were never
assessed before these projects were
undertaken. Recent research suggests that
they will be low, or even negative in
the case of the Ord River Scheme.
gvEN more important than commencing
individual projects without a
full investigation of their economic
potential is the tendency of governments*
both State and Federal, to oppose any
independent economic investigation and
to refuse to publish the results of govern-
ment investigations. The Vernon Com-
mittee suggested that all government-
supported projects should be investigated
by an independent economic body whose
findings would be published. The Prime
Minister claimed that the implementation
of such a suggestion would usurp the
powers of Parliament. Sir Robert Men-
zies either failed to understand that such
an enquiry would only report on the
economic aspects of any proposed pro-
ject and would have no power to decide
whether the project would be proceeded
with, or he feared that certain projects
would be condemned by the public if
they were fully aware of the economic
implications It is astonishing that,
although ten years of scientific research
into the physical problems of farming in
the Ord River area preceded the decision
to build major irrigation work in that
region in 1958, no economic assessment
of the scheme was carried out until after
the work on the diversion dam had com-
menced.
The whole question of major develop-
ment schemes in Australia is complicated
by the provision of Commonwealth
grants to the States for specific projects.
If the Commonwealth is prepared to
supply the initial capital for a particular
scheme and to pay an annual subsidy m
the form of a bounty or a home support
price for the crop or animal products
produced by the scheme, then the
recipient State benefits. However, other
projects in other States may yield greater
returns if the same amount of labor and
capital were invested in them.
The same lack of knowledge is re-
vealed in the present Commonwealth
plan to give financial aid to the Queens-
land and NSW Governments for drought
relief. All independent investigations


GMAC
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN U.S.A. LIMITED LIABILITY)
UNSECURED NOTES
0
li 0
0
SIX
YEARS
NINE
YEARS
TWELVE
YEARS
SHORT TERM
For your copy of the Prospectus and Application Form contact:
Members of the Stock Exchanges
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra
Applications will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to in and at-
tached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
1.294
suggest that the normal grazier’s policy
of selling stock or even allowing stock
to die and restocking after the drought
is a sound economic decision from the
grazier’s point of view. Practically
nothing is known of the economic effect
of drought losses on the national
economy. Yet the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment considers that State support for
drought - stricken graziers is a sound
economic policy.
Independent investigations of the pro-
posed wool marketing scheme suggest
that it will have little effect on price
variations and could endanger the whole
wool industry. Even in these circum-
stances, where Australia’s major industry
is at stake, the Commonwealth Govern-
ment has simply stated thar it will support
the scheme if the graziers agree to it.
Under these circumstances it is not
surprising that many development
schemes in Australia have ended in
disaster or have only survived because
they are supported by State subsidies.
The settlement of the mallee lands in
the 19205. the group settlement scheme
in Western Australia, and the recent
attempt to produce rice at Humpty Doo
in the Northern Territory are merely
the more spectacular failures. Even the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Scheme, which
is often held up as a model of planned
agricultural development, has an annual
return of less than four p.c. on the capita]
initially invested in it.
HHhe tendency to proceed with schemes
without investigating their economic
aspects appears to rise from the belief
that all Australian agricultural develop-
ment would have been condemned if it
had been submitted to conventional
economic analysis. Nothing could be
further from the truth. The initial
pastoral development in Australia and
closer settlement in the 1860 s would
have been considered desirable if they
had been subjected to modern economic
analysis. It is true that farmers in the
1860 s had low incomes, but there was
no alternative form of employment.
Capital and labor were being put to their
best use. There also appears to be a
school of thought which suggests that,
providing a project is technically feasible,
it will be economically viable. The list
of unsuccessful projects is proof of the
fallacy of this belief.
While Australian agriculture has
developed rapidly in the last two decades
as a result of scientific research and
farmer initiative, the Government has
failed to realise the full economic
potential of this advance. This failure
appears to arise from a lack of economic
research into the possibilities of suggested
projects and plans. Independent economic
research does not receive the encourage-
ment it warrants; where economic re-
search is undertaken by the Government
itself, the results are often denied to the
public and to research workers.
Both State and Federal Governments
should realise that wise decisions can
only be made where complete informa-
tion is available and information is in-
complete unless data concerning the
economics of the decision are included.
Economic research, like any other form
of research, can only be carried out in
a free environment. The results of
economic investigations, whether they
are undertaken by State or independent
authorities, must be published. Without
published results the public is unable to
make a rational decision and other re-
search workers in the same field are
unable to contribute the criticism and
additional knowledge which is essential
if wise decisions are to be made.


MERCANTILE
CREDITS LTD.
Incorporated in 1935
Paid up Capital £4,000,000
Debenture
Stock
YIELDING UP TO
3 mths.
6 mths,
12 mths.
2 yrs. . .
. . 5% p.a.
si/ 2 % p.a.
. . 6% p.a,
.. 7% p.a.
3 yrs. .. 7*4% P- a -
-4 yrs. . . 7i/ 2 % p.a.
5 yrs. .. 7%% p.a.
6 to 10 yrs. 8% p.a.
Prospectuses and Forms of Applications
are obtainable from:
© Any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange in Australia.
® Any branch cf Australia and New Zealand
Bank Ltd.
® The Hongkong Bank Group Representa-
tive Office, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
© Any branch of Mercantile Credits Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
10-14 UNDERWOOD STREET, SYDNEY
N.B. Applications for Debenture Stock will pro-
ceed only on one of the Forms of Application
referred to in and attached to a printed copy of
the Prospectus.
The main business of Mercantile Credits Limited
is the provision of finance facilities in various forms
for industrial, commercial or private purposes.
1901/65S
DROUGHT RELIEF
10% discount to Primary
Producers in drought areas on
ANTIQUES, GIFTS, HOME
FURNISHINGS
purchased until Ist March,
1966, at
GRAFTON GALLERIES
Double Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.
AGRISEARCH
The Hope of the Sand Country
A new legume in Western Australia
A variety of Ornithopus compressus,
popularly known as “WA serradella”,
is alrea-dy established as a pasture legume
on a few thousand acres of coastal sand
country. It promises to become widely
grown because it is able to flourish in the
deep, coarse sands now being rapidly
developed in the West. This legume pro-
vides high-value grazing and also makes
good hay and silage.
Chemical analysis indicates that it does
not contain oestrogenic hormones as do
the subclovers which, consequently, are
causing serious breeding problems in
livestock, especially sheep. Nor have
there been any such complaints from the
farmers who have had stock depastured
on serradella. Moreover, no serious
diseases are known to attack it; insect
pests such as the red-legged earth mite
and the lucerne flea, which frequently
destroy clover and lucerne fields, prefer
to leave serradella alone. However, large
numbers of certain seed-eating insects
have appeared on a few occasions in ex-
perimental plots when the plant was at
the green pod stage. These insects have
not yet been identified. Whether they rep-
resent a threat to broad acre swards has
not been assessed yet, either. Another
important advantage possessed by this
legume is that its root-nodule bacteria
are persistent. In other words, it is not
prone to "second-year mortality”, which
often causes the collapse of stands of
clovers and medics on many of the sandy
soils. Serradella is nodulated by the same
organism as lupins, so a suitable strain
of bacteria for inoculating the seed is
readily available commercially.
The main practical problem to over-
come has been poor germination. More
than 90 per cent of the seeds in ordinary
samples usually fail to germinate. How-
ever, it is now known that this figure
may be brought down to less than 50 per
cent by subjecting the seed to heat treat-
ment before sowing. A simple technique
suggested is to spread the seed in a thin
layer on the ground under a sheet of clear
plastic during summer. Hulling and scari-
fying the seed during cleaning should
also have the same effect, since it has
been found that germination is mainly
prevented simply by the seed-coat being
impermeable to water. Probably serra-
della would be much more wildly estab-
lished today had not farmers been
disappointed by the naturally poor strike
after sowing. -v.
Nevertheless, farmers themselves rec-
ognised the potential value of serradella
sooner than the professional agronomists.


FROM
OCTOBER 31:
CANADIAN PACIFIC FLIES
A 3rd ROUTE TO EUROPE!
NOW! TWICE-WEEKLY DC-8
JET SERVICES-MONTREAL
TO AMSTERDAM!
Canadian Pacific opens a third route to Europe! Now, there are Super DC-8 services
from Vancouver, Canada’s gateway to North America, via the Polar Route to Europe!
You can fly DC-8 to Lisbon and Madrid from Montreal. And now, Canadian Pacific
introduces a third route, from Montreal to Amsterdam. There are two new Super DC-8
services weekly! Want more details? Then call your travel agent.
Offices: Sydney, Melbourne, and around the world. Contact Ansett-ANA (General Sales
Agents) or your travel agent. Air cargo carried on all flights.
AIRLINES
Incorporated in Canada, liability of members limited. Planes/Trains/Ships/Trucks/
Hotels/Telecommunications. World’s most complete transportation system.
iH
i 1
-
I
1
Ten years ago Mr W. M. Pitman, farm-
ing in the Waroona district some 80 miles
south of Perth, began offering seed for
sale. Other farmers around Gingin-Dan-
daragan and at Esperance have also had
several years’ experience with it and are
convinced that it is well suited to the
light lands that receive 20 inches of rain.
It may prove more productive than the
other available legumes in even drier
country. More recently Dr J. S. Glad-
stones, at the University of Western Aus-
tralia, has been leading scientific studies
of serradella. He, too, considers that this
plant is destined to fill a valuable place
in agriculture in the West at least.
Partly because serradella is being re-
garded as “the hope of the sand,
country”, new blocks lately offered for
selection have been keenly sought by
alert land-developers. Some farmers have
already managed to get even the form-
erly worthless banksia sands to support
one breeding sheep to the acre by plant-
ing serradella.
When or from where the species came
to Western Australia is not known. It
may have arrived before the First World
War from one of the Mediterranean
countries of which it is a native. Another
species, O. sativus, which also occurs in
WA but which does not yield well there
under grazing, has been appreciated in
Portugal for over a hundred years. It is
now widely cultivated as a forage legume
on sandy acid soils in northern Europe
and more recently has been adopted by
farmers in South Africa, the Congo and
Kenya. This species has a pink flower,
but the WA serradella is distinguished
readily by its yellow flower. The plant
resembles the vetches but has finer stems
and leaves.
Mouldy Hay
Oheep and cattle, both young and old,
like, and thrive on, mouldy hay. This
surprising finding has been reported from
the Victorian Department of Agricul-
ture’s Pastoral Research Station at Hamil-
ton. The risk of poisoning is stated to be
very slight. These views appear to be
based on practical experiences rather
than scientific experimentation.
For instance, on one occasion bales,
almost black with mould, were left in
small stacks ir a 40-acre paddock until
they could be collected and dumped.
Meanwhile, sheep were turned in to graze
the fresh, green aftermath. They ignored
the new growth, but entirely consumed
the “spoiled” hay. In another paddock
bales reckoned to consist of up to 80
per cent of waste hay made during ex-
periments on the baling of improperly
cured hay were also eaten, although
there was plenty of good-quality, stand-
ing, dry feed. Feeding experiments have
also been carried out in which such hay
has been provided as the sole ration over
long periods. Sheep and cattle have
made greater weight gains on it than
similar stock given unmoulded grass hay
which was made later in the season.
The explanation suggested is that
mouldy hay usually results from early
cut pasture which has been rained on
either in the swathe or windrow before
it can be baled. At cutting, the protein
content of this pasture and its digesti-
bility are much higher than in mid-season
or late-cut pasture. Apparently, mould-
ing reduces feed value less than the
natural maturation process. Farmers,
therefore, ought go ahead and bale rain-
damaged hay, especially if it was cut
early. Further deterioration can be
avoided by making lighter than normal
bales. Many farmers refrain from mow-
ing early while the weather is unpredic-
table. In view of the Hamilton results
this policy could now be reconsidered.


Clatter of Money-making
The whirl of pin-balls and juke-boxes
By PAUL COOMBES
TF a survey was conducted to list Australia’s most sensitive industries, a major plaee-
A getter would be the local pin-ball and jake-box business. Operators resent people
prying into their affairs.
Despite the semi-secret nature of the
service, there is irony in this situation,
because each operator seems to know
what the competition is doing and is
willing to talk about “the other bloke”.
Ask an operator how many machines he
runs and the stock answer is, “Well that’s
rather pertinent”.
* . , u j u.
An ex-operator described the business
.., , . .
as sensitive, secretive and low on trust.
~ a t
One sound reason for this is the amount
, . .. ~
of money to be split up annually among
Australia’s 156 operators. Each year
. t£ j ■ *
about £l.sm. is fed into the machines.
Perhaps the size of the income could
account for some of the resentment and
the slightly aggressive attitude that ques-
tions about the industry meet. Operators
tend to feel any publicity about the m-
dustry must inevitably be bad publicity.
They claim that the Press has used them
as a scapegoat in the past. But a check
on cuttings relating to the industry shows
this to be a ridiculous overstatement.
Periodic attempts have been made to
ban pin-tables, as at Parramatta and Fair-
field. They usually come to nothing,
though they may cause a little heart-
burning before they fade away to the
sound of the machines’ merry money-
making clatter.
Informed guesses set the number of
pin-ball and juke-box machines currently
in use at between three and four thous-
and each. Average earnings from a
"flipper-table are £5 a week and £lO a
week from the boxes. Well-sited machines
can earn U P t° £2O and £4O. Most opera-
tors com bine tables and boxes, since
location and ease of service are key fac-
x. . ,
tors in the business,
~.,, . , . .
A location break-up shows that juke-
,. 1 \
boxes at the best sites can earn about
„ <n , ... , . ..
«0 a week, although they are usually at
holiday resorts and don t work at peak
T . .
through the year. The average city hotel
location gives about £9 a week, milk-
bars £ls> and some coffee shops £22 .
Operators stress, however, that there is
a wide variation in these figures,
All “flipper-tables” imported by
three djstri butors and cost about £420.
Locally made juke-boxes from AMI and
Rockola sell to operators for about £BOO
and j be imported Seeburg sells at £1295.
They have a four to five year life.
Machines are usually bought for cash or
on hire-purchase, though a few are sub-
ject to leasing arrangements,
Firms employ an average of three
mechanics at about £25 a week. Annual
payments per machine include mechani-
cal performing rights to record com-
panies £1 Is., insurance £5, and £2 10s.
to the Australian Performing Rights As-
sociation. This is paid in a blanket cover
of £2500 annually by the Amusement
Machine Operators’ Association. It is
understood that new contracts are being
negotiated or have just been signed.
Operators who don’t belong to the as-
sociation must pay £8 Bs. a year per
machine. The other main cost is for the
two to three records changed each week
on the boxes. Cost of these is 7s. Id.
each.
There are 63 operators in New South
Wales, 32 in Queensland, 28 in Victoria,
20 in South Australia, 13 in Western
Australia and three in Tasmania. The
three biggest operators in New South
Wales, with about 300 machines each,
are A. Hankin and Co. Pty Ltd, which
operates from the Hawkesbury River to
the northern border, Goddard Distribu-
ting Co. Pty Ltd and Automatic Music
Co. Pty Ltd.
The Goddard company also manufac-
tures the Rockola juke-box and has about
10 p.c. of the local market. AMI, which
started eight years ago, has the remaining
90 p.c.
In the past, operators tried pirating
locations by offering site owners a higher .
cut. Location owners frequently held
operators to ransom, demanding higher
fees, or they would invite a rival to
operate the site. Many operators have
described this period as the “removalist”
stage of the game. Much ill-feeling creat-
ed in this period still shrouds the busi-
ness and partly accounts for the tight-
lipped attitude toward enquiries about the
business.
The lack of trust still permeates rela-
tions between operators and site owners.
The site owner gets his cut on the spot.
The machine is opened and his 30 to
40 p.c. is counted out to him immediately.
Four years ago the Amusement
Machine Operators’ Association was
formed. Today, any member canvassing
a member’s location can be fined a mini-
mum of £5O, and “failure to respect the
rights of an established operation” leads
to automatic suspension. Members can
canvass “loose” sights those run by
non-members.
The association has about 55 members
who pay 10s. a month up to £5O for
each city machine and half this for
country machines. At the end of the last
financial year, £6955 was collected in
subscriptions and special fees. The as-
sociation is trying to bring stability to
the industry, but some operators still
buck against it. Among the directors of


LAUNCESTON CHURCH
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
requires
SENIOR MATHEMATICS
AND FRENCH MASTERS
from the beginning of first or
second term, 1966.
Both men must be able to teach
to at least fourth year seconda/y
standard.
Salary scales are above State
department levels and housing is
available. Full details may be
obtained from the Headmaster.
11
m
lx
I i
V
W
4v
:
**w*
0
T : - : : x
•'
vm&W
i2lc
..••••••
H
/Ac I
a
%
f-
GOOL CUSTOMERS
are regular customers. This is why Carrier packaged air conditioning units
find their way into so many shops, offices, restaurants and work rooms.
Here's why!
A Carrier packaged unit is big enough to control temperature and humidity
in places too large for a small air conditioner. Yet it’s compact so you
can tuck it discreetly away in a corner, standing on its own base. One of
the Carrier range of packaged units the 50K8, 50K10, the new 50K14 or
the 50K16 is exactly right for your premises. It will run so quietly
you’ll never know it’s there. And in winter it looks after heating too . . .
warms your business area to comfort level. Call Carrier. Ask about
“Weathermaker” packaged air conditioning units
Carrier Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd.
Sydney • Brisbane • Melbourne • Adelaide • Perth: Distributors Sandovers O’Connor
1834/65
the association are some of the largest
operators. N
A recent innovation in the juke-box
business was the move by Hannan
Products, of Glebe, to lease boxes to
private homes for parties. The company,
run by Rae Hannan, currently has eight
boxes doing the rounds. He launched
the idea with fairly heavy radio adver-
tising and has been solidly booked for
the few months the service has been
operating.
Since Hannan first tackled the market,
one or two operators have started leas-
ing machines, getting the spill-over from
bookings Hannan could not handle.
They have been charging £3O a night,
which is considerably more than that
charged by Hannan Products. It is
understood that no other firms are con-
sidering moving into the field.
One of the reasons for this is the
low hiring fee charged by the Hannan
organisation. It has deliberately kept
charges and profits at a reasonable level
to keep out other operators.
Although most of the business has
come from the western suburbs, Rae
Hannan said he would like to develop a
strong business on the north side of the
harbor. He said the demand has come
mostly from young people. The machines
can be programmed with people’s fav-
orites, but the greatest call is for the
top pops. Each machine takes 100 re-
cords and the coin mechanism is not
needed to operate it. A person selects a
number and it plays automatically.
Mr Hannan said.he would wait until
after the seasonally high Christmas de-
mand waned before he decided whether
to increase the number of machines for
hire.
Though the industry is secretive, over-
sensitive and doesn’t like publicity, it
could well adopt the Decimal Currency
Board’s theme song “In come the
dollars and in come the cents”. The only
difference is the operators aren’t waiting
until February 14, 1966.


Rye doesn’t taste
like Bourbon,
Scotch or Irish.
Neither does
Bond 7: it has a
great Australian
character
all oS its own.
(BOND 7]
J
NET 1 FT. 6 FL.OZ. -
X.*H. t'ujAw
ONE OF THE WORLD’S 5 GREAT WHISKIES
INVESTMENT
Preparing for Battle
No quarter in the biscuit war
JC^ol lowing last year’s battle for control
of Swallow and Ariell, the biscuit
manufacturers are preparing for another
fight. This time the prize is market per-
centages. Nabisco has just let a £2
million contract for the design and con-
struction of its new plant at Broad-
meadows (Vic.). Although no statements
have been released, the Australian Biscuit
Co. must now be giving hard thought to
the terms of its public flotation and how
it can best spend the money raised in
protecting its share of the market. If the
promises made during the battle for
Swallow mean anything, flotation is due
about a year from now. Last week
Ballarat - based Sunshine Biscuits an-
nounced a one-for-three par issue which
will raise £98,000. The cash will provide
additional working capital and help to
finance extensions to plant. Sunshine is
the only independent biscuit maker left
in Australia. Although small, it has a
market to protect; it is hard to imagine
the big manufacturers leaving it un-
scathed without taking it over.
Nabisco’s ' new plant and equipment
will represent a £5 million capital
investment when completed. The first
biscuits are expected to be available some
time in 1967. The plant will also turn
out the current production items which
mainly cover breakfast foods. Obviously
there is great confidence on the manage-
ment’s part. This may be well justified,
as the US parent is the world's largest
biscuit manufacturer and must have a
power of knowhow, both technical and
market, behind it. Every ounce of this
will be necessary as well as every penny
of the £5 million investment plus several
thousand pounds more.
The ABC will, of course, be in the hot
seat. It has between 70 and 80 p.c. of
the market and the Nabisco onslaught
cannot help but knock this down. The
only question seems to be how far will
it drop and what effect will this have on
profits and shareholders once the group
turns public. More than anything,
Nabisco's biggest advantage will be brand
new, completely centralised and inte-
grated productive facilities. This is
something the ABC sadly lacks and there
is a strong possibility that the public
float will be at a high premium so as to
raise cash for new plants where possible.
Perhaps the group may even be forced
to consider a centralised operation like
Nabisco’s.
~\
Magic Call
HThe magic call of silver, lead and zinc
A is sure to touch the pockets of share-
holders in United Uranium when a new
issue is made next year to finance the
development of deposits at the Mt Evelyn
mine in the Northern Territory. In the
announcement last week, directors as-
sured that the issue would be “attrac-
tive”. Work on the Mt Evelyn ore-bodies
has added substantially to the proved ore
reserves, which were valued at £H
million in October. Diamond drilling has
intersected high-grade ores in various
parallel lodes and exploration is still
going on. The company hopes to start
treating ore some time next year.
Meanwhile, negotiations to finance
systematic development of the company’s


w
■ <■
'
'
A I
■
i V €
\%.
Gregarious
Men like to get together for talk. About everything.
Sometimes unimportant; only sometimes. Conver-
sation. Communication. One thing leads to
another. Ideas develop. Big plans emerge. Men
profit by conventions. Action. For conventions
Sydney has obvious advantages. In Sydney,
Chevron Hotel. Of course. Convention experience
and lots of it. If you are to convene a convention,
write to or talk it over with the Chevron Hotel
management; no further worries. Package deal
tailored to your requirements covers every little
detail. And at a very fair price. Get with it . s s
with us.
AUSTRALIA'S GREAT CONVENTION CENTRE
CHEVRON HOTEL
35-0433
MACLEAY STREET, POTT'S POINT, SYDNEY
5600 square-mile authority to prospect
in Arnhem Land are at an advanced
stage with a big US mining group. Tests
are also under way on the CRA Nam-
oona silver-lead prospect to prove the
value of the interest United Uranium is
acquiring in the area. A few other im-
portant prospects promising copper,
wolfram and silver-lead are awaiting the
group’s more intensive investigation.
All this is providing new hope for
shareholders who had resigned them-
selves to a period of low profitability "with
the completion of the uranium contract
with the UK Atomic Energy Commission.
Tea, Bex and a Lie-down
TVrectors of F. W. Williams Holdings
” Ltd plan an initial investment of
£200,000, financed from internal re-
sources, to buy a tea plantation com-
pany in the Mt Hagen area and to
establish the first commercial tea mill
in New Guinea.
These diversification plans were an-
nounced at the extraordinary meeting
called for shareholders to ratify the
£4.Bm. sale of paper interests (the in-
vestments in St Regis-Williams Pty and
New Zealand Sisalkraft Ltd) to Aus-
tralian Consolidated Industries Ltd..
Problems of taxation arise in distribu-
ting this largesse; directors are awaiting
amended tax legislation before deciding
on a course of action. Distribution of
ACI shares, a reduction of capital, a
redeemable preference issue and other
means have been under consideration.
*
In a business climate where any kind
of diversification is accepted even
secret projects for bomb bases and fibre-
glass boat production by a men’s-wear re-
tailer Williams could safely move into
analgesics without fears of shareholder
objections. The few with qualms could
have a good lie-down.
Meaty Float
T>ridham Holdings looks like a solid
investment. The company plans to
join the public lists after floating off
440,000 ss. shares at 7s. 6d. each. Asset
backing for each share is 9s. 6d. Divi-
dends are predicted at 10 p.c. and were
covered by earnings, calculated on new
capital after tax at public rates, of 20.1
p.c. last year.
The company produces tallow, meat
meal, sausage casings and surgical gut
from plants at Bravbrook and Derrimut.
Not a very glamorous activity but an
expanding one. Funds from the public
issue will be used to finance considerable
expansion of manufacturing capacity.


P.A. Appointments Division has been asked to advise on tile following
Appointment:
MARKETING MANAGER
CHESEBROUGH-PONDS INTERNATIONAL LIMITS©
The Australian Company, located at Clayton, Victoria, is a branch
of a world-wide organisation witt headquarters in New York. It
manufactures POND'S, CUTEX, VASELINE and QDORQNO brand
products. The Company continues to undergo very strong expansion
and now plans to introduce new lines to its product range.
The Marketing Manager, after appointment, will be responsible to
the General Manager, who is the top executive in Australia. His duties
will embrace all aspects of research, sales budgeting, national
advertising through Brand Managers and selling through the General
Sales Manager. This whole operation comprises a staff of about 40.
Qualifications: Applicants mus* be experienced in the marketing of
toiletries, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, food preparations or products
with similar distribution and advertising requirements The preferred
age is 35-45 years.
Conditions: Commencing salary is flexible and a figure in the
vicinity of £4,000 p.a. can be taken as a guide for negotiation.
A car is provided and contributory superannuation applies Generous
orof.it sharing arrangements exist which would be expected to 'mprove
remuneration substantially.
All applications will be treated with strict confidence. No information
will be forwarded tc aur client nor enquiries made wiihout the
permission of applicants. Please forward appropriate details quoting
Ref. No. 923 to :
7 Appointments Division,
P.A. MANAGEMENT CONSULTANTS PTY. LTD.
34 QUEENS ROAD, MELBOURNE, S C. 2.
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY
Company. Limited.
has two vacancies for
RESEARCH GEOLOGISTS
QUALIFICATIONS:
University degree with geology as a major subject higher
qualifications and evidence of research ability are desirable.
POSITION No. 1:
Location Head Office, Melbourne to assist the Chief
Geologist with the Company's Geological Research Programme.
A minimum of ten years' experience is considered necessary
for this position, together with an intimate knowledge of Aus-
tralian geology and geological publications.
POSITION No. 2:
Location the Company's Central Research Laboratories at
Shortland, a suburb of Newcastle, N.S.W.
Duties laboratory studies of ore deposits. Such studies
will be complementary to work by the Company's exploration
group and will be concerned with the mineralogy and processing
of ores.
Ancillary scientific services are available, including chemical
and spectrographic analysis. X-ray diffraction, mineral dressing,
electron microscopy, DTA and a range of other facilities.
Familiarity with normal petrological and mineragraphic equip-
ment is necessary.
SALARY:
Lnitial salary will be determined on the basis of experience
and qualifications.
GENERAL:
Appointment is subject to satisfactory medical examination.
The positions are permanent career appointments and carry
entitlement to membership in the Company's Officers Provident
Fund, including Temporary Life Assurance cover. Excellent
medical and hospital benefit cover is available. Sickness benefit
is liberal.
Applications should be marked "Confidential" and addressed
to:—
The Executive Officer Personnel & Training
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.
G.P.O. Box 86A, MELBOURNE
CONSOLIDATED GOLD FIELDS
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
Applications are invited for the following positions. These
positions relate to the development, design and ultimate
operation of a new smelting plant. An initial period of
4-6 months will be spent overseas on plant design and
process familiarisation.
POSITION T.
PROJECT
METALLURGIST
A graduate-level metallurgist with several years' operating
experience in the smelting and refining of metals. Experience in
copper smelting and converting or in pneumatic steel-making
would be advantageous but not essential. It is anticipated that
the successful applicant will become superintendent of the plant
when operations are commenced.
This is a senior position and the salary will be negotiated
having regard to qualifications and experience.
POSITION 2.
PROJECT
ENGINEER
The Project Engineer should be a graduate or diplomate in
mechanical engineering with up to 10 years' experience in
general design, construction. He should have detailed experience
of materials handling, smelting furnaces, refractories and
effluents. The Project Engineer shall assist in the detailed design
of the project, prepare contract-documents, and supervise the
engineering construction and commissioning.
The salary, to be negotiated, will be in the range of £2,500 to
£3,500 per year according to qualifications and experience.
STANDARD CONDITIONS. Housing available for married
appointee. 4 weeks' annual leave. Generous Superannuation. Pen-
sion Plan and education allowance. Refund of fares and reason-
able removal expenses.
Applications should be addressed to:
The Secretary
CONSOLIDATED GOLD FIELDS (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
A.M.P. Building, Circular Quay, Sydney, N.S.W.
Practical Equity
HJelbourne-based Industrial Equity must rank as one of
the shortest-lived companies ever known in Stock Ex-
change history. It joined the public list late last year with
500,000 2s. shares floated off at par. Now the directors have
decided to wind the company up next year if the shareholders
approve. It promises to be one of the few cases where a wind-up
will avoid any losses to shareholders and the board must be
commended for their original and practical approach.
One of the main activities has been stock option underwriting
and it proved profitable until the beginning of 1965 when
the share market began to fall. Directors found then that the
success of the business depended on a relatively stable or rising
market. Thus, it was realised that option underwriting could
-not be relied on for regular income and the activity was
promptly discontinued.
This left the group with income from investments, interest
and sub-underwriting. It was decided that continuance on
this basis alone was not in the best interests of shareholders.
Thus it has been decided that the company should be wound
up. This could be done immediately, but certain commitments
make it more advisable to keep operating until the end of the
current financial year. Directors are confident that the disposal
of the company’s investments will yield at least 2s. and probably
more for each share. Although shareholders will thus make
very little, they will have lost nothing, thanks to the decision
.to curtail the business instead of continuing, possibly into heavy
losses.


SECURITY ANALYSIS
Back to 1833 in Tasmania
Cascade Brewery must look to dividend
As might well be expected, the Cascade
Brewery Company Limited is a
much smaller company than the three
brewers that have been considered to
date. Even when the issue of convertible
notes becomes ordinary shares next year,
the paid ordinary capital will only be just
over £1.5 million. So, in terms of equity
capital, Cascade is only one-tenth of the
size of Carlton and United. Also Carlton
and United’s total capital is nearly seven
and one-half times that of Cascade.
Yet the beginnings of Cascade go back
to 1833. This means that it is one of the
oldest breweries in Australia. The com-
pany was formed in 1883 and seems to
have had a capital reconstruction in
1902 when 9s. per share was written off,
thereby reducing the paid ordinary
capital to £lOB,OOO. In 1922 Tasmanian
Breweries Pty Limited was formed; it
appears that this company became the
brewer both for Cascade and J. Boag
and Son (1911) Limited, the latter two
companies leasing their breweries to Tas-
manian Breweries. J. Boag was eventu-
ally taken over by Cascade in 1957. The
restrictions imposed during World War
II seem to have created some problems,
but they also seem to have allowed Cas-
cade to become firmly established in
Launceston. Prior to the war, Laun-
ceston had been supplied by Melbourne
and this was prevented by the restrictions
on the interstate shipments of beer.
In 1949 a new bottling plant was
installed; prior to that a new subsidiary
had been formed to process fruit juices.
This latter venture does not appear to
have been successful and it was absorbed
by the cordial subsidiary. It is unfortu-
nate that the history of the company is
not known to me so far as this period
is concerned, because in the early ’fifties
a considerable amount of ordinary
capital was raised. A cash issue in the
ratio of three-for-five made in May,
1950, raised £135,000 by the time that
it was fully paid in 1951. At the same
time the company made one of the only
two bonus issues it has ever made. So
ordinary capital, which had remained un-
changed at £225,000 since 1937, was
increased by over 126 p.c. to £510,000.
Then, in 1952, another rights issue was
made on a one-for-six basis, raising
£90,000 in cash and increasing paid
ordinary capital to £600,000. This was
the last issue of ordinary shares to share-
holders. In 1960, just before Cascade
was listed on the Sydney Stock Exchange,
£722,804 was raised by the issue of con-
vertible notes that will convert as at
December 31 next.
It is not clear what happened in 1952,
but in that year the ordinary dividend
was passed. The dividend rate, which
had been held at 12 p.c. right through
the war years, was reduced to 8 p.c.
following the bonus issue, so that this
issue meant only a fractional increase in
dividend income the increase of note
had occurred two years earlier when the
rate was increased from 12 p.c. to 13i
p.c. After 1952 the dividend rate was
5 p.c. for two years and was then
gradually increased until the current 10
p.c. rate was attained in 1960.
This means that the ordinary share-
holders have not received an increase
in dividend since 1949. In absolute terms,
the 10 p.c. rate will have to continue
until 1967-68 before the total dividend
paid over a period of nearly 20 years
is equivalent to 8 p.c. per annum on
average. However, this is the past and
we must try to see into the future.
HHhe large issue of convertible notes in
1960 seems to have triggered off a
vast capital expenditure programme. Not
only have the breweries been re-equipped
at some considerable expense, but large
sums have also been spent on the build-
ing and modernisation of the group’s
hotels. From the photographs published
in the last few annual reports, it would
appear that at least some of these hotels
are now of quite a high standard.
Examples are the Kings Meadow Hotel
at Launceston and the Black Prince and
Marquis of Hastings Hotels in Hobart.
As with most of the brewery companies,
the split-up of the total investment in
fixed assets between brewery assets and
hotel assets is not available; it seems
likely that of the £1.6 million expended
over the last five years approximately
half could have been directed towards
the replacement and modernisation of
brewery equipment.
This might well have been necessary
because all types of equipment require
replacement eventually, but Cascaded
production is so much smaller than that
of the other major brewery companies
in Australia that one wonders whether
it can readily absorb the high fixed costs
of very elaborate plant. The wholesale
prices of beer in Tasmania do not put
Cascade at an advantage over these other
breweries, since draft beer even after the
recent increases is still lower in Tasmania
than it is in Western Australia and
Queensland, where the beer consumption
seems to be three times and five times
as great respectively. It is only in pack-
aged beer that Cascade has a margin.
Because of the very large issue of con-
vertible notes, the apparent earning rate
on ordinary capital is very misleading
over the last five years. It is necessary
to treat these notes as ordinary shares
during the period and to make suitable
adjustments to the earnings figure to
obtain a reasonable picture. I consider
that the following series gives a reason-
able view of Cascade’s earning rate on a
basis which is comparable with the earn-
ing rates given in preceding articles:
Year to June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Percentages 25.9 18.0 19.0 19.4 20.4
Because the deduction for “amounts
written off freeholds” seems to have been
allowed by the Tax Commissioner, I
have treated it as a proper deduction
from profits in this series. It is apparent
that the large issue of capital in 1960
watered the earning rate very consider-
ably; even after five years the earning
rate is still a long way below the 1960
level. Over the last three years the rate
has been increasing quite nicely at the
average annual compound rate of about
4i p.c.
The last sale (at the time of writing)
of Cascade's shares took place at 58s.
At this price the dividend yield is 3.45
p.c. and the earnings yield about 7 p.e.
Although the earnings yield is rather
higher than that which is available from
the other brewery companies, I would
still prefer to have shares in those
brewers which have a long-established
record of increasing dividends.
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (£'000)
Year to June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 1051 1203 1126 1115 1299
Current liabilities 597 874 868 1066 960
Net working capital 454 329 258 49 339
Land and buildings 1736 2193 2364 2451 2759
Plant etc. 921 .1134 1169 1325 1240
Investments 175 155 164 200 231
Total capital 3286 3811 3955 4025 4569
fc |Sr£.i£l =l3 475 354 532
Convertible notes 366 727 728 728 728
Ordinary capital 728 728 728 728 778
Reserves 1679 1844 2024 2215 2531
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES (£'000)
Investment income 4 8 9 10 12
Lean interest 30 33 32 30 33
Convertible note
interest 8 34 51 51 51
Depreciation 89 98 105 119 125
Tax provided 189 162 156 191 199
Earnings 277 247 256 268 301
Ordinary dividends 73 73 73 73 78
Surplus 204 174 183 195 223
Earning rate p.c. 38.0 34.0 35.2 36.8 41.4
Dividend rate p.c. 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0
Dividend yield p.c. (a) 4.0 3.4 3.5 3.1 3.3
High price (b) 55/10 59/7 59/4 70/- 67/6
Low price (b) 44/ 57/6 54/7 57/6 54/
(i») Based on the average of 1 the high and low prices
for the year.
(to) Calendar year.


SURVEY PRACTICE WANTED
A qualified Surveyor (14 years) wishes to
purchase outright a sound existing Survey
practice, or alternatively a Partnership or
Associateship in same, anywhere in Australia.
A practice involving association with Civil
Engineering consultants would be preferred,
but all proposals would be considered.
Replies, which should be from Principals
only, will be treated in absolute confidence
and should be addressed to:
B. H. BRIDGES, L.S., M.I.S. (Aust.),
C/- 17 Durward Road,
Chadstone, 5.E.10,
Melbourne, Victoria,.
How Do Norths and Souths Compare?
The levelling effect of royalties
By ROGER RANDERSON
TTavimg pointed to the prospects of
Broken Hill South Ltd on two
occasions in recent years, it has been
suggested that I should now consider
North Broken Hill Ltd its running-
mate in the local and highly progressive
“Collins House” stable.
How do shares in the two companies
compare as investments? This is an
interesting question, because Norths and
Souths each has its firm adherents and
their partisanship is not always adequately
reasoned.
North Broken Hill Ltd mined 502,051
tons of ore and treated 499,514 tons
yielding £12,205,559 worth of mine
products (after deducting railage costs
of £849,209) in the year ended June,
1965.
A record profit of £4,115,284 was
shown, representing 45 p.c. of the com-
pany’s capital of £9,100,000, and divi-
dends of Is in June and Is. 6d. in
November represented 25 p.c. of the par
value of each 10s. share.
Nevertheless, North earned only one
p.c. more on its capital and paid no
higher dividend than did South, even
though its mining effort at Broken Hill
was far greater and yielded almost twice
as great a value of mine products.
To make the above comparison one
adjusts the profit of Broken Hill South
Ltd to £2,697,395 by adding back
£317,687 previously provided for writing
down the value of investments in ex-
ploration projects.
The bonus issues of 1961-62 should not
be forgotten. They watered down North’s
capital more than South’s. Moreover,
North had the assistance of only a 3-for-
-10 par issue to carry its Alcoa aluminium
investment, while South secured the use
of a 50 p.c. premium with its l-for-2
issue for the same purpose.
Royalty payments and income tax,
however, are great levellers; they largely
account for the fact that North Broken
Hill Ltd could not show a better result
from its far superior productive per-
formance.
Mining Royalty and
Surplus Income Tax
Nor;h B.H. £7,949,606 £4,368,000
B.H South £3,453,509 £1,209,550
+ £4,496,097 + £3,158,450
The life of North Broken Hill Ltd
on the Barrier appears to be unlimited,
with untold mineral wealth lying in its
six miles of leases.
Now that the company has reached
the new ceiling rate of 10s. in the £ for
royalties, the stepping-up of production
might be expected, with a view to secur-
ing “increasing returns” from capital
applied. Until recently nothing better
than constant returns has been possible
because of the steep progression of the
royalty scale.
However, large bodies of accessible
ore reserves have to be developed before
the consequent large capital costs (and
risks) can be justified.
rfiHE company, therefore, is redoubling
its efforts in testing and delineating
the existing line of lode and in searching
for a new ore-body farther out. It is
probable that the No. 3 shaft, which
will not take over entirely from the
No. 2 shaft for a year or two, will start
to be deepened below the 4320 feet
level in the coming year.
These are, as the chairman, Mr M. L.
Baillieu, has impressed on his share-
holders, “very big, expensive and long-
term” tasks.
Lead is a relatively large proportion
of North’s products; and high, if slightly
lower, prices are expected for this metal
in the coming year.
But lead is more susceptible than other
base metals (the producers of which have
more closely succeeded in stabilising
prices) to world market fluctuations.
Nevertheless, two stabilising elements
for the company and its shareholders
should be noted. In reverse, the steeply
progressive scale of royalty payments
lessens the impact on earnings of any
marked fall in metal prices. A large
portfolio of non-mining investments is
continually being enlarged. Last year
net earnings from investments amounted
to £959,833, sufficient to pay 42 p.c. of
the dividend.
Let us return to comparisons with
Broken Hill South Ltd.
North’s 18,200,000 shares of 10s. par
value, priced at 375. each, superficially
appear to be cheaper than South’s
24,450,000 shares of ss. par value, priced
at 265. each, when earning rates and
dividends are the same. North shows a
dividend yield of 6.8 p.c. from a 12.3
p.c. earnings yield, while South shows
only 4.8 p.c. from 8.5 p.c.
The market is valuing North Broken
Hill Ltd at only eight times last year’s
earnings and Broken Hill South Ltd at
13 times. Whether rightly or wrongly,
this implies the expectation of poorer
results in the early future from the
former, or better results in the early
future from the latter, or a bit of both,
Nevertheless, the market is placing
about the same value on the resources
and undertakings of each company (£32
to £33 million) when their respective
capitals are taken into account. (Other
things being equal, a lower capital is a
distinct advantage for a mining com-
pany, and Broken Hill South has an
advantage in this respect.)
A common mistake is to suppose that
North Broken Hill Ltd is a stronger
company than Broken Hill South Ltd
because of its much larger ore deposits
and scale of operations at Broken Hill.
In passing, it may be observed that even
the latter advantage has begun to
diminish substantially with South’s dis-
covery of large copper and zinc deposits
at Cobar.
It is true that North’s shareholders’
funds of £24,238,328 are greater than
South’s £20,970,125, but placed on an
assumed equal basis of 10s. shares North
has an assets backing for each share of
275. as compared with the equivalent of
345. 2d. for South.
Investments of the two companies
(aggregated at cost and market value
where available) are: North Broken Hill
Ltd, £17,292,290 and Broken Hill South
Ltd, £19,787,065. In this is seen the
fact that “Collins House”, more than
most Australians appreciate, has-been
the cradle for some of our most im-
portant secondary industries.
North’s portfolio includes securities of
listed companies with a market value of
£7,199,397 as compared with South’s
£2,916,997, and, although dividend yields
are small, this gives it greater stability if
all base metal prices slump together.
South, however, has taken a major step
towards diversification, giving greater
stability when, as is more usual, some
metal prices fall and not others. More-
over, North has no subsidiaries, while
South is at present poised for a larger
increase in revenue directly and in-


CORPORATION LIMITED
interest up to
74
paid quarterly
0
DEBENTURE STOCK
2 YEARS 6i%
3 YEARS 1%
5 YEARS 7i%
6-10 YEARS I\%
UNSECURED NOTES
3 MONTHS 5£%
2 YEARS 7%
3 YEARS 11%
Any branch of
THE NATIONAL BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
or
CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
OTHER RATES ON APPLICATION
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms referred
to in and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus which
is now available from:
Any member of
A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
or the Underwriters
ORD MINNETT, T. J.
THOMPSON & PARTNERS
MEMBERS OF THE SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE LTD.
CC2.53.105
directly from mining, because of majority
control from the investment of
£7,915,203 in subsidiary companies.
North Broken Hill Ltd has had greater
income from its investments in recent
years. (Last year a net £959,833 com-
pared with a gross £776,196 for Broken
Hill South Ltd.) Its investment income
is likely to increase in this and coming
years, but by not nearly as much as that
of its running-mate.
Broken Hill South has almost com-
pleted its diversion of funds for a 76f
p.c. share in its Cobar copper and zinc
subsidiary. Its revenue will be heavily
supplemented from this source in the
early future. Moreover, with capacity of
its Port Kembla E.R. & S. subsidiary
being stepped up towards 50,000 tons of
metal a year, it will draw 60 p.c. of
incidental gains to revenue as compared
with 40 p.c. of dividend payments for
North. Similarly, Broken Hill South Ltd
will benefit slightly more from its 19.8
p.c. interest, which is greater than that
of North in Metal Manufactures Ltd
with all its ramifications.
The advantage lies with North Broken
Hill Ltd with a 30 p.c. interest in The
Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty Ltd,
as compared with South’s 20 p.c. Large
capital expenditure, however, is faced in
the BHAS projects to treat its huge
surface dumps and to prospect and
develop its Coalcliff deposits on the
south coast of NSW, so that dividends
from this source may be limited for
some time.
A further advantage for North lies in
its larger investment in E.Z. Industries,
which company is now seeking reim-
bursement for its direct ownership of
metal in about a fifth of the BHAS
surface dumps.
North Broken Hill Ltd is not so
heavily weighed down at present by its
12 p.c. interest in the Alcoa aluminium
project, as South is by its 16.6 p.e.
interest, but by the same token its in-
vestment income will benefit less when
dividends are forthcoming.
Although the above method has had
to be adopted to compare the two com-
panies, it is more realistic with Broken
Hill South Ltd to regard the Cobar
copper and zinc mining and Port Kembla
copper smelting undertakings as being on
the point of making large direct additions
to the company’s revenue, which will be
offset by dividends and liabilities to
minority interests aggregating 231 p.c.
to CRA for Cobar and 40 p.c. to North
for Port Kembla.
Co-operation between these two power-
ful companies, with Mr Lindesay Clark
■—the most recent of a long line of
mining leaders —on each of their boards,
is very close. Leases have been ex-
changed for shares in the past, South has
a 30 p.c. interest in any discoveries by
North at the most northern end of its
properties, while North participates in
some of South’s widespread searches for
other minerals.
Why this co-operation should not have
extended to participation in the mining
of the Cobar copper and zinc field is an
intriguing question, which I am unable
to answer.
One cannot rule out the possibility of
this when Cobar Mines Pty Ltd reaches
its economic capacity and perhaps Cobar
South Pty Ltd becomes the medium for
developing new mines on the field.
With gigantic overseas competitors
operating in Australia, it is tempting 10
consider whether there might be financial
advantages from a North-South holding
company. As I see the position at the
moment, such an amalgamation would
benefit the shareholders of both com-
panies, but those of North more than
those of South.
While in the long run there may be
little to separate the performance of
North and South, my diffident con-
clusion (leaving aside the possibility of
amalgamation) is that the share market
is correct in sensing larger immediate
gains to be had from a holding of Broken
Hill South Ltd in the next few years,
although both offer attractions compared
with other mining investments. This view
is reinforced if directors of South are
conscious that relatively more compensa-
tion for patience in recent years is due
to their shareholders.
INVESTMENTS AT PAID PAR VALUES*
B.H. SOUTH NORTH B.H.
£ £
Alcoa of Aust. 4,150,000-06.6%) 3,000,000-02%)
Apsenor 100,000 100,000
Assoc. Pulp
and Paper 768,842 1,185,396
Beach Petroleum 1,950,000-(32i%)
The B.H.A.S. 2,000,Q0G-(2O%) 3,000,000-(30%)
B.H.P. 505,200
B.H. South 112,500
Commonwealth
Aircraft Cpn. 262,500 262,500
C'wealth Steel 99,441 49,720
E.Z. Industries 1,727,192 2,418,924
1.e.1.A.N.Z. 277,984
Kalgoorlie
Southern
Gold Mines 25,000 25,000
Metal Manu-
factures 2,041,818-09.8%) 1,647,778-06%)
New B.H. 23,960
North B.P. 35,783
Perry Engineering 51,041
Rio Tinto-Zinc Cpn. 110,065
Timber Industries 54,034 29,034
Western
Mining Cpn. 9,248 60,723
Western N.S.W.
Electric Power 22,100 46,666
Subsidiaries of B.H. South
Barrier Central 850,000-000%)
Cobar Mines 5,258,651-(76§%)
Cobar South 15,333-(76§%)
Comstaff 230,985-190%)
Electrolytic
Refining and
Smelting 1,050,000-(60%) 700,000-(40%)
Mines
Exploration 200,000-000%)
Zeehan Mines 100,000-000%)
* Note: These are the "more important" investments
given in Annual Reports.


* n
m i
$
x-x//.
m
m
GTV
«%
I
mM
ON GTV9
S»)
«r........... /
si
10-Weave have developed a great new shirt—a warp-loomed Terylene-and-cotton blend with
je rich texture of traditional oxford fabrics. (A masterstroke of the clothmakers art which at
ice combines the timeless beauty of a traditional cloth with the long life and wash-and-wear
operties of the latest blended fabrics.) Additional features of the shirt —taper-tailored styling,
oice of four fashion-setting collar styles, and a choice of three pale dry colors, as well as a
sting white. * d
IOBLEM—How to introduce the shirt to the public?
)LUTION—GTV Channel 9, Melbourne. A combination of the proven selling team of Graham
:nnedy and his top-rating IMT, and an Oxford undergraduate, specially flown to Australia for
b job, form the sparkling catalyst which is going to sell Melbourne on the shirt of the year,
bet Mr. Oxford—on GTV %


Invest in
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
DEBENTURE STOCK
FOR 5 YEARS
(SECOND SERIES)
7 % 4 YEARS
6£% 3 YEARS
6|% 2 YEARS
•
5|% ..... 12 MONTHS
Prospectus and application form available from?
• ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF THE A.N.Z. BANK
• ALL BRANCHES OF I.A.C.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
9001
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER & CO.
Members of the Stock Exchange, Melbourne
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
A Disappointing Performer
J. Gadsden chases higher profitability
A record profit, up 20 p.c. on the
1963-64 figure (which was the
previous best) to £1,019,654, did not
persuade directors of the packaging
specialist, J. Gadsden Australia Ltd, that
the reduced dividend of 7 p.c. paid in
1964 should be revised.
The apparent explanation is under-
estimation of tax in earlier years or the
disallowance now of expenditure which
the company regarded as of a capital
nature, with the necessity to appropriate
£177,000 of past profits for additional
income tax.
Contrary to a statement made in The
Bulletin at the time of the profit report,
tax provision this year of £684,000 looks
normal, but tax provisions for the
previous four years were prima facie
relatively low in proportion to disclosed
profits.
When directors cut the traditional 8
p.c. dividend to 7 p.c. for 1963-64, in
the face of improved profits and greater
provisions, the excuse to “strengthen re-
serves” did not seem adequate, although
admittedly the very modest earning rates
have never allowed much build-up of
reserves.
A dividend of 7 p.c. is about the
minimum which a self-respecting com-
pany, particularly occupying such a
prominent position in the packaging in-
dustry as Gadsden does, could decently
offer shareholders, short of an emergency
situation.
In 1954 J. Gadsden Australia Ltd
grew out of J. Gadsden Pty, which
originated in Melbourne in 1879 as a
manufacturer of calico and hessian
bags. By joining forces with Gadsden
Hughes Holdings Ltd in February, 1959,
and picking up some smaller firms on
the way, Vulcan Can Co. Pty, Packs
Ltd and James Robertson Pty, the group
business blanketed the packaging field,
producing plain and printed cans, bottle
crown seals, calico, hessian and paper
bags, cardboard cartons and polythene
packs. Customers include the fruit and
vegetable canners, breweries (Tooths),
soft-drink firms, paint manufacturers, oil
distributors, and cigarette manufacturers,
a valuable customer being Rothmans.
Plants are in Melbourne, Sydney, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Fremantle, Hobart,
Devonport (Tas.) and Shepparton (Vic.),
this latter servicing Campbell’s soups.
In the 1965 annual review, mention
is made of the current increase in sales
of carbonated beverage cans and the
recent introduction of mixed drinks in
cans. Australia is following the US lead
with aluminium lift-tab ends, which
Gadsden can supply. The association with
American Can Co. is valuable for tech-
nical assistance and development of new
products, the latest being a completely
tin-free can. (Australians will now have
to observe the distinction between a tin
and a can.)
Gadsden has a 50 p.c. interest (about
£250,000) in Australian Packaging In-
dustries, which makes large steel drawl*
at Altona (Vic.) and Granville (NSW),
The joint enterprise with W. E. Smith
Ltd to make corrugated and solid-fibre
containers at Stafford (Qld) became a
wholly owned subsidiary of Gadsden in
1961.
The working capital position again
looks satisfactory, despite the huge in-
crease in provision for tax (the account
going up from £491,000 to £1,189,000).
The company had, at June 30, 1965,
£200,000 in short-term deposits.
Commitments for capital expenditure
at £130,826 are a little less than last
year.
During 1964-65, Gadsden raised a
further £400,000 in mortgage loans.
There is £lm. in 8 p.c. notes which
mature on April 30, 1967.
The company aims to minimise price


The man
who leaves no will
may be
leaving trouble
How many people think about making a Wiil? Almost everyone,
at one time or another. And how many die intestate? Their
assets are sold up, often on an unfavourable market, and the
proceeds distributed to a regulation set of beneficiaries as
laid down by the Laws of Intestacy . . . often with unpleasant
results. Is this what you would want for your family?
It’s so easy to give your family the final protection of a
Will. Don’t hesitate —call the Union-Fidelity Trustee Company.
They’ll help you to plan your Estate, and then have a Will
drawn up by your Solicitor that precisely expresses your
wishes.
But—why a Trustee Company? Because if you appoint
the Union-Fidelity Trustee Company to be your executor, you
have the services of a friendly, experienced, reliable adminis-
trator. Union-Fidelity gives you what no individual can , . .
security and continuity of service.
Call Union-Fidelity right away. Or send this coupon for
free booklet, “When Making a Will".
UNION-FIDELITY
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established 188$
MELBOURNE, BALLARAT, GEELONG, HAMILTON, TRARALGON, SYDNEY, NEWCAST
BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, TOOWOOMBA, ROCKHAMPTON, CAIRNS AND
100 Exhibition Street, Melbourne
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney
398-402 Queen Street, Brisbane
/ would appreciate a complimentary copy of your “When Making a
Will " Booklet.
NAME,.
ADDRESS ;
i, AIRURY, CANBERRA,
HARLEVILLE
VJU
VJB
T 1
11214
N2ol'oSin
increases by higher manufacturing
efficiency, but labor and raw material
costs go up and the profit margins in
the industry remain slim. Many of
Gadsden’s customers arc exporters; it is
essential that the packaging costs are
controlled.
Directors say that the group’s organisa-
tional structure is being rationalised to
improve managerial control. Electronic
data-processing equipment is being used
more widely by Gadsden.
In 1962-63 J. Gadsden was unlucky
to be caught with £135,000 bad debts
incurred with two subsidiaries of the
English Foster Clark group.
Shareholders were asked to subscribe
to one-for-eight par issues in 1959 and
again in 1961. It does not seem now
that there will be an early cali for capital.
The group has, frankly, been a dis-
appointing performer. The latest profit
gives a glimmer of hope that the com-
pany has smartened up. As a converter
of other firms’ materials, though, the
business is not ever likely to be very
lucrative.
Vertical integration is the trend today,
exemplified by Carlton and United
Breweries’ purchase of Hercules Fibre
Containers Pty and British Tobacco’s
deeper excursions into packaging terri-
tory with broad sweeps into food and
soft drinks at the same time.
At 14s. 3d. the 10s shares of Gadsden
give an immediate return of 4.9 p.c. and
earnings yield of 10.9 p.c. In today’s
market a 4.9 p.c. yield should be Certi-
fied by strong prospects of capital
growth. Even a return to the 8 p.c. divi-
dend would show only a 5.6 p.c. return.
Sales for the September, 1965,
quarter are up 12 p.c. Round about next
March, the market should be able to
determine whether Gadsden has really
entered a new era of higher profitability.
Meanwhile there seems insufficient justi-
fication for chasing the shares.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 6033 5707 6569 5683 6466
Less current liabilities 3390 3118 4462 3413 3269
Working capital 2643 2589 2107 2270 3197
Investments 250 250 250 674 654
Fixed assets 6283 6553 7057 7811 7592
intangibles 666 659 347 316 304
9842 10051 9761 11071 11747
Loan capital 1565 1548 1530 2543 2908
Outside shareholders 155 137 117 68
Ordinary capital 6567 6567 6567 6567 6567
Reserves 1555 1799 1547 1893 2272
9342 10051 9761 11071 11747
Depreciation 339 384 399 473 534
Tax 330 428 283 486 684
Net profit 624 743 604 845 1020
Dividend 482 525 525 460 460
Surplus 142 223 79 385 560
Earning rate p.c. 10.4 11.4 9.2 12.9 15.5
Dividend rate p.c. 8 8 8 7 7
Dividend yield p.c. (a) 5.3 4.3 4.8 5.2
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 14.7 16.1 18.2 10.5
High price (b) 20/- 17/3 20/- 21/6 17/3
Low price (b) 15/6 14/1 15/- 15/11 12/-
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.


IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: EDWARD PERCIVAL RUSSELL, address
unknown. TAKE NOTICE that SYLVIA
ADELAIDE RUSSELL has filed a Petition No.
3844 of 1963 for divorce on the grounds of
desertion and separation. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the fourth
day of February, 1966, and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from JOSEPH P.
SHARAH & COMPANY, of 141 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: RALPH DAVID GARRICK, formerly of
Brookyale.,TAKE NOTICE that HELEN MARY
GARRICK has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1946 of 1965 on the ground of desertion.
If you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 28th day of January,
1966, and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS McDONELL &
MOFFITT, Solicitors, of 6 Wvnyard Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: WILLIAM BASIL ALEXANDA DUBOIS,
late of Flat 3, 1 Rebecca Street, Mount Isa,
Queensland. TAKE NOTICE that CHRISTINE
PATRICIA DUBOIS has filed a Petition in
Suit No. 4166 of 1964 for divorce on the
ground of cruelty. If you wish to defend
or to be served with further process you may
file an Answer or a Notice of Address in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Old Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 25th day of January, 1966, and
obtain a copy of this Petition without charge
from LANE & LANE, Solicitors, Commerce
House. 161 Clarence Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: JOSEPH ARTHUR O’NEILL. TAKE
NOTICE that DREDA ELIZABETH O’NEILL
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4085 of
1964 on the ground of separation. If you wish
to defend you should file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the 14th January, 1966. You may obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
ALFRED R. PARKER & HENNINGHAM,
Solicitors, 29 Bligh Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: DONALD McKELLAR CLARKE. TAKE
NOTICE that DULCE ELIZABETH CLARKE
has filed a Petition No. 3254 of 1965 ‘for divorce
on the ground of separation. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mae-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 31st
day of January, 1966, and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from DAVID S.
DIND & CO., Solicitors, of 67 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: WILLIAM RICHARD HOLMES, late Of
Narrabeen. TAKE NOTICE that SHIRLEY
EDITH HOLMES has filed a Petition for
Divorce in Suit 4192 of 1965 on the ground
of desertion. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the sth day of
February, 1966, and obtain a copy of the
Petition filed herein without charge on
application to J. GRANT MARSH, Solicitor,
28 Martin Place, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: RONALD RAYMOND SNEDDEN, late otf
Park Road, Ashfield. TAKE NOTICE that
THERESE SNEDDEN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4448 of 1965 on the ground of
desertion. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 28th day of January, 1966, and
obtain a copy of the Petition and Notice of
Petition from GREGG MILNE & CO.,
Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: PETER JOHN UPTON, late of Bondi.
TAKE NOTICE that JOY IRENE UPTON has
filed a Petition No. 3196 of 1965 for divorce
on the ground of desertion. If you wish to
defend ■ you .may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 31st January,
1966, and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from J. C. PAYNTER, Solicitor,
St. James’ Buildings, 107 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Public Notice
WHEREAS the Public Trustee is the Admini-
strator of the Estate of Clifford William
Gower, late of Lachlan Park Hospital, New
Norfolk, in the State of Tasmania, Pensioner,
deceased Intestate, NOW notice is hereby
given that unless ELSIE MAY GOWER, the
widow of the said deceased, shall send in
any claim in respect of the estate of the said
Clifford William Gower, deceased, to the Public
Trustee for the State of Tasmania within
Thirty (30) days of the publication hereof,
application will be made to the Supreme
Court of Tasmania for an Order authorising
the said Public Trustee to distribute the
estate of the said deceased without regard to
the claim of the said Elsie May Gower.
C. BIDGOOD, Public Trustee, 446 Elizabeth
Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 878
ACROSS
I—Flotillas directed from such paving joints. (9)
4—Athenian garret. (5)
7—Everybody has you blushing when enticed. (7)
9—Parent with child who works in stone? (5)
11— Attempt some way to get a date. (5)
12— It may appear to see right through you. (1-3, 3)
13— So as to become a distress signal. (3)
14— Is estranged from plantation locales. (6, 5)
15— The Murrumbidgee passes
such fodder. (3)
16— Article on royalty takes a
considerable time. (3)
17— Number one to anger a pluto-
crat. (11)
18— Spring ahead of this antelope
sometimes. (3)
19— Somewhat fowl-like when
Nishapur is reduced. (7)
20— Positive comment on its future
suiting. (5)
22—Homes for fliers. (5)
24 Choose to run out a kind of
printing plate. (7)
25 Is restless disorder lacking a
nurse? (10)
26 Liberated from the hidden
reef. (4)
DOWN
1— Floored the unmusical baby
with whom be lodges. (4, 2,
3,6)
2 An outcry upset a thorough-
fare. (5)
3 Gaucheries in a guide to the
contents tree it is wrecking.
(13)
5 Williams lying in state. (9)
6 Hit inaccurate express bowl-
ing behind point? (3, 4,3, 5)
B—Club verses which shorten
tike hang-out? (6, 5)
9—A Rolls rolls rolls in such a
charitable service. (5, 2,6)
10—Tart contradicted a square
never been kissed either. (5, 7)
14—My hag sank, (anagram) (9)
21—Bury an examination in nitre.
(5)
23—A bluejacket helps to make
way. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 877


GENERAL CREDITS
LIMITED
Debenture Stocks
(Second Se ries)
n
k. 5-10 YEARS
UP TO
Applications can only proceed on the form enclosed with
the Prospectus which may be obtained from any recog*
nized stockbroker, or any branch of the Commercial Bank
Of Australia Limited, and all branches of
GENERAL CREDITS
111 William St. Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co.
6846
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C.B.A.
CANBERRA GRAMMAR SCHOOL
Due to increasing numbers, Assistant Master
to teach at Upper Primary level required either
February or May, 1966. Experience in teaching
of Art and Craft preferred.
Applicants should send curriculum vitae and
names of two referees to: —
HEADMASTER, Canberra Grammar School,
Canberra.
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Plenty of Favor from Grace
How to present an annual report
VfOW that W. R. Grace has been officially declared the winner of the Cresco
contest, the directors seem to be anxious that existing Cresco shareholders do
not accept the cash-exchange offer. Perhaps W. R. Grace never foresaw the possibility
of paying 90s. cash for each Cresco share.
In the circular to Cresco shareholders,
the benefits arising from the marriage
with Grace are highlighted as an entice-
ment for Cresco shareholders to stay with
the company.
W. R. Grace is certainly no fly-by-night
show. In fact, its annual sales are greater
than any Australian company. Paradoxi-
cally, its issued capital of $14,742,000
would not even place it in the first ten
companies in Australia, if issued ordin-
ary capital was the sole measure of size.
But, as already mentioned this year by
the chairman of Berlei, issued capital is
generally meaningless. Shareholders’
funds are a very much better indicator of
size and also as a measure of the rate of
profitability. W. R. Grace has share-
holders’ funds of almost $400,000,000.
Boosting the funds employed is
$260,000,000 of long-term borrowings.
What a contrast this make-up of funds
employed in the business is to the capital
structures of most large companies in
Australia.
W. R. Grace presents a wonderfully
informative annual report. The first half
is an excellent description in lay terms
of the firm’s activities. Then follows the
consolidated statement of income, which
gives a breakdown of revenue and costs
and not just a final profit figure. After
the accounts come two full pages of
“Notes to Financial Statements”. If a
highly successful company like Grace
considers that its accounts deserve this
length of explanation, why does a com-
pany like Astor Hotel-Motels (which is
bordering on the brink of insolvency)
give such relatively scant notes in its
annual report? The Grace report con-
cludes with several ten-year tables, in-
cluding a sales and fixed-asset breakdown
of the major divisions of the company.
If the annual, report of AWA is to be
regarded as a standard for Australia
we have a long way to go. The covet
seems more like an advertisement .for
bricks in the 1930s than a 1965 report
from an electronics company. Inside the
report there is the usual absence of sales
figures. Nor is there any proper break-
down of the profit and loss account,
Directors also apparently feel that there
is no need for any special notes to the
accounts.
If I didn’t believe that the general
market was going to rise, I’d be shorting
AWA at 23s. 6d. Instead, I’m buying
400 Peko Wallsend at 17s. 6d.
When the Rhodesia breakaway oc-
curred, Peko Wallsend shares bounced
up to 18s. 9d x In the lull that followed,
the share price reacted to 17s. 3d. Yet
the Rhodesian situation now looks more
explosive than ever. This part of Africa
could cave in without warning and cause
havoc with copper production there.
The United States is trying to prevent
the copper price getting out of control,
However, its release of 200,000 tons of
copper from the stockpile has made little
difference to the firmness of the world
price.
One broker has estimated that the
rise of £A55 per ton of copper which
has already taken place this year will
cause a 50 p.c. jump in Peko’s profits.
Extending his exercise, he concludes that
the shares should have a market value of
20s. 9d. based on the current year’s earn-
ings. Of course, Peko Wallsend has other
mining interests, including gold, silver,
rutile, zircon and tin; most of these also
bear watching.
To pay for the Peko, I sold the BHP
and so marked up a profit of £14.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
200 BHP ctg., 37/3 £365
BOUGHT
400 Peko Wallsend, 17/6 £359
The new financial year starts off with
a small credit of £6.
The portfolio now comprises:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
500 NAUC 28/6/65 7/- 6/9
1000 NG Gold 27/7/65 4/4 4/0
400 Pongrass 15/9/65 11/- 10/6
200 VAM 28/9/65 5/- 5/-
200 Hotel Metropole 21/10/65 17/6 18/9
220 Tyree 27/10/65 19/- 19/6
500 Brambles rts 3/11/65 5/- 5/-
1000 Jaywoth ctg. 10/11/65 1/- 1/-
300 R. W. Miller 11/11/65 19/- 19/6
300 Stocks & Holdings 17/11/65 12/6 12/6
200 Malleys 18/11/65 28/- 28/6
lono ! <ol ? te t ? , 24/11/65 12/6 12/6
1000 L. J. Hooker 24/11/65 3/1 3/4
400 Peko Wallsend 6/12/65 17/6 17/9


From BMC, the world's most experienced
light car makers
Exclusive East-West engine
Puts the big 998c.c. engine
transverse, to put more
space inside for
passengers Et luggage
Exclusive Hydrolastic
fluid suspension. Gives
incredible driving comfort
and incredible road handling
on all surfaces
Front Wheel drive. Puts the
power over the driven wheels
for incredible roadhandling,
greater stability
Exclusive Rotodip Process
Protects against rust with
a protective skin 7coats deep
Adds years more life
pounds more value
Besides: Penny a mile
economy (up to 50 m.p.g)
Big new 998c.c. engine
that tops 80 m.p.h;
New wind-up windows;
Completely new interior;
New racing style gear change
Dm
More than twenty million
training hours guarantee
unbeatable BMC service
wherever you see this sign.
New bigger brakes.
Full price £833
of course ,v,c/ " fesa *
Minis start from £789
*registered trade mark
including sales tax
The new look in Minis
is outside ; inside, under
the bonnet inside the
suspension


SIS
m
n
■
mam
qBMr
■Km
M
SSft
.
RV|j
V\
r&ZPe i
TS 0,
. . *", * £ * 4
v " y ’«* ,
■i 1 ) * _*' ‘ < * - * , »*• as
svP ( 5 *v *>:
*** { ,*>*** -*
k* a C? « 4
.
V
O'
5:
*6DEC 1965 Yi
o
ifp
; V
*1
H
M
>
, A
*%!
iSßttll
r*
&
I
‘TtiS*
a,' I'# 1 '#
swfeil
»«
SSI
Hv '
6
■'S
®gfi
Johnnie Walker
more
The convenient square bottle, the easy-to-pull
cork, the familiar Red Label and the famous
Johnnie Walker figure, are symbolic of the
enduring quality of this world-renowned whisky.
It is the same miraculously smooth and
mellow Scotch it has been for generations.
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
in miniatures, 5 oz., and 13 oz. flasks, 1 3 oz. and 26 oz. square bottles
JW.JSSaFPB
