

The Bulletin
« FILM CENSORSHIP
MAY 8, 1965
c
o
M
P
U
T
E
R
c
'
GENERATION
Ajhi- nf^t&sBc^g
Australia 2/-, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1


-
m
☆
'Cr
£ I
*■ .
«*wr nvgiub: 4
ms I
VsWTftSi S
>
K- ' ..#•
IMS*
r
vApJMBA 1
mWmET j
88 ' r«
jnpyl |;■ fp Bl ? 1 1 x i
L J >h>ttbo W fiS^ t \
w . MS"! > :^ > l. ' M I
\
Z/JW/J'
valumba
1 falls
«i 1 S I i
8*“- ■«
S®.
Get to know fine table wines Ask for Yalumba!
The reds and whites of Yalumba are highly prized in every
worthwhile cellar.
Selected Barossa Valley grapes are handled with painstaking
care to produce these superb examples of the vignerons' art.
But then, the Smiths of Yalumba have devoted five genera-
tions to making quality wines.
You expect the best from Yalumba And you get it!
GALWAY VINTAGE CLARET. Delightfully light Claret. Matured in
French oak casks and then laid down in the bottle to further mature.
MOSELLE. Light and bright, with the delicate sweet finish of a true
Moselle.
FOUR CROWN BURGUNDY. A soft and fuller flavoured red, beloved
of gourmets.
CARTE D'OR RIESLING. Pale and crisp, and made from Rhine
Riesling grapes grown in the Eden Valley district.
Yn liiml> «■ TABLE WINE
S. Smith and Son Pty. Ltd. Yalumba Vineyards, Angaston, South Australia
s


iHS
1
■
***■
Si*
% fwl
\
O
c&
?■
#
C:
%
»
V
*wr
a
. H
Item 356. Part of a remarkable removals job.
One antique vase. Very precious.
One item on an inventory for an
entire household. A Sydney business-
man’s household we moved 2,350
miles across Australia to Perth. Door
to door in three days! How? Aire-
movals! A new removals service that
made history for us. It also made a
very happy businessman. All his
family’s belongings, every stick of
furniture and one antique, precious
vase arrived without a scratch. By
air, road, rail or sea, no moving job
is too small, too big or too complex
for Grace Bros, to take anywhere in
Australia, anywhere in the world with
skill and care. A Grace Bros, expert
is only a phone call away in 12 cities
and major towns
if you would like
an accurate quote,
ring him now!
GRACE BROS
REMOVALS
2-0946 □ Melbourne 48-7316 □ Brisbane 5-4631 □ Adelaide 51-1316
Perth 24-5137 □ Canberra 9-0234 □ Hobart 34-3988 n Newcastle 2-4302
Townsville 6091 □ Lismore 2265 □ Murwillumbah 133 □ Queanbeyan 737
GR 48
The Bulletin
VOLUME 87
NUMBER 4445
Established 1880
MAY 8
1965
Computers
The Third Generation 64
American Books Supplement 48
AROUND MELBOURNE 27
ARTS AND ENTERTAIN-
MENT 44
BUSINESS AND FINANCE .... 59
CROSSWORD 86
LETTERS 43
MAN ON THE LAND 83
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 9
ON THE MARGIN 34
OVERSEAS 35
PLAIN ENGLISH 13
SHORT STORY 56
TANNER 12
THIS AUSTRALIA 14
GENERAL
The Dirty War 14
NSW Election 15
Homosexuality 21
Film Censorship 24
On the Rock 35
The Third Man 37
REVIEWS
FILMS: Zorba the Greek 47
MUSIC: The Borodin Quartet .... 47
BOOKS
Maxwell Geismar on the US
Literary Scene 48
An American Dream, by Norman
Mailer 50
Herzog, by Saul Bellow 51
FINANCE
Wage Teasers for the Com-
mission 61
Federal Government's Caution .. 62
Speculator's Diary 82
Editorial Office: 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088 Telephone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


|1 RANK XEROX
813 COPIER
m
-
WMmlmim
This is the new Rank Xerox 813 copier- it fits on your desk
Now everyone can have xerocopies
From the success of the Rank
Xerox 914 Copier springs the re-
markably compact new 813, speci-
ally designed for smaller offices with
limited space and lower copying
volume.
The new 813 does everything the
914 does —except copy from books.
The 813 dry copies from all colours
—anything written, typed or print-
ed —on to ordinary bond paper. Per-
fect copies. Xerocopies!
Like the bigger 914, the Rank
Xerox 813 Copier will make the
same startling difference to the
sharing of information in your or-
ganisation.
To all users of Rank Xerox 914
Copiers. If your output of xero-
copies is exceeding the capacity of
your 914, you will find the compact
new 813 a useful auxiliary, to keep
work flowing smoothly.
Now everyone can have xerocopies.
Ask your secretary to clip this
coupon for details.
lAJ
RANK
Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, Melbourne,
Perth, Adelaide, Canberra, Hobart. i492/64bl


m
STEP INTO
FRANCE
as you board
FROM SYDNEY TO THE U.S.A.
with colourful stopovers at TAHITI
and LOS ANGELES . . . and on to
Paris and London, too! And what a
delightful experience it is, flying fast,
French and fabulous. Remarkable not
only for its imaginative gourmet meals,
restful comfort and French hospitality,
but for the very special way you’re
treated. Travelling with the world’s
largest airline makes you feel like the
privileged member of a fascinating club.
*
*
*
*
AIR FRANCE
THE WORLD’S LARGEST NETWORK
33 Bligh St., Sydney. 28 0471 • 327 Collins St., Melbourne. 62 1635
49 Creek St., Brisbane. 2 8358
Imagine visiting a Hollywood
Studio, watching a movie in the
makihg! Our Welcome Service
helps you enjoy your stay at
every stopover.
%
NB32C


'^r~' —* * —
I
v ; r ''-
\
m
mwsmmm
r
mm
/
:
• •
sm
pm
m
For function, fashion, efficiency standardise on . . .
Brownbuilt steel office furniture
Brownbuilt offers you Australia’s largest range of
steel office furniture with every unit covered by
a 5 year Guarantee! This is positive proof of the
quality of workmanship and materials built into
all Brownbuilt products. Brownbuilt steel office
furniture is built to last . . . designed to make
the maximum use of valuable floor space. With
Brownbuilt furniture you can “space-engineer” your
office to obtain the most efficient working areas.
The comprehensive range available allows you
virtually “tailor-made” freedom when planning.
Add to all this the smart, clean, modern styling of
Brownbuilt office furniture and you have an unbeat-
able combination function, fashion, efficiency.
Call the Brownbuilt Free Advisory Service for assist-
ance in remodelling or planning your new office layout.
Illustrated are: —Office A Fliteline Credenza • Flite-
line Executive Modular • Tudor Cupboard/Wardrobe
• Office B Spaceline Typiste Desk • Spaceline Execu-
tive Desk • Office C Compactus Office File and
Storage Unit • 4-Drawer Vertical Files • Office D
Card Cabinets and Counter-Hi Sliding Door Cupboard
• Full Length locker • Two Tier Locker • Wondor
Cupboard • Visible Equipment Cabinet and Spaceline
Clerical Desk. These are only selections from the wide
Brownbuilt range:—
Better Buy Brownbuilt . . .
with the 5 Year Guarantee!
G'j t?.
Brownbuilt
STEEL EQUIPMENT DIVISION
y
•>)
USE OUR
FREE ADVISORY
SERVICE
MELBOURNE, 48 0311; SYDNEY, 27 7821; BRISBANE, 47 1747; ADELAIDE, 76 5111; CANBERRA, 9 4824;
PERTH, 21 5967; HOBART, 2 6571; LAUNCESTON, 2 5584. DISTRIBUTORS IN METROPOLITAN & COUNTRY CENTRES. 4681/C


ZBS
v96E
-t
IHIUiIOdIMB
J
*
'A
!!'j« J U
©
E
ivx
21
k
f
m
%
✓
i
a
i
«
SL
en
vj
\J
N.
<&
1:
Se^wi
f
•ir'S-?:
■ *\
V
sJUtsii
me
■:-■ ■ --
••-- -•
AMPOL- for sporting action
America's Cup . . . Canada Cup . . . Melbourne Cup . . . Olympic
Games ... car trials . . . water skiing . . . soccer . . . cricket
surfing . . . fishing contests . . . wherever there is sporting action
Ampol is in the thick of it all.
Ampol will continue in the role of sporting
sponsor because it is an Australian company with
the strong belief that sport helps build the nation.
BUILD AUSTRALIA- BUY AUSTRALIAN
fIMPOL
Owned and controlled by 85,


iH
\ y,
1
vww,
r
He
O
,A--
#r
m.
J^q\
u
r\ \
STC spends £| million annually to fit pieces together!
It took the correct placement of many pieces to bring the STC
Australian Pentaconta PABX Crossbar to its final stage of
perfection.
In modern laboratories, in experimental workshops, the unremitting
efforts of a highly-skilled technical staff were devoted to this
achievement. Behind them lay a considerable proportion of the
three-quarters of a million pounds that STC devotes each year to a
vast programme of research and development in the fields of
telecommunications and electronics.
Today STC Australian Pentaconta PABX represents the ultimate in
telephone systems. It is a system that introduces automation.
Operating from an automated push-button console, the telephonist
can easily handle the busiest telephone traffic.
The incredible speed of call following call puts more time into each
telephone day.
Pentaconta PABX completely outclasses all other PABX installa-
tions in speed, in ease of control and in reliability.
In operation, it is a tribute to the STC policy in continuing research
and development. For further information regarding STC Aus-
tralian Pentaconta PABX contact Standard Telephones and Cables
Pty. Limited, 252 Botany Rd., Alexandria, Sydney. Phone: 69 0444.
Melbourne 44 5161. Canberra 9 1043.
Distributors: QLD. Fred Hoe & Sons, Brisbane. 4 1771.
S.A.: Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., Adelaide. 51 3731.
W.A.: M. J. Bateman Pty. Ltd., Perth. 21 6461.
TAS: W. & G. Genders Pty. Ltd., Launceston.
2 2231, Hobart, Burnie, Devonport.
ASSOCIATE
worldwide telecommunications and electronics
KIBIA


National Notebook
Stay West, Young Man
'VTow, let’s see . . . between 7i and 12
per cent of the profit on
£390,000,000. That should make Perth’s
Garrick Agnew a millionaire a long time
before he turns 40. The name is fami-
liar. Agnew was a brilliant young swim-
mer who took off the 1950 Empire
Games 440yds freestyle title. That win
helped the young science student from
the University of Western Australia to
an athletics scholarship to Ohio State
University. From Ohio Agnew gradua-
ted in Arts with a first-class honors psy-
chology major and went on to Harvard
Business College with an academic, not
an athletics, scholarship. There he col-
lected a degree in 1954 and worked a
year in the Far East before returning
home to the West.
Garrick Agnew was Johnny on the
spot. He applied , his business learning
and bent to his new situation. He was
owner of two tramp steamers, trading
between Australia and the Far East.
He bought the hull of a broken
tanker, Bridgewater, and sold her for
scrap in Hong Kong. With a US
company, Howe Sound, he formed a
partnership to develop a magnesite mine
in the south of the State—Basic Materi-
als. Later this name went over to the
US concern Cleveland Cliffs, who have
now offered—with acceptance—35 per
cent of the equity to the Japanese Mitsui
group.
Agnew, meanwhile, had pegged a claim
on the Robe River in the far north-west,
in iron ore country at Mt Enid, 60 miles
inland from Onslow. When the find was
proved, he interested Cleveland Cliffs in
its vast possibilities . . . which last week
involved a £390 million contract to ex-
port Mt Enid ore, pelletised to the size
of a pea, to Japan’s steel mills. Mr
Agnew’s share of this will be at least 1\
per cent of the profits, but goes up on
some kind of sliding scale which will
undoubtedly put him in the millionaire
bracket within the ’60s. He is now 34.
Mannequins in a Mess
TV/T annequins and models always seem
so cool, so utterly controlled, that
it comes as a shock to be told that their
affairs in Melbourne have been “in a
shocking mess”.
The phrase comes from Mrs Barbara
Permezel (pronounced PERM’azelle),
newly elected president of the Manne-
quins and Models Guild in Melbourne.
(All guild office-bearers, in fact, are
newly elected, in a clean sweep of the
old leadership and committee.)
Mrs Permezel's condemnation of the
former management of the guild, which
is both a trade union and agency, has
appeared in the current issue (April 26)
of “Fashionweek”, the Melbourne rag-
trade journal.
We had a talk with Mrs Permezel,
who under her maiden name, Barbara
McGhie, was once in Sydney radio. She
has also been fashion co-ordinator for
Myers, and for the Wool Board.
We gather that under its previous con-
trol the guild fell into a disorganised
state.
Now a drive is on to increase member-
ship, and to gain standing as a union.
The guild has 100 members about half
the mannequins and models working
regularly in Melbourne. They pay three
guineas to join, and five guineas a year.
Mrs Permezel and her team will work
to eliminate unsatisfactory modelling
schools and “academies”, which take
high fees, give poor training, and fail
to deliver what they promise. They will
seek uniformity in scales of fees, and
keep a closer eye on the way girls are
treated by some employers.
The guild also hopes to get new pep
and drive into two. fashion events it has
been running—the “Gown of the Year”
and the “Mannequin of the Year”.
G-G Is Not Impressed
Oeporters waiting for Lord De L’lsle
to arrive for his final Australian
Press conference at Sydney's Admiralty
House last week tried out on each other
the questions they planned to ask the
Governor-General. Suggestions ranged
from chestnuts like “Do you think the
next G-G should be an Australian?” to
“What, exactly, is the art of Schweppes-
manship?” As it turned out, the con-
ference was classified as one of the least
formal given by any departing Briton out-
side of show business in this country.
After shaking each of the 20 inter-
viewers by the hand and requiring him
to introduce himself by name and re-
presentation the Governor - General
asked for deeper details before every-
one was seated in the Admiralty House
sitting-room. “Who owns 2SM?” he
wanted to know. Then he settled back
on a settee flanked by an aide equipped
with a tape recorder and desk mike. “For
my own record of the assassination,”
explained Lord De L’lsle.
He anticipated the “Australian G-G”
suggestion, said he wouldn’t answer that,
but he regarded himself as an Austra-
lian for as long as he was Governor-
General. Told that many people had
complained about giving NSW school-
children a holiday to mark his departure
from Australia, he said he hadn’t given
a holiday but had only requested one,
and how many people had complained,
to whom and when? “About two dozen
phoned in,” replied a radio man. “I’m
not impressed,” said Lord De L’lsle.
“Next?”
Then he told one reporter to omit
“genuinely” from a question and just
say what he thought. (“It sounds so much
better than ‘many people genuinely
believe’.”) Another report, he said, was
really awfully good the way he referred
to Australia as “the colonies”, and
would he mind saying it once again,
just for the official recording?
Queried about “the average Austra-
lian”, he told the reporter that when his
three small children had grown up he
would realise that there is no such
animal.
“The best since the Beatles,” someone
said during the farewells. “Now that you
must say again for my recording,”
beamed Lord De L’lsle.
"It's for you."


:' -
I :; ;. v
if
1
• - '• : - fM& ' ■■ :
;
SK* ;
; Si.v..
.
■% ‘sw
;¥
There is no limit to manufacturing prospects
in Queensland. Increasing industrial development
is paralleled by mounting discoveries of new natural
resources. As major industries are set up, oppor-
tunities are provided for establishing businesses
from quite modest resources indeed the activities
of the big enterprises must inevitably increase the
scope for smaller manufacturers.
A factory in Queensland has an immediate Queens-
land market of 1,589,000 people, an Australia-wide
market of more than 11,000,000 and just above,
an Asian market running into the hundreds of
Another new factory
for Queensland!
Write to
THE DIRECTOR
DEPARTMENT OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT
BRISBANE, AUSTRALIA
In Queensland you are always welcome!
millions! Queensland Local Authority rates and
services, land values and building costs com-
pare more than favourably with those in other
States.
Happily decentralised, Queensland has thriving
cities and towns which you will find listed by the
Department of Industrial Development as
“Regional Investment Areas in Queensland”. It is
the responsibility and pleasure of the Department's
senior officers to assist prospective investors and
you may find it worthwhile to check on these
individual Investment Areas.
SG - B7S


20th Century Monks
Qaigon’s Buddhist monks are skilled
PR men. On a week’s stopover in
Sydney between New York and Saigon,
former GTV-9 cinecameraman now
with the American Broadcasting Com-
pany in S-E Asia—Ron Headford, told
us about filming the war, the demonstra-
tions, the riots and the coups. There is
nothing other-worldly about the Buddhist
leaders. They knew how to use a tele-
phone, how to ensure the best and widest
coverage for a riot or demonstration,
and how to cultivate journalists.
“South Vietnam is the big overseas
news-story in the United States and we
send reports daily. This means about
five helicopter flights a week. We’ve
been shot at, but never hit. When we
go in very low over the tree-tops at great
speed I am told we are a difficult target.”
Headford had been flown to New
York by the ABC network to see new
production techniques in news pro-
grammes and to check his own film. Of
special interest was some of the film he
shot of the pagoda rioting which
preceded the overthrow of President
Diem. During this filming he was
arrested and—frustration of frustrations
for a cinecameraman—had to stand by
on a bridge while one of the biggest
riots of the coup occurred literally
“before my very eyes. I tried to set my
camera going by kicking it, but no luck”.
In most demonstrations Headford is
now a familiar figure in Saigon as are
the other television cameramen, sound
cameras strapped to their chests, being
swept along by the action and in some
cases having it staged for them, by what
he calls “the 20th Century monks”.
Ho w Informal Can You Get?
Singapore’s Prime Minister Mr Lee
Kuan Yew earned the biggest bar-
rage of criticism at home, as a result of
his Australian tour, following an “in-
formal chat” he had with Malaysian
students at the University of Western
Australia, just before his return. Though
the Perth Press was asked not to report
the chat, Malaysian reporters sent home
stories claiming that Mr Lee said the
indigenous Malays were a backward
people and that he criticised the special
rights accorded them.
It was enough to make excellent poli-
tical material for the Chief Justice of
the north Malay state of Perlis, Dato
Shiekh Ahmad; his claim that his 18-
year-old son Indris bin Dato Sheikh
Ahmad had fled Perth for London rather
than lose face as a result of Mr Lee’s
viewpdint was given a great deal of
publicity ... far more than the fact that
the son, after half a term at Perth’s Hale
School and nine months at Leederville
Tech., had left Perth for London before
his November examinations, and some
months before Mr Lee’s “affront”.
Angry Penguins
TT7HILE so many Australian publishers
’ are being taken over by UK firms,
one has gone the other way. A new
Australian publishing company has been
formed, the directors being Geoffrey
Dutton and Brian Stonier, the two people
responsible for the publishing of the
Australian Penguin series. They have
engaged Max Harris as their publishing
adviser. In view of the success of the
Penguin programme, it seems odd that
Stonier and Dutton are not continuing
with Penguins, but their experiences
have apparently made them decide to go
it alone. “The Lucky Country”, for
instance, one of their brain-children,
was rejected originally by the UK and
is still not available anywhere in the
world except Australia. Geoffrey Dut-
ton said that the new firm intends to
reverse the procedure and, by making
agreements with overseas publishers,
hopes to ensure that Australian books
reach the widest possible world audience.
As one would expect, they will be pub-
lishing paperbacks. When Sir Allen
Lane heard of the new venture he
responded in a friendly way; after all,
he said, that is the way Penguin Books
began 30 years ago.
PUTTING THE CLOCK BACK: PHIL MAY ON STATE AID, 1886
Guard Parkes: “To allow you, my little denominational girl, to travel free like them
secularists as is a larfin at ye, would be an orrible hinfraction of the fourteenth section
of Parkes’s heducation Hact —an’, furthermore, a Hinsult to the pious and immortal
memiry.”
—From THE BULLETIN , August, 8, 1886


Tanner
"Actually I think the Vietcong is part of the dollar plot to involve us in the War."


PLAIN ENGLISH
An Historic Saturday
YMhat happened in Sydney last Satur-
day night will almost certainly be
of historic importance in Australian
political history both for the Liberal
Party and the Labor Party. What
happened, in a nutshell, is that, in
Australia’s leading “Labor State”,
there was a massive swing of the tra-
ditional Labor Right-wing voters over
to the Liberal Party. The Liberals
achieved their largest primary vote in
any NSW election, State or Federal,
for about 30 years. This represents
stiiking endorsement of the policies of
Mr R W._Askin and his determination
over the past three years to re-shape
t lC *i , * , lbe , Pa , rt y- , ,
Although Federal Liberals have been
willing in recent years to refurbish
the liberal ideas of 1949 and adapt
themselves to the new voters - the
young, the New Australians, the new
affluent, the new Catholics and so on
- the State Liberals had continued,
until the emergence of Mr Askin, to
live in something like the pre-war
UAP past. They" seemed to regard
any acknowledgment of the need for
welfare legislation as “Socialism”;
many even regarded State Aid to
private schools as somehow or other
a betrayal of the Reformation. Long
after it became obvious that masses of
ALP Right-wing supporters in NSW
wanted to vote for the Liberal Party,
the Liberals, in the pre-Askin period,
seemed consistently to make it plain
that they did not want those votes,
especially if they were from Catholics.
They were, like the Victorian ALP
Executive, preferring to fade away,
preserving the integrity of their out-
dated and narrow principles rather than
govern their State.
Mr Askin’s great achievement is to
have changed all that. He has moved
his Party from the Right-wing last
ditches firmly into the Centre; in fact
his policies on many matters did not
seriously differ from the ALP’s. But
he made it clear that he meant business
and above all, by his policy on direct
State Aid, that the Liberal Party was
no longer a “Protestants Only” party.
This represents an historic realign-
ment just as his defeat would have
represented a victory for the last-dit-
chers in the NSW Liberal Party. Taken
along with NSW Liberal victories in
Federal elections, the decks may now
be cleared for the conversion of NSW
into Australia’s premier Liberal State.
For the Labor Party the story is, at
least in the short term, utterly different.
The move of its Right-wing supporters
over to the Liberals last Saturday hit
at both its Right wing and its Left
wing, with the Right wing suffering, if
anything, more than the Left. Its defeat
shows conclusively that the ALP Right
wing can no longer try to survive by
ignoring the fact that on major matters
it is dominated by the Leftists. Look-
ing forward, one may see Saturday’s
defeat as encouragement to those
Right-wingers who want a root-and-
branch reform of the ALP and the ex-
pulsion of the Left wing. That must
come in time, but so deep is the
ideological corruption of that Party
that the reformers may still have years
of struggle ahead of them, and we can
expect to see Labor people tearing
each other to pieces in the coming con-
ferences. But, as the NSW Liberals
found in the pre-Askin days, that is
the price one pays for living in the past.
Into the Delta
T HE decision to send the first Royal
Australian Regiment to Vietnam
has been welcomed throughout Aus-
tralia, although enthusiasm will be
tempered by a heavy heart since Aus-
tralian casualties in that dirty war are
inevitable. But it has been plain to
the whole world that South Vietnam
is Australia’s front line and that the
South Vietnamese have been fighting
and dying for many years for what are
Australia’s interests as much as their
own. Since the loss of that country
to the Communists would inevitably
be followed by the Communisation of
the rest of South-East Asia, Australia
has no alternative but to contribute in
some significant way to its defence,
The basic fact about South Vietnam
is that it has been invaded on a large
scale by North Vietnam, supplied with
Red China’s arms. They already
occupy half of the country, and but for
American retaliation, may by now
have occupied all of it. The other
options we had there have one by one
been ruled out. Retreat has been im-
possible; for America it would be a
colossal set-back in the world, for
Australia it would be close to suicide.
Negotiation was ruled out by North
Vietnam, which is only interested in
the sort of “peace” that results from
conquest. Winning the war without
retaliation against North Vietnam and
without reinforcements from South
Vietnam’s allies became impossible
when North Vietnam openly invaded
South Vietnam and escalated the war.
The only option left was to strike
back at North Vietnam and commit
more allied ground troops to the South.
The risk we run is that Red China
will turn the war into another Korea.
However, for all its revolutionary fire,
Red China has been basically a
cautious military power, preferring to
win its victories by subversion rather
than by open declaration of war at
least until it becomes a significant
nuclear power. It knows that if it
entered this war openly on a large
scale the first target which American
bombers would hit would be its nuclear
installations. It also knows that many
Americans and Europeans believe that
such a bombing policy is desirable in
any case. It is unlikely to present
America with an invitation to do it.
The commitment of 800 Australians
will obviously not turn the tide of the
war. It will help South Vietnam, it
will help the Americans, but above all
it shows that Australia recognises its
obligations as a Pacific Power.
New Athens
HThe Bulletin in this issue has a
8-page report on contemporary US
writing and a selection of especially
commissioned American poetry. We
are doing this principally because
American literature is today the world’s
liveliest, but also because Australian
literary magazines have as a whole
shown a provincial indifference to it.
A magazine like “Meanjin” has done
outstanding service in making Aus-
tralian readers more aware of Euro-
pean literature, but even it has taken
little more than a perfunctory interest
in American literature. Perhaps the
role of London as the continuing centre
of Australian expatriates also helps
bolster the illusion of English cultural
supremacy in the English - speaking
world. It is a cliche that America is the
new Rome. The fact is it is also the
new Athens. The Bulletin’s Ameri-
can issue is a modest attempt to look
at things more accurately.


THIS AUSTRALIA
VIETNAM
The Dirty War
The Digger on the Delta
CANBERRA— Lt-Col I. R. W. Brum-
field has been assigned by Canberra to
take a battalion of 800 men to assist
the Americans in the defence of South
Vietnam in a war which may well
involve Red China. These men have not
been committed to a conventional war
but to what the American Special Forces
have described as a dirty war. I have
seen what the Vietcong has done (the slit
throat tactics), and Australia, having
made the honorable decision to commit
its fighting men, must expect more
casualties than it has received in the
tedious business of protecting Malaysia.
The function of the Australian troops
is combat. The job will be to fight in a
territory which defeated the French
Army, w'here the rainfall is 140 inches a
year, which will inhibit air support, and
in a terrain wdiich is utterly unlike any-
thing Australians have had to fight in
before. It will be the night and the
knife, and the fact that the Australians
have had the courage to commit these
men is an act of distinction which the
British with their Special Troops—the
28th Infantry Brigade Group stationed in
Malaysia—have not managed to equal.
The Australians are facing an enemy
with a peculiar fighting capability. He
is dedicated. He will live on a bag of
rice. He is a slight man who has lived
in the padi—the rice fields—all his life
and his cunning is the cunning of a peas-
ant. He is essentially alien to the Euro-
pean. It will not be easy to determine
where the enemy lies—for this is not
Korea. There are no set lines of defence
or attack. The Vietcong numbers
35,000 troops and probably 140,000 men
who work by day and fight by night.
(The regular troops were the men who
fought at Dien Bien Phu and destroyed
the French Army—and the French
Foreign Legion.)
Each night the Vietcong is likely to
kill 150 mem—they prefer to attack be-
fore dawn, when haze cloaks their move-
ments. The Australian soldier in the
Vietnamese rice fields (which is where he
is going to be) will be an evident target
indeed. For the rice fields are worse
than New Guinea, where at least the
enemy was identifiable. Shadows is a
word that comes readily to the mind
when dealing with the Vietcong.
The Vietcong insurrection began long
before the 1954 Geneva Convention. Ho
By ANTHONY BROWN
Chi-minh’s agreement to end the nine-
year war with France was evidently a
mere delaying tactic. The whispy
bearded President —about whom there is
no reliable biography—infiltrated 32,000
partisans into South Vietnam to create
cadres of fighting men to secure eventu-
ally all Indo-China. His fighting men,
WARRANT OFFICER KEVIN CONWAY, who was
killed in a Vietcong raid in South Vietnam nearly
a year ago.
about sft. 3in. tall, are armed with Chin-
ese weapons and their facility at fighting
comes not so much from guerrilla capabil-
ity but from complete ideological belief.
They have lived for many years in the
high hills of the Montagnard, or in clan-
destine circumstances south of the 17th
Parallel. The horrible business of throat-
slitting—they believe—is regrettable but
politically necessary.
By Asian standards the presence of
the Australian fighting man in Vietnam
will cause a partial regeneration of the
men who really have to do the fighting
day and night—the South Vietnamese
Army. The army is demoralised yet
peculiarly brave. They were bred by
the French, imbued with the elan of St
Cyr, yet they are the progeny of the
Americans —and the tragedy is that until
now they have been largely unsupported,
politically, by the entire anti-Communist
The 1st Battalion of the Royal Australian Regiment, some of the men who will go to South Vietnam, marching in the Churchill memorial parade.


CAPTAIN TUNG, training officer at Phu Bai,
with CAPTAIN REX CLARK of Brisbane.
world. They have been repeatedly ex-
pected to die for reasons obscure to them.
Now the Digger is coming to the delta.
Already, of course, the RAAF has six
Caribous in Vietnam and 100 “advisers”
—and I think that the presence of these
men is considerable inspiration for the
ARVJN. (ARVIN is the teletype code
name for the Army of South Vietnam.)
Although Ho Chi-minh is the political
enemy, the real enemy is not Ho, but
Giap, his military leader—the man who
wrote a thesis for revolutionary insurrec-
tion which measures up to Mao’s theory
of the protracted war. Now North Viet-
nam's defence minister. General Vo
Nguyen Giap wrote “People’s War,
People’s Army”. He analysed guerrilla
war as a protracted conflict progressing
through three stages. The first stage has
already been accomplished—concealed
mobilisation and guerrilla forays. Sc has
his second stage —the open use of highly
mobile outfits. It is likely that these are
of between 1500 and 3000 men—and the
reason for the imprecision is the intense
secrecy with which Giap has surrounded
his military operations. The First Royal
Australian Regiment is now meeting the
Vietcong in the third stage of General
Giap’s campaign. Of this stage he has
written. “Only a long-term war enables
us to transform our weakness into
strength. Thousands of small victories
accumulate into a great success.”
There are many graves in Vietnam.
In fact, save for the beauty of the
womanhood, the number of graveyards
is one of the constant memories that a
correspondent has of the nation, from
Hue to Cap St Jacques via Saigon. The
Japanese, the French, the Chinese, the
Americans, the British, the Vietnamese
have fought across this sliver of Asia for
almost a quarter of a century. And now
the Australians are going in.
NSW ELECTIONS
The Liberals’ Saturday Night
And the DLP’s preferences
SYDNEY Narrow margins over a
range of seats at the close of counting
on Saturday night bolstered Labor’s
hopes that the New South Wales Govern-
ment had not finally been tumbled from
office by the Liberal-Country Party
Opposition after 24 years. Yet there was
Sunday morning. A million phone calls
later, and Liberals knew that there was a
swing from Labor, greater even than
those in the 1963 and last year's Senate
elections. The Opposition had made a
gain of six seats, and, at worst, needed
only two more from the remaining six
in doubt to take office.
State aid will be the most contentious
issue in election post-mortems as it was
during the campaign. There were cer-
tainly other factors—notably transport—
in what appears a sure swing of seven
per cent against Labor in the highest
Liberal primary vote in 30 years in
NSW, but none was more significant
than State aid. As the final week of
the campaign opened, Labor was bluntly
warned of the over-riding importance
of State aid and transport in the results
of a private survey which forecast that
Labor would lose the election on these
issues in key city electorates.
In the following days Labor officials
and others took heart at the heightened
By BRIAN JOHNS
controversy surrounding aid. The Press
canvassed the Catholic Church’s public
stance of neutrality on the parties
somewhat compensating for Sydney
auxiliary Bishop Muldoon’s earlier warm
tribute to Mr R. W. Askin's policy—and
the vocal but unidentifiable shouts of pro-
test from anti-State aiders among Lib-
erals. The hopes were misplaced. As with
the disclosure of the DLP’s circular on
State aid to priests and principals of
independent schools, the publicity high-
lighted Mr Askin's promises. The fact
that some took hope from these develop-
ments showed also a misunderstanding of
an important element in the political
breakthrough Mr Askin made by his
promises of State aid.
There has long been a potentially
significant number of Catholics who are
natural Liberal voters. Only bigots and
old-fashioned Liberals who persist in
believing that Catholics are a race apart
are incredulous that factors such as
affluence and Labor’s resistance to
change attract and repel Catholics as
much as others in the community. The
real barrier to political change among
Catholics is that they have felt —justi-
fiably for many years—< that they are
not wanted in the Liberal Party.
Mr Askin’s promise of aid and the
effort in Ash Street to get Catholics as
Liberal candidates shattered this barrier.
Results in the country seats of Monaro
and neighboring Goulburn illustrate the
dividends for the Opposition of these
policies. Well known as nerve centres
of Catholic feeling on the education issue
(overshadowing a swing-seat like Lismore
and Coogee where the issue was iirtr
portant for special local reasons),
Monaro and Goulburn were regarded as
the flashlights of Mr Askin's policy. In
each the Catholic vote was sufficiently
split to ensure the victory of Opposition
candidates.
There were, of course, other factors in
the success of the Opposition in these
seats, principally the outstanding per-
sonalities of the candidates. There was
some surprise among observers at the
success of the Country Party candidate,
Mr R. A. Brewer, in Goulburn over the
Liberal, Mr J. Keating, a Catholic who
was prominent in the closedown of
schools in Goulburn. Mr Keating is
thought to have suffered because he was
associated very closely in some quarters
with the local Catholic establishment.
But the seat goes to preferences, and
votes that Mr Keating attracted from the
ALP candidate, Mr McDermott, a
Catholic and Mayor of Goulburn, will
be decisive.
The Country Party’s success in Goul-
burn illustrates the value there still is in
the personal vote outside metropolitan
areas. There is no doubt that Mr
Brewer received a proportion of the
dissident Liberal vote on State aid an
R. W. ASKIN


irony because the Country Party was
early to promise direct aid in the State —
but this was outweighed by his personal
standing and the fact that he was backed
by shrewd campaign lines plotted in part
for the NSW Country Party by Mr Bill
Carew, who resigned as Press secretary
to the Federal Country Party Leader,
Mr McEwen, to do the job.
Labor men are now saying that more
heed should have been paid to the
advice of the Deputy Leader of the
Opposition, Mr Whitlam, after the last
Federal election on the selection of
candidates, particularly in the key seats.
They point to the outstanding success cf
Sydney’s Lord Mayor, Mr H. Jensen,
whose win in the seat of Wvong, held by
the former Speaker, Mr R. Maher,
showed the only real swing to Labor in
the State.
The election shows also that the party
reorganisation and added resources
advocated by the ALP’s Federal Sec-
retary, Mr Cyril Wyndham, and Mr
Whitlam. are badly needed. The Liberal
Party, .particu’arly in NSW, seems well
aware of the importance of a modern
party machine.
There is no comfort for the Labor
Party in the role played in the election
by the DLP. It is difficult to dispute
DLP NSW secretary Mr J. Kane’s con-
tention that his party's preferences are
decisive in seven or eight seats. This
does not take into account the DLP’s
role in carrying the Liberal's campaign
messages on aid and Federal domination
of the ALP into further prominence.
However close the final result, in the
event of a loss Mr Askin would be in
real danger of finding himself a scape-
goat. State aid and the NSW Liberal
Party’s ready dropping of unsuccessful
party leaders are grounds enough for
this prediction. But it is unthinkable
that- there should be fears for Mr Ren-
shaw in the circumstance of defeat.
In 12 months as Premier, Mr Renshaw
went an incredible distance in rehabili-
tating the image of an outmoded and
tired party. After the poor start of an
uninspiring policy speech, Mr Renshaw
campaigned with verve and strength. At
the special Premiers’ Conference in the
midst of the campaign, Mr Renshaw’s
resistance to the ready temptation of
making party capital was acknowledged
by the Prime Minister, Sir Robert
r Menzies, as his presentation of the State
case on tax reimbursements was acknow-
ledged by the Commonwealth and by
his fellow Premiers.
The most important area for Labor’s
self-recrimination over the election result
will be in the Federal ALP. If the NSW
branch had had its way at recent meet-
ings of the ALP Federal Executive it
would have acted on Communist infiltra-
tion -in the unions and on the far less
important issue of State aid. Labor
leaders in NSW are bitter at the electoral
humiliation they believe has been forced
on them by a section of the Federal ALP
Executive. They will not be in a mood
for compromise at the next meeting at
the end of the month. Nor for that
matter will be their opponents on the
Executive who are always prepared to
attribute any Labor setback outside their
own sphere as the result of a failure to
adhere to principle.
The Executive meeting this month will
only be a prelude to the August meeting
of the ALP’s supreme policy body, the
ALP Federal Conference. This con-
ference will lay down Labor policy for
the next two years—overlapping the next
Federal election and the whole ques-
tion of State aid, for example, is due for
review. This and other issues could be
the springboard from which the im-
mediate practical question of party
leadership could be thrown open.
Malingering NSW Labor could well find
the strength for a determined, no-com-
promise reinvolvement in the Federal
Party as a result of its electoral medicine.
ECONOMY
Holt’s Failure in Washington?
A tinge of wishful thinking
MELBOURNE A tinge of wishful
thinking colored Mr Holt’s summing-up
of results of his finance mission to
America. His main object in going there
was to follow up Prime Minister Sir
Robert Menzies’ personal entreaties m
US President Johnson to have Aus-
tralia, like Japan and Canada, exempted
from his curb on the export of private
capital to the twenty-two developed
countries listed in February. If Mr Holt
had succeeded in getting this exemption
H. HOLT
we would not have been treated to such
a bout of equivocation, skirting around
the main point. In fact he did not get
the exemption and had to put the best
face possible on the failure.
All that Mr Holt seems really to have
achieved in Washington is a series of
warm assurances of official co-operation
in solving capital provision problems.
These assurances probably finished up by
being all the warmer in the light of the
additional Australian military support of
US efforts in Vietnam — pledged, in the
course of Mr Holt’s discussions.
However, a “strong desire” to mitigate
the effects of the curbs on the Australian
balance of payments is a good deal less
than being exempted like Canada and
Japan. For the US Administration to
say it will look sympathetically at the
flow of US private capital to Australia
falls short of actually turning a blind
eye to it. Provision for close consulta-
tion in the event of difficulties arising is
not as good as acting to prevent the
occurrence of such difficulties. If Mr
Holt thought these were an effective sub-
stitute for actual exemption from the
curbs, it is a little difficult to understand
his stress on the possible alternative need
to make adjustments to the economy in
the event of his interpretation of helpful
and hearty US attitudes at the talks not
being justified by subsequent events.
The US Administration proved to be
rather tougher than Mr Johnson’s reply
to the PM’s original protest on the curbs
on private capital outflow might have led
us to think. There was not even a hint
that we might in some way be spared the
continued full impact of the tax equalisa-
tion measure which blocks the issue of
Australian Government loans in New
York. One can only hope that the im-
pression left by the seminar on Australia,
which preceded the official talks, was
good enough to oil the Wall Street works
for the variety of redemption and re-
curring financial tasks the Australian
authorities have to accomplish there in
the near future. The successful fulfil-
ment of these tasks will go some way
to offset the unfortunate ban on the
raising of new Australian loans in New
York, for which nobody really regards
the floating of Euro-dollar loans as a
wholly satisfactory substitute (for one
thing, as the reduction in the size of the
first of these loans from 40 to 25 million
dollars testifies, the funds available are
strictly limited and in all the keener
demand following the generally tighter
world liquidity situation).
Finally, though Mr Holt was bound
to mention them, a variety of sore points
in Australian trading relations with the
US were raised without more, apparently,
than polite attention being given to


them. These range from the high US
duties on Australian wool, quotas on
lead, zinc, sugar and butter imports from
Australia and the curbs on Australian
. pieat sales to the US. Doubtless US
officials, who profess that Australia has
genuine complaints on all these scores,
are quite sincere, but they still have to
satisfy the strong American lobbies who
think quite otherwise, and one would not
be very hopeful of anything tangible re-
sulting from the “fresh study” Mr Holt
says Washington is to make of the points
he raised.
So while Mr Holt’s visit seems to have
been very much worthwhile, one cannot
say with any certainty that he achieved
anything much beyond getting the. US
to look at mutual capital and commer-
cial relations more in the light of the
closer defence ties being forged between
our two countries. The latter have their
more obvious aspects in regard to Viet-
nam but, in the background, is the pay-
ment for the massive scale of Australian
orders for defence equipment to be met
over the next few years. The magnitude
of this task increases daily in inverse
proportion to the reduction in our over-
seas reserves.
J. C. HORSFALL
NEW GUINEA
Disgust at
Bulolo
“A lot of work still to be done ”
CANBERRA A small group of
men in New York will study particularly
carefully a statement to be made in
Federal Parliament this week by the
Minister for Territories, Mr C. H.
Barnes. Their interest stems from a six-
week visit to New Guinea and Nauru
as members of the UN Trusteeship
Council Mission assigned to report on
Australia’s handling of affairs in the
Territory. Mr Barnes’ statement on Aus-
tralia’s attitude to the World Bank
Mission proposals for economic develop-
ment of the Territory will have an im-
portant bearing on the Trusteeship
Mission’s report.
Monsieur Andre Naudy, the leader,
may have got a line on the Federal Gov-
ernment’s intentions when he and his
men slipped into Canberra last week with
an absolute minimum of publicity. Cer-
tainly the 59-year-old French career
diplomat was giving nothing away in a
cautious interview as he sat in the lounge
of Canberra’s laughably inadequate air-
port terminal.
Australia reports to the UN every
year on its New Guinea operations. But
the Trusteeship Council sends out its own
party every three years to size up the
situation and hear the complaints or
compliments of the locals. Monsieur
Naudy and his mission visited most
districts of New Guinea to talk to
politicians, local councillors, school-
children, businessmen, villagers, students
and many others. He reported “things
were going pretty well”, and the members
were impressed by some of the achieve-
ments of the Australian administration.
There had been a few examples of
racial discrimination but these were
mainly economic and there was no major
problem. “The people of New Guinea
realise that they are being fairly treated
by the Australian Government and
appreciate the efforts being made to
improve their future,” said Monsieur
Naudy. “Criticisms? Yes, of course we
shall make some suggestions but it would
not be right to disclose them now.”
A British member of the mission
politely declined interview, pointing out
that members had agreed among them-
selves to leave all statements to Monsieur
Naudy. Nathanial Eastman, alternate
delegate for Liberia, on the Trusteeship
Council, acknowledged this bond but
said bluntly:
“I am not at all satisfied with the
political advancement of the indigenes.”
Mr Eastman had other complaints,
although he was gratified by the estab-
lishment of the House of Assembly. In
particular, there were several cases of
racial discrimination including a “dis-
gusting” one at Bulolo where indigenes
patronising a general trading store were
served from a window and whites only
were allowed inside. Mr Eastman’s over-
all impression: “Fair a lot of work
still to be done.”
JOHN WEBB
AUTOMATION
Galbraith’s Purgatory
How to employ the uneducated
MELBOURNE —The United States
pictures the various forms of Paradise
and Purgatory to which other countries
can look forward, Professor John Ken-
neth Galbraith said in his Keynote
Address to the International Congress on
Human Relations in Melbourne on Mon-
day. He cited this as being one of the
advantages of having the United States.
Looking at the prospect of keeping
down unemployment in the light of
automation, he regarded the chances of
success better in countries like Australia
than in either Western Europe or the
United States, where the chances were
worst of all. In the US, by common
consent, he said, economic policy would
be counted a success if unemployment
could be kept below a certain minimum,
perhaps three to five per cent of the labor
force. In Australia the minimum would
be somewhat lower.
A precondition would probably be that
this would entail producing things of in-
creasing unimportance and we will be
doing this with more and more machin-
ery. However, he considered that, given
the trend, our chances of keeping down
unemployment and thus making our
economic policy a success are not entirely
bright. “For it is one of the less agree-
able tendencies of the modern industrial
system that success along some dimen-
sions causes failure along others. The
technical virtuosity which serves us well
in some respects will cause problems as
regards employment. The problem will
be increasingly difficult the more ad-
vanced the industrial system.”
The thrust of the industrial system,
being for mechanisation and automation
(both for economic and extra-economic
strategies), is demanding increasingly
higher educational qualifications, and un-
employment in the United States, Gal-
braith said, is now largely the result of
the delayed response of the educational
to the industrial system, and it exists in
the disparity between the two. The deter-
mining influence shaping the educational
system is the industrial system (despite
the vanity of educators that they shape
the educational system to their chosen
image).
He stressed that the problem of the
insufficiently educated was their un-
employability in the industrial system and
that the expansion of demand is not a
remedy for this unemployment. A more
rapid accommodation of education to
industrial need is a remedy. National
educational standards and a more uni-
formly qualified domestic working force
combined (possibly) with a lower stage
of technical development, and the avail-
ability of a mobile force of imported
workers, have enabled European coun-
MT ISA STAR THEATRE
With reference to the article headed
“Go Tell It On The Mountain”
on page 16 of the issue of April 24,
1965, The Bulletin states that it
did not impute or intend to impute
or imply that Queensland’s Special
Police were hidden in the projection
box at the Mt Isa Star Theatre during
mass meetings with the knowledge or
approval of the proprietors of that
theatre and if any such imputation or
implication has been drawn, it is
regretted.


tries to keep unemployment at low'er
levels than in the United States.
“I would judge that you have had
similar success,” the Professor stated.
“But it is the lesson of our experience
that educational requirements become
increasingly demanding. It will require
great vigilance and great effort to profit
from our experience and keep the quali-
fications of the labor force abreast of
requirements. No part of the country
and no economic sector and in our
case, no racial group can be allowed
to supply unqualified and hence un-
wanted labor power to the industrial
system. And, to repeat, the industrial
system is not static. There is a constant
elevation of requirement, a continuing
redundancy of those who fall below the
minimum requirement. Accordingly
there must be a rapid improvement in
the educational system in order to keep
even with the employment problem.
“But perhaps the day is not distant,”
he stated, “when we will need to con-
sider more carefully the purpose of the
industrial system. I began by saying that
our present test of its success is the
employment it provides regardless of
need. This might, if workers became
increasingly expendable, be too difficult
a test. Instead we might wish to consider
how we can meet our needs with a
minimum of well-distributed effort. This
would require a drastic alteration in our
attitudes. Toil would no longer be an
end in itself. It would become, instead,
a means to the end of providing for
our needs. This is a disturbing note on
which to end. But it is a prospect we
might have to face.”
UNIONS
The Letters
AWU boycott
SYDNEY —The end of the Australian
Workers’ Union boycott of the Parlia-
mentary Labor Party moved one step—
just one —closer last week. The Leader
of the Opposition, Mr A. Calwell, wrote
to the general secretary of the AWU,
Mr T. Dougherty, informing him of a
Caucus decision on March 31 for a con-
ference between the four Parliamentary
leaders and AWU officers to discuss
“methods by which cordial relationships
may be restored”. Mr Calwell’s letter
last week was his second to the AWU on
the boycott. Earlier, he had written to
the AWU general president, Mr Edgar
Williams, but Mr Dougherty let it be
known that he regarded this as a breach
of protocol and that no talks would be
held until he personally had received
word from the Federal ALP.
But Mr Dougherty responded quickly
to the letter by suggesting a confrontation
between his union and the Parliamentary
leaders last Friday so that he could
report on the matter to the AWU Coun-
cil meeting in Adelaide this week. Un-
fortunately, Mr Calwell had “prior com-
mitments”.
As a result, there is no chance of the
rift—through which Federal Labor stands
to lose some £30,000. in donations from
and services by the AWU—-between the
two bodies being healed until July
when the AWU Council next meets in
Sydney. It is likely that the four Parlia-
mentary leaders and the AWU officers
will confer in preparation for the Coun-
cil ratification of any agreement at the
end of May.
Meanwhile, in Adelaide this week an-
other protracted AWU dispute advances
with the AWU Council’s hearing of
charges against the AWU State president,
Mr Don Cameron—brother to Clyde—
and 11 of his colleagues for alleged
breach of rules. Whatever the outcome,
there is little chance of the early end of
factional strife that has racked the
branch, now in the hands of the AWU
Federal Executive.
PUBLIC SERVICE
Purse Strings
South Australia’s problem
ADELAIDE After its first reaction
of alarm and dismay after the March
elections, the Public Service in South
Australia has rapidly returned to normal.
There have been several changes, but no
signs of an overall shake-up which
senior officers feared after the Playford
Government was ousted.
Playford’s secretary of four years,
Mr John White, has moved up to head
of the new Premier's Department, which
Mr F. Walsh created to provide liaison
between himself and the other depart-
ments, as well as to foster secondary in-
dustry in SA. Another senior Public Ser-
vant to benefit from the change of gov-
ernment is the former Assistant Under-
secretary, Mr W. F. Isobell, who has be-
come head of the new Department of
Transport.
In handing over the government,
Playford said: “We have had the privi-
lege of working with the best Public
Service in Australia.” But dissatisfaction
with the way Playford paid for that
privilege is believed to have cost him
many Public Servants’ votes in the elec-
tion. In the election campaign, Walsh
promised a review of Public Service
salaries.
The man most affected by the change
is the able Under-Treasurer, Mr Gilbert
Seaman. Used to the tight-fisted ways
of Playford, Seaman will be hard put to
keep the Treasury afloat on the flood
of schemes, including a 500-bed hospital,
announced by the Labor Administration.
An estimated £lm. will be added to the
Government’s wages bill by the Pre-
mier’s offer of service payments ranging
from 10s. to 255. a week to daily-paid
Government employees. Walsh’s plea
to the Loan Council meeting in Can-
berra for another £sm. was an attempt
by Seaman—who prepared Walsh’s argu-
ments for him—to stave off a record
deficit of £3m. tor which the new
Government is heading this financial
year.
ALP
Left Turn
7 ownsville's unknown element
BRISBANE Unless there is a dra-
matic change in allegiance and voting
strengths, the Left-wing Brisbane Trades
Hall group of unions, once more, will
control the ALP in Queensland after
next week’s State Convention at Towns-
ville. I here is, however, an element of
unknown strength among the Trades
Hall unions which felt that the actions
of some craft unions were too extreme
during the Mount Isa dispute. This may
lead to an attack on Mr Jack Egerton,
Queensland ALP Central Executive
member, who also is president of the
Queensland Trades and Labor Council,
which directed unions during the dispute.
Both the AWU and the Trades Hall
craft unions, traditional opponents at
Labor-in-pohtics conventions, were very
active when plebiscites were held to
select delegates to the Convention last
year and early this year. Although the
AWU gained some additional strength
though the plebiscites, there will not
be sufficient—according to experienced
political observers —to enable the AWU
to dominate the Townsville Convention.
At Bundaberg, when the last ALP Con-
vention was held, the Trades Hall group
had a varying majority of about 20.
But at Townsville this majority should
fall to 15, perhaps 12. There is a
strong belief that the usual faction fight
will not be as intense this time as at
Bundaberg.
The AWU State Secretary and
Federal President, Mr Edgar Williams,
said last week: “All we (the AWU) desire
is a balanced ALP that can win elec-
tions.” This seems to indicate that the
AWU intends to adopt a compromising
attitude at the Convention, possibly
aimed at removing bad feeling engen-
dered by the Mount Isa dispute. Simi-
larly, there is a belief that the Trades
Hall group may be less aggressive in its
approach to Convention matters. This
would have to be seen to be believed.
About 140 delegates are expected to
attend the Convention to lay down ALP
policy for next year's State election. The
140 will comprise 78 from Queensland
electorates, and the rest from unions.


Rocking the Boat
An Aspro’s defence of Dr K.
Ilf hate ver moves, if any, follow from
meetings of the Sydney University
Senate and the Professorial Board this
week to reconsider the rejection of Dr
Knopfelmacher from an appointment to
Senior Lecturer in Philosophy, the issues
raised by the rejection were clearly being
taken seriously as protests from acade-
mics, students at Melbourne University
and bodies like the Association for Cul-
tural Freedom showed.
In the meantime the newspaper reader
who devours the letters to the editor
columns with his breakfast must have
feasted well this last fortnight. Whether
he was any clearer at the end of the
fortnight on just why Dr Knopfelmacher
had been rejected by the Professorial
Board was a moot point. As Associate
Professor Henry Mayer said last week—
the case was getting more “complex”.
The associate professor of Political
Theory in the Department of Govern-
ment, Professor Mayer, discussed the case
at a meeting of Sydney University Stu-
dents’ Christian Movement and the
Fabian Society. It was as clear and
balanced a summing up of what had hap-
pened and what was involved as had
yet been heard from any of the acade-
mics.
Champing at the academic bit, but
restraining himself, sometimes with
visible difficulty, from naming names or
of questioning motives. Professor Mayer
began by pointing out that, as an “As.-
Pro.”, he did not sit on the Professorial
Board, that he did not share many of
Dr Knopfelmacher’s opinions (in Dr K’s
terms he was a “wishy-washy” liberal),
had clashed with him in the past, and that
he had come into the case for a mixed
set of reasons which he proceeded to
explain.
To begin: There was no need to sug-
gest any conspiracy, on the board, “red,
green, yellow, pink or otherwise” —poli-
tical scientists had shown that a small
group which knows what it wants can
quite easily, without any conspiracy,
control a much larger heterogeneous
group in a vote.
The two basic issues at stake were Dr
Knopfelmacher’s right to be judged by
the usual academic standards and the
university’s right to make autonomous
decisions, i.e., the Professorial Board’s
right—even if they were muddle-headed
or unjust. Should there be any attempt
at Government interference in limiting
the right of the Professorial Board to act
independently, he would drop Dr Knop-
felmacher's cause; an attitude which he
had explained to Dr Knopfelmacher
while organising the protest of acade-
mics against the board's decision.
He felt that dropping Dr Knopfelma-
cher would in those circumstances be
the lesser of two evils. On the question
of the board’s right to reject an expert
committee’s recommendation Professor
Mayer argued that it was “stupid and
unsound” to maintain that in principle the
board should not have such a right. First,
because it would lead logically to indi-
vidual professors having the only say
in the selection of staff and second, be-
cause any appointment was an appoint-
ment to the University as a whole, not
just to a subject. Having said that, he
wanted to emphasise that in this particu-
lar case the board had acted “unwisely
and ... I must choose my words care-
fully ... in an ill-judged manner”.
What had been “decisive” for him was
that a political label had been used
at the crucial board meeting—“McCar-
thyite” was changed to “Goldwaterite" in
describing Dr Knopfelmacher. The other
major cause for Professor Mayer’s un-
easiness was that the board had arranged
for the circulation of only one of Dr
Knopfelmacher’s published works and
one which did not form part of his
application. None of the works which
did form part of the application was
circulated to board members at the time.
Any other statement of what had hap-
pened was incorrect, said Professor
Mayer. The one work was the now
oft-mentioned “20th Century” article on
politics at Melbourne University.
Professor Mayer explained that there
was a long and complex background to
the article, there were replies to it, and
a reply again by Dr Knopfelmacher.
None of this background or the replies
was circulated, which “to say the least”
was not a fair academic presentation of
one person’s participation in a contro-
versy. He himself had had copies of
some of Dr Knopfelmacher's other
articles roneoed so that members of the
board could read them before this week’s
meeting.
Dealing with the different reasons
which had been advanced by those who
opposed the appointment, Professor
Mayer said that in the absence of any
authoritative statement from the board
there had been “nine or ten different
reasons” put forward, some of which
contradicted each other. It had been
said that he was “careless, irresponsible,
fanatical” in his general writings. Some
of his popular articles, said Professor
Mayer, had shown these elements. But
was this relevant to his capacity as a
potential senior lecturer in political
philosophy? To the best of his know-
ledge, no political philosophers who
had read Dr Knopfelmacher’s relevant
work in political philosophy, or who
had heard him lecture in it had
accused him of lack of objectivity.
In fact the letter which he had written,
signed by 27 academics from different
universities (and since supported by six
others) supporting Dr Knopfelmacher’s
appointment echoed the publicly stated
views of one of the referees, Professor
Boyce-Gibson, Head of Melbourne Uni-
versity’s Philosophy Department, who
had said “when he puts the gown on he
is responsible and objective”.
Then there was the argument that Dr
Knopfelmacher lacked experience as a
teacher of political philosophy and had
not published sufficiently in the scholarly
journals.
Without naming them Professor Mayer
was referring to some of the views put
forward by Professor A. E. Alexander,
who gave his reasons for rejecting Dr
Knopfelmacher in a letter (“Daily Tele-
graph”, Sydney, 28/4/65) and Professor
May who gave a number of different
reasons in different letters, the longest of
which appeared in “The Canberra Times”
(29/4/65). In this Professor May took to
its extreme a position which he had
suggested in earlier letters; that it was
the board not Dr Knopfelmacher who
was the aggrieved party, and that Dr
Knopfelmacher and his supporters should
have the “good grace” to concede that
Dr Knopfelmacher’s application had
come too soon, lacking sufficient scholar-
ship to back it up, and to accept the
assurances that only academic grounds
had been considered in his rejection.
There was a shift in ground, however,
by Professor May from his first state-
ments immediately after the board met.
At first he had said that he could not
imagine Dr Knopfelmacher giving an
objective lecture on Marx and Engels.
But this argument had now been dropped.
It was not that Dr Knopfelmacher lacked
objectivity, it was his “thinness”—in pub-
lication.
Professor Mayer pointed out that the
applicant’s referees had been philosophers
and distinguished ones, that he had
graduated in both philosophy and psy-
chology, had kept up with philosophy,


" y
m
mam
< f*oDucr Cj
111! OSS A Vi^
■
i
MRi
TAWNY
u ]
NH I PIN! 6fl 0 1
mm
GOOD LUCK, SON
The special companionship of father and
son when the boy is a man and the old
man is still young. The special warmth
of 18 years old award winning Orlando
Vintage Tawny Port.
Or, the slightly younger mellowness of
Orlando Gold Medal Port, the wine
that was awarded the Port Cup and
Highest Award in its class at the 1964
International Viticultural and Wine
Fair at Montpellier in France.
These are wines made to make com-
panionship, made to add more warmth
when you say “Good luck”.
Orlando 1947 Vintage Tawny Port and Orlando
Gold Medal Port are Vintaged by G. Gramp & Sons
Pty. Ltd. in South Australia’s famous Barossa Valley.
infhfl
and had taught seminars and given lec-
tures in political philosophy for a number
of years. Besides it was the very fact
that he had experience in other disciplines
which would make him a welcome addi-
tion to the political philosophy field. As
for publications it was true that the
majority of the relevant ones had not
been in “learned” journals but surely,
asked Professor Mayer, what mattered
primarily was not where something was
published but how good it was. There
were numerous examples of leading
academics who first published their work
in semi-popular magazines. When
examined as to standard then Dr Knop-
felmacher's articles on political philo-
sophy were of a very high standard.
Again watching his words carefully, Pro-
fessor Mayer said he did not want to
raise questions involving other academics
but so far as the sheer number of publi-
cations in his field was concerned "Dr
Knopfelmacher had nothing to fear”.
Professor Mayer said that in other fields
he felt that Dr Knopfelmacher's work
ranged between “very good when it’s
good and disastrous when it's bad—that
is he's hardly ever mediocre"’.
Yes, Dr Knopfelmacher was a contro-
versial man. Professor Mayer liked con-
troversial men in universities although he
thought that Dr Knopfelmacher rather
than “rocking the boat” might drown in
Sydney's “sea of apathy”.
Finally: while reading Dr Knopfel-
macher’s articles Professor Mayer had
felt a different sort of uneasiness. “My
God, I thought, he may just be right.”
Some of the special drama surrounding
the controversy injected itself into Pro-
fessor Mayer’s concluding remarks when
he quoted from another comment in
“20th Century” by Dr Knopfelmacher.
“I myself do what I do because of my
past experiences with totalitarians in
Europe which have burned themselves
indelibly into my nervous system. With-
out these experiences I too would have
conformed for I am not a moral hero,
and I think that nobody can be expected
to be one.”
Professor Mayer said that Dr Knopfel-
macher had a deep feeling of urgency
that “we were sitting on a volcano"’. In
the comfortable environment of Austra-
lian universities he had come up.against
a blank wall. His sense of urgency had
grown. In turn this made people bored
—“Why does he carry on like that?”—
and then irritated —“There must be some-
thing wrong with him'’. But it was just
possible that he was right even if he,
Professor Mayer, disagreed. In any
case this was not the issue. Almost cer-
tainly, said Professor Mayer, if Dr Knop-
felmacher came to Sydney he would clash
with him and probably within two years
be a leading figure in an “anti-Knopfel-
macher group”. That was one of the
reasons he supported him.


HOMOSEXUALITY
Australia’s “ Greatest Menace”?
By GORDON HAWKINS
The wholesale proscription of homo-
sexual behavior is a relatively
recent development. Australian
law on the subject derives directly from
English law, in particular the Criminal
Law Amendment Act of 1885. Although
sodomy and public indecency were
offences before then, from 1885 onwards
all sexual acts between male persons,
regardless of whether committed in
public or private or between consenting
adults, became criminal offences. There
is an apocryphal story that the original
clause covered women as well as men
but was amended because Queen Victoria
objected that female homosexuality was
impossible; and no one felt inclined to
explain it to her. The story illustrates
admirably the prudery, obscurantism
and ignorance which still surround the
subject today in many English-speaking
countries.
Here in Australia the problem is rarely
publicly discussed. Recently a Sydney
television station which intended to show
two British television documentaries
about homosexuality was prevented by
the Censor from doing so. Novels, like
James Baldwin’s “Another Country”,
which deal explicitly with homo-
sexual relationships are banned.
Newspapers and periodicals
fight shy of the subject. Back
in 1953, after a number of prominent
people had been charged with offensive
behavior, the NSW Minister for Justice
(then Mr R. R. Downing) established a .
special committee to investigate the prob-
lem of homosexuality. But although it
was rumored that a report was submitted
to the present Minister. Mr J. Mannix,
five years later in 1963, unlike the Eng-
lish Wolfenden Report it was never pub-
lished.
One of the relatively rare public pro-
nouncements on the topic was C. J.
Delaney’s statement, some years ago,
that “Homosexuality is the greatest
menace facing Australia”. At the time
he was NSW Commissioner of Police,
and in the post-war years his annual
reports regularly carried warnings on the
subject of the increasing incidence of
homosexual offences. The following
passage from his 1955 report is typical:
“Offences by sexual perverts con-
tinue to give grave concern. This type
of offence must be regarded most
seriously from the point of view of
public morality, and also having in
view the possible serious consequences
to younger members of. the com-
munity. The very nature of some
practices and the clandestine manner
in which they are carried out makes
the subject a difficult one to deal
with; however, police are active in
endeavouring as far as possible to
suppress such offences.”
But the role of Cassandra is a coveted
one, not lightly relinquished. The cham-
pions' of other well-established menaces
(e.g., alcohol, gambling, communism,
juvenile delinquency and, for that matter,
straight sexual promiscuity) were un-
impressed. Police Department reports
from other States remained silent on the
matter. Scepticism, or more probably
apathy, triumphed. And recently even
in the NSW reports references to the
subject have grown briefer and more
matter of fact. Last year a laconic
statement to the effect that places where
homosexuals are known to congregate
are supervised and “complaints are
promptly investigated” appeared.
As a matter of fact, despite the “mate-
ship” cult and the widespread segregation
of the sexes, both in public and private,
there is no evidence that the proportion
rr-/ j ,i , j ,» , j «>
The love that dares not breathe its name?
of active homosexuals in the Australian
population differs significantly from that
revealed by surveys carried out in other
countries. In so far as the number of
cases coming under police notice may
be taken as an index, there is no cause
for alarm. The criminal statistics have
revealed no marked variations from year
to year when the figures are considered in
relation to population. No significant
trends of any kind are discernible.
It will be said, of course, that the
criminal statistics give no reliable indica-
tion of the real extent of homosexual
practice. But this, although undoubtedly
true, is not peculiar to Australia. One
American study estimates that in the
US six million homosexual acts take
place every year for each 20 convictions.
Alfred Kinsey calculated that if all
American males who exhibit homosexual
behavior at some time in life were to
be treated according to the law, a
majority of the male public would be in
prison and there would not be enough
free persons to staff the institutions
necessary to hold them. Kinsey’s
estimates have been criticised as exag-
gerated, but there is universal agreement
that there is an astronomical disparity
between the number of acts that occur
and those detected and prosecuted,
In the circumstances it may seem
curious that the police are rarely, if ever,
criticised for the ineffectiveness of law
enforcement in this area. Indeed the
reverse is true. They are commonly c0n-
,,.,: „■ . c
demned not for inefficiency but for
excessive zeal. In the USA, the UK and
Australia thev are constantly charged
with indulging in relentless persecution
of homosexuals. In the US the police
have been accused of “harassment,
entrapment and brutality” toward homo-
sexuals. In the UK the Wolfenden re-
port implied that the recorded post-war
increase in homosexual offences was
largely due to increased police activity,
A prominent member of the House of
Lords was widely quoted as asking why
the police couldn’t “forget their obsession
with buggers and catch a few burglars
f or a change”. And in Australia the
police are not infrequently attacked for
their use of plainclothes officers as
decoys who, it is alleged, act as agents
provocateurs to entrap homosexuals.
This allegation, incidentally,
is consistently denied by the
police here. The present NSW
Police Commissioner, Mr Nor-
man Allan, has said: “Nothing is done
by our plainclothes police that could
remotely resemble an inducement to a
person to commit an offence”. It may
be said, of course, .that what con-
stitutes inducement or provocation in this
context is not a simple objective matter,
Elsewhere the employment of such
tactics is sometimes candidly defended
on the ground that without the use of
some such methods the law would be
largely unenforceable. Indeed even with
their use it remains, as has been noted,
largely unenforced,
Inevitably the fact that only a
negligible number and an arbitrary selec-
tion of offences are detected and prose-
cuted gives rise to the suggestion that
this brings the criminal law into con-
tempt. Thus Dr Donald West, in his
excellent Pelican book “Homosexuality”
(1960), says: “The present method of
selecting victims for prosecution is so
obviously unjust as to bring the processes
of law into disrepute.” Because of such
considerations as these it is sometimes
argued that unenforceable prohibitions
of this character should be repealed,
This argument would be more impressive


HELP
I M ni
all the year round
were it not for the probability that only
a small percentage of many other crimes
are detected. The fact that only a small
proportion of homosexual acts committed
is brought to the knowledge of the police
is not in itself an adequate reason for
making the acts lawful; any more than
it is in the case of incest, for example.
This is not to say, however, that there
are no grounds for doubt about the
propriety of using the law to deal with
some kinds of homosexual behavior. And
in other countries there have in recent
years been significant changes in the
climate of opinion. In the 'UK many
people have been influenced by the
Wolfenden Committee recommendation
that sexual relations of a homosexual
nature between consenting adults should
be no longer subject to law providing
they take place in private. Perhaps even
more influential in changing attitudes
have been the reports prepared by both
the Church of England and the Roman
Catholic Church in England when
requested to give evidence before the
Wolfenden Committee. The Church of
England Moral Welfare Council’s re-
port, “Sexual Offenders and Social
Punishment” (1956), and the report of
the Roman Catholic
Committee, published in
“The Dublin Review”
(1956), both contain
recommendations virtually identical with
those subsequently adopted in the Wolf-
enden report. More recently a group of
Quakers have published a pamphlet en-
titled “Towards a Quaker View of Sex”
(1963), which suggests that society
“should no more deplore homosexuality
than left-handedness”.
In the US matters have gone even
further. Not only does the Model Penal
Code of the American Law Institute
contain recommendations similar to those
of the Wolfenden Committee, but Illinois
in 1961 redrafted its penal code so as
not to penalise any sexual behavior
between consenting adults not involving
force, the corruption of youth or public
indecency. Other States, including New
York and California, are considering
similar penal code revisions. At the
same time there is much greater freedom
of discussion, and magazines for homo-
sexuals that campaign fon. greater
tolerance are sold openly on the news-
stands. Not long ago “Life” magazine
ran a lengthy, profusely illustrated fea-
ture on “Homosexuality in America”.
Indeed one US journalist commented
recently that “The love that dare not
breathe its name is in danger of be-
coming the neurosis that doesn’t know
when to shut up.”
In the circumstances it is interesting
to enquire why there has been no parallel
movement towards the liberalisation of
the law and no marked change in public
attitudes here in Australia. Partly, no
doubt, this is due to the absence of free
public discussion which would have
effectively disposed of a number of per-
sistent myths. One such delusion is re-
flected in the passage about “the possible
serious consequences to younger mem-
bers of the community” which occurs in
the Police Commissioner’s report cited
above. The truth is that homosexuals
are no more likely to attack, assault,
molest or seduce children than hetero-
sexuals. Paedophiles or infantophiles
are by no means exclusively or even
predominantly homosexual. In so far as
Or the neurosis that doesn't know when to shut up?
it is the function of the criminal law to
protect the young and immature and
provide safeguards against their exploita-
tion and corruption, there is no reason
to regard homosexuals as being signifi-
cantly different from heterosexuals or
constituting a particular menace to the
young.
Another common fear is that legal
tolerance would encourage proselytism
on the part of homosexuals and ultimately
result in a great increase in homosexual
practices. The truth is that there is no
evidence that this occurs in those Con-
tinental countries (the great majority)
where the laws are derived from the
Code Napoleon and sexual acts between
consenting adult males in private are not
illegal. Indeed it is in the countries which
have the strictest laws against it (USA,
UK and Germany) that one meets the
most flamboyant propaganda for the
homosexual way of life. Yet even in
these countries it is only a very small
minority of homosexuals who indulge in
this kind of activity. The vast majority
regard their homosexuality as an afflic-
tion and wish they were not homo-
sexual.
Equally chimerical is the belief that
most homosexuals are depraved, degener-
ate types who are so satiated with normal
sex that they have to seek new thrills by
indulging in forbidden perversions. This
is so far from being generally true as to
be ludicrous. Actually there is no such
thing as a characteristic homosexual type
any more than there is a characteristic
heterosexual type either in respect of
physique or temperament. Not that
bisexual gourmandism never occurs. But
in so far as any specific trait is found
with particular frequency amongst homo-
sexuals, it is pronounced sense of guilt
or shame rather than sexual epicureanism.
Apart from this the principal distinguish-
ing feature is simply that they prefer
their own to the opposite sex.
Nevertheless it seems probable that
in Australia more powerful than any of
the ideas mentioned so far is the ancient
stereotype of the homosexual as an effete
pansy type with a mincing gait, feminine
mannerisms and a lisping voice; in short,
the antithesis of natural manliness. That
such affectedly effeminate individuals
exist is undeniable, although they are a
minority. Yet because they deliberately
attract undue attention it is understand-
able that they come to be regarded as
typical. Nor is it altogether surprising
that they meet with hos-
tility. As Donald Horne
remarks in “The Lucky
Country” (1964):
“There is a sociably homosexual side to
Australian male life (of a ‘butch’ kind)
that can involve prolonged displays of
toughness in male company. Men stand
around bars asserting their masculinity
with such intens ty that you half expect
them to unzip their flies.”
It requires no deep psychological in-
sight to guess that this obsessive concern
with masculinity and the hatred and con-
tempt with which homosexuals are often
regarded both derive from difficulties
involved in the repression of homosexual
feelings which are normally present in
all human beings. “An all-male atmo-
sphere,” says Donald West, “may have
the effect of instilling a sense of hyper-
masculinity and a contempt for women’s
ways that seriously interferes with the
development of relations with girls.” It
is widely recognised that this kind of
hindrance to relations with the opposite
sex sometimes produces the sporty “man’s
man” (in more senses than one). But it
can also lead to an intolerance of, and
deep aversion towards, sexual deviation
which arises from personal insecurity in
this connection.
Such considerations as this suggest that
in this country any move towards the
legalisation of acts of homosexuality be-
tween consenting male adults in private
would be likely to encounter stubborn
resistance, no less formidable for being
essentially irrational.


MMMU
. i: '
€sf:n
m
O’
HP
'V.::.
::
Becoming a 5.3© p.m. paperwork packhorse? .«.
Cali 3f¥l Business Communications Centre
It’s time to stop packing paperwork into your
briefcase each night!
In fact, it’s time to talk to a 3M Business
Communications Consultant!
Talk paperwork traffic jams. Copying bottle-
necks. Correspondence. Financial records.
Internal forms. Reports. Memos. Un-
necessary typing and clerical effort. Overhead
costs.
Then he assesses how and where 3M’s Systems
and Copying Products can save typing and
clerical effort, and speed the paperwork flow
throughout your organisation.
He’ll invite you to the Centre. To see 3M’s
ideas in action. Machines and papers. Instant
electric statements. Short note replies.
But why -wait for an invitation when a ’phone
call will end your packhorse days?
P.S. You might as well buy yourself a smaller
briefcase. You’ll have nothing to put in that
big one!
BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS CENTRE
MINNESOTA miNING ANU MANUFACTURING [AUSTRALIA] PTY. LTD.
Sydney 43-0455 • Melbourne 61-3841 • Adelaide 51-5971
Brisbane 5-4131 • Perth 28-4651 • Hobart 3-3104
Canberra 4-0791 • Auckland 295-109. 3m 2 /m 2 /65c
CumPANY


Wholesome or Prissy?
No kicks , no broken bottles , no lynchings
By HARRY WHITMORE
Why has Australian film censorship
never attracted that storm of
criticism so often directed at
Australian book censorship? It may be
that film censorship has been more in-
telligently carried out. This is doubtful.
It could be argued that a film is not so
completely destroyed by censorship. But
some films have been completely ruined.
There is the purely commercial reason
that the importers, film companies, tele-
vision companies, and so on, are not
prepared to bite the hand that feeds
them. (The hand in this case belongs to
the Commonwealth Customs Depart-
ment.) Probably the major reason is that
people do not feel so directly affected by
film censorship.
As in the case of imported books, the
power of the Commonwealth authorities
to censor films is derived from the
Customs Act. The Customs (Cinemato-
graph Films) Regulations provide for
establishment of a Censorship Board, a
Chief Censor, and an Appeal Censor.
The Board comprises seven members,
four men and three women.
The Film Censorship Board has its
headquarters in Sydney. Importers are
required to submit all films for screening
before the Board, or one of its members,
together with a synopsis of the story,
and, if it is a foreign language film, a
translation fee. Screening rooms are
provided in the headquarters building,
and at other places in the vicinity. If the
Board finds it to be necessary, cuts are
made by its staff before the film is re-
turned for exhibition. In some cases the
Board will reject a film outright, but
indicate that it will be prepared to re-
assess a reconstruction of the film. In
the year 1962-63, 265 feature films were
classified as being suitable for general
exhibition, and 211 as being unsuitable
for children. Of the latter number, 27
were passed subject to the condition that
advertising should emphasise that they
were suitable only for adults. Cuts were
made from 113 films and six were re-
jected outright. Four appeals were
lodged and all were unsuccessful.
The Board itself quite obviously be-
lieves that it is very liberal minded.
Whether it is as liberal or even as sen-
sible as it claims is open to doubt. On
many occasions the Board has empha-
sised its refusal to accept scenes of vio-
lence, which it considers to be excessive
in extent and detail. Many people will,
no doubt, applaud this approach. In
practice it seems to work out that shoot-
ings, stabbings, rapes and beatings are
permitted to be shown, while the results
of such activities are cut, because they
might offend some -sensibilities, and par-
ticularly the sensibilities of children.
Surely a much worse effect is created
by showing violence divorced . from its
unpleasant consequences. This is a prissy
form of censorship which may indeed
have deleterious effect on immature
minds. Censorship of violence has to
be all or nothing.
The real attitude of the Board is pre-
haps best shown by an official release
entitled, “Film Censorship in Australia”.
The Board states that, in judging a film,
it keeps three main issues in mind:
First: Is it likely to impair moral
standards of the viewers by extenuating
vice or crime, or by depreciating social
values.
Secondly: Is it likely to be offensive to
a normal audience of reasonably-minded
citizens. A normal audience, the Board
considers, would not welcome as enter-
tainment harrowing death or torture
scenes, -gruesome hospital and accident
scenes, unnecessary brutality, cruelty to
children or animals, indecency, vulgarity,
and so on.
Thirdly: What will be the effect of the
film on children.
“Censors,” the release explains, “will
not allow the use of bottles as weapons,
low blows, torture scenes, kicks in fights,
blows at women and children, detailed
scenes of execution and lynchings, dis-
play and description of particular types
of passion, shots of battered faces or
bodies of fight victims, injured animals.
We do not like too many ‘bloodys’, ‘bas-
tards’, ‘sluts’, ‘bitches’, ‘whores’, ‘My
Gods’, etc. In crime films the moral that
crime does not pay must be clearly
shown.”
In other words, as in the case of book
censors, the Board is prepared to deny
reality, and prevent children from seeing
or hearing expressions which they do
hear in the streets, and from hearing
words which are written on the walls
of most public lavatories —including
those in schools. The Board’s yearning
for children’s picture book films is shown
by the following passage: “Each year
films are becoming more and more
mature in theme. They deal with sub-
jects which by their very nature are
designed to shock, such as rape, nym-
phomania, homosexuality, prostitution,
abortion, drug addiction, delinquency,
etc. Themes dealing with the sordid
side of life are the basis of an ever-in-
creasing proportion of films. Fewer and
fewer deal with the more wholesome and
happier subjects.”
Quite clearly the Board sees the film
as merely an “entertainment” and it is
not one whit perturbed that its activities
are deliberately designed to reduce the
impact of films which are produced and
directed as social comment. The most
offensive feature of the Board's self-
satisfied reports is the implication that
its censors are incorruptible, and are
engaged in saving Australian society
rPHIS article is from a forth-
coming book by Harry Whit-
more on civil liberties in Australia.
Since it was written, the Depart-
ment of Customs has introduced a
new policy of showing selected
banned scenes to “mature journal-
istsMr Whitmore apparently
was not mature enough to be
invited.


%
%
(t
9
A
O
Cl
O
s*!
*
tft
%
vs
«p
.. .
■;
' •'
:
Si*
■ ; ; : ,:
*****
i -}-y fffiMm
mm
f
gg ini
m
m
I
. s<-., 5 <-.,
ir
4 m
. M
jsm
y
. /
Wifi
K#vm
wEm>
mm
mm: «n
V . :
• : .^’
■ •• . ;
It fM'Wwwkm
the
forward
line
featuring a forward pitch that follows the
natural concave shape of your shoulders and
contours of your chest. THE GREATEST SUIT
EVER with so many outstanding features. More hand
stitching more fine detailing—silky Bemberg linings
and trouser creases that are SI-RO-SET. You find all
these fine features in a Keith Courtenay Ambassador
he Finest Suit in Australia.
fustfkCw rfe4t&f
Flinders Lane, Melbourne 9
A Keith Courtenay keeps its crisp new look longer than any other suit
. SEEN AND BOUGHT
AT BETTER STORES
EVERYWHERE
For your nearest write:
from moral debasement. As in the case
of books it can be argued that films do
not corrupt at all. But if they do, why
are the censors not corrupted?
npHE Board’s work is not fully examin-
able by the Australian public for the
simple reason that no publicity is given
to banned films. The Board is not pre-
pared to discuss the cuts that it has
made. Nor for that matter are the dis-
tributors. It is believed that Ingmar
Bergman’s “The Silence’ ? was refused
registration and a cut version has
recently been shown. People who saw
such films as “Tom Jones” and “La
Dolce Vita” in England, know that cuts
were made before exhibition in Austra-
lia. The version of “Cleopatra” now on
show in Australia is a watered-down ver-
sion. The nature of the cuts is fairly
well indicated by the Board’s official
release. Violence, as we have seen, is
permitted, but the battered faces or
bodies must not be shown. Some violent
language may be permitted in context,
but excessive use of such language is
deemed to corrupt. Many horror films
are banned (Terence Fisher’s Hammer
Film version of “Dracula”, highly
praised by many critics, was banned
entirely). Like most censors, the Board
sometimes seemed obsessed with the idea
that frank portrayal of sexual love will
also' corrupt —this is termed indecency.
The naked human body is apparently the
most corrupting influence of all. The
occasional brief glimpse of a breast may
be permitted, but anything beyond that
is taboo. Body hair is anathema, and
any portrayal of the genitals is clearly
obscene. These restrictions do not
necessarily apply to “savages”.
Despite the standards prescribed in the
regulations and self-created standards of
the Board, it is obvious that the censors
are applying a subjective test. The ques-
tion that they ask themselves is: Do we
like it? If they do not, the film is
banned or cut. But are these men and
women competent to judge for all Aus-
tralians? Apparently they have no
grounding in the cinema or the arts.
They are not even required to have
minimal educational requirements. The
Government can appoint whomever it
wishes. Comments are from time to
time made by distributors and cinema
operators that the Board is doing an
excellent job in the circumstances. This
all depends on what is meant by “an
excellent job". Suspicion is aroused by
the regular comment in the Board’s
reports that “it has appreciated the co-
operation and courtesy it has received in
all sections of the motion picture in-
dustry”. The system no doubt works
perfectly in the commercial interests of
the distributors, and in the interests of
the Board’s wish to be free of publicity
and controversy. It is a cosy arrange-


Introducing: Benson & Hedges
Special Smoking Mixture
... a new classic among the
world’s great pipe tobaccos.
Modestly priced at 7/6 a tin,
it is the right tobacco
when only the best will do.
And isn’t that all the time?
-r;
iMI
:
m
w
8H768.2.65
ment. No one has any thought for the
fact that Australians are denied the op-
portunity of seeing many fine films
shown freely overseas, or are shown
films that are bowdlerised by cuts in
mid-scene and mid-sentence.
There is a marked contrast between
Australia and the United States on the
question of judicial control of the cen-
sors. The difference results primarily
from the presence of a guarantee of
freedom of expression in the First
Amendment to the American Constitu-
tion. The Supreme Court has recognised
that “motion pictures are a significant
medium for the communication of
ideas”, and within the protection of the
guarantee. Unbridled censorship will
not be permitted. [Burstyn v. Wilson
(1952) 343 United States 495.] The cen-
sors are thus always aware that they may
be challenged in the courts. This alone
is a strong safeguard. Many successful
cases have been brought.
The powers conferred on the Austra-
lian Censorship Board are expressed in
broad subjective terms. Legal challenge
is theoretically possible, but the chances
of success are quite remote. Moreover,
it is only the importers who could be in
a position to bring such an action. They
have no interest in so doing. The private
citizen's rights to benefit from freedom
of expression cannot be asserted at all.
Our film censors have nothing to fear
by way of challenge in the courts.
Again theoretically, the Board is sub-
ject to Ministerial control. In practice
this amounts to nothing. The Minister
will be happy if he is free of controversy.
It is a safe bet that he knows little, if
anything, of the day-to-day operations
of the Board. The Board is then a law
unto itself. It works in secrecy. A
basic civil right is at the mercy of an
administrative body with no responsi-
bility to anyone.
It is certainly difficult to suggest a
practical alternative. No Australian
Government would accept a proposal
that there be no censorship for adult
films. Some improvements are clearly
possible. Minimum educational require-
ments should be prescribed for Board
members. It is highly desirable that some
members, at least, should have had some
artistic background. The Board should
be required to make public its exclusions
and cuts, and give reasons for them. As
in other areas, the giving of reasoned
opinions would compel some clarity of
thought. Above all, it would make
feasible some degree of judicial control.
At the very least, the Board's report to
the Minister should give details of the
films cut and rejected. The present prac-
tice of stating that cuts were made be-
cause of “excessive violence” or because
“incidents or dialogue were indecent”
gives no indication of what the Board
is doing.


AROUND MELBOURNE
“Tea Without Dad—a Family Sad”
A temporary measure in 1916
At last Mr P. D. Phillips, QC, has
given the first recommendations
from his liquor inquiry and to thirsty
Victorians they sound like a drinker’s
nirvana—lo p.m. closing, drink at
theatres until 11 p.m., drink at res-
taurants until 11.30 p.m., drink at
night clubs until 3 a.m. But do not
get carried away. There is a hard
struggle ahead. Already the Women’s
Christian Temperance Union has a
fine window display. There is a touch-
ing poster with an empty place at
the head of the dinner table with the
message: Tea Without Dad A
Family Sad. Then there is another
poster which is a little more punchy.
It says: The Social Effects Of Alcohol
. . . inefficiency, accidents, loss of
character, divorce, TB, insanity,
crime, death.
As a gentleman now approaching
middle-age, who has never known
anything else but 6 o’clock closing,
it seemed important this week to find
out how it all came about, so I took
down the 1915-16 files of “The
Argus”. In 1915 our pubs opened at
6 a.m. and stayed open until 11.30
p.m. By July the pages of “The
Argus” were filled with column after
column of casualties from Gallipoli.
Indeed it was felt that if only there
were shorter drinking hours, this
would help us to beat the Kaiser, so
on July 6 we introduced the new
hours 9 a.m. to 9.30 p.m.
The only real howl came from
seven hotels at Victoria Market
' which Tiad a special 3 a.m. opening
licence. But the new regulations
were hardly noticed. July 6 was the
opening of recruiting week and the
main story was about the official
opening by the Premier, Sir Alexan-
der Peacock, at the Mechanics Insti-
tute and it was headed “Clergyman
Strikes Interjector”. Supporting the
Premier, the Rev. F. Lynch, MA, said:
“If some of the interjectors were not
damned cowards they would be fight-
ing (three cheers from audience). I
am too old to fight in Gallipoli but
by gum I sometimes fight here.”
A year went by and the consump-
tion of beer alone rose 22.9 per cent,
despite the earlier closing hours.
Things were going very badly indeed
in France, the Kaiser remained un-
defeated so a national executive for
6 o’clock closing was formed. A
massive campaign was kicked off by
the Council of Churches with a mani-
festo which was to be announced in
all churches on July 9, 1916. It
read: “We have beaten ‘interests’ be-
fore and we will do it again. It is
a task which, when it is accomplished,
will bring Australia, in our judgment,
a long march nearer the dawn of the
true and beautiful, we believe it will
have the effect not merely of filling
the country with a happy, prosperous
yeomanry, but it will do more than
that, it will free the cities from the
nightmares of unemployment, sweat-
ing and slums. Then we shall have
a Commonwealth that its children can
rejoice in, and one that the Empire,
to the ends of the earth, can be proud
of.”
The secretary of the 6 p.m. move-
ment was a Mr Samuel Mauger, and
judging from “The Argus” files the
man was indefatigable. Nightly he
held mass meetings in all the suburban
halls, and in the country, and the
publicity was immense. His mass
meeting in the Melbourne Town Hall
on July 25 filled the place to capacity
and the overflow completely filled the
Temperance Hall in Russell Street.
Said he: “Over £300,000 has been
spent on training and equipping men
who have been dismissed before
leaving Australia. A thousand men
were dismissed from one camp in one
day, and they must blush to see men
in the King's uniform rolling and
reeling about!”
Mr Mauger demanded a liquor
referendum once and for all. Oh,
there was opposition. The anti-
-6 o’clock forces gathered a petition
of 100,000 signatures, one sheet
several miles long was rolled into the
Legislative Assembly in the shape of a
barrel. “The Argus” printed thunder-
ous leader after thunderous leader,
pointing out particularly the absurdity
of this strange hour 6 o'clock. “The
agitators seem to have fixed upon it
everywhere because it’s the hour when
many thousands of men leave ware-
house and shop.” This, of course,
was true. At one mass meeting the
Rev. E. C. Crotty said: “Muzzle the
liquor dog at the most dangerous hour
of the day for the sheep.”
The campaign gathered pace, and
undoubtedly it reached its climax
with the famous “Publicans Are Can-
nibals” address at the Methodist Mis-
sion, Gipps Street, Collingwood, on
September 10, 1916, when the Rev.
Henry Worrall said: “Of all the canni-
bal countries in the world none has
a greater record than Fiji where on
one occasion a chief told me that he
had made a meal off part of 900
human bodies. But all this fades into
insignificance when we come to con-
sider cannibalism of modern days,
especially in connection with the evils
attendant upon indulgence in strong
drink. There is no class in the com-
munity that suffers more from the evil
than the drink sellers themselves. The
navvies who indulge in outbursts of
intoxication do not perish from heart
failure or liver complaint in propor-
tion to their numbers as do sellers of
liquor. They are bloated, bleary-
eyed publicans who are tempted by
their own calling and fall victims to
it. It is a hellish traffic.”
There were protests from bleary
publicans, a lucid leader from “The
Argus” saying publicans were not
cannibals, but by now all was set.
The battle of the Somme was at its
peak. Sir Alexander Peacock aban-
doned his plans for a referendum and
put through the 6 o’clock closing bill.
It was just a temporary measure, he
said.
It was passed at the second reading
42 to 8, and came into effect on
October 25, 1916. That was the week
of the great conscription referendum
“Cute Yes An Yharten The Allies,
Cute No And Encourage Germany”.
The hotels were closed by law on the
Saturday for the vote. So for the first
time hotel bars in Victoria were closed
from 6 p.m. on the Friday to 9 a.m.
on the Monday morning. According
to “Melbourne Punch” it was the
driest weekend Victoria had ever
known.


mm m
#
mm
am
f:
gss
saassKSSS
m
“Thirty four’s a big group to handle . . . but Pan Am
took us around the world without a hitch in service,
luggage or connections!”
—says Mr. Edward Barton, Pharmacist, of Sydney
“There’s no doubt about it . . . Pan
Am did a great deal to make our
study tour a success. Group travel
can often be an exhausting business,
but Pan Am’s service really kept
things running smoothly for all of
us. Their in-flight service was ex-
cellent,' as we’d expected. What
really impressed us was the effici-
ency and helpfulness of their airport
personnel everywhere. They made
sure there were no hitches of any
kind. With Pan Am we knew we
were getting the best possible
service.”
Whether it’s individual flights, or
group tours, you’ll find splendid ser-
vice is the. hallmark of Pan Am.
Things like superb cuisine by
Maxim’s . of Paris, speedy connec-
tions and, most important, friendly,
courteous treatment in flight and on
the ground. So call your Pan Am
Travel Agent, or Pan Am. You’ll
have a good feeling knowing you’ve
chosen the very best.
First on the Pacific . ..
First on the Atlantic ... |
First in Latin America . . .
First ’Round the World . . .
SR
You’re better off with Pan Am-
world’s most experienced airline
Sydney: Berger House, 82 Elizabeth Street. 28-2621 • Melbourne: Southern Cross Hotel, 133 Exhibition Street. 63-9077
PA4678


The
Isle of Skye
Liqueur
Drambuie
mm
The liqueur
you prefer
to be offered
7423
D 6.102
The Spy’s Special
4.30 from Istanbul
By DAVID MCNICOLL
L ' DIRECT ORIENT i _
lISTAMBUL SOFIA BEOGRAD 1
/VENEZIA MILANO LAUSANNE PARIS
The Direct-Orient Express pulls out
of Istanbul station at 4.30 in the
afternoon. For the Graham
Greene-James Bond spy train fan, it is
rather a disappointing start. The Turk-
ish Customs people are polite, the porters
are not greedy, the platform is practically
deserted. There are no beautiful
women. But there, on the side of your
wagon lit, is the magic legend: “Direct-
Orient Express. Istanbul-Sofia-Belgrade-
Venice-Milan-Lausanne-Paris.” Enough
to set your pulses pounding slightly and
make you wonder if the bulge under
that chap’s arm is an uncomfortable
singlet or a snub-nosed automatic.
Travelling the Direct-Orient takes
some organisation. Apart from your
tickets, which must be confirmed through
Paris, you require visas and entrance-
exit cards for Bulgaria and Yugoslavia.
You also require food. Fortunately I
found this out in time when the incom-
parable Hilmi, concierge at the Divan
heteu Istanbul, asked me if 1 had
ordered my hamper. Then 1 discovered
that no dining-car would join the train
for 36 hours. So Hilmi set about
arranging a hamper, assisted by the
hotel chef and Hilmi's own wife. The
hamper eventually took up almost as
much room in my compartment as a
suitcase. It contained: 12 bread rolls,
1 Edam cheese, 1 large cooked fowl,
6 hard-boiled eggs, 6 bananas, 6 oranges,
6 apples, 1 salami, 2 bottles white wine,
1 bottle cognac, 12 bottles mineral water,
2 glasses, plate, knife, fork, bottle-
opener/corkscrew. I did not starve.
The Direct-Orient Express changes its
personality a dozen times on the iron
road to Paris. It is broken up, shunted,
joined, put on sidings; it becomes a
suburban commuter with thousands of
office workers scrambling aboard to go a
few miles to their homes; it takes on
cargoes of peasants, belongings in
bundles, in far rural areas and deposits
them in the bright lights of Sofia and
Belgrade.
Only the Istanbul carriage is con-
stant. It is your home for nearly three
days, warm, comfortable. At night the
conductor advises you to lock yourself
in. By day you receive many an odd
look through the window. But by and
large, it is pleasant. You have three
different conductors on your trip, and
each night your bed has gleaming, fresh
sheets and pillows. The coal fire at the
end of the compartment is kept stoked
and your water is generally hot. The
compartment itself, in fact, gets too
hot, and I found myself opening the
window for hours at a time—all right
when a diesel is pulling, not so pleasant
when the steam engines are attached.
The Balkan countryside was starting
to burgeon with early spring, A few
late patches of snow were melting, storks
by the hundred fed in the sopping fields,
the vineyards were being tilled, the
peasant women were trooping across the
paddocks, mattocks over shoulders. At
the railway sidings, however, were the
visible signs of agricultural revolution.
Near Sofia I saw a goods train with 20
tractors and ten harvesters. In some of
the country towns I saw tractors in the
main squares with crowds of farmers
around them being given demonstrations.
The trip is a busy one for your pass-
port. It is pounded by the Turks, the
Bulgars, the Yugos, and the Italians.
The first night I went to bed about 9 p.m.
and slept peacefully until Svilengrad,
which we reached at 4.30 a.m. Then
came the start of the Graham Greene-
James Bond element. A thunderous
knock on the door. Fumble for the
light, finally get it on. Unlatch the door,
and say, “Come in”. And there are two
massive Bulgarians in uniforms, un-
smiling. “Passaport,” they say. Close
examination, some discussion between
them, a searching look at me, then at the
picture of me in the passport. Finally,
a stamp in the passport, and handed
back with a “Merci”.
Next morning, through the Bulgarian
countryside. Many stops, carriages
being added, peasants joining the train,
some in caracul caps, some with scarves
round heads. It was very noticeable,
though, that the nearer we got to Sofia
the more sophisticated became the
apparel.
As far as I could see my fellow pas-
sengers in the wagon lit were diploma-
tic couriers. The Italians on one side,


kind of ntontl
did you have?
US
1 r mm
4 'i j ■
:■'■
Ipsll§|
%: ' Q
•\.' -.i-:
■ «.-i l
mmm
::
How did it compare with your targets ... with the same
month last year... which product lines are up... down..?
We can tell you—fast!
No matter what kind of business
you’re in there's a good chance
you’re spending more time than
necessary in analysing your market-
ing activity. It's vital to find better
methods to keep sales effort tuned
to peak efficiency—to spot trouble
and eliminate it before it's a problem.
Unfortunately, an accurate “crystal
ball" hasn’t yet been invented.
The next best thing is an NCR Data
Processing Centre. Here an NCR
computer handles, at electronic
speed, the mass of figures relating
to your business and produces the
prompt management reports you
need.
Yet you save more than time. This
NCR service considerably shrinks the
cost of processing. And the only
additional equipment needed to
enjoy this service is the attachment of
a punched paper tape recorder or
card punch to any NCR business
machine, or the installation of the
new NCR Optical Font.
If prompt financial reports and mer-
chandise control are a matter of
concern, start sending your paper
work out to NCR. They’ll do it fast
. . . and inexpensively.
For full details, call your local NCR
office, or write to NCR, 14-16 York
Street, Sydney.
SYDNEY
211-2188
TOWNSVILLE
3276
PERTH
21-9727
MELBOURNE
63-0271
HOBART
3-3887
NEWCASTLE
2-4837
CANBERRA
4-0327
BRISBANE
2-0631
ADELAIDE
51-5821
WflGGft
4345
THE NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO. PTY. LTD


the French and British on the other.
Their compartments were so stacked with
mail bags and satchels that I marvelled
they had room to turn. They never
went further from their compartment
than the lavatory at the end of the car.
Never to the dining-car when it was
eventually joined to the Express after
Belgrade. They ate in their little cubicles,
their rations replenished by fellow
countrymen waiting at the main stations.
As the names on the stations became
more pronounceable, so the comfort of
the journey improved. We put behind
us Crveni Krst and Ljubljana and on
waking after the second night in the
train I raised the blind to find the sun
was shining and the Express was roaring
along the coast to Trieste.
The Triestinos looked positively hilari-
ous after the sober Sofians. There were
fruit and cordial vendors by the train,
English papers available in- the book-
stalls, holiday-makers and tourists joining
the train. The variety of food in the
dining-car took a turn for the better.
The diplomatic couriers continued to
munch their sandwiches and stare gloom-
ily out the windows.
After Trieste, the Direct-Orient be-
comes just another Continental train. At
Venice it breaks up to take on more
comfortable carriages, and by Milan
only our carriage—by now looking dusty,
battered and very Balkan —remained of
the rolling stock which had set off from
Istanbul.
Although the “sinister-spy” element of
James Bond’s railways world ends at
Italy, another facet of his activities takes
over at that point. Suddenly the train
seems full of shapely girls. The grim,
thick woollen stockings and common-
sense shoes disappear, and all around are
sheer legs and delicious uplift. You
relax, safe from Goldfinger and Scara-
manga and start surveying Pussy Galore
and Honeychile Rider.
The Australian on
Main St, Asia
The High Commissioner in the Austin Princess
By ANTHONY BROWN
The Australian image in Asia is like
the advertisement for the new
Holden—“ All New and More
Distinguished Than Ever” and this is the
imagery being purveyed from the Aus-
tralian High Commissions and Embas-
sies: a friendly, sporty, opulent, relaxed
nation which is clean of teeth and clear
of eye and whose working people have
so emancipated that Australia is ap-
proaching the 34-hour week. Posters in
Vientiane, Saigon, Singapore represent
the country as being a demi-paradise set
in a troubled hemisphere—blush-red
apples, limitless pastures, dustless indus-
tries, chubby sheep, monumental civil
engineering achievements: a spanking,
all-paid-up continent populated by a
healthy, blessed, sun-kissed race. This
is how the Asian sees Australia—at least
those Asians who have only the posters
by which to adjudge the nation.
Australia is the youth making the
high-dive, lithe, graceful, tanned. The
English is the patriarchal antiquity
dozing after a heavy curry who awakens
occasionally to cry “Howzat”, yet still
retains the authority of big money and
skilled politics—as perfidious as ever, yet
now a little enfeebled since the death of
the battleship and the birth of the com-
puter age: a nation not unlike a wilted
plume on an ambassador’s court dress.
The comparison between the contem-
porary Australian and Englishman is
just as the Holden advertisement would
have you believe. Anyway, that is what
the Asian thinks.
America is seen as a very doubtful,
homogenised, pasteurised, synthetic race
in ersatz suits or outrageous sportswear
whose lack of polish (when compared
with the British) is more than adequately
compensated for by their immense
power. An Asian wit defined the French
as men in smoked-glasses who appear to
be trying to reconstitute Gallicism in
Asia when in fact all they are doing is
selling eau-de-cologne plants; the Italians
as delicate, gracious progeny of Cinema
City selling Fiats; the Germans are all
Krupp—metallic and as charmless as a
Volkswagen. Canada is seen as a good-
humored annexe of the United States
who can be depended upon for obsolete
fighters and World War II destroyers
provided the purchaser’s politics are
right. The Russian image has changed
from that of a cunning ideologist work-
ing behind tatty net curtains but with
tentacles into the highest places of
government, a stiff, suspicious recluse.
He has emerged in the Asian mind
wearing thick serge suits with 22-inch
bottoms and hats wider than a grazier’s,
always ready to give a friendly ruler
an immense aircraft only Russians can
fly. The Russian is seen now as “All New
and Less Distinguished” because of the
Chinese, who are seen in austere jackets
buttoned to the throat sipping jasmine
tea while they subvert students, under-
mine the Americans, supply revolu-
tionary forces with arms supplied in the
first place by Russia or the Americans,
create “Wars of National Liberation”
and replace sex with nationwide cam-
paigns to kill flies.
The Australian on Main Street, Asia,
has changed as profoundly as has the
Russian image; after 150 years of deal-
ing with the British or the French or
the Dutch, the Australian has arrived
“all new”. Whether he is more distin-
guished remains to be seen and, if the
Australian image is difficult to define, it
is because it is still in its formative
process: Australia may have always been
in Asia but until now has not really
been part of it.
To the Asian it has seemed like the
overspill of England; until the Second
World War Australia sold wool and
meat and kept out of politics because
Canberra was merely a side street off
Downing Street. Her youth drank beer
in vast quantities, spoke with atrocious
accents, and if its national strength was
ever considered in the chanceries it
was in the same spirit as Stalin con-
sidered the Pope—the Pope? the Pope?
How many divisions has he ? Austra-
lian diplomats abroad had little identity
because they -always formed threes with
Britain and New Zealand, and some-
how Australia was confused with Hawaii
—both flags have the Union Jack in
the top left-hand corner and both were
water-locked in the Pacific.
Australia was, perhaps, Sir Robert
Menzies, tough and lean pioneers, Bondi
Beach, Ned Kelly, brawling bookies,
railroads being ramrodded across the
Great Outback and a country with what
Sir Alan Watt calls “acknowledged
military prowess”—proven guts on the
battlefield. The Britons loved the Aus-
tralians largely because Australia could,
traditionally, be depended upon to
declare war one minute before the Bri-
tish, and if, industrially, Australia could
not produce howitzers, it had some good
harbors for The Grand Fleet. It was
sufficiently remote for remittance men
and it was a good place in which to
toughen up the second sons of English
aristocrats.
‘The change in the Australian identity
in Asia may, perhaps, be described by
the position of Mr Thomas Critchley,
the Australian High Commissioner to
Malaysia. Lord Head, his British coun-
terpart, has the diplomatic power
after all he represents about 80,000
fighting men in the country. But it is
to Mr Critchley that the Malaysian
Prime Minister turns to for a second
opinion—and in diplomacy the second
opinion is as vital as the first. No longer
do the diplomats form threes, for the
Australians have a diplomacy of their
own. For Australia—in the Asian
mind —has at last recognised that it is


* ,r* w '*^ss ?
M’S* <■&, (!i&
v ••
issis
s&}>./
m
? v j&- U
m.
*mmiFK
They live in a warmer climate at N? 17
(and spend far less on fuel!)
Walk into No. 17 and you’ll find it’s ten degrees
warmer than next door. And a family feeling pretty
pleased with itself. Pleased at being warm and
cosy, pleased at saving pounds and pounds on fuel
bills.
When Insulwool goes in you not only get a warmer
home you save as much as 40% on fuel bills,
oil, gas, electricity or solid fuel. Insulwool keeps
the cold out where it belongs, and the heat in
where you want it. There are many other reasons
why you’ll be pleased you decided on genuine
Insulwool. It keeps the summer heat out! It is
indestructible; can’t burn and lasts forever. Easy
to install too. And, of course, Insulwool adds
extra value to your home.
Don’t put up with another uncomfortable winter.
Phone the Insulwool people now and get a free
quotation. Do it now before the really cold wea-
ther and the rush start. v
Insulwool
INSULWOOL PRODUCTS PTY. LTD. .
A Division of Australian Gypsum Industries Ltd.
Melbourne 329-6711
Adelaide 46-2334
Sydney 638-0571
Canberra 9-2946
Brisbane 67-4091
Hobart 3-1974
5077
I’m interested in keeping my home
warmer in winter, cooler in summer.
Please send all the facts.
Address ... -


'i
H*7
at tkt cuhpoit '
• ANY AIRPORT
\# ANY TIME
• WITH A NEW FORD FALCON
when you
FLY
drive A VIS Falcon
■ IW1 " RENTACAR * WJr%v "
AVIS and ANSETT-ANA combine to give you the most comfort-
able, fast, convenient and economical travel for both business
or pleasure!
TRAVEL RELAXED! Jet to your destination at 7 miles a minute
in luxurious comfort with Ansett-ANA! At any airport through-
out Australia a sparkling new Avis Falcon' can be waiting for
you to drive as your own! It's time-saving! It’s money-saving!
It’s the modern way to travel!
Book your Avis Rent-a-Car when you book your Ansett-ANA
flight. It’s as simple as that!
WMUiiMm
678/83/64
part of Asia. Mr Critchley may well
ride an Austin Princess to work—a
vehicle which seems to symbolise the
stately progression of Britain through
the affairs of the world, for this is not
a vehicle for a slick-chick diplomat.
But his successor will no doubt take a
Lincoln Continental, the American car
which in the diplomacy of the mid-
century holds the place the Princess held
—almost a symbolic transition from the
unthinking adherence to the customs of
“Motherland” to the sleek world of the
American. For Australia—more than
anything else—has become its own
Motherland.
The Australian image in Asia has
formulated with the change in itself:
the emergence of youthful, self-possessed,
competitive polyglot communities in
Australia to batter at the gates of the
Australian Establishment; forces which
are all elbows and brains and which, of
course, created America. For example,
the ABC talks more frankly about
venereal disease than the BBC; com-
mercial television satirises the Church;
the Crown is held up to analysis; the
omnipotence of politicians is now being
disputed.
As Britain retreats into its cold, tiny
island shell, beset constantly by grave
financial problems, riddled by disaffec-
tion, having difficulty in making a living;
so Australia has generated such self-
confidence that it is abandoning the
pound for the dollar. Australians have
such an emergent racial identity that,
in Asian eyes, they will, in a decade,
like the Canadians, demand their own
flag and their own national anthem. It
appeals to Asians that the Australian
appears to realise that he is no longer
European but Asian. What is more im-
portant in the Asian psychology is that
Australia’s hands are clean in Asia.
One of the most important single com-
ponents of Australia as a national entity
has been the,. Colombo Plan. Tens of
thousands have come to Australia for
tutorship—coming, no doubt, with an
image of a boozy Australian singing “If
You Were the Only Girl in the World”
in a dismal bar hung with chalk signs
advertising meat pies and sandwiches:
a crass, lazy, complacent, argumenta-
tive imitation of Great Britain.
He is stunned to realise that Australia
is in fact a nation with a standard of
living almost as high as that of the
United States. He finds Edinburgh is
not necessarily the mecca for medicine;
it is quite as good in Melbourne. There
is just as much industrial dynamism in
Sydney as there is in Manchester. Aus-
tralia appears as a bountiful land. The
image involves wheat ships for India,
medical supplies for Vietnam, schools
for Malaysia—hundreds of items of aid
given without the strings of self-interest.
If there is a hint of battleship poll-
tics about the presence of British and
American aircraft carriers in the South
China Seas, of “occupation forces’ in
the presence of Anglo-Saxon troops on
Astan soil, the Australians have escaped
this taint. It cannot be because of the
f f ~
smallness of these forces for, if they are
small, they pack a punch which no
terrorist likes to meet on a dark night.
Can it be that the Australian image is
essentially one of non-belligerence and
non-involvement in the great conflicts
now taking place in Asia?
Yet alt is not seen as idyllic. Tha
Australian. image has a side to it which
is not always photogenic. Some Asians
see it as a bigoted country riddled by
Victoriana which is not quite as class-
less as it represents itself. And some-
times, no doubt, Mr Critchley has to do
a lot of fast talking with Asians when
the Australian immigration policy is
discussed. But for the moment Austra-
lia is seen as a welcome successor to
the Briton in Asia—“ All New and More
Distinguished Than Ever”.


m
tAA
for sharper
sales appeals
WESTON
Advertising is built on bedrock at
Weston. The bedrock of sound planning
after all the facts about your products,
markets, and philosophy of business
are uncovered and placed in proper
perspective. Building advertising
campaigns based on this kind of plan-
ning means digging for facts and it
takes time, energy and experience.
In association with our Chicago affiliate
agency we have developed special
procedures to uncover facts to help
ferret out the unique sales advantage
of your products. We would like to show
you how this technique of gathering
"data-in-depth” can build more pro-
ductive advertising for you.
Our telephone number is 27-1142 . . .
ask for Mr. Still or Mr. Young.
WE STON
ADVERTISING PTY. LIMITED
36 Grosvenor Street, Sydney
rfgki
fr/tata*
ham***
'KilVil iKx
iuinßinn
arrtin
Pacific Zone Headquarters of AMIN
Advertising & Marketing International
Network of 66 direct affiliate agencies.
ON THE MARGIN
The Fall of Sydney
HAT ’ s happening to this fair land
of ours? Are we going the same
way as Rome did in the distant past?”
These questions were asked in a letter
to The Sydney Morning Herald pro-
testing against the Mavis Bramston Show.
In recent weeks the depravity of
Sydney’s tastes in entertainment has in-
spired Herald letter-writers to unusual
eloquence. They have reached far back
into history for parallels to the evil-
mindedness they see arohnd them. Re-
peatedly they have reminded the Editor
of the decline and fall of the Roman
Empire. A sizeable proportion of his
readers fears that Sydney if not the
whole Commonwealth is likewise on
the skids.
These worried folk take what might
be called the hangover or Alka-Seltzer
view of antiquity. The makers of that
nroduct recommend it, with delicate
choice of words, for the low condition fol-
lowing “alcoholic and other ex-
cesses.” The ancient Romans,
many Herald readers believe,
were chronically in such a con-
dition. They were so debilitated
by “other excesses” that they
let the Empire go to pot. When
the barbarians appeared at the
gates, the citizens did not have enough
energy to lift a javelin, let alone throw it.
If Sydney goes the same way, what
will be the course of events, as imagined
by Herald correspondents? Doubtless
they see members of the State Govern-
ment lying on sofas, dull-eved with de-
bauchery. The Chief Secretary is fanned
by strip-tease artists wh : le he re-reads
Lady Chatterley’s Lover. The Premier
and the Minister for Education carouse
with courtesans as they watch the Mavis
Bramston Show.
Suddenly white .- faced messengers
burst in with bad news. The barbarians
from Melbourne are on the march, led
by their dreaded chieftains Bolte and
Barassi.
Stirred to action at last, the Premier
gives the order: “Send them poker
machines!” But it is too late. The grim
hordes of Bolte and Barassi are in the
suburbs. Scenes of horror follow the
sacking of the St. George Leagues Club,
the looting of the Lottery Office. Soon
Sydney’s proud civilisation is one with
Nineveh and Tyre . . .
It is a frightening picture. But in
case citizens are preparing to take to the
hills, I can offer a few words of reas-
surance. There are some authorities who
reject the Alka-Seltzer theory of the fall
of the Roman Empire.
One is Professor H. R. Trevor-Roper,
Regius Professor of Modern History
at Oxford. In a television talk he said:
“A well-known man of letters has re-
marked, as a truism, that the Roman
Empire decayed as the direct result of
excessive sexual indulgence. I regret to
say that this view, though it has been
taken up with lugubrious zeal by church
dignitaries, rests on no discoverable
foundations whatsoever.”
If “other excesses” were not the
trouble, wh} did the Romans go under?
Gibbon in his well-known brochure took
an opposite line to the Herald letter-
writers. He blamed Christianity for
undermining the ancient world. He de-
scribed the process as “the triumph of
barbarism and religion”. But historians
today do not favor Gibbon’s theory
either.
In fact, they have given up
trying to find any simple ex-
planation for the breakdown
of the Roman Empire. They
do know that certain catas-
trophes in the third century
A.D. helped to bring it about
—the plague, a shortage of
gold, a collapse of trade. The ancient
world was hit by a combination of the
Great Depression and the Black Death.
On one point the scholars agree
in the long running-down process, power
shifted from the cities to the country.
The armies of the Empire were manned
by rustics. Big to.wns, Rome above all,
lost population and decayed; while in
the countryside serfs clustered around
landlords for protection as the Dark
Ages descended.
This gives us a hint of what to expect
if Sydney really goes the way of ancient
Rome. The suburbs will be gradually
depopulated. Goats will graze among the
deserted houses of Hornsby and Banks-
town. At the same time, in the country,
prominent families like the Whites and
Bodys and Osbornes will withdraw into
feudal independence, prepared to fight
off all comers.
In some ways the prospect is attrac-
tive. Traffic congestion would be eased
at last. Parking spaces could be found.
But the present indications are that
nothing of the kind is taking place. De-
spite the Mavis Bramston Show and
erotic paperbacks and everything, the
city grows bigger and noisier and more
uncomfortable. The fall of Sydney seems
as remote as ever.
ROSS CAMPBELL


OVERSEAS
“On the Rock”
Falange , Franco , and British colonialism
From RAY ALAN in Gibraltar
Seen from across the Bay of
Algeciras, Gibraltar is a stirring
sight —though how it stirs you
depends on the sort of history you were
taught at school. “Looking at that ugly
great thing,” an Irish nun told me one
day, “my heart bleeds for Spain.” Seen
from within, Gibraltar is as dismal as
most naval and military bases a
cramped conglomeration of barracks,
docks, narrow streets, d'ngy tenements,
bleak bars and vomiting sailors—though
redeemed for tourists by its Mediter-
ranean sun and low-tariff bazaars, piled
high u'ith the novelties and knick-knacks
of four continents.
If one must go there it is best nowa-
days not to speak English in the frontier
zone or to have a British or Gibraltarian
licence plate on one’s car. French and
German cars pass through the Spanish
Customs in a couple of minutes; British
cars are allowed through at the rate
of two every hour—not that they are
all searched very thoroughly, despite the
Spaniards’ insistence that Gibraltar is a
hotbed of smuggling (which it is). The
Spanish Customs men just stand there
smoking and say: “We’re under orders
. . .” Even foodstuffs and other essential
supplies, most of which Gibraltar imports
from Spain, are being held up. Britons
and Gibraltarians who work on the Rock
but prefer to live in Spain may no longer
commute over the frontier daily.
The only surprising thing about the
Anglo-Spanish quarrel over Gibraltar is
that it has been kept on ice for so long.
General Francisco Franco's spokesmen
have been saying rude things about
British imperialism in general, and the
Crown Colony of Gibraltar in particular,
for a quarter of a century now. Except
for certain of the Soviet Union’s war-
time acquisitions, Gibraltar is the last
colonial enclave in Europe. Its status is
all the more humiliating for Spaniards
because Spain herself was the first and,
for a century and a half, the greatest
of the modern imperial powers. General
Franco is not exactly a popular ruler;
but he might become one, however
briefly, if he appeared on television one
day to announce the recovery of Gibral-
tar. Even without any such sensational
success, raising a rumpus over the Rock
is a welcome means of diverting atten-
tion from the agitation for higher pay
and free labor unions that is again
making itself felt in Spain.
The Gibraltar crisis also has a certain
usefulness on the international level.
General Franco’s foreign policy, cramped
as it is by the refusal of the more mature
European democracies to accept him,
even as an associate member, in either
NATO or the European Economic Com-
munity, is unable to go much beyond
nostalgic flirtations with Hispano-
America and the Arab League.
The Spanish Press has given promi-
nence to an editorial in the “Irish In-
dependent” which declared that if Nehru
was justified in seizing Goa, Franco
would be justified in marching on Gibral-
tar. Irish volunteers, always eager for a
donnybrook with the British, are offering
the Spaniards their services. But to the
best of my knowledge nobody outside
Ireland seriously expects Franco to
march. There is no hotheadedness what-
soever in official quarters in Madrid. On
the contrary, despite a certain shrillness
in the Falangist Press, the Spanish Gov-
ernment is playing its hand coolly and
raising its eyebrows at what it calls the
excitability and irresponsibility of certain
British newspapers and members of
Parliament. Spanish plans are long-term
and economic, not short-term and
military.
Spanish strategy is to be “aislar para
recuperar” (“isolated to recuperate”). It
seeks to make Gibraltar “a ruinous
burden for the British taxpayer and a
grievous prison for Gibraltar’s inhabi-
tants . . . Left to its own resources,
Gibraltar cannot survive. The Rock will
weigh heavier on John Bull’s shoulders
each year. He will be unable to stand
the strain indefinitely.” The words are
those of the influential Catholic Action
daily “Ya”, which has been campaign-
ing for some time for an economic
offensive against Gibraltar. They reflect
precisely the dominant trend of official
thinking on the subject. The Spanish
authorities have set themselves two clear-
cut objectives: to starve Gibraltar of
labor, by providing employment in Spain
for the 10,000 Spaniards who cross the
border every day to work on the Rock,
and to undermine its importance as a
commercial and tourist centre.
The counter-measures Britain can take
are limited. Orders for Gibraltar’s food
supplies are now being placed in
Morocco, and efforts are being made to
increase the colony’s appeal as a tourist
resort in its own right rather than as a
mere stopover for travellers on their way
to and from Spain. Some British officials
are toying with the idea of importing
Moroccan workers in preparation for the
day when the supply of Andalusian labor
dwindles, though this expedient would
surely create more problems than it
would solve. Present indications are
that the Moroccan Government would
veto the scheme; but even if it did not,
the Moroccans could scarcely be ex-
pected to commute twice a day between
Gibraltar and Tangier; and a Gibraltar
cluttered with barracks and bidonvilles
housing 10,000 Moroccans would be
even less attractive to tourists than it is
today.
British MPs and newspapers have
urged their compatriots to put pressure
on Spain by staying away from Spanish
beaches this summer. But British tourists
are less important to Spain than those
from the European Community (France
alone sends Spain four times more
visitors than Britain), and the number of
foreign tourists visiting Spain each year
has increased so dramatically (from two
million in 1954 to 14 million in 1964)
that a hundred thousand or so British
abstentions would merely ease pressure
on resources that are anyway becoming
overstrained.
As it happens, too, the British public
—bored by Whitehall’s perpetual colonial
squabbles, and increasingly anti-Com-
monwealth as a result of colored im-
migration— does not seem greatly in-
terested in Gibraltar. In mid-February,
British tourist bookings in Spain were
12 per cent higher than at the same
time last year, and “serious” inquiries


from British subjects wishing to buy real
estate in Spain for vacations and retire-
ment were almost 15 per cent higher.
If Gibraltar’s inhabitants were Spanish
and eager for reunion with Spam, and
if Spain were a democracy, the case for
a transfer of power would be morally
irresistible. But most of Gibraltar s
Spanish inhabitants moved out to found
the town of San Roque, five miles to the
north, when the British took over m
1704. The Rocks present occupants
(25,000 in 1959) are the descendants of
settlers brought in by the British from
Genoa, Malta and elsewhere. Their
loyalty is to Gibraltar, not Spain, though
most of them speak Spanish and their
integration in a democratic Spain would,
in all like iihood, not be difficult,
The key word is “democratic”. A
re gime in which even a city like Madrid
j s not permitted to select its own mayor
WO uld have little consideration for tiny
Gibraltar
(From “The New Leader”, New York.)
One Score Years
and then...
Handclasps for the UN Charter
From GEORGE MCGANN in New York
Those of us who were in San Fran-
cisco in 1945 when the Charter
was signed have been invited
back to that lovely city by the sea to
celebrate the 20th anniversary of the
United Nations. The invitation comes
from the City of San Francisco, which
is going to pay for the celebration inas-
much as the UN is virtually broke. The
invitation is decorated with a laurel
wreath enclosing two hands clasped in
a firm grip of friendship the emblem
adopted by the UN to designate 1965 as
International Co-operation Year. There
are a lot of hands I want to clasp again
after twenty years, which is one reason
I will be at the Opera House once more
this June 26. Another reason is that I
fear it may be the last anniversary of the
unhappy world organisation, which is cer-
tainly moribund at the moment, if not in
fact dead.
A television programme the .other
night achieved a neat dramatic effect by
juxtaposing action shots of the fighting
in Vietnam with a view of the empty
rows of seats in the General Assembly.
That body, now in recess after a hope-
less, fruitless session, no longer is cap-
able of conducting even mere debate on
breaches of the peace such as the Viet-
nam hostilities, much less taking action
to halt them. And the Security Council
dare not go into session on Vietnam for
fear of Russian —or French —veto.
Morale among career people at UN
headquarters is at an all-time low, faced
as they are with the threat that the organ-
isation may disintegrate altogether at
the next Assembly session in September.
Unless the dispute between the United
States, seeking to enforce Article 19 of
the Charter, and the Soviet Union,
France and a dozen or more smaller
countries who refuse to pay their as-
sessed share of peace-keeping costs, can
be compromised in some way not now
foreseeable, the UN may be wrecked
before the year is out. Indonesia’s con-
temptuous walkout shook the UN to its
foundations; a Russian and French walk-
out would bring it dow'n in ruins. The
prestige of the UN in the United States,
which contains a highly dissident min-
ority of Rightists clinging to their ancient
dream of isolationism, was never so low
as it has been since the spectacle of the
stalemated 19th Assembly, caucusing
furtively in corridors and back rooms
lest an open vote bring on the dreaded
showdown between its two giants.
The other day anti-United Nations
groups picketed the New York office of
Xerox Corporation, which had the tem-
erity to sponsor a television programme
extolling UNICEF for its humanitarian
work. “Xerox promoting people eaters”
read one picket’s placard. I have seen
many motor-cars wearing stickers with
the slogan: “Get the US out of the UN
and the UN out of the US”.
The beginning of this disenchantment
might be pinpointed to the fateful
General Assembly meeting of 1955,
which admitted 16 nations to member-
ship. That started the influx of Afro-
Asian nations which has now swelled
total membership to 115, a number
which the original 51 founders never en-
visaged a scant two decades ago.
This completely unexpected mush-
rooming in the size of the General As-
sembly has radically altered its political
complexion. No longer is the United
States able to impose its wall through
bloc-voting. The new members tend to
side with the Russians, as they demon-
strated in the Congo episodes, or in any
case cannot be depended upon for con-
sistent courses of action. This has made
the Assembly virtually incapable of
forming the necessary two-thirds maj-
ority in support of substantive matters of
any kind. Thus effective action in the
United Nations must again be taken by
the Security Council, as it was during
the first decade of UN operation before
the United States succeeded in forging
the General Assembly into an instrument
more or less obedient to its policies.
And in the Security Council, as in the
first decade, the Russians exercise effec-
tive control again through the threat of
the veto.
As a concomitant development to the
return of real power to the Security
Council the office of Secretary-General
has been correspondingly reduced in
authority. U Thant is hardly the com-
manding figure Dag Hammarskjold was,
even conceding him a somewhat less
forceful personality. His helplessness in
Vietnam, contrasted with the effective-
ness of his predecessor in the Congo
and Suez, derives mainly from the sharp
decline in prestige of the office of Sec-
retary-General itself. Despite its failures,
short-comings and dark prospects at the
moment, there are many people in this
country aware of the enormous con-
tributions the UN has made to world
peace during the past 20 years, and who
are determined that it shall not share the
fate of the League of Nations.
Professor Hans Morgenthau, one of
America’s leading political scientists and
a consultant to the State and Defence
Departments, recently summed up UN
accomplishments as four-fold:
(1) Although it may not have pre-
vented wars, it shortened the conflicts in
Palestine and Indonesia in 1949, in
Egypt in 1956 and in the Congo, until
its forces there had to be withdrawn for
lack of funds.
(2) It has often provided an oppor-
tunity for behind-the-scenes negotiations
between the major powers, as in 1949,
when it helped to lift the Berlin blockade.
(3) It has often acted as a buffer
between hostile nations, as in Cyprus,
where it found a face-saving formula
satisfactory to Greece and Turkey.
(4) It has provided an invaluable world
forum, where the smailer nations in par-
ticular can meet and talk to the repre-
sentatives of the major powers and air
their views.
The accomplishments of its subsidiary
organisations, such as UNICEF and the
World Health Organisation, are so
enormous that they provide in themselves
reason enough to keep the UN alive.
A revision of the UN Charter is long
overdue. Now that we are all going back
to San Francisco, I suggest we cut out
the cocktail parties (well, cut them down)
and put the delegates back to work on
the Charier.


JET THE DAYTIME WAY TO EUROPE
TAKE A
SINGAPORE
MSB
tIJI.IJI
rJ§II I! Jgjg: V
W
<&*
sssss
AND THE WONDERFUL BOAC
i/co®
i
mm
Experienced travellers are welcoming this new
daytime way to Europe. Jet BOAC 707 by day
to Singapore; fly on refreshed next morning by
day to Europe and the UK by the superb BOAC
VC 10. (Ask for a VC 10 flight between London
and New York or San Francisco, too.)
For full details of BOAC’s daily Rolls-Royce jet
services from Australia, and the facilities of the
BOAC world network, talk to your Travel Agent,
BOAC, or Qantas (BOAC’s General Sales Agents).
ROLLS-ROYCE JETS
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH
AIR INDIA, QANTAS AND AIR NEW ZEALAND
98.101 N
ms m
BOAC
ROLLS-ROYCE
JETS
1
■ To Singapore, Calcutta, Teheran,
Beirut, Rome, London.
■ To Singapore, Bombay, Teheran,
Tel Aviv, Zurich, London.
■ To Auckland.
HIE
■ To Hong Kong for Bangkok,
Bombay, Teheran, Tel Aviv, Zurich,
London.
■ To Singapore, Colombo, Bombay,
Abadan, Damascus, Zurich, London.
WED
■ To Singapore, Rangoon, Delhi,
Beirut, Rome, London.
1
■ To Hong Kong for Bangkok,
Delhi, Cairo, Zurich, London.
■ To Auckland.
■ To Singapore, Calcutta, Karachi,
Beirut, Rome, London.
SAT
■ To Singapore, Bangkok, Calcutta
Teheran, Zurich, London.
■ To Singapore, Colombo, Bombay,
Abadan, Damascus, Frankfurt,
London.
For full details of BOAC's daily Rolls-
Royce jet services from Australia, and the
facilities of the BOAC world network, talk
to your Travel Agent, BOAC or Qantaa
(BOAC's General Sales Agents),
ALL OVER THE WORLD BOAC TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH
AIR INDIA, QANTAS AND AIR NEW ZEALAND
9138
78/103I*
The Third
Man
MacLean to Madsoeyevsky
From KEITH MORPHETT
in Moscow
The news that runaway British diplo-
mat Donald Mac Lean has been
ordered “a complete rest” by
Russian doctors has not surprised the
handful of people he mixes with in
Moscow. His “strange behavior” has
been puzzling them in recent weeks. He
switches from personality to personality,
they say, depending entirely on the
company he is with at the time. And
the troubled mind of Mac Lean has
three personalities to contend with—
Donald Mac Lean, Mark Fraser and S.
Madsoeyevsky, all one and the same
man.
Mark Fraser, by which he is generally
known, is greeted each morning as
“Tovarich Fraser” by the old Russian
woman who watches over the apartment
block in central Moscow. This is where
he lives with his American wife, Melinda,
and their three children, who have taken
far more easily to a life of exile. It is
Mark Fraser who turns up at the
Economics Institute, in the Moscow
suburbs, where he has frequently been
working, and it is Mark Fraser who
answers telephone calls at the Mac Lean
apartment.
S. Madsoeyevsky has taken over only
very recently, and enables Mac Lean to
appear in print in Soviet publications
without being immediately identified.
The Russians are also anxious that his
views should pass for those of a Russian
commentator.
It was Donald Mac Lean, in manner
and in person, who took part in one of
the strangest encounters Moscow’s diplo-
matic community has witnessed in years.
Mac Lean and the British Ambassador in
Moscow, Sir Humphrey Trevelyan, met
accidentally in the foyer of a Moscow
theatre during the interval. They knew
each other slightly from their Foreign
Office days, when both were on the lower
rungs of their careers. A second diplo-
mat who was present describes the scene:
“It was something quite remarkable.
The two men recognised each other
immediately. For Sir Humphrey, of
course, it was impossible to make an
approach to Mac Lean, or even to speak
with him. Mac Lean looked as if he
would love to talk. Instead, the two
men just stood looking at each other
for several seconds, each, no. doubt,
wondering what was going on in the
other’s mind.”


Pick, a, pouchy
AMPHORA
gentle
LIKE AN
EXTRA MILD TOBACCO?
Then ask for Amphora
In the Brown Pouch
WSi
v
PREFER A
MILD AROMATIC?
Then try Amphora Aromatic
in the Blue Pouch
FOR A
FULL AROMATIC!
Choose Amphora Full Aromatic
in the Red Pouch
AMPHORA
There’s a choice of
three fine Amphora pipe
tobaccos all cool
smoking —so there i$
one to suit you. Amphora
is an imported tobacco!
64
I PRODUCT OF DQUWE EGBERTS ROYAL FACTORIES. UTRECHT, HOLLAND
SAI«
“No More Munichs”
This week Israel celebrates its 17th Independence Day. In Canberra ,
Sam Lipski asked Israel’s Ambassador to Australia, Mr David Tesher:
Will there be another war in the Middle East? What difference have
President Bourguiba’s proposals made? What will Israel do if the Jordan
water scheme is threatened?
jyfß TESIIER, do you agree with a
recent report that a “pre-Suez”
atmosphere is developing in Israel where
the possibility of a pre-emptive attack
on the UAR is being openly discussed?
It's difficult to judge what atmosphere
means at this distance. Certainly there
is a general feeling in Israel that the rest
of the world, especially the big powers,
do not sufficiently understand the dangers
we face. There is a determination to be
strong but I don’t think there is any
kind of widespread feeling for a pre-
emptive attack at this stage. We are
determined not to be provoked.
Analogies in assessment of political
situations can be misleading. Let us also
be very careful with semantics. If our
neighbors divert the sources of our only
main river they will be committing
aggression, and the term “pre-emptive”,
will certainly not apply to whatever
action our Government will be compelled
to take. In the absence of readiness for
negotiations on the Arab side of the
conflict, the next best guarantee for
peace in the area is the existence of
deterring power for which the preserva-
tion of an equitable balance of arma-
ments is a pre-condition. Politically, it
seems to me that war in the Middle East
can certainly be prevented by both sides
of the big power blocs taking a deter-
mined stand against such possibility. Our
concept of security is not based on the
inevitability of war; the Arab concept,
however, appears to be completely
geared to it. We cannot envisage solving
any of our problems by war. We are
not preparing for the conquest of Arab
nations or the eliminating of any Arab
State. This would obviously be devoid'
of any political sense. At the same time,
the Arabs think they can solve what
they believe to be their problem by the
physical destruction of Israel.
Israel’s Prime Minister Eshkol has
declared that the water diversion scheme
of the Jordan is a vital matter and that
interference with it would be a matter
of life and death for Israel. Since
Lebanon has started with its own plans
for diversion is this “interference”?
It is true that the diversion attempts'
by Lebanon have started. But the im-
portant tiling is that the Arab schemes
for diversion are not based on need but
spite. If they were to be allowed to
MR D. TESHER
implement their scheme we would be
deprived of 35 per cent of our water.
This is not a conflict in which both sides
want the same water. They have thirteen
times as much water as we do from the
same sources. Their motivation is candid
enough. They want to deny any develop-
ment of Israel which will enable us to
continue with our development pro-
gramme. They have said openly that they
see in their diversion of the waters the
first act of the destruction of Israel by
Arab might, the beginning of the end
for Israel.
How seriously should these claims be
taken? Aren’t they very much for
internal consumption and stirring up
nationalism?
Some democracies have always had a
fatal habit of not listening to dictators
declare what they’re going to do ahead
of time. As for internal consumption this
has a force of its own, especially in the
Middle East. When heads of State,
generals, diplomats, editors, trade com-
missioners all announce their enthusiasm
for a general plan to destroy Israel, when
a United Arab Command is set up for
the express purpose then it is lack of
responsibility to dismiss it all as an empty
gesture.
What role do you think President
Nasser’s diplomacy plays in relations
between the two blocs over the Middle
East?
President Nasser is manoeuvring his
boat on the high seas of international
policies using the strong winds of world-


5738
FAIRSKY SUNSHINE CRUISE!
Leave Winter behind for sixteen sun-soaked days, when you sail with
Fairsky on a wonderful follow-the-sun cruise through the blue waters
of the Pacific to Noumea and back. You embark at Sydney, July 17th,
call at Cairns and Hayman Island on the way, enjoy fabulous fun,
tropical sun, food, wine and music all the way. All this from as little
as £llO. □ Book with your travel Agent now and be sure. □ You can
disembark at Brisbane on the way back, if you like, or step ashore
at Sydney on August Ist.
follow
the sun
in july
brisban®
CRUISE THE PACIFIC WITH
wide as well as regional controversies.
His so-called non-alignment does not
mean keeping away from other nations’
conflicts and problems. On the contrary,
he is jumping smack into the middle
of as many conflicts as possible, playing
both ends against the middle. In this
process he has become an aggravating
factor in international relations. I think
it would have a salutary influence on the
prospects of peace in the Middle East
and elsewhere if President Nasser can
be brought to realise that there will be
no submission to his every wish and no
Munich in the Middle East.
Talk of Munich raises the whole ques-
tion of Israel’s relations with West Ger-
many. Why is Israel so anxious to
establish full diplomatic relations?
Israel believes that diplomatic rela-
tions with all countries are necessary
regardless of their political views, and
there is no implication of automatic
approval of the regimes involved. It is
admittedly a question which raises many
emotional issues in Israel and with Jews
throughout the world. We were un-
happy with the way West Germany
stopped her arms shipments to us, but
closer ties with West Germany mean
closer ties with Europe.
Would you agree with the oft-quoted
view that the problem of the Arab
refugees remains the one great obstacle
to a solution?
The refugee issue is not a genuine
problem. There is no genuine dispute
here. It is being used politically in
the same way as the question of the
water diversion. If you look at the
refugee situation over the last 17 years
you will see that some sections of them
have been absorbed. If there was a
genuine interest in their welfare,
countries like Jordan who desperately
need manpower would have absorbed
even more of them. The Arab refugees
do not present the bone of contention.
The situation is quite simply one of
asymmetrical conflict. They don’t say:
“You take the Arab refugees and we will
then live in peace”. What they are ask-
ing us to do is an invitation to suicide
which we are not about to accept. We
have made our position quite clear. We
are prepared to negotiate without pre-
conditions. We are prepared to pay
compensation providing that there are
reciprocal payments for the half-million
Jews expelled from Arab countries and
who have had their property confiscated.
We have already arranged the reunifica-
tion of many Arab families and we have
returned Arab safe-deposit boxes. But
this is really irrelevant to Arab demands.
They want to preserve the problem, not
solve it.
Are there any signs that there may be
Arab individuals or groups prepared to


start negotiating or who are offering new
solutions?
There is no need to explain the dif-
ficulties of having different views in a
totalitarian State. If there are any dif-
fering views on the question of Israel
they are not coming to the fore within
the Arab countries. But if you take
the upheavals which periodically occur
within the Arab countries you will see
that there is clear opposition to Nasser
as a supreme leader of all the Arab
States. Whether this opposition which
essentially rejects centralistic views of
Arab, nationalism could one day develop
into a closer co-operation with Israel is
another matter. Perhaps there could be
regional co-operation with a real poly-
centric Arab world and the tendency is
toward that. President Nasser’s unity
plans with Syria did not succeed. He has
been waging war against another Arab
country, Yemen, for two years—using
lethal poison gas and napalm bombs on
villages. He has to prop up the dictator-
ship in Iraq. Yet we have to be very
careful of anything which looks like a
change because it might not necessarily
be a change as far as Israel is concerned.
What of President Bourguiba of
Tunisia and his suggestions for solving
the conflict?
It is a significant rejection of two of
President Nasser’s chief policies that
Israel has no right to exist and that was
inevitable. But it does not mean that
whole new vistas are opened up. As I
have explained, this is not really a prob-
lem of co-existence of Jews and Arabs
in the Middle East but of Arab States
being ready to accept a Jewish State in
their midst. The Middle East is not
basically a purely Arab region. There
are non-Arab States and it must be an
area of diversified populations and
cultures.
If there was a war tomorrow in the
Middle East, would you hazard a pre-
diction of its outcome?
I would not really undertake to
prophesy. This requires an assessment
in a highly specialised area. In respect
of armaments the gap between us is
widening all the time, with the Arab
States, especially Egypt, getting huge
quantities of Soviet arms. As for the
performance of our troops, there is little
doubt in everybody’s mind. Our army is
based on a highly developed, well-
organised society. What all this would
mean on the day of decision remains,
of course, to be seen. However, with
all our understandable worries, the final
outcome is not in doubt in our minds.
(The Bulletin has invited the Ambas-
sador for the United Arab Republic to
discuss his country’s relations with Israel.)
The Ones VE Day Forgot
Polish migrants 20 years after
By EUGENE BAJKOWSKI
Destitute, penniless, often picked
like cattle by hurried immigration
officials in the dingy, squalid “DP”
camps of post-war Europe, the first post-
war Poles came packed like sardines in
stuffy holds of migrant “liners” steaming
into Sydney, Adelaide and Melbourne.
Then they were promptly bundled into
the hastily set-up bleak “transit camps”
at Bathurst and Bonegilla, and later des-
patched to remote places to ease the
post-war labor shortage.
Many of them had just shed their
World War II uniforms. They had
fought in the West and in the East, in
the huge underground resistance move-
ment, in the Battle of Britain in the ranks
of the “Polish RAF” and even raised
their white-and-red flag over Berlin.
Many met their first Australians at
Tobruk.
But the triumphant handshake over the
Elbe River in Germany was not for them.
The triumph of the VE Day had a
hollow meaning for Polish soldiers in the
West and the hundreds of thousands of
prisoners of war and deportees.
Poland was torn by a civil war. Though
the Lublin regime, which in the meantime
moved into the ruins of Warsaw, was
recognised by the Western Allies as
Poland's legal Government, a great many
Poles in the West refused to accept it
and could not go back to their homes.
Until recently praised as allies and
welcomed as liberators, they became a
burden, a mass of troublesome, unwanted
and impoverished political refugees.
Migration became the only solution for
those who would not, or could not, re-
turn home. Also, for tens of thousands
“home” was now beyond the new Polish-
Soviet frontier on the Bug. It was at
this stage that Australia embarked upon
its immigration scheme.
Polish migrants carried with them an
explosive emotional load of bitterness,
shattered hopes and personal frustrations.
They knew little about Australia. This
was “the end of the world” and they had
nowhere else to go.
Initially, only the young and the
healthy were accepted. Families were
broken up when most dependants had to
be left behind in “DP” camps. Id return
for a landing permit and free passage
in the hold of a converted troopship, a
migrant had to sign a two-year labor con-
tract, undertaking to work wherever
directed in Australia. And the average
Australian, despite his basic acceptance
of the mass immigration scheme, at first
tended to think about the European
migrants as so many “foreign tramps”.
Two mental attitudes clashed. Polish
migrants felt that after “having been be-
trayed by the Allies” they were being
pushed around by bumbling officials.
There was also the usual disillusionment
of a soldier or partisan suddenly turned


into an impoverished civilian, without
status, uncertain of his future, lost in a
new country with different customs and
traditions, plagued with acute language
difficulties and urged to forget everything
about his immediate past.
In those days hardly any non-British
academic, professional or tradesmen’s
qualifications were recognised in Austra-
lia. Trade unions and professional bodies
were often unfriendly to newcomers. The
attitude was that all that Australia really
wanted by way of migrants was brawn
and muscle.
For the Australians it was also not easy
to accept the new order of things. Life
became faster, more complex and con-
fusing. Jobs had to be found for Aus-
tralian ex-servicemen demanding privi-
leges often earned by blood.
Hundreds of thousands of newcomers
were pouring in, nervous, bitter, clamor-
ing for competitive jobs, aggravating the
housing shortage, speaking a variety of
strange tongues, clumsy with their Eng-
lish, used to dressing, eating, drinking and
living in a different w'ay. Migrants were
ignorant, sometimes contemptuous, of
local habits, traditions and even laws,
often tactless and unaware of the deli-
cate intricacies of Australia's social
mechanism, the carefully established
balances between the “Tykes” and the
“Masons”, the bosses and the unions, of
the widespread prejudice against “long-
haired intellectuals.”
Women became an immediate problem.
Many Australians were quite happy to
work next to migrants at their jobs and
drink with them at their favorite pubs,
but objected when “Balts” and “Reffos”
(in those days all non-British migrants
except the Italians came under this cate-
gory) made a line for their womenfolk.
If many Poles considered themselves
“betrayed” and given a rough deal, and
yesterday’s squadron leaders and majors
with British DFC and Military Cross
ribbons (plus the prized Polish “Virtuti”
and “Krzyz Walecznych”) were not
thrilled with pick and shovel jobs, many
an Australian thought they were simply
“have beens” and “ingrates” given a
chance “to forget the past and start a
new life” in the Promised Land but in-
capable of living up to it.
Tensions built up as the migrants kept
pouring in. There were hunger strikes
at Bradfield Park and trouble at Bathurst
and Bonegilla. In Chullora there was
the 1948 “Polish Mutiny” staged by
former members of the Polish Air Force
who flew with the RAF during the war.
Led by Squadron-Leader Boleslaw Kor-
powski (DFC, the coveted Polish “Virtuti
Militari”, etc.) and supported by Austra-
lian ex-Servicemen’s organisations, the
Chullora Poles created such an uproar
that the Federal Parliament pushed
through a special Act cutting down resi-
dential qualifications for naturalisation
purposes by the number of years which
the Poles had served under British opera-
tional command. The final upsurge of
the “Chullora Mutiny” was Australia’s
first mass naturalisation ceremony in the
Great Hall of Sydney University.
T)ASfNG himself on census figures and
** the number of children born to Polish
mothers in Australia and Germany (in
1945.-51), Dr J. Zubrzycki, ANU’s popu-
lation studies expert, estimates that on
June 30, 1961, there were in Australia
90,895 Poles and persons of Polish de-
scent. About a third of them probably
never saw Poland.
Lech Paszkowski (“Poles in Australia
and Oceania”) speaks about 100,000
Australian Poles. Jan Dunin-Karwioki,
editor of the Sydney “Wiadomosci Pol-
skie” (“Polish News”), gives a somewhat
higher estimate of 110,000. And a well-
informed Polish Jesuit chaplain in Vic-
toria quotes an even higher figure of
130.000, including Pobsb lews and
descendants of early Polish settlers.
TWENTY years ago on Mav 8,
1945, the world celebrated Vic-
tory in Europe Day. Eastern
Europe, however, found little to
celebrate as it swapped Hitler’s
terrorism for Stalin’s. Of the
migrants who fled, embittered and
confused, to an Australia which
did not understand their problems,
the Poles formed the biggest grout).
In this article, Eugene Baikowski
describes the frustrations, tensions
and ultimate success of these most
embattled and stimulating of “New
A ustralians”'.
These 100.000 or so Poles are not a
uniform group, despite their common
tradition, customs, cultural heritage and
language. They are members of the
same Polish associations, go to the same
churches and read the same two Polish
weeklies published in Svdney and Mel-
bourne. Predictably, many still marry
within their ethnic group though, as Dr
Zubrzvcki points out. the proportion of
marriages with Australians and members
of other migrant groups is much higher
than fifteen years ago.
Political and social attitudes of some
have undergone a radical though gradual
change. The mentality of others has
changed little since they reluctantly swal-
lowed their first steak-and-kidney pie at
Bathurst.
The evolution of social and political
thinking among the Australian Poles has
generally been towards a more liberal,
realistic and sophisticated, if a bit cynical,
outlook on life. They now know they are
wanted here, are conscious of their rights,
fiercely proud of their traditional “Polish-
ness” and not greatly concerned about
“being second-class citizens”.
True, there still is a lot of talk about
a naturalised Pole forever remaining
only a “second-class" Australian. But
these days drunks on the late Liverpool
suburban train no longer abuse one for
speaking a foreign language, and if they
try the crowd quickly turns against them.
Being a migrant no longer carries a stig-
ma, and in everyday life being a Pole is
usually no longer a handicap.
This is particularly true of the younger
and middle-age groups. These people
have by and large made their lives in
Australia a success. They usually have
a decent home, earn a reasonable and
sometimes good wage, own cars, TV sets
and washing machines and are more
successful with Australian girls than with
Polish damsels, who are still a pretty
scarce commodity. All this was achieved
by sheer hard work, dynamic personality,
adaptability to the Australian environ-
ment and without greatly “compromi-
sing” one’s “Polishness” (which is every
bit as precious to Poles as the “Irishness”
to t v, e Irish).
But for many of the “older” genera-
tion. particularly <or the educated ones,
it was far too late to begin a fresh
start in life. By the time their contracts
expired they were physically and
emotionally exhausted and content to
settle down to a reasonably comfortable
but uneventful day-to-day vegetation.
Their weekends were brightened by re-
living the past, and God knows there was
a lot to relive. They set up little groups
and societies in which they could still
feel being somebody important. In these
a surprisingly large number finally found
important and useful things to do. Some
wrote memoirs and stories that were
eagerly printed by major Polish publi-
cations overseas, genuinely surprised
though their editors were that something
worthwhile could ever come from Aus-
tralia.
Others established choir and folk dan-
cing groups which, like the Mordwinow
Ensemble in Adelaide, eventually brought
them new recognition and often fame in
their own right. Libraries, discussion
groups, Saturday Polish language classes
for Polish children, historical societies,
Boy Scouts and Girl Guides and even
first rate part-time theatrical groups were
set up.
This section of the “o’d generation”
often lives a “double life” A former
senator works as a clerk and a former
diplomat as a travel agent but after work
is over they are their old selves again.
And through their cultural activities they
have both preserved the links wi h the
younger generation and established new
links with their Australian environment.
This in turn often led to va'uable per-
sonal contacts and more satisfying or at
least better-paid jobs.


INTERESTED IN
WRITING?
STOTT'S CAN TRAIN
YOU!
Turn your talent into a spare time income.
There is a constant demand for well-written
stories, articles, pars, radio and TV scripts,
etc., and you can learn to write successfully
for Australian and overseas magazines and
papers.
Stott's will provide you with interesting, prac-
tical Home-Study instruction of the highest
quality. All Stott Literary Instructors are fully
qualified in their respective fields.
Slotts Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castlcreagh
Street Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street. Brisbane;
21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; 1130 Hay Street,
Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT'S: Please send me. without any
obligation, your Prespectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (8.1365)
No representative will call following your
inquiry.
Not all have gone this way. Too many
of the “Great Wave” of the late 'forties
have wasted their talent and energy in
futile, vicious squabbling over what are
now coffee-shop issues.
Their nostalgia is barren and bitter
and issues which take up their time petty
and unreal. It is in this atmosphere of
grotesque unreality, angry recriminations
—going back well beyond the Stalinist
era in Poland and the war years to the
now almost mythical political issues of
the ’twenties—that cranks thrive and
witch-hunting vendettas are initiated.
Born in sick minds, the thought of
glories of the past that never really were
are fought over with bitter relish, former
sergeants lay claims to having once been
majors and revel in the empty titles of
“Presidents” or “Chairmen” of great
societies with a dozen members.
This is the life of what today is a
small minority of Australian Poles. The
touch with the younger people and most
of the middle-age group is gone.
They have nothing in common now,
the tragically frustrated die-hards and
those who managed to pass through hell
and then live on. Some of the die-hards
still linger on in the vast interstate net-
work of Polish organisations. At times
they occupy important positions in the
societies and fight vigorously to hang on.
The process of natural selection is not
yet complete, though the result of the
unequal contest between the old and the
new is a foregone conclusion. But it
is not yet over and many archaic notions
have not yet been thrown overboard,
though last October's three-day National
Congress of the Federal Council of
Polish Organisations in Australia the
central co-ordinating body of almost all
the Polish societies and groups—has gone
a long way towards clearing the decks.
JTTIIS was probably the most important
meeting of Australian Poles yet, and
the first one to be discussed at consider-
able length by the Polish Press overseas.
The sessions were fiercely democratic
and so dragged on endlessly in Ashfield's
two-storey “Dom Polski”, under the
slightly lopsided picture of the Queen and
a dusty white-and-red Polish flag.
The old put up a hard fight against the
new, and the lovely blonde medical
student who took the monstrous minutes
often looked up in tired wonder at the
utterances of some of the die-hards.
She was a representative of the 8-000-
strong “New Wave” which migrated to
Australia after 1956 and so looked at her
former life in Poland and five years in
Australia in real terms.
Tearful from thick cigarette smoke
which filled the small hall, the young
girl was frankly astonished at the witch-
hunting charges that the “Australian
Polonia” was being taken over lock,
stock and barrel by “hirelings of the
Warsaw regime”.
The charges were not new and were
repeated ever since the “Great Wave’s”
first days in Australia. But they sounded
good and were a convenient ammunition
against personal enemies. This time,
however, they were met head-on and
fizzled out in a spate of half-hearted re-
tractions.
Most of the delegates felt that some
change in the Council's formal attitudes
was necessary, if it was to retain its in-
fluence on the Australian Poles who are
tired of the tortuous, artificial distinctions
between what is “ideologically” “right”
and “wrong”.
The classical old attitude is that a good
Polish political refugee shuns any contact
with what may have been polluted by the
Warsaw Communists. Who rules‘in War-
saw, be it the Stalinists, Gomulka or the
young “revisionists”, who should eventu-
ally succeed Gomulka, is immaterial.
This uncompromising attitude is logical
enough and not surprising in view of
Stalin’s treachery in 1939 and Soviet
imperialism’s brutal forays into Poland
after 1944. But even the most logical
political concepts become absurd when
they fail to keep pace with time. In
practical terms the “uncompromising”
line, if taken seriously—and if it is not it
becomes a sorry joke—involves a willing
self-imposition of crippling restrictions.
In short, a good “political refugee” should
not see any Polish films (unless they are
of pre-war vintage) or read anything
published in Poland since 1945, must not
make even a private trip to Poland, and
is obliged to boycott any imports from
Poland.
Life being what it is immediate excep-
tions had to be made. So gifts and
parcels to Poland became “exempt” from
this self-imposed ban. Certain books
soon became “exempt” and then certain
films. Then “scientific contacts” were
grudgingly tolerated, if they occurred
“in line of duty”. The carefully-worded
“ideological declarations” soon became
one long succession of exemptions.
Naturalisation was long a thorny pro-
blem. Would one betray Poland by be-
coming an Australian citizen? Would
one cease being a political refugee?
Taking into account that the first
“Great Migration” years were harsh and
marred by severe assimilationist pres-
sures of the “you must forget you were
ever a Pole once we’ve allowed you in”
type, it is not difficult to see why this
combination of factors produced a
marked hesitancy towards naturalisation
among the Poles.
Fortunately, the first ten years dimi-
nished the crippling influence of these
factors. Discrimination has ceased being
a real issue. And things changed in
Poland.
The “Polish October” and the Hun-
garian Revolution of 1956 had a tre-
mendous effect on Australian Poles.
Polish athletes came to Melbourne for
the 1956 Olympic Games. They mixed
freely with Australians and the local
Poles and spoke Polish, not Russian.
They won gold medals, the Polish flag
unfurled on the mast and the Polish
National Anthem was played not the
“International”. The “Iron Curtain”, al-
most hermetically sealed in Stalin's days,
began falling apart. One could now visit
Poland if one wanted. And so the Aus-
tralian Poles embarked on their first wary
exploratory trips (as Australian citizens).
They discovered several basic truths.
Namely, that a great deal had changed
in Poland and that at least some changes
were for the better. Also, that whatever
happened they probably would not fit
in today’s Poland. Whoever ruled in
Warsaw, the clock could not be turned
back. And then that over the years that
passed so rapidly Australia had somehow
become their home.


Letters to the Editor
Teachers
SIR. Victoriana’s complaints (8.,
March 27) about the Victorian education
system are by no means restricted to
that State. In New South Wales, the
fact that teachers are public servants
first, and teachers second, is only too
painfully and tragically obvious. The
mediocre, teacher—a classification cover-
ing the vast majority—embodies all the
odious faults and narrow-mindedness of
the proverbial public servant. Not that
this is entirely the teacher’s fault. For
such a person should never have got past
the selection committee. The New South
Wales Education Department, however,
merely requires an applicant to matricu-
late, and to pass a medical examination
to ensure that he doesn’t have two heads
or some other equally obvious handicap.
To this is added nowadays, I believe, a
spelling test. And of course he has to say
that he wants to teach. No probe is
made into his personality, his tempera-
ment, or his character. After all, what
have these got to do with teaching?
The training of these people is equally
unimportant. The majority do one or
two years at a Teachers’ College either
after or instead of a university degree
studying a myriad of subjects, with the
constant emphasis on superficiality. Any
attempt at individuality, or at tackling a
problem in some depth, is frowned upon.
After all, the college students are first
and foremost learning to be good public
servants. Any joint spark of dedication
left in the odd teacher will be rapidly
dispelled as soon as he reaches his
approved school and takes his first class
in the weathershed because there’s no
room anywhere else. By the time he
has “taught” under these conditions,
patrolled the playground instead of eat-
ing lunch, and sandwiched a day of
“extra-curricular activities”, plus assorted
clerical work into his spare moments,
is it any wonder that he has come to
regard dedication as a dirty word? His
salary becomes a way of paying the rent,
and his teaching obligations are fulfilled
if his class remains quiet for eight periods
a day.
Indeed, he would be a fool to do
otherwise. As a public servant, he will
be promoted in due course, either when
the service expands, or those ahead of
him die. Meanwhile, unless he does
something incredibly stupid, he will
receive his annual increment, and can
spend his salary in complete security.
He is not, of course, so silly as to en-
courage creativity, or even individuality,
in his pupils. Such things always tend
to disrupt factory routine. The fact that
this means an enormous waste of poten-
tial is quite irrelevant. After a while he
will be so conditioned that it won’t worry
him. Education in New South Wales will
continue along this bumbling, inefficient
path until it is divorced from public
service, and front politics. Only then
will it be possible to give it the dignity
and professional status necessary to
attract teachers in the true sense of that
word.
“Once-Dedicated”
(Name supplied but withheld because of
NSW Public Service regulations)
SlR.—The department-orientated, non-
professional, reactionary Queensland
Teachers’ Union must remain one of the
greatest anti-educational forces in Aus-
tralia. Let me bring to your attention
the following facts:
(1) Every Queensland teacher has no
option but to join an industrial union.
(2) Officials are selected only from those
members who have paid union dues con-
secutively for three years before a pre-
scribed date (21st March). These office-
bearers are therefore not truly representa-
tive of the whole group. Is this demo-
cratic? (3) The present General Sec-
retary has been granted a permanent
appointment. (4) High school teachers
have only three branches out of forty-
two that represent their interests ex-
clusively. .
The policy of the union is therefore
one of fostered apathy. Very seldom
does discussion at branch meetings or
even at conference penetrate to basic
educational issues. Instead, we have a
squall of discussion on spelling lists,
sump pumps, school tanks, lined butcher,
paper or cardboard slates and so on.
The tone of the “Teachers’ Journal”,
the official organ itself, is definitely non-
professional, padded as it is with con-
ference agenda, legalistic trivia, salary
scales and definition of departmental
proclamation. For most teachers the
union is as dead as a dodo whose flight-
less wings will never take them to the
sky. It is there to get them pay-rises and
give them legal defence and for not much
else.
D. J. CLARK
Dalby (QIcl).
Satire
SlR.—There is satire and there is humor.
I would be very surprised if there was
anyone who could successfully master
both arts, because each demands an
entirely different outlook on the part of
the writer. No doubt in any kind of
“boom” a lot of shoddy material is going
to come on to the market, but it seems
a little unfair of Ross Campbell (8., April
24) to base his thesis that “satire is one of
the easier forms of humor” on the fact
that bad satire can be written very
easily. The humorist and the satirist are
as different as the nihilist and reformer.
Both find something odd in the world
around them. The humorist’s talent is to
reveal the incongruity of life. In a
sense, he is a nihilist, albeit a very
benign one. He does not want to change
the incongruity he finds around him; on
the contrary, he condones it because he
regards it as part of the charm of life.
The satirist also finds life odd and,
hence, funny. But for him the in-
congruity jars; it is a manifestation of
man’s achievements falling short of his
aspirations. The oddness he finds in
life both could be, and, he believes,
should be, changed. We are all aware
that in any argument the participants
tend to concentrate their attention on
the examples that are most consistent
with their own particular thesis. By the
same token, the humorist tends to dwell
on life’s more harmless incongruities and
the satirist on the more blatantly noxious.
Ross Campbell believes that to satirise
one merely needs to strike up a scoffing
attitude and —hey presto—instant satire 1
This unfortunately naive idea is probably
fortified by Mavis Bramston (or “Oz”,
for that matter) at its worst. However,
successful satire requires a painstaking
analysis of the way in which society falls
short of its own ideals.
This may seem a rather grandiose way
of describing the satirical approach and
obviously no individual writer con-
sciously goes through such a pretentious
mental ritual, but Mr Campbell can be
assured that acquiring such a point of
view is not as simple as he believes. On
an ABC programme recently, I made
some remarks about Australian humor
to which Mr Campbell refers. What
I w'as trying to say on that occasion
was that Australia lacks any significant
humor.
To become significant, I believe,
humor must rise above merely recount-
ing funny stories and incidents; it must
create truly comic characters, whose
humor depends on their universality.
RICHARD WALSH
Co-Editor, “Oz” Magazine
Sydney (NSW).
SIR.—I agree with Ross Campbell (8.,
April 24) that “actually one encounters
comical things all over the place” but
surely, rarely, if ever in Oxalis Cottage
on a Sunday.
ALAN FITZGERALD
Canberra (ACT).
The One Day
SlR.—lt’s laughable to think that “The
One Day of the Year” is to be produced
in France. The only thing it is notable
for are the number of times the great
Australian adjective runs through it.
I should have thought the French would
have had a gut full of that during two
wars. Otherwise the play is empty.
W. A. BLAKE
Auchenflower (Qld).
Lady C.
U her stone (Tas.)
Mrs J. H. DOUGLAS
SlR.—lsn’t Mr Fink’s remark that he
expects the lay person may be bored with
“The Trial of Lady Chatterley” (8.,
April 17) pessimistic? Surely he knows
many Australian housewives are fed up
to the neck with the awful pabulum of
“popular” weeklies. In common with
many other Tasmanians I found this
book refreshingly easy to read, and the
nuances of character and personality of
witnesses as revealed in their court
replies deeply interesting.


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Short for Professor
IN the raw environment of the under-
ground on the mines at Broken Hill
it is in the crib cuddies where the
miners eat that you find out whether
you are accepted or not. Pinned up in
the main crib cuddy on the 1900 level
at the New Broken Hill Consolidated
mine are samples of the work of local
miner-artist Kevin “Pro” Hart. In the
clearest terms, that means he’s accepted.
But not only is Pro Hart’s ability re-
cognised by the lusty but probing miners
he works with a third of a mile under-
ground but in the more significant world
of Australian art. Just as everyone in
Broken Hill knows this stocky miner,
his name is gaining a measure of fame
in the art world.
Hart is classed as a primitive, although
it can be seen from his work that he
has been inspired by Nolan, Drysdale,
Boyd and Tucker, even Picasso and
Dufy. He has nurtured his own down-
to-earth style, using his immediate sur-
roundings as the theme for most of his
work.
As a young boy living on his family’s
sheep property in the exqui-
site, semi-desolate bush 80
miles to the east of Broken
Hill, Hart would wander off
into the harsh kangaroo
country to sketch the wild
life and stark bush scenes.
This response to his early environment
shows out in his work.
By the time he was 14, his mates had
nicknamed him “Professor”, and the
name has stuck. He did not take up
art seriously until about ten years ago.
His work is all signed “Pro Hart” be-
cause he has become more used to the
nickname than his baptismal name.
“They began calling me Pro, short for
Professor, because I was always experi-
menting with something,” he said. “I
guess it was as a result of this desire
to experiment that I took up the brush.
The whole theory of painting, I think,
is to discover something. That’s what
I have been doing. I’ve found some-
thing, and now it is paying off. My
paintings sell almost as fast as I can
do them.”
At 35, Hart is the most prolific and
successful artist the Barrier has ever
produced. His only real tuition has
been several years with a Broken Hill
art teacher, May Harding. She taught
him about composition. What he knows
•—or doesn’t know —about color is his
own doing. He mixes his own paints
and sticks to basjc colors mainly.
His distinctive paintings have adorned
the walls of homes and hotels in the
Silver City for some years. But his real
discovery came in 1960 when Kym
Bonython of Adelaide visited the city
and became impressed with his work.
Bonython soon arranged a one-man show
in Adelaide. It was a complete sell-out.
Pro Hart has never looked back.
His shows these days, whether in Ade-
laide or Sydney, are invariably a sell-
out. Most of his paintings are sold
through either the Bonython or Barry
Stern Galleries. Some have gone to
overseas buyers. At a recent Adelaide
showing he sold all 34 paintings hung
on opening night for more than £lOOO.
“I couldn't tell you how many paint-
ings I have sold altogether,” he said.
“It’s a lot, though. I am not even sure
of the highest price I have ever got.
But they are selling for over a hundred
guineas.”
He has worked on the mines since
he went to live in Broken Hill after
leaving school. Now he drives an elec-
tric locomotive, hauling ore along the
subterranean drives, working three
shifts- —day, afternoon or night. In their
chiacking moods, the miners call on Pro
By BOB BOTTOM
Hart to knock out a quick sketch to
lampoon somebody. “The blokes take
it f in fun, although the other day one
chap reckoned he was going to sue me.”
With the consolidation of his success
in recent months, he is now toying with
the idea of pulling out from the mines
to devote his energies to art full-time
as a profession. His young, Broken
Hill-born wife, Raylee, is keen on it.
“I think it's a wonderful idea,” she said.
“It will be much better for Kevin. It’s
too much working on the mines and try-
ing to paint too.”
According to her, the advantage of
being an artist’s wife is that “your hus-
band is always home”. Only at weekends
does Hart go out, then only for a few
hours for a few middies with “the boys”
at the suburban Newmarket Hotel where
his own paintings decorate the bar. “I
might go through half a packet of
smokes while I’m drinking but I never
smoke while I paint.”
Neither he nor his wife have any illu-
sions about whether he could earn
enough from painting alone. It would
mean giving up a highly paid job which
includes a weekly lead bonus of
£l7 12s. 6d. They have two children,
John, 3, and Kym, 18 months.
Hart’s obvious affluence does not show
in his home or backyard studio. The
studio is but a rough corrugated iron
shed, illuminated by a single bare light
globe. Crudely painted white, the shed
is littered with paint tins and brushes,
with paintings, both his and those of
other artists he has bought, hanging
unimposingly on the walls or propped
against them.
The modest weatherboard home in
Chloride Street is likewise painted
crudely, the roof silver and the rest
mauve. But this is where he will stay
if he takes up art full-time.
“If I went to one of the capital cities,
I feel I would be influenced by too many
artists. Anyway, Broken Hill is a beaut
place for any artist. You get a terrific
lot of ideas here. Above all, you can
be yourself. I like to paint what I
want.”
Although it is said that his pictures
resemble those of no other artist, Hart
himself admits that he is probably in-
fluenced by other artists. “But I couldn't
say what influence they have had.”
He is gradually getting together a
collection of other artists’
work, already having ac-
quired some of Dobell’s,
Gleghorn’s, Whiteley’s, Dick-
erson’s and Perceval’s. He
goes more for sketches than
actual paintings. “I like good
paintings, but I have always felt that
sketches show your best work.”
In pride of place in his studio is a
huge abstract titled “The Martyrdom of
St Joan”, which Hart says was painted by
Gleghorn in Paris.
Other artists have purchased Hart’s
work, too. The Commonwealth Art
Advisory Board has also bought one,
“Man Washing”, and another titled
“War Talk” is to be featured on the
cover of a book,
Preoccupation with what he calls
“discovery” has plunged Hart into a
world of inventory, a prolific inventor
of an odd assortment of gadgets about
the home. Among his major inventions
have been several machine guns and
other weapons of war. Two machine
guns he made and patented were exa-
mined by the Army, but rejected. A
third he has just finished is his version
of a machine gun designed especially for
jungle warfare. This he plans to send
to defence authorities in England. He
has also invented a “bomb thrower” and
a “secret” rocket-style weapon for the
destruction of enemy communications
lines.
His most successful inventions have
been powerful telescopes for his own use


AUSTRALIAN
PRIMITIVES
BIRD STUDY NEAR MENINDEE. Pro Hart. 18in. x 23in.
THE RAID. Pro Hart. 18in. x 23½in. Collection Barry Stern Galleries.
THE FARM. Irvine Homer. 17in. x 21½in.
Collection Dr Basil Beirman.




• •
o
5-h
<u
a
W
X!
<3
<
O
Q
Pi
O
w
The new Ford Galaxie 500 is the finest expression of prestige,
plus value-for-money in a motor car, ever to come your way.
It’s all new from road to roof.
Almost 18 feet from stem to stern.
Nearly two tons of luxury, par
excellence.
As you relax in its spacious interior,
you will see around you appoint-
ments exceedingly rare, even for
cars in this class.
Behind the wheel you will experi-
ence breathtaking power from a
Super-Torque “Challenger” 200-
horsepower V 8 engine, harnessed to
the world’s finest automatic trans-
mission 3-speed Dual-Range
“Cruise-O-Matic” Drive.
The ride is one of the smoothest,
steadiest and quietest in the entire
motor car industry. The solidity
and strength of the new “Torquof price, that to appreciate it you
box” chassis construction must discover it for yourself. Why
immense. And, for your convepot do so now, at your Ford
ence, Galaxie 500 needs serviciDealer’s?
only twice a year, or each 60The new Ford Galaxie 500 offers
miles. Unique investment value. Standard
In so many ways the new Fosquipment includes: Power steering
Galaxie 500 offers so much more c|] Power brakes Q Deep-pile, fully-
than has been available, irrespectifattd carpets Q Luxurious “Deer-
hide” expanding type vinyl uphol-
steries □ Heater-demister □ Elec-
tric clock □ Fully-padded instru-
ment panel □ Windshield washers
□ Reversing lights □ Illuminated
glove-box and luggage boot
□Alternator □“Challenger” 200-hp
V 8 engine with “Cruise-O-Matic”
Dual-Range automatic transmission.
Price: £2,610 including sales tax.
A “Thunderbird Special” 280-horsepower
V 8 engine is optional, at extra cost.
Best year yet to go FORD!
FORD OF AUSTRALIA


M ' -L
KALCOLOR
changing the
architectural scene
Kalcolor is more than just another
anodising process. It is a new method
of imparting to aluminium, colours that
will never fade. No other architectural
anodic finish measures up to Kalcolor.
It provides complete uniformity and
reproducibility of colour, greater
corrosion and abrasion resistance than
ever before, as well as absolute
lightfastness. Kalcolor is available
in a range of classic architectural
colours exclusively from Comalco
and the sole licensed processor,
ALUMINIUM ANODISERS PTY. LTD.
The richness and beauty of
Kalcolor is evident on Sydney's
new Lasalle Building.
J. Connolly Limited used both sheet
and extrusions with a bronze Kalcolor
finish to obtain a perfect colour match.
WMJWW
ODIVWOD
j
Licensed trademark of Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corp.


in studying the stars. For one, he even
made his own lens, the result of end-
less hours of grinding. His latest tele-
scope, an impressive lOft-long affair
with a five-inch lens, is mounted in his
studio. It is believed to be more power-
ful than one used by the astronomical
society locally, which cost £2OOO.
Demonstrating its capacity in day-
light, Hart trained it on a piece of
ground 50-odd yards up the street.
Looking through it, you could clearly
see the ants scurrying about. He moves
the telescope out into the yard to view
the moon or Mars. “You can see where
they landed the rocket on the moon
with this,” he said. “The view of Mars
is terrific, too.”
He added rather definitely, “But this is
my last invention. I have been making
these things to take my mind off paint-
ing for a while, but I have found it
takes up too much time. It’s just paint-
ing from now on . . . and music. Music
will do me for relaxation.”
That brought us to his large cathedral-
type organ, powered by a half-horse-
power motor. He also has a piano. “I
like playing the classics, but every now
and then I try some of the modern stuff.
One of the neighbors wasn’t too pleased
the other night when we had a concert
and went on till three o’clock in the
.morning. After I’ve had a session on
the organ, I can go back to painting
with a fresh mind. I often get up early
in the morning and paint if I am on
day shift.”
He begrudges the hours needed to
sleep. At first glance he strikes you as
a man of great strength, both physical
and mental. He is a physical fitness
fanatic. Three days a week he goes
through a rigorous workout weight-
lifting in his backyard gymnasium. He
gave an impromptu display of how he
can lift 4001bs from a squatting position.
“I hope to be able to lift 5001bs soon,”
he said, as he heaved the dumb-bells
up.
“Artists must also eat well to work,”
he said. The home larder is stocked
with food to give the correct calories,
the cooking done to exact requirements.
His son, lohn, has already taken to
the brush. At two he won third prize in
a local competition with a picture that
looks like just a blotch of different
colored paints on a piece of cardboard.
Pro Hart has one doubt about be-
coming a professional artist. “I think
you paint your best when you are
doing it just because you want to. I
don’t think you can be really genuine
if you are painting just for money. But
money's money . . . you need it to
live.”
Depression Nostalgia
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Old Blue went Blind”, “The Reverend’s
Annual Visit”, “The Rabbitoe’s Daugh-
ter”, “The Stringer and his Yellow Dog”,
and “The Old Confiding Tree”,
_ . . - .
~( T hla. V s A he , A . ustr , ahan countr >;, and
M *. " hl " h Mr I ™ ne knew very well and
* hlch be reproduces ™ ll \ Painstaking
love. Almost all his work is done from
tIT A
memory. I can go out and look at a
/ , i . ll , ~ _
scene for hours and still not be able to
. x . A „ , ~ lt .. T , , , ,
P a ' nt “> ~h e sald ’ u . nt ‘ 1 Set back home
and f 5. “ ln mmd s .Ti- SU,I> he
above tampenng with his memory.
, caa - v 1 ere wer e °ts p ouses on
l he hIU above ! he . chur „ ch " be usa'd-
f?™* to a ,P a ! nt '"« °f a bush church,
but 1 “uldnt be bothered punting
them Y ° u do , n 1 have . to P a,nt ln
everything. If you re painting a woman
and s , he has pimples, you don t put the
pimp es in, do you.
Mr Irvine lived in the country as a
child and many of his paintings are of
the Willow Tree district in New South
Wales. He has lived in Sydney but
remains most at home in the country.
As a child and young man he was ex-
posed only to such artistic influences as
an occasional calendar from a pastoral
firm.
Homer Irvine lives in a simple,
white-painted weatherboard cot-
tage in a black lane of Morisset,
a small town between Sydney and New-
castle. The cottage has a few flowers in
the front garden with a few fowls
scratching among them, a cow nudging
the back fence, the Sanitarium Health
Food factory across the way. Beyond
is Wangi, where William Dobell has
lived and painted for many years.
The cottage may be something of an
anachronism in these rural days of decora-
tor colors, fibreglass overhangs, clothes
hoists and a shiny new car in a tumble-
down garage. It belongs to the period
which Homer Irvine creates so vividly
in his paintings— the Depression.
Mr Irvine’s countryside looks clean,
free from the debris with which a later
affluence has littered it. There are no
hoardings alongside the general store,
only the neat, tin signs for Rhu pills,
Vincent’s APC, or Goldenia tea, nailed
to tree trunks. There are few cars out-
side the bush church and no heaps of
rusting scrap metal by the roadsides.
His paintings have names weighted
with nostalgia, “When Mother Bought
our Mangle”, “The Missing Hogget”,
“The Shearer who said Grace”, “When
A bout of sickness about 15 years ago
left him dispirited and with more time on
his hands than he had ever had.
“I read in the ‘Women’s Weekly’ that
painting was good therapy,” he said. “So
I got hold of some paint and I did over
all the cupboards in the house. When
I had finished with the cupboards I
started in on the crockery. I painted
every plate in the house.”
Mr Irvine persisted with plates for
some time, sometimes having whole
dinner services on hire purchase to keep
up the supply. However, the designs
were never baked on and could be re-
moved, as they often were, with “a good
soaking in Rinso and hot water”. Mr
Irvine’s plates were among the pieces
shown at a retrospective exhibition at the
von Bertouch Galleries, Newcastle, earlier
this year. An early buyer was William
Dobell, who still comes across occasion-
ally to see Mr Irvine.
Mr Irvine then began experimenting
with hardboard, to which he has re-
mained faithful ever since.
Mr Irvine’s works first became known,
beyond a scattering of plates locally,
when a small exhibition was held at the
Newcastle Art Gallery in 1959. This
was organised by the director, Mr Gil.
Docking, one of the first people to
encourage Mr Irvine.
Homer Irvine is in artistic terms a
primitive, although it seems an odd
word to fit on such a lively and intelli-
gent man. As a painter he is entirely
untutored and is as remote from current
and past influences as would be possible
in Australia today.
However, when he had the retrospec-
tive exhibition at the von Bertouch Gal-
leries both Elwyn Lynn of “The Aus-
tralian” and Daniel. Thomas of the “Sun-
day Telegraph” saw resemblances to
Altdorfer in his work. “It’s funny that
both of them should have said that,”
Mr Irvine said. “I remember seeing a
painting of his in ‘Life’ magazine some
years ago. It may have influenced me
subconsciously.”
Even now most of Mr Irvine’s paint-
ings are owned by people from New-
castle or thereabouts. One was bought
by the Commonwealth Art Advisory
Board and is in the Australian Embassy
in Tokyo. Because of his continuing
ill-health output is limited and there is
a waiting list.
Another reason for the waiting list is
that Mr Irvine in the early days burned
any paintings which didn’t satisfy him.
He- still does. “You would have to be
a genius not to have constant failures,”
he said. “And if I have a failure I
reckon I’ve got the right to burn it. And
I reckon I’ve got the right not to have
any of my paintings in the house. Other
people can hang them on their walls if
they want to, but I don’t want any of
them near the place.”


v
J
<! // > K
m s t\
mm
$
N
3
Vi
V'.N
ant
vsvtn
\r
/t \ 14
A \
V' f
A>/\
! S
/
£
*■'3'
-
V
-v;;-
SB?
,''AA .A A A/ ) 1
»
. .'.4 : ;cwwa;v.”'” ;«<W
WW,»WW-M'«i.^WAV.^.
■A
,vV(<<^'WWW^VwvWW»
M*&
$ iroK
IT
IS “It's the C.8.A.! They say that
there is £250 for us and free if we
qualify for the Government Housing
Subsidy!
It's exciting!!!
You speak to them now and we’ll call
on the Manager tomorrow.”
* * * * * *
Yes, you, too —if you are under 36
years and hoping to set up a home
should apply for this bonus. So call
in on your nearest Commercial Bank
Manager for his advice and guidance.
He will be only too pleased to assist
you and will explain just what you
have to do.
Look for the C.B.A. sign.
C.B
A
BANK
you '
HAVE A
FRiEND AT
THE C.B.A j
CHEQUE & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS
THE CO
ERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
• ESTABLISHED 1866 • ASSETS EXCEED £300,000.000 • OVER 860 OFFICES AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND. LONDON
BSH/30


FILMS
The Spirit of Greece
Zorba the Greek. Director, Michael Cacoy-
annis. Embassy Theatre, Sydney.
Anthony Quinn’s performance in the
title role of this film is the finest thing
he has done. He is Zorba: the rough,
vital man who in his primitive way em-
bodies the spirit of ancient Greece—-
with his determination to savor every
experience, his instinct that though fate
may be inevitable he must meet it not
with resignation but with laughter and
defiance.
Cacoyannis’ film is based on a novel
by Kazantsakis which (in translation at
least) is rather rambling and verbose.
The film concentrates on the main nar-
rative while mercifully suppressing
Kasantsakis’ fairly obvious philosophical
discussions. Zorba forces himself as
companion upon a shy intellectual who,
from motives of cloudy philanthropy, is
going to reopen a derelict mine in Crete.
The venture ends in financial disaster,
but at least Zorba has taught the young
man that life is for living, not for read-
ing and dreaming about.
A simple enough theme, but the film
has much more—humor, violence, zest
for life and a loving but still clear-
headed view of life in the remoter parts
of Greece. Walter Lassally’s photo-
graphy (for which he won an Oscar)
would make anyone long to see the place.
Lila Kedrova’s funny, heart-breaking
performance as the ageing, stranded har-
lot has won her, too, a well-deserved
Academy Award. Alan Bates does a
fine job as the icebound intellectual who
reluctantly, triumphantly thaws into life.
This is one of the few modern films
that has warmly recorded the deeply
loving friendship, with no hint of homo-
sexuality, that can exist between men.
I shall long remember the final shot of
the two friends dancing and laughing
together beside the sea.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
RECORDINGS
Impulsive Beethoven
Beethoven: Fidelio, opera in two acts.
Birgit Nilsson, James McCracken and
others, with the Vienna Philharmonic
Orchestra, conducted by Lorin Maazel.
Decca META/SETA 272-3 (two-disc set).
Beethoven: Leonora Overtures Nos. 1,2, 3;
Fidelio Overture. Philharmonia Orches-
tra conducted by Otto Klemperer. Colum-
bia 330CX 1902 (mono), SAXO 2542
(stereo).
Britten: Albert Herring, comic opera in
three acts. Peter Pears, Sylvia Fisher and
others, with the English Chamber
Orchestra, conducted by Benjamin Brit-
ten. Decca META/SETA 274-6 (three-
disc set).
Beethoven's “Fidelio” is a work that I
have always regarded with more respect
than affection, and I doubt whether I
am alone in this, for the opera still has
a rather peripheral place on the stand-
ard repertoire, at least outside German-
speaking countries. Maazel’s briskly
theatrical interpretation may seem irre-
verent and superfluous salesmanship to
some; but many will find that it gives
the work a measure of operatic convic-
tion which, despite the power and nobility
of much of the music, the opera as a
whole often seems to lack.
Beethoven was seldom altogether
comfortable in writing for voices, and
in “Fidelio” his heroic conception of
the central theme of the story was at
odds with the comic-opera-like Sing-
spiel framework in which he was com-
pelled to work. It could be said that
he found his natural medium for telling
the story not in the opera itself, but in
the third of the four overtures he wrote
for it, “Leonora No. 3”. And wisely
he replaced this massive symphonic
poem with a simpler and more operatic
overture.
It is' instructive to compare Maazel’s
dashing and impulsive attack on the
“Fidelio” overture with Klemperer’s
measured and controlled reading. Klem-
perer’s version is far more impressive,
but Maazel’s approach may well be bet-
ter calculated to work up the pre-curtain
excitement in the setting of an opera
house.
Both these Beethoven recordings are
technically superb. Maazel has the co-
operation of one of those international
casts of almost unnerving brilliance which
recording companies seem able to
assemble at the drop of a cheque-book.
The indestructible Klemperer has in the
Philharmonia a perfect instrument for
his powerful and authoritative interpre-
tations.
“Albert Herring” reveals a younger
and more light-hearted Britten than that
of the recent Cello Symphony; it is his
only true comic opera. The story
comes from Maupassant’s “Le Rosier
de Madame Husson”, the tale about
a timid young man given a prize for
virtue, which brings about the undoing
of his virtue and the beginning of
his manhood. Britten’s librettist, Eric
Crozier, transferred the scene to a
Suffolk village and stocked it with
traditional English comic characters;
in the hands of anyone less universal in
his gifts than Britten it might have be-
come rather localised and “twee” in its
humor. Even Britten, I feel, made use of
some rather arch and Sullivanesque
touches of musical parody that he may
regret today, but these are never obtru-
sive enough to dilute the pungency,
humanity and robust good humor that
mark the whole work.
The performance, with an excellent
cast, was prepared and conducted by
Britten, presumably to his satisfaction,
certainly to the listener’s. The bright,
clear recording matches it.
MARTIN LONG
The Grand Duke
Daybreak Express. Duke Ellington. RCA
LPV-506.
The latest release in RCA’s excellent
Vintage Series is not only historically
important, but will give great listening
pleasure to all but the most biased. These
sixteen tracks are representative of the
Ellington orchestra from 1931 through
to 1934, an exciting period in its de-
velopment largely neglected on long-
playing records. The band, by this time,
was unmistakable in sound and charac-
ter, and capable, through its leader’s
extraordinary arranging talent, of a
greater range of expression than any jazz
group preceding it.
Forcing myself to be objective, it must
be admitted that some of the ensemble
scoring, particularly in the non-Ellington
tunes, has not stood the test of time,
while all the solo work retains its fresh-
ness and vitality.
On “Dinah” (although it is difficult to
judge how much is satirically intended),
there is some decidedly dated orchestra-
ting in the manner of the dance bands of
the era, even including one of those
“silver-masked tenor” vocals; on the
other hand, “Bugle Call Rag” and “Dear
Old Southland” are virtually trans-
formed into Ellington compositions.
TOM PICKERING
MUSIC
A Brilliant Ensemble
Borodin String Quartet. Town Hall,
Sydney.
Perfection is the only word to describe
the playing of the Borodin String Quartet
at the Sydney Town Hall last week.
The programme began with Prokofieff’s
second quartet, which I’d only heard
once before in Amsterdam some years
ago, in the form of a painful rehearsal
full of argument. The work seemed
then a highly involved intellectual effort
of quite “unjudgeable” quality.
The Borodins played it with only one
argument, no doubt a perfect settlement
between Prokofieff and themselves: a
caress of rhythm, fire and precision and
a revelation. Beethoven’s Quartet in C
Minor (No. 4 in his Op. 18) appeared in
a masterly accented form and a stormy
kind of tension I had not experienced
before. Is this what Beethoven meant
when he wrote that Haydn-Mozart-
flavored early piece? If not, he surely
would have revelled in hearing these four
masters playing it. Stravinsky’s Three
Pieces for String Quartet, played after
the interval, rolled from the little stage
in the centre of the hall with a clarity
which, for the first time, made them
tangible to me.
JACK KUNST


Mr Geismar, the distinguished American
critic, is the author of “Writers in Crisis’’,
“The Last of the Provincials” and “Rebels
and Ancestors”. This article is written
exclusively for THE BULLETIN.
AMERICAN BOOKS
A survey of contemporary
US writing
The Failure of the Moderns
POUND
AUCHINCLOSS
MAILER
WILLIAMS
BELLOW
By MAXWELL GEISMAR
Now the book reviews, the advertise-
ments, the national book awards
keep assuring us that that Ameri-
can literary scene of the mid-’sixties is
flourishing in both talent and achieve-
ment. According to some of our best
critical names and periodicals, we have
just had another masterpiece in Norman
Mailer’s “American Dream”. Just last
autumn we had still another masterpiece
■—and this one was widely acclaimed as
the masterpiece of masterpieces, and has
been a constant best seller —in Saul
Bellow’s “Herzog”. So that we have two
modern American masterpieces circula-
ting almost simultaneously.
Or do we? Well, last winter we had
another one, so-called, in John Cheever’s
“Wapshot Chronicle”, and also in John
Updike’s “Centaur”. Sometime before
that we had Phillip Roth’s novel, “Letting
Go”, and before that his glittering
volume of short stories called “Goodbye,
Columbus”. Along in here, too, we had,
and we hailed, and we celebrated, such
almost equally talented new writers as
Bernard Malamud, Harvey Swados, Hor-
tense Calisher —not even to mention last
year’s critical success and best seller by
an older writer, “The Group” by Mary
McCarthy. (And don’t forget that John
Steinbeck won the Nobel Prize in 1962;
although for what reason I haven’t
figured out.) And among our younger
Negro writers, who ideally should be just
classified as American writers, we have
had, and have well rewarded, such
talented figures as James Baldwin, Ralph
Ellison, and just recently John Killens.
And remember that this is only the
latest wave of new American literary
talent; and that since World War II we
have had three successive waves of new
writers, all talented, all highly heralded,
and all —. What? At times I think
they are almost all one writer —or inter-
changeable parts of the modern Ameri-
can hedonist—or the contemporary
American novelist who is so highly
talented, facile, popular in serious and
commercial circles alike, a master of
technique (as they all tend to be), always
on the edge of a real achievement, and
never quite making it! That is to say
all the writers I have listed here, and the
other groups which preceded them in
the 19505, are very competent craftsmen
who, for whatever reason —lack of con-
tent, lack of courage—have not yet pro-
duced, in my own mind, a significant
body of work in the last 25 years of
American culture. During this time we
have been, in short, always ballyhooing
mere talent and literary entertainment
instead of producing artists and art.
I see that in this list of modern Ameri-
can writers post World War II I have
completely omitted the name of J. D.
Salinger who, five years ago say, was
regarded as the prime talent of his period;
and whom I never considered as any-
thing more than a clever writer pretend-
ing to be a profound one. And later
on in this essay I will discuss a group
of less well-known writers, perhaps, but
as I think more serious ones; our literary
scene is not completely bereft and barren.
But meanwhile, as a critic and literary
historian who has been nourished by the
great names of our native tradition—
from Hawthorne and Melville and Whit-
man to Howells and Mark Twain and
Dreiser and Thomas Wolfe —the question
I have been pondering for the last
decade is simply this: What has happened
to our literature in the strictly contem-
porary period? And the answer, as
usual, is a complex of technical or liter-
ary elements set within a larger frame
of cultural and historical conditions.
For part of my trouble in reviewing
the present literary scene, of course, is
that my generation grew up under the
spell of Hemingway and Faulkner, Tom
Wolfe and Scott Fitzgerald, yes, 'and
even the early John Steinbeck of “In
Dubious Battle” and “The Grapes of
Wrath”. In those days we were reading,
we were absolutely spellbound by the
great figures in prose fiction and poetry
and criticism alike of both the ’twenties
and the ’thirties. That was the new age
of American writing; that was when the
Tig names of that epoch made our litera-
ture famous in the capitals of the world;
that, as we thought then, and as most
of our modern writers themselves
thought, was the start of the renaissance
of American culture in general. It was
only later, perhaps ten or more years
later, after I had traced back the modern
period to figures like Theodore Dreiser
and Sherwood Anderson and Stephen
Crane and also Ellen Glasgow, Willa
Cather and Edith Wharton—our three
great literary ladies: it was only then, so
belatedly, I began to perceive that those
1920 s and 1930 s were the peak and
climax, indeed, of a modern American
realism which had started well back in
the 1890 s.
The dawning, the new day, the hope
and promise of the ’twenties and ’thirties,
or that “coming of age”, as Van Wyck
Brooks then proclaimed it, was actually
a period of climax and dissolution in
terms of our literary tradition. And
everything about such figures as Heming-
way and the expatriated group known
as the “Lost Generation” proved this
fact to everybody but themselves. So
that in the purely technical area of the
craft of literature, our writers are now,


to be sure, wallowing around some-
what aimlessly in an aesthetic trough
or ebb; or the shallows which always
follow upon a period of artistic achieve-
ment. In literature as elsewhere we can’t
have a renaissance all the time; and
while writers often tend to be ignorant
consciously of the true nature of their
own time-spirit, their work almost always
reflects it.
Thus we might have expected a period
of rather aimless art after almost fifty
years of very exciting modern American
social realism. Where was the new direc-
tion not only in content but technique?
(I neglected to mention such a classic
work as John Dos Passos’ trilogy, “USA”,
as another example of what that earlier
generation accomplished in both . social
content and technical experimentation.)
But this crisis in our craft of writing
wasn’t helped either by the larger cultural
environment in the post World War II
North American scene. If a slump was
to be expected in our literature, the
atmosphere of the Cold War has further
repressed and deadened our whole intel-
lectual, spiritual and cultural heritage for
the last two decades. Ours is not a
fresh period, as I said in my “American
Moderns” in 1958, but then, how could it
be? “The social atmosphere was so
heavy, dense, oppressive. The aesthetic
air was so thin, pure and abstract.”
And, as I suggested in my most recent
book, no wonder that Henry James be-
came the presiding idol and symbol of
everything in the arts of our time which
was correct, conformist, conservative and
false. For James is at the'polar opposite
of the central American literary tradition;
of such earlier figures as those I listed
above from Melville to Dreiser and
Eugene O’Neill. He is even the polar
opposite of his own brother, William
James! Thus, in one sense, under these
historico-political conditions, this close
cultural atmosphere of tension, uncer-
tainty and fear, and this aesthetic nir-
vana, it is remarkable that the con-
temporary American novelists are able
to create as well as they do. And I am
not so much condemning these contem-
poraries for, after all, what their talents
and their temperaments oblige them to
do, as I am simply stating that they are
being over-valued, over-rated and over-
publicised as major writers when they
are mainlv minor ones. What my friend
Nelson Algren calls “small-book writers”,
and this older Chicago novelist also be-
lieves there are no “big-book writers”
presently at work in the USA.
Perhaps he himself, belonging in heart
to the generation of the late -thirties, has
been or still can be one exception. And
not to draw too bleak a picture entirely—
when I am merely attempting to correct
what I think is a false picture of the
contemporary American novel: What is
even more remarkable is the fact that
despite these adverse cultural and
aesthetic circumstances, we still have a
group of more serious and, as I think,
more powerful writers in the United
States today. I am thinking first of all,
of that remarkable “low-brow” novelist,
James Jones, who apparently has not yet
been spoiled or corrupted by all the
popular wealth and fame his books have
brought him. I thought that “From
Here to Eternity” was an entirely origi-
nal work when it was first published, far
superior to Norman Mailer's “The Naked
and the Dead"’; just as I think that Jones’
latest novel, “The Thin Red Line”, is
even better than his first novel. Next to
Jones I would rate his southern-born
army friend —and what an odd couple
they are!—William Styron, the sensitive
and tormented author of two good novels
and a beautiful novella called “The Long
March”.
A stranger talent than either of these,
and perhaps potentially a bigger one, is
a kind of Texas Balzac named John
Howard Griffin. Author of two extra-
ordinary novels, “The Devil Rides Out-
side” and”“Nuni”, Griffin has just lately
produced an impassioned documentary
on the southern race question, “Black
Like Me”, which has, in turn, been
produced as a movie. Yes, novelists,
thank God, continue to behave like
novelists, and to be involved with every
aspect of the human condition: while
critics, I suppose, continue to behave
like critics—and professors of literature
are even worse. Things are not entirely
desperate in the American literary scene
of the mid-’sixties; it is just that I don't
think they are as glowing as they should
be, or as they are reported to be. If
Henry James is really the secret weapon
of our free Western culture . . . But let
it drop!
A Cleric’s Paradox
The Rector of Justin. Louis Auchincloss.
Gollencz. 265. 6d.
The Indifferent Children. Louis Auchincloss.
Prentice-Hall. 545. 6d.
“The Rector of Justin” depicts a para-
doxical figure but a fictional one, seen
through fragmentary bits and pieces
related by his acquaintances. Was the
Reverend Francis Prescott a great man
or an evil one or neither? We see the
Rector as we are seen by one another,
briefly reflected in the distorting mirrors
of other people’s eyes. Ours is, after all,
an age obsessed with the discovery of
identity: GLinter Grass makes Oscar in
“The Tin Drum” regularly cut up his
own photographs and piece them together
again in different ways; and Auchincloss
cuts up Frank Prescott and leaves the
reader to piece him together as he
wishes.
The Rector makes his first entrance as
the octogenarian headmaster of Justin
Martyr, an Episcopal boys’ school in
Boston, in blue opera cape with velvet
collar and ebony stick, bull-headed,
square-necked and magnificently photo-
genic. It is 1939 and he is greeting
Brian Aspinwall, the new English teacher,
with the words, “Have you been assigned
a football team?” He does not discuss
the subject he has come to coach. Brian
begins to keep a diary, which is domi-
nated by the Rector, and goes on to
collect material for a biography which
he obtains from Prescott’s oldest friend,
from ex-pupils and from his third
daughter, Cordelia. It is this material
that forms the novel.
Not unexpectedly, Cordelia sees Lear-
like proportions in her “Pa” and tries to
seduce Brian while relating her impres-
sions. His best friend tells how the Rec-
tor once lost his faith and then regained
it, but was this genuine or merely con-
venient? He also tells how he influenced
Prescott to break off his engagement to
a woman who would have made an un-
suitable headmistress. One pupil has left
written evidence that an unfair- action
of the Rector's has resulted in his suicide,
yet did the Rector mean it to be unfair?
For many others he always remains on a
plane with God Himself and to the
scholastic world he is a great and suc-
cessful headmaster. He is exceedingly
kind to Brian but is this just because the
young man can be useful to him?
Which of the personalities in this
portrait-gallery is the true man: Frank
the young muscleman, Frank the friend-
of-all, Francis the devout. Prescott the
ham, or which of the many others we
are shown? The unbelievably pure
Brian, who has meanwhile with Pres-
cott's help taken Holy Orders and at the
end of the book sits before his blank
pages about to embark on the biography
proper, will almost certainly find him
blameless. This reviewer, after weigh-
ing the evidence, does not. However,
here it is necessary to admit to a special
repugnance for many aspects of the
English Public School system upon which
Justin Martyr has been modelled, and
therefore to the character of a man who
has made the foundation of such an in-
stitution his life’s work. The playing-
fields of Justin Martyr have sent many a
boy to his own Waterloo and towards
the end the Rector seems to have become
aware that somewhere he has failed.
Almost 20 years separate “The Rector
of Justin” from Louis Auchincloss’s first
novel, “The Indifferent Children'’, just
re-issued. With hindsight, it is easy to
see why the author suffered an attack of
cold feet just before the original publi-
cation and changed his name to “Andrew
Lee” in expectation of a failure. His
hero, Beverly Stregelinus, a social butter-
fly flitting from party to party, had re-
fused to toe the neat line he had laid
down for him. He was to have been an
ineffectual, absurd young man who dis-
covers his own faults through seeing


HARPER & ROW BOOKS
‘WHERE THE WIL'D THINGS ARE'
It’s like this,cat )
by c
0^
•S'*
m
W'T
Hi
i#
*a»
fflfiiV
* Winners of the U.S. Newbery and
Caldecott Medals
A vailahle from your local booksellers.
Contact ns for any information regarding
the following publishers: —
• ACADEMIC PRESS, INC.
® AMERICAN BOOK COMPANY
• W. A. BENJAMIN, INC.
• BLAISDELL PUBLISHING CO.
® J. & A. CHURCHILL LTD.
• W. H. FREEMAN & CO.
(for "Scientific American" offprints)
® HOLDEN-DAY INC.
® HARPER & ROW
• RAND McNALLY & CO.
(Educational Division)
® RANDOM HOUSE
• ALFRED A. KNOPF
WALLACE-HADLOW
AND ASSOCIATES
P.O. BOX 54, MILSONS PT., N.S.W.
Telephone: 92 7770
those of his fellow bureaucrats while
serving as a lieutenant in the United
States Navy in Panama in World War 11,
and was thus to reform himself.
However, the Beverlys of this world can
never be made to see their own absurdity
(either in real life or on paper) and in
despair the author had to call in a
dens ex machina in the form of a buzz-
bomb to dispose of the recalcitrant char-
acter while he is waiting at a bus-stop in
London. Only his identity disc survives
the blast. Yet the book was a success,
not so much despite this but, one feels,
because of it. The senseless end was a
fitting finish to the senselessness of all
life’s “Indifferent Children”.
The best thing in it is the court
martial where Beverly defends an officer
he does not like and does not need to
help and then cuts him after he has won;
it has a Melvillean touch to it. Other-
wise, the story is rather garrulous in
parts. “The Rector of Justin” has twice
as much to say and says it more
succinctly.
MARIA WOLKOWSKY
New York Comment
NORMAN MAILER'S COMEBACK
An American Dream. Norman Mailer.
Dial Press. $4.95.
“An American Dream” is a remark-
able book, a novel in many ways as
good as “The Deer Park”, and “The
Deer Park” is in many ways a per-
fect novel.
“An American Dream” is about a
New York celebrity. War hero, Con-
gressman, husband to an heiress, pro-
fessor of existential philosophy, tele-
vision personality, celebrity. That is
Stephen Rojack, whom we meet on
the edge of something. “I was
approaching my forty-fourth year,” he
explains, “but for the first time I knew
why some of my friends, and so many
of the women I had thought I under-
stood, could not bear to be alone at
night.” In the thirty-some hours
which follow he feels the pull of sui-
cide, murders his wife, meets and falls
in love with a singer named Cherry,
witnesses Cherry's violent death,
stands off the police, faces his father-
in-law in the Waldorf Towers, dis-
covers facts too dark to remember,
and in the last few pages heads west,
to Las Vegas, where “the sky was
dark, the streets were light, the heat
was a phenomenon.” In the 110°
night he walks out alone on to the
desert and makes a deranged .call to
the dead from a roadside telephone
with a rusty dial. (A roadside tele-
phone booth, the night, the heat.
Imagine it: a glass booth, with a light
that goes on when the door closes,
the only light on that desert road.
Did Rojack close the door? He does
not say. Just that he dialed, and
asked for Cherry. That telephone
booth alone is worth the whole of a
couple of dozen of Mailer’s contem-
poraries; it is distinctly the real thing.)
He thinks he might make the call
again, “but in the morning I was
something like sane again, and packed
the car and started on the long trip
to Guatemala and Yucatan.”
There it is. Detectives, columnists,
the Waldorf Towers, gangsters, charity
balls, The Big Guy, Harvard, the CIA,
the Kennedys, Mrs Roosevelt, the
Cardinal, Harlem, East River duplexes
with flocked wallpaper, women with
names like Deborah Caughlin Man-
garavidi Kelly. Sirens in the night,
high places where the fix is in. Vio-
lence, the public memory of which
fades with the next edition. New
York. “An American Dream” is a
“New York” novel, perhaps the only
serious New York novel since “The
Great Gatsby”. Other novels are set
in New York, other novels are about
Central Park West dentists who hap-
pen to live in New York; “An Ameri-
can Dream” is about New York, and
Mailer is the first real novelist in a
long time to perceive the obvious, to
understand what legions of cheap
writers and Walter Winchell have
always known: that the essence of
New York is celebrity, and that its
true genius is tabloid melodrama.
In fact it is Fitzgerald whom
Mailer most resembles. They share
that instinct for the essence of things,
that great social eye. It is not the
eye for the brand name, not at all
the eye of a Mary McCarthy or a
Philip Roth; it is rather some fascina-
tion with the heart of the structure,
some deep feeling for the mysteries of
power. For both Mailer and Fitz-
gerald, as for the tellers of fairy tales,
there remains something sexual about
money, some sense in which the
princess and the gold are inextricably
one. In Deborah Caughlin Mangara-
vidi Kelly, Rojack sees “a vision of
treasure, far-off blood, and fear”.
Sergius, in “The Deer Park”, thinks to
linger awhile in Palm Springs, amid
“the'bright green foliage of its love
and its money”. One thinks of Daisy,
whose voice was full of money. And
Deborah herself: is she not, like
Nicole Diver, a woman for whose
sake “trains began their run at Chi-
cago and traversed the round belly
of the continent to California”?
Fitzgerald was “frivolous”, and
Mailer is “superstitious”. Philip Rahv
has spoken for the rationalist estab-
lishment: “An American Dream”
lacks “verisimilitude”. Rojack “hears
voices”. His suicidal thoughts seem
induced by the moon, and “appear to
have nothing to do with guilt-feelings
or remorse”. Mailer is entangled
with “the hocus-pocus of power”.
Had Mailer not been so “entangled”
he might have sent Stephen Rojack
not to that telephone booth on the
desert (not a “credible experience”,
Rahv chides) but to a good Morning-
side Heights analyst. Had Fitzgerald
not been so “frivolous” he might have
gone not to Hollywood but to Spain,
and written “For Whom the Bell
Tolls”. If only/ Mailer thought to
preface “The Deer Park” with this
line from Gide: “Please do not under-
stand me too quickly.” There seems
little danger of that, and the loss is
entirely ours.
JOAN DIDION
(Mr Mailer’s novel will shortly be
available here from Hutchinson.)


THE COLOR SLIDE PROGRAMME
OF ART ENJOYMENT
presents a new idea in art book publishing, with 24
color slides taking the place of conventional color
reproductions. Now you can see the art masterpieces
of the world in their most brilliant form.
Each volume in the series covers one particular period
in the history of art, with the background of the period
described by a recognised authority. The art forms
of the time are portrayed and typical works of the
most important artists discussed. Accompanying the
text are large, clear, black-and-white illustrations, in
addition to the twenty-four color slides which are
filed in transparent envelopes at the front and back of
each volume.
The Color Slide Programme of Art Enjoyment is a
continuing series of volumes which will encompass all
major periods of the world’s art. Volumes already
published and available are:
Early Italian Painting
Italian Painting of the High Renaissance
Baroque Art in Italy
Early Flemish Painting
Dutch Painting of the 17th Century
Impressionist Painting
Post-Impressionist Painting
German Painting The Old Masters
American Painting —1560-1913
Volumes now in preparation:
Early Renaissance: Fifteenth Century Italian
Painting
Spanish Painting: The Golden Century
Volumes complete with 24 color slides cost only 945. each and are available from your local bookseller.
If you have any difficulty in obtaining these books, please write to:
McGRAW-HILL AUSTRALIA,
231 Pacific Highway,
North Sydney, N.S.W. Telephone: 92 5922.
Saul Bellow’s Victims
Herzog. Saul Bellow. Weidenfeld and
Nicolson. 265. 6d.
Like the great Jewish comedians —-
Benny, Kaye, Harpo, and the rest —
Saul Bellow knows in his bones that the
put-upon people of the world raise the
best laughter. His characters are nearly
always victims, helplessly shuffled from
one disastrous situation to another,
spineless nothings in a world which
punishes them continually. They
escape from their predicament —in
travel, writing letters, dreams—but they
still draw disaster in their wake. The
author’s attitude to these creatures —he
has often been mistaken for them,
accused of writing a six-novel autobio-
graphy—is mainly one of wry delight
and concern. Whether the delight and
concern can be shared is a matter of
temperament: the active and direct will
be maddened, the supine will identify
to the hilt.
In “Dangling Man” (1944), Bellow’s
central figure was a young Chicagoan,
called for the draft, his job surrendered,
but held up from induction by a tech-
nicality. For a year he is condemned
to a leisure he can do nothing with;
finally, he greets the dreaded drafting
with a sigh of relief. In “The Adven-
tures of Augie March”, a Jewish cross-
breed of Tom Jones and Huckleberry
Finn, wanders through picaresque adven-
tures in America and Mexico; in “Hen-
derson the Rain King” a Chicago mil-
lionaire without a brain in his head
tr j es t 0 fi nt j redemption in the African
junsle: in this novel at least Bellow
se emed to be breaking out of the egg-
prison of his heroes’ brittle torment
j nto a mG re vital, more dynamic milieu.
g ut “Herzog” he has reverted to
introspection, near-madness, and despair;
t 0 the portrait a man so destitute of
and virility, so sickening.y self-
pity,ng ’ as t 0 in Unate r m '
Whether he knows it or not, Bellow
as created in the person of his cuckold-
cd ex-academic a figure countless
American intellectuals, academic or not,
will be able to recognise and identify
with; this seems to me at least in part
to explain the enormous success accorded
to the novel. Moses Herzog is hard
put to it to take any physical action of
any kind, to strike out boldly in any
direction to solve his own emotional
problems. He wanders on in intermin-
able abstractions, too intelligent by half
to cope with life. He complains, writes
letters to celebrities, tries to bolster up
his courage, but always falls back into
diffidence, drab gloom, and exhaustion.
How many, talking to American intel-
lectuals at parties or elsewhere, hear-
ing the thin, reedy voices, seeing the sus-
picious or vain cock of a beard or the
shadows of sleeplessness on the edgy,
nervous faces, have glimpsed a life like
Herzog’s, a jittery crushed helplessness
in the face of dynamic experience? And
Herzog’s worst weakness is that even the
retailing of his misery gives no plea-
sure: “He had no right to tell, to inflict
it . . . his craving for confirmation, for
help, for justification was useless.”
Herzog, we learn early in the story,
has been expelled from his home by his
wife> the J, and vindictive Madeleine,
and her lover, the ex-disc jockey Valen-
tine Gersbach (both of these characters
remain—and I think this a serious fault
only hazily adumbrated). Behind
him lies a divorce and a life that has
from beginning to end been a miserable
flop; now middle-aged, he is obsessed
with his progressive physical decline,
Through most of the book—which takes
place during five feverish, empty days
of his 48th year—Herzog is remember-
ing the past, in a Bloom-like memory-
flow of people and places, marked by
almost uninterrupted tension and suffer-
ing. And the letters pour out: to Martin
Luther King, Nietsche, Eisenhower, his
aunt, brother, dead mother and others,
That, really, is the whole how
Herzog writes and writes and suffers,
and the cruel world (personified Mr
Bellow does not cheat —by the Jewish


COLLI ER-MACMILLAN
INTERNATIONAL
THE PAGEANT OF
LITERATURE
THE BEGINNINGS OF AMERICAN
LITERATURE. Sister Ann Carol.
10s. 9d.
THE GROWING YEARS OF AMERI-
CAN LITERATURE. Sister Mary
Adolorata, O.S.M. 11s. 9d.
MODERN AMERICAN PROSE.
Brother Antony Cyril. 11s. 9d.
MODERN AMERICAN POETRY.
Brother Thomas Corbett, 7s. 6d.
MODERN AMERICAN DRAMA.
Brother Antony Cyril. 11s. 9d.
RECOMMENDED FOR GRADES 10 OR 11
Basic Four-Year Literature Programme in
Paperback.
AVAILABLE FROM ALL BOOKSTORES
pair who cuckold him) laughs and laughs.
Even when Herzog goes out to shoot his
wife, his failure to kill her and her lover
does not seem to be inspired by common-
sense, the preference of humiliated life
to punishment and death, but to be
caused by a failure of nerve.
The story of Mr Bellow's novel is
clearly one that should evoke in us
sympathy. Novels about the defence-
less ones of the world are apt to cause
pain; by means of that pain we should
be able to see more clearly into the
nature of oppression. But, for me at
least, Herzog alienates that sympathy,
that sense of his pain, from the start.
I found him insufferable: he fights
against his weaknesses so limply, he is
such a whiner. And one feels that Mr
Bellow feels for that whining; that he
cannot see how boring and nauseating
it is.
The book is nearly all style, the style
of Herzog, of an academic about to
embark on a volume of criticism as
grimly uninviting as that kind of univer-
sity text which would spend 800 pages
discussing the use of semi-colons in Wal-
lace Stevens. A style verbose, preten-
tious, windy, abstract, intolerably pre-
cious and sentimental. It all, to my
mind, represents the least attractive side
of the Jewish genius: I prefer the sharp,
bitter, penetrating side, seen at its most
striking in such wildly different figures
at Kurt Weill and Groucho Marx. The
sad, sentimental, treacly side I have never
cared for; and I would say that Herzog
and Bellow (for, in this book, it is hard
to separate the two) exemplify the
heaviest aspect of that humor and dis-
tress.
“Herzog” has been an enormously
successful book, and one can’t doubt
that for a multitude of middle-aged
readers its descriptions of a man watch-
ing himself go physically and spiritually
to seed will strike uncomfortably home.
For my part, I shall turn with relief to
the precise elegance of an Isherwood or
a Waugh or a Montherlant: to clean
writing, hard thinking, pitiless truthful-
ness and love of life.
CHARLES HIGHAM
America’s Stage
ihe Theatre in Our Times. John Gassner.
Crown Publishers. 345. 6d.
Best American Plays. Fifth Series, 1958-
1963. Edited by John Gassner. Crown
Publishers. 745. 9d.
Lost Plays of Eugene O’Neill. Citadel Press.
17s. 6d.
Tennessee Williams: Rebellious Puritan.
Nancy M. Tischler. Citadel Press. 575. 6d.
John Gassner has a lifetime of wide
experience of the drama and the theatre,
as university teacher, New York drama-
tic critic and producer of plays. In
'The Theatre in Our Times”, which
covers the first half of this century, he
discusses the major dramatists and the
major movements and issues in the
drama and the theatre with liveliness,
learning and sense.
Although Gassner firmly maintains
that the stature of the drama has not
equalled that of the novel in the twen-
tieth century, he also insists on the live-
liness of experiment in the drama and in
the theatre during the period. However,
in his introduction to this collection of
essays, which was published in 1954
(this is the paperback edition), he writes
pessimistically about the prospects for
drama in the second half of the century.
Fortunately he was wrong, for a new
liveliness was about to manifest itself in
the ’fifties.
However, in his introduction to “Best
American Plays, 1958-1963”, Gassner is
still gloomy. He hails Edward Albee as
the only bright hope in an otherwise dark
period and contrasts the mild disappro-
vals of most of the dramatists represented
in this collection with the passionate pro-
tests of the European dramatists. It
would seem that the powerful realism
which characterised the American drama
in the first half of the twentieth century
has spent itself for the moment.
It is true that many of the seventeen
plays in this collection belong in. or
have leanings towards, the middlebrow
theatre. Albee’s “Who’s Afraid of Vir-
ginia Woolf?'’ and Williams' “Orpheus
Descending” are the only two which cer-
tainly escape this category. Unlike Gass-
ner, I have doubts about Williams’ other
play “The Night of the Iguana” and also
about O’Neill’s posthumously published
“A Touch of the Poet”.
Also a result of posthumous piety, the
five “Lost Plays” of Eugene O’Neill will
be of interest mainly to students. They
come from the “trunkful” which O’Neill
brought with him to Provincetown in
1916, where “Bound East for Cardiff”
was produced by the Provincetown
Players.
Perhaps young dramatists mights be
encouraged to find how stilted and con-
ventional O'Neill's first efforts were. But
he improved fast, as two of these plays
show. The humor and realism of “The
Movie Man” and the power and imagina-
tion of “The Sniper” already give pro-
mise of the future.
Nancy M. Tischler’s book on Tennes-
see Williams is a rather watery mixture:
neither full-bodied criticism, nor full-
bodied biography. It intersperses infor-
mation about the life of the dramatist
with lengthy descriptions of the plots of
his plays. The blurb gives early warn-
ing: “This penetrating new appraisal of
America's leading playwright examines
his major plays, films and stories and
probes their psychological origins in his
own life.” But most of us would rather
do our own psychoanalysis. What we
want from the biographer is plenty of
source material—facts, dates, letters, in-
formation from friends. It is difficult,
of course, in the case of Tennessee Wil-
liams who is both unusually reticent and
still alive.
However, this is the first biography of
Williams to be published, and it is useful
for the facts it does contain. It includes
an index and bibliography.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
Miller’s Exorcism
After the Fall. Arthur Miller. Seeker and
Warburg. 265. 6d.
While scientists reach for the stars,
more and more humanists seem deter-
mined to explore the depths of Inner
Space. Poets, novelists, and lately play-
wrights have joined the Introspectives,
but it is strange to find Arthur Miller
among them. Fortunately the circum-
stances suggest a short visit.
In “After the Fall" he sets the action
within the mind of a Jewish lawyer of
40 or so, whose second wife was in some
ways similar to the second Mrs Miller,
the late Marilyn Monroe. That raised a
storm, but on the evidence the stage play
failed mostly because the mind it ex-
plored is occcupied with unenchanting
thoughts.
Quentin, the alter ego in “After the
Fall”, begins on a dull note when he
addresses a Listener just beyond the edge
of the stage with the words, “Actually,


NEW AMERICAN BOOKS
SUGGESTIONS FOR MOTHER'S DAY
McCALL'S COOK BOOK Price 69/-
Beautifully illustrated, complete step-by-step
cooking and serving guide avcrHable in red,
blue and green jackets to match your kitchen.
VOGUE BOOK OF MENUS
AND RECIPES Price 79/9
For entertaining at home compiled by the
Editors of Vogue.
THE ART OF CARVING Price 45/6
The first book devoted entirely to the Art of
Carving. Prepared by the Editors of House
and Garden.
BONSAI A SUNSET
BOOK Price 22/6
Illustrated guide to the culture and care of
MINIATURE TREES.
AVAILABLE ALL BOOKSELLERS.
Sole distributors in Australia:
DAVIS PUBLICATIONS PTY. LIMITED
250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
INDONESIA
By J. D. LEGGE, Professor of History,
Monash University, Melbourne.
Explores the background of our turbulent
neighbor, and describes the internal conflicts
affecting her political development under
Sukarno's "guided democracy".
A SPECTRUM paperback. 225.
PRENTICE-HALL OF
AUSTRALIA, PTY. LTD.
72 Darlington Road, Darlington,
Sydney.
I called you on the spur of the moment
this morning; I have a bit of a decision
to make”.
The “bit of a decision” is whether
Quentin, a two-time loser in marriage and
so disillusioned that “all that remained
was the endless argument with oneself . .
this pointless litigation of existence before
an empty bench”, should risk marrying
a third time. During the remainder of
Act 1 he wanders about a set which
represents his own mind, peopled by
characters who have been important to
him, litigating for all he’s worth.
The characters include his father and
mother, two brothers, his first wife
Louise, a professor and former Red
named Lou who jumps under a train
before Quentin can, reluctantly, defend
him before the Senate Committee; and
sundry women named Elsie, Felice,
Maggie and Holga. As an example of
troubled metropolitan man, or even
troubled American Jewish man, Quentin
has average doubts, fears and guilts,
rising above them only when he con-
siders his feelings about the ruined Ger-
man concentration camp tower which
dominates the set.
Perhaps the strength of the play lies in
its portraits of two women, Maggie and
Holga, Quentin’s second and third wives.
Maggie loved all the world physically
and hated it mentally. She is most of
Act 2 of “After the Fall”, a terrible
portrait of a woman with a flawed per-
sonality who has gained everything and
lost all but her death wish. This kind
of glowing neurotic has been explored
before, notably in Paddy Chayefsky’s
“The Goddess”. Miller's" version, with
its gruesome detail, was considered to
have profit motives, but it is more likely
an act of exorcism.
Holga, whom Quentin decides to love,
“after the Fall, after many, many deaths”,
is a woman who has survived the hor-
rors of her time, who has looked on her
idiot child, Life, and “bent to its broken
face, and kissed it”. She is calm, self-
contained, non-innocent, undemanding,
the kind of wife who would help not
hinder such a man as Quentin. What
remains beyond the play is how right
Quentin may be in expressing his doubts
with, “1 loved them all, all! And gave
them willing to failure and death that
I might live, as they gave me and gave
each other, with a word, a look, a trick,
a truth, a lie—and' all in love! But
what will defend her?”
Let us trust that his answer, “This
woman hopes!” is enough, and that
“After the Fall” is Miller's first and last
self-exploration. It is masterly in con-
cept, in the handling of so many flittingly
recollected characters, and in most of its
less emotional dialogue. If the play-
wright has survived the Fall, and laid
his ghosts, he should be able to move
back into the mainstream
FRANK ROBERTS
Pound’s Search
Ezra Pound. A collection of critical essays
edited by Walter Sutton. 225.
O’Neill. A collection of critical essays edi-
ted by John Gassner. 225.
Twentieth Century Views. Spectrum paper-
backs. Prentice-Hall. 225. each.
When Ezra Pound left America for
Europe in 1908, he left a country where
there was no one writing poetry of any
use to a beginner. So claimed T. S. Eliot
in his essay on in Walter
Sutton’s collection. To get his culture
Pound, aged twenty-three, went first to
Italy and then to England, where he lived
for twelve years. Although again, accord-
ing to Eliot, there was nobody writing
poetry in England of any use to a begin-
ner in that first decade and a half of the
twentieth century.
But though Pound may have gone tc
Europe for an environment congenial to
his own development, his presence in
Europe provided an environment con-
genial to others. He was continually
active both in writing his own work and
also in helping other poets publish; it is
now a matter of course that poetry
appearing in New York should be given
as much attention as that appearing in
London—yet this is largely due to what
Pound achieved for the recognition of
American poetry between 1910 and 1920.
For all his lifetime of exile, for all his
adoption, of Italy as his home, Pound has
always been working towards what he
called in a letter to John Crowe Ransom
in 1938 “a revival of American culture
considering it as something specifically
grown from the nucleus of the Ameri-
can founders . . .” Roy Harvey Pearce
has interestingly traced Pound's attitudes
towards Whitman: “He is America . . .
He is disgusting . . .” Pound wrote in
1908. Yet he recognised the common
ground between himself and Whitman,
recording it in his poem “A Pact” —“we
have one sap and one root”. And Pro-
fessor Pearce has indicated that despite
the obvious differences between the two
poets, both were trying to create the
American Epic.
To begin discussing Pound by introdu-
cing Eliot is inevitable. There is an
obvious parallel in the decisions of these
two American-born poets to leave their
country and absorb a European culture
—but there is also the personal associa-
tion that Eliot acknowledges. Pound en-
couraged Eliot, arranged the publication
of Eliot’s first hook, and read the first
manuscript of “The Waste Land”—to
cut it by half, the form in which we now
have it. “The Waste Land” is dedicated
to Pound— il miglior fabbro , the better
craftsman —and the relationship of the
two poets will no doubt become a much
worked over episode of literary history.
Because it is not a simple relationship;
as Eliot’s reputation grew, he repaid his
debt to Pound by publishing Pound’s
work (“a castrated edition of my poems”
wrote Pound), publicising him, writing
introductions to his poetry and essays.
George P. Elliott, indeed, seems to view
it all as undemocratic: “The episode
epitomizing Eliot’s overpowering dicta-
tion in Pound matters is the famous
Bollingen Award in 1949.”
Indeed, Pound became another stick
with which to beat Eliot. “I think,” Dr
Leavis suggested, “that Mr Eliot did
Pound and criticism an ill-service when
he threw out that tip about the superior-
ity of the Cantos and their great techni-
cal value.” Certainly Eliot seemed to
upset some of the less flexible critics by
saying he was interested in the way
Pound said things, not in what he had
to say. And that certainly evades the
problem of Pound’s fascism.
But of course Pound is superbly
accomplished in ways of saying things.
His early poetry is in the manner of
the ’9os, and beautifully so; and he
acquired different manners, different
voices—Swinburne, Browning, Waller,
Spenser, Whitman, Yeats; he didn't re-
strict his reading to English language
poets —there are his translations of
Anglo-Saxon of the Provencal poets, of
Latin, Chinese. His scholarship may not
always be accurate; but as J. P. Sullivan,


New Books front John Wiley and the M.I. T. Press
DOSTOEVSKY: THE MAJOR FICTION
By Edward Wasiolek, Professor of Russian and Comparative
Literature at the University of Chicago.
This book offers a critical reading of all of Dostoevsky’s major
fiction. Appended is a check list of important biographical
data, and an extensive bibliography.
M.I.T. Press. 255 pages. 79/6.
KHRUSHCHEV AND THE ARTS
The Politics of Soviet Culture, 1962-1964, by Priscilla John-
son and Leopold Labedz.
In 1962 Khrushchev declared war on the “new wave” of
Soviet artists. In a vivid study of the intellectual and artistic
ferment in Russia today, the authors examine the course of
this political-cultural campaign and explain why it faltered.
Extensively documented.
M.I.T. Press. 300 pages. 75/-.
THE RISE OF POLITICAL ANTI-SEMITISM IN
GERMANY AND AUSTRIA
By P. G. J. Pulzer, Oxford University.
This is the first book to elucidate the actual beginning of
the long road to Auschwitz. Dr. Pulzer traces the rise of anti-
semitism in Germany and Austria during the latter part of
the 19th century and traces its growth through the First
World War. In an epilogue, he analyses the culmination of
the movement during the thirties.
John Wiley. 364 pages. 59/6 cloth; 26/6 paper.
BEYOND THE MEETING POT
The Negroes, Puerto Ricans, Jews, Italians and Irish of New
York City, by Nathan Glazer and Daniel Moynihan.
This book discusses the differing levels of achievement of the
five groups —in education, business and politics. It recounts
the fascinating story of each group’s adventures in politics
and struggle in the marketplace, and reveals the intertwining
threads of political and commercial power in the city’s history.
M.I.T. Press. 360 pages. 19/6 paper.
SEERAT AND THE SCIENCE OF PAINTING
By William Innes Homer.
Demonstrates the close connection that existed between science
and the visual arts during the late 19th century. In tracing
Georges Seurat’s theory of art and its application in his major
paintings, Dr. Homer has given us the best substantiated
appraisal of the artist yet to appear.
M.I.T. Press. 327 pages, illustrated. £6/5/-.
THE IMPACT OF COMPCTERS ON ACCOCNTING
By Thomas Mcßae (London School of Economics).
He examines the relationship between the computer arts and
accounting, listing the wide application in industry and science
of the computer, the divergence of tasks it can be set and
their effects on the future of accounting theory and practice.
John Wiley. 304 pages. 56/-
From all booksellers
John Wiley & Sons Australasia Pty. Ltd.,
102 Alexander Street, Craw’s Nest, N.S.W.
Professor of Classics at Texas, argues,
the “Homage to Sextus Propertius” is
not only a translation but a poem in its
own right; Earl Miner has written on
Pound’s use of the Japanese haiku , and
shown that even if Pound misunderstood
a lot, his study of haiku produced some
startlingly beautiful Imagist poems.
But George P. Elliott has raised the
nagging question in asking where,
amongst all these borrowings and
pastiches, is Pound's own voice? And
while critics are agreed on the worth of
the early “Mauberley” (though Kenner
and Leavis disagree over its interpreta-
tion), there is no concurrence of opinion
on the Cantos. Walter Sutton has in-
cluded several critics in his selection who
attempt to show unifying structure or
theme for the Cantos, yet none of them
is convincing in suggesting where to find
these qualities. Yeats puts it best—
“ Ezra Pound has made flux his theme;
plot, characterisation, logical discourse,
seem to him abstractions unsuitable to
a man of his generation.” The Cantos
are still not complete; they have gone
past the hundred originally promised and
the Canadian composer Murray Shafer
sees in them the principle of the fugue,
and says there is no reason why they
should ever end.
Pound remains a problem, which is
perhaps a mark of his greatness. We
can come to no easy conclusion about
him. Mr Sutton's selection of fifteen
essays indicates, in the variety of
approaches, something of Pound's own
range and flexibility.
John Gassner’s collection on O’Neill
performs an equally useful function, with
essays from van Hofmannsthal, Eric
Bentley, Stark Young and other critics
and scholars. “Twentieth Century Views”,
providing conveniently and compactly a
representative range of recent criticisms
from books and articles, Is a very valu-
able series for the reader and the student.
R. M. WILDING
Mood Ebony
My Face is Black. C. Eric Lincoln. Beacon
Press. 38s. 9d.
SNCC: The New Abolitionists. Howard
Zinn. Beacon Press. 535. 6d.
The Privacy Invaders. Myron Brenton.
Coward-McCann, Inc. 535. 6d.
Though many of the views in “My Face
is Black” have been expressed before,
they will remain worth repeating until
the American Negro’s fundamental rights
have been restored. In recent years this
process has been accelerated by a hand-
ful of aggressive Negro leaders, protest
organisations, and a current feeling which
C. Eric Lincoln calls the “mood ebony”
—a new pride in being black. The
book’s chief value is its examination of
this new mood and its connection with
the late Malcolm X. Elijah Muhammad
and the Black Muslims. Dr Lincoln is
understandably truculent, but his message
is important and passionately stated.
Howard Zinn wastes no time in reitera-
ting abstract arguments for racial jus-
tice; he plunges straight into a detailed if
informal history of the Student Nonvio-
lent Co-ordinating Committee, an organi-
sation of courageous youngsters which
originated in a North Carolina lunch-
counter “sit-in” staged by four students
in 1960. Operating in the worst areas of
the Deep South, combating police bru-
tality with Gandhian “direct action”
techniques (which dramatise the situation
for millions of television viewers), they
have accomplished more than slow-
moving legislation. Professor Zinn’s
book should arouse widespread sympathy.
“The Privacy Invaders” makes one
wonder if American capitalism has not
arrived—by another route—at an equally
severe limitation of individual freedom
as Russian communism. Myron Brenton
exposes a frightening "Big Brotherdom”
in which the private life of the citizen is
being invaded by lie-detectors, two-way
mirrors, electronic eavesdropping, tapped
telephones and many other insidious
techniques of intrusion. This survey of
a sociological phenomenon (already
pointed out by Vance Packard in “The
Naked Society”) can do little to arrest
these excesses, but will at least make the
victims aware that they exist.
TOM PICKERING


RECENT AMERICAN VERSE
Specially commissioned
by THE BULLETIN.
Don’t Sit Under The Apple Tree
With Anyone Else But Me!
“Don’t bug me, Pa!” Gregor Samsa
Created for whose sake? The praying
Mantis eats its mate. Hatched,
Two hundred or more eggs scramble
Away—(Breakfast for whom?) —eating
Each other. Among the outer leaves
Of plants; along flower stems;
Sometimes on branches; sometimes on
walls;
Seen by some, yes, looking in windows—-
They wait for lady beetles, they wait
For honeybees. I do not judge them.
Do not judge my poem! They are—•
I am —both are what we are.
They can be kept (in separate cages)
As pets, and will take pieces of apple
(See Genesis, chapters 1-4)
Fi;om your fingers or sip water
From a spoon. With imagination
(Familiarity?), there is little
One cannot love in heaven or earth.
After they know you well, they cock
Their little heads at your approach—
Asking, as I do, to be loved?
ROBERT PACK
To Jan, In Bar Maria
(after Po Chii-1)
Though it’s true we were young girls
when we met,
We have been friends fof twenty-five
years.
But we still swim strongly, run up the hill
from the beach
without getting too winded.
Here we idle in Ischia, a world away
from our birthplace—
That colorless town!—drinking together,
sisters of summer.
Now we like to have groups of young
men gathered around us.
We are trivial-hearted. We don’t want
to die any more.
Remember, fifteen years ago, in our twin
pinafores
We danced on the boards of the ferry
dock at Mukilteo
Mad as yearling mares in the full moon?
Here in the morning moonlight we
climbed on a workman’s cart
And three young men, shouting and
laughing, dragged it up
through the streets of the village.
It is said we have shocked the people of
Forio.
They call us Janna and Carolina, those
two mad straniere.
CAROLYN KIZE9
The Grave, The Mine
Taking off from the city
at night, from the
airplane, I look at streetlights
below: hovering unfixed
sockets of light.
Then it is black beneath me.
Yellow headlights
veer slowly along macadam
country roads,
far from pianos and theatres.
Women are leaning back in taxis.
Men stoop into taxis after them
and enter the well, the
grave, the tunnel, the mine
of fur and scent.
DONALD HALL
O To Be A Dragon
If I, like Solomon . . .
could have my wish —
my wish ... O to be a dragon,
a symbol of the power of Heaven—of
silkworm
size or immense; at times invisible.
Felicitous phenomenon!
MARIANNE MOORE
(By special permission of the author and the
Viking Press.)
Dust
Lying at home
Anywhere it can change not only
the color
But the shape of the finger that runs
along it leaving a trail
That disappears from the earth; nothing
can follow
Where that hand has walked and
withdrawn.
And I have lain in bed at home and
watched
Through a haze
Of afternoon liquor * the sun come
down through it
Dropping off at the window sill from
which dust has risen
With no voice the voices of
children to spin
In a stunned silence the individual
motes
All with a shape apiece wool
fragments
Small segments
Of rope-tricks spirochetes boring
into the very
Body of light and if you move your
hand through their air
They dip, weave then assume in the
altered brightness
The places they have had, and all
Their wandering. Wherever it is,
It rises;
The place stands up and whirls as
in valleys
Of Arizona where the world-armies
of dust gather in sleeping
Hordes. I have seen them walking
Nearly out of the world on a crazed
foot
Spinning the ground beneath them
Into chaos.
These are dust devils, and in that sunny
room
With the shape of their motes unmassed
not given a desert
I have closed my eyes and changed them
into forms
Of fire the dying’s vision
Of incandescent worms:
For moment
After moment have lain as though
whirling
Toward myself from the grains of the
earth in a cone
Of sunlight massing my forces
To live In time drawn into a shape
Of dust and in that place
A woman
Came from my spinning side. There we
lay
And stared at the ceiling of our house
at the extra motes
That danced about the raising of our
hands
Unable to get in—
To a human form at this time.
But ready
For children we might raise and call our
own,
Teach to sing to sweep the sills
to lift their hands
their hands
And make the dust dance in the air
Like bodies: ready:
Ready, always, for the next.
JAMES DICKEY
The Animals r
All these years behind windows
With blind crosses sweeping the tables
/
And myself tracking over empty ground
Animals I never saw
I with no voice
Remembering names to invent for them
Will any come back will one
Saying yes
Saying look carefully yes
We will meet again
W. S. MERWIN


A MAN
ABOUT
THE PLACE
A SHORT STORY BY PATRICIA ROLFE
// m ha!” No. 5, Mrs Eggleston,
called to No. 6, Mrs Finlay,
one small, jutting balcony to
the next.
“Aha!” Mrs Finlay replied, brushing
aside her soft curtains and coming to-
wards the morning.
“No. 8. Sold at last,” Mrs Eggleston
said.
“Oh, goody, goody,” Mrs Finlay said,
joining her plump palms together.
“This means our quarterly charges
come down,” Mrs Eggleston said. “Now
everything will be divided by eight in-
stead of seven.”
“Goody, goody. Every little helps.
When you're a widow. On a fixed
income. When you have to look at
every penny twice. And with the cost
of living what it is. I paid five shillings
for four short loin lamb chops at the
Junction this morning.”
“We're the new poor,” Mrs Eggleston
announced confidently
“Goodness, yes. That’s it in a nut-
shell.”
“And after a lifetime of saving and
planning. It's hard to take. The pen-
sioners are better oft than we are. Half-
rates everywhere. Free medicine.
Everything they could wish for. My
husband, my Will, thought he was doing
the best, but it might have been better
if we’d blown the lot on trips abroad
and so on, then gone on the pension
ourselves.”
“I know. I know. Still, we’re all
in the same boat. That’s something.
Geoffrey worked so terribly hard to
place the children then have something
for our old age. Then he never lived
to enjoy it. That's the tragedy of
modern life. All the men killed off and
us left. Alone.”
“In America they die at 45. They’re
all widows over there.”
“It’ll be as bad here soon. We’re
catching up with them. I was there
on a business trip with Geoffrey just
the year before he died. I didn’t think
things were so marvellous when you got
down to it. The clothes are very poor
quality for the price. And the food’s
absolutely tasteless.”
“Well, that’s the way things go,” Mrs
Eggleston said to round off the con-
versation.
Blooming with health, she stooped
down and with a small garden-fork be-
gan to loosen the soil around her pot-
plants. She was not only the only
widow among the seven who . could
divide by eight as easily as by seven,
she was the only one whose heart and
blood pressure allowed prolonged stoop-
ing. Her balcony display was by far
the best.
Mrs Finlay looked across the court-
yard, over the circular flower-bed ablaze
with petunias, to the four balconies
opposite. She sighed, made as if to go
inside, then gathered courage.
“That double pink one of yours is
absolutely magnificent,” she said.
“Dame Pattie, it’s called. It’s done
quite well here. I brought a cutting
when I came from Turramurra. When
I had it in the garden there it was
covered with rust. And I was always
spraying for red spider.” She straight-
ened her back. “There are some ad-
vantages in an upstairs unit. You only
get the flying pests, not the creepy
crawlies.”
“1 was wondering if sometime, when
it's established properly, of course, 1
might fjave a cutting.”
Mrs Eggleston plucked off a shrivel-
ling leaf.
“Of course, common or garden gera-
niums are ridiculously easy to strike,”
she said. “But these rarer ones can be
the very devil I don't know how many
failures I've had with them. Why I
persist I don’t know, although they are
the best thing in pots probably.”
Mrs Finlay, whc knew when she was
beaten, turned to go inside. When you
moved to a home unit, the first thing you
learnt was to get on with your neigh-
bors. She knew that, as things stood,
she and Mrs Eggleston would live along-
side each other until one of them died.
So, you simply had to get on. For-
tunately, in their block everyone got oh,
or at least understood they were sup-
posed to get on.
“My goodness, there's the removalist’s
van already,” Mrs Eggleston said.
Mrs Finlay came back to her door-
way.
“So it is,” she said.
As the van backed up the driveway
to No. 8, which was directly below
No. 6, Mrs Eggleston retreated behind
her barrier of thriving pot-plants. Mrs
Finlay had to go further back to the
protection of her curtains, but the van
was still in their view.
“Haughton Brothers,” Mrs Eggleston
said. “They’re the most expensive re-
movalists in Sydney.”
“I know,” Mrs Finlay breathed. “I
used Haughton’s without thinking. I was
so muddled and distressed at the time.”
“That’s just it. You get all these
responsibilities at the time when you’re
least able to bear them.”
“When Geoffrey died I didn’t even
know how to fill in a cheque butt.”
“I know. Will did everything for me.
Everyone always said, ‘Elsa, you’re
thoroughly spoilt’. But Will used to
say—”
“She wouldn't think to get quotes.”
“No.”
“What is her name?”
“Underwood, I believe.”
“She seems to have some rather nice
pieces. That French sofa. My sister-
in-law hlid one just like it.”
“She’ll have trouble fitting them into
a unit. I like that chest of drawers.
Mahogany, do you think, or cedar?
Another old home broken up Tragic,
really. Quick! Careful! Here comes a
car.”
An old but trim Rover came in the
path of the van. A man got out from
behind the wheel and slowly and ten-
derly helped a woman out of the car.
The woman stood plucking at her dress
like a schoolgirl while the man went
across and looked into the dark depths
of the van. He hitched up his trousers
and began to order things so that the
removalists stopped bumping the corners
of the furniture and began to take the
pieces into No. 8 room by room.
Mrs Eggleston raised her eyebrows at
Mrs Finlay. She continued to peer
through her rust-free geraniums and
Mrs Finlay through her curtains, but the
two people below gave no sign of know-
ing they were being watched. Soon the
two women retreated to their interiors.
Within a few hours they had re-
covered from their surprise and sharp-
ened their curiosity enough to make
themselves known, and a day or so later
Mrs Eggleston asked Mrs Underwood
up to morning tea to meet the other
women in the building.
- “Imagine! Seven widows!” Mrs
Underwood said, looking around Mrs
Eggleston’s living-room.
“And you,” Mrs Eggleston said.
“Yes, you,” Mrs Frampton-Davis,
No. 1, echoed.


“Well, it’s nice for you to have a man
about the place,” Mrs Underwood said,
setting her cup back on its saucer.
“We’ll all sleep more easily now,”
Mrs Finlay said politely.
“Yes, indeed,” Mrs Frampton-Davis
agreed.
“Another cup, Mrs Underwood?” Mrs
Eggleston asked. “No? Fortunately—
or unfortunately—we've just got the
Ever-Alert burglar alarm system. You
knew about that, didn’t you, Mrs Under-
wood? It's just • been installed, so Mr
Henley, the agent, will make a charge
for it in the next quarter's statement.”
“Oh,” Mrs Underwood said, smiling
gently. “My husband looks after that
side of things. He was a chartered
accountant before he retired. He know's
all about business.”
“How lucky you are!” Mrs Finlay
said, “We all have to do these things
for ourselves. Now'."
A sigh went across the room. Mrs
Underw'ood smiled sympathetically, al-
though there was smugness in the way
her second chin tucked itself under her
first.
“Pops —1 always call my husband
Pops—feels there will be a lot of little
things he can do for vou all.” she said.
“When w'e w'ere living in our own home,
he did all the odd jobs about the place.
Not because he had to. of course. He
liked it.”
“That's terribly kind of him,” Mrs
Eggleston said. “But all the jobs have
to be done by a licensed plumber or
electrician, as the case may be. It’s in
the Articles of Association.”
“Pops is awfully clever w'ith his
hands. And he’s not likely to try any-
thing he can't do. After all, he is a
professional man.”
,“It's in the Articles of Association,”
Mrs Eggleston said. “You'd have
signed them already.”
“Of course,” Mrs Underwood said.
She pursed dry lips and applied a
handkerchief to them. “Pops won't
mind if he doesn't have to do the jobs
about the place. Goodness me, he's
not looking for w'ork! Not when he's
just retired. Although he might like to
potter around the garden.”
“That’s a good idea,” Mrs Finlay said.
“I'm going to sound a wet blanket,”
Mrs Eggleston said. “But there’s, a bit
of a problem there too. You see, our
Romeo who cleans out the„ incinerator
and hoses the stairs and passages does the
garden too.”
“But w'e don't have to let our Romeo
do the garden.” Mrs Frampton-Davis
said. “We can save money that way.”
“But our Romeo won't do the other
dirty jobs if we take the garden away
from him. He’s not going to come all
this way just to clean out the incinera-
tor. It wouldn't cover his fares there
and back.”
“No, I suppose not,” Mrs Underwood
agreed.
Mrs Eggleston gathered up the last of
the cups.
“What we could arrange,” she said
after some reflections, “is for your hus-
band to empty the garbage tins. You
see, as it is our Romeo has to come on
Mondays and Thursdays because Tues-
days and Fridays are garbage days. If
there w'ere someone else to look after
the garbage he could come whatever day
suited him. So I’m sure it will be all
right for your husband to carry the
garbage tins to the footpath, don’t you
agree, girls?”
The girls agreed.
“Oh. thank you. thank you very
much,” Mrs Underwood said.
“You'll tell him?” Mrs Eggleston
said. “Actually he can begin tonight.
I'll tell Romeo w'hen he comes at five
o’clock that No 8 w ill be putting out the
garbage tins from now' on.”
“I’m sure Pops will be pleased to help
you all.” Mrs Underw'ood said. “But he
really needs a hobby. The bowling club
isn't enough Men are at such a loss
when they retire.”
“I suppose they are.” Mrs Eggleston
said slowly. “Actually, my poor husband
never lived to enjoy his retirement. He
worked so hard all his life, building up
the business, always thinking of the
family. Then just when the two of us
were able to sit back and think of our-
selves for a change, fie was snatched
from me.”
“How sad!” Mrs Underwood ex-
claimed. and flushed w'hen they all turn-
ed to look at her.
“That’s the way it goes,” Mrs Finlay
said. “My husband had hardly begun
his retirement when he had his first
coronary. In three months he was
gone.”
“My husband never even retired at
all,” Mrs Stevenson. No. 4, rushed in.
“He collapsed at his desk w'hen he was
54.”
“Yes, look at us all,” Mrs Eggleston
said. “Seven widow's. And you, of
course, Mrs Underwood.”
.“Pops has always w'orked terribly
hard,” Mrs Underwood said, swiftly,
softly. “Bringing income-tax returns
home every weekend. Never home
before naif-past seven. But he comes
from such a tough, wiry family. His'
mother's still alive and she’s 89. His
father died only a few' years ago. Pops
has never had a day’s sickness in his
life. I’ve always been the ailing one
in our family. A fearful burden to
Pops. I was always in a dreadful state
with the babies. And now this ulcer—
a man’s complaint, really. Goodness
knows why I got it. And what they
call a tired heart. Nothing serious,
really, but I’m not supposed to lift any-
thing or lift my arms above my head.”
“A creaking gate,” Mrs Eggleston
said. “Never mind, my dear, you’ll
easily outlast him.”
He was now coming up the path at
his brisk trot. He looked pink, well and
smiling and Mrs Underwood frowned
down on him through Mrs Eggleston’s
pot-plants. Soon she had to leave the
other women, who were lolling about
chatting without a care in the world to
go down and cook Pops’ lunch. To
wipe out her disloyal thoughts she
spent the afternoon making him his
favorite apple and raisin pie, but the
oven was new to her and the pie a
failure. She felt flustered and unhappy
and then came the wrenching pain in
her stomach. She took a dose of her
mixture and went and lay on the bed
with a scent-soaked handkerchief over
her face. Pops put his own chops under
the griller and ate his dinner alone. She
forgot to tell him that this was the night
to begin garbage duties.
He never got very proficient with the
garbage. He forgot it several times when
he went to the bowling club at night.
Mrs Underw'ood didn't suspect that the
garbage might have been overlooked
on purpose until sbe came after him one
night with his long-sleeved cardigan and
she saw him kick Mrs Eggleston’s gar-
bage tin as he passed on his way to the
garage.
“After all, they are seven widows,”
Mrs Underw'ood reproved him the next
day. “It’s little enough to do for them.
You’re the only man about the place.”
“Yes, I know,” Pops said, sighed and
lit his pipe. “You know',” he said after
some thought, “I wouldn’t mind doing the
garden for them. We could save a few
bob that way.”
Mrs Underw'ood was too weak
today her heart felt very tired to
explain the objections to that, so it
W'as left to Mrs Eggleston to come
charging down the stairs to explain
about Romeo after Pops had one morn-
ing plucked at a few of the weeds
around the rockery.
“I don’t mind not being able to do
the garden,” he complained then, “but
she’s had a padlock put on the tool-
shed. As if I’m going to sneak down
in the middle of the night and dig up
her blooming garden. Besides it’s not
her garden.”
“What you need is a hobby,” Mrs
Underwood said.
“What sort of hobby could I have
here? There’s no w'ork-room. No space
at all.”
“It was you who w'anted to sell the
house and buy a unit. I didn’t want
to leave my lovely home.”
“I thought it would be easier for
you. That w'e’d have time on our hands.
I expected to enjoy my retirement. I
read all the books and articles on how
to enjoy your retirement. I thought we’d
do all the things together we always


mm
illllii
■is'-*.-.- y
■ ififiifii
: •
pawi
«•;
.
«-i¥
. : : : : :
m
■
m
£**
8S*;:W:S?
love what
yu/
does for me
Even though I’m on the job, I always look smart and feel
good thanks to Cesarine. And our uniforms are laundered
often, but they always come back looking like new fresh,
crisp and colourful thanks again to Cesarine. Our uniforms
were specially designed to give us best protection and attractive,
stylish smartness we found everything only in Cesarine .
And the boss says Cesarine is good value, too!
CAESAR FABRICS LTD.—Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Launceston
-k
m
CPB3B/C
. . . SERVING AUSTRALIA UNIFORMLY
NEW!
FOR ALL
UNIFORMS
m
TO Pail | POLYESTER FIBRE
TETORON 65%
VISCOSE 39%
wanted to do. Go to Pinchgut. There’s
a waiting list of more than a year and
we’ve never even put our names down.
Take up something. Painting. Or marine
biology. Something. Now I never see
you. Every night you're playing bridge
with those confounded women —”
“But, Pops, darling, you can imagine
how pleased they are to get a second
four. And I do come down and make
you a cup of tea when I’m dummy.”
“Or else you’re at that bowling club
of yours.”
“Well, you’re always at your bowling
club.”
“Yes, I know, and we can see across
the green into your club-house. Those
women drink like fish. We can see them.
Hanging about there for all hours gos-
siping and drinking, then rushing home
at the last minute to get their husband’s
dinner. Fat lot of dinner their husbands
get.”
“They haven’t got husbands, most of
them. They’re widows. And free.”
“And if you could see yourselves on
the green. You haven’t the faintest idea
of the game and you never will have.
You look like a lot of chooks scratching
around in a yard. If you could only see
yourselves’ back-view, the way we can see
you, you’d never play again. We watch
you and we just roar laughing. We should
pay entertainment tax, really we should.”
“What you want is for me to be sitting
at home all day, waiting for you to come
home. When am I going to retire, that’s
what I’d like to know.”
But afterwards she spent a remorseful
afternoon in the kitchen making meringue
kisses. Again the oven failed her and she
was forced to take her mixture and lie
down. That night Pops did not throw his
chops under the griller but went to the
bowling club and had dinner there.
The next time she played bridge with
the girls, Mrs Underwood mentioned
that she felt the garbage tins were too
much for her husband. “After all, he’s
not young,” she said.
And as the spring grew dry, Mrs
Eggleston agreed that the toolshed should
be unlocked so that Mr Underwood could
water the garden each day.
But that wasn’t really enough to make
life worth living. Only a short time later,
leaving the bowling club late at night, Mr
Underwood, a little more frail, somewhat
lonely and discouraged, and also some-
what unsteady on his feet, slipped as he
was getting into the Rover and cracked
his head on the concrete kerb. He
was taken by ambulance to the Royal
North Shore but was dead on arrival.
“Cerebral haemorrhage,” Mrs Under-
wood explained a few days later to the
girls. “He was just leaving the bowling
club, when he just collapsed and died.”
Nothing about a concrete kerb.
“Extraordinary!” Mrs Finlay said.
“You could have taken a lease of his
life.”
“Only six months ago the doctor gave
poor darling Pops a perfectly clean bill
of health,” Mrs Underwood said. “But
I always felt something like this , might
happen. Pops had worked so hard for
so many years. That must take its toll.”
“That’s the way it goes,” Mrs Eggle-
ston said. “The men die like flies and
we’re left.”
“My husband hadn’t even retired,”
Mrs Stevenson said. “He was only 54
when he collapsed at his desk.”
But nobody wanted to listen to that
again. Mrs Eggleston, who felt very
cheerful in spite of the recent funeral,
snipped off a couple of pieces of Dame
Pattie.
“Here’s a cutting of Dame Pattie, Mrs
Finlay,” she said. “And one for you, Mrs
Underwood. See if you have any luck
with them.”
The eight widows bloomed behind the
screen of blooming geraniums, and kept
evergreen the memory of their husbands.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Expect Higher Taxes
If incomes outstrip production ex-
pect higher taxes, warned Bri-
tain’s PM, Mr Harold Wilson, in
a recent blunt speech. If incomes
run ahead of production the only result
will be higher prices and no lasting
improvement in living standards, he
said.
Give it a second thought and you
could almost apply the same situation
to Australia, where wage costs are
mounting, labor is scarce and export
income is falling.
If Harold Wilson is concerned that
rising costs will price Britain out of
export markets, then Australia has no
cause for complacency in a year when
a balance of payments deficit looks
like a nasty jolt.
Australian wage increases are
coming at a time when deflationary
conditions or capital restraints have
developed in most overseas countries.
The result is that Australia is becom-
ing less competitive, particularly in the
manufacture of goods for export. On
this score, Mr R. W. Anderson, Fed-
eral director of the Associated Cham-
bers of Manufactures of Australia*
echoes the growing theme that with-
out some stimulus to Australian ex-
ports of manufactured goods, the
Government would be forced to bring
down restrictive controls. The most
obvious restraints, of course, are
higher taxes and some form of im-
ports control.
Britain’s balance of payments pro-
blem and the Johnson-like appeal to
300 leading UK companies to remit
funds back home has pointed up Aus-
tralia’s remarkable reliance on over-
seas investment. It also prods Austra-
lia into thinking about her own
Common Market area, with Japan the
major practical contender for member-
ship in a non-Communist area. While
thinking on such a sub'ect, the ques-
tion of common tariffs comes up
automatically and the weakness of
Australia’s high cost structure is
underlined.
Assume, for example, that duty-free
areas like Hong Kong and Singapore
were included in a common tariff area
which required a free inerchange of
goods and labor with, perhaps, some
qualifying period of a few years for a
high tariff country like Australia to
reduce its tariffs on certain items to a
common level.
Without some compensating ad-
vantage of substantial export markets
for wheat, metals, wool, meat, dairy
produce, etc., the situation would be
impossible. Manufacturers probably
would find that their only practical
solution would be to re-locate their
R. W. ANDERSON
plant in Hong Kong and manufacture
cars, washing machines, etc., in that
area.
This is a drastic picture for people
who are not prepared to accept
change. But the trade patterns of the
world have never remained constant
and Britain’s efforts to survive econo-
mically while moving closer to Europe
expose the naked skeleton of a cost
structure cloaked by the myth that Bri-
tain was still a successful trading giant.
Stripped of the cloak of overseas
investment, Australia similarly is
shown to have skinny legs when it
comes to supporting a heavy cost
structure.
Credit for Export
"Oritish exporters are receiving im-
proved insurance and financing
facilities to help capture export sales.
As from April 1, Britain’s Export
Credit Guarantee Department (ECGD)
increased its maximum percentage of
risk cover for commercial losses on
exports from 85 p.c. to 90 p.c.
Commercial losses generally occur
through insolvency of the buyer or
protracted default in payment by the
buyer after he has accepted both the
goods and the accompanying bill of
exchange.
ECGD also has widened its cover
from 85 p.c. to 90 p.c. in those cases
where a buyer repudiates a shipped
order and refuses to take delivery.
However, as previously, the exporter
must still bear the first portion of the
loss, equal to 20 p.c. of the invoice
value. After meeting this first 20 p.c.,
the exporter can claim 90 p.c. of the
balance.
The maximum percentage cover for
losses caused by political factors re-
mains at 95 p.c. Political losses usu-
ally arise from exchange blockages,
cancellation of import licences, imposi-
tion of new import regulations, etc.
Bank guarantees, previously limited
to contracts involving a minimum of
three years’ credit, are now given for
two or more years’ credit and for
100 p.c. of the credit instead of the
previous 90 p.c., usually at a fixed
interest rate of 51 p.c. The exporter
must pay a premium for these bank
guarantees as well as the usual pre-
mium for his insurance cover, but this
premium rate has now been halved.
Following this lead from the UK,
Australia inevitably must consider im-
proved facilities for export insurance
and long-term credits, otherwise the
export markets will not go to the
swiftest but to the one who can offer
the most suitable credit terms.
There is some uncertainty about the
type of insurance cover an exporter
can obtain through EPIC in Australia.
It is misleading to say that he can
export to anyone and get 85 p.c. to
95 p.c. of his loss.
First, the prospective purchaser
must be investigated by the exports in-
surance organisation which, naturally
enough, will not insure an order placed
by a man who has no office and can-
not obtain a satisfactory bank refer-
ence. Secondly, in cases where the
purchaser cannot pay or repudiates the


LUDOWICI
FOR
LURETHANE
MADE FROM
OU PONT ADIPRENE
(POLYURETHANE)
The outstanding elastomer for engineering
applications—highest strength and abrasion
resistance of all elastomeric materials. Buy
Lurethane and get Ludowici's application
i!know how” at no extra cost to you.
. ■
Trade Marks. Adiprene—Dupont. Lurethane—Ludowici.
C LUDOWEO
'OH «
acos
SYDNEY
29-5841
MELBOURNE
61-3881
ADELAIDE
46-4141
BRISBANE
57-4021
INVEST IN
A
%
2
UP TO
FOR 10 YEARS
Application? will be accepted only on
printed forms attached to the Prospectus
which is ft£w available from your Stock-
broker, and all of tha Branches of
A NZ or I.A.C
throughout Australia
INDUSfRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
Underwriters—lan Potter & Co.
MSI
order after the goods are shipped, the
exporter must bear a loss equal to
15 p.c. of the gross invoice value,
compared with 20 p.c. in the UK.
If, for example, a shipper sent goods
overseas invoiced at £2OO and obtain-
ed only £IOO on resale after the ship-
ment was repudiated, he must bear an
initial loss of £3O, or 15 p.c. of the
invoice value. EPIC then pays him
85 p.c. on the balance of the loss and
the exporter thus may reco\er £591
out of £IOO loss, provided this does
not exceed 40 p.c. of the gross invoice
value (in this case £80).
Losses caused by political situations
are payable 95 p.c. of the loss without
any qualification.
As a follow-up of Britain’s liberali-
sation of insurance and credit terms,
some action is expected from Austra-
lian sources.
Cause and Effect
applauding Mr Holt’s
outspoken appeal for a removal
of US dollar restraints, American
opinion indicates that if Australia is
successful in gaining concessions it
automatically sets a precedent for
others.
The president of the Chase Man-
hattan Bank, Mr David Rockefeller,
confirmed what has already been said
here that bank commitments had been
made a month or two before L.B.J.
announced the clamp on outflow, so
there would be some time before these
funds were absorbed.
In the meantime, the success already
indicated in improving America’s
balance of payments problem sug-
gests that the dollar restrictions may
not need to be imposed for longer
than another six or nine months. They
were classed as temporary measures
when the US President introduced
them.
While telling the world that the
dollar squeeze is not going to last too
long, US experts cannot deny there
will be some sharp repercussions in
various countries. The intended dura-
tion of the squeeze in 1966 embraces
the period when Britain’s stop-gap loan
from European and US central banks
will come up for review.
If Britain’s financial affairs pass
muster and the US balance of pay-
ments continues to show a healthy re-
covery, the world circulation of money
can flow more freely again. If not,
there is more trouble ahead.
The current fashion for calling
money back home has prompted Can-
ada to form its own 1000-million-dol-
lar Canada Development Corporation,
to provide finance for Canadian com-
panies which otherwise might seek
funds outside Canada and surrender
control to foreigners. By taking up
10 p.c. of the capital, and under-
writing the balance of the issue to the
public, the Canadian Government is
prompting Canadians to support their
own companies. Simultaneously, it
swiped at foreign-owned newspapers
and magazines by ruling that Cana-
dian advertisers may no longer claim
as a business expense deduction the
cost of advertising to the home market
in a foreign-owned publication.
If this sort of retaliatory action
broadens, it could have a devastating
effect on the free interchange of money
and business activities among nations.
For example, the inevitable interrup-
tion of business travel and the con-
sequent cut-back in the circulation of
money would be an immediate conse-
quence, even though money is re-
directed within an economy.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Wage Teasers for the Commission
Tweakers from Mr Justice Sweeney
rpuE public has become inured to the
recital of well-known economic facts
as well as traditional arguments in wages
cases. But this year’s hearings, prolonged
though they have been, were full of
surprises and, for my money, the most
searching and useful on record. One of
the biggest surprises, of course, was the
way the unions threw down the gauntlet
to the total wage-ists by announcing in
the course of the hearings an intention to
claim an increase in margins later in
the year.
Not so surprising, perhaps, was the
alacrity with which the unions stepped
in on the morrow of the March quarter s
0.8 p.c. rise in the consumer price index
to have the equivalent of 2s. added to
their current basic wage claim, making
it now an average of 12s. Nobody at
the proceedings in Little Bourke Street
appeared, openly at any rate, to dissent
from this being permitted.
On the other hand, and quite apart
from what judgment the Commission
makes on the total wage case, it’s not
at all certain that all this 125., even a
major part of it, will be written into the
award as a result of the current basic
wage case.
It is not that Mr Hawke has left any
stones unturned, either in his efforts to
debunk the total wage notion or to
support his case to have real wages
maintained, but simply that he may well
find the Commission a harder nut to
crack after last year’s inglorious majority
judgment. It seemed to, me that in his
advocacy last week two particular phases
were likely to have an important bearing
on the outcome of the hearings, one
pulling in his favor and one against.
First, there was Mr Hawke’s attack
on the Commonwealth Government’s
anti-wage rise submission. This was un-
sparing. I jotted down words like
muddled, incompetent, misleading, in-
adequate, hypocritical—used by him to
decry Mr John Kerr’s efforts as counsel
for the Commonwealth. These aside,
Hawke got a good point home. He
claimed (not without justification, per-
haps, in the light of the abatement in
the rise of living costs and lifeless invest-
ment scene) that, contrary to “no easing
of pressures being in sight” as Mr Kerr
stated, the most significant easing of
pressures was being exerted by the
belated heavy impact of this year’s
Budget on liquidity in this second half
of the financial year. This impact, Hawke
stated, was something Mr Kerr, obsessed
with the prospective lift in defence
spending, had curiously played down.
Mr Hawke might have added that Mr
Holt had given notice last August that
the Budget would pinch the economy at
this stage of the year and that Dr
Coombs’ edicts to the banks last October
to curb lending were also calculated to
have their main impact in this tight
liquidity season. Also, though this was
not known when he was speaking, there
is the temporary hold-up of new lending
to overseas-owned firms ; Considering
these firms play such a big role in
J. R. KERR
economic life here, this is bound to have
a depressant effect on general activity.
Indeed, psychologically, the business
world is already ill at ease. For instance,
far from hailing the halved rate of rise
in living costs, the March 9000 drop in
unemployment, records for that month
in motor registrations, industrial produc-
tion and buildings approvals, as well as,
at long last, a fully subscribed Common-
wealth loan as signalling continuing
strong expansion in a more balanced
economy, the businessmen seemed to go
further into their shell.
At present pinched by the extra tight
seasonal credit conditions, they also
failed to cheer even a £27 million rise in
bank advances, though this was eight
times more than the long-term monthly
average for March. Then, in face of
the huge drain of money towards the
Treasury, neither did they clap very
much when, to ease the liquidity strain,
Dr Coombs recently released £22 mil-
lion to the trading banks from special
deposit account. The central fact here,
of course, is that Dr Coombs recently let
it be known that he now considers that
the £l5O million he originally thought
would be lost to liquidity this quarter
considerably understates the likely drain
and, further, that there will be little re-
spite for the system until early in the
December quarter.
Perhaps simply because it didn’t suit
his argument, Mr Hawke gave no credit
to the priorities for defence in his effort
to impress the Commission that no
dangers were lurking on the effective
demand front to deter it from increasing
the basic wage to the full extent of the
rise in the consumer price index. How-
ever, this additional defence spending is
still taking a long time to show up. It
remains to be seen whether the Com-
mission swallows his arguments that, on
the one hand, the prospect is for further
dampening of demand and that, on the
other, employees should not be victimised
by having real wages eroded by price
increases when employers can readily
increase prices to maintain their own
incomes in face of rising wage costs (not
that Mr Hawke conceded that a wage
increase to restore the real wage need
have the latter effect at the present time).
There was general admission around
the Bar table and along the Bench, he
claimed, that “real” capacity to pay a
higher 'wage had increased since last
year’s wage case and indeed, according
to him, goes on increasing virtually all
the time (he admitted the early 1930 s
depression period was an exception,
while the President, Sir Richard Kirby,
reminded him that 1951-1953 was an-
other). However, on this occasion he
was not basing his arguments for a wage
increase on movements in “real” capacity
as such, but strictly and exclusively on
what he called the availability of “money
capacity” a phrase he has coined
from an article written in 1960 by Pro-
fessor R. I. Downing and which has
become his bible. This article, it need
hardly be said, is one of the few ever
written by an economist applauding
quarterly cost of living adjustments to
the basic wage.
Hawke’s was a bold and skilful bid to
debunk the idea that the economy is
about to boil over and that industry can’t
afford another wage increase. But the
employers’ counsel had yet to come from
behind to drive home the point upper-


irl
IN MELBOURNE
smart people stay at the
RESS ORIENTAL HOTEL
at the Paris end of Collins Street.
Right in the heart of busi-
ness, entertainment, theatres
and shopping centre.
100 rooms—newly decor-
ated, 24 hour room service.
New air-conditioned res-
taurants, the Rib Room, for
delicious aged beef and steaks;
the Harlequin Room for the
young at heart.
Hotel shops include chem-
ist, florist, boutique—and a
step away is the high fashion
world of Collins Street.
Car parking at the hotel.
Ask about our Family
Booking Plan (children free).
For reservations, ring Mel-
bourne 636031; Sydney
298392, your Airline or
Travel Agent.
° RHI43/K4
HESS ORIENTAL
. MELBOURNE
IMPORTANT
NOTICE
We are anxious to contact
pec-pie who used the facilities
of American Service Canteens,
P.X. Stores, etc., in Australia
or New Guinea during the last
war.
Should you be one of such per-
sons please write to
P.O. Box 80, West Ryde, N.S.W.
HPI
most in Mr Kerr’s mind—the prospective
commitment for defence. Also to be
considered are the narrow, in some cases
already extinguished, profit margins
which employers say leave very little, if
any, scope for wage increases in default
of prices being raised to accommodate
them.
The other phase in Hawke’s long spell
at the crease which could have a major
bearing on the outcome of the case was
when he was bowled a series of tweakers
by Sweeney J., who was not on the Bench
for last year’s basic wage case. This
interrogation restored my waning faith
in the Commission as a forum for un-
covering the brass tacks of wage issues,
which both employers and unions con-
trive to smother with long, lush and often
woolly special pleading.
In retrospect it could be wondered
just what effect the presence of Sweeney
J. on the basic wage bench last year
might have had on the ultimate result of
that case, which was virtually decided
on the casting vote of the President, Sir
Richard Kirby, after he and Moore J.
had opted for a £1 increase and Nimmo
J. and Gallagher J. both wanted to settle
for only half as much. One of Sweeney
J.’s asides gave the impression that last
year’s pound put too high a premium on
“real” capacity for his liking.
At any rate his subtle questioning
succeeded in removing all doubts that
the unions’ case for a 12s. wage rise
this year is based solely on the rise in
the consumer price index over the last
year. All other considerations (apart
from the influence of import prices on
the index) were stated by Mr Hawke in
reply to Sweeney J.’s questions to be
irrelevant.
It also emerged from these exchanges
that in Mr Hawke’s view the Commission
would be violating its own 1961 estab-
lishcd principles if it failed to grant the
full increase demanded by the rise in the
cost of living over the last year. By the
same token Mr Hawke, following the
1961 principles which recognise the
unions' claims that movements in the
cost of living should be taken into
account at interim hearings between cases
reviewing the level of the real basic
wage, is presently quite happy to keep
some real capacity “in the bank” to he
dispensed by the Commission at its next
full consideration of capacity to pay.
Even if the unions’ own position has
now been made indelibly clear, it is
conceivable that at least Sweeney J. may
not choose to see the matter of wage-
fixing at this or any other wage hearing
in such water-tight compartments as Mr
Hawke. Furthermore, it could be that
in the event of this Commissioner seeing
things Mr Hawke’s way, he still might
find common ground with the two mem-
bers of the present Bench who considered
(in their minority judgments) that the
wage was lifted by 10s. too much last
year. In that case, and providing they
thought the full cost of living rise should
be awarded this year, the limit to which
they (forming a 3-2 majority) might
presumably think the wage should be
increased this year would be a mere 2s.
CROESUS
Curious Chain Reaction
Federal Government in cautious mood
policy being caught up in
what Mr Holt aptly described in
New York last week as “the curious
chain reaction in which we now find our-
selves involved’’, it is understandable
that the authorities have become more
cautious in their steps. Maybe some
people would describe the curbs on lend-
ing to foreign-owned firms as being
rather more aggressive than cautious, in
that they seem in part calculated to force
the hand of certain overseas governments
to relent on their restriction on capital
outflow to Australia. On the other hand,
they signify a growing cautiousness to-
wards the balance of payments outlook.
In default of a favorable response from
overseas they could easily be the pre-
cursors of tighter exchange controls and
selective import restrictions.
The curbs are doubtless regrettable in
that they cut across established and
successful Government policy towards
foreign investment. As an ad hoc tactic
to meet what is admittedly a real but
possibly only temporary threat to capital
inflow they could well have undesirable
long-term effects which don’t seem to
have been recognised in their adoption.
For discrimination of this sort belies
the pervasive and vital part played by
overseas-owned firms in the Australian
economy. A recent estimate put the
number of branches and subsidiaries of
US interests here at 1400, and there are
probably more UK-owned concerns than
that.
In other directions the Government is
being equally more cautious than of late,
Apart from the imponderables of the
balance of payments and defence, there
is another good reason for this. The
Vernon report is overdue and, if rumor
j s right, this is going to call for some
big changes which will test the Govern-
mcnt’s whole attitude to economic plan-
ning.
it was j n this cautious mood that the
Commonwealth recently came to the
preliminary conference of State Premiers
to consider tax reimbursements. At this,
the traditionally expansive Premiers
seemed to have put plenty of ideas into
Commonwealth heads. But reversing
the tactic it adopted at the last con-
sideration of the formula in 1959, when
the Commonwealth made all the running
with proposals that were eventually


Invest in
Associated
Securities
Limited
INTEREST
I
0
Applications can be accepted only on printed form
attached to the Prospectus available from Bank of
New South Wales branches, stockbrokers, or branches
of Associated Securities Limited.
Brokers —Ord, Minnett, T. J. Thompson & Partners.
F. CREAN
adopted, this time the Federal Govern-
ment sat mum.
The lines of approach of the majority
of the States were much as we suggested
they would be (see The Bulletin, Feb-
ruary 27, page 56), with Mr Renshaw
leading the way with suggestions that the
basic amount of the reimbursement be
raised by £l5 million and the betterment
factor increased (on a different basis to
the old one) to 3 p.c., thus writing a
much stronger growth element into the
formula.
None of the Premiers apparently
argued that the general structure of the
present formula should be scrapped.
Only the Victorian Premier, Mr Bolte,
thwarted in his own attempt to impose
a marginal State income tax, and perhaps
more anxious than anybody to secure a
bigger share of income tax, departed
from its basic principles. He suggested
that the States should be allowed to
retain 20 p.c. of the income tax col-
lected in their respective States, leaving
only 80 p.c. to be disposed of by the
Commonwealth for its own purposes and
for distribution under the grants agree-
ment.
The adoption of Mr Bolte’s proposal
would, of course, amount to a substantial
diluting of the generally accepted prin-
ciple that the richer States should look
after the poorer ones. It undermines the
central idea underlying uniform taxation
and, as such, one would not be very
confident of its acceptance either by the
majority of Premiers or by the Com-
monwealth.
There being more ways than one of
squeezing the Commonwealth lemon,
and Mr Bolte’s proposal being tanta-
mount to an erosion of the uniform taxa-
tion principle, most of the Premiers
appeared to favor Mr Renshaw’s ap-
proach, which leaves these principles
intact and still would seem to give the
States the same proportionate slices of
a much bigger total grant.
This is not to say that Victoria’s claims
for a bigger share of Commonwealth
revenue should be disregarded. Indeed
the time certainly seems ripe for a
recognition that it is the most rapidly
developing State, certainly in terms of
population (its population rose by 75,000
in 1963-64 compared with 68,000 in
NSW) and also most probably in national
product terms.
Unfortunately the charge on its Gov-
ernment revenue consequent on the
State being the biggest migrant absorber
has become disproportionate to its tax
reimbursement grant under the present
formula. This should be more tangibly
recognised in its share of Commonwealth
grants, quite irrespective of the painful
fact that last year it contributed more
per head to Commonwealth revenue than
any other State and yet in return received
from the Commonwealth £l. 16s. less per
head than any other State.
It is beside the point to say, as even
some usually responsible newspapers
continue to, that the Victorian Govern-
ment’s financial management is looser
than any other State’s. The hard fact
of the matter is'that Victoria’s financial
management is at least as good as any
other State Government’s, including
those enjoying exceptional revenues from
mining royalties and poker machines.
The cost of migrant absorption touches
Commonwealth - State finance relations
just as sensitively in the provision of
money for capital works as for ordinary
expenditure. The same general considera-
tions apply. The Loan Council, pre-
sumahly buoyed by the latest loan result
after a disappointing year, will soon
have the opportunity of taking another
look at these. In the interim, it seems
worth its while to ponder some of the
suggestions recently put up in Melbourne
by Mr Frank Crean, the Labor Shadow
Treasurer.
Mr Crean is concerned that present
financial relationships with the States has
produced what he called “a creeping
paralysis”, mainly because forward plan-
ning is being inhibited. He thinks the
States can only grapple with their prob-
lems on the basis of seeing funds secured
well ahead, as far as from five to ten
years. To assist them in this he advocates
that special grants be made over and
above those provided for in the normal
course of events, through tax reimburse-
ment and loan allocations. His present
suggestion is for a special grant of £4O
million for the coming year to finance
forward planning, to be done partly by
separate States and partly on a national
basis. In addition he suggested that an-
other £4O million over and above present
commitments should be granted to
“under-developed” areas, including New
Guinea as “some sort of recognition of
our responsibilities externally”.
Here then is an extra bill of £BO mil-
lion Mr Crean would add to the Com-
monwealth’s commitments next year.
While some of the suggestions he puts
alongside this, such as the establishment
of a national works council, have merit,
it is hardly likely, for all its muteness at
the Premiers’ Conference, that the Com-
monwealth would entertain the idea of
making such gratuitous contributions in
the present delicate situation.


Third Generation Triumphs
Yet computers still pose social problems
"I just can't seem to make my own decisions any more."
By VICTOR WORSTEAD
¥t is no accident that The Bulletin’s
cover, drawing attention to a story on
computers, should show one tiny, half-
inch - square ceramic component, a
module or logic circuit. For the greatest
successes of computer science in recent
years have been won in the fields of
microcircuitry and microtechnology.
Gone from the latest models are the
vacuum tubes and larger-style transistors.
They were two generations back in a
life cycle, for commercial computers,
totalling all of a dozen years! So com-
puter men speak of third-generation
machines and techniques, even believing
a stage has arrived, a plateau in re-
search perhaps, which will not render
their presently available instruments
obsolete in the light of coming tech-
nological discovery.
The minute new parts considerably
lower transmission distances and the
previously vast maze of internal con-
nections. Operational speeds are thus
increased, constructional costs lowered.
The miniature modules may also be
mass-produced.
This extremely vigorous technical
advance and bravura does not necessarily
bring much comfort to prospective users
of machines, now throughout the world
being offered a very wide range of choice
as highly competitive manufacturers cry
their wares.
Nor can it lessen the tremendous social
and economic problems which have
scarcely been reckoned with, let alone
solved, during the brief three-generation
introduction of computers to science and
industry.
Highly sophisticated economies like
the USA have scarcely learned to in-
terpret the full effects of computerisation
and the resultant impetus given to its
companion, automation. These same
effects can undoubtedly become more
prominent in Australia, where the com-
puter market is apparently growing at
the rate of 35 p.c. a year and where
current orders are worth about £2O
million a year.
Already Australian Governments,
businesses, universities and scientific or-
ganisations operate some 300 Computers
of various kinds and sizes. That might
sound like a small number spread over
the working population when compared
with American and Western European
levels. But local installations have multi-
plied by four times in under three years.
The situation surely implies that the
time is ripe for Australia to begin a
more urgent formulation of such prob-
lems as employment, re-training, redun-
dancy and overall economic efficiency—
each of them raised in heightened
measure as computer penetration in-
creases. So far there has occurred in-
sufficient skilled discussion of these
vitally important general topics, though
the relative rush of installations makes
them especially important in an economy
frequently strained to produce enough
skilled labor.
At the time of writing, Melbourne’s
International Congress on Human Rela-
tions gives hope that debate and decision
on computerisation and automation may
be lifted to better standards. Certainly
a goodly number of papers will be con-
cerned with technological change and the
so-called second industrial revolution.
Tor a country where governments and
trade unions have tended to stay too far
apart on these matters, it looks par-
ticularly encouraging that the Minister
for Labor-and Industry, Mr W. Mc-
Mahon, is to speak on “Technical Change
and the Individual”, and Mr Albert
Monk, of the Australian Council of
Trades Unions, on “The Impact of Auto-
mation on Labor Policy and Employ-
ment”. The conference could easily pitch
its eyes well into the future, yet some
reference to purely domestic issues and
possibilities must surely stimulate the
necessary Australian debate in terms of
our own specific conditions.
The present article cannot dwell in
detail upon the scientific and manu-
facturing triumphs which have brought
the third-generation computers into
being. Many experts now appear to
believe that the breakthrough into
miniaturisation will be subject to steady
improvement rather than to more radical
surprise and sudden innovation.
That does not mean, however, that
electronics, the background science in-
volved, has reached anything like a static
position. The next steps will assuredly
be concerned with further “integration”
of the smaller logic circuits now current,
so that all the parts and connections of
a traditional circuit board may be etched
into a chip of semi-conductor material,
mostly silicon, about the size of a pin-
head.
Integrated circuits call for fewer out-
side connections to be made after they
themselves are processed. Computers of
much greater complexity and exactness
can therefore be developed without un-
due increases in costs.
At this moment fairly low-priced
machines are available for commercial
data processing which incorporate
features previously restricted to the
bigger and very costly systems. The
range of application of quite moderate
installations is thereby greatly widened.
With the newer machines, as well, the


TRANSPORT
DEVELOPMENT GROUP
IN 1964
Economic conditions during 1964 were such that
the assets of nearly all Group companies were
employed to the full. Profit before tax for the
year ended 31st December 1964 is £3,792,636
which is £1,024,069 more than the corresponding
profit for 1963. Of this increase 65 per cent arises
from companies already in the Group at the
beginning of the year.
A final dividend on the Ordinary Shares of 9 }
per cent is recommended, making a total of
per cent for the year. The equivalent figure for
1963 was 101 per cent. Subject to the approval of
shareholders, dividend warrants will be posted
on 30th April.
Increase in Share Capital
The Board recommends the capitalisation of
£2,512,039 of the Company’s reserves and the
issue to Ordinary shareholders on the register
at sth April 1965 of one new Ordinary Share,
credited as fully paid, for every five Ordinary
Shares then held. Subject to the necessary resol-
ution being passed at the Annual General
Meeting, renounceable share certificates will be
posted on Ist May.
A resolution will also be proposed at the
Annual General Meeting to increase the author-
ised share capital of the Company from
£20,450,000 to £30,450,000 to meet the needs of
future acquisitions and development.
Trading Report
The Group is made up of more than 80 vigorous
enterprises trading under their own names, each
under the control of its own managing director,
and given as much authority and freedom as the
limits of prudent financing permit. From this the
success of the Group has derived.
It was a good year for road haulage. Attrition
of profits by increases in wages and other costs
was offset to some extent by rate increases, and
the high volume of traffic available reduced empty
running to a minimum and increased profitability.
These circumstances made it necessary to secure
additional vehicles on carriers’ licences, and the
United Kingdom haulage fleet now numbers
approximately 3,000 vehicles. Contract fleets
have been further extended, and they provide a
solid regular contribution to profitability. Trailer
services to the Continent again increased and
there has been a noticeable improvement in the
balance of loading in each direction. An eight-
acre site has been bought at Grangemouth for
development as a road haulage and warehousing
terminal.
New warehouses have been built in Glasgow,
Hull and Warrington, and further warehouses
are in hand at Dartford, Hatfield and Barking.
A site has been acquired adjacent to the main
cold store in Liverpool and additional cold
storage space of 200,000 cu. ft. is now under
construction; at Taunton the cold store is being
extended. Work has continued throughout the
year in Sheffield on the construction of a modem
fully palletised cold store of 360,000 cu. ft., and
provision has been made for the addition of a
further 200,000 cu. ft. if necessary at a later stage.
Other activities include exhibition work, in-
dustrial removals, packing and shipping and light
engineering. In the exhibition field competition
is still keen. As well as many exhibitions at Earls
Court and Olympia, work was handled for the
British Industrial Exhibition in Peking and the
British Trade Fair in Sydney. Industrial removals
were in demand and profitable contracts have
resulted. This is a highly specialised service
calling for substantial investment in plant and
equipment and these facilities are now available
from depots in London, Birmingham, Manchester
and Glasgow, and will be extended to Leeds
during 1965.
Acquisitions in the United Kingdom
To some extent the year was dominated by the
Australian acquisition to which reference is made
later but expansion in the United Kingdom has
continued and is continuing. Amongst the com-
panies acquired were J. & R. Wright (Haulage)
Limited, operating 100 vehicles, and the leading
haulage contractor of fruit and vegetables in
Glasgow and John Russell (Grangemouth)
Limited, specialising in tanker and refrigerated
container work. We also made a substantial
investment in warehousing and haulage in the
Midlands through the purchase of Midlands
Storage (Transport Services) Limited and its
associated companies. These operate a fleet of
80 vehicles and have 600,000 sq. ft. of covered
storage accommodation at West Hallam near
Derby. Also in the Midlands we acquired
J. Stirland (Nottingham) Limited with.extensive
warehouse accommodation in Nottingham and
a haulage fleet of 35 vehicles.
Expansion in Western Europe
The Group holding company in the Netherlands,
Europa Transport Ontwikkelings Maatschappij
ETOM N.V., has begun to make acquisitions on
the Continent. This is a new field, and we have
much to learn, but all the indications are that the
application of Group techniques and methods can
be every bit as effective on the Continent as in the
United Kingdom.
Three Dutch companies have been bought by
ETOM: W. van Amerongen N.V. of Barneveld,
Gebr. van den Bos Transporten N.V. of
Naaldwijck and Ribro International Transport
N.V. of Rotterdam. ETOM is owned in part-
nership with Thomsen’s Verenigde Bedrijven
N.V. of Rotterdam, Transport Development
having a 60 per cent interest. We acknowledge
warmly the help of our partners in Holland in
these enterprises and, together with them, are
taking steps to see that the pace of expansion is
accelerated so that increasing profits accrue to
the Group from its European connection.
Development in Australia
In May 1964 the Group acquired Cargo Distri-
butors Limited, an Australian holding company
with headquarters in Melbourne which had 21
subsidiary companies. The Cargo group engages
in the business of road transport, both local and
inter state, heavy haulage, warehousekeeping,
packing and shipping and forwarding. It operates
more than 800 vehicles of all types and has large
properties both freehold and leasehold in
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth
and Darwin, and in Tasmania. In all main centres
of Australia the Cargo companies act as rail
freight forwarders and have suitable rail terminal
accommodation. We regard the company as our
springboard into Australia, for this is a continent
where enterprise, initiative and ability can be
amply rewarded, and we hope that in the years to
come we shall be able to enlarge and expand our
investment there.
Future Outlook
The Group is in fine fettle and ready to enlarge
wherever the opportunity for effective deployment
of its capital appears.
The current year has begun with all the vigour
of 1964 and profits to date exceed the comparable
figures of last year. Better spread than ever before,
the Group should do well in 1965 provided the
buoyancy of the economy continues.
The foregoing is an extract from the annual state-
ment by Mr. P. 'S. Henman, Chairman of Transport
Development Group Ltd., Bucklersbury House,
London, E.C.4.
All monetary references are to £ sterling.
1964
1961
1963
1962
20,211
2,768
19,992
13 7
15-5
10,468
10-4
15,747
2,258
18,021
14 3
14-3
8,374
80
12,978
1,953
15,008
150
13 8
6,665
6-4
ROAD TRANSPORT • LIGHTERAGE • STORAGE


M3c
v 1
FACTORING AND LEASING
T 5
distinction of building separately for
scientific or business applications is
breaking down. The latest instruments
are multi-purpose, since it has become
recognised that the requirements for
voluminous data processing and research
calculation, for instance, can be built
together.
The process of improvement cannot,
of course, be concentrated only on the
actual computer, which generally ac-
counts for but 25 to 50 p.c. of the cost
of a commercial outfit. So a good deal
of present-day manufacturing research
is being directed at the peripheral input
and output devices, memory storage
equipment and printers.
If the social effects of the latest com-
puter advances have received too little
discussion, the same complaint hardly
applies to awareness of their application.
Practically everybody chatters about such
things as computers in space satellites,
the quick treatment of examination
results, extensions to medical diagnosis,
the booking of airline seats, and begins
to look with a measure of apprehension
at the oft-foretold complete automation
of entire factories.
Businessmen are becoming quite versed
in the electronic data processing of office
information and procedures. In par-
ticular, banks and insurance offices have
been well to the fore. Stock Exchanges,
too, join the rush to become computer-
ised to the great benefit of both stock-
brokers and the investing public.
Indeed, the chairman of Sydney .Stock
Exchange, Mr A. H. Urquhart, has well
summed up the business climate: “In
Australia over the last few years, the
computer has ceased to be a blue sky
affair: it is now very much on the plane
of the average business enterprise. The
cost factor has been reduced and prob-
lems of size of equipment have been
overcome to a significant extent. At the
same time, the range of capabilities has
been extended and, most important of
all, the art of using computers in their
true capacity as a powerful tool of
management has reached a fairly ad-
vanced state.”
In other words, business has started
to move beyond the mere processing
and assemblage of data. It is using the
revolutionary tool as an aid to decision-
making and, where manufacturing in-
dustry is concerned, moving towards
production control and genuine opera-
tional automation.
More revealing than suchlike generali-
ties is contact with industrialists con-
templating these and similar extensions.
The writer recently had the opportunity
of examining the e.d.p. equipment and
plans of three very large basic metal
manufacturers in the Port Kembla dis-
trict.
Mot surprisingly, their fundamental ap-
* proach and also their experience
turned out to be similar. All, for
instance, stressed the absolute need for
detailed feasibility studies before embark-
ing on any portion of computerisation.
In this matter, it should be added, the
computer supply companies are discov-
ering the virtues of absolute honesty and
client support. The “bard-sell” is hardly
enough.
Each of the three Port Kembla or-
ganisations exemplified the contemporary
demand of planning for the business
operation as a whole and not wasting the
computer on a few tasks only. Here
again, integration is the word and once
more the chance of doing all data pro-
cessing within one system possesses
implications for smaller enterprises.
The planning should manifestly em-
brace even the detailed Hes’sn of the
accounting and other forms used to
record the computer output. It may also
have to include such foresight as the
simplification and rationalisation of forms
on which a factory worker writes one
item of information. Such information
must be scrupulously accurate and always
at the same position on card or paper.
The Port Kembla firms have for-
tunately been able to staff their own
computer divisions, establishing in each
case a small research section to examine
and test further applications. After fairiy
uniform successes with payrolls, stock
control and order analysis, ideas are
being directed towards much greater pro-
duction control.
AH the respective managers were
very ready to admit that the day of
wholesale factory - process automation
still seemed some distance off in Aus-
tralia, whatever is reported from over-
seas. This does not. or should not. con-
stitute an excuse for not discussing and
preparing for the eventuality.
All, again, relished the computer as
an essential management tool. One
works secretary vividly complained that
the slow speed of the necessary pro-
gramming prevented him from securing
all the information he saw could be
provided.
Time and time again, too, the dis-
cussion came back to the obvious impact
of computerisation, and automation, on
unskilled labor. The call is for rapid
development of skills among both clerical
and factory labor. A simple recording
clerk will be rendered more and more
otiose. Conversely, greater skill and
training will be required on the factory
floor. ‘
All the routine hindrances which irk
the eager businessman will certainly be
conquered—-slow programming, skilled
staff requirements, the accommodation
of auditing procedures to computer-pro-
duced accounting.
The third-generation conquests, though,
so far leave unanswered the massive
social problems mentioned at the begin-
ning of this article. Up till now, the
effects of automation, in Australia as
in America, have largely been masked
by almost fully employed economies and
the continuous creation of new jobs.
Last year’s statistics at least appeared
to show that automation has not yet had
deleterious effects in America. Lack of
skills and adequate education is emerg-
ing as a principal feature in producing
unemployment.
Is it too easy to say that technological
change, of which the third-generation
computers are shining examples, has
consistently raised productivity and
always, in the final resort, provided
more job opportunities? Whole new
classes of jobs are now on the way to
being born.


epic keeps
exporters afloat
Trading overseas on credit? Should your customers
founder, an epic policy will keep you afloat.
epic charts the way to smooth sailing with risk
assessments, credit intelligence and advice on
payment term patterns, epic insurance pays you
when youY overseas customers can’t. Ask for the
booklet which tells how epic makes exporting safe.
EXPORT PAYMENTS INSURANCE CORPORATION
Commonwealth Government Guaranteed
SYDNEY: 2 Castlereagh Street, 2 8 2321
MELBOURNE: 224 Queen Street, 67 3 914
ADELAIDE: 118 King William Street, 8 7327
PERTH: 212 Adelaide Terrace, 23 3488 Dept, of Trade, at Brisbane or Hobart.
A Case of Export Apathy
Once more the “soft-sell” in Milan
From RONALD ANDERSON
Australia has just put on a 10-day
trade exhibition in Milan, its big-
gest ever staged in Italy. According to
Commonwealth Department of Trade
officials in Italy the exhibition was “an
undoubted success”. According to some
of the exhibitors its value was doubtful,
to say the least.
Sixty-five Australian firms took part in
what was, by any standards, a modest
display. The products exhibited ranged
from koala toys and Australian jewellery
to mops, rubber gloves, frozen meat and
engineering equipment.
To most Italians Australia is a land of
sheep and kangaroos. The exhibition
did little to disillusion them. It gave
no real idea of our industrial growth,
of our heavy industries, of the standard
of our food products, the scope of our
trade, or even of the fact that we are
at least a semi-industrial nation.
Most of the goods displayed could
equally well have been made in India,
Uruguay or Bulgaria. In other words,
the exhibition lacked hard-sell, lacked
solid technical facts, lacked first-hand
expert information and was generally
rather superficial.
If anyone is to blame for this it is
the Australian businessman himself,
who still tends to be either smug or
apathetic about exports.' Obviously many
of the companies which agreed to take
space at Milan thought their responsibi-
lity ended with signing a cheque, putting
in a claim under the export incentive
scheme, and handing over a few tins of
their product.
Of the sixty-five firms exhibiting, only
one —Felt and Textiles of Australia —
thought it worthwhile to have a man
there for the fulL ten days. Half a
dozen other firms paid flying visits for
a day or two. The others just “didn't
bother”.
Only one firm went to any pains to
have its technical information translated
into Italian. Some displayed goods with
price tickets in Australian shillings and
pence—absolutely meaningless in Italy.
Some displayed their products in a void,
with no background setting worthy of
the name and no descriptive material,
even in English.
Nor was the choice of products dis-
played very enterprising. Some firms
seem to have shovelled anything into
the crate at the last minute, careless of
whether or not it might find a market
in Italy.
I am not sure whether too much
money was spent on the Milan exhibi-
tion or not enough. But lam sure that
if the money had been put into sending
a few top salesmen into the Milan area
for a week the results would have been
far more worthwhile.
According to Australian officials, the
exhibition drew 500 “trade inquiries”,
though some of the exhibitors split their
sides laughing when I repeated the figure.
Certainly on the day I was there most of
the activity centred around four New
Zealand girls looking for a free meal
(they thought the Australian dried fruits
excellent).
My reaction to the exhibition tallied
with that of an Australian exhibitor,
who remarked to me: “1 only hope the
Italians don't imagine this collection is
representative of Australian industrial
production!”
In general appearance the display was
attractive, perhaps too attractive. Per-
haps if it had concentrated on solid
technical and trade information it would
have been more convincing.
It seems that it is not enough for
apathetic Australian firms “going through
the motions” to leave it to the over-
worked Department of Trade representa-
tives to save their exhibits from them-
selves. It seems something must be
done at least to guarantee that firms
exhibiting either have a staff member on
the spot for the whole period of the
exhibition, or have their local agent
standing in for them.
And perhaps the Commonwealth
Government itself may have to fill the
gaps to make sure that future exhibi-
tions, especially in such important buyer
countries as Italy, are more truly indi-
cative of Australian production today.


fit
1 .!.}
11
HIGHEST EVER GROUP PROFIT
BEFORE TAXATION
Continuing trend of Home and Overseas expansion
LOMBARD AUSTRALIA LIMITED
announces that the following is an extract from the circulated Statement
of the Joint Chairmen Mr. Eric J. P. C\ L. Knight and Mr. Maxwell Joseph of
LOMBARD BANKING LIMITED
All Shareholders and Staff will .join the Board in wish-
ing Mr. Spater, Chairman for many years, every
happiness in his retirement. He has been appointed
the first President of the Bank.
Mr. Maxwell Joseph has become a Director of the
Bank.
Mr. Eric J. P. C. L. Knight and Mr. Maxwell Joseph
have been elected Joint Chairmen of the Board.
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTS
Controlled expansion and development of our busi-
ness at Home and Overseas is progressing.
Group Results in Brief.
The results for the year under review disclose:—
£
Dividend forecast exceeded.
Your Board recommends a final dividend of 15%
making a total of 20% (171% last year). This exceeds
by 1 % the dividend forecast.
This clear trend has produced the highest Group
Profit before Taxation ever to be achieved.
Your Board is optimistic for the future as regards
both expansion and higher profits but a firm forecast
for 1965 would be inappropriate.
CITY OFFICE
During 1964, the Bank’s new Offices at 31 Lombard
Street in the City of London were opened.
The top floor of Lombard House is now being sub-
stantially enlarged. The need for this increased Head
Office accommodation demonstrates that Lombard
Banking Limited continues to thrive and develop.
HOME SUBSIDIARIES
Lombank enjoyed the most satisfactory year in its
history and produced record profits before Taxation.
A substantial increase was experienced in amounts
advanced to customers embracing the highest standard
of quality.
New Branch Offices were opened in Warrington,
Huddersfield and Lewisham and will be opened in
Hounslow, Chatham, Cambridge, Southend and
Sligo in Ireland.
Bank Rate at 7 % constitutes a material factor in the
achievement of profits by any National Finance Com-
pany and the new Hire Purchase Act is still untried.
The Management have however had experience of
similar conditions and remain confident of the con-
tinued success and profitability of Lombank.
Devon House Finance Company became wholly-owned
during 1964 and will continue as a very profitable
subsidiary.
Awley Finance Company continued its progress as a
leading Organisation financing Domestic Equipment
and Appliances and providing Block Discounting
facilities to the Trade.
Tricity Finance concentrating upon finance for Tele-
vision and Radio, Gas and Electric Cookers, Radio-
grams and Record Players has a promising future.
Closer liaison between Awley Finance and Tricity
Finance is being promoted.
Lombard Bank Ireland. The Board of this new Banking
Subsidiary has expressed satisfaction with the results
achieved to date.
Lombard Holdings, the Investment Subsidiary, showed
marked improvement. One investment, which we had
held for many years, was disposed of at a most satis-
factory profit. Suitable new investments will continue
to be acquired.
OVERSEAS SUBSIDIARIES
Our investments Overseas show every promise of
producing increasingly satisfactory results.
Lombard Australia. It is with pleasure that we report a
satisfactory improvement in the management and
affairs of Lombard Australia, as evidenced by the con-
tinually increasing flow of good quality business to our
Branches in all States, with consequent improvements
to our profits. Subject to unforeseen circumstances the
profits arising from Lombard Australia in future
years should reach a rewarding level.
During 1964 a new Branch was successfully estab-
lished in Wollongong, New South Wales.
To all members of the Staff throughout Australia
we extend our warm thanks and appreciation.
We take great pleasure in welcoming Mr. Arthur
Uther, F.C.A., as a Director of Lombard Australia,
together with Mr. Thomas Clarke, one of our profes-
sional advisers for many years. Mr. Arthur Uther also
accepted our invitation to become Chairman.
Lombard Australia continues to be our largest
Overseas Subsidiary and we are confident that the
potential in this country is very considerable. Our de-
termined intention to secure our position as one of
Australia’s leading National Finance Companies has
been achieved and we expect to enjoy an increasing
share of the prosperity of Australia with attendant
improving profits for many years to come.
Lombard New Zealand ouroldest Overseas Subsidiary
has been consistently profitable to the advantage of
the Parent Bank over the years.
The freehold of a large office building in Auckland
has been acquired and is now designated Lombard
House and our Board have negotiated the purchase of
an important office building in Wellington which will
become the Head Office of Lombard New Zealand.
Lombank Canada continues to make progress. Condi-
tions for business are highly competitive but 1964
proved to be a more successful year and three new
Branch Offices will open during 1965.
Banque Orca achieved a satisfactory year with profits
and dividends in accord with expectations.
Banque Orca remains our only investment in Europe
but appropriate attention is continually given to the
possibilities of developing the interests of Lombard
Banking on the Continent.
CONCLUSION
The Report and Accounts for 1964 reveal results that
are the most satisfactory ever recorded by Lombard
Banking. No effort will be spared to improve these
results during 1965. This will not be easy, for many
reasons which will be apparent, but a spirit of confident
optimism prevails at all levels at Home and Overseas.
LOMBARD AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Head Office: 53 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES Telephone: 28-2605
A MEMBER OF THE LOMBARD BANKING GROUP


Finance
Corporation
of Australia
Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DEBENTURE
STOCK
0
PER ANNUM 10 YEARS
7i
7
/o
PER ANNUM 6 YEARS
6k
PER ANNUM 3 YEARS
Applications for
debenture stock can be
accepted only on
the printed form referred
to in and attached to
the prospectus.
Prospectuses and forms
of application should
be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercialßanking Company of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
BROKERS
lan Potter &. Co.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier f.n. i
INVESTMENT
No Deep Freeze Right Here
Food companies show happy trend
TThtozEN foods continue to increase in
popularity and the industry itself
continues to grow and expand. Recent
reports from two Melbourne-based com-
panies reflect the trend.
Piet Ltd is to pay a maiden interim
dividend of 7i p.c., following a sales
rise of 21 p.c. and slight profit rise in
the seven months to the end of January.
Last year’s prospectus from the company
indicated that dividends of 15 p.c.
would be distributed annually. Profit in
the 1963-64 year jumped from £57,000
to £85,000. equalling 28.3 p.c. on capital
after the public issue.
Piet’s assurance of a higher earning
rate this year means that shareholders
will most probably be asked to put up
more money soon. At last year’s annual
meeting they were told that £400,000
had to be raised for new buildings and
to increase processing capacity. At the
end of March it was announced that
£200,000 had been raised through a
placement of unsecured notes with three
leading life offices. When the rest is
needed, it seems that shareholders will
be called on to provide it.
The company’s improvement in the
latest seven months is satisfactory, but
better things may be it} prospect. The
latest result was adversely affected by
large quantities of quick-frozen peas
being sold at reduced margins. Bean and
pea production has been rising in line
with the company’s budget. Poor
weather conditions hampered things be-
tween January and March, but sales in
February and March maintained the rate
of increase achieved up to the end of
January.
Frozen Food Industries of Australia,
which operates a general freezing works
as well as other activities, lifted profit 33
p.c. in the nine months to March 31 to
£41,000, equalling 24.2 p.c. on capital on
an annual basis. The 1963-64 profit
equalled 19.6 p.c. on capital.
This company’s profits have improved
considerably in each of the three quarters
of the current year. Actual profit in the
March quarter was equal to an annual
earning rate of 30.9 p.c. Sales rose from
£196,000 to £235,000. For the full nine
months they have risen from £559,000 to
£667,000. Frozen Food is one of the
few companies which issues regular
quarterly statements with full figures for
both tax and depreciation.
When it was originally listed late in
1963, dividends of 9 p.c. were predicted.
However, the rate has already been estab-
lished at 10 p.c. Progress in the current
year appears to be actually better than
the above figures indicate. Sales
announced for 1963-64 included £91,000
arising from a franchise held for the
distribution of certain frozen foods in
Melbourne. This franchise lapsed in the
last quarter of that year and sales fell
sharply as a result. So the higher sales
this year have been achieved despite the
loss of franchise.
The company is another from whom
an issue can be expected some time this
year, or early next year. A placement of
56,000 ss. shares was made at 12s. 3d.
(the current market price at which the
yield is 4.2 p.c.) to financial institutions


“For legal advice, people
come to me but when
it comes to money ...
I go to the
men who
know money
and how to invest it safely . ..
THE MEN WHO RUN
WALES UNIT TRUSTS"
The history of Wales Unit Trusts has been one
of safety and assured income.
The Wales has longer experience in handling
money than any other organization in Australia.
Lowest management fee of any unit trust in
Australia.
Safety: The old adage, “Don’t put all your eggs in
one basket” has never been better proved. Investors’
funds are efficiently spread over a great many
different Australian industries.
Regular Savings Plan: Regular sums can be trans-
ferred from cheque or savings accounts to Wales
Unit Trusts.
If you’d like to know more about the success story
of Wales Unit Trusts, have a talk with the
manager of the nearest branch of the BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
WALES UNIT TRUSTS
Q26SA
last year, mainly to raise working capital.
The group has expansion plans on hand
but at present they have involved only
the acquisition of additional land.
Mount Isas Future
IVjR G. R. Fisher’s eagerly awaited
appraisal of Mount Isa Mines*
situation turned out to be a very
judicious and even relatively hopeful
document. Coming right on top of the
announcement of retention of the in-
terim dividend, it can surely bring some
cheer to shareholders (and to Australians
generally).
Directors were certainly wise “in view
of the resumption of operations” to admit
that no good purpose “would be served
in reviewing all the details of the strike”.
Nevertheless this abstention should not
be allowed to obscure the shattering
effect of the strike on Mount Isa and
the country at large.
Further support of the continuing
influence of Mount Isa’s retarded pro-
duction, and the halt in expansion, came
from directors of Metal Manufactures
Ltd, whose 1964 annual report quite
plainly said that “Australian copper
production will not be back to normal
for many months yet, and there is no
likelihood of the present £224 a ton sur-
charge being reduced until significant
tonnages are available from Mount Isa”.
Mr Fisher’s circular to shareholders
said that profit for the 1964-65 year
would be about £2.9 million—or 56 p.c.
of 1963-64's £5.2 million profit (this
£2.9 million could cover a full 10 p.c.
distribution the same as last year). He
says the strike has cost the company
£2.7 million in actual cash payments for
essential services, maintenance of the
mine and plant, and a higher than normal
cost of production.
This figure will probably rise to £4.5
million before there is a return to normal
production. Estimated market value of
metals not produced from the commence-
ment of the strike until full-scale opera-
tions are resumed will be about £29
million.
Bled Before Floating
As we warned at the time of the float
last year, Elmaco Industries’ profit
experience for the half-year to Decem-
ber 31, 1964, would best be treated
warily. In the result £117,000 was
earned in that period, about the same as
for the whole of the previous year.
Suspicions have been confirmed now
that the prospectus is released. The
investigating accountants say that profits


\
i
-
m
i
am
. mm
p 7%-r ->*
111
*3
Si
••,
-< rs
o
1
I dreamed I was hosing the garden one hot day when suddenly
the water pressure reduced to a mere frustrating trickle. I went
indoors, turned on the kitchen tap. Water came out all right
but rusty. My wife screamed from the shower that the water
in there was scorching her. I called the plumber. He said the
pipes were corroded needed replacing urgently all of
them. He quoted me a price. The shock woke me up.
And then I smiled with relief. I had already paid the plumber
for a quick clean installation job in copper.
The bill was about the same as it would have been for any
other kind of pipes, but copper is for keeps can t rust or
corrode ever. The water pressure’s wonderful now, and
always will be, thanks to copper. And because of our new
copper pipes our house is worth more. In short, copper pipes
mean 1 can now sleep easy at nights.
9
COPPER AND BRASS INFORMATION CENTRE
Anchor House, 234 George Street, Sydney. Tel: 27 84S8.
CB-82
for the half-year cannot be taken as
indicative of the full year’s result as
certain of the group’s products benefited
from a seasonal demand. Moreover, they
point out that any future profits would
have to bear extra depreciation and
interest charges because of the expansion
and modernisation planned. They say
no allowance had been made for these
items in the profit figures released by the
directors (and included in the prospectus).
The company intends to build a new
factory and install new machinery under
a scheme which will involve capital ex-
penditure of £356.000. Arrangements
have been concluded to borrow £200,000
and there are plans to find another
£50,000. When the new premises are
occupied in June, the old factory can be
sold to raise more cash. It is in the books
at £127,000.
Of course, all this borrowing would
not be necessary if the public float was
raising new cash. But it is merely putting
cash into the pockets of existing share-
holders and there will be nothing left
for the company itself. Who knows,
maybe these very shareholders are the
source of'finance for the new factory.
They have been given 1,950,000 ss.
shares as part consideration, the rest
being £420.000 cash. This will be raised
by the public issue of 1,050,000 ss. shares
at a premium of 3s. each. It seems
ironic, too, that as the majority of the
vendor shareholders would be the present
management, it is these very people who
are forcing the company into a borrow-
ing position. f
Ampol* s Good Half
A mpol Petroleum Ltd increased
profit 7 p.c. to £1,284,163 in the
half-year to March 31 compared with
the previous corresponding period.
During the six months, sales and other
revenue increased by 2f p.c., while
gallonage sales rose 7.29 p.c.
The latest profit increase is after
adjusting the previous corresponding
period's earnings for the higher company
tax rates, say directors. This time last
year profit was reported to be £1,244,485.
However, after adjustment for higher
tax, this figure comes back to about
£ 1,200,000/
Earnings to March this year remain
after £710,000 tax (previously £659,028)
and unstated depreciation (£829,436).
The profit includes the dividend from
the 41.8 p.c. interest Ampol holds in
B. F. Goodrich Aust. Pty. The payout
has been increased from 6 to 10 p.c.
which means that Ampol will receive
about £20,000 more than last year.
Ampol itself is holding its interim
dividend steady at 7 p.c., indicating con-


it
Fortunately in Australia
you do not have to put up
with this attitude
You have the right to take your custom to the
shop, supplier, or, indeed, bank that serves you
best. And a good thing, too, because where
there is competition between shops and manu-
facturers to attract your custom you have the
right to choose the product or service that
satisfies you. This is as it should be. In Aus-
tralia, we have many banks, competing for your
business, and this ensures that you, the cus-
tomer, have the right to choose the bank that
serves you best.
yes . . . every Australian benefits from competition between banks
FREE ENTERPRISE BANKS
The C.8.A., The National The C.8.C., The E.S.&A., The Adelaide,
The A.N.Z., The Wales
H239A
tinuance of the 14 p.c. rate paid for the
last five years.
The market is treating the shares with
considerable reserve and holding them
round the 10s. to 10s. 3d. level their
lowest for years. Apart from the general
market depression, investors are also
mindful of the expansion programme to
which Ampol is committed and which
will require a steep lift in earnings by
1968 to meet the higher dividend bill
of something more than £4 million.
Present requirement for the 14 p.c. pay-
out is about £2.3 million.
Sebels Sitting Pretty
Rebels, the tubular steel furniture
maker, almost doubled turnover in
the first three months of the current year,
chairman Mr G. J. M. Best told share-
holders at the annual meeting. Profit
showed a corresponding increase.
However, “despite continuous increases
in manufacturing capacity, the company
is barely able to keep ahead of demand”.
Mr Best said Sebels’ chairs were used in
more than 500 NSW clubs. Future
prospects justify enthusiasm, he added.
Sebels could find a substantial market
in Victoria when (and if) later hotel
closing is introduced for, in the words
of the Liquor Royal Commissioner, Mr
P. D. Phillips, QC, with trading extended
to 10 p.m. there would be an increase
in public entertainment in hotels with
music and dancing in lounges and the
patrons have to sit somewhere.
Grim Loss
no need for too much sur-
a prise if an inquiry is made into the
affairs of Simalex by either the Mel-
bourne Stock Exchange or the Victorian
State Government. The facts surround-
ing the recent reporting of a loss for
the December half-year are suspicious
enough, and numerous enough, for either
body to ask for a few explanations.
At last year’s annual meeting share-
holders were told that marked increases
were expected in group profits for the
current year. The electrical division
(whose problems were the main reason
for the six months’ loss) had been stream-
lined, and higher sales together with a
return to profits were expected some time
in the current year.
When the interim report did come, it
was nearly two months overdue. The
day before it was released 8000 put
options were taken out when the market
price was 9s. sd. Despite generally fall-
ing markets, the shares had maintained
this level for some time, probably


THE
SYDNEY WATER BOARD
Conversion and Cash
LOAN
Wmjo
For 7 Years
£si o/-%
For 10 Years
Unconditionally guaranteed by
the N.S.W. Government
An Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queensland,
Western Australia and Tasmania.
CONVERSION
Holders of Stocks and Debentures in Loans Nos. 67
(£3/5/-%, matured Ist May) and 134 (£4/15/-%,
maturing Ist June, 1965) are invited to renew their
investment in this new Loan offering HIGHER interest.
CASH INVESTORS
can secure the same favourable terms.
CONVERT OR INVEST
at any office of the Commonwealth Trading Bank;
Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of
New South Wales; Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney Limited; English, Scottish and Australian Bank
Limited; Rural Bank of New South Wales; through a
Stockbroker; or at the Sydney Water Board offices.
SYDNEY WATER
MW6O7
partially because takeover rumors were
circulating.
On the day of the report, but before
the announcement had reached the Stock
Exchange, the shares shed 2s. sd. to
finish at 7s. The obvious conclusion was
that a leakage of information had
occurred. On the day after the announce-
ment, the market chopped another 2s.
off the price.
Then a search of the company’s share
register revealed that the managing
director, Mr G. E. N. Tarrant, had sold
50,000 of his total 100,000-odd shares
back in February at Bs. 7d. He explained
that the sale had to be made to clear a
bank overdraft under an agreement with
his bank manager made more than a year
earlier.
As in this instance, the other sus-
picious circumstances surrounding the
case have already been answered by
statements to the Press. However, if
an official inquiry is considered necessary
by the powers that be, chit-chat with the
Press will hardly fill the bill.
Clear Road Ahead
Tt now seems definite that Freighters
A Ltd will pay a final dividend in the cur-
rent year. This was mentioned as a likely
possibility at last year’s annual meet-
ing. Now there are figures to back the
possibility up. In the December six
months a profit of £123,000 was earned.
On an annual basis, this is equivalent
to'an earning rate of 16.4 p.c., which
would be the group’s best result for some
time. It also seems feasible that a profit
of “at least £250,000” will be earned in
the full year, as also predicted at last
year’s annual meeting.
Whatever happens it is now on the
cards that the troubles of the last few
years are finished with. Better years are
ahead. The last dividend was 10 p.c.
in 1960-61, from low earnings of 12.3
p.c. The two following years brought
in bumper losses of £530,000 and
£41,000 respectively and financial re-
organisation was instituted. Last year’s
profit was £134,000, putting the com-
pany back on the road to recovery
although no dividend was declared.
Operations in the current year already
indicate that the recovery is a per-
manent one. The half-year’s result was
after higher depreciation and a tax pro-
vision of £34,000. No tax was necessary
last year because of the earlier losses.
However, a full tax liability has yet to
be incurred and will probably not come
until 1965-66, if then.
Turnover of the manufacturing plants
rose in the six months from £2.6 million
to £3.3 million, while orders on hand at
present ensure a satisfactory production


is this a single lens reflex?
Wk
Y
OLYMPUS-PEN |=
%
//
'A
firnmnirgni
no bulge!
no bulk!
yes!
it’s the revolutionary
Olympus Pen
The most significant step forward in the world of serious
photography since the first 35mm camera itself! A full-blooded
professional camera of highest mechanical and optical quality, com-
presses all the features of the conventional SLR into a spectacularly
compact and lightweight precision camera. Single frame image size
cuts down the bulk . . . totally new porro prism eliminates the bulge.
Brilliant viewfinder with high corner-to-corner contrast, instant return
mirror that swings sideways at twice the speed, complete choice of fully
automatic interchangeable lenses . . . including zoom.
More Pen-F exclusives include the solid titanium high-speed rotary
shutter that ends distortion of moving objects, synchronizes with bulbs,
or electronic flash at all speeds to 1/500. Non-spinning
shutter dial sets in either direction, couples to
accessory CdS meter.
Pen-F size is ideal for easy carrying, fast and steady
handling, unobtrusive shooting. Lenses are half the
size, a third the weight of. conventional 35mm SLR
lenses. Focusing is faster, more precise . . . and as
close as 14". Pen bayonet mount makes lens inter-
change fast, secure. Ask for FREE copy of indepen-
dent test report and price list.
Price with fl.B 38mm lens and case £64.10.0
Interchangeable lenses for Pen-F include 25mm f 4
Vvide angle, 100 mm f 3.5 telephoto and 50-9Qmm f 3.5
zoom, Full range of macro and micro accessories.
S9/C«/OS*»
T3IUIIM
FOR VALUE PRODUCTS
VINSON
volume for the rest of the year. New
business should soon be on the way from
an agreement recently completed with a
Japanese firm for the sole distribution
in Australia of its bus equipment. A
manufacturing agreement has also been
arranged and a scheme is in progress
which will eventually see Freighters pro-
ducing buses from Australian plants
in partnership with the Japanese group,
Hino Motors Ltd.
Grocer's Lower Profit
npHE hairline margin of profit in the
A retail grocery business, although
not pointed out in Moran and Cato’s
half-yearly report, is undoubtedly one of
the reasons for the group's slightly
lower profit in the six months to Janu-
ary. Directors say increased expenses
and a higher rate of tax caused the slip
in earnings. But with the grocery trade
becoming increasingly competitive each
day margins are coming under closer
scrutiny.
Directors say sales of the group’s re-
tail subsidiaries showed a moderate in-
crease during the period. Nevertheless,
group profit was slightly lower. They
say that since the close of the half year,
sales have continued to increase satis-
factorily. As previously announced
Moran and Cato has curtailed its whole-
sale activities. Last year the group
lifted profit by £20,889 to £453,038 to
give an earning rate of 15.6 p.c. on
which a steady 10 p.c. was paid.
The grocery trade will be severely
affected by the changeover to decimal
currency in February next year when the
halfpenny disappears from our coinage.
Full effects of the loss of this retailers’
friend will not be known until a year
later but Moran and Cato’s full 1965-66
result will show which way profit margins
have moved.
At their present price of 20s. Moran
and Cato’s shares are exactly double
par value and yield 5 p.c. from the
dividend and 7.9 p.c. on earnings. They
do not appear undervalued at this level.
Packager’s Record
JJnited Empire Box Co. Ltd, New
Zealand-based packaging company
which joined Australian share lists last
year, lifted group sales from £NZIO.I
million to a record of more than £ll
million in the year to March 31. Profit
for the year was higher than the
£NZ378,309 earned in 1963-64, although
figures have not yet been released.
The company gained listing last year
after a placement of 600,000 shares at


Associated National
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
moves to
NEW HEAD OFFICE
at 8-12 Bridge St., Sydney
Ist OCTOBER, 1965 .
The Associated National
Insurance Company
Limited will move to its
new address at 8-12
Bridge Street, Sydney,
on Ist October. The
impressive 12 storey
Associated National
House has been built by
the Company because
of its confidence in
Australia’s expanding
economy.
Our Company is the
Australian member of
one of Europe’s largest
Insurance Groups, the
strength of which is indi-
cated by assets of more
than £A500,000,000.
Recently, Associated
National introduced a
unique Life Assurance
contract The Instant
Multiple Bonus Policy.
Please ask us for a
il
i-
-0*
I
R I
rs
•s.
M'
i
brochure on that policy . . . Associated National’s
present Head Office address: 291 George Street. Tel. 29-3471.
13s. 6d. Australian with local investors.
It is represented in Australia through
Chiswick Containers Pty (80 p.c. owned),
Fiberlite Pty (51 p.c.) and Plaspak Pty.
UEB recently entered the wallpaper
business when it formed a company with
Lewis Berger and Sons (Aust.) Pty.
United Empire Box 6s. 3d. Aust.
shares are currently selling for 14s. 3d.,
where the dividend yield is 4.4 p.c.
Conquip Confident
Ltd, earthmoving equipment
distributor, lifted sales and profit in
the December half-year, a brief interim
report discloses. Directors say sales rose
28 p.c. and the sales volume has con-
tinued to March 31.
Orders in hand at the end of March
were 36 p.c. higher than at the end of
March last year. Directors add that they
are confident the full year’s result will
reveal a higher profit than the last full
result.
With the interim dividend steady at
5 p.c., the ss. shares, which are at present
selling at around 75., return 7.2 p.c. on
an annual 10 p.c. basis.
Uneasy Regent
IVlelbourne-based Regent Motors cer-
tainly shocked the share market
with its announcement, of a £22,000
loss for the six months to December 31.
At last year’s annual meeting the chair-
man had told shareholders that profits in
the September quarter had.risen above
those of the previous corresponding
period. Moreover, directors had earlier
indicated their faith in a highly profit-
able future by lifting the 1963-64 divi-
dend from 10 p.c. to 121 p.c., even
though profits had slipped badly from
£BO,OOO to £48,000 over the year. The
implications of their move were made
even stronger by the fact that the higher
dividend was uncovered by the earning
rate of 10.7 p.c. No interim dividend
will now be paid.
Obviously the loss of the Volkswagen
spare parts dealership has had a more
drastic effect than even the directors
expected. They dropped it after it was
apparent that the Volkswagen company
would be entering into direct competition
with Spencer Motors (a subsidiary) for
sales in Victoria and the Riverina. This
move followed on from the one in
January, 1963, when the Volkswagen
company took over the wholesale dis-
tribution of its cars in Victoria from
Regent. Cars dealt with now are Volvo,
Rover, Rambler and Renault mainly.
The future of the company seems very
cloudy now, despite the fact that profits
are being made in the current half.
Directors themselves admit that a far-
reaching reorganisation of the company
is necessary. They say this is already
being implemented. Several board
changes have been made in recent
months and, through dealings on the
share market, Clyde Industries has
boosted its shareholding from 49 p.c.
to 52 p.c., making Regent a subsidiary.
Directors also admit that results in the
short term may be below “those con-
sidered desirable”, although they are con-
fident that reorganisation will fix things
in the long term.
To the bystander it seems that a corh-
plete takeover by Clyde Industries would
be highly desirable, providing the price
is right. Or the group may choose to
follow the lead of many other dealers,
both public and proprietary, who have
found the going tough. This is, of
course, to join the swing to Japanese cars
and distribute or even assemble them for
the Australian market.


m
#ir
m
m
■
■i-
<? ■w ■
'
■
Spans Australia
We are one of the biggest freight organisations in Australia, travelling an immense network of roads,
with pick-up and delivery at most points. Ansett Freight Express really spans Australia, nation wide.
We like to be exact about your goods. We take care of them as if they were our own.
Whatever your transport requirement road, rail, sea or air; local, interstate or overseas,
you can’t do better than depend upon Ansett Freight Express.
We are willing and our prices are right. Perhaps that’s why we are one of the largest in the business.
ANSETT FREIGHT EXPRESS
A MEMBER COMPANY OF ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
PTY
LTD
PERTH 24 4926
MELBOURNE 68 0541
SYDNEY 67 0533
ADELAIDE 45 5337
CANBERRA 9 0193
ALICE SPRINGS 777
BRISBANE 47 1481
DEV ON PORT 2 2659
HOBART 8 4944
DARWIN 2957
NEWCASTLE 2 2155
LAUNCESTON 2 4791


SECURITY ANALYSIS
Federal Hotels More Attractive
Debt maturity problems being overcome
Now that the Menzies Hotel property
in Collins Street, Melbourne, has
been purchased by the AMP Society,
the Federal Hotels group could improve
its finances. Purchase price of the pro-
perty is £625,000 on May 1, 1968, and
the balance of £625.000 on July 1, 1970.
The first payment will go some way to
redeeming the £729,541 of 8 p.c. un-
secured notes due in 1968. The second
instalment would probably take care of
the remaining liabilities due prior to
June 30. 1969. consisting of £249,760
unsecured notes due in 1969, unpaid
purchase money on freehold property
£115,000 and mortgage loans of about
£lBO,OOO.
These amounts are taken from the last
published balance sheet and it is not
necessary that the proceeds of the Men-
zies sale should be applied in this man-
ner. The main point is that the problems
relating to debt maturities seem to have
been overcome as far as the next five
years are concerned and this should give
the group an opportunity to improve
profitability to the position that debt
conversions can be made with a certain
amount of confidence thereafter.
The news doesn't seem to have im-
pressed the share market to any extent.
During 1965. share prices have ranged
from 2s. 6d. down to Is. Bd., and cur-
rently sales have been taking place
around 2s. The improved profits in the-
first half of 1964-65 and the statement
that, given a continuance in the increase
in occupancy rates, the directors would
give consideration to the resumption of
dividend payments in the foreseeable
future also had little effect on the demand
for the ordinary shares.
Federal Hotels Ltd was formed in
1924 to take over the Federal Palace
Hotel in Collins Street and its first re-
construction took place in late 1936 when
the ordinary 20s. shares were written
down to 15s. and the preference dividend
was reduced to 6 p.c. from 8 p.c. and
the arrears cancelled. In 1953, the com-
pany started to develop the hotel chain.
The Hotel Alexander was purchased
in November and renamed the Savoy-
Plaza. Control of the Menzies Hotel
was obtained in 1954 and Ushers Hotel,
Sydney, was acquired in 1955. The next
year, the Wrest Point Riviera Hotel, Tas-
mania, was added to the chain, followed
in 1957 by the Hampton Court Hotel,
Sydney.
During 1957-58 a subsidiary was
formed to investigate and construct
licensed motels in country areas but it
would seem that this venture did not
proceed and the activities of this sub-
sidiary appear to have diverted to the
provision of catering services at Essendon
Airport, Melbourne.
After an unsuccessful attempt to
acquire the Australia Hotel, Sydney, in
July, 1959, the company entered into an
agreement with Project Development to
manage the new Menzies Hotel on its
completion in late 1963. At this stage,
apparently, the company received an
offer for the Ushers Hotel property and
the sale took place with possession given
in February, 1961. It is now apparent
that this was a wise move for there
would have been a substantial over-
supply of accommodation in that short
stretch of Castlereagh Street. Sydney,
which also holds the Australia and
Hooker’s Carlton-Rex.
Tf we are to judge by subsequent events,
A the next move (Which was :o
acquire the Lennons group of hotels)
seems to have been the point at which
the Federal chain's fortunes started to
decline. Whether the decline was due to
this acquisition or whether it w'as due
to other events w'ould be difficult to
assess. It seems fairly clear that the
Broadbeach Hotel has been a headache
but, on the other hand, the Brisbane
Hotel seems to have been very profit-
able. Perhaps the main problems have
been w'ith the Melbourne hotels w'here
competition has been extreme if the
directors’ reports of the various com-
panies are any guide. It is intriguing
to read that faster air travel has cur-
tailed stays by visitors to Melbourne.
One wonders whether Sydney has be-
come more attractive for reasons other
than its climate.
As a result of the costs of borrowing
including repayments and sinking fund
requirements, it is necessary for the
group to earn £330.000 before tax, de-
preciation and interest merely to satisfy
lenders and preference shareholders.
While net profit before tax, depreciation
and interest covered this figure about 2.8
times in 1959-60. the cover was reduced
to less than 1.5 times in 1963-64. If
the profitability level of 1959-60 could
be restored on the basis that the return,
from the Menzies, Sydney, is at least
equivalent to the return that was being
obtained from Ushers, then earnings
would be about £291,000 or about 8 p.c.
on the present ordinary capital. Allow-
ance has been made in this figure for the
Lennons group, which was not acquired
until after the close of 1959-60, by taking
the 1959-60 profits from the unsecured
note prospectus of April, 1963. The un-
known factors for the future are firstly,
the basis on w'hich Federal will continue
to operate the Menzies, Melbourne, and
whether there will be any rental payable;
secondly, the, basis on which the new
agreement with Wynyard Holdings wall
operate and the effect it will have on
Federal’s consolidated profits. Thirdly,
it still remains to be seen whether the
latest attempt to make the Broadbeach
Hotel profitable will succeed.
So far as can be judged at the present
time and bearing in mind that the Men-
zies, Melbourne, will probably be lost to
the chain by 1970, it is difficult to see
the earning rate improving much beyond
8 p.c. even though the likely rate for
1964-65 will be close to 61 p.c. On the
basis of the earnings yields for other
hotel companies, it would seem that the
price of Federal Hotels shares should be
somewhere between 4s. 3d. and 2s. lOd.
—probably nearer to the lower figure
since this would price the shares on a
basis close to the shares of the Windsor
Hotel and Wynyard Holdings. If the
company returns to the dividend lists this
year w'ith a 5 p.c. rate, the shares would
show a dividend yield of 121 p.c. and an
earnings yield of about 16 p.c. on the
current price of 2s.
Now that so much has been done to
meet future debt maturities, the shares
seem to be reasonably attractive at prices
up to 2s. 6d. providing that the investor
is willing to accept that hotels are un-
likely to achieve dynamic growth in. the
future.
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (£'000)
Year to June 30 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
Current assets 261 393 418 423 414
Current liabilities 882 1548 2455 1199 1178
Net working capital (612) (1155) (2037) (776) (764)
Fixed assets 4354 8532 8525 8722 8117
Investments 6 71 7 23 130
Intangibles 4 235 41 32
4364 8838 8532: 3786 8279
Represented by:
Neg. working capital 612 1155 2037 776 764
Loan capital 971 2238 >357 2890 2813
Minority interests 60 155 155 155 155
Preference capital 53 113 113 113 113
Ordinary capital 1691 3587 3607 3626 3626
Reserves 997 1590 1263 1226 808
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES (£'000)
Interest on loans 78 145 205 238 250
Depreciation, etc. 63 87 116 118 122.
Tax provided 236 196 181 129 99
Minority interests 5 5 10 10 10
Preference dividend 5 10 10 10 10
Earnings 320 237 253 191 108
Ordinary dividends 211 267 234 181
Surplus 109 (30) 19 10 108
Earning rate p.c. 18.9 8.9 7.0 5.3 3.0
Ord div. rate p.c. 12.5 10.0 6.5 5.0 —-
Dividend yield p.c. 5.8 7.3 5.9 7.2 —-
High price (a) 14/- 8/6 7/6 4/4 2/11
Low price (a) 7/7 5/3 3 6 2/6 1/4
(a)'Calendar year.


McHale's Navy (*BlO,OOO people viewing)
Disneyland (*660,000 people viewing)
Sunday Night at the Movies (*640,000 people viewing)
Burke's Law ( 610,000 people viewing)
The Fugitive (*610,000 people viewing)
The Addams Family (*590,000 people viewing)
Perry Mason (*570,000 people viewing)
The Lucy Show (*530,000 people viewing)
Zorro (*520,000 people viewing)
GOOD REASONS
WHY YOU CAN
SELL SYDNEY PEOPLE
* Independent surrey
22nd March - 4th April, 1965
ON
TCN
TCN
SYDNEY
STUDIO AND TRANSMITTER AT ARTARMON RD., WILLOUGHBY. 43 0444. SALES: SYDNEY,
Ist FLOOR, CRICKET HOUSE, GEORGE ST. 27 2881. MELBOURNE, 247 COLLINS ST. 63 8336.
TCN: P 465


GENERAL CREDITS
LIMITED
0
1/0
up to
5-10 years
DEBENTURE STOCK
(SECOND SERIES)
Applications can only proceed on the form
enclosed with the Prospectus which may be
obtained from any recognized stockbroker,
or any branch of the Commercial Bank of
Aust. Ltd., and all branches of
277 William St., Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
6830
Brokers to the issue:
lan Potter & Co.
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE£.BM.
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Blue-chip of the Builders
ARC Industries for growth
Ourveying a market where dividend
yields are at their highest point for
five years and where several leading in-
dustrial issues are returning as much as
6 p.c. for moneys invested, one comes
with surprise to the ss. shares of Mel-
bourne - based ARC Industries Ltd.
They are currently selling around the
10s. 6d. level and yielding only 3.5 p.c.
from the dividend. On this criterion the
shares are as blue-chipped as ACI, BHP
or ICIANZ, all currently yielding be 1
tween 3 p.c. and 3.5 p.c.!
This unusual situation is explained by
the fact that ARC has maintained a
relatively stable position in .a falling
market. The leaders have failed to do
this, so their yields are now “up there”
with ARC’s. In fact, since the shares
were split from 10s. to ss. units in 1962-
63, the narrowness of their movement is
little short of phenomenal, especially : n
the light of the company’s reliance on
the building industry. The accompanying
table shows a 3s. price variance in the
calendar year 1963, and .-only 2s. 3d.
for 1964. The range has been between
10s. sd. and 12s. this year.
What are the reasons behind this
stability at a price level which can only
attract the investor who is looking to
capital gains? *
One of the most important is un-
doubtedly the past history of issues to
shareholders. Even more than this, there
is the proven ability to maintain high
dividends and earning rates on bigger
post-issue capital. Registration as a
public company was in May, 1951. In
1954-55 a one-for-four par issue was
made. At the same time dividend was
lifted from 131 p.c. to 15 p.c. In 1956-57
came the first one-for-one bonus. It
doubled capital, but the 15 p.c. payout
was still maintained. Next came a one-
for-five issue at a 20s. premium in 1960-
61, on which dividends were also main-
tained.
In 1962-63, accompanying the share
split, came another one-for-one bonus,
made from a £1,166,000 revaluation of
shares in subsidiaries and the reserve
of share premiums arising from the 1960-
61 issue. Last year, a two-for-five issue
at a 2s. 6d. premium was made to finance
expansion, pay off borrowings and pro-
vide working capital. It raised £2.1
million. Since the 1962-63 bonus, divi-
dend has been only 73 p.c., and this
apparent falling off in performance leads
us to the next point.
The last two years have been the worst
for the company as far as earning rate
is concerned. It dropped from 32.1 p.c.
to a low of 13.5 p.c. after the bonus,
but recovered to a healthy 15.9 p.c. last
year. Actual profit in £ s. d. was a record
and another Is expected in the current
year. This imminent recovery to high
earnings is the second reason why the
share price has held. Prior to the 13.5
p.c. low, the worst year ever (despite all
those share issues) was 1957-58. It pro-
duced an earning rate of 27.2 p.c.
The third and final main reason for the
strength of the scrip is the enormous
potential for a higher dividend. This
arises in the light of the high and re-
covering earning rate and also in the
light of past dividend history. An in-
creased payout may very well come about
this year. The interim distribution was
a steady 3f p.c.
At last October’s annual meeting the
chairman, Mr K. F. Cox, told share-
holders that directors had considered
increasing the payout. They were aware
that “the dividend should remain in step
with the present-day value of money.
However, the expansion and develop-
ment programmes and the likely need to
finance heavy imports of steel and wire,
necessitate a conservative dividend
policy”. This statement may have pre-
cluded any possibility of a higher divi-
dend for the current year. It also verifies
that an increase will definitely be made
when earnings permit.
The company is still expanding at a
rapid rate and it should not be long be-
fore earnings climb back around the 30
p.c. mark. In mid-April, £1 million was
raised through a privately placed issue
of unsecured notes to finance the con-
tinuation of the group’s extensive capital
expenditure programme. This comes on
top of the £2.1 million already raised by
share issue in 1963-64.
The interim report last February said
sales had risen 30 p.c. for the December
half-year and profit margins had been
maintained. In the full 1963-64 year,
sales rose 22.5 p.c. to £12,955,000, but
profits put on 40 p.c. from £475,000 to
£667,000. However, a similar relation-
ship should not be expected in the
current year. It will still be encouraging,
but, like any other group operating under
high demand pressure, ARC has its
problems.
More than £1 million of raw materials
has already been imported, at a higher
cost than the home product. Wire and
steel has been mainly involved, more *o
guard against , expected shortages than
existing ones. Labor is in short supply
and providing a constant headache. Tax
will take more of the profits this year
than last year’s provision. Bad debts are
always a problem in the building in-
dustry, especially in NSW. The basic
wage rise will hit the company much
harder this year, too.
On a more general basis, expansion,
staffing of new plants and higher selling


ACCOUNTS
SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
Current assets
Less current
3220
3493
4020
4548
5891
liabilities
1665
1271
1570
2481
1931
—
—
—
—
Working capital
1555
2222
2450
2067
3960
Fixed assets
1919
2487
2790
3250
3649
3474
4709
5240
5317
7609
Ordinary capital
—
—
—
—
1335
1738
1742
3501
4450
Reserves
1302
2131
2439
902
1785
Pref. capital
60
60
60
60
60
Loan capital
777
780
999
854
1314
—
—
—
—
3474
4709
5240
5317
7609
Depreciation
76
109
117
131
150
Tax
355
403
386
340
461
Net profit
509
481
563
475
667
Dividends
195
243
265
267
268
Surplus
Ord. earning
314
238
293
208
399
rate
39.2
29.9
32.1
13.5
18:9
Dividend rate
15
15
15
1\
7J
Div. yield (a)
2.9
3.3
3.0
3:4
3.4
High price (b)
57/-
49/-
51/6
13/3
12/6
Low price (b)
35/3
34/9
12'8
10/3
10/3
(a) Find September, month results announced.
(b) Calendar year.
SCIENCE
OVRHAULS
WHILE-U-DRIVE
ADD IN PETROL OR OIL OR
PLUG HOLES
Up to 95% Savings
By its expanding action INCREASES petrol
powecomp-ession up to 15 lb. per cyl.
GOOD for thousands of miles. GUAR,
harmless to finest engine. Oyrhauls worn
main bearings, big ends, gudgeons, etc.,
noisv diffs. and gears.
e SAV ES -U - EXPENSIVE rebore recon-
ditioning job.
» SAVES. ELIMINATES piston slap, rattles,
oil and petrol waste.
o SAVES carbon and desludging.
o. SAVES ring wear and maintenance.
© SPREADS anti-friction expanding ad-
ditive between METAL to METAL sur-
OVRHAUL NU-Metal No. 4 contains a
secret formulated catalyst chemical.
CHARGES of action within the petrol
make it impossible to plug any fuel lines.
NOTHING can compete with Ovrhaul Nu-
MetM No. 4 success. No charge—No results
PROVEN. 1. 2,4, 6, 8 cylds., 15/6, 30/-,
60'-, 70/-, 80/-. YOU DO NOT NEED AN
OIL CHANGE.
Paint your own car any color; 99/6.
indicate colour We also
sell WELDERS AND ELECTROPLATERS:
£lO each. Also FIT-RITE clear acrylic jelly
plastic. One application makes all dentures
fit-rite for life. Not a bulky substance or
powder; price 40/-. Open Saturday morn.
Sold only by Re-Nu Co. (estab. 1932), 58
Swan St., opp. Richmond Stn.. Victoria.
42-1755.
I enclose £ for
or send free
particulars on
including 2 for 1 selling campaign.
NAME
ADDRESS
“Bui."
i
! ‘fcS
m
: mi
i
I
When you work with
words, work with D.M.C.
Call one of the key personnel at
D.M.C. He will make a comprehensive
survey without cost or obligation and
then give expert advice on the dictat-
ing equipment best suited to your
needs. Contact our Survey Section
. . . phone 26-6951 (ext. 101) NOWI
(5 won- gxaeto,
DICTATING MACHINE CENTRE
dmc
R. B. WYPER PTY. LTD.
176 Day Street, Sydney
Phone 26-6951
in all States
Users of d.m.c. service include: Ansett-
A.N.A.; Ford; Rothmans; Royal Princa
Alfred Hospital; Shell.
activity have all been boosting group
administrative and selling expenses. A
steady eye is kept on them, though. Last
year, net profit improved as a percentage
of sales from 4.5 p.c. to 5.2 p.c.; it was
still well below the 6 p.c. achieved in
1961-62.
The group today operates in all States
through 13 subsidiaries. In addition,
there are six non-trading subsidiaries,
four of which were in voluntary liquida-
tion at balance date last year. The 13
operating subsidiaries together handle
the products of 17 manufacturing plants.
In Victoria, NSW, Queensland, SA,
WA and Tasmania the six nucleus
subsidiaries are sited, plus Dynes Pty
Ltd in NSW, acquired in 1960-61. These
seven handle the group’s steel reinforcing
and wire products. The two EPM Con-
crete subsidiaries (Vic. and NSW), also
acquired in 1960-61, moved the group
into the manufacture of prestressed and
precast concrete products. Producing
aluminium windows, insect screens and
louvres are ARC Insect Screens (Vic.),
A. F. Agnew (Vic. and NSW), and ARC
Glass (NSW).
The accompanying table summarises
financial history for the last five years
and proves an interesting exercise. Work-
ing capital is at a best-ever level, thanks
to an unfaltering growth every year in
current assets and an ability to keep
current liabilities to a minimum. Quite
apart from having plenty of cash to ser-
vice the business, the high working
capital has enabled the level of tempor-
ary borrowings to be kept down. Last
year a £1,250,000 unsecured note issue
was cut to £850,000 at the last minute
when it was realised that all the cash
could not be gainfully employed.
Fixed assets, along with the deprecia-
tion figures, show a history of steady
expansion. This is also reflected in the
upward trend shown for ordinary capital
and loan capital. Higher earnings have
enabled large post-dividend plough-backs
to reserves, as evidenced by their re-
covery since the latest one-for-one bonus.
They will soon be climbing back to paid-
capital level again.
Profits show a yo-yo tendency, depend-
ing on the fortunes of the building in-
dustry. However, it should be noted that
the type of construction work undertaken
precludes to a large extent such catas-
trophes as uncovered dividends or losses.
And, of course, the very management of
the company deserves merit here, too,
especially as much of the work involves
contracts, dangerous documents for the
inexpert.
To sum up: definitely not an income
stock despite the fact that higher divi-
dends are likely next year at latest. There
are plenty of better yielders in the mar-
ket. Buying for capital growth within
the next two or more year* would be the
best motive for a purchase. Prices will
rise with any general market recovery;
the record current year expected for the
company.will also help, and any divi-
dend lifts will also help take the scrip
higher. Another shareholders’ issue can
be expected within two or three years
at the outside, in the light of past history
and future expansion. However, the days
of the one-for-one bonus are gone for
good, especially after the effects of the
last one.
LOWES LTD
The Careful Specialist
Mid-city men’s wear retailer, Lowe’s
Ltd, has managed to avoid many of
the pitfalls of its competitors during the
past and, last year, capped a difficult
trading period with a record profit.
The company began as a partnership
just before the turn of the century. The
present name was registered in 1911.
Public listing was not achieved until late
in 1948 when 150,000 ss. shares were
issued to the public at 17s. 6d., lifting
paid-up capital to £142,298.
Capital growth has been steady,
mainly by bonus issues—a three-for-five
in 1949 and a one-for-one in 1955. A
small issue to the vendor of a property
at Bankstown in 1962 lifted the capital
to the present paid-up figure of
£462,854.
The company’s main store is in
George Street, Sydney, near the Town
Hall, but early in its history it spread
to country and suburban areas. The
first branch store was at Newcastle,


ACCOUNTS SUMMARY
o
o
p
January 31
February
28
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
Current assets
451
479
574
625
665
Less current liabilities
,. 322
349
470
542
583
Working capital
129
130
104
83
82
Fixed assets
1227
1247
1269
1325
1379
Represented by:
1356
1377
1373
1408
1461
Capital
455
455
463
463
463
Capital reserves
423
423
427
427
427
Other Reserves
374
402
421
449
492
Loans
104
97
62
69
79
1356
1377
1373
1408
1461
Depreciation
17
23
*27
16
19
Taxation
25
44
*47
51
76
Net profit
50
67
*79
86
104
Dividend
30
40
*48
50
50
Surplus
20
27
*31
36
54
Dividend p.c.
6
8
(a)9J
10
10
Earning p.c.
10.9
14.7 (<
3)15.8
18.7
22.5
Dividend yield (b)
4.7
4.7
4.7
4.8
5.3
High price (c)
7/6
9/9
10/6
11/10
11/-
Lew price (c) 6/-
* For 13 months period,
(a) Annual rate.
7/-
8/9
9/11
9/6
(b) End of April, month accounts
(c) Calendar year.
presented.
o
t
WHO SAID THE SWISS HAVE NO KINGS OR QUEENS?
The King is you, sir. The Queen is you, madame, when you
fly Swissair, that fast-travelling, world-encompassing outpost
of Swiss charm.
Once you’re in the hands of the Swissair people you receive
the royal treatment. The world calls it Swisscare. Their
jet-fleet receives very special Swisscare, too!
Swissair flies to 67 cities in 41 countries. How many coun-
tries will you visit on your next trip? You can be sure the
most convenient and rewarding way to go is by Swissair.
See your Travel Agent—he knows all about Swisscare.
A warm welcome awaits you aboard.
SWISSAIR
SWiSSCARE • WORLDWIDE
General Agents: Australia —Ansett-A.N.A.
New Zealand and Pacific Islands —Air New Zealand
on
invest in
Debentures &
Unsecured Notes
Interest up to
7
1
O
2
o
HOW TO INVEST Applications are to be made on
the form attached to the Prospectus available from:
• Any Branch or District Office of The Mutual Life & Citizens’
Assurance Company Ltd.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
• Any branch of Alliance Holdings or of its Subsidiary Companies.
ALLIANCE HOLDINGS LIMITED
SYDNEY: Shell House, 2 Carrington Street. 29-7641.
MELBOURNE: 636 St. Kilda Road. 51-1241.
BRISBANE: 509 Queen Street. 31-1951.
ADELAIDE: 50 Grenfell Street. 8-6131.
PERTH: 177 St. George’s Terrace. 21-5907.
WOLLONGONG: Cnr. Crown Street & Railway Parade. 2-5657.
NEWCASTLE: 484-486 Hunter Street. 2-4112.
CANBERRA: Cnr. London Circuit & Petrie Street. 4-1291.
AAI67
built in 1916, while the first suburban
store was established at Parramatta in
1932.
The company now operates three city
stores, eight in the suburbs (the most
recent at Caringbah, established last
year) and one each at Newcastle and
Wollongong.
Although directors have fully appre-
ciated the need to open new stores in
growing suburbs, they have examined
many prospects and have gone ahead
with new ventures only when all indica-
tions are favorable.
As a result, despite operating in a
highly competitive business, the company
has traded profitably since before the
war. Since flotation it has paid a divi-
dend every year except in 1960 when
profit was cut severely.
Part of this decline in the 1959-60
year was caused by diversification out
of the traditional men's wear retailing
into women's clothing and electrical
appliance retailing. However, when early
hopes were not realised and losses
occurred, the board acted promptly, cut
its losses and closed the departments.
Since the return to the field in which
it has built its reputation, the company
has shown a rapid increase in profita-
bility, capped by last year’s record
figures.
Earnings for the latest year came out
at £104,293 (the first time they have
exceeded £100,000) and were equaMo
22.5 p.c. on capital, more than twice
covering the 10 p.c. dividend payment,
distributed for the secoqd successive
year. In the previous year profit was
£86,470 equal to 18.7 p.c. The latest
result was after lifting tax provision
from £51,000 to £76,000 and deprecia-
tion from £16,122 to £19,389.
The latest accounts, made up to Febru-
ary 28, show the company slightly less
liquid than a year earlier and still rely-
ing, to a large extent, on short-term
loans from customers and temporary
loans repayable at call. These appear
at £256,486 —£25,878 higher than a year
earlier. Should credit conditions be-
come tight, this could be of some
embarrassment to directors.
During the year, the proportion of
credit sales compared with cash sales
rose slightly, but directors say that they
are kept under very strict control, and
the provision, equal to about 15 p.e. of
debtors, appears adequate.
The reserve position is strong, and,
with no intangible items in the accounts,
net assets backing for each ss. share is
now 15s. 4d. Capital reserves are almost
sufficient for a one-for-one bonus should
earnings permit.
The shares are currently selling below
10s. and at this ievel could be a sound
lock-away proposition despite unsatis-
factory results from some of its oppo-
sition retailers.


i
CHEVRON HOTEL’S
GOLDEN GRILL
Compliments your good taste
In an atmosphere of gracious
living, the food, cellar and service
are supreme. Whether in a hurry
or with time to tarry, the service
keeps pace with your wishes. A
snack, a sumptuous repast, a cof-
fee, an aperitif, all are available
from morn till midnight. The
menu is varied, reasonable in cost,
and handsomely presented. The
wine list is recognised as one of
the most comprehensive in Aus-
tralia. In the evening Alexander
Grant’s ensemble provides plea-
sant background music and invites
your personal request. The inex-
pensive luxury of the GOLDEN
GRILL is yours all day, every
day.
For table reservations phone 35.0433
CHEVRON HOTEL
MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY.
CHEV/19988
A. L NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street. Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761
(4 lines)
P.O. BOX
No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH:
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Moves on a Lame Market
Doing a little bit for turnover
A fter looking at recent quotes and
turnovers, it may not be long before
the Stock Exchange takes unorthodox
steps in an attempt to boost business!
At least I’m still doing my bit for
turnover. I began the week with ICI
rights, which looked good selling when
they first came on the market at about
13s. 6d. The ICI issue—l-for-6 at 30s.
—has been made out to be a lot bigger
than it really is. One paper said £lO
million, and strictly speaking that is
correct. But £6 million of the £lO mil-
lion will come from the parent company
in England. The -balance is payable in
three equal instalments of 10s. a share,
so that the initial call on the local market
is for less than £1.5 million. The market,
however, preferred to be awed by the £lO
million figure and it was not long before
the rights were down to 12s. 3d.
At that price I not only bought back
the 500 I’d shorted at 13s. 3d. but also
bought another 500 for good measure.
I may have been a little premature in
my buying, yet I don’t think so. The
fully paid shares have come all the way
down from 60s. to 435. this year. If I
were a longer-term investor (perish the
thought!) I’d rather be buying ICI at
435. than BHP, even at 495.
BHP has been brought into the news
again with its fall to under 50s. Even
Sydney’s most respected financial editor
feels the market has gone too far this
time and that sellers will live to regret
the day. Perhaps he’s right, though in
these days of caution I’ll wait for the
BHP market to show' some more obvious
signs ot strength before I plunge in.
One cannot, of course, suspect the
directors of BHP of anything but fair
play. In fact they have been rock steady
in their policy of methodically increasing
the dividend by a halfpenny a share.
The same cannot be said about Sima-
lex. I had the misfortune to buy rights
in this company in December, 1962, at
a price of 3s. 3d. An earning rate of
19 p.c. for the previous financial year,
together with an increase in sales in the
then current year, were the reasons be-
hind my purchase.
In due course it turned out that I’d
paid just about the top price. The mar-
ket w'as shocked some six months later
when it was disclosed that earning rate
for 1962-63 turned out to be only 13
p.c.
Until a few weeks ago Simalex shares
w'ere one of the very few that were
within a few pence of their all-time high.
On reflection, the price of 9s. 6d. was
abnormally high in the present market
when one considers the company’s
erratic record, its earning rate of still
only 14 p.c. and remembers that the
interim report was two months overdue.
But there were enough takeover rumors
floating around to cause several call
options to be taken at the time.
The slide in the share price started
two days before the announcement of a
loss for the first half-year. This loss
contrasts glaringly with the chairman’s
address in mid-November, in which it
was confidently anticipated that earning
rate would show a further satisfactory
increase. For all those shareholders who
are now 4s. a share poorer, it’s difficult
to know what to do.
Simalex is now selling about par, even
though it has incurred its loss and is
not paying a dividend. On the other
hand, Hunt Bros is making profits and
is paying dividends, yet its share price
is only half its par value. That means
it is just one-fifth of its 1960 market
price.
Admittedly the trend in profits has
been pretty disappointing. This could
well change if the new Ford models
catch on. Those new Falcons going non-
stop for 70,000 miles seem one way of
attracting the attention of car buyers
as well as having the side effect of
creating innumerable records. The 1000
Hunt Bros I bought were purchased at
2s. sd.
Leaving the portfolio this week were
the 200 AWA (which were bought back
at 245. 3d), the 400 Pongrass and the
400 STP Holdings. The total of these
transactions was a £1 loss. Most un-
fortunate, that fire at Pongrass; so I
thought it best to watch from the side-
lines for a while.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
400 STP Holdings, 8/8 £169
400 Pongrass Holdings, 9/6 £lB5
500 ICI rts, 13/3 £326
BOUGHT
1000 ici rts, 12/3 £627
1000 Hunt Bros, 2/5 £126
200 AWA, 24/3 £248
This bounced the balance up at the
end of the week to £642.
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1000 United Telecasters
"(put option) 6/1/65 11/- 8/-
400 Tableland Tin 18/3/65 37/6
1000 Macquarie Worsted 25/3/65 4/11 5/6
1000 Loloma, ctg 6/4/65 12/6 12/6
500 Ferris 7/4/65 6/- 6/-
1000 Transoil 12/4/65 1 Ud. 1/0
1000 United Telecasters_ 21/4/65 8/- 8/-
400 Stott & Underwood 21/4/65 5/6 5/6
500 ICI rts 28/4/65 12/3 12/3
1000 Hunt Bros 28/4/65 2/5 2/5


THE MAN ON THE LAND
Reform in the Poultry Industry?
Need for the full facts on CEMA
/Yverproduction is the chronic ill
” afflicting the Australian poultry in-
dustry and it all largely came about
during World War 11. In 1939 total egg
production came to about 152 million
dozen. It was to increase rapidly be-
cause of the war-time demand for pulped
and whole eggs to feed the Australian,
and later American, armies. Britain’s
food troubles were eased by Australian
eggs and these shortages continued for
some years after the war.
By 1949 Australian egg production
had reached 204 million dozen. Some
17 million dozen were exported (whole)
and 39 million went into pulp.
Production has stayed high ever since,
though exports have fallen away badly.
Eggs are still exported, yet nearly always
at a loss. To all intents and purposes
there is no such thing as an export mar-
ket for Australian eggs, despite valiant
efforts to promote them in such places as
Tahiti.
Unfortunately, poultry and eggs are
the easiest of all foods/*to produce in
underdeveloped nations. Asia, in par-
ticular, has all the fowls it needs (readers
of “The Ugly American” will recall the
hilarious episode of the Rhode Island
Reds).
Any statistics on egg production are
incomplete, due to the number of poultry
farmers who operate outside Egg Board
control. Estimates of current overpro-
duction range from four million eggs a
week (unhappily misprinted as four mil-
lion a year in these columns a few weeks
Lack) to eight million a week.
If we all consumed half an egg to
an egg extra a week the troubles (for
the poultry farmer) would disappear.
This adds up to about four dozen extra
a year. Australians already eat at least
16 dozen a year (every man, woman and
child) and probably more. There can be
no definite figure because this 16 dozen
represents only eggs supplied through
the Egg Boards.
Even a cursory examination of shop-
ping habits reveals that increasing num-
bers of Australians are buying eggs from
non-Egg Board suppliers. These non-
Egg Board suppliers are the ones which
the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities
plan will “bring into line”.
There are even stranger aspects to
this plan than the fact that apparently
it is to be pushed through without a
referendum of poultry farmers. One
allegation, is that even poultry farmers
do not know the full details and those
that have tried to obtain them from Egg
Boards (in all States) have been denied
these details.
Naturally, any primary produce plan
will have opponents. But these two par-
ticular criticisms (lack of a referendum
and lack of information) seem, on the
surface, rather serious.
If there is a valid reason, then now is
the time for someone to say so and
to say why. It is alleged that Egg Boards
have given themselves powers far beyond
those originally envisaged; that they have
become ever-expanding bodies adding to
the cost of eggs. The old Public Service
story again—Parkinson’s Law operating
in the fowlyard!
There are a lot of questions which
could be asked at an open hearing. Yet
the entire CEMA planning has been con-
ducted behind closed doors. Why?
What strikes this writer as the worst
aspect of CEMA altogether revolves
around what might be termed a moral
issue. Broadly speaking, the poultry
farmers who are going to be hurt most
by this plan are New Australians.
Now New Australians come in for a
lot of abuse which they do not really
deserve. Certainly there are Italian
racketeers and standover men. There are
Australian standover men and racketeers,
too.
We need these migrants—we have bent
over backwards to encourage them to
come to this country. Many get exploited
in market gardening and the poultry
business by their own rapacious country-
men, and by rapacious Australians.
The “racket - buster” from the FBI,
imported by Victorian Chief Secretary
Mr Arthur Rylah to clean up the fruit
and vegetable marketing troubles in Vic-
toria, has prepared a dossier on Mafia
activities in Australia. Of course some
criminal types have come here from
Italy. It is bad enough that this dossier
on Mafia-type activities has been leaked
to the Press. It is worse that practically
no other criminal element in Australia
appears to have been given a mention.
This writer’s observation of Italian,
and other southern European, poultry
farmers is that they work a lot harder
than their Australian counterparts. Some
of them have built up from almost
nothing. In a more kindly disposed
environment their activities would be
praised instead of criticised.
That does not mean that the relatively
few racketeers should not be appre-
hended, as they say. Currently the Vic-
torian CIB is investigating the Italian
market gardening fraternity. The en-
couraging side to this episode is that, on
all reports, the man in charge is regarded
highly for his tact and understanding,
and is not likely to get carried away.
The New Australian poultry farmers
like to mind their own business and to
do their own business. Many came from
countries where they had their fill of
boards and regimentation. Many find
difficulty in understanding all the paper
work demanded by the Egg Boards. So
they sell their eggs where they can.
Most of us are pretty hypocritical
about this. We will quite happily accuse
foreign types of causing all the trouble
in Australia and will do so over a
meal in a foreign restaurant where we eat
food grown by foreigners and served by
them. It tastes so much better, does it
not? x
So many of the poor foreign-born
poultry farmers are going to be put out
of business by the CEMA plan. That’s
what they say. If they are wrong, then
let’s have the facts.
There’s the punch line. The big poultry
meat firms which have blossomed in
the last couple of years are going to be
exempted from the CEMA bird tax,
even though many of these huge factory
concerns produce thousands of eggs.
Why are they to be exempted? Be-
cause they have important (Australian-
born, naturally) men on their boards of
directors?
It is high time that the full facts about
CEMA were revealed.
Few people today would deny primary
producers the same protective rights as
any other section of the community.
Without marketing stability primary pro-
ducers can be reduced to peasantry
yet any such plan must be arrived at
through democratic process surely?
The Federal Government is being
strangely inconsistent on CEMA. It
insisted (rightly) that woolgrowers must
first agree (through their own organisa-
tions) on the reserve price proposal and
that the final decision must be made by
woolgrowers, irrespective of organisa-
tional affiliations, at a referendum. Yet
it would appear that CEMA will go
through without a referendum and with-
out any consultation with a large section
of poultry farmers, possibly the most
efficient section.


Now available
with ~a midw range . of
msm
: :i
wmm
m
■ .. :
m
S:$*SP
Tapered smoothly over the entire length for
streamlined beauty, this new type of Tubular
Steel pole has a very wide range of uses that
will appeal specially to architects and engineers.
Here are some of the main advantages:
1, Being of circular cross section and even wall
thickness throughout, they offer superior
resistance to wind forces and ensure maxi-
mum strength for carrying of top fitments.
2. High resistance to corrosion due to absence
of corners and flat surfaces.
3. Painting maintenance reduced.
4. Adaptability - suitable for Lighting, Sign-
posts, Flag Poles, TV Antennae Masts,
Telephone and Telegraph Poles and many
other structural purposes.
5.. Tapered tubes are supplied in straight
lengths ready for fabrication to the required
use.
Your local Stewarts and Lloyds branch invites
enquiries for sizes and further details. Please
send for FREE booklet.
STEWARTS AND LLOYDS (DISTRIBUTORS) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Cairns, Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin, Alice Springs, Launceston. AGENCIES: Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
5L2250
Amending the Wool Plan
Sir William Gunns chance to interpret
Oir William Gunn, without doubt, is
in world championship class when
it comes to getting up off the floor. A
few months back he took a compulsory
count when he had to curtail his radio
broadcasts in support of reserve price
selling for wool. The Logan Downs
challenge to promotion was in the offing
and it did not look too good for the big
fellow.
But Logan Downs lost its case (in
pretty quick time) in the High Court,
The Wool Industry Conference agreed
(in quick time) that the reserve price
issue should go to a referendum and
that the voting qualification should be
ten bales minimum. The air has been
cleared.
Yet a subtle change appears to have
come over the wool industry. One year
ago reserve price could have gone to
a referendum and most growers, whether
for or against, would have regarded it
as some kind of panacea. Now they
are likely to regard it more as a barri-
cade against rising costs.
The costs problem is beginning to
assume even more awesome proportions
than the slump in wool prices. There’s
always a reasonable hope that wool
prices may pull up or at least level out.
What can you do about costs?
Mr McEwen has spelled it out: wool-
growers can no longer regard the Gov-
ernment as a benevolent shield against
rising industrial costs. Mr Hawke, the
trade unions’ counsel, has already spoken
of primary producers as being “the most
pampered section of the Australian com-
muni tv”.
Where primary producer organisations
have squabbled in the past, the lines of
a new battle may be discerned —primary
producers versus the trade unions and
urban demands generally.
This could be Sir William Gunn’s big
moment. He is to make tours throughout
the country soon to urge woolgrowers to
vote in support of reserve price at the
referendum. In the course of these
tours he may not convince all his
hearers that they should vote in favor
of reserve price. He will, quite un-
intentionally even, convince many that
he is a good man to have on their side.
Gunn possesses that capacity. He is
not a brilliant speaker, though he can
hold an audience, and he has a sense of
humor to carry him over the rough
patches.
He has always shied off the question
whether he wants to enter the wider
sphere of politics. Then he’s never
rejected it out of hand, either.
Unity of primary' producer organisa-
tions may still be a distant thing, yet
it’s coming. Everything points that way.
Provided primary producers achieve that
unity in a democratic manner, then the
move can only be described as a per-
fectly natural progression.
Things may have been better in the
old days. These are not the old days.
The wool industry has had so much
criticism, from people in it as well as
people outside it, that the real develop-
ments perhaps have been overlooked.
The decision of the most recent Wool
Industry Conference in setting the voting
qualification at ten bales—on a one-man-
one-vote basis —is a noteworthy achieve-
ment and one in which Gunn played a
major part. It seems eminently fair and
thoroughly democratic.


MATHEMATICS TEACHERS REQUIRED FOR 1966
Groduate teachers of mathematics with some
experience at either university or upper second-
ary school level. There will also be a vacancy
for a graduate in mathematics with little or
no experience in secondary schools.
Apply in writing to:
The Headmaster, Cranbrook School, Victoria
Road, Bellevue Hill, N.S.W.
SCHOOL SISTER
A vacancy will exist at the beginning of Term 2
for a fully trained Resident Nursing Sister.
Apply
in
writing to:
THE HEADMASTER,
CRANBROOK SCHOOL,
VICTORIA ROAD,
BELLEVUE HILL, N.S.W.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: FRANCIS GEOFFREY TIERNEY. TAKE
NOTICE that EVE-ANN TIERNEY has filed a
Petition No. 265 of 1965 for a dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of (1) desertion,
(2) cruelty and (3) drunkenness. If you wish
to defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the 14th day of May, 1965, and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
HUNT AND HUNT, Solicitors, 48 Macquarie
Street, Parramatta. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: BERNARD McMAHON. TAKE NOTICE
that MARY McMAHON has filed a Petition
No. 557 of 1965 for Divorce on the grounds of
desertion and drunkenness and the Court will
be asked to make the decree notwithstanding
the facts and circumstances set out in the
petitioner’s discretion statement filed therein.
If you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sj’dney, on or
before the 15th day of June, 1965, and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
JAMES L. DIAMOND & CO., Solicitors, of
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: JOAN NELSON late of Dee Why and Lind-
field. TAKE NOTICE that RONALD NELSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1458 of
1965 on the grounds of desertion and/or
separation notwithstanding the facts and
circumstances set out in the discretion state-
ment filed therein. If you wish to defend you
may file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
or before the 23rd day of June, 1965, and
obtain a copy of the Petition and Notice of
Petition without charge from GREGG MILNE
& CO., Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: EUGENE TOTH, late of Mackay, Queens-
land. TAKE NOTICE that ESTHER TOTH
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 963 of
1965 on the ground of desertion and/or separa-
tion. If you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the 9th day of June. 1965, and obtain a copy
of the Petition and Notice of Petition with-
out charge from GREGG MILNE & CO.,
Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: PETER JOHN McGLONE TAKE NOTICE
that MARGARET MARY McGLONE has filed
a Petition herein in Suit No. 402 of 1965 for
divorce from you on the grounds of desertion
and failure to pay maintenance. If you Wish
to defend or to be served with further pro-
cess you may file an Answer or a Notice of
Address in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court. Old Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the second day of July,
1965, and obtain a copy of this Petition from
LANE & LANE, Commerce House, 161 Clarence
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
HELP
LEGACY
all the year
round "
How will the voting go? As a gambling
man this writer would frame the reserve
price market thus: 2/1 on in favor
Western Australia, 6/4 on Victoria and
Queensland, even money South Australia
and Tasmania, 6/4 against NSW. A
bookmaker would not frame such a
market, of course. He’d get off his stand
and go for a walk.
The vital factor may be the “three
per cent” clause in the amended reserve
price plan recommended by the Govern-
ment. It is not quite clear really what
Mr Adermann, Minister for Primary In-
dustry, meant on this particular aspect
of the plan. Many woolgrowers have
interpreted it to mean that deductions
from their wool cheque will not exceed
three p.c. in any one year. Out of this
three p.c. (maximum) deduction will
come the woolgrower share of funds for
underwriting the reserve plan and paying
for promotion and research.
If there isn’t enough available to
support the reserve plan, then “adjust-
ments will be made from other com-
ponents”. In other words, funds will be
diverted from promotion to help support
reserve price marketing.
If this is the correct interpretation,
then the betting market stands. If it is
not, and if woolgrowers will be slugged
more than three p.c., then the market
would have to be revised.
Woolgrowers will have plenty of time
to ask Sir William for his interpretation
before the referendum takes place later
this year.
A Demand for Leaner Beef
Catering for a European market
Australian beef industry may have
to evolve breeds yielding leaner meat
if it is to realise the tremendous potential
offering in Western Europe. The Western
European nations, Italy being a prime
example, offer a huge and rapidly ex-
panding market for a country which can
supply large and regular shipments of
suitable beef. A gap has been created
by the Argentine’s failure to meet her
export commitments. It is widening each
year as per capita meat consumption
rises by as much as 20 p.c. per annum.
Australia has already won»a valuable
toehold in the promising Italian market.
Italy is already the third largest meat-
importing nation in the world and will
soon be the second biggest. Each year
she buys meat worth well over £lOO
million. About 200,000 tons of this
come in fresh or as livestock for
slaughter from Yugoslavia, France and
the Netherlands. But 100,000 tons con-
sist of chilled or frozen beef and about
50,000 tons of manufacturing beef. It
is this last section of the market that
Australia has invaded in the last 18
months to 2 years.
Two years ago our meat sales to Italy
were negligible. This year they are ex-
pected to top £lO million, a jump of
nearly ten times in a year. This £lO
million represents about a quarter share
of the manufactured meat business in
Italy and every indication is that the
trade will be permanent.
We have also a £2 million stake in
the supply of meat provisions to Italian
shipping—a business we will continue to
dominate as long as we can keep the
scourge of foot-and-mouth out of Aus-
tralia. (Italian ships must use meat from
foot-and-mouth-free areas if they wish to
call at United States ports.) Yet if we
wish to enlarge our tantalising and
already lucrative foothold in the Italian
meat trade, and extend it into other
meat-hungry and prosperous Western
European nations, we must pay more
attention to European tastes.
The European likes his meat lean,
especially if he cooks it in oil as does
the Italian. An Italian simply cannot
stand the sight of fat oozing out of meat
into his cooking oil. At the moment
Italy takes our leaner second and third
grade beef. Even this is not always lean
enough for the European taste. Similar
complaints are often made of Australian
meat by importers in the eastern Mediter-
ranean and Middle Eastern areas.
The Australian beef industry may well
be now facing the biggest opportunity in
its history to win a large, regular and
lucrative market in Western Europe. To
seize this opportunity and hold it, it must
do two things: it must be able to guaran-
tee regular and adequate supplies and
it must tailor its meat more closely to
its customers’ liking.


the pattern of life today...
news
personalities
politics
[books
arts
world events
finance
SUBSCRIPTIONS
26 weeks £2/12/- Aust.
£2/2/- Stg. and N.Z.
52 weeks £4/4/- Aust.
£3/7/- Stg. and N.Z.
Send dollar equivalents
to New York and Malay-
sian offices.
Air Mail New Guinea
£7/5/- 12 months. £4/2/6
6 months.
The Bulletin
Australia's
leading journal
of fact
and
opinion
NAME
ADDRESS
Please tick \/ whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? or
A renewal subscription?
Post this coupon to THE BULLETIN, Box 4088, G.P.0., Syd-
ney; OR Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.), Ltd., P.O. Box 1595, Wel-
lington, C. 1., N.Z.; OR Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London; OR Australian Consolidated Press
Ltd., 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y.; OR Wool-
worths (Malaysia) Ltd., 10 Collyer Quay, Singapore.
New Zealand readers may receive the Air Freighted edition
at £2/12/- New Zealand for 26 issues, £4/4/- New Zealand
for 52 issues.
well informed people
The Bulletin
read
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 846
ACROSS
'
I—Not suitable for making thread in a noble conti-
nental roofing. (9)
ie I°°'J l° ve ? (5)
9—Unlikely to be rattled with a flat-top. (5-6) .
10— A football island group off North Australia. (3)
11 — Self-possession required to map Lombardy incom-
pletely. (6)
12— The learned fired the age and put it back. (8)
14—Barracking from the rustics when the bush-
whackers play the city-slickers? (2-7)
*-
16—Late back and all that. (2, 2)
18— Description of the unwilling
custom in town. (4)
19— The early future for them,
alternatively a squabble. (3, 6)
21— Figure you shingle. (8)
22 Sharpshooter to use scissors
on Her Majesty. (6)
25 Sesame is lit badly. (3)
26 Shrub showing rustic lovers
on ammunition. (8, 3)
27 Finish on one’s head. (3, 2)
28 — Dig around article features
which interpret the symp-
toms? (9)
DOWN
1 and 2—How’s Dr Faust play-
ing football with Nick?
(2, 6,4, 3,5)
3 Padraic charabanc carrying
the master of the Santa
Maria. (8)
4 One law for holly. (4)
5 They’ve given the cows away.
(2-8)
6 Tiny description of a stal-
lion among his progeny? (6)
7 Hooey weights upset a top-
line entertainer. (4, 5)
8— But a strict vegetarian
wouldn’t swallow such dis-
figurements. (11, 4)
13—Tent sandal in the territory.
(6, 4)
15—Necked with a scoundrel full
of dope. (9)
17—More barracking from the
rustics as in 14-across? (8)
20—Consumes the leftovers for
some of the La Perouse
supporters. (4, 2)
23 Who kept a journal not to
be confused with Coventry
Tom’s activity? (5)
24 Anberr is so Peruvian. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 845


r-
US
-Sfr'O 0.
mm
—x
mm
* «
m,
WHITEWALL TYRES OPTIONAL EXTRA
A beautiful leap ahead
in style and space
You might think a Station Sedan as beautiful as the all-new
Holden could easily get by on looks alone. But this one has
a whole lot more good things going for you. New curved styling
that makes it the roomiest of any wagon near the price. An
even longer load space. A new kind of driving excitement from
your choice of three engines up to 140-hp. And just wait till
you try Holden’s ride . . . it’s quieter, smoother, more luxurious
than ever. But why wait at all? See your Holden Dealer now
. . . for the car that’s a leap ahead in all that means most for
motoring pleasure.
STATION SEDAN
Prices from £960 plus tax
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S
Discover the difference drive the one that’s really new
8270


■A
jLMiil
MBl
V.‘:-P
It will outlast any other
Motor Oil in the world
Green-gold Shell Super Motor Oil is the world’s newest
- ajnd best motor oil. It’s a new kind of oil that does not
‘age’ in the engine. Shell Super is the safest oil you can
put in your car, because it has a longer effective working
life than any other motor oil. It simultaneously lubricates,
cools and cleans. This is a super-range multigrade oil,
. .
suitable foral I cars, in all extremes of climatic conditions:
from ‘blast furnace’ heatwaves to sub-zero blizzards.
Shell Super Motor Oil is an MS oil which exceeds the
requirements of today’s improved engines and extreme
driving conditions. Whatever your car’s oil change period
—l,OOO mi les, 6,000 mi les or longer—you can be sure that
Shell Super will remain in better condition and give
greater engine protection than any other
BagjMßßjH oil. For technical details of this amazing
oil. read the booklet ‘Motor Oi!—A New
Era’, free from any Shell service station.
HHHHNHfI Pick up your copy soon.
SHELL
&\Ut
