

The Bulletin
AUSTRALIAN
BALLET
Export Action
i ‘ ' .v. l


'
V
r
*
Geon vinyl resins are used by Olympic Cables
in manufacture of coaxial and telephone cables
to specifications of the P.M.G.
Sheathing based on Geon vinyl resin is used in the coaxiai communication cables already
laid from Bunbury to Perth, the same type cable that soon can make inter-city telecasts
possible. Here is resistance to weathering and heat, electrical and mechanical
protection in a single homogeneous covering. In manifold electrical installations, Geon
means no more humidity or ageing problems, no more corrosion, provides brightly-
coloured identification coding. In industry, Geon improves products or evolves new
ones. Have you a product we can help improve or develop?
B. F, Goodrich-C. SR. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
Kororoit Creek Road, Altona, Melbourne. Telephone 65-8221 or 2. Kalamazoo House, 182-186 Blues Point Road,
m
North Sydney, N.S.W. Telephone 92-6319. GEON Agencies in W.A., S.A. and Q'ld. Harrisons & Crosfield (A.N.Z.) LIMITED
M 5525


Ill®
: IftfiS
■MgSHh
m
ilPliilllli
s";
•>.. a.: ; -:--;. :: '-:-- .
•- ■■,'■■*
SP
M
ill
m
■
~r-
>3
€
i; j
mis
ggg|g|
Item 356. Part of a remarkable removals job.
One antique vase. Very precious.
One item on an inventory for an
entire household. A Sydney business-
man’s household we moved 2,350
miles across Australia to Perth. Door
to door in three days! How? Aire-
movals! A new removals service that
made history for us. It also made a
very happy businessman. All his
family’s belongings, every stick of
furniture and one antique, precious
vase arrived without a scratch. By
air, road, rail or sea, no moving job
is too small, too big or too complex
for Grace Bros, to take anywhere in
Australia, anywhere in the world with
skill and care. A Grace Bros, expert
is only a phone call away in 12 cities
and major towns
if you would like
an accurate quote,
ring him now!
GRACE BROS
REMOVALS
"Sydney 2-0946 □ Melbourne 48-7316 □ Brisbane 5-4631 □ Adelaide 51-1316
Perth 24-5137 □ Canberra 9-0234 □ Hobart 34-3988 □ Newcastle 2-4302
Townsville 6091 □ Lismore 2265 □ Murwillumbah 133 □ Queanbeyan 737
GR 48
The Bulletin
VOLUME 87
NUMBER 4441
Established 1880
APRIL 10
1965
Export Action
A Cultural Diplomacy 47
AROUND MELBOURNE 26
ARTS AND ENTERTAIN-
MENT 47
BUSINESS AND FINANCE 57
CROSSWORD 78
FORUM_. r. 43
LETTERS 41
MAN ON THE LAND 75
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 9
ON THE MARGIN 39
OVERSEAS 31
PLAIN ENGLISH 13
TANNER 12
THIS AUSTRALIA 14
GENERAL
Reversing the Roles 14
Russian Whaling 15
When the Phosphate Goes 16
The North: An Empty Feeling .... 21
Murder 24
Vietnam: Two Views 31
Homage to Godfrey Miller 40
REVIEWS
THEATRE: Hello, Dolly 51
OPERA: The Amorous Judge .... 51
BOOKS
The Poems of Shaw Neilson, by
A. R. Chisholm 53
The Great Abduction, by Judge
Gerald Sparrow 55
The Banker, by Leslie Waller .... 56
FINANCE
Another Plug for Bonds 57
The Record Makers 62
Speculator’s Diary 74
Editorial Office: 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


Money-saving uses for SCOTCH Brand tape . . . equipment design . . . special installation . . .
—g —— — ;
msaam
Sr I
..
: 7":
that’s how 3M Tape Customer Engineering Service cuts time and costs for you
You get more than tape from 3IVI
The men of 3M Tape Customer
Engineering Service do not sell tape.
They think tape on your behalf. They
are engineers and technical experts
trained to find more economical
methods of using scotch Brand tapes.
3M Tape Customer Engineers can also
quickly assess how scotch manual
or automatic dispensers can handle
your specific processes even more
economically.
If necessary, they modify stock units,
or even design special equipment for
your purpose.
3M Tape Customer Engineering
Service is available to you through
your 3M Salesman or Distributor-
Representative for . . .
Scotch TAPE
INDUSTRIAL TAPES DIVISION
MINNESOTA miNING AND.MANUFACTURING [AUSTRALIA} FTV LTD.
Sydney 43 0455, Melbourne 61 3841, Adelaide 51 5971,
Canberra 4 0791, Brisbane 54131, Perth 28 4651,
Hobart 3 3104, Auckland 295 109. smi/s/md
CQmPANY


.
:
.
.
m
■ . .-•
Hi
■
HH
■
Spans Australia
We are one of the biggest freight organisations in Australia, travelling an immense network of roads,
with pick-up and delivery at most points. Ansett Freight Express really spans Australia, nation wide.
We like to be exact about your goods. We take care of them as if they were our own.
Whatever your transport requirement road, rail, sea or air; local, interstate or overseas,
you can’t do better than depend upon Ansett Freight Express.
We are willing and our prices are right. Perhaps that’s why we are one of the largest in the business.
ANSETT FREIGHT EXPRESS SS
A MEMBER COMPANY OF ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
PERTH 24 4926
MELBOURNE 68 0541
SYDNEY 67 0533
ADELAIDE 45 5337
CANBERRA 9 0193
ALICE SPRINGS 777
BRISBANE 47 1481
DEVONPORT 2 2659
HOBART 8 4944
DARWIN 2957
NEWCASTLE 2 2155
LAUNCESTON 2 479 t


i
fifii
fr'-WA 1 - SS.
X.
%
O'
6400
miii
A magnetic stripe stores figures and words (all that
you’ll really need) on the back of the ledger card.
The 6400 itself has a memory store. These two
stores combine to give you automatic processing of
accounting tasks and timely management reports.
The gleaming IBM type-core brilliantly eliminates
the moving carriage and provides superior continuous
forms-handling.
HIM 6400
IBM AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
MAGNETIC LEDGER CARD ACCOUNTING MACHINE
Three hours ago, she was one of your office typists.
Now, after a morning’s tuition, she’s operating that
phenomenal new accounting machine—the IBM 6400!
With unprecedented speed and simplicity, the IBM
6400 enables her to deal with complex and routine
accounting tasks in a startling new way. Example:
in just one machine operation, the 6400 prepares
invoices, posts to the debtor’s ledger, and updates
stock records.
What makes the IBM 6400 so much more effective?
Its memory store, its alpha-numeric ledger card
stripe, its amazing type-core. There are less manual
operations—less risk of operator error.
And how much will decimal conversion cost you?
Nothing. In fact, you’ll actually save money!
ANY
TYPIST
CAN
OPERATE IT!
15M29.10r


A HAND FROM OLYMPIC
From the single strand wires on your door bell, to the multi-cored coaxial cable
that brings news and entertainment to your television screen, Olympic
manufacture wires, cables and flexibles for all household appliances in their
modern factories at Tottenham and Geebung. Olympic have achieved inter-
national recognition for their ability to produce a complete range of cables for
every purpose.
Specify Olympic Cables and live better electrically
Olg
mptc
CAB LE S


• ANOTHER REASON WHY INDUSTRY SHIPS YIA EMERY AIR FREIGHT
If
HH
HH
*
*
-r
*
*
*
*
*
"V
*
*
*
*
*
*
+
*
*
*
*
*
+
*
»
*
In the U.S.A.
(as well as over the oceans)
every airline route
is an Emery route.
There are 39 airlines in the U.S.A.
Emery Air Freight has reserved
space on every flight
of every airline
to speed your shipments.
Melbourne call
Sydney call
379-5449
67-0381
V.V
EMERY' AIR FREIGHT


National Notebook
The New Literates
Come of the huge problems facing
the Press in Asia came to us when
the retiring Asian director for the Inter-
national Press Institute, Mr 'Tarzie Vit-
tachi stopped over in Sydney, on his way
to Ceylon. He had just come from the
10th Asian Seminar for editors held in
Manila, on the theme of “Freedom and
Responsibility”. It was at this seminar
that American scholar and journalist
Louis Lyons had warned Asian countries
of the dangers in restricting a free Press.
Mr Vittachi explained, “Between Kara-
chi and Tokyo live 1000 million people
in what are supposedly democratic
countries. People are supposed to elect
their rulers. Yet only some 50 million
daily papers are sold. If you consider
that 40 million of these are sold in
Japan and then there are 10 million left
for the huge populations of India, Paki-
stan. Indonesia, and Burma. Is it any
wonder that democracy has its problems
in Asia?”
Is the low readership rate due to
illiteracy?
“No it isn’t. The literacy figure in
India is 125 million. Only 5 million
papers are sold. The problem is that
many papers just do not write for the
new literates, although this is changing.
“The responsibility of newspapers is
even greater because radio services are
controlled by the governments in most
of these countries.” Just how to carry
out this responsibility in difficult cir-
cumstances was one of the problems
discussed at the Manila seminar. South
Korean editors for instance have formed
their own full-time Press council of seven
journalists who report any breach of
ethics or misreporting to an Ethics Com-
mission. This self-imposed discipline
has helped to ward off too much
government interference, and may pro-
vide a model for other Asian countries
to follow.
Mr Vittachi has had personal experi-
ence of governments over - eager to
“guide” the Press. Formerly editor of
the “Ceylon Observer" he was in “self-
imposed exile” for the last four years
while the recently defeated Government
of Mrs Bandaranaike was in office.
After returning to Ceylon for a visit
he will take up a new job with the
Congress for Cultural Freedom in Lon-
don.
He offered one point of view on how
others see us. There were no Australian
editors at the Manila conference because,
says Mr Vittachi, until very recently his
Asian colleagues just did not think of
us as Asians when it came to sending out
invitations. This is changing he thinks
and Australia is “joining Asia”.
Laughing Gas
A cutting has been sent to us from
the “Peninsular Post”, a newspaper
which. circulates around Frankston,
Hastings, Sorrento and Portsea, in Vic-
toria. We quote:
Frankston. “Gassing can't be too
bad,” said Cr Eric Bell at the last meet-
ing of Frankston Council. “People who
have put their heads in gas ovens seem
to have a peaceful look on their faces.”
Cr Bell was defending the Council’s
method of gassing stray dogs against
further criticism by the Peninsular
Animal Aid Society which sought another
conference with the Council on this
subject
“If it was agonising or painful, they’d
pull their heads out of the oven, wouldn’t
they?” he reasoned.
Cr Oates, supporting Cr Bell, said that
he knew of two gas company employees
who were overcome by fumes and after
they were revived they said they didn’t
feel a thing; didn’t know they had been
gassed.
You can’t say that the Frankston
Council doesn’t keep up with the news.
They Come and Go
Tn these days of power and pressure,
sporting champions come and go so
fast that it’s sometimes hard to find out
what happens to them when their brief
burst of fame is over. We recently came
across Morris Curotta while on the
brief annual jaunt which precedes the
Royal Easter Show.
Curotta, who is now a representative
for the Shell Chemical Co. (Aust.) was
15 years ago the schoolboy wonder of
Australian athletics. He held the Aus-
tralian and NSW senior and junior 440
yards records.
In 1948, he was offered a scholarship
at Seton Hall, in New Jersey, the largest
Catholic University in America next to
Notre Dame, but declined it because of
his selection in the Australian Olympic
team for the London Games. At the
Games, though beaten in the semi-final
of the 100 metres and in the final of the
400 metres by Herb McKinley (Jamaica),
Arthur Wint (Jamaica) and Herb Whit-
field (USA), Curotta acquitted himself
well at the British athletics champion-
ships in breaking the 440 yards record.
For this effort he was awarded the
Harvey Memorial Trophy, the only Aus-
tralian ever to receive it up to that time.
Curotta left school at the end of 1948
after gaining the Leaving Certificate and


lllli
RANK \ERQX
813 COPIER
IlliiiM
:; •; . ■■:.
:•■ : i
This is the new Rank Xerox 813 copier- it fits on your desk
t
Now everyone can have xerocopies
From the success of the Rank
Xerox 914 Copier springs the re-
markably compact new 813, speci-
ally designed for smaller offices with
limited space and lower copying
volume.
The new 813 does everything the
914 does —except copy from books.
The 813 dry copies from all colours
—anything written, typed or print-
ed —on to ordinary bond paper. Per-
fect copies. Xerocopies!
Like the bigger 914, the Rank
Xerox 813 Copier will make the
same startling difference to the
sharing of information in your or-
ganisation.
To all users of Rank Xerox 914
Copiers. If your output of xero-
copies is exceeding the capacity of
your 914, you will find the compact
new 813 a useful auxiliary, to keep
work flowing smoothly.
Now everyone can have xerocopies.
Ask your secretary to clip this
coupon for details.
To Rank Xerox (Australia) Pty. Limited
Box 1609, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me full information on the new
Rank Xerox 813 Copier.
Name
BLOCK LETTERS PLEASE
Position
Company & Address
0
RANK
Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, Melbourne,
Perth, Adelaide, Canberra, Hobart. m92/64bl


spent several months “filling in time”
before Herb McKinley persuaded him to
accept the scholarship at Seton Hall.
This made Curotta (with the Australian
swimmer John Marshall who accepted a
scholarship at Yale at the same time)
the first Australian ever awarded an
athletic scholarship in America.
At Seton Hall the Sydney runner began
a course in biology. Curotta quickly won
selection in the university track and field
team and in 1953 won the Inter-collegiate
Amateur Athletics Association 440 yards
dash. That year he gained his Bachelor
of Science degree. Later the University
of Wisconsin offered him a research
scholarship in its department of ento-
mology. “I gave up athletics then; there
was no incentive, and besides the re-
search job was a full-time one,” he said.
Curotta got his Master of Science
degree in the field of entomology in 1955
and spent a further three years in the
research field before returning to Sydney.
Today, with his prowess on the track
virtually forgotten, Curotta is very much
the family man. “I want very much to
coach in athletics but there’s no time
for this any more,” he said. “Golf’s
about the only sport 1 play.”
Inside Story
TV/Trs Dorothy Bennett, a woman
A regarded as “wife” by most of the
old tribesmen in Arnhem Land, said:
“There is an inside and an outside story
to every Aboriginal painting. Now
after ten years among the people I
am at last getting the inside story.”
Founder in 1962 of the Australian
Aboriginal Art Trust, which last year
remitted £7OOO to Aboriginal artists,"
Dorothy Bennett is back in Sydney after
10 months to prepare an exhibition of
the work she has collected and to finish
a long-due book.
The way to acceptance among the
Aborigines hasn’t been easy. On this last
trip Mrs Bennett spent three weeks on
walkabout with a group of Aboriginal
women in the Escarpment country near
the East Alligator River. “Turtles and
goannas were our main stand-by,” she
said. "They would only cook the turtle
for ten minutes and serve it with the
legs and shell still on.
“They also eat mangrove worms,
which are white and up to 24 inches
long. They start at the tail and eat to
the head. 1 couldn’t come at it for a
while. They dipped one in a billabong
and gave it to me —finally I downed it —
but 1 left the head. The green and pink
ants are a great delicacy for them. But
I Was a bit dubious about eating them—
I don’t like the flavor. And the children
used to break black resin off the trees
and give it to me for chewing gum.”
Dorothy Bennett’s collection includes
sculptures specially bequeathed to her
by an old Tiwi ceremonial leader, Cardo
Kerinaiua: “At his mortuary rite on Mel-
ville Island, amid all the blood-curdling
wailing and flagellation, his widow
screamed at me that Kerinaiua had left
all his sculptures to me. I was to have
them as soon as his belongings had been
purified.”
Sitting down with the artist while he
works, Mrs Bennett gets the Aborigine
Jo talk and explain the story. She said
she often spent as long as 2} days getting
the “inside story” of one painting. “I
promised the people never to reveal the
sacred information behind some of the
paintings I have,” she said.
■N ationalism
Zealand’s international airline
TEAL died on April 1. Long live
Air New Zealand. The change, when
announced by the National Government
late last year, perplexed many New
Zealanders. It appeared to come from
the blue; there had been no public
agitation for a change. Then the Govern-
ment was obliged to remind people that
the change of name had been a plank
an obscure and forgotten one —in the
National Party’s election platform of
1963.
Yet the change has more than trivial
significance. The initials TEAL, after
all, stood for Tasman Empire Airways.
The removal of the imperial connotation
has clearly something to do with the fitful
nationalism shown in recent years by
the Holyoake Cabinet—such as the dis-
placing of the word “British” from the
top of New Zealand passports. And in
search of a cleaner, blunter image the
Government is apparently also looking
ahead to 1966. when the airline extends
its routes towards America and Asia with
Douglas DCB jets.
Meantime, Qantas steals a march on
April 10 by beginning the first pure-
jet service between Christchurch and
Sydney. Boeing 707 V-jets will fly the
route twice weekly.
Publishing First -I
'll[7'hen Melbourne University Press
"" publishes “Chinese Calligraphers
and their Art” in August, it will be some-
thing of a first, not only for Australian
publishing, but for Embassy Row in
Canberra. Its author, Dr Chen Chih-
mai, is the Ambassador of the Republic
of China as well as being an authority
on the history of Chinese art. The MUP
book, which is illustrated, may be the
first of four volumes—the other three
dealing with Chinese painters, sculptors
and potters. “I wrote the first one in my
spare moments. Whether I’ll find the time
to do the others remains to be seen,” says
Dr Chen.
A former Professor of History and
Government at the Peking National
Tsingghua University, Dr Chen has rep-
resented his Government at the United
Nations and has published books on gov-
ernment, history and art in Chinese. The
Bulletin interviews him as diplomat on
p. 32.
Cover Picture
HPhis week’s cover shows Mr Robert
Helpmann with two of the dancers
from the Japanese-inspired ballet he
created, “Yugen”. They are Kathleen
Geldard and Ann Fraser. On page 48
Patricia Rolfe writes about the ballet’s
forthcoming overseas tour.
LIES ABOUT AUSTRALIA
fcuLLetin
80 Years Ago: April. 11, 1885
M r Henniker Heaton tells the
English people that there are
450,000 men of military age in Vic-
toria. and that Australia could put in
the field from 20,000 to 25,000 troops
properly armed, officered, and disci-
plined. This thing is getting beyond
a joke. Some means should be adopted
for muzzling the dunces who go
abroad to lie about us. We cannot
suffer ourselves to be always misrepre-
sented—as was the case when we
offered England 500 trained infantry
for the Soudan and had not a man
under arms. To possess 450.000 men
of serviceable age, Victoria would re-
quire a population of from three to
four millions instead of one.
Tn broad Australia there are cer-
tainly not more than from five hun-
dred to a thousand men whom any
experienced officer would pass for
active service tomorrow, against a
disciplined enemy. There are pro-
bahly not four hundred. 20,000! It
is monstrous. Our Macauley or
Froude (we forget which) is not
handy, and so we cannot call to mind
the name of that Englishman who,
long resident in Spain, told Elizabeth,
when asked what he thought of her
troops, that thev were in every way
admirable, but that—it was as well
the Spaniards did not effect a land-
ing. If ever a great humiliation should
fall on Australia, we may be sure that
the Henniker Heatons of society are
at the bottom of it.


Tamner
"How can he call us narrow-minded bigots? We hate nigras, Catholics AND Jews."


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Other Martin Report
npHE Martin Committee reported to the
A Federal Government on the future
of Tertiary Education it did not
only report about the Federal Govern-
ment and Tertiary Education.
It would be a pity, therefore, if pub-
lic discussion on the report is re-
stricted, as much of it has been, only
to either commending the Government
for accepting many of the recommen-
dations on setting up a system of ter-
tiary colleges and spending extra
money: or fo criticising it for rejecting
proposals like the recommended as-
sistance for teacher-training and fail-
ing to spend extra money. In doing this
some of the most radical critics of the
failings of education in Australia are
being less radical and inventive than
the Martin Committee itself. For the
report is not merely a guide to how
much the Government should spend,
or what the Government should do
about raising Australia from its rela-
tively low and depressed position on
the international ladder of per capita
expenditure on education. Much of it
questions general communal attitudes
about educational priorities, such as
the university degree fixation and its
associated status snobbery, and also
the rarely-examined but long-accepted
principles of professional, educational
and business groups. Volume 2 of the
Report, for instance, is particularly
important for its assessment of train-
ing and standards in key professions
such as Agricultural Science, Law,
Medicine, Management and the De-
fence Services.
It vigorously recommends the rais-
ing of educational levels at agricultural
colleges, so that “greater stress can be
laid on technological developments
and the basic sciences”; it advises rais-
ing the status of business and manage-
ment studies and rejects the idea still
prevalent in many Australian univer-
sities “that the academic propriety of
courses increases in inverse ratio to
their utility”; it draws attention to the
conflict which has developed between
university requirements and the ne-
cessities of apprenticeship for the law
profession but rejects the demands
from sections of that profession by
declaring “that the need for basic
education and organised intellectual
training must not be subordinated to
the immediate practical and detailed
requirements . . It examines changes
in medical practice and recommends
that the medical course should be
shortened and graduate training made
mandatory before registration. It
recognises the dependence of the
defence services on the universities for
highly skilled manpower and calls for
the raising of educational standards
for admission to the Naval College; it
maintains that there is a need for a
much wider spread of linguistic ability
among the Forces, particularly in
South-East Asian languages.
Some of these recommendations
depend on Government acceptance and
some on the provision of extra finance.
But most require a rethinking by the
universities, by professional bodies, by
educational authorities, by private busi-
nessmen and public administrators.
The Martin Committee will have
wasted some of its three years of work
if its recommendations on financing
tertiary colleges and universities are
accepted, with whatever limitations,
and its recommendations for reforming
key professions, revising community
attitudes, and re-defining educational
needs, are allowed to gather dust on
the shelves of the Commonwealth
Printer’s Office because of inadequate
public understanding that the Govern-
ment is only one, albeit the most im-
portant one, of the groups for whom
the whole report is intended.
Giving It a Go
Tt would be safe to say that if Captain
Cook had had an economist aboard
none of us would be here today. To
the non-economist, the chief function
of this science appears to be to make
the difficult appear impossible.
Agricultural economist, Dr B. R.
Davidson, has for long loudly proclaim-
ed the unwisdom of intensive agricul-
ture in Australia’s North. Dr Davidson
is an international expert on land use
and there is great value in the attention
he directs in his newly published book,
“The Northern Myth,” to economic
criteria to be taken into account in
planning northern development.
However, in the North, as J. C.
Horsfall points out on page 21, eco-
nomics are not the whole story. It is
hard in 1965 to produce such archaic
Australianisms as “the pioneer spirit”
and “giving it a go” as arguments
without raising smiles all round, but
they do come into it.
From the point of view of both its
friends and enemies, the intensive
development undertaken at the Ord is
an experiment. Dr Davidson regards
it as an outrageously conceived ex-
periment, but it is still an experiment
from which Australia has a chance —
not a certainty, of course, just a chance
— of making a major breakthrough in
tropical agriculture. Australia has a
poor reputation for undertaking ori-
ginal research and for leaning com-
placently on the scientific gains of
others. Agricultural science is one field
in which we have had previous suc-
cesses, in which we have many of the
people and facilities we need, and in
-which we have a good deal to gain.
If both sides accept the Ord as art
experiment, then the £20-million of the
taxpayers’ money being spent there
is a small amount compared with what
is being spent in scientific research by
many other countries for objects far
less immediate.
Export Drive
Oritish writer Elspeth fluxley, at
present in Australia, has once
more pointed out the foolishness of
asking every visitor their impressions
of this country. Why do we care so
much, she asks. What she might have
added is that if we care so much, why
don’t we do something to enlarge the
world’s view of Australia.
We may be beginning to do some-
thing effective about it with the export
of the Australian Ballet Company and
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra this
year.
However, when Australia begins to
export culture she will find a repeti-
tion of what has happened so often
with her export drive. We are only try-
ing to “sell” something abroad which
we have borrowed from other countries
and which they can still manufacture
better than we can.
Still, it is something to have reached
what we hope is world standard in
ballet and orchestral playing. And a
country as practical as Australia should
by now realise that the more other
countries know of us the more willing
they will be to buy our goods or listen
to our voice on world affairs.


THIS AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENT
Reversing the Roles
Breaking the two-House nexus
J. MCEWEN
F. M. DALY
CANBERRA —The Labor Party last
week enjoyed itself because for once it
had no monopoly over internal dissension.
The partners in the Menzies Government,
the Liberals and the Country Party, de-
monstrated towards each other an animos-
ity more outspoken and public than for a
long time. Source of the animosity was
electoral redistribution, always capable
of producing friction between the Liber-
als and the Country Party. Whenever
redistribution comes up for examination,
the Liberals yearn for an electoral set-up
that will enable them to govern Aus-
tralia in their own right and in con-
formity with policies that they want, and
without Country Party support. As,
simultaneously, the Country Party is
working for the type of electoral redis-
tribution settlement that will maintain
them as a tail, sufficiently powerful and
large to wag the body of the non-Labor
political dog, there are forces pulling in
opposite directions in the Liberal-CP
coalition until the shape of the redis-
tribution is finally decided.
The Prime Minister, Sir Robert Men-
zies, and Country Party Leader John
McEwen will probably prevent the op-
posed forces pulling asunder the non-
Labor Government which has now been
in power Federally since 1949. Both
men saw a non-Labor administration
fall apart under the strain of Liberal-
Country Party hostility in 1941, and
both spent years in the Opposition
benches as a result. At their present
ages, neither would want a repetition of
this happening. They have learned sense
from their own history and are both
prepared to compromise a little to get a
lot. But there is real feeling under-
neath them, and it showed itself in last
week's debate.
Menzies was his conciliatory best
when he explored the proposition that
the House of Representatives should be
enlarged without enlarging the Senate,
This is something that the Liberal
machine wants, but it can only be done
By ALAN REID
by referendum, as the constitutional
nexus, which limits the House of Repre-
sentatives to being as nearly as practical
tw'ice the number of the Senate, has to
be broken.
While the Liberals want this, the
Country Party is by no means sure that
it does, particularly if the House of Re-
presentatives is enlarged to the extent
that it improves the likelihood of the
Liberals being able to govern in its own
r >ght. Menzies smoothed down CP
feathers by saying that nobody wanted
the House of Representatives increased
by another 48 members, which would
be the number by which it would have
to be increased if the Senate were in-
creased by 24.
Yet, unless the nexus between the two
Houses were broken, this would have to
be the Senate increase so as to have odd
numbers going to the electors at each
Senate election in order to prevent a
permanently deadlocked Senate. Forty
eight extra members of the House of
Representatives would give the Liberals
a fighting chance of one day being in a
position that they could govern on their
own. Menzies made no reference to the
proposition to which he is already com-
mitted —the loading of country elector-
ates by up to 20 per cent against city
electorates to maintain rural representa-
tion in the House of Representatives.
But some of his followers, and particu-
larly Liberal Mr Henry Turner, had no
inhibitions about offending Country
Party feelings on this issue.
Said Turner: “Obviously the tolerance
of 20 per cent, or one-fifth more or less
than the quota (in favor of country
electorates), leaves plenty of scope for
what I might call jiggery-pokery. A
little bit of intimidation and a little bit
of propaganda directed at the distribu-
tion commissioners might make them pay
a great deal of attention to size, remote-
ness, difficulties of transportation and
so on and some of our friends (of the
Country Party) are not unskilled in the
arts of propaganda, intimidation and so
forth. ... I think there is much to be
lost by having dirty hands in this mat-
ter.”
Apparently the hostility between cer-
tain Liberals and the Country Party
came to a head when the Parliament
rose for the luncheon adjournment. On
what Turner later told the House of Re-
presentatives, the Interior Minister, who
is responsible for the supervision "df
electoral redistribution, and who is cur-
rently young Country Party Minister
Doug Anthony, expressed his resentment
to Turner at what he interpreted as a
slur on his integrity. “I wish to make
it clear that I had no intention of cast-
ing a slur on Mr Anthony,” Turner told
the House. “When I spoke about a
gerrymander I meant simply the pro-
posed introduction of certain amend-
ments to the Commonwealth Electoral
Act (those promised by Menzies to the
Country Party) which would have the
H. B. TURNER


effect of overweighing the interests of
one section of the community.”
Then came a line of dialogue which
revealed the intensity of feeling being
unleashed by the electoral redistribu-
tion issue;
Mr McEwen: “What did you mean
when you spoke of intimidation by
Ministers.”
Mr Turner; “I did not.”
Mr McEwen: “Yes, you did.”
This type of clash repeated through-
out the debate—Turner obviously trying
to encourage his Liberal colleagues in
the Senate where Government defections
could wreck the type of redistribution
Menzies has promised the Country
Party—suggested that feelings could get
very strained before the issue is finally
resolved. Labor found itself in the un-
usual role of being able to sit back
while Government, instead of Labor,
factions slugged it out.
Mr Daly (Labor, NSW) enjoyed him-
self when Mr Peter Nixon (CP, Victoria)
was speaking. Nixon advocated appoint-
ment of a judge as redistribution com-
missioner and all evidence being taken
in public. Deploring the redistribution
which the Parliament rejected prior to
the last elections, Nixon said that the
Western Australian section of this re-
distribution could have wiped out the
Country Party in Western Australia.
“There was something wrong with this.
redistribution and as a member of this
Parliament I will be hard to convince
that there was not something wrong. Let
us get rid of this hole-and-corner method.
Let us begin by having public scrutiny
of all evidence given to . the Commis-
sioners,” he said.
Tongue -in - cheek, Daly protested
against these statements which he said
in effect claimed “that the previous Min-
ister for the Interior (Mr Gordon Freeth,
a Liberal) was a party to a crooked
gerrymander in WA”. Daly also re-
called with mock regret the open differ-
ences between McEwen and Freeth at
the last elections. Labor could hardly
be blamed for getting enjoyment out of
the Government’s difficulties. For Labor,
it was V welcome reversal of roles.
WHALING
“The World’s Best”
Response from Soviets?
PERTH Since the International
Whaling Commission in Oslo last year
rejected proposals by Australia and New
Zealand, that sea-going whalers should
not operate within 500 miles of a shore-
based organisation, the Soviet Union"
might not readily respond to complaints
over Russian whalers’ activities off the
Australian coast. In Perth last week,
the West Australian Minister for Fisher-
ies, Mr R. Hutchinson, asked the Federal
Minister for Primary Industry, Mr C. F.
Adermann, to take action over Russian
whaling activity off the coast near Al-
bany, 250 miles south of Perth.
Mr Hutchinson pointed out that the
operations of the Russian fleet could
seriously affect the economy of the
Albany area and lead to bitter feelings
against the Russians. He asked the
Federal Government to approach the
Russian Embassy through the External
Affairs Department.
In the House of Representatives the
External Affairs Minister, Mr P. Has-
luck. announced that his Department
would make certain approaches, but he
felt that the result of the International
Whaling Commission would have con-
siderable bearing. Mr Hasluck admitted
the Russians were fully within their legal
rights to hunt whales off the Australian
coast.
. The commander of the Soviet whaling
fleet, Commodore Alexei Solyanik, told
Pressmen in Melbourne that the whale
chasers operating off the West Australian
coast had every right to be there. “If
they are catching more whales than
Australians are, it is because the Rus-
sians are the world's most efficient
whalers,” he said. Before his ship, Slava
Sevastopolya, left to rejoin the fleet after
buying provisions in Melbourne, Com-
modore Solyanik described criticism of
the Russian whalers that worked off the
coast near Albany as untrue and unjust.
“I was the official Soviet delegate at the
International Whaling Commission last
year when Australia and New Zealand
proposed that other countries’ whaling
factory ships should not come within
500 miles of an Australian shore station.
But 15 countries voted against this. So
it is entirely legal for other fleets to
hunt whales outside a territorial zone of
only three miles.
The managing director of the C'heynes
Beach Whaling Co., Mr S. M. Reilly,
C. F. ADERMANN
said in Perth that his company had no
intention of closing down. The situation,
however, would be considered after the
Russians had finally left the area. At
this stage he could give no indication
as to what damage the Russians might
have inflicted on the local whaling indus-
try.
Meanwhile, the effect of the Russian
whaling operations has been sorely felt
in New Zealand where the last shore
whaling station at Tory Channel, on the
northern tip of the South Island, closed
down because of a glut of sperm oil on
world markets. Mr Gilbert Perano, one
of the principals of the Tory Channel
Co., attributed the closedown of the
factory to the “indiscriminate slaughter”
of whales in the Antarctic where Russian
and Japanese interests have been most
active. There, whaling fleets had prac-
tically exterminated the blue whale and
the humpback whale. Mr Perano con-
sidered this fact was supported by the
sharp decline in catches at Tory Channel
where humpback whales taken had fallen
from 226 in 1960, to nine in 1963 and
none at all this season.
He believes all whaling operations in
the Antarctic will cease in about two
years. “Norway is just about out of
the game and other countries will soon
follow,” he predicted.
RUSSIAN WHALING SHIPS OFF THE AUSTRALIAN COAST.


NAURU
When the Phosphate Goes
Resettlement and the royalties
NAURU, THE 12-SQUARE-MILE HEADACHE.
SYDNEY Whether the problem of
resettling 2700 Nauruans, when the
island’s phosphate is worked out in 25
years, can be resolved in Canberra this
week at a conference between Govern-
ment representatives of Australia, Britain
and New Zealand, remains very much
in doubt. In the past four years bolh
the Australian Government (which ad-
ministers the Trust Territory on behalf
of NZ and the UK, its partners in the
British Phosphate Commission) and the
islanders have vetoed various alternatives.
Only last week the Minister for Terri-
tories, Mr C. E. Barnes, announced that
the Government had accepted the
Nauruans’ rejection of Curtis Island, off
the Queensland coast, as their new home.
Mr Barnes told the House of Rep-
resentatives that the Government, after
careful consideration, felt the resettle-
ment proposals should be dropped, and
to end uncertainty about their future the
residents of Curtis Island and the Queens-
land Government had been notified.
The Government, said Mr Barnes, had
no other specific proposals to make to
the Nauruans, but in viev' of the inevit-
able growth in the present population,
the size of Nauru and the limitations of
its natural resources other than phos-
phate, the Nauruans’ own interest will
require resettlement.
On April 12 a four-man committee
(M. Andre Naudy, France, Mr Nathaneil
Eastman, Liberia, Mr Dwight Dickinson,
United States, and Mr Dermot Swan,
Britain), which was appointed by the UN
Trusteeship Council, will visit Nauru to
test the attitude of the islanders toward
resettlement.
Two years ago Curtis Island looked
the logical solution to the resettlement
question, although the head chief,
Hammer de Roburt, told the United
Nations’ Trusteeship Council, in New
York, that he was particularly dis-
appointed that Australia would not grant
his people full independence if they re-
settled on the island. He said, at that
stage, that the islanders’ Resettlement
Council considered Curtis Island, or the
nearby Frazer Island, as “acceptable re-
settlement sites”. Even Nauru’s admini-
strator, Mr R. S. Leydin, said in New
York he thought the Nauruans would
select Curtis Island.
But the stumbling block was that the
islanders wanted independence which the
Australian Government, naturally so,
was not prepared to give, though it was
agreeable to giving the islanders authority
to conduct their own community affairs
and make their own laws. (At the UN
Trusteeship Council a Soviet move for
Nauruan independence was rejected ny
a large majority. The Soviet delega.e,
Mr Brykin, said there was no reason
for rejecting the Nauruans’ “perfectly
legitimate request for sovereignty and
self-government.”)
The Australian Government’s view at
the time was that of the various proposals
for resettlement, transfer to Curtis Island
seemed the best.
It seemed to meet the understandable
desire of the Nauruans to preserve their
community a desire which had led
them to oppose settlement on the Aus-
tralian mainland. The only real obstacle
was the Nauruan demand, supported by
Russia, for political independence.
The Australian Director of Nauruan
Resettlement, Mr R. Marsh, told the
same UN Trusteeship Council meeting
that it was hoped the islanders would
accept resettlement with substantial
autonomy under the Queensland Local
Government Act at citizens, on Curtis
Island. He emphasised the desire of
Australia, as trustee with Britain and
New Zealand, that a permanent future
should be built for the islanders on some-
thing capable of growth. This had not-
been realised, he said, because the
Nauruans wanted to retain their identity
as Nauruans and did not want to become
subservient to Australian taxation, Cus-
toms and Immigration laws. Instead, the
islanders wanted to take over the phos-
phate deposits themselves and have the
rest of the island rehabilitated with new
soil brought in by ships that take the
phosphate. To this stage no concrete
decision had been made.
Then in August the following year the
Nauruans told Mr Barnes they definitely
did not want Curtis Island, and instead
informed the Government that they pre-
ferred to remain on Nauru and that they
wanted a legislative council as a
transitional step before independence in
1967. These requests were unsuccess-
fully put to the Government after nearly
a month of discussion with three
Nauruans Chief Hammer de Roburt,
Mr Raymond Gadabu and Mr James
Ategan Bop.
Another Nauruan problem facing the
Canberra conference is the level of phos-
phate royalties. In August last year the
Nauruans were offered an increase of
50 per cent from 2s. Bd. to 4s. a ton
in the cash payments. This was in
addition to meeting the costs of admini-
stration on the island of about 11s. per
ton. An offer was also made, related
to a proposed increase in output of phos-
phate, for an increase from Is. to 3s.
per ton in payments to the Long Term
Investment Fund (created several years
ago to provide a fund for the benefit of
the islanders after the phosphates were
exhausted).
At current rates of interest, and on
the proposed rate of output of phosphate,
the fund would build up to approximately
£2O million. The Nauruan delegation
had proposed an increase in royalties
to 14s. Bd. per ton. but this was not
accepted by the Australian Government.
Whatever the outcome of the three-dav
conference, the questions of royalties and.
resettlement will again be discussed with
Nauruan representatives later this year.
GORDON CHESTERMAN
PEACE
£1 a Head
“In the red ”
SYDNEY The supporters of the
Peace Conference held last October have
formed themselves into a continuing
organisation which will probably displace
the existing peace groups. This is in the
tradition of peace activity in Australia
where groups follow a set pattern of life:
an organisation outgrows its initial ability
to attract do-gooders and the gullible, or
falls into disrepute, and is replaced by a
new group which is formed from the
remnants of the old. This in turn attracts
a few new faces by virtue of some con-
ference or widely ballyhooed activity.
Apart from providing a new public
image, the newly formed Association for


VACANCY
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
COMMONWEALTH LOANS AND NATIONAL SAVINGS ORGANISATION
CANBERRA
Applications are invited for appointment to the following position in the
Department of the Treasury:—
DIRECTOR
Actual Salary—£4,36s
Duties: (Position No. 19).
Organisation and control of work connected with the raising of Com-
monwealth Loans and the activities of the National Savings Scheme.
Liaison with financial institutions and preparation of reports on matters
associated with Commonwealth Loans and the Bond market.
Qualifications:
Experience in the financial field, combined with organisational ability
and a capacity for creative writing.
Applications:
Giving details of age, experience, qualifications and other material
information close on 15.4.65, and should be addressed to:
The Secretary to the Treasury,
Department of the Treasury,
CANBERRA, A.C.T.
International Co-operation and Disarma-
ment has another compelling reason for
existence —the 1964 conference still has
debts to pay off. While a deficit, estimated
last November in excess of £6OOO, has
been reduced, the conference is still in
the red. Thus one of the aims of the
new body is to provide “assistance in
finalising the affairs of the 1964 Con-
gress.”
This new group departs from previous
practice. In the past there have been
ghostly committees, set up by individuals,
which were self-perpetuating, and relied
for financial and other support on the
faithful and soft - hearted, but were
answerable to no one. It has now been
decided to enlist members at £1 a head
in a formal body with a constitution and
an elected committee.
Instead of calling a public meeting, or
even advising the 1500 conference at-
tendee, notices were sent to a selected
group of supporters. These attended the
inaugural meeting in Sydney last month.
How many invitations were sent is not
known, but some 50 people turned up,
were required to produce their notices of
invitation at the door, and had their
names checked off a list before being
admitted. The meeting, which included
maybe 10 dissidents for form's sake, de-
clared itself the membership and adopted
a very caut ous constitution the mem-
bers will meet once a year and the com-
mittee will rule. One article was rejected
as offensive to even the hardened cadres
a clause giving the committee the right
to change the constitution itself was con-
sidered to be going too far.
The public nature of the new organisa-
tion evidently makes surety of control
more urgent than is usually necessary, for,
along with the usual gaggle of reliable
“peaceniks” who have been in the busi-
ness for many years, two fully fledged
members of the Communist Party’s Cen-
tral Committee, Mr W. Gollan and Mr
W. Parkinson, were elected. Since the
aim of the new group is national, in-
cluding an office in Canberra, it is highly
likely that the process will be repeated in
other States.
VICTORIA
Carry on, Nurse
Marginal increases sought
MELBOURNE Militant industrial
action may not be as remote as hospital
administrators comfortably believe if
Victorian nurses have their next claim
for pay increases rejected. "In fact,
warned the secretary of the Australian
Nursing Federation employees’ section,
Mr Alan Houston, “there could be
something of a riot.” Even though the
State Wages Board has rejected an initial
claim by the Royal Victorian College of
Nurses, a meeting of nurses last week
decided to press with a further claim
within the next four weeks. (The claim
would not be for a flat pay increase, but
for marginal increases in the various
nursing categories.)
According to Mr Houston, the key
point of the new case will be the respon-
sibility of the trained nurse’s work. A
claim for a flat pay increase of £4 7s. 6d.
a week for all trained nurses was refused
by the Wages Board on March 2. The
employer organisations opposed the
claim on the grounds that such a revi-
sion of the salary structure would result
in an immediate increase of £1 million
in the wages bill.
At present a staff nurse who has com-
pleted three years’ training is paid
£l6 16s. 6d. weekly and after a further
year she is appointed a sister and her
pay increased to £l7 10s. 6d. Four
years later, if she is appointed a charge
sister she receives £l9 9s. 6d. There are
a few higher paid positions available,
such as a supervisor sister who is paid
£2l 2s. 6d., and assistant matron at
£24 Bs. 6d. The award for matrons
varies according to the size of the hospi-
tal from £24 Bs. 6d. to £3B 14s. 6d. paid
to a matron of a hospital with more than
500 beds.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Apprentices
Not only the prices
ADELAIDE The South Australian
Housing Trust last week called tenders
for the construction of more houses at
Elizabeth and Salisbury: that was a usual
enough happening, but there is nothing
usual about the terms under which the
new contracts will be allotted. Premier
Frank Walsh has virtually warned
builders not employing apprentices that
they will be wasting their time tendering.
In a move to overcome what the SA
Apprentices Board has described as a
serious shortage of apprentices in the
building industry, Walsh has revealed
that the Housing Trust, in allotting
contracts, will take into account not
only the prices submitted, but also
whether the builder will undertake to
train apprentices. Walsh, who blames
the sub-contracting system for the
present situation, says little is being done
for the training of apprentices in the
building industry.
With the Housing Trust building about
a third of the houses erected in SA, the
move must have some success. The SA
Master Builders’ Association, while wel-
coming the move, has warned that further
action will be necessary. The Associa-


Automatic
Automatic pilot takes the work out of course-
keeping. You set the course: George keeps to it,
regardless. Gives peace of mind. Frees the skipper
for other duties. Like when a convention is to be
arranged. The team of experts at Chevron Hotel,
backed by the colossal resources of this great
hotel, pilot the planners through all the shoals.
Experience tells. If you are to convene a conven-
tion, write to or talk it over with the Chevron Hotel
management: No further worries.
Package deals tailored to your requirements cover
every little detail. And at a very fair price.
Get with it . . . with us.
Ask for booklets:
PLANNING MADE EASY
ENTERTAINING MADE
AND
EASY
AUSTRALIA'S GREAT CONVENTION CENTRE
CHEVRON HOTEL
35-0433
MACLEAY STREET, POTT'S POINT, SYDNEY
tion hopes that eventually some “broad
system of aid or control” will be initiated.
The new Government has also run
into criticism over its decision to abolish
the sale of Crown lands to the public.
(The Playford Government has released
many Crown lands to private ownership
by cancelling perpetual leases.) The new
Agriculture Minister, Mr Bywaters, an-
nouncing the change in policy, said the
Labor Government was against the
aggregation of Crown lands. He said the
move would help young people, who at
present found the cost of buying a prop-
erty impossibly high, to settle on the land.
Far from doing this, the new policy
could cause the Labor Party considerable
trouble. The new policy will prevent
many farmers in South Australia from
owning their own land, and in cases
some farmers will find it difficult to
borrow for development. Previously,
banks and lending institutions have
been reluctant to make advances on lease-
hold land. It is being freely predicted
that future advances on leasehold land
will be for short terms, causing a devalua-
tion of leasehold land. Agricultural
authorities have also predicted that the
new policy will restrict outside develop-
ment in SA.
EDUCATION
The Petch
Report
Just a chummy gesture
PERTH The West Australian Uni-
versity’s handling of the Petch report has
been a case of bungled public relations,
and at worst a manoeuvre to stifle public
debate. The university early last year
brought out Dr Petch, secretary of the
second-biggest examinations system in
Britain, to look into the State’s exam
workings. The report was handed to the
university-run Public Examinations Board
in November, and a fortnight ago re-
porters were handed copies of it and
asked to face Professor Colin Sanders,
education professor and board chairman,
at a Press conference.
They turned up in full array to be
told that the handing out of the report
was just a chummy gesture, and that
nothing of what Dr Petch recommended
was even to be discussed at the con-
ference. Instead they had a little lecture
on the board’s history, and statistical
evidence that there are more public
examination candidates than there used
to be.
Professor Sanders, however, was good
enough to hint that there are now good
reasons for modifying the junior, the
third-year secondary examinations which
will become the terminal test for an
increasing number of students as the


V
one bite of the cherry
.. . one order ...
for Brambles Industrial Services
have the most comprehensive range of
equipment, the widest experience
and expert staff to enable them to give
complete service from one source.
• excavation • crane hire
• concrete pouring • earth moving
• site development • steel erection
• wellpoint watering • plant hire
Take one bite at the cherry—
place all your basic site development
in the hands of
BRAMBLES
INDUSTRIAL SERVICES
CORNER OF DOWLING STREET & TODMAN AVENUE,
WATERLOO, N.S.W. TELEPHONE 663 0465!
BIS.B
statutory 15-year school-leaving age
comes into effect.
It has become fashionable in the
West's academic cloisters to bait the
Press, and the most conscientious re-
porters are treated as vulgar interlopers.
But apart from this, the university is
buying a fight with the teachers through
the ban on open discussions. Professor
Sanders says that “it is better for the
public to learn about the Petch report in
due course when university policy has
been decided on”. If this means present
a legislated fait accompli, then the
teachers have given notice that they plan
to pursue their long-held claim that, when
it comes to public exams, the university is
having too much to say from too lofty
a perch.
AVIATION
Drags or Golf?
A swing and roundabout affair
MELBOURNE The Federal Gov-
ernment’s announcement of its plans to
give Victoria an international airport
struck locals as being pretty much a
swing and roundabout affair. In 1962
the Prime Minister, Sir Robert Menzies,
promised that Melbourne would have a
£lO million jetport by 1967. Senator
Henty now says that the statistics have
altered to £l6 million by 1969.
The former Melbourne Lord Mayor,
Sir Maurice Nathan, was unhappy with
what he saw of the swing and attacked
the Federal planners for delaying the
jetport for another two years. He thought
the Commonwealth had underrated a
State which “has such an outstanding
record of industrial progress and general
development plus a large degree of self-
help”. Sir Maurice, who is chairman of
the Victorian Promotion Committee,
alleged that there was no evidence that
the Tullamarine airport would be fully
operative even by 1969.
The Premier, Mr Bolte, was obviously
pleased by what was on the roundabout.
With an eye on the extra £6 million he
admitted to being pleased to hear from
Senator Henty that adequate facilities
would be built at Tullamarine. He urged
that the programme be speeded up as
much as possible so that Melbourne
would be on an equal footing with
Sydney.
It is doubtful if the airport construc-
tion can be speeded up for the reason
that TAA and Ansett will have to outlay
£5 million each which will bring the total
cost to more than £26 million. The one
unanswered question at the moment is
what will happen to Essendon Airport
when Tullamarine begins operations? The
most likely answers —an airfreight ter-
minal, a drag racing track or a night golf
practice range.


:-r :
mimm*
4
Hanimex
Lumoprint
—the efficient way
to reduce
office
overheads
mam
LumofKint
m
tttrnrnmummimKi'mimmm mt n nil.
m
Whether your office is large or
small, if you want to speed replies,
send or retain facsimiles, keep files
complete, circulate data without
delay, reduce typing overheads,
share information, etc., you have
named your reasons for new Lumo-
print copying.
Only Lumoprint allows you to
decentralise your present copying
facilities and eliminate copy-breaks,
bottle-neck delays, costly walking
time.
Lumoprint:
is simplicity itself to operate
can copy anything quickly and
clearly
sealed unit means no mixing or
handling of any chemicals
•fa offers nationwide after-sales
service
Whether it’s typewriter or ball-
point, pen or pencil, drawing or
photo, colour or black, opaque or
transparent, one sided or two,
Lumoprint can copy it . . .
Fast. Operation is foolproof. ON/
OFF is automatic.
So is lightness/darkness control.
And no messy developer. Neat,
simple cartridge instead. And you
get Free Service for Life on
Hanimex Lumoprint.
Cost is low. Lumoprint is avail-
able in two sizes:
Model L 250, up to foolscap size,
£79 0 0
Model L4OO, up to brief size,
£lO5 0 0
Ring or write today for a com-
pletely free, no obligation demon-
stration.
Lumoprint
Selected, tested, approved by
HANIMEX
SYDNEY: Old Pittvvater Road, Brookvale. 93 0321. MELBOURNE: 16
Bond Street. 627411. BRISBANE: 91 Edward Street. 2 4398. ADELAIDE:
16A Wyatt Street. 23 5427. PERTH: 331 Murray Street. 21 7415.
HOBART: 6 Dapple Street. 43-179.
Fill in the coupon and post this advertisement
to your nearest Hanimex Lumoprint Division
office.
NAME
ADDRESS.
HAE49I


The North: An Empty Feeling
Strict economics versus “having a go”
By J. C. HORSFALL
Looking at North Australia on the
map one gets the same empty feel-
ing as when visiting there. This
has moved many people to urge the
spending of countless millions to develop
the area, in default of which, the argu-
ment runs, we will lose it to Asiatic in-
vaders, who could make something of it
if the white man can’t.
As to the area’s potential for economic
development, a good many people nurture
ideas that this is tremendous without
specifying the precise way the untold
riches should be unlocked. They have
a high suspicion that successive Austra-
lian Governments have been neglecting
both their national and international
economic obligation in failing to give
more attention to the area’s development,
that even the present Government is only
paying lip service to the real require-
ments and that the ALP’s interest in it at
elections is merely snatching at a vote-
catching straw.
While probably not articulate about
the economic possibilities, another school
of thought believes that in terms of
defence it would be silly to develop what
they see as a naturally built-in piece of
scorched earth, whose barrenness itself is
an ideal bastion against invasion and
whose communications with the rich
south of the continent are so bad as to
hinder an enemy’s getting there, by land
anvw'ay.
In harmony with this view, though
content to leave defence angles to pro-
fessional strategists, is a considerable
body of economic opinion against pour-
ing capital into the North except for
extensive type farming, more or less con-
fined to grazing on more scientific lines
than at present, giving up any illusions
about establishing thick white settlement
either in the country or in towns.
As an extension of this proposition, it
is argued that as land is virtually limitless
in the north such capital and labor to be
allocated to its development should be
directed towards activities which mini-
mise the proportion of capital and labor
to land use. This again points to
grazing and other extensive pastoral
activities.
However, it has been assumed by
some agricultural scientists that there
are also distinct possibilities for going
beyond grazing into the development of
land for intensive agriculture in North-
ern Australia. Following this line CSIRO
teams have been busy for years trying
to assess the possibilities for intensive
agriculture. On the basis of their find-
ings, attempts are now being made to
establish intensive agriculture, and in the
case of the Ord River project £2O million
of Government money is currently being
spent in the cause. _
Foremost among critics of the expen-
diture, and indeed of the whole effort to
establish intensive agriculture in the
North, has been Mr B. R. Davidson,
Research Fellow in Agricultural Econo-
mics at the University of Western Aus-
tralia. His clashes on the subject with
Mr C. W. M. Court, the WA Minister
for the North-West, who has pushed the
Ord development for all he is worth,
have been enlivening the usually placid
Perth scene for years. Though his views
have not deterred Court from his course
in the North-West they have commanded
respect because Davidson is an interna-
tional expert on land use.
After so much sniping by him in recent
years, Davidson’s new book, “The Nor-
thern Myth”, published by Melbourne
University Press (for 635.), in which he
brings all his arguments together and
marshals a wealth of detailed research to
back them up, has not created the stir it
might have done if it had been produced
out of the blue. But, even if none of
the heads of the sacred cows he attacks
may roll, he lashes out anew so strongly
against practically everybody concerned
with Northern development, sparing
only the Queensland Government, that
many faces will be at least red in the
reading of it.
The book’s main value is probably not
in its debunking, but in its success in
directing attention to fundamental eco-
nomic criteria to be taken into account in
future planning for northern develop-
ment.
In an attempt to round off his econo-
mic exposures, Davidson has ventured
into an equally contentious area in trying
to ease the public's mind about the
neglect of the north. It would be un-
fortunate if this bred even more com-
placency on the matter than exists at
present. In effect, he tells us that we
really have no need to worry about the
North. This could be dangerous. He


NEWS fOR
GOOD
CIGNRSWOKEBE
Schimmelpenninck Separado
(Actual size)
packaged -in individual cardboard
containers 2/6 each, in boxes of 10, 25/-
ScMimelpeiminck
CIGARS
Hollands
finest cigars
now. available
in Australia
Try Schimmelpenninck soon.
One cigar will tell you.
Schimmelpenninck cigars are imported for your
pleasure by Rothmans of Pall Mall ( Aust .)
Limited sole Australian agents for
Schimmelpenninck —Sigarenfabrieken
VJH Geurts & Van SchuppenN.V. Wageningen
Holland.
RPMII2
thinks we labor under the illusion that
our North is more attractive to Asian
nations than other parts of Asia and
also that the North would be less desir-
able if it were developed. There’s a
lot of room for argument about these
matters and, frankly, one would have
preferred the economics unlaced by his
speculations on them.
“Having a go”
author makes a lot of play about
A the CSIRO not coming up with the
right answers on intensive agriculture. He
complains that commercial development
should never have been proceeded with
on the basis merely of pilot schemes,
especially when, as he considers obvious,
the capital and labor involved could
have been spent to much better purpose
on agriculture below the Tropic. How-
ever, one finds it hard to swallow his
line that in its recommendations on the
Ord scheme, the CSIRO entirely neglec-
ted economic considerations and simply
based them on the results of small
experiments.
Maybe the CSIRO’s economics leave
something to be desired but, put at the
lowest, it could well be that in a pioneer-
ing spirit recommendations to proceed
on a commercial scale in the case of
some crops, say at the Ord River pro-
ject, were made in full recognition that
they would require subsidies and, in fact,
would be produced more economically in
other parts of Australia. One must give
the CSIRO and the authorities a little
credit for pushing on with such schemes,
even if at this later stage Davidson can
show that they cannot be sustained
without high subsidies.
One gets the impression that for all
his detailed economic analyses of the
schemes and possibilities for intensive
agriculture the only economics satisfac-
tory to the author are his own. When a
body like the Forster Committee (1960),
whom he reckons made the first econo-
mic assessment of Northern development
possibilities, recommends “having a go”
with pilot-farms for rice, peanuts and
cattle fattening in the Northern Terri-
tory, Davidson is appalled and cannot
understand why these farms should be
recommended when on the committee’s
own finding profitable methods of pro-
duction had not been developed first.
He is a bit too anxious to debunk every-
body, but none more than the WA
Government.
The latter's actions in going ahead
with the Ord River project are seen as
little short of criminal. As he sees it,
this was the most illogical decision of
all.
Fitting in with his general thesis that
attempts to establish intensive agricul-
ture in the North should be abandoned
and the capital and labor available be
diverted to production in areas below
the Tropic, Davidson points to the large
areas of potentially profitable land
awaiting development in the south-west
corner of Western Australia. He for-
gets, perhaps, that the WA Government
is also bringing some 600,000 new acres
under cultivation there every year and
that development on the Ord River is
an earnest that more remote parts of
the State come into the Government's
thinking, too. It is certainly unkind to
rub in the point that it is possible that
Western Australia is proceeding with
development in the north because special
Commonwealth grants are available for
this purpose which would not be available
for development in the south. If the bone
has to be pointed for the Ord, the right
quarter would be the Commonwealth.
But for my part I think that, even though
the money might well be more profitably
used in developing beef roads in the
North, expenditure on the Ord will in the
end be proved to have been worthwhile.
Indeed, even Davidson leaves open the
door for an improvement in our techni-
cal knowledge which could revolutionise
the present economics of the scheme.
Where one can agree thoroughly with
the author is that intensive agricultural
development north of the Tropic is an
expensive business and would have to be
supported by heavy subsidies as is at pre-
sent the case with sugar. It is true also
that all the crops it is possible to produce
there could be produced at a lower cost
south of the Tropic. Where I don't
agree with him is in saying that if the
resources that may be earmarked for use
on intensive agricultural development in
the North could be used profitably in
other parts of the continent “they are
being wasted in the North’’. One can
push the strict economic argument too
far even under the guise that “northern
development is proceeding at the ex-
pense of the Australian standard of
living”.
The real point to my mind is that we
have got to make a start to see exactly
what can be produced in northern areas,
particularly in regions such as the Ord
where water is plentiful. Maybe David-
son is right in his view that we have made
a poor start at it, that the economics of
the schemes have had to take second
place to the exciting revelations of the
scientists, that all manner of tropical
produce can in fact be produced in the
region. But having spent some time in
Palestine during the war and seen agri-
cultural settlements being virtually
blasted out of the rocky Judean hills
without, it would seem, too close a look
at the commercial chances, it is difficult
for me to believe that we should give
away the agricultural possibilities of the
North without some sort of a fight, or
be deflected from it by the horrid thought
of subsidies.


*. a. .w~vi
li
mm
mmm
■
I
-
dlfaK
Si:
Qualify guaranteed . . .
.when you choose NCR
Whether your office requirements call for
a simple ledger-poster or a comprehensive
accounting machine with up to 25 totals, NCR
is worthy of your investigation. NCR
- Accounting Machines are manufactured from
high-grade materials processed by closely
supervised, precision-engineering techniques.
The result is built-in mechanical reliability
and long life . . . two essential elements of a
sound investment in office equipment.
To this, add 80 years’ experience in mak-
ing decimal currency machines for the infin-
itely varied systems of 120 countries through-
out the world. .. and you have the NCR
guarantee of quality which will safeguard your
transition to decimal currency and protect
your investment on into the years to come.
Whatever your needs, it will pay you to
investigate how you can bring economies to
your record-keeping with NCR Accounting
Machines. Call your local NCR office today!
THE NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO. PTY. LTD.


The Iceberg Effect
“The no-man’s land between murder and manslaughter ”
By GORDON HAWKINS, senior lecturer in criminology
at the University of Sydney
Our appetite for murder is almost
insatiable. And in default of fresh
cases privation is sometimes pal-
liated by reminiscence. As witness last
week’s posters and headlines: POLICE
OPEN DEATH FILES, BROTHER OF
SLAIN DOCTOR HAILS PROBE,
BOGLE: A NEW PROBE and so on.
The actual story was not very sustaining
fare. But by way of compensation some
of the more succulent details of past
cases were rehearsed.
It appears that NSW Police Commis-
sioner Norman Allen has appointed a
special team of senior detectives who are
to be relieved of all other duties in order
to re-investigate all unsolved murder
cases over the past ten years. There were
mysterious references to what was vari-
ously called “an intensive ‘new look’ ap-
proach”, “a ‘fresh look’ technique” and
“a technique known as ‘the Pyjama Girl
plan’.” No details of the magic new
formula were given, but already it is
reported that “vital new leads” have been
uncovered.
It may be, of course, that apart from
the morbidly curious there are those who
are genuinely alarmed by the idea that
there are unconvicted murderers among
us. Perhaps it would help them to view
the matter in perspective if one pointed
out that there are at least 600 people
walking freely about in the Australian
community who at some future date
within the next 20 years are going to
commit murder. Moreover there are
another 200 who are going to make un-
successful attempts to do so.
Such predictions are possible because
the Australian murder and attempted
murder rates are relatively constant. The
statistics for previous years present a
picture of marked stability in the long-
term averages which is almost universally
characteristic of this type of crime. Yet
although allowance has been made above
for prospective population increase the
actual figures will pretty certainly be
higher than those suggested. And one
reason for this relates to the news stories
mentioned. For our estimates are based
on the past conviction figures. Whereas
not all murders end with a conviction.
Even among those whose crimes are
known to the police, although the convic-
tion rate is remarkably high, there are
some who are never caught.
More significantly, many murderers
commit suicide before trial; indeed in no
other crime is there such an incidence of
pre-trial suicide. Then again some are
found insane and unfit to plead. Some are
found “not guilty on the ground of in-
sanity”; and sometimes juries reduce
charges of murder to verdicts of man-
slaughter in cases which are plainly mur-
der. Nor is it uncommon for murderers
to be found not guilty even though the
police have no doubt that the killing was
the act of the accused. It is notable that
the UK Home Office Research Unit
found after a detailed analysis of court
acquittals in 1960 that there was reason
to believe the accused innocent in only
half of the cases.
Nor is this all, for there is reason to
believe that the figures for murders
known to the police represent the total
volume of murders committed. The police
are not omniscient; nor can they be omni-
present. It is quite possible that what is
called “the iceberg effect” which is known
to invalidate the statistics for many other
crimes obtains here. In other words, it
may be that the “dark figure” for mur-
ders unknown to the police is larger than
for those which are known.
It is after all by no means rare for
evidence to be given in Australian murder
trials that a doctor certified the victim’s
death from natural causes. The thallium
poisonings in the 1950 s are cases in
point. Nor do we know how many mur-
derers succeed in disposing of the bodies
of their victims. The police files in all
states contain substantial registers of
missing persons. We do not know how
many of them may have been murdered.
We do know that in the past a vic-
tim’s disappearance has often passed un-
noticed prior to the murderer’s confes-
sion or the investigation of a subsequent
murder.
Yet if one disregards the undetected
murders, as one has to do, such consider-
ations as these should at least induce
caution in making (or accepting) genera-
lisations about murder in Australia. In
this connection, however, there are other
factors which are even more decisively
inhibiting. It is not merely that the
statistics can be misleading if taken at
their face value. The fact is that they
provide no information whatsoever re-
garding such matters as the nature and
circumstances of the offences, without


which any meaningful analysis is im-
possible.
To a lesser degree much the same can
be said of the English and American sta-
tistics. But in England the statistics can
be supplemented by such serious and
informative studies as Gibson and Klein’s
“Murder” (1961) and Morris and Blom-
Cooper’s “A Calendar of Murder”
(1964). In America there is Henry and
Short's “Suicide and Homicide” (1954)
and Wolfgang's “Patterns of Criminal
Homicide” (1958) amongst other works.
In Australia no comparable studies have
appeared. Indeed despite the widespread
newspaper coverage and the almost ob-
sessional public interest there is a sense
in which it is- true to say that not
enough interest is taken in murder here.
What literature relating to the subject
there is consists in the main of accounts
of individual cases. Most of this is at
the paper-back “Great Australian
Crimes” or “The Story Behind Australia’s
Most Amazing Mystery” level. The
“story behind” incidentally usually turns
out to be identical with the story which
appeared in the papers at the time. This
is not altogether surprising as it is cus-
tomarily written by one of the crime
reporters who covered the case. Two
notable recent exceptions to the rule,
however, are K. S. Inglis’ “The Stuart
Case” (1961) and Creighton Burns’ “The
Tait Case” (1962). Unfortunately both
are more concerned with what has been
called “criminal politics” than with
crime.
A minor social problem
other study which must be men-
tioned is Stanley Johnston’s brief but
extremely valuable “Criminal Homicide
Rates in Australia” (1962). Johnston is
principally concerned to demonstrate, on
the basis of analysis of the Common-
wealth Year Book figures and Police
annual reports, that the common journa-
listic tendency to contemplate only the
short term can be highly misleading and
unnecessarily alarming. He does this
very effectively, showing that the mean
rate of murder and attempted murder
convictions (grouped together in the sta-
tistics) has fallen from 7.79 per million
of population in the first five years of
the century to 3.53 per million in the
last five years prior to 1960. He shows
too that, on the figures, “criminal homi-
cide is less frequent in Australia than in
most other places”. It is probable, for
reasons mentioned earlier, that a realistic
murder rate would be higher than these
figures suggest. But even if the figures
were doubled or trebled murder would
still be a relatively minor social problem.
The fact is that even as a form of
violent death being murdered is a com-
parative rarity. The number of persons
killed on the roads in one State alone
(NSW) for whose deaths drivers were
responsible (by reason of intoxication,
excessive speed, overtaking improperly,
etc.) was 640 in 1963-64. This is thirty-
two times greater than the average
annual number of murder convictions in
the whole of Australia in recent years.
And incidentally 640 represents an in-
crease of 133 over the figure for 1962-
63. Yet a single murder excites far
greater public interest and arouses much
more violent feelings than any number
of deaths on the roads however culpable
the drivers responsible may be.
There seems to be little rational basis
for this. Indeed in States where capital
punishment has been abolished (NSW
since 1955 and Queensland since 1922)
there is a strong case for abandoning the
distinction between murder and man-
slaughter altogether and substituting one
category of culpable or unlawful homi-
cide. Ruper Cross, the present Vinerian
Professor of Law at Oxford, raised this
question when he was in Sydney in 1962.
He remarked, too, that although it usually
surprises laymen very much "it is not at
all easy to distinguish between murder
and manslaughter”. The characteristic
understatement points to the crux of the
matter.
For the common law distinction be-
tween murder and manslaughter has
never been clear. Both cover a wide
range of offences which differ greatly in
character and culpability; and there is
what has been called “a no-man’s land
between murder and manslaughter”.
This has proved to be fertile soil for
legal logic chopping. Yet what pre-
cisely is the point of differentiating be-
tween the type of murder involving
‘reckless indifference to human life” and
manslaughter involving “gross negli-
gence”? Why go through the process of
attempting to assess what in a particular
case may constitute sufficiently “grossly
insulting language or gestures” for a
crime reduced from murder to man-
slaughter? In Both cases the objective
harm involved —the death of a human
being—is identical. The degree of moral
selfishness or wickedness may be differ-
ent. But is there any satisfactory
answer to the objection posed by Sir
Ernest Gowers who was Chairman of the
UK Royal Commission on Capital
Punishment, 1949-53: “To assess the
gravity of crimes precisely in terms of
moral responsibility is a task we may
hope to see competently performed on
the day of judgment, but we would be
wise to acknowledge that it is beyond
our powers”?
Nor is there any reason to regard
murderers as always particularly vicious
criminals from whom society can only
be protected by statutory life sentences.
Indeed the rate of recidivism amongst
murderers is abjut the lowest for any
type of offender. And all the available
evidence shows murder to be over-
whelmingly a domestic crime—a family
affair in which husbands kill their wives
and parents kill their children.
Someone inside
UK Home Office Research Unit
-*■ found that nearly half of all adult
women (i.e., over the age of 16) mur-
dered are killed by their legal husbands;
and another quarter are killed by other
relatives or lovers. So it is not “prow-
lers” or the figures lurking in the shadows
outside the home that they should be
most apprehensive about; but rather
someone inside , probably sitting stolidly
in front of the TV. Again, children are
customarily (and wisely) cautioned not
to speak to strange men; yet about three-
quarters of victims under 16 are not
killed by strange men at all. They are
killed by their parents or other relatives.
It is interesting to note that other Eng-
lish, and also American, studies pro-
duced analogous results. It may be that
the pattern is slightly different in Aus-
tralia but an examination of Press re-
ports over a number of years suggests
that it is very similar. Indeed the pro-
blem of murder seems very largely to
be that of protecting wives from their
husbands and children from their
parents.
What can we do about it? Unfor-
tunately, reputedly deterrent penalties
like capital punishment are likely to be
of little use in such cases. Most of
them seem not only to arise out of un-
happy circumstances which invite com-
passion, but also to be the result of such
great emotional stress as to rule out any
consideration of the consequential
penalty.
But then there is no evidence that
hanging provides the public with more
effective protection against any type of
murder than imprisonment. The death
penalty is still available, and occasionally
enforced, in Victoria. South Australia,
Western Australia, Tasmania and the
ACT. Yet the incidence of criminal
homicide is just as frequent and just as
consistent in these hanging jurisdictions
as in Queensland and NSW where it has
been abolished.
Why this should be so, when other
crimes are subject to marked variations,
we do not know. Nor, at present, are
v/e trying to find out. Indeed our know-
ledge of the nature of murder is extreme-
ly limited. Amongst other things, it has
been suggested that pharmacological
experiments conducted on convicted
murderers might help to enlarge it. But
it is characteristic of the nature of our
interest in the matter that currently we
either ignore or destroy all our potential
research subjects in this field.


AROUND MELBOURNE
Dogs Chasing Each Other’s Tails
Architects mount their old hobby horses
rpHE symbol for the 14th Australian
Architectural Convention was two
bent arrows made into a square. When
asked what it meant, one architect re-
plied “Search me. Maybe it means two
dogs chasing each other’s tails.”
And sometimes it did seem that way.
At the convention there was much re-
morseless self-examination. Almost
every speaker told of the frustrations
of the 20th-century architect, of the
disastrous urban mistakes and of the
immutable nature of urban authority.
Sydney architects attacked Sydney, Mel-
bourne architects attacked Melbourne
and the guest, Arthur Odell, president
of the American Institute of Architects,
even had a few home truths about the
US.
Maybe the most colorful speaker was
George Clarke from Sydney. He said:
“Our skyline reflects only a simple-
minded pursuit of apparent height, ap-
parent power and real money. The rush
from one air-conditioned box to another
has become, all too often, a necessary
evil . . .
“The rebuilding of the northern half
of central Sydney over the past eight
years has been a shameful mess. The
city has been disgracefully dehumanised.”
At this stage someone wffiispered in my
ear “Clarke is Sydney’s angry young
town planner.”
By now the young town planner was
on to how the NSW Government called
for tenders for the Rocks area: “The
prospectus was as unresearched and am-
biguous as any such document could
ever be. Nine highly qualified teams
of* planners, engineers and architects
wasted 18 months in tortured secrecy
from each other, trying to decipher what
they were supposed to be doing. Such
scarce resources of skilled manpower
could have been far more usefully em-
ployed working out guideline plans for
nine separate redevelopment areas. Let's
hope the competition system is never so
abused again.” He finished by point-
ing out that what Australia needed and
wasn’t getting was some sort of national
leadership to stop the sprawl and mess
oT our cities.
Then we had Harry Seidler. Roy
Grounds introduced him this way: “When
Mr and Mrs Seidler’s boy came to Syd-
ney nobody knew what a cat was being
let loose among the pigeons. Since then
the feathers had not stopped flying nor
had the dust settled.” Well, Mr Seidler
got on to his old hobby horse of lofty
office towers which took up 25 per cent
or less of the space, leaving breathing
space for humans down below. He
talked of the mess of street architecture,
higgledy-piggledy buildings one against
the other and he called for Government
legislation to deal with entire city blocks
as an architectural entity.
He conducted his talk smoothly with
great sophistication. For example, he
showed us a whole series of slides of
Sydney buildings. Almost every one was
a Harry Seidler building. This was
never mentioned. We just instinctively
knew. Even the 100 or so students
present, knew.
But there was one little bit which
wasn't in the script. The Melbourne City
Council and the Victorian Institute of
Architects ran a competition for the re-
development of the block opposite Myers
in Lonsdale Street. This is a block
which has often been mentioned for a
“dream civic scheme for Melbourne”.
The 1500-guinea first prize was won by
the Melbourne firm of Leith Bartlett.
- Harry Seidler said: “My firm was
most interested in this competition and
we w'ent to work. The main feature was
to be a tow'er building of 640 feet.” And
smiling graciously he added: “And this
would have given you in Melbourne
Australia's tallest building. But we kept
getting strange letters altering the con-
ditions. Then I w'as told about this
antiquated tw'o to one formula. I rang
an architect friend in Melbourne to find
out if they were serious. Apparently
they were. So at that stage I decided
to give it away.”
tTVie formula is indeed one of Mel-
bourne’s oddities. It states that the
height of a building can’t be more than
twice the width of the street it fronts.
So Harry Seidler's tower could have been
nowhere else but in the centre of the
block. Maybe he was so irked because
the winners of the competition ignored
the formula anyway.
As part of the convention the 28
entries for the competition have been
on show at the cultural centre. And
the Lord Mayor, Cr Curtis has said:
“We have sufficient data for a logical
and economical development of the
area.” Now Melbourne is under the
impression that somebody will do some-
thing about it, with a tower building of
50 storeys, a new town hall, 16-storey
emporium and all.
But last Saturday a dear little pub in
Lonsdale Street called the Busy Bee
closed its doors forever. To replace
the Busy Bee we’re to get a building
(architects Bogle and Banfield) which will
have six floors of car parking and seven
floors of office space. Opposite Myers
it should be a nice little goldmine, but
how does this fit into the grand plan?
It doesn’t. It’s bang in the middle of
the shopping emporium. The permit
for it was issued even before the compe-
tition was decided. So we do, indeed,
have dogs chasing each other’s'tails.
There were plenty of talks, from the
Town Clerk, Mr Rogan, from the Local
Government Minister, Mr Hamer, and
on ugliness from Robin Boyd. One good
line: “Heaven knows we need that free-
way (the South Eastern). Expediently,
the freeway edged away from the old
buildings and waded into the Yarra—
removing probably forever any likelihood
of a landscape development of our poor
old river. Everyone concerned must
have known what should have been done.
Last century they knew: consider the
South Bank along Alexandra Avenue.”
But the convention wasn't all talk.
There were the bus tours to city build-
ings, to Monash University and the rest,
but the piece de resistance was the
Walter Burley Griffin tour. Just as the
best of Griffin is beginning to disappear
he has become an architectural fad. The
tour covered some Griffin houses and
flats in Toorak, but the real master-
pieces were Newman College at Mel-
bourne University and the Capitol
Theatre. The college is superbly intact.
When it was built in 1916 it was
described in one journal as “grotesque”
and it was particularly unloved by the
Rector, Father Murphy. As the old
story goes, he asked for Gothic and
got Griffin.. Its main entrance is a
glorious octagonal-domed dining hall in
reinforced concrete.
The tour ended at the Capitol Theatre
with all the elements of a Wagnerian
tragedy. Many an architect has described
this as Melbourne’s best building. When
we arrived the pneumatic drills were in
action and they were ripping the guts
out of it for a shopping arcade.
Kevin Borland, our Griffin expert,
said: “We didn’t fight hard enough to
save this building. We're too inhibited.
Maybe w 7 e should have marched up and
down with placards. The design w'as
perfect. It was like Beethoven's sth
Symphony. All the details were repeated
in everything. The intimate Griffin de-
sign was repeated right down to the ash-
trays, the EXIT signs, the windows, the
screen curtains. The marvellous foyer
with its domed ceilings used to remind
me of the whispering gallery at St Paul’s.
Call out and your voice was repeated.
Oh yes, the ceiling will be preserved in
a smaller theatre upstairs but the con-
cept will be ruined. “As they say, ‘the
operation was a success but the patient
died’.”
BATMAN


Chaucerwise
BY DAVID SWAIN
With us thcr was a DOCTOR: by his dresse
Arid big and shinyng Bentley I wolde gesse
His praktis bisye was and trewthe to tel
The sicke he treatyd kept him verray wel.
The latest drugges to him wer such a boon,
Hee scribbled them on eche prescripcioun;
Therto beloved was hee of pharmacyes
That changed the labels and increased their fees.
His sombre waityng-roome hadde lcatherne chayres
Where pacicnts sat avoidyng sondree stares
In silens, and wolde glance when they wer bored
At ladycs magazines - an ancient hoard
So different from the bokes that lyned the wal
That al impressive wer and technikal.
To al mennes maladyes they gave a name;
For moste of them the tretement was the same;
Three tymes a day in water,’ hee wolde speke.
die send the bill. Com back ageyn next weeke.’
Whenever pacicnts wanted to discuss
Ther sicknesse, hee wolde sey they made a fusse
Or elles hee gave an explanacioun
In Latin termes of grete confusioun.
But othre tymes liee'd speke nat but beguile
With bedsyde manere and disarmyng smyle.
Methinks bee holdes himself in heighe esteemc
Ful knowing hee protects the verray creme
Of private propertye that eche man ownes:
A frayl and profitable bagge of bones.
A tal disdeyneful MODEL ther did stande
On lcgges ful long and graceful, and one handc
Most elegantlee posed uponne hir hippe.
When othre folke wolde drinke slice coldc but sippe
And nibble food that othre folke wolde eat,
So fragyle did slice seme. Hir deyntec fcete
Supportyd wer by shoon with heels so heighe
Methoghte shee wavered as the wind passed by.
A visage pincht hadde shee and somewhat pale;
A 1 bonee wer hir chekes as shee did ail.
Hir eyes al shynyng wer and huge and rounde
And shadowes grene and blue did ther abounde
With thinne browes pencilled on hir upper zone
And languid lashes that were nat hir owne.
This was hir image self-desygned and drawn,
To semeth a sophisticated faun.
Shee did nat walk, but balanced shee hir hippes;
Shee did nat smyle, slice meerly stretcht hir lippes,
As if the worlde a camera sholde bee
To take hir photographe eternalee.
Hir backward-tiltyd head up heighe shee held;
'Thereto I asked hir what grete materes dwelled
Withinne that head that was so fayre withoute.
(Som thoghtes of lyf or love I did nat doubte
Or mysterye too depc for man to plumb.)
Slide answered: Trantik problems. Here are som:
Is my hyre soft or sparklyng in this lighte?
Is my left profyle better than my righte?
And which ensemble captures my allure
A Playboy birtheday-suite or Flaute Couture?’
A youtheful SATIRIST thcr was that oft
At sacred institutiouns jeered and scoft:
To him, religioun is a hoarye joke,
A 1 politicks corrupt, and titled folke
Pretentious clownes. What most excites his spleene
Is homage to Hir Majestee the Queene.
To see the heighe and mightee bite the duste,
To see what lurkes beneathe the upper cruste,
Fils common folke with glee. The big surprise,
When satire cuts tal poppyes downc to size,
Is that the vicktims do nat seme to minde.
Oure satirist is then bemused to finde—
Tho startyng oute with scurrilous intent—
Himselfe a part of the Establishment.
When yow are ridiculed, your best defence
Is joynyng in the laughter; this preventes
The mocker scoring pointes and cancels oute
Whatever vice or follye yow may floute.
Now discencertyd by the shrewde applause,
The satirist bewails his bluntyd claws
And seekes for othre targets to attacke—
Hee’s got to satirize or get the sacke.
He tries sick humour, has a cracke at sex
And with four-letter wordes his worke bedeckes.
When nouthing that hee does obstructes his fame,
When judges and professours cleere his name,
We have a wel-payed hacke, I wolde assess;
A useful rebel ruined by successe.


“It Must Be True”
Mr Pick-a-Box v. EB
By BARRY JONES
In 1960 I found myself as a central
figure in a highly publicised (but
nonetheless genuine) dispute with the
mighty “Encyclopaedia Britannica” on the
question “Who was the first British
Governor-General of India?” EB
seemed to plump for Warren Hastings
(Vol. 11, page 244, any edition). I
knew this was wrong but could not come
up with the right answer. The best name
I could suggest was Earl Canning, the
first Governor-General to be titular
Viceroy. Dr Marjorie Jacobs and
A. G. L. Shaw, appealed to as breathing
authorities with some shaky support from
an Indian government official, ruled that
the title had first been conferred on Lord
William Bentinck by the 1833 India Act.
Actually EB had the right answer tucked
away in the articles on “Bengal” and
“Bentinck”. The “India” article is am-
biguous and the three-page “Hastings”
biography, now more than sixty years
old, creaks at the joints. The Hastings-
Bentinck “controversy”—if the word is
applicable to so minor a point—provoked
nearly a thousand letters in the next five
years seeking information about ency-
clopaedias. Now I can refer enquirers
to Dr Einbinder—if they have 61s. 6d.
handy.
Harvey Einbinder’s recently published
“The Myth of the Britannica” contains
373 pages of ammunition for the sceptic,
and a convincing argument that the
world ought to treat itself to a new
major encyclopaedia at least once a cen-
tury, something as long and accurate as
the great 1910-11 edition of EB but in-
corporating the photographic, diagram-
matic and mapping techniques of the
19605.
Einbinder incorporates a list of 666
major articles, reprinted without altera-
tion in the 1963 edition, dating from the
1875-1911 era. Significantly, only twelve
of these entries come from the letters
A to E inclusive, which suggests that by
the year 2000 most of the F to Z entries
will have been replaced, although the
replacements themselves will be archaic
too. EB’s claim of ten million words
revised in each edition (that is, 25 per
cent of the total) by a team of hawk-
eyed sleuths eager to extirpate error is
best described as, er, exaggeration.
Dr Einbinder examines the history,
contents, accuracy and modernity of “the
greatest treasure of knowledge ever pub-
lished” (EB’s self description) with its
27,357 pages and 38,000,000 words. His
conclusion echoes Andre Gide’s descrip-
tion of Victor Hugo, “The best we have,
alas!”
EB was founded in Edinburgh in 1768.
The London publishers A. and C. Black
bought it towards the end of the Victorian
era and after continued losses unloaded
it in 1899 to the American booksellers
Walter Jackson and Horace Hooper,
whiz salesmen who pioneered door-
knocks of almost Churchillian dimen-
sions, with instalment buying and direct
mail campaigning. They stuck to the
British image by linking EB with the
London “Times”, temporarily down on
its luck, to the financial advantage of
both. When Northcliffe bought the
“Times” in 1908 he rowed with EB, so
Cambridge University took over the im-
plied editorial control. Einbinder stresses
that the relationship was purely fiscal.
Hooper and Jackson broke their part-
nership in 1908. Jackson wanted to
maximise profits but Hooper, anglophilic,
was keener on EB’s prestige (“To me it’s
just like the Bible”). The great 11th edi-
tion (1910-11), 44 million words long, is
his monument.
Hooper, sole owner 1915-20, sold out
to the Chicago mail order house of Sears,
Roebuck. Sales fell to a record low in
1933. Sears failed to find buyers for
sets or company for two decades. EB
was offered to Chicago University for
300,000 dollars in 1941—but the price
was too steep. At last in 1943 the ad-
vertising agent (and future Democratic
Senator) William Benfon negotiated a
sale by raking up 100,000 dollars in cold
cash, winning a two-thirds interest for
himself. Since 1943 Chicago University
has received 18,000,000 dollars from EB
sales, and Benton-, presumably, twice as
much. Of course merchandising has
come a long way in the last twenty-two
years. The same cannot be said of EB’s
text.
Inexplicably, for a book first published
late in 1964, Einbinder has based his
analysis on the 1958 edition of EB —a
particularly poor one. By 1961 there was
a substantial updating of illustrations
and technical articles (compare the pre-
and post-1961 articles on “Anatomy”)
and a few inches were found to squeeze
in some minor figures of World War II
for the first time—de Gaulle, Nimitz,
Alexander, Rundstedt, Montgomery,
Guderian. He devotes thirty pages to the
revisions in the 1963 edition—enough to
disprove EB’s claim that 85 per cent of
the text was “revised” (whatever that
means) in the period 1958-63—but to
some extent he has weakened the force
of his argument. Critics of obsolescence
have a special responsibility not to be
out of date themselves.
Lord Acton insisted that a strong man
with a dagger should not be followed by
a weak man with a sponge who wipes
out the crime, and Einbinder concludes
that EB “fails to meet the moral chal-
lenge posed by contemporary events”.
Until 1963 articles on “Anti-Semitism”,
“National Socialism”, “Hitler”, “Ger-
many”, “Jews” and “Concentration
Camps” were absurdly short and passed
over the horrors of genocide with barely
a sidelong glance. The “Concentration
Camps” entry now devotes a column to
the Nazi era: formerly a brief paragraph
ended with a cross-reference to the Boer
War. The 1958 article on “Lynching”
(written in 1910) is written “to justify
Southern mob violence”. Articles on
“Catholicism”, “Jesuits”, “Inquisition”
and some of the seamier Popes have been
defused since 1911 and show “too much
deference to clerical ideas”. Until 1963
the bombings of Hiroshima and Dresden
received only a few lines. There are no
photographs of war damage or atrocities.
Generally, EB has not caught up with
World War 11, reflecting its traditional
10 to 20-year time-lag on current events.
(The argument that EB’s Year Books are
rarely more than a year behind simply
will not do.) Compared with the exhaus-
tive treatments of the US Civil War and
World War I, the 1939-45 struggle seems
to be little more than a skirmish, mea-
sured in column-inches. The Battle of
Jutland (1916) scores ten pages and five
diagrams while the Battle of Leyte Gulf
(1944), the biggest naval action of all
time, has no entry of its own and rates
less than a column in the article on
“World War II”. There are eight pages
on the Battles of the Marne and eight
lines on the siege of Stalingrad. It may be
EB's editorial policy to wait until all the
participants are dead before writing at
length.
Lack of editorial balance in length or
treatment of subjects also receives cen-
sure. The article “Logic” is so complex,
plunging into mathematical formulae
after the first paragraph, that it could do
nothing to raise one’s conversational IQ,
at least not so that one could talk lucidly


FROM THIS MOMENT ON
ALL OTHER CAMERAS ARE OBSOLETE
r 5:
itllli
■v'w'V
: /.
*
POIA R 0 ( O
POLAROID Land cameras
make it old fashioned
to wait for your pictures
COLOUR prints
in one minute
Exciting, True Colour Prints in 60 seconds
Polaroid colour film is news.
You can be one of the first to experience the thrill of seeing a beautiful print in
true colour 60 seconds after you have taken the picture, or a black and white print
in only 10 seconds. Think what you could do with this.
The Simplest Cameras to Operate in the World
If you can press a button you can operate a Polaroid. There are two models to
choose from. The budget priced 101 (first release outside the U.S.A.) and the
amazing Automatic 100.
Pictures can be taken anywhere
In the dark or in bright sunlight. The magic eye controls the transistorized shutter,
automatically setting for a perfect picture. (And you see what you get right away.)
Eight-exposure film pack can be loaded in 7 seconds.
Polaroid is big business
No efficient business today can afford the old fashioned method of waiting for prints
(your competitors won't) . . . You may be able to combine business and private
use for the purchase of your Polaroid camera.
How Could You Go Past A Colour Print in 60 Seconds
Unlike any print you've ever seen before.
Doesn't this change your mind about photography . . . ? It's changing the world's
mind about photography.
If we have not convinced you already that you should run down and see a
demonstration by your local dealer, perhaps you would like to send for further
information.
To GREENSON PHOTOGRAPHICS PTY. LTD. SYDNEY: 396 Kent St.,
Phone 29 2119. MELBOURNE: 110 Little Bourke St., Phone 32 4487
BRISBANE: Phone 2 7716. ADELAIDE: Phone 23 5590. PERTH:
Phone 8 4051.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please tick the appropriate square:
□ For Industrial/Scientific Use
0 For Personal Use
Polaroid, Polaroid Land Camera, and Polacolor are Regd. Trademarks of Polaroid Corp-ra'icn.
G P 6&
to those charming girls in the advertise-
ment. On the other hand legends such
as the Black Hole of Calcutta, Betsy
Ross’s flag, George Washington’s cherry
tree, and Paul Bunyan (a 20th-century
advertising stunt) are faithfully reprinted.
Teddy Roosevelt has eleven columns
FDR only three and his work after 1936
is covered in fifteen tines. Auguste
Comte rates twelve columns, while the
total space devoted to Pavlov, Freud,
Durkhelm, Max Weber, Keynes, Russell,
Wittgenstein, G. E. Moore and Sartre is
less than four. Mao Tse-tung has two
paragraphs and his unkempt mates
apparently do not deserve any. There
are pages of dreary articles on minor
politicians and writers of Victorian Eng-
land but no room for Henry Moore,
Rouault, Leger, Britten, Aaron Copland,
Malraux, Auden, O'Casey.
The article on “Australia—History”,
despite the signature J.F.C., fails to men-
tion Chifley, Evatt or Calwell even in
passing, and the. only contemporary Aus-
tralians with biographical entries are
Bruce, Blarney, Menzies and Burnet.
Some marvellous gaffes are to be found
in’Eß's pages—although no worse than in
many texts. Until. 1954 the article
“Pacific Questions” concluded, “One of
the most interesting of Pacific Questions
is how far Bolshevik Russia can succeed
in the Orient. In China its propaganda
is probably doomed to failure because of
the almost universal peasant-proprietor-
ship.” The 1958 edition asserts roundly
that “Malays are indolent, pleasure
loving, improvident .. . dislike toil ex-
ceedingly . . . have little notion of honesty
.. . their courage is not high. The sexual
morality of the Malays is very lax.” The
article on “Birth Control” argues that
US population, after reaching a peak of
160,000,000 “between 1960 and 1980,
will be followed by a decline in num-
bers”. As late as 1963 the author of
“Guerrilla Warfare” insists that “guer-
rillas can never overthrow an enemy or
win a war”. No? The 1963 edition
still recommends the use of swan quills
rather than goose: crow quills are natur-
ally preferred for fine writing. Tamil
literature is dismissed with a sniff as
“literary rubbish which would much bet-
ter have remained in the obscurity of
manuscript”. Einbinder very reasonably
suggests that the date of each article and
the date of the last revision be printed
under all entries.
If EB were less concerned with “mer-
chandising” and more with maintaining
the status and accuracy of their property
they would employ Dr Einbinder and
others like him to update EB and weed
out the errors and distorted emphases.
But like other organisations under fire,
EB is pathologically touchy about cri-
ticism and has replied to Einbinder’s
book with a stream of abuse.


For the Connoisseur!
lindeman RESERVE BIN VINTAGE WINES
Lindeman’s Wines announce that they have available limited quantities of
Reserve Private Bin Wines selected for Connoisseurs from THE VERY BEST
Vintage of Australia’s finest vineyards. These wines may be ordered through
your usual Supplier.
VINTAGE 1963 LINDEMAN’S RESERVE RIESLING BIN 2222
Made from Riesling grapes grown at Lindeman’s “Ben Ean” and “Sunshine”
Vineyards, Hunter River Valley, N.S.W. A flowery-smelling aromatic Riesling
with a round full-flavoured palate. Awarded:
GOL'd MEDAL 1964 SYDNEY SHOW, ONE-YEAR-OLD DRY WHITE,
GOLD MEDAL 1964 BRISBANE SHOW, OPEN HOCK CLASS.
VINTAGE 1963 LINDEMAN’S RESERVE WHITE BURGUNDY BIN 2240
This wine was made from Semilion grapes grown at Lindeman’s “Ben Ean”
and “Sunshine” Vineyards, Hunter River Valley, N.S.W. Bin 2240 is a soft,
round, generous White Burgundy suitable for serving with practically any
food or dish. It was awarded:
GOLD MEDAL 1963 BRISBANE SHOW,
SILVER MEDAL 1963 ADELAIDE SHOW, AS A ONE-YEAR-OLD DRY WHITE.
Wines from
the Kelly
Country
The blender’s art
As consumption increases, blended
wines become more common. This
is not a bad thing, but simply
means that cellar style is sought after
rather than regional style. The blender
receives the wines from his various
winery managers, buys other wines for
other qualities to balance them, and
uses his skill and knowledge of the public
requirement to produce a style that he
can repeat year after year in spite of
vintage variations. Top Show Award
wines are often in this category, and
often in larger quantities than is normal,
which is about time! But by their very
popularity, these blends have emphasised
the importance of the particular and
often peculiar product of one vineyard.
These smaller vineyards dominate in
Victoria, once the proud leader in Aus-
tralian wine, and now, in that lovely
Dylanesque cliche, .“A shadow of its
former self!” I visited two recently,
and enjoyed wines that could have come
from nowhere else. Commercial success
has come to both of them, but the wines
refuse to pander to it. If you want to
drink them at their best, buy them and
keep them, to eventually enjoy the kind
of wine seen too rarely today.
Chateau Tahbilk is much praised and
publicised for its beauty, but in this case
it was not the beauty that alone won
me. It was the red and white wine.
Three grapes, of the six grown there,
produce wines of much distinction. Red
from the Cabernet and Shiraz, white
from the famous Marsanne.
The reds are high in color and this
color holds for many years. The nose
is pungent with full volume, the palate
clean, inclined to hardness, the Cabernet
producing wines with perhaps more
fruit or grape character that are a
little softer than the other,Ahough the
difference between the two reds’ styles
is not as marked as in other regions.
The finish shows considerable lift with
marked acid that needs a fair bit of
body to balance it.
The Marsanne produces an outstand-
ing white wine, with delicate color,"quite
distinctive bouquet, and fine full flavor.
This used to be marked “Chablis style”,
though with age it tends more to a White
cßurgundy character. In fact it is Tah-
bilk Marsanne, a regional wine of con-
siderable import, a dry white wine.
Proof of longevity was a bottle of the
’52 vintage, round and soft with a lovely
full flavor and smooth lingering finish,
the color deepened, but not darkened,
with the years.
There is a marked'variation, with par-
ticular worries about acid, from year
to year. The good years, so suitable for
laying down, are ’59, ’6O and the ’64s,
and the ’sBs and ’62s were not far be-
hind. Fine wines made by a splendid
gentleman, Eric Purbrick, who collects
old oak and English pewter. Such
sensitivity must produce wines of distinc-
tion!
Further north, one of the worst de-
signed labels in Australia attempts to
embalm one of the most robust wines,
the noted Bundarra Dry Red. This
vineyard and winery, about five miles
from Cdenrowan, still retains some of the
reckless character of the area’s favorite
son. And I mean favorite. Joke about
him here and your nose, or worse still,
your supplies, will be cut off. Alan
Bailey, the vigneron, hearty as his wine,
is proud of his Commando service and
casually flicks throwing knives into dig-
nified, unpro(esting oak casks. “You
can’t beat the knife. No noise if you
missed . . . which wasn't often.”
And a walk through the lines of casks
reveals a tiny one-man helicopter, a sort
of aerial Go-Kart which Bailey uses to
scare off kangaroos and Rebate Men.
He is justly proud of his wine, and en-
joys people who enjoy it.
The reds are full of character, big
earthy wines of great flavor and body
that take years to soften out. But when
they do they are quite something, Tom
Jones rather than Beau Brummel wines.
A Frenchman is reported to have said of
them, “They are food, win e,and a good
cigar!” and an Australian, typically,
“Liquid Steak and Eggs!”
Both the wines of Tahbilk and Bun-
darra need age. It is no use to drink
them young (though many people still
like to) and feel disappointed because of
their aggressive qualities. Buy them and
keep them, and then one day when your
palate needs a change, your soul a lift
and your body fresh strength, you will
have the right wines on hand.
CELLARMASTER


Vietnam: Two Views
Nukes, negotiation, and a carrot
The trouble with many of the American correspondents in
South Vietnam, according to a former Acting Premier,
Dr Nguyen Xuan Oanh, is that they expect the Vietnam-
ese to behave like “Connecticut Yankees”.
Until the Diem government was overthrown in 1963 he
was teaching economics at Harvard, and to his American
friends he is known as “Jack Owen”. He became Deputy
Premier in January, 1964, when General Khan took over in
Saigon for the first time, and was Acting Premier in August,
1964, and in January and February of this year. At 43, he
is now Governor of the National Bank of Vietnam.
While talking to The Bulletin, Dr Oanh discovered that he
had problems with some of the Australian Press. When he
was passing through Sydney on his way to the ECAFE talks in
New Zealand, Dr Oanh was reported in the Sydney “Daily
Mirror” (March 17) and in “The Australian” (March 18) as
saying that three South Vietnamese intellectuals who had dis-
tributed peace pamphlets in Saigon had been parachuted into
North Vietnam, but without parachutes.
When he heard, Dr Oanh said: “That’s a terrible thing.
It is purely a fabrication. Was I reported as saying that? I
can’t understand it. 1 will investigate this and see about sueing
the newspapers concerned. I publicly deny that I ever said
anything of the sort.” According to the latest cable reports the
three men were to be marched across the border into North
Vietnam.
Concern that what is happing in South Vietnam is misunder-
stood and often misreported in the West came out in much
of what Dr Oanh had to say:
On Democracy.
“There is a need for patience and one should not get un-
duly alarmed at the instability of government in South Viet-
nam. We do not have a tradition of legislative opposition.
We have been at war for 20 years and the country is getting
its first lessons in democracy. Remember that we could have
opted for a dictatorial government but instead we chose
democracy. George Washington had serious instability for
seven years after his revolution. We have been going for
little more than a year.”
On the War. '
“I won’t be revealing any secrets if I tell you that on the
night the Americans retaliated in the Bay of Tonkin we in
the Cabinet toasted each other in champagne, and so did
many other people in Saigon. The retaliatory raids have
been a great stimulus, and for the first time we can see a
ray of hope pointing to the cessation of hostilities. I'm not as
naive to think that a few bombs alone will end the war. But
we have a clear message to get over and that is that
aggression just does not pay.”
On Negotiation.
“The Vietcong will have to find some way of telling us
that they get our message. They can do this by withdrawing,
say, to a line of demarcation at the 17th Parallel. Of course
they may be hurried up by giving them a piece of carrot.
Would it be possible, for instance, for the West to co-operate
with us in financing a joint programme of economic develop-
ment for both North and South Vietnam?”
Still optimistic, he told a Press conference in Canberra the
next day that the war could be over by the end of this year,
negotiated from a position of strength.
The role of correspondents in South Vietnam, according to
“Time” special correspondent John Scott, is the same as
it is everywhere to try to tell the truth with due regard
and humility for one’s limitations. In South Vietnam for a
brief stay of two days last month, his viewpoint is that the
situation is certainly worse than when he was there two years
ago.
The Bulletin spoke to Mr Scott a few hours before he left
Sydney for New York and after he had spent 11 days here
lecturing to diplomats and businessmen. More correctly, Mr
Scott spoke to The Bulletin rapidly, fluently, concisely.
From behind a bow-tie and horn-rimmed glasses he shot rapid-
fire delivery. A youngish 53, he has been with “Time” since
1941.
He did not want himself thought of as an expert on Vietnam
but was just reporting his assessment. So firing at a rate The
Bulletin conservatively estimated at around 300 words per
minute, Mr Scott reported:
On Echelons.
American upper echelons of senior military officers, diplo-
mats, and officials in South Vietnam were optimistic that
the US retaliatory raids would enable negotiations from a
position of strength. The lower echelons in the Army and
the journalists were sceptical. They saw an intensification
of hostilities rather than a diminution. Why the difference
in viewpoint?
“Well, I don't really know. Perhaps the upper echelons know
something the lower don't. They may have information that
China will disavow North Vietnam, for instance. Or perhaps
they are more convinced by the deductive reasoning of Penta-
gon specialists who they are I don't know that with a
forceful, vigorous approach the enemy can be intimidated to
give up the fight. Perhaps it is because the lower echelons
have been shot at and the upper echelons haven’t.”
On the South Vietnamese.
The instability of government in Saigon was serious. Some
future government might well invite the United States to
leave South Vietnam. It would be a humiliating withdrawal.
“I do not speak Vietnamese and did not communicate with
many of them but I suspect that most of all they want to get
the damn thing stopped. I do not mean to suggest that the
answer lies in unilateral withdrawal. This would certainly be
unfortunate and probably disastrous. We’ve got to stick it out.
My only question is was it wise to undertake retaliation at this
time in view of the problems of political instability.”
On Escalation.
Escalation could lead to a number of possibilities. The
Chinese were most unlikely to intervene in any invasion
of South Vietnam until the North Vietnamese had com-
mitted themselves.
“If the Chinese did cross the border into South Vietnam
there is quite a possibility that we would then clobber them
with nukes, substantially reducing the population of China. This
would, of course, raise serious economic, demographic and
public relations problems for the United States.”
Only those? No strategic problems? . “There would be no
strategic problems because a nuclear attack would solve the
strategic problem in South Asia. Of course there are moral
and, if you like, religious problems.” Was not nuclear attack an
extreme, unlikely response? “There would probably have to be
another Korea before it happened.”


“Beware of
Fight-Fight, Talk-Talk”
In an interview with the Ambassador of the Republic of China,
Dr Chen Chih-mai, Sam Lipski asked:
• What happens after Mao Tse-tung and after Chiang Kai-shek?
• Will Communist China get into the United Nations at the next
session?
• Has a point of no return been reached in Vietnam?
TAr Chen, what are the chances of
Communist China getting into the
United Nations at the next session?
Very little, if any, for two reasons.
Firstly, the United Nations in the last
session has got itself into a situation
where a matter like this cannot even be
brought up. The question of Chinese
representation, as it is called, is an ex-
tremely divisive issue and many quarters
are reluctant in insisting upon its reso-
lution under the present circumstances.
Secondly, there is the question of the atti-
tude of the Member States of the United
Nations. Of the 115 Member States,
many of them are new African nations.
The events of the past year seem
to have put the Chinese Communist
regime out of favor—there is its support
for the Congo rebels, there is the assas-
sination of Burundi’s Prime Minister, etc.
It is quite apparent that the Chinese
Communists have overplayed their hand.
The new government leaders in Africa
get nervous when they realise that the
Chinese Communists are in collusion
with the Communists and the dissident
elements in their countries. Free China
has sent eleven technical aid teams work-
ing in various parts of Africa trying to
help the new African nations to improve
agriculture, small industries and medi-
cal or health facilities. Free China helps
the new governments, while the Com-
munists try to overthrow them, even by
assassination. This difference has become
increasingly clear to the Africans. Those
who oppose admission constitute an over-
whelming majority in the UN.
Now that Communist China has some
sort of nuclear device, do you think the
argument for getting her into the United
Nations will grow stronger on the
grounds that there is more control over
her in than out?
The argument that it is necessary to
get the Chinese Communists to join dis-
armament discussions, and therefore to
get them into the United Nations, has
been advanced over and over again in
the past 15 years. It has never prevailed,
as the votes on the Chinese representa-
tion show. The Americans have pointed
out repeatedly and convincingly that the
United Nations is an agency to maintain
peace, not a reformatory school, and the
more belligerent the Communists be-
come, the less chance they have, and
the less reason there is for them to be
admitted.
Why do you think that Indonesia is
moving closer to Peking?
Moving closer to the Chinese Com-
munists has a great deal of what may be
called blackmail value in Asia today. The
Chinese Communists are always making
threats to come to the support of coun-
tries that are making trouble in Asia.
Such threats may frighten some people
who do not want to be involved in a
direct conflict with the Chinese
Communists.
What are Communist China’s interests
in Indonesia?
The Chinese Communists are always
interested in pushing forward the
frontiers of the Communist empire,
wherever possible. They want to con-
vince nations and peoples that, in Mao
Tse-tung’s words, “the East wind is pre-
vailing over the West wind”.
Which way is it blowing?
It depends on what you do about it.
There are those who say that they have
too many problems in the domestic
sphere to occupy themselves, so that they
are not likely to plunge themselves into
foreign conflicts. This argument- is not
true, as may be seen by Communist
Chinese interventions in many parts of
the world in the past 15 years Korea,
Laos, Vietnam, even Cuba and the
Congo. They will go on pushing forward
until they are stopped.
Has that point been reached in South
Vietnam?
That depends on whether they are
stopped in Vietnam, or whether there
is the will to stop them there. If they
are not stopped in Vietnam, or if talks
or withdrawal and disengagement prevail,
then they’ll certainly move on, and the
next target seems to be Thailand, and
the jungle infiltration in Malaya may be
re-activated again. The picture is in some
ways like Hitler’s expansion.
Don’t you have to distinguish between
the conditions of social and national revo-
lution in Asia which assist Communism
arid the Nazi aggression?
Well, the answer to that question may
be found in China herself. The Chinese
Communists used to talk a great deal
about social revolution, emancipation of
the peasants, etc. Now it is clear that the
so-called social revolution on the China
mainland has done little good for the
people, the debacle of the Great Leap
Forward for instance, and what little that
it might have done has certainly caused
the Chinese people plenty the mass
liquidations, the rigid regimentation, the
years of starvation and under-nourish-
ment, etc. In contrast, in Taiwan (For-
mosa), in the past 15 years, thq people,
following the policies of an anti-Com-
munist government, have enjoyed a pros-
perity which is unprecedented in China's
long history agriculture is booming,
industries are growing, and social re-
forms, especially land reform, have been
carried out without bloodshed and in
freedom. Taiwan is now the second most
prosperous area in Asia, second only to
Japan. This ' proves conclusively that
Communism is not the answer to the
problems of the Asian countries, or of
any Under-developed countries. However,
the Communists will-gain recruits if they
succeed in persuading nations and
peoples that their advance simply cannot
be and will not be stopped. For sheer
self - preservation, some nations and
peoples will jump on the Communist
bandwaggon if only because they want
to be on the winning side. It's a decision
they have to take.


II
mm
■m
“To do business around the world I needed an
airline that flew everywhere. That’s why I tried
Pan Am. That’s why I’ve stuck with Pan Am.”
— says'Mr. Harold Porter, Packaging Exporter, of Melbourne
“I do a lot of flying ’round the world
and every time I take a trip on Pan
Am I learn something new. My
most recent trip took me through
the U.S., Britain, Scandinavia, and
the Far East. 1 learned that Pan
Am flies straight through to Europe,
not just from New York, but from
major U.S. cities like Detroit, Chi-
cago, Seattle and San Francisco
17 cities in all. That kind of con-
venience is invaluable to a business-
man in a hurry.”
Businessmen fly Pan Am every-
where. With good reason. Pan Am
has a wealth of experience with the
needs of businessmen. And it puts
that experience to work. In arrang-
ing reservations, making quick con-
nections, planning itineraries* and in
seeing to it that in-flight service
covers a businessman’s every re-
quirement. That’s why Pan Am has
won a worldwide reputation among
businessmen. Why not find out for
yourself? All you have to do is call
your Pan Am Travel Agent. Or call
us. You’ll have a good feeling know-
ing you’ve chosen the very best.
First on the Pacific . . .
First on the Atlantic . . .
First in Latin America . . .
First ’Round the World . .
mm
PA.IWAI
mm
You’re better off with Pan Am-
world’s most experienced airline
Sydney: Berger House, 82 Elizabeth Street. 28-2621
Melbourne: Southern Cross Hotel, 133 Exhibition Street. 63-9077


But who does the deciding?
Suppose you are a man in South Viet-
nam with a wife and three children. You
are told and you see with your own eyes
that the Vietcong are winning because
there are no people with enough guts
to stop them. You know that, if you
choose to fight them, you’ll eventually
lose, and you’ll be killed. Here you will
have to- make a decision. Should you
fight the Vietcong? Or should you join
them? You see the Americans coming to
help fight the Vietcong. But then you
hear that even with such help the Viet-
cong just cannot be defeated, and also
that the Americans will some day with-
draw from your country. I read
somewhere this statement: “Out of
self-preservation, people lean to the side
they think may win rather than the
side they hope to triumph”. This is an
astute analysis of the psychological
aspects of the Vietnamese situation. The
problem is for the Vietnamese, with their
allies, principally the Americans, to con-
vince you that their side, rather than that
of the Vietcong, will win. When that
conviction sinks in, you’ll make your
decision to join in the fight against the
Vietcong.
However, there are many voices in
favor of negotiations. The Communists
are past-masters in what is called “fight-
fight, talk-talk”. They fight when they
have the upper hand; they talk when they
are losing; they fight again when they
have recuperated from their losses. This
is a dangerous process, dangerous be-
cause in the end the Communists will
come up on top. The slogan “negotiation
through strength”, frequently used by the
Americans seems to show that they are
aware of the pitfalls.
How about your Government’s rela-
tions with Peking. Is basis for
the reports that a secret deal has been
made between the Communists and
Chiang Ching-kuo, Chiang Kai-shek’s
son, which would lead to a merger with
the mainland?
It’s utter nonsense. There is no such
secret deal. General Chiang Ching-kuo is
now Minister of National Defence of my
Government. He is just as determined as
his father, President Chiang Kai-shek, to
seek the liberation of the Chinese people
from the Communist yoke.
What about Formosa’s future? What
happens after Chiang Kai-shek?
Free China operates under a Constitu-
tion adopted in 1948 by the elected rep-
resentatives of the Chinese people, col-
lectively known as the National
Assembly. The Constitution provides for
legal procedures for the presidential suc-
cession election by the National
Assembly. It is constitutional government
along democratic lines. On the contrary,
the regime on the mainland is a cabal,
where political power is monopolised by
the veterans of the so-called Long March,
who are all dedicated Communists of the
Stalin type. In Free China, young men
came up from the ranks freely. The pre-
sent Foreign Minister is a former Second
Secretary in an Embassy, and he is less
than fifty years of age. Now, look at the
Chinese Communist regime. Chou En-lai
was for a long time Premier and Foreign
Minister, and when he gave up the latter
post, he yielded it to Chen Yi, who is a
military commander, and both Chou and
Chen are veterans of the Long March.
No new man has risen to the top, not
even to the second echelon, in the past
15 years.
Would you agree that even many anti-
communists at least start off on the as-
sumption that the Peking Government is
there to stay?
This is not a valid assumption, not by
any means. In a closed society such as
that on the China mainland, anything can
happen. The struggle for power is intense
and persistent. When Mao Tse-tung dies,
or even when his faculties are apparently
failing, there may be coups and counter-
coups between the aspirants for his
mantle. This is the way dictatorships
work. One thing, however, seems certain.
Those who vie for his power position
will be competing on the basis of who is
more in conformity with Mao's extrem-
ism— sort of who is holier than the
Pope. There isn’t a single moderate ele-
ment in sight. Even those who faintly
supported Khrushchev, such as Peng Teh-
huai, have long since been liquidated.
And the regime is by no means as stable
as it appears to be on the surface. There
have been many uprisings in the past.
The regime has also failed in indoctrina-
ting the younger generation. In 1962,
when hundreds of thousands of refugees
rushed across the Hong Kong border, we
found that the average age of the refu-
gees was 26. This shows that, with all the
refined techniques of brain-washing, the
youth is not with the Communists. What
part the youth who are still on the main-
land will play in a major political up-
heaval, such as Mao’s death, is a problem
of decisive significance.
Dr Chen, why doesn’t the Australian
Government have diplomatic representa-
tion in Formosa?
My Government most heartily wel-
comes Australian diplomatic representa-
tion in Taipei. But your Government
has its v own considerations —such as
Commonwealth priorities, special needs
of countries where large numbers of
migrants come from, etc. I understand
that Canberra is giving the question its
most sympathetic . consideration. You
have a Trade Commissioner who visits
Taipei periodically. There are no out-
standing issues between our two coun-
tries. We have been co-operating closely
in all spheres internationally.
Do you object to Australia’s growing
trade with Communist China?
I have not been instructed by my
Government to raise any objection. The
Communists, in our experiences, have
tried in many instances to use trade as
a lure or even as a blackmail for politi-
cal advantages. They have not done so
with Australia so .far. We are gratified
by the statement of Mr Paul Hasluck,
your Minister for External Affairs, that
you would not allow yourself to be black-
mailed by the Communists.
Anyone for Maphilindo ?
Bolstering the southern hack door
From OSCAR VILLADOLID in Manila
Filipinos are learning bitter lessons
from Malaysia's stubborn resistance
to the charm and ambitions of Indo-
nesia's President Sukarno. The Filipino
nation, which only two years ago eagerly
sought the kinship of the Indonesians
under the regional scheme of co-opera-
tion known as “Maphilindo” (Malaysia-
Phiiippines-Indonesia), is engaged now
in bolstering her defences at her southern
back door which faces Indonesia. The
country has suddenly realised that the
presence of some- 12,000 Indonesian
illegal entrants in the richest Philippine
island, Mindanao, and the uncontrolled
influx over the years of alien infiltrators,
including Chinese subversives, pose a
dangerous threat to national security.
The military build-up in this republic's
vulnerable southern frontier, home of
Filipino Muslims who share ethnic, cultu-
ral and religious ties with Indonesians,
underlines to most Filipinos the worsen-
ing state of the Indonesian-Malaysian
konfrontasi. It shows, too, the extent
tc which Philippine-Indonesian relations
have deteriorated. When “Maphilindp”
was mooted, Philippine officials eagerly
and anxiously awaited every visit of
President Sukarno and his legion of top
officials. Yet for some time now Sukarno
(who was hailed affectionately as Bung—
i.e.. brother) has not been invited. The
attack on the former Federation of
Malaya, a state the Philippines had long
recognised diplomatically, shattered
whatever illusions Fiiipino officials had
about Indonesia’s motivations. It con-
firmed the many nagging doubts that the
Sukarno Government had, in fact, ambi-
t'ons of reviving the lost imperial glory
of the Madjapahit and Shri-Visayan
empires of old.
Moreover, Indonesia's performance in


the last non-aligned conference of Afri-
can and Asian nations in Cairo opened
the eyes of Filipinos to the closeness of
the Indonesian hierarchy to Communist
China. The great eye - opener for
Filipinos came when the Indonesians
who had regaled Philippine officialdom
with tales of irreconcilable contempt for
the Chinese Communists and their ex-
pansionist-minded overlords at the time
“Maphilindo” was being discussed
threw in their lot with the North Viet-
nam Government and the Vietcong
against South Vietnam (a Philippine
medical team and a technical contingent
are in South Vietnam at the mo-
ment), formally recognised North Korea
and forged a close alliance with Com-
munist China.
Now, more than anything else, the
deterioration of Sukarno’s health, which
has triggered off intensive jockeyings for
political realignments in Indonesia, has
caused Filipinos to take a hard second
look at their relations and future with
Indonesia. The growing strength of Indo-
nesia's Parted Komunis Indonesia, a mili-
tary, well-knit organisation of 3,000,000
card-carrying members and some
12,000,000 sympathisers, has emphasised
to Filipinos the danger Indonesia poses
after the death of Sukarno. A Communist
Indonesia, with a standing army which is
the largest in the whole of South-East
Asia, would be a dagger pointed at the
heart of the Philippines.
It is within this context that Filipinos
are engaged in the heavy task of defence
spending and in reviewing their old and
new treaties with Indonesia. Some Con-
gressmen have even gone to the extent
of proposing that the United States be
asked to build new bases in Mindanao
island as protection against possible Indo-
nesian incursions. New plans are being
laid out to intensify aid programmes to
the long-neglected Muslim minorities in
the south. The effort is clearly geared
against any possibility that an Indonesian-
prodded Muslim group, in the fashion of
Sheikh A. M. Azahari’s Kalimantan
Vtara (North Borneo) rebel government,
may secede from the union in favor of
Indonesia.
Filipino officials watched very closely
the recent diplomatic efforts of Thailand
to effect a reconciliation between Indo-
nesia and Malaysia, but are no longer
surprised when such attempts break
down: They know that a negotiated settle-
ment of the Malaysia problem provides
the best approach to the sad state of
affairs in their region and the feeling re-
mains that Malaysia should attempt to
explore Indonesia’s sincerity and should,
up to the limits of her patience, try to
seek some form of accommodation. Pri-
vately, however, it is feared that Indo-
nesia will agree to no rappochement.
Tito’s Sinister Twist
The Moscow summer of Mihajlo Mihajlov
By FRANK OSVALD
When a Government spokesman
announced recently that Mihajlo
Mihajlov, a lecturer in the Sla-
vonic department of Zagreb University,
had been arrested, the reason given was
a violation of the Press code. The arrest
was a sequel to an embarrassing diplo-
matic incident arising out of the author’s
highly controversial account of a Soviet
trip last summer. When this was pub-
lished as a two-part article under the
title “Moscow Summer, 1964”, in the
January and February issues of the
literary monthly “Delo”, in Belgrade,
the author’s provocative views drew
immediate angry protests from the
Soviet Embassy. One diplomat com-
plained that “no American has written
so harshly about us yet”. The second
instalment was banned, though not in
time to prevent it from reaching sub-
scribers, and hence the outside world.
Under the relevant section of the cri-
minal code, Mihajlov is liable to not less
than three months’ imprisonment for
“bringing a foreign power into derision”.
Tn all this there seems hardlv the making
of a new Djilas-affair.
It was President Tito himself who
gave the case this more sinister twist.
In an important speech of February 11,
which was not released until a week
before the arrest, Tito demanded the
author’s head as an outstanding repre-
sentative of what he termed the “new
Djilasism”. According to Tito, the ideas
of Milovan Djilas, now serving (since
1962) an eight-year sentence for his book
“Conversations with Stalin”, had reap-
peared in a new and particularly danger-
ous form, and were being pushed forward
by the Press and even by Communists,
Mihajlov’s “reactionary slander”, said
Tito, must be prosecuted; he had slander-
ed the October Revolution and even
attempted to “justify the Hitlerite ex-
termination camps”. Tito’s attack was
the more ominous for being addressed
to a conference of State prosecutors,
Immediate action should have been
taken, according to Tito, against the
magazine, the author, and the editor
(who has since resigned and may also
-be prosecuted) responsible for the dis-
semination of these “deformed ideas”,
Mihajlov belongs to the younger
generation of Yugoslav intellectuals and
W as a lecturer on Russian literature at
one of the country’s newest academic
institutions, the Faculty of Philosophy
(Arts) at Zadar, established in 1958 as
an extension of Zagreb University.
Mihajlov’s first contribution to “Delo”
appeared as recently as June, 1964. It is
an essay, scholarly—-but entirely uncon-
troversial, on the Soviet literary periodi-
cal “Novy Mir”, the organ of the in-
tellectual “new wave”, and its mission


rrm
Btvi
Introducing Benson & Hedges
Special Smoking Mixture
... a new classic among the
world’s great pipe tobaccos.
Modestly priced at 7/6 a tin,
it is the right tobacco
when only the best will do.
And isn’t that all the time?
Jtr-
m.
...
lllliSi
I
mmmm
SKrSSKH
f
2 ./
8H768.2.65
in the regeneration of socialist culture.
Nothing in this article could be regarded
as subversive, either in Moscow or Bel-
grade. Its significance lies in the fact
that it was written before Mihajlov had
visited the Soviet Union. “Moscow
Summer, 1964”, the outcome of Mihaj-
lov’s first and so far only Soviet trip,
shows a substantially different picture.
Not that the author’s ideas or opinions
have changed; he approaches the Russian
scene with the same passionate concern
for progress and the liberal new wave.
The greater part of Mihajlov’s essay is,
in fact, unpolemical—the author sketch-
es brief pen-portaits of most of the out-
standing literary figures and his report
contains a wealth of unfamiliar detail.
The classless myth
A note of wonder and unreality is
struck in Mihajlov’s opening words:
“The very first thing: nothing is what one
would expect from a reading of the
Soviet, or even the Western Press . . .”
The Metro, despite all the jokes about it,
functions with clockwork precision; slot
machines abound, information stations
are easily available and reliable. Mos-
cow is a modern metropolis—but many
of its features show Communist society
in a curious light. Among the most im-
mediately striking is the prevalence of
drunkards and the “sobriety stations”,
vytrezvitelj, found in every district.
There is a craving for everything foreign
—“even during the daytime, sober men
approach one and ask for cigarettes”—
and the foreigner gets preferential treat-
ment everywhere. In contrast to this,
the author is struck by the “indescrib-
ably brutal” form of intercourse between
the Russians themselves. “In the even-
ings, away from the city centre, it is
dangerous to go out, despite the ever-
present druzhiniky , the people’s mili-
tia . . ”
The classless society is very much a
myth. Mihajlov describes the Gorki
Park of Culture as “bread and circuses”
for the masses—“the upper classes have
different means of amusing themselves,
on their dachas outside Moscow . . .”
Mihajlov’s stay in Moscow imbued him
with a new pride in his own country,
whose freedom and willingness to experi-
ment forms an ideal for many Russians.
And he is proud to note that “Yugoslav
influence in Russia is much more
striking than the Soviet presence back
at home”. The will to experiment and
to break through the official barriers
of conformism is present. Much of it,
however, can find expression only on a
semi-private, almost conspiratorial plane.
Even an internationally celebrated
writer like Vladimir Dudintsev, author of
“Not By Bread Alone”, lives in near-
poverty, because his work is published
only in absurdly small editions.


is this a single lens reflex?
/
OLYMPUS-PEN |g
22
//
%
imm niniian
56
V
no bulge!
no bulk!
yes!
it’s the revolutionary
Olympus Pen |f
The most significant step forward in the world of serious
photography since the first 35mm camera itself! A full-blooded
professional camera of highest mechanical and optical quality, com-
presses all the features of the conventional SLR into a spectacularly
compact and lightweight precision camera. Single frame image size
cuts down the bulk . . . totally new porro prism eliminates the bulge.
Brilliant viewfinder with high corner-to-corner contrast, instant return
mirror that swings sideways at twice the speed, complete choice of fully
automatic interchangeable lenses . . . including zoom.
More Pen-F exclusives include the solid titanium high-speed rotary
shutter that ends distortion of moving objects, synchronizes with bulbs,
or electronic flash at all speeds to 1/500. Non-spinning
shutter dial sets in either direction, couples to
accessory CdS meter.
Pen-F size is ideal for easy carrying, fast and steady
handling, unobtrusive shooting. Lenses are half the
size, a third the weight of. conventional 35mm SLR
lenses. Focusing is faster, more precise . . . and as
close as 14". Pen bayonet mount makes lens inter-
change fast, secure. Ask for FREE copy of indepen-
dent test report and price list.
Price with fl.B 38mm lens and case £64.10.0
Interchangeable lenses for Pen-F include 25mm f 4
wide angle, 100 mm f 3.5 telephoto and 50-90 mm f 3.5
zoom. Full range of macro and micro accessories.
saamiL.1 1
(450/93/65
VINSON FOR VALUE PRODUCTS
“Dudintsev showed me a typed copy of
his book, sent to him from the provinces.
This must be the only important novel of
the twentieth century that still circulates
in typescript . .
The typewriter and the tape-recorder,
says Mihajlov, are the most important
instruments for the dissemination of cul-
ture in the USSR. Genuine avant-garde
ideas, those of the “angry men, the her-
mits, heretics, dreamers, subversives,
sceptics . . lead an underground
existence. As the “most celebrated man
in the USSR”, the author presents the
poet and chansonnier Bulat Okudzhava,
of whom hardly anyone outside Russia
has ever heard. Okudzhava's case is
cited by the author as an example of the
ambiguity of official policy—he is by
no means banned, but gives regular con-
certs which attract audiences of several
thousands. Yet his songs are never
broadcast or recorded. The main rea-
son is undoubtedly the songs themselves,
treating the loneliness of the great cities,
poverty, drunkenness, and prostitution,
with traditional wry Russian humor,
scepticism and a notable lack of patrio-
tic pathos. “The heroes of these songs,”
notes Mihajlov, “could all echo the
words of the Good Soldier Schweik in
Brecht's play, ‘Schweik in the Second
World War’, whose answer to the
speeches about the ‘great historical epoch
in which we live’, is: ‘I piss on the great
epoch’.”
Okudzhava is part of what Mihajlov
regards as the most important phenome-
non in contemporary Soviet culture: the
emergence of a genuine folk art, which
owes nothing to ideology, but every-
thing to traditional Russian values. Its
main theme is the monstrous shadow that
still overhangs Soviet society: the legacy
of the Stalin camps. In the most sen-
sational arid widely quoted passage in his
essay, Mihajlov records the prevailing
opinion among Russians that between
eight and ten millioh people were de-
ported to these camps, and the official
failure to deal with the subject: “It is
understandable that the Soviet Press
mentions fascism and the Nazi camps
less and less, and avoids comparing them
with Stalin’s . . . The first ‘death camps’
were not in fact created by the Germans,
but by the Soviets. The first of these
camps, Holmogor near Archangelsk,
started in 1921; it was entirely devoted
to the task of physical extermination . . .
Even in regard to genocide Hitler was
not the first. Before the Second World
War, a number of small nations . . . were
deported to Northern Siberia, where they
perished like flies . .
But the author is not primarily con-
cerned with historical justice; the chapter
entitled “Camp Folklore” deals rather
with his discovery of a cultural pheno-
menon: “However, the main thing that
moved me was the songs themselves.


Never had I supposed that such things
existed in the Soviet Union. There were
songs of all kinds by prisoners, humor-
ous, desperate and cynical. But all of
them were moving and great. Through
them spoke Russia, the Russia which we
know through the works of Tolstoy and
Dostoevsky; real popular tunes . . . raw,
sometimes naive, always deep, spon-
taneously melodious —and tragic . .
This radical debunking did not find favor
with all the author’s Soviet contacts. Ilya
Ehrenburg, for instance, after several
hours’ angry debate, called him an “in-
verted fanatic”. But he found his views
confirmed among students and staff at
Moscow University. And it is from a
lecturer at the University that Mihajlov
heard the verse from Mayakovsky which
might serve as his motto:
From the depth' of time
Another, a Third Revolution rises —
The revolution of the spirit.
It is Mihajlov's confidence about the
inevitability of this Third Revolution
that constitutes his “anti-Soviet crime”
and provides a basis for the charge of
“Djilasism”. Djilas’ offence in his
“Conversations with Stalin” was not the
exposure of Stalin so much as the impli-
cation that Khrushchev was part of the
same tradition. Mihajlov, too, stresses
the essential continuity of Soviet dic-
tatorship from Lenin onwards and re-
cords the younger generation’s demand
for a radical break. This report on Soviet
culture is in many ways unique, since
the author combined an unusual wealth
of knowledge with an openness of mind
only rarely found among either foreign
or Communist observers. Mihajlov’s
essay is therefore also a remarkable re-
flection of the Yugoslav intellectual cli-
mate.
This makes his persecution and arrest
all the more puzzling. It is, moreover,
not an isolated instance of its kind,
though the first since Djilas to attract
international attention. The explanation
has often been sought in the national con-
flicts of Yugoslavia, since it is especially
the Slovian and Croat Press and writers
who strive for liberalisation, while the
(Serbian) leadership in Belgrade, domi-
nating the Party organisation and secur-
ity system, stands for centralism and stiff
control. The real conflict, however,
probably goes deeper than this. “Yugo-
slavism”, i.e., Serbian domination, was
specifically abjured by President Tito at
the recent Bth Party Congress. Since
the adoption of the new Constitution in
1963, moreover, the Yugoslav Party has
surrendered some of its power. Thus
Yugoslavia is the only Communist
country with a Constitutional Court that
has ruled an enacted law invalid; and
the Federal Assembly (parliament) re-
cently overruled the national economic
plan on the insistence of the Trade
Unions. In the current Yugoslav elec-
tion campaign, there are three times as
many candidates as vacant seats.
It is this diffusion of power, which
apparently makes the regime fear the
heretic intellectuals. President Tito, in
his speech to the prosecutors, criticised
the unwillingness of the courts to use
their powers of censorship and hinted
at the “political pressures” to which they
were exposed. These pressures are likely
to continue, despite the drastic action
against Mihajlov. The student paper
“Tribuna” continues to attack the estab-
lishment despite repeated warnings, and
another Zagreb journal, “Praxis”, has
shown itself unintimidated even by the
fate of “Delo' v . Mihajlov himself tried
to fight back by appealing to public
opinion. In an open letter, sent to 290
Yugoslav papers, Mihajlov protested
against the charges of anti-Communism
made against him. “The trouble is not
the facts I have exposed . . . but that I
have dared to think with my own head
and look with my own eyes without
asking permission . . . Any strengthen-
ing of Stalinism also helps to strengthen
neo-Nazism . . .” Mihajlov’s open letter
has not been printed; it has been stated,
however, that its contents may cause
additional charges to be raised against
him.
A Pendulum Swings
Something like the CND
From GODFREY HODGSON in Washington
President Johnson faces his most
important test so far in Congress
over three Bills —on Education,
on Medicare, and on Voting Rights.
The Education Bill, if passed, will pro-
vide Federal funds for both public and
Roman Catholic elementary schools for
the first time in American history. Like
the other two Bills, it marks an intensely
controversial step by the Federal Gov-
ernment into new territory.
Ironically, at the very moment when
he is sending up to Congress—with every
hope of success a programme of
domestic legislation that is more radical
than anything America has seen since
the early days of the New Deal, Mr
Johnson finds himself outflanked and
attacked on the Left. One says the
“Left” for want of a better word. The
new wave of political militancy which
has appeared with rather startling sud-
denness since Mr Johnson was re-
elected has nothing whatever to do with
Socialism, and little to say on traditional
economic issues. Its exponents talk
vaguely of “humanism”. It is perhaps
better described as a mood of ethical
radicalism.
It all started with the Negro question
and the Civil Rights movement. This
has stirred the previously conservative
churches in America more deeply than
perhaps even their leaders realise. The
universities are on fire with it. There is
something utterly new about Methodist
bishops and Roman Catholic nuns,
Harvard law students and farm-boys in
Mid-Western State universities demon-
strating in the streets and marching in
Washington and Selma to demand
“freedom now” for Negroes. What is
more, there are now signs that the Civil
Rights fervor is spelling over to other
causes. Mario Savio, the ablest leader
to emerge from the student revolt in
California, has been down in Selma
making speeches about civil rights.
Walter Reuther, of the United Auto-
mobile Workers, has been marching
there, too. And in many cities students
and clergymen who first learned the
techniques of political action in the
Civil Rights movement are beginning to
organise marches and sign petitions on
other issues, from academic freedom to
the war in Vietnam.
The new wave of protest has not yet
broken on Capitol Hill. It has not yet
acquired political “muscle” to an extent
that politicians would have to respect.
It may be that it never will. Shrewd
and sympathetic judges in Congress and
around Washington suspect that its
influence may be like that of the Cam-
paign for Nuclear Disarmament in
Britain: to make sure that for the first
time for many years here all the political
pressure is not from the Right. On the
other hand, there may be more to it than
that. It may be that we are watching
a process rather like -the one which
happened some five years ago on the
far Right, when different sections of
Right-wing opinion who had been play-
ing their own tunes —big business, the
segregationists, the anti-Communist fana-
tics—came together in one big orchestra.
It may be that a new radical coalition
is emerging, based on the Negroes,
labor, the churches, the old and the
young.
More and more Americans live in big
cities. The shibboleths of the Federal-
State division of powers are increasingly
irrelevant and frustrating to them. The
new mood in the universities is adding a
million new voters to the electorate each
year who have been touched by im-
patience with the status quo. (ofns)


WHY DID THE FRENCH
AWARD ORLANDO
BAROSSA RIESLING
A GOLD MEDAL?
k
1 11
X
o
CD
CJ
o
o
BECAUSE
lIS
SUPERB!
If you want to be ab-
solutely sure that the
white wine you order
for your own and your
guests’ enjoyment is
truly outstanding, insist
on 1963 Orlando
Barossa Riesling.
This great wine this
year has been awarded
a Gold Medal at Mont-
pellier, world famous
centre for wine study
and research, at the
only wine, show in
France open to outside
competition.
You will delight in the
magnificent Riesling
bouquet, superb fresh-
ness and crisp finish of
this award winning
Riesling which is now
sold on every Continent
in the world.
Barossa Riesling is vin-
taged and bottled by
G. GRAMP & SONS
PTY. LTD. in South
Australia’s famous
Barossa Valley.
10805
ON THE MARGIN
Keeping up with the Schmidts
T never caught up with the German
-*• language in my youth. At school
French was considered OK, but if you
wanted to learn German you were
suspected of being a mad genius type.
Very few people did.
Then in the 1930 s I was put off the
German language by the Germans them-
selves. One who got on my nerves par-
ticularly was the Leader of German
Womanhood, Reichsfrauenfuehrerin Ger-
trud Scholtz-Klink. I never laid eyes on
Reichsfrauenfuehrerin Scholtz-Klink, but
I had a vivid mental picture of her. She
was a big woman with blonde, beer-
soaked plaits, wearing a Viking helmet
and bellowing airs from Wagner.
I did pick up a few student-showing-
off German words like weltschmerz,
which I understood to mean
world-pain. It seemed as
good a'word as any to des-
cribe the mood of a young
man in the depression who
was worried about girls.
Over the years I had vari-
ous indirect contacts with
Germany. I came to like
Brahms, helped to drop
bombs on Germans, was
shot at by them (they mis-
sed), and bought a Ger-
man camera. For a while in
New York I used to eat brat-
wurst and sauerkraut at a restaurant run
by a retired German wrestler named
Martin Ludecke who had performed at
the Melbourne Stadium. But I still
didn't know German.
So 1 was able to bring an almost vir-
ginal mind, linguistically speaking, to the
task when I learned Basic German last
week. 1 learned it from a book called
German Through Pictures, which dis-
plays drawings of such things as mein
Kopf and ein Hund (but not a Schwein-
hund). It tells of the activities of little
Anna and Wilhelm, who are ein Mad-
chen und ein Junge. Also Herr Schmidt,
who goes to Munich in a Zug (train),
and Frau Schmidt, who puts some cheese
auf dem Tisch (on the table).
German Through Pictures gave me
some agreeable surprises. I learned, for
example, that a Knopf was a button.
The American publisher Alfred Knopf,
who sounds so dignified, has really been
plain Alf Button all the time. Schwarz
means black, and a Kopf is a head. So
the glamorous songbird Elizabeth
Schwarzkopf turns out to be none other
than Betty Blackhead. My own first
name, Ross, means a horse. I suppose
I could issue an appeal to German
Das ist mein Kopf.
migrants: “Read Ross Campbell for
horse sense.”
While exploring the language I found
that there are two common kinds of
words in German —the bossy words and
the funny words.
The bossy words are those you con-
nect with U-boat commanders, ski-
instructors, and such. They are barked
out frequently in war films — Achtung!
Unter Periskop! Jawohl, Herr Leut-
nant! There is something very satisfying
about the words sclilag (hit) and schlecht
(bad). Just saying them makes you feel
like a Gestapo man in a late movie.
Allied to the bossy words are the out-
doorsy words, which German is very
good at. I like the mysterious sound of
Schnee (snow), and the cold, grim names
for mountains—the Eiger-
wand (ogrewall), and the
Weisshorn'(white horn).
But the stern mood
created by the bossy words
keeps getting upset by the
funny words. The German
language wobbles continu-
ally between Gotterdam-
merung and Struwwelpeter.
Take the word for an
angle— Winkel. It tends to
make geometry ridiculous.
Is an expert on geometry a
Winkeldoktor? Likewise the
word for taste, Geschmack, is hard to
associate with gracious living. The basic
German for “She has good taste” is “Ste
hat der gut Geschmack”. It sounds more
like what happens to a shapely waitress in
a beerhall.
Another funny word is Strumpf (stock-
ing). It is quite devoid of feminine ele-
gance. One can imagine Reichsfrauen-
fue&rerin Scholtz-Klink pulling on her
Strumpf.
A doll is eine Puppe (pronounced
pooper). As basic German homework
I translated: “I’m going to dance with the
dolly with the hole in her stocking”. It
came out: “Ich werde mit die Puppe mit
das Loch in ihr Strumpf tanzen”. This
somehow takes the fun out of it.
While basic German is better than
none, it does not get one very far. I
might be able to read a book in basic
German, but there aren't any.
However, I intend to stick at it, expres-
sing what thoughts I Gan in its limited
range.
Ich liebe der bratwurst und sauer-
kraut. Der geschmack ist gut. Ich liebe
nicht Reichsfrauenfuehrerin Scholtz-
Klink. Sie ist eine blutig fuhl. Auf
wiedersehen. Unter periskop!
ROSS CAMPBELL


Homage to Godfrey Miller
“As we were saying ...”
Godfrey Clive Miller was born on
August 20, 1893, in Wellington,
New Zealand, and died in Sydney
on May 12, 1964. He may have been
that almost non-existent thing, a legend
in his own lifetime.
A memorial exhibition of Miller paint-
ings has just finished at the Darlinghurst
Galleries. The 37 paintings shown were
the largest number of his pictures ever
seen together.
Towards the end of the exhibition a
“Homage to Godfrey Miller” was
arranged, with tributes from five people.
This is the sort of affair the thought of
which might make your heart sink. It
sounds a wonderful excuse for a large
number of interminably boring speeches,
of which Australians are so fond. In
fact, it was a very simple, quite touching
event.
Artist and art-teacher David Strachan
was perhaps Godfrey Miller’s oldest
acquaintance among artists in Sydney.
Mr Strachan: “When we were both in
Sydney I would go and see him. We
would talk for a while, then I would
leave. I might see him three months later
and he would begin ‘As we were saying’
and we would take up the same conversa-
tion again. As I feel that I never think
about what I am saying I found this very
disconcerting.
“I remember another time that I was
with Godfrey in Paris. I think this
story illustrates his way of thinking. We
took some photographs of his work to
a dealer. The dealer finally said, ‘Mr
Miller, these paintings please me very
much. We would like to show some of
your paintings. How many have you?’
Godfrey thought for a while. Then he
said, ‘I think I have five.’ You can
imagine Godfrey’s remarks as we walked
down the street afterwards. He could
not understand how a dealer could say
he was interested in his paintings and
then not be interested in five of them.”
Mr John Henshaw, painter, critic and
art-teacher, shared with Mr Strachan the
job of cataloguing Mr Miller’s paintings
after the artist’s death. Mr Henshaw
edited the book, “Forty Drawings by
Godfrey Miller”, published by Edwards
and Shaw in 1962.
Mr Henshaw: “One incident concern-
ing Godfrey Miller happened about 12
years ago. One day he asked me if I
would like to look at some of his paint-
ings. Of course, I would. He was then
living in a sort of coachhouse at the back
of an old terrace in Young Street. I
went there and he brought out about a
dozen paintings and showed them to me.
The following day at the Julian Ashton
art school, where I was then studying,
I said to some of the students, ‘There is
this fantastic painter out at Paddington.
You should see some of his paintings.’
Then, apparently, later that day about a
dozen students descended on Godfrey
and demanded to see his paintings. He
showed them some, but he didn’t speak
to me for about 12 months afterwards.
Apparently, he was furious. He had
never been so outraged in his life.
Mr Douglas Dundas, who has just
retired as head of the National Art
School, East Sydney, was instrumental in
persuading Mr Miller to join the staff
of the school. Mr Miller taught part-time
there for 19 years.
Mr Dundas: “In his own lifetime God-
frey Miller was referred to as the legend-
ary Godfrey Miller. He has been re-
ferred to as an eccentric. Perhaps he
was an eccentric in the sense that he
never expressed a conventional idea. He
always brought his own point of view
to bear. This may have been because
his comparative isolation and loneliness
forced him to look inwards a good deal.
It was not just introspection. Godfrey
had a wide interest in all living things.”
Mr Lewis Miller, brother of Mr God-
frey Miller, spoke of a lifetime together
which was “very exciting and varied”.
Mr Miller: “When Godfrey came back
from the war he had changed, quite a
lot. He was much quieter and was
always reading, mostly Goethe. The
sculpture and painting which came into
his life then came, I think, as a con-
sequence of what he saw and experi-
enced on Gallipoli.
“There is one little incident about
Godfrey which I think I might tell. In
1960 he went to London to see the
Picasso exhibition. It was a short trip,
a little more than a week, but Godfrey
went to the exhibition every day from
the moment it opened until it shut. One
day he took me with him which was
quite a privilege for me. By then he
was studying the blue period and eventu-
ally concentrated on about three pictures.
He spent hours and hours looking at
these three pictures.
“Then he began to explain Picasso's
profile technique to me, who was quite
ignorant about it all. Soon I noticed
that a few people had come up behind
us and were listening to what he was
saying. Then a few more people came
up and eventually a small crowd
gathered. Godfrey noticed them then,
and he stamped off angrily and left the
gallery.”
Mr John Kaplan, former librarian of
the National Art School, claimed that
he was the only “outsider” among the
speakers as he was just an “onlooker,
neither artist nor writer nor a member of
the family”.
Mr Kaplan: “I served Godfrey Miller
as the cook served Moliere. He tried
things out on me. I remember the
second time I got a royal command to
go to Young Street. And, believe me,
they were royal commands.
“I was late, which was not the thing
to do at all. I was shown a picture.
There was just a single light bulb so I
peered at the picture as best I could.
‘What do you think of it?’ Godfrey
asked. ‘I don't know,’ I said, ‘but it
gives me a sort of religious feeling.’ I
must have said the right thing. After
that Godfrey used me as a sort of touch-
stone.
“However, what I feel is that much
too much has been said about Godfrey
Miller, touching on matters artistic.
There should be less talking and more
looking. In the case of Godfrey Miller,
it is his work which is important.”
Mr John Thompson, poet and broad-
caster, said he was trying to compile the
sort of biography of Godfrey Miller
which he had already done with other
people. This was a collection of anec-
dotes about them and incidents from
their lives.
Mr Thompson: “With Godfrey Miller
I find so far there are many interesting
stories, some very amusing ones but no
tragic ones.
“As John Kaplan said, the thing to
do is to study Godfrey Miller’s pictures.
But another thing is hi's letters. Godfrey
wrote to a lot of people. His letters
have the same quality as the letters of
William Blake. He seemed to me to
have the same quality of indignation as
Blake. One could imagine him taking
someone, of whose opinions he disap-
proved, by the seat of his pants and
hurrying him to the corner of the street.
I don’t know that he ever did such a
thing, but you could imagine that if
he were annoyed he would.
“There is a story of Godfrey Miller
that was told to me by someone else.
A student in one of his classes was dis-
turbed by a dripping tap and went across
the room and turned it off. Miller
asked, ‘Why did you do that?’ ‘Because
it disturbed me,’ she said. ‘That’s
funny,’ he said, ‘I sometimes leave a tap
dripping for company’.” P.R.


GODFREY MILLER
BLUE LANDSCAPE. Oil on canvas 26 in. x 40 in. From the collection of Colonel Aubrey Gibson. Blocks by courtesy of "Art and Australia.”
FIGURE IN RED. Oil on canvas 24¼ in. x 39¼ in. From the National Gallery of South Australia. Blocks by courtesy of Griffin Press.




r #"
•1 a
... *• t* V
£ . ;,. f
i-
mam
JSSSir., .2wSO
w*
x - H
*
, -y* X
% v^-
. •% l\
Sv'
sr>
v, \.
•/ft*
\ V
ST'S
ft?
M
- -..
NEW FALCON—Looks grea
; . \
*s #
w
•r *
*• ■'V
as
\
r:\
**.• ■’ * — | •* -f t. p>
■V -
% * •**
‘ t•■ '
F /• >
/
X
Nfe
-*£
iK’ : fJc ; ' 's ‘ <*
lr*yf
. ; SgBSS
~..., ... * ~ ■
s
I
New styling, new interiors, new comfort, new engineering features.
the most complete value ever offered by Ford!
Never before a Falcon like this. Never before,
so much car for your money.
Bold new styling, new rugged body con-
struction, more room inside, greater per-
formance, more comfort and luxury these
are the features that distinguish the new
1965 Falcon.
Behind the wheel you’ll revel in the way the
Falcon clings to the road, steers effortlessly
with precision, delivers your power imme-
diately, handles the roughest going with ease.
Beneath the new Falcon is tremendously
increased strength and solidity. “Torque-
boxes” massive chassis-type frames
are welded the entire length of the
under the passenger compartment.
Inside, there’s a handsome new instrumer.
panel, a front seat 2 inches wider for ex
comfort, durable vinyl upholstery.
The Falcon ride is truly amazing. Ni
spring rates and shock absorbers, and exti
dy insulation, give you the smoothest,
detest ride of any car at Falcon’s price.
lS for performance, you get that in greater
11 Insure, too, from each of Falcon’s 3 engines,
ds all-new “Fordomatic 3S” 3-speed
tomatic transmission the most respon-
and economical automatic of all. Now.
Ne' u
[i uve
add to all this Falcon’s unequalled running
economy and you’ll agree It's The Best
Year To Go Ford! See all 8 new Falcons
at your Ford Dealer’s, now. From £lO7O ,
tax paid.
‘‘Fordomatic 3S” 3-speed automatic transmission
is optional at moderate extra cost.
Bestyearyet
to go FORD!
FORD OF AUSTRALIA


m°UJILLMm'S COCKTAILS
It’s easy to welcome friends often, when you discover ~ ~
the wonderful ways you can make long cool drinks x
with McWilliam’s Cocktails. There are six flavours from which
you can choose and you mix long drinks as easily as
this; 1 l /z oz. Cocktail; fill tall glass with cold lemonade or
ginger ale. If desired you can embellish with ice and a
slice of lemon or cucumber. Serve ice col(^
I
X
v
V
a
V'
n
t
»'.
%
K
m
m
m
*5l .
*%
MR
«■
m
WJ
i V
e?*?
if
•kf
v.?i
rW
*•
.- ;v
fcV v«*.
SIX PALATE PLEASING FLAVOURS TO CHOOSE FROM:
Cherry, Banana, Apricot, Manhattan, Tropical Fruit, Martini.


Ate
tl
IP
c
n
NEW ISSUE FROM . . .
CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
UNSECURED
NOTES
7’/2% 6-10 YEARS
71/4% 4-5 YEARS
7 % 3 YEARS
6V2% 2 YEARS
5 1 /2% 12 MONTHS
51/4% 6 MONTHS
5 % 3 MONTHS
DEBENTURE
STOCK
71/4% 6-10 YEARS
7 % 5 YEARS
7 % 4-5 YEARS
6V2% 3 YEARS
6 % 2 YEARS
51/4% 12 MONTHS
43/4% 6 MONTHS
41/2% 3 MONTHS
Applications. will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to in and attached
to a printed copy of the Prospectus which is
now available from any Member of a recognised
Stock Exchange and all Branches of .. .
THE NATIONAL BANK
and CUSTOM CREDIT
OR THE UNDERWRITERS:
Ord Minett, T. J. Thompson & Partners, Members of The
Sydney Stock Exchange Limited: 13-15 O’Connell St.,
Sydney
INTEREST
UP TO
0
1
r°
2
FOR
6YEARS
CC1.53.35
Letters to the Editor
The TV Congress
SIR. —Regarding the National TV Con-
gress as reported by Mr Sam Lipski
(8., March 27), your readers may
be interested to know that lecturers
other than Mr R. J. M. Newton, QC,
made favorable comments about some
aspects of Australian television, namely
the Rev. Gordon Powell in his talk,
“Religious Television”, and Professor
Derek Broadbent, of the University of
New South Wales, when speaking about
“Educational Television”. Your readers
may also be interested to know, in regard
to the establishment of a National TV
Committee, that not all those present
were unanimous about some of the
clauses under which this committee
would operate. Amendments were pro-
posed by several delegates, among them
myself.
My four proposed amendments sug-
gested that the first members of the com-
mittee should not have the power to
co-opt other members, that the term of
office of the first committee members
should be limited to 12 months, that
there should be a greater representation
of women on the National TV Com-
mittee, and finally that five particular
women .(whose names I mentioned when
speaking to the congress) should be on
the -committee. I later withdrew my
proposed amendment about the term of
office of the first members of the com-
mittee. I was, however, adamant about
the other three amendments, being con-
cerned that delegates were being pres-
sured to accept the congress steering
committee’s proposals with too little
time for proper consideration.
These were of course eventually reject-
ed by the majority of delegates.
Australian television must surely be con-
cerned with Australian films and no film
critic was elected, although one of my
nominees is a film critic, seriously con-
cerned about the- future of Australian
films.
LAN KLAVA
Director, Sydney Film Festival.
NG Race Relations
SIR. — Your February 27 Bulletin has
just arrived at this isolated outstation in
Papua. I regret that this letter will reach
you so long after J. H. Wootten’s article,
“The World’s Most Generous Colonisers”.
I believe Wootten has not emphasised
enough the extremely poor relations be-
tween the native and expatriate popula-
tions. I write after only six years’ ex-
perience in the Territory, but with con-
cern and after a keen study of the prob-
lem. I have discussed your article with
two of the leading native teachers on my
staff, with village people and with senior
students but I believe that the picture I
shall present is indicative of the general
feeling in the Territory despite the nar-
row field of enquiry.
It is easy for expatriate settlers to de-
velop a sense of security here. The
salaries are comparatively huge, promo-
tion opportunities are endless, especially
to those with any ability, accommodation
is good, few find the climate oppressive,
there is the feeling of racial superiority
which exists subconsciously, if not ad-
mitted consciously, and which reinforces
an ego usually deflated, at the time of
leaving the tremendously competitive (by
comparison) Australian circumstances.
And there is the subservience of the
native. His obedience is taken for
granted, as also it is taken for granted
that a native will give his/her seat up for
a European—-male or female. My
friend, lamo Noq, a schoolteacher of
fairly long experience and a gentleman,
eloquently appeals that natives be less
ignored, as they are almost always, in
travel, in accommodation, in convenien-
ces provided, and in places of amusement.
I think that this is the crux. It is all
very well to be high-sounding, to be
idealistic, about improving race relations.
What is needed is not a paternalistic
relationship, not only more anti-discri-
minatory legislation, but friendships be-
tween individuals based on mutual
respect, understanding and tolerance. Is
this happening? I would answer almost
unreservedly—NO. It is true that there
appears to be little surface resentment,
that Europeans can walk around unmo-
lested in a crowd, that there is a slowly
increasing “number of natives who can
count on real European friendship”. But
there is resentment. You won't find it
if you don’t really search for it (it only
hurts if you do, so most people don’t).
Finally, and here I reiterate, there is not
enough friendship, and there is no real
“Christ-like love” of any balancing pro-
portion. God help this country if this
doesn't rapidly occur. lam pessimistic.
KEITH MCRAE
Bwagaoia ( TPNG ).
Bushfires
SlR.—The article “Fourteen Dead” (8.,
March 20) says: “It may be, of course,
that giant fires are just unquenchable.”
There is no “may be” about this state-
ment. Under ‘,‘blow-up” conditions, with
high temperature, strong winds and low
humidity, a bushfire will burn as long
as there is fuel to sustain it. Manpower
and equipment, which effectively sup-
presses smaller fires, is powerless to stop
a conflagration. The facts which must
be squarely faced are that we will always
have fires and that some of these will
occur in situations and conditions that
make suppression impossible.
There are three avenues to pursue in
reducing Australia’s bushfire problem
prevention, protection and suppression.
While publicity and education may lessen
the number of fires, we can never hope
to eliminate them all. While men and


CLAUDE
NEON
(Established 1930)
Association of Great Names Series
i i
NEON ARCHITECTURAL SIGN, T & G BUILDING, PERTH, W.A.
For the look of leadership'
SIGNS AND LIGHTING
ON THE
LEASE-MAINTENANCE PLAN
Defails without cost or obligation
CLAUDE NEON LTD.
Sydney: 67-0488
Melbourne: 37-2257
Brisbane: 68-2481
Adelaide: 53-2291
Perth: 86-2461
Hobart: 3-3994
ALSO AT LAUNCESTON, NEWCASTLE, TOWNSVILLE AND WAGGA
SALES & SERVICE THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
machines save an inestimable amount of
valuable property, they will never be
able to suppress a full scale conflagration.
Fire protection offers hope where the
other aspects fail. Houses still stand,
stock have survived and fences still
serve on properties where careful plan-
ning has thwarted the worst efforts of
fire on the rampage. Fire protection has
succeeded on only a small percentage
of properties, because only a small per-
centage of property owners have
adequate protection. As that percentage
increases, so will our bushfire losses
decrease.
N. L. STEVENS
Secretary,
Bushfire Research Committee of SA
Adelaide (SA).
Doctors and Disease
SIR. There seemed little basic com-
monsense in the report in National Note-
book (8., March 20) concerning the
reaction to an alleged venereal disease
outbreak in Broken Hill. Rather than
condemn medical men who possibly mis-
judged the situation, one might as easily
condemn the Press. The Press could
have sought medical opinion and printed
a factual explanation concerning trans-
mission of venereal disease, if, as the
article implies, this was needed. The
local journalist should have convinced
his editors of the need to print facts.
If the Press allowed a veto on a state-
ment issued by the Director of Public
Health in N.S.W., when the Press felt it
ought to be published, they were lacking
in their responsibility to overcome the
ignorance you state caused the trouble.
To keep the correct sense of values your
notebook should have condemned law-
lessness, hysteria and a Press which
failed in its duty to inform and lead
the community. ,
A. S. WOOD, FRCS, FRACS
Melbourne (Vic.).
Wheat for India
SIR.—It was with interest that I read
Plain English, “Living on Borrowed
Time”, and Forum, “Charity is not
Enough”, by Sibnarayan Ray (8., March
20). As a wheat-grower I would like
to comment on and add to these articles.
Plain English states: “The Australian
wheat gift to India, however timely
and generous, will be a wasted gesture
unless it is followed up by closer political,
economic and strategical collaboration
between our two countries in the face
of the threat from Communist China.”
A sensible way to achieve this would be
for the Federal Government to buy one
million tons of wheat from the Aus-
tralian Wheat Board annually and then
give or sell the wheat to India under
similar terms to that of United States.
The money would then be lent to India
for certain types of economic pro-
grammes. This scheme would achieve
three objectives for Australia:—
1. As a highly developed nation we
would be discharging our moraL obliga-
tions towards underdeveloped countries
by raising our foreign aid to one per cent
of our national income as requested by
members of the United Nations.
2. Wheatgrowers are aware that as
methods improve and acreages increase
we could be left with a large carry-over
within the next year or two. Should this
happen we might have to consider wheat
acreage restriction.
3. An annual gift of one million tons
would make the wheat industry secure
and solve marketing problems. The
Chairman of the Australian Wheat
Board, Mr V. J. Moroney, has described
the China market as uncertain both in
volume and terms of trade. This seems
logical enough when we consider that
2.5 million tons (1963-64) that China
bought from us in that period represents
a very small percentage of the 190
million tons that she consumes. We add
also the danger of political “reconsidera-
tion” by China.
Naturally opposition to this plan can
be expected. I am not suggesting a total
ban on trade with China, but that the
trade should be kept to a level whereby
it could be suspended without disaster to
the wheat industry should the need arise.
C. J. O’DWYE
Tab ilk (Vic.).
In Defence of Tanner
SIR. —D. Devlin’s letter (8., March 27)
exemplifies the narrow parochial attitude
that some Australians persist in adopting.
This “land of opportunity” with its “tiny
population” will very soon cease to be
such unless steps are taken to solve the
immense problem of population ex-
pansion facing the world today. I do not
think Mr Devlin need worry about the
prospect of family extinction he men-
tions. In any case the relatively small
population of Australia is no argument
against contraception as he apparently
thinks it is. One of the main issues in-
volved in a discussion of contraception
is the happiness of individual husbands
and wives and their families. The well
being and self respect of women is a
central value to be considered. It is on
these issues that Tanner’s cartoons have
something pertinent to say.
J. JACKSON
Sydney (NSW).
(A selection of letters discussing Pat-
rick Tennison’s article on the Church of
England will be published next week )


THE UPSON
MARK 111
IS THE BEST METAL
LANTERN MADE
Celco quality
product
We'll give you an Upson 3-Cell
Torch and a famous Upson
Rugby Rubber Lantern if yours
is the best reason why.
YOU TELL US WHY the Upson
Mark 111 is the best lantern
for home and car use. 25
words or less. See it at your
favourite store and write in.
10 prizes to be won by the
end of May. Prizewinners will
be written to.
Address entries to: —
DEPT. K, UPSON PTY. LTD.
45 Albion St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HINTS TO HELP YOU WIN
• New release.
• Solid construction.
• Unconditionally
guaranteed.
• Dual-purpose dome-light
(red flashing and white).
• Mighty reflector head.
• Wide, firm base.
• Easy-to-hold handle —
doubles as stand.
• 65/- plus battery:
All Stores.
FORUM
National Health: Towards
a 100 per cent Cover
Steering a middle course
By HUGO GOLD
The recent rise in contributions and
rebates paid to and by most of the
Health Funds has once again high-
lighted this curious aspect of Australia’s
National Health Scheme. Meanwhile in
“socialised” Britain the National Health
has made the headlines and angry GPs
have threatened to resign from the
National Health Service. In the United
States, free enterprise champions of the
AMA are fighting an energetic battle
against President Johnson’s “Medicare”
bill.
There is a continuous and often bitter
conflict between those who believe that
the care of the sick “should be lifted from
the market-place” and be freely available
to all; and those who are convinced that
such sentiments are used only to obtain
cheap electoral popularity by conscript-
ing a largely defenceless professional
group.
The Australian NHS was devised by
the late Sir Earle Page in an attempt to
reconcile this conflict. There is no doubt
that the scheme has had considerable
success in providing a high standard of
medical care for the majority of the
population. It has also had the support
of the profession and of the population
as a whole. It has certainly avoided
much of the bitter controversy which has
been a feature of health schemes in many
other countries. In spite of this, the
scheme has some considerable short-
comings.
There are a number of essential re-
quirements which any National Health
Scheme should meet. First, the scheme
must provide adequate medical care and
services for the whole population. The
present scheme provides protection for
85 per cent of the population, but only
50-60 per cent cf those eligible for public
hospital treatment are covered. Thus the
very group least able to afford medical
expenses is the least insured. Further,
as a result of the confusing multiplicity
of funds and tables (81 separate funds
with over a dozen separate tables) many
patients are inadequately insured. Many
people, confident that they are “insured”,
may find themselves left with 65 per cent
of the bill to be met from their own
pockets. This results in public hospitals
being unable to collect a large proportion
of their fees, and unfairly penalises the
conscientious person who pays high rates
of insurance and high hospital bills.
Reimbursements were originally in-
tended to cover 90 per cent of costs. In
1960, when the average cost of a profes-
sional service was £1 135., 36 per cent
was paid by the patients. 35 per cent by
benefit organisations and 28 per cent by
the Commonwealth. Recent increases in
Commonwealth and fund benefits are
almost certain to be swallowed by a
forthcoming rise in doctors’ fees.
The second requirement for a National
Health Scheme is that it must be econo-
mical. The amount of money available
for National Health is limited and a large
rise in taxation to pay for a more com-
prehensive scheme is unlikely under the
present political circumstances. The pre-
sent scheme cost the Commonwealth just
on £80,000,000 in 1961-62. Per capita
expenditure from all sources on health
in Australia compares favorably with that
in the United Kingdom and with the US
level of 5.8 per cent of income. There
does not seem to be any significant
wastage either by doctors or patients,
probably due to the use of the reimburse-
ment system which acts as a means of
retaining financial responsibility in the
doctor/patient relationship.
Thu scheme must avoid outright oppo-
sition from the medical and pharmaceu-
tical professions. The failure of govern-
ments in Saskatchewan and Belgium to
impose schemes on unwilling doctors
should serve as a stern reminder to those
who minimise the importance of medical
opposition. The scheme should also be
sufficiently flexible to allow for the un-
hampered development of medicine and
should retain the greatest possible free-
dom for both patients and doctors.
Government interference in the develop-
ment of medical education and practice
should be avoided. This function should
properly be left to the universities and
postgraduate colleges. The present
scheme is fairly satisfactory in this re-
spect.
There are major injustices, however.
Persons suffering from illnesses con-
tracted before becoming eligible for bene-
fits may be left without cover. Similarly,
chronically ill patients who spend more
than 90 days in hospital may be left
with costs of 445. per day in public hos-
pitals in spite of the highest level of
available insurance. Migrants face par-
ticular difficulty. Many are used to com-
prehensive schemes in their countries of
origin, and fail to understand the volun-
tary nature of our scheme. Most cannot
afford insurance premiums before ob-
taining regular employment and accom-
modation. No provision is made for con-
tinuing cover when payments lapse due
to economic hardship, such as unemploy-
ment. Back payments must be met in
order to retain insurance and these are
often such as to deter re-insurance.
There is at present no dental health
insurance, and no Government subsidy
for dental costs. Similarly, ancillary
services such as physiotherapy, and occu-
pational therapy, which are important
adjuncts of modern medical care, remain
completely uncovered.
The Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme


can't
happen
I*ll,
Wi k
'
liliil
this kind of thinking,
this head-in-the-sand attitude
has no place
in Australia today.
One of the cornerstones of our way of life is a
free enterprise system. This is worth hanging
on to, worth telling people about, worth
reminding people that our inheritance,
freedom of choice, can be lost.
In banking we have many free enterprise
banks competing for your business, and you
are free to choose the bank that serves you
best. We tell people about it, too, by
occasionally reminding them that . . .
Every Australian benefits
from competition between banks
FREE ENTERPRISE BANKS
THE C.B.A. • THE E.S. &A. • THE A.N.Z. • THE NATIONAL
THE ADELAIDE • THE WALES • THE C.B.C.
H 240
was introduced in 1950 to provide “life-
saving” drugs, and now provides most of
the nation's drugs. It has provided
great relief to the sick and has undoubt-
edly allowed for the rapid expansion of
modern therapy. However, the cost has
leapt from an estimated £2,000,000 prior
to the introduction of the scheme to
£41,000,000 in 1962. The scheme now
costs more than the combined cost of
hospital and medical benefits.
This section of the scheme is unique in
that the patient pays a flat ss. for a
prescription. Often both doctor and
patient know little and care less about the
actual cost of the drug prescribed. Over-
prescribing and the use of expensive pro-
prietary lines has therefore become a
very real problem. A recent survey of
Melbourne homes estimated that there
were more drugs in Melbourne’s bath-
room cupboards than in its pharmacies.
Unused drugs are of course wasted ex-
pense. A major factor in the pharma-
ceutical bill is the inflated price of many
drugs. Advertising, amounting in the US
to a yearly 3000 dollars per medical prac-
titioner and probably at a similar level in
this country, is both wasteful and mis-
leading.
These shortcomings of the Australian
NHS have drawn criticism from many
sources. Sections of the ALP and of the
Country Party have advocated the intro-
duction of a scheme similar to the British
NHS. Certainly, the British scheme re-
mains popular in Britain among all poli-
tical parties and with most of the popula-
tion. But the British medical profession
has suffered greatly in status and financial
reward. There are many ways of pro-
viding comprehensive medical care which
would be more suitable to Australian
conditions.
The present system of reimbursing the
patient for his expenditure seems to be
particularly suitable. There is no inter-
ference with the direct doctor/patient
relationship and fees are paid for ser-
vices rendered—no more and no less.
The fact that the patient will later be
reimbursed removes financial anxiety but
leaves financial responsibility. This
“psychological” system of controlling
abuse avoids a mass of bureaucratic
machinery necessary to control schemes
in other countries.
A supplementary Australian NHS
would therefore involve the following:
1. A 100 per cent cover of the popula-
tion compared with the present 85 per
cent.
2. An average reimbursement of 90
per cent of costs compared with the pre-
sent 60-70 per cent and a 100 per cent
reimbursement for hospitalisation costs.
3. Full coverage for all persons resi-
dent in Australia.
4. A 90 per cent reimbursement of the
costs of dental care for children under


$fiUU Ltf#
146 J
i kßs
m }
««
<•
# m sm*
en
»€
\
I jSQMvkkty,
■ vintage
i WINE BIESUH6 j
§
7&» fagS |l
h #ii
l up##
##
§##/ V
Rhine Riesling
A very well-balanced Riesling with definite
character. Has delicate “spitzrig” adding fur-
ther enjoyment. g|g per bottle
Prices may vary according to area.
ms
0)c
IS
w,
m
"in mini'
OPENCI.ASS /EXPORT DRV
HOCK xfWHITE.
Two gold medals awarded to Leo
Buring’s 1963 Vintage Chateau
Leonay Riesling at the 1964 Royal
Agricultural Society Show (N.S.W.)
and 1963 Adelaide Royal Show.
LEO BURING PTY. LTD.
9 Carlotta Street, Artarmon
Tel.: 43-0247
c
5%
's m% •
#T#
L8252R
the age of 16, and extension of similar
cover to surgical appliances and physio-
therapy.
5. The introduction of a contact
system of NHS drug purchasing, “gen-
eric” prescribing, and the extension of
the 90 per cent reimbursement principle
to pharmaceutical benefit.
6. Financing the scheme by direct
contribution from all taxpayers.
7. The introduction of a fee schedule
for medical services.
Such a scheme could be financed either
by direct taxation or by direct contribu-
tion. A system of direct contribution has
many advantages. It remains distinct
from taxation and is earmarked for
health purposes. It avoids an unpopular
rise in income tax, and constitutes an
easy transition from the present scheme
of voluntary contribution.
A graduated scale of contributions of
4d. per pound of taxable income collect-
ed in the same way as income tax would
provide the necessary finance. >As at
present, two-thirds of health expenditure
would continue to come from general
revenue. Contributions to the supple-
mentary scheme could be expected to
raise approximately £100,000,000.
Reimbursement to the patient would
be upon presentation of a receipt to the
Post Office or National Health Office.
The reimbursement system would apply
to all sections of the scheme and would
control wastage. Provision for direct
payment should be made for special cases
of hardship.
The sound operation of a system of re-
imbursement based on fixed contributions
depends upon relatively stable medical
fees. The AMA already appears to have
recognised this principle by agreeing to
stabilise doctors’ fees. However, a fee
schedule determined by an independent
arbitration committee and subject to
periodical review would seem to be de-
sirable.
Such a scheme would involve little
change in current medical practice. The
major differences would be in the higher
reimbursement available under all sec-
tions of the scheme. The 90 per cent
reimbursement for dental fees for child-
ren under the age Of 16 would stimulate
early dental consultation and should make
a worthwhile contribution to the nation’s
dental health. A similar scheme operates
in New Zealand.
The pharmaceutical benefits scheme
would operate on the reimbursement
principle. No drug would be available
for sale until approved by a National
Health committee which would set stand-
ards of accuracy, quality and safety.
Drugs should be supplied to the NHS on
the tender system. Contracts would be
awarded on the basis of price, quality and
safety. Original research leading to new


.
TUBULAR STEEL POLE
Graceful , . . practical . . .
with a wide • range of uses
....
iiiiiiiillp
llililiili
lliliiilllU
m hi
ilP'
w
mm
: I:
mm
Tapered smoothly over the entire length for
streamlined beauty, this new type of Tubular
Steel pole has a very wide range of uses that
will appeal specially to architects and engineers.
Here are some of the main advantages:
1. Being of circular cross section and even wall
thickness throughout, they offer superior
resistance to wind forces and ensure maxi*
mum strength for carrying of top fitments.
2. High resistance to corrosion due to absence
of corners and flat surfaces.
3. Painting maintenance reduced.
4. Adaptability - suitable for Lighting, Sign-
posts, Flag Poles, TV Antennae Masts,
Telephone and Telegraph Poles and many
other structural purposes.
5., Tapered tubes are supplied in straight
lengths ready for fabrication to the required
use.
Your local Stewarts and Lloyds branch invites
enquiries for sizes and further details. Please
send for FREE booklet.
STEWARTS AND LLOYDS (DISTRIBUTORS) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Cairns, Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin, Alice Springs, Launceston. AGENCIES: Mackay, Kalgoorlie,
5L2250
products would continue to be rewarded
by patent protection.
Successful drugs would appear on the
NHS list according to their generic name.
Doctors prescribing drugs from this list
would earn their patients a 90 per cent
reimbursement. More expensive brands
which have failed to gain NHS contracts
would be eligible for the same reimburse-
ment, the patient meeting any added ex-
pense. Experience in Australian public
hospitals and by the American Armed
Forces suggests that the use of such a
contract system could greatly reduce the
drug bill. It would certainly eliminate a
great deal of wasteful advertising.
The scheme outlined above involves no
radical change in economic planning. The
cost of additional services at present
paid by the patient would be met by the
compulsory contributions. A graduated
scale of contributions ranging from 4s.
to 12s. weekly would raise approximately
£100,000,000. It is expected that the
pharmaceutical scheme would cost
£10,000,000 less than at present and that
the Government would save a further
£15,000,000 at present allowed as tax
deductions for medical expenses. To-
gether this makes a total of £125,000,000
available for the scheme without provi-
ding any more from general revenue.
This correlates well with the total of
£125,000,000 allowed as a tax deduction
for medical expenses in 1960-61.
This scheme of compulsory compre-
hensive insurance has many advantages.
It provides complete financial protection
for the whole population without arbit-
rary changes in medical practice. It re-
tains freedom of choice for both patient
and doctor and makes full use of both pri-
vate and public facilities. Commonwealth
expenditure is not greatly increased whilst
administration would be relatively simple.
Finally, the scheme could be implemented
almost immediately and offers the most
practical way of providing comprehen-
sive medical care for the Australian
people.
It is of interest to note that the Febru-
ary 20 issue of the “Medical Journal of
Australia” contains a leader devoted to
the Canadian Royal Commission on
Fiealth. The Canadian Royal Commis-
sion set out “to inquire into and report
upon the existing facilities and the future
needs for health services for the people
of Canada and the resources to provide
such services and to recommend such
measures consistent with the constitu-
tional division of legislative powers in
Canada as the Commissioners believe
will ensure that the best possible care is
available to all Canadians”’
The Commissioners believe that this
objective can best be achieved through
a comprehensive universal health services
programme based on freedom of choice
for both patients and physician, with
free and self-governing professions, and
financed through prepayment. In effect
the recommendations amount to prepay-
ment hospital insurance, with pay-
ment for medical services on a fee-for-
service basis by a form of compulsory
prepayment through taxation. It is be-
lieved that such a scheme would absorb
no more than 6 per cent of the Gross
National Product, and would not strain
the economy.
The Canadian Royal Commissioners
have recommended a system which is
fundamentally identical to the scheme
suggested for Australia. The attitude of
the medical profession to these proposals
is not yet clear but the indications are
that opposition would occur only to
minor details rather than to the principles
of compulsory comprehensive health
insurance.


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Ballet as Cultural
Diplomacy
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Cultural diplomacy is one of the
facts of modern international rela-
tions. Australia, which has been
on the receiving end of artistic exports
from Britain, America, Japan and Russia,
as well as smaller countries such as the
Philippines, will this year make its first
major entry into the field. The Austra-
lian Ballet Company and the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra go first to London
for the Commonwealth Festival and later
on tour, with the blessing, and the help
to the extent of £lOO,OOO, of the Com-
monwealth Government.
However, Australia comes late into
what is already a highly competitive field.
Countries, new and old, large and small,
clamor for artistic attention in the large
capitals. When the administrator of the
Australian Ballet, Mr Geoffrey Ingram,
was in Rome recently arranging the com-
pany’s visit the Australian Ambassador
told him how delighted he was that an
Australian group would be dancing there.
However, he pointed out that an Austra-
lian art exhibition had recently been
shown in Rome, but in the same month
he had had 70 invitations to art exhibi-
tions, most of them arranged by embas-
sies or legations.
The Australian Ballet Company and
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra will
have direct competition from the Royal
Winnipeg Ballet and the Toronto Sym-
phony at the Festival, but many other
Commonwealth countries, particularly
those of the Caribbean and Africa, are
sending dance groups. Our effort may
show that we can produce a ballet com-
pany and an orchestra on a par with per-
haps several dozen such groups in the
world, but the dance groups from the
other Commonwealth countries will show
they have a distinctive culture of their
own.
The Australian Ballet Company will
leave Australia, probably at the end of
July, depending on whether or not it per-
forms at the opening of the "National
Civic Theatre in Canberra. Its tour is
one of the longest ever undertaken by
any ballet company.
The company will make three appear-
ances at the Royal Opera House, Covent
Garden, on October 1, with matinee and
evening performances on October 2. It
may not sound much but the Australian
Ballet is the only visiting company to
dance at the Royal Opera House during
the Festival, and the company closes the
Festival, which begins on September 16.
During the Festival the company will
dance also at Liverpool and Glasgow.
On their way to Britain they will dance
at the Baalbeck Festival in Lebanon
(the joint artistic director of the com-
pany, Mr Robert Helpmann, is an old
Baalbeck hand).
After the Commonwealth Festival the
company will tour Europe for eight weeks
with Fonteyn and Nureyev as guest stars.
“Names” are essential in Europe and the
company certainly has acquired the
names to carry it through.
On the way home the company will
dance in the Philippines and Japan may
see what it can make of Helpmann's
Japanese-inspired ballet, “Yugen”.
An overseas tour will undoubtedly
give the Australian Ballet, still only three
years old, an immense degree of confi-
dence and a greater polish. It is confi-
dently assumed by the people behind the
company that this tour will be the first
of many. Mr Ingram said that the De-
partment of External Affairs had already
indicated that if this tour is a success
the department would be interested in
further tours, particularly in Asia.
Such a future for the company would
put it on a different basis, in several ways.
“We would have to keep it to ‘interna-
tional' standards,” Mr Ingram said. "After
we' return to Australia, we expect to per-
form at the Adelaide Festival next year,
then have what we hope will be a trium-
phal return tour. We cannot look past
that but it would be a pity for the com-
pany to slip back then. We probably
never will do country tours again and I
don't think it is right that we should.
Actually, some States, including Queens-
land and Western Australia, have their
own local groups on tour and they don't
particularly need or want us.”
Keeping a ballet company at “interna-
tional” standard might prove an expen-
sive business. What will happen to the
other arts? This seems a particularly
good year in which to ask this question.
The Trust opera company has been dis-
banded, so that it will not compete with
the commercially managed Sutherland-
Williamson season. This is, no doubt,
sensible, but it does mean that opera
singers still do not have the continuity of
work in the same company and with the
same singers which dancers have gained.
Most of the members of the Trust com-
pany chorus will sing with the Williamson
company but many of the principals will
not. As for drama, the only question
would be, what drama?
“It is probably better,” a member of
the Elizabethan staff said, “to do one
thing at a time.” One thing at a time
at the moment is ballet. At one stage it
was opera, at another drama. Now it
is ballet.
Ballet cannot indefinitely take away
from the other arts. There is. on the sur-
face, a good case to be made out for
ballet as export. It involves no language
problem, but in opera the language


problem is only theoretical, and most of
our audiences in Asia would probably be
English-speaking anyway. If a country
wants other peoples to know how it
thinks and feels, the strongest export case
can probably be made out for drama.
The only final answer to what, after
all, have become pretty weary questions
is more money. If Australia proposes
to export culture regularly, more money
may be forthcoming from high places
than is available when it is bein’g pro-
duced for local consumption as a sort of
vague “good thing”.
The artistic director of the Australian
Ballet, Miss Peggy van Praagh (now
“joint” with Mr Helpmann), feels that
people here still haven’t much idea what
ballet and opera costs or what other
countries are prepared to spend on them.
“In our first year of operation we had
a well-publicised loss of £100,000,” Miss
van Praagh said. “Most of this was non-
repeating initial expenses. The only sur-
prise these losses were to me was that
they were not more. I expected £250,000.
“But even now members of the board
of the Trust say to me, ‘When are you
going to start making a profit?’ I don't
know whether they are serious—they
sound serious enough—or whether they
are just trying to annoy me.
“Last year we got £75,000 and I am
astonished at how far we made it go.
We added three new ballets to our
repertoire—‘The Display’, ‘Jazz Spec-
trum’ and ‘Roundelay’. Each had a com-
missioned score. Robert Helpmann
came out to do the choreography for
‘The Display’—and that doesn't cost
nothing, I can tell you. As well, we com-
pletely revised ‘Aurora’s Wedding’. We
did our season with Fonteyn and
Nureyev and then a joint season with
the opera company. Because of the
ballet company the opera company was
able to do ‘Catulli Carmina’ and ‘Prince
Igor’. Then we did a season in Perth.
It was a tremendous year's work. And
those three new ballets might remain in
our repertoire for years.”
Miss van Praagh regards the acquisi-
tion of new ballets as an important aspect
of the company's tour. Probably a month
will be spent in London. Sir Frederick
Ashton, the chief choreographer and
artistic director of the Royal Ballet, will
“give” the company his ballet, “La Fille
Malgardee”. Sir Frederick, Miss van
Praagh said, is “too busy ever to think
of coming to Australia”. Nureyev is
also prepared to mount two new ballets,
“Raimondo” and “Don Quixote”, for the
companv. As well. the company
will acquire the Arthur Boyd sets and cos-
tumes for ‘‘Elektra", which Helpmann
will produce for them in next year’s
Adelaide Festival.
The Australian Ballet Company is still
to a large extent Miss van Praagh’s own
creation. Her pride in it is tempered
with common sense.
“I believe that the dancers’ vitality and
youth will carry them through an over-
seas tour,” she said, “but there is no
doubt they are a very young company
which needs more experience. The
youngest dancers are 17, which I think
is at least a year too young.
“However, I am sure that while the
company is overseas they will be learning
just as enthusiastically as they will be
showing others what they can do.”
Bare Bosoms
in Trafalgar
Square
From NEIL KELLY in London
The first Commonwealth Arts Festi-
val is a belated but brave new effort
by Britain to get closer to the
Commonwealth. It will also be the most
colorful spectacle Britain has ever seen.
For 24 weeks September 16-October 2
Britain will play host to 1600 dancers,
musicians, singers, actors, artists and
writers from 19 Commonwealth coun-
tries.
The British Government and the local
governments of cities involved in the
festival will foot the bill, which will
amount to something like £350,000 ster-
ling. It is being called the Festival of the
Four Ports for this cultural spree is being
held simultaneously in four city ports
London, Liverpool, Cardiff and Glasgow.
It would be hard to imagine more
distinguished patronage for any event.
The Queen is patron: Prince Philip is
chairman of the advisory council on
which the High Commissioners of parti-
cipating countries are represented as well
as a glittering array of professional talent
Sir Laurence Olivier, Dame Ninette
de Valois, Sir Malcolm Sargent, Sir
Arthur Bliss, Yehudi Menuhin, Peter
Hall, Sir Tyrone Guthrie, Sir Hugh Cas-
son, Sir Michael Balcon, the Earl of
Harewood and C. Day Lewis.
The Festival is above all the idea of
Mr lan Hunter who has been appointed
the first director-general. He is a former
director of the Edinburgh Festival but
admits that the principal ideas for the
new festival sprang from his experience
of the Adelaide Festival. He played an
important advisory role in its creation.
He has acted in a similar capacity in
Canada and in recent years has been a
constant traveller through the Common-
wealth.
“During these travels,” he says, “I be-
came imbued with a conviction that the
future of the Commonwealth lay in the
establishment of a basic mutual respect
between its members which could be
most usefully served by a greater know-
ledge of the various countries and artists.
Another'Festival spokesman in Cardiff
has declared: “The world arts should
not be used in an exclusive or limiting
sense but the festival should provide
entertainment for all sections of the com-
munity.” Thus there will be sport as well
as art, pop as well as ballet, jazz as well
as poetry.
Officialdom is even relaxing a few
bleak rules so as to stifle the inhibitions
that often mark these occasions in
Britain. The Ministry of Works and the
police have agreed for the first time in
living memory that a stage can be erected
in Trafalgar Square.
Here from lunchtime until midnight
anybody in town may dance and sway to
African tribal drums and steel band
calypsos from the Caribbean. On to the
stage also will go the famous stilt dancers
from Tanzania, men who dance on 10ft-
high temple dancers from India,
sword dancers from Pakistan, Maori
dancers and singers from New Zealand
and bare-bosomed girl dancers from
West Africa. “They dance with their
bosoms bare in their own countries and
there is no reason why they should not
appear in Britain as they do there,” says
Hunter.
The police are already wringing their
hands over the traffic chaos this jam-
boree will cause in central London.
The Festival authorities must be a
little anxious about the relative lack of
public attention the festival is attracting.
British newspaper references to it have
been scanty but Hunter and his collea-
gues say they are confident public, interest
will be forthcoming once bookings for
the concerts, ballet, plays and other
events open on May 15.
Late confirmation of participation by
some of the visiting orchestras and other
national groups has delayed the pro-
gramme preparation and thus held back


SUCCESSFUL
CONVENTIONS
TAKE PLACE AT
•f*:;
The hotel conveniently situated close
to the commercial heart of the Aus-
tralian capital.
The hotel with the experience, the staff
and special facilities conventions re-
quire.
The hotel with truly comfortable ac-
commodation.
Your convention runs really smoothly at The
Hotel Canberra. Your particular requirements
are closely attended to by experienced staff
and you use special rooms giving you the
comfort and privacy you require. Projection
facilities are available and of course you
receive the same renowned Hotel Canberra
service as other guests. Accommodation is
tasteful and comfortable. Every room has
bath or shower and toilet facilities. Round-
the-clock room service, naturally. Single
rooms from £3/17/6 a dav.
THE
HOTEL CANBERRA
Commonwealth Avenue, A.C.T.
Telephone: 7-2251.
The hotel that caters specially for conventions.
HC-24
THE
TJ
tl
O
T
E
L
C
A
N
B
E
R
R
A
interest. Canada, for instance, has only
finalised its plans in recent weeks.
But according to Hunter, many more
individual performers, dance groups and
orchestras have offered to participate
than could be accepted. Nineteen Com-
monwealth countries are sending artists
to the festival Australia, New Zealand,
Canada, India, Pakistan, Ceylon, Ghana,
Jamaica, Kenya, Malawi, Malaysia,
Malta, Nigeria, Rhodesia, Sierra Leone,
Tanzania, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda
and Zambia.
Australia's contribution, the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra and the Australian
Ballet, was the first major one to be
nominated. The SSO will play on the
opening night in London's Royal Festival
Hall which will be the focal point for the
entire festival; Australian composer Mal-
colm Williamson is writing a new violin
concerto for the occasion which will be
performed by the orchestra, with Yehudi
Menuhin as soloist.
A great dance gala at the Royal Albert
•Hall will be one of the highlights of the
festival with Africa, Asian, Caribbean
and Pacific dances never before seen in
Britain.
Plays submitted by more than 100
Commonwealth authors in 18 different
countries are now being read by a selec-
tion committee and those selected will be
performed in theatres in the four festival
cities.
Music professors from 15 countries
will join in a five-day conference at
Liverpool University under the chair-
manship of Yehudi Menuhin.
Indian musicians headed by the Ravi
Shankar and the celebrated oboist Bis-
millah Khan will give concerts which
audiences will then be able to contrast
with performances of other Common-
wealth music and with European cham-
ber music.
A remarkable collection of paintings,
sculpture, carvings and other arts is
being gathered together at the Royal
Academy for an exhibition entitled
“Treasures of Commonwealth Art.”
Totem poles from Canada, Australian
Aboriginal bark paintings, exotic masks
from Africa and a collection of “child-
ren’s art from the Commonwealth” will
be included in this and other exhibitions.
There will be festivals of cinema and
television films, poetry conferences and
readings, a military tattoo, fireworks over
the Thames, a festival of folk song, and
Liverpool, the city of beat, will demon-
strate the difference between the Mersey
beat and the African beat.
Britain earnestly hopes the festival will
be renewed in a year or two in another
Commonwealth country. lan Hunter and
his colleagues hope that Australia will
offer to be host on the next occasion.
Hulme in the
Lions’ Den
IT was not strictly speaking Theatre
in the Round. For one thing those
in the row behind the speakers had
to be content with the backs of heads
and an occasional half-profile. But the
four spotlights did help and if most of
the talk was directed to the Postmaster-
General, Mr A. Huime, who sat in front
of the panel, that was understandable.
The “Quotes and Questions” party
organised by the Australian Radio, Tele-
vision and Screenwriters’ Guild at the
Ensemble Theatre, Sydney, began with
supper and drinks—and continued with
debate. Last November, -in the House
of Representatives, Mr Huime, speak-
ing at 1.35 a.m., had said: “I do not
think we have many good scriptwriters in
Australia ... we have not many good
actors in Australia ... we have not pro-
ducers and we have not directors of
high quality in Australia at present.”
Mr Huime had also said that Australian
actors do not ‘‘practise, practise, prac-
tise” and that there was a lack of people
who could teach scriptwriting.
Welcoming Mr Huime and other Par-
liamentarians (including Liberals Mr T.
Hughes and Mr H. B. Turner and Labor’s
Senator McLelland, the Guild president,
Mr Richard Lane, said he could not
believe that Australians did not wish to
see Australian television drama on their
screens. Australia was “too virile, too
big, too proud a country” for it to be
true and so there had to be some other
reason why writers had to fight to get
continuous work in their profession here.
What was this other reason? Mr
Lane implied it was “the system” a
looseness in the laws of the land which
enabled the commercial managements of
television stations to buy imported pro-
grammes to such an extent that local
writers had no markets for their work.
Producer and co-director of the Old


i GENERAL CREDITS
LIMITED
DEBENTURE STOCK
(SECOND SERIES)
7i%
5-10 years
Applications can only proceed on the form enclosed
with the Prospectus which may be obtained from:
• Any branch of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF
AUSTRALIA LIMITED
• Any RECOGNIZED STOCKBROKER
• GENERAL CREDITS LIMITED,
277 William St., Melbourne. 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. 61 8581
Brokers to the issue:
6822 lan Potter & Co.
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C.B.A.
Tote Theatre, Robin Lovejoy, began by
agreeing with what Mr Hulme had said.
“There is a shortage of good scriptwriters
in Australia,” he said. “There is no
shortage of people who try to write
scripts, but there are few writers of ex-
perience and excellence.” Pointing out
that in the United States a handful of
scriptwriters dominated the TV industry,
he asked: “Are good scriptwriters not a
rare commodity anywhere?” and con-
cluded that it would be more correct to
say that there was a shortage of outlets
for good writers in Australia. As for a
shortage of' people who could teach
scriptwriting, Mr Lovejoy did not be-
lieve that writers could be taught. What
they needed was the opportunity to prac-
tise.
And as for Australian actors not
practising enough, he had found them
a more dedicated profession than most.
When it came to his own breed of pro-
ducers and directors, Mr Lovejoy was
even more definite. He had no figures,
but per capita of population he believed
that there were as many directors and
producers of high quality here as any-
where else.
At the bottom of Mr Hulme’s state-
ment, Mr Lovejoy felt he saw the real
root of the problem—a widely perpetu-
ated myth that all Australians did was
questionable and probably bad and that
what everyone else did was unquestion-
able and probably good.
When it was his turn to speak, drama
critic Francis Evers, barely containing
his passion, jumped to his feet and said:
“As Mr Hulme’s statement stands now,
without any qualifications, I have nothing
whatsoever to say in favor of it.”
Evers said that the state of Australian
theatre was little short of a national
scandal. Ninety per cent of what he, as
a critic, had to see was frankly rubbish,
even if some of it was entertaining rub-
bish, in the worst sense of the word
entertaining. Good theatre, he felt, was
as good as any he had seen anywhere in
most of the capitals of Europe, from
Belfast to Zurich.
There was a hint in his pejorative use
of the word “entertaining” of something
Mr Evers articulated specifically later.
It was wrong, he maintained, to take as
a criterion something which was success-
ful and which the people wanted. Par-
liament had to show leadership in mat-
ters of culture.
Actor Walter Sullivan found “a germ
of truth” in what Mr Hulme had said,
but it was of the same macabre sort
as the statement by Himmler that “there
were no longer any Jews in the Warsaw
ghetto”. In 1777 Australia was short of
convicts and sheep farmers but these
deficiencies were very soon remedied by
Government action.
Theatre in Australia was a distressed
and depressed industry. There were the
artists who could change this only one
flying day away from Australia, sitting in
their elaborate homes, with their luxury
cars outside, and all to a man wanting
desperately to go home. But if they
did they would be unable to make a
living. They had been subjected to exile
and it was “monstrous that people had
to go overseas to practise their profes-
sion.”
Writer George Johnston complained
that the crucial problem facing writers
was the lack of continuity of work., In
the land of the “fair go” it was not a
“fair go” for artists to be denied work.
Australia was losing its idiom to America
and its image to everyone else. It was
not a case of wingeing but asking only
for the right to work.
Then for a moment the ghost of
nearly every British writer who has tried
to explain Australians seemed to float
across the lapping harbor. Chairman
Alastair Duncan asked whether the real
problem was that after a hard day in the
surf Australians could not be bothered
going to the theatre.
George Johnston felt that there were
just as many people watching, the idiot
box as the sparkle on the surf. But con-
trolling the idiot box, at least in the ABC,
were bureaucratic committees who
stifled creativity. It was the ABC which
was charged with the prime responsibility
for the production of drama, yet a script
submitted to the ABC might have to go
through 60 pairs of hands.
In discussion, Mr J. Oswin, general
manager at ATN-7, said that the insist-
ence on a blanket 50 per cent minimum
Australian quota for commercial tele-
vision in some ways worked against the
production of drama because quantity
counted for more than quality. In answer
to questions, Mr Oswin said that there
was no deliberate programming of top
American programmes against Austra-
lian programmes on opposition channels,
that the rising cost of imported pro-
grammes meant there was less money
available for local productions, that the
main reason why Press interests con-
trolled some television stations was be-
cause they took over at a time when
other commercial interests were pulling
out of television because they could not
stand the high costs and that the Govern-
ment might assist local production in two
ways. First, it could insist that foreign
production companies spent a proportion
of their revenue in Australia, and,
second, there could be a differential quota
on Australian production.
Writer Richard L-ane echoed this last
suggestion when he asked the PMG to
look at the possibility of awarding points
to Australian productions so that three
hours'of drama have a value
over three hours of ice-skating.
Yet, while both the writers and Mr
Oswin seemed to agree in theory, Mr
Oswin faced continual heckling while he
spoke and his explanations were treated
with open disbelief.
What nobody said but which was
obvious to anyone attending both the
National TV Congress and the panel de-
that in fact there exists a
deep gulf in understanding between the
station managements and writers, produ-
cers, actors and the associated groups
who are quick to criticise them. Looked
at even from their own point of view
the writers had at least made the greater
effort to bridge the gulf than the orga-
nisers of the TV Congress.
The last word went to Mr Hulme, who
said he would take notice of many of the
things said. Using a mixed metaphor
of which any Australian writer might be
proud, he said that although he might
be “Daniel in the lions’ den" he was not
going “to put his head in a noose” by
expressing any of his own views on what
he had heard.
S.L.


ART GALLERY DIRECTOR
THE CITY OF MILDURA, VICTORIA, is seek-
ing applicants for the position of Director
of the Mildura Arts Centre at a salary
of £2,000 per annum.
The Centre will comprise a Museum,
Art Gallery and 405-seat Theatre. In
consequence, the Director must have know-
ledge of these fields and the Arts gener-
ally; at the same time he must possess
administrative ability.
Applications before 30th April, 1965,
are to be addressed to the undersigned.
W. J. DOWNIE, Town Clerk,
P.O. Box 105, Mildura, Victoria.
HELP
all the year
round
THEATRE
A Tasteless Confection
Hello, Dolly. Her Majesty’s Theatre. Sydney.
“Hello, Dolly” is a big, bright, Broadway
package-deal. J. C. Williamson’s have
spent a good deal of hard cash on it and
producer Fred Hebert has put a good
deal of hard work into it, but they will
surely get their reward in large, enthusi-
astic audiences for months to come. In
fact, it could play as long as there are
audiences in Australia indiscriminate
enough in their standard of entertainment
to clap scene changes.
Williamson’s have so skilfully wrapped
up the “Dolly” package with bright cos-
tumes, loud music and cheerful, athletic
dancing that it is some time before you
realise that it’s a fairly tasteless con-
fection.
The score is often undistinguished. The
singing is unremarkable, and, in the case
of one actor, quite remarkably bad. So
much has been lost of Wilder’s “The
Matchmaker” and so little added that
perhaps apologies, rather than acknow-
ledgements, are due. However, it is no
use making comparisons between this and
the “Pygmalion” - Lady”
achievement. If you do, you have a
lifetime of disappointments in front of
you. But it is hard to see why so much
of the wit and charm have shrivelled.
The answer seems to be that “Hello,
Dolly” is the complete formula musical.
A conference decides that Broadway
audiences are ripe for another big musi-
cal, this time a casting-back to high-
button boots. Everything in its turn is
added, except, of course, “something”.
What is mostly missing from this con-
scious return to the earlier style of musi-
cal is the unselfconscious sentimentality
which enabled you to gloss easily over
the absurdities of musical comedy plot-
ting and action.
Among the really good things in the
confection is the male dancing. Betty
Pounder has drilled her dancers into the
efficiency of a centipede. The corn-store
scene in the first act and the “Hello,
Dolly” scene in the second are the live-
liest and most interesting segments of
the show.
Among the good things, too, must be
counted Carole Cook as Dolly Levi, the
over-optimistic widow who turns her pro-
fessional skill as a matchmaker to help
herself to the Yonkers skinflint, Horace
Vandergelder. Again, it is no use saying
that Miss Cook's Dolly pales beside
Shirley Booth's film one. Miss Cook’s is
not meant to be the same person, and
within the unsubtle framework of the
musical she gives a very effective per-
formance. She certainly makes the show
worth seeing for her glossy, handsome
appearance and for her ironic under-
lining of the aburdities of the big “star”.
Jack Good as Vandergelder gives con-
stantly efficient support. Jill Perryman
brings grace and the best voice in the
cast to her part as Irene Molloy, and
Tikki Taylor, as the young milliner, and
Brian Hannan, as the junior shop assis-
tant, are spritely and self-confident.
PATRICIA ROLFE
OPERA
The Broken Pitcher
The Amorous Judge. Eric Gross. Union
Theatre, Sydney.
Composer Eric Gross conducted the
world premiere of his opera, “The
Amorous Judge”, at the Union Theatre
last Friday night. A large VIP-studded
audience acclaimed him. Heinrich von
Kleist’s 19th-century comedy, “Der Zer-
brochene Krug” (“The Broken Pitcher”),
renamed for euphonic reasons, was re-
born with all-Australian cast and music.
The new opera’s impact was a natural
one because the story was funny, com-
paratively easy to follow, the acting was
good and Eric Gross’s music fitted like
a glove. The success of the opera, which
came after the interval, contrasted
sharply with the first half of the pro-
gramme. The first part consisted of a
“Theme and Variations” for orchestra
which Gross wrote especially for the
occasion for the apparent reason of
setting a mood with light effects and to
give Israeli dancer Vera Goldman a
chance to give a rather indifferent per-
formance.
The music was in the manner we have
come to identify with Gross: gentle
melodic lines, sharp little phrases, chords
built of fourths and fifths, sometimes two
keys at once and clever use of wind
instruments. Then came Gross’s “Sin-
fonietta”, pleasing enough but distracted
by a ballet written to it. In itself the
choreography was not unpleasing. It
was cast in the same time as the opera
(the Breughel period), and the six dancers
portrayed the four seasons —rejoicing in
spring, hunting and falconry in summer,
feasting in autumn and repentance in
winter when man wrestles with his
conscience, and death finally takes over.
The audience did not appear very im-
pressed.
Then came “The Amorous Judge”. As
soon as bass-baritone Alan Light (as
Judge Adam) stumbled down a stairway
starting his bizarre entanglements, atten-
tion never flagged. The story of the
“naughty” judge and his ultimate down-
fall was unfolded with wit and taste.
Diction was not always clear and the
audience had difficulty, sometimes, in
following the story. Gross had written
the music with nine of Australia’s best
singers in mind, making use of each per-
former’s individual characteristics. Alan
Light, whom Gross had chosen for the
title role, and who had actually inspired
the birth of the opera, was outstanding in
singing as well as his portrayal of the
rascally Judge Adam. The others,
William Kelley, Althea Bridges, Frank
Lisle, Valda Bagnall, Marie Tysoe,
Ronald Maconaghie, Gino Zancarano
and Rosalind Keene filled their roles with
professional excellence.
The orchestra, led by Geza Bachman,
consisted of 22 professionals eight
violins, two violas, two ’cellos, double
bass, two flutes, oboe, two clarinets, bass
clarinet, horn, percussion and harp. To
make it sound bigger than it was, Gross
had “juggled” the orchestration and had
strengthened the string lines with wind
players. The result was that sometimes
the orchestra tended to overshadow the
singers. A curious part of the music
towards the end was the use of tom-
toms. It did add color but it also added
an irritating quality after a while. The
libretto, written by Professor Len
McGlashan of the University of New
England, was a gem of relevance and
effective use of the language. The story
goes that when he first saw it Eric Gross
remarked that it was so good that it
should stand on its own, and that he
could hardly bring himself to write music
to it.
Nevertheless, fie did write the music,
thereby creating an opera with all
ingredients nicely balanced. Stage design
by Philip Hickie was simple and effective.
“The Amorous Judge” seems destined to
go far. Unfortunately, the first per-
formance of Peter Sculthorpe’s new
quartet clashed with the dress rehearsal
of the Gross opera; I hope to return to
Mr Sculthorpe’s work later this year.
JACK KUNST


to solve the “more
time” problem
f 4
0
this could
be the key
you seek!
Unlocks you from the problems of
dictation . . . Most time-consuming
necessity in business . . . Call one
of the key personnel at D.M.C. He
will make a comprehensive survey
without cost or obligation and give
expert advice on the most suitable
equipment. Contact our Survey
Section . . . write or phone 26.6951
(ext. 101) now!
DICTATING
MACHINE
CENTRE
R. B. WYPER PTY. LTD.
176 Day St., Sydney. Phone 26.6951
And in All States
DMC/2119
NU-DENTURE
GIVES
ALL DENTURES
NEW FACE-LOOK
& WEAR
from only 40/-
• It’s new! It’s clear, crystal, self-relining,
moulding, setting to shape of mouth
while-u-wear, becomes as hard as same
material as denture acrylic plastic.
• One application on denture lasts up to
2 years.
• Compensates worn and loose - fitting
dentures and gum shrinkage.
• Creates beautiful, light, tight, double-
suction wearing, deodourising new fit.
Avoid embarrassment. Fully guaranteed
harmless. Not a bulky mouthful sub-
stance or daily sticking powder.
Sold only by RE-NU CO. (Estab. 1932),
58 Swan St., opp. Richmond Stn., Vic.
42 1155. Free to all purchasers: Denture
smoke stain, odour eliminating outfit.
I enclose rO/- for Nu-Denture or send free
folder describing action of Nu-Denture and
testimonials.
NAME
ADDRESS Bill.
ANCESTRY TRACED
Historical research can help you discover your
British Ancestors. Total outlay of £A3S brings
professional report with documents. When
writing please give information already known.
BROOKS & SIMPSON
Genealogists
5 FENCHURCH STREET, LONDON, E.C.3.
RECORDINGS
The Froman Touch
With a Song in My Heart. Jane Froman.
Encore Series. Capitol. ENC 9088.
Eyes for You. Ethel Ennis. RCA. LSP-2984.
The Dave Brubeck Quartet: Jazz Impres-
sions of New York. CBS. SBP 233188.
Goldfinger. Score by John Barry. United
Artists. UALS 8074.
Capitol’s Jane Froman release is, pre-
sumably, a reissue of the old sound-
track album of the Fox film of her life,
starring Susan Hayward in a shallowly
accomplished performance which was
somewhat ill-fitted to Miss Froman’s
warm, mature voice. The record is one
for the collector: elegantly but briskly
accompanied by an anonymous band
(Alfred Newman and the Fox orchestra?)
Miss Froman sings with a wonderful
richness and authority, only moving out-
side her very considerable range in the
faster-moving numbers, when she tends
(discourteous as it may be to suggest it)
to resemble the late Margaret Dumont
performing the twist. Her “Blue Moon”
(a beautiful, durable song) is perhaps the
best ever recorded—well, anyway, since
Mel Torme's. And she splendidly resur-
rects the number which Bette Davis so
unforgettably sang for the troops in a
’forties classic of kitsch : “They’re Either
Too Young or Too Old” (“I’ll never
fail ya/When you are in Australia” is
a rhyme to have made even Hopkins
blush).
Ethel Ennis, a performer new to me,
sings in a fashion rather uncomfortably
reminiscent of Ella Fitzgerald on “Eyes
for You”. Her exuberant style, long-
breathed phrases and sudden switches
from blues-style to a contemporary
commercial bounce are characteristic of
so many current night club-style perform-
ers, hovering between jazz proper and
the sell-out pure and simple. In Miss
Ennis’s case, a need to have the best
of both worlds, and she nearly makes it,
most of the time; in “Angel Eyes”, she
really does.
Dave' Brubeck's “Jazz Impressions of
New York” consists of music specially
composed by Mr Brubeck for the tele-
vision series “Mr Broadway”. The pur-
pose was to catch “the rhythm and
atmosphere of New York City”. The
technical brilliance of the score can't
be denied, and Mr Brubeck's learned
sleeve notes, discussing such things as
the twelve-tone handling of one of the
four melodies in the theme tune, are
forbiddingly scholarly. Nevertheless, as
a layman and popular music buff, I
found the overall effect too thin and
cerebral; the light, dexterous, and yet
somehow antiseptic and uninviting Bru-
beck style for me renders New York as
dull as Poughkeepsie. The city itself,
crude, rough, hideous, but charged with
an inexplicable energy, quite fails to
come through in this silky or platinum-
plated music.
“Goldfinger”—the title song spectacu-
larly crowed by Shirley Bassey—is re-
created on a new United Artists release
of John Barry’s score for this incredibly
shoddy film. The images were of a
stunning badness, with some of the worst
matte process work and back projection
seen in the cinema’s history and camera-
work of a Trucolor by Consolidated
harshness. Appropriately, the score
strives hard—like the film—for a Holly-
wood dash and brilliance, and ends up
being merely vulgar. Nevertheless, I’d
temper I these harsh words with some
praise for the title number itself, done
with lyrics by Anthony Newley and
Leslie Bricusse, and for the nice re-
pressed tension of the music for the
villain Auric Goldfinger’s factory.
CHARLES HIGHAM
Reverent Folkies
Sean and Sonja. CBS 8P233179.
I Can See a New Day. Pete Seeger. CBS
8P233177.
Of Girls I Sing. Nelson Eddy. HMV Stereo
0C5D7628.
Sean and Sonja’s approach to folk
music, as demonstrated here, is earnest
and quietly reverent. Both have pleasing
voices which blend well, but on most
tracks I found my attention captivated
by the accompaniment: two guitars and a
bass provide a delicate and extremely
musical background throughout. Their
repertoire includes some unusual songs,
but a few more like the saucy English
ballad “Two Maids” would have bright-
ened up what is a consistently tasteful
but somewhat joyless recording.
On “I Can See a New Day”, Pete
Seeger wisely presents a programme that
is varied in mood and material. Negro
spirituals and work songs, a Spanish Civil
War song, a Quaker hymn, a sea chanty,
a street-song from Ireland and one from
the West Indies are all sung with equal
conviction and the apparent ease of the
veteran performer. Seeger’s obviously en-
thusiastic audience occasionally joins in
the choruses so effectively as to sound
rehearsed.
For a man of sixty-four, Nelson Eddy
is in surprisingly good voice; his singing
has as much vigor and spurious feeling
as it did in the ’thirties when he poured
out his heart to Jeanette MacDonald in
those ghastly Hollywood musical extrava-
ganzas. Mr Eddy is still “thrilling”
American and Australian matrons in
nightclub appearances with soprano Gale
Sherwood. “Of Girls I Sing” consists of
a dozen show tunes, the titles of which
are feminine names. The orchestral
accompaniment is suitably lush.
TOM PICKERING


BOOKS
A Haunted Primitive
By VIVIAN SMITH
The Poems of Shaw Neilson, edited with
an introduction by A. R. Chisholm. Angus
and Robertson. 305.; paperback 18s. 6d.
Neilson is a haunting and elusive figure.
The uneducated poet of the Wimmera
who has written some of the most delicate
poems in our literature appears at one
moment to be a genuine primitive, at
another as sophisticated and as conscious-
ly-unconsciously achieved a writer as
some of the French Symbolists.
The very welcome appearance of “The
Poems of Shaw Neilson”, admirably
edited and introduced by Professor A. R.
Chisholm, brings us face to face once
more with this paradox. That Neilson is
a superb lyricist in a handful of poems is
beyond doubt: he has “a way with words”
characteristic of the born poet; his best
work casts an authentic and unmis-
takable spell and enchantment:
Let your song be delicate
The skies declare
No war the eyes of lovers
Wake everywhere.
When old birds strangely-hearted strive
to sing
and young birds face the Great Adventur-
ing:
When manna from the Heaven-appointed
trees
bids us banquet on divinities:
When water-birds, half fearing each blue
thing
trace the blue heavens for the roving
spring . . .
To read Neilson in bulk is a deeply
rewarding and moving experience. One
has contact with a remarkable sensibility
and mind, with a spirit capable of the
most exceptional attentiveness to the
mysterious details of reality which form
the fabric of his verse. But his successes
are intermittent. His limitations have to
be faced.
Neilson uses only two or three shapes;
the bulk of his work consists of songs and
ballads. With this limited range goes an
abuse of repetitions and repeated stanzas
which frequently do not reinforce but
dissipate the total impact of individual
poems. Rhythmically Neilson is unadven-
turous; and his poorer poems suffuse the
book at times with a certain muffled
languor.
No one will question Neilson's delicacy
of ear: his poems never jar and they
rarely fail in tone. His weakness is rather
a certain visual smudging, a melodious
melting and merging. In his unsuccessful
poems his images neither focus nor fuse;
what we are left with is a mellifluous blur.
Professor Chisholm comments on Neil-
son's lack of sound constructive techni-
que and I think it is true that where Neil-
son's vision fails him he has hardly any
external strengths to fall back on. We are
left instead with rather stilted and
willed pieces like the “Sundowner”. But
Neilson has some constructive power.
“The Ballad of Remembrance” is an
astonishing performance.
Neilson is frequently described and dis-
cussed as a writer of timeless songs, but
a great deal more of the external world
gets into his poems than this description
might suggest. The world of nature of
course trees and water-birds, honey
and light; but also though less success-
fully— the contemporary world of pic-
ture-shows and blonde typists; poor pen-
sioners and the sick in the city. It is
fascinating to watch Neilson trying to
expand and develop sad too: his gift
was too absolute for him to be a success-
ful experimenter or manipulator of
modes, and when he tries to organise
ideas or consciously develop an argument
or sustain an image with variations
throughout the whole course of a poem
he frequently lapses into gentle jingle.
For all his unconscious sophistication
Neilson remains a primitive of genius.
One wonders if, paradoxically enough,
Neilson wasn't made or saved as a poet
by his lack of professional skills, his tech-
nical limitat : ons. There is a tendency to
prettify throughout his work, a genuine
primitive brightness and charm which
a smoother technique could empty of all
resonance and turn into something like
commercial art. As it is, his slight awk-
wardnesses grip into the mind: they be-
come a way of speaking intensely in-
dividual and real inflexions. Even in
poems that fail as totals there is usually
an amazing image, a felicitous phrase.
Technical limitations are limitations; but
better an honest awkwardness than a dis-
play of empty skills.
The names of Blake and Traherne are
frequently used in connection with Neil-
son; certainly he reminds one at times of
Davies and Clare; at others of Verlaine.
But I imagine that Neilson's greater in-
fluences and affinities were more popular
sources of inspiration. The beautiful
poem “The Sweetening of the Year”
has always seemed to me close to
the nursery rhyme “There was a man of
double deed - ’; and one poem at least,
“Green Lover”, reads somewhat like
Edward Lear. But there is always more
sentiment in Neilson than in traditional
rhymes and songs and surely it is signifi-
cant that he has a poem addressed to
Stephen Foster. Neilson at his sentimental
unhappiest reminds one of the Victorian
writers of album verses or the composers
of Victorian parlor songs:
The elder was a five years girl
With the blue eyes of the mother,
And younger by a year there ran
A flaxen-headed brother . . .
These two fell ill with a quick fever
’Twas in the red ripe weather
Kind neighbors came with flowers for
them
When they lay dead together.
Neilson is especially sentimental and
coy when he writes of young girls and
children; ("He sold himself to the
daisies”); the misty realms of fairy-land
and the “little creatures”. Like many
nature poets he reveals a strange em-
barrassment in front of human events
and facts; and the word that best charac-
terises him is the one Professor Chisholm
has chosen shyness. Shy of life, shy of
the harsh light, shy of noise, Neilson's is
the misty half-lit inner world of frail
emotions and fragile feelings and aware-
nesses. He is at his calmest, sweetest and
strongest in moments of rapt contempla-
tion of the external world: as in “The
Smoker Parrot”, “Native Companions
Dancing”, “The Crane is My Neighbor”,
“The Gentle Water Bird”, “May”; and in
his passive alertness to the mysterious as
in “The Orange Tree”, and the sheer
lyrical inwardness of the well - known
“Love's Coming” and “Song Be Deli-
cate”.
The following stanza has been quoted
by Judith Wright in a notable essay to
illustrate the subtlety and strangeness of
Neilson's perceptions and use of langu-
age:
How should a singer of the cold
Seeing strange holiness in air
In his blue famine seek to hold
Vainly your paradise of hair?
and it can serve to indicate another point
as well: The words “holy” and “divine”
occur frequently throughout Neilson's
poems and a sense of the sanctity of the
created world pervades all he writes.


Repeat performance
Ijy popular demand!
BELL ROCKETMEN
FLOWN TO AUSTRALIA BY QAHTfIS V-JET.
See the space age in action, as
the daring Bell Rocket Biers take
off and zoom through the air
with their Bell Rocket Belts,
developed by Bell Aerosystems
Company la Textron Co.l. The
Bell Roc ketmen can By to a
height of 60 feet, at 60 m.p.h.
AT THE SYDNEY
ROYAL
EASTER
SHOW
f
Sydney’s event of the year is on again—the spectacular Royal Easter Show!
This year, the accent is on youth, with many special attractions in the ring
events . . . massed displays by Boy Scouts and Police Boys’ Clubs, plus
specially imported attractions like the daring jet-propelled Bell Rocketmen,
and the Royal Papua and New Guinea Police Band. There’s a lady trick rider,
the new Animal Nursery, huge fireworks displays and a host of other sights.
See Australia’s rural wealth on display, the prize stock on parade, the sheep
shearing, wood chopping, new automobiles, houses, homewares, and a host
of other exhibits from Australia’s great secondary industries.
R.A.S. SHOWGROUNDS, 9th-20th APRIL-10 DAYS AND 8 NIGHTS
The Red Virgin
Simone Weil. Jacques Cabaud. Harvill.
535.
The line between saint and psychopath
can often appear as fine as the border
between genius and madness. Otherwise
there would be no need for the services
of a Devil’s Advocate. In his Simone
Weil biography Jacques Cabaud impar-
tially presents the case neither for nor
against, but has painstakingly collected
and meticulously recorded facts about
her with little comment and no judg-
ment of his own.
The reader must decide whether this
French philosopher who, at the age of
34, starved herself to death, was a mod-
ern Saint Joan or a misguided mystic.
There seems little doubt that in England
in 1943 she was deliberately inflicting
on herself a sacrificial immolation in
order to share in her countrymen’s fate,
because her offer to return to France
as a member of the Resistance had been
declined. She had once written, “Blessed
are they who suffer, in the flesh, the
suffering of the world itself in their
epoch.”
Yet it is typical of her mentality that
-she had also written against suicide and
that she apparently failed to see that she
was quite unsuited to the work of a
secret agent. Her striking appearance,
eccentric dress and physical clumsiness
would have attracted the Nazis’ attention
at once and so endangered her associates.
The author has obviously been guided
by Simone Weil’s own specifications for
the ideal biography: it should not divorce
the man from his work so that it becomes
“the life of a very little man who by some
miracle did great things”, but it should
take both life and work together as one.
Thus the book contains large slabs of
her own writing, so well-chosen and
assembled that her extraordinary intellec-
tual stature and the development of her
ideas—political, philosophical and meta-
physical—can be clearly followed. These
are supplemented by an index, notes,
photographs and a 20-page bibliography.
Simone Weil was remarkable even as
a child, reciting mathematical formulas
for fun. At the Ecole Normale where
she studied philosophy under Alain she
was soon known as the “Categorical
Imperative in Skirts” and later as the
“Red Virgin”. However, she was cured of
practical Communism in Spain during
the Civil War, finding little to choose
between either side.
As well as writing and teaching philo-
sophy, she deliberately sought out manual
work to see what it was like, and al-
though suffering from terrible migraines
and later from tuberculosis she drove
herself unmercifully. She slept and ate
little, had no interest in money she
gave it away none in grooming or
dress and was afraid of personal attach-
ment (“in our love we are cannibals”).
She seemed sensitive to others only in
the collective sense, rarely as individuals.
Yet her main argument against Com-
munism was its sacrifice of the individual
to the collective, and in her later years
she formed a friendship with Simone
Deitz (who is still alive).
Born of agnostic Jewish parents, Sim-
one Weil was attracted to the Christian
idea and almost entered the Roman
Catholic Church, hesitating only because
she could not accept every one of its
teachings without question. “The tremen-
dous greatness of Christianity,” she said,
“comes from the fact that it does not
seek a supernatural remedy against suf-
fering, but a supernatural use of suffer-
ing."—“Malheur' is necessary so that
“the human creature may un-create
itself” .
She began to have visionary experi-
ences and describes how she had broken
out of the “egg of the world” and how
she “called forth Christ in person” and
of her “mystical marriage”, but it is diffi-
cult to assess how much of this account
is to be taken literally, as Cabaud points
out, and how much is “affabulation”. Yet
whatever else remains in doubt, her abso-
lute honesty and sincerity in all things is
above question.
MARIA WOLKOWSKY
Character Study
It was raining.
Even the nonchalant were being forced
To wait in portals: they could go forth,
Of course, at the price of indignity.
The man in question did not seem to
mind
Waiting. He had just stopped, and there
it was.
He was gazing at the sombre day,
The traffic, and the irritable wet
populace.
His elderly face had lost its flesh.
Had become hard, like a deep-sea fish.
“Ah”, I thought, “Death is in his mind;
He knows his body is prepared.”
Yet his head swung professionally
At the passing of young girls.
TIM BASS


Better
tape-recording
automatically!
with the new SONY 0-MATIC TC 357-4
With the SONY-O-MATIC (just
released) anyone can make per-
fect recordings. No fiddling with
sound-peaks any more, the auto-
matic recording level control
takes care of that. Not just by
crudely cutting off the excess
sound, but by modifying it, so
that the character of the sound
is kept unchanged • • No fid-
dling with tape either. The fuily
automatic self - threading reel
does all the work for you • •
Far more economical use of
your tape • * 4 tracks and 7"
reels give 13 hours' playing time
• • Further advantages: 3 Speeds,
P.A. System, Monitor Speaker,
Instant Stop. And such High
Fidelity that it makes ocher Hi-
Fi sound flat in 'comparison.
PRICE ONLY 95 GNS.
&
(^a
Sk
SONY
RESEARCH MAKES
THE DIFFERENCE
AVAILABLE FROM UP-TO-DATE RETAILERS.
DISTR JACOBY, MITCHELL & CO. PTY LTD., SYDNEY
I
READING IS THE KEY TO
YOUR FUTURE
The EDUCATIONAL READING CENTRE can solve your
reading problems.
Faster READING SPEED, better COMPREHENSION,
improved MEMORY—the results of this unique training
programme. The training programme may be under-
taken in our classrooms or in your own home, as
you so desire. Increased knowledge and assurance
of success will be your reward. What's more the
course is open to all, businessmen, housewives,
siudents and YOU.
POST THIS COUPON NOW
Please send me further details regarding this
unique programme.
NAME
ADDRESS
OCCUPATION
EDUCATIONAL READING CENTRE
65 QUEENS ROAD, MELBOURNE. 51 1555
Monkeys and Men
The Concept of Race. Edited by Ashley
Montagu. Free Press of Glencoe. 68s. 3d.
Worlds Without End. N. J. Berrill. Mac-
millan, NY. 595. 6d.
“Descended from the apes! My dear, we
will hope it is not true. But if it is, let
us pray that it may not become generally
known.” This, reputedly, was the re-
action of the wife of the Canon of Wor-
cester Cathedral when the theory of evo-
lution was first announced. The theories
put forward in “The Concept of Race”
are likely to spark a similarly indignant
reaction in some of the older anthropolo-
gists, to say nothing of the racists. Its
editor, Ashley Montagu, has already in-
volved himself in controversies with “The
Natural Superiority of Women” and a
book about dolphins; the present work
should also generate lively debate.
Thinking people have long recognised
that there is no scientific basis for the
doctrine of superior and inferior races,
although the subject is still fiercely argued
at the social level. Proceeding from recent
researches in genetic theory and related
fields, the ten distinguished scientists
whose findings have been assembled here
go one step further with their belief that
the entire concept of race is biologically
and anthropologically unsound.
It was at the height of a period of
nationalist and imperialist expansion that
the anthropologists created the race
“omelet” by averaging the characteristics
of given geographical groups, giving the
resultant taxonomy a completely errone-
ous base. To paraphrase Dr Montagu
(who has been arguing towards this con-
clusion for twenty years), the differences
between groups are outweighed by the
similarities and these similarities should
serve as a foundation for a new world
order rather than the differences be used
as an excuse for the enslavement or ex-
ploitation of one race by another.
Dr Loring Brace, in his essay, exam-
ines the causes of skin color, hair texture,
face formation and bone construction,
finding the variations to be largely due to
long-continued confinement within set
geographical limits. Dr Jean Hiernaux
underscores these findings with an exam-
ination of the uselessness of race as a
classificatory device. Further evidence to
support the theory is presented by Drs
Frank Livingstone, Robert Anderson,
Lancelot Hogben, Nigel Barricot, Paul
Ehrlich, Richard Holm and S. L. Wash-
burn. Their unanimity is probably indica-
tive of future developments; although it
is possible that these anthropologists,
motivated by humane sentiments, are
moving on to assertions beyond the evi-
dence. Whether “scientifically” proven or
not, the discussion is pertinent and pro-
vocative and the inhumanity that has
been practised in the name of race makes
one hope that the term will eventually be
abandoned as advocated.
When ten writers are turned loose on
the same subject, a certain amount of
repetition is unavoidable and this, along
with the specialised terminology, makes
the going heavy for the layman.
In introducing exobiology the
science of life “out there” —to the
general reader, Professor Berrill adopts
an entertaining manner but he, too, has
some important messages and his specu-
lations are never incompatible with the
scientific facts. He explains the problems
of interplanetary and intergalactic ex-
ploration in a way that is as realistic as it
is imaginative and, in the process, pro-
vides a wealth of background information
on the solar system, the galaxies, time,
and the nature of life itself. Chapters on
the unique roles of water and gravity are
particularly good. A vein of dry humor
runs through Dr BerrilFs prose and his
book is further lightened by quotes from
some of the better science fiction writers.
If man needed a reason (other than it
is there) for leaping into space, a good
one is provided by the fact that, within
several centuries, there will be standing
room only on earth if we don't destroy
ourselves in the meantime. However, the
author brings us sharply back to earth
with a few calculations (it would take
129,000 years to reach the nearest star at
a cost of $3,000,000 per man) and finally
decides that space travel, even in the most
distant future, will be confined to our
own apparently uninhabitable planetary
system. Due to what C. S. Lewis called
“God's Quarantine Regulations”, it rather
looks as if we must accept our isolation
even if there is intelligent life on other
worlds and, in the light of Dr BerrilFs
conclusions, one feels we would do better
to concentrate on improving what is pro-
bably the only speck of the universe we
will ever know.
TOM PICKERING
Judicial Whoredom
The Great Abductors/ Judge Gerald Spar-
row. John Long. 265. 6d.
A Man of Quality. A biography of the Hon.
Mr Justice Cassels. lain Adamson.
Frederick Muller/ 38s. 6d.
Gerald Sparrow is a former judge.
After being a lawyer for nearly thirty
years he retired from the profession in
1954 remarking that he preferred “simple
whoredom to the complicated and expen-
sive prostitution of talent which is the
modern legal profession”. So saying he
became a professional writer and in the
last decade has published over a score of
volumes including works under the heads
of travel, biography, humor and crime.
“The Great Abductors” belongs to the
latter category and is one of a series by
him which includes “The Great Swind-
lers”, “The Great Impostors”, and “The


CHEVRON HOTEL’S
GOLDEN GRILL
Compliments your good taste
In an atmosphere of gracious
living, the food, cellar and service
are supreme. Whether in a hurry
or with time to tarry, the service
keeps pace with your wishes. A
snack, a sumptuous repast, a cof-
fee, an aperitif, all are available
from morn till midnight. The
menu is varied, reasonable in cost,
and handsomely presented. The
wine list is recognised as one of
the most comprehensive in Aus-
tralia. In the evening Alexander
Grant’s ensemble provides plea-
sant background music and invites
your personal request. The inex-
pensive luxury of the GOLDEN
GRILL is yours all day, every
day.
For table reservations phone 35.0433
CHEVRON HOTEL
MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY.
CHEV/19988
LEARN TO WRITE
FOR A SPARE-TIME
INCOME!
Interested in writing as a spare-time
occupation? Then a Stott Literary
Course will develop your talent, and
provide you with a satisfying and
creative interest which can bring you
profits! There is a steady demand,
both in Australia and overseas, for
well-written work, and Stott’s Home-
Study Courses will teach you how to
write stories, articles, TV and radio
scripts that sell.
Stott’-s provide interesting practical
Home - Study instruction of the
highest standard and you will study
under the guidance of expert in-
structors.
nmnniitil
m
15!) Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 14!) Castlereagh
Street, Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
45 Gilles Street. Adelaide; 1130 Hay Street,
Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
NAME
ADDRESS
Age 8.1165
No representative will call following your
inquiry.
Great Forgers”. The author deals
breezily with cases of abduction from
the seventeenth century to the present
day including the Eichmann kidnapping.
According to the dust jacket Sparrow
“has some new things to say about the
tragedy of the Lindberg kidnapping”. If
he has he keeps them to himself. Instead
we are treated to such profundities as
“... the entire affair was conducted under
the grim shadow of tragedy, so that,
looking back, one knows that, for some
perverse reason, Fate had decided to
strike this evil blow at an American and
his young and lovely bride”.
Sir James Cassels is a former pro-
fessional writer—a Fleet Street journa-
list —who became a successful lawyer.
He enjoys a special niche in legal history
as the last octogenarian judge England
will ever have, the compulsory retiring
age now being fixed at seventy-five. He
was one of the greatest criminal advo-
cates of this century—almost the only
barrister ever to discomfort Sir Bernard
Spilsbury in the witness box. For
some years he was a Conservative
MP with what his biographer calls
“rather tribal views on politics”. His
views on legal matters were analogous.
He was not in favor of change in the
structure of the English legal system and
urged members of the Bar to stand firm
against reformers. Whilst others were
urging sympathetic treatment for homo-
sexual offenders he was declaring “This
type of offence seems like a disease
sweeping the country. Tt must be
stamped out”. In private life he was
genial, kindly, humorous and papular
with his colleagues. This biography is
principally of interest for its accounts
of famous cases in which he was in-
volved either as a barrister or judge.
Unfortunately it is probable that many of
them, like those of the matricide Sydney
Fox and the multiple child murderer
Straffen. will be familiar to most readers
already.
GORDON HAWKINS
The Tycoon Myth
The Banker. Leslie Waller. Cassell. 335. 6d.
Leslie Waller's “The Banker"’ is about
the myth that has been created around
big business rather than about big busi-
ness itself. The business cycle has en-
joyed a vogue among second string
American writers for some years, reach-
ing a quantitative peak in the “Execu-
tive Suite” and “Patterns” era; most of
the more glamorous businesses (with
advertising still the most favored) have
suffered portrayal as arenas in which
modern man becomes the gladiator
working out his primeval passions at the
expense of other human beings. Even
an amateur psychologist could give half
a dozen good reasons why this sort of
escapist stuff goes over well in this
sedentary age.
All the big business books have much
in common, but probably the most im-
portant is that they tend to foster the
curious misconcepfion that a person is
formed by what he is—factory execu-
tive, stockbroker, advertising man —•
rather than the other way about.
Until now, bankers have not had a
great deal of this once - over - lightly
treatment, though in fairness it must be
admitted that they provide as good
material as most. Woods Palmer is a
modern American banker, a millionaire
come out of the west following the sale
of his family's bank in Chicago to take
a top position in a leading New York
bank. He begins his new career as an
innocent, but learns fast that banking
has come a long way since the Medicis
first hung out their three balls.
Anyone retaining a soft spot for “The
Hucksters", Frederic Wakeman’s early
definite work on advertising, will recog-
nise Palmer as “sincere"’, in the sense
that having recognised the atmosphere
in which he is to operate he makes a
point of out-dissembling everyone else.
Other old friends from stock are here
too-—there is Lane Burckhardt, the old,
wise, omnipotent tycoon; there is Mac
Burns, operator and political Mr Fixit
and we are left in little doubt that if his
collar and cuffs are immaculate his neck
and wrists are probably dirty; there is
Virginia with whom Palmer becomes
romantically involved (to his credit, he
believes it is real), and there is the wife
whose coldness provides his excuse.
The book is almost classically con-
structed for readability by the greatest
number of people. A little sex on the
side makes bankers seem very human
and doubtless helps with the reader’s
sense of identification. With consider-
able skill Waller covers conversationally
an incredible variety of topics—science-
fiction, politics, the mechanics of high
finance, the applications of atomic power
in some technical detail, Freudian psy-
chology—with no noticeable diminution
of readability or pace. It is difficult not
to admire his abilities as a storyteller.
NOEL BUCKLEY
Cry Out No Longer
(Ungaretti: Non gridate pin)
Stop murdering the fallen.
Be still; cry out no longer
If you really want to hear them,
If you hope not to perish.
Theirs is the faintest murmur,
They make no more disturbance
Than the springing up of grasses,
Content where no man passes.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Another Plug for Bonds
The Commonwealth Government
is likely to be a major bene-
ficiary of the Reserve Bank’s
release of £24 million from the trading
banks’ Statutory Reserve Deposits
this week.
Reduction in the SRD ratio of
liquid assets to deposits (down from
15.8 p.c. to 14.8 p.c.) is to give some
liquidity relief to the trading banks
at a time when company tax payments
are due and a new Commonwealth
loan is to be raised.
Obviously both these requests for
money by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment will place a strain on an economy
which is digesting the effects of reduced
capital inflow, a trade deficit, a drought
and higher interest rates. Already the
investing public is being asked to pro-
vide alternative finance for overseas
companies as well as being required to
face up to substantial new share issues
from publicly listed companies.
There won’t be enough local money
to go round, so it is no surprise that
the Reserve Bank governor, Dr H. C.
Coombs, stated that the SRD release
did not represent an easing of current
official policy of monetary restraint.
In fact, he warned that there would be
an unusually severe impact on the
liquidity of both the banks and the
public in the next few months.
The Treasury could be excused for
having its own interests at heart, fol-
lowing reports that some banks might
be forced to sell large quantities of
government securities in the next few
months to ease their liquidity prob-
lems.
Also, there was talk around the
money market last week that the
announcement of the April Common-
wealth loan had been delayed because
of uncertainties over the proposed
Euro-dollar loan. Norway’s approach
for a 40 million Euro-dollar loan was
scaled down to 30 million, and Euro-
pean sources claim that Australia, too,
may not obtain as much as she would
like.
If the overseas loan is scaled down
or falls through, naturally the Treasury
will want to squeeze a little more out
of the local market. Interest rates
already have been raised very carefully
to an attractive level for the bond in-
vestor, and the Government needs to
gain every advantage out of the latest
loan because of its heavy defence com-
mitments. Its degree of success is
likely to influence Budget plans for
higher taxation.
It is evident that the Reserve Bank
is very much in tune with money
market capabilities at the moment and
its technique with the interest rate
weapon has become very effective. By
making it more expensive to borrow
but more attractive to invest in Com-
monwealth bonds, it is using the
thumb-screw as well as the carrot.
Then, by releasing SRD pressure on
J. R. MARSHALL
NZ Minister for Trade.
the banks at a time when liquidity
demands are likely to force a sale of
bonds, a further contribution is made
to loan raising.
NZ’s Freer Imports
VTew Zealand’s removal of 90 items
1 from import controls caused no
breathless rush by Australian ex-
porters. Most of the items exempted
had not been under severe control.
Two-thirds of New Zealand’s imports
are still under control.
Imports of motor vehicles, a third
of which come from Australia, are still
under import licensing control, as are
automotive spare parts.
Trade officials say that the best
prospect for improved trade will come
from New Zealand’s abolition of its
old system of giving priority under the
licensing system to traditional sup-
pliers. Australian dried fruits ex-
porters, however, who qualified for
priority under the old system, could
meet stiffer competition.
Those looking for new opportunities
among the items released from control
may be a little dismayed when they
run their eye over “shepherd’s crooks”
and “collar studs”. A salesman would
have a tough job reviving a trend in
collar studs.
There are improved quotas for
drugs. and medicinal preparations
which could be of some interest to
drug makers. But relaxation of con-
trols on cotton textile piecegoods is
unlikely to be of much benefit because
Australia is not heavily involved in
this market.
Suppliers of agricultural machinery,
tractors and trucks expect to gain some
increase in the market where UK items
are not competitive.
Method Actors Needed
Stripped of its diplomatic language,
President Johnson’s reply to Sir
Robert Menzies’ plea on dollar invest-
ment apparently indicates that the US
does not believe Australia will suffer
from the recent restrictions on dollar
investment. However, in specific cases
of hardship like when you’re really
suffering, man sympathetic con-
sideration will be given, according to
US reports.
Perhaps Mr Holt’s projected visit to
Washington will allow something con-
crete to emerge from the refined and
basically unrevealing courtesies of the
exchange of letters.
One thing is certain. America does
not regard Australia as one of the
“have not” underdeveloped countries
which qualify for exemption from the
latest dollar restraints. And her
political climate is stable enough to
cause no worry to the State Depart-
ment.


. ...J
■
-
I*2 *>
'•r- \
.
g|—
He wants a new car — urgently!
Being a professional man he must have an efficient,
good-looking car. He doesn’t want to pay ready cash.
His answer is to lease a car through General Credits.
General Credits lay out the ready cash, he pays a
fixed monthly rental and, if used for business,
payments up to 100% are allowable as a tax deduction.
You want a new car too?
Well ask General Credits about their Leasing Plan.
Contact the nearest General Credits office or ask any branch
of The C.B.A. (The Commercial Bank of Australia Ltd.
owns 42% of the shares in General Credits Ploldings Ltd.)
w
If you need finance —you need. ..
GENERAL CREDITS
277 William St., Melbourne. 60 0241 • 396 Pitt St. f Sydney. 61 8581
Branches throughout Australia
6815
The best that could be said about
the situation is that the US will keep
the Australian position under review
on the grounds that, as Australia is a
valuable ally, her effectiveness would
be reduced if the economy suffered a
severe setback. But specific arguments
must be advanced.
There seems no direct method of
getting round the Interest Equalisation
Tax and the restraint on US bank
loans. Yet already there is evidence
that companies which are developing
overseas raw material resources and
which are contributing dividend in-
come to the US balance of payments
could receive favorable consideration.
For example, it is claimed that internal
financing plus the raising of European
or foreign loans could help inter-
national corporations like American
Metal Climax to proceed with develop-
ment plans for its Mount Newman ore
project in Australia.
American Metal Climax has a good
record as a contributor of foreign
exchange to the US balance of pay-
ments (including dividends of 115-
million dollars last year). If the com-
pany succeeds in raising funds outside,,
both in Europe and Australia, it
apparently may be able to contribute
some of its own funds as long as it is
a net contributor to the balance of pay-
ments.
Looking at dollar restraints from
this distance, local Australian interests
loom large. But there were plenty of
other nations which squealed loudly
when US restrictions on dollar loans
and dollar investment were announced.
Washington was inundated with re-
quests for special treatment.
A fact which tends to be overlooked,
and which was mentioned here
previously, is that many US-con-
trolled organisations took steps to
increase their capital or loan funds
before the boom was lowered. To this
extent their expenditure budgets would
be covered at least a year ahead.
Reflecting these arrangements, the
dollar outflow in the few months up to
February, 1965, was at an alarming
rate.
Less reassuring to Australia is the
request to major US corporations to
improve their individual balance of
payments by at least 15 p.c. in 1965.
This factor, combined with other
deflationary influences, could cause
some problems by the end of the year.
As a Hollywood producer once said:
“Go away and suffer. When you come
back you’ll be a better actress!”
Maybe some of the world’s leaders
should brush up with a bit of method
acting to convince Washington of their
dollar needs all except le Grand
Charles, of course.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Capital Comforts for Farmers
No present pinching of the rural sector
A t every turn of the screw of monetary
policy questions are asked whether
this or that section of the community is
worthy economically, or at any rate
politically, speaking of exemption or
special treatment. Nobody has much of
a chance these days if he is in the in-
stalment credit industry. But the
Federal Treasurer is always prepared to
listen to a plea from the farmers, as he
did recently when charged in Parliament
to say whether the latest rise (to 7i p.c.)
in maximum bank overdraft rate would
apply to rural industry. He now has
the answer to this one pat—that the
banks can use their discretion as to what
they charge any borrower up to the ceil-
ing.
Talking in Melbourne recently, Keith
Campbell, Professor of Agricultural
Economics, made the point that there is
no reason why farmers should be ex-
empted from the workings of monetary
policy. “In a sense,” he stated, “one
could say that some of the pressures for
lower interest rates for farmers in earlier
generations represented the first gropings
in the direction of public assistance for
agriculture, but today Governments use
multifarious ways to assist agriculture
and there is now little justification for a
discriminatory subsidy in the form of
cheap credit to farmers except, perhaps,
where it is desired to assist beginning
farmers as a matter of public policy.”
Playing the political dice in these mat-
ters, where farming interests have to be
accommodated in national economic re-
quirements, demands as delicate a touch
as it ever did, despite the decline,,
secularly speaking, in rural industry's
relative contribution to the national pro-
duct and also to primary income genera-
tion, and despite the fact that both in
its demands for capital and increasing
mechanisation farming is getting more
like factory industry every day.
Looking inwards on the economy, the
dichotomy between rural and secondary
industry has become blurred. If the
rural sector is to lay claim to special
treatment in fiscal and monetary policy
it would have to put most store on its
superior contribution to overseas income.
Certainly the bulk of its produce is sold
to overseas customers, whereas locally
manufactured goods are mostly con-
sumed at home. Yet, as we are told al-
most every day, the official aim is to sell
increasing quantities of manufactured
goods in overseas markets. Even Mr
McEwen is especially keen on that. So
it can be taken that in the future, as in
the last few years, preferences in official
treatment of the two sectors will narrow.
There seems little doubt that rural in-
dustry is becoming increasingly sensitive
to changes in monetary policy in some
rough proportion to its increasing reli-
ance on outside sources of credit. This
reliance has increased in step with the
growing demands for capital by farmers
as their operations have become more
capital-intensive. Nobody has put a pre-
cise figure on it. Probably about three-
fifths of the capital used by rural indus-
try is found by farmers from their own
resources, that is, generated internally
from profits. Of course, the proportion
fluctuates from year to year, and from
PROFESSOR K. O. CAMPBELL
month to month in any one year. Going
on the virtually uninterrupted rise in
outstanding rural credit, it would seem
to be considerably less than the indus-
try’s self-financed proportion of capital
fifteen years ago.
Statistically, this is a subject wide open
for more intensive research. No more
than a rough calculation of overall out-
standing rural credit can be made.
Taking certain estimates and extrapo-
lating figures from particular sources
of such credits, the total loaned from
identifiable institutional sources seems to
have risen from £227 million in 1950
to £575-600 million at the present time.
Needless to say, not all by any means
of this huge volume of debt is sensitive
to changes in monetary policy, if only
for the fact that it ranges from short-
term or more sensitive types of credit at
one end of the scale to long-term and
less sensitive types of finance at the
other. Nor should the amounts shown
be taken as overall totals of rural credit.
Unidentifiable amounts are undoubtedly
very large, for instance as supplied by
private lenders operating through solici-
tors, merchants and storekeepers, farm-
ers’ co-operatives and fringe institutions,
which, in particular, have contributed
substantial amounts of HP finance to
farmers in recent years.
Probably the most sensitive element,
however, is that contributed by the
major trading banks and this is also the
biggest source. Including loans by the
Rural Credits Department of the Reserve
Bank, credit from the major trading
banks accounts for £257 million, or
45-47 p.c., of the present total loaned by
private and Government institutions. In
1950 they loaned £llß million, or 52
p.c. of the total. The effects of monetary
policy on this source of lending are seen
clearly in their big reductions in loans to
rural borrowers in 1956-57 and again in
1960-61. In these two periods the effect
of a contraction in bank lending on
rural liquidity was probably greater than
it would be now, given equivalent mea-
sures of restraint, if only because the
banks’ proportion of total institutional
lending to rural industry was consider-
ably higher than it is today. In 1957
it was as high as 57 p.c.
Quite apart from any discriminatory
favors the banks may, traditionally or
otherwise, indulge towards rural indus-
try, two other possible influences in par-
ticular would also be working now to
mitigate the effect of monetary policy on
bank loans to rural industry. One would
be the generally flush state of liquidity in
this sector as a result of the last two
bumper years of high production and
prices for rural products. Farm income
in the last three years has risen from
£453 million in 1961-62 to £540 million
(1962-63) and £7ll million in 1963-64.
Despite the drop in wool prices, the
Bureau of Agricultural Economics ex-
pects it to fall by only £6 million or
so for the current year, that is, to £705
million. In these flush circumstances,
one would expect rural industry's overall
recourse to credit, at any rate short-term
lending, to be less than urgent, that it
would be possible for farmers to finance
more of their capital needs from profits.
It would also be expected that, opera-
ting in its own parlor so to speak, the
Rural Credits Department of the Reserve
Bank would scrupulously abide by the
rulings of monetary policy enunciated


by its master and set an example to all
other credit agencies. Like the pastoral
companies, this department furnishes
mainly short-term credit to rural indus-
try. The seasonal swings in its advances
are much wider than those of the pas-
toral companies, so it is somewhat diffi-
cult to say if at any time it is conform-
ing.
A second possible influence softening
the current impact of monetary policy on
farmers would be the strong position of
the second biggest lender (mainly of
short-term finance) to the rural sector,
that is, the pastoral companies, who are
currently providing about 21 p.c., or
some £lls million, of the lending to rural
industry. The principal companies are
Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort, Dalgety
and NZ Loan, Winchcombe Carson and
Australian Mercantile Land. In 1950
the pastoral companies provided £33 mil-
lion. or only 15 p.c. Again, the last
few record rural years have enhanced
the strength of these companies. So,
although they themselves now borrow
substantially from the trading banks (at
June 30, 1964, they owed £24.8 million
to the banks) inter alia for on-lending to
rural industry, mainly clients whose pro-
duce they handle, and monetary policy
could pinch by that route, it would
seemingly have only a very marginal
effect in present circumstances.
In the last credit squeeze, monetary
policy took far longer to affect rural
loans of the pastoral companies than it
did rural advances of the trading banks.
In the end, though, it pinched quite
hard on them by two routes; one, their
own weakened finances resulting from
low prices by primary products and two,
the squeeze put on the pastoral com-
panies’ own borrowings from the trading
banks. In the event, lending by pastoral
companies fell by £10.4 million in the
first half of 1961-62. Admittedly, some
of this reflected a switch by rural bor-
rowers to the new Commonwealth De-
velopment Bank, which made £lO mil-
lion of new rural loans in 1961-62, its
second full year of operation. Indeed
pastoral company advances were destined
to fall further in the second half of
1961-62, when the term lending fund
of the trading banks came into opera-
tion and offered a new avenue for rural
lending. (Albeit of the longer-term
variety in which neither trading banks in
their ordinary operations or the pastoral
companies specialise.)
The appearance of the Commonwealth
Development Bank and the term lending
fund on the scene since the last credit
squeeze would certainly seem to
strengthen the hand of the authorities in
influencing the level of lending to the
rural sector. In themselves, though,
Joans from these two sources are rela-
tively small compared with those of the
trading banks and the pastoral companies
and, being mostly for medium and long
terms, are far less sensitive to qualita-
tive monetary restriction. The main in-
fluence of monetary policy on short-term
credit must still be exerted through the
trading banks and the pastoral com-
panies. There is no reason to suggest
that either source of credit is pinching
the farmers or that capital-wise this sec-
tor is anything but comfortable at the
moment.
CROESUS
Sniffing the Economic Wind
On the scent of Malaysian industry
Tt has long since dawned on intelligent
Australians that events in South-
East Asia hold the key to the destiny
of this country. Anything that throws
light on the scene there, politically,
economically or otherwise, is therefore
to be welcomed here, particularly when
it bears on the possibilities for increasing
stability in the area. Stability being
fundamentally related to economic
prosperity and its close associate social
welfare, an understanding of economic
trends and the outlook for the standard
of living in South-East Asia is as much
to be sought after as information on
defence prospects. Admittedly the
general public is
more likely to take
a livelier interest in
the latter.
A keen awareness
of the need for
cementing closer
commercial ties with
South - East Asian
countries has been
shown both by Gov-
ernment and busi-
ness in Australia.
We can point to the
Colombo Plan and
trade missions as
well as direct com-
mercial dealings on
the trade and invest-
ment sides, particu-
larly in Malaysia.
These have had a
measure of success
but have to a great
extent been handi-
capped by, among other things, the
paucity of information on the economic
side. The inadequacy of economic litera-
ture on the area is proverbial. Statistically
the area is a backwater.
Professor E. L. Wheelwright, who likes
pathfinding in economic fields (and is
well equipped for it, as he has shown in
his pioneer work among Australian
companies and overseas investment), has
stepped intrepidly into this economic
wilderness and produced, not without
agonising pains, a rewarding if somewhat
tentative analysis of industrialisation in
E. L, WHEELWRIGHT
Malaysia, published recently by Mel-
bourne University Press at 455. It goes
some way in filling a serious gap in our
knowledge of the area, even if it suffers
from the very fact that it was written
on information obtained largely before
Malaysia itself was formed.
What Wheelwright was anxious to
find, or at least must have been reduced
to seek, in justification of the excursion
was where Malaysia looks like heading
in industrialisation and how fast. He
has come up with some useful answers
and suggestions, which at any rate should
be more than useful to the authorities
and people in Malaysia. The book is
also worthy of atten-
tion wider afield, not
only because it is an
excellent conspectus
of the industrial
situation and possi-
bilities but because
it is a fine piece of
economic analysis in
itself. Even if he
was handicapped by
the dearth of up-to-
date or compre-
hensive statistics and
had to resort to
much of what he
calls “sniffing the
economic atmo-
sphere” and the
critical examination
of a variety of plans
for industrialisation,
he has somehow
succeeded in pro-
ducing an intelligible picture.
As Wheelwright’s work was financed
under Australian auspices it could rea-
sonably have been expected to be angled
on Australia’s interests in Malaysia’s in-
such as the possible
effects on our exports to the territory in
the event of higher tariffs being neces-
sary" to foster local industry. Australia
hardly gets a mention in the text, so one
has to draw one’s own conclusions.
The emergence of a protective tariff
structure in Malaysia could have re-
percussions on some Australian exports


Invest in
INTEREST
UP TO
%
FOR
5
YEARS
Applications for Debentures and Notes only accepted ea
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from:
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch.
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
A.G.C. House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
ASK THE 'WALES' FOR DETAILS
9.N.
of light industrial products to the area,
though such repercussions would be
small. Most of our exports of about
£33 million to Malaysia last year would
not be affected (such big items like flour,
preserved milk, butter, tallow, feeding
stuffs, fruit, frozen meat and skins, for
instance). Other important Australian
exports to the area (like motor cars and
parts, pulp and hard-board, metal manu-
factures, tinplate, and metals) look" to be
outside the range of prospective produc-
tion possibilities in Malaysia.
As to the pace of industrialisation in
a country whose economic progress has
in the past been based on tin and rub-
ber and trade in these two commodities,
Wheelwright not surprisingly sees the
vestiges of colonialism hanging heavily
on the wider industrial horizon. He sees
an apparent conflict in what he calls the
“rubber-tin” mentality, a legacy of
colonial days kept to the fore by power-
ful economic group interests which want
to keep labor cheap for the successful
exploitation of rubber and tin resources
and so avoid increases in the cost of
living resultant from tariffs required to
foster industry. Equally, the possibility
of alternative employment in industry
for labor would bid up wage levels.
Another block to industrialisation is
seen in the conflict of interests between
manufacturers and importers. Such a
conflict has kept the commercial atmos-
phere heavily charged in Australia for
an age. In Malaysia, Wheelwright sees
possibilities of this being resolved by
importing houses taking over the inland
distribution of locally manufactured
goods and for importers to assist in-
dustrial financing. Something has been
done in the former, but little in the
latter direction. He thinks both possi-
bilities should be deliberately fostered
and that the introduction of tariffs to
protect manufacturing industry in Singa-
pore, where industrialisation is thought
to have its best chances, could be supple-
mented by a system of rebates to pre-
serve its free port traditions.
Also reminiscent of our own scene,
Wheelwright has detected divergent ap-
proaches towards industrialisation in the
Treasury and Trade Departments in
Malaysia. But he thinks that all these
conflicts are secondary to the difficulties
posed for industrialisation by ethnic
problems, Malays predominating in the
country and Chinese in the towns and
cities. These ethnic problems are super-
imposed on the similar sort of differences
between rural interests and manufac-
turers that we have in Australia on the
tariff question. In Malaysia this situa-
tion is exacerbated by manufacturers be-
longing mainly to one ethnic group
(Chinese) and rural consumers (Malays)
to the other. Wheelwright thinks it is so
important that he draws the conclusion
that the main obstacles to an accelerated
programme of industrialisation are poli-
tical, social and ideological, not econo-
mic.
This may be putting it a bit strongly.
For all is not set on the economic front
by any means, if only for some of the
economic conflicts already mentioned.
There are others. More information
might have been given in the book on
raw materials available for industrialisa-
tion. That is one of its weaknesses as
a full study of the possibilities. Malaysia
is deficient, for instance, in coal and iron
ore.
Labor is dealt with very adequately.
There would seem on Wheelwright’s
showing to be no shortage. Indeed one
of the aims of industrialisation is given
as surplus labor absorption (currently the
more acute because of the effects of
Indonesia’s confrontation, especially in
Singapore). As with the ownership of
industry, the impression is that the
Chinese might dominate industrial labor
and this would have political repercus-
sions of the sort hinted at by the Prime
Minister of Singapore in his recent inter-
view with a “Sunday Telegraph” re-
porter in Sydney.
Training of industrial labor presents
a problem, though not as formidable a
one as that of providing management.
Wheelwright thinks the biggest single
scarce resource is the all-important
“managerial cadre” available to public
and private enterprise as well as Govern-
ment, and requires rapid attention. Here
is possibly something in which Australia
could lend a hand.
Always out after the socialist angle
(the present writer is not necessarily cri-
tical of him for this, because that's the
way he sees things), Wheelwright comes
to the conclusion that the Government
should go into industry in Malaysia. He
thinks, for example, that Singapore’s Eco-
nomic Development Board, “a powerful
instrument for carrying through an in-
dustrialisation programme”, which has,
like its counterpart in Malaya, so far
been used mainly as a vehicle preparing
the ground for private enterprise, should
now, as he puts it, “cross its most im-
portant frontier” and embark on public
enterprise as an integral part of its plan-
ning for industrialisation.
Although not seeing it as a panacea
but only as a method complementary to
private enterprise, Wheelwright rests his
main case for making public enterprise
an integral part of the industrialisation
programme on three grounds—that it
would offer a way out of the country’s
communal or ethnic dilemma; it is a re-
liable means of planning rational indus-
trial growth, and it would help to avert
the danger of a large part of new indus-
try coming under overseas ownership
and control. He says this approach has
not been considered in Malaysia, which
seems a little surprising.
Although Malaysia’s Finance Minister
flew to the United States last week to try
for a 25 million dollars loan, Wheel-
wright’s analysis doesn't suggest that
the country is short at least of potential
supplies of capital for industrial deve-
lopment. Its problem is nonetheless
complex on this score, because of the
huge capital outflow arising from foreign-
owned enterprises in the territory.


The Sound and the Fury
Record makers having a good spin
A two-way musical deal is going on in
Australia. For a few pounds or
shillings the public is buying gramophone
records in ever-increasing quantities and
clicking over the cash registers faster to
provide another music for the ears of
the record makers.
It has not always been like this. There
was a time, just after television came to
Australia, when record sales were hit
badly. It appears that only now are
they climbing back to pre-TV levels. The
reasons for the increase in record sales
are similar to those mentioned in an
earlier Bulletin story on musical in-
struments. Or at least the reasons given
by executives of record companies are
similar.
There is, they say, a swing away from
television now that the public has become
accustomed to it and is more selective
about viewing. The upsurge in popularity
of groups like the Beatles and the Roll-
ing Stones has also helped. There is
also a growing interest in more middle-
of-the-road and classical music. Con-
temporary tensions and everyday stresses
and strains were also mentioned as aids
in boosting sales.
The Australian record scene is slowly
but surely changing. By far the greater
proportion of our records are “import-
ed”. In other words, overseas artists by
far outweigh the locals. Yet the locals
are picking up and one company fore-
cast that in ten years, if Australia’s
recording talent continues and grows as
it is at present, overseas artists will face
stiff competition.
The most popular types of recordings
are the 45 r.p.m. single play and the 33J
r.p.m. long play. Production of these
two types has always been roughly level.
In 1963-64 long plays took a jump
ahead, for that year saw 3,885,000
single play and 4,076,000 long play re-
cords manufactured. For the first six
months of the current financial year the
figures were: single play, 2,092,000; long
play, 2,532,000.
It may not be completely true to say
this is a clear indication that long play
record production is pulling right away
from single play, since the six-monthly
figure includes December production
which is naturally high to cope with
heavy Christmas demand. A trend to-
ward the long play record, however, is
clearly being established.
Accompanying the production of re-
cords is phonograph production, which
has practically doubled in four years. In
1960-61, 24,200 phonographs were pro-
duced and in 1963-64 output stood
at 45,200. The Bulletin also made
mention of this industry in an earlier
story.
There is great competition in the
record industry both for sales and artists.
Since people buy a record not on the
label but on the artist, there is constant
promotion of well-known recording stars
and a never-ending search for new faces.
RCA of Australia Pty Ltd has, as its
biggest name, Elvis Presley. He is un-
doubtedly the company’s greatest money
spinner. Also on RCA’s list are Harry
Belafonte, Perry Como, Julie Andrews,
Leontyne Price and, on the orchestral
side, The Boston Symphony Orchestra
and the Boston Pops. RCA markets
under three labels —RCA, Camden and-
Victrola.
An executive of RCA’s record division
told The Bulletin the record industry
in NSW took nearly two years to recover
sales after the introduction of television.
“We still feel the impact of television
even now,” he said. “When stations
open up in country areas sales definitely
fall back, but they eventually come good
again.
“Elvis Presley is our biggest single
recording star. If we don’t sell 10,000
of his new recordings when they are re-
leased then we consider it a flop. There
is a continuing demand for his records
like “Blue Hawaii” and “GI Blues”.
Local artists’ sales are increasing. In-
cluded in our list are Digger Revell,
Johnny Devlin and the Midnighters.
“In the beginning it was very difficult
to sell local stars on the Australian mar-
ket. It was even harder to sell them in
the States other than those where they
worked and were known. In this respect
television has been a big help, with
national shows such as Bandstand keep-
ing them before the public. Their tours
interstate also promote sales.”
The executive said that in NSW it
would shortly become very difficult to
sell monaural versions 'of specialised
(usually classical) recordings. “Particu-
larly with record sets (say a collection of
records which reproduces an opera such
as ‘Carmen’) people are buying more and
more stereophonic records. In popular
records, however, there is a much greater
percentage of monaural records sold.”
Prominent in the world field of record-
ings is EMI, which lays claim to being
the biggest recording company in the
world. Its associate company, EMI
(Australia) Ltd, markets under the labels
HMV, Columbia, Capitol, Parlophone,
Decca, London, MGM, Disneyland and
Liberty, to name a few. Included in its
extensive range of recording artists are
the Beatles, the Rolling Stones, Cilia
Black, Frank Ifield, Mantovani, Benja-
min Britten, Shirley Bassey, the Roger
Wagner Chorale, Maria Callas, Joan
Sutherland, Julius Katchen and idmundo
Ros.
An executive of EMI (Australia) said
musical tastes in Australia varied from
State to State. “In Queensland, for in-
stance, there is a lesser demand for clas-
sics than in other States. But NSW and
Victoria are the biggest markets for this
type of music. In Queensland the
Beatles enjoy least popularity; this is
compensated for by a big interest in
country and western music.
“NSW and Victoria are the biggest
record buyers on a per capita basis.


HOOKER
FINANCE
COMPANY
LIMITED
DEBENTURE STOCK
?7
wo
o
LONG TERM
8% sor 10 yrs. 7% . ,
‘7Vz% . . 4 yrs. 6% . .
SHORT TERM
si/ 2 % 12 mths. 43/ 4 %
Interest payable quarterly
3 yrs.
2 yrs.
6 mths.
HOW TO INVEST
Applications may only be accepted on the
printed forms attached to and included in
the Prospectus and available from:
Any branch Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia.
Any member of a recognised stock exchange.
The Underwriting brokers: Ralph W. King & Yuill
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange Limited),
20 O’Connell Street, Sydney, or their branches.
Hooker Finance Company Limited, Angel House, 2-18
Ash Street, Sydney, and interstate offices.
"Trustees for the Debenture Holders:
Bums Philp Trust Company Limited.
82565
The popularity of recorded music has
been increasing steadily, due partly to the
English influence. Because of this English
influence the popularity of the American
recording artists has suffered.
“The greater proportion of record
sales generally is made by American
artists, but the English share is growing.
For a period the ‘Liverpool Sound’
adversely affected local Australian artists’
sales, although in recent months we find
that the Australians have successfully
adapted themselves to the new sound and
are now again participating in the ‘hit
chart’ listings.”
Another well-known recording com-
pany is Philips. It puts out records
under Philips, Mercury, DGG (Deutsche
Gramophon Gesellschaft), Polydor and
Riverside in Australia. Name artists in-
clude Dusty Springfield, Thelonious
Monk, the Swingle Singers, the
Oistrakhs, von Karajan and the Berlin
Philharmonic Orchestra.
An executive of Philips said the Aus-
tralian recording industry, both techni-
cally and in the quality of its artists,
was comparable with the best the world
had to offer. “We have to maintain a
high standard because we have such a
small population. If we can’t offer com-
parable quality, overseas artists would
have the whole market.
“If recording companies don’t pro-
mote and sell local talent, then the in-
dustry is falling short of its requirements.
“The trade is encouraging Australian
artists. ' Factors like television, club
entertainment and so on are helping local
stars tremendously.
“While we have such a small popu-
lation it is a long road. While local
talent Tacks the facilities to get experience
it is very hard to become an all-round
showman like, for instance, Danny
Kaye, who worked the entertainment
camps and came up the hard way. In
Australia you just can’t do that.”
A fairly big export trade in Australian
records has been developed, one of the
biggest markets being in the East. How-
ever, record “piracy” is worrying the
industry. The Philips’ executive said:
“In Hong Kong particularly, and in
other Eastern countries, some people
have the happy knack of combining
tracks from a number of different re-
cords and selling them as their own
work. This, of course, infringes copy-
rights and affects our sales. I think
there will shortly be a crackdown on
these pirates and the practice will be
stamped out.”
Mr N. C. Smith, the manager of
Electronic Industries’ record division
throughout Australia, said the industry
had picked up substantially over the last
two or three years. “It is now more
buoyant than it has been since the
introduction of television. Before that
it was doing extremely well. Now that
the novelties of television have worn off
the swing is back to records.” The com-
pany presses and distributes records un-
der the Astor label and for the overseas
companies of Pye, Reprise, Colpix (an
offshoot of Columbia Pictures), Van-
guard, Crown, Verve, Hifirecord,
Somerset and Redbird.
“Where sales are not expected to be
particularly high we will import a press-
ing, but usually we do the job ourselves.
There's more profit in this, quite apart
from the fact that we can avoid import
duties and freight, etc. I feel the pro-
duction here is as good as any overseas
—we use the same equipment.”
Mr Smith could see no reason why
the present rate of increase in the market
should not continue. “Apart from the
fact that teenagers have more to spend
these days, there has been a swing to
radio which has also boosted record
sales in their turn. Radios are also
cheaper now, with the transistor, so our
potential record buying population is
widened. Record players, especially the
portable, can be bought at reasonable
prices too, thus directly affecting record
sales. I don't think the introduction of
stereo has made all that much difference,
as most purchasers of a set have gradu-
ated from mono, so an extra consumer
does not appear on the 'scene.”


IT’S FOR YOU!
n invitation to earn more on your money!
M
wm.
■ INTEREST ■
TERM DEPOSITS
• For any term
12 to 24 months . . . 4V2 % p-a.
• For any term
3 months & less than 12 months . • 414 % p.a«
Rates for deposits of £50,000 and over for 30 days to 3 months available on application.
Apply at any branch of the C.B.A. throughout Australia
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
• ESTABLISHED 1866 • ASSETS EXCEED £3OQ,QOQ,QQO • OYER 860 OFFICES AUSTRALIA. NEW ZEALAND. LONDON
'• eiF/so •


Finance
Corporation
of Australia
Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DEBENTURE
STOCK
7k
PER ANNUM 10 YEARS
10/
4 to
PER ANNUM 6 YEARS
7x
0
PER ANNUM 3 YEARS
Applications for
debenture stock can be
accepted only on
the printed form referred
to in and attached to
the prospectus.
Prospectuses and forms
of application should
be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier f.n. t
INVESTMENT
Both Sweet and Sour
Two fast-expanding confectioners
'nrhe directors of Hoadley’s Holdings
have made another hint at the pos-
sibility of fresh capital being injected into
the company. In last week's annual re-
port, the chairman, Mr J. L. Hewison,
said that, with increased taxation, there
was a limit to the contribution retained
profits could make towards expansion.
“Your directors are anxious to give
shareholders a reasonable return on
capital invested and also to provide
funds for growth.”
The company’s recent expansion has
been financed by a conservative dividend
policy, allied with two capital reconstruc-
tions in the past seven years, both of
which involved virtual bonus issues. The
dividend in the latest year to December
31 was raised from llj p.c. to 13!
p.c., after profit had touched a record
£98,000 and earning rate had settled to
19.1 p.c. on higher capital.
Early last year directors warned that
planned expansion would need fresh
funds and pointed out that shares held in
the holding company by a NSW sub-
sidiary could be used for the purpose.
Later, the group raised £210,000 by
placing 240,750 (half) of these shares
at 18s. In terms of the ambunt raised
this would have been equal to a one-for-
six premium issue.
Most of the money was used on 1964
expansion, lifting fixed assets from
£1,053,000 to £1,169,000. The actual
book profit on the sale of the shares was
used to reduce goodwill by £150,000 to
£36,000. Do Mr Hewison’s comments
mean an issue to shareholders or the
placement of the other half of these
shares? Something for the speculators to
decide! Whatever the outcome, share-
holders will benefit in the long run from
the resultant expansion.
Turning to a less happy situation, the
giant chocolate and confectionery com-
plex, Macßobertson (Aust.), has cut the
bonus element from its 1963 dividend to
make the payout 8 p.c. for the latest y«ar
to December 31. According to directors
the £41,000 which this will save will go
toward the establishment of a £3 million
factory at Ringwood, an outer Mel-
bourne suburb.
However, considering the 2 p.c. bonus
has been paid every year since 1957, the
considerable jump in costs which mus£
occur while the factory is being estab-
lished, and the fact that earning rate in
the latest year was only 11.9 p.c., it
seems that the move was made more to
guard against the possibility of an un-
covered dividend than to provide extra
funds for the new factory.
The group’s expenses are rising on
several fronts as it is and will be given
further boosts during the interim period
when operations are running at Ring-
wood as well as the present Fitzroy
factory. Strong competition in the in-
dustry is inflating costs. If further wage
increases are made, the benefits of the
higher sales expected in 1965 could be
lost. A scarcity of labor may well accen-
tuate this problem.
Last year’s turnover was the highest in
the company’s 85-year history, but owing
to general rising costs and low margins
in some sections the net profit only mana-


ANSETT TRANSPORT
INDUSTRIES LIMITED
£4,000,000
DEBENTURE STOCK ISSUE
(LISTED ON THE STOCK EXCHANGE)
110/
2/0
10, 15, 20 or 25 YEARS
Applications may proceed only on the form attached to the pros-
pectus obtainable from
• Any member of a Recognised Stock Exchange.
• Any Branch of the English, Scottish and Australian Bank Ltd. or
Australia and New Zealand Bank Ltd.
• Any office of the joint Underwriter, lan Potter & Co.
• Any office of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. or its subsidiaries.
Underwriters:
lAN POTTER & CO.
{Member of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
360 Collins Street, Melbourne
AUSTRALIAN UNITED CORPORATION LIMITED
411 Collins Street, Melbourne
POST THIS COUPON TODAY!
ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LTD.
P.O. Box 1629 M, G.P.0., Melbourne. Please send me a
of your 7Vz% Debenture Stock Prospectus.
NAME
copy
89/65
ADDRESS
V2140/24
ged a small lift from £252,000 to
£266,000.
It is inevitable that the earning rate
will be cut into once work at Ringwood
gets under way. Tenders were being
called in the middle of last month. Of
course the long-run effect of the move
will most definitely be greater efficiency
and higher profits. The factory will be
the biggest and best equipped of its kind
and will provide a much more satis-
factory base than the old and crowded
premises in Fitzroy.
Yet the long-term effect on earning
rates will depend to a large extent on how
the £3-million project is financed. If it is
done internally, and without adding to
shareholders’ funds, the benefits will be
huge a few years from now. If shares
have to be issued or loan capital raised,
even the current dividend could go out
uncovered for a couple of years.
Directors have said that the capital
expenditure involved could be provided
to a large degree by the sale of Mac-
Robertson-Miller Airlines for £340,000
cash and Life Savers at a capital profit of
£966,000. Premises in Brisbane are still
to be sold, too, but the market for in-
dustrial buildings there is depressed at the
present. Even allowing for these proceeds
and for those from other internal sources,
there remains a very good chance that
outside cash will be needed to make up
the £3 million.
Delighting Company
The news that a public holding com-
A pany has been formed to float the
“Mr Whippy” brand ice cream to the
Stock Exchange lists could cause con-
sternation in many quarters. The com-
pany's unique feature is that it both pro-
duces and then retails its product via
vans, which means the customer hardly
has to step beyond his front gate. The
vans have been a familiar sight on Eng-
lish roads for years before coming to
Sydney in November, 1962.
Expansion was rapid. Throughout
Australia today there are about 150
specially designed mobile vending vans,
music to bring the kids running and all.
Depots are operating in suburban and
country centres throughout NSW, Bris-
bane, Adelaide and Perth. Franchise
rights have been granted for North
Queensland, Melbourne and New Zea-
land. On entering the Victorian market
recently, severe opposition came from
the Victorian Confectioners’ Association,
which sought to have the company's vans
banned from operating in the streets.
Similar opposition in other States has
been unsuccessful.
Many local councils are still bucking
against the vans. The degree of trouble
they can cause will no doubt be reduced
to some extent now that the group has
public status. In some areas the coun-
cils have managed to have the music
banned but not the vans. This alone
could affect sales as the populace may
not even know the van is in the street.
As the group does not appear to be
getting much new cash from the public
float, consternation among competitors
may be a little higher than necessary.
The new holding company will buy Mr
Whippy Pty Ltd from the present owners.
Forte’s Holdings Ltd (75 p.c.) and
Kendell’s (NSW) Pty Ltd (25 p.c.).
Forte's is an English restaurant, hotel and
food manufacturing complex. Kendell
is a private investment company con-
trolled by W. G. Kendell, who will be
the managing director of the new com-
pany.
Consideration will be the issue of
2,880,000 ss. ordinary shares and
800,000 deferred shares plus £680,000
in cash. The public issue of 1,920.000
shares at a 2s. 6d. premium will raise the


<' r
«§l
iilli
m
mm
m:
m
jm
48888^ :v^
m
i '
B
PROBLEM
How to brand a
rubber diving suit
ANSWER
A SELEX DECAL.
Elastical Transfer
You wouldn’t call this an everyday problem. It was a very
real problem to the diving suit manufacturer, until he called
in Selex Decal. He found, to his surprise, that Selex Decal
had lots\of experience in branding rubber —devising
transfers for tyres, waders, vee belts, etc. But this material
was different black neoprene sponge rubber. Undeterred,
the Selex Decal lab. went to work. Without any developmen-
tal cost to the diving suit manufacturer, Selex Decal pro-
duced transfers printed with a colourful trademark design
which would cure into the rubber, s-t-r-e-t-c-h, and remain
impervious to the effects of salt water, scuffing, even soap.
IF YOU HAVE A BRANDING PROBLEM
TURN IT OVER TO SELEX DECAL
SELEX DECAL
“DO AMAZING THINGS WITH TRANSFERS’’
Melbourne: 61 3211 *— Sydney: 43 0221
Agents in all other states
THE WORD DECAL IS REGISTERED
SDSAI
cash for this and leave about £40,000
over. After the ordinary shares have
received the predicted 10 p.c. dividend
for three consecutive years the deferred
shares will convert to ordinary capital.
Profit in the latest year to January 31
was £202,000, equalling 16.8 p.c. on the
new company’s proposed ordinary capi-
tal.
Steady Schweppes?
Ochweppes (Australia), the soft drink
manufacturer, has lifted its dividend
by one p.c. every year since listing and
the initial payout of 7 p.c. in 1960-61.
Last year's distribution totalled 10 p.c.
However, it seems that 1964-65 may
well be the year in which the trend is
broken. Last week’s interim report
announced a steady half-yearly payout
of 4i p.c., indicating another 10 p.c.
distribution for the full year. Last year’s
higher total dividend was heralded earlier
in the piece by a lift in the interim
payout.
Nevertheless, there is still some chance
that the final for the current year will be
boosted. The bigger dividend in 1963-64
was paid although earning rate for the
year had only risen from 14.9 p.c. to
15.2 p.c. This year’s increase should be
much greater. According to the interim
report a “higher” profit was made in
the December six months, and sales in
the current half have been “higher” also.
Black Sheep
I>lakiston’s has shocked shareholders
by turning up as. the black sheep
in the transport flock. When the industry
and its component companies are doing
better than ever before, this Geelong-
based group announces a “diminished”
half-yearly profit and no interim divi-
dend. In 1963-64, the second year on
the public lists, a 12i p.c. payout was
maintained after profits had been held
at £36,000 but earning rate had slipped
to 15.5 p.c. on much higher capital.
The cause of the present trouble has
been industrial stoppages and higher
costs. Actual sales showed a “substantial”
increase, giving grounds for the directors
to call the setback “temporary” and
await the full year’s results before
deciding on dividend policy. There is a
need to conserve the group’s working
funds and it does seem that some pay-
ment will be made in the end. However,
it is very unlikely to be anything like
121 p.c.
The situation does seem to be
definitely temporary.


has been retained to advise
on the following appointment
INVESTMENT ADVISER
for a national stock and share broking firm, the
appointment being a reflection of a positive pro-
gramme of planned future development and func-
tions. He will be responsible for satisfying the re-
quirements of individual clients—either those wish-
ing to buy or sell or those seeking specific informa-
tion and advice on their investments. Location:
Melbourne.
Starting salary will be negotiated at not less than
present figure and be reviewed after 6 months, ac-
cording to results. Discretionary bonus. Superannua-
tion. Promotion prospects include partnership after
satisfactory service in competitive and stimulatng
environment.
Candidates must have had proven experience in
client advisory work in stocks and shares of all
kinds. This experience could have been in research,
the investment department of an institution or in a
stock and share broking office, the last being pre-
ferred. Age: late 20's to late 30’s preferred.
Please send brief information , quoting reference BTN/722 to
Mr - >■ Summerton in Melbourne or Mr. E. L. Haddock in
Sydney.
MANAGEMENT SELECTION AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD.
J
414 Collins Street, Melbourne
247 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
No information is disclosed to clients until candi-
dates have given permission after personal discussion.
MSA.36B.BTN
A Chain Reaction
Vet another company in the higher turnover but steady or
A lower profit predicament is Falkiner Holdings, chain
maker. In the six months to the end of January, labor and
material cost increases reduced profits although sales rose.
Other expenses were “generally held”.
The company’s cost rise was abnormally accentuated by
steel shortages and delivery delays. A “large tonnage” of steel
has to be purchased at higher prices than normal. The factory
was, and still is, working to capacity. Its labor costs are
expected to be lowered by some better production methods
devised and now operating.
The news is unfortunate for shareholders who have seen
their company go from strength to strength in the last few
years. Last year’s profit rose more than. 30 p.c. to £33,000.
It equalled a buoyant 20.2 p.c. on capital, from which a steady
10 p.c. dividend was distributed. Profit and earning rate were
both double the figures of two years earlier.
The news is also rather disheartening, as it comes only weeks
after a one-for-three bonus issue. Dividends are expected
to be maintained, nevertheless. The new shares will rank
for half the full 1964-65 dividend which is paid in one lump
at the end of the year.
Bayview Surprises
A bold and surprising move has eventuated from Bayview,
Victoria’s largest publicly-listed quarry and ready-mixed
concrete group. Profits in the half-year tumbled to an annual
16.8 p.c. earning rate, but the year’s dividend looks like being
lifted to 121 p.c. The interim is 61 p.c. Earning rate last
year was 24.7 p.c. and dividend lli p.c. This was the best
result since 1961-62 when the dividend was still 12i p.c. and
before troubles beset the quarrying industry.
Apparently Bayview’s sales have increased, though profit
margins were lower on crushed stone and concrete. Expendi-
ture was also incurred on new plant which did not contribute
during the six months. Lakt year’s sales figure jumped from
£3.8 million to £5.8 million, reflecting the acquisition of the
Bladin quarries group in August, 1963.
Cutting Off Bad Wood
TVrectors of Deposit and Investment Co. did well to send
their shareholders a copy of audited group accounts for
the December half-year, accompanied by a lengthy and honest
report. The information need not necessarily have gone to
shareholders, being principally required to accord with Com-
panies Act provisions on public borrowers. There can be no
doubt, though, that members of the ailing D. and I. may take
a little cheer from these reasonably detailed revelations.
Not that there's much more than a still fairly harrowing
path to tread. The ghost of bad debts is actually being laid by
a slow transformation of the type of business written, a move-
ment from the dangerous business loans to real estate loans.
“While this form of lending is profitable, it does not earn
the same high rate of interest as business loans,” directors con-
fess, “but the possibility of bad debts accruing is substantially
less. The administrative overhead is also greatly reduced.”
Real estate mortgages now account for 35.4 p.c. of group
outstandings, coming up from 15.5 p.c. as at April 30, 1963.
Loans on security of food retailing business have gone back
from 47.3 to 31.3 p.c. during the same period.
As at December, the total of the unfortunate series of bad
debt write-offs had reached £3,380,045. Declines in the market
values of certain small businesses keep the problem alive.
Further, recoveries “will not be significant compared with the
amounts written off.”
All is not dark, however, The company appears thoroughly
able, from its own resources, to carry out an intention to repay
debenture borrowings as they mature. Total assets of
£15,491,539 back issued debentures £10,693,700, while gross
receivables are £19,376,198 (£1 1,410,838 repayable within
two years).
D. and I. must inevitably face reduced earning rates for some
time yet, but its overall structure will plainly improve by
cutting away the bad wood.
Better Than Mediocre
rpo the relief of all, newly-floated Melbourne-based E. A.
Watts has lifted itself from mediocrity. For a building
and construction company operating under extremely buoyant
conditions such a state does not look very healthy, especially
when one considers the usual fate of companies in the industry
once the periodic downward fluctuations take their toll.
Earnings in the December half-year rose to a level which
will equal 16 p.c. on capital for the full term. Before floating,
1963-64 produced a rate of only 12.5 p.c. on the present
capital. Unfortunately, the dividend distribution looks as if
it will remain mediocre. The forecast was “not less than 7
p.c.” and the interim is the equivalent of 4 p.c. for a full
six months.
Fortunately, the type of work the group undertakes is not
as prone to fluctuation as many other building activities. This
is some comfort, as even a 16 p.c. earning rate is rather
unspectacular.


SECURITY ANALYSIS
The Old Lady Takes a Knock
Low returns from the Hotel Australia
TTntil September, 1960, the Hotel Aus-
tralia was probably Sydney’s premier
hotel. Overseas visitors (or at least the
more wealthy of them) would hardly
have considered staying anywhere else.
Although the edifice which had been
growing on the top of Kings Cross since
early 1959 did not prove to be a success
from an investor’s point of view, it
certainly seems to have given the old
lady of Castlereagh Street a severe knock.
Profits of the Australia Hotel Co. Ltd,
which had been steadily increasing since
1948, turned down in 1960-61 and after
a slight rally in 1962-63 were reduced
to almost infinitesimal levels by 1963-64.
The half-yearly report covering the
period from July 1, 1964, to December
31, 1964, suggests that net profit before
tax, depreciation and interest on long-
term loans has increased from just under
£62,000 for the comparable period of the
previous year to just under £BO,OOO, or
by nearly 30 p.c. This can be regarded
as a most creditable achievement.
The report refers to “adverse results
for July and August”. So far as can be
judged from the comparable figures
given, it seems that there was a net
loss of about £16,000 in the six months
from January 1, 1964, to June 30, 1964.
It seems, then, that the winter of 1964
was a particularly bad time for the
Australia and one therefore wonders if
hotels particularly luxury hotels —•
suffer when the weather is good.
Of course, the weather has nothing to
do with the situation, but the opening of
another modern hotel seems to have had
a dramatic effect. The Menzies Hotel
opened in mid-October, 1963, and it can
be assumed that the Australia’s business
was reduced below the break-even point.
The revival now noticed may well indi-
cate that a certain amount of custom is
now returning to the Australia. There
must still be some hesitation in consider-
ing the probable effects of the opening
of the Qantas Hotel some time in 1966
unless some fairly substantial increases in
net profit can be achieved before then.
Looking back over the Australia’s his-
tory, one can also see the evidence of the
two reconstructions. Perhaps the number
should be three. Even then, the bonus
issue of May, 1960, might not be con-
sidered a reconstruction for it did little
more than increase the size of the ordin-
ary capital.
The Australia Hotel Company was
formed in mid-1891, though it acquired
the hotel from the Anglo-Australian
Investment Finance and Land Company
Limited. Stock Exchange listing came in
1913, when the equity capital was'
£50,000. The first reconstruction was
alleged to have occurred in 1915, when a
new company was formed and the old
one put into voluntary liquidation. This
particular arrangement was merely a
bonus issue, for the shareholders in the
old company received three shares in the
new company for every two they had
held in the old one. Other “bonus issues”
of that period (and there were several)
seem to have taken the form of issues
declared to satisfy the uncalled liability
on contributing shares that the company
had issued. From 1912 to 1960 inclusive
there were no less than seven bonus
issues. They would have been sufficient
to raise a shareholding o£ one hundred
shares in 1911 to over one thousand
shares by 1960. The earnings of just
over £41,000 achieved in 1926 (during
the boom period following World War 1)
were quadrupled in 1960, although “paid-
in-cash” capital had only increased by
50 p.c.
can be little doubt that Australia
* Hotel shareholders had had a good
run from 1948 to 1960, with the divi-
dend rate increasing from 6 p.c. to‘ 15
p.c. and three bonus issues and one
rights issue at par. It seems rather sad
that the prospects should now appear so
gloomy. Even if we assume that the
disclosed earnings for the first half of
1964-65 represent two months’ losses
and four months’ profits, and that under
current conditions profits are being
earned at the rate of £6OOO per month,
it would still be difficult to put the poten-
tial earning rate higher than 7 p.c. From
the figures available, it is difficult to
assume a higher rate of profit.
At this stage it is probably a good
idea to compare the results of the Aus-
tralia Hotel with those of the Hotel
Metropole over the last five years. Un-
fortunately, it is not possible to make
worthwhile comparisons with other Syd-
ney hotel operators over the same period.
A very brief glance at profits from
hotel trading shown by Chevron Sydney
indicates declining profits and there is
reason to believe that the results of the
Carlton-Rex have also been affected by
the opening of the Menzies.
ADJUSTED EARNING RATE PER CEtJT
1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
Australia Hotel 16.3 14.6 5.8 8.1
Hotel Metropole 14.8 15.4 14.6 15.9 16.3
Wynyard Holdings 3.6 3.6 3.3
SHARE PRICES 1965 Divi- Earn-
dend ings
yield yield
high low now % %
Australia Hotel 5/- 4/9 4/- 4/7 7.6(a)
Hotel Metropole 10/- 20/6 18/6 18/6 7.6 8.8
Wynyard Holdings 5/- 5/- 3/6 3/8 8.2 13.9(a)
(a) My "guesstimates" for 1964-65 earning rates.
An interesting statistic would be the
rate of return on capital employed, yet
there are a number of difficulties in cal-
culating this ratio. The main problem is
to determine the present value of the
capital for each of the hotels. The Men-
zies situation is complicated by the offices
and shops. The other two have the
assets at differing values because of
amounts recently expended and asset re-
valuations. The only judgment that can
be made is that the return from the
Australia Hotel looks rather low—even
when it is assumed that there will be
a_. substantial improvement this year—
in comparison with the Hotel Metropole.
At the present time it seems as though
Wynyard Holdings is rather under-
valued so far as its share prices are
concerned. Judging by the results of the
other “luxury” hotels, it could well be
that its results will be the most affected
by the new Qantas Hotel.
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (E'000)
Year to June 30 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
Current assets 107 96 93 86 74
Current liabilities 348 342 438 401 353
Working capital (241) (246) (345) (315) (279)
Fixed assets 1938 2020 2353 2324 2289
Total capital 1938 2020 2353 2324 2289
Represented by:
Negative
working capital 241 246 345 315 279
Deferred liabilities N/A 13 25 21 22
Mortgage loan 150 200 450 450 450
Preference capital 33 33 33 33 33
Ordinary capital 1009 1009 1009 1009 1009
Reserves 505 519 491 496 496
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES (E'000)
Interest on loan N/A 9 23 33 33
Depreciation 30 30 33 47 48
Tax provided 101 98 56 54 2
Preference dividend 2 2 2 2 2
Earnings 164 147 58 82 1
Ordinary dividend 126 126 101 81
Surplus 33 21 (43) 1 1
Earning rate p.c. 16.3 14.6 5.8 8.1
Dividend rate p.c. 15.0 12.5 10.0 8.0
Dividend yield p.c. (a) 4.4 6.4 5.6 6.0
High price (b) 19/- 13/3 10/3 8/6 7/-
Low price (b) 12/3 9/1 7/10 5/- 3/11
(a) Based on last sale price in August when accounts
presented.
(b) Calendar year.


tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock,
tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock,
tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock,
tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock,
tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock,
tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock,
tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock,
Seconds are people . . .
Hundreds of thousands of them . . .
All being sold on TCN-9 . . .
Day after day . . . Week after week . . .
TCN
Studio & Transmitter: Artarmon Rd., Willoughby. 43 0444
Sydney Sales: Cricket House. 27 2881
Melb. Sales: 247 Collins St. 63 8336
TCN: P 443


ESANDA
LIMITED
The main business of Esanda Limited is to conduct
hire purchase, leasing and other finance operations
DEBENTURE STOCK
o co® eo
CURRENCY
years
years
years
years
years
years
ISSUED AT PAR INTEREST RATE
.... e%%
6%%
6 I A%
6%
5 3 i%
5%%
UNSECURED NOTES
CURRENCY ISSUED AT PAR INTEREST RATE
10 years ~,. 6 3 i%
8 years 6 3 A%
6 years G/£%
5 years ..,. 0%%
4 years 6%
3 years 5 %%
interest per annum payable half-yearly
Applications can be accepted only on one of the forms
of application attached to a printed copy of the pros-
pectus which are available from Members of Stock
Exchanges and at any office of
THE ENGLISH SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK LIMITED
ESANDA LIMITED
(incorporated in victoria)
Registered Office: 365 George Street, Sydney
E3P/«
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
High But Safe Returns
Thompsons (C’maine) on recovery trend
Around the current price level of 345.,
the 20s. shares of Thompsons
(Castlemaine) Ltd offer investors a
chance to improve the average yield of
their portfolios and purchase a very
sound stock at the same time. The divi-
dend yield, after allowing for buying
brokerage, is 7 p.c. from the current
124 p.c. rate of annual payment. If the
company's present improving trend is
maintained, this distribution could be
restored to 15 p.c. in 1965-66, or even
in the current year if the second half
turns out to be more lucrative than ex-
pected. Add to this the fact that prices
are historically low (see accompanying
table) and a purchase looks even more
attractive.
The company has been operating as
an engineer and steel founder since
December, 1946, when it was registered
as a public company. The head office
,and the main plant are at Castlemaine,
central Victoria. The heavier work is
handled there. The works are substan-
tially engaged in producing heavy duty
pumps for water reticulation and sewer-
age, equipment for power stations, rail-
way forgings, mining machinery, etc.
Just out of Melbourne, Williamstown
Engineering operates as a branch works
for steel fabrication and general engineer-
ing. It was acquired in July, 1961. The
main business is the production of pres-
sure vessels and the fabrication of steel
for the petroleum, chemical and associa-
ted industries.
In December, 1962, the steel founding
establishments of Davies and Baird were
acquired as subsidiaries. Works are at
Brunswick and Coburg, two suburbs
close to the city. The only other subsi-
diary is Castlemaine Housing Estates.
The group has branch offices in Mel-
bourne, Sydney and Brisbane, and agen-
cies in Adelaide. Perth and Kalgoorlie.
The 1961 and 1962 acquisitions have
proved successful, although the initial
stages of the reorganisation they
heralded helped bring about the 1962-63
collapse in earning rate from 21.5 p.c.
to 13.9 p.c. The new subsidiaries en-
abled the company's old foundry at Nel-
son Place, Williamstown, to be closed
and dismantled during that year. Wil-
liamstown Engineering's business was
reorganised and building extensions
made after the takeover, resulting in
less than full profitability until well into
the 1962-63 year. Davies and Baird also
underwent several changes which
affected profits and, to add to the dis-
ruption, the main works at Castlemaine
were extended.
Labor troubles were, however, the
basic cause of the 1962-63 setback.
Production was interrupted by stop-work
meetings. Activity has been fairly
smooth since mid-1963, however, when
the Arbitration Court settled the com-
pany’s problems. Increased production
since has absorbed higher wage costs
where it was impossible to pass them
on to customers because of the strong
price competition in this sphere of in-
dustry. Operations have fortunately
been unhindered by the shortage of
skilled labor which has hampered many
other firms to date. The takeovers and
the closing of the Williamstown works
left the group with a staff carryover.
Of course the £BO,OOO capital increase
created by the Davies and Baird take-
over was instrumental in knocking the
earning rate back, too, especially as it


Pick, a, poach
AMPHORA
7
'gentle
LIKE AN
EXTRA MILD TOBACCO?
Then ask for Amphora
in the Brown Pouch
:
PREFER A
MILD AROMATIC?
Then try Amphora Aromatic
in the Blue Pouch
.3 • •
I
FOR A
FULL AROMATIC!
Choose Amphora Full Aromatic
in the Red Pouch
AMPHORA
There’s a choice of
three fine Amphora pipe
tobaccos all cool
smoking —so there is
one to suit you. Amphora
is an imported tobacco!
64
( PRODUCT OF DDUWC EGBERTS ROYAL FACTORIES. UTRECHT, HOLLAHU
SAI.4Z
came right on the heels of the Williams-
town Engineering takeover in 1961-62.
That move added £177,000 to capital.
In the short space of two years, paid
capital was increased by more than 50
p.c. In the light of this fact, the 1962-
63 setback was not nearly as serious as
it appeared to be on the surface.
The 1963-64 stretch to June 30 saw
the beginning of what will undoubtedly
be a continuing recovery trend. Earning
rate rose to 15.3 p.c. Naturally, direc-
tors did not consider this sufficient to
warrant a return to the 15 p.c. dividends
which were paid from 1958-59 to 1961-
62. Always a generous dividend distri-
butor (particularly in the last two years),
Thompsons has nevertheless followed a
cautious financial policy, giving it great
internal strength and the ability to ex-
pand and modernise from retained earn-
ings. Almost £650,000 has been spent
on fixed assets in the last three years. The
last issue to shareholders was the 35-for-
-100 at a 20s. premium in 1961-62, made
to finance the Williamstown takeover.
Prior to that there was a one-for-four
at par in 1950-51. Despite the strong
liquid position and the big margin which
reserves have over capital, an issue
should not be expected for some time.
Directors must aim at pushing the earn-
ing rate back above the 20 p.c. level
before such a move is contemplated.
There seems to be every chance of
achieving this goal in 1965-66. The
interim report for this year said that
“higher’’ profits were made in the six
months to December 31. The upward
trend was expected to be maintained if
existing conditions continued. A steady
interim dividend of 5 p.c. was declared.
On these indications, earnings may even
come very close to the 20 p.c. mark in
the current year.
The accompanying table illustrates in
figures the company's extremely solid
and healthy financial position. Current
assets have remained static in relation
to the steady growth of current liabilities.
This has reduced working capital over
the last two years, but the trend is not
one to cause alarm. It should be only
temporary. There is still plenty of cash
at present levels to more than adequately
service the company’s business. Fixed
assets, as mentioned previously, have
established an uninterrupted growth
trend.
Reserves show an enviable growth
trend, with a natural tapering in the rate
over the last two years. This rate will be
showing the start of a new upward trend
as from the current year. Loan capital
has been kept to a bearable minimum.
The deferred liabilities comprise provi-
sions made in the accounts for employee
long service leave and superannuation.
To sum up, Thompsons should be
regarded basically as a safe investment
currently yielding high from the divi-
dend. Issue prospects are excellent yet
long term, owing to the low earnings of
late. At present, it seems that a perform-
ance recovery would bring about in-
creased dividends rather than an issue.
Such a move may be better than an issue.
It would increase the dividend yield, the
present high level of which is the chief
reason for buying anyway.
Apart from the opportunity to rake
in a high dividend income over the next
few years, present depressed prices are
also made attractive because they are so
far below the net tangible asset backing
per share—almost £2 10s.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
Current assets 1301 1542 1584 1581 1577
Less current liabilities 488 726 702 823 840
Working capital 813 816 882 758 737
Fixed assets 812 867 1122 1407 1421
Intangibles 25 25 100 100 100
1650 1703 2104 2265 2258
Ordinary capital 507 507 684 764 764
Reserves 824 886 1089 1122 1133
Preference capital 245 245 245 245 245
Loan capital 40 37 34 56 47
Deferred liabilities 34 33 52 64 69
Outside shareholders — — — 12 —
1650 1708 2104 2265 2258
Depreciation 43 44 46 60 64
Tax 106 107 112 66 92
Net profit 163 165 165 126 135
Outside shareholders — — — 2 —
Preference dividend 18 18 18 18 18
Ordinary dividend 76 76 103 96 96
Surplus 69 71 44 10 21
Ord. earning rate p.c. 28.6 29.0 21.5 13.9 15.3
Dividend rate p.c. 15 15 15 12^
Dividend yield (a) 4.4 5.9 5.2 6.3 5.5
High price (b) 69/- 59/- 61/- 61/- 46/3
Low price (b) 60/- 47/— 50/— 37/6 37/—
(a) End September, month results announced.
(b) Calendar year.
FORD SHERINGTON HOLDINGS LTD
Standing Well with Travel
The growing travel consciousness of the
Australian public has been reflected
in increased earnings by Ford Shering-
ton Holdings Ltd, one of the largest
makers of travel goods m Australia.
The company has b “ n !^^ fact “ r ' n ?
suitcases and similar travel goods under
the trade names of Globite, Fordite,
Airway and Regal since 1911. It oper-
ates factories in all Australian States and
South Africa,
Pub[ic status was obtained in 1950,
w ben existing shareholders sold 133,328
<o th(j Hic at 7s . 6d . each
plus charge s to obtain a sufficient spread
u 3 » .
of shares for Stock Exchange listing.
Paid-up capital at this stage was


Before you make a Will, choose
your Executor with care . . .
. . . for the decision is all-important in the administration of your Estate
. . . he must have knowledge and experience in death and estate duty
problems . . . income tax . . . real estate . . . investment management
. . . and the time to deal with the many complex problems he will
encounter.
Backed by 76 years’ experience in Estate administration, Perpetual
Trustee Company has these qualifications to act as Executor of your
Will, either alone or jointly with a friend or relative and, in addition,
will bring to the administration the human understanding you would
desire.
Why not call and learn more about the advantages of appointing
Perpetual as Executor of your Will. A senior officer is always at your
service to advise on any problems you may have.
A booklet outlining the Company’s many activities is now available.
Contact Perpetual today for your copy.
r^nr^OTiT
TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. TELEPHONE 2 0377
Offices at Newcastle, Wollongong, Orange, and Tamworth.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA) LTD.
M.L.C. BUILDING, PETRIE STREET, CANBERRA, A.C.T.
“PUT YOUR TRUST IN PERPETUAL”
£145,550, including £45,550 in 8 p.c.
preference shares.
The only movement in ordinary capi-
tal to date has been a one-for-two bonus
issue in 1959, which lifted paid ordinary
capital to £150,000. The preference
capital was repaid in 1963, with prefer-
ence shareholders receiving 255. cash for
every 20s. unit.
Profit earning history has been good,
with earnings giving a satisfactory cover
to the dividend requirement. Dividend
distribution between 1951 and 1962, in-
cluding the payment on bonus increased
capital, was 10 p.c., except for 1959
when the company added a bonus 2! p.c.
to the payout prior to the bonus issue.
In 1963 and again last year, following
the removal of the preference dividend
charge, the distribution was increased
to 12! p.c. last year paid in two equal
amounts.
Profit has shown a steady improve-
ment from the low point of £20,103 in
1957. Last year it touched a record
£36,809, equal to 24.5 p.c. on capital,
.covering the dividend requirement almost
twice.
Even at this figure, the profit is
apparently understated in the eyes of the
Taxation Commissioner, for tax pro-
vision was £34,097, up from £30,774 in
the previous year when profit was
£34,730.
Part of this apparently high provision,
however, is probably due to the different
taxation rates applying in South Africa.
The latest year was not an easy one
because of strong competition, particu-
larly from imported goods, and a short-
age of skilled operators.
For some time the company has been
trying to relocate its activities in Sydney
and at one stage acquired a property in
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
Current ossets 238 251 296 261 321
Less current liabilities 134 124 117 121 125
Working capital 104 127 179 140 196
Fixed assets 372 364 366 360 349
Intangibles 125 125 120 120 120
601 616 665 620 665
Represented by:
Ordinary capital 150 150 150 150 150
Pref. capital 46 46 46 — —
Reserves 395 412 463 470 515
Loans 10 8 6 — —
601 616 665 620 665
Depreciation 6 14 11 13 14
Taxation 27 25 16 31 34
Net profit 27 27 26 35 37
Pref. div. 4 4 4 3 —
Ord. div. 15 15 15 19 19
■Surplus 8 8 7 13 18
Dividend p.c. 10 10 10 12£ 12£
Earning rale, p.c. 15.5 15.8 15.0 21.2 24.5
Dividend yield (a) 5.7 5.7 4.8 4.5 3.7
High price (b) 14/- 9/6 12/- 15/9 17/6
Low price (b) 8/6 8/3 9/3 10/— 15/2
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
the suburb of Kingsgrove. This was,
however, bought by the Department of
Education, from which transaction the
company showed a surplus of £16,223.
The company has since acquired another
five acres in the same area, on which it
plans to build a single-storey factory.
Ford Sherington was in a particularly
strong liquid position at last balance date,
with cash funds of £92,836 and stock
exchange investments of £47,754 (with a
market value of £54,320).
The reserve position was also very
strong, capita] reserves being almost suf-
ficient for a one-for-one bonus issue.
Subject to intangible items of £120,141
(goodwill on consolidation), net assets
backing of each ss. share was a con-
servative 17s. 9d.
Despite the recent decline in the mar-
ket, the shares have held at 15s. Based
on historic factors of profit earning
capacity and the possibility of another
bonus issue, the shares are good buying.


LUDOWICI
FOR
JORGENSEN
VARIABLE SPEED DRIVES
©
Don’t buy trouble—buy the drive
with the service— a Jorgensen
J. C. LI7DOWICI
SON
& STD.
SYDNEY
29-5841
MELBOURNE
61-3881
ADELAIDE
46-4141
BRISBANE
57-4021
INVEST IN
%
1
1
UP TO
FOR 10 YEARS
A N.Z or I.A.C
throughout Australia
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
Underwriters lan Potter & Co. mi
Applications will be accepted only on
printed forms attached to the Prospectus
which is now available from your Stock-
broker, and all of the Branches of
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
The Best That Can Be Said
Coping with “sensational reductions”
fT'HE best that can be said about the
present market is that it’s holding
steady. People are quite prepared to
give you their views on the market, but
will seldom back up these views with
any action.
A broker’s circular along certain lines
could stir them. Headed “April Sales”
and subheaded “Sensational Reductions”,
it might lead on to the following details:
Amalg. Chem., reduced, 14s. to
11s. 4d.
Big Sister, reduced, 445. 6d. to 335. 6d.
Kelvinator, reduced, 275. to 21s.
PGH, reduced, 255. 7d. to 18s.
Pongrass, reduced, 12s. 3d. to 9s.
Eric White, reduced, 21s. to 15s.
If I had received the above circular
it would have been the last two stocks
that would have attracted my attention.
This year Eric White shares have fallen
several shillings without any real
support. Violent price movements be-
wilder the average shareholder, so let’s
hope this stock steers a more steady
course in the future.
Assuming this course is upwards, then
the price of 15s. is a very fair one. Un-
fortunately, several other buyers have
the same idea, and my idea of becoming
a shareholder at this price fell through.
My order to buy Pongrass was more
successful, although the average price
for the 400 shares worked out at 9s. 6d.
Pongrass is one of several new back-
door entries into the market during the
last few years. At first glance its range
of products, from pneumatic equipment
to steel furniture and fibreglass boats,
is so varied that it’s almost suspicious.
The above description of the business
is scarcely, likely to suggest that this
could be a “golden stock” (same idea as
a “golden record”, except here the
measure is whether the earning rate
exceeds 100 p.c.l). Last year’s earnings
before tax were not much short of the
issued capital of £140,000. This year
Pongrass will have the benefit of the tax
losses of G. H. Sears. In the most
favorable light, earning rate this year
could thus be around the 100 p.c. mark.
Not bad for a share at less than four
times par.
Against this addition to the portfolio
were some subtractions. First of all,
the Tableland Tin holding was reduced
to 200 when I sold 200 shares at 365. 6d.
The profit of £47 is one of the best for
the year. I also managed to make a few
pounds on the A. G. Sims when they
rose to 6s. Bd.
Transactions for the week were;
SOLD
200 Tableland Tin, 36/6 £360
1000 A. G. Siins, 6/8 £328
BOUGHT
400 Pongrass, 9/6 £lB4
This puts me into the incredible
position of having more than £2OOO
credit in the account! I’m afraid that
the market is on the verge of another
fall.
No. of Name of Date C p°er rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1000 United Telecasters
„„„ (Put option) 6/1/65 11/- o/o
200 Aust. Chemical 20/1/65 26/6 25/6
400 STP Holdings 9/2/65 8/6 8/3
200 Tableland Tin 18/3/65 30 9 36/-
500 Boral (short) 18/3/65 26/- 26/-
300 W. R. Carpenter
(short) 25/3/65 27/6 27/-
200 Mt Isa (short) 25/3/65 35/- 34/-
1000 Macquarie Worsted 25/3/65 4/11 5/3
400 Pongrass 30/3/65 9/6 10/-


HELP
LEGACY
all the year round
Lfes
,T mi liii
, i. 34 »-»*<? i
w ; «»«* £
A <Ai#& »j-h4> .?«»;« £
EEAEEEEEE i *- %•'**•* • £
pfj! _ i •&*» «<’
|ip*C j Mt.Ua'.
I §&r 1
Just hold
an
Asahi Pentax
. . . and you begin to understand
why this camera is the uitimate
choice of discerning photographers
ail over the world.
Asahi Pentax is a beautifully balanced
instrument. It’s smooth. Precise:. Fast. And
incredibly accurate. The lenses give superb
performance. It’s easy to handle, too.
Meticulously built for constant use. Another
great Asahi Pentax advantage is its do-
anything versatility. . The wide range of
accessories enables you to build up a com-
plete system which prepares you for -any
demand, from microphotography to extra
long range telephotography, high speed
action subjects to portraiture. Just hold ail
Asahi Pentax at your dealer’s soon!
'
KD1123
A. L NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members o) Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH:
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089
THE MAN ON THE LAND
New Cattle Breed for Britain
Will Australia lift import embargo?
From a Correspondent in London
fFHE decision just taken in Britain to
-*■ establish French Charolais cattle
there as a separate breed cannot fail to
make some impression on authorities
responsible for maintaining Australia’s
ban on the importation of livestock from
abroad. The Australian embargo, im-
posed several years ago to guard against
the introduction of diseases like blue
tongue and foot-and-mouth in cattle and
scrapie in sheep, is designed to postpone
the day when Australia will overtake the
rest of the world in livestock diseases.
So far, newness, isolation and quaran-
tine have kept Australia freer than any
other country from international dis-
orders that afflict domestic livestock.
The measures taken to preserve this state
of affairs are elaborate. Yet despite such
regulations as those that have just been
introduced to make air travellers steri-
lise their shoes on entering Australia
from infected countries, officials know it
is only a matter of time before germs
pierce their net and bring to the island
continent the horrors that are now a
standard hazard of stock-breeding else-
where.
Part of the price for the vigilance
practised by quarantine men is that Aus-
tralia is deprived of stud stock from
abroad. The termination of this supply
has dismayed British breeders, thwarted
many Australians who had depended on
an influx of outside blood to maintain or
complete breeding programmes, and put
fortunes into the pockets of breeders and
speculators lucky enough or sufficiently
well informed to have secured imports of
stud stock just before the gate closed.
It has always been easy for quarantine
officials and their sponsors to point to the
fractional ratio between the cost of the
screen they have erected and the scale
of the disaster they are keeping at bay.
Less cogent have been the pleas of live-
"stock breeders who claim that the risk of
receiving ahead of schedule diseases that
are inevitable anyway is less than the loss
of progress resulting from the ban, for
they are less articulate than the official-
dom against which they are pitted.
Respect has grown in the last decade
for the argument that Australian cattle
breeding has reached a point where im-
portations can no longer benefit it. It is
pointed out that Australia has come of
age in this respect, with enough good
blood of its own to look after future im-
provements in breeding, and that stock
imported from cold places like Britain
would lack the advantages of acclimatisa-
tion that are now ‘‘built in” to Austra-
lian herds even if they could offer
other benefits.
The possibility of such other benefits
has itself come into question in recent
years, however, for with Australia no
longer helping to guide their standards
British stud men are taking the cue
from other quarters, such as South
America, whose influence has been
blamed for inducing in some English and
Scottish studs a smallness of conforma-
tion that to Australian eyes borders on
dwarfism. Australian breeders who have
visited British studs and stock sales in
the past year or two have expressed dis-
appointment and relief to find that the
kind of stock being produced in the UK
today has drifted so far from the Austra-
lian ideal that if the import ban were
lifted tomorrow there would be little
worth buying.
The decision to establish the Charolais
in Britain may prompt reconsiderations
in Australia. The fact that Britain is
acquiring new breeding resources whose
superiority has been confirmed by years
of testing under world experts could pro-
duce a reassessment of her potential as
a source of blood for Australian studs.
If Britain, with its experience in stock-
breeding, can find it expedient to go out-
side its own shores for an infusion of
genes, then so much more might Austra-
lia, with its comparative immaturity, be
justified in doing likewise.
Charolais bulls have been in Britain
for crossing trials with native dairy cattle
breeds since November, 1961. The way
has now been opened for females to be
brought in too, so that the breed can


YOU’LL DO MORE...SEE MORE!
WHEN YOU
FLY Ansett-ANA
AVIS C n lf nn
DRIVE RENT-A-CAR FU/COfM
There’s more time for business or pleasure when you travel
this modern . . . more convenient . . . more economical way!
With ANSETT-ANA's system of Golden jets, you jet to your
destination at 7 miles a minute in luxuri-
ous comfort. After arriving fresh and
relaxed, your sparkling new AVIS Falcon
will be waiting at any airport through-
out Australia. It’s yours to drive
wherever you want . . . whenever you
want as your very own!
Enjoy this modern, time and
money saving way of travel the
next time you make a business
or pleasure trip! Reserve your
AVIS Falcon when you book your
Ansett-ANA flight. It’s as simple
as that!
■t ♦
8888P:SS
(fi
*l3
: .ft
**N
m
ftftft ; ,,,. ™«
iSSSW*: 328
V
■• '
|
Ik*
, ft SSS '
.
n
ft .
ftft : :
ANSITT-AIIA A VIS rcnt-a cas
676/83/64
ALLIANCE HOLDINGS
LIMITED
for income and security
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide
Perth • Wollongong • Newcastle • Canberra
AAttt
be developed in its own right by British
stockmen.
The only British bulls sufficiently
tested to allow of individual breed com-
parisons were Friesians and Herefords,
although limited results were also avail-
able from lesser breeds. Trials with
Ayrshire dams are still too immature
for results to be gauged.
All the results so far disclosed are for
progeny reared and finished under in-
tensive systems of management. De-
tails of those more extensively reared are
not yet available.
The trials were primarily concerned
with commercial objectives such as
growth rate, food conversion, carcass
yield and quality. The calves in the
main trials were all reared on restricted
milk diets and at most centres were in-
dividually fed to 12 weeks of age. After
this they were carried on as ‘Farley
beef’. The Charolais crosses were
yarded separately from the British
breeds so that their food consumption
could be recorded separately.
The average liveweight gain a day
was greater for the ''Charolais crosses
than for those from British sires by about
5 p.c. for both steers and heifers, al-
though there was virtually no difference
between the Charolais crosses and pure
Friesian steers.
The Charolais showed a real advant-
age in food conversion, its average con-
sumption of starch equivalent for each
lb. liveweight gain being about 10 p.c.
less than for others.
Charolais cattle originated in the Bur-
gundy region of France and now make
up most of the beef herds of central
France. The Charolais is white or pale
straw-colored, weighs about a ton and
is said to be docile.
The decision of the British Minister
of Agriculture, Mr Peart, to allow it to
be established as a separate breed in
Britain has not pleased many local stud
breeders, although some, notably in
Scotland, are stoutly making the best of
it by declaring that the new breed is not
good enough to worry them. Those who
consider that the breed can help to in-
crease Britain's meat supplies welcome
the move.
Breeders given permission to import
will be required to comply, at their own
expense, with costly veterinary controls
and to select stock of adequate quality.
Strict control of the movement of im-
ported stock and their progeny will have
to be maintained for some years as a
precaution against the spread of any
genetic defects. The number of cattle
to be imported will be limited by such
things as quarantine facilities. It is ex-
pected that only a few breeders will be
in a position to make importations.
British breeders are watching this de-
velopment with much interest. So,
probably, will many Australians.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: CECIL FRANK JOICE. TAKE NOTICE
that MARIE TERESIA JOICE has filed a
Petition No. 870 of 1965 for Divorce on the
ground of desertion. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, _ Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, .Sydney, on or before the
26th day of May, 1965, and obtain a *copy of
the Petition without charge from MESSRS.
BEGG, BLACKMORE & CO., Solicitors. 10
Martin Place, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: HENDRICK BUDDING. TAKE NOTICE
that PAULINE JOHANNA BUDDING has-filed
a Petition No. 4530 of 1964 for Divorce on
the ground of desertion. If you wish to defend
vou may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry. Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street. Sydney, on or before the 24th
day of May. 1965 arid obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from JAMES L.
DIAMOND & CO. Solicitors, of 25 O'Connell
Street, Sydney. —C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: JEREMIAH MULVIHILL. formerly of
Panania. TAKE NOTICE that SHIRLEY
DAWN MULVIHILL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4235 of 1964 on the ground of
cruelty notwithstanding the facts and cir-
cumstances set out in the Discretion State-
ment filed. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before 15th day of May,
1965, and obtain a copv of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. S. T. HODGE &
CO.. Solicitors, of 4 Castlereaeh Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: GUENTER LESZINSKY, late of C/-
Hospital. Lewisham. TAKE NOTICE
that HETTY LESZINSKY has filed -a Petition
for Divorce No. 4188 of 1964 on the ground
of desertion. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answe.r in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building. Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before 18th May, 1965,
and obtain a copy of the Petition -and Notice
of the Petition without charge from MESSRS.
K. B. MORGAN & CO., Solicitors, of 46
Darcy Street, Parramatta. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF TASMANIA
(Divorce)
No. M.C. 37 of 1965
BETWEEN
SHIRLEY JANE MEDCRAFT, Petitioner
and
KEVIN JOHN MEDCRAFT, Respondent.
TO: KEVIN JOHN MEDCRAFT, formerly of
57 Goldie Street, Wynyard, in Tasmania, but
whose present address is unknown. TAKE
NOTICE that SHIRLEY JANE MEDCRAFT
has filed a Divorce Petition against you on
the ground of desertion. Included in the
Petition is a claim for custody of the children
of the marriage, maintenance for the said
SHIRLEY JANE MEDCRAFT and the said
children and costs. AND TAKE NOTICE that
if you intend to defend the Petition you must
file an Answer within twenty-eight days of
the publication of this notice at the Registry
of the Supreme Court of Tasmania, Murray
Street, Hobart, in Tasmania, from which
address further information can be obtained,
otherwise the Court may hear and determine
the proceedings in your absence. Dated
this 19th day of March. 1965. BUTLER
McINTYRE & BUTLER. 22 Murray Street,
Hobart. C. BRETTINGHAM - MOORE,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: BARRY JOHN LOWE, formerly of Gran-
ville. TAKE NOTICE that WENDY LOR-
RAINE LOWE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3776 of 1964 on the ground of desertion.
If you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street. Sydney, on or
before 15th day of May. 1965, and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. S. T. HODGE & CO., Solicitors, of
4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS. Registrar.
TO: THOMAS ALFRED BOSWORTH of 66
Station Road, St. Leonards. Tasmania, address
now unknown. TAKE NOTICE that your
wife PATRICIA MAUD LINLEY BOSWORTH
has presented a Petition to the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for a decree of
dissolution of marriage against you on the
ground of your failure to pay maintenance.
If you wish to defend the Petition or in-
stitute proceedings against the Petitioner you
must file an Answer in Central Office of the
Supreme Court of Western Australia at Perth
within 28 days after the date of this publica-
tion. In default of you so doing the suit
may proceed and the Court will pronounce
judgment and make orders against you in
vour absence. Dated the 29th day of March,
1965. ILBERY TOOHEY & BARBLETT of 98
St. George’s Terrace. Perth, Western Aus-
tralia, Solicitors for the Petitioner. G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar.
Public Notices
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF QUEENS-
LAND held at Mackav, No. 6 of 1964, between
FREDERICK LIONEL HARNETT and
PATRICIA ANNE HARNETT (Plaintiffs) and
MYLES JOSEPH LYONS (Defendant), formerly
of Blair Athol. To the Defendant: Take
Notice that a summons as above returnable
on 29th June, 1965. has issued claiming
damages against you for bodily injuries to
both plaintiffs and for damage to property
of the first plaintiff arising from a collision
between motor vehicles near Sarina on 10th
October, 1963; and that a copy of the summons
may be obtained on application to the
Registrar. Dated this 22nd day of March,
1965. (Signed) A. E. GREENWOOD, Registrar.
IN THE MATTER of the Wills and Estates
of SARAH HANNAH LLOYD, deceased, and
JULIA EMMA LLOYD (sometimes known as
Julie Emma Lloyd), deceased, each late of
Serpentine Road, Albany, in the State of
Western Australia. ALL PERSONS claiming
to be children of THOMAS LLOYD believed
to have died in Melbourne, Victoria, between
One thousand nine hundred and thirty and
One thousand nine hundred and forty, who
was a son of THOMAS LLOYD and HARRIETT
LLOYD (nee EVANS) and brother of the
abovenamed SARAH HANNAH LLOYD and
JULIA EMMA LLOYD and which children
may be beneficiaries under the Wills of the
said SARAH HANNAH LLOYD who died on
the twentieth day of November one thousand
nine hundred and thirty-eight at Albany in
the State of Western Australia, and of JULIA
EMMA LLOYD (sometimes known as Julie
Emma Lloyd) who died on the Twenty-eighth
day of July One thousand nine hundred and
fifty six at Albany aforesaid are required to
give notice of their claims and to prove their
relationship to the said THOMAS LLOYD to
the executors of the Will of HARRIETT
LLOYD late of Serpentine Road. Albany,
aforesaid deceased who as such executors are
the persons administering the estates of the
said SARAH HANNAH LLOYD and the said
JULIA EMMA LLOYD on or before the
Thirty-first day of May One thousand nine
hundred and sixty-five such notice and proof
to be given to the said executors. C/- Box 485,
Post Office, Albany, Western Australia.
FREDERICK WILLIAM FIELD
Will the abovenamed or any person knowing
his whereabouts please communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, P.O. Box 196,
Timaru, New Zealand.
The Portents of Drought
Graziers recall the early cycles
mms is one little story which the author
sincerely hopes will be proved to
be 100 p.c. wrong before anyone even
reads it. - The fears of drought are
mounting.
There are already 18 drought pro-
claimed areas in New South Wales and
nine more to be proclaimed any day now.
The Snowy, one of the most reliable of
all Australian rivers, is at its lowest in
the Cooma area in many years.
At Dalgety there are fears that unless
an emergency dam is constructed rapidly
there will be little water next year, be-
cause of the water to be drawn off into
the main Snowy diversion scheme. Dal-
gety, in NSW, is directly north of the
Gippsland area of Victoria ravaged by
bushfires in recent weeks.
From the Alps down to Bairnsdale,
near where the Snowy reaches the sea, it
may be a poorer winter and a poorer
summer for pasture. The portents of a
drought are evident.
The north of NSW is dry, particularly
around the Casino area —another usually
reliable district. The Hunter Valley,
which has had some terrible droughts,
is looking bad enough for some graziers
to recall 1942.
North Queensland, the Northern Ter-
ritory and Central Australia have had
drought conditions for a Tong time.
There was heavy rain in the north a
few weeks back and it was reported that
the drought had broken. But follow-up
rains have yet to materialise.
This is how droughts announce them-
selves. There is rain, though in gradu-
ally lessening frequency and quantity.
There was unusually heavy rain in the
southern part of the continent last spring,
resulting in record crops and high stands
of grass. This, the oldtimers declare, is
another portent. It was too good, and
after the flush comes the drought.
Apart from the far north and the
centre, most farming districts have had
good seasons for nearly 20 years. Wheat
is being grown in parts never considered
reliable in the past. A generation has
grown up that does not know the mean-
ing of drought. Once, not so long ago,
in the ’twenties and 'thirties, men lived
in constant dread of it. It permeated
their entire lives.
If you believe in cycles, then consider
that the first thirty or forty years of the
pastoral age in Australia were bountiful.
Stock multiplied and men grew rich. The
grass was never-ending. Then came the
disasters of the ’seventies and 'eighties,
and a period of constantly recurring
drought years.
You may not believe in cycles
there are scientists who would support
you. Our records just do not go back
far enough.
Drought is all we need, really, what
with wool prices down, a big wheat
surplus perhaps, increased defence com-
mitments, and an urban population cla-
moring for more education facilities,
more housing and more money in pay
envelopes. We ought not to forget that
by world standards Australia is a dry
continent.


news
the pattern of life today...
personalities
SUBSCRIPTIONS
26 weeks £2/12/- Aust.
£2/2/- Stg. and N.Z.
52 weeks £4/4/- Aust.
£3/7/- Stg. and N.Z.
Send dollar equivalents
to New York and Malay-
sian offices.
Air Mail New Guinea
£7/5/- 12 months. £4/2/6
6 months.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please tick \/ whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription?
A renewal subscription?
□ ° r
□
books
politics
arts
finance
The Bulletin
Australia's
leading journal
of fact
and
opinion
Post this coupon to THE BULLETIN, Box 4088, G.P.0., Syd-
ney; OR Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.), Ltd., P.O. Box 1595, Wel-
lington, C.IN.Z.; OR Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London; OR Australian Consolidated Press
Ltd., 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y.; OR Wool-
worths (Malaysia) Ltd., 10 Collyer Quay, Singapore.
New Zealand readers may receive the Air Freighted edition
at £2/12/- New Zealand for 26 issues, £4/4/- New Zealand
for 52 issues.
world events
well informed people
read The Bulletin
"The Bulletin” Crossword No. 842
ACROSS
I—Grey-speckled prelate swallows forbidden fruit. (7)
s—Puts5 —Puts the stomach to use magazines. (7)
8— A drink for Haile Selassie. (5)
9 Drawl of disordered New York accommodation for
the rich being murally isolated? (7)
11 — Earth Goddess to dye a place near Jerusalem. (7)
12 — Re-nurse secretly whoever makes certain. (7)
13— Will the international cricket article appear to be
written by chaps before tea. (9)
14— Nimble footed task force. (5)
15 —Careless hot method exhibited
in a Victorian cape. (5)
17 —Rimsky to induce an ill-effect
of over-smoking. (9)
20— Scotch gin among such super-
natural phenomena. (7)
21— Event in the coursing party
given by Rainier’s wife. (3, 4)
22 — Spread through and through.
(7)
23 Not put to the test hiding
under it. (7)
24 — Oath of those who drive land
rovers? (7)
25 One who makes a king lazy
through having Nero cur-
tailed. (7)
DOWN
1— Old assistance in towing
mounts upon drink. (13)
2 1-down describes Suffolk’s
thrown ini a box. (7)
3 A number of myths? (9, 6)
4 Liberate in record years. (7)
5 Wet side becomes most fresh-
ly water besprent. (7)
6 Fifty’s blows add anything to
royalty in response to slap-
stick. (5, 2,8)
7 Cur goes wild with the whip.
(7)'
10—Trees swell whoever finishes
with one who may not be
drastically punished by a
court. (5, 8)
16— A fleeting smell of the French
act like the jabberwock. (7)
17 — They're affectionate mugs? (7)
18 — About the reason for lacking
confidence in a defensive
work. (7)
19— Speech from Horatio Nelson.
(7)
Solution to Crossword No. 841


peg?:
!|««
«*'\
"*s
-»
■
>■%•■ —fMHr -
gg K**jS*ir ?'*'■'' ** VV ; K" ||
«►
WmMffS
wm
»
Wm®Sm* |sjjg
.^wssSSN^*^^
•• ■ »*■
Why Ballantine’s stands alone.
It takes 42 fine Highland Whiskies to make it
42 of them, each with its own individual character. Men skilled in the ways of fine Scotch
blend them in precise proportions, and each whisky adds a little of itself to help achieve
the end result—the pleasing, sunny-light flavour, the gentle disposition, that is Ballantine’s.
The mark of a truly great Scotch—Ballantine’s
The more you know about Scotch, the more you like Ballantine ’s.


• • •
V
>1
a beautiful look ap
P V
O
- 8 APR 1965
m\ n
p t IT r I
| -. . 1
rpp
nr
i fi
S4JL|
m
The all-new Holden looks like the kind of car you might have expected to come
out the vear after next. But its here now, with beautiful years-ahead styling that s
a look totally apart. It practically challenges you to drive it! And that’s only the
start. Inside’s roomier five inches wider, thanks to curved doors and windows.
Brakes are bigger. Boot’s bigger. You get a choice of three engines up to 140-h.p.
In fact, practically everything’s new right down to the road! Find out what driving
all-new HOLDEN
SAME LOW PRICES FROM £BB5 PLUS TAX
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN S
B 19!
