

T he Bulletin
WHAT'S WRONG
WITH LAWYERS?
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
THE CHIEF JUSTICE THE RIGHT HON SIR GARFIELD BARWICK GC M G._
OIL PAINTING BY W E PIDGEON


Enjoy life with CRAVEN FILTER
V
People who get most enjoyment from life get most
enjoyment in a cigarette from Craven Pilter. Buy a
pack today and discover for yourself that Craven
Filter are better than ever.
CRAVEN FILTER
Better than ever!
°RAVe n
QO9B


c
.dsTI 1
“They’ve just transferred me
to Bangkok. How soon can I
have my furniture up there?”
“About four days!”
Four days by Grace Bros. Airemovals of
course. But usually your possessions
would go by ship, in which case two
weeks would be a more likely time. How-
ever, if you’re really pressed, Grace Bros,
can arrange to have everything packed,
airfreighted, unpacked and installed for
you at the other end.
You simply hand over your keys, walk out
of the house, and move into your new
home with everything safe and in place.
What's more you don’t need to worry.
Grace Bros, take the most elaborate care
of every single item. Their packaging
methods set a world standard. How do
they do it? it’s all a matter of facilities.
They’re the largest removal organisation
in the Southern Hemisphere and have
agents and representatives in almost
every country.
Grace Bros, are on the move in a big way
wherever they operate. Most spectacular
of their current projects is the gigantic
new 30-acre, air-conditioned Roselands
shopping centre in Sydney—the largest
of its kind in the Southern Hemisphere.
And Grace Bros. Removals branches
stretch from Perth to Townsville.
All of which is weli worth knowing when
you’re faced with a move “Across the
Street or Across the World.’’
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • CANBERRA • HOBART
NEWCASTLE • TOWNSVILLE • LISMORE • MURWILLUMBAH • QUEANBEYAN
The Bulletin
Established 1880
AUGUST 23, 1965.
VOL. 87, No. 4461
NEVER AGAIN?
Report from Malaysia 33
WHAT’S WRONG WITH
LAWYERS?
The profession is on trial at the
Commonwealth Law Conference .. 24
SOLID FOR APOLLO?
The Astronauts 26
LINDSAYS BOHEMIA
But not The Banjo 28
TANNER ... 12 LETTERS .... 41
THIS AUSTRALIA
Sir Robert’s friends 14
Election jitters 15
The Budget 15
Paying the patients 19
Doctors in congress 21
OVERSEAS
New Zealand Newsletter 31
New York Newsletter 36
Vietnam: US blooding 37
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
Artist Blackman “Big, tough and
tender" 46
Swain at the Museum 46
FILMS: The Moon-spinners 48
TELEVISION: Cooking with Kerr 48
MUSIC: Van Otterloo conducts .... 50
THEATRE: the Hollow Crown .... 50
BUSINESS & FINANCE
An excellent Budget 57
Soviet economy and “ profits ’’ 64
Speculator’s Diary 78
MAN ON THE LAND
Selling wheat to Russia " 60
Editorial Office: 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


••V<V'V
m
WHEN MINING IS YOUR BUSINESS
!»«■
*
P
m
. .. WHEN YOU HANDLE LIQUIDS
7k ■
m
m
h
:
■*■ ‘ x ' : yv
m
:.: <
i
:>■ :
...whatever the job
GOODYEAR
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS PROVIDE YOU
WITH “TOTAL CAPABILITY”
This “Total Capability” carries right through every phase of Goodyear
activity, from the processing of raw materials to design and on to actual
installation.
With conveyor belting, transmission belting, hose or any industrial rubber
application, Goodyear industrial products offer not only “total capability”
but the long-term experience and know-how of the G.T.M. (Goodyear
Technical Man) in determining exact needs and meeting them efficiently
and economically.
If you have an industrial rubber problem, phone or write Industrial
Products Division of the Goodyear branch in your State.
GOODYEAR
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS
F 267


■m
■
Si***
-
| | | j: : , >f 1
ft- . -ft v- .-: :• ft . : •:•
m $
; I
SHOPKEEPERS! SPACEMEN!
So many people throughout the world rely on Burroughs
78 years ago, William Burroughs invented the first practical
key-driven adding machine. Today, Burroughs produces the
most complete range of adding machines in the world. But that
is only part of the story only part of Burroughs role in
furthering human advancement in business, industry and
space exploration.
Today, Burroughs is a world leader in the electronic computer
field. So much so that in over 285 space or launch vehicle
firings it was a giant complex of Burroughs-created, designed
and operated computers which plotted and controlled their
successful flight through the “key hole” to space.
Burroughs and every manned space flight. Burroughs
and the airborne early warning defence system covering the
Northern American continent. Burroughs and weather fore-
casting. Burroughs and mail handling for the U.S. Postal
Authorities. Burroughs and miniaturised data computers
for the Polaris nuclear submarine programme. Burroughs
and you. Your banking. Your pay cheque. So many people
rely on Burroughs. In 125 different countries in the largest
factories and probably, too, at the little shop down at
the corner.
Burroughs
8U217


C.I.G. is oxygen...
the breath of life
Fast action. It takes fast action to'save life...in
accidents, electrocution, shock, heart attack,
suffocation, gas poisoning.... In hospitals, ambu-
lances, first-aid posts. And on our beaches where
summer days bring near-drowning... That action
is Oxygen gently forced into the victim's lungs
to restart or strengthen breathing. Oxygen must
always be ready for fast action. C.l.G.'s Medical
Division sees that it is. C.I.G. makes certain that it
is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
And equipment: from the small but now world-
famous "Air-Viva", up through a wide range of
resuscitation and respiration units.
In fact C.1.G., one of the world's leaders in this field,
manufactures, supplies and services practically
all equipment of this nature used in Australia.
<>>■
The Air-Viva specifically designed to give instant resuscitation in all
cases of respiratory failure. This unit can be used successfully even by an
unskilled person who carefully follows the simple instructions printed in-
side its carrying case. Uses atmospheric air, functions anywhere, any-
time. Oxygen can be introduced without interrupting the breathing cycle.
This is C.I.G.
Today and every day
C.S.G. Medical Gases and equipment are
saving lives and relieving pain.
CIG
THE COMMONWEALTH INDUSTRIAL GASES LIMITED
13060


k A
onsni
Rfo j|^
z:
ft
sx
9 I
*** »*/*
STEP INTO FRANCE
when you board U.T.A. FRENCH AIRLINES to EUROPE ... via Singapore or Tahiti
4/
-
r
* *
3
V
; v r V
r
i 3
p
mi*
i-^***y
"^3
V '
i\SV.
S
Flying the fastest route to Europe,
see fabulous Singapore.
On your way to Europe via U S.A.
relax in the gold and blue of Tahiti
Only UTA jets you the FASTEST ROUTE to
EUROPE non-stop from Sydney to Singapore
—then on to Karachi, Athens, PARIS/LONDON.
Every Wednesday the great UTA turbo fan jet soars
away from Sydney direct to Singapore, by-passing
Darwin. From Singapore you fly fast to Paris via
Karachi and Athens . . . and of course we can bring
you back again just as fast. If you wish to break your
journey in Europe, we have 45 flights weekly from
Athens, linking 80 great European cities.
or fly from Sydney via the U.S.A. every Wednes-
day with colourful stopovers at TAHITI and
LOS ANGELES . . . then on to PARIS and
LONDON, too!
Coming or going you can relax en route at the Pacific
Eden of Tahiti. And at every stopover our Welcome
Service is there to smooth away your problems with
knowledgeable details about the city or region ... or
to help you enjoy your stay by planning tours, arrang-
ing accommodation, working out exchange ... in fact
serving your travel need in eVery possible way.
FLY FRENCH, AND SAY 'VIVE LA DIFFERENCE
A
*
A
A
A
Contact your Travel Agent or
THE WORLD’S LARGEST NETWORK
•3 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY. 28 0471 • 327 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 62 1635 • 49 CREEK STREET, BRISBANE. 2 8358
S 870 A


Mg
■
:
IS
FUJI ELECTRIC
SYMBOL OF BETTER LIVING
THERE’S NO SUBSTITUTE
For what??
For EXPERIENCE—in the design and
construction of dependable modern
electric power systems.
And that's why FUJI ELECTRIC shines
we’ve polished our engineering know-
ledge, manufacturing techniques and
construction methods in the crucible of
experience —for more than half-a-centu-
ry. That's why Fuji can give you the
electric power system that you need-
the electric power system that assures
steady and sustained social and in-
dustrial development.
For the power that spells PROGRESS,
consult FUJI Electric, Japan's leader
in atomic energy and integrated manu-
facturer of electrical systems, equip-
ment and components. From drawing
board to dynamo, from turbine to trans-
mission line, let Fuji’s experience work
fpr you.
I'll JI ELECTRIC CO,LTD, IFUJI DHNKI SEIZO K.K,} Head Office: Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan Cable: DENKIFUJI TOKYO


National Notebook
“It Just Amt Poetry "
'C'oetal positioned. Now I like that,
A says Dr Grace Perry. It is one of
the few things Dr Perry, seated at the
head of a trestle table of aspiring poets
at the second session of the Sydney North
Shore Arts Festival’s Literary pro-
gramme, has liked for the last half hour
or so.
The workshop, mornings only, is being
conducted on stage at the Hunter’s Hill
Town Hall, behind dark curtains on one
side and pink scrims on the other three.
The atmosphere is womblike, and the
poems that get passed around in roneoed
form are pretty womblike too.
A young man has written about an
ethereal, enigmatic creature called Isobel,
who disembowels a dove in the winter
twilight. The young lecturer in English
from Newcastle asks if it’s quite clear.
“Well, it’s obvious Isobel is a little girl
. . . one of those sweet, angelic little
fiends . . . isn’t she?”
“Oh, no. She’s a fantasy figure. A
demonic love goddess. Surely?”
Everyone seems quite at home with
demonic goddess figures. It must be hell
to be a young man, hell to be young, in
love. It must also be hell for the young
girl who has written a poem about her
bedridden mother.
“Isn’t it a poem about lack of com-
munication?”
“But she is communicating,” says the
nice lady who smokes Stuyvesants, and
writes about God.
“She can’t be. You don’t say things
like that to sick people in hospitals.”
“But is the writer in hospital at the
time?”
“She’s at home, thinking over the
washing up.”
“Well,” says Dr Perry. “Whatever it
is, it just ain't poetry.”
What is? The young lecturer decides,
with only an hour and a dozen poems to
go, that the question can be left until
later. Mankind has managed without
knowing for a long time.
It is also hell for the woman who has
written “The Abortion”. Or is it a
woman? Workshops work better, says Dr
Perry, if you don’t know too much about
the poet at the outset.
“Is the ‘world peopled with pain’ in
the second part external or interior?”
“It's the traffic outside.”
“No it’s not. It’s the unknown world
of the uterus.”
“How can she be in a foetal position
if she's being operated on?” asks Dr
Perry.
“But it’s in the past tense. She’s dying,
you see,” says the quiet woman who
wrote it.
“But that spoils the whole irony. The
part about ‘unknowingly she killed her-
self.”
Doctor Grace quibbles about “veins
collapsing one by one”. Apparently they
all go at once.
“Well, if you’ve never actually died
55
“It’s much better if you leave her alive,
I think. But that’s just my opinion.”
Writing a poem is a technical business.
Beyond the black curtains, other people
nice women in tweedy suits, boys in
sweaters and desert boots are going
through the same mill with their short
stories. Probably the same terms, such
as muscular framework, “persona” and
“extension” are being tossed around there
too.
At lunch, over the soup and the
pickled onions left from the Monday
night gala opening, everyone is modest,
even- apologetic.
“I don’t actually get much time for
writing.”
“It’s just a hobby.”
“It’s the first thing I've ever done and
I know it's awful.”
If you .pick up anything at all, it’s how
to cut corners on the housework.
It was much the same on opening
night, as one looked about, dutifully, for
distinguished writers. Where was Mor-
ris? Patrick? Kylie Tennant dashed about
in a red dress, introducing people to Sir
John Northcott.
Someone pointed out an elderly man
with spectacles.
“That’s Robbie Fitzgerald.”
“Who? . . . Oh, you mean R. D. Fitz-
gerald.”
But there’s such a crush, while R. D.
talks to John Thompson, that one stays
by the bar, where a familiar face from
the Elizabethan Trust is showing the
flag, as he puts it.
“Think I'll sneak home later. I just
live nearby.”
One is left with a nice woman who
writes children’s books.
“I always think she’s more human than
other sorts of writers,” says her friend,
who writes romantic short stories. “Do
you know Elizabeth Kata? Did you rea-
lise the end was coming the way it did
in ‘Be Ready With Bells and Drums’?”
“No.”
“Oh, good. I didn’t either.”
But Elizabeth Kata isn’t there. Or Mor-
ris, or Patrick.
“I wrote a children’s book myself
once about two elephants who joined
Hannibal’s army. Mostly illustrations,
really.”
“Oh? I don’t believe in wars,” says
the children’s writer. “Tell me, do you
let your children watch ‘Samurai’?”
Where, then, is the modern writer?
It is not the woman sitting next to
you, quietly napping through the open-
ing night speeches from three Sydney
publishers.
Dr Andrew Fabinyi, from Cheshires,
is hampered by lack of a microphone
for most of his speech, but two things
emerge. He doesn’t like “Candy” and he
believes Australian writers are in world
class.
The man from Collins says there
are so many exciting things to write
"Let's do o special about unemployed, dope-taking, alcoholic, unmarried ,
teenage mothers who have abortions, get VD and play the poker machines
at the RSL."


m
fii
■>'
A# / / .„/'"
i; ' !S f
»/x
r\
!
WM
X.
-3
-
-a L: :#^.
XL
when young Bobby
has his own business.
. . . chances are he’ll be using Phil-
gas from Phillips 66, world’s
largest producers and marketers of
L.P. Gas. Clean-burning Philgas is
ideal for flame cutting, drying tun-
nels and ovens, aerosol propellants,
saltbath heating. In fact, wherever
and whenever heat is required in
industry or the home Philgas is the
efficient, low-cost answer. Philgas
also offers tremendous savings as
fuel for fork lift trucks, other indus-
trial trucks and stationary engines.
Philgas brings to Australia a wealth
of experience and know-how in L.P.
Gas that will benefit homemakers,
commerce and every industry today
and all the young "Bobbys”,
businessmen of the future.
©PHILGAS
From the world's largest LP. Gas Company


about drilling for oil at Esperance
Bay, growing rice at Humpty Doo, life
among the tycoons of Sydney.
The woman from Angus and Robert-
son’s parries a jibe from the Collins
man, who now owns George Johnston.
“We had him first, though. We’re a
nursery, if you understand.”
Publishers are lovely, kindly people,
she explains. A very bad manuscript
may be returned in as little as 24 hours.
Ha ha. And a good one? Accepted in
24 hours, but if it’s a good bad one it
takes longer. We’ll really try to give you
a break. We’ll even publish novels that
are quite bad, if we feel something good
will follow.
We’re not monsters, really. Listen now,
all you people out there.
But where are all the writers?
George and Patrick and Morris prob-
ably know all this already. And Ruth
and Darcy.
But the lady in the fur coat is quite
inspired.
“I shall go home immediately and
write,” she says.
A Few Words
Tj'oß, 10, the winter is past, the rain
L is over and gone. . . and the voice
of the academic and expert is heard in
our land. Spring in Australia-is the
season of conferences, congresses,
seminars and annual general meetings
with speakers jumping to their feet as
readily as the jonquils break ground.
Here are some samples of what has been
said over the past week:
• A recent survey by the Universities
of Sydney and NSW showed that the
average family income in Sydney is £42
a week. This is because in many families
there are a number of earners. In the
17 per cent of families where the wives
work the average family income is £4B.
Professor H. R. Edwards, Professor of
Economic Theory at Sydney University,
and Professor C. Gates, Professor of
Economics at the University of Queens-
land, at ANZAAS Congress, Hobart.
• The upper limit of the world’s
population may be 7500 million, which
could be reached by the year 2010. How-
ever, other calculations have put the
ceiling limit at anything between 28,000
million and 90,000 million. Professor
J. R. A. McMillan, Professor of Agri-
culture at the University of Sydney, at
ANZAAS Congress, Hobart.
• There is no evidence that the rising
figures for venereal disease are directly
connected with increased lack of
chastity. The apparent increase could
be confined to certain sections of the
population who form a - kind of reservoir
of infection. Dr Morven Brown, Pro-
fessor of Sociology at Sydney University,
at ANZAAS Congress, Hobart.
• Many Australian youths who have
copied the Beatles’ hairstyle have
developed serious acne. Dr Brian
Entwisle, of Melbourne, at Australian
Medical Congress, Perth.
• Canberra has now been the seat of
Federal Government long enough for
the sons and daughters of public ser-
vants to become public servants also. In
most instances Canberra and their own
particular Department are the start and
finish of their experience. Mr George
Clark, President of the Sydney Chamber
of Commerce, at the Chamber’s annual
meeting.
• Teenagers from lower-class homes
have significantly less aesthetic apprecia-
tion than middle-class groups; they are
more “Fascist inclined”, but all groups
can be lumped together on politics as
“one solid, ignorant mass”. Dr D. J.
Drinkwater, of Queensland University, at
ANZAAS Congress, Hobart.
• Farmers could graze a certain
number of kangaroos and “harvest”
them each year by shooting. Apart from
the need to conserve kangaroos for
scientific and aesthetic purposes, they
have been shown to be capable of
supporting a not inconsiderable industry
in meat and hides. Dr H. J. Frith, of
CSIRO’s Wildlife Research Division, at
ANZAAS Congress, Hobart.
® Granny’s method of applying heat
to a backache is just as efficacious as
modern, well-advertised and expensive
machines. Dr R. D. McKeUer Hall at
Australian Medical Congress, Perth.
• Indiscriminate mining of black
sand on the east Australian coast might
lead to unprecedented erosion. The
history of man’s intervention in natural
processes is one of almost continuing
disaster. Dr J. N. Jennings, Professorial
Fellow in Geomorphology, ANU, at
ANZA AS Congress, Hobart.
Holy Ground
r | ■'hose who do not fully appreciate the
almost holy atmosphere of Mel-
bourne football may learn something
from this. It appeared on the sporting
page of the “Melbourne Herald” under
the name of Alf Brown:
“A friend went into South Mel-
bourne’s rooms to listen to coach Bob
Skilton’s address before the Melbourne
game. A minor South official approached
him, as Skilton began to speak, with an
important message: ‘The President asks
would you mind taking your hat off
while the coach is addressing the
players.’
“My friend, who could hear no anthem
being played and could see no Royalty
present, left, stunned. But he kept his
hat on.”
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, THE BIBLE, AND THE UNIVERSITY
ffij^ulCetCsi
80 Years Ago: September 5, 1885
world has changed much since the
Chief Justice of New South Wales, Sir
James Martin, was "a little child." When
he lisped prayers at the maternal knee,
everyone who climbed the witness-box in
our Courts of Law kissed the Bible as
a preliminary to being believed. His
Honor regrets the departure of these old
days. Impudent people, he says, now
ask to be believed without kissing the
Book. To His Honor, this Is a sign of
fatal decadence.
We don't think it a decadence at all.
On the contrary we think it a step up-
wards in the scheme of civilisation. As
a matter of social ethics, the essential
object is to bind a witness to the truth.
Can he be bound by forcing him through
a formula in which he does not believe?
The end is more reasonably approached
by the exhibition of legal penalties.
Finally, atheists escape kissing the
Bible in New South Wales, but only by
making a public confession of disbelief
in it. Now, we have outlived religious
tests. They are abolished. For no civil
function is a man asked to state his
religious convictions. Why, then, should
he be obliged, before being allowed to
tell the truth in a court of law, to make
public profession of his irreligious con-
viction? It looks like an unworthy at-
tempt to make the path of heterodoxy as
rough as possible,
A ★ ★
HTHE decision by the Chief Justice, Sir
X 'James Martin, to contest the vacant
seat in the Senate of the Sydney Uni-
versity, and the consequent decision by
the head of the Anglican Church, Dr
Barry, to withdraw his candidature, will
give general satisfaction. It is a vast
gain to the principle of secularisation in
education. It effectually extinguishes
clerical pretension; while, at the same
time, it deprives the defeated party of
the power to impute to Secularism bigotry
or intolerance, since Sir James Martin is
a staunch churchman,
The admission of one ecclesiastical dig-
nitary must lead to that of another. It
cannot be forced upon the people that
the only eligible dignitary is the Angli-
can one. Hence the war of creeds is
foreshadowed. Judge Windeyer and those
acting with him merit the thanks of the
community for having saved the colony
from the seeds of evil.


Tanner
"But have we the moral right to interfere in the domestic affairs of other countries?"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Mr Adermann's Trick
TVhe referendum Bill brought before
A Parliament last week by Mr Ader-
mann, the Minister for Primary Pro-
duction, is only the latest, if worst,
piece of evidence that Sir William Gunn
and his enthusiasts intend, by fair
means or otherwise, to get their floor-
price scheme for wool adopted in the
face of mounting opposition. Of all
the anomalies in Sir William Gunn’s
campaign, none is more absurd
than the qualifications laid down
for voting by woolgrowers in this re-
ferendum. Voting will be on a one-
man-one-vote basis, it will be compul-
sory, and the minimum qualification
will be either an annual production of
ten or more bales of wool or owner-
ship for 300 sheep.
Three hundred sheep! This means
that a primary producer who may pro-
duce not a single pound of wool, or a
few bales at the most, will have the
same voting power as a man who
grows from 50 to 130 bales of wool
and who is the backbone of the wool
industry. Consider, for instance (and
this is a fairly common sort of case), an
orchardist who buys 300 shorn lambs
to clean up the weeds on his property,
then resells them without shearing
them. Not a single pound of wool
comes from his property, yet he is entitl-
ed to a vote. Then there is the man who
may own 150 breeding ewes, each
with a lamb. His total output would
be no more than two or three bales
of wool. Yet he, too, gets a vote. In
light of this, the supposedly minimum
qualification of producing ten bales of
wool is deliberately misleading. It is
neither more nor less than a trick.
Time and time again the Wool
Board, the Government and the Aus-
tralian Wool Industry Conference have
had before them the unchallengeable
facts of the structure of the wool in-
dustry. While 15,000 larger wool-
growers produce nearly 60 per cent
of the Australian wool clip, some
90,000 small growers produce only
about 40 per cent of all wool grown.
In these circumstances a multiple
system of voting in a referendum would
be the only equitable one. Yet repeat-
ed pleas for just recognition of the
rights and commonsense views of the
numerically inferior producers of the
great bulk of the wool clip have been
ignored, first by the AWIC, now by
the Minister.
A month ago, in a moment of ob-
jectivity, Sir William Gunn stated that
he did not consider the proposed voting
principle in the referendum to be a fair
proposition. He suggested a multiple
voting system weighted in favor of the
grower shearing between 1500 and
4000 sheep. But then Sir William went
on to claim it was not for him to re-
commend such a multiple voting system;
that it was a matter for the AWIC
to put to the Minister. How ingenuous
can Sir William get? Or, if he was sin-
cere then, what a specious dodging of
responsibility now. From the start, the
floor-price plan has been Sir William’s
“baby”. It was he who won over
the AWIC. It is incredible to suppose
'hat he could not have persuaded
had he wanted to the AWIC to
accept a multiple voting system as the
most equitable and the one in the best
interests of the wool industry. Even
in the face of any AWIC opposition he
could have put a convincing case to
the Minister, who had the final respon-
sibility for introducing the Bill.
Again, why has Mr Adermann made
voting compulsory? One can only as-
sume Mr Adermann knows that the in-
difference of the side-liners or their lack
of information about the weaknesses of
the scheme the fact that it won’t
work, that it will lead to stockpiling,
to bureaucratic control, to Govern-
ment acquisition will strengthen the
vote for the scheme. In this, of course,
he may well be right. But in that case
he is guilty of stacking the vote against
the people who have committed their
lives to wool in an election which is
to decide the future of wool.
In light of last week’s legislation,
Mr Adermann, Sir William Gunn and
the AWIC may well believe that adop-
tion of the scheme is almost a fait ac-
compli. Mr Adermann may, however,
have overplayed his cards and the
proposed rigged election should bring
home to woolgrowers the real
character of the campaign behind the
scheme. The defects of the reserve-price
scheme, the Wool Board’s misuse
of funds, Sir William Gunn’s fondness
for making Australian trade dependent
on Communist countries have been
bad enough. The Adermann legislation
may be the last straw.
A Tour for the Tunku?
Qam Lipski reports from Kuala
Lumpur in this issue (see story
page 23) on the new and promising
defence arrangements between in-
dependent Singapore and Malaysia.
The Singapore Infantry Regiment
has v left for a tour of duty to help
Malaysia defend the Borneo Territories
and a combined Defence Council and
a Combined Operations Council have
been established. This augurs well for
the proposed tripartite defence agree-
ment between Britain, Singapore and
Malaysia and the new bilateral defence
agreement between Singapore and
Malaysia.
Australia is of course deeply con-
cerned that these proposed arrange-
ments work and work well. But the
need to rebuild bridges is as much a
matter of public opinion as of military
arrangements, and there is no point in
denying that recent developments
have, at least to some extent, shaken
popular confidence in the stability of
this region to which we had committed
forces. The fact that Singapore receiv-
ed a better Press in Australia during
this crisis than did Kuala Lumpur was
in no small measure due to the success
of Lee Kuan / Yew , s recent tour of Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. It is surely
time that the Federal Government in-
vited Tunku Abdul Rahman and Tun
Abdul Razak to visit Australia.


THIS AUSTRALIA
PARLIAMENT
Sir Robert’s Friends
The domestic front
BILLY SNEDDEN
W. C. WENTWORTH
By ALAN REID
On occasions Prime Minister Sir Robert Menzies must give solemn thanks for
the kind of political opponents who confront him in the Federal Parliament. Last
week showed their value to him.
He and his Cabinet colleagues were in
trouble on a variety of domestic fronts.
The troubles were far from unimportant.
When a Government has a majority in
the House of Representatives of the kind
that the Menzies Government has (20),
its real fear must be internal dissension —
which begins to be serious when it has an
ideological content. In the last week’s
Government dissension there was a high
ideological content.
First there w'as the IPEC matter. IPEC
is a firm of carriers. It wanted to operate
an interstate air freight service. The
Civil Aviation Department would not
let it, because of the Government's two
airline policy (Ansett-ANA and TAA).
IPEC appealed to the courts. The com-
pany's right to a licence to operate such
a service was upheld. But permission
to import the aircraft necessary to oper-
ate the service was refused. IPEC
appealed (to the Privy Council) against
this decision.
While the appeal was actually under
way, the Menzies Government altered its
regulations in such a way as to give the
impression that the Government was not
so much interested in having the case
decided on the principles involved, as
in “outsmarting” IPEC, and frustrating
the company in the exercise of its legal
rights.
Party room critics in a debate initiated
by Mr William Wentworth (Lib. NSW),
tended to concentrate upon the “snide”
aspects of the Government’s approach to
the legal proceedings. If this had been
all there was to it, Menzies would have
had little reason for worry. He could
have rapped the knuckles of young,
mistake-prone Attorney-General Billie
Snedden (which he did), cleared the way
for IPEC to exhaust its legal entitlements,
and let it go at that.
But Menzies, an old dog in the politi-
cal breeze, had smelled the breeze well
in advance of the issue being brought
in to the Party room. He knew there
was considerably more to it than Govern-
ment legal shenanigans to out-manoeuvre
a company whose aviation ambitions
were turning it into an embarrassing
nuisance to the Government. He knew
that the basic question the men, who
would sit quietly in the Party room while
the Wentworths and more fiery types
ventilated the issue, would either ask
then, or get round to asking afterwards,
was, “Can a Government justify the use
of Government powers and authority to
maintain a monopoly for a privately
owned concern in that area of an indus-
try that Government had earmarked, not
for a particular firm, but for private
enterprise?”
Menzies undoubtedly knew that there
was a principle involved in this —a prin-
ciple sufficiently large in the eyes of
many of his Liberal supporters as to set
them at each other’s throats if there was
disagreement. So when the matter was
raised in the Party room, Menzies had
already taken precautionary steps. He
told his Government followers he had
already conferred with IPEC representa-
tives. He would confer further. The
whole issue and its implications would be
the subject of further study.
Then there was the floor-price-for-
wool question. Rightly or wrongly, a
strong section of the Liberal Party be-
lieve that the Government when dealing
with this commodity (vital to Australia
as it provides the bulk of its overseas
earnings) is getting up to tactics which
have the same cheaply opportunist flavor
as those which marked the legal out-
smarting of IPEC.
There is a suspicion that the Govern-
ment is supinely going to allow the pro-
posed referendum by woolgrowers to be
rushed on, soon after the enabling legisla-
tion gets through the Parliament later
this year, to prevent time being given
for the presentation of the case against
the scheme as at present envisaged.
Two things contributing to this suspi-
cion are (1) while the Government is
paying fervent lip-service to the necessity
for the woolgrowers to cast an informed
vote, it has still not insisted upon the
production of the report to the executive
of the wool conference, though it is upon
this report that the recommendations for
the scheme are based, and (2) the refusal
by Mr Snedden, in his capacity as
Attorney-General, to give the formal
permission necessary for a protesting
grower to test the legal right of the wool
board to expend funds collected from
woolgrowers upon a campaign of this
nature.
Again there is the possibility of trouble
here—big trouble—with the chance of
the division widening and deepening into
a division roughly between the Liberal
and their junior partners, the Country
Party.
But while these represent troubles for
Menzies, he can rely upon his enemies—
Opposition Leader Calwell and the
Labor Party—to come to his assistance
upon the larger issues, like defence and
international affairs, which involve sur-
vival and consequently dwarf the other
issues and make those who, in different
circumstances, would carry the fight on
them to retreat, because they believe
that Calwell, and the Labor Party, does
not represent an acceptable alternative
Government.
As things stand there has been (and
the 1963-64 Federal election result is a
monument to this) only marginal com-
plaint on Australian support for the
United States and involvement in Viet-
nam. Even, on what would seem to be
the much deeper emotive issue of the
use of 20-year-old conscripts in zones of
active war operations in Vietnam, there
seems little opposition, and even in some
cases is clearly inspired rather than


spontaneous. There was surprisingly
little reaction against the Government’s
Budget raising income tax and the price
of beer, spirits, cigarettes and petrol.
Looking at the Budget from a purely
political viewpoint, there does seem rea-
son to believe that the Australian public
is in a mood to accept heavier defence
commitments and the financial levies
necessary to meet such commitments.
Calwell in his attitude on these things
has perceptibly moved to the Left, par-
ticularly since he accepted a place oh
the Left-wing dominated Victorian ALP
Conference. As Menzies pointed out in
Thursday night’s debate, Calwell earlier
this year accepted the fact of Chinese
intervention in the Vietnam struggle and
the necessity for the presence of the US
in the area, but now views Vietnam as a
civil war situation and is ambiguous
about the United States position.
Superimpose things like this on the
other damage Labor has been doing
to itself over recent weeks (unity tickets,
State Aid, etc.) and you get an ironic
situation.
Labor is not only safeguarding Menzies
against any punishment at the hands of
the electors for his domestic short-
comings and misdeeds, it is also helping
to keep Liberal restlessness within
bounds. Restless Liberals might not like
some of the things their own Government
is doing, but they like less the thought
of a Calwell-led and Left-wing dominated
Labor Party as an alternative Govern-
\ ment. Last week was a week in which
Menzies has more cause to be grateful
to his enemies than to his friends.
POLITICS
Election Jitters
December is the favored month
By BRIAN JOHNS
A sign of the strength of the political impact of the Federal Budget has been
the nervous speculation in some quarters of the possibility of an early Federal election.
While senior Government members
last week utterly discounted the theory,
there were others who pointed out that
the Budget and its reception did leave
the initiative completely with the Prime
Minister, Sir Robert Menzies, should he
choose to go to the country.
Election jitters were highest among
Labor men, although among DLP of-
ficials there were no regrets over a recent
conference decision to have DLP
branches expedite the pre-selection of
candidates in case of an early poll. Con-
cern about the election was linked with
the long-continuing rumor of the Prime
Minister's probable retirement.
The timing of this movable feast is
now set for “early next year”. This be-
comes a factor in election speculation
because, among those who consider that
an early election is possible, December
is the favored month. An election at
this time would allow the Government
to bring the House of Representatives
and Senate polls back into line by hold-
ing a joint-election for both Houses by
June, 1968.
Against this, however, is the fact that
a December poll would mean the risky
business of an election for one Senate
place in each of New South Wales, Vic-
toria, and Queensland. These places
would have to be contested since they
are casual vacancies caused by the deaths
of Senator Vincent from Western Aus-
tralia, Senator Wade from Victoria, and
by the retirement of Senator Sir William
Spooner from New South Wales. A poll
for these positions would be risky because
the Government would have to win the
three places to preserve its current num-
bers in the Senate.
The outcome of last week’s Federal
Labor Caucus meeting was a prelude to
the Budget spur of election speculation.
Although no one really expected any
move for “a spill” which would oust the
Leader of the Opposition, Mr Calwell,
by the time the meeting came round, the
result did in fact seal Mr Calwell’s pro-
clamation at the ALP Federal Conference
that, “God willing”, he would lead the
Labor Party at the next election. There
is now no possibility in sight of any move
being made by Caucus.
Whenever the election is held, under
Mr Calwell's leadership, and in view of
the Federal ALP Conference disaster,
and the economy showing every sign of
being healthy, the Opposition faces the
prospect of losing a further 12 to 13
seats. This calculation can be made
from a confidential report prepared by
the Federal ALP secretary, Mr Cyril
Wyndham, based on the results of the
New South Wales and Senate elections.
One “poll”, in which Labor can ex-
pect to play a more effective role, is the
referendum which will almost certainly
be held before the end-of-year. The re-
ferendum will be to decide whether the
Constitution can be changed to break
the nexus between the House of Repre-
sentatives and the Senate, which would
allow the Government to enlarge the
Lower House. The Opposition has
already committed itself to supporting
a change in the Constitution on this.
THE BUDGET
Holt’s Lost
Chance
“Business as usual ”
By J. C. HORSFALL
It was not to be expected that in last
week’s Budget Mr Holt would go out
of his way to penalise business. But in
letting it off scot-free in current cir-
cumstances demanding a more rational
approach to the use of available re-
sources the Treasurer has done less
than justice to the necessities of orient-
ing the economy for the required defence
effort.
Nor is it on defence grounds alone
that one must seriously question the
“business as usual” approach to the
Budget or its basic promise (implicit in
the £275 million increase in expenditure,
of which defence takes only £81.5 million
or 281 per cent) that, come fair or foul
world economic weather, the Govern-
ment’s own spending must not be in-
hibited.
The Treasurer said on a Meet the
Press session in Melbourne on Sunday
night that he was surprised that his
Budget had been so well received. Mr
Holt obviously thinks we have ample
reserves to allow the economy to run on
indefinitely at full steam, regards de-
fence less seriously than the facts
warrant, and is not as concerned at the
possible repercussion of the Budget on
industrial relations as he should be.
In bringing down such a mild Budget
he may live to regret having followed
the comfortable line that overseas re-
serves can stand for a second year in
succession a huge deficit in the country’s
overseas trading accounts in which
defence imports will loom increasingly
large. He may also regret having bowed
to pressures from the business world to
let private investment and production go
unbridled in a year when defence pro-
duction should be getting first priority.
On the balance-of-payments outlook
the most disturbing revelation in the
Budget papers is the official view that
imports will be higher this year than
last year’s record. Apparently the possi-
bility of a correction in the next few
months (along the lines recently sug-
gested by Dr Harold Bell, the AMP s
economist), has been ruled out. As
around 80 per cent of imports are in-


o
more
drive
It costs no more for the best!
C hevron offers you every modern convenience and luxury
at a sensible price. Air-conditioned throughout, every room and suite
overlooks beautiful Sydney harbour. Elegant restaurants, exciting
Cocktail bars and 24 hour per-
sonalised service. Chevron is
conveniently situated for busi-
ness, shopping, all sporting
facilities and only a few paces
from fascinating Kings Cross
night life. Make the most of your
stay, arrange for a sparkling new
Avis car to be waiting when you
reserve your accommodation.
*5
,1 CV* : L."
H
S SUM
*■
Book through any travel agent or direct with
CHEVRON HOTEL
MACLEAY STREET, POTT'S POINT, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 35.0433. Cables ‘CHEVRON SYDNEY’
dustrial rather than consumption goods,
the Government may well be right be-
cause the Budget gives an open invitation
to expand industrial investment and does
little to curb consumption. So if in-
dustrial demand pushes up the imports
bill even higher than in the June quarter,
when fixed investment was at overflowing
levels, it will be on the Government’s
own head.
With the maintenance of current levels
of exports and capital inflow in some
jeopardy, it would not surprise me to
see a snowballing drift in overseas re-
serves in the next few months, which
would force the Federal Treasurer to
eat his Budget words and take measures
to ease internal strains on the balance
of payments. The problem would be
made all the more acute in the event of
sterling devaluation, a possibility for
which no allowance appears to have
been made in the Budget.
From several angles one gets the im-
pression from this Budget that the
Treasurer has listened with more atten-
tion than usual to the business viewpoint.
For instance there was a clear case for
increasing sales tax on motor vehicles,
not only to get more revenue and curb
demand but primarily to cut back this
industry’s imports and divert some of
the resources used in it for defence pro-
duction. The curious thing is that even
the industry itself was expecting the
Government to tighten the screws on it.
However, if it has had a reprieve on
this occasion, this is all the more reason
for it to expect to be singled out for
hard treatment in the event of a sharp
deterioration in the balance of payments
in the course of the year. With labor
supplies so tight there is a strict limit to
the distance business can go in exploit-
ing its new-found optimism.
Therein lies the danger that, with
'neither private nor public sectors cut
back by the Budget, a more speculative
climate could well develop. Possibly we
saw the first seeds of such a develop-
ment in the strong recovery in share
markets and new issue after the Budget.
Brokers were almost unanimous that the
stage was now set for higher profits.
While not suggesting here that a boom
will develop out of this more favorable
investment climate, one wouldn’t rule
this out. In any case the prospective rise
in profits must be expected further to
whet the appetites of the trade unions
for higher wages and might well bring
industrial action to boiling point follow-
ing the concentration on indirect taxation
in the Budget.
The Treasurer has lost a big oppor-
tunity in this Budget to help the economy
to face the sterner times around the
corner.


MIGRANTS
Behind the Pickets
The Prasad principle
The weekend picketing and deputations of the Minister for Immigration, Mr
Hubert Opperman by relatives of Nancy Prasad, the recently deported Indian girl,
are only the latest moves in what is likely to be a persistent campaign against the
Minister in his own electorate.
The headline-making Prasad case was,
in part, the frontal attack of a long
private war between the Minister for
Immigration and the vocal New Settlers’
Federation, which claims to be the largest
migrant body in Australia. The general
secretary of the Federation, 38-year-old
Solon Baltinos, told The Bulletin last
week that his executive had decided that,
unless Mr Opperman reversed his
decision on Nancy Prasad, the New
Settlers will do everything they can to
see that he is unseated at the next
Federal election.
“You have the Prasad case and that
is a matter of principle for us. But
.there are other things. For Australians,
Immigration is not an important port-
folio, but for migrants it is the most
important. It deals with our loved ones,
our friends. Under Opperman people
are treated like packets of cigarettes,
We have tremendous correspondence
with him 20, 30 letters a day. He
has never replied to us personally. All
other Ministers have. They have even
given us advice. We just can’t work
with Opperman.”
Mr Baltinos promised that it would
be “a filthy campaign, boots and all”.
The New Settlers’ Federation claims a
book membership of 30,000 with 21,000
currently financial. Four months ago it
opened a branch in Victoria, which, it
says, now has 3000 members.
“Society is a bit of a jungle. It’s
a pity really,” says Baltinos, “but you
have to be able to put on pressure. A
politician is open to pressure. He depends
on votes.” Opperman could have reason
for concern about agitation by the New
Settlers’ League because of the high
concentration" of migrants Baltinos
puts it as high as 30 per cent in his
Corio electorate, held by him only with
the help of DLP preferences. At
the recent Victorian DLP conference
demands were made that the Party
should withdraw these preferences
because of the Prasad affair.
Would Mr Baltinos co-operate with
the DLP? “I will co-operate with the
devil you’d better say except Com-
munists or any Fascist element.” If the
New Settlers’ Federation does thrust
the campaign to the polling booths
against Opperman it will mean the full
swing of the pendulum since Baltinos
took control of the Federation in
November, 1960. The Baltinos accession
to power was the result of a break
between himself and a former AWU
organiser Mr Bielski, whom Baltinos had
helped become general secretary of the
then New Citizens’ Council.
Bielski set the organisation on a
politically activist course by registering
it as a trade union. In 1960 the New
Citizens’ Council was planning to run a
candidate in the Hunter by-election, with
the name of Clive Evatt freely can-
vassed. But after the split between Bielski
and Baltinos, from which the latter
emerged as secretary of the New Settlers’
Federation, with the New Citizens’
Council 8000-odd members along with
him. talk of direct political action waned.
According to Baltinos the work of
the Federation includes what would
seem to be almost the full gamut
of a migrant's problems the Federation
finds jobs and accommodation; makes
representations on behalf of a migrant
to government departments whether
about himself or his family; runs English
classes; provides interpreters; and has its
own panel of doctors and legal men.
Baltinos says that the Federation is at
the service of any migrant (the Prasads
are not members) but members have to
pay a £1 joining fee and a £1 annual
subscription.
He says that he is unpaid (“I have
independent means I like property.
It’s safest.”) and the eight-member staff
at the Sydney head-office is paid at “a
little better than award rates”.
EDUCATION
The Few Lines
W hat's new in Aid?
The Budget estimates from the Prime
Minister’s Department could provide
a major State Aid pitfall for Labor.
They include the provision of £120,000
for interest subsidies to independent
schools in the Australian Capital Terri-
tory an increase of £13,500. Will
Federal Labor members have to vote
against (his increase?
The answer is important not only for
Federal Labor men, but for the NSW
Opposition. The Askin Government is
VICTORIA
A New Directory of Culture
TN Victoria there is a small, norih-
A eastern town called Dondanga-
dale. The trouble with Dondangadale
is that nobody is sure how to spell it.
Road signs saying “ miles” give
different spelling according to which
authority puts them up.
In a couple of weeks the Victorian
State Government will introduce
legislation aimed at regulating the
adoption of place names for new
suburbs, towns, railway stations and
housing subdivisions throughout Vic-
toria. The names will be supervised
by a committee on which most Gov-
ernment authorities will be rep-
resented. One of the major purposes
of the committee is to prevent new
names being used which conflict with
present names. Its first job will be to
consider renaming some stations so
that they better represent the areas
they serve.
Aesthetic and historical considera-
tions will count when the committee
is approving new names. The legisla-
tion will make provision for the
Royal Historical Society of Victoria
to be represented on the committee.
Apart from the creation of uni-
formity one of the chief aims behind
the legislation is to abolish the
practice of some subdividers giving
pseudo-glamorous American names to
new land development areas.
The days of the outer-suburban
Miami Heights, Florida Park, Beverly
Hills, California Estate, and, perhaps,
even Moomba Park, are numbered.
Mr Rylah may be no Andre Malraux,
but the Place Names Committee may
be Victoria’s first step towards an
eventual Ministry of Culture.


ill
V\'\>
sx
*o# U
§mwm
||JS \
1964
1 'l\T\G*-
ORLANDO
fttt’o^aJxt^Un?
VINTACED ALSTRALIAJi * l!lE
iisSfc
i^Ri
pivi’!
SONS
RAMP
IN fori.
MI
TOP PRIZE
WINNER FOR
TWELVE YEARS
Since its introduction in 1953 : Orlando
Barossa Riesling has won more awards
than any other Australian Riesling.
One hundred and thirty-two major
awards, in fact, including Gold and
Silver Medals, Championships and Cups
throughout Australia and in Europe.
Last year, its greatest honour was the
Gold Medal awarded at the International
Viticultural and Wine Fair at Mont-
pellier, France, world-famous centre
for wine Study and research.
Every bottle of Barossa Riesling awarded
a prize has been taken at random from
stock proof positive of the wine’s
unfailing consistency.
Two major reasons why you can rely
on Barossa Riesling are:
* It is bottled in the traditional European
amber Riesling bottle, in preference to
a green bottle, because Riesling needs
bottle age, and amber glass keeps
out the light while the wine is aging.
* It is one of (lie very few Australian
Rieslings vintaged 100% from Rhine
Riesling grapes.
ORLANDO
BAROSSA
RIESLING
Prize-winning Orlando Barossa Riesling is made by
G. Gramp and Sons Ptv. Ltd., in South Australia’s
famous Barossa Valley.
10983
almost certain to include an allocation of
£lOO,OOO for interest-subsidies in its
Budget estimates in September and NSW
Labor men have no desire to be in the
position of voting against it.
However, both Federal and State
Labor could be in this plight. The
Federal ALP Conference resolution on
State Aid is highly ambiguous. It says:
"In view of the decision of Conference
to reaffirm policy on State Aid, the
question of new benefits that may con-
flict with this basic principle shall be
referred to the Federal Executive for
examination.”
The area in dispute is the reference
to "new benefits”. Is this a matter of
kind or degree? If it is of degree, then
Federal Labor would be in the ridiculous
position of voting against the loan
increases lor independent schools in the
ACT. Also, the resolution does not make
it clear whether by “new benefits” it
means merely “new” for a particular
State. If it does mean this, NSW Labor
would be. precluded from supporting the
Askin proposal.
Some senior Federal Labor men last
week were saying that there would be
no question of their having to vote
against the ACT benefits, while senior
NSW Labor men were saying no more
than they would “wait and see”. Despite
the optimism of the Federal Labor MPs
what will eventuate is anybody’s guess.
It may be remembered that in May the
Leader of the Opposition, Mr Calwell,
attempted to convince Caucus that Labor
members were bound to vote against a
Government bill establishing a three-year
programme on aid for science blocks at
independent schools. Mr Calwell mus-
tered 32 votes for this view (34 was the
number against rallied by Mr Calwell’s
deputy, Mr Gough Whitlam) despite the
fact that just 12 months earlier Caucus
had not opposed a Government bill
enabling science block assistance.
The May affair was hard on a meeting
of the ALP’s Federal executive. And
this provides the only real clue to the
current State Aid dilemma. West Aus-
tralia’s Mr F. E. Chamberlain had made
it obvious that he was not happy with
the Labor Opposition’s initial acquie-
scence on science blocks in Parliament
12 months earlier. So in May it was
clear that Calwell did not want to arouse
the ire of his most influential executive
supporter. As it was then, so it will prob-
ably be in two or three weeks when
the education estimates are debated.
If there is evidence that Mr Chamber-
lain wants a hard-line, then there will
be moves to secure opposition from
Federal Labor members moves, which
as in May, are bound to be resisted.
Any moves will be the danger light for
NSW whose case for support of the
Askin proposal is by far the weaker.


PROBLEM
Ho w to brand
an engine
HJi
A SELEX DECAL
Transfer
<
f
fa
m
j
Australian transfers
for Australia’s own car.,,
Your new HD Holden comes with a choice of 3 high per-
formance engines —149, 179 and X 2.
Even if you’re not a mechanic, you can tell the difference as
soon as you lift the bonnet. The transfers on the rocker covers
(as shown above) are made by Selex Decal to rigid General
Motors specifications.
They are designed to be colourful, heat and solvent resistant,
and to be easily applied on the production line.
SELEX DECAL
for Transfers
SYDNEY: 43-0221 • MELBOURNE: 61-3211 • AGENTS IN ALL OTHER STATES
50249
word DECAL is registered
HOSPITALS
Paying the
Patients
£180,000 a day
By GORDON CHESTERMAN
When New South W'ales Minister
for Health, Mr Jago, makes his trans-
Tasman trip later in the year, he will
take a look at the New Zealand Gov-
ernment’s scheme of offering long-term,
low-interest loans to private hospitals
and nursing homes.
Already the Private Hospitals Associa-
tion of Australia has made moves at the
Federal level to obtain similar loans from
the Menzies Government. But the Federal
Minister for Health, Mr R. W. C. Swartz,
when he heard the Association’s submis-
sions in March, was apparently not
impressed.
Mr L. W. Farrar, who is the executive
director of the Association, told The
Bulletin this week that the proposals
for long-term, low-interest loans will
again be placed before the Federal
Minister for Health. But in the meantime
he would wait on Mr Jago’s reaction on
his return from New Zealand.
According to Mr Farrar, in New
Zealand the loans may be obtained for
the purchase of an existing private
hospital, the building of a new one, or
for expansion or modernisation. The
loans were granted to the absolute limit
of the security available and could be as
high as 95 per cent of the total sum
required.
He said the loan was granted on a
part - suspensory basis so that if the
hospital continued in operation for 10
or more years, a proportion of the total
capital expenditure was written off as a
gift to the hospital. Rates of interest
varied from 5 per cent on alterations
and repairs, and in the case of a new
hospital, extensions or additions the rate
was 4f per cent.
“The Association stresses that it is
not asking for loans to establish new
institutions simply because this would
entice speculative investors into this
field,” Mr Farrar said.
Since 1953, said Mr Farrar, the cost
of conducting private hospitals and
nursing homes in Australia had greatly
increased, and at the same time the
standard had improved substantially.
This was the direct result of the Depart-
ment of Health increasing its require-
ments for “approved” institutions.
Mr Farrar pointed out that every
private hospital bed in Australia obviated
the provision of another public hospital


NEW! for all uniforms
Torair 1
TETORON 65 1
POLYESTER FIBRE
V and Viscose V
we blend beauty and science,
for a miracle fabric that works with you!
Fashion goes to work! The new look in uniforms
is soft, lustrous Cesarella, an exciting new fabric
by the makers of famous Cesarine. We made silky
Cesarella specially for the trend to more style and
fashion in today’s uniforms. Easily laundered,
drip-drys overnight to its original beauty, and per-
manently pleatable, too! Already selected by most
Banks, Schools and Insurance offices, Cesarella
means more beauty and longer wear for your
uniforms. Look for the Cesarella tag of quality
at your uniform supplier or just phone Caesar
Fabrics Ltd. in your state. But do it now!
CTB3IOB
CESARELLA—the fashion’s there to stay. MADE FROM
TO rail TETORON*
POLYESTER FIBRE and Viscose
6s;
bed. The report of the NSW Hospitals
Commission showed that two years ago
£43,359,506 was spent in maintenance
and establishment costs of 23,894 hospi-
tal beds in 266 public hospitals. This,
said Mr Farrar, worked out at £1902 per
bed per year. Subsequently, with about
30,000 private hospital and nursing home
beds in Australia, the savings to consoli-
dated revenue was more than £lBO,OOO
a day, without regard to capital expendi-
ture.
The Association will also ask the
Federal Health Minister to reconsider
proposals to increasecurrent benefits of
365. a day to 425. and 20s. benefits
to 30s. Mr Farrar said the Association
maintained that patients in other than
approved private hospitals, who either
required heavy nursing, or who were
chronically ill, were in fact incapable
the benefit payments from 30s. to 425.
a day.
According to statistics, private hospi-
tals and nursing homes “approved” for
payment of Commonwealth benefits two
years ago totalled 1206, with 27,902
beds being available. Mr Farrar said,
however, that National Health Benefit
payments approval was granted only to
private hospitals and nursing homes in
respect of two types of payments. The
patient who could genuinely claim to
be a heavy nursing and chronically ill
case involving constant nursing care,
who because they were not in an
approved hospital, received only 20s.
a day.
Mr Swartz had been told that 80 per
cent of the heavy nursing and chronic-
ally ill patients were restricted to their
£6 pension and the benefit pays £7, as
the maximum they were able to pay
for their full time nursing attention.
Patients classifiable as heavy nursing, or
chronically ill, were in fact incapable
of obtaining insurance with benefit funds.
And unless the. Minister acceded to the
proposed upgrading from 30s. to 425.
a day, these patients would be forced
to remain in the lower benefit category.
WATERFRONT
Running Out
of Rope
New Government measures?
For several months Government policy
on the waterfront has been to play out
the rope with which it later hopes to
tie up the Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion. But events have moved so swiftly
and the urgency become so pressing that
Government tactics may undergo a sud-
den change.
There are reports from within the
Ministry which indicate that the Minister
for Labor and National Service, Mr
McMahon, may make an early
announcement of measures designed to
lift the malaise that has sapped the
waterfront for so long. With the ACTU
Congress opening in Sydney next month
and the proposed Woodward inquiry
not yet under way, the Government
would have liked to stay its hand until
both were concluded.
To act before the ACTU Congress
would play into the hands of militants
in the trade unions who would endeavor
to use the Congress to commit the ACTU
to full-scale support of the WWF.
Officers of the ACTU would be reluctant
to steer such a course, but in the tur-
bulent atmosphere of the Congress, held
in the wake of strong legislative pro-
posals, the rank and file, under astute
organising, could call for a show-down.
Mr McMahon, however, is aware that
the WWF is off-side with ACTU offi-
cers, who consider that too often the
Federation’s word is not its bond.
Despite the possible repercussions, it is
believed Mr McMahon will now
announce the Government’s proposals
before the ACTU Congress.


LEARN FRENCH* AS NATURALLY AS HE DID—
BY LISTENING
He learnt French as a child by listening to other people. You can do exactly the same
through Linguaphone. The only difference is liiat you listen to the voices of distinguished
speakers and professors on Linguaphone recordings (45 r.p.m. or tape). What they say
is specially designed to help you learn the language in a short time —an incredibly short
time.
Learning by Linguaphone is wonderfully easy. The process of learning almost takes you
by surprise. You find yourself speaking the language, capturing the right accent and
intonation without any particular effort. To make sure you learn the written language at
the same time, you follow each lesson in an illustrated textbook. Linguaphone is the finest
audio-visual way of learning a language.
Over a million people have learned a language in this way choosing from thirty-
seven separate languages.
Post the coupon below for the FREE 20-page book and details of the Week's Free
Trial Offer.
LINGUAPHONE FOR LANGUAGES
Post this Today - - - ~
Linguaphone Institute, Pty. Ltd., Allans Music, 276 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney: Dymock's Book Arcade, 424 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation your free illustrated booklet of the Linguaphone method
of learning languages.
lam interested ir. j~j FRENCH j GERMAN |— j ITALIAN j—j SPANISH
or
*(37 languages available)
NAME .
ADDRESS
There is still no clue what might be
in store. It is known, however, that the
Government is determined that its
measures should (a) effectively break the
stranglehold of the WVVF on the water-
front, and (b) isolate the WWF as far
as possible from the rest of the trade-
union movement.
Outright de-registration of the Federa-
tion has been freely talked of in Gov-
ernment lobbies, but the authoritative
view is that such a course would be
unnecessarily drastic without providing
any long-term cure for waterfront ills.
One thing seems certain: the Govern-
ment will de-casualise waterfront labor,
placing it on weekly employment under
the Stevedoring Industry Authority. It is
expected also that recruitment will be
taken from the WWF and placed under
the SIA.
JOHN BROCKETT
MEDICINE
Doctors in
Congress
"A few traces of witchcraft ”
The second Australian medical con-
gress in Perth last week articulated many
of the attitudes that laymen have talked
about over their whisky—that the GP is
getting to be too busy for his patient’s
good, that doctors might learn ’Some-
thing from the medical fringe dwellers,
that pills are being prescribed rather
haphazardly.
For the first time at the congress, at-
tended by 1000 doctors, there was a
section on general practice. This was
tackled by congress president Dr H.
Leigh Cook, a Perth GP, who said the
lure of being a specialist was resulting
in the family doctor gradually disappear-
ing throughout the world. A survey of
WA medical school graduates between
1957 and 1962 showed that 60 per cent
planned to become specialists, 16 per
cent GPs, and 24 per cent were un-
decided. Criticising the haphazard ap-
proach to the training of family doctors,
he said that after completing a basic
course and walking a hospital for a year,
a young medico was considered good
enough. “Unless he so chooses, he may
never open another medical book or
journal, or attend another lecture.”
Dr F. N. Bouvier, a Morwell (Vic.)
GP, called for greater use of the doctor’s
personality in treating patients, and
greater knowledge of the patient’s non-
physical background. “Doctors are much
more scared to miss a physical diagnosis
than to miss diagnosing an emotional
Problem even though the latter may
have a worse result, like chronic ill
health or even suicide.”
Perth orthopaedic surgeon Dr R. D.
McKellar Hall urged that a lesson be
learnt not from the witchdoctor but
from the chiropractorwho, he said, often
succeeded where medical men had fail-
ed. “Many times I have had patients
tell me after I have manipulated their
spine that, although their backache is no
better, they have lost their indigestion
and other complaints,” he said. “It would
be interesting to find, and very satisfying
to supply, a scientific explanation for
these phenomena.” -
Melbourne’s well-known “anti-pill*
critic, Dr Lorna Lloyd-Green, dean of
the Queen Victoria Hospital’s medical
school, said: “I think they (oral con-
traceptives) should be used only when
other methods fail, and I would not
recommend them to young women who
have not yet had their families. My
reason is that in the pill we are using
hormones, which may have long-range
side effects of which we are not aware,
Some side effects have already been
recognised.”


“No Use Complaining”
C. E. Barnes: The new man in Cabinet
By ALAN REID
PRIME MINISTER SIR ROBERT MENZIES has oil several occasions over
recent months indicated publicly lack of enthusiasm for the promotion of
Country Party Minister Charles Edward (“Ced”) Barnes to the Federal Cabinet.
After 16 years as Prime Minister, Menzies usually gets his way in such matters.
But Barnes, 63, a tall, rather gangling,
slow-speaking and moustached bush type,
w'ho looks as though he would be more
at home in the saddle on a Queensland
cattle property than riding an office chair
behind a ministerial desk, is now in
Cabinet and a member of the ministerial
elite of 12 nine Liberals, three CP
whose policy decisions decide the actions
of the Menzies Government and the
political course upon which Australia
moves both at home and abroad.
Barnes’ elevation to Cabinet, an-
nounced last week after months of
daw'dling and possibly stalling over the
filling of the vacancy, illustrates the
strains and stresses that continually
beset a Coalition Administration
strains and stresses that invariably
intensify when both partners in the
Coalition are themselves beset by
succession problems.
Barnes became a Minister for Terri-
tories in 1963. He went into the Ministry
(which numbers 25) as part of the
Country Party team of six. The Prime
Minister has no control over the selec-
tion of these six ministers. The CP makes
its own appointments. If there is any
consultation with the Prime Minister,
such consultations are purely on a
courtesy basis. The PM is given the
opportunity to voice his objections to
any CP nominee if he wants to. But this
is a dangerous pastime. In the first place,
objections are liable to be ineffective.
In the second place, they are liable to
leave you with an enemy for life.
In practice it works out that the CP
selects, and the PM accepts. Subject
then to negotiations about portfolios,
which have electoral significance to both
parties (the Treasury, Trade, PMG and
Primary Industry are examples), the PM
proceeds to distribute the portfolios as
he sees fit and in accordance with his
judgment as to the capacity and suit-
ability of individual ministers.
On subsequent performances in public,
I think it is not unreasonable to suggest
that Menzies has had belated regrets
about appointing Barnes to Territories
to succeed Paul Hasluck, whom Menzies
shifted from the Territories portfolio
because he wanted him for External
Affairs.
Menzies has openly show'ed impatience
with Barnes in the House. In the glass
bowd of the House of Representatives’
chamber, and well aware that eyes are
on everything he does there and that ears
are strained to catch the significance of
every word he utters there, Menzies has
twice “belted” Barnes down, once for
an ambiguous answer on migration which
could have had politically damaging
consequences and once in support of a
complaint against Barnes involving a
suggestion of discourtesy to the Parlia-
ment.
Barnes has never complained. He is
not the complaining type. He has about
him some of the characteristics that
make the Australian who works in the
bush or on the land one of the most
attractive peop'e vou could meet. There
is a drought. Okay! So there is a
drought. No use complaining. Let’s see
what we can do to reduce to a minimum
the adverse effects of the drought.
These are qualities which would be
invaluable in certain types of administra-
tion. But there are those in the Parlia-
ment and recent indications suggest
that Menzies could now be in their ranks
who wonder whether a conservative,
rather unimaginative man, cautious and
practical, rather than visionary, is the
type c-f minister to have administering
the Territories portfolio possibly the
most sensitive portfolio in the Common-
wealth list outside External Affairs.
Not that Barnes is illiberal in his
conservatism. Wealthy, he is a member
of a family that has had Queensland
land holdings for more than a century.
[Dalray, a former Melbourne Cup win-
ner, is at stud at a property at Canning
Downs, near Warwick, where Barnes
breeds blood racehorses.] Queens-
landers, particularly those from old land-
owning families, are not prominent for
their advocacy of Aborigines’ rights.
But Barnes was a member of the Select
Committee on voting rights for
Aborigines, which recommended that
Aborigines in Australia be given the vote
in 1961. He has an old-fashioned respect
for the rights of minorities and opposition
groups.
11/'hether it stemmed from misgivings
” about the manner in which the Ter-
ritories portfolio was being handled, or
from some other reason, Menzies made it
pretty clear that he was not a happy
man as far as Barnes was concerned
while the Cabinet vacancy was under
consideration. But there was little
Menzies could do except snipe in an
indirect way. Other external factors to
which Menzies had to pay cognisance
were too large to be ignored even oy
Menzies. Menzies could probably trans-
fer any of his Liberal Ministers (except
possibly a few' of the most senior) from
one ministerial job to another, and get
away w'ith it politically. But it is a differ-
ent proposition dealing w'ith a man who
does not belong to his own party.
This could buy big trouble, and <
there has been one thing that has mar -


If your
product goe
in here,
Zendel E.H.I.
should go on your
packaging film order.
Zendel E.H.I. polyethylene film
is made for food packaging. Jt has
all the properties to make it the
most suitable film for the job. High
strength, medium slip, no blocking,
easy heat sealing, good clarity plus
an excellent resistance to tears and
punctures. An added bonus is that
Zendel E.H.I. retains its high
strength when subjected to very low
temperatures, which makes it ideal
for frozen food packaging. If you
sell food of. any description, it will
pay you to see samples and prices
on bags made from Zendel E.H.I.
packaging film. That’s very easy to
arrange. Simply contact the Union
Carbide office in your State. We will
put you in contact with a bag manu-
facturer using the “Zendel” poly-
ethylene film range.
Union Carbide Australia Limited
Plastics Division
167 Kent Street, Sydney
Branch Offices
in State Capitals
High Clarity, Antistatic
Polyethylene Film
ZENDEL POLYETHYLENE FILM GRADES FOR EVERY PACKAGING APPLICATION:
2ENDEL H.C. high Clarity polyethylene film
ZENDEL H.C.A. high clarity, antistatic polyethylene film
.ZENDEL U.T. ultra thin polyethylene film
ZENDEL E.H.I. extra high impact polyethylene film
ZENOEL U.H.I. ultra high impact (for shipping bags)
ZENDEL T. high impact, very low slip (for tapes)
"Union Carbide” and "Zendei" are registered trade marks.
647 a
ed Menzies’ career since 1941 (when
big trouble with the CP brought his
downfall as a wartime Prime Minister)
he does not go looking for needless
trouble with the Country Party. If he
shifted Barnes from Territories, in cir-
cumstances which left Barnes in an em-
barrassing and humiliating position, the
CP might want to know why and to
protest. After all, Barnes stands No. 3
only behind CP leader John McEwen and
his deputy, Charles Adermann, in the
CP Parliamentary hierarchy.
For all his power as Prime Minister,
Menzies similarly could not (without the
risk of a head-on clash with the CP)
debar Barnes from getting into Cabinet
if he was the man the CP wanted to put
into Cabinet. Menzies could do was
what he did, which was to stall and to
try to influence things indirectly. My
impression is that Menzies would have
preferred McEwen and the CP to put
up either Interior Minister Douglas
Anthony, 35, or lan Sinclair, 36, the
Social Service Minister, both recently
promoted to the Ministry to fill the CP
vacancy in the Cabinet.
Out Menzies is not the only one with
succession problems. McEwen has
them. He undoubtedly put both Anthony
and Sinclair into Ministerial posts to see
how they would shape, for it is from one
of these two (Adermann is older than
McEwen and responsibly recognises him-
self as the stopgap deputy CP leader until
one of the younger men is ready to take
over) that the successor to Jack McEwen,
now 65, is likely to come.
On this occasion, Menzies probably
made his preference for somebody other
than Barnes to be appointed to the CP
vacancy in Cabinet a bit too obvious.
For McEwen and the CP to put in either
Anthony or Sinclair, neither of whom
could at this stage of their careers match
Barnes for cautious commonsense and
knowledge of rural industries, would be
to concede complete domination over
Cabinet appointments to Menzies. It
would be a useful precedent for Menzies’
successor in Liberal leadership to exploit
against future CP Cabinet nominees to
whom the successor was hostile.
This was probably a factor weighing
with McEwen. Another factor was prob-
ably that he is not yet ready to confer
the accolade upon the Country Party
heir-apparent. He has given Anthony and
Sinclair a chance to prove themselves.
Menzies dawdled, probably in the
hope that something would turn up that
might persuade McEwen and the CP to
put someone other than Barnes into the
C'P Cabinet vacancy. McEwen and the
CP held on patiently, and last week
their patience paid off. Barnes went into
Cabinet as a symbol of both CP strength
in the coalition and of the strains be-
tween the coalition partners.


What’s Wrong with Lawyers?
The profession is on trial at the Commonwealth Law Conference
SIR ADETOKUNBO ADEMOLA
Chief Justice, Nigeria
WE CHONG JIN
Chief Justice, Singapore
LORD PARKER
Lord Chief Justice, England
SIR GARFIELD BARWICK
Chief Justice, Australia
By CLIFFORD L. PAN NAM
/CRITICISM of the law and lawyers is nothing new. The profession fi2S never had a good public image.
lt has been banned from almost every literary Utopia from Plato's Republic to Samuel Butler's
Erewhon. What is different about contemporary crind the questions of high costs and legal aid. They
embrace the organisation of the profession and its failure to grapple with new fields of expertise, like taxation.
They extend to the administration of the courts and the questions of high costs and legal aid. They
include the failure of the law to effectively contro! the gigantic administrative apparatus which has come
in the wake of the welfare state.
The point is that at very few times
in the history of the profession, if ever,
has there been so much public concern
about the law, its practitioners and the
way it is administered. In this context
the theme selected for the Third Com-
monwealth Empire Law Conference in
>cne\ t is are. s 0 a engcs
the Law and the Lawyer —is a brave
The Law Council of Australia, which
has been responsible tor the organisation
of the Conference has selected the list
of topics in amplification of the central
theme. Many of them have recently
generated a good dea of controversy n
Austraha. These include the need for
an Ombudsman ; the role of juries in
motor-car accident cases; and the
speeding up of pre-trial procedures to
ieduce the present delays between writ
c ~ .
Several distinguished lawyers have
been invited to wide short papers on
each of the topics to be considered
„? e rp ha r heen i P rmted and distributed
nvupr 'i s iS ned t° provide background
c anc a ramewor or 1 e c IS
ssions.
The papers’ committee of the Law
Council, under the chairmanship of
C. D. L. Meares, QC, of the NSW Bar,
sent a 13-page memorandum to each of
the contributors containing suggestions
and questions which might orofitablv be
explored in the papers. This memoran-
dum was almost a challenge to the con-
trihtitots to he piovocative and contro-
versial 1
The members of the committee must
be somewhat disappointed with the
papers which have been prepared. With
a few exceptions they are not par-
ticularly inspiring. Some are pedestrian.
Most 0 f t h em reflect an attitude that is
becoming increasingly characteristic of
the legal profession. The authors expose
the problem they are concerned with
an d point to the ways in which the law
has failed to respond to it. But then
most of them stop. They do not go on
and propound solutions. (When it comes
to talking at the Conference itself, there
may be—at least we hope—some real
controversy.)
Lawyers, however, appear to see the
legal function as stopping with exposition.
Solutions involve policy judgments and
for some reason lawyers are becoming
reluctant to express opinions on ques-
tions of policy. This is a fundamental
problem. It is at the root of the explana-
tion why lawyers are not playing such
an important role in community and
commercial affairs as they did not so
many years ago.
Another aspect of this attitude is that
the profession is becoming increasingly
_ A V
conservative. As it has yielded the
initiative in most law reform involving
questions of policy to others, it has
cast itself in the role of spokesman for
the existing system. This is unfortunate
because the legal profession is in a
unique position to contribute to the
solution of these problems. However,
the fact remains that the credo of too
many lawyers is that anything new is
prima facie bad and if only the old
rules and methods were properly under-
stood they would not need changing.
An even more curious phenomenon
than those mentioned above is that when
lawyers do come up with practical
suggestions they tend to be somewhat
unreal. Take, for example, the question
of a Commonwealth Court of Appeal
which has been given prominence on the
Conference agenda. It seems that the
British delegation and some of the


African delegations are very interested
in creating a common court of appeal
for the whole Commonwealth, or alter-
natively, the creation of various regional
courts of appeal. This comes at a time
when the tendency in Commonwealth
countries has been to abolish appeals to
the Privy Council. Even in Australia
there have been recurrent murmurings
that we should abolish the appeal.
The proposal which is to be put before
the Conference assumes that it would
be desirable to have a uniform common
law of the Commonwealth. This assump-
tion is difficult to justify. To be proud
of a common legal heritage is one thing,
but it is quite another to see a value of
legal uniformity between countries as
diverse as the components of the Com-
monwealth Different social conditions
need different legal rules and the great
virtue of the common law has been its
ability to adapt itself to a new environ-
ment The whole proposal seems wildly
unreal at this stage of the development
of the Commonwealth, no matter how
grand it might sound over port and
cigars as a conference after-dinner
speech.
Surely a more practical suggestion is
that closer legal links between the Com-
monwealth countries can be
forged by the establishment of a
legal department within the new
Commonwealth Secretariat. This
department could act as a cen-
tral clearing house for legal
materials of interest to each
of the member countries. It is
to be hoped that the Con-
ference takes advantage of the Sec-
retariat to develop this type of effective
legal basin and does not waste too much
time with dreams of a Commonwealth
Court of Appeal.
One of the most important subjects
tc be considered by the Conference is
the legal control of the various admini-
strative tribunals which grant the licences
and permits which are such a feature of
our modern, highly regulated community.
After the initial shock of realisation
lawyers are beginning to appreciate that
the reason why the legislature has given
these important functions to administra-
tive tribunals staffed by non-lawyers is
that they are more efficient and expert
ir, handling these cases.
The real problem is not to bemoan the
existence of these tribunals but to devise
appropriate legal controls to ensure that
they act fairly and do not make mistakes
of law. At present this control depends
upon the availability of writs or orders
which are as outmoded as their names—
certiorari, mandamus and prohibition.
They depend upon artificial conceptual
distinctions and limitations that have
absolutely no relevance to the problems
they are supposed to solve.
What is needed is both a set of rules
or procedures which must be followed
by administrative tribunals in reaching
their decisions, and also a simple and
effective method of reviewing these
decisions by the courts.
The Conference will also consider the
impact of the motor-car on the law.
Litigation concerning motor-car accidents
dominates the time of the courts. We
insist that a person who is injured in a
motor car accident establish that his
injuries were solely or partly due to the
negligence of another person as a con-
dition of compensation. This is the
traditional common law view.
Leaving aside questions relating to
the distortion of this view by compulsory
insurance systems, and whether the
concept of fault makes sense in most
motor accident situations, one may
legitimately question whether the exist-
ence or non-existence of fault is at all
relevant. The magnitude of the social
problem created by the havoc wreaked by
the motor-car seems to demand that its
victims be compensated independently of
“The first thing we do, let’s
kill all the lawyers”
William Shakespeare, “King Henry VI, Part II"
fault. Yet we cling to a legal apparatus
to solve these problems which is designed
to establish fault as the critical in-
gredient in an injured person’s title to
compensation
There are, of course, many alternative
solutions, all of which involve a general
insurance system. They would all mean
a considerable immediate loss of earn-
ings by many lawyers The motor-car
has been something of a goldmine for
the profession It is to be hoped that
self interest can be put aside and these
alternative solutions considered on their
merits.
Another vita! subject tc be taken up
by the Conference is the question of
legal costs and legal aid This is a basic
and vital problem. Legal costs are high.
There is no question of that. That fact,
however, does not carry with it the
corollary that lawyers are too highly
paid. They are not. Legal work is ex-
pensive because it is very time-consum-
ing.
The trouble is that the profession gets
itself into poor repute by charging high
fees on simple routine matters like land
transactions to balance the relatively
small charges on more complicated!
matters like litigation and advice. The
Conference should take up this question
and investigate whether legal costs might
not be put on a basis which more
accurately reflects the time and effort
expended in various classes of work.
Because of the generally high level of
legal costs the question of legal aid be-
comes crucial. Access to the courts
should be a reality for every citizen in
the community. It is part of the rule
of law. Yet the doors of the superior
courts, in every part of this country and
in other parts of the Commonwealth,
are still effectively closed to the majority
of citizens because of the high costs of
litigation. What is needed is a national
system of legal aid in every Common-
wealth country which is designed to
ensure that the courts are open to every-
one.
An elaborate and efficient scheme has
been in operation in England for some
time It is to be hoped that it will be
the model for similar schemes in other
Commonwealth countries. Here in Aus-
tralia the need is greater than many of
us realise. The existing schemes are
sadly deficient in that they do not effec-
tively help the vast lower middle
class which consitutes the
largest segment of our popula-
tion.
The publicity which is sure to
be given to the debates on these
topics, and dozens of others
ranging from the use of com-
puters as aids in legal research to
legal education, will produce a lot of
public discussion during the course of
the next few weeks. This will be
valuable. Too often the legal profession
closes its ranks whenever there is any
outside criticism of the existing system.
It often succumbs to the temptation to
treat the law as some sort of sacred
mystery which cannot be comprehended
by lay minds. As a result, too, many
significant are discounted as
being ill-informed
This situation is not helped by restric-
tive rules of professional “ethics” which
operate to hinder lawyers from explain-
ing matters of legal interest to lay
audiences. They often overlook the fact
that in a free society every citizen should
be entitled to have the legal rules under
which he lives explained to him and
their merits openly canvassed for his
consideration. The law is not above
public debate It is the very stuff of it.
In a sense then, the legal profession
is on trial in Sydney this week. It is a
critical time in its history. The time for
elegant speeches is past. We need, and
should be entitled to expect, practical
proposals for the legal charges that are
so urgently required.


Solid for Apollo?
After splashdown , eleven days’ debriefing
From GEORGE McGANN in New York
When Gemini’s pressure problem threatened to end its flight two hours after
take-off, the Soviet News Agency Tass accused the Americans of being so eager to
get ahead of Russia in the space race that they launched Gemini V “with haste and
definite risk”. This was promptly denied by NASA officials, who said no pressure
had been exerted on them from political quarters and that everything possible had
been done to test the spacecraft and its functions beforehand. In Houston engineers
are attempting to trace the cause of the pressure failure, using duplicate fuel cells.
A defective piece of wire or filament may have prevented the heaters from functioning
properly.
The launch into orbit was perfect,
but the trouble developed in the space-
craft’s fuel-cell system. The vital oxygen
pressure plummeted from a normal rate
of 900 pounds to 55 pounds per square
inch. Oxygen stored at 297 degrees be-
low zero is a slushy kind of snow. It
was not thawing fast enough to produce
gas pressure to feed the fuel cells effi-
ciently. This was apparently due to the
failure of heaters. Unless pressure is
sufficiently high, oxygen will not turn
into gas and flow into the fuel cells where
it is mixed with hydrogen to form electric
power. When the situation was discov-
ered, engineers at the flight control centre
in Houston considered halting space flight
immediately for the safety of astronauts
Cooper and Conrad.
However, the oxygen pressure suddenly
stabilised and began to build up slowly,
reaching over SO pounds. Although this
was only one-tenth normal pressure, it
proved sufficient to produce power for
safe operation of the spacecraft and re-
instatement of the normal flight plan. So
Gemini would accomplish half of the
flight’s objective, determining if man can
"Yes , but she was the power behind
him."
withstand eight days of weightlessness in
a planned moon flight at the end of this
decade.
Although engineers at the manned
spacecraft centre in Houston have few
doubts about the ability of man to live
safely in space long enough for an eight-
day round trip to the moon, Gemini will
determine this definitely. The Apollo
moon flight is scheduled for the late
19605. “If Cooper and Conrad do not
develop any consequential problems in
eight days we can chart a clear, solid
course for the Apollo mission,” Dr Duane
Catterson, Chief of the Spacecraft
Centre's Medical Branch, declared before
the Gemini V launching. He noted
that some potentially adverse effects had
been observed in previous flights. These
occurred largely in the adjustments in
function made by astronauts’ hearts and
circulatory systems to the total space-
flight experience the prolonged period
of weightlessness, acceleration during
launching and re-entry, and the heat
and discomfort of the spacecraft and
spacesuits after splashdown when the
men floated waiting to be picked up. But
evidence suggested, Dr Catterson said,
that such changes do not grow steadily
greater as length of space flights in-
creased. Existing data hinted at a
plateau in development of the changes,
indicating that an eight-day mission pro-
duced far less than twice as much change
as a four-day mission. So far, changes
that occurred have not inconvenienced
astronauts nor affected their perform-
ances. Effects were slight during flights
and changes occurred briefly in post-
flight tests.
Tests showed that Gemini IV astro-
nauts experienced increases in the heart
rate and decreases in blood pressure dur-
ing the flight which persisted for about
three days after return to earth. Dr
Catterson said this suggested the astro-
nauts’ bodies found it difficult to react
to the stress of living again in a gravity
field. A large factor in this effect was
possibly the factor of weightlessness but
the whole flight experience had presum-
ably played a part. Conrad is wearing
blood pressure cuffs aboard Gemini V
to see whether alternating pressure on the
blood vessels of the legs will help reduce
effects of weightlessness on the circula-
tory system. Cooper is not so equipped.
The other main objective—a rendez-
vous in space with a radar-equipped pod
had to be abandoned early in the
flight. This exercise would have been a
kind of dress rehearsal in miniature for
the next Gemini flight which was to try
to intercept an orbiting agena rocket. The
object of these manoeuvres is to help per-
fect rendezvous techniques needed to en-
able astronauts to return alive from the
moon and to construct piecemeal labora-
tories in space.
There is still considerable military in-
terest in the flight of Gemini V. A
Polaris missile was to have been launch-
ed in the Atlantic off Cape Kennedy to
determine whether Cooper and Conrad
can decipher the tell-tale “signature” of
radiation that such a missile trails en
route to its target. If men in space can
track a missile trail better than a spy
satellite can, the Pentagon may reverse
itself and decide that the military have
a role in space after all. Later in their
flight, the astronauts were to attempt to
identify and track a pair of minutemen
intercontinental ballistic missiles to be
launched from California. They were
to also have tried to photograph air-
ports in the US and make infra-red
measurements of volcanoes and similar
geologic formations. At the time of
writing, it is not known whether these
experiments will still be continued.
Out in the course of their planned 192
hours in space, the highly trained
astronauts still expect to obtain other
vital data, relating to visual definition
of objects in space, visual definition of
features of the earth, and measurement
of objects in space. In effect, their
gadget-packed, 7000-pound spacecraft
is a highly complex orbiting scientific
laboratory in which a w'ide range of space
research can be carried out.
When the astronauts complete their
eight days in orbit and are fished out of
the Atlantic they are due for no less
than eleven days of constant debriefing.
Most of this will take place at the man-
ned spacecraft centre, a few miles from
their homes in Houston. They will not
be permitted to see their families again
until the entire three weeks of space-
flight debriefing are over.


m
m®
: mmm
'
mm
mm
mm
: M :
»SS
mm.
mm
m
m
■^.V^Xy
k
im
m
im
vXv:
1
Trapped by Paperwork!
Cail 3SVB Business Communications Centre*
If you’re getting caught by the paperwork
trap, why not spend a few minutes talking
to our 3M Business Communications Con-
sultant? Before it’s too late!
Talk paperwork traffic jams. Copying
bottlenecks. Correspondence. Financial
records. Internal forms. Reports. Memos.
Unnecessary typing and clerical effort.
Overhead costs.
Then he can assess how and where 3M’s
Systems and Copying Products can save
typing and clerical effort, and speed the
paperwork flow in your organisation.
He’ll invite you to the Centre to see these
3M ideas in action. Order Invoicing
Systems, Purchase Receiving Systems.
Machines and papers.
But why wait for an invitation when a
’phone call will save you from the paper-
work trap?
BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS CENTRE
MINNESOTA miNING AND MANUFACTURING [AUSTRALIA] PTY. LTD.
Sydney 43-0455 • Melbourne 61-3841 • Adelaide
51-5971 • Brisbane 5-4131 • Perth 28-4651 • Hobart
3-3104 • Canberra 4-0791 • Auckland 295-109.


Lindsay’s Bohemia
But not The Banjo!
LOW'S VIEW/ OF LINDSAY TAKING HIS MODELS FOR A WALK
By M. H. ELLIS
Lindsay’s new book, “Bohemians
of The Bulletin” a valuable
addition to Bulletinana—would be
more valuable still if Lindsay were a
different type of artist. His work is
based on imagination rather than on
reality. Not for him the lightning
sketch. He can only get real likenesses
through a careful study of faceplanes
and color values. In black and white the
best work that comes out of his own
consciousness is magnificent; but he is
never a pure recorder and unconsciously
he always seems to improve on nature
according to his own standards. His
devils are always a bit more sinister
than the Devil himself, and you always
get a full sixpenny-worth of villainy in
his pirates. As for ladies, he cannot
resist making them good, buxom lasses
with Rubensesque underpinnings.
This habit does not lead to success
when he applies it, as he did in this
book, to a real female, the novelist
Miles Franklin. Of that dainty little
lady, so full of wit and fresh charm, he
W'rote one of the most entrancing descrip-
tions in the “Red Page” many years ago;
but his version of Miles in the
“Bohemians” suggests that she has been
fattening herself up for the Lindsay
model stand and has outgrown her
clothes and been forced to buy some
off the hook. Comparison with his
drawing of Miles with that of “the
smart-looking black cob” that he used
to ride, might suggest that Lindsay
draws horses better than he draw's ladies.
Or poets —it is difficult to recognise,
either in his word picture or his draw-
ings, the long, genial Rod Quinn whom
he found apparently boring, but W'ho
could be very entertaining.
It would also be difficult to recognise
“Steele Rudd” in Lindsay’s dapper little
grazier in modish wide-brim of 1965
vintage in W'hich he is presented. I had
my first really good look at Steele in
1904. He looked like a stockrider from
the near West a reserved, largish,
silent Downs man who would have shied
at being called a Bohemian.
His spirit, however, can comfort itself
that in Lindsay’s book he is in the com-
pany of a number of people who appear
to have got into the wrong box; but that,
perhaps, depends on what you think a
Bohemian is.
Not being as ancient a mariner on
The Bulletin’s high seas as Mr Lind-
say, I did not know some of his charac-
ters at all and knew the remainder only
in their last phases. But I certainly
would not call most of them Bohemians.
Archibald, for instance. He fostered
a stable of Bohemians. He was a good
trainer of talent which he kept in lean
running condition. He liked to pretend
that, with his adopted Christian names
of Jules Francois, he was romantically
French, which he wasn’t. Whoever heard
of a Bohemian who left enough money
to buy a fountain for Hyde Park and
•endow an Archibald Prize? But for that
matter, whoever heard of a Bohemian
artist whose guests were received at his
Roman villa in the bush by. a butler in
black coat and tie, as Lindsay’s were in
his palmy days?
Lindsay himself is pretty fair about
the whole business of Bohemianism. He
obviously is doubtful about A. G.
Stephens's qualifications. He admits his
value as a groomer of Bulletin genius,
without committing himself too closely
to a verdict. And his drawing of the
fantastic "Hop” whom he renders as a
sort of Presbyterian elder—who might
well be surveying himself in a tailor’s
mirror—automatically expels him from
Bohemian society. "Hop”—Livingstone
Hopkins—was, of course, an American
who might have sat for the original of
the traditional Uncle Sam. He had
fought in the American Civil War and
always kept his “musket” in his room
as a memento. I used his bayonet as a
paper knife for years. He took his
humor very professionally and seriously;
but in his lighter moments he amused
himself—and myself less than Norman
Lindsay w'ho was a stone lighter than I
—by setting his unsuspecting guests in
chairs that immediately collapsed, and
by serving them cigars that spat in their
eyes when clipped before lighting. He
was no Bohemian.
Then, of course, there is James
Edmond. Lindsay's picture of him being
viewed by Arabs is anaemic beside the
reality. One needs to turn to David
Low’s drawing of him to see him in all
his immensity. I had the luck to see him
in action before he retired from the
editorship in 1915, just as Low depicted
him. There he sat at his great Cutler
desk which I inherited many years
afterwards via John Webb beside an
immense w'aste-paper basket. Rolls
of fat supported the ring of hair
round his tonsure. In his right hand
a battered pen inscribed the outrageous
humorosities of “Henry Horsecollar”,


rioting along from fancy to fancy. His
left hand, adjacent to a refreshing
flagon, held a lighted cigar to which
knowledgeable contributors gave a wide
berth. It was apt to creep up on a piece
of proffered but unwanted “copy”, like
a blue-tongued lizard stalking a blow-
fly, and send the miserable thing up in
flames.
No one would have guessed from the
broad, florid, ungainly figure so like that
of Chiao Lao, the Chinese God of Con-
tentment, peering at a sheet of crumpled
paper as he denigrated “Jawbone” Nield
or the proposed Federal capital site in
Canberra, that here was about the most
effective and deadly all-round political
writer in the Commonwealth. He was
the real maker of The Bulletin’s
political influence in its powerful post-
Federation phase. He was, when first on
the paper, a great financial editor who
could impart humor even into the Wild
Cat page. He was a magnificent and
pungent dramatic critic, but certainly no
reveller in anything but the joy of editing
The Bulletin until failing sight
dragged him, all too young and when he
was most needed in 1915., from the chair
to make way for the solemn S. H. Prior.
Nobody would have called Edmond,
with his devoted home-life in both his
homes, The Bulletin office and his
own, a Bohemian.
Though he liked to preen himself as
such, there was not much of the
Bohemian about Randolph Bedford. He
would have been happiest among the
bulls of Bashan, or in the role of
Gargantua, though he could have played
it only up to the point at which he was
supposed to dine off the five pilgrims
and their slaves. As Lindsay has dis-
cerned, there was a timid soul imprisoned
under Randolph’s outer walls of in-
timidating flesh and scowl. And if one
of the pilgrims had given so much as
a protesting wriggle, Randolph Gar-
gantua would have gone off his food. I
once saw “O. C. Cabot”, a tiny writer
of light verse —there was a true literary
Gipsy for you! snatch the huge
sombrero from Randolph’s very dome
and heave it out a train window with-
out suffering so much as an abrasion.
Randolph was a sort of human thunder-
storm without the lightning or the hail.
Lindsay has given him his “pirate treat-
ment”, both in word and picture, with-
out trepidation. He was awesome to
listen to, amusing at the right distance,
but not always nice to be intimate with
in his more truculent moods.
“The Banjo”
T indsay’s most outlandish Bohemian
is Banjo Paterson. I think it is lucky
for him that The Banjo is now else-
where. If ever there was a natural son
of the old squattocracy, a fit mate for a
daughter of the Walkers of Concord, it
was Banjo. He always looked sartorially
like a colonel of cavalry who had
just left Tattersall’s Sale Ring with a
field-marshal after having bought a
steeplechaser. I believe he was a little
ashamed of having been weak enough to
write some of his ballads and that he
would have given up his literary fame
for the chance to command the Fifth
Dragoon Guards or a brigade of Light
Horse.
Though Lindsay has written, perhaps,
the best description of him of any of
his characters, I hope I am in Paradise
to see “The Banjo”, a copy of
“Bohemians of The Bulletin” in his
hand, receive Norman Lindsay on
arrival. (Banjo a Bohemian, indeed!)
Norman, for his own future safety, might
have been better advised to stick to
Hugh McCrae as his subject, for Hugh
was definitely on the same wavelength
with him; so much so that they were
perfect complements to each other, the
lyricist and the illustrator. There was a
startling atmosphere of ancientry about
both of them that made one believe
absolutely in Jung’s theory of the
transfer of personality.
Even his bad habit of wearing
trousers could not disguise the fact that
Hugh was an authentic faun. He and
Norman always had the air, when
in repose, of listening for the music
of the oak-flute of “Lycidas” and
the crackle of the “hoofed heels” of
satyrs among the chestnut husks. Hugh
is the one Bulletin Bohemian for
whom Norman shows real enthusiasm
in his book.
Norman, himself, I fear, has earned
a reputation as a Bulletin Bohemian
too easily. It rests quite falsely on his
obvious association with fattish young
ladies on model stands, whom, in fact,
he has always regarded with the same
sort of emotion with which an
Aboriginal regards the saplings he uses
to form frames for his gunyah.
Though he may have felt himself
among Bohemians in the lofty stratum
of Bulletin society in which he moved
exclusively from the beginning, it is
clear that Norman has neglected the
society of the real elect of Bulletin
Bohemianism, whom he ignores.
He does not, for instance, mention
his brother Percy whom I once found
cobbling the shoes of a passing tramp
while the tramp polished off a bottle of
his best Jamaica, or his son, Ray, who
was a veritable Bohemian as he was a
veritable artist, the best limner of the
characters of early Australian history
we have yet seen.
Norman would scarcely have appreci-
ated the humor of the wit who, with
a windfall, satisfied an urge to observe
what his obsequies would be like, by
paying for a rehearsal of it complete
in detail —and down Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, no less. I do not think he would
have enjoyed himself at parties of
another Bohemian who invariably used
what our grandmothers used to describe
as a “certain utensil” for a loving cup.
And the spectacle produced coram
publico in a crowded bar —of another
fellow artist repaying unrequited love by
emptying into the secret recesses of an
astonished barmaid a full pickle bottle
of hungry black bees would scarcely
have been his kind of Bohemianism.
These were the kind of denizens that
inhabited the real Bulletin Bohemia.
But like Antigonus in “A Winter’s
Tale”, Norman must have been vague
about its geography.
HENRY LAWSON REPROVES BERT STEVENS
MILES FRANKLIN
JAMES EDMOND INSPECTS THE HOLY LAND


Who’s ahead in Air Conditioning...
with the big...
m
1
Air conditioning by Email of many large,
modern buildings all over Australia-
like the forward-looking IBM building
and Sydney’s State Government Offices
which will be the largest air conditioned
building in Australia brings year-round
comfort to thousands.
Email’s Air Conditioning and Industrial
Refrigeration Division not only designs
and installs these plants but covers
the total field of air conditioning down
to the "Weatherwall” air conditioner
for homes and individual offices.
Australian owned and controlled, Email
operates fourteen Divisions, Sub-
sidiaries and Associate Companies.
Through them, Email is active in many
diverse fields—electric power distribu-
tion, domestic appliances, ceramics,
metering, to name a few.
This wide diversification contributes
significantly to the growth and pros-
perity of our community.
Many times a day every
Australian uses or enjoys
the benefits of an Email
product or service.
Email
Limited
ELECTRICAL
AND INDUSTRIAL
MANUFACTURERS
C5D21268


E
[MIiT
fli
YOU
CAN BUY FROM YOUR HOTEL,
CLUB , RESTAURANT OR
LICENSED RETAILER.
Lindeman's Show Record Sydney
Royal Easter Show, 1965—8 gold
awards, 12 silver awards, 18 bronze
awards; Adelaide Championship Wine
Show, Royal Melbourne Show, 1964,
Lindeman’s Most Successful Exhibitor.
vry.
VINTAGE
WINES
PRIVATE BIN BURGUNDY BIN 50.
VINTAGE 1962
A soft, round, generous Burgundy with full
flavour, made from Red Hermitage grapes
grown in the Hunter River, Goulburn and
Clare Valleys. Awarded SILVER MEDAL 1963
Sydney Show and SILVER MEDAL 1964 Sydney
Show —Table Dry Red Export classes.
PRIVATE BIN WHITE BURGUNDY BIN 77.
VINTAGE 1964
A crisp, generous, medium-bodied wine mada
from White Hermitage and Semilion grapes
grown in the Hunter River and Clare Valleys.
Awarded GOLD MEDAL 1964 Brisbane Show
in the Table Dry White Export class.
PRIVATE BIN RIESLING BIN 23.
VINTAGE 1964
A light, delicate dry wine with an appealing
bouquet and character, made from Riesling
grapes grown in the Hunter River and Clare
Valleys. Awarded SILVER MEDAL 1964 Bris-
bane Show in the Table Dry White Export class.
PRIVATE BIN CLARET BIN 45. VINTAGE 1963
This wine was made from Red Hermitage
grapes grown in the Hunter River, Clare and
Goulburn Valievs, and is a product of
Lindemans "Ben Ean" Cellars, where it was
matured in small oak casks. Bin 45 is. a
lightish claret with a strong, attractive
flavour and an easy-to-drink character. It is
an ideal accompaniment to all meat dishes,
and may be safely binned away for many
years to come.
NEW ZEALAND NEWSLETTER
The Shifty Aussie
“They have been playing us for suckers again ”
From MAURICE SHADBOLT in Auckland
Tf the sponsors of the limited Free
A Trade Agreement with Australia
hoped to capture the imagination of the
public and draw attention to the need for
stronger trans-Tasman links, then, on
this side of the Tasman at least, they
have failed. Perhaps a certain amount of
groundwork was missing, or the subject
has just grown boring.
The anxiety of the most directly con-
cerned New Zealand parties manu-
facturers will remain until precise de-
tails of the agreement are known, but
already it seems clear that this country,
perhaps for the first time in relations with
its larger neighbor, had a minor vic-
tory in negotiations leading up to the
agreement. - It may be that New Zea-
land’s adverse trans-Tasman trading
balance in recent years running four-
to-one in favor of Australia acted as
a powerful argument in
wringing concessions from
Minister for Trade McEwen
and the Menzies Cabinet.
Anyway, earlier fears that
New Zealanders would be
sold a bill of goods by shifty,
shrewd - talking Australians
appear to be unfounded. (A
leading Labor MP predicted that Aus-
sies would be “playing us for suckers
again”.)
On the other hand it would be foolish
to imagine that this traditional suspicion
of Australia will be dispelled overnight.
It may be felt that Australians, shrewd
as ever, are making a few slight conces-
sions today to put New Zealand in a
more vulnerable and dependent position
tomorrow. And New Zealand has seen
false dawns in trans-Tasman relations
before.
Possibly by its nature a limited agree-
ment must produce only limited interest,
or limited enthusiasm; and in this case
escape clauses written into the agreement
must temper enthusiasm still further.
There is still no real sense here that, as
one newspaper report suggests, the agree-
ment could be the most significant for
New Zealand in trade since the Ottawa
agreements of the 19305. If newspaper
correspondence columns are any baro-
meter, public interest in closer relations
with Australia in trade, politics or
defence has faded to almost nil since
the emotional reactions to Britain’s pro-
posed entry into the Common Market
three years ago. At that time it was
often argued that the time had come
for Australia and New Zealand to
close ranks and settle differences. How
this was to be done was never clear. It
has taken more than two years of pro-
crastination and negotiation to produce
the present very limited agreement. And
the fact remains that the Australian and
New Zealand economies are just not com-
plementary in this sense, as in others,
the 20th century has seen the two na-
tions growing steadily apart. Short of
a specific brake on this country’s grow-
ing industrial self-sufficiency, it is still
difficult to see how the present agree-
ment can arrest the trend. Or how free
trade can be pushed much further in
the years ahead. An economic expert
has estimated that any general free trade
agreement would halve North Island
manufacturing and reduce South Island
manufacturing by a third with a
consequent loss of skill and capital tied
up in those industries, and
presumably widespread un-
employment too.
Nor at the time of
writing—does the agreement
appear to have any clear
political end (unlike, say, the
European Common Market).
Much as it might surprise
the Australian, any real interest in
political integration still seems all on
the Australian side if the reported
speeches of politicians are any indica-
tion. (If it is natural for Americans to
suppose that Australians really want to
be Americans, perhaps it is natural in
the pecking order for Australians to sup-
pose that New Zealanders really want
to be Australians.) The characteristic
New Zealand view was stated sharply by
Leader of the Opposition Arnold Nord-
meyer on- his return from the recent
ALP conference, where Arthur Calwell
apparently pressed the subject of poli-
tical integration. “We have no desire to
become another Australian State,” he
was reported as saying (though Cal well’s
long-standing proposition, repeated dur-
ing his visit here at the beginning of the
year, is that North and South Islands
could join Australia as two States).
From the Right the reaction has been
as decisive. Said the conservative “New
Zealand Herald” earlier this year:
“ . . . there could conceivably be no All
Blacks. And there are about 12 million
other reasons why 2.6 million New Zea-
landers will turn down their thumbs:
There are 12 million Australians.” And
the “Waikato Times” more recently:
“Astonishing that any time or attention
should be given to the merging-with-Au**-
tralia idea. Ireland isn’t a tenth of the
distance from the other British isle and
look how far that merging operation
got.”
Submergence, loss of identity and vul-
nerability are fears which must haunt all
New Zealand's dealings with Australia.
They were real in 1901 when merger was
last an issue, and even more real now
that New Zealand has a distinct social


FLY
Ansett-ANA
DRIVE
AVIS
RENTA CAR
Avis rents Falcons
and other fine cars
f
FLY AND DRIVE IN ’65. It's time-saving . . . money-saving . . .
worry free! There’s no waiting with Avis. Step out of the plane, into
your car and off! Drive one of the great new Falcons or other fine cars
of the Avis fleet. It’s the jet age way to travel. Book your Avis car
when you book your flight. Avis honours Ansett-ANA credit cards.
ANSETT-ANA
A VIS RENT A CAR
13?€/e3/«5
and cultural -‘Jentitv. The voice of New
Zealand nationalism, still haul m rela-
tions with Britain, picks up strength sur-
prisingly whenever Australia comes into
the picture. If, on the face of things now,
there can never be much more than some
token political union (an annual get-
together of Anzac Parliamentarians has
been suggested) it is nevertheless strange
that contact between the two countries
should remain minimal on almost every
level. It must for example seem odd to
the outsider that, in a world of closer
regional groupings, the Prime Ministers
of the two countries meet almost solely
in London during Commonwealth con-
ferences to discuss mutual concerns.
Prime Minister Menzies may just have
been pleasantly lazy when he declined to
talk to. Auckland journalists or leave
his ship on his way through here on a
holiday cruise last summer, but he seem-
ed to many New Zealanders to be ex-
pressing general Australian indifference
to this country. How many years is it
since he has been here, anyway? And
wasn’t he even curious?
To be fair, indifference exists in almost
equal proportion on this side. Even if
the new agreement indicates only a mild
change of heart at the top and it must
be remembered that the escape routes
are wide enough to make it meaningless
overnight then it might still mean the
most important step in trans-Tasman re-
lations since New Zealand and New
South Wales were made separate in 1840.
11/feanwhile, New Zealand has a dif-
ficult enough problem in achieving
political unity within its own boundaries.
The drift of population from the South
Island to the industrialising north, ac-
celerating over the past few years, has
come to a head in Parliament. The South
Island has seen erosion of its Parlia-
mentary strength to 24 seats in the 80-
seat House. If the trend were not
arrested, it would have fewer than 20
within a decade or two. On the other
hand, the exploding Maori population
(which will shoot over 200,000 next
year) is still served by its traditional four
seats; the number has been static since
1867.
The two issues, really quite separate,
have come into collision spectacularly.
The National Government wants to peg
South Island representation at 25 seats,,
following an election promise to southern-
ers, and to push the number in the House
to over 80 as the total population
demands. The Labor Party went exactly
one better in its election promise: it of-
fered the South 26 seats. As a 75 p.c.
vote of the House is required for any
change, some compromise would not
have been difficult until Labor rais-
ed the quite critical issue of a fifth Maori
seat as a bargaining point. (All four
Maori seats have been Labor held
for 30 years.)
The result was a Parliamentary battle
more dismaying than enlightening. Mini-
ster of Maori Affairs Ralph Hanan
claimed to be “shocked and surprised”
that Labor wanted to increase Maori
representation. “This is nothing more or
less in 1965 than apartheid,” he said.
Maori concern and cynicism about
the issue is understandable. Neither poli-
tical party has yet stood a Maori or half-
caste for a safe European electorate.
(Most Maoris are of mixed blood anyway,
and therefore can opt to be either Maori
or European.) On this basis the National
Party, handicapped by lack of a Maori
spokesman in the House since 1935,
could have overcome its difficulty years
ago. It is natural then that on the issue
of abolishing separate Maori represen-
tation. many educated Maoris adopt a
tone of grim realism. “We've got to hold
on to what we have,” their argument runs.
“Otherwise we depend on vague good-
will.” Senior Maori MP Sir Eruera Tiri-
katene w'ants to see a number of Maoris
elected by Europeans before the sur-
render of separate Maori seats.


Never Again?
“I am the protector of everybody ”
From SAM LIPSKI in KUALA LUMPUR
Watching soccer; going to the races, especially to watch his own horses; or playing
golf even his closest associates differ as to which of these pursuits gives Tunku Abdul
Rahman the greatest pleasure. Last week for the first time in some months he was
able to enjoy, if only briefly and with some disappointment, all of them.
He was hoping that a horse he had
received as a gift from some Irish friends
might win the Gold Cup at the Ipoh
meeting. It did not get a place. He was
looking forward to some golf after the
tense negotiations which had resulted in
the separation of Singapore but a
Cabinet meeting and then a hurried trip
to Sarawak and Sabah to reassure them
of Kuala Lumpur’s intentions ruled out
more than two mornings of nine holes
each at the Royal Selangor course.
Himself a former centre-half of some
reputation, he went to the night soccer,
but only to see Korea defeat Malaysia 2-0
in the Merdeka football tournament.
What certainly did please the Tunku
was that the separation of Singapore had
passed into its second week without
serious incident. Indeed, he felt that
there had been a real cooling off of the
communal passions which he says im-
pelled him to act as he did.
Sitting on a sofa in the Residency, a
sprawling bungalow on Federal Hill over-
looking his capital, the Tunku was ex-
plaining to yet another group of foreign
correspondents what had happened.
Asked what evidence he had that racial
tensions were rising—had there been any
reports or real indications from any
special areas —he answered character-
istically: “I didn’t want it to get started
at all.”
I asked him whether both he and the
Singapore leadership had not given in to
a war of words and slogans in abandon-
ing the idea of a multi-racial federation
so soon after its establishment. Granted
that it may have been premature once
started, was not less than two years a
very short period in which to expect
complete harmony? The answer was the
man.
“You do not live in this country and
you see things as an outsider. My soul,
my heart is with this country. I am the
father of Malaysia. You can ask any-
body. I am the protector of everybody.
I am the father and protector; I want
and work for peace and harmony for
all my children. I do not want this
enmity, this acrimony. I did not want
my children to fight one another. If you
were to live here if you were to
breathe the same air as we do you
would know that you don’t have to
wait. We had no right to wait. You have
to feel it as I felt it.”
There can be no quarrelling with that
sort of answer. And there can be no
quarrelling with the sincerity of the
Tunku’s desire to prevent bloodshed. But
to the outsider the idea that the Malays
and Chinese were at flashpoint, or could
have been brought very quickly to
flashpoint, is a hard one to accept if he
restricts his visit to Kuala Lumpur.
Swimming pools are supposed to be a
good indicator of racial divisions. But
at the Kuala Lumpur pool Chinese and
Malays as well as Indians and Europeans
swim together. There are no separate
changing rooms or toilets just as there
is no public discrimination anywhere in
hotels, cafes, shops, public transport.
One clue that the group is more con-
cerned with internal politics and putting
pressure on the Tunku is an editorial in
the Malay language “Utusan Melayu”
which carried its messages of incitement
against Lee Kuan Yew to the kampongs
for many months prior to the separation.
In the issue of August 13 (which means
it would have been written a day after
the statement from the AAPSO), the
paper commented: “That these foreign
bases have been the cause of several
matters which are detrimental to Malay-
sia is no longer a secret. It has been
public knowledge that the Indonesian
confrontation was launched against
Malaysia due to the existence of these
bases. It is these bases that have kept
Malaysia apart from a large section of
the Afro-Asian countries.”
Yet. as one Malay civil servant explain-
ed, this was one of the reasons why when
racial tension did develop the fears of
violence were greater. “You see, we T re
not like America where, if racial riots
break out, they break out in one area
usually the Negro area. The police can
localise it and the rest of the white
people can just stay away if they don’t
want to get hurt. If we had violence here
it would be all over the place and every-
where because we are ail mixed up to-
gether.”
If it is true that there has been a sub-
sidence of communal differences with
separation, it is by no means the end of
the Tunku's difficulties which now come
from within his own party, and from the
growing murmurs of discontent in Sabah
and Sarawak. The party differences are
unlikely to seriously threaten his posi-
tion or that of his certain successor, Tun
Abdel Razak. But they are pointers to
the future development of political align-
ments within Malaysia, and however
small the base of support for the differ-
ing groups might, be among the Malay
population, the dissident elements do have
nuisance value and in some cases more.
Of these the most interesting to watch
currently is the Afro-Asian Peoples'
Solidarity Organisation which two days


RUGGED, DURABLE, DEPENDABLE and hamW, too!
YOUR CHOICE OF 10-KEY OR FULL KEYBOARD
Y
m
/
’SV,
NCR Adding Machines are ruggedly built
to give you many years of service, with
minimum maintenance. All models have
precision-made, heavy-duty parts. Quality
control, numerous inspections and tests go
into every step of production . . . from raw
materials to finished machines.
Quality-built NCR Adding Machines are
your best buy because they’re dependable,
efficient and beautifully styled. They last
longer because they’re built stronger. In
the long run they cost you less to own
and use. For a demonstration, without
obligation, call your NCR office.
THE NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO. PTY. LTD.


IP
c
\\
NEW ISSUE FROM . . .
CUSTOM CREDIT
UNSECURED
NOTES
DEBENTURE
STOCK
H% ... 6-10 YEARS
7 % ... 5 YEARS
7 % ... 4-5 YEARS
6|% ... 3 YEARS
6 % ... 2 YEARS
5?% ... 12 MONTHS
41% ... 6 MONTHS
4|% ... 3 MONTHS
Applications will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to in and attached
to a printed copy of the Prospectus which is
now available from any Member of a recognised
Stock Exchange and all Branches of . . .
THE NATIONAL BANK
and
CUSTOM CREDIT CORPORATION LTD.
OP THE UNDERWRITERS:
Ord Minnett, T. J. Thompson & Partners
INTEREST
UP TO
0
z
r°
2
FOR
CC2.53.45
after the separation called for “an im-
mediate and thorough review of Malay-
sian foreign policy particularly on ques-
tions relating to foreign bases” and
strongly urged the Malaysia govern-
ment “to take the initiative to work
positively towards an honorable settle-
ment of our dispute with Indonesia”.
There have always been elements with-
in the Tunku’s party who have felt that
peaceful relations with Indonesia were
essential to maintain a counterweight
against Chinese “expansion” from Sin-
gapore, and with Singapore out of the
Federation they may well be prepared
to push for a settlement even if it means
the loss of Sabah to Indonesia. These
doubts and uncertainties about how much
say these elements have in Kuala Lum-
pur must have been one of the reasons
why the Chief Minister of Sabah, Dato
Stephens, resigned at the weekend and
thereby raised even further doubts about
the future relations between the former
Borneo States and Malaya.
T>ut relations between Singapore and
Kuala Lumpur took a somewhat
more optimistic turn last week when de-
fence 'arrangements were worked out
with relative smoothness and despatch—
especially when the Singapore Infantry
Regiment left for a tour of duty in the
Borneo territories. At a briefing shortly
after the talks Defence Minister Tun
Razak was hopeful and optimistic about
the planned tripartite agreement now
being worked out between Britain, Sin-
gapore and Malaysia and the new bi-
lateral defence agreement with Singa-
pore. Close operational arrangements
between the two States have been ensured
by the setting up of a Combined Defence
Council and a Combined Operations
Council.
When the initial talks were over there
were encouraging remarks from Singa-
pore’s Defence Minister Dr Goh Keng
Swee “Our defence is indivisible”
and from the Tunku who patted Dr Goh
on the back and said, “We will do or die
together.”
Even on the crucially important eco-
nomic relations between the two coun-
tries there were hopeful signs. Malay-
sia has agreed to a normalisation plan
which would leave things as they were
before the separation. At the weekend
the Singapore Cabinet had not yet for-
mally accepted the plan although its
working committee which had helped to
draw it up obviously favored it. If this
status quo ante plan is accepted some
fundamental economic problems remain
but there will, at least, be a basis for
further talks. The previous week of
independence for Singapore with Singa-
pore’s imposition of restrictions on some
Malaysian goods, the threatening talk by
the Tunku on the question of Singapore’s
resuming Indonesian trade, and the an-
nouncement by the Malaysian Minister
of Finance, Mr Tan Siew Sin, that Gov-
ernment departments would have to buy
locally made goods even if they were ten
per cent dearer than Singapore’s, was a
far less optimistic one.
If the economic arrangements can be
worked out quickly and with a minimum
amount of recrimination, then many of
the other doubts raised by separation
may also in time be eased. Manufac-
turers and businessmen on both sides of
the Causeway have welcomed the possi-
bility of establishing a Common Market
as a practical solution to the difficulties.
If anything, there is more talk of a
Common Market now than there was be-
fore separation, when the realities of the
differing economies of Singapore and
the mainland were sometimes blurred
over.
Again, one is reminded of the empha-
sis that Lee Kuan Yew put in the first
week of Singapore’s independence on
what he described as the nexus between
economies and politics, between security
and communal relations. The inter-
dependence of these relations is clear
when you talk to Malaysia’s Finance
Minister, Mr Tan Siew Sin, who is also
the leader of the MCA (Malaysian
Chinese Association), the party which is
the Chinese voice in the Alliance gov-
ernment. He says that he is anxious to
have good relations with Singapore but
he also insists that his first priority is
to the mainland economy. He points out
that with the separation of Singapore
he has lost about £2O million in revenue
which he will have to make up somehow.
Seen in the long-term he hopes that
Malaysia’s dependence on Singapore as
a port can be lessened and he talks of
expanding mainland ports like Port
Swettenham. “Would you be happy if
you had to sell all your Australian wool
through New Zealand?” he asks.
The attitude of Mr Tan and his party
to future economic relations may well
depend on what sort of political inroads
the Malaysia PAP makes on the main-
land and how far Lee Kuan Yew keeps
out of mainland politics. Even if Lee
Kuan Yew keeps out of mainland poli-
tics the question still remains whether
his ideas of a “Malaysian Malaysia”,
with Singapore part of the whole on an
equal basis, will also fade. The Tunku
has said that Singapore and Malaysia
will not come together again. But in
the Turkish-delight-style buildings which
house Malaysia’s public servants and
among the younger shapers of the
country’s affairs, there is a strong feeling
that history, geography, and time
perhaps ten years, perhaps 20 will
bring Singapore back into a Malaysian
Malaysia.


AUSTRALIAN
SOCIETY
A Sociological
Introduction
edited by
A. F. Davies
S. Encel
The first general picture of the
Australian people —their atti-
tudes, beliefs and behaviour.
Wide in range, professional in
execution, this book contains
all available information about
the patterns and structure of
social life in Australia.
It will prove vital and fascinat-
ing to all those interested in
sociology as a study, Australia
as a whole, or both.
52/6
F. W. CHESHIRE
Melbourne Canberra Sydney
NEW YORK NEWSLETTER
Peeping Dons
A fast buck from President Kennedy
By GEORGE McGANN
Is it instant history or fast-buck
hysteria? The unprecedented rush
to get into print with personal recol-
lections of the late John Fitzgerald Ken-
nedy reached some kind of high point;
or nadir, when the three leading slick-
paper big - circulation magazines ap-
peared simultaneously with the hand-
some late President’s photograph on
their covers and intimate revelations by
former close associates on their insides.
For the modest outlay of two shillings
or so, the American reader had his
choice of Arthur Schlesinger Junior in
“Life”, Theodore Sorenson in “Look”,
or Mrs Evelyn Lincoln in the “Saturday
Evening Post”. Avid Kennedyphiles, of
course, bought all three, and no doubt
got their money's worth. Schlesinger is
the only professional historian in the
trio, a Harvard professor who was a
special assistant to the late President
and, as such, privy to all major problems
and decisions of the Thousand Days.
Sorenson, another academic, was if any-
thing even closer to Kennedy, as his
principal speech writer and boyhood
chum. Mrs Lincoln was his secretary,
both in his bachelor, Senatorial days,
and in the White House.
To take the least first, Mrs Lincoln’s
exercise in biography is of the warts-
and-all school, with rather more warts
than you would expect from a dedicated
lady who at the beginning worked with-
out pay for the fledgeling politico from
Back Bay and who is donating all pro-
ceeds from the sale of her book—“My
Twelve Years With Kennedy”—to the
Kennedy Memorial Library Fund. She
draws a portrait of a rather self-centred,
forgetful, irritable and demanding boss.
As a bachelor, Kennedy would
casually ask Mrs Lincoln to telephone
one of his girl friends to make a date
for the movies that night. (If the girl
was late the Senator got furious, but
more often than not he was the guilty
one.) An exception was Jacqueline
Bouvier, whom Kennedy always tele-
phoned himself. “I thought she must be
someone special,” confides Mrs Lincoln.
Among her other intimate disclosures:
her late boss was a miserable speller,
had poor penmanship, kept an untidy
desk and had a habit of yelling loudly
for the nearest assistant (often Sorenson)
when displeased by a newspaper article
about himself or his administration.
Sorenson's recollections of Kennedy—
so far —have been far less personal than
Mrs Lincoln's or Schlesinger’s. In the
first “Look” instalment he went to some
length in denying that the ultra-conserva-
tive Joseph P. Kennedy was able to in-
fluence his son's political direction. He
also provides samples of the famed JFK
wit. The President was asked by a high-
school admirer how he came to be a hero.
“It was easy,” Kennedy replied. “They
sank my boat.”
The Schlesinger memoirs are some-
thing else again. Where Mrs Lincoln
confined herself to Kennedy in the office
and Sorenson to Kennedy in the con-
ference rooms, Schlesinger has invaded
all of the White House, including the
Presidential bedroom.
Mrs Kennedy saw her husband shed
tears only twice, reports Professor
Schlesinger. The first time, soon after
their marriage, was when he was suffer-
ing terribly from back pains and des-
paired of any real improvement in his
condition. The other occasion was after
the disastrous failure of the Bay of Pigs
invasion by Cuban liberators.
“Now in the bedroom,” reports
Schlesinger, “he put his head into his
hands and almost sobbed, and then took
her in his arms.” Again, writing of Mrs
Kennedy, “She sometimes cried, ‘Oh,
Jack, I’m so sorry for you that I’m such
a dud.’ He would tell her that he loved
her as she was.”
In reading a passage such as this, it
should be remembered that Schlesinger
once dismissed Richard Nixon this way
• “the hard fact is that Nixon lacks
taste”.
Not only taste but tact seems to have
eluded Schlesinger when he got round to
discussing Dean Rusk, who was not only
Kennedy’s Secretary of State but is now
very much President Johnson’s Secretary
of State. The “Buddha-like” Secretary,
observes Schlesinger, was marked for
dismissal from his post by President
Kennedy and “lived under fear of in-
adequacy and humiliation”. As if that
were not enough fodder for Rusk’s
Washington foes, particularly those who
oppose his “hard line” on Vietnam,
Schlesinger goes on to say that the Sec-
retary possessed an instinct “for service,
not for mastery”, and a mind that, “for
all its strength and clarity, was irrevoc-
ably conventional”.
Faced at a Washington Press con-
ference with these quotations, Secretary
Rusk came off very well indeed. “I am
not going to comment on these par-
ticular remarks,” he said acidly. Then,
with emphasis, “When the time comes
for me to leave office my papers will be
in the files of the Department of State
or in the Kennedy or Johnson libraries.
I shall take none with me.” A pause for
more emphasis, and then, “But my-
associates in government and my col-
leagues abroad can rest on the assurance
that when they deal with me on the basis
of confidence, that confidence will be
respected.”
With that shaft at Schlesinger, Dean
Rusk put his finger on a critical issue
raised by these inside, tell-all books
who at the top level of government, or
international diplomacy, can now be sure
that confidential discussions or actions
will remain confidential?
“It’s not a very pleasant feeling,” the
late President Kennedy commented,
“when you know you have eight people
around you keeping diaries.”


THE WEEK
OVERSEAS
VIETNAM
U.S. Blooding
A T dawn last Wednesday three companies
of US marines stormed the beach near
the South Vietnamese town of Vantuong in
the first combat amphibious landing of the
Vietnam war. Two miles inland a marine
battalion landed by helicopter. Then while
a third marine group acted as a blocking
force across a small peninsula north of the
landings, the two assault units fought their
way through Vietcong positions to a link-up
that—as an American spokesman described
it later —"closed the trap completely round
three sides of the enemy forces".
Thus was launched the first major ground
battle fought solely by American troops in
the Vietnam conflict. US officials in Saigon
called it "the biggest thing we've ever had"
against the Communist Vietcong.
US officials regarded the operation as a
big success that confronted the Communists
with the choice now of ' expanding their
military efforts or moving toward peace
talks. The battle marked the first time that
American troops have been really blooded
in Vietnam. To many observers it appeared
to signal the long-expected move to large-
scale offensives that inevitably mean in-
creased American casualties.
INDONESIA
The Axis
governments have become
inured to rhetoric out of Djakarta, but
few were prone to ignore what President
Sukarno told a gathering of more than
100,000 Indonesians last week in Freedom
Square before Djakarta's Presidential Palace.
In a 139-minute State of the Nation speech
on the twentieth anniversary of Indonesia's
independence, Sukarno proclaimed a new
Anti-Imperialism Axis joining Indonesia with
Communist China, North Korea, North Viet-
nam and the Kingdom of Cambodia. The
objective: to make the United States, Britain
and other Western powers "get out of the
whole of South-East Asia altogether".
GERMANY
Auschwitz Guilt
former members of the Nazis'
Auschwitz Concentration Camp staff
listened calmly in a stifling Frankfurt court-
room last week while a West German court
pronounced them guilty of having par-
ticipated in murder and torture. The court
ordered life imprisonment and hard labor
for six of the defendants as punishment for
the murder of thousands of prisoners in
Poland during World War 11. The penalty
is the severest that can be inflicted under
West German law—the death penalty was
abolished in 1949. Eleven other defendants
received sentences of 39 months to fourteen
years with hard labor for complicity in
murder. Three of the defendants were set
free because of lack of evidence. The
accused, all but one former members of the
Nazi SS, sat quietly in the tiny court-room
as Judge Hans Hofmeyer declared: "Human
life is too short to expiate the crimes com-
mitted at Auschwitz".
None of the defendants had been particu-
larly important in Hitler's Third Reich. In
court they looked like any other group of
ordinary, middle-aged and elderly Germans.
But through the 20-month trial, described as
the longest in German history, witness after
witness testified that these men had committed
mass murder by poison gas, shooting, elec-
trocution, hanging, bludgeoning, lethal injec-
tions and torture.
Prosecution lawyers expressed themselves
satisfied with the sentences. Defence lawyers
said they would appeal the verdict only on
the basis of technical errors in the judgment.
The defendants were ordered to pay all the
costs of the trial which involved 360 witnesses
and nearly three million words of testimony.
UN
The Debtors
JT took only 20-odd minutes last week for
the United States to reverse its policy
on United Nations financing and to end a
year-long dispute which might have wrecked
the organisation. By standards of UN debate
the statement made by Ambassador Arthur
J. Goldberg was almost shocking in its direct-
ness, brevity, and candid acknowledgement
of what he called facts of life. The US was
giving up the struggle to take away the
voting rights of 12 countries: the US was
doing so because it lacked sufficient backing
of the members to carry the fight further;
and it was acting regretfully and reluctantly,
but there would be no further effort when the
General Assembly meets next month to
invoke Article 19 of the Charter stipulating
that members which fall two years behind
in payment of their assessments shall lose
their vote in the Assembly. Russia, France
and 10 others are in that category.
INDIA
Battle Songs
M°BE than 100,000 demonstrators massed
outside Parliament House in New Delhi
last week and chanted a new battle song:
"The hour has struck, young men wake up;
Mother India is beckoning you. See how
enemy forces are challenging us on the
borders. In the name of the Motherland I
ask you to sally forth and lay the enemy
low. Let the enemy hear the thunder of
India's legions." The demonstrators were
members of the Jan Sangh, an extremist
Hindu party with only 17 seats in Parliament.
Nevertheless, the demonstration was the
biggest in the capital since India gained
independence in 1947 and it clearly reflected
a popular demand for a more militant stand
against neighboring Pakistan.
Behind the demand are recent events in
Kashmir where infiltrators have been creep-
ing across the cease-fire line and attempting
to sabotage bridges, communication lines,
police stations and schools. India has
charged that the infiltrators are, at least in
part, members of the Regular Pakistani Kxmj,
Pakistan, in turn, claims that the unrest in
the Indian sector of Kashmir is essentially
a rebellion of elements of its largely Moslem
population assisted by a few civilian "volun-
teers" from across the line in the Pakistani
sector. Although the Indian Army and police
forces have claimed to have the situation
under control there are some indications that
it may be more serious than originally
believed. Last Wednesday a spokesman
placed the number of infiltrators across the
line at between 3000 and 4000 and more
were coming all the time.
Both in Government and private circles in
New Delhi there are those who say India
cannot forever remain on the defensive. After
the Chinese attack in 1962, Pakistan's attack
in the Rann of Kutch and now the Kashmir
infiltration many people feel India must show
that it cannot be pushed around.
GREECE
Last Ditch
JULIAS TSIRIMOKOS, 58, is a bespectacled
intellectual whose mild manner contrasts
with his background as a socialist activist in
the guerrilla movements against the German
occupation in World War 11. After the war
Mr Tsirimokos carried on the ceruse by trying
to block the restoration of the Greek
monarchy. Last week, paradoxically, Mr
Tsirimokos became a last-ditch hope of 25-
year-old King Constantine to save the mon-
archy in Greece's tangled political crisis.
The crisis began last month when the King
faced an increasing challenge from ageing
(77) but fiery Premier George Papandreoa
who sought io enlarge his authority and
that of his Communist supporters —at the
expense of the monarchy. King Constantine
forced Mr Papandreou's resignation and
then made several efforts to install a new
Premier. The efforts failed as Papandreou
defiantly held together his Centre Union
Party, a grouping of eight factions that had
forged a majority of 171 of the Parliament's
300 seats. Mr Papandreou then delivered an
ultimatum to the King: either welcome him
back as Premier or call national elections
that would in effect be a plebiscite on the
monarchy. The challenge was too jdrastic
for several Centre Unionists. One of them
was Mr Tsirimokos.
On Friday Mr Tsirimokos was sworn in
as Premier and a mob of 15,000 demon-
strators surged through the streets of Athens
shouting their support of Mr Papandreou.
Police brought tear-gas and fire-hoses to
play, but the riots continued. The real test
will come this week as Parliament convenes
for the five-day confidence debate. If Mr
Tsirimokos fails, observers see several
possible courses for Greece's political future
—the return of an even stronger Papandreou
and perhaps an end of the monarchy; a
takeover move by an increasingly restive
army; or a situation bordering on anarchy.
US
The Riots
\\7HY did trouble come to Los Angeles?
US Federal officials suggested: (1) LA
was the only major city that had not set up
a local organisation for the Federal anti-
poverty programme; (2) LA leaders feel they
are at the mercy of - bigoted police and the
local administration had dpne nothing to
counteract this feeling.


* Australian Society. A Sociological Inlro-
duction. Edited by A. F. Davies and
S. Encel. F. W. Cheshire. 52s. 6d.
DANGER! Here Come
the Sociologists
Some lessons from the First Fleet
By DONALD HORNE
In a recent issue of “Encounter”, P. B.
Medawar met the view that science
is about to sink under its “ballast of
factual information” with the suggestion
that the more mature a science is, the
less it is burdened with facts. “As a
science advances, particular facts are
comprehended within, and therefore in a
sense annihilated by, general statements
of steadily increasing explanatory power
and compass—whereupon the facts may
be forgotten, for they have no further
right to independent existence.”
Medawar points out that biology be-
fore Darwin was almost all facts and no
biology. He suggests: “There is an epoch
in the growth of a science during which
facts accumulate faster than theories can
accommodate them.”
I recalled this article when reading
“Australian Society”"', just published, and
billed as the first sociological survey of
Australia. I am not going to attempt to
review this book. (I do not think it is
possible to review a book that consists
of a lot of chapters, written by a lot of
different people, all with different sub-
jects, and most with different ap-
proaches.) However, there are three
general observations about the book I
feel bound to make before returning to
the particular point of this article.
One is that anyone interested in Aus-
tralia should go off and buy a copy of
“Australian Society” and read it. The sec-
ond is that there are not many surprises
in it. (This is not a complaint.) The
third is that, given the editor’s own de-
finition of sociology, the book is only
"Some tip! what do you think
this is - the Egalitarian Society?"
partly sociological. In other words, it
does not match its own description.
“Sociological” is too big a word for it.
It’s a book containing articles on some
aspects of Australia, some of them
sociological.
Now to get back to the point. If we
are in for a run of sociological examina-
tions of Australia (and I hope we are)
what on earth are we going to do with
its “ballast of factual information”? The
editors of this book suggest that sociology
is an academic discipline (ah so!) seeking
to illuminate the results of social surveys
by systematic thinking about social groups
and institutions.
This sounds pretty good. But anyone
acquainted with some of the social sur-
veys conducted for marketing or adver-
tising purposes (and this is the main con-
tinuing survey work being done in Aus-
tralia) knows how necessarily tedious and
cautious the presentation and analysis of
survey work must be.
estimate the effectiveness of a sur-
A vey on a problem that is much more
simple than most of those taken up by
sdciologists, one must first become ac-
quainted with the way in which the
survey was conducted, and then analyse
a whole lot of observations. The final
result may provide a few paragraphs of
tentative conclusion and several pages of
careful qualification. To reach these
conclusions may take some days, includ-
ing considerable discussion. The con-
clusions might remain disputable.
This long-winded way of writing a few
paragraphs can work very well with
marketing or advertising problems. It's
worth the time. But how do we handle
this kind of long-windedness and tenta-
tiveness when talking or writing about
Australian society? How can we bring
survey results into general intellectual
discourse without using them fraudu-
lently?
I am afraid that, on the whole, going
on past performance, we'll dodge the
issue. We’ll be prepared to be fraudu-
lent. Perhaps that is the only possible
answer. It has certainly been a feature
of recent writing on Australia that we
are prepared to quote the findings of
some piece of improvised and technically
worthless research (cottage industry stuff
that should never have been conducted)
"What do you mean archetype,
buster?"
and glow with the warmth of scholarship
as we do so.
I shall restate the point. Some of the
most publicised “research” that has been
carried out by academics in Australia
has been meaningless. It has been
wrongly based. It should never have
been undertaken. Yet the “findings” of
this “research” have now become sacred
texts, quoted again and again—and all
nonsense.
We must avoid the danger that it
should become voguishly “academic” to
repeat any old research findings, includ-
ing unjustifiable findings based on sound
research or ridiculous findings based on
unsound research, and to feel that by do-
ing this one is being somehow more
scholarly than a descriptive writer. What
can be done? How can we raise the level
of intellectual discourse of this kind to
the sceptical, cautious and careful
methods of the best marketing research?
One thing one expects of the University
professionals is that they should police
their own standards. They should expose
imposters. Or to put it more exactly, if
someone's research findings are worth-
less, his colleagues should say so in
print. That might make the offender
more careful in future. They're all
being too kind to each other at present.
People are getting away with shoddi-
ness.
Another thing that might be expected
is that people should stop conducting
silly research. Most of the chapter on
painting in “Australian Society” is con-


cerned with research that is itself so
inadequately based that it should never
have been conducted. Its conclusions
are useless because what has been sur-
veyed is eccentric. (Yet I am sure that
we shall soon see them being quoted
without qualification.)
If people have not got the resources
to conduct proper research into a sub-
ject they should leave it alone. Bad
research is worse than no research. There
is nothing scholarly, in itself, in a statis-
tical table.
Another discipline that University staff
should accept is to avoid premature
ejaculations of triumph that research has
destroyed a “myth”. (It is not unusual
in marketing research to find that re-
search has explained a “myth”, rather
than destroyed it.)
HPhe editors of “Australian Society”
A commit this fault in their introduction
—and there are other chapters where you
can’t hear the sociology for the popping
of the myths. An example: because one
survey suggests that, on the whole, Aus-
tralian women rule the roost at home
there is criticism of the belief that
Australia is a man’s country. Brief com-
ment (apart from the fact that this was
no news to me): when people speak of
Australia as being a man’s country, if
they are speaking at all carefully (and I
assume that sociology is not concerned
with refuting the myths of careless people
although it may examine them) they are
referring usually to access to leisure
activities, not to home rule, or access to
employment opportunities, or to the
general or prevailing tone of many
aspects of Australian life.
Now, perhaps, surveys could establish
that all of these other “myths” are un-
true. But the findings of one survey—
about decision-making in home life—— do
not lead to any inference at all about
other activities. Nor do they lead to
any inferences about home life itself
other than the matter tested (decision-
making).
They certainly do not lead to the
ludicrously unwarranted conclusion the
editors reach: “Much self - conscious
masculinity (e.g., that of the public bar)
appears less as arrogant choice than as
compensation for the small sphere of
competence accorded in the home.”
How on earth can they reach that
conclusion on the evidence presented?
The explanation could equally well (for
all one knows) lie the other way around:
in a man’s country the men concentrate
on expressing their masculinity, leaving
the running of homes to their wives. (In
some hunting and warring societies
exactly this seems to happen.)
Another example: the editors suggest
that a prime example of wishful thinking
is the myth that Australia is an egalitarian
and uniform country and that their text
now does that one in the eye. Once
again: when people speak carefully of
egalitarianism in Australia they are not
usually so crazy as to mean that all
Australians are equal but that, compared
with most other countries, there is a
great deal of equality in Australia, in the
general tone of Australian society, of how
people see each other, in access towards
"So you haven't been expressing
your latent homosexuality, you've
just been going to the pub to get
away from me."
"You know what you are? You're
a sociologist's goldmine, that's what
you are!"
"I dunno, I just don't feel lucky today."


BOTTLED BY THE WINEGBOWEBS, COONAWABB* ESTATE LTD.
S 3
-
3.
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CLARET
VINTAGE 1960
AUSTRAL lAN HERMITAGE NET 1 PINT 6 PI. OUNCES
BOTTLED BY THE WINEGROWERS. COONAWARRA ESTATE LTD.
!
X<
X «<
21 Si
m
m
s>
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CLARET
VINTAGE 1960
AUSTRALIAN HERMITAGE NET 1 PINT 6 PL. OUNCES
Now is the time to lay-down
Coonawarra Estate Claret 1960
V ■ •
Few Australian wines have as much potential for age improve-
ment as those from Coonawarra, where the select wines are labelled
Coonawarra Estate.
Vintage 1960 Coonawarra Estate claret, currently on sale after
more than 5 years in the winegrowers’ cellarage, is one of the finest
in recent years. It becomes all the more valuable because, due to
severe frost, there will be no 1961, as that year’s wine did not reach
the particularly high standards set for the Coonawarra Estate label.
The 1960 Vintage remains unchanged in price despite its additional
value, and you are strongly advised to invest in supplies of this
claret while it is still available.
COONAWARRA ESTATE CLARET
Vintage 1960
sft AN ESTATE WINE OF S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD.
the things or activities to which ordinary
people aspire, and so forth.
To suggest that there are social and
economic differentiations in Australia
does not confound this belief. Of course
there are! But how do they compare with
other countries? It is important that
sociologists should illuminate observa-
tions made on social and economic dif-
ferentiation in Australia. But once they
do so (and “Australian Society” still
leaves plenty more to do in these fields),
from this information in itself one learns
nothing about comparisons of Australia
with other countries.
Five rules
VTor does it tell the whole story of
Australian society. The more observa-
tions that are made the more likely it is
that some of these observations will con-
flict with other observations. And all
the conflicting observations may be true.
It is a feature of societies as of indi-
viduals that they are ambivalent. One
may not be able to find one single word
to describe their conduct. One simply
records the differences in behavior. That
is the description. One may never pro-
vide the explanation.
To make some observations that sug-
gest that snobberies exist does not demon-
strate that Australian society is not rela-
tively egalitarian. It demonstrates that it
has snobberies. Really complicated work
might then suggest that Australian snob-
beries are so different from snobberies in
many other societies that the information
on Australian snobberies confirms the be-
lief that Australian society is relatively
egalitarian.
If we are in for a bout of sociology, we
must have standards.
No. 1: No more patchy collations like
this, which, however useful most of the
individual pieces may be, pretends to a
. comprehensiveness it does not possess.
If people are interested in putting up
some general views about Australian
life, they should write a whole book, one
book per author.
No. 2: Don’t write eccentric (for ex-
ample, a chapter on paintings) or tattily
sketchy (the jottings on the urban con-
sumer) reports on research.
No. 3: Don’t write things that lag be-
hind the existing body of writing on a
subject. (For example, the authors of
the chapter on the media were behind
Henry Mayer’s book.)
No. 4: Don't merely popularise or re-
hash. (This criticism applies to several
chapters.)
No. 5: Don’t make unwarranted infer-
ences in a context that appears to be
statistical.
People who wish to be sociological
should accept the restraints of their own
approach.


m
mm
For you . . .
only the best
ASAHI
Here's the camera that is the ultimate choice
of discriminating professional and enthusiastic
amateur photographers all over the world; the
camera that brings you picture perfection
and personal prestige.
Asahi PENTAX introduces you to a new world
of photographic delight! A wide choice of
incomparable Takumar lenses and a full range
of accessories puts you in command of every
photographic situation.
Asahi PENTAX SV with f/1.8 Takumar
Lens and E.R. case, £9O/0/0.
Asahi PENTAX S.I.A with Auto Super
Takumar f/2 Lens and E.R. case,
£75/0/0.
Ask to see Asahi PENTAX at YOUR photo
dealer.
C. 957
Letters to the Editor
Vietcong
SIR. —The letter of the eleven Monash Uni-
versity men (B. Aug. 14) is quite unfair. It
purports to show that Mr Geoffrey Fairbairn
did not "produce evidence of Hanoi's actual
control over the Vietcong".
Firstly, it attempts to explain away only
one of four key quotations in the article.
Secondly, it seizes upon this one quotation
as though it were the only evidence Fair-
bairn could produce to support his claim
against Hanoi. Thirdly, it quite stupidly and
uselessly compares the utterances of a West-
ern-democratic politician to a carefully word-
ed statement of the Lao Dong (Communist)
Party of North Vietnam.
The criticized quotation was a statement of
intent and action by that Party in Septem-
ber, 1960. It is self-deluding to see it as
unique probably ten pages of "The Bul-
letin" could be wasted in boring reprints
of Hanoi's self-proclaimed aggression in the
South. It is, as Fairbairn pointed out, only
people who are ideologically committed to
rigid, simplistic conceptions of what makes
the world tick (e.g. Dr Cairns) who deny
these facts of the situation.
As far as "control" is concerned, one
wonders whether we are meant to believe
that it was a sheer coincidence that the first
phase of guerrilla warfare in the South
(described in Denis Warner's "The Last Con-
fucian") occurred in exactly the same period
as Hanoi determined 'to liberate South Viet-
nam from the ruling yoke of the US imperial-
ists". Is it irrelevant that the Southern-born
Vietcong who infiltrated into the South
after September 1960 had been trained ex-
tensively by the commissars of the People's
Army of the North immediately before arri-
val and carried directions for operation from
Party authorities in the North (Warner, ch. 8)?
Is it irrelevant that the "key personnel" of
the Vietcong in the South are Party-trained
cadres in close liaison with the North?
And, finally, what does think when
Ho Chi-minh himself states in the Belgian Party
paper "Red Flag" in 1959 that the coming
duty of the Northern regime is "to direct and
bring to a close the middle-class democratic
and anti-imperialist revolution" in the South?
Just under two years later General Giap,
head of the People's Army of the North,
boasts in the Party journal "Hoc Tap", that the
North is "the revolutionary base for the
whole country"!
Today, of course, the question of Hanoi's
control over the Vietcong is quite useless
in view of the presence of numerous North-
ern battalions in South Vietnam. So the
argument is a little tiresome now anyway.
PETER MANNING
University of Sydney,
Sydney (NSW).
"Chaos Day"
SIR. Your article about decimalisation by
"Batman" (B„ August 14) is a timely re-
minder of the old adage that minorities are
usually right.
Hardly had the ink dried on the paper
when large advertisements appeared bearing
out what Mr R. W. Parry says about the im-
pending shortage of coins. In fact that
shortage is already upon us exactly six
months before "C Day".
If Victoria's 4d. newspapers are in future
priced at 4 cents, this will be an increased
charge to the public of 20%. Alternatively
if the price is reduced to 3 cents, this would
be a reduction of 10%. This over a year
will amount to an additional £1 million or
a loss of £2 million.
H. F. M. SUMPTER
Avalon (NSW).
The Wool Scheme
SlR.—The comments by Croesus in his reply
(B. Aug 14) to my letter on the wool re-
serve price plan clearly indicate that he has
fallen hook, line and sinker for the mislead-
ing statements made by the opponents of
marketing. I therefore hope that he will take
note of the following figures in relation to
the prices of wool in Australia and South
Africa.
For the six years (1951-57) prior to any
reserve price scheme in South Africa in
other words when Australia and South Africa
were both selling on this most overrated free
auction system the average difference in
the average price of the South African wool
clip compared with the average for each
year of the Australian wool clip was 9.78 d.
For the seven years after the introduction
of the reserve price in South Africa this dif-
ference in average prices was reduced to
6.33 d. Furthermore in 1960-61, the year in
which South Africa had to support 37 per
cent of the entire clip, the difference was
reduced to 5.41 d.
If Australia could regain that 3.4 Ed. aver-
age that has appeared in South Africa's
favor since the introduction of the reserve
price scheme, the income of the woolgrowers
would be raised by approximately £24 mil-
lion annually.
The South African and Australian com-
parisons are the most reasonable as the Aus-
tralian wool clip is approximately 75 per
cent Merino, 25 per cent Crossbred whereas
the South African is almost 85 per cent
Merino and the balance what is termed
native sheep wool.
Comparison between New Zealand and
Australia, however, reveals that for the years
1951-2-3-4 the New Zealand wool clip
averaged some 21.6 d. less than the Aus-
tralian clip, whereas in the years 1961-2-3-4
the average difference was 3.81 d.
United Kingdom figures reveal an even
more startling result in favor of the marketed
clip. The price at which the UK was sold
by auction (this clip is acquired from the
growers, then classed and sold by auction)
was for the years 1951-2-3-4, an average of
16.73 d. less than the Australian clip aver-
age, but for the years 1961-2-3-4 was .7d.
more than the Australian average.
In 1960-61, the year we allowed our wools
to sell at well below the figure at which
the South Africans were "supporting" their
market (and incidentally a year of record
wool consumption), the UK wool average price
was 4.44 d. more than the Australian average.
As a member of the AWIC I can assure
both Croesus and your readers that I have
every faith in wool provided it is marketed.
No product, no matter how good, could con-
tinue to be of the maximum benefit to its
producer unless the sale of that product is
controlled by some means.
L. A. SIMPSON
Director,
Nowranie Pastoral Company Pty Ltd.
Oaklands (NSW).
"Croesus" replies: Obviously Mr Simpsor. is
an empiricist. As such, he might do well tc
remember that arguing from historical exam-
ples has only a speculative value if ex-
trapolated in vastly changed conditions. Has
he stopped to consider that imperfections in
the world wool market have been pro-
gressively reduced since South Africa and
NZ adopted reserve price schemes? This,
not those schemes, could well explain the
progressive narrowing of the difference in
returns, vis-a-vis Australia, of wool sales
by these two countries.


FESTIVAL
A SHORT STORY BY HAL PORTER
Biennially in an autumn
so very Keatsian on each
occasion that it was a model,
lucky, early-twentieth-century,
Fortnum and Mason Indian
Summer—the provincial city,
which fancied itself, held an
Arts Festival: a gesture of such
insolent brass that it gave the
impression of inspired gilt.
The city had, you see, a
colonial-Cocteau streak, a
Mediterranean - homo streak,
the mean superiority of a
small, pretty place. Nowhere,
however, in the natural trappings of the
ten-day expose of Culture in Australia
was there stint, pallor, bleakness or
over-subtlety. It was cornucopia season:
quinces and dahlias, guavas and tube-
roses, cumquats and grapes and pome-
granates and marigolds. Behind the
cast-iron filigree of city balconies fan-
like groupings of pampas, hollyhocks,
cannas and bella-donna lilies were done
by suede-shoed, middle-aged men who
lisped quite as much as Edward the
Peacemaker, and whose eyes glittered
with the gaminerie of 17-year-old girls.
That year, as ever, Perrot the novelist,
a recurring Festival invitee old enough
to refuse rather than pander, was fas-
cinated by prodigality, by the arty displays
of palms, bamboos and hibiscus in com-
mercial arcades and at the doorposts of
emporiums, state buildings, and Forsyte
Saga business houses. Fountains were
turned on. Please Deposit Your Litter
tins were painted. City lawns were plush.
Statues were clean the gulls and pig-
eons somehow statue-trained. Avenue
after avenue of trees forbore, as though
induced by municipal fiat, to shed a single
»one of their hundredweights of leaves
which remained aloft, an intense, mature
green, quivering on the brink of downfall.
Perrot was equally fascinated by what
gushed upon the city and its Indian
Summer from the cornucopia of invaders
-—opera-singers, novelists, composers,
actors and actresses, painters, orchestra
conductors, short story writers, sculptors,
ballet dancers of three sexes, best-selling
authors with threepenny integrities, Jew-
ish players of stringed instruments, poets
who wrote like Methodist spinsters and
talked like Dad’s Dave. These performers,
of varying degrees of richness, ripeness
and edibility, were embedded in camp-
followers journalists, publishers, log-
rollers, stage-directors, Aborigine-fans,
ABC bigwigs, Lawson-lovers, Arthur-
or-Martha costume-designers, editors of
litt'e magazines, Leftist academics, Leftist
folk-singers, Leftist organisers of esoteric
groups of the Prevention-of-Censorship-
Cruelty-to-Vilanelle-Writers sort; indeed
there was everywhere underfoot a Marx-
ist riff-raff so aware of the importance of
assumed modesty that their eyes were
nickelplated.
Perrot, involved in a bodiless form of
amatory commerce with everything, did
not find that the shoddier elements affec-
ted fascination: dislike and distaste were
the salt in it. Between Alpha and Omega,
between Day One and Day Ten, he did,
nevertheless, observe that exhilaration
diminished to exhaustion. More than any-
thing. noise was the cause. The fracas
of parties, debates, discussions, and in-
tellectual brawls. Shakespeare shouted in
a marquee. Ibsen. Shaw. Stravinsky. The
platitudes of University Vice-Chancel-
lors. The yelping of dug-up ballads by
grubby adolescents with dirty hair, dirty
garments, dirty beards, and dirty feet.
Operas. Bands. Poets ranting their works
to open-air audiences. Speeches. Loud-
speaker announcements. Whispered mal-
ices. Cultural gossip and back-biting in
voices of every tone. By the tenth day his
eardrums were in tatters, he was physi-
cally stonkered, his mind had been beaten
thin as tissue paper beneath the per-
sistent gavel.
It was with the relief of an inhabitant
of Bedlam accepting an invitation to
Robinson Crusoe’s island that he accep-
ted an editor’s invitation to dinner on the
last night. A charming, discreet, peaceful,
cosy woman, the editor, Marguerite,
would, she said, reserve a table at a
charming, discreet, peaceful, cosy res-
taurant she had discovered on the felloe
of the city. Peaceful! Perrot accepted
hyper-eagerly.
He left the last cocktail party a rout
of over-hungover writers and their
hangers-on hoarsely cracking away at
their wisest, alecking away at their smar-
test in plenty of time to stroll to the
restaurant, shedding as he strolled the
inconsiderable and desperate witticisms
of the final get-together he had deserted.
Perrot reached the restaurant in its
somnolent, outrider back-street at the
same time as twilight and Marguerite.
They climbed the stairs, effectively nar-
row. They were the last arrivals; their
table-for-two was the only one not yet
occupied. At a long central table a dozen
young people had obviously just arranged
themselves with hands-in-laps circum-
spection, the men in dark suits, serious,
bland faces, and modest ties, the women
in greyish-blues and unstartling pinks,
serious, bland faces, and meagre make-
up. Perrot noticed that the wine being
poured for them by a goat-eyed wine-
waiter, who looked Sicilian and turned
out to be so, was a saccharine, yellow-
ish, fizzy species dear to the working-
class on a night-out. Somewhere in the
shadows someone at an upright piano
sleepily played Santa Lucia. There was
no doubt that the someone would foggily
proceed to play Arrivederci Roma, Some-
where in Naples, Three Coins in the
Fountain, and so on ... no doubt any-
where. The restaurant was, all in all,
not only a cliche but a terribly old-fash-
ioned one: red-and-white-checked cloths,
candles in chianti bottles, grissini in little
baskets. The menu ran the short gamut
of the food of poverty masquerading, at
the price of fools, as food worth eating
. . . minestrone, spaghetti marinara, blan-
quette de veau.
Marguerite had booked a corner table
by a window from which, with their
backs to the room, they could look out
on nothing unseemly: the tops of street-
lining currajongs, a church spire pallid
from the emanation of unseen electrics,
a cupful of fresh stars artistically tossed
in the darkening heavens.
“It'll be wonderful not to talk,” Perrot
said, and Marguerite said. “We won’t talk
much,” he said, and she said. They did,
however, talk, but in fragments and about
nothing, and the cheap music rippled
shallowly on behind their backs. They
seemed to have, at last, left the uproar-
ious, flower-clotted the Festival,
to be drifting on a voiceless current to . . .
Perrot’s eyes, which had been half-
lost in the modest window-scape, sud-
denly found themselves, and sharpened.
With deliberate care he drank his hock.
With deliberate care he said, “Do you
feel that there is something wrong with
this place?”
Marguerite, the hostess after all, raised
her eyebrows.
“Do you feel,” he continued, “that


W A
lillil
'Slwlbisls
!
mm I
*
fit®
-
,c
:* *
I
,; »
9 MP-i#
ijps"
J s***^
* Jl
<■)
HEW
TO
MANDALAY
In the rugged gorges of the Avon Valley, north-east of Perth, men and machinery
are carving a new highway from the rock-studded earth. There is an excitement, a
sense of urgency about their work, for this will be a segment of the transcontinental
standard gauge railway line that will link South Brisbane to the port of Fremantle.
New road to Mandalay? Yes, and more
than that ... a new highway to the
export markets of the world; for along
this way will pass increasing volumes
of manufactured goods and primary
produce to supply the needs of the
growing Afro-Asian markets.
The recently completed Mclbourne-
Sydney standard gauge line demon-
strates the value of railways in the mass
volume transportation of goods at high
sustained speeds, and at rates no other
form of land-based transport can match.
The current building of the Broken
Hill-Port Pirie link, and that between
Kalgoorlie and Fremantle, is a further
vote of confidence by Australia in the
destiny of her railways. A transconti-
nental railway, of common gauge, will
prove the broad and enduring road down
which the nation will progress to an
even greater future.
Q
Inserted by authority oj the 'Commissioners oj the Commonwealth and State railway systems o] Australia.


ST
-;v
Approach lo Mtrdeka Itridqe, Sinqtipore
HONGKONG
BANGKOK
JESSELTOn.
PENANG
LUMPUR
KUCHING
SINGAPORE
HONGKONG BANGKOK
HD JETS
I MALAYSIA
WEEKLY
FREQUENCIES
SINGAPORE/HONGKONG *8
KUALA LUMPUR/HONGKONG-2
JESSEUOM/HONGKONG »2|
PENANG/BANGKOK »3
KUALA LUMPUR/BANGKOK-
SINGAPORE/BANGKOK ■
CD CO
MALAYSIAN AIRWAYS
MALAYSIA’S NATIONAL AIRLINE-SERVING SOUTH EAST ASIA
except wednesqw
CONSULT YOUR
TRAVEL AGENT
OR QANTAS.
OUR GENERAL
SALES AGENTS
IN AUSTRALIA
there is something important missing?
One of the elements? That something is
wrong!”
“The food?” said Marguerite. “Or do
you mean the hock? I’m happy about
mine.”
“No, dear hostess. Not the trite blan-
quette it’s superb. Not the mediocre
wine it's impeccable.”
“The twee candlelight?”
“Nor, dear Mag, the candlelight, the
check napkins, the nasty dry sticks in
the little basket. It’s not what's here that’s
wrong. There’s something not here . . .
that's what’s wrong. I know I’m over-
tired, and wide open to whims but . . . ”
“I thought,” she said, “that after the
hurly-burly of the last ten days you’d
like to be somewhere less strident, some-
where more soothing and ordinary, some-
where peaceful.”
Peaceful! She could see she had given
some sort of electric shock. He poured
himself more wine. He leant towards
her, and began to whisper.
“Listen,” he said, “iisten, lis'.en, listen.
That’s what’s wrong. This is more than
peaceful. There’s not enough noise. All
those people behind our backs, all those
villagers festivalising, out on th: tiles,
downing the vino. What are they up to?
Have they tippy-tiptoed away?”
As though believing they could have,
he turned to examine the shadowy room.
No one had left. The young people,
flushed with their sugary beverage, were
animated, were laughing, the men tossing
back their heads, the women with their
decorously painted lips parted. Their
shining eyes . . . oh, they were immensely
happy . . . were all turned to the head
of the table where one of the young men
stood, one foot on his chair, telling some
story. Witty merely? Mildly dirty? Out-
rageously scandalous? It was impossible
to tell. He could hot be heard by Perrot
or Marguerite, nor could he be read by
them. His fingers tolj the tale in a lan-
guage they could not translate. He gesti-
culated the final words at his table com-
panions who became more convulsed.
They writhed with noiseless laughter.
They raised their glasses, and toasted
their silent entertainer silently. They
waved to the Sicilian for more of the ef-
fervescent fluid they were drinking. The
dark-sleeved arms of the young men slid
amorously along the backs of the chairs,
around the shoulders of the deaf and
dumb young women in their muted pinks
and blues, and told with their warm
palms and fingers what their warm, dead
tongues could not say.
“An orgy,” said Perrot, turning back
to his hock. “A positive orgy.” And said
no more.
Behind the orgy, behind the cigarette-
smoke, in the restless shadows, the pian-
ist was playing Volare, decorating it with
showy tinklings and sentimental waxings
and wanings of tone, playing it again,
and again, with variations.
Downstairs, outside, blocks away,
poets, Marxists, short story writers,
critics, painters, professors, all listened
to each other's tipsy nonsense, and
shouted tipsy nonsense back. Elsewhere,
in other parts of the city, noisy last-night
performances of Shakespeare, Shaw, Ib-
sen, Stravinsky, opera, all were listened
to, and . . . clap, clap, clap. In the candle-
lit restaurant in the somnolent back-
street, Perrot and Marguerite, all the
other table-for-two diners, listened to
Volare, heard the show-off variations
out to the sickly sweet end, then . . .
clap, clap, clap.
Meantime, getting drunker and wilder,
deeper and deeper into the uproar of
their own agile fingers which flickered
faster and faster, those at the central
table did not turn their brilliant eyes
from each other, and did not clap Volare
with .hands that were voices becoming
louder, bolder, more reckless, more blur-
red— and louder and louder.


AMOCO CUTS COSTS FOR
AUSTRALIAN FORWARDING AGENCY
: ■
P
■
-■
m
I
fi
iM
M
V
mm
& WM. I
.
«
16
Big transport company learns ITS NICE GOING WITH AMOCO
AMO
C
o
OILS, FUELS & TECHNICAL SERVICE
AMOCO AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
MELBOURNE
34 Queen's Bead
Tel. H.
SYDNEY
102/m Arthur St.
Sydney. T el. 92-0842
' BRISBANE
Butwer Island
Tel. 60-4151
ADELAIDE
38/40 Currie St.
Tel. 51-2692
A properly managed Maintenance programme can mean the
difference between the red and black side of the ledger. Australian
Forwarding Agency have switched to Amoco Fuels, Oils and Greases
and are now following the Amoco Maintenance Plan which is really
paying off. John Taylor, AFA's Fleet Controller, says, "We're getting
a much better mileage from all our vehicles and, thanks to Amoco's
recommendation, we have been able to extend our oil change
periods radically. Our drivers report better performance, too, and
they are hard guys to convince."
If you are a user of Fuels, Oils and Greases in any quantity, Arpoco
can offer you the best products, service and technical assistance
available in Australia. Many Australian companies, large and
small, are making the switch to Amoco. Why not give the Amoco
Industrial Sales Manager a call—let him tell you how Amoco can
serve you.
AFA 1045


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Big, Tough and Tender
From R. J. SCHOLFIELD in London
As a class, painters are not the sort
of people on whom one imagines
the tax men find it worthwhile fix-
ing' much of an eye. An exception is
Charles Blackman, whose earnings since
he left Sydney five years ago have given
Britain’s Inland Revenue Department
some juicy pickings. And Blackman is
now pinning the prices on paintings for
an exhibition that looks like being the
most lucrative so far in his career.
For this to be so, the score or so paint-
ings in it will have to fetch more than
£7OOO sterling the level to which the
proceeds from a sale of Blackman’s
work have climbed. He has held 21 one-
man exhibitions, including a major Aus-
tralian show in each year of his absence.
The forthcoming exhibition, to be held
at London’s Zwemmer Gallery for three
weeks of September and October in con-
junction with the Commonwealth Fes-
tival, will represent a year of the most
ambitious work Blackman has done.
Now 37, Blackman began his career
when his mother got him a job as a
Press artist on the Sydney “Sun”. He
had left school at 15 and had hardly
any formal training. Even during his
five years with the newspaper, when he
attended classes at night, it was out of
other painters’ studios and from conver-
sation with them that he got most of
what makes him a painter today. After
five years, Blackman left the “Sun” and
drifted up and down Australia, doing
what he wanted.
His walkabout lasted until in Brisbane
he met Barbara Patterson, an arts
student at the University of Queensland.
While she continued her studies, he went
to Melbourne, establishing roots that
were to keep him there for 10 years,
apart from trips north, including one to
Sydney to' marry Barbara. The young
pair experienced the usual artists’
poverty. They lived for a while in an
old laundry in East Melbourne, mean-
while looking for a loft. One day in
Hawthorn they saw it part of an old
stable that had somehow got dropped
from the title of the property to which
it belonged.
Life in the loft lasted nine years, and
after them came a succession of other
painters as tenants a pattern that has
since been repeated in London, w'here,
after being the first artist family to in-
habit a Highgate fiat, they have been suc-
ceeded by Len French. Barry Humphries
and Bertram Mills’ grandson. “A
pioneer dweller,” suggests Blackman of
himself.
Blackman won the Helena Rubinstein
Travelling Scholarship in August, 1960.
He left with his family for England in
the following January. Before winning
the prize, Blackman had held a show in
Brisbane and sold £4OOO worth of paint-
ings by the preview date—a then record.
Bryan Robertson, talent scout for Lon-
don’s Whitechapel Gallery, who was on
an Arts Council tour of Australia, took
a liking to Blackman’s work and bought
a picture.
The Blackmans were met in London
by Arthur Boyd, who had come to
England a year earlier. Blackman painted
intensively for seven months, still,
despite his efforts to respond to the new
environment, under the influence of what
he had left behind —or failed to —in
Australia.
The bout, of painting culminated in a
one - man exhibition that had been
arranged by Robertson before he left
Australia. It was described by Eric New-
ton, doyen of English art critics who
died a few months ago, as “big, tough
and tender”. There were about 40 paint-
ings in it and he sold half of them for
£4500. His work is now represented in
all Australian national galleries and
universities and in many college and
private collections in Australia, the
United Kingdom and the United States.
Blackman’s art is about people. It is
simple and slight in the manner of a
smile, yet subtle and haunting. In it the
virgin child-woman keeps recurring and
being renewed—a form, stemming from
his life with mother and sisters, that is
for Blackman obsessive. His mother
taught him to understand what other
people feel. In this way the small man
with the sharp, intelligent face and the
large, kind eyes learned the language of
emotions, and with it the knack of
capturing the significant human gesture,
which, in his own words, “evokes the
sum-total of experience”.
“My work is like the ringing of bells
compared with the grand opera of other
MUSEUM PIECES
By David Swain
"Stop feeling criticised."


paintings,” says Blackman, but a London
critic put it another way: “The paintin|s
haunt one's memory because of their
passionate belief, which exists at such
£ pitch, such an altitude, that they
achieve the most rare and extraordinary
degree of poetic reality.”
For a while, during periods at Emer-
ald, near Melbourne, and in the rain
forests of Tamborine Mountain, outside
Brisbane, he digressed into landscapes—•
flower farms and moonlit roads but
these were dreamlike rather than direct
impressions, and soon the flowers re-
turned indoors and became involved with
faces, figures and gestures.
Some of the latest finished and un-
finished samples of his painting flavor
the big, rambling lived-in apartment he
and his family occupy near Baker Street.
It is less like a Central London flat than
a farmhouse kids wobbling along the
hallways on bicycles, a large scarred
sideboard with doors askew that seems
like a member of the family, Barbara
navigating expertly among the obstacles
both expected and unexpected, whole
rooms that seem to have been forgotten
and a big kitchen where friends argue
across a deal table and from whose ceil-
ing sides of bacon could well hang.
The studio is large, too, and if you
enter it when it is dimly lit from the hall
outside, the girl-forms around the wails
seem to move and speak. When Barbara
comes in, she knows just where to sit,
for to the studio she is no stranger. She
keeps close to her husband’s work
through talk, and applies her thinking
to his ideas.
“When I tell you the proceeds of a
show, I quote a bit higher than Charles,”
she explains, “because I like to include
the dribble of sales that occur for some
time afterwards as a result of its
stimulus. I'm more of a realist,” she
adds, but with a smile, for it is she who
is called to the rescue to explain the
complexities of his work when he finds
CHARLES BLACKMAN IN HIS LONDON STUDIO. Photograph by Axel Poignant.
the going tough. She has a memory like
a filing cabinet, trotting out dates, prices
and quotations and correcting him when
he remembers events in the wrong order.
So far as the painter knows, about
£20,000 worth of Blackmans last year
changed hands and there are more than
1000 of them at large in the world. A
Sydney art dealer last year sold for £7OO
a painting Blackman had been glad to
get £25 for six years earlier. He is un-
moved by this, for it has long since
ceased to be his painting, and he is now
as uninvolved with it as though it were
the “Mona Lisa”. At the same time, this
does not spell pecuniary detachment.
“Art is commercial,” says Blackman, and
turns with some relief from talk of its
other values to its monetary ones.
Blackman is not mystified by the
success of art in Australia. Reaction
from war, the economic boom and a
remote country’s craving for an image
to show the rest of the world are among
the sources he acknowledges. There is
also the illusion, fostered by distance,
that makes Australians think they must
strive harder than they really need to in
order to equal or surpass Europeans, so
that large numbers of them end up with
the success that is inevitable from above-
average effort. Underlying all this is
that painting is the first art to flourish
because it needs no cultural past.
After his Commonwealth Festival
show at the Zwemmer Gallery, the first
in London to hold a surrealist exhibition
and a magnet for the theatre fraternity,
Blackman’s thoughts will turn home-
wards, for, if events now shaping come
to fruition, he may be returning to Aus-
tralia for good at the end of the year.
His work being universal, he does not
seek out environments for it, but at times
the division between artist and man be-
comes blurred.
“Beaches, bikinis, swimming, icy beer.
You know, mate, this would do if I went
back.” Then, more thoughtfully: “Strad-
broke Island, off Queensland, an island
with wildfiowers in the middle of a reef
virginal, beautiful, remote” words
that would not be out of place in any
of his catalogues.
"They don't make them like that any more. "
"SMITH. S for Sedimentary , M for
Metamorphic, I for Invertebrate. .."


flv,
a / ft i\ \ A
Mi-in - -'Sa
si r ii* m
✓
I :i A
|;• | I' ; | ? I /\
i; 5 • Vj-:-. ..., I"' , A/v .: K I
«f ’
I#/ I o
>#/ i at ! s I
*4
r~
S/Li
#ss|
..a^
Ms U/ />
r //
!//
./ i
& !\\
*
\ \\ ! I
\ Y\
f f
1 \\
I v
1 V
England respects age ,
tradition and Scotland's
fine old Vat 69
All over the world . . . one Scotch stands out
VAT 69
NZL6S/6.2C
TELEVISION
Celestial Sigh
/\ne of the most welcome new faces in
local television belongs to a mysteri-
ous fellow named Graham Kerr, pro-
nounced Care, a New Zealand export of
such casual charm that he might easily
go the way of fellow countryman Brian
Henderson and be tapped to compere
something noisy enough to appeal to a
mass audience. However, his current pro-
gramme, “Entertaining With Kerr”, or
Care, is wonderfully peaceful, and fun all
the way. Filmed by Pan Pacific, the show
is only on TEN-10 in Sydney, so far.
When I looked in on him last week,
Mr Kerr stood before a chopping board
and began to talk of porterhouse steaks,
which he declared should be hung for
10 days until the juices set. Part of Mr
Kerr’s appeal is the way he leans on evo-
cative words, leans over cooking food
and lets loose the celestial sigh, making
viewers feel hungrier than may be good
for them at 10 p.m. Another unusual
facet of his approach to cuisine is his
pleasant abandon at the kitchen table. To
show how to hang the steaks, he pro-
duced a coil of steel wire, snipped a
length with pliers, and brushed the coil
to the floor.
He showed how to cut the muscle from
a porterhouse steak to prevent the steak
curling in cooking; chopped garlic, green
peppers, spring onions, tomatoes and
mushrooms, and dispatched them into
a saucepan; cooked four steaks in clarified
butter in an electric frypan, sprinkling
them liberally with freshly ground black
pepper; and discussed the virtues of each
ingredient with relish.
The four steaks were cooked, and with
many exclamations Mr Kerr garnished
them, describing the whole thing as a
“Whakatane steak”, pronounced Foka-
tane. By this time he had me in such a
good mood that I overlooked the out-
rageous claim that New Zealand had
invented garnished steak, and even the
notion that steak needs a garnish.
Here the mysterious part of Mr Kerr’s
performance began. After a short com-
mercial the camera found Mr Kerr and
two guests seated at a dining table, ap-
parently with the steaks inside them. The
lady agreed that the steak had been
beautifully crusty, and her husband spoke
fondly about the burgundy in his glass.
I was more interested in the fate of the
fourth steak.
The short entertainment sequence at
the end justifies the show’s name and
rounds it off nicely, but it also changes
the mood abruptly and weakens “Enter-
taining With Kerr”. The viewer has been
sold on the delights of eating the food,
and must be disappointed when he finds
it has been consumed, presumably with
relish, off camera.
DALE MILLER
FILMS
Nice Looking
The Moon-spinners. Director, James Neilson.
St James Theatre, Sydney.
Von Ryan’s Express. Director, Mark Rob-
son. Regent Theatre, Sydney.
two films, made with nothing but
A entertainment in mind, fulfil their
purpose admirably. With no pretensions
to great art, they are neatly expert, nice
to look at and, above all. good fun.
Walt Disney's “The Moon-spinners”,
a thriller set on Crete, has a light-hearted
approach to the improbabilities of its
plot. Hayley Mills plays an English
tourist visiting a remote Cretan village
where she finds herself innocently in-
volved with a personable young English-
man suspected (wrongfully, of course)
of theft, and a villainous Greek, the
real culprit, who soon includes Hayley in
his murderous plans. I’m sure there were
plenty of holes in the plot, but director
James Neilson leads his actors so briskly
in their merry dance across the wild,
beautiful island that nobody's got time
to look for them.
Neilson’s unobtrusive direction is com-
petent, though unremarkable; he seems
to have let his actors have their heads
though this, of course, may only appear
to be the case, in which case he's a lot
smarter director than he looks. Eli
Wallach gives a magnificent, eye-rolling
performance as the arch villain. Peter
McEnery makes an auspicious debut,
and Hayley Mills is more subdued and,
in consequence, more likeable than some
of her recent appearances. Disappoint-
ingly, Irene Pappas is wasted in a nega-
tive role.
“The Moon-spinners” has an extra
bonus the reappearance of the great
silent star Pola Negri. Like most people,
I’ve only seen her in clips in films like
“The Love Godesses” or “Silents Please”,
and it is fascinating to see the impact


THE SPECTACULAR
new Valiant
car with as much as this deserves to be looked /nfojj
MORE THAN JUST A POWER
OPTION...A BRILLIANT CAR
INDIVIDUALLY ENGINEERED
ALL THROUGH.PLUS LUXURY
INSIDE AS NEVER BEFORE!
“273” V 8
latest
and greatest in
engine design
TorqueFlite 'B’
3 speed Automatic
Floor console
Gearshift
Power brakes
and finned
brake drums
Whitewall tyres
6.95x14. Extra
-low profile
Slotted trim rings
Limousine look
special Vinyl
covered roof
VALIANT V 8 SEDAN £1775
SAFARI V 8 £1795
BOTH TAX INCLUDED
mm
" IaSfSS?
Sports-type,
contoured,
individual front
seats.
Doors trimmed
to full height
Hear seat with
centre armrest
(2 or 3 passengers)
Heater, demister,
screen washers,
courtesy lights
all 4 doors,
prismatic rear
vision mirror
26V2 cu.ft. luggage
boot, My lined
and carpeted
All this .. with the looks you like so well!
.
4s •#■• i
Hi
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIA LTD.
Valiant V 8 available as sedan (pictured above) and Station Wagon. Latter model has
all the mechanical features of the sedan, seating and trim as the Regal Safari, plus a
chrome roof rack as standard equipment.


SONY SUPREME
SOUND SYSTEM
SETS HIGHER STANDARDS
IN SOUND RECORDING
(
The SONY TC-500A tape recorder is the ultimate
for the musically sophisticated. With high
fidelity it covers the full sound spectrum audible
to the most sensitive and trained ear. Further
features to set the TC-500A apart are: 4 track,
Stereophonic and monophonic recording, sound
On sound. 2 infinite baffle speaker systems.
Separate controls for mix recordings. 2 VU
tneters, 2 probe microphones, comprehensive
Accessories. PRICE 204 gns. If you want easy
portability you might prefer the TC-200 at
J 42 gns. See and hear SONY at your retailer.
RESEARCH MAKES THE DIFFERENCE
Pistr.; Jacoby, Mitchell & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne
her richly funny performance as an
eccentric millionairess makes in this film.
This is one legendary star who turns out
to be a personality and an actress too.
“Von Ryan’s Express” is based rather
tenuously on David Westheimer’s novel,
the story of an American and a British
officer who, despite their antipathy,
manage to hijack the p.o.w. train taking
them to Germany and get most of their
men safely to neutral ground. The story
line still survives, but Westheimer’s
characterisation has been turned topsy-
turvy, possibly to fit the stars. After all,
who could believe in Frank Sinatra as a
spit-and-polish professional soldier? In-
stead he appears as a “90-day wonder”,
brave, resourceful but, from a military
viewpoint, a bit of a slob. But the film is
a fine bit of derring-do, with Sinatra,
Trevor Howard and Edward Mulhare
contributing lively performances.
Both movies have notably beautiful
color photography. William Daniels in
“Ryan” uses his camera fluently the
Messerschmidt attack is particularly
striking but Paul Beeson is generally
content to let the beauty of Crete do its
own work; shots of moonlit windmills
behind the credit titles of “Moon-spin-
ners” will remain long in the memory.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
MUSIC
Accelerating
ABC Youth Concert: Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, conducted by Willem van
Otterloo.
extent to which a conductor
tampers with a composer’s original
markings of tempo has often been cited
as the most reliable guide to that con-
ductor’s competence and sensitivity.
Klemperer and Bruno Walter tend
towards moderation, Toscanini and
Leonard Bernstein prefer to accelerate
things a little. To the band of speedy
conductors we must now add van
Otterloo, with the qualification that his
liberties are taken with justification.
In a programme that alternated be-
tween East and West (Haydn, Stravinsky,
Schubert and Borodin), van Otterloo dis-
played a remarkable control, almost a
calm deliberation, which was sustained
even during the frenzied gyrations of
the “Polovtsian Dances”.
Stravinsky’s “Symphony of Psalms”
was, however/ the most impressive and
effectively performed music of the even-
ing. From the beautifully windy
gurglings of the opening and the
emphasis given to the dense chords
which divide these phrases, it rapidly
became apparent that van Otterloo is an
artist whose approach is analytic rather
than openly expressive. As is the case
with nearly all of Stravinsky’s music,
development in the “Symphony” takes
the form of an intense series of elabora-
tions, expansions and reconstructions of
what is, on the whole, rather sparse
thematic material. An awareness of this
principle of neo-classical composition
allowed van Otterloo to mould the work
into a complete statement, powerfully
integrated through its well-defined inner
relationships.
Perhaps some of the passionate
champions of the “War Requiem” may
be brought to earth by the striking
similarities between Britten’s epic work
and this 1930 vintage Stravinsky.
Where Stravinsky was simply given
a subtle nudge in order to preserve the
flow of his music, Borodin was treated
to a hearty shove. With the exception
of the lyrical “Borne on wings of gentle
breezes” section, this entire excerpt
from “Prince Igor” N was taken at a
speed which would have defeated even
the fleetest Steppe-pony. The closing
two dances are marked presto and
allegro vivo respectively, and one
presumes that these were read as “as
fast as is humanly possible”.
It is encouraging to hear the orchestra
play once again with the precision and
style which made Dixon’s series of
Mozart concerts last yea; such a mile-
stone. Van Otterloo’s direction of the
Haydn Symphony No. 95 was percep-
tive, graceful and sure, a combination
of qualities which not only found a
response in the orchestra, but demon-
strated that the later Haydn symphonies
deserve a status in the repertoire greater
than that of their usual role of pro-
gramme padding.
DAVID SALTER
THEATRE
Jane’s England
The Hollow Crown. Devised by John
Barton. Pocket Playhouse, Sydney.
An Italian Straw Hat. Eugene Labiche.
Producer, James Lang. Independent
Theatre, Sydney.
seems to spring alive for us
when we hear voices from the past
speaking in their own lively and indivi-
dual tones, whether it be in letters, diaries,
chronicles, songs, poems or parliament-
ary proceedings. Norman McVicker’s
production of "The Hollow Crown”, an
arrangement of such items, gives us
flesh-and-blood history, not just the dry
bones of facts and dates. So often at
school, children are taught historical
facts as though they were axioms of
geometry. How different is Jane Austen’s
approach to her thumbnail “History of
England’, spoken by Noella Masson!
She deals roundly with the monarchs of
England, heaping her strongest abuse
on the head of Good Queen Bess.
It is a pity that the lively .realism of
this programme is contradicted by stiff
and self-conscious presentation. Kathleen
McCormack’s singing of the interspersed
period songs is, by contrast, refreshingly
natural. Brendan Dunne's contributions
have a quiet polish, but Ron Tunstall,
John Craig and Noella Masson at times
come dangerously close to recitation.
James Lang’s lively production of “An
Italian Straw Hat”, which was to have
been presented at the Paddington Arts
Festival, before it was unfortunately
washed out, is now appearing as part of
the North Side Arts Festival.
Light-hearted farce, as the programme
note points out, is not very fashionable
nowadays, at least on the stage. But
this century-old French farce has retained
its freshness and gaiety. The production
is greatly helped by Michael Coote’s
gay and elegant sets and Eileen Larkin’s
costumes.
Barry Jenkins plays the long-suffering
bridegroom, who is continually frus-
trated in his dogged efforts to find a
replica of the hat eaten by his horse,
while the whole wedding-party of dread-
ful relations follows in equally dogged
pursuit. Yvonne Matthew as Madame


Menzies service
(goes like clockwork!)
Prompt, courteous, efficient, Menzies
service never stops. But superb service
is only one of the things that makes your
stay at Menzies so enjoyable. Centrally
situated, with free in-hotel car-parking,
Menzies offers beautifully appointed
bedrooms with individually controlled
air-conditioning, genuine 24-hour room
service, and restaurants and bars to suit
every taste. Emperor Room Nightclub
features gourmet menu with floor show nightly
at 9.30.
Single rooms from 5 gns. Doubles from
,£6.15.0. (Special rates for children).
AL'/Klti
n rr-nn nn .nn .nn nr
b B“‘“Bb nr rr nr nr
nn nr nr nr nn bb
nr n r r r nn nn m
n n nn nn nr nn nn n n
ILEL-JLE--f!F BE 88.88... B£
nn.nß.nnnn nn nn nn
nn rn .nn nn nnrtn nn
rin nn nn nn nn nn nn
rrrouOEuain' ----- --
Menzies
Sydney
Hotel
mnn
14 CARRINGTON ST. TELEPHONE 2-0232 CABLES “mENZOTEL” SYDNEY.
MZI/32
For immediate reservations contact: VICTORIA— Menzies, MELBOURNE; Savoy Plaza, MELBOURNE;
Hotel Federal, MELBOURNE. QUEENSLAND - Lennons, BRISBANE; Lennons, TOOWOOMBA; Lennons. GOLD COAST.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— HoteI Australia. NORTH ADELAIDE. TASMANIA— Wrest Point Riviera, HOBART.
Beaujolais and David Goddard as
Achille, stand out among a large support-
ing cast. More discipline among the
minor characters and a faster pace would
tidy up the production.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
RECORDS
Personal
Statements
The Charlie Mingus Quintet plus Max
Roach. Vocalion. LAE-F591.
My Funny Valentine. Miles Davis in Con-
cert. CBS. Stereo 58P233203.
A lthough rapidly becoming better
known as an experimental composer,
Charlie Mingus is probably the greatest
pizzicato bass soloist the instrument has
had. He is another vital innovator who,
like Thelonious Monk, has respect for
the basic jazz language. Doubtless this is
the outcome of his years with veterans
like Ory, Armstrong and Norvo. His
latest album begins conventionally
enough, except for some tacked-on fog-
horn atmosphere, “A Foggy Day” is
almost Mainstream in its conception and
execution and has good solos by George
Barrow on tenor sax, Mai Waldron on
piano, Eddie Bert on trombone, and
Mingus himself.
The most striking number on the
record is “Haitian Fight Song”, concern-
ing which Mingus has said: “I can’t
play it right unless I’m thinking about
prejudice and hate and persecution.”
This and his other compositions, “Drums”
and “Love Chant”, have passages of
unity and beauty which are too often
destroyed by shock-tactic stridencies.
Another intense and complex musician
on the modern jazz scene is Miles Davis,
whose music has been described as that
of a man walking on eggshells. In this
album of four ballads and a bues, his
trumpet is as full of gloom-ridden anti-
melodic moanings, toneless mutterings
and ill-executed runs as ever. His
undeniably personal sound is expressive
only of despair and hate which, if under-
standable in an American Negro of
sensitivity, is consistently unpleasing to
my old Armstrong-trained ears. Davis,
of course, has played solos which are
both lyrical and powerful, but on most
of these tracks he seems half-hearted.
Herbie Hancock’s piano, especially on
“Stella by Starlight” and “All Blues”,
is crisp and lithe. While reflecting their
leader’s mood, both he and George Cole-
man on tenor sax are able to infuse
their playing with a little joy and melody,
and the drumming of 18-year-old Tony
Williams is a model of accuracy and
restraint.
TOM PICKERING


BOOKS
Fitzgerald’s Iron Strength
By VIVIAN SMITH
Forty Years’ Poems. Robert D. Fitzgerald.
Angus & Robertson. 355.
the last twenty-five years Robert
Fitzgerald has been established as
one of the most important Australian
poets of the century, and it is fitting that
a collected volume of his work should ap-
pear at last. “Forty Years’ Poems” is
virtually the collected poems of Robert
D. Fitzgerald. The author tells us that
this book contains all that he wishes to
preserve from his output; many poems
have been revised; poems published in
earlier books have been omitted, while
some previously unpublished youthful
work is included. It is a substantial vol-
ume, already larger than the collected
poems of, say, T. S. Eliot or Robert
Graves.
To read Fitzgerald again is to have
an early impression reinforced: fie
works best at the long stretch, when he
is fully engaged in a poem of length
either the narrative line of “Heems-
kerck Shoals” and “Fifth Day”, or the
long philosophical reflective sweep of
“Between Two Tides”. He works best
when he is handling blocks of stanzas,
w'hen he is dealing with incidents rather
than images, events rather than percep-
tions. He is much less successful in the
shorter lyric forms. His strength is set-
ting idea to words or exploring an idea
in action.
One reads through the whole of this
volume without finding a single line of
the texture of Hope’s “The guiding
spark of instinct winks and dies”, or
Judith Wright’s “Summer’s bubble
sound of sweet creek water”, or Sles-
sor’s “The sob and clubbing of the gun-
fire”. Fitzgerald seems indifferent to ver-
bal textures and tensions, to patterns
and shapes of sound. There is little
surface appeal in his work. So it is al-
ways the innate strength of the thing
said, rather than the way of saying it,
that strikes one in his poems; and rarely
the two together. Fitzgerald is neither
a visual nor an aural poet; there is little
sense of the immediate, of the local
and actual in his work in spite of cer-
tain titles and places in his shorter pieces.
It is no accident, then, that his finest
poems are set in the past where the im-
mediate detail is removed and he can
contemplate the forces of action with the
detachment he values so highly.
“Weekend Miracle”, however, is one
of Fitzgerald’s best single lyrics a
poem of praise of the forces of renewal
and recovery and it is striking, too,
for a freshness of image one doesn’t
usually associate with his v/ork:
There was nothing of this on Friday:
here and there
a blossom perhaps; but air was only
air,
not such immoderate honey as might
bring
disrepute even upon Spring
if there should stagger with arm linked
in his
a world which is not sick but fears
it is.
Health is not healing, scars grown
over, crust
upon the festered surface; it is out-
thrust
R. D. FITZGERALD
of renewal from within process of
growth
which aching and recovery both
are signs of, working through, like
this white patch
of weekend miracle on tea-tree thatch.
But as a rule Fitzgerald’s best lyrics
are those which pivot on an idea rather
than a sensory experience:
The fakir upon his bed of nails
is happier than is thought.
Toughness of hide can blunt more
ills
than could be dodged or fought:
the lesson is well taught.
An absence of any immediate sense
of vulnerability allied with a majestic
belief in the active striving of the
affirmative will perhaps account for the
sameness of contour in many of Fitz-
gerald’s shorter poems. His is a positive,
deliberated world with few of the shad-
ows and negations, that “fertilising pes-
simism” that a body of lyric poetry
needs if it is to clench into the emotions
and through them into the mind. It has
always seemed to me a characteristic
of Fitzgerald’s work that it does not re-
sist the intelligence successfully enough
(in the sense of Wallace Stevens’s
Adagio : “Poetry should resist the intel-
ligence almost successfully”), so that
it rarely takes one by surprise or fully
grasps and directs one’s imagination.
Fitzgerald first achieved prominence
in the late ’thirties, especially for “Essay
in Memory” (1937) and the earlier and
more successful “The Hidden Bole”
(1934). These poems will always have
an unchallengeable importance in the his-
tory of Australian poetry. But it seems
to me that Fitzgerald’s finest work has
been written since 1939 and that it is
“This Night’s Orbit” (1952) which re-
veals his real strengths and virtues.
With these poems one moves into a
clearer area of speech, out of the clut-
tered and over-involved structures of the
early, unconfident verses. It surely re-
mains Fitzgerald's greatest single book
for “Heemskerck Shoals”, “The Face
of the Waters”, one of Fitzgerald’s
freest moving lyrics; for “Fifth Day”, the
poem on Hastings’ trial which so fully
communicates its felt sense of the
human visage, where so much of Fitz-
gerald merely communicates concern
with the human will; and for the beauti-
fully shaped “Transaction”, with its
modulations of tone and skilful repe-
titions. This poem sums up a whole
aspect of Australian history. “This
Night’s Orbit” is the book of Fitzger-
ald’s maturity and mastery and one of
the very few books of poetry in Aus-
tralian literature as opposed to mere
collections of random pieces. One finds
throughout “This Night’s Orbit” that
forceful directness of utterance that
comes to fulfilment in “The Wind At
Your Door”, a poem that was so widely
and justly appreciated when it first ap-
peared six years ago.
“Between Two Tides” remains Fitz-
gerald’s most ambitious poem; Part 111,
“Tongan Tragedy”, is one of his most
fluent and graceful pieces of writing:
“Morning was a hand on the world’s
shoulder, a hand/shaking and waking.
Suddenly in the leaves/the excitement
of something which might have been
light or wind,/uncertain as to which
it was: light breathing like wind/upon
the tree-tops . .
But in spite of admiration for some
sections, one retains a nagging sense of
dissatisfaction with the poem as a whole.
The story is always at two removes from
the events; where there should be action
there is deliberation, discussion, dream.
Events never quite take on a life of their
own, and this may be where Fitz-
gerald’s enduring strength a formid-
able control and detachment works
against the real interests of the poem.
The ten years that have elapsed be-
tween this poem and “Southmost
Twelve” have seen an increasing growth


2S»S
Schimmelpenninch
Con Mil Amoves
(Actual size)
in tins of 10, 23/6.
Schimmelpenninck
CIGARS
Hollands finest
cigars now available
in Australia
Try Schimmelpenninck soon.
One cigar will tell you.
Schimmelpenninck cigars are imported for your
pleasure by Rothmans of Pall Mall (Aust .)
Limited sole Australian agent for
Schimmelpenninck—Sigarenfabrieken
V/H Geurts & Van Schuppen N.V. Wageningen
Holland.
RPMIIB
in the austerity of line of Fitzgerald’s
work. Poems expressing awareness of
increasing age and fears of death and
disease (such as the superb “Bog and
Candle”) show the pressure of the forces
contended with, and the nobility and the
stoic energy with which they are faced:
At the end of life paralysis or those
creeping teeth,
the crab at lung or liver or the rat in
the brain,
and flesh become limp rag, and sense
tap of a cane
if you would pray, brother, pray for
a clean death.
The shadows that one misses in the
early work are now filling in; the early
optimistic belief in vitalism has been tem-
pered and tested. “Southmost Twelve”
begins with a dedicatory verse entitled,
simply enough, “The Tempered Chill”
(“Discipline should fall now/on habits
hardening to flint”); and the poems
throughout have come even closer to
that flint-like firmness of edge that has
become Fitzgerald’s ideal (“Mind too
had best/acquire the nature of flint”).
The cogency and the unyielding con-
centration with which he expresses this
ideal will always command admiration.
“Purblind, Mating Weasels!”
By DAVID MARTIN
Luther. John Osborne: Faber & Faber.
6s. 6d.
Inadmissible Evidence. John Osborne.
Faber & Faber. 21s. 6d.
“npHE whole bloody island’s blocked
with those flatulent, purblind, mating
weasels. You knew who they are?
They’re the ones who go out on Bank
Holidays in the car! And have mascots
in the rear window.”
That’s the voice of Bill Maitland in
Osborne’s “Inadmissible, Evidence”, the
gripe of the over-sexed shyster who
cannot cope with the
humdrumness of a
world of which he is
a typically humdrum
particle. It could al-
most be the voice of
Jimmy Porter or
Archie Rice, people
who have done much
to keep a certain kind
of person from set-
tling in England; ap-
parently also the voice
of Staff Officer Redl
in Osborne’s latest
play, “A Patriot for
Me”, or even Luther’s,
ranting his holiness
and constipation. They are all damnably
depressing. Nevertheless they are the most
interesting characters of any British play-
wright since O’Casey, which is strange,
considering that Osborne is by no means
a natural dramatist. In most respects he
lacks the equipment of Beckett, Wesker
and Pinter, even of Eliot to whom he
owes more than meets the eye.
With Osborne the bad, drab world is
the very heart of the play, its idea, one
might say, if it didn’t sound so odd. This
should lead, theoretically, to his charac-
ters becoming merely shells, which, of
course, they protest has happened to
them. Devoid of causes and spiritual pro-
pellants, measuring themselves against the
JOHN OSBORNE
original horror and not the original sin of
their egos, they should be marionettes.
Which they are in a sense. But they do
not dangle from visible wires. The uni-
versal horror has entered them so deeply
that it acts like a perpetuum mobile to
keep them going effectively in the
dynamic of the theatre.
Who is Luther? A back-projected Mr
Maitland who responds to the Germany
of Emperor Charles as if it were the
England of Elizabeth 11. He hardly acts
at all: but he reacts to no mean purpose.
Nothing could be less
epic than this picture
of a sweating anal-
erotic, and as signifi-
cant as the marginal
treatment of the peas-
ant revolt are the
scenic directions
which demand that
people should be
painted on the back-
cloth. Luther may
have been a sick man
but he was one of the
greatest leaders of any
age, one who conduc-
ted an epochal dia-
logue with Christen-
dom. This disappears, and in its place we
have the most tremendous monologue
since, perhaps, Racine; except that Os-
borne does it on the colloquial, marvel-
lously invective and anti-heroic level. He
has taken everything out of Luther bar
his misery, and yet he nearly succeeds in
convincing us that from something so
small a great thing may emerge.
For all its superimposed color it is
simply a form of heightened radio
drama, but you will have to search far
to find one as good. It is not a tragedy
because there is only one force at play.
The will is not involved and this pro-
duces, as by default, a view of the
Reformation which has its authenticity.


LEARN TO WRITE
STORIES
THAT SELL!
It you have a flair tor writing, then a Stott
Literary Course will develop your talent. Stott
students are taught how to write stories that
sell and are advised by the College of the
names and addresses of reputable Literary
Agents in various countries who may be trusted
to handle students' MSS to the best advan-
tage. If YOU have a story to tell, learn how
to tell it through Stott's practical Home-Study
instruction.
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 383 George
Street, Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; 45
Gilles Street, Adelaide; 1130 Hay Streei, Perth.
POST THIS COUPON
TO STOTT'S: Please send me, free and without
obligation, full details of your Correspondence
Course/s in:
NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (8.2165)
No sales representative will call following your
inquiry.
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. D, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
We have come to think of Protestantism
as the creed of salvation through good
works; this Luther, struck in the bowels
by lack of grace, reminds us that it is
an inversion of the truth.
“Inadmissible Evidence” is, however,
.a better and a more complete play. The
reason is obvious: John Osborne knows
Bill Maitland better than he knows
Martin Luther and can dispense with
static pageantry. Large casts are his
undoing, as reports on “A Patriot for
Me” suggest again. You don’t need more
than a few people and a dull room to
show how deadly is the emptiness of the
soul in the empty world it creates.
Maitland, the manipulator of pretty girls
and petty cases, is the loneliest being the
stage has yet given us. His wife, his
daughter, his mistress, his two clerks
one by one they desert him as he deserts
himself, until he sits there in nameless
panic. He rails at the Bank Holiday
vacuity of an England whose abstracted
essence he is.
Once more it is not a tragedy, but
there is tragic pathos: Maitland deserves
our pity, for he is helpless. It is Mr
Osborne’s best contrived piece since
“Look Back in Anger”. It has, W'hich
“Luther” and “The Entertainer” have
not, a vertical, rather than a horizontal
development. Of all the women Bill
Maitland keeps ringing to get reassur-
ance of his own reality, one, Liz, tries
to stand by him, to be rejected with the
rest in his mounting self-rejection. This
brings into the story an element of
opposites, a vicarious alternative. Mait-
land is real. Whether or not we accept
the device—which to me seems redun-
dant —of the half-dream in which he
faces himself in an imaginary dock, he
is a sort of Everyman, but also a man
apart. Osborne is masterly in the way
he integrates symbol and actuality. On
three occasions in “Inadmissible
Evidence” Maitland conducts interviews
with people who are split-offs of Mait-
land and hold up to him his own failures.
It is a variant of Osborne's speciality,
his technique of repetition, but it
movingly demonstrates how many un-
suspected Maitlands walk our streets.
Reading Osborne’s plays one feels
that he is searching for variety to guard
against stereotyping his art, trying, as
it were,-to write away from himself. He
manages it by dint of adapting a dif-
ferent style each time, but in his case
the style is not the man. Since Jimmy
Porter, his central characters have be-
come not more but less complex and
also more desperate. This, curiously,
without growing into bores. Luther’s
anger is sicker than Jimmy’s, and in
‘‘A Patriot for Me” we are already
among homosexuals, which means
among protagonists whose “fate” is an
unlucky heredity, hence intrinsically no
more dramatic than a motor accident.
John Osborne, when he does not try
too hard not to be Osborne, compresses
into his creatures a great deal of the
Zeitgeist. They, including Luther, do
not seek God, they hardly seek each
other, and they go out where they came
in, which sometimes looks like defiance.
There will be another girl for Jimmy,
another pain in Luther's guts, another
phone not answering Bill Maitland, an-
other instalment of what Mary McCarthy
calls the mail-order history in “The
Book of Knowledge”. There it is
Osborne's figures do not grapple with
the artificial propositions that had life
in some other period but seem so un-
real in the contemporary theatre. May-
be he is not genuinely inventive, but he
does not make us feel that he offers us
inventions. He is, despite all appear-
ances, the least philosophical of play-
wrights and the most concentrated.
Subversion in Vietnam
By GEOFFREY FAIRBAIRN
Communism in North Vietnam. P. J.
Honey. Ampersand Paperback. Is. 6d.
/~|n the basis of participating in three
university “teach-ins”, two television
debates, and one scholarly conference on
Vietnam during the last fortnight, I have
formed two strong impressions relevant
to Patrick Honey’s book. First, all the
“teach-ins”, etc., have illuminated the
prodigious ignorance of things Viet-
namese existing in the Australian
academic world which saw fit to in-
struct the public on a subject on which
nearly all of its members could nipt he
bothered instructing themselves first.
There was surprise on people’s faces
when it was pointed out that Vietnam
was a guerrilla terrain that was 50 per
cent jungle or high-stand tree cover;
astonishment when it was pointed out
that Vietnam had since 1600 been united
only once, under the exceptional Gia-
long between 1802-1858. Patrick Honey
knows Vietnam so well that he felt
obliged to apologise for his Northern
accent when speaking to a Southern
gathering! But of course he was not
consulted, for reasons that will soon
become apparent.
Secondly, it has been clear throughout
that the one theme that the protesters
were not prepared to discuss in detail,
since it is central to the whole question,
was that of control from the North. Of
course it is much easier—and politically
more effective in an area of acute
factual ignorance —to rely upon pro-
Your Night-Glove
Your night-glove
Is pulled on my finger;
Your mouth
Tells me of danger;
In this Spring season
There is talk of a journey.
But this regressant poem,
Turning from the sea-faring weather
Of white-caps and stallions,
Denies me my masthead rights,
Changes rum to milk from sea-cow depths.
Enough.
I have travelled enough ways
To seek a careening cove,
To sleep in,
To smoke pipes in,
Supervising my crew.
There are no more doors in my ship;
Her spars grope, white in the skies,
Cleaving to the moon.
ALEX ABERNETHY


THE YEAR IN
AUSTRALIA
Encyclopaedia YEAR BOOK
1965
AUSTRALIAN EDITION
This Edition is entirely de-
voted to a record of events
for 1964 in the Common-
wealth, and is produced by
the staff of The Australian
Encyclopaedia. The binding,
stamping and printing are
excellent, and the contents
cover a wide-ranging field
of contemporary Australian
topics.
Among the many major
articles are those on The
National Trust Art
Papua & New Guinea
International Trade CSIRO
Sport Antarctica
National Development
Computers Aviation
Cities and Towns, etc.
The work is illustrated
throughout with colour plates,
maps, diagrams, photographs,
cartoons and graphs.
Copies of this Edition are
available to owners of The
Australian Encyclopaedia and
to readers of The Bulletin
on prepaid orders at the
special concession pr.ce of
only £2.18.0 including post*
age. (List price £4.12.6)
The Grolier Society
of Australia Pty. Ltd.
P.O. Box 406, NTH. SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
Please send me copies
of Encyclopaedia Year Book
1965 Australian Edition.
I will remit as follows:
j—| Herewith remittance of
I I £2.18.0 per copy post-
age paid.
I —| Please forward 30 day
i | statement at £3.2.6 per
copy (includes postage)
NAME
STREET
CITY/TOWN
STATE
nunciamentos from Dr Cairns’s maquis"
HQ in Punt Road, South Yarra, to the
effect that Communists simply never, by
definition, invade any country.
Such people will doubtless be unim-
pressed by the argument of Patrick
Honey, despite the fact that he is the
greatest authority on North Vietnam in
the English-speaking world. Neverthe-
less, his argument should be carefully
considered by anyone remaining in doubt
about the truth of the matter.
He begins by pointing out that in
effect there has been only one Com-
munist Party, the Communist Party
of Indo-China, directing operations
throughout the whole of Vietnam, Laos,
and Cambodia since its foundation in
1930. For tactical reasons only, the
ICP was formally dissolved in February,
1945, “in order to avoid causing offence
to the susceptibilities of Laotian and
Cambodian nationalists engaged in fight-
ing against the French”. (This statement
is based on a captured document.) It
might be added also that the loudly
announced decision enabled Ho Chi-
minh for a long time to bamboozle
Americans by talking in terms of the
American, not the Soviet, Revolution
while controlling the Vietminh “national-
ist” front.
Mr Honey has no doubt about what
has been happening in South Vietnam.
“At the present time (1963) the Com-
munists are masters of the North only,
but they are engaged in a war of sub-
version aimed at bringing South Viet-
nam under their control and are pro-
viding arms, men and political direction
to the Laotian Communists in the
Pathet Lao.” When discussing the
Central Committee in the North, he
writes: “The identity of additional
Central Committee members and even
their very existence were kept secret
because these men are today directing
the Vietcong insurgents in South Viet-
nam, and the DRV (Northern) leader-
ship has repeatedly claimed that North
Vietnam has no connection with the war
in the South.” Nevertheless, he supplies
four names which were inadvertently
dropped by a member of the North’s
delegation to Geneva in 1962.
Moreover, Honey does something that
has seldom adequately been done else-
where: he spells out in detail (Communist
North Vietnamese detail) the motive for
the North’s assault on the South; the
failure there, as everywhere else in the
Communist world, of collectivised agri-
culture; and the need for rice from the
South which by 1961 was an exporter
of rice evidence indicative of some-
thing less than a complete breakdown of
the Diem regime’s economic functioning
at that time! This book is indispensable
reading.
The Hunchback’s Story
By NANCY KEESING
Jonah. Louis Stone. Angus and Robertson.
275. 6d.
“Tonah”, republished in a good, sightly
** hardback, has a provocative but also
most informative introduction by Ronald
McCuaig. I never supposed McCuaig
harbored notions of the nature of poetry
so much at variance with my own
until I read this essay, but with his high
praise of “Jonah” I can only agree, and
for his account of Stone he must be
thanked.
“Jonah's” real province is the success
story. Stone describes the ruthless rise to
fortune of a bitter, suspicious, talented,
hunchbacked ex-street arab “thrown out
on the streets when a child by his parents
. . . with as little emotion as they would
have tossed an empty can out of doors”.
The period being approximately turn of
the century, he is not rescued by the
Child Welfare Department, but is be-
friended and taught a trade by a kindly
old German bootmaker. This benefactor
is Jonah’s first victim in his clamber to
the top.
Jonah’s foil is Chook, co-larrikin as the
novel opens and destined to be a far
more balanced (and mediocre) citizen,
because Chook comes from a background
of love as opposed to Jonah's history of
rejection. Chook achieves love Jonah
its tragic and tawdry travesty. Both
young men, though barely educated, are
highly intelligent. Their “chorus” is Mrs
Yabsley, also intelligent and in her
place and generation wise, for all she
is a total illiterate. Mrs Yabsley’s
character is a rich compound of good
sense, indomitable energy and earthy
wit. Born somewhere near Waterloo
when that near-Sydney area was still
mostly paddock, she has seen its close
settlement by the small, mean streets and
houses of the poor. This fat, salty old
washerwoman orders the lives of her
devotees like any earth mother. She
engineered Jonah’s marriage to her
daughter Ada, and surprisingly provided
the cash to give him his start in life.
Stone’s skill is not only in writing his
book well and with great gusto and close
observation but in presenting every side
of the story with realism and compassion,
tenderness and objectivity.
Sun And Moon
After that tired hour, when
With the stirring of loving after love
The moon is embraced by the false dawn,
Then there comes that slow dark time
When the passion of light is drained,
And the waking birds are waiting
Until the true red lire thrusts high
And soon the round-backed moon
Is lost in the blue sky,
Like one broken wave in a calm sea.
No one noticed, later, what time the moon
had set
Behind the red flowering gumtree full of
bees.
GEOFFREY DUTTON


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
A Big Spender Competes
TNVESTORS seeking a lead from the Budget, after expressing relief that company
A tax was not raised, must consider the implications of Government expenditure
this year in competition for men and materials. The big defence and expansionary
programme will not involve a deficit, as some expected, but it nevertheless will place
a strain on resources.
The most obvious effect is that com-
panies may experience some difficulty
in obtaining funds to finance their in-
dividual expansion.
Already there is a long string of new
capital issues for investors to digest,
headed by the recent one-for-seven issue
of £l6m. by BHP, followed by Wool-
worths £6m. and CSR £sm.
The Federal Government faces a
heavy loan-raising campaign, with over-
seas sources like New York and London
restricted from participating because of
recent capital restraints.
The banks, in turn, are experiencing a
heavy drain on their liquid resources —-
and this pressure will increase. As a
result, more companies are likely to turn
to shareholders for additional finance.
With increased capital raisings and a
tendency for costs to rise, the earning
rates of many companies could be
trimmed. So the first flush of enthusiasm
over the lack of direct taxing must be
tempered by the Government’s need for
heavy fund-raising. This implies that
interest rates will remain high for the
time being, making for expensive
borrowing.
The petrol tax, raising the retail price
by 3d. per gallon, will affect transport
and trucking companies unless they can
pass it on. Transport costs could rise
generally, as freight rates also have been
going up. The consumer will find this
should filter through to him! the same
as the more obvious slug on cigarettes,
tobacco, spirits and beer.
Beer and cigarette producers can
expect some initial public reaction to
higher retail prices, though past ex-
perience shows that this blows over
fairly quickly. In cigarettes, at least,
the recent cut-rate price wars had
knocked more than 3d. off the price
of a packet of 20 cigarettes. The new
tax adds it on again.
Motor vehicle distributors should be
pleased, because the predicted increase
in sales tax did not eventuate.
Petrol distributors could find the
going even more competitive, remem-
bering that they still must face up to
the decisions of the Tariff Board on the
domestic price for Australian oil.
The general conclusion among Aus-
tralian manufacturers is that the Budget
put no direct tax obstacles in their way.
Their main preoccupation now should be
in pruning costs and girding their loins
for a more competitive year in fund
raising.
Companies with strong earnings, which
obviously do not need to raise new
finance, are the ones which should enjoy
a good year throughout 1965-66. This
goes against the accepted attitude on
growth, but such companies can afford
to raise cheaper money in other years.
The No. 2 Reserve
TAr Coombs does not have to play
second fiddle very often. His timing
of the Reserve Bank’s annual report,
however, left it to be somewhat over-
shadowed by the Budget. Connoisseurs
of financial expertise and exposition
should need no telling, though, to give
the report their attention as soon as
possible.
Indeed, at the present stance of the
DR H. C. COOMBS
Australian economy and with what is
now generally admitted to be a tolerably
expansive budgetary situation, the Re-
serve’s deployment of its monetary
powers assumes for 1965-66 much the
same measure of importance it cer-
tainly possessed during the year just past.
A tactful pat on the back for the 1964-65
performance may even have been justi-
fied. Dr Coombs avoids this in the full
awareness of the need for a continuing
process.
The report’s message must inevitably
be read both in the light of the Budget’s
British and American Share Markets
apparently improving external
trade statistics were not allowed to
exercise their cheering influence for very
long on either the London or New York
share markets. To put it at the most
prosaic, other factors have intervened.
The net effect is a mood of uncertainly
in both places, though America's un-
doubtedly well-founded economic situation
should be able to pull Wall Street round,
and up, far sooner than the UK economy
can re-invigorate London.
For there the tentacles of the earlier
imposed credit squeeze are becoming
more and more visible. They issued last
week in two particularly obvious and
adverse expressions: short-time work at
Hoovers and the same (a four-day week)
for 10,000 employees at Fords. Capping it
all, the unemployment figures- were
already higher.
The latest quarterly review from the
National Institute of Economic and Social
Research stated the British position fairly
bluntly. Over the short term, sterling
should survive its special storm (and the
seasonal pressures may begin soon), but
the survival "would be at the expense of
stagnation of output and unemployment of
around the half million mark".
Markets could hardly fail to react quite
heavily, so Thursday saw the worst single
day's fall of the industrials index in four
months. It is, fortunately, not possible to
speak of a selling wave; returning buyers,
though, have just frozen up.
Equities naturally get penalised most of
all. The week's 11 points index fall
means that price declines have been wide
and often large. Radio, appliance, cai
and retail shares show the biggest losses,
while prominent stocks like ICI, EMI,
BMC and Elliott Automation are not
proving immune.
In the search for safety, gilt-edged were
able to repeat their recent steady demand.
Golds also show a tendency to rise on
the uncertainty.
Wall Street closed its week with some
clear profit-taking as the market inclined
to drift lower. Overall volumes were
reasonably stable on the previous week.
However, the good second-liners then in
demand lost their punch. Leaders were
not given much prominence.
Analysts still talk of the fundamental
soundness- and the- repetition of merely
technical corrections. They too, though,
have started to discern inflationary signs
within the US economy, to be productive
of a price boost during the coming
months.
A few sources are even referring to
the classic patterns of wartime prosperity.


overall economic intention and estima-
tion of Australia’s current situation. Mr
Holt, of course, had few doubts here:
“This year the predominant fact is that
the Australian economy is already run-
ning at full pitch. It is a year in which,
for example, we shall see an enlarged
demand for resources on the part of
several great mineral projects . . .
Demand has risen strongly and seems
likely to continue to rise. Meanwhile,
as I have said, we confront an excep-
tionally large increase in Commonwealth
expenditure and, against this, a sub-
stantially smaller increase in revenues
and other receipts.” '
Dr Coombs would hardly dissent from
that summary. He actually begins his
survey by remarking how, throughout
1964- “the Australian economy was
exposed to considerable strain as all
types of domestic spending increased
strongly”. After noting the parallel in-
fluences of high expenditure upon the
balance of payments and a consequent
drawing upon overseas balances, the
Governor mentions the small amount of
slack left in the economy as 1964-65
started.
In the event, the Reserve’s policy,
directed largely at demand, aimed “to
slow down the transfer of funds to
financial intermediaries and final users;
to maintain the strong preference
throughout the community for liquid
and secure assets; to restrain the growth
of bank lending; and, by making money
more costly, to encourage the postpone-
ment of expenditure”.
Dr Coombs sums it all up quite happily
by claiming that no serious boom
developed and (an old hobby-horse this)
neither was there any general increases
in asset values. On the other hand, the
balance- of payments reached a position
worse than general expectations.
The stage is thus set: “As we entered
1965- it seemed that some of the
strains of the previous year could well
continue.” The big developmental pro-
jects will eventually affect the balance
of payments by increasing exports or
reducing imports. Meantime it behoves
us to be careful “prospects for the
next few years might give more cause
for concern” and in particular to
notice world-wide deflationary tenden-
cies. There seems little hope that dis-
cussions to increase international liquidity
will get very far very quickly.
“In any case, it would seem prudent
to exercise reasonable economy in our
use of overseas funds. One implication
is that if we are to maintain satisfactory
growth of output and real incomes, we
will have to increase our rates of
domestic saving ... It could be even
more important in the future to concen-
trate on measures which will promote
efficiency, and to avoid protecting the
inefficient.”
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
An Excellent Budget
For Business
Toorak before the Trades Hall
HTHE starkest aspect of last week’s Budget was that defence takes only £81.4 million,
or 28] p.c., of the massive £275 million increase in expenditure. The public should
put an exacting glance on where the other £194 million is going. Doubtless all of it
can be justified on some national ground or other. Much of it is the legacy of previous
political decisions and pressures on the Government for assistance, or stems from
the inexorable growth of bureaucracy in a rapidly expanding economy.
But even if only because defence may
well cost more than budgeted for (the
national service call-up, for instance, was
increased the day after the Budget), it
seems to me that the Treasury’s pruning
knife has not cut sharply enough on the
estimates submitted by many depart-
ments.
I cannot go into much detail on this
here. But take one example—the need
in future to cast a very scrupulous eye
over new proposals for expenditure
stares out from the multitudinous com-
mitments shown in the £40.8 million
addition (making a total of £106.2 mil-
lion) to what is called “other special
appropriations”. About half (£21.5 mil-
lion) of this increase is for Treasury
commitments such as the introduction
of decimal currency (£l5 million), the
subsidisation of petrol prices in country
areas (£4.2 million), higher payments to
the International Development Associa-
tion (£3.3 million), increased assistance
for the gold industry (£310,000) and
higher contributions to the superannua-
tion fund (£2.3 million). In all, the
Treasury will get £47.2 million of the
SIR ROLAND WILSON
Secretary to the Treasury
total £106.2 million for “other special
appropriations”.
Again, of the £40.8 million increase
in these appropriations, £14.7 million is
for primary industry, whose total share
goes up to £30.5 million and is thus
almost a doubling on the year. What is
this for? Almost all of it is for wheat
stabilisation, wool promotion, dried fruits
and the poultry industry. It can only be
wondered how big the increase will be
under Jhis head should wool marketing
be added to the bill next year. See
what we mean in demanding that the
reserve-price proposal be scrutinised,
inter alia, for the claim it is likely to
make on Government funds!
In erring on the cautious side by
dampening demand, the Budget un-
doubtedly struck the right economic note.
This is at least consistent with the
Treasury's thinking in recent months, as
revealed in the Economic Survey, and
the Government’s submission at the
Arbitration Commission. I must say at
once, however, that if the Budget may
well be technically appropriate to the
economic situation in prospect as seen
by the Treasury, it looks far from ap-
propriate to the current delicate climate
of industrial relations. There lies its
great weakness. It is one thing to do
the right thing for the business world.
It is quite another to have put labor
offside by biasing the alternative stric-
tures so strongly against wage-earners.
This may prove to have been very short-
sighted.
It is economically acceptable that
efforts to cut back demand to ease
pressures on resources and the balance
of payments must primarily be directed
to the mass of consumers. Yet Mr Holt
seems very much to be looking after
his own in neglecting, say, to put the
screw on unearned incomes and luxury
consumption. The Budget will take
some PR tricks in Toorak but none at
the Trades Hall. The balance remains
much the same as Rousseau saw it in
his “Social Contract”.
Naturally the business world is bucked
that it has not been singled out for


harder treatment. By inference this
should at least underpin its confidence
and even boost it. That will be good for
employment and investment. The latter
has been a bit short of hostages lately
so far as this is reflected in share prices,
but not in fixed investment which has
been highly buoyant over the country
as a whole.
It would have been reasonable, per-
haps, for the Treasurer to have had an-
other look to examine whether, in the
light of the further increases in public
investment budgeted for, the economy
could, pricewise, tolerate the boost to
private investment which the Budget
seems to encourage. Equally, the ad-
ditional confidence the Budget will
impart to business would seem to be
inviting increased competition in the
private sector for labor supplies. Rather
surprisingly, Mr Holt expects labor
supply to rise by as much as 31 p.c. this
year, w'hich is only a fraction less than
last year’s 4 p.c.
Ourely any country which can increase
its work force by 34 p.c. in any one
year is not doing all that badly, par-
ticularly— and this is equally or even
more important—if it can find the jobs
to employ the workers. The trouble this
year may not. therefore, be so much a
shortage of new labor as maintaining
industrial peace, a matter which the
Budget would seem to leave out of
calculations.
It was also rather surprising to find
that the Treasury is expecting 1965-66
imports to be even higher than the
massive total reached last year. In the
notes to the Budget speech we find the
statement that “imports are expected to
increase less rapidly than they did in
1964-65”, w'hich by implication (con-
firmed by the estimated rise in Customs
revenue, not taking in the Budget’s new
proposals) means that imports could
(unless officially restricted there was
no hint in the Budget that they would
be) rise substantially. When Mr Holt
said in his speech that “some falling
back in imports would be w'elcome”, he
was, presumably, thinking only of
balance-of-payments reasons and not
(sic) that lower imports would reduce
the level of resources available to the
economy (the Budget’s general theme
being that resources would he strained to
the limit).
So we come to what is probably the
crux of the Budget—that all-too-familiar
dilemma of Australian Treasurers: to
yvhat degree the internal economy must
be conditioned in the light of balance-of-
payments possibilities. Frankly, if im-
ports are to run up a higher total this
year than last, serious doubts must be
admitted whether the dampening of
demand to be effected through the taxa-
tion increases will be adequate to the
conditioning task required. This is no
more than a strong feeling, but with
world commodity markets flagging and
capital inflow of dubious volume (as
fully recognised by the Treasurer in his
speech) I would have erred even more
on the side of caution than the Budget
does. Despite a steadier appearance last
week, reserves have recently been
tumbling faster than at any time since
January and soon it is distinctly likely
that recent levels of imports will become
untenable.
Naturally, the Treasurer eschewed
giving the impression that his Budget
proposals would cut back demand to an
extent that would threaten full employ-
ment or open up areas of under-employ-
ment in consumption goods industries,
even in the interests of freeing more
labor for defence. But turning to the
somewhat mysterious measure of the
impact of the Budget on the economy
I refer of course to the net increase of
indebtedness to be incurred by the
Commonwealth to the rest of the
economy in national account terms (see
The Bulletin, August 7) — we find that
this is dowrn to £54 million compared
w'ith a revised figure of £B6 million for
1964-65 and an also revised £l9l million
for 1963-64.
As I have said before, this way of
looking at the Budget out-turn is not
for ordinary mortals, though it will be
appreciated that w'ithout the increases
in taxation this year the net increase in
indebtedness would (as estimated) have
been £ 1 26 million, which gives a good
idea of the impact of the Budget pro-
posals.
This shows that the Treasury is clearly
working towards a neutral position, but
still on the stimulus side. How can the
massive increase of £275 million in
Government expenditure this year be
otherwise construed? It must be recog-
nised, though, that, as in the case of the
straight Budget layout which provides
for a cash surplus of £l9 million (roughly
the same as actually achieved in 1964-
65), the figures in national accounting
terms contain, on the Treasurer’s own
admission, much sheer guesswork un-
worthy even of the tag of estimation.
At any rate, using a more familiar
guide-post, it seems to me that at least
the cash surplus of the Commonwealth
Government this year could work out
higher than estimated in the Budget.
For one thing, on the face of it the
Treasurer looks to have deliberately
underestimated the net harvest from the
loan market this year. It is conceivable,
of course, that he has done this to
provide for a greater amount of redemp-
tions than he has allowed for in his
rough estimates of these in the Budget.
He has to remember that last year’s
redemptions were particularly high and
that this year a record amount of
maturities have to be met. He can only
hope that at least the cash tranches of
his future loans this year turn out as
well as the August loan, which was sub-
stantially oversubscribed (the result of
the conversion leg is still to come).
CROESUS
Deceptive Dog Days
Sterling fights for its life
VIfORKING through the dog days of August and early September in Britain, when
the elite were away in the south of France or on the grouse moors, Parliament
in recess and the city as quiet as the grave, I always had an uneasy feeling that
something dramatic might burst on the empty scene at any moment. This was the
season when, with harvests in and Cowes week over, pent-up European rivalries could
be given their head and pressures on currencies push them over the hill.
In a word the deceptive quiet of the
scene masks terrors like nascent wars
and devaluations, and, as it often did
over the years when autumn leaves began
to fall, the worst can happen to set the
world stage anew for winter and times
beyond. September 3, 1939, and 10 years
later, September 17, 1949, are dates that
rush vividly to mind.
For almost a year now sterling has
been in the hot seat of the world cur-
rencies, a position it took over from the
dollar last year (not that the dollar has
been all that strong this year or the drain
of gold from Fort Knox stopped). It has
been touch and go since Labor took over
the Treasury benches last October
whether sterling would be devalued. But
successive bear raids on the pound have
been beaten off and the Government, as
it was bound to, has been adamant in
a series of denials that the currency
would be devalued, moving heaven and
earth to convince the Continental bears
of sterling that it was putting its econo-
mic house in order to back its determina-
tion to avert the evil day.
To have carried the day against the
bears to this stage, the Chancellor of the
Exchequer possibly owes his main debt
(in more ways than one) to the good
offices of the central bankers, the “Paris


IN MELBOURNE
smart people stay at the
RESS ORIENTAL HOTEL
at the Paris end of Collins Street.
Right in the heart of busi-
ness, entertainment, theatres
and shopping centre.
100 rooms—newly decor-
ated, 24 hour room service.
New air-conditioned res-
taurants, the Rib Room, for
delicious aged beef and steaks;
the Harlequin Room for the
young at heart.
Hotel shops include chem-
ist, florist, boutique—and a
step away is the high fashion
world of Collins Street.
Car parking at the hotel.
Ask about our Family
Booking Plan (children free).
For reservations, ring Mel-
bourne 636031; Sydney
298392, your Airline or
Travel Agent.
HESS ORIENTAL
MELBOURNE
SCHOLARSHIP AWARDS
AT
CRANBROOK SCHOOL
An Independent Church of England School
FULL DAY AND BOARDER
SCHOLARSHIPS WILL BE
AWARDED TO SUITABLE
APPLICANTS ON FRIDAY,
OCTOBER 29, 1965
A number of Exhibitions and Bursaries are
also to be awarded.
Details from the Registrar, Cranbrook School,
Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill. 36-1110.
JAMES CALLAGHAN
Club” as it is colloquially called, and the
weighty support of the US Government,
which is anxious as any to prevent not
only a devaluation of sterling but also
the scramble towards new parities among
other currencies, even possibly its own,
which would be sparked off by that event.
It is still touch and go for sterling in
the current deceptive quiet of the London
scene. As the “Investors’ Chronicle”,
Britain's leading investment weekly and
not one prone to be alarmist, stated last
week, “Sterling is struggling for its life
as an international currency.” But is it
over the worst? The paper goes on to
point out that the evidence of bumper
exports in July (albeit accompanied by a
disturbing further increase in imports),
and also “of yet more support from the
USA”, have improved the chances of
riding out the pressures. But it admits
that these pressures in the foreign ex-
change markets still remain.
The latest suggestion from London is
that American support for the pound will
not be limited to the sums now in sight
or under pledge from that quarter; that is,
the uncommitted part of the 500 million
dollar currency swap with the Federal
Reserve and a 250 m. dollar line of credit
from the Export Import Bank. These
sums do not include reserves in the
sterling area dollar pool, which, accord-
ing to official figures, fell by £stgso
million to £stg 947 million in July (“The
Economist” puts the real loss as high as
140 million dollars). Nor do they in-
clude an estimated 1250 million dollars
to 1500 million dollars’ worth of dollar
stocks owned by Britain. Some of these
have already been put into liquid form,
ready to back the pound's defences but
not yet put into the shop window of
official reserves.
Three months ago, “The Economist”
estimated that the total dollar pow'er
available was something like 5000 million
dollars; on its latest calculations the total
would now be about 200 million dollars
less than that. So obviously, if the US
has further support in mind, this would
be a most important factor in assessing
devaluation possibilities.
The coming few weeks will be critical
because, as I have held all along, the UK
payments position on current account is
bound to be put under severe strain in
this period because payments for imports
will be seasonally at their peak. Certainly,
if the August export figures continue
their record July showing, it will give the
bears of sterling something to think seri-
ously about. However, I would not
expect any great abatement in the level
of imports.
Discounting an expected seasonal rise,
this is basically because the UK Govern-
ment doesn't seem to have done enough
yet to cut back internal demand suffi-
ciently to make the necessary impact on
imports and this is still being reflected in
the import figures. This is not to say that
the Government’s measures are not
having some success in cutting back
demand. The “Investor’s Chronicle”, for
instance, says there is some evidence that
“the bared teeth are beginning to bite”.
Tn its turn “The Economist” comments
A laconically that, since most of the
world’s disposable sterling has already
been sold, the mobilised reserves should
be adequate defence. It might be added
to this that faithful sterling friends who
keep their overseas currency reserves in
sterling—Australia is one of these—have
kept faith all along and unlike some for-
eign countries, say France, they forbear
to convert their reserves into gold or
other currencies except in the normal
course of business. They have done so
ever since the war.
Countries like Australia, with massive
sterling balances, would of course be the
losers if devaluation results. Though in
our case a big proportion of our external
transactions are with sterling area coun-
tries, most of which would follow the
pound down (in 1949 Pakistan was the
only one not immediately' to follow but
did ultimately), the proportion has been
greatly reduced in recent years following
the reorientation of much of our trade
towards non-sterling area countries, such
as the United States and Japan (last year
these two countries alone accounted for
about a third of Australian imports,
whereas in the year of the 1949 devalua-
tion together they contributed only about
10 p.c.). In the light of this, as well as
for other reasons, the Federal Govern-
ment’s problem whether to follow ster-
ling in the event of its devaluation is a
vastly more vexed one than when Mr
Chifley took the plunge.
Whatever they may have in mind if
the worst befalls sterling, sterling area
countries are not likely to desert the ship
in the immediate future. True, some of
the fringe sterling countries like Burma
and Kuwait are believed to have made
sterling-gold switches this year, but most
of them have stuck fast to their official
holdings which amount to around
£stglBoom. They may not have too long
to wait for the crisis to be resolved one
way or the other. It could well be over
within three months.


NEWINGTON COLLEGE
STANMORE (and KILLARA)
The Methodist G.P.S. founded in 1863
for day and hoarding students
1. SCHOLARSHIPS.
There are a number of open scholarships in general for boys entering First
Year Secondary. (Boys who are under 13 on 31st December, 1965, are eligible.)
EXAMINATION (set by the Australian Council for Educational Research) will
be held on SATURDAY, 25th SEPTEMBER, 1965, at 9 a.m.
APPLICATIONS CLOSE on TUESDAY, 31st AUGUST, 1965.
2. 1966 LEAVING CERTIFICATE EXAMINATION for repeat
candidates.
A few places only will be available to suitable candidates (especially boys
aiming at obtaining a Commonwealth Scholarship) in the classes preparing for
this examination.
3. 1966 FORM V (WYNDHAM PLAN).
A few places for boys of merit proceeding to matriculation will be available in
1966 and in future years. But booking well ahead is essential.
4. BLOCK.
A new Science Block, including advanced laboratories for top students, will be
opened in February, 1966.
*LIBRARY.
A new Library provides special facilities for sth and 6th Year studies.
5. PREPARATORY SCHOOLS.
(a) At Stanmore (Wyvern House);
(b) At Killara.
Special Policies in Curriculum development.
*For information on any of the above, write to the undersigned.
D. A. TRATHEN,
Headmaster.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Selling Wheat to Russia
Canada first... then Australia
11/ITH any sort of luck at alt Australia should be able to make another good sale
" of wheat to the Soviet Union inside six months. Luck enters into this because
of two things. We do not really know how good the harvest will be and it could be
pretty bad. We do not know the Soviet reaction to our participation in Vietnam.
They, along with Red China, could turn elsewhere.
We do know, for sure, that Russia
needs wheat badly and we are reason-
ably sure that China will need to import
again. But Canada has a. good harvest
on the way; Canada’s total force in
Vietnam amounts to a mere half-dozen
or so observers. Argentina also, after
years of poor harvests, is back in the
picture as a potential exporter of wheat.
The Vietnam influence is, in the trade
sense, an unknown quantity. It is just
possible that it may have no bearing at
all on Chinese or Russian buying
practice. Ignoring the weaponry and
tactics involved, the Vietnam war might
possibly be rationalised as something
akin to 17th and 18th-century tests of
strength between powers.
During 100 years of war a good deal
of trade went on between both sides,
even when the armies and navies were
engaged in conflict. In periods of calm,
with war still officially on but the forces
inactive, trade was considerable. This
is not necessarily helpful when applied
to Vietnam.
The theory put up by Dr Jim Cairns,
and others, that China is not really
involved at all is such utter rubbish that
it is a wonder men of intelligence sub-
scribe to it, even with a political purpose
in mind. This writer receives regularly
from Peking sheafs of propaganda
material which glorify “the common
stand of the united peoples of the re-
publics of North Vietnam, South Viet-
nam and China against the US im-
perialists, etc., etc.”.
If Dr Cairns is not on the free list,
then he should drop Peking (Box 399)
a line. It helps keep one informed.
University students who are mixed up
about Vietnam might well do likewise.
Yet students, who are young enough
to expect that all things must be pre-
sented in clear colors of black and
white, should endeavor to look beyond
the seeming paradox. It could be good
business for China to buy more wheat
from us and it could be good
business for us to sell wheat to them.
They need funds from their exports of
oils and other goods to buy the technical
equipment necessary for their industrial
expansion. We need money to buy
Mirages, ground-to-air missiles, and,
eventually, nuclear weapons of our own
(probably).
The Russians have already discovered
the need for compromise. China, if US
power can hold her off long enough,
will inevitably come to the same con-
clusion. The recent Russian compromise
on private enterprise in agriculture is an
event of great importance and is tied in
with Soviet wheat needs.
The harvest will be poor this year,
according to the official Moscow sources.
The weather gets the blame, officially
—too much rain in the Ukraine and too
little in the virgin lands. This explana-
tion reminds one of Khrushchev’s quips.
It is too glib to be taken seriously.
Inefficiency on the collective farms
is the more likely reason. It is troubling
Soviet farm officials so much that it
has now been proposed that a limited
form of private ownership be permitted.
The vast collective farms would be
broken up into relatively small holdings,
to be owned and worked by farmers
with a minimum of outside interference.
The system, says Zhulin in “Komso-
molskaya Pravda”, would eliminate the
indifference, conflict of interests and
managerial difficulties involved in the
operation of vast, unwieldy farm estates.
“What happens in State farms if the
chairman or agronomist leaves?” he
asks. “The land becomes grown with
weeds, pests settle down and sand covers
it. When machinery arrives it is attached
to a section or brigade or transferred
from one mechanic to another or remains
unattended; spare parts are unavailable
and the machinery is scrapped.”
He says all these defects will be
avoided if the property is entrusted to
specific people; to a group of men “who
have the right of ownership exercised on
behalf of the nation. The link will be-
come a legally independent, self-reliant
entity with appropriate rights and obliga-
tions, with full material responsibility for
expenditures which are to be paid to
production and the produce being
assessed according to costs. Profitability,
and not fulfilment of a plan imposed
from outside, will be the criterion of
success”.
This is getting into the realm of theory
also, and it does not prove that Russia
will again be a buyer of Australian
wheat. Still less does it prove that China


n
y
m
-- ~j
What makes Matson the
First Choice of Discriminating
Travellers to America?
./he answer: No other ships are exclusively First Class. It is reflected in our personalized services. The
anticipation of your every wish is a precept and our staff is trained to think in terms of your individual
tastes. /Matson’s elegance has a special, American quality. The S.S. MARIPOSA and MONTEREY
accommodate just enough guests to favour easy companionship, yet retain space for privacy. Shipboard
appointments are unobtrusively luxurious. Public rooms embody the artistry of prominent designers. The
aura of South Seas openness is especially appealing. These liners completely air-conditioned and gyro-
stabilised are especially' designed for this tropic route. /Staterooms each with private facilities are
unusually spacious. Tastefully furnished and decorated, they provide charming, gracious living. Cuisine is
lavish, epicurean. Meals are interspersed with snacks and buffets. Room service is available at any hour.
The lineis wine cellais are tended as carefully as any on shore. Ais unique as Matson’s ships are the
enchanting ports of call: Noumea, Suva, Niuafo’ou (Tin Can Island), Pago Pago, Honolulu (almost two full
cla\s heie. a paiadise for fun-lover, sight-seer or ardent shopper) and San Francisco. Return departure can
be made from either San Francisco or Los Angeles, then via Bora Bora, Tahiti and Rarotonga to Auckland
and Sydney. A Matson voyage, featuring American service, cuisine and exquisite comforts, is designed and
pi iced to please demanding travellers accustomed to the finest. Isn’t it time for you to enjoy this
incompaiable expeiience? Be sure to book early. See your travel agent soon, or contact us. 50 Young
Street, Sydney, Phone 27 4272; 454 Collins Street, Melbourne, Phone 67 7237.
!" Aus ! ra,ia Mat f° n se ™ es as passenger agent for three major American steamship lines; Moore-McCormack. American Exoort-
fcbrandtsen and United States Lines. '
fiffit- s^^*’
SF36BS


tli m
' ' :
•\ r
M' : ■
mmm
a>-
*SS»SSS<S«««iS!
Jt'W
nt*;**
I «
»
•SS:
i
#
m
Electronic Data Processing Branch of the Queensland Treasury Department
TAKE YOUR CUE FROM QUEENSLANO
QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT, FIRST IN AUSTRALIA TO INSTALL AN ICT SERIES 1900 COMPUTER
The ICT SERIES 1900 Computer installed by the Queensland Treasury Department will process:
• Queensland’s Public Service payroll (approxi-
mately 30,000 employees paid fortnightly).
• Governmental accounts data, produce 1,000,000
cheques a year, post expenditure and receipts to
vote heads and print budgetary control reports.
0 Annual indices for over 70,000 Births, Deaths
and Marriage Registrations each year.
• Electoral roll data for 800,000 electors.
• Technical College and Apprenticeship Examina-
tions and Junior Public Examinations (including
notification, to candidates, processing of marks
and analyses of results for about 27,000 candi-
dates a year).
• A variety of technical and scientific work.
The ICT SERIES 1900 range was announced in a simultaneous world-wide release on September 29, 1964.
Only eight months after this announcement, the equipment was installed and fully operational in the Data
Processing Branch of the Queensland Treasury Department.
This computer was manufactured and assembled by ICT in England. After undergoing extensive quality
control testing and trial operation it was despatched from England by air on Saturday, June 12, and
delivered to the Treasury Building in Brisbane on Monday, June 14. It was fully operational within 72
hours of delivery.
Enquire now—
our telephone numbers are:
Sydney, 92-7191
Canberra, 4-0291
Hobart, 2-4542
Perth, 21-9481
Melbourne, 51-0241
Brisbane, 2-3701
Adelaide, 51-5188
I*C*T
SERIES
0
I.C.T. International Computers and Tabulators Australia Pty. Ltd.
Australia’s largest supplier of data processing installations.
2493
will buy again. We will see what we
will see, but this writer’s prediction is
that they Will. Provided, that is, we have
enough of the right quality to sell to
them.
So we can consider these matters
and perhaps come to a better conclusion
about them as time goes by. So we
might forgive ourselves for being a little
envious, perhaps, of Canada. The deal
announced this month between the
Soviet and Canada involves 4,600,000
tons, which is over half the entire Aus-
tralian crop of last year. Canadian Trade
Minister, Mitchell Sharp, has ecstatically
proclaimed that “this takes care of the
harvest for as far ahead as we can see”.
In Winnipeg and SaskatchewarKthe cele-
brations will go on for months.
A thought (one trusts not subversive
because it has nothing to do with the
personal gallantry of Australian troops
in Vietnam) intrudes: Has Canada suf-
fered in her relations with the US be-
cause she has not got troops in Vietnam?
Five hundred and thirty million dollars
(that’s what the Russia-Canada deal is
worth) is a lot of money.
A further thought, and this can be
taken any way the reader wants to,
is this: The recent attack on Australian
Wheat Board policies in the Quarterly
Review of the Bank of NSW needs clari-
fication. Was this attack (familiar, one
might add) in line with the bank’s own
policy? If so, this needs to be stated.
Or was it merely that the editor had to
fill up his review and the wheat article
was dropped in his basket? All editors
have the same problem from time to
time. The grave fault with the article
was that it failed completely -to look
at the whole picture.
It is quite false to try to assess in
economic terms the weight of the wheat
subsidy in Australia if the weight of
protective tariffs for Australian second-
ary industry is not taken into account.
Australian wheatgrowers could get
along very well without any subsidy at
all if they could buy duty-free Toyotas
instead of Holden utilities, duty-free
Chinese fencing wire, and all the other
items which modern farming requires.
The critics of the Australian Wheat
Board estimate that the subsidy to the
industry over the last 10 years has been
£3O million. Wheatgrowers, in turn, can
show that they have lost £2OO million
since 1945 by selling wheat on the home
(Australian) market at under world
prices. True, this provision in our wheat
policy for selling a required amount for
some consumption at production cost has
not meant that we have enjoyed cheap
bread. This is a pity, but you cannot
blame the wheatgrower. All you can
blame is the desire of the Australian
worker to buy motor cars, TV sets and
houses. This is not a crime.


ESANDA
LIMITED
The main business of
Esanda Limited is to
conduct hire purchase
leasing and other
finance operations
Unsecured notes up to
J
eli
Unsecured not^s
issued at par issued at par
3 years
6%
3 years
6i%
interest per annum
payable half-yearly
m
Applications can be accepted only
on one of the forms of application
referred to in, and attached to printed
copies of the prospectus which
are available from Members of Stock
Exchanges and at any office of
The English Scottish
and Australian Bank Limited
E4P/69
\mMm
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Registered Office:
287 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Nothing for the Farmer
Political parties dodge rural policies
npHE recent Federal Labor Party Conference in Sydney offered nothing at all for
the farmer. The total absence of any worthwhile discussion on any farm problem
is further evidence that Labor these days simply has no farm policy at all.
The Rural Committee made mention
of the reserve-price plan, yet offered
nothing whatsoever of value. The only
contribution it is prepared to make,
apparently, is to add to whatever con-
fusion already exists. This is a pity.
The fact that the Country Party is so
strong in rural electorates does not alter
the contention that intelligent thought on
rural matters from all parties would be
helpful. Some of the DLP rural opinions,
for instance, are quite thought-provoking.
An updating of attitudes to farm prob-
lems is sorely needed. As far as this
writer knows not one party, not even the
CP. has come to grips with vertical inte-
gration. If ever a subject needed discus-
sion it is vertical integration.
There is not even an acceptable defi-
nition in general use. Yet vertical integra-
tion is altering, the whole farming scene
at an alarming rate. It is, and will be,
the biggest change during this century,
perhaps, in farming.
The products in the main which appear
in line for vertical integration to varying
degrees are meat, fruit, vegetables and
poultry. The supermarket is deeply in-
volved. In Melbourne, at present, there
are about seven large supermarket com-
plexes. In 10 years there will be about 25.
The butcher, as we know him, may be
pushed to the wall.
It is even possible that milk, butter and
cheese could be directed through super-
market outlets quite separate from the
normal Milk Board system. Eggs, too,
could be directed this way instead of
through the seemingly watertight CEMA
marketing system.
These are possibilities at this stage and
little more. But if a system of marketing
can be arrived at which gets produce to
the consuming public cheaper than the
existing system, then the existing system
is in trouble. This applies regardless of
what the Government attitude is.
Breaking the chain into components
we have four parts production, assem-
bly, processing and packaging, and distri-
bution. As these components are joined,
either by ownership or contract arrange-
ments, so vertical integration comes into
existence.
In broilers today, for instance, we
have ownership and contract applying to
production, assembly, and processing
three links in the chain. Likewise we can
see it in frozen peas and beans, and in
potatoes. It is not general, though it is
increasing every year.
The important thing, for the farmer, is
to ensure that he has a hand in the inte-
grating. Otherwise he could find himself
integrated by someone else. It could be
the worst thing that ever happened to
him or it could be the best. It all depends
on how rapidly the farmer, farm-organ-
isations, and political voices come to
terms with this remarkable development.
There is much to suggest that too many
of these people are simply unaware that
it is going on.


Try an Australian Whisky
TODAY!
Soviet Economy and “Profits”
Managerialism threatens the Party
By GERALD SEGAL
A SIMPLE truth now confronts any student of Soviet affairs in general and of the
Soviet economy in particular. This is the fact that all previous claims about the
virtues of the Party leadership of the State are now being undermined by the actual
state of the economy, and this is openly admitted by Soviet writers and thinkers.
It was always claimed by Soviet sources
- and the view was widely accepted
even by many Western commentators
that problems arising from the increas-
ing automation of industry, such as un-
employment and redundancy, either did
not exist or could be more easily handled
in Communist than in Western democra-
tic States. A few weeks ago, however, a
leading Soviet economist, Dr Y. Manye-
vich, writing in the journal “Voprosy
Ekonomiki” (“Economic Problems”), ad-
mitted that unemployment had followed
the introduction of automation techniques
and that, specifically, there were unem-
ployed to be found at the beginning of
the Seven Year Plan (1959) in Lenin-
grad, Moscow, Odessa and other cities.
He also calls for the introduction of some
kind of dole system to support redundant
workers during the retraining period con-
sequent upon the loss of a job due to
automation.
At the same time, A. Aganbegyan,
another economist who has been in the
forefront of those striving to use mathe-
matical methods and computer tech-
niques to improve economic planning,
has recently alleged that official Soviet
statistics are unreliable and that Soviet
economists have to use the figures worked
out by American commentators for their
own work on the Soviet economy.
Yet the issues implicit in such quota-
tions as are given above go further and
are in fact the response to deeper fissures
currently rending Soviet society. Such
fissures emerging from within the depths
of Communist society, and responding to
needs not envisaged by the theory of the
Communist revolution, in effect challenge
the entire world outlook which was born
of the Bolshevik revolution of October,
1917.
According to the Marxist-Leninist
scheme of things, the Soviet Union is
now moving from the socialist to the
Communist stage of development. By
1980, if current plans are successful,
which is more than doubtful, what is
called the material-technical basis of
Communism will have been laid. In brief,
this means that society will enjoy higher
living standards than were available to
the Americans in 1960, v/hen the plans
were drawn up, and that after 1980
society and its economy will operate on
the principle “from each according to his
ability, to each according to his needs”.
Whether any society anywhere will
ever operate on such a principle is, to
say the least, questionable. But the tragic
irony from the Russian point of view is
that it was precisely at that point in
time when they came to consider the
possibility of realising the original Com-
munist aims of the revolution and to ex-
press them in the 1961 Communist Party
Programme and the 20-year-plan for
economic development that Marxist-
Leninist ideology, as they had originally
defined it, was shown to be manifestly
irrelevant.
The Party programme asserts that
there exists in the Soviet Union a “State
of the Whole People”. This means that
there are no longer any antagonistic
classes in the USSR; socialism having
been established with the abolition of the
private ownership of the means of pro-
duction, admittedly, there may be differ-
ent classes, as, for example, workers and
peasants, but as neither owns the means
of production they cannot exploit each
other and they may therefore be regarded
as friendly allies.
But although this may appear to an
outsider to be a happy statement of
democratic intention, from the point of


CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act
of N.S.W. on Bth March, 1950)
STOCK
0
4, 6 or 10
YEARS
4,6 or 10 years 8%
3 years 7 3 A%
2yrs7'/i%
12 mths.7%
6 mths. 6%
Applications can only be accepted on the form
attached to, and referred to in the Prospectus.
HOW TO INVEST: Application form and Prospectus
may be obtained .
• Any Branch of the BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
• Any member of the Stock Exchange
. THE COMPANY’S OFFICES: Cambridge House, 249
George St., Sydney. ’Phone 27-8621.
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Canberra, Newcastle.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George St., Sydney
Pleasa send me, without obligation, a
copy of your Prospectus.
288437
NAME
ADDRESS
1262/FC
view of the Soviet Communist Party, it
involves them in a range of problems
and difficulties. For one thing socialism
as defined above was established in the
USSR as long ago as 1934, but Stalin,
instead of going forward to the idea of
the State of the Whole People, chose
instead to enforce the view that the class
struggle gains in intensity with the ad-
vance to socialism. Acting on this prin-
ciple, which is now admitted by his suc-
cessors to be a lie, Stalin launched the
murderous purges of the late ’thirties and
built up the forced-labor network. But
the Soviet people still have to live with
this memory, and the ruling party to
overcome the psychological distrust
which must be visited upon them.
Further, the Chinese have pointed out
that the very concept of the State of the
Whole People is contrary to Marxism-
Leninism. They argue that, according to
Marx, the State is by definition the instru-
ment whereby one class oppresses
another.
With the final abolition of classes, the
State will no longer exist. Marx had also
argued that between capitalist and Com-
munist society there existed a stage of
the revolutionary transformation of the
one into the other. Moreover ‘‘there cor-
responds to this also a political transition
period in which the State can be nothing
but the revolutionary dictatorship of the
proletariat”. The Russians, of course,
have an answer to this. They argue that
Marx meant by Communist society what
they describe as socialist and that between
socialism (to each according to his work)
and Communism (to each according to
his needs) the dictatorship of the prole-
tariat doesn't apply and the State of the
Whole People is possible.
The Chinese will have none of this and
for their own reasons. For to deny the
dictatorship of the proletariat is to deny
the dictatorship of the party, which
claims to represent the proletariat, and in
effect to question the authority of the
Communist Party leadership in all the
Communist States.
The logic of the State of the Whole
People is surely that all the people who
are citizens of the State should have the
right freely to determine the policy of
that State. This raises at once the issue
of free elections and a democratic parlia-
ment. So far as the present stage of
internal Russian history is concerned, it
resurrects the shadows of the freely elec-
ted constituent Assembly which was the
fruit of the February revolution of 1917
and which was destroyed in the name of
more universal social and economic free-
doms by the Communists seven months
later in that same year. Seen against the
world perspective, it means simply that
the Russians are moving towards the
kind of society symbolised by the bour-
geois democracies of the West.
The Soviet Communist Party, which is
naturally not anxious to relinquish its
power, has sought to avoid the logic of
its parasitic position and move off the
stage of history by introducing the idea
of a party of the whole people. But there
is neither historical warrant nor political
theory which can be used to justify the
surrender by the Soviet people of their
rights to enable the Party to act in their
name without reference to them, as was
in fact the case in the preceding period
of the dictatorship of the proletariat. The
present position is simply one of struggle
with the issue not yet decided, but that
the Communist Party is fighting a losing
battle is clear from a consideration of the
inroads being made by other forces and
ideas in fields where once only the Party's
voice was to be heard. Moreover, the fact
that the Party has been compelled to re-
treat from positions it once occupied and
enforced in the name of Marxism-Lenin-
ism or dialectical materialism, must in-
evitably reduce its stature in the eyes of
the Soviet people.
go * ar as science is concerned, the
abandonment of Lysenkoism and the
return to the Western tradition of
Mendel-Morganism meant much more
than the mere substitution of one school
of thought for another. The Party had
argued that Lysenko and the Michurin
tiadition which was behind him represen-
ted materialism in practice as opposed to
the bourgeois idealism of the Mendel-
Morganists. Lysenko has been sacked and
his views on genetics abandoned. It fol-
lows that either the Party doesn’t under-
stand dialectical materialism or the philo-
sophy itself is mistaken. The political
ramifications of the switch are wide-
spread and penetrate beyond the losses in
agriculture and scientific research work
which were the direct result of the Com-
munist Party's adoption of Lysenko’s
views. For the fact that pictures of
Gregor Mendel in his clerical habit have
been published, with his view that hered-
ity proceeds by particular genes and does
not directly respond to changes in the
environment, also queries a political
postulate on which the Soviet regime was
based namely, that human nature
could be changed and in particular a
new Soviet man would emerge with the
building of socialism.
So far as the economy is concerned, the
increasing introduction of the profit
criterion as a measurement of efficiency
will not only lead to the formation of a
neo-capitalist managerial - technocratic
elite but will also demonstrate the irrele-
vance of the Communist Party secretary
in the factory.
In the first week of July, some 400


DEPARTMENT OF
TRADE AND INDUSTRY
CANBERRA
-
careers for
graduates
The Commonwealth Department of Trade and
Industry is seeking graduates of superior
ability, drive and initiative for appointments
in the Department’s Central Office in Canberra.
TYPE OF WORK
Research into
■ International Trade and commodity
arrangements.
■ Promotion of Australian exports.
■ Tariff and import policy.
■ Fostering of Australian secondary industry.
QUALIFICATIONS
For graduates generally, Degree in Economics,
Commerce, Arts, Law', Science. Generally
speaking. Economics or Commerce graduates
are preferred, but personal qualities are more
important than type of degree.
If you expect to graduate this year you are
eligible to apply for any of these vacancies.
SALARY ON APPOINTMENT
Within the range £1482/£lB4B.
Honours graduates receive a minimum salary
of £1543.
Women graduates receive £2Ol less.
CONDITIONS OF APPOINTMENT
COMPREHENSIVE TRAINING SCHEME
during first twelve months.
SUBSIDISED RENT for married officers
brought to Canberra.
SUPERANNUATION SCHEME applies.
OPPORTUNITIES
Promotion opportunities are good foT imagina-
tive intelligent young graduates with a
capacity for independent w r ork.
APPLICATION #
Application forms and information brochures
are available from the Department’s Regional
Offices and Commonwealth Public Service
Inspector’s Offices in each capital city and
from all University Appointments Boards.
APPLICATIONS CLOSE with The Secretary,
Department of Trade and Industry, Canberra,
on 16th September, 1965.
enterprises engaged in the light and con-
sumer goods industries were switched
on to a profit-incentive system. Many
foreign economists deny that this is the
beginning of sweeping changes in the
Soviet economy leading to a kind of capi-
talist system. In the writer's view, how-
ever, the inevitable consequence must he
the transformation of a Marxist-Leninist
party-dominated-State into a managerial
society.
The reason for holding this view is
simply that the profit motive cannot be
confined within one branch of industry
alone. Obviously the manager of a shoe
or dress factory might decide that he can
increase his profits by switching from,
say, leather to a synthetic rubber, or from
silk to nylon; to do this he will have to
order different materials from his own
suppliers and also different kinds of
machinery with which to process those
new materials when they arrive. One must
note, too, that the originator of the profit
scheme. Professor Yevsei Liberman, first
proposed it for the engineering industries
(in 1956 and again in 1962) and that
Soviet Premier Kosygin has announced
that the Government and Party are work-
ing on the possibility of extending the
new scheme from light to heavy industry
(speech to Supreme Soviet in December,
1964).
There also seems to have been a change
in the Soviet internal opposition to the
profit-motive scheme. Thus economist
D. Belkin, writing in the newspaper
“Isvestia”, takes the following line: “The
critics of profit sanctimoniously identify
it with capitalism. But the evil of capital-
ism does not lie in its trend towards profit
but in its distribution, in obtaining in-
come not in accordance with labor ex-
pended, but depending upon the posses-
sion of capital.” The only point which Mr
Belkin has overlooked is the great taxing
power of the State in the Western capital-
ist democracies. In effect, the new policy
leaves the way open to a consumer-
orientated society run by managers in the
most efficient way possible in terms of
available resources, with the State taking
such steps as may be necessary to provide
for its security, as is done in the econo-
mies of the Western world.
The old problem of securing the prior-
ity growth of heavy industry need not be
affected by the new scheme, although it is
possible that this criterion for Soviet
economic progress may well be aban-
doned. Quite extraordinarily, there ap-
peared a few weeks ago in the “Econo-
mic Gazette” an article by a Soviet econo-
mist in which it was argued that when
Marx referred to the priority develop-
ment of heavy, as opposed to light and
consumer industry, he, and subsequently
Lenin, had in mind capitalist and not
socialist economies. Apart from the cur-
rent pressing issue of the direction of
the Soviet economy, what this article in
fact concedes is that the entire industrial-
isation policy forced upon the Soviet
people in Stalin's time, ruthlessly, and
with loss of life, was unnecessary and un-
justified by the needs of socialism. An
admission of this kind can only weaken
still further such links as still remain be-
tween the Soviet Communist Party and
the people.
Symptomatic, too, of the rethinking
which is currently going on is the appeal
of one Soviet commentator, F. Burlatskii,
in the columns of “Pravda”, for the
acceptance of political science as an in-
dependent discipline and the necessity for
research in this field. This is only neces-
sary because historical materialism, which
is the Marxist interpretation of the devel-
opment of society, does not provide a
solution to the manifold problems and
conflicts currently harassing the Soviet
people. Included in the proposed field of
study of the new science (new to the
Soviet Union) are the political (class)
relationships in both socialist and capital-
ist States, the relations between States in
the international arena, and political
parties. The reference to political (class)
relations under socialism amounts to a
revelation, if we bear in mind that the
aim of socialism was precisely to abolish
class distinctions in human society.


invest in
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
A
DEBENTURE STOCK
o
FOR 5 YEARS
(SECOND SERIES)
7% 4 YEARS
b\% 3 YEARS
61% 2 YEARS
5J% 12 MONTHS
or
How to apply Applications will be
accepted only on the printed forms attached to the Prospectus.
Your copy available from all Members of Stock Exchanges, all
Branches of the A.N.Z. Bank and I.A.C.
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER & CO.
8880
INVEST
The Early Bird Catches...?
Brokers react to the Budget
DIMMING being the essence of invest-
ment, at least two Melbourne brokers
wasted no time in letting their clients
know they thought the Budget would be
good for markets. After burning mid-
night oil on Budget night as last year,
John N. Robertson, Thompson and Co.
was first through the post with its views.
Wm Noall and Son was only a delivery
behind. If the Little Collins Street firm
won the race (postal deliveries can vary
from address tc address) this is as it
should be, perhaps, because idea-prone
Mr Alan Thompson (who, one hears, is
at present cooking up something quite
new in Australia in the way of investment
trusts) started the practice last year.
The main hinge on which brokers
generally are swinging more optimistic-
ally is the stay-put in company tax rates.
As one put it, “The market had been
anticipating more burdensome measures.
Now the possibility of a squeeze on
company profits through increased com-
pany taxation has been removed.”
Another couples the absence of any in-
creases in sales tax with this, rather
neglecting the fact that the new imposts
on petroleum products, beer and spirits,
and tobacco are really sales taxes under
other names or at least have the same
effect as them.
At this stage the effect of the new
duties on consumption on the profits of
the affected companies is admittedly
difficult to gauge. The early market re-
actions could be deceptive. To say, as
Noall’s have, that prices of petroleum
distributors “will not be adversely
affected by the increase in customs duty”,
is brave. The precise effect on Ampol
and Sleigh could, of course, be disguised
if the market generally improves. These
companies’ interests involve much more
than oil distribution, which makes it all
the more difficult to isolate the effects
of particular influences.
However, Noah's admit that the in-
crease in petroleum duties could weaken
shares of transport companies. In Ansett’s
case, increased air navigation charges
imposed in the Budget could also have
some effect, even if marginal. Nonethe-
less, Noah’s believes some shares in this
field “may be bought” and instances
Fleetways and Chalmers, both wfith yields
of more than 5 p.c.
The two early-to-post brokers feel that
brewery shares won’t be stained by the
rise in beer prices, holding a unanimous
view that profits will not be affected.
Allowing for some initial consumer re-
action, surely it is a shot in the dark on
their part not to discount some slowing
of the upward trend in consumption.
After all, the beer excise duty hasn’t been
changed since 1956 and 2d. on a middy
is a pretty big slug in NSW. The effects,
however, would be disguised in Victoria
should six o’clock closing be abolished
this year.
It serves little purpose in extrapolating
the reactions pf consumers and, via this,
to company profits, to say that even after
the increase in duties in the Budget prices
of petrol, beer, spirits and tobacco com-
pare most favorably with those in Britain.
The point is that here people have god
more accustomed to spending much
lower proportions of their incomes on
these goods. As prices rise, they may
be more reluctant than the brokers seem
to be implying to cut back their pur-
chases of other things in order to keep
up their consumption of petrol, beer and
tobacco,
Noah's make no reference to tobacco
shares. The other early bird thinks they
should not be “condemned out of hand”,
but should rather be considered on their
all-weather merits—particularly the man-
ner in which they held up in face of the
anticipation that the duty would be in-
creased in the Budget. He makes the
point that, although the general market
is now 10 p.c. lower than it was at the
end of June last year, British Tobacco's
shares have appreciated 12 p.c.. Philip


GIANT ROOF
PURLOINED BY
ARMCO
Our advertising man has not quite grasped the point. We mean Armco purlins.
We explained how Armco Purl ins save valuable time on big projects like
the Dalgety-New Zealand Loan wool store at Sunshine; how they are
ideally suited to new fastening methods like self-tapping screws and
neoprene washers; how they are fire proof, rot proof, warp proof, shrink
proof; how you can set the frames wider, because they are so light and
strong; how they are simply and quickly erected by the men who put up
the structural work.
Can’t think what came over him.
Better drop us a line and we’ll see that someone here gets the story
straight.
A
oowav
(Australia) Pty. Ltd.
N.S.W.: 127-141 Bath Road, Sutherland. 521-2711.
Victoria: 32 Levanswell Road, Moorabbin. 5.20. 95-0241.
Queensland: 194-196 Grey Street, South Brisbane. 4-3214.
South Australia: P.O. Box 68, Port Adelaide.
AR143.64
Invest in
tags
INTEREST
UP TO
FOR
4
YEARS
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
AND UNSECURED NOTES
Applications for Debentures and Notes only accepted on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from:
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
A.G.C. House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
ASK THE ’WALES' FOR DETAILS
N013.N.
Morris 44 p.c., and Rothmans 9 p.c. He
admits, however, that this strong market
showing owes a lot to the “vigorous
policy of these companies to diversify”.
The “Big W”
TI/’oolworths Ltd has announced
" plans for raising £7.5m. towards
the £lom. it expects to spend on ex-
panding the chain by 48 units this
financial year ending January, 1966.
A share issue, one-for-five at 2s. 6d.
premium, will rake in £6m.; another
£156,372 will come from allotment of
shares at ss. premium for staff members,
and £1.35m. comes from an unsecured
notes issue for which arrangements have
been made. Purchase-lease' arrangements
and inner resources will take care of
the balance apparently.
Two “Big W” department stores and
28 other new stores will be opened in
the second half of the current year, in
addition to the 18 new stores opened
during the first half. This brings the
chain in Australia and New Zealand to
902 stores. Development will not cease
then. Plans are well under way for the
1966 additions.
Paid ordinary capital after the issue
will be £24m. New shares do not rank
for the final dividend for 1965-66.
Rights trading will take place for
three and a half months until mid-
January, so opportunities could arise to
buy in at less than the averaging-down
price of 14s. 4d. indicated by Wool-
worths’ closing price of 15s. 9d. just
before the issue was announced.
Directors simultaneously announced
higher sales and profits for the half-year
to July 28.
Retailers Hit Back
fPHE board of Anthony Hordern and
Sons Ltd felt it was advisable to
issue another interim statement to en-
courage shareholders and the trading
public prior to issuing final results for
the year to the end of August.
They said that sales from the centra-
lised departments of the mid-city store
(the old Hordern Brothers) were 21 p.c.
up so far in the current year. Progress
with lettings of surplus space at the Brick-
field Hill store was apparently sufficient
to allow the forecast of a profit in 1965-
66. General reorganisation would be
complete by the end of August.
Credit rating is high at Hordern’s, as
all current creditors are paid up to date.
This optimism cannot hide the basic
fact that there will be a “substantial” loss
for the year almost ended, of which
£67,087 was incurred in the February


THE
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
Cash and Conversion
LOAN
51%
FOR 10 OR 15 YEARS
51%
FOR 7 YEARS
Unconditionally Guaranteed by the N.S.W. Government
An Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W.
Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania
INSTALMENTS ACCEPTED. If you prefer to invest by instal-
ments, you can pay 10% deposit on application, and the balance
by 30th November, 1965.
CONVERSION OPPORTUNITIES . Holders of securities in Loans
Nos. 136 (4f% maturing Ist September, 1965), 89 and 139 (4f%
maturing Ist October, 1965) are invited to convert to HIGHER
interest.
TAX CONCESSIONS. An approved security for Trustees of
Pension and Superannuation Funds who wish to qualify for
Taxation Concessions.
INVEST OR CONVERT at any office of the Commonwealth
Trading Bank; Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank
of New South Wales; Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
Limited; English, Scottish and Australian Bank Limited; Rural
Bank of New South Wales; through your Stockbroker; or at the
Board’s offices.
I
29 664
half. This follows total losses of £702,428
in the previous three years.
The company is supporting the Up-
town Sydney Development Committee
which has been instrumental in elimina-
ting the fare differential between Market
Street and Brickfield Hill and causing the
car tow-away system to be abandoned.
Mark Foy’s Ltd sees that small stores
give greater flexibility and spread the
risk, so is, at the end of October, opening
a 5000 square feet boutique in the new
Imperial Arcade running from David
Jones to Farmers in Sydney.
Apart from its main store at the
corner of Elizabeth and Liverpool
Streets, Mark Foy’s has in the last five
years opened successful small boutiques
in Double Bay, Pymble, Northbridge,
Canberra, and one block away from the
new Imperial Arcade site, in King Street.
Hire and Higher
ITV\x losses enabled Cambridge Credit
A Corporation Ltd to show an earning
rate of 15.6 p.c. instead of 14 p.c. for the
year to June 30 last.
The profit continued the uninterrupted
growth of this Sydney-based financier.
Dividend was again 10 p.c., following
last year’s decision to allow a more
rapid accumulation of reserves than the
old 12i p.c. rate permitted.
Outstandings of Alliance Holdings Ltd
(under the MLC umbrella) rose 20 p.c.
in the June year. Hire-purchase receiv-
ables were not responsible for the in-
crease. It stemmed from property mort-
gages, bridging finance and other secured
advances.
Profit rose in line with outstandings
from £318,921 to £380,906. Earning
rate of 17.1 p.c. gave a sound margin
over the 10 p.c. dividend. From taxed
profits £lOO,OOO was appropriated for a
contingencies provision. Dividend
absorbs £222,500.
Peak for Peko
A nother step-up in the dividend scale
is the reward for shareholders of the
copper, gold and coal miner, Peko-Wall-
send Investments Ltd, in respect of the
year to July 6, 1965.
Earning rate moved up from 23.8 p.c.
to 25.6 p.c., allowing a dividend of 15
p.c. instead of the I3i p.c. rate paid
in the two preceding years. In 1961,
when the company was formed by a
merger of Peko Mines NL and Wallsend
Holding and Investment Co. Ltd, the
dividend rate was 9 p.c.
In those five years profits have shown
regular advances from £175,655 to
£516,456. Most earnings derive from the


v ■;
one bite of the cherry
.. . one order ..„
for Brambles Industrial Services
have the most comprehensive range of
equipment, the widest experience
and expert staff to enable them to give
complete service from one source.
• excavation • crane hire
© concrete pouring • earth moving
• site development • steel erection
• wellpoint watering • plant hire
Take one bite at the cherry—
place all your basic site development
in the hands of
[BRAMBLES
INDUSTRIAL SERVICES
CORNER OF DOWLING STREET & TODMAN AVENUE,
WATERLOO, N.S.W. TELEPHONE 663 0465.
BIS.B
Tennant Creek (NT) copper-gold mine.
Latest news is that the company has de-
cided to proceed with the Explorer 8
prospect there, where diamond drilling
established high grade gold mineralisa-
tion at depth.
Alluvial tin mining operations will be
begun on a limited scale at Hawthorpe
(Qld) and Inverell (NSW), where, at
present, ore reserve of approximately
one million cubic yards is estimated to
yield one pound of tin oxide per cubic
yard.
A couple of joint exploration projects
are under negotiation, one with Asbestos
Corporation Ltd of Canada for gold and
base metals in the Northern Territory
and another with IPEC for alluvial gold
in Northern Queensland.
Defence Pickings
Turning rate of Pye Industries Ltd
has slipped from 39.1 p.c. to 34.7
p.c. on capital increased by a one-for-
four par issue, despite a 10 p.c. lift in
profit for the year to March 31.
Actual profit was £325,171, just
short of the record earnings of two
years earlier. The latest profit looks
high in relation to the £178,246 pro-
vided for tax, so the explanation forth-
coming in the annual report will be in-
teresting.
The group was troubled by bad debts
in the electrical goods side of the busi-
ness during the past two years.
The subsidiary, Bendix-Tecnico Pty,
plays a support role to Australia’s de-
fence forces. Thus increased Government
expenditure in that direction will do
Pye no harm.
Dividend is, as usual, 10 p.c. on or-
dinary capital, after satisfying preference
shareholders’ requirements.
Two-pronged Attack
effect of the June, 1964, wage in-
creases was felt by Repco Ltd,
motor parts dealer, in the final half of
the year to June 30.
So the glow of satisfaction from record
sales and profits in the first half faded,
with the final net result a modest enough
7 p.c. increase. Taxes and depreciation
were both higher.
On larger average capital the earning
rate slipped from 27.1 to 25.1 p.c. The
dividend of 15 p.c. was unvaried.
A two-pronged effort to compensate
for the wage increases is being made —
in one direction price increases, in the
second a reduction in other operating
costs.


DISTRICT
MANAGER
The expansion of the International Company Hyster
Australia Pty. Ltd. has created a vacancy for a District
Manager.
The Company manufactures forklift trucks, logging and construction
equipment and there are great opportunities for advancement.
The District Manager has a general function to provide assistance to a
well-established, efficient dealer network. His main responsibility is to
ensure that the factory/dealer relationship develops to the best advant-
age. He should have some understanding of advertising, sales promotion
and business management. His background should be in the capital
equipment field.
It is expected that the man appointed will be at least 27 years of age.
An attractive salary will be paid and is subject to negotiation.
Fringe benefits include company car and superannuation scheme. A good
deal of interstate travel is involved and some overseas travel may be
necessary at later stages.
Applications in writing giving full details, including age, qualifications,
experience and telephone number should be addressed to:
Personnel Manager,
HYSTER AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.,
Ashford Avenue, Milperra, N.S.W.
Correspondence treated in strictest confidence.
McDonald industries
LIMITED
McDonald Constructions Pty. Ltd., the main operating subsidiary
company, requires additional staff to assist in carrying out extensive
engineering contracts throughout the Commonwealth and invites applica-
tions for the following positions:
1 SENIOR ELECTRICAL ENGINEER —To assist Chief
Electrical Engineer.
Qualified to design and construct all types of electrical installations.
Preferably familiar with contract procedures and capable of
negotiating with clients and consultants.
2 CIVIL ENGINEERS
Field experienced in the technical and costing aspects of construction
in the field. Preferably corporate members of I.E. Australia.
2 CIVIL ENGINEERS
Design, preferably with at least 3 years experience in design.
These appointments could lead to promotion to the position of Project
Engineer.
1 MECHANICAL ENGINEER
Capable of co-ordinating the work of industrial plant design,
procurement and construction. Preferably corporate member of I.E.
Australia or equivalent qualifications with a trade background. It
would be advantageous to have a working knowledge of heavy
construction plant.
5 ENGINEERING DRAUGHTSMEN
1 Senior design man and 4 detail men experienced in industrial
plant layout and piping.
2 ENGINEERING DRAUGHTSMEN
Civil design and detail, with a minimum of 3 years' experience in
_ general civil and structural engineering drawing.
ELECTRICAL DRAUGHTSMAN
Design and Detail. Experienced in high tension and outdoor switch
gear and controls.
1 SUPERVISOR
Experienced in supervision of large civil engineering works.
Good employment conditions prevail and salaries are open to negotiation.
Applications, headed with the nature of appointment required, also
stating age, marital status, qualifications and experience, should be
directed to:—
Mr. F. 0. L'Estrange,
Personnel Officer, McDONALD INDUSTRIES LIMITED,
Kent Ref. and Coward St., MASCOT, N.S.W.
EXPANSION
DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM
The expansion of
HYSTER AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
has created a need for young men eager for advancement
in the Engineering and Marketing fields.
This world-wide company manufactures forklift trucks and other
light materials handling equipment.
Depending upon qualifications future advancement would be
either in sales or marketing survey.
A degree in Economics, Commerce, Eusiness Management or
Engineering would be preferable but applicants in the course of
undertaking such sludy will be considered.
Age group 20-30 years.
Salary: This will be negotiated and will be dependent on qualifica-
cations.
Superannuation scheme will shortly be available.
Apply in writing giving personal details, education and technical
qualifications or telephone for appointment.
Personnel Manager,
HYSTER AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.,
Ashford Avenue, Milperra, Sydney.
Money for Sugar
The day the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd announced
its one-for-eight premium issue (at 305.), the 20s. units
closed at 635. The theoretical ex-rights price was then 595. 4d.
Next day they were traded down to 61s. 6d. It is likely that
incoming investors will be able to do better than this during
rights trading between September 6 and November 1.
CSR is raising close on £5 million by the issue. At March
31 last, the group had contracted for £7.2m. capital ex-
penditure. Major expansion includes the £7om. Mount
‘Newman iron-ore project, in which CSR has a half interest.
The company’s appetite for funds is greater than ever
before. It swallowed £7 million in debenture money, late in
November, 1964, bringing loan funds to £B.B million, against
issued capital of £26.5 million.
Existing shareholders of CSR can obtain a return of 8.3 p.c.
from the additional money they invest in CSR shares. This
exceeds the 7 p.c. return which investors were clamoring for
from the debentures;
The company has expanded its basic interests with moves
into concrete, and the exploitation of iron ore. Bauxite could
be the next project if its share in Swiss Aluminium’s bid for
the Northern Territory lease is successful.
These capital needs and a more generous dividend policy
in the last five years have taken the stodginess out of CSR
as an investment. Those with money to place, and who can
afford to outride any intervening bumps in the economy,
could do well by picking up some CSR rights.
Records All Round
Shareholders of Walkers Ltd, Maryborough (Queensland)
engineer and shipbuilder, collect 15 p.c. on capital in
respect of the June 30, 1965, year. Usual dividend rate is
121 p.c.
Directors are in the enviable position of being able to
report record sales and record profit, after record tax and
depreciation provisions.
Earning rate is 36.9 p.c. on capital enlarged by the one-
for-two centenary bonus issue. The bonus shares attract a
pro rata dividend of 111 p.c.
Walkers have been involved with plenty of sugar milling
and general engineering and shipbuilding work.
From a debit position in 1961, this Queenslander has made
rapid strides and the profit recorded was £110,368 in 1964,
£146,733 in 1965. Paid capital is now £396,945.
The ss. shares are selling around 11s. 9d. to give an income
yield of 6.4 p.c. and earnings yield of 15.7 p.c. Keeping in
mind the inherent vulnerability of engineering stocks, these
are attractive returns.
Directors have made a concrete gesture of confidence in
advancing dividend on bonus-inflated capital. (The 1965 pay-
out is equivalent to nearly 21 p.c. on the old capital.) In a
different market atmosphere these shares would be pursued.


TWO TICKETS TO NEW ZEALAND -ONE FOR HALF THE NORMAL FARE!
It’s the Qantas ‘Wife Vacation’ Plan. Works two ways. Your
wife gets the holiday she’s been longing for. You get the sav-
ings (and the holiday, too). And, if you’re travelling to New
Zealand on business, what could be better? Still only one
full adult return fare while your wife vacations along with
you for half the return air fare. It’s the kind of surprise she
will hug you for —say ‘No wonder you’ve got tickets on
Qantas!’ Take other members of the family, too! Again, just
the one full return adult fare —your wife and everyone,
under 26 years of age travels for half or less (under 12
only 35% of the normal adult fare; under 2 only 10% of
the normal adult return fare). Fly from Melbourne of
Sydney on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and
up to 6.00 a.m. on Fridays for holidays up to 21 wonderful
days. With Qantas Credit
Travel you can plan your
whole holiday for a mere 10%
deposit. Come, see us (or your
Qantas Travel Agent) for com-
plete information.
Australia’s Round-World Airline
44 years of dependable service
■
.
Wmig
/
QANTAS EMPIRE: AIRWAYS LIMITED, in association with AIR NEW, ZEALAND and 8.0A.C.
T39.FP.45


SECURITY ANALYSIS
More Than a Seven-year Itch
GAGA shares seem on the cheap side
Commercial and General Accept-
ance Limited was incorporated just
over seven years ago and was sponsored
by the Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney. By this time the other major
trading banks had already gone a long
way in their moves into consumer credit.
Problems seem to have arisen from
the outset. There were difficulties over
the name of the company (particularly
over the initials that would be used).
Economic Holdings, which was acquired
from Myers shortly after CAGA opened
its doors for business, seems to have not
been all it first appeared to be and re-
quired some re-negotiation of the price.
Then, within four years of commencing
operations, the Australian economy was
subjected to its first major recession since
the end of World War 11.
Perhaps as a result of this period, when
there were more funds available to
finance companies than there was busi-
ness for them to finance, CAGA
seems to have featured in a num-
ber of major deals. The first ex-
ample was the acquisition of Chevron
Queensland in conjunction with lAC.
This was followed two years later with
an arrangement to enable Factors Ltd
to retain possession of Holeproof New
Zealand. About this same time, CAGA
also acquired a substantial interest in
Australian Equity Corporation and by
June, 1964, this interest represented 48.2
p.c. of the total capital of AEC.
About twelve months after CAGA ac-
quired its first holding in AEC, the direc-
tors of the latter company issued their
half-yearly report for 1964-65. This re-
port contained the following statements:
“The lower result is due mainly to un-
paid interest on certain secured advances.
This adverse factor has been partly offset
by a lower incidence of income tax, re-
sulting from the existence of pre-acqui-
sition losses in subsidiary companies.
“The company has made loans secured
by first mortgage and debenture charges
over real estate and other assets of a
large building and development group
recently placed under receivership. The
directors therefore report that the com-
pany’s results for the second half of the
year are likely to be affected by the non-
receipt of interest on these loans.”
A week later, it was announced that
the total principal outstanding under
loans to subsidiaries of Savoy Corpora-
tion and to US Finance Corporation and
certain of its subsidiaries was £2,375,434
about 12.3 p.c. of total net outstand-
ings.
Events then followed fairly swiftly.
CAGA announced a takeover offer for
the balance of AEC’s shares 11 days after
the second announcement. Then the cur-
rent debenture issue of AEC was closed
on March 26, 1965, with £980,000 sub-
scribed. The directors accepted CAGA’s
offer and recommended it to AEC's
shareholders on March 31.
One can only make some rough guess
as to the effect on AEC of the non-pay-
ment of interest on this amount of nearly
£2.4 million; it seems as if it would have
resulted in a reduction of net profit
before tax from about £544,000 to
about £324,000. If this should be
anywhere near correct, an amount
of roughly £500,000 would have
been written off and provided against
debtors, for the announced loss for
1964-65 was £172,000 before writing off
£48,000 intangibles. It therefore seems
that, provided no further write-offs are
necessary, a profit of around £190,000
could be expected from AEC in 1965/66,
even after full provision of income tax.
This would mean that CAGA’s new
investment in AEC of just over
£1 million should earn at least 10 p.c.
net after tax at the outset, which would
not be unattractive to any finance com-
pany today.
Tt is now appropriate to attempt an
examination of the past results of the
CAGA group in a similar way to that
which has been followed in the examina-
tion of the other finance companies over
recent weeks. Unfortunately, I do not
know the profits that have been made
by the insurance subsidiaries and includ-
ed in the consolidated accounts prior to
the sale of the major part of the holding
in January, 1964. For the purpose of this
exercise, I will assume that the inclusion
of these profits and the assets of the in-
surance subsidiaries will have no material
effect on the profitability ratios.
The company gives considerable detail
in its published accounts and enables
the following percentages of “outstand-
ings” to be calculated. “Outstandings” in
this case means the total of the figures
for “investments” and “current assets”
appearing in the consolidated balance
sheet.
Year to June 30 1962 1963 1964
Gross earned income 12.5 J 2.1 12.2
Interest 5.5 5.4 5.7
Expenses 4,4 4,2 . 4:0
Net profit before tax 2.6 2.5 2.6
If “investments” and “investment in-
come” are excluded, the figures do not
change substantially, but the percentage
of net profit before tax does exhibit a
more pronounced downward trend. How-
ever, it is clear that “expenses” have been
well controlled and represent a declining
proportion of “outstandings”. As a result,
the ratios of “gross national income” less
“expenses” (or net profit before tax and
interest) to outstandings has shown an
upward trend and compares as follows
with the same percentage for the other
companies which have been examined:
Financial year ending in 1963 1964
Associated Securities 8.66 8.62
Australian G'tee Corp. 9.54 9.26
CAGA 7.79 8.03
General Credits - 7.25 7.66
lAC Holdings 8.37 8.46
The most interesting facets of these
figures are, first, that where the ratio is
in excess of 8.5 p.c. it has shown a tend-
ency to decline, but, secondly, the figures
are so close for all the companies con-
cerned.
With the new issue of eight million
shares at 6s. 3d., it seems that, even after
consolidating AEC, CAGA will have
scope to borrow at least another £lO
million. This should add about £140,000
to earnings and would take the earning
rate on the increased ordinary capital
to about 15.7 p.c. At current prices of
about 7s. 6d., the shares have a potential
earnings yield of 10.5 p.c. and an im-
mediate dividend yield of 6.7 p.c. They
seem, therefore, somewhat on the cheap
side relative to other bank-backed finance
companies’ shares.
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (£'000)
Dec. 31
Year to June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1964
Net outstandings 25021 25595 31408 38826 40316
Leased equipment,
cash and other
debtors 911 2267 4747 2928 4057
Investments 55 903 1028 2220 2146
Fixed assets 658 747 884 996 1035
Inlcngibles 46 46 46 46 46
Total assets 26691 29557 38113 45016 47600
Short tertn. debt 8469 6748 9677 8844).,n<-i /
Long term debt 13248 16844 22596 l4
Bank overdraft 57 399 - 326
Other liabilities 823 838 912 992 1452
Ordinary capital 3710 3973 4000 5000 5000
Reserves 375 765 928 1508 1634
PROFIT STATEMENTS SUMMARIES (£'000)
June 30
1965
Interest 1266 1514 1795 2309 n.a.
Depreciation (leases) 226 226 203 251 n.a.
Tax provision 321 244 282 436 583
Earnings 467 474 540 622 771
Ordinary dividend ■ 371 380 400 471 500
Surplus 96 94 140 151 271
Earning rate % 12.6 12.5 13.5 13.2 15.4
Dividend rate % 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0
Dividend yield % (a) 4.4 4.7 4.0 5.0 6.7
High price (b) 11/9 14/- 13/- 14 2 10/7
Low price -(b) . 8/3 10/1 11/2 9/10 7/
fa) Based on last sale in month accounts presented,
b) Calendar year.


Finance
Corporation
ofAustnMa
Limited
INCORPORATED IN.SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DEBENTURE STOCK
3
0
4
0
I
m
5
p£rannum6monihs
mm
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only
on the printed form referred to in and attached to the
prospectus. Prospectuses and forms of application
should be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier. jdn.2
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
And Now for Aluminium
William Adams latched to growth
William Adams and Co. Ltd has
proved successful as a major distri-
butor of steel and has recently extended
activities to aluminium, which shows
every indication of being as profitable as
the company's other operations.
It has recently begun distribution of
the mill products of Alcoa, a link which
places Adams in the forefront of -what
may prove to be one of the fastest grow-
ing industries in Australia.
The company began operations in 1884
and now operates in all States. For many
years it was known principally as a steel
merchant. In recent years activities have
been expanded and steel is now only one
of the five major interests. The group’s
merchandising division offers a wide
range of portable electric tools, abrasives,
valves and pipe fittings, and hand tools.
The group is also a major tractor dis-
tributor, holding franchises for Caterpillar
tractors and Hyster International trucks
in Victoria and Tasmania. It also holds
a licensing agreement for Ferrodor paint
and operates a steel reinforcing offshoot.
The company has been listed for many
years. Despite difficulties in the depres-
sion years, capital growth has been
gradual, with full participation by share-
holders. Since 1950, shareholders have
participated in a one-for-two issue at par
(1950), one-for-five bonus and two-for-
five cash at par (1956), a 6 p.c. convert-
ible note issue on a one-for-two basis in
1959, a one-for-five at par (1961), a
placement at a premium in 1963, and a
recently announced one-for-five at a pre-
mium. After the latest issue, and includ-
ing the capital increase following the note
conversion, paid-up capital will be
£2,742,000. In 1960 it was only £1.2
million.
Profit in recent years has matched a
rapid increase in sales. Turnover since
1959 has almost doubled from £9.7
million to £18.9 million. With the new
business it is almost certain to exceed the
£2O million mark this year. Profit for the
1965 year was £509,761, equal to 30 2
p.c. on capital increased by a substantial
conversion of notes. This is almost double
the £282.93 1 earned two years ago and is
well above the £398,297, equal to 24.5
p.c. on capital, earned in 1964.
In 1962 results were affected by a con-
traction in business. Profit was only
£102,143, equal to 7 p.c. on capital, and
failed to cover the 10 p.c. dividend re-
quirement. However, with the improve-
ment of earnings, dividend has been
raised in each of the following years.
The 1963 distribution was Ilf p.c.
This was raised to 12V p.c. in 1964 and
last year’s distribution became 15 p.c.,
including a bonus 2V p.c. During the past
year, all sections of the group showed
improvements sales of the merchandise
division were up 7.7 p.c., steel division
22.7 p.c., engineering 28 p.c. and tractor
division 32 p.c.
The company keeps its plant and fac-
tories in tiptop shape. Last year con-
siderable sums were spent in duplicat-
ing the steel warehouse in Melbourne
and building -a new steel warehouse
and office at Hobart, while extensions
to the steel warehouse in Adelaide are
nearing completion.
Considerable building activity is'
planned for the current year in Mel-
bourne, Hobart and Brisbane. In ad-
dition, negotiations are under way for


THE TWO "TONIGHT SHOWS" A TOTAL UNDUPLKATED
AUDIENCE OF
389,000 ADULTS
TllE^ol¥
m WmM Mmm JFm m
ONE AUDIENCE
A DIFFERENT AUDIENCE
m
m
SSF
mu
CHANNEL 9 enjoys competition even to the point of
competition between audiences for the two “Tonight
Shows.” Both shows have the same format, the same
inimitable Don Lane, and they go on air at the same time
yet out of the gross total audience for the week of
502,000 adults, there’s a net unduplicated audience of
389,000 adults. Put it another way: advertising on only
one of the two nights, you reach a large slice of the
population—and you miss another large slice that you
would have reached had you advertised on both nights.
That’s the kind of big, unduplicated, adult audience you
expect from a television station that believes free
competition means better television for viewers and
advertisers.
*
The above figures were specially prepared for Channel 9 by The
Anderson Analysis Pty. Ltd. by a re-analysis of their Sydney Television
Audience Survey .No. 6, 1965.
FOR A BREAKDOWN OF THE DAILY VIEWING PATTERNS
AND OTHER PERTINENT FACTS, CONTACT YOUR
LOCAL TCN 9 REPRESENTATIVE.
Channel
Studio and transmitter at Artarmon Road, Willoughby. 43-G444.
Sales —Sydney: Ist Floor, Cricket House, George Street. 27-2881.
Melbourne: 247 Collins Street. 63-8336.


y.j A
BELLS
. Scotch tyjt.
p
P 1
DIST IUERS °(rth SCOTLAND
the
largest-selling
Scotch in
Scotland
A custom all good
Scotsmen know.
A spot of Bell's
%
Arthur Beil & Son, Ltd., Distillers, Perth, Scotland.
An Independent Company
8W10.65N1
MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
€1
D
PER
Lx
-H
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications for Debentures and Unsecured Notes,
accepted only on the form referred to in and attached to
the printed prospectus which is available from:
BANK OF N.S.W.
IN
CAPITAL CITIES
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE
COMPANY LTD.
316 Pitt St., Sydney
Tel. 61-9701
ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
MA.2I3.NSW
the sale of the company's property at
Alexandria, following the move of the
Sydney branch to the outer suburb of
Chester Hill.
To assist in meeting the cost of this
expansion the company has already an-
nounced plans to raise £914,000 with
the premium share issue. In addition,
directors have negotiated a long-term
loan.
The 1965 accounts showed the com-
pany slightly less liquid than in the
previous year, but still in a very sound
position. Reflecting the increased bus-
iness, stock was up from £3,533,195 to
£3.928,057 and trade debtors from
£2,357,352 to £2.458,154. Bad debts
were less than 0.1 per cent of sales and
were written off during the year. Be-
cause of the increase in business, direct-
ors have increased the provision for
doubtful debts from £54.000 to
£75,000.
The increased stocks and debtors
were achieved with only a small rise
in bank overdraft, from £153,467 to
£463.462, while trade creditors were up
only from £1,133,955 to £1,154,673.
Mortgage loans were reduced from
£264,000 to £243,000, while the £1 mil-
lion 8 p.c. debenture stock does not
start to fall due for repayment until
1971.
The company’s reserve position is
strong, with capital reserves, £426,421
at April 30 last, almost sufficient for a
one-for-five bonus. Revenue reserves of
£2,204,292 were almost equal to the
paid-up capital. With no intangibles in
the books, the assets backing of each
10s. share On book figures was 21s. 6d.
at balance date.
The company’s shares are currently
selling around 31s. 6d. to show a divi-
dend yield of 4 p.c. but an earnings yield
of more than double this figure. Even
at this level future growth has not been
fully discounted.
1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 5995 5240 5558 5900 6394
Less current liabilities 2730 MOO 1681 2030 2544
Working capital 3265 3840 3877 3870 3850
Fixed assets 1622 1597 1613 2044 2298
Investments 25 22 19 19 19
4912 5459 5509 5933 6167
Represented by:
Orel, capital 1200 1560 1560 1685 2285
Capital reserves 239 239 243 421 427
Revenue reserves 1732 1766 1313 1955 2204
Loan funds 1549 1906 1885 1864 1243
Outside shareholders 8 8 8 8 8
Application money - 185
4912 5459 5509 5933 6167
Sales 13.5 m 11.7 m 13.1 m 15.7 m 18.9 m
Depreciation 74 83 81 97 121
Taxation 216 52 179 304 428
Net profit 316 102 283 398 510
Dividend 180 147 176 203 253
Surplus 136 -45 107 204 257
Earning rate 26.4 7.0 18.0 24.5 30.2
Dividend rate 15 10 11* 121 15
Dividend yield (a) 4.6 4.4 4.5 4.f 4.0
High price (b) 71/6 64/- 58/6 37/3 35/-
(c) (c)
Low price (b) 59/- 38/9 42/- 27/44 28/-
<c) (c)
(a) End of July, month accounts presented.
'(b) Calendar year.
(c) On 10/- par value.


Fix It Yourself
AUTO-MOTO
MAGIC OVRHAUL
WHILE-U-DRIVE
Engine Self-Reconditioner While • U • Drive,
REPLATES WORN upper cy!s., main bearings,
diffs., gears. SAVES rebore, ENDS piston slap,
rattles, oil, petrol waste. RESTORES new
compression, power, top speed, zipp. SAVES.
Adds £ s.d. to resale value. GUAR, up to
25,000 miles. HARMLESS finest engine.
SIMPLY add amazing expanding mineral Nu-
Metal (pat.) in oil, petrol or plug holes.
1,2, 4,6, 8 cyls. 15/6, 30/-, 60/-, 70/-,
80/-. Testimonials, engineers' reports, free
advice available. Open Sat. morn. Dis. req.
Sold only by RE-NU CO. (estab. 1932), 58
Swan St. (opp. Richmond Stn.), Vic. 42 1755.
I enclose £ for
or send free particulars describing action of
Nu-Metal.
NAME
ADDRESS "BUL."
TEACHER REQUIRED
for Newington College,
Stanmore.
ENGLISH
Qualified to teach throughout the school
including Matriculation standard.
(Qualifications in History and/or Social
Studies an advantage.)
Sound salary scale and superannuation
scheme.
For details write to the undersigned.
D. A. TRATHEN,
Headmaster.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: KEVIN EDWARD BAKER, late of 15
Wentworth Street, Glebe. TAKE NOTICE
that IRIS MERLE BAKER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2664 of 1965 on the ground
of desertion. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before 14th October,
1965. You may obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from McINTOSH, ADRIAN &
FELLOWS, Solicitors, of 27 Hunter Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: KATHLEEN MAY TURNBULL. TAKE
NOTICE that STANLEY GORDON TURNBULL
has filed a Petition No. 941 of 1964 for
Divorce, on the ground of desertion, notwith-
standing the facts and circumstances set out
in a Discretion Statement filed by him. If
you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 7th 'day of October, 1965, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. G M. STAFFORD AND CO.,
Solicitors, 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: THOMAS JOHN KILKELLY, late of
Willoughby Road, Willoughby. TAKE NOTICE
that BRENDA JANICE KILKELLY has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2479 of 1965 on
the ground of desertion, notwithstanding the
facts and circumstances set out in the Dis-
cretion Statement filed herein. If you wish
to defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the sixth day
of October, 1965, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
WALKER GIBBS &t DONALD, Solicitors, of
302 Pitt Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: ROSALIND ALONA MOLS. TAKE
NOTICE that JACOBUS MARIE MOLS has
filed a Petition No. 2204 of 1965 for Divorce,
on the ground of separation, notwithstanding
the facts and circumstances set out in a
Discretion Statement filed by him. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in
the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 7th day of October, 1965, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. G. M. STAFFORD AND CO.,
Solicitors, 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: NEIL EDWARD GABOROV, formerly of
Cloverdale, Western Australia. TAKE NOTICE
that DOROTHY ELLEN GABOROV has filed
a Petition No. 1876 of 1965 for Divorce on the
ground of cruelty. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry. Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 30th
day of September. 1965. You may obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. JOHN D. NORTON RICKARD &
SYMONDS, Solicitors, 67 Castlereagh Street,
the Sydney agents for LESLIE BRUCE
O’SULLIVAN, Solicitor, Newcastle C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: ILONA IRENE KRUPA. TAKE NOTICE
that WALTER JOHN KRUPA has filed a
Petition No. 2554 of 1965 for Divorce on the
ground of desertion. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 13th
day of October, 1965, and obtain a copy of
the Petition, without charge, from R. S.
HICKS, Solicitor, of 4 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. C. A. H, HARMS, Registrar.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 862
ACROSS
I—Your wife may be all smiles but defensive naval
work is an alternative. (4-8)
B—This and the like give credit to bone sabres. (10)
10—Who keeps mum to circle panelling? (4)
12—NSW country town threatens you with a tinny
future. (9)
14— Rocky mountain like this trunk. (5)
15 — Pieces from the main supply see you swells! (3-4)
16—A kind of football island
group to Australia’s north. (3)
18— Chaney puts half a century
on. (3)
19— Pay them with identification
with another’s feelings. (7)
21— Arabs are to be found in this
Persian Gulf city. (5)
22 A rooster on a warhorse. (9)
23 A sot wrecked a kiln for dry-
ing hops. (4)
25—Tin of Gaul with regard to
the Rimini girl. (10)
27—Women who edit Soviet stage
personalities. (12)
DOWN
1— Crow calls on mother parrots.
(6)
2 Ponies’ totals (anagram). (3-
10)
3 Ask in early Saturday to chew
over one North American
province. (12)
4 (3)
5 Pronoun. (3)
6 Joker upset a rock-splitting
wedge. (3)
7 Adjourn indefinitely in a
scoundrel’s favor. (8)
9—The sun, for instance, needs a
little celebrity in show busi-
ness. (5, 4)
11—Dry shingle on the former
Miss Kelly’s elegant affec-
tations. (4, 3,6)
13— A little music journal is
stationery. (9)
14— Yet the cases must contain
sandwich filling. (5, 6)
17—Sneakers? (8)
20—An airline’s fruit. (6)
24 Renegade upset the rating. (3)
25 Nourished with three notes.
(3)
26 How’s Chaikovsky? (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 861


BINDERS
for The Bulletin
For 15/- you ’can keep three months’ copies of The Bulletin
in a cloth-bound, gold-lettered binder, ready for easy refer-
ence. The binders are ideal for libraries, where The Bulletin
is m constant demand, and for business houses where freauent
reference is made to past financial features; ideal, too, as a
gift for a friend. ’ ’
bend 15/- (cheque or postal note, not cash, please) to “Bulletin
Binder, Box 5-o*,, G.P.0., Sydney, together with the coupon
and address label below. H
ORDER FORM
THE BULLETIN BINDER
Box 5252, G.P.0., Sydney
Please DISPATCH
BULLETIN BINDERS, price 15/- a copy (post free). I
enclose £ / / cheque/postal note.
Name of sender
Address ,
State
iS more than one binder is ordered, attach list giying full
name, address. State and, if overseas, country.
ADDRESS LABEL
THE BULLETIN BINDER
PRINTED MATTER ONLY
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
Name ,
Address
State
Sender .......
If undelivered, please return to Boy S'2,VJ, G.P.0., Sydney.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
More Drama than the Budget
Keeping track of VAM rumors
TTEAVY drinkers who are also addicted smokers would have considered the Budget
the most dramatic event of the week. With me, though, it was YAM. Rumor
ran amok in Melbourne, causing the share price to bolt up to 7s. The American
dancer Darvas had an investment system of boxes whereby, if the stock price moved
out of the nominated box one way or the other, it was a selling signal. My theory on
YAM was much more simple.
I just set a 50 p.c. appreciation target
and sold automatically when the share
price reached that level! So it was that
I sold VAM at 6s. 6d. and marked
up a £49 profit.
For my other purchase last week
(Aberfoyle) to behave equally as well,
the price would have to rise to 28s. I’ll
be a little less ambitious here, aiming to
settle for a price around the 235. mark.
Actually one of Aberfoyle’s own share-
holdings, Western Titanium, has done
very well over the last week, rising from
14s. to 16s. So perhaps I should have
picked this offspring instead.
Although for me VAM over-
shadowed the Budget, I was still in-
terested in Budget details. The capitalist
whose fancy does not run to smoking or
drinking or taking long drives in the
country appears to have come out best.
This same capitalist would be sitting
pretty if he’d gone into the market at
the beginning of July and bought such
shares as James Hardie at 100 s. and
Elder Smith at 20s.
It’s still not too late to share in the
market’s sudden revival. Just a case
of picking a few shares that have not
yet risen and which should announce
good results shortly!
Wibroc at 13s. 6d. was my first pur-
chase for the week. Like most of the
other companies in the automotive in-
dustry, Wibroc shares have had a dif-
ficult time making any headway this
year. In fact they’re well down from
the year’s high price of 17s. 6d. Now
that it’s official there will be no increase
in sales tax on cars, automotive shares
should come back into favor.
Fundamentally, Wibroc is in a strong
position. Despite ups and downs in the
motor industry, profits since 1960 have
gone steadily up, reaching a peak of
£45,000 last year. The earning rate of
31 p.c. for that year should, however,
be eclipsed by the rate for the year just
finished.
Tennyson Textiles’ shares are not
unlike Wibroc in that the present share
price is at the lower end of this year’s
range of sales. The general market
rather than the company’s current per-
formance must be blamed for a relatively
depressed price. In the interim report,
directors stated that there had been an
appreciable increase in sales volume and
in net profits earned, compared with
results for the corresponding period of
the preceding year. The 1963-64 year
had already been regarded as a very
good one, with profits almost double
those of the previous year. Some of this
new-found prosperity is probably due to
the closer association with Toyo Rayon
Co. Ltd, of Japan. Apart from Toyo
holding about 15 p.c. of the share capita],
they have placed one of their number,
Mr K. Fujise, on to the Tennyson board.
To conclude this re-entry into the in-
dustrial market, I also purchased 200
Hanimex at 17s. Although this stock
remained comparatively steady in the
market slump early this year, its present
price still seems cheap if the earning
rate for the year just past is around
45 p.c. Such a performance would put
it in the same class as Philip Morris.
Year after year these two stocks have
come to the fore with excellent results.
Yet the market continues to underrate
them.
This was to be a busy week as an-
other three transactions were notched up
by Friday. A good profit on the sudden
rise of A. G. Sims offset the losses on
King Island Scheelite and the Pioneer
Concrete. Wolfram prices refused to
do the right thing after Fd bought King
Island Scheelite. With Pioneer Concrete
I pondered too long.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
500 YAM, 6/6 £159
400 King Island Scheelite, 13/9 .... £269
400 A. G. Sims, 7/6 £147
BOUGHT
400 Wibroc, 13/6 £277
200 Hanimex, 17/- £174
400 Tennyson Textiles, 7/9 £154
400 Pioneer, 13/9 £2Bl
Up goes the debit to £352!
The week's dealings left me holding:
Cost Cur-
No. of Nome of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
200 Tableland Tin 18/3 65 -33/74 43/6
1000 Steamships
Trading, new 25/5/65 9/6 9/9
500 NAUC 28/6/65 7/- 8/-
2 Ford Debentures 5/7/65 £2OO £2OO
50 CSR 22 7/65 62/9 62/-
1000 NG Gold 27/7/65 '4/4 4/6
400 Kolotex 4/8/65 11/6 12/6
200 Aberfoyle 11/8/65 18/6 18/6
400 Wibroc 19/8/66 13/6 13/6
200 Hanimex 19/8/65 17/- 17/-
400 Tennyson 19/8/65 7/9 7/9


THAT'S WHAT
THE AUSTRALIAN
WOMEN’S WEEKLY
IS INTERESTED IN ..
THAT’S THE NEWS
IT BRINGS YOU
RECIPES FOR ALL OCCASIONS
AN INTERESTING LIFT-OUT
BOOK EVERV WEEK
GARDENING ADVICE
READERS’ OWN STORIES
EXPERIENCES FROM REAL LIFE
HOME DECORATING IDEAS
COLLECTORS’ CORNER
MARGARET SYDNEY’S
COLUMN—ALL ABOUT
FAMILY LIFE
PLANS FOR i
NEW HOMES
"Hit (wiMjZiowi
WOMENS WEEKLY


Vf&tA 1 .-*'& .'iT' f SH - *' > ■
....
'
; •jLsksfi'*
Wsr6g cSst^V.^'o-
urtmt'
immmmHmM
-||s|§|s||l
MHmHHI
. ■
■
■
m.
#
m
%' r: 'MJk, i
i. :
.
i <Vi
mgmr' m
§Wi
■m-
mm
X-
say
'Johnnie Walker'
and enjoy your Scotch more
The convenient square bottle, the easy-to-pull
cork, the familiar Red Label and the famous *
Johnnie Walker figure, are symbolic of the v
enduring quality of this world-renowned whisky.
It is the same miraculously smooth and
mellow Scotch it has been for generations.
BY APPOINTMENT TO
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD.
.
1
m
Lieaar
—--——-
*
wWsri
m
i
UP*
iP
vW
&
&
dSrZ
%
c,
M
V
SB
-''"•• •Of*# cf:
a
iP
■/> *si
BR
:, *l.
m i
&& sC'p ’’ ?> v ’ •> r''l - 7 o ■■h
■
i
;
)>
~ ° 196
BORN 1820 —STILL GOING STRONG
In miniatures, 5 oz., and 1 3 oz. flasks, 1 3 oz. and 26 oz. square bottles.
JW 2013. FPB
On
